 Case Number:  BC611486    Hearing Date:   October 17, 2024    Dept:  40 Superior
Court of California
County
of Los Angeles
Department 40
 



GABRILE RUEDA, also known as GABRIEL SALVADOR (an individual),
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
EMMANUEL D. PACQUIAO (an individual); FREDERICK ROACH, (an
  individual); KEITH M. DAVIDSON (an individual); CBS CORPORATION (a Delaware
  corporation); SHOWTIME NETWORKS, Inc. (a Delaware corporation); and DOES 1-25,
                        Defendants.
 


 Case No.:          BC611486
 Hearing Date:   October
  17, 2024
 Trial Date:        November
  18, 2024
 [TENTATIVE] RULING RE:
Defendants
  Showtime Networks Inc.’s and Paramount Global’s Motion for
  Summary Adjudication of Plaintiff’s Ninth Cause of Action [RES ID # 2788]



 
I. Background
A. Pleadings
Plaintiff Gabriel Rueda (Rueda)
sues Defendants Emmanuel Pacquiao (Pacquiao), Frederick (Freddie) Roach, Keith
M. Davidson, Paramount Global (f/k/a ViacomCBS, f/k/a CBS Corporation),
Showtime Networks, Inc. (Showtime), and Does 1-25 pursuant to a February 2,
2024, Third Amended Complaint (TAC). The TAC alleges claims of: (1) Breach of
Oral Contract against the Showtime Defendants and Freddie Roach; (2) Omitted
[Breach of Implied Contract; Dismissed by the Court]; (3) Common Counts for
Labor, Work, and Services against the Showtime Defendants and Freddie Roach;
(4) Quantum Meruit against the Showtime Defendants and Freddie Roach; (5) Fraud
in the Inducement against Freddie Roach; (6) Fraudulent Misrepresentation
against Freddie Roach; (7) Omitted [Unjust Enrichment; Dismissed by the Court];
(8) Omitted [Attempted Extortion; Dismissed by the Court]; and (9) Intentional
Infliction of Emotional Distress against the Showtime Defendants, Freddie
Roach, Defendant Pacquiao, and Defendant Davidson. 
The claims arise from allegations
that Rueda, pursuant to an unpaid finder’s fee, introduced Leslie Moonves, the
then-president of CBS Corporation and Showtime Networks, to Defendant Roach,
who was the trainer and confidant of boxer Pacquiao. Moonves allegedly used the
introduction to broker a bout between Pacquiao and boxer Floyd Mayweather
Jr.—dubbed the “Fight of the Century”—that earned Pacquiao, Mayweather, and
Showtime Networks more than $430 million. According to Rueda, he is entitled to
2% of the gross proceeds from the fight received by Roach, Pacquiao, and
Paramount and Showtime
B. Motion Before the Court
On August 1, 2024, Defendants Showtime
Networks Inc. and Paramount Global (the Showtime Defendants) filed the instant
motion for summary adjudication to the TAC’s ninth cause of action. 
On October 3, 2024, Rueda filed an
opposition to the motion. 
On October 11, 2024, the Showtime Defendants
filed a reply. 
 
II. Motion
A. Evidentiary Objections
In granting or denying a motion for
summary judgment or summary adjudication, the court need rule only on those
objections to evidence that it deems material to its disposition of the motion.
(Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (q).) 
Rueda Evidentiary Objections to Motion:
Not ruled on as not material to disposition of the motion. 
Showtime Defendant’s Evidentiary
Objections to Opposition:  
Objection No. 4, 5,
18: OVERRULED 
Remaining Objections: Not ruled on
as not material to disposition of the motion. 
B. Legal Standard
A motion for summary adjudication
(MSA) is nearly identical to a motion for summary judgment except that instead
of disposing of the entire case, a summary adjudication disposes of only select
causes of action, affirmative defenses, claims for damages, or issues of duty.
(See Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (f)(1).) All matters that are not resolved
by summary adjudication will be resolved at trial. (See Code Civ. Proc., §
437c, subd. (n)(1).)  
The moving party bears the initial
burden of production to make a prima facie showing that no triable issue of
material fact exists. (Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25
Cal.4th 826, 850.) To meet this burden, a defendant must show not only “that
the plaintiff does not possess needed evidence” but also that “the
plaintiff cannot reasonably obtain needed evidence.”¿(Aguilar, supra,
25 Cal.4th at p. 854.)¿It is insufficient for the defendant to merely point out
the absence of evidence.¿(Gaggero v. Yura (2003) 108 Cal.App.4th 884,
891.)¿The defendant “must also produce evidence that the plaintiff cannot
reasonably obtain evidence to support his or her claim.”¿(Ibid.)¿The
supporting evidence can be in the form of affidavits, declarations, admissions,
depositions, answers to interrogatories, and matters of which judicial notice
may be taken.¿(Aguilar, supra, 25 Cal.4th at p. 855.) 
“Once the defendant … has met that
burden, the burden shifts to the plaintiff … to show
that a triable issue of one or more material facts exists as to the cause of
action or a defense thereto.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (p)(2).) The
plaintiff may not merely rely on allegations or denials of its pleadings to
show that a triable issue of material fact exists, but instead, “shall set
forth the specific facts showing that a triable issue of material fact exists
as to the cause of action.”¿(Ibid.)¿“If the plaintiff cannot do so,
summary judgment should be granted.”¿(Avivi v. Centro Medico Urgente Medical
Center (2008) 159 Cal.App.4th 463, 467.)  
“On a summary judgment motion, the
court must therefore consider what inferences favoring the opposing party a
factfinder could reasonably draw from the evidence.¿While viewing the evidence
in this manner, the court must bear in mind that its primary function is to
identify issues rather than to determine issues.¿[Citation.]¿Only when the
inferences are indisputable may the court decide the issues as a matter of
law.¿ If the evidence is in conflict, the factual issues must be resolved by
trial.”¿(Binder v. Aetna Life Ins. Co. (1999) 75 Cal.App.4th 832,
839.)¿Further, “the trial court may not weigh the evidence in the manner of a
factfinder to determine whose version is more likely true.¿[Citation.]¿Nor may
the trial court grant summary judgment based on the court’s evaluation of
credibility. [Citation.]” (Id. at p. 840; see also Weiss v. People ex
rel. Department of Transportation (2020) 9 Cal.5th 840, 864 [“Courts
deciding motions for summary judgment or summary adjudication may not weigh the
evidence but must instead view it in the light most favorable to the opposing
party and draw all reasonable inferences in favor of that party”].) 
C. Analysis
“A cause of action for intentional
infliction of emotional distress [IIED] exists when there is ‘(1) extreme and
outrageous conduct by the defendant with the intention of causing, or reckless
disregard of the probability of causing, emotional distress; (2) the
plaintiff’s suffering severe or extreme emotional distress; and (3) actual and
proximate causation of the emotional distress by the defendant’s outrageous
conduct.’ A defendant’s conduct is ‘outrageous’ when it is so ‘extreme as to
exceed all bounds of that usually tolerated in a civilized community.’ And the
defendant’s conduct must be ‘intended to inflict injury or engaged in with the
realization that injury will result.’” (Hughes v. Pair (2009) 46 Cal.4th
1035, 1050-1051].) 
The Showtime Defendants argue that the
IIED claim fails because (1) the claim is barred by the statute of limitations
and (2) they are not vicariously liable for the allegedly tortious conduct. 
1.    
Statute of Limitations
A plaintiff must institute a cause
of action for IIED within two years of when he suffers severe emotional
distress. (Code Civ. Proc. § 335.1) 
The Showtime Defendants contend
that Rueda’s claim for IIED is time-barred because his claim accrued between
July 2015 and February 2016, and Rueda did not add the Showtime Defendants to
the tort claims until September 2019. (Mot. p. 12.) The Showtime Defendants
contend that the Code of Civil Procedure section 474 “relation-back” procedure is
inapplicable because Rueda claimed to have known of Moonves’s alleged
involvement when he filed his original complaint. (SUF 69-74, 135-136.) The
Showtime Defendants further argue that even if Rueda did not know all the facts
leading to the IIED claim when he originally filed the complaint, he unreasonably
delayed adding the Showtime Defendants, which has prejudiced them because relevant
evidence was not preserved. 
In opposition, Rueda asserts that
he was unaware of Moonves’s alleged involvement in the tortious conduct until
David Boykoff’s deposition in August 2019, during which Boykoff produced an
invoice bearing Moonves’s name and testified that Davidson had informed him
that Davidson’s client was Les Moonves. (AMF 40-41, 77.) Rueda claims that
prior to that evidence, he believed Moonves’s reassurances that he was not
involved with Davidson or the tortious conduct. (AMF 21, 24, 40.) 
Here, there is a triable issue of
material fact regarding whether Boykoff’s testimony and the invoice bearing
Moonves’s name constitute new facts of Moonves’s involvement. The facts are
undisputed that in 2015 and 2016, Rueda was aware of various communications and
associations among Moonves, Khan, Davidson, Roach and other parties involved in
the alleged tortious conduct webwork. (SUF 69-74, 85, 136.) It is also
undisputed that in 2015 Moonves told Rueda that he did not know Davidson (SUF
85, AMF 21-22) and that Rueda emailed Moonves that he did not believe Davidson was
representing Moonves (AMF 21-22). Rueda asserts that it was not until 2019 when
Boykoff testified to a specific connection between Moonves and Davidson, that
Rueda first knew of facts signifying that Moonves was involved in the specific
chain leading to the threats or harassment. (AMF 40-41, 77.) There is ample
assertion and conflicting testimony about various parties communicating with
various other parties about various matters at various times. The Court’s
function is not to determine issues of fact, “factual issues must be resolved
by trial.” (Binder, supra, 75 Cal.App.4th at 839.) Thus, considering the
evidence in the light most favorable to Rueda, as the Court must, a reasonable
factfinder could infer that Moonves concealed his involvement from Rueda and
that Rueda did not have reason to know otherwise until 2019. 
            Accordingly,
Rueda has met his burden to show that a triable issue of one or more material
facts exists as to whether the IIED claim against the Showtime Defendants is
barred by the statute of limitations. 
2.    
Vicarious Liability for IIED 
a.     
Conspiracy 
“[T]he basis of a civil conspiracy
is the formation of a group of two or more persons who have agreed to a common
plan or design to commit a tortious act. The conspiring defendants must also
have actual knowledge that a tort is planned and concur in the tortious scheme
with knowledge of its unlawful purpose.” (Kidron v. Movie Acquisition Corp.
(1995) 40 Cal.App.4th 1571, 1582) (cleaned up). “Knowledge of the planned tort
must be combined with intent to aid in its commission.” (Ibid.) 
However, such knowledge and intent
“may be inferred from the nature of the acts done, the relation of the parties,
the interests of the alleged conspirators, and other circumstances.” (Wyatt
v. Union Mortgage Co. (1979) 24 Cal.3d 773, 785).)
The Showtime Defendants assert that
Moonves was not aware of a plan to harass or harm Rueda and that he did not
communicate with anyone about or agree to such conduct. (Mot. p. 16:6:9)
In opposition, Rueda argues that a
conspiracy can be inferred from the Showtime Defendants’ engagement of Khan,
Davidson and others, the contemporaneous emails exchanged between them, and the
events that immediately followed those communications. (Mot. p. 22:1-6)
Here, there is a triable issue of
material fact as to whether the Showtime Defendants are vicariously liable
under a conspiracy theory for Rueda’s IIED claim. The Showtime Defendants argue
that there is no evidence that Moonves knew Khan was going to hire Davidson, or
that Davidson was asked to represent the Showtime Defendants, or that Khan or
Davidson communicated with each other or non-parties about harassing Rueda. (Reply.
p. 8:11-14; see also SUF 25, 65-66, 111-116, 127, 131) However, Rueda argues
that there is enough circumstantial evidence for a jury to infer a conspiracy
relationship. On June 18, 2015, Moonves and Khan discussed Rueda’s request for
a finder’s fee and hiring counsel in the matter. (AMF 5-6, 9-11). At one point,
Moonves and Khan arranged to speak by phone about the matter, rather than in
writing. (AMF 12.) On June 19, 2015, Khan discussed Rueda’s request with
Davidson and asked Davidson to meet with Rueda. (AMF 60.)  Shortly after Davidson’s meeting with Rueda,
Rueda asserts that he began to be harassed and threatened. (AMF 95.) The
throughline connecting the parties and the timing of the events is sufficient
circumstantial evidence that a finder of fact could infer a conspiratorial
relationship.   
Accordingly, Rueda has met his
burden to show that a triable issue of one or more material facts exists as to
a finding that the Showtime Defendants could be held vicariously liable for the
IIED claim under a conspiracy theory. 
b.    
Agency 
As the Court has found that the
Rueda has met his burden to show that triable issues of material fact exist for
vicarious liability for IIED under a conspiracy theory, the Court need not
address the theory for vicarious liability under an agency theory.
III. Conclusion
Defendants Showtime Networks Inc.’s and Paramount Global’s Motion for
Summary Adjudication of Plaintiff’s Ninth Cause of Action is DENIED.