..................... ..................... ..................... ......
The summary displayed below was created by an LLM named 'llama3-8b-8192':
Here is the summary of the tentative ruling in YAML format:

```
Case:
  Number: 24BBCV00185
  Hearing Date: March 8, 2024
  Dept: NCB Superior Court of California
  County: Los Angeles
  District: North Central District
  Department: B

Parties:
  Plaintiff: Lesly Quintana Santos
  Defendant: Alba Regina Melgar

People:
  Malek H. Shraibati: Plaintiff's counsel

Companies:
  BD&J: Plaintiff's counsel's firm

Places:
  Los Angeles: County
  North Central District: District

Dates:
  February 9, 2024: Counsel filed the motion to be relieved as counsel
  March 8, 2024: Hearing date
  June 24, 2024: Case Management Conference

Events:
  Motion to be relieved as counsel: Filed by Plaintiff's counsel
  Irreconcilable differences: Breakdown in attorney-client relationship

Money:
  None mentioned

Intentions:
  Plaintiff's counsel seeks to withdraw from representing Plaintiff
  Plaintiff to obtain substitute counsel

Facts:
  Significant breakdown in attorney-client relationship
  Counsel unable to confirm Plaintiff's address
  Counsel served Plaintiff at last known mailing address

Disputes:
  None mentioned

Acts:
  Counsel filed the requisite forms pursuant to CRC Rule 3.1362
  Counsel served Plaintiff at last known mailing address

Agreements:
  Plaintiff's counsel to withdraw from representing Plaintiff
  Plaintiff to obtain substitute counsel

Laws:
  CRC Rule 3.1362

Case Citations:
  None mentioned

Statutes:
  None mentioned

Roles:
  Judge: Made the tentative ruling
  Plaintiff's counsel: Moved to be relieved as counsel
  Plaintiff: Involved in the dispute

Significant Statements:
  "Counsel states that they have been unable to confirm the address, but made efforts by mailing the motion papers to Plaintiff's last known address, return receipt requested, and by calling Plaintiff's last known telephone number(s)."
  "The motion to be relieved as counsel is granted."
  "The order will become effective upon the filing of a proof of service of a signed copy of the order on Plaintiff."
```

And here is the English-text summary of the judge's tentative ruling:

The judge has granted the motion of Plaintiff's counsel, Malek H. Shraibati, Esq. and BD&J, to be relieved as counsel for Plaintiff Lesly Quintana Santos. Counsel filed the motion on February 9, 2024, citing a significant breakdown in the attorney-client relationship, which has resulted in irreconcilable differences making it impossible to continue representing the Plaintiff. Counsel has served the Plaintiff at their last known mailing address, but has been unable to confirm the address. The judge has noted that there is sufficient time for the Plaintiff to obtain substitute counsel before the next Case Management Conference on June 24, 2024. The order will be signed at the hearing on March 8, 2024, and will become effective upon the filing of a proof of service of a signed copy of the order on the Plaintiff.
