 Case Number:  23BBCV00456    Hearing Date:   March 8, 2024    Dept:  NCB  
Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
North
Central District
Department B
 



 
max barchichat,
 
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
 
smart &
  final stores llc, et al.,
 
                        Defendants.


 
Case
  No.:  23BBCV00456
 
Hearing
  Date:  March 8, 2024
 
 [TENTATIVE]
  order RE:
Demurrer; motion to strike
 



 
BACKGROUND

A.    Allegations

Plaintiffs the
Estate of Max Barchichat, by and through Monqioue Golog, executor of the
Estate; and Successors-in-Interest Monique Golob, Emile Barchichat, Linda
Maher, and Deborah Cannon (hereinafter, “Plaintiffs”) allege that Defendants
Smart & Final Stores LLC, Smart & Final LLC, Smart & Final East
Hollywood LLC, Realty Income Properties 14 LLC, and Realty Income Corporation
(“Defendants”) were the owners, operators, lessors, lessees, landlords,
managers, supervisors, inspectors, custodians, and repairers of the real
property, including the paved parking lot, located at 6601 Laurel Canyon
Boulevard in North Hollywood.  Plaintiffs
allege that on March 13, 2021, the concrete stop block for one of the parking
spaces at the premises created a tripping hazard, which caused Decedent Max
Barchichat (“Decedent”) to trip and fall and suffer injuries.  
The First
Amended Complaint (“FAC”), filed October 27, 2023, alleges causes of action
for: (1) wrongful death (premises liability); (2) wrongful death (general
negligence); (3) wrongful death (products liability/strict liability); (4)
wrongful death (products liability/breach of warranty); (5) survival action;
(6) breach of contract; (7) NIED; and (8) IIED.[1]
On January 24,
2024, Plaintiff filed an amendment to the complaint naming Chedraui USA, Inc.
as Doe 1.  
B.     Cross-Complaint
On January 29,
2024, Realty Income Properties 14, LLC and Realty Income Corporation filed a
cross-complaint against Smart & Final Stores LLC and Smart & Final LLC for:
(1) equitable indemnity; (2) express contractual indemnity; (3) equitable
contribution; (4) breach of contract; and (5) declaratory relief. 
C.     Motions
on Calendar 
On February 8,
2024, Defendant Smart & Final Stores LLC filed a demurrer and motion to
strike portions of the FAC.  
On February 22,
2024, Plaintiffs the Estate of Max Barchichat, by and through Monqioue Golog,
executor of the Estate; and Successors-in-Interest Monique Golob, Emile
Barchichat, Linda Maher, and Deborah Cannon (hereinafter, “Plaintiffs”) filed
opposition briefs.  
On March 1,
2024, Defendant filed reply briefs.
DISCUSSION RE DEMURRER
            Defendant
Smart & Final Stores LLC (hereinafter “Defendant”) demurs to the 3rd,
4th, 7th, and 8th causes of action.  
A.    3rd
cause of action for wrongful death (products liability/strict liability) 
“A manufacturer, distributor, or
retailer is liable in tort if a defect in the manufacture or design of its
product causes injury while the product is being used in a reasonably
foreseeable way.”  (Soule v. General Motors Corp. (1994) 8 Cal.4th 548,
560.) “Beyond manufacturers, anyone identifiable as ‘an integral part of the
overall producing and marketing enterprise’ is subject to strict liability. … Accordingly, retailers
engaged in the business of distributing goods to the public are strictly liable
in tort for personal injuries caused by defects in those goods.”  (Arriaga v. CitiCapital
Commercial Corp. (2008) 167 Cal.App.4th 1527, 1534.)  The product need not be unreasonably dangerous—just
defective.  (Romine v. Johnson Controls, Inc. (2014) 224 Cal.App.4th 990,
1000.)  Products liability may be
premised upon a theory of design, defect, manufacturing defect, or failure to
warn.  (Id.)  
In the 3rd cause of action,
Plaintiffs allege that Defendants are strictly liable in tort for their
injuries and damages because the subject concrete block, which caused
Decedent’s injuries and subsequent death, contained manufacturing defects,
design defects, positional defects, and warning defects such that it
constituted a defective product or component on real property, which was owned,
managed, maintained, and serviced by Defendants.  (FAC, ¶52.)  Plaintiffs allege that Defendants placed the
subject concrete block into the stream of commerce.  (Id.) 
Plaintiffs allege that Decedent was a foreseeable user, invitee, guest,
and consumer at the premises containing the concrete block and that Decedent
suffered injuries as a result of the concrete block’s defects.  (Id., ¶¶53-54.)  
Defendant argues
that it was not integral in the overall production and marketing enterprise of
the concrete block.  However, this
argument is based on an extrinsic fact that is not pled in the FAC.  Although Defendant might not be the
manufacturer or retailer of concrete blocks in its parking lots and does not
put these types of concrete blocks into the stream of commerce, the Court takes
the truth of the allegations at the pleading stage.  Defendant may present evidence at the summary
judgment stage or at the trial stage showing that they are not a manufacturer,
distributor, or retailer of concrete blocks. 
Nevertheless, in
opposition, Plaintiffs admit that Defendant is not the manufacturer,
distributor or retailer of the concrete blocks, but then argue that Defendant
should be liable under a licensor theory. 
(Opp. at p.6.)  “Licensors of
personal property, like the manufacturers or retailers or lessors thereof, ‘are
an integral part of the overall ... marketing enterprise that should bear the
cost of injuries resulting from defective products.’ [Citations.] [¶] Although
respondent is not engaged in the distribution of the product, in the same
manner as a manufacturer, retailer or lessor, he does provide the product to
the public for use by the public, and consequently does play more than a random
and accidental role in the overall marketing enterprise of the product in
question.”  (Garcia v. Halsett (1970) 3 Cal.App.3d 319, 325–326
[involving washing machines at a launderette].) 
Defendant argues that Plaintiffs’ arguments would essentially make any
trip/slip-and-fall in a parking lot a strict products liability case.  Based on the allegations of the FAC,
Plaintiffs have not alleged any facts showing that Defendant was a licensor of
the concrete block (as opposed to the Garcia case where the defendant
impliedly gave permission/license to the plaintiff to use a washing machine at
the premises).  
The demurrer to
the 1st cause of action is sustained. The Court will hear argument
regarding whether there are facts upon which the complaint could be amended to state
a strict products liability claim. 
B.     4th
cause of action for wrongful death (products liability/breach of warranty)
Defendant demurs
to the 4th cause of action on the same grounds as the 3rd
cause of action.  In the opposition
brief, Plaintiffs conceded the 4th cause of action.  (Notice of Opp. at p.2.)  The demurrer to the 4th cause of
action is sustained without leave to amend. 
C.     7th
cause of action for NIED
An NIED claim is
not an independent tort, but the tort of negligence.  (McMahon
v. Craig (2009) 176 Cal.App.4th 1502, 1509.)  A cause of action for NIED may be brought
under two general instances: (1) where Plaintiff is a bystander and seeks to
recover damages as percipient witness to the injury of another; or (2) where
Plaintiff is a direct victim in that the emotional distress damages result from
a duty owed the plaintiff that is assumed by defendant or imposed on the
defendant as a matter of law, or that arises out of the relationship between
the two.  (Id. at 1509-10.)  “A
defendant may be liable in tort for negligently inflicting emotional distress
on persons to whom the defendant owes a duty of care.  That duty can have three alternative origins:
(1) a duty imposed on the defendant by law, (2) a duty assumed by the defendant,
or (3) a duty arising out of a preexisting relationship between plaintiff and
defendant.”  (Benson v. Superior Court (2010) 185 Cal.App.4th 1179, 1187.)  
In the 7th
cause of action for NIED, Plaintiffs allege that a special relationship and
duty was created between Defendant and Plaintiffs, which included the duty to
follow industry guidelines for handling and resolving injury claims and
following Insurance Code, § 790.03. 
(FAC, ¶80.)  Plaintiffs allege
that Defendant breached its duty of care to Plaintiffs, which caused Plaintiffs
to suffer emotional distress.  (Id.,
¶81.)  They allege that they are direct
victims of NIED caused by Defendant’s misconduct.  (Id., ¶82.)  
            Defendant
demurs to the 7th cause of action, arguing that Plaintiffs have not
alleged a basis under which NIED may be alleged against them.  
            In
the FAC, Plaintiffs allege that they are direct victims.  However, Plaintiffs have not alleged a viable
duty against Defendant that is imposed by law or arises out of their
relationship.  At most, Plaintiffs rely
on Insurance Code, § 790.03, which is regarding unfair methods of competition
and unfair and deceptive acts or practices in the business of insurance.  However, Plaintiffs have not alleged any
facts that they had a preexisting relationship with Defendant or its insurance
agents, or that Defendant was an entity that owed insurance obligations to
Plaintiffs.   
            In
opposition, Plaintiffs argue that there is a special relationship and duty akin
to the one alleged in Potter v. Firestone Tire & Rubber Co. (1993) 6 Cal.4th 965.  In Potter,
residents living near a landfill, where dumping of toxic substances was
prohibited, sued a tire manufacturing company that dumped toxic waste at the
site; the plaintiffs sued, among other things, for NIED as a result of their
fear of cancer and emotional distress.  The
Potter court stated: “unless the defendant has assumed a duty to
plaintiff in which the emotional condition of the plaintiff is an object,
recovery is available only if the emotional distress arises out of the
defendant's breach of some other legal duty and the emotional distress is
proximately caused by that breach of duty. Even then, with rare exceptions, a
breach of the duty must threaten physical injury, not simply damage to property
or financial interests.”  (Potter v. Firestone Tire & Rubber Co. (1993) 6
Cal.4th 965, 985.)  The Court stated: “Firestone
did violate a duty imposed on it by law and regulation to dispose of toxic
waste only in a class I landfill and to avoid contamination of underground
water.[] The violation led directly to plaintiffs' ingestion of various known
and suspected carcinogens, and thus to their fear of suffering the very harm
which the Legislature sought by statute to avoid.
Their fear of cancer was proximately caused by Firestone's unlawful conduct
which threatened serious physical injury.” 
(Id.)  However, Plaintiffs
have not alleged facts akin to Potter. 
They have not shown any connection between a violation of the Insurance
Code by Defendant that amounts to the type of duty that existed in Potter.  
            The
demurrer to the 7th cause of action is sustained.  Based on Plaintiff’s opposition arguments, it
does not appear that this cause of action can be amended by further facts to
allege a viable claim of NIED against Defendant by Plaintiffs.  Therefore, the demurrer to the 7th
cause of action is sustained without leave to amend.  
D.    8th
cause of action for IIED 
The elements of
intentional infliction of emotional distress are: (1) outrageous conduct by the
defendant; (2) the defendant’s intention of causing or reckless disregard of
the probability of causing emotional distress; (3) the plaintiff suffered
severe or extreme emotional distress; and (4) the plaintiff’s injuries were
actually and proximately caused by the defendant’s outrageous conduct.  (Vasquez
v. Franklin Mgmt. Real Estate Fund, Inc. (2013) 222 Cal.App.4th 819,
832.)  In order to avoid a demurrer, the
plaintiff must allege with great specificity the acts which she believes are so
extreme as to exceed all bounds of behavior usually tolerated in a civilized
community.  (Id.)  Conduct to be
outrageous must be so extreme as to exceed all bounds of behavior usually
tolerated in a civilized community.  (Christensen v. Superior Court (1991) 54 Cal.3d 868, 903.)  In addition, the
outrageous conduct must be of a nature which is especially calculated to cause,
and does cause, mental distress of a very serious kind.  (Id.)  “
In the 8th
cause of action for IIED, Plaintiffs allege that Defendant, through their
involvement and conduct in Decedent’s injury claim, created a special
relationship and a duty of care between Defendant and Plaintiff, including
Sedgwick’s duty to follow industry standard guidelines for handling and
resolving injury claims and a duty to follow Insurance Code, § 790.03.  (FAC, ¶87.) 
Plaintiffs allege that they have suffered severe emotional distress due
to Defendant’s misconduct.  (Id.,
¶88.)  Plaintiffs allege that Defendant’s
conduct included its awareness of the passage of CCP §§ 377.10, 377.11, and
377.34; its awareness that Decedent’s death had no bearing on the valuation
which Defendant had previously placed on the claim and led them to enter into
an oral contract to settle their claims; Defendant instructed Sedgwick to
leverage Decedent’s death to their advantage by reneging on the oral contract
to settle the claim; and Defendant knew or should have known that the oral
contract to settle was with and for the Plaintiffs who were grieving the loss
of Decedent.  (Id., ¶89.)  Plaintiffs allege that they suffered severe
emotional distress.  (Id.,
¶¶90-94.)  
As currently
alleged, Plaintiffs have not alleged sufficient facts showing that Defendant’s
conduct was intentional or that it amounted to extreme and outrageous conduct.  Based on the FAC’s allegations, it appears
that there may have been a disagreement between the parties about the terms of
the settlement based on Decedent’s death, which may be a legal matter that
shifted the parties’ strategies, but the allegations do not show that Defendant
(or Sedgwick) acted intentionally to engage in outrageous conduct in order to
cause Plaintiffs severe emotional distress. 

The demurrer to
the 8th cause of action is sustained.  The Court will hear oral argument as to
whether the demurrer to the 8th cause of action should be sustained
without leave to amend.   
DISCUSSION RE
MOTION TO STRIKE
            Defendant
moves to strike paragraph D in the prayer for relief, which seeks punitive
damages against it.  
            The
FAC alleges punitive damages against Defendant in connection with the 8th
cause of action only.  (See FAC, ¶97.) 
            In
light of the ruling on the demurrer, the motion to strike is taken off-calendar
as moot. 
CONCLUSION AND
ORDER
Defendant Smart
& Final Stores LLC’s demurrers to the 3rd and 8th causes
of action in the first amended complaint are sustained. The Court will hear
oral argument as to whether leave to amend should be granted as to the 7th
and 8th causes of action.  The
demurrers to the 4th and 7th causes of action are sustained
without leave to amend.  
Defendant’s
motion to strike portions of the first amended complaint is taken off-calendar
as moot. 
Defendant shall give notice of
this order.  
 
DATED: March 8, 2024                                                         ___________________________
                                                                                          John
Kralik
                                                                                          Judge
of the Superior Court


