  Case Number:  19STCV25208    Hearing Date:   April 8, 2024    Dept:  17 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
 
DEPARTMENT
17
 
DEFAULT JUDGMENT REVIEW 
 



JASON T. YU
 
        
  vs.
 
KRISTOPHER RENE
  GOMEZ, et al.
 


 Case
  No.:  19STCV25208 
 
 
 
 Hearing Date March 4, 2024



 
 
            The
Court has identified the following deficiencies with Plaintiff’s default
judgment packet: 
 
-        
Plaintiff must file an updated proposed
judgment.
 
-        
Plaintiff did not adequately address
the following issues previously raised. For example: 
 
 
o  
Plaintiff must set forth a legal basis
to recover from Mendiola individually for breach of contract (separate and
apart from fraud) and explain how the damages award for breach of contract is
not duplicative or overlapping with the damages awarded via the settlement
agreement. Plaintiff alleges that Defendant is liable as the agent of
Defendants. While agents can be personally liable fort torts, the same analysis
does not apply to agents’ liability for breaches of contract. Here, Plaintiff’s
statement of the case does not state that Mendiola is the alter-ego of
Defendants, and Mendiola does not appear to have signed the agreement in his
personal capacity. Moreover, Plaintiff has reached a settlement with the
Defendants who signed the agreement, and thus Plaintiff presumably is
recovering damages incurred for the alleged breach. Plaintiff must clarify
these issues. 
 
o  
Plaintiff’s application now removes
a damages section which he had previously been instructed to include, and which
set forth a breakdown of the estimated damages. Plaintiff does not address any
of the issues previously raised by this Court—namely, how these damages amounts
were calculated. Plaintiff claims approximately $10,000 in loss rents and
evictions of two tenants, without any citation to evidence or even a specific
declaration statement. Plaintiff claims there was a total income loss of
$109,080 but Plaintiff does not provide any support for this otherwise precise
calculation. Plaintiff claims the estimated cost as of April 2021 for
permitting the property is $125,000, but does not submit the April 2021
estimate to show this. Even Plaintiff’s own declaration does not set forth these
amounts, or corroborate these claims, but rather just reiterates that he seeks
damages in the amount of $250,000 as an alleged in the Complaint.  Claims of damages set forth in an application
unsupported by declaration or extrinsic evidence are without foundation.   
 
Plaintiff to refile entire default
judgment packet within 30 days.