 Case Number:  23VECV05137    Hearing Date:   July 17, 2024    Dept:  W ALLAN MARTIA,
et al. vs S.B.S. TRUST DEED NETWORK (SBS), et al.
 
demurrer to
the cross-complaint of bryan russolesi and motion to strike 
 
Date of Hearing:        July
17, 2024                                      Trial
Date:       None
Set
Department:              W                                                        Case
No.:        23VECV05137
 
BACKGROUND
 
On November 16, 2023, Plaintiff Allan
Martia and Knolton, Inc. filed a complaint against Defendants S.B.S. Trust Deed
Network (SBS), Bryan Russolesi, Daymon Harris, Barbara Chiling, and Timothy
Glasserand for (1) Violation of CC 2924.11 (d); (2) Breach of Contract; (3)
Unfair Business Practices in Violation of Business and Professions Code §§ 17200
et seq.; (4) Tortuous Interference with Prospective Economic Advantage; (5)
Interference with Contract; (6) Quiet Title. (7) Declaratory Relief; (8)
Temporary and Permanent Injunction; (9) Fraud; (10) Wrongful foreclosure
(threatening to wrongfully foreclose); and (11) Cancellation of Instrument. 
 
On January 22, 2024, Bryan Russolesi
filed aCross-Complaint against Allan Martia, Knolton, Inc., and Reel West, Inc.
for (1) Fraud; (2) Judicial Foreclosure; (3) Breach of Contract; and (4)
Declaratory Relief. 
 
[Tentative] Ruling
 
I.                   
Defendant
Knolton, Inc.’s Demurrer to Cross-Complaint of Bryan Russolesi and Motion to
Strike is OVERRULED 
II.                 
Cross-Defendant
Reel West, Inc.’s Demurrer to the Cross-Complaint of Bryan Russolesi is
OVERRULED. 
 
ANALYSIS
 
I.                   
DEFENDANT
KNOLTON, INC.’S DEMURRER TO CROSS-COMPLAINT OF BRYAN RUSSOLESI AND MOTION TO
STRIKE 
 
Defendant
Knolton, Inc. demurs to the cross-complaint of Bryan Russolesi on the grounds
Russolesi’s complaint fails to state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of
action for fraud against Knolton, Inc. Defendant also moves to strike the
cross-complaint on the grounds it was filed without leave of court.[1]
 
Fraud
 
Defendant
Knolton, Inc. demurs to the fraud cause of action on the grounds Cross-Complainant
has failed to allege specific facts as to the elements of fraud. 
 
The elements
of fraud are: “(a) misrepresentation (false representation, concealment, or
nondisclosure); (b) knowledge of falsity (or ‘scienter’); (c) intent to
defraud, i.e., to induce reliance; (d) justifiable reliance; and (e) resulting
damage.” (Charnay v. Cobert (2006) 145 Cal.App.4th 170, 184.) In
California, fraud, including negligent misrepresentation, must be pled with
specificity. (Small v. Fritz Companies, Inc. (2003) 30 Cal.4th 167,
184.) “The particularity demands that a plaintiff plead facts which show how,
when, where, to whom, and by what means the representations were tendered.” (Cansino
v. Bank of America (2014) 224 Cal.App.4th 1462, 1469.)  
 
Knolton, Inc.
argues the fraud cause of action is a mashup of general conclusory allegations
with no reference to any representation. For example, Paragraph 12 alleges
“Martia on behalf of himself and other cross defendants misrepresented that he
intends to comply with his obligation under the amended note and deed of trust
that Martia executed …, and Cross – Complainant contends that Martia had
breached the terms the terms of the note.” There are no allegations that
Knolton had anything to do with the alleged misrepresentation by Martia.
Similarly, Martia “conspired with other persons unknown at this time …, of
their intent not to pay the principal sum and other payment required by the
note and amendment.” (XC ¶13.) Knolton contends there is no allegation it was a
party to or responsible for the Secured Note nor are there allegations all the
Cross-Defendants are deemed agents of each other or conspirators is not
specific enough. 
 
The court
finds the fraud cause of action in  the cross-complaint
is sufficiently alleged for the purposes of a demurrer. Russolesi alleges on
April 2021, Martia, on behalf of himself and the Cross-Defendants, including
Knolton, misrepresented to Russolesi that Martia would repay the principal sum
that he borrowed from Russolesi and the other lenders that are named in the
Secured Promissory Note dated April 22, 2021. (XC ¶6.) Russolesi also alleges
in May 2023, Martia, again on behalf of Cross-Defendants, misrepresented that
he intended to comply with his obligations under the Amendment to Secured Promissory
Note dated April 1, 2023 (XC ¶12.) The complaint alleges Martia and all the
Cross-Defendants, including Knolton, were agents of one another. (XC ¶5.) The
complaint goes on to allege the Note, 2021 Deed of Trust, Amendment, and the
misrepresentations of Martia regarding them were used and intended by
Cross-Defendants to fraudulently induce Russolesi and the Beneficiaries into
agreeing to loan Martia the Principal Sum, and to agree to the Note, 2021 Deed
of Trust, and Amendment, and cause them to delay enforcing their remedies
thereunder. (XC ¶13.) Russolesi claims these Cross-Defendants conspired among
themselves to deceive and conceal the true facts regarding their intention not
to pay. (XC ¶13.) This sufficiently alleges Knolton along with Martia and the
other Cross-Defendants were agents and/or co-conspirators of one another for
the purposes of a demurrer. 
 
Accordingly,
the demurrer to the fraud cause of action is OVERRULED. 
 
Motion to
Strike  
 
Knolton
argues the cross-complaint should be stricken in its entirety because he filed
his answer on December 29, 2023 and his Cross-Complaint on January 22, 2023. However,
the court agrees with Plaintiff that Code of Civil Procedure section 428.10 is
applicable as to Knolton and therefore, Russolesi did not need to file his
cross-complaint against Knolton at the same time he filed his answer to
Martia’s complaint. If Martia wanted to strike the cross-complaint, then they
could. 
 
i.                   
CROSS-DEFENDANT
REEL WEST, INC.’S DEMURRER TO THE CROSS-COMPLAINT OF BRYAN RUSSOLESI 
 
Cross-Defendant
Reel West, Inc. demurs to the cross-complaint of Cross-Complainant Bryan
Russolesi on the grounds Russolesi failed to allege facts sufficient to support
a claim of fraud. 
 
For the
reasons stated above, the court finds Russolesi’s fraud allegations sufficient
for the purposes of a demurrer. 


