 Case Number:  24VECV00215    Hearing Date:   July 17, 2024    Dept:  W WALTER
BANEGGAS vs JAGUAR LAND ROVER NORTH AMERICA, LLC, et al.
 
PLAINTIFF’S MOTION TO COMPEL FURTHER
RESPONSES TO PLAINTIFFS’ FIRST SET OF SPECIAL INTERROGATORIES AND REQUEST FOR
SANCTIONS
 
Date
of Hearing:        July
17, 2024                                                  Trial Date:       None
set. 
Department:              W                                                                     Case
No.:        24VECV00215
 
Moving
Party:            Plaintiff Walter
Baneggas 
Responding
Party:     Defendant Jaguar Land Rover
North America, LLC   
Meet
and Confer:      Yes. (Thomas decl.
¶¶7-11.) 
 
BACKGROUND
 
This is a lemon law action. On January 17, 2023, Plaintiff Walter
Baneggas filed a complaint against Jaguar Land Rover North America, LLC, Galpin
Jaguar Lincoln-Mercury, Inc. dba Jaguar Van Nuys/Land Rover Van Nuys for
Violation of Song-Beverly Act – Breach of Express Warranty. Plaintiff purchased
a 2018 Lan Rover Range Rover Velar. Plaintiff alleges they delivered the
vehicle to an authorized repair facility for nonconformities, but Defendants
were unable to conform the subject vehicle to the applicable express warranty
after a reasonable number of repair attempts. 
 
[Tentative] Ruling
 
Plaintiff’s Motion to Compel Further
Responses to Plaintiffs’ First Set of Special Interrogatories and Request for Sanctions
is GRANTED, in part. 
 
discussion
 
Plaintiff Baneggas
moves the court for an order compelling further responses to Plaintiffs’ first
set of Special Interrogatories and monetary sanctions in the amount of
$3,660.00 against Defendant Jaguar Land Rover North America, LLC and its
attorney of record, Turner Henningsen Wolf and Vandenburg LLP. 
 
“On receipt of a
response to interrogatories, the propounding party may move for an order
compelling a further response if the propounding party deems that any of the
following apply: (1) An answer to a particular interrogatory is evasive or
incomplete. (2) An exercise of the option to produce documents under Section
2030.230 is unwarranted or the required specification of those documents is
inadequate. (3) An objection to an interrogatory is without merit or too
general.”¿ (CCP § 2030.300(a).)¿ “A motion under subdivision (a) [of CCP §
2030.300] shall be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration under Section
2016.040.”¿ (CCP § 2030.300(b).)¿ In addition, a separate statement is
required.¿ (California Rules of Court (“CRC”) Rule 3.1345(a)(2).)
 
Plaintiff moves for
further responses to Plaintiff’s special interrogatories, set one. Specifically,
in response to Special Interrogatories 1-3, 8-9, 17 and 42 Defendant referenced
by name certain documents it claimed were “produced concurrently herewith.”
However, Defendant produced no documents. In Response to Special
Interrogatories 10-16[1]
and 19-20 Defendant referred Plaintiff to its response to Form Interrogatory
15.1. Lastly, in response to Special Interrogatories 18, 21-27, 29-41 and
43-48, Defendant asserted only objections. 
 
In opposition, JLRNA
argues the motion was not served with sufficient notice because Plaintiff
forgot to take into consideration the additional two court days required by
Code of Civil Procedure section 1010.6. JLRNA contends the motion should be
denied on this basis alone and if not, requests this court reschedule the
hearing to a later time with sufficient amount of notice. The court finds JLRNA
was not prejudiced by the late filing. The filing was late by two days and
JLRNA was able to oppose the motion on the merits despite forgetting to
properly calendar their opposition. 
 
JLRNA next argues the
motion is procedurally defective because what Plaintiff really seeks is a
production of documents, not further responses. The court finds no grounds to
deny the motion on the grounds of mislabeling. Plaintiff provided all the
necessary information for a motion to compel compliance and JLRNA was able to
oppose the motion on that basis. 
 
JLRNA lastly argues
Plaintiff has failed to show good cause for the requested documents or
information. The court disagrees. As for 18, 21-23, 27-26, 31 and 43-44, the
court finds JLRNA’s policies and procedures relevant. Each is limited to the
Song-Beverly Act. JLRNA may seek a protective order for the policies and
procedures. The court also finds Special Interrogatories 24-25, 29-30 and 40-41
properly seek information about Defendant’s training and practices by which it
does or does not comply with the Song-Beverly Act. The identity of witnesses is
relevant to Plaintiff’s claims. 
 
The court notes
JLRNA’s response “Discovery is continuing, and JLRNA reserves the right to
supplement its response based upon further investigation” is not necessarily
improper. However, if some information is present, it should be provided now.
If new information does come up during JLRNA’s ongoing investigation, JLRNA’s may
supplement its answers. If after reasonable inquiry, JLRNA cannot answer the
request, JRLNA must state so. 
 
The court notes both
parties reference No. 32-39 and 45-48 but these interrogatories are not in the
separate statement and this court cannot properly evaluate them. 
 
Accordingly,
Plaintiff’s Motion to Compel Further Responses to
Plaintiffs’ First Set of Special Interrogatories is GRANTED, in part.
 
The request for sanctions in the amount of $3,660.00
is DENIED as both parties’ positions were substantially justified. 
 


