  Case Number:  21VECV01496    Hearing Date:   July 17, 2024    Dept:  W KEVIN
CRUZ, ET AL. V. THOMAS GUNDERSON
 
MOTION TO QUASH
SERVICE OF SUMMONS AND PLAINTIFF KEVIN CRUZ AND EVELYN CRUZ’S DOE AMENDMENT NO.
2 TO THE COMPLAINT 
 
Date
of Hearing:        July 17, 2024                                      Trial Date:       None set   
Department:
             W                                                        Case No.:        21VECV01496
 
Moving
Party:            Specially Appearing Defendant
Gary Gunderson 
Responding
Party:     Plaintiff Patrice Kaufman  
 
BACKGROUND
 
On November 2, 2021, Plaintiffs Kevin Cruz and Evelyn
Cruz filed a complaint against Thomas Gunderson dba OC Dream Pools for 1.
Breach of Contract; 2. Fraud – Intentional Misrepresentation; 3. Fraud –
Negligent Misrepresentation; 4. Fraud – False Promise; 5. Negligence; 6. Breach
of Implied Covenant to Perform Work in Good and Competent Manner; 7. Recovery of
Payments Made to Unlicensed Contractors; and 8. Recovery on Contractors License
Bond. On September 25, 2019, Plaintiffs entered into a written agreement with Contractor
Defendants for the construction of a swimming pool, hardscapes, water features,
and a cabana at Plaintiff’s home in exchange for $305,000.00. Plaintiffs allege
Defendants failed to seek permits for the Project for several months and in the
interim, Defendants began performing unpermitted work at the subject property.
Plaintiffs further allege that Defendants overbilled the project, Defendants
failed to supply sufficient labor to the project, and unilaterally terminated
the Agreement thereby breaching it. On February 10, 2023, Plaintiff named Dream
Pools Construction, Inc. as Doe 1 and Doe 52 and Mr. Carlos Pools and
Construction, Inc. Plaintiff named Gary Gunderson as Doe 2.
 
On April 14, 2022, Thomas Gunderson filed a
cross-complaint against FC Steel, Inc. and Olma’s Pool Plastering for 1. Breach
of Contract; 2. Equitable Indemnity; 3. Implied Indemnity; 4. Contribution and
Apportionment; and 5. Declaratory Relief. Gunderson named Sky Air Service, Inc.
dba IBuilders 4 U as Roe 1. On August 24, 2023, Gunderson named FC Steel
Building Supply Inc. as Roe 2, FC Steel Building Company Inc. as Roe 3, Francisco
Cazares as Roe 4, and Jose Ruelas Jimenez as Roe 5. On September 5, 2023, Gunderson
named State National Insurance company, Inc. as Roe 6, Alonzo Rodriguez as Roe
7, Rudolph Quintanar as Roe 8, and Business Alliance Insurance Company as Roe
9. State National Insurance Company, Inc. was dismissed November 22, 2023. On
December 27, 2023, Rudolph Quintanar and Alonzo Rodriguez were dismissed.
Business Alliance Insurance Company was dismissed January 5, 2024. 
 
Request for entry of default has been entered against
FC Steel, Inc., Jose Ruelas Jimenez, Sky Air Service, Inc. dba IBuilders 4 U,
FC Steel Building Company, Inc., Francisco Cazares, FC Steel Building Supply,
Inc. 
 
On July 25, 2023, Manuel Marin dba Olma’s Pool
Plastering filed a cross-complaint against ROES 1 – 50 for 1. Equitable
Indemnity; 2. Contribution; 3. Apportionment of Fault; and 4. Declaratory
Relief. 
 
[TENTATIVE]
RULING:
 
Defendant Gary Gunderson’s
Motion to Quash Service of Summons and Doe Amendment No. 2 to the Complaint is
GRANTED. 


REQUEST
FOR JUDICIAL NOTICE
 
Defendant Gary Gunderson
requests this court take judicial notice of Plaintiffs Kevin and Evelyn Cruz’s
Complaint (Exh. 1) and the Summons and Amendment to Complaint for Doe 2 (Exh.
2). The court GRANTS Defendant’s request for judicial notice. 
 
DISCUSSION
 
Defendant
Gary Gunderson, specially appearing, moves to quash service of summons for the
Amendment to Complaint to substitute Gary Gunderson as Doe No. 2 to the
original complaint filed by Plaintiffs Kevin Cruz and Evelyn Cruz. 
 
Code
of Civil Procedure section 474 allows a named defendant to be substituted for a
fictitious defendant if, at the time of filing the complaint, the plaintiff was
genuinely unaware of the named defendant’s identity or of facts giving rise to
a cause of action against the named defendant who was otherwise known to the
plaintiff. (San Diego Navy Broadway Complex Coalition v. California Coastal
Com. (2019) 40 Cal.App.5th 563, 579.) The plaintiff’s lack of knowledge
must be real and not feigned, but whether the plaintiff’s ignorance was due to
misinformation or negligence is irrelevant. (Balon v. Drost (1993) 20 Cal.App.4th
483, 488.) The relation back doctrine does not apply when a plaintiff had
constructive notice of the identity of a fictitiously named defendant. (Organization
Comunidad de Alviso v. City of San Jose (2021) 60 Cal.App.5th 783,
795.) 
 
Defendant
Gary Gunderson argues Plaintiff was not ignorant of Gary Gunderson’s identity
and also knew of the facts giving rise to liability as to all pertinent causes
of action wherein Gary Gunderson is attempted to be substituted. Gary Gunderson
points to the original complaint wherein Plaintiffs specifically alleged that
they knew the identity of Defendant. In Paragraph 30, Plaintiffs alleged that
Thomas Gunderson “falsely stated that his father (with superior experience to
his own) would be involved with Plaintiff’s Project and supervision of the
same. (RJN, Exh. 1, ¶30.) Gary Gunderson further argues that Exhibit A to the
Doe Amendment, which now alleges that “Gary Gunderson and Thomas Gunderson represented
that Gary Gunderson through Mr. Carlos Pools would be providing building
services as an experienced pool building subcontractor[]” is a sham and to
avoid the judicial admission doctrine. (RJN, Exh. 2.) Gary Gunderson also
points to Mr. Carlos Pools’ Interrogatories, which Plaintiff responded (in
pertinent part) “Thomas Gunderson represented to Plaintiffs that he previously
worked for his father’s company, and at that time Thomas Gunderson and Gary
Paul Gunderson each represented to Plaintiffs that Gary Paul Gunderson through
is company Mr. Carlos Pools would be providing building services…” (Freedman
Decl., Exh. A, SROG No. 11.) Gary Gunderson points to several other responses by
Plaintiffs to discovery where Plaintiffs mention him. Accordingly, Gary
Gunderson asserts Plaintiffs knew all facts necessary to bring the claims
asserted against him at the time of filing the complaint. Lastly, Gary
Gunderson notes allowing such DOE amendment would circumvent the statute of
limitations here. 
 
In
opposition, Plaintiffs first argue Gary Gunderson’s motion is fatally flawed
because he has not shown prejudice. A plaintiff may be barred from adding an
individual in place of a “Doe” on the grounds of unreasonable delay in filing
the amendment.  (A.N. v. County of Los Angeles (2009) 171
Cal.App.4th 1058, 1066.) However, Plaintiffs have not sufficiently
demonstrated they were ignorant of Gary Gunderson’s name when they filed the
action. As such, Plaintiffs have not even met the requirements of Code of Civil
Procedure section 474. 
 
Plaintiffs
also argue the reason they waited to add Gary Gunderson was to determine
liability and therefore, it is timely. “If the identity of the Doe defendant is
known but, at the time of the filing of the complaint the plaintiff did not
know facts that would cause a reasonable person to believe that liability is
probable, the requirements of section 474 are met.” (McOwen v. Grossman
(2007) 153 Cal.App.4th 937, 943.)
Whether the plaintiff had knowledge of sufficient facts at the
time of filing is generally a question of fact. (See id. at 945.) 
Plaintiffs contend they did not discover Gary Gunderson’s liability was
probable until after filing the subject complaint. Plaintiffs claim they
discovered Gary Gunderson had subcontracted others for the work at their
property and that he failed to sufficiently supervise and manage the project as
more and more defects were discovered. (Sanders Decl. ¶¶1, 2.) 
 
The
court disagrees. Plaintiffs sued Gary Gunderson’s company, Mr. Carlos Pools
& Construction, Inc., for the exact same conduct, one year prior in
February 2023. Plaintiffs provide no explanation as to why they did not
discover Gary Gunderson’s liability until even one year after that. Counsel
only contends in conclusory terms that after filing the complaint, they
determined Gary was liable and that the investigation and discovery into his
defective workmanship was ongoing. 
 
Plaintiffs
also argue in opposition that the statute of limitation considerations do not
apply because of Emergency Rule 9. Per Emergency Rule 9, and for statutes of
limitations extending beyond 180 days, “the statutes of limitations and repose
for civil causes of action that exceed 180 days are tolled from April 6, 2020,
until October 1, 2020.”  (Cal. Rules of
Court, appen. I, emergency rule 9 (a).)
 
The court finds Plaintiffs have not
sufficiently shown Emergency Rule 9 applies. According to the complaint, the accrual
began no later than December 24, 2020. That is after the time provided in
Emergency Rule 9. “Generally, a cause of action accrues and the statute of
limitation begins to run when a suit may be maintained. Ordinarily this is when
the wrongful act is done and the obligation or the liability arises . . . . In
other words, a cause of action accrues upon the occurrence of the last element
essential to the cause of action. [Citation.]” (Cobb v. City of Stockton (2011)
192 Cal.App.4th 65, 72-73, alterations and internal quotation marks
omitted.) The dates alleged by Plaintiffs are as follows: the parties
entered into a contract September 25, 2019; at some point Defendants failed to
obtain permits per the contract and at the latest, obtained them April 13, 2020;
on September 23, 2020, Plaintiffs hired an outside contractor; Defendants
unilaterally terminated the agreement October 15, 2020; and Defendants last
work was in December 2020.  Thus,
plaintiff had to file suit for claims with a two year statute of limitations by
December 2022 and for a three year statute by December 2023.  Defendant Gary Gunderson was not named until
February 14, 2024.  The earlier tolling
period granted by the Emergency Rule has no bearing on this late filed
complaint.   
 
Accordingly, the motion to quash service of
summons and Doe Amendment no. 2 is GRANTED. 