 Case Number:  23STCV13330    Hearing Date:   April 11, 2024    Dept:  54 


Superior Court of
  California
County of Los
  Angeles




 
Laura Spensley,


 
 
 
Plaintiff,


 
Case No.:
 


 
23STCV13330




 
vs.


 


 
Tentative Ruling
 




 
Yaniv Ben Ami, et al.,


 
 
 
Defendants.


 


 




 


 


 


 



 
Hearing Date: April 11, 2024
Department 54, Judge Maurice A. Leiter
Motion to Set Aside Entry of Default;
Demurrer to Complaint
 
T/R:      DEFENDANTS’ MOTION TO SET ASIDE DEFAULT
IS GRANTED.
 
DEFENDANTS’ DEMURRER IS OVERRULED.
 
DEFENDANTS TO NOTICE.
 
If the parties wish to submit on the tentative, please
email the courtroom at SMCdept54@lacourt.org with
notice to opposing counsel (or self-represented party) before 8:00 am on the
day of the hearing. 
 
The Court considers the moving papers,
oppositions, and replies.
 
BACKGROUND
 
On June 9, 2023, Plaintiff Laura Spensley sued
Defendants Yaniv Ben Ami, Yaniv Ben Ami Living Trust, Keren Shabat, and EG
Renovation, Inc., asserting causes of action for (1) breach of oral contract;
(2) fraud in the inducement; (3) breach of the covenant of good faith and fair
dealing; (4) unjust enrichment; (5) conversion; (6) quiet title; (7)
declaratory relief; (8) constructive trust; (9) punitive damages; and (10)
construction defects.
Plaintiff alleges she engaged Defendants to
build an accessory dwelling unit (ADU) on her real property. Plaintiff alleges
Defendants’ construction was defective and Defendants overcharged her.
ANALYSIS
A. Motion to Set Aside Entry of Default
CCP § 473(b) provides, in pertinent
part, “[t]he court may, upon any terms as may be just, relieve a party or his
or her legal representative from a judgment, dismissal, order, or other
proceeding taken against him or her through his or her mistake, inadvertence,
surprise, or excusable neglect.”
 
Defendants Yaniv Ben Ami and Keren
Shabat move to set aside the default entered against them on February 2, 2024.
Moving Defendants were served with the complaint by Notice of Acknowledgment
and Receipt on December 4, 2023 and by publication on December 15, 2023. The
December 4, 2023 notice of acknowledgment contained Defendants’ signatures but
the signatures were not dated. Defendants represent that their attorney asked
them to re-sign the notice of acknowledgment on February 2, 2024 in order to
add the date to the signature.
 
Defendants provide the declaration of
Ami only, who states “the default was entered without my thinking about any
awareness of publication. The default was made unexpectedly.” (Decl. Ami.) 
 
In opposition, Plaintiff asserts
Defendants have failed to establish excusable neglect or mistake. Plaintiff
argues that a dated signature is not necessary to enforce a notice of
acknowledgment and receipt. Plaintiff emphasizes that Defendants did have
actual notice of the complaint.
 
The Court will set aside default.
Defendants were made to believe that the December 4, 2023 notice of
acknowledgement was defective; they were told to re-sign on February 2, 2024. That
is an adequate showing of excusable mistake.
 
Defendants’ motion to set aside default
is GRANTED.
 
B. Demurrer to Complaint
 
A demurrer to a complaint may be taken to the
whole complaint or to any of the causes of action in it.  (CCP § 430.50(a).)  A demurrer challenges only the legal
sufficiency of the complaint, not the truth of its factual allegations or the
plaintiff's ability to prove those allegations. 
(Picton v. Anderson Union High Sch. Dist. (1996) 50 Cal.
App. 4th 726, 732.)  The court must treat
as true the complaint's material factual allegations, but not contentions,
deductions or conclusions of fact or law. 
(Id. at 732-33.)  The
complaint is to be construed liberally to determine whether a cause of action
has been stated.  (Id. at 733.)
Defendants Yaniv Ben Ami Living Trust and EG
Renovations demur to the complaint on the grounds that it is uncertain and
fails to state sufficient facts. 
Defendants assert that Plaintiff’s
allegations are vague as to time and do not provide details of the
transactions. For example, Plaintiff alleges Defendants incorrectly installed
roof flashing. Defendants argue that Plaintiff must allege how Defendants
incorrectly installed roof flashing. The Court disagrees. Plaintiff has alleged
ultimate facts and has provided sufficient detail of Defendants’ alleged
wrongdoing. 
Defendants also contend that the claims for
unjust enrichment, constructive trust, punitive damages, and declaratory relief
fail because they are remedies rather than causes of action. Plaintiff may
allege entitlement to the remedies in the complaint. That these remedies are
titled as causes of action is of no material consequence.
Defendants’ demurrer is OVERRULED.
 
 
 
 