 Case Number:  23CHCV01046    Hearing Date:   June 24, 2024    Dept:  F49 


Dept.
  F49




Date:
  6/24/24




Case
  Name: Andrew Swihart v. AASTA Assisted Living, Inc., et al.




Case No.
  23CHCV01046



 
LOS ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT
NORTH VALLEY DISTRICT
DEPARTMENT F49
 

JUNE 24, 2024
 

MOTION TO COMPEL ARBITRATION

Los Angeles Superior
Court Case No. 23CHCV01046

 
Motion
filed: 5/20/24
 
MOVING PARTY: Defendant Housekeeps Manpower
Healthcare, LLC (“Housekeeps” or the “Moving Defendant”) 
RESPONDING PARTY: Plaintiff Andrew Swihart,
individually and as personal representative and successors-in-interest to the
Estate of Timothy Swihart (“Swihart” or “Plaintiff”)
NOTICE: OK¿¿ 
 
RELIEF
REQUESTED: An
order from this Court (1) compelling Plaintiff to submit to binding arbitration,
and (2) staying proceedings for the remaining Plaintiff pending the resolution
of the arbitration.
 
TENTATIVE
RULING: The
motion is DENIED.
 
BACKGROUND
 
This elder abuse action involves Plaintiff who is the child
and successor-in-interest of decedent Timothy Swihart (“Decedent”) against
Defendants who are alleged to have acted negligently in providing their
in-house hospice and nursing care.
 
On April 11, 2023, Plaintiffs Andrew Swihart and Amy Schmid,
individually and as personal representatives and successors-in-interest of the
Estate of Timothy Swihart (collectively, “Plaintiffs”) initiated the action. Subsequently,
Housekeeps filed an Answer to the Complaint on July 28, 2023.
 
On December 21, 2023, Plaintiffs filed a request for
dismissal, dismissing Plaintiff Amy Schmid, which was entered by the Clerk on
December 22, 2023. 
 
Following a demurrer filed by Defendants Kumar Lifecare
Hospice, Inc. dba AASTA Hospice (Doe 1) and Kumar Lifecare Hospice, Inc. (Doe
2) (collectively, “Kumar”) on September 19, 2023, which was subsequently
sustained in part by Department F51 Court, Plaintiff Swihart was granted leave
to amend. On January 3, 2024, Plaintiff filed the operative First Amended
Complaint (“FAC”). Subsequently, Kumar and Housekeeps filed their respective
Answers to the FAC on February 20 and March 11, 2024, respectively.
 
On May 20, 2024, Housekeeps filed the instant Motion to
Compel Arbitration (the “Motion”). 
 
Subsequently, Plaintiff filed an Opposition to the Motion on
June 4, 2024, and Housekeeps replied on June 14, 2024.
 
ANALYSIS
 
Under Code of Civil Procedure
section 1281.2, “On petition of a party to an arbitration agreement alleging
the existence of a written agreement to arbitrate a controversy ... the court
shall order the petitioner and the respondent to arbitrate the controversy if
it determines that an agreement to arbitrate the controversy exists,” unless
the court finds that the right to compel arbitration has been “waived by the
petitioner,” or that “grounds exist for rescission” of the arbitration
agreement. (Code Civ. Proc., § 1281.2, subds. (a) & (b).)
 
When seeking to compel arbitration of a plaintiff’s claims,
the defendant must allege the existence of an agreement to arbitrate.  (Condee v. Longwood Management Corp.
(2001) 88 Cal.App.4th 215, 219 (Condee).)  The burden then shifts to the plaintiff to
prove the falsity of the agreement.  (Ibid.)  After the Court determines that an agreement
to arbitrate exists, it then considers objections to its enforceability.  (Ibid.)  The Court must grant a motion to compel
arbitration unless the defendant has waived the right to compel arbitration or
if there are grounds to revoke the arbitration agreement.  (Ibid.; Code Civ. Proc., § 1281.2.)
 
A.   
Applicability
of Federal Arbitration Act (FAA)
 
The Federal Arbitration Act (“FAA”)
applies to agreements to arbitrate disputes arising from a contract involving interstate commerce
and it preempts all state laws and rules that conflict with its provisions or
its objective of enforcing arbitration agreements.” (Acquire
II, supra, 213 Cal.App.4th at p. 968; see 9 U.S.C. § 2 [FAA applies
to a “contract evidencing a transaction involving commerce”].)
 
The United States Supreme Court has
interpreted “involving commerce” as the functional equivalent of “affecting commerce,” even where the parties did not
contemplate an interstate commerce
connection. (Allied-Bruce Terminix Companies, Inc. v. Dobson (1995)
513 U.S. 265, 281.) The commerce clause power
could be exercised to preempt state law without showing any effect upon
interstate commerce if, in the aggregate, the economic activity represents “‘a
general practice ... subject to federal control.’” (Citizens Bank v. Alafabco, Inc. (2003) 539 U.S. 52,
56-57.) “Only that general practice need bear on interstate
commerce in a substantial way.” (Ibid.)
 
Here, Housekeeps claims that FAA governs
the agreement, which Plaintiff and it signed and entered into a formally
written contract, known as the Private Nursing Care Services Agreement (the
“Agreement”), where Housekeeps was contracted to provide Plaintiff’s father,
Timothy Swihart, with personal care, companion, and certified nursing aide and
other services. (Roda Decl. ¶ 4, Mot. Ex. “B.”)
 
In response, Plaintiff counters that the
FAA does not apply, claiming the Agreement does not involve interstate commerce
– a requisite for FAA application. The Plaintiff argues that Housekeeps has
failed to meet its burden of demonstrating that
the subject matter of the agreement involves interstate commerce. (Lane v. Francis Capital Management LLC (2014) 224
Cal.App.4th 676, 687; Carbajal v. CWPSC, Inc. (2016) 245 Cal.App.4th 227, 234,
238.)
 
The Court recognizes that both
the FAA and the California Arbitration Act (Code Civ. Proc., § 1280 et seq.)
“strongly favor arbitration” (Prima Donna Development Corp.
v. Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. (2019) 42 Cal.App.5th 22, 35), and
“establish[ ] ‘a presumption in favor of arbitrability.’” (OTO, L.L.C. v. Kho (2019) 8 Cal.5th 111, 125.) 
 
However, given that Housekeeps has
not effectively presented evidence establishing the contract has a substantial
relationship to interstate commerce, the Court agrees with Plaintiff’s position
that Housekeeps, as the party asserting the FAA, has failed to meet its initial
burden, and the Court cannot conclude that FAA governs this case. 
 
The Court will therefore continue to evaluate the
enforceability of the Arbitration Clause within the Agreement, pursuant to Code
of Civil Procedure section 1281.2 and legal principals outlined in California
case law.
 
B.    
Existence of
An Arbitration Agreement and Covered Claims
 
Housekeeps has attached the Agreement to its Motion,
wherein the arbitration clause states, “(a) Any controversy arising from/under
this Agreement shall be resolved by binding arbitration. (b) Attorney’s fees,
costs, and all expenses, related to any arbitration proceeding, that arise from
this Agreement, shall be paid by non-prevailing party. If the decision of the
arbitrator does not clearly delineate, who the prevailing party is, the
arbitrators shall decide which party shall bear all the cost, expenses and
attorney’s fees incurred by both parties.” (Mot. Ex. “B,” ¶ 9.)
 
Plaintiff does not dispute the validity of the
Agreement. Nor does Plaintiff argue that the claims in the FAC do not arise
from or under the Agreement. 
 
Thus, the Court determines that an agreement to
arbitrate exists, and moves to consider Plaintiff’s objections to the
enforcement of the Arbitration Clause – namely, the Arbitration Claim does not
bind Defendant Kumar, being a nonsignatory to the Agreement, and the case
cannot be bifurcated between Kumar and Housekeeps. (Opp’n. at pp. 4-5.)
 
C.    Potential
for Inconsistent Rulings 
 
“While there is a strong public
policy in favor of arbitration, there is an ‘equally compelling argument that
the Legislature has also authorized trial courts to refuse enforcement of an
arbitration agreement [or to stay the arbitration] when, as here, there is a
possibility of conflicting rulings.’” (Fitzhugh v. Granada Healthcare
& Rehabilitation Center, LLC (2007) 150 Cal.App.4th 469,
475.)
 
Pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 1281.2, subdivision (c), a
third-party litigation exception permits a court to refuse to compel
arbitration of a controversy that is within the scope of a valid arbitration
agreement if “it determines that: ... (c) A party to the arbitration agreement
is also a party to a pending court action or special proceeding with a third
party, arising out of the same transaction or series of related
transactions and there is a possibility of conflicting rulings on a common
issue of law or fact.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 1281.2, subd. (c); see also Acquire II, Ltd. v. Colton Real Estate Group (2013) 213
Cal.App.4th 959, 967–968.) (Underlines added.) For purposes of section 1281.2,
“a third party is one who is neither bound by nor entitled to enforce the
arbitration agreement.” (Daniels v. Sunrise Senior
Living, Inc. (2013) 212 Cal.App.4th 674, 679.) 
 
Here, it is uncontested that Kumar is a nonsignatory
to the Agreement. The FAC alleges that Kumar entered into a separate written
agreement with Plaintiff. (FAC, ¶ 24.) There is no evidence showing that Kumar is
bound by or entitled to enforce the Arbitration Clause in the Agreement entered
by Plaintiff and Housekeeps. 
 
Thus, the Court determines that Kumar is a third party
for the purpose of Code of Civil Procedure section 1281.2, subdivision (c).
 
Furthermore, the Court finds that the proposed arbitration
between Housekeeps and Plaintiff raises a risk of conflicting rulings on common
issues of law and fact. 
 
Here, both parties acknowledge that the claims against
Defendants Housekeeps and Kumar involve the same set of facts and law. Resolution
of these common questions in different forums presents the possibility of inconsistent rulings on those issues. For instance,
in an arbitration, the arbitrator might determine that Housekeeps is not liable
for negligence, did not breach the contract or commit elder abuse, and deny
relief to Plaintiff, while a trial court might reach a contrary finding against
Kumar, who is not subject to an arbitration agreement. Because Kumar in court
might be held liable for injuries based on the same conduct that Plaintiff
alleges against the arbitrating Defendant Housekeeps — or vice versa — the
possibility of conflicting rulings on common issues of law or fact plainly exists.
 
Therefore, the
Court finds that the enforcement of the Arbitration Clause is not justified
under the third-party litigation exception, pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure
section 1281.2, subdivision (c).
 
Additionally,
Housekeeps maintains that the equitable estoppel doctrine applies when a party
has signed an agreement to arbitrate but attempts to avoid arbitration by suing
nonsignatory defendants, citing Rowe v. Exline (2007) 153 Cal.App.4th
1276, 1287 (Rowe). However, the Court finds Housekeeps’s reliance on Rowe
is misplaced.
 
The Rowe
court expressly held that Code of Civil Procedure section 1281.2, subdivision
(c) did not apply to that case because the nonsignatory defendants, who were
individual directors sued as alter egos of the defendant corporation, may
enforce arbitration of the claims against them, thus they are not “ ‘third
parties’ within the meaning of the section 1281.2, subdivision (c).“ (Rowe,
supra, 153 Cal.App.4th at p. 1290.)
 
Here,
Housekeeps and Kumar are independent entities and there is no allegation of
alter egos. Additionally, there is no allegation or evidence showing that Kumar
may enforce or be bound by the Arbitration Clause at issue entered by Plaintiff
and Housekeeps. Thus, the Court finds that Code of Civil Procedure section
1281.2, subdivision (c), is applicable in this case, distinguishing it from the
governing law in Rowe.
 
Based
on the foregoing, the Court DENIES the Motion to Compel Arbitration based on
the application of the third-party
litigation exception, under Code of Civil Procedure section 1281.2, subdivision
(c). 
 
CONCLUSION
 
Moving
Defendant’s Motion to Compel Arbitration is DENIED.
 
Moving
party to provide notice.
 