  Case Number:  22SMCV01397    Hearing Date:   May 31, 2024    Dept:  N TENTATIVE RULINGDefendants Bill Lee, Marc Milo Mandel, and Mandel-Parks Real Estate’s Motion to Compel Dr. Massoud Amini’s Compliance with Deposition Subpoena for Production of Documents and Request for Sanctions Against Dr. Massoud Amini for $435.00 is DENIED.Defendants Bill Lee, Marc Milo Mandel, and Mandel-Parks Real Estate to give notice. REASONINGDefendants Bill Lee, Marc Milo Mandel, and Mandel-Parks Real Estate (“Defendants”) move the Court for an order compelling nonparty Dr. Massoud Amini to produce the requested records pursuant to a subpoena and pay monetary sanctions for failure to do so.” The Court notes that the declaration attached to the motion contains typographical errors making it difficult for the Court to determine who is filing the declaration, i.e., defense counsel signs the document, implying this is counsel’s declaration, and the top of the declaration states as much, but the declaration also states that the declarant, defense counsel, is the defendant in this action, and that the declaration is made by all three defendants, which would be improper if counsel signed the declaration. Nonetheless, the Court assumes for the purposes of this motion that the declaration was made by defense counsel. A party may obtain discovery pursuant to a deposition subpoena that commands the production of business records for copying. (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 2020.010, subd. (a)(1), 2020.410.) If a nonparty disobeys a deposition subpoena, the subpoenaing party may seek a court order compelling the nonparty to comply with the subpoena within 60 days after completion of the deposition record. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.480, subds. (a)-(b).) Where the deposition subpoena requires the production of documents, the Court may make an order directing compliance with the subpoena. (Code Civ. Proc., § 1987.1, subd. (a).)On September 13, 2023, Defendants served Dr. Amini with the subject subpoena seeking production of business records, and Dr. Amini has not produced the subpoenaed documents. (Mot., Torsney Decl. ¶¶ 2, 4, Ex. B.) The Court has reviewed the subject subpoena and finds that Defendants have not established good cause for seeking the documents requested in the subpoena. First, the language of the subpoena is unclear, as the use of punctuation makes it such that the recipient may believe Defendants are seeking production of any and all documents relating to care of any patient at any time. Moreover, as to Mohammed Tehrani, it is not clear why Defendants need to obtain any medical information or payment of medical bills for this individual, as this action is merely one for wrongful eviction in the complaint and breach of contract in the cross-complaint, i.e., the Court lacks a basis to conclude that medical information is relevant to any of claims or defenses. Finally, it is not clear that Defendants served Dr. Amini with this motion, as he is not included in the proof of service, but even if the motion had been properly served, Defendants have not established an entitlement to the information they seek. Accordingly, Defendants Bill Lee, Marc Milo Mandel, and Mandel-Parks Real Estate’s Motion to Compel Dr. Massoud Amini’s Compliance with Deposition Subpoena for Production of Documents and Request for Sanctions Against Dr. Massoud Amini for $435.00 is DENIED.