  Case Number:  20STCV27665    Hearing Date:   October 3, 2023    Dept:  40 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
Department 40
 



SANDRA NORLUND, an individual, and SANDRA NORLUND, Trustee of
  the Norlund Family Trust Dated September 15, 2000,
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
RICHARD L. NORLUND; SHARON K. BACON-NORLUND; RICHARD L. NORLUND
  as Successor Trustee of “Trust A” of the “Norlund Family Trust dated March
  16, 1987”; RICHARD L. NORLUND as Successor Trustee of “Trust B” of the
  “Norlund Family Trust dated March 16, 1987”; RICHARD L. NORLUND as Trustee of
  “Richard L. Norlund Separate Property Trust dated December 11, 1997”; RICHARD
  L. NORLUND and SHARON K. BACON-NORLUND, as Trustees of the “Norlund Family
  Trust dated May 13, 2019” and DOES 1 through 100, inclusive,
                        Defendants.
NANCY HYMAS, as Trustee for Trust A FBO NANCY HYMAS and Trust B
  FBO NANCY HYMAS,
                        Nominal
  Defendants.


 Case No.:          20STCV27665
 Hearing Date:   10/3/23
 Trial Date:        N/A
 [TENTATIVE] RULING RE:
Plaintiffs Sandra
  Norlund, an individual, and Sandra Norlund, Trustee of the Norlund Family
  Trust Dated September 15, 2000’s Motion for Summary Adjudication.



 
 
Background
Pleadings Framing Motion
Plaintiffs Sandra and Sandra
[Trustee] (collectively, Plaintiffs, or Sandra) sue the Norlund Defendants and
Nominal Defendants Nancy Hymas pursuant to a July 29, 2020 First Amended
Complaint that alleged claims of (1) Judicial Foreclosure, (2) Fraud, and (3)
Intentional Interference with Prospective Economic Advantage.
By way of background, the Fraud and
Intentional Interference with Prospective Economic Advantage claims were
stricken by Department 40 on April 13, 2021, based on a representation by
Plaintiffs that only the Judicial Foreclosure cause of action remained.
As explained by the court of appeal,
the sole remaining claim in this complaint, the first cause of action, arises
from allegations that:
“… Richard [Norlund] defaulted on
[a] promissory note [between the parties] [(hereafter, Note)] by failing and
refusing ‘to pay [Sandra] the agreed upon $7,668.22 per month required by’ the [N]ote.
Sandra also alleged Richard breached the settlement agreement [that gave rise
to the Note (hereafter, Settlement Agreement)] because, after [Sandra] approved
the proposed form of the deed of trust for Richard to record with the Los
Angeles County Recorder’s Office, Richard modified the terms of the deed of
trust so that it did not refer to the right promissory note. Specifically,
Sandra claimed that Richard changed the date of the promissory note appearing
on the deed of trust, which meant the date of the promissory note on the deed
of trust did not match the date of her … [N]ote, and that [Richard] recorded
the altered deed of trust without her approval. Sandra further alleged Richard,
by refusing ‘to provide the valid Deed of Trust,’ breached his agreement to
provide Sandra with ‘appropriate documentation to allow her to obtain a
Lender[’s] Policy of Title Insurance.’ Sandra alleged Sharon ‘conspired’ with
Richard to alter the deed of trust.”
Motion Before the Court
On June 23, 2023, Sandra moved for
summary adjudication of five different “issues.”
On June 29, 2023, Nominal Defendants
Nancy Hymas joined the motion.
On August 31, 2023, the Norlund
Defendants opposed Sandra’s motion, which included various requests for
judicial notice and evidentiary objections.
On September 1, 2023, the Norlund
Defendants noticed an errata filing relating to Exhibit 12 and paragraph 41 of
Richard Norlund’s opposition declaration.
On September 6, 2023, the Norlund
Defendants filed three volumes of evidence.
On September 7, 2023, Sandra replied
to the Norlund Defendants’ opposition, which included evidentiary objections
and objections to the request for judicial notice.
That same day, Sandra made an
errata filing attaching three exhibits that Sandra Norlund had failed to attach
to her June 23, 2023 declaration and clarifying a mistaken reference in
paragraph 35 of that declaration.
On September 8, 2023, Nancy Hymas
noticed a non-opposition of her joinder.
That same day, the Norlund
Defendants filed objections to parts of the Plummer and Okerlund declarations
attached to the reply and to parts of the September 7, 2023 notice of errata.
Sandra’s motion is now before the
Court.
 
Request
for Judicial Notice
DENIED. The Court need not take
judicial notice where Plaintiffs’ motion is procedurally improper. (See Opp’n, Request
for Judicial Notice (RJN); Reply, RJN Objections (Objs.).)
 
Evidentiary
Objections
NOT RULED on as not dispositive of
this motion. (See Opp’n, Evidentiary (Evid.) Objs.; Reply, Objs. to RJN; Reply,
Evid. Objs.; 9/8/23 Objs. to Reply & Errata Notice.)
 
Motion for Summary Adjudication
Legal
Standard
“A
court may grant a motion for summary judgment ‘“only when ‘all the papers
submitted show that there is no triable issue as to any material fact and that
the moving party is entitled to a judgment as a matter of law.’”’” (Fajardo
v. Dailey (2022) 85 Cal.App.5th 221, 225; see Code Civ. Proc., § 437c,
subd. (c); Regents of University of California v. Superior Court (2018)
4 Cal.5th 607, 618.) A party may also seek summary adjudication of select
causes of action, affirmative defenses, claims for damages, or issues of duty,
which may be made by a standalone motion or as an alternative to a motion for
summary judgment and proceeds in all procedural respects like a motion for
summary judgment. (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subds. (f)(1)-(2), (t); see Lilienthal
& Fowler v. Superior Court (1993) 12 Cal.App.4th 1848, 1854-1855,
questioned by dictum in Bagley v. TRW, Inc. (1999) 73 Cal.App.4th 1092,
1094, fn. 2 [finding that summary adjudication may be granted as to separate
factual grounds supporting a claim stated as a single count because the
separate grounds state a separate cause of action].) “… ‘[A] summary
adjudication motion is subject to the same rules and procedures as a summary
judgment motion.’ [Citation.]” (Kerkeles v. City of San Jose (2011) 199
Cal.App.4th 1001, 1008.)
“A
defendant moving for summary judgment has the initial burden of presenting
evidence that a cause of action lacks merit because the plaintiff cannot
establish an element of the cause of action or there is a complete defense.” (Sabetian
v. Exxon Mobil Corp. (2020) 57 Cal.App.5th 1054, 1068; see Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 437c, subd. (p)(2); Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25
Cal.4th 826, 850.) “‘Only after the defendant carries that initial burden does
the burden shift to the plaintiff “to show that a triable issue of one or more
material facts exists as to the cause of action …..”’” (Fajardo, at p.
226; see Luebke v. Automobile Club of Southern California (2020) 59
Cal.App.5th 694, 703.) The burden on summary judgment or adjudication “is more
properly one of persuasion rather than proof, since he must persuade the court
that there is no material fact for a reasonable trier of fact to find, and not
to prove any such fact to the satisfaction of the court itself as though it
were sitting as the trier of fact.” (Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co., supra,
25 Cal.4th at p. 850, fn. 11.)
“[I]n
ruling on motions for summary judgment courts are to ‘“liberally construe the
evidence in support of the party opposing summary judgment and resolve doubts
concerning the evidence in favor of that party.”’ [Citations].” (Cheal v. El
Camino Hospital (2014) 223 Cal.App.4th 736, 760.)
Order
Granting Summary Adjudication of Issue Nos. 1-5: DENIED, Without
Prejudice.
As
an initial matter, the Court questions whether the motion seeks relief relating
to issues that go beyond the scope of the pleadings in the FAC—see e.g., Issue
No. 1. 
Moving
to the merits, Plaintiffs’ motion presents five “issues” for summary
adjudication. (See Mot., Second Amended Notice.)
The
Norlund Defendants argue that Plaintiffs’ motion for summary adjudication
should be denied because it does not specify any issues of duty or cause of
action sought to be adjudicated. (Opp’n, p. 8.)
After
review, the Court agrees and therefore DENIES Plaintiffs’ motion for summary
adjudication because no proper issues are before the Court upon which summary
adjudication may be granted.
Summary
adjudication may properly be granted as to questions of whether a defendant
does or does not owe a duty to a plaintiff, whether certain damages exist, and
whether there is merit to an affirmative defense. (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c,
subd. (f)(1); see Linden Partners v. Wilshire Linden Asscs. (1998) 62
Cal.App.4th 508, 518-519 (Linden) [“it may fairly be concluded from
settled authority and upon a reasonable interpretation of legislative intent
that if, under the facts and circumstances of a given case, a court finds it
appropriate to determine the existence or non-existence of a duty in the nature
of a contractual obligation, it may properly do so by a ruling on that issue
presented by a motion for summary adjudication”].) Here, however, Issue Nos.
1-5 do not involve the determination as to whether a duty does or does not
exist, whether certain damages do or do not exist, or whether an affirmative
defense has merit. (See Mot., Second Amended Notice.) Instead, Plaintiffs seek
summary adjudication of “issues” that involve a determination of whether
liability exists in specific and limited circumstances. (See Mot., pp. 13-25.)
Summary
adjudication may also be properly granted as to causes of action in a pleading.
(Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (f)(1).) Here, however, Issue Nos. 1-5 request
that this Court make determinations as to certain “issues,” not that the Court
summarily adjudicate any specific cause of action, of which only one remains:
Judicial Foreclosure, which the Court reads as breach of contract. (Cf. below
discussion re: Issue No. 2.)
Issue
Nos. 1, 3, and 4 involve issues of whether contractual duties in the Note and
the Settlement Agreement were breached by the Norlund Defendants through
various defaults on contractual obligations, which is improper matter for
summary adjudication. Issue No. 2 seeks summary adjudication that “this Court
should find that there is an ‘Equitable Mortgage’ and order that a Judicial
Foreclosure take place forthwith because RICHARD NORLUND is in default on the
Promissory Note and the agreed upon relief Foreclosure if he defaulted”].) See
Mot., p. 15 However, Plaintiffs’ motion is framed as seeking disposition of an
issue, not summary adjudication of a cause of action, or even summary
adjudication of damages. (See Mot., pp. 14-15; see also Mot., Second Amended
Notice.) Plaintiff’s point and authorities support this conclusion insofar as
the points and authorities do not address the elements of the first cause of
action but instead seek adjudication on five discrete issues involving
liability. (See Mot., Second Amended Notice; Mot., pp. 13-25.) The Court also
notes that Plaintiffs’ motion does not seek summary adjudication of affirmative
defenses raised by the Norlund Defendants in their Answer to the FAC. This is
despite Plaintiffs’ motion arguing that they “can also establish that
Defendants have no viable Affirmative Defenses to excuse these breaches.”
(Mot., p. 13; see also Mot., p. 26 [Without making a showing as to each
affirmative defense, arguing that “[t]here is no meritorious Affirmative
Defense[] to” the cited defaults or other wrongful conduct].) These
deficiencies merit a denial.
Issue
No. 5 involves a question of whether constructive fraud took place (see Mot.,
Second Amended Notice; Mot., pp. 19-25), which is a question different than
whether summary adjudication is proper as to an operative cause of action
(here, only the breach of contract/judicial foreclosure claim remains), an
affirmative defense, the existence of a duty, or damages. (Code Civ. Proc., §
437c, subd. (f)(1).)
Plaintiffs
and Nancy Hymas cite no authority permitting summary adjudication of elements
of causes of action—contrasted with summary adjudication of the entire cause of
action or to a duty pleaded in a cause of action. (See Mot. & Joinder.) At
most, the reply argues that “[a] duty to comply with the terms of a Contract
and the breach thereof are clearly issues of duty.” (Reply, ¶ 18.) The Court
disagrees with this statement as framed because while the existence of a duty is
a matter proper for summary adjudication (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd.
(f)(1); Linden, supra, 62 Cal.App.4th pp. 518-519, 522), whether
a breach of a duty took place lies outside the scope of the summary
adjudication statutory scheme (see Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (f)(1)).
Summary
adjudication as to Issue Nos. 1 to 5 is therefore improper and must be denied, without
prejudice. Issues relating to procedure have already led to one reversal in
this action. The Court must ensure that proper relief is requested in summary
judgment/adjudication motions and that other applicable procedures are
followed. 

Conclusion
Plaintiffs Sandra Norlund, an individual, and Sandra Norlund, Trustee of
the Norlund Family Trust Dated September 15, 2000’s Motion for Summary
Adjudication is DENIED, Without Prejudice.