  Case Number:  22STCV25671    Hearing Date:   February 16, 2024    Dept:  56  
 
 
 
 
 
SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



AMBER COYLE,
 
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
 
745 NORMANDIE REI, LLC, et al.,
 
                        Defendants.


 


     
  CASE NO.:  22STCV25671
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER RE: (1) MOTION FOR
  LEAVE TO AMEND; (2) MOTION TO CONTINUE TRIAL
 
Date: 
  February 16, 2024
Time: 8:30 a.m.
Dept. 56
Judge: Holly J. Fujie
Jury Trial: March 11, 2024
 



 
MOVING PARTY: Plaintiff
 
RESPONDING PARTY: Defendants 
 
The Court has considered the moving, opposition and reply papers. 
 
BACKGROUND
This action was
initiated on August 9, 2022.  The
currently operative first amended complaint (the “FAC”), filed on September 1,
2023, alleges: (1) breach of implied warranty of habitability/tenantability;
(2) breach of contract; (3) breach of the implied covenant of quiet enjoyment;
(4) breach of good faith and fair dealing; (5) nuisance; (6) negligence; (7)
battery; (8) intentional infliction of emotional distress; (9) negligent
infliction of emotional distress; (10) violation of Tenant Anti-Harassment
Ordinance; (11) violation of Civil Code section 1942.4; and (12) violations of
Los Angeles Municipal Code section 49.99.2.
 
On January 22,
2024, Plaintiff filed a motion to continue trial (the “Trial Motion”).  The Trial Motion requests a continuance of
the trial date to August 11, 2024. 
 
On January 23,
2024, Plaintiff filed a motion for leave to file a second amended complaint
(the “SAC Motion”).  The proposed second
amended complaint (the “SAC”) adds a thirteenth cause of action alleging
constructive eviction.  (See SAC
Motion, Exhibit 1.)
 
MOTION FOR LEAVE TO AMEND
California Code of Civil Procedure (“CCP”)
section 473 permits the trial court in its discretion to allow amendments
to pleadings in the furtherance of justice. 
(CCP § 473, subd. (a)(1).)  CCP
section 576 provides that any judge, at any time before or after commencement
of trial, in the furtherance of justice, and upon such terms as may be proper,
may allow the amendment of any pleading or pretrial conference order.  (CCP § 576.)  There is a policy of great liberality in
permitting amendments to the pleadings at any stage of the proceeding.  (Berman v. Bromberg (1997) 56
Cal.App.4th 936, 945.)  An application to
amend a pleading is addressed to the trial judge’s sound discretion.  (Id.)  If the motion to amend is timely made and the
granting of the motion will not prejudice the opposing party, it is error to
refuse permission to amend and where the refusal also results in a party being
deprived of the right to assert a meritorious cause of action or a meritorious
defense, it is not only error but an abuse of discretion.  (Morgan v. Superior Court of Cal. In and
For Los Angeles County (1959) 172 Cal.App.2d 527, 530.)  Where no prejudice is shown to the adverse
party, the liberal rule of allowance prevails.  (Higgins v. Del Faro (1981) 123
Cal.App.3d 558, 564.)
 
Under California Rules of Court
(“CRC”), rule 3.1324, a motion for leave to amend a pleading must be accompanied
by a declaration that sets forth: (1) the effect of the amendment; (2) why the
amendment is necessary and proper; (3) when the facts giving rise to the
amended allegations were discovered; and (4) the reasons why the request for
amendment was not made sooner.  (CRC, r.
3.1324(b).)
 
            The
facts underlying the proposed allegations in the SAC were learned sometime before
August 24, 2023.  (See Declaration
of Maxwell R. Meyering (“Meyering Decl.”) ¶ 3.) 
On August 24, 2023, Plaintiff contacted Defendants’ counsel to request a
stipulation for Plaintiff to file the SAC. 
(See Meyering Decl. ¶¶ 3-4.) 
Defendants’ counsel stated that they were not open to stipulating to
allowing Plaintiff to file the SAC and requested that Plaintiff participate in
mediation before revisiting the issue.  (See
Meyering Decl. ¶ 7.)  Plaintiff and
Defendants unsuccessfully participated in a mediation on October 31, 2023.  (Declaration of Hripsime Martirosyan
(“Martirosyan Decl.”) ¶ 7.) 
Defendants did not respond to Plaintiff’s subsequent requests to
stipulate to the filing of the SAC.  (See
Martirosyan Decl. ¶ 8.)  
 
            The
Court finds that the SAC Motion does not adequately set forth why the proposed amendment
is necessary and proper.  Notwithstanding
the October 31, 2023 mediation date, the SAC Motion further fails to
sufficiently explain why Plaintiff did not seek leave to amend earlier.  The Court therefore DENIES the SAC Motion. 
 
MOTION TO CONTINUE TRIAL
CRC, rule 3.1332(a) provides
that trial dates are firm to ensure prompt disposition of civil cases. 
(CRC, r. 3.1332(a).)  Continuances are thus generally disfavored. 
(CRC, r. 3.1332(b).)  Nevertheless, the trial court has discretion to continue
trial dates.  (Hernandez v. Superior Court (2004) 115 Cal.App.4th
1242, 1246.)  Each request for continuance must be considered on its own
merits and is granted upon an affirmative showing of good cause.  (CRC, r.
3.1332(c).)  Circumstances that may
indicate good cause include: (1) the unavailability of an essential lay or
expert witness due to death, illness, or other excusable circumstances; (2) the
unavailability of a party due to death, illness, or other excusable
circumstances; (3) the unavailability of trial counsel due to death, illness,
or other excusable circumstances; (4) the substitution of trial counsel where
there is an affirmative showing that the substitution is required in the
interests of justice; (5) the addition of a new party if (a) the new party has
not had a reasonable opportunity to conduct discovery and prepare for trial, or
(b) the other parties have not had a reasonable opportunity to conduct
discovery and prepare for trial in regard to the new party’s involvement in the
case; (6) a party’s excused inability to obtain essential testimony, documents,
or other material evidence despite diligent efforts; or (7) a significant,
unanticipated change in the status of the case as a result of which the case is
not ready for trial.  (Id.)
 
The court must also consider
such relevant factors as: (1) the proximity of the trial date; (2) whether
there was any previous continuance, extension of time, or delay of trial caused
by any party; (3) the length of the continuance requested; (4) the availability
of alternative means to address the problem that gave rise to the motion or
application for a continuance; (5) the prejudice that parties or witnesses will
suffer as a result of the continuance; (6) if the case is entitled to a
preferential trial setting, the reasons for that status and whether the need
for a continuance outweighs the need to avoid delay; (7) the court’s calendar
and the impact of granting a continuance on other pending trials; (8) whether
trial counsel is engaged in another trial; (9) whether all parties have
stipulated to a continuance; (10) whether the interests of justice are best
served by a continuance, by the trial of the matter, or by imposing conditions
on the continuance; and (11) any other fact or circumstance relevant to the
fair determination of the motion or application.  (CRC, r. 3.1332(d).) 
 
            The
Trial Motion seeks a trial continuance in order to allow Plaintiff to pursue
the new claim in the proposed SAC and to afford Plaintiff extra time to locate
witnesses who Plaintiff learned are no longer employed by Defendants.  (See Martirosyan Decl.
¶ 12.)  In light of the Court’s
discussion of the SAC Motion, the Court finds that Plaintiff has not presented
sufficient grounds to warrant the length of the trial extension requested by
the Trial Motion.  The Court finds
Plaintiff’s explanation for the need for ongoing discovery somewhat thin.  However, given the recent unavailability of
Defendants’ former employees, the Court finds it appropriate to give Plaintiff
additional time to notice and conduct depositions.  The Court therefore GRANTS the Trial Motion
and continues the trial to June 10, 2024 at 9:30 a.m. in this department.  All pre-trial deadlines are vacated and
continued to correspond with the new trial date.  
             
Moving party is ordered to give notice of this
ruling. 
 
 
 
Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must send an email to
the Court at SMC_DEPT56@lacourt.org as directed by the instructions provided on
the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department does not receive
an email and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion will be placed
off calendar. 
 
 
 
  Dated
this 16th day of February 2024
 



  






Hon. Holly J. Fujie 
Judge of the Superior Court 
 



 
 