 Case Number:  23STCV20494    Hearing Date:   February 16, 2024    Dept:  56  
 
 
 
 
 
 
SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



THATCHARNOK PICHITCHARTEE, 
 
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
 
LIFE STEPS FOUNDATION, INC., et al.,
 
                        Defendants.


 


     
  CASE NO.:  23STCV20494
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER RE: DEMURRER 
 
Date: 
  February 16, 2024
Time: 8:30 a.m.
Dept. 56
Judge: Holly J. Fujie
 



 
MOVING PARTY: Defendant Life Steps Foundation,
Inc. (“Moving Defendant”)
RESPONDING PARTY: Plaintiff 
 
The Court has considered the moving, opposition
and reply papers.
 
BACKGROUND
            This action arises
out of an employment relationship.  The
currently operative first amended complaint (the “FAC”) alleges: (1)
discrimination in violation of the Fair Employment and Housing Act (“FEHA”);
(2) failure to prevent discrimination under FEHA; (3) Labor Code section
1102.5; and (4) Labor Code section 98.6. 
 
In relevant part, the FAC alleges: Plaintiff was
employed in Moving Defendant’s accounting department.  (FAC ¶ 6.) 
Throughout his employment, Plaintiff was over 40 years old.  (FAC ¶ 8.)  After Plaintiff refused to conduct unlawful
accounting practices, Moving Defendant subjected Plaintiff to various
retaliatory actions that culminated in his termination.  (See FAC ¶¶ 9-11.)  Moving Defendant subjected Plaintiff to these
employment actions with knowledge of his age. 
(See id.)  Plaintiff filed
an administrative complaint and received a right-to-sue letter on August 25,
2023.  (FAC ¶ 18.)  Oddly, the Complaint gives no dates
whatsoever for Plaintiff’s employment or termination.
 
Moving Defendant filed a demurrer (the
“Demurrer”) on the grounds that the FAC fails to state sufficient facts to
constitute a cause of action and is uncertain. 

 
REQUEST FOR JUDICIAL NOTICE
            Moving
Defendant’s Request for Judicial Notice is GRANTED as to the existence of the
documents and the Court file in Thatcharnok Pichitchartee, Plaintiff v. Life
Steps Foundation, Inc. and Does 1 through 20, inclusive, Defendants, Case No.
21STCV16861 (the “2021 Lawsuit”), but not to the truth of the matters stated
therein.  (Fremont Indemnity Co. v.
Fremont General Corp. (2007) 148 Cal.App.4th 97, 113.)   
 
DISCUSSION
Meet and Confer
The meet and confer requirement has been met.
 


 
Legal Standard
A demurrer tests
the sufficiency of a complaint as a matter of law.  (Durell
v. Sharp Healthcare (2010) 183 Cal.App.4th 1350, 1358.)  The court accepts as true all material
factual allegations and affords them a liberal construction, but it does not
consider conclusions of fact or law, opinions, speculation, or allegations
contrary to law or judicially noticed facts. 
(Shea Homes Limited Partnership v.
County of Alameda (2003) 110 Cal.App.4th 1246, 1254.)  With respect to a demurrer, the complaint
must be construed liberally by drawing reasonable inferences from the facts
pleaded.  (Rodas v. Spiegel (2001) 87 Cal.App.4th 513, 517.)  A demurrer will be sustained without leave to
amend if there exists no reasonable possibility that the defect can be cured by
amendment.  (Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311, 318.)  
 
Demurrers for
uncertainty are disfavored.  (Chen v.
Berenjian (2019) 33 Cal.App.5th 811, 822.) 
A demurrer for uncertainty is strictly construed, even where a complaint
is in some respects uncertain, because ambiguities can be clarified under
modern discovery procedures.  (Id.)
 
 
Exhaustion of Administrative Remedies
Under FEHA, Plaintiffs have one year to file a
civil complaint after receiving a right-to-sue letter.  (See Gov. Code § 12965, subd.
(c)(1)(C).)  
 
Moving Defendant argues that Plaintiff’s claims
have expired because Plaintiff filed a lawsuit in 2021 that arises out of the
same conduct.  The Court is unable to
determine if the FAC’s claims are time-barred based on the existence of 2021
lawsuit; notably, neither pleading includes a copy of the underlying
right-to-sue letter.  (See RJN,
Exhibit 1)  In addition, Moving Defendant
provides no statutory authority for its argument that Plaintiff’s Labor Code
claims are barred based on Plaintiff’s FEHA right-to-sue letter.  The Court therefore finds that the FAC does
not demonstrate that Plaintiff’s claims are time-barred based upon the very
vague FAC. 
 
First Cause of Action
It is an unlawful
employment practice for an employer to refuse to hire or employ a person, to
discharge a person from employment, or to discriminate against the person in
compensation or in terms, conditions, or privileges of employment on the basis of
age.  (See Gov. Code § 12940,
subd. (a).)  
 
To establish a
claim for discrimination in violation of FEHA, the plaintiff must generally
prove that: (1) he or she was a member of a protected class; (2) he or she was
qualified for the position he or she sought or was performing competently in
the position he or she held; (3) he or she suffered an adverse employment
action, such as termination, demotion, or denial of an available job; and (4)
some other circumstance suggesting discriminatory motive.  (Guz v. Bechtel National, Inc. (2000)
24 Cal.4th 317, 355.)  


The Court finds
that the FAC does not clearly allege a causal link between Plaintiff’s age, the
adverse employment actions taken against him, and a discriminatory motive.  The Court therefore SUSTAINS the Demurrer to
the first cause of action with 20 days leave to amend. 
 


 
Second Cause of Action
It is an unlawful employment practice for an employer, labor
organization, employment agency, apprenticeship training program, or any
training program leading to employment, to fail to take all reasonable steps
necessary to prevent discrimination and harassment from occurring.  (Gov. Code § 12940, subd. (k).)  To establish this claim, a
plaintiff must establish the defendant’s legal duty of care, breach of duty,
legal causation, and damages to the plaintiff.  (See Trujillo v. North County
Transit District (1998) 63 Cal.App.4th 280, 286-87.)
 
            In
light of the Court’s determination of the legal insufficiency of the first
cause of action, the Court SUSTAINS the Demurrer to the second cause of action
with 20 days leave to amend. 
 
Third Cause of Action
Labor Code section
1102.5, subdivision (b) provides that an employer, or any person acting on
behalf of the employer, shall not retaliate against an employee for disclosing
information, or because the employer believes that the employee disclosed or
may disclose information, to a government or law enforcement agency, to a
person with authority over the employee or another employee who has the
authority to investigate, discover, or correct the violation or noncompliance,
or for providing information to, or testifying before, any public body
conducting an investigation, hearing, or inquiry, if the employee has
reasonable cause to believe that the information discloses a violation of state
or federal statute, or a violation of or noncompliance with a local, state, or
federal rule or regulation, regardless of whether disclosing the information is
part of the employee's job duties.  (Lab.
Code § 1102.5, subd. (b).)  Labor Code section 1102.5, subdivision
(c) provides that an employer, or any person acting on behalf of the employer,
shall not retaliate against an employee for refusing to participate in an
activity that would result in a violation of state or federal statute, or a
violation of or noncompliance with a local, state, or federal rule or
regulation.  (Lab. Code § 1102.5, subd.
(c).)  To establish a prima facie case of
retaliation, a plaintiff must show that: (1) she engaged in protected activity;
(2) that she was thereafter subjected to adverse employment action by her
employer; and (3) there was a causal link between the two.  (Morgan v. Regents of University of Cal. (2000)
88 Cal.App.4th 52, 69.)  Statutory causes of action must be alleged
with particularity.  (Lopez v.
Southern Cal. Rapid Transit Dist. (1985) 40 Cal.3d 780, 795.)  
 
            The FAC
does not clearly identify which provision or provisions of Labor Code section
1102.5 Moving Defendant allegedly violated; nor does the FAC sufficiently
allege the factual basis for the claim. 
The Court therefore SUSTAINS the Demurrer to the third cause of action
with 20 days leave to amend.  
 
Fourth Cause of Action
            Labor Code section 98.6, subdivision
(a) provides, in part: “A person shall not discharge an employee or in any
manner discriminate, retaliate, or take any adverse action against any employee
or applicant for employment because the employee or applicant engaged in any
conduct delineated in this chapter. . . or because the employee . . . made a
written or oral complaint that he or she is owed unpaid wages, . . . or because
of the exercise by the employee or applicant for employment on behalf of
himself, herself, or others of any rights afforded him or her.”  (Lab. Code
§ 98.6, subd. (a).)
 
            The FAC does not sufficiently allege
the basis for the Labor Code section 98.6 claim.  The Court therefore SUSTAINS the Demurrer to
the fourth cause of action with 20 days leave to amend.  
 
            The Charge(s) and the Right-To-Sue
Letter(s)
            As the Court noted above, the FAC
alleges that “Plaintiff filed a charge stating the aforementioned claims with
the Cal Civil Rights Agency on August 25, 2023, and received a right-to-sue
letter on August 25, 2023” [FAC, para. 18] but does not attach a copy of the
purported charge or right-to-sue letter. 
Meanwhile, the complaint in the 2021 Lawsuit, which is based upon the
same claims as the instant lawsuit, alleges that Plaintiff had been wrongfully
discharged by Defendants. (Complaint in the 2021 Lawsuit, Third Cause of Action.)[1]  Based upon this pleading, the Court assumes
that Plaintiff was terminated from his employment with Defendant before the
Complaint in the 2021 Lawsuit was filed on May 5, 2021.  
 
Because the facts underlying this claim have implications for the statute
of limitations issue and raise concerns about the validity of these apparently re-filed
claims, the Court orders that if Plaintiff chooses to amend this pleading, a
copy of the referenced charge(s) and right-to-sue letter(s) from DFEH and the
CRA both be attached to and incorporated into the amended pleading, and that
the amended pleading specify Plaintiff’s employment and termination dates.
 
Moving party is ordered to give
notice of this ruling. 
 
Parties who intend to submit on this tentative
must send an email to the Court at SMC_DEPT56@lacourt.org as directed by the
instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the
department does not receive an email and there are no appearances at the
hearing, the motion will be placed off calendar. 
 
 
  Dated
this 16th day of February 2024
 



  






Hon. Holly J. Fujie
Judge of the Superior Court
 





