 Case Number:  22STCV38729    Hearing Date:   February 16, 2024    Dept:  56  
 
 
SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL
DISTRICT
 



LEOBARDO SEGURA-MEZA, et al.,
                        Plaintiffs,
            vs.
 
AGOURA
  HILLS MARBLE AND GRANITE, INC., et al.,
  
                                                                             
  
                        Defendants.                               


 


      CASE NO.: 22STCV38729
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: MOTION TO STRIKE
 
Date:  February 16, 2024
Time:
  8:30 a.m. 
Dept.
  56
 



AND RELATED CROSS-ACTIONS
 
MOVING PARTY: Defendant Dal-Tile
Distribution, LLC (“Moving Defendant”)
 
RESPONDING PARTY: Plaintiffs
 
The Court has considered the moving,
opposition and reply papers.   
 
BACKGROUND
The currently operative second amended
complaint (the “SAC”), filed on November 21, 2023, alleges: (1) negligence; (2)
strict liability – warning defect; (3) strict liability – design defect; (4)
fraudulent concealment; (5) breach of implied warranties; and (6) loss of
consortium.
 
 
On December 8, 2023, Moving Defendant filed a
motion to strike portions of the SAC (the “Motion”).  
 
DISCUSSION
Meet and Confer
The meet and confer requirement has been met.

 
Legal Standard
Under California Code
of Civil Procedure (“CCP”) section 436, the court may, upon a motion made
pursuant to CCP section 435, or at any time in its discretion, and upon terms
it deems proper: (1) strike out any irrelevant, false or improper matter
inserted in any pleading; or (2) strike out any pleading or part thereof not
drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of this state, a court rule or order
of court.  (CCP § 436, subds. (a)-(b).) 
The grounds for a motion to strike shall appear on the face of the
challenged pleading or from any matter of which the court is required to take
judicial notice.  (CCP § 437, subd. (a).)  The allegations of the complaint are presumed
true; they are read as a whole and in context. 
(Clauson v. Superior Court (1998) 67 Cal.App.4th 1253,
1255.)  A motion to strike should not be
a procedural “line item veto” for the civil defendant.  (PH II, Inc. v. Superior Court (1995)
33 Cal.App.4th 1680, 1683.)  Pleadings are to be construed liberally with
a view to substantial justice.  (CCP §
452.)
 
 
 
“And Other Crystalline-Silica Containing
Products”
            Pages
31-32 of the SAC list the products manufactured by Moving Defendant to which
Plaintiffs were allegedly exposed.  The
last item on the list states: “And other stone products to be identified during
the course of discovery.”  (SAC p. 32:4.)
 Moving Defendant argues that this allegation
is not pled in accordance with Bockrath v. Adlrich Chemical Company, Inc.
(1999) 21 Cal.4th 71 (“Bockrath”). Bockrath addressed the
pleading standard for products liability complaints and holds that plaintiffs
in toxic injury cases are required to plead specific facts regarding causation
of the injuries because of “complicated and possibly esoteric medical causation
issues.”  (Id. at 79.)  The Bockrath court noted that “the law
cannot tolerate lawsuits by prospecting plaintiffs who sue multiple defendants
on speculation that their products may have caused harm over time through
exposure to toxins in them, and who thereafter try to learn through discovery
whether their speculation is well founded."  (Id.)  The Bockrath court
also held that plaintiffs may, and should, allege the foregoing facts
succinctly, and may do so in a conclusory fashion if their knowledge of the
precise cause of injury is limited.  (Id.
at 80.)  If the plaintiff does not
believe the requisite evidence exists but does actually believe that it is
likely to be discovered later, after a reasonable opportunity for further
investigation or discovery, the complaint must so state.  (See id. at 82.)
 
Moving Defendant argues that Bockrath
requires plaintiffs to plead each product that allegedly caused their injuries.  (Id. at 80.)  The Court is not persuaded by this
argument.  The SAC identifies known
products containing silica that caused Plaintiffs’ alleged injuries, and the
catch-all allegation notes the possibility of exposure to additional
silica-containing products manufactured by Moving Defendant about which
Plaintiffs do not currently have knowledge. 
The Court finds that the level of detail in the SAC is consistent with
the requirements of Bockrath and therefore DENIES the Motion as to this
allegation. 
 
Other Allegations
            The opposition
papers do not include arguments that respond to the Motion’s arguments
regarding the allegations in Paragraphs 465 and 466 of the SAC, and the Court
finds that Plaintiffs have conceded this argument to Moving Defendant.  (See
Nelson v. Pearson Ford Co. (2010) 186 Cal.App.4th 983,
1021.)  The Court therefore GRANTS the
Motion as to Paragraphs 465 and 466 without leave to amend.  
 
Moving party is ordered to give
notice of this ruling.
 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at SMC_DEPT56@lacourt.org as directed
by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department does not receive an email
and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion will be placed off
calendar.
 
 
        Dated
this 16th day of February 2024
 



 


 




 


Hon. Holly J. Fujie
Judge of the Superior Court
 



 