 Case Number:  23VECV05696    Hearing Date:   May 22, 2024    Dept:  W ANA
MARIA SERNA CHAVEZ, ET AL. VS CITY OF LOS ANGELES, ET AL.
 
DEFENDANT ALYAZEED MOAWYA DOBI’S MOTION TO SET ASIDE DEFAULT

 
Date of Hearing:        May
22, 2024                                                 Trial
Date:       None set.
Department:              W                                                                    Case
No.:        23VECV05696
 
Moving Party:            Defendant
Alyazeed Moawya Dobi 
Responding Party:     Plaintiffs
Ana Maria Serna Chavez and Estate of Noe Antonio Lopez 
 
BACKGROUND
 
On December 26, 1023, Plaintiffs Ana Maria Serna Chavez and
Estate of Noe Antonio Lopez filed a complaint against Defendant City of Los
Angeles and Alyazeed Moawya Dobi. Plaintiff alleges Defendant Dobi collided
with his vehicle into Decedent Noe Antonio Lopez, a pedestrian. After the
collision, Defendant Dobi and other witnesses called for an ambulance.
Plaintiff alleges LAPD and paramedics assumed the duty of providing reasonable assistance
to the injured party, and also represented that they were investigating and
looking for the injured party. Unfortunately, no investigation was done, no
report was made, and no search was conducted by Defendant City of Los Angeles
personnel. The following day, Decedent Noe Antonio Lopez was found dead near
the location of the subject incident.
 
Request for entry of default against Defendant Alyazeed
Moawya Dobi was entered April 5, 2024. 
 
[TENTATIVE] RULING:
 
Defendant Alyazeed Moawya Dobi’s Motion to Set Aside Default
is GRANTED. 
 
DISCUSSION
 
Defendant Alyazeed Moawya Dobi moves the court for an order
requested that the default against him be set aside on the grounds of mistake
and/or excusable neglect under Code of Civil Procedure section 473(b). 
 
Relief under Code of Civil Procedure section 473(b) is
either discretionary or mandatory. A motion for mandatory relief must be made
no more than six months after entry of judgment and be accompanied by an
attorney’s sworn affidavit attesting to the attorney’s “mistake, inadvertence,
surprise or neglect.” (CCP § 473(b).) The attorney affidavit of fault must
contain a “straight forward admission of fault.” (State Farm Fire &
Casualty Co. v. Pietak¿(2001) 90 Cal.App.4th 600, 610.) But it need not
contain an explanation of the reasons for the attorney’s mistake, inadvertence
surprise or neglect. (Martin Potts & Assocs., Inc. v. Corsair, LLC (2016)
244 Cal.App.4th 432, 438-441.) 
 
Relief must be granted “unless the court finds that the
default or dismissal was not in fact caused by the attorney's mistake,
inadvertence, surprise, or neglect.” (Ibid.) If mandatory relief is
granted, the court must¿“direct the attorney to pay reasonable compensatory
legal fees and costs” to the opposing counsel or parties. (CCP § 473(b).) 
 
Where a party cannot obtain an attorney affidavit of fault,
the party may seek discretionary relief under section 473(b) due to “mistake,
inadvertence, surprise, or excusable neglect.” (CCP § 473(b).) A motion for
discretionary relief must be made “within a reasonable time but in no instance
exceeding six months after the judgment, dismissal, order, or proceeding was
taken.” (Id.) If discretionary relief is granted, the court may in its
discretion order the moving party to pay the costs, including attorney fees,
incurred in obtaining the default. (Rogalski v. Nabers Cadillac¿(1992)
11 Cal.App.4th 816, 823;¿Vanderkous v. Conley¿(2010) 188 Cal.App.4th
111, 118-119.) If the motion for discretionary relief is granted, the court may
order the offending attorney to pay monetary sanctions up to $1,000 to opposing
parties, or up to $1,000 to the State Bar Client Security Fund, or “[g]rant
other relief as is appropriate.” (CCP § 473(c)(1)(A), (B), (C).) 
 
A motion for relief under section 473(b) “shall be
accompanied by a copy of the answer or other pleading proposed to be filed
therein, otherwise the application shall not be granted. . .” (CCP § 473(b).)
However, this requirement is not jurisdictional; substantial compliance may
suffice. (Carmel, Ltd. v. Tavoussi¿(2009) 175 Cal.App.4th 393, 403
[finding substantial compliance where counsel offered proposed answer at
motion¿hearing¿rather than serving it with moving papers].)¿ 
 
Defendant Dobi argues Defendant’s failure to timely file
responsive pleadings resulted purely from Defense counsel’s failure to calendar
a deadline, as opposed to Defendant’s desire to avoid or delay trial.  (Johnstone Decl. ¶9.) If not for the
calendaring error, Defendant would have timely filed a responsive pleading.
(Johnstone Decl. ¶9.) Defendant was served via substituted service on February
28, 2024. On March 10, 2024, Counsel was retained to defend Defendant.
(Johnstone ¶4.) However, mistakenly, the deadline to file responsive pleadings
was not calendared and thus, defense failed to timely respond, leading to
Plaintiff’s request for entry of default against Defendant. (Johnstone Decl.
¶6.) Defense counsel was also calling Plaintiff’s counsel to discuss a possible
settlement, and after engaging in settlement negotiations, Plaintiff informed
Defense counsel they were still considering whether to accept the offer.
(Johnstone Decl. ¶¶10, 11.) However, on April 8, 2024, Defendant informed that
he was served Plaintiffs request for entry of default. (Johnstone Decl. ¶12.) 
 
In opposition, Plaintiff argues Defendant’s failure to
timely file an answer is not an excusable mistake. Defendant's knowledge of the
complaint and deadline to file an answer is evidenced by a call between Straus
Meyers, LLP and Plaintiff on March 21, 2024. Plaintiff should not bear the
consequences of Defendant’s oversight or delay in fulfilling this obligation,
especially when such actions fall within the Defendant's sphere of
responsibility. Moreover, Defendant failed to include with his notice to set
aside the default a copy of the responsive pleading proposed to be filed in
this action. 
 
The court GRANTS Defendant’s motion to set aside default.
Defendant seeks relief pursuant to the mandatory provision of Code of
Civil Procedure section 473(b). Additionally, the motion is timely. The motion
was made one week after request for entry of default was entered. Defendant did
not provide a copy of the proposed answer; however, as noted above, substantial
compliance may suffice. (Carmel, Ltd. v. Tavoussi¿(2009) 175 Cal.App.4th
393, 403 [finding substantial compliance where counsel offered proposed answer
at motion¿hearing¿rather than serving it with moving papers].)¿As such,
Defendant is ordered to provide a copy of the proposed answer at the hearing on
this motion. 
 
Accordingly, Defendant’s Motion to Set Aside Default is
GRANTED pursuant to Defendant’s production of the proposed answer. 
 
 