  Case Number:  23AVCV00238    Hearing Date:   May 22, 2024    Dept:  W CRYSTAL
CLAYTONIA KARGES, et al. v. JOENDELL G. ABNER
 
defendant’s MOTION TO COMPEL
PLAINTIFFS’ FURTHER RESPONSES TO REQUESTS FOR PRODUCTION OF DOCUMENTS (SET ONE)
 
Date of Hearing:        May
22, 2024                        Trial
Date:       March
3, 2025 
Department:              W                                            Case
No.:        23AVCV00238
 
Moving Party:            Defendant
Joendell G. Abner 
Responding Party:     Plaintiffs
Crystal Claytonia Karges, individually and as the administrator of the estate
of Farris Emile Tarazi, Farris Emile Tarazi, Jr., and Nadia Nalani Sheridan 
Meet and Confer:      Yes.
(Kerr Decl. ¶¶5-7.) 
 
BACKGROUND
 
On March 1, 2023, Plaintiffs Crystal
Claytonia Karges, individually and as the administrator of the estate of Farris
Emile Tarazi, Farris Emile Tarazi, Jr., and Nadia Nalani Sheridan filed a
complaint against Defendant Joendell G. Abner for wrongful death – negligence
and survivor claims. Plaintiffs allege Decedent Farris Emile Tarazi was making
a left turn when Defendant Joendell G. Abner, going southbound and driving his vehicle
upwards of 100 mph, caused his vehicle to collide with Decedent’s vehicle.
Defendant was engaged in a street race with another vehicle immediately prior
to the collision. The force of the collision fatally injured Decedent.   
 
[Tentative] Ruling
 
Defendant Joendell G. Abner’s Motion to
Compel Plaintiff’s Further Responses to Requests for Production of Documents
(Set One) is GRANTED. 
 
DISCUSSION
 
Defendant Joendell G. Abner moves the
court for an order compelling Plaintiffs to provide further responses to the
requests for production, Set One. Defendant also moves the court for an order
that Plaintiffs and their counsel pay Defendant the sum of $3,760.00 for
reasonable attorney fees incurred in connection with making this motion. 
 
Under Code of Civil Procedure section
2031.310, on receipt of a response to a demand for inspection, copying,
testing, or sampling, the demanding party may move for an order compelling
further response to the demand if the demanding party deems that any of the
following apply: (1) A statement of compliance with the demand is incomplete.
(2) A representation of inability to comply is inadequate, incomplete, or
evasive. (3) An objection in the response is without merit or too general.
 
Defendant requested Plaintiffs produce (1)
all documents related to any communications between plaintiffs and Defendant’s
insurance carrier regarding the allegations in plaintiffs’ complaint; and (2)
all documents related to any communications between plaintiffs and Defendant’s
insurance carrier regarding the incident. 
 
RPD 31 & 33 to Plaintiffs Crystal
Claytonia Karges, Farris Emile Tarazi, Jr., and Nadia Nalani Sheridan
 
Defendants request for production of
documents No. 31: All DOCUMENTS related to any COMMUNICATIONS between YOU and
defendant Joendell Abner's insurance carrier regarding the allegations in YOUR
COMPLAINT.
 
Defendant request for production of
documents No. 33: All DOCUMENTS related to any COMMUNICATIONS between YOU and
defendant Joendell Abner's insurance carrier regarding the INCIDENT. 
 
Defendant contends there is good cause
to produce the requested documents as any communications between Plaintiffs’
and Defendant’s insurance carrier regarding Plaintiffs’ allegations would
contain information regarding Plaintiffs’ claims, the incident, and/or Plaintiffs’
alleged damages. Moreover, Plaintiffs have not produced the alleged policy
limit demand they contend they have sent. The alleged policy limit demand will also
assist Defendant in evaluating the potential exposure in this case.
 
Defendant argues Plaintiffs Crystal Claytonia
Karges, Farris Emile Tarazi, Jr., and Nadia Nalani Sheridan’s objections
regarding relevancy and admissibility lack merit. This document request is not
vague, ambiguous, overbroad, or compound, so all those objections are
unmeritorious. The document request does not seek attorney-client
communications or attorney work-product, does not call for speculation, and
does not call for premature disclosure of expert opinion, so all those
objections are unfounded too. In addition, there is no invasion of Plaintiffs’
privacy regarding such information because Plaintiffs’ communications with a
third party waive any privacy rights.
 
In opposition, Plaintiff argues none of
the communications Defendant now seeks are relevant to any of Plaintiffs’
claims or Defendant’s affirmative defenses. Instead, Defendant’s requests for
documents pertaining to pre-litigation discussions made between Plaintiffs and
USAA relate to a possible bad faith claim against USAA. The requested documents
are also inadmissible at the time of trial. Moreover, Defendant insists the requested
communications are relevant yet at the same time objects that the information
in USAA’s claims file is irrelevant. Defendant has even refused to produce the
actual insurance policy in this case on the basis that it is irrelevant.
Defendant cannot have it both ways. Either way, Plaintiffs agreed to enter into
a stipulation with Defendant in which Plaintiffs would produce all
communications between Plaintiffs and USAA provided Defendant produces a
complete copy of the USAA claims file up to the time the litigation was filed.
 
The court finds good cause for further
responses to RPD Nos. 31 and 33. Plaintiffs’ communications with USAA are
relevant as such documents may contain information regarding Plaintiff’s
allegations, the incident, and/or Plaintiff’s alleged damages. For example,
plaintiff might have sent photographs of the incident or their injuries to the
insurance company, which are no longer available or have been withheld by
plaintiff in this case.   The standard is
not whether the requested documents are admissible at trial but whether the
requested documents will lead to discovery of admissible evidence. If Plaintiff
wishes Defendants to produce USAA’s entire claim file, Plaintiff must bring
their own motion for further responses.  
 
Accordingly, the court grants
Defendant’s motion to compel further responses to RPD Nos. 31 and 33 with the
limitation that a true settlement proposal or counter between plaintiff and the
insurance company need not be produced as such communications are
confidential.  Documents with evidentiary
value (e.g., photos, medical records, witness statements, statement of the
plaintiff) attached to any such proposal or counter proposal must be
produced.  
 
RPD 32 & 34 to Plaintiff Estate of Farris
Emile Tarazi
 
Defendant request for production of
documents No. 32: All DOCUMENTS related to any COMMUNICATIONS between YOU and
defendant Joendell Abner's insurance carrier regarding the allegations in YOUR
COMPLAINT.
 
Defendant request for production of
documents No. 34: All DOCUMENTS related to any COMMUNICATIONS between YOU and
defendant Joendell Abner's insurance carrier regarding the INCIDENT.
 
Both parties make the same arguments as
RPD 31 and 33. 
 
As a result, the court grants
Defendant’s motion to compel further responses to RPD Nos. 32 and 34. 
 
Sanctions 
 
Code of Civil Procedure section
2031.310(h) provides for mandatory monetary sanctions “against any party,
person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel
further response to a demand, unless it finds that the one subject to the
sanction acted with substantial justification or that other circumstances make
the imposition of the sanction unjust.” 
(CCP § 2031.310(h).)   
 
Defendant requests $3,760 in reasonable
attorney fees against Plaintiffs and their counsel. The court declines to
impose sanctions against Plaintiffs at this time as both parties’ positions
were substantially justified.  