 Case Number:  22STCV22174    Hearing Date:   September 26, 2023    Dept:  50 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
Department
50
 
 
 



TENANT MIKE HARSINI, 
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
SOUTH BAY PROPERTY MANAGEMENT
  INC., et al.,
                        Defendants.


Case No.:


22STCV22174




Hearing Date:


September 26, 2023




Hearing
  Time:    2:00 p.m. 
 
TENTATIVE RULING
  RE:  
 
MOTION FOR
  SUMMARY JUDGMENT 



 
 
 
Background
On July 11, 2022, Plaintiff “Tenant Mike Harsini” filed this action
against Defendants South Bay Property Management Inc. and “Agents: Wanda Rafael.”

On January 31, 2023, Mike Harsini (“Plaintiff”) filed the operative
“Amended Complain [sic] on OSC” (herein, the “Amended Complaint”). The Amended Complaint
appears to allege causes of action for (1) “Order to Show Cause,” (2) “breach
a [sic] of the express term of a covenant of quiet enjoyment to
operate business daily & successfully,” and (3) “breach of lease contract.”

In the Amended Complaint, Plaintiff alleges, inter alia,
that he “seeks an order granting a judgment in favor of the Plaintiff and
against Defendant South Bay Property Management for its failure to act within
Thirty Days To Remedy and Stop this Noxious Toxic Fumes of ‘Sulfate Carbon
Monoxide vapor’ from entering into my office air space through the Ceiling
Vents during the past Seven years 24/7.” (Amended Complaint, p. 2:5-7.) 
On August 14, 2023, Plaintiff filed the instant motion captioned
“notice of motion for summary judgment, and undisputed material facts in
support of motion for summary judgment CCP § 437c.”
The motion is unopposed. 
Legal
Standard
“[A] motion for summary
judgment shall be granted if all the papers submitted show that there is no
triable issue as to any material fact and that the moving party is entitled to
a judgment as a matter of law.” (Code Civ.
Proc., § 437c, subd. (c).) “A party may move for summary judgment in an action or
proceeding if it is contended that the action has no merit or that there is no
defense to the action or proceeding.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c,
subd. (a)(1).) 
The moving party bears
the initial burden of production to make a prima facie showing that there are no triable issues of material
fact. (Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 850.) If the moving party carries this burden, the burden shifts to the
opposing party to make a prima facie showing that a triable issue of material
fact exists. (Ibid.) Courts “liberally construe the evidence in support of the party
opposing summary judgment and resolve doubts concerning the evidence in favor
of that party.” (Dore v. Arnold Worldwide,
Inc. (2006) 39 Cal.4th 384, 389.) For purposes of motions for summary judgment and summary adjudication, a
plaintiff “has met his or her burden of showing that there is no defense to a
cause of action if that party has proved each element of the cause of action
entitling the party to judgment on the cause of
action.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (p)(1).)
Discussion

As
an initial matter, the Court notes that Plaintiff filed a proof of service on
August 14, 2023 indicating that “Plaintiff Mike Harsini’s Motion for Summary
Judgment” was served on “Wanda Rafael & Her Attorney T. Spivey” on August
14, 2023. Pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 437c,
subdivision (a)(2), “[n]otice of
the motion and supporting papers shall be served on all other parties to the
action at least 75 days before the time appointed for hearing. If the notice is
served by mail, the required 75-day period of notice shall be increased by 5
days if the place of address is within the State of California…” The Court
notes that 75 days prior to the September 26, 2023 hearing on the instant
motion is July 13, 2023. Thus, Plaintiff did not timely serve the instant
motion under Code of Civil Procedure section 437c, subdivision (a)(2). 
            The
Court also notes that pursuant to Code of Civil
Procedure section 437c, subdivision (b)(1), “[t]he motion shall be
supported by affidavits, declarations, admissions, answers to interrogatories,
depositions, and matters of which judicial notice shall or may be taken. The
supporting papers shall include a separate statement setting forth
plainly and concisely all material facts that the moving party contends are
undisputed. Each of the material facts stated shall be followed by a reference
to the supporting evidence. The failure to comply with this requirement of a
separate statement may in the court’s discretion constitute a sufficient ground
for denying the motion.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c,
subd. (b)(1), emphasis added.) The Court notes that Plaintiff’s motion does
not include any separate statement. 
Further,
the motion does not demonstrate how “there is no defense to the action or proceeding.” (Code
Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (a)(1).) As set forth above, “[a] plaintiff or
cross-complainant has met his or her burden of showing that there is no defense
to a cause of action if that party has proved each element of the cause of
action entitling the party to judgment on the cause of action.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (p)(1).) The instant
motion does not appear to discuss the elements of any specific cause of action
contained in the Amended Complaint. In addition, the motion contains no legal
authority setting forth the elements of any cause of action. 
Conclusion
Based on the foregoing, Plaintiff’s motion is denied.  
Plaintiff is ordered to provide
notice of this order.  
 
DATED:  September 26, 2023                       ________________________________
Hon. Rolf M.
Treu
Judge, Los
Angeles Superior Court
 