  Case Number:  21SMCV01850    Hearing Date:   April 30, 2024    Dept:  207 TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPARTMENT


207




HEARING DATE


March
  19, 2024




CASE NUMBER


21SMCV01850




MOTION


Motion
  for Attorneys’ Fees




MOVING PARTY


Plaintiff
  Innerspin Marketing, LLC




OPPOSING PARTY


Defendant
  Consequent Capital Management



 
MOTION
 
On January 30, 2024, following a jury trial, the Court entered
judgment in favor of Plaintiff Innerspin Marketing, LLC (“Plaintiff” or
“Innerspin”) and against Defendant Consequent Capital Management, LLC (“Defendant,”
“CCM,” or “Consequent”) in “the sum of $448,000.00, with prejudgment interest,
costs and attorneys’ fees in amounts to be determined through post-trial
proceedings.”  (January 30, 2024
Judgment.)  
 
Plaintiff now moves to recover $89,800 in attorneys’ fees pursuant to
Code of Civil Procedure section 2033.420 based on Defendant’s failure to admit
that it owed Plaintiff $448,000 in response to Plaintiff’s requests for
admission (“RFA”).  Defendant opposes the
Motion and Plaintiff replies.
 
LEGAL
STANDARDS
 
            Code of Civil Procedure section
2033.420 provides:
 
(a) If a party fails to admit the genuineness of any document or the
truth of any matter when requested to do so under this chapter, and if the
party requesting that admission thereafter proves the genuineness of that document
or the truth of that matter, the party requesting the admission may move the
court for an order requiring the party to whom the request was directed to pay
the reasonable expenses incurred in making that proof, including reasonable
attorney's fees.
 
(b) The court shall make this order unless it finds any of the
following:
 
(1) An objection to the request was sustained or a response to it was
waived under Section 2033.290.
 
(2) The admission sought was of no substantial importance.
 
(3) The party failing to make the admission had reasonable ground to
believe that that party would prevail on the matter.
 
(4) There was other good reason for the failure to admit.            
 
In Brooks v. American Broadcasting Co., the appellate court
outlined a non-exhaustive list of important factors to consider in determining
whether the party’s denial of an RFA was reasonable.  
 
“[I]f a party denies a request for admission (of substantial
importance) in circumstances where the party lacked personal knowledge but had
available sources of information and failed to make a reasonable investigation
to ascertain the facts, such failure will justify an award of expenses”  (Brooks v.
American Broadcasting Co. (1986) 179 Cal.App.3d 500, 510 (hereafter Brooks).)  
 
“The degree to which the party making the denial has attempted in good
faith to reach a reasonable resolution of the matters involved is also an
appropriate factor to be weighed. For example, in at least two federal cases
the parties making denials of requests for admission had offered to stipulate
to the matters requested under reasonable conditions, but the parties
propounding the requests had refused the proffered stipulations. In those
circumstances, it was later held that there had been good reasons for the
denials.”  (Brooks,
supra, 179 Cal.App.3d at p. 510.) 


 
“Sometimes a party justifiably denies a request for admission based
upon the information available at the time of the denial, but later learns of
additional facts or acquires information which would have called for the
request to be admitted if the information had been known at the time of the
denial. If such a party thereafter advises the party that propounded the
request for admission that the denial was in error or should be modified, a
court should consider this factor in assessing whether there were no good
reasons for the denial.”  (Brooks,
supra, 179 Cal.App.3d at p. 510.) 

 
“Finally, in considering this issue, a court may properly consider
whether at the time the denial was made the party making the denial held a
reasonably entertained good faith belief that the party would prevail on the
issue at trial.”  (Brooks, supra,
179 Cal.App.3d at p. 511.)
 
In Orange County Water Dist. v. The Arnold Engineering Co., the
appellate court further elaborated on what constitutes a good faith belief that
a party will prevail.
 
“A party's reasonable belief must be grounded in the evidence; it
cannot be based merely on ‘hope or a roll of the dice.’ ”  (Orange County Water Dist. v. The Arnold
Engineering Co. (2018) 31 Cal.App.5th 96, 116 (hereafter Orange County).)  “It is also not enough for a party making the
denial to ‘hotly contest’ the issue; instead, there must be some reasonable
basis for contesting the issue in question before sanctions can be avoided.”  (Ibid.)  “Indeed, “the mere fact [that a party]
presented evidence at trial is not an automatic justification for denial of the
requests. Rather, the issue is whether, in light of that evidence, [the party]
could reasonably believe they would prevail.” 
(Ibid.)
 
“On the other hand, ‘[e]xpenses of proving disputed facts which an
opposing party denies in response to a request for admission are not
recoverable simply because the party promulgating the request prevails at
trial.’”  (Orange County, supra,
31 Cal.App.5th at p. 116 (quoting Brooks, supra, 179 Cal.App.3d
at p. 513).)
 
In Stull v. Sparrow (2001) 92 Cal.App.4th 860 and in Wimberly
v. Derby Cycle Corp. (1997) 56 Cal.App.4th 618, costs were not awarded
because the denying party conceded the issue prior to trial, obviating the need
to prove the issue at trial.  It did not
matter that the propounding party expended fees to prepare the issue for trial,
because the parties did not actually have to try the subject issue.
 
ANALYSIS
            
Defendant denied the following requests for admission:
 
70.  Admit in March 2021 John C.
Robinson [Defendant CCM’s CEO] confirmed DEFENDANT CCM owes money to PLAINTIFF.
 
71.  Admit DEFENDANT CCM did not
pay PLAINTIFF for all of the services PLAINTIFF provided to DEFENDANT CCM.
 
74.  Admit DEFENDANT CCM owes
PLAINTIFF $448,000.00.
 
75.  Admit DEFENDANT CCM owes
money to PLAINTIFF.
 
76.  Admit DEFENDANT CCM owes
PLAINTIFF $448,000.00, based upon an account stated.
 
77.  Admit DEFENDANT CCM owes
PLAINTIFF $448,000.00 based upon an open book account.
 
79.  Admit DEFENDANT CCM owes
PLAINTIFF $448,000.00 for services provided by PLAINTIFF to DEFENDANT CCM.
 
(Ex.
B-C to Carter Decl.)
 
            Plaintiff contends these denials
were unreasonable because Defendant never contested the work Plaintiff did or
the invoices Plaintiff sent, and in a March 10, 2021 email, John Robinson,
Defendant’s Chief Executive Officer, indicated, “Based upon the reconciliation
of invoices and payments, I reviewed and the amount owed to Innerspin marketing
is correct.  I will forward the
information to our accounting firm to adjust QuickBooks.  Thank you for assisting us as we transition
to the new QuickBooks.”  (Ex. A to Carter
Decl.)
 
            Defendant argues it had reasonable
grounds to deny that it owed those amounts because (1) the Robinson email
referred to the fact “that the math of amounts paid and unpaid under the
invoices added up to $448,000” but was not a promise to pay that amount; (2)
Defendant previously objected to paying a $20,000 flat fee per month and
ultimately agreed to a contract “for period 08/01/18 to 09/01/18 only” (Ex C-D
to Lilly Decl.), which resulted in Plaintiff dismissing its breach of contract
claim; and (3) Defendant had reasonable grounds to deny it owed Plaintiff because
of its affirmative defense of unclean hands based on Elcid Choi acting as both
the president of Plaintiff and an influential member of Defendant’s board of
managers (Exhibit K to Lilly Decl.) and its crossclaim for fraudulent
inducement, based on Innerspin’s alleged misrepresentation that it was able to
provide IT services in order to get Defendant’s business (Ex. L to Lilly
Decl.)  Defendant also presented evidence
at trial that Plaintiff failed to provide Defendant adequate IT services, and
Defendant had to hire a replacement IT services vendor.  (Exhibit I to Lilly Decl.)
 
Although Defendant denied that it owed Plaintiff the outstanding
invoice balance, and Plaintiff was forced to litigate the issue at trial, this
is not a situation where Defendant failed to conduct a reasonable investigation
into the facts underlying its position, or otherwise denied the issues without
a reasonable factual basis, and then failed to introduce any evidence on the
topic at trial, forcing Plaintiff to expend unnecessary fees presenting its
case on an issue that should have been resolved through admissions.  
 
Rather, Defendant genuinely disputed that it owed Plaintiff any of the
outstanding balance on the invoices and presented evidence at trial of its
limited agreement to the contract for one month only, that it contested the
quality and value of the IT services Plaintiff provided, and that Mr. Choi’s
dual roles at Innerspin and Consequent and strong influence at Consequent cast
a shadow over the legitimacy of the parties’ transactions.  
 
And although Plaintiff ultimately prevailed at trial, the Court does
not find that Defendant lacked a good faith evidentiary basis upon which to
base its denials.  The issue of whether
and to what extent Defendant owed Plaintiff any of the outstanding balance on
the invoices was a genuinely disputed central issue, for which both parties
reasonably presented evidence at trial.
 
Therefore, under these circumstances, the Court finds Plaintiff is not
entitled to recover its attorneys’ fees pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure
section 2033.420.
 
CONCLUSION
 
            For the foregoing
reasons, the Court denies Plaintiff’s motion for attorneys’ fees per Code
of Civil Procedure section 2033.420.  
 
            Plaintiff shall provide
notice of the Court’s ruling and file a proof of service of such.
 
 
DATED:  April 30, 2024                                                        ___________________________
                                                                                          Michael
E. Whitaker
                                                                                          Judge
of the Superior Court
 
 