 Case Number:  22SMCV00213    Hearing Date:   April 30, 2024    Dept:  207 TENTATIVE RULING 
 



DEPARTMENT


207




HEARING DATE


April 30, 2024




CASE NUMBER


22SMCV00213




MOTION


Transfer Venue




MOVING PARTY


Plaintiff Bank of America, N.A.




OPPOSING PARTY


none



 
MOTION
 
On February 14, 2022, Plaintiff Bank of America, N.A. (“Plaintiff”) filed
the complaint against Defendant Altan Onon (“Defendant”), for common counts,
stemming from Defendant’s alleged failure to repay a credit balance of
$60,596.86.  The Complaint alleges
Defendant resides in Marina Del Rey, but Plaintiff has since discovered that
Defendant lives within Marin County, and now moves to transfer venue to Marin
County.  Plaintiff’s motion is
unopposed.  
 
LEGAL
STANDARD
 
            “Except as otherwise provided by law
and subject to the power of the court to transfer actions or proceedings as
provided in this title, the superior court in the county where the defendants
or some of them reside at the commencement of the action is the proper court
for the trial of the action.”  (Code Civ.
Proc., § 395, subd. (a).)
 
            “Subject to the power of the court
to transfer actions or proceedings as provided in this title, in an action
arising from an offer or provision of goods, services, loans or extensions of
credit intended primarily for personal, family or household use, other than an
obligation described in Section 1812.10 or Section 2984.4 of the Civil Code […]
the superior court in the county where the buyer or lessee in fact signed the
contract, where the buyer or lessee resided at the time the contract was
entered into, or where the buyer or lessee resides at the commencement of the
action is the proper court for the trial of the action.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 395, subd. (b).)
 
            “If it appears from the complaint or
affidavit, or otherwise, that the superior court or court location where the
action or proceeding is commenced is not the proper court or court location for
the trial, the court where the action or proceeding is commenced, or a judge
thereof, shall, whenever that fact appears, transfer it to the proper court or
court location, on its own motion, or on motion of the defendant, unless the
defendant consents in writing, or in open court (consent in open court being
entered in the minutes of the court), to the keeping of the action or
proceeding in the court or court location where commenced. If that consent is
given, the action or proceeding may continue in the court or court location
where commenced.”  (Code Civ. Proc., §
396a, subd. (b).)
 
            The court may, on motion, change the
place of trial in the following cases:
 
(a) When the court designated in the complaint is
not the proper court.
(b) When there is reason to believe that an
impartial trial cannot be had therein.
(c) When the convenience of witnesses and the
ends of justice would be promoted by the change.
(d) When from any cause there is no judge of the
court qualified to act.
[…]
 
(Code
Civ. Proc., § 397.)
 
ANALYSIS
 
            The Complaint alleges that Defendant
entered into the contract at issue in Los Angeles County and also currently
lives in Los Angeles County.  (Complaint
¶ 7.)  In support of the motion to
transfer venue, Plaintiff has provided the Declaration of Gloria Zarco,
indicating that since filing the Complaint, Plaintiff has discovered that
Defendant currently resides in Mill Valley, California.  (Zarco Decl. ¶ 3.)  The Court notes that Mill Valley is in Marin
County.
 
            Plaintiff now moves to transfer
venue pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 397, subdivision (a) on the
basis that the Superior Court of California, County of Los Angeles is not the
proper court.
 
            The Complaint alleges both that the
contract was entered into in Los Angeles County and that Defendant resided in
Los Angeles County at the time the action was commenced.  Although Plaintiff has since learned that Defendant
in fact currently resides in Marin County, Plaintiff has not challenged the
allegations that Defendant signed the contract in California.  Therefore, it does not appear from the face
of the Complaint or the Zarco Declaration that venue is improper in the county
of Los Angeles or that this Court is not a proper court or venue.
 
            However, because Defendant currently
resides within Marin County, and Plaintiff submitted the motion to transfer,
the Court finds that the convenience of the witnesses and the ends of justice
would be promoted by the change of venue.
 
CONCLUSION AND ORDER
 
For the reasons stated, the Court grants Plaintiff’s motion to
transfer venue to the Superior Court of California, County of Marin, and orders
Plaintiff to forthwith effectuate the transfer and pay all related costs and
fees associated with the transfer of the action.  
 
Further, the Court on its own motion vacates the Case Management
Conference and discharges the Order to Show Cause set on August 30, 2024.  
 
The Clerk of the Court shall provide notice of the Court’s
ruling.  
 
 
DATED:  April 30, 2024                                                        ___________________________
                                                                                          Michael
E. Whitaker
                                                                                          Judge
of the Superior Court