 Case Number:  19STCV32652    Hearing Date:   October 31, 2024    Dept:  W URI PEREZ v. GEORGE ANDERSON
 
motion for additional discovery 
 
Date of Hearing:        October
31, 2024                                          Trial Date:       11/4/24
Department:              W                                                                    Case
No.:        19STCV32625
 
Moving Party:            Plaintiff Uri Perez
Responding Party:     George Anderson 
 
BACKGROUND
 
On September 13, 2019, plaintiff Uri
Perez filed a complaint against defendant George Anderson for injuries arising
from a motor vehicle accident.  This case
has been set for trial and continued multiple times.  Plaintiff and his former counsel have been
sanctioned several times for discovery abuses and violations of court
orders.   Prior counsel substituted out
on August 8, 2024, and new counsel took over the case.  While new counsel had believed that expert
discovery deadlines would be based on the new trial date of November 4, 2024,
he subsequently learned that defendant was taking the position that all
discovery deadlines were to be based on an earlier trial date of December 13,
2023.    Plaintiff’s new counsel moved swiftly to file
this motion for additional discovery after entering the case.   Defendant opposes the motion.  
 
[Tentative] Ruling
 
Plaintiff’s motion for additional
discovery is denied.  
 
discussion
 
Plaintiff moves this court for additional
discovery pursuant to C.C.P. Section 2024.050, which provides: 
 
 (a)
On motion of any party, the court may grant leave to complete discovery
proceedings, or to have a motion concerning discovery heard, closer to the
initial trial date, or to reopen discovery after a new trial date has been set.
This motion shall be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration under Section
2016.040.
 
(b) In exercising its discretion to
grant or deny this motion, the court shall take into consideration any matter
relevant to the leave requested, including, but not limited to, the following:
 
(1)
The necessity and the reasons for the discovery.
 
(2) The diligence or lack of diligence of the party seeking
the discovery or the hearing of a discovery motion, and the reasons that the
discovery was not completed or that the discovery motion was not heard earlier.
 
(3) Any likelihood that permitting the discovery or hearing
the discovery motion will prevent the case from going to trial on the date set,
or otherwise interfere with the trial calendar, or result in prejudice to any
other party.
 
(4) The length of time that has elapsed between any date
previously set, and the date presently set, for the trial of the action.
 
            The
court finds that plaintiff cannot establish a basis for relief under Section
2024.050.  While expert discovery is
obviously necessary for any case in which experts have been designated, the
rules relating to the disclosure and discovery of expert opinions are rigorous
and must be complied with.   Prior
counsel’s declaration that he did not know that he had stipulated to a
discovery cut-off based on the December 13, 2023 trial date is belied by his
conduct.  He would have received multiple
deposition notices and substantial checks for the appearance of plaintiff’s
experts all set for the end of November 2023 – the discovery cut-off date set
by the court in its order of November 1, 2023.  
He did not appear at those depositions or even contact defense counsel
to ask why they were being set at that time and not based on a later trial
date.  He also did not set any
depositions of his own.  Defense counsel
showed up at each deposition and took and paid for a notice of
non-appearance.  
 
There
is also a history of discovery abuses by plaintiff and his prior counsel.  Critically, Plaintiff’s counsel did not
produce plaintiff for a court-ordered neurological exam on November 14, or for
the court ordered and stipulated neurological exam on February 1, 2024.  It was not until some time in February that
plaintiff’s former counsel claims to have realized that there was a court order
that all discovery was cut-off and then only when defendant brought a motion to
compel the mental health examination and for sanctions.   By the time the court ruled on that motion
on April 18, 2024, plaintiff knew that it was the court and defendant’s
position that discovery was cut-off in November 2023.  Despite this information, plaintiff’s counsel
did nothing to request relief or to reopen discovery. 
 
 In short, plaintiff’s counsel has displayed a
remarkable lack of diligence in obtaining expert discovery, complying with
defendant’s requests for discovery and seeking relief from his failure to
cooperate.   New counsel’s efforts to
reopen these issues, while well-meaning and pursued in good faith, do not erase
the years of discovery abuses by former counsel.  
 
            Further,
if the court were to permit discovery of the parties’ eight retained experts,
the court would need to continue the current trial date of November 4.  This court is heavily impacted by other cases
and cannot easily move the current trial date without interfering with the
expectations of other parties, many of whom are also approaching the five-year
deadline for getting their cases to trial.  
The court further finds that defendants will be severely prejudiced
should the court reopen expert discovery. 
Defendants reasonably expected that discovery would be completed by the
end of 2023. Plaintiff ignored their requests for expert discovery.  Defendants have planned their trial strategy
accordingly.  To require them to now
expend time and money to depose plaintiff’s experts and to incorporate those
findings and opinions into their trial planning would be disruptive and
costly.   
 
            Accordingly,
the motion to allow additional discovery is denied.  
 