 Case Number:  24VECV00052    Hearing Date:   October 31, 2024    Dept:  W SAJJAD
TAKALLOU vs WALMART INC.
 
defendant
walmart inc.’s motion for summary judgment on plaintiff’s complaint for damages

 
Date of Hearing:        October
31, 2024                              Trial
Date:       None set. 
Department:              W                                                        Case No.:        24VECV00052
 
Moving Party:            Defendant Walmart, Inc. 
Opposing Party:        No opposition. 
 
BACKGROUND
 
This is a premises liability case. Plaintiff Sajjad Takallou
alleges while walking down the shopping aisle at a Walmart location, an
employee operating a metal commercial cart made contact with Plaintiff, causing
Plaintiff to fall into a clothing rack while carrying a child. As a result of
the incident, Plaintiff has suffered injuries. On January 4, 2024, Plaintiff
filed a complaint against Defendant Walmart, Inc. for premises liability. 
 
[Tentative] Ruling
 
Defendant
Walmart Inc.’s Motion for Summary Judgment on Plaintiff’s Complaint for Damages
is GRANTED. 
 
DISCUSSION
 
Defendant Walmart, Inc. moves this
court for an order granting Defendant’s summary judgment on Plaintiff Sajjad
Takallou’s Complaint for damages. 
 
In reviewing a motion for summary judgment, courts must apply a
three-step analysis: “(1) identify the issues framed by the pleadings; (2)
determine whether the moving party has negated the opponent’s claims; and (3)
determine whether the opposition has demonstrated the existence of a triable,
material factual issue.” (Hinesley v. Oakshade
Town Center (2005) 135 Cal.App.4th 289, 294.)
 
“[T]he initial burden is always on the moving party to make a prima
facia showing that there are no triable issues of material fact.” (Scalf v. D. B. Log Homes, Inc. (2005) 128 Cal.App.4th 1510, 1519.) A defendant moving for summary
judgment or summary adjudication “has met his or her burden of showing that a
cause of action has no merit if the party has shown that one or more elements
of the cause of action . . . cannot be established, or that there is a complete
defense to the cause of action.” (CCP § 437c(p)(2).) A moving defendant need
not conclusively negate an element of plaintiff’s cause of action. (Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 854.)
 
To meet this burden of showing a cause of action cannot be established,
a defendant must show not only “that the plaintiff does not possess needed
evidence” but also that “the plaintiff cannot reasonably obtain needed
evidence.” (Aguilar, supra, 25 Cal.4th
at p. 854.) It is insufficient for the defendant to merely point out the
absence of evidence. (Gaggero v. Yura (2003) 108 Cal.App.4th 884, 891.) The defendant “must also produce
evidence that the plaintiff cannot reasonably obtain evidence to support his or
her claim.” (Ibid.) The supporting evidence can be in the form of affidavits,
declarations, admissions, depositions, answers to interrogatories, and matters
of which judicial notice may be taken. (Aguilar, supra, 25 Cal.4th
at p. 855.)
 
“Once the defendant . . . has met that burden, the burden shifts to the
plaintiff . . . to show that a triable issue of one or more material facts
exists as to the cause of action or a defense thereto.” (CCP § 437c(p)(2).) The
plaintiff may not merely rely on allegations or denials of its pleadings to
show that a triable issue of material fact exists, but instead, “shall set
forth the specific facts showing that a triable issue of material fact exists
as to the cause of action.” (Ibid.) “If the plaintiff cannot do so, summary judgment should be granted.”
(Avivi v. Centro Medico Urgente Medical
Center (2008) 159 Cal.App.4th 463, 467.)
 
Plaintiff alleges that while carrying a child and walking down a
shopping aisle at a Walmart located in West Hills, California, a Walmart
associate hit him repeatedly with a cart, causing him to fall into a clothing
rack. (SSUMF No. 1, 2.) To establish premises liability, plaintiff must prove
that the defendant breached a duty of care owed to the plaintiff that
proximately caused injury and damages. “Those who own, possess, or control
property generally have a duty to exercise ordinary care in managing the property
in order to avoid exposing others to an unreasonable risk of harm.” (Annocki
v. Peterson Enterprises, LLC (2014) 232 Cal.App.4th 32, 37.)  Here,
Defendant Walmart presents evidence that Plaintiff was not carrying a child at
the time of the Incident, nor did he fall into a clothing rack. (SSUMF No. 3.)
The video footage also shows that a Walmart associate also did not strike him
with a cart; rather, Plaintiff shoved a cart out of his way as he ran past it
to chase after one of his daughters. (SSUMF No. 4.) Moreover, based on
Plaintiff’s discovery responses, Defendant argues Plaintiff’s deemed admissions
establish that he cannot prove that Defendant caused his injuries. “[A]
deemed admitted order establishes, by judicial fiat, that a nonresponding party
has responded to the requests by admitting the truth of all matters contained
therein.”  (Wilcox v. Birtwhistle (1999) 21 Cal.4th 973,
979.)  Requests for admissions “differs fundamentally from the other five
discovery tools (depositions, interrogatories, inspection demands, medical
examinations, and expert witness exchanges) . . . [because] admission requests
seek to eliminate the need for proof: ‘The purpose of the admissions
procedure . . . is to limit the triable issues and spare the parties the burden
and expense of litigating undisputed issues.’  Sometimes, the admissions
obtained will even leave the party making them vulnerable to summary
judgment.”  [Citations.]  Matters that are admitted or deemed
admitted through RFA discovery devices are conclusively established in the
litigation and are not subject to being contested through contrary
evidence.  [Citation.]”  (St. Mary v. Superior Court (2014)
223 Cal.App.4th 762, 775.) 
 
On February 16, 2024, Defendant served Requests for Admissions, Set One
on Plaintiff. (SSUMF 10, Exh. H.) Plaintiff’s responses to the Requests for
Admissions were due no later than March 22, 2024. (SSUMF 12.) Defendant did not
receive responses by that date, and therefore filed a Motion to Deem Admitted
on March 29, 2024.  (SSUMF 13, Exh. J.) After
hearing on June 5, 2024, the Court granted Defendant’s Motion, deeming the Requests
for Admissions, Set One, admitted. (SSUMF 15, Exh. L.) Thereafter, Defendant
received Plaintiff’s responses to written discovery requests on August 2, 2024.
(SSUMF 16, Exh. M.) In this response, Plaintiff states he was not injured
because of the accident. (SSUMF 18, Exh. M.) Moreover, Defendant asked
Plaintiff to admit that the Incident was not caused by a dangerous condition on
the Defendant’s premises, that he was not injured because of the Incident,
Defendant did not breach a duty to him on the date of the Incident, and
Plaintiff could have avoided this Incident using reasonable care. (SSUMF 17-20,
Exh.s L, H, M.) As noted above, the court ordered Defendant’s requests for
admission deemed admitted after Plaintiff failed to serve responses.  Therefore, Plaintiff has admitted that he
cannot establish essential elements for his premises liability claim. 
 
Plaintiff did not oppose this motion and failed to raise a triable
issue of material fact.  Accordingly,
Plaintiff did not meet his burden to show why summary judgment should not be
granted.   
 
In light of the foregoing, the Motion for Summary Judgment is GRANTED. 