 Case Number:  23VECV05771    Hearing Date:   June 25, 2024    Dept:  W JOSHUA NAMM vs GLENN EDWARD EBOW
 
Motion TO STRIKE the request for punitive
damages in plaintiff’s second amended complaint 
 
Date
of Hearing:       June 25, 2024                                                  Trial
Date:       None
set.  
Department:              W                                                                     Case
No.:        23VECV05771
 
Moving Party:            Defendant
Glenn Edward Ebow
Responding Party:     Plaintiff
Joshua Namm
Meet and Confer:      Yes.
(Lerman Decl. ¶8.) 
 
BACKGROUND
 
Plaintiff alleges while lawfully riding
his bicycle, Defendant negligently opened his car door into the path of
Plaintiff, causing Plaintiff physical injury. Thereafter, Plaintiff alleges
Defendant intentionally inflicted emotional distress through extreme and
outrageous conduct including threatening and harassing him. On April 18, 2024,
Plaintiff filed a second amended complaint against Defendant for motor vehicle
negligence, general negligence, and intentional infliction of emotional
distress. 
 
[Tentative] Ruling
 
Defendant’s Motion to Strike the Request for Punitive Damages in
Plaintiff’s Second Amended Complaint is DENIED. 
 
ANALYSIS 
 
Defendant Glenn Edward Ebow moves to strike the request for
punitive damages in Plaintiff Joshua Namm’s Second Amended Complaint on the
grounds the complaint fails to properly plead and state any relevant facts, or
sufficient underlying facts, against Defendant to request punitive damages
pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 435. 
 
The court may, upon a motion, or at any time in its discretion,
and upon terms it deems proper, strike any irrelevant, false, or improper
matter inserted in any pleading. (CCP § 436(a).) The court may also strike all
or any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of
this state, a court rule, or an order of the court. (CCP § 436(b).) The grounds
for a motion to strike are that the pleading has irrelevant, false or improper
matter, or has not been drawn or filed in conformity with laws. (CCP § 436.)
The grounds for moving to strike must appear on the face of the pleading or by
way of judicial notice. (CCP § 437.) 
 
To sufficiently plead a claim for punitive damages pursuant to
Civil Code §3294, a plaintiff must satisfy circumstances of “malice,
oppression, or fraud,” supported by facts alleged with sufficient
particularity. (G.D. Searle & Co. v. Superior Court (1975) 49
Cal.App.3d 22, 29.) These allegations are held to a heightened pleading
standard: a plaintiff may not state a mere conclusion of law to support a cause
of action. (Perkins v. Sup. Ct. (1981) 117 Cal.App.3d 1, 6.) More
importantly, the plaintiff may not simply "plead . . . a claim for damages
in the language authorizing such damages." (Id.) While some
conclusory statements may be permitted, they must make sense in the context of
the Complaint taken as a whole. (Id.)
 
Defendant argues the allegations presented by Plaintiff are
conclusory statements and lack the necessary factual support to prove a claim
for punitive damages. Rather, if anything, they support a claim of negligence. Defendant
contends the assertion that Defendants “intentionally inflicted emotional
distress” is a legal conclusion without specific supporting facts showing
intent or recklessness with malice. Moreover, any statements blaming Plaintiff
or alleged threats are opinions or lack context and detail necessary to
demonstrate that the treat was made with the specific intent to cause severe
emotional distress. 
 
In opposition, Plaintiff argues the instant motion is an improper
and baseless attempt to curb Plaintiff’s ability to hold Defendant responsible
for the reprehensible attack. Plaintiff contends their complaint contains more
than sufficient factual detail to meet the standard for pleading punitive
damages including defendant acted with willful disregard for the safety of
others based on Defendant Ebow threatening to break Plaintiff’s jaw, harassed
Plaintiff as he tried to contact the police, and one punch from Ebow could kill
Plaintiff. 
 
The court finds the allegations sufficient for the purposes of a
motion to strike. As alleged, Plaintiff has demonstrated Defendant’s conduct
was both despicable and willful. Plaintiff alleges after the incident, Defendant
blamed Plaintiff for the collision and approached Plaintiff for threatening to
break Plaintiff’s jaw and stating that one punch could kill him. Thereafter,
Defendant went into his home and returned with three women, who harassed
Plaintiff has he tried to contact police. This, along with Plaintiff’s
allegations that Defendant told him nobody could “save” him and upon exchanging
numbers, Defendant called Plaintiff stating he “did some research” on him and
knew “all kinds of things”, may be enough for a trier of fact to find Defendant
intended to cause injury to the plaintiff or acted with despicable conduct. 
 
Accordingly, the motion to strike is DENIED. 