 Case Number:  24VECV01088    Hearing Date:   June 25, 2024    Dept:  W CLEARCOVER
INSURANCE vs MARI MARASHLYAN, et al.
 
plaintiff CLEARCOVER INSURANCE’S MOTIONs
to compel discovery 
 
Date of Hearing:        June
25, 2024                                     Trial
Date:       None
set. 
Department:              W                                                        Case
No.:        24VECV01088
 
Moving Party:             Plaintiff Clearcover
Insurance 
Responding Party:     No
opposition.  
 
BACKGROUND
 
On March 8, 2024, Clearcover Insurance
filed a petition to open a Superior Court file for the purpose of establishing jurisdiction
over uninsured/underinsured motorist arbitration matter. 
 
[Tentative] Ruling
 
I.                   
Plaintiff
Clearcover Insurance’s Motion to Deem the Truth of the Matters Specified in
Requests for Admissions, Set One against Defendant Narek Agabalyan Admitted and
Conclusively Established is GRANTED.
II.                 
Plaintiff
Clearcover Insurance’s Motion to Compel Defendant Narek Agabalyan to Provide
Responses to Form Interrogatories, Set One is GRANTED. 
III.               
Plaintiff
Clearcover Insurance’s Motion to Compel Defendant Narek Agabalyan to Provide
Responses and Documents to Demand for Production of Documents, Set One is
GRANTED. 
IV.              
Plaintiff
Clearcover Insurance’s Motion to Compel Defendant Narek Agabalyan to Provide
Responses to Special Interrogatories, Set One is GRANTED. 
V.                
Plaintiff
Clearcover Insurance’s Motion to Compel Defendant Mari Marashlyan to Provide
Responses to Special Interrogatories, Set One is GRANTED. 
VI.              
Plaintiff
Clearcover Insurance’s Motion to Compel Defendant Mari Marashlyan to Provide
Responses to Form Interrogatories, Set One is GRANTED. 
VII.            
Plaintiff
Clearcover Insurance’s Motion to Compel Defendant Mari Marashlyan to Provide
Responses and Documents to Demand for Production of Documents, Set One is
GRANTED. 
 
DISCUSSION
 
Plaintiff
Clearcover Insurance moves this court for an order (1) compelling Defendants
Narek Agabalyan and Mari Marashlyan to provide responses without objection to
Plaintiff’s Form Interrogatories, Set One; Special Interrogatories, Set One;
and Demand for Production of Documents, Set One; as well as (2) an order deeming
the truth of all matters specified in Request for Admission, Set One served on Defendants
Narek Agabalyan and Mari Marashlyan on the grounds Defendant has failed,
without justification, to respond to these discovery requests. 
 
Where a party fails to
serve timely responses to discovery requests, the court may make an order
compelling responses. (CCP §§ 2030.290, 2031.300, 2033.280; Sinaiko
Healthcare Consulting, Inc. v. Pacific Healthcare Consultants (2007)
148 Cal.App.4th 390, 403.) A party that fails to serve a timely response to the
discovery request waives any objection to the request, including one based on
privilege or the protection of attorney work product. (CCP §§2030.290(a),
2031.300(a), 2033.280(a); Sinaiko Healthcare Consulting, Inc., supra,
148 Cal.App.4th at 404.) Pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 2033.010,
the propounding party may also move for an order that the genuineness of any
documents and the truth of any matters specified in the requests be deemed
admitted, as well as for a monetary sanction. (CCP § 2033.280(b).)
 
On December 8, 2023,
Plaintiff’s counsel propounded on Defendants Agabalyan and Marashlyan Plaintiff’s
Form Interrogatories, Set One; Special Interrogatories, Set One; Demand for
Production of Documents, Set One; and Request for Admissions, Set One.
(Hernandez Decl. ¶2, Exh. A.) On January 18, 2024, Plaintiff’s counsel sent a
meet and confer letter advising Defendant of the overdue discovery requests.
(Hernandez Decl. ¶5, Exh. B.) As of this date, Defendant has not responded to
the discovery demand. (Hernandez Decl. ¶3.) 
 
The
court finds Defendants Agabalyan and Marashlyan have failed to timely respond
to Plaintiff’s properly served discovery requests. 
 
The
court therefore GRANTS Plaintiff’s Motion
to Deem the Truth of the Matters Specified in Requests for Admissions, Set One
against Defendant Narek Agabalyan Admitted and Conclusively Established; Motion
to Compel Defendant Narek Agabalyan to Provide Responses to Form
Interrogatories, Set One; Motion
to Compel Defendant Narek Agabalyan to Provide Responses and Documents to
Demand for Production of Documents, Set One; Motion to Compel Defendant Narek
Agabalyan to Provide Responses to Special Interrogatories, Set One; Motion to Compel Defendant Mari Marashlyan to
Provide Responses to Special Interrogatories, Set One; Motion to Compel
Defendant Mari Marashlyan to Provide Responses to Form Interrogatories, Set One;
and Motion to Compel Defendant Mari Marashlyan to Provide Responses and
Documents to Demand for Production of Documents, Set One. 
 
Defendants are to provide responses within 20  days. 
 