  Case Number:  21STCV11966    Hearing Date:   October 2, 2023    Dept:  49 Juan S. Marcial v. FCA US, LLC, et al.MOTION FOR RECONSIDERATION MOVING PARTY: Plaintiff Juan S. Marcial RESPONDING PARTY(S): NoneSTATEMENT OF MATERIAL FACTS AND/OR PROCEEDINGS:In 2016, Plaintiff Juan S. Marcial purchased a 2014 Chrysler Town and Country from Defendant Scott Robinson Chrysler Dodge Jeep Ram.  Plaintiff sued the dealer and manufacturer for violations of the Song-Beverly Act.On October 21, 2021, this court (Hon. Upinder S. Kalra) granted Defendants’ motion to compel arbitration and stayed the matter pending arbitration. [FN 1]  The court ruled Defendant FCA, the manufacturer, could invoke the arbitration agreement on an equitable estoppel theory.Plaintiff now moves for reconsideration of the court’s order compelling the parties to binding arbitration.  No opposition was filed. [FN 2] TENTATIVE RULING:Plaintiff’s Motion for Reconsideration is DENIED.However, this court suggests that the parties stipulate to stay the current arbitration proceedings, pending a decision by the California Supreme Court in Ford Motor Warranty Cases (2023) 89 Cal. App. 5th 1324 (Ochoa), which has been accepted for review. Absent a stipulation of the parties, all prior orders remain in full force and effect.Defendant to give notice.DISCUSSION:Motion for ReconsiderationI. Judicial NoticePursuant to Plaintiff’s request, the court takes judicial notice of Exhibits A, B, an C. II. Timeliness of MotionPlaintiff seeks reconsideration of the court’s prior order granting Defendants’ motion to compel arbitration. Under Code of Civil Procedure section 1008(a), “any party affected by” an order may move for reconsideration “within 10 days after service upon the party of written notice of entry of the order.” However, under subdivision (c) of section 1008, “[i]f a court at any time determines that there has been a change of law that warrants it to reconsider a prior order it entered, it may do so on its own motion and enter a different order.” (Emphasis added). Accordingly, subdivision (c) contains no time limit.Plaintiff purports to move under section 1008(c). But this section only permits the court to reconsider a motion on its own motion. Thus, Plaintiff is actually moving under subdivision (a). Therefore, the motion is untimely.III. Filing Before Proper Judge This raises an interesting point:  Judge Kalra was temporarily assigned to Department 49 as of that date.  Judge Hammock was assigned for “all purposes” to D49 (and this case) effective as of 10/25/21.  (See, Notice of Case Reassignment, 10/14/21.)  Judge Karla is currently assigned next door (literally) in D51, also in an Independent Calendar (I/C) Court.  As such, he appears to be “available” to hear this motion, as he is the judge who heard and decided it.  C.C.P. § 1008 (a) [“[A]ny party may . . .make application to the same judge or court that made that order . . .”] (Emphasis added.)Be that as it may, Plaintiff filed this motion on 7/19/23 in Department 49 with presumptive knowledge of these facts.  It shall hear and determine this motion accordingly.IV. There Has Been No “Change in Law”Plaintiff seeks reconsideration of the order compelling arbitration based on the recent Court of Appeal decisions in Ochoa v. Ford and/or Montemayor, et al. v. Ford Motor Company. Plaintiff contends Ochoa and Montemayor represent a “change in law” justifying reconsideration. In Felisilda, the plaintiffs sued a car manufacturer and car dealer for violations of Song-Beverly.  (Felisilda v. FCA US LLC (2020) 53 Cal. App. 5th 486.) The dealer moved to compel arbitration of the claims based on an arbitration provision.  (Id.)  The trial court ordered arbitration of the claims against both the dealer and manufacturer.  The plaintiffs then dismissed the dealer, and arbitrated their claims with the manufacturer.  (Id.)  After the trial court confirmed the arbitrator’s decision, the plaintiffs appealed, arguing that the trial court could not order plaintiffs to arbitrate the claim with the manufacturer because it was a nonsignatory to the sales contract.  (Id.)The Court of Appeal rejected this argument.  The Court explained that the express warranties allegedly breached by the manufacturer arose from the sales contract.  (Id. at 496-97).  “Because the [plaintiffs] expressly agreed to arbitrate claims arising out of the condition of the vehicle – even against third party nonsignatories to the sales contract – they are estopped from refusing to arbitrate their claim against [the manufacturer].”  (Id. at 497).More recently, the Court of Appeal addressed the same issues in Ford Motor Warranty Cases (2023) 89 Cal. App. 5th 1324 (“Ochoa”). In relevant part, the Ochoa Court converged from Felisilda’s position that “the sales contract was the source” of the warranties at issue. (Felisilda, supra, 53 Cal.App.5th at p. 496.) Instead, the Ochoa court concluded that “manufacturer vehicle warranties that accompany the sale of motor vehicles without regard to the terms of the sale contract between the purchaser and the dealer are independent of the sale contract.” (Ochoa, supra, 2023 WL 2768484 at *4 [emphasis added].) Thus, the court found equitable estoppel to be inapplicable because the plaintiffs’ claims “in no way rel[ied] on the sale contracts.” (Id.) Therefore, the Plaintiffs were not attempting “to prevent a party from taking advantage of a contract's substantive terms while avoiding those terms requiring arbitration,” which is the “’fundamental point’ of using equitable estoppel to compel arbitration.” (Id.) Separately, Ochoa also held that the manufacturer was not a third-party beneficiary of the arbitration provision. (Id. at 1340.)Felisilda is in conflict with Ochoa and Montemayor. Indeed, Ochoa did not purport to distinguish Felisilda.  Rather, the Court stated flatly that it “disagree[s] with Felisilda’s analysis.” (Ochoa, supra, 89 Cal. App. 5th at 1334.) The Ochoa Court also noted it was not bound by Felisilda because there is no “horizontal stare decisis” in California. (Id. at fn. 1.) However, this conflict does not render Felisilda invalid. “[W]here there is more than one appellate court decision, and such appellate decisions are in conflict…. the court exercising inferior jurisdiction can and must make a choice between the conflicting decisions.” (See Auto Equity Sales, Inc. v. Superior Ct. of Santa Clara Cnty. (1962) 57 Cal. 2d 450, 456.) Thus, fatal to Plaintiff’s motion is that there has been no “change in law”—only a split between two separate Court of Appeal decisions.  [FN 3]This court also rejects Plaintiff’s contention that Felisilda’s discussion of equitable estoppel was only “dicta.” Surely, the panel in Ochoa did not see the issue that way, as it expressly recognized the split. For purposes of this motion, and consistent with this court’s prior ruling, this court adopts the ruling and rationale of Felisilda. A close reading of Felisilda does not indicate that the California Court of Appeal considered it material whether the plaintiff named the dealership in the suit, or whether the dealer (but not the manufacturer) was the party seeking to compel arbitration.  Indeed, the Felisilda court flatly stated it was dealing with the case where a “nonsignatory may compel arbitration.”  (Felisilda, 53 Cal.App.5th at 496 [emphasis added]).  Rather, the court focused on the fact that the arbitration provision expressly extended to third parties, as it also does here.  (Id. at 498).  There is nothing in the decision that implies it would have come out differently had the manufacturer alone been the one who compelled arbitration.The bottom line is that this Court frankly believes that any court’s finding that the manufacturer of a car “was not intended to be a third-party beneficiary” of the sales contract is hair splitting at best – delusionary at its worse.  Consumers do not generally purchase or lease their new cars directly from the manufacturer.  They do so through the authorized dealers of the manufacturer.  The manufacturer is rarely directly involved in that transaction.  Common sense dictates that the manufacturer was clearly intended to benefit from any arbitration agreement between a purchaser/lessee and the authorized dealer of the manufacturer.   [FN 4]Therefore, the arbitration provision here was enforceable—and under current law and Auto Equity Sales, remains enforceable—by the nonsignatory manufacturer. Accordingly, Plaintiff’s Motion for Reconsideration is DENIED.IT IS SO ORDERED.DATE: October 2, 2023 ___________________________________ Randolph M. Hammock Judge of the Superior CourtFN 1 - See Section III, infra.FN 2 - Plaintiff’s Proof of Service shows service of the moving papers on Defendants by email on July 19, 2023. (See Proof of Service.)FN 3 - Interestingly enough, it does appear that the California Supreme Court will, in fact, be addressing (and hopefully – resolving) this current split in the court of appeals, since it has recently granted review of the Ochoa decision.  FN 4 - On the other hand, it is certainly a fair point to also note that it would certainly be easier for the sales or lease contract to simply state that fact, since it is essentially written by the manufacturer and/or its authorized dealer.  