 Case Number:  22STCV02611    Hearing Date:   December 15, 2023    Dept:  53 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles – Central District
Department
53
 
 




sofia nemzer

   ;
 


   Plaintiff,
 
 
vs.
 
 
1544 9th street, llc

   , et al.;
 


   Defendants.


Case
  No.:


22STCV02611




 


 




Hearing
  Date:


December
   15, 2023




 


 




Time:





   10:00 a.m.




 


 




 
[Tentative]
  Order RE:
 
(1)  
  defendant’s
  motion to compel deposition of amtech elevator services employee eric
  palmquist
(2)  
  defendant’s
  motion to compel deposition of amtech elevator services employee jimmie
  martin
(3)  
  defendant’s
  motion to compel deposition of amtech elevator services employee derek hunter
 



 
MOVING PARTY:                 Defendant and cross-complainant
Howard Management Group  
 
RESPONDING PARTY:       Cross-defendant Pacific Coast Elevator Corporation d/b/a Amtech
Elevator Services
(1)  
Motion
to Compel Deposition of Amtech Elevator Services Employee Eric Palmquist
(2)  
Motion
to Compel Deposition of Amtech Elevator Services Employee Jimmie Martin
(3)  
Motion
to Compel Deposition of Amtech Elevator Services Employee Derek Hunter
The court considered the moving, opposition, and reply papers filed in
connection with the motion to compel the deposition of Eric Palmquist.  
On December 14, 2023, counsel for defendant and cross-complainant Howard Management Group advised the clerk
that the motions to compel the depositions of Jimmie Martin and Derek Hunter
are off calendar.  The court therefore
has not considered the papers filed in connection with those motions and takes the
hearings on those motions off calendar.   
MOTION TO COMPEL DEPOSITION OF AMTECH ELEVATOR
SERVICES EMPLOYEE ERIC PALMQUIST
Defendant and
cross-complainant Howard Management Group (“Howard”) moves the court for an
order (1) compelling Eric Palmquist (“Palmquist”), a former employee for
cross-defendant Pacific Coast Elevator Corporation d/b/a Amtech Elevator
Services (“Amtech”), to appear for, testify, and produce documents at
deposition, and (2) awarding monetary sanctions in favor of Howard and against
Amtech in the amount of $7,080.
“If, after service of a
deposition notice, a party to the action . . . or employee of a party, without
having served a valid objection under Section 2025.410, fails to appear for
examination  . . . or to produce for
inspection any document, electronically stored information, or tangible thing
described in the deposition notice, the party giving the notice may move for an
order compelling the deponent’s attendance and testimony, and the production
for inspection of any document, electronically stored information, or tangible
thing described in the deposition notice. 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.450, subd. (a).) 
Howard presents evidence
showing that (1) on October 27, 2023, it noticed Palmquist’s deposition for
November 9, 2023, and (2) Palmquist did not appear for deposition on November
9, 2023.  (Schwartz Decl., ¶¶ 10,
14; Schwartz Decl., Exs. I [Third Notice of Deposition for November 9, 2023], M
[Reporter’s Declaration re Failure of Taking Deposition].)  In opposition, Amtech asserts that this
motion “will be mooted by the completion of the Zoom deposition [of Palmquist]
on December 14, 2023[.]”  (Opp., p. 2:5-6;
Kelly Decl., ¶ 8 [“the deposition of Eric Palmquist is now set for December 14,
2023 via Zoom”].) 
First, the court grants Howard’s
motion to compel Palmquist to appear for and testify at deposition.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.450).  Second, the court denies Howard’s motion to
compel Palmquist to produce documents at deposition because Howard did not
submit a separate statement in support of that request as required.  (Cal. Rules of Ct., rule 3.1345, subd. (a)(5)
[a separate statement is required “To compel or to quash the production of
documents or tangible things at a deposition”].) 
The court denies Howard’s
request for monetary sanctions against Amtech because Howard did not state, in
the notice of motion, that (1) it was requesting sanctions against Amtech, and
(2) the type of sanction sought.  (Code
Civ. Proc., § 2023.040.) 
ORDER
The court grants in part defendant Howard Management Group’s motion to
compel the deposition of Amtech Elevator Services employee Eric Palmquist as
follows. 
The court orders Eric Palmquist, employee for cross-defendant Pacific Coast Elevator Corporation d/b/a Amtech
Elevator Services, to attend and testify at a deposition to be taken by counsel
for defendant Howard Management Group by no later than January 10, 2023, to
be conducted by a videoconference
platform to be selected by defendant Howard Management Group.
The court takes off calendar the hearing on defendant Howard Management
Group’s motion to compel the deposition of Amtech Elevator Services employee
Jimmie Martin.
The court takes off calendar the hearing on defendant Howard Management
Group’s motion to compel the deposition of Amtech Elevator Services employee
Derek Hunter.
The court orders defendant
Howard Management Group to give
notice of this ruling. 
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
DATED:  December 15, 2023
 
_____________________________
Robert
B. Broadbelt III
Judge
of the Superior Court