  Case Number:  19STCV29421    Hearing Date:   December 15, 2023    Dept:  53 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles – Central District
Department
53
 
 




arin yaghoubi

   ;
 


   Plaintiff,
 
 
vs.
 
 
ford motor company

   , et al.;
 


   Defendants.


Case
  No.:


19STCV29421




 


 




Hearing
  Date:


December
   15, 2023




 


 




Time:





   10:00 a.m.




 


 




 
[Tentative]
  Order RE:
 
plaintiff’s motion to compel the deposition
  of defendant’s person most knowledgeable and production of documents
 



 
MOVING PARTY:                 Plaintiff Arin Yaghoubi          
 
RESPONDING PARTY:       Defendant Ford Motor Company
Motion to Compel the Deposition of Defendant’s Person Most
Knowledgeable and Production of Documents
The court
considered the moving, opposition, and reply papers filed in connection with
this motion. 
DISCUSSION
Plaintiff Arin Yaghoubi (“Plaintiff”) moves the court for an order (1)
compelling defendant Ford Motor Company (“Defendant”) to produce for deposition
its person most qualified to testify as to matters for examination 1 through
19, as set forth in Plaintiff’s Notice of Deposition, and (2) compelling
Defendant to produce documents responsive to the Requests for Production of
Documents, numbers 3-18, as set forth in Plaintiff’s Notice of Deposition. 
            The court grants Plaintiff’s
motion to compel Defendant to produce its person most qualified as to matters
for examination numbers 1-3, 5-14, and 18-19.
            The court denies Plaintiff’s
motion to compel Defendant to produce its person most qualified as to subject
matter number 4 because it is duplicative of the matter for examination number
2. 
            The court denies Plaintiff’s
motion to compel Defendant to produce its person most qualified as to matters
for examination numbers 15-17 because the matters on which examination is
requested are not described with reasonable particularity.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.230.) 
The court grants Plaintiff’s motion to compel Defendant to produce at
the deposition of its person most qualified documents responsive to Requests
for Production of Documents, numbers 3-5, except for documents protected from
disclosure by the attorney-client privilege and the attorney work-product
doctrine. 
The court denies Plaintiff’s motion to compel Defendant to produce at
the deposition of its person most qualified documents responsive to Requests
for Production of Documents, numbers 6-15 because those requests are overbroad
and request the production of documents that are not relevant to the subject
matter of this action and are not reasonably calculated to lead to the
discovery of admissible evidence since the requests are not limited to vehicles
for the same year, make, and model as the subject vehicle.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2017.010.)
The court denies Plaintiff’s motion to compel Defendant to produce at
the deposition of its person most qualified documents responsive to Requests
for Production of Documents, numbers 16-18 because those requests are vague,
ambiguous, and unintelligible.  
The court denies Defendant’s request for monetary sanctions against
Plaintiff.  (Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 2025.450, subd. (g)(1).) 
ORDER
            The court grants in part plaintiff
Arin Yaghoubi’s motion to compel the deposition of defendant’s person most
knowledgeable and production of documents as follows.
The court orders defendant
Ford Motor Company (1) to designate and produce for deposition those of its officers,
directors, managing agents, employees, or agents who are most qualified to
testify on its behalf as to matters for examination, numbers 1-3,
5-14, and 18-19, as set
forth in plaintiff Arin Yaghoubi’s Notice of Deposition, by no
later than January 15, 2024, and (2) to produce at the deposition documents
responsive to Requests for Production of Documents, numbers 3-5, as set forth in plaintiff
Arin Yaghoubi’s Notice of Deposition, except that defendant Ford Motor Company is
not required to produce documents protected from disclosure by the
attorney-client privilege and the attorney work-product doctrine.
The court denies defendant
Ford Motor Company’s request for monetary sanctions against plaintiff Arin
Yaghoubi. 
The court orders plaintiff
Arin Yaghoubi to give notice of this ruling.
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
DATED:  December 15, 2023
 
_____________________________
Robert
B. Broadbelt III
Judge
of the Superior Court