..................... ..................... ..................... ......
The summary displayed below was created by an LLM named 'llama3-8b-8192':
Here is the summary in YAML format:

```
Case Number: 22STCV07986
Plaintiff's Name: Great Divide Insurance Company
Defendant's Name: Cannon Constructors South Inc.
People Names: Thomas D. Long
Company Names: Great Divide Insurance Company, Cannon Constructors South Inc., GPS Painting & Wallcovering
Places: Los Angeles, California
Dates: March 4, 2022, April 18, 2024, April 26, 2024, December 2020, June 4, 2021, March 23, 2023, October 10, 2024
Events: Filing of complaint, filing of amended cross-complaint, filing of demurrer and motion to strike
Money: None mentioned
Intentions: The Court's intention is to sustain the demurrer to the first, fifth, sixth, and seventh causes of action
Facts: The complaint alleges that Cannon caused a back-up in a building's plumbing system, resulting in substantial property damage
Disputes: The dispute is over the statute of limitations and the contractual basis for indemnity
Acts: Cannon filed an amended cross-complaint against GPS, which filed a demurrer and motion to strike
Agreements: The parties' Master Subcontract Agreement and Master Agreement contain indemnity provisions
Laws: Code of Civil Procedure sections 337 and 337.15, Hahn v. Mirda (2007), Nolte v. Cedars-Sinai Medical Center (2015), Geneva Towers Ltd. Partnership v. City of San Francisco (2003)
Case Citations: Hahn v. Mirda (2007), Nolte v. Cedars-Sinai Medical Center (2015), Geneva Towers Ltd. Partnership v. City of San Francisco (2003), Time for Living, Inc. v. Guy Hatfield Homes/All American Development Co. (1991)
Statutes: Code of Civil Procedure sections 337 and 337.15
Roles: Judge Thomas D. Long, Great Divide Insurance Company, Cannon Constructors South Inc., GPS Painting & Wallcovering
Significant Statements: The Court sustains the demurrer to the first, fifth, sixth, and seventh causes of action, and orders GPS to file an answer to the remainder of the FACC within 30 days.
```

And here is a summary of the judge's tentative ruling in English text:

The judge has issued a tentative ruling sustaining the demurrer to the first, fifth, sixth, and seventh causes of action in the amended cross-complaint filed by Cannon Constructors South Inc. against GPS Painting & Wallcovering. The demurrer was filed in response to the amended cross-complaint, which alleged express indemnity, implied indemnity, equitable indemnity, contribution, declaratory relief regarding duty to defend, and declaratory relief regarding duty to indemnify. The Court found that the claims are uncertain and do not allege a valid basis for express indemnity, as the allegations refer to indemnity provisions that do not apply to the underlying project. The Court also found that the claims are not facially time-barred, as the statute of limitations for breach of written contract and latent construction defect did not begin until the work on the underlying project was substantially completed. The Court ordered GPS to file an answer to the remainder of the amended cross-complaint within 30 days.
