  Case Number:  20STCV06887    Hearing Date:   October 10, 2024    Dept:  48  
 
 
SUPERIOR
COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



CLARENCE HARRELL, 
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
 
CITY OF PASADENA,
 
                        Defendant.


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


     
  CASE NO.: 20STCV06887
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER DENYING MOTIONS TO COMPEL
  FURTHER RESPONSES
 
Dept. 48
8:30 a.m.
October 10, 2024



 
Plaintiff
Clarence Harrell seeks to compel further responses to Deposition Notices and Requests
for Production of Documents (“RFPs”) from non-parties Francis Jose and Suzanne Stone,
who are employees of Defendant City of Pasadena.
Plaintiff
served a Second Amended Notice of Deposition of Francis Jose and RFPs for a November
2, 2023 deposition.  Defendant served objections
on November 2, 2023.  On January
25, 2024, Defendant served supplemental responses.
Plaintiff
served an Amended Notice of Deposition of Suzanne Stone and RFPs for a December
20, 2023 deposition.  Defendant served objections
on December 20, 2023.
On
March 8, 2024, Plaintiff filed motions to compel further responses from Francis
Jose and Suzanne Stone.  Defendant filed opposition
on July 29, 2024—the day before the hearings. 
The Court therefore continued the hearings.
A.        The Motion For Francis Jose is Untimely.
A
motion to compel further deposition testimony or production must be made within
60 days of the completion of the record. 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.480, subd. (b).)
The
transcript for Jose’s deposition was finalized on November 28, 2023, making January
29, 2024 the motion deadline.  (Price Decl.
¶ 9.)  Plaintiff did not file this motion
until March 8, 2024.
The
Hearing on Motion to Compel Further Discovery Responses to Plaintiff’s Request for
Production of Documents in the Second Amended Notice of Deposition of Francis Jose
is DENIED.
B.        Plaintiff Has Not Shown Good Cause for
the Documents From Suzanne Stone.
RFP
No. 13 requests “Each and every DOCUMENT containing each and every employee complaint
and/or union grievance that YOU received and/or became aware of, about Greg Heltsley,
between January 1, 2013 and Greg Heltsley’s last day of employment with the Defendant,
City of Pasadena, including but not limited to each and every complaint and/or union
grievance that James Lohse testified to having made during his deposition.  RFP No. 14 requests “Each and every DOCUMENT containing
each and every investigative report or finding relating to each and every investigation
that YOU undertook in connection with each and every employee complaint and/or union
grievance made about Greg Heltsley, between January 1, 2013 and Greg Heltsley’s
last day of employment with Defendant, City of Pasadena, including but not limited
to each and every complaint and/or union grievance that James Lohse testified to
having made during his deposition.”  In the
Separate Statement, “Plaintiff is willing to limit the scope of these requests to
only those complaints and/or union grievances filed by James Lohse as well as the
investigations of Ms. Stone undertook in connection thereof.”
RFP
No. 18 requests “Each and every DOCUMENT, including each and every COMMUNICATION,
in whatever format, electronic or otherwise, reflecting each and every work-related
complaint DEFENDANT received or became aware about PLAINTIFF’s supervisor.”  RFP No. 19 requests “Each and every DOCUMENT,
including each and every COMMUNICATION, in whatever format, electronic or otherwise,
reflecting each and every investigation concerning each and every work related complaint
DEFENDANT received or became aware about PLAINTIFF’s supervisor.”  In the Separate Statement, “Plaintiff is willing
to limit the scope of [these] request[s] to only those complaints and investigations
relating to Francis Jose between March 1, 2015 and December 31, 2018.”  (See also Anglin Decl. ¶ 9.)
Plaintiff
argues that these documents “would show whether other employees including James
Lohse and/or others were also subject to the same violations and breaches of law
and policy.  Complaints by others would show
Defendant’s knowledge of the discriminatory conduct either through the acts or omissions
of its supervisors such as Francis Jose and complaints made by others asserting
the same types of complaints asserted by Plaintiff.”
Plaintiff
alleges age-based and race-based discrimination, harassment, and retaliation.  According to Defendant, James Lohse “did not testify
that those complaints involved any alleged ageist or racially discriminatory conduct
by Mr. Heltsley.  Indeed, Mr. Lohse testified
that he (Mr. Lohse) complained that Mr. Heltsley was rude to him (Mr. Lohse) and
that Mr. Heltsley did not want to promote him (Mr. Lohse) because Mr. Heltsley said
that he (Mr. Lohse) was not ready.”  (Price
Decl. ¶ 3.)
Plaintiff
has not shown good cause for this discovery.
The
Motion to Compel Further Discovery Responses to Plaintiff's Request for Production
of Documents Nos. 13, 14, 18, and 19 in the Amended Notice of Deposition of Suzanne
Stone is DENIED.
Moving
party to give notice.
Parties
who intend to submit on this tentative must send an email to the Court at SMCDEPT48@lacourt.org
indicating intention to submit.  If all parties
in the case submit on the tentative ruling, no appearances before the Court are
required unless a companion hearing (for example, a Case Management Conference)
is also on calendar.
 
        
Dated this 10th day of October 2024
 




 


 




 


Hon. Thomas D. Long
Judge of the Superior
  Court
 




 