 Case Number:  21STCV33388    Hearing Date:   October 10, 2024    Dept:  48  
 
 
SUPERIOR
COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



ELANA MALEKAN, 
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
 
REBEKA SHADPOUR, et al.,
 
                        Defendants.


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


     
  CASE NO.: 21STCV33388
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER SUSTAINING DEMURRERS; GRANTING
  MOTION TO STRIKE
 
Dept. 48
8:30 a.m.
October 10, 2024



 
On
October 3, 2023, Elana Malekan filed a third amended complaint (“TAC”) against Rebeka
Shadpour, Wealth Road Inc., and Jason Shadpour (Trustee of The JK Land Trust).  The TAC alleges (1) breach of lease; (2) fraud;
(3) rescission and restitution; (4) breach of fiduciary duty; and (5) violation
of Penal Code section 496.
On
February 21, 2024, Rebeka Shadpour and Jason Shadpour (Trustee of The JK Land Trust)
(collectively, “Cross-Complainants”) against ALE Solutions, Safeco Insurance Company
of America, and Liberty Mutual Insurance Company (collectively, “Cross-Defendants”),
as well as Elana Malekan.  The Cross-Complaint
alleges (1) intentional misrepresentation; (2) negligent misrepresentation; (3)
fraud by concealment; (4) contribution; (5) equitable indemnification; (6) implied
contractual indemnification; (7) defamation per se; and (8) fraud.
On
May 13, 2024, ALE Solutions filed a demurrer to the first six causes of action and
motion to strike.
On
May 31, 2024, Safeco Insurance Company of America and Liberty Mutual Insurance Company
filed a demurrer to the first six causes of action.
Cross-Defendants’
arguments are substantially similar.  Accordingly,
the Court will address them together without citations to page numbers.
DEMURRERS
A
demurrer for sufficiency tests whether the complaint states a cause of action.  (Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 740,
747.)  When
considering demurrers, courts read the allegations liberally and in context, accepting
the alleged facts as true.  (Nolte v. Cedars-Sinai
Medical Center (2015) 236 Cal.App.4th 1401, 1406.)
A.        Factual Background
Malekan alleges that her personal residence was damaged and she was
forced to relocate.  (TAC ¶ 9.)  Pursuant to her insurance policy with Safeco,
Malekan obtained authorization to rent a comparable residence, with Safeco paying
the rent.  (TAC ¶ 9.)
Malekan entered into a lease with property owner Shadpour and landlord
The JK Trust.  (TAC ¶¶ 10-11.)  Malekan informed Shadpour that the passcode for
the property did not work, but she never received the correct passcode or a key,
and she never obtained possession of the property.  (TAC ¶ 13.) 
Malekan alleges that the lease was a sham.  (TAC ¶ 13.)
Cross-Complainants allege that Malekan’s temporary housing agreement
was actually with Safeco and the other Cross-Defendants.  (Cross-Complaint ¶ 15 & Ex. 1.)  At Malekan’s deposition, she testified that she
orally notified Safeco and Cross-Defendants that she did not have access to the
rented property.  (Cross-Complaint ¶ 19.)  “[D]espite being put on notice by Malekan that
she did not have access to the Subject Property,” Cross-Defendants never notified
Cross-Complainants about the issue, concealed the information, and “continued to
represent to Cross-Complainants that Malekan was in possession of the Subject Property.”  (Cross-Complaint ¶ 20.)
B.        The Misrepresentation
Claims Are Time-Barred (First, Second, Third Causes of Action).
“‘In
order for the bar of the statute of limitations to be raised by demurrer, the defect
must clearly and affirmatively appear on the face of the complaint; it is not enough
that the complaint shows that the action may be barred.’”  (Geneva Towers Ltd. Partnership v. City of
San Francisco (2003) 29 Cal.4th 769, 781.)
The
statute of limitations for intentional misrepresentation and concealment is three
years.   (Code Civ. Proc., § 338, subd. (d).)  The statute of limitations for negligent misrepresentation
is two years.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 339.)
Cross-Defendants
note that the latest alleged date was June 30, 2019, when the tenancy under the
lease expired.  (See Cross-Complaint ¶ 17.)  Therefore, the filing of the Cross-Complaint on
February 21, 2024 is after the two-year and three-year statutes of limitation for
any misrepresentation and concealment during the lease, and these claims are time-barred.
Cross-Complainants
argue that if the original complaint is filed before the statute of limitations
runs on the cross-complaint, then the cross-complaint is timely.
“[A] statute of limitations is suspended or tolled as to a defendant’s
then unbarred causes of action against the plaintiff arising out of the same transaction
by the filing of the plaintiff’s complaint.” 
(Electronic Equipment Express, Inc. v. Donald H. Seiler & Co.
(1981) 122 Cal.App.3d 834, 844; see ZF Micro Devices, Inc. v. TAT Capital Partners,
Ltd. (2016) 5 Cal.App.5th 69, 91 [“[T]he Supreme Court characterized the tolling
doctrine as embracing all cross-claims by a defendant against the plaintiff,
regardless of their relatedness to the claims asserted in the complaint.”].)
Cross-Defendants were not plaintiffs in the underlying complaint against
Cross-Complainants.  They first became parties
through the Cross-Complaint.  This tolling
rule does not apply to Cross-Complainants’ claims against Cross-Defendants.
Cross-Complainants also argue that they newly discovered the information
at Malekan’s January 26, 2024 deposition. 
(See Cross-Complaint ¶ 19.)  “In
order to rely on the discovery rule for delayed accrual of a cause of action, ‘[a]
plaintiff whose complaint shows on its face that his claim would be barred without
the benefit of the discovery rule must specifically plead facts to show (1) the
time and manner of discovery and (2) the inability to have made earlier discovery
despite reasonable diligence.’  [Citation.]  In assessing the sufficiency of the allegations
of delayed discovery, the court places the burden on the plaintiff to ‘show diligence’;
‘conclusory allegations will not withstand demurrer.’  [Citation.]” 
(Id. at p. 808.)  Cross-Defendants
do not allege facts showing why they could not have made earlier discovery despite
reasonable diligence.
The
demurrers to the first, second, and third causes of action are sustained.
C.        The Misrepresentation
Claims Do Not Allege Sufficient Facts (First, Second Causes of Action).
“The
essential elements of a count for intentional misrepresentation are (1) a misrepresentation,
(2) knowledge of falsity, (3) intent to induce reliance, (4) actual and justifiable
reliance, and (5) resulting damage.  [Citations.]  The essential elements of a count for negligent
misrepresentation are the same except that it does not require knowledge of falsity
but instead requires a misrepresentation of fact by a person who has no reasonable
grounds for believing it to be true.  [Citations.]”  (Chapman v. Skype Inc. (2013) 220 Cal.App.4th
217, 230-231.)
“Causes
of action for intentional and negligent misrepresentation sound in fraud and, therefore,
each element must be pleaded with specificity.” 
(Daniels v. Select Portfolio Servicing, Inc. (2016) 246 Cal.App.4th
1150, 1166.)  “‘This particularity requirement
necessitates pleading facts which show how, when, where, to whom, and by
what means the representations were tendered.’ 
[Citation.]  A plaintiff’s burden in
asserting a fraud claim against a corporate employer is even greater.  In such a case, the plaintiff must ‘allege the
names of the persons who made the allegedly fraudulent representations, their authority
to speak, to whom they spoke, what they said or wrote, and when it was said or written.’  [Citation.]” 
(Lazar v. Superior Court (1996) 12 Cal.4th 631, 645.)
Cross-Defendants
argue that there are no particular facts about the misrepresentations.  Cross-Complainants allege only that Cross-Defendants
“represented to Cross-Complainants that Malekan was in possession of the Subject
Property.”  (Cross-Complaint ¶¶ 24, 34; see
id. ¶ 20.)  There are no specific facts
about the misrepresentations.
The
demurrers to the first and second causes of action are sustained.
D.        The Concealment Claim
Does Not Allege Sufficient Facts (Third Cause of Action).
Fraud
based on concealment requires that “(1) the defendant must have concealed or suppressed
a material fact, (2) the defendant must have been under a duty to disclose the fact
to the plaintiff, (3) the defendant must have intentionally concealed or suppressed
the fact with the intent to defraud the plaintiff, (4) the plaintiff must have been
unaware of the fact and would not have acted as he did if he had known of the concealed
or suppressed fact, and (5) as a result of the concealment or suppression of the
fact, the plaintiff must have sustained damage.”  (Bigler-Engler v. Breg, Inc. (2017) 7 Cal.App.5th
276, 310-311.)  An essential element of intentional
concealment includes the duty to disclose, which must be based upon a transaction,
or a special relationship, between plaintiff and defendant.  (Id. at p. 314.)  “There are ‘four circumstances in which nondisclosure
or concealment may constitute actionable fraud: (1) when the defendant is in a fiduciary
relationship with the plaintiff; (2) when the defendant had exclusive knowledge
of material facts not known to the plaintiff; (3) when the defendant actively conceals
a material fact from the plaintiff; and (4) when the defendant makes partial representations
but also suppresses some material facts.’” 
(Id. at p. 311.)
Cross-Defendants
argue that there are no particular facts and there was no duty owed to Cross-Complainant.  Safeco and Liberty were not parties to the Temporary
Housing Agreement between ALE Solutions and Malekan.  (See Cross-Complaint, Ex. 1.)  All Cross-Defendants were not parties to the rental
lease.  (See Cross-Complaint, Ex. 2.)  Cross-Complainants allege only that Cross-Defendants
“never notified Cross-Complainants that this [Malekan’s inability to access the
property] was an issue,” “concealed this information,” and “were in a business relationship”
with Cross-Complainants.  (Cross-Complaint
¶¶ 20, 43.)  There are no allegations about
any duty owed by Cross-Defendants to Cross-Complainants.
The
demurrers to the third cause of action are sustained.
E.        Cross-Complainants
Cannot Allege Contribution (Fourth Cause of Action).
“A
right of contribution can come into existence only after rendition of a judgment
declaring more than one defendant jointly liable to the plaintiff.”  (Coca-Cola Bottling Co. v. Lucky Stores, Inc.
(1992) 11 Cal.App.4th 1372, 1378; see also General Electric Co. v. State of Cal.
ex rel. Dept. Pub. Wks. (1973) 32 Cal.App.3d 918, 925; Code Civ. Proc., § 875,
subd. (a).)
Cross-Defendants
note that they are not parties to Malekan’s underlying TAC, so there is not and
will not be any judgment against them as joint tortfeasors with Cross-Complainants.
Cross-Complainants
argue, without any citation to authority, that “[a]ny possible damages to Cross-Complainants
are a result of Cross-Defendant’s actions or inactions and thus would make Cross-Defendant
a joint tortfeasor responsible for any possible damages.”  There is still no basis for a future judgment
in favor of Malekan and jointly against Cross-Complainants and Cross-Defendants.
The
demurrers to the fourth cause of action are sustained without leave to amend.
F.         The Indemnity Claims
Are Insufficiently Pleaded (Fifth, Sixth Causes of Action).
Equitable
indemnity “applies only among defendants who are jointly and severally liable to
the plaintiff.  [Citation.]  [J]oint and several liability in the context of
equitable indemnity is fairly expansive. 
We agree it is not limited to ‘the old common term “joint tortfeasor” . .
. .’  It can apply to acts that are concurrent
or successive, joint or several, as long as they create a detriment caused by several
actors.”  (BFGC Architects Planners, Inc.
v. Forcum/Mackey Construction, Inc. (2004) 119 Cal.App.4th 848, 852.)  “With limited exception, there must be some basis
for tort liability against the proposed indemnitor.”  (Ibid.)
“Implied
contractual indemnity is applied to contract parties and is designed to apportion
loss among contract parties based on the concept that one who enters a contract
agrees to perform the work carefully and to discharge foreseeable damages resulting
from that breach.”  (Smoketree-Lake Murray,
Ltd. v. Mills Concrete Construction Co. (1991) 234 Cal.App.3d 1724, 1736.)  “‘[A] claim for implied contractual indemnity
is a form of equitable indemnity subject to the rules governing equitable indemnity
claims’ [citation]. . . . [A]n implied contractual indemnity claim, like a traditional
equitable indemnity claim, is subject to the American Motorcycle rule that
a party’s liability for equitable indemnity is based on its proportional share
of responsibility for the damages to the injured party.”  (Prince v. Pacific Gas & Electric Co.
(2009) 45 Cal.4th 1151, 1165.)  “Traditional
equitable indemnity and implied contractual indemnity share a key feature that distinguishes
them from express indemnity: unlike express indemnity, neither traditional equitable
indemnity nor implied contractual indemnity is available ‘in the absence of a joint
legal obligation to the injured party.’  [Citation.]  Under this principle, ‘“‘there can be no indemnity
without liability,’”’ that is, the indemnitee and the indemnitor must share liability
for the injury.”  (Jocer Enterprises, Inc.
v. Price (2010) 183 Cal.App.4th 559, 573.)
The
Cross-Complaint seeks indemnity “[i]n the event that Cross-Complainants are held
liable to Malekan, or to anyone else, for damages as a result of the incidents and
occurrences alleged in Malekan’s Complaint.” 
(Cross-Complaint ¶ 59.)  There is no
basis for Cross-Defendants’ liability to Malekan, and thus no joint liability with
Cross-Defendants.  Additionally, there is
no contractual relationship between Cross-Complainants and Cross-Defendants.  The only contracts are between Malekan and ALE
Solutions, and Cross-Complainants and Malekan.
The
demurrers to the fifth and sixth causes of action are sustained without leave to
amend.
MOTION
TO STRIKE
The
court may, upon a motion or at any time in its discretion: (1) strike out any irrelevant,
false, or improper matter inserted in any pleading; or (2) strike out all or any
part of any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of California,
a court rule, or an order of the court.  (Code
Civ. Proc., § 436, subds. (a)-(b).)
ALE
Solutions moves to strike the Cross-Complaint because Cross-Complainants did not
have leave of Court to file it.
A
party must file any cross-complaint against any of the parties who filed the complaint
before or at the same time as the answer. 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 428.50, subd. (a).) 
ALE Solutions did not first file a complaint against Cross-Defendants.
Any
other cross-complaint may be filed at any time before the Court has set a date for
trial.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 428.50, subd.
(b).)  The Court first set a trial date on
January 7, 2022, but this Cross-Complaint was not filed until February 21, 2024.
Accordingly,
Cross-Complainants were required to obtain leave of Court before filing their Cross-Complaint.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 428.50, subd. (c).)  The motion to strike is granted on this ground.
In
the interest of judicial efficiency, the Court will not require Cross-Complainants
to file a new motion for leave to file a cross-complaint.  The Court grants Cross-Complainants leave to file
an amended cross-complaint against Cross-Defendants.
CONCLUSION
The
demurrers are SUSTAINED.  The motion to strike
is GRANTED.
Cross-Complainants
are granted 30 days’ leave to amend the first, second, and third causes of action.  No leave to amend is granted for the fourth, fifth,
and sixth causes of action.
Moving
party to give notice.
Parties
who intend to submit on this tentative must send an email to the Court at SMCDEPT48@lacourt.org
indicating intention to submit.  If all parties
in the case submit on the tentative ruling, no appearances before the Court are
required unless a companion hearing (for example, a Case Management Conference)
is also on calendar.
 
        
Dated this 10th day of October 2024
 




 


 




 


Hon. Thomas D. Long
Judge of the Superior
  Court
 




 