 Case Number:  23STCV25669    Hearing Date:   October 10, 2024    Dept:  48  
 
 
SUPERIOR
COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



CARLICE ETAME, 
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
 
INLAND EMPIRE HEALTH PLAN A CORPORATION,
 
                        Defendant.


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


     
  CASE NO.: 23STCV25669
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER SUSTAINING DEMURRER;
  GRANTING MOTION TO STRIKE
 
Dept. 48
8:30 a.m.
October 10, 2024



 
On
December 8, 2023, Plaintiff Carlice Etame filed a first amended complaint (“FAC”)
against Defendant Inland Empire Health Plan, alleging (1) breach of contract; (2)
medical negligence; (3) intentional infliction of emotional distress “(IIED”); and
(4) negligent infliction of emotional distress (“NIED”).
On
February 8, 2024, Defendant filed a demurrer and motion to strike.
REQUEST
FOR JUDICIAL NOTICE
Defendant’s
request for judicial notice of IEHP’s 2024 Member Handbook is denied.  The Court disagrees with Defendant that it is
an “official act” of a government agency and that “[n]otice is also proper because
the document is available online and is ‘not reasonably subject to dispute and is
capable of immediate and accurate determination by resort to sources of reasonably
indisputable accuracy.’”  Information on websites,
even official governmental agency websites, can be reasonably subject to dispute
and are not proper subjects for judicial notice.  (Jolley v. Chase Home Finance, LLC (2013)
213 Cal.App.4th 872, 888-889; see also Huitt v. Southern Cal. Gas Co. (2010)
188 Cal.App.4th 1586, 1605 fn. 10.)
The
Court does, however, take judicial notice of the fact that Defendant is a not-for-profit
Medicare-Medicaid public health plan.
DEMURRER
A
demurrer for sufficiency tests whether the complaint states a cause of action.  (Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 740,
747.)  When
considering demurrers, courts read the allegations liberally and in context, accepting
the alleged facts as true.  (Nolte v.
Cedars-Sinai Medical Center (2015) 236 Cal.App.4th 1401, 1406.)  “Because a demurrer challenges
defects on the face of the complaint, it can only refer to matters outside the pleading
that are subject to judicial notice.”  (Arce
ex rel. Arce v. Kaiser Found. Health Plan, Inc. (2010) 181 Cal.App.4th 471,
556.)
A.        The FAC Does Not Allege Compliance With
the Government Claims Act.
Under
the Government Claims Act, no person may sue a public entity or public employee
for money or damages unless a timely written claim has been presented to and denied
by the public entity.  (County of Los Angeles
v. Superior Court (2005) 127 Cal.App.4th 1263, 1267.)  Absent an applicable exception, failure to timely
present a claim for money or damages to a public entity bars a plaintiff from filing
suit against that entity bars a plaintiff from filing a lawsuit against that entity.  (State of California v. Superior Court
(2004) 32 Cal.4th 1234, 1239.)
Defendant
correctly notes that Plaintiff does not allege compliance with, nor exemption from,
the Government Claims Act.  (Demurrer at pp.
7-8.)
The
demurrer is sustained on this ground.
B.        The FAC Does Not Allege Any Statutory
Basis for the Second, Third, and Fourth Causes of Action.
A
public entity is not liable for an injury arising from an act or omission of the
entity, a public employee, or any other person except as provided by statute.  (Gov. Code, § 815.)
Defendant
argues that it is immune from the second, third, and fourth causes of action (medical
negligence, IIED, and NIED), which lack a statutory basis.  (Demurrer at p. 10.)
The
demurrer to the second, third, and fourth causes of action is sustained on this
ground.
C.        The First, Second, and Third Causes of
Action Lack Sufficient Facts.
Defendant
argues that the first, second, and third causes of action are insufficiently pleaded.  (Demurrer at pp. 11-12.)
The
first cause of action alleges breach of contract.  The standard elements of a claim for breach of
contract are (1) the contract, (2) plaintiff’s performance or excuse for nonperformance,
(3) defendant’s breach, and (4) damage to plaintiff therefrom.  (Wall Street Network, Ltd. v. New York Times
Co. (2008) 164 Cal.App.4th 1171, 1178.) 
“A written contract may be pleaded by its terms—set out verbatim in the complaint
or a copy of the contract attached to the complaint and incorporated therein by
reference—or by its legal effect.”  (McKell
v. Washington Mutual, Inc. (2006) 142 Cal.App.4th 1457, 1489.)  To plead a contract by its legal effect, a plaintiff
must “allege the substance of its relevant terms.  This is more difficult, for it requires a careful
analysis of the instrument, comprehensiveness in statement, and avoidance of legal
conclusions.”  (Ibid.)  Plaintiff alleges that she “entered into a valid
insurance contract, the Policy, with Defendant” and diligently paid all premiums,
but Defendant “unreasonably and unjustifiably refused to fulfill its obligation
to pay for medically necessary treatments for Plaintiff.”  (FAC at p. 10.)  This does not sufficiently allege the terms of
the contract.
The
second cause of action alleges medical negligence.  In a medical malpractice action, a plaintiff must establish the
following elements: “(1) the duty of the professional to use such skill, prudence,
and diligence as other members of his profession commonly possess and exercise;
(2) a breach of that duty; (3) a proximate causal connection between the negligent
conduct and the resulting injury; and (4) actual loss or damage resulting from the
professional’s negligence.  [Citations.]”  (Galvez v. Frields (2001) 88 Cal.App.4th 1410,
1420.)  The FAC alleges that when Plaintiff’s
daughter was treated at Loma Linda Children’s Hospital and the Center for Discovery,
Defendant did not pay for some of her treatment, often requested her early release,
did not provide adequate information, and forced the Center for Discovery to stop
the treatment early.  However, Defendant provides
insurance, not direct medical treatment. 
(See, e.g., FAC at pp. 5, 8, 13, 15.) 
Plaintiff alleges that she and Defendant “entered a formal health insurance
/patient relationship, a confidential and fiduciary relationship.”  (FAC at p. 8.)  Plaintiff cannot allege medical negligence against
an insurer who is not a medical provider.
The third cause of action alleges IIED.  “‘[T]o state a cause of action
for intentional infliction of emotional distress a plaintiff must show: (1) outrageous
conduct by the defendant; (2) the defendant’s intention of causing or reckless disregard
of the probability of causing emotional distress; (3) the plaintiff’s suffering
severe or extreme emotional distress; and (4) actual and proximate causation of
the emotional distress by the defendant’s outrageous conduct.’  [Citation.] 
‘Conduct, to be ‘outrageous’ must be so extreme as to exceed all bounds of
that usually tolerated in a civilized society.’ 
[Citation.]”  (Huntingdon Life Sciences,
Inc. v. Stop Huntingdon Animal Cruelty USA, Inc. (2005) 129 Cal.App.4th 1228,
1259.)  When a plaintiff does not suffer physical
injury, the conduct must involve “extreme and outrageous intentional invasions of
one’s mental and emotional tranquility.” 
(Alcorn v. Anbro Engineering, Inc. (1970) 2 Cal.3d 493, 498.)  The FAC alleges that Defendant “did not care”
about Plaintiff’s daughter’s treatment, refused to pay, went against doctor recommendations,
and “stopped the treatment after we talked with them, intentionally inflicting emotional
distress on parents and family.”  (FAC at
pp. 15-16.)  These are not sufficient facts
to allege extreme and outrageous conduct.
The
demurrer to the first, second, and third causes of action is sustained on this
ground.
MOTION
TO STRIKE
The
court may, upon a motion or at any time in its discretion: (1) strike out any
irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted in any pleading; or (2) strike
out all or any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity with the
laws of California, a court rule, or an order of the court.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 436, subds. (a)-(b).)
Defendant
moves to strike allegations relating to punitive damages.  A public entity is not liable for punitive
damages or other damages imposed primarily for the sake of example and by way
of punishing the defendant.  (Gov. Code,
§ 818.)
The
motion to strike is granted.
CONCLUSION
The
demurrer is SUSTAINED.  The motion to
strike is GRANTED.
Plaintiff
did not file any opposition and therefore did not show any ability to amend the
FAC to cure its deficiencies.  Accordingly,
no leave to amend is granted.
This
action is DISMISSED.
Moving
party to give notice.
Parties
who intend to submit on this tentative must send an email to the Court at SMCDEPT48@lacourt.org
indicating intention to submit.  If all parties
in the case submit on the tentative ruling, no appearances before the Court are
required unless a companion hearing (for example, a Case Management Conference)
is also on calendar.
 
        
Dated this 10th day of October 2024
 




 


 




 


Hon. Thomas D. Long
Judge of the Superior
  Court
 




 