 Case Number:  23GDCV00284    Hearing Date:   December 8, 2023    Dept:  D TENTATIVE RULINGCalendar:     8 Date:           12/8/2023   Case No: 23 GDCV00284 Trial Date: None Set Case Name: Paez v. Alta Construction, Inc., et al.  DEMURRER TO CROSS-COMPLAINTMOTION TO STRIKE  Moving Party:             Cross-Defendant Infinity Insurance Company      Responding Party: Cross-Complainant 330 North Brand, Inc.      RELIEF REQUESTED:   Sustain demurrer to first through third causes of action of cross-complaint     Strike attorney’s fees    CAUSES OF ACTION:  from Cross-Complaint   1) Express Indemnity 2) Implied Indemnity 3) Contribution4) Declaratory Relief SUMMARY OF FACTS: Plaintiff Julieta Paez has filed this action alleging that in February of 2021, plaintiff walked into a commercial building located on private property on Brand Boulevard owned, operated, maintained, and controlled by defendants Alta Construction and UBS Realty Investors LLC.  Plaintiff alleges that while moving into the facility on surfaces and other points of passage intended for public use, plaintiff slipped and fell due to oil that was on the floor, and fell to the ground, sustaining injuries.   Plaintiff alleges that defendants’ employees did not take steps prior to plaintiff’s fall to maintain dry walking surfaces, did not place any caution tape or safety cones near the area, and did not place a monitor to direct patrons to avoid the hazard.   On March 7, 2023, plaintiff filed an Amendment to Complaint, substituting the true name of defendant 330 North Brand, Inc. for the fictitious name of Doe 1.  Defendant 330 North Brand has filed a cross-complaint for indemnity against Alta Construction, Inc. and Roes 1 to 100, alleging that cross-defendants are legally responsible for the acts, occurrences, and damages alleged and are required, and obligated, and should be ordered to indemnify and hold harmless cross-complainant from any and all damages assessed against them by way of plaintiff’s complaint.  On August 8, 2023, cross-complainant filed an amendment to cross-complaint, substituting the true name of cross-defendant Infinity Insurance Company for the fictitious name of Roe 1.  ANALYSIS:ProceduralUntimely Under CCP §436, the court may “upon motion made pursuant to Section 435, or at any time in its discretion” strike out “all or any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of this state, a court rule or an order of the court.”   Under CCP §435, a party may serve and file a notice of motion to strike “within the time allowed to respond to a pleading…”  Under CCP §430.40, the time permitted to demur to a cross-complaint is “within 30 days after service of the…cross- complaint…” CRC Rule 3.110(d) provides:“The parties may stipulate without leave of court to one 15-day extension beyond the 30-day time period prescribed for the response after service of the initial complaint.” Here, the file shows the cross-complaint was served by personal service on August 11, 2023.  Thirty days from this date would have been September 10, 2023.  The demurrer and motion to strike were filed and served on October 16, 2023, thirty-six days late, and beyond the maximum fifteen-day period the parties were permitted to agree to an extension for the response without leave of court.  The demurrer could be sustained, and the motion to strike denied, on this ground alone, but the court elects not to do so.SubstantiveDemurrerFirst Cause of Action—Express Indemnity  Cross-defendant Infinity Insurance Company argues that the cause of action for express indemnity is not sufficiently stated because the pleading alleges that the claim is based on a written contract, but cross-complainant has failed to plead the terms of the alleged contract verbatim or to attach a copy of the written agreement.  Here, contrary to the argument in the demurrer, the cross-complaint does not in fact allege that the express indemnity cause of action is based on a written contract.  Cross-defendant relies on legal authority under which it is generally required that where liability is based on a written contract, a copy of the written contract be attached to the pleading, or the terms set forth verbatim.  In Otworth v. Southern Pacific Transportation Co. (1985) 166 Cal.App.3d 452, 459, the Second District stated:“If the action is based on an alleged breach of a written contract, the terms must be set out verbatim in the body of the complaint or a copy of the written instrument must be attached or incorporated by reference.”Otworth, at 459 (citations omitted).  Cross-complainant in the opposition argues that the breach of express indemnity claim is sufficiently stated, as it is alleged that cross-defendant is obligated to indemnify cross-complainant, and there is no need to state the terms of the contract verbatim.  Cross-complainant relies on Oasis West Realty, LLC v. Goldman (2011) 51 Cal.4th 811, 821, in which the California Supreme Court did not address the issue of to what degree of specificity the terms of a contract need to be pleaded, but stated, in evaluating an anti-SLAPP motion, and without further discussion of the breach of contract cause of action, the elements of a breach of contract claim as follows:“And the elements of a cause of action for breach of contract are (1) the existence of the contract, (2) plaintiff's performance or excuse for nonperformance, (3) defendant's breach, and (4) the resulting damages to the plaintiff.”Oasis West, at 821.  The contract at issue in Oasis West was not an indemnity contract, and it is generally held that to state a cause of action for express indemnity, the complaint must allege:1) A contract between the parties under which one party undertakes to hold the other party harmless against claims or damages arising out of the occurrence of specified circumstances.2) Third party claim against the indemnitee on account of one of the circumstances specified in the contract3) Breach of indemnitor; and 4) Damages to indemnitee.Rossmoor Sanitation, Inc. v. Pylon, Inc.   (1975) 13 Cal.3d 622, 628.   The cross-complaint here is very terse, and the first cause of action does not clearly allege the existence of a contract, cross-complainant’s performance, cross-defendant’s breach or resulting damages.  The cross-complaint at best alleges that “any liability of cross-complainant will be imputed on the basis of vicarious or secondary liability and not as a result of any active negligence or any other acts on the part of Cross-Complainant.”  [Cross-Complaint, para. 8].  The moving cross-defendant has been added by Roe Amendment, so that multiple cross-defendants are involved, and likely multiple express indemnity agreements.  Cross-complainant has not argued that it is not in possession of any contract or the facts under which a contractual indemnity obligation arose on the part of the moving cross-defendant.  Accordingly, the demurrer to the cause of action is sustained with one opportunity to amend to more clearly allege the express indemnity cause of action, and the express indemnity provision upon which cross-complainant relies, or to set forth facts explaining why cross-complainant cannot specifically allege the terms of that agreement. Second Cause of Action—Implied Indemnity and Third Cause of Action—Contribution  Cross-defendant argues that equitable claims cannot be asserted concurrently with an express indemnity claim, as if the parties have expressly contracted with respect to the duty to indemnify, the extent of that duty must be determined from the contract and not from the independent doctrine of equitable indemnity.  Cross-defendant argues that by entering into an alleged express indemnity provision, cross-complainant North Brand has bargained away access to implied indemnity and contribution in favor of contractual remedies.  As pointed out in the opposition, the authorities relied upon limit a party’s remedies to express indemnity if such indemnity is ultimately found to apply, which is not yet the case in this matter, and cross-defendant has properly alleged the claims for equitable indemnity and contribution in the alternative, in the event there is no express indemnity found to apply.   See Regional Steel Corp. v. Superior Court (1994) 25 Cal.App.4th 525 (court of appeal granted subcontractor’s writ of mandate and ordered trial court to grant a motion for summary judgment in favor of subcontractor in an action filed by general contractor seeking equitable indemnity).   Regional Steel was determined on summary judgment, not on demurrer, and the instant case has not yet advanced to a position where evidence of any express indemnity provision is before the court and subject to interpretation with respect to its validity and effect.       Under the liberal rules of pleading, parties are permitted to plead duplicative, alternative, or even inconsistent causes of action.   See Jackson v. County of Los Angeles (1997, 2nd Dist.) 60 Cal.App.4th 171, 177, 180; Adams v. Paul (1995) 11 Cal.4th 583, 593 (“a party may plead in the alternative and may make inconsistent allegations.”).    Assertion of the doctrine limiting recovery to the express agreement between the parties is accordingly premature at this point, and the demurrer on this ground is overruled.  Motion to Strike Cross-defendant seeks to strike the allegations and prayer for attorney’s fees included in the cross-complaint. With respect to claims for attorneys’ fees, CCP section 1021 provides in pertinent part:“Except as attorney’s fees are specifically provided for by statute, the measure and mode of compensation of attorneys and counselors at law is left to the agreement, express or implied, of the parties...” Cross-defendant argues that the cross-complaint does not allege any basis for attorney’s fees, but the only mention of fees is a request in the prayer as to each cause of action.   Cross-complainant in opposition argues that there is a contractual or statutory basis for the recovery of attorney’s fees, seeming to argue that cross-defendant has a contractual obligation for the recovery of attorney’s fees.  As discussed above, the cross-complaint is very broad, and does not specifically allege any terms of the alleged express agreement, including any term which would provide for an award of attorney’s fees.  The pleading does not allege any statutory basis for an award of fees.  The motion accordingly is granted with leave to amend to more clearly allege the basis for any allegations and prayers involving attorney’s fees.  RULING:Demurrer by Cross-Defendant Infinity Insurance Company to the Cross-Complaint of 330 North Brand, Inc.:The Court notes that the demurrer is untimely, filed and served thirty-six days late.  Counsel for cross-defendant is cautioned that in the future the Court may refuse to consider pleadings not filed in conformity with the statutes, rules and procedures governing this litigation. Demurrer is OVERRULED to the second cause of action for implied indemnity and third cause of action for contribution.Demurrer is SUSTAINED WITH LEAVE TO AMEND to the first cause of action on the ground the cause of action does not clearly allege the existence of an express indemnity agreement with the moving cross-defendant, its nature, terms, or other elements of an express indemnity cause of action.  On amendment, if there are facts explaining why the terms cannot be attached or alleged verbatim, those facts must be alleged.  Ten days leave to amend. Infinity Insurance Company’s Motion to Strike Portions of 330 North Brand, Inc.’s Cross-Complaint:The Court notes that the motion to strike is untimely, filed and served thirty-six days late.  Counsel for cross-defendant is cautioned that in the future the Court may refuse to consider pleadings not filed in conformity with the statutes, rules and procedures governing this litigation. Motion is GRANTED WITH LEAVE TO AMEND on the ground the cross-complaint seeks attorney’s fees but does not sufficiently allege that such fees are specifically provided for by statute, or by agreement of the parties.  Ten days leave to amend. The parties are ordered to meet and confer in full compliance with CCP §§ 430.41 and 435.5 before any further demurrer or motion to strike may be filed.   DEPARTMENT D IS CONTINUING TO CONDUCT AND ENCOURAGE 