  Case Number:  20GDCV00485    Hearing Date:   December 8, 2023    Dept:  D TENTATIVE RULINGCalendar:  2 Date: 12/8/2023 Case No. 20 GDCV00485 Trial Date: None Set  Case Name: Zang v. Jun, et al. MOTION TO BE RELIEVED AS COUNSELMoving Party: A.H. Chan Law Firm, PC Name of Client: Defendant David Chang (No Opposition)  Correct address in proof of service?     Client: ok, Not Notice of Ruling     Other parties:  ok, Incomplete Notice of Ruling RELIEF REQUESTED: Order permitting attorney to be relieved as attorney of record in this action GROUNDS FOR MOTION:Client has made no response to attempted communications.  Request for consent ignored.  Client is in breach of legal services agreement for not maintaining communications and not paying additional deposit as agreed. This matter was originally noticed for and heard on October 27, 2023.  At the hearing, there was no appearance by or for defendant David Chang, or evidently for moving party, A.H. Chan Law Firm, PC.  The court had issued a tentative ruling via posting on LACourt.org website, which was to grant the motion and sign the proposed order with specified modifications to be made by moving counsel.  There being no appearance by or for defendant Chang, the court continued the hearing on the motion to this date, along with a Trial Setting Conference and an OSC re: why Sanctions Should not be Imposed against Counsel for Defendant Chang for Failure to Appear.Counsel Liang was ordered to give notice. On October 27, 2023, Counsel Liang served Notice of Ruling, giving notice of the court’s orders concerning the OSC and the Trial Setting Conference.  The Notice does not indicate that the motion to relieved as counsel is to be heard this date.  The Notice has also not been served on the client, defendant David Chang.   DECLARATION BY MOVING ATTORNEY: Reasons why motion is necessary:    ok  Address recently confirmed (within last 30 days)  By California Secretary of State website.  Chang represented he is director and owner of Meiju Group LLC and uses the same address.    PROPOSED ORDER:Address and phone number of client set forth:    ok   Proper warning:  ok Future dates filled in:     Not Current   ANALYSIS:No Notice to Client This motion was originally scheduled and noticed to be heard on October 27, 2023.  As noted above, at that hearing, the matter was continued to this date, and counsel for co-defendants was ordered to give notice.  It appears that the parties in attendance otherwise waived notice. As noted, the Notice does not give notice of the continued hearing on the motion to be relieved as counsel.  Moreover, the notice was not served on the client, the client did not appear at the hearing and did not waive notice, and the moving party has not submitted a notice or proof of service showing that the client has been given notice of the new hearing date. Under CCP § 284:“The attorney in an action or special proceeding may be changed at any time before or after judgment or final determination, as follows:1.  Upon the consent of both client and attorney, filed with the clerk, or entered upon the minutes;2. Upon the order of the court, upon application of either client or attorney, after notice from one to the other.” (emphasis added).  Under CRC 3.1362(d), with respect to a motion to be relieved as counsel:“The notice of motion and motion, the declaration, and the proposed order must be served on the client and on all other parties who have appeared in the case.  The notice may be by personal service, electronic service, or mail.There is no proof that notice has been given to the client of the hearing on this motion by any of the required methods.  The motion is denied or continued to permit proper notice to be served on the client.  Substantive If proper notice can be shown, as noted in the previous tentative ruling, the proposed order is not current here and should be modified before the order is signed.   Specifically, the next scheduled hearing in this action listed at paragraph has already occurred, so should be stricken.  The new dates were set for this date, December 8, 2023.   If at the December 8, 2023 hearing regarding the OSC and Trial Setting Conference new dates are set, those dates should be inserted as appropriate at paragraphs 7, 8 and 9.     Counsel is ordered to modify the order before the motion will be granted. RULING:[No Opposition]Motion to be Relieved as Counsel is CONTINUED.  There is no record of the client having been given notice of this hearing date. Or, if service of notice shown:UNOPPOSED Motion to be Relieved as Counsel is GRANTED. The Court will sign the proposed Order Granting Attorney’s Motion to be Relieved as Counsel-Civil with the following modifications: The Court notes that in  in paragraph 7 of the Order, the hearing listed has already occurred, the Order will strike reference to the August 29, 2023 hearing, and indicate at paragraphs 7-8 of the Order  the dates set at the Trial Setting Conference scheduled in this matter on December 8, 2023, to be heard with the current motion. As modified, the Court will sign the Order and counsel will be relieved effective upon the efiling of the proof of service of the signed order upon the client. DEPARTMENT D IS CONTINUING TO CONDUCT AND ENCOURAGE AUDIO OR VIDEO APPEARANCESPlease make arrangement in advance if you wish to appear via LACourtConnect by visiting www.lacourt.org to schedule a remote appearance.  Please note that LACourtConnect offers free audio and video appearances.  However, ADVANCE REGISTRATION IS REQUIRED. If no appearance is set up through LACourtConnect, or no appearance is otherwise made, then the Court will assume the parties are submitting on the tentative. 