 Case Number:  21GDCV01289    Hearing Date:   December 8, 2023    Dept:  D TENTATIVE RULINGCalendar:     3  Date:           12/8/2023    Case No: 21 GDCV01289 Trial Date:   None Set Case Name: Ando v. Cox, et al.MOTION FOR SUBSTITION OF PERSONAL REPRESENTATIVE  Moving Party:                Plaintiff Kurt Ando   Responding Party:    Defendants Jim Cox, Estate of Marie Bernardini, et al.   RELIEF REQUESTED:  Order substituting Travis Cox as a party defendant in this action in place of defendant Jim Cox, deceased, in his capacity as Personal Representative of the Estate of Jim Cox.SUMMARY OF FACTS:The complaint alleges that Ivy Fung, the mother of plaintiff Kurt Takashi Ando, created a Revocable Trust in 2016.   Ivy Fung was the Trustee, with successor Trustees being plaintiff and/or Marie Bernardini.   The Trust was created by Ivy Fung after she was diagnosed with terminal illness, and was revocable until her death, after which the Trust became irrevocable and all Trust property was to be handed over to her only child and next of kin, plaintiff.   Ivy Fung transferred her real property in La Crescenta to the Trust.  The complaint alleges that Marie Bernardini had been named as a successor trustee by connections between Ivy Fung, Bernardini, defendant Chaba Monari and defendant Church of Scientology.  Plaintiff alleges that trust funds were used to pay defendant Monari over $200,000 a year from 2016-2017, and that following the death of Ivy Fung, Marie Bernardini began encumbering the property with loans facilitated by other defendants, used trust funds and loans to pay off her personal obligations, transferred funds to her company defendant Realty Home Solutions, and that following Marie Bernardini’s death, Bernardini’s husband defendant Jim Cox sold the property to a bona fide purchaser.  The trust was depleted of all funds with the exception of $3,000.   The complaint also alleges that defendant Cox removed personal property of Ivy Fung from the property, including expensive jewelry.   The complaint alleges causes of action for breach of fiduciary duty, conspiracy, conversion, and negligence.  The file shows that on October 6, 2022, the court heard an OSC re: Default Judgment/Default Prove Up, at which the court was informed that defendant Jim Cox Sr. was deceased, with decedent’s son, James Cox Jr. being present in court.  The court ordered the OSC discharged and stayed the case “in its entirety, pending the disposition of the probate case.”On September 11, 2023, the court conducted a Status Conference Re: Stay/Probate Case/Status of Successor in Interest, at which Travis Cox, son of decedent, was present in court.  The court ordered the stay previously ordered to remain in full force and effect pending the hearing on the motion scheduled for this date, December 8, 2023. ANALYSIS:Plaintiff brings this motion seeking an order substituting Travis Cox as party defendant in this action in place of defendant Jim Cox, deceased, in the capacity of Travis Cox as the personal representative of the Estate of Jim Cox. CCP § 377.20 (a) provides that “a cause of action for or against a person is not lost by reason of the person’s death but survives subject to the applicable statute of limitations period.”  CCP § 377.21 provides “A pending action or proceeding does not abate by the death of a party if the cause of action survives.”  There is no challenge here that the causes of action do not survive.    CCP section 377.40 provides that:“Subject to part 4 (commencing with section 9000) of Division 7 of the Probate Code governing creditor claims, a cause of action against a decedent that survives may be asserted against the decedent’s personal representative...” CCP section 377.41 provides that:“On motion, the court shall allow a pending action or proceeding against the decedent that does not abate to be continued against the decedent’s personal representative...except that the court may not permit an action or proceeding to be continued against the personal representative unless proof of compliance with Part 4 (commencing with Section 9000) of Division 7 of the Probate Code governing creditor claims is first made.”    Probate Code section 9351 provides:“An action may not be commenced against a decedent’s personal representative on a cause of action against the decedent unless a claim is first filed as provided in this part and the claim is rejected in whole or in part.” Plaintiff relies on Probate Code Section 9370, which provides: “(a) An action or proceeding pending against the decedent at the time of death may not be continued against the decedent's personal representative unless all of the following conditions are satisfied:(1) A claim is first filed as provided in this part.(2) The claim is rejected in whole or in part.(3) Within three months after the notice of rejection is given, the plaintiff applies to the court in which the action or proceeding is pending for an order to substitute the personal representative in the action or proceeding. This paragraph applies only if the notice of rejection contains a statement that the plaintiff has three months within which to apply for an order for substitution.(b) No recovery shall be allowed in the action against property in the decedent's estate unless proof is made of compliance with this section.The motion here states that plaintiff opened a probate proceeding for decedent on January 23, 2023 and filed a creditor’s claim on January 24, 2023.  The motion also indicates that Travis Cox filed a competing petition and on August 15, 2023 was appointed as personal representative of the estate.  [Shapiro Decl., para.  3, Ex. 1].  The motion states that no rejection or allowance of the creditor’s claim has been made to date, and argues that under Probate Code section 9256, a creditor may deem a claim rejected 30 days after it is filed. Probate Code section 9256 provides:“If within 30 days after a claim is filed the personal representative or the court or judge has refused or neglected to act on the claim, the refusal or neglect may, at the option of the creditor, be deemed equivalent to giving a notice of rejection on the 30th day.”  The file shows that the motion here was filed on August 30, 2023.  The problem here is that the showing is incomplete.  There is no evidence submitted confirming that plaintiff filed a creditor’s claim or when it was filed.  Plaintiff’s counsel’s declaration does not address that issue, and no copy of the claim is submitted.   Under Probate Code section 9370, as set forth above, plaintiff must provide “proof” of compliance with the section, including proof that “(1) A claim is first filed,” by plaintiff in accordance with the section.   There is also no evidence supporting plaintiff’s argument that that there was no notice of rejection served, when under subdivision (a)(2), plaintiff must provide proof that the claim has been “rejected in whole or in part.”  Without proof of a notice of rejection, or lack thereof, the court also cannot confirm that subdivision (a)(3) does not apply here, requiring plaintiff to have applied to the court for an order to substitute the personal representative, “within three months after the notice of rejection is given,” if the notice contains a statement with this requirement.  The evidence submitted with the motion consists of a declaration of plaintiff’s counsel, in which counsel states when the complaint in this action was filed and served, and default entered, but does not address plaintiff’s claim in the probate court. [Shapiro Decl., paras. 1-3].  The declaration provides evidence concerning the appointment of the personal representative, stating, “On August 15, 2023, the Probate Court appointed Travis Ethan Cox as Personal Representative of the Estate. A true and correct copy of the Minute Order from Probate Case 23STPB00726 is attached hereto as Exhibit 1.”[Shapiro Decl., para. 3]. Plaintiff’s counsel submits a copy of a minute order in the Probate Action, 23 STPB00726, In re: Cox, James Gilbert, III- Decedent, dated August 15, 2023 in which Travis Ethan Cox was appointed personal representative of the estate:“The Petition - Probate of Lost Will (Subsequent) filed on 6/1/2023 by Travis Ethan Cox is granted. Travis Ethan Cox is/are appointed Personal Representative(s) of the Estate with limited IAEA. Bond is ordered in the amount of $307,000.00.The Will dated February 16, 2007 is admitted to probate.”[Shapiro Decl., para. 3, Ex. 1].   While this information is helpful in terms of showing the appointment and identity of the personal representative, plaintiff’s showing is incomplete without an evidentiary showing concerning plaintiff’s advance submission of a claim to probate and the circumstances of its rejection.  It is possible plaintiff intended to submit this showing, as the memorandum refers to Exhibits 1-4 to the Shapiro Declaration, when there is only one Exhibit, Exhibit 1, submitted. The court remains concerned that Probate Code section 9370    subdivision (b) expressly provides:“(b) No recovery shall be allowed in the action against property in the decedent's estate unless proof is made of compliance with this section.” It would appear that without a proper showing by proof, any recovery by plaintiff against the property in the estate would not be allowed in this action.  The motion accordingly is continued for the submission of evidentiary proof supporting plaintiff’s arguments that a claim has been made, was rejected, and which purported rejection included no language triggering the three-month time frame for moving to name the personal representative. RULING:[No Opposition]Motion for Substitution of Personal Representative is CONTINUED to January 12, 2024.   Plaintiff has failed to submit evidentiary proof supporting plaintiff’s arguments that plaintiff has filed a claim in this matter pursuant to the requirements of the Probate Code, that the claim has been rejected or not acted upon, or that the motion now before the court was timely filed, as required under Probate Code Section 9370.    Supplemental declaration and evidence to be filed and served by no later than nine court days prior to the continued hearing date, with responsive papers, if any, to be filed and served no later than five court days prior to the continued hearing date.     The stay of this matter previously ordered is ordered to remain in full force and effect pending the hearing on the motion continued to January 12, 2024, with the sole exception of the filing and service of supplemental papers as ordered above.    DEPARTMENT D IS CONTINUING TO CONDUCT AND ENCOURAGE AUDIO OR VIDEO APPEARANCESPlease make arrangement in advance if you wish to appear via LACourtConnect by visiting www.lacourt.org to schedule a remote appearance.  Please note that LACourtConnect offers free audio and video appearances.  However, ADVANCE REGISTRATION IS REQUIRED. If no appearance is set up through LACourtConnect, or no appearance is otherwise made, then the Court will assume the parties are submitting on the tentative. 