 Case Number:  23GDCV00054    Hearing Date:   December 8, 2023    Dept:  D TENTATIVE RULINGCalendar:     7 Date:           12/8/2023  Case No: 23 GDCV00054  Case Name: Graham v. Ghazy, et al. MOTION TO VACATE  Moving Party:        Defendants Tarik Ghazy, Abdalla Ghazy and Michelle Marjorie Topete Responding Party:   Plaintiff Arnold K. Graham (No Opposition)      RELIEF REQUESTED:   Vacate defaults entered on February 1, 2023 Vacate default judgment entered on February 10, 2023 Order that the court file and all court records of this case be sealed and may not be accessed by any person except the parties, counsel of record, and the court FACTUAL AND PROCEDURAL BACKGROUND:  Plaintiff Arnold Graham filed this action for unlawful detainer against defendants Tarik Ghazy, Abdalla Ghazy, and Michelle Marjorie Topete alleging that the Ghazy defendants entered into a written agreement for the rental of residential premises in La Canada, and that defendant Topete is another person otherwise in possession of the premises.  The complaint alleges that the tenancy was terminated for at-fault just cause, that the Ghazy defendants were served with a 3-day notice to pay rent or quit, and defendants have failed to comply with the requirements of the notice by the date the period in the notice expired. The complaint seeks possession of the premises, costs, past due rent, reasonable attorney fees, forfeiture of the agreement, and damages from December 1, 2022 for each day that defendants remain in possession through entry of judgment. On February 1, 2023, plaintiff filed Requests for Entry of Default as to each of the named defendants, which defaults were entered as requested the same date. On February 10, 2023, the Court signed and filed a Judgment—Unlawful Detainer by Clerk by Default for Possession only in favor of plaintiff Graham and against defendants, entering judgment that plaintiff is entitled to possession of the subject premises.  ANALYSIS:Defendants seek to have the defaults and default judgment set aside based on a stipulation of the parties agreeing to such orders. Defendants indicate that after the judgment for possession only was entered, the parties entered into settlement discussions, which culminated in a written stipulation whereby the parties agreed that defendants would pay rent and remain in the premises through June 30, 2023, on which date they would vacate, and then the parties would stipulate to vacate the defaults and default judgment, seal the file, and dismiss the lawsuit with prejudice.  Defendants argue that in general parties may stipulate to vacate and set aside defaults and default judgments, and request that in the interest of promoting settlements, the court issue the orders stipulated to here. The Stipulation is attached to the motion as Exhibit E, and is executed by the attorneys for each of the parties, and jointly requests:“that the Court vacate and set aside the Defaults and the Default Judgment. The parties further request that this file be sealed as follows: The Court file and all Court records, electronic or otherwise, of this case are ordered sealed until further order of Court and may not be accessed by any person except the Parties, Counsel of record and the Court. [Share Decl., para. 6, Ex. E, Stipulation, para. 6]. The Stipulation also indicates that defendants have fulfilled their obligations under the Stipulation and vacated the premises on June 30, 3023, and that after the stipulation is entered, the proceeding will be dismissed with prejudice.  [Ex. E, Stipulation, para. 4]. The motion cites to CCP section 1161.2, part of Chapter 4 of Part 3 of the CCP, pertaining to summary proceedings for obtaining possession of real property, which provides for the persons to whom the clerk shall allow access to the records filed under the chapter, and expressly states: “This section shall not be construed to prohibit the court from issuing an order that bars access to the court record in an action filed under this chapter if the parties to the action so stipulate.” CCP section 1161.2 (a)(2). The court accordingly accepts the stipulation and issues the orders as requested.  RULING:[No Opposition]UNOPPOSED Motion for Order Vacating and Setting Aside Defaults and Default Judgment and Dismissing Case Pursuant to Stipulation is GRANTED.Pursuant to the Stipulation to Vacate Unlawful Detainer Judgment and Seal the Record, dated and executed on August 17, 2023, the court orders the Default Judgment entered in this matter on February 10, 2023 vacated and set aside, and the Defaults entered on February 1, 2023 as to defendants Tarik Ghazy, Abdalla Ghazy, and Michelle Marjorie Topete also vacated and set aside. The Court further orders that pursuant to Stipulation and CCP section 1161.2 (a)(2), the Court file in this case, and all Court records, electronic or otherwise, of this case are ordered sealed until further order of Court and may not be accessed by any person except the Parties, Counsel of record and the Court.Plaintiff to submit and serve appropriate Request for Dismissal with prejudice.  DEPARTMENT D IS CONTINUING TO CONDUCT AND ENCOURAGE AUDIO OR VIDEO APPEARANCESPlease make arrangement in advance if you wish to appear via LACourtConnect by visiting www.lacourt.org to schedule a remote appearance.  Please note that LACourtConnect offers free audio and video appearances.  However, ADVANCE REGISTRATION IS REQUIRED. If no appearance is set up through LACourtConnect, or no appearance is otherwise made, then the Court will assume the parties are submitting on the tentative. 