 Case Number:  23STCV22061    Hearing Date:   March 21, 2024    Dept:  56  
 
 
SUPERIOR
COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR
THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



JOE STOJKOV, 
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
 
634 HUNTLEY, LLC; DUSTIN POURBABA; 4D
  DEVELOPMENT & INVESTMENTS; CENTURY WEST ASSOCIATES INCORPORATED; JAMSHID KERMANI;
  and DOES 1 through 20, inclusive, 
                                                                             
  
                        Defendants.                               


 


     
  CASE NO.: 23STCV22061
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER RE: 
DEMURRER TO FIRST AMENDED COMPLAINT
 
Date: March 21, 2024
Time: 8:30 a.m.
Dept. 56
 
 



 
MOVING PARTY: Defendants
634 Huntley, LLC, Dustin Pourbaba and 4D Development and Investment (“Demurring
Defendants”)
 
RESPONDING PARTY: Plaintiff
Joe Stojkov (“Plaintiff”)
 
            The Court has considered the moving,
opposition, and reply papers. 
 
BACKGROUND
             On January 2, 2024, Plaintiff filed the
operative First Amended Complaint (“FAC”) against Defendants 634 Huntley, LLC,
Dustin Pourbaba; 4D Development and Investment; Century West Associates
Incorporated; Jamshid Kermani; and DOES 1 through 20, inclusive, (“Defendants”)
for (1) Breach of Contract; (2) Breach of the Implied Covenant of Good Faith
and Fair Dealing; and (3) Negligence. 
 
            On February 5, 2024, Demurring Defendants
filed this instant Demurrer without Strike to the FAC. On March 8, 2024,
Plaintiff filed his opposition. On March 14, 2024, Demurring Defendants filed
their reply. 
 
MEET AND CONFER 
             The Court finds that Demurring Defendants have
satisfied the meet and confer requirement.
 
DISCUSSION
            “The primary function of a pleading
is to give the other party notice so that it may prepare its case [citation],
and a defect in a pleading that otherwise properly notifies a party cannot be
said to affect substantial rights.” (Harris v. City of Santa Monica
(2013) 56 Cal.4th 203, 240.)¿¿ 
 
“A¿demurrer¿tests
the legal sufficiency of the factual allegations in a complaint.” (Ivanoff
v. Bank of America, N.A.¿(2017) 9 Cal.App.5th 719, 725.) The Court looks to
whether “the complaint alleges facts sufficient to state a cause of action or
discloses a complete defense.” (Id.) The Court does not “read passages
from a complaint in isolation; in reviewing a ruling on a demurrer, we read the
complaint ‘as a whole and its parts in their context.’ [Citation.]” (West v.
JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. (2013) 214 Cal.App.4th 780, 804.) The Court
“assume[s] the truth of the properly pleaded factual allegations, facts that
reasonably can be inferred from those expressly pleaded and matters of which
judicial notice has been taken.” (Harris, supra, 56 Cal.4th p.
240.) “The court does not, however, assume the truth of contentions, deductions
or conclusions of law. [Citation.]” (Durell v. Sharp Healthcare (2010)
183 Cal.App.4th 1350, 1358.)¿¿ 
 
            A general demurrer may be brought
under Code of Civil Procedure Section 430.10, subdivision (e) if insufficient
facts are stated to support the cause of action asserted or under section
430.10, subdivision (a), where the court has no jurisdiction of the subject of
the cause of action alleged in the pleading. All other grounds listed in
Section 430.10, including uncertainty under subdivision (f), are special
demurrers. Special demurrers are not allowed in limited jurisdiction courts.
(Code Civ. Proc., § 92, subd. (c).)¿¿ 
 
            Leave to amend must be allowed where
there is a reasonable possibility of successful amendment. (Goodman v.
Kennedy (1976) 18 Cal.3d 335, 348.) The burden is on the complainant to
show the Court that a pleading can be amended successfully. (Id.)¿¿
 
            Demurring Defendants demur to
Plaintiff’s FAC on the grounds that the second and third causes of action (1)
fail to state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action and (2) are uncertain,
ambiguous and unintelligible. 
 
Second Cause of Action for Breach of Implied Covenant
of Good Faith and Fair Dealing
“The
[implied] covenant of good faith and fair dealing [is] implied by law in every
contract. The covenant is read into contracts and functions ‘as a supplement
to the express contractual covenants, to prevent a contracting party from
engaging in conduct which (while not technically transgressing the express
covenants) frustrates the other party's rights to the benefits of the
contract.’” (Thrifty Payless, Inc. v. The Americana at Brand, LLC (2013)
218 Cal.App.4th 1230, 1244.) As such, “A breach of the implied covenant of good
faith is a breach of the contract.” (Id.) 
 “Establishing
that claim requires a showing of “(1) the existence of the contract, (2)
plaintiff's performance or excuse for nonperformance, (3) defendant's breach,
and (4) the resulting damages to the plaintiff.” (D’Arrigo Bros. of
California v. United Farmworkers of America (2014) 224 Cal.App.4th 790,
800.) 
 
            Demurring Defendants argue that Plaintiff’s
second cause of action relied upon the same allegations of breach as those
alleged with respect to the first cause of action. Demurring Defendants contend
this cause of action may be either a tort or a contract claim, but if it is
pled as a tort, Plaintiff must identify a legally recognized “special
relationship” between the parties and if it is pled in contract, it is a claim
that the defendant did something that was not (in and of itself) a violation of
the subject contract.  Demurring
Defendants assert that Plaintiff has not identified a legally recognized
“special relationship” between himself and 634 Huntley, LLC that would allow a
tort claim to be alleged. Demurring Defendants assert Plaintiff has not
identified any conduct which has deprived him of the benefit of the contract
without actually breaching the contract. 
 
            In opposition, Plaintiff argues he
sufficiently alleged facts that support his claim that 634 Huntley, LLC
breached the covenant of god faith and fair dealing in the Purchase Agreement.
Specifically, Plaintiff contends he alleged that 634 Huntley, LLC deliberately
refused to discharge contractual responsibilities, which deprived Plaintiff of
the benefits of the Purchase Agreement by failing to deliver a property to
Plaintiff that is free from defects. (FAC ¶ 35.) Furthermore, Plaintiff argues
delivering the property to Plaintiff free from defects is not an express
requirement mandated by the terms of the Purchase Agreement itself. Moreover,
Plaintiff asserts that he notified 634 Huntley, LLC multiple times of these
defects and gave 634 Huntley, LLC multiple opportunities to correct such
defects, but 634 Huntley, LLC refused to do so. Thus, Plaintiff contends 634
Huntley, LLC consciously and deliberately deprived Plaintiff of the benefits of
the Purchase Agreement.  
 
            In reply, Demurring Defendants argue
there are no allegations in the FAC, including, without limitation, different
alleged damages, to distinguish the second cause of action from the first cause
of action. Demurring Defendants further argue there are no allegations of any
specific facts in the FAC of alleged “deliberate” refusal by 634 Huntley, LLC
to discharge its contractual responsibilities depriving Plaintiff of the
benefit of their bargain. Demurring Defendants assert the Court may not take
judicial notice of the truth of alleged facts in Plaintiff Opposition of in the
FAC. 
 
            The FAC incorporates by reference
the allegations set forth in Paragraphs 1 through 23. (FAC ¶ 31.) The FAC
further alleges that on or around May 11, 2021, Stojkov and Huntley LLC entered
into the Purchase Agreement. (Id. at ¶ 32.) The FAC also alleges that
there is an implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing in the Purchase
Agreement wherein Stojkov and Huntley LLC promises they will not do anything to
unfairly interfere with the right of the other party to receive the benefits of
the Purchase Agreement. (Id. at ¶ 33.) The FAC also alleges Plaintiff
performed each and every obligation on his part to be performed under the
Purchase Agreement except those obligations excused by the action or inaction
of Huntley LLC and DOES 1-10. (Id. at ¶ 34.) Moreover, the FAC alleges Huntley
LLC and DOES  1-10 did not act fairly and
in good faith and thus breached the implied covenant of good faith and fair
dealing by preventing Plaintiff from receiving the benefits under the Purchase
Agreement, specifically receiving a new property that is free from defects. (Id.
at ¶ 35.) Lastly, the FAC alleges as a result of Huntley LLC and DOES 1-10’s
breach, Plaintiff has suffered damages in an amount to be proven at trial, but
at least $25,000.00. (Id. at ¶ 36.)
            In Careau & Co. v. Security
Pacific Business Credit, Inc. (1990) 222 Cal.App.3d 1371, 1395, the court
held that allegations asserting a claim for implied covenant of good faith and
fair dealing “must show that the conduct of the defendant, whether or not it
also constitutes a breach of a consensual contract term, demonstrates a failure
or refusal to discharge contractual responsibilities, prompted not by an honest
mistake, bad judgment or negligence but rather by a conscious and deliberate
act, which unfairly frustrates the agreed common purposes and disappoints the
reasonable expectations of the other party thereby depriving that party of the
benefits of the agreement.” (Careau & Co. v. Security Pacific Business
Credit, Inc. (1990) 222 Cal.App.3d 1371, 1395.) 
            
However,
“[i]f the allegations do not go beyond the statement of a mere contract breach
and, relying on the same alleged acts, simply seek the same damages or other
relief already claimed in a companion contract cause of action, they may be
disregarded as superfluous as no additional claim is actually stated.” (Id.)
“[A]bsent those limited cases where a breach of a consensual contract term is
not claimed or alleged, the only justification for asserting a separate cause
of action for breach of the implied covenant is to obtain a tort recovery.” (Id.)
 
            The Court finds that the FAC does
not state sufficient facts to support a cause of action for Breach of the
Implied Covenant of Good Faith and Fair Dealing. Plaintiff does not allege that
634 Huntley, LLC deliberately refused to discharge contractual
responsibilities, which deprived Plaintiff of the benefits of the Purchase
Agreement by failing to deliver a property to Plaintiff that is free from
defects. Furthermore, Plaintiff does not allege any “special relationship”
between him and the Demurring Defendants that is legal recognized. The FAC
seemingly relies on the same facts alleged in the first cause of action for
Breach of Contract. 
 
            Therefore, the demurrer as to the
second cause of action is SUSTAINED with twenty (20) days Leave to Amend. 
 
Third Cause of Action for Negligence
“To
state a cause of action for negligence, a plaintiff must allege (1) the
defendant owed the plaintiff a duty of care, (2) the defendant breached that
duty, and (3) the breach proximately caused the plaintiff's damages or
injuries.” (Lueras c. BAC Home Loans Servicing, LP (2013) 221
Cal.App.4th 49, 62.)
 
            Demurring
Defendants argue that Plaintiff’s third cause of action is fatally uncertain as
to them because it fails to state any facts of a noncontractual duty owed by
634 Huntley, LLC to Plaintiff which could support the alleged tort claim of
negligence. Demurring Defendants also argue that alter ego is insufficiently
alleged and there is absolutely no certainty or specificity as to which
particular defendant purportedly communicated with Plaintiff or acted
negligently toward him. 
 
            In opposition, Plaintiff argues he
has sufficiently alleged his negligence claim against  Demurring Defendants. Specifically, Plaintiff
argues the Demurring Defendants had a duty to Plaintiff as the owner and future
occupant to perform work on the property in a workman like manner, which
included proper water proofing, Plaintiff further contends this is wholly
distinct from the Demurring Defendants purchase and sale obligations mandated
by the purchase and sale agreement. Likewise, Plaintiff asserts he sufficiently
alleged the Demurring Defendants owed him a duty to perform work in a good and
workman like manner and to deliver the property that is sufficiently free from
defects. (FAC ¶ 38.) Plaintiff also asserts he alleges Demurring Defendants
breached their duty by failing to do so. (Id. at ¶ 39.) As such,
Plaintiff argues he sufficiently alleged the Demurring Defendants’ negligent
conduct did not meet industry standards and resulted in extensive damage to the
subject property in support of this cause of action in paragraphs 18-19 of the
FAC, which are incorporated into the third cause of action. Additionally,
Plaintiff argues the Demurring Defendants are all liable to him as alter egos
of each other, which is sufficiently alleged in paragraph 9 of the FAC. 
 
            In reply, Demurring Defendants argue
there are no allegations in the FAC that any of the Demurring Defendants owed a
duty of care to Plaintiff, failed to exercise due care or acted recklessly or
carelessly as to Plaintiff. Furthermore, Demurring Defendants reiterates that
alter ego is insufficiently alleged as to the third cause of action. Moreover,
Demurring Defendants assert that the FAC is uncertain and inconsistent as to
the purported  alter ego allegations
because neither 634 Huntley, LLC nor 4D Development and Investments are
corporations or sued or identified as a corporation in the FAC. 
 
            The FAC incorporates by reference
the allegations set forth in Paragraphs 1 through 23. (FAC ¶ 37.) The FAC
further alleges Defendants owed Plaintiff a duty to perform work in a good and
workmanlike manner and to deliver a property that is sufficiently free from
defects. (Id. at ¶ 38.) The FAC also alleges Defendants breached their
duty by failing to perform their work in a good and workmanlike manner, failing
to successfully repair the defects at the Property despite receiving several
notices, and failing to deliver a property that is sufficiently free from
defects. (Id. at ¶ 39.) Finally, the FAC alleges as a result of
Defendants’ negligence, Plaintiff has suffered damages in an amount to be
proven at trial, but at least $25,000.00.
 
            The Court finds that the FAC does
state facts sufficient to support a cause of action for negligence. Plaintiff
alleges that the Demurring Defendants owed him a duty to perform work in a good
and workman like manner and to deliver the property sufficiently free from
defects. Plaintiff further alleges that the Demurring Defendants breached that
duty by failing to successfully repair the defects in the property despite
receiving several notice and failing to deliver the property sufficiently free
from defects. Lastly, Plaintiff alleges that he suffered damages in an amount
of at least $25,000.00 because of the Demurring Defendants’ breach. 
 
            Therefore, the demurrer as to the
second cause of action is OVERRULED. 
 
Moving
Party is ordered to give notice of this ruling.            
 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at SMC_DEPT56@lacourt.org as directed
by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department does not receive an email
and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion will be placed off
calendar.
 
Dated this 21st day of March 2024
 




 


 




 


Hon. Holly J.
  Fujie
Judge of the
  Superior Court
 



