  Case Number:  19STCV29421    Hearing Date:   November 8, 2023    Dept:  53 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles – Central District
Department
53
 
 




arin yaghoubi

   ;
 


   Plaintiff,
 
 
vs.
 
 
ford motor company

   , et al.;
 


   Defendants.


Case
  No.:


19STCV29421




 


 




Hearing
  Date:


November
   8, 2023




 


 




Time:





   10:00 a.m.




 


 




 
[Tentative]
  Order RE:
 
defendant’s motion for summary judgment or,
  in the alternative, summary adjudication
 



 
MOVING PARTY:                Defendant Star Ford Lincoln
 
RESPONDING PARTY:        Plaintiff Arin Yaghoubi
Motion for Summary Judgment or, in the Alternative, Summary
Adjudication
The court
considered the moving, opposition, and reply papers filed in connection with
this motion. 
JUDICIAL NOTICE
The court denies defendant
Star Ford Lincoln’s request for judicial notice that was filed on November 3,
2023 (1) as an improper attempt to introduce new evidence in reply, and                (2) because rulings from other Superior Court departments
are irrelevant to the issues presented by this motion.  (Jay v. Mahaffey (2013) 218
Cal.App.4th 1522, 1537; Malek Media Group LLC v. AXQG Corp. (2020) 58
Cal.App.5th 817, 825.)
 
 
EVIDENTIARY OBJECTIONS  
The court rules on plaintiff Arin Yaghoubi’s evidentiary objections,
filed on October 25, 2023, as follows:
The court overrules Objections Nos. 1-8.
The court rules on defendant Star Ford Lincoln’s evidentiary
objections, filed on November 3, 2023, as follows:
The court sustains Objections Nos. 2-4, 6-8, and 13.
The court overrules Objections Nos. 1, 5, 9-12, and 14-21.
LEGAL STANDARD
The purpose of a motion for summary judgment or summary
adjudication “is to provide courts with a mechanism to cut through the parties’
pleadings in order to determine whether, despite their allegations, trial is in
fact necessary to resolve their dispute.” 
(Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co.
(2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 843.)  “Code
of Civil Procedure section 437c, subdivision (c), requires the trial judge to
grant summary judgment if all the evidence submitted, and ‘all inferences
reasonably deducible from the evidence’ and uncontradicted by other inferences
or evidence, show that there is no triable issue as to any material fact and
that the moving party is entitled to judgment as a matter of law.”  (Adler
v. Manor Healthcare Corp. (1992) 7 Cal.App.4th 1110, 1119.)
“On a motion for summary judgment, the initial burden is always on
the moving party to make a prima facie showing that there are no triable issues
of material fact.”  (Scalf v. D.B. Log Homes, Inc. (2005) 128 Cal.App.4th 1510,
1519.)  A defendant or cross-defendant
moving for summary judgment or summary adjudication “has met his or her burden
of showing that a cause of action has no merit if the party has shown that one
or more elements of the cause of action . . . cannot be established, or that
there is a complete defense to the cause of action.”  (Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 437c, subd. (p)(2).)  “Once the
defendant or cross-defendant has met that burden, the burden shifts to the
plaintiff or cross-complainant to show that a triable issue of one or more
material facts exists as to the cause of action or a defense thereto.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (p)(2).)  “If the plaintiff cannot do so, summary
judgment should be granted.”  (Avivi v. Centro
Medico Urgente Medical Center (2008) 159 Cal.App.4th 463, 467.)  “When deciding whether to grant summary
judgment, the court must consider all of the evidence set forth in the papers
(except evidence to which the court has sustained an objection), as well as all
reasonable inferences that may be drawn from that evidence, in the light most
favorable to the party opposing summary judgment.”  (Id. at
p. 467; Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (c).)
DISCUSSION
Defendant Star Ford Lincoln (“Defendant”)
moves the court for an order granting summary judgment in its favor and against
plaintiff Arin Yaghoubi (“Plaintiff”) or, in the alternative, summary
adjudication on Plaintiff’s eighth and ninth causes of action.  The court notes that, although Defendant has
addressed the ninth cause of action first, the court addresses the causes of
action alleged against Defendant in numerical order. 

1.     Eighth
Cause of Action for Negligence
“The elements of any negligence cause of action are duty, breach
of duty, proximate cause, and damages.” 
(Peredia v. HR Mobile Services, Inc. (2018) 25 Cal.App.5th 680,
687.) 
The court finds that Defendant has not met its burden of showing
that the eighth cause of action for negligence has no merit on the ground that
the economic loss rule bars this claim.     

“[T]he economic loss rule provides:¿ ‘ “ ‘[W]here a purchaser’s
expectations in a sale are frustrated because the product he bought is not
working properly, his remedy is said to be in contract alone, for he has
suffered only “economic” losses.’ ”¿ (Robinson Helicopter Co., Inc.
v. Dana Corp. (2004) 34 Cal.4th 979, 988 [citation omitted].)¿ Therefore,
“[t]he economic loss rule requires a purchaser to recover in contract for
purely economic loss due to disappointed expectations, unless he can
demonstrate harm above and beyond a broken contractual promise.”¿ (Ibid.)¿
“Not all tort claims for monetary losses between contractual parties are barred
by the economic loss rule.  But such
claims are barred when they arise from – or are not independent of – the
parties’ underlying contracts.”  (Sheen
v. Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. (2022) 12 Cal.5th 905, 923.) 
Here, Plaintiff’s eighth cause of action for negligence does not
“arise from” an underlying contract between Plaintiff and Defendant, even if
Plaintiff only seeks recovery of economic damages.  (Sheen, supra, 12 Cal.5th at p.
923.)  Instead, Plaintiff has alleged
that Defendant (1) had an independent duty to perform professional services in
a good and workmanlike manner pursuant to Civil Code section 1796.5, and (2)
Defendant breached that duty.  (SAC ¶ 92;
Civ. Code, § 1796.5 [providing that any legal entity “which engages in the
business of providing service or repair to new or used consumer goods has a
duty to the purchaser to perform those services in a good and workmanlike
manner”].)  Thus, the court finds that
Plaintiff’s claim does not arise from, and is independent of, any contract
between the parties and therefore finds that Defendant has not shown that the
economic loss rule bars this claim.  (Sheen,
supra, 12 Cal.5th at p. 923.) 
The court finds that Defendant has met its burden of showing that
the eighth cause of action for negligence has no merit because Defendant has shown
that an element of the cause of action (damages) cannot be established.  (Peredia, supra, 25 Cal.App.5th
at p. 687 [setting forth elements of claims for negligence].)  
Defendant has presented evidence showing that (1) Defendant did
not charge Plaintiff for any of the repair visits; (2) Plaintiff received a
free Lyft ride to his workplace after delivering the subject vehicle to
Defendant on April 15, 2019 for repairs; (3) Defendant provided Plaintiff with
a free rental vehicle for the April 22, 2019 and July 22, 2019 repair visits;
and (4) Plaintiff did not seek medical treatment for symptoms he felt as a
result of the carbon monoxide issue with the vehicle and is not claiming
personal injury damages.  (Undisputed
Material Fact (“UMF”) Nos. 14-16; Arguello Decl., ¶¶ 10, 12, 14; Def.
Compendium of Evidence (“Def. COE”), Ex. 11, Form Interrogatory No. 10.1, p.
9:6-18 [“Plaintiff has not filed a personal injury claim and is not claiming
personal injury damages”].) 
Thus, the court finds that Defendant has met its burden to show
that Plaintiff cannot establish that he suffered damages as a result of
Defendant’s breach of duty. 
The court finds that Plaintiff has not met his burden to show that
a triable issue of material fact exists as to the element of damages. 
First, the court notes that, aside from arguing that the economic
loss rule does not bar his claim, Plaintiff has not set forth argument
establishing that he has suffered damages as a result of Defendant’s breach of
duty in his opposition brief.  Instead,
Plaintiff appears only to argue that the issue of damages is a question of fact
for the jury. 
Second, Plaintiff does not dispute that Defendant did not charge
Plaintiff in connection with the three repair visits, and his own evidence
confirms that fact.  (UMF No. 14; Yaghoubi
Decl., Exs. 1 [April 16, 2019 Invoice for $0], 2 [April 26, 2019 Invoice for
$0], 3 [July 25, 2019 Invoice for $0].) 
Third, although Plaintiff has stated in his declaration that he
“was left without access to the Subject Vehicle for a total of over sixteen
(16) days as a result of the repeat presentations for the same concerns that
were never repaired[,]” Plaintiff does not dispute that (1) he was provided a
free Lyft ride to his workplace after presenting the vehicle for repair on
April 15, 2019, and (2) he was provided with a free rental vehicle for the
April 22, 2019 and July 22, 2019 repair visits. 
(Yaghoubi Decl., ¶ 13; UMF Nos. 15-16.)  Thus, Plaintiff has not presented any
evidence showing that he was suffered damages as a result of his inability to
use the vehicle.  
Finally, the court acknowledges that Plaintiff states in his
declaration that he was damaged by (1) the continued exposure to noxious
exhaust smells in the vehicle’s cabin, (2) the loss of the intended use of the
vehicle, and (3) the benefit of the bargain sought in leasing the subject vehicle.  (Yaghoubi Decl., ¶ 14.)  However, the court finds that this evidence is
insufficient to show that a triable issue of material fact exists as to the
element of damages. 
As to the exposure to noxious exhaust smells, Plaintiff expressly
stated, in his discovery responses, that he (1) has not filed a personal injury
claim, and (2) is not claiming personal injury damages.  (Def. COE Ex. 11, p. 9:6-18, Response to Form
Interrogatory No. 10.1.)  As to the loss
of the use of his vehicle, Plaintiff does not dispute, as set forth above, that
he was provided use of other vehicles when he presented the vehicle to
Defendant for repair, and has not sufficiently explained or established the
damages suffered by his inability to use his vehicle.  (UMF Nos. 15-16.)  As to the alleged loss of the benefit of the
bargain sought in leasing the subject vehicle, Plaintiff has not provided any
facts in support of this assertion, which is conclusory and therefore does not
constitute “substantial responsive evidence sufficient to establish a triable
issue of material fact on the merits of [Defendant’s] showing.”  (Sangster v. Paetkau (1998) 68
Cal.App.4th 151, 163.)
Thus, the court finds that Plaintiff has not met his burden to
show that a triable issue of material fact exists as to the element of damages
suffered as a result of Defendant’s alleged breach of duty.  (Peredia, supra, 25 Cal.App.5th
at p. 687.) 
            The court therefore grants
Defendant’s motion for summary adjudication as to the eighth cause of action
for negligence. 
2.     Ninth
Cause of Action for Breach of Contract
“‘A cause of action for breach of contract requires proof of the
following elements: (1) existence of the contract; (2) plaintiff’s performance
or excuse for nonperformance; (3) defendant’s breach; and (4) damages to
plaintiff as a result of the breach.’”  (Miles
v. Deutsche Bank National Trust Co. (2015) 236 Cal.App.4th 394, 402.) 
The court finds that Defendant has met its burden of showing that
the ninth cause of action for breach of contract has no merit because Defendant
has shown that an element of the cause of action (the existence of a contract
between Plaintiff and Defendant) cannot be established.  
Plaintiff has alleged, in support of his breach of contract cause
of action against Defendant, that Defendant agreed to perform the requested
repairs “both orally and in writing.” 
(SAC ¶ 96.)  The court finds
that Defendant has met its burden to show that Plaintiff cannot prove the
existence of either an oral or written agreement between them. 
As to the existence of an oral agreement, Defendant has submitted
Plaintiff’s discovery responses to show that no such agreement exists.  In response to an interrogatory requesting
information for, inter alia, “each part of [an agreement alleged in the
pleadings] not in writing,” Plaintiff stated: “Currently unknown[.]”  (Def. COE Ex. 11, Form Interrogatory No.
50.1, pp. 54:9-14, 55:7.)  Thus, the
court finds that Defendant has presented evidence showing that Plaintiff cannot
establish the element of the existence of an oral contract between Plaintiff
and Defendant.  (Union Bank v.
Superior Court (1995) 31 Cal.App.4th 573, 590 [“a moving defendant may rely
on factually devoid discovery responses to shift the burden of proof pursuant
to section 437c, subdivision (o)(2)”].) 
As to the existence of a written agreement, Defendant points to
Plaintiff’s response to an interrogatory requesting the identification of
documents that comprise the agreements alleged in the pleadings, in which Plaintiff
identified the following documents: (1) “Warranty Booklet and Sale
Contract/Lease Agreement,” (2) “Star Ford Repair Orders,” (3) “Montebello Ford
repair orders[,]” and (4) “Galpin Ford repair orders.”  (Def. COE Ex. 11, Form Interrogatory No.
50.1, pp. 54:10-11, 55:1-2.) 
First, Defendant has submitted evidence showing that (1) Plaintiff
leased the subject vehicle from Ford of Montebello; (2) Defendant was not a
party to that lease; and (3) Defendant did not issue a separate warranty for
the subject vehicle apart from the manufacturer’s warranty, which was provided
by Ford Motor Company.  (UMF Nos. 1-2;
Def. COE Ex. 4, p. 1 [“California Motor Vehicle Lease Agreement” naming, as
lessee, Plaintiff, and as lessor, “Ford of Montebello Inc.”]; Arguello Decl.,
¶ 6 [“At the time Plaintiff leased the Vehicle, the Vehicle came with a
manufacturer’s warranty[,]” and “Star Ford [i.e., Defendant] did not provide a
written warranty of the Vehicle”].) 
Thus, the court finds that Defendant has presented evidence showing that
the “Warranty Booklet and Sale Contract/Lease Agreement” documents do not
constitute written contracts between Plaintiff and Defendant. 
Second, Defendant has submitted the three repair orders issued by
Defendant to Plaintiff.  While the repair
orders include language authorizing Defendant to perform the repair work
specified thereon and granting Defendant the permission to operate the vehicle
for the purpose of testing and/or inspections, they do not contain any written
promise “to perform the requested repairs and to conform the vehicle to the
terms of the warranty” as alleged in the Second Amended Complaint.  (Def. COE Exs. 7, p.1, 8, p. 1, 9, p.1; SAC ¶
96.)  Thus, Defendant has shown that its
written repair orders do not constitute written contracts between Plaintiff and
Defendant.
Third, Defendant has presented evidence showing that it is not
affiliated with and does not have any ownership in Galpin Ford, Sunrise Ford,
or Ford of Montebello.  (Arguello Decl.,
¶ 5.)  Thus, Defendant has shown
that the repair orders issued by Ford of Montebello and Galpin Ford would not
create a written contract between Plaintiff and Defendant.  (Ibid.)  
The court finds that Plaintiff has not met his burden to show that
a triable issue of material fact exists as to the existence of a contract
between Plaintiff and Defendant. 
First, Plaintiff contends that, on the reverse of one of
Plaintiff’s repair orders, there exists a written contract between himself and
Defendant.  Plaintiff does not quote the
specific language that he argues has created contractual obligations on the
part of Defendant in either his responsive separate statement or his opposition
brief, though it appears that Plaintiff is relying on the document entitled
“Ford Warranty Statement” that is attached to the April 22, 2019 repair
order.  (Yaghoubi Decl., Ex. 2, p.
4.)  This warranty statement sets forth
Ford Motor Company’s “New Vehicle Limited Warranty[,]” and references a
“dealer” in certain provisions.  (Ibid.)  But this document (1) states that the
warranty was provided by “Ford Motor Company[,]” i.e., not Defendant, and (2)
does not contain any language creating a contractual obligation on the part of
Defendant to repair the subject vehicle in accordance with Ford Motor Company’s
warranty.  Thus, the court finds that
this evidence is insufficient to show that there is a triable issue of material
fact as to whether the repair orders constitute a written contract(s) between
Plaintiff and Defendant. 
Second, Plaintiff argues that Defendant’s service advisor, Andrew
Banales (“Banales”) “orally informed Plaintiff during each presentation that
[Defendant] would perform the necessary diagnoses and repairs on the Subject
Vehicle.”  (Opp., p. 15:8-9.)  However, Plaintiff did not present any
evidence in support of this assertion. 
Although Plaintiff has stated in his declaration that Banales
represented “that he was aware of the exhaust odors in vehicles similar to the
Subject Vehicle” and advised Plaintiff “that he would help with a solution[,]”
Plaintiff did not present evidence (1) showing that Banales made specific oral
promises that Defendant would conform the subject vehicle to Ford Motor
Company’s warranty or to perform requested repairs (SAC ¶ 96), or (2)
describing terms of any other oral contract between Plaintiff and
Defendant.  (Yaghoubi Decl., ¶ 9.)  Thus, the court finds that this evidence is
insufficient to show that there is a triable issue of material fact as to
whether Banales’s statements created an oral contract. 
            Thus, the court finds that Plaintiff
did not meet his burden to “produce substantial responsive evidence sufficient
to establish a triable issue of material fact on the merits of” Defendant’s
showing that Plaintiff cannot establish the element of either an oral or
written contract between Plaintiff and Defendant.  (Sangster, supra, 68
Cal.App.4th at p. 163.) 
The court therefore grants Defendant’s motion for summary
adjudication as to the ninth cause of action for breach of contract.
Because the court has granted summary adjudication in favor of
Defendant on all of the causes of action alleged against Defendant in
Plaintiff’s Second Amended Complaint, the court find that all of the papers
submitted show that there is no triable issue as to any material fact and that
Defendant is entitled to judgment as a matter of law.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd.
(c).)  The court therefore grants
Defendant’s motion for summary judgment. 
ORDER
            The court grants defendant Star Ford
Lincoln’s motion for summary judgment on plaintiff Arin Yaghoubi’s Second
Amended Complaint. 
            The court orders defendant Star Ford
Lincoln to prepare, serve, and lodge a proposed judgment no later than 10 days
from the date of this order. 
            The court sets an Order to Show
Cause re entry of judgment (as to defendant Star Ford Lincoln) for hearing on February
8, 2024, at 8:30 a.m., in Department 53.
The court orders defendant Star Ford Lincoln to give notice of this
ruling.
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
DATED:  November 8, 2023
 
_____________________________
Robert
B. Broadbelt III
Judge
of the Superior Court