 Case Number:  BC662798    Hearing Date:   November 8, 2023    Dept:  53 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles – Central District
Department
53
 
 




greg mooradian

   , et al.;
 


   Plaintiffs,
 
 
vs.
 
 
erla dogg ingjaldsdottir
   aka erla dogg

   , et al.;
 


   Defendants.


Case
  No.:


BC662798




 


 




Hearing
  Date:


November
   8, 2023




 


 




Time:





   10:00 a.m.




 


 




 
[Tentative]
  Order RE:
 
defendant and cross-complainant’s motion for
  determination of good faith settlement
 



 
MOVING PARTY:                 Defendant and cross-complainant
Core Construction and Development        
 
RESPONDING PARTY:       Unopposed
Motion for Determination of Good Faith Settlement
The court
considered the moving papers filed in connection with this motion.  No opposition papers were filed.
DISCUSSION
Defendant and cross-complainant Core Construction and Development
(“Core”) moves the court for an order determining that the settlement entered
into by and between Core, on the one hand, and plaintiffs Greg Mooradian, Debra
Mooradian, and the Greg and Debra Mooradian Family Trust (“Plaintiffs”), on the
other hand, was made in good faith pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure sections
877 and 877.6.  Core has agreed to settle
this action with Plaintiffs for the total amount of $350,000, subject to the
court’s determination that the settlement was made in good faith.  (McElroy Decl., ¶ 22.) 
“[Code of Civil Procedure] Section 877.6 was enacted by the
Legislature in 1980 to establish a statutory procedure for determining if a
settlement by an alleged joint tortfeasor has been entered into in good faith
and to provide a bar to claims of other alleged joint tortfeasors for equitable
contribution or partial or comparative indemnity when good faith is shown.”¿ (IRM
Corp. v. Carlson (1986) 179 Cal.App.3d 94, 104.)¿ Code of Civil Procedure
section 877.6, subdivision (a)(1) provides, in relevant part, that, on noticed
motion, “[a]ny party to an action wherein it is alleged that two or more
parties are joint tortfeasors or co-obligors on a contract debt shall be
entitled to a hearing on the issue of the good faith of a settlement entered
into by the plaintiff . . . and one or more alleged tortfeasors or co-obligors
. . . .”¿ “The party asserting the lack of good faith shall have the burden of
proof on that issue.”¿ (Code Civ. Proc., § 877.6, subd. (d).)¿ 
When a motion for determination of good faith settlement is
uncontested, a “barebones” motion that sets forth the ground of good faith,
accompanied by a declaration which sets forth a brief background of the case,
is sufficient to support a good faith determination.¿ (City of Grand Terrace
v. Superior Court (1987) 192 Cal.App.3d 1251, 1261.)¿¿¿ 
The court has not received opposition papers from any other party
involved in this action contending that the settlement between Core and
Plaintiffs was not made in good faith. 
The court finds that (1) Core’s motion, accompanied by the declarations
of Mark Hopkins, a retained expert on behalf of Core attesting to the liability
of Core, and Conor H. McElroy, set forth the ground of good faith, and (2) the
declaration of Conor H. McElroy sets forth a brief background of the case and
other factors supporting a determination of good faith.  (Hopkins Decl., ¶¶ 2, 6-8; McElroy
Decl., ¶¶ 10-17, 20-21, 24, 26-27.) 

The court therefore finds that Core’s motion and supporting evidence
are sufficient to support a good faith determination and therefore grants
Core’s motion.  (City of Grand Terrace,
supra, 192 Cal.App.3d at p. 1261.) 
ORDER
            The court grants defendant and
cross-complainant Core Construction and Development’s motion for determination
of good faith settlement. 
            The court determines that the
settlement entered into by and between defendant and cross-complainant Core
Construction and Development, on the one hand, and plaintiffs Greg Mooradian,
Debra Mooradian, and the Greg and Debra Mooradian Family Trust, on the other
hand, is in good faith within the meaning of Code of Civil Procedure section
877.6, subdivision (a).
            All other joint tortfeasors or
co-obligors are barred from any further claims against defendant and
cross-complainant Core Construction and Development for equitable
comparative contribution, or partial or comparative indemnity, based on
comparative negligence or comparative fault.¿ (Code Civ. Proc., § 877.6, subd.
(c).)¿
The court orders defendant and cross-complainant Core Construction and
Development to give notice of this ruling.
 
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
DATED:  November 8, 2023
 
_____________________________
Robert
B. Broadbelt III
Judge
of the Superior Court