  Case Number:  19STCV07632    Hearing Date:   December 15, 2023    Dept:  40 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
Department 40
 



WESTERN UNION FINANCIAL SERVICES, INC. dba WESTERN UNION NORTH
  AMERICA,
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
KELLY RANGHEE KANG, individually and dba ALOHA DELI MARKET;
  JEONG HOON KANG aka JOHN HOON KANG, JONATHAN H. KANG and JON H. KANG, individually
  and dba ALOHA DELI MARKET; RK DELI CORPORATION dba ALOHA DELI MARKET; RNJ
  GROUP, INC. dba ALOHA DELI MARKET; DOES 1 to 10,
                        Defendants.


 Case No.:          19STCV07632
 Hearing Date:   12/15/23
 Trial Date:        2/9/24
 [TENTATIVE] RULING RE:
Plaintiff Western
  Union Financial Services, Inc.’s Motion for Summary Adjudication.



 
Background
Pleadings Framing Motion
On March 4, 2019, Plaintiff Western Union Financial Services Inc.
(Western Union) sued individual defendants Kelly Ranghee Kang [wife] and
Jeong Hoon Kang [husband], and entity defendants RJN Group, Inc. and RK Deli
Corporation, all of whom operate/do business as a grocery market named Aloha
Deli Market.
The operative November 18, 2021
Second Amended Complaint (SAC) alleges ten claims: (1) Breach of Written
Contract; (2) Account Stated; (3) Open Book Account; (4) Breach of Fiduciary
Duty; (5) Conversion; (6) Unjust Enrichment; (7) Common Counts; (8) Violation
of Voidable Transfers Act [Civil Code § 3439.04]; (9) Violation of Voidable
Transfers Act [Civil Code § 3439.05]; and (10) Civil Conspiracy.
The claims arise from allegations
that Defendants failed to remit $98,760.17 to Western Union—seemingly as part
of Western Union transactions effected at the Aloha Deli Market—with a 2%
penalty interest imposed on these owed monies beginning December 31, 2018.
Status of Defendants
On January 18, 2022, Western Union
appears to have effected service of the SAC on all Defendants.
On March 1, 2022, Defendants Kelly
Ranghee Kang and Jeong Hoon Kang filed an Answer to the SAC.
On May 5, 2022, Western Union
obtained an entry of default against Defendants RJN Group, Inc.
On May 23, 2022, Western Union
again effected service of the SAC on Defendant RK Deli Corporation.
On July 19, 2022, Western Union
obtained an entry of default against Defendant RK Deli Corporation.
Motion Before the Court
On September 26, 2023, Western
Union moved for an order granting summary adjudication as to Western Union’s fifth
cause of action (Conversion) against Defendant Jeong Hoon Kang aka John Hoon
Kang, Jonathan H. Kang, and Jon H. Kang, individually and dba Aloha Deli
Market.
On December 1, 2023, the Court held
a Post-Mediation Status Conference, at which Defendants made no appearances. At
that time, Western Union’s counsel informed the Court of their attempts to
communicate with Defendant to schedule a mediation session and that they had
not received any responses.
Western Union’s motion is unopposed
by all Defendants and is now before the Court.
 
Motion for Summary Adjudication

Legal Standard
A motion for summary judgment shall
be granted if all the papers submitted show that there is no triable issue as
to any material fact for trial or that the moving party is entitled to a
judgment as a matter of law. (Code of Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (c).) A party
may also seek summary adjudication of select causes of action, affirmative
defenses, claims for damages, or issues of duty, which may be made by a
standalone motion or as an alternative to a motion for summary judgment and
proceeds in all procedural respects like a motion for summary judgment. (Code
Civ. Proc., § 437c, subds. (f)(1)-(2), (t); see Lilienthal & Fowler v.
Superior Court (1993) 12 Cal.App.4th 1848, 1854-1855, questioned by dictum
in Bagley v. TRW, Inc. (1999) 73 Cal.App.4th 1092, 1094, fn. 2 [finding
that summary adjudication may be granted as to separate factual grounds
supporting a claim stated as a single count because the separate grounds state
a separate cause of action].) The moving party bears the initial burden of
production to make prima facie showing no triable material fact issues. (Aguilar
v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 850.) This burden on
summary judgment or adjudication “is more properly one of persuasion rather
than proof, since he must persuade the court that there is no material fact for
a reasonable trier of fact to find, and not to prove any such fact to the
satisfaction of the court itself as though it were sitting as the trier of
fact.” (Id. at p. 850, fn. 11.) If the moving party meets this burden,
the burden shifts to the opposing party to make a rebuttal prima facie showing
that a triable issue of material fact exists. (Id. at p. 849.)
“[I]n ruling on motions for summary judgment courts are to ‘“liberally construe
the evidence in support of the party opposing summary judgment and resolve
doubts concerning the evidence in favor of that party.”‘ [Citations].” (Cheal
v. El Camino Hospital (2014) 223 Cal.App.4th 736, 760.)
I.
SAC, Fifth Cause of Action,
Conversion: DENIED, without prejudice.
“Conversion is the wrongful
exercise of dominion over the property of another … [and its] elements … are:
(1) the plaintiff’s ownership or right to possession of the property; (2) the
defendant’s conversion by a wrongful act or disposition of property rights; and
(3) damages.” (Lee v. Hanley (2015) 61 Cal.4th 1225, 1240.) However,
“the simple failure to pay money owed does not constitute conversion”; “[a]
cause of action for conversion of money can be stated only where a defendant
interferes with the plaintiff’s possessory interest in a specific, identifiable
sum, such as when a trustee or agent misappropriates the money entrusted to
him. [Citation.]” (Weiss v. Marcus (1975) 51 Cal.App.3d 590, 599, citing
Haigler v. Donnelly (1941) 18 Cal.2d 674, 681.)
The Complaint’s fifth cause of
action is stated against Defendant Kelly Kang alone and alleges that Kelly Kang
was required to accept, hold, and deposit all monies collected on behalf of Western
Union in furtherance of the parties’ Agency Agreement and California law, that Kelly
Kang knew at all times that neither she, nor any other person or company, was
entitled to the said funds, that Kelly Kang did take, keep, and convert for
herself, or for the benefit of others, the money to which she knew they were not
entitled, and that there is due, owing, and unpaid by Kelly Kang the sum of
$98,760.17 together with contractual interest and contractual attorney’s fees.
The Complaint also alleges that these allegations support punitive damages.
(SAC, ¶¶ 40-46.)
Western Union moves for an order
granting summary adjudication as to Western Union’s fifth cause of action
(Conversion) against Defendant Jeong Hoon Kang aka John Hoon Kang, Jonathan H.
Kang, and Jon H. Kang, individually and dba Aloha Deli Market. (See Mot.,
Notice, p. 2.) In its motion, Western Union recognizes that its basis for alleging
the fifth cause of action for conversion is “through a tenth ‘cause of action’
for Civil Conspiracy, which alleges that Defendant [Jeong] conspired with his
wife [Kelly] to convert” the $98,760.17 of Plaintiff’s funds. (Memo of P’s and
A’s, p. 2.)
The SAC’s tenth cause of action
alleges a claim of “Civil Conspiracy” against all Defendants. This claim
alleges that from approximately December 2018 until the present, Defendants
knowingly and willfully conspired and agreed between themselves to take
financial advantage of Western Union and to commit the wrongful acts against Western
Union alleged above, that Defendants engaged in conversion, breach of fiduciary
duty, and fraud towards Western Union and carried out their scheme to take
$98,760.17 worth of Western Union’s funds and escape liability for paying the
money back, that Defendants did the acts and things herein alleged pursuant to,
and in furtherance of, the conspiracy and above-alleged agreement, and that to
the extent any defendant did not directly participate in the other Defendants’
direct interactions with Western Union to obtain Western Union’s funds, they
furthered the conspiracy by cooperating, lending aid, encouraging, and/or
ratifying and adopting the other defendants’ acts, as alleged above. By reason
of the misappropriation of Western Union’s funds, the SAC alleges, Western
Union has suffered damages in principal amount of $98,760.17. The SAC alleges
that this conduct supports punitive damages against all Defendants. (SAC, ¶¶ 72-78.)
In support of summary adjudication
of this claim, Western Union cites admissions deemed admitted against
Defendants Jeong Hoon Kang and Kelly Kang pursuant to orders made by this Court
on November 1 and 2, 2022. (Mot., p. 6.) However, the November 1 and 2, 2022
orders are not attached to Western Union’s evidence. (See Mot., Badilla Decl.,
Exs. A-B [Agency Agreement, Guaranty Agreement]; Mot., Spector Decl., Exs. A-B
[copies of Requests for Admission at issue but no copies of November 1 and 2022
orders].) Thus, to the extent that the motion relies on the admissions at issue
in the November 1 and 2, 2022 orders, no evidence is before the Court to show
those admissions were actually deemed admitted. Neither does Western Union
attach any kind of request for judicial notice of that Court order.
More critically, the court orders
are not even cited in the separate statement, making them irrelevant “facts”
for summary adjudication purposes. (Mot., Sep. St., UMF Nos. 1-3; see Mills
v. Forestex Co. (2003) 108 Cal.App.4th 625, 640-641 [“‘[T]he statutory
mandate for a separate statement [requires] a party to specify within that
document any facts he deems to be disputed facts material to the issue
presented …. … “[A]ll material facts must be set forth in the separate
statement. ‘This is the Golden Rule of Summary Adjudication: if it is not set
forth in the separate statement, it does not exist.’” [Citation.] Thus, when
the “fact” is not mentioned in the separate statement, it is irrelevant that
such fact might be buried in the mound of paperwork filed with the court,
because the statutory purposes are not furthered by unhighlighted facts.’
[Citations].” Italics in original.].)
While the motion argues that
summary adjudication may be granted irrespective of the deemed admissions,
based solely on undisputed material facts 1-3 (Mot., p. 7), the Court
disagrees. The admissions are critical to establishing the $98,760.17 held in
trust for Western Union were actually converted by Defendants. (See Mot.,
Spector Decl., Ex. A.)
Additionally, the separate
statement does not reference the Agency Agreement and Guaranty Agreements
attached as Exhibits A and B to the Badillo declaration, for which reason those
“facts” are irrelevant for summary adjudication purposes. (Mot., Sep. St., UMF
Nos. 1-3; see Mills v. Forestex Co., supra, 108 Cal.App.4th at
pp. 640-641.) This is a critical omission because the positions that Defendants
are owed $98,760.17 and that Defendant Kelly Kang was supposed to hold those
monies in trust for Western Union are premised on the obligations of the Agency
Agreement.
Western Union’s motion is thus
DENIED without prejudice.
Conclusion
Plaintiff Western Union Financial
Services, Inc.’s Motion for Summary Adjudication is DENIED without prejudice.