 Case Number:  23STCV02887    Hearing Date:   October 8, 2024    Dept:  29 Heffron v. City
of Los Angeles
23STCV02887
Motion to Compel Plaintiff to Answer Deposition Question and Produce Requested Documents
Tentative
The motion is granted.
The request for sanctions is granted in part.
Background
On February 9, 2023,
Gregory Blaine Heffron (“Plaintiff”) filed a complaint against City of Los
Angeles (“City”), Los Angeles Department of Water and Power (“DWP”), County of
Los Angeles (“County”), State of California (“State”), and Does 1 through
200 for liability of a public entity under Government Code section 815 and
negligence for a scooter accident occurring on May 13, 2022.
On May 15 and 16, 2023,
County and State filed answers.  These defendants were dismissed, at
the request of Plaintiff, on April 19, 2024.
On June 26, 2023, City
filed an answer (on its own behalf and acting by and through DWP) and a
cross-complaint against Roes 1 through 10.
On August 27, 2024, City filed this motion to
compel Plaintiff to answer deposition questions and to produce requested
documents.  City also seeks sanctions.
On September 24, 2024, Plaintiff’s counsel
filed a declaration in opposition
On October 1, 2024, Defendant filed a reply,
along with objections to counsel’s declaration.
Legal Standard
Code of
Civil Procedure section 2025.480, subdivision (a), provides: 
“If a
deponent fails to answer any question or to produce any document,
electronically stored information, or tangible thing under the deponent’s
control that is specified in the deposition notice or a deposition subpoena,
the party seeking discovery may move the court for an order compelling that
answer or production.”
The
motion must be filed within 60 days of the “completion of the record of the
deposition” and must be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration.  (Code Civ. Proc. § 2025.480, subd. (b).)
“The
court shall impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with Section
2023.010) against any party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or
opposes a motion to compel an answer or production, unless it finds that the
one subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other
circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.” (Code. Civ. Proc., §
2025.458(j).)
Discussion
As a
preliminary matter, City objects to certain statements in the declaration filed
by Plaintiff’s counsel in opposition to the motion. Although it is certainly
bad practice to combine a declaration and an opposition (as opposed to filing a
declaration and a separate memorandum of points and authorities), the Court
will not elevate form over substance. 
The Court overrules City’s objections and treats the declaration as an
opposition to the motion.
City seeks
an order compelling Plaintiff to respond to questions regarding drug use and to
produce the documents requested in the notice of deposition.
Plaintiff’s
recreational drug use could be considered private and covered under the Article
One of the California Constitution, but here City has shown a compelling interest
in obtaining this information: Plaintiff seeks to recover damages for an
accident, and City contends that some of Plaintiff’s medical expenses may be attributable,
in whole or in part, to an alternative cause – namely Plaintiff’s use of
drugs.  This is discoverable information.  What the answer may be, and whether the probative
value of the information may be outweighed by its potential for unfair
prejudice, are not before the Court at this time.  It is certainly possible that this
information, although discoverable, may be subject to exclusion at trial.
With
regard to the requested documents, Plaintiff did not object to the request for
production and failed to produce any documents at his deposition.  Although Plaintiff contends that he has
already produced documents responsive to written requests for production, “the
discovery statutes do not suggest that seeking documents under one statutory
procedure bars a litigant from seeking the same documents under the other.”  (Carter v. Superior Court (1990) 218
Cal.App.3d 994, 997.)  Good cause has
been shown for production of the requested documents.
Accordingly,
City motion to compel is granted.  
City’s
request for sanctions is also granted in part. 
Plaintiff has unsuccessfully opposed the motion.  The Court finds that Plaintiff’s refusal to
answer the questions based on privacy, and his opposition to the motion, are
substantially justified, even if not ultimately meritorious.  The refusal to produce documents after failing
to object, however, is not substantially justified, and the imposition of
sanctions would not be unjust.
Given
the relatively straightforward nature of this motion, the Court sets sanctions
in the amount of $855, calculated based on three hours of attorney time
multiplied by counsel’s reasonable billing rate of $285 per hour.  As for sanctions, under Code of Civil
Procedure section 2025.480(j), sanctions are mandatory when a party
unsuccessfully opposes the motion. Here, Plaintiff has unsuccessfully opposed
the motion by submitting merely a declaration and not addressing many of
Defendant’s arguments. As such, the Court GRANTS in part and DENIES in part
Defendant’s request for sanctions.
Conclusion
The Court GRANTS City’s motion
to compel answers to deposition questions and production of requested
documents.
The Court ORDERS Plaintiff
to appear for deposition on October __, 2024, at 10:00 am, by remote video
conference.  The Court ORDERS Plaintiff
to respond to the questions labelled as #1 through #7 in the Separate Statement
filed with the motion papers, along with reasonable follow up questions.  The Court ORDERS Plaintiff to produce all
documents within his possession, custody, or control responsive to Requests for
Production Nos. 8, 15, 17, 18, 22, and 37 in the notice of deposition and to
answer questions about these documents.  City
is ORDERED to provide the deposition link at least 24 hours in advance of he
deposition.
The Court GRANTS in part
City’s request for sanctions.
The Court ORDERS Plaintiff
Gregory Blaine Heffron and his counsel of record, Christopher Mesaros, Esq.,
jointly and severally, to pay monetary sanctions under the Civil Discovery Act in
the amount of $855 to City within 30 days of notice.    
Moving party is ORDERED to
give notice.