 Case Number:  22STCV04265    Hearing Date:   October 8, 2024    Dept:  29 Mojiri
v. Ariyoshi
22STCV04265
Defendant’s Motion to Continue Trial
 
Tentative
 
The
motion is denied without prejudice for procedural reasons.
 
Background
 
This case arises from an incident in which
Plaintiff Nazlie Mojiri was allegedly assaulted by an unknown individual (subsequently
identified as Princella Lewis) on August 20, 2021 at Defendant Ariyoshi, a
sushi restaurant. 
 
On February 2, 2022, Plaintiff Nazlie
Mojiri filed a complaint against Defendants Ariyoshi, a business entity unknown;
R.V.M. LLC (“RVM”); Jane Doe, an individual; and Does 1 through 50, inclusive,
alleging causes of action for: (1) Assault; (2) Battery; (3) Negligence; and
(4) Premises Liability. 
 
On March 14, 2022, Sushi Ariyoshi Japanese
Restaurant, erroneously sued as Ariyoshi (“Restaurant”) filed an answer to the
complaint and a cross-complaint against Roes 1 through 20.
 
On October 14, 2022, RVM filed an answer to
the complaint.
 
On June 8, 2023, Plaintiff amended the complaint
to name Princella Lewis (“Lewis”) as Jane Doe.
 
On June 30, 2023, Restaurant’s motion for
summary judgment was denied.
 
On July 21, 2023, RVM’s answer to the
complaint was stricken, with leave to amend.
 
On September 6, 2023, Lewis filed an answer
to the complaint.  On December 7, 2023,
Lewis filed an amended answer.
 
On January 8, 2024, the Court granted the
application of Restaurant for a good faith settlement determination under Code
of Civil Procedure section 877.6.  On
April 5, 2024, Plaintiff filed a request for dismissal of Restaurant.
 
On August 22, 2024, RVM filed a motion for
summary judgment.  The motion is set for
hearing on May 15, 2025.
 
On September 10, 2024, RVM filed this
motion to continue trial.  No opposition
has been filed.
 
Trial is currently set for December 9,
2024.
 
Legal
Standard
Code of
Civil Procedure section 128, subdivision (a)(8), provides that the court has
the power to amend and control its process and orders so as to make them
conform to law and justice. “The power to determine when a continuance should
be granted is within the discretion of the trial court.” (Color-Vue, Inc. v.
Abrams (1996) 44 Cal.App.4th 1599, 1603.) “A trial court has wide
latitude in the matter of calendar control including the granting or denying of
continuances.” (Park Motors, Inc. v. Cozens (1975) 49 Cal.App.3d
12, 18.) 
“To
ensure the prompt disposition of civil cases, the dates assigned for trial are
firm.  All parties and their counsel must regard the date set for
trial as certain.”  (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1332(a).)
“Although
continuances of trials are disfavored, each request for a continuance must be
considered on its own merits.”  (Cal. Rules of Court, rule
3.1332(c).)  “The court may grant a continuance only on an
affirmative showing of good cause requiring the continuance.”  (Ibid.)  Circumstances
that may support a finding of good cause include: 
“(1) The unavailability
of an essential lay or expert witness because of death, illness, or other
excusable circumstances; 
(2) The unavailability
of a party because of death, illness, or other excusable circumstances; 
(3) The unavailability
of trial counsel because of death, illness, or other excusable circumstances; 
(4) The substitution of
trial counsel, but only where there is an affirmative showing that the
substitution is required in the interests of justice; 
(5) The addition of a
new party if: (A) The new party has not had a reasonable opportunity to conduct
discovery and prepare for trial; or (B) The other parties have not had a
reasonable opportunity to conduct discovery and prepare for trial in regard to
the new party's involvement in the case; 
(6) A party's excused
inability to obtain essential testimony, documents, or other material evidence
despite diligent efforts; or 
(7) A significant,
unanticipated change in the status of the case as a result of which the case is
not ready for trial.” 
(Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1332(c).) 
“In
ruling on a motion or application for continuance, the court must consider all
the facts and circumstances that are relevant to the
determination.”  (Cal. Rules of Court, rule
3.1332(d).)  California Rules of Court, rule 3.1332(d) sets forth a
non-exhaustive list of factors that the court may consider: 
“(1) The proximity of
the trial date; 
(2) Whether there was
any previous continuance, extension of time, or delay of trial due to any
party; 
(3) The length of the
continuance requested; 
(4) The availability of
alternative means to address the problem that gave rise to the motion or
application for a continuance; 
(5) The prejudice that
parties or witnesses will suffer as a result of the continuance;
(6) If the case is
entitled to a preferential trial setting, the reasons for that status and
whether the need for a continuance outweighs the need to avoid delay;
(7) The court's calendar
and the impact of granting a continuance on other pending trials;
(8) Whether trial
counsel is engaged in another trial; 
(9) Whether all parties
have stipulated to a continuance; 
(10) Whether the
interests of justice are best served by a continuance, by the trial of the
matter, or by imposing conditions on the continuance; and 
(11) Any other fact or
circumstance relevant to the fair determination of the motion or
application.” 
(Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1332(d).)
Discussion
 
RVM moves to continue trial.  The
Court must deny the motion, without prejudice, for at least two procedural
reasons.
 
First, according to the proof of service filed with the motion, RVM
served only Plaintiff.  RVM did not serve
Lewis.  All parties who have appeared
must be served with all motions.
 
Second, there is no record that RVM has filed an answer to the complaint
(other than the answer that was stricken, without leave to amend).  RVM cannot obtain affirmative relief from the
Court without first filing an answer (and paying any necessary filing fees).
 
Conclusion
 
The Court DENIES without prejudice RVM’s motion to continue trial. 
 
Moving Party is ordered to give notice of this ruling. 