 Case Number:  24STLC00667    Hearing Date:   September 30, 2024    Dept:  26 Covina
Hills MHC v. Souza, et al.DEMURRER(CCP § 430.10, et seq.)
TENTATIVE RULING:
 
Defendant
Francis Vinuya’s Demurrer to the Complaint is OVERRULED AS TO THE FIRST, FIFTH,
AND SIXTH CAUSES OF ACTION AND SUSTAINED WITHOUT LEAVE TO AMEND AS TO THE
SECOND, THIRD, FOURTH, AND SEVENTH CAUSES OF ACTION. 
 
BASED ON THE RELIEF SOUGHT IN THE COMPLAINT, THE COURT SETS AN OSC RE
BIFURCATION AND TRANSFFER OF THE FIFTH CAUSE OF ACTION FOR NOVEMBER 4, 2024 AT
9:30 AM IN DEPARTMENT 26 IN THE SPRING STREET COURTHOUSE. 
 
 
 
 
 
ANALYSIS: 
 

On January 30, 2024, Plaintiff Covina Hills MHC
(“Plaintiff”) filed this action against Defendants Eugenia Souza, Jermaine D.
Souza, Julio Javier Romo, Francis Vinuya (erroneously sued as Francis Vinula)
(“Defendant Vinuya”), and Does 1 through 100, alleging causes of action for:
(1) Declaration of Mobile Home Abandoned; (2) Open Book Account; (3) Breach of
Implied in Fact Contract; (4) Common Counts; (5) Declaratory Relief; (6) Breach
of Written Contract; and (7) Intentional Misrepresentation.
 
On June 10, 2024, Defendant Vinuya filed the instant
demurrer to the Complaint. On August 2, 2024, Plaintiff filed and served an
opposition brief, to which Moving Defendant filed and served a reply brief on
August 14, 2024.
 
Discussion
 
Allegations in the Complaint 
 
Plaintiff operates a mobilehome park in La Puente, and
served a 60-Day Notice to Terminate Possession (the “Notice”) on Defendants
Eugenia Souza and Jermaine D. Souza (collectively, the “Souzas”) for having a
pit bull dog that terrorized the community. (Compl., ¶7.) An incident occurred
whereby the pit bull dog attacked a small child and his dog. (Ibid.) Defendant
Eugenia Souza was told that if she removed the pit bull dog from the community
that the Souzas’ tenancy would be reinstated but she refused. (Id. at
¶8.) The Souzas were given additional time to sell the mobilehome after the
expiration of the Notice. (Ibid.) The Souzas, however, were unable to
sell their mobilehome despite having a licensed real estate agent and brokerage
firm. (Id. at ¶9.) Eviction proceedings were commenced against the
Souzas. (Ibid.) 
 
Prior to the case going to trial, Defendant Eugenia Souza
represented to the court that she had vacated and moved from the mobilehome and
Covina Hills MHC. (Complaint, ¶ 10.) Thereafter, the Souzas were asked to pay
current the storage accounts due and to remove the mobilehome from the space. (Id.
at ¶10.) The Souzas did not remove the mobilehome and pay back the storage
charges so Plaintiff commenced abandonment proceedings which were later
dismissed because of an apparent transfer of ownership of the mobilehome. (Id.
at ¶10.) Defendant Vinuya, who is the brother of Defendant Eugenia Souza,
represented to Plaintiff that the Souzas would pay the park storage charges
until the mobilehome was sold and removed from the Covina Hills MHC property. (Id.
at ¶11.) On more than one occasion, Defendant Vinuya represented that he had
found a buyer for mobilehome and stated that if Plaintiff continued to store
the mobilehome until sold, they would be paid at the time of sale. (Ibid.)
In February 2023, Defendant Vinya verified that he sold the mobilehome to
Antonio Geluz, however, on July 19, 2023, Defendant Eugenia Souza represented
that she sold the mobilehome to Julio Javier Romo. (Id., at ¶¶ 13-14.)
Plaintiff alleges that the issue of mobilehome ownership is convoluted. (Id.
at ¶15.)
 
Demurrer to Complaint
 
Before filing a demurrer, the moving party must meet and
confer in person, by telephone, or by video conference with the party who filed
the pleading to attempt to reach an agreement that would resolve the objections
to the pleading. (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.41.) “Any determination by the court
that the meet and confer process was insufficient shall not be grounds to
overrule or sustain a demurrer.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.41, subd. (a)(4).) It
is unclear if the meet and confer requirement was satisfied as the parties
submit contradictory declarations. Defendant Vinuya declares that he attempted
to meet and confer with Plaintiff but Plaintiff’s counsel disputes any such
attempt. (Demurrer, Vinuya Decl., ¶6(A); Opp., Trevillyan Decl., ¶2). That
being said, an insufficient meet and confer is not grounds to overrule or
sustain a demurrer. The Court will rule on the merits of the demurrer. 
 
Initially, the Court notes that only the second, third,
fourth, and seventh causes of action are asserted against Defendant Vinuya. Therefore,
Defendant Vinuya cannot demur to those causes of action not asserted against him.
The Court overrules the demurrer to the first, fifth, and sixth causes of
action. 
 
The demurrer is brought on the grounds that the complaint
does not state sufficient facts to constitute a cause of action, uncertainty,
and it cannot be determined if the contract is oral, written, or implied.
(Citing Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subds. (e), (f), (g).) Special
demurrers are not permitted in the limited jurisdiction court. (Code Civ.
Proc., §92, subd. (c).) The Court will not rule on the demurrer for uncertainty
and that it cannot be determined if the contract is
oral, written, or implied. 
 
            Res
Judicata / Collateral Estoppel
 
Defendant Vinuya argues that the causes of action asserted
in the Complaint are barred by the doctrines of res judicata and collateral
estoppel based on a separate action, LASC Case No. 24STCP02034. (Demurrer at
pp. 8-9.) On its face, however, the Complaint does not mention LASC Case No.
24STCP02034 and Defendant Vinuya has not requested judicial notice of that
action. Also, Defendant Vinuya does not present any legal authority as to the
elements needed to show the applicability of res judicata or collateral
estoppel. “Contentions are waived when a party fails to support them with
reasoned argument and citations to authority.” (Moulton Niguel Water Dist.
v. Colombo (2003) 111 Cal.App.4th 1210, 1215.) The demurrer based on
collateral estoppel and res judicata is overruled. 
 
2nd Cause of
Action for Open Book Account
 
“The term ‘book account’ means a
detailed statement which constitutes the principal record of one or more
transactions between a debtor and a creditor arising out of a contract or some
fiduciary relation, and shows the debits and credits in connection therewith,
and against whom and in favor of whom entries are made, is entered in the
regular course of business as conducted by such creditor or fiduciary, and is
kept in a reasonably permanent form and manner . . . .” (Code Civ. Proc., §
337a, subd. (a).) 
 
In the second cause of action,
Plaintiff alleges that Defendants became indebted to Plaintiff on an open book
account for money due for storage charges in the sum of $1,166.00 per month
beginning May 1, 2022, at Defendants’ special insistence and request and for
which Defendants agreed to pay the above sum. (Compl., ¶22.) Neither the whole
nor the part of the above sum has been paid although demand therefore has been
made. (Ibid.) The allegations, however, are that Defendant Vinuya
promised that the Souzas—and not Moving Defendant himself—would pay park
storage charges and that if Plaintiff continued to store the mobilehome until
sold, the charges would be paid at the time of sale. (Id. at ¶11.) There
is no allegation of Defendant Vinuya being a debtor of Plaintiff or that any
records were kept in the regular course of business as required under Code of
Civil Procedure section 337a, subdivision (a). The second cause of action is not
sufficiently alleged. The demurrer to the second cause of action is sustained. 
 
            3rd
Cause of Action for Breach of Implied in Fact Contract
 
To state a cause of action for
breach of contract, Plaintiff must be able to establish “(1) the existence of
the contract, (2) plaintiff’s performance or excuse for nonperformance, (3)
defendant’s breach, and (4) the resulting damages to the plaintiff.” (Oasis
West Realty, LLC v. Goldman (2011) 51 Cal.4th 811, 821.) “A cause of action
for breach of implied contract has the same elements as does a cause of action
for breach of contract, except that the promise is not expressed in words but
is implied from the promisor’s conduct.” (Aton Center, Inc. v. United
Healthcare Ins. Co. (2023) 93 Cal.App.5th 1214, 1230.) 
 
Plaintiff has not alleged the
existence of a contract. There are no allegations that Defendant Vinuya
promised to perform in any way in exchange for performance by Plaintiff. As
discussed above, Defendant Vinuya made promises regarding payment by the
Souzas. Nor does the Complaint allege any facts showing by what conduct
Defendant Vinuya obligated himself under a purported contract. The demurrer to
the third cause of action is also sustained.
 
            4th
Cause of Action for Common Counts
 
The required elements of a common
count claim are “(1) the statement of indebtedness in a certain sum, (2) the
consideration, i.e., goods sold, work done, etc., and (3) nonpayment. (Farmers
Insurance Exchange v. Zerin (1997) 53 Cal.App.4th 445, 460, citation and
quotation marks omitted. “A common count is not a specific cause of action . .
. rather, it is a simplified form of pleading normally used to aver the
existence of various forms of monetary indebtedness . . . .” (McBride v.
Boughton (2004) 123 Cal.App.4th 379, 394.) “When a common count is used as
an alternative way of seeking the same recovery demanded in a specific cause of
action, and is based on the same facts, the common count is demurrable if the
cause of action is demurrable.” (Ibid.) Here, the fourth cause of action
is based on the same facts as the insufficient second and third causes of
action. (Compl., ¶¶30-32.) Therefore, the fourth cause of action for common
count is not sufficiently alleged. The demurrer to the fourth cause of action
is sustained. 
 
7th Cause of
Action for Intentional Misrepresentation
 
“Fraud actions... are subject to
strict requirements of particularity in pleading. The idea seems to be that
allegations of fraud involve a serious attack on character, and fairness to the
defendant demands that he should receive the fullest possible details of the
charge in order to prepare his defense.” (Committee on Children's Television
v. Gen. Foods Corp. (1983) 35 Cal.3d 197, 211.) “This particularity
requirement necessitates pleading facts which “show how, when, where, to whom,
and by what means the representations were tendered.” ’ ” (Lazar, supra, 12
Cal.4th at p. 645, 49 Cal.Rptr.2d 377, 909 P.2d 981.)” (Tenet Healthsystem
Desert, Inc. v. Blue Cross of California (2016) 245 Cal.App.4th 821, 837.) 
 
The Complaint does not allege
facts showing how, when, where, to whom, and by what means the representations
were tendered. It simply alleges that Defendant Vinuya represented to Plaintiff
that the Souzas would pay the storage fees until the mobilehome was sold and
removed. (Compl., ¶¶11, 43.) The demurrer to the seventh cause of action is
sustained. 
 
Leave to Amend
 
Leave to amend must be allowed
where there is a reasonable possibility of successful amendment. (Goodman v.
Kennedy (1976) 18 Cal.3d 335, 348.) The burden is on the complainant to
show the Court that a pleading can be amended successfully. (Id.) Plaintiff’s opposition cites no part
of the Complaint to support its contention that any of these causes of action
are sufficiently alleged, nor does it show that any facts can be alleged to
correct the defects therein. Leave to amend is denied. 
 
Transfer of Action to
Unlimited Jurisdiction Court
 
Finally, the Court takes note of
the fifth cause of action for declaratory relief regarding the issue of who
owns the mobile home. (Compl., ¶34.) The
limited jurisdiction court lacks jurisdiction to issue the declaratory relief
sought in the Complaint. (See Code Civ. Proc., §§ 85, 86.) However, the first cause of action is one for a
declaration that the mobilehome is abandoned. That is necessarily a limited
jurisdiction case. (Code Civ. Proc., § 798.61, subd. (c).) The Court sets an
order to show cause regarding bifurcation and subsequent transfer of the fifth
cause of action to the unlimited jurisdiction court. 

 
Conclusion
 
Defendant
Francis Vinuya’s Demurrer to the Complaint is OVERRULED AS TO THE FIRST, FIFTH,
AND SIXTH CAUSES OF ACTION AND SUSTAINED WITHOUT LEAVE TO AMEND AS TO THE
SECOND, THIRD, FOURTH, AND SEVENTH CAUSES OF ACTION.
 
BASED ON THE RELIEF SOUGHT IN THE COMPLAINT, THE COURT SETS AN OSC RE
BIFURCATION AND TRANSFFER OF THE FIFTH CAUSE OF ACTION FOR NOVEMBER 4, 2024 AT
9:30 AM IN DEPARTMENT 26 IN THE SPRING STREET COURTHOUSE. 
 
 
Court clerk to give notice. 