 Case Number:  23PSCV01324    Hearing Date:   September 30, 2024    Dept:  26  
  
Jones v. Sexton, et
al.MOTION TO
COMPEL DEPOSITION AND REQUEST FOR SANCTIONS
(CCP §§ 2025.450)
TENTATIVE RULING:
 
            
Defendants Adeleigh Patricia Sexton and Leon Sexton’s Motion
to Compel Plaintiff’s Attendance at Deposition is GRANTED. PLAINTIFF SHAINA MIKAELA JONES IS ORDERED TO APPEAR FOR DEPOSITION AT A DATE AND
TIME DETERMINED BY DEFENSE COUNSEL, WITHIN 45 DAYS OF THIS ORDER.
 
 
ANALYSIS:
 
Plaintiff Shaina Mikaela Jones (“Plaintiff”) filed the
instant action for motor vehicle negligence against Defendants Adeleigh
Patricia Sexton and Leon Sexton (“Defendants”) on May 2, 2023. Defendants filed
an answer on July 7, 2023.
 
On September 4, 2024, Defendants filed the instant Motion to
Compel Plaintiff’s Attendance at Deposition. No opposition has been filed to
date.
 
Discussion
 
Code of Civil Procedure section 2025.450, section (a) states
in relevant part: 
 
If, after service of a deposition
notice, a party to the action or an officer, director, managing agent, or
employee of a party, or a person designated by an organization that is a party
under Section 2025.230, without having served a valid objection under Section
2025.410, fails to appear for examination, or to proceed with it, or to produce
for inspection any document, electronically stored information, or tangible
thing described in the deposition notice, the party giving the notice may move
for an order compelling the deponent’s attendance and testimony, and the
production for inspection of any document, electronically stored information,
or tangible thing described in the deposition notice.
 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.450, subd. (a).) The motion must
also “set forth specific facts showing good cause justifying the production for
inspection of any document, electronically stored information, or tangible
thing described in the deposition notice” and “be accompanied by a meet and
confer declaration under Section 2016.040.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.450,
subds. (b)(1), (2).) 
 
Defendants served Plaintiff with a Notice of Deposition in
July 2024, setting the deposition for August 22, 2024. (Motion, Ching Decl.,
Exh. D.) Prior to the date set for deposition, Plaintiff served objections. (Id.
at Exh. C.) Defense counsel sought to meet and confer regarding the objection because
Plaintiff now lives in Japan and it would be very difficult to take Plaintiff’s
deposition remotely. (Id. at ¶6 and Exh. A.) As the Motion points out, “the
United States Embassy website for Tokyo states: “Depositions are controlled by
detailed agreements between the United States and the Government of Japan, and
procedures cannot be modified or circumvented. Orders by US courts cannot
compel the Government of Japan to amend or deviate from its judicial regulations
and procedures. In addition, the Embassy cannot compel the Government of Japan
to act faster, or in a way more convenient or beneficial to any party, even
with a US court order requesting such action.” (https://jp.usembassy.gov/services/depositions-in-japan.)”
(Motion, p. 6:2-7.) The alternative is to compel a person or party living in
Japan to travel for deposition. (See Sonneveldt v. Mazda Motor of America,
Inc. (C.D. Cal. 2020) 2020 WL 5372103, *3.) Following the meet and confer
effort by Defendants, Plaintiff’s counsel stated they would get back about the
deposition date but have not done so. (Motion, Ching Decl., ¶6.) 
 
Based on this history and the lack of any opposition,
Defendants have demonstrated that the meet and confer requirement is satisfied
and that there was no good cause for Plaintiff’s failure to communicate
regarding discovery. Due to Plaintiff’s failure to cooperate in the taking of
their deposition, Defendants are entitled to an order compelling their
appearance. 
 
Conclusion
 
Defendants Adeleigh Patricia Sexton and Leon Sexton’s Motion
to Compel Plaintiff’s Attendance at Deposition is GRANTED. PLAINTIFF SHAINA MIKAELA JONES IS ORDERED TO APPEAR FOR DEPOSITION AT A DATE AND
TIME DETERMINED BY DEFENSE COUNSEL, WITHIN 45 DAYS OF THIS ORDER.
 
 
Moving party to give notice. 
 