 Case Number:  24STCV08238    Hearing Date:   January 17, 2025    Dept:  54 


Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles




 
Issa Leigh,


 
 
 
Plaintiff,


 
Case No.:
 


 
24STCV08238




 
vs.


 


 
Tentative Ruling
 




 
Pendry West Hollywood, LLC, et al., 


 
 
 
Defendants.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing Date: January 17, 2025
Department 54, Judge Maurice A. Leiter
Motion to Compel Arbitration 
Moving Party: Defendants Pendry West Hollywood,
LLC, Montage International North America, LLC and Byron Lazaroff-Puck, joined
by Defendant Daniel Hernandez
Responding Party: Plaintiff Issa Leigh
 
T/R:     DEFENDANTS’
MOTION TO COMPEL ARBITRATION IS DENIED. 
DEFENDANT TO NOTICE.
 
If the parties wish to submit on the tentative, please
email the courtroom at SMCdept54@lacourt.org with
notice to opposing counsel (or self-represented party) before 8:00 am on the
day of the hearing.
 
The Court considers the moving papers,
opposition, and reply. 
 
BACKGROUND
 
On May 21, 2024, Plaintiff filed the
operative first amended complaint against Defendants, asserting 12 causes of
action for FEHA violations, assault, battery, and wrongful termination.
 
ANALYSIS
 
“On petition of a party to an
arbitration agreement alleging the existence of a written agreement to
arbitrate a controversy and that a party thereto refuses to arbitrate a
controversy, the court shall order the petitioner and the respondent to
arbitrate the controversy if it determines that an agreement to arbitrate the
controversy exists….”  (CCP §
1281.2.)  The right to compel arbitration
exists unless the court finds that the right has been waived by a party’s
conduct, other grounds exist for revocation of the agreement, or where a
pending court action arising out of the same transaction creates the
possibility of conflicting rulings on a common issue of law or fact.   (CCP § 1281.2(a)-(c).)  “The party seeking arbitration bears the
burden of proving the existence of an arbitration agreement, and the party
opposing arbitration bears the burden of proving any defense, such as
unconscionability.”  (Pinnacle Museum
Tower Assn. v. Pinnacle Market Development (US), LLC (2012) 55 Cal.4th 223,
236.) 
 
A. Existence of Arbitration Agreement
and Applicable Law
 
Defendants move to compel arbitration
based on the arbitration agreement executed by Plaintiff on April 6, 2022. (Mot.
Exh. 2.) The agreement provides, “The Company and I
mutually consent to the resolution by arbitration of all claims or
controversies (“claims”), past, present or future, whether or not arising out
of my employment (or its termination), that the Company may have against me or
that I (and no other party) may have against any of the following: (1) the
Company, (2) its officers, directors, employees or agents in their capacity as
such or otherwise, (3) the Company’s, parent, subsidiary and affiliated
entities, (4) the Company’s benefit plans or the plans’ sponsors, fiduciaries,
administrators, affiliates and agents, and/or (5) all successors and assigns of
any of them.” (Id.) The
agreement states that it is governed by the FAA. 
 
Defendants have met their burden to
establish an agreement to arbitrate. The burden shifts to Plaintiff to
establish any defenses to enforcement.
 
B. Enforceability of Agreement
 
Plaintiff asserts that the agreement is unenforceable under the Ending Forced Arbitration of
Sexual Assault and Sexual Harassment Act (“EFASASHA”), which provides, “...at
the election of the person alleging conduct constituting a sexual harassment
dispute or sexual assault dispute, or the named representative of a class or in
a collective action alleging such conduct, no predispute arbitration agreement
or predispute joint-action waiver shall be valid or enforceable with respect to
a case which is filed under Federal, Tribal, or State law and relates to the
sexual assault dispute or the sexual harassment dispute.” (9 U.S.C. § 402(a)).)

 
California Courts of Appeal have held
that if a Plaintiff states a claim for sexual harassment or sexual assault, all
claims in the case, including those for other torts, are exempt from
arbitration if they relate to the harassment or assault claims. (See Jane Doe v. Second Street Corp (2024) 105 Cal.App.5th 552, 577
[the EFAA facially applies to ‘a case which ... relates to the sexual assault
dispute or the sexual harassment dispute.’ (9 U.S.C. § 402(a), italics added.)])
By its plain language, then, the statute applies to the entire case, not merely
to the sexual assault or sexual harassment claims alleged as a part of the
case. It is significant, moreover, that the statute does not require that the
pendant claims arise out of the sexual assault or sexual harassment dispute; it
is enough that the case relates to the sexual assault or sexual harassment
claims.”]; Liu v. Miniso Depot CA, Inc., et al. (2024) 105 Cal.App.5th
791.)
 
Here, all of Plaintiff’s claims relate to the sexual harassment and
assault claims. The Court rejects Defendants’ argument that the claims are not “plausibly
pled.” (Yost
v. Everyrealm, Inc. (S.D.N.Y. 2023) 656 F.Supp.3d 563, 584-586.)
 
Defendants’ motion is DENIED.


 