 Case Number:  23SMCV01831    Hearing Date:   June 4, 2024    Dept:  O   Case
Name:  Sjostrand v Center Street
Lending Corp, et al.



Case No.:


23SMCV01831


Complaint Filed:


4-27-23           




Hearing Date:


5-7-24 


Discovery C/O:


N/A




Calendar No.:


5


Discovery Motion C/O:


N/A




POS:


OK


 Trial Date:


None



SUBJECT:                 DEMURRER WITHOUT MOTION TO
STRIKE
MOVING
PARTY:   Defendants Center Street
Lending Corporation, Bye Bye House, Inc., and Marco Toscano
RESP.
PARTY:         Plaintiff Peter
Sjostrand
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
            Defendants
Center Street Lending Corporation, Bye Bye House, Inc, and Marco Toscano’s
Demurrer without Motion to Strike to all causes of action within Plaintiff
Peter Sjostrand’s FAC is SUSTAINED as to each cause of action with 20 days
leave to amend. 
 
Defendant’s Request for Judicial Notice is granted.  Based on the facts judicially noticed,
plaintiff cannot as a matter of law allege he is the owner of the Casiano
Property or had a legal the right to occupy or possess that property. (RJN ex.
8, grant deed from Birgitta M. Sjostrand to Bye Bye House Inc.)  Nor can Plaintiff allege he physically resided
at the Casiano Property or was in physical possession of that property.  (RJN ex. 2, Plaintiff’s First Amended Complaint
Case no. 22SMCV00534 (filed11-3-2022), pg. 2:23-24 “Peter Sjostrand is the only
child of Birgitta and her husband Fritiof Sjostrand. He resides in Bolder Colorado.”
 
does not plead enough facts to meet the elements of the 1st–5th
causes of action in the FAC. 
 
I.               
Defendants Demurrer to 1st cause of
action for Trespass to Land—SUSTAINED without leave to amend
 
“In the context of a trespass
action, ‘possession’ is synonymous with ‘occupation’ and connotes a subjection
of property to one's will and control.” (Veiseh v. Stapp (2019) 35 Cal.App.5th
1099, 1105  Plaintiff fails to allege
that he personally occupied or otherwise was in possession or control of the
Casio Property, as opposed to some unidentified “occupant.”  Based on the judicially noted facts, Sjostrand
cannot allege he owned the property or that he personally occupied the
property.  Sjorstrand, therefore, fails
to allege he was Defendants Demurrer to the first cause of action for Trespass
to Land is SUSTAINED WITHOUT leave to amend. 
 
II.            
Defendants Demurrer to 2nd cause of
action for Trespass to Chattels—SUSTAINED with 20 days leave to amend.
[
“It is well settled that a person
having neither the possession nor the right to the possession of personal
chattels, cannot maintain trespass or trover for an injury done to the
property.” (Triscony v. Orr (1875) 49 Cal. 612, 617, internal citations omitted.)  See also, Judicial Council Of California
Civil Jury Instruction 2101, Judicial Council Of California Civil Jury
Instruction 210.  “Though not amounting
to conversion, the defendant's interference must, to be actionable, have caused
some injury to the chattel or to the plaintiff's rights in it. Under California
law, trespass to chattels ‘lies where an intentional interference with the
possession of personal property has proximately caused injury.” (Jamgotchian
v. Slender (2009) 170 Cal.App.4th 1384, 1401; see Intel Corp. v. Hamidi
(2003) 30 Cal.4th 1342, 1352 [“injury to the personal property or the
possessor's interest in it is an element of the action”].)
 
Sjostrand pleads that Defendants
“rambled” through his and his mothers personal property and took that property.
Sjostrand does not allege how he possessed that property or how the defendants
damaged his personal property.  
 
Thus, Defendants demurrer to the 2nd
cause of action for Trespass to Chattels is SUSTAINED with 20 days leave to
amend.
 
III.          
Defendants Demurrer to 3rd cause of
action for IIED—SUSTAINED with 20 days leave to amend
 
The
elements of a cause of action for intentional infliction of emotional distress
are (1) outrageous conduct by the defendant, (2) intention to cause or reckless
disregard of the probability of causing emotional distress, (3) severe
emotional suffering, and (4) actual and proximate causation of the emotional
distress. “Conduct is extreme and outrageous when it exceeds all bounds of
decency usually tolerated by a decent society, and is of a nature which is
especially calculated to cause, and does cause, mental distress. Liability does
not extend to mere insults, indignities, threats, annoyances, petty
oppressions, or other trivialities.” (Fisher v. San Pedro Peninsula Hospital
(1989) 214 Cal.App.3d 590, 618.)
 
Whether a defendant's conduct can
reasonably be found to be outrageous is a question of law that must initially
be determined by the court. (See Berkley v. Dowds (2007) 152 Cal.App.4th
518, 534 [affirming order sustaining demurrer to IIED cause of action without
leave to amend based on failure to allege outrageous conduct].) If reasonable
persons may differ, it is for the jury to determine whether the conduct was
actually outrageous. (Id.)
 
Sjostrand does not plead whether he
was in actual control of the Property at the time of the alleged “breaking
into” of the Property, nor does Sjostrand plead that Defendants intended to
cause or had reckless disregard for the probability of causing emotional
distress. Furthermore, Sjostrand bases his allegations on a TRO that was
terminated by the Court on 3-2-23. (See FAC, p. 4:10-12l; see also RJN, Ex. 3,
p. 4 [“[Sjostrand’s] request for preliminary injunction is DENIED. …. The TRO
is terminated.”) Sjostrand pleads that the alleged break in occurred on 3-27-23
and 5-17-23, after the TRO was terminated. (See FAC, p. 2.)
 
Thus, Defendants Demurrer to the 3rd
cause of action for IIED is SUSTAINED with 20 days leave to amend. 
 
IV.          
Defendants Demurrer to 4th cause of
action for NIED—SUSTAINED without leave to amend
 
NIED is not a separate tort, but
the tort of negligence and duty is an essential element. (Potter v.
Firestone Tire & Rubber Co. (1993) 6 Cal.4th 965, 985. 
The elements of NIED are (1) that defendant was negligent; (2) plaintiff
suffered serious emotional distress; and (3) that defendant’s negligent was a
substantial factor in causing plaintiff’s serious emotional distress.  (See
CACI 1620.)   
 
“[T]he negligent causing of
emotional distress is not an independent tort but the tort of negligence....The
traditional elements of duty, breach of duty, causation, and damages apply. [¶
] Whether a defendant owes a duty of care is a question of law. Its existence
depends upon the foreseeability of the risk and upon a weighing of policy
considerations for and against imposition of liability.” (Marlene F. v.
Affiliated Psychiatric Medical Clinic, Inc. (1989) 48 Cal.3d 583, 588.)
 
Sjostrand does not plead that Defendants
owed Sjostrand a duty, there was a breach of that duty, causation, and damages.
Thus, Defendants Demurrer to the 4th cause of action for NIED is
SUSTAINED with 20 days to amend. 
 
V.             
Defendants Demurrer to 5th cause of
action for Conversion—SUSTAINED with 20 days leave to amend. 
  
            “Conversion is the wrongful exercise of dominion over
the property of another.  The elements of a conversion are: (1) the
plaintiff's ownership or right to possession of the property at the time of the
conversion; (2) the defendant's conversion by a wrongful act or disposition of
property rights; and (3) damages.  It is not necessary that there be a
manual taking of the property; it is only necessary to show an assumption of
control or ownership over the property, or that the alleged converter has
applied the property to his own use.”  (Farmers Ins. Exchange v. Zerin (1997)
53 Cal.App.4th 441, 451-452.)
 
            Sjostrand
does not plead that the alleged personal property in the house was owned or
controlled by Sjostrand at the time of the alleged conversion. Sjostrand does
not plead damages. 
Thus, Defendants Demurrer to the 5th cause of
action for Conversion is SUSTAINED with 20 days leave to amend. 
 


 