 Case Number:  23SMCP00620    Hearing Date:   June 4, 2024    Dept:  O Case
Name:  Law Offices of Levin &
Margolin v. O’Halloran



Case No.:


23SMCP00620


Complaint Filed:


11-29-23         




Hearing Date:


6-4-24 


Discovery C/O:


N/A




Calendar No.:


1


Discovery Motion C/O:


N/A




POS:


OK


 Trial Date:


None



SUBJECT:                 MOTION TO COMPEL ARBITRATION
MOVING
PARTY:   Petitioner Law Offices of
Levin & Margolin
RESP.
PARTY:         No responsive party as
of 5-29-24
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
            Petitioner Law Offices of Levin & Margolin’s Motion
to Compel Arbitration is GRANTED 
 
The Court orders the
parties to stipulate to an arbitrator within five days from the hearing from
the following list: Hon. Thomas Trent Lewis, Hon. John Ouderkirk, and Hon. Roy
Paul.  If no arbitrator is mutually
selected within five days from the hearing the Court will select the
arbitrator. (See Code Civ. Proc., § 1281.6.) 
  
On
petition of a party to an arbitration agreement alleging the existence of a
written agreement to arbitrate a controversy and that a party to the agreement
refuses to arbitrate that controversy, the court shall order the petitioner and
the respondent to arbitrate the controversy if it determines that an agreement
to arbitrate the controversy exists, unless it determines that:
(a)
The right to compel arbitration has been waived by the petitioner; or
(b)
Grounds exist for rescission of the agreement.
 
            (Code Civ. Proc., § 1281.2.)
 
            “In the absence of an agreed method [to appoint an
arbitrator] . . . the court, on petition of a party to the arbitration
agreement, shall appoint the arbitrator.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 1281.6.) When a
petition is made to the court to appoint a neutral arbitrator, the court
shall nominate five persons from lists of persons supplied jointly by the
parties to the arbitration or obtained from a governmental agency concerned
with arbitration or private disinterested association concerned with
arbitration. The parties to the agreement who seek arbitration and against whom
arbitration is sought may within five days of receipt of notice of the nominees
from the court jointly select the arbitrator whether or not the arbitrator is
among the nominees. If the parties fail to select an arbitrator within the
five-day period, the court shall appoint the arbitrator from the nominees.
(Ibid., emphasis added.)
 
            Petitioner Law Offices of Levin
& Margolin’s (“L&M”) moves to compel arbitration based on the
arbitration agreement within the written retainer (“Arbitration Agreement”)
agreed upon by L&M and Respondent Ashley O’Halloran (“O’Halloran”) on
6-26-20. The Arbitration Agreement states: 
 
It
is understood that any dispute with respect to whether legal services rendered
pursuant to this Retainer Agreement were unnecessary or unauthorized or were
improperly, negligently or incompetently rendered, will be determined by
submission to binding arbitration as provided by California law, and not by a
lawsuit or resort to Court process, except as California law may provide for
judicial review of arbitration proceedings. Both parties to this Retainer
Agreement are giving up their constitutional right to have any such dispute
decided in a court of law before a jury, and instead are accepting the use of
binding arbitration.
 
(11-29-23
Petition to Compel Arbitration (“Petition”) ¶¶ 2–3; Ex. A, p. 4.)
 
            L&M provided O’Halloran with a
“Notice of Right to Arbitrate” on 5-18-23. (Petition, Ex. B.) Substitute
Service was effected on 3-28-24. (See 5-13-24 Proof of Substitute Service; see
also Code Civ. Pro. § 415.20.) The Arbitration Agreement does not contain a
method to appoint an arbitrator, thus the Court will nominate an arbitrator from
a list of five persons jointly provided the parties. (See CCP § 1281.6.)
L&M provides three retired judge nominees as potential arbitrators
including Hon. Thomas Trent Lewis, Hon. John Ouderkirk, and Hon. Roy Paul.
(Petition, ¶ 6.) O’Halloran has not provided any potential arbitrators. The
Court orders both parties to stipulate to an arbitrator from the list provided
within five days of the hearing. (See CCP § 1281.6.)  If no arbitrator is mutually selected within
the five days, the Court will select the arbitrator from the list provided. (Ibid.)
 
            The Court finds that there has been
no waiver to arbitrate by the Petitioner, and Respondent provides no grounds
for recission of the agreement. Thus, the Motion to Compel arbitration is
GRANTED pursuant to CCP § 1281.2.