  Case Number:  23STCV17235    Hearing Date:   April 19, 2024    Dept:  40 Superior
Court of California
County
of Los Angeles
Department 40
 



JASON GUNNELS, DENAE JACOBSON, GABRIELA JACOBO, ANDREA JACOBO,
  ANTOINE JONES, MICHAEL MANUEL, ERIC POWERS, DAISSY SANCHEZ, RAPHAEL SCHMIDT,
  REJOICE SCHMIDT, CATHERINE BELMES, ANASTASIYA SAIKINA, TATIANA FITCH, KAPIL
  TALWALKAR, LILY WEAVER, CATHERINE YTELL, DEBORAH ALVAREZ, ARMON BEHBAHANY,
  RAYMOD BRIDGES, SANICE BRIDGES, LISA CLAYTON, AIKATERINI MARINOU, ANYELA
  NAJARRO, RICARDO NEWSOM, JESSICA ROMERO, ODILIA SIFONTES and TIFFANNE STRONG,
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
EQUITY RESIDENTIAL MANAGEMENT, LLC, TRANSUNION RENTAL SCREENING SOLUTIONS,
  INC. and DOES 1 through 10,
                        Defendants.


 Case No.:          23STCV17235
 Hearing Date:   4/19/24
 Trial Date:        N/A
 [TENTATIVE] RULING RE:
Defendant TransUnion’s
  Demurrer to the Second Cause of Action in Plaintiff’s First Amended Complaint.



 
I. Background
A. Pleadings
Plaintiffs—i.e., Jason
Gunnels, Denae Jacobson, Gabriela Jacobo, Andrea Jacobo, Antoine Jones, Michael
Manuel, Eric Powers, Daissy Sanchez, Raphael Schmidt, Rejoice Schmidt,
Catherine Belmes, Anastasiya Saikina, Tatiana Fitch, Kapil Talwalkar, Lily
Weaver, Catherine Y’tell, Deborah Alvarez, Armon Behbahany, Raymod Bridges,
Sanice Bridges, Lisa Clayton, Aikaterini Marinou, Anyela Najarro, Ricardo
Newsom, Jessica Romero, Odilia Sifontes, and Tiffanne Strong—sue Defendants Equity Residential Management, L.L.C. (ERM),
TransUnion Rental Screening Solutions, Inc. (TransUnion), and Does 1 through 10
pursuant to an October 27, 2023, First Amended Complaint (FAC) alleging claims
of (1) Violations of the Investigative Consumer Reporting Agencies Act (ICRAA),
Cal. Civ. Code § 1786, et seq., (2) Invasion of Privacy, and (3) Declaratory
Relief.
The claims arise from allegations that, among other things, in the past
two years, and within the applicable statute of limitations, Plaintiffs applied
for housing in apartment complexes owned by most if not all Defendants and that
those owner Defendants used a portion of Plaintiffs’ application fees to obtain
investigative consumer reports on Plaintiffs from Defendants TransUnion without
disclosing the same to Plaintiffs, conduct which is alleged to violate disclosure
requirements in the ICRAA.
On August 4, 2023, this action was determined
to be non-complex by Department 11 at the Spring Street Courthouse.
On August 11, 2023, Department 1
reassigned this action to Department 40 at the Stanley Mosk Courthouse.
On October 18, 2023, this Court
sustained the demurrer of Equity Residential Management to the original
complaint in this matter, with leave to amend. The First Amended Complaint was
filed on October 27, 2023.
B. Motion Before the
Court
On December 13, 2023,
TransUnion filed a demurrer to the FAC’s invasion of privacy claim. The
demurrer does not challenge the statutory ICRAA claim or the claim for
declaratory relief.
On April 8, 2024,
Plaintiff Gunnels filed an opposition to TransUnion’s demurrer.
On April 11, 2024,
TransUnion filed a reply to Plaintiff’s opposition.
TransUnion’s demurrer
is now before the Court.
 
II. Demurrer: SUSTAINED, with
leave to amend.
A.
Legal Standard
A
demurrer for sufficiency tests whether the complaint states a cause of action.
(Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747; see Code Civ. Proc., §
430.10, subd. (e).)
To
sufficiently allege a cause of action, a complaint must allege all the ultimate
facts—that is, the facts needed to establish each element of the cause of
action pleaded. (Committee on Children’s Television, Inc. v. General Foods
Corp. (1983) 35 Cal.3d 197, 212, superseded by statute as stated in Branick
v. Downey Savings & Loan Assn. (2006) 39 Cal.4th 235, 242.) “[E]ach
evidentiary fact that might eventually form part of the plaintiff’s proof need
not be alleged.” (C.A. v. William S. Hart Union High School Dist. (2012)
53 Cal.4th 861, 872.)
In
testing the sufficiency of the cause of action, the demurrer admits the truth
of all material facts properly pleaded. (Aubry v. Tri-City Hospital Dist.
(1992) 2 Cal.4th 962, 966-67.) Courts read the allegations liberally and in
context. (Taylor v. City of Los Angeles Dept. of Water and Power (2006)
144 Cal.App.4th 1216, 1228, disapproved on other grounds, Jones v. Lodge at
Torrey Pines Partnership (2008) 42 Cal.4th 1158, 1162.) A demurrer,
however, “does not admit contentions, deductions or conclusions of fact or
law.” (Daar v. Yellow Cab Co. (1967) 67 Cal.2d 695, 713.) 
B.
Analysis
1. Relevant Law
To allege an invasion of privacy in
violation of the state constitutional right, a plaintiff “must establish each
of the following: (1) a legally protected privacy interest; (2) a reasonable
expectation of privacy in the circumstances; and (3) conduct by defendant
constituting a serious invasion of privacy.” (Hill v. National Collegiate
Athletic Assn. (1994) 7 Cal.4th 1, 39-40 (Hill).) Defendants may
prevail by negating any element or “by pleading and proving, as an affirmative
defense, that the invasion of privacy is justified because it substantively
furthers one or more countervailing interests. Plaintiff, in turn, may rebut a
defendant’s assertion of countervailing interests by showing there are feasible
and effective alternatives to defendant’s conduct which have a lesser impact on
privacy interests.” (Id. at p. 40.) “Actionable invasions of privacy
must be sufficiently serious in their nature, scope, and actual or potential
impact to constitute an egregious breach of the social norms underlying the
privacy right.” (Id. at p. 37.)
“[E]xcept in cases involving
physical intrusion, the tort [of invasion of privacy] must be accompanied by
publicity in the sense of communication to the public in general or to a large
number of persons as distinguished from one individual or a few. [Citation.] ‘The
gravamen of the tort is unwarranted publication of intimate details of
plaintiff's private life. [Citations.] The interest to be protected is
individual freedom from the wrongful publicizing of private affairs and
activities which are outside the realm of legitimate public concern. [Citations.]’
[Citation.]” (Kinsey v. Macur (1980) 107 Cal.App.3d 265, 270 (Kinsey).)
2. Allegations
The FAC’s second cause of action
alleges an invasion of privacy by Defendants through Defendants obtaining and
furnishing investigative consumer reports about Plaintiffs without complying
with mandatory requirements of the ICRAA relating to such reports. (FAC, ¶¶ 75-72;
see FAC, ¶¶ 32-52 [common factual allegations to all counts].)
3. Parties’
Arguments
In its demurrer, TransUnion argues
that the invasion of privacy claim is defective on three grounds. First, the
claim does not allege a physical intrusion, for which reason the FAC must
allege that the disclosure was as to private facts, not public ones, and was
made to the public at large or to a large number of persons, distinguished from
one individual or a few. Second, TransUnion argues that Plaintiffs did not have
a reasonable expectation of privacy in their consumer reports, as released by
TransUnion to ERM, where the FAC itself alleges that Plaintiffs recognized and
agreed that a part of their individual rental housing applications with ERM could
involve background checks from a consumer reporting agency. Third, TransUnion
argues that the FAC fails to allege an invasion of privacy that is highly
offensive to a reasonable person given that the FAC alleges Plaintiffs’
understanding that background checks were part of the rental application
process.
In opposition, Plaintiffs argue
that they have a privacy interest in their consumer reports, that the
reasonable expectation of privacy in those reports was violated when Defendants
failed to comply with ICRAA disclosure requirements, and—without citing to
relevant authority at section II.C.—that litigation will reveal the seriousness
of the invasion of privacy, where demurrer proceedings are entirely unsuited
for the mixed legal and factual questions required for this determination. Plaintiffs
also add brief arguments supporting leave to amend, as applicable.
In reply, TransUnion notes that the
opposing papers fail to rebut arguments relating to whether the FAC alleges a
public disclosure of private facts, either to the public at large or to a large
number of persons, distinguished from one individual or a few. TransUnion then
argues that Plaintiffs’ consent to background checks, as alleged in the FAC,
shows the non-viability of Plaintiffs’ claim for invasion of privacy. TransUnion
adds that Plaintiffs’ FAC does not allege an intrusion that is highly offensive
to a reasonable person where Plaintiffs allege to have consented to consumer
reports being created, and where the opposition’s sole cited authority did not
hold that ICRAA violations are in and of themselves egregious violations of
societal norms. Last, TransUnion attacks authority cited generally at page two in
Plaintiffs’ opposition for the position that a complaint is invulnerable to a
demurrer if it states a cause of action on any theory.
4. Court’s
Determination
The Court finds in favor of
TransUnion.
First, the Court determines that
the FAC fails to allege an invasion of privacy that is so serious in nature as
to be highly offensive to a reasonable person. (Hill, supra, 7
Cal.4th at pp. 39-40.)
Here, the FAC itself alleges that
Plaintiffs were aware that their rental applications involved background checks
that could involve consumer reports. (FAC, ¶ 34.) After Plaintiffs completed
their applications, such a background check was allegedly completed by
TransUnion and disclosed to ERM. (FAC, ¶¶ 34, 40.) The Plaintiffs thus
consented to the disclosure of their information from a consumer reporting
agency to ERM. The only other wrong seemingly alleged by Plaintiffs against
TransUnion beyond the disclosures to ERM appears to be failure to comply with
Civil Code section 1786.20 regarding certain information that must be posted on
TransUnion’s website, an allegation incorporated into the invasion of privacy
count that does not relate to disclosure of Plaintiffs’ private information.
(FAC, ¶¶ 67-71 [ICRAA violation], ¶ 75 [incorporation].) Under these
circumstances, the FAC fails to allege an invasion of privacy that is highly
offensive to a reasonable person going through a rental application process
with advance knowledge that submitting the application involves consent to the
landlord obtaining consumer reports regarding the applicants.
Plaintiffs’ argument that
litigation—presumably the discovery process—will show the seriousness of the
invasion of privacy is 1) undermined by the allegations in the FAC, as
discussed in the preceding paragraph, and 2) an argument unsupported by any
cited authority. Moreover, this case has been pending since July, 2023 with no
stay on discovery. However, this is an argument in favor of granting leave to
amend.
Second, the Court determines that
the FAC does not sufficiently allege disclosure of Plaintiffs’ consumer reports
to the public at large or to a large number of persons rather than to an
individual or a few individuals. (Kinsey, supra, 107 Cal.App.3d
at p. 270.)
The FAC alleges disclosure of each
individual Plaintiff’s consumer report from TransUnion to ERM. (See FAC, ¶¶ 33,
40, 47, 51-52 [facts common to all counts alleging disclosures by TransUnion to
ERM alone], 71 [TransUnion’s violation of ICRAA provisions by failure to
provide required privacy notices on website, indicating TransUnion disclosed
Plaintiffs’ consumer reports to “Defendants” generally and no one else] 75
[incorporation], 77 [reasonable expectation of privacy in TransUnion complying
with consumer report laws], 79 [invasion of privacy arose from Defendants’
previously alleged background conduct], 80 [disclosures by TransUnion to ERM
alone].) 
Read liberally, the FAC alleges what
appears to be a single disclosure of each Plaintiff’s consumer report from
TransUnion to ERM, failing to allege whether TransUnion furnished the report to
individuals or entity beyond ERM or its employees. As an illustration of the
Court’s point, the Court refers to the FAC’s 40th paragraph, which alleges that
“Plaintiffs are informed and believe that [ERM] procured at least one
investigative consumer report about Plaintiffs from TransUnion Rental Screening.”
Those allegations fail to amount to public disclosure or disclosure to a large
number of persons. And as noted in TransUnion’s reply at page four, the
opposition fails to address the public disclosure issue. Last, though not
raised by the parties, the Court notes that insofar as a large number of
reports were disclosed by TransUnion to ERM because there are multiple
Plaintiffs involved in this action, the Court only consider disclosures as to
each individual Plaintiff for the purposes of this analysis. The second cause
of action is thus insufficiently alleged.
In summary, the fact that there is a
basis on a given set of facts for a statutory claim under the ICRAA does not automatically
mean that there is a basis for a common law invasion of privacy claim, as the
elements of that cause of action have been defined by our courts. As noted by
the Supreme Court in Connor v. First Student, Inc. (2018) 5 Cal.5th 1026,
1032, ICRAA was “enacted to ensure that consumer reporting agencies ‘exercise
their grave responsibilities with fairness, impartiality, and a respect for the
consumer’s right to privacy.’ . . . The statute was, in part, designed to
protect consumers from identity theft by giving them ‘copies of any investigative
consumer reports made on them.’” 
However, as concluded above, more must be alleged in order to withstand
demurrer as to the common law invasion of privacy claim.
For these reasons, the Court
SUSTAINS TransUnion’s demurrer.
However, in light of the Plaintiff’s
request, the Court will grant leave to amend. 
III. Conclusion
Defendant TransUnion’s Demurrer to the Second Cause of Action in
Plaintiff’s First Amended Complaint is SUSTAINED, with leave to amend.