  Case Number:  21TRCV00136    Hearing Date:   June 24, 2024    Dept:  M LOS ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT –
SOUTHWEST DISTRICT
 
 
Honorable Gary Y. Tanaka                                                                                           Monday, June 24, 2024
Department M                                                                                                                          Calendar
No. 11
 
PROCEEDINGS
 
            Carol Joyce Pleatman, et al. v. Liberty Mutual
Insurance Company, et al.
            21TRCV00136
1.      Active
Environmental Solutions, LLC, et al.’s Motion to Compel Arbitration  
 
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 
            Active Environmental Solutions, LLC, et al.’s Motion to
Compel Arbitration is denied. 
 
            Background
 
Plaintiffs filed the Complaint on February 26, 2021. Plaintiffs’
First Amended Complaint was filed on July 15, 2022. Plaintiffs’ Second Amended
Complaint was filed on February 27, 2023. Plaintiffs’ Third Amended Complaint
(“TAC”) was filed on October 17, 2023. Plaintiffs’ Fourth Amended Complaint
(“4AC”) was filed on February 26, 2024. Plaintiffs allege the following facts. Plaintiffs
suffered water damage on their real property, located at 111 Avenue F., Unit 1,
Redondo Beach, CA 90277, on March 2, 2020, when the toilet in the bathroom
overflowed. Plaintiffs allege claims of insurance bad faith against the
insurance carriers as well as claims against contractors based on failure to
remediate. Manuel Rocha is alleged to be the sales agent who sold the HOA
policy written by Farmers Insurance Exchange. Plaintiffs allege the following
causes of action: 1. Breach of Written Contract; 2. Breach of the Implied
Covenant of Good Faith and Fair Dealing; 3. Intentional Misrepresentation and
Fraud; 4. Negligent Misrepresentation and Fraud; 5. IIED; 6. Elder Abuse; 7.
Negligence; 8. Violation of Bus. & Prof. Code 17200; 9. Breach of Written
Contract; 10. Breach of Written Contract.
 
Motion to
Compel Arbitration
 
“California law reflects a strong public policy in
favor of arbitration as a relatively quick and inexpensive method for resolving
disputes.  [Citation.]  To further
that policy, [Code of Civil Procedure] section 1281.2 requires a trial court to
enforce a written arbitration agreement unless one of three limited exceptions
applies.  [Citation.]  Those statutory exceptions arise where (1) a
party waives the right to arbitration; (2) grounds exist for revoking the
arbitration agreement; and (3) pending litigation with a third party creates
the possibility of conflicting rulings on common factual or legal issues.  (§ 1281.2, subds. (a)–(c).)”  Acquire II, Ltd. v. Colton Real Estate
Group (2013) 213 Cal.App.4th 959, 967. 
 
“The petitioner bears the
burden of proving the existence of a valid arbitration agreement by the
preponderance of the evidence, and a party opposing the petition bears the
burden of proving by a preponderance of the evidence any fact necessary to its
defense.  In these summary proceedings,
the trial court sits as a trier of fact, weighing all the affidavits,
declarations, and other documentary evidence, as well as oral testimony
received at the court’s discretion, to reach a final determination.”  Giuliano v. Inland Empire Personnel, Inc.
(2007) 149 Cal.App.4th 1276, 1284.
 
“The party opposing
arbitration has the burden of demonstrating that an arbitration clause cannot
be interpreted to require arbitration of the dispute.  Nonetheless, this policy does not override
ordinary principles of contract interpretation. 
[T]he contractual terms themselves must be carefully examined before the
parties to the contract can be ordered to arbitration:  Although [t]he law favors contracts for
arbitration of disputes between parties, there is no policy compelling persons
to accept arbitration of controversies which they have not agreed to
arbitrate.”  Rice v. Downs (2016)
247 Cal.App.4th 1213, 1223 (internal citations and quotations omitted). 
 
In Rowe v. Exline (2007) 153 Cal.App.4th 1276, 1286, the Court of
Appeal found that “a nonsignatory sued as an agent of a signatory may enforce
an arbitration agreement.”  Id. at 1286.  In addition, “a nonsignatory who is the agent
of a signatory can even be compelled to arbitrate claims against his
will.”  Id. at 1285, citing Harris v. Superior Court (1986) 188
Cal.App.3d 475, 477–78.  Further, “in
many cases, nonparties to arbitration agreements are allowed to enforce those
agreements where there is sufficient identity of parties.”  Valley
Casework, Inc. v. Comfort Construction, Inc. (1999) 76 Cal.App.4th 1013,
1021.  This includes nonparties as agents
of a party as well as “a third party beneficiary of an arbitration
agreement.”  Ibid.  
 
Defendants move to compel
arbitration pursuant to the FAA on the grounds that an arbitration agreement
exists between the parties. The work authorization form that was signed by
Plaintiff Carol Pleatman states: “Client agrees that any disputes resulting
from these services shall be resolved by binding Arbitration in accordance with
the rules of the American Arbitration Association.”  (Declaration, Joshua Lingurar, Ex. A.)  The Court notes that the contract was only
signed by Carol Pleatman and there is no showing that she signed the agreement also
on behalf of co-Plaintiff Carol Pleatman as Trustee on behalf of the Pleatman
Family Trust.  In addition, there is no
showing that moving party Joshua Lingurar is also a party to the work
authorization agreement. Carol Pleatman does not meaningfully dispute that an
agreement exists between her individually and Active Environmental Solutions
LLC and that the agreement attempted to set forth an arbitration clause.
 
However, Defendants failed
to meet their burden to establish a necessary prerequisite to compelling
arbitration – a demand and refusal to proceed with arbitration. “[S]ection
1281.2 does require a party seeking to compel arbitration to plead and prove a
prior demand for arbitration under the parties' arbitration agreement and a
refusal to arbitrate under the agreement.” Mansouri v. Superior Court
(2010) 181 Cal.App.4th 633, 640. “Section 1281.2 expressly requires a petition
to compel arbitration to allege “the existence of a written agreement to
arbitrate a controversy and that a party thereto refuses to arbitrate such
controversy[.]” The necessary implication of this language is that a request or
demand for arbitration under the written agreement to arbitrate has been made
and refused. Such demand and refusal is what requires and justifies the
intervention of the court to order arbitration under the agreement. It makes no
sense for this language to be read to allow a petitioner to compel arbitration
on allegations and proof of a written agreement to arbitrate the controversy,
but with allegations and proof that arbitration under some other statutory
scheme or contract was offered and refused. The Legislature plainly intended
section 1281.2 to provide a procedural device for enforcing the parties'
written arbitration agreement if one or more of the parties would not agree to
such arbitration.” Mansouri v. Superior Court (2010) 181 Cal.App.4th
633, 641.
 
Defendants argue that
Section 1281.2 does not apply, and that, instead, the FAA applies to this
dispute. “When an agreement falls within the purview of the FAA, there is a
strong default presumption ... that the FAA, not state law, supplies the rules
for arbitration. To overcome that presumption, parties to an arbitration
agreement must evidence a ‘clear intent’ to incorporate state law rules for
arbitration.” Johnson v. Gruma Corp. (9th Cir. 2010) 614 F.3d 1062, 1066
(internal citations and quotations omitted). Defendants contend that nothing in
the agreement shows an intent to incorporate state law. However, Defendants
have merely provided a conclusion that the FAA applies. The agreement itself
must be one that evidence interstate commerce within the purview of the FAA. Id.
Here, Defendants submitted no evidence that the agreement is one that involves
interstate commerce. A similar issue was addressed by the California Court of
Appeals. The Court stated in Wools v. Superior Court (2005) 127
Cal.App.4th 172, 213 as follows: “[Defendant] did not make any
evidentiary showing in furtherance of his assertion this transaction involves
interstate commerce. Although [Defendant] argued the issue of federal
preemption in his papers below, [Defendant] did not submit any declarations to
show the instant transaction involves interstate commerce.” Id.
Similarly, in the instant case, Defendants submitted no competent evidence to
show that the transaction involved interstate commerce.
 
Defendants argue that the
refusal to proceed with arbitration cannot be disputed and that no written
agreement is necessary. No authority is provided for the proposition that
essentially no evidence whatsoever can be presented regarding Plaintiffs’ alleged
refusal to arbitrate and that apparently the Court should simply glean this
refusal from the record. The Court finds that, at a minimum, to meet this
initial burden Defendants must provide some evidence showing a refusal to
arbitrate prior to filing this motion. Nothing in the declarations of Joshua
Lingurar or Keith A. Haskins demonstrates a refusal to arbitrate. In
Plaintiffs’ opposition, they mention that Defendants initially made some
comments regarding arbitration, but never followed up or formally demanded
arbitration prior to filing this motion.
 
Because Defendants have
failed to satisfy the threshold requirement prior to moving to compel
arbitration, the Court need not address Plaintiffs’ other grounds of defenses
to arbitration including waiver and the possibility of conflicting rulings.
 
Defendants’ Motion to Compel
Arbitration is denied.
 
Plaintiffs are ordered to
give notice of this ruling.