  Case Number:  21STCV45529    Hearing Date:   September 29, 2023    Dept:  27 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Kerry Bensinger, Department 27
 
 
HEARING DATE:     September
29, 2023               TRIAL DATE:  January
17, 2024
                                                           
CASE:                                Gregory Jackson v. City of Los Angeles, et al.
 
CASE NO.:                 21STCV45529
 





















 
MOTION
TO CONTINUE TRIAL



 
MOVING PARTY:                   Defendant
RPL Investments, LLC
 
RESPONDING PARTY:     No opposition
 
 
I.          BACKGROUND
 
            On August 17, 2023, Defendant, RPL Investments, LLC, filed this
motion to continue the trial date. 
Defendant does not request that all related cutoff dates be set to the
new trial date  This is the second
request for a trial continuance.
 
            The motion
is unopposed.
 
II.           LEGAL STANDARD TO CONTINUE TRIAL
California Rules of Court, rule
3.1332, subdivision (b) outlines that “a party seeking a continuance of the
date set for trial, whether contested or uncontested or stipulated to by the
parties, must make the request for a continuance by a noticed motion or an ex
parte application under the rules in chapter 4 of this division, with
supporting declarations.  The party must make the motion or application as
soon as reasonably practical once the necessity for the continuance is
discovered.” 
Under California Rules of Court,
rule 3.1332, subd. (c), the Court may grant a continuance only on an
affirmative showing of good cause requiring the continuance.  Circumstances that may indicate good cause
include “a party’s excused inability to obtain essential testimony, documents,
or other material evidence despite diligent efforts.”  The Court should
consider all facts and circumstances relevant to the determination, such as
proximity of the trial date, prior continuances, prejudice suffered, whether all
parties have stipulated to a continuance, and whether the interests of justice
are served.  (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1332, subd. (d).) 
Deadlines
for Summary Judgment Motion
            Code of
Civil Procedure, section 437c requires a Motion for Summary Judgment be made
any time after 60 days have elapsed since the general appearance in the
action.¿ The motion shall be heard no later than 30 days before trial, unless
the Court, for good cause, orders otherwise.¿ Parties must serve notice of the
motion and all supporting papers at least 75 days before the time appointed for
hearing.¿  
III.      DISCUSSION
 
            Defendant
argues good cause exists to continue the trial date because Defendant reserved
the earliest available hearing date for its motion for summary
judgment. The motion is scheduled to be heard on August 2, 2024.  (See Poweres Decl.)  Trial is currently
scheduled for January 17, 2024.  For this reason, Defendant requests a
trial continuance so that its summary judgment motion may be heard before
trial. 
 
            Based on
the foregoing, the Court finds good cause exists to continue the trial date. Defendant
is entitled to have its summary judgment motion heard before trial.  The Court further notes Defendant has already
served and filed its summary judgment motion. 
As this is the second trial continuance request only and no party has
opposed this motion, the Court also finds no prejudice will result from
granting this motion. 
 
IV.       CONCLUSION 
 
The unopposed motion to continue trial is GRANTED.  Defendant RPL Investments, LLC’s motion for
summary judgment is scheduled for August 2, 2024.  The Final Status Conference scheduled for January
3, 2024 is CONTINUED to August 20, 2024 at 10:00 AM in Department 27 of the
Spring Street Courthouse.  The Non-Jury
Trial scheduled for January 17, 2024 is CONTINUED to September 3, 2024 at 8:30
AM in Department 27 of the Spring Street Courthouse.  All discovery cut-off dates, all pretrial
deadlines including discovery, expert, and motion cut-off dates remain set to
the prior trial date of January 17, 2024.
 
Moving party to give notice. 

 
 
Dated:   September 29,
2023                                            ___________________________________
                                                                                    Kerry
Bensinger
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court
 
            Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must send an
email to the Court at SSCDEPT27@lacourt.org indicating intention to submit on
the tentative as directed by the instructions provided on the court website at
www.lacourt.org.  Please be advised that if you submit on the tentative
and elect not to appear at the hearing, the opposing party may nevertheless
appear at the hearing and argue the matter.  Unless you receive a
submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume that others
might appear at the hearing to argue.  If the Court does not receive
emails from the parties indicating submission on this tentative ruling and
there are no appearances at the hearing, the Court may, at its discretion,
adopt the tentative as the final order or place the motion off calendar. 