 Case Number:  23STCV08035    Hearing Date:   March 27, 2024    Dept:  17 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
 
DEPARTMENT 17
 



Luis Silva
  
         vs.
 
General Motors LLC 

 


 Case
  No.:   23STCV08035
 
 
 
 Hearing Date: March 27, 2024




 
            
            The Court DENIES the Motion to Compel Further Request
for Production.  
 
 
            Brief Background
 
This
is a breach of warranty case about a 2018 Chevrolet Silverado (“Subject
Vehicle” or “Silverado”). Plaintiff Luis Silva (“Plaintiff”) filed the
complaint against Defendant General Motors LLC (“Defendant”) on April 11, 2023.

 
On
September 26, 2023, Plaintiff served 56 requests for production, 5 of which are
at issue here. (Liu Decl., Ex. 7).
 
On
the same day, Plaintiff propounded discovery requests, Plaintiff sent a
meet-and-confer letter regarding Electronically Stored Information (“ESI”).
 
GM
served Plaintiff with full and complete responses to Plaintiff’s Requests for
Production on October 25, 2023. (Liu Decl., Ex. 8 and ¶ 19.)
 
On
November 9, 2023, Plaintiff sent a letter to GM regarding GM’s discovery
responses with objections. (Liu Decl., Ex. 11.) On December 8, 2023, Defendant
responded to Plaintiff’s letter. 
 
On
December 11, 2023, Plaintiff executed the protective order. (Liu Decl., Ex.
16.) On December 12, 2023, GM provided additional materials. 
 
On
December 18, 2023, Plaintiff emailed GM regarding GM’s supplemental document
production. (Kowalski Decl., Ex. L).
 
On
January 8, 2024, Plaintiff filed the present Motion to Compel. 
 
On
January 23, 2024, Plaintiff filed a Request for an Informal Discovery
Conference (“IDC”).
 
On
February 22, 2024, the Court denied Plaintiff’s Request for an IDC and
requested Plaintiff resubmit an amended request.
 
On
February 29, 2024, Plaintiff filed an Amended Request for IDC.
 
On
March 6, 2024, the Court denied the Amended Request for an IDC, determining an
IDC was not required, and authorized Plaintiff “to file motions to compel and
request sanctions.”
 
On
March 14, 2024, Defendant filed its opposition. 
 
On
March 18, 2024, Plaintiff filed his reply. 
 
            Party’s Request
 
Evidentiary
Objections 
 
Plaintiff
Luis Silva’s submitted evidentiary objections, however the formatting did not
comply with Rule 3.1354. Therefore, the Court will not rule on them. 
 
Legal Standard
 
A
propounding party may move for an order compelling further responses to
interrogatories if the responding party produced an evasive or incomplete
answer or a meritless or overly general objection in response to an
interrogatory.  (Code Civ. Proc., §
2030.300(a).)  A motion to compel further
responses to interrogatories lies where the party to whom the interrogatories
were directed gave responses deemed improper by the propounding party; e.g.,
objections, or evasive or incomplete answers. 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.300.) 
The moving party must also include reasons why further answers should be
ordered: legal or factual arguments why the answers given were incomplete or
nonresponsive, or the objections invalid. 
(California Rules of Court, rule 3.1020(c).)  “The statement of reasons is required to help
the judge prepare for the hearing.  But
this does not change the burden of persuasion at the hearing-i.e, the
responding party still has the burden of justifying at the hearing each
objection raised to discovery.”  (Weil
& Brown, Cal. Prac. Guide: Civil Pro.
Before Trial (The Rutter Group 2011) ¶ 8:1157, 8:1179.)  
 
A
motion to compel further responses to requests for production “shall set forth
specific facts showing good cause justifying the discovery sought by the
inspection demand.”  (Code Civ. Proc. §
2031.310(b)(1).)  “To establish ‘good
cause,’ the burden is on the moving party to show both: [¶] Relevance to the subject matter (e.g.,
how the information in the documents would tend to prove or disprove some issue
in the case); and [¶] Specific facts justifying discovery
(e.g., why such information is necessary for trial preparation or to prevent
surprise at trial.) [Citations.] [¶] The fact that there is no alternative source for the
information sought is an important factor in establishing ‘good cause’ for
inspection.  But it is not essential in every case.”  (Weil & Brown, Civ. Pro. Before Trial,
Discovery (The Rutter Group 2014) ¶ 8:1495.6.)  “For discovery purposes, information is
relevant if it ‘might reasonably assist a party in evaluating the case,
preparing for trial, or facilitating settlement.’ [Citation]  Admissibility is not the test and
information, unless privileged, is discoverable if it might reasonably lead to
admissible evidence. [Citation]  These
rules are applied liberally in favor of discovery.”  (Gonzales v. Superior Court (1995) 33
Cal.App.4th 1539, 1546.) 
 
Discussion 
 
Meet and Confer 
 
Before
bringing a motion to compel further responses to any discovery request, the
moving party is required to make efforts to meet and confer in good faith and
must submit a declaration attesting to those efforts. (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 2031.310(b)(2),
2030.300(b), 2033.290(b).)  “A meet and
confer declaration in support of a motion shall state facts showing a
reasonable and good faith attempt at an informal resolution of each issue
presented by the motion.”  (Code Civ.
Proc. § 2016.040.)  
 
Here,
Plaintiff contends that he engaged in multiple meet and confers with Defendant.
(Liu Decl. ¶¶ 20-30; Kay Decl. ¶ 4,6.) Further, his IDC was denied by the Court
and he was allowed to file without it. (Supplemental Liu Decl. ¶ 7.) Defendant
argues that Plaintiff did not meet and confer because the letters were not in
good faith. However, a discovery motion should not be denied automatically
based upon the reason that the moving parties failed to meet and confer in good
faith.  (See Obregon v. Sup. Ct.
(1998) 67 Cal.App.4th 424, 434.)
 
Motion to Compel Further
Responses to Requests for Production of Documents
 
Request for Production Nos.
16, 20, 21
 
No.
16: All DOCUMENTS, including but not limited to electronically stored
information and electronic mails, concerning any internal analysis or
investigation by YOU or on YOUR behalf regarding TRANSMISSION DEFECT in
vehicles of the same year, make, and model as the SUBJECT VEHICLE. [This
request shall be interpreted to include, but not be limited to, any such
investigation to determine the root cause of such TRANSMISSION DEFECT, any such
investigation to design a permanent repair procedure for such TRANSMISSION
DEFECT, any such investigation into the failure rates of parts associated with
such TRANSMISSION DEFECT, any cost analysis for implementing a proposed repair
procedure, any savings analysis not implementing proposed repair procedures,
etc.]
 
No.
20: All DOCUMENTS, including but not limited to electronically stored
information and electronic mails, concerning failure rates of vehicles of the
same year, make, and model as the SUBJECT VEHICLE as a result of TRANSMISSION
DEFECT.
 
No.
21: All DOCUMENTS, including but not limited to electronically stored
information and electronic mails, concerning or relating to any fixes for the
TRANSMISSION DEFECT in vehicles of the same year, make, and model as the
SUBJECT VEHICLE.
 
            Here, Plaintiff argues that the requested discovery will
show that Defendant was aware of the TRANSMISSION DEFECT through internal
analysis and investigation. Moreover, it will also show that Defendant knew
that it lacked any fix for the defect but failed to repurchase the Subject
Vehicle. Defendant argues that these requests are largely irrelevant and
overbroad, seeking information that has no bearing on Plaintiff’s individual
complaints about the Subject Vehicle. Defendant further argues that Plaintiff has asserted breach of warranty claims, not
product liability claims. The Court agrees that this request is too broad. Neverthless,
GM  has already supplemented its
production — pursuant to the Protective Order — to produce other customer
complaints within GM’s ESI database that are substantially similar to
Plaintiff’s complaint(s) concerning the alleged “TRANSMISSION DEFECT”–
referenced in Plaintiff’s Requests – for vehicles purchased in California of
the same year, make, and model as the Subject Vehicle. (Declaration of Ryan Kay
(“Kay Decl.”), ¶ 9; Declaration of Joseph Liu (“Liu Decl.”), Ex. 17.) The Court
finds these additional production to be adequate. 
 
            Therefore, the Court DENIES these requests.  
 
Request for Production No.
19
 
All
DOCUMENTS, including but not limited to electronically stored information and
electronic mails, concerning customer complaints, claims, reported failures,
and warranty claims related to TRANSMISSION DEFECT, including but not limited
to any databases in YOUR possession with information from dealers, service
departments, parts departments, or warranty departments, and all documents
concerning YOUR response to each complaint, claim or reported failure.
 
            Here, Plaintiff reiterates his same argument as above.
Defendant argues that it has already appropriately provided documents
responsive to these requests, and these requests plainly go well beyond the
narrow scope of the claims and defenses pending in this individual breach of
warranty case. 
 
For
the same reasons mentioned above, the Court DENIES this request. 
 
Request for Production No.
32
 
All
DOCUMENTS relied upon by YOU in support of YOUR contention that YOU were under
no obligation to promptly replace or repurchase the SUBJECT VEHICLE.
 
Here,
Defendant argues that this request is overbroad on its face because it asks for
ALL DOCUMENTS without limitation. Moreover, GM already supplemented its
production, subject to the protective order entered by this Court, to include
its Warranty Policy and Procedure Manual and its policies and procedures used
to evaluate lemon law claims and repurchase requests made under the
Song-Beverly Warranty Act during the relevant time period, as well as the
service manual for the Subject Vehicle. (See Liu Decl., Ex. 17.) Plaintiff
argues that these responses are insufficient. However, the Court disagrees. The
request is overbroad and the documents presented by Defendant are properly
answer Plaintiff’s discovery request. 
 
            Therefore, the Court DENIES this request.  
 
 Defendant’s Objection – Trade Secret 
 
The
party claiming a trade secret privilege has the burden of establishing its
existence.  (Bridgestone/Firestone, Inc. v. Superior Court (1992) 7
Cal.App.4th 1384, 1393.) The propounding party must then make a showing that
the discovery sought is relevant and necessary to proving or defending against
an element of one or more causes of action in the case and that it is
reasonably essential to resolving the lawsuit. (Ibid.) Upon this
showing, it is up to the holder of the privilege to show that a protective
order would be inadequate. (Ibid.) (emphasis added.)  
 
Defendant
contends that Plaintiff’s Request targets confidential, proprietary, and
commercially sensitive trade secrets and other protected information, asserting
it would suffer competitive harm. In support, Defendant provides that it has
“[d]ocuments with details about engineering, warranty, and root cause analyses,
engineering and manufacturing specifications and testing, component or product
improvement, and costs and financial forecasts are often discussed in internal
communications, meeting notices and minutes, and presentation materials.”
Therefore, Defendant met its burden that a trade secret exists. Nevertheless,
Defendant did not show that a protective order would be inadequate, therefore,
the Court finds a protective order may alleviate any of Defendant’s concerns. 
 
            Accordingly, the Court DENIES these requests. 
 
 
Dated:  March 27, 2024
                                                                                                                                                
Hon. Jon R. Takasugi
Judge of the Superior Court
 
 
Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must
send an email to the court at smcdept17@lacourt.org
by 4 p.m. the day prior as directed by the instructions provided on the court
website at www.lacourt.org.  If a party submits
on the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must
identify the party submitting on the tentative. 
If all parties to a motion submit, the court will adopt this
tentative as the final order.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  For more information, please contact the court clerk at (213)
633-0517. 
 