 Case Number:  23STCV13771    Hearing Date:   March 27, 2024    Dept:  17 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
 
DEPARTMENT 17
 



LWL CO., INC., a California Corporation
  
                               Plaintiff, 
         vs.
 
FORD MOTOR COMPANY, A Delaware Corporation; and DOES
  1 through 20, inclusive,  
 
                               Defendants. 


 Case
  No.:   23STCV13771
 
 
 
 Hearing Date: March 27th, 2024




 
            Plaintiff’s Motion to Compel Further Responses to
Request for Production of Documents is GRANTED in part and DENIED in part.
The Motion is granted as to RPD Nos. 9, 17, 27, 37-60, and 70. The Motion is
denied as to RPD Nos. 1, 14, 15, and 16.
             
Background - 
 
Procedural History
            On June 14, 2023, LWL Co., Inc., (Plaintiff) filed a
Complaint against Ford Motor Company (Defendant) for two causes of action: (1)
Breach of Implied Warranty of Merchantability under the Song-Beverly Act and
(2) Breach of Express Warranty under the Song-Beverly Act. After Plaintiff
propounded Requests for Production on October 2, 2023, responses were received
on November 17, 2023. (Declaration of David N. Barry, ¶¶ 3-6.) After meet and
confer efforts failed, Plaintiff filed the motion now before the Court,
Plaintiff’s Motion to Compel Further Responses to Request for Production of
Documents Nos. 1, 9, 14-17, 27, 37-60, & 70 (the Motion). Defendant opposes
the Motion, and Plaintiff files a reply.   
 
Factual Background
            On July 10, 2022, Plaintiff purchased a 2022 Ford F-150
(the Subject Vehicle) which was a new motor vehicle under the Song-Beverly
Warranty Act (the Act). (Complaint, ¶¶ 6-7.) The purchase was accompanied by
written and implied warranties. (Id.) After purchase, Plaintiff alleges
that the Subject Vehicle began to show defects and nonconformities such as (a)
paint chipping, (b) the illumination of the “Check Engine” warning light, (c) a
damaged windshield, (d) recalls, and (e) the illumination of the “Wrench” warning
light. 
 
            Plaintiff alleges that they took the Subject Vehicle to
the Defendant’s authorized repair facilities on at least two occasions, but
that Defendant failed conform the Subject Vehicle to warranty. Plaintiff then filed
suit.   
 
Discussion -
 
Legal Standard
            The propounding party may bring motions to compel further
responses to interrogatories or requests for production if it believes (1) the
responses received are evasive, or (2) incomplete, or (3) if the objections
raised are meritless or too general. (Code Civ. Proc. §§ 2030.300(a),
2031.310(a).) A respondent has the burden to justify objections in response to
a motion filed to compel further responses. (Fairmont Ins. Co. v. Superior
Court (2000) 22 Cal.4th 245, 255.)   
 
Analysis
            Plaintiff argues that the responses to the Requests for
Production (RPDs) by Defendant are a mix of non-code compliant responses, and
unmeritorious objections. Defendant contends that not only are their responses
code-compliant, but they also responded in full to Plaintiff’s requests and
only objected based on meritorious grounds. For reasons explained below, the
Court grants the Motion in part, and denies the Motion in part. 
            
a)     
Request for
Production No. 1
            RPD No. 1 requests all repair orders pertaining to the
Subject Vehicle. Here, the Motion is denied because Defendant represents that
they have already responded. Plaintiff mischaracterizes Defendant’s response
arguing that “Defendant responded to this Request stating that it will only
comply in part.” (Plaintiff’s Separate Statement, 6:18-19.) Plaintiff
continues arguing that “Defendant, as the responding party, must explain the
ground for any objection and identify ‘with particularity’ the documents or
things that will be withheld…” (Id. at 6:20-22.) First, Defendant responded
that they would comply with this request in whole by producing service
and repair records for the Subject Vehicle. (Id. at 5:17-18.) And
second, the response did not contain an objection. Plaintiff fails to identify
what must be further produced. Accordingly, the Motion is denied as to RPD No.
1.
 
b)    
Request for
Production No. 9
            RPD No. 9 requests all recall documents relating to the
Subject Vehicle, including technical service bulletins (TSBs). Although
Defendant complies, Defendant describes their own compliance as partial.
However, Defendant does supply Plaintiff with TSBs, General Service Bulletins
(GSBs), and Special Service Messages, (SSMs). (Plaintiff’s Separate Statement,
8:23-25.) The parties contentions surround Defendant’s objection, which argues
that the RPD is overly broad and fails to provide reasonable particularity. The
Court disagrees. RPD No. 9 reads as follows: All recall DOCUMENTS
regarding, pertaining, or relating to the SUBJECT VEHICLE, including but not
limited to, service bulletins and/or technical service bulletins.” (emphasis
added) Defendant does not explain how supplying TSBs, GSBs, and SSMs fulfills
this request. Although the TSBs, GSBs, and SSMs are relevant to the request,
the request was specific to documents pertaining to recalls, which are voluntarily
issued with the purpose to inform customers to return their vehicles to their
dealerships. Additionally, “recall documents” is sufficiently particular to
place Defendant on notice as to what documents Plaintiff is seeking with this
request. Defendant fails to make clear their legal grounds for their partial
compliance which specifically omitted recalls. Defendant also failed to specify
why this part of the request was not complied with in violation of CCP §
2031.210(a)(2). Therefore, the Motion is granted as to RPD No. 9.
 
c)     
Request for
Production Nos. 14-17
            RPD Nos. 14-17 all request communications: 14 requests
communications regarding the Subject Vehicle, 15 requests communications
between Plaintiff and Defendant, 16 requests communications between Defendant
and independent dealers, and 17 requests manuals and publications.   
 
            Defendant complies in part with RPD No. 14, providing
communications between its dealers, Field Service Action history for the Subject
Vehicle, claim history, and service and repair records. Beyond this, Defendant
objects as the request is overly broad, and the Court agrees. Requesting
communications with the only parameter being that the communications surround
the Subject Vehicle fails to be reasonably specific. Therefore, the Motion is
denied as to RPD No. 14. 
 
            Similarly, Defendant complies in part with RPD No. 15,
but objects as to the request being unduly burdensome. Although the Court
disagrees, it will deny the Motion as to RPD No. 15 as many if not all of these
communications are equally accessible by Plaintiff. 
 
            Defendant complies with RPD No. 16 in part, supplying the
same documents as it does in RPD No. 14, but arguing that any further
compliance is unduly burdensome because per Herremans v. BMW of N. Am., LLC,
2014 U.S. Dist. LEXIS 145957, "The relationship between automobile
manufacturers and their dealers has been examined by a host of courts
throughout the country, all of which have agreed that dealers are not 'agents'
of manufacturers". Defendant argues that independent dealers are their own
legal entities, and that Defendant may not have knowledge of every repair,
report, nor communication made by the independent dealer. The Court agrees and
denies the Motion as to RPD No. 16.
 
            Defendant states they comply with RPD No. 17 in part;
however, the Warranty Policy and Procedure Manual was withheld despite a
protective order and agreement that Defendant would produce it. (Plaintiff’s
Separate Statement, 22:1-4.) Defendant contends that Plaintiff must show good
cause for this discovery. Plaintiff has done so. A Warranty Policy and
Procedure Manual is highly likely to contain details about the warranty, how it
functions, and the procedures in utilizing the warranty, as well as its limits.
Plaintiff cites Lipton v. Superior Court (1996) 48 Cal.App.4th
1599, 1611 in arguing that for discovery purposes information is relevant if it
might reasonably assist a party in evaluating the case. In a suit for violation
of the Act, the Warranty Policy and Procedure Manual falls squarely within this
definition. The Motion is granted as to RPD No. 17.
 
d)    
Request for
Production No. 27
            Defendant refuses to comply with RPD No. 27 and objects
on the basis that the requests is overly broad and that the documents may not
be within Defendant’s Possession. The Court disagrees and finds these objections
meritless. RPD No. 27 requests all documents related to any damage sustained by
the Subject Vehicle prior to its sale to Plaintiff. The Subject Vehicle is a
new 2022 Ford F-150, purchased on July 10, 2022. It is highly likely that if
the Subject Vehicle suffered any damage as a new vehicle, Defendant would have
been aware of it, as Plaintiff was the first and only purchaser. Defendant in
an attempt to respond to this RPD then provided a pre-delivery service record
for a 2020 Ford F-150, but this is not the Subject Vehicle Plaintiff purchased.
Moreover, Defendant fails to explain how such a report is outside of
Defendant’s possession nor how this specific request is overly broad. The
Motion is granted as to RPD No. 27.   
 
e)     
Request for
Production Nos. 37-60
            RPD Nos. 37-60 all request documents regarding customer
complaints for vehicles of the same year, make and model as the Subject Vehicle
relating to the same issues the Plaintiff experienced. Defendant objects
arguing that not only is the request overly broad, but that the experiences of
other customers lack relevance to Plaintiff’s allegations, and is contrary to Calcor
Space Facility, Inc. v. Superior Court (1997) 53 Cal.App.4th 216
(“Calcor”). The Court disagrees. 
 
            First, Calcor is inapplicable here. In Calcor,
the plaintiff served a motion to compel on a nonparty requesting broad
categories of documents and other materials without identifying specific
documents. Additionally, the plaintiff included almost three pages of
definitions and another three pages of instructions, the Court denied the
motion. (Calcor Space Facility, supra at 216). The definitions and
instructions here take up one page. The deficiencies present in Calcor
are absent here. 
 
            Second, with regard to the relevance of other customer
complaints to Plaintiff’s allegations, Doppes
v. Bentley Motors, Inc. (2009) 174 Cal.App.4th 967 (“Doppes”)
is instructive. In Doppes a customer brought an action against an
automobile manufacturer for a violation of the Act. The plaintiff there
requested several documents, including customer complaints of an unpleasant
odor. (Doppes, supra, at 973.) The auto manufacturer refused to
bring any documents concerning customer complaints of the odor. (Id.) In
response the plaintiff filed a motion to compel further, and the Doppes Court
granted the motion and ordered the auto manufacturer to produce the requested
documents. (Id. at 973-974.) The similarities to the instant case are clear.
The customer complaints regarding the odor in Doppes related to the
specific subject vehicle at issue, they were additionally relevant as to
whether the issue had arisen in other vehicles and relevant as to how the auto
manufacturer handled the issues. Documents related to issues with vehicles not
belonging to the Plaintiff, but are of the same year, make, and model hold
relevance. Therefore, the Motion is granted as to RPD Nos. 37-60.    
 
f)     
Request for
Production No. 70
            RPD No. 70 requests any documents related to Defendant’s
investigation into whether Plaintiff’s vehicle should be repurchased or
replaced. Defendant objects, arguing (1) that Plaintiff did not contact
Defendant with a request to repurchase the Subject Vehicle, and (2) that any
documents seeking this information post-date the filing of Plaintiff’s
complaint and fall under attorney-client privilege and attorney work-product
privilege. The Court disagrees. 
 
            With regard to Plaintiff’s supposed requirement that they
make a request to have Defendant repurchase the Subject Vehicle, this is a
misunderstanding of obligations under the Act. Nowhere in the Act is there an
obligation that the consumer contact the manufacturer to repurchase the Subject
Vehicle. “Rather, the Act creates an affirmative duty upon the manufacturer or
its representative to provide restitution or replacement when a covered defect,
i.e. a “nonconformity”, is not repaired after a reasonable number of attempts.”
(Krotin v. Porsche Cars North America, Inc. (1995) 38 Cal.App.4th
294, 302, internal citation removed.) 
 
            With regard to Defendant’s claim that the documents fall
under attorney-client privilege and attorney work-product privilege, Defendant
failed to provide a privilege log pursuant to CCP § 2031.240(c)(1). Therefore,
the Motion is granted as to RPD No. 70.      
 
Conclusion -  
 
            Accordingly, Plaintiff’s Motion to Compel Further
Responses to Request for Production of Documents is GRANTED in part and
DENIED in part. The Motion is granted as to RPD Nos. 9, 17, 27, 37-60, and
70. The Motion is denied as to RPD Nos. 1, 14, 15, and 16.
 
 
Dated:  March 27, 2024
                                                                                                                                                
Hon. Jon R. Takasugi
Judge of the Superior Court
 
 
 
Parties who intend to submit on
this tentative must send an email to the court at smcdept17@lacourt.org
by 4 p.m. the day prior as directed by the instructions provided on the court
website at www.lacourt.org. 
If a party submits on the tentative, the party’s email must include the case
number and must identify the party submitting on the tentative.  If all parties to a motion
submit, the court will adopt this tentative as the final order.  If the department does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on the tentative and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed off calendar.  For more information,
please contact the court clerk at (213) 633-0517. 
 