  Case Number:  23TRCV01102    Hearing Date:   January 23, 2024    Dept:  M 
LOS ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT – SOUTHWEST DISTRICT
 




 
Honorable Gary Y. Tanaka                                                                                     Tuesday, January 23, 2024
Department M                                                                                                                            Calendar No. 7  



 
 
 
 
 
 
PROCEEDINGS
 
Lawrence
Kaufman v. Cloudbreak Communities, et al. 

23TRCV01102
1.      Westside Residence Hall, Inc.’s Demurrer to Complaint
2.     
Westside
Residence Hall, Inc.’s Motion to Strike Portions of Complaint   
 
 
TENTATIVE RULING

Westside Residence Hall, Inc.’s Demurrer to Complaint
is sustained without leave to amend, in part, sustained with 20 days leave to
amend, in part, and overruled, in part. 
 
Westside Residence Hall, Inc.’s Motion to Strike
Portions of Complaint is denied, in part, granted with 20 days leave to amend,
in part, and moot, in part.
 
Background
 
Plaintiff’s Complaint was filed on April 10, 2023.
Plaintiff alleges the following facts. Plaintiff is a tenant of a property
located at 733 S. Hindry Ave., Unit 512-B, Inglewood, CA 90301. The property
suffers from numerous habitability problems including toxic mold and vermin
that has caused injuries to Plaintiff. Plaintiff alleges the following causes
of action: 1. Breach of Warranty of Habitability (Violation of Civil Code §
1941.1) 2. Breach of Warranty of Habitability (Health & Safety Code §
17920.3) 3. Breach of Warranty of Habitability (Violation of Civil Code §
1942.4) 4. Negligence - Premises Liability – 5. Nuisance 6. Intentional
Infliction of Emotional Distress 7. Breach of Contract 8. Breach of Covenant of
Quiet Enjoyment 9. Fraud/Deceit/Intentional Misrepresentations of Fact 10.
Housing Discrimination in Violation of Government Code §12921. 
 
            Meet and Confer
             
            Defendant set forth a meet and
confer declaration in sufficient compliance with CCP § 430.41 and CCP §
435.5.  (Decl. Charles F. Nikolenko.) 
 
            Demurrer

A demurrer tests the sufficiency of a
complaint as a matter of law and raises only questions of law. (Schmidt v.
Foundation Health (1995) 35 Cal.App.4th 1702, 1706.)  In testing the sufficiency of the complaint,
the court must assume the truth of (1) the properly pleaded factual
allegations; (2) facts that can be reasonably inferred from those expressly
pleaded; and (3) judicially noticed matters. (Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39
Cal.3d 311, 318.)  The Court may not
consider contentions, deductions, or conclusions of fact or law.  (Moore v. Conliffe (1994) 7 Cal.App.4th
634, 638.) Because a demurrer tests the legal sufficiency of a complaint, the
plaintiff must show that the complaint alleges facts sufficient to establish
every element of each cause of action.  (Rakestraw
v. California Physicians Service (2000) 81 Cal.App.4th 39, 43.)  Where the complaint fails to state facts sufficient
to constitute a cause of action, courts should sustain the demurrer.  (C.C.P., § 430.10(e); Zelig v. County of
Los Angeles (2002) 27 Cal.App.4th 1112, 1126.)
Sufficient facts are the essential facts
of the case "with reasonable precision and with particularity sufficiently
specific to acquaint the defendant with the nature, source, and extent of his
cause of action.”  (Gressley v.
Williams (1961) 193 Cal.App.2d 636, 643-644.)  "Whether the plaintiff will be able to
prove the pleaded facts is irrelevant to ruling upon the demurrer."  (Stevens v. Superior Court (1986) 180
Cal.App.3d 605, 609–610.)  Under Code
Civil Procedure § 430.10(f), a demurrer may also be sustained if a complaint is
“uncertain.”  Uncertainty exists where a
complaint’s factual allegations are so confusing they do not sufficiently
apprise a defendant of the issues it is being asked to meet.  (Williams v. Beechnut Nutrition Corp.
(1986) 185 Cal.App.3d 135, 139, fn. 2.)
Defendant demurs to the second, sixth,
ninth, and tenth causes of action. The demurrer to the second cause of action
is based on the grounds that the cause of action fails to state facts
sufficient to constitute a cause of action. The demurrer to the sixth, ninth,
and tenth causes of action are based on the grounds that the causes of action
are uncertain.
            Second Cause of Action for Breach of Warranty of
Habitability (Health & Safety Code § 17920.3)

            The demurrer to the second cause of
action is sustained without leave to amend. Plaintiff fails to state facts
sufficient to state a cause of action. 
 
“[A] warranty of habitability is implied by law in
residential leases. The elements of a cause of action for breach of the implied
warranty of habitability are the existence of a material defective condition
affecting the premises' habitability, notice to the landlord of the condition
within a reasonable time after the tenant's discovery of the condition, the
landlord was given a reasonable time to correct the deficiency, and resulting
damages. The alleged defective condition must “affect the tenant's apartment or
the common areas which he uses.” Peviani v. Arbors at California Oaks
Property Owner, LLC (2021) 62 Cal.App.5th 874, 891 (internal citations and
quotations omitted).
 
“The lessor of a building intended for the occupation
of human beings must, in the absence of an agreement to the contrary, put it
into a condition fit for such occupation, and repair all subsequent
dilapidations thereof, which render it untenantable, except such as are
mentioned in section nineteen hundred and twenty-nine.” Civ. Code, § 1941.
 
The cause of action is duplicative of the first cause
of action for Breach of the Warranty of Habitability which is based on the same
facts and same alleged violations. In fact, the first cause of action also refers
to Health & Safety Code 17920.3. (Complaint, ¶ 71). Health & Safety
Code § 17920.3 simply lists the conditions required to deem a building as
substandard. There is nothing in the statute which provides for a separate
cause of action or separate remedies.
 
            Therefore, the demurrer to the second
cause of action is sustained without leave to amend.  
 
            Sixth Cause of Action for IIED
 
            Defendant’s demurrer to the sixth
cause of action is sustained with 20 days leave to amend. Plaintiff fails to
state facts sufficient to state a cause of action and the cause of action is
uncertain.
 
“A cause of action for IIED requires proof of: (1)
extreme and outrageous conduct by the defendant with the intention of causing,
or reckless disregard of the probability of causing, emotional distress; (2)
the plaintiff suffered severe emotional distress; and (3) the defendant's
extreme and outrageous conduct was the actual and proximate cause of the severe
emotional distress.” Crouch v. Trinity Christian Center of Santa Ana, Inc.
(2019) 39 Cal.App.5th 995, 1007. 
 
“[I]t is clear that the availability of a remedy for
breach of implied warranty of habitability does not preclude a tenant from
suing his landlord for intentional infliction of mental distress if the
landlord's acts are extreme and outrageous and result in severe mental
distress.” Stoiber v. Honeychuck
(1980) 101 Cal.App.3d 903, 921. “Behavior may be considered outrageous if a
defendant (1) abuses a relation or position which gives him power to damage the
plaintiff's interest; (2) knows the plaintiff is susceptible to injuries
through mental distress; or (3) acts intentionally or unreasonably with the
recognition that the acts are likely to result in illness through mental
distress.” Id.
 
Here, however, Plaintiff has failed to set forth facts
to support the elements of extreme and outrageous conduct, intent or reckless
disregard, and proximate causation. Plaintiff alleges that he discovered
numerous problems with the property including water leaks, mold, and vermin,
and that Defendant failed to remedy the issues. Plaintiff also set forth
numerous health issues that he suffered.  
 
These allegations are not sufficient to show that
Defendant abused a position of power, or, that Defendant knew that Plaintiff
was susceptible to injuries through emotional distress, or, that Defendant
acted intentionally or unreasonably knowing that it would likely cause
emotional distress. Importantly here, there are no facts which show that
Defendant had any knowledge of the Plaintiff’s susceptibility to emotional
distress and that it acted unreasonably knowing that emotional distress would
occur from Defendant’s actions. 
 
Therefore, the demurrer to the sixth cause of action
is sustained with 20 days leave to amend.
 
            Ninth Cause of Action for
Fraud/Deceit/Intentional Misrepresentations of Fact 
 
            Defendant’s demurrer to the ninth
cause of action is overruled. Plaintiff states facts sufficient to state a
cause of action and the cause of action is not uncertain.
 
            “A complaint for fraud must allege
the following elements: (1) a knowingly false representation by the defendant;
(2) an intent to deceive or induce reliance; (3) justifiable reliance by the
plaintiff; and (4) resulting damages.”  Service
by Medallion, Inc. v. Clorox Co. (1996) 44 Cal.App.4th 1807, 1816. “[T]he
elements of an action for fraud and deceit based on a concealment are: (1) the
defendant must have concealed or suppressed a material fact, (2) the defendant
must have been under a duty to disclose the fact to the plaintiff, (3) the
defendant must have intentionally concealed or suppressed the fact with the
intent to defraud the plaintiff, (4) the plaintiff must have been unaware of
the fact and would not have acted as he did if he has known of the concealed or
suppressed fact, and (5) as a result of the concealment or suppression of the
fact, the plaintiff must have sustained damage.” Boschma v. Home Loan
Center, Inc. (2011) 198 Cal.App.4th 230, 248. “Every element of the cause
of action for fraud must be alleged in the proper manner and the facts
constituting the fraud must be alleged with sufficient specificity to allow
defendant to understand fully the nature of the charge made.”  Tarmann v. State Farm Mut. Auto. Ins. Co.
(1991) 2 Cal.App.4th 153, 157. 
Plaintiffs must state facts which “show how, when, where, to whom, and
by what means the representations were tendered.”  Lazar
v. Superior Court (1996) 12 Cal.4th 631, 645.
 
            Plaintiff has sufficiently alleged
specific facts of alleged misrepresentations and concealment of material facts
including alleged misrepresentations that the unit had been cleaned prior to
Plaintiff leasing the property, alleged concealment from other tenants
regarding water intrusion within Plaintiff’s unit, and alleged concealment of
the existence of toxic mold, vermin, and other substandard conditions within
the unit. (Complaint, ¶ 152). 
 
Plaintiff has alleged specific facts to meet the
elements of the cause of action including intent to deceive, justifiable
reliance, and damages. (Complaint, ¶¶ 154-161). In addition, as to the
specificity requirement to plead fraud, that requirement may be relaxed when
Defendant has superior knowledge and/or full knowledge of the facts. Practical
considerations may make specificity of pleadings impractical when the facts are
within a Defendant’s knowledge. Committee on Children's Television v.
General Foods Corp. (1983) 35 Cal.3d 197. 
 
The demurrer to the ninth cause of action is
overruled. 
 
            Tenth Cause of Action for
Housing Discrimination in Violation of Government Code §12921
 
            Defendant’s demurrer to the tenth
cause of action is sustained with 20 days leave to amend. Plaintiff fails to
state facts sufficient to state a cause of action and the cause of action is
uncertain.
 
            Gov. Code, § 12921 states:
            “(a) The opportunity to seek,
obtain, and hold employment without discrimination because of race, religious
creed, color, national origin, ancestry, physical disability, mental
disability, medical condition, genetic information, marital status, sex, gender,
gender identity, gender expression, age, sexual orientation, reproductive
health decisionmaking, or veteran or military status is hereby
recognized as and declared to be a civil right.
(b) The opportunity to seek, obtain, and hold housing
without discrimination because of race, color, religion, sex, gender, gender
identity, gender expression, sexual orientation, marital status, national
origin, ancestry, familial status, source of income, disability, veteran or
military status, genetic information, or any other basis prohibited by Section
51 of the Civil Code is hereby recognized as and declared to be a civil right.”
 
Gov. Code § 12955 proscribes 14 different
discriminatory housing practices, including subdivision (a) which prohibits
"the owner of any housing accommodation to discriminate against or harass
any person because of the race, color, religion, sex, sexual orientation,
marital status, national origin, ancestry, familial status, source of income,
or disability of that person."
 
            Plaintiff apparently attempts to
allege that Defendant discriminated against Plaintiff based on some protected
class. However, Plaintiff does not allege any facts to support what protected
class that he belongs to. Instead, Plaintiff simply alleges in a conclusory
manner that he is protected based on his “age, race, national origin, sex and
physical disabilities.” (Complaint, ¶ 163). However, Plaintiff does not specify
why he should be protected under these classifications and how he belongs to all
these protected classifications. Plaintiff alleges that a manager of Defendant made
disparaging remarks Plaintiff’s age, race, sex and physical disabilities.
(Complaint, ¶ 164). However, Plaintiff does not allege what was specifically
stated and how these remarks rise to the level of housing discrimination under
FEHA. Plaintiff fails to allege facts to show that he was actually
discriminated against due to his age, race, national origin, sex, and
disability. Plaintiff has merely alleged conclusions.
 
            The demurrer to the tenth cause of
action is sustained with 20 days leave to amend. 
 
            Motion
to Strike  
 
The court may, upon a motion, or at any
time in its discretion, and upon terms it deems proper, strike any irrelevant,
false, or improper matter inserted in any pleading.  CCP § 436(a). 
The court may also strike all or any part of any pleading not drawn or
filed in conformity with the laws of this state, a court rule, or an order of
the court.  CCP § 436(b).  The grounds for a motion to strike are that
the pleading has irrelevant, false or improper matter, or has not been drawn or
filed in conformity with laws.  CCP §
436.  The grounds for moving to strike
must appear on the face of the pleading or by way of judicial notice.  CCP § 437.
 
Defendant moves to strike the following
items: 1. Paragraphs 84-86 of the first cause of action; 2. Paragraph 120 of
the fifth cause of action; 3. Paragraph 128 of the fifth cause of action; 4.
Paragraph 150 of the eighth cause of action; 5. Paragraph 161 of the ninth
cause of action; 6. Paragraph 179 of the tenth cause of action; 7. Prayer,
Paragraph 4.
 
As to Item 1, paragraphs 84 and 85, the
motion to strike is denied. Plaintiff alleges that he will seek to recover
attorneys’ fees pursuant to CCP § 1021.5. Code
Civ. Proc., § 1021.5 states, in relevant part: “Upon motion, a court may award
attorneys' fees to a successful party against one or more opposing parties in
any action which has resulted in the enforcement of an important right
affecting the public interest if: (a) a significant benefit, whether pecuniary
or nonpecuniary, has been conferred on the general public or a large class of
persons, (b) the necessity and financial burden of private enforcement, or of
enforcement by one public entity against another public entity, are such as to
make the award appropriate, and (c) such fees should not in the interest of
justice be paid out of the recovery, if any.” It is premature to strike these
allegations as the right to recover attorneys’ fees under this section can be
determined “upon motion” of the successful party.  
 
As to Item 1, paragraph 86, Item 3, and
Item 4, the motion to strike is granted with 20 days leave to amend.
 
 Civ.
Code, § 3294 states, in relevant part:
“(a) In an action for the breach of an
obligation not arising from contract, where it is proven by clear and
convincing evidence that the defendant has been guilty of oppression, fraud, or
malice, the plaintiff, in addition to the actual damages, may recover damages
for the sake of example and by way of punishing the defendant.
(b) An employer shall not be liable for
damages pursuant to subdivision (a), based upon acts of an employee of the
employer, unless the employer had advance knowledge of the unfitness of the
employee and employed him or her with a conscious disregard of the rights or
safety of others or authorized or ratified the wrongful conduct for which the
damages are awarded or was personally guilty of oppression, fraud, or malice.
With respect to a corporate employer, the advance knowledge and conscious
disregard, authorization, ratification or act of oppression, fraud, or malice
must be on the part of an officer, director, or managing agent of the
corporation.”
 
Plaintiff fails to set forth sufficient
specific facts that Defendant acted willfully, maliciously, intentionally,
and/or recklessly to support Plaintiff’s allegations of punitive damages under
these causes of action. 
 
As to Item 2, the motion to strike is
granted with 20 days leave to amend. Plaintiff fails to allege facts to show
that the alleged nuisance is a public nuisance that affected the public at
large.
 
As to Items 5 and 7, the motion to strike
is denied. Plaintiff has sufficiently pled a right to pursue punitive damages
based on the adequately stated fraud cause of action.
 
As to Item 6, the motion is moot upon the
sustaining of the demurrer to the tenth cause of action.
 
Therefore, the motion to strike is denied,
in part, is granted, with 20 days leave to amend, in part, and is moot in part.

 
Defendant is ordered to give notice of
this ruling.