  Case Number:  20STCV11554    Hearing Date:   January 16, 2024    Dept:  26  
 
 
 
 
Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
Department 26
 



 
DCR MORTGAGE 7
  SUB 2, LLC,
 
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
 
north american Title Insurance company; north american title
  company; et
  al.,
  
 
                        Defendants.


 
  Case No.:  20STCV11554
 
  Hearing Date:  January 16, 2024
 
[TENTATIVE] order RE:
DEFENDANTS’ demurrer and motion to
  strike portions of the first amended complaint
 
 



 
Procedural Background
            On March 20, 2020, Plaintiff DCR
Mortgage 7 Sub 2, LLC (“Plaintiff”) filed the instant action against defendants
North American Title Insurance Company (“NATIC”) and
North American Title Company (“NATC”) (jointly “Defendants”).  The complaint asserted eleven causes of
action for (1) Breach of Contract, (2) Negligence, (3) Breach of Fiduciary
Duties, (4) Negligent Misrepresentation, (5) Fraud by Concealment, (6) Breach
of Insurance Contract, (7) Breach of the Implied Covenant of Good Faith and
Fair Dealing, (8) Violation of Penal Code § 496, (9) Reformation of Contract
based on Mistake of Fact, (10) Reformation of Contract based on Mutual Mistake
of Fact, and (11) Reformation of Contract based on Fraud.  On October 7, 2020, the Court sustained
Defendants’ demurrer to the eighth cause of action with ten days leave to
amend.  (Order 10/7/20.)  However, Plaintiff did not file any amended
complaint.  Accordingly, only the first
through fifth causes of action against NATC and the sixth, seventh, and ninth
through eleventh causes of action against NATIC remained.  
            On November 13, 2023, the Court
granted NATIC’s motion for summary adjudication as to the sixth and seventh
causes of action and granted Plaintiff’s motion for leave to file a first
amended complaint to reassert the eighth cause of action.  (Orders 11/13/23.)  On November 20, 2023, the parties stipulated
to the dismissal of the ninth through eleventh causes of action.
            On November 20, 2023, Plaintiff
filed the operative First Amended Complaint (“FAC”) against Defendants.  The FAC asserts six causes of action for (1)
Breach of Contract, (2) Negligence, (3) Breach of Fiduciary Duties, (4)
Negligent Misrepresentation, (5) Fraud by Concealment, and (8) Violation of
Penal Code § 496.  The first five causes
of action are asserted against only Defendant NATC.  The final cause of action for Violation of
Penal Code § 496 is asserted against both Defendants.
            On December 20, 2023, Defendants
filed the instant demurrer and motion to strike portions of the FAC.  On January 3, 2024, Plaintiff filed an
opposition.  On January 10, 2024,
Defendants filed a reply.
 
Allegations of the
Operative Complaint
            The FAC alleges that: 
In
approximately July 2014, the State Bank of India (California) (“Bank”) made a
loan of $1,753,383.00 to Spirit of Women of California, Inc.  (“Borrower”) that was secured by a deed of
trust to real property at 327 W. Belmont Avenue, Fresno, California 93728
(“Subject Property”).  (FAC ¶¶ 2, 3,
14.)  Defendants were to record this deed
of trust pursuant to escrow instructions. 
(FAC ¶ 14.)  The escrow
instructions specified that Defendants were to “only close the escrow for the
Loan if the Bank’s Deed of Trust could be recorded by the Defendants in a ‘1st
position[,]’” such that there is no prior lien or encumbrance active on the
property.  (FAC ¶ 17, Exh. 2.)   
            On “July 31, 2014, Defendants issued
to the Bank a Preliminary Report which fraudulently misrepresented, concealed
and failed to disclose to the Bank that the Property was encumbered by a
Declaration of Restrictive Covenants which had been recorded against the
Property on October 28, 2008.”  (FAC ¶
15.)  Defendants closed escrow on the
Bank’s Loan, creating a lien subordinate to the recorded Declaration of
Restrictive Covenants.  (FAC ¶¶ 18,
25.)  On August 28, 2014, Defendants
issued title insurance “against any loss or damage sustained or incurred by the
Bank and/or its assignees if the Bank’s Deed of Trust were not a valid and
enforceable first priority lien on the Borrower’s Property.” (FAC ¶¶ 20-21,
Exh. 6.)  On August 14, 2017, Bank sold
and assigned the loan to Plaintiff, including the Deed of Trust and the Title
Insurance Policy.  (FAC ¶ 22, Exh.
7.)  The Declaration of Restrictive
Covenants which had been of record since October 26, 2008 rendered the later
filed title to the Subject Property and the Deed of Trust unmarketable and
valueless.  (FAC ¶ 23.)  Plaintiff and Bank did not have knowledge of
the prior encumbrance on the Subject Property. 
(FAC ¶¶ 25-26.)
 
Request for
Judicial Notice
            In
conjunction with the moving papers, Defendants request that the Court take
judicial notice of:
1.    
Minute Order
dated October 31, 2023 in the Instant Action
2.    
Minute Order
dated March 8, 2023 in the Instant Action
3.    
Minute Order
dated November 13, 2023 in the Instant Action
4.    
Declaration of
John Hosack In Support of Plaintiff DCR Mortgage 7 Sub 2, LLC’s Notice of
Motion and Motion for Leave to File an Amendment to DCR’s Complaint and Exhibit
“C” thereto, Red lined version of Proposed Amended Complaint in the Instant
Action
The Court may take judicial notice of
court records and actions of the State.  (See Evid. Code, § 452(c),(d).)  Accordingly, Defendants request for judicial
notice is GRANTED.  However, the Court
does not take judicial notice of the truth of hearsay assertions within the court
records. (See Herrera v. Deutsche Bank National Trust Co. (2011) 196 Cal.App.4th
1366, 1375.)  
 
Legal Standard 
Demurrer
Standard 
A
demurrer can be used only to challenge defects that appear on the face of the
pleading under attack; or from matters outside the pleading that are judicially
noticeable. (Blank v. Kirwan (1985)
39 Cal 3d 311, 318.) No other extrinsic evidence can be considered (i.e., no
“speaking demurrers”). (Ion Equipment Corp. v. Nelson (1980) 110
Cal.App.3d 868, 881.)
A
demurrer for sufficiency tests whether the complaint states a cause of action.
(Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147 Cal. App.
4th 740, 747.)  When considering
demurrers, courts “give the complaint a reasonable interpretation, and read it
in context.”  (Schifando v. City of
Los Angeles (2003) 31 Cal.4th 1074, 1081.)  In a demurrer proceeding, the defects must be
apparent on the face of the pleading or via proper judicial notice.  (Donabedian
v. Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116 Cal. App. 4th 968, 994.)  “A demurrer tests the pleadings alone and not
the evidence or other extrinsic matters. 
Therefore, it lies only where the defects appear on the face of the
pleading or are judicially noticed.”  (SKF
Farms v. Superior Ct. (1984) 153 Cal. App. 3d 902, 905.)  “The only issue involved in a demurrer
hearing is whether the complaint, as it stands, unconnected with extraneous
matters, states a cause of action.”  (Hahn,
supra, 147 Cal.App.4th at 747.) 
 
Motion to Strike
Standard
Motions
to strike are used to reach defects or objections to pleadings that are not
challengeable by demurrer (i.e., words, phrases, prayer for damages,
etc.).  (See CCP §§ 435-437.)  A party
may file a motion to strike in whole or in part within the time allowed to
respond to a pleading.  However, if a
party serves and files a motion to strike without demurring to the complaint,
the time to answer is extended.  (CCP §§
435(b)(1), 435(c).)
A
motion to strike lies only where the pleading has irrelevant, false, or
improper matter, or has not been drawn or filed in conformity with laws.  (CCP § 436.) 
The grounds for moving to strike must appear on the face of the
pleadings or by way of judicial notice. 
(CCP § 437.)
 
Meet and Confer
Requirement 
Code
of Civil Procedure § 430.41, subdivision (a) requires that “[b]efore filing a
demurrer pursuant to this chapter, the demurring party shall meet and confer¿in
person or by telephone¿with the party who filed the pleading that is subject to
demurrer for the purpose of determining whether an agreement can be reached
that would resolve the objections to be raised in the demurrer.” The parties
are to meet and confer at least five days before the date the responsive
pleading is due and if they are unable to meet the demurring party shall be
granted an automatic 30-day extension.  (CCP § 430.41(a)(2).)  The
demurring party must also file and serve a declaration detailing the meet and
confer efforts.  (Id.¿at
(a)(3).)¿ If an amended pleading is filed, the parties must meet and confer
again before a demurrer may be filed to the amended pleading.  (Id.¿at (a).)  There is a similar
meet and confer requirement for motions to strike.  (CCP § 435.5.)
Here, Defendants have fulfilled the meet
and confer requirements.  (Humphrey Decl.
¶¶ 3-6, Exh. A.)
 
Discussion -
Demurrer
            Defendants assert that the final
cause of action for Violation of Penal Code § 496 fails because the FAC fails
to allege any facts establishing a theft. 
The Court agrees.
            Penal Code section 496 provides in
relevant part that “[a]ny person who has been injured by a violation of
subdivision (a) or (b) may bring an action for three times the amount of actual
damages, if any, sustained by the plaintiff, costs of suit, and reasonable
attorney's fees.”  (Pen. Code, § 496(c).)  Subdivision (b) applies only to swap meet
vendors.  Thus, only a violation of
subdivision (a) could potentially apply to the instant action.  Pursuant to Penal Code section 496(a), “[e]very
person who buys or receives any property that has been stolen or that has been
obtained in any manner constituting theft or extortion, knowing the property to
be so stolen or obtained, or who conceals, sells, withholds, or aids in
concealing, selling, or withholding any property from the owner, knowing the
property to be so stolen or obtained, shall be punished by imprisonment in a
county jail for not more than one year, or imprisonment pursuant to subdivision
(h) of Section 1170.”  (Pen. Code, § 496(a).)  
            “Penal Code section 484 describes
acts constituting theft. The first sentence of section 484, subdivision (a)
states: “Every person who shall feloniously steal, take, carry, lead, or drive
away the personal property of another, or who shall fraudulently appropriate
property which has been entrusted to him or her, or who shall knowingly and
designedly, by any false or fraudulent representation or pretense, defraud any
other person of money, labor or real or personal property, or who causes or
procures others to report falsely of his or her wealth or mercantile character
and by thus imposing upon any person, obtains credit and thereby fraudulently
gets or obtains possession of money, or property or obtains the labor or
service of another, is guilty of theft.” (Italics added.)’
[Citations.]”  (Siry Investment, L.P.
v. Farkhondehpour (2022) 13 Cal.5th 333, 349–350.)  Thus, “[a] plaintiff may recover treble
damages and attorney's fees under section 496(c) when property has been
obtained in any manner constituting theft.” 
(Id. at p.361.)
            “To prove theft, a plaintiff must
establish criminal intent on the part of the defendant beyond ‘mere proof of
nonperformance or actual falsity.’ [Citation.] This requirement prevents ‘
“[o]rdinary commercial defaults” ’ from being transformed into a theft.
[Citation.] If misrepresentations or unfulfilled promises ‘are made innocently
or inadvertently, they can no more form the basis for a prosecution for
obtaining property by false pretenses than can an innocent breach of contract.’
[Citation.]”  (Siry Investment, L.P,
supra, 13 Cal.5th at pp.361–362.)
            Here, the FAC alleges in relevant
part that “[Plaintiff] is informed and believes, and based on that information
and belief alleges, that on or before Defendants purportedly closed the escrow
for the Loan, recorded the Deed of Trust, disbursed the money and issued the
Policy, the Defendants knew that the Loan would not be secured by a valid,
enforceable, first priority lien position Deed of Trust on the Borrower’s
Property and therefore Defendants knew that they should not have recorded the
Deed Of Trust and should not have disbursed money.”  (FAC ¶ 92.) 

            “[Plaintiff] is informed and
believes, and based on that information and belief alleges, that the Defendants
by representing that the Bank would receive a valid and enforceable first
priority lien on the Borrower’s Property, purportedly closing the escrow for
the Loan, recording the Bank’s Deed of Trust, disbursing money and issuing the
Policy, all while knowing that the Loan would not be secured by a valid and
enforceable first priority lien position Deed of Trust on the Borrower’s
Property, the Defendants knowingly aided the Borrower in the theft of the money
and thereby aided in concealing and withholding the money from its true owner,
the Bank and now [Plaintiff] by assignment. The Borrower could not have stolen
the money without the Defendants having aided the Borrower by purportedly
closing the escrow for the Loan in violation of the Bank’s Escrow Instructions,
all the while falsely representing to the Bank that Defendants had actually
complied with those Escrow Instructions which resulted in Defendants knowingly
aiding the Borrower in concealing and withholding the money from its true
owner, the Bank and now [Plaintiff] by assignment.”  (FAC ¶ 93.) 

            “[Plaintiff] is informed and
believes, and based on that information and belief alleges, that NATC, acting
as an agent of a disclosed principal, NATIC, in offering to close the escrow,
record the Deed of Trust, disbursing the money and issuing the Policy, all the
while having actual knowledge that the Loan would not be secured by a valid,
enforceable, first priority lien position Deed of Trust on the Borrower’s
Property, aided the Borrower in concealing, stealing and withholding the money
from its true owner. In addition, the recordation of the Deed of Trust,
disbursement of money and the issuance of the Policy constituted a false
representation by Defendants that the Deed Of Trust was secured by a valid,
enforceable, first priority lien position Deed of Trust on the Borrower’s
Property which resulted in the Defendants knowingly aiding the Borrower in
concealing, stealing and withholding the money from its true owner, the Bank
and now [Plaintiff] by assignment.”  (FAC
¶ 94.)  
            “[Plaintiff] is informed and
believes, and based on that information and belief alleges, that the Bank
deposited its Escrow Instructions, Loan documents and Loan proceeds for the
Loan to the Borrower, and that the Bank’s Escrow Instructions required that
upon the close of escrow the Bank was to receive, among other things, a valid
and enforceable first priority lien on the Borrower’s Property. If the Court
should determine that the Bank, on the purported close of escrow, did not
receive a valid and enforceable first priority lien on the Borrower’s Property,
then Defendants, without first having complied with the Bank’s escrow
instructions, had knowingly concealed, obtained and withheld the Bank’s loan
proceeds by false pretenses in violation of Penal Code section 496, subdivision
(c), and [Plaintiff] is entitled to recover from Defendants three times the
amount of [Plaintiff]’s actual damages, its reasonable attorney’s fees and
costs.”  (FAC ¶ 95.)  
These
allegations of the FAC are insufficient to state a violation of Penal Code
section 496(a).  As worded, Penal Code
section 496(a) has two separate provisions for stating a violation.  The first provides that a violation occurs
when a person “buys or receives any property that has been stolen
or that has been obtained in any manner constituting theft or extortion,
knowing the property to be so stolen or obtained …”  (Pen. Code, § 496(a), [italics added].)  As set forth in the allegations above, the property
– the escrow funds of $1,753,383.00 – was not bought, received, or obtained by
Defendants in any manner constituting theft. 
Rather, Plaintiff’s assignor – the Bank – provided Defendant NATC the
loan proceeds to hold in escrow and then closed escrow and distributed the loan
proceeds to the Borrower.  (FAC ¶¶ 2, 16,
18, Exh. 2.)  Nor does Plaintiff claim
that Defendants bought, received, or obtained the loaned funds of $1,753,383.00
in a manner constituting theft.  Rather,
Plaintiff claims that Defendants aided the Borrower in stealing the loan
proceeds and violated the second portion of Penal Code section 496(a).  (FAC ¶¶ 93-94; Opp. at p.15:12-14, [“Such
conduct violates Penal Code § 496 because [Defendants] knowingly aided the
Borrower in the theft of money (‘loan scam’) from the Bank and aided in
concealing and withholding the money from the Bank - and now [Plaintiff] by
assignment.”].)  
            Under the portion of Penal Code
section 496(a) on which Plaintiff relies, a violation occurs when a person “conceals,
sells, withholds, or aids in concealing, selling, or
withholding any
property from the owner, knowing the property to be so stolen or obtained…”  (Pen. Code, § 496(a), [italics added].)  Under this provision of Penal Code section
496(a), a violation can occur when a person aids in concealing, selling, or
withholding property if the property was stolen by another and the person knows
that it was stolen – i.e., that the Borrower obtained the loan proceeds in a
manner constituting theft.  Plaintiff’s
bare allegations implying that Borrower stole the loan proceeds, (see e.g., FAC
¶¶ 93-94), are a mere conclusion of law and must be disregarded.  (Wexler v. California Fair Plan
Association (2021) 63 Cal.App.5th 55, 70 [“We disregard legal conclusions
in a complaint; they are just a lawyer's arguments.”].)  Disregarding these implied allegations that
Borrower stole the loan proceeds, there are no factual allegations to support
the claim that the Borrower obtained the loan proceeds in a manner constituting
theft.
            As the Supreme Court has explained,
“[t]o prove theft, a plaintiff must establish criminal intent on the part of
the defendant beyond ‘mere proof of nonperformance or actual falsity.’
[Citation.]”  (Siry Investment, L.P.,
supra, 13 Cal.5th at pp.361–362.)  At
a minimum, Plaintiff must allege such criminal intent on the part of the
borrower at the time of the transaction – in approximately 2014.  However, Plaintiff fails to do so.  In California, fraud, including negligent
misrepresentation, must be pleaded with specificity.  (Small v. Fritz Companies, Inc. (2003)
30 Cal.4th 167, 184.)  “The particularity
demands that a plaintiff plead facts which show how, when, where, to whom, and
by what means the representations were tendered.”  (Cansino v. Bank of America (2014) 224
Cal.App.4th 1462, 1469.)  Here, the allegations
of the FAC are woefully inadequate to plead fraudulent intent on the part of Borrower.  In fact, the FAC is silent as to Borrower’s
intent at the time the loan was obtained in 2014.  There is no allegation whatsoever that Borrower
obtained the loan proceeds in a manner constituting theft under Penal Code
section 484.  The FAC is vague – perhaps deliberately
so – as to when Borrower defaulted on the refinanced loan.  Instead, the FAC merely alleges that “[t]he
Borrower failed to make the Note payments which were owed to DCR” without
specifying when this default occurred.  (FAC
¶ 29.)  The only related allegations is
that “[a]ccordingly, on or about April 16, 2019, DCR recorded a Notice of
Default and Election to Sell under the Deed of Trust.”  (FAC ¶ 29.) 
The fact that DCR did not record the notice of default until 2019 –
approximately five years after the funding of the loan in 2014 – strongly suggests
that the Borrower made payments on the loan up to a date shortly before 2019,
and the fact that Borrower made payments for this period after obtaining the loan
in turn suggests a lack of criminal intent on the Borrower’s part when it
obtained the loan in 2014.  In any event,
in the absence of any allegation that Borrower had fraudulent intent at the time
it obtained the loan in 2014 precludes a finding that Borrower stole the loan
proceeds, and Defendants could not have aided Borrower in concealing, selling,
or withholding knowing they were stolen by Borrower if the loan proceeds were
not stolen by Borrower.  Nor is there any
allegation that Borrower concealed, sold, or withheld the loan proceeds from
the Bank or Plaintiff after the assignment of the loan.  
Thus, Plaintiff
fails to set forth how Defendants could have aided Borrower in concealing,
selling, or withholding stolen property.
            Accordingly, Defendants demurrer to
the eighth cause of action is SUSTAINED.
 
Discussion –
Motion to Strike
            Defendants move to strike (1) the
claim for treble damages under Penal Code section 496, (2) the allegations and
prayer for punitive damages, (3) the allegations relating to Does 1-50, and (3)
the allegations regarding Doma Title Insurance, Inc.
            For the reasons discussed above, the
claim for treble damages under Penal Code section 496 fails because Plaintiff’s
claim for violation of Penal Code section 496 fails.  The allegations and prayer for Punitive
Damages must be stricken as the Court has previously granted summary
adjudication of Plaintiff’s claim for punitive damages on the basis that such a
claim cannot be assigned.  (RJN Exh. 2,
[Minute Order 10/31/23].)  
As to
Doe defendants, all Does were dismissed on March 8, 2023.  (RJN 3, [Minute Order 3/8/23].)  Moreover, no Does may be added at this late juncture.  Pursuant
to Code of Civil Procedure section 583.210, “(a) [t]he summons and complaint
shall be served upon a defendant within three years after the action is
commenced against the defendant. For the purpose of this subdivision, an
action is commenced at the time the complaint is filed. [¶](b) Proof of service
of the summons shall be filed within 60 days after the time the summons and
complaint must be served upon a defendant.” (CCP § 583.210(a).)  Accordingly, a plaintiff has 3 years and 60
days to filed proof of service of summons from the date of filing the
complaint.  (Biss v. Bohr (1995)
40 Cal.App.4th 1246, 1251.)  However,
“[b]ecause the summons and complaint must be ‘served’ within three years, an
answer will excuse the failure to do so only if it is filed within that period.
[Citations.] Similarly, because the summons must be returned within 3 years, 60
days, an answer during that period likewise excuses compliance.”  (Ibid.)  Moreover, Doe defendants must also be served
within this three year and 60 day deadline. (Higgins v. Superior Court (2017)
15 Cal.App.5th 973, 982 [“even where the filing of an amended complaint on a
Doe defendant relates back to the filing of an original complaint, the
plaintiff must nonetheless identify and serve a Doe defendant with a summons
and complaint within three years of the commencement of the action.”].) 
Here, Plaintiff filed the instant action on March
20, 2020.  Thus, the three year and sixty
day deadline has passed.  The Doe
allegations are improper.
            Finally, the additional allegations
regarding Doma Title Insurance, Inc. were beyond the scope of leave to amend
granted and thus improper.  (RJN Exhs.
3-4.)  
Accordingly,
Defendants’ unopposed motion to strike is GRANTED.
 
Leave to Amend
Leave to amend
must be allowed where there is a reasonable possibility of successful
amendment. (Goodman v. Kennedy (1976) 18 Cal.3d 335, 348.) The burden is
on the plaintiff to show the court that a pleading can be amended successfully.
(Goodman v. Kennedy, supra, 18 Cal.3d at p.348; Lewis v. YouTube, LLC
(2015) 244 Cal.App.4th 118, 226.)  
            Here, Plaintiff fails to show that
the pleading can be successfully amended. 
As to the claim for Violation of Penal Code section 496, “the general rule
that statutory causes of action must be pleaded with particularity is
applicable.”  (Lopez v. Southern Cal.
Rapid Transit Dist. (1985) 40 Cal.3d 780, 795.)  Here the allegations are merely made on
information and belief with no allegations indicating why Plaintiff would have
any reason to believe these allegations in support of the Penal Code
section 496
to be true.  (See Doe v. City of Los
Angeles (2007) 42 Cal.4th 531, 550; [A “[p]laintiff may allege on
information and belief any matters that are not within his personal knowledge, if
he has information leading him to believe that the allegations are true.”].)  As noted above, there is no allegation
regarding the Borrower’s intent or how the Borrower took the loan proceeds in a
manner constituting theft.  Thus,
Defendants could not know that Borrower had stolen the loan proceeds.  Moreover, the proposed amendments mentioned that
Plaintiff references in opposition merely go to Defendants’ knowledge of the
Bank’s desire for the Deed of Trust to be in the first lien position and
Defendants’ knowledge of the Declaration of Restrictive Covenant.  (Opp. at pp.15:25-16:15.)  However, this knowledge alone is insufficient.  As explained above, Plaintiff must allege not
only that Defendants aided in the Borrower’s unspecified concealing, selling,
or withholding of the loan
proceeds, but also that Defendants had the requisite criminal intent, i.e., that
Defendants knew that Borrower had obtained the Loan Proceeds in a manner
constituting theft.  Thus, there does not
appear to be a reasonable possibility of successful amendment as to the claim
for Violation of Penal Code section 496.
            As to the motion to strike,
Plaintiffs fail to file any opposition or provide any explanation as to how the
issues raised in the motion to strike can be successfully amended.  Accordingly, leave to amend is DENIED. 
            
Conclusion and ORDER
            Based on the
foregoing, Defendant North American Title Insurance Company and North American
Title Company’s demurrer is SUSTAINED WITHOUT LEAVE.
            Defendants’
motion to strike portions of the first amended complaint is GRANTED WITHOUT
LEAVE.
            As no claim
remains against Defendant North American Title Insurance Company, Defendant
North American Title Insurance Company is to file a proposed judgment of
dismissal within five (5) court days of notice of this order.
            Defendant North
American Title Company must file and serve an answer within 20 days. An OSC re filing
of Defendant North American Title Company’s answer is set for February 23, 2024
at 8:30 am.
Moving Parties are to give notice and file
proof of service of such.
 
DATED:  January ___, 2024                                                             ___________________________
Elaine Lu
                                                                                          Judge of the Superior Court