 Case Number:  22STCV38729    Hearing Date:   February 14, 2024    Dept:  56  
 
 
SUPERIOR
COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR
THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



LEOBARDO SEGURA-MEZA, et al.,
                        Plaintiffs,
            vs.
 
AGOURA HILLS MARBLE AND GRANITE, INC., et
  al.,
 
                        Defendants.





     
  CASE NO.:  22STCV38729
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER RE: (1) MOTION TO
  QUASH SERVICE OF SUMMONS; (2) MOTION TO COMPEL DISCOVERY
 
Date: 
  February 14, 2024
Time: 8:30 a.m.
Dept. 56
Judge: Holly J. Fujie
 



AND
RELATED CROSS ACTIONS
 
MOVING
PARTY: Specially Appearing Defendant Cosentino Group, S.A.  (“Moving Defendant”)
            
            RESPONDING PARTY: Plaintiffs
 
            The Court has considered the moving,
opposition and reply papers. 
 
BACKGROUND
            This action arises out of Plaintiffs’
alleged injuries caused by exposure to hazardous materials.  The currently operative second amended
complaint (the “SAC”) filed on November 21, 2023 alleges: (1) negligence; (2)
strict liability – warning defect; (3) strict liability – design defect; (4)
fraudulent concealment; (5) breach of implied warranties; and (6) loss of
consortium.
 
            On October 12, 2023, Moving Defendant filed a motion to
quash service of summons (the “MTQ”). 
The MTQ argues that: (1) Plaintiffs failed to properly serve Moving
Defendant with the previously operative first amended complaint (the “FAC”) and
summons; and (2) even if service had been proper, this Court lacks personal
jurisdiction over Moving Defendant. 
 
On
January 18, 2023, Plaintiffs filed a motion to compel (the “MTC”) that requests
that the Court order Moving Defendant to provide responses to discovery
requests Plaintiffs served that seek information that could lead to the
production of evidence to establish jurisdictional facts. 
 
EVIDENTIARY OBJECTIONS
Plaintiffs’
objections to the Declaration of Jorge Cuervo Vela (“Vela Decl.”) numbers 1-3
are OVERRULED.  Plaintiffs’ objection to
the Vela Declaration number 4 is SUSTAINED.
 
Moving
Defendant’s objections to the Declaration of Raphael Metzger (“Metzger Decl.”)
are SUSTAINED in their entirety. 
 
MOTION TO QUASH SERVICE
OF SUMMONS
Under California Code of Civil Procedure
(“CCP”) section 418.10, a defendant, on or before the last day of their time to
plead or within any further time that the court may for good cause allow, may
serve and file a notice of motion to quash service of summons on the ground of
lack of jurisdiction over them.  (CCP §
418.10, subd. (a)(1).)  A court lacks
jurisdiction over a party if there has not been proper service of process.  (Ruttenberg
v. Ruttenberg (1997) 53 Cal.App.4th 801, 808.)  Compliance with the statutory procedures for
service of process is essential to establish personal jurisdiction.  (Dill
v. Berquist Construction Co. (1994) 24 Cal.App.4th 1426, 1444.)  The filing of a proof of service creates a
rebuttable presumption that the service was proper but only if it complies with
the statutory requirements regarding such proofs.  (Id.
at 1441-42.)  When a defendant moves to
quash service of the summons and complaint, the plaintiff has the burden of
proving the facts that did give the court jurisdiction, that is the facts
requisite to an effective service.  (Coulston v. Cooper (1966) 245 Cal.App.2d
866, 868.)  
 
            Moving Defendant—a Spanish corporation—argues that
Plaintiffs failed to effectuate service within the parameters of the Hague
Service Convention when they attempted to serve one of its managing officers
while he was visiting Canada on September 13, 2023.  (See Declaration of Wendy S. Dowse
(“Dowse Decl.”) ¶ 5, Exhibit 3.)  
 
Hague Service Convention
CCP
section 413.10, subdivision (c) provides, “[e]xcept as otherwise provided by
statute, a summons shall be served on a person: . . . Outside the United
States, as provided in this chapter or as directed by the court in which the
action is pending, or, if the court before or after service finds that the
service is reasonably calculated to give actual notice, as prescribed by the
law of the place where the person is served or as directed by the foreign
authority in response to a letter rogatory.  These rules are subject to the provisions of
the Convention on the “Service Abroad of Judicial and Extrajudicial Documents”
in Civil or Commercial Matters (Hague Service Convention).”  (CCP § 413.10, subd. (c).)  
 
The
Convention states in its Article 2 that each signatory nation must designate a
central authority through which service of process may be effected, and that
authority receives documents and serves them in accordance with either the
internal law of the receiving state or a compatible method requested by the
sender.  (Kott v Superior Court
(1996) 45 Cal.App.4th 1126, 1134.) 
Articles 5 and 6 of the Convention state that the authority then
provides the sender with a certificate of service.  (Id.) 
Under Articles 8 through 11 and Article 18, a state may allow other
methods of service within its boundaries. 
(Id.)  Under Article 21, it
may also object to the use of a particular method of transmission. (Id.)  
 
Failure
to properly serve a party who resides outside the country under the Hague Service
Convention renders all subsequent proceedings void as to that person, even when
the party indisputably had notice of the action.  (In re Alyssa F. (2003) 112
Cal.App.4th 846, 852.)  Failure to comply
with the Hague Service Convention procedures voids the service even though it
was made in compliance with California law. 
(Kott v. Superior Court (1996) 45 Cal.App.4th 1126,
1136.)¿ The only method of service under California law which does not
require the transmission of documents abroad, and consequently does not
implicate the Hague Service Convention, is service of summons by publication
where the party's address remains unknown during the publication period despite
the exercise of reasonable diligence.  (Id.)  In cases governed by the Hague Service
Convention, service by mail is permissible if two conditions are met: first,
the receiving state has not objected to service by mail; and second, service by
mail is authorized under otherwise-applicable law.  (Inversiones Papaluchi S.A.S. v. Superior
Court (2018) 20 Cal.App.5th 1055, 1065-66.) 
The validity of a service method must come from California law.  (Id. at 1066 [referring to service by
Federal Express.])
 
            Plaintiffs argue that service was proper because it
occurred in a territory that participates in the Hague Convention and was in
compliance with the governing service laws of British Columbia.  Plaintiffs also argue that the Hague
Convention does not apply because CCP section 413.10 governs service on persons
rather than individuals.  
 
The
Court is not persuaded by any of these arguments.  First, CCP section 413.10 governs service
generally, and Plaintiffs provide no compelling arguments or citation to
support their interpretation that there are no rules regulating service upon foreign
corporations outside of the United States.[1]  Second, Plaintiffs provide no authority to
support their arguments that a California litigant may properly serve a foreign
entity in a separate foreign country in compliance with the Hague
Convention.  
 
Based
on the foregoing, the Court GRANTS the MTQ.
 
MOTION TO COMPEL
A
plaintiff attempting to assert jurisdiction over a nonresident defendant is
entitled to an opportunity to conduct discovery of the jurisdictional facts
necessary to sustain its burden of proof.  (In re Automobile Antitrust Cases I &
II (2005) 135 Cal.App.4th 100.)  In
order to prevail on a motion for a continuance for jurisdictional discovery,
the plaintiff should demonstrate that discovery is likely to lead to the
production of evidence of facts establishing jurisdiction.  (Id.) 

 
Plaintiffs
have already attempted to have Moving Defendant submit to various discovery
requests that bear on jurisdictional issues without first seeking leave of court
to do so.  To the extent that the MTC
seeks leave to conduct jurisdictional discovery, the Court finds that there is
no basis to allow discovery in the absence of valid service of the summons.  (See, e.g., CCP § 2025.210.)  The Court therefore DENIES the MTC.  
 
Moving party
is ordered to give notice of this ruling. 
 
Parties
who intend to submit on this tentative must send an email to the Court at
SMC_DEPT56@lacourt.org as directed by the instructions provided on the court
website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department does not receive an email
and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion will be placed off
calendar. 
 
  Dated
this 14th day of February 2024



  






Hon. Holly J. Fujie 
Judge of the Superior Court 
 





