 Case Number:  22STCV39533    Hearing Date:   December 12, 2023    Dept:  31 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA  FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT  JUSTIN BIGGERS, Plaintiff(s),  vs.  RALPHS GROCERY COMPANY, ET AL.,  Defendant(s). ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) )       CASE NO: 22STCV39533  [TENTATIVE] ORDER DENYING MOTIONS TO COMPEL WITHOUT PREJUDICE  Dept. 31 1:30 p.m.  December 12, 2023  Cross-Defendant American Guard Services, Inc. ("AGS”) aver it propounded (1) form interrogatories, set one, (2) special interrogatories, set one, and (3) request for production of documents (“RPDs”), set one, on Plaintiff Justin Biggers (“Plaintiff”) on August 9, 2023. After not receiving responses, AGS’ counsel had a telephone meet and confer with Plaintiff’s counsel’s paralegal, who stated that they could not locate Plaintiff and are unable to provide responses. Plaintiff has not served responses to date. AGS therefore seeks an order compelling Plaintiff to respond, without objections, to the outstanding discovery. The motions are unopposed.  For a motion to compel initial discovery responses, all a propounding party must show is that it properly served its discovery requests, that the time to respond has expired, and that the party to whom the requests were directed failed to provide a timely response. (See Leach v. Superior Court (1980) 111 Cal.App.3d 902, 905 906.) Where a party fails to serve timely responses to discovery requests, the court may make an order compelling responses. (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 2030.290; 2031.300; Sinaiko Healthcare Consulting, Inc. v. Pacific Healthcare Consultants (2007) 148 Cal.App.4th 390, 403.) A party that fails to serve timely responses waives any objections to the request, including ones based on privilege or the protection of attorney work product. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.290, subd. (a); § 2031.300, subd. (a).)    However, the evidence attached to the motions does not evidence Plaintiff was served with any discovery by AGS. AGS’ Exhibit “A” to the motions to compel form interrogatories, special interrogatories, and are RPDs evidence discovery propounded by “O.C. Special Security Events, Inc.” to “Mauricio Alaniz” on June 28, 2021. None are parties to this action.   Therefore, because there is no evidence Plaintiff was properly served with discovery and failed to respond, AGS motions are DENIED without prejudice.  Moving party is ordered to give notice.    PLEASE TAKE NOTICE: Parties are encouraged to meet and confer after reading this tentative ruling to see if they can reach an agreement. If a party intends to submit on this tentative ruling,¿the party must send an email to the court at¿sscdept31@lacourt.org¿with the Subject line “SUBMIT” followed by the case number.¿ The body of the email must include the hearing date and time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the party submitting.¿¿ Unless¿all¿parties submit by email to this tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or in person for oral argument.¿ You should assume that others may appear at the hearing to argue.¿¿ If the parties neither submit nor appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.¿ After the Court has issued a tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion without leave.¿  Dated this 11th day of December 2023      Hon. Michelle C. Kim Judge of the Superior Court   