 Case Number:  21STCV37579    Hearing Date:   December 12, 2023    Dept:  31 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA  FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT  HERMAN VELASCO, ET AL., Plaintiff(s),  vs.  FIERCE SXS, INC., ET AL.,  Defendant(s). ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) )       CASE NO: 21STCV37579  [TENTATIVE] ORDER GRANTING MOTIONS TO BE RELIEVED AS COUNSEL   Dept. 31 1:30 p.m.  December 12, 2023  Plaintiffs Victoria Velasco, Sheyla Amaya, by and through her guardian ad litem Victoria Velasco, and Mateo Velasco, by and through his guardian ad litem Herman Velasco (“Plaintiffs”) attorney of record, Matthew A. Rochlin of Nora & Rochlin, LLP (“Counsel”), moves to be relieved as counsel contending relief is necessary because of an of a breakdown of the working relationship with Plaintiff Velasco.   Counsel declares he served the moving papers on Plaintiffs via mail at the client’s last known address. Counsel has been unable to confirm the address or locate a more current address after making the efforts of mailing the motion papers, calling the last known telephone number, contacting all numbers on file associated with Plaintiffs, and searching for addresses and phone numbers through various channels. Counsel has attached a proof of service demonstrating service of the motion, declaration, and proposed order on Plaintiffs, Defendant, and Clerk of Court. (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1362(d).)     The motion is unopposed and GRANTED; the ruling is effective upon filing proof of service of the final order. No trial date has been set for this matter. Therefore, there is sufficient time for Plaintiffs to seek other counsel or otherwise prepare prior to trial.  Moving Counsel is ordered to give notice.    PLEASE TAKE NOTICE: Parties are encouraged to meet and confer after reading this tentative ruling to see if they can reach an agreement. If a party intends to submit on this tentative ruling,¿the party must send an email to the court at¿sscdept31@lacourt.org¿with the Subject line “SUBMIT” followed by the case number.¿ The body of the email must include the hearing date and time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the party submitting.¿¿ Unless¿all¿parties submit by email to this tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or in person for oral argument.¿ You should assume that others may appear at the hearing to argue.¿¿ If the parties neither submit nor appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.¿ After the Court has issued a tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion without leave.¿  Dated this 11th day of December 2023      Hon. Michelle C. Kim Judge of the Superior Court    