 Case Number:  21STCV30186    Hearing Date:   December 12, 2023    Dept:  31 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA  FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT  ANNE MCLELLAN, Plaintiff(s),  vs.  TEMPLE CITY, ET AL.,  Defendant(s). ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) )       CASE NO: 21STCV30186  [TENTATIVE] ORDER RE: CROSS-DEFENDANT’S MOTION FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT  Dept. 31 1:30 p.m.  December 12, 2023  I. Background Plaintiff, Anne McLellan filed this action against Defendants, Temple City (“Temple City”), Temple City Parks and Recreation, County of Los Angeles, and State of California for damages arising from a trip and fall on an alleged defective stair while walking on the steps of a jungle gym.  Plaintiff alleges defendants negligently owned and maintained the subject jungle gym located at or near Live Oak Park, 10144 Bogue St., Temple City, CA 91780.    Temple City filed a cross-complaint against Roes 1 to 20 for equitable indemnity/contribution (against Roes 1 through 20), express indemnity (against Roes 15 through 20), and declaratory relief (against Roes 1 to 20). Temple City filed amendments to cross-complaint naming Herald Christian Healthcare Center as Roe 1 and Roe 15.  At this time, Herald Christian Health Center, named and served as Herald Christian Healthcare, (“HCHC”) moves for summary judgment, or in the alternative adjudication, against cross-complainant Temple City.  Temple City opposes the motion, and HCHC filed a reply.   Moving Argument  HCHC argues it is entitled to summary judgment because Plaintiff was supervising a group of volunteer nursing students at a pop-up COVID-19 vaccination clinic put on by HCHC. The clinic took place at Live Oak Park, which was owned, operated, and maintained by Temple City. On the date of the incident, prior to the clinic opening, Plaintiff left the vaccination site to take pictures on nearby playground equipment, and tripped on an allegedly defective step in the playground. HCHC avers that Plaintiff’s injuries did not arise out of HCHC’s use of portions of Live Oak Park within the meaning of the indemnity clause in the Facility Use Agreement (“Agreement”).  The Agreement permitted HCHC to use certain facilities within Live Oak Park during specific times for the purpose of COVID-19 vaccination and related services. HCHC avers the Agreement imposed no obligation on HCHC to maintain or upkeep any portion of Live Oak Park. HCHC argues the mere fact that Plaintiff was present at Live Oak to participate in the vaccination clinic does not trigger the indemnity provision of the Agreement.  Opposing Argument Temple City argues that Plaintiff’s accident was proximately caused by HCHC’s agent Azusa Pacific University’s employees participating in group photographs, and that the indemnity clause does not exclude the playground area where Plaintiff was injured. Temple City contends that it is not claiming that HCHC had an obligation to maintain or repair the jungle gym where Plaintiff fell. Rather, Temple City argues that HCHC’s agent was the proximate cause of Plaintiff’s injuries by inviting Plaintiff to take photographs at the jungle gym, and that HCHC has some maintenance and upkeep responsibilities regarding the Facility under the Agreement.   Reply Argument HCHC sums its arguments that Plaintiff’s injuries did not arise out of HCHC’s use of portions of Live Park within the meaning of the Agreement’s indemnity clause, that no act or omission by HCHC caused or contributed to Plaintiff’s injuries, and that the terms of the Agreement between HCHC and Temple City does not oblige HCHC to indemnity Temple City for this incident. HCHC argues Temple City raises new claims not disclosed in the pleadings or in its discovery responses and makes misleading arguments of what the evidence might show.   II. Motion for Summary Judgment Burdens on Summary Judgment Summary judgment is proper “if all the papers submitted show that there is no triable issue as to any material fact and that the moving party is entitled to judgment as a matter of law.”  (Code Civ. Proc. §437c(c).)  A cross-defendant moving for summary judgment must show “that one or more elements of the cause of action ... cannot be established, or that there is a complete defense to that cause of action.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (p)(2).)  “[T]he initial burden is always on the moving party to make a prima facia showing that there are no triable issues of material fact.”  (Scalf v. D. B. Log Homes, Inc. (2005) 128 Cal.App.4th 1510, 1519.) A defendant moving for summary judgment must show either (1) that one or more elements of the cause of action cannot be established or (2) that there is a complete defense to that cause of action.  (Id. at §437c(p).) On a motion for summary judgment, the moving party's supporting documents are strictly construed and those of his opponent liberally construed, and doubts as to the propriety of summary judgment should be resolved against granting the motion.  (D’Amico v. Board of Medical Examiners (1974) 11 Cal.3d 1, 21.) Once the defendant or cross-defendant has met that burden, the burden shifts to the plaintiff or cross-complainant to show that a triable issue of one or more material facts exists as to the cause of action or a defense thereto. The plaintiff or cross-complainant shall not rely upon the allegations or denials of its pleadings to show that a triable issue of material fact exists but, instead, shall set forth the specific facts showing that a triable issue of material fact exists as to the cause of action or a defense thereto. (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (p)(2).) “If the plaintiff cannot do so, summary judgment should be granted.” (Avivi v. Centro Medico Urgente Medical Center (2008) 159 Cal.App.4th 463, 467.) When ruling on a summary judgment motion, the trial court must consider all inferences from the evidence, even those contradicted by the moving party’s evidence. The motion cannot succeed unless the evidence leaves no room for conflicting inferences as to material facts; the court has no power to weigh one inference against another or against other evidence. (Murillo v. Rite Stuff Food Inc. (1998) 65 Cal. App. 4th 833, 841.) In determining whether the facts give rise to a triable issue of material fact, "the facts alleged in the evidence of the party opposing summary judgment and the reasonable inferences there from must be accepted as true.” (Jackson v. County of Los Angeles (1997) 60 Cal. App. 4th 171, 179.)  Discussion As framed by the cross-complaint, it alleges that Temple City and HCHC entered into a written contract, which contained a provision obligation HCHC to defend and indemnity Temple City from all costs or expenses, liabilities, losses and damages arising out of the performance of the contract. (Cross-Complaint, ¶ 10.) (emphasis added). Temple City alleges conduct by HCHC triggers the defense and indemnification clause between HCHC and Temple City. (Ibid.) In interpreting a settlement agreement, the general rules of contract interpretation are applied.  (Belasco v. Wells (2015) 234 Cal.App.4th 409, 420.)  “The goal of contractual interpretation is to determine and give effect to the mutual intention of the parties.”  (Id.)   The court must first consider the mutual intention of the parties at the time the contract was formed. (Civ. Code, § 1636.)  This initial inquiry is confined to the writing alone.  (Id. § 1639.)  The “clear and explicit” meaning of the provisions, interpreted in their “ordinary and popular sense,” unless “used by the parties in a technical sense or a special meaning is given to them by usage,” (Id. § 1644), controls the court’s interpretation.  (Id. § 1638; see Griffin Dewatering Corp. v. Northern Ins. Co. of New York (2009) 176 Cal.App.4th 172, 204 (plain language is an important principle of contract interpretation).)  Therefore, if the meaning a layperson would give the contract language is not ambiguous, the court applies that meaning.  (Santisas v. Goodin (1998) 17 Cal.4th 599, 608.)  Simultaneously, the court recognizes that “[a] contract may be explained by reference to the circumstances under which it was made, and the matter to which it relates.”  (Civ. Code § 1647.) It is undisputed that Temple City entered into a Facility Use Agreement with HCHC on February 17, 2021.  The indemnity clause of the Agreement provides, in full:  “(a) HCHC INDEMNITY. To the extent allowable by law, HCHC shall indemnify, defend, and hold harmless City and its officers, employees, contractors, agents and volunteers from and against any and all liability, loss, damage, expense, costs (including reasonable attorneys' fees) or claims for injury or property damages to the extent arising out of or in connection with HCHC's acts and/or omissions arising from or related to this Agreement, including use of Facility by HCHC, and HCHC's breach of this Agreement. This provision shall survive the expiration or termination of the Agreement.  (b) CITY INDEMNITY. To the extent allowable by law, City shall indemnify, defend, and hold harmless HCHC, including its officers, employees, contractors, agents and volunteers, against any and all liability, loss, damage, expense, costs (including reasonable attorneys' fees) or claims for injury or property damages to the extent arising out of or in connection with City's acts and/or omissions arising from or related to this Agreement, including City's obligations to maintain the Facility, and City's breach of the Agreement. This provision shall survive the expiration or termination of the Agreement.” (Agreement, Section 4(a) and 4(b).) The Agreement reflects that Herald Christian Health Center was permitted to use certain facilities within Live Oak Park ( “Facility”) during certain specific times for the purpose of COVID-19 vaccination and related services. The Agreement requires (and contains) an “Engagement Order”, which includes, among other things, “the specific Facility location within Live Oak Park… and hours of use of the Facility by Herald Christian Health Center.” The Engagement Order contains a “Facility Site Plan” which identifies the subset of facilities within Live Oak Park to be used by Herald Christian Health Center. The Facility Site Plan delineates where the volunteers/staff are to park and take breaks, as well as where patients are supposed to register, line up, receive the vaccine, and subsequently be observed. The Agreement imposes an obligation on Temple City to furnish services and utilities to the Facility. “The City shall be responsible for… the proper maintenance of the Facility including but not limited to; utilities, including water, gas, and electricity; and, to the extent applicable, janitorial and cleaning services, maintenance of the building exterior, grounds, common areas and parking, trash collection and security.” Similarly, the “City… agrees at its expense to maintain the Facility in good repair.” Additionally, the Agreement obligated Temple City to provide staff to fill non-clinical positions to manage the Facility, security, traffic control, parking management and line control. The Agreement also obligated Temple City to set up barricades, cones, delineators and temporary fencing for traffic and crowd control and to display directional and informational signage. Here, Plaintiff was working for Azusa Pacific University School of Nursing (APU) as an adjunct clinical professor and was responsible for supervising student nurses in a clinical setting. Prior to the clinic opening, Plaintiff and her students left the vaccination site to take pictures on nearby playground equipment. Plaintiff then tripped and fell on the jungle gym, alleging that the defect was the uneven jungle gym steps with improperly raised lip. HCHC contends by mere fact that Plaintiff was part of the APU/HCHC joint venture to provide medical services is not sufficient to trigger the indemnity provision, and nowhere in the contract between HCHC/APU does it mention group photographs.  HCHC has met its prima facie burden that Plaintiff’s injuries did not arise out of any act or omission by HCHC, nor did Plaintiff’s injuries arise from HCHC’s performance of the Agreement. Therefore, the burden shifts to Temple City to provide evidence of an issue of a material fact.  Temple City argues that APU was the agent of HCHC, and that HCHC is liable for the acts and omissions of APU employees participating in group photographs of the APU nursing students at the clinic. Temple City contends that HCHC’s reliance on Morlin Asset Management LP v. Murachanian (2016) 2 Cal.App.5th 184 is distinguishable from the instant case because Morlin was limited to the use and occupancy of a premises defined in a lease agreement, whereas here the indemnity clause provides HCHC shall indemnify Temple City for all claims arising out of or connected to HCHC’s acts or omissions arising from or related to the Agreement, including breach of the Agreement.  In Morlin, a lease agreement with a dentist imposed an indemnity obligation on the dentist for claims “arising out of, involving or in connection with, the use and/or occupancy of the Premises by Lessee.” “We hold that under the indemnity clause in this case, the injury to a third party that occurred outside the dental suite, in a common area over which the landlords have exclusive control, did not arise out of the tenant's use of the dental suite.” (Morlin Asset Management LP v. Murachanian (2016) 2 Cal.App.5th 184, 193.) Because the accident occurred in the stairwell outside of the tenant’s suite, the Court of Appeal held that “[t]he connection between the tenant’s use of his suite and the accident in the stairwell over which the tenant had no control is too remote to have been within the contemplation of the parties when they entered into the lease.” (Ibid.) Here, the Agreement’s indemnity provision is related to claims for injury "arising out of or in connection with HCHC's acts and/or omissions arising from or related to this Agreement, including use of Facility by HCHC, and HCHC's breach of this Agreement." Unlike in Morlin, which was limited specifically with use and occupancy of the premises defined as the dental suite, the “Facility” is not defined here. Rather, the Agreement provides a diagram, which includes the playground. Further, the Agreement is broader than the language in Morlin because it is not limited to use of the Facility, but also includes “acts and/or omissions arising from or related to this Agreement.” Courts must “¿liberally construe the evidence in support of the party opposing summary judgment and resolve doubts concerning the evidence in favor of that party.¿” (¿¿Dore v. Arnold Worldwide, Inc. (2006) 39 Cal.4th 384, 389¿¿.) While the Court agrees to an extent that Plaintiff’s use of the playground is arguably remote from the purpose of the Agreement, the Court is also unable to conclude that there is indisputably no triable issue of material fact as to whether the participating APU staff would be considered agents of HCHC, and whether the permissible use of the Facility by HCHC of “related services and supporting tasks” may encompass APU’s act of utilizing the playground for photograph purposes.  Based on the foregoing, HCHC does not establish it is entitled to summary judgment on Temple City’s cross-complaint as a matter of law. Given this finding, the Court need not address arguments concerning equitable indemnification and contribution, or arguments related to declaratory relief because there remains controversy over HCHC’s contractual duty to indemnify.   III. Conclusion  Cross-Defendant HCHC’s motion for summary judgment, or in the alternative adjudication, is denied.   Moving party is ordered to give notice.    PLEASE TAKE NOTICE: Parties are encouraged to meet and confer after reading this tentative ruling to see if they can reach an agreement. If a party intends to submit on this tentative ruling,¿the party must send an email to the court at¿sscdept31@lacourt.org¿with the Subject line “SUBMIT” followed by the case number.¿ The body of the email must include the hearing date and time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the party submitting.¿¿ Unless¿all¿parties submit by email to this tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or in person for oral argument.¿ You should assume that others may appear at the hearing to argue.¿¿ If the parties neither submit nor appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.¿ After the Court has issued a tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion without leave.¿  Dated this 11th day of December 2023      Hon. Michelle C. Kim Judge of the Superior Court   