 Case Number:  22STCV26278    Hearing Date:   December 12, 2023    Dept:  31 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA  FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT  LEANNA PALOMINO, ET AL., Plaintiff(s),  vs.  123 MOVING & STORAGE LLC, ET AL.,  Defendant(s). ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) )       CASE NO: 22STCV26278  [TENTATIVE] ORDER RE: MOTION FOR DETERMINATION OF GOOD FAITH SETTLEMENT  Dept. 31 1:30 p.m.  December 12, 2023  I.  Background Plaintiffs Leanna Palomino; Lyla Packer, Skyla Packer and Alaina Packer, all minors, by and through their Guardian Ad Litem, Leanna Palomino; Aqueelah Dixon Harvey; Kamaree Arion Harvey and Brooklynn Lekura Degrate, all minors, by and through their Guardian Ad Litem; and Aqueelah Dixon Harvey (“Plaintiffs”) filed this action against defendants 123 Moving & Storage LLC; Rafael Rodriguez Sanchez; Daveonta Louis Robinson; and Donshel Zomalt-Robinson for damages arising from an automobile incident.    On August 29, 2023, Defendants 123 Moving & Storage LLC (“123 Moving”) and Rafael Rodriguez Sanchez (“Sanchez”) (collectively, “Defendants”) filed the instant motion for determination of good faith settlement between Plaintiffs and Defendants.  As of November 29, 2023, the motion is unopposed. Further, there has been no motion to contest the good faith of the settlement filed to date.  II. Determination of Good Faith Settlement Plaintiffs and Defendants have agreed to settle Plaintiffs’ claims against Defendants, by and through their insurers, for the policy limits of $6,000,000. Collectively, Plaintiffs claim approximately $138,000 in past medical specials, in addition to claims for future medical care for an undetermined amount. Defendants deny liability, arguing it was Defendant Daveonta Louis Robinson who first collided with Plaintiffs’ vehicle, which caused Plaintiffs’ vehicle to be pushed into Defendant Rafael Rodriguez Sanchez’s lane of travel. Further, Defendants argue Plaintiffs were travelling at high speed and contributed to the incident, and that the proposed settlement exceeds Defendants’ proportionate liability.  Defendants sufficiently address the factors in Tech-Bilt, Inc. v. Woodward- Clyde & Associates (1985) 38 Cal.3d 488, to show that the settlement was made in good faith.  The moving papers discuss Plaintiffs’ potential recovery, proportionate liability, the amount paid in settlement and its allocation, and the lack of collusion or fraud in reaching the settlement agreement.   The burden on a motion for determination of good faith settlement rests squarely on the party opposing the finding of good faith. (CCP §877.6(d).)  No opposition was filed. In light of the lack of opposition, no party has met that burden.    The motion for determination of good faith settlement is therefore GRANTED as between Plaintiffs and Defendants 123 Moving & Storage LLC and Rafael Rodriguez Sanchez.  Moving party is ordered to give notice.     PLEASE TAKE NOTICE: Parties are encouraged to meet and confer after reading this tentative ruling to see if they can reach an agreement. If a party intends to submit on this tentative ruling,¿the party must send an email to the court at¿sscdept31@lacourt.org¿with the Subject line “SUBMIT” followed by the case number.¿ The body of the email must include the hearing date and time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the party submitting.¿¿ Unless¿all¿parties submit by email to this tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or in person for oral argument.¿ You should assume that others may appear at the hearing to argue.¿¿ If the parties neither submit nor appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.¿ After the Court has issued a tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion without leave.¿  Dated this 11th day of December 2023      Hon. Michelle C. Kim Judge of the Superior Court   