 Case Number:  24SMCV04899    Hearing Date:   January 6, 2025    Dept:  I This is a request for a writ of attachment.  Actually, three writs.  Although the issues relating to ZenMoose are
a bit different from the two individuals, and the other individual is set for
another day, the court addresses them all together. 
 
Plaintiff asserts a breach of contract action.  The back story is that plaintiff hired an
individual, Pearson, as its CEO. 
According to plaintiff, and unbeknownst to plaintiff, Pearson was
breaching his fiduciary duties left and right. 
He allegedly stole $16 million using various means and methods, one of
which was making unauthorized loans of plaintiff’s money to friends or using
corporate funds to buy private property for himself.  One loan that Pearson made was to ZenMoose,
which loan was guaranteed by the two individuals, Warren and Simone.  For purposes of this writ application,
though, plaintiff is not alleging the tort—that ZenMoose was defrauding
plaintiff or that it was helping Pearson to do so.  Instead, plaintiff alleges that Calfund in
fact made a loan to ZenMoose of $2,970,000. 
In return, ZenMoose agreed to repay the principal plus compound interest
at 20% in a balloon payment due 1095 days after the loan funded.  There was also a $30,000 documentation
fee.  So, when the loan became due, the amount
that was due was $5,184,000.  If there
was a default, Calfund was entitled to a 10% late charge.  The loan funded on October 8, 2021, making
the loan due on October 7, 2024.  For
purposes of the attachment, Calfund will take the loan on its face as if it
were a legitimate transaction.  It seeks
an attachment in the amount due, plus the late fee.  The two individuals—Warren and Simone—signed
a guarantee for the loan, guaranteeing not only the loan itself but also fees
and costs that might be incurred to enforce the loan.  On December 7, 2022, Calfund recorded a UCC
Financing Statement with the Nevada Secretary of State.  On September 25, 2024, Calfund sent
defendants a letter noting that the loan would soon be due.  Defendants acknowledged the debt but said
that they could not repay it.  The astute
reader will have guessed that the maturity date came and went with no
payment.  Plaintiff seeks what is due
under the note, and seeks to attach the assets of ZenMoose and the
individuals.  Plaintiffs also seek a
Temporary Protective Order stopping defendants, or any of them, from
transferring any assets anywhere.
 
Defendants raise a host of reasons why the application ought
to be denied.  The first is a technical
reason.  Defendants state that
plaintiff’s counsel ought not have signed the applications because the
application ought to be signed by one of the principals.  In fact, the application must be signed by
the corporation—even though it is a jural entity.  Because corporations are not humans, the
actual person putting pen (or fingers) to paper (or keyboard) must be a human
authorized to sign, such as “XYZ Corporation by Casey Smith, its
President.”  In contrast, the
verification and supporting declaration must be signed by a human as a human,
such as “Casey Smith.”  The human is
attesting to the truth of the matters verified, the entity is only attesting
that it is seeking the writ.  As such, it
is not the end of the world if counsel for plaintiff signed the attachment
request on Calfund’s behalf if he was authorized to do so.  But counsel could not sign the verification
unless counsel had knowledge of the underlying facts in the
application—something unlikely as to the background facts, but quite possible
as to litigation or collection-related facts. 
The court agrees that Kornberg is plaintiff’s lawyer and that there is
no reason to believe that he has knowledge of anything (other than through
discussions with his client) relating to the background of the loan.  Of course, that may not be the case; Kornberg
may be general counsel and may actually have been the person who does have
knowledge of the pertinent facts, but there is nothing to so indicate
here.  However, the court also has
Minasyan’s declaration, and it would seem that Minasyan has more
knowledge.  Thus, to the extent that Minasyan’s
declaration provides adequate support for the writ, the fact that a lawyer
signed the application is not fatal.  The
court will inquire to be sure that Kornberg was authorized to sign the
application, but it would be odd if he lacked such authority.
 
If plaintiff can get past that, then the court must consider
the test set forth in CCP section 483.010. 
That requires a showing that the underlying claim must be one for money
arising from contract in an amount exceeding $500 and must arise from the
operation of the defendant’s business. 
While the specific amount of the damages need not be fully liquidated,
the amount must be measurable from the contract itself and the calculation must
be reasonable and certain.  Further,
plaintiff must make a showing that it will prevail.  Here, no one disputes that the amount in
controversy exceeds $500.  Nor does
anyone really dispute the amount directly. 
The principal is set forth in the loan document, as is the interest
rate, documentation fee, and late fee. 
It could be that defendants have an issue with the math, but they have
not specified what it is.  What
defendants do argue in their papers is that the amount is uncertain because
they are entitled to an offset based on their cross-complaint.  That is a bit of an unusual claim.  Usually, the offset is based on a
cross-complaint by the defendant against the plaintiff, or at least an
affirmative defense of offset.  So, for
example, if there were a claim that Calfund did not provide the loan proceeds
until 6 months after they were promised, that could lead to an offset both as
to the amount of interest and potentially based on any damages the flowed from
the delay.  That is not the problem
here.  Defendants agree that the full
amount of the loan timely funded (although defendants emphasize that only
ZenMoose got the actual money, not Warren or Simone).  The cross-complaint is against Pearson.  The claim, one would suppose, is that he is
really the bad guy here and that the amount of the loan ought to be offset by
his bad acts.  The court thinks that this
is a distinction with a difference. 
Generally, this doctrine applies to an offset but must be “cross-demands
for money [existing] between the parties.”  (Birman v. Loeb (1998) 64 Cal.App.4th
502, 508-509, emphasis added.)  This has
its origin in cases in which both parties are debtor and creditor to one
another: a writ of attachment can be had only for the net.  (Granberry v. Islay Investments (1995)
9 Cal.4th 738.)  Defendants do not
suggest that they are entitled to an offset from plaintiff.  Therefore, the court believes that the amount
of the claim is sufficiently alleged. 
However, the court does have one issue, discussed below, that plaintiff
will need to address.
 
The next issue is probable validity.  Defendants do not really argue this point as
to ZenMoose, but they do seem to argue that there will be no recovery from
Warren or Simone.  The court does not see
why that is.  The court agrees with the
defense that the money went to ZenMoose. 
From there, it might have gone to the individuals, although there is no
evidence of that.  But that is not really
the point.  Warren was ZenMoose’s
CEO.  And although the court does not
know what Simone’s precise relationship is with ZenMoose, Simone is alleged to
be an owner and controlling individual and 
appears to have the same address as Warren.  At the end of the day, though, they each
signed a guarantee, and they do not challenge that allegation.  As guarantors, a writ of attachment will lie
against them as much as it does for the borrower.  Relatedly, defendants seem to suggest that it
is Calfund’s fault that defendants are in this mess because they did not
supervise Pearson.  The court
disagrees.  There is no allegation here
that ZenMoose was tricked by Pearson into signing the loan document.  The court agrees it is a pretty horrible loan
document for ZenMoose, but the court cannot say, based on the arguments now
before the court, that the document was illegal as to ZenMoose such that it
ought to be set aside.  The fact is that
they got the money; they don’t get to just keep it.
 
No one disputes that this is a suit for damages.
 
Defendants do contest the property to be attached.  The court agrees with plaintiff that all
property held by ZenMoose is subject to attachment in California.  But the defense seems to argue that any
attachment must be limited to the property within the UCC Financing Statement,
which would include only ZenMoose property in Nevada.  The court does not understand the argument.  A creditor need not have a UCC filing to seek
a writ of attachment.  So the fact that
the property at issue in this application is not subject to the UCC filing is
of no moment.  Related to that, Warren
and Simone seem to suggest that their guarantee did not give plaintiff the
right to attach their personal assets. 
The court agrees that a guarantee contract could be written that
way.  But the court does not see anything
like that in the guarantee at issue here. 
In other words, the guarantee gives the creditor the right to attach anything
that is not expressly excluded or exempted by law.  There is no contractual language of exclusion
here.
 
Warren and Simone do, however, claim an exemption.  The court agrees that wages and property
necessary for support are exempt from attachment.  (CCP sec. 487.020.)  Each claims that they are paid $15,000/month
and that this amount is necessary to pay rent and other living expenses.  The problem is that other than simply saying
the words, there is no proof.  For
example, there is no proof of the amount of the lease or mortgage they pay;
there is no proof as to the amount of money spent on food; there is no proof of
the amount of money spent on utilities. 
Were the numbers smaller, the court might overlook this issue.  After all, it definitely takes some money to
live, and if the total exemption amount were, say $2500/month, the court might
just say that it sounds reasonable and move on. 
But $30,000/month (which is what they claim—and recall that they share a
single address) is not something the court will just take on faith.  The claim of exemption is therefore of no
evidentiary value.  Further, the claim of
exemption must specify the specific property to be exempted.  The court assumes that the claim is to exempt
income, as that is how the declaration reads. 
But this also suggests that all other assets are fair game, including
cars, homes, and other non-income stuff. 
The fact is that the defense had to present financial information to
back up the exemption claim.  They did
not do so.
 
And that leaves the issue that the court raises sua
sponte.  Plaintiff declares, through
Minasyan, that the ZenMoose loan was “unauthorized” and made “without the
knowledge or consent of the other officers or members of Calfund.”  To the extent that this is an unauthorized
loan, the court is a bit troubled by the 20% interest rate and the 10% penalty
provision, which seems like what it says it is—a penalty and not liquidated
damages.  The court would have expected
at least some of these issues to have been addressed and it is having trouble
understanding whether it ought to issue a writ in the full amount demanded with
those issues outstanding.  In addition,
the request for the TPO is not based on evidence.  It is based on Minasyan saying that he heard
from somewhere that ZenMoose, Warren, and Simone, are moving funds into asset
protection mechanisms.  The declaration
is plainly based on nothing but hearsay, as Minasyan states “This information
was conveyed directly to Calfund through third parties,” with no additional
detail.  That was not enough when the ex
parte was requested and it is not enough now.  Although, that said, there does seem to be
some evidence that ZenMoose is not paying its bills on time—at least not this
debt.  And defendants seeks a $3 million
bond.  Why?  Because. 
Other than saying in a conclusory way that this will put all of
ZenMoose’s property on the line, there is nothing.  The court does not know what property
ZenMoose has outside the state, or inside the state for that matter; the court
does not have any financial documents as to ZenMoose’s assets; the court has
nothing on the finances of Warren and Simone other than that they live
large.  
 
In short, plaintiffs have made out a claim for the writ, at
least in the principal amount plus some addition for fees and costs.  The court will therefore issue a writ in the
amount of $3.2 million.  This is without
prejudice to increasing the writ on a proper showing explaining how the
admitted impropriety of the loan might affect the validity of the loan’s
terms.  The writ will be dependent upon a
bond being posted of $100,000.  The
relatively small amount is because defendants have raised no defense to the
action—at least as to the principal of the loan—and thus the likelihood that
defendants will suffer harm from an improper attachment is small.  Further, defendants have provided no evidence
of the harm they will suffer from the writ. 
As to the TPO, the court needs more evidence before it essentially stops
defendants from transferring any assets. 
The court warns the defense, though, that plaintiffs can take
discovery.  If defendants are not
forthcoming in a proper way in discovery, the court might draw the inference
that it is because they are hiding the truth. 
Further, plaintiff, should it prevail, will be able to utilize the UVTA
to recover any improperly transferred assets, including from those to whom the
assets were transferred.  But for now,
the TPO request is denied for lack of evidence. 
The only evidence of insolvency is the failure to pay this particular
debt, and that is not enough.  The
evidence of hiding assets is non-existent on this record.
 
Plaintiff will submit a revised writ.  Because this decision does away with the
hearing as to Simone (same reasoning), absent strong objection the court will
advance that hearing to today and this order will be the ruling thereon.
 