  Case Number:  24STCP02749    Hearing Date:   September 13, 2024    Dept:  26   
Inland
Valley Humane Society v. Noriega, et
al.PETITION TO DETERMINE IF DOG IS VICIOUS 
(Cal. Food & Agric. Code § 31602 et
seq.)
ANALYSIS: 
 
Petitioner
Inland Valley Humane Society, on behalf of City of Pomona (“Petitioner”) filed
the instant Petition to Declare Dog Vicious against Respondent Martin Noriega
(“Respondent”) on August 26, 2024. No response to the Petition has been filed
to date. 
 
Discussion
 
Petitioner moves
to declare a dog owned or kept by Respondent a vicious dog pursuant to Cal.
Food & Agriculture Code section 31600, et seq. A hearing on such a petition
must be held promptly within no less than five working days nor more than 10
working days after service of the Petition and notice upon the owner or keeper
of the dog. (Cal. Food & Agric. Code, § 31621.) “The owner or keeper of the
dog shall be served with notice of the hearing and a copy of the petition,
either personally or by first-class mail with return receipt requested.” (Cal.
Food & Agric. Code, § 31621.) Petitioner filed proof of service of the
Petition and Notice of Hearing by certified mail with Return Receipt Requested
on August 28, 2024. 
 
At the hearing
on the Petition, the Court may admit into evidence all relevant evidence,
including incident reports and the affidavits of witnesses. (Cal. Food &
Agric. Code, § 31621.) A finding that the dog is potentially dangerous or
vicious must be made upon a preponderance of the evidence. (Cal. Food &
Agric. Code, § 31621.) 
 
“Vicious dog” means
any of the following:
 
(a) Any dog that, when
unprovoked, in an aggressive manner, inflicts severe injury on or kills a human
being.
 
(b) Any dog previously
determined to be and currently listed as a potentially dangerous dog that,
after its owner or keeper has been notified of this determination, continues
the behavior described in Section 31602 or is maintained in violation of Section
31641, 31642, or 31643.
 
(Cal. Food &
Agric. Code § 31603.) 
 
The Petition is
supported by the declaration of Animal Control Officer, Stephanie Aldaco (“Aldaco”),
who makes the following statement. Petitioner’s dispatch received a call on
July 7, 2023, from Respondent, stating that his dog, Quimbo, bit his neighbor’s
boyfriend, Joe Gonzales (“Gonzales”). (Pet., Aldaco Decl., ¶4.) Respondent also
stated that Gonzales was transported to a local hospital by first responders. (Ibid.)
On July 8, 2023, Gonzales came to Petitioner and asked to make a statement about
the dog bite incident. (Id. at ¶5.) Gonzales said he had been bitten by
Quimbo at approximately 7:00 p.m. on July 6, 2023. (Ibid.) At the time
of the incident, Gonzales was in the yard of his girlfriend’s mother, Jamie
Butler, when he saw two dogs chained up in the neighbor’s front yard. (Id.
at ¶5.) One of the dogs broke free and charged at Gonzales, biting him on the
left buttock and right arm. (Ibid.) The attack caused several bite
marks, puncture wounds, bruising and lacerations requiring five sutures. (Ibid.)
The injuries are documented in Gonzales’ medical records. (Id. at Exh.
B.) On July 10, 2023, Respondent came to Petitioner and relinquished ownership
of Quimbo and paid for his cremation. (Id. at ¶6.) On July 17, 2023,
Respondent returned to Petitioner and said he would like to get Quimbo back but
was informed that the case was still pending. (Id. at ¶7.) On July 18,
2023, Gonzales provided Petitioner with a Voluntary Statement Form recounting
the incident. (Id. at ¶8 and Exh. C.) Additional reports were filed by
other Animal Control Officers regarding the incident after they spoke with Respondent
and Gonzales. (Id. at Exh. D.) 
 
This evidence
demonstrates that, as a result of the attack on Gonzales, Quimbo falls within
the definition of “vicious dog” pursuant to Cal. Food & Agriculture Code
section 31603, subdivision (a). The evidence shows that the dog attacked Gonzales
without provocation and that the injuries he sustained were severe. A severe
injury is defined as “any physical injury to a human being that results in
muscle tears or disfiguring lacerations or requires multiple sutures or
corrective or cosmetic surgery.” (Cal. Food & Agric. Code, § 31604.) Based
on the foregoing, the Court finds that the dog that is the subject of this
Petition is “vicious” as defined by Cal. Food & Agriculture Code section
31603, subdivision (a).
 
Based on the
foregoing findings, the Court adopts Petitioner’s recommendations for the
conditions for Quimbo’s release to Respondent, as follows:
 
(1) Respondent
must keep Quimbo in a secure kennel at all times while outside; 
(2) When off the
property of the Respondent, Quimbo must be kept on a 6-foot leash, muzzled and
wear a Vicious Dog collar at all times; 
(3) Respondent
must post a sign with lettering at least two inches in both height and width
that reads, “Beware of Vicious Dog,” in a conspicuous place at or near the
front and rear entrances of Respondent’s property; 
(4) Should a
move or transfer of ownership occur, Respondent must notify Petitioner of the
move or transfer of Quimbo, in writing, 15 days prior to the occurrence; 
(5) Respondent
must always maintain Quimbo away from the front yard or any yard adjacent to a
street or sidewalk; 
(6) Respondent
must obtain a liability insurance policy in the amount of $100,000.00 that
covers Quimbo for any future injuries or damages caused by Quimbo and evidence
of such policy must be provided to Petitioner; 
(7) Respondent
must install a secure kennel that is bolted to cement ground and topped with
chain linked material at the rear of the property and all points of access must
be securely locked with padlock, which Petitioner will inspect prior to the release
of Quimbo; 
(8) Respondent
must enroll Quimbo in obedience training classes and provide proof of
completion within 60 days after the release of Quimbo; 
(9) Quimbo must
be microchipped and spayed or neutered prior to his release at the expense of Respondent;

(10) Respondent
shall pay all related fees for impound, food and care, dog license and vicious
dog license; 
(11) Respondent
shall maintain a current dog license and vicious dog license due every year; 
(12) Respondent
must notify Petitioner immediately if Quimbo gets out, is at large, or has
committed any
assault or attack on any person, domestic animal or livestock; and 
(13) Petitioner
must be permitted to verify that all conditions have been met.
 
Finally, Petitioner
requests that Respondent be fined in the amount of $2,369.00 for expenses,
fines, and fees incurred and for the costs of kenneling at a rate of $10 per
day since July 6, 2023. (Food & Ag. Code, §§ 31662, 31663.) Respondent is
ordered to pay the costs stated above. 
 
Conclusion
 
Petition of Inland Valley Humane
Society, on behalf of the City of Pomona, to Declare Dog Vicious is GRANTED.
PETITIONER TO FILE AND SERVE PROPOSED ORDER IN ACCORDANCE WITH THIS RULING
WITHIN 20 DAYS OF THIS RULING.  
 
 
Moving party to give notice
 
 