  Case Number:  21STCV18236    Hearing Date:   January 11, 2024    Dept:  8 Tentative Ruling¿ 
¿¿ 
HEARING DATE:                 January 11, 2024¿ 
¿¿ 
CASE NUMBER:                  21STCV18236
¿¿ 
CASE NAME:                        Homa Deris v.
Byron Kim, DDS, et al.
¿¿ 
MOVING PARTY:                Defendant, Kevin Choi, DDS and Bardi-Nugent Dental Corporation dba
Rootvision Endo
 
RESPONDING PARTY:       Plaintiff, Homa Deris
¿¿ 
TRIAL DATE:                        March
22, 2024
¿¿ 
MOTION:¿                              (1) Motion for Summary Judgment
and in the alternative, Summary Adjudication 
                                                
¿ Tentative Rulings:                 (1) Denied as to the malpractice
cause of action but MSA granted as to the concealment, fraud, and Elder Abuse causes
of action
 
I. BACKGROUND¿¿ 
¿¿ 
A. Factual¿¿ 
¿¿ 
On
May 14, 2021, Plaintiff, Homa Deris (“Plaintiff”) filed a Complaint against
Defendants, Byron Kim, DDS, Rojin Erfan, DDS, Walter Jefferson, DDS, Walter
Jefferson Dental Corporation dba PCH Smiles Dentistry and Orthodontics, Kevin
Choi, DDS, Bardi-Nugent Dental Corporation dba Rootvision Endo, and DOES 1
through 10. On October 26, 2021, Plaintiff filed a First Amended Complaint
(“FAC”) alleging causes of action for: (1) Dental Malpractice; (2) Fraudulent
Concealment; (3) Intentional Misrepresentation; (4) Breach of Fiduciary Duty;
and (5) Elder Abuse.  
 
Defendants, Kevin Choi, D.D.S. (“Choi”) and
Bardi-Nugent Dental Corporation dba Rootvision Endo (“Rootvision”) now file a
Motion for Summary Judgment or in the alternative, Summary Adjudication. 
 
B. Procedural¿¿ 
¿ 
On October 23, 2023, Defendant, Choi and
Rootvision filed a Motion for Summary Judgment, or in the Alternative, Summary
Adjudication. On December 21, 2023, Plaintiff filed an opposition. On January
5, 2023, Choi and Rootvision filed a reply brief.  The Court previously ruled on a dispositive
motion brought by co-Defendant Dr. Erfan
in October of 2023. 
 
 
 
II. ANALYSIS¿ 
 
            Here, Choi
and Rootvision argue that there is no triable issue of fact for Plaintiff to
establish the elements necessary for her Dental Malpractice, Fraudulent
Concealment, Intentional Misrepresentation, and Elder Abuse/Neglect causes of
action against Choi and Rootvision.
 
A. Legal Standard 
 
The function of a motion for summary judgment or
adjudication is to allow a determination as to whether an opposing party cannot
show evidentiary support for a pleading or claim and to enable an order of
summary dismissal without the need for trial. (Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield
Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 843.) CCP Section 437(c) “requires the trial
judge to grant summary judgment if all the evidence submitted, and ‘all
inferences reasonably deducible from the evidence’ and uncontradicted by other
inferences or evidence, show that there is no triable issue as to any material
fact and that the moving party is entitled to judgment as a matter of law.”¿ (Adler
v. Manor Healthcare Corp. (1992) 7 Cal.App.4th 1110, 1119.)¿ “The function
of the pleadings in a motion for summary judgment is to delimit the scope of
the issues; the function of the affidavits or declarations is to disclose
whether there is any triable issue of fact within the issues delimited by the
pleadings.”¿ (Juge v. County of Sacramento (1993) 12 Cal.App.4th 59, 67,
citing FPI Development, Inc. v. Nakashima (1991) 231 Cal. App. 3d 367,
381-382.)¿ 
 
As to each claim as framed by the complaint, the defendant
moving for summary judgment must satisfy the initial burden of proof by
presenting facts to negate an essential element, or to establish a defense.
(CCP § 437c(p)(2); Scalf v. D. B. Log Homes, Inc. (2005) 128 Cal.App.4th
1510, 1520. ) Courts “liberally construe the evidence in support of the party
opposing summary judgment and resolve doubts concerning the evidence in favor
of that party.”¿ (Dore v. Arnold Worldwide, Inc.¿(2006) 39 Cal.4th 384,
389.)¿ 
 
Once the defendant has met that burden, the burden shifts
to the plaintiff to show that a triable issue of one or more material facts
exists as to that cause of action or a defense thereto.¿¿¿ 
To establish a triable issue of material fact, the party
opposing the motion must produce substantial responsive evidence. (Sangster
v. Paetkau (1998) 68 Cal.App.4th 151, 166.) 
 
B. Discussion 
 
Here, Choi and Rootvision assert that their motion is based on five interrelated
grounds: (1) compliance with the applicable standard of care for Dental
Malpractice; (2) Lack of causation of Plaintiff’s claimed injuries, (3) disclosure
of all treatment options by Dr. Choi so there could be no fraudulent concealment;
(4) lack of any untrue statement or representation of fact, particularly as to the
success or lack of success of the root canal procedure, and (5) lack of any
substantial caretaking or custodial relationship as required for a health care
provider to be subject to the enhanced remedies of the Elder Abuse Act, per Winn
v..Pioneer Medical Group.  The Court
will discuss each ground in turn below.  
 
Dental Malpractice 
 
Here, Defendants
Choi and Rootvision argue that Plaintiff’s cause of action for Dental
Malpractice fails because Plaintiff cannot establish the requisite elements of
Breach and Causation. In a medical malpractice action, a plaintiff must
establish the following elements: “(1) the duty of the professional to use such
skill, prudence, and diligence as other members of his profession commonly
possess and exercise; (2) a breach of that duty; (3) a proximate causal
connection between the negligent conduct and the resulting injury; and (4)
actual loss or damage resulting from the professional's negligence. 
[citations.]”  (Galvez v. Frields (2001) 88 Cal.App.4th 1410,
1420.)
 
Standard
of Care
 
Defendants Choi
and Rootvision provide the declaration of John Buoncristiani, DDS as evidence
that moving defendants did not fall below the standard of care. Defendants Choi
and Rootvision note that Dr. Buoncristiani’s declaration establishes that to a
reasonable degree of dental and medical probability, all of the dental and
endodontic care and treatment provided by Dr. Choi to the Plaintiff complied at
all times with the applicable standard of care for Endodontists, practicing in
the Southern California community then and now. (Defendants’ SSUMF ¶¶ 88-89.) 
 
In opposition,
Plaintiff argues that triable issues of material fact exist and first argues
that Defendant Choi and Rootvision’s expert witness provided ultimate facts
without reasoned explanation and does not satisfy the standard for summary
judgment motions. Specifically, Plaintiff contends that Dr. Buoncristiani’s
declaration is conclusory and unsupported by evidence. For example, Plaintiff
contends that when providing a narrative of the record that Dr. Buoncristiani
reviewed, he states in paragraph 7(f) that on February 4, 2020, Dr. Choi’s
“goal was to remove all the existing materials inside tooth #9, disinfect the
tooth, and place medication inside the tooth.” However, Plaintiff asserts that
Dr. Choi did not write any notes as to what his goal was on this date, and
thus, such a statement is Dr. Buoncristiani’s assumption, and speculation as to
what Dr. Choi’s goal might have been on this specific date. 
 
Plaintiff also submitted
a declaration from expert witness Stephen Howard, DDS, MSCD, FASDC, FIAO to
support her contention that Defendants Choi and Rootvision breached the
standard of care in numerous ways. First, Dr. Howard contends that both Dr.
Choi as well as Dr. Buoncristiani are Endodontists, and as such, Dr. Howard
believes that they should be expected to provide endodontic diagnosis and
evaluation to a probable degree greater than what was done by Dr. Choi.
(Declaration of Stephen Howard, DDS, MSCD, FASDC, FIAO (“Howard Decl”), ¶ 19.)
However, Dr. Howard contends that as endodontists, Dr. Choi approached
Plaintiff’s pain issues strictly from the perspective of root damage and
treatment within tooth #9. (Howard Decl., ¶ 22.) Ultimately, Dr. Howard asserts
that while the initial diagnosis and treatment of tooth #9 on February 5, 2019
was correct, the diagnosis and treatment subsequent to that time by Dr. Erfan,
and then by Dr. Choi was below the standard of care. (Howard Decl., ¶ 31.) 
 
In their reply
brief, Choi and Rootvision argue that Plaintiff’s expert witness is not
qualified to rebut Defendants’ expert because Dr. Howard is not an endodontist
and is not qualified to opine on the standard of care for endodontics.
Defendants Choi and Rootvision argue it was Plaintiff’s responsibility to
submit a competent expert testimony that Dr. Choi breached the standard of care
for endodontics to survive summary judgment. Moving Defendants also argue that
Dr. Howard does not opine that Dr. Choi’s actions caused or worsened
Plaintiff’s alleged injury.
 
A
similar argument was made in the Motion for Summary Judgment by Dr. Erfan.
Similar to the Court’s decision in that motion, the Court disagrees as to
Defendants’ narrow view of what the standard of care implicated here is, and
the Court disagrees that on a Section 437c motion the Court can weigh the
qualifications of competing expert witnesses. Even though it appears that
Defendants’ expert appears to have more relevant qualifications and expertise,
Plaintiff’s expert meets the minimum level of qualifications for an expert
witness. It will be for the jury to decide as to what weight they will give to
the competing experts’ qualifications and those of the moving defendants, and
whose opinion the jury determines to be the more persuasive. Plaintiff’s FAC
alleges that Dr. Choi negligently performed a second root canal although he was
fully aware that the first root canal was not done properly, that the tooth was
not viable enough for a second root canal, and that this second root canal
would not undo the damage already done with the first root canal and would not
resolve Plaintiff’s constant pain and potentially make the tooth’s condition
worse. (FAC, ¶ 60.)   The Court’s view is
that Dr. Howard is not required in an MSJ motion to provide testimony as to
whether the root canal itself was done properly, or whether the circumstances
surrounding the performance of the root canal fell below the standard of care.
 
            The Court
finds that triable issues of fact have been raised by the Declaration of Dr.
Howard as to the standard of care.
 
Causation 
 
            Defendants
Choi and Rootvision also argue that there are no triable issues of fact that
they caused Plaintiff’s injuries. As to this issue, moving Defendants rely on
Dr. Buoncristiani’s declaration in which he opined that, to a reasonable degree
of medical probability, that no action or omission on the part of Dr. Choi or
Rootvision proximately caused or contributed to Plaintiff’s claimed injury. (Defendants’
SSUMF ¶ 215.) Instead, Dr. Buoncristiani contends that due to Plaintiff’s
unchanging pain following an extraction, it is highly probable that Plaintiff’s
pain was neurogenic and that tooth #9 was not the source of Plaintiff’s pain.
(Defendants’ SSUMF ¶ 240.)
 
            In
opposition, Plaintiff notes that Dr. Howard opined that Defendants, including
Dr. Choi at Rootvision caused Plaintiff’s complaints and injury, including the
trigeminal neuralgia that she suffers from today. (Howard Decl., ¶ 29.) 
 
            Based on
the differing expert opinions, the Court finds that a triable issue of material
fact exists as to the causation element of Dental Malpractice. 
 
Fraudulent Concealment 
 
Next, Defendants Choi and Rootvision argue that
Plaintiff’s claim for fraudulent concealment does not have triable issues of
material fact. “The elements of a cause of action for fraudulent concealment
are: (1) concealment of a material fact; (2) by a defendant with a duty to
disclose; (3) the defendant intended to defraud by failing to disclose; (4)
plaintiff was unaware of the fact and would not have acted as it did had it
known the fact; and (5) damages.” (Butler America, LLC v. Aviation Assurance
Company, LLC (2020) 55 Cal.App.5th 136, 144.) The facts constituting the
alleged fraud must be alleged factually and specifically as to every element of
fraud, as the policy of “liberal construction” of the pleadings will not
ordinarily be invoked. (Lazar v. Superior
Court (1996) 12 Cal.4th 631, 645.) To properly allege fraud against a
corporation, the plaintiffs must plead the names of the persons allegedly
making the false representations, their authority to speak, to whom they spoke,
what they said or wrote, and when it was said or written. (Tarmann v. State Farm Mut. Auto. Ins. Co. (1991) 2 Cal.App.4th 153,
157.)
 
In Plaintiff’s FAC, she alleges that Dr. Choi was
aware that the root canal done by Dr. Erfan had failed but failed to disclose
this fact to Plaintiff in an attempt to protect PCH Smiles. (FAC, ¶ 77.)
Moreover, Plaintiff contends that Dr. Choi was aware that tooth #9 was not
viable enough for a second root canal and that the second root canal would not
undo the damage already done to the tooth, but he nevertheless concealed this
fact from Plaintiff and instead advised her that he could perform a second root
canal, thus advising her that a second root canal was a viable option that
could save her tooth. Plaintiff notes this was not true. (FAC, ¶ 77.) Dr. Choi
argues that this is incorrect, noting that Dr. Choi testified that he never
became aware that Plaintiff had a root canal done on tooth #9 by Dr. Erfran at
PCH Smiles. (Defendants’ SSUMF ¶ 244.) Moving Defendants also argue that there
is no evidence that Dr. Choi failed to disclose any fact to Plaintiff to
protect PCH Smiles. Dr. Choi presents his testimony that he has never had any
communication with Dr. Erfran and has only spoken to Dr. Kim once on the phone.
(Defendants’ SSUMF ¶ 246.) Moving Defendants also argue that Plaintiff cannot
establish he concealed any facts during retreatment or other treatment actions.
Moving Defendants assert that on multiple occasions, the evidence indicates Dr.
Choi informed that Plaintiff’s prognosis of her tooth #9 was guarded, meaning
the treatment was questionable. (Defendants’ SSUMF ¶ 249, Choi Deposition, p.
38.) Dr. Choi’s testimony from his deposition also indicates that he discussed
the treatment options, noting re-treatment or apical surgery or
extraction/implant were discussed. (Defendants’ SSUMF ¶ 250.) Moving Defendants
emphasize that Plaintiff herself even testified that Dr. Choi stated: “if [the
second root canal] doesn’t work, you have to extract the tooth,” confirming
that the potential for failure was communicated to her. (SSUMF ¶ 251.) Lastly, moving
Defendants argue Plaintiff’s allegation that she was given no other option
except retreatment is incorrect based on Dr. Choi’s testimony that he gave
Plaintiff two treatment options (retreatment or possible apicoectomy or
extraction and implant) (Defendants’ SSUMF, ¶ 252), and Plaintiff’s admission
Dr. Choi gave her a second option other than retreatment (extraction)
(Defendants’ SSUMF ¶ 252.)
 
In opposition, Plaintiff argues that moving
defendants have not met their burden of proof because: (1) Rootvision initially
“concealed” 26 pages of records from Plaintiff; (2) none of Dr. Choi’s alleged handwritten
notes were given to Plaintiff prior to the action being filed, but were given on
January 13, 2023; (3) the records provided prior to her filing of the suit
contained notes stating she had endodontic treatment, and notes for the second
root canal; (4) that Choi had talked to Dr. Kim, was aware of root canal done
by PCH Smiles; (5) that records showing Choi did not conceal information from
Plaintiff were not provided to Plaintiff prior to her filing the action, but
only during discovery, raising a triable issue of material fact as to whether
the records were intentionally concealed from Plaintiff or fabricated by
Defendants after Plaintiff’s lawsuit; (6) that Plaintiff testified Choi did not
tell her the cause of the pain in tooth #9; and (7) That in the settlement
agreement raised by defendants in their motion, Plaintiff testified that the
agreement concerned the treatment rendered by Choi and Rootvision and that she
was told that she was not going to receive further treatment if she did not
sign it, thus, forcing her to sign it – and that there is triable issue of fact
as to why she was forced to sign the agreement by Dr. Kim. 
 
Here, the Court is confused as to Plaintiff’s
opposition points. First, the discussions of the alleged concealment of documents
not provided prior to the lawsuit being filed, but which were provided after
discovery had been conducted. The Court is unsure how this raises a triable
issue of fact as to the fraudulent concealment claim. These factors are not
present in the required elements of a claim for fraudulent concealment, nor
touch on what Plaintiff is claiming was concealed from her: i.e., that the
first root canal failed, that her tooth was not viable enough for a second root
canal, and that the second root canal would not undo the damage already done to
the tooth. In disputing Defendants’ SSUMF, Plaintiff contends that these facts
are disputed on the grounds that: (1) The records provided show that Dr. Choi
notated in his records that Plaintiff was referred for a second opinion as to
an RCT done with Dr. Kim and that Choi testified he spoke on the telephone with
her; (2) that it is disputed whether Choi fell below the standard of care; (3)
that Plaintiff is questioning whether the records relied on were generated
subsequent to Plaintiff filing her lawsuit. 
 
The Court does not believe that any of these
arguments dispute the facts provided by moving Defendants. The fact that Choi
spoke with Dr. Kim after a referral does not evidence the claimed proposition that
he knew the first root canal had failed. Further, the disputed fact that Choi
fell below the standard of care does not provide evidence that his genuine
belief was that the prior root canal was done properly, or that his own
treatment may fail, that the treatment was guarded, or that the treatment may
not be successful. Besides the expert testimony being argued as to this issue, and
the Plaintiff’s own testimony as to what WAS disclosed to her, the only piece
of evidence this Court has is Dr. Choi’s declaration. 
 
On a Motion for Summary Adjudication, the Court
is required to consider inferences reasonably deducible from the evidence
presented by the declarations for and against the motion, and to deny the
motion unless the only reasonable inferences to be drawn in favor of the moving
party are uncontradicted by other inferences or evidence. Here, there is no
reasonable inference that could be drawn of intentional or deliberate
concealment of a risk of bodily harm or recuperative problems after Dr. Choi’s
procedures had been completed. There is no chart entry and no radiograph and no
other evidence from which a reasonable jury could infer that Dr. Choi
fraudulently concealed anything. Accordingly, the Court GRANTS summary
adjudication as to the concealment cause of action.
 
Intentional Misrepresentation 
 
Defendants Choi and Rootvision also argue that
there are no triable issues of material fact as to the cause of action for
intentional misrepresentation. “The elements of a cause of action for
intentional misrepresentation are (1) a misrepresentation, (2) with knowledge
of its falsity, (3) with the intent to induce another’s reliance on the
misrepresentation, (4) actual and justifiable reliance, and (5) resulting
damage.” (Daniels v. Select Portfolio
Servicing, Inc. (2016) 246 Cal.App.4th 1150, 1166.) The facts constituting
the alleged fraud must be alleged factually and specifically as to every
element of fraud, as the policy of “liberal construction” of the pleadings will
not ordinarily be invoked. (Lazar v.
Superior Court (1996) 12 Cal.4th 631, 645.) To properly allege fraud
against a corporation, the plaintiffs must plead the names of the persons
allegedly making the false representations, their authority to speak, to whom
they spoke, what they said or wrote, and when it was said or written. (Tarmann v. State Farm Mut. Auto. Ins. Co.
(1991) 2 Cal.App.4th 153, 157.)
 
Moving Defendants assert that Plaintiff’s cause
of action for intentional misrepresentation is based upon the allegation that Dr.
Choi represented to Plaintiff that he was able to perform a second root canal
on tooth #9 and thus, also represented to her that this tooth was viable enough
for a second root canal. (FAC, ¶ 88.) However, Plaintiff asserts in her FAC
that this was false because the tooth was not viable enough for a second root
canal and the only possible option was to extract it. (FAC, ¶ 89.) Defendants
rely on the deposition of Dr. Choi, noting that he informed Plaintiff of the
retreatment’s potential for failure and presented Plaintiff with alternate
treatment options. (Defendants’ SSUMF ¶ 257.)
 
In opposition, Plaintiff argues that although Dr.
Choi stated this in his deposition, Dr. Choi also admitted in his deposition
that he had no notes as to whether he explained to Plaintiff what retreatment
of tooth #9 meant, no notes as to whether the patient agreed to retreatment of
tooth #9, and testified he had no recollection of his treatment of this
patient, and could only testify from his notes, and records of Rootvision. While
this is true, the deposition of Plaintiff does indicate: “According to the chart,
[Dr. Choi] discussed the treatment options to the patient that re-treatment or
apical surgery or extraction/implant was discussed with the patient and also
prognosis was discussed. And the prognosis is guarded, which is questionable,
due to possible fracture of the tooth. So we instructed the patient to discuss
with – the findings or the options treatment options with the general dentist.”
(Deposition of Dr. Choi, p. 37:9-37:16.) Plaintiff again argues that Dr.
Howard’s declaration notes that Dr. Choi’s treatment fell below the standard of
care, but as this Court has previously noted, simply because an individual fell
below the standard of care does not mean they intentionally did so or knowingly
did so – as this cause of action seems to allege. Plaintiff provides no
evidence that Dr. Choi knew the second root canal would not work despite
telling her it might not and if so she would lose the tooth.  
 
Instead of providing any evidence at all under
this argument heading besides her evidence of Dr. Choi potentially treating
below the standard of care per Dr. Howard’s declaration, in opposition,
Plaintiff merely argues that fraud is a question of fact to be decided by a
jury, and thus this motion should be denied. Although this is true, Plaintiff’s
lack of any evidence, besides her expert opinion as to the alleged malpractice shows
that Plaintiff has no evidence of Dr. Choi’s scienter/knowledge that a second
root canal would fail and that extraction was the only option. Even if
Plaintiff were to show that Defendant fell below the standard of care, this
would not be sufficient to show that Defendant Choi knew the root canal would certainly
fail. It is not fraudulent to tell a patient that a procedure may or may not be
successful if it later turns out the procedure did not succeed.  In this case, the Court finds that Defendants
Choi and Rootvision have carried their initial burden, but that Plaintiff was
unable to carry the shifted burden. As such, the Court GRANTS summary adjudication
as to this issue. 
 
Elder Abuse 
 
Finally, Defendants Choi and Rootvision argue
that there are no triable issues of material fact as to Plaintiff’s cause of
action for Elder Abuse. To state a cause of action for elder abuse and neglect,
Plaintiff must allege “[p]hysical abuse, neglect, abandonment, isolation,
abduction, or other treatment with resulting physical harm or pain or mental
suffering.” (Welf. & Inst. Code, § 15610.07, subd. (a)(1).) Acts which are
prohibited under the Elder Abuse Act provisions of the Welfare and Institute
Code “do not include acts of simple professional negligence, but refer to forms
of abuse or neglect performed with some state of culpability greater than mere
negligence.” (Covenant Care, Inc. v.
Superior Court (2004) 32 Cal.4th 771, 781.) To constitute abuse and neglect
within the meaning of the Elder Abuse Act, thereby triggering the enhanced
remedies available under the Act, Plaintiff “must demonstrate by clear and
convincing evidence that defendant is guilty of something more than negligence;
he or she must show reckless, oppressive, fraudulent, or malicious conduct,”
with recklessness referring “to a subjective state of culpability greater than
simple negligence, which has been described as a “deliberate disregard” of the
“high degree of probability” that an injury will occur,” and “[o]ppression,
fraud and malice [involving] intentional or conscious wrongdoing of a
despicable or injurious nature.” (Sababin
v. Superior Court (2006) 144 Cal.App.4th 81, 88-89, quotation marks
omitted.) 
 
Plaintiff’s FAC alleges that Dr. Kim forced her
under duress and/or undue influence to sign a settlement agreement to release
Dr. Choi of any liability for the second root canal because she was made to
believe she was not going to receive dental treatment if she did not sign the
agreement (FAC, ¶ 117.) The FAC also alleges that she was financially abused
because Dr. Kim, instead of covering Dr. Choi’s fee of $1,200, since Plaintiff
had already paid the fee for the first unsuccessful root canal. (FAC, ¶ 119.)
As to Dr. Choi, Plaintiff contends that the unnecessary root canal done by him
as well as his concealment of the true condition of her tooth, placed her at
risk of pain, infection, loss of teeth and greater bodily injury. (FAC, ¶ 120.)

 
As noted above, a claim for elder abuse need
show more than mere professional negligence. Instead, clear and convincing
evidence that defendant is guilty of something more than negligence; he or she
must show reckless, oppressive, fraudulent, or malicious conduct,” with
recklessness referring “to a subjective state of culpability greater than
simple negligence, which has been described as a “deliberate disregard” of the
“high degree of probability” that an injury will occur,” and “[o]ppression,
fraud and malice [involving] intentional or conscious wrongdoing of a
despicable or injurious nature.” (Sababin,
supra, 144 Cal.App.4th at 88-89.)
 
Moving Defendants argue that the Elder Abuse
Act “does not apply unless the defendant health care provider had a substantial
caretaking or custodial relationship, involving ongoing responsibility for one
or more basic needs, with the elder patient.” (Winn v. Pioneer Medical
Group, Inc. (2016) 63 Cal.4th 148, 152.) Defendants argue that here, that
there is no “substantial caretaking or custodial relationship” between
Plaintiff and Dr. Choi as she only had seven (7) visits with him, three of
which were consultations. Winn explained at p. 156 the scope of the Act
as follows: 
 
“The
Elder Abuse Act's heightened remedies are available only in limited
circumstances. A plaintiff must prove, by clear and convincing evidence, that a
defendant is liable for either physical abuse under section 15610.63 or neglect
under section 15610.57, and that the defendant committed the abuse with
“recklessness, oppression, fraud, or malice.” (§ 15657.) Section 15610.57, in
turn, provides two definitions of neglect. 
First, “[t]he negligent failure of any person having the care or custody
of an elder or a dependent adult to exercise that degree of care that a
reasonable person in a like position would exercise.” (§ 15610.57, subd. (a)(1).)
Second, “[t]he negligent failure of an elder or dependent adult to exercise
that degree of self care that a reasonable person in a like position would
exercise.” (Id., subd. (a)(2).) Because plaintiffs allege neglect
arising in the context of medical care and not self-care, we deal only with section
15610.57's first definition of neglect.” 

 
Here, the Court finds, as did the California Supreme
Court in Winn, that there is no proof by the Plaintiff that the allegedly
neglectful health care provider defendant had the requisite care or custodial
relationship with the plaintiff in order to be subject to the Act’s enhanced remedies
beyond those in a garden-variety malpractice case.  The sort of conduct the Legislature sought to
address from individuals “having the care or custody” of an elder seems to contemplate
is “the existence of a robust caretaking or custodial relationship — that is, a
relationship where a certain party has assumed a significant measure of
responsibility for attending to one or more of an elder's basic needs that an
able-bodied and fully competent adult would ordinarily be capable of managing without
assistance.”  (Winn, supra, 63
Cal.4th at p. 158.)  Dentists,
endodontists, and periodontists are not providing for an elder patient’s “basic
needs” that the patient would “ordinarily be capable of managing without
assistance;” rather, Dr. Kim and Dr. Choi provided highly specialized and
expert treatment (competently or not) that an able-bodied patient could not provide
for herself.  The Winn Court
explained that “beyond doubt” the Legislature was “distinguishing between – and
decidedly not lumping together -- claims of medical malpractice [from claims of]
neglect.”  (Id. at p. 159.)  
 
Several cases decided by Courts of Appeal after
Winn confirm this Court’s analysis. 
(See Kruthanooch v. Glendale Adventist Medical Center (2022) 83
Cal.App.5th 1109, 1128 (Second District affirmed the granting of JNOV in
defendant MRI technologist’s favor where no evidence was presented at trial of the
“robust caretaking or custodial relationship” required by the Act); Oroville
Hospital v. Superior Court (2022) 74 Cal.App.5th 382, 389 (based on the
absence of a substantial caretaking or custodial relationship by the defendant
in-home nurses who provided wound care but were not Decedent’s caretaker,
plaintiffs failed to raise a triable issue of material fact so the Third
District granted a writ directing the trial court to grant the defense MSA.)  These cases are much more akin to the episodic
role played by the moving defendants than the more robust caretaking role undertaken
by the acute care facility defendants in Stewart v. Superior Court
(2017) 16 Cal.App.5th 87, 102 where summary adjudication of the Elder Abuse
cause of action was denied.
 
As such, this Court determines that Defendants
Choi and Rootvision have carried their initial burden of showing this Court
that they are entitled to judgment as a matter of law as Plaintiff’s Elder
Abuse cause of action.  Plaintiff has
failed to raise a triable issue of fact that the required custodial
relationship or basic needs care exists here as to the moving defendants’ involvement
with Plaintiff.  As such, the Motion for Summary
Adjudication as to Plaintiff’s Fourth Cause of Action for Elder Abuse is GRANTED.

 
¿¿¿ 