 Case Number:  24STCV01615    Hearing Date:   June 14, 2024    Dept:  32      FERNANDO    BARAJAS-SALOMON,                         Plaintiff,             v.   101 GRANITE COUNTERTOP    LLC, et al.,                          Defendants.           Case No.:  24STCV01615   Hearing Date:  June 14, 2024        [TENTATIVE]    order RE: defendant caMBRIA COMPANY LLC’s demurrer    and motion to strike (CRS# 4376)              BACKGROUND             On January 19, 2024, Plaintiff  Fernando Barajas-Salomon filed this product liability action against various  defendants. Plaintiff filed the operative First Amended Complaint on March 18,  2024, asserting (1) negligence, (2) products liability – failure to warn, (3)  products liability – design defect, (4) fraudulent concealment, (5) breach of  implied warranties, and (6) loss of consortium.              According to the complaint, from  2005 to 2023, Plaintiff worked as a cutter, fabricator and/or installer of  Defendants’ stone products. (FAC ¶¶172-175.) As a result of this work,  Plaintiff came into contact with “inherently hazardous stone products  manufactured, imported, supplied, distributed, contracted, and/or brokered, by  the named Defendants and Does 1-100.” (Id., ¶177.) Specifically,  Plaintiff was “exposed to and inhaled stone dust containing silica and other  toxins and carcinogens.” (Ibid.) Plaintiff allegedly developed lung  disease and is at increased risk of developing other silica-related diseases. (Id.,  ¶178.) Plaintiff alleges that he “has had to receive substantial medical  treatment, including hospitalizations and surgeries, and will require lung  transplantation.” (Id., ¶ 179.)              On May 8, 2024, Defendant Cambria  Company LLC filed the instant demurrer and motion to strike against the FAC. On  June 3, 2024, Plaintiff Baraja-Salomon filed an opposition. On June 7, 2024,  Defendant Cambria Company LLC filed a reply.  LEGAL STANDARD A demurrer for sufficiency tests whether  the complaint states a cause of action. (Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747.) When  considering demurrers, courts read the allegations liberally and in  context. (Taylor v. City of Los  Angeles Dept. of Water and Power (2006) 144 Cal.App.4th 1216, 1228.)  In a demurrer proceeding, the defects must be apparent on the face of the  pleading or by proper judicial notice. (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.30, subd.  (a).) A demurrer tests the pleadings alone and not the evidence or other  extrinsic matters. (SKF Farms v. Superior  Court (1984) 153 Cal.App.3d 902, 905.) Therefore, it lies only where the  defects appear on the face of the pleading or are judicially noticed. (Ibid.) The only issue involved in a  demurrer hearing is whether the complaint, as it stands, unconnected with  extraneous matters, states a cause of action. (Hahn, supra, 147 Cal.App.4th at 747.) Any party, within the time allowed to  respond to a pleading, may serve and file a notice of motion to strike the  whole or any part of that pleading. (Code Civ. Proc., § 435, subd. (b).) The  court may, upon a motion, or at any time in its discretion, and upon terms it  deems proper, strike (1) any irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted in  any pleading and (2) all or any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in  conformity with the laws of this state, a court rule, or an order of the court.  (Id., § 436.) The grounds for moving to strike must appear on the face  of the pleading or by way of judicial notice. (Id., § 437.)     MEET AND CONFER Before filing a demurrer or a motion to  strike, the demurring or moving party is required to meet and confer with the  party who filed the pleading demurred to or the pleading that is subject to the  motion to strike for the purposes of determining whether an agreement can be  reached through a filing of an amended pleading that would resolve the  objections to be raised in the demurrer. (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 430.41, 435.5.)  The Court notes that Defendant has complied with the meet and confer  requirement. (See Tynan Decl., ¶¶4-8.) DISCUSSION I.  Demurrer             a. Fraudulent Concealment                         1.  Specificity  Defendant argues that Plaintiff has failed  to plead specific, individualized facts to support a legal duty as required.  However, the rule of specificity “is  intended to apply to affirmative misrepresentations.” (Alfaro v. Community  Housing Improvement System & Planning Assn., Inc. (2009) 171  Cal.App.4th 1356, 1384.) “[I]t is harder to apply this rule to a case of simple  nondisclosure. How does one show ‘how’ and ‘by what means’ something  didn't happen, or ‘when’ it never happened, or ‘where’ it never happened?” (Ibid.)  Plaintiff cannot provide specific details on nonexistent statements. For  pleading purposes, Plaintiff has sufficiently alleged that Defendants had a  duty to disclose the hazardous nature of their stone products but failed to do  so, thereby inducing Plaintiff to purchase and/or use Defendants’ products,  leading to his injuries at issue in this case. (FAC ¶¶1219-1227.) 2. Special Relationship “There are four  circumstances in which nondisclosure or concealment may constitute actionable  fraud: (1) when the defendant is in a fiduciary relationship with the  plaintiff; (2) when the defendant had exclusive knowledge of material facts not  known to the plaintiff; (3) when the defendant actively conceals a material  fact from the plaintiff; and (4) when the defendant makes partial  representations but also suppresses some material facts.” (Bigler-Engler v.  Breg, Inc. (2017) 7 Cal.App.5th 276, 311, internal citations omitted.) In  the absence of a fiduciary relationship, the latter three circumstances still “presuppose  the existence of some other relationship between the plaintiff and defendant.”  (Ibid.) “[S]uch a relationship can only come into being as a result of  some sort of transaction between the parties . . . from direct  dealings between the plaintiff and the defendant; it cannot arise between the  defendant and the public at large.” (Id. at pp. 311-312.)     A fraudulent concealment claim is  actionable in toxic exposure cases. (See Jones v. ConocoPhillips Co.  (2011) 198 Cal.App.4th 1187, 1198-1200.) However, Defendant argues that  Plaintiff has failed to allege the requisite special relationship giving rise  to a duty to disclose. The court in Bigler-Engler acknowledged that a  duty to disclose may arise in relationships such as “seller and buyer.” (Bigler-Engler, supra, 7 Cal.App.5th at p. 311.) Here, Plaintiff  alleges that he “purchased and/or received toxic stone products from  Defendants.” (FAC ¶1226.) For pleading purposes, this supports a transactional  relationship between Plaintiff and Defendant. (See also Arnold v. Dow  Chemical Co. (2001) 91 Cal.App.4th 698, 720-21 [privity may exist between  the seller of a hazardous product and the intended ultimate user, even if that  user did not directly purchase the product].) Plaintiff is not merely a member  of the general public. Rather, Plaintiff was exposed to silica as a result of  his occupation, which specifically involved the purchase and/or usage of  silica-contaminated stone from Defendant. Therefore, the FAC sufficiently  alleges a transactional relationship giving rise to a duty to disclose.  In sum, the demurrer to the fourth cause  of action for fraudulent concealment is OVERRULED.      II.  Motion to Strike             a. Punitive Damages             “In an action for the breach of an  obligation not arising from contract, where it is proven by clear and  convincing evidence that the defendant has been guilty of oppression, fraud, or  malice, the plaintiff, in addition to the actual damages, may recover damages  for the sake of example and by way of punishing the defendant.” (Civ. Code, §  3294, subd. (a).) “‘Malice’ means conduct which is intended by the  defendant to cause injury to the plaintiff or despicable conduct which is  carried on by the defendant with a willful and conscious disregard of the  rights or safety of others.” (Id., subd. (c)(1).) “‘Oppression’ means  despicable conduct that subjects a person to cruel and unjust hardship in  conscious disregard of that person’s rights.” (Id., subd. (c)(2).) Fraud  is “intentional misrepresentation, deceit, or concealment of a material fact  known to the defendant with the intention on the part of the defendant of  thereby depriving a person of property or legal rights or otherwise causing  injury.” (Id., subd. (c)(3).)             As discussed above, Plaintiff has  adequately pled the fraudulent concealment claim. Fraud is an independent basis  for punitive damages. Additionally, Plaintiff alleges that Defendant knew of  the hazardous nature of its products for an extended period of time yet  concealed the nature and extent of such hazards. (See, e.g., FAC  ¶¶1175-1176, 1192-1194, 1213-1249, 1266-1270.) Plaintiff also alleges that  Defendant made false and misleading statements in its written materials  regarding the nature and extent of such hazards. (Id.) Even if this did  not constitute fraud, it would constitute a conscious disregard for Plaintiff’s  rights and safety. Therefore, the complaint adequately pleads punitive damages.               b. Additional Products to be  Identified in Discovery             “In the ordinary personal injury  lawsuit, in which the complaint's factual recitations show plainly the  connection between cause and effect, it suffices to plead causation succinctly  and generally.” (Bockrath v. Aldrich Chemical Co. (1999) 21 Cal.4th 71,  78.) “But when, by contrast, the pleaded facts of negligence and injury do not  naturally give rise to an inference of causation, the plaintiff must plead  specific facts affording an inference the one caused the others.” (Ibid.)  The facts must show that “the defective products supplied by the defendant were  a substantial factor in bringing about his or her injury.” (Id. at p.  79.) In order for a complaint to satisfy the substantial factor test in a toxic  exposure case, the plaintiff must plead the following:  (1) he was exposed to each of the toxic  materials claimed to have caused a specific illness; (2) he must identify each product that  allegedly caused the injury; (3) he must allege that as a result of the  exposure, the toxins entered his body; (4) he must allege that he suffers from a  specific illness, and that each toxin that entered his body was a substantial  factor in bringing about, prolonging, or aggravating that illness; and (5) he must allege  that each toxin he absorbed was manufactured or supplied by a named defendant.  (Id.  at p. 80.) These facts must be pled “in ordinary and concise language” and may  be pled “in a conclusory fashion if [the plaintiff’s] knowledge of the precise  cause of injury is limited.” (Ibid.) Defendant seeks to strike the phrase “and  other silica-containing stone products to be identified during the course of  discovery.” (FAC ¶171 at 56:26.) Defendant argues that this is insufficient to  meet the standard for toxic tort pleading set forth in Bockrath. The Court  agrees. The heightened standard under Bockrath requires Plaintiff to “identify  each product that allegedly caused the injury.” (Bockrath, supra, 21  Cal.4th at p. 80.) As such, the catchall allegation set forth in the FAC would  allow Plaintiff to base liability on numerous unidentified products, thereby  contravening Bockrath. Plaintiff does not address this contention in his  opposition. Therefore, the phrase is stricken.    CONCLUSION             Defendant Cambria Company LLC’s  demurrer is OVERRULED. Defendant’s motion to strike is GRANTED as to the phrase  “and other silica-containing stone products to be identified during the course  of discovery” (FAC ¶171 at 56:26) and DENIED as to punitive damages.        FERNANDO    BARAJAS-SALOMON,                         Plaintiff,             v.   101 GRANITE COUNTERTOP    LLC, et al.,                          Defendants.           Case No.:  24STCV01615   Hearing Date:  June 14, 2024        [TENTATIVE]    order RE: SPECIALLY APPEARING defendant GUIDONI    USA INC.’s MOTION TO QUASH SERVICE OF SUMMONS (CRS# 8192)              BACKGROUND             On January 19, 2024, Plaintiff  Fernando Barajas-Salomon filed this product liability action against various  defendants. Plaintiff filed the operative First Amended Complaint on March 18,  2024, asserting (1) negligence, (2) products liability – failure to warn, (3)  products liability – design defect, (4) fraudulent concealment, (5) breach of  implied warranties, and (6) loss of consortium.              According to the complaint, from  2005 to 2023, Plaintiff worked as a cutter, fabricator and/or installer of  Defendants’ stone products. (FAC ¶¶172-175.) As a result of this work,  Plaintiff came into contact with “inherently hazardous stone products  manufactured, imported, supplied, distributed, contracted, and/or brokered, by  the named Defendants and Does 1-100.” (Id., ¶177.) Specifically,  Plaintiff was “exposed to and inhaled stone dust containing silica and other  toxins and carcinogens.” (Ibid.) Plaintiff allegedly developed lung  disease and is at increased risk of developing other silica-related diseases. (Id.,  ¶178.) Plaintiff alleges that he “has had to receive substantial medical  treatment, including hospitalizations and surgeries, and will require lung  transplantation.” (Id., ¶179.)              On May 16, 2024, Defendant Guidoni  USA Inc.’s filed the instant motion to quash service of summons. On Plaintiff’s  FAC for lack of personal jurisdiction. On June 3, 2024, Plaintiff  Baraja-Salomon filed an opposition. No reply has been filed.  LEGAL STANDARD Under California Code of Civil Procedure  section 418.10, a defendant, on or before the last day of their time to plead  or within any further time that the court may for good cause allow, may serve  and file a notice of motion to quash service of summons on the ground of lack  of jurisdiction over them. (Code Civ. Proc. § 418.10(a)(1).) California law permits a Court to exercise  either “general” or “special” jurisdiction over a foreign entity. (Pavlovich  v. Superior Court (2002) 29 Cal.4th 262, 268-269.) “[A] court may assert general jurisdiction  over foreign (sister-state or foreign-country) corporations to hear any and all  claims against them when their affiliations with the State are so ‘continuous  and systematic’ as to render them essentially at home in the forum State.” (Daimler  AG v. Bauman (2014) 571 U.S. 117, 127 [internal citations omitted],  emphasis added.) In the absence of general jurisdiction, a  court might still exercise specific jurisdiction over a defendant in a given  cause of action, depending on “the ‘ “relationship among the defendant, the  forum, and the litigation.” ’ ” (Helicopteros Nacionales de Colombia v. Hall (1984)  466 U.S. 408, 414.) A court may exercise special jurisdiction when “(1) the  defendant has purposefully availed himself or herself of forum benefits; (2)  the controversy is related to or arises out of the defendant’s contacts with  the forum; and (3) the assertion of personal jurisdiction would comport with  fair play and substantial justice.” (Pavlovich v. Superior Court, supra,  29 Cal. 4th 262, 269, emphasis added.) “When a nonresident defendant challenges  personal jurisdiction the burden shifts to the plaintiff to demonstrate by a  preponderance of the evidence that all necessary jurisdictional criteria are  met. [Citation.] This burden must be met by competent evidence in affidavits  and authenticated documentary evidence. An unverified complaint may not be  considered as an affidavit supplying necessary facts.” (Jewish Defense  Organization, Inc. v. Superior Court (1999) 72 Cal.App.4th 1045,  1054-55.) DISCUSSION I.  Motion to Quash Service of Summons  Defendant Guidoni USA Inc. (“Guidoni”)  argues this Court lacks personal jurisdiction over it because does not conduct  business in California including acquiring any stone products from California,  doing installation or other work in California, and marketing its sales in  California. Furthermore, Guidoni contends neither maintains a physical presence  in California nor own or possess property in California. Similarly, Guidoni  contends it does not have an agent for service of process in California. As  such, Guidoni asserts there are insufficient contacts between it and California  to support a finding of general or specific personal jurisdiction over it. Kallie  Still, who is the General Manager and Assistant Secretary of Guidoni, attests  Guidoni is incorporated in the State of Georgia and has its principal place of  business located there. (Still Decl., ¶5.) Guidoni is only licensed to conduct  business in Georgia and does not have any employees in California. (Id.  at ¶¶6-7.) Moreover, Guidoni imports ornamental rocks such as granite and  quartz from Latin America, then processes them at their factory in Georgia  before selling the products to distributors in Florida, Georgia, Illinois,  Indiana, Massachusetts, New Jersey, Tennessee, Texas, Wisconsin, and Utah. (Id.  at ¶11.)  The burden shifts to Plaintiff to  demonstrate by a preponderance of the evidence that Guidoni has sufficient  contacts with California. Plaintiff responds that Guidoni conducted business in  California by shipping at least 34 containers of its artificial stone products  directly into the Port of Long Beach, as recently as October 27, 2022. (Metzger  Decl., ¶6, Ex. A.) Guidoni provides no response to rebut this contention.  Nevertheless, Plaintiff fails to show Guidoni’s shipment of the 34 containers  to Long Beach constitute continuous and systematic contacts necessary for  general personal jurisdiction because it is evidence of only one day. Likewise,  Plaintiffs fails to show that Guidoni purposefully availed itself of  California’s benefits. As discussed above, one shipment of 34 containers does  not establish intentionality on part of Guidoni to avail itself to the benefits  of California but appears to be the result of “random, fortuitous, or  attenuated contacts.” (Pavlovich v. Superior Court (2002) 29  Cal.4th 262, 269 [internal quotations omitted].) Furthermore, Plaintiff’s  contention that Guidoni was properly served with process does not support  exercising personal jurisdiction over Guidoni because his agent for service of  process was not served while present in California. (Opp. at 6:12-16.) Additionally,  Plaintiff fails to present any evidence showing that his injuries in this  action are related to or arise out the October 27, 2022 shipment. Lastly,  Plaintiff submits no evidence to support asserting personal jurisdiction over  Guidoni on the basis of one shipment would comport with fair play and  substantial justice.  CONCLUSION             Defendant Guidoni USA Inc.’s motion  to quash service of summons is GRANTED.   