  Case Number:  23STCV09930    Hearing Date:   June 14, 2024    Dept:  32 


 
ALEXANDER
  KHAZAI,
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
 
SAMMY ZABLEN, et al. 
                        Defendants.
  


 
  Case No.: 23STCV09930
  Hearing Date: June 14, 2024
 
   [TENTATIVE]
  order RE:
(1)   Demurrer to first amended complaint
(2)   Motion to strike portions of the first
  amended complaint




 


 



BACKGROUND
            On
May 3, 2023, Plaintiff Alexander Khazai filed this action against numerous
Defendants, asserting 16 causes of action.
On
January 11, 2024, Plaintiff filed the operative First Amended Complaint (FAC)
against Sammy Zablen, and Sammy’s Warehouse (“Sammy’s”; collectively with
Zablen, “Zablen Parties”), among others, alleging four causes of action for:
(1) breach of written contract, (2) breach of oral contract, (3) fraudulent
inducement and promissory fraud, and (4) accounting. 
The
FAC alleges that using his connections, Plaintiff provided services to
Defendants as a broker, partner and facilitator in the purchase and sale of an
estimated $500 million worth of masks during the COVID-19 outbreak of 2020.
(FAC, ¶ 1.) 
 
The
FAC further alleges that the Zablen Parties convinced Plaintiff to invest his
life savings in their joint enterprise, and that Plaintiff provided $100,000 in
seed capital to purchase the initial supply of masks. (Id., ¶¶ 4-5.)
Plaintiff
claims that the Zablen Parties orally promised to pay Plaintiff commissions on
mask sales to Plaintiff’s contacts and customers and any sales worked on by
Plaintiff. (Id., ¶ 7.) However, Plaintiff alleges that after many months of
work by Plaintiff, the Zablen Parties only paid Plaintiff $2,000,
notwithstanding Plaintiff’s $100,000 investment and all of the deals that were
consummated using Plaintiff’s contacts and services. (Id., ¶ 8.)
 
In
addition, the FAC alleges that the Zablen Parties agreed in writing that they
would not circumvent Plaintiff in any deals Plaintiff worked on or
consummated.  (Id., ¶ 11; Exh. A.) The
Zablen Parties intentionally circumvented Plaintiff by contacting and
transacting business with Plaintiff’s customers without the knowledge of
Plaintiff and cutting him out of financial rewards he earned. (Id., ¶ 12.) Further,
the FAC alleges that the Zablen Parties interfered with Plaintiff’s business
relationships by telling Sammy’s Warehouse salespeople not to discuss with
Plaintiff the deals they were working on. (Id.)
 
On
May 13, 2024, Defendant Sammy’s Warehouse filed a demurrer with motion to
strike. On June 3, 2024, Plaintiff filed an opposition. On June 7, 2024,
Defendant filed a reply.
 
DEMURRER
A.   
Legal Standard
 
A
demurrer for sufficiency tests whether the complaint states a cause of action.¿
(Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747.)¿When considering
demurrers, courts read the allegations liberally and in context.¿ (Wilson v.
Transit Authority of City of Sacramento (1962) 199 Cal.App.2d 716,
720-21.)¿In a demurrer proceeding, the defects must be apparent on the face of
the pleading or via proper judicial notice.¿(Donabedian v. Mercury Ins. Co.
(2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994.)¿“A demurrer tests the pleading alone, and not
on the evidence or facts alleged.” (E-Fab, Inc. v. Accountants, Inc.
Servs. (2007) 153 Cal.App.4th 1308, 1315.) As such, the court assumes the
truth of the complaint’s properly pleaded or implied factual allegations. (Id.)
The only issue a demurrer is concerned with is whether the complaint, as it
stands, states a cause of action. (Hahn, supra, 147 Cal.App.4th at
747.) 
 
B.   
Discussion
 
Defendant
demurs to Plaintiff’s first through fourth causes of action, arguing they fail
to state sufficient facts.
 
1.     First Cause of Action (Breach of
Written Contract)
      The elements for a
breach of contract cause of action are: (1) the contract; (2) plaintiff’s
performance or excuse for nonperformance; (3) defendant’s breach; and (4)
resulting damages.¿ (Reichert v. General Ins. Co.¿(1968) 68 Cal.2d 822,
830;¿Hale v. Sharp Healthcare¿(2010) 183 Cal.App.4th 1373, 1387.)
Although a written contract is usually pleaded by alleging its making and
attaching a copy which is incorporated by reference, a written contract can
also be pleaded by alleging the making and the substance of the relevant terms.
(Construction Protective Services, Inc. v. TIG Specialty Ins. Co. (2002)
29 Cal.4th 189, 198-199; Perry v. Robertson (1988) 201
Cal.App.3d 333, 341.)
 
Defendant
contends that Plaintiff references the Non-Disclosure/Non-Circumvention
Agreement as the “valid and binding contract” upon which the claim is based,
but he does not specifically allege the material terms of that agreement that
address Defendant’s alleged obligation to pay commissions to Plaintiff. 
 
However,
the FAC alleges that Defendant and Plaintiff agreed in writing that Defendant
would not circumvent Plaintiff in any deals Plaintiff worked on or
consummated.  (FAC., ¶ 11; Exh. A.) The
written contract is not based upon the alleged failure to pay commissions.
Further, Defendant contends that Plaintiff has not pled the key terms of the
contract, but Plaintiff has attached the contract to the FAC. (FAC, Exh. A.)
 
Next,
Plaintiff has pled his own performance by alleging he “did all of the material
things he was required to do including, but not limited to, providing Sammy’s
Warehouse/Zablen Parties with $100,000 in seed money.” (FAC, ¶ 37.) 
 
Plaintiff
has also pled that Defendant breached the contract by circumventing Plaintiff
by contacting and transacting business with Plaintiff’s customers without the
knowledge of Plaintiff and cutting him out of financial rewards he earned.
(Id., ¶ 12.) Further, the FAC alleges that the Zablen Parties interfered with
Plaintiff’s business relationships by telling Sammy’s Warehouse salespeople not
to discuss with Plaintiff the deals they were working on. (Id.)
 
Lastly,
the FAC sufficiently alleges that Defendant’s breach caused Plaintiff damages
in that he had initially invested his life savings of $100,000 for only a
fraction of what was promised to him orally, due to Defendant’s circumventing
Plaintiff in deals so that they did not have to pay him commissions. (FAC, ¶¶
4, 7, 8, 12.)
 
As
a result, the demurrer to the first cause of action for breach of written
contract is overruled.
2. Second Cause of Action (Breach
of Oral Contract and De Facto Partnership)
The
elements of a breach of oral contract claim are the same as those for a breach
of written contract: (1) a contract; (2) its performance or excuse for
nonperformance; (3) breach; and (4) damages.  (Stockton Mortgage, Inc.
v. Tope (2014) 233 Cal.App.4th 437, 453.) An oral
contract may be pleaded generally as to its effect, because alleging the exact
words is rarely possible. (Scolinos v Kolts (1995) 37 Cal.App.4th 635,
640-641.) 
 
Plaintiff
sufficiently alleged that the Zablen Parties orally promised to pay Plaintiff
commissions on mask sales to Plaintiff’s contacts and customers and any sales
worked on by Plaintiff. (Id., ¶ 7.) As noted above, Plaintiff has sufficiently pled
his own performance by alleging he “did all of the material things he was
required to do including, but not limited to, providing Sammy’s
Warehouse/Zablen Parties with $100,000 in seed money.” (FAC, ¶ 37.) 
 
As
for breach, Plaintiff sufficiently alleges that after many months of work by
Plaintiff, the Zablen Parties only paid Plaintiff $2,000, notwithstanding
Plaintiff’s $100,000 investment and all of the deals that were consummated
using Plaintiff’s contacts and services. (Id., ¶ 8.)
 
The
demurrer to the second cause of action is therefore overruled.
3.
Third Cause of Action (Fraudulent Inducement and Promissory Fraud)
The
elements of fraud are: “(a) misrepresentation (false representation,
concealment, or nondisclosure); (b) knowledge of falsity (or ‘scienter’); (c)
intent to defraud, i.e., to induce reliance; (d) justifiable reliance; and (e)
resulting damage.” (Charnay v. Cobert (2006) 145 Cal.App.4th 170, 184.)
“Fraud must be pleaded with specificity rather than with ‘“‘general and
conclusory allegations.’”’ (Small v. Fritz Companies, Inc. (2003) 30
Cal.4th 167, 184.) The specificity requirement means a plaintiff must allege
facts showing how, when, where, to whom, and by what means the representations
were made, and, in the case of a corporate defendant, the plaintiff must allege
the names of the persons who made the representations, their authority to speak
on behalf of the corporation, to whom they spoke, what they said or wrote, and
when the representation was made. (Lazar v. Superior Court (1996) 12
Cal.4th 631, 645; West v. JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. (2013) 214
Cal.App.4th 780, 793.) 
 “The facts essential to the
statement of a cause of action in fraud or deceit based on a promise made
without any intention of performing it are: (1) a promise made regarding a
material fact without any intention of performing it; (2) the existence of the
intent at the time of making the promise; (3) the promise was made with intent
to deceive or with intent to induce the party to whom it was made to enter into
the transaction; (4) the promise was relied on by the party to whom it was
made; (5) the party making the promise did not perform; (6) the party to whom
the promise was made was injured.” (Regus v. Schartkoff (1957) 156 Cal.App.2d 382, 389.) 
The court agrees with Defendant
that the allegations are not specifically pled.
Plaintiff
only alleges that Zablen promised (i) that he would pay Plaintiff commissions;
(ii) that he would not circumvent plaintiff and cut him out of deals he
participated in; (iii) that he would not transact business with the individuals
and or business entities introduced by Plaintiff or worked on by Plaintiff or
any deals whose Plaintiff’s seed money was used without paying a commission;
and (iv) that commissions would be paid.” (FAC, ¶ 50.) 
The
FAC further alleges that “when Zablen made these promises to Plaintiff, he had
no intention of performing them. Instead, Zablen intended and planned to trick
Plaintiff into introducing his contacts (individuals and businesses) to Zablen
and then intentionally cut him out and developed a customer base and thereafter
directly contacted and transacted business with these customers and without
paying Plaintiff commissions. At a meeting in 2020, shortly after their initial
launch of their joint enterprise, Zablen denied the need to put the oral
agreements about the commissions in writing, and reassured Plaintiff, “Don’t
worry, I’ve got your back.” (Id., ¶ 51.)
Plaintiff
has failed to allege how these alleged false promises were made, when, where,
and by what means. The allegations as to each element of fraud are conclusory
and general and therefore are not sufficient to withstand demurrer. 
As
a result, the demurrer to the third cause of action is sustained. 
The
burden is on the complainant to show the Court that a pleading can be amended
successfully. (Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311, 318.) Plaintiff seeks leave to amend
but has failed to show how the complaint can be amended successfully. As such,
leave to amend is denied.
4.
Fourth Cause of Action (Accounting) 
“A
cause of action for an accounting requires a showing that a relationship exists
between the plaintiff and defendant that requires an accounting, and that some
balance is due the plaintiff that can only be ascertained by an accounting.” (Teselle
v. McLoughlin (2009) 173 Cal.App.4th 156, 179.) 
The
alleged arrangement between Plaintiff and Defendant, discussed above,
constitutes a relationship involving a balance owed which requires an
accounting to determine. Therefore, the FAC properly pleads a claim for
accounting. 
C.     Conclusion
 
Based on the foregoing, Defendant’s demurrer is
SUSTAINED in part and
OVERRULED
in part. It is overruled as to the first, second, and fourth causes of action,
but sustained without leave to amend as to the third cause of action.
 
MOTION TO STRIKE
 
A.    Legal Standard
 
Any
party, within the time allowed to respond to a pleading, may serve and file a
motion to strike the whole or any part thereof – i.e., even single words or
phrases. (Code. Civ. Proc. § 435(b)(1); Warren v. Atchison, Topeka &
Santa Fe Ry. Co. (1971) 19 Cal App.3d 24, 40.) A motion to strike lies
either: (1) to strike any “irrelevant, false or improper matter inserted in any
pleading”; and/or (2) to strike any pleading or part thereof “not drawn or
filed in conformity with the laws of this state, a court rule or order of
court.” (Code. Civ. Proc. § 436; Ferraro v. Camarlinghi (2008) 161
Cal.App.4th 509, 528.) As with demurrers, the grounds for a motion to strike
must appear on the face of the pleading, or from any matter which the court may
judicially notice. (Code Civ. Proc. § 437.) 
 
B.    Discussion
 
Defendant also moves to strike allegations relating
to punitive damages and the claim under the Independent Wholesale Sales
Representatives Contractual Relations Act from the FAC.
1.
Punitive Damages
To support a claim for punitive damages, a plaintiff
must allege facts and circumstances showing conduct constituting malice, fraud
or oppression.¿(Grieves v. Superior Court¿(1984) 157 Cal. App. 3d 159,
166.) The predicate acts to support a claim for punitive damages must be
intended to cause injury or must constitute “malicious conduct,” defined as
“despicable conduct” carried on by Defendant with a willful and conscious disregard
of the rights of others. (Code Civ. Proc. § 3294(a).) Oppressive conduct is defined
as “despicable conduct” that subjects a person to cruel and unjust hardship in
conscious disregard of a person’s rights. (Code Civ. Proc. §
3294(c).)¿¿Plaintiff must allege facts demonstrating that “the defendant acted
in such an outrageous and reprehensible manner that the jury could infer that
he knowingly disregarded the substantial certainty of injury to others." (Dawes
v. Superior Court (1980) 111 Cal. App. 3d 82, 90.) Moreover, a claim for
punitive damages cannot be pleaded generally and allegations that a defendant
acted "with oppression, fraud and malice" toward plaintiff are
insufficient legal conclusions to show that the plaintiff is entitled to an
award of punitive damages. (Brousseau v. Jarrett (1977) 73 Cal.App.3d
864, 872.) Rather, specific factual allegations are required to support a claim
for punitive damages. (Id.)
 
 Further, in order to state a claim for
punitive damages against an employer based upon the acts of the employees, the
plaintiff must plead that “the employer had advance knowledge of the unfitness
of the employee and employed him or her with a conscious disregard of the
rights or safety of others or authorized or ratified the wrongful conduct for
which the damages are awarded or was personally guilty of oppression, fraud,
or malice.  With respect to a
corporate employer, the advance knowledge and conscious disregard,
authorization, ratification or act of oppression, fraud, or malice must be on
the part of an officer, director, or managing agent of the corporation.”  (Civ. Code § 3294(b).)
 
Because
Plaintiff has failed to plead fraudulent conduct, the Court concludes that the
complaint fails to state a claim for punitive damages. There are no other
allegations that would show malice or fraud. 
 
Therefore,
the motion to strike is granted as to punitive damages. As discussed above,
Plaintiff has not shown how the pleading can be successfully amended and thus,
leave to amend is denied.
            2.
Independent Wholesale Sales Representatives
Contractual Relations Act
“A manufacturer, jobber, or
distributor who willfully fails to enter into a written contract as required by
this chapter or willfully fails to pay commissions as provided in the written
contract shall be liable to the sales representative in a civil action for
treble the damages proved at trial.” (Civ. Code, § 1738.15.) 
 
Civil Code section 1738.12
provides express definitions for “manufacturer,” “jobber,” and “distributor.”
The commonality among all three definitions is that manufacturers, jobbers, and
distributors all deal in “products” “intended for resale to, or use by, the
consumers of this state.” The “wholesale sales representative” is the person
who contracts with these manufacturers, jobbers, or distributors for the
purpose of soliciting wholesale orders, “but shall not include one who places
orders or purchases exclusively for his own account for resale and shall not
include one who sells or takes orders for the direct sale of products to the
ultimate consumer.” (Civ. Code, § 1738.12, subd. (e).) 
The allegations in the FAC are sufficient
to show that Plaintiff solicited wholesale orders of masks and did not sell to
the ultimate consumer. (FAC, ¶¶ 2, 7, 25, 31.) 
Next, the allegations in the FAC are
sufficient to show that Defendant Sammy’s qualifies as a “jobber.” A jobber, at
minimum, purchases the products intended for resale. (Civ. Code, § 1738.12,
subd. (b).) The FAC alleges that Sammy’s Warehouse was involved in “the
business of procuring [masks] and the sale of other goods.” (FAC, ¶ 15.) 
Defendant contends, among
other things, that there are no specific allegations that Plaintiff contracted
with Defendant for the purpose of soliciting wholesale orders. However, the
applicability of this claim is supported by the allegations in the FAC. When
reading the allegations in the FAC as a whole and in context, the reference to
this claim is not irrelevant, improper matter, or not drawn in conformity with
California law. (Turman v. Turning Point of Central California, Inc. (2010)
191 Cal.App.4th 53, 63 [“judges read allegations of a pleading subject to a
motion to strike as a whole, all parts in their context, and assume their
truth”].)  Whether Plaintiff contracted
for the purpose of soliciting wholesale orders is a factual question that
cannot be resolved at this early stage of the proceedings.
B.
Conclusion
Defendant’s motion to strike is granted in
part and denied in part. It is granted as to punitive damages without leave to
amend, but denied as to the claim under the Independent Wholesale Sales
Representatives Contractual Relations Act.
 