 Case Number:  23STCV05876    Hearing Date:   September 5, 2024    Dept:  29 Mirman v. Okkes
23STCV05876
Defendant’s Motion to Quash Service of Summons
TENTATIVE
 
The Motion to
Quash is DENIED.
 
BACKGROUND 
 
On March 16, 2023,
Linda Mirman, Jacob Mirman, Miriam Alter, and Rochel Gershenfeld (collectively
“Plaintiffs”) filed a complaint against Onen Okkes (“Okkes”) and Does 1 through
10 for motor vehicle negligence and general negligence arising out of an
accident in which, Plaintiffs allege, a vehicle struck and killed a pedestrian,
Julian Mirman (husband and father of Plaintiffs).
 
On October 16,
2023, Plaintiffs amended the complaint to name Roy Bahamam (“Bahamam”) as Doe 1,
City of Los Angeles as Doe 2, The Los Angeles Department of Water and Power as
Doe 3, County of Los Angeles (“County”) as Doe 4, and State of California (“State”)
as Doe 5.
 
On February 14, 2024, City of Los Angeles
and City of Los Angeles acting by and through the Los Angeles Department of
Water and Power (collectively “City”) filed an answer and cross-complaint
against Okkes, Bahamam, and Roes 1 through 10.
 
On February 29, 2024, Plaintiffs amended
the complaint to name Uber Technologies, Inc. (“Uber”) as Doe 7, Rasier, LLC (“Rasier”)
as Doe 7, and Rasier-CA, LLC (“Rasier-CA”) as Doe 8.  On the same day, Plaintiffs also filed a First
Amended Complaint (“FAC”).
 
On April 10, 2024, City filed an answer to
the FAC.
 
On May 6, 2024, Bahamam filed an answer to
the FAC and an answer to City’s cross-complaint.  Bahamam also filed a cross-complaint against
City, County, and Roes 1 through 25.
 
On May 24, 2024, Uber, Rasier, and Rasier-CA,
each filed an answer to the FAC.
 
On May 29, 2024, City filed its answer to
Bahamam’s cross-complaint.
 
On June 18, 2024, State filed an answer to
the FAC.
 
On July 29, 2024, Okkes filed this motion
to quash service of summons and complaint. On August 22, Plaintiffs filed an
opposition to the motion and objections to some of the evidence submitted by
Okkes. On August 28, Okkes filed a reply and a response to Plaintiffs’
objections. 
 
LEGAL STANDARD 
Code of Civil Procedure section 415.10
provides the requirements of personal service of summons and the complaint as
follows: 
“A summons may be served by personal delivery
of a copy of the summons and of the complaint to the person to be served.
Service of a summons in this manner is deemed complete at the time of such
delivery.  The date upon which personal
delivery is made shall be entered on or affixed to the face of the copy of the
summons at the time of its delivery. However, service of a summons without such
date shall be valid and effective.”
(Code Civ. Proc., § 415.10.)
Code of Civil Procedure section 415.20
governs substituted service.  Subdivision
(a) applies to substituted service at an office or usual mailing address.  Subdivision (b) applies to substituted
service at a person’s residence and provides, in part:
“If
a copy of the summons and complaint cannot with reasonable diligence be
personally delivered to the person to be served … a summons may be served by
leaving a copy of the summons and complaint at the person’s dwelling house,
usual place of abode, usual place of business, or usual mailing address other
than a United States Postal Service post office box, in the presence of a
competent member of the household or a person apparently in charge of his or
her office, place of business, or usual mailing address other than a United
States Postal Service post office box, at least 18 years of age, who shall be
informed of the contents thereof, and by thereafter mailing a copy of the
summons and of the complaint by first-class mail, postage prepaid to the person
to be served at the place where a copy of the summons and complaint were left.
Service of a summons in this manner is deemed complete on the 10th day after
the mailing.
(Code Civ. Proc., § 415.20, subd. (b).)
“When a defendant challenges the court’s
personal jurisdiction on the ground of improper service of process ‘the burden
is on the plaintiff to prove the existence of jurisdiction by proving, inter
alia, the facts requisite to an effective service.’”  (Summers v. McClanahan (2006) 140
Cal.App.4th 403, 413.) Although the filing of a proof of service by a
registered process server creates a rebuttable presumption that service was
proper (see Evid. Code § 647), that presumption may be impeached by contrary
evidence submitted by a defendant. (See, e.g., Fernandes v. Singh (2017)
16 Cal.App.5th 932, 941 n.6.)  
In ruling on a motion to quash service of
summons, the trial judge acts as the finder of fact and can resolve any
conflicts in the evidence.  (Kroopf v.
Guffey (1986) 183 Cal.App.3d 1351, 1356.)
If service of summons is not properly and
validly effectuated by one or more of the approved methods, California courts
lack personal jurisdiction over the defendants, and any judicial actions taken
without such service violates principles of fundamental due process and is
therefore void. (Cnty. of San Diego v. Gorham (2010) 186 Cal.App.4th
1215, 1231.)
OBJECTIONS TO EVIDENCE
Plaintiffs assert four objections to the declaration
of Mr. Aslan.
The fourth objection, to the sentence
beginning, “By the time that they left the papers,” is SUSTAINED, as the statement
lacks foundation in personal knowledge.
The other objections are OVERRULED.
DISCUSSION 
 
The proof of service filed with the Court
(on March 27, 2023) states that Defendant Okkes was served with the summons and
complaint by substituted service at Okkes’s residence at 1246 North Farmosa [Formosa]
Avenue by (1) delivering a copy to “Nasim N. Roomate” at that address on
March 22, 2023 and (2) mailing a copy the next day, March 23, to Okkes at that same
address.  The proof of service and declaration
of due diligence are signed by Robert Arceo, a registered process server. 
 
Okkes moves to quash service of the summons.  In the moving papers, Okkes makes one
argument: that the evidence shows that he had moved out of the residence at
1246 North Formosa prior to service. 
(Motion, at pp. 5-6.)  The only
evidence that Okkes presents is a declaration from his roommate, Mr. Nazim
Aslan.  Mr. Aslan states, in part:
 
“On March 22, 2023, I was residing at 1246
N. Formosa Av. In Los Angeles with my roommate Onen Okkes.  Mr. Okkes moved in February of 2023 and he
moved out on March the 20th approximately. 
[¶]  No one came to serve him and
I did not speak to any process server.  I
never accepted service on his behalf. 
Someone came to my house and just left the papers at the door.”
 
(Aslan Decl.)  
 
In their opposition, Plaintiffs present a further
declaration from the registered process server, Mr. Robert Arceo.  Mr. Arceo states that on March 22, 2023, he
did speak to an adult male who identified himself as “Nasim” while attempting
to serve Defendant Okkes at 1246 North Formosa. 
(Arceo Decl., ¶ 5.)  “Nasim” confirmed
that Defendant Okkes resided at the address, that Defendant Okkes was not home,
and that they were “roommates” and “confidants.”  (Id., ¶¶ 6-7.)  Mr. Arceo left the summons and complaint with
“Nasim” and explained the contents of the documents to him.  (Id., ¶ 8.) 
 
Where, as here, there is a conflict in the
evidence on a motion to quash service of summons, the trial court acts as the
finder of fact.
 
The Court has considered the evidence in
the record submitted by each side.  The
Court finds that declaration of Mr. Arceo to be credible and finds the
declaration of Mr. Aslan to be not credible. 
Among other things, Mr. Aslan contradicts himself, stating in one
sentence that he and Defendant Okkes were roommates as of March 22, 2023, and then
in the very next sentence stating that Defendant Okkes had moved out on “approximately”
March 20.  Moreover, Mr. Aslan denies having
any conversation at all with the process server – which raises the question of
how Mr. Arceo, the process server, knew what Mr. Aslan’s first name was.
 
Moreover, and independently, the Court
notes that Defendant Okkes does not present his own declaration, under oath,
stating when he moved out of the residence he shared with Mr. Aslan.  (Evid. Code, § 412.)   
 
Accordingly, the Court credits and accepts
the declaration of Mr. Arceo.  The Court
does not credit the statement in Mr. Aslan’s declaration that Defendant Okkes
had moved out of the residence at 1246 North Formosa on “approximately” March
20, 2023.  As a result, the Court rejects
the argument of Defendant Okkes that the substitute service was invalid because
he was no longer residing at 1246 North Formosa at the time of service.
 
Finally, the Court notes that Defendant
Okkes raises a new argument for the first time on reply that there was not
sufficient diligence to support valid substitute service.  As this argument was not raised in the moving
papers, the Court deems it as waived.
 
For the reasons set forth above, the motion
is denied.
 
CONCLUSION
 
The Court DENIES Specially Appearing Defendant Onen Okkes’s
motion to quash service of the summons.
 
Plaintiffs are
ordered to give notice.
 