 Case Number:  21STCV08010    Hearing Date:   September 5, 2024    Dept:  29 Savarese v. Costco Wholesale Corporation
21STCV08010
Defendant’s Motion to Continue Trial
Tentative
The motion is GRANTED in part.
Background
On March
1, 2021, Patricia Saverese (“Plaintiff”) filed a complaint against Costco
Wholesale Corporation (“Defendant”) and Does 1 through 100 for general
negligence and premises liability arising out of a slip and fall on March 1,
2019.  On April 14, 2022, Plaintiff filed
the First Amended Complaint (“FAC”) against the same defendants.  On October 24, 2022, Plaintiff filed the Second
Amended Complaint (“SAC”) against the same defendants.
On
December 2, 2022, Defendant filed an answer to the SAC.
On
filing, the case was assigned a trial date of August 30, 2022.  On the stipulation of the parties submitted in
July 2022, trial was continued to September 14, 2023.  On the unopposed ex parte application of
Defendant in August 2023, trial was continued to April 9, 2024.  On the stipulation of the parties in February
2024, trial was continued to September 9, 2024, with all discovery deadlines
reset based on the new trial date.
On August 9, 2024, Defendant filed a motion to continue
this matter. Plaintiff filed an opposition in part on August 22.  Defendant has not filed a reply.
Legal Standard
Code of Civil Procedure section 128,
subdivision (a)(8), provides that the court has the power to amend and control
its process and orders so as to make them conform to law and justice. “The
power to determine when a continuance should be granted is within the
discretion of the trial court.” (Color-Vue, Inc. v. Abrams (1996) 44
Cal.App.4th 1599, 1603.) “A trial court has wide latitude in the matter of
calendar control including the granting or denying of continuances.” (Park
Motors, Inc. v. Cozens (1975) 49 Cal.App.3d 12, 18.)  
“To ensure the prompt disposition of civil
cases, the dates assigned for trial are firm. 
All parties and their counsel must regard the date set for trial as
certain.”  (Cal. Rules of Court, rule
3.1332(a).)
“Although continuances of trials are
disfavored, each request for a continuance must be considered on its own
merits.”  (Cal. Rules of Court, rule
3.1332(c).)  “The court may grant a
continuance only on an affirmative showing of good cause requiring the
continuance.”  (Ibid.)  Circumstances that may support a finding of
good cause include:  
“(1) The
unavailability of an essential lay or expert witness because of death, illness,
or other excusable circumstances;  
(2) The
unavailability of a party because of death, illness, or other excusable
circumstances;  
(3) The
unavailability of trial counsel because of death, illness, or other excusable
circumstances;  
(4) The
substitution of trial counsel, but only where there is an affirmative showing
that the substitution is required in the interests of justice;  
(5) The addition
of a new party if: (A) The new party has not had a reasonable opportunity to
conduct discovery and prepare for trial; or (B) The other parties have not had
a reasonable opportunity to conduct discovery and prepare for trial in regard
to the new party's involvement in the case; 

(6) A party's
excused inability to obtain essential testimony, documents, or other material
evidence despite diligent efforts; or  
(7) A
significant, unanticipated change in the status of the case as a result of
which the case is not ready for trial.”  
(Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1332(c).)  
“In ruling on a motion or application for
continuance, the court must consider all the facts and circumstances that are
relevant to the determination.”  (Cal.
Rules of Court, rule 3.1332(d).)  California
Rules of Court, rule 3.1332(d) sets forth a non-exhaustive list of factors that
the court may consider:  
“(1) The
proximity of the trial date;  
(2) Whether
there was any previous continuance, extension of time, or delay of trial due to
any party;  
(3) The length
of the continuance requested;  
(4) The
availability of alternative means to address the problem that gave rise to the
motion or application for a continuance; 

(5) The
prejudice that parties or witnesses will suffer as a result of the continuance;

(6) If the case
is entitled to a preferential trial setting, the reasons for that status and
whether the need for a continuance outweighs the need to avoid delay; 
(7) The court's
calendar and the impact of granting a continuance on other pending trials; 
(8) Whether
trial counsel is engaged in another trial; 

(9) Whether all
parties have stipulated to a continuance; 

(10) Whether the
interests of justice are best served by a continuance, by the trial of the
matter, or by imposing conditions on the continuance; and  
(11) Any other
fact or circumstance relevant to the fair determination of the motion or application.”  
(Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1332(d).) 
Discussion
Defendant appeared
in this case almost 21 months ago, and trial has already been continued several
times.  Defendant now seeks another
continuance, arguing that certain discovery still needs to be completed, including
the depositions of two nonparty witness apparently aligned with Plaintiff and
the resolution of a dispute regarding x-rays during the medical examination of
Plaintiff.  Despite these reported issues,
however, the Court notes that no motion has been filed with regard to either
nonparty witness or the medical examination.
Plaintiff does not
oppose a brief trial continuance of the trial, as one of her experts is
unavailable for trial as a result of the illness of a family member.  Plaintiff’s counsel states that although
counsel does not intend to call the nonparty witnesses at trial, Plaintiff will
stipulate to producing them for deposition prior to the trial date.  (Karapetian Decl., ¶¶ 10, 12.)  Plaintiff also states that she will agree to
a brief continuance so that the dispute regarding the x-rays can be heard.  (Id., ¶ 13.)
The Court has
considered the evidence and the argument presented by both sides.  The Court finds that good cause has been shown
to continue the trial date for approximately 60 days.  Discovery is closed and will remain closed,
except for (1) the depositions of Delores Savarese and Ani Mikayelyan (and any
related motion practice); and (2) the resolution of the dispute regarding
x-rays at Plaintiff’s medical examination (and any follow up examination). 
Conclusion
The Court GRANTS in part Defendant’s motion
to continue. 
The Court ORDERS that the trial date is
continued for approximately 60 days.  The
Final Status Conference is reset based on the new trial date.  Discovery
is closed and will remain closed, except for (1) the depositions of Delores
Savarese and Ani Mikayelyan (and any related motion practice); and (2) the
resolution of the dispute regarding x-rays at Plaintiff’s medical examination
(and any follow up examination).  As to
this limited discovery (only), all deadlines will be reset based on the new
trial date.
Moving Party is ORDERED to give notice.