  Case Number:  24STCV12559    Hearing Date:   November 12, 2024    Dept:  51 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Upinder S.
Kalra, Department 51
 
HEARING DATE:   November
12, 2024                                        
 
CASE NAME:           Eunbi
Kim v. DOES 1 through 20
 
CASE NO.:                24STCV12559

 
MOTION
FOR LIMITED-EXPEDITED DISCOVERY
 
MOVING PARTY:  Plaintiff
Eunbi Kim
 
RESPONDING PARTY(S): Non-Party Respondent Microsoft
Corporation; Non-Party Meta Platforms, Inc.
 
REQUESTED RELIEF: 
 
1.      An
Order granting leave to engage in limited and expedited discovery against
Non-party Deponents GMX, Google, Inc., Instagram, LLC, Microsoft, Inc., and
Naver, Inc.
TENTATIVE RULING: 
 
1.      Motion
for Limited-Expedited Discovery is GRANTED to the extent Plaintiff may issue third-party
subpoenas.
STATEMENT OF MATERIAL FACTS AND/OR PROCEEDINGS: 
 
On May 20, 2024, Plaintiff Eunbi Kim (Plaintiff) filed a
Complaint against DOES 1 through 20 (Defendants) with four causes of action
for: (1) Invasion of Privacy, (2) Unauthorized Access to Computers in Violation
of California Penal Code § 502, et seq., (3) Conversion, and (4) Declaratory
and Injunctive Relief.
 
According to the Complaint, Plaintiff recently experienced
unauthorized access and password changes to her email and social media
accounts. Plaintiff alleges Defendants hacked her accounts. Plaintiff also
alleges that Defendants broke into Plaintiff’s apartment and stole her personal
belongings.
 
On July 11, 2024, Plaintiff filed the instant motion for
limited-expedited discovery and served it on all non-parties. 
 
On August 6, 2024, Plaintiff moved ex parte to advance the hearing date on the instant motion which
was DENIED.
 
On October 29, 2024, Non-Party Respondent Microsoft
Corporation (Microsoft) filed a timely opposition.
 
On November 5, 2024, Non-Party Respondent Meta Platforms,
Inc. (Meta) filed an untimely opposition.
 
Replies were due on or before November 4, 2024. As of
November 6, 2024, the court has not received replies.
 
LEGAL STANDARD: 
 
“In civil litigation, discovery may be obtained from a
nonparty only through a ‘deposition subpoena.’” (Unzipped Apparel, LLC v. Bader¿(2007) 156 Cal.App.4th 123,
127.)¿“The Civil Discovery Act . . . authorizes a nonparty’s ‘oral deposition,’
‘written deposition,’ and ‘deposition for [the] production of business
records.’ (Ibid.)¿¿ 
 
Deposition notices may be served¿by¿a plaintiff¿without
leave of court 20 days after the “service of the summons on, or appearance by,
any defendant.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.210, subd. (b).)¿“On motion with or
without notice, the court, for good cause shown, may grant to a plaintiff leave
to serve a deposition notice on an earlier date.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.210,
subd. (b).)¿Code of Civil Procedure section 2025.210, subdivision (b)¿applies
to all discovery by deposition, including business records subpoenas to
nonparties. (Cal. Shellfish v. United
Shellfish Co.¿(1997) 56 Cal.App.4th 16, 25 [“We conclude that the
deposition hold in section 2025, subdivision (b)(2) does apply to a deposition
subpoena seeking business records¿. .¿.”].)¿
 
ANALYSIS: 
 
Plaintiff contends the limited discovery is warranted
because it is narrowly tailored to seek relevant information to identify the
DOE Defendants and there is no other source where Plaintiff can obtain this
information. 
 
Microsoft opposes the motion in part. Microsoft opposes to
the extent Plaintiff seeks a court order compelling production of records
before receiving a court order allowing Plaintiff to serve the subpoena. Microsoft
also argues that Plaintiff’s subpoena was defective for multiple reasons so there
is no pending discovery for the court to compel. 
 
Meta argues that Plaintiff improperly issued the subpoena
without leave of court and there is no good cause to issue a compliant subpoena
because Meta has nothing to produce because it has been unable to locate any
valid accounts and Plaintiff appears to have access to these accounts.  
 
Here, no
defendant has been served with the summons, nor has any defendant appeared in
this case. This is because Plaintiff does not know the identity of the Doe
Defendants and seeks, by way of the deposition subpoenas, to discover their
identities. Microsoft does not oppose leave for Plaintiff to issue the
subpoena. Meta, while preferring the court to rule on the merits now, reserves
its right to object to a properly issued subpoena in the future. There is
therefore good cause for Plaintiff to issue the subpoenas.
 
Accordingly,
the court GRANTS Plaintiff’s motion for limited-expedited discovery to issue
the third-party subpoenas only.
 
CONCLUSION:
 
            For
the foregoing reasons, the Court decides the pending motion as follows: 
 
1.      Motion
for Limited-Expedited Discovery is GRANTED to the extent Plaintiff may issue
third-party subpoenas.
Moving party is to give notice. 
 
IT IS SO ORDERED. 
 
Dated:              November 12, 2024                __________________________________                                                                                                                Upinder
S. Kalra
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court
 