 Case Number:  23STCV16797    Hearing Date:   September 12, 2024    Dept:  34 Shirley Brown, individually, and as successor in interest
to her decedent, Glen Brown, by and through her guardian ad litem, et al. v. City
of Los Angeles, et al. (23STCV16797)
 
Defendant Trek Bicycle Corporation’s Amended Application
of Richard A. Schuster to appear as counsel Pro Hac Vice for Defendant
Trek Bicycle Corporation is GRANTED.
BACKGROUND
On August
19, 2024, Plaintiff Shirley Brown, individually, and as successor in interest
to her decedent, Glen Brown, by and through her guardian ad litem, Janet
McCarthy; Janet McCarthy, individually, and as administrator of the Estate of
Glen Brown, on behalf of the Estate of Blen Brown (collectively, “Plaintiffs”) filed
a complaint against Defendants City of Los Angeles, AIDS/Lifecycle; San
Francisco AIDS Foundation; Los Angeles LGBT Center, Trek Bicycle Corporation,
Roth Distributing Co., Inc., Village Cycle & Supply, Inc. (collectively,
the “Defendants”) and DOES 1 to 100 alleging the following:
1.              
Premises Liability;
2.              
Negligence; and,
3.              
Products Liability.
On August
15, 2024, Defendant Trek Bicycle Corporation filed an amended application of Richard
A. Schuster to appear as counsel
pro hac vice for Defendant Trek Bicycle Corporation. 
The Final Status
Conference is scheduled for September 5, 2025 and Trial is scheduled for
September 16, 2025.
Legal
Standard
California
Rule of Court, rule 9.40 provides that an attorney in good standing in another
jurisdiction may apply to appear as counsel pro
hac vice in the State of California by filing a verified application
together with proof of service by mail of a copy of the application and notice
of hearing on all parties who have appeared in the case and on the State Bar of
California at its San Francisco office, with payment of a $50.00 fee, so long
as that attorney is not a resident of the State of California, and is not
regularly engaged in substantial business, professional, or other activities in
the State of California.
The
application must state: (1) the applicant’s residence and office addresses; (2)
the courts to which the applicant has been admitted to practice and the dates
of admission; (3) that the applicant is a member in good standing in those
courts; (4) that the applicant is not currently suspended or disbarred in any
court; (5) the title of each court and cause in which the applicant has filed
an application to appear as counsel pro
hac vice in this state in the preceding two years, the date of each
application, and whether or not it was granted; and (6) the name, address, and
telephone number of the active member of the State Bar of California who is
attorney of record in the local action. 
(Cal. Rules of Court, rule 9.40, subd. (d).)
Discussion
The court
finds that the Application complies with the requirements of Rule 9.40.
The Application
is GRANTED.