 Case Number:  24STCV10248    Hearing Date:   September 12, 2024    Dept:  34 Garcia Navarro v. Mercedes-Benz USA, LLC (24STCV10248)
 
Defendant Mercedes-Benz USA, LLC’s Demurrer to Plaintiff’s Complaint is OVERRULED.
Defendant is ordered to file an Answer within 10 days.
 
Background[1]  
 
Plaintiff Sara M. Garcia
Navarro (“Plaintiff”) alleges as follows: 
 
On or about March 29, 2023, in exchange
for valuable consideration, Plaintiff purchased a 2020 Mercedes-Benz GLA 250 (“Subject
Vehicle”), manufactured and/or distributed by Defendant, with corresponding
Vehicle Identification Number W1NTG4GB5LU029233. Plaintiff received an express
written warranty in which Defendant Mercedes-Benz USA, LLC (“Defendant”)
undertook to preserve or maintain the utility or performance of the Subject Vehicle
or to provide compensation if there is a failure in utility or performance for
a specified period of time. The warranty provided, in relevant part, that in
the event a defect developed with the Subject Vehicle during the warranty
period, Plaintiff could deliver the Subject Vehicle for repair services to a
repair shop and the Subject Vehicle would be repaired. During the warranty
period, the Subject Vehicle contained or developed defects. The defects violate
the express written warranties issued by Defendant, as well as the implied
warranty of merchantability. Plaintiff provided Defendant sufficient
opportunity to service or repair the Subject Vehicle. Defendant was unable
and/or failed to service or repair the Vehicle within a reasonable number of
attempts
 
 
On September 21, 2023,
Plaintiff filed a complaint, asserting causes of action against Defendant and
Does 1-10 for:
 
1.              
Violation of Song-Beverly Act—Civil Code §
1793.2(d)
2.              
Violation of Song-Beverly Act—Civil Code §
1793.2(b)
3.              
Violation of Song-Beverly Act—Civil Code §
1793.2(a)(3)
4.              
Violation of Song-Beverly Act—Civil Code §§ 1791.2(a);
1794
5.              
Violation of Song-Beverly Act—Civil Code §§ 1791.1;
1794
 
A Case Management Conference is set for September 12, 2024.
 
Legal Standard 
 
A
demurrer may be made on the grounds that the pleading, inter alia, does not
state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action and is uncertain. (Code
Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subds. (e) and (f).)
 
When considering demurrers, courts read the allegations liberally and in
context. In a demurrer proceeding, the defects must be apparent on the face of
the pleading or via proper judicial notice. (Donabedian v. Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994.) “A
demurrer tests the pleadings alone and not the evidence or other extrinsic
matters. Therefore, it lies only where the defects appear on the face of the
pleading or are judicially noticed.” (SKF Farms v. Superior Court (1984)
153 Cal.App.3d 902, 905 [citations omitted].) At the pleading stage, a
plaintiff need only allege ultimate facts sufficient to apprise the defendant
of the factual basis for the claim against him. (Semole v. Sansoucie (1972) 28 Cal. App. 3d 714, 721.) “[A] demurrer
does not, however, admit contentions, deductions or conclusions of fact or law
alleged in the pleading, or the construction placed on an instrument pleaded
therein, or facts impossible in law, or allegations contrary to facts of which
a court may take judicial knowledge.” (S.
Shore Land Co. v. Petersen (1964) 226 Cal.App.2d 725, 732
[citations omitted].) 
 
Discussion 
 
Defendant demurs to all causes
of action in Plaintiff’s complaint, on the basis that it fails to state facts
sufficient to constitute a cause of action. Further, Defendant demurs
specifically to the Second Cause of Action on a separate ground that Plaintiff failed
to state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action.
 
Demurrer to Entire Complaint
 
Defendant demurs to the entirety of Plaintiff’s Complaint by
suggesting that she fails to state her causes of action under the Song-Beverly
Consumer Warranty Act as a matter of law because Plaintiff failed to allege
that she purchased a new vehicle. Civil Code section 1793.22(e)(2) defines “new
motor vehicle” as follows:
 
[A] new motor vehicle that is bought or
used primarily for personal, family, or household purposes. ‘New motor vehicle’
also means a new motor vehicle with a gross vehicle weight under 10,000 pounds
that is bought or used primarily for business purposes by a person ... or any
other legal entity, to which not more than five motor vehicles are registered
in this state. ‘New motor vehicle’ includes the chassis, chassis cab, and that
portion of a motor home devoted to its propulsion, ... [and] a dealer-owned vehicle
and a ‘demonstrator’ or other motor vehicle sold with a manufacturer's new car
warranty .... A demonstrator is a vehicle assigned by a dealer for the purpose
of demonstrating qualities and characteristics common to vehicles of the same
or similar model and type.
 
Plaintiff alleges that she
purchased the Subject Vehicle “primarily for personal, family, or household
purposes. (Compl., ¶ 7.) Furthermore, the Complaint states that the Subject
Vehicle was manufactured and/or distributed by Defendant. (Compl. ¶ 5.) In
connection with the purchase, Plaintiff received Defendant’s express written
warranty, in which Defendant undertook to preserve or maintain the utility or
performance of the Subject Vehicle or provide compensation if there is a
failure in utility or performance and, in relevant part, provided that
Plaintiff could deliver the Subject Vehicle to Defendant’s representatives for
repair services in the event that a defect developed with the Subject Vehicle
during the warranty period. (Compl. ¶ 9.) During the warranty period, the Subject
Vehicle contained or developed defects, which substantially impaired the Subject
Vehicle’s use, value, or safety. (Compl. ¶¶ 10-11, 15.) Moreover, despite
affording Defendant’s representatives a reasonable number of attempts to
service or repair the Subject Vehicle, Defendant’s representatives failed to
service and/or repair the Subject Vehicle to conform to the applicable
warranties. (Compl. ¶¶ 13-14.). Plaintiff alleges that Defendant failed to make
available to its authorized service and repair facilities sufficient literature
and replacement parts to effect repairs during the express warranty period and
that he incurred damages as a result (Compl. ¶¶ 30-31.) 
 
Moreover, Defendant’s reliance on Rodriguez
v. FCA US, LLC (2022) 77 Cal.App.5th 209 is unavailing at this time.
The Rodriguez court affirmed the trial court’s order granting summary
judgment. Here, the court’s obligations consist of “testing the sufficiency of
the complaint.” (Childs v. State of California (1983) 144 Cal.App.3d
155, 163.) It has done so and finds that Plaintiff has sufficiently alleged
violations of the Song-Beverly Consumer Warranty Act. Whether or not the Subject
Vehicle was “new” or not will require the court or a fact finder to make factual
determinations. The court will not do so now.
 
The Demurrer on this ground is
OVERRULED.
 
            Second
Cause of Action
 
Defendant’s separate ground for
demurrer focuses exclusively on the Second Cause of Action. Plaintiff’s Second
Cause of Action alleges that Defendant failed to begin repairs within a
reasonable time or to complete them within 30 days. (Calif. Civ. Code §§
1793.2(b) and 1794(a) [emphasis added].). Defendant contends Plaintiff did not “identify
any specific warrant repair presentation.” (Demurrer, at p. 9.) However, a review
of the Complaint demonstrates that Plaintiff presented the Subject Vehicle to
Defendant’s representative for repairs and it “failed to commence the service
or repairs within a reasonable time and failed to service or repair the [Subject]
Vehicle within 30 days. (Compl., ¶ 25.) The court finds such an allegation
sufficient.
 
The Demurrer is OVERRULED.


