  Case Number:  21SMCV01921    Hearing Date:   December 5, 2024    Dept:  I The application to continue the trial is DENIED.  This case has been pending for approximately
three years.  The court’s original FSC
order was given on March 14, 2023.  It
set a mediation completion date of October 15, 2023, and a trial date of June
17, 2024.  In April 2024, the parties
sought a continuance because they had not mediated the case and were not going
to be ready for trial.  On 4/17/24, the
court expressed concern and stated that absent a showing of extraordinary
cause, the trial would likely not be moved, but at a minimum, the court would
want to see a showing of diligence.  On
May 3, 2024, notwithstanding the court’s prior statement, the court continued
the case.  That was due to the parties’
request, but also because the court’s trial calendar was such that the court
was likely to be in trial anyway.  The
court was concerned that the parties stated that the need to continue the case
was in part because discovery had not been completed.
 
The attorney defendants seek to continue the trial
again.  They have changed counsel, and
new counsel—who presumably took the case at some undisclosed point but knowing
of the trial date—are not ready.  They
are still looking over the file to see if there are viable legal issues they
might want to raise.  But far more
troubling, apparently the attorney defendants have still taken no
depositions.  Given that this was the
reason for the last continuance, the need to complete discovery is not
justified; rather it is due to a lack of diligence.  Deciding not to do discovery is not a ground
for a continuance.  If that was the fault
of prior counsel (and the court is not making any findings in that regard),
then it was.  But it nonetheless is a
lack of diligence, not a ground to continue the trial again.  Counsel also suggests mediation is
appropriate.  The court set a mediation
completion date that is over a year ago. 
The court commented on the lack of a mediation back in April.  The fact that the parties have thus far
elected not to mediate is a tactical choice they made; it is no ground to
continue the motion.
 
In short, the moving party has shown no diligence in getting
ready for trial.  That is also concerning
because the court admonished the parties of the need to be proactive back when
the original FSC order was given.  No
grounds have been advanced that would justify continuing the trial.  While the court recognizes that this may make
it harder to defend the case, that is not a ground to continue.  Prejudice resulting from a deliberate choice
is not prejudice.  The motion is
DENIED.  The court expects full compliance
with its FSC order.  If the parties have
not started preparing the FSC documents, they are behind the curve and ought to
start forthwith to avoid sanctions on both the parties and their counsel. 
 
The court notes that it wrote this before reading the
opposition.  The court has now read the
opposition, which confirms the above views.