 Case Number:  24SMCV03476    Hearing Date:   December 5, 2024    Dept:  I The motion to quash is DENIED.   
 
This is a case brought by Priscilla Presley against various
defendants.  She alleges that defendants
engaged in a scheme to separate her from her long-time advisors in an effort to
defraud her out of her money.  The
asserted scheme included the formation of various entities—all of which were
apparently formed under the laws of the State of Florida even though Presley
lives in California.  The Florida
attorney who Presley alleges aided in the plan brought a prior motion to quash,
and that motion was continued to allow for jurisdictional discovery.  Some of the defendants here sued Presley in
Florida—and that was the earlier-filed case. 
Presley brought suit here, however, asserting that she was the victim of
both fraud and elder abuse.  One of the
defendants who assertedly was a major player in the conduct giving rise to the
suit is Fialko, who brings the instant motion to quash for lack of personal
jurisdiction.  He alleges that he is a
resident of Tennessee, not California (or Florida for that matter).  He asserts that his contacts with California
are not pervasive enough to warrant the exercise of general jurisdiction over
him—which is a type of jurisdiction that can be exercised in a California court
as to someone who has such significant ties with the state that it is fair to
sue that person here for anything, whether or not the underlying conduct has
anything to do with the defendant’s presence in California.  Fialko also alleges that there is no special
or specific jurisdiction here—which is jurisdiction that can be exercised where
the defendant has purposefully availed herself or himself of California
benefits and the suit is directly related to those activities and where it
would not offend notions of fair plan and substantial justice to require the
defendant to defend here.  He also claims
that even if California can exercise personal jurisdiction, he was never
actually served because he was in Tennessee at the time he was supposedly
personally served in California.  In the
alternative, Fialko asserts that California should stay its hand in favor of
the Florida action on a forum non conveniens theory.  (In the prior motion to quash, the court
discussed personal jurisdiction law a bit more. 
That discussion is incorporated here by reference.)
 
The court turns first to the easiest question—whether in
fact Fialko was served.  The court has
reviewed the declaration of the private investigator who claims to have served
Fialko.  The investigator describes—in
detail—finding an address for Fialko, going on the internet to get a picture of
Fialko, staking out the residence, seeing Fialko leave and identifying him,
seeing Fialko return, confronting Fialko upon his return (although there was a
gate between them), calling out Fialko by name and not having the person to
whom he called deny it even though that person did respond, and then tossing
the papers over the fence to Fialko (the horizontal distance was small).  That is a lot of detail.  In response, Fialko provides a short
declaration denying that he was here and a redacted credit card bill that
purports to show a purchase in Tennessee. 
As between the two, the investigator is far more credible.  Not only is the level of detail strong, but
unless the investigator is making everything up out of whole cloth, the showing
is compelling that it was indeed Fialko that was served.  In contrast, Fialko provided no detail in his
declaration, and there is no evidence that Fialko is the only one with the
credit card.  The court is well aware
that many credit card accounts have more than one card holder.  There is no way for the court to know whether
the purchases in question were by Fialko or another card holder, for
example.  In short, the court credits the
private investigator.  Fialko was served.
 
But that does not answer the personal jurisdiction
question.  Even proper service does not
cure a lack of jurisdiction.  Plaintiff
notes that Fialko’s relationship to California is deep and meaningful.  Not only does he own property in California,
but he does business here.  Of course,
owning property is not itself enough for there to be general jurisdiction.  But it is a factor.  And here, the property is a residence and
Fialko was apparently there when he was served. 
And he is in California enough to have had a car here at the time.  That says a lot.  But there is more.  Fialko is the owner/member/manager of a
number of business entities.  They are
listed in the opposing papers, although Fialko makes no mention of them in the
motion.  One of them, it turns out,
ceased doing business many years ago, and the court agrees that such an entity
provides no basis for jurisdiction or is a factor to consider.  As to some of the others, Fialko’s only
response (in reply) is that they are organized under Delaware law.  That, of course, is useless to Fialko.  The great majority of businesses are
organized under Delaware law.  Delaware
has made a cottage industry of it and is famous for it.  Nevada is a distant second.  But corporate formation is only a (small)
part of the equation.  Far more important
is where the entity does business. 
Entities formed under Delaware law often do little or no business
there.  So forming an LLC under Delaware
law that does business in California is a factor that could weigh heavily in
terms of finding California jurisdiction. 
Here, there are many such entities and Fialko’s silence on where they do
business speaks volumes.  The one thing
we do know is that they do at least some business here because all of them
filed forms with the California Secretary of State.  And as to many of the businesses, Fialko does
not say where they were formed. 
Plaintiff says that at least three of the businesses have their
principal place of business here and two were formed here, at least according
to IRS documents.  Fialko does not
dispute that.  And in the pertinent
documents, Fialko’s address is in California. 
Further, Fialko is in litigation over the La Jolla property (where he
was served).  In that litigation, he
referred to the home as his “residence.” 
And he has apparently obtained a Home Owner’s Allowance for California
property for purposes of property taxes—something that can only be done for a
residence.  The court believes that this
is more than enough to warrant general jurisdiction over Fialko.  But if it were not, the court finds that there
is likely enough for specific jurisdiction here.  When Fialko met Presley, he stated that he
lived in California (even if it is the case that he no longer does—a finding
this court is not making).  The money
received through the alleged incident came from a California bank account.  And the alleged scheme was directed at a
Californian.  Having said that, if those
last few points were all that there were, the court would be more likely to
continue the matter to allow for jurisdictional discovery than deny the motion
outright.
 
And that brings the court to the FNC issue.  There are some strong arguments favoring
Florida jurisdiction.  There is already a
case pending there, the entities allegedly used to defraud plaintiff were
Florida entities, plaintiff retained a Florida attorney in connection with the
incident, plaintiff traveled to Florida in relation to the alleged fraudulent
scheme, and there is something to be said for one forum rather than two, especially
given that it is not clear that all defendants here will be subject to
California jurisdiction.  And the court
has every reason to believe that Florida is an adequate forum.  The court does not question Florida’s
administration of justice and while it is probably easier for plaintiff to
litigate here than there, plaintiff has not made a showing that litigating in
Florida is impossible or impracticable. 
The court assumes that Fialko would be willing to waive any issues that
might arise in Florida that would prevent adjudication on the merits there,
such as any statute of limitations issues.
 
In any event, the seminal case on point is Stangvik v.
Shiley (1991) 54 Cal.3d 744.  Our
Supreme Court set forth a two step inquiry. 
The first is whether the alternative forum is suitable.  As discussed above, the court believes
Florida is suitable.  If so, the next
step is to consider the private interests of the litigants and the public
interest in retaining the action here as opposed to allowing it to go forward
elsewhere.  Where, as here, the plaintiff
is a Californian, plaintiff’s choice of forum is presumed convenient.  (Id., at p. 754.)  California has a strong interest in providing
a forum to adjudicate grievances of its residents.  Of course, that factor alone is not
necessarily dispositive, but it is a very heavy weight.  Relatedly, Fialko’s decision to do business
here and, at least potentially, to reside here, also strongly favors retaining
jurisdiction.  (Id., at p. 756,
fn.10.)  The court also notes that
plaintiff brings suit under the elder abuse statute.  This court believes that California has an
unusually strong interest in protecting elderly California residents.  The Legislature, by passing the statute,
determined that there was a potential of vulnerability and abuse.  By passing the statute and based on the
findings supporting that enactment, this court believes that the Legislature
has signaled a strong policy favoring providing a California forum to
adjudicate claims of this nature.  On
balance, the court believes that the public and private interests tilt in favor
of retaining jurisdiction and denying the motion.  That said, however, the court will be open to
reconsidering this point if not all of the defendants are subject to California
jurisdiction.  (Although the court did
not discuss all of the factors involving FNC in detail, the court has
considered them all in making its ruling.)
 
For now, the court is satisfied that it has personal
jurisdiction over Fialko and that Fialko has not demonstrated that the court
ought to exercise its discretion under the FNC statute.  The motion to quash is, therefore, DENIED.
 
The court has considered Fialko’s evidentiary objections and
Presley’s response to them.  The
objections to the Grevillius declaration are OVERRULED in pertinent part.  The declarant does an adequate job explaining
how he came by the information in the declaration.  As to the Fabricant declaration, those
objections are OVERRULED as well.  While
the court is not 100% thrilled with the notion of documents obtained from the
web, the court believes that there is enough authentication and foundation here
for the points for which they are introduced—especially given the lack of any
contrary evidence.  As to the Presley
declaration, again the objections are, in pertinent part, OVERRULED.  Many of the statements in the declaration go
to background, and as to those the court understands context, but general
background is not critical to the resolution of the motion.  As to the specifics, the court finds Presley
is competent to testify.  The court also
notes that the moving party failed to quote the specific language, but rather
referred more generically to the paragraph or paragraphs.  That is not proper, and the objections are
OVERRULED on that ground as well, in the alternative.