 Case Number:  23SMCV00673    Hearing Date:   December 5, 2024    Dept:  I The motion to quash is GRANTED.  This is an auto accident case.  Plaintiff alleges that the moving party
caused an accident in which he was injured. 
However, he only sued the car’s owner and DOE defendants.  He then sought to name DOE 1 as the
driver—who is the owner’s spouse.  The
moving party contends that service ought to be quashed because plaintiff was
aware of her identity long before suit was filed and thus the use of the DOE
procedure is improper.  Further, the
moving party states that the statute of limitations has run.  Plaintiff opposes.  
 
This court would have thought that the motion to quash ought
to be denied in favor of allowing the moving party to demur.  After all, the problem is not with service or
the like; it is with the use of the DOE procedure.  But that is not the law.  It turns out that under Optical Surplus,
Inc. v. Superior Court (1991) 228 Cal.App.3d 776, a motion to quash is the
proper procedure.  One learns something
new every day.
 
The motion states that plaintiff took a picture of the
moving party’s driver’s license at the time of the accident and thus knew the
driver’s identity but yet did not sue the driver.  The moving party also noted that she was
identified in discovery as of January 26, 2024, yet this motion was not filed
until October 28, 2024.  
 
In opposition, plaintiff states that the picture of the
license was encrypted and lost, and thus plaintiff did not have access to the
driver’s actual name when suit was filed. 
He actually wrote down the owner’s information, but he did not do the
same for the driver.  When he wrote to
the carrier, he claims he only named the owner. 
He points out that the answer does not name the driver, and that the DOE
allegations were not challenged. 
Plaintiff states that he kept trying to depose the owner (which would have
likely yielded the driver’s name) but the owner kept postponing the
deposition.  While the deposition was
finally taken, it was not until September 27, 2024.  Plaintiff claims that the discovery responses
might have named the driver, but they were encrypted and he had no access to
them.  He also notes that there is no
prejudice to the defense from the DOE procedure and that statute of limitations
relates back.  
 
The court does not find plaintiff to be credible here.  First, at his deposition, plaintiff was able
to pull out his cell phone and show defense counsel the CDL picture.  That is flatly inconsistent with the notion
that the information on the phone was not accessible or was lost and not
retrievable.  And at no time during the
deposition did he mention that he lacked access to that picture for some period
of time.  The court does not believe that
plaintiff lacked access to discovery responses. 
It is simply not reasonable for discovery responses to be served in
January but for plaintiff to have no access to them and keep that a secret for
nine months.  In this court’s experience,
if there is a problem opening discovery responses it tends to be addressed
reasonably quickly.  And in reply,
defendant points to a letter written to plaintiff’s counsel on March 17, 2022,
that named the driver.  (The court does
not rely on the letter, as it is new evidence in reply, but it is troubling
nonetheless.)
 
While the court agrees that there is no prejudice, that is
only in the sense that a demurrer would likely be sustained without leave to
amend so the moving party would get out another way even if the motion to quash
were denied.  But that is no reason to
deny the motion.
 
In short, plaintiff should have named the driver in the
first place.  Were there no statute of
limitations problem, the court might have overlooked the DOE issue on the
theory that it would not matter whether the driver was just added in the usual
way.  But here, it does matter in the
sense that if the DOE were proper, the complaint would relate back and an
untimely action would become timely. 
That is not appropriate, and it is not the office of the DOE
procedure.  
 
Because plaintiff had actual knowledge of the driver’s
identity as early as the date of the incident, he should have named the driver
in the complaint.  The failure to do so,
especially now that the statute has run, makes the DOE amendment and service
vulnerable to a motion to quash.  The
motion to quash is therefore GRANTED.