 Case Number:  22SMCV00418    Hearing Date:   September 11, 2024    Dept:  M CASE NAME:           Li, et al., v.
Afterward Productions LLC, et al.
CASE NO.:                22SMCV00418
MOTION:                  Motion
to Enter Judgment (CCP § 664.6)
HEARING DATE:   9/11/2024

 
Legal
Standard
 
Code of Civil Procedure section¿664.6
provides:
 
“If parties to pending
litigation stipulate, in a writing signed by the parties outside the presence
of the court or orally before the court, for settlement of the case, or part
thereof, the court, upon motion, may enter judgment pursuant to the terms of
the settlement.  If requested by the
parties, the court may retain jurisdiction over the parties to enforce the
settlement until performance in full of the terms of the settlement.” 
 
            “Section
664.6 empowers a court to enforce a settlement agreement by way of a summary
procedure if certain requirements are satisfied. In order to take advantage of
the statute’s expedited procedure, a party must first establish the agreement
at issue was set forth ‘in a writing signed by the parties’ or was made orally
before the court.” (Harris v. Rudin, Richman & Appel (1999) 74
Cal.App.4th 299, 304, citations omitted.) “Because of its summary nature, strict compliance with the
requirements of section 664.6 is prerequisite to invoking the power of the
court to impose a settlement agreement.” (Sully-Miller Contracting Co. v.
Gledson/Cashman Construction, Inc. (2002) 103 Cal.App.4th 30, 37.) In
ruling on a motion under section 664.6, the trial judge may receive oral
testimony, or may determine the motion upon declarations alone. (Corkland v.
Boscoe (1984) 156 Cal.App.3d 989, 994.) Where the agreement was reached at
a court hearing, the court can resolve the dispute on the basis of its own
notes or recollection of what was agreed to (as well as any transcripts of the
proceedings). (Richardson v. Richardson (1986) 180 Cal.App.3d 91, 97.)
 
“‘[V]oluntary dismissal of an
action or special proceeding terminates the court’s jurisdiction over the
matter.’”  (Mesa RHF Partners, L.P. v.
City of Los Angeles (2019) 33 Cal.App.5th 913, 917.)  “‘If requested by the parties,’
however, ‘the [trial] court may retain jurisdiction over the parties to enforce
[a] settlement until performance in full of the terms of the settlement… A
request for the trial court to retain jurisdiction under section 664.6 ‘must
conform to the same three requirements which the Legislature and the courts
have deemed necessary for section 664.6 enforcement of the settlement itself… The
‘request must be express, not implied from other language, and it must be clear
and unambiguous.’” (Id.; see Hagan Engineering, Inc. v. Mills
(2003) 115 Cal.App.4th 1004, 1008 [“The settlement language purporting to vest
the trial court with retained jurisdiction after the dismissal was a nullity:
Subject matter jurisdiction cannot be conferred by consent, waiver or estoppel”].)
 
Analysis
 

 
Plaintiffs Kelly Li, Wet Paws
Media, Inc., and Lid Global, Inc. move to vacate Plaintiffs’ voluntary dismissal
and for entry of the Stipulated Judgments upon defendant Afterward Productions,
LLC’s (“Afterward”). 
 
In support of their motion, Plaintiffs
do not proffer any written settlement agreement. Plaintiffs proffer only the
Stipulated Judgments. (Maatta Decl., Exs. E-F.) Each of the Stipulated
Judgments provide substantially the same terms, which relevantly state: 
 
“IT IS HEREBY Stipulated that in
the event of a default by Defendant Afterward Productions, LLC, this Court
shall enter: 
 
1. A Judgment in the amount of One
Hundred Ten Thousand Dollars ($110,000.00) be entered against Defendant
Afterward Productions, LLC in favor of Plaintiff Lid Global. 
2. The Judgment, together with the
settlement Agreement contains all of the terms and conditions agreed upon by
the Parties relating to the matters covered by this Stipulated Judgment…
3. This Stipulated Judgment shall
be held by counsel for Plaintiff and not submitted to the Court or entered unless
and until said Defendant fails to timely make the payments set forth in the
Agreement. 
4. If said Defendant shall fail
to make the payment set forth in the Agreement, Plaintiff shall be entitled
to seek, on an ex parte basis, under California Rules of Court, rule 3.1200, et
seq., the entry of judgment against said Defendant consistent with this
Stipulated Judgment.
[…]
7. This Court shall retain
jurisdiction pursuant to C.C.P. § 664.6 for the sole purpose
of insuring compliance with this
Stipulated Judgment…
 
(Emphasis added.)
 
Based on these Stipulations, in the
event of default, plaintiffs Lid Global, Inc. and Kelly Li are entitled to move
the Court to enter the Stipulated Judgments against Defendant Afterward and in
favor of Lid Global, Inc. and Kelly Li in the amounts of $110,000 and $60,000,
respectively. Plaintiffs must therefore demonstrate a default has occurred
under the settlement agreement. Plaintiffs claim that the parties agreed to
payment by May 8, 2024. (Maatta Decl., ¶¶3-4.) Plaintiff’s counsel declares
that as of August 7, 2024, Afterward has not made the required payments.
(Maatta Decl., ¶ 7.) However, Plaintiffs do not provide a copy of the settlement
agreement. Plaintiffs do not cite any provision in the Stipulated Judgments
that required payment by May 8, 2024, or August 7, 2024. The requirement must
arise from the settlement agreement, but without its terms before the Court, there
is an inadequate foundation to demonstrate Defendant’s default. Therefore, the
Court cannot enter judgment pursuant to the terms of the settlement agreement
and Stipulated Judgments.
 
Otherwise, the Court concurs with
Plaintiffs that jurisdiction was properly retained over this matter despite the
voluntary dismissal on March 8, 2024. The parties requested that the Court
retain jurisdiction to enforce the settlement agreement on March 4, 2024, when
they filed the proposed order re: stipulation regarding settlement and
retention of jurisdiction, which was prior to the May 8, 2024, dismissal. The
Court therefore has jurisdiction under section 664.6 to enter judgment pursuant
to the terms of the settlement agreement.
 
Accordingly, the motion is DENIED
without prejudice.  If Plaintiffs file a
declaration with the settlement agreement prior to the hearing, the Court will
consider that agreement in ruling on this motion.