 Case Number:  22SMCV00008    Hearing Date:   September 11, 2024    Dept:  M CASE NAME:           Horizon Mesa
LLC, et al., v. Visionary Const. Mgmt Part. Co., et al.
CASE NO.:                22SMCV00008
MOTION:                  Motion
for Leave to Amend to File a Cross-Complaint 
HEARING DATE:   9/11/2024

 
Legal
Standard
 
Leave of court is required to
file a compulsory cross-complaint when it is not filed before or at the same
time as the answer. (CCP § 428.50(a), (c).) Where a party seeks leave to file a
compulsory cross-complaint, whether due to oversight, inadvertence, mistake,
neglect, or other cause, leave must be granted anytime during the course of
litigation so long as the defendant acted in good faith. (CCP § 426.50.) Leave
should be liberally granted to avoid forfeiture of causes of action.
(Ibid.)  
 
“Factors such as oversight,
inadvertence, neglect, mistake or other cause, are insufficient grounds to deny
the motion unless accompanied by bad faith.” (Silver Organizations Ltd. v.
Frank¿(1990) 217 Cal.App.3d 94, 99.) “[The] principle of liberality
requires that a strong showing of bad faith be made in order to support a
denial of the right to file a cross-complaint under this section.” (Foot's
Transfer & Storage Co. v. Superior Court (1980) 114 Cal.App.3d 897,
902.) To establish bad faith, the opposing party must show “actual or
constructive fraud, or a design to mislead or deceive another, or a neglect or
refusal to fulfill some duty or some contractual obligation, not prompted by an
honest mistake ..., but by some interested or sinister motive[,] ... not simply
bad judgment or negligence, but rather ... the conscious doing of a wrong
because of dishonest purpose or moral obliquity; ... [bad faith] contemplates a
state of mind affirmatively operating with furtive design or ill will.” (Id.
at 100.) While the good faith requirement gives courts a “modicum of
discretion,” the law strongly favors granting leave. (Sidney v. Superior
Court (1988) 198 Cal.App.3d 710, 718.) 
 
Analysis
 
Defendant/Cross-Complainant
Visionary Construction Management Partnership Co. moves for leave to file a proposed
Cross-Complaint against Roe Defendants 1-100 and “additional Defendants
identified in the proposed Cross-Complaint.” The Cross-Complaint alleges causes
of action for equitable indemnity, comparative indemnity, contribution, and for
declaratory relief against Roes 1-100. The Cross-Complaint does not name any
Cross-Defendants, but indicates that there are two “entities to be named as
Cross-Defendant(s) in this matter, 2G Framing and Structural Preservation
Systems, LLC.” (Proposed CC ¶3.) 
 
On April 5, 2022, Visionary filed a
cross-complaint against Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant Horizon Mesa and Roes 1-20.
In fact, almost a year ago, Visionary filed a Roe amendment naming Homer Perez
dba 2G Framing. Visionary does not provide any authority which would allow it
to maintain two separate cross-actions against the same set of cross-defendants.
 
To the extent that Visionary
intends to present a completely new action for indemnity against different roe
defendants, the Court finds Visionary acted in bad faith in presenting this
cross-action, precluding leave to file a new cross-complaint. Visionary does
not explain the extreme delay in bringing this motion. Visionary first appeared
in this action in February 2022. Visionary ultimately answered and
cross-complained against Horizon on April 5, 2022. Visionary claims that, at
some point, “it has become evident that considerable work was performed on the
subject property by parties other than Defendant Visionary,” thus Visionary
plans on naming those subcontractors to defend and indemnify. (Capitulo Decl.
¶¶ 1-10.) This should have been apparent at the outset since they were
Visionary’s subcontractors, and Visionary has failed to explain why it was not apparent
or what information was learned through discovery. Instead of timely bringing
the indemnity claims in April 2022, or seeking amendment in the intervening two
years, Visionary waited until July 29, 2024, to ask Plaintiff whether they
would stipulate to the filing of this cross-complaint.  Visionary did not move for leave until August
16, 2024, only two months prior to trial. The Court takes this motion as an
attempt to delay trial.  If it chooses to
do so, Visionary can always bring a future independent action for indemnity against
these subcontractors.  
 
The motion is DENIED.