  Case Number:  22STCV11417    Hearing Date:   December 19, 2024    Dept:  74 Basulto v.
Antelope Valley Medical Center, et al. 
Defendant Antelope Valley Healthcare
District’s Motion for Summary Judgment
 
BACKGROUND  
            This
case arises out of alleged employment discrimination and retaliation. On July
6, 2022, Plaintiff filed Plaintiff’s First Amended Complaint.  The FAC alleges the following causes of
action: (1) Wrongful Termination in Violation of Public Policy; (2) Medical
Leave Retaliation; (3) Medical Leave Discrimination; (4) Retaliation for
Exercising Family Leave; (5) Family Care Leave Discrimination; (6) Kin Care
Leave Retaliation; (7) Kin Care Leave Discrimination; (8) Retaliation for
Requesting Accommodations for Disabilities; (9) Failure to Engage in the
Interactive Process; (10) Failure to Reasonably Accommodate Disabilities; (11)
Disability Discrimination; (12) Disability Harassment; (13) Sexual Harassment;
(14) Sexual Orientation Harassment; (15) Harassment Based on Ancestry; (16)
Retaliation for Opposing Violations of FEHA; (17) Failure to Prevent
Harassment; and (18) Whistleblower Retaliation.  
On
September 16, 2022, the court sustained without leave to amend the demurrer to
the First (Wrongful Termination in Violation of Public Policy) and Thirteenth (Sexual
Harassment) causes of action. On March 21, 2024, defendant Antelope Valley
Health District filed its motion for summary judgment or adjudication of Plaintiff’s
remaining causes of action (Second through Twelfth and Fourteenth through
Eighteenth Causes of Action.)[1] 
            
DISCUSSION
            The
California Rules of Court require that a Separate Statement of Undisputed
Material Facts accompany a motion for summary judgment or adjudication. The
Separate Statement must “separately identify: (A) [e]ach cause of
action . . . that is the subject of the motion…[T]he separate statement should
include only material facts and not any facts that are not pertinent to the
disposition of the motion.”  (Cal. Rules
of Court, rule 3.1350(d).)
            AVHD’s
omnibus Separate Statement violates California Rules of Court, rule 3.1350
because the Separate Statement fails to separately identify each cause of
action and the specific facts relevant to that cause of action.  Because Plaintiff’s sixteen causes of action
have different elements (compare, for example, medical leave retaliation and discrimination
(2nd and 3rd causes of action) with sexual
orientation harassment (14th) with harassment based on
ancestry (15th) with whistleblower retaliation (18th)),
AVHD’s failure to organize its Separate Statement according to each cause of action
improperly shifts to the Court the burden of parsing the purportedly undisputed
facts that are material to each particular cause of action. Moreover, the memorandum
of points and authorities in AVHD’s motion adds to that burden because the memorandum
does not cite particular facts from the Separate Statement that are relevant to
a particular cause of action as the memorandum discusses each cause of action.
(See Motion pp. 15-27.)
The
Court declines to accept the burden AVHD’s Separate Statement imposes.  Failure to provide a proper Separate Statement
is sufficient to deny summary adjudication.  (Code Civ. Proc. 437c, subd. (b)(1).)  Accordingly, the Court denies summary
adjudication of any cause of action. And, because AVHD does not advance an
argument entitling it to summary judgment of the entire complaint, the court
likewise denies summary judgment.  
 
CONCLUSION
            The
Court denies Defendant’s motion for summary judgment or adjudication.
            Defendant
to give notice.


