 Case Number:  20STCV03662    Hearing Date:   September 28, 2023    Dept:  C VALLES v. INCLUSION SERVICES, LLC
CASE NO.:  20STCV03662 
HEARING:  09/28/23
 
#1
 
Defendant TRI-COUNTIES ASSOCIATION FOR THE DEVELOPMENTALLY
DISABLED, INC.’s Motion for Judgment on the Pleadings is GRANTED with 30
days leave to amend. 
 
Moving Party to give notice. 
 
Defendant’s Request for Judicial Notice is GRANTED. (Cal.
Ev. Code §452.) 
 
This action for premises liability was filed by Plaintiff
Gloria Valles against Defendants Inclusion Services, LLC; Inclusion Specialized
Supporting Living Services, LLC; and the State of California on January 29,
2020. On June 3, 2021 the operative First Amended Complaint (“FAC”) was filed. 
 
The FAC alleges that on January 24, 2019, Plaintiff was on
the driveway of her residence, and while exiting the driver’s side of her
vehicle, she was physically attacked by Doe 1, who was under the care and
custody of Defendants Inclusion Services, LLC and Inclusion Specialized
Supported Living Services, LLC. 
 
The FAC asserts the following causes of action: 
 
1.   
Negligence; 
2.   
Negligent Hiring, Retention, and
Supervision; 
3.   
Premises Liability; 
4.   
Negligence; 
5.   
Assault; 
6.   
Battery; 
7.   
IIED; 
8.   
NIED; and 
9.   
Dangerous Condition of Public Property
 
On January 10, 2023, Defendant/Moving Party TRI COUNTIES
ASSOCIATION FOR THE DEVELOPMENTALLY DISABLED, INC. dba TRI-COUNTIES REGIONAL
CENTER (“Defendant” or “Tri-Counties”) (sued as Doe 11 and Doe 12) was named as
a defendant. 
 
Tri-Counties moves for judgment on the pleadings as to all
causes of action asserted against it—the first, second, and third causes of
action. 
 
Tri- Counties first argues that judgment on the pleadings is
proper because Tri-Counties is a regional center—not a direct care provider.
Under Morohoshi v. Pacific Home (2004) 34 Cal.4th 482, 486, Plaintiff’s
action against Tri-Counties is barred. 
 
In Morohoshi, a regional center placed a disabled
person in a third-party care facility. The issue was whether the regional
center could be held vicariously liable for the care facility’s negligence. The
case turned on the interpretation of various provisions of the Lanterman Act,
which governed the scope of the regional center’s duty. Based on the
interpretation of the statute, the Court held that the regional center did not
have a non-delegable duty to provide care, and therefore could not be held
vicariously liable for the negligence of the third-party care facility. “[T]he
responsibility of a regional center is to ‘secure,’ not provide, care.” (Id.
at 489.) 
 
In Opposition, Plaintiff argues that Morohoshi is
inapplicable because Plaintiff’s claims against Tri-Counties are based on
Tri-Counties’ direct (not vicarious) liability. Those facts are not alleged in
the FAC. Because it appears that Plaintiff may be in possession of facts that
might state a cause of action, leave to amend is granted. 
 
The Motion is GRANTED with 30 days leave to amend. 
 
Tri-Counties also argues that Plaintiff’s claims are time
barred because Tri-Counties was not named as a defendant until almost 3 years
after Plaintiff initially filed suit, and almost 4 years after the Subject
Incident occurred. 
 
Under the
relation-back doctrine, an amendment relates back to the original complaint if
the amendment (1) rests on the same general set of facts; (2) involves the same
injury; and (3) refers to the same instrumentality. (Pointe San Diego
Residential Community, L.P. v. Procopio, Cory, Hargreaves & Savitch, LLP
(2011) 195 Cal.App.4th 265, 276.) Doe amendments are governed by the
relation-back doctrine. “The general rule is that an amended complaint that
adds a new defendant does not relate back to the date of filing the original
complaint and the statute of limitations is applied as of the date the amended
complaint is filed, not the date the original complaint is filed. [Citation.] A
recognized exception to the general rule is the substitution under section 474
of a new defendant for a fictitious Doe defendant named in the original
complaint as to whom a cause of action was stated in the original complaint.
[Citation.] If the requirements of section 474 are satisfied, the amended
complaint substituting a new defendant for a fictitious Doe defendant filed
after the statute of limitations has expired is deemed filed as of the date the
original complaint was filed.” (Woo v. Sup. Ct. (1999) 75 Cal.App.4th
169, 176.) 
 
Defendants argue
that the relation-back doctrine does not apply because Plaintiff “was made
aware of Tri-Counties as far back as February 17, 2022 yet waited almost an
entire year to amend its complaint on January 10, 2023 to DOE them in.” (Motion
9:1-3.)  However, nothing within the four
walls of the FAC establishes that Plaintiff was aware of Tri-Counties’ identity
and role in Plaintiff’s alleged injuries at the time the initial Complaint was
filed. Because this element of knowledge is required to bar the application of
the relation-back doctrine, the Court cannot grant judgment on the pleadings on
this bass. (See Fuller v. Tucker (2000) 84 Cal.App.4th 1163, 1170.) The
Court cannot grant judgment on the pleadings based on a statute of limitations
defense unless the allegations of the complaint demonstrate that the claims are
necessarily time-barred. The Motion is not granted on this basis. 
 