 Case Number:  21NWCV00512    Hearing Date:   September 28, 2023    Dept:  C CITIBANK N.A. v. AVETISIAN
CASE NO.:  21NWCV00512 
HEARING:  09/28/23
 
#6
 
Defendant (in pro per) ROBERT AVETISIAN’s
Motion to Compel Arbitration is DENIED. 
 
Opposing Party to give notice. 
 
Plaintiff Citibank filed this lawsuit to collect a debt from Defendant.
 
Except for specifically
enumerated exceptions, the court must order the parties to arbitrate a
controversy if the court finds that a written agreement to arbitrate the
controversy exists. (See CCP §1281.2.) “In California, [g]eneral principles of
contract law determine whether the parties have entered a binding agreement to
arbitrate.” (Craig v. Brown & Root, Inc. (2000) 84 Cal.App.4th 416,
420.) “A petition to compel arbitration or stay proceedings pursuant to CCP
§§1281.1 and 1281.4 must state, in addition to other required allegations, the
provisions of the written agreement and the paragraph that provides for
arbitration. The provisions must be stated verbatim or a copy must be
physically or electronically attached to the petition and incorporated by reference.”
(C.R.C. Rule 3.1330.) 
 
The petitioner bears the burden of proving the existence of a valid
arbitration agreement by the preponderance of the evidence, and a party
opposing the petition bears the burden of proving by a preponderance of the
evidence any fact necessary to its defense. In these summary proceedings, the
trial court sits as a trier of fact, weighing all the affidavits, declarations,
and other documentary evidence, as well as oral testimony received at the
court’s discretion, to reach a final determination. (Engalia v. Permanente
Medical Group, Inc. (1997) 15 Cal.4th 951.) 
 
Here, Defendant urges this Court to enforce an arbitration agreement,
seemingly located within the credit card agreement entered into by the parties.
However, no Arbitration Agreement is attached to the Complaint or this Motion. Further,
neither the terms of the purported Arbitration Agreement, nor its relevant
provisions are recited in the Complaint or this Motion. Notwithstanding
Plaintiff’s lack of substantive opposition to Plaintiff’s Motion, the Court
cannot conclude, based on the evidence provided, that a valid arbitration
agreement exists between the parties. 
 
The Motion is DENIED. 