 Case Number:  22NWCV00864    Hearing Date:   September 28, 2023    Dept:  C AVINA v. COLLAZO-VENEGAS 
CASE
NO.:  22NWCV00864
HEARING: 
09/28/23
 
#4
 
    
I.       
Plaintiff’s unopposed Motion to Compel Further
Responses to Requests for Production of Documents (set one) is GRANTED. 
 
   
II.       
Plaintiff’s unopposed Motion to Compel Defendant’s
Initial Responses to Form Interrogatories (set one) is GRANTED. 
 
Moving
Party to give notice.
 
No
Opposition(s) filed as of September 25, 2023.  
 
Background
 
The
Complaint alleges that Plaintiff was having difficulty making mortgage payments
on her home and met Defendant, a purported realtor, who represented she could
help Plaintiff modify her loan.  Instead
of doing so, they agreed that Defendant would move into the residence and pay
rent in an amount equal to the mortgage. 
Plaintiff moved out of the residence and eventually found another
realtor to help her sell the property.  Unbeknownst
to Plaintiff, a grant deed was recorded which transferred the property to
Defendant’s parents and brother. 
Plaintiff also learned that a loan had been taken out against the home
in the amount of $200,000 as security for a bail bond for Defendant’s brother.  Plaintiff brings causes of action for quiet
title, slander of title, fraud and declaratory relief.  
 
Motion
to Compel Further Responses to Request for Production of Documents 
 
“On receipt
of a response to a demand for inspection, copying, testing, or sampling, the
demanding party may move for an order compelling further response to the demand
if the demanding party deems that any of the following apply: (1) A state of
compliance with the demand is incomplete. (2) A representation of inability to
comply is inadequate, incomplete, or evasive. (3) An objection in the response
is without merit or too general.” (CCP §2031.310(a).) 
 
A motion to
compel further responses to a request for production “shall set forth specific
facts showing good cause justifying the discovery sought by the inspection
demand.” (CCP §2031.310(b).) 
 
“If a party
to whom a demand for inspection… fails to serve a timely response to it…(a) The
party to whom the demand for inspection… is directed waives any objection to
the demand, including one based on privilege or on the protection for work
product….The court, on motion, may relieve that party from this waiver on its
determination that both of the following conditions are satisfied: (1) The
party has subsequently served a response that is in substantial compliance….
(2) The party’s failure to serve a timely response was the result of mistake,
inadvertence, or excusable neglect. (emphasis added.)” (CCP §2031.300(a).) 
 
The Motion
is GRANTED in full. Plaintiff has properly put in issue the objections and
deficiencies in Defendant’s responses to the discovery at issue. Defendant’s
subject responses state that documents would be produced “herewith”. However,
to date, no documents have been produced. As of September 25, 2023 no
substantive Opposition to the Motion has been filed and the Court is unaware of
whether any supplemental responses/documents have been served. The Court has
reviewed Defendant’s current responses and finds that they are incomplete and
inadequate. Defendant is ORDERED to produce further documents and further verified
responses without objections to each RPD identified by no later than 15 days
from the date of the Court’s issuance of this Order.  
 
Reasonable
sanctions in favor of Plaintiff are warranted. Defendant SANDOVAL and their
counsel are jointly and severally ORDERED to pay reasonable sanctions in the
amount of $760.00 ($350/hr. x 2 hrs.) + ($60 filing fee), payable within 30
days of the Court’s issuance of this Order. This date may be extended by
agreement of the parties. 
 
Motion
to Compel Form Interrogatories (Not Further) 
 
If a party
to whom interrogatories and document demands are directed fails to respond at
all, the propounding party’s remedy is to seek a court order compelling answers
thereto. (CCP §§ 2030.290, 2031.300.) All that needs to be shown is that the
discovery was properly served on the opposing party, that the time to respond
has expired, and that no response of any kind has been served. The moving party
is not required to show a reasonable and good faith attempt to resolve the
matter informally before filing this motion. A motion to compel initial
discovery responses need not show good cause, meeting and conferring, or timely
filing, and need not be accompanied by a separate statement. (See Sinaiko
Healthcare Consulting, Inc. v. Pac. Healthcare Consultants (2007) 148
Cal.App.4th 390, 404.) The failure to timely respond also waives all
objections. 
 
Here, Plaintiff
has shown that Form Interrogatories (set one) were properly served onto Defendant
DANIEL SANDOVAL on December 12, 2022. The deadline to respond has expired, and
no responses of any kind have been provided to Form Interrogatory 17.1.  Plaintiff filed this Motion on March 15, 2023—
over three months after service of the discovery. As of September 25, 2023, no Opposition
has been filed to the subject Motions. 
 
Therefore,
the Motion to Compel is GRANTED, and
Defendant SANDOVAL is ORDERED to
provide verified responses, without objection to Form Interrogatory No. 17.1 by
no later than 15 days from date of the Court’s issuance of this Order.
This date may be extended by stipulation of the parties. If any objections are
asserted, it will be tantamount to no response at all and will be deemed a
violation of this Court’s order. 
 
Sanctions
may be awarded against a party who fails to oppose a motion to compel. (C.R.C
3.1348(a).). Plaintiff failed to submit Oppositions to the instant Motions. As
such, there is nothing to show that they acted with substantial justification
and the Court knows of no other circumstances which would make the imposition
of sanctions unjust.  
 
Plaintiff’s
requests for sanctions are GRANTED.
Defendant SANDOVAL and their counsel of record are ORDERED to pay Plaintiff and their
counsel of record, sanctions in the amount of $585.00 ($350 x 1.5 hr.)  ($60 filing fee) by no later than 30 days
from the Court’s issuance of this Order. This date may be extended per
agreement of the parties. 
 
 