 Case Number:  22NWCV00639    Hearing Date:   September 28, 2023    Dept:  C NATIONAL
COMMERCIAL RECOVERY, INC. v. L.A. GRAND CLOTHING, INC. 
CASE NO.: 22NWCV00639
HEARING:  09/28/33
 
#8
 
Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant
NATIONAL COMMERCIAL RECOVERY, INC.’s Demurrer to the Cross-Complaint is OVERRULED.

 
Opposing Party to
give Notice. 
 
This collections
action was filed by Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant NATIONAL COMMERICAL RECOVERY,
INC. (“Cross-Defendant”) on July 26, 2022. On September 15, 2022, a First
Amended Complaint (“FAC”) was filed. 
 
On February 24,
2023, the subject Cross-Complaint (“XC”) was filed by
Defendants/Cross-Complainants L.A. GRAND CLOTHING INC.; SSS APPAREL INC.;
GUILBERT TEX, INC.; SM CLOTHING INC.; and SIAMIAK OKHOVAT, individually and as
trustee of The Okhovat Revocable Family Trust, Dated May 12, 2004 (collectively
‘Cross-Complainants’). 
 
The Cross-Complaint
alleges the following relevant facts: “The claims brought by [Cross-Defendant]
in this action were assigned to it by J. Label, Inc.” (XC ¶6.) “In the FAC,
[Cross-Defendant] alleges that Cross-Complainants, operating under the name
‘Angel Kiss’, purchased and obtained wholesale fabric from NCR’s assignor, J
Label, and are thus indebted to J Label in the net amount of $215,357.89.” (XC
¶12.) “Cross-Complainants have never operated under the name ‘Angel Kiss. [¶]
Cross-Complainants have never purchased fabric, or any other good or service,
from J Label.” (XC ¶¶14-15.) “Cross-Complainants… allege, that Kim and PVE…
purchased and obtained from J Label the wholesale fabrics referenced in the
FAC.” (XC ¶17.) Cross-Complainants allege that that Kim and PVE, solely, are
responsible for the amounts alleged to be due and owing to NCR and J Label from
‘Angel Kiss’ in the FAC.” (XC ¶18.) 
 
The XC asserts one
sole cause of action for Declaratory Relief. 
 
Cross-Defendant argues
that the XC is subject to general demurrer because the XC “seeks a
determination of the "liabilities" of cross-complainants and cross defendants
with respect to the damages alleged in the FAC, but NCR does not take on any
liability as a mere assignee for collection.” 
(Demurrer, p. 4.)  Cross-Defendant
argues that it was not involved in the subject transactions and has no personal
knowledge of any facts relevant to a determination of liabilities between the
Cross-Complainants and other remaining cross-defendants. 
 
There are two
essential elements for declaratory relief: “(1) a proper subject of declaratory
relief, and (2) an actual controversy involving justiciable questions relating
to [plaintiff’s] rights or obligations.” (Brownfield v. Daniel Freeman
Marina Hospital (1989) 208 Cal.App.3d 405, 410.) 
 
Declaratory relief
is a broad remedy, and the rule that a pleading is to be liberally construed is
particularly applicable to a claim for declaratory relief. (See City of
Tiburon v. Northwestern Pac. R.R. Co. (1970) 4 Cal.App.3d 160, 170.)
 
The Demurrer is
OVERRULED. “The general rule is that the mere assignment of rights under an
executory contract does not cast upon the assignee any of the personal
liabilities imposed by the contract upon the assignor. [Citation.] Whether an
assignee has assumed the obligations of the contract is to be determined by the
intent of the parties and may be implied from acceptance of benefits under the
contract. [Citations.]” (Walker v. Phillips (1962) 205 Cal.App.2d 26,
32-33.) 
 
Here, the XC
sufficiently alleges that all of the claims brought by Cross-Defendant were
assigned to it by J. Label, Inc., without limitation. The FAC alleges that
“Plaintiff’s Assignor, J. Label, Inc… assigned and transferred to Plaintiff all
of its right, title and interest in and to the said sum, claim and indebtedness
due it from said Defendants… and Plaintiff is now the lawful holder thereof.”
(FAC ¶2.)  Cross-Defendant argues, “NCR
has been assigned a debt that has already been incurred (unpaid invoices for
purchases of wholesale fabric that has already been delivered and accepted), so
the assignor had no further obligations which could have been assumed by NCR
with the assignment.” (Reply, p. 3.) 
However, it cannot be determined from the four-walls of the operative
pleadings that Cross-Defendant did not assume the obligations of its assignor
at the time of assignment. Consequently, the Court finds the XC adequately
alleges that an actual and immediate controversy exists between the parties
regarding their rights and duties with respect to each other for purposes of
surviving demurrer. The arguments raised in the instant demurrer raise factual
determinations inappropriately resolved at this stage in the litigation. 