 Case Number:  23STCV15718    Hearing Date:   April 16, 2024    Dept:  55 NATURE OF PROCEEDINGS:
Demurrer of Defendant County of Los Angeles to Complaint.
BACKGROUND
YOLANDA CASSIDY (“Plaintiff”) filed a Complaint against
Defendants COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES, JOSEPH WILLIAMS, SUSAN BURAKOWSKI, and ALEX
VILLANUEVA (collectively, “Defendants”), alleging that Defendants used Plaintiff’s
name to falsely communicate that Plaintiff treated a deceased police dog and
participated in a cover-up of the dog’s death, which harmed her professional
reputation and ability to earn income. The causes of action are: 1) False Light
Invasion of Privacy; and 2) Misappropriation of Name Invasion of Privacy.
Defendants demur to both claims of the Complaint. Plaintiff
opposes the demurrer. 
LEGAL STANDARD
Demurrers are to be sustained where a pleading fails
to plead adequately any essential element of the cause of action. Cantu v.
Resolution Trust Corp. (1992) 4 Cal.App.4th 857, 879-880. 
ANALYSIS
            First
Cause of Action – False Light
Plaintiff’s false light claim alleges that, to deflect
attention from LASD misconduct that resulted in the death of a police dog named
Spike, Defendants created a memorandum that falsely stated Plaintiff was the
veterinarian who saw and treated Spike. FAC, ¶¶ 6, 39, 41, 55, 66-73. Plaintiff
alleges that she has been harmed by Defendants’ false portrayal of her as an
incompetent veterinarian who participated in a criminal cover up regarding Spike’s
death. Id., ¶¶ 13, 60, 74-75. “False light is a species of invasion of
privacy, based on publicity that places a plaintiff before the public in a
false light that would be highly offensive to a reasonable person, and where
the defendant knew or acted in reckless disregard as to the falsity of the
publicized matter and the false light in which the plaintiff would be placed.” Jackson
v. Mayweather, 10 Cal. App. 5th 1240, 1264 (internal quotation omitted). 
Defendants argue that Plaintiff’s claim is premised on
the allegedly libelous (defamatory) LASD memorandum, and because the defamatory
nature of the memorandum is purportedly not apparent on its face, Plaintiff
must allege special damages with particularity. Fellows v. National
Enquirer, Inc. (1986) 42 Cal.3d 234, 239 (holding that a false light claim based
on defamatory language must plead special damages). Special damages are those
the plaintiff alleged she has suffered “in respect to [her] property, business,
trade, profession or occupation.” Cal. Civ. Code § 48a(d)(2). For purposes of
demurrer, additional particularity is not required regarding such special
damages. See Barnes-Hind, Inc. v. Sup. Ct. (1986) 181 Cal. App. 3d 377,
384 (special damages alleged as “decline of business, loss of goodwill, and
injury to business reputation” can be sufficient to withstand a demurrer).
Here, the Court concludes that the FAC adequately
alleges that Plaintiff lost substantial past and future income in the minimum amount
of $5 million, goodwill, and reputation in the veterinarian industry. FAC, ¶¶ 64,
84, Prayer for Relief. 
Hence, the demurrer to the First Cause of Action is
not well-taken.
            Second
Cause of Action – Invasion of Privacy/Misappropriation
Defendants contend that
Plaintiff did not allege that Defendants appropriated her name in pursuit of
commercial gain or business profit. Additionally, Defendants argues that the
Court in Kirby v. Sega of America, Inc. (2006) 144 Cal. App. 4th 47 erred
in opining that commercial gain need not be alleged. Demurrer, 10:9-14.  Also, Defendants assert that common law claims
are inapposite as to Defendant County. Demurrer, 9:4.
The
elements of a claim for misappropriation of identity - common law are:

Unauthorized
     use of the plaintiff's identity;
to
     defendant’s advantage;
by
     commercially or otherwise appropriating plaintiff's name, voice,
     likeness, et. cetera; and
resulting
     injury.

Kirby, supra,
144 Cal.App.4th at p. 55.
Plaintiff need not also allege statutory
misappropriation, because common law suffices. “[T]he allegations in the body
of the complaint, not the caption, constitute the cause of action against the
defendant.” Davaloo v. State Farm Ins. Co. (2005) 135 Cal.App.4th 409,
418. Demurrers
do not lie as to only parts of causes of action, where some valid claim is
alleged. Poizner v. Fremont General Corp.  (2007) 148 Cal.App.4th
97, 119. Further, government entities can have statutory liability for
common law claims. Government Code Section 815.2(a) “codifies the doctrine of
respondeat superior as it applies to public entities,” and provides that they
are liable for injuries proximately caused by acts or omissions of their
employees within the scope of employment, if those would have given rise to a
cause of action against the employees based upon law apart from the Section. Miklosy
v. Regents of the Univ. of Cal. (2008) 44 Cal.4th 876, 900.
As for whether the Kirby Court erred in
deciding there need not be a commercial element for a misappropriation claim,
this trial Court is not authorized to decide that contention. “[A] trial court
does not have the luxury of refusing to follow decisions it disagrees with.” Lewis
v. Sup. Ct. (1994) 30 Cal.App.4th 1850, 1867.
Thus, the demurrer is overruled as to the Second Cause
of Action.
CONCLUSION
The demurrer is overruled. The demurrer is overruled.
Twenty days to answer. 