 Case Number:  24STCV02924    Hearing Date:   September 12, 2024    Dept:  53 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles – Central District
Department
53
 
 




yolanda robins

   ;
 


   Plaintiff,
 
 
vs.
 
 
the alexandria apartment
   homes partnership llc

   ;
 


   Defendant.


Case
  No.:


24STCV02924




 


 




Hearing
  Date:


September
   12, 2024




 


 




Time:





   10:00 a.m.




 


 




 
[tentative]
  Order RE:
 
defendant’s demurrer to complaint
 



 
MOVING PARTY:                 Defendant Alexandria Housing
Partners (erroneously sued as The Alexandria Apartment Homes Partnership)            
 
RESPONDING PARTY:        Unopposed
Demurrer to Complaint
The court
considered the moving papers filed in connection with this demurrer.  No opposition papers were filed. 
DISCUSSION
Defendant Alexandria Housing Partners (erroneously sued as The
Alexandria Apartment Homes Partnership) (“Defendant”) moves the court for an
order sustaining its demurrer to the sole cause of action alleged by plaintiff
Yolanda Robins (“Plaintiff”) in Plaintiff’s Complaint. 
The court sustains Defendant’s demurrer to the cause of action for
violation of the Americans with Disabilities Act (42 U.S.C. § 12101 et seq.)
(the “ADA”) because it is ambiguous and unintelligible, and therefore uncertain.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subd. (f).) 
The court also sustains Defendant’s demurrer to the cause of action
for violation of the ADA because it does not state facts sufficient to
constitute a cause of action since, to the extent that Plaintiff has alleged
that Defendant has violated Title III of the ADA, Plaintiff has not alleged
facts establishing that (1) Plaintiff has a disability within the meaning of
the ADA, and (2) Plaintiff was denied public accommodations by Defendant
because of that disability.  (Code Civ.
Proc., § 430.10, subd. (e); Compl., p. 2:1-6 [requesting accommodations for
people with disabilities]; Martin v. Thi E-Commerce, LLC (2023) 95
Cal.App.5th 521, 528 [elements of Title III discrimination claim under ADA].)  
The burden is on the plaintiff “to articulate how it could amend its
pleading to render it sufficient.”¿ (Palm Springs Villas II Homeowners
Assn., Inc. v. Parth (2016) 248 Cal.App.4th 268, 290.)¿ To satisfy that
burden, a plaintiff “must show in what manner he can amend his complaint and
how that amendment will change the legal effect of his pleading.”¿ (Goodman
v. Kennedy (1976) 18 Cal.3d 335, 349.)  Plaintiff did not file an
opposition or other papers requesting that the court grant them leave to amend
the Complaint.  Thus, the court finds
that Plaintiff has not met their burden to articulate how they could amend the
Complaint to render it sufficient.  The
court therefore sustains Defendant’s demurrer without leave to amend.
ORDER
            The court sustains defendant
Alexandria Housing Partners, erroneously sued as The Alexandria Apartment Homes
Partnership’s demurrer to plaintiff Yolanda Robin’s Complaint without leave to
amend. 
            The court orders defendant Alexandria
Housing Partners, erroneously sued as The Alexandria Apartment Homes
Partnership, to prepare, serve, and lodge a proposed judgment of dismissal
within 10 days of the date of this order. 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 581, subd. (f)(1).)
            The court sets an Order to Show
Cause re dismissal (after sustaining demurrer without leave to amend) for hearing
on December 11, 2024, at 8:30 a.m.
 
 
 
 
            The court orders defendant Alexandria
Housing Partners, erroneously sued as The Alexandria Apartment Homes
Partnership, to give notice of this ruling.
IT IS SO ORDERED.
DATED:  September 12, 2024
 
_____________________________
Robert
B. Broadbelt III
Judge
of the Superior Court