 Case Number:  23STCV06762    Hearing Date:   September 12, 2024    Dept:  53 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles – Central District
Department
53
 
 




italia arteaga

   , et al.;
 


   Plaintiffs,
 
 
vs.
 
 
adventist health white memorial

   , et al.,
 


   Defendants.


Case
  No.:


23STCV06762




 


 




Hearing
  Date:


September
   12, 2024




 


 




Time:





   10:00 a.m.




 


 




 
[Tentative]
  Order RE:
 
(1)   defendants’ motion for summary judgment or,
  in the alternative, summary adjudication
(2)   defendant’s motion for summary judgment or,
  in the alternative, summary adjudication
 



 
MOVING PARTIES:              Defendants Cinna Toy Wohlmuth,
M.D., and Sarah Simko, M.D.   
 
RESPONDING PARTY:        Unopposed
(1)  
Motion for Summary
Judgment or, in the Alternative, Summary Adjudication
MOVING PARTY:                Defendant White Memorial Medical
Center, d/b/a Adventist Health White Memorial
 
RESPONDING PARTY:        Unopposed
(2)  
Motion for
Summary Judgment or, in the Alternative, Summary Adjudication
The court
considered the moving papers filed in connection with each motion.  No opposition papers were filed. 
 
 
BACKGROUND
Plaintiffs Italia Arteaga (“Arteaga”) and Henry Ron (“Ron”)
(collectively, “Plaintiffs”) filed this action against defendants Adventist
Health White Memorial, Cinna Toy Wohlmuth, M.D. (“Dr. Wohlmuth”), and Sarah
Simko, M.D. (“Dr. Simko”) on March 28, 2023, alleging two causes of action for
(1) wrongful death, and (2) negligent infliction of emotional distress. 
Now pending before the court are two motions for summary judgment or,
alternatively, summary adjudication. 
First, Dr. Wohlmuth and Dr. Simko move for summary judgment on
Plaintiffs’ Complaint or, in the alternative, summary adjudication on various
issues.  Second, defendant White Memorial
Medical Center d/b/a Adventist Health White Memorial (“Adventist”) moves for
summary judgment on Plaintiffs’ Complaint or, in the alternative, summary
adjudication on each cause of action and on the issue of agency. 
LEGAL STANDARD
The purpose of a motion for summary judgment or summary
adjudication “is to provide courts with a mechanism to cut through the parties’
pleadings in order to determine whether, despite their allegations, trial is in
fact necessary to resolve their dispute.” 
(Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co.
(2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 843.)  “Code
of Civil Procedure section 437c, subdivision (c), requires the trial judge to
grant summary judgment if all the evidence submitted, and ‘all inferences
reasonably deducible from the evidence’ and uncontradicted by other inferences
or evidence, show that there is no triable issue as to any material fact and
that the moving party is entitled to judgment as a matter of law.”  (Adler
v. Manor Healthcare Corp. (1992) 7 Cal.App.4th 1110, 1119.)
“On a motion for summary judgment, the initial burden is always on
the moving party to make a prima facie showing that there are no triable issues
of material fact.”  (Scalf v. D.B. Log Homes, Inc. (2005) 128 Cal.App.4th 1510,
1519.)  A defendant or cross-defendant
moving for summary judgment or summary adjudication “has met his or her burden
of showing that a cause of action has no merit if the party has shown that one
or more elements of the cause of action . . . cannot be established, or that
there is a complete defense to the cause of action.”  (Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 437c, subd. (p)(2).)  “Once the
defendant or cross-defendant has met that burden, the burden shifts to the
plaintiff or cross-complainant to show that a triable issue of one or more
material facts exists as to the cause of action or a defense thereto.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (p)(2).)  “If the plaintiff cannot do so, summary
judgment should be granted.”  (Avivi v. Centro
Medico Urgente Medical Center (2008) 159 Cal.App.4th 463, 467.)  “When deciding whether to grant summary
judgment, the court must consider all of the evidence set forth in the papers
(except evidence to which the court has sustained an objection), as well as all
reasonable inferences that may be drawn from that evidence, in the light most
favorable to the party opposing summary judgment.”  (Id. at
p. 467; Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (c).)
MOTION FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT FILED BY
DEFENDANTS DR. WOHLMUTH AND DR. SIMKO
Defendants Dr. Wohlmuth and Dr. Simko (collectively,
“Physician Defendants”) move the court for an order granting summary judgment or,
alternatively, summary adjudication in their favor and against Plaintiffs.  

1.     Plaintiffs’
First Cause of Action for Wrongful Death
To prevail on a cause of action for wrongful death, “plaintiffs
must prove ‘(1) a “wrongful act or neglect” on the part of one or more persons
[(that is, negligence)] that (2) “causes” (3) the “death of [another] person.”
’”  (Musgrove v. Silver (2022) 82
Cal.App.5th 694, 705.)   Plaintiffs have
alleged, in connection with this cause of action, that Physician
Defendants negligently, carelessly, and unskillfully treated, triaged, cared
for, diagnosed, operated on, and otherwise handled Plaintiffs’ daughter, decedent
Alaia Valentina Ron (“Decedent”), such that Decedent died on April 20,
2022.  (Compl., ¶ 13.)  Thus, the wrongful act underlying this cause
of action is the alleged medical malpractice of Physician Defendants.  
The court finds that Physician Defendants have met their burden of
showing that the first cause of action for wrongful death has no merit because Physician
Defendants have shown that an element of the cause of action (a wrongful act or
neglect on the part of Physician Defendants) cannot be established since
Physician Defendants have shown that they (1) did not breach their duties to
use such skill, prudence, and diligence as other members of their profession
commonly possess and exercise, and (2) did not cause the death of
Decedent.  (San Antonio Regional
Hospital v. Superior Court of San Bernardino County (2024) 102 Cal.App.5th
346, 351 [“‘The elements of a cause of action for medical malpractice are: (1)
a duty to use such skill, prudence, and diligence as other members of the
profession commonly possess and exercise; (2) a breach of the duty; (3) a
proximate causal connection between the negligent conduct and the injury; and
(4) resulting loss or damage’”].) 
Physician Defendants have submitted evidence establishing their
involvement in the labor and delivery of Decedent as follows. 
On April 18, 2022, Dr. Wohlmuth admitted plaintiff Arteaga to the
hospital because of her uterine contractions, leakage of fluid, and a
non-reassuring fetal heart tracing.  (Dr.
Elliot Decl., ¶ 10; Dr. Friedlich Decl., ¶ 10.) 
On April 19, 2022, Dr. Simko evaluated the fetal heart tracing of
Decedent, verified that it showed a sinusoidal pattern, and called Dr. Wohlmuth
to evaluate the tracing.  (Dr. Friedlich
Decl., ¶ 25; Dr. Ellio Decl., ¶ 25)  Thereafter,
Physician Defendants performed an emergent low transverse cesarean section,
following Dr. Simko’s discussion with plaintiff Arteaga regarding the risks,
benefits, and alternatives of a cesarean section delivery for a Category 3
fetal heart tracing with a sinusoidal pattern. 
(Dr. Friedlich Decl., ¶¶ 27-28; Dr. Elliot Decl., ¶¶ 27-28.)  After delivery, Decedent suffered various
issues and was determined to be in critical condition.  (Dr. Friedlich Decl., ¶¶ 30-32; Dr. Elliot
Decl., ¶¶ 30-32.)  Decedent passed away
at 12:35 a.m. on April 20, 2022.  (Dr.
Friedlich Decl., ¶ 37; Dr. Elliot Decl., ¶ 37.) 
Physician Defendants have submitted the expert declarations of (1)
Dr. Elliot, a physician licensed to practice in the State of California, who
has been practicing obstetrics and gynecology since 1974, and (2) Dr. Friedlich,
a physician licensed to practice in the State of California, who has been
practicing pediatrics and neonatal medicine since 1992.  (Dr. Elliot Decl., ¶¶ 1, 3-4; Dr. Friedlich
Decl., ¶¶ 1, 3-4.)  In reviewing the
medical records of plaintiff Arteaga and Decedent, Dr. Elliot and Dr. Friedlich
have set forth the following opinions. 
First, Dr. Elliot asserts that the monitoring of plaintiff
Arteaga’s labor progress was appropriate and within the standard of care
because, inter alia, the physicians (i.e., Physician Defendants)
“appropriately came to the bedside” of plaintiff Arteaga upon being informed by
the nurses of their concerns regarding the fetal heart tracings.  (Dr. Elliot Decl., ¶¶ 38, 39 [“a physician
came to the bedside” after the fetal heart tracing changed from Category 1 to
Category 3, which “was appropriate and within the standard of care”].) 
Second, Dr. Elliot asserts that, due to the sinusoidal pattern of
the fetal heart tracing, a decision was reached to perform an emergency
cesarean to deliver Decedent.  (Dr.
Elliot Decl., ¶ 40.)  The timing of the
decision to the procedure was “timely, appropriate, and within the standard of
care.”  (Ibid.)  
Third, Dr. Elliot states that the sinusoidal heart rate pattern
that Decedent developed was due to Decedent losing blood into the maternal
circulation.  (Dr. Elliot Decl., ¶
41.)  Dr. Friedlich asserts that Decedent
was “losing blood into the maternal circulation for at least one week before
the delivery.”  (Dr. Friedlich Decl., ¶
38.)  However, the fetal heart tracing
did not indicate possible fetal anemia until the sinusoidal pattern began
around 11:30 p.m., such that “this information was unknown to the obstetrical
team and there was no way that the obstetricians could have determined this prospectively
during the labor process.”  (Dr. Elliot
Decl., ¶ 41; Dr. Friedlich Decl., ¶ 38.) 
Dr. Elliot further asserts that the cesarean section was appropriately
and timely performed once the sinusoidal heart pattern appeared and became
persistent.  (Dr. Elliot Decl., ¶ 41.) 
Fourth, Dr. Elliot asserts that “the cord blood gases at birth did
not reflect acidosis and demonstrate that there was no intrapartum hypoxic
event during the delivery process[,]” such that “nothing that occurred during
the labor and delivery process made [Decedent’s] pre-existing severe chronic
anemia worse.”  (Dr. Elliot Decl., ¶ 42;
Dr. Friedlich Decl., ¶ 41.)  Decedent was
determined to be profoundly anemic at 1:40 a.m., meaning that Decedent “was
trying to produce red blood cells to replace the blood that was lost into the
maternal circulation . . . .”  (Dr.
Elliot Decl., ¶ 43.)  The Kleihauer Betke
test results indicated that more than half of Decedent’s expected blood volume
was found in the mother’s system (i.e., plaintiff Arteaga’s system), which “is
evidence that [Decedent] had a chronic bleed in utero.”  (Dr. Elliot Decl., ¶ 44; Dr. Friedlich Decl.,
¶ 39.)  
Based on the opinions set forth above, Dr. Elliot concluded that (1)
Physician Defendants complied with the standard of care during the labor of
plaintiff Arteaga and delivery of Decedent, and (2) Physician Defendants did
not cause or contribute to causing the death of Decedent.  (Dr. Elliot Decl., ¶¶ 45-46.)  Similarly, Dr. Friedlich concluded that (1) an
earlier delivery of Decedent would not have changed the outcome, and (2) no act
or omission of Physician Defendants caused or contributed to causing the death
of Decedent.  (Dr. Friedlich Decl., ¶¶
43-44.) 
            Thus, the court finds that Physician
Defendants have met their burden to show that they did not, in handling the
labor of plaintiff Arteaga and delivery and care of Decedent, breach the
standard of care or cause the death of Decedent.  (San Antonio Regional Hospital, supra,
102 Cal.App.5th at p. 351 [elements of medical malpractice]; Ibid. [elements
of standard of care and causation requires competent expert testimony].)  The court therefore finds that Physician
Defendants have shown that Plaintiffs cannot establish the element of a wrongful
act or neglect on Physician Defendants’ part that caused the death of
Decedent.  (Musgrove, supra,
82 Cal.App.5th at p. 705.)
The court finds that Plaintiffs have not met their burden to show
that a triable issue of material fact exists as to the element of a wrongful
act or neglect on the part of Physician Defendants that caused the death of
Decedent.  Plaintiffs did not file an
opposition to this motion, and therefore have not presented argument or
evidence showing that a triable issue of material fact exists as to whether
Physician Defendants’ delivery, treatment, and care of Decedent breached the
standard of care and caused Decedent’s death. 
The court therefore grants Physician Defendants’ motion
for summary adjudication as to the first cause of action for wrongful death.
2.     Plaintiff
Arteaga’s Second Cause of Action for Negligent Infliction of Emotional Distress
The “‘ “negligent causing of emotional distress is not an
independent tort but the tort of negligence . . . .”  [Citation.] 
“The traditional elements of duty, breach of duty, causation, and
damages apply.” ’”  (Eriksson v.
Nunnink (2015) 233 Cal.App.4th 708, 729 [internal emphasis omitted]; Romero
v. Los Angeles Rams (2023) 91 Cal.App.5th 562, 567 [“The elements of a
negligence cause of action are 1) the existence of a duty, 2) a breach of that
duty, 3) injury to the plaintiff caused by the defendant’s breach, and 4)
actual damages”].)  
The court finds that Physician Defendants have
met their burden of showing that the second cause of action for negligent
infliction of emotional distress has no merit because Physician
Defendants have shown that an element of the cause of action (Physician
Defendants’ breach of their duty of care and causation) cannot be
established.
Plaintiff Arteaga alleges, in connection with this cause of
action, that Physician Defendants caused Arteaga severe emotional distress
arising from the abnormal event of participating in a negligent delivery of
Decedent.  (Compl., ¶ 23.)  Thus, this cause of action is based on the
alleged medical malpractice of Physician Defendants.  As set forth above, Physician Defendants have
met their burden to show that they did not, in handling the labor of plaintiff
Arteaga and delivery and care of Decedent, breach the standard of care or cause
the death of Decedent.  (Dr. Elliott
Decl., ¶¶ 38-46; Dr. Friedlich Decl., ¶¶ 38-44.)  The court therefore finds that Physician
Defendants have shown that they did not (1) breach their duty to competently
care for Decedent and, further, their duty to plaintiff Arteaga, or (2) cause
plaintiff Arteaga emotional distress. 
The court finds that Arteaga has not met her burden to show that a
triable issue of material fact exists as to the elements of Physician
Defendants’ breach of their duties and causation.  Arteaga did not file an opposition to this
motion, and thus has not presented argument or evidence showing that a triable
issue of material fact exists as to whether Physician Defendants negligently
treated Decedent and therefore caused Arteaga’s emotional distress.
The court therefore grants Physician Defendants’ motion for
summary adjudication as to the second cause of action for negligent infliction
of emotional distress. 
3.     Conclusion
Because the court has granted summary adjudication in favor of
Physician Defendants on all of the causes of action alleged in the Complaint,
the court finds that all of the papers submitted show that there is no triable
issue as to any material fact, and that Physician Defendants are entitled
to judgment as a matter of law.  (Code
Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (c).)  The
court therefore grants Physician Defendants’ motion for summary judgment. 
MOTION FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT FILED BY DEFENDANT ADVENTIST
Defendant Adventist moves the court for an order granting summary
judgment in its favor and against Plaintiffs or, in the alternative, summary
adjudication as to each cause of action and the issue of agency between it and
Physician Defendants. 
1.     Plaintiffs’
First Cause of Action for Wrongful Death
To prevail on a cause of action for wrongful death, “plaintiffs
must prove ‘(1) a “wrongful act or neglect” on the part of one or more persons
[(that is, negligence)] that (2) “causes” (3) the “death of [another] person.”
’”  (Musgrove, supra, 82
Cal.App.5th at p. 705.)  
In connection with this cause of action, as alleged against Adventist, Plaintiffs
have alleged that Adventist (1) negligently and carelessly
treated, examined, operated on, and otherwise handled Decedent, and (2)
negligently failed to (i) select a competent medical staff,  (ii) review the competency of its medical
staff, and (iii) monitor its staff. 
(Compl., ¶¶ 13-14.)  Thus,
Plaintiffs have based this cause of action on the alleged medical malpractice
of Adventist’s staff, and Adventist’s alleged negligence in failing to
monitor the competence of its staff.
The court finds that Adventist has met its burden of showing that
the first cause of action for wrongful death has no merit because Adventist has shown
that an element of the cause of action (a wrongful act or neglect on the part
of Adventist) cannot be established since Adventist has submitted evidence showing that
its staff did not (1) breach the standard of care while treating Decedent and
Arteaga during labor and delivery, or (2) cause the death of Decedent.  (San Antonio Regional Hospital, supra,
102 Cal.App.5th at p. 351 [elements of medical malpractice].)     
            First, Adventist has shown that it
may not be held vicariously liable for the acts of Physician Defendants. 
            “A hospital is liable for a
physician’s malpractice when the physician is actually employed by or is the
ostensible agent of the hospital.”  (Franklin
v. Santa Barbara Cottage Hospital (2022) 82 Cal.App.5th 395, 403 [internal
quotations marks and citation omitted].) Adventist has submitted copies of the
“Consent to Surgery or Special Procedure” and the “Conditions of Registration” initialed
by plaintiff Arteaga on April 18, 2022, which state that physicians and
surgeons “are NOT employees of the hospital and have been granted the
privilege of using the hospital for the care and treatment of their patients.”  (Def. Ex. 2, Arteaga Med. Records, PDF p. 85,
¶ 3; Def. Ex. 6, Conditions of Registration, PDF p. 75, ¶ 3.)  Thus, Adventist has shown that (1) it did not
employ Physician Defendants, such that Physician Defendants were not the agents
of Adventist, and (2) Physician Defendants were not the ostensible agents of
Adventist, because (i) Adventist gave Arteaga actual notice that they were not
its employees, and (ii) there is no evidence suggesting that Arteaga was unable
to understand that information.  (Franklin,
supra, 82 Cal.App.5th at pp. 403 [“‘An agency is actual when the agent
is really employed by the principal’”], 405 [“a hospital may be liable for
their negligence on an ostensible agency theory, unless” it gives the patient
actual notice that the physicians are not hospital employees and there is no
reason to believe the patient was unable to understand or act on the
information].) 
            Second, as to its employees,
Adventist has shown that its staff did not cause breach their duties of care
and did not cause the death of Decedent. 
Adventist has submitted the declarations of (1) Dr. Kessler, a physician
licensed by the American Board of Obstetrics and Gynecologists since 1982, and
(2) Dr. Friedlich, a licensed physician and current Co-Director of the Fetal
and Neonatal Institute & Division Chief in the Division of
Neonatology.  (Dr. Kessler Decl., ¶¶ 2-3;
Dr. Friedlich Decl., ¶ 2.)  Both expert
physicians have set forth the following history. 
On April 18, 2022, plaintiff Arteaga presented to Adventist at
39.0 weeks pregnant.  (Dr. Kessler Decl.,
¶ 7, subd. (a); Dr. Friedlich Decl., ¶ 6, subd. (a).)  Induction of Arteaga was recommended for
non-reassuring fetal heart tracings. 
(Dr. Kessler Decl., ¶ 7, subd. (b); Dr. Friedlich Decl., ¶ 6, subd.
(b).)  From 12:00 p.m. to 5:00 p.m., the
fetal heart tracings were noted as Category 1, with moderate variability and no
accelerations or decelerations.  (Dr.
Kessler Decl., ¶ 7, subd. (c); Dr. Friedlich Decl., ¶ 6, subd. (c).)  At 8:30 p.m., the fetal heart monitor tracings
were noted as Category 1.  (Dr. Kessler
Decl., ¶ 7, subd. (h); Dr. Friedlich Decl., ¶ 6, subd. (h).)  At 9:00 p.m., nurse Pena noted the fetal
heart monitor tracings as Category 2. 
(Dr. Kessler Decl., ¶ 7, subd. (i); Dr. Friedlich Decl., ¶ 6, subd.
(i).)  Arteaga was thereafter turned on
her side.  (Ibid.)  The fetal heart monitor tracings were noted
as Category 1 at approximately 10:00 p.m. 
(Dr. Kessler Decl., ¶ 7, subd. (k); Dr. Friedlich Decl., ¶ 6, subd.
(k).)  At 10:30 p.m. and 11:00 p.m.,
nurse Pena noted the tracings as Category 1 with moderate variability and no
accelerations or decelerations.  (Dr.
Kessler Decl., ¶ 7, subds. (l), (m); Dr. Friedlich Decl., ¶ 6, subds. (l),
(m).)  However, at 11:30 p.m., nurse Pena
noted the tracings as Category 3 and a sinusoidal pattern with no variability,
accelerations, or decelerations.  (Dr.
Kessler Decl., ¶ 7, subd. (n); Dr. Friedlich Decl., ¶ 6, subd. (n).)  The nurse notified the physicians of the
Category 3 tracings and the sinusoidal patterns.  (Ibid.) 
At approximately 12:07 a.m., Dr. Liao was at Arteaga’s
bedside.  (Dr. Kessler Decl., ¶ 7, subd.
(o); Dr. Friedlich Decl., ¶ 6, subd. (o).) 
At approximately 12:20 a.m., the order was given for an emergency
cesarean section, at which time Dr. Simko noted the indications, risks, and
alternatives for the procedure with Arteaga. 
(Dr. Kessler Decl., ¶ 7, subd. (q); Dr. Friedlich Decl., ¶ 6, subd.
(q).)  Physician Defendants performed the
cesarean section on Arteaga at 12:32 a.m. 
(Dr. Kessler Decl., ¶ 7, subd. (r); Dr. Friedlich Decl., ¶ 6, subd.
(r).)  Decedent was delivered at 12:33
a.m.  (Dr. Kessler Decl., ¶ 7, subd. (s);
Dr. Friedlich Decl., ¶ 6, subd. (s).) 
Upon delivery, Decedent was noted to be inactive, limp, blue and pale in
color, and was therefore transferred to the neonatal intensive care unit.  (Dr. Kessler Decl., ¶ 7, subds. (s), (t); Dr.
Friedlich Decl., ¶ 6, subds. (s), (t).)  An abdominal ultrasound was performed on
Decedent.  (Dr. Kessler Decl., ¶ 7, subd.
(x); Dr. Friedlich Decl., ¶ 6, subd. (x).)  Thereafter, Decedent received hypothermic
treatment for persistent moderate encephalopathy.  (Dr. Kessler Decl., ¶ 7, subd. (y); Dr.
Friedlich Decl., ¶ 6, subd. (y).) 
“Despite numerous medications, transfusions of packed red blood cells
and plasma, and therapeutic cooling measures, [Decedent] remained unstable” and
her oxygen saturation and heart rate decreased. 
(Ibid.)  Decedent passed
away at 12:35 a.m.  (Dr. Kessler Decl., ¶
7, subd. (aa); Dr. Friedlich Decl., ¶ 6, subd. (aa).) 
Dr. Kessler concluded, based on their review of the records and their
experience, that   (1) the monitoring of
Arteaga’s labor progress by Adventist’s nurses and employees was
appropriate and within the standard of care because the nursing evaluations
were completed approximately every hour; (2) when the fetal heart tracings
showed abnormal rhythms, the nurses appropriately performed interventions, such
as position changes; (3) the time between making the decision to perform the
cesarean, performing the cesarean, and delivering Decedent were timely,
appropriate, and within the standard of care; and (4) the acts of the nurses
and physicians did not (i) cause or contribute to any delay in timely
delivering Decedent, or (ii) cause or contribute to the death of Decedent.  (Dr. Kessler Decl., ¶ 8, subds. (a)-(f),
(k).)  Dr. Kessler further concluded that
Decedent had a chronic bleed in utero, and that there “was nothing on the fetal
heart rate tracing to indicate possible fetal anemia until the sinusoidal
pattern started around 11:30 p.m.[,]” at which time the physicians appeared and
subsequently performed the cesarean section. 
(Dr. Kessler Decl., ¶ 8, subds. (k), (g).)  
Dr. Friedlich similarly concluded that Adventist’s employees
and nursing personnel did not cause or contribute to the death of Decedent,
including because (1) the cord blood glasses at birth demonstrated that there
was no intrapartum hypoxic event during the delivery process, such that nothing
that occurred during labor and delivery made the baby’s preexisting chronic
anemia worse, (2) the sinusoidal heart rate pattern that Decedent developed
which led to the emergency cesarean was due to Decedent losing blood for at
least one week before delivery, and (3) earlier delivery would not have changed
the outcome, since Decedent was severely anemic at least 72 hours before
birth.  (Dr. Friedlich Decl., ¶ 8, subds.
(a), (d), (g).) 
Thus, the court finds that Adventist has met its burden to show that its
staff did not, in handling the labor of plaintiff Arteaga and delivery and care
of Decedent, breach the standard of care or cause the death of Decedent.  (San Antonio Regional Hospital, supra,
102 Cal.App.5th at p. 351 [elements of medical malpractice]; Ibid.
[elements of standard of care and causation requires competent expert
testimony]; Compl., ¶ 12)  Moreover, the
court finds that this evidence shows that Adventist did not cause the death of
Decedent by employing and failing to monitor incompetent staff.  (Compl., ¶ 14.)  The court therefore finds that Adventist has
met its burden to submit evidence showing that it did not commit a wrongful or
negligent act that caused the death of Decedent.  (Musgrove, supra, 82
Cal.App.5th at p. 705.)
The court finds that Plaintiffs have not met their burden to show
that a triable issue of material fact exists as to the element of a wrongful or
negligent act on the part of Adventist that caused the death of Decedent.  Plaintiffs did not file an opposition to this
motion, and therefore have not presented argument or evidence showing that a
triable issue of material fact exists as to whether (1) Adventist’s staff’s
delivery, treatment, and care of Decedent caused Decedent’s death, or (2)
Adventist’s monitoring of incompetent and negligent staff caused Decedent’s
death.
The court therefore grants Adventist’s motion for summary
adjudication as to the first cause of action for wrongful death.
2.     Plaintiff
Arteaga’s Second Cause of Action for Negligent Infliction of Emotional Distress
The “‘ “negligent causing of emotional distress is not an
independent tort but the tort of negligence . . . .”  [Citation.] 
“The traditional elements of duty, breach of duty, causation, and
damages apply.” ’”  (Eriksson, supra,
233 Cal.App.4th at p. 729 [internal emphasis omitted]; Romero, supra,
91 Cal.App.5th at p. 567 [“The elements of a negligence cause of action are 1)
the existence of a duty, 2) a breach of that duty, 3) injury to the plaintiff
caused by the defendant’s breach, and 4) actual damages”].)  
The court finds that Adventist has met its burden of showing that
the second cause of action for negligent infliction of emotional distress has
no merit because Adventist has shown that an element of the cause of action (that
Adventist breached its duty of care to Arteaga and caused her severe emotional
distress) cannot be established.  
Plaintiff Arteaga’s second cause of action is based on the same
facts alleged in connection with the first cause of action, i.e., that
Adventist failed to provide the necessary medical treatment to Arteaga and
Decedent, which caused Arteaga emotional distress “arising from the abnormal
event of participating in a negligent delivery and labor” of Decedent.  (Compl., ¶ 23.)  As set forth above, the court finds that
Adventist has met its burden to show that its staff did not breach the standard of
care in delivering Decedent and did not cause the death of Decedent.  (Dr. Kessler Decl., ¶ 8, subds. (a)-(f), (k);
Dr. Friedlich Decl., ¶ 8, subds. (a), (d), (g).) Based on this evidence, the
court finds that Adventist has shown that it did not breach its duty to
completely care for Decedent, and thus did not breach its duty of care to
Arteaga, and did not cause plaintiff Arteaga emotional distress. 
The court finds that Arteaga has not met her burden to show that a
triable issue of material fact exists as to the elements of Adventist’s
breach of its duty to plaintiff Arteaga and causation.  Arteaga did not file an opposition to this
motion, and thus has not presented argument or evidence showing that a triable
issue of material fact exists as to whether Adventist’s staff negligently cared for and
delivered Decedent and therefore caused plaintiff Arteaga’s emotional distress.
The court therefore grants Adventist’s motion for summary
adjudication as to the second cause of action for negligent infliction of
emotional distress.
3.     Conclusion
Because the court has granted summary adjudication in favor of
Adventist on each cause of action alleged in Plaintiffs’ Complaint, the court
finds that all of the papers submitted show that there is no triable issue as
to any material fact, and that Adventist is entitled to judgment as a matter of
law.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd.
(c).)  The court therefore grants
Adventist’s motion for summary judgment. 
ORDER
The court grants defendants Cinna Toy Wohlmuth, M.D., and Sarah Simko,
M.D.’s motion for summary judgment on plaintiffs Italia Arteaga and Henry Ron’s
Complaint.
The court grants defendant White Memorial Medical Center d/b/a
Adventist Health White Memorial’s motion for summary judgment on plaintiffs
Italia Arteaga and Henry Ron’s Complaint. 
The court orders (1) defendants Cinna Toy Wohlmuth, M.D., and Sarah
Simko, M.D. to prepare, serve, and lodge a proposed judgment of their dismissal
no later than 10 days from the date of this order, and (2) defendant White
Memorial Medical Center d/b/a Adventist Health White Memorial to prepare,
serve, and lodge a proposed judgment of its dismissal no later than 10 days
from the date of this order. 
The court orders that the final status conference set for March 14,
2025 is vacated. 
The court orders that trial set for March 26, 2025 is vacated. 
The court sets an Order to Show Cause re entry of judgment for hearing
on January 21, 2025, at 8:30 a.m., in Department 53.
The court orders defendant White Memorial Medical Center d/b/a
Adventist Health White Memorial to give notice of this ruling.
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
DATED:  September 12, 2024
 
_____________________________
Robert
B. Broadbelt III
Judge
of the Superior Court