  Case Number:  22STCV31468    Hearing Date:   September 12, 2024    Dept:  53 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles – Central District
Department
53
 
 




j cellars investments, llc, d/b/a joseph
  cellars winery

   , et al.;
 


   Plaintiffs,
 
 
vs.
 
 
hdi global insurance company

   , et al.;
 


   Defendants.


Case
  No.:


22STCV31468




 


 




Hearing
  Date:


September
   12, 2024




 


 




Time:





   10:00 a.m.




 


 




 
[Tentative]
  Order RE:
 
defendant’s motion for summary judgment or,
  in the alternative, summary adjudication
 



 
MOVING PARTY:                Defendant HDI Global Insurance
Company
 
RESPONDING PARTIES:     Plaintiffs J Cellars Investments, LLC,
d/b/a Joseph Cellars Winery, and Joseph Bartholomew  
Motion for Summary Judgment or, in the Alternative, Summary
Adjudication
The court
considered the moving, opposition, and reply papers filed in connection with
this motion. 
REQUEST FOR JUDICIAL NOTICE
The court grants defendant HDI
Global Insurance Company’s request for judicial notice.  (Evid. Code, § 452, subd. (c).) 
EVIDENTIARY OBJECTIONS  
The court rules on defendant HDBI Global Insurance Company’s
evidentiary objections, filed on August 23, 2024, as follows:
The court sustains Objections Nos. 1-2. 
The court overrules Objections Nos. 3-5.
LEGAL STANDARD
The purpose of a motion for summary judgment or summary
adjudication “is to provide courts with a mechanism to cut through the parties’
pleadings in order to determine whether, despite their allegations, trial is in
fact necessary to resolve their dispute.” 
(Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co.
(2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 843.)  “Code
of Civil Procedure section 437c, subdivision (c), requires the trial judge to
grant summary judgment if all the evidence submitted, and ‘all inferences
reasonably deducible from the evidence’ and uncontradicted by other inferences
or evidence, show that there is no triable issue as to any material fact and
that the moving party is entitled to judgment as a matter of law.”  (Adler
v. Manor Healthcare Corp. (1992) 7 Cal.App.4th 1110, 1119.)
“On a motion for summary judgment, the initial burden is always on
the moving party to make a prima facie showing that there are no triable issues
of material fact.”  (Scalf v. D.B. Log Homes, Inc. (2005) 128 Cal.App.4th 1510,
1519.)  A defendant or cross-defendant
moving for summary judgment or summary adjudication “has met his or her burden
of showing that a cause of action has no merit if the party has shown that one
or more elements of the cause of action . . . cannot be established, or that
there is a complete defense to the cause of action.”  (Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 437c, subd. (p)(2).)  “Once the
defendant or cross-defendant has met that burden, the burden shifts to the
plaintiff or cross-complainant to show that a triable issue of one or more
material facts exists as to the cause of action or a defense thereto.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (p)(2).)  “If the plaintiff cannot do so, summary
judgment should be granted.”  (Avivi v. Centro
Medico Urgente Medical Center (2008) 159 Cal.App.4th 463, 467.)  “When deciding whether to grant summary
judgment, the court must consider all of the evidence set forth in the papers
(except evidence to which the court has sustained an objection), as well as all
reasonable inferences that may be drawn from that evidence, in the light most
favorable to the party opposing summary judgment.”  (Id. at
p. 467; Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (c).)
DISCUSSION
Defendant HDI Global Insurance Company
(“Defendant”) moves the court for an order granting its motion for summary
judgment on the Complaint filed by plaintiffs J Cellars Investment LLC, d/b/a
Joseph Cellars Winery, and Joseph Bartholomew (“Plaintiffs”) or, in the
alternative, summary adjudication on the second cause of action for breach of
the covenant of good faith and fair dealing and Plaintiffs’ claim for punitive
damages.

1.     First
Cause of Action for Breach of Contract
“‘A cause of action for breach of contract requires proof of the
following elements: (1) existence of the contract; (2) plaintiff’s performance
or excuse for nonperformance; (3) defendant’s breach; and (4) damages to
plaintiff as a result of the breach.’”  (Miles
v. Deutsche Bank National Trust Co. (2015) 236 Cal.App.4th 394, 402.) 
Defendant issued the Commercial Lines Policy, number
GK28X000385-01, for the period of May 16, 2020 to May 16, 2021 (the “Policy”)
to plaintiff Joseph Cellars Winery, LLC, located at 4455 St. Helena Highway,
Calistoga, California 94515 (the “Insured Property”).  (Undisputed Material Fact (“UMF”) No.
1.)  On September 28, 2020, the City of
Calistoga issued a mandatory evacuation order for the city due to the Glass
Fire, which lasted until October 7, 2020. 
(UMF No. 10; RJN Ex. A, p. 1 [excerpt of City of Calistoga Mandatory
Evacuation from September 28, 2020 to October 7, 2020].)  Plaintiffs submitted a claim to Defendant for
losses caused by the Glass Fire on October 19, 2020.  (Def. Compendium of Evidence (“Def. Ex.”),
Ex. 3, Property Loss Notice, p. 00068 [describing loss and damage to be the
“sustained Business Income loss due to mandatory evacuation orders from the
Glass Fire”].)  Defendant paid a total of
$159,588 to Plaintiffs on June 21, 2021, consisting of $147,708 paid under the
“Loss of Income – Civil Authority” provision, and $11,800 paid under the “Extra
Expense” provision to rent a generator. 
(UMF No. 37; Corenevsky Decl., ¶ 5; Morris Decl., ¶¶ 10-12.)  
Plaintiffs allege that Defendant breached the Policy “by failing
to pay [P]laintiffs all the sums due and owing under the insurance
contract.”  (Compl., ¶ 20.)   In its
motion, Defendant contends that (1) it paid all benefits required for (i) covered
equipment damage and (ii) lost business income for Plaintiffs’ custom crush and
tasting room revenues, and (2) there is no coverage for damage caused to the
air conditioning unit and the lost business income related to the 2020 Estate
Cabernet Sauvignon wine (the “2020 Estate Wine”).  
 
a.      Covered
Equipment Damage
The court finds that Defendant has not met its burden of showing
that the first cause of action for breach of contract has no merit because
Defendant has not shown that the element of breach of the Policy cannot be
established as to Plaintiffs’ claim for losses relating to the damaged
generator.
The Policy states that Defendant “will pay for direct physical
loss of or damage to ‘buildings’, ‘business personal property’ or ‘stock’
caused by or resulting from a peril not otherwise excluded, not to exceed the
applicable Blanket Limit of Insurance for ‘buildings’, ‘business personal
property’ and/or ‘stock’ described in the Declarations caused by or resulting
from any Covered Cause of Loss.”  (Def.
Ex. 2, Policy, p. 20, § I, subd. (A); UMF No. 2.)  Excluded from the Policy are losses caused by
or resulting from, inter alia, wear and tear, rust, corrosion,
deterioration, or faulty, inadequate, or defective design, workmanship, repair,
or maintenance.  (Def. Ex. 2, Policy, p.
22, § II, subds. (B)(3), (B)(4), (D)(3)(b), (D)(3)(d); UMF No. 8.)  Here, Plaintiffs submitted claims for losses
relating to (1) an air conditioning unit, and (2) damage to a generator.  (UMF No. 29; LeRose Decl., ¶¶ 6, 9.)  
The court acknowledges that Defendant has presented evidence
showing that (1) the broken air conditioner unit was determined to have stopped
working due to the loss of refrigeration, caused by a pinhole in a copper tube rubbing
against another copper tube hard enough to puncture a hole through it, such
that (2) it was not a covered loss since the loss of refrigeration was caused
by wear and tear and deterioration.  (LeRose
Decl., ¶ 8; Corenevsky Decl., ¶ 7; Def. Ex. 4, p. 00856 [letter denying claim
for the damage to the HVAC system]; Def. Ex. 2, Policy, p. 22, § II, subd.
(B)(3), (B)(4) [excluding from coverage damage caused by wear and tear and
deterioration].)  However, Defendant did
not present evidence showing that it did not breach the Policy as a result of
its failure to cover the loss associated with the damaged generator.
Defendant asserts that, although it initially denied coverage for
the replacement of the generator, Defendant has since “paid the full policy
sublimit of $25,000.”  (Mot., p.
20:16-21.)  However, Defendant did not
present evidence showing that it has actually paid that amount to
Plaintiffs.  The evidence cited in
support of this assertion consists of (1) a letter to counsel for Plaintiffs,
in which Defendant stated that, based on new information, it had reevaluated
coverage for the generator and “will cover the replacement value of the
generator up to the $25,000 sublimit for that coverage provided by the Utility
Services – Direct Damage coverage” provision, and (2) the declaration of Inez
Corenevsky, an Assistant Vice President of Claims for Defendant, in which
Corenevsky stated the same, including that Defendant “will cover” the value of
the generator up to the $25,000 sublimit. 
(Def. Material Fact No. 48 [citing Corenevsky Decl., ¶ 10 and Ex. 7];
Def. Ex. 7, pp. 1, 2 [internal emphasis omitted]; Corenevsky Decl., ¶ 10.)  However, this evidence does not show that
Defendant has paid to Plaintiffs that amount. 
(Ibid.)  At most, it
reflects a future intent to pay this amount. 
Thus, the court finds that Defendant has not shown that it has not
breached the Policy because the evidence submitted by Defendant shows that (1) the
damaged generator is a covered loss pursuant to the provisions of the Policy,
and (2) Defendant did not cover that loss by paying the $25,000 sublimit to
Plaintiffs.  (Def. Ex. 2, Policy, p. 35,
§ III, ¶ C, subd. 21 [providing coverage for loss of or damage to business
personal property caused by an interruption in utility services to the Insured
Premises].)  
b.     Lost
Business Income for Custom Crush and Tasting Room Revenues
The court finds that Defendant has met its burden of showing that
the first cause of action for breach of contract has no merit because Defendant
has shown that an element of the cause of action (Defendant’s breach of the
Policy as to Plaintiffs’ claims relating to their lost revenues for custom
crushing services and their tasting room) cannot be established.
The Civil Authority Endorsement provision of the Policy provides
that Defendant will pay for the actual loss of business income sustained by the
insured and the necessary extra expense “caused by action of civil authority
that prohibits access to the described premises due to a direct physical loss
of or damage to property, other than at the described premises, caused by or
resulting from a Covered Cause of Loss.” 
(Def. Ex. 2, Policy, p. 69 [modifying Civil Authority provision].)  “Business Income” is defined to mean (1) the
net income (i.e., the net profit or loss before income taxes) that would have
been earned or incurred, and (2) continuing normal operating expenses incurred,
including ordinary payroll.  (Def. Ex. 2,
Policy, p. 46, § VIII, ¶ D; UMF No. 6.)  Civil
authority coverage for lost business income “begin[s] immediately after the
time of the first action of civil authority that prohibits access to the
described premise” and applies “for a period of up to three (3) consecutive
weeks from the date on which such coverage began.”  (Def. Ex. 2, Policy, p. 69 [modifying Civil
Authority provision].) 
Defendant has submitted evidence showing that it paid to
Plaintiffs $147,708 for lost business income under the Civil Authority Coverage
provision of the Policy, calculated by an accountant at the accounting firm
Matson, Driscoll & Damico LLP (“MDD”), which was hired by Defendant’s
third-party claim administrator.  (UMF
No. 28; Morris Decl., ¶¶ 1-2, 10-12.)  Accountant
Lisa Morris (“Morris”) determined that (1) Plaintiffs sustained $169,939 in
lost revenue for red wines, no loss for white wines, and $22,639 in lost
tasting room revenue, for a net lost income amount of $192,578, (2) Plaintiffs
would have incurred $23,417 in costs of goods sold, and (3) Plaintiffs would
have incurred $21,453 in non-continuing expenses.  (Morris Decl., ¶¶ 8 [lost custom crushing
revenue], 9 [lost tasting room revenue], 10 [net lost income], 11-12
[non-continuing expenses]; UMF No. 22 [Plaintiffs did not sustain loss of
business income related to white wine].)  Thus, Defendant has shown that Plaintiffs sustained,
and Defendant paid, a total net loss of income of $147,708 (($169,939 +
$22,639) – ($23,417 + $21,453)).  (UMF
No. 37.) 
The court finds that Plaintiffs have met their burden to show that
a triable issue of material fact exists as to the element of Defendant’s breach
of the Policy by showing that there is a triable issue of material fact as to
whether Defendant paid to Plaintiffs all amounts owed for the lost revenue
related to Plaintiffs’ custom crushing services. 
First, the court notes that Plaintiffs have argued that Defendant
failed to pay the “actual loss of business income due to the shutdown of its
tasting room, which was $12,943.27.” 
(Opp., pp. 5:10-12, 7:1-2.)  However, Defendant has presented evidence
showing that, of the $147,708 paid for lost revenue, $22,639 was allocated to
compensate for the lost tasting room revenue for the covered period.  (Morris Decl., ¶ 9.)  Thus, Plaintiffs have not shown that a triable
issue of material fact exists as to whether Defendant has breached the Policy
by failing to pay Plaintiffs all amounts due and owing for lost tasting room
revenues. 
Second, Plaintiffs assert that Defendant owes additional amounts in
lost revenue related to their custom crush services on the ground that
Defendant deducted certain costs of goods sold and non-recurring expenses that would
not have been incurred had Plaintiffs been permitted to operate their business.  (Opp., pp. 5:20-23, 7:3-5.)  
Plaintiff Bartholomew has asserted, in his declaration, that
“[n]one of [Plaintiffs’] custom crush clients pay their tonnage fees by credit
card[,]” and “[t]he same is true for Freight / Shipping / Postage and retail
merchandise.”  (Bartholomew Decl., ¶ 23.)  However, Defendant deducted from its payment
$5,161 in bank and credit card fees and $9,398 in freight, shipping, and
postage fees.  (Morris Decl., ¶ 11.)  Thus, the court finds that Plaintiffs have met
their burden to show that a triable issue of material fact exists as to whether
Defendant properly deducted those expenses from Plaintiffs’ net lost business
income, such that Plaintiffs have shown that a triable issue of material fact
exists as to whether Defendant breached the Policy by failing to pay to
Plaintiffs all amounts due and owing thereunder. 
Third, Plaintiffs contend that Defendant failed to pay them
$78,061 (representing a total amount of 80 tons of lost grapes) for lost
business income from custom crush clients. 
(Bartholomew Decl., ¶ 25; Opp., p. 7:6-8.)  
The parties agree that Plaintiffs provided a spreadsheet
reflecting that 80 tons of red wine grapes were not received from three
wineries due to the evacuation order. 
(UMF No. 18; Morris Decl., ¶ 5; Def. Ex. 18, p. 00334 [chart setting
forth 80 total tons not received for the timeframe of September 28 to October
11].)  Defendant submitted evidence, in
support of its moving papers, showing that (1) Morris requested from Plaintiffs
documents “that demonstrated that 80 tons were actually crushed, but not sold,”
but that Plaintiffs did not provide those documents, such that (2) Morris—not
having received actual loss data for 2020—relied on the California Department
of Food and Agriculture 2020 Grape Crush Final Report dated March 10, 2021 in
calculating Plaintiffs’ loss to be approximately 55 tons. (Morris Decl., ¶¶ 5
[emphasis in original omitted], 6.)  
In opposition, Plaintiffs have submitted the declaration of
individual plaintiff Bartholomew, in which Bartholomew states that Plaintiffs
“provided to the company [i.e., the accounting firm MDD] information about the
80 contracted for tons of red grapes that we did not receive because of the
fires[,]” but that Defendant accepted MDD’s suggestion to reduce the tonnage
amount from 80 tons to 55 tons.  (Bartholomew
Decl., ¶ 26.)  It is unclear whether
Plaintiffs are referring to the spreadsheet transmitted to MDD, which may have
been unsupported by documentation.  (Def.
Ex. 18, p. 3.)  However, liberally
construing this evidence in favor of Plaintiffs, the court finds that
Plaintiffs have submitted evidence showing that a triable issue of material
fact exists as to whether (1) Plaintiffs presented evidence to Defendant
establishing that they lost 80, rather than 55 tons, of red wine grapes, such
that (2) Defendant failed to pay to Plaintiffs lost revenue in the amount of
$78,061 for the additional loss of 25 tons of red grapes, such that Defendant
breached the Policy by failing to pay Plaintiffs all amounts due and owing
thereunder.  (Bartholomew Decl., ¶ 26;
Morris Decl., ¶ 8 [calculating $169,939 in lost revenue for red wine based on
54.819 lost tons at the rate of $3,100].) 
c.      Lost
Business Income for 2020 Estate Wine
The court finds that Defendant has not met its burden of showing
that the first cause of action for breach of contract has no merit because
Defendant has not shown that the element of breach of the Policy cannot be
established as to Plaintiffs’ claim for lost business income relating to the
2020 Estate Wine. 
By letter dated September 7, 2022, Plaintiffs asserted that
Defendant failed to pay $1,666,350 for their loss of business income pursuant
to the Civil Authority Endorsement provision of the Policy on the ground that the
civil authorities prevented Plaintiffs from accessing the vineyard and
harvesting 22.14 tons of Cabernet Sauvignon, which subsequently caused smoke
damage to the grapes, and therefore prevented Plaintiffs from producing the
2020 Estate Wine.  (Def. Ex. 5, p.
01386.)  Defendant denied this claim for
coverage on the ground that Plaintiffs did not suffer actual loss during the
evacuation period because the grapes were still on the vine during the Glass
Fire.  (Corenevsky Decl., ¶ 9.)
As set forth above, the Policy provides that Defendant will pay
for the actual loss of business income (defined to mean the net income that
would have been earned and continuing normal operating expenses incurred) sustained
by Plaintiffs and the necessary extra expenses “caused by action of civil
authority that prohibits access to the described premises due to direct
physical loss of or damage to property, other than at the described premises,
caused by or resulting from any Covered Cause of Loss.”  (Def. Ex. 2, Policy, p. 69; Def. Ex. 2,
Policy, p. 46, § VIII, ¶ D; UMF No. 6.)  The
coverage for business income “begin[s] immediately after the time of the first
action of civil authority that prohibits access to the described premises and
will apply for a period of up to three (3) consecutive weeks from the date on
which such coverage began.”  (Def. Ex. 2,
Policy, p. 69.) 
In submitting their claim to Defendant, Plaintiffs stated that,
“when the Glass fire broke out, the 2020 Estate Vineyard Cabernet Sauvignon did
not have smoke damage, and it was ready to be harvested and processed into
[Plaintiffs’] flagship wine.  [Citation.]  However, because of the fire damage at
neighboring properties, and from 9/28/20 through the early afternoon of
10/07/20, the civil authorities prevented [Plaintiffs] from accessing its
Estate vineyard and harvesting 22.14 tons of Cabernet Sauvignon in it.  Because that 2,881 gallons of Cabernet
Sauvignon could not be moved to the safety of the caves and the fermenting
process, it became smoke damaged.”  (Def.
Ex. 5, p. 01386.)  Plaintiffs further
advised Defendant that they were able to produce a 2020 Cabernet Sauvignon that
could be sold at $35 per bottle, rather than the $150 per bottle price for the
2020 Estate Wine.  (Id. at pp.
01386, 01403 [showing 2020 Estate Wine to be priced at $150 per bottle].)  Thus, Plaintiffs asserted their lost revenue
associated with the 2020 Estate Wine to be $1,666,350.  (Ibid.)  
First, Defendant asserts that this loss is not covered by the
Policy because Plaintiffs did not sustain “actual loss of ‘Business Income’” as
required by the Civil Authority Endorsement provision since (1) an insured
“sustain[s] its burden of proof of the loss of net profits ordinarily [by]
determining (a) the total cost, including depreciation, of manufacturing the
merchandise[,] the production of which is prevented during the period of the
use and occupancy coverage . . . and, (b) the price at which the product would
have been sold in that period, either by prior sales agreement or the current
market price in the absence of such commitments[,]” and (2) the grapes were on
the vine during the Glass Fire, such that no wine could have been processed or
sold during the evacuation period.  (General
Ins. Co. of America v. Pathfinder Petroleum Co. (9th Cir. 1944) 145 F.2d
368, 369 [internal footnote omitted]; Mot., pp. 22:24-23:1.)  However, Defendant did not submit evidence
showing that the wine could not have been processed or sold during the
evacuation period. 
            The court acknowledges, and the
parties appear to agree, that the subject grapes were on the vine at the time
of the Glass Fire.  (Def. Ex. 5, p.
01386.)  Defendant appears to contend
that, because the grapes were on the vine, and eventually suffered smoke
damage, “no wine could have been processed or sold during the evacuation
period.”  (Mot., pp. 22:24-23:1.)  But Plaintiffs did not assert their claim for
coverage on the ground that the grapes were damaged by smoke during the
relevant period.  Instead, Plaintiffs
asserted that they could not produce the 2020 Estate Wine because Plaintiffs
could not access its vineyard, move the Cabernet Sauvignon to the caves, and
produce the 2020 Estate Wine.  (Def. Ex.
5, p. 01386.)  Had Plaintiffs not been
prevented from accessing the Insured Property, Plaintiffs would have been able
to harvest the grapes and produce their wine during the evacuation period. 
            Thus, even though the grapes were on
the vine at the time of the evacuation period, Defendant has not shown that “no
wine could have been processed or sold during” that period.  (Mot., pp. 22:24-23:1.)  Pursuant to the authority cited by Defendant,
the loss of net profits would therefore be calculated by determining (1) the
total cost of manufacturing the 2020 Estate Wine which was prevented during the
evacuation order, and (2) the price at which the 2020 Estate Wine would have
been sold in the covered period (i.e., three consecutive weeks from September
28, 2020 (the date on which coverage began)). 
(General Ins. Co. of America, supra, 145 F.2d at p. 369.)  Defendant did not provide coverage to
Plaintiffs pursuant to this provision. 
(Corenevsky Decl., ¶ 9 [“On March 14, 2023, I sent a letter . . .
denying coverage for the 2020 Estate Claim”].) 
            Second, Defendant asserts that there
is no coverage for smoke damage to the unharvested grapes under the Policy,
such that the smoke damage to Plaintiffs’ grapes was not covered.  
            It is undisputed that the Policy (1)
provides coverage for direct physical loss or damage to trellis or grape vines
at the Insured Property if it is caused by the perils delineated in the Policy,
but (2) excludes from its coverage “grapes growing on grape vines . . . .”  (Def. Ex. 2, Policy, p. 25, § III, ¶ A, subd.
(1)(a); UMF No. 4.)  However, as set
forth above, Plaintiffs have not asserted a claim seeking coverage for the
smoke damage caused to the grapes, but rather the lost income sustained by
Plaintiffs due to their inability to, pursuant to the evacuation order, harvest
their grapes and produce the 2020 Estate Wine. 

            Thus, the court finds that Defendant
has not met its burden to show that it did not breach the Policy (i.e., the
Civil Authority Endorsement provision) by denying Plaintiffs’ claim for lost
income related to the 2020 Estate Wine.
d.      Conclusion
For the reasons set forth above, the court finds that (1)
Defendant has not met its burden to show that it did not breach the Policy as
to Plaintiffs’ claims for (i) the damaged generator, and (ii) lost business
income relating to the 2020 Estate Wine, and (2) although Defendant has met its
burden to show that it did not breach the Policy as to Plaintiffs’ claims relating
to the lost revenues for custom crush and tasting room, Plaintiffs have shown
that a triable issue of material fact exists as to whether Defendant paid to
Plaintiffs all amounts owed for the loss of custom crushing services.
The court therefore denies Defendant’s motion for summary
adjudication as to the first cause of action for breach of contract.
2.     Second
Cause of Action for Tortious Breach of the Covenant of Good Faith and Fair
Dealing
“[I]n a claim against an insurance carrier, ‘there are at least
two separate requirements to establish breach of the implied covenant: (1)
benefits due under the policy must have been withheld; and (2) the reason for
withholding benefits must have been unreasonable or without proper
cause.’”  (Grebow v. Mercury Ins. Co. (2015)
241 Cal.App.4th 564, 581.)  “‘In a bad
faith case, the “primary test is whether the insurer withheld payment of an
insured’s claim unreasonably and in bad faith. 
[Citation.]  Where benefits are
withheld for proper cause, there is no breach of the implied covenant.”’”  (Janney v. CSAA Ins. Exchange (2021)
70 Cal.App.5th 374, 399.) 
The court finds that Defendant has not met its burden of showing
that the second cause of action for breach of the implied covenant of good
faith and fair dealing has no merit because Defendant has not shown that the
element of Defendant’s unreasonable withholding of benefits cannot be
established.   
First, the court finds that Defendant has shown that it did not
act unreasonably or without proper cause regarding its payment of claims for Plaintiffs’
lost custom crush and tasting room revenues because it relied on the expert
evaluation of Morris, the accountant retained by Defendant’s third-party
administrator, as to the calculation of those lost revenues.  (Morris Decl., ¶¶ 8-12; Corenevsky Decl., ¶ 5;
LeRose Decl., ¶¶ 2-3; McCoy v. Progressive West Ins. Co. (2009) 171
Cal.App.4th 785, 793 [“‘The “genuine dispute” doctrine may be applied where the
insurer denies a claim based on the opinions of experts’” unless the insurer
dishonestly selected the experts, the experts were unreasonable, or the insurer
did not conduct a thorough investigation]; Paslay v. State Farm General Ins.
Co. (2016) 248 Cal.App.4th 639, 653.) 
Second, the court finds that Defendant has shown that it did not
act unreasonably or without proper cause in investigating Plaintiffs’ claim for
2020 Estate Wine coverage because Defendant has submitted evidence showing that,
notwithstanding its position that Plaintiffs are not entitled to coverage under
the Civil Authority Endorsement provision, it also denied Plaintiffs’ claim
because it received detailed information about this claim for the first time on
September 7, 2022, two years after the loss, and therefore Defendant was
prevented from investigating the claim.  (Corenvsky
Decl., ¶¶ 8-9; Def. Ex. 5 [Sept. 7, 2022 letter from counsel for Plaintiffs to
Defendant raising coverage for the lost revenues related to the 2020 Estate
Wine]; Paslay, supra, 248 Cal.App.4th at p. 655 [finding that
there were no triable issues regarding the adequacy of the insurer’s
investigation since the plaintiff-insureds removed damaged property before the
insurer had an opportunity to conduct a full assessment].) 
Third, the court finds that Defendant has not shown that (1) it
did not act unreasonably or without proper cause in initially denying
Plaintiffs’ claim for loss relating to the damaged generator, and (2) it thoroughly
and fairly investigated this claim.  
The court acknowledges, as set forth above, that Defendant asserts
that it initially denied coverage for this claim under the exclusion for wear
and tear of property upon receiving a report from Leete Generators, in which
Leete Generators discovered metal particles in the engine port, which indicated
internal engine damage.  (Def. Ex. 10, p.
0494; LeRose Decl., ¶ 7.)  The court
further acknowledges that reliance on an expert to estimate repair benefits
owed may show that an insurer’s position is maintained in good faith and on
reasonable grounds.  (Paslay, supra,
248 Cal.App.4th at p. 653.)  However, the
report from Leete Generators did not state that the internal engine damage was
caused by normal wear and tear, and instead indicated only that there was
internal engine damage.  Defendant did
not argue, or present evidence showing, that Defendant, or its claims adjuster,
conducted further investigation to identify the cause of the internal damage.  Instead, Defendant merely determined that the
damage was the result of wear and tear. 
(LeRose Decl., ¶ 7.) 
Moreover, Defendant has since conceded that the generator’s engine
was damaged because there was nobody available to check the engine oil levels
during the evacuation period, such that it is a covered loss.  (Corenevsky Decl., ¶ 10.)  Defendant did not present evidence or
argument establishing that its delay in investigating this claim and
discovering this information was in good faith or reasonable.  (Paslay, supra, 248 Cal.App.4th at p.
653 [“The genuine dispute doctrine ‘does not relieve an insurer of its
obligation to thoroughly and fairly investigate, process, and evaluate the
insured’s claim’”].)  Further, as set
forth above, Defendant has not submitted evidence showing that it has paid
Plaintiffs this amount.
Thus, the court finds that Defendant has not shown that its
initial denial of coverage as to the generator was not unreasonable or without
proper cause, or that it thoroughly investigated this claim.[1]
Further, even if Defendant had met its burden to show that all of
its actions were not unreasonable or without proper cause, the court finds that
Plaintiffs have met their burden to show that a triable issue of material fact
exists as to whether Defendant’s denial of their claim for the damaged
generator was unreasonable or without proper cause.  Plaintiffs’ General Manager has attested, in
her declaration, that she informed Daniel LeRose, a claim adjuster with North
American Risk Services (i.e., the third-party administrator acting on behalf of
Defendant), that Leete Generators had determined that “either the generator or
its engine needed to be replaced because that engine had worked so hard during
the time the winery was evacuated that it had ran [sic] out of oil, [and]
continued to run without lubrication until it shut down,” thereby damaging the
engine.  (LeRose Decl., ¶ 1; Blumberg
Decl., ¶ 7.)  Thus, Plaintiffs have
submitted evidence showing that a triable issue of material fact exists as to
whether Defendant knew that the generator was damaged as a result of the
evacuation order (i.e., because the evacuation order prevented Plaintiffs from
checking the engine oil levels) and therefore constituted a covered loss.
The court therefore denies Defendant’s motion for summary
adjudication as to the second cause of action for breach of the implied
covenant of good faith and fair dealing.
3.     Claim
for Punitive Damages
“In an action for the breach of an obligation not arising from
contract, where it is proven by clear and convincing evidence that the
defendant has been guilty of oppression, fraud, or malice, the plaintiff, in
addition to the actual damages, may recover damages for the sake of example and
by way of punishing the defendant.” 
(Civ. Code, § 3294, subd. (a).)  “The
standard for a motion for summary adjudication on a claim for punitive damages
is whether clear and convincing evidence exists to support that claim.  [Citations.] 
While a plaintiff need not prove his or her case for punitive damages to
defeat summary adjudication, [i]n ruling on a motion for summary judgment or
adjudication motion, the judge must view the evidence presented through the
prism of the substantive [clear and convincing] evidentiary burden . . .
.”  (Szarowicz v. Birenbaum (2020)
58 Cal.App.5th 146, 171 [internal citations and quotation marks omitted].) 
The court finds that Defendant has not met its burden of showing
that Plaintiffs’ claim for punitive damages has no merit because Defendant has
not shown that the element of malicious conduct cannot be established.  As set forth above, the court has concluded
that, based on Defendant’s evidence, Defendant (1) unreasonably and without
proper cause initially denied Plaintiffs’ claim relating to the damaged
generator, and (2) failed to thoroughly investigate this claim.  The court finds that this evidence shows that
a triable issue of material fact exists as to whether Defendant’s conduct was
despicable and carried on by Defendant with a willful and conscious disregard
of the rights of Plaintiffs, such that there is a triable issue of material
fact as to whether Defendant is guilty of malice.  (Civ. Code, § 3294, subds. (a), (c)(1).) 
The court therefore denies Defendant’s motion for summary
adjudication as to Plaintiffs’ claim for punitive damages.
ORDER
            The court denies defendant HDI
Global Insurance Company’s motion for summary judgment or, in the alternative,
summary adjudication. 
            The court orders plaintiffs J
Cellars Investments LLC, d/b/a Joseph Cellars Winery, and Joseph Bartholomew to
give notice of this ruling.
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
DATED:  September 12, 2024
 
_____________________________
Robert
B. Broadbelt III
Judge
of the Superior Court


