 Case Number:  24STCV03808    Hearing Date:   August 12, 2024    Dept:  56  
 
SUPERIOR
COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR
THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



DENNIS DEVAUGHN,
  KEITH ANDERSON, CHRISTINA FAVELA, 
                        Plaintiffs,
            vs.
 
TURNING POINT NETWORK LLC, LISA PERONA REYES,
  TRESOR TULANDA, KEVIN LEWIS, 
                                                                             
  
                        Defendants.                 
 
 
AND RELATED CROSS-ACTION.             
 


 


     
  CASE NO.:  24STCV03808
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER RE: 
MOTION FOR PROTECTIVE ORDER RESTRICTING
  DISCOVERY AND TO LIMIT THE EXTENT AND USE OF DISCOVERY METHOD
 
Date: August 12, 2024
Time: 8:30 a.m.
Dept. 56
 
 



 
MOVING PARTY: Defendants
and Cross-Complainants TURNING POINT NETWORK LLC (“TPN”), LISA PERONA REYES, TRESOR
TULANDA, KEVIN LEWIS (collectively, “Defendants”)
 
RESPONDING PARTY: Plaintiffs
and Cross-Defendants DENNIS DEVAUGHN, KEITH ANDERSON, CHRISTINA FAVELA
(collectively, “Plaintiffs”)
 
            The Court has considered the moving
and opposition papers.  No reply has been
filed.  Any reply to the opposition was
required to have been filed and served at least five court days prior to the
hearing.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 1005, subd.
(b).)
 
BACKGROUND
             This action arises from an alleged agreement
between Plaintiffs and Defendants.  On February
14, 2024, Plaintiffs filed a complaint against Defendants asserting the
following causes of action: (1) declaratory relief; (2) damages for breach of
partnership contract; and (3) fraud.
 
            On May 29, 2024, Defendants filed
the instant Motion for Protective Order Restricting Discovery and to Limit the
Extent and Use of Discovery Method (the “Motion”).  On July 30, 2024, Plaintiffs filed an
opposition.
             
DISCUSSION
            Defendants bring this Motion on the basis of Welfare and Institutions
Code (“WIC”) section 5328.  Defendants
contend that under WIC § 5328, all information and records obtained in the
course of providing services to either voluntary or involuntary recipients
shall be confidential.  On this basis,
Defendants move for a protective order prohibiting Plaintiffs from issuing a
subpoena to the California Department of Developmental Services (“DDS”) as well
as to persons employed by the DDS regarding TPN or TPN’s billing or any other
records.
 
            In opposition,
Plaintiffs point out that they do not intend to propound discovery on the DDS,
but rather they intend to subpoena the administrative and financial records of
TPN from regional centers.  (Declaration
of Freddie Fletcher in Opposition to the Motion (“Fletcher Decl.”), ¶ 29.)  Plaintiffs also argue that they have no
intention of seeking confidential information and records of the recipients of
services, but instead they intend to subpoena the financial records of TPN – a
provider of services.  (Id., ¶
32.)  
 
            As an initial matter,
the Court infers from the declaration of Plaintiff’s counsel that no subpoena or
any discovery has yet been served at the time of the filing of the Motion.  (Id., ¶¶ 25-26.)  
 
            California Code of Civil
Procedure (“CCP”) section 2020.010 permits discovery of non-party witnesses
through oral and written depositions. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2020.010(a)(1), (2); Hawkins
v. TACA International Airlines, S.A. (2014) 223 Cal.App.4th 466, 476.) A
deposition subpoena may command the attendance and testimony of the deponent,
the production of business records, or both. (Id., § 2020.020.) CCP
section 1987.1 provides that “[i]f a subpoena requires the attendance of a
witness or the production of books, documents, electronically stored information,
or other things before a court, or at the trial of an issue therein, or at the
taking of a deposition, the court, upon motion reasonably made by [a party or a
witness] . . . may make an order quashing the subpoena entirely, modifying it,
or directing compliance with it upon those terms or conditions as the court
shall declare, including protective orders.”
 
            Thus, a party or
non-party, after service of a subpoena, may seek an order
from the court quashing or modifying it and requesting a protective order.  Defendants cite no basis or authority to
support this Motion seeking to prevent discovery prior to its
service, apart from their reliance on WIC section 5328.
 
WIC section 5328, subdivision
(a) provides, in relevant part, “[a]ll information and records obtained in
the course of providing services under ... to either voluntary or involuntary
recipients of services are confidential.”  The statute, however, goes
on to delineate numerous exceptions pursuant to which
otherwise confidential information “shall be disclosed.”  (Id., § 5328,
subd.(a)(1)–(27).) Pursuant to one such
exception, confidential information is disclosable “[t]o the courts,
as necessary to the administration of justice.”  (Id., § 5328,
subd. (a)(6).)  This provision
“contemplates use of the information or records ‘as necessary to the
administration of justice’ in some pending judicial action or proceeding.” (County
of Riverside v. Superior Court (1974) 42 Cal.App.3d. 478,
481.)  Therefore, “[t]he clear language of Welfare and Institutions
Code section 5328, subdivision [(a)(6)] authorizes the disclosure of
the evidence ... unless such evidence is otherwise nondisclosable.”  (Mavroudis v. Superior Court (1980)
102 Cal.App.3d 594, 602.)
 
Moreover, the Court takes notice of the Regional
Center of Orange County's Guidelines for Access to Vendor Records, which classifies
“documents which contain confidential consumer information” as confidential,
and states that “[c]onfidential records shall be produced pursuant to a valid
subpoena, with identifying consumer information redacted.”  (Fletcher Decl., ¶ 21.) 
 
Therefore, even assuming that records sought to be
discovered are confidential, there are exceptions to allow their discovery
pursuant to a valid subpoena, and procedures are in place to protect the
confidentiality of the information, including redaction of consumer
information.
 
RULING
Accordingly, the Court finds the Motion is without
basis, and is therefore DENIED.
 
Moving
Party is ordered to give notice of this ruling.            
 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at SMC_DEPT56@lacourt.org as directed
by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department does not receive an email
and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion will be placed off
calendar.
 
Dated this 12th day of August 2024
 




 


 




 


Hon. Holly J.
  Fujie
Judge of the
  Superior Court
 




 