 Case Number:  24CHCV00128    Hearing Date:   June 20, 2024    Dept:  F43 Dept. F-43
Date: 6-20-24
Case #24CHCV00128 , Amada America, Inc. vs. Umbrella
Precision, Inc.
Trial Date: N/A
 
APPLICATION FOR PRE-TRIAL WRIT OF POSSESSION AND
TEMPORARY RESTRAINING ORDER
 
MOVING PARTY: Plaintiff
Amada America, Inc.
RESPONDING
PARTY: Umbrella Precision, Inc.
 
RELIEF
REQUESTED
Plaintiff is
requesting possession of a laser cutting machine.
 
RULING: Writ
of possession is granted. The temporary restraining order is denied.
 
SUMMARY OF
ACTION
Defendant
Umbrella Precision, Inc. (Umbrella) bought a Laser Cutting Machine from
Plaintiff Amada America, Inc. (Amada).
 
On April 4,
2024, this Court denied a substantially similar application for temporary
restraining order and a writ of possession. With the current writ, Amada is
arguing, based on what Umbrella says is a mischaracterization of the
declaration, that the declaration of Eduardo Martinez demonstrates that
Umbrella is not properly maintaining the Laser Cutting Machine that it bought
from Amada. Umbrella argues that this was the same contention that Amada made
before. Next, Umbrella argues that Amada also reiterates the claim that
Umbrella does not have insurance coverage to safeguard the Laser Cutter, but Mr.
Martinez previously refuted this allegation by providing proof of insurance.
 
If Amada is
seeking reconsideration of the prior ruling, Umbrella argues in its May 16,
2024, opposition that Amada has not complied with the requirements for
reconsideration because it is untimely and based on improper grounds for
reconsideration.
 
Amada argues in
its supplemental points and authorities, filed on June 6, 2024, that the writ
of possession is proper because Umbrella has defaulted on its contract and owes
$550,000 to Amada. Next, Amada argues that no undertaking is required from it
because Umbrella has no interest in the Laser Cutter. Finally, Amada provides the
location of the Laser Cutter. Amada makes no reference to the issue of
maintenance of the Laser Cutter in its supplemental points and authorities,
beyond a vague reference to the idea that Amada may have to pay to have the
Laser Cutter refurbished if it has suffered any damage or premature attrition.
 
Umbrella filed
a supplemental opposition on June 6, 2024. In this opposition, Umbrella
represents that it offered to have Amada remove the Laser Cutter (which weighs
28,000 pounds) from Umbrella’s facility. Umbrella also offered that Amada could
send someone to inspect the Laser Cutter if it had concerns about the machine’s
condition. Finally, Umbrella also offered to store the Laser Cutter at its
facility for Amada, but would not do so free of charge. Umbrella represents
that there is no dispute that Amada may pick up the Laser Cutter from Umbrella,
so there is no basis for a writ of possession because Umbrella is not
wrongfully detaining the property. (CCP § 512.010(b)(2).) As for the TRO,
Umbrella argues that Amada’s unwillingness to pick up the Laser Cutter
undercuts any notion that there is immediate danger to the Laser Cutter
justifying a TRO. However, none of Umbrella’s representations are supported by
a declaration, so these representations should be disregarded.
 
Plaintiffs’
Request for Judicial Notice: Plaintiff is requesting that the Court take
judicial notice of its declaration for ex parte writ of possession filed on May
15 and Defendant’s opposition to the ex parte writ of possession. The Court grants
this request.
 
ANALYSIS
Because Amada’s
supplemental points and authorities was based solely on the issue of Umbrella’s
failure to pay, the Court will treat this writ as a normally noticed writ of
possession rather than an ex parte writ of possession. Therefore, no showing
needs to be made pursuant to CCP § 512.020(b)(3)(ii) that Umbrella is failing
to properly maintain the Laser Cutter. The only showing needed, as discussed
below, is a showing of the probable validity of Amada’s right to possession.
 
Upon a showing
of the probable validity of a plaintiff’s right to possession of the property
claimed, a writ of possession shall be issued, subject to any possible bond or
undertaking. (CCP § 512.060.) The claim has probable validity “where it is more
likely than not that the plaintiff will obtain a judgment against the defendant
on that claim.” (CCP § 511.090.) Once the requirements for issuance of the writ
are met, CCP § 512.070 authorizes an order directing the defendant to transfer
possession of the property to plaintiff. When necessary, the Court may take
additional oral and documentary evidence at the claim and delivery hearing.
(CCP § 512.050.)
 
With its
supplemental points and authorities filed on June 6, Amada has met the
requirements set forth in the CCP for an application for writ of possession. Amada
has established that it would likely obtain a judgment based on the declaration
and evidence submitted by Amada that Umbrella is in default on its payments
under the contract. Amada is entitled to possession of the Laser Cutter given Umbrella’s
failure to pay. The location of the Laser Cutter is known to be in Umbrella’s
facility on Osborne Street in Canoga Park. 
 
Amada also
argues that no undertaking is required because Umbrella has no interest in the
Laser. (See CCP §§ 512.060(a)(2); 515.010.) Umbrella currently owes $573,416.37
on a machine that is valued at approximately $450,000. (Conniff Decl., ¶¶ 5, 7.)
Amada also holds a valid and enforceable UCC Financing Statement on the Laser
Cutter. (Conniff Decl., Ex. C.) Finally, the Laser Cutter has not been taken
for a tax, assessment, or fine, or seized under an execution against the
property of the plaintiff. (Conniff Decl., ¶ 8; see CCP § 512.010(b)(5).) No
undertaking is required.
 
Based on the
foregoing, Amada has met the requirements for a writ of possession under CCP §
512.060.
 
As for the
temporary restraining, Amada’s supplemental points and authorities do not address
it. The TRO appears to be a non-issue at this point and is denied.
 
CONCLUSION
The Court grants
Amada’s application for the writ of possession. The temporary restraining order
is denied.
 
Amada is
ordered to prepare a proposed writ of possession and submit it to the Court.
 
Moving party to
give notice.