 Case Number:  24SMCV00796    Hearing Date:   October 31, 2024    Dept:  207 TENTATIVE RULING 
 



DEPARTMENT


207




HEARING DATE


October 31, 2024




CASE NUMBER


24SMCV00796




MOTIONS


Demurrer and Motion to Strike Portions of First Amended Cross-Complaint




MOVING PARTY


Cross-Defendant Kevin Southerland




OPPOSING PARTY


Cross-Complainant Maureen Donohue



 
MOTIONS
 
On February 21, 2024, Plaintiff and Cross-Defendant Kevin Southerland
(“Plaintiff”) brought suit against Defendant and Cross-Complainant Maureen
Donohue (“Defendant”) for partition and an accounting.  
 
On April 25, 2024, Defendant filed a Cross-Complaint against
Plaintiff, alleging six causes of action for (1) promissory estoppel; (2)
unjust enrichment; (3) negligent misrepresentation; (4) intentional
misrepresentation; (5) breach of contract; and (6) intentional infliction of
emotional distress.  
 
On July 25, the Court overruled Plaintiff’s demurrer to the first and
second causes of action, but sustained with leave to amend Plaintiff’s demurrer
to the third, fourth, fifth, and sixth causes of action.  The Court also granted Plaintiff’s motion to
strike the requested references to and requests for punitive damages with leave
to amend.
 
Plaintiff now demurs to the third, fourth, and sixth causes of action
alleged in the First Amended Cross-Complaint (“FACC”) on the grounds that they
fail to state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action pursuant to Code
of Civil Procedure, section 430.10, subdivision (e).  Plaintiff also demurs to the fifth cause of
action on the grounds that it fails to specify whether the contract is written,
oral, or implied by conduct, pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section
430.10, subdivision (g).  Plaintiff also
moves to strike requests for punitive damages from the FACC.
 
Defendant opposes both motions and Plaintiff replies.
 
ANALYSIS
 
1.     DEMURRER
 
“It is black letter law that a demurrer tests the legal sufficiency of
the allegations in a complaint.”  (Lewis v. Safeway, Inc. (2015)
235 Cal.App.4th 385, 388.)  In testing the sufficiency of a cause of
action, a court accepts “[a]s true all material facts properly pled and matters
which may be judicially noticed but disregard contentions, deductions or
conclusions of fact or law.  [A court
also gives] the complaint a reasonable interpretation, reading it as a whole
and its parts in their context.”  (290
Division (EAT), LLC v. City & County of San Francisco (2022) 86
Cal.App.5th 439, 450 [cleaned up]; Hacker v. Homeward Residential, Inc.
(2018) 26 Cal.App.5th 270, 280 [“in considering the merits of a demurrer,
however, “the facts alleged in the pleading are deemed to be true, however
improbable they may be”].)
 
Further, in ruling on a demurrer, a court must “liberally construe”
the allegations of the complaint “with a view to substantial justice between
the parties.”  (See Code Civ. Proc., §
452.)  “This rule of liberal construction
means that the reviewing court draws inferences favorable to the plaintiff, not
the defendant.”  (Perez v. Golden Empire Transit Dist. (2012) 209
Cal.App.4th 1228, 1238.)   
 
In summary, “[d]etermining whether the complaint is sufficient as
against the demurrer on the ground that it does not state facts sufficient to
constitute a cause of action, the rule is that if on consideration of all the
facts stated it appears the plaintiff is entitled to any relief at the hands of
the court against the defendants the complaint will be held good although the
facts may not be clearly stated, or may be intermingled with a statement of
other facts irrelevant to the cause of action shown, or although the plaintiff
may demand relief to which he is not entitled under the facts alleged.”  (Gressley v. Williams (1961) 193
Cal.App.2d 636, 639.)
 
A.   
FAILURE TO STATE A CAUSE OF ACTION
 
                                                        
i.         
Third and
Fourth Causes of Action – Negligent and Intentional Misrepresentation
 
The elements for fraudulent
misrepresentation are “(1) the defendant represented to the plaintiff that an important
fact was true; (2) that representation was false; (3) the defendant knew that
the representation was false when the defendant made it, or the defendant made
the representation recklessly and without regard for its truth; (4) the
defendant intended that the plaintiff rely on the representation; (5) the
plaintiff reasonably relied on the representation; (6) the plaintiff was
harmed; and (7) the plaintiff's reliance on the defendant's representation was
a substantial factor in causing that harm to the plaintiff.”  (Graham v. Bank of America, N.A.
(2014) 226 Cal.App.4th 594, 605–606.)  
 
“The essential elements of a
count for negligent misrepresentation are the same [as intentional
misrepresentation] except that it does not require knowledge of falsity but
instead requires a misrepresentation of fact by a person who has no reasonable
grounds for believing it to be true.”  (Chapman
v. Skype Inc. (2013) 220 Cal.App.4th 217, 230-231 (hereafter Chapman).)  Like intentional misrepresentation, causes of
action for negligent misrepresentation sound in fraud, and must also,
therefore, be pleaded with particularity. 
(Ibid.)  
 
“In California, fraud must be
pled specifically; general and conclusory allegations do not suffice.”  (Lazar v. Superior Court (1996) 12
Cal.4th 631, 645.)  “This particularity
requirement necessitates pleading facts which show how, when, where, to whom,
and by what means the representations were tendered.”  (Ibid.)  Causes of action for negligent
misrepresentation sound in fraud, and must also, therefore, be pleaded with
particularity.  (Chapman, supra,
220 Cal.App.4th at pp. 230-231.)  
 
“One of the purposes of the
specificity requirement is notice to the defendant, to furnish the defendant
with certain definite charges which can be intelligently met.”  (Alfaro v. Community Housing Improvement
System & Planning Assn., Inc. (2009) 171 Cal.App.4th 1356, 1384.)  As such, less specificity is required “when
it appears from the nature of the allegations that the defendant must
necessarily possess full information concerning the facts of the
controversy[.]”  (Ibid.)  “Even under the strict rules of common law
pleading, one of the canons was that less particularity is required when the
facts lie more in the knowledge of the opposite party.”  (Ibid.)
 
            Defendant
alleges:
 
7. DONOHUE and SOUTHERLAND (“PARTIES”) were
formally in a romantic relationship. 
 
8. On or about June 2nd, 2022, the parties
purchased the SUBJECT PROPERTY, which consists of a multifamily unit with two
one-bedroom units and one two-bedroom unit (“2922”). The larger one-bedroom
unit (“2924B”) is the larger of the one-bedrooms. It was occupied by tenants at
the time of purchase and remains occupied by the same tenants. The smaller
one-bedroom (“2924A”) was delivered vacant and intended to be occupied by one
of DONOHUE’s daughters. 
 
9. The PARTIES initially purchased the SUBJECT
PROPERTY with the intent to enact the state Ellis Act, which supersedes Santa
Monica Rent Control laws. By going out of the rental business and not renting
the units for several years, the PARTIES would be permitted to force the
tenants to vacate 2924B. DONOHUE has three daughters. At the time of move-in,
the plan was that the two-bedroom and 2924A, the smaller one-bedroom, would be
renovated. The two-bedroom would be occupied by DONOHUE and SOUTHERLAND and
DONOHUE’S eldest daughter, one unit occupied by DONOHUE’s middle daughter, and
the other one-bedroom occupied by DONOHUE’s youngest daughter. Based on this
agreement, DONOHUE moved her family from her home in Ventura, California.
Following the end of the personal relationship between the PARTIES, the new
plan was that DONOHUE’S youngest daughter to be evicted from her home due to
lack of space for her, to Ellis the tenants in 2924B and renovate the unit. The
renovation would take two months. After renovation, DONOHUE would occupy 2924B
with her middle daughters. Her oldest daughter would occupy 2924A. The parties
planned to give the tenants in 2924B the required 120-day notice. The
renovations for 2924B e were expected to take approximately two months.
 
10. The PARTIES anticipated that it would cost
approximately $200,000 to renovate all three units, and planned to complete the
work within a short period of time. The parties initially agreed that they
would obtain a HELOC loan to pay for the renovations. Since SOUTHERLAND paid
the down payment, DONOHUE was to pay the monthly payments on the HELOC. Outside
of the renovation expenses that were anticipated at the time of purchase, the
parties were to equally share the expenses for maintenance and repairs for new
damages incurred on the Property. The mortgage amount each party would pay was
apportioned based on the unit each party was occupying at that time. The
PARTIES were to equally share the expenses related to the rented unit,
including utilities, until the tenants vacated since the PARTIES were
prohibited from charging the tenants any utilities under Santa Monica rent
control. DONOHUE paid for the renovation of 2922 and 2924A.
 
11. The parties agreed that the ownership of the
property and the plan to enact the Ellis Act would not be contingent upon the
existence of their romantic relationship. Approximately four months after the
Property was purchased, the parties terminated their romantic relationship.
Although SOUTHERLAND agreed to continue with the original plan to retain
ownership of the property with DONOHUE, SOUTHERLAND insisted that he would only
continue to proceed with the Ellis Act process if DONOHUE agreed to allow SOUTHERLAND
to occupy the two-bedroom so that his daughter could live with him when she
returned from college. DONOHUE reluctantly agreed, as both parties purchased
the property due to the unique investment opportunity to be able to Ellis the
property and eventually sell a completely empty multi-unit property, which is a
rare occurrence in Santa Monica, several years later. As a result of
SOUTHERLAND’s demand, DONOHUE was forced to have her youngest daughter move out
due to lack of a space for her. DONOHUE was left with living in 2924A, which is
the smaller 450 sq foot one bedroom unit. The understanding was that this would
be temporary, since the parties would evict the tenants in 2924B and renovate
the unit so that DONOHUE could move into the larger one bedroom unit, 2924B,
with her special needs middle daughter. DONOHUE’s eldest daughter was to occupy
2924A once she returned from her summer internship in mid-August 2023.
 
12. The plan to file an Ellis Action was agreed
by the parties prior to the purchase of the property. The parties were
subsequently advised by their attorney to seek an exemption from rent control
and raise the tenant’s rent to full market value, which they did. The process
took a year. The City of Santa Monica rent control board modified the way they
had been interpreting the law for decades, and in response, threatened to sue
the parties for harassing their tenants. The parties then agreed to pursue an
Ellis action again.
 
13. Due to the delays regarding the eviction of
the tenants and the Ellis Act, the tenants did not vacate as planned. The unit
was not available prior to the date that DONOHUE’s daughter returned home. As
such, DONOHUE had nowhere to live from August 15, 2023 to July 2024, as the
tenants had not vacated the unit. This has caused a significant strain on
DONOHUE’s life as her plans for housing were swayed by SOUTHERLAND’s refusal to
proceed with the Ellis Act as planned.
 
14. Outside of the renovations, there were
several unexpected legal costs and repairs on the Property. Obtaining the HELOC
became challenging, since the parties were required to increase income to
qualify jointly for the loan due to SOUTHERLAND's high debt-to-income ratio and
low income.
 
15. SOUTHERLAND, who makes approximately $60,000
a year working as a parttime architect and also receives funds from his
family’s trust, was unable to maintain his half of maintenance and repairs for
new damages incurred on the Property. From the beginning, it was agreed that
the parties would obtain a HELOC. Due to SOUTHERLAND’s debt to income, it was
difficult to obtain a HELOC. Since the parties needed funds to pay for the
renovations, DONOHUE drained all of her investments, savings, borrowed money from
third parties, took early disbursements from her 401(k), which triggered early
penalties, and retire ten years early, incurring a 40% cut in her pension, in
order to follow through with the renovation expenses. Once the HELOC was
obtained, some of the funds from that loan were to be used to repay DONOHUE for
the debt she had to incur, all of which was planned and SOUTHERLAND was aware
of, to complete the renovations.
 
16. In August 2022, a loan was provided by SYLVIA
SOUTHERLAND, Trustee of the SOUTHERLAND FAMILY TRUST AGREEMENT to KEVIN LEE
SOUTHERLAND in the amount of $62,000. The payments on this loan were paid by
DONOHUE.
 
17. The appointment with the City of Santa Monica
was scheduled to occur on or about January 3rd, 2024. After almost a year and a
half of back-and-forth with the City of Santa Monica, the Parties had an
appointment with the City to enact the Ellis Act. However, several days before
the appointment, SOUTHERLAND demanded that DONOHUE sign a partnership agreement
and agree to unfavorable terms that were never previously agreed upon or
discussed. The terms included that either DONOHUE or SOUTHERLAND could choose
to sell the property at any time for any reason (negating the Ellis completion
plan that had been agreed to), DONOHUE paying the share of the mortgage during
renovation of the tenants’ unit (the oral agreement had been that the cost
would continue to be shared equally, which was $1,000/month, to make up for the
tenants’ rent since they are currently paying 25% of market rent), and that if
either party couldn’t afford repairs, the other would pay for them (DONOHUE).
SOUTHERLAND also indicated backing out of his agreement to complete the
architectural drawings he had begun for renovating the tenants’ unit and
suggested DONOHUE hire an architect, adding additional costs expected to be
paid by DONOHUE as well as additional time DONOHUE couldn’t occupy the unit, as
well as additional cost for DONOHUE to pay the share of the mortgage for that
unit. Since DONOHUE did not agree to this agreement, SOUTHERLAND decided that
he no longer wanted to continue with the Ellis Act or the planned HELOC. This
caused a significant inconvenience to DONOHUE since the plan was for her to
reside in the tenant-occupied unit. This decision caused DONOHUE to be without
a firm plan for housing indefinitely and separated her family.
 
(FACC ¶¶ 7-17.)  Regarding Negligent Misrepresentation
specifically, Defendant alleges:
 
32. SOUTHERLAND represented that the following
were true: SOUTHERLAND agreed to purchase the property with DONOHUE with the
intent that the parties would enact the Ellis Act, which significantly
increases property value in Santa Monica rent-controlled properties, as it is
rare for a multi-family rent-controlled unit to be made available for sale
completely vacant. The enacting of the Ellis Act was a deciding factor in
DONOHUE’s willingness to purchase the property; agreed to pay half of the
maintenance expenses and repairs related to the property; agreed that DONOHUE
and her daughter could occupy the larger one-bedroom while her second daughter
occupied the smaller one-bedroom; agreed that the parties would obtain a HELOC
to cover the renovations. Once this was proving difficult, it was agreed that
the HELOC could be used to recoup the penalties and interest paid by DONOHUE
for having to drain her savings, take loans, and take funds out early from her
retirement account. 
 
33. SOUTHERLAND represented that these facts were
true. There was no condition that these items would only be agreed-upon if the
parties remained in a relationship.
 
34. Although SOUTHERLAND may have honestly
believed that the representations were true, SOUTHERLAND had no reasonable
grounds for believing the representation was true when he made them. The
parties waited almost two years from putting the offer on the property, for the
Ellis appointment with the City of Santa Monica. Although the parties’ romantic
relationship ended over one year prior to the appointment date, SOUTHERLAND
continued his representations that he would proceed with the Ellis Act and the
HELOC. Several days prior to the appointment, SOUTHERLAND informed DONOHUE that
he would not proceed with the appointment for the Ellis Act unless she signed a
“partnership agreement” which contained terms the parties never agreed upon.
This “partnership agreement” was never discussed as a condition prior. The
“partnership agreement” included terms that clearly contradicted the original
intentions of the parties, and also required DONOHUE to pay for additional
expenses that were not originally agreed-upon and that SOUTHERLAND claimed
DONOHUE would be required to pay since he could no longer afford his end of the
agreement. Since DONOHUE refused to sign that agreement, SOUTHERLAND refused to
attend the meeting and also informed DONOHUE that he would not proceed with the
HELOC process. If SOUTHERLAND believed that the ownership of the house,
Ellis-ing the property, and obtaining the HELOC was contingent on the parties
remaining in a romantic relationship, he had no grounds to maintain the
representations that the parties would continue the HELOC process and the Ellis
process were true after October 2022, which is when the romantic relationship
terminated. However, based on SOUTHERLAND’s actions with DONOHUE, it is clear
that he maintained these representations until approximately December 26, 2023,
when SOUTHERLAND provided the “partnership agreement” and informed DONOHUE that
he refused to participate in the agreements between the parties if she refused
to sign the agreement.
 
35. SOUTHERLAND maintained the representations on
the above-mentioned agreements over a year after the parties terminated their
relationship. In December 2023, SOUTHERLAND refused to abide by the
representations and agreements with DONOHUE. 
 
36. SOUTHERLAND intended that DONOHUE rely on
these representations. 
 
37. DONOHUE relied on these representations to
her detriment. 
 
38. DONOHUE was harmed because of these
representations. 
 
39. DONOHUE’s reliance on SOUTHERLAND’s
representations were a substantial factor in her harm. 
 
(FACC
at ¶¶ 32-39.)    For
Intentional Misrepresentation, Defendant alleges:
 
42. DONOHUE claims that SOUTHERLAND made a false
representation that harmed her. 
 
43. SOUTHERLAND represented that the following
were true: SOUTHERLAND agreed to purchase the property with DONOHUE with the
intent that the parties would enact the Ellis Act, which significantly
increases property value in Santa Monica rent-controlled properties, as it is
rare for a multi-family rent-controlled unit to be made available for sale
completely vacant, and would allow an owner to rent all units at the current
market rates. The enacting of the Ellis Act was a deciding factor in DONOHUE’s
willingness to purchase the property; agreed to pay half of the maintenance
expenses and repairs related to the property; agreed that DONOHUE and her
daughter could occupy the larger one-bedroom while her second daughter occupied
the smaller one-bedroom; agreed that the parties would obtain a HELOC to pay
for the renovations. Once this was proving difficult, it was agreed that the
HELOC could be used to recoup the penalties for DONOHUE having to drain her
savings, take loans, and take funds out early from her retirement account. 
 
44. SOUTHERLAND’s representations were false. 
 
45. The parties waited almost two years for the
Ellis appointment with the City of Santa Monica. Although the parties’ romantic
relationship ended over one year prior to the appointment date, SOUTHERLAND
continued his representations that he would proceed with the Ellis Act and the
HELOC. Several days prior to the appointment, SOUTHERLAND informed DONOHUE that
he would not proceed with the appointment for the Ellis Act unless she signed a
“partnership agreement” which contained terms the parties never agreed upon.
This “partnership agreement” was never discussed as a condition prior. Since
DONOHUE refused to sign that agreement, SOUTHERLAND refused to attend the
meeting and also informed DONOHUE that he would not proceed with the HELOC
process. If SOUTHERLAND believed that the ownership of the house, Ellis-ing the
property, and obtaining the HELOC was contingent on the parties remaining in a
romantic relationship, he had no grounds to maintain the representations that
the parties would continue the HELOC process and the Ellis process were true
after August 2022, which is when the romantic relationship terminated. However,
based on SOUTHERLAND’s actions with DONOHUE, it is clear that he maintained
these representations until approximately December 26, 2023, when SOUTHERLAND
provided the “partnership agreement” and informed DONOHUE that he refused to
participate in the agreements between the parties if she refused to sign the
agreement. 
 
46. SOUTHERLAND knew that the representation was
false when he made it, and/or that he made the representation recklessly and
without regard for its truth. SOUTHERLAND now contends the representations and
agreements only applied so long as the parties were in a romantic relationship.
However, this caveat was not expressed to DONOHUE between the time period the
parties ended their relationship, which was in August 2022, and December 2023.
As such, these promises were false when they were made or made recklessly and
without regard for the truth, as DONOHUE was not aware of these “conditions”,
especially since the parties continued with Ellis-ing the property and the
HELOC process until December 2023. 
 
47. SOUTHERLAND intended that DONOHUE rely on the
representations. 
 
48. DONOHUE reasonably relied on SOUTHERLAND’s
representations. 
 
49. DONOHUE was harmed. 
 
50. DONOHUE’s reliance on SOUTHERLAND’s
representations was a substantial factor in causing her harm.
 
(Cross-Complaint
at ¶¶ 42-50.)
 
            Plaintiff argues that Defendant
fails to state a cause of action for negligent misrepresentation with requisite
particularity because the allegations merely constitute representations about
future events that are not actionable.  
 
The Court agrees that speculative opinions about future events are
generally not actionable.  (See, e.g., Cohen
v. S & S Construction Co. (151 Cal.App.3d 941, 946.)  Here, Defendant alleges Plaintiff promised to
(1) purchase the property jointly with Defendant; (2) invoke the Ellis Act; (3)
pay half the maintenance and repair expenses; (4) allow Defendant and her
daughter to occupy the property; and (4) obtain a HELOC to pay for the
renovations and repay Defendant for the debt she incurred for renovations.
(Cross-Complaint ¶¶ 32, 43.)  
 
Here, although Defendant adequately alleges that Plaintiff did not
keep all his promises, there are no specific facts suggesting or creating an
inference that Plaintiff either did not intend to keep his promises, or had no
reasonable basis for his promises when they were made, as is required to
allege a cause of action for misrepresentation. 

 
Rather, the allegations demonstrate that a calamity of unexpected
events occurred subsequent to the original agreement – (1) the parties’
romantic relationship dissolved; (2) their lawyers advised them to first apply
for an exemption and raise the tenant’s rent before pursuing the Ellis Act,
which process delayed things a year; (3) there were unexpected legal and
renovation related expenses; (4) there were unexpected roadblocks obtaining a
HELOC loan, as a result of Plaintiff’s high debt-to-income ratio; and (5) going
back and forth with the City of Santa Monica regarding the Ellis Act
unexpectedly took a year and a half.  Subsequent
to all these events, Plaintiff allegedly refused to go any forward with
invoking the Ellis Act unless and until Defendant signed a written partnership
agreement.  Further, the allegations
demonstrate that the parties modified their agreement, by allowing Plaintiff to
move into the two-bedroom unit.
 
            Thus, all of the alleged false
promises appear to be speculative opinions about future events that did not go
according to the parties’ plans, due to events largely outside their control.  The parties assumed their romantic
relationship would continue; that the renovation, repair, and maintenance costs
would be a certain amount; that they would be able to invoke the Ellis Act and
evict the existing tenants on a certain timeframe (which did not include first
applying for an exemption and raising the tenant’s rent, as they subsequently
obtained legal advice to do); that they would be able to obtain a HELOC
relatively easily and quickly; and that the living arrangements at the property
would be as originally agreed.  But none
of that went according to plan.  
 
            As such, the promises appear to be
well-intentioned speculative assumptions about how the process would work, that
did not pan out.  Yet such speculative
opinions about future events are not actionable.  The FACC therefore does not allege an
actionable misrepresentation, nor does it demonstrate that the promises were knowingly
false when made.
 
            Further, the third and fourth causes
of action do not satisfy the heightened pleading requirement of
specificity.  Namely, Defendant does not
allege specifically when or how the alleged promises were made.  
 
            Therefore, the Court sustains
Plaintiff’s demurrer to the third and fourth causes of action.         
 
                                                      
ii.         
Sixth Cause
of Action – Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress
 
To prevail on the Intentional Infliction of
Emotional Distress (“IIED”) cause of action, a plaintiff must prove: “(1)
extreme and outrageous conduct by the defendant with the intention of causing,
or reckless disregard of the probability of causing, emotional distress; (2)
the plaintiff’s suffering severe or extreme emotional distress; and (3) actual
and proximate causation of the emotional distress by the defendant’s outrageous
conduct.” (Hughes v. Pair (2009) 46 Cal.4th 1035, 1050-1051.) A
defendant’s conduct is outrageous when “it is so extreme as to exceed all
bounds of that usually tolerated in a civilized community.” (Ibid.
[cleaned up].)  Further, the
defendant’s conduct must be “intended to inflict injury or engaged in with the
realization that injury will result.” (Id. at p. 1051 [cleaned up].)

 
The FACC
alleges:
 
59. SOUTHERLAND was negligent when he made the
above-mentioned agreements with DONOHUE. SOUTHERLAND agreed to purchase the
property with DONOHUE with the intent that the parties would enact the Ellis
Act, which significantly increases property value in Santa Monica
rent-controlled properties, as it is rare for a multi-family rent-controlled
unit to be made available for sale completely vacant, and would allow a new
owner to rent all of the units at the current market rates vs. purchasing a
property with tenants who are paying rent amounts that are significantly under
market rates based upon Santa Monica rent control. The enacting of the Ellis
Act was a deciding factor in DONOHUE’s willingness to purchase the property;
agreed to pay half of the maintenance expenses and repairs related to the
property; agreed that DONOHUE and her daughter could occupy the larger
one-bedroom while her second daughter occupied the smaller one-bedroom; agreed
that the parties would obtain a HELOC for the renovations. It was agreed that
the HELOC could be used to recoup the penalties for DONOHUE having to drain her
savings, acquire substantial credit card debt, take loans, and take funds out
early from her retirement account. Since the tenants in the occupied unit are
currently paying only 25% of current market rate, both parties are responsible
for covering $1000/month of the share of the mortgage to recoup the difference
between the market rent and the amount the tenants are currently paying. 
 
60. SOUTHERLAND was negligent when he made these
agreements, since he had no intent to perform on them. Several months after the
parties terminated their romantic relationship and with the knowledge that
DONOHUE has two special needs children that have difficulty living  alone, SOUTHERLAND informed DONOHUE that he
would not proceed with Ellis-ing the property unless she agreed to give the
2-bedroom to SOUTHERLAND. SOUTHERLAND’s demand was made with the knowledge that
DONOHUE had two daughters living with her and the third planning to move in.
With SOUTHERLAND’s occupation of the 2-bedroom, the remaining units were 2924B
and 2924A, which the parties agreed DONOHUE’s eldest daughter could move into
after she returned from school. DONOHUE reluctantly agreed to move into 2924A,
with the understanding that the parties would Ellis the property and the
tenants would be moved out of 2924B by the first week of May 2024. 2924B was
estimated to take two months to renovate. During the renovation, DONOHUE would
live in 2924A until forced to vacate in August so her eldest daughter could
occupy the unit and subsequently had no place to live, and move into the
tenant-occupied unit after renovations, which would be prior to the date
DONOHUE’s middle daughter would join her in 2924B before school began. Since
SOUTHERLAND backed out of the agreement to Ellis the property, the tenants were
not evicted from 2924B prior to May 2024. As a result, DONOHUE was left
homeless for eleven months. Her special needs middle daughter, who was to live
with DONOHUE, was left couch surfing for over a six-month period. Her youngest
special needs daughter lived with two other people in a studio apartment, which
was not allowed by the owner, which caused great distress, and ultimately moved
out-of-state to afford to live. She dropped to part time remote attendance at
Santa Monica College due to her unsustainable living conditions and having to
work to support herself and plans to return to live with DONOHUE. Originally,
DONOHUE’s middle daughter planned to start college at Santa Monica College in
August 2023 but was unable to do so as a result of SOUTHERLAND’s demand to
occupy the 2-bedroom. SOUTHERLAND’s refusal to Ellis the property led to the
inability to evict the tenants. 2924A is a 450 sq. foot unit. Since DONOHUE and
her eldest daughter both worked remotely, it was not feasible for both parties
to occupy the small unit. DONOHUE's eldest daughter lives on student loans,
which are insufficient to cover the cost of living. DONOHUE supplements part of
her living expenses. DONOHUE’s eldest daughter could not afford other housing
and would not be able to locate other housing during that time since she was
working at a summer internship in Pennsylvania and was returning to California
a few days before the start of her second year of law school. Based on such,
DONOHUE was forced to move out of that unit and was without a place to live, as
she could not afford to rent another unit elsewhere while still maintaining her
other obligations between the PARTIES. 
 
61. As a result of SOUTHERLAND’s negligence,
DONOHUE suffered emotional distress as a result due to the loss of housing,
which was directly due to SOUTHERLAND’s behaviors. SOUTHERLAND was aware that
it would be difficult for DONOHUE to pay for the mortgage of the SUBJECT
PROPERTY, the repairs and expenses that SOUTHERLAND later expressed he could
not afford to pay his share of, and a second residence, since she planned to
live in the SUBJECT PROPERTY. DONOHUE was also unable to pay housing costs for
a home to live in as she was left paying the mortgage on the SUBJECT PROPERTY
as well as high payments on the debt she incurred that was planned to have been
paid through the HELOC. 
 
62. As a result, DONOHUE is entitled to actual
damages in an amount to be determined at trial.
 
(Cross-Complaint
¶¶ 59-62.)  
 
Although Defendant may have been inconvenienced by her own agreement
to allow Plaintiff to move into the 2-bedroom unit and the delays in invoking
the Ellis Act, as well as Plaintiff’s subsequent change of heart to continue
proceeding without a written partnership agreement in place, Defendant does not
allege any “extreme and outrageous conduct” or conduct done “with the intention
of causing or reckless disregard of the probability of causing emotional
distress.”  
 
Rather, as discussed above, at best the allegations demonstrate a
romantic relationship and business deal both went sideways due to events
largely outside the parties’ control, which caused Defendant to have to make
alternative living arrangements and expend money.  
 
Therefore, the Court sustains Plaintiff’s demurrer to the sixth cause
of action.
 
B.   
WHETHER CONTRACT IS WRITTEN, ORAL, or IMPLIED BY
CONDUCT
 
                                                        
i.         
Fifth Cause
of Action – Breach of Contract
 
“To prevail on a cause of
action for breach of contract, the plaintiff must prove (1) the contract, (2)
the plaintiff's performance of the contract or excuse for nonperformance, (3)
the defendant's breach, and (4) the resulting damage to the plaintiff.”  (Richman v. Hartley (2014) 224
Cal.App.4th 1182, 1186.)   Here, Defendant alleges in the FACC:
 
53. In 2022, when the parties decided to purchase
the Subject Property, they made the following agreement: SOUTHERLAND would pay
the down payment on the property while DONOHUE paid for renovations.
SOUTHERLAND agreed to enact the Ellis Act (which was a deciding factor in
DONOHUE’s willingness to purchase the property); agreed to pay half of the
maintenance expenses and repairs related to the property; agreed that DONOHUE
and her daughter could occupy the two-bedroom while her second daughter
occupied the smaller one-bedroom; agreed that the parties would obtain a HELOC
to cover the renovations, repairs, tenant relocation fees and attorney’s fees,
and later for DONOHUE to recoup her penalties and interest for having to pay
the cost of renovations, 50% of maintenance expenses and repairs, and the share
of expenses and renovations that SOUTHERLAND was unable to pay. 
 
54. SOUTHERLAND breached the agreement on
numerous occasions: 
 
i. In August 2022, SOUTHERLAND breached the
agreement when he informed DONOHUE that he would no longer proceed with Ellis
unless he was able to occupy the two-bedroom, which modified the original
agreement between the parties. 
 
ii. Failing to pay his 50% of maintenance
expenses and repairs. 
 
iii. Failing to comply with the process to obtain
a HELOC, which would allow DONOHUE to pay the planned debt she incurred for
renovations costs as well as recover the additional expenses and repairs she
had to pay for since SOUTHERLAND did not have the funds. SOUTHERLAND originally
agreed to complete the architectural drawings for the renovation of the
tenants’ unit as part of his contribution to the agreement. However,
SOUTHERLAND later changed his mind and refused to do such, which caused DONOHUE
to incur the costs of having a third party complete the drawings. 
 
iv. Insisting DONOHUE pay the share of the
mortgage for the tenants’ unit during the renovation of the unit. Since the
tenants are currently paying 25% market value of the unit they occupy, DONOHUE
and SOUTHERLAND agreed to contribute $1000 each and every month to cover the
mortgage payment that would have been covered by a tenant paying market rate
rent. DONOHUE would have been paying SOUTHERLAND’S share of this cost had
SOUTHERLAND not breached the contract and SOUTHERLAND’s monthly costs would
have decreased. Further, DONOHUE would not have had to incur the additional
cost of housing for her family to enable he daughter to attend college as she
had planned to prior to Southerland’s CONTRACT breach.
 
55. SOUTHERLAND’s breaches caused significant
financial harm to DONOHUE, as she had to pay for the expenses SOUTHERLAND was
obligated to pay, which caused DONOHUE to take out loans, incur interest, and
take a 40% cut in her pension due to early retirement. DONOHUE was also forced
to carry over $30,000 in high interest credit card debt and deplete all of her
investments as a result of SOUTHERLAND’s acts. The breaches also caused DONOHUE
to not have a place to live, since SOUTHERLAND now refuses to enact the Ellis
Act.
 
56. DONOHUE has maintained all of her obligations
under the agreement. 
 
57. As a result of the breach, DONOHUE is
entitled to actual damages in an amount to be determined at trial.
 
(FACC ¶¶ 53-57.)
 
            Plaintiff
demurs on the grounds that it cannot be ascertained from the pleading whether
the alleged contract is written, oral, or implied by conduct.  The Court agrees.  The FACC does not specify whether the
purported agreement is written, oral, or implied by conduct.
 
In connection with the prior demurrer, Defendant represented she
could add facts that the alleged agreement was initially an oral agreement,
that was also partially memorialized in some writings, yet Defendant did not
add any such facts to the FACC.  The only
appearance of the word “oral” in the FACC at all is in paragraph 17, which
primarily discusses Plaintiff’s refusal to go forward with invoking the Ellis
Act in January 2024 unless Defendant agrees to the terms of the written
partnership agreement, and merely states in a parenthetical “(the oral
agreement had been that the cost would continue to be shared equally, which was
$1,000/month, to make up for the tenants’ rent since they are currently paying
25% of market rent)[.]”  This is
insufficient.
 
            Therefore,
the Court sustains Plaintiff’s demurrer to the fifth cause of action for
failure to adequately plead whether the purported agreement was written, oral,
or implied by conduct.
 
2.     MOTION
TO STRIKE
 
Any party, within the time allowed to respond to a pleading, may serve
and file a motion to strike the whole pleading or any part thereof.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 435, subd. (b)(1); Cal.
Rules of Court, rule 3.1322, subd. (b).) 
On a motion to strike, the court may: (1) strike out any irrelevant,
false, or improper matter inserted in any pleading; or (2) strike out all or
any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of
California, a court rule, or an order of the court.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 436, subd. (a)-(b); Stafford v. Shultz (1954) 42 Cal.2d 767,
782.)  Here, Chan moves to strike from the complaint,
references to and claims for punitive damages. 
  
 
In ruling on a motion to strike punitive damages, “judges read allegations
of a pleading subject to a motion to strike as a whole, all parts in their
context, and assume their truth.”  (Clauson v. Superior Court (1998) 67
Cal.App.4th 1253, 1255.)  To state a
prima facie claim for punitive damages, a plaintiff must allege the elements
set forth in the punitive damages statute, Civil Code section 3294.  (College
Hosp., Inc. v. Superior Court (1994) 8 Cal.4th 704, 721.)  Per Civil Code section 3294, a plaintiff must
allege that the defendant has been guilty of oppression, fraud, or malice.  (Civ. Code, § 3294, subd. (a).)   As set forth in the Civil Code, 
 
(1) “Malice” means conduct which is intended
by the defendant to cause injury to the plaintiff or despicable conduct which
is carried on by the defendant with a willful and conscious disregard
of the rights or safety of others.  (2)
“Oppression” means despicable conduct that subjects a person to cruel and
unjust hardship in conscious disregard of that person's rights.  (3) “Fraud” means an intentional
misrepresentation, deceit, or concealment of a material fact known to the
defendant with the intention on the part of the defendant of thereby depriving
a person of property or legal rights or otherwise causing injury.
 
(Civ.
Code, § 3294, subd. (c)(1)-(3), emphasis added.)  
 
Further, a plaintiff must assert facts with specificity to support a
conclusion that a defendant acted with oppression, fraud or malice.  To wit, there is a heightened pleading
requirement regarding a claim for punitive damages.  (See Smith v. Superior Court (1992) 10
Cal.App.4th 1033, 1041-1042.)  “When
nondeliberate injury is charged, allegations that the defendant’s conduct was
wrongful, willful, wanton, reckless or unlawful do not support a claim for
exemplary damages; such allegations do not charge malice.  When a defendant must produce evidence in
defense of an exemplary damage claim, fairness demands that he receive adequate
notice of the kind of conduct charged against him.” (G. D. Searle & Co.
v. Superior Court (1975) 49 Cal.App.3d 22, 29 [cleaned up].)  In Anschutz Entertainment Group, Inc. v.
Snepp, the Court of Appeal noted that the plaintiffs’ assertions related to
their claim for punitive damages were “insufficient to meet the specific
pleading requirement.”  (Anschutz
Entertainment Group, Inc. v. Snepp (2009) 171 Cal.App.4th 598, 643
[plaintiffs alleged “the conduct of Defendants was intentional, and done
willfully, maliciously, with ill will towards Plaintiffs, and with conscious
disregard for Plaintiff's rights. Plaintiff's injuries were exacerbated by the
malicious conduct of Defendants. Defendants' conduct justifies an award of
exemplary and punitive damages”]; see also Grieves
v. Superior Court (1984) 157 Cal.App.3d 159, 166 [“The mere allegation an
intentional tort was committed is not sufficient to warrant an award of
punitive damages.  Not only must there be
circumstances of oppression, fraud, or malice, but facts must be alleged in the
pleading to support such a claim”].)  
 
Here, as discussed above, Defendant has not alleged facts with
requisite specificity to state the fraud-based causes of action for negligent
or intentional misrepresentation against Plaintiff.  As such, the Court finds that the allegations
do not adequately support a claim for punitive damages against Plaintiff.    
 
3.    
LEAVE TO AMEND
 
A plaintiff has the burden of showing in what
manner the complaint could be amended and how the amendment would change the
legal effect of the complaint, i.e., state a cause of action. (See The
Inland Oversight Committee v. City of San Bernardino (2018) 27 Cal.App.5th
771, 779; PGA West Residential Assn., Inc. v. Hulven Int'l, Inc. (2017)
14 Cal.App.5th 156, 189.) A plaintiff must not only state the legal basis for
the amendment, but also the factual allegations sufficient to state a cause of
action or claim. (See PGA West Residential Assn., Inc. v. Hulven Int'l, Inc.,
supra, 14 Cal.App.5th at p. 189.) Moreover, a plaintiff does not meet his
or her burden by merely stating in the opposition to a demurrer or motion to
strike that “if the Court finds the operative complaint deficient, plaintiff
respectfully requests leave to amend.” (See Major Clients Agency v Diemer
(1998) 67 Cal.App.4th 1116, 1133; Graham v. Bank of America (2014) 226
Cal.App.4th 594, 618 [asserting an abstract right to amend does not satisfy the
burden].)
 
Defendant indicates she can add facts (1) “that the oral agreement
was made in or about February 2022 in person”; and (2) regarding Intentional
Infliction of Emotional Distress, Defendant can change “negligent” to “reckless
disregard.”
 
As discussed above, Defendant previously represented to the Court
she could add facts that the alleged agreement was initially an oral agreement,
which was partially memorialized in some writings.  However, Defendant did not add any such facts
to the FACC.  
 
Now, Defendant represents that she can amend the FACC to allege
that the agreement was oral, and was made in person in February 2022, the Court
grants Defendant leave to amend the fifth cause of action for breach of
contract.
 
However, additional facts about the form and timing of the
agreement will not cure the deficiencies identified above regarding Plaintiff’s
knowledge of falsity at the time the alleged misrepresentations were made.  Therefore, the court denies Defendant leave
to amend the third and fourth causes of action.
 
Regarding the sixth cause of action for intentional infliction of
emotional distress, merely changing the word “negligent” to “reckless
disregard” will not cure the fact that Defendant has not alleged any extreme or
outrageous conduct that exceeds all bounds of that usually tolerated in
a civilized community.  
 
Therefore, the Court denies Defendant leave to amend the third, fourth
and sixth causes of action and claim for punitive damages.
 
CONCLUSION AND ORDER
 
For the reasons stated, the Court sustains Plaintiff’s demurrer to the
fifth cause of action with leave to amend, and sustains without leave to amend
Plaintiff’s demurrer to the third, fourth and sixth causes of action.
 
Further, the Court grants Plaintiff’s motion to strike and strikes
from the FACC the requested references to and claim for punitive damages
without leave to amend.
 
Defendant may file and serve a second amended cross-complaint in
conformance with this ruling on or before November 21, 2024.
 
Plaintiff shall provide notice of the Court’s ruling and file the
notice with a proof of service forthwith. 

 
 
DATED:  October 31, 2024                                                   ___________________________
                                                                                          Michael
E. Whitaker
                                                                                          Judge
of the Superior Court