 Case Number:  23STCV30533    Hearing Date:   October 31, 2024    Dept:  207 TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPARTMENT


207




HEARING DATE


September 26, 2024 – Continued to October 31, 2024




CASE NUMBER


23STCV30533




MOTIONS


Applications to Be Admitted Pro Hac Vice




MOVING PARTIES


Jessica Fuller and Stephen Steele, counsel for Defendants
  Unto Infinity LLC; Siri Singh Sahib of Sikh Dharma; Siri Singh Sahib
  Corporation; Sikh Dharma International; 3Ho Foundation International; and
  Kundalini Research Institute




OPPOSING PARTY


(none)



 
 
MOTION
 
Jessica Fuller (“Fuller”) and Stephen Steele (“Steele”) (together,
“Counsel”) each move for a court order allowing them to appear as counsel pro
hac vice for Defendants Unto Infinity LLC; Siri Singh Sahib of Sikh Dharma;
Siri Singh Sahib Corporation; Sikh Dharma International; 3Ho Foundation
International; and Kundalini Research Institute (“Defendants”) in this action.  The applications are unopposed.
 
The Court continued the hearing to enable each Counsel to effectuate proper service on the State Bar of
California by mail at its San Francisco office and file proofs of service of
the same.
 
Subsequently, Defendants filed
a Notice of Continuance, and Amended Notices of Motions to be admitted Pro Hac
Vice, with proofs of service indicating electronic service to all parties in
the action, and service by mail on the State Bar at its San Francisco office.
 
ANALYSIS
 
            California Rules of Court rule 9.40
provides that an attorney in good standing in another jurisdiction may apply to
appear as counsel pro hac vice in the State of California by filing a verified
application together with proof of service by mail of a copy of the application
and notice of hearing on all parties who have appeared in the case and on the
State Bar of California at its San Francisco office, with payment of a $50.00
fee, so long as that attorney is not a resident of the State of California, and
is not regularly engaged in substantial business, professional, or other
activities in the State of California. (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 9.40.)
 
The application must state: (1) the applicant’s residence and office
addresses; (2) the courts to which the applicant has been admitted to practice
and the dates of admission; (3) that the applicant is a member of good standing
in those courts; (4) that the applicant is not currently suspended or disbarred
in any court; (5) the title of each court and cause in which the applicant has
filed an application to appear as counsel pro hac vice in this state in the
preceding two years, the date of each application, and whether or not it was
granted; and (6) the name, address, and telephone number of the active member
of the State Bar of California who is attorney of record in the local action.
(Cal. Rules of Court, rule 9.40(d).)
 
            The Court finds that the verified
applications include all of the above information.  Further, the applications indicate the application
fees were paid to the State Bar through the Admissions Application Portal.  (Fuller Decl. ¶ 10; Steele Decl. ¶ 10; Acosta
Decl. ¶ 4.)  
 
            Further, Fuller and Steele have
demonstrated that notice of the continued hearings and amended applications was
served by mail on the State Bar at its San Francisco office, in compliance with
California Rules of Court, rule 9.40(c) which provides:
 
Rule 9.40(c)(1)
provides:  “A person desiring to appear
as counsel pro hac vice in a superior court must file with the court a verified
application together with proof of service by mail in accordance
with Code of Civil Procedure section 1013a of a copy of the application and of
the notice of hearing of the application on all parties who have appeared in
the cause and on the State Bar of California at its San Francisco office. The
notice of hearing must be given at the time prescribed in Code of Civil Procedure
section 1005 unless the court has prescribed a shorter period.”   
 
(Cal. Rules of Court, rule
9.40(c)(1), emphasis added.)  As such,
the Court determines that the applications are procedurally and substantively
proper.
 
CONCLUSION AND ORDER 
 
Therefore, finding Counsel have
satisfied all requirements under the California Rules of Court, the Court
grants Counsel’s applications to appear pro hac vice in this action.  
 
Counsel shall provide notice
of the Court’s ruling and file the notice with a proof of service forthwith.
 
 
DATED: October 31, 2024                                                    ___________________________
Michael E. Whitaker
                                                                                          Judge
of the Superior Court