  Case Number:  22STCV35268    Hearing Date:   July 16, 2024    Dept:  72  
SUPERIOR COURT OF CALIFORNIA
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES
 
DEPARTMENT 72
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



IBIERE N. SECK, et al., 
 
                                  PlaintiffS,
  
         v.
 
 
BRIAN T. DUNN, A PROFESSIONAL LAW
  CORPORATION,
 
                                  Defendant.
 


 Case No: 
  22STCV35268
 
 
 
 
 
 Hearing Date:  July 16, 2024
 Calendar Number:  8



 
 
 
Plaintiffs and Cross-Defendants Ibiere N. Seck (“Seck”) and
Seck Law, P.C. (“Seck Law”) (collectively, “Plaintiffs”) demur to the First
Amended Cross-Complaint (“FACC”) filed by Cross-Complainants Dunn Law P.C.,
d/b/a the Cochran Firm (the “Cochran Firm”) and Brian T. Dunn (collectively,
“Cross-Complainants”).
 
The Court SUSTAINS the demurrer to the fifth claim WITHOUT
LEAVE TO AMEND.
 
The Court SUSTAINS the demurrer to the remaining claims WITH
LEAVE TO AMEND.  Cross-Complainants may
amend within 20 days.
 
Background
 
This case relates to a dispute over a fee sharing agreement
between attorneys.
 
Seck is an individual lawyer previously employed by the
Cochran Firm.  Her law firm, Seck Law,
and her previous employer, the Cochran Firm, entered into an agreement on
October 29, 2019 with respect to the end of Seck’s employment with the Cochran
Firm and how compensation would be handled for cases that Seck worked on prior
to her departure  (the “Agreement”). 
 
Plaintiffs’ complaint alleges the following.  One of the matters covered under the
Agreement was John Doe v. The Rock Corona, et al. (Case No. RIC 1901347)
(the “Doe Matter”). Under the Agreement, the Cochran Firm is entitled to a
specified percentage of the net attorney’s fees for the Doe Matter. On May 20,
2021, the Doe Matter settled. The net attorney’s fees from the settlement were
to be divided evenly between Plaintiffs and another law firm called Taylor
& King, which was Plaintiffs’ co-counsel. The attorney’s fees necessary to
satisfy Plaintiffs’ obligation to the Cochran Firm were supposed to come out of
Plaintiffs’ portion of the fees. The Cochran Firm had previously placed a lien
on the Doe Matter, and Plaintiffs therefore asked Defendant to approve a
distribution of the attorney’s fees so that Taylor & King could distribute
the fees to Plaintiffs and the Cochran Firm. The Cochran Firm refused to
approve the distribution.
 
Cross-Complainants allege the following in the FACC. Seck
falsely told Dunn, the Cochran Firm’s managing partner, that she had been close
personal friend of the family members of the plaintiff in the Doe Matter since
before the events giving rise to the Doe Matter occurred. Seck told Dunn that
the Doe plaintiff had chosen to follow her to her new law firm, Seck Law. In
truth, Seck had not known the Doe plaintiff or his family until the Doe
plaintiff reached out to the Cochran Firm through their telephone hotline.  The Cochran Firm relied on Seck’s false representation
and therefore received a smaller share of the attorney’s fees from the Doe
Matter than it would otherwise have received. Also, Seck associated in Taylor
& King on the Doe Matter during her employment at the Cochran Firm in
violation of the Cochran Firm’s policies.
 
For the purposes of this demurrer, the Court accepts the
allegations in the Cross-Complaint as true.
 
Plaintiffs filed this action on November 3, 2022, raising
claims for (1) breach of contract; and (2) declaratory relief.
 
Cross-Complainants filed a Cross-Complaint on April 25,
2024. Cross-Complainants filed the FACC, the operative cross-complaint, on
April 29, 2024, raising claims for (1) fraud; (2) conversion; (3) intentional
interference with prospective economic advantage; (4) negligent interference
with prospective economic advantage; (5) breach of fiduciary duty; and (6)
unjust enrichment.
 
Plaintiffs demurred to the FACC on July 9, 2024.
Cross-Complainants did not file an opposition.
 
Legal Standard
 
As a general matter, in a demurrer proceeding, the defects
must be apparent on the face of the pleading or via proper judicial
notice. (Donabedian v. Mercury Ins.
Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994.) “A demurrer tests the pleading
alone, and not the evidence or facts alleged.” (E-Fab, Inc. v. Accountants,
Inc. Servs. (2007) 153 Cal.App.4th 1308, 1315.) The court assumes the truth
of the complaint’s properly pleaded or implied factual allegations. (Ibid.) The only issue a demurrer is
concerned with is whether the complaint, as it stands, states a cause of
action. (Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747.)
 
Where a demurrer is sustained, leave to amend must be
allowed where there is a reasonable possibility of successful amendment. (Goodman v. Kennedy (1976) 18 Cal.3d 335,
348.) The burden is on the plaintiff to show the court that a pleading can be
amended successfully. (Ibid.;
Lewis v. YouTube, LLC (2015) 244 Cal.App.4th 118, 226.) However, “[i]f
there is any reasonable possibility that the plaintiff can state a good cause
of action, it is error to sustain a demurrer without leave to amend.” (Youngman v. Nevada Irrigation Dist.
(1969) 70 Cal.2d 240, 245).
 
Discussion
 
Fraud – First Claim
 
“The elements of fraud are (a) a misrepresentation (false
representation, concealment, or nondisclosure); (b) scienter or knowledge of
its falsity; (c) intent to induce reliance; (d) justifiable reliance; and (e)
resulting damage.” (Hinesley v. Oakshade
Town Ctr. (2005) 135 Cal.App.4th 289, 294.) 
 
The facts constituting the alleged fraud must be alleged
factually and specifically as to every element of fraud, as the policy of
“liberal construction” of the pleadings will not ordinarily be invoked. (Lazar v. Superior Court (1996) 12
Cal.4th 631, 645.) To properly allege fraud against a corporation, the
plaintiffs must plead the names of the persons allegedly making the false
representations, their authority to speak, to whom they spoke, what they said
or wrote, and when it was said or written. (Tarmann
v. State Farm Mut. Auto. Ins. Co. (1991) 2 Cal.App.4th 153, 157.)
 
Cross-Complainants fail to meet this standard. The
Cross-Complaint does not allege where, when, or how Seck represented that she
had a previous relationship with the Doe plaintiff’s family. The allegations
presented are insufficient to put Plaintiffs on notice of the contents claim
that they need to defend.
 
Furthermore, Cross-Complainants fail to allege causation.
The FACC contains no allegation that Cross-Complainants undertook a detrimental
course of action in response to Plaintiffs’ representations that resulted in
Cross-Complainants being entitled to a smaller fee amount.
 
For both of these reasons, the FACC fails to state a claim
for fraud.
 
The Court sustains the demurrer to this claim with leave to
amend.
 
Conversion – Second Claim
 
“Conversion
is the wrongful exercise of dominion over the property of another. The elements
of a conversion claim are: (1) the plaintiff’s ownership or right to possession
of the property; (2) the defendant’s conversion by a wrongful act or
disposition of property rights; and (3) damages.” (Lee v. Hanley (2015) 61 Cal.4th 1225, 1240.) “It is not necessary
that there be a manual taking of the property; it is only necessary to show an
assumption of control or ownership over the property, or that the alleged converter
has applied the property to [their] own use.” (Oakdale Village Group v. Fong
(1996) 43 Cal.App.4th 539, 544.)

 
Cross-Complainants allege that “the attorneys’ fees in the
‘Doe Matter’ have yet to be distributed, and remain held in trust pursuant to
SECK LAW’S claimed entitlement to said fees.” (FACC ¶ 6.) Cross-Complainants
have therefore pled that Plaintiffs have not exercised control or ownership
over the fees at issue, negating the second element.
 
The Court sustains the demurrer to this claim with leave to
amend.
 
Intentional Interference with Prospective Economic Advantage – Third Claim
 
The elements of a claim for
intentional interference with prospective economic advantage include “(1) an
economic relationship between the plaintiff and some third party, with the
probability of future economic benefit to the plaintiff; (2) the defendant’s
knowledge of the relationship; (3) intentional or negligent acts on the part of
the defendant designed to disrupt the relationship; (4) actual disruption of
the relationship; and (5) economic harm to the plaintiff proximately caused by
the acts of the defendant.” (Crown
Imports, LLC v. Superior Court (2014) 223 Cal.App.4th 1395, 1404 [citations,
brackets, and quotation marks omitted].) Further, “the alleged interference
must have been wrongful by some measure beyond the fact of the interference
itself. For an act to be sufficiently independently wrongful, it must be
unlawful, that is, it is proscribed by some constitutional, statutory,
regulatory, common law, or other determinable legal standard.” (Ibid. [citation,
ellipsis, and quotation marks omitted].)

 
Cross-Complainants have not alleged causation. As discussed
under the fraud claim, there is no explanation as to how the alleged
representations that Seck was a close friend of the Doe plaintiff’s family led
to the disruption of Cross-Complainants’ opportunity to represent the Doe
plaintiff. The same is true for the allegations that Seck associated with
Taylor & King on the Doe Matter before leaving Dunn Law – Cross
Complainants do not explain how this disrupted the relationship.
 
Furthermore, Cross-Complainants do not identify a wrongful
act leading the Doe Plaintiff to follow Seck to her new firm. “[A] client has
an absolute right to substitute one attorney for another for any reason …; it
is immaterial that such a substitution will work to the purported detriment of
the original attorney.” (Kallen v. Delug (1984) 157 Cal.App.3d 940,
950.) And “[u]nder the privilege of free competition, a competitor is free to
divert business to himself as long as he uses fair and reasonable means.” (Tri-Growth
Centre City, Ltd. v. Silldorf, Burdman, Duignan & Eisenberg (1989) 216
Cal.App.3d 1139, 1153.) “[T]he competition privilege is defeated only where the
defendant engages in unlawful or illegitimate means.” (San Francisco Design Center Associates v. Portman Companies (1995)
41 Cal.App.4th 29, 42.) The mere fact that Seck did not know the Doe plaintiff
or his family prior to Dunn Law’s engagement on the Doe Matter does not give
rise to an inference that Seck obtained the Doe Plaintiff’s business unlawfully.
It is equally likely, under the facts as alleged, that the Doe Plaintiff chose
to go to Seck Law of his own accord.
 
The Court sustains the demurrer to this claim with leave to
amend.
 
Negligent Interference with Prospective Economic Advantage – Fourth Claim
 
“The elements of negligent
interference with prospective economic advantage are (1) the existence of an
economic relationship between the plaintiff and a third party containing the
probability of future economic benefit to the plaintiff; (2) the defendant’s
knowledge of the relationship; (3) the defendant’s knowledge (actual or
construed) that the relationship would be disrupted if the defendant failed to
act with reasonable care; (4) the defendant’s failure to act with reasonable
care; (5) actual disruption of the relationship; and (6) economic harm
proximately caused by the defendant’s negligence.” (Redfearn v. Trader Joe’s Co. (2018) 20 Cal.App.5th 989, 1005.)

 
As discussed under the intentional interference claim,
Cross-Complainants have failed to plead a wrongful act by Plaintiffs.
Cross-Complainants have also failed to plead causation from any wrongful act to
the Doe plaintiff’s choice of Seck or to Cross-Complainants’ receipt of a reduced
fee.
 
The Court sustains the demurrer to this claim with leave to
amend.
 
Breach of Fiduciary Duty – Fifth Claim
 
“The elements of a cause of action
for breach of fiduciary duty are the existence of a fiduciary relationship,
breach of fiduciary duty, and damages.” (Oasis
West Realty, LLC v. Goldman (2011) 51 Cal.4th 811, 820.)

 
Cross-Complainants allege that Seck owed a duty of loyalty
to Dunn Law as an employee and former employee. (FACC ¶¶ 28-29.) However, a
mere employment relationship is inadequate to produce a fiduciary duty. “[A]n
officer who participates in management of the corporation, exercising some
discretionary authority, is a fiduciary of the corporation as a matter of law.
Conversely, a ‘nominal’ officer with no management authority is not a
fiduciary.” (Gab Bus. Servs. v. Lindsey & Newsom Claim Servs. (2000)
83 Cal.App.4th 409, 420-421.) Cross-Complainants have not pled that Seck
participated in the management of Dunn Law. In fact, Cross-Complainants plead
that Seck worked in the capacity of an associate attorney, instead. (FACC ¶¶ 7,
14.) Cross-Complainants have not alleged a fiduciary duty.
 
Cross-Complainant’s allegations that Seck was an associate
attorney during her time at Dunn Law indicates that leave to amend would likely
be futile. Cross-Complainants have not opposed the motion or explained how
amendment could cure this claim’s defects.
 
The Court sustains the demurrer to this claim without leave
to amend.
 
Unjust Enrichment – Sixth Claim
 
“The elements for a claim of unjust enrichment are receipt
of a benefit and unjust retention of the benefit at the expense of another. The
theory of unjust enrichment requires one who acquires a benefit which may not
justly be retained, to return either the thing or its equivalent to the
aggrieved party so as not to be unjustly enriched.” (Lyles v. Sangadeo-Patel (2014) 225 Cal.App.4th 759, 769, quotation
marks and citations omitted.)
 
Notably, “[u]njust enrichment is not a cause of action”; it
is simply “a restitution claim.” (Hill v.
Roll International Corp. (2011) 195 Cal.App.4th 1295, 1307; see also Melchior v. New Line Productions, Inc. (2003)
106 Cal.App.4th 779, 793 [“there is no cause of action in California for unjust
enrichment”].)
 
While a restitution claim can stand on its own, the only
basis that Cross-Complainants allege for acquisition of an unjust benefit is
breach of the fiduciary duty of loyalty. As discussed above, Cross-Complainants
have failed to plead the existence of a fiduciary duty.
 
The Court sustains the demurrer to this claim with leave to
amend.