 This is an employment action in which Plaintiff West asserts claims for FEHA harassment and failure to prevent harassment against Defendants Adams Hummus Bar JV, LLC, Mizlala Wine Bar, Inc., Romaine Hummus Bar JV, LLC, Mizlala Hollywood, Inc., Mizlala Adams Investment Holdings, LLC, Mizlala Romaine Investment Holdings, LLC, Daniel Elmaleh, and Gaspar Garcia.   In related case no. 23STCV00896, West asserts a multitude of FEHA and Labor Code claims against the same Defendants, but not a harassment claim.  23STCV00896 was compelled to arbitration on April 14, 2023.Defendants now seek to compel arbitration of this matter based on an arbitration agreement purportedly signed by Plaintiff Eric West as a component of his employment.Plaintiff argues that “Per appellate law as recent as 2024, the motion to compel arbitration must be denied because Plaintiff first attained his right to sue letter, in relation to the sexual harassment claims, on February 26, 2024 – well beyond the enactment of The Ending Forced Arbitration of Sexual Assault and Sexual Harassment Act of 2021.”Defendants argue that the EFAA does not apply because the harassment at issue accrued before EFAA’s enactment on March 3, 2022.  Defendants point to the fact that Plaintiff resigned from Defendants’ employment on December 14, 2021.  (Compl. ¶ 17)The notes to EFAA indicate that “This Act, and the amendments made by this Act, shall apply with respect to any dispute or claim that arises or accrues on or after the date of enactment of this Act.”Recent authority on this issue has indicated that the words “dispute” and “claim” have different meanings.   “[A] claim arises for the first time when the plaintiff suffers an injury. [ ] A cause of action accrues, and the statute of limitations begins to run, when the last element essential to the cause of action occurs and the plaintiff is entitled to maintain an action. . . . Unlike a claim, however, a dispute does not arise simply because the plaintiff suffers an injury; it additionally requires a disagreement or controversy.”  (Kader v. S. California Med. Ctr., Inc. (2024) 99 Cal.App.5th 214, 223.)  “[T]he date that a dispute has arisen for purposes of the Act is a fact-specific inquiry in each case, but a dispute does not arise solely from the alleged sexual conduct. A dispute arises when one party asserts a right, claim, or demand, and the other side expresses disagreement or takes an adversarial posture. [ ] In other words, ‘[a] dispute cannot arise until both sides have expressed their disagreement, either through words or actions.’ [ ] Until there is a conflict or disagreement, there is nothing to resolve in litigation.”  (Id. at pp. 222–23.)In Kader, it was determined that the EFAA applied because a dispute first arose when a DFEH complaint was filed after March 3, 2022.  Here, Plaintiff’s harassment claim accrued by the time he resigned in December 2021.  A dispute, on the other hand, arose in February 2024 when Plaintiff filed his DFEH complaint and obtained a right-to-sue letter.  Defendants argue that the facts here are different than in Kader because, here, Plaintiff alleges that he complained of the conduct at issue to Defendant Garcia.  The Complaint states, “from September through December 2021, PLAINTIFF told GARCIA to stop calling PLAINTIFF these names. GARCIA persisted despite PLAINTIFF’s requests for GARCIA to stop. GARCIA continued calling PLAINTIFF these names, despite PLAINTIFF’s serious requests that GARCIA stop.” It is difficult to see how a bona fide dispute arises when the victim asks the harasser to cease his conduct and the harasser merely continues harassing or engages in other egregious misconduct in response.  There is no evidence or allegation that Plaintiff lodged a complaint with the other Defendants or that any one disagreed by words or actions that weren’t the underlying harassment or other unlawful conduct.  This is actually similar to the situation in Kader, where the Court stated that “It is unclear from the complaint whether Kader complained about Rasekhi's conduct to anyone other than Rasekhi.”  (Kader v. S. California Med. Ctr., Inc. (2024) 99 Cal.App.5th 214, 219.)   The complaint in Kader alleged that, among other things, “When Plaintiff finally gathered enough courage to reject Defendant Rasekhi’s sexual advances, Defendants Rasekhi and his wife Sheila Busheri retaliated Plaintiff through demotion and financial blackmail in the form of withholding his payments or deducting his pay.”  (Kader Complaint ¶ 5.)  The complaint in Kader also did not indicate that the harassment ended once the plaintiff, Kader, complained to Rasekhi.  To the contrary, as just one example, it states that Kader told Rasekhi in September 2019 that he could never engage in sexual harassment again or he would be reported, but then the Complaint goes on to describe several more assaults, including one in October 2020 when Rasekhi put his hands down Kader’s pants.  That is, Kader asked Rasekhi to stop the harassment, but Rasekhi kept harassing like Garcia is alleged to have done here.  It is quite notable that the Kader Court did not find this to be sufficient to indicate that a dispute had arisen at the time.  The same logic applies here.The Court, thus, concludes that the EFAA applies here because a dispute first arose when Plaintiff filed his DFEH complaint in February 2024, which is after the EFAA’s enactment date of March 3, 2022.Accordingly, the Motion to Compel Arbitration is denied.  Moving parties to give notice.If counsel do not submit on the tentative, they are strongly encouraged to appear by LACourtConnect rather than in person due to the COVID-19 pandemic. 