  Case Number:  23STCV02258    Hearing Date:   December 7, 2023    Dept:  17 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
 
DEPARTMENT
17
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 



MARIA SNTIBANEZ JAUREGUI 
  
        
  vs.
 
GEN TORRANCE,
  LLC, et al. 
 


 Case
  No.:  23STCV02258 
 
 
 
 Hearing Date: December 7, 2023



 
 
            Defendant’s
motion to compel arbitration is CONTINUED, to allow for an evidentiary hearing
to be held. 
 
            On
2/1/2023, Plaintiff Maria Santibanez Jauregui (Plaintiff) filed suit against Defendants
Gen Torrance, LLC and Gabriel Cortez (collectively, Defendants). On 5/11/2021,
Plaintiff filed a first amended complaint (FAC) alleging: (1) sexual
harassment; (2) sexual discrimination; (3) failure to take all reasonable steps
to prevent harassment and discrimination; (4) retaliation; (5) intentional
infliction of emotional distress (IIED); (6) negligent hiring, supervision,
and/or retention; (7) failure to provide meal periods; (8) failure to authorize
and permit rest periods; (9) failure to pay minimum wages; (10) failure to pay
overtime wages; (11) failure to furnish accurate itemized wage statements; (12)
failure to maintain required records; and (13) failure to indemnify employees
for necessary expenditures incurred to discharge of duties. 
 
            Now,
Defendant moves to compel Plaintiff to arbitrate her Complaint, and stay this
action pending the completion of arbitration. 
 
Legal Standard 
 
Where the Court has determined that an agreement to
arbitrate a controversy exists, the Court shall order the petitioner and the
respondent to arbitrate the controversy …unless it determines that…  grounds exist for rescission of the
agreement.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 1281.2.) Among the grounds which can support
rescission are fraud, duress, and unconscionability. (Tiri v. Lucky Chances, Inc. (2014) 226 Cal.App.4th 231, 239.) The
Court may also decline to compel arbitration wherein there is possibility of
conflicting rulings on a common issue of law or fact. (Code Civ. Proc., §
1281.2 (c).) 
 
Discussion 
            
The party moving to compel arbitration “bears the burden
of proving [the] existence [of an arbitration agreement] by a preponderance of
the evidence.” (Rosenthal v. Great
Western Fin. Securities Corp. (1996) 14 Cal.4th 394, 413.) The moving party
also bears the burden of demonstrating that the claims fall within the scope of
the arbitration agreement. (Omar
v. Ralphs Grocery Co. (2004) 118 Cal.App.4th 955, 961.)
 
Defendant
submitted evidence that Plaintiff electronically signed an Employment-At-Will
& Arbitration Agreement, that included a binding arbitration policy, on
8/26/2021. (Gonzalez Decl., Exh. A.) 
 
However, as
preliminary matter, Defendant has not signed the document submitted. 
 
Second, in
opposition, Plaintiff submitted a declaration stating that her highest level of
education is sixth grade in Mexico, that her native and only language is
Spanish, and that she does not read, write, or understand English. (Plaintiff
Decl. ¶ 4.) Plaintiff further states that:
 
On or about
August 26, 2021, I remember Gen Torrance Assistant Manager Emma (last name
unknown) (“Emma”) electronically providing me with onboarding documents via a
document management software program. Due to our prior discussions, Emma knew
that I do not speak, read, or understand English. After Emma sent me the
onboarding documents to sign, she then called me to translate the contents of
certain documents because the documents were written wholly in English. Emma
failed to translate or explain the contents of the Arbitration Agreement to me.
Once Emma finished explaining the contents of my other onboarding documents,
she simply instructed me to sign the Arbitration Agreement without further
explanation. When I asked Emma what the document was that I was asked to sign,
Emma told me that she does not know legal language and could not explain it to
me.  
       
(Plaintiff
Decl. ¶ 6.) 
 
To support
her contention that her manager was aware that she was exclusively a Spanish
speaker and could not read or understand English (and thus always provided
communications in Spanish), Plaintiff submitted a separate document given to
her on 10/10/2021 which was written entirely in Spanish. (Plaintiff Decl., Exh.
A.)  
 
It is
well-established that procedural unconscionability results when an employer
offers an adhesion contract in English to an employee known to lack English
proficiency without explaining the nature of the agreement. (Nunez v.
Cycl[ad] Management, LLC (2022) 77 Cal.App.5th 276, 284; see also
Penilla v. Westmont Corp. (2016) 3 Cal.App.5th 205, 209 (“Procedural
unconscionability arises when an arbitration agreement ‘was neither provided in
a Spanish language copy nor explained to respondents who did not understand
written English.’”). 
 
An
evidentiary hearing is necessary to determine the circumstances of Plaintiff’s
signing, and whether or not she had a reasonable opportunity to discover the
contents of the arbitration agreement.  
 
            Based
on the foregoing, Defendant’s motion to compel arbitration is continued to
allow an evidentiary hearing to be held. 
 
It is so ordered. 
 
Dated:  December   
, 2023
                                                                                                                                                           
   Hon. Jon R.
Takasugi
   Judge of the
Superior Court
 
 
 
Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must
send an email to the court at smcdept17@lacourt.org
by 4 p.m. the day prior as directed by the instructions provided on the court
website at www.lacourt.org.  If a party submits
on the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must
identify the party submitting on the tentative. 
If all parties to a motion submit, the court will adopt this
tentative as the final order.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  For more information, please contact the court clerk at (213)
633-0517.  
 
 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
 
DEPARTMENT
17
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 



MARIA SNTIBANEZ JAUREGUI 
  
        
  vs.
 
GEN TORRANCE,
  LLC, et al. 
 


 Case
  No.:  23STCV02258 
 
 
 
 Hearing Date: December 7, 2023



 
 
Plaintiff’s
motion for leave to file a second amended complaint is GRANTED. 
 
            On
2/1/2023, Plaintiff Maria Santibanez Jauregui (Plaintiff) filed suit against
Defendants Gen Torrance, LLC and Gabriel Cortez (collectively, Defendants). On
5/11/2021, Plaintiff filed a first amended complaint (FAC) alleging: (1) sexual
harassment; (2) sexual discrimination; (3) failure to take all reasonable steps
to prevent harassment and discrimination; (4) retaliation; (5) intentional
infliction of emotional distress (IIED); (6) negligent hiring, supervision,
and/or retention; (7) failure to provide meal periods; (8) failure to authorize
and permit rest periods; (9) failure to pay minimum wages; (10) failure to pay
overtime wages; (11) failure to furnish accurate itemized wage statements; (12)
failure to maintain required records; and (13) failure to indemnify employees
for necessary expenditures incurred to discharge of duties. 
 
            Now,
Plaintiff moves for leave to file a second amended complaint (SAC). 
 
Discussion  
 
            Plaintiff
seeks leave to amend to add additional facts about the alleged sexual
harassment by Defendant Gabriel Eduardo Tovar, in order to oppose Defendant’s
pending motion to compel arbitration. 
 
            One
of Plaintiff’s grounds for opposing Defendant’s motion to compel further is
based on the Ending Forced Arbitration of Sexual Assault and Sexual Harassment
Act of 2021 (EFAA). Under the EFAA, claims of sexual harassment occurring after
March 3, 2022 may not be compelled to arbitration. (See Johnson v. Everyrealm,
Inc. (S.D.N.Y., Feb. 24, 2023, No. 22 CIV. 6669 (PAE)) 2023 WL 2216173, at
*10. (“The EFAA applies only to claims that accrued on or after March 3, 2022,
the day President Biden signed the EFAA into law; it does not have retroactive
effect.”).)
 
            Here,
Plaintiff seeks to add allegations to show that she has suffered harassment
past 3/2/2022, to “ensure that Plaintiff does not risk her claims being
wrongfully compelled to arbitration on the basis of the accrual date.” (Motion,
6: 24-25.) 
 
            In
opposition, Defendant argues that Plaintiff is attempting to violate the sham
pleadings doctrine, given that “Plaintiff has already filed two separate
Complaints that both specifically allege that she suffered sexual harassment
before March 3, 2022.” (Opp., 1: 14-15.)
 
            However,
the Court accepts well-pled allegations as true at the pleading stage.
Plaintiff remains a current employee of Defendant, and submitted a declaration
that she has continued to experiencing ongoing harassment by Tovar since the
time she filed her initial complaint. As such, Plaintiff has offered a
plausible explanation for why these allegations were not included in previous
versions of her Complaint. Accepted as true, these allegations could show that
she has experienced harassment after March 3, 2022, and are not inconsistent
with her previous allegations. 
 
            The policy favoring leave to amend is so strong that it is an
abuse of discretion to deny an amendment unless the adverse party can show
meaningful prejudice. (Atkinson v. Elk Corp. (2003) 109 Cal.App.4th
739, 761.)
 
            Here, the motion to compel arbitration was continued to
allow for an evidentiary hearing to be held. Moreover, this action is in its
infancy, and trial is not until February 2023. As such, the Court finds no
evidence of meaningful prejudice if leave to amend is granted. 
 
            Based on the foregoing, Plaintiff’s
motion for leave to file a second amended complaint is granted. 
 
It is so ordered. 
 
Dated:  December   
, 2023
                                                                                                                                                           
   Hon. Jon R.
Takasugi
   Judge of the
Superior Court
 
 
 
Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must
send an email to the court at smcdept17@lacourt.org
by 4 p.m. the day prior as directed by the instructions provided on the court
website at www.lacourt.org.  If a party submits
on the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must
identify the party submitting on the tentative. 
If all parties to a motion submit, the court will adopt this tentative
as the final order.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  For more information, please contact the court clerk at (213)
633-0517.  
 
 