 Case Number:  22TRCV00231    Hearing Date:   January 18, 2024    Dept:  B 
LOS ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT –
SOUTHWEST DISTRICT
 
 
Honorable Gary Y. Tanaka                                                                                   Thursday,
January 18, 2024
Department B                                                                                                                          Calendar No. 13    



 
 
PROCEEDINGS
 
Pacific
Coast Co., Ltd. dba Brincfi v. Daniel Choi, et al. 
22TRCV00231
1.     
Pacific Coast Co., Ltd.’s Demurrer to Second Amended Cross-Complaint 
2.     
Pacific Coast Co., Ltd.’s Motion to Strike Portions of Second Amended Cross-Complaint  
 
TENTATIVE RULING
      
      Pacific Coast Co., Ltd.’s Demurrer to Second Amended Cross-Complaint
is overruled. 
 
      Pacific Coast Co., Ltd.’s Motion to Strike Portions of Second
Amended Cross-Complaint is denied.
 
Background
 
            Plaintiff
filed the Complaint on March 28, 2022, and the First Amended Complaint on June
10, 2022. Plaintiff alleges the following facts. In December 2020, Defendant Daniel
Choi approached Luke Shim, Plaintiff Pacific Coast Co., Ltd. dba Brincfi’s
(“Bricfi”) CEO. Defendant was interested in becoming Brincfi’s head of
engineering. Defendant falsely represented to Shim that he was legitimately
interested in working for Brincfi and in providing engineering services. Brincfi
entered into an agreement with Defendant Choi in January 2021 and appointed him
head of engineering. Defendant had access to the source code of Brincfi’s smart
contract system. Defendant modified the system to steal digital tokens
deposited by Brincfi’s customers into his personal accounts. On or about
December 14, 2021, Choi transferred approximately $1,104,602 worth of tokens
into his own accounts. Defendant then laundered the money. Plaintiff alleges
the following causes of action: 1. Conversion; 2. Intentional Fraud; 3. Breach
of Contract; 4. Breach of Covenant of Good Faith and Fair Dealing; 5. Unjust
Enrichment.
 
            On
March 30, 2023, Daniel Choi filed a Cross-Complaint alleging the following
causes of action: 1. Breach of Contract; 2. Breach of the Implied Covenant of
Good Faith and Fair Dealing; 3. Fraud; 4. Conversion; 5. Unjust Enrichment; 6.
Common Count.  
 
            On
June 6, 2023, Cross-Defendant’s Demurrer to the Cross-Complaint was sustained
with 20 days leave to amend. On June 28, 2023, Cross-Complainant filed the
First Amended Cross-Complaint which alleged the same causes of action as above
except for the Conversion cause of action which was omitted. On August 24,
2023, Cross-Defendant’s demurrer to the third cause of action for fraud of the
First Amended Cross-Complaint was sustained with 20 days leave to amend. A
Second Amended Cross-Complaint was filed on September 21, 2023.
 
            Meet and Confer
 
            Cross-Defendant set forth a meet and confer declaration
in sufficient compliance with CCP § 430.41 and CCP § 435.5. (Decl., Christopher
J. Lee, ¶ 2).
 
            Demurrer
 
            A
demurrer tests the sufficiency of a complaint as a matter of law and raises
only questions of law. (Schmidt v. Foundation Health (1995) 35
Cal.App.4th 1702, 1706.)  In testing the
sufficiency of the complaint, the court must assume the truth of (1) the
properly pleaded factual allegations; (2) facts that can be reasonably inferred
from those expressly pleaded; and (3) judicially noticed matters. (Blank v.
Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311, 318.) 
The Court may not consider contentions, deductions, or conclusions of
fact or law.  (Moore v. Conliffe
(1994) 7 Cal.App.4th 634, 638.)  Because
a demurrer tests the legal sufficiency of a complaint, the plaintiff must show
that the complaint alleges facts sufficient to establish every element of each
cause of action.  (Rakestraw v.
California Physicians Service (2000) 81 Cal.App.4th 39, 43.)  Where the complaint fails to state facts
sufficient to constitute a cause of action, courts should sustain the
demurrer.  (C.C.P., § 430.10(e); Zelig
v. County of Los Angeles (2002) 27 Cal.App.4th 1112, 1126.)
 
Sufficient facts are the essential facts
of the case "with reasonable precision and with particularity sufficiently
specific to acquaint the defendant with the nature, source, and extent of his
cause of action.”  (Gressley v.
Williams (1961) 193 Cal.App.2d 636, 643-644.)  "Whether the plaintiff will be able to
prove the pleaded facts is irrelevant to ruling upon the demurrer."  (Stevens v. Superior Court (1986) 180
Cal.App.3d 605, 609–610.)  Under Code
Civil Procedure § 430.10(f), a demurrer may also be sustained if a complaint is
“uncertain.”  Uncertainty exists where a
complaint’s factual allegations are so confusing they do not sufficiently
apprise a defendant of the issues it is being asked to meet.  (Williams v. Beechnut Nutrition Corp.
(1986) 185 Cal.App.3d 135, 139, fn. 2.)
            Cross-Defendant
demurs to the third cause of action of the Second Amended Cross-Complaint on
the grounds that the cause of action fails to state sufficient facts to
constitute a cause of action against Cross-Defendant. 
 
            Third
Cause of Action for Fraud
 
            The
demurrer to the third cause of action is overruled. Cross-Complainant states facts
sufficient to constitute a cause of action.
 
            “A
complaint for fraud must allege the following elements: (1) a knowingly false
representation by the defendant; (2) an intent to deceive or induce reliance;
(3) justifiable reliance by the plaintiff; and (4) resulting damages.”  Service by Medallion, Inc. v. Clorox Co.
(1996) 44 Cal.App.4th 1807, 1816. “[T]he elements of an action for fraud and
deceit based on a concealment are: (1) the defendant must have concealed or
suppressed a material fact, (2) the defendant must have been under a duty to
disclose the fact to the plaintiff, (3) the defendant must have intentionally
concealed or suppressed the fact with the intent to defraud the plaintiff, (4)
the plaintiff must have been unaware of the fact and would not have acted as he
did if he has known of the concealed or suppressed fact, and (5) as a result of
the concealment or suppression of the fact, the plaintiff must have sustained
damage.” Boschma v. Home Loan Center, Inc. (2011) 198 Cal.App.4th 230,
248. “Every element of the cause of action for fraud must be alleged in the
proper manner and the facts constituting the fraud must be alleged with
sufficient specificity to allow defendant to understand fully the nature of the
charge made.”  Tarmann v. State Farm
Mut. Auto. Ins. Co. (1991) 2 Cal.App.4th 153, 157.  Plaintiffs must state facts which “show how,
when, where, to whom, and by what means the representations were
tendered.”  Lazar v. Superior Court (1996) 12 Cal.4th 631, 645.
 
            Cross-Complainant
alleges that Luke Shim, an officer, director, and/or managing agent of Brincfi,
represented to Plaintiff that Cross-Defendant Brincfi would hire a computer
programmer and would pay for the programmer’s services.  (SACC, ¶¶ 18-19.) Thus, apparently, Cross-Complainant
contends that he was induced to enter into a contract with Cross-Defendant. Cross-Complainant
has alleged specific facts as to how, when, where, to whom, and by what means
the representation was made.  (Id.) 
 
            The
allegations regarding Shim’s authority to speak for Cross-Defendant is made on
information and belief. “[P]laintiff may allege on information and belief any
matters that are not within his personal knowledge, if he has information
leading him to believe that the allegations are true and thus a pleading made
on information and belief is insufficient if it merely assert[s] the facts so
alleged without alleging such information that lead[s] [the plaintiff] to
believe that the allegations are true.”  Gomes
v. Countrywide Home Loans, Inc. (2011) 192 Cal.App.4th 1149, 1158–1159
(internal citations and quotations are omitted; emphasis in original.) As to
the allegation made on “information and belief,” Cross-Complainant has now
alleged the underlying facts that would support the contention that the belief
is true. (SACC, ¶ 18.)
 
            Cross-Complainant
has alleged specific facts to meet the elements of the cause of action
including false representation, intent to deceive, justifiable reliance, and
damages. (SACC, ¶¶ 17-24). In addition, as to the specificity requirement to
plead fraud, that requirement may be relaxed when Defendant has superior
knowledge and/or full knowledge of the facts. Practical considerations may make
specificity of pleadings impractical when the facts are within a Defendant’s
knowledge. Committee on Children's Television v. General Foods Corp.
(1983) 35 Cal.3d 197.  
 
            “[T]he
economic loss rule provides: [W]here a purchaser's expectations in a sale are
frustrated because the product he bought is not working properly, his remedy is
said to be in contract alone, for he has suffered only ‘economic’ losses. This
doctrine hinges on a distinction drawn between transactions involving the sale
of goods for commercial purposes where economic expectations are protected by
commercial and contract law, and those involving the sale of defective products
to individual consumers who are injured in a manner which has traditionally
been remedied by resort to the law of torts. The economic loss rule requires a
purchaser to recover in contract for purely economic loss due to disappointed
expectations, unless he can demonstrate harm above and beyond a broken
contractual promise. Quite simply, the economic loss rule prevent[s] the law of
contract and the law of tort from dissolving one into the other.” Robinson
Helicopter Co., Inc. v. Dana Corp. (2004) 34 Cal.4th 979, 988 (internal
citations and quotations omitted). “[C]onduct amounting to a breach of contract
becomes tortious only when it also violates a duty independent of the contract
arising from principles of tort law. An omission to perform a contract
obligation is never a tort, unless that omission is also an omission of a legal
duty.” Erlich v. Menezes (1999) 21 Cal.4th 543, 551 (internal citations
and quotations omitted). Cross-Defendant argues that the cause of action is
duplicative of the Breach of Contract cause of action and that Cross-Complainant
is attempting to recover in tort for a contractual obligation. However, here, Cross-Complainant
alleges specific facts to state Cross-Defendant’s duty separate and apart from
the duty imposed within the contract because the alleged fraud is based on
inducement to enter into the agreement rather than a failure to comply with the
terms of the agreement. 
 
            The
demurrer to the third cause of action is overruled. 
 
            Motion
to Strike  
 
            The
court may, upon a motion, or at any time in its discretion, and upon terms it
deems proper, strike any irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted in any
pleading.  CCP § 436(a).  The court may also strike all or any part of
any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of this state, a
court rule, or an order of the court. 
CCP § 436(b).  The grounds for a
motion to strike are that the pleading has irrelevant, false or improper
matter, or has not been drawn or filed in conformity with laws.  CCP § 436. 
The grounds for moving to strike must appear on the face of the pleading
or by way of judicial notice.  CCP § 437.
 
            Cross-Defendant
moves to strike the following allegations and prayer, related to Cross-Complainant’s
claim for punitive damages, as false, irrelevant, and/or improper: 
 
            “Page 5, lines 17-21 (Paragraph 24):
“Cross-Defendants’ conduct was intentional, malicious, and oppressive and was
done with the intention of depriving Cross-Complainant of property and legal
rights and otherwise causing injury and was despicable conduct that subjected
Cross-Complainant to cruel and unjust hardship in conscious disregard of
Cross-Complainant’s rights so as to justify an award of punitive damages in an
amount to be determined according to proof at the time of trial.” Page 6, lines
25-26: “b. For punitive damages in an amount to be determined according to
proof at the time of trial.” (Notice of Motion, page 2, lines 9-17).
 
            Civ.
Code, § 3294 states, in relevant part: “(a) In an action for the breach of an
obligation not arising from contract, where it is proven by clear and
convincing evidence that the defendant has been guilty of oppression, fraud, or
malice, the plaintiff, in addition to the actual damages, may recover damages
for the sake of example and by way of punishing the defendant.” 
 
            The
motion to strike is denied because Cross-Complainant has alleged specific facts
to state a claim for punitive damages based on the properly pled fraud cause of
action. 
 
            Cross-Defendant
is ordered to file an Answer to the SACC within 10 days of this date.
 
            Cross-Complainant
is ordered to give notice of this ruling. 