 Case Number:  22TRCV01540    Hearing Date:   January 18, 2024    Dept:  B Hearing
Date:                          January 18,
2024
Moving Parties:                      (1)-(2) Defendant Trang
Luyen, (3) plaintiff HL Group 2 Limited Partnership 
Responding Party:                  (1)-(2) Plaintiff HL Group 2
Limited Partnership, (3) defendant Trang Luyen
(1)  
Motion
to Compel Further Responses to the First Set of Special Interrogatories
(2)  
Motion
to Compel Further Responses to the First Set of Requests for Production of
Documents  
(3)  
Motion
for Protective Order
            The court considered the moving, opposition,
and reply papers.
RULING
            The motions to compel are ruled on
as stated below.
            The motion for protective order is ruled
on as stated below.
BACKGROUND
On December 20, 2022, plaintiff HL
Group 2 Limited Partnership filed a complaint against defendants Trang Luyen,
Truc Luyen, Huan Luyen, Loanco Mortgage Services LLC (“Luyen defendants”), and
Stephanie Lan Nguyen for (1) slander of title, (2) cancellation of instrument,
(3) intentional interference with contractual relations (between partners), (4)
intentional interference with contractual relations (with third parties), (5)
notarial misconduct, and (6) declaratory relief. 
            On March 30, 2023, Stephanie Lan
Nguyen filed a cross-complaint against Luyen defendants (1) equitable
indemnity, (2) implied indemnity, (3) declaratory relief, (4) negligence, (5)
abuse of process, (6) IIED, (7) intentional interference with prospective
economic advantage, and (8) negligent interference with prospective economic
advantage.
            On May 12, 2023, plaintiff filed an
amendment to designating Merchants Bonding Company as Doe 1.
            On May 15, 2023, pursuant to a
stipulation, plaintiff filed a FAC for (1) slander of title, (2) fraud
(concealment), (3) intentional interference with contractual relations, (4)
intentional interference with prospective economic advantage, (5) negligent interference
with prospective economic advantage, and (6) notarial negligence and/or
misconduct. 
            On August 4, 2023, the court
sustained Stephanie Lan Nguyen’s demurrer to the 6th cause of action
with leave to amend.
            On August 17, 2023, plaintiff filed
a SAC.
            On October 23, 2023, the Luyen
defendants filed a cross-complaint against 1st Reliant Home Loans,
Inc. and Craig Chang for (1) breach of fiduciary duty, (2) demand for
accounting, (3) breach of contract, (4) fraud, and (5) conversion.
LEGAL AUTHORITY
Compel further responses
45-Day Rule: 
This motion must be served within 45 days after service of the response
in question (extended if served by mail, overnight delivery, or fax; see CCP
§1013); otherwise, the demanding party waives the right to compel any further
response to the CCP §2031.010 demand. 
CCP §§2031.310(c), 2016.050; see Sperber
v. Robinson (1994) 26 Cal. App. 4th 736, 745.  The 45-day time limit is mandatory and
jurisdictional.  Sexton v. Superior Court (1997) 58 Cal. App. 4th 1403, 1410.  The parties, however, can also agree in
writing on a specific later date by which to file the motion to compel.  CCP §2031.310(c). 
Meet-and-Confer Requirement: 
The motion to compel further responses must be accompanied by a
declaration showing “a reasonable and good faith attempt” to resolve the issues
outside of court (so-called “meet and confer”). 
CCP §§2016.040, 2031.310(b)(2).
Separate Statement: 
Any motion involving the content of a discovery request or the responses
to such a request shall be accompanied by a separate statement.  This includes a motion to compel further
responses to demand for inspection of documents or tangible things.  CRC Rule 3.1020(a)(3).  
Interrogatories
CCP §2030.300 states:  “(a) On receipt of a response to
interrogatories, the propounding party may move for an order compelling a
further response if the propounding party deems that any of the following
apply:   (1) An answer to a particular
interrogatory is evasive or incomplete. . . . (3) An objection to an
interrogatory is without merit or too general. 
(b) A motion under subdivision (a) shall be accompanied by a meet and
confer declaration under Section 2016.040. (c) Unless notice of this motion is
given within 45 days of the service of the verified response, or any
supplemental verified response, or on or before any specific later date to
which the propounding party and the responding party have agreed in writing,
the propounding party waives any right to compel a further response to the
interrogatories. . . .”
Request for Production of Documents
On receipt of a response to an
inspection demand, the demanding party may move for an order compelling further
responses to the demand if the demanding party deems that any of the following
apply:  (1) a statement of compliance
with the demand is incomplete; (2) a representation of inability to comply is
inadequate, incomplete, or evasive; or (3) an objection in the response is
without merit or too general.  CCP §
2031.310(a).  A statement of compliance
shall state that the production, inspection, and related activity demanded will
be allowed either in whole or in part, and that all documents or things in the
demanded category that are in the possession, custody, or control of that party
and to which no objection is being made will be included in the production.  CCP § 2031.220.  “A representation of inability to comply with
[a] particular demand for inspection . . . shall affirm that a diligent search
and reasonable inquiry has been made in an effort to comply with that
demand.  This statement shall also specify
whether the inability to comply is because the particular item or category has
never existed, has been destroyed, has been lost, misplaced, or stolen, or has
never been, or is no longer, in the possession, custody, or control of the
responding party.  This statement shall
set forth the name and address of any natural person or organization known or
believed by that party to have possession, custody, or control of that item or
category of item.”  CCP § 2031.230. 
A motion to compel further response
to requests for production “shall set forth specific facts showing good cause
justifying the discovery sought by the inspection demand.”  CCP § 2031.310(b)(1).  “To establish ‘good cause,’ the burden is on
the moving party to show both:  [1] Relevance to the subject matter (e.g.,
how the information in the documents would tend to prove or disprove some issue
in the case); and [2] Specific facts justifying discovery
(e.g., why such information is necessary for trial preparation or to prevent
surprise at trial).  The fact that there
is no alternative source for the
information sought is an important factor in establishing ‘good cause’ for
inspection.  But it is not essential in every case.”  Weil & Brown, Civil Procedure Before Trial, 8:1495.6 (citations omitted).  “Declarations are generally used to show the
requisite ‘good cause’ for an order to compel inspection.  The declarations must contain ‘specific facts’
rather than mere conclusions.”  Id. at 8:1495.7 (citation omitted).  “The declarations may be on information and
belief, if necessary.  However, in such
cases, the ‘specific facts’ supporting such information and belief (the sources
of the information) must also be alleged.” 
Id. at 8:1495.8 (citation
omitted).  “Most declarations are made by
the attorney for the moving party, who is usually more familiar with the
relevancy and ‘specific facts’ constituting ‘good cause’ for inspection.”  Id.
at 8:1495.9.
“If ‘good cause’ is shown by the moving
party, the burden is then on the responding party to justify any objections
made to document disclosure (the same as on motions to compel answers to
interrogatories or deposition questions. . . ).”  Id.
at 8:1496 (citation omitted).  
Protective Order
            Under CCP §2031.060, (a) When an
inspection, copying, testing, or sampling of documents, tangible things,
places, or electronically stored information has been demanded, the party to
whom the demand has been directed, and any other party or affected person, may
promptly move for a protective order.  This
motion shall be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration under Section
2016.040.
(b) The court, for good cause
shown, may make any order that justice requires to protect any party or other
person from unwarranted annoyance, embarrassment, or oppression, or undue
burden and expense. This protective order may include, but is not limited to,
one or more of the following directions:
(1) That all or some of the items
or categories of items in the demand need not be produced or made available at
all. . . .
(g) If the motion for a protective
order is denied in whole or in part, the court may order that the party to whom
the demand was directed provide or permit the discovery against which
protection was sought on terms and conditions that are just.
(h) Except as provided in
subdivision (i), the court shall impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7
(commencing with Section 2023.010) against any party, person, or attorney who
unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion for a protective order, unless it
finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification
or that other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.”  See also CCP §2031.060 as to interrogatories.
DISCUSSION
            Motions
to Compel Further Responses
Defendant
Trang Luyen requests an order compelling plaintiff HL Group 2 Limited
Partnership to respond further to Special Interrogatories, Set One, Nos. 1-19 and
Request for Production of Documents, Nos. 1-120.
The SAC
alleges that plaintiff is a limited partnership, consisting of one general
partner 1st Reliant Home Loans and limited partners, including Luminous Pearl,
LLC.  SAC, ¶1.  Trang Luyen and Truc Luyen are managing
partners of Luminous.  Id., ¶¶2-3.  Huan Lyen is the brother of Trang and Truc
and is the managing member of Loanco. 
Id., ¶¶4-5.  Stephanie Lan Nguyen
was a California Notary Public and a senior escrow officer and manager employed
by Mainstream Escrow.  Id., ¶6.  In July 2020, through prior business dealings
unrelated to this matter, Huan introduced Trang and Truc to Craig Chang, the
president of 1st Reliant. 
After their initial meeting, several more meetings took place in which
Luminous and 1st Reliant entered into an oral agreement with the
objective of forming a limited partnership for investment purposes.  Id., ¶10. 
In September 2020, Huan informed 1st Reliant, through Craig
Change, that he had located a parcel of real property that he could acquire
through Loanco for the investment purpose. 
Id., ¶11.  The parties agreed to
form the plaintiff limited partnership with 1st Reliant as the
general partner and Luminous as a limited partner.  Id., ¶12. 

The SAC
further alleges that on August 20, 2020, Loanco acquired the 961 E. 68th Street,
Inglewood property from PM Investment Group. 
Id., ¶13.  Concurrent with the
acquisition of the property, plaintiff was formally registered.  Id., ¶15. 
On September 1 or 2, 2020, 1st Reliant and Luminous entered
into a written limited partnership agreement. 
Id., ¶16.  On September 2, Loanco borrowed
$1,360,000 from Pacific Point Fund (“PPF”), using the property as security for
that loan.  Id., ¶17.  On December 22, 2020, in consideration of
plaintiff’s agreement to assume the financial responsibility to complete the
conversion of the property into three parcels with residential units thereon
for the benefit of plaintiff and in particular for the benefit of his sisters
Trang and Truc via Luminous, Loanco conveyed its interest in and to the
property to plaintiff by way of quitclaim deed. 
The property became the only partnership asset held by plaintiff for the
investment purpose described above.  Id.,
¶18.  As its general partner, 1st Reliant
is the exclusive manager of plaintiff. 
In accordance with its management duties, 1st Reliant
undertook the management of plaintiff and its subdivision and development of
the property.  Id., ¶19.  To complete the subdivision and construction
of the project, 1st Reliant borrowed $450,000 on April 1, 2022 from Mango
Holdings and $200,000 in October/November 2022. 
Id., ¶20.
The SAC further
alleges that in July 2022, 1st Reliant became aware that monthly mortgage and
interest payments which Loanco and/or Huan Luyen was responsible to make to PPF
by prior agreement between Huan and plaintiff had not been paid and that PPF
had caused a Notice of Default to be recorded to commence a non-judicial
foreclosure sale of the property.  Id., ¶21.  In October 2022, PPF recorded a notice of
foreclosure sale, with a scheduled sale date of November 2, 2022.  Id., ¶22. 
In an effort to sell the three residential units on the subdivided
property, 1st Reliant, on behalf of plaintiff, entered into a real estate
listing agreement with Craig Chang in his capacity as a licensed real estate
broker.  Id., ¶23.  In October 2022, plaintiff entered into
residential real estate purchase/sale agreements for each of the three
properties.  Id., ¶¶25-27.  On December 6, 2022, a completed subdivision
map for the property was approved and recorded. 
Id., ¶28.  On December 14, 2022, a
condominium plan was completed and recorded. 
Id., ¶30.
The SAC also
alleges that due to delays in obtaining the approval and recording of the
parcel subdivision map, the condominium plan and HOA CC&Rs, the close of
escrow for all three parcels was delayed until December 23, 2022.  Id., ¶31. 
Upon being informed of the three pending sales and delays, PPF agreed to
extensions of the foreclosure sale date until December 28, 2022 to allow the
sales to be completed.  Id., ¶32.  On December 16, 2022, a grant deed was
recorded, purporting to convey title to the property from plaintiff back to
Loanco.  Id., ¶33, Exh. 10.  The Exhibit 10 grant deed was purportedly
executed on April 5, 2022 by Trang and Truc, as individuals on behalf of
plaintiff, without any indication of authorization to do so.  Neither Trang or Truc are limited or general
partners of plaintiff and did not have authority to execute Exhibit 10.  Id., ¶34. 
The signatures of Trang and Truc on Exhibit 10 grant deed purports to be
notarized on April 6, 2022 by Nguyen. 
The grant deed directs the mailing of the recorded document and tax
statement to Huan on behalf of Loanco. 
Id., ¶35.  After the filing and
recording of the grant deed, Huan and Craig Chang had telephonic and email
communications.  In those communications,
Huan agreed he would rescind the grant deed and allow the pending escrows to be
completed on the conditions that:  (1)
plaintiff provided all statements, invoices, and receipts (an accounting); (2)
plaintiff cause the second trust deed of $450,000 to be removed; and (3) that
only the real estate listing and selling fees on one of the properties would be
paid to Chang.  Although not expressly
stated, presumably all other proceeds were to be distributed to Trang and
Truc.  Id., ¶37.  As a direct result of the recording of the
grant deed and the cloud it created on the title to the property, plaintiff was
unable to convey title of the three subdivided parcels of the property to close
the escrows for the sale.  Instead, the
property was sold at a non-judicial foreclosure sale conducted at the request
of the first trust deed mortgage holder, PFF, on January 18, 2023.  Id., ¶38. 
            Defendant asserts that on July 13,
2023, defendant Luyen propounded written discovery on plaintiff.  Plaintiff’s responses were due by August 15,
2023.  On August 8, plaintiff requested
an extension “to respond to outstanding discovery.”  The parties purportedly agreed that
plaintiff’s new response date would be on August 22.  Defendant contends that on August 21, 2023,
plaintiff served its responses.  On
August 24, 2023, defense counsel emailed a meet and confer.  Defendant asserts that from August 24 to September
6, 2023, defense counsel attempted to informally resolve the discovery
dispute.  On September 11, 2023,
plaintiff affirmed that it would not provide supplemental responses.
                                    Special Interrogatories
            Defendant argues that plaintiff’s
objections were waived because the responses were untimely served.  Defendant asserts that as to plaintiff’s
August 8 request for an extension to respond to “outstanding discovery,” such
request referred to other discovery that plaintiff failed to serve timely
responses and that the responses to the special interrogatories and request for
production of documents were not “outstanding” when plaintiff requested an
extension. 
            In
opposition, plaintiff contends that it did not waive any objections as there
was a written agreement to extend the time for plaintiff’s responses to August
22.
            The
court rules as follows:  The court finds
that plaintiff did not waive its objections and that it timely responded based
on the August 8 email requesting an extension to August 22.  It is not unreasonable that plaintiff’s
counsel understood that the extension applied to the herein discovery.
            As
to No. 1 (provide Craig Chang’s contact information), plaintiff responded that
he is the officer in charge of 1st Reliant, general partner of
plaintiff, and “may be contacted through the offices of John M. Boyko, attorney
for plaintiff.”  Plaintiff also objected
that it is compound, overly broad, and/or irrelevant.  The court finds that none of plaintiff’s
objections have merit.
            As
to Nos. 2-19, the court finds that plaintiff’s objections lack merit.  These interrogatories are contention
interrogatories that request plaintiff to describe all facts, with
particularity, that support “YOUR” contention alleged in the various paragraphs
of the FAC.  “YOUR” can only mean
plaintiff as it is the only party making a contention in the pleading.  As to referencing the FAC, contention
interrogatories are proper and reference the allegations in the pleading.  The court notes though that the FAC is no
longer the operative pleading.
            The motion is GRANTED and orders
that defendant is to provide plaintiff within ten days the corresponding
paragraphs in the SAC so that plaintiff can respond with respect to the SAC.  Plaintiff is to serve further responses
within 20 days from when it receives the SAC’s corresponding paragraphs as to
Nos. 2-19.
 
                                    Request for Production of
Documents  
            Defendant
argues that plaintiff’s objections are waived because it did not serve timely
responses.  Defendant argues that as to
Nos. 1, 85, 86, 87, and 115, although plaintiff agreed to produce documents,
plaintiff failed to sort and label the documents.  Defendant also argues that even if
plaintiff’s objections were not waived, plaintiff failed to produce a privilege
log based on its privilege objections. 
Further, defendant contends, the responses are not code-compliant
because they do not comport with CCP §2031.230.
            In opposition, plaintiff argues
that the responses were timely because counsel had agreed on an extension.  As to No. 1, plaintiff had responded, “this
responding party has heretofore produced the documents described as attachments
to the responses to the subject form interrogatories” and produced 419
documents and photographs, bate stamped with divider tabs referring to each
form interrogatory; thus, plaintiff argues, its document production is
compliant.  As to No. 85, plaintiff
acknowledges that it inadvertently did not attach documents, but it has since
done so.  As to Nos. 86 and 87, plaintiff
contends that its responses consist of objections based on “asked and answered”
and are duplicative of No. 82.  As to No.
115, which requests all documents evidencing all assets held by plaintiff, a
copy of the deed is attached to the SAC. 
Further, plaintiff argues, its responses were code-compliant.  As to a privilege log, plaintiff contends
that it asserted the attorney-client privilege as to No. 89 (which seeks
retainer agreement) and as to No. 90, plaintiff responded that no documents exist,
and that a privilege log is unnecessary for one document, as plaintiff has
already responded with counsel’s hourly rate.
            In
reply, defendant contends that the initial extension was withdrawn by defendant
because plaintiff refused to provide reciprocal extensions for its discovery
deadlines.  Defendant also asserts that
plaintiff’s responses served on October 12, 2023 as to Nos. 85 and 115 were
unverified.
            The
court rules as follows:  The court finds
that plaintiff did not waive its objections as counsel agreed to provide
plaintiff an extension to respond.
As to No.
1 (all documents that YOU identified or described in YOUR responses to the form
interrogatories), plaintiff responded “this responding party has heretofore
produced the documents described as attachments to the responses to the subject
form interrogatories.”  Defendant
contends that plaintiff “failed to sort and label the documents so that Luyen
knows which documents are responsive to the request).  It seems that defendant should be able to
identify the responsive documents as they were produced as to the form
interrogatories and that plaintiff’s response is sufficient.
            As
to Nos. 2-81, they request all documents that support “YOUR” contentions
alleged in the paragraphs of the FAC. 
Plaintiff responded by objecting to the terms “YOU” and “YOUR” and that
the requests were overly broad and burdensome as they fail to designate the
specific documents sought or reasonably particularizing each category.
            The court finds that plaintiff’s
objections lack merit.  The objection as
to the terms is deficient as plaintiff is the only one who is and could make
contentions.  Also, the documents sought
are “all documents” that support plaintiff’s contentions.  Thus, the requests are not overly broad or
burdensome.  As stated above, the court
does note that the FAC is no longer the operative complaint and that it appears
that the SAC is virtually the same except that the paragraphs do not align
exactly.   
            As
to Nos. 82 (all documents that support YOUR prayer for economic damages), 83
(prayer for non-economic damages), 84 (prayer for exemplary and punitive
damages), 85 (prayer for costs) plaintiff asserts the same two objections,
which as stated above, the court finds lack merit.  Of note, only plaintiff is seeking damages;
thus, the terms are not overly broad or improper.  
            As
to Nos. 86 and 87 (all documents that support prayer for economic damages),
they are duplicative of No. 82.
            As
to No. 88 (all documents that support prayer for attorney’s fees), plaintiff
responded “No documents . . . yet exist because no attorney’s fees have yet
been paid.”  This response is sufficient.
            As
to No. 89 (all documents that evidence YOUR retention of John Boyko), plaintiff
asserted attorney-client privilege and responded that plaintiff retained Boyko
on December 19, 2022 and that pursuant to the retention agreement, the
professional fees are $500/hr.  Plaintiff
failed to provide a privilege log, although it appears that it would only
include one document.  See CCP
§2031.240(c)(1).  
            As
to No. 90 (retainer agreements), plaintiff responded that it has not retained
any other attorneys other than Boyko and that no documents exist.  The court notes that a retainer agreement
appears to exist as to Boyko and thus would be responsive.  See No. 89.
            Nos.
91-95 seek all communications between YOU and the Luyen defendants and Nguyen.  Plaintiff objected that the requests are
overly broad.  Plaintiff’s objections
lack merit. 
            Nos.
96-101 seek all communications between Craig Chang and the Luyen defendants and
Nguyen and any other person regarding the allegations in the FAC.  Plaintiff objected that the requests are
overly broad and/or unduly burdensome.  Plaintiff’s
objections lack merit.
            As No.
102 (copy of Chang’s driver’s license), plaintiff objected that the request is
overly broad and/or irrelevant and seeks documents from a third party.  Plaintiff’s objections have merit and
defendant has not shown good cause.
As to
Nos. 103 and 104 (all documents that evidence any capitalization of plaintiff
by Chang and 1st Reliant), plaintiff objected on the grounds the
requests are overly broad and/or irrelevant. 
Defendant contends that such documents are necessary to prepare her
defenses and “to avoid surprise and gamesmanship” but does not explain
how.  Defendant has not shown good cause.
As to No.
105 (all communications between Chang and 1st Reliant re allegations
in the FAC) and No. 106 (all communications between Chang and Luminous Pearl re
allegations in the FAC), plaintiff objected on the grounds the requests are
overly broad and/or irrelevant and seek documents from third parties.  Defendant has not shown good cause.
As to No.
107 (corporate structure of 1st Reliant), No. 108 (1st
Reliant’s corporate minutes from January 1, 2017 to present), 110 (1st
Reliant’s tax filings from January 1, 2015 to present), plaintiff objected that
the requests are overly broad and/or irrelevant and seek documents from third
parties.  Defendant has not shown good
cause and plaintiff’s objections have merit.
As to No.
109 (plaintiff’s minutes from Jan. 1, 2017 to present), No. 111 (plaintiff’s
tax filings from January 1, 2015 to present), and 112 (plaintiff’s “books and
records, accounting and taxes” as described in Article 7 of the partnership
agreement), plaintiff objected that the requests are overly broad and/or
irrelevant.  Defendant has not shown good
cause and plaintiff’s objections have merit.
As to No.
113 (monies, loans and/or credits delivered to Chang by plaintiff), No. 114
(wages paid to Chang by plaintiff), plaintiff objected that the requests are
overly broad and/or irrelevant.  Defendant
has not shown good cause and plaintiff’s objections have merit.
As to No.
115 (all assets held by plaintiff), plaintiff responded that it will produce
documents of its ownership of the real property, which is the subject of this
action.  Plaintiff noted in its
opposition that it produced the grant deed in a supplemental production.
As to No.
116 (all assets contributed by 1st Reliant to plaintiff), No. 117
(all assets contributed by Chang to plaintiff), 118 (all communications between
Chang and any other person re plaintiff), 119 (all profit and loss statements
of plaintiff), and No. 120 (all profit and loss statements of 1st
Reliant), plaintiff objected that the requests are overly broad and/or
irrelevant and/or seek documents from third parties.  Defendant has not shown good cause.  Plaintiff’s objections have merit.
            The motion is thus GRANTED as to
Nos. 2-85, 89-90 (and provide privilege log), and 91-101 and DENIED as to Nos. 1,
86-88, 102-114, and 116-120 and MOOT as to No. 115.  Plaintiff is ordered to respond further
within 20 days.
Sanctions
Under CCP § 2023.030(a), “[t]he
court may impose a monetary sanction ordering that one engaging in the misuse
of the discovery process, or any attorney advising that conduct, or both pay
the reasonable expenses, including attorney’s fees, incurred by anyone as a
result of that conduct. . . . If a monetary sanction is authorized by any
provision of this title, the court shall impose that sanction unless it finds
that the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or
that other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.”  Under CCP § 2023.010, an example of the
misuse of the discovery process is “(d) Failing to respond or to submit to an
authorized method of discovery.” 
Sanctions are mandatory in
connection with motions to compel further responses against any party, person,
or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel unless the
court “finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial
justification or that other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction
unjust.”  CCP § §2030.300(d),
2031.310(h).
Cal. Rules of Court, Rule 3.1348(a)
states:  “The court may award sanctions
under the Discovery Act in favor of a party who files a motion to compel
discovery, even though no opposition to the motion was filed, or opposition to
the motion was withdrawn, or the requested discovery was provided to the moving
party after the motion was filed.” 
            Defendant
requests monetary sanctions against plaintiff and plaintiff’s attorney of
record, John Boyko in the amount of $5261 for each of the motions.  The court finds that sanctions are not
warranted because plaintiff acted with substantial justification. 
 
            Protective
Order
            Plaintiff requests a protective
order quashing or limiting special interrogatories and document requests
propounded by defendant Trang Luyen pursuant to CCP §§2030.060 and 2031.060. 
            Plaintiff
argues that the interrogatories and requests are defective and not related to
the subject matter of the instant action and thus are unwarranted, oppressive,
or an undue burden.  The court notes as
asserted in the motions to compel further responses, plaintiff served responses
to defendant’s written discovery.
                        Special
Interrogatories
            Plaintiff
argues that the interrogatories contain “impermissible prefatory instructions”
in violation of CCP §2030.060(d), which states: 
“Each interrogatory shall be full and complete in and of itself.  No preface or instruction shall be included
with a set of interrogatories unless it has been approved under Chapter 17
(commencing with Section 2033.710).” 
Plaintiff also argues that the interrogatories contain an overly broad
and burdensome definition of “You” or “Your”—“shall mean the responding party,
HL Group 2 Limited Partnership and YOUR agents, accountants, heirs,
representatives or anyone else authorized to act on YOUR behalf.”—in violation
of CCP §2030.010(a), which states, “Any party may obtain discovery . . . by
propounding to any other party to the action written interrogatories to be
answered under oath.”  Plaintiff further
argues that the interrogatories are not full and complete as required by CCP §2030.060(d).
            Plaintiff contends that Nos. 2-19
require plaintiff to refer to extraneous documents (i.e., the FAC, which,
plaintiff points out, has been rendered moot by the SAC).
            In
opposition, defendant argues that plaintiff’s motion is untimely as it was not
brought before the expiration of the 30-day period within which to respond,
citing to CCP §2030.290.  Defendant also
argues that plaintiff has not met its burden to establish good cause and did
not file a separate statement.  Defendant
contends that plaintiff’s arguments are not grounds for objections.  
            In
reply, plaintiff argues that the motion was brought timely as it was brought
“promptly.”  Plaintiff further argues
that its objections were not waived because the parties agreed to a ten-day
extension to August 22.
            The court finds that plaintiff has
not met its burden of showing good cause. 
Plaintiff’s objections lack merit, as described above.  See ruling on defendant’s motion to compel
further responses to special interrogatories.
                        Request
for Documents
            Plaintiff
argues the same as to the special interrogatories, that the definition of “You”
and “Your” are overly broad.  Further,
plaintiff argues that certain requests are not specifically or reasonably
particularized to inform plaintiff as to what documents are being sought, as
required by CCP §2031.030(c), which states that each demand shall designate the
documents 
by specifically describing each individual item or by reasonably
particularizing each category of item.” 
Also, plaintiff contends, Nos. 96-101 seek documents from Craig Chang,
but he is a non-party and the requests are overly broad as they are not limited
to a specific time frame or scope.  No.
102 seeks copy of Chang’s driver’s license, which plaintiff argues could not
possibly lead to the discovery of relevant admissible evidence.  Plaintiff further argues that certain
requests (Nos. 103, 104, 107-120) relate to the mischaracterization of the
nature of the action as a contract dispute between partners rather than one
based in tort.
            In
opposition, defendant makes the same arguments as with the special
interrogatories, that the motion is untimely and that plaintiff has not shown
good cause.  Defendant also argues as to
why certain requests seek relevant information.
            The court finds that plaintiff has
not met its burden of showing good cause for limiting or not responding at all
based on its arguments.  In light of the
ruling on defendant’s motion to compel further responses to special
interrogatories, the motion for a protective order is DENIED as to defendant’s
special interrogatories.  In light of the
ruling on the motion to compel further responses to request for production of
documents, the motion for a protective order is MOOT as to the request for production
documents.
                        Sanctions
            Plaintiff
requests $3318.91 against defense counsel. 
Defendant requests $4232.95 sanctions against plaintiff and its attorney
of record.  The court finds that
sanctions are not warranted against either party as both acted with substantial
justification.
            Moving
defendant is ordered to give notice of ruling.