 Case Number:  22TRCV00835    Hearing Date:   January 18, 2024    Dept:  B Hearing
Date:                          January 18, 2024
Moving Parties:                      Defendants Ashkan
Soleymani, DPM and Cedars Foot & Ankle Center
Responding Party:                  Plaintiff Stanley Matthews
Motion to Compel
Deposition of Plaintiff 
            The court considered the moving (and
joinder) and opposition papers.
RULING
The motion is DENIED WITHOUT
PREJUDICE.  Counsel are ordered to meet
and confer as to a mutually acceptable date and time.
BACKGROUND
            On September 16, 2022, plaintiff
Stanley Matthews filed a complaint against defendants Centinela Hospital
Medical Center Auxiliary, Cedars Foot & Ankle Center, and Ashkan Soleymani,
M.D. for (1) professional negligence/medical malpractice and (2) negligent
misrepresentation. 
On August
28, 2023, at the post-mediation status conference, the court ordered the
parties to meet and confer re deposition schedule and discovery.
On
October 31, 2023, at the post-mediation status conference, the court ordered
the parties to meet and confer regarding a discovery schedule, deposition
schedule, and mediation.
            Trial was continued from January 24,
2024 to September 18, 2024.
LEGAL AUTHORITY
CCP §2025.450(a) provides:  “If, after service of a deposition notice, a
party to the action or an officer, director, managing agent, or employee of a
party, . . , without having served a valid objection under Section 2025.410,
fails to appear for examination, or to proceed with it, or to produce for
inspection any document . . . described in the deposition notice, the party
giving the notice may move for an order compelling the deponent’s attendance
and testimony, and the production for inspection of any document . . .
described in the deposition notice.” 
CCP §2025.450(b) provides, “A
motion under subdivision (a) shall comply with both of the following:
(1)        The
motion shall set forth specific facts showing good cause justifying the
production for inspection of any document, electronically stored information,
or tangible thing described in the deposition notice.
(2)        The
motion shall be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration under Section
2016.040, or, when the deponent fails to attend the deposition and produce the
documents, electronically stored information, or things described in the
deposition notice, by a declaration stating that the petitioner has contacted
the deponent to inquire about the nonappearance.”
“Implicit in the requirement that
counsel contact the deponent to inquire about the nonappearance is a
requirement that counsel listen to the reasons offered and make a good faith
attempt to resolve the issue,” including by rescheduling.  Leko v. Cornerstone Bldg. Inspection Serv.
(2001) 86 Cal. App. 4th 1109, 1124.
DISCUSSION
            Defendants
Ashkan Soleymani, DPM and Cedars Foot & Ankle Center request that the court
compel plaintiff to appear for a deposition. 
Defendants assert that plaintiff’s deposition was initially scheduled
for June 13, 2023, then for August 14, 2023, and then for October 26,
2023.  Defendants contend that less than an
hour before the deposition on October 26, plaintiff’s counsel contacted defense
counsel indicating that plaintiff could not attend his deposition due to
physical conditions.  Defendant took a
certificate of non-appearance.
             In opposition, plaintiff contends that
plaintiff and his counsel were prepared to move forward with the deposition on
October 26 but due to an urgent medical issue that arose just prior to the
scheduled start time, plaintiff was forced to cancel his deposition as he was
not in the appropriate mental and physical shape to proceed with an hours-long
deposition and “for that reason, could not have given his best testimony even
had the deposition gone forward.” 
Plaintiff also argues that defendants filed the motion to compel (on
October 31) in violation of the court’s October 31, 2023 minute order ordering
the parties to meet and confer regarding deposition schedule as the court was
purportedly aware that plaintiff had not appeared for the October 26 deposition
because of “medical problems.”
            The
court finds that the deposition notice was properly served, and the date
selected was based upon the availability of plaintiff, but that plaintiff had a
valid reason for not appearing and had notified defense counsel beforehand,
albeit an hour before.  The court notes
that it twice ordered the parties to meet and confer as to the deposition
schedule, the last order dated after plaintiff did not appear for the October deposition.  It does not appear that counsel met and
conferred as the motion was filed on the same date as the October 31 order.
            THE
COURT INTENDS TO SET A DEPOSITION DATE AT THE HEARING OF THIS MOTION.
            Sanctions
If a motion to compel deposition is
granted, the court shall impose a monetary sanction in favor of the party who
noticed the deposition and against the deponent or the party with whom the
deponent is affiliated, unless the court finds that the one subject to the
sanction acted with substantial justification or that other circumstances make
the imposition of the sanction unjust. 
CCP §2025.450(g)(1).  
Under CCP §2023.030(a), “[t]he
court may impose a monetary sanction ordering that one engaging in the misuse
of the discovery process, or any attorney advising that conduct, or both pay
the reasonable expenses, including attorney’s fees, incurred by anyone as a
result of that conduct.  If a monetary
sanction is authorized by any provision of this title, the court shall impose
that sanction unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with
substantial justification or that other circumstances make the imposition of
the sanction unjust.”  Under CCP
§2023.010, an example of the misuse of the discovery process is “(d) Failing to
respond or to submit to an authorized method of discovery.” 
Defendants request sanctions
against plaintiff and plaintiff’s attorney of record in the amount of $630.  In light of the ruling on the motion, the
court declines to award sanctions.