 Case Number:  23TRCV01518    Hearing Date:   January 18, 2024    Dept:  B Hearing
Date:                          January 18, 2024
 
Moving Parties:                      Defendant
21007 Victor Owner, LLC
Responding Party:                  Plaintiffs Dominic Smith and Dominic
Smith Jr. 
(1)  
Demurrer to FAC
(2)  
Motion to Strike
 
            The court considered the moving,
opposition, and reply papers.
RULING
            The demurrer is OVERRULED as to the
3rd cause of action and SUSTAINED WITHOUT LEAVE TO AMEND as to the 11th
cause in the FAC.  The motion to strike
is ruled on as stated below.  Defendant
is ordered to file an answer within ten days.
BACKGROUND
On May 12, 2023, plaintiffs Dominic
Smith and Dominic Smith Jr. filed a complaint against 21007 Victor Owner LLC for
(1) violation of Civil Code §1942.4, (2) tortious breach of the warranty of
habitability, (3) private nuisance, (4) violation of Business and Professional Code
§17200, et seq., (5) negligence, (6) breach of covenant of quiet enjoyment, (7)
intentional infliction of emotional distress, (8) negligence per se, (9)
violation of Consumer Legal Remedies Act, Civil Code §1750, et seq., (10)
intentional influence to vacate, and (11) retaliatory eviction, Civil Code
§1942.5. 
On September 14, 2023, the court
sustained with leave to amend defendant’s demurrer to the 3rd and 11th
causes of action, sustained without leave to amend as to the 9th
cause of action, and overruled as to the 8th and 10th
causes of action.  The court deemed the
motion to strike moot as to the 3rd, 9th, and 11 causes
of action and granted it as to the 8th and 10th causes of
action.
On September 26, 2023, plaintiffs
filed a FAC for (1) violation of Civil Code §1942.4, (2) tortious breach of
warranty of habitability, (3) private nuisance, (4) Bus. and Prof. Code §17200,
(5) negligence, (6) breach of covenant of quiet enjoyment, (7) IIED, (8)
negligence per se, (9) see ruling on demurrer, (10) intentional influence to
vacate, and (11) retaliatory eviction, Civil Code §1942.5.
LEGAL AUTHORITY
Demurrer
When considering demurrers, courts
read the allegations liberally and in context. 
Taylor v. City of Los Angeles
Dept. of Water and Power (2006) 144 Cal. App. 4th 1216, 1228.  “A demurrer tests the pleadings alone and not
the evidence or other extrinsic matters. 
Therefore, it lies only where the defects appear on the face of the
pleading or are judicially noticed.”  SKF Farms v. Superior Court (1984) 153
Cal. App. 3d 902, 905.  “The only issue
involved in a demurrer hearing is whether the complaint, as it stands,
unconnected with extraneous matters, states a cause of action.”  Hahn v.
Mirda (2007) 147 Cal. App. 4th 740, 747.
Strike
“The court may, upon a motion . . .
, or at any time in its discretion, and upon terms it deems proper:  (a) Strike any irrelevant, false, or improper
matter inserted in any pleading.  (b)
Strike out all or any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity
with the laws of this state, a court rule, or an order of the court.”  CCP §436(b).
            CCP §431.10 states:  “(a) A material allegation in a pleading is
one essential to the claim or defense and which could not be stricken from the
pleading without leaving it insufficient as to that claim or defense.  
(b) An immaterial allegation in a
pleading is any of the following:  (1) An
allegation that is not essential to the statement of a claim or defense.  (2) An allegation that is neither pertinent
to nor supported by an otherwise sufficient claim or defense.  (3) A demand for judgment requesting relief
not supported by the allegations of the complaint or cross-complaint.  
(c) An ‘immaterial allegation’
means ‘irrelevant matter’ as that term is used in Section 436.”
The grounds for moving to strike
must appear on the face of the pleading or by way of judicial notice.  CCP §437.
DISCUSSION
Demurrer
Defendant 2107 Victor Owner LLC demurs
to the 3rd cause of action for private nuisance and 11th
cause of action for retaliatory eviction in the FAC on the grounds that they
fail to allege sufficient facts to constitute a cause of action and are
uncertain.
The court had previously given
plaintiffs leave to amend as to the above causes of action.
3rd Cause of Action for Private
Nuisance 
To establish an action for private
nuisance, (1) “the plaintiff must prove an interference with his use and
enjoyment of his property”; (2) “the invasion of the plaintiff’s interest in
the use and enjoyment of the land must be substantial, that is, that it causes
the plaintiff to suffer substantial actual damage”; (3) “the interference with
the protected interest must not only be substantial, but it must also be
unreasonable, i.e., it must be of such a nature, duration, or amount as to
constitute unreasonable interference with the use and enjoyment of the land.”  Mendez v. Rancho Valencia Resort Partners,
LLC (2016) 3 Cal. App. 5th 248, 262-263.  
The FAC alleges that the conditions
of the subject property constitute a private nuisance because the defective
conditions were injurious to the health and safety of the plaintiffs, indecent
and offensive to the plaintiffs, and interfered substantially with the
plaintiffs’ comfortable enjoyment of the subject property.  FAC, ¶104. 
Plaintiffs could not enjoy their home because it was severely infested
with cockroaches and other disgusting infestations.  Id., ¶105. 
Defendant’s failure to provide repairs, their refusal to comply with
complaints and/or government citations, and their lack of urgency in providing
repairs created conditions, such as cockroach infestation, termite infestation,
gnat infestation, mold contamination, dysfunctional plumbing systems resulting
in major floods, water shut-offs without notice, lack of hot water supply,
inoperable heater, lack of fire protection systems, insufficient ventilation,
and deficient security, which were injurious to plaintiffs’ health and safety.  Id., ¶106. 
Such nuisances are ongoing. 
Despite being required by law to abate these nuisances, defendants
failed or continue to fail to correct the conditions rendering the property a
nuisance.  Id., ¶107.  These conditions constituted substantial and
unreasonable interference with plaintiffs’ private use and enjoyment of their
tenancy.  Id., ¶110.
Defendant argues that this claim is
duplicative of the 5th cause of action for negligence because
plaintiff “uses the same allegations.”
In opposition, plaintiffs contend
that the 3rd and 5th causes of action are not
duplicative, and that the 5th cause of action is premised on
additional separate facts.  Plaintiffs
assert that the claim for private nuisance is based in the alleged conduct
pertaining to the presence of unlawful living conditions in the property and
defendant’s neglect in failing to provide repairs while the negligence claim is
based more broadly in defendant’s failure to meet their duty to exercise
reasonable care in the ownership, management, and control of the subject property.  
The court finds that the
allegations are sufficient to meet the elements for private nuisance as
plaintiffs allege conditions, which substantially interfere with plaintiff’s
use and enjoyment of the property.  The
cause of action is also based upon a separate legal theory than the cause of
action for negligence, and thus is not redundant.  In any event, the cause of action for
negligence is alleged more broadly and has different elements. 
The demurrer is OVERRULED. 
 
11th Cause of Action for
Retaliatory Eviction, Civil Code § 1942.5
Under Civil Code §1942.5, “(a) If
the lessor retaliates against the lessee because of the exercise by the lessee
of the lessee’s rights under this chapter or because of the lessee’s complaint
to an appropriate agency as to tenantability of a dwelling, and if the lessee
of a dwelling is not in default as to the payment of rent, the lessor may not
recover possession of a dwelling in any action or proceeding, cause the lessee
to quit involuntarily, increase the rent, or decrease any service within 180
days of any of the following: (1) After the date upon which the lessee, in good
faith, has given notice pursuant to Section 1942, has provided notice of a
suspected bed bug infestation, or has made an oral complaint to the lessor
regarding tenantability.
(2) After the date upon which the
lessee, in good faith, has filed a written complaint, or an oral complaint
which is registered or otherwise recorded in writing, with an appropriate
agency, of which the lessor has notice, for the purpose of obtaining correction
of a condition relating to tenantability.
(3) After the date of an inspection
or issuance of a citation, resulting from a complaint described in paragraph
(2) of which the lessor did not have notice. . . .”
Civil Code “[s]ection 1942.5 is a
remedial statute aimed at protecting tenants from certain types of abuses.  It is to be ‘liberally construed to effect its
objectives and to suppress, not encourage, the mischief at which it was
directed.’”  Barela v. Superior Court
(1981) 30 Cal.3d 244, 251 (citation omitted). 

The FAC alleges that plaintiffs exercised
their legal rights by making oral or written complaints to defendants regarding
habitability and the deplorable conditions of the premises.  FAC, ¶192. 
Plaintiffs reported uninhabitable housing conditions at the property to
defendants and requested that defendants make repairs.  In response, defendants engaged in retaliation
against plaintiffs, initiating a termination of tenancy against
plaintiffs.  Id., ¶193.  The cockroach infestation was so out of
control that they sought to seek government assistance from the City of
Torrance Code Enforcement to help in forcing defendant to provide pest control
services.  The moment that government
authorities contacted defendant about the complaint raised, defendant began
retaliatory efforts to evict plaintiff, including by attempting to issue proxy
eviction notices and illegal and unjustified UD documents.  Defendants stopped collecting the rent from
plaintiffs.  Id., ¶194.  Plaintiffs would make repeated complaints
each time the hot water would go out and defendant failed to provide any
repairs until the government citation from the City of Torrance Community
Development Department on November 3, 2022 forced defendants to replace the hot
water heater.  Id., ¶199.  Within 180 days from the date of government
involvement, defendant unlawfully attempted to evict plaintiffs.  Id., ¶200.
The court notes that in its ruling
on the demurrer to the complaint, the court stated that plaintiffs had failed
to state on what dates they gave notice to defendant about the condition of the
premises and subsequently on which date within the 180-day period defendant
filed the unlawful detainer.  
Defendant argues that plaintiffs still
have failed to plead the date when defendant took action to evict plaintiffs
and that the new allegation is contrary to the original complaint that alleged that
the unlawful detainer was dismissed after plaintiffs contacted the City of
Torrance Community Development Department, and not after.  Further, defendant contends, plaintiffs have
not alleged eviction.
In opposition, plaintiffs contend
that they added an allegation at para. 200 that they further attest that within
180 days from the date of government involvement, defendant unlawfully
attempted to evict plaintiffs.  They
assert that they do not know the exact date in which the unlawful detainer was
initiated and that such date can be uncovered through discovery.  
            The court finds that the allegations
are insufficient in that the allegations do not show retaliation, i.e., that
defendant recovered possession, or that plaintiffs quit involuntarily, or that
the rent was increased, or a decrease in service.  The allegations also do not sufficiently
allege the date that triggered the 180 day period and when the unlawful
detainer was initiated, despite being given an opportunity to do so.  
            The demurrer is SUSTAINED WITHOUT
LEAVE TO AMEND. 
 
Motion to Strike
Defendant requests that the court
strike allegations as to punitive and exemplary damages at paras. 45, 76, 97,
116, 135, 144, 171, 188, 204, and 205, and prayer at nos. 2 (general), 4
(punitive damages), 6 (statutory punitive damages under Civil Code §1942.5), 7
($2000 in punitive damages under Civil Code §1942.5), and 11 (exemplary and
punitive).
Civil Code §3294 authorizes the
recovery of punitive damages in non-contract cases where “the defendant has
been guilty of oppression, fraud, or malice . . . .”  The Court in Taylor v. Superior Court
(1979) 24 Cal.3d 890, 894-95, found that “[s]omething more than the mere
commission of a tort is always required for punitive damages.  There must be circumstances of aggravation or
outrage, such as spite or ‘malice,’ or a fraudulent or evil motive on the part
of the defendant, or such a conscious and deliberate disregard of the interests
of others that his conduct may be called willful or wanton.” 
“’Malice’ means conduct which is
intended by the defendant to cause injury to the plaintiff or despicable
conduct which is carried on by the defendant with a willful and conscious
disregard of the rights or safety of others.” 
Civil Code §3294(c)(1).   
As the Court noted in College
Hospital v. Superior Court (1994) 8 Cal.4th 704, 713, Section 3294 was
amended in 1987 to require that, where malice is based on a defendant’s
conscious disregard of a plaintiff’s rights, the conduct must be both
despicable and willful.  The Court in
College Hospital held further that “despicable conduct refers to circumstances
that are base, vile, or contemptible.”  Id.
at 725 (citation omitted).
Defendant argues that the
allegations are insufficient to support a claim for punitive damages.
In opposition, plaintiffs argue
that they have alleged sufficiently a claim for punitive damages.
The court finds that the
allegations are sufficient to support a claim for punitive damages.  A tenant may state a cause of action in tort
against his landlord for damages resulting from a breach of the implied
warranty of habitability.”  Stoiber v.
Honeychuck (1980) 101 Cal. App. 3d 903, 918-19; see also Smith v. David
(1981) 120 Cal. App. 3d 101, 112 n.3 (a tenant “may seek general and punitive
damages for . . . breach of warranty [of habitability]”).  The court in Stoiber found that
plaintiff stated sufficient facts to support exemplary damages when she “alleged
that defendant had actual knowledge of defective conditions in the premises
including leaking sewage, deteriorated flooring, falling ceiling, leaking roof,
broken windows, and other unsafe and dangerous conditions . . . [and] alleged
defendants ‘In maintaining said nuisance, . . . acted with full knowledge of
the consequences thereof and the damage being caused to plaintiff, and their
conduct was willful, oppressive and malicious.’”  Stoiber, supra, at 920 (citation
omitted). 
Plaintiffs have alleged breach of
habitability and nuisance.  The
allegations support malice in that defendant had actual knowledge of the
defective conditions, defendant failed to act, defendant maintained the
defective conditions, and defendant acted with full knowledge of the
consequences and the damage (health and safety) being caused to plaintiffs.  
As to the allegations and prayer as
to the cause of action for retaliatory eviction, the allegations are
insufficient in light of the ruling on the demurrer.
The motion is DENIED as to paras.
45, 76, 97, 116, 135, 144, and 188, and prayer at nos. 2, 4, and 11.  The motion is GRANTED WITHOUT LEAVE TO AMEND
as to paras. 204 and 205 under the 11th cause of action and prayer
at 6. and 7.  The motion is MOOT as to
para. 171 (under the 9th cause of action) as the court had
previously sustained without leave to amend the demurrer as to the 9th
cause of action.
Plaintiffs are ordered to give
notice of ruling.