 Case Number:  23STCV24697    Hearing Date:   September 24, 2024    Dept:  27 Hon. Lee S. Arian, Dept 27¿ 
¿ 
MOTION TO QUASH SUBPOENA AND REQUESTS FOR
SANCTIONS 
Hearing Date: 9/24/24¿¿ 
CASE NO./NAME: 23STCV24697 TIFFANY BANK vs
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES¿ 
Moving Party: Plaintiff 
Responding Party: Defendant City of Los Angeles¿ 
Notice: Sufficient¿¿ 
Ruling: MOTION TO QUASH SUBPOENA IS GRANTED IN
PART; 
REQUEST FOR SANCTIONS IS DENIED 
 
Background
 
On October 10, 2023, Plaintiff filed the
present slip and fall case against Defendants, including Defendant City of Los
Angeles. Plaintiff alleges that she was injured when she tripped over an uneven
sidewalk located near 670 S. Dunsmuir Ave, Los Angeles, CA 90036. In response
to Form Interrogatory No. 6.2, which asks Plaintiff to identify each injury
Plaintiff attributes to the subject incident and the area of her body affected,
Plaintiff stated: "back pain, ankle pain, knee pain, body soreness, increased
anxiety, insomnia, and depression." 
 
On May 30, 2024, Defendant served a subpoena
for Plaintiff’s insurance, medical and billing records from Kaiser Foundation
Health Plan, Inc. Plaintiff alleges that the subpoena is not limited in time or
scope, as it seeks “ANY AND ALL INSURANCE RECORDS,
MEDICAL RECORDS, CORRESPONDENCE, PAYMENTS, CLAIMS, AND ANY OTHER DOCUMENTS
CONTAINED WITHIN THE INSURANCE FILE, EXCLUDING ALL PRIVILEGED AND CONFIDENTIAL
INFORMATION, PERTAINING TO THE APPLICANT.”
 
Plaintiff now moves the Court to limit the
subpoena for medical records to treatments of only those body parts and medical
conditions that Plaintiff put at issue and from ten (10) years prior to the
date of the subject incident to the present. Plaintiff also requests that the
subpoena be limited to include only records from the date of the subject
incident to the present.
 
Legal Standard
 
CCP section 1987.1 states that “[i]f a
subpoena requires the attendance of a witness or the production of books, documents,
electronically stored information, or other things before a court, or at the
trial of an issue therein, or at the taking of a deposition, the court, upon
motion reasonably made by any person described in subdivision (b), or upon the
court’s own motion after giving counsel notice and an opportunity to be heard,
may make an order quashing the subpoena entirely, modifying it, or directing
compliance with it upon those terms or conditions as the court shall declare,
including protective orders.”¿ (Code
Civ. Proc., § 1987.1(a).)¿ “In addition, the court may make any other
order as may be appropriate to protect the person from unreasonable or
oppressive demands, including unreasonable violations of the right of privacy
of the person.”¿ (Id.)¿ Subdivision (b) provides that a party may make a motion pursuant
to subdivision (a).¿ (Id.,
§ 1987.1(b).)
 
¿As a general rule, all unprivileged information that is relevant to
the subject matter of the action is discoverable if it would itself be
admissible evidence at trial or if it appears reasonably calculated to lead to
the discovery of admissible evidence. (Code Civ. Proc. § 2017.010; Schnabel
v. Superior Court. (1993) 5 Cal.4th 704, 711.) When the information sought
to be discovered impacts a person’s constitutional right to privacy, limited
protections come into play for that person. (Shaffer v. Superior Court
(1995) 33 Cal.App.4th 993, 999.) The protections cover both a person’s personal
and financial matters. (Id.) The court must balance competing rights —
the right of a litigant to discover relevant facts and the right of an
individual to maintain reasonable privacy — in determining whether the
information is discoverable. (Id.)
 
A motion to quash a subpoena for personal
records, including medical records, must be accompanied by a declaration
showing a “reasonable and good faith attempt at informal resolution of the
dispute” between the party requesting the records and the “consumer” or
“employee” whose records are involved or counsel for such person.¿ (C.C.P. §§1985.3(g), 1985.6(f)(4).)¿¿¿The Court finds that Plaintiff has satisfied the meet and confer
requirement.
 
Scope of the Subpoena
 
¿           In Valley Bank of Nevada v. Superior Court (1975) 15 Cal.3d
652, the California Supreme Court found that the following should be considered
by the trial court in balancing the interests between the right of civil
litigants to discover relevant facts and the right of bank customers to
maintain reasonable privacy regarding their financial affairs: “. . . the
purpose of the information sought, the effect that disclosure will have on the
parties and on the trial, the nature of the objections urged by the party resisting
disclosure, and ability of the court to make an alternative order which may
grant partial disclosure, disclosure in another form, or disclosure only in the
event that the party seeking the information undertakes certain specified
burdens which appear just under the circumstances.” (Id. at 658.)
 
¿           Although relevance is typically construed liberally (see Pacific
Tel. & Tel. Co. v. Superior Court (1970) 2 Cal.3d 161, 169), the
standard is more stringent when a party is attempting to discover documents
which are constitutionally protected by the right to privacy:
 
¿[E]ven when discovery of private information is found directly
relevant to the issues of ongoing litigation, it will not be automatically
allowed; there must then be a careful balancing of the compelling public need
for discovery against the fundamental right of privacy.¿ . . . [I]f an intrusion on the right of privacy is deemed
necessary under the circumstances of a particular case, any such intrusion
should be the minimum intrusion necessary to achieve its objective . . .
[meaning] the least intrusive means to satisfy the interest. Mere convenience
of means or cost will not satisfy that test for that would make expediency and
not the compelling interest the overriding value.¿ (Lantz v. Superior Court (1994) 28 Cal.App.4th 1839,
1854-1855 [internal quotes and citations omitted].)
 
¿This is true even where the party asserting the right to privacy is
the party who brought the suit.¿ (See
Vinson v. Superior Court (1987) 43 Cal.3d 833, 842 [“While the filing of a
lawsuit may implicitly bring about a partial waiver of one’s constitutional
right of associational privacy, the scope of such waiver must be narrowly
rather than expansively construed, so that plaintiffs will not be unduly
deterred from instituting lawsuits . . . . [A]n implicit waiver of a party’s
constitutional rights encompasses only discovery directly relevant to the
plaintiff’s claim and essential to the fair resolution of the lawsuit.”].)¿¿The burden is on the party seeking the
constitutionally protected information to establish direct relevance.¿ (Harris v. Superior Court (1992) 3 Cal.App.4th 661, 665.)
 
Discussion
 
In balancing Defendant’s interest in having
access to relevant documents to formulate its defense against Plaintiff’s
privacy interests in protecting her medical and financial privacy, the Court
finds "direct relevance" to mean documents, either financial or
medical, that relate to treatments of the body parts and conditions at issue.
In this case, these are treatments for Plaintiff’s back, ankle, and knee, as
well as conditions such as body soreness, increased anxiety, insomnia, and
depression. Defendant, in the opposition, does not allege that there are
additional body parts at issue.
 
The Court does not find unfettered access to
all of Plaintiff’s medical history to be directly relevant and, in cases such
as this one, typically limits access to medical documents to a period of 10
years from the date of the incident to the present. The court finds 10 years to
provide a good balance between protecting Plaintiff’s privacy interest while
still providing Defendant with ample information to prepare its defense. 
 
The Court finds billing records relating to
the treatment to be directly relevant to assess the nature and quality of
treatment that Plaintiff has received related to the body parts at issue, the
progress of any condition affecting the specified body parts, and to identify
any unusual increases in medical expenses post-incident. These records are
relevant for determining the legitimacy and extent of Plaintiff’s claimed
damages. 
Similarly, correspondence in the insurance
file can shed light on the extent of Plaintiff’s prior injuries and its
potential effect on the present injuries of the same body parts, as well as the
progression of Plaintiff's medical condition over time.
 
Thus, the Court grants the present motion in
part and limits the subpoena as follows: 
 
·       
Medical and insurance records are limited to records reflecting or
relating to treatments for back pain, ankle pain, knee pain, body soreness,
anxiety, insomnia, and depression from ten (10) years prior to the date of the
subject incident to the present.
 
·       
Billing records are limited to records from the time of the
incident and to bills for treatments for back pain, ankle pain, knee pain, body
soreness, anxiety, insomnia, and depression  
 
The Court declines to issue sanctions under
the circumstances, as it granted Plaintiff’s motion only in part, and the
parties had a legitimate dispute regarding the scope of the subpoena. The Court
finds that both parties have acted with substantial justification.
 
PLEASE TAKE NOTICE: 
 
If a party intends to submit on
this tentative ruling,¿the party must send an email to the court at¿sscdept27@lacourt.org¿with the Subject line “SUBMIT”
followed by the case number.¿ The body of the email must include the hearing date
and time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the party
submitting. 
 
Unless¿all¿parties submit by email to this
tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or
in person for oral argument.¿ You should assume that others may appear at the
hearing to argue. 
 