 Case Number:  23STCV23614    Hearing Date:   September 24, 2024    Dept:  27 Hon. Lee
S. Arian, Dept 27 
 
MOTION FOR PROTECTIVE ORDER 
Hearing Date: 9/24/24¿ 
CASE NO./NAME: 23STCV23614 JOHN MERRIETT vs UBER TECHNOLOGIES,
INC., et al.
Moving Party: Defendant Uber Technologies
Responding Party: Plaintiff¿ 
Notice: Sufficient¿ 
Ruling: MOTION FOR PROTECTIVE ORDER IS GRANTED IN PART
 
Background
On May 23, 2024, the
Court denied Defendant Uber's motion for a protective order as to its trade
secrets without prejudice. The Court noted the absence of a proposed draft
order for its review and potential adoption. The denial also stemmed from the
motion's overly broad scope, seeking a blanket protective order for all
"documents, testimony, or information." Further, the motion was
deficient due to the absence of a meet and confer between the parties before
the hearing.
After the last motion
hearing, the parties conducted a meet and confer via email and phone regarding
the protective order. Despite these efforts, they failed to resolve the
discovery issue concerning the protective order at issue.
Legal Standard
“When an inspection,
copying, testing, or sampling of documents, tangible things, places, or
electronically stored information has been demanded, the party to whom the
demand has been directed, and any other party or affected person, may promptly
move for a protective order.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.060, subd. (a).) “The
Court, for good cause shown, may make any order that justice requires to
protect any party or other person from unwarranted annoyance, embarrassment, or
oppression, or undue burden and expense.” A protective order may direct “[t]hat
the inspection, copying, testing, or sampling be made only on specified terms
and conditions [or] [t]hat a trade secret or other confidential research,
development, or commercial information not be disclosed, or be disclosed only
to specified persons or only in a specified way.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.060,
subds. (b)(4)-(5).)
Per Civil Code section
3426.1, “Trade secret means information, including a formula, pattern,
compilation, program, device, method, technique, or process, that: (1) derives
independent economic value, actual or potential, from not being generally known
to the public or to other persons who can obtain economic value from its
disclosure or use; and (2) is the subject of efforts that are reasonable under
the circumstances to maintain its secrecy.” (Civ. Code, § 3426.1.)
Discussion
Defendant contends that
the information or documents Plaintiff seeks pertain to Uber's relationships
with its third-party drivers and the utilization of Uber’s software application
by these drivers. Uber contends this information is trade secrets because Uber
operates in a highly competitive environment where its business methodologies,
such as the management of relationships with third-party transportation
providers using Uber's Driver App. are of significant interest to its
competitors. (Sauerwein Decl. ¶ 11.) The company gains economic value from the
confidentiality of this information, which is neither generally known nor
readily ascertainable by legitimate means. Disclosure of this commercially
sensitive information would enable Uber’s competitors to enhance or develop
their own applications, products, services, and operations, thus negating
Uber's substantial financial investments in these domains. (Sauerwein Decl. ¶
12.) Furthermore, all newly hired employees are required to sign a Confidential
Information and Invention Assignment Agreement to safeguard Uber’s trade
secrets as a condition of their employment. (Sauerwein Decl. ¶ 13.) Further, third-party
companies must sign a Non-Disclosure Agreement before initiating business
discussions with Uber. (Sauerwein Decl. ¶ 14.)
Uber has demonstrated
that: (1) it derives economic value from keeping its interactions with
third-party independent contractors and the usage of its apps by drivers
confidential and (2) it undertakes reasonable efforts to maintain this secrecy.
Uber has identified
several discovery requests it contends would reveal potential trade secrets:

Request
     for Production of Documents No. 34: Produce any and
     all documents in your possession, custody, or control that relate to,
     refer to, or mention your driver’s work schedule (specifically, the time
     of day your driver began work and the time they concluded each day) for
     the week prior to and including the day of the incident.
Request
     for Production of Documents No. 36: Produce any and
     all documents that reflect your driver’s ratings, reviews, complaints,
     routes, etc.
Request
     for Production of Documents No. 84: All documents
     provided by you to drivers in California that relate to, refer to,
     reflect, memorialize, evidence, or otherwise reference how drivers use the
     app.

Additionally, Plaintiff
has made further requests for the production of documents pertaining to the
noticed deposition of Uber’s person most qualified (PMQ) that might implicate
trade secrets, as follows:

Request
     No. 5 To PMQ: The activities of Defendant
     Vincent Mack Jr. ("Vincent") behind the wheel, during a ride, at
     rest (or while waiting for a ride, or otherwise offline), including each
     and every location Vincent started, stopped, the exact times of these
     events, the routes taken, and distances traveled between each location for
     the twenty-four-hour period prior to the occurrence of the incident.
Request
     No. 8 To PMQ: The nature of the relationship
     between Uber and Vincent, including but not limited to any employment
     agreements, transportation services agreements, payment agreements,
     contracts, financial responsibility for vehicle accidents such as the
     subject incident, as defined under Assembly Bill 5 in California.

The Court finds that
Uber has demonstrated how documents relating to its relationship with
independent contractors and how its drivers use the app can be considered trade
secrets and how Plaintiff’s discovery requests would necessitate the disclosure
of such information. While Plaintiff contends that the information sought
merely relates to a straightforward motor vehicle crash, including the release
of the event data recorder in the subject vehicle and Defendant’s work
schedule, the Court is not entirely convinced that the whole of Plaintiff’s
discovery requests is disconnected from Uber’s trade secrets. Upon review of
the discovery responses provided by Plaintiff, it becomes evident that several
specific requests indeed relate to trade secrets, including:

Request
     for Production of Documents No. 84: All documents
     provided by you to drivers in California that relate to, refer to,
     reflect, memorialize, evidence, or otherwise reference how drivers use the
     app.
Request
     No. 8 To PMQ: The nature of the relationship
     between Uber and Vincent, including but not limited to any employment
     agreements, transportation services agreements, payment agreements,
     contracts, financial responsibility for vehicle accidents such as the
     subject incident, as defined under Assembly Bill 5 in California.

Plaintiff then
challenges the confidentiality of the alleged trade secrets, arguing that the
alleged information is open to nearly any American adult with a clean driving
record. However, the Court recognizes that Uber has taken reasonable steps to
protect this information, notably through requiring both employees and
independent contractors to sign confidentiality or non-disclosure agreements
(Sauerwein Decl. ¶¶ 11-14). Plaintiff has not presented any evidence to the
contrary.
Based on the foregoing,
the Court agrees with Uber that a protective order is appropriate in this
case.  However, the proposed protective
order submitted as Exhibit D appears similar to the one previously deemed
overly broad by the court in its May 23, 2024 minute order. The definition of
"Confidential" in the order covers any information in the possession
of a Designating Party who believes in good faith that such information warrants
confidential treatment under applicable law. "Confidential Materials"
are defined as any Documents, Testimony, or Information designated as
"Confidential" pursuant to this Stipulation and Protective Order,
thereby effectively allowing any document, testimony, or information to be
deemed confidential based on the defendant's good faith belief. This definition
significantly exceeds the justification provided in the moving papers, which is
limited to the relationship between Uber and its independent contractors and
how its applications are used by the drivers. The Court has previously denied
Uber’s request for a blanket protective order and sees no reason to deviate
from its previous ruling.
Therefore, the court
finds it appropriate to modify the scope of the protective order to cover only
the relationship between Uber and its third-party drivers, as well as how
Uber’s third-party drivers are able to access and use Uber’s software
application.  Uber is directed to submit
a protective order for the Court’s signature consistent with this allowed protection.
Although Uber raises
the issue of privacy regarding information about Defendant Mack, the arguments
and evidence presented do not address this issue.  To the extent Defendant Mack and Defendant
Uber believe a protective order is necessary for information related to Defendant
Mack, they can seek to stipulate to such order, or, if such stipulation cannot
be reached, either party can seek protection from the Court, with appropriate explanation
why such information needs to be protected. 
At this time, however, the Court declines to impose a protective order
concerning Defendatn Vincent’s alleged private information.
PLEASE TAKE NOTICE:
 
If a party intends to submit on
this tentative ruling, the party must send an email to
the court at sscdept27@lacourt.org with the
Subject line “SUBMIT” followed by the case number.  The body of
the email must include the hearing date and time, counsel’s contact
information, and the identity of the party submitting.
 
Unless all parties
submit by email to this tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear
remotely (encouraged) or in person for oral argument.  You should
assume that others may appear at the hearing to argue.
 
If the parties neither submit nor
appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  After the
Court has issued a tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of
the subject motion without leave.
 