 Case Number:  20STCV41794    Hearing Date:   September 24, 2024    Dept:  27 Hon. Lee
S. Arian, Dept 27 
 
MOTION TO CONTINUE TRIAL
Hearing Date: 9/24/24¿ 
CASE NO./NAME: 20STCV41794 DEEANNA LINSMAIER vs WAIL BUSHARA, et
al.
Moving Party: Plaintiff
Responding Party: Defendant Wail Bushara
Notice: Sufficient¿ 
Ruling: The Court Will Discuss Scheduling with the Parties
 
On November 2, 2020,
Plaintiff filed the present case, alleging she was injured while a passenger in
a car operated by Defendant Bushara. The car driven by Bushara was sideswiped
by another vehicle operated by the now-deceased Matthew Muldoon. On July 11,
2024, the Court denied Plaintiff’s motion for summary adjudication regarding
Defendant Bushara's third-party contributory negligence affirmative defense. On
August 30, 2024, Plaintiff filed another motion for summary adjudication as to various
elements of her causes of action against Defendant Bushara. The MSA is
scheduled for May 14, 2025, and the current trial date is set for January 30,
2025. Plaintiff requests the court to continue the trial date so her new motion
for summary adjudication can be heard.
Defendant filed an
opposition arguing that Plaintiff's previous MSA concerning contributory
negligence, which was denied, should bar Plaintiff's new MSA regarding
liability. This argument is grounded in California Code of Civil Procedure
Section 437c(f)(2), which states: “A party shall not move for summary judgment
based on issues asserted in a prior motion for summary adjudication and denied
by the court unless that party establishes, to the satisfaction of the court,
newly discovered facts or circumstances or a change of law supporting the
issues reasserted in the summary judgment motion.” Defendant argues that
Plaintiff has not introduced any newly discovered facts or changes in law to
justify revisiting the issues.
Plaintiff’s newly filed
motion for summary adjudication seeks adjudication on several elements of
Plaintiff’s first cause of action for vehicular negligence and second cause of
action for general negligence, including the existence of duty, breach of duty,
causation, and damages. Although the court had previously dismissed Plaintiff’s
motion regarding Defendant’s defense of contributory negligence, the current
motion, which focuses on the elements of Plaintiff’s claims, is separate and
distinct from the earlier issue of contributory negligence defense.  For example, even if Defendant is found
liable for negligence, he may still invoke the defense of comparative
negligence to lessen the damages awarded. Moreover, the MSA pertains to the
various elements of negligence. The defense of comparative negligence is not
relevant to the court’s adjudication of these elements, such as whether
Defendant owed a duty to Plaintiff.
While it is true that
part of Plaintiff's new MSA deals with the calculation of damages, and
Plaintiff might be precluded from filing such a motion without a stipulation
and court order under CCP §437c(t), this issue relating to damages is only one
of the several issues to be adjudicated in the MSA. 
Defendant has not
provided any legal authority for the court to deny a continuance based on these
two grounds: CCP 437c(f)(2) and CCP §437c(t).
On the other hand, numerous
courts of appeal have held that a trial court cannot refuse to consider a
motion for summary judgment that is timely filed "A trial court may not
refuse to hear a summary judgment filed within the time limits of [Code of
Civil Procedure] section 437c. [Citation.] Local rules and practices may not be
applied so as to prevent the filing and hearing of such a motion." (Sentry
Ins. Co. v. Superior Court (1989) 207 Cal.App.3d 526, 529); accord First
State Inc. Co. v. Superior Court (2000) 79 Cal.App.4th 324, 330
[invalidating case management order to the extent it precluded filing motions
pursuant to section 437c ]; Wells Fargo Bank v. Superior Court (1988)
206 Cal.App.3d 918, 923 [local court rule that "require a party filing a
complex summary judgment motion to file the motion six months before the date
set for trial is void and unenforceable because it is inconsistent with section
437c"].). 
The MSA was filed on
August 30, 2024, and the trial date is set for January 30, 2025. The MSA was
filed more than 107 days before the trial, and therefore the motion is timely.
(Cole v. Superior Court (2022) 87 Cal.App.5th 84, 88.)
Defendant argues that
the motion to continue trial was not timely filed, as it was served 16 rather
than 18 court days prior to trial as required for electronic service. However,
a party's appearance at the hearing of a motion and opposition to the motion on
its merits constitutes a waiver of any defects or irregularities in the notice
of motion. (Carlton v. Quint (2000) 77 Cal.App.4th 690, 697.) Here,
Defendant contested the motion on its merits and therefore has waived any
notice defects. Furthermore, the court finds it a waste of judicial resource to
deny this motion without prejudice for Plaintiff just to bring the same motion
back in 18 court days.
While Plaintiff’s MSJ
should be heard prior to trial, the Court has the ability to control its own
calendar and, as it turns out, the Court may be able to set a date for the MSJ
that does not require a change in the trial date.  Accordingly, the Court will discuss
scheduling with the parties.  