 Case Number:  22STCV31283    Hearing Date:   September 24, 2024    Dept:  27 Hon.
Lee S. Arian, Dept 27  
  
MOTION
TO COMPEL INITIAL RESPONSES AND REQUESTS FOR SANCTIONS 
Hearing
Date: 9/23/24   
CASE
NO./NAME: 22STCV31283 MANDEEP GILL, et al. vs MANUEL GALLARDO, et al.  
Moving
Party: Plaintiffs 
Responding
Party: Unopposed   
Notice:
Sufficient   
Ruling:
MOTION TO COMPEL INITIAL RESPONSES AND REQUESTS FOR SANCTIONS ARE GRANTED. 
 
On
May 10, 2024, Plaintiffs Mandeep Gill, Sangram Gill, and Dilraj Gill propounded
their first set of discovery requests to Defendant Scott Equipment Inc. This
discovery included Requests for Production of Documents, Set One, Requests for
Admissions, Set One, Form Interrogatories, Set One, and Special
Interrogatories, Set One. The responses to these discovery requests were due by
June 11, 2024.
 
On
June 11, 2024, Defendant failed to provide any responses to the discovery
requests and did not request or receive an extension for the deadline to
provide the responses at issue. On July 11, 2024, Plaintiffs filed the present
motions to compel and deem the contents of their requests for admission
admitted.  No oppositions to these motions were filed. 
 
On September 23, 2024, during a
hearing for Plaintiffs' motion to compel initial responses from Defendant
Western Rental, defense counsel represented to the Court that both Defendants,
Western Rental and Scott Equipment, have served responses to Plaintiffs'
Requests for Admissions. This was confirmed by Plaintiffs' counsel. Based on
this representation, the Court denies Plaintiffs' motion to deem the contents
of their Requests for Admissions, Set One, admitted.
 
 
With
regard to the other discovery, it is undisputed that Defendant failed to
provide the discovery responses at issue prior to the statutory deadline.
Defendant did not file an opposition or any other document indicating that
responses were filed prior to the hearing date. The Court thus grants the motions
to compel. Defendant Scott Equipment Inc. is ordered to provide complete and
verified responses to Plaintiffs’ Request for Production, Set One, Special
Interrogatories, Set One, and Form Interrogatories, Set One, without objections
within 20 days of today. 
 
Sanctions
are mandatory in discovery motions unless a party is substantially justified in
its position; the Court finds Defendant did not act with substantial
justification. Plaintiffs request sanctions in the amount of $1500 per motion.
Given the simplicity and duplicity of the issues and the lack of opposition,
the Court reduces sanctions to $1500 for all the motions to be heard today.
Defendant and its attorney are jointly and severally liable for sanctions in
the amount of $1500, payable to Plaintiffs within 20 days of today. 
 
PLEASE TAKE NOTICE: 
 
If a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the court at sscdept27@lacourt.org with the Subject line “SUBMIT” followed
by the case number.  The body of the email must include the hearing date
and time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the party
submitting. 
 
Unless all parties submit by email
to this tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely
(encouraged) or in person for oral argument.  You should assume that
others may appear at the hearing to argue. 
 
If the parties neither submit nor appear at
hearing, the Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the tentative
ruling as the order of the Court.  After the Court has issued a tentative
ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion without
leave. 
 
 