 Case Number:  20STCV40507    Hearing Date:   March 5, 2024    Dept:  74 Oscar
Andrade, et al. v. Viridi Construction, Inc., et al.
Motion to Enforce Settlement.
The
court considered the moving papers. No opposition was timely filed. (Code Civ.
Proc., § 1005 [“All papers opposing a motion […] shall be filed with the court
and a copy served on each party at least nine court days […] before the
hearing.”].) 
BACKGROUND
            This action arises from a
contractual dispute.
            On
October 21, 2020, Plaintiffs Oscar Andrade and Ma Del Refugio Guillen Llamas
(Plaintiffs) filed a complaint against Defendants Viridi Construction, Inc. and
Javier Suarez (Defendants). The complaint alleged breach of contract, negligent
misrepresentation, and negligent infliction of emotional distress.
            On
October 21, 2022, Plaintiffs filed a notice of settlement.
            On
October 31, 2022, Defendants were dismissed.
            On
January 11, 2024, Plaintiffs filed this motion to enforce the settlement.
LEGAL STANDARD
            “If parties to pending litigation
stipulate, in a writing signed by the parties outside the presence of the court
or orally before the court, for settlement of the case, or part thereof, the
court, upon motion, may enter judgment pursuant to the terms of the settlement.
If requested by the parties, the court may retain jurisdiction over the parties
to enforce the settlement until performance in full of the terms of the
settlement.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 664.6.) 
DISCUSSION
            In their motion, Plaintiffs contend
Defendants have not complied with the terms of the settlement. (Sanzo Decl., ¶
3.) Moreover, Plaintiffs have provided a copy of the settlement, under which the
court retains jurisdiction to enforce the agreement. (Sanzo Decl.; Ex. A, §
15.) But the attached agreement does not include Defendants’ signatures. (Sanzo
Decl.; Ex. A.) Consequently, Plaintiffs have not demonstrated that Defendants
entered the settlement agreement in the first place.
CONCLUSION 
The
court denies Plaintiffs’ motion.
Plaintiffs
are ordered to give notice.