  Case Number:  20STCV09612    Hearing Date:   March 5, 2024    Dept:  74 Glenn
Feldman, et al. v. Fraser Ross, et al.
Plaintiff’s Motion to Compel
Deposition of Defendant Fraser Ross and Request for Monetary Sanctions
 
The
court considered the moving papers, opposition, and reply.
BACKGROUND 
            This
action arises from a contractual dispute.
            On
March 9, 2020, Plaintiff Glenn Feldman (Plaintiff) filed a complaint against
Defendant Fraser Ross (Defendant) and Kitross Apparel Los Angeles. In the
complaint, Plaintiff alleges the following causes of action: intentional
misrepresentation, negligent misrepresentation, breach of fiduciary duty,
breach of implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing, constructive trust,
accounting, and fraudulent conversion.
            On
February 2, 2022, Plaintiff served a deposition notice for Defendant. Defendant
served objections and the deposition did not take place.
            On
December 16, 2022, Plaintiff served another deposition notice for Defendant.
Defendant served objections and the deposition did not take place.
            On
March 3, 2023, Plaintiff served another deposition notice for Defendant.
Defendant served objections and the deposition did not take place.
            On
July 17, 2023, Plaintiff served another deposition notice for Defendant. The
deposition was set for August 16, 2023. On August 11, 2023, Defendant served
objections to the notice and the deposition did not take place.
            On
January 24, 2024, Plaintiff filed this motion to compel Defendant’s appearance
at deposition and production of documents.
LEGAL STANDARD
            “The
service of a deposition notice . . . is effective to require any deponent who
is a party to the action or an officer, director, managing agent, or employee
of a party to attend and to testify, as well as produce any document,
electronically stored information, or tangible thing for inspection and
copying.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.280, subd. (a).) “If, after service of a
deposition notice, a party to the action . . . without having served a valid
objection . . . fails to appear for examination, or to proceed with it, the
party giving notice may move for an order compelling the deponent’s attendance
and testimony, and the production for inspection of any document,
electronically stored information, or tangible thing described in the
deposition notice.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.450, subd. (a).) 
DISCUSSION
            Plaintiff seeks to compel
Defendant’s appearance at deposition and production of documents responsive to
Requests for Production Nos. 1-177. The court finds Plaintiff has demonstrated
good cause for the testimony and documents sought. In opposition, though,
Defendant argues the court should deny this motion because Plaintiff’s counsel
failed to meet and confer in good faith. The court disagrees. After Defendant
did not appear for the August 16 deposition, Plaintiff’s counsel promptly
proposed alternate dates. (Cunningham Decl., ¶ 13; Ex. H, p. 8.) Plaintiff’s
counsel further requested that the parties stipulate to an order for a
deposition schedule to ensure the depositions would go forward. (Cunningham
Decl., ¶ 13; Ex. H, p. 8.) The court finds the proposed stipulation reasonable
given Defendant’s repeated failure to appear for multiple noticed depositions.
However, Defendant’s counsel refused to stipulate. (Cunningham Decl., ¶ 13; Ex.
H, pp. 2-3.) At this point, the parties reached an impasse. (Najemy Decl., ¶ 2;
Ex. 1.) Given the foregoing, the court finds that Plaintiff’s counsel has made
a good faith effort to meet and confer with Defendant’s counsel before filing
this motion.
            In
further support of his motion to compel, Plaintiff also argues Defendant waived
any objection to the noticed deposition by serving untimely objections. Under
Code of Civil Procedure section 2025.410, subdivisions (a) and (b), any party
served with a deposition notice waives any error or irregularity unless that
party personally serves a written objection at least three calendar days before
the scheduled deposition. Here, the deposition was set for Wednesday August 16,
2023. (Cunningham Decl., ¶ 7; Ex. G.) The third calendar day before Wednesday
August 16 being Sunday August 13, the date for personal service fell on Friday
August 11. Electronic service is not personal service. (Cunningham Decl., ¶ 9;
Ex. I.) Therefore, the objection served on August 11 by a method other than
personal service was late and thus waived. Moreover, even if the objection were
timely it was substantively devoid because it does not state how Plaintiff’s
deposition notice did not comply with Code of Civil Procedure section 2025.210
et. seq.; the objection cites the court’s local rules instead. (Section
2025.410, sub. (a).) 
            The
court grants Plaintiff’s motion to compel Defendant’s deposition and production
of documents. As the prevailing party, Plaintiff is entitled to attorney’s
fees. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.450, subd. (g)(1).) Moreover, Defendant lacks
substantial justification to oppose the motion. While the court sympathizes
with Defendant’s counsel’s circumstances, the court does not find that
Defendant’s refusal to appear at the deposition for months is warranted.
Plaintiff’s counsel’s proposed hourly rate is reasonable, and he has
substantiated his request with a breakdown of work performed. (Cunningham
Decl., ¶ 15.) 
CONCLUSION
            The court grants Plaintiff’s motion
to compel Defendant’s appearance at deposition and production of documents. The
court grants Plaintiff’s request for sanctions. Defendant shall appear for
deposition and produce documents within 10 days of this order. Defendant shall
pay Plaintiff’s counsel attorney’s fees of $3,060 within 30 days of
this order.
            Plaintiff
shall give notice.