  Case Number:  20STCP04014    Hearing Date:   January 5, 2024    Dept:  17 Superior
Court of California
County
of Los Angeles
 
DEPARTMENT 17
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 



ANTON
  KARRAA, et al.
                           
         vs.
 
SHAHIN
  SADIK, et al. 
 
                                          


 Case No.: 
  20STCP04014 
 
 
 
 Hearing
  Date:  January 4, 2024



 
 
Defendant’s
demurrer is SUSTAINED PART, OVERRULED IN PART:
 
-        
Defendant’s demurrer is
OVERRULED as to the third and fourth causes of action
 
-        
Defendant’s demurrer is
OVERRULED as to the first cause of action against Plaintiff Rabadi Service
Station, Inc.
 
-        
 Defendant’s demurrer is SUSTAINED, WITH 15
DAYS LEAVE TO AMEND, as the first cause of action against Virtual and
Individual Defendants Karraa and Stephens.
 
Defendant’s motion to strike is DENIED. 
 
            On
12/7/2020, Plaintiffs Anton Karraa, Rabadi Service Station, Inc., J. Keith
Stephens, and Virtual Media, In. filed suit against the City of Los Angeles and
Outfront Media, LLC alleging: (1) writ of mandate; (2) violation of California Unfair
Competition Law; (3) waste; and (4) private nuisance.
 
            Now,
Defendant Outfront Media, LLC demurs to Plaintiffs’ second, third, and fourth
causes of action. Outfront also moves to strike portions of Plaintiffs’
Complaint. 
 
Factual Background 
 
            This
action is based on a terminated license agreement through which Defendant
operated a billboard on Plaintiff’s property. Defendant argues that it was
required to remove the billboard upon termination. As a result, Defendant
applied and received a permit from the City of Los Angeles’ Department of
Building and Safety to remove the billboard, and removed it.
 
            Plaintiffs
allege that Defendant was not required to remove the billboard, that it did not
have their consent to do so, and that they illegally obtained the permit issued
by the Department of Building and Safety. Plaintiffs allege they have been
harmed by this improper removal because when they applied for a permit to
reconstruct the billboard (they had since entered into a new license agreement
whereby the company Virtual would rent the space), the permit application was
denied based on new 2020 Sign Ban.
 
Discussion 
 
            Defendant
argues that Plaintiff cannot state a claim for the second, third, or fourth
cause of action. More specifically, Defendant argues that: (1) Plaintiff lacks
standing under the UCL and has not alleged a UCL violation; (2) Plaintiff
consented to the alleged waste and it was required by contract; and (3)
Plaintiff consented to the alleged nuisance, and the City Ordinance expressly
authorized the purported nuisance.
            
            The
Court addresses each contention in turn.
 
            As
to the first contention, Defendant argues that Plaintiffs lack standing under
the UCL because only Plaintiff Rabadi is the property owner, and the remaining
Plaintiffs cannot claim they suffered economy injury based on lost rents under
the license agreement because they are not parties to the agreement. The Court
agrees that Plaintiffs have not alleged facts which could show Plaintiffs
Virtual, Kaara or Stephens have standing, but finds sufficient facts at the
pleading stage to show Plaintiffs Outfront has standing. 
 
“[T]o have
standing to bring a [UCL] cause of action, a plaintiff must ‘(1) establish a
loss or deprivation of money or property sufficient to qualify as injury in
fact, i.e., economic injury, and (2) show that the economic injury was the
result of, i.e., caused by, the unfair business practice … that is the gravamen
of the claim.” Bower v. AT&T Mobility, LLC (2011) 196 Cal. App. 4th 1545,
577 (quoting Kwikset Corp. v. Super. Ct. (2011) 51 Cal. 4th 310, 322)
 
Here, Rabadi
Service Station, Inc. owns the property where the billboard was removed, and
alleges that this removal was improper and has now deprived it of the ability
to rent out billboard advertising on its property. Accepted as true at the
pleading stage, these allegations are sufficient to show that it suffered an
economic loss as a result of Defendant’s alleged conduct.
 
While Virtual
was a party to the new license agreement with Outfront, it has not alleged
facts which could show it lost or was deprived of money as a result of being
unable to advertise on the property, nor has it alleged facts which could show
harm to its property.  Individual
Plaintiffs Kaara and Stephen do not allege any facts which could show monetary
or property loss. Plaintiffs’ opposition did not persuasively show otherwise.
Rather, Plaintiffs’ arguments concerned a reduction in the value of the
underlying real property, which is a harm only incurred by the owner.   
 
The Court
also finds sufficient facts have been alleged to show Plaintiff Outfront’s
entitlement to the injunctive relief provided for by the UCL. While Defendant
argues that Plaintiffs’ allegations of unfairness are based on “tortured”
interpretations of the license agreement, the Court accepts well-pled facts as
true at the pleading stage. In determining the intent of the parties the court
looks to the written contract as well as extrinsic evidence regarding the
parties’ intent at the time the contract was made. The parties’ expectations
are assessed by examining the language used in the contract, case law
interpreting similar language, and relevant extrinsic evidence, including the
subsequent conduct of the parties. (See Hewlett-Packard Co. v. Oracle Corp. (2021)
65 Cal.App.5th 506.)   As a result, a determination
as to the true intent and meaning of the license agreement terms is not
properly made at the demurrer stage. 
 
As for the
second contention, Defendant argues that the license agreement by its express
terms required the removal of the sign. In support, Defendant points to
provisions such as Paragraph 8 of the License Agreement, which provides that at
termination, Outfront Media, “shall remove the Sign … and [] shall restore the
Property to its condition prior to the Effective Date in a manner acceptable to
Licensor.” (Complaint Ex. A ¶ 8.) 
 
However, in
opposition, Plaintiffs note that later in the same paragraph the agreement
provides that “Licensor, in its sole discretion, shall have the right, but not
the obligation, to move all such signs, structures, and any appurtenances
thereto and restore the Property to such satisfactory condition at the sole
cost and expense of Licensee. (Complaint Ex. A ¶ 8.)
 
Thus, while
the Court certainly understands Defendant’s interpretation, there do seem to be
ambiguities in the contract as to who was able to remove things from the
property that should not be properly resolved at the pleading stage. 
 
Moreover, the
Court disagrees with Defendant that the alleged injury to Plaintiff is
repairable, not permanent. Plaintiffs allege that Outfront is now unable to
reconstruct a billboard due to a new Sign Ban. “Waste is defined as an unlawful
act … on the part of a tenant, resulting in permanent injury to the property.”
(Avalon Pac.-Santa Ana, L.P. v. HD Supply Repair & Remodel, LLC (2011)
192 Cal. App. 4th 1183, 1212.) Here, accepted as true, Plaintiffs have alleged
facts which could show that it has been permanently deprived the opportunity to
sell billboard advertising space on its property as a result of Defendant’s
removal. 
 
As for the
third contention, Defendant argues Plaintiffs cannot state a claim for private
nuisance because they consented to the removal, and because the nuisance was
expressly authorized. As set forth above, the Court finds that there are
disputes as to the true meaning of the contract, and whether or not Defendant
consented, which are not properly decided at this stage.
 
Moreover,
while it is true that “[n]othing which is done or maintained under the express
authority of a statute can be deemed a nuisance,” LAMC section 91.103.2 makes
it a misdemeanor to obtain a building permit without “the consent of the owner
of record of the property.” (Civ. Code § 3482.) Here, Plaintiffs allege that
they did not consent to removal, and that the permit was thus improperly
obtained through a false representation to the Department of Building and
Safety that there as consent for removal. An authorization of removal obtained
through improper means would not be an act done pursuant to express statutory
authority. (Farmers Ins. Exchange v. California (1985) 175
Cal.App.3d 494, 503) (“[A]cts done pursuant to express statutory authority are
by definition not a nuisance.”). Accepted as true, Plaintiffs have alleged
facts which could show that the alleged nuisance was not authorized by statute
because the act was performed without the consent to the remove as required by
the statute. 
 
Based on the
foregoing, Defendant’s demurrer is sustained in part, overruled in part.
Defendant’s demurrer is overruled as to the third and fourth causes of action.
Defendant’s demurrer is overruled as to the first cause of action against
Plaintiff Rabadi Service Station, Inc. Defendant’s demurrer is sustained, with
15 days leave to amend, as the first cause of action against Virtual and
Individual defendants Karraa and Stephens. 
 
Motion to Strike 
            
            Defendant
argues that Plaintiff cannot support a prayer for punitive damages. 
 
            As
set forth above, the Court overruled the demurrer as to the causes of action
for waste and private nuisance, and concluded Plaintiff Rabadi had alleged
sufficient facts to state a claim for a UCL violation. Accordingly, Plaintiffs
have alleged sufficient facts at the pleading stage which could show despicable
conduct that subjects a person to cruel and unjust hardship in conscious
disregard of that person’s rights. (Id., subd. (c)(2).)

 
            Based on
the foregoing, Defendant’s motion to strike is denied.
 
It is so ordered. 
 
Dated:  January   
, 2024
                                                                                                                                                           
   Hon. Jon R.
Takasugi
   Judge of the
Superior Court
 
 
 
Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must
send an email to the court at smcdept17@lacourt.org
by 4 p.m. the day prior as directed by the instructions provided on the court
website at www.lacourt.org.  If a party submits
on the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must
identify the party submitting on the tentative. 
If all parties to a motion submit, the court will adopt this
tentative as the final order.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  For more information, please contact the court clerk at (213)
633-0517.  
 Superior
Court of California
County
of Los Angeles
 
DEPARTMENT 17
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 



ANTON
  KARRAA, et al.
                           
         vs.
 
SHAHIN
  SADIK, et al. 
 
                                          


 Case No.: 
  20STCP04014 
 
 
 
 Hearing
  Date:  January 5, 2024



 
 
            Defendant’s
special motion to strike (anti-SLAPP) is DENIED. 
 
            On
12/7/2020, Plaintiffs Anton Karraa, Rabadi Service Station, Inc., J. Keith
Stephens, and Virtual Media, In. filed suit against the City of Los Angeles and
Outfront Media, alleging: (1) writ of mandate; (2) violation of California
unfair competition law; (3) waste; and (4) private nuisance.
 
            Now,
Defendant Outfront Media, LLC (Defendant) specially moves to strike Plaintiffs’
second and third causes of action.    
 
Legal
Standard
 
On a
special motion to strike pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure (CCP) section
425.16, also known as an anti-SLAPP motion, moving parties have the initial
burden to demonstrate that a cause of action is subject to a special motion to
strike. (Martinez v. Metabolife Inter.
Ins. (2003) 113 Cal.App.4th 181, 186; Fox
Searchlight Pictures Inc. v. Paladino (2001) 89 Cal.App.4th 294, 304.)
First, the court must determine whether moving parties have
made a prima facie showing that the attacked claims arise from a
protected activity, including defendants’ right of petition, or free speech,
under a constitution, in connection with issues of public interest. (Healy
v. Tuscany Hills Landscape & Recreation Corp., (2006) 137 Cal.App.4th
1, 5; Soukup v. Law Offices of Herbert Hafif (2006)
39 Cal.4th 260, 278; Code Civ. Proc., § 425.16, subd.
(e).) Moving parties can satisfy this burden by showing (1) statements made
before legislative, executive or judicial proceedings, or made in
connection with matters being considered in such proceedings, or (2) statements
made in a public forum, or other conduct in furtherance of the exercise of the
constitutional rights of petition or free speech, in connection with issues of
public interest. (Code Civ. Proc., § 425.16, subd. (e); Equilon Ent.,
LLC v. Consumer Cause, Inc. (2002) 29 Cal.4th 53, 66.) 
 
If the
court finds this showing has been made, it must dismiss the cause of action
unless the plaintiff meets its burden to demonstrate a probability of
prevailing on the claim. (Code Civ. Proc., § 425.16, subd.
(b)(1); Balzaga v.
Fox News Network, LLC (2009) 173 Cal.App.4th 1325, 1336.)
This means that the plaintiff must state a legally sufficient claim and
must then present evidence that substantiates or sustains the claim. (Equilon Enterprises
v. Consumer Cause, Inc. (2002) 29 Cal.4th 53, 61; see also Wilson
v. Parker, Covert & Chidester (2002)
28 Cal.4th 811, 821 [plaintiff “must demonstrate that the complaint is both
legally sufficient and supported by a sufficient prima facie showing of facts
to sustain a favorable judgment if the evidence submitted by the plaintiff is
credited”].) 
 
Factual Background 
 
            This
action is based on a terminated license agreement through which Defendant
operated a billboard on Plaintiff’s property. Defendant argues that it was
required to remove the billboard upon termination. As a result, Defendant
applied and received a permit from the City of Los Angeles’ Department of
Building and Safety to remove the billboard, and
removed it.
 
            Plaintiffs
allege that Defendant was not required to remove the billboard, that it did not
have their consent to do so, and that they illegally obtained the permit issued
by the Department of Building and Safety. Plaintiffs allege they have been
harmed by this improper removal because when they applied for a permit to
reconstruct the billboard (they had since entered into a new license agreement
whereby the company Virtual would rent the space), the permit application was
denied based on new 2020 Sign Ban.
 
Discussion 
 
            Defendant
argues that Plaintiffs claim arises out of their application for a permit and
thus arises out of protected activity, and Plaintiffs cannot establish a
probability of prevailing on the merits because they were expressly required to
apply for the permit and Plaintiffs consented. 
 
 
            As
to the first prong of the anti-SLAPP analysis, the Court disagree Plaintiffs’
claims arise out of protected activity.
 
            Here,
Defendant categorizes Plaintiffs’ waste claim as targeting Defendant’s
procurement of a permit to remove the billboard, which it claims it was legally
required to do. However, this construes Defendant’s waste claim far too
narrowly. 
 
            Per
the Complaint, the waste cause of action is based on an allegation that “[a]s a
result of the harm intentionally done by Defendants to the first billboard,
they have committed waste and damaged the service station property unreasonably
and in an amount accord to proof as trial.” (Complaint ¶ 70.) Plaintiff further
alleges that “[i]n the event, such harm can be repaired, Plaintiffs damages
will include loss of revenue to Virtual and of rent to Rabadi during the time
of such repairs. In the event, the harm done by Defendants cannot be repaired,
then their damages will include the diminished value of the service station property
in the minimum amount of one million dollars to Rabadi and loss of revenue to
Virtual in an amount according to proof at trial.” (Complaint ¶¶ 71-72.)
 
As such, by
its express terms, the waste claim is based on, and arises out of, the removal
of the billboard of itself. While the procurement of a permit was part of the
removal, the act of filing for the permit is only incidental to the harm
alleged. 
 
“If the
allegations of protected activity are only incidental to a cause of action
based essentially on nonprotected activity, the mere mention of the protected
activity does not subject the cause of action to an anti-SLAPP motion.”  (Scott
v. Metabolife Internat., Inc. (2004) 115 Cal.App.4th 404, 414)
 
Courts have
held that a “mixed cause of action”—that is, one based on both protected and
unprotected activity—“is subject to section 425.16 if at least one of the
underlying acts is protected conduct, unless the allegations of protected
conduct are merely incidental to the unprotected activity.”  (Salma
v. Capon (2008)161 Cal.App.4th 1275, 1287). 
However, in making this inquiry, courts have generally gone beyond
determining the mere existence of one claim of protected activity; instead,
they look to see whether the essence or “bulk” of the cause of action is based
on protected activity.  (Id. at 1288.)  
 
For example,
in Wang v. Wal–Mart Real Estate Business
Trust (2007) 153 Cal.App.4th 790, 809, the Court of Appeal overturned the
trial court’s ruling that the complaint arose from protected activity, holding
that the anti-SLAPP protections did not apply because the “overall thrust” of
the complaint was based on unprotected activity and the protected
activity—pursuit of government permits—was collateral to the parties’ dispute.
 
Similarly, in
Baharian-Mehr v. Smith (2010) 189
Cal.App.4th 265, 273, the Court of Appeal affirmed the denial of defendant’s
anti-SLAPP motion because the “gravamen” of the plaintiff’s complaint was not
defendant’s protected conduct; the defendant’s petitioning activity was
“ ‘only incidental’ to a business dispute based on nonprotected activity.”
 
Here, the
pursuit of a Building and Safety permit is collateral to the parties’ dispute.
The gravamen of Plaintiffs’ Complaint is that the license agreement did not
require removal and that Defendant needed to obtain Plaintiffs’ consent before
it removed the billboard. The thrust of Defendant’s defense is that the license
agreement required removal, and that the license agreement itself expressly
provided Defendant’s consent for removal. 
 
 Plaintiffs do not allege any harm caused by
the act of seeking the permit: rather, the permit is only relevant to the
extent that city regulations required a permit to be obtained to remove the
billboard, and thus was part of the process of removal. Moreover, while
Plaintiffs allege that Defendant committed a misdemeanor by falsely representing
that it had Defendant’s consent to remove the billboard, Plaintiff is not
actually claiming harm based on the filing of the permit itself, but on the
removal of which the permit was only a necessary procedural step. While the
removal could not have been lawfully conducted without the permit this does not
mean that the overall thrust of Plaintiffs’ Complaint is the permit process. 
 
As such, like
in Wang and Baharian-Mehr, this action concerns a business
dispute. The petitioning activity here, i.e., the pursuit of a permit, is
merely incidental to the non-protected contractual dispute. This conclusion is
reinforced by the fact that Plaintiffs could assert identical claims even if Defendant
had not pursued a permit. The only difference would be that instead of alleging
that Defendant was improperly awarded a permit, they would allege that
Defendant did not seek a permit as required, and thus the removal was improper.
In light of this, the conclusion that this petitioning activity is only
incidental to the claims here is reinforced. 
 
Moreover,
even assuming the permit was not incidental, Plaintiffs allege that the permit
application here was entirely based on a false statement made under penalty of
perjury.  “Perjured statements lack First
Amendment protection not simply because they are false, but because perjury
undermines the function and province of the law and threatens the integrity of
judgments.” (United States v. Alvarez (2012) 567 U.S. 709, 132 S. Ct.
2537, 2539–40, 183 L. Ed. 2d 574.) 
 
Based on the
foregoing, Defendant’s special motion to strike is denied. 
 
It is so ordered. 
 
Dated:  January   
, 2023
                                                                                                                                                           
   Hon. Jon R.
Takasugi
   Judge of the
Superior Court
 
 
 
Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must
send an email to the court at smcdept17@lacourt.org
by 4 p.m. the day prior as directed by the instructions provided on the court
website at www.lacourt.org.  If a party submits
on the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must
identify the party submitting on the tentative. 
If all parties to a motion submit, the court will adopt this
tentative as the final order.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  For more information, please contact the court clerk at (213)
633-0517.  
 
 
 