 Case Number:  23STCV19898    Hearing Date:   March 21, 2024    Dept:  17 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
 
DEPARTMENT
17
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 



EDUARDO VALENTIN CRUZ, individually and on
  behalf of all others similarly situated 
 
        
  vs.
 
BJ’S RESTAURANT 
 


 Case
  No.:  23STCV19898 
 
 
 
 Hearing Date: March 21, 2024



 
Defendant’s
demurrer is SUSTAINED, WITHOUT LEAVE TO AMEND. 
 
            On
8/18/2023, Plaintiff Eduardo Valentin Cruz (Plaintiff), individually, and on
behalf of all others similarly situated, filed suit against BJ’s Restaurant,
Inc. (Defendant), alleging: (1) failure to pay minimum wages; (2) failure to
pay overtime compensation; (3) failure to provide meal periods; (4) failure to
authorize and permit rest breaks; (5) failure to indemnify necessary business
expenses; (6) failure to timely pay final wages; (7) failure to provide
accurate itemized wage statements; and (8) unfair business practices. 
 
            On
2/8/2024, Defendant demurred to Plaintiff’s Complaint. 
 
Discussion 
 
Defendant
argues that Plaintiff’s Complaint is time-barred, pursuant to the one-year
statute of limitations set forth in CCP section 340(a).
 
Prior to
filing an action under PAGA, and thus within one year of the alleged violation,
the Plaintiff employee must satisfy the mandatory exhaustion requirements by
sending notice of the claims to the Defendant employer and the Labor and
Workforce Development Agency (LWDA). (See Cal. Labor Code § 2699.3.) The
limitations period is tolled for up to 65 days during the mandatory exhaustion
period as set forth in Labor Code Section 2699.3(a)(2)(A). Therefore, if an
employee timely exhausts his administrative remedies, the limitations period in
which to file a PAGA complaint is up to one year and 65 days.
 
Here,
Plaintiff admits in his FAC that his employment with Defendant ended “August
27, 2022.” (FAC ¶ 9.) Moreover, Plaintiff contends that he exhausted his
administrative remedies and gave notice to the LWDA and Defendant on August 18,
2023. (See FAC ¶ 26.) Based on the date of Plaintiff’s employment end date,
Plaintiff had, at the latest, until October 31, 2023 (one year and 65 days
after August 27, 2022) to properly and timely exhaust his administrative
remedies and provide written notice to the LWDA and Defendant and to file his
lawsuit to assert a PAGA claim. Critically, as evidenced by his FAC, Plaintiff
did not file his PAGA claim until December 20, 2023, nearly two months after
the one-year statute of limitations period had expired on October 31, 2023.
(FAC ¶ 9.) 
 
In
opposition, Plaintiff argues that his claim is timely based on his filing of a
Notice of PAGA claim letter and the “relation-back” doctrine. 
 
As for the
first contention (i.e., he provided timely notice to the LWDA and Defendant),
Plaintiff does not cite to any authority that states that a plaintiff is
considered to have timely filed his PAGA claim in court so long as the
plaintiff provides written notice to the LWDA and/or the employer. (“This
failure to cite pertinent legal authority is enough reason to reject the
argument”) (Akins v. State of California (1998) 61 Cal.App.4th 1, 50, 71
(contention waived by failure to cite legal authority).
 
As for the
second contention, generally a plaintiff can only relate back their untimely
filing from one PAGA claim to an earlier filed timely PAGA claim. Courts
have found that the filing of a wage- hour complaint does not allow the
relation back of an untimely filed PAGA claim based upon the same claims and
theories. (See, e.g., Esparza v. Safeway, Inc., 36 Cal. App.5 42, 60-61
(plaintiff asserted a PAGA claim for the first time in a second amended
complaint, filed two years after the original complaint. The Court of Appeal
concluded that the PAGA claim had properly been struck by the trial court as
untimely). 
 
In
opposition, Plaintiff cited cases like Brown v. Ralphs Grocery Co.
(2018) 28 Cal.App.5th 824, 839 and Esparza v. Safeway, Inc. (2019) 36
Cal. App. 5th 42. Those cases concerned whether subsequently-filed LWDA notices
related back to the earlier-filed notices or Complaint. However, here, the
issue is not whether Plaintiff timely submitted notice to the LWDA, but whether
or not Plaintiff failed to file his PAGA claim in Court within the one-year
statute of limitations. Plaintiff cites to Esparza to argue that his
untimely amended complaint should relate back to his original complaint because
“the [original] complaint was preceded by timely notice to the LWDA.” (Esparza,
supra, 36 Cal. App. 5th at p. 62.) However, in Esparza there was
an earlier-filed PAGA claim asserted in an earlier-filed action. (Ibid.)
Here, no such PAGA claim was ever asserted in Plaintiff’s original complaint,
and, as stated, Plaintiff has offered no authority to show that a notice letter
is sufficient to comply with the PAGA filing requirements.  
 
As noted by
Defendant, “Plaintiff’s argument would effectively eviscerate any statute of
limitations applicable to PAGA claims if there was any pending civil claim.
Such a novel paradigm would effectively permit parties to assert PAGA claims in
a LWDA notice but never file their PAGA claim in court until some indeterminate
future time.” (Reply, 4: 3-7.)
 
The Court
agrees that Plaintiff’s claim appears time-barred on its face, and that
Plaintiff has not shown he can rely on the relation-back doctrine to file a
PAGA claim after its limitations period expires, where there was not an
earlier-filed PAGA claim filed with the court. 
 
Based on the
foregoing, Defendant’s demurrer is sustained, without leave to amend.  
                                                                                                  
 
It is so ordered. 
 
Dated:  March   
, 2024
                                                                                                                                                           
   Hon. Jon R.
Takasugi
   Judge of the
Superior Court
 
 
 
Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must
send an email to the court at smcdept17@lacourt.org
by 4 p.m. the day prior as directed by the instructions provided on the court
website at www.lacourt.org.  If a party submits
on the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must
identify the party submitting on the tentative. 
If all parties to a motion submit, the court will adopt this
tentative as the final order.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  For more information, please contact the court clerk at (213)
633-0517.  
 
  

 