  Case Number:  22STCV33389    Hearing Date:   March 21, 2024    Dept:  17 Superior
Court of California
County
of Los Angeles
 
DEPARTMENT 17
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 



JAKE
  GOLDBERGER 
                           
         vs.
 
BACK
  TO BALTIMORE, et al. 
                                         


 Case No.: 
  22STCV33389
 
 
 
 Hearing
  Date:  March 21, 2024



 
Plaintiff’s
motion for leave to amend to file an FAC is GRANTED. 
 
            On
10/12/2022, Plaintiff Goldberger (Plaintiff) filed suit against Back to
Baltimore, Inc., Alex Ginzburg, and Dongkwan “Tony” Lee, alleging: (1) breach
of contract; (2) fraud and concealment; (3) conversion in violation of Penal
Code section 496; and (4) money had and received. 
 
            On
2/21/2024, Plaintiff moved for leave to amend to file a first amended complaint
(FAC). 
 
Discussion 
 
            Plaintiff
argues that good cause exists to grant leave to amend to allow new facts to be
alleged. 
 
            After
review, the Court agrees. 
 
            Plaintiff
does not seek to add any new causes of action. Rather, Plaintiff seeks to add
new allegations that Defendants knowingly concealed that it had an outstanding
bank loan (Loan), and that per the terms of the parties’ Agreement, the Loan
would have to be paid back before Plaintiff could be repaid. The existence of
this Loan has a significant impact on Plaintiff’s claims, as Plaintiff now
claims he was defrauded into entering the Agreement at issue in this action
based on concealment. 
 
            In
opposition, Defendant contends that Plaintiff’s claim is without merit because:

 
Plaintiff has always been told
that there was no “Revenue Waterfall” in this case as that term has been
defined in the Amended And Restated Production Financing / Loan Agreement which
is the agreement underlying this lawsuit. All Plaintiff had to do was to read
the single page of the Agreement entitled “Revenue Waterfall” to understand
that repayment of any loans made by any financial institution took precedence
to any payment directly to Plaintiff.
 
            (Opp.,
2:16-20.)
 
            However,
while this speaks to Plaintiff’s knowledge of the repayment hierarchy, this
does not speak to Plaintiff’s contention that Defendant concealed the fact that
any such loan subject to this provision existed. 
 
            Plaintiff
submitted evidence that Defendants failed to disclose the Loan until January
2024 in three regards: 
 
First, after avoiding service as
mentioned above, Defendants filed Answers to Plaintiff's Complaint in January
and February 2023. The Answers filed by Defendants, however, never mentioned
any third-party loan. 
 
Second, Plaintiff served Form
Interrogatories upon Defendants on April 14, 2023, which Defendants responded
to on May 29, 2023. This included Form Interrogatory No. 15.1 which required
Defendants to "identify each denial of a material allegation and each special
or affirmative defense...and for each state all facts on which you base the
denial or special or affirmative defense. Even after Plaintiff demanded further
response, Defendants’ amended responses still failed to mention any purported
Bank Loan as part of its affirmative defenses. 

 
Third, Plaintiff served a document
request along with a deposition notice served in May 2023 for B2B's PMK, and
pursuant to an agreement of counsel, Defendants produced all of the documents
supposedly responsive thereto (without objection) prior to the deposition, on
July 31, 2023. As explained further:
 
Plaintiff was concerned that the
documents produced were threadbare and sought to meet and confer with
Defendant, through a letter of August 30, 2023. This included meeting and conferring
about requests where any Bank Loan should have been responsive (e.g., a request
for communications between the individual Defendants and third parties
concerning the Film, or for documents relating to "the production of the
Film, including all documents relating to the budget or expenses"). In
response, on September 20, 2023, Defendants' counsel again took the position
that "I am just as interested as you are in any documents that may
contribute to the resolution of this case. However, what you have received
represents all documents responsive to your client's document requests that are
currently in the custody, control, or possession of my clients" and again
failed to mention or even allude to the existence of the Bank Loan. 
 
            (Motion, 5:
15-24.) 
 
            After
learning of the alleged Loan at the January 2024 deposition, and upon receiving
a copy of the PMK’s deposition transcript on February 12, 2024, Plaintiff moved
for leave to amend. Accordingly, the Court declines to find unreasonable delay.

 
            Moreover,
Defendants argue that they will be prejudiced because their motion for summary
judgment is built on the original Complaint. However, this ignores that
Plaintiff’s evidence indicates that Defendants failed to disclose the existence
of a Bank loan. As such, any prejudice would be the result of Defendants’ own
conduct. Additionally, "if summary judgment is granted on the ground that
the complaint is legally insufficient, but it appears from the materials
submitted in opposition to the motion that the plaintiff could state a cause of
action, the trial court should give the plaintiff an opportunity to amend. (Leek
v. Cooper (2011) 194 Cal. App. 4th 399.) As such, not only would it greatly
prejudice Plaintiff he would likely be entitled to a continuance to Defendants’
motion for summary judgment based on the recent discovery of these additional
facts. 
 
The
policy favoring leave to amend is so strong that it is an abuse of discretion
to deny an amendment unless the adverse party can show meaningful prejudice. (Atkinson
v. Elk Corp. (2003) 109 Cal.App.4th 739, 761.) Here, the Court finds insufficient evidence of prejudice
to Defendants to deny amendment. 
 
Based on the
foregoing, Plaintiff’s motion for leave to amend to file an FAC is
granted.  
 
 
It is so ordered. 
 
Dated:  March   
, 2024
                                                                                                                                                           
   Hon. Jon R.
Takasugi
   Judge of the
Superior Court
 
 
 
Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must
send an email to the court at smcdept17@lacourt.org
by 4 p.m. the day prior as directed by the instructions provided on the court
website at www.lacourt.org.  If a party submits
on the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must
identify the party submitting on the tentative. 
If all parties to a motion submit, the court will adopt this
tentative as the final order.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  For more information, please contact the court clerk at (213)
633-0517.  
 
 
 
 
            