 Case Number:  22STCV37405    Hearing Date:   March 21, 2024    Dept:  17 Superior
Court of California
County of Los Angeles
 
DEPARTMENT
17
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



HK
  YUNTAO, INC. LIMITED 
 
         vs.
 
AMERICAN
  FASHION NETWORK, et al. 
  


 Case No.: 
  22STCV37405  
 
 
 
 Hearing
  Date:  March 22, 2024




 
Defendants’
demurrer is SUSTAINED, WITH 20 DAYS LEAVE TO AMEND.
 
Defendant’s
motion to strike is MOOT.
  
On
11/29/2022, Plaintiff HK Yuntao, Inc. Limited (Plaintiff) filed suit against
American Fashion Network, LLC, OTR Corporate Apparel, LTD, and Jacqueline
Ferrari aka Jacqueline Wilson. On 6/30/2023, Plaintiff filed a first amended
complaint (FAC) alleging: (1) breach of contract; (2) goods sold and delivered;
(3) account stated; (4) open book account; (5) fraud; and (6) unfair business
practices. 
 
            Now,
Defendants demur to Plaintiff’s FAC. 
 
Discussion
 
            Defendants
argue that subject matter jurisdiction is lacking in this matter, that
Plaintiff does not have standing to pursue these claims, and the claims are
insufficiently pled. 
 
              After review, the Court agrees that Plaintiff
has not alleged sufficient facts to state a claim, and that the lack of
supporting allegations creates uncertainty as to issues of standing and subject
matter jurisdiction. 
 
It is
well-established in California, that “if the action is based on an alleged
breach of a written contract, the terms must be set out verbatim in the body of
the complaint or a copy of the written instrument must be attached and
incorporated by reference.” (Wise v. Southern Pacific Co. (1963) 223
Cal. App.2 d 50, 59.) Moreover, given Plaintiff alleges it is an assignee,
Plaintiff must allege facts which could show that the assignor meant to assign
rights and obligations under the contracts. (Britton v. Co-op Banking Group
(9th Cir. 1993). 4 F.3d 742, 746.) 
             
As noted by
Defendant, Plaintiff has not done any of the following: (1) attach any of the
agreements that it claims to sue upon; (2) plead the essential terms and
conditions of the contracts upon which it sues; (3) identify any specific
memoranda executed by the parties to be charged in connection with any
transaction; and/or (4) attach or plead the existence of any assignment from
any of the third parties that actually provided goods relevant to this Action. 
 
While
Plaintiff’s FAC references exhibits included in an Application for a Right to
Attach, “[r]ecords and papers cannot be made a part of a pleading by merely
referring to them, and praying that they may be taken as a part of such
pleading, without annexing the originals or copies as exhibits or incorporating
them with it so as to form a part of the record in the case.” (Ratner v.
Mun. Ct. of Los Angeles Jud. Dist., Los Angeles Cnty. (1967) 256 Cal. App.
2d 925, 928, citing Legg v. United Ben. Life Ins. Co. of Omaha (1960)
182 Cal. App. 2d 573, 578.) 
 
As such,
Plaintiff must either incorporate the referenced exhibits into the complaint
itself, or must plead all the essential terms and conditions of the relevant
contracts. 
 
In
opposition, Plaintiff argues that the allegations are sufficient because “the
FAC specifically refers to the Appendix filed in this action, specifies the
exhibits to the Appendix which contain the purchase orders and invoices at
issue and incorporates them by reference in the FAC.” (Opp., 7: 22-24.)
However, no such Appendix is included in the 14-page FAC. And Plaintiff’s
pleadings are bound by the four corners of the Complaint. Plaintiff’s repeated
references and reliance on the Appendix to support her allegations, without the
actual inclusion of this Appendix or Exhibits, renders her claims insufficiently
pled, regardless of whether that Appendix or Exhibits have been previously
included elsewhere. 
 
Given that
Plaintiff has not alleged sufficient facts which could show that binding
contracts exist, or that it it has standing to pursue claims based on an
alleged breach of those contracts, Plaintiff has necessarily failed to allege
sufficient facts to support its underlying claims, which are all based on
allegations stemming from performance of the contract. 
 
However, in
anticipation of future motion practice, the Court notes that if Plaintiff is
able to resolve this deficiency, she will have alleged sufficient facts to
support her underlying claims. 
 
Contrary to
Defendant’s contention, Plaintiff alleges fraud with the requisite specificity,
alleging that from late 2023 until as recently as October 2022, “Defendant
Ferrari, on behalf of herself and Defendants AFN and OTR, repeatedly assured
Plaintiff, both in writing and orally, that Defendants would pay for all of the
garments Defendants AFN and OTR had ordered from Plaintiff and/or its assignors
to induce Plaintiff to accept more orders from Defendants AFN and OTR.” (FAC ¶
44.) Plaintiff alleges that Defendant knew these representations were false,
and had no intention of paying for the goods. (FAC ¶ 46.) Moreover, it is not
appropriately determined at the pleading stage whether or not the UCL applies
to none, some, or all alleged transactions, given that there has been no
factual determination as to if or where any of the alleged transactions took
place. Notably, none of the cases cite by Defendant dealt with a demurrer or
involved rulings made at the pleadings stage. 
 
Moreover,
while Defendants argue that Plaintiff does not have standing to sue because
assignments must be in writing, an assignment of contract rights can be found
even where it is not in writing. (CACI No. 326.) 
 
Based on the
foregoing, Defendants’ demurrer is sustained, with 20 days leave to amend.
Accordingly, Defendant’s motion to strike is moot.  
 
It is so ordered. 
 
Dated:  March   
, 2024
                                                                                                                                                           
   Hon. Jon R.
Takasugi
   Judge of the
Superior Court
 
 
 
Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must
send an email to the court at smcdept17@lacourt.org
by 4 p.m. the day prior as directed by the instructions provided on the court
website at www.lacourt.org.  If a party submits
on the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must
identify the party submitting on the tentative. 
If all parties to a motion submit, the court will adopt this
tentative as the final order.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  For more information, please contact the court clerk at (213)
633-0517.  
 
 