 Case Number:  22STCV36359    Hearing Date:   March 21, 2024    Dept:  17 Superior
Court of California
County
of Los Angeles
 
DEPARTMENT 17
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 



CHRISTOPHER
  DIXON 
                           
         vs.
 
26
  CENTER DISTRIBUTION LLC., et al.
  


 Case No.: 22STCV36359     
 
 
 
 Hearing
  Date:  March 21, 2024



 
 
Plaintiff’s
motion to compel further responses from Defendant 26 Center Distribution, LLC
to his RFPs (Set Two) is GRANTED IN PART, DENIED IN PART, consistent with the
ruling set forth below. 
 
Accordingly,
the Court declines to award sanctions at this time.
 
            On
6/5/2023, Plaintiff Christopher Dixon (Plaintiff) filed suit against 26 Center
Distribution, LLC dba “Dura Trucking,” Simon Bouzaglou, and Yassine Amalla,
alleging: (1) whistleblower retaliation; (2) wrongful termination; (3)
non-payment of earned wages; (4) failure to reimburse business expenses; (5)
failure to pay overtime wages; (6) failure to provide duty-free meal periods;
(7) failure to provide duty free rest periods; (8) failure to provide accurate
itemized wage statements; (9) deficient pay penalties; and (10) waiting time
penalties.
 
            On
11/15/2023, Plaintiff moved to compel further responses to his Requests for
Production (RFPs) (Set Two) propounded on Defendant 26 Center Distribution, LLC
(Defendant). Plaintiff seeks monetary sanctions. 
 
Discussion
 
            Plaintiff
argues that good cause exists to compel further responses from Defendant to his
RFP Nos. 63-73. 
 
            After
review, the Court agrees good cause exists to compel further responses.
However, the Court finds the scope of some requests must be narrowed. 
 
The RFPs in
question seek documents which specify relationships between the defendant
parties and their related businesses/entities identified in the parties’
discovery. 
 
The Court
finds RFP Nos. 64, 66, 68, 70, 72 to be narrowly tailored in that they are
limited to contract documents from January 1, 2016 to present. 
 
However, the
Court finds the scope of RFP Nos. 63, 65, 67, 69, 71, and 73 to be overly
broad, given that these requests seek “Any and all DOCUMENTS that state the
terms of each and every business relationship” that Defendant had with the
named entity. Such a request is vague as to what would qualify as stating the
terms of each and every business relationship, it would be unduly burdensome given
the work required to search for and produce the information potentially
encompassed in this request, and such a burden is not justified by the
potential utility of this information given that Plaintiff already seeks the
contracts with these same entities which will state the terms of their business
relationships.   
 
            Based
on the foregoing, Plaintiff’s motion to compel further responses to his RFPs is
granted in part, denied in part, consistent with the ruling set forth above.
Accordingly, the Court declines to award sanctions at this time. 
 
 
It is so ordered. 
 
Dated:  March   
, 2024
                                                                                                                                                           
   Hon. Jon R.
Takasugi
   Judge of the
Superior Court
 
 
 
Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must
send an email to the court at smcdept17@lacourt.org
by 4 p.m. the day prior as directed by the instructions provided on the court
website at www.lacourt.org.  If a party submits
on the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must
identify the party submitting on the tentative. 
If all parties to a motion submit, the court will adopt this
tentative as the final order.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  For more information, please contact the court clerk at (213)
633-0517.  
 
 
            