  Case Number:  23SMCV01508    Hearing Date:   January 10, 2024    Dept:  N TENTATIVE RULINGPlaintiff Adriana Fadlallah’s Motion for Order Compelling Further Responses to Special Interrogatories is GRANTED. Defendant Robert McKee shall provide code-compliant responses to all requests identified as “at issue” in the motion, without objections except as to attorney work product and attorney-client privilege, with an accompanying privilege log if so invoked, within thirty (30) days of entry of this order.Plaintiff Adriana Fadlallah’s Motion for Order Compelling Further Responses to Form Interrogatories is GRANTED. Defendant Robert McKee shall provide code-compliant responses to all requests identified as “at issue” in the motion, without objections except as to attorney work product and attorney-client privilege, with an accompanying privilege log if so invoked, within thirty (30) days of entry of this order.Plaintiff Adriana Fadlallah’s Motion for Order Compelling Further Responses to Requests for Admission is GRANTED. Defendant Robert McKee shall provide code-compliant responses to all requests identified as “at issue” in the motion, without objections except as to attorney work product and attorney-client privilege, with an accompanying privilege log if so invoked, within thirty (30) days of entry of this order.Plaintiff Adriana Fadlallah’s Motion to Compel Attendance and Production at Deposition is GRANTED. Within ten (10) days, the parties shall meet and confer to determine a date for the deposition of Defendant Robert McKee.Plaintiff Adriana Fadlallah’s Requests for Monetary Sanctions are GRANTED in the reduced amount of $4,080, representing $1,020 for each of the four motions against Defendant Robert McKee, payable by Defendant Robert McKee and defense counsel to Plaintiff Adriana Fadlallah and Plaintiff’s counsel within thirty (30) days of entry of this order.Plaintiff Adriana Fadlallah’s Motion for Order Establishing Admissions and for Monetary Sanctions Against Oliver Holt and His Attorneys Ford, Walker, Haggerty & Behar is CONTINUED to a future date to be determined at the hearing on these motions.  Plaintiff Adriana Fadlallah shall provide a supplemental brief of no more than five (5) pages with legal authority for (1) deeming requests for admission admitted against a deceased party or imposing monetary sanctions for failing to respond when the party is deceased, and (2) continuing to prosecute this action against Defendant Oliver Holt dba Oliver Holt Landscape when it appears Plaintiff has since named the Estate of Oliver Holt as a defendant.Plaintiff Adriana Fadlallah to give notice. REASONINGPlaintiff Adriana Fadlallah’s Motion for Order Compelling Further Responses to Special Interrogatories for Monetary & Terminating Sanctions Against Robert McKee and His Attorneys Ford, Walker, Haggerty & Behar; Plaintiff Adriana Fadlallah’s Motion for Order Compelling Further Responses to Form Interrogatories for Monetary & Terminating Sanctions Against Robert McKee and His Attorneys Ford, Walker, Haggerty & Behar; Plaintiff Adriana Fadlallah’s Motion for Order Compelling Further Responses to Requests for Admission and for Monetary and Terminating Sanctions Against Robert McKee and His Attorneys Ford, Walker, Haggerty & BeharIf a party that has propounded interrogatories believes that the responses received are evasive or incomplete, or that an objection to the interrogatories is without merit or too general, the propounding party may bring a motion to compel further responses to the interrogatories. (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 2030.300, subd. (a); see also Best Products, Inc. v. Superior Court (2004) 119 Cal.App.4th 1181, 1189-1190 [motion to compel proper to challenge “boilerplate” responses].) Further, “[o]n receipt of a response to requests for admissions, the party requesting admissions may move for an order compelling a further response if that party deems that either or both of the following apply: [¶] (1) An answer to a particular request is evasive or incomplete. [¶] (2) An objection to a particular request is without merit or too general.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2033.290, subd. (a).)“Unless notice of this motion is given within 45 days of the service of the verified response, or any supplemental verified response, or on or before any specific later date to which the propounding party and the responding party have agreed in writing, the propounding party waives any right to compel a further response” to the interrogatories or requests for admission. (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 2030.300, subd. (c), 2033.290, subd. (c).) This timeliness requirement is mandatory, and in some sense may even be considered a matter of jurisdiction, and the Court therefore “[has] no power to make an order compelling further answers where the propounding party failed to serve this motion within the statutory time.” (Prof’l Career Colls., Magna Inst., Inc. v. Superior Court (1989) 207 Cal.App.3d 490, 493; see also Vidal Sassoon, Inc. v. Superior Court (1983) 147 Cal.App.3d 681 [same].)   A motion to compel further responses must be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration under Code of Civil Procedure section 2016.040. (See Code Civ. Proc., §§ 2030.300, subd. (b), 2033.290, subd. (b).) A meet and confer declaration must “state facts showing a reasonable and good faith attempt at an informal resolution of each issue presented by the motion.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2016.040.) California Rules of Court, rule 3.1345(a) requires that any motion to compel further responses to discovery contain a separate statement with the text of each request, the response, and a statement of factual and legal reasons for compelling further.The Court has reviewed Plaintiff Adriana Fadlallah (“Plaintiff”)’s special interrogatories, form interrogatories, and requests for admissions at issue in the motions, as well as Defendant Robert McKee (“McKee”)’s responses to the same and finds that McKee must supplement his responses to all discovery identified in the four motions. McKee responded to the requests at issue with the same boilerplate objections, seeming to invoke any objections possible without explaining the basis for the objections, as well as providing meritless objections to simple requests, e.g., when asked for his name in Form Interrogatory No. 2.1 or his date and place of birth in Form Interrogatory No. 2.2, McKee responded that the question was “burdensome” and “unintelligible” and called for speculation. McKee must make a reasonable, good faith attempt to respond to discovery and fulfill his discovery obligations. Accordingly, Plaintiff Adriana Fadlallah’s Motion for Order Compelling Further Responses to Special Interrogatories is GRANTED, Plaintiff Adriana Fadlallah’s Motion for Order Compelling Further Responses to Form Interrogatories is GRANTED, and Plaintiff Adriana Fadlallah’s Motion for Order Compelling Further Responses to Requests for Admission is GRANTED. Defendant Robert McKee shall provide code-compliant responses to all requests identified as “at issue” in these three motions, without objections except as to attorney work product and attorney-client privilege, with an accompanying privilege log if so invoked, within thirty (30) days of entry of this order.Code of Civil Procedure section 2030.300, subdivision (d) and section 2033.290, subdivision (d), provide that “[t]he court shall impose a monetary sanction . . . against any party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel further response” to requests for admission or interrogatories “unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.” Plaintiff seeks $5,931.86 in monetary sanctions as to the special interrogatories; $7,312.61 as to the form interrogatories; and $7,189.11 as to the requests for admission. The Court finds that monetary sanctions are proper, but the Court reduces the amount to $1,020 for each motion, which represents two hours preparing the motion, one hour preparing the reply, and 0.2 hours appearing at the hearing as to each motion, at the rate of $300 per hour, and a $60 filing fee for the motion. Such sanctions are payable by Defendant Robert McKee and defense counsel to Plaintiff Adriana Fadlallah and Plaintiff’s counsel within thirty (30) days of entry of this order.Plaintiff Adriana Fadlallah’s Motion to Compel Attendance and Production at Deposition; for Monetary Sanctions Against Robert McKee and His Attorneys Ford, Walker, Haggerty & BeharPlaintiff moves the Court for an order compelling McKee to appear for his deposition in accordance with the deposition notice served on August 5, 2023. Plaintiff represents that she served a notice of deposition on McKee on that date, with the deposition to occur on September 11, 2023, but McKee objected to the deposition as being unilaterally set, while Plaintiff’s counsel advised that prior counsel had agreed on the deposition date. (Mot., Sheinbein Decl. ¶¶ 2-4, Exs. 1, 2.) The parties have met and conferred without success. (Mot., Sheinbein Decl. ¶ 5.)“If, after service of a deposition notice, a party to the action . . . , without having served a valid objection under Section 2025.410, fails to appear for examination, or to proceed with it, or to produce for inspection any document, electronically stored information, or tangible thing described in the deposition notice, the party giving the notice may move for an order compelling the deponent’s attendance and testimony, and the production for inspection of any document, electronically stored information, or tangible thing described in the deposition notice.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.450, subd. (a).) The motion “shall set forth specific facts showing good cause justifying the production for inspection of any document, electronically stored information, or tangible thing described in the deposition notice” and “shall be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration under Section 2016.040, or, when the deponent fails to attend the deposition and produce the documents, electronically stored information, or things described in the deposition notice, by a declaration stating that the petitioner has contacted the deponent to inquire about the nonappearance.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.450, subds, (b)(1), (b)(2).)It is axiomatic that Plaintiff is entitled to take McKee’s deposition, and Plaintiff has failed to appear for the deposition or provide alternative dates. Accordingly, Plaintiff Adriana Fadlallah’s Motion to Compel Attendance and Production at Deposition is GRANTED. Within ten (10) days, the parties shall meet and confer to determine a date for the deposition of Defendant Robert McKee.Code of Civil Procedure section 2025.450, subdivision (g)(1), provides that if a motion to compel a deposition is granted, the Court shall impose monetary sanctions “in favor of the party who noticed the deposition and against the deponent or the party with whom the deponent is affiliated, unless the court finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.” The Court finds that monetary sanctions are proper here, but the Court reduces the amount of monetary sanctions to $1,020, which represents two hours preparing the motion, one hour preparing the reply, and 0.2 hours appearing at the hearing, at the rate of $300 per hour, and a $60 filing fee for the motion. Such sanctions are payable by Defendant Robert McKee and defense counsel to Plaintiff Adriana Fadlallah and Plaintiff’s counsel within thirty (30) days of entry of this order.Plaintiff Adriana Fadlallah’s Motion for Order Establishing Admissions and for Monetary Sanctions Against Oliver Holt and His Attorneys Ford, Walker, Haggerty & BeharPursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 2033.280, subdivision (b), a “party may move for an order that the genuineness of any documents and the truth of any matters specified in the requests be deemed admitted, as well as for a monetary sanction.” The court “shall” grant the motion to deem requests for admission admitted “unless it finds that the party to whom the requests for admission have been directed has served, before the hearing on the motion, a proposed response to the requests for admission that is in substantial compliance with Section 2033.220.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2033.280, subd. (c).)Plaintiff served Defendant Oliver Holt dba Oliver Holt Landscape (“Holt”) with Plaintiff’s Requests for Admission on August 2, 2023. (Mot., Sheinbein Decl. ¶ 2.) On September 5, 2023, before responses were due, Plaintiff’s counsel was notified by defense counsel that Holt died on June 2, 2023. (Opp’n, Wang Decl. ¶ 5, Ex. A.) Plaintiff provides no basis for deeming requests for admission admitted against a deceased person or imposing monetary sanctions for failing to respond when the party is deceased, and Plaintiff has also failed to provide a basis for continuing to prosecute this action against Holt when it appears Plaintiff has since named the Estate of Oliver Holt as a defendant.Accordingly, Plaintiff Adriana Fadlallah’s Motion for Order Establishing Admissions and for Monetary Sanctions Against Oliver Holt and His Attorneys Ford, Walker, Haggerty & Behar is CONTINUED to a date to be determined at the hearing.   Plaintiff Adriana Fadlallah shall provide a supplemental brief of no more than five (5) pages with legal authority for (1) deeming requests for admission admitted against a deceased party or imposing monetary sanctions for failing to respond when the party is deceased, and (2) continuing to prosecute this action against Defendant Oliver Holt dba Oliver Holt Landscape when it appears Plaintiff has since named the Estate of Oliver Holt as a defendant.