 Case Number:  23STCV07931    Hearing Date:   August 13, 2024    Dept:  55 (1)   
Defendant’s Motion to Compel Compliance with
Form Interrogatories, Set One and Request for Monetary Sanctions against
Plaintiff Central Metal and/or Its Counsel of Record, Eanet, PC, in the amount of
$2,405; 
(2)   
 Defendant’s
Motion to Compel Compliance with Special Interrogatories, Set One and Request
for Monetary Sanctions against Plaintiff Central Metal and/or Its Counsel of
Record, Eanet, PC, in the amount of $3,190; and
(3)   
Defendant’s Motion to Compel Compliance with Requests
for Production, Set Two, and Request for Monetary Sanctions against Plaintiff
Central Metal and/or Its Counsel of Record, Eanet, PC, in the amount of $2,797.50
Plaintiff Jong Uk Byun is the owner of Plaintiff Central
Metal, Inc. (“Plaintiff CMI”) and together Plaintiffs filed sued against Daniel
Park and Christine Chong (“Defendants”) for their alleged fraudulent conduct in
connection with loans Plaintiffs obtained for their properties. Plaintiffs note
in the First Amended Complaint (“FAC”) that they have dismissed the remaining
defendants, but the Request for Dismissal only seeks to dismiss Plaintiff Byun’s
claims against the other defendants. Plaintiff CMI is listed as alleging claims
against these other defendants in the FAC. The Court can clear this up with
Plaintiffs’ counsel at the hearing.
Before the Court is Defendant Daniel Park’s (“Defendant Park”)
motion to compel responses to the Form Interrogatories, Set One, and request
for sanctions against Plaintiff CMI. The Court advances the hearing on Defendant
Park’s motions to compel responses to the Special Interrogatories, Set One, Requests
for Production, Set Two, and request for sanctions, to today’s date. This
tentative ruling addresses all three motions.  
Defendant Park contends that he served Plaintiff CMI with
the form interrogatories, special interrogatories, and document requests on
3/20/2024 and Plaintiff did not serve timely responses and had not served
responses by the time the motions were filed on 5/28/2024. (Izzo Decl. ISO
motions, ¶ 3.) Defendant Park contends that Plaintiff CMI has therefore waived
its objections to the discovery requests.
Plaintiff CMI contends that, notwithstanding the proofs of
service attached to the discovery requests, counsel for Plaintiff CMI did not
receive the requests. (Eanet Decl., ¶¶ 2-3.) Plaintiff’s counsel attached email
correspondence demonstrating that he immediately contacted defense counsel when
he learned of the motions to compel in early May (when the case was assigned to
a different department) to alert counsel that he had never received the requests
and requesting that he be given 30 days to respond to the discovery. (Id.,
Ex. A.) Defense counsel refused. (Id.)
Defendant maintains in his reply briefs that the metadata
from the email with the discovery requests sent to Plaintiff’s counsel “clearly
demonstrates” that Plaintiff CMI received the discovery requests in March. (Reply
Briefs, 2:10-11.) Defense counsel goes so far as to call Plaintiff’s counsel a
liar. (Id., 2:9.) Defense counsel attaches a document with the metadata,
but this document merely consists of a string of letters and numbers.  (Izzo Reply Decl. ISO motions, ¶ 4, Ex. 1.) The
Court has no way of concluding, as defense counsel contends, that this string
of letters and numbers “clearly indicates” that Plaintiff’s counsel received
the requests. (Id.) Moreover, the Court is concerned that defense counsel
would resort to calling an opposing counsel a liar in a court document. As defense
counsel surely knows, technical glitches happen. Mistakes happen. There is no
indication in the email correspondence that defense counsel considered the
possibility that Plaintiff’s counsel, for whatever reason, did not receive the
requests as he stated. There is certainly no indication that counsel, as a
professional courtesy, agreed to let bygones be bygones and give counsel an opportunity to respond to the discovery regardless of whether defense counsel was convinced
counsel had not received the discovery. This is disappointing.
The Court agrees with Plaintiff CMI that the motions are
moot because Plaintiff CMI has now served verified responses to the discovery requests.
Given the events laid out above, the Court also concludes that Plaintiff CMI is
relieved from the waiver of its objections to the discovery requests. 
Both parties seek monetary sanctions. Defendant Park’s
request is denied because the record demonstrates that Plaintiff CMI arguably
did not receive the requests and acted diligently to serve responses once
alerted to the lack of responses. Thus, Plaintiff CMI acted with substantial
justification. Plaintiff CMI’s request is denied because Defendant Park
followed the Code of Civil Procedure, which permits a motion to compel
responses when no responses have been timely received. Thus, Defendant Park
acted with substantial justification.
Counsel for both parties shall review Department 55’s Courtroom
Information page, which explains that the Court expects parties to hold an
Informal Discovery Conference with the Court prior to filing any motion to compel
further responses. 