 Case Number:  24TRCV00170    Hearing Date:   July 26, 2024    Dept:  8 Tentative Ruling¿¿ 
¿¿¿ 
HEARING DATE:                 July 26, 2024
¿¿¿ 
CASE NUMBER:                  24TRCV00170
¿¿¿ 
CASE NAME:                        Karin Friedman v.
Anthony Cavuoti, LMFT, et al. 
¿ 
MOVING PARTY:                Defendant, Carelon Behavioral Health of
California, Inc. 
¿ 
RESPONDING PARTY:       Plaintiff,
Karin Friedman 
 
TRIAL DATE:                         Not Set. 
¿¿¿ 
MOTION:¿                              (1) Demurrer to the Second
Amended Complaint, 3rd cause of action for negligent hiring
¿¿ 
Tentative Rulings:                  (1)  SUSTAINED with twenty (20) days leave to
amend. 
 
 
 
I. BACKGROUND¿¿¿ 
¿¿¿ 
A. Factual¿¿¿ 
¿¿¿ 
On January 23, 2024, Plaintiff, Karin
Friedman (“Plaintiff”) filed a Complaint against Defendants, Anthony Cavuoti,
LMFT, Carellon Behavioral Health of CA, Inc., and DOES 1 through 100. The
Complaint alleges causes of action for: (1) Professional Negligence; (2)
Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress; and (3) Negligent Hiring.  On March 5, 2024, Plaintiff filed a First
Amended Complaint (“FAC”) alleging causes of action for: (1) Professional
Negligence; (2) Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress; and (3) Negligent
Selection of an Independent Contractor. On June 14, 2024, Plaintiff filed a
Second Amended Complaint (“SAC”) alleging causes of action for: (1)
Professional Negligence; (2) Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress; and
(3) Negligent Selection of an Independent Contractor.
 
The SAC is based on Plaintiff’s allegation
that on August 18, 2023, Plaintiff called Defendant, Carelon and spoke to a
therapist regarding issues of depression and anxiety for forty-five minutes.
(SAC, ¶ 10.) Plaintiff contends that Carelon then emailed her on August 21,
2023 the information of two therapists, both of whom said they were a good
match for her, and both of whom were men. (SAC, ¶ 10.) Plaintiff notes that she
called back and asked for female therapists, and they said that none were
available in her area. (SAC, ¶ 10.) Thus, Plaintiff indicates that she
contacted Defendant Cavuoti to set up an initial meeting because he was the
closest therapist to her location. (SAC, ¶ 10.) Plaintiff notes that a few days
after, she spoke with Defendant Cavuoti to explain to him that she requires
consistent therapy due to her psychological disorder of depression and anxiety
(among other issues). (SAC, ¶ 10.) Plaintiff further notes that she told him
she was adopted and suffered abuse from her mother. (SAC, ¶ 10.) After
informing him of this, Plaintiff asserts that Defendant Cavuoti stated he was
also adopted, was the same age as her, and stated that they had a lot in
common, and that he could not wait to meet her. (SAC, ¶ 10.)
 
Plaintiff further alleges that on August
30, 2023, she had her first appointment with Defendant Cavuoti. During this initial
appointment Plaintiff asserts that Defendant Cavuoti spoke with her about his
previous weekend in Vegas and brought the conversation back to himself when he
informed Plaintiff about his own history of abuse. (SAC, ¶ 12.) Plaintiff
contends that she was upset by this information as she was also abused as a
child. (SAC, ¶ 12.) Plaintiff notes that the conversation continuously came
back to Defendant Cavuoti, and she did not get a lot of time to speak with him
about her own issues. (SAC, ¶ 14.) Moreover, Plaintiff contends that Defendant
Cavuoti abruptly and stated, “our time is over.” (SAC, ¶ 14.) Plaintiff notes that
he then opened the door and said, “I know I am not supposed to do this,” and
proceeded to hug her while pressing her close to him while making audible,
strange noises which sounded like “oh, oh.” (SAC, ¶ 14.)
 
Plaintiff alleges that after she left,
she had her partner pull over on the side of the road and she vomited. (SAC, ¶
15.) As soon as she got home, Plaintiff notes she took a shower and called her
psychiatrist’s office and told him what had happened. (SAC, ¶ 15.) Plaintiff
also notes that she called Defendant Carelon and told them what happened. (SAC,
¶ 15.) Plaintiff contends that Defendant Carelon apologized profusely and said
they would send her more referrals, to which they subsequently sent five (5) women.
(SAC, ¶ 15.) Plaintiff notes that she proceeded to speak with her psychiatrist
weekly due to the incident, who prescribed her mediation to address her nerves
in the wake of the incident. (SAC, ¶ 16.) Subsequently, Plaintiff notes that
she unintentionally left her files at Defendant Cavuoti’s office, and he forced
her into further communications to retrieve her paperwork, which caused her
additional stress, anxiety, and sleeplessness. (SAC, ¶ 16.)
 
Defendant, Carelon Behavioral Health of
California, Inc. (“Carelon”) now files a demurrer to the SAC. 
 
B. Procedural¿¿¿ 
¿¿ 
On June 14, 2024, Carelon filed a
demurrer to Plaintiff’s SAC. On July 15, 2024, Plaintiff filed an opposition
brief. On July 23, 2024, Carelon filed a reply brief. 
 
¿II. ANALYSIS¿¿  
 
A.    Legal Standard 
 
 Leave to amend is permitted
under the Code of Civil Procedure section 473, subdivision (a) and section 576.
The policy favoring amendment and resolving all matters in the same dispute is
“so strong that it is a rare case in which denial of leave to amend can be
justified. . ..” “Although courts are bound to apply a policy of great
liberality in permitting amendments to the complaint at any stage of the
proceedings, up to and including trial [citations], this policy should be
applied only ‘where no prejudice is shown to the adverse party . . ..
[citation].  A different result is indicated ‘where inexcusable delay and
probable prejudice to the opposing party’ is shown. [Citation].” (Magpali v.
Farmers Group (1996) 48 Cal.App.4th 471, 487.)  
 
A motion for leave to amend a pleading must also
comply with the procedural requirements of California Rules of Court, Rule
3.1324, which requires a supporting declaration to set forth explicitly what
allegations are to be added and where, and explicitly stating what new evidence
was discovered warranting the amendment and why the amendment was not made
earlier. The motion must also include (1) a copy of the proposed and numbered
amendment, (2) specifications by reference to pages and lines the allegations that
would be deleted and added, and (3) a declaration specifying the effect,
necessity and propriety of the amendments, date of discovery and reasons for
delay. (See Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1324, subds. (a), (b).) 
 
B.    
Discussion
 
Defendant Carelon demurs to Plaintiff’s SAC on the
grounds that it argues Plaintiff’s third cause of action for Negligent
Selection of An Independent Contractor fails to state sufficient facts to
constitute a cause of action.
 
i.                
Meet and Confer Requirement 
                       
The declaration of Kelsey
A. Hill is offered in support of Carelon’s counsel’s compliance with Code of
Civil Procedure section 430.41. Hill declares that on April 2, 2024, she sent
Plaintiff’s counsel an email identifying the defects in the FAC and asking to
meet and confer. (Declaration of Kelsey A. Hill (“Hill Decl.”), ¶ 2.) On April
10, 2024, Hill indicates that she and her colleague, Junga Kim, met and
conferred with Plaintiff’s counsel and that subsequently, the FAC was amended. 
 
On June 6, 2024, Hill
indicates that she sent Plaintiff’s counsel an email identifying and outlining
the legal arguments and bases of Carelon’s anticipated demurrer to Plaintiff’s
SAC and asking Hill to meet and confer. (Hill Decl., ¶ 7.) Hill asserts that
after receiving no response to her initial email, she sent a follow-up email to
Plaintiff’s counsel on June 10, 2024, after which Hill and Plaintiff’s counsel
exchanged emails regarding the anticipated demurrer. (Hill Decl., ¶ 9.) Hill
further notes that in her June 13, 2024 email, she explained that Carelon’s
demurrer to Plaintiff’s SAC is based on the same grounds as previously
articulated with respect to the FAC. (Hill Decl., ¶ 10.) However, despite
efforts, Hill notes that the parties were unable to reach an agreement
resolving the objections. (Hill Decl., ¶ 11.) 
 
Thus,
this Court finds that the parties have met and conferred in good faith prior to
filing the demurrer, and the meet and confer requirements have been met.
 
ii.                 
Negligent
Selection of an Independent Contractor
 
Carelon
argues that Plaintiff’s third cause of action for Negligent Selection of an
Independent Contractor fails as a matter of law. Carelon argues that
Plaintiff’s cause of action is defective for three reasons: (1) first, Plaintiff
fails to plead that at the time of hiring or prior to, Carelon
knew or should have known Defendant Cavuoti presented an undue risk of the
particular harm to which Plaintiff was allegedly exposed; (2) Plaintiff fails
to allege that Carelon owed her any duty of care in selecting (and recommending
and referring) Cavuoti as a potential therapist; and (3) even if Carelon owed a
duty of care to Plaintiff, she has not alleged that Carelon breached that duty
by selecting Defendant Cavuoti as a participating provide, or that any such
breach was a “substantial factor” in causing her injury. 
 
Generally,
a hirer of an independent contractor “is not liable for the negligence of the
contractor or its employees.” (American States Ins. Co. v. Progressive
Casualty Ins. Co. (2009) 180 Cal.App.4th 18, 28.) However, “[o]ver time,
the courts have, for policy reasons, created so many exceptions to this general
rule of nonliability that ‘the rule is now primarily important as a preamble to
the catalog of its exceptions.’ ” (Privette v. Superior Court (1993) 5
Cal.4th 689, 693.) One of these exceptions is referred to as the peculiar risk
doctrine. (Ibid.)   California
recognizes a cause of action that “an employer can be liable to a third person
for negligently hiring, supervising, or retaining an unfit employee.” (Doe
v. Capital Cities (1996) 50 Cal.App.4th 1038, 1054, citing Evan F. v.
Hughson United Methodist Church (1992) 8 Cal.App.4th 828, 836.)   The basis for such a claim is that the
employer had actual or constructive knowledge that hiring the employee created
a particular risk or hazard and that particular harm materializes. (Capital
Cities, supra, at p. 1054; Evan F., supra, at pp.
836-837.)  
In Capital
Cities, the Second District determined that the demurrer to the plaintiff’s
pleading was properly sustained because of a lack of specific factual allegations
that the casting director, who allegedly drugged, beat, and then facilitated
the gang rape of the aspiring actor, was previously known by the employer to
act in such a fashion.  Plaintiff there
had only alleged that the employer knew that the casting director used his
position to gain sexual favors, that the director personally used drugs, and that
the use of a casting couch is common in the entertainment industry.  From Capital Cities the Court finds
that when a claim such as negligent hiring or negligent selection of an
independent contractor is asserted, greater specificity in pleading the prior
knowledge of the employer or hirer is required. 
In the Second District’s analysis of the demurrer there, the panel stated:
“knowledge that [casting director] Marshall used his position of authority to
extract or to coerce sexual favors is not knowledge that he would first drug
and then attack a potential employee.”  (Capital
Cities, supra, 50 Cal.App.4th at pp. 1054–1055.)  Applying that reasoning here, plaintiff would
need to allege that Carelon knew or should have known from some prior incident,
screening process, a prior claim, or otherwise that Cavuoti would discuss his
own personal history of childhood abuse with a new patient, that he would make
veiled romantic overtures to female therapy patients, and that he would hug,
embrace, or make inappropriate physical contact with therapy patients.  No allegatison of those sort are contained in
the SAC.
Carelon cites to CACI No. 426 (“Negligent
Hiring, Supervision, or Retention of Employee”), noting that in order to
sufficiently state a claim for negligent selection of an independent
contractor, a plaintiff must show among other things that the hiring defendant “knew
or should have known that the contractor was unfit or incompetent and that the
contractor’s unfitness or incompetence created a particular risk of harm to
other people.”  (See CACI No. 426 element
2.)  While Plaintiff has alleged each
element of CACI 426 in conclusory fashion, more factual detail is required. For
example, was Carelon aware of inappropriate behavior of Defendant Cavuoti prior
to hiring him? Did other patients of Defendant Cavuoti make similar complaints
to Defendant Carelon prior to him being recommended as a therapist to
Plaintiff?  Without more detailed facts
and allegations, Plaintiff may not maintain a cause of action for Negligent
Selection of an Independent Contractor. As such, this Court SUSTAINS demurrer
with leave to amend. 
 
III. CONCLUSION 
 
For
the foregoing reasons, Defendant Carelon’s demurrer is SUSTAINED with twenty
(20) days leave to amend.   Carelon is
ordered to give notice. 
 
 
 
 
 