 Case Number:  24VECV03167    Hearing Date:   December 23, 2024    Dept:  W ALI SALEHPOUR v.
RISING ROADS RECOVERY SERVICES FOR WOMEN, LLC, et al. 
 
DEMURRER to
plaintiffS’ First Amended COMPLAINT
 
Date
of Hearing:        December 23, 2024              Trial Date:       None
set.  
Department:              W                                            Case
No.:        24VECV03167
 
Moving Party:            Defendant
Kimiko Miller
Responding Parties:  Plaintiffs
Ali and Suzanne Salehpour, individually and as personal representatives of The
Estate of Amelia Salehpour, Deceased
Meet and Confer:      Demurrer,
Bridwell Decl. ¶¶ 3, 4.
 
BACKGROUND
 
This
wrongful death action arises from alleged negligence in the care and treatment
of Amelia Salehpour, now deceased (“Decedent”). 
 
The
operative First Amended Complaint (“FAC”) alleges the following. Decedent had
struggled for years with (among other things) mental health issues and
cognitive disability, which caused her to self-medicate and abuse drugs. In May
2023, Decedent was admitted to Defendant Rising Roads Recovery Services for
Women, LLC (“Rising Roads”), a women’s only in-patient substance abuse program
in Costa Mesa, California. Rising Roads then discharged her to a subcontractor
facility, Defendant Saddleback Recovery. Five days after entering Saddleback
Recovery, Decedent was allowed to discharge herself despite being a danger to
herself and gravely disabled. Due to the defendants’ negligence, Decedent was
(among other things) trafficked from the licensed treatment facility, and
within 72 hours, beaten, raped, and killed over 60 miles away at a Los Angeles
residence.
 
On
July 2, 2024, Ali Salehpour filed this lawsuit. 
 
On
October 21, 2024, Ali Salehpour and Suzanne Salehpour (collectively,
“Plaintiffs”), individually and as the personal representatives of Decedent’s
estate, filed the FAC against 19 named defendants and Does 1 through 100, asserting
the following causes of action: 
 
1.     
Professional
Negligence;
2.     
Negligence
Per Se;
3.     
Negligence;
4.     
Violation
of Mandatory Duty - Gov. Code § 815.6;
5.     
Negligence;
6.     
Negligent
Hiring, Training, and Supervision;
7.     
Continuation
of Decedent’s Causes Of Action (Survival Action);
8.     
Wrongful
Death;
9.     
Intentional
Misrepresentation/Concealment; and
10. 
Intentional
Misrepresentation/Concealment. 
 
Named
defendant Kimiko Miller (“Miller”) now demurs the second (2nd) cause
of action for negligence per se and the sixth (6th) cause of action
for negligent hiring, training, and supervision, arguing that they fail to
state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action. Plaintiffs oppose the
demurrer. Miller has filed a reply. 
 
[Tentative]
Ruling
 
Defendant
Kimiko Miller’s Demurrer to Plaintiffs’ First Amended Complaint is OVERRULED
and SUSTAINED IN PART as follows. 
 
The
demurrer to the second cause of action for negligence per se is OVERRULED. 
 
The
demurrer to the sixth cause of action for negligent hiring, training, and
supervision is SUSTAINED, with leave to amend. 
 
Plaintiffs
are ordered to file and serve their second amended complaint within 30 days of
this ruling. 
 
ANALYSIS
 
Second Cause of Action for Negligence Per Se
 
Miller
argues that the second cause of action for negligence per se fails to state
facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action because according to case law,
“negligence per se” is an evidentiary doctrine and not an independent cause of
action. Thus, the defendant argues, the Court should sustain his demurrer to
that claim without leave to amend because Plaintiffs already has a separate
negligence or malpractice claim (i.e., the first cause of action for
professional negligence and third cause of action for negligence) against her. 
 
In
opposition, Plaintiffs argue that California courts have long stated that a
plaintiff can assert separate, alternative, and even inconsistent legal
theories of recovery in the same action, and that Miller concedes negligence
per se is an alternate means of establishing negligence liability. Plaintiffs
also argue it was efficient to assert a separate cause of action for negligence
per se given the number of defendants and factual allegations at issue in this
case. 
 
In reply,
Miller reiterates that it is clear from California case law that negligence per
se is a burden of proof and not a separate cause of action. 
 
The FAC
asserts three negligence-related claims: the first cause of action for
professional negligence, second cause of action for negligence per se, and
third cause of action for (ordinary) negligence. 
 
As Miller
argues, “‘the doctrine of negligence per se is not a separate cause of action,
but creates an evidentiary presumption that affects the standard of care in a
cause of action for negligence.’ [Citation.]” (Turner v. Seterus, Inc. (2018) 27 Cal.App.5th 516, 534
(“Turner”).)
 
Further, the
California Supreme Court has held that there is no substantive distinction
between professional negligence and ordinary negligence claims. (See Assurance Co. of
America v. Haven (1995) 32
Cal.App.4th 78, 81, fn. 3 [“The caption of the ACA complaint states it is for
general negligence and professional negligence. The text of the complaint sets
forth one cause of action for general negligence. A recent decision from the
California Supreme Court, Flowers v. Torrance Memorial Hospital Medical Center, et al. (1994) 8 Cal.4th 992, 35
Cal.Rptr.2d 685, 884 P.2d 142 [“Flowers”], concludes there is no substantive distinction between a cause of
action for professional negligence and one for ordinary negligence”]; see also
Flowers, supra, 8 Cal.4th at pp. 996–997 [“The Court of Appeal majority
erroneously premised their result on a perceived conceptual distinction between
‘ordinary’ and ‘professional’ negligence, which in their view differentiates
separate and independent theories of liability even when based on the same
facts asserted by the same plaintiff. While this distinction may be relevant
and necessary for purposes of statutory construction and application (cf. Central Pathology
Service Medical Clinic, Inc. v. Superior Court (1992) 3 Cal.4th 181, 10
Cal.Rptr.2d 208, 832 P.2d 924 [construing ‘professional negligence’ as used in
Code Civ. Proc., § 425.13] ), it is misplaced in resolving a motion for summary
judgment in which the question is whether the moving party has demonstrated or
negated negligence as a matter of law. In the latter context, the nature of the
alleged breach of duty affects only the determination of the appropriate
standard of care, which otherwise remains constant irrespective of the
terminology used to characterize it”].) 
 
However, the
California Supreme Court has also stated that “[a]lternative theories of common
law negligence and statutory liability may be pleaded in a single count [citation]
or in separate counts [citation]; or the statutory basis of liability
need not be pleaded at alll [sic], as the trial court is required to take
judicial notice of acts of the Legislature (Evid. Code, s 451, subd. (a)).” (Landeros v. Flood (1976) 17 Cal.3d 399, 413
[emphasis added].)
 
Where
plaintiffs have asserted separate theories of negligence liability as separate
causes of action, California courts have treated those theories as one cause of
action. 
 
For example,
in Turner, the California Court of Appeal
(while reviewing a trial court’s order sustaining a demurrer) “treat[ed] [the] plaintiffs’
fourth and fifth causes of action [for negligence and negligence per se,
respectively] as alleging a single cause of action for negligence.” (Turner, supra, 27 Cal.App.5th at p. 534.)
 
In this
case, rather than requiring the Plaintiffs to amend the FAC to combine the
different theories of negligence, the Court will proceed with the understanding
that the Plaintiffs are asserting alternative theories of negligence. 
 
Therefore,
Miller’s demurrer to the second cause of action for negligence per se is OVERRULED.
 
Sixth Cause of Action for Negligent Hiring, Training, and
Supervision

Miller demurs the sixth cause of action, arguing that the FAC failed to plead
(1) Miller hired the employees named in the FAC, (2) Miller knew or should have
known that the employees were unfit or incompetent, and the unfitness and
incompetence created a particular risk to others, and (3) Miller’s negligence
in supervising those employees was a substantial factor in causing the alleged harm.

 
“California
case law recognizes the theory that an employer can be liable to a third person
for negligently hiring, supervising, or retaining an unfit employee. [Citation.]”
(Doe v.
Capital Cities (1996) 50
Cal.App.4th 1038, 1054.)
 
“In
determining whether plaintiffs have stated sufficient facts to support their
claim for negligent hiring, supervision, and retention of [an employee], we ask
whether plaintiffs have alleged facts demonstrating that ‘“supervisory or
administrative personnel who allegedly knew, or should have known,”’ or had
reason to know ‘of the foreseeable risk [of a specific harm to third parties]
by [the] employee and nevertheless hired, retained, and/or inadequately
supervised that employee.’ [Citation.]” (Roe v. Hesperia Unified School District (2022) 85 Cal.App.5th 13, 28–29;
see also CACI No. 426 [stating that a plaintiff must prove (1) that the
employer hired the employee at issue, (2) the employee was/became
unfit/incompetent to perform the work for which they were hired; (3) the
employer knew or should have know the employee was/became unfit/incompetent and
the unfitness/incompetence created a particular risk to others; (4) the
employee’s unfitness/incompetence/other particular risk harmed the plaintiff,
and (5) the employer’s negligence in hiring/supervising/retaining the employee
was a substantial factor in causing the plaintiff’s harm].)
 
The Court
agrees with Miller that the sixth cause of action fails to state a claim
against her because it fails to allege that Miller was the “employer” of any
employee who was allegedly incompetent, unfit, or posed a particular risk to
the Decedent. 
 
In their
opposition, Plaintiffs argue the FAC has pleaded an employment relationship by
pleading that “Miller was the Clinical Director of Rising Roads and supervised
certain employees at Rising Roads, including Llysa Lott, an Associate Marriage
and Family Therapist.  FAC, ¶¶ 25, 155-56.” (Opposition, p. 13:22-24.) 
 
However, California courts have held a
manager or supervisor generally cannot be held liable for negligently
supervising an employee, absent a special protective relationship between the
supervisor and the plaintiff. (See C.A. v. William S. Hart Union High School
Dist. (2012) 53 Cal.4th 861, 869-879 [finding school personnel owe duty of
care to students based on the “special relationship” between school district
and the district's pupils]; de Villers v. County of San Diego (2007) 156
Cal.App.4th 238, 249 [finding no special protective relationship and thus no
liability under section 815.2].)
 
Instead, “C.A. explained that ‘a
school district and its employees have a special relationship with the district’s
pupils, a relationship arising from the mandatory character of school
attendance and the comprehensive control over students exercised by school
personnel, “analogous in many ways to the relationship between parents and
their children.” [Citations.]’ (C.A., supra, 53 Cal.4th at p.
869, 138 Cal.Rptr.3d 1, 270 P.3d 699.) [That] special relationship imposes ‘obligations
beyond what each person generally owes others under Civil Code section 1714,’
including ‘the duty to use reasonable measures to protect students from
foreseeable injury at the hands of third parties acting negligently or
intentionally.’ [Citation.]” (Thomas v. Regents of University of California
(2023) 97 Cal.App.5th 587, 624 (“Thomas”).)
 
Here, Plaintiffs have not argued or
alleged that Miller had any special relationship with Decedent such that Miller
can be held directly liable for the alleged negligent hiring, training, or
supervision of Rising Roads employees
that allegedly harmed Decedent even if Miller was not those employees’ employer.

 
Further,
even if the FAC has alleged that Miller had a special relationship with the Decedent,
that does not automatically mean that Miller had the kind of duty that Plaintiffs
seek to impose. 
 
The Court
would have to analyze the factors articulated in one California Supreme Court
case, Rowland
v. Christian (1968) 69
Cal.2d 108 (“Rowland”), to determine the existence and scope of Miller’s duty. (See Brown v. USA
Taekwondo (2021) 11
Cal.5th 204, 218-219 (“Brown”) [noting that cases that found a special relationship existed went on
to analyze the factors in Rowland to determine the existence and scope of duty]; Thomas, supra, 97 Cal.App.5th at p. 625 [noting that C.A. and another case “analyzed the Rowland factors in determining the scope
of the duty arising from the school-student special relationship ...”].) 
 
The Rowland factors are “‘[1] the
foreseeability of harm to the plaintiff, [2] the degree of certainty that the
plaintiff suffered injury, [3] the closeness of the connection between the
defendant’s conduct and the injury suffered, [4] the moral blame attached to
the defendant’s conduct, [5] the policy of preventing future harm, the extent
of the burden to the defendant and consequences to the community of imposing a
duty to exercise care with resulting liability for breach, and [6] the
availability, cost, and prevalence of insurance for the risk involved.” (Brown, supra, 11 Cal.5th at p. 217.)
 
Here, Plaintiffs
have neither discussed the Rowland factors in their opposition, nor cited any law that shows the FAC has
stated facts sufficient to constitute a negligent
hiring, training, or supervision claim against Miller.
 
For those reasons, Miller’s demurrer to
the sixth cause of action for negligent hiring, training, and supervision is
SUSTAINED, with leave to amend. 