 Case Number:  24VECV04071    Hearing Date:   December 23, 2024    Dept:  W barrera v. caledron, et al.
 
MOTION to STRIKE (NOT ANTI-SLAPP)
 
Date of Hearing:          December 23, 2024                Trial Date:       None
set
Department:               W                                             Case
No.:         24VECV04071
 
Moving Party:             Defendants
Krista Castro and Pawparazzi Dogs, LLC
Responding Party:       Plaintiff Emeterio Marroquin Barrera
 
BACKGROUND
 
On August 26, 2024, Plaintiff Emeterio
Marroquin Barrera (“Plaintiff”) filed a Complaint against Defendants Sherrie
Calderon (“Calderon”), Lovinjeet Singh (“Singh”), Lily Thomas (“Thomas”),
Krista Castro (“Castro”), Giselles Legacy (“Legacy”), Pawparazzi Dogs LLC
(“PDL”) (collectively, “Defendants”), and DOES 1 to 5o, inclusive for: (1)
Strict Liability; (2) Assault and Battery; (3) Intentional Infliction of
Emotional Distress; and (4) Negligence. 
 
The Complaint alleges on August 26,
2023, at approximately 2:30 p.m., Plaintiff was attacked by an unleashed,
uncollared Pitbull dog named Koda, which resulted in severe and permanent
injuries. (Compl., ¶1.) Plaintiff further alleges Defendants Calderon and
Legacy were the owners of Koda, Defendant Singh the dog handler or custodian
responsible for Koda, Defendant Thomas the coordinator and transporter
responsible for Koda, and Defendant Castro the owner of Pawparazzi, a boarding
facility responsible for Koda at the time of the incident. (Id. at
¶¶2-5.)
 
On October 18, 2024, Plaintiff filed an
Amendment to Complaint identifying BAW Foundation Capones Coalition, Inc. as
Doe 1. 
 
On November 18, 2024, Defendants Castro
and Pawparazzi (“Moving Parties”) filed the instant Motion to Strike without
Demurrer. On December 12, 2024, Plaintiff filed an Opposition. On December 16,
2024, Moving Parties filed a Reply. 
 
[Tentative] Ruling
 
Defendants Krista Castro and Pawparazzi
Dogs, LLC’s Motion to Strike is DENIED.
 
Defendants must file an Answer within
20 days of this order. 
 
LEGAL STANDARD
 
“Any party, within the time allowed to respond to a pleading
may serve and file a notice of motion to strike the whole or any part thereof,
but this time limitation shall not apply to motions specified in subdivision
(e).” (Code Civ. Proc., § 435, subd. (b)(1).)¿¿ 
 
“The court may, upon a motion made pursuant to Section 435,
or at any time in its discretion, and upon terms it deems proper: (a) Strike
out any irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted in any pleading.” (Code
Civ. Proc., § 436, subd. (a).)¿
 
MEET AND CONFER 
 
Prior to filing a motion to strike, moving party is required
to meet and confer in person, by telephone, or by video-conference with the
party who filed the pleading that is subject to the motion to strike for the
purposes of determining whether an agreement can be reached through a filing of
an amended pleading that would resolve the objections to be raised in the
motion to strike. (Code Civ. Proc., § 435.5.)¿¿¿
 
Here, Moving Parties’ counsel attests to attempts to meet
and confer prior to the filing of the instant motion. (McIntyre Decl., ¶2, Ex.
A.) However, Moving Parties’ counsel avers Plaintiff’s counsel never responded
to the meet and confer letter or returned her phone call. (Id. at ¶73-5,
Ex. B.) As such, the parties did not meet and confer per the statutory
requirement before the filing of this present motion. 
 
Nonetheless, the Court will exercise its discretion and rule
on the merits below. 
 
ANALYSIS
 
Defendants Krista Castro and Pawparazzi Dogs LLC
(hereinafter, “Moving Parties”) move to strike paragraphs 4 (lines 13-17), 34
(line 9), 37 (lines 3-9), 46 (lines 4-11), 56 (lines 26 through 5), and the
prayer for relief at lines 15-18, which make reference to punitive damages and
exemplary damages. 
 
Moving Parties argue the Complaint does not plead facts
sufficient enough to support a request for punitive damages. 
 
To state a claim for punitive
damages under Civil Code section 3294, a plaintiff must allege specific facts
showing that the¿defendant has been guilty of malice, oppression or fraud. Smith
v. Superior Court (1992) 10 Cal. App. 4th 1033, 1042. The basis for
punitive damages must be pled with specificity; conclusory allegations devoid
of any factual assertions are insufficient. Id. A motion to strike may
lie where the facts alleged, if proven, would not support a finding that the
defendant acted with malice, fraud or oppression. (Turman v. Turning Point
of Central California (2010) 191 Cal. App. 4th 53, 63.¿) However,
“Subdivision (b) thus authorizes the imposition of punitive damages on an
employer in three situations: (1) when an employee was guilty of oppression,
fraud or malice, and the employer with advance knowledge of the unfitness of
the employee employed him or her with a conscious disregard of the rights or
safety of others, (2) when an employee was guilty of oppression, fraud or
malice, and the employer authorized or ratified the wrongful conduct, or (3)
when the employer was itself guilty of the oppression, fraud or malice.” (Weeks
v. Baker & McKenzie (1998) 63 Cal.App.4th 1128, 1151.)¿ 
 
“Malice” is defined in section
3294(c)(1) as “conduct which is intended by the defendant to cause injury” or
“despicable conduct which is carried on by the defendant with a willful and
conscious disregard of the rights or safety of others.” “Oppression” is defined
in section 3294(c)(2) as “despicable conduct subjecting a person to cruel and
unjust hardship in conscious disregard of that person’s rights.” The term
“despicable” has been defined in the case law as actions that are “base,”
“vile,” or “contemptible.” Shade Foods, Inc. v. Innovative Products Sales
& Marketing, Inc. (2000) 78 Cal. App. 4th 847, 891.¿¿“Fraud” is defined
in section 3294(c)(3) as “an intentional misrepresentation, deceit, or
concealment of a material fact known to the defendant with the intention on the
part of the defendant of thereby depriving a person of property or legal rights
or otherwise causing injury.”¿¿ 
 
To prove that a defendant acted
with “willful and conscious disregard of the rights or safety of others,” it is
not enough to prove negligence, gross negligence or even recklessness. Dawes
v. Superior Court (1980) 111 Cal. App. 3d 82, 87. Rather, a plaintiff must
allege facts demonstrating that “the defendant acted in such an outrageous and
reprehensible manner that the jury could infer that he [or she] knowingly
disregarded the substantial certainty of injury to others.” (Id. at 90).
Further, the allegations must be sufficient for a reasonable jury to conclude
that Defendant’s conduct was “despicable” defined as “base, vile or
contemptible.” College Hospital Inc. v. Superior Court (1994) 8 Cal. 4th
704, 725.¿ 
 
The Complaint alleges on August 26,
2023, at approximately 2:30 p.m., “Plaintiff was lawfully exercising at Warner Park,
a public park, located in the County of Los Angeles, State of California.
Plaintiff was leaving the park and walking to his car when he was suddenly
attacked by an unleashed, uncollared Pit bull dog named “Koda”. The unprovoked
attack continued for several minutes during which time “Koda” aggressively and
savagely bit Plaintiff multiple times, locked onto his wrist and ultimately
knocked Plaintiff to the ground where the dog continued to attack attempting to
reach Plaintiff’s neck area and go for in for the kill. Plaintiff fought off
the dog for several minutes until finally a bystander jumped in to try and stop
the attack and then he was attacked.” (Compl., ¶¶1, 15.) 
 
The Complaint further alleges Defendant
Castro is the owner of Defendant Pawparazzi, a boarding facility responsible
for Koda at the time of the incident. (Id. at ¶5.)
 
The Complaint also alleges “Defendants
CALDERON, THOMAS, CASTRO, GISELLES LEGACY and PAWPARAZZI DOGS LLC, knew that on
August 15, 2022, “Koda” was surrendered to a shelter because his family was
afraid of him. When the family brought “Koda” to the shelter it was documented
by the shelter that “Koda” was barking, snarling, and trying to bite through
the bars of the crate he was in. Defendants CALDERON, THOMAS, CASTRO, GISELLES
LEGACY and PAWPARAZZI DOGS LLC knew that “Koda” was displaying “resource
guarding” behavior prior to entrusting “Koda” to Defendant SINGH, to take the
dog on a field trip to Warner Park on the date of the incident.” (Id. at ¶18.)
 
The Complaint also alleges “On or
about April 8, 2023, prior to the attack on Plaintiff, “Koda’s” previous owners
Joseline Moran and Marley Real attempted to get “Koda” off a victim of a
previous attack and when they did “Koda” bit his owner on the right upper leg.
As a result, the previous owner surrendered “Koda” to a shelter. On or about
July 18, 2023, “Koda” was placed on the Red Alert List.” (Id. at ¶19.)
 
The Complaint further alleges “On
July 21, 2023, Defendants CALDERON, THOMAS and GISELLES LEGACY rescued “Koda”
from LA Animal Services through the New Hope program. Defendants CALDERON,
THOMAS, CASTRO, GISELLES LEGACY and
PAWPARAZZI DOGS LLC, were made
aware that “Koda” had a previous bite history, prior attacks on persons and despite being made aware of the violent
past, they assumed responsibility for “Koda”. Defendants CASTRO and PAWPARAZZI
DOGS LLC., knew that “Koda” was displaying “resource guarding” behavior prior
to the attack on Plaintiff. Defendant SHERRIE CALDERON stated to investigator
Anderson that all paperwork from the shelter “Koda” was rescued from are
supposed to be handover to the boarding facility, Defendants CASTRO and
PAWPARAZZI DOGS LLC.” (Id. at ¶20.)
 
The Court finds that Plaintiff’s
Complaint states specific facts sufficient to support a claim for punitive
damages. Here, the Complaint alleges that Moving Parties were aware of Koda’s
violent propensities including his previous bite and attack history.
Furthermore, the Complaint alleges that Moving Parties assumed responsibility
for Koda despite having this knowledge. Moreover, the Complaint alleges that
Defendant Singh who was supposed to be watching Koda on the day of the incident
is an agent of the Moving Parties and allowed Koda to be unleashed and
uncollared in conscious disregard to Plaintiff’s rights. (See Compl., ¶11.) As
such, a reasonable jury could infer that Defendant Singh was within the scope of
her employment with Moving Parties when the attack occurred. 
 
CONCLUSION
 
Based on the
foregoing, Defendants Krista Castro and Pawparazzi Dogs, LLC’s Motion
to Strike is DENIED. 
 
Defendants must file an Answer within
20 days of this order.