  Case Number:  19VECV01130    Hearing Date:   December 23, 2024    Dept:  W Kurtz v. un, et al.
 
MOTION to COMPEL FURTHER RESPONSES 
 
Date of Hearing:          December 23, 2024                Trial Date:       February
10, 2025
Department:               W                                             Case
No.:         19VECV01130
 
Moving Party:             Plaintiffs
Gary Kurtz, Esq. and Law Office of Gary Kurtz, Inc. 
Responding Party:       Defendant Ruth Soto
 
BACKGROUND
 
On August 6, 2019, Plaintiffs Gary
Kurtz, Esq. (“Kurtz”) and Law Office of Gary Kurtz, Inc. f/k/a as Law Office of
Gary Kurtz, a PLC (“Law Office”) (collectively, “Plaintiffs”) filed a Complaint
against Defendant ABBA Bail Bonds, Inc. (“ABBA”), Jane Un (“Un”), Ruth Soto
(“Soto”), International Capital Alliance, Inc. (“ICA”) (collectively,
“Defendants”), and DOES 1 to 25, inclusive for: two counts of Breach of Written
Contract; two counts of Common Count – Account Stated; and two counts of
Quantum Meruit. 
 
The Complaint alleges Plaintiffs
entered into a written contract with Defendants to perform legal services
pursuant to a hybrid billing arrangement at a billing rate, which was amended
to increase over time. (Compl., ¶¶10, 14, 17, 21, 26, 29.) Defendants breached
the written contract by failing to make payments as required by the engagement
agreement. (Id. at ¶¶12-13.)
 
On May 23, 2022, this Court vacated
default judgment entered against Defendant Soto. 
 
On October 20, 2022, this Court entered
default judgment against Defendants ABBA, Un, and ICA jointly and severally for
$176,708.07. 
 
On September 23, 2024, Defendant Soto
filed an Answer to Complaint. 
 
On November 22, 2024, Plaintiffs filed
the instant Motion to Compel Further Responses to Special Interrogatories and
Requests for Production of Documents. On December 10, 2024, Defendant Soto filed
an Opposition. On December 13, 2024, Plaintiffs filed a Reply. 
 
[Tentative] Ruling
 
Plaintiffs Gary Kurtz, Esq. and Law
Office of Gary Kurtz, Inc. Motion to Compel Further Responses to Special
Interrogatories and Requests for Production of Documents is GRANTED.
 
Defendant Ruth Soto is ordered to
provided verified, objection-free responses and responsive documents to Special
Interrogatories Nos. 1-3 and Request for Production of Documents Nos. 1-3
within 30 days of this order. 
 
Plaintiffs’ request for sanctions is GRANTED
in the amount of $2,560.00 and payable by Defendant Soto and her counsel of
record within 30 days of this order. 
 
Defendant Soto’s request for
sanctions is DENIED. 
 
LEGAL
STANDARD
 
Parties may move for a further response to interrogatories and
requests for production of documents where an answer to the requests are evasive
or incomplete or where an objection is without merit or too general. (Code Civ.
Proc., §§ 2030.300, subd. (a); 2031.310, subd. (a).) 
 
Notice of the motions must be given within 45 days of
service of the verified response, otherwise, the propounding party waives any
right to compel a further response. (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 2030.300, subd. (c);
2031.310, subd. (c).) 
 
Finally, Cal. Rules of Court, Rule 3.1345 requires that all
motions or responses involving further discovery contain a separate statement
with the text of each request, the response, and a statement of factual and
legal reasons for compelling further responses. (Cal. Rules of Court, Rule
3.1345, subd. (a)(3)).¿¿
 
PRELIMINARY ISSUES
 
As the preliminary matter, the Court notes that Plaintiff
improperly combined its motion to compel further special interrogatories and
request for production of documents. Multiple motions cannot be combined into a
single filing.¿¿(See¿Govt. Code¿§ 70617(a)(4) (setting forth the required
filing fee for each motion, application, or any other paper or request
requiring a hearing);¿see¿also¿Weil & Brown, Civil Procedure Before Trial,
[8:1140.1] at 8F-60 (The Rutter Group 2011)¿(“Motions to compel compliance with
separate discovery requests ordinarily should be filed separately.”) Similarly,
improperly combines the requests into one separate statement. Plaintiff is
advised to comply with the filing requirements moving forward. 
 
Likewise, Defendant Soto contends she was not served with
the instant motion until two days before her opposition was due. (Chopuryan
Decl., ¶¶2-4.) Contrarily, Plaintiffs have submitted evidence suggesting
Defendant Soto was electronically served with the motion via an automatic
eFiling service Plaintiffs use. (Kurtz Reply Decl., ¶12.)
 
Nonetheless, the Court will exercise its discretion and rule
on the merits below.
 
MEET AND CONFER 
 
A motion to compel further responses must be accompanied by
a meet and confer declaration. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.300(b).)
 
Here, Plaintiff Kurtz attests to meet and confer efforts
with Defendant Soto prior to the filing of this instant motion. (Kurtz Decl.,
¶8, Ex. 6.) Plaintiff Kurtz further avers that Defendant Soto agreed to provide
supplemental responses and failed to follow through. (Id. at ¶9.)
 
Therefore, Plaintiffs have fulfilled the meet and confer
requirement. 
 
ANALYSIS
 
Plaintiffs Gary Kurtz, Esq. (“Kurtz”) and Law Office of Gary
Kurtz, Inc. f/k/a as Law Office of Gary Kurtz, a PLC (“Law Office”)
(collectively, “Plaintiffs”) move to
compel further Defendant Ruth Soto’s (“Soto”) responses to Special
Interrogatories (“SROG”) Nos. 1-3 and Request for Production (“RFP”) Nos. 1-3 propounded
on August 30, 2024. (Kurtz Decl., ¶¶2-5, Exs. 1-4.)
 
SROG NO. 1: To the best of your recollection state or
approximate the unpaid balance of your loan, originally obtained from Argent
Mortgage Company LLC but subsequently obtained by Wells Fargo Bank that was the
subject of the action entitled Ruth Soto v. Wells Fargo Ban, et al, Riverside
Superior Court, Case No. RIC 1503961 (“THE WELLS FARGO LOAN”) as of the last date
you made a payment on said loan.
 
SROG NO. 2: To the best
of your recollection state or approximate the unpaid balance of THE WELLS FARGO
LOAN as of the date closest to August 19, 2016 that you recall.
 
SROG NO. 3: To the best
of your recollection state or approximate the amount of the loan that was forgiven
as the settlement of the action entitled Ruth Soto v. Wells Fargo Ban, et al,
Riverside Superior Court, Case No. RIC 1503961.
 
RFP NO. 1: Any and all
DOCUMENTS relating to THE WELLS FARGO LOAN.
 
RFP NO. 2: Any and all
DOCUMENTS relating to the unpaid balance of THE WELLS FARGO LOAN, as of the
date closest to August 19, 2016.
 
RFP NO. 3: Any and all
DOCUMENTS relating to the amount of THE WELLS FARGO LOAN. That was forgiven as
the settlement of the action entitled Ruth Soto v. Wells Fargo Ban, et al, Riverside
Superior Court, Case No. RIC 1503961.
 
Here, Plaintiffs seek information
and responsive documents regarding the amount of the unpaid balance on
Defendant Soto’s loan that was subject to the action entitled Ruth Soto v.
Wells Fargo Ban, et al., Riverside Superior Court, Case No. RIC 1503961
(“Underlying Action”). In response to these discovery requests, Defendant Soto objected
on the basis of irrelevancy, attorney work-product privilege, and argues the
information is equally available to Plaintiffs. 
 
 
Relevancy

 
Specifically, Defendant Soto
argues these requests are not relevant to the subject matter at issue in this
case and not reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible
evidence because Plaintiffs unjustifiably withdrew as legal counsel in the
Underlying Action. In reply, Plaintiffs assert there was good cause to withdraw
as counsel for Defendant Soto in the Underlying Action. 
 
“No California court has
addressed the question of the right of an attorney on a contingent fee contract
to assert a lien upon amounts recovered by a former client when the attorney
discharges the client and is unable to point to some action of the client which
provided the attorney with justifiable cause for abandonment of the case. As a
general rule, other jurisdictions have allowed recovery for services already
rendered only when the attorney has justifiable cause for withdrawing from the
case. They have denied any compensation when the attorney has voluntarily
abandoned the case without good cause. [Citation].”(Hensel v. Cohen (1984) 155
Cal.App.3d 563, 567.)
 
Plaintiffs contend Defendant Soto
agreed to a hybrid fee agreement in the Underlying Action and failed to keep
with the hourly payment obligation. Defendant Soto does not contest this
argument in her opposition. Thus, Plaintiffs had good cause to withdraw from
the Underlying Action as legal counsel for Defendant Soto. Furthermore, the
parties do not dispute payment for said legal representation in the Underlying
Action is at issue in this present lawsuit. As such, information and responsive
documents pertaining to the unpaid balance on Defendant Soto’s loan that was
the subject of the Underlying Action, wherein Plaintiffs allegedly executed a
settlement agreement on Defendant Soto’s behalf on a contingency basis are
relevant to the case at bar. 
 
Attorney
Work-Product Privilege
 
Likewise, Defendant Soto contends
the information and documents requested are protected by attorney work-product
privilege because Plaintiffs were no longer her counsel of record when the
Underlying Action was settled in 2019. On the other hand, Plaintiffs assert in
their reply brief that they were able to settle a claim that resulted in
Defendant Soto being excused from paying off a majority of her first deed of
trust prior to the withdrawal. To the extent this statement is true, documents
related to that particular settled claim would not constitute the attorney
work-product of subsequent counsel in the Underlying Action. 
 
Equally
Available 
 
Finally, Defendant Soto contends
Plaintiffs possessed copies of the relevant records concerning the Wells Fargo
Loan, which he was obligated to maintain as her counsel of record from January
2016 through November 2017. Defendant Soto also contends she does not have the
documents Plaintiffs are requesting. However, Plaintiffs contend they returned
all file materials when the representation relationship ended and the amount of
forgiveness is only calculable with the documents that were returned to
Defendant Soto. 
 
Code of Civil Procedure Section
2030.220 states:
 
“(a) Each answer in a response to
interrogatories shall be as complete and straightforward as the information
reasonably available to the responding party permits.
 
(b) If an interrogatory cannot be
answered completely, it shall be answered to the extent possible.
 
(c) If the responding party does
not have personal knowledge sufficient to respond fully to an interrogatory,
that party shall so state, but shall make a reasonable and good faith effort to
obtain the information by inquiry to other natural persons or organizations,
except where the information is equally available to the propounding party.”
 
The Court notes that both parties
assert the documents responsive to the RFPs are not in either of their
possession, custody, or control. If this is Defendant Soto’s contention, her
responses must reflect that. As to the interrogatories, Plaintiffs ask whether
Defendant Soto has knowledge and recollection of the information sought, which
is not something that would reasonably be equally available to Plaintiffs. 
 
Therefore, further responses to
the SROGs and RFPs are warranted. 
 
Request
for Sanctions
 
Where the court grants a motion
to compel further responses, sanctions shall be imposed against the party who
unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel, unless the party acted with
substantial justification or the sanction would otherwise be unjust. (Code Civ.
Proc., §§ 2030.300, subd. (d); 2031.310, subd. (h).)
 
Here, Plaintiffs seek $3,260.00
in monetary sanctions at an hourly rate of $500.00/hr plus $60.00 filing fees.  The court finds that defendant’s objections
were substantially justified, although ultimately overruled, and that sanctions
are inappropriate in this case. 
 
CONCLUSION
 
Based on the
foregoing, Plaintiffs Gary Kurtz, Esq. and Law Office of Gary Kurtz,
Inc. Motion to Compel Further Responses to Special Interrogatories and Requests
for Production of Documents is GRANTED.
 
Defendant Ruth Soto is ordered to
provided verified, objection-free responses and responsive documents to Special
Interrogatories Nos. 1-3 and Request for Production of Documents Nos. 1-3
within 30 days of this order. 
 
The parties’ cross requests for
sanctions are denied.   
 
 
 
 