 Case Number:  24VECV00095    Hearing Date:   December 23, 2024    Dept:  W Darold m shirwo v. The county of
Los Angeles, et al.
 
Motion for leave to file Second Amended Complaint
 
Date of Hearing:          12-23-2024                              Trial
Date:       TBD
Department:               W                                             Case
No.:         24VECV00095
 
Moving Party:             DAROLD
M SHIRWO (Plaintiff)
Responding Party:       none, unopposed.
 
BACKGROUND
 
On
January 8, 2024, Plaintiff Darold M. Shirwo (Plaintiff) filed suit against the
County of Los Angeles (County) and Emily J. Cole (Cole; collectively
Defendants) arising out of a fee dispute. Plaintiff is a criminal defense
attorney as well as a bar panel attorney for Los Angeles. Plaintiff alleged
Cole improperly reduced a fee payment for work done in violation of policies
and procedures established by the County to fulfil fee payment request pursuant
to Penal Code section 987.2.
 
Plaintiff
amended the complaint on March 4, 2024. Plaintiff now seeks permission to file
a second amended complaint.
 
[Tentative] Ruling
 
The motion for leave to file a
second amended complaint is DENIED without prejudice.
 
LEGAL
STANDARD
 
The Court may, in the furtherance of
justice, and upon any terms as may be proper, allow a party to amend any
pleading.  (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 473,
576.)  There is “a strong policy in favor
of liberal allowance of amendments.” (Mesler v. Bragg Management Co.
(1985) 39 Cal.3d 290, 296.) Thus, the court generally grants requests for leave
to amend unless the party seeking to amend has been dilatory in bringing the
proposed amendment before the Court, and the delay in seeking leave to amend
will cause prejudice to the opposing party. (Hirsa v. Superior Court
(1981) 118 Cal.App.3d 486, 490.)  
 
The Rules of Court require that a
motion to amend the pleading before trial must
 
(1)  
Include a copy of the proposed
amendment or amended pleading. . .
(2)  
State what allegations in the previous
pleading are proposed to be deleted, if any, and where by page, paragraph, and
line, the deleted allegations are located; and
(3)  
State what allegations are proposed to
be added to the previous pleading, if any, and where, by page paragraph, and
line number, the additional allegations are located.
 
(Rules of Ct., Rule 3.1324, subd. (a).) Additionally, the
moving party must include a supporting declaration stating the facts of the
amendment, why the amendment is necessary and proper, when facts giving rise to
the amended allegations were discovered, and the reason why the request for
amendment was not made earlier. (Rules of Ct., Rule 3.1324, subd. (b).)
 
ANALYSIS
 
Procedural
Deficiencies
 
Here, Plaintiff has not complied with
the requirements of the Rules of Court. Plaintiff has not attached the proposed
amended pleading. Plaintiff has not stated what allegations are being added or
deleted. Plaintiff has included a declaration from counsel, but the declaration
lacks adequate detail regarding the amendment. Counsel does not state the facts
of the amendment, why it is proper, when the facts were discovered and why the
amendment was not made earlier. The only context for amendment which Counsel
gives is his statement that while having ongoing discussions with Defendants’
counsel “it appears that the first amended Complaint needs to be amended to
conform to the facts that will be presented during the anticipate litigation
herein.” (Declaration of Darold M. Shirow, ¶3.) This is facially deficient. 
 
The motion is denied without prejudice.
 
CONCLUSION
 
The motion
for leave to file a second amended complaint is denied without prejudice on
procedural grounds. Plaintiff has not complied with Rules of Court, Rule
3.1324.