 Case Number:  23STCV01612    Hearing Date:   March 28, 2024    Dept:  71 Superior
Court of California
County
of Los Angeles
 
DEPARTMENT 71
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



ADAN
  GOMEZ-RIVERA,  
  
         vs.
 
ADB GLOBAL
  TRADE LLC, et al.


 Case No.: 
  23STCV01612
 
 
 
 Hearing Date:  March 28, 2024



 
Defendant Caesarstone Ltd.’s
motion to withdraw its appearance and have its motion to quash service of
summons is granted.
Specially Appearing Defendant
Caesarstone Ltd.’s motion to quash service of summons is granted.
Specially Appearing Defendant
Stylenquaza LLC’s motion to quash service of summons is denied.
Specially
Appearing Defendant Cosentino Group’s motion to quash service of summons is continued
to June 5, 2024, to allow Plaintiff to conduct jurisdictional discovery.  Cosentino Group is ordered to produce Jorge
Cuervo Vela for deposition regarding jurisdictional issues.  
Specially
Appearing Defendant ADB Global Trade LLC’s motion to quash service of summons
is denied.
 
Defendant Caesarstone Ltd. (“Caesarstone”) (“Defendant”) moves for
this Court to allow its counsel, Lydecker, to withdraw its notice of appearance
made on behalf of Caesarstone on January 16, 2024, on the grounds the
appearance was entered due to inadvertence and/or mistake.  (Notice Withdraw, pg. 2; C.C.P. §473(b).)
Specially Appearing Defendant Caesarstone (“Specially Appearing
Defendant”) moves to quash Plaintiff Adan Gomez-Rivera’s (“Gomez-Rivera”)
(“Plaintiff”) service of summons upon it on the grounds this Court lacks
personal jurisdiction over it as an Israeli company headquartered in
Israel.  (Notice Quash Caesarstone, pgs.
2-3; C.C.P. §418.10(a)(1).)
Specially Appearing Defendant Stylenquaza LLC (“Stylenquaza”)
(“Specially Appearing Defendant”) moves to quash Plaintiff’s service of summons
upon it on for improper service and lack of personal jurisdiction.  (Notice Quash Stylenquaza, pg. 2; C.C.P.
§418.10(a)(1).)
Specially Appearing Defendant Cosentino Group, S.A. (“Cosentino
Group”) (“Specially Appearing Defendant”) moves to quash Plaintiff’s service of
summons upon it on the grounds that (1) Plaintiff did not properly serve
Cosentino Group; and (2) even if Cosentino Group was properly served, this
Court lacks personal jurisdiction over Cosentino Group.  (Notice Quash Cosentino, pg. 2; C.C.P.
§418.10(a)(1).)
Specially Appearing Defendant ADB Global Trade LLC dba Classic
Stone, LLC (“ADB”) (“Specially Appearing Defendant”) moves to quash Plaintiff’s
service of summons upon it on the grounds that this Court does not have
personal jurisdiction, both general jurisdiction and specific jurisdiction,
over ADB as to the claims brought by Plaintiff, because  ADB is an Illinois corporation that has its
principal place of business in Northbrook, Illinois and Plaintiff’s operative
Second Amended Complaint (“SAC”) wholly fails to allege any facts regarding
Plaintiff’s connection to ADB products in California, or any other information
relating to ADB and California. (Notice Quash ADB, pgs. 1-2; C.C.P.
§418.10(a)(1); BNSF Railway Co. v. Tyrrell (2017) 581 U.S. 402; Bristol-Myers
Squibb Co. v. Superior Court (2017) 582 U.S. 255.)
 
1.     Caesarstone’s Motion to Withdraw Appearance
Procedural
History
On
November 9, 2023, Plaintiff served Caesarstone with its Summons and Amendment
to Complaint under the Hague Convention in Israel.  (Decl. of Brice ¶4, Exh. A.)
On
January 16, 2024, Caesarstone filed a notice of appearance.
On
February 2, 2024, Caesarstone filed the instant motion.  On March 15, 2024, Plaintiff filed his
opposition.[1]  On March 20, 2024, Caesarstone filed its
reply.
 
Legal
Standard
“The
court may, upon any terms as may be just, relieve a party or his or her legal
representative from a judgment, dismissal, order, or other proceeding taken
against him or her through his or her mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or
excusable neglect.”  (C.C.P. §473(b).)  “Application for this relief . . . shall be
made within a reasonable time, in no case exceeding six months, after the
judgment, dismissal, order, or proceeding was taken.”  (Id.)
C.C.P.
§473(b) consists of two distinct parts: “a discretionary provision, which
applies permissively, and a mandatory provision, which applies as of right.” (Minick
v. City of Petaluma (2016) 3 Cal.App.5th 15, 25-26; Bailey v. Citibank,
N.A. (2021) 66 Cal.App.5th 335, 348.)
 
Discussion
Caesarstone’s
motion is granted. The context of the
application of C.C.P. §473(b) to “other proceeding taken against him” language
has been found applicable in other situations and it therefore is instructive
and applies in this case.  (Zellerino
v. Brown (1991) 235 Cal. App. 3d 1097, 1102-1103; see also Wilson
v. Barry (1951) 102 Cal. App. 2d 778.)
Caesarstone’s
counsel declares it had previously been retained to represent Caesarstone USA,
a separate and distinct legal entity from Caesarstone Ltd, it had not been
retained to represent Caesarstone Ltd., and Lydecker was not aware of
Plaintiffs’ intent to include Caesarstone, Ltd. as a named Defendant prior to
his amendment of the pleading.  (Decl. of
Brice ¶5.)  Caesarstone’s counsel
declares that prior to Lydecker’s retention, Tara Pehush, outside counsel for
Caesarstone Ltd., was granted an extension of time on behalf of Caesarstone
Ltd. to retain adequate counsel to evaluate service of process and determine an
appropriate response on its behalf to the Amended Complaint.  (Decl. of Brice ¶5.)  
Caesarstone’s
counsel declares that On January 16, 2024, in an attempt to show good faith and
preserve a conditional extension granted by Plaintiff’s counsel, its office
inadvertently filed a Notice of Appearance on behalf of Caesarstone due to the
mistaken belief that prior authority had been granted to make such an
appearance when, in fact, it had not been granted.  (Decl. of Brice ¶8, Exh. D.)
Caesarstone’s
counsel declares that on January 17, 2024, Caesarstone advised Lydecker of its
objection to jurisdiction of this Court and provided its limited authority to
enter a special appearance for the sole purpose of filing a Motion to Quash and
objection to personal jurisdiction. 
(Decl. of Brice ¶9.) 
Caesarstone’s counsel declares that on January 29, 2024, attorney James
Spratt of Lydecker advised Plaintiff’s counsel of the necessity of the instant
motion, and requested a joint stipulation regarding same, which Plaintiffs’
counsel rejected.  (Decl. of Brice ¶10,
Exh. E.)
Caesarstone’s
counsel declares neither Caesarstone or its counsel had the intent to cause any
undue delay and given that the originally agreed upon deadline by Plaintiffs’
counsel was to file a response to the Amended Complaint on or before January
29, 2024, Caesarstone does not believe that any party will be prejudiced by the
granting of this motion.  (Decl. of Brice
¶11.)
Caesarstone’s
counsel declares that since the filing of the Notice of Appearance on January
16, 2024, it has had a reasonable opportunity to confer with Defendant as it
relates to the allegations made against it in Plaintiffs’ First Amended
Complaint and have ascertained its original intent to file a Motion to Quash,
rather than making a general appearance and submitting to the jurisdiction of
the Court, and Lydecker filed the instant motion for relief as soon as was
reasonably practicable thereafter.  (Decl.
of Brice ¶12.) 
Caesarstone’s
counsel has filed its motion to quash service of summons to be heard at the
same time and place as the instant motion, and therefore satisfies the
requirement in C.C.P. §473(b) that an application for relief “shall be
accompanied by the answer or other pleading proposed to be filed therein,
otherwise the application shall not be granted.”  (C.C.P. §473(b).)
Accordingly,
Caesarstone’s motion for relief to withdraw its counsel’s appearance made on
its behalf is granted.  Caesarstone’s
motion to quash is allowed to be heard on the merits.
 
Conclusion
Caesarstone’s
motion for an order to withdraw its counsel’s appearance made on its behalf is
granted.  Caesarstone’s motion to quash
is allowed to be heard on the merits.
Moving
Party to give notice.
 
2.     Caesarstone’s Motion to Quash 
Evidentiary
Objections
Plaintiff’s
3/15/24 evidentiary objections to Caesarstone’s motion to quash are denied as
moot.
Caesarstone’s
3/20/24 evidentiary objections to the Declaration of Raphael Metzger
(“Metzger”) are sustained as to Nos. 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, and 6. 
 
Procedural
History
Caesarstone
filed the instant motion on February 5, 2024. 
Plaintiff filed his opposition on March 15, 2024.  Caesarstone filed its reply on March 20,
2024.
 
Legal
Standard
“A defendant, on or before the day of his or her time to
plead . . . may serve and file a notice of motion . . . [t]o quash service of
summons on the ground of lack of jurisdiction of the court over him or her.”  (C.C.P. §418.10(a)(1).)  By filing such motion, “a defendant makes a
special appearance for the narrow purpose of contesting personal jurisdiction
where the summons is defective.”  (Stancil
v. Superior Court (2021) 11 Cal.5th 381, 393.)
“In the absence of a voluntary submission to the authority
of the court, compliance with the statutes governing service of process is
essential to establish that court’s personal jurisdiction over a defendant.”  (Floveyer International, Ltd. v. Superior
Court (1997) 59 Cal.App.4th 789, 793; see also Calvert v. Al Binali
(2018) 29 Cal.App.5th 954, 961 [“To establish personal jurisdiction, it is essential
to comply with the statutory procedures for service of process.”].)  “When a defendant challenges that jurisdiction
by bringing a motion to quash, the burden is on the plaintiff to prove the
existence of jurisdiction by proving, inter alia, the facts requisite to an
effective service.”  (Lebel v. Mai
(2012) 210 Cal.App.4th 1154, 1160, internal quotations omitted.)
A non-resident defendant may be subject to either general or
specific jurisdiction.  (See Elkman v. National States Insurance Co. (2009) 173
Cal.App.4th 1305,
1314.) 
 
Discussion
Caesarstone’s
motion to quash Plaintiff’s service of summons is granted on the basis
Plaintiff failed to meet its burden to prove the existence of jurisdiction by proving, inter alia,
the facts requisite to an effective service. 
(See Lebel (2012) 210 Cal.App.4th at pg. 1160.)
          Accordingly, Caesarstone’s
motion to quash is granted.
 
Conclusion
Caesarstone’s
motion to quash is granted.  
Moving
Party to give notice.
 
3.     Stylenquaza’s Motion to Quash
Procedural
History
Stylenquaza
filed the instant motion on December 4, 2023. 
Plaintiff filed his opposition on March 15, 2024.
 
Legal
Standard
“A defendant, on or before the day of his or her time to
plead . . . may serve and file a notice of motion . . . [t]o quash service of
summons on the ground of lack of jurisdiction of the court over him or her.”  (C.C.P. §418.10(a)(1).)  By filing such motion, “a defendant makes a
special appearance for the narrow purpose of contesting personal jurisdiction
where the summons is defective.”  (Stancil,
11 Cal.5th at pg. 393.)
“In the absence of a voluntary submission to the authority
of the court, compliance with the statutes governing service of process is
essential to establish that court’s personal jurisdiction over a defendant.”  (Floveyer International, Ltd., 59
Cal.App.4th at pg. 793; see also Calvert, 29 Cal.App.5th at pg. 961.)   “When a
defendant challenges that jurisdiction by bringing a motion to quash, the
burden is on the plaintiff to prove the existence of jurisdiction by proving,
inter alia, the facts requisite to an effective service.”  (Lebel, 210 Cal.App.4th at pg. 1160.)
California’s long-arm statute permits a court to exercise
personal jurisdiction on any basis consistent with state or federal
constitutional principles.  (C.C.P.
§410.10.)  A non-resident defendant may
be subject to either general or specific jurisdiction.  (See Elkman,
173 Cal.App.4th at pg.
1314.) 
 
Discussion
First,
Stylenquaza’s argument that it was not properly served by Plaintiff on the
basis that its proof of service is defective is unavailing.  Stylenquaza does not argue it was not
properly served.  Further, Plaintiff
acknowledged its initial proof of service was technically defective and filed
an amended proof of service of summons to identify that the summons was served
on CT Corporation, Stylenquaza’s registered agent for service of process, at
its Glendale office.  (Decl. of Metzger
¶9, Exh. B.)  Further, Plaintiff served
CT Corporation a second time at its business address in Dallas, Texas, where
Stylenquaza has a principal place of business and where Stylenquaza claims it
must be served.  (Decl. of Metzger ¶10,
Exh. C.)
Second,
Stylenquaza’s argument that this Court lacks general jurisdiction over it is
not contested by Plaintiff; therefore, Plaintiff concedes that this Court does
not have general jurisdiction.
Third, Stylenquaza argues that Plaintiff lacks specific
jurisdiction.  
“If the nonresident defendant does not have substantial and
systematic contacts in the forum sufficient to establish general jurisdiction,
he or she still may be subject to the specific
jurisdiction of the forum, if the defendant has purposefully availed himself or
herself of forum benefits, and the ‘controversy is related to or ‘arises out
of’ a defendant’s contacts with the forum.’” 
(Vons Companies, Inc. v. Seabest
Foods, Inc. (1996) 14 Cal.4th 434,
446, citations omitted.)  The
purposeful availment test is only satisfied if the defendant purposefully and
voluntarily directs its activities toward California so that the defendant
should expect, because of the benefits it receives, to be subject to
jurisdiction here based on its contacts with California.  (Snowney v. Harrah’s Entertainment, Inc.
(2005) 35 Cal.4th 1054, 1062.) 
Purposeful availment occurs when a nonresident defendant purposefully
directs its activities at California residents, deliberately engages in
significant activities here, or creates “continuing obligations” between itself
and California residents.  (Id. at
pg. 1063.)
“The crucial inquiry concerns
the character of defendant’s activity in the forum, whether the cause of action
arises out of or has a substantial connection with that activity, and upon the
balancing of the convenience of the parties and the interests of the state in
assuming jurisdiction.”  (Vons Companies, Inc., 14 Cal.4th at pg. 448, citing Cornelison v. Chaney (1976) 16 Cal.3d
143, 147-148).  Jurisdiction is proper
when the defendant’s contacts proximately result from its actions that create a
“substantial connection” with the forum state. 
(Hanson v. Denckla (1958) 357 U.S. 235, 253.)
Plaintiffs must meet their
initial burden by a preponderance of competent and relevant evidence, as shown
in affidavits and documentary evidence. 
(See Ziller Electronics Lab GmbH v. Superior Court (1988) 206
Cal.App.3d 1222, 1232-1233.)
Stylenquaza contends that it
did not engage in a course of conduct that was directed at California or
purposefully availed itself of the benefits of California. To place the matter
at issue, Stylenquaza offers a sworn declaration from its manager and part
owner, An Nguyen, as support for this position.  Nguyen declares that Stylenquaza is a Texas
LLC with its principal place of business, main office, and registered agent in
Texas, doing business as “Vicostone USA” solely as a distributor of quartz
slabs supplied by Vicostone JSC, a Vietnamese quartz manufacturer.  (Decl. of Nguyen ¶3.) 
Nguyen declares Stylenquaza’s
other owners are Hoang Anh Ho, a citizen and resident of Vietnam, and Style
Stone Joint Stock Company, a Vietnamese corporation.  (Decl. of Nguyen ¶4.)  Nguyen declares Defendant principally does
business in 24 states, none of which are California.  (Decl. of Nguyen ¶5.) 
However, Stylenquaza concedes
that it distributed “insubstantial amounts” of prefabricated stone tops—which
do not require polishing—to California between 2018 and 2022, as well as 22
stone slabs across six shipments during that period.  (Decl. of Nguyen ¶8.)   Nguyen
declares that Stylenquaza does not own property, market its products, maintain
inventory or bank accounts, pay taxes, or have offices or employees in
California, nor has it ever been licensed to do business in California.  (Decl. of Nguyen ¶¶13-21.) 
Nguyen declares that another
named defendant in this action, Pental Granite and Marble, LLC, is responsible
for distributing Vicostone-made products in California and does so entirely out
of the control of Stylenquaza.  (Decl. of
Nguyen ¶6.)  Nguyen admits that Pental
occasionally purchases stone slabs from Stylenquaza when Pental has inventory
shortages but does so “on very rare occasions” and “in very insignificant
amounts,” and in those instances, Defendant states that it has no control over
the distribution of those products.  (Decl.
of Nguyen ¶7.)  Nguyen declares that
Vicostone’s English-language website lists regional distributors in California,
but states that these distributors are affiliated with Pental, and that the
website is operated by Vicostone JCS, not Stylenquaza.  (Decl. of Nguyen ¶21.) 
          Stylenquaza admits that it explicitly and intentionally
sold and shipped products, including 12 stone slabs of exactly the type that is
at issue in the pleadings, directly to California. Contrary to Stylenquaza’s
assertions, this conduct is not merely placing the products in the stream of
commerce with knowledge that the products might arrive in California,
but rather a series of transactions with the knowledge and purpose of conveying
the products to California.  (See Jayone
Foods Inc. v. Aekyung Industries Co. (2019) 31 Cal.App.5th 543, 559.) 
Plaintiff contends that the
claims asserted against Defendants arise out of the activities for which
evidence is provided above.  After
reviewing the essential allegations in the Complaint, the Court agrees.  Plaintiff’s claims arise out of the sale of
stone slabs in California which, when polished or fabricated, emit toxic dust.  (See Complaint ¶¶99-103.)  Stylenquaza’s own papers provide evidence of
the sale of these slabs.  Therefore, the
burden shifts to Stylenquaza to present a compelling case that the exercise of
jurisdiction would be unreasonable.
Stylenquaza contends that the
assertion of jurisdiction in this matter over it would be unreasonable.  The moving party must show that litigating the
case in a foreign state would be “so gravely difficult and inconvenient that it
would put him at a severe disadvantage in comparison to his opponent.” (Doe
v. Damron (2021) 70 Cal.App.5th 684, 693.)  Mere inconvenience is insufficient to defeat
jurisdiction.  (Id.)  When evaluating the reasonableness of the
exercise of jurisdiction, Courts commonly balance several factors in making
that determination, including (1) the extent of the defendant’s purposeful
interjection into the forum state; (2) the burden on the defendant; (3) the
extent of conflict with the sovereignty of the defendant’s state; (4) the forum
state’s interest in adjudicating the dispute; (5) the most efficient judicial
resolution of the controversy; (6) the importance of the forum to the
plaintiff’s interests in convenient and effective relief; and (7) the existence
of an alternate forum.  (See Core-Vent
Corp. v. Nobel Industries (9th Cir. 1993) 11 F.3d 1482, 1488-89.) 
Here, Stylenquaza’s
interjections into California consisted of, at minimum, the sale and shipping
of 12 stone slabs across 5 transactions between 2018 and 2022, plus an
unspecified number of prefabricated counter tops.  (Decl. of Nguyen ¶8.)  Stylenquaza does not state the number of slabs
sold to Pental, or whether it knew how many of those slabs were destined for
California.  (See Decl. of Nguyen
¶7.)   Stylenquaza also argues that there would be a
substantial burden on Defendant to hear this case in California because all of
its operations are based in Texas, rather than California, and it would be
unduly burdensome to require its owners to travel to California from either
Texas or Vietnam to appear in this state. Stylenquaza offers no evidence
establishing that either individual owner traveling to California would be
unduly burdensome, and no authority establishing that out of state or
international travel is an undue burden per se. 
Neither party addresses the
extent of any conflict with the sovereignty of the state of Texas, nor do they
address California’s interest in adjudication of this dispute, or the
importance of the forum to securing effective and convenient relief for Plaintiff.
It is undisputed that Texas courts would offer an alternative forum for this
dispute. 
In aggregate, Stylenquaza
offers very little in the way of evidence or substantive argument supporting
their position that the exercise of jurisdiction by this Court would be gravely
difficult or inconvenient for Stylenquaza. This is not sufficient to satisfy Stylenquaza’s
burden on this prong of the determination of specific jurisdiction.  Therefore, the Court does not find good cause
to quash service of the summons.
 
Conclusion
Stylenquaza’s
motion to quash service of summons is denied.
Moving
Party to give notice.
 
4.     Cosentino Group’s Motion to Quash
Evidentiary
Objections
Plaintiff’s
2/8/24 evidentiary objections to the Declaration of Jorge Cuervo Vela (“Vela”) are
overruled as to Nos. 1, 2, 3, and 4.
Cosentino
Group’s 3/21/24 evidentiary objections to the Declaration of Metzger are sustained
as to Nos. 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19,
20, and 21.
 
Request
for Judicial Notice
Plaintiff’s
2/8/24 request for judicial notice of (1) Order in Cosentino Group, S.A. v.
Superior Court (Solano-Claustro), Appeal No. B333938 (Division Four), filed
January 3, 2024 (P-RJN, Exh. A); and (2) Order in Cosentino Group, S.A. v.
Superior Court (Reyes-Gonzalez), Appeal No. B334019 (Division Seven), filed
January 10, 2024, (P-RJN, Exh. B), is granted.
 
Procedural
History
Cosentino
Group filed the instant motion on October 13, 2023.  Plaintiff filed his opposition on February 8,
2024.  Cosentino Group filed its reply on
March 21, 2024.
 
Discussion
1.    
Improper Service of Summons
Cosentino
Group seeks to quash service of the summons and complaint on the grounds that
it was not served in compliance with the Hague Service Convention. 
          Plaintiff retained the services of
Aaron Lukken (“Lukken”) of Viking Advocates LLC to arrange for service of
process on one of Specially Appearing Defendant’s executives, Eduardo Cosentino
(“EC”), in Vancouver, British Columbia.  (Decl.
of Dowse ¶5, Exh. 3 at ¶¶2-3.)  Lukken
retained the services of Axis Vero Incorporated, a private investigation firm
based in Canada, to effect service of process in British Columbia.  (Decl. of Dowse ¶5, Exh. 3 at ¶¶1-2.)  Axis Vero’s process server, Vladimir Raiman
(“Raiman”), presented the documents to EC at a showroom opening event at 1640
West 3rd Avenue, Vancouver, BC V6J 1K2 on Wednesday, September 13, 2023.  (Decl. of Dowse ¶5, Exh. 3 at ¶¶3, 7-9.)  Plaintiff filed an affidavit on September 25,
2023, from Raiman attesting to service on Cosentino Group.  (See Decl. of Dowse ¶5, Exh. 3.) 
          Cosentino Group contends that service
of process on EC in British Columbia on September 13, 2023, was improper
because Cosentino Group is a Spanish corporation and EC is a Spanish national,
and, therefore, service should have been made in Spain, not Canada, under the
Hague Convention. 
 
A.    Application of the Hague Convention
          Plaintiff first argues that the Hague
Convention does not apply to service of process on a corporation under
California law.  According to Plaintiff,
although C.C.P. §413.10(c) specifies that service on persons outside the United
States must be served pursuant to the Hague Service Convention, §416.10, which
governs service on corporations, does not specify location.  (C.C.P. §§413.10(c), 416.10.) Not so. C.C.P. §17
expressly defines person as “includ[ing] a corporation as well as a natural
person” throughout the Code.  (C.C.P. §17(b)(6).)
 
Moreover,
§416.10, as Cosentino Group argues, is contained within Article 4 of Title 5 of
Part 2 of the C.C.P.—an article which is titled “Persons Upon Whom Summons May
Be Served.”  Section 416.10 describes who
may be served on behalf of a corporation, not the mode of service upon that
person or the location where that person may be served.  Section 413.10 governs the choice of law for
service based on the location of the person.  Under C.C.P. §413.10(c), service on a person
outside the United States is subject to the Hague Service Convention. (C.C.P.
§413.10(c).)  As the undisputed facts
show that the party to be served is outside the United States, service on Cosentino
Group is governed by the Hague Service Convention. 
 
B.    Compliance
with the Hague Convention
          Plaintiff argues in the alternative
that, if the Hague Service Convention applies, service on EC in British
Columbia nevertheless complied with the Convention.
The
Hague Service Convention “is ‘a multilateral treaty that was formulated in 1964
by the Tenth Session of the Hague Conference of Private International Law . . .
[and] was intended to provide a simpler way to serve process abroad, to assure
that defendants sued in foreign jurisdictions would receive actual and timely
notice of suit, and to facilitate proof of service abroad.’”  (Rockefeller Technology Investments (Asia)
VII v. Changzhou SinoType Technology Co., Ltd. (2020) 9 Cal.5th 125, 135.)  The United States was an original signatory
and was adopted by Spain and Canada in 1987 and 1988, respectively.  (Id.; see
https://www.hcch.net/en/instruments/conventions/status-table/?cid=17 [as of
January 4, 2024].)  The Hague Service
Convention provides in Articles 2 through 7 for the establishment of a central
authority within each signatory to receive and execute requests for service of
documents from other countries.  (Water
Splash Inc. v. Menon (2017) 518 U.S. 271, 275.)  However, a signatory may consent to methods of
service within its boundaries other than a request to its central authority
under Articles 8 through 11.  (Volkswagenwerk
Aktiengesellschaft v. Schlunk (1988) 486 U.S. 694, 699.) 
          The parties agree that the relevant
provision that governs Plaintiff’s attempt to serve Cosentino Group through
British Columbia is Article 10.  This
section provides in relevant part that “[p]rovided the State of destination
does not object,” the Convention “shall not interfere with . . . the freedom of
judicial officers, officials or other competent persons of the State of origin
to effect service of judicial documents directly through the judicial officers,
officials or other competent persons of the State of destination[.]” (Hague
Service Convention, art. 10(b).)  Neither
Spain nor Canada have objected to this subdivision.  (See
https://www.hcch.net/en/states/authorities/detai-ls3/?aid=273 [Spain, as of
January 4, 2024]; https://www.hcch.net/en/states/auth-orities/details3/?aid=248
[Canada, as of January 4, 2024].) 
          Cosentino Group argues that the “state
of destination” under Article 10 subdivision (b) of the Hague Service
Convention refers to the state in which the party to be served is domiciled.
Plaintiff, in opposition, argues that this language refers merely to the
jurisdiction where the documents are sent, and imposes no requirements as to
the state in which service must be made. In interpreting treaties, courts must
“‘begin with the text of the treaty and the context in which the written words
are used.’”  (Water Splash, 581
U.S. at pg. 276, quoting Volkswagenwerk, 486 U.S. at pg. 699.)  Further, the meaning of the language must be
consistent throughout the Convention.  (See
Taniguuchi v. Kan Pacific Saipan, Ltd. (2012) 566 U.S. 560, 571
[“identical words used in different parts of the same act are intended to have
the same meaning”].) 
          The full text of Article 10 states:
Provided the State of
destination does not object, the present Convention shall not interfere with
–
a)     the
freedom to send judicial documents, by postal channels, directly to persons
abroad,
 
b)    the
freedom of judicial officers, officials or other competent persons of the State
of origin to effect service of judicial documents directly through the judicial
officers, officials or other competent persons of the State of destination,
 
c)     the
freedom of any person interested in a judicial proceeding to effect service of
judicial documents directly through the judicial officers, officials or other
competent persons of the State of destination.
 
(Hague Service
Convention art. 10.)  Nothing in the
Convention itself defines “State of destination.”  However, the stated purpose of the Convention
is to improve and simplify the process of serving documents across
international borders.  (Hague Convention
preamble.)  Article 1 states that the
Convention’s procedures are triggered “in all cases, in civil or commercial
matters, where there is occasion to transmit a judicial or extrajudicial
document for service abroad.” (Id. at art. 1 [emphasis added].)  Moreover, the Hague Conference on Private
International Law Permanent Bureau has published a Practical Handbook on the
convention which defines “State of destination” simply as “the State where
service is, or will be, effected.”
Cosentino
Group attempts to discredit Plaintiff’s argument by stating that Plaintiff’s
interpretation “has nothing to do with service of a California summons on a
Spanish national.”  However, nothing in
the Convention bears on who may be served or where they must be served, only how
service must be made. With respect to Article 10 in particular, the Convention
does not describe who may be served: it describes who may effect service.
 Put differently, this subdivision states
that service may be effectuated by be made by transferring documents from a
person competent to effect service in the origin state (here, California)
directly to a person competent to effect service in the state where service is
intended to be made (here, Canada), as opposed to sending those documents to
the Canadian central authority. Nothing in this provision nor any other
provision of the Convention imposes any restriction on service based on the
nationality or residence of the person intended to be served.  Cosentino Group’s interpretation, which
conflates “destination” with “domicile,” is contrary to both the plain meaning
of the language of the Convention and with the definition applied by the Hague
Conference on Private International Law Permanent Bureau.  Thus, if service complies with the law of the
state from which the documents originate, and with the law of the state where
service is attempted, whether or not the recipient is a resident of the
latter state, and neither state has objected to Article 10, then service is
proper under the Hague Convention. 
Here,
the documents were conveyed from Plaintiff’s counsel, who may serve documents
under C.C.P. §414.10, to Raiman, who is authorized to effect service in British
Columbia.  (See Decl. of Dowse ¶5,
Exh. 3 at ¶1.)  California law authorizes
a corporation to be served by delivering a copy of the summons and complaint to
the president, CEO, or other head of the corporation, a vice president,
secretary, treasurer, controller or chief financial officer, a general manager,
or a person authorized to receive service of process.  (C.C.P. §416.10(b).)  Rule 4.3 of the Supreme Court Civil Rules of
British Columbia Reg. 168/2009 authorizes personal service to be effected on a
corporation by, inter alia, leaving a copy with a chief officer or other
agent of the corporation.  (Supreme Ct.
Civ. R. B.C. Reg. 168/2009 Rule 4.3(2)(b)(i), (iii).)  Moreover, for any corporation whose chief
place of business is outside British Columbia, any person who carries on any
business of or for the corporation is an agent.  (Supreme Ct. Civ. R. B.C. Reg. 168/2009 Rule
4.3(2)(b)(iv).)  EC is a vice president
of Cosentino Group who was present in Vancouver at the opening of a showroom on
behalf of his employer.  (Decl. of Dowse
¶5, Exh. 3. at ¶¶5-7.)  Raiman personally
delivered the documents to EC. (Decl. of Dowse ¶5, Exh. 3. at ¶7.)  Therefore, Cosentino Group has been personally
served with the summons and complaint in compliance with the laws of California
and British Columbia. 
          Accordingly, Plaintiff has established
that service of process was properly made on Cosentino Group. Service of the
summons and complaint should not be quashed on this basis. 
 
2.    
Personal Jurisdiction
Cosentino
Groups argues this Court lacks either general personal jurisdiction or specific
personal jurisdiction over it because Cosentino Group does not have a
sufficient relationship with the State of California.  A non-resident defendant may be subject to
either general or specific jurisdiction.  (See Elkman, 173
Cal.App.4th at pg. 1314.) 
          The parties agree that the Court does
not have general jurisdiction over Cosentino Group.  Instead, Plaintiff contends that Cosentino
Group is subject only to specific jurisdiction.
Cosentino
Group argues that it did not purposefully avail itself of the privilege of
conducting activities in California. 
Purposeful availment in tort cases is based upon “(1) intentional
actions (2) expressly aimed at the forum state (3) causing harm, the brunt of
which is suffered –and which the defendant knows is likely to be suffered –in
the forum state.” (Jewish Defense Organization, Inc., 72
Cal.App.4th at pgs. 1057-1058.)
Cosentino
Group’s argument is based on the declaration of its Vice President for Legal
and Compliance, Jorge Cuervo Vela (“Vela”) who states that Cosentino Group is
headquartered in Spain, organized under Spanish law, and operates exclusively
in Spain.  (Decl. of Vela ¶4.)  Vela declares that Cosentino Group has never
conducted any business in California and, as a holding company, does not
develop, design, manufacture, distribute, sell, advertise, or market any
products. (Decl. of Vela ¶¶5-6.)  Vela
declares that the company which was responsible for marketing and selling the
products at issue is C & C North America, Inc., an indirect subsidiary of Cosentino
Group headquartered in Coral Gables, Florida, which keeps its own accounts and
records and pays and manages its own employees.  (Decl. of Vela ¶¶7-8.) 
Plaintiff
seeks to introduce a bevy of materials, consisting mostly of news articles and
webpages operated by Cosentino Group or its subsidiaries.  (See Decl. of Metzger, Exh. 1.A-Z.)  However, as Plaintiff states, these materials
are not admissible because Cosentino Group has refused to admit to their
authenticity. (See Opposition, pg. 18.)  Even if this evidence were authenticated, the
bulk of this evidence has limited probative value.  Of greatest consequence is the evidence that
Cosentino Group and Cosentino North America share executives, (Decl. of Metzger,
Exh. 1.I) and that Cosentino Group’s own marketing materials refer to its
affiliates in the United States as “100% subsidiaries.” (Exh. 1.D at pg. 57.)
These materials are not sufficient to persuade the Court that Cosentino Group is
an alter ego such that it should be subject to specific jurisdiction.  However, Plaintiff candidly acknowledges this
deficiency and request an opportunity to conduct jurisdictional discovery to
unearth evidence of facts which would establish jurisdiction. As such evidence
would naturally be in the exclusive possession of Cosentino Group, who has
refused to admit even to the authenticity or accuracy of publications on
websites bearing its name or media articles identifying its executives, the
Court finds that discovery is likely to lead to the production of at least some
evidence of facts establishing jurisdiction.  (See In re Automobile Antitrust
Cases I & II (2005) 135 Cal.App.4th 100, 127.) 
Therefore,
although Plaintiff has not established specific jurisdiction over Cosentino
Group, good cause exists to continue this motion to permit the parties to
engage in jurisdictional discovery and supplemental briefing on the effects of
that discovery. 
 
Conclusion
Cosentino
Group’s motion to quash service of summons is continued to June 5, 2024, to
allow Plaintiff to conduct jurisdictional discovery.  Cosentino Group is ordered to produce Jorge
Cuervo Vela for deposition regarding jurisdictional issues.  
Moving
Party to give notice.
 
5.     ADB Global’s Motion to Quash
Evidentiary
Objections
ADB’s
3/21/24 evidentiary objections to the Declaration of Metzger are overruled as
to No. 1 and sustained as to Nos. 2 and 3.
 
Procedural
History
ADB
filed the instant motion on January 4, 2024. 
Plaintiff filed his opposition on March 15, 2024.  ADB filed its reply on March 21, 2024.
 
Discussion
ADB
argues this Court lacks either general personal jurisdiction or specific
personal jurisdiction.  A non-resident
defendant may be subject to either general or specific jurisdiction.  (See Elkman, 173
Cal.App.4th at pg. 1314.) 
          The parties agree that the Court does
not have general jurisdiction over ADB.  Instead, Plaintiff contends that ADB is
subject only to specific jurisdiction.
          ADB
argues that it did not purposefully avail itself of the privilege of conducting
activities in California.  ADB’s CEO,
Doruk A. Borekci (“Borekci”) declares that ADB has had only four sales in
California since its incorporation in 2006, as follows: (1) Superior Tile and
Marble, located in San Francisco, CA, in 2015; (2) PWI Construction for the
Beverly Hills Spa, in 2020; (3) 5M Park, located in San Francisco, in 2021; and
(4) Achill Beg Construction, Inc., located in San Francisco, CA, in 2022.  (Decl. of Borekci ¶13.)  None of these sales were to any of the
employers Plaintiff identifies in his pleading.  Borekci declares ADB maintains all of its
books and corporate records in North Bergen, New Jersey and Northbrook,
Illinois, and its corporate activities are directed, controlled, and
coordinated from New Jersey and Illinois, not California.  (Decl. of Borekci ¶5.)
ADB does not state the number
of slabs sold in the four sales to California.  (See Decl. of Borecki ¶13.)   ADB
also argues that there would be a substantial burden on it to hear this case in
California ADB is not a California corporation, does not have its principal
place of business in California, does not maintain books and corporate records
in California, does not direct, control, and coordinate corporate activities
from California, does not have any offices in California, does not own or lease
any property in California, and does not have any employees in California.  (Decl. of Borecki ¶¶3-8.)  ADB offers no evidence establishing that its
CEO traveling to California would be unduly burdensome, and no authority
establishing that out of state travel is an undue burden per se. 
Neither party addresses the
extent of any conflict with the sovereignty of the state of Illinois, nor do
they address California’s interest in adjudication of this dispute, or the
importance of the forum to securing effective and convenient relief for
Plaintiff. It is undisputed that Illinois courts would offer an alternative
forum for this dispute. 
In aggregate, ADB offers very
little in the way of evidence or substantive argument supporting their position
that the exercise of jurisdiction by this Court would be gravely difficult or
inconvenient for ADB. This is not sufficient to satisfy ADB’s burden on this
prong of the determination of specific jurisdiction.  Therefore, the Court does not find good cause
to quash service of the summons.
 
Conclusion
ADB’s
motion to quash service of summons is denied.
Moving
Party to give notice.
 
Dated: 
March _____, 2024
                                                                             





  