  Case Number:  21STCV34431    Hearing Date:   January 25, 2024    Dept:  52 Cross-Defendant Cynosure,
LLC’s Motions to Compel Further Responses to (1) Requests for Production and
(2) Special Interrogatories 
Requests for Production
Cross-defendant Cynosure, LLC (Cynosure) moves to compel
cross-complainant Tarzana Medical Urgent Care (Tarzana) to further respond to
request for production Nos. 7-27 and 29-36. 
Cynosure’s memorandum of points and authorities refers to additional
requests.  The required separate
statement, however, includes only 29 requests, erroneously numbered 1-29.  They are request Nos. 7-27 and 29-36.  The court will only address those requests.
A party propounding requests for production may move
to compel further responses if “[a] statement of compliance with the demand is
incomplete,” “[a] representation of inability to comply is inadequate,
incomplete, or evasive,” or “[a]n objection in the response is without merit or
too general.”  (CCP § 2031.310(a).)
A. Proper Objection to No. 31
            Tarzana
properly objected to request No. 31. 
Cynosure requested “all state and federal tax returns YOU have filed in
the past seven (7) years.”  Tarzana
objected based on the tax return privilege. 
(Weingarten v. Superior Court (2002) 102 Cal.App.4th
268, 274.)  Cynosure does not establish
any exception to the privilege.
Tarzana’s
objection to request No. 31 based on the tax return privilege is sustained.
B. Meritless and Frivolous Objections
Tarzana made meritless objections to the remaining
disputed requests for production.  Generally, the responding party bears the
burden of justifying its objections.  (Fairmont Ins. Co. v.
Superior Court (2000) 22 Cal.4th 245, 255.) 
To each request, Tarzana made boilerplate objections that do not and
cannot apply.  Many are frivolous.  For example, it objected based on “[c]lergy
privilege”, “[s]pousal communication privilege”, and “[m]arital testimony
privilege.”  As a corporate entity,
Tarzana has none of these privileges.  
Tarzana also
objected that “[t]he information requested is equally available,” which is not
a valid objection to requests for production. 
It only applies to interrogatories when “the responding party does not
have personal knowledge sufficient to respond fully.”  (CCP § 2030.220(c).)  Tarzana further objected based on
attorney-client privilege and work product to requests such as “Produce all
advertisements and marketing material created by YOU for YOUR services...” (No.
12) and “Produce all documents and communications related to training you
received concerning Sculpsure” (No. 17). 
Those cannot be protected by attorney-client privilege or work product.  
Tarzana
also objected based on patients’ privacy rights.  “The
party asserting a privacy right must establish a legally protected privacy
interest, an objectively reasonable expectation of privacy in the given
circumstances, and a threatened intrusion that is serious.”  (Williams v. Superior Court (2017)
3 Cal.5th 531, 552.)  If the objecting party shows all three
elements, then the court must balance the need for disclosure against the right
to privacy.  (Ibid.)  The court may consider “the availability of
alternatives and protective measures.”  (Id. at p. 556.)  
Tarzana meets the three elements under Williams.  Cynosure, however, has a
strong need to discover the responsive documents.  The gravamen of Tarzana’s first amended
cross-complaint against Cynosure is that its Sculpsure laser system does not
work as advertised.  Tarzana alleges, “Tarzana
used the Sculpsure Laser System on numerous patients. None of Tarzana’s
patients saw results. None of Tarzana’s patients were satisfied.”  (FACC, ¶ 26.) 
Tarzana thus put its patients’ satisfaction at issue.  
Cynosure
proposed a fair way to preserve the patients’ privacy rights.  It
proposed a protective order and HIPAA order (Schaeffer Decl., ¶ 3, Exs. 2-3)
under which Tarzana would redact identifying information and instead using
unique numbers for each patient.  Doing
so fully protects patients’ privacy rights.   

Tarzana does not justify any of its remaining objections.  Cynosure shows good cause for its
requests.  All requests are reasonably
particularized categories and are reasonably calculated to lead to the
discovery of admissible evidence.
Tarzana’s objections to requests for production Nos. 7-27, 29, 30, and
32-36 are overruled. 
C. Incomplete Statements of Compliance
Tarzana
also made incomplete statements of compliance in response to Nos. 12 and 13.  Substantively, it responded: “Responding Party
refers Propounding Party to its website at https://marbellamedicalspa.com.”  
A statement of compliance must state that “all
documents or things in the demanded category that are in the possession,
custody, or control of that party and to which no objection is being made will
be included in the production.”  (CCP §
2031.220.)  A
statement of compliance must include that precise language because it states
under oath not only that the responding party will produce specified documents,
but also that the responding party is not withholding any responsive documents.  Merely
identifying some documents or providing a website’s address is insufficient.   
Special Interrogatories
Cynosure moves to compel Tarzana to further respond
to special interrogatory Nos.  1, 3-5,
7-9, 11, and 13.  Cynosure’s memorandum
of points and authorities refers to additional interrogatories.  Its required separate statement, however,
includes only 9 interrogatories, erroneously numbered 1-9.  They are interrogatory Nos. 1, 3-5, 7-9, 11,
and 13.  The court will only address those
interrogatories.
A party propounding interrogatories may move to compel further responses
when an answer “is evasive or incomplete,” “[a]n exercise of the option to
produce documents under Section 2030.230 is unwarranted or the required
specification of those documents is inadequate,” or “[a]n objection to an
interrogatory is without merit or too general.” 
(CCP § 2030.300(a).) 
A. Proper Objection and Response to No. 13
Tarzana gave a valid response to special
interrogatory No. 13.  The interrogatory
asks Tarzana to describe all communications between it and others concerning
any of the matters alleged in its complaint. 
Tarzana responded with many objections, including attorney-client
privilege, and substantively responded, “Responding Party had communications
with counsel which are privileged.”  
Given the applicable privilege, that response is complete
and direct response.  Whether the response is true
is a question of credibility, not whether Tarzana complied with the Civil
Discovery Act.  (See Saxena v. Goffney
(2008) 159 Cal.App.4th 316, 333 [“serving a willfully false answer to an
interrogatory” is “not specifically covered by the Civil Discovery Act”].)  
In its separate
statement, Cynosure argues, “To the extent Cross-Complainant is asserting that
all responsive documents are protected by attorney-client privilege, it is
required to serve a privilege log.” 
(Sep. Statement, p. 17, citing CCP § 2030.240.)  This is an interrogatory, not a request for
production of documents.  Tarzana gave
“the specific ground for the objection” and stated “the particular privilege
invoked” as required.  (CCP §
2030.240(b).)  A privilege log is not
required for interrogatories.  (Compare §
2030.240 with § 2031.240(c).)
Tarzana’s
objection to special interrogatory No. 13 based on attorney-client privilege is
sustained.
B. Meritless Objections
            Tarzana
made meritless objections to the remaining interrogatories.  It made the same boilerplate, inapplicable
objections as in its responses to Cynosure’s requests for production.  Tarzana does not justify these objections.
Tarzana further objected that the interrogatories
are compound.  “No specially prepared
interrogatory shall contain subparts, or a compound, conjunctive, or
disjunctive question.”  (CCP §
2030.060(f).)  This rule’s purpose is to
“ ‘prevent evasion of the statutory limit on the number of
interrogatories that one party may propound to another.’ ”  (Clement v. Alegre (2009) 177
Cal.App.4th 1277, 1288.)  Though some of the interrogatories ask for multiple
types of information, each concerns a single subject.  (See id. at p. 1291.)  These interrogatories are permitted.    
For Tarzana’s privacy objections, Cynosure proposed
a fair way to protect patients’ rights as discussed above.  Answering the questions by using unique
identifying numbers for patients instead of their names and withholding their
contact information will adequately protect their privacy.  
            Tarzana’s
remaining objections are overruled.
C. Evasive or Incomplete Responses
Tarzana also gave incomplete or evasive responses to
the interrogatories.  For example, No. 5 asks
Tarzana to describe the research or due diligence it undertook regarding
Sculpsure before purchasing it. 
Substantively, Tarzana responded, “Responding Party relied upon the
representations and warranties provided by Propounding Party through its
representative.  In addition, at least on
one occasion, TMUC attempted to contact another practitioner who was referred
to TMUC by a representative of Propounding Party but such effort was not
successful.”  Referring to “another
practitioner” without identifying that individual is an incomplete response.
No. 9 asks: “Describe the losses that YOU contend
are the result of the alleged misrepresentations related to Sculpsure,
including by identifying each person who has allegedly sustained those losses,
the amount of those losses, and your methodology for calculating those losses.”  Substantively, Tarzana responded, “The losses
include but are not limited to the accelerated depreciated value paid for the
useless device (which as evidence in this litigation was apx. $15,000 after
three years), the loss of reputation and the loss of existing disappointed
clients.”  Stating what the losses
“included but are not limited to” is incomplete and evasive.  Tarzana also identified two categories of
loss without specifying any amount or the basis for calculating that
amount.   
Tarzana gave a similarly incomplete response to No. 11.  That interrogatory asks Tarzana to identify
all people who declined to use its services due to defects with the Sculpsure
laser.  Substantively, Tarzana responded,
“Responding Party had many clients cancel and/or request refund and/or offered
credit in the form of other services.”  Answering
“many clients” is incomplete and evasive. 
As discussed above, Tarzana’s privacy objection applies to protect
patients’ names and contact information. 
But a complete and straightforward answer requires giving the number of
clients, not just stating “many.”
Disposition
            Cross-defendant
Cynosure, LLC’s motion to compel further responses to requests for production
is granted in part. 
Cross-complainant Tarzana Medical Urgent Care is ordered
to provide further verified responses without objections to request for
production Nos. 7-27, 29, 30, and 32-36 within 30 days.  Tarzana Medical Urgent Care shall produce all
responsive documents in its possession, custody, or control concurrently with
its further written responses.  Tarzana
Medical Urgent Care shall redact all patients’ personal identifying information
and instead use a unique number for each patient.
            Cross-defendant Cynosure, LLC’s motion to compel further responses to
special interrogatories is granted
in part.  Cross-complainant Tarzana Medical
Urgent Care is ordered to provide further verified responses without
objections to special interrogatories Nos. 1, 3-5, 7-9, and 11 within 30
days.  Tarzana Medical Urgent Care shall
redact all patients’ personal identifying information and instead use a unique
number for each patient.