 Case Number:  EC066531    Hearing Date:   June 4, 2024    Dept:  3 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - NORTHEAST
DISTRICT
 



UNI-GLORY DEVELOPMENT, INC., 
                    Plaintiff(s),
          vs.
 
FAIRVIEW
   EAST, LLC, et al.,
 
                    Defendant(s).


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


     CASE NO.:  EC066531
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: APPLICATION FOR DEFAULT JUDGMENT 
 
Dept.
  3
8:30
  a.m.
June 4,
  2024




 


)


 



 
I.           
INTRODUCTION
Cross-complainant Fairview East, LLC
(“Fairview East”) seeks a default judgment against cross-defendants Engles Shen
& Associates, Inc. (“Engles Shen”), DLAC, Inc. (“DLAC”), and Golden City
International, Inc. (“Golden City”) (collectively, “Defaulting
Cross-Defendants”). Fairview East asserts a cause of action for negligence
against all Defaulting Cross-Defendants. Fairview East also asserts a cause of
action as a third-party beneficiary for breach of contract against Golden City.
The operative pleading, the Fourth
Amended Cross-Complaint (“4th ACC”), was filed on August 31, 2020. Fairview
East alleges that Engles Shen, an engineering firm, and DLAC, an architectural
firm, made mistakes in the course of constructing a condominium (the “Fairview
Project”), causing delay and losses of $80,000 and $100,000, respectively. (4th
ACC, ¶¶ 19, 20.) Engles Shen and DLAC were both retained by the former owners
of the Fairview Project and their retainer agreements are attached as Exhibits
1 and 3 to Fairview East’s brief in support of this application for default
judgment. (Brief, p. 4, Exs. 1, 3.) Fairview East was subsequently assigned the
contract with DLAC. (Id., Ex. 2.) As for Golden City, Fairview East
alleges that Golden City, a sub-contractor, breached its contract with plaintiff/cross-defendant
Uni-Glory Development, Inc. (“Uni-Glory”) and failed to act reasonably and
competently, causing damages of $80,000. (4th ACC, ¶ 21.) 
Plaintiff’s application for default
judgment is deficient, as further discussed below, and cannot be granted at
this time. 
First, for each of its requests for
court judgment filed on October 5, 2023, Fairview East includes a claim for prejudgment
interest at 10%. However, no calculation of interest is included. Furthermore, Fairview
East only asserted a cause of action for negligence against DLAC or Engles
Shen. Therefore, the requests for prejudgment interest at a rate of 10% from
DLAC and Engles Shen exceeds the 7% maximum for tort claims. (CRC 3.1800(a)(3);
Cal. Const., Art. 15, § 1.) Fairview East also includes a table identifying
$68,887.15 in “total loss interest” in Exhibit 4, p. 44 and Exhibit 5, p. 44,
without any explanation of what this amount signifies. 
Second, Fairview East’s calculation of
damages against Engles Shen and DLAC appear to include some overlapping items,
including fees paid to the State Water Resources Control Board, insurance
premiums, inspection fees and other fees, and property tax. Therefore, Fairview
East’s brief and proposed judgments must specify the amount of damages that the
Defaulting Cross-Defendants are jointly and severally liable for, and how their
individual liability is capped as pleaded by the Complaint in order to avoid
double (or triple) recovery for the same damages. 
Third, Fairview East fails to explain
how Engles Shen and DLAC’s alleged errors caused the amount in damages that it
claims. DLAC’s errors only allegedly caused 50 days of delay while Engles Shen
caused the project to be suspended for only 3 months. (4th ACC, ¶¶ 19, 20.) Therefore,
it is unclear why Fairview East includes bills and fees for multiple years from
2014 to 2017. (See, e.g., Brief, Ex. 4, pp. 13-43.) If there are
documents that are unrelated to Fairview East’s claimed damages, they should
not be included in the brief. 
Fourth, Fairview East includes costs of
$510 on its request for court judgment, but it is unclear whether Fairview East
is claiming that Defaulting Cross-Defendants are jointly and severally liable
for $510, or that each Defaulting Cross-Defendant is responsible for $510. For
example, Fairview East includes $435 in clerk’s filing fees and $75 in process
server’s fees. The filing fee for a “complaint or first paper” in an unlimited
civil case costs is $435. Thus, Fairview East cannot recover $435 from each of
the three Defaulting Cross-Defendants.
Last, Fairview East should have
submitted only one proposed judgment on Form JUD-100, indicating the amounts
each Defaulting Cross-Defendant is individually liable for and those they are jointly
and severally liable for in Item 8. 
Based on the foregoing, the hearing on
the default prove-up is CONTINUED to July 12, 2024, at 8:30 a.m. in Department
3 of the Alhambra Courthouse. All revised and additional supporting papers must
be submitted no later than 5 court days before the hearing. 
 
Dated
this 4th
day of June, 2024
 




 


 




 


       William A.
  Crowfoot
Judge of the Superior Court
 




 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at ALHDEPT3@lacourt.org indicating
intention to submit on the tentative as directed by the instructions provided
on the court website at www.lacourt.org. Please be advised that if you submit
on the tentative and elect not to appear at the hearing, the opposing party may
nevertheless appear at the hearing and argue the matter. Unless you receive a
submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume that others
might appear at the hearing to argue. If the Court does not receive emails from
the parties indicating submission on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may, at its discretion, adopt the
tentative as the final order or place the motion off calendar.
 