  Case Number:  19STCV34640    Hearing Date:   June 4, 2024    Dept:  3 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - NORTHEAST
DISTRICT
 



JOSE R. ROCALEON, 
                    Plaintiff(s),
          vs.
 
HARLEY-DAVIDSON
   MOTOR COMPANY, INC., et al.,
 
                    Defendant(s).


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


     CASE NO.:  19STCV34640
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: MOTION TO SEAL EVIDENCE IN SUPPORT OF MOTION FOR SUMMARY
   JUDGMENT/SUMMARY ADJUDICATION 
 
Dept.
  3
8:30
  a.m.
June 4,
  2024




 


)


 



 
Defendants Harley-Davidson Motor
Company Group, LLC (erroneously sued as Harley- Davidson Motor Company, Inc.)
and TMCHB, Inc. dba Huntington Beach Harley-Davidson (erroneously sued as The
Motorcycle Company, LLC) (collectively, “Defendants”) move for an order sealing
portions of the Declaration of Leah Orloff in support of Defendants’ Motion for
Summary Judgment or, in the alternative, Motion for Summary Adjudication
(“Orloff MSJ Declaration”). Specifically, Defendants wish to seal page 4, lines
12 through 18, page 8, lines 1 through 8 and 21 through 27, page 10, lines 3
through 10 of the Orloff MSJ Declaration, in addition to Exhibit BB, which
consists of 3 pages bates-labeled HD_Rocaleon_000918, HD_Rocaleon_000919, and HD_Rocaleon_000920.
Leah Orloff (“Orloff”), a Principal
Engineer in Product Integrity at the Harley Davidson Product Development
Center, provided a declaration attesting to the need for these materials to be
sealed. This declaration, filed on April 6, 2024 (“Orloff Decl. ISO Sealing”),
explains that these material are engineering drawings for the motorcycle seat
which contain highly sensitive and confidential information regarding the seat
mounting system for the motorcycle model at issue in this action, the 2018 FXLR.
(Orloff Decl. ISO Sealing, ¶¶ 4.) The drawings are labeled as restricted and
confidential and include a notification that the drawings are confidential and
cannot be disclosed or reproduced without prior written consent. (Id., ¶
5.) According to Orloff, access to these drawings is controlled and any
individual who takes possession of the engineering drawings must understand and
agree that the information they are receiving is confidential in nature and for
a limited use. (Id., ¶ 6.) In addition, while all of Harley-Davidson’s
employees sign confidentiality agreements upon hire, not all employees have
access to these drawings; the drawings may only be accessed by certain approved
individuals with the requisite credentials. (Id., ¶¶ 7-8.) Orloff
declares that the engineering drawings include confidential information
regarding the seat of the 2018 FXLR, which Defendants and its manufacturers and
suppliers have devoted considerable resources, including time, research,
testing, and development costs, to designing and developing. (Id., ¶
10.) The economic value of this information is dependent on it not being known
or ascertainable by Harley-Davidson’s competitors in the highly competitive
motorcycle manufacturing industry or the public. (Id., ¶¶ 10-11.) 
Defendants sufficiently demonstrate
that there exists an overriding interest in maintaining the proprietary and
confidential nature of the engineering drawings included in the Orloff MSJ
Declaration and Exhibit BB. Defendants have also shown that their interest overcomes
the right of the public access to the records because a substantial probability
exists that their interest will be prejudiced if the record is not sealed.
Additionally, the Court finds that the proposed sealing is narrowly tailored
and the least restrictive means available to protect Defendants’ interest
because the material requested to be sealed only consists of several drawings. 
Accordingly, the motion to seal is
GRANTED and the following portions of the Orloff MSJ Declaration are sealed: page
4, lines 12 through 18, page 8, lines 1 through 8 and 21 through 27, page 10,
lines 3 through 10, and Exhibit BB.
Dated
this 4th
day of June, 2024
 




 


 




 


       William A.
  Crowfoot
Judge of the Superior Court
 




 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at ALHDEPT3@lacourt.org indicating
intention to submit on the tentative as directed by the instructions provided
on the court website at www.lacourt.org. Please be advised that if you submit
on the tentative and elect not to appear at the hearing, the opposing party may
nevertheless appear at the hearing and argue the matter. Unless you receive a
submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume that others
might appear at the hearing to argue. If the Court does not receive emails from
the parties indicating submission on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may, at its discretion, adopt the
tentative as the final order or place the motion off calendar.
 