  Case Number:  21PSCV00968    Hearing Date:   November 4, 2024    Dept:  6 CASE  NAME:  Imran  Haddish v. Scott Warmuth, a Professional Corporation dba Law Offices of Scott  Warmuth, et al.  Motion  for Judgment on the Pleadings of Defendants Scott Warmuth to the Complaint for  Legal Malpractice of Plaintiff Imran Haddish  TENTATIVE  RULING  The Court DENIES the motion for judgment on the pleadings.               Plaintiff Imran Haddish is ordered  to give notice of the Court’s ruling within five calendar days of this order.  BACKGROUND  This is a legal malpractice case. On November 23, 2021, plaintiff Imran  Haddish (Plaintiff) filed this action against defendants Scott Warmuth, a  professional corporation dba Law Offices of Scott Warmuth (Warmuth), Michael  (Che-Yang) Chen (Chen), and Does 1 through 100, alleging causes of action for  professional negligence (legal malpractice), breach of contract, and breach of  fiduciary duty. On May 20, 2022, Warmuth filed a second amended answer to the  complaint.  On September 30, 2024, Warmuth moved for judgment on the  pleadings. On October 22, 2024, Plaintiff opposed the motion. On October 28,  2024, Warmuth replied.  LEGAL  STANDARD A defendant may move for judgment on the pleadings when the court  lacks jurisdiction over the cause of action or the complaint does not state  sufficient facts to constitute a cause of action against the defendant. (Code  Civ. Proc., § 438, subd. (c)(1)(B).) A motion for judgment on the pleadings tests the legal sufficiency  of the complaint and is analyzed in all material respects as though it were a  demurrer. (Wise v. Pacific Gas & Electric Co. (2005) 132 Cal.App.4th  725, 738; Kapsimallis v. Allstate Insurance Co. (2002) 104 Cal.App.4th  667, 672.) “A motion for judgment on the pleadings performs the same function  as a general demurrer, and hence attacks only defects disclosed on the face of  the pleadings or by matters that can be judicially noticed.” (Cloud v.  Northrop Grumman Corp. (1998) 67 Cal.App.4th 995, 999 [citations omitted].) PRELIMINARY  ISSUE              The  Court notes that the notice for the motion is four pages long and contains many  arguments. Notices are not for arguments. (See Cal. Rules of Court, rule  3.1110, subds. (a), (b).) Arguments are reserved for the memorandum of points  and authorities. (See Id., rule 3.1113, subd. (b).) The Court admonishes  Warmuth to comply with the requirements of the California Rules of Court going  forward.  DISCUSSION  Meet and Confer  Per Code of Civil Procedure section 439, subdivision (a), Warmuth  was required to meet and confer with Plaintiff in person, by telephone, or by  video conference before moving for judgment on the pleadings. (Code Civ. Proc.,  § 439, subd. (a).) The Court finds Warmuth’s efforts to meet and confer  insufficient, as Warmuth’s counsel only indicates having sent a letter. (Smith  Decl., ¶¶ 3-4.) Nevertheless, the Court may not deny the motion for failure to  adequately meet and confer. (Code Civ. Proc., § 439, subd. (a)(4).) The Court  will still consider the motion, but admonishes Warmuth to comply with the  requirements of the Code of Civil Procedure going forward.  Summary of Arguments  Warmuth moves for judgment on the pleadings as to the entire  complaint and to each cause of action on the grounds that they fail to state a  cause of action against Warmuth. Warmuth contends the complaint does not allege  that Warmuth performed any legal services for Plaintiff and states no specific  theory of liability against Warmuth. Warmuth contends Plaintiff is trying to  hold Warmuth derivatively responsible for the acts of Defendant Chen, but that  the complaint does not allege facts supporting such derivative liability.  Warmuth contends no facts have been alleged for alter ego liability or that  Warmuth and Chen were acting under a partnership or joint venture agreement.  Warmuth contends the complaint is devoid of any allegations of an  employer/employee relationship or actual agency relationship.  Warmuth contends Plaintiff has failed and is unable to plead  ostensible agency because no reasonable person would believe Chen was an agent  of Warmuth based upon a few statements on Warmuth’s firm website. Warmuth  contends ostensible agency can only be based upon statements Warmuth made.  Warmuth contends Plaintiff did not rely upon any 2014/2015 statements from  Warmuth’s firm website given his preexisting relationship with Chen dating back  to 2012. Warmuth contends Plaintiff hired Chen in 2012, when Chen was a sole  practitioner. Warmuth also contends there was no change in position because  Plaintiff continued his relationship with Chen through 2021.  In opposition, Plaintiff contends the complaint alleges both  Warmuth and Chen served as Plaintiff’s attorneys, that they performed legal services  and breached their duty of care to Plaintiff, and caused Plaintiff damages. Plaintiff  then argues that Chen cannot work under the Warmuth firm name without Warmuth  being potentially liable for Chen’s negligence. Plaintiff contends the law  makes clear, specifically the Rules of Professional Conduct, that a solo  practitioner cannot use a group trade name to advertise their individual services  without identifying themselves as solo practitioners or otherwise mislead  people regarding their status as a solo practitioner. Plaintiff references  allegations in the complaint regarding Chen’s profile on Warmuth’s website, and  that Warmuth represented to Plaintiff that Chen worked for Warmuth. Plaintiff  also contends Warmuth is liable under a de facto partnership or partnership by  estoppel theory. Plaintiff further contends the complaint alleges facts  demonstrating that both Warmuth and Chen were parties to the contract for legal  services and breached their obligations thereunder.  Analysis  Whether an ostensible agency relationship exists is  generally a question of fact unless there is only one way to view the facts. (Kaplan v. Coldwell Banker Residential Affiliates, Inc.  (1997) 59 Cal.App.4th 741, 748; Metro. Life Ins. Co. v. State  Bd. of Equalization (1982) 32 Cal.3d 649, 658.) Questions of fact  are generally not suitable for resolution on a motion for judgment on the  pleadings. (See M.F. v. Pac. Pearl Hotel Mgmt. LLC (2017) 16 Cal.App.5th  693, 703 (M.F.) [questions of fact generally not suitable for  demurrer].)  The Court finds Warmuth’s arguments unavailing. The  complaint alleges facts from which an ostensible agency relationship could be  found, such as Chen being listed on Warmuth’s firm website, Warmuth representing  to Plaintiff that Chen was an attorney working at Warmuth’s firm, and Chen  representing to Plaintiff he was an attorney working for Warmuth’s firm.  (Compl., ¶¶ 9, 26.) Given this is a motion for judgment on the pleadings, the  Court assumes these allegations to be true. (People ex rel. Harris v. Pac Anchor  Transportation, Inc. (2014) 59 Cal.4th 772, 777.) These allegations  also demonstrate a question of fact not suitable for resolution on a motion for  judgment on the pleadings. (See M.F., supra, 16 Cal.App.5th at p. 703.)  Moreover, the Court agrees with Plaintiff that the complaint  alleges facts demonstrating a breach of contract claim against Warmuth. The  complaint alleges that Plaintiff on the one hand and Warmuth and Chen on the  other entered into an agreement for legal services, confirmed by invoices and  correspondence, and that Warmuth and Chen breached that contract by failing to  perform as agreed, thus causing damage to Plaintiff. (Compl., ¶¶ 8-24, 34-38.) Again,  the Court assumes these allegations to be true at this stage of the litigation.  (People ex rel. Harris v. Pac Anchor Transportation, Inc.  (2014) 59 Cal.4th 772, 777.) These same allegations are also sufficient to  support Plaintiff’s claims for professional negligence and breach of fiduciary  duty.  Based on the foregoing, the Court DENIES the motion for judgment  on the pleadings.  CONCLUSION  The Court DENIES the motion for judgment on the pleadings.               Plaintiff Imran Haddish is ordered  to give notice of the Court’s ruling within five calendar days of this order.