 Case Number:  23PSCV03157    Hearing Date:   November 4, 2024    Dept:  6 CASE  NAME:  Carlos  Gaspar v. Ford Motor Company  1  – Plaintiff’s Motion to Compel Further Responses to Plaintiff’s Requests for  Production of Documents, Set One; and 2  – Plaintiff’s Motion to Compel Further Responses to Plaintiff’s Special  Interrogatories, Set One  TENTATIVE  RULING  The Court DENIES the motion to compel further  responses as to Request Number 8. The Court GRANTS the motion in part as to Request  Numbers 10 through 14, 27, and 28, but limited to the same year, make and model  vehicles sold in California, with the same alleged defects. Defendant must  provide such further responses, including responsive documents, within 20 days  of the Court’s order. Defendant must also provide a privilege log for any  documents withheld on the basis of privilege.  The Court GRANTS Plaintiff’s motion to compel further  responses as to Special Interrogatories Numbers 8, 12, 13, 18, 20, 21, and 22.  The Court DENIES the motion as to Special Interrogatories Numbers 2, 7, 19, and  26. Defendant must  provide such further responses within 20 days of the Court’s order.  Plaintiff is ordered to give notice of the Court’s ruling within  five calendar days of this order.  BACKGROUND  This is a lemon law case. On October 11, 2023, plaintiff Carlos  Gaspar (Plaintiff) filed this action against defendant Ford Motor Company (Defendant)  and Does 1 through 50, alleging causes of action for violation of subdivision  (d) of Civil Code section 1793.2, violation of subdivision (b) of Civil Code  section 1793.2, violation of subdivision (a)(3) of Civil Code section 1793.2,  breach of express warranty, and breach of the implied warranty of merchantability.  On September 19, 2024, Plaintiff moved to compel responses to  written discovery requests. On October 22, 2024, Defendant opposed the motions.  On October 28, 2024, Plaintiff replied to both oppositions.  LEGAL  STANDARD  Code of Civil Procedure section 2030.300,  subdivision (a), provides that on receipt of a response to interrogatories, the  propounding party may move for an order compelling a further response if the  propounding party deems that any of the following apply:              (1) An answer to a particular  interrogatory is evasive or incomplete. (2) An exercise of the option to produce  documents under Section 2030.230 is unwarranted or the required  specification of those documents is inadequate. (3) An objection to an interrogatory is  without merit or too general.  (Code Civ.  Proc., § 2030.300, subd. (a).)              Code of Civil Procedure section  2031.310, subdivision (a), provides that on receipt of a response to a request  for production of documents, the demanding party may move for an order  compelling further responses if: (1) A statement of compliance with the demand  is incomplete. (2) A representation of inability to comply is  inadequate, incomplete, or evasive. (3) An objection in the response is without  merit or too general.  (Code Civ.  Proc., § 2031.310, subd. (a).)  EVIDENTIARY  OBJECTIONS              The Court OVERRULES Plaintiff’s  evidentiary objections.  DISCUSSION – Requests for  Production of Documents  Meet and Confer – Requests for Production of Documents  Per Code of Civil Procedure section 2031.310, subdivision (b)(2), Plaintiff  was required to provide a declaration indicating efforts to meet and confer  before bringing this motion. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.310, subd. (b)(2).) The  Court finds Plaintiff’s efforts to meet and confer sufficient. (Rivero Decl.,  ¶¶ 23-25, Exs. 10-12.)              Summary of Arguments – Requests for  Production of Documents              Plaintiff seeks to compel further  responses to Requests for Production of Documents, Set One, Request Numbers 8,  10-14, 27, and 28. Plaintiff contends Defendant’s refusal to provide  meaningful, substantive responses evinces a lack of good faith. Plaintiff  contends Defendant’s responses to these requests are nonresponsive statements  couched in boilerplate objections. Plaintiff contends the requests are directly  relevant to Plaintiff’s claims under the Song-Beverly Act and that the  requested documents are relevant to the issues related to Defendant’s good  faith compliance with the Song-Beverly Act, including breach of the express  warranty and implied warranty of merchantability.  Plaintiff contends whether the same defects were reported to  Defendant in other cars of the same, make, model, and year as Plaintiff’s  vehicle is relevant to whether Defendant acted reasonably in Plaintiff’s  specific case. Plaintiff also contends the requested documents are necessary to  support Plaintiff’s claims because they will establish that Defendant is and  has been aware of the transmission defect, that the transmission defect is  ongoing, that Defendant lacks any means of fixing it, and Defendant willfully  violated the Song-Beverly Act by failing to repurchase Plaintiff’s vehicle.  Plaintiff contends the requested documents may also help preempt any claims  Defendant may make regarding he transmission defect either being insubstantial  or that it has been repaired. Plaintiff also contends courts routinely compel  production of documents similar to those requested here.  In opposition, Defendant contends Plaintiff’s motion should be  denied because Defendant responded and objected properly. Defendant contends it  produced documents to Plaintiff’s extremely broad requests and advised  Plaintiff that documents regarding communications and reports with government  agencies were publicly available. Defendant contends the Workshop Manual for  the 2020 Ford F-250 is thousands of pages long and contains largely irrelevant  information, and that Defendant offered to produce the specific sections of the  manual that were referenced during the service or repair of the subject  vehicle. Defendant contends Plaintiff’s motion fails to substantiate why  Defendant’s responses are inadequate. Defendant also contends Plaintiff’s  requests lack reasonable particularity. Defendant further argues Plaintiff’s  motion should be denied because the requests at issue are overly broad, unduly  burdensome, and seek irrelevant information. Defendant also contends its  attorney-client privilege and work product objections should be sustained.              Analysis – Requests for  Production of Documents              Regarding Request Number 8, the Court finds persuasive  Defendant’s argument that its access to the Workshop Manual does not permit a simple  “print all” type of production. (Opp., 5:13-23.) Also, if only small portions  of the thousand-plus page manual are relevant, then it would be improper to  require Defendant to produce all of it. (See Alpine Mut. Water Co. v.  Superior Ct. for Ventura Cnty. (1968) 259 Cal.App.2d 45, 51 [an  objection of oppression may be sustained where the ultimate result does not  warrant the amount of work it would require to comply with the request].) If  Plaintiff is unwilling to review the Table of Contents and request specific  relevant portions of the Manual, then the Court DENIES the motion as to Request  Number 8.              With respect to Request Numbers 10 through 14, 27 and 28,  the Court agrees with Defendant that the requests are overly broad, as they are  not limited in scope, such as to similar vehicles sold in California. (See Mead Reinsurance Co. v. Superior Ct. (1986) 188  Cal.App.3d 313, 317.) The Court finds that the requests otherwise encompass  non-objectionable information. The Court therefore will GRANT the motion in  part, but only as to the same year, make and model vehicles sold in California,  with the same alleged defects. If Defendant seeks to withhold documents on the  basis of privilege, Defenant must provide a privilege log.                        Based on the foregoing, the Court DENIES the motion to  compel further responses as to Request Number 8. The Court GRANTS the motion in  part as to Request Numbers 10 through 14, 27, and 28, but limited to the same  year, make and model vehicles sold in California, with the same alleged defects.  Defendant must provide a privilege log for any documents withheld on the basis  of privilege. DISCUSSION – Special  Interrogatories  Meet and Confer - Special Interrogatories  Per Code of Civil Procedure section 2030.300, subdivision (b)(1), Plaintiff  was required to provide a declaration indicating efforts to meet and confer  before bringing this motion. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.300, subd. (b)(1).) The  Court finds Plaintiff’s efforts to meet and confer sufficient. (Rivero Decl.,  ¶¶ 23-25, Exs. 10-12.)              Summary of Arguments – Special  Interrogatories                        Plaintiff seeks to compel further  responses to Special Interrogatories Numbers 2, 7, 8, 12, 13, 18 through 22,  and 26. Plaintiff’s arguments here are largely similar to those discussed above  regarding the Requests for Production of Documents. Plaintiff contends  Defendant’s refusal to provide meaningful, substantive responses evinces a lack  of good faith. Plaintiff contends Defendant’s responses to these  interrogatories are evasive, incomplete, and couched in boilerplate objections.  Plaintiff contends the interrogatories are directly relevant to Plaintiff’s  claims under the Song-Beverly Act and that the requested information is  relevant to the issues related to Defendant’s good faith compliance with the  Song-Beverly Act, including breach of the express warranty and implied warranty  of merchantability.              Plaintiff then contends the  requested information is necessary to support Plaintiff's claims, as the  disputed interrogatories seek information concerning Defendant's internal  investigation and analysis of the transmission defect plaguing Plaintiff’s  vehicle and establishing that Defendant previously knew of that defect but  nevertheless failed to repurchase the vehicle. Plaintiff contends the requested  information is within the scope of discovery and that courts routinely compel  production of the information requested here.              In opposition, Defendant contends it  properly answered and objected to these Special Interrogatories. Defendant  contends it identified and produced the repair orders that it obtained from the  Ford dealership that repaired the subject vehicle. Defendant contends it also  identified and produced its warranty claim history information and Field  Service Action history. Defendant contends Plaintiff’s motion fails to  substantiate why Defendant’s answers are inadequate. Defendant further contends  it asserted appropriate objections to these interrogatories, as they seek  information protected by the attorney-client privilege and work product  doctrine, as well as potentially seek information regarding Ford’s potential  experts’ analyses.              Analysis – Special  Interrogatories              With  respect to Special Interrogatories Numbers 2, 19, and 26, the Court finds the  scope of these requests to be overly broad, as they are not limited to similar  vehicles sold in California. (See Mead Reinsurance Co. v. Superior Ct. (1986) 188  Cal.App.3d 313, 317.) But, the Court also finds the objections based on  privilege to Numbers 19 and 26 to be unavailing, as the existence of a document  (or database in the case of Number 26) is not considered privileged, even if  the document contains privileged information. (See Hernandez v. Superior Ct.  (2003) 112 Cal.App.4th 285, 293.) The Court finds that the requests otherwise encompass  non-objectionable information. However, Defendant identified numerous documents  to be produced in response to these interrogatories. Plaintiff fails to  identify how the responses are inadequate or what additional information should  be compelled. The Court therefore will DENY the motion as to Numbers 2, 19, and  26. If Defendant seeks to withhold documents on the basis of privilege,  Defenant must provide a privilege log.              Regarding Special Interrogatory Number 7, the Court finds  Defendant identified numerous documents in response to this interrogatory.  Plaintiff fails to identify how the response is inadequate or what additional  information should be compelled. The Court therefore will DENY the motion as to  Number 7. If Defendant seeks to withhold documents on the basis of privilege,  Defenant must provide a privilege log.              Regarding Special Interrogatories Numbers 8, 12, 13, 20,  21, and 22, the Court does not find Defendant’s arguments or objections  persuasive. These requests merely ask Defendant to identify the person or existence  of certain documents. As noted above, the existence of a document is not  privileged. (Hernandez v. Superior Ct., supra, 112 Cal.App.4th at p. 293.) The Court therefore will GRANT  the motion as to Special Interrogatories Numbers  8, 12, 13, 20, 21, and 22.              Regarding Special Interrogatory Number 18, the Court  finds the request prematurely encompass expert witness information and may implicate  the attorney work product privilege. (City of Alhambra v. Superior  Ct. (1980) 110 Cal.App.3d 513, 520-521 [whether an interrogatory  prematurely seeks information is within the discretion of the trial court]; Coito v. Superior Ct. (2012) 54 Cal.4th 480, 499, 502  [identities of witness may qualify for either absolute work product protection  or qualified work product protection].) However, to the extent, Defendant  previously made that determination prior to this litigation, Plaintiff is  entitled to discover the identity of the people making that determination. The  Court therefore will GRANT the motion as to Special Interrogatory Number 18 as  it relates to any decision made prior to the filing of the Complaint.              Based on the foregoing, the Court GRANTS Plaintiff’s  motion to compel further responses as to Special Interrogatories Numbers 8, 12,  13, 18, 20, 21, and 22. The Court DENIES the motion as to Special  Interrogatories Numbers 2, 7, 19, and 26.  CONCLUSION  The Court DENIES the motion to compel further  responses as to Request Number 8. The Court GRANTS the motion in part as to Request  Numbers 10 through 14, 27, and 28, but limited to the same year, make and model  vehicles sold in California, with the same alleged defects. Defendant must  provide such further responses, including responsive documents, within 20 days  of the Court’s order. Defendant must also provide a privilege log for any  documents withheld on the basis of privilege.  The Court GRANTS Plaintiff’s motion to compel further responses as to Special Interrogatories Numbers 8, 12, 13, 18, 20, 21, and 22. The Court DENIES the motion as to Special Interrogatories Numbers 2, 7, 19, and 26. Defendant must provide such further responses within 20 days of the Court’s order.  Plaintiff is ordered to give notice of the Court’s ruling within  five calendar days of this order.