..................... ..................... ..................... ......
The summary displayed below was created by an LLM named 'llama3-8b-8192':
Here is a summary of the judge's tentative ruling in YAML format:

```
Case Number: 22STCV26384
Hearing Date: September 13, 2024
Dept: 52
Defendants' Motion: Summary Judgment or Summary Adjudication

Plaintiff:
Lajos "Lali" Hugyetz

Defendants:
Equinox Holdings, Inc., Equinox Group, LLC, Equinox Fitness Sepulveda, Inc. (collectively, "Equinox"), Sadie Huang, and Joseph Hannant

People-Names:
Lajos "Lali" Hugyetz, Connor Harrington, Sadie Huang, Joseph Hannant

Company-Names:
Equinox Holdings, Inc., Equinox Group, LLC, Equinox Fitness Sepulveda, Inc., Reed Group

Places:
None

Dates:
January 3, 2021, January 28, 2022, February 14, 2022, February 22, 2022

Events:
Plaintiff's employment at Equinox, Plaintiff's requests for accommodation, Plaintiff's termination

Money:
None

Intentions:
Equinox's intentions regarding Plaintiff's employment and accommodation requests

Facts:
Plaintiff's disability, Plaintiff's work restrictions, Plaintiff's requests for accommodation, Plaintiff's termination

Disputes:
Plaintiff's disputes with Equinox regarding accommodation and termination

Acts:
Plaintiff's acts of requesting accommodation and termination

Agreements:
None

Laws:
California Fair Employment and Housing Act (FEHA), California Family Rights Act (CFRA)

Case Citations:
None

Statutes:
California Code of Regulations, title 2, sections 7293.6, 11065

Roles:
Judge, Plaintiff, Defendants

Significant Statements:
1. Plaintiff has a disability that limits his ability to participate in major life activities.
2. Equinox did not provide a reasonable accommodation for Plaintiff's disability.
3. Plaintiff's termination was discriminatory and retaliatory.
4. Equinox failed to engage in an interactive process to determine a reasonable accommodation for Plaintiff's disability.
5. Equinox's failure to prevent discrimination and harassment from occurring was a cause of plaintiff's harm.
6. The evidence presented raises triable issues of material fact regarding Plaintiff's FEHA claims.
```

The judge's tentative ruling states that:

* The 1st and 4th causes of action (failure to accommodate and failure to engage in the interactive process) are triable issues of material fact and cannot be decided by summary judgment or summary adjudication.
* The 2nd, 3rd, and 5th causes of action (disability discrimination, retaliation, and failure to prevent discrimination and harassment) are triable issues of material fact and cannot be decided by summary judgment or summary adjudication.
* The 6th and 7th causes of action (intentional infliction of emotional distress) are not supported by the evidence and are subject to summary adjudication in favor of the defendants.

The judge's tentative ruling is subject to change based on any objections or further briefing presented by the parties.
