 Case Number:  22STCV26384    Hearing Date:   September 13, 2024    Dept:  52 Defendants’ Motion for Summary
Judgment or Summary Adjudication
Defendants Equinox Holdings,
Inc., Equinox Group, LLC, Equinox Fitness Sepulveda, Inc. (collectively,
“Equinox”), Sadie Huang, and Joseph Hannant move for summary judgment of this action by plaintiff Lajos “Lali” Hugyetz.  In the alternative, defendants move for
summary adjudication of 11 issues: each of plaintiff’s nine causes of action
(with two issues for the second cause of action) and plaintiff’s claim for
punitive damages.
Evidentiary Objections
            Plaintiff
makes 21 objections to defendants’ evidence.  Many of the objections are on the grounds that
portions of witnesses’ declarations “[c]ontradict[] sworn testimony.”  The rules of evidence do not prohibit admitting
contradictory testimony.  Introducing
contradictory evidence is a way to establish triable issues of fact, not to
exclude evidence.  
            Plaintiff’s
objections Nos. 1-21 are overruled.
            Defendants
make five objections to plaintiff’s evidence. 
Objection Nos. 2 and 3 are sustained.  Objection Nos. 1, 4, and 5 are overruled.
Legal Standard for Summary Judgment or
Adjudication
Summary judgment should be
granted where no triable issues of fact exist and the moving party is entitled
to judgment as a matter of law.  (CCP §
437c(c); Villa v. McFerren (1995) 35
Cal.App.4th 733, 741.)  Courts use a
three-step analysis: “(1) identify the issues framed by the pleadings; (2)
determine whether the moving party has negated the opponent’s claims; and (3)
determine whether the opposition has demonstrated the existence of a triable,
material factual issue.”  (Hinesley v. Oakshade Town Center (2005)
135 Cal.App.4th 289, 294.)  Courts
“liberally construe the evidence in support of the party opposing summary
judgment and resolve doubts concerning the evidence in favor of that
party.”  (Dore v. Arnold Worldwide, Inc. (2006) 39 Cal.4th 384, 389.) 
1st Cause of
Action: Failure to Accommodate
            Triable issues
of material fact preclude summary adjudication of this cause of action.  “The elements of a failure to accommodate
claim are (1) the plaintiff has a disability under the FEHA, (2) the plaintiff
is qualified to perform the essential functions of the position, and (3) the
employer failed to reasonably accommodate the plaintiff’s disability.”  (Scotch v. Art Institute of California
(2009) 173 Cal.App.4th 986, 1009–1010.)
A. Disability
            Equinox argues plaintiff did not
have a disability.  It applies the
incorrect legal standard.  Equinox
contends, “Generally, a condition will not qualify as a disability under the
definition of either the federal and California statutes unless the alleged
impairments substantially limit the ability of the plaintiff to perform major
life activities, which includes such functions as: ‘caring for one’s self,
performing manual tasks, walking, seeing, hearing, speaking, breathing,
learning, and working’ Cal. Code Regs., tit. 2, § 7293.6, subd. (e)(1)(A)(2)(a)…
.”  (Memo, p. 18.)  
This
statement is wrong for two reasons. 
First, under FEHA, a disability is a
condition that “limit[s] (as opposed to substantially limit[s], as required
under federal law) the plaintiff’s ability to participate in major life
activities.”  (Colmenares v. Braemar
Country Club, Inc. (2003) 29 Cal.4th 1019, 1031–1032.)  Second, Equinox cites an outdated regulation
that was renumbered over 10 years ago. 
The current regulation expressly provides that “Major life activities
include, but are not limited to” numerous actions including “standing” and
“lifting.”  (Cal. Code Regs., tit. 2, §
11065(l)(1).)  As Equinox argues,
“As of February 23, 2022, Hugyetz’s only restrictions were that he could not
lift over 25 pounds, and stand for over an hour.”  (Memo, p. 18.)  Both restrictions impact major life
activities.  Whether plaintiff had a
disability is therefore a triable issue of material fact.
B. Accommodation
            Equinox also argues it
fully accommodated plaintiff’s work restrictions by permitting him to do floor
shifts without standing for more than one hour at a time and without lifting
over 25 pounds.  Plaintiff, however,
shows triable issues of fact on that question. 
At his deposition, Connor Harrington testified: “Q: … Other than
temporarily accommodating Mr. Hugyetz’s work restrictions and provide
information to Mr. Hugyetz to contact Reed Group, is there any other things
that Equinox did in response to Mr. Hugyetz notifying Equinox of his work
restrictions and orthopedic condition?  A:
Other than the manager connecting to follow up on the status of the request to
open and submit paperwork to the Reed Group, I don't believe so.  Q: At a point in time, did Ms. Huang put Mr.
Hugyetz back on floor shifts? A: Yes.” 
(Opp. Ex. 89, Harrington Depo., 171:14-25.)  From this testimony, one could conclude Equinox
only said it would accommodate plaintiff’s work restrictions but did not
actually implement any accommodations.
Moreover, plaintiff testified at deposition, “Q: Now, why do
you say it was almost impossible not to lift over 25 pounds when you could ask
someone else to do it or help? A: A lot of times, I -- I couldn't ask anybody
else because that -- I was the only person on the floor, and nobody was around.
 The other trainers were training their
clients, and the maintenance people, they don’t lift heavy weights or it’s not
their job; so yeah, it was kind of like a requirement during the floor
shifts.”  (Opp. Ex. 93, Hugyetz Depo.,
vol. 2, 302:18-303:1.)  Based on this
evidence, a trier of fact could find there was no practical way for plaintiff
to do floor shifts without violating his work restrictions.
Equinox argues exempting plaintiff from floor shifts would
require eliminating essential functions. 
“The reasonableness of an accommodation generally is a question of
fact.”  (Nealy v. City of Santa Monica
(2015) 234 Cal.App.4th 359, 374.)  But
“FEHA does not obligate the employer to accommodate the employee by excusing
him or her from the performance of essential functions.”  (Id. at p. 375.)  Generally, “the essential functions of a job are a question of
fact.”  (Hastings v. Department of
Corrections (2003) 110 Cal.App.4th 963, 968, fn. 6.)  “Evidence of whether a particular function is
essential includes” several factors such as “[t]he amount of time spent on the
job performing the function”, “[t]he legitimate business consequences of not
requiring the incumbent to perform the function,” “[t]he work experience of
past incumbents in the job,” and “[t]he current work experience of incumbents
in similar jobs.”  (Cal. Code Regs., tit.
2, § 11065(e)(2).)
Plaintiff’s evidence demonstrates a triable issue on whether
floor shifts were an essential function of plaintiff’s job.  In May 2021, plaintiff received an email
about the requirements to do floor shifts: “All returning trainers will be
assigned 2, 1, or 0 [floor shifts] based on May productivity.”  (Opp. Ex. 55.)  Plaintiff presents a monthly schedule showing
five trainers were assigned 0 floor shifts. 
(Opp. Ex. 54.)  At deposition,
Hannant testified: “ Q: … Did at least some personal trainers not have to work
floor shifts during the time you were an MNR manager? A: Yes.  Q: … How many would you estimate? A: Five or
six maybe.”  (Opp. Ex. 89, Hannant Depo.,
94:17-22.)  
Evidence that the most productive trainers were not required
to do floor shifts permits a factfinder to conclude those shifts were not
essential.  This evidence suggests skipping
floor shifts was a privilege that a personal trainer could earn.  A reasonable trier of fact could find it would
have been reasonable to permit plaintiff to have that privilege as a disability
accommodation.  
Claims
Under California Family Rights Act
            Equinox does
not meet its initial burden for summary adjudication of plaintiff’s second and
fourth causes of action as to the portions based on the California Family
Rights Act (CFRA).  To qualify for CFRA
leave, an employee must “ha[ve] at least 1,250 hours of service with the
employer during the previous 12-month period.” 
(Gov. Code, § 12954.2, subd. (a).) 
Equinox purports to present evidence that plaintiff worked about 403.55
hours from January 3, 2021, to January 28, 2022.  (Memo, p. 25; UMF 130.)  But the evidence cited does not show
that.  
Defendants
cite the declaration of Connor Harrington, paragraph 4 and exhibit 5.  Harrington testifies exhibit 5 shows
plaintiff’s s “relevant wage statements from October 2021 to December 2021
& corresponding hours and earnings report.” 
(Harrington Decl., ¶ 4.)  Exhibit
5, meanwhile, includes (a) pay statements from August 1, 2021, to February 12,
2022 and (b) a table showing hours worked from June 25, 2021, to January 26,
2022.  (Id., Ex. 5.)  This evidence concerns only about half of the
relevant 12-month period.  Defendants
also cite the declaration of Sadie Huang, paragraphs 14-22 and exhibit 5—none
of which pertain to how many hours plaintiff worked in the year before any CFRA
leave.
2nd & 4th
Causes of Action: Disability Discrimination and Retaliation 
            Triable issues of material fact
preclude summary adjudication of plaintiff’s second and fourth causes of
action.  
A. Direct
Evidence
The
typical burden-shifting framework used in most discrimination and retaliation
cases does “not apply in discrimination cases where … the plaintiff presents
direct evidence of the employer’s motivation for the adverse employment action.”  (Wallace v. County of Stanislaus
(2016) 245 Cal.App.4th 109, 123.)  “[D]isability
discrimination cases often involve direct evidence of the role of the employee’s
actual or perceived disability in the employer’s decision to implement an
adverse employment action.  Instead of
litigating the employer’s reasons for the action, the parties’ disputes in
disability cases focus on whether the employee was able to perform essential
job functions, whether there were reasonable accommodations that would have
allowed the employee to perform those functions, and whether a reasonable
accommodation would have imposed an undue hardship on the employer.”  (Ibid.)
Equinox
asserts it terminated plaintiff for job abandonment, including for missing
numerous “floor shifts” at the gym where plaintiff worked.  As discussed under the first case of action,
plaintiff presents evidence sufficient to permit a trier of fact to conclude
excusing him from floor shifts would have been a reasonable accommodation.  A trier of fact could thus conclude that
terminating plaintiff for not working floor shifts constituted discrimination
based on disability or retaliation for his request for reasonable
accommodation.  
B.
Burden-Shifting Framework
Triable
issues of material fact would also preclude summary adjudication under the
typical burden-shifting framework.  Under
this framework, “[a]n employer defendant may meet its initial burden … by
presenting evidence that either negates an element of the employee’s
prima facie case, or establishes a legitimate nondiscriminatory reason for
taking the adverse employment action against the employee.”  (Swanson v. Morongo Unified School Dist.
(2014) 232 Cal.App.4th 954, 966 (Swanson).)  Once the defendant does so, the plaintiff
“need only present evidence establishing a triable issue on the specific
element the [defendant] challenges.”  (Id.
at p. 968.)
Equinox
meets its initial burden by showing plaintiff cannot establish the element of
causation and by presenting evidence of nondiscriminatory reasons for terminating
him.  A prima facie case for these claims
requires showing that discrimination or retaliation “was a substantial motivating factor” for
terminating him.  (Harris v. City of
Santa Monica (2013) 56 Cal.4th 203, 232 (Harris), italics in original.)
Equinox
presents evidence it terminated plaintiff for legitimate reasons.  Connor Harrington testifies, “Hugyetz was
terminated for job abandonment after his repeated violations of Equinox’s Floor
Shift Expectations, Attendance and Time Off policies, and lack of
professionalism.”  (Harrington Decl., ¶ 10.)  Equinox presents evidence plaintiff failed to
report for floor shifts (or find someone else to cover those shifts) numerous
times, including some before he requested any accommodation for his
disabilities.  (See, e.g., Huang Decl.,
Exs. 4, 8, 9.)
After
the employer presents evidence of a nondiscriminatory reason for the adverse
action, the employee “ ‘must offer substantial evidence that the employer’s
stated nondiscriminatory reason for the adverse action was untrue or
pretextual, or evidence the employer acted with a discriminatory animus, or a
combination of the two, such that a reasonable trier of fact could conclude the
employer engaged in intentional discrimination.’  [Citation.] 
‘[T]he employee [cannot] simply show the employer’s decision was wrong,
mistaken, or unwise.  Rather, the
employee “ ‘must demonstrate such weaknesses, implausibilities,
inconsistencies, incoherencies, or contradictions in the employer’s proffered
legitimate reasons for its action that a reasonable factfinder could rationally
find them “unworthy of credence,” [citation], and hence infer “that the
employer did not act for the [... asserted] non-discriminatory reasons.” ’ ” ’
”  (Nakai v. Friendship House Assn. of
American Indians, Inc. (2017) 15 Cal.App.5th 32, 39.)
“While
‘pretext’ is certainly a relevant issue … [t]he central issue is … whether the
evidence as a whole supports a reasoned inference that the challenged action
was the product of discriminatory or retaliatory animus.”  (Mamou v. Trendwest Resorts, Inc. (2008)
165 Cal.App.4th 686, 715.)  “[C]iting a
legitimate reason for the challenged action will entitle the employer to
summary judgment only when the employee’s showing, while sufficient to invoke
the presumption [of discrimination or retaliation], is too weak to
sustain a reasoned inference in the employee’s favor.”  (Ibid., italics in original; accord Guz,
supra, 24 Cal.4th at pp. 361-362; Zamora v. Security Industry
Specialists, Inc. (2021) 71 Cal.App.5th 1, 54-57.)
Plaintiff
meets his burden of presenting sufficient evidence to to sustain a reasoned
inference of discrimination or retaliation. 
He presents evidence permitting an inference that Huang and Hannant plotted
to get him fired for missing work as a pretext for discrimination or
retaliation.  Plaintiff presents text
messages between Huang and Hannant shortly before he was terminated.  (Opp., Ex. 21.)  In one, Hannant wrote, “Lajos hasn’t shown yet nor clocked
in.”  (Id., p.
HUGYETZ001475.)  Huang replied, “Of course
he hasn’t.  He told me he would be away
but I told him that I can’t keep being flexible – he’s been off for 3
months.  So I’m going to write him up and
hopefully that will push him to quit eventually.”  (Ibid.) 
Hannant reacted to the message with a heart emoji.  (Ibid.)  
In another exchange, Huang
proposed, “So I can shift Lajos up to 2-4pm because I think that’s better for
his scheduled anyway (in general) [¶] Or I can give them to [redacted] and keep
Lajos on 4-6pm bc we know that doesn’t work for him [¶] And push him out.”  (Opp., Ex. 21, p. HUGYETZ001476.)  Hannant replied, “I say keep Lajos.”  (Ibid.)  These messages suggest Huang and Hannant
knowingly scheduled plaintiff for shifts he could not attend because they
wanted him to either quit or be fired.  
Plaintiff also presents
evidence that Huang and Hannant made comments about him from which one can
infer animus against him based on his disability or protected activity.  Hannant wrote to Huang, “Is there a way to
check w Reed Group to see his status? 
Just wondering how long he & [redacted] are gonna keep doing this ‘I
can’t work floor shifts’ thing.”  (Opp.,
Ex. 21, p. HUGYETZ001471.)  He further
wrote, “I could totally see both of them Lieing [sic] to us to get off the
floor.”  (Ibid.)  “What’s keeping them around?  Think the free health insurance?  [¶] 
They clearly don’t wanna work anymore than they are now.”  (Ibid.)  
Similarly, on January 15,
2022, Huang wrote to Hannant, “Freaken senior trainers… the [redacted] the
Lajos, etc. so entitled!”  (Opp. Ex. 21,
p. HUGYETZ001480.)  Hannant later asked
Huang, “Lajos say anything about his floor shift for today?”  (Id., p. HUGYETZ001484.)  Huang replied, “Nothing.  [¶] 
The ROD tomorrow will for the missed PDM, missed floor shift for
yesterday and today.  So annoyed.”  (Ibid.)  Hannant responded, “Yea… we spend so much
time on the 3% of people that mean nothing!” 
(Ibid.)   
These
text messages thus indicate plaintiff’s superiors were unhappy with him because
of his requested accommodations.  A
reasonable trier of fact could infer Equinox terminated plaintiff because of
his disability and his requests for accommodation. 
Equinox
argues it ultimately terminated plaintiff for failing to return from an
unapproved leave of absence.  On January
23, 2022, plaintiff wrote to Huang and Hannant, “This Friday I will have to
travel to see my mother who has various medical issues.  …  I
anticipate I will be out of work for three weeks and will alert you if that changes.”  (Huang Decl., Ex. 11, pp. 68-69.)  On February 5, Huang wrote, “How is your
mother? Hope her medical appointments are going well.  We also would like to inform you that since
you did not fill out a Time Off Request form and that this was not an approved
leave, you will have to return to work within 15 days from today.”  (Opp. Ex. 10, p. HUGYETZ000847.)  
On
February 14, plaintiff replied, “[I] will try to be back in about one week I’m
hoping.  Please send me any form that you
say I needed to fill out.”  (Opp., Ex.
10, p. HUGYETZ000846.)  Huang replied,
“As mentioned, the Time Off Request form needed to be
filled out and approved 30 days prior to the dates of travel.  Since this was not the case, you need to
return by Monday, 02/21/2022 for your 4PM - 6PM PST floor shift.”  (Ibid.)  
It
is undisputed that plaintiff did not return for that shift.  Plaintiff repeatedly argues he was on
“approved” leave based on the following interrogatory response: “Plaintiff was
terminated on February 22, 2022 due to repeated violations of Defendant’s
Attendance and Punctuality policy as he was on an approved leave at the time of
his termination.”  (Opp. Ex. 24, special
interrogatory No. 18.)  Defendants’ reply
brief persuasively argues that was a typo. 
The documentary evidence created at the time of these events, as
discussed above, unequivocally shows his leave was only approved up to February
21.  
This
evidence does not preclude a trier of fact from inferring discrimination or
retaliation were substantially motivating reasons for terminating
plaintiff.  As discussed above, plaintiff
presents evidence defendants wanted to fire him before he left the country to
take care of his mother.  A factfinder
could conclude that, but for plaintiff’s disability and protected activity,
Equinox would have given him more time to return.  
Based
on the evidence regarding plaintiff’s failure to return by February 21, 2022, a
trier of fact could conclude Equinox would have terminated plaintiff regardless
of any discrimination.  But rather than a
defense to liability, that would merely limit plaintiff’s remedies.  (Harris, supra, 56 Cal.4th at pp. 240-242.)  
3rd
Cause of Action: Disability Harassment
            Defendants meet their burden of
showing they are entitled to summary adjudication of this cause of action.  “To
prevail on a harassment claim under FEHA, a plaintiff must produce evidence
they were subjected to ‘offensive comments or other abusive conduct’ that is
(1) based on a ‘protected characteristic’ … and (2) ‘sufficiently severe or
pervasive as to alter the conditions of [his] employment.’ ”  (Doe
v. Department of Corrections & Rehabilitation (2019) 43 Cal.App.5th
721, 736 (Doe).)  “To constitute
harassment, the conduct must be so objectively severe or pervasive as ‘ “to
create a hostile or abusive working environment.” ’  [Citation.] 
Factors to consider in this context include the frequency of the conduct,
its severity, whether it is physically threatening or humiliating, and whether
it unreasonably interferes with the employee’s work performance.’ ”  (Ibid.)  
In contrast with
discrimination, which concerns unequal
terms and conditions of employment, “harassment focuses on situations in
which the social environment of the workplace becomes
intolerable because the harassment (whether verbal, physical, or visual)
communicates an offensive message to the harassed employee.”  (Roby v. McKesson Corp. (2009) 47
Cal.4th 686, 706.)  “Harassment claims are based on a type of
conduct that is avoidable and unnecessary to job performance.”  (Reno v. Baird (1998) 18 Cal.4th 640,
646.)  There is a
“fundamental distinction between harassment as a type of conduct not necessary
to a supervisor’s job performance, and business or personnel management
decisions—which might later be considered discriminatory—as inherently
necessary to performance of a supervisor’s job.”  (Janken v. GM Hughes Electronics
(1996) 46 Cal.App.4th 55, 63 (Janken).) 

Defendants
establish that plaintiff relies solely on two things: (1) negative personnel
management actions, and (b) comments he did not know about.  Plaintiff’s opposition argues Huang and
Hannant harassed plaintiff by doing things, all but one category of which were
personnel actions.  For example,
plaintiff asserts, “Huang and Hannant falsely told Hugyetz they could no longer
exempt him from floor shifts as an accommodation unless it was approved by
ReedGroup.”  (Opp., p. 17.)  They “repeatedly disciplined and threatened
to terminate him if he did not work floor shifts.”  (Ibid.)  Those are personnel actions.  
Plaintiff relies
on comments by Hannant and Huang that “they were ‘annoyed’ by his accommodation
requests [and] concluded he ‘mean[t] nothing’ to them as a ‘freaken senior
trainer’ who was only employed for ‘health insurance.’ ”  (Opp., p. 17.)  Assuming those comments were severe or
pervasive enough to create a hostile work environment, none of those comments
were made to plaintiff or in his presence. 
“Unless
plaintiff witnesses the” offensive conduct “or is otherwise aware of it, that
conduct cannot alter the conditions of [his or] her employment and create an
abusive working environment.  Stated
another way, a reasonable person in plaintiff’s position would not find the
environment hostile or abusive unless that person had knowledge of the
objectionable conduct.”  (Beyda v.
City of Los Angeles (1998) 65 Cal.App.4th 511, 520 [discussing offensive
conduct directed at others].)  
The plaintiff
must be “subjected
to ‘offensive comments or other abusive conduct.’ ”  (Doe, supra, 43 Cal.App.5th at p. 736,
italics added.)  The comments plaintiff
relies on were all made in private text messages between Hannant and
Huang.  (PF 20, 40, 41; Opp. Ex.
21.)  There is no evidence plaintiff knew
about them.  He could not be “subjected
to” harassment he was unaware of.
            Plaintiff’s reliance on Landucci v.
State Farm Insurance Company (N.D. Cal. 2014) 65 F.Supp.3d 694, 707 is
misplaced.  There, the plaintiff alleged
defendants “excessively monitor[ed], micromanag[ed], and criticiz[ed] Plaintiff
but not her male co-workers.”  (Ibid.)  The court ruled that those allegations
sufficed for harassment “because Plaintiff pleads that those official
supervisory actions consisted of a widespread pattern and were done in an ‘unnecessarily
demeaning manner.’ ”  (Ibid.)  Demeaning conduct affects the social
environment of the workplace.  Here, the
only demeaning conduct in the record occurred in private text messages between
supervisors.  There is no evidence
plaintiff knew about it.
5th Cause of Action: Failure
to Engage in
Interactive Process
Triable issues of
material fact preclude summary adjudication of this cause of action.  The essential elements of a cause of action
for failure to engage in the interactive process are: (1) the plaintiff has a
disability that was known to his employer; (2) the plaintiff requested that his
employer make a reasonable accommodation for that disability so he would be
able to perform the essential job requirements; (3) the plaintiff was willing
to participate in an interactive process to determine whether a reasonable
accommodation could be made; (4) the employer failed to participate in a
timely, good faith interactive process with the plaintiff; (5) the plaintiff
was harmed; and (6) the employer’s failure to engage in a good faith
interactive process was a substantial factor in causing the plaintiff's
harm.  (Gov. Code, § 12940, subd. (n);
CACI No. 2546.)  
Equinox argues plaintiff caused any breakdown in the process
because he did not submit required documentation.  Generally, whether the employer satisfied its
duty to “engage[] in an interactive process is a question of fact.”  (Salgado v. Iqvia, Inc. (S.D. Cal.
2020) 459 F.Supp.3d 1318, 1333, citing Wilson v. County of Orange (2009)
169 Cal.App.4th 1185, 1193.)  “ ‘Liability
hinges on the objective circumstances surrounding the parties’ breakdown in
communication, and responsibility for the breakdown lies with the party who
fails to participate in good faith.’ ”  (Swanson,
supra, 232 Cal.App.4th at p. 972.)  “
‘[T]he fact that an employer took some steps to work with an employee to
identify reasonable accommodations does not absolve the employer of liability…
.  If the employer is responsible for a
later breakdown in the process, it may be held liable.’ ”  (Ibid.)  
Plaintiff presents sufficient evidence to show a triable
issue of material fact on whether Equinox is liable for the breakdown in the
interactive process.  “ ‘[W]hen an
employee can work with a reasonable accommodation other than a leave of
absence, an employer may not require that the employee take a leave of
absence.’ ”  (Wallace v. County of
Stanislaus, supra, 245 Cal.App.4th at p. 134.)
Plaintiff presents evidence he requested an accommodation for
his work restrictions, but Equinox’s agent, ReedGroup, considered only one
possible accommodation: a leave of absence.  At deposition, Hugyetz testified that
ReedGroup “wanted me to – not to go to work” though he believed he could
continue to train clients and did not need a leave of absence.  (Opp. Ex. 93, Hugyetz Depo., vol. 2,
920:3-16.)  He further testified
ReedGroup “said I have to go on a medical leave and I am not going to be able
to train with my clients if I fill that paperwork out.”  (Opp. Ex. 94, Hugyetz Depo., vol. 3, 388:13-15.)  He testified, “I did explain to them I just
can’t do the floor shifts because of my disability.”  (Id., 389:22-23.)  
Equinox’s own evidence also shows that when an employee
requests accommodation, those assigned to respond to it are called the “Equinox
Leave Management Concierge.”  (Harrington
Decl., Exs. 6-8.)  
On this record, a reasonable jury could find Equinox liable
for this cause of action because it refused to consider effective
accommodations other than a leave of absence.
6th Cause of Action: Failure
to Prevent Discrimination, Harassment, or Retaliation
Equinox is not entitled to summary adjudication of this cause
of action.  Government Code section
12940, subdivision (k), provides that it is unlawful “[f]or an employer … to
fail to take all reasonable steps necessary to prevent discrimination and
harassment from occurring.”  This
subdivision “creates a separate actionable tort enforceable upon the
establishment of the usual tort elements of duty of care, breach of duty (a
negligent act or omission), causation, and damages.”  (Dickson v. Burke Williams, Inc.
(2015) 234 Cal.App.4th 1307, 1313.)  
Equinox argues this claim cannot stand on its own without an
underlying claim for violating FEHA.  (Trujillo
v. North County Transit Dist. (1998) 63 Cal.App.4th 280, 289.)  Triable issues of material fact preclude
summary adjudication of plaintiff’s FEHA claims.  The same therefore applies to this claim.
Equinox also argues it is not liable because it was never put
on notice of the alleged conduct.  Equinox
cites no authority that such notice is required.  It relies on authority about negligent
hiring, supervision, or retention of employees (Federico v. Superior Court
(Jenry G.) (1997) 59 Cal.App.4th 1207, 1213), which does not apply.  
Finally, Equinox contends it has strict anti-discrimination
policies.  That it has written policies does
not necessarily mean it did not take all reasonable steps to prevent
discrimination.  If a jury finds Equinox committed
the alleged discrimination and retaliation, it could also find Equinox failed
to take all reasonable steps to prevent that from occurring.
7th Cause of Action: Intentional
Infliction of Emotional Distress 
            Defendants
are entitled to summary adjudication of this cause of action.  Its elements are “(1) extreme and outrageous
conduct by the defendant with the intention of causing, or reckless disregard
of the probability of causing, emotional distress; (2) the plaintiff’s
suffering severe or extreme emotional distress; and (3) actual and proximate
causation of the emotional distress by the defendant's outrageous
conduct.”  (Hughes v. Pair (2009)
46 Cal.4th 1035, 1050.)  
            Defendants
establish plaintiff cannot prove the first element: extreme and outrageous
conduct.  “An essential element of such a
claim is a pleading of outrageous conduct beyond the bounds of human
decency.  [Citations.]  Managing personnel is not outrageous conduct
beyond the bounds of human decency, but rather conduct essential to the welfare
and prosperity of society.  A simple
pleading of personnel management activity is insufficient to support a claim of
intentional infliction of emotional distress, even if improper motivation is
alleged.  If personnel management
decisions are improperly motivated, the remedy is a suit against the employer
for discrimination.”  (Janken, supra,
46 Cal.App.4th at p. 80.)
As discussed regarding harassment,
plaintiff presents evidence only of personnel management.  That conduct may have been discriminatory,
but that does not make it actionable via the tort of intentional infliction of
emotional distress.
Plaintiff’s opposition argues, “[D]iscrimination
in the workplace is recognized as ‘extreme and outrageous’ for purposes of IIED.”  (Opp., p. 17.)  For that proposition, plaintiff cites Renteria
v. County of Orange (1978) 82 Cal.App.3d 833, 834—which did not consider
the issue.  There, “[t]he question
presented” was “whether an employee’s civil action against his employer and
fellow employees for intentional infliction of emotional distress is barred by
the exclusive remedy provisions of the Workers' Compensation Act.”  (Id. at pp. 834-835.)  The court emphasized that was “the only issue
presented.”  (Id. at p. 835.)  The court did not consider whether the complaint
alleged sufficient facts to meet the elements of intentional infliction of
emotional distress.  Janken, on
the other hand, is directly on point.
8th Cause of Action: Failure to Pay Wages
            Triable
issues of material fact preclude summary adjudication of this cause of action.  Plaintiff presents evidence he completed a
mandatory training that took “approximately six to eight hours” for which he
“ha[s] not been paid.”  (Hugyetz Decl., ¶
27.)  
Equinox argues “[t]here is no
evidence Hugyetz ever followed Huang’s instructions to communicate when he
should be clocked in and out for the training.” 
(Memo, p. 28.)  Equinox provides
no authority that an employer is excused from paying for an employee’s labor if
it fires him before learning about that labor. 
“[T]he required payment of earned wages is unconditional.”  (Singh v. Southland Stone, U.S.A., Inc.
(2010) 186 Cal.App.4th 338, 364.)  
9th Cause of Action: Failure to Provide
Personnel File and Payroll Records
            Equinox
does not meet its initial burden for summary adjudication of this cause of
action.  Plaintiff’s complaint alleges Equinox
violated obligations to provide employment records to an employee under Labor
Code sections 226, 432, and 1198.5.  Section
226, subdivision (b) provides that employers “shall afford current and former
employees the right to inspect or receive a copy of records pertaining to their
employment, upon reasonable request to the employer.”  Subdivision (c) provides that the employer
“shall comply with the request as soon as practicable, but no later than 21
calendar days from the date of the request.” 
Labor Code section 432, meanwhile, provides, “If an employee or
applicant signs any instrument relating to the obtaining or holding of
employment, he shall be given a copy of the instrument upon request.”  Finally, section 1198.5 requires employers to
permit current and former employees to inspect personnel records.  
Equinox argues this claim fails for
three reasons.  First, it asserts “Hugyetz
has no evidence that Equinox received his request for records.”  (Memo, p. 28.)  This argument puts the burden on the wrong
party.  Equinox must prove it did not
receive his request.  Moreover, Evidence
Code section 641 provides, “A letter correctly addressed and properly mailed is
presumed to have been received in the ordinary course of mail.”  
Second, Equinox argues “the letter
contains no signature, and thus, no way of verifying its authenticity.”  (Memo, p. 28.)  Again, this argument incorrectly puts the
burden on plaintiff instead of defendants.  A signature is not necessary to authenticate
documents.  (See Evid. Code, § 1401.)  And Labor Code section 226, subdivision (c)
permits an “oral request,” which cannot be signed.
Third, Equinox argues “the
Complaint was filed on August 15, 2022, and there is no obligation to produce
personnel records after a lawsuit is filed.” 
(Memo, p. 28.)  But plaintiff presents
evidence he sent the letter on July 12, 2022, and Equinox received it on July
15.  (Opp. Ex. 45.)  Equinox was required to permit plaintiff to
inspect the records within “21 calendar days” under Labor Code section 226,
subdivision (c) and within “30 calendar days” of receiving the request under Labor
Code section 1198.5, subdivision (b)(1). 
Equinox had until August 5 and August 14, respectively, to respond.  Those deadlines passed before plaintiff filed
the lawsuit.
Claim for Punitive Damages
            Defendants
are not entitled to summary adjudication of plaintiff’s claim for punitive
damages.  A defendant may move for
summary adjudication of a “claim for damages, as specified in Section 3294 of the
Civil Code” regarding punitive damages. 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (f)(1).) 
To recover punitive damages, a plaintiff must prove “by clear and convincing evidence that the defendant has been guilty of
oppression, fraud, or malice.”  (Civ.
Code, § 3294, subd. (a).)  
On summary adjudication, “ ‘the
judge must view the evidence presented through the prism of the substantive
[clear and convincing] evidentiary burden.’ ” 
(American Airlines, Inc. v. Sheppard, Mullin, Richter & Hampton
(2002) 96 Cal.App.4th 1017, 1049.)  “[A]lthough
the ‘clear and convincing’ evidentiary standard is a stringent one, it does not
impose on a plaintiff the obligation to ‘prove’ a case for punitive damages at
summary judgment.”  (Ibid.)  “Summary judgment or summary adjudication ‘ “
‘on the issue of punitive damages is proper’ only ‘when no reasonable jury
could find the plaintiff’s evidence to be clear and convincing proof of malice,
fraud or oppression.’ ” ’ ”  (Butte
Fire Cases (2018) 24 Cal.App.5th 1150, 1159.)  
A. Malice, Fraud, or Oppression
Based on the evidence discussed
above, the court cannot conclude that no reasonable trier of fact could find
clear and convincing evidence of malice, oppression, or fraud.  “[W]illfully
and consciously retaliat[ing] against” employees for exercising their rights
can constitute malicious or oppressive conduct sufficient for punitive
damages.  (Colucci v. T-Mobile USA, Inc. (2020)
48 Cal.App.5th 442, 455.)  The text
messages between Hannant and Huang, in particular, could permit a jury to
conclude defendants maliciously orchestrated a way reason to terminate
plaintiff for pretextual reasons.   
Equinox also argues it cannot be
liable for punitive damages because it had written anti-discrimination
policies.  It relies on the following
authority: “Although the issue is not presented here, and we do not address it
or offer our view on its merits, in future cases, if a company has a written
policy that specifically forbids retaliation against employees who testify at
unemployment hearings, it may operate to limit corporate liability for punitive
damages, as long as the employer implements the written policy in good faith.”  (White v. Ultramar, Inc. (1999) 21
Cal.4th 563, 568, fn. 2 (White).) 
This portion of the opinion is dicta. 
No published case in California has applied this rule to limit corporate
liability for punitive damages.  A reasonable
trier of fact who concludes Equinox is otherwise liable for punitive damages
could also conclude Equinox’s written policies were not implemented in good
faith.
B. Managing Agent
            Equinox
contends plaintiff cannot meet his burden of proving any oppression, fraud, or
malice was committed, ratified, or authorized by a director, officer, or
managing agent of the entity defendants. 
The law “limit[s] corporate punitive damage liability to those employees
who exercise substantial independent authority and judgment over decisions that
ultimately determine corporate policy.” 
(White, supra, 21 Cal.4th at p. 573.)  
Plaintiff presents evidence
permitting a trier of fact to make that finding as to at least one person: Mary
Lane.  She testified at deposition that she
created a LinkedIn profile where she “found a copy of [her] job description,
copied it, and pasted it into the experience section.”  (Opp. Ex. 87, Lane Depo., 52:4-7.)  The profile indicates she was “People
Services Area Manager” for Equinox. 
(Opp. Ex. 41.)  She wrote she was
“[h]uman resources manager for assigned 12 club-region of 500+ employees” and
her duties include to “[c]reate, update, and implement HR initiatives including
but not limited to: onboarding and orientation, training and development,
employee surveys, benefits enrollment, leave of absences, and performance
reviews.”  (Ibid.)  This evidence permits a finding that Lane
exercises substantial independent authority and judgment over corporate policy.

            Plaintiff
also presents evidence Lane authorized or ratified discrimination or
retaliation.  On February 2, 2022, Huang
wrote to Hannant, “Mary Lane approved my Final ROD for Lajos.  [¶] 
Now I’m going to work on the term.” 
(Opp., Ex. 21, p. HUGYETZ001501.) 
On February 21, 2022, Hannant sent a message to Huang stating that
terminating plaintiff “still has to pass the Mary Lane test.”  (Id. at p. HUGYETZ001503.)  
            On
this record, the court cannot conclude that no reasonable trier of fact could
find clear and convincing evidence that a managing agent authorized or ratified
oppressive, fraudulent, or malicious conduct.
Disposition
Defendants Equinox
Holdings, Inc., Equinox Group, LLC, Equinox Fitness Sepulveda, Inc. and Sadie
Huang’s motion for summary judgment is denied.  The court grants summary judgment in
favor of defendant Joseph Hannant.  The
court grants summary adjudication of plaintiff’s third and seventh
causes of action as against all defendants. 
The court denies summary adjudication of all other causes of
action and of plaintiff’s claim for punitive damages.