  Case Number:  21STCV31654    Hearing Date:   September 13, 2024    Dept:  52 Plaintiff
Alexis Mitchell’s Motion to Quash Trial Subpoenas
Plaintiff
Alexis Mitchell moves to quash trial subpoenas served by defendant Quantum
Environmental Testing, Inc. (Quantum) to six deponents: (1) Grand Canyon
University, (2) Tecolote Research Inc., (3) FedEx Office Print & Ship
Center, (4) Patriot Environmental, (5) Fiasco Enterprises Inc., and (6) State
Compensation Insurance Fund (SCIF).
Plaintiff
shows good cause to quash the subpoenas to protect her privacy rights.  “The
party asserting a privacy right must establish a legally protected privacy
interest, an objectively reasonable expectation of privacy in the given
circumstances, and a threatened intrusion that is serious.”  (Williams v. Superior Court (2017)
3 Cal.5th 531, 552.)  If the objecting party shows all three
elements, then the court must balance the need for disclosure against the right
to privacy.  (Ibid.)  Plaintiff shows each element.  
First, individuals have rights to privacy in their
medical records (John B. v. Superior Court (2006) 38 Cal.4th 1177,
1198), their personnel files or other employment records (Board of Trustees v. Superior
Court (1981) 119 Cal.App.3d 516, 528-530), and their educational
records (BRV, Inc. v. Superior Court (2006) 143 Cal.App.4th 742, 751-752).  
Second,
plaintiff shows an objectively reasonable expectation of privacy in the
circumstances.  “[P]laintiffs are ‘not obligated
to sacrifice all privacy to seek redress for a specific physical, mental or
emotional injury’; while they may not withhold information which relates to any
physical or mental condition which they have put in issue by bringing this
lawsuit, they are entitled to retain the confidentiality of all unrelated
medical or psychotherapeutic treatment they may have undergone in the
past.”  (Britt v. Superior Court (1978)
20 Cal.3d 844, 864, alterations and footnote omitted.)  Plaintiff brings this action against
defendants for, among other things, racial discrimination and harassment,
sexual harassment, retaliation, and various Labor Code violations.  This action did not put her medical
condition, her education, or her employment with other businesses at
issue.  
Third,
plaintiff shows a serious threatened intrusion. 
These subpoenas are broad.  Quantum did not limit them to reduce the
intrusion.  The subpoena to Grand Canyon University seeks “all
school records” including “transcripts, report cards, medical accommodation, …
discipline, etc.”  The subpoenas to other
employers seek pay records, “medical records”, “employment
performance/reviews/discipline, insurance records, time sheets, [and] workers
compensation.”  The subpoena to SCIF seeks
all records “pertaining to ADJ13I45642,” a workers’ compensation case, which
would likely include medical records.  
Plaintiff’s privacy rights outweigh Quantum’s need
for disclosure.  Quantum has shown no
reason it needs copies of, for example, plaintiff’s college transcripts, her performance
evaluations or time sheets at other jobs, or records from her workers’ compensation
case.
Disposition
Plaintiff
Alexis Mitchell’s motion to quash trial subpoenas is granted.  The court hereby quashes defendant
Quantum Environmental Testing, Inc.’s trial subpoenas to (1) Grand Canyon
University, (2) Tecolote Research Inc., (3) FedEx Office Print & Ship
Center, (4) Patriot Environmental, (5) Fiasco Enterprises Inc., and (6) State
Compensation Insurance Fund.