 Case Number:  22STCV13106    Hearing Date:   September 13, 2024    Dept:  52 Defendants Farmers Group, Inc. and Farmers
Insurance Exchange’s Motion for Summary Adjudication of Issues
            Defendants Farmers
Group, Inc. (FGI) and Farmers Insurance Exchange (FIE) move for summary
adjudication of 10 issues: that each of plaintiff Maureen Martinez’s 10 causes
of action “is without merit as to Defendants FGI and FIE … to the extent their
alleged liability is based upon the equitable remedy of ‘alter ego/single
enterprise.’ ”  (Notice of Motion, pp.
2-4.)  
            These 10 issues
are not subject to summary adjudication without obtaining leave of court under
Code of Civil Procedure 437c, subdivision (t). 
“A motion for summary
adjudication shall be granted only if it completely disposes of a cause of
action, an affirmative defense, a claim for damages, or an issue of duty.”  (CCP § 437c(f)(1).)  A defendant who moves for summary
adjudication without addressing each “theory of liability” for a cause of
action does not meet its “ ‘initial burden of production to make a prima facie
showing of the nonexistence of any triable issue of material fact.’ ”  (Jameson v. Desta (2013) 215
Cal.App.4th 1144, 1165.)   
            This motion
for summary adjudication of issues “to the extent [defendants’] alleged
liability is based upon the equitable remedy of ‘alter ego/single enterprise’ ”
would not dispose of any entire cause of action.  Plaintiff’s third amended complaint alleges
all six entity defendants are alter egos and operate as a single enterprise
(3AC, ¶ 20), but also that they each “directly and indirectly employed
plaintiff” (¶ 25) and each “compelled, coerced, aided, and abetted the
discrimination” against plaintiff (¶ 26), among other theories of liability
separate from the alter ego or single enterprise doctrine.  
FGI and FIE’s papers acknowledge that
granting this motion would not dispose of any entire cause of action.  The memorandum in support of the motion
states, “None of [plaintiff’s] claims have merit, as there was no contractual
agreement or employment relationship between Plaintiff and any Defendant.  But those issues will be addressed in
Defendants’ separate dispositive motion.  This motion addresses Plaintiff’s ‘alter
ego/single enterprise’ theory of liability that she is pursuing against FGI and
FIE.  The motion will show this theory of
liability is without merit, as there is no evidence to support any element of
this theory and no inequitable result will occur if the corporate separateness
of FGI, FIE, and the other Signatory Defendants is recognized.”  (Memo, p. 1.) 

Similarly, the reply brief asserts as
to FGI, “Plaintiff’s argument that FGI would be dismissed or otherwise escape
liability [if] Defendants’ Motion is granted is simply inaccurate.  The granting of Defendants’ Motion disposes
only of FGI’s liability under the alter ego/single enterprise theory of
liability.”  (Reply, p. 9.)  That means FGI could still be liable under
other theories, and thus granting this motion would not dispose of any entire
cause of action against it.
FGI and FIE’s memorandum in support
of this motion argues, “Alter ego allegations are appropriate for disposition
by summary adjudication.”  (Memo, p.
13.)  The memorandum cites four cases as
authority.  None of those cases supports
the proposition that alter ego liability is an issue subject to summary
adjudication when it would not dispose of an entire cause of action.
            In Tucker
Land Co. v. State of California (2001) 94 Cal.App.4th 1191, the Court of
Appeal reviewed an order granting summary judgment of an entire action for
declaratory relief.  Similarly, in Aguirre
v. Southern Pac. Co. (1965) 232 Cal.App.2d 636, the court affirmed a
judgment of dismissal after the trial court granted summary judgment of the
entire action.  Roman Catholic
Archbishop v. Superior Court (1971) 15 Cal.App.3d 405 held the trial court
abused its discretion in denying one defendant’s motion for summary judgment of
the entire case.  The plaintiff relied solely
on the alter ego doctrine as a basis for holding that defendant liable.  (Id. at pp. 408-409, 411.)  Finally, defendants’ memorandum cites Tomaselli v. Transamerica Ins. Co.
(1994) 25 Cal.App.4th 1269, 1284, where the Court of Appeal reviewed a judgment
after jury trial.  That case did not
discuss summary judgment or adjudication. 
Disposition    
Defendants Farmers Group, Inc. and Farmers
Insurance Exchange’s motion for summary adjudication of issues is denied.