 Case Number:  23STCV24193    Hearing Date:   September 13, 2024    Dept:  52 Plaintiff Gayane Mkrtchyan’s Motion to Compel Further Responses
to Form Interrogatories
            Plaintiff
Gayane Mkrtchyan moves to compel defendants QTC Management Inc., Leidos, Inc.,
and Leidos Holdings, Inc. to provide further responses to form interrogatory –
employment No. 216.1.  On May 14, 2024,
the court ordered these defendants to provide further responses to several
discovery requests, including that interrogatory, within 30 days.  Defendants ultimately served supplemental
responses to the interrogatory.  The
motion is therefore moot as to defendants’ responses.  
The court
may, however, impose sanctions.  If the
court grants a motion to compel further responses and the responding party “then
fails to obey … , the court may make those orders that are just, including the
imposition of an issue sanction, an evidence sanction, or a terminating
sanction … .  In lieu of, or in addition
to, that sanction, the court may impose a monetary sanction.”  (CCP § 2030.300(e).)  Plaintiff moves for $4,000 in sanctions
against defendants and their counsel. 
Defendants contend this motion was unnecessary and seek $1,872.50 in
sanctions against plaintiff and her counsel. 

The court
finds no sanctions are warranted.  Plaintiff
agreed to extend defendants’ time to respond by July 31, 2024.  (Zilifyan Decl., Ex. 2.)  On that day, defendants’ counsel wrote that
they “are just waiting on the verifications.” 
(Id., p. 3.)  The next day,
defendants’ counsel wrote, “We are a little delayed on getting these
verifications wrapped up as Kristin was handling and she is out with COVID.  We are just waiting on the verifications.”  (Ibid.)  Plaintiff’s counsel replied, “Can you send
the responses and have the verifications follow so that I have some assurance?”  (Id., p. 2.)  Defendants’ counsel replied, asserting “there
is no trial date” and arguing “[t]here should not be any exigency at all.”  (Id., p. 1.)  The trial date had already been set, but, as
defendants’ counsel later wrote, it was over a year away.
Both
parties acted with substantial justification. 
Plaintiff was not required to wait indefinitely.  She already agreed to extend the deadline
significantly.  Defendants, on the other
hand, were right that there was no exigency. 
An attorney’s illness was a reasonable excuse for the delay.  The court will exercise its discretion not to
impose sanctions on any party.
Plaintiff
Gayane Mkrtchyan’s motion to compel further responses to form interrogatories
is denied as moot.  