 Case Number:  24CHCV00075    Hearing Date:   November 22, 2024    Dept:  F43 Dept.
F43
Date:
11-22-24
Case
# 24CHCV00075, Alliant Credit Union v. Salazar
Trial
Date: None set.
 
WRIT OF POSSESSION
 
MOVING
PARTY: Plaintiff Alliant Credit Union
RESPONDING
PARTY: N/A
 
RELIEF
REQUESTED
Writ
of Possession.
 
RULING: Motion is granted.
 
SUMMARY
OF ACTION
In
May 2019, Edgar Magos Salazar bought a Keystone Avalanche recreational vehicle
which was purchased from a RV dealer and financed the purchase through a retail
sales installment contract that required him to make monthly payments of $738.80.
 He stopped making payments in April
2023, leaving an unpaid balance of $65,793.84 and has refused a request to
return the vehicle.  Alliant Credit Union
is the assignee of that contract and sued Salazar for claim and delivery of
personal property and a common count of money owed on a contract.  Alliant also filed an application for writ of
possession of the vehicle, alleging Salazar still has the vehicle. 
 
The
application is supported by the declaration of Stanley Chism, Alliant’s authorized
representative.  Alliant is asking to
recover either the vehicle or its current value, a writ ordering Salazar to
turn the vehicle over to the bank, and an order barring Salazar from
transferring the vehicle to anyone else or concealing its location.  (Chism Dec., ¶¶ 5-7.)
 
According
to Chism the vehicle has a wholesale value of $41,650.00 and a retail value of
$53,400.00.  (Chism Dec., ¶ 6.)  According to Chism, the vehicle is at Salazar’s
home at 2109 Zachary GLN, Escondido, CA 92027. 
(Chism Dec., ¶ 10.)
 
Salazar
has not filed an opposition.
 
ANALYSIS
Upon,
or after, filing a complaint, the plaintiff may apply for a writ of possession
by filing a written application for the writ with the court in which the action
is brought. (Code Civ. Proc., § 512.010, subd. (a).)
 
The
application must be executed under oath and include: 
 
(1) A showing of
the basis of the plaintiff’s claim and that the plaintiff is entitled to
possession of the property claimed. If the basis of the plaintiff’s claim is a
written instrument, a copy of the instrument shall be attached.
(2) A showing
that the property is wrongfully detained by the defendant, of the manner in
which the defendant came into possession of the property, and, according to the
best knowledge, information, and belief of the plaintiff, of the reason for the
detention.
(3) A
particular description of the property and a statement of its value.
(4) A
statement, according to the best knowledge, information, and belief of the
plaintiff, of the location of the property and, if the property, or some part
of it, is within a private place which may have to be entered to take
possession, a showing that there is probable cause to believe that such
property is located there.
(5) A
statement that the property has not been taken for a tax, assessment, or fine,
pursuant to a statute; or seized under an execution against the property of the
plaintiff; or, if so seized, that it is by statute exempt from such seizure.
 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 512.010, subd. (b).)
 
Attached
to Chism’s declaration are the following exhibits: (1) a copy of the
installment contract at issue; (2) a California title certificate for the vehicle;
and (3) a Black Book Auto Market Report showing the vehicle’s value as of December
1, 2023.
 
The
sales contract states that the vehicle may be repossessed if Salazar
defaults.  Alliant has established that
Salazar has been in default since April 2023. 
(Chism Dec., Exh. A, at p. 4.)  Alliant
currently holds a first priority security interest in the vehicle according to
the title certificate dated December 4, 2023. 
(Chism Dec., Exh. B.)  Alliant
also states that the vehicle has not been taken for tax, assessment or fine,
under any statute, or seized under an execution or attachment against the property
of Alliant.  (Chism Dec., ¶ 8.)  
 
Alliant
declares that Salazar wrongfully possesses the vehicle after Alliant demanded
Salazar surrender possession of the vehicle. Based upon Salazar’s file, Salazar
resides at 2109 Zachary GLN, Escondido, CA 92027.  (Chism Dec., ¶ 10.)  Alliant believes the vehicle is located at
this address. 
 
The
Court finds that plaintiff Alliant Credit Union has met its burden and is
entitled to a writ of possession of the 2019 Keystone Avalanche 375RD recreational
vehicle, Vehicle Identification No. 4YDF37520KE760887, along with orders
prohibiting defendant Salazar from transferring possession or otherwise
concealing that truck. 
 
Moving
party to give notice.