  Case Number:  18SMCV00349    Hearing Date:   September 26, 2023    Dept:  I The matter is here for a final status conference.  The FSC order was given on December 6,
2022.  On September 21, 2023, plaintiff
filed a witness list and an exhibit list. 
Neither was a joint filing.  The
court does not know what, if any, efforts were made to work with plaintiff to
submit joint exhibits.
On September 25, 2023, plaintiff submitted a request to
continue the case.  Plaintiff states that
defendant has new counsel of record but that plaintiff’s counsel has received
no communications from defense counsel. 
Plaintiff was in contact with defense counsel (plaintiff states)
regarding discovery and various documents exchanged including some potential
settlement materials.  Plaintiff notes
that the court stayed the case earlier because defendant had no official
counsel but had been working with Mr. Millman unofficially.  Plaintiff states that its owner, Cruz, was
recently hospitalized.  Accordingly,
plaintiff states that Cruz cannot fully appear at the trial and requests a
continuance.
Plaintiff notes that the court had strongly urged the
parties to settle and ordered the parties to meet and confer to that end.  The parties did so leading plaintiff to
submit a settlement memo to attempt to bring the parties to agreement.  Although no agreement was reached, plaintiff
states that both parties acted appropriately and agreed to explore further
settlement discussions.
Plaintiff also states that discovery is not yet complete
because defendant has not fully responded. 
Plaintiff was unable to have the motion to compel heard in 2022 because
defendant lacked counsel, but the court stated that the matter would be
reserved, thereby allowing the motion to be brought later.  Plaintiff has tried to get this information,
but has not yet been successful.
The court will ask defendants what efforts, if any, were
made to work with plaintiff regarding the final status conference.  But whatever the reasons, the case is plainly
NOT READY FOR TRIAL and will need to be VACATED.  However, it does not appear that anyone took
the court’s final status conference order seriously.  That is troubling.