 Case Number:  24NNCV03841    Hearing Date:   December 13, 2024    Dept:  A MOTION TO
DECLARE VEXATIOUS LITIGANT

Los Angeles Superior Court
Case # 24NNCV03841

 



MP:  


State Farm Mutual Automobile
  Insurance Company (Defendant)




RP:  


Frederick Pina (Plaintiff) 



 
NOTICE:
 

The Court is not
requesting oral argument on this matter.  The Court is guided by
California Rules of Court, Rule 3.1308(a)(1) whereby notice of intent to appear
is requested.  Unless the Court directs argument in the Tentative Ruling,
no argument is requested and any party seeking argument should notify all other
parties and the court by 4:00 p.m. on the court day before the hearing of the
party’s intention to appear and argue.  The tentative ruling will become
the ruling of the court if no argument is received.   
 
Notice may be given
either by email at BurDeptA@LACourt.org or by telephone at (818) 260-8412.
 
ALLEGATIONS: 
 
This action originates from litigation designated LASC Case
No:  BC546729. On May 23, 2014, Frederick
Pina (Plaintiff) filed a Complaint against various parties in connection with a
motor vehicle incident. State Farm Mutual Automobile Insurance Company (State
Farm) represented one of the insured defendants in this matter. 
 
On January 15, 2017, State Farm’s Motion for Evidence
Sanctions was granted in this matter. Plaintiff alleges this motion was “fraudulently
designed to unlawfully strip Plaintiff of his legal right to present critical
evidence to a jury” (Compl. ¶ 2.) Plaintiff alleges this motion was the
result of a conspiracy by State Farm’s counsel to induce Plaintiff to settle
the case. (Compl. p. 26.) Plaintiff alleges he was informed by State Farm’s
counsel that all discovery was complete, and that State Farm’s counsel made
this representation to prevent Plaintiff from opposing the Motion for Evidence
Sanctions. (Id.) Plaintiff thereafter settled this action.
 
Before the Court is State Farm’s Motion to Declare
Plaintiff a Vexatious Litigant. This motion does not directly concern LASC Case
No:  BC546729, rather it is based on a
variety of lawsuits Plaintiff filed after settlement was reached in the initial
case. In those cases, Plaintiff brought claims against State Farm for its
alleged fraudulent conduct in moving for evidence sanctions. State Farm states
that each of these litigations, and their subsequent appeals, were adversely
determined against Defendant. State Farm thus argues that this litigation is an
attempt to impermissibly relitigate the judgments in those actions and the legal
issues underlying them. 
  
ANALYSIS: 
 
I.                   
LEGAL
STANDARD 
 
C.C.P. § 391 defines a vexations litigant as a person who:
 
(1) In the immediately
preceding seven-year period has commenced, prosecuted, or maintained in propria
persona at least five litigations other than in a small claims court that have
been (i) finally determined adversely to the person or (ii) unjustifiably
permitted to remain pending at least two years without having been brought to
trial or hearing.
 
(2) After a litigation
has been finally determined against the person, repeatedly relitigates or
attempts to relitigate, in propria persona, either (i) the validity of the
determination against the same defendant or defendants as to whom the
litigation was finally determined or (ii) the cause of action, claim,
controversy, or any of the issues of fact or law, determined or concluded by
the final determination against the same defendant or defendants as to whom the
litigation was finally determined.
 
(3) In any litigation
while acting in propria persona, repeatedly files unmeritorious motions,
pleadings, or other papers, conducts unnecessary discovery, or engages in other
tactics that are frivolous or solely intended to cause unnecessary delay.
 
(4) Has previously
been declared to be a vexatious litigant by any state or federal court of
record in any action or proceeding based upon the same or substantially similar
facts, transaction, or occurrence.
 
Litigation means any civil action or proceeding, commenced,
maintained or pending in any state or federal court. (C.C.P. § 391(a).) “A
litigation is finally determined adversely to a plaintiff if he does not win
the action or proceeding he began, including cases that are voluntarily
dismissed by a plaintiff.” (Garcia v. Lacey (2014) 231 Cal.App.4th 402,
406-407.) The phrase “final determination against the same defendant” as used
in determining whether plaintiff is vexatious litigant by continuing to
relitigate such determination, refers to judgment in favor of defendant with
respect to which all avenues for direct review have been exhausted. (Childs
v. PaineWebber Incorporated (1994) 29 Cal.App.4th 982, 993.)
 
“In any litigation pending in any court of this state, at
any time until final judgment is entered, a defendant may move the court, upon
notice and hearing, for an order requiring the plaintiff to furnish security or
for an order dismissing the litigation pursuant to subdivision (b) of Section
391.3.” (C.C.P. § 391.1.) “The motion for an order requiring the plaintiff to
furnish security shall be based upon the ground, and supported by a showing,
that the plaintiff is a vexatious litigant and that there is not a reasonable
probability that he or she will prevail in the litigation against the moving
defendant.” (Id.)
 
“At the hearing upon the motion the court shall consider
any evidence, written or oral, by witnesses or affidavit, as may be material to
the ground of the motion.” (C.C.P. § 391.2.) “Except for an order dismissing
the litigation pursuant to subdivision (b) of Section 391.3, no determination
made by the court in determining or ruling upon the motion shall be or be
deemed to be a determination of any issue in the litigation or of the merits
thereof.” (Id.)
 
II.                
MERITS 
 
Judicial Notice 
 
State Farm requests judicial notice be taken of various
filings and orders issued in the previous litigations brought by Plaintiff before
the California Superior Court, California Court of Appeal, California Supreme
Court, United States District Court for the Central District of California,
Ninth Circuit Court of Appeal, and United States Supreme Court. (See RJN Exhs.
A-W.) 
 
The Court may take judicial notice of “[r]ecords of (1) any
court of this state or (2) any court of record of the United States or of any
state of the United States.” (Evid. Code § 452(d).) This includes any orders,
findings of facts and conclusions of law, and judgments within court records. (Lockley
v. Law Office of Cantrell, Green, Pekich, Cruz & McCort (2001) 91
Cal.App.4th 875, 882.)
 
Pursuant to Evidence Code § 452, State Farm’s requests are
GRANTED. 
 
Prior Lawsuits 
 
California Superior Court Case No: 21STCV13962 
 
On April 13, 2021, Plaintiff filed the Complaint in the
above case, alleging causes of action for (1) Intentional Interference with
Prospective Economic Advantage, (2) Violation of Business and Professions Code
§ 17200 et. Seq, (3) Fraud, (4) Breach of Fiduciary Duty, (5)
Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress, and (6) Violation of Civil
Rights. (See Mot. Exh. A, RJN Exh. A.) 
 
On November 4, 2021, the trial court conducted a hearing
for State Farm’s demurrer to each cause of action. (Mot. Exh. B, RJN Exh. B.)
Both parties were in attendance and submitted to the Court’s tentative ruling.
(Id.) The trial court sustained the demurrer to each cause of action without
leave to amend, with the exception of the cause of action for Breach of
Fiduciary Duty. (Id.) Plaintiff was granted leave to amend this cause of
action. (Id.) 
 
On December 1, 2021, Plaintiff filed his First Amended
Complaint containing causes of action for (1) Fraud, (2) Breach of Fiduciary
Duty, and (3) Negligent Infliction of Emotional Distress (NIED). (Mot. Exh., C,
RJN Exh. C.) 
 
On August 12, 2022, the trial court sustained State Farm’s
demurrer to the Breach of Fiduciary Duty cause of action without leave to
amend. (Mot. Exh. D, RJN Exh. D.) Plaintiff did not oppose this demurrer. (Id.)
The trial court granted the motion to strike the causes of action for Fraud and
NIED on grounds that Plaintiff did not obtain leave of the Court to assert
those claims in light of the previous demurrer being sustained without leave to
amend. (Id.) A Non-Appearance Case Review re: Status of Submission of
Proposed Judgment of Dismissal was then scheduled for December 8, 2022. (Id.)

 
On September 13, 2024, this action was dismissed with
prejudice by entry of judgment from the trial court after demurrer was
sustained to Plaintiff’s First Amended Complaint without leave to amend. (Mot.
Exh. E, RJN Exh. E.) Notice of entry of judgment was thereafter provided to
Plaintiff by the Clerk of the Court. (Mot. Exh. F, RJN Exh. F.)  
 
On April 4, 2023, the trial court conducted a hearing on
Plaintiff’s motion to set aside the dismissal of his lawsuit and for leave to
file a Second Amended Complaint. (Mot. Exh. G.) Plaintiff’s motion was denied
for failure to show he was entitled to relief under C.C.P. § 473(b). (Id.)

 
Plaintiff then appealed the trial court order in the Second
Appellate District Court of Appeal. (Mot. Exh. G, RJN Exh. G.) On May 8, 2024,
the Second District granted State Farm’s unopposed Motion to Dismiss Appeal. (Id.)
The court found that Plaintiff’s July 10, 2023 notice of appeal was filed more
than 300 days after the September 12, 2022 entry of judgment and thus
Plaintiff’s appeal was dismissed. (Id.) 
 
On Aug 14, 2024, the California Supreme Court denied
Plaintiff’s petition for review, requests for judicial notice, motion for leave
to file supplemental brief, and motion for leave to file attachment. (Mot. Exh.
L, RJN Exh. H.) 
 
United States District Court for the Central District of
California, Case No: 2:23-cv-02672-MKS-SK 

 
On April 9, 2023, Plaintiff filed his Complaint in the
above referenced case. (Mot. Exh. M, RJN Exh. I.) Plaintiff asserted claims for
(1) Fraud, (2) Conspiracy to Commit Fraud, (3) violations of the Securities Act
of 1933, (4) Violation of Civil Rights, (5) Intentional Infliction of Emotional
Distress (IIED), and (6) Federal Perjury. (Id.) Plaintiff’s claims
reiterated those made in his pleadings in LASC Case No: 21STCV13962, namely
that Plaintiff was improperly precluded from proceeding with his claims because
of State Farm’s Motion for Evidentiary Sanctions. (Id.) 
 
On May 2, 2023, Plaintiff filed an FAC in the Central
District Matter. The FAC contained causes of action for (1) Fraud, (2)
Conspiracy to Commit Fraud, and (3) Violation of Civil Rights. (Mot. Exh. N,
RJN Exh. J.) 
 
On June 12, 2023, the Central District Court dismissed this
action with prejudice. (Mot. Exh. O, RJN Exh. K.) The District Court found that
Plaintiff’s initial application to proceed in forma pauperis was denied because
his Complaint “…failed to state a claim on which relief may be granted in
federal court.” (RJN Exh. L at p. 151.) The District Court granted leave to
amend based on Plaintiff’s status as a self-represented litigant. (Id.)
The District Court next found that Plaintiff’s FAC also failed to state a claim
because it was barred by res judicata. (Id.)  Further, the District Court observed that Plaintiff
never paid the filing fees for the FAC nor reapplied to proceed in forma
pauperis. (Id.) 
 
On July 6, 2023, Plaintiff filed a notice of appeal seeking
review of the order dismissing his action with prejudice in the Ninth Circuit
Court of Appeals. (RJN Exh. L.) 
 
On April 2, 2024, the Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals
affirmed the Central District decision. (Mot. Exh. P.)  The Ninth Circuit held, “The district court
properly dismissed Pina' s action on the basis of claim preclusion because
Pina's claims alleging improper conduct by State Farm's counsel during Pina's
personal injury litigation involved the same parties and primary right raised
in a prior state court action that resulted in a final judgment on the merits.”
(Id. at p. 193.) The court further held, “We reject as meritless Pina's
contentions that the district court acted without authority in issuing its
decisions, violated federal law, or was biased against Pina.” (Id.)
 
Also on April 2, 2024, Plaintiff filed a petition for
rehearing en banc of the Ninth Circuit ruling, asserting the decision was in
conflict with precedent on claim preclusion. (Mot. Exh. O, RJN Exh. N.) On July
11, 2024, this petition was denied. (Mot. Exh. R., RJN Exh. M.) 
 
On October 7, 2024, Plaintiff’s writ of certiorari to the
United States Supreme Court was denied. (Mot. Exh. S, RJN Exh. P.) 
 
United States District Court for the Central District of
California. Case Number 2:23-cv-10245-MCS-SK
 
On December 3, 2023, Plaintiff filed his Complaint in the
above referenced case stating claims for (1) Violations of the Clayton
Anti-Trust Act, (2) Obstruction of Justice, and (3) Receiving the Proceeds of
Extortion. (RJN Exh. Q.) This Complaint explicitly concerned Plaintiff’s
allegation that he was improperly precluded from proceeding with his claims
because of State Farm’s Motion for Evidentiary Sanctions in LASC Case No:
21STCV13962. (Id. at p. 194.) 
 
On December 22, 2023, the Central District dismissed this
action with prejudice on grounds that it was barred by the judgment in the
prior Central District action. (Mot. Exh. T, RJN Exh. R.) The Central District
found this case pertained “…to the same transaction and occurrence as a prior
case Plaintiff brought in this court against Defendant.” (Id. at p.
360.) The court also denied Plaintiff’s ex parte application to disqualify one
of the Magistrate Judge’s from the case. (Id. at 362.) 
 
On January 18, 2024, the Ninth Circuit Court of Appeal
denied Plaintiff’s petition for a writ of mandamus in this case. (RJN Exh. S.)
Plaintiff’s motion to consolidate this appeal with the appeal in the prior case
was also denied. (Id.) 
 
Discussion 
 
In making this motion, State Farm alleges Plaintiff is
attempting to relitigate matters which have already been conclusively
determined in LASC Case No: 21STCV13962, District Court Case No:
2:23-cv-02672-MKS-SK, and District Court Case Number 2:23-cv-10245-MCS-SK.
State Farm asks the Court to consider Plaintiff a vexatious litigant because
the claims in these lawsuits, all of which stem from the Motion for Evidence
Sanctions in LASC Case No: BC546729, have already been adversely determined
against Plaintiff at both the trial and appellate levels. 
 
The Court finds the claims in Plaintiff’s Complaint are an
attempt to relitigate issued which have already been adversely determined
against him. LASC Case No: 21STCV13962 contained factual allegations which are
virtually identical to those asserted in the Complaint in this action. The fact
that Plaintiff has now couched these allegations in the form of different
causes of action does not permit him to avoid the judgment. State Farm has
sufficiently demonstrated this to be the case by virtue of judicially noticing
the several judgments obtained against Plaintiff. 
 
Plaintiff argues that this lawsuit is not an attempt to
relitigate issues presented in his previous litigations because it is based on “new
facts and procedural defects” which are distinct from the prior actions. This
argument in unpersuasive. 
 
C.C.P. § 391(2) does not require that the claims in the
current litigation be a mirror image of those presented in the previous
litigation. Instead, C.C.P. § 391(2) allows for a determination of vexatious
litigant where the current claim attempts to relitigate either (1) the validity
of a previous adverse determination or (2) the issues which served as the basis
for that previous adverse determination. Plaintiff’s Complaint in this case
does both. 
 
Plaintiff’s Complaint alleges that the determination in
LASC Case No: 21STCV13962 was the result of the judge in that case engaging “…in
a willful dereliction of her judicial duties by refusing to sign an Order from
the July 7, 2023.” (Compl. p. 5.) This allegation, and the many that flow from
it, all constitute a challenge to the validity of the judgment against
Plaintiff in LASC Case No: 21STCV13962. Further, the validity of the judgment
was put before the California Court of Appeal and the California Supreme Court.
Plaintiff’s appeal was denied by the Court of Appeal and his petition for
review was denied by the California Supreme Court. 
 
Plaintiff does not identify what new facts or allegations which
differentiate this action. Presumably Plaintiff refers to his allegation that
the Court of Appeal dismissed his appeal because they were unaware of the
deception by the trial judge.  (See
Compl. p. 5.) Plaintiff further alleges that this deception was the basis for
the Supreme Court’s denial of his petition. (Id.) The Court does not see
any way in which these allegations could be construed as anything other than a
challenge to the validity of an adverse determination against him in LASC Case
No: 21STCV13962. Plaintiff’s allegations of judicial misconduct were presented
to the Court of Appeal and the California Supreme Court and determined to be
without merit. Plaintiff’s opposition also completely omits any discussion of
his two actions in the Central District Court. From the Court’s review of the
pleadings in those cases, they too mirror the allegations of this case. 
 
Plaintiff’s argument that he cannot be declared a vexatious
litigant because he has alleged extrinsic fraud is similarly unpersuasive.
Extrinsic fraud usually arises when a party is denied a fair adversary hearing
because he has been “deliberately kept in ignorance of the action or
proceeding, or in some other way fraudulently prevented from presenting his
claim or defense.” (Kulchar v. Kulchar (1969) 1 Cal.3d 467, 471.) Here,
each of the previous actions filed by Plaintiff included allegations of fraud
which were subsequently determined to be without merit by the relevant trial
courts and appellate bodies. The fact that Plaintiff now frames these
allegations as extrinsic fraud, rather than ordinary fraud, does not change the
fact that his underlying allegations remain the same. 
 
In addition to attempted relitigating under C.C.P. §
391(2), the Court also finds Plaintiff has repeatedly filed “unmeritorious
motions, pleadings, or other papers” as described in C.C.P. § 391(3). In the
roughly four months this litigation has been pending, Plaintiff has requested
the Clerk enter default against State Farm no less than 14 times. These
attempts have continued despite the fact that Plaintiff has been repeatedly
informed that State Farm’s filing of this motion automatically stayed proceedings
in this action. (See C.C.P. § 391.3) Since being informed of the mandatory
stay, Plaintiff has also filed 19 “declarations” repeatedly alleging that this
Court is unlawfully refusing to enter default and is engaged in a conspiracy to
deny Plaintiff his Constitutional rights. These declarations were filed unconnected
with any motion and appear to have been filed for no purpose other than to
forestall adjudication of this motion. 
 
In short, the Court finds State Farm has adequately
demonstrated Plaintiff to be a vexatious litigant. Plaintiff’s litigation seeks
to improperly challenge the judgments rendered against him in both state and
federal court, as well as to impermissibly relitigate his claims of fraud by State
Farm. It is apparent from the numerous filings juridically noticed by State
Farm that Plaintiff has no reasonable probability of prevailing, as his claims
are barred by the doctrine of res judicata. The claims Plaintiff presents in
this case have all been litigated and determined adversely against him. Further,
Plaintiff has presented no facts which distinguish the claims made in this case
from those previously determined. 
 
Accordingly, the only issue remaining is that of security. “Security”
is defined as “an undertaking to assure payment, to the party for whose benefit
the undertaking is required to be furnished, of the party's reasonable
expenses, including attorney's fees and not limited to taxable costs, incurred
in or in connection with a litigation instituted, caused to be instituted, or
maintained or caused to be maintained by a vexatious litigant.” (C.C.P. §
391(c).) The Court is ultimately responsible for fixing an appropriate amount
of security to cover the moving party's reasonable expenses. (C.C.P. § 391.3 [“the
court shall order the plaintiff to furnish, for the benefit of the moving
defendant, security in such amount and within such time as the court shall
fix.]”.)
 
The Court grants State Farm’s request that Plaintiff be
required to post security in the amount of $17,875.00. This amount reflects the
costs estimated by State Farm’s counsel in defending this action, totaling 55
hours at a rate of $325 per hour. (Bhatia Decl. ¶ 50.) This estimate is
reasonable, as, in the Court’ experience, it is far below the average time
cases such as this usually require, and the attorney’s rate is below average.
Plaintiff is required to post security no later than January 15, 2025.  
--- 
 
RULING:
 
In the
event the parties submit on this tentative ruling, or a party requests a signed
order or the court in its discretion elects to sign a formal order, the
following form will be either electronically signed or signed in hard copy and
entered into the court’s records. 
 
ORDER 
 
State Farm Mutual
Automobile Insurance Company’s Motion to Declare Vexatious Litigant came on regularly for hearing on December 13, 2024, with
appearances/submissions as noted in the minute order for said hearing, and the
court, being fully advised in the premises, did then and there rule as
follows: 
 
STATE
FARM’S MOTION TO DECLARE PLAINTIFF A VEXATIOUS LITIGANT IS GRANTED. 
 
TO
PROCEED IN THIS ACTION, PLAINTIFF IS REQUIRED TO POST SECURITY IN THE AMOUNT OF
$17, 875.00 NO LATER THAN JANUARY 15, 2025. 
 
THE COURT
SETS A CASE MANAGEMENT CONFERENCE AND A OSC RE: POSTING OF SECURITY FOR JANUARY
16, 2025 AT 9:00 AM. 
 
DEFENDANT
STATE FARM TO GIVE NOTICE. 
 
IT IS SO
ORDERED. 
 
DATE: 
December 13, 2024                           _______________________________ 
                                                                   
    F.M.
TAVELMAN, Judge 
Superior Court of California 
County of
Los Angeles 
 
 