 Case Number:  23BBCV02662    Hearing Date:   December 13, 2024    Dept:  A MOTION TO
DEEM REQUEST FOR ADMISSIONS MATTERS ADMITTED

Los Angeles Superior Court
Case # 23BBCV02662

 



MP: 


American Tilemakers, a California
  Corporation (Plaintiff)




RP:  


Industrial Furnace & Insulation
  Solutions, LLC and Keyur Amin (Defendants) [No Response Rendered]



NOTICE:
 

The Court is not
requesting oral argument on this matter.  The Court is guided by
California Rules of Court, Rule 3.1308(a)(1) whereby notice of intent to appear
is requested.  Unless the Court directs argument in the Tentative Ruling,
no argument is requested and any party seeking argument should notify all other
parties and the court by 4:00 p.m. on the court day before the hearing of the
party’s intention to appear and argue.  The tentative ruling will become
the ruling of the court if no argument is received.   
 
Notice may be given
either by email at BurDeptA@LACourt.org or by telephone at (818) 260-8412.
 
ALLEGATIONS: 
 
American Tilemakers,
a California Corporation (Plaintiff) brings this action against Industrial
Furnace & Insulation Solutions, a California Corporation and Industrial
Furnace & Insulation Solutions, LLC (Defendants). Plaintiffs allege
Defendants are in breach of a contract for the purchase and installation of
three gas fired ceramic kilns to be used in Plaintiff’s tile production. Plaintiff
alleges that despite their timely payment of the purchase price ($123,165.94) Defendants failed to deliver the kilns in
working condition. 
 
Before the Court is
Plaintiff’s Motion to Deem Matters in their Request for Admissions (RFA) as admitted.
Plaintiff states this motion has resulted from Defendants’ failure to respond
to their RFA demands. Defendants have not opposed this motion. The Court notes
that, pursuant to C.R.C. Rule 8.54(c), a failure to
oppose a motion may be deemed consent to its being granted.  
  
ANALYSIS: 
 
I.                   
LEGAL
STANDARD 
 
If a party fails to respond
to requests for admission in a timely manner, the requesting party may move for
an order that the matters be deemed admitted. (C.C.P. § 2033.280(b).) The requesting party’s motion must be
granted by the court unless the party to whom the requests for admission have
been directed has served a proposed response to the requests for admission that
is in substantial compliance with C.C.P. § 2033.220 prior to the hearing. 
(C.C.P. § 2033.280(c).)  By failing
to timely respond, the party to whom the requests are directed waives any
objection to the requests, including one based on privilege or work
product.  (C.C.P. §
2033.280(a).) 
 
II.                
MERITS 
 
Request to Deem RFA Matters
Admitted  
 
On May 8,
2024, Plaintiff served their RFA on Defendants’ counsel via email. (Segal Decl.
¶ 2, Exh. 1.) On September 24, 2024, Defendants’ counsel emailed to
request an extension to October 4, 2024. (Segal Decl. Exh. 2.) Plaintiff’s
counsel denied the extension but stated that they would not move to deem the
RFA matters admitted provided they received responses by October 4, 2024.
(Segal Decl. Exh. 2.) Plaintiff’s counsel further stated that this was the
first contact from Defendants’ counsel on the discovery matters, despite the
multiple attempts of Plaintiff’s counsel to meet and confer. (Id.) As of
the filing of this motion, Plaintiff remains without responses. (Segal Decl.
¶ 4.) 
 
Given the
foregoing, Plaintiff’s unopposed Motion to Deem RFA Matters Admitted is
GRANTED. 
 
Sanctions

 
The Court shall impose
monetary sanctions for failure to timely respond to requests for admission
unless the party acted with substantial justification, or the circumstances
render imposition of sanctions unjust. (C.C.P. §
2033.280(c).) The Court must impose a monetary sanction on the party or
attorney whose failure to serve timely RFA responses necessitated the motion. (Id.)
 
The Court
awards sanctions in favor of Plaintiff as against Defendants’ counsel in the
amount of $800. This amount reflects two hours of attorney work at the stated
rate of $400 per hour. (Segal Decl. ¶ 5.) In the Court experience, this
amount is reasonable to compensate Plaintiff in bringing a motion of this
complexity.  
--- 
 
RULING:
 
In the
event the parties submit on this tentative ruling, or a party requests a signed
order or the court in its discretion elects to sign a formal order, the
following form will be either electronically signed or signed in hard copy and
entered into the court’s records. 
 
ORDER 
 
American Tilemakers,
a California Corporation’s Motion to Deem RFA Matters Admitted came on regularly for hearing on December 13, 2024, with
appearances/submissions as noted in the minute order for said hearing, and the
court, being fully advised in the premises, did then and there rule as
follows: 
 
THE MOTION TO DEEM RFA MATTERS ADMITTED IS GRANTED.
 
SANCTIONS ARE AWARDED IN PLAINTIFF’S FAVOR AS
AGAINST DEFENDANTS’ COUNSEL IN THE AMOUNT OF $800.
 
SANCTIONS TO BE PAID WITHIN 30 DAYS. 
 
PLAINTIFF TO PROVIDE NOTICE.  
 
IT IS SO
ORDERED. 
 
DATE: 
December 13, 2024                            _______________________________ 
                                                                   
    F.M.
TAVELMAN, Judge 
Superior Court of California 
County of
Los Angeles 
 
 