 Case Number:  BC718464    Hearing Date:   December 13, 2024    Dept:  A 
TENTATIVE
RULING
DECEMBER 13,
2024

MOTION FOR
STAY OF PROCEEDINGS/CONTINUANCE OF TRIAL

Los Angeles Superior Court
Case # BC718464

 



MP:  


Farshad Rabbani, Time Zone NT. Properties,
  LLC, Time Zone Properties, LLC, Tim Zone Ent. Properties, Inc., Time Zone
  Entertainment, LLC, Haig Bazoian, and the Bazoian Trust (Defendants)
 




RP:  


Pink Selkin,
  Lodie Pollard, Luna Skyy Pollard, Donna Hill, and Jayden Devaughn Carter
  (Plaintiffs)



 
NOTICE:
 

The Court is not
requesting oral argument on this matter.  The Court is guided by
California Rules of Court, Rule 3.1308(a)(1) whereby notice of intent to appear
is requested.  Unless the Court directs argument in the Tentative Ruling,
no argument is requested and any party seeking argument should notify all other
parties and the court by 4:00 p.m. on the court day before the hearing of the
party’s intention to appear and argue.  The tentative ruling will become
the ruling of the court if no argument is received.   
 
Notice may be given
either by email at BurDeptA@LACourt.org or by telephone at (818) 260-8412.
 
ALLEGATIONS: 
 
Pink Selkin (Selkin) and Lodie Pollard, Luna Skyy Pollard, Donna Hill,
and Jayden Devaughn Carter (Pollard Plaintiffs) (collectively Plaintiffs) bring
this action in connection with an April 14, 2018 fire at 3779 Cahuenga Blvd., Studio City, California. This fire claimed the lives of Michael
Pollard and Devaughn Carter, of whom Pollard Plaintiffs are the survivors. The
fire also caused severe injury to Plaintiff Selkin, who was trapped in the
building.
 
Defendants in this action are the City of Los Angeles (the City), Farshad
Rabbani, Time Zone NT. Properties, LLC, Time Zone Properties, LLC, Tim Zone
Ent. Properties, Inc., Time Zone Entertainment, LLC (Time Zone Defendants),
Haig Bazoian, and the Bazoian Trust (Bazoian Defendants) (collectively
Defendants). 
 
On November 20, 2024,
this Court enter an order granting summary judgment in favor of the City as to
the claims of all Plaintiffs. This order is now pending appeal. Trial is set
for February 2, 2025.
 
Before the Court is a
motion made by Time Zone Defendants to stay proceedings/continue trial while
Plaintiffs’ appeal of the Court’s order is decided. Bazoian Defendants join
this motion. Defendants reason that they would be presently unable to present
any argument/evidence of the City’s joint liability. Defendants argue that
allowing the trial to proceed runs the risk of invalidating the trial in the
instance the Court of Appeal reverses.
 
Selkin opposes the
motion and Pollard Plaintiffs join. Plaintiffs argue that further delay of
trial would result in severe prejudice to them, as the passage of more time
only serves to further reduce the likelihood that crucial witnesses will be
available and that their testimony will be accurate. 
 
ANALYSIS: 
 
I.                   
LEGAL
STANDARD 
 
Stay 
 
The Court has the
inherent power to stay proceedings to accommodate the ends of justice. (Freiberg
v. City of Mission Viejo (1995) 33 Cal.App.4th 1484, 1489; see also OTO,
L.L.C. v. Kho (2019) 8 Cal.5th 111, 141 ["the power to stay
proceedings is incidental to the power inherent in every court to control the
disposition of the causes on its docket with economy of time and effort for
itself, for counsel, and for litigants.”] [citations and quotation marks
omitted].) A stay may be ordered "to avoid a multiplicity of suits and
prevent vexatious litigation, conflicting judgments, confusion and unseemly
controversy between litigants and courts." (Simmons v. Los. Angeles
County Superior Court (1950) 96 Cal.App.2d 119, 125.
 
An appeal stays
proceedings in the trial court "upon the matters embraced therein or
affected" by the judgment or appealed order. (C.C.P. § 916(a); see also Varian
Medical Systems, Inc. v. Delfino (2005) 35 Cal.4th 180.) "In
determining whether a proceeding is embraced in or affected by the appeal, we
must consider the appeal and its possible outcome in relation to the proceeding
and its possible results. Whether a matter is 'embraced' in or 'affected' by a
judgment or order within the meaning of section 916 depends on whether the
postjudgment or postorder proceedings on the matter would have any effect on
the 'effectiveness' of the appeal." (Varian, supra, 35 Cal.4th at
189 [internal quotation marks and citations omitted]. "If so, the
proceedings are stayed; if not, the proceedings are permitted." (Id.)
"A trial court proceeding also affects the effectiveness of an appeal if
the possible outcomes on an appeal and the actual or possible results on the
proceeding are irreconcilable." (Id. at 190.) 
 
Continuance of Trial 
 
Although continuances
of trials are disfavored, each request for a continuance must be considered on
its own merits. (CRC Rule 3.1332(c).) The Court may grant a continuance only on
an affirmative showing of good cause requiring the continuance. (CRC Rule
3.1332(c).) The Court may look to the following factors in determining whether
a trial continuance is warranted: 
 
·        
The unavailability of
an essential lay or expert witness because of death, illness, or other
excusable circumstances; 
·        
The unavailability of
a party because of death, illness, or other excusable circumstances; 
·        
The unavailability of
trial counsel because of death, illness, or other excusable circumstances; 
·        
The substitution of
trial counsel, but only where there is an affirmative showing that the
substitution is required in the interests of justice; 
·        
The addition of a new
party if: 
o  
The new party has not
had a reasonable opportunity to conduct discovery and prepare for trial; or 
o  
The other parties have
not had a reasonable opportunity to conduct discovery and prepare for trial in
regard to the new party's involvement in the case; 
·        
A party's excused
inability to obtain essential testimony, documents, or other material evidence
despite diligent efforts; or 
·        
A significant,
unanticipated change in the status of the case as a result of which the case is
not ready for trial. 
 
(CRC Rule
3.1332(c)(1)-(7).)
 
Other factors to
consider include: 
 
·        
the proximity of the trial date; 
·        
whether there was any previous continuance of
trial due to any party; 
·        
the length of the continuance requested; 
·        
the availability of alternative means to
address the problem that gave rise to the motion; 
·        
the prejudice that parties or witnesses will
suffer as a result of the continuance; 
·        
If the case is entitled to a preferential
trial setting, the reasons for that status and whether the need for a
continuance outweighs the need to avoid delay; 
·        
The court's calendar and the impact of
granting a continuance on other pending trials; 
·        
whether trial counsel is engaged in another
trial; 
·        
Whether all parties have stipulated to a
continuance 
·        
Whether the interests of justice are best
served by a continuance, by the trial of the matter, or by imposing conditions
on the continuance; and 
·        
Any other fact or circumstance relevant to
the fair determination of the motion or application. 
 
(CRC Rule
3.1332(d)(1)-(11).)
 
II.                
MERITS 
 
RJN 
 
Defendants’ request that the Court take judicial notice of
its September 6, 2024 order granting the City’s motion for summary judgment is granted.
The Court may take judicial notice of its own records. (See Dwan v. Dixon
(1963) 216 Cal.App.2d 260, 265 ["a court may take judicial notice of the
contents of its own records"].) 
 
Discussion 
 
The Court begins its discussion by noting that moving party
does not contend a stay must issue in this case pursuant to C.C.P. § 916(a).
Moving party appears to concede that trial for the claims not subject to the
City’s motion for summary judgment are not “embraced or affected” by
Plaintiffs’ appeal. The Court agrees. Given the foregoing, whether a stay of
proceedings may issue is a matter entirely within the Court's discretion.
Additionally, because the requested stay necessarily implicates the continuance
of trial, the Court must find the moving parties have demonstrated good cause
pursuant to the considerations under CRC Rule
3.1332. 
 
The Court notes that a great deal of time has passed since
this incident occurred. In the roughly six years this action has been pending,
one trial continuance has already been granted. On November 17, 2023, the
parties stipulated to an order continuing the five year rule under C.C.P. §
583.330 and to continue trial. The impetus behind this stipulation was the
understandable difficulty in completing discovery. The parties correctly
pointed out that the large number of percipient witnesses (over 50) and the existence
of criminal proceedings served to delay discovery significantly. 
 
Defendant correctly points out that judgment in favor of
the City precludes them from offering evidence of the City’s fault at trial.
C.C.P. § 437c(l) provides “In an action arising out of an injury to the person
or to property, if a motion for summary judgment is granted on the basis that
the defendant was without fault, no other defendant during trial, over
plaintiff's objection, may attempt to attribute fault to, or comment on, the
absence or involvement of the defendant who was granted the motion.” 
 
Defendants speculate that in the case of reversal, a second
trial in which they would be permitted to present evidence of the City’s
liability would be required. This leads Defendants to further speculate about
the possibility that they would be denied their right to seek indemnity if the
jury in the second trial awarded greater/lesser damages than the jury in the
first. Defendants also argue that because many of the witnesses and evidence
presented would overlap, a second trial would be a duplicative waste of
judicial resources. In light of these uncertainties, Defendants argue that a
stay of proceedings/continuance would be a simple measure to prevent the potential
burdens associated with a second trial. 
 
Plaintiffs’ argument that while a second trial may be
burdensome, it does not ultimately preclude Defendants from seeking indemnity
from the City if the summary judgment is reversed is persuasive. Plaintiffs
correctly point out that the trial court is vested with authority under C.C.P.
§ 1048(b) to partition actions involving common questions of law or fact where
doing so would be conducive to expedition and economy. Plaintiffs’ reason that,
should the summary judgment be reversed, Defendants would retain the ability to
bring/try an action for equitable indemnity as against the City. 
 
The Court finds that the contemplation of every permutation
raised in Defendant’s motion is unnecessary. If the Court were to consider
every possibility that resulted from its granting of summary judgment for a
single defendant in a multi-defendant action, no such matter would ever go to
trial in a timely manner. The far more pressing consideration is whether any of
the hypotheticals Defendants present result in their complete inability to seek
indemnity from the City. The answer to that question is no. Though the
procedure upon reversal is uncertain, Defendants have presented no situation in
which they would be absolutely barred from seeking indemnity. The difficulty
and expense in obtaining such relief are but two of the many interests the
Court must balance in making its decision. 
 
In contrast Plaintiffs’ have shown they may be irreversibly
prejudiced by a stay/continuance. Plaintiff argues that a key consideration in
this motion is the availability of Defendant Bazoian as a witness.  Plaintiff argues that should a
stay/continuance be put in place, there exists the likelihood that Bazoian, who
will turn 89 in April 2025, would not survive to testify at the eventual trial.
Plaintiff further argues that her claim for punitive damages against Bazoian,
would not survive if he were to pass away before entry of judgment. (See C.C.P.
§ 377.42.) Plaintiff also notes that the passage of time has already eroded the
accuracy of potential witness testimony in this case and that further delay
would only exacerbate that issue. 
 
While the Court agrees that Plaintiffs face irreversible
prejudice, it finds their argument that Defendants “…would sustain no prejudice
absent a stay” to be unpersuasive. (Opp. p. 6.) Defendants have presented the
very real possibility that they could be forced to incur the additional expense
of a second trial or defend from potential appeals. This potential burden on
Defendants’ time and finances is a form of prejudice. The Court is not tasked
with deciding that one side is prejudiced and the other is not. Rather, the
Court must weigh the very real possibility of prejudice to both Plaintiffs and
Defendants. The Court must then take these considerations and excise its
discretion in issuing a ruling which will most promote the interests of
justice. 
 
The Court does not labor under any illusion that its
decision to deny a stay/continuance will create potential difficulties at a
later date. At the same time the Court finds the theoretical prejudice to
Defendants is not such that it precludes their right to assert claims for
indemnity should the summary judgment be reversed.  Furthermore, the Court also takes into
consideration that the appeal is only successful if the Court believes there is
a substantial likelihood that it erred in granting the summary judgment.  This may occur at times if the Court is
ruling based on an unclear or novel area of the law, but that is not the
instance here.  
 
The Court is disinclined to grant a stay in this action;
however, counsel may choose to seek a Court of Appeal stay if permitted and
suitable.  Accordingly, the motion is
DENIED. 
 
--- 
 
RULING:
 
In the
event the parties submit on this tentative ruling, or a party requests a signed
order or the court in its discretion elects to sign a formal order, the
following form will be either electronically signed or signed in hard copy and
entered into the court’s records. 
 
ORDER 
 
Farshad Rabbani, Time Zone NT. Properties,
LLC, Time Zone Properties, LLC, Tim Zone Ent. Properties, Inc., Time Zone
Entertainment, LLC, Haig Bazoian, and the Bazoian Trust’s Motion to Stay Proceedings/Continue Trial came on regularly for hearing on December 13, 2024, with
appearances/submissions as noted in the minute order for said hearing, and the
court, being fully advised in the premises, did then and there rule as
follows: 
 
THE MOTION TO STAY PROCEEDINGS/CONTINUE TRIAL IS
DENIED. 
 
DEFENDANT TIME ZONE PROPERTIES, LLC TO GIVE
NOTICE.  
 
IT IS SO
ORDERED. 
 
DATE: December
13, 2024                            _______________________________ 
                                                                   
    F.M.
TAVELMAN, Judge 
Superior Court of California 
County of
Los Angeles 
 
 
 