 Case Number:  24BBCV00238    Hearing Date:   December 13, 2024    Dept:  A MOTION TO
COMPEL DEPOSITION 

Los Angeles Superior Court
Case # 24BBCV00238

 



MP:  


Lee & Tiffany Nguyen (Plaintiff)
  




RP:  


General Motors, LLC (Defendant) 



 
NOTICE:
 

The Court is not
requesting oral argument on this matter.  The Court is guided by
California Rules of Court, Rule 3.1308(a)(1) whereby notice of intent to appear
is requested.  Unless the Court directs argument in the Tentative Ruling,
no argument is requested and any party seeking argument should notify all other
parties and the court by 4:00 p.m. on the court day before the hearing of the
party’s intention to appear and argue.  The tentative ruling will become
the ruling of the court if no argument is received.   
 
Notice may be given
either by email at BurDeptA@LACourt.org or by telephone at (818) 260-8412.
 
ALLEGATIONS: 
  
Lee &
Tiffany Nguyen (Plaintiffs) bring
this action against General Motors, LLC
(Defendant). Plaintiff alleges that Defendant sold them
a defective 2022 Chevrolet Silverado 1500 (Subject Vehicle) and thereafter
refused to repurchase the vehicle in violation of the Song-Beverly Act. 
 
Before the Court is a motion by Plaintiffs to compel the
deposition of Defendant’s Person Most Knowledgeable (PMK) as to a variety of
categories. Plaintiffs argue that despite noticing the deposition and
attempting to meet and confer, Defendant has not produced its PMK. Defendant
opposes, arguing that they objected to a number of Plaintiffs’ deposition
categories and that Plaintiffs failed to meet and confer in good faith. Plaintiffs
did not file a reply by the required deadline established by C.C.P. § 1005(b).  
 
ANALYSIS: 
 
I.                   
LEGAL
STANDARD 
 
“If, after service of a deposition
notice, a party to the action or an officer, director, managing agent, or
employee of a party, or a person designated by an organization that is a party
under Section 2025.230, without having served a valid objection under Section
2025.410, fails to appear for examination, or to proceed with it, or to produce
for inspection any document, electronically stored information, or tangible
thing described in the deposition notice, the party giving the notice may move
for an order compelling the deponent’s attendance and testimony, and the
production for inspection of any document, electronically stored information,
or tangible thing described in the deposition notice.” (C.C.P. § 2025.450(a).)
 
II.                
MERITS 
 
Timeline 
 
On March
7, 2024, Plaintiffs served a Notice of Deposition of Defendant’s PMK. (Mandel
Decl. ¶ 3, Exh. 1.) The deposition was noticed for April 19, 2024. (Id.)
Plaintiffs state they received no response to this deposition notice and that
Defendant did not serve any formal objection. (Mandel Decl. ¶ 4.) Nor did
the deposition of Defendant’s PMK go forward. (Id.) 
 
On May
15, 2024, Plaintiffs’ counsel sent a meet and confer letter to Defendant’s
counsel. (Mandel Decl. ¶ 5, Exh. 2.) The body of this letter is reproduced
below: 
 
On March 7, 2024, our
office served Defendant with a Notice of Deposition for Defendant’s Person Most
Qualified with Production of Documents. This deposition was noticed for April
19, 2024. Defendant failed to serve objections to this deposition notice and it
failed to appear at the noticed deposition. 
 
I am reaching out to
meet and confer regarding alternative dates for this deposition. Please provide
dates by 5/29/24. To be clear, the deposition does not need to take place by
that date, but two weeks should be a sufficient amount of time to provide an
agreeable date and time for such deposition to occur. It is reasonable that we
get a date for June or early July. We are agreeable to conducting the
deposition in-person or via remote videoconference.
 
(Mandel
Decl. Exh. 2.) 
 
Defendant
thereafter served its untimely response to Plaintiffs’ Notice of Deposition. The
declaration of Plaintiffs’ counsel states that these responses were served on
May 31, 2024. (Mandel Decl. ¶ 3.) Defendant’s declaration states they were
served April 29, 2024. (Keshishian Decl. ¶ 3.) The court is unable to
verify the correct date the responses were served because they are attached to neither
Plaintiffs’ motion nor Defendant’s opposition. In any event, this response
occurred well beyond the noticed deposition date. 
 
On
May 31, 2024, Defendant sent a meet and confer letter to Plaintiffs’ counsel,
informing that they had served objections. (Mandel Decl. Exh. 3.) This letter
also stated Defendant’s refusal to stipulate to the deposition and refusal to
provide alternative dates until such time as Plaintiffs responded to Defendant’s
objection. (Id.) The letter concluded that Plaintiffs’ threats to file a
motion to compel deposition were detrimental to the meet and confer process,
despite the fact that Plaintiffs’ made no such threat in their meet and confer
correspondence. (Id.) 
 
On
June 3, 2024, Plaintiffs’ counsel responded to the meet and confer letter via
email. (Mandel Decl. Exh. 4.) Plaintiffs’ counsel expressed confusion at
Defendant’s claim that their objections were not reviewed. (Id.) The
email states: 
 
…we did, in fact, review Defendant's objections and we
set forth our position on their insufficiency in our original meet and confer
letter. Further, we agreed to withdraw category of examination number 4 in our
meet and confer letter. As Defendant agreed to produce its witness to the other
remaining categories, what scope still needs to be agreed upon?
 
From
June 7, 2024 to October 18, 2024, Plaintiffs’ counsel reached out several times
via email to confirm alternative dates but received no response. (Mandel Decl.
¶¶ 8-11, Exh. 4.) 
 
Discussion
 
The
Court finds Plaintiffs’ motion should be denied without prejudice for failure
to meet and confer in good faith for the reasons set forth below. 
 
A
motion under C.C.P. § 2025.450 must be accompanied by a meet and confer
declaration demonstrating that the moving party has made a reasonable and good
faith attempt at an informal resolution of each issue presented in the motion,
or, if the motion is based on the deponent's failure to attend the deposition
and to produce documents, it must be accompanied by a declaration stating that
the moving party has contacted the deponent to inquire about the nonappearance.
(C.C.P. §§ 2025.450(b)(2), 2016.040.) The Court
may deny a motion to compel discovery for lack of a reasonable and good faith
attempt to meet and confer. (Townsend v. Superior Court (1998) 61
Cal.App.4th 1431, 1436-1439; Obregon v. Superior Court (1998) 67
Cal.App.4th 424, 434-435.)
 
Here,
Plaintiffs unilaterally noticed the deposition of Defendant’s PMK on March 7,
2024 and received no response until well after the noticed deposition date. Despite
this, Plaintiff does not state whether arrangements for the deposition were
made, or a nonappearance taken. Further, Plaintiffs’ counsel did not begin the
meet and confer process until May 15, 2024. Plaintiffs provide no explanation
for why they waited nearly a month after the missed deposition date to begin informally
resolving this matter. 
 
Further,
Plaintiffs’ initial meet and confer letter contains no discussion of the
substance of Defendant’s objections. This may be because Defendant had yet to
serve any objections, but this cannot be known for sure because neither party
attached the objections to their moving papers. The Court also notes that the
content of these objections is not present in Plaintiffs’ separate statement, a
violation of CRC Rule 3.1345(c)(2). 
 
Plaintiffs’
failure to discuss the objections in the May 15 meet and confer letter does not
comport with statements made by their counsel in the June 3 email. The June 3
email first states that Plaintiffs reviewed the objections and addressed them
in their initial meet and confer letter. A review of the May 15 letter shows
this is not the case. The email also states Plaintiffs withdrew category number
four and Defendant’s thereafter agreed to produce their PMK. Again, none of
this information appears in the May 15 letter. Either there is additional meet
and confer correspondence the Court is not privy to, or the June 3 email is
entirely mistaken. In any event, the result is that Plaintiffs have not
demonstrated a good faith effort to resolve the issues before the Court prior
to bringing this motion.  
 
Accordingly,
the motion to compel the deposition of Defendant’s PMK is DENIED without
prejudice. The parties are ordered to further meet and confer regarding the
deposition in this case. If, after these efforts, Plaintiffs are still unable
to take the deposition of Defendant’s PMK, the Court invites Plaintiffs to
refile their motion. 
--- 
 
RULING:
 
In the
event the parties submit on this tentative ruling, or a party requests a signed
order or the court in its discretion elects to sign a formal order, the
following form will be either electronically signed or signed in hard copy and
entered into the court’s records. 
 
ORDER 
 
Lee &
Tiffany Nguyen’s Motion to Compel
Deposition came on regularly for hearing on December
13, 2024, with appearances/submissions as noted in the minute order for said
hearing, and the court, being fully advised in the premises, did then and there
rule as follows: 
 
THE MOTION TO COMPEL THE DEPOSITION OF DEFENDANT’S PMK IS
DENIED WITHOUT PREJUDICE.
 
DEFENDANT
TO GIVE NOTICE. 
 
IT IS SO
ORDERED. 
 
DATE: 
December 13, 2024                            _______________________________ 
                                                                   
    F.M.
TAVELMAN, Judge 
Superior Court of California 
County of
Los Angeles 
 