 Case Number:  24STCV00744    Hearing Date:   December 13, 2024    Dept:  A MOTIONS
TO COMPEL FURTHER RESPONSES

Los Angeles Superior Court
Case # 24STCV00744

 



MP:  


Christina & Gene Chung Ching
  (Plaintiffs)




RP:  


Obsidian Development, LLC (Defendant)



 
NOTICE:
 

The Court is not
requesting oral argument on this matter.  The Court is guided by
California Rules of Court, Rule 3.1308(a)(1) whereby notice of intent to appear
is requested.  Unless the Court directs argument in the Tentative Ruling,
no argument is requested and any party seeking argument should notify all other
parties and the court by 4:00 p.m. on the court day before the hearing of the
party’s intention to appear and argue.  The tentative ruling will become
the ruling of the court if no argument is received.   
 
Notice may be given
either by email at BurDeptA@LACourt.org or by telephone at (818) 260-8412.
 
ALLEGATIONS: 
 
Christina & Gene
Chung Ching (Plaintiffs) bring this action against Obsidian Development, LLC
(Defendant). Plaintiffs alleges that Defendant was hired to construct a
quadraplex on a property they own. Plaintiffs further allege that Defendant
deficiently constructed the building in violation of code and in breach of the
parties’ contract. 
 
On June
21, 2024, the Court granted Defendant’s motion to set aside the default which
was entered on March 15, 2024. 
 
Before
the Court are two motions to compel further responses to Plaintiffs’ Form
Interrogatories (FROG) and Special Interrogatories (SPROG). Defendant opposes
the motions and Plaintiffs reply. 
  
ANALYSIS: 
 
I.                   
LEGAL
STANDARD 
 
On
receipt of a response to interrogatories, the propounding party may move for an
order compelling a further response if the propounding party deems that the
responses contain: (1) answers that are evasive or incomplete, (2)¿an
unwarranted or insufficiently specific exercise of an option to produce
documents in lieu of a substantive response, or (3) unmerited or overly
generalized objections.  (C.C.P.
§¿2030.300(a).) The responding party has the burden of justifying the
objections thereto. (Coy v. Sup.Ct. (1962) 58 Cal.2d 210, 220-21.)
 
II.                
MERITS 
 
Reservation for Motion to Compel FROG 
 
The Court briefly addresses Defendant’s argument that it
lacks jurisdiction to determine Plaintiffs’ motion to compel further responses
to FROG. Defendant argues that Plaintiffs did not properly reserve a hearing
for this motion, as they did with the motion to compel further responses to
SPROG. The Court notes that only one hearing appears in its reservation system.
Regardless, Plaintiffs’ counsel has submitted the confirmation email which
states she reserved the hearing for this motion. The Court is uncertain how the
reservation was then removed from its calendar, but it appears it was through
no fault of Plaintiffs’. Further, Defendant appears to have had notice of the
motion and its hearing date such that they could interpose timely opposition.
As such, the Court finds the lack of reservation does not prejudice Defendant
and both motions shall be heard. 
 
Timeline 
 
The Court begins this section by noting that, despite the
fact that Plaintiffs’ declaration in support of their motion to compel FROG
identifies exhibits alphabetically (A, B, C, etc.), the exhibits attached are
labeled numerically. Further, Plaintiffs’ declaration in support of the motion
to compel SPROG does not label its exhibits at all. Given that these
declarations are 119 and 79 pages respectively, Plaintiffs’ failure to properly
label its exhibits has made review of this motion considerably more arduous
than necessary. 
 
On August 12, 2024, Plaintiffs’ served their Form
Interrogatories and Special Interrogatories on Defendant’s counsel via email.
(Sagheb Decl. ¶ 4) On August 23, 2024, Defendant’s counsel reached out to
inform Plaintiffs’ counsel that the discovery was mistakenly placed in his spam
folder and thus he has only just become aware of it. (Sagheb Decl. ¶ 6.;
Vance Decl. Exh. 1.) Defendant’s counsel requested an extension to September
27, 2024, which Plaintiffs’ counsel granted on August 29, 2024. (Id.) 
 
On September 6, 2024, Defendant’s counsel emailed to inform
that his client had been sick and he needed more time to get substantive
responses. (Sagheb Decl. ¶ 7, Vance Decl. Exh. 1.) Defendant’s counsel
requested an extension to October 6, 2024. (Id.) Plaintiffs’ counsel
responded thusly: 
 
Tyler, We told you the
last time that we would not offer any further extensions of time to respond. We
will agree to this final extension on condition that you confirm Plaintiff’s
deposition as currently scheduled on October 16, 2024.
 
(Vance Decl. Exh. 1.) 
 
On September 27, 2024, Defendant served responses to
Plaintiffs’ FROG and SPROG. (Sagheb Decls. at p. 49 & 21.) These responses
consisted entirely of objections and were unverified. (Id.) 
 
On September 29, 2024, Plaintiffs’ counsel sent an email
addressing the perceived deficiencies in Defendant’s responses. (Sagheb Decl.
¶ 9; Vance Decl. Exh. 2.) On October 4, 2024, Defendant’s counsel
responded thusly: 
 
As previously
explained to you. I need more time. There are large number of discovery
requests and we are working on compiling supplemental responses. 
 
I served as much as I
could substantive and used objections to preserve my client’s rights due to
your refusal to grant any additional time. I will not be able to meet your
short deadline, I am hoping to have responses to you by November 9. If you
don’t find that acceptable. Go file your motion. You have been nothing but
unprofessional in this matter, and to be clear. I nor my client are refusing to
respond but have simply requested additional time. 
 
You served 60 RFAs, 69
RFPs, Form Rogs, and 29 Special Rogs. This is being served on an entity for a
transaction that happened over 3 years ago. Your requests are broad and
burdensome and we are doing out best to get you as much information as
possible.
 
(Vance Decl. Exh. 2.) 
 
Plaintiffs’ counsel responded with the following: 
 
We take exception to
your name-calling as well as your cavalier and incorrect attitude towards a
motion to compel. 
 
First, we absolutely
did and literally so. All that we requested was that you confirm that the
deposition of your client would go forward as scheduled on October 16, 2024.
You neither responded to our request for confirmation nor set forth any other
date on which your client would appear for deposition. 
 
Second, as you know,
we only have 45 days to bring that motion. Giving you until November 9, which
is a Saturday, would put us at the cusp of being required to file a motion if
you do not serve supplemental responses. 
 
Third, we are not
required to give you any extension at all. The code is quite clear as to when
your responses are due and when motions must be filed. 
 
Fourth, we see
requests for extensions from your client as nothing but further delay and in
this case you are requesting not only delay but in a fashion that prejudices
our clients’ rights to bring the necessary motions. We cannot give you until
November 9. In fact, we were very generous of you until October 11 in view of
the fact that your client’s deposition is set for October 16. 
 
Without stooping to
your level of name-calling, you should review your own communications to gauge
your own level of professional professionalism and civility. 
 
We will contact the
court to determine whether an IDC is necessary in this matter and if not then
we will proceed with the motion, as you have requested.
 
(Vance Decl. Exh. 2.) Plaintiffs’ counsel responded with the following:  We take exception to
your name-calling as well as your cavalier and incorrect attitude towards a
motion to compel.  First, we absolutely
did and literally so. All that we requested was that you confirm that the
deposition of your client would go forward as scheduled on October 16, 2024.
You neither responded to our request for confirmation nor set forth any other
date on which your client would appear for deposition.  Second, as you know,
we only have 45 days to bring that motion. Giving you until November 9, which
is a Saturday, would put us at the cusp of being required to file a motion if
you do not serve supplemental responses.  Third, we are not
required to give you any extension at all. The code is quite clear as to when
your responses are due and when motions must be filed.  Fourth, we see
requests for extensions from your client as nothing but further delay and in
this case you are requesting not only delay but in a fashion that prejudices
our clients’ rights to bring the necessary motions. We cannot give you until
November 9. In fact, we were very generous of you until October 11 in view of
the fact that your client’s deposition is set for October 16.  Without stooping to
your level of name-calling, you should review your own communications to gauge
your own level of professional professionalism and civility.  We will contact the
court to determine whether an IDC is necessary in this matter and if not then
we will proceed with the motion, as you have requested. (Vance Decl. Exh. 2.)  On October 4, 2024, Defendant’s counsel responded to the
above by expressing his willingness to extend an open-ended Plaintiffs’
deadline to file a motion to compel. (Vance Decl. Exh. 2.)  Discussion  C.C.P. § 2030.300(b)(1) requires that any motion to compel
further responses be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration made pursuant
to C.C.P. § 2016.040. In turn, C.C. P. §
2016.040 requires that the moving party have made “a reasonable and good faith
attempt at an informal resolution of each issue presented by the motion.”  Consideration as to whether a good faith meet
and confer effort has been made entrusted to the trial court's discretion and
judgment, with due regard for all relevant circumstances. (Obregon v.
Superior Court (1998) 67 Cal.App.4th 424, 432.) “A single letter, followed
by a response which refuses concessions, might in some instances be an adequate
attempt at informal resolution, especially when a legitimate discovery
objective is demonstrated. The time available before the motion filing
deadline, and the extent to which the responding party was complicit in the
lapse of available time, can also be relevant. An evaluation of whether,
from the perspective of a reasonable person in the position of the discovering
party, additional effort appeared likely to bear fruit, should also be
considered” (Id. [emphasis added].)  For purposes of determining whether a motion to compel
discovery was preceded by a reasonable and good faith effort to meet and
confer, such a reasonable and good faith attempt at informal resolution entails
something more than bickering with opposing counsel; rather, the law requires
that counsel attempt to talk the matter over, compare their views, consult, and
deliberate.  (Clement v. Alegre (2009) 177 Cal.App.4th 1277, 1294) As Plaintiffs’ counsel correctly points out, the purpose of
the meet and confer requirement under C.C.P.§ 2016.040 is to “…to encourage the
parties to work out their differences informally so as to avoid the necessity
for a formal order...This, in turn, will lessen the burden on the court and
reduce the unnecessary expenditure of resources by litigants through promotion
of informal, extrajudicial resolution of discovery disputes.” (Townsend v.
Superior Court (1998) 61 Cal.App.4th 1431, 1435.)  In evaluating the meet and confer efforts of Plaintiffs’
counsel prior to bringing this motion, the Court finds Plaintiffs’ counsel
unnecessarily curtailed the possibility of obtaining compliant responses
without court intervention.   Plaintiffs’ counsel may not be legally obligated to grant
extensions of time to respond, but her manner of refusal indicates a lack of
“serious effort at negotiation and informal resolution.” (Id. at 1438.)
This is doubly so for her attempt to condition an additional extension upon the
deposition of Defendant. Plaintiffs’ counsel was clearly apprised that
Defendant was working to get her responses but needed more time to provide
sufficient responses. Plaintiffs’ response was not a reasonable attempt to
engage with the difficulties Defendant faced in obtaining code compliant
responses. This refusal appears further unreasonable in light of the fact that
Defendant was only requesting an extension of 21 days from the original
discovery deadline.  The Court finds the September 29 letter and the ensuing
conversation also evidence a lack of good faith meet and confer effort. While
Plaintiffs’ letter did direct specific arguments at Defendant’s objections, the
response of Plaintiffs’ counsel thereafter is unsatisfactory. Defendant’s
counsel informed, as he had prior, that he was experiencing difficulty in
getting responses and needed more time. Defendant also informed that he only
asserted the boilerplate objections to preserve his clients rights and intended
to supplement to provide actual responses to the questions. Plaintiffs’ counsel
responded by accusing Defendant’s counsel of name-calling and asserting that they
were generous to have provided any extension at all. The tone and content of
this reply are not indicative of an attempt to reach informal resolution.  In short, the efforts of Plaintiffs’ counsel did not
attempt good faith resolution and in fact created an unnecessarily adversarial
posture between themselves and Defendant’s counsel. The communication from
Plaintiffs’ counsel has only served to prolong the delay in receiving the
discovery they seek, a delay which this motion purportedly seeks to avoid.
Rather than respond to the reasonable request for extension in hopes that it
would facilitate the receipt of sufficient responses, Plaintiffs’ counsel erected
a wall. It is this Court’s firm belief that the role of an attorney is to
reduce the temperature of litigation, not to increase it.  Accordingly, Plaintiffs’ motions to compel further
responses are DENIED without prejudice. The Court is confident that counsel for
the parties will renew their meet and confer efforts in earnest and reach an
informal resolution. Should Plaintiffs continue to experience issues in
receiving sufficient responses after renewed meet and confer, the Court invites
them to refile their motion. ---  RULING: In the
event the parties submit on this tentative ruling, or a party requests a signed
order or the court in its discretion elects to sign a formal order, the
following form will be either electronically signed or signed in hard copy and
entered into the court’s records.  ORDER  Christina & Gene
Chung Ching’s Motion to Compel Further Responses came
on regularly for hearing on December 13, 2024, with appearances/submissions as
noted in the minute order for said hearing, and the court, being fully advised
in the premises, did then and there rule as follows:  THE MOTIONS TO COMPEL FURTHER RESPONSES ARE
DENIED WITHOUT PREJUDICE.  DEFENDANT TO GIVE NOTICE.  IT IS SO
ORDERED.  DATE: 
December 13, 2024                          _______________________________                                                                    
    F.M.
TAVELMAN, Judge Superior Court of California County of
Los Angeles 
 