 Case Number:  23GDCV01999    Hearing Date:   December 13, 2024    Dept:  A MOTIONS
TO COMPEL DISCOVERY RESPONSES 

Los Angeles Superior Court
Case # 23GDCV01999

 



MP:  


Davit
  and Noro Reganyan (Plaintiffs) 




RP:  


Ford Motor Company (Defendant)



 
NOTICE:
 

The Court is not
requesting oral argument on this matter.  The Court is guided by
California Rules of Court, Rule 3.1308(a)(1) whereby notice of intent to appear
is requested.  Unless the Court directs argument in the Tentative Ruling,
no argument is requested and any party seeking argument should notify all other
parties and the court by 4:00 p.m. on the court day before the hearing of the
party’s intention to appear and argue.  The tentative ruling will become
the ruling of the court if no argument is received.   
 
Notice may be given
either by email at BurDeptA@LACourt.org or by telephone at (818) 260-8412.
 
ALLEGATIONS: 
 
Davit and Noro Reganyan (Plaintiffs) bring this action against
Ford Motor Company (Ford). Plaintiffs allege that Ford sold them a
defective 2021 Ford Bronco Sport (Subject Vehicle) and thereafter refused to
repurchase the vehicle in violation of the Song-Beverly Act.
 
Before the Court is Plaintiffs’ motion to compel the initial
response of Ford to their Request for Production of Documents (RFPD) Set Two. Plaintiffs
do not request sanctions in connection with the motion.  Ford opposes the motion, stating they have
subsequently served code compliant responses to the discovery. 
 
ANALYSIS: 
 
I.                   
LEGAL
STANDARD 
 
Where
there has been no timely response to a demand to produce documents, the
demanding party may seek an order compelling a response.  (C.C.P. §
2031.300(b).)  Failure to timely respond waives all objections, including
privilege and work product.  (C.C.P. § 2031.300 (a).)  Thus, unless
the party to whom the demand was directed obtains relief from waiver, he or she
cannot raise objections to the documents demanded. There is no deadline for a
motion to compel responses.  Likewise, for failure to respond, the moving
party need not attempt to resolve the matter outside court before filing the
motion. 
 
II.                
MERITS 
 
Facts 
 
On
August 22, 2024, Plaintiffs served their RFPD Set Two on Ford’s counsel via
email. (Sogoyan Decl. ¶ 8, Exh. 1.) Plaintiffs state they received no
response to these RFPD within the statutory deadline of September 21, 2024.
(Sogoyan Decl. ¶ 9.) At the time this motion was made, Plaintiffs remained
without responses. (Sogoyan Decl. ¶ 12.) 
 
Ford’s
counsel represents that responses were not timely served because of an error in
calendaring. (Brignoni Decl. ¶ 2.) Ford’s counsel states that when the
email service came in, it was not put on calendar because she was sick. (Id.)
Ford’s counsel states they served responses to RFPD Set Two on December 2,
2024. (Brignoni Decl. Exh. A at p. 97.) Ford thus argues that the instant
motion is moot. 
 
In
reply, Plaintiffs’ counsel argues that they are still without sufficient responses.
Plaintiffs’ counsel states that the December 2, 2024 responses are insufficient
because they (1) are unverified, (2) primarily consist of objections which were
waived by failure to timely respond, and (3) failed to produce all responsive
documents pursuant to those objections. (Sogoyan Reply Decl. ¶ 14, Exh.
2.) 
 
Discussion 
 
Despite
Ford’s December 2, 2024 responses, the Court finds Plaintiffs’ motion is not
moot. 
 
“In many
cases involving untimely responses, the propounding party will take the motion
off calendar or narrow its scope to the issue of sanctions. If the propounding
party proceeds with the motion, however, the trial court has the discretion to
rule on the motion. The trial court might compel responses without objection
if it finds no legally valid responses have been provided…” (Sinaiko
Healthcare Consulting, Inc. v. Pacific Healthcare Consultants (2007) 148
Cal.App.4th 390. [emphasis added])
 
Here,
Plaintiffs have shown that Ford’s responses were not valid by virtue of being
unverified. “Unverified responses are tantamount to no responses at all.” (Appleton
v. Superior Court (1988) 206 Cal.App.3d 632, 636.) Because Ford has not
rendered verified responses, the impetus behind Plaintiffs’ motion remains
cogent. Since Ford has failed to provide verified responses, which is a basic
tenant for filing such responses, Ford is ordered produce verified responses
without objection pursuant to C.C.P. § 2031.300.  Ford provide to explanation for violation of
the code and providing unverified responses.
 
Ford’s
argument that it should be relieved from its waiver due to mistake,
inadvertence, or excusable neglect of its counsel may have merit, but is not properly
before the Court at this time. C.C.P. § 2031.300 is clear that relief from
waiver in this instance may only be granted upon noticed motion. (C.C.P.§
2031.300(a).) Had the oversight simply was a calendaring error that would be
one thing, but the oversight was compounded by providing unverified
responses.  Even had Ford properly moved
for relief from waiver, it has not sufficiently shown that it is entitled to
such relief. C.C.P.§ 2031.300(a)(1) requires the party seeking relief
demonstrate that they have subsequently served a response that is in substantial
compliance with the relevant code C.C.P. §§ 2031.210, 2031.220, 2031.230,
2031.240, and 2031.280. 
 
“Substantial
compliance…means actual compliance in respect to the substance essential to
every reasonable objective of the statute. Where there is compliance as to all
matters of substance technical deviations are not to be given the stature of
noncompliance…When the plaintiff embarks on a course of substantial compliance,
every reasonable objective of the statute at issue has been satisfied." (Malek
v. Blue Cross of California (2004) 121 Cal.App.4th 44, 72.) 
 
Notably,
C.C.P.§ 2031.300(a)(1) does not require Ford to demonstrate substantial
compliance with the section requiring verification, C.C.P. § 2031.250.
Regardless, as previously stated, Ford’s failure to verify has the general
effect of negating the validity of their untimely responses such that a
determination of substantial compliance cannot currently be reached.  
 
Lastly,
the Court addresses Plaintiffs’ argument that Ford’s responses are not
substantially code compliant because they contain objections which Ford waived.
In the Court’s view, the presence of objections in untimely responses does not factor
into substantial compliance. In fact, one of the code sections with which Ford
must substantially comply, C.C.P. § 2031.240, specifically contemplates the
assertion of objections. It would make little sense for the Legislature to
include C.C.P. § 2031.240 in the requirement for substantial compliance if the
assertion of objections in untimely responses were always improper. 
 
In
short, the Court finds Ford’s unverified responses are insufficient to moot
Plaintiff’s motion. Ford has not moved for relief from its waiver of objections
nor demonstrated it is entitled to that relief.  Accordingly, Plaintiffs’ motion is GRANTED. 
 
Sanctions

 
The Court
elects to not assess sanctions as Plaintiffs have not requested them in
connection with this motion. 
--- 
 
RULING:
 
In the
event the parties submit on this tentative ruling, or a party requests a signed
order or the court in its discretion elects to sign a formal order, the
following form will be either electronically signed or signed in hard copy and
entered into the court’s records. 
 
ORDER 
 
Davit and Noro Reganyans’ Motions
to Compel Responses to Discovery came on regularly
for hearing on December 13, 2024, with appearances/submissions as noted in the
minute order for said hearing, and the court, being fully advised in the
premises, did then and there rule as follows: 
 
THE MOTION TO COMPEL RESPONSES TO PLAINTIFFS’
REQUESTS FOR PRODUCTION SET TWO IS GRANTED. 
 
PLAINTIFFS TO GIVE NOTICE. 
 
IT IS SO ORDERED. 
  
DATE: December
13, 2024                            _______________________________ 
                                                                   
    F.M. Tavelman, Judge 
Superior Court of California 
County of
Los Angeles 