 Case Number:  23BBCV00949    Hearing Date:   December 13, 2024    Dept:  A MOTION FO
LEAVE TO AMEND

Los Angeles Superior Court
Case # 23BBCV00949

 



MP:  


Financial Pacific Leasing, Inc.
  (Plaintiff) 




RP:  


Rolando Flores dba Flores Transport
  (Defendant)



 
NOTICE:
 

The Court is not
requesting oral argument on this matter.  The Court is guided by
California Rules of Court, Rule 3.1308(a)(1) whereby notice of intent to appear
is requested.  Unless the Court directs argument in the Tentative Ruling,
no argument is requested and any party seeking argument should notify all other
parties and the court by 4:00 p.m. on the court day before the hearing of the
party’s intention to appear and argue.  The tentative ruling will become
the ruling of the court if no argument is received.   
 
Notice may be given
either by email at BurDeptA@LACourt.org or by telephone at (818) 260-8412.
 
ALLEGATIONS: 
 
On May 1, 2023, Financial Pacific Leasing,
Inc. (Plaintiff) filed this action against Rolando Flores dba Flores Transport
(Defendant). Plaintiff alleged that Defendant was improperly in possession of
2018 Freightliner PX12664ST (the Subject Equipment) that was financed from
Plaintiffs. Plaintiff’s Complaint stated causes of action for (1) Breach of
Contract, (2) Breach of Guaranty, (3) Account Stated, and (4) Claim and
Delivery. 
 
On May 22, 2023, Plaintiff filed a notice of
stay of proceedings related to Defendant’s filing for Bankruptcy. On January 2,
2024, the Court conducted a Status Conference re: Bankruptcy, at which time the
Court conferred with Plaintiff’s counsel and set an OSC re: Dismissal for April
8, 2024. Neither party appeared at the April 8, 2024 hearing, prompting the
Court to dismiss the case without prejudice. Plaintiff thereafter moved for,
and was granted, an order setting aside the dismissal. 
 
Before the Court is a motion by Plaintiff for
leave to amend their Complaint pursuant to C.C.P. § 473. Plaintiff explains
that Defendant obtained discharge in his Bankruptcy filing but has retained
possession of the Subject Equipment. (Iezza Decl. ¶ 6.) As such, Plaintiff
seeks permission of the Court to amend its Complaint to state a singular cause
of action for Conversion.
  
ANALYSIS: 
 
The Court
finds Plaintiff’s motion to be unnecessary, as Plaintiff is entitled by statute
to amend their Complaint. C.C.P. § 472 provides the following: 
 
A party may amend its pleading once without
leave of the court at any time before the answer, demurrer, or motion to strike
is filed, or after a demurrer or motion to strike is filed but before the
demurrer or motion to strike is heard if the amended pleading is filed and
served no later than the date for filing an opposition to the demurrer or
motion to strike. A party may amend the pleading after the date for filing an
opposition to the demurrer or motion to strike, upon stipulation by the
parties. The time for responding to an amended pleading shall be computed from
the date of service of the amended pleading.
 
Upon review the Court finds that no
responsive pleading was ever filed in regard to Plaintiff’s Complaint.  Nor has Plaintiff previously amended their
Complaint such that their statutory right to an initial amendment without leave
of the Court was exhausted. While the Court is unaware of any authority which
precludes Plaintiff from seeking leave to amend in such cases, the fact remains
that doing so appears unnecessary where Plaintiff retains the right to amend
without leave pursuant to C.C.P. § 472. Accordingly, the Court finds
Plaintiff’s motion is GRANTED. 
--- 
 
RULING:
 
In the
event the parties submit on this tentative ruling, or a party requests a signed
order or the court in its discretion elects to sign a formal order, the
following form will be either electronically signed or signed in hard copy and
entered into the court’s records. 
 
ORDER 
 
Financial Pacific
Leasing, Inc.’s Motion for Leave to Amend came on
regularly for hearing on December 13, 2024, with appearances/submissions as
noted in the minute order for said hearing, and the court, being fully advised
in the premises, did then and there rule as follows: 
 
THE MOTION FOR LEAVE TO AMEND IS DENIED AS GRANTED.

 
PLAINTIFF IS ENTITLED TO FILE THEIR FIRST AMENDMENT
COMPLAINT AS A MATTER OF RIGHT IN ACCORDANCE WITH C.C.P.§ 472.
 
CASE MANAGEMENT CONFERENCE AND OSC RE PROOF OF SERVICE
OF FIRST AMENDED COMPLAINT IS SET FOR APRIL 24, 2025 AT 9:00 AM.
 
PLAINTIFF TO GIVE NOTICE. 
 
IT IS SO
ORDERED. 
 
DATE: 
December 13, 2024                          _______________________________ 
                                                                   
    F.M.
TAVELMAN, Judge 