  Case Number:  22STCV22616    Hearing Date:   February 27, 2024    Dept:  C M. F. vs The Evangelical Covenant Church, et
al.
Case No.: 22STCV22616
Hearing Date: February 27, 2024 @ 10:30 AM
 
#3 
Tentative Ruling 
Counsel for Plaintiff’s Motion to be Relieved as Counsel
is GRANTED. The order shall take effect when proof of service
of the signed order has been filed with the court. 

Counsel for
Plaintiff to give NOTICE. 
This is a sexual misconduct action. 
Plaintiff’s Counsel, Michael Carney, Simona Danesh, and Slater
Slater Schulman LLP move to be relieved as counsel. 
Good cause
exists to grant the motion based on any of the grounds under Rules of
Professional Conduct Rule 3-700(C). Rule 3-700(c) provides that an attorney may
withdraw based on any of the following: (1) The client (a) insists upon
presenting a claim or defense that is not warranted under existing law and
cannot be supported by good faith argument for an extension, modification, or
reversal of existing law, or (b) seeks to pursue an illegal course of conduct,
or (c) insists that the member pursue a course of conduct that is illegal or
that is prohibited under these rules or the State Bar Act, or (d) by other
conduct renders it unreasonably difficult for the member to carry out the
employment effectively, or (e) insists, in a matter not pending before a tribunal,
that the member engage in conduct that is contrary to the judgment and advice
of the member but not prohibited under these rules or the State Bar Act, or (f)
breaches an agreement or obligation to the member as to expenses or fees. (2)
The continued employment is likely to result in a violation of these rules or
of the State Bar Act; or (3) the inability to work with co-counsel indicates
that the best interests of the client likely will be served by withdrawal; or
(4) The member's mental or physical condition renders it difficult for the
member to carry out the employment effectively; or (5) The client knowingly and
freely assents to termination of the employment; or (6) The member believes in
good faith, in a proceeding pending before a tribunal, that the tribunal will
find the existence of other good cause for withdrawal. 
The
attorney declaration demonstrates good cause for withdrawal based on a
breakdown in the attorney-client relationship. The clients were served by mail
at their last known addresses, which were confirmed to be current within the
past 30 days. 
The motion
is GRANTED.  The order shall take effect when proof of service of the signed
order has been filed with the court. 
 
 