Here is the summary in YAML format:

```
Case Number: 21STCV37435
Plaintiff's Name: John Alver Mendoza Tolentino, Safia Tolentino, John Alver Tolentino, Savannah Tolentino
Defendant's Name: Binghui Zhao
People-Names: Mark W. Eisenberg, John Alver Mendoza Tolentino, Safia Tolentino, John Alver Tolentino, Savannah Tolentino, Binghui Zhao
Company-Names: Pomponio Law Firm, LLC
Places: 
Dates: August 31, 2023, October 24, 2023, April 11, 2024
Events: Motion to be Relieved as Counsel
Money: 
Intentions: To be relieved as counsel for the plaintiffs
Facts: 
Disputes: None (unopposed motion)
Acts: Filing of a motion to be relieved as counsel
Agreements: None
Laws: California Rule of Court rule 3.1362, Code of Civil Procedure section 284(1) and section 284(2)
Case Citations: Ramirez v. Sturdevant (1994) 21 Cal.App.4th 904, 915, People v. Prince (1968) 268 Cal.App.2d 398, 406
Statutes: None
Roles: Mark W. Eisenberg (attorney for plaintiffs), John Alver Mendoza Tolentino, Safia Tolentino, John Alver Tolentino, Savannah Tolentino (plaintiffs), Binghui Zhao (defendant), Judge Kerry Bensinger (judge)
Significant Statements: The court has discretion to allow an attorney to withdraw, and such a motion should be granted provided that there is no prejudice to the client, and it does not disrupt the orderly process of justice.
```

And here is a summary in English text:

Judge Kerry Bensinger has issued a tentative ruling on a motion filed by Mark W. Eisenberg, an attorney for the plaintiffs, to be relieved as counsel for the plaintiffs. The motion is unopposed. The plaintiffs, John Alver Mendoza Tolentino, Safia Tolentino, John Alver Tolentino, and Savannah Tolentino, have moved on from their last known address and have not provided their counsel with a forwarding address or phone number. The attorney has received no communications from the plaintiffs for more than six months and has been unable to locate them. The judge finds that the motion complies with the California Rules of Court and grants the motion. The motion is granted and will become effective upon the filing of proof of service of the signed order on the plaintiffs.