 Case Number:  21STCV21084    Hearing Date:   October 24, 2023    Dept:  27 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Kerry Bensinger, Department 27
 
 
HEARING DATE:     October
24, 2023                               TRIAL
DATE:  February 9, 2024
                                                           
CASE:                         Galina Kopelev v. Churchill Condominium Association
 
CASE NO.:                 21STCV21084
 





















 
PLAINTIFF’S
MOTION TO COMPEL RESPONSES TO DISCOVERY
 
PLAINTIFF’S
MOTION TO COMPEL FURTHER RESPONSES TO DISCOVERY
 
DEFENDANT’S
MOTIONS TO COMPEL FURTHER RESPONSES TO DISCOVERY 



 
MOVING PARTY:               Defendant Churchill Condominium Association
 
RESPONDING PARTY:     Plaintiff Galina
Kopelev; Defendant Churchill Condominium Association
 
 
I.          INTRODUCTION
 
On June 4, 2021, Plaintiff, Galina Kopelev, initiated this action
against Defendant, Churchill Condominium Association, for injuries arising from
a slip and fall in the sauna of Defendant’s premises. 
 
On September 15, 2023, the following motions were filed:
 
·        
Defendant’s motion to compel Plaintiff’s
responses to Form Interrogatories, Set Two. 
  
·        
Defendant’s motions to compel
Plaintiff’s further responses to Demand for Identification and Production of
Documents, Set Two, and Special Interrogatories, Set Two. [1]
·        
Plaintiff’s
motion to compel Defendant’s further responses to Plaintiff’s First Set of Form
Interrogatories, Special Interrogatories, Request for Production of Documents,
and Requests for Admission.
 
On August 22, 2023, the parties participated in an Informal
Discovery Conference (IDC) regarding the foregoing motions.  
 
The Court rules as follows.
 
II.        LEGAL STANDARDS 
¿ 
            Compel
Initial Responses to Discovery
 
            If a party
to whom interrogatories were directed fails to serve a timely response, the
propounding party may move for an order to compel responses without
objections.¿ (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.290, subd. (b).)¿Failure to timely serve
responses waives objections to the requests.¿ (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.290,
subd. (a).)
 
            Compel
Further Responses to Discovery
            
            Under Code
of Civil Procedure sections 2030.300, 2031.310, and 2033.290 parties may move
for a further response to interrogatories requests for production of documents,
and requests for admission where an answer to the requests are evasive or
incomplete or where an objection is without merit or too general.  
 
            Notice of
the motions must be given within 45 days of service of the verified response,
otherwise, the propounding party waives any right to compel a further
response.  (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 2030.300, subd. (c); 2031.310, subd. (c);
2033.290, subd. (c).)  The motions must also be accompanied by a meet and
confer declaration.  (Code Civ. Proc., §§
2030.300, subd. (b)(1); 2031.310, subd. (b)(2); 2033.290, subd. (b)(1).)
 
            Finally,
Cal. Rules of Court, Rule 3.1345 requires that all motions or responses
involving further discovery contain a separate statement with the text of each
request, the response, and a statement of factual and legal reasons for
compelling further responses.  (Cal. Rules of Court, Rule 3.1345, subd.
(a)(3).) 
 
III.       DISCUSSION
 
A.  Defendant’s
Motion to Compel Responses to Form Interrogatories, Set Two 
 
Defendant propounded Form Interrogatories, Set Two, on
Plaintiff on May 10, 2023. To date, Plaintiff has failed to serve responses.¿
(See Cruz Decl.)¿ Therefore, all objections to the interrogatories are
waived.¿¿¿ 
 
Plaintiff has filed an opposition to this motion. The
opposition does not address the issues raised by Defendant’s motion.  Importantly, Plaintiff does not dispute that
she has not served responses to Defendant’s Form Interrogatories, Set Two.
 
As Defendant properly served the interrogatories and
Plaintiff failed to serve responses, the Court finds Defendant is entitled to
an order directing Plaintiff to provide responses to Form Interrogatories, Set Two.¿ 
 
B.  Defendant’s
Motion to Compel Further Responses to Special Interrogatories, Set Two
 
Defendant moves for an order compelling a further response
to Special Interrogatory, Set Two, Nos. 31-35. 
Nos. 31-35 ask Plaintiff to identify specific persons or companies and
information pertaining to her loss of earnings and/or loss of earning capacity
claims.  Plaintiff interposed the same
objection based on proprietary information and invasion of privacy.  
 
Plaintiff’s objections lack merit.  Defendant seeks information relevant to
Plaintiff’s loss of earnings/loss of earning capacity claims.  A further response to Special
Interrogatories, Set Two, Nos. 31-35 is warranted.  Plaintiff has not filed an opposition and
thus does not raise arguments directing a different result.
 
C. Defendant’s
Motion to Compel Further Responses to Demand for Identification and Production
of Documents, Set Two
 
            Defendant
moves for an order compelling a further response to Demand for Identification and
Production of Documents, Set Two, Nos. 1-10. 
Nos. 1-10 seek information related to Plaintiff’s complaints related to
the gym, spa, sauna, and/or bathrooms at the subject property and Plaintiff’s
alleged damages.   
 
            Plaintiff
responds as follows to Nos. 1-10:  “During
requested period of time Plaintiff has produced and communicated to the
Churchill HOA more than 1,500 WRITINGS regarding any type of complaints,
problems, lack of maintenance, lack of repair, lack of improvements, or
upgrades to any common areas at Churchill Condominium Association including but
not limited to the gym, spa, sauna, specifically addressing Churchill’s Board
Failure of the Fiduciary Duty, Misappropriation of Funds, Gross Negligence,
Professional Incompetence, Secret manipulations, lack of Transparency, etc.,
causing the Churchill’s HOA Deterioration, lack of Maintenance, lack of
Renovations, and as a result Personal Injury to the residents, as well as a
Condos’ value lack of Appreciation in the strong Real Estate market.
Specifically, the outdated Sauna was supposed to be repaired many years ago
based on the independent Audit’s Component Report. All Plaintiff’s WRITINGS are
in the possession of the Defendants and should be fully available for review.
Small extract of writings in Ex 1.” 
 
            This is not
a code-compliant response.  The Code of
Civil Procedure contemplates three forms of proper responses to a request for
production: (1) a statement of compliance in full or in part (CCP §
2031.220); (2) a statement of inability to comply (CCP § 2031.230); and (3) a
partial objection coupled with a statement of compliance or representation of
inability to comply (CCP § 2031.240).¿¿¿¿ 
¿ 
A statement of compliance under section 2031.220 has two
parts:¿¿¿¿ 
¿ 
(1) the responding party “shall state that the production,
inspection, copying, testing, or sampling, and related activity demanded, will
be allowed either in whole or in part,” and¿¿¿ 
¿ 
(2) “that all documents or things in the demanded category
that are in the possession, custody, or control of that party and to which no
objection is being made will be included in the production.”¿¿ 
¿ 
A representation of inability to comply under section
2031.230 has three parts:¿ the
statement must¿¿¿ 
¿ 
(1) affirm that a diligent search and reasonable inquiry has
been made in an effort to comply, and¿¿¿ 
¿ 
(2) the statement shall specify whether the inability to
comply is because “the particular item or category has never existed, has been
destroyed, has been lost, misplaced, or stolen, or has never been, or is no
longer, in the possession, custody, or control of the responding
party.”¿¿¿¿ 
¿ 
And, (3) The third part comes into play if the responding
party knows or believes someone else has possession of the documents:¿ if so,
“[t]he statement shall set forth the name and address of any natural person or
organization known or believed by that party to have possession, custody, or
control of that item or category of item.”¿
 
            Plaintiff
does not accomplish any of the foregoing. 
A further response to Special Interrogatories, Set Two, Nos. 1-10 is warranted.¿ 
 
D. Plaintiff’s
Motion to Compel Further Responses to First Set of Form Interrogatories,
Special Interrogatories, Request for Production of Documents, and Requests for
Admission 
 
Plaintiff moves for an order compelling further responses to
Plaintiff’s First Set of Form Interrogatories, Special Interrogatories, Request
for Production of Documents, and Requests for Admission.  
 
Plaintiff’s motion is untimely.  Notice of the motions must be given within 45
days of service of the verified response, otherwise, the propounding party
waives any right to compel a further response.  (Code Civ. Proc., §§
2030.300, subd. (c); 2031.310, subd. (c); 2033.290, subd. (c).)  Delaying
the motion to compel further responses to interrogatories beyond the 45-day
time limit deprives the court of jurisdiction to order further answers.¿ (Vidal
Sassoon, Inc. v. Superior Court (1983) 147 Cal.App3d 681, 685.)  Here, Plaintiff served Defendant with these
discovery requests in 2022.  Defendant
served Plaintiff with verified responses on October 3, 2022.  (See Opposition, Cruz Decl., Exs. 1-4.)  As the 45-day deadline has passed, the Court
is without jurisdiction to rule on Plaintiff’s motion.[2]  Given the Court’s disposition of Plaintiff’s
motion, the request for sanctions against defense counsel is denied. 
 
IV.       CONCLUSION
 
            Defendant’s
motion to compel Plaintiff’s responses to Form Interrogatories, Set Two, is GRANTED.  Plaintiff is ordered to provide responses to
the interrogatories within 30 days of the date of this order.
 
            Defendant’s
motions to compel Plaintiff’s further responses to Special Interrogatories, Set
Two, and Demand for Inspection and Production of Documents, Set Two, are
GRANTED.  Plaintiff is ordered to provide
further responses to these discovery requests within 30 days of the date of
this order.
 
            Plaintiff’s
motion to compel Defendant’s further responses to Plaintiff’s First Set of Form
Interrogatories, Special Interrogatories, Request for Production of Documents,
and Requests for Admission is DENIED.
 
Moving parties to give notice, unless waived. 
 
 
            
Dated:   October 24,
2023                               ___________________________________
                                                                                    Kerry
Bensinger
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court
 
            Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must send an
email to the Court at SSCDEPT27@lacourt.org indicating intention to submit on
the tentative as directed by the instructions provided on the court website at
www.lacourt.org.  Please be advised that if you submit on the tentative
and elect not to appear at the hearing, the opposing party may nevertheless
appear at the hearing and argue the matter.  Unless you receive a
submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume that others
might appear at the hearing to argue.  If the Court does not receive
emails from the parties indicating submission on this tentative ruling and
there are no appearances at the hearing, the Court may, at its discretion,
adopt the tentative as the final order or place the motion off calendar. 
 
 


