 Case Number:  22STCV04856    Hearing Date:   October 24, 2023    Dept:  27 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Kerry Bensinger, Department 27
 
 
HEARING DATE:     October
24, 2023                   TRIAL DATE: 
January 24, 2024
                                                           
CASE:                                Svetlana Dreyfuss v. Spire Hospitality, LLC, et al.
 
CASE NO.:                 22STCV04856
 





















 
MOTION
TO CONTINUE TRIAL



 
MOVING PARTY:                   Defendant
Grill Concepts Management, Inc., dba The Daily Grill Burbank
 
RESPONDING PARTY:     No opposition
 
 
I.          BACKGROUND
 
            On August 31, 2023, Defendant, Grill Concepts Managements,
Inc. dba The Daily Grill Burbank, filed this motion to continue the trial date and
related dates.  This is the second
request for a trial continuance.
 
            The motion
is unopposed.[1]
 
II.           LEGAL STANDARD FOR MOTION TO CONTINUE TRIAL
California Rules of Court, rule
3.1332, subdivision (b) outlines that “a party seeking a continuance of the
date set for trial, whether contested or uncontested or stipulated to by the
parties, must make the request for a continuance by a noticed motion or an ex
parte application under the rules in chapter 4 of this division, with
supporting declarations.  The party must make the motion or application as
soon as reasonably practical once the necessity for the continuance is
discovered.” 
Under California Rules of Court,
rule 3.1332, subdivision (c), the Court may grant a continuance only on an
affirmative showing of good cause requiring the continuance.  Circumstances that may indicate good cause
include “a party’s excused inability to obtain essential testimony, documents,
or other material evidence despite diligent efforts.”  The Court should
consider all facts and circumstances relevant to the determination, such as
proximity of the trial date, prior continuances, prejudice suffered, whether
all parties have stipulated to a continuance, and whether the interests of
justice are served.  (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1332, subd. (d).) 
III.      DISCUSSION
 
            Defendant argues
good cause exists to continue the trial date because additional time is
required to complete discovery.  Defendant
explains Plaintiff has not provided responses to Defendant’s written discovery
requests, which has forced Defendant to file motions to compel Plaintiff’s
responses.  Defendant reserved the
earliest available hearing dates, all of which are after the current trial
date.   Trial is currently set for January 24, 2024.  Defendant’s first discovery motions are
scheduled for January 31, 2024. For this reason, Defendant requests a trial
continuance to allow their discovery motions to be heard and to further prepare
for trial.   Defendant also requests all trial related dates to correspond
to the new trial date.
 
            Based on
the foregoing, the Court finds good cause exists to continue the trial date. Additional
time is needed to complete discovery.  As this is the second trial
continuance request only and no party has opposed this motion, the Court also
finds no prejudice will result from granting this motion.¿  
 
IV.       CONCLUSION 
 
The unopposed motion to continue trial is GRANTED.  The Final Status Conference scheduled for January
10, 2024 is CONTINUED to October 10, 2024 at 10:00 AM in Department 27 of
Spring Street Courthouse.  The Non-Jury
Trial scheduled for January 24, 2024 is CONTINUED to October 24, 2024 at 8:30
AM in Department 27 of Spring Street Courthouse.  All discovery cut-off dates, all pretrial
deadlines including discovery, expert, and motion cut-off dates are set to the
new trial date of October 24, 2024.
 
Moving party to give notice. 

 
Dated:   October 24,
2023                                            ___________________________________
                                                                                    Kerry
Bensinger
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court
 
            Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must send an
email to the Court at SSCDEPT27@lacourt.org indicating intention to submit on
the tentative as directed by the instructions provided on the court website at
www.lacourt.org.  Please be advised that if you submit on the tentative
and elect not to appear at the hearing, the opposing party may nevertheless
appear at the hearing and argue the matter.  Unless you receive a
submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume that others
might appear at the hearing to argue.  If the Court does not receive
emails from the parties indicating submission on this tentative ruling and
there are no appearances at the hearing, the Court may, at its discretion,
adopt the tentative as the final order or place the motion off calendar. 


