  Case Number:  21STCV16516    Hearing Date:   October 24, 2023    Dept:  27 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Kerry Bensinger, Department 27
 
 
HEARING DATE:     October
24, 2023                               TRIAL
DATE:  March 14, 2024
                                                           
CASE:                                Leonard Graham v. Ford Apartments, L.P., et al.
 
CASE NO.:                 21STCV16516
 





















 
MOTION
TO COMPEL PLAINTIFF TO ATTEND MULTIPLE 
INDEPENDENT
MEDICAL EXAMINATIONS



 
MOVING PARTY:               Defendants
Ford Apartments, L.P., et al.
 
RESPONDING PARTY:     Plaintiff Leonard
Graham
 
 
I.          INTRODUCTION
            
            On May 3, 2021, Plaintiff, Leonard Graham, filed a complaint
against Defendants, Ford Apartments, L.P. (“Ford Apartments”) and SRO Housing
Corporation (“SRO Housing”), for negligence, premises liability, and negligent
hiring, retention and supervision.  Plaintiff
was a tenant at Defendants’ property. 
Plaintiff alleges he was attacked at the property and sustained injuries,
including a traumatic brain injury and erectile dysfunction.  Plaintiff
later filed amendments to the complaint to name Knight Protective Services as
Doe 1 and GSG Protective Services CA, Inc. (“GSG”) as Doe 2.
 
             On September
28, 2023, Ford Apartments and SRO Housing (hereafter, “Defendants”) filed this
motion to compel Plaintiff to attend medical examinations with Dr. Clayton Lau,
a urologist, and Dr. Marc A. Cohen, a forensic psychiatrist.  On the same day, GSG filed a joinder to the
motion.  Defendants do not seek
sanctions.
 
            Plaintiff
filed an opposition, indicating that he has agreed to appear for the defense
medical examination with Dr. Lau.  As
such, the motion is moot as to Dr. Lau medical examination. With respect to the
examination with Dr. Cohen, Plaintiff argues Dr. Cohen is not qualified to
diagnose Plaintiff’s alleged traumatic brain injury.
 
            Defendant
replied.
            
II.        LEGAL STANDARD COMPELLING
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION
 
            In
any case in which a plaintiff is seeking recovery for personal injuries, any
defendant may demand one physical examination of the plaintiff where: (1) the
examination does not include any diagnostic test or procedure that is painful,
protracted, or intrusive; and (2) the examination is conducted at a location
within 75 miles of the residence of the examinee.  (Code Civ. Proc., §
2032.220, subd. (a).)  A defendant may make a demand for physical
examination without leave of the court after that defendant has been served or
has appeared (Code Civ. Proc., § 2032.220, subd. (b)), and the physical
examination demanded shall be scheduled for a date at least 30 days after
service (Code Civ. Proc., § 2032.220, subd. (d)).  
 
III.       DISCUSSION
            
            The sole issue to be decided is whether Dr. Cohen is
qualified to diagnose Plaintiff’s alleged traumatic brain injury.
 
            Plaintiff
argues a traumatic brain injury is primarily diagnosed by a neurologist or
neuropsychologist.  Dr. Cohen is not a
neurologist or neuropsychologist.  Rather,
Plaintiff points out Dr. Cohen is a forensic psychiatrist and further, forensic
psychiatrists typically work with courts to evaluate an individual’s competency
to stand trial and to provide sentencing recommendations.  
 
            Defendants
argue that Dr. Cohen possesses the necessary qualifications and experience to
diagnose Plaintiff’s traumatic brain injury. 
In support, Defendants direct the Court’s attention to Dr. Cohen’s
declaration and curriculum vitae which indicates, in relevant part, that Dr.
Cohen is a licensed physician who specializes in forensic psychiatry.  During his four-year residency training
program, Dr. Cohen was routinely involved in the diagnosis and treatment of
combat veterans who had sustained mild-to severe traumatic brain injuries.  Further, Dr. Cohen received instruction and
supervision from neuropsychologists while routinely performing neuropsychiatric
examinations.  Over the course of his
career, Dr. Cohen has performed hundreds of evaluations in clinical and
forensic settings related to traumatic brain injury.  After completing his residency, Dr. Cohen received
additional training from neuropsychologists to conduct psychological testing.  As such, Dr. Cohen possesses the capacity to
administer, score, and interpret tests used to assess brain injuries.  (Reply, Dr. Cohen Decl., ¶¶ 4-8.)   
 
            Based
on the foregoing, the Court finds Dr. Cohen is qualified to assess Plaintiff’s
claims of traumatic brain injury.  Dr.
Cohen is a licensed physician with the requisite experience and skills to
assess Plaintiff’s injuries.  
            
IV.       CONCLUSION
 
            The
motion as to the medical examination with Dr. Lau is MOOT.
 
            The
motion as to the medical examination with Dr. Cohen is GRANTED.  Plaintiff is ordered to appear for a medical
examination with Dr. Cohen on November 1, 2023, 10:00 a.m., at 333 S. Beverly
Drive, Suite 200, Beverly Hills, CA 90212. 

 
 
 
Moving party to give notice. 

 
 
 
Dated:   October 24,
2023                                         ___________________________________
                                                                                    Kerry
Bensinger
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court
 
            Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must send an
email to the Court at SSCDEPT27@lacourt.org indicating intention to submit on
the tentative as directed by the instructions provided on the court website at
www.lacourt.org.  Please be advised that if you submit on the tentative
and elect not to appear at the hearing, the opposing party may nevertheless
appear at the hearing and argue the matter.  Unless you receive a
submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume that others
might appear at the hearing to argue.  If the Court does not receive
emails from the parties indicating submission on this tentative ruling and
there are no appearances at the hearing, the Court may, at its discretion,
adopt the tentative as the final order or place the motion off calendar. 
 
 