  Case Number:  23STCV27752    Hearing Date:   October 25, 2024    Dept:  30 Dept.
30
Calendar
No.
1200 Management LLC vs. Shvartz, et. al.,
Case No. 23STCV27752
 
Tentative Ruling re: 
Defendants’ Demurrer to Plaintiff’s First Amended Complaint; Motion to
Strike
 
Liron Shvartz and
Black Rock Market Caffe, Inc. (Defendants) demur
to the First Amended Complaint (FAC) of 1200 Management LLC (Plaintiff).
Defendants also move to strike Plaintiff’s FAC, or alternatively, portions
thereof. Defendants’ demurrer is overruled and their motion to strike is denied.  Defendants are ordered to answer within ten
(10) days of today’s date.
 
A demurrer is
sustained where “[t]he pleading does not state facts sufficient to constitute a
cause of action.” (Code Civ. Proc., 430.10, subd. (e).) “A demurrer tests the
legal sufficiency of the factual allegations in a complaint.” (Yalung v.
State (2023) 98 Cal.App.5th 71, 80.) In reviewing a complaint’s legal
sufficiency, a court will treat the demurrer as admitting all material facts
properly pleaded, but not contentions, deductions or conclusions of law. (Esparza
v. Kaweah Delta Dist. Hospital (2016) 3 Cal.App.5th 547, 552.) It is well
settled that a “demurrer lies only for defects appearing on the face of the
complaint[.]” (Stevens v. Superior Court
(1999) 75 Cal.App.4th 594, 601.) “We not only treat the demurrer as admitting
all material facts properly pleaded, but also give the complaint a reasonable
interpretation, reading it as a whole and its parts in their context.” (Guclimane Co. v. Stewart Tit. Guaranty Co.
(1998) 19 Cal.4th 26, 38.) For purposes of ruling on a demurrer, the complaint
must be construed liberally by drawing reasonable inferences from the facts
pleaded. (Wilner v. Sunset Life Ins. Co.
(2000) 78 Cal.App.4th 952, 958.)
When ruling
on a demurrer, a court may only consider the complaint’s allegations or matters
which may be judicially noticed. (Blank,
supra, 39 Cal.3d at 318.) The Court may not consider any other extrinsic
evidence or judge the credibility of the allegations pleaded or the difficulty
a plaintiff may have in proving his allegations. (Ion Equipment Corporation v. Nelson (1980) 110 Cal.App.3d 868,
881.) A demurrer is properly sustained only when the complaint, liberally
construed, fails to state facts sufficient to constitute any cause of action. (Kramer v. Intuit Inc. (2004) 121
Cal.App.4th 574, 578.)
 
The Court
may, upon a motion, or at any time in its discretion, and upon terms it deems
proper, strike any irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted in any
pleading. (Code Civ. Proc., § 436, subd. (a).) The Court may also strike all or
any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of this
state, a court rule, or an order of the Court. (Id., § 436, subd. (b).)
The grounds for a motion to strike are that the pleading has irrelevant, false
or improper matter, or has not been drawn or filed in conformity with laws. (Id.,
§ 436.) The grounds for moving to strike must appear on the face of the
pleading or by way of judicial notice. (Id., § 437.)
 
Defendants demur to Plaintiff’s FAC on the
following grounds: (1) Plaintiff lacks standing; (2) Plaintiff fails to state
facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10,
subd. (e)); (3) Plaintiff’s cause of action is uncertain (id., § 430.10,
subd. (f)); and (4) there is a misjoinder of parties (id., § 430.10,
subd. (d)). 
 
Standing
Defendants demur on the basis that
Plaintiff does not have standing to bring the present action. Every action must
be prosecuted in the name of a real party in interest. (Id., § 367.) A
complaint filed by a party who lacks standing is subject to demurrer. (Cloud
v. Northrop Grumman Corp. (1998) 67 Cal.App.4th 995.) In an unlawful
detainer action, the successor in interest to a prior lessor is a proper
plaintiff. (Bank of America Nat. Trust & Savings Assn. v. Button (1937)
23 Cal.App.2d 651, 652–653.) Here, Plaintiff is a successor lessor pursuant to
contractual assignments of all interests. (FAC ¶ 9, Exs. C, D.) Thus, Plaintiff
has standing to bring the present action. 
 
Misjoinder of Parties
Defendants argue that Plaintiff’s FAC
is subject to demurrer because there has been a misjoinder of parties. A
demurrer should be sustained where there is misjoinder. (Code Civ. Proc., §
430.10, subd. (d).) Parties may be joined in one action if there is asserted
against them “(1) Any right to relief jointly, severally, or in the
alternative, in respect of or arising out of the same transaction, occurrence,
or series of transactions or occurrences and if any question of law or fact
common to all these persons will arise in the action; or (2) A claim, right, or
interest adverse to them in the property or controversy which is the subject of
the action.” (Id. § 379, subd. (a).) “It is not necessary that each
defendant be interested as to every cause of action or as to all relief prayed
for. Judgment may be given against one or more defendants according to their
respective liabilities.” (Id. § 379, subd. (b).) 
Here, Defendants argue that Plaintiff’s
first cause of action for breach of lease constitutes misjoinder because the
relevant lease binds only Liron Shvartz as an individual, while Plaintiff
asserts this cause of action against both Defendants. (FAC ¶ 16.) The lease in
question lists the parties as the original lessor and Liron Shvartz, an
individual. (Ex. A at p. 1.) However, both Defendants are listed as parties on
the signature page. (Id. at p. 17.) It appears that Shvartz intended for
both parties to be bound. Regarding the second lease, Defendants claim that it
is a forgery. When ruling on a demurrer, the Court assumes pleaded facts to be
true therefore Defendants’ argument is without merit. Questions of law common
to both parties will arise in this action concerning leases binding both
parties. Thus, there has been no misjoinder.
 
Plaintiff states facts sufficient to
constitute a cause of action.
Defendants argue that Plaintiff’s FAC
does not state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action for breach of
contract. Courts sustain demurrers where the pleading does not state facts
sufficient to constitute a cause of action. (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subd.
(e).) A party suing for breach of contract must establish: (1) the existence of
a contract; (2) Plaintiff’s performance or excuse for non-performance; (3) the
defendant’s breach; and (4) resulting damage to Plaintiff. (Piedmont Capital
Management, LLC v. McElfish (2023) 94 Cal.App.5th 961, 968.) 
 
Here, Plaintiff alleges the existence
of two contracts, both leases. (FAC ¶¶ 7–8, Exs. A, B.) Plaintiff also alleges
that it has performed all obligations required of it with respect to each lease.
(Id. ¶¶ 17, 25.) Plaintiff alleges that Defendants have breached both
leases. (Id. ¶¶ 16, 24.) And Plaintiff claims that it has incurred
damages. (Ibid.) Thus, Plaintiff has stated facts sufficient to
constitute breach of contract for both causes of action.
 
Plaintiff’s causes of action are not
uncertain.
Defendants argue that Plaintiff’s
causes of action are uncertain. A demurrer should be sustained where the
pleading is uncertain, ambiguous, or unintelligible. (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10,
subd. (f).) Defendants claim that the exhibits offered by Plaintiff contradict
factual assertions in its FAC. Defendants’ argument is not suited for demurrer,
where a liberal construction of the pleadings is demanded. Plaintiff’s
allegations might be weak considering these issues, but they are not rendered
unintelligible as required by statute.
 
Motion to Strike
Defendants move to
strike Plaintiff’s entire FAC on the ground that Plaintiff lacks standing. For
the reasons discussed above, Defendants’ motion to strike is denied on this
ground. Defendants also move to strike improper demands or requests for relief
from Plaintiff’s FAC, namely Plaintiff’s claim for attorney’s fees and prayer
for damages. 
 
A Plaintiff may claim
attorney’s fees where provided for by statute or agreed to by the parties.
(Code Civ. Proc., § 1021.) Plaintiff alleges that both relevant leases contain provisions
awarding attorney’s fees to the prevailing party in any dispute. (FAC ¶¶ 22, 30,
Exs. A, B.) Plaintiff has pleaded a contractual basis for attorney’s fees, and
thus Defendants’ motion to strike on this ground is denied. 
 
Defendants argue that
the Court should strike Plaintiff’s entire prayer for damages because it is
inconsistent with discovery. The grounds for moving to strike must appear on
the face of the pleading. (Code Civ. Proc., § 437.) Defendants’ motion is based
on extrinsic evidence. Thus, Defendants’ motion to strike is denied on this
ground as well.
 