 Case Number:  24STCV10880    Hearing Date:   October 25, 2024    Dept:  30 Dept. 30 
Calendar No. 
Hong vs. Beverly Hills Properties,
LLC, et. al., Case No. 24STCV10880
 
Tentative Ruling re:  Plaintiff’s Motion for Trial Preference
 
            Jane Hong
(Plaintiff) moves for an order granting trial preference pursuant to Code of
Civil Procedure section 36, subdivision (a). The motion is denied without
prejudice.
 
            If a party to a civil action is over
70 years old, they may petition the court for a trial preference. (Code Civ.
Proc., § 36, subd. (a).) The court must grant the trial preference if it finds
that: “(1) The party has a substantial interest in the action as a whole. (2)
The health of the party is such that a preference is necessary to prevent
prejudicing the party’s interest in the litigation.” (Ibid.) The court also
has discretion to grant any motion for preference supported by a showing that
it is in the interests of justice. (Id., § 36, subd. (e).) 
Movant
is 80 years old. (Hong Decl. ¶ 2.) As the Plaintiff in the present action, she
has a substantial interest in it. (Id. ¶ 1.) Plaintiff’s health issues
include weakening legs and memory. (Id. ¶ 3.) She recently suffered a
fall which continues to cause her pain. (Ibid.) Plaintiff does not offer
testimony regarding any specific diagnosis.
Defendants
point to Plaintiff’s work history as evidence of her good health. (Compl. ¶¶
16, 22.) The fact that Plaintiff still worked long weeks as recently as April
2024 has no bearing on her current health. Still, Plaintiff has not presented
evidence demonstrating that her health is 
such that she cannot assist her counsel or may be unavailable or unable
to testify at trial. Memory deterioration and weakening muscles are common in
old age. Thus, the Court does not find that Plaintiff has satisfied the
requirements of section 36, subdivision (a). Should Plaintiff present further
evidence of a condition likely to prejudice her interest in the litigation, the
Court will reconsider its ruling.
Defendants further argue
that Plaintiff’s motion should be denied because Defendants will be prejudiced
with respect to discovery. However, in granting a trial preference under
section 36(a), “[m]ere
inconvenience to the court or to other litigants is irrelevant. [Citation.]
Failure to complete discovery or other pretrial matters does not affect the
absolute substantive right to trial preference for those litigants who qualify
for preference under subdivision (a) of section 36.” (Swaithes v. Superior Court (1989) 212 Cal.App.3d
1082, 1085.) Additionally, Plaintiff afforded Defendants 6 months before
bringing the present motion for a trial preference, giving substantial time for
discovery.
Accordingly, the
motion is denied without prejudice. For the same reasons, the Court denies
Plaintiff’s alternative request for a trial preference pursuant to section 36,
subdivision (e). Plaintiff may renew her motion and present further evidence of
health issues if appropriate.