  Case Number:  23STCV11136    Hearing Date:   September 19, 2024    Dept:  11 23STCV11136 (Doe)
 
Tentative Ruling Re: Demurrer and Motion to Strike Re: First Amended
Complaint
 
Date:                           9/19/24
Time:                          10:30
am
Moving Party:           Adobe, Inc. (“Defendant” or “Adobe”)
Opposing Party:        Jane Doe
(“Plaintiff”)
________________________________________________________________________
 
TENTATIVE RULING


Demurrer
 
First cause of action (California Invasion of Privacy Act
(“CIPA”)) – overruled.
 
Fifth cause of action (Unfair Competition Law (“UCL”) – sustained
with leave to amend as to standing and overruled as to the unfair prong,
restitution, and disgorgement.
 
Motion to Strike
 
Third cause of action (violation of the right of privacy
– California Constitution) – granted
as restitution and disgorgement.
 
Fourth cause of action (invasion of privacy/intrusion
upon seclusion) – denied as to restitution and disgorgement.
 
Punitive damages – granted.
 

BACKGROUND
 
On March 18, 2024, the Court heard Adobe’s demurrer and motion to
strike.  The Court sustained the demurrer
in part with leave to amend and overruled it in part and granted the motion to
strike with leave to amend. 
 
On April 17, 2024, Plaintiff filed her amended complaint, which alleges:
 
1. Patients
rightfully expect that their healthcare concerns and choices will be private.
And the law protects the privacy of healthcare information. This case is about
a serious violation of that core privacy interest. 
 
2. Plaintiff, like
millions of other class members, obtained healthcare from Kaiser Permanente
(“Kaiser”). As for any medical provider, state and common law protect the
privacy of the healthcare information held by Kaiser and exchanged between
Plaintiff and Class Members, on the one hand, and Kaiser, on the other. 
 
3. One place that
legal protection is important is the Kaiser Website, which Kaiser Members use
to access their medical records, including prescriptions and immunizations,
research their medical conditions, find and communicate with doctors, and
undertake other interactions related to the provision of healthcare services. 
 
4. Unfortunately and
unlawfully, Defendant . . . repeatedly and systematically violated that
legally-protected privacy interest by extracting private health and personally
identifiable information from Kaiser Members’ communications with the Kaiser
Website. 
 
5. Through
Defendant’s code embedded on the Kaiser Website, Defendant has vacuumed up
information about Kaiser Members’ medical conditions, immunizations,
prescriptions, physician information, and other private data, including
healthcare search terms, videos watched, and links accessed. All of that
information is linked to particular patients because Defendant takes that data
together with unique identifiers that allow Defendant to identify the
corresponding Kaiser Member. 
 
6. Plaintiff and
Class Members did not consent to Defendant’s taking of this highly sensitive
and legally-protected medical and other information. Defendant’s conduct is
unlawful, and it must be stopped.
 
(First Amended Complaint (“FAC”), ¶¶ 1-6.)
 
Now, the Court
considers Adobe’s new demurrer and new motion to strike.
 
LAW
 
Demurrer
 
When considering demurrers,
courts read the allegations liberally and in context, and “treat the demurrer
as admitting all material facts properly pleaded, but not contentions,
deductions or conclusions of fact or law.” (Serrano v. Priest (1971) 5
Cal.3d 584, 591.)  “A demurrer
tests the pleadings alone and not the evidence or other extrinsic matters.
Therefore, it lies only where the defects appear on the face of the pleading or
are judicially noticed.”  (Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747.)  It is error “to sustain a demurrer without leave to amend if the
plaintiff shows there is a reasonable possibility any defect identified by the
defendant can be cured by amendment.”  (Aubry v.
Tri-City Hospital Dist. (1992) 2 Cal.4th 962, 967.)
 
Motion
to Strike
 
“Motions to strike can be used to reach defects
in or objections to pleadings that are not challengeable by demurrer.”  (Edmon & Karnow, Cal. Practice Guide:
Civ. Procedure Before Trial (The Rutter Group June 2023 Update) ¶ 7:156.)  “Complaints, cross-complaints, answers and
demurrers are all subject to a motion to strike [citation].”  (Ibid.)  “Moreover, a motion to strike can be used to
attack the entire pleading, or any part thereof – i.e., even single words or
phrases (unlike demurrers).”  (Ibid.)
 
The motion can be used to strike “any ‘irrelevant, false or improper matter inserted in any pleading’” or “any
pleading or part thereof ‘not drawn or
filed in conformity with the laws of this state, a court rule, or an order of the
court.’”  (Id. at ¶ 7:167, emphasis in
original.) 
 
DISCUSSION
 
Incorporation
 
The
Court incorporates the March 18, 2024 ruling on Defendant’s first demurrer and
motion to strike.
 
Demurrer
 
Defendant
demurs to the first (CIPA section 631) and fifth (UCL) causes of action.
 
CIPA
Section 631
 
“Section 631 has been interpreted by California
courts as containing three different clauses which cover ‘three distinct and
mutually independent patterns of conduct.’” 
(Valenzuela v. Nationwide Mutual Ins. Co. (C.D. Cal. Aug. 14,
2023) No. 2:22-cv-06177-MEMF-SK, 2023 WL 5266033, at *3.)  “The three patterns of conduct that Section
631 prohibits are: (1) ‘intentional wiretapping;’ (2) ‘attempting to learn
the contents or meaning of a communication in transit over a wire;’ and (3) ‘attempting
to use or communicate information obtained as a result of engaging in either of
the previous two activities.’” 
(Ibid.)  “In addition to these
three clauses, Section 631 contains an aiding provision which imposes liability
on anyone who ‘aids, agrees with, employs, or conspires with any person or
persons’ in violating the three clauses described above.”  (Ibid.)
 
Last time, the Court recognized that case law is split as to
the meaning of clause (2).  Defendant
asked the Court to follow a line of cases led by Graham v. Noom (N.D.
Cal. 2021) 533 F.Supp.3d 823, and Plaintiff asked the Court to follow a line of
cases led by Javier v. Assurance IZ, LLC (N.D. Cal. 2023) 649 F.Supp.3d
891.  The Court analyzed the statutory
language and found Javier “more compatible with the plain
language.”  (3/18/24 Ruling Re: Demurrer
and Motion to Strike, p. 6.)
 
“Nevertheless,” the Court sustained the demurrer with leave
to amend because “Plaintiff fail[ed] to highlight a paragraph . . . that
allege[d] that Defendant had the capability to use Plaintiff’s personal
information for another purpose.” 
(Ibid.)
 
The Court turns to the FAC. 
The FAC alleges:
 
. . . through its
[software development kit (“SDK”)] embedded on the Kaiser Website, and while
Plaintiff and Class Members are communicating with Kaiser through the Kaiser
Website, Adobe unlawfully intercepts, collects, uses, and discloses to third
parties Plaintiff and Class Members’ Private Data, including PHI and PII, and
transmits this Private Data to Adobe’s servers. Adobe subsequently uses this
Private Data on its servers to create and/or modify profiles of Kaiser Members
that Kaiser uses in exchange for fees paid to Adobe. Given Adobe’s total
control of the Private Data resting on its own servers—and its ability to
analyze, process, and repackage Kaiser users’ data—Adobe is plainly capable of
transmitting this data to third parties other than Kaiser for Adobe’s own
purposes.
 
(FAC, ¶ 32, emphasis added.)  The emphasized wording clearly states that
Defendant has the capability to use Plaintiff’s data for its own purposes.
 
Defendant makes two
arguments.  One, Defendant reasserts that
the Court should follow Graham instead of Javier.  Two, Defendant contends the emphasized
wording is speculative and conclusory. 
(See Demurrer, pp. 4-5.)
 
The first argument is
unavailing.  The analysis supporting the
Court’s decision to follow Javier stands (Defendant offers nothing new
to change the Court’s mind).
 
The Court also rejects the second
argument.  In addition to paragraph 32,
the FAC states:
 
46. The Adobe
Trackers also collect and send to Adobe identifying information about a user’s
web browser, which they collectively term “User-Agent” (“User Agent Data”). 
 
47. Kaiser Website
users’ unique Demdex IDs are tied to the user’s activity across different
websites that use the Adobe Experience Cloud suite of products. This permits
Adobe to track Kaiser users’ browsing activity across unrelated websites. More
importantly, as part of the services Adobe provides to its clients through the
Adobe Experience Cloud, Adobe incorporates the personal data it obtains from
Kaiser Website users across these websites—including the Kaiser Website—to
serve its customers using a comprehensive profile of the Kaiser user (which
profile includes the user’s Private Data) to enrich the customers’ marketing
analytics. 
 
48. Further, when a
user visits the Kaiser Website, the Adobe SDK downloads a script onto the
user’s browser which, when executed, sends the Kaiser Website users’ unique
Demdex ID to a server operated by Everest Technologies. Once Everest
Technologies receives the users’ Demdex ID, it sets an Everest Technologies
cookie on the user’s browser. 
 
49. Adobe uses
Everest Technologies to perform real-time advertising bidding to enhance
advertising display campaigns for its Adobe Experience Cloud customers. Through
use of Kaiser Website users’ unique Demdex ID that is sent to Everest
Technologies when a user visits the Kaiser Website, Adobe uses the personal
data that Everest Technology collects from the Kaiser Website users’ activity
on the Kaiser Website to provide advertising services for its Adobe Experience
Cloud customers. Through this process, Adobe Private Data from Kaiser Website
users is disclosed to third parties. 
 
50. Additionally,
the fact that Everest Technologies—which is designed to promote third party
advertising campaigns—obtains Kaiser Website users’ unique Demdex ID when they
visit the Kaiser website means that Adobe has the capability to
use the Kaiser users’ data for its own purposes, including but not limited to
enhancing advertising display campaigns for its third party customers. 
 
51. Further, a
Quantum Metric SDK installed on the Kaiser Website intercepts the same type of
data as the Adobe Trackers do (as further detailed below). The Adobe Trackers
collect a Kaiser Website user’s KPAAMID and GUID identifiers. The values of
those identifiers are the same as those collected by Quantum Metric,
respectively. Each of the KPAAMID and GUID is a numeric string. Per Adobe, the
Adobe Experience platform contains a “Quantum Metric extension” that
“facilitates codeless deployment of Quantum Metric’s data collection
capabilities,” and “offers the ability to capture data elements containing
useful information from the Quantum Metric API.” Pursuant to the integration
between Adobe and Quantum Metric (a third party), Adobe Analytics transmits the
browsing data it collects to Quantum Metric so the Quantum Metric platform can,
in turn, use this data to enrich the analytics it provides to its customers.
Given that Adobe collects Kaiser Website users’ KPAAMID and GUID identifiers,
and these are the same identifiers collected by Quantum Metric, Adobe transmits
Kaiser Website users’ browsing data to Quantum Metric pursuant to the
advertised integration between the two companies. Obviously, the fact that
Adobe Analytics can transmit browsing data to Quantum Metric
means that Adobe has the capability to transmit browsing data
from Kaiser Website users to Quantum Metric.
 
(FAC, ¶¶ 46-51, emphasis in
original, footnote omitted.)  These
allegations must be accepted as true at the demurrer stage.  Read together, they suffice to allege
capability and to satisfy the Javier standard.[1]
 
Defendant claims the allegations
only show a capability to collect information for Kaiser’s benefit, which is
inadequate.  (See, e.g., Reply, pp. 2, 4
[quoting Yockey v. Salesforce, Inc. (N.D. Cal. 2023) 688 F.Supp.3d 962,
973, contending Plaintiff fails to state a claim because the allegations “do
not support a reasonable inference that [Defendant] has the capability to use
these communications for any purpose other than furnishing them to Kaiser”].) 
 
The Court disagrees.  Paragraph 47 alleges that, “as part of the
services Adobe provides to its clients through the Adobe Experience
Cloud, Adobe incorporates the personal data it obtains from Kaiser Website
users across these websites—including the Kaiser Website—to serve its
customers using a comprehensive profile of the Kaiser user (which profile
includes the user’s Private Data) to enrich the customers’ marketing
analytics.”  (FAC, ¶ 47, emphasis
added.)  The allegation conveys that
Defendant is capable of providing – and does provide – information about Kaiser
uses to Adobe’s other clients and customers.
 
The demurrer is overruled.
 
UCL
 
“[T]he
UCL permits a cause of action to be brought if a practice violates some other
law.  In effect, the ‘unlawful’ prong of
§ 17200 makes a violation of the underlying law a per se violation of §
17200.”  (Stern,
supra, at ¶ 3:53.)  “Virtually any
law or regulation — federal or state, statutory or common law — can serve as
predicate for a § 17200 ‘unlawful’ violation.  Thus, if a ‘business practice’ violates any
law — literally — it also violates § 17200 and may be redressed under that
section. [Citation.] As the California Supreme Court has said, § 17200 ‘borrows’
violations of other laws and treats them as unlawful practices independently
actionable under § 17200.”  (Id. at ¶
3:56.)
 
“The
second ‘wrong’ proscribed by § 17200 is ‘unfair’ business practices.  Because § 17200's definition of the five
proscribed ‘wrongs’ is set forth in the disjunctive, a business practice can be
‘unfair’ — and violative of § 17200 — even if it is not ‘deceptive’ and even if
it is ‘lawful.’”  (Id. at ¶ 3:112.)  “The ‘unfair’ standard is intentionally
broad, allowing courts maximum discretion to prohibit new schemes to
defraud.”  (Id. at ¶ 3:113.)
 
“The third type of conduct proscribed by § 17200 is
‘fraudulent’ business practices.”  (Id.
at ¶ 3:153.)  “A business practice is ‘fraudulent’
within the meaning of § 17200 if ‘members of the public are likely to be
deceived.’”  (Id. at ¶ 3:154.)  “An advertisement's potentially deceptive
effect is measured by the audience to which it is addressed.  Under the UCL and False Advertising statute,
this will usually be the ‘reasonable person’ standard.”  (Ibid.)
 
Proposition
64 limits “private standing . . . to any ‘person who has suffered injury in
fact and has lost money or property’ as a result of unfair competition
[citations].”  (Kwikset Corp. v.
Superior Court (2011) 51 Cal.4th 310 320-321.)  “The intent of
this change was to confine standing to those actually injured by a defendant's
business practices and to curtail the prior practice of filing suits on behalf
of clients who have not used the defendant's product or service, viewed the
defendant's advertising, or had any other business dealing with the defendant.
. . .”  (Id. at 321, internal quotation
marks omitted.)
 
Standing
 
The Court sustained Defendant’s first demurrer with leave to
amend to give Plaintiff a chance to allege standing under Moore v.
Centrelake Medical Group, Inc. (2002) 83 Cal.App.5th 515.  (See 3/18/24 Ruling Re: Demurrer and Motion
to Strike, pp. 9-10.)
 
Plaintiff contends the FAC alleges two standing
theories.  The first is a lost-value
theory (see Opposition, p. 9), and the second is a benefit-of-the-bargain
theory.  (See id. at p. 10.)
 
For lost value, Plaintiff cites paragraphs 77 through 90,
104, and 185.  (See Opposition, p.
9.)  She claims the allegations show “the
existence of a market for her data[,]” “that her data is property,” and that
“the value of” her data” “has been diminished by Adobe’s conduct.”  (Ibid.)  

 
The Court disagrees.  Moore
states:
 
Appellants properly pled only that their
PII was stolen and disseminated, and that a market for it existed. They did
not allege they ever attempted or intended to participate in this market, or
otherwise to derive economic value from their PII. Nor did they allege that
any prospective purchaser of their PII might learn that their PII had been
stolen in this data breach and, as a result, refuse to enter into a transaction
with them, or insist on less favorable terms. In the absence of any such allegation,
appellants failed to adequately plead that they lost money or property in the
form of the value of their PII. 
 
(Moore, supra, 83
Cal.App.5th at 538, emphasis added.) 
Undisputedly, Plaintiff fails to allege that she “ever attempted or
intended to participate” in the purported market for her data or that she
“otherwise derive[d] economic value from [her] PII.”  (Ibid.; see also Demurrer, p. 9.)  Bottom line, the lost-value allegations do
not comply with Moore.
 
Plaintiff claims “Moore
misapprehends the authorities it relies on and cannot be read to impose market
participation as a pleading requirement.” 
(Opposition, p. 9, underling of case name added; see also id. at p. 10.)
 
The Court disagrees.  “Moore is a published Second District
opinion[.]”  (3/18/24 Ruling Re: Demurrer
and Motion to Strike, p. 10.)  The
opinion says what it says, and the Court intends to follow it.  Since Plaintiff fails to allege each Moore
component, the lost-value theory fails.[2]
 
For benefit of the bargain,
Plaintiff asserts that “she expected her private data to remain private and
secure, and that she would have paid less for her healthcare had she known that
Adobe would intercept, collect, and use her private data.”  (Opposition, p. 10 [citing paragraphs 92, 95,
102, 139 through 140, 148, 156, 169, and 185].)
 
Defendant contends the
allegations “fail[] for the simple reason that Plaintiff never alleges she
entered into any bargain with Adobe (or interacted with Adobe at all).”  (Reply, p. 6.)
 
“[A] ‘benefit of the bargain’ approach to establishing UCL
standing is rooted in the California Supreme Court’s recognition that a
plaintiff may demonstrate economic injury from unfair competition by
establishing he or she ‘surrender[ed] in a transaction more, or acquire[d] in a
transaction less, than he or she otherwise would have.’”  (Moore, supra, 83 Cal.App.5th
at 527.)  
 
In Moore, the plaintiffs alleged that “they relied on
Centrelake’s false representations and promises concerning data security in
entering contracts with Centrelake and accepting its pricing terms, paying
more than they would have had they known the truth that Centrelake had not
implemented and would not maintain adequate data security practices.”  (Ibid., emphasis added.)  
 
In light of these rules, the
Court believes the demurrer should be sustained.  The
FAC indicates that Plaintiff bargained with Kaiser, not with Adobe.  (See FAC, ¶¶ 92, 95, 102, 139-140,
148, 156, 169, 185.)  Plaintiff does not
cite a case upholding benefit-of-the-bargain allegations in this context.  (See Reply, pp. 6-8.)
 
The demurrer is sustained with
leave to amend.  The Court believes Plaintiff
should get one more opportunity to allege the lost-value theory and/or the
benefit-of-the-bargain theory.
 
Unfair Prong
 
At the hearing on the first
demurrer, the Court found that Plaintiff stated an unlawful-prong claim and
gave her the option of amending to “add detail” to her unfair-prong claim.  (3/18/24 Ruling Re: Demurrer and Motion to
Strike, p. 11.)  
 
The demurrer is overruled.  The UCL is written in the conjunctive.  If a plaintiff pleads a claim under one of
the prongs, it is unnecessary to analyze the other prongs, and it is
appropriate to overrule the demurrer. 
(See, e.g., Morgan v. AT&T Wireless Services, Inc. (2009) 177
Cal.App.4th 1235, 1255 [stating: “In this case, we need not, and do not, decide whether the
conduct alleged meets any of the definitions of ‘unfair’ (or whether it meets
the definition of ‘unlawful’) because we find that plaintiffs have alleged a
fraudulent business practice under the UCL”]; see also, e.g., Somerville v.
Stryker Orthopaedics (N.D. Cal., Sept. 4, 2009 No. C 08-02443 JSW) 2009 WL
2901591, at *3 [stating: “Therefore, regardless of the other contentions of
unfair and fraudulent conduct, because the requirement is conjunctive, the
Court need not reach the other elements and finds Plaintiff has stated a cause
of action under Section 17200”].)  Again,
Plaintiff already stated an unlawful-prong claim.  Moreover, Plaintiff did not move to strike the new unfair allegations (see
Notice, p. 2), so this portion of the demurrer constitutes an improper partial
demurrer.
 
Restitution and Disgorgement
 
The Court granted Plaintiff leave to amend to allege “a
‘diminution’ in the value of . . . her personal information.”  (3/18/24 Ruling Re: Demurrer and Motion to
Strike, p. 11 [quoting Brown v. Google LLC (N.D. Cal., Dec. 12, 2021 No.
20-CV-03664-LHK) 2021 WL 6064009].)
 
The demurrer is overruled. 
Plaintiff’s new allegations do not quantify the alleged diminution, but
they do state that a diminution occurred. 
(See FAC, ¶ 185.)  Admittedly, the
statement is conclusive; however, quantification is, ultimately, a factual
issue that necessitates discovery.
 
Motion to Strike
 
Defendant moves to strike
the requests for restitution, disgorgement, and punitive damages.
 
Restitution
and Disgorgement
 
The
restitution and disgorgement requests pertain to the third (violation of the
right of privacy – California Constitution) and fourth (invasion of
privacy/intrusion upon seclusion) causes of action.
 
Defendant
contends “Plaintiff cannot seek restitution in connection with the third cause
of action . . . because ‘the state constitutional privacy provision . . .
serves as the basis for injunctive relief,’ not restitution or disgorgement
(i.e., the claim is not monetarily compensable).”  (Motion, p. 12.)
 
On
one hand, Defendant’s case – Hernandez v. Hillsides (2009) 47 Cal.4th
272 – does not address restitution and disgorgement and merely states that “it
is an open question whether the state constitutional privacy
provision, which is otherwise self-executing and serves as the basis for
injunctive relief, can also provide direct and sole support for a damages
claim[.]”  (Hernandez, supra,
47 Cal.4th at 286, emphasis added.)
 
On the other hand, Plaintiff’s case – Allen v. County of
Sonoma (N.D. Cal., Aug. 18, 2017 No. 17-cv-00448-YGR) 2017 WL 3593340 –
seems to undermine Plaintiff’s position. 
Allen states that “the ‘privacy provision affords only a right to
injunctive relief[.]”  (Allen,
supra, 2017 WL 3593340, at *5.) 
Restitution and disgorgement are not mentioned.  (See ibid.)
 
On balance, the Court agrees with Defendant because Plaintiff
fails to cite authority permitting monetary relief, and the Court is unaware of
a case supporting Plaintiff’s requests. 
 
Next, Defendant claims “Plaintiff cannot seek equitable
relief in connection with the fourth cause of action . . . because Plaintiff’s
remedies at law are adequate relief.” 
(Motion, pp. 12-13.)
 
The motion is denied.  This is the pleading stage.  The Court agrees with Plaintiff that she
should receive latitude to request alternative and inconsistent remedies.  (See Opposition, p. 14.)
 
Finally, Defendant contends the
motion should be granted as to both causes of action because “there is no
relationship between Plaintiff and Adobe[,]” and “Plaintiff fails to plead any
connection between the money Adobe made by selling its services to Kaiser and
Plaintiff.”  (Motion, p. 13; see also
Reply, p. 10.)
 
In response, Plaintiff cites
paragraphs 146 and 167, asserting that “Defendant benefitted from Plaintiff’s
Private Data” by “unlawfully extract[ing] and monetize[ing] her PII and PHI
through use of that data to develop and modify Kaiser member profiles and
provide advertising services[.]” 
(Opposition, p. 15.)
 
At this stage, the Court agrees
with Plaintiff.  Paragraph 146 provides:
 
Plaintiff and Class
Members seek restitution based on Defendant’s unjust enrichment because they
have conferred substantial benefits on Defendant by virtue of their use of the
Kaiser Website. These benefits include Defendant’s interception, collection, use
and disclosure of Plaintiff’s and Class Members’ Private Data, including PHI
and PII, and the revenues and profits resulting therefrom – e.g., Adobe’s use
of the Private Data, including PHI and PII, on its servers to create and/or
modify profiles of Kaiser Members that Kaiser uses in exchange for fees paid to
Adobe; Adobe’s use and disclosure of the Private Data to develop profiles of
Kaiser Members for use by other website owners that utilize the Adobe
Experience Cloud suite of products; and Adobe’s use and disclosure of the
Private Data in Everest Technology to provide advertising services for its
Adobe Experience Cloud customers.
 
(FAC, ¶ 146, emphasis
added.)  Paragraph 167 is identical.  (See id. at ¶ 167.)  While it is true that Plaintiff does not
allege that she paid money to Defendant, she does allege that Defendant
obtained “revenues and profits” from her data. 
(Id. at ¶¶ 146, 167.)  “The object
of restitution is to restore the status quo by returning to the plaintiff funds
in which he or she has an ownership interest.” 
(Korea Supply Co. v. Lockheed Martin Corp. (2003) 29 Cal.4th
1134, 1149.)  It is a question of fact
whether Plaintiff possesses an ownership interest in those “revenues and
profits” since they allegedly derived from Defendant’s allegedly unlawful use
of her information.  
 
Punitive
Damages
 
The
motion is granted.  Plaintiff is no
longer seeking punitive damages and agrees that the allegations should be
stricken.  (See Opposition, p. 15.) 
 
 
 
 


