 Case Number:  24CHCV01830    Hearing Date:   September 30, 2024    Dept:  F51  SEPTEMBER 26,  2024    DEMURRER  Los Angeles Superior Court Case # 24CHCV01830    Demurrer filed: 4/29/24   MOVING PARTY: Defendants Matthew Evans, aka Matt  Evans; AV Home Rescue, LLC; Hortencia Janet Ponce; Wanda Marie Williams; and Saray  J. Valenzuela Naranjo (collectively, “Moving Defendants”) RESPONDING PARTY: Plaintiffs Mark Gomez; and Juanita  Gomez (collectively, “Plaintiffs”)  NOTICE: OK    RELIEF REQUESTED: Moving Defendants demur against the first through fifth causes of action in  Plaintiffs’ first amended complaint (“FAC”).   TENTATIVE RULING: The demurrer is overruled as to  Plaintiffs’ first, fourth, and fifth causes of action, and sustained against  Plaintiffs’ second cause of action with 30 days leave to amend.  The demurrer is sustained as to Plaintiff’s  third cause of action without leave to amend.      BACKGROUND    This is a  wrongful foreclosure action wherein Plaintiffs own and reside at certain real  property located at 27406 Onlee Avenue, Saugus, California (the “Subject  Property”). (FAC ¶ 15.) Plaintiffs allege that their home was at risk of  foreclosure, therefore on 4/17/24, they contacted Moving Defendants, who  advertised that their company helps save properties from foreclosure. (Id. at  ¶ 22.) At Moving Defendants’ direction, on 4/22/24, Plaintiffs executed a Grant  Deed transferring ownership of the Subject Property to Moving Defendants, but  the foreclosure proceedings were not remedied or otherwise postponed. (Id. at  ¶¶ 24–35.)    On 5/10/24,  Plaintiffs filed their complaint against two named defendants, alleging a sole  cause of action for Fraud. On 7/10/24, Plaintiffs filed their FAC against eight  named defendants, alleging the following causes of action: (1) Fraud –  Intentional Misrepresentation; (2) Fraud – Concealment; (3) Quiet Title; (4)  Cancellation of Written Instrument; and (5) Injunctive Relief.[1]   On 8/29/24, Moving Defendants filed  the instant demurrer. On 9/17/24, Plaintiffs filed their opposition thereto. No  reply has been filed to date.   ANALYSIS   As a general matter, a party may respond to a pleading  against it by demurrer on the basis of any single or combination of eight  enumerated grounds, including that “the pleading does not state facts  sufficient to constitute a cause of action.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subd.  (e).) In a demurrer proceeding, the defects must be apparent on the face of the  pleading or via proper judicial notice.¿(Donabedian v. Mercury Ins. Co.  (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994.)   “A demurrer tests the pleading alone, and not the evidence  or facts alleged.” (E-Fab, Inc. v. Accountants, Inc. Servs. (2007) 153  Cal.App.4th 1308, 1315.) As such, the court assumes the truth of the  complaint’s properly pleaded or implied factual allegations. (Ibid.) The  only issue a demurrer is concerned with is whether the complaint, as it stands,  states a cause of action. (Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 740,  747.)   Here, Moving  Defendants demur to the first through fifth causes of action in Plaintiffs’ FAC  on the basis that Plaintiffs fail¿to allege facts sufficient to state those  causes of action.   A.    Meet-and-Confer   Before filing its demurrer, “the demurring party shall meet  and confer in person or by telephone with the party who filed the pleading that  is subject to demurrer for the purpose of determining whether an agreement can  be reached that would resolve the objections to be raised in the demurrer.”  (Code Civ. Proc. § 430.41, subd. (a).) The demurring party must file and  serve a meet and confer declaration stating either: “(A) The means by which the  demurring party met and conferred with the party who filed the pleading subject  to demurrer, and that the parties did not reach an agreement resolving the  objections raised in the demurrer;” or “(B) That the party who filed the  pleading subject to demurrer failed to respond to the meet and confer request  of the demurring party or otherwise failed to meet and confer in good faith.” (Id.  at subd. (a)(3).)   Here, Moving Defendants’ counsel declares that “over the  past week, I have attempted to email and call defendants to schedule a meet and  confer. I have not received a response to the request for a meet and confer –  only a response to an early settlement offer.” (Decl. of Mario Iskander, ¶ 3.) Plaintiffs’  counsel declares in opposition that she received no meet and confer  communications from Moving Defendants’ counsel. (Decl. of Kimberly R.  Rose-McCaslin ¶¶ 3–6.) Accordingly, the Court finds that Moving Defendants’  counsel has not made a good faith attempt to meet and confer regarding the  issues raised in the instant demurrer. Nevertheless, “a determination by the  court that the meet and confer process was insufficient shall not be grounds to  overrule or sustain a demurrer.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 430.41, subd. (a)(4).)   B.      Fraud   “One who  willfully deceives another with intent to induce him to alter his position to  his injury or risk, is liable for any damage which he thereby suffers.” (Civ.  Code § 1709.) Fairness requires that allegations of fraud be pled “with  particularity” so that the court can weed out nonmeritorious actions before a  defendant is required to answer. (Small v. Fritz Companies, Inc. (2003)  30 Cal.4th 167, 184.) The particularity requirement necessitates pleading facts  that “show how, when, where, to whom, and by what means the representations  were tendered.” (Lazar v. Superior Court (1996) 12 Cal.4th 631, 645.)   1.       Intentional Misrepresentation   Plaintiffs’  first cause of action alleges Fraud – Intentional Misrepresentation against  Moving Defendants. The elements that must be pleaded in a cause of action for  fraud are: (1) a misrepresentation (false representation, concealment or  nondisclosure); (2) knowledge of its falsity (or “scienter”); (3) intent to  defraud (i.e., to induce reliance); (4) justifiable reliance; and (5) resulting  damage. (Philipson & Simon v. Gulsvig (2007) 154 Cal.App.4th 347,  363.)   Here,  Plaintiffs allege that beginning on 4/17/24, Moving Defendants misrepresented  that the execution of the subject Grant Deed transferring Plaintiffs’ interest  in the Subject Property to Moving Defendants would remedy the foreclosure  proceedings against Plaintiffs. (FAC ¶¶ 22–25.) Specifically, Plaintiffs allege  that Moving Defendants “told Plaintiffs that the Grant Deed would put the LLC  on title to the property with the Plaintiffs but that the Grant Deed would not  be recorded unless Plaintiffs defaulted on the Promissory Note.” (Id. at  ¶ 25.) Furthermore, “Defendants at all times promised that Plaintiffs would  remain the true legal owners of said Property and that the Grant Deed was only  to add the LLC to title. However, at no time relevant hereto did Defendants  intend to honor this promise that the Property would remain in the Plaintiffs’  ownership.” (Id. at ¶ 44.) Plaintiffs further allege that Moving  Defendants knew their misrepresentations were false and intended them to divest  Plaintiffs of their title to the Subject Property. (Id. at ¶¶ 46–47.) “Plaintiffs,  in fear and desperation regarding the imminent loss of their home, justifiably  relied upon the Defendants’ misrepresentations. Had Plaintiffs known the true  facts, Plaintiffs would not have executed the Grant Deed.” (Id. at ¶  50.)   Moving  Defendants argue that Plaintiffs fail to allege their first cause of action  with the requisite specificity because “all defendants are lumped together as  if having jointly made the same statements in harmony but without the specific  time, means of transmission, location and persons to whom they spoke revealed.  Absent a more specific details, the specificity requirement for fraud and  misrepresentation causes of action fail in the First Cause of Action.” (Dem. 7:11–14.)   Plaintiffs  argue in opposition that the FAC “properly demonstrates that these parties  participated in the fraud given the very detailed alter ego and conspiracy  allegations.” (Pls.’ Opp. 2:23–25, citing FAC ¶¶ 16–20, 36–41.) The Court  agrees, and further notes that Plaintiffs allege their communications with the  individual defendants with the requisite specificity. (FAC ¶¶ 25, 30–32.) Based  on the foregoing, the Court finds that Plaintiffs have alleged facts sufficient  to constitute a cause of action for Fraud – Intentional Misrepresentation.  Accordingly, the demurrer is overruled as to Plaintiffs’ first cause of action. // // // 2.       Concealment   Plaintiffs’  second cause of action alleges Fraud – Concealment against Moving Defendants. “The  required elements for fraudulent concealment are (1) concealment or suppression  of a material fact; (2) by a defendant with a duty to disclose the fact to the  plaintiff; (3) the defendant intended to defraud the plaintiff by intentionally  concealing or suppressing the fact; (4) the plaintiff was unaware of the fact  and would not have acted as he or she did if he or she had known of the  concealed or suppressed fact; and (5) plaintiff sustained damage as a result of  the concealment or suppression of the fact.” (Hambrick v. Healthcare  Partners Medical Group, Inc. (2015) 238 Cal.App.4th 124, 162.)   Here,  Plaintiffs allege that “on or about April 17, 2024, Defendants knew of and  failed to disclose to Plaintiffs, the true nature of the Grant Deed.” (FAC ¶  54.) Moving Defendants argue that Plaintiffs fail to allege that Moving  Defendants owed to them a duty to disclose. (Dem. 7:28–8:1.) The Court agrees,  and notes that Plaintiffs do not address this issue in opposition.   Based on  the foregoing, the Court finds that Plaintiffs have not alleged facts  sufficient to constitute a cause of action for Fraud – Concealment.  Accordingly, the demurrer is sustained as to Plaintiffs’ second cause of  action.   C.     Conversion   Plaintiffs’  third cause of action alleges Conversion against Moving Defendants. “Conversion  is generally described as the wrongful exercise of dominion over the personal  property of another.” (Fremont Indemnity Co. v. Fremont General Corp.  (2007) 148 Cal.App.4th 97, 119.) “The elements of a conversion claim are: (1)  the plaintiff’s ownership or right to possession of the property; (2) the  defendant’s conversion by a wrongful act or disposition of property rights; and  (3) damages.” (Lee v. Hanley (2015) 61 Cal.4th 1225, 1240.) “The tort of  conversion applies to personal property, not real property.” (Salma v. Capon  (2008) 161 Cal.App.4th 1275, 1295.)   Here,  Plaintiffs allege that “Defendants wrongfully converted Plaintiffs’ real  property for their own use and benefit by fraudulently obtaining the Grant Deed  without an exchange of anything of value.” (FAC ¶ 57.) The Court reiterates  that a cause of action for conversion does not apply to real property. (Salma, 161 Cal.App.4th at 1295.) Based on the foregoing, the Court finds that  Plaintiffs have not alleged facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action  for Conversion. Accordingly, the demurrer is sustained as to Plaintiffs’ third  cause of action without leave to amend.   D.     Quiet Title   Plaintiffs’  fourth cause of action alleges Quiet Title against Moving Defendants. An action  for quiet title seeks “to establish title against adverse claims to real or  personal property or any interest therein.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 760.020, subd.  (a).) In an action for quiet title, Plaintiff must plead (1) “[a] description  of the property that is the subject of the action,” specifically the location  of tangible personal property and the legal description and street address or  common designation of real property, (2) “[t]he title of the plaintiff as to  which a determination under this chapter is sought and the basis of the title,”  (3) “[t]he adverse claims to the title of the plaintiff against which a  determination is sought,” (4) “[t]he date as of which the determination is  sought,” and (5) “[a] prayer for the determination of the title of the  plaintiff against the adverse claims.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 761.020.)   Here,  Plaintiffs allege that “The real property that is the subject of this action  (hereafter “Property”) is located in Los Angeles County, California, is  commonly known as 27406 Onlee Avenue, Saugus, California and is legally  described as follows: LOT 87 OF TRACT 29914, IN THE CITY OF SANTA CLARITA  COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES, CALIFORNIA AS PER MAP RECORDED IN BOOK 792, PAGE(S) 41  TO 46, INCLUSIVE OF MAPS IN THE OFFICE OF THE COUNTY RECORDER OF SAID COUNTY.  APN 2807-026-010.” (FAC ¶ 15.) “The LLC claims that it has an interest in the  Property through the Grant Deed. Plaintiffs have demanded that the LLC reconvey  the Property to Plaintiffs, but Defendants have refused and continue to refuse  to do so.” (Id. at ¶ 61.) “Plaintiffs desire a judicial determination  that Defendants have no superior right of title, interest or security in the  subject Property and a declaration that Defendants have a legal obligation to  transfer back to Plaintiffs their ownership interest in the Property. Plaintiff  further desires a judicial determination that the subject Grant Deed was and is  of no legal effect and to quiet title regarding the same due to the wrongful,  fraudulent actions of Defendants.” (Id. at ¶ 64.)   Moving  Defendants argue that “the 1AC does not contain or legal description of the  subject property nor does it allege the physical address of the subject property.”  (Dem. 8:22–23.) However, as Plaintiffs observe, “the legal description of the  property as well as the address is clearly set forth in paragraph 15 of the  FAC.” (Pls.’ Opp. 3:16–17.) Based on the foregoing, the Court finds that  Plaintiffs have alleged facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action for  Quiet Title. Accordingly, the demurrer is overruled as to Plaintiffs’ fourth  cause of action.   E.      Cancellation of Written Instrument   Plaintiffs’  fifth cause of action alleges Cancellation of Written Instrument against Moving  Defendants. A “written instrument, in respect to which there is a reasonable  apprehension that if left outstanding it may cause serious injury to a person  against whom it is void or voidable, may, upon his application, be so adjudged,  and ordered to be delivered up or canceled.” (Civ. Code § 3412.)¿“To prevail on  a claim to cancel an instrument, a plaintiff must prove (1) the instrument is  void or voidable due to, for example, fraud, and (2) there is a reasonable  apprehension of serious injury including pecuniary loss or the prejudicial  alternation of one’s position.” (Weeden v. Hoffman (2021) 70 Cal.App.5th  269, 294.)   Here,  Plaintiffs allege that “because of the intentional misrepresentations by  Defendants, the Grant Deed or any other instrument created and executed  thereafter in favor of Defendants in connection with the Property is null and  void ab initio.” (FAC ¶ 69.) “The subject Grant Deed will cause serious injury  if left outstanding.” (Id. at ¶ 71.)   As  Plaintiffs observe in opposition, Moving Defendants’ “argument in support of  the Demurrer to the Fifth Cause of Action speaks entirely to another pleading.”  (Pls.’ Opp. 3:23–24.) Based on the foregoing, the Court finds that Plaintiffs  have alleged facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action for Cancellation  of Written Instrument. Accordingly, the demurrer is overruled as to Plaintiffs’  fifth cause of action.   F.      Leave to Amend   Where a  demurrer is sustained, leave to amend must be allowed where there is a  reasonable possibility of successful amendment. (Goodman v. Kennedy  (1976) 18 Cal.3d 335, 348.) The burden is on the plaintiff to show the court  that a pleading can be amended successfully. (Id.; Lewis v. YouTube,  LLC (2015) 244 Cal.App.4th 118, 226.) However, “[i]f there is any  reasonable possibility that the plaintiff can state a good cause of action, it  is error to sustain a demurrer without leave to amend.” (Youngman v. Nevada  Irrigation Dist. (1969) 70 Cal.2d 240, 245).¿    Here, the  Court notes that this is the first demurrer brought against Plaintiffs’  operative pleading. Accordingly, under the Court’s liberal policy of granting  leave to amend, the Court grants Plaintiffs 30 days leave to amend the  complaint to cure the defects set forth above.    CONCLUSION    The demurrer is overruled as to Plaintiffs’ first,  fourth, and fifth causes of action, and sustained against Plaintiffs’ second cause  of action with 30 days leave to amend.   The demurrer is sustained as to Plaintiff’s third cause of action  without leave to amend     