 Case Number:  24STCV09680    Hearing Date:   October 10, 2024    Dept:  49 KB Acquisitions, LLC v. Alysanne, LLC, et al.  (1) PLAINTIFF KB ACQUISITIONS, LLC’S MOTION FOR RIGHT TO ATTACH ORDER AND WRIT OF ATTACHMENT AGAINST DEFENDANT ALYSANNE, LLC(2) PLAINTIFF KB ACQUISITIONS, LLC’S MOTION FOR RIGHT TO ATTACH ORDER AND WRIT OF ATTACHMENT AGAINST DEFENDANT SNYDER VINE OWNER, LLC MOVING PARTY: Plaintiff KB Acquisitions, LLC RESPONDING PARTY(S): Defendants Alysanne, LLC, and Snyder Vine Owner, LLCSTATEMENT OF MATERIAL FACTS AND/OR PROCEEDINGS: Plaintiff KB Acquisitions contracted with Defendants Alysanne, LLC, and Snyder Vine Owner, LLC, to purchase a commercial office building. Around the time of the contemplated purchase, Skims Body, Inc., had signed a lease to occupy the premises. Plaintiff alleges it was a term of the agreement and necessary for financing from its lender that the premises be 70% occupied by Skims. Plaintiff alleges that it discovered that Skims had little, if any, activity at the premises, and therefore did not close the transaction. In response, Defendant Snyder Vine contended that Plaintiff defaulted under the Agreement and that Defendant was entitled to retain Plaintiff’s $5,000,000 deposit. Plaintiff now brings this action for (1) breach of contract and (2) violation of the UCL to recover a portion of its deposit on the failed transaction. Plaintiff now moves for right to attach orders and writs of attachment against each Defendant. Defendants opposed.At the initial hearing on 9/20/24, after hearing oral argument, in part, from counsel, the Court continued the hearing on these applications to 10/10/24, and allowed supplemental briefing based upon the initial tentative ruling.  This Court has now read and considered the supplemental briefing which was filed by the parties.TENTATIVE RULING (Revised):Plaintiff’s Motion for Right to Attach is GRANTED against each Defendant in the amount of $2.5 million.Plaintiff is ordered to file undertakings in the amount of $10,000.Plaintiff is ordered to give notice.DISCUSSION:Motion for Right to AttachA. Legal Standard Section 483.010 provides that “an attachment may be issued only in an action on a claim or claims for money, each of which is based upon a contract, express or implied, where the total amount of the claim or claims is a fixed or readily ascertainable amount not less than five hundred dollars ($500) exclusive of costs, interest, and attorney's fees.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 483.010, subd. (a).) “If the action is against a defendant who is a natural person, an attachment may be issued only on a claim which arises out of the conduct by the defendant of a trade, business, or profession.” (Id., subd. (c).)Under Code of Civil Procedure section 484.090(a), a court shall issue a right to attach order if it finds that: (1) The claim upon which the attachment is based is one upon which an attachment may be issued. (2) The plaintiff has established the probable validity of the claim upon which the attachment is based. (3) The attachment is not sought for a purpose other than the recovery on the claim upon which the attachment is based. (4) The amount to be secured by the attachment is greater than zero. The burden is on the moving party to establish these elements. (Loeb & Loeb v. Beverly Glen Music, Inc. (1985) 166 Cal.App.3d 1110, 1116.)  “A claim has ‘probable validity’ where it is more likely than not that the plaintiff will obtain a judgment against the defendant on that claim.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 481.190.) “In determining the probable validity of a claim where the defendant makes an appearance, the court must consider the relative merits of the positions of the respective parties and make a determination of the probable outcome of the litigation.”¿(Loeb & Loeb v. Beverly Glen Music, Inc. (1985) 166 Cal.App.3d 1110, 1120.)  The court does not determine whether the claim is actually valid; that determination will be made at trial and is not affected by the decision on the application for the order. (CCP §484.050(b).)B. Analysis Plaintiff moves for a writ of attachment against each Defendant. Because the issues and arguments raised for and against each writ of attachment are identical, the court addresses them together. 1. Allegations in the ComplaintPlaintiff alleges it entered into a written purchase and sale agreement (the “PSA”), effective February 7, 2023, to purchase a commercial office building at 1601 Vine Street, Los Angeles, CA, from Defendants. (Compl. ¶ 7.) Under the original PSA, Plaintiff made initial escrow deposits totaling $2.5 million. (Id.) Plaintiff alleges that “[b]ecause of the nature of the financing that [Plaintiff] was obtaining to complete the purchase of the Building, the status of the tenancy of the Building was extremely important to the transaction and the ability to close on the purchase.” (Id. ¶ 8.) As of January 23, 2023, Skims Body, Inc., had signed a lease to eventually occupy nearly 98% of the premises. (Id.)  Because of the “importance of the status of the Skims tenancy to the financing of the transaction and to Kingsbarn’s lender, the deal was structured so that there would be the equivalent of a $15,000,000 ‘holdback’ of the purchase price by the lender. Specifically, section 4.3.7 of the PSA provided that the Seller (Alysanne), or alternatively, the tenant, Skims, would provide Kingsbarn’s lender with a binding letter of credit for $15,000,000, which letter of credit would only be released by the lender ‘once Skims actively occupies at least seventy percent (70%) of the net rentable square footage of the Building ….” (Id. ¶ 9.) In the coming months, the parties executed four amendments to the PSA. (Id. ¶¶ 10, 11, 12, 15.) Under the Third Amendment, Plaintiff made a second additional deposit of $1,000,000 into escrow. (Id. ¶ 13.) In addition, Plaintiff exercised two options to extend the closing date—each of which required an additional $750,000 deposit in escrow toward the purchase price. (Id.) In total, Plaintiff deposited $5,000,000 toward the purchase price into escrow. (Id.) Section 3(b) of the Third Amendment delineates certain conditions under which Plaintiff would receive a refund of half of its $5,000,000 deposit. (Id. ¶ 14.) Particularly, Plaintiff alleges that it “was entitled to be refunded $2,500,000 of its $5,000,000 in total deposits if: (a) by December 28, 2023, Skims was not actively occupying at least seventy percent of the Premises under the Skims Lease (referred to as the “Skims Closing Occupancy”); (b) Kingsbarn’s lender required a new appraisal of the Building prior to closing, and such appraisal was obtained in the first quarter of 2024; (c) the lender appraisal showed a property value of less than 90% of the purchase price in the PSA, as amended; and (d) Kingsbarn notified the Seller that it was electing not to proceed with the purchase and sale transaction within five days of issuance of the lender appraisal.” (Id.) Plaintiff alleges that it “repeatedly asked” Defendants “for updates about the progress of Skims’ tenant improvement work and estimates as to when Skims would be moving its operations into the Premises and would begin conducting business from the Premises.” (Id. ¶ 16.) Then, “[o]n December 13, 2023, Kingsbarn was provided with a copy of a letter from Colin Bennett, General Counsel of Skims, addressed to two of the principals of Snyder Vine. The letter was sent from the address Skims was occupying and at which Skims was conducting its business operations at the time-- 3233 S. La Cienega Boulevard, in Los Angeles, California. Mr. Bennett’s letter tersely stated: ‘Please take notice that Tenant hereby certifies that, as of December 13, 2023, Tenant occupies the Premises.’” (Id. ¶ 17.)  Plaintiff alleges the letter “notably did not say that Skims, as the tenant, was actively occupying and conducting business from at least 70% of the demised Premises under the Skims Lease, which was the applicable standard for tenant occupancy contemplated and required by Section 3(b) of the Third Amendment.” (Id. ¶ 17.) Thereafter, a representative of Plaintiff visited the premises “to assess the actual physical status of Skims’ tenancy,” and discovered “absolutely no evidence of office workers or other Skims’ employees in the Building.” (Id. ¶ 18.) Plaintiff alleges it “was obvious from these observations that Skims was not actively occupying and conducting business operations from the Building, much less from 70% of the demised Premises. Thus, to the extent that Mr. Bennett’s December 13, 2023 letter was intended to certify that Skims was actively occupying 70% of the Premises as provided in section 3(b) of the Third Amendment, the letter was false or erroneous.” (Id. ¶ 18.)  “Consequently, on December 21, 2023, Ray Jones, General Counsel of Kingsbarn Realty Capital, sent a letter to Alysanne and Snyder Vine notifying them that Skims was not actively occupying 70% of the Premises, that the PSA, as amended, remained in effect, and that Kingsbarn retained the right to obtain a new appraisal of the Building in the first quarter of 2024 if required by its lender, as provided for in the Third Amendment.” (Id. ¶ 19.) In response, Snyder Vine “sent a letter to Ray Jones contending that Kingsbarn had failed to close the transaction by the closing date (which Schiller argued was December 28, 2023), that Kingsbarn had therefore defaulted under the PSA, and that Snyder Vine purportedly was entitled to retain the entire $5,000,000 deposit.” (Id. ¶ 20.)Because Plaintiff’s lender required a new appraisal of the Building in order to proceed with financing for a potential purchase of the Building, “[b]etween March 5, 2024 and March 19, 2024, Kingsbarn repeatedly attempted to schedule an on-site appraisal inspection through Snyder Vine’s broker.” (Id. ¶ 21.) Snyder Vine alleged “rebuffed” each attempt. (Id.) Plaintiff alleges Defendant “did this in order to conceal the fact that Skims still, by that date, was not actively occupying and conducting business operations from at least 70% of the Premises.” (Id.) Plaintiff alleges that on March 19, 2024, the appraiser for Plaintiff’s new lender issued an appraisal report for the Building determining that the fair market value of the property was $100,000,000. (Id. ¶ 22.) This was only 83.82% of the purchase price of $119,300,000 under the PSA, as amended. (Id.) Thus, on March 22, 2024, Plaintiff “provided written notice to Snyder Vine, Alysanne, and their counsel that, pursuant to Section 3(b) of the Third Amendment, Kingsbarn was electing not to proceed with Closing, that escrow should be cancelled, and that $2,500,000 of Kingsbarn’s deposit should be returned to Kingsbarn.” (Id.) Plaintiff alleges Defendants have “failed and refused to return to Kingsbarn any portion of the deposit made by Kingsbarn” despite Plaintiff’s repeated demands. (Id. ¶ 23.) Plaintiff therefore filed this action to pursue recovery of the $2,500,000 and its attorney’s fees and costs. (Id. ¶ 24.) 2. AnalysisAs a threshold matter, the claim upon which the attachment is based is one upon which an attachment may be issued. Contrary to Defendants’ arguments, there is nothing to suggest the purpose of the attachment is for something other than the recovery on the claim upon which the attachment is based. It appears undisputed that Defendants’ attempts to sell the property are ongoing. Thus, it is appropriate for Plaintiff to pursue the writ so that it can enforce a judgment against Defendant should Plaintiff prevail in this action. Also, the amount to be secured by the attachment is greater than zero.  Thus, the main issue is whether Plaintiff has established the probable validity of the claim upon which the attachment is based. To prevail on a breach of contract claim, Plaintiff must establish “(1) the existence of the contract, (2) plaintiff's performance or excuse for nonperformance, (3) defendant's breach, and (4) the resulting damages to the plaintiff.” (D'Arrigo Bros. of California v. United Farmworkers of Am. (2014) 224 Cal. App. 4th 790, 800.)As noted, this lawsuit arises out of a prospective purchase and sale transaction under which Kingsbarn was to purchase the Building from Snyder and Alysanne. (Jones Decl. ¶ 2.) An “important element of the deal” was the status of the tenancy of Skims, which had signed a lease to rent 7 of the 8 floors of the Building and was to eventually occupy nearly 98% of the Building (the “Premises”). (Id. ¶ 4.) Thus, the PSA, as amended by the Third Amendment, provided for a “holdback” of a portion of the purchase price pending attainment of “Skims’s active occupancy of at least seventy percent (70%) of the net rental square footage of the ‘Premises’ under the Skims Lease . . . .” (Id. ¶ 5; Exh. 4, section 8(a).) Pursuant to the Third Amendment, Kingsbarn increased its purchase deposit to $5 million. However, the Third Amendment also provided that Kingsbarn was entitled to receive a refund of $2.5 million of its deposit if certain conditions were fulfilled, including if Skims was not occupying 70% of the Premises by December 28, 2023. (Jones Decl. ¶ 7, Exh. 4, section 3(b).) The Third Amendment to the PSA contains a paragraph labeled “Skims Closing Occupancy.” (Caldarelli Decl., Exh. 4, ¶ 3(b).) It provides in full:Skims Closing Occupancy. If (i) the Skims Closing Occupancy occurs on or after December 28, 2023, (ii) a new lender appraisal is required by Buyer's lender prior to Closing and is issued during the first quarter of 2024, (iii) the lender appraisal shows a Property value of less than 90% of the Purchase Price, and (iv) Buyer elects not to proceed to Closing on the basis thereof by notice to Seller no later than five (5) days after the appraisal issuance (with failure to provide notice constituting an election to proceed to Closing), then, notwithstanding that the same shall be considered a default by Buyer under Section 16.2 of the Original Purchase Agreement, in this specific instance, Buyer and Seller agree that Seller shall be entitled to retain $2,500,000 of the Deposit as liquidated damages pursuant to Section 16.2 of the Original Purchase Agreement, and Seller shall return the remaining portion of the Deposit made by Buyer pursuant to Sections 2 and 3 above, in the amount of $2,500,000.(Id.)The Third Amendment defines “Skims Closing Occupancy” as “if Skims occupies seventy percent (70%) of the ‘Premises’ under the Skims Lease.” (Id. 3(a).) Notably, the Third Amendment also provides that the 70% occupancy “may be evidenced by a writing from Tenant certifying such occupancy.” (Id.)On December 13, 2023, Skims sent a letter to Snyder and Alysanne stating that, as of December 13, 2023, the tenant occupied the premises. (the “Skims Letter”). (Jones Decl. ¶ 8, Exh. 5.) However, the Skims Letter did not state that Skims was occupying or actively conducting business from 70% of the Premises, as contemplated in the Third Amendment. (Id.) The letter was also sent from a different address. (Id.) Thus, on December 14, 2023, a Kingsbarn representative, Ray Matyas, visited the Building to determine the status of Skims’ tenancy. That inspection revealed that the building was virtually empty. (Jones Decl. ¶ 9; Matyas Decl. ¶¶ 2-8.)Subsequently, the remaining conditions to Kingsbarn’s right to a refund of the $2.5 million deposit were fulfilled, and Kingsbarn demanded return of its funds. (Jones Decl. ¶ 10.) Defendants have refused. (Id.) Thus, Kingsbarn contends that Defendants have breached the PSA.In opposing the motion, Defendants argue that Plaintiff has failed to present sufficient evidence supporting its Motion. They also contend that Plaintiff has failed to establish the probable validity of its claims “given the clear contractual language at issue that undermines its entire case.” (Opp. 2: 11-15.) Although Defendants contend Plaintiff’s evidence is “self-serving” (Opp. 1: 10), the court finds that the evidence is admissible, and for the reasons that follow, sufficient to establish all elements of a cause of action for breach of contract. (See Fireman's Fund Ins. Co. v. Workers' Comp. Appeals Bd. (2010) 189 Cal. App. 4th 101, 111 [“Extrinsic or parol evidence may be used to explain ambiguity, context or related matter”].)First, Plaintiff’s interpretation of the Purchase Agreement is not clearly erroneous or unreasonable. Just the opposite. As the court reasoned when addressing this same argument when Ruling on Defendant’s demurrer to the Complaint:While the letter stated that Skims “occupies the Premises,” it failed to state that Skims occupied 70% of the Premises. Under the plain terms of the Third Amendment, it was the not any occupancy, but rather a threshold occupancy—70%—that mattered. It would not be unreasonable, from Plaintiff’s perspective, to conclude that the Letter’s failure to state the 70% occupancy might have a been an implicit concession that occupancy was not at that level. At the very least, Plaintiff might have reasonably raised alarm. (08/23/2024 Ruling on Demurrer, pp. 5-6.) Second, it is not obvious what the parties intended when stating the 70% occupancy “may be evidenced by a writing.” Plaintiff’s argument that the letter was evidence of the occupancy, but not dispositive evidence, is again entirely reasonable. As this court reasoned previously, “if the parties contemplated that the letter, by itself, would be conclusive evidence of the required occupancy, they could have clearly established that desire with language to that effect. Because they did not, there exists a reasonable ambiguity as to whether the letter was sufficient to establish the requisite tenancy—especially in light of the allegation that Plaintiff’s own[] investigation found the premises to be virtually empty.” (08/23/2024 Ruling on Demurrer, p. 6.) After the motion had been fully briefed and two days before the hearing on this motion, Plaintiff filed a Notice of Related Case. The dispute in Kingsbarn Realty Capital, LLC et al. v. Keybank National Association, LASC case no. 24STCV17680 (the “Related Case”), arises out a dispute over Plaintiff’s attempt to procure financing from KeyBank for purchase of the building at 1601 Vine Street. Plaintiff filed the action against Keybank in July of 2024, about three months after it filed this action against Alysanne and Snyder Vine. After argument and based on the potential relevance of the Related Case to the issues raised by the writs of attachment, this court ordered supplemental briefing. Defendants filed a supplemental brief and evidence on September 30, 2024, and Plaintiff filed a supplemental response on October 2, 2024.Defendants argue in their supplemental brief that the “Term Sheet” between Plaintiff and its anticipated lender, KeyBank, demonstrates that the 70% occupancy requirement does not mean actual occupancy, but instead, only the payment of rent. Defendants assert that “[i]f Plaintiff’s lender, the party responsible for imposing the occupancy requirement in the first place, defines occupancy as payment of rent, Plaintiff cannot in good faith assert there is any other meaning.” (Supp. Brief. 7: 12-14.) The paragraph in the Term Sheet labeled “Tenant Estoppels” states:As a condition to closing, Lender must receive, for all commercialproperties, tenant estoppels from any tenant whose lease represents10% or more of the in-place base rent for the Property and all tenantestoppels received by the Lender must aggregate no less than 70% ofthe total in-place base rent for the Property. Despite compliance withthe above referenced tenant estoppel requirement, if prior to closingthere are material defaults (by either the landlord or the tenant) in thetenant leases shown on the rent roll submitted to Lender in support ofthis Term Sheet, Lender shall have the option to refuse to close theLoan and to cancel this Term Sheet…(Rosenberg Decl. ¶ 6, Exh. A, p. 6.) Therefore, Plaintiff’s lender required “as a condition to closing” that it receive tenant estoppels amounting to at least “70% of the total in-place base rent for the Property.” (Id.) This would not necessarily require a form of use or occupancy from the tenants, only the payment of rent. This is notable because this 70% figure needed for “in-place base rent” is the same as the 70% figure for “occupancy” used in the Third Amendment. In addition, in the “Appraisal Report” prepared by Colliers International for KeyBank in February 2023, the parties used “occupancy” in terms of the building’s square footage. (Rosenberg Decl. ¶ 6, Exh. B.) Skims was anticipated to occupy the vast majority of the building’s square footage. (Id.)Defendants’ point is that the 70% figure of “occupancy” in the Third Amendment was essentially a term set by Plaintiff’s Lender. Because Plaintiff’s financing was dependent on 70% “in-place base rent” being satisfied, Plaintiff included a similar term in the Third Amendment to protect itself should the lease(s) not be in place and financing fell through. Indeed, Plaintiff notes the “importance of the status of the Skims tenancy to the financing of the transaction and to Kingsbarn’s lender” as a reason for seeking to determine Skim’s occupancy at the building. (Compl. ¶ 9 [emphasis added].) It follows that because KeyBank only required payment of rent—not any form of occupancy—that is all the parties contemplated by the 70% figure in the Third Amendment.In its Supplemental Response, Plaintiff accuses Defendants of “conflating” the language in the Term Sheet and Third Amendment. Importantly, Plaintiff also points to a different portion of the KeyBank Term Sheet which Plaintiff suggests set forth a different 70% figure, which requires “active occupancy.” The “Modifications and/or Additional Requirements” section provides:Letter of Credit: Prior to Closing, either Seller or SKIMS shall haveobtained a definitive and binding letter of credit in the amount ofFifteen Million Dollars ($15,000,000) from an "A" rated or betterbank, subject to KeyBank's reasonable approval and assigned toKeyBank at Closing (the "LOC"). The LOC shall be released onceSKIMS actively occupies at least seventy percent (70%) of the netrentable square footage of the Building ("Tenant's OccupancyThreshold"). In certain instances of casualty or condemnation, theLOC shall be released and Buyer shall provide a replacement letter ofcredit as so required by KeyBank.(Rosenberg Decl. ¶ 6, Exh. A, p. 10, emphasis added.) Plaintiff argues this “demonstrate[s] that KeyBank was requiring that Skims actually, physically occupy the Premises and conduct business therein,” and it “was not enough for Skims to be under lease for the Premises to satisfy KeyBank…” (Supp. Response 4: 16-24.) This evidence demonstrates varying forms of a 70% figure in the parties’ dealings, ranging from “occupies” to “actively occupies” to the “total in-place base rent.” Ultimately, while this new evidence certainly informs the analysis in interpreting the Third Amendment and the parties’ intent, it is not conclusive as to what the parties meant by 70% occupancy in paragraph 3(b) of the Third Amendment.  However, based on the evidence and the language of the contract, the court finds it more probable than not that the Third Amendment requires more than the mere payment of rent where it contemplates that Skims “occupies seventy percent (70%) of the ‘Premises’ under the Skims Lease.” (Caldarelli Decl., Exh. 4, ¶ 3(a).) It requires some form of actual, physical occupancy. Therefore, at least for purposes of this motion, Plaintiff has adequately demonstrated that this threshold occupancy was not met, and it should have been returned half of its deposit. (Jones Decl. ¶ 9; Matyas Decl. ¶¶ 2-8.)Finally, Defendants also argue that Plaintiff cannot establish causation on its breach of contract claim because Plaintiff was unable to close the transaction in the first place. (See Rosenberg Decl. ¶¶ 10-12.) “The test for causation in a breach of contract ... action is whether the breach was a substantial factor in causing the damages.” (US Ecology, Inc. v. State (2005) 129 Cal.App.4th 887, 909.) However, under the Third Amendment, Plaintiff’s ability to obtain financing was not one of the factors necessary for the return of Plaintiff’s deposit. (See Caldarelli Decl., Exh. 4, ¶ 3(b) [providing that Defendants “shall be entitled to retain $2,500,000 of the [$5,000,000] Deposit as liquidated damages” if four conditions were met].) Here, Defendants’ failure to return half of Plaintiffs’ deposit was a substantial factor in causing Plaintiff’s damages. Under the third Amendment, so long as the conditions of Section 3(b) were satisfied, Kingsbarn was entitled to a refund of $2.5 million of its $5 million deposit. The agreement does not require that Kingsbarn have financing in place. Therefore, considering the relative merits—including the plain language of the contract and all of the evidence presented in support—Plaintiff has sufficiently demonstrated “it is more probable than not” that it will prevail on its breach of contract claim. Accordingly, Plaintiff’s Applications are GRANTED. The orders and writs are issued against Defendants in the amount of $2.5 million.3. UndertakingUnder CCP section 489.220(a), “[e]xcept as provided in subdivision (b), the amount of an undertaking filed pursuant to this article shall be ten thousand dollars ($10,000).” Subsection (b), in turn, provides: “If, upon objection to the undertaking, the court determines that the probable recovery for wrongful attachment exceeds the amount of the undertaking, it shall order the amount of the undertaking increased to the amount it determines to be the probable recovery for wrongful attachment if it is ultimately determined that the attachment was wrongful.” (§ 489.220(b).)Defendants object to a $10,000 undertaking as too low. They ask for an undertaking “of not less than $100,000.” (Opp. 10: 2.) But Defendants have not established that the statutory amount is too low in this case.Accordingly, Plaintiff is ordered to file undertakings in the amount of $10,000.Plaintiff is ordered to give notice.IT IS SO ORDERED.Dated:   October 10, 2024 ___________________________________ Randolph M. Hammock Judge of the Superior Court