 Case Number:  23SMCV02412    Hearing Date:   May 1, 2024    Dept:  I This is the first in a series of about 15 motions (although
it appears that two were withdrawn).  The
demurrer is OVERRULED.
 
Plaintiff alleges products liability and other torts
concerning injuries she allegedly suffered as a result of the J-plasma/Renuvion
machine during a plastic surgery procedure. 
Defendant Apyx manufactures, distributes, markets, promotes, and sells
the device.  The device has not been
approved by the FDA for the purpose of skin tightening.  Rather, it had only a general clearance.  Even so, the complaint alleges that Apyx
marketed the device for specific procedures and set forth the outcomes it
claimed patients could expect.  Plaintiff
states that the claims were misleading because the device was off-label and
that defendants knew that the device was dangerous.  In deciding this matter, the court has
disregarded evidentiary statements that accompanied the opposition; rather, the
court relies solely on the remarkably detailed complaint and matters of which
the court can take judicial notice.
 
The demurrer as to uncertainty is OVERRULED.  That demurrer is disfavored and is proper
only where the complaint is really so jumbled that one cannot discern what it
is defendant allegedly did wrong.  That
is not the case here.  Nor does the court
intend to sustain the demurrer on ground that one cause of action is
duplicative of another.  That is the sort
of thing better resolved later.  To the
extent that there is some duplication at the pleading stage, it does no
mischief.
 
The first cause of action is for negligence in
manufacturing, distribution, marketing, and failure to warn.  The second cause of action is for strict
liability.  Defendant argues that the
first cause of action does not exist. 
The court reads the first cause of action as one for negligence,
including negligent failure to warn. 
While there are a number of flavors of negligence, it is not improper to
lump them together in a single negligence cause of action, at least the court
will not require re-pleading at this stage. 
There are interesting questions that might arise later if summary
adjudication is sought as to some but not all negligence theories, but the
court will deal with it at that time. 
(The court would most likely hear the motion on the theory that this is
really one cause of action with various “counts” and that it is not improper
under the facts of this case for a motion to be brought against a
“count.”)  And plaintiff has pled enough
for the second cause of action.  Whether
there actually is a manufacturing or design defect is something defendant can
test on discovery.  The third cause of
action is for corporate/general negligence or vicarious negligence or negligent
hiring.  The complaint, at paragraph 494
among other places, is sufficient to allege this tort.  The fifth cause of action is for intentional
and negligent infliction of emotional distress. 
This very detailed complaint alleges enough facts to give rise to the
intentional infliction tort.  The court
is aware that defendant was not aiming its conduct at plaintiff in
particular.  But for purposes of this
motion, the court finds the complaint sufficient by way of the allegations that
the defense allegedly knew that its product would cause these sorts of problems
when used the way that defendant was suggesting.  The fact that defendant was unaware that this
particular individual would be the purported victim of that conduct is not
enough to defeat the tort at the pleading stage.  The causation prong is a bit thinner, but it
is sufficient for pleading purposes.  The
court is less sanguine about negligent infliction of emotional distress, but it
does no mischief at the moment.
 
The sixth cause of action is for fraud and fraudulent
concealment.  The court has some concern
because these defendants made no statements directly to plaintiff.  But reading the complaint liberally,
statements were made to others that these defendants knew would be passed on
indirectly to consumers like plaintiff. 
To the extent that more is needed, it can be fleshed out in discovery.  The court is aware of the argument that there
is no transactional relationship between the parties.  That issue, though, is better determined at a
later date when more actual facts can be demonstrated.
 
The court does not read the fourth cause of action as having
been alleged against the demurring or moving defendants.
 
The demurring defendants have 30 days to answer.