 Case Number:  21SMCV00272    Hearing Date:   May 1, 2024    Dept:  I This is a motion to quash a deposition subpoena.  The motion is GRANTED.  
 
At the outset, the court notes the untimely reply.  It is STRICKEN.
 
On January 17, 2024, the court continued the trial of the
case.  But the court also ordered that by
continuing the case it was not continuing the discovery cut-off or other
cut-off dates (with a few exceptions not pertinent here).  The court did not bar a party from seeking to
re-open discovery by bringing an appropriate motion.  Over a month later, plaintiff served a
deposition subpoena on Bank of America for records relating to the account of
Linda Brotman, the decedent.  Defendant
objected to the discovery referee, arguing that the subpoena was untimely.  However, the subpoena did not appear in a
vacuum.  On February 20, 2024, the
referee approved the issuance of such a subpoena due to defendant’s repeated
failure to produce the documents during deposition.  The referee was quite clear.  The referee stated that defendant “said he
never signed up for on-line banking and does not have [the records].”  The referee stated that he lacked the power
to demand that defendant go get the documents, but that he could suggest that
plaintiff issue a subpoena, although the referee suggested that the race might
not be worth the candle.  The referee
then expressly authorized the subpoena. 
Defendant apparently did not respond to that email from the referee.
 
The problem is that the referee’s authorization came after
the January 17, 2024, order, and it was not made in the context of a motion to
re-open discovery.  The referee therefore
may have stepped a bit outside the lines in authorizing, apparently sua
sponte, the issuance of the subpoena. 
That said, the court has some difficulty in defendant’s behavior as
well.  The fact that the defendant did
not have on line access to bank records does not mean that the records were not
in his possession, custody, or control such that they did not need to be
produced.  If defendant had control over
the account from the bank’s perspective, then he had the ability to demand that
the documents be provided, and that actually would require that he produce
them.  The court can understand the
referee’s frustration.  But even so, a
motion should have been brought to re-open discovery, which would have allowed
the defense to oppose the motion and raise whatever grounds the defense
believed were appropriate.  The informal
way that it was done is not really the way the court envisioned.
 
There is a second problem. 
The deposition subpoena does not conform to Code of Civil Procedure
section 1985.3, which requires a notice to consumer.  While the court recognizes that the decedent
has passed away, apparently defendant is the successor-in-interest insofar as
the bank is concerned.  Perhaps
plaintiff’s view is that under those circumstances no notice to consumer is
required.  But that issue was hardly
discussed or briefed to the referee or anyone else.  In fact, plaintiff just ignores the issue
completely in opposition to this motion even though it was prominently raised
in the moving papers.
 
The cross-requests for sanctions are DENIED.  Plaintiff did not prevail, so plaintiff will
not be awarded sanctions.  While
defendant did prevail, the court is concerned that defendant did not bring to
the court’s attention the fact that the referee purported specifically to
authorize the issuance of the subpoena in question.  In light of the referee’s express order,
plaintiff had substantial justification.
 
While the motion to quash is granted for the reasons set
forth above, it is without prejudice to a motion to re-open discovery for this
purpose.  That motion may be brought to
the discovery referee, who, after hearing any opposition, may recommend
authorizing the discovery.  
 
The matter is also here on plaintiff’s request to discuss
the trial date.  A bit of background on
that.  On January 11, 2024, defendant
filed a request to continue the trial due to a conflict in that counsel was
engaged in another trial.  Defendant
sought only a short continuance. 
Plaintiff did not oppose the request, but did oppose re-opening
discovery.  The court, on its own motion,
continued that ex parte to January 17, 2024.  On that day, what the court believed was
going to be a very short and uncontested hearing took a turn in another
direction.  It turned out that the
hearing was contested with issues relating not to the need for a continuance,
but relating to discovery issues, none of which had been addressed in the
papers seeking the continuance.  At one
point the court did become frustrated at the arguments being made by defense
counsel, including counsel’s characterization of the court as trying to give a
boon to plaintiff.  The court, unable to
make the simple order it had intended to make, declared the hearing adjourned
and denied the request.  Later that day,
the court reconsidered its denial and concluded that the conflict defense
counsel had raised truly was beyond counsel’s control and that it would be unfair
to require the case to go forward on the original schedule.  The court therefore vacated its earlier order
and granted the motion.  The court set
the trial for November 25, 2024, which was the earliest date on the court’s
trial calendar that it would appear the case had a reasonable chance of trying
without bumping another case.  However,
because the court had not cleared or discussed that date with anyone, the court
invited counsel to file papers if that date was a problem.  Plaintiff filed a speedy response on January
19, 2024, stating that plaintiff agreed to a continuance due to the exigent
circumstances defense counsel had raised, but did not want the continuance to
be almost 10 months.  Plaintiff requested
an earlier trial date.  However, the
matter was not calendared for hearing. 
Plaintiff has renewed the request via ex parte application today.
 
The court will discuss with the parties a potentially
earlier trial date.  But the court notes
that it has two cases that are running on the five-year.  One is set for trial within the next 5 or 10
court days and will likely last until the end of June or early July.  The other follows closely on the heels of
that one and will likely take the court through August.  The court also notes that it is not clear
that plaintiff wants too much of an earlier trial.  Plaintiff has subpoenaed additional bank
records, which are the subject of the motion to quash also on today’s
calendar.  If plaintiff wants to pursue
that avenue, plaintiff will need some lead time to obtain an order to re-open
discovery and then serve the discovery. 
All of that said, the court recognizes that this case is already over
three years old.  It is just that, as a
realistic matter, the court doubts that it can be moved forward significantly
enough to make the exercise worthwhile.  
 
The court also notes that the parties stated that they were
going to engage in mediation—that was one of the grounds for the
continuance.  The court will inquire as
to how that went, or, if it has not yet been completed, when it is scheduled to
occur.
 