 Case Number:  22VECV02535    Hearing Date:   May 15, 2024    Dept:  T 22VECV02535
Laytin v Basson

Tentative
ruling: Defendant Serazi’s Motion to Produce Documents: Grant.  This is not a Motion to Compel Further Responses,
which would require a Separate Statement. 
Instead, this is a Motion to Compel production of documents.  The court does not address the sufficiency of
the written response; it only addresses the sufficiency of the production.  Here, plaintiff agreed to produce all
responsive documents within its possession, custody, or control as of the date
of the response.  This would include
production of responsive documents that are in the responding party’s control,
including documents in the possession of others over which he has control.  Responding party is ordered to produce all responsive
documents that were also within his control, including documents
from his banks, from his accountants or bookkeepers. He is not required to issue
subpoenas, only to obtain documents over which he has control.  If there are no responsive documents which he
believes would be in the possession of anyone or any entity in his control, he
is to provide a verified statement that he made a diligent effort to obtain
them and that (1) they no longer exist, (2) they have been lost or (3) they
have been destroyed.  Also, plaintiff has
failed to state whether he has any check books for the closed account, or any
duplicates of the checks that were written. 

Monetary sanctions in the sum of $1,500 for discovery abuse without
substantial justification is awarded to defendant Serazi against plaintiff
Matan Laytin pursuant to CCP section 2023.010, payable by 6/15/2024 to the
Client Trust Account of Law Offices of Harvey Stern and Associates, 9454
Wilshire Blvd, Penthouse, Beverly Hills, CA 90212.  Sanctions are especially appropriate because
after the motion was filed, plaintiff states in the opposition that plaintiff was
in the process of producing additional documents ... which the court finds should
have been produced before the motion was filed. 
The court finds that the sanctions requested for this relatively simple
motion were excessive and not reasonably necessary.