 Case Number:  24STCV06311    Hearing Date:   September 4, 2024    Dept:  32 


 
Andre
  johnson,  
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
 
volkswagen
  group of america, INC.; et al.,  
 
                        Defendants.
  


 
  Case No.:  24STCV06311
 
  Hearing Date:  September 4, 2024
 
[TENTATIVE] order RE:
plaintiff’s motion to compel further
  responses to requests for production of documents




 


 



BACKGROUND
This is a lemon law action.  Plaintiff Andre
johnson (“Plaintiff”) sued Defendant Volkswagen Group of America, Inc.
(“Defendant”) for violations of the Song-Beverly Consumer Warranty Act.  Plaintiff filed her complaint on March 13,
2024,  regarding defects with her 2022
Volkswagen Atlas (“the Vehicle”). 
DISCUSSION
The Court
finds Plaintiff’s discovery to be overly broad and unduly burdensome. If
Defendant has not done so already, the Court orders the following documents to
be provided to plaintiff:           
1.    
Defendant
Volkswagen Group of america, Inc.
(“Defendant”) shall produce the “Warranty Policy and Procedure Manual”
published by Defendant and provided to its authorized repair facilities, within
the State of California, for the period of date of purchase of the subject
vehicle to present.  
2.    
Defendant
shall produce any Recall Notices and Technical Service Bulletins regarding
defects alleged in plaintiff’s complaint for vehicles for the same year, make,
and model of the subject vehicle. 
Defendant is not required to do a search of emails. 
3.    
Defendant
shall produce any customer complaints relating to “brakes making a grinding
noise” in vehicles purchased in California for the same year, make and model of
the subject vehicle. 
4.    
Defendant
shall produce all documents evidencing policies and procedures used to evaluate
customer requests for repurchase pursuant to the Song-Beverly Consumer Warranty
Act, for the period of date of purchase of the subject vehicle to present.

5.    
Repair
orders and invoices concerning the subject vehicle.
6.    
Communications
with dealer, factory representative and/or call center concerning the subject
vehicle.
7.    
Warranty
claims submitted to and/or approved by Defendant concerning the subject
vehicle.
8.    
All
other requests for further production are DENIED.
9.    
Defendant
shall provide supplemental responses in compliance with this order within 45
days of this order.     
10.  The Court does not
award sanctions as it finds both sides acted with substantial justification.