 Case Number:  22VECV00728    Hearing Date:   March 13, 2024    Dept:  W ALBERT
BOYAJIAN V. SURGE GLOBAL BAKERIES PARTNERS GP, ET AL.
 
MOTION TO QUASH
SERVICE OF SUMMONS ON COMPLAINT
 
Date
of Hearing:        March 13, 2024                                 Trial Date:       None
set   
Department:
             W                                                        Case No.:        22VECV00728
 
Moving
Party:            Specially Appearing
Defendants Lewis Sharp, Thomas Beauchamp, Surge Private Equity LLC, Surge
Global Bakeries GP LLC
Responding
Party:     Plaintiff Albert Boyajian  
 
BACKGROUND
 
On May 31, 2022, Plaintiff Albert Boyajian filed a
complaint against Defendants Surge Global Bakeries Holdings LLC, Surge Global
Bakeries Partners LP, Surge Global Bakeries Partners GP, LLC, Surge Private
Equity LLC, Surge Private Equity, McLarty Capital Partners SBIC II, LP, The
Firmament Group, Thomas Beauchamp, Lewis Sharp, Lauren Steel, Parris Boyd,
Tobias Keller, Andy Burchfield, and Ashur Aghasi for (1) Limited Partner
Derivative Suit; (2) Limited Partner Derivative Suit; (3) Fraudulent
Concealment; (4) Breach of Contract; and (5) Breach of Contract.
 
This action involves shareholder derivative and direct
claims by Plaintiff. Plaintiff alleges he sold his profitable bakery for an
equity position in a parent entity, a place on the board of directors of his
former bakery (now a wholly-owned subsidiary), and a Consulting Agreement. However,
Plaintiff alleges he did not know, when he sold his company, that the purchase
was merely the first step of a lender’s scheme to exploit the company for the
lender’s benefit, entirely contrary to the best interests of the equity
holders. Plaintiff contends after the purchase, the company unwarrantedly
acquired an additional two companies and took on additional dramatic debt,
during periods of mismanagement by inept managers and the lender who controlled
the board. Moreover, since the takeover, Plaintiff alleges the lender has not
given plaintiff any information on the companies; and has not called a meeting
of the board. 
 
[TENTATIVE]
RULING:
 
Specially Appearing
Defendants Lewis Sharp, Thomas Beauchamp, Surge Private Equity LLC, Surge
Global Bakeries GP LLC’s Motion to Quash Service of Summons on Complaint is
DENIED. 


DISCUSSION
 
Specially
Appearing Defendants[1]  Surge Private Equity LLC, a Texas LLC (“Surge
Equity” or “Surge LLC”); Surge Global Bakeries GP LLC, a Delaware LLC (“Surge
GP”); Lewis Sharp (“Sharp”); and Thomas Beauchamp (“Beauchamp”) move the court
for an order quashing service of the summons on the complaint by Plaintiff
Albert Boyajian on the grounds this court lacks personal jurisdiction over the
moving defendants. This court previously continued Surge Equity, Lewis Sharp,
and Thomas Beauchamp’s motions to quash so Plaintiff could conduct jurisdictional
discovery.[2] 
 
Surge
Equity
 
Plaintiff
argues there are multiple factors supporting a finding of “minimum contacts”
between Surge Equity and California. Plaintiff points to a Management Services
Agreement to operate the California bakery business between Surge Bakeries and
Surge Equity; the use of the Surge Equity website and email resources to
conduct Surge Bakeries business in California; their successful appointment of
a California CEO they described as an “operating partner” of Surge Equity; and Surge
Equity being specifically named in agreements with Plaintiff, who is a
California resident, as the party to which notice should be directed. Moreover,
“[i]nvestment related activities by a limited partner in the forum state
support personal jurisdiction if the underlying claims arise from those
activities, but not if the claims arise from the normal operations of the
partnership in the forum state.” (Sacramento Suncreek Apartments, LLC, v.
Cambridge Advantaged Properties II, L.P. (2010) 187 Cal.App.4th 1, 15.)
Plaintiff contends Beauchamp and Sharp were actively involved in the management
and operations of Surge Bakeries through Surge Equity, independent of the MSA.
(See Brelje Decl. ¶¶3-10, Exhs. 2-9.) Lastly, Plaintiff argues the facts and
evidence support an agency relationship between Surge Equity, by and through
its principals and agents Beauchamp and Sharp; Surge Equity negotiated, funded
and structured the purchase of a California-based commercial bakery business,
Surge Bakeries; its principals attended in-person meetings in California and
made decisions that impacted individuals and businesses based in California;
and Surge Equity was permanently assigned the voting rights of the individual
investors. 
 
In
reply, Surge Equity argues as pleaded in the Partnership Agreement attached to
the Complaint as Exhibit “C”, Plaintiff agreed to bring “any suit, action or
other proceeding arising out of this Agreement or any transaction contemplated
hereby” exclusively in Texas, with an option of State or Federal Court. (Compl,
Exh. C ¶11.17.) Moreover, Holdings LLC is owned by a limited partnership
comprised of Plaintiff and others, but not by Surge Equity. Rather, Surge
Equity owns Holdings LLC as a passive investment. Surge Equity also argues
using certain email addresses does not constitute a company availing themselves
of a jurisdiction no matter where an email is sent or where it is received; incidental
visits to California do not constitute minimum contacts particularly where the
visits and meetings were in California for the convenience of Plaintiff. 
 
When
a complaint includes a parent company, the parent company’s contacts—not just
the subsidiary’s contacts—must relate to the causes of action.  (In re
Auto Antitrust Cases I&II, 135 Cal.App.4th at 116 (“If the
operative facts of the allegations of the complaint do not relate to the parent[‘s]
[] contacts in this state, then the cause of action does not arise from that
contact such that California courts may exercise specific jurisdiction.”).)
Here, the court finds Surge Equity purposefully availed itself of the forum state,
California. First, the court notes the MSA calls for the “non-exclusive
jurisdiction the United States District Court for the Northern District of
Texas and the state courts of the State of Texas[.]” Accordingly, this action
could have been brought in California. Next, the court notes that the e-mails
from Sharp and Beauchamp coming from Surge Equity in fact do show Surge Equity
going beyond a passive investor. From the Surge Equity email, Mr. Beauchamp
informed Plaintiff they were negotiating the CFO’s salary and the hiring of a
salesperson. Mr. Sharp also sent emails from the Surge Equity email providing
materials as to why the Better Baking Company acquisition was a good idea. The
court finds such conduct demonstrates some manner of deliberately directing the
subsidiary's activities in California. (See HealthMarkets, Inc. v. Superior
Court (2009) 171 Cal. App. 4th 1160, 1169.) Moreover, there is evidence the
contract negotiations occurred in California, the APA is governed by California
law, and concerned only Global Bakeries, located in California. (See Goehring
v. Superior Court (Bernier) (1998) 62 Cal.App.4th 894, 907.)
 
The
court also notes the opposition does point to a Management Services Agreement
which provides “Any legal suit, action or proceeding arising out of or based
upon this Agreement or the transactions contemplated hereby may be instituted
in the federal courts of the United States of America or the courts of the
State of Texas in each case located in the city of Dallas and County of Dallas,
and each party irrevocably submits to the exclusive jurisdiction of such courts
in any such suit, action or proceeding.” (Opp., Exh. 10.) Plaintiff points to
the MSA for the purposes of demonstrating Surge Equity provided management and
operational services to Surge Bakeries and profited from the MSA as a result.
However, the complaint does not reference the MSA nor are Plaintiff’s claims based
on the MSA; they are based on part on the Partnership Agreement, which has
non-exclusive jurisdiction clause.  
 
As
for Plaintiff’s contention regarding alter ego and/or agency, courts have
recognized that¿if a state may exercise jurisdiction over a
subsidiary¿corporation, it may also have jurisdiction over the¿parent
corporation if the¿elements of alter ego or principal/agent theories are
present.  (Sonora Diamond Corp. v. Superior Court (2000) 83
Cal. App. 4th 523, 536-537.)  When the¿elements of alter ego are present,
the ordinary rule that treats a corporation as separate from its shareholders
is disregarded; the court will deem the corporation’s acts as the acts of those
persons who own and control the entity, and the jurisdiction over the
corporation is passed through to its shareholders. (Id.¿at 538-539.)
Under the principal/agent theory, if the forum may assert jurisdiction over the
subsidiary, the forum may extend its jurisdiction to the parent if the parent
exerts a sufficiently high degree of control over its subsidiary to reasonably
deem the subsidiary the agent of the parent under traditional agency principles.
(Id.¿at pp. 540-541.) 
 
The
assertion of jurisdiction under either theory requires a fact-specific
examination of numerous elements.¿¿The two principal questions to establish
alter ego are whether there is “such a unity of interest and ownership between
the corporation and its equitable owner that the separate personalities of the
corporation and the shareholder do not in reality exist” and whether there
would be “an inequitable result if the acts in question are¿treated as those of
the corporation alone.” (Id. at 538.) The courts consider numerous
factors, including inadequate capitalization, commingling of funds and other
assets of the two entities, the holding out by one entity that it is liable for
the debts of the other, identical equitable ownership in the two entities, use
of the same offices and employees, use of one as a mere conduit for the affairs
of the other, disregard of corporate formalities, lack of segregation of
corporate records, and identical directors and officers.¿(See¿Tomaselli v.
Transamerica Ins. Co.¿(1994) 25 Cal. App. 4th 1269, 1285.)  No single factor is determinative, and
instead a court must examine all the circumstances to determine whether to
apply the doctrine. (Talbot v. Fresno-Pacific Corp.¿(1960) 181 Cal. App.
2d 425, 432.)  Moreover, even if the
unity of interest and ownership element is shown, alter ego will not be applied
absent evidence that an injustice would result from the recognition of separate
corporate identities, and “[d]ifficulty in enforcing a judgment or collecting a
debt does not satisfy this standard.” (Sonora Diamond Corp. v. Superior
Court, supra,¿83 Cal. App. 4th at 539.) 
 
Similarly,¿the
principal/agent theory is a fact-driven inquiry that requires examination of
whether the parent exercises a sufficient degree of control over its subsidiary
to establish that the subsidiary can be described as a means through¿which the
parent acts, or is nothing more than an incorporated department of the parent.
Under those circumstances, the subsidiary will be deemed to be the agent of the
parent in the forum state and jurisdiction will extend to the parent. (Sonora
Diamond Corp. v. Superior Court, supra,¿83 Cal. App. 4th at 541.)¿
It is the nature of the control exercised by the parent over the subsidiary
that is crucial, because some degree of control is an ordinary and necessary
incident of the parent’s ownership¿of the subsidiary.  Only when the degree of control exceeds this
level and reflects the parent’s purposeful disregard of the subsidiary’s
independent corporate existence that the principal/agent theory will be
invoked.  “As a practical matter, the
parent must be shown to have moved beyond the establishment of general policy
and direction for the subsidiary and in effect taken over performance of the
subsidiary's¿day-to-day¿operations in carrying out that
policy.”  (Id.¿at 541-542,
original italics.)
 
Here,
the evidence does not support a finding of alter ego. Plaintiff presents
his declaration and his counsel’s declaration to show alter ego; however, this
evidence does not show inadequate capitalization, commingling of funds and
other assets, identical equitable ownership in the two entities, use of the
same offices and employees, use of one as a mere conduit for the affairs of the
other, disregard of corporate formalities, lack of segregation of corporate
records, identical directors and officers, and so on. The court agrees,
however, a principal/agent theory exists based on the evidence that there is a degree
of control over its subsidiary as noted above. 
 
Accordingly,
Defendant Surge Equity’s Motion to Quash Service of Summons on the Complaint is
DENIED. 
 
Surge
GP
 
Plaintiff
argues Surge GP expressly consented to the personal jurisdiction of this Court
when it executed the Asset Purchase Agreement, which had a provision detailing
the submission of exclusive jurisdiction to state courts in the County of Los
Angeles. The APA was “entered into by and among Surge Global Bakeries Holdings
LLC, a Delaware limited liability company (“Buyer”), Surge Global Bakeries
Partners LP, a Delaware limited partnership (“Parent”), Global Bakeries, Inc.,
a California corporation (“Seller”), and Albert Boyajian (“Principal”).” 
 
The
reply essentially makes the same arguments. Surge GP argues Plaintiff agreed to
the exclusive jurisdiction of Texas pursuant to the Parent LP Limited
Partnership Agreement; the email address itself or the domain name does not
turn GP LLC into a limited partner of Holdings; and the written discovery shows
the Surge Defendants had limited to no contacts with California. 
 
The
complaint alleges that Surge GP acted as general partner of the Parent LP,
which signed the Asset Purchase Agreement. 
The Asset Purchase Agreement consented to exclusive jurisdiction in
California.  Were this enough to find sufficient
minimum contacts, jurisdiction would be appropriate for claims not only against
the Parent LP, but against Surge GP, the general partner.  But the law is otherwise.  Here, the only contact Surge GP has with
California is in its role as a general partner in the Parent LP.  In considering very similar facts, the court
explained:” First, jurisdiction over a partnership does not necessarily permit
a court to assume jurisdiction over the individual partners. ‘Liability
and  jurisdiction are independent.’ (Citation
omitted.) ‘Liability depends on the relationship between the plaintiff and the
defendants and between the individual defendants; jurisdiction depends only
upon each defendant's relationship with the forum.’ (Ibid.) Although individual
partners are jointly and severally liable for the torts of the partnership, ‘jurisdiction
over each defendant must be established individually.’ (Ibid., italics added;
accord SBKC Service Corp. v. 1111 Prospect Partners (D.Kan.1997) 969 F.Supp.
1254, 1260.) Thus, a California court ‘has jurisdiction over only those
individual partners who personally established the requisite minimum contacts
with California.’ (Sher v. Johnson, supra, 911 F.2d at p. 1366; accord Judicial
Council of Cal., Com., Bases of Judicial Jurisdiction over Partnerships and
other Unincorporated Associations, 14 West's Ann.Code Civ. Proc. (1973 ed.) §
410.10, pp. 476–477.)  At this stage of
the proceedings, plaintiff has not adequately established the requisite minimum
contacts between Surge GP and California. 

 
Sharp
& Beauchamp
 
Plaintiff
argues Beauchamp and Sharp were instrumental in negotiating the acquisition
price, obtaining investors, and then facilitating and structuring the asset
purchase transaction of Global Bakeries via the Surge GP, Surge LP, and Surge
Bakeries entities they created. Plaintiff further argues Beauchamp and Sharp
were actively involved in the management and operations of Surge Bakeries
through Surge Equity independent of the MSA. Plaintiff presents emails where
Beauchamp and Sharp, as agents, had continuous control over Global Bakeries and
Surge Bakeries day-to-day business operations and management, which went far
beyond a regular parent-subsidiary relationship or a passive investment.
 
In
opposition, Beauchamp and Sharp again make similar arguments regarding the
Parent LP Limited Partnership Agreement and its Consent to Jurisdiction
provision; use of emails; incidental visits to California; lack of discovery
propounded to either Beauchamp or Sharp; and discovery that Beauchamp and Sharp
acted in their representative capacity at all times. 
 
Based
on the discussion above, the court finds Beauchamp and Sharp purposefully
availed themselves to the benefits of this forum state. Beyond negotiations, Beauchamp
and Sharp engaged in business practices directly related to companies that have
minimum contacts with California. Whether or not Plaintiff has a claim against
Beauchamp and Sharp is not issue for a motion to quash for service of summons
on a complaint. 
 


