  Case Number:  22STCV04006    Hearing Date:   March 13, 2024    Dept:  W ACEVEDO, et
al. v. JOE POTCHANARD CHAUVAPUN, M.D., et al.
 
motions to compel discovery 
 
Date of Hearing:        March
13, 2024                                 Trial
Date:       April
15, 2024  
Department:              W                                                        Case No.:        22STCV04006
 
Moving Party:            Defendants
Joe Potchanard Chauvapun, M.D., Urgentpoint, Inc., and Urgentpoint Health, P.C.
Responding Party:     Plaintiff Alejandra Acevedo 
 
BACKGROUND
 
Plaintiff alleges she and the decedent,
John Francis McLaughlin, spoke about the decedent’s desire to rid himself of
his dependency on alcohol and decided for the decedent to enter a 24-hour
custodial care facility where he would undergo detoxification in a safe
environment. Decedent went to West Health, Inc. for care. Upon being admitted,
Defendants conducted a “telehealth” assessment of decedent. Plaintiff alleges,
however, Defendants failed to perform an adequate assessment and the decedent
passed away the next morning. 
 
On February 1, 2022, Plaintiff filed a
complaint against Defendants asserting causes of action for: (1) Professional
Negligence; (2) Abuse/Neglect of Dependent Adult; (3) Concealment/Intentional
Misrepresentation; (4) Negligence Per Se; and (5) Wrongful Death. 
 
[Tentative] Ruling
 
I.                   
Defendants’ Motion to Compel West
Health, Inc. and West Health, Inc.'s Former Counsel to Provide the Last Known
Addresses and Telephone Numbers of Former West Health, Inc. Employees and to take
the Depositions of the Former West Health, Inc. Employees After the Discovery
Cut Off Date is GRANTED 
II.                 
Defendants’ Motion to Compel the
Production of Documents Requested in Defendants’ Deposition Subpoena and Notice
of Deposition of The Person Most Knowledgeable at West Health, Inc. and Request
for a Second Deposition Session to take Place After the Discovery Cut-Off Date is
GRANTED
III.               
Defendants' Motion to Compel Lisa McEntyre's
Deposition and Request for Deposition to take Place after the Discovery Cutoff
Date is GRANTED
 
discussion
 
I.                   
DEFENDANTS’ MOTION
TO COMPEL WEST HEALTH, INC. AND WEST HEALTH, INC.'S FORMER COUNSEL TO PROVIDE
THE LAST KNOWN ADDRESSES AND TELEPHONE NUMBERS OF FORMER WEST HEALTH, INC. EMPLOYEES
AND TO TAKE THE DEPOSITIONS OF THE FORMER WEST HEALTH, INC. EMPLOYEES AFTER THE
DISCOVERY CUT OFF DATE
 
Defendants
Joe Potchanard Chauvapun, M.D., Urgentpoint, Inc., and Urgentpoint Health, P.C.
move this court to compel West Health, Inc., and/or West Health Inc.'s former
counsel to provide the last known addresses and telephone numbers of former
West Health, Inc. employees and to take the deposition of the former West
Health, Inc. employees after the discovery cut-off date. Defendants make the
motion on the ground Defendants have a statutory right to obtain the contact
information for the West Health, Inc. former employees that cared for and treated
decedent John Francis McLaughlin during his admission to West Health on or
about November 22, 2020 and November 23, 2020.
 
Defendants
argue they have a statutory right to the former West Health's employees’ last
known address and telephone number. “Central to the discovery process is the
identification of potential witnesses. ‘The disclosure of the names and
addresses of potential witnesses is a routine and essential part of discovery.’”
Further, the Civil Discovery Act provides for a party to obtain information by
taking oral or written depositions. That right presumes that a party has access
to witnesses' contact information. Third parties have an obligation to provide
former employees' last known addresses and telephone numbers when they are percipient
witnesses to a case. (Puerto v. Superior Court (2008) 158 Cal.App.4th
1242, 1249.) Moreover, Defendants wish to depose former West Health employees
that cared for and treated Mr. McLaughlin during his admission at West Health
on November 22, 2020 and November 23, 2020. Defendants contend these witnesses will
have information about Mr. McLaughlin's care and treatment during his West
Health admission and were the last individuals to see Mr. McLaughlin alive. Accordingly,
Defendants request West Health and/or West Health's former counsel provide the
last known addresses and telephone numbers of April Berg, Ashley Bloch, Gary
Greene, Emily Pomerantz, Michelle Freiberger, Lisa McEntyre, and Delina Marsala
and, separately, this +court grant Defendants' request to take the depositions
of April Berg, Ashley Bloch, Gary Greene, Michelle Freiberger, Lisa McEntyre
and Delina Marsala after the discovery cut-off date on March 15, 2024.
 
Plaintiff
argues Defendants were dilatory in their efforts to secure the depositions, and
service of this motion on attorney Joel Douglass was inappropriate and
improper. As for Plaintiff’s contention that service was improper, the court
disagrees. The proof of service attached to the moving papers states service
was done by “Email and Personal Service”. Moreover, in reply, Defendants have
attached proof of service showing personal service. In regard to Plaintiff’s
contention that Defendants were dilatory, Plaintiff argues Defendants knew of
the identity of the West Health employees who assisted with the Decedent’s care
(as they readily admit in their moving papers) since before the inception of
this case over two years ago.  The court
finds moving parties have adequately explained the reason for their delay in
bringing this motion and find it timely. 
 
 
Accordingly,
Defendants’ Motion to Compel West Health, Inc. and West Health, Inc.'s Former
Counsel to Provide the Last Known Addresses and Telephone Numbers of Former
West Health, Inc. Employees and to Take the Depositions of the Former West
Health, Inc. Employees after the Discovery Cut Off Date is GRANTED.   West Health to produce the last known
addresses and phone numbers no later than March 18.   The depositions may be taken, if properly
noticed, up to the last day prior to trial.  
The court may consider a request to continue trial to allow the
depositions to be taken in an orderly fashion. 

 
II.                 
DEFENDANTS’ MOTION
TO COMPEL THE PRODUCTION OF DOCUMENTS REQUESTED IN DEFENDANTS’ DEPOSITION
SUBPOENA AND NOTICE OF DEPOSITION OF THE PERSON MOST KNOWLEDGEABLE AT WEST
HEALTH, INC. AND REQUEST FOR A SECOND DEPOSITION SESSION TO TAKE PLACE AFTER
THE DISCOVERY CUT-OFF DATE
 
Defendants move this court to compel
the production of documents requested in Defendants’ deposition subpoena and
notice of deposition of the person most knowledgeable at West Health, Inc. and
seek a second session of the deposition to take place after the discovery cut-off
date. Defendants also seek the imposition of sanctions in the amount of
$2,007.50 as against West Health, Inc.'s former counsel Joel Douglas at Bonne,
Bridges, Mueller, O'Keefe & Nichols. Defendants make the motion on the
grounds West Health, Inc.'s failed to produce any responsive documents to
Requests for Production Numbers 3, 4, 5, 6, and 7 and failed to serve objections
to the deposition subpoena in regards to Requests for Production Numbers 3, 4,
5, 6 and 7.
 
Code of Civil Procedure section
2025.480 provides: (a) If a deponent fails to answer any question or to produce
any document, electronically stored information, or tangible thing under the
deponent's control that is specified in the deposition notice or a deposition
subpoena, the party seeking discovery may move
the court for an order compelling that answer or production. Code of Civil
Procedure section 2025.610(b) provides: “Notwithstanding subdivision (a), for
good cause shown, the court may grant leave to take a subsequent deposition,
and the parties, with the consent of any deponent who is not a party, may
stipulate that a subsequent deposition be taken. 
 
Defendants argue they served a proper
deposition subpoena on West Health, Inc. on January 9, 2024, which included 3
requests for production of documents as well as served a proper Notice to
Consumer. On January 23, 2024, West Health’s counsel sent an email link
containing the requested documents. 
Counsel for West Health explained that they were producing everything
requested except for documents specific to Sylvia Estrada “as she has objected
based on her privacy.”  No written
objections were served.   On January 23, Trevis Smith was produced for
deposition as the PMK for West Health. 
At the conclusion of the deposition, defendants reserve the right to
seek a second day of deposition since certain documents had not been
produced.   A day later, defense counsel
agreed to produce additional documents regarding Ms. Estrada.  
 
Defendants argue the requested
documents are relevant to the matter as one of the issues in this case is Ms.
Estrada's failure to comply with Dr. Chauvapun's order and Ms. Estrada claim
that there was a 24 hour hold on administering Ativan at West Health, Inc.
Defendants contend Dr. Chauvapun's order to start Mr. McLaughlin on Ativan and
the timing when Ativan was to start is the main issue in this case. Thus, Ms.
Estrada's orientation and training at West Health, Inc. is directly relevant to
evaluate the veracity of Ms. Estrada's testimony.  The court agrees that the documents are
directly relevant to this case.  
 
In opposition, Plaintiff argues service
on the motion was improper and Defendants were dilatory in their efforts to
secure the personnel file of Ms. Estrada. Plaintiff also argues West Health’s attorney
left a specific note stating that they would not be producing anything specific
to (former West Health employee) Sylvia Estrada, based on privacy grounds.
Lastly, Plaintiff contends Defendants attorney, Heather DeFalco, improperly
went behind Mr. Douglass back, after he had informed them of Estrada’s privacy
objection, and called Mr. Douglass subordinate/associate attorney (Joseph
Diochea) in order to try to convince him to release Estrada’s personnel records
that Mr. Douglass had objected to the day before. In reply, Defendants note throughout Mr. Douglas'
representation of West Health, Mr. Douglas requested that Defendants' counsel
work with Mr. Dicochea directly.
 
The court finds West Health failed to
properly produce documents to Defendants’ properly served deposition subpoena.
As noted above, the motion was properly served. Moreover, Defendants have shown
good cause to take a second deposition since the documents requested were not
produced. As for the privacy contention, the court finds the Defendant’s
compelling need for these documents outweighs any privacy objections
raised.   
 
Sanctions
 
Defendants request monetary sanction
pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 2025.450 in the amount of $2,007.50
against Joel Douglas at Bonne Bridges Mueller O'Keefe & Nichols. 
 
The court denies Defendants’ request as
both parties acted with substantial justification. 
 
III.               
DEFENDANTS' MOTION
TO COMPEL LISA MCENTYRE'S DEPOSITION AND REQUEST FOR DEPOSITION TO TAKE PLACE
AFTER THE DISCOVERY CUTOFF DATE; REQUEST FOR SANCTIONS AGAINST WEST HEALTH,
INC.'S COUNSEL JOEL DOUGLASS IN THE AMOUNT OF $2,403.85
 
Defendants move this Court to compel
the Deposition of Lisa McEntyre, pursuant to Defendants Notice of Deposition
and Deposition Subpoena that was served on Joel Douglas, counsel for Mrs. McEntyre,
on January 19, 2024 and for an award of 2,403.85 in monetary sanctions against
Mrs. McEntyre's counsel Joel Douglas at Bonne Bridges Mueller O'Keefe &
Nichols as reimbursement for the attorney's fees and deposition costs incurred
by Defendants in relation thereto. As the discovery cut-off date is on March
15, 2024, Defendants also request that this court grant the request for Defendants
to take Lisa McEntyre's deposition after the discovery cut of date of March 15,
2024. Defendants make the motion on the grounds that Lisa McEntyre's counsel, Joel
Douglas, accepted service of a deposition subpoena and notice of deposition on Ms.
McEntyre’s behalf; however, Ms. McEntrye then failed to appear for her properly
noticed deposition on February 5, 2024 via remote deposition.
 
Defendants argue the information sought
by Defendants in taking Ms. McEntyre's deposition is highly relevant and
appropriately discoverable as Ms. McEntyre was assigned to perform rounds on
Mr. McLaughlin during his admission to West Health. Defendants contend information
about Mr. McLaughlin's care and treatment at West Health is directly relevant
to the issues of liability, causation and the alleged damages in this case. The
court agrees. The information sought is relevant and discoverable. The court
grants Defendants’ request to allow the deposition of Lisa McEntyre to take
place after the discovery cut-off date. 
 
Plaintiff makes the same arguments as
above. As noted, the motions were properly served and moreover, the motions are
timely.  Ms. McEntyre is ordered to
appear at her deposition at a date to be decided at the hearing.  If a date cannot be agreed upon, the court
will consider continuing the trial date to allow the orderly completion of
discovery. 
 
Sanctions
 
Defendants request monetary sanctions against
Joel Douglas at Bonne Bridges Mueller O'Keefe & Nichols in the amount of
$2,403.85 on the grounds Mr. Douglas clearly misused the discovery process by
refusing to allow for Ms. McEntyre to appear for her properly noticed
depositions.
 
The court denies Defendants’ request as
both parties acted with substantial justification. 
 