 Case Number:  23VECV03073    Hearing Date:   March 13, 2024    Dept:  W Maricela
Guzman v. Superior Loan Servicing, a corporation.
 
DEMURRER to
the first amended complaint
 
Date of Hearing:        March
13, 2024                     Trial Date:       None 
Department:              W                                            Case
No.:        23VECV03073
 
Moving Party:             Defendants Superior
Loan Servicing and Horizon Chapel Fellowship Park Chapel 
Responding Party:     Plaintiff
Maricela Guzman
Meet and Confer:      Yes.

 
BACKGROUND
 
Plaintiff Maricela Guzman entered into
a loan agreement with Horizon Chapel Fellowship Park Chapel for which defendant
Superior Loan Servicing was the loan servicer.  
She alleges that the loan included an onerous and illegal liquidated
damages provision and that the collection of the loan by defendants violated
federal and state laws protecting borrowers. 

 
[Tentative] Ruling
 
Defendants’ Demurrer is OVERRULED in
part and SUSTAINED in part without leave to amend.  
 
ANALYSIS
 
First Cause of Action for Violation of
Civil Code Section 1671
 
            Civil
Code Section 1671(d) prohibits certain liquidated damages provisions.  The Legislature amended section 1671 in 1978
in “order to express a new policy favoring the enforcement of liquidated damage
provisions except against the consumer in a consumer case. (Civ.Code, § 1671,
subds. (b) and (c); see Cal. Law Revision Com. comment on § 1671, subd. (b).)
In pertinent part, subdivision (b) of Civil Code section 1671 now provides that
‘... a provision in a contract liquidating the damages for the breach of a
contract is valid unless the parties seeking to invalidate the provision
establishes that the provision was unreasonable under the circumstances
existing at the time the contract was made.’” (McGuire v. More-Gas Investments,
LLC (2013) 220 Cal.App.4th 512, 522, citation omitted.)  
 
            In
the instant case, plaintiff alleges the loan agreement provided that late
payment of the final balloon payment, would carry an automatic $29,000 penalty,
regardless of the amount of the final balloon payment; it imposed late fees of
10% on any delinquent payment; and, in addition, it provided that in the event
of default on any payment, the borrower would be charged an additional charge
of 8%, in addition to the base rate of 13.5 % “based on the principal balance.”
The borrower was also required to pay all costs of collection and reasonable
attorney fees incurred by the beneficiary on account of any collection
activities, the actual damages that a liquidated damages provision is supposed
to replace. Plaintiff has adequately plead that the
liquidated damages provision here was an unreasonable estimate of the damages
defendant would incur should the balloon payment be late.  (See Honchariw v. FJM Private Mortgage
Fund, LLC (2022) 83 Cal.App.5th 893, 902.) 

            
The demurrer to the First Cause of
Action is overruled.  
 
Second Cause of Action for Violation of
the Fair Debt Collections Practice Act (FDCPA). 
 
            The
federal Fair Debt Collection Practices Act (FDCPA) (15 U.S.C. Section 1692, et
seq.) applies to collection of certain debts, defined by the act as “any
obligation or alleged obligation of a consumer to pay money arising out of a
transaction in which the money, property, insurance, or services which are the
subject of the transaction are primarily for personal, family, or household
purposes, whether or not such obligation has been reduced to judgment.”  Because the loan at issue here was not for
personal, family or household purposes, but rather for “business purposes,” the
FDCPA does not apply.  
 
Defendant’s demurrer is sustained
without leave to amend.  
 
Third Cause of Action for Violation of
Civil Code Section 1788.13
 
            Civil
Code Section 1788.13 only applies to consumer credit transactions which are in
turn defined as “transaction[s] between a natural person and another person in
which property, services, or money is acquired on credit by that natural person
from the other person primarily for personal, family or household
purposes.”   The Promissory Note signed
by plaintiff was for a “non-owner-occupied property business purpose
loan.”  (See Exhibit A to original
complaint).  Accordingly, Section 1788.13
does not apply to this transaction. 
 
The demurrer is sustained without leave
to amend to the Third Cause of Action.
 
 
Fourth Cause of Action for Violation of
Civil Code Section 1788.13
 
            Civil
Code Section 2954.4 applies to “single-family owner-occupied dwellings.”   The Promissory Note clearly provided that
the loan taken out by plaintiff was not intended to cover a qualified dwelling;
rather it was intended to be secured by 
“non-owner occupied property” and to be used for business purposes.  As such, the loan is not covered by the
protections extended by Section 2954.4 to loans on owner-occupied
dwellings.  The demurrer to the fourth
cause of action is sustained without leave to amend.  
 
Fifth Cause of Action for Unfair
Business Practices
 
            Defendants
demur to the Fifth Cause of Action under Bus. & Professions Code Section
17200, et seq. on the ground it fails to state a cause of action.  Because plaintiff has adequately plead a
cause of action for violation of Section 1671 of the Civil Code, she has also
adequately plead that defendants’ conduct violated Section 17200 of the
Business and Professions Code, which prohibits all unlawful business
practices.  (Cel-Tech Communications,
Inc. v. Los Angeles Cellular Telephone Co. (1999) 20 Cal.4th
163.)  