 Case Number:  22STCV07480    Hearing Date:   October 2, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are encouraged to meet and confer
concerning this tentative ruling to determine if a resolution may be
reached.  If the parties are unable to
reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this tentative ruling, the
party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to
submit.  The email shall include the case
number, date and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if
applicable), and the identity of the party submitting on this tentative
ruling.  If the Court does not receive an
email indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there
are no appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar
or adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court. 

 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


October
  2, 2024




CASE NUMBER:


22STCV07480




MOTIONS:  


(1)  
  Compel Further Responses to Special Interrogatories,
  Set Three
(2)  
  Compel Further Responses to Requests for Production
  of Documents, Set Three




MOVING PARTY:


Plaintiff
  Lita Abella  




OPPOSING PARTY:


Defendant
  Hollywood Park Management Company, LLC



 
 
BACKGROUND
 
On
May 24, 2022, Plaintiff Lita Abella (“Plaintiff”) filed the
operative first amended complaint (“FAC”) alleging negligence and premises
liability. Plaintiff alleges she was sitting in her seat at the Sofi Stadium on
February 13, 2022, when a spectator several rows above her, fell over the rows
and hit Plaintiff in the back, causing injuries. (FAC ¶ 13-22.) 
 
Plaintiff alleges Defendant Hollywood Park Management Company, LLC
(“Defendant”) owned or controlled the stadium and alleges various defects with
the stadium seating such as “the stadium seating lacked an appropriate,
necessary, properly designed, assembled, well-constructed and adequately
maintained seat height such that it was foreseeable a reasonable person at Sofi
Stadium walking or standing in the Sofi Stadium rows, and using them in a
reasonably foreseeable manner, could and would lose their balance and fall
several rows beneath them, without any way to catch themselves.” (FAC ¶ 32.)
 
On May 13, 2024, Plaintiff propounded Defendant with Special
Interrogatories, Set Three and Request for Production of Documents, Set Three. (Ortiz
Decl. ¶ 6, Exh. D.) On June 21, 2024, Defendant served responses with only
objections. (Id. ¶ 8, Exh. E.) Plaintiff asserts the responses are
deficient. 
 
Plaintiff now moves to compel further responses to Special
Interrogatories, Set Three, numbers 63 to 76. Plaintiff also moves to compel
further responses to Request for Production of Documents, Set Three numbers 57
to 66. Plaintiff also seeks monetary sanctions. Defendant opposes. No reply has
been filed. 
 
MEET
AND CONFER
 
On April 16, 2024 and September 10, 2024, the parties participated in
IDCs related to this matter. The issues were not resolved. 
 
LEGAL
STANDARD
 
I. Compel
Further Response to Special Interrogatories
 
Code of Civil Procedure section 2030.300(a) provides that
“on receipt of a response to interrogatories, the propounding party may move
for an order compelling a further response if the propounding party deems that
any of the following apply:¿ 
¿ 
(1) An answer to a particular interrogatory is evasive or
incomplete.¿ 
(2) An
exercise of the option to produce documents under Section 2030.230 is
unwarranted or the required specification of those documents is inadequate.¿ 
(3) An objection to an interrogatory is without merit or
too general.”¿ 
 
The motion must be accompanied by a meet and confer
declaration. (Code Civ. Proc. § 2030.300(b)(1).) “Unless notice of this motion
is given within 45 days of the service of the verified response, or any
supplemental verified response, or on or before any specific later date to
which the propounding party and the responding party have agreed in writing,
the propounding party waives any right to compel a further response to the
interrogatories.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 2030.300(c).)¿¿ 
¿ 
“The court shall impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7
(commencing with Section 2023.010) against any party, person, or attorney who
unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel a further response to
interrogatories, unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction acted
with substantial justification or that other circumstances make the imposition
of the sanction unjust.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 2030.300(d).)¿¿¿
 
II. Compel
Further Responses to Request for Production 
 
Code of Civil Procedure section 2031.310(a) provides that
on receipt of a response to a request for production of documents, the
demanding party may move for an order compelling further responses if:¿ 
¿ 
(1) A statement of compliance with the demand is
incomplete.¿ 
(2) A representation of inability to comply is inadequate,
incomplete, or evasive.¿ 
(3) An objection in the response is without merit or too
general.¿¿ 
 
A response
consisting of an objection must specify with particularly the document being
objected to, and, if based on privilege, must provide sufficient factual
information for other parties to evaluate the merits of this claim, including
if necessary, a privilege log. (Code Civ. Proc. § 2031.240 (b), (c).) 
¿ 
The motion must set forth specific facts showing good cause
for the discovery and include a meet and confer declaration. (Code Civ. Proc. §
2031.310(b).) 
 
“Unless notice of this motion is given within 45 days of
the service of the verified response, or any supplemental verified response, or
on or before any specific later date to which the demanding party and the
responding party have agreed in writing, the demanding party waives any right
to compel a further response to the demand.”¿ (Code Civ. Proc., §
2031.310(c).)¿¿¿ 
 
The court shall impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7
(commencing with Section 2023.010) against any party, person, or attorney who
unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel further response to a
demand, unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with
substantial justification or that other circumstances make the imposition of
the sanction unjust. (Code Civ. Proc. § 2031.310 (h).) 
 
DISCUSSION
 
Here,
Plaintiff seeks to compel further responses to Special Interrogatories, Set Three,
numbers 63 to 76 and Request for Production of Documents, Set Three numbers 57
to 66. Plaintiff contends the discovery is limited to prior incidents where
guests fell due to the design of the stadium seating (seat height, seat design,
and attached cupholder). (Motion, 9.) The Court finds that this limit is
relevant to the issues raised in the complaint. (FAC ¶ 32.) The discovery at
issue also seeks information on witnesses to the incident, the name of the
system that the Sofi Stadium uses to record injuries, and the name of the
video/security system Sofi Stadium uses. 
 
Defendant
objects that the discovery is vague, overbroad, duplicative, subject to the attorney/client
privilege, work product, and is irrelevant.  
 
In
opposition, Defendant argues that Plaintiff previously defined “factually
similar incidents” to occurrences of “an unknown guest tripping and falling
onto another seated guest and causing injury to the seated guest”. (Opp., 5;
Hogoboom Decl. ¶ 25; Bradley Decl. ¶ 3.) However, that argument appears moot as
Plaintiff has since then propounded new discovery requests with different
definitions. 
 
Next,
Defendant argues that requests seeking information on injuries that occurred
after the February 13, 2022 incident are irrelevant to prove notice. Defendant
also contends the similar incidents where a guest was transported to the
hospital, or where a McCormick Ambulance Report was generated, violates
third-party privacy rights. However, it does not appear on the face of the
discovery requests that this would involve any personal medical information, as
the discovery is only seeking information about the incident that led to a
hospital transport. However, the Court notes that Request for Production number
61 requests documents from McCormick Ambulance. To the extent these documents
contain any personal medical information, Defendant can redact it accordingly and/or
assert a valid objection.  
 
Defendant
contends it has already provided two factually similar incidents, including
case numbers, in supplemental responses to Requests for Production and Special
Interrogatories, Set Two. (Opp., 7.) Still, Defendant’s main argument appears
to be that incidents involving guests tripping or failing within the stadium
seating areas is too broad. However, Defendant provides no facts discussing how
the seating areas vary within the stadium to warrant a further limitation on
certain sections which may contain the similar design defect that Plaintiff is
alleging. On the other hand, it does not appear that “substantially similar
incidents” should include all falls within the spectator seating areas, absent
some connection with the design defect that Plaintiff is alleging. The Court
notes that Special Interrogatories, Set Three did contain a more broad
definition of “substantially similar incidents” and it appears there was no
definition in Request for Production, Set Three. As a result, there appears to
be some basis for the overbroad objection since “substantially similar
incidents” was not expressly limited to falls in the spectator seating areas relating
to the design defect.
 
As
for the remaining objections asserted, including based on privilege,
Defendant’s opposition provides no basis except for the relevancy of incidents
after February 13, 2022. Plaintiff has not filed a reply and fails to set forth
the relevancy of such evidence. As a result, discovery should be limited to
incidents up to February 13, 2022. 
 
Therefore,
the motions to compel further responses to Special Interrogatories, Set Three,
and Request for Production of Documents, Set Three is granted in part.
 
CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
 
Therefore, the Court GRANTS in part Plaintiff’s motion to compel
further responses to Special Interrogatories, Set Three, numbers 63 to 76.
Defendant shall provide further responses in accordance with the findings in
this order within 10 days. 
 
The Court GRANTS in part Plaintiff’s motion to compel further
responses to Request for Production of Documents, Set Three numbers 57 to 66. Defendant
shall serve further responses in accordance with the findings in this order within
10 days.
 
Plaintiff
to provide notice and file a proof of service of such. 
 