 Case Number:  21STCV25331    Hearing Date:   October 2, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


October
  2, 2024




CASE NUMBER:


21STCV25331




MOTIONS:  


Motion
  to Contesting Good Faith Settlement Determination




MOVING PARTY:


Defendant/Cross-Complainant Palisades
  Homeowners Association #3




OPPOSING PARTY:


(1)  
  Plaintiffs Poppy Webster, , Ludovica Pietroiacovo,
  Valentina Pietroiacovo, and Michael Pietroiacovo
(2)  
  Defendants/Cross-Defendants Adam Gruen and Amanda
  Gruen  



 
 
BACKGROUND
 
On January 10, 2022, Plaintiffs Poppy Webster, Ludovica Pietroiacovo,
a minor, Valentina Pietroiacovo, a minor, and Michael Pietroiacovo
(collectively, “Plaintiffs”) filed the operative second amended complaint
(“SAC”) against Defendants Adam Gruen, Amanda Gruen, Palisades Homeowners
Association #3, and Does 1 to 100.
 
The SAC alleges that on June 6, 2021, a pit bull owned by Adam Gruen
and Amanda Gruen (collectively, “the Gruens”), attacked Michael Pietroiacovo
and Poppy Webster’s daughter, Ludovica Pietroiacovo (“Lulu”), biting her in the
head, while her sister, Valentina Pietroiacovo (“Valentina”) was present. (SAC
¶¶ 16–19.) Plaintiffs allege that at the time of the incident, Lulu and
Valentina were guests in the Gruens’ house, and playing with other children in
the Gruens’ garage; the subject dog was in the garage and tied to a cord that
he subsequently escaped. (SAC ¶ 16–17.) Plaintiffs allege that Defendant had
prior notice of the dog’s dangerous condition, based on two incidents in 2016
and 2018.
 
Plaintiffs allege that Defendant Palisades Homeowners Association #3
(“HOA”), which is the homeowner’s association in the community where Plaintiffs
and the Gruens live, breached its duty of care to Plaintiffs “both by failing
to enforce its own CC&Rs to abate the nuisance, enforce remedial measures,
or otherwise mitigate the danger posed by the pit bull.” (SAC ¶ 46.) Plaintiffs
allege Defendant could have warned the community, imposed restrictions on the
dog, or sought a preliminary injunction. (Id. ¶ 46.)
 
Against the Gruens, Plaintiffs assert a cause of action for strict
liability. Against the Gruens and HOA, Plaintiffs allege causes of action for negligence,
negligent infliction of emotional distress, premises liability, and public and
private nuisance. The negligence and premises liability causes of action are
asserted by Plaintiff Lulu only. The negligent infliction of emotional distress
is asserted by Plaintiff Valentina only. The public and private nuisance
actions are asserted by all Plaintiffs.
 
The SAC also seeks a permanent injunction for the Gruens to comply
with Los Angeles County Code 10.37.140. 
 
On January 4, 2024, the Court denied HOA’s motion for summary
judgment. 
 
On August 6, 2024, Defendant Gruens filed a notice of settlement with
Plaintiffs for $1,300,000 and an application for determination of good faith
settlement.
 
On August 26, 2024, HOA filed the instant motion contesting the good
faith determination. Plaintiffs and Gruens oppose, and HOA replies. 
 
LEGAL
STANDARD 
 
Under section 877.6 of the Code of Civil Procedure, “[a] determination by
the court that [a] settlement was made in good faith shall bar any other joint
tortfeasor . . . from any further claims against the settling tortfeasor .
. . for equitable comparative contribution, or partial or comparative
indemnity, based on comparative negligence or comparative fault.” (Code Civ.
Proc. § 877.6 (c).) Any party to an action may move for an order
determining whether a settlement between the plaintiff and one or more alleged
tortfeasors or co-obligors was made in good faith. (Code Civ. Proc., § 877.6,
subd. (a)(1).) “The party asserting the lack of good faith shall have the burden of
proof on that issue.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 877.6, subd. (d).) 
 
In City of Grand View Terrace v. Superior Court
(1987) 192 Cal.App.3d 1251, 1261, the court provided the following guidance
regarding a motion for a good faith settlement determination: 
 
If the good
faith settlement is contested, section 877.6, subdivision (d), sets forth a
workable ground rule for the hearing by placing the burden of proving the lack
of good faith on the contesting party. Once there is a showing made by the
settlor of the settlement, the burden of proof on the issue of good faith
shifts to the nonsettlor who asserts that the settlement was not made in good
faith. If contested, declarations by the nonsettlor should be filed which in many cases could require the
moving party to file responsive counterdeclarations to negate the lack of good faith asserted by the nonsettling contesting
party. 
 
(192 Cal.App.3d 1251, 1260-1261 [citation omitted].) 
 
Section 877.6 requires “that the courts review [settlement] agreements
made under its aegis to insure that the settlements appropriately balance the .
. . statute’s dual objectives” (i.e., providing an “equitable sharing of costs
among the parties at fault” and encouraging parties to resolve their disputes
by way of settlement.) (Tech-Bilt, Inc. v.
Woodward-Clyde & Associates (1985) 38 Cal.3d 488, 494 (hereafter, Tech-Bilt).) In
Tech-Bilt, the court set forth the factors to consider when determining
whether a settlement is made in good faith. The Tech-Bilt factors are:
(1) a rough approximation of plaintiff’s total recovery and the settlor’s
proportionate liability; (2) the amount paid in settlement; (3) the allocation
of settlement proceeds among plaintiffs; (4) a recognition that a settlor
should pay less in settlement than he would if he were found liable after a
trial; (5) the financial conditions and insurance policy limits of settling
defendants; and (6) the existence of collusion, fraud, or tortious conduct
aimed to injure the interests of the non-settling defendants. (Tech-Bilt,
supra, 38 Cal.3d at p. 498-501.) Not every factor will apply in every case.
(Dole Food Co., Inc. v. Sup.Ct. (Shell Oil Co.) (2015) 242
Cal.4th 894, 909.) 
 
“ ‘A determination as to the good faith of a settlement, within the
meaning of section 877.6, necessarily requires the trial court to examine and
weigh a number of relevant factors, [fn. omitted] one of the most important of
which is the settling party's proportionate liability.’ [citation.] If ‘there
is no substantial evidence to support a critical assumption as to the nature
and extent of a settling defendant's liability, then a determination of good
faith based upon such assumption is an abuse of discretion.’” (Mattco Forge, Inc. v. Arthur Young & Co. (1995) 38 Cal.App.4th 1337, 1350.)
 
However, the rule in Tech-Bilt
that the settlement figure must not be grossly disproportionate to what a
reasonable person at the time of settlement would estimate the settling
defendant’s liability to be, has an exception. “[B]ad faith is not established
merely by a showing that a settling defendant with limited ability to satisfy a
judgment will pay less than his or her theoretical proportionate share: ‘Such a
rule would unduly discourage settlements. “For the damages are often
speculative, and the probability of legal liability therefor is often uncertain
or remote. And even where the claimant's damages are obviously great, and the
liability therefor certain, a disproportionately low settlement figure is often
reasonable in the case of a relatively insolvent, and uninsured, or
underinsured, joint tortfeasor.” [Citation.]’” (Schmid v. Superior Court (1988)
205 Cal.App.3d 1244, 1248 [quoting Tech-Bilt, supra, 38 Cal.3d at
499]; see also City of Grand Terrace v. Superior Court (1987) 192
Cal.App.3d 1251, 1264 [“The wealth or non-wealth of the settling defendant is a
factor for the trial court to consider under Tech-Bilt.”].) 
 
“All affidavits relied upon as probative must state evidentiary facts;
they must show facts and circumstances from which the ultimate fact sought to
be proved may be deduced by the court. [citation.] Affidavits or declarations
setting forth only conclusions, opinions or ultimate facts are to be held
insufficient; even an expert's opinion cannot rise to the dignity of
substantial evidence if it is unsubstantiated by facts. [citation.]” (Greshko v. County of Los Angeles (1987) 194 Cal.App.3d 822, 834.)
 
“The party asserting the lack of good faith . . . [is] permitted to
demonstrate, if he can, that the settlement is so far ‘out of the ballpark’ in
relation to [the above] factors as to be inconsistent with the equitable
objectives of [Section 877.6]. Such a demonstration would establish that the
proposed settlement was not a ‘settlement made in good faith’ within the terms
of section 877.6.” (Tech-Bilt, supra, 38 Cal.3d at pp. 499–500.)
 
DISCUSSION
 
            Here, the Gruens and Plaintiff have
settled for a total amount of $1,300,000. The settlement is for a release of
claims, except for Plaintiff’s right to seek an injunction. Of that amount, Lulu
will receive $650,000, Valentina will receive $350,000, and Michael
Pietroiacovo and Poppy Webster will receive $350,000. Each side will bear their
own attorney fees and costs. 
 
HOA argues the Gruens bear the primary responsibility for the dog
attack and as such the settlement amount is disproportionate to their
liability. However, no evidence is presented regarding a rough approximation of
Plaintiffs’ total recovery and the Gruens’ proportionate liability. Instead,
HOA only argues that Plaintiffs argued that the damages “could have been
significantly higher.” (Motion at p. 8.) This is not evidence of an
approximation of Plaintiffs’ total recovery. Moreover, one of the factors that
the Court must consider is a recognition that a settlor should pay less in
settlement than he would if he were found liable after a trial.
 
HOA also argues that the allocation to Plaintiffs Poppy Webster and
Michael Pietroiacovo is disproportionate because $162,500 for nuisance claims
“represents a gross windfall.” (Motion at p. 9.) HOA further argues that
neither parent has alleged claims for NIED, and therefore any allocation to
either parent for emotional distress is without basis. (Motion at p. 9.) Again,
HOA presents no evidence regarding a rough approximation of their recovery.
(See Smith v. County of Los Angeles (1989) 214 Cal.App.3d 266, 287-88
[“It is settled that, regardless of whether the occupant of land has sustained
physical injury, he may recover damages for the discomfort and annoyance of
himself and the members of his family and for mental suffering occasioned by
fear for the safety of himself and his family when such discomfort or suffering
has been proximately caused by a trespass or a nuisance.”].)
 
HOA next argues that the Gruens are claiming this settlement
represents their full insurance policy limits. (Motion, 10.) However, HOA
argues there has been no discovery of the Gruen’s financial condition, and
infers they have assets since their property within the HOA is estimated at
$1.3 million. As a result, HOA requests a continuance to discover more
information about the Gruens’ financial information.
 
However, HOA does not discuss the remaining factors, including
collusion or fraud. Therefore, even if the Gruens had additional assets, HOA
has not shown that this would make the settlement amount unreasonable. Therefore,
HOA fails to meet its burden to show that the settlement is so far out of the
ballpark. 
 
 
CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
 
Therefore, the motion to Contest Application for Determination of Good
Faith Settlement is DENIED.  
 
Moving party shall give notice of the Court’s order and file a proof
of service of such.