 Case Number:  22STCV05640    Hearing Date:   October 2, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


October
  2, 2024




CASE NUMBER:


22STCV05640




MOTIONS:  


Motion
  for Summary Judgment




MOVING PARTY:


Defendant Ray’s Paving Solutions, Inc.   




OPPOSING PARTY:


Plaintiff
  Bryan Hutchinson 



 
MOVING PAPERS
 
1.     Notice of Motion and Motion for Summary
Judgment; Memorandum of Points and Authorities
2.     Separate Statement of Undisputed Material
Facts
3.     Request for Judicial Notice
4.     Compendium of Exhibits in Support
5.     Declaration of Daniel E. Webber In Support
6.     Compendium of Evidence in Support 
 
OPPOSITION PAPERS
1.     Opposition of Plaintiff; Memorandum of Points
and Authorities
2.     Separate Statement
3.     Evidentiary Objections 
4.     Declaration of Plaintiff in Opposition 
 
REPLY PAPERS
1.     Defendant’s Reply
2.     Defendant’s Objections to Evidence
3.     Declaration of Daniel E. Webber
 
BACKGROUND
 
On February 15, 2022,
Plaintiff Bryan Hutchinson (“Plaintiff”) filed a complaint against Defendant
Ray’s Paving Solutions, Inc. (“Defendant”) for negligence. Plaintiff alleges
that on September 1, 2021, Defendant negligently paved the entire street of
Corvo Way and caused water to drain and cause damage to Plaintiff’s property.
(Complaint, 4.) 
 
Defendant now moves for summary judgment, arguing that liability is
precluded by the Completed and Accepted Doctrine. Plaintiff opposes and
Defendant replies. 
. 
LEGAL
STANDARD
 
“[T]he
party moving for summary judgment bears the burden of persuasion that there is
no triable issue of material fact and that he is entitled to judgment as a
matter of law[.] There is a triable issue of material fact if, and only if, the
evidence would allow a reasonable trier of fact to find the underlying fact in
favor of the party opposing the motion in accordance with the applicable
standard of proof.”¿(Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th
826, 850.) “A motion for summary adjudication shall be granted only if
it completely disposes of a cause of action, an affirmative defense, a claim
for damages, or an issue of duty.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (f)(1).) ¿“[T]he party moving for summary judgment bears an initial
burden of production to make a prima facie showing of the nonexistence of any
triable issue of material fact; if he carries his burden of production, he
causes a shift, and the opposing party is then subjected to a burden of
production of his own to make a prima facie showing of the existence of a triable
issue of material fact.” (Ibid.; Smith v. Wells Fargo Bank, N.A.
(2005) 135 Cal.App.4th 1463, 1474 [summary judgment standards held by Aguilar
apply to summary adjudication motions].)  Further, in line with Aguilar
v. Atlantic Richfield Co., “[o]n a motion for summary adjudication, the
trial court has no discretion to exercise.  If a triable issue of material
fact exists as to the challenged causes of action, the motion must be denied.
If there is no triable issue of fact, the motion must be granted.” (Fisherman's
Wharf Bay Cruise Corp. v. Superior Court (2003) 114 Cal.App.4th 309, 320.) .)  “The function of the pleadings in a motion
for summary judgment is to delimit the scope of the issues; the function of the
affidavits or declarations is to disclose whether there is any triable issue of
fact within the issues delimited by the pleadings.”  (Juge v. County of Sacramento (1993)
12 Cal.App.4th 59, 67, citing FPI Development, Inc. v. Nakashima (1991)
231 Cal. App. 3d 367, 381-382.) 
 
“On a summary judgment motion, the court must therefore
consider what inferences favoring the opposing party a factfinder could
reasonably draw from the evidence. While viewing the evidence in this manner,
the court must bear in mind that its primary function is to identify issues
rather than to determine issues.  Only when the inferences are
indisputable may the court decide the issues as a matter of law. If the
evidence is in conflict, the factual issues must be resolved by trial.” (Binder
v. Aetna Life Ins. Co. (1999) 75 Cal.App.4th 832, 839 [cleaned up].) 
Further, “the trial court may not weigh the evidence in the manner of a
factfinder to determine whose version is more likely true.  Nor may the
trial court grant summary judgment based
on the court's evaluation of credibility.” (Id. at p. 840 [cleaned up];
see also Weiss v. People ex rel. Department of Transportation (2020) 9
Cal.5th 840, 864 [“Courts deciding motions for summary judgment or summary
adjudication may not weigh the evidence but must instead view it in the light
most favorable to the opposing party and draw all reasonable inferences in
favor of that party”].)        
 
JUDICIAL
NOTICE
 
The Court denies Defendant’s request for judicial notice.  
 
EVIDENTIARY
OBJECTIONS
 
The Court declines to rule on Plaintiff’s objections as they have no
effect on the ruling herein. 
 
The Court overrules Defendant’s objections numbers 1 through 8.
 
DISCUSSION
Negligence 
The
elements of a cause of action for negligence are: (1) a duty on the part of
defendant toward plaintiff; (2) defendant’s breach of that duty; and (3) harm
to the plaintiff caused by that breach. (Kesner v. Superior Court (2016) 1 Cal.5th 1132, 1142.) 
Completed and
Accepted Doctrine
Under the “completed and accepted” doctrine, “when a
contractor completes work that is accepted by the owner, the contractor is not
liable to third parties injured as a result of the condition of the work, even
if the contractor was negligent in performing the contract, unless the defect in
the work was latent or concealed.”  (Nieman v. Leo A. Daly Co.
(2012) 210 Cal.App.4th 962, 969 [citations and alterations omitted].)  The
rationale for this doctrine is that “an owner has a duty to inspect the work
and ascertain its safety, and thus the owner's acceptance of the work shifts
liability for its safety to the owner, provided that a reasonable inspection
would disclose the defect.” (Id. [citations omitted].)   
 
This doctrine only applies to patent defects, not latent
defects.  (Sanchez v. Swinerton & Walberg Co. (1996) 47
Cal.App.4th 1461, 1467.)  “If an owner, fulfilling the duty of inspection,
cannot discover the defect, then the owner cannot effectively represent to the
world that the construction is sufficient; he lacks adequate information to do
so.”  (Id.)  Therefore, the liability of a contractor for
negligence depends on whether the defect is latent.  (See id. at
1470.) “In the context of a patent defect, the word ‘patent’ ‘refers to
the patency of danger and not merely to exterior visibility.’” (Id. at
1470-71 [finding that the pouring of concrete on a stairway landing allowed
water to pool and was a patent danger as a matter of law because “as a matter
of ordinary prudence, one would test whether water accumulated on the uncovered
landings of stairways into buildings”].) 
 
The basis for this doctrine is that “an owner has a duty to
inspect the work and ascertain its safety, and thus the owner's acceptance of
the work shifts liability for its safety to the owner, provided that a
reasonable inspection would disclose the defect.”  (Jones v. P.S. Dev.
Co. (2008) 166 Cal. App. 4th 707, 712, overruled on other grounds in Reid
v. Google, Inc. (2010) 50 Cal.4th 512, 532.) 
 
Analysis
 
Based on the evidence and arguments set forth by both
parties, it appears undisputed that Defendant repaved a private road (Corvo
Way) that is located behind Plaintiff’s property. Plaintiff’s property is
down-hill from the road. It appears that after a rainy season in 2021, water
traveled from the road and down the hill into Plaintiff’s property below,
causing damage. 
Defendant
sets forth the following facts:
-       
During
or around June 2021, Paul McGlothlin, on behalf of himself and the other
Contracting Neighbors, contacted Raymond Alonzo, who owns and operates Ray’s
Paving Solutions, Inc., to request an estimate for repaving Corvo Way in
Topanga, CA. (UMF 6.) 
-       
On
or around June 15 and 22, 2021, Ray provided estimates proposing the
application of an overlay, or fresh surface coating, of asphalt on Corvo Way. (UMF
7.) 
-       
On
or around June 18, 2021, Paul McGlothlin emailed Ray to request that the
proposals include the language “that the natural/existing drainage will be
followed during the resurfacing.” (UMF 8.) 
-       
On
or around June 22, 2021, Ray’s estimates were updated to explicitly state “The
natural/existing drainage will be followed during the resurfacing.” (UMF 9.) 
-       
The
Contracting Neighbors contracted with Ray to resurface Corvo Way with explicit
instructions to follow the natural/existing drainage during the resurfacing.
(UMF 10.) 
-       
At
some time after June 22, 2021, Ray began and completed work to resurface Corvo
Way.
-       
The
work Ray performed was the installation of an overlay cap, which is the
application of asphalt on top of existing asphalt. (UMF 14.) 
-       
Ray
performed the repaving work according to the proposals submitted for an overlay
cap. (UMF 15.) 
-       
Ray
did not perform any work beyond the work he contracted to do for Contracting
Neighbors, including grading or leveling of Corvo Way. (UMF 16.)
-       
After
the resurfacing of Corvo Way was completed, the Contracting Neighbors used the repaved
road to come and go from their respective homes. (UMF 17.) 
-       
No
Contracting Neighbor has ever contacted Ray to complain about his work to
repave Corvo Way, nor has any Contracting Neighbor requested Ray perform
further work on Corvo Way. (UMF 20.) 
Defendant
contends that Plaintiff argues the destruction of the curbs along the road allowed
water to flow into his property. (Motion, 13.) Defendant also appears to argue
that the absence of the curbs was clear after its work was complete, showing
that the work was accepted since people began using the road.  
In
opposition, Plaintiff argues the curbs are irrelevant, and that the “defective
subsurface conditioning, grading, and impervious materials used by the
Defendant in its work on the roadway and Plaintiff’s property, without
Plaintiff’s consent, authorization, acceptance, or approval, caused” massive
flooding at Plaintiff’s home. (Opp., 7.) 
            Plaintiff sets forth the following facts:
-       
Corvo
Way runs from one end of Plaintiff’s Property to the other, approximately 350
linear feet in total. Part of Corvo Way is situated on Plaintiff’s Property,
inside Plaintiff’s Property line, and Plaintiff legally owns a portion of the
Corvo Way road itself. (PAMF 30.) 
-       
Defendant
conducted work, including paving, on Plaintiff’s own Property, on Corvo Way,
without Plaintiff’s consent or authorization. 
(PAMF 35.) 
-       
The
work conducted by Defendant on Corvo Way and Plaintiff’s Property was never
completed. (PAMF 37.)
-       
Because
the work that Defendant conducted consisted of paving, where impervious
materials are placed over the earth, reasonable inspection would not show what
drainage or grading measures were effected to reasonably ensure proper and safe
drainage of water and debris throughout the community, including Plaintiff’s
Property. (PAMF 49.)
-       
Only
after further investigation, as a professional and expert in the fields of
engineering, grading, and paving, did Plaintiff discover that Defendant paved
without grading any of the road bed underneath the paving, and without
providing proper and reasonable subsurface drainage, which resulted in the
massive flooding conditions, with stormwater and debris “sheeting” down the
inappropriately graded roadway and encroaching on Plaintiff’s Property causing
a great deal of damage to the community and Plaintiff’s Property. (PAMF 51.)
-       
That
Defendant did not regrade the pitch of the road bed prior to performance of
work on Corvo Way and Plaintiff’s Property is a latent defect that caused
substantial injury since the defect itself was hidden under the pavement and
therefore not reasonably apparent to anyone. (PAMF 55.)
Plaintiff
first argues the completed and accepted doctrine cannot apply since Defendant
has failed to show who the “owners” of the project were. Plaintiff claims the
work was done on his property, but that he did not consent to it. In reply,
Defendant argues this is irrelevant because there is an easement to the road,
and as a result, the neighbors who hired Defendant have an interest in it.
(Reply, 3.) 
Assuming
the neighbors were the “owners” of the work, and accepted the completed
project, the Court finds a triable issue of fact regarding whether the alleged
defect was latent. Defendant does not explain how the defect alleged, the paving
of the road at a particular pitch with particular materials, could be detected
by the average person. Although Defendant’s estimate/proposal for the work does
state that “[t]he natural/existing drainage will be followed during the
resurfacing”, Defendant does not establish that as a matter of law an average
person could test that upon reasonable inspection.[1]
(Def., Exh. J.) Therefore, the motion for summary judgment is denied. 
CONCLUSION AND
ORDER
 
Based on the foregoing, Defendant Ray’s Paving Solutions,
Inc.’s Motion for Summary Judgment is DENIED. 
 
            Defendant
is ordered to give notice of this ruling and file a proof of service of such. 
 
 


