 Case Number:  23STCV06764    Hearing Date:   October 2, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


October
  2, 2024




CASE NUMBER:


23STCV06764




MOTIONS:  


Motion
  to Reopen Fact Discovery for the Limited Purpose of Allowing Independent
  Medical Examinations of Plaintiffs




MOVING PARTY:


Defendant Target Corporation  




OPPOSING PARTY:


Plaintiff
  Brayden Medina Molina



 
 
BACKGROUND
 
On March 28, 2023, Plaintiffs Brayden Medina Molina
(“Molina”) and Teresa Molina Gallegos filed a complaint against Defendants
Target Corporation, Watermark Security Group, Inc., Brookfield Properties (USA)
LLC, and Does 1 to 50. 
 
Also on March 28, 2023, Plaintiff Joo Hye Song (“Song”)
filed a complaint against the same Defendants, asserting negligence and
premises liability causes of action (case number 23STCV06788). 
 
On March 7,
2024, pursuant to stipulation, the Court consolidated the two cases of
Plaintiffs Brayden Medina Molina, Teresa Molina, and Joo Hye Song
(collectively, “Plaintiffs”) and set a preferential trial date under Code of
Civil Procedure section 36(b) for October 31, 2024. (Order, 3/7/24.) 
 
Defendant
Target Corporation (“Defendant”) now moves to reopen fact discovery for the
limited purpose of conducting independent medical examinations of Plaintiffs
Molina and Song.[1]
Plaintiffs oppose and Target replies. 
 
LEGAL
STANDARD 
 
“On motion of any party, the court may grant leave to
complete discovery proceedings, or to have a motion concerning discovery heard,
closer to the initial trial date, or to reopen discovery after a new trial date
has been set.¿ This motion shall be accompanied by a meet and confer
declaration under Section 2016.040.”¿ (Code Civ. Proc., section 2024.050, subd.
(a).)¿ 
¿¿ 
“In exercising its discretion to grant or deny this motion,
the court shall take into consideration any matter relevant to the leave
requested, including, but not limited to, the following: (1) The necessity and
the reasons for the discovery.¿ (2) The diligence or lack of diligence of the
party seeking the discovery or the hearing of a discovery motion, and the
reasons that the discovery was not completed or that the discovery motion was
not heard earlier.¿ (3) Any likelihood that permitting the discovery or hearing
the discovery motion will prevent the case from going to trial on the date set,
or otherwise interfere with the trial calendar, or result in prejudice to any
other party.¿ (4) The length of time that has elapsed between any date
previously set, and the date presently set, for the trial of the action.”¿
(Code Civ. Proc., section 2024.050, subd. (b)(1)-(4).)¿¿¿ 
 
“The court shall impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7
(commencing with Section 2023.010) against any party, person, or attorney who
unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to extend or to reopen discovery,
unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial
justification or that other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction
unjust.”¿ (Code Civ. Proc., section 2024.050, subd. (c).)¿¿¿ 
 
MEET
AND CONFER
 
The Declaration of Jessica Farley states the parties met and conferred
on September 23, 2024 and were unable to reach an agreement. (Farley Decl. ¶
13.) 
 
DISCUSSION
 
Plaintiffs
are claiming physical injuries from stab wounds, and mental and emotional
injuries such as post-traumatic stress, fear, and anxiety.  
 
Defendant argues it did not seek these independent medical
examinations (“IME”) earlier because its co-defendants had agreed to share
damages experts. Defendant contends the last day to timely notice IMEs was
August 30, 2024. In the time leading up to this, Plaintiffs settled with the
remaining defendants. Defendant argues it had no advanced knowledge that the
parties were in settlement talks. As a result, Defendant believed the other
co-defendants were leading the IME scheduling. 
 
Defendant argues it was diligent in seeking these IMEs once it
realized the other co-defendants had settled, and met and conferred with Song’s
counsel on September 5, 2024 and discussed Molina’s IME on September 18, 2024. 
 
In opposition, Plaintiffs contend Defendant learned of the settlement
on August 23, 2024, when Plaintiff’s counsel called Defendant’s counsel.
(Glassman Decl. ¶ 4.) Plaintiffs argue reopening discovery would be prejudicial
since the new information from the IMEs could delay their expert opinions. Plaintiffs
admit however, that Defendant has proposed September 26 or 27th to conduct
Song’s neuropsychological IME. These dates were ultimately rejected since Song
lives in South Korea. 
 
Viewing this evidence, the Court finds that the necessity of the IMEs is
high. Although Target could have acted more diligently, Target represents that
it has experts who can complete the medical examinations and make themselves
available for deposition in time for trial.
 
The Court grants the motion to reopen discovery for the limited
purpose of conducting the IMEs of Molina and Song, but only to the extent
Target is able to complete the discovery by the current trial date, including
completing the medical examinations and deposing the experts.
 
The Court declines to award sanctions, finding that Plaintiffs acted
with substantial justification.
 
CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
 
Accordingly, Defendant’s
motion to Reopen Fact Discovery for the Limited Purpose of Allowing Independent
Medical Examinations of Plaintiffs is GRANTED. 
 
Defendant to provide notice and file a proof of service of such. 


