 Case Number:  23STCV02924    Hearing Date:   October 2, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


October
  2, 2024




CASE NUMBER:


23STCV02924




MOTIONS:  


(1)
  Motion for Order Deeming Admitted Truth of Facts
(2)
  Motion Compelling Responses to Form Interrogatories
(3)
  Motion Compelling Responses to Special Interrogatories
(4)
  Motion Compelling Responses to Request for Production




MOVING PARTY:


Plaintiff Lilia Jimenez Cervantes




OPPOSING PARTY:


Defendant Andy Apelian Anteranik 



 
BACKGROUND
 
 Plaintiff Lilia Jimenez Cervantes (“Plaintiff”)
now moves for an order to deem admitted Requests for Admission, Set One and to
compel verified responses to Form Interrogatories,
Set One, Special Interrogatories, Set One, and Request for Production,
Set One propounded on Defendant Andy Apelian
Anteranik (“Defendant”). Plaintiff seeks monetary sanctions. Defendant
opposes. No reply has been filed. 
 
LEGAL
STANDARD
 
Requests
for Admission
 
Where there has
been no timely response to a request for admission under Code of Civil
Procedure section 2033.010, the propounding party may move for an order that
the genuineness of any documents and the truth of any matters specified in the
requests be deemed admitted, as well as for a monetary sanction.¿ (Code of Civ.
Proc., § 2033.280, subd. (b).)¿ The party who failed to respond waives any
objections to the demand, unless the court grants that party relief from the
waiver, upon a showing that the party (1) has subsequently served a
substantially compliant response, and (2) that the party’s failure to respond
was the result of mistake, inadvertence, or excusable neglect.¿ (Code of Civ.
Proc., § 2033.280, subds. (a)(1)-(2).)¿ The court “shall” grant a motion to
deem admitted requests for admissions, “unless it finds that the party to whom
the requests for admission have been directed has served, before the hearing on
the motion, a proposed response to the requests for admission that is in
substantial compliance with Section 2033.220.”¿ (Code of Civ. Proc., §
2033.280, subd. (c).)¿ 
 
Where a party
fails to provide a timely response to requests for admission, “[i]t is
mandatory that the court impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing
with Section 2023.010) on the party or attorney, or both, whose failure to
serve a timely response to requests for admission necessitated this motion.”¿ (Code
Civ. Proc., § 2033.280, subd. (c).) 
 
Interrogatories
 
If a party to whom interrogatories are directed fails to
serve a timely response, the propounding party may move for an order compelling
responses. (Code Civ. Proc. § 2030.290 (b).) Failure to timely respond waives
all objections, including privilege and work product, unless “[t]he party has
subsequently served a response that is in substantial compliance” and “[t]he
party’s failure to serve a timely response was the result of mistake,
inadvertence, or excusable neglect.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.290 (a)(1),
(a)(2).) The statute contains no time limit for a motion to compel where no
responses have been served and no meet and confer is required when a party does
not respond to discovery requests. All that need be shown in the moving papers
is that a set of interrogatories was properly served on the opposing party,
that the time to respond has expired, and that no response of any kind has been
served. (Leach v. Superior Court (1980) 111 Cal.App.3d 902,
905-906.)  
 
If a motion to
compel responses is filed, the Court shall impose a monetary sanction against
the losing party “unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction acted
with substantial justification or that other circumstances make the imposition
of the sanction unjust.” (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 2030.290 (c).) Further, “[t]he
court may award sanctions under the Discovery Act in favor of a party who files
a motion to compel discovery, even though no opposition to the motion was
filed, or opposition to the motion was withdrawn, or the requested discovery
was provided to the moving party after the motion was filed.” (Cal. Rules of
Court, rule 3.1348(a). 
 
Requests for Production 
 
Under Code of Civil Procedure Section 2031.300, if a party
fails to serve a timely response to a demand for inspection, the party making
the demand may move for an order compelling response to the demand. (Code Civ.
Pro § 2031.300 (b).) The party who fails to serve a timely response to a demand
for inspection waives any objection to the demand unless the court finds that
the party has subsequently served a response that is in substantial compliance
or party’s failure was the result of mistake, inadvertence, or excusable
neglect. (Code Civ. Proc. § 2031.300 (a)(1)- (2).)  
 
Courts shall impose a monetary sanction against any party
who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel a response to a demand
for inspection unless the party acted with substantial justification or other
circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust. (Code Civ. Proc. §
2031.300 (c).) Further, “[t]he court may award sanctions under the Discovery
Act in favor of a party who files a motion to compel discovery, even though no
opposition to the motion was filed, or opposition to the motion was withdrawn,
or the requested discovery was provided to the moving party after the motion
was filed.” (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1348(a).) 
 
 
DISCUSSION
 
Here, Plaintiff asserts that she served Requests for
Admission, Set One, Form Interrogatories, Set One, Special Interrogatories, Set
One, and Request for Production, Set One on Defendant
on June 19, 2024. (Yadegari Decl. ¶ 2, Exh. 1.) Responses were due July 22,
2024. (Id. ¶ 3.) Since then, no responses have been filed. 
 
In opposition, Defendant argues he will serve verified
responses to the written discovery before the hearing, and as a result, the
motions are moot. Additionally, Defendant’s counsel states that Plaintiff
granted extensions until August 27, 2024. (LaFranchi Decl. ¶ 6.) On August 19,
2024, Defendant’s counsel started trial on a different matter. By mistake, she
did not calendar the August 27, 2024 deadline, and also believed she could
obtain another extension. However, Defendant’s counsel states that due to her
busy trial schedule she did not ask Plaintiff for an extension. On September 2,
2024, Plaintiff filed the instant motion. Defendant’s counsel argues the
extensions were due to scheduling issues with Defendant and difficulty
communicating; counsel requires an interpreter to speak to Defendant. As a
result, Defendant’s counsel argues she did not act in bad faith in failing to
serve timely responses. 
 
The Court notes Defendant has not filed copies of the
discovery responses. It appears that as of the filing of the opposition,
responses have not been served. Therefore, the Court conditionally grants the
motion to deem admitted and motions to compel, unless Defendant shows at the
hearing on this matter that responses were served. Additionally, responses to
Request for Admissions must be presented to the Court for it to determine they
are substantially compliant. 
 
Plaintiff requests $1,875 in monetary
sanctions for each of the four motions, against Defendant and his counsel of
record, representing an hourly rate of $375. Defendant has not shown substantial
justification or that the imposition of sanctions would be unjust. Therefore,
the Court finds sanctions are warranted because Defendant has failed to timely
respond. However, the amount requested is excessive due to the type of motions
at issue, the lack of reply, and the fact counsel can appear at the hearing
remotely. Therefore, the Court awards sanctions in the amount of $1,500 (1 hour
of attorney time to file and appear at the hearing, for each of the four motions).
 
CONCLUSION AND
ORDER
 
Accordingly, Plaintiff’s Motion to deem admitted Request
for Admissions, Set One is conditionally GRANTED. Plaintiff’s Motions to Compel
Form Interrogatories, Set One, Special Interrogatories, Set One, and Request
for Production, Set One are conditionally GRANTED. Defendant
Andy Apelian Anteranik shall serve verified responses without objections within 7
days. 
 
The Court further
GRANTS Plaintiff’s request for monetary sanctions against Defendant and his
attorney of record, jointly and severally, in the reduced amount of $1,500.00. Said monetary sanctions are to be paid to
counsel for Plaintiff within 30 days of the date of this order. 
 
Plaintiff shall
provide notice of the Court’s order and file a proof of service of such.  
 