 Case Number:  21STCV08319    Hearing Date:   October 2, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


October
  2, 2024




CASE NUMBER:


21STCV08319




MOTIONS:  


Motion
  for Summary Adjudication




MOVING PARTY:


Defendant Sandi Korsen




OPPOSING PARTY:


Plaintiff
  Bailey Moore    



 
MOVING PAPERS
 
1.     Motion for Summary Adjudication; Declaration
of Michael J. Lowell
2.     Separate Statement of Undisputed Material
Facts
 
OPPOSITION PAPERS
1.     Plaintiff’s Opposition
2.     Plaintiff’s Separate Statement of Undisputed
Material Facts
3.     Request for Judicial Notice
4.     Plaintiff’s Response to Defendant’s Separate
Statement
5.     Declaration of Erik Fritz in Support 
 
REPLY PAPERS
1.     Defendant’s Reply
2.     Defendant’s Evidentiary Objections
                     
BACKGROUND
 
On March 3, 2021, Plaintiff Bailey
Moore (“Plaintiff”) filed a complaint against Defendant Sandi Korsen
(“Defendant”) for negligence from a motor vehicle accident. The complaint seeks
punitive damages.
 
Plaintiff alleges that on August 7, 2019, near the intersection of
Ventura Boulevard and Libbit Avenue in Encino, Defendant struck Plaintiff while
he was riding his bicycle. 
 
Defendant now moves for summary adjudication against the punitive
damages claim.[1] Plaintiff
opposes and Defendant replies. 
 
LEGAL
STANDARD
 
“A party may move for summary adjudication as to one or more causes of
action within an action, one or more affirmative defenses, one or more claims
for damages, or one or more issues of duty, if the party contends that the
cause of action has no merit, that there is no affirmative defense to the cause
of action, that there is no merit to an affirmative defense as to any cause of
action, that there is no merit to a claim for damages, as specified in Section
3294 of the Civil Code, or that one or more defendants either owed or did not
owe a duty to the plaintiff or plaintiffs.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd.
(f)(1).) “A motion for summary adjudication shall be granted only if it completely
disposes of a cause of action, an affirmative defense, a claim for damages, or
an issue of duty.” (Id.) 
 
The function of a motion
for summary judgment or adjudication is to allow a determination as to whether
an opposing party cannot show evidentiary support for a pleading or claim and
to enable an order of summary dismissal without the need for trial. (Aguilar
v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 843.) “[T]he party
moving for summary judgment bears an initial burden of production to make a
prima facie showing of the nonexistence of any triable issue of material fact;
if he carries his burden of production, he causes a shift, and the opposing
party is then subjected to a burden of production of his
own to make a prima facie showing of the existence of a triable issue of
material fact.” (Ibid.; Smith v. Wells Fargo Bank, N.A.
(2005) 135 Cal.App.4th 1463, 1474 [summary judgment standards held by Aguilar
apply to summary adjudication motions].) 
Further, in line with Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co., “[o]n a
motion for summary adjudication, the trial court has no discretion to
exercise.  If a triable issue of material
fact exists as to the challenged causes of action, the motion must be denied.
If there is no triable issue of fact, the motion must be granted.” (Fisherman's
Wharf Bay Cruise Corp. v. Superior Court (2003) 114 Cal.App.4th 309, 320.)
 
“On a summary judgment motion, the
court must therefore consider what inferences favoring the opposing party a
factfinder could reasonably draw from the evidence. While viewing the evidence
in this manner, the court must bear in mind that its primary function is to
identify issues rather than to determine issues.  Only when the inferences are indisputable may
the court decide the issues as a matter of law. If the evidence is in conflict,
the factual issues must be resolved by trial.” (Binder v. Aetna Life Ins. Co.
(1999) 75 Cal.App.4th 832, 839 [cleaned up].) 
Further, “the trial court may not weigh the evidence in the manner of a
factfinder to determine whose version is more likely true.  Nor may the trial court grant summary
judgment based on the court's evaluation of credibility.” (Id. at p. 840
[cleaned up]; see also Weiss v. People ex rel. Department of Transportation
(2020) 9 Cal.5th 840, 864 [“Courts deciding motions for summary judgment or
summary adjudication may not weigh the evidence but must instead view it in the
light most favorable to the opposing party and draw all reasonable inferences
in favor of that party”].)  
 
JUDICIAL
NOTICE
 
The Court denies Plaintiff’s request for judicial notice of tentative
rulings, but takes judicial notice of its 4/26/24 and 7/10/24 minute orders. (Evid.
Code, § 452, subd. (d).) 
 
EVIDENTIARY
OBJECTIONS
 
The Court declines to rule on Defendant’s objections as they have no
effect on the ruling herein. 
 
DISCUSSION
 
Punitive damages may be imposed where it is proven by clear
and convincing evidence that the defendant has been guilty of oppression,
fraud, or malice.¿ (Civ. Code, § 3294, subd. (a).)¿ “Malice” is conduct
intended by the defendant to cause injury to the plaintiff or despicable
conduct which is carried on with a willful and conscious disregard of the
rights or safety of others.¿ (Civ. Code, § 3294, subd. (c)(1).)¿ “‘Punitive
damages are proper only when the tortious conduct rises to levels of extreme indifference
to the plaintiff’s rights, a level which decent citizens should not have to
tolerate.’¿ [Citation.]”¿ (Lackner v. North (2006) 135 Cal.App.4th 1188,
1210.)¿¿¿¿ 
 
“As amended to include [despicable], the [Civil Code
section 3294] plainly indicates that absent an intent to injure the plaintiff,
‘malice’ requires more than a ‘willful and conscious’ disregard of the
plaintiffs’ interests.¿ The additional component of ‘despicable conduct’ must
be found.”¿ (College Hospital Inc. v. Superior Court (1994) 8 Cal.4th
704, 725.) (emphasis added.)¿ The statute’s reference to despicable conduct
represents a “new substantive limitation on punitive damage awards.”¿ (Ibid.)¿
Despicable conduct is “conduct which is so vile, base, contemptible, miserable, wretched
or loathsome that it would be looked down upon and despised by ordinary decent
people.¿ Such conduct has been described as ‘having the character of outrage
frequently associated with crime.’”¿ (Tomaselli v. Transamerica Ins. Co.
(1994) 25 Cal.App.4th 1269, 1287.)¿ Further, “[t]here must be evidence that
defendant acted with knowledge of the probable dangerous consequences to
plaintiff’s interests and deliberately failed to avoid these consequences.”¿ (Flyer’s
Body Shop Profit Sharing Plan v. Ticor Title Ins. Co. (1986) 185 Cal.App.3d
1149, 1155.)¿ 
 
“[M]alice is the basis for assessing punitive damages for
nonintentional conduct; that is, acts performed without intent to harm.
[Citation omitted.] Nonintentional conduct comes within the definition of
malicious acts punishable by the assessment of punitive damages when a party
intentionally performs an act from which he knows, or should know, it is highly
probable that harm will result.” (Ford Motor Co. v. Home Ins. Co.¿(1981) 116
Cal.App.3d 374, 381.) A conscious disregard for the safety of others can constitute
malice if the plaintiff establishes that “the
defendant was aware of the probable dangerous consequences of his conduct, and
that he wilfully and deliberately failed to avoid those consequences.” (Taylor v. Superior Court (1979) 24 Cal.3d 890, 895–96.)
 
Allegations that a defendant exhibited a conscious
disregard for the safety of others are sufficient to show malice.  (Taylor
v. Superior Court (1979) 24 Cal.3d 890, 895-96; see also Dawes v.
Superior Court (1980) 111 Cal.App.3d 82, 90.)  To properly allege
punitive damages in a motor vehicle accident action, a plaintiff needs to
"establish that the defendant was aware of the probable dangerous
consequences of his conduct, and that he wilfully and deliberately failed to
avoid those consequences."  (Taylor, supra, 24 Cal.3d
at 895–96.) The conduct giving rise
to punitive damages must be a proximate cause of the harm inflicted upon a
plaintiff. (See CACI Instruction No. 3940 [“The purposes of punitive damages
are to punish a wrongdoer for the conduct that harmed the plaintiff and to
discourage similar conduct in the future.”].) 
 
“[A]lthough the “clear and convincing” evidentiary standard is a
stringent one, it does not impose on a plaintiff the obligation to “prove” a
case for punitive damages at summary judgment. [Citation omitted.] However,
where the plaintiff's ultimate burden of proof will be by clear and convincing
evidence, the higher standard of proof must be taken into account
in ruling on a motion for summary judgment or summary adjudication, since if a
plaintiff is to prevail on a claim for punitive damages, it will be necessary
that the evidence presented meet the higher evidentiary standard.” (American
Airlines, Inc. v. Sheppard, Mullin, Richter & Hampton¿(2002) 96
Cal.App.4th 1017, 1049.) “Summary judgment or summary adjudication on the issue
of punitive damages is proper only when no reasonable jury could find the
plaintiff's evidence to be clear and convincing proof of malice, fraud or
oppression.” (Butte Fire Cases¿(2018) 24 Cal.App.5th 1150, 1159)
(internal quotations omitted.)  
 
As an initial matter, the Court disagrees with Plaintiff’s
characterization that its denial of Defendant’s motion to strike punitive
damages on April 26, 2024, was an implied ruling on the issue of punitive
damages. (Opp., 6.) The Court denied that motion because it was untimely, and
expressly “decline[d] to address the merits of [that] motion.” (Min. Order,
4/26/24.) In addition, the Court has previously found this motion to be timely.[2] (Min. Order, 8/9/24.) The Court will therefore now address the
merits of the motion.  
 
Defendant sets forth the following facts:
 
-       
Following the accident,
Defendant obtained Plaintiff’s phone number at the scene of the accident and
wrote it down on a piece of paper. (UMF 4.) 
-       
A witness was present while
Defendant obtained Plaintiff’s phone number and in front of the witness,
Defendant provided her phone number and name. (UMF 5.) 
-       
The witness contacted first
responders and an ambulance took Plaintiff to the hospital. (UMF 6.) 
 
In opposition, Plaintiff disputes that Defendant willingly provided
her telephone number and name to Plaintiff. Plaintiff offers the following
facts:
 
-       
Defendant was moving at the time
of the collision, Plaintiff raised his hand in order for the person to stop,
Defendant did not proceed to stop, and Plaintiff actually heard the engine
going up [accelerating] right before impact. (PAMF 2.) 
-       
Plaintiff did not see any
vehicle other than Defendant’s vehicle entering or exiting the driveway prior
to the collision. (PAMF 3.) 
-       
The force of the impact flipped
Plaintiff off the bike, and he landed on the ground on his back in the street.
(PAMF 4.) 
-       
Plaintiff was knocked
unconscious and only got up when the independent witness [Sandra] came and got
him up. (PAMF 5.) 
-       
Defendant did not even roll down
her window to see if Plaintiff was okay, and that Sandra [the independent
witness] had to help him to the sidewalk. (PAMF 6.) 
-       
Plaintiff stated at his
deposition that “Sandra [the independent witness] told me that she attempted to
get the driver’s name, Sandi, and her phone number. She attempted to get those,
and what was given to her was I believe the wrong phone number. So Sandra
proceeded to take the license plate. When Sandi saw her -- saw Sandra taking
the license plate, she then drove off immediately. She took a right-hand turn
and drove off. Did not stop for the light. The light was red. Kept going.” (PAMF
7.)
 
In opposition, Plaintiff does not appear to argue that Defendant
intentionally hit him. Instead, he argues that “Defendant failed to look both
ways as she crossed the pedestrian sidewalk and crashed into Plaintiff.” (Opp.,
7.) This is also supported by Plaintiff’s single cause of action for
negligence. The punitive damages claim appears to be based on evidence
suggesting Defendant’s indifference or lack of care towards Plaintiff’s
wellbeing, and failure to wait for authorities, following the accident.
 
Based on the evidence provided, there is a dispute of fact whether
Defendant provided her contact information following the collision. It appears
undisputed that Defendant left before emergency responders or law enforcement
arrived at the scene. 
 
Defendant argues that even if the facts suggest this is a hit and
run, punitive damages cannot be recovered unless the damages were caused by the
act of fleeing. (Corenbaum v. Lampkin (2013) 215 Cal.App.4th 1308, 1340.)
In
opposition, Plaintiff relies on Pelletti v. Membrila¿(1965) 234
Cal.App.2d 606. Though Pelletti does not discuss punitive damages, the
court there found that evidence of intoxication, excessive speed, and fleeing
the scene after hitting a pedestrian, supported a finding of willful misconduct
by the jury. (Id. at 611.) However, Pelletti does not hold that a
hit and run by itself is always an act of willful misconduct; instead, the
court applied the specific facts of the case. 
 
Plaintiff
argues that making a “conscious decision” to drive away and leave “Plaintiff
injured and on the ground, with no idea whether he would be able to obtain
medical assistance,” demonstrates a conscious disregard of the safety of Plaintiff
sufficient to constitute malice. (Opp. at p. 7.) However, there is no evidence
that defendant was aware of the probable dangerous consequences of his
conduct and that he willfully and deliberately failed to avoid those
consequences. (See Taylor, supra, 24 Cal.3d at 895-96; see also Dawes
v. Superior Court (1980) 111 Cal.App.3d 82, 90 [citation omitted] [“(A)llegations
of intoxication, excessive speed, driving with defective equipment of the
running of a stop signal, without more, do not state a cause of action for
punitive damages. On the other hand, if the facts show that the defendant
intentionally drove his vehicle at a high speed into an intersection crowded
with pedestrians, or if he drove at a high speed through a crowded residential
area where children were playing in the street, a legitimate inference of
actual malice perhaps could arise. This would be particularly true if the
defendant had not been drinking, or, if drinking, he was not under the
influence to the point where he was incapable of being aware of the situation
confronting him. Under these circumstances, it reasonably might be said that
the defendant acted in such an outrageous and reprehensible manner that the
jury could infer that he knowingly disregarded the substantial certainty of
injury to others.”].) The conduct that was the alleged proximate cause of
Plaintiff’s damages was the impact. Plaintiff does not argue or present
evidence that the collision itself was with malice. Moreover, Plaintiff does
not allege or present evidence that the act of driving away contributed to his
damages.
 
Viewing
the evidence and all reasonable inferences in the light most favorable to
Plaintiff, the Court finds the absence of a triable issue of fact on the
punitive damages claim. As a result, the motion for summary adjudication
is granted. 
 
CONCLUSION AND
ORDER
 
Based on the foregoing, Defendant Sandi Korsen’s Motion for
Summary Adjudication is GRANTED.
 
            Defendant
is ordered to give notice of this ruling and file a proof of service of such. 
 
 


