  Case Number:  22STCV21788    Hearing Date:   February 6, 2024    Dept:  74 Hamrik Abrahamian v. Cedars-Sinai
Medical Center
 
Defendant’s Motion for a Protective
Order.
 
The
court considered the moving papers, opposition, and reply.
BACKGROUND
            This action arises from an
employment dispute.
            On
July 6, 2022, Plaintiff Harmik Abrahamian (Plaintiff) filed a complaint against
Defendant Cedars-Sinai Medical Center (Defendant). The complaint alleges
retaliation, disability discrimination, failure to accommodate, failure to
engage in the interactive process, wrongful discharge in violation of public
policy, and failure to allow inspection of personnel files.
            On
November 29, 2023, Plaintiff issued multiple deposition notices.
            On
January 8, 2024, Defendant filed this motion for a protective order.
LEGAL STANDARD
            “Before […] a deposition, any party,
any deponent, or any other affected natural person or organization may promptly
move for a protective order.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.420, subd. (a).) 
            “The
court, or good cause shown, may make any order that justice requires to protect
any party, deponent, or other natural person or organization from unwarranted
annoyance, embarrassment, or oppression, or undue burden and expense. This
protective order may include […] [t]hat the deposition not be taken at all.”
(Code Civ. Proc., § (b)(1).) 
DISCUSSION
            Defendant seeks a protective order that
prevents Plaintiff from taking ten depositions. To that end, Defendant argues
in part that daylong depositions of ten additional deponents would be overly
burdensome. But Plaintiff contends he is only pursuing six three-hour
depositions of the following individuals: Joi Calloway, Shady Ellaham, Ryanne
Villas, Bridgitte Brown, Karen Zaghiyan, and Gary Hoffman. Defendant also contends
the information sought in the proposed depositions is irrelevant because the deponents
were not involved in Plaintiff’s termination. Defedant’s contention misses the
mark.
            ¿
Calloway’s deposition is relevant because it aims to discover whether Calloway
used profanity in a raised voice on September 3, 2021. If Defendant declined to
discipline Calloway for doing so, Plaintiff can support his contention that Defendant’s
reason for terminating him was pretextual.
¿
Ellaham’s deposition is relevant because Ellaham witnessed the incident where
Calloway may have used profanity in a raised voice.
¿
Villas’s deposition could help Plaintiff prove he did not act unprofessionally
when he voiced his frustrations to Villas on April 2, 2021. This information is
relevant because Plaintiff has reason to believe Defendant will introduce at
trial evidence of Plaintiff’s pattern of insubordinate and unprofessional
behavior. (Soleymani Decl., ¶ 32; Ex. 27 [“Defendant will also not agree to
stipulate not to seek to introduce at trial any evidence of Plaintiff’s
well-established pattern of insubordinate and unprofessional behavior.”].)
¿
Zaghiyan’s deposition is necessary to determine the extent to which Plaintiff
acted unprofessionally when he refused to let Zaghiyan use an operating room on
May 28, 2021.
¿
Brown’s deposition is relevant because Brown overheard the May 28 exchange
between Plaintiff and Zaghiyan.
¿
Hoffman’s deposition is relevant because Hoffman investigated the May 28 interaction
between Plaintiff and Zaghiyan. Thus, Hoffman could inform the parties whether
Plaintiff followed hospital policy and acted professionally. 
            Defendant
also contends the proposed depositions are cumulative. According to Defendant,
prior deponents have already testified about the information sought. But as
Plaintiff notes, the prior deponents were not eyewitnesses to the incidents but
instead investigated the incidents after the fact. (Soleymani Decl., ¶¶ 33, 35,
37; Ex. 28, 75:1-15; Ex. 30, 120:22-121:6, 173:12-19; Ex. 32, 82:15-83:20.) Defendant
also argues Plaintiff is only pursuing the proposed depositions to harass and
annoy Defendant. The court disagrees, as the depositions seek relevant
information. Thus, Defendant has not persuaded the court that a protective
order is warranted.
Plaintiff
requests attorney’s fees as discovery sanctions. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.420,
subd. (h) [“The court shall impose a monetary sanction […] against any party,
person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion for a
protective order, unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction acted
with substantial justification or that other circumstances make the imposition
of the sanction unjust.”].) Given the relevance of the proposed depositions, Defendant’s
motion lacks substantial justification. Moreover, Plaintiff’s counsel has provided
a reasonable hourly rate and breakdown of work performed. (Soleymani Decl., ¶¶
63, 64). 
CONCLUSION
            The court denies Defendant’s motion for a protective order. The
court grants Plaintiff’s request for sanctions. Defendant shall pay Plaintiff’s
counsel $4,750 in attorney’s fees no later than March 5, 2024.
                Defendant shall give notice.