  Case Number:  22AHCV00947    Hearing Date:   April 12, 2024    Dept:  P I.        INTRODUCTION
Plaintiff Jane Doe KW alleges that she suffered
childhood sexual abuse at the hands of Defendant Kenneth Cronquist, who was employed
by Defendant Maranatha High School as a vice principal and cross-country coach.
Plaintiff alleges that Defendant Maranatha knew of complaints against Cronquist
and did not address the complaints. The Complaint states six causes of action: (1)
childhood sexual abuse, (2) intentional infliction of emotional distress, (3)
negligent failure to educate, warn or train, (4) failure to report suspected
child abuse, (5) negligent supervision of a minor and (6) negligence.
Plaintiff filed the instant motion to compel further
response to Requests for Production of Documents on January 31, 2024. Maranatha
filed an opposition on February 26, 2024. Plaintiff filed a reply on March 1,
2024. The hearing on this motion was continued to its current date of April 12,
2024 for scheduling purposes.
At
issue is the sufficiency of Maranatha’s compliance with Requests for Production
Nos. 1-2, 5-10, 13, 17, 18, 21, 24, 26, 27, 31, 34, 36-39, 43-44, 46,
propounded and served on Maranatha as Requests for Production, Set One on August
25, 2023. The motion is GRANTED.   However, the Court notes that request Nos. 17
and 34 appear to be identical.
          The Court does not find it appropriate to order monetary
sanctions. 
II.
MEET AND CONFER
Counsel
for Plaintiff, Andrew I. Chung, declares that he sent a meet and confer letter
on January 5, 2024 to Counsel for Maranatha. (Chung Decl. ¶ 4, see Exh. 3.)
Maranatha’s counsel responded on January 18, 2024. (See Exh. 4.) Parties
engaged in telephonic meet and confer sometime after January 18, 2024 and were
unable to reach a resolution. (Chung Decl. ¶¶ 5,6.)
Counsel’s
declaration is sufficient for meet and confer requirements.
III.     LEGAL
STANDARD
A. Law Governing Motions to Compel
Further
          “Any party may obtain discovery regarding any matter, not
privileged, that is relevant to the subject matter involved in the pending
action.” (CCP § 2017.010.) A
party responding to requests for inspection must either provide a statement of
compliance, represent that it lacks the ability to comply, or object. (Code
Civ. Proc. § 2031.210.) When a party propounding demands for inspection deems
responses to the responses to be incomplete or evasive, or deems objections to
be without merit, the propounding party may move for an order compelling
further response. Such motion must set forth facts showing good cause for the
discovery, be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration, and include a
separate statement. Such motion must also be made within 45 days of verified
responses or supplemental responses, or on or before any specific later date
the parties have agreed to in writing. (Code Civ. Proc. § 2031.310(a)-(c).)
          Code Civ. Proc. Section 2031.310(h) provides for the
imposition of monetary sanctions against any party who unsuccessfully makes or
opposes such a motion unless the court finds that the one subject to sanction
acted with substantial justification or that other circumstances make the
imposition of sanctions unjust.
          B. Law Governing Relevancy Objections
Code
Civ. Proc. Section 2017.010 permits a party to “obtain discovery regarding any
matter, not privileged, that is relevant to the subject matter . . . if the
matter is either itself admissible in evidence or appears reasonably calculated
to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence.” (CCP § 2017.010.) According
to a leading treatise, “For discovery purposes, information should be regarded
as ‘relevant’ to the subject matter if it might reasonably assist a party in evaluating
the case, preparing for trial, or facilitating settlement. (Gonzalez
v. Sup.Ct.  (1995) 33 CA4th 1539,
1546 (citing text); Lipton v. Sup.Ct. (1996) 48 CA4th 1599, 1611 (citing
text); Stewart v. Colonial Western Agency, Inc. (2001) 87 CA4th 1006,
1013 (citing text)]” (Weil & Brown, Cal. Practice Guide: Civil Procedure
Before Trial (The Rutter Group June 2022), ¶8:66.1.) 
          C.
Law Governing Privacy Objections
Case law has established
that several areas of an individual’s life are entitled to privacy, among them
are privacy in one’s financial records, medical records, and employment
records. This privacy interest is not absolute and must sometimes yield if a balancing
of interests so requires. Hill v. National Collegiate Athletic Assn.
(1994) 7 Cal.4th 1 sets forth the process. First, a legally protected privacy
right must be identified, in which the party has a reasonable expectation to
privacy and the threatened invasion of which is serious rather than trivial. If
these facts exist, courts must balance the invasion of that privacy with the
competing interests. “Privacy concerns are not absolute; they must be balanced
against other important interests. . . .  Invasion of a
privacy interest is not a violation of the state constitutional right to
privacy if the invasion is justified by a competing interest. Legitimate
interests derive from the legally authorized and socially beneficial activities
of government and private entities.” (Hill v. National Collegiate Athletic
Assn. (1994) 7 Cal.4th 1, 37-38.)
D. Law Governing
Overbreadth Objections
Even though relevance is
quite broad, it is not without limits. (Obregon v. Superior Court (1998)
67 Cal.App.4th 424.) Though the holding in Obregon does not directly
concern the merits of the objections, it described the discovery requests there
as “very broad” and stated that “their full scope does not appear reasonably
related to the issues in the case.” (Id. at 431.) “When discovery
requests are grossly overbroad on their face, and hence do not appear reasonably
related to a legitimate discovery need, a reasonable inference can be drawn
of an intent to harass and improperly burden.” (Ibid, bolding added.)
When that is the case, the burden is on the propounding party to “explain why
interrogatories of such breadth are proper.” (Id. at 432.) 
IV.     ANALYSIS
          A. Discovery at Issue
          At issue here are Requests for Production Nos. 1-2, 5-10,
13, 17, 18, 21, 24, 26, 27, 31, 34, 36, 37-38, 39, 43-44, 46. In response to all
the RFPs at issue, Defendant Maranatha did not produce any documents, citing
relevance, overbreadth, vagueness, ambiguity and privacy concerns. The
objections will be discussed by category rather than by RFP number. 
          Request for Production 1: KENNETH CRONQUIST’s
complete personnel file(s) and/or student teacher file from YOU.
          Request for Production 2: Any and all
DOCUMENTS regarding KENNETH CRONQUIST’s employment with YOU or the SCHOOL.
          Request for Production 5: Any documents,
memos, correspondence, emails or similar WRITINGS which contain, describe, set
forth or evidence any complaints made against KENNETH CRONQUIST while KENNETH
CRONQUIST was employed by YOU.
          Request for Production 6: Any documents,
memos, correspondence, emails or similar WRITINGS which contain, describe, set
forth or evidence any complaints made against KENNETH CRONQUIST, regardless of
date.
          Request for Production 7: Any documents,
memos, correspondence, emails or similar WRITINGS which contain, describe, set
forth or evidence any response by KENNETH CRONQUIST or by YOU to any complaints
made against KENNETH CRONQUIST.
          Request for Production 8: Any documents or
WRITINGS which contain, describe, set forth, or evidence any investigation by
YOU, or anyone acting on its behalf, into allegations of any improper behavior
between KENNETH CRONQUIST and any student.
          Request for Production 9: Any memos, emails,
correspondence or similar WRITINGS generated by YOU in response to or as a
result of KENNETH CRONQUIST leaving employment with YOU.
          Request for Production 10: Any memos, emails,
correspondence or similar WRITINGS regarding KENNETH CRONQUIST’s separation of
employment with YOU.
          Request for Production 13: Any and all
photographs YOU have of KENNETH CRONQUIST.
          Request for Production 17: Any and all
DOCUMENTS from any police department, County Sheriff’s department, district
attorney, city attorney, or any other law enforcement agency regarding an
investigation of KENNETH CRONQUIST.
          Request for Production 18: Any documents,
investigative reports, police reports, photographs, audio recordings, video
recordings and all other evidence from any criminal investigation of KENNETH
CRONQUIST.
          Request for Production 21: Any and all
DOCUMENTS regarding complaints made by any parents of students of the SCHOOL
about the ABUSER.
          Request for Production 24: Any documents,
memos, emails, or similar WRITINGS which set forth or describe any warnings,
reprimands, or counseling given to KENNETH CRONQUIST.
          Request for Production 26: All documents or WRITINGS, in unredacted form, which
discuss, relate to any potential disciplinary action against KENNETH CRONQUIST
when KENNETH CRONQUIST was employed with YOU.
          Request for Production 27: All documents or
WRITINGS, in unredacted form, which show that YOU performed any investigation
into the alleged misconduct of KENNETH CRONQUIST.
          Request for Production 31: Any and all
photographs YOU have of PLAINTIFF.
          Request for Production 34: Any and all
DOCUMENTS from any police department, County Sheriff’s department, district
attorney, city attorney, or any other law enforcement agency regarding any
investigation of KENNETH CRONQUIST.
          Request for Production 36: Any written or
recorded statements, interviews, or transcriptions or summaries of the same, or
similar WRITINGS or materials provided by any administrator, teacher, staff
member, or employee of YOU in connection with any investigation into alleged
inappropriate SEXUAL MISCONDUCT by KENNETH CRONQUIST with any student.
          Request for Production 37: Any written or
recorded statements, interviews, or transcriptions or summaries of the same, or
similar WRITINGS or materials provided by any student, former student, parent
of a student, parent of a former student, or any other third-party witness in
connection with any investigation into alleged inappropriate SEXUAL MISCONDUCT
by KENNETH CRONQUIST with any student.
          Request for Production 38: Any documents,
materials, or WRITINGS, including letters, reports, summaries, files, emails,
folders, or similar items, that were provided by YOU to any law enforcement
official or agency or any representative of the District Attorney's office at
any time regarding any investigation into alleged inappropriate SEXUAL
MISCONDUCT by KENNETH CRONQUIST with any student.
          Request for Production 39: A copy of any
photos, including class photos, showing PLAINTIFF as a student at the SCHOOL.
          Request for Production 43: Any and all
employee rosters or similar WRITINGS which contain, set forth, list, or
identify the names of administrators, teachers, coaches, employees, and/or
staff assigned to the SCHOOL during the TIME PERIOD.
          Request for Production 44: Any and all
DOCUMENTS showing the identity of YOUR superintendents during the TIME PERIOD.
          Request for Production 46: A copy of each
school yearbook for the SCHOOL during the TIME PERIOD.
           B. Relevancy Objections
          In Maranatha’s Responses to the Requests for Production, it
objects that the discovery sought is not relevant. Plaintiff urges that she is
entitled to Defendant Cronquist’s personnel and employee file, any complaints
Defendant Maranatha received about him and the other requested documents as
these documents form the crux of her case against Maranatha. (See Motion p. 6:
10-19.) The scope of discovery is broad by design. (CCP § 2017.010.) The Court
agrees that the discovery requests seek relevant information.
          The Court notes that Maranatha’s responses impermissibly
attempt to limit the scope of discovery to complaints concerning sexual
misconduct. (See Motion p. 7; see, e.g., Opposition Separate Statement p. 10:
25-28, p. 14: 21-25, p. 18: 16-19.) Maranatha does not cite any case law or
statute for this narrowing of discovery. As discovery by nature is broad, the
Court concludes that all complaints Maranatha received about Cronquist, sexual
misconduct or otherwise, are relevant and discoverable.
          In its opposition, Marantha urges that the only relevant
information is information before 1985. (Opposition p. 6: 1-6.) However, the
scope of discovery is broad by design and the Court declines to sustain an
objection based on relevancy or otherwise limit the scope of discovery without
clear explanation as to why the limitation is warranted.  
The
relevancy objection is overruled as to all RFPs at issue.
          C. Overbreadth, Ambiguity and Vagueness Objections
          To the extent that
the Court considers this objection, the Court notes that the standard for
overbreadth is ambiguity to the point of being unintelligible, which is not met
here. (Obregon v. Superior Court (1998) 67 Cal.App.4th 424, 431.) The
requests are clearly intelligible and understandable. 
D.
Privacy/ Privilege Objections
          Maranatha urges that the information sought is privileged and/or
private. (See, e.g., Motion Separate Statement, p.33: 24-26, Opposition
Separate Statement p. 3: 13-17.)[1] In her motion,
Plaintiff urges that pursuant to Hill balancing, her need for discovery
outweighs any potential privacy interest Cronquist has in the records. (Motion
p. 9: 6-18.) As an initial matter, the Court notes that an entity does not have
privacy rights and cannot assert the privacy interests of others on that
person’s behalf. 
          In support, Plaintiff cites several cases for the
proposition that discovery into private matters is allowed if the seeking party
demonstrates the relevance and significance of the information sought. (See Vinson
v. Superior Court (1987) 43 Cal.3d 833, 842; Williams v. Superior Court
(2017) 3 Cal.5th 531, 544; Davies v. Superior Court (1984) 36 Cal.3d
291, 303.) She urges that the only way for her to find out what the school knew
is through these personnel files. She also notes that Maranatha is the
exclusive holder of these records. (Motion p. 10: 3-13.)
Plaintiff
also cites Marken v. Santa Monica-Malibu Unified School District (2012)
202 Cal.App.4th 1250, 1259 for the proposition that discovery into personnel
records is permitted. Marken concerned a high school teacher who brought
an action for declaratory and injunctive relief against a school district challenging
said district’s planned disclosure of investigations revealing the teacher
violated the sexual harassment policy. (Id. at 1255.) The Court of Appeals
held that the district’s planned disclosure did not violate Marken’s right to
privacy under the California Constitution. (Id. at 1274.) Specifically,
“Under governing case law, summarized above, the public's interest in
disclosure of this information—the public's right to know—outweighs Marken's
privacy interest in shielding the information from disclosure.” (Id. at
1276.) Plaintiff cites two other cases where similar information was deemed
discoverable. (See BRV, Inc. v. Superior Court (2006) 143 Cal.App.4th
742, 757 [disclosure of misconduct report of a school district superintendent];
Lopez v. Watchtower Bible & Tract Society of New York, Inc.  (2016) 246 Cal.App.4th 566, 591-593 [Church
ordered to disclose of files pertaining to perpetrators of childhood sexual
abuse.])
          In its opposition, Marantha urges that “Plaintiff has not
specifically articulated the category of documents sought, how each is directly
relevant to a cause of action or defense, or how the information is essential
to determining the truth of the matter in dispute and to a fair resolution of the
lawsuit.” (Opposition p. 7: 14-16.) Using Maranatha’s example of RFP No. 1, the
Court concludes that “personnel file” is specific enough to let Marantha know
what is being sought. The Court finds Marantha’s attempt to distinguish
Plaintiff’s cited cases on factual differences unpersuasive. 
          As to Marantha’s argument as to the employee lists from
January 1977 to December 31, 1990, the Court finds that contact information of
employees is relevant to the action, as these other teachers and administrators
could be potential witnesses. (CCP § 2017.010 [“[d]iscovery may be obtained of
the identity and location of persons having knowledge of any discoverable
matter…”]) The Court declines to order a Belaire-West opt out notice or
a similar measure. (See Opposition p. 9: 2-11.)
          Given the nature of the case, the need for disclosure and
the inability to access these personnel records otherwise, the privacy
objection is overruled. 
          E. Burdensome Objections
          To the extent that the Court considers this objection, the
Court notes that it is not enough to state that complying with a discovery
request is burdensome but that a party must provide some evidence of the
specific burden they anticipate. In its opposition, Marantha does not appear to
be pursuing this objection any longer.
          The burdensome objections are overruled. 
F.
Compound Objections
Maranatha
additionally urges that the certain of the requests are improperly compound. (See,
e.g., Motion Separate Statement p. 33: 18.) The Court disagrees. (CCP § 2030.060(f).)
None of  the RFPs contain subparts or are
improperly compound, as clarifying the type of documents sought does not make
it compound. In its opposition, Marantha does not appear to be pursuing this
objection any longer.
This
objection is overruled.
          G. Sanctions
          Code Civ. Proc. Section 2031.310(h) provides for the
imposition of monetary sanctions against any party who unsuccessfully makes or
opposes such a motion unless the court finds that the one subject to sanction
acted with substantial justification or that other circumstances make the
imposition of sanctions unjust.
The Court finds that this
motion was neither made nor opposed in bad faith. Plaintiff and Defendant made
reasonable arguments about the scope of discovery.
IV.     CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
           Plaintiff’s motion to compel further is GRANTED.
 
          Counsel for Plaintiff to give notice
of this order.
 
Dated:  April 11, 2024                                                  JARED D. MOSES
                                                                     JUDGE
OF THE SUPERIOR COURT


