 Case Number:  22AHCV01259    Hearing Date:   April 12, 2024    Dept:  P I.        INTRODUCTION 
This action stems from a
contract to construct an ADU (accessory dwelling unit) on property owned by
Plaintiff Alan Chan. Chan contracted with Defendant Chisel & Tool to
perform the work. Chan alleges that after problems arose early on, he refused
to accept the work and Chisel & Tool abandoned the project. 
The
arbitration took place in December of 2023. The arbitrator issued her final
award on February 26, 2024, ruling that Defendant must pay Plaintiff $76,209.31.[1] 
Now
before the Court is Plaintiff’s unopposed petition to confirm the arbitration
award. As the petition is timely and all procedural requirements are met, it is
granted.     
  II.      LEGAL
STANDARD
          Code Civ. Proc. § 1288 et seq. provides that a petition to
confirm an arbitration award must be served and filed within 4 years after the
date of service of a signed copy of the award on petitioner. No petition may be
filed until at least 10 days after service of the signed copy of the award on
petition. (CCP § 1288.4.)
          Section 1286 requires courts to confirm an award unless a
competing petition identifies grounds to correct or vacate the award: “If a
petition or response under this chapter is duly served and filed, the court shall
confirm the award as made, whether rendered in this state or another state,
unless in accordance with this chapter it corrects the award and confirms it as
corrected, vacates the award or dismisses the proceeding.” (Bolding added.)
          If an award is confirmed, “Judgment shall be entered in
conformity therewith.” (CCP § 1287.4.)
  III.     DISCUSSION
          Plaintiff has timely filed this petition to confirm the
arbitration award more than 10 days after, and fewer than 4 years from, the
date a signed copy of the order on the award was served. Per the petition, the signed
award was served on February 26, 2024. (Petition p. 2 Item 9.) Plaintiff attaches
a copy of the arbitration agreement, the name of the arbitrator and the
arbitrator’s award. (Attachment 4(b) to Petition-Arbitration Agreement;
Petition p. 2 Item 6- Arbitrator’s name; Attachment 8(c) to Petition-
Arbitrator’s Award.)
Defendant
has been provided with notice of this petition; but no opposition has been
filed. Defendant has also not filed a motion to correct or to vacate the
arbitration award. 
 IV.     ORDER
          The Petition to confirm arbitration award is granted. Plaintiff
is ordered to provide notice of this order, and to lodge and serve an
appropriate proposed Judgment within 10 days. April 9, 2024 Jared D. Moses, Judge


