 Case Number:  23STCV05244    Hearing Date:   January 21, 2025    Dept:  29 Millenium Masters v. 350 South Los Angeles
Street Partnership
23STCV05244
Defendant’s Motion for Summary Judgment
Tentative
Defendant’s motion for summary judgment is denied.
Background 
On March 9, 2023, Plaintiff Millenium Masters,
Inc. (“Plaintiff”) filed a complaint against Defendant 350 South Los Angeles
Street Partnership, L.P. (“Defendant”) and Does 1 through 50, asserting causes
of action for negligence, premises liability, private nuisance, and breach of
contract, all arising out of property damage alleged sustained by Plaintiff as
a result of a fire on January 28, 2022. 
Plaintiff alleges that the damage occurred to property in premises it
leased from Defendant. 
Defendant filed an answer on May 16, 2023.
On May 14, 2024, Defendant filed this motion for summary
judgment.   The motion was set for
hearing on December 2, 2024.
On November 18, 2024, Plaintiff filed an opposition. 
On December 2, 2024, just a few hours before the hearing,
Defendant filed an untimely reply.
At the hearing on December 2, the Court continued the hearing
under the provisions of Code of Civil Procedure section 437c, subdivision (h),
and set a supplemental briefing schedule.
No supplemental briefs have been filed.
Legal Standard 
“The purpose of the law of summary
judgment is to provide courts with a mechanism to cut through the parties’
pleadings in order to determine whether, despite their allegations, trial is in
fact necessary to resolve their dispute.” (Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co.
(2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 843.) Code of Civil Procedure section 437c, subdivision
(c), “requires the trial judge to grant summary judgment if all the evidence
submitted, and ‘all inferences reasonably deducible from the evidence’ and
uncontradicted by other inferences or evidence, show that there is no triable
issue as to any material fact and that the moving party is entitled to judgment
as a matter of law.” (Adler v. Manor Healthcare Corp. (1992) 7
Cal.App.4th 1110, 1119.) “The function of the pleadings in a motion for summary
judgment is to delimit the scope of the issues; the function of the affidavits
or declarations is to disclose whether there is any triable issue of fact
within the issues delimited by the pleadings.” (Juge v. County of Sacramento
(1993) 12 Cal.App.4th 59, 67, citing FPI Development, Inc. v. Nakashima
(1991) 231 Cal.App.3d 367, 381-382.)
As to each cause of action as framed by
the complaint, a defendant moving for summary judgment or summary adjudication
must satisfy the initial burden of proof by presenting facts to show “that one
or more elements of the cause of action ... cannot be established, or that
there is a complete defense to the cause of action.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c,
subd. (p)(2); see also Aguilar, supra, 25 Cal.4th at pp. 850-851;
Scalf v. D. B. Log Homes, Inc. (2005) 128 Cal.App.4th 1510, 1520.) Once
the defendant has met that burden, the burden shifts to the plaintiff to show
that a “triable issue of one or more material facts exists as to the cause of
action or a defense thereto.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (p)(2); see also Aguilar,
supra, 25 Cal.4th at pp. 850-851.)
A plaintiff or cross-complainant moving
for summary judgment or summary adjudication must satisfy the initial burden of
proof by presenting facts to show “that there is no defense to a cause of
action if that party has proved each element of the cause of action entitling
the party to judgment on the cause of action.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd.
(p)(1).) Once the plaintiff or cross-complainant has met that burden, the
burden shift to the defendant or cross-defendant to show that a “triable issue
of one or more material facts exists as to the cause of action or a defense
thereto.” (Ibid.)
The party opposing a motion for summary
judgment or summary adjudication may not simply “rely upon the allegations or
denials of its pleadings” but must instead “set forth the specific facts
showing that a triable issue of material fact exists.” (Code Civ. Proc., §
437c, subds. (p)(1) & (p)(2). To establish a triable issue of material
fact, the party opposing the motion must produce substantial responsive
evidence. (Sangster v. Paetkau (1998) 68 Cal.App.4th 151, 166.)
Courts
“liberally construe the evidence in support of the party opposing summary
judgment and resolve doubts concerning the evidence in favor of that party.” (Dore
v. Arnold Worldwide, Inc. (2006) 39 Cal.4th 384, 389.)
Discussion
This case arises out of a
fire that damaged property on commercial premises leased by Defendant to
Plaintiff.  The parties entered into the
lease in 2010.  (Defendant’s Statement of
Undisputed Material Facts [“DSUMF”], No. 2; Defendant’s Exhibits, Exh. B.)  The written lease agreement (the “Lease”)
describes the leased premises as Unit B of 212 East Boyd Street in Los
Angeles.  (DSUMF, No. 2; Exh. B, ¶ 2.)  
The fire at issue occurred
on January 28, 2022, and started in an alley that is adjacent to the leased
premises. (DSUMF, Nos. 4-5.)  Plaintiff
presented evidence that the fire started in cardboard boxes piled up in the
alley next to the exterior wall of the leased premises.  (Merabi Decl., ¶ 20.)
Defendant does not own the
alley, but Plaintiff presented evidence that Defendant exercised some control
over the alley.  (DSUMF, No. 6; Farkenpour
Decl., ¶ 11; Merabi Decl., ¶¶ 2-4, 6-12, 14-16, 21; see also DSUMF, No. 8.)  Plaintiff also presented evidence that it had
complained to Defendant about the accumulation of trash in the alley prior to
the fire at issue.  (Merabi Decl., ¶ 2-3,
11, 14-16, 18-20.)
The Lease contains a number
of provisions that are relevant (or at least potentially relevant) to this
matter.  
Paragraph 6.2 of the Lease is
entitled “Compliance with Law” and states:
“(a) Lessor warrants to Lessee that the
Premises, in its state existing on the date that the Lease term commences, but
without regard to the use for which Lessee will use the Premises, does not
violate any covenants or restrictions of record, or any applicable building
code regulation or ordinance in effect on such Lease term commencement date. In
the event it is determined that this warranty has been violated, then shall be
the obligation of the Lessor, after written notice from Lessee, to promptly, at
Lessor's sole cost and expense, rectify any such violation. In the event Lessee
does not give to Lessor written notice of the violation of this warranty within
six months from the date that the Lease term commences, the correction of same
shall be the obligation of the Lessee at Lessee's sole cost. The warranty
contained in this paragraph 6.2(a) shall be of no force or effect if, prior to
the date of this Lease, Lessee was the owner or occupant of the Premises, and,
in such event, Lessee shall correct any such violation at Lessee's sole cost. 
(b) Except as provided in paragraph 6.2(a),
Lessee shall, at Lessee's expense, comply promptly with all applicable
statutes, ordinances, rules, regulations, orders, covenants and restrictions of
record, and requirements in effect during the term or any part of the term
hereof, regulating the use by Lessee of the Premises. Lessee shall not use nor
permit the use of the Premises in any manner that will tend to create waste or
a nuisance or, if there shall be more than one tenant in the building
containing the Premises, shall tend to disturb such other tenants.”
Paragraph 7.1 of the Lease states:
“Lessee’s Obligations.  Lessee shall keep in good order, condition
and repair the premises, and every part thereof structural and nonstructural
(whether or not such portion of the premises requiring repair, or the means of
repairing the same are reasonably readily accessible to Lessee, and whether or
not the need for such repairs occurs as a result of lessee’s use, any prior
use, the elements or age of such portion of the premises), including, without
limiting the generality of the foregoing, all plumbing, heating,
air-conditioning, (Lessee procure and maintain at Lessee’s expense, an
air-conditioning system maintenance contract,) ventilating, electrical,
lighting facilities, and equipment within the Premises, fixtures, walls
(interior and exterior), foundation, ceilings, interior and exterior floors,
windows, doors, plate glass, and skylights located within the Premises and all
landscaping, driveways, parking, lots, fences, and signs located on the
premises, and sidewalk and parkways adjacent to the Premises.”
Paragraph 7.4. of the Lease
states: 
“Lessor’s Obligations. Except for the
obligations of Lessor under Paragraph 6.2(a) and 6.3(a) (relating to Lessor's
warranty), Paragraph 9 (relating to destruction of the Premises) and under
Paragraph 14 (relating to condemnation of the Premises), it is intended by the
parties hereto that Lessor have no obligation, in any manner whatsoever, to
repair and maintain the Premises nor the building located thereon nor the
equipment therein, whether structural or non structural, all of which
obligations are intended to be that of the Lessee under Paragraph 7.1 hereof[.]
Lessee expressly waives the benefit of any statute now or hereinafter in effect
which would otherwise afford Lessee the right to make repairs at Lessor's
expense or to terminate this Lease because of Lessor’s failure to keep the
premises in good order, condition and repair.”
Paragraph 8.6 of the Lease
states:
 “Indemnity. Lessee shall indemnify and hold
harmless Lessor from and against any and all claims arising from Lessee's use
of the Premises, or from the conduct of Lessee's business or from any activity,
work or things done, permitted or suffered by Lessee in or about the Premises
or elsewhere and shall further indemnify and hold harmless Lessor from and against
any and all claims arising from any breach or default in the performance of any
obligation on Lessee's part to be performed under the terms of this Lease, or
arising from any negligence of the Lessee, or any of Lessee's agents,
contractors, or employees, and from and against all costs, attorney's fees,
expenses and liabilities incurred in the defense of any such claim or any
action or proceeding brought thereon; and in case any action or proceeding be
brought against Lessor by reason of any such claim, Lessee upon notice from
Lessor shall defend the same at Lessee's expense by counsel satisfactory to
Lessor, as a material part of the consideration to Lessor, hereby assumes all
risk of damage to property or injury to persons, in, upon or about the Premises
arising from any cause and Lessee hereby waives all claims in respect thereof
against Lessor.”
Lastly, and perhaps most
importantly, paragraph 8.7 of the Lease is entitled “Exemption of Lessor from
Liability and states:
“Lessee hereby agrees that Lessor
shall not be liable for injury to Lessee's business or any loss of income
therefrom or for damage to the goods, wares, merchandise or other property of
Lessee, Lessee's employees, invitees, customers, or any other person in
or about the Premises, nor shall Lessor be liable for injury to the person of
Lessee, Lessee's employees, agents or contractors, whether such damage or
injury is caused by or results from fire, steam, electricity, gas,
water or rain, or form the breakage, leakage, obstruction or other defects of
pipes, sprinklers, wires, appliances, plumbing, air conditioning or lighting
fixtures, or from any other cause, whether the said damage or injury
results from conditions arising upon the Premises or upon other portions of the
building of which the Premises are a part, or from other sources or places
and regardless of whether the cause of such damage or injury or the means of
repairing the same is inaccessible to Lessee, Lessor shall not be liable for
any damages arising from any act or neglect of any other tenant, if any, of the
building in which the Premises are located.”
(Emphasis added.)
In its complaint, Plaintiff
asserts four causes of action against Defendants: (1) negligence; (2) premises
liability; (3) private nuisance; and (4) breach of contract.
Defendant moves for summary
judgment on essentially three grounds: (1) that under paragraph 6.2(b) of the
Lease, Plaintiff, and not Defendant, was responsible for keeping the premises
in good order and complying with all applicable laws (Mem. at pp. 10-11); (2) that
the exculpatory clause in paragraph 8.7 of the Lease bars all of Plaintiff’s
claims (Mem. at 11-13); and (3) that the undisputed facts show, as a matter of
law, the Defendant did not breach the Lease (Mem. at 13-14).
Before reaching the merits,
the Court begins with a procedural matter.
Defendant has moved for
summary judgment, but Defendant has not moved (in the alternative) for summary
adjudication of any issues.  Accordingly,
if there are any triable issues of any material fact on any of Plaintiff’s
causes of action, the Court must deny the motion.
Turning now to the
substance of the dispute, the Court begins with the first cause of action in
the Complaint, for negligence.  The
elements of a cause of action for negligence are: (1) the existence of a
legal duty; (2) breach of that duty; (3) causation; and (4) resulting
damages. (Brown v. USA Taekwondo (2021) 11 Cal.5th 204, 213; Kesner
v. Superior Court (2016) 1 Cal.5th 1132, 1158; Romero v. Los
Angeles Rams (2023) 91 Cal.App.5th
562, 567.)
Civil Code section 1714
provides: “Everyone is responsible, not only for the result of his or her
willful acts, but also for an injury occasioned to another by his or her want
of ordinary care or skill in the management of his or her property or person, except
so far as the latter has, willfully or by want of ordinary care, brought the
injury upon himself or herself.” (Civ. Code, § 1714, subd. (a).) This
establishes what the California Supreme Court has described as the “default
rule” that every person has a legal duty “to exercise, in his or her
activities, reasonable care for the safety of others.” (Brown v. USA
Taekwondo (2021) 11 Cal.5th 204, 214.)
Here, the fire at issue
started in the alley adjacent to the leased premises of Unit B of 212 East Boyd
Street.  (DSUMF, Nos. 4-5.)  The alley is not part of the leased premises.  (DSUMF, No. 4.)
There is evidence in the
record that the started in cardboard boxes piled up in the alley next to the
exterior wall of the leased premises. 
(Merabi Decl., ¶ 20.)  Although
Defendant does not own the alley, there is evidence in the record that Defendant
exercised at least some control over the alley. 
(DSUMF, No. 6; Farkenpour Decl., ¶ 11; Merabi Decl., ¶¶ 2-4, 6-12,
14-16, 21; see also DSUMF, No. 8.) 
Plaintiff’s Chief Executive Officer, Nader David Merabi, testified that
he had personally complained to Defendant’s property manager Fred Natan about
the accumulation of trash in the alley prior to the fire at issue.  (Merabi Decl., ¶ 2-3, 11, 14-16, 18-20.)  Moreover, Mr. Merabi stated that in the
approximately eight-year time period before the fire, there had been “4 or 5
fires” in the accumulated trash in the alley, and he had spoken to Mr. Natan
“about the fires, the problems and risks with the fires, the number of
cardboard boxes and trash [that] was overflowing, and [that] the trash needed
to be cleaned up.”  (Id., ¶ 18.)
Because the fire started
outside of the leased premises, the obligations of Plaintiff set forth in Paragraph
6.2(b) of the Lease do not apply.  Paragraph
6.2(b) did not impose a duty on Plaintiff to comply “with all applicable
statutes, ordinances, rules, regulations, orders, covenants and restrictions of
record, and requirements in effect” regarding property that was outside the
scope of the leased premises.  Nor did
Paragraph 7.1 impose a duty on Plaintiff to keep the alley “in good order,
condition and repair,” as the alley was outside the scope of the leased
premises.  And the exclusions relating to
Defendant’s obligations set forth in Paragraph 7.4 of the Lease do not apply here,
as the fire started outside of the leased premises.
Paragraph 8.6 of the Lease requires
Plaintiff to indemnify Defendant for certain losses that arise “from any
negligence of the Lessee, or any of Lessee's agents, contractors, or employees.”  Here, however, there is evidence in the
record that the fire was caused, in whole or in part, by the negligence of
Defendant, and not by anything that Plaintiff did or failed to do.  (Merabi Decl., ¶ 2-3, 11, 14-16, 18-20.)
This brings the Court to
the broad exculpatory provision in Paragraph 8.7 of the Lease.  This provision does appear to provide
substantial protection to Defendant.  In
Paragraph 8.7, Plaintiff agreed that Defendant would not be liable for property
damage caused by fire (among other things) “arising upon the Premises or upon
other portions of the building of which the Premises are a part, or from other
sources or places.”  Even if the fire
started outside the leased premises, and then spread to the premises and caused
damage to Plaintiff’s property inside the leased premises, the exculpatory provision
of Paragraph 8.7 would apply.
The law regarding the
validity of exculpatory clauses is, at least at a general level, reasonably
clear: a party may, in advance, waive claims for ordinary negligence but not
claims for gross negligence, recklessness, or intentional torts. (See Jimenez
v. 24 Hour Fitness USA, Inc. (2015) 237 Cal.App.4th 546, 554; Frittelli,
Inc. v. 350 North Canon Drive, LP (2011) 202 Cal.App.4th 35, 52-53; Cohen
v. Five Brooks Stable (2008) 159 Cal.App.4th 1476, 1484; Benedek v. PLC
Santa Monica (2002) 104 Cal.App.4th 1351, 1356.)
Gross
negligence is not a tort separate from ordinary negligence. A cause of action
for negligence in a pleading is sufficient to cover claims for either ordinary
negligence, gross negligence, or both. Gross negligence falls short of a reckless disregard of
consequences and differs from ordinary negligence only in degree, and
not in kind. (Gore v. Board of Medical Quality Assurance (1980) 110
Cal.App.3d 184,197.) Mere nonfeasance, such as the failure to discover a
dangerous condition or to perform a duty amounts to ordinary negligence. (Frittelli,
supra, 202 Cal.App.4th at p. 48.)   Gross negligence, in contrast to ordinary
negligence, is defined as either “want of even scant care or an extreme
departure from the ordinary standard of conduct.” (City of Santa Barbara v.
Superior Court (2007) 41 Cal.4th 747, 753–754.)  “Gross negligence connotes such a lack of
care as may be presumed to indicate a passive and indifferent attitude toward
results ....” (Chavez v. 24 Hour Fitness USA, Inc. (2015) 238
Cal.App.4th 632, 640.)  Gross negligence
is generally a question of fact.  (Ibid.)
Viewing
the evidence here in the light most favorable to the non-moving party, and
drawing all reasonable inferences in his favor, the Court concludes that a
trier of fact could reasonably find, on this record, that Defendant was grossly
negligent, that Defendant’s conduct was an extreme departure from the ordinary
standard of conduct that indicated an indifferent attitude toward the
likelihood of injury to Plaintiff or others.  Among the evidence supporting this conclusion
is the evidence that fires had frequently occurred in the alley before the
incident in question, that Plaintiff specifically warned Defendant’s property
manager about the risk of fire from accumulated trash, and that despite these
warnings Defendant took no action (or, at the least, no sufficient action) to
address the accumulation of cardboard boxes and other trash in the alley.  (Merabi
Decl., ¶ 2-3, 11, 14-16, 18-20.)  Of
course, the trier of fact could also reasonably find the opposite, but on
summary judgment the Court does not weigh the evidence or attempt to predict
the likely outcome at trial.
Accordingly,
the Court cannot conclude, on this record, that Defendant is entitled to
judgment as a matter of law on the First Cause of Action (negligence) in the
Complaint.  And as Defendant has moved
only for summary judgment, and not summary adjudication, the Court must
therefore deny Defendant’s motion.
Conclusion
The Court DENIES
Defendant’s motion for summary judgment.
Moving party is
ordered to give notice.
 