 Case Number:  23STCV20171    Hearing Date:   January 21, 2025    Dept:  29 Teel v. County of Los Angeles
23STCV20171
Defendant’s Motion to Continue Trial 
 
Tentative
The motion is denied without prejudice.
Background
On August 23, 2023, Brittany Teel (“Plaintiff”) filed a
complaint against County of Los Angeles (“Defendant”) for premises liability
and general negligence causes of action arising out of slip and fall on March
15, 2023 at the entrance of LAC/USC Hospital.
 
On October 10, 2023, Defendant filed an answer.
 
On October 31, 2024, Defendant filed a motion for summary
judgment. On December 18, 2024, the Court denied the motion as untimely.
 
On December 17, 2024, Defendant filed a motion to
continue trial. An amended notice was filed on December 23, 2024. 
No opposition has been filed.
Trial is scheduled for February 19, 2025.
Legal Standard
Code of Civil Procedure section 128,
subdivision (a)(8), provides that the court has the power to amend and control
its process and orders so as to make them conform to law and justice. “The
power to determine when a continuance should be granted is within the
discretion of the trial court.” (Color-Vue, Inc. v. Abrams (1996) 44
Cal.App.4th 1599, 1603.) “A trial court has wide latitude in the matter of
calendar control including the granting or denying of continuances.” (Park
Motors, Inc. v. Cozens (1975) 49 Cal.App.3d 12, 18.)  
“To ensure the prompt disposition of civil
cases, the dates assigned for trial are firm. 
All parties and their counsel must regard the date set for trial as
certain.”  (Cal. Rules of Court, rule
3.1332(a).)
“Although continuances of trials are
disfavored, each request for a continuance must be considered on its own
merits.”  (Cal. Rules of Court, rule
3.1332(c).)  “The court may grant a
continuance only on an affirmative showing of good cause requiring the
continuance.”  (Ibid.)  Circumstances that may support a finding of
good cause include:  
“(1) The
unavailability of an essential lay or expert witness because of death, illness,
or other excusable circumstances;  
(2) The
unavailability of a party because of death, illness, or other excusable
circumstances;  
(3) The
unavailability of trial counsel because of death, illness, or other excusable
circumstances;  
(4) The
substitution of trial counsel, but only where there is an affirmative showing
that the substitution is required in the interests of justice;  
(5) The addition
of a new party if: (A) The new party has not had a reasonable opportunity to
conduct discovery and prepare for trial; or (B) The other parties have not had
a reasonable opportunity to conduct discovery and prepare for trial in regard
to the new party's involvement in the case; 

(6) A party's
excused inability to obtain essential testimony, documents, or other material
evidence despite diligent efforts; or  
(7) A
significant, unanticipated change in the status of the case as a result of
which the case is not ready for trial.”  
(Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1332(c).)  
“In ruling on a motion or application for
continuance, the court must consider all the facts and circumstances that are
relevant to the determination.”  (Cal.
Rules of Court, rule 3.1332(d).)  California
Rules of Court, rule 3.1332(d) sets forth a non-exhaustive list of factors that
the court may consider:  
“(1) The
proximity of the trial date;  
(2) Whether
there was any previous continuance, extension of time, or delay of trial due to
any party;  
(3) The length
of the continuance requested;  
(4) The
availability of alternative means to address the problem that gave rise to the
motion or application for a continuance; 

(5) The
prejudice that parties or witnesses will suffer as a result of the continuance;

(6) If the case
is entitled to a preferential trial setting, the reasons for that status and
whether the need for a continuance outweighs the need to avoid delay; 
(7) The court's
calendar and the impact of granting a continuance on other pending trials; 
(8) Whether
trial counsel is engaged in another trial; 

(9) Whether all
parties have stipulated to a continuance; 

(10) Whether the
interests of justice are best served by a continuance, by the trial of the
matter, or by imposing conditions on the continuance; and  
(11) Any other
fact or circumstance relevant to the fair determination of the motion or
application.”  
(Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1332(d).) 
“A trial court may not refuse to hear a summary judgment
motion filed within the time limits of section 437c.” (Sentry Ins. Co. v.
Superior Court (1989) 207 Cal.App.3d 526, 529; accord Cole v. Superior
Court (2022) 87 Cal.App.5th 84, 88.)
Discussion
Defendant seeks to
continue trial on two grounds: (1) so that its summary judgment motion be
heard; and (2) because of a conflict in the schedule of trial counsel.
As to the first
ground, there is no basis to continue trial. 
No summary judgment motion is currently pending.  When this motion to continue was filed, there
was a motion pending, but it was denied on December 18.
As to the second ground,
the motion is denied without prejudice. 
At the time of filing, Defendant reported that its trial counsel had two
conflicting trials on calendar, but that was more than one month ago, and trial
is still almost one month away.  Cases on
calendar for trial sometimes get resolved or continued or otherwise
delayed.  The mere possibility that trial
counsel might be engaged in another trial is not a basis to continue trial in
this matter at this time.
Of course, the
Court respects the right of Defendant to choose its trial counsel, and no
person can be in two places at once.  If,
on the day of trial in this matter, trial counsel is actively engaged in
another trial, then this matter will likely need to be continued or trailed
until the other trial is completed.
The motion is
denied without prejudice. 
Conclusion
The Court DENIES Defendant’s motion to continue trial.
 
Moving party is ordered to give notice.