 Case Number:  22STCV29482    Hearing Date:   January 21, 2025    Dept:  29 Alam v. Barrientos
22STCV29482
Plaintiff’s Motion to Set Aside Dismissal
Tentative
The motion is denied without prejudice.
Background
On September 9, 2022, MD Alam (“Plaintiff”)
filed a complaint against Aroldo Barrientos (“Defendant”) for general
negligence and motor vehicle negligence causes of action arising out of an
automobile accident occurring on March 10, 2022.
On September 9, 2024, the Court dismissed
this matter based on Plaintiff’s non-appearance for the order to show cause
hearing regarding dismissal for failure to file proof of service.
Defendant has yet to appear in this matter.
On December 19,
2024, Plaintiff filed this motion to set aside the dismissal. No opposition has
been filed.
Legal Standard
Code of Civil Procedure § 473(b) provides for
mandatory and discretionary relief from dismissal. “The court may, upon any
terms as may be just, relieve a party or his or her legal representative from a
judgment, dismissal, order, or other proceeding taken against him through his
or her mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or excusable neglect.” Code of Civil
Procedure § 473(b). Where such an application for discretionary relief is made,
the motion shall be accompanied by a copy of the answer or pleading proposed to
be filed, or the application will not be granted. (Id.) The court must
grant relief from dismissal where the application is accompanied by an attorney
affidavit attesting to his or her mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or neglect.
(Id.) In either case, the application must be made within a reasonable
time, and in no case exceeding six months after the judgment. (Id.)
Discussion
The Court must deny this motion, without
prejudice. 
Plaintiff’s motion is incomplete. Plaintiff references
the declaration of Karapet Galajain, Esq., but no declaration is attached to
the motion.
 
As Plaintiff seeks to set aside the dismissal based on
the mistake of counsel, this declaration is essential.
 
Conclusion
 
The Court DENIES WITHOUT PREJUDICE Plaintiff MD Alam’s
motion to set aside the September 9, 2024 Dismissal. 
 
Moving Party is to give notice.