 Case Number:  20STCV17551    Hearing Date:   September 23, 2024    Dept:  29 Rosenthal v.
Advance Auto Parts
20STCV17551
Defendants’ Motion to Compel Nonparty Witness Dr. George Graf to Appear for
Deposition
Tentative
The motion is GRANTED.
Background
On May 8, 2020, Melinda Rosenthal (“Plaintiff”) filed a complaint
against Advance Auto Parts, Inc., Worldpac, Inc. Wheels, Inc., Onorio Perez,
and Does 1 through 50 for motor vehicle negligence and general negligence arising
out of an automobile accident occurring on May 12, 2018.
On May 2, 2022, Plaintiff amended her complaint
to name Advance Stores Company, Inc., as Doe 1.
On May 12, 2022, Advance Stores Company, Inc., Advance Auto Parts,
Inc. and Worldpac, Inc. filed a joint answer. On the same day, Onorio Perez
filed a (separate) answer.
 
On August 28, 2024, Defendants Advance Stores Company, Inc., Advance Auto
Parts, Inc., Worldpac, Inc., and Onorio Perez (collectively “Defendants”) filed the motion to compel Dr. George Graf, third party
witness, to appear for deposition. 
 
No opposition has been filed. 
 
Proof of service has been filed
showing personal service of this motion on Dr. Graf on August 29, 2024.
 
Legal Standard
“Any party may
obtain discovery … by taking in California the oral deposition of any person,
including any party to the action.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.010.) 
The process by which a party may obtain discovery from a
person who is not a party to the action is through a deposition subpoena.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2020.010, subd.
(b).)  
“A deposition subpoena may command any of the following: (a) Only
the attendance and testimony of the deponent …. (b) Only the production of
business records for copying …. (c) The attendance and the testimony of
the deponent, as well as the production of business records, other documents,
electronically stored information, and tangible things.” (Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 2020.020.)
A
nonparty must be personally served with a deposition subpoena.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2020.220, subd.
(b).)  Service must be completed “a
reasonable time” in advance of the deposition and, when documents are
requested, “a sufficient time in advance of the deposition to provide the
deponent a reasonable opportunity to locate and produce” the documents.  (Id., subd. (a).)
“If a deponent fails to answer any question or to produce any
document, electronically stored information, or tangible thing under the
deponent’s control that is specified in the deposition notice or a deposition
subpoena, the party seeking discovery may move the court for an order
compelling that answer or production.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.480,
subd. (a).)  “This motion shall be made no later than 60 days after
the completion of the record of the deposition, and shall be accompanied by a
meet and confer declaration under Section 2016.040.” (Id., subd. (b).)
“If the
court determines that the answer or production sought is subject to discovery,
it shall order that the answer be given or the production be made on the
resumption of the deposition.  (Id., subd. (i).)
Except as specifically modified by the
Civil Discovery Act, the provisions of Code of Civil Procedure sections 1985
through 1997 apply to deposition subpoenas. 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2020.030.)¿ 
Code of
Civil Procedure section 1987.1, subdivision (a), provides: “If a subpoena
requires the attendance of a witness or the production of books, documents, or
other things before a court, or at the trial of an issue therein, or at the
taking of a deposition, the court, upon motion reasonably made by any person
described in subdivision (b), or upon the court’s own motion after giving
counsel notice and an opportunity to be heard, may make an order quashing the
subpoena entirely, modifying it, or directing compliance with it upon those
terms or conditions as the court shall declare, including protective orders. In
addition, the court may make any other order as may be appropriate to protect
the person from unreasonable or oppressive demands, including unreasonable
violations of the right of privacy of the person.”
A motion to compel a nonparty to answer questions or produce documents
“must be personally served on the nonparty deponent unless the nonparty
deponent agrees to accept service by mail or electronic service.”  (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1346.)
 
Discussion
Defendants
duly issued and served a subpoena for nonparty witness Dr. George Graf to
appear for deposition on August 20. (Morris Decl., ¶ 6 & Exh. C.)  Dr. Graf did not appear.  (Id., ¶ 7.) 
Defendants’ efforts to arrange for an alternative date for the
deposition were not successful.  (Ibid.)
 
Defendants need not show anything more.  The motion to compel is granted. 
 
Conclusion
The Court GRANTS Defendants’ Motion to
Compel the Deposition of nonparty witness Dr. George Graf. 
The Court ORDERS Dr. George Graf to appear for deposition on
October __, 2024, at 10:00 a.m., by remote means.  
The Court ORDERS Defendants to provide a link to Dr. Graf and
to all counsel representing parties who have appeared by no later than 24 hours
in advance of the deposition.
Moving party is ORDERED to give notice.