 Case Number:  23STCV28023    Hearing Date:   September 23, 2024    Dept:  29 Barron v. Liao
23STCV28023
Motion
to Compel Arbitration, filed by Defendant Uber Technologies, Inc.
Tentative
The motion is granted.
Background
On November 15, 2023,
Angelina Barron and Rheianne Marquez (collectively “Plaintiffs”) filed a
complaint against Ruijie Liao (“Liao”) and Does 1 through 50 for general
negligence and motor vehicle negligence arising out of an automobile accident
occurring on April 14, 2022 near Eastern Avenue and McPherson Avenue in Los
Angeles.
On November 20, 2023,
Plaintiffs amended the complaint to name Uber Technologies, Inc. (“Uber”) as
Doe 1. 
On January 8, 2024,
Plaintiffs filed a First Amended Complaint (“FAC”) against Liao, Uber, and Does
1 through 50.  In the FAC, Plaintiffs
assert one cause of action against Liao and the Doe defendants for motor
vehicle negligence/negligence per se and a second cause of action against Uber
and the Doe defendants for negligent hiring, retention, and supervision.  
On January 26, 2024, Liao filed
an answer to the FAC. 
On May 6, 2024, Uber filed
an answer to the complaint.  On May 13,
2024, Uber filed an answer to the FAC.
On August 12, 2024, the
Court granted the motion of Blue Hill Specialty Insurance Company (“Blue Hill”),
Liao’s liability insurer, to intervene.  On
August 19, 2024, Blue Hill filed an answer in intervention.
On August
27, 2024, Uber filed this motion to compel arbitration. Plaintiffs filed an
opposition on September 10, and Uber filed a reply on September 16.
Legal
Standard
California law incorporates many of
the basic policy objectives contained in the Federal Arbitration Act, including
recognizing the strong public policy in favor of arbitration. (See Engalla
v. Permanente Medical Group, Inc. (1997) 15 Cal.4th 951, 971-72.) Under
Code of Civil Procedure section 1281, a “written agreement to submit to
arbitration an existing controversy or a controversy thereafter arising is
valid, enforceable and irrevocable, save upon such grounds as exist for the
revocation of any contract.”  
Code of Civil Procedure section
1281.2 provides, in pertinent part, the following:
“On petition of a party to an
arbitration agreement alleging the existence of a written agreement to
arbitrate a controversy and that a party thereto refuses to arbitrate such
controversy, the court shall order the petitioner and the respondent to
arbitrate the controversy if it determines that an agreement to arbitrate the
controversy exists, unless it determines that: 
(a) The right to compel arbitration
has been waived by the petitioner; or 
(b) Grounds exist for the
revocation of the agreement. 
(c) A party to the arbitration
agreement is also a party to a pending court action or special proceeding with
a third party, arising out of the same transaction or series of related transactions
and there is a possibility of conflicting rulings on a common issue of law or
fact ....”  
(d) … If the court determines that a party to
the arbitration is also a party to litigation in a pending court action or
special proceeding with a third party as set forth under subdivision (c), the
court (1) may refuse to enforce the arbitration agreement and may order
intervention or joinder of all parties in a single action or special
proceeding; (2) may order intervention or joinder as to all or only certain
issues; (3) may order arbitration among the parties who have agreed to
arbitration and stay the pending court action or special proceeding pending the
outcome of the arbitration proceeding; or (4) may stay arbitration pending
the outcome of the court action or special proceeding.”
(Code Civ. Proc., § 1281.2.) 
“[W]hen a petition to compel
arbitration is filed and accompanied by prima facie evidence of a written
agreement to arbitrate the controversy, the court itself must determine whether
the agreement exists and, if any defense to its enforcement is raised, whether
it is enforceable. Because the existence of the agreement is a statutory
prerequisite to granting the petition, the petitioner bears the burden of
proving its existence by a preponderance of the evidence. If the party
opposing the petition raises a defense to enforcement—either fraud in the
execution voiding the agreement, or a statutory defense of waiver or revocation
(see §1281.2(a), (b))—that party bears the burden of producing evidence of, and
proving by a preponderance of the evidence, any fact necessary to the defense.”
(Rosenthal v. Great Western Fin. Securities Corp. (1996) 14 Cal.4th 394,
413.)
Discussion
Uber moves for an
order compelling arbitration of Plaintiffs’ claims against Uber in accordance
with the terms of an agreement between the parties to arbitrate.  Uber also seeks to stay litigation of
Plaintiffs’ claims against Uber pending completion of the arbitration.
As a
threshold matter, Uber has met its initial burden of showing that there is an
agreement to arbitrate between the parties that covers the matters in dispute
here.  
Chenshan Yu, Data
Scientist for Uber, has submitted a written declaration explaining (among other
things): (1) that Plaintiff Barron accepted Uber’s Terms of Service (dated as
of November 12, 2019) when she created her user account on November 22, 2019,
and subsequently accepted Uber’s updated Terms of Service (dated as of December
16, 2021) on February 24, 2022; (2) that Plaintiff Marquez accepted Uber’s
Terms of Service (dated as of January 17, 2023) when she created her user
account on March 2, 2023.  (Yu Decl., ¶¶ 7-9,
11-12, 14, 19.)  
The documents
attached to Yu’s declaration, and authenticated by Yu, demonstrate (among other
things): (1) that paragraph 2 of the Terms of Use dated November 12, 2019,
includes an agreement to arbitrate “any dispute, claim or controversy,” subject
to some exclusions that do not apply here (Exh. B, ¶ 2.); (2) that paragraph 2
of the Terms of Use that Plaintiff Barron accepted in February 2022, dated December
16, 2021, as well as paragraph 2 of the Terms of Use that Plaintiff Marquez accepted
in March 2023, also contain similar provisions (Id., Exhs. D & G.). The
agreement further states that there is agreement to arbitrate claims both
before and after the party agrees to the terms. (Exh. G, ¶ 2(a)(1).)
Accordingly, Uber
has shown that there are agreements between each of the Plaintiffs and Uber,
and that those agreements contain arbitration provisions.
In
opposition, both Plaintiffs argue that the Court should nonetheless deny Uber’s
motion to compel because of waiver.  In
addition, and independently, Plaintiff Marquez (only) makes a separate argument
that her causes of action against Uber fall outside the scope of the arbitration
provision.  The Court considers each
argument in turn.
First, the
Court rejects Plaintiffs’ argument regarding waiver.  Uber filed its answer in May 2024, has not
propounded discovery, only responded to discovery with objections, and filed
this motion to arbitrate roughly three months after filing its answer. Uber has
not sufficiently participated in discovery or otherwise delayed in such a
manner as to support a determination that Uber waived its right to demand arbitration.
Next,
Plaintiff Marquez (only) argues that her causes of action are not subject to
mandatory arbitration because they fall outside the scope of the arbitration provision
in her contract with Uber.  Specifically,
Marquez presents her sworn testimony that Plaintiff Barron ordered the Uber
that was involved in the accident.  (Chun
Decl., ¶ 1 & Exh. 1.)  Accordingly,
Marquez argues, her causes of action do not arise out of any use of Uber’s services
by her.
Marquez created
an account with Uber in March 2023, months after the accident.  (Yu Decl., ¶ 14.)  When Marquez did so, she agreed to Uber’s Terms
of Use dated January 17, 2023 (the “Terms”). 
(Id., ¶¶ 14, 19 & Exh. G.) 
The arbitration provisions appear in paragraph 2 of the Terms.  (Id., Exh. G.)  
Paragraph 2(a)(1)
of the Terms provides that, except for some exceptions that do not apply here:
“[Y]ou and Uber agree that any dispute, claim, or controversy in
any way arising out of or relating to (i) these Terms and prior versions of
these Terms, or the existence, breach, termination, enforcement,
interpretation, scope, waiver, or validity thereof; (ii) your access to or use
of the Services at any time; (iii) incidents or accidents resulting in personal
injury to you or anyone else that you allege occurred in connection with your
use of the Services (including, but not limited to, your use of the Uber
Marketplace Platform or the driver version of the Uber App), regardless whether
the dispute, claim, or controversy occurred or accrued before or after the date
you agreed to these Terms, and regardless whether you allege that the personal
injury was experienced by you or anyone else; and (iv) your relationship with
Uber, will be settled by binding individual arbitration between you and Uber,
and not in a court of law.” 
The definition
of “Services” appears in the first (and unnumbered) paragraph of the Terms.  That paragraph states:
“Terms of Service (“Terms of Service”) constitute a legally binding
agreement between you and Uber Technologies, Inc. and its subsidiaries,
representatives, affiliates, officers and directors (collectively, “Uber”)
governing your use of Uber’s personalized, multipurpose, digital marketplace
platform (“Uber Marketplace Platform”) and any related content or services,
including mobile and/or web-based applications (“Applications” or the “Uber
App,” and together with the Uber Marketplace Platform, the “Services”).”
Paragraph
2(a)(4) of the Terms states in part:
“Only an arbitrator, and not any federal, state, or local court or
agency, shall have exclusive authority to resolve any dispute arising out of or
relating to the interpretation, applicability, enforceability, or formation of
this Arbitration Agreement, including without limitation any claim that all or
any part of this Arbitration Agreement is void or voidable. An arbitrator shall
also have exclusive authority to resolve all threshold arbitrability issues,
including issues relating to whether the Terms are applicable, unconscionable,
or illusory and any defense to arbitration, including without limitation
waiver, delay, laches, or estoppel.” 
Paragraph 2(c)
of the Terms states that the Federal Arbitration Act (“FAA”) governs the “interpretation
and enforcement and proceedings pursuant” to the Terms.  
Paragraph
2(c) also states that for disputes arising in California, “the arbitration will
be administered by ADR Services, Inc. (“ADR”) in accordance with ADR’s
Arbitration Rules (the “ADR Rules”) in effect at the time that the claim is
brought” and notes that the current version of the ADR Rules in available at www.adrservices.com.
Plaintiff
Marquez argues, in a nutshell, that although she agreed to arbitrate all claims
arising out of “accidents resulting in personal injury to you or anyone else
that you allege occurred in connection with your use of the Services,” her
claims in this action do not arise out of her “use of the Services”; rather,
they arise out of Plaintiff Barron’s “use of the Services,” and she is not
bound by the arbitration provision in the contract between Plaintiff Barron and
Uber.   
Uber argues
that the parties agreed, in paragraph 2(a)(4) of the Terms, that the arbitrator
would have the “exclusive authority” to resolve “threshold arbitrability
issues,” including disputes regarding “whether the Terms are applicable.”
The Court
begins its analysis by noting that the parties agreed in their contract that
the Federal Arbitration Act would govern the enforcement of the arbitration
provisions.  (Terms, ¶ 2(c).)  Under the Federal Arbitration Act, the U.S.
Supreme Court has explained:
“[A]rbitration
is a matter of contract, and courts must enforce arbitration contracts
according to their terms.  Applying the
Act, we have held that parties may agree to have an arbitrator decide not only
the merits of a particular dispute but also ‘gateway’ questions of
‘arbitrability,’ such as whether the parties have agreed to arbitrate or
whether their agreement covers a particular controversy.  We have explained that an agreement to
arbitrate a gateway issue is simply an additional, antecedent agreement the
party seeking arbitration asks the federal court to enforce, and the FAA
operates on this additional arbitration agreement just as it does on any other.”

(Henry
Schein, Inc. v. Archer and White Sales (2019) 586 U.S. 63, 67-68 [citations
and internal quotations omitted]; see also Rent-A-Center, West v. Jackson (2010)
561 U.S. 63, 67-70; First Options of Chicago v. Kaplan (1995) 514 U.S.
938, 943.)
Although
ordinarily a court will decide issues of arbitrability, “the parties may delegate
threshold arbitrability questions to the arbitrator, so long as the parties’
agreement does so by clear and unmistakable evidence.”  (Henry Schein, supra, 586 U.S. at pp.
69, 72; accord Rent-A-Center, supra, 561 U.S. at p. 69 fn. 1; First
Options, supra, 514 U.S. at p. 944.) 
“When the
parties' contract delegates the arbitrability question to an arbitrator, a
court may not override the contract.  In
those circumstances, a court possesses no power to decide the arbitrability
issue.  That is true even if the court
thinks that the argument that the arbitration agreement applies to a particular
dispute is wholly groundless.”
(Henry Schein, supra, 586 U.S.
at p. 68.)
California law is in accord.  As the Second District Court of Appeal explained
just recently, there is a presumption that courts, and not arbitrators, will
decide “disputes about arbitrability, including whether an arbitration clause
in a concededly binding contract applies to a particular type of controversy.”  (Mondragon v. Sunrun (2024) 101
Cal.App.5th 592, 603 [internal quotations omitted].)
“The parties
may agree to delegate authority to the arbitrator to decide arbitrability, but
given the contrary presumption, evidence that the parties intended such a
delegation must be clear and unmistakable before a court will enforce a
delegation provision.”
(Ibid.)
Here, the
parties have clearly and unmistakably delegated to the arbitrator the “exclusive
authority” to resolve “threshold arbitrability issues,” including a dispute,
such as the one at issue in this matter, regarding “whether the Terms are
applicable.”  (Terms, ¶ 2(a)(4).)  Although the Court views Uber’s arguments
regarding arbitrability with a substantial amount of skepticism, the parties clearly
and unmistakably agreed that an arbitrator, and not a court, would decide this
issue.
Accordingly,
the Court must grant Uber’s motion to compel arbitration.
This ruling
is not, and should not be viewed or interpreted as, a ruling as to whether the
dispute between Plaintiff Marquez and Uber is arbitrable.  That is for the arbitrator to decide.
Conclusion
The Court
GRANTS Uber’s motion to compel arbitration. 
The
Court ORDERS the parties to arbitrate their disputes, including disputes regarding
arbitrability, pursuant to the terms of the agreements between each of the
Plaintiffs and Uber.
The
Court STAYS litigation of Plaintiffs’ causes of action against Uber (only).
The
Court sets an OSC re dismissal (completion of arbitration) for March __, 2025,
at 8:30 a.m., in Department 29 of the Spring Street Courthouse.
Moving
Party is ORDERED to give notice.
 
 