 Case Number:  22STCV38789    Hearing Date:   September 23, 2024    Dept:  29 Addison v.
Baires Trucking LLC
22STCV38789
Defendants’ Motion to Continue Trial
Tentative
The motion is denied.
Background
On December 14, 2022, Corey Addison
(“Plaintiff”) filed a complaint against Baires
Trucking LLC, Carlos A. Baires, Carlos Delgado (collectively “Defendants”), and
Does 1 through 100 for motor vehicle negligence arising out of an accident
occurring on January 5, 2021.
On filing, the
case was assigned a trial date of June 12, 2024.
On March 21,
2023, Defendants filed an answer. 
On February 21,
2024, Plaintiff amended the complaint to add RCS Trucking as Doe 1. The Court,
at the request of Plaintiff, entered a dismissal of RCS Trucking on March 11,
2024.
On March 11, 2024,
R.C.S. Trucking, Inc. was added as Doe 26, 51 and 76. Default was entered
against R.C.S. Trucking, Inc. on May 8, 2024.
On May 23, 2024,
the Court, on the stipulation of the parties, continued the trial date to
September 25, 2024.
On September 16,
2024, Defendants filed this motion to continue
trial. The Court, on Defendants’ ex parte application, shortened time and set
the hearing for September 23.  Plaintiff
filed an opposition on September 19.
Legal
Standard
Code of Civil Procedure section 128,
subdivision (a)(8), provides that the court has the power to amend and control
its process and orders so as to make them conform to law and justice. “The
power to determine when a continuance should be granted is within the
discretion of the trial court.” (Color-Vue, Inc. v. Abrams (1996) 44
Cal.App.4th 1599, 1603.) “A trial court has wide latitude in the matter of
calendar control including the granting or denying of continuances.” (Park
Motors, Inc. v. Cozens (1975) 49 Cal.App.3d 12, 18.)  
“To ensure the prompt disposition of civil
cases, the dates assigned for trial are firm. 
All parties and their counsel must regard the date set for trial as
certain.”  (Cal. Rules of Court, rule
3.1332(a).)
“Although continuances of trials are
disfavored, each request for a continuance must be considered on its own
merits.”  (Cal. Rules of Court, rule
3.1332(c).)  “The court may grant a
continuance only on an affirmative showing of good cause requiring the
continuance.”  (Ibid.)  Circumstances that may support a finding of
good cause include:  
“(1) The
unavailability of an essential lay or expert witness because of death, illness,
or other excusable circumstances;  
(2) The
unavailability of a party because of death, illness, or other excusable
circumstances;  
(3) The
unavailability of trial counsel because of death, illness, or other excusable
circumstances;  
(4) The
substitution of trial counsel, but only where there is an affirmative showing
that the substitution is required in the interests of justice;  
(5) The addition
of a new party if: (A) The new party has not had a reasonable opportunity to
conduct discovery and prepare for trial; or (B) The other parties have not had
a reasonable opportunity to conduct discovery and prepare for trial in regard
to the new party's involvement in the case; 

(6) A party's
excused inability to obtain essential testimony, documents, or other material
evidence despite diligent efforts; or  
(7) A
significant, unanticipated change in the status of the case as a result of
which the case is not ready for trial.”  
(Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1332(c).)  
“In ruling on a motion or application for
continuance, the court must consider all the facts and circumstances that are
relevant to the determination.”  (Cal.
Rules of Court, rule 3.1332(d).)  California
Rules of Court, rule 3.1332(d) sets forth a non-exhaustive list of factors that
the court may consider:  
“(1) The
proximity of the trial date;  
(2) Whether
there was any previous continuance, extension of time, or delay of trial due to
any party;  
(3) The length
of the continuance requested;  
(4) The
availability of alternative means to address the problem that gave rise to the
motion or application for a continuance; 

(5) The
prejudice that parties or witnesses will suffer as a result of the continuance;

(6) If the case
is entitled to a preferential trial setting, the reasons for that status and
whether the need for a continuance outweighs the need to avoid delay; 
(7) The court's
calendar and the impact of granting a continuance on other pending trials; 
(8) Whether
trial counsel is engaged in another trial; 

(9) Whether all
parties have stipulated to a continuance; 

(10) Whether the
interests of justice are best served by a continuance, by the trial of the
matter, or by imposing conditions on the continuance; and  
(11) Any other
fact or circumstance relevant to the fair determination of the motion or
application.”  
(Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1332(d).) 
“On
motion of any party, the court may grant leave to complete discovery
proceedings, or to have a motion concerning discovery heard, closer to the
initial trial date, or to reopen discovery after a new trial date has been
set.¿ This motion shall be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration under
Section 2016.040.”¿ (Code Civ. Proc., section 2024.050, subd. (a).)¿ 
 
“In
exercising its discretion to grant or deny this motion, the court shall take
into consideration any matter relevant to the leave requested, including, but
not limited to, the following: (1) The necessity and the reasons for the
discovery.¿ (2) The diligence or lack of diligence of the party seeking the
discovery or the hearing of a discovery motion, and the reasons that the
discovery was not completed or that the discovery motion was not heard
earlier.¿ (3) Any likelihood that permitting the discovery or hearing the
discovery motion will prevent the case from going to trial on the date set, or
otherwise interfere with the trial calendar, or result in prejudice to any
other party.¿ (4) The length of time that has elapsed between any date
previously set, and the date presently set, for the trial of the action.”¿
(Code Civ. Proc., section 2024.050, subd. (b)(1)-(4).)¿¿¿ 
 
Discussion
Defendants seek to continue trial and reopen
discovery.  According to Defendants, they
learned for the first time on September 9, 2024, that four days earlier, on
September 5, Plaintiff had a procedure to insert a trial spinal cord stimulator
device.  (Harmon Decl., ¶¶ 2-10.)  According to documents that Defendants
received on September 13, the operation was reported to be successful, and it
is expected that Plaintiff will receive a permanent stimulator at a cost of
$120,000.  (Id., ¶ 10.)
Defendants’ counsel seeks to continue trial
and to reopen discovery so that Defendants may subpoena “all the doctors and
facilities associated with this surprise procedure, … as well as the
non-retained psychotherapist’s record of plaintiff’s visits shortly prior to
his recent surgery.  (Id., ¶ 12.)  In addition, Defendant state that their
experts “will need … to review all the records related to this procedure.”  (Id., ¶ 13.)  Defendants seek a continuance of six months “at
least.”  (Ibid.)
As a threshold matter, despite some of
Defendants’ rhetoric, there was no late disclosure by Plaintiff.  To the contrary, according to Defendants’
counsel, Plaintiff had a procedure on September 5 and his lawyers provided Defendants
with documents related to the procedure on September 9 and 13.
Moreover, Defendants’ contention that they
were, essentially, blindsided by a recent, unanticipated, development is not
supported by the record.  In April 2024, Plaintiff
responded to a supplemental interrogatory and stated (1) that he was still
treating and (2) he may eventually need a spinal cord stimulator.  (Odedra Decl., Exh. 1.)  Plaintiff also produced a copy of the report
of Lawrence Miller, M.D., dated February 29, 2024, which also states the
same.  (Id, Exh. 2.)  In May 2024, Plaintiff sent a settlement demand
with an analysis of expected future medical care that specifically referenced a
spinal cord stimulator at a cost of more than $1.1 million.  (Id., Exh. 3.)  Similar information was again provided on August
6, 2024, with Plaintiff’s expert witness designation.  (Id., Exh. 5.)
Despite being on notice of the possibility or
probability of the need for a spinal cord stimulator, and the cost of the
procedure, Defendants did not take discovery on this issue.  Defendants did not subpoena any medical
records in 2024 and did not take the deposition of any of Plaintiff’s treaters
or experts.  (Id., ¶ 6.)
After reviewing all of the argument and all
of the evidence, and considering all of the relevant circumstances, it appears
that Defendants had sufficient notice of the possibility or probability that
Plaintiff would need a spinal cord stimulator months before trial.  Defendants were not diligent.  To the contrary, Defendants did not conduct
discovery on this issue, as it appears that they simply chose to disbelieve
Plaintiff’s contentions that he was suffering from ongoing medical issues as a
result of the accident. 
The Court finds Defendants have not established
good cause for a continuance of trial or for a reopening of discovery. 
Accordingly, Defendants’ motion is DENIED. 
Conclusion
The Court DENIES Defendants’ motion to reopen discovery and continue trial. 
Moving Party is ORDERED to give notice.
 