  Case Number:  22STCV34672    Hearing Date:   July 12, 2024    Dept:  76 Plaintiffs alleged that Defendants
have conspired to destroy Plaintiffs’ business enterprises through a social
media smear campaign which characterizes Plaintiffs as a cult.
Cross-Complainants filed a
Cross-Complaint alleging a bevy of claims against Plaintiffs regarding wrongful
activities occurring within the church environment.
Defendant and Cross-Complainant,
Elisha Priscylla Leigh moves to compel compliance with request for production
of documents and sanctions against Plaintiffs and Cross-Defendants.
TENTATIVE RULING


Defendant and Cross-Complainant,
Elisha Priscylla Leigh’s motions to compel compliance
are CONTINUED to August 9, 2024 at 8:30 a.m. Joint omnibus separate statement
is due August 2, 2024.
The Court is inclined to grant Defendant
and Cross-Complainant Leigh’s request for sanctions against Plaintiffs and
Cross-Defendants Shekinah Church, RCP Financial Inc., 7M Films Inc., Robert
Israel Shinn, and Hannah Grace Shinn, and Cross-Defendants Matthew Shinn,
Isaiah Shinn, Shirley Kim, Young Bin Kim, Chrstina Keller, Abraham Park, Jenny
Park, Eung (“Luke”) Seok Son, Alpha Plus Realty, and Imaginating Pictures
and/or their counsel Dan Gutenplan and Neeloufar Mahrouyan  in the
reduced amount of $4,200 total, jointly and severally.  However, given the continued hearing date, the Court will stay the determination of sanctions until the ruling on the motion is finalized. 
ANALYSIS
Motion To Compel
Compliance Defendant and Cross-Complainant,
Elisha Priscylla Leigh moves to compel compliance with request for production
of documents and sanctions against Plaintiffs and Cross-Defendants. 
 
            A
motion to compel compliance pursuant to Civ. Proc. Code, § 2031.320 does not
have a 45-day time limit, nor does it contain a meet and confer requirement or
a good cause requirement.  However, such
a motion is only proper where the responding party represented in its response
that it would comply with the request for production and failed to do so. (Civ.
Proc. Code., § 2031.320(a).) A proper response to a request for production is
“[a] statement that the party will comply with the particular demand for inspection,
copying, testing, or sampling” by the date set forth in Civ. Proc. Code, §
2031.030(c)(2)(within a reasonable time, at least 30 days after service of the
demand).
 
            Here,
moving party did not provide a copy of the requests for production of
documents, but indicates that the requests specified a date for production as
30 days from the date of, presumably, service of the responses thereto. 
 
Civ.
Proc. Code, § 2031.030(c) provides:
 
(c) Each demand in a set
shall be separately set forth, identified by number or letter, and shall do all
of the following:
 
. . .
 
(2) Specify a reasonable time for the
inspection, copying, testing, or sampling that is at least 30 days after
service of the demand, unless the court for good cause shown has granted
leave to specify an earlier date. . . .
 
(3) Specify a reasonable place for making
the inspection, copying, testing, or sampling, and performing any related
activity.
. . .

     (Civ.
Proc. Code, § 2031.030 [bold emphasis added].)
 
            If
propounding party had specified a date for production, then a statement of
compliance in the responses would have to meet the standard set forth in Civ.
Proc. Code, § 2031.210(a)(1) as follows:
 
(a) The party to whom a demand for
inspection, copying, testing, or sampling has been directed shall respond
separately to each item or category of item by any of the following:
 
(1) A statement that the party will comply
with the particular demand for inspection, copying, testing, or sampling by
the date set for the inspection, copying, testing, or sampling pursuant
to paragraph (2) of subdivision (c) of Section 2031.030 and any related
activities.
     (Civ. Proc Code, § 2031.210(a)(1)[bold
emphasis added].)
            Although the responses did not
explicitly state that production would occur by the date set in the notice,
this will be implied from the responses of compliance. 
Responding
parties apparently produced some documents on June 27, 2024. (Reply, Pages 7:8
– 25.) The Court orders the parties to meet and confer regarding the
completeness of such production relative to each responsive indicating
compliance with the requests. The parties are to submit a joint omnibus separate
statement setting forth the remaining categories in dispute.
The
hearing on the motions to compel compliance are CONTINUED to August 9, 2024 at
8:30 a.m. Joint omnibus separate statement is due August 2, 2024. 
 Because
responding parties did not produce documents within 30 days after the responses
to requests for production were served on September 13, 2023 (Barnes Decl., ¶¶
5, 10), the Court finds that sanctions against responding parties are appropriate.  As such,
and keeping in mind that the motions appear to be identical, Defendant and
Cross-Complainant Elisha Pryscilla Leigh’s request for sanctions against Plaintiffs
and Cross-Defendants Shekinah Church, RCP Financial Inc., 7M Films Inc., Robert
Israel Shinn, and Hannah Grace Shinn, and Cross-Defendants Matthew Shinn,
Isaiah Shinn, Shirley Kim, Young Bin Kim, Chrstina Keller, Abraham Park, Jenny
Park, Eung (“Luke”) Seok Son, Alpha Plus Realty, and Imaginating Pictures
and/or their counsel Dan Gutenplan and Neeloufar Mahrouyan should be GRANTED in the
reduced amount of $4,200 total, jointly and severally.   However, given the continued hearing date, the Court will stay the final determination of sanctions until the ruling on the motion is finalized.