

Hearing Date:             November
1, 2023
Case Name:                Neman
v. Bahari  
Case No.:                    22STCV39168
Motion:                       Demurrer

Moving Party:             Defendants Payam Bahari, Freydoon “Fred” Bahari Moghadam, Haim
Bahari, Tal Bahari, 114 Grand Cypress, LLC, Cavalini, Inc., and Caster Modelo,
LLC

Opposing Party:          Plaintiff
Morad Ben Neman and Lancaster Eagle, LLC

Tentative Ruling:      The
Demurrer to the First Amended Complaint is sustained in its entirety with leave
to amend. 

             
            This case arises out of an alleged
breach of an oral joint venture agreement to jointly purchase real estate.
Plaintiffs Morad Ben Neman and Lancaster Eagle, LLC (Plaintiffs) filed suit
against Defendants Payam Bahari, Freydoon “Fred” Bahari Moghadam, Haim Bahari,
Tal Bahari, and three entities: (1) 114 Grand Cypress, LLC, (2) Cavalini, Inc.,
and (3) Caster Modelo, LLC (collectively, Defendants).
 
            On December 16, 2022, Plaintiffs
filed a Complaint. Defendants demurred to each cause of action. The Court
sustained the demurrer in its entirety. 
 
            On June 9, 2023, Plaintiffs filed a
First Amended Complaint, alleging causes of action for (1.) Breach of Joint
Venture, (2.) Breach of Fiduciary Duty, (3.) Aiding and Abetting Breaches of
Fiduciary Duty, and (4.) Fraudulent Conveyances. 
 
Defendants now
demur to the first, second, third, and fourth causes of action in the First
Amended Complaint. Plaintiff opposes the demurrer. 
 
            The Court sustains the demurrer in
its entirety with leave to amend.[1] 
 
Demurrer
 
            A demurrer is an
objection to a pleading, the grounds for which are apparent from either the
face of the complaint or a matter of which the court may take judicial notice.
(Code Civ. Proc., § 430.30, subd. (a); see also Blank v. Kirwan (1985)
39 Cal.3d 311, 318.) The purpose of a demurrer is to challenge the sufficiency
of a pleading “by raising questions of law.” (Postley v. Harvey (1984)
153 Cal.App.3d 280, 286.) “In the construction of a pleading, for the purpose
of determining its effect, its allegations must be liberally construed, with a
view to substantial justice between the parties.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 452.) The
court “ ‘ “treat[s] the demurrer as admitting all material facts properly
pleaded, but not contentions, deductions or conclusions of fact or law . . ..” ’
” (Berkley v. Dowds (2007) 152 Cal.App.4th 518, 525.)  
 
Analysis 
            
Defendants
demur to the FAC on the grounds that Plaintiffs have failed to state facts
sufficient to constitute a cause of action. 
 
Meet and Confer Obligations
 
            Plaintiffs
argue that Defendants failed to comply with their meet and confer obligations
under Code of Civil Procedure section 430.41. 
 
Code of Civil Procedure section 430.41(a)
provides as follows: “Before filing a demurrer pursuant to this chapter, the
demurring party shall meet and confer in person or by telephone with the party
who filed the pleading that is subject to demurrer for the purpose of
determining whether an agreement can be reached that would resolve the
objections to be raised in the demurrer.”
 
Plaintiffs
argue that Defendants failed to meet and confer either by in person or by telephone before filing
this demurrer. (Vivoli Decl., ¶¶ 3-4, Ex. A-B.) 
 
            In response, Defendants’ counsel argues
that in its meet and confer letter it requested Plaintiffs’ counsel provide a
list of times he was available to meet and confer before July 5, 2023. (Zohar
Decl., ¶ 3.) Plaintiff’s counsel did not respond until July 7, 2023 and he did
not provide availability to meet in person or by telephone in response to the meet
and confer letter. (Zohar Decl., ¶¶ 4-5.) 
 
            Defendants complied with their obligations
under the statute; Plaintiffs cannot claim noncompliance by ignoring and thus
hindering Defendants’ attempt to comply with the statute. 
 
First Cause
of Action for breach of oral joint venture agreement. 
 
            Defendants contend that the first
cause of action for breach of joint venture agreement is fatally uncertain and
fails to state a claim. They argue, that despite the Court’s prior ruling as to
this cause of action, the FAC did not add any detail regarding the obligations
of each party and is still vague as to when the agreement was made.
 
            There are three elements to show the
existence of a joint venture, which are similar to a general partnership: (1)
joint interest in a common business; (2) with an understanding to share profits
and losses; and (3) a right to joint control. (Jacobs v. Locatelli
(2017) 8 Cal.App.5th 317.) Facts showing the joining of funds,
property, or labor in a common purpose to attain a result for the benefit of
the parties in which each has a right in some measure to direct the conduct of
the other through a fiduciary relation that must exist, will justify a finding
that a joint venture exists. (Fitzgerald v. Provines (1951) 102
Cal.App.2d 529, 537.) 
 
A
joint venture is an agreement. An agreement is a manifestation of mutual assent
on the part of two or more persons. Here, the first cause of action is subject
to demurrer because it remains unclear as to what the parties’ obligations were
under this agreement and when the agreement was to take place.
 
The
Court previously noted that, while the cause of action for breach of the joint
venture is against all Defendants, Plaintiffs’ explanation of the terms of the
agreement are primarily communicated to Defendants Fred Bahari and Payam
Bahari. (Compl., ¶ 19.) The Court found the agreement was uncertain because is
unclear whether the other Defendants were also part of the agreement or whether
Defendants Fred Bahari and Payam Bahari were authorized to consent to the terms
on their behalf. In the FAC, Plaintiffs now allege that Defendant Payam was the
authorized agent for Defendants and communicated his agreement with all the
terms of the joint venture. (FAC ¶¶ 27-28.) This agency allegation constitutes
an ultimate fact. (Skopp v. Weaver (1976) 16 Cal.3d 432, 439 “[A]n
allegation of agency as such is a statement
of ultimate fact. Consequently further allegations explaining how
this fact of agency originated become unnecessary.”].) 
 
The
Court also previously sustained the demurrer on the grounds that the Complaint
failed to allege who possesses the right to control or manage the property. On
the FAC, the pleadings now allege that all the joint venturers “have an equal
right to control and manage the joint venture and its properties,” but it also
alleges that Plaintiffs have the “right to manage the day-to-day activities of
each [property] and [make] the decisions about how to best monetize them.”
(FAC, ¶ 19.) These allegations are vague, conclusory and contradictory.  The FAC continues to fail to specify the
partnership rights nor what is involved in the management control.
Additionally, it remains unclear when these terms will apply and to which
parties. Further, the pleadings still fail to allege the date of the agreement
or the details. (FAC ¶¶ 18, 28.) For this reason, the FAC fails to allege the
specific obligations of each party as it relates to joint control, management
and duration.
 
The
demurrer to the first cause of action is sustained. 
 
Second
Cause of Action for breach of fiduciary duty. 
 
            Defendants argue that Plaintiff has failed
to state a cause of action for breach of fiduciary duty because Plaintiffs cannot
allege the existence of a fiduciary relationship.
“The
elements of a claim for breach of fiduciary duty are (1) the existence of a
fiduciary relationship, (2) its breach, and (3) damage proximately caused by
that breach.” (Mendoza v. Continental Sales Co. (2006) 140 Cal.App.4th
1395, 1405, 45 Cal.Rptr.3d 525.) 
            One element of the cause of action
for breach of fiduciary duty is the existence of a fiduciary relationship. (Knox v. Dean (2012) 205 Cal.App.4th 417, 432.) A joint
venture is an “undertaking by two or more persons jointly to carry out a single
business enterprise for profit” (Nelson v. Abraham
(1947) 29 Cal.2d 745, 749) and is a type of relationship upon which the law
imposes fiduciary duties (Cleveland v. Johnson
(2012) 209 Cal.App.4th 1315, 1339.)
 
            The second cause of action relies on
the existence of a joint venture agreement to create fiduciary relationship
between the parties. (FAC ¶ 32.) Given the Court’s ruling on the first cause of
action, the demurrer to the second cause of action is also sustained. 
 
Third Cause
of Action for aiding and abetting breach of fiduciary duty.
 
            Defendants argue that the third
cause of action fails because Plaintiffs have not alleged a breach of a fiduciary
duty. 
            A defendant is liable for aiding and abetting another in
the commission of an intentional tort, including a breach of fiduciary duty, if
the defendant “ ‘ “knows the other's conduct constitutes a breach of duty and
gives substantial assistance or encouragement to the other to so act.” ’ ” (Casey
v. U.S. Bank Nat. Assn. (2005) 127 Cal.App.4th 1138, 1144.)
“The
elements of a claim for aiding and abetting a breach of fiduciary duty are: (1)
a third party's breach of fiduciary duties owed to plaintiff; (2) defendant's
actual knowledge of that breach of fiduciary duties; (3) substantial assistance
or encouragement by defendant to the third party's breach; and (4) defendant's
conduct was a substantial factor in causing harm to plaintiff.” (Nasrawi v.
Buck Consultants LLC (2014) 231 Cal.App.4th 328, 343.)
Given the
Court’s ruling on the second cause of action, Plaintiffs cannot state a claim
against Defendants for aiding and abetting a breach of fiduciary duty because
there is no alleged breach of a fiduciary duty. The demurrer to the third cause
of action is sustained. 
Fourth
Cause of Action for fraudulent conveyance
 
A fraudulent conveyance is “a transfer
by the debtor of property to a third person undertaken with the intent to
prevent a creditor from reaching that interest to satisfy its claim.” (Yaesu
Electronics Corp. v. Tamura (1994) 28 Cal.App.4th 8, 13, 33.)
 
            Here,
Defendants again argue that this cause of action fails for three reasons: first
because the cause of action is defective for nonjoinder, second, because the
claim is uncertain, and third, because Plaintiffs do not meet the definition of
a creditor under California Civil Code § 3439.01.
 
The Court previously rejected the
demurrer for nonjoinder and does so again on the FAC for the reasons previously
stated. In addition to seeking a money judgment, Plaintiffs seek to void the
transfers, making the transferees indispensable parties. (See, e.g., FAC, ¶ 47
[“Based upon the foregoing, Plaintiffs are entitled to an order that the
above-described transfers, assumption of obligations incurred, and payment of
consideration be set aside and declared void.”].) However, as the claim
contains remedies for both money damages and voiding the transfers, Plaintiffs
have stated a claim – even if Plaintiff ultimately cannot prevail on all
the remedies sought. 
 
Nonetheless, the demurrer is sustained
to the fourth cause of action because Plaintiffs have failed state a claim. 
 
            The
FAC alleges “Plaintiffs have been the holder of certain matured claims and
accrued causes of action against Defendants.” (FAC ¶ 42.) The FAC continues
“[i]n connection with their perpetration of the misconduct identified above,
Defendants, and each of them, actively assisted the Defendants to transfer and
fraudulently convey valuable property rights - including title in valuable real
property and other property.” (FAC ¶ 43.) As the Court has eliminated all of Plaintiffs
claim in the FAC, it is unclear what “matured claim” Plaintiffs hold or what
“misconduct” Plaintiffs is relying on to state a claim. 
 
As with the Complaint, the FAC does not
specify what claim is at issue here with respect to the Cypress Property. There
is no allegation of any judgment, interest, right, or claim to the Cypress
Property that Plaintiffs would have had. Because of the lack of a claim or any
concrete interest in the Cypress Property, Plaintiffs do not fall within the
scope of a creditor for the purposes of this cause of action. The Demurrer
to the fourth cause of action is sustained.
 
Conclusion
 
            The demurrer is sustained in its
entirety. Plaintiff shall have leave to amend. An amended complaint shall be filed
and served by December 1, 2023.
 


