 Case Number:  20STCV21303    Hearing Date:   May 7, 2024    Dept:  78 Superior Court of California County of Los Angeles Department 78  KENNY KAPOOR, et al., Plaintiffs,  vs. ZALFA HALABY, et al., Defendants.  Case No.:  20STCV21303   Hearing Date:  May 7, 2024    [TENTATIVE] RULING RE:  MOTION FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT OR ADJUDICATION FILED BY DEFENDANT FAY SERVICING, LLC TO THE SAC FILED BY THE ELKINS PLAINTIFFS ON MAY 12, 2023Fay Servicing’s motion for summary judgment is DENIED.The Court sets an OSC Re: the Imposition of Sanctions in the amount of $500 against Plaintiff’s Counsel (Gerber) for failure to timely file proof of service with respect to DLM Capital Mortgage Fund LLC named by Doe Amendment on 3/6/24 pursuant to California Rule of Court 3.110(f) for June 11, 2024 at 8:30 a.m.The Court sets an OSC Re: the Imposition of Sanctions in the amount of $500 against Plaintiff’s Counsel (Gerber) for failure to timely file proof of service with respect to Lionscove Fund 1 LLC named by Doe Amendment on 3/6/24 pursuant to California Rule of Court 3.110(f) for June 11, 2024 at 8:30 a.m.The Court sets an OSC Re: the Imposition of Sanctions in the amount of $500 against Plaintiff’s Counsel (Gerber) for failure to timely enter default with respect to DLM Capital Mortgage Fund LLC named by Doe Amendment on 3/6/24 pursuant to California Rule of Court 3.110(g) for June 11, 2024 at 8:30 a.m.The Court sets an OSC Re: the Imposition of Sanctions in the amount of $500 against Plaintiff’s Counsel (Gerber) for failure to timely enter default with respect to Lionscove Fund 1 LLC named by Doe Amendment on 3/6/24 pursuant to California Rule of Court 3.110(g) for June 11, 2024 at 8:30 a.m.The Court sets a status conference regarding the Doe Amendments mentioned above, as well as the addition of Defendant 1Sharpe Opportunity Intermediate Trust via Doe Amendment on 5/2/2024 for June 11, 2024 at 8:30 a.m.Plaintiff’s Counsel (Gerber) is ordered to file a brief at least five court days in advance of June 11, 2024 status conference explaining how all three Doe Amendments (as well as any others filed prior to the filing date) have been properly filed given that this matter has been pending since June 5, 2020.Given the age of this case, the trial date of December 23, 2024, and the plethora of Doe Amendments being filed at a stage in the case when normally there should not be such amendments, all parties are ordered to file an ex parte application alerting the Court to the filing of any Doe Amendment the day after any such amendment is filed.Moving party to provide notice.PROCEDURAL HISTORY On May 12, 2023, Zalfa Halaby Elkins (Z. Elkins), Charles Elkins (C. Elkins), and Rez Properties, LLC (Texas) (Elkins Plaintiffs) filed their Second Amended Complaint (SAC).On June 22, 2023, Defendant Fay Servicing LLC (Fay) filed this motion for summary judgment as to the SAC filed by the Elkins Plaintiffs.On April 3, 2024, the Elkins Plaintiffs filed an opposition and a notice of dismissal of the cause of action for fraud only.On April 12, 2024, Fay filed a reply.DISCUSSIONI. LEGAL STANDARDA party may move for summary judgment “if it is contended that the action has no merit or that there is no defense to the action or proceeding.”  (Code Civ. Proc., section 437c, subd. (a).) “[I]f all the evidence submitted, and all inferences reasonably deducible from the evidence and uncontradicted by other inferences or evidence, show that there is no triable issue as to any material fact and that the moving party is entitled to judgment as a matter of law,” the moving party will be entitled to summary judgment.  (Adler v. Manor Healthcare Corp. (1992) 7 Cal.App.4th 1110, 1119.) A motion for summary adjudication may be made by itself or as an alternative to a motion for summary judgment and shall proceed in all procedural respects as a motion for summary judgment.  (Code Civ. Proc. § 437c, subd. (f)(2).)   The moving party bears an initial burden of production to make a prima facie showing of the nonexistence of any triable issue of material fact, and if he does so, the burden shifts to the opposing party to make a prima facie showing of the existence of a triable issue of material fact.  (Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 850; Code Civ. Proc. § 437c, subd. (p)(2).) On a plaintiff’s motion, the plaintiff must present evidence that would require a reasonable trier of fact to find any underlying material fact more likely than not. (Id. at p.845.) The plaintiff meets his burden of showing that there is no defense to a cause of action if he has proved each element on that cause of action. (Id. at p.849.) The burden then shifts to the defendant to show that a triable issue of one or more material facts exists as to that cause of action or defense. (Id.)“When deciding whether to grant summary judgment, the court must consider all of the evidence set forth in the papers (except evidence to which the court has sustained an objection), as well as all reasonable inferences that may be drawn from that evidence, in the light most favorable to the party opposing summary judgment.” (Avivi v. Centro Medico Urgente Medical Center (2008) 159 Cal.App.4th 463, 467; see also Code Civ. Proc., section 437c(c).) II. JUDICIAL NOTICEFay requests judicial notice of various deeds, notices, and assignments recorded with the Los Angeles County Recorder’s office. Fay also requests judicial notice of the Cross-Complaint and the First Amended Cross-Complaint in this action. The requests are granted. However, the Court notes that request for judicial notice does not comply with Cal. Rules of Court., Rule 3.1113(l) because the request is not a separate document but included in Fay’s compendium of evidence. Nevertheless, the Court will grant Fay’s requests.III. OBJECTIONSThe Elkins Plaintiffs object to the evidence presented by Fay, specifically to portions of the Declaration of Michael Paterno. The following objections are SUSTAINED: 3 (due to lack of foundation/personal knowledge of the circumstances of this case) and 4 (due to lack of foundation/ personal knowledge and improper expert/legal conclusion.) The following objections are OVERRULED: 1 and 2.Fay objects to Movants’ evidence submitted in opposition to the motion for summary judgment.The following objections are SUSTAINED: 1, 2 (as to the contents of the email between Gerber and Poitras), 4, 5 (as to everything but the first sentence), 6, 7, 10, 11, 21, 22 (same as objection no. 2), 24, 25 (as to everything but the first sentence), 26-27. The following objections are OVERRULED: 3, 8, 9, 12-20, 23, 28-40.IV. ANALYSISFay moves for summary judgment as to the causes of action in which it is named, the second cause of action (fraud) and the third cause of action (negligence).  As the fraud cause of action has been dismissed, only the negligence cause of action remains.“The elements of a cause of action for negligence are well established. They are (a) a legal duty to use due care; (b) a breach of such legal duty; [and] (c) the breach as the proximate or legal cause of the resulting injury.” (Ladd v. County of San Mateo (1996) 12 Cal.4th 913, 917, internal quotations omitted.) “The first element, duty, may be imposed by law, be assumed by the defendant, or exist by virtue of a special relationship.” (Doe v. United States Youth Soccer Assn., Inc. (2017) 8 Cal.App.5th 1118, 1128, internal quotations omitted.) “[T]he existence of a duty is a question of law for the court.” (Ky. Fried Chicken of Cal. v. Superior Court (1997) 14 Cal.4th 814, 819.)1. Whether Fay Owed the Elkins A Duty of Care Fay argues that it did not owe the Elkins Plaintiffs a duty of care citing to the cases of Sheen v. Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. (2022) 12 Cal.5th 905 and Nymark v. Heart Fed. Savings & Loan Assn. (1991) 231 Cal.App.3d 1089.)Sheen and Nymark stand for the proposition that in the lender/borrower context a financial institution owes no duty of care to a borrower when the institution’s involvement in the loan transaction does not exceed the scope of its conventional role as a mere lender of money.The Sheen and Nymark decisions by their terms apply when the lender and borrower are in privity. On September 14, 2018, South Shore LLC obtained a commercial loan from Civic Financial Loan LLC for $665,000 (the “Hacienda Loan”) to purchase the real property located at 29231 Hacienda Ranch Court in Valencia, California (the “Hacienda Property”). (Fay’s Separate Statement ¶ 1.)The Hacienda Loan was memorialized in a promissory note signed by Kenny Kapoor. (Fay’s Separate Statement ¶ 2.) The note was by Kenny Kapoor. According to the note, Kapoor signed on behalf of South Shore LLC as its Managing Member. (Fay Exhibit F-1.) The Hacienda Loan was secured by a deed of trust recorded against the Hacienda Property. (Fay Exhibit F-2.) The loan application was completed by Kenny Kapoor. (Fay Exhibit F-3.) Kapoor represented to Civic Financial Loan LLC that he was the sole member and 100% owner of South Shore LLC. (Fay’s Separate Statement ¶ 5.)According to the SAC, Zalfa Halaby Elkins and/or Charles Elkins had an ownership interest in South Shore LLC at all times relevant to the SAC. (SAC ¶¶ 5, 16.) It is undisputed that Defendant Fay was the loan servicer for the Lender who ultimately ended up holding the mortgage on the Hacienda Property.Neither side here presents any legal analysis as to whether the Elkins Plaintiffs were as a matter of law in privity with the mortgage lender here as they were owners of South Shore LLC. From the testimony of Charles Elkins and the LLC paperwork presented by Kapoor to Civil Financial, it is clear that the Elkins Plaintiffs were aware of the Hacienda Loan, and that they temporarily assigned 100% ownership of the LLC to Kapoor so that he could obtain the mortgage as the 100% owner of the LLC at the time that the loan was made.The Court, however, does not need to decide this issue. In the first instance, there was no privity of contract between the Elkins Plaintiffs and Defendant Fay. Defendant Fay does not explain how there is privity of contract but rather asserts that legal conclusion. Moreover, under the circumstances here, the Court cannot say as a matter of law that Fay was acting within its conventional role as mere loan servicer where, as discussed below, there is a triable issue of material fact as to whether Defendant Fay was on put notice as to the dispute over the ownership of the Hacienda Property and the consequences of crediting the $350,000 of the Elkins’ money to pay off the loan which then enabled Clifford Sullivan to purchase the Hacienda Property.Where a plaintiff is a third person not in privity with a defendant, the so-called Biakanja factors described in Biakanja v. Irving (1958) 49 Cal.2d647, 650 may be used to determine the defendant had a duty to exercise reasonable care to avoid negligently causing economic loss to others with whom they were not in privity. (Sheen at p.937.) The involves the balancing of various factors set forth below.1. The extent to which the transaction was intended to affect the plaintiff;2. The foreseeability of harm to the plaintiff;3. The degree of certainty that the plaintiff suffered injury;4. The closeness of the connection between the defendant's conduct and the injury suffered;5. The moral blame attached to the defendant's conduct; and 6. The policy of preventing future harm. Before analyzing these factors, it is important to look at the evidence. Defendant Fay does not present a declaration or any other evidence demonstrating that it was not aware of the dispute over the Hacienda Property at the time that it credited $350,000 sent by the Elkins Plaintiffs to Fay toward the payoff of the loan which enabled Clifford Sullivan to purchase the Hacienda Property. Defendant Fay sidesteps the issue of what it was told by Poitras, an agent of the Lender, or anybody else about the dispute and when. David Poitras, general counsel and corporate counsel for Wedgewood, LLC, testifies that Wedgewood, LLC owns HMC Assets, LLC, the Administrator for the CAM XI Trust, the current owner of the deed of trust originally owned by Civic Financial Services. (Poitras Decl., ¶¶3-5.) Poitras is not employed by Fay and negotiated a proposed loan payoff with Gerber on behalf of the lender, CAM XI Trust (Lender). (Id., ¶¶3-6, 17.) On March 23, 2021, the Elkins Plaintiffs’ counsel, Gerber, emailed Poitras informing Poitras that he represented the Elkins. (Fay Exh. P-1.) Gerber informed Poitras that his clients owned the Hacienda Property and half of South Shore, LLC. (Id.)  Attached to Gerber’s email was a string of emails between Poitras and Sanford Passman, counsel for Kapoor. (Id.) The series of emails shows that since at least October 2020 Passman and Poitras had been communicating about the dispute over the Hacienda Property, including the fact that the parties were engaged in litigation over the Hacienda Property, among other things. The emails indicated that a Notice of Sale of the Hacienda Property had been recorded by the Lender on March 18, 2021, due to a default on the Hacienda Loan.The Lender, through Poitras, accepted the Elkins’ offer to wire an initial payment of $350,000 and pay the balance of the debt on May 25, 2021 in exchange for delaying the trustee sale on the property until May 25, 2021. (Id., Exh. P-2.) After Gerber and Poitras met via telephone, the Elkins elected not to use escrow and instead to pay Fay directly. (Id.) On May 17, 2021, Poitras informed Gerber that $300,000 had been received by Fay from the Elkins and was being held in suspense pending receipt of the full payoff prior to May 25, 2021. (Fay Exh. P-2, Page 6 of 17.)On May 18, 2021, Poitras confirmed to Gerber that Fay was holding $350,000 sent by the Elkins. (Fay Exh. P-2, pg. 5 of 17.)It was clear at this time that the Elkins Plaintiffs were attempting to pay off the loan so that they could retain the Hacienda Property and save it from foreclosure. Indeed, on May 20, 2021, Poitras sent Gerber an updated payoff statement. (Fay Exh. P-2, pg. 4 of 17.)On May 24, 2021, Gerber sent Kapoor an email indicating that his clients needed more time to get the final payment together and asked for a final extension of the foreclosure sale to June 9, 2021. (Fay Exh. P-2, Page 2 of 17.)  On May 24, 2021, the Lender agreed to the extension. (Fay Exh. P-2, Page 2 of 17.) The next day, on May 25, 2021, Poitras informed Gerber that Passman’s client (Kapoor) had opened an escrow on the Hacienda Property. Poitras also told Gerber that Passman was aware of the $350,000 paid by the Elkins as that information was made known by Fay when Kapoor requested the payoff amount for the Hacienda Loan. (Fay Exh. P-2, Page 2 of 17.) On June 2, 2021, Defendant Fay provided a payoff statement to Kapoor. Included in that statement was the Elkins’ $350,000 (listed as a suspense balance). The statement applied the $350,000 towards the outstanding balance when it calculated the total amount needed to pay the loan in full. (Fay Exh. F-10 at Pg. 1.)On June 4, 2021, Poitras learned that the Hacienda Property was sold to a third party, not the Elkins. (Poitras Declaration ¶20.) Thereafter, he learned that the $350,000 paid by the Elkins was included as a credit on the pay off and closing statements. (Id.)Poitras further states that the Lender attempted to cause Fay to retract the June 2, 2021 pay off statement and to issue a new one with the $350,000 credit removed. (Poitras Decl. ¶ 21.)Poitras contends that although there was nothing wrong with the statement issued by Fay since the Elkins had agreed that the $350,000 was nonrefundable, he took these actions to avoid litigation. (Poitras Decl. ¶¶ 21, 14-16.)Poitras’ declaration reveals nothing about his communications with Fay about this matter other than the statements listed above. It does not affirmatively state that Fay had no knowledge about the dispute between the Elkins Plaintiffs and Kapoor over the Hacienda Property prior to June 4, 2021.Similarly, the declaration of Michael Paterno, the Litigation Representative of Fay, sheds no light on when and if Fay knew about the dispute. Paterno represents that “Fay never discussed $350,000 with the Elkins and did not participate in any communications between the Elkins (and/or their attorney) and Mr. Poitras.” (Paterno Decl. ¶ 23.) However, Paterno does not state that Fay was unaware of the course of negotiations between Poitras and Gerber or that there was a dispute between Kapoor and the Elkins.Paterno further states that one June 3, 2021, after the payoff statement was already sent, a representative of the Lender asked Fay to hold off sending the payoff statement due to multiple parties trying to pay on the account. (Decl. ¶ 32.). He adds that on June 4, 2021, Fay received a wire from the First American Title covering the outstanding balance on the loan. (Decl. ¶ 33.).On June 2, 2021 at 3:29 p.m., Julie Cora of Fay emailed David Hernandez of the Lender indicating that the Kapoor was calling for the payoff amount. (Gerber Decl. Exh. C, Fay 001031.) On that same day, Hernandez responded asking that no further payoffs be sent and referring to the dispute between Kapoor and the Elkins. (Id. Fay 001030.)On May 5, 2021, Hernandez advised Kim Kelly of Fay that any funds coming in to pay the Hacienda Loan should be placed in suspense. (Gerber Decl., Exh. J 00000512.)On May 25, 2021, Kim Kelly of Fay asked Eric Wilson of Fay whether it was possible to generate a payoff that did not show the funds in suspense as the funds may need to returned to the sender, meaning the Elkins. (Gerber Decl., Exh. J, WW00000608) Fay argues that the transaction was not intended to benefit the Elkins because the end aim was to delay a foreclosure sale of the Hacienda Property. This argument does not hold water. The evidence above demonstrates that the transaction involving the payment of the $350,000 by the Elkins was to benefit the Elkins. It is preposterous to think that that the Elkins would agree to give $350,000 towards the sale of the Hacienda Property by Kapoor in whom they were locked in litigation. Even the Lender recognized that the money should not have been applied against the Hacienda Loan in these circumstances. (Gerber Decl., Exh. J WW 00000837 6/7/21 Email from Poitras to Passman: “neither the buyer nor your client has any right to benefit from the funds Halaby wired.”)Further, the Elkins provide emails between employees of Wedgewood and Fay showing Wedgewood informed Fay that the funds paid by the Elkins being held in suspense were to be handled separately (Gerber Decl., Exh. J, WW_00000805, WW_00000809, WW_00000815, pdf p. 193, 197, 203.) After the funds were mistakenly applied to the payoff requested by Kapoor, the Lender instructed Fay to send a shortage quote to First American Title and withhold the Deed of Trust until South Shore paid the $350,000 shortage. (Id., p. 209-210.) It is reasonable to infer from these communications that Fay, under instructions from Poitras, intended the $350,000 paid by the Elkins to benefit the Elkins because Fay was to treat the funds separately and not apply the funds to a payoff requested by Kapoor. Fay argues that the harm to the Elkins was not foreseeable because Fay was not a party to any agreement between the Elkins and Poitras, Poitras only agreed to allow the Elkins until May 25, 2021 to pay the loan, there was never an agreement to refund the funds, and the sale from South Shore to Sullivan occurred after the Elkins paid Fay. Fay’s evidence is insufficient to prove that it was not aware of the payoff arrangement between Elkins and Lender. First, although Poitras’s testimony is sufficient to show he was not an employee of Fay, Poitras does not testify that he never communicated with Fay about the agreement between Lender and the Elkins. Although Paterno’s testimony is sufficient to show Fay was not involved in negotiations, Paterno again does not testify that Fay was unaware of Lender’s agreement with the Elkins. Finally, by the time Wedgewood LLC requested that Fay hold off on sending the payoff statement, it is reasonable to infer that Fay was on notice that there were multiple parties attempting to pay off the loan and that the payoff was disputed. Moreover, as discussed above, the Elkins provide evidence that Lender had instructed Fay to handle the funds separately well before it received the funds from First American Title. Even if the Elkins had failed to pay off the loan as agreed and there was no agreement to refund the money advanced, the evidence shows that Fay and Lender were aware there was a dispute over payoff and that the funds paid by the Elkins were to be handled separately and must certainly not applied to payoff involving Kapoor. Therefore, it was foreseeable that the Elkins would lose the money they advanced to pay off the loan if it was credited towards payoff for another party competing to pay off the loan. The Elkins provide evidence that Fay knew before First American paid off the loan that the Kapoor and the Elkins were feuding over the property and Kapoor was attempting to sell the Hacienda property despite a title dispute. (Gerber Decl., Exh. C, FAY 001030, Exh. J, WW_00000809, pdf p.24, 197.)) Thus, Fay knew about the dispute over the Hacienda property, knew that the Elkins and Kapoor were competing to pay off the loan, and thus knew the Elkins would lose their payment if it was applied as set forth in the payoff statement issued to Kapoor. This factor weighs in favor of a finding that Fay owed the Elkins a duty of care.The third and fourth factors also weigh in favor of a finding that Fay owed the Elkins a duty of care. There is no question that the Elkins lost the $350,000 they paid to Fay for payoff because Fay applied that amount to the payoff statement issued to Kapoor. Thereafter, Sullivan paid the remaining debt when he bought the Hacienda property from South Shore. Fay provides no evidence that the Elkins received funds from the sale or that they were not injured as a result of Fay applying the funds to the payoff statement issued to Kapoor.Finally, the fifth and sixth factors weighs in favor of a finding that Fay owed the Elkins a duty of care. The evidence shows that Fay knew of a dispute involving the loan for the Hacienda Property and yet proceeded when the loss that ensued might have been easily prevented had Fay consulted with the Lender prior to sending out a payout statement crediting the $350,000 toward the balance owed on the loan and accepting the payoff funds sent by First American. The Biakanja factors weigh in favor of a finding that Fay owed a duty of care to prevent the Elkins’ harm, even if the harm was purely economic. Fay fails to meet its burden of proving that Fay as a matter of law owed no duty of care in this particular factual scenario.2. Whether Fay Breached its Duty of CareFay next argues that it did not breach a duty of care to the Elkins. Fay alleges that it merely held the funds paid by the Elkins until it received sufficient funds to pay off the loan. Additionally, even if the Elkins had paid the loan in full, this would not have prevented South Shore from selling the Hacienda Property to Sullivan. As discussed above, Fay owed a duty of care to prevent the Elkins’ harm. Fay fails to provide any evidence showing that it was not aware of Lender’s agreement to allow the Elkins to pay off the loan. At minimum, by June 3, 2021, one day before it applied First American Title’s payoff to the loan, Fay was on notice that multiple parties were attempting to pay off the loan. If Fay knew about the Elkins and Kapoor’s competing requests to pay off the loan, it is reasonable to infer that Fay would have had a duty of reasonable care not to apply the Elkins’ funds to Kapoor’s payoff attempt and vice versa to prevent harm to the parties involved in this transaction. Even if both Kapoor and the Elkins were members of South Shore, LLC, it is common sense that funds dedicated to the Elkins’ payoff agreement should not be credited to Kapoor’s payoff if the parties were disputing payoff and ownership of the property. The Elkins still suffered harm because they lost the funds they advanced to pay off the loan.Therefore, Fay fails to meet its burden of proving no triable issue of material fact remains over whether it breached its duty of ordinary care when it applied the funds paid by the Elkins to Kapoor’s payoff of the loan on the Hacienda property.  Fay’s motion for summary judgment is denied on this ground.3. Whether the Elkins’ Claims are Barred by the Voluntary Payment DoctrineFay next argues that the Elkins’ claims are barred by the voluntary payment doctrine. Under the voluntary payment doctrine, if a party makes a payment voluntarily, with knowledge of the facts, the payment cannot later be recovered.  (Steinman v. Malamed (2010) 185 Cal.App.4th 1550, 1557-58.) Here, Fay alleges the Elkins paid $350,000 in consideration for a delay of foreclosure and with knowledge of their ongoing dispute and litigation with Kapoor concerning ownership of the Hacienda Property. However, Fay fails to provide evidence of whether the Elkins knew the facts, including that the funds would be applied to another party’s request for payoff. Fay merely points to evidence that the Elkins negotiated a payoff with the Lender and paid $350,000. Because there is no evidence that the Elkins knew the facts concerning how the funds were in fact used, Fay fails to meet its burden of proving no triable issues of material fact remain over whether the Elkins’ claims are barred under the voluntary payment doctrine. The burden does not shift to the Elkins.Summary judgment is denied on this ground.4. Whether Fay is Liable Under any Conspiracy TheoryFay finally moves for summary judgment on the grounds that it is not liable under any conspiracy theory. However, the issue of whether Fay conspired with other Cros-Defendants to commit negligence is not dispositive of any cause of action. Summary judgment or adjudication may only be granted if the motion completely resolves a cause of action, an affirmative defense, a claim for damages, or an issue of duty unless the parties jointly stipulate to adjudication of an issue. (Code Civ. Proc., §§437c(f)(1), 437c(t); See's Candy Shops, Inc. v Superior Court (2012) 210 CA4th 889, 899–900.) Here, the parties have not agreed to adjudicate the issue of whether Fay is liable under a conspiracy theory. The Court declines to rule on this issue.DATED: May 7, 2024                                                                        ___________________________ Hon. Jill FeeneyJudge of the Superior Court 