 Case Number:  20STCV10464    Hearing Date:   May 7, 2024    Dept:  78 Superior Court of California County of Los Angeles Department 78  XIAOXING ZHANG, Plaintiff, vs.ZHE ZHANG, et al. Defendants. Case No.: 20STCV10464 Hearing Date: May 7, 2024 [TENTATIVE] RULING RE: PLAINTIFF XIAOXING ZHANG’S MOTION TO SET ASIDE ORDER ON PLAINTIFF’S MOTION FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT AND FOR LEAVE TO FILE SECOND MOTION FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENTPlaintiff Xiaoxing Zhang’s motion to set aside the order denying summary judgment is GRANTED.Plaintiff’s motion for leave to file a second motion for summary judgment is DENIED as unnecessary.Moving party to provide notice and to file proof of service of such notice.PROCEDURAL HISTORYOn December 4, 2023, the Court denied Plaintiff’s motion for summary judgment on the grounds that Plaintiff failed to attach the evidence he cited in the moving papers and failed to provide a separate statement. On February 9, 2024, Plaintiff filed this motion to set aside the order denying his motion for summary judgment.DISCUSSION Plaintiff moves to set aside the December 4, 2024 order denying Plaintiff’s motion for summary judgment on the grounds that the order was entered as a result of Plaintiff’s counsel’s mistake, inadvertence, or inexcusable neglect.Per Code of Civil Procedure, section 473, subdivision (b), a court may relieve a party or his counsel from a judgment, dismissal, or order against him because of his “mistake, inadvertence, or excusable neglect.” A party seeking relief must file a motion to set aside dismissal “no more than six months after entry of judgment, is in proper form, and is accompanied by an attorney's sworn affidavit attesting to his or her mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or neglect, vacate any (1) resulting default entered by the clerk against his or her client, and which will result in entry of a default judgment, or (2) resulting default judgment or dismissal entered against his or her client, unless the court finds that the default or dismissal was not in fact caused by the attorney's mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or neglect.” (Code Civ. Proc. section 473) And when such relief is available, “there is a strong public policy in favor of granting relief and allowing the requesting party his or her day in court.” (Rappleyea v. Campbell (1994) 8 Cal.4th 975, 981-982, internal quotations omitted.)Here, Plaintiff’s counsel testifies that he failed to attach the separate statement and supporting evidence to Plaintiff’s motion for summary judgment. (Tatone Decl., ¶6.) Because Plaintiff’s motion for summary judgment was denied due to his counsel’s mistake, the motion to set aside the order denying summary judgment is granted.Plaintiff also moves for leave to file a second motion for summary judgment. This motion is denied as unnecessary. There is no statute requiring the Court’s leave to file a second motion for summary judgment and in any event CCP Section 437c(f)(2) references situations involving new evidence.  The Court notes that trial in this matter is scheduled for June 17, 2024. A party moving for summary judgment must give 75 days of notice before the hearing on the motion. (Code Civ. Proc., section 437c(a). The motion must be heard 30 days before the trial date. (Code Civ. Proc., section 437c(a).) Here, the deadline for Plaintiff to file a motion for summary judgment passed on March 4, 2024. Plaintiff waited two months after the denial of the motion for summary judgment on December 4, 2023 to file the motion to set aside. Had Plaintiff acted promptly there would have been sufficient time to have a ruling on the motion to set aside and still file a second motion for summary judgment timely. Moreover, in any event, Plaintiff could have simultaneously filed the motion to set aside and a second motion for summary judgment.   Plaintiff’s request for leave to file a second motion for summary judgment is denied as unnecessary.DATED: May 7, 2024                                                                      ________________________________        Hon. Jill Feeney                                                                         Judge of the Superior Court 