 Case Number:  23STLC02721    Hearing Date:   December 12, 2024    Dept:  25 HEARING DATE:    Thurs., December 12, 2024                            JUDGE /DEPT:        Mkrtchyan/25
CASE NAME:           Martinez
Santiago v. Poindexter                    COMP.
FILED:        04-21-23
CASE NUMBER:     23STLC02721                                    
           TRIAL DATE:          N/A

NOTICE:                   OK                                                                  
                                                                                    

 
PROCEEDINGS:     MOTION
TO SET ASIDE ENTRY OF DEFAULT AND DEFAULT JUDGMENT
 
MOVING PARTY:   Defendant
Donald Poindexter
RESP. PARTY:         Plaintiff Virgilo Martinez Santiago
 
MOTION TO SET ASIDE DEFAULT AND DEFAULT JUDGMENT
(CCP §§ 473(b); 473.5)
 
TENTATIVE RULING:
 
Defendant Donald Poindexter’s Motion
to Set Aside the Default and Default Judgment is DENIED WITHOUT PREJUDICE. 
 
Moving party is ordered to
give notice. 
 
COURT WILL CALL THE
MATTER TO HELD THE OSC TODAY
 
_______________________________________________________________________
 
SERVICE:  
 
[X] Proof of
Service Timely Filed (CRC, rule 3.1300)                      OK
[X] Correct Address
(CCP §§ 1013, 1013a)                                      OK 
[X] 16/21 Court
Days Lapsed (CCP §§ 12c, 1005(b))                       OK 
 
OPPOSITION:          Filed
on November 27, 2024                                      [  ] Late           [  ] None
REPLY:                     None
filed as of December 9, 2024                            [  ]
Late           [X] None
 
ANALYSIS:
 
I.                   
Background

 
On April 21, 2023, Plaintiff Virgilo
Martinez Santiago (“Plaintiff”) initiated this action against Defendant Donald
Poindexter (“Defendant”) and Does 1-20, alleging a single cause of action for Negligence.
(Compl., p. 1.) 
 
On February 29, 2024, Plaintiff filed
proof of service of the Summons and Complaint and accompanying papers on
Defendant by substitute service. (2/29/24 Proof of Service, ¶¶ 2, 5.)
 
On March 6, 2024, default was entered
against Defendant. (3/6/24 Request for Entry of Default.) 
 
On October 11, 2024, Plaintiff dismissed
Does 1-20 without prejudice (10/11/24 Request for Dismissal) and filed
declarations in support of default judgment by the Court (10/11/24 Declarations
in Support of Default Judgment).
 
            On
October 14-15, 2024, Plaintiff filed two Requests for Entry of Default Judgment
against Defendant. 
 
On October 11, 2024, Defendant filed
the instant Notice of Motion and Motion to Set Aside Entry of Default Judgment
Against Defendant (the “Motion”). 
 
On October 15, 2024, the Court
rejected Plaintiff’s two Requests for Entry of Default Judgment filed on
October 14-15, 2024, for various deficiencies. 
 
On November 27, 2024, Plaintiff filed
an Opposition.
 
No Reply has been filed.
 
On December 6, 2024, Plaintiff filed a
Notice of Defendant’s Non-Reply to Motion to Set Aside Entry of Default
Judgment, informing the Court that a Reply to the Opposition was neither filed
nor received by Plaintiff, and any reply filed and served should be considered
“late filed and disregarded as Plaintiff would have been greatly prejudiced.”
(Notice of Non-Reply, p. 2.) 
 
II.                
Procedural
Issues
 
As an initial matter, the Court notes
Defendant served the Motion via electronic service only.
 
Next, the Court notes Defendant failed
to attach a reservation receipt for the Motion hearing.
 
Third, the Court notes the Motion
requests relief from the entry of default and default judgment. Although
default judgment had been requested at the time Defendant filed the
instant Motion, only default has been entered against Defendant at this time. Thus,
the Court only addresses the Motion as it pertains to the default entered
against Defendant on March 6, 2024. 
 
Finally, the Court notes Defendant
failed to attach a copy of the proposed Answer or other pleading to the Motion. (Code Civ. Proc., § 473,
subd. (b).)
 
 
 
III.             
Legal
Standard 
 
The court has broad discretion to
vacate the entry of default, default judgment, or a dismissal where the moving
party timely establishes a proper ground for relief.  (Cruz v. Fagor America, Inc. (2007)
146 Cal.App.4th 488, 495.)  Code of Civil Procedure section 473,
subdivision (b) contains two distinct provisions for relief from default. 
The first provision is discretionary and broad in scope, providing: “The court
may, upon any terms as may be just, relieve a party or his or her legal
representative from a judgment, dismissal, order, or other proceeding taken
against him or her through his or her mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or
excusable neglect.  Application for this relief shall be accompanied by a
copy of the answer or other pleading proposed to be filed therein, otherwise
the application shall not be granted, and shall be made within a reasonable
time, in no case exceeding six months, after the judgment, dismissal, order, or
proceeding was taken.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 473, subd. (b).) 
 
The second provision of Code of
Civil Procedure section 473, subdivision (b) is mandatory, providing: “[T]he
court shall, whenever an application for relief is made no more than six months
after entry of judgment, is in proper form, and is accompanied by an attorney’s
sworn affidavit attesting to his or her mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or
neglect, vacate any (1) resulting default entered by the clerk against his or
her client, and which will result in entry of a default judgment, or (2)
resulting default judgment or dismissal entered against his or her client,
unless the court finds that the default or dismissal was not in fact caused by
the attorney’s mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or neglect. The court shall,
whenever relief is granted based on an attorney’s affidavit of fault, direct
the attorney to pay reasonable compensatory legal fees and costs to opposing
counsel or parties. However, this section shall not lengthen the time within
which an action shall be brought to trial pursuant to Section 583.310.” (Code
Civ. Proc., § 473, subd. (b).)
 
The
general underlying purpose of Code of Civil Procedure section 473,
subdivision (b) is to promote the determination of actions on their merits. (Even
Zohar Const. & Remodeling, Inc. v. Bellaire Townhouses, LLC (2015)
61 Cal.4th 830, 838-839.)  
 
IV.             
Discussion
 
A.    
Moving Party
Position
 
Defendant moves to set aside the entry of default and
default judgment on the grounds of attorney mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or neglect. Specifically, Defendant contends Defendant’s
counsel failed to timely respond to the Complaint because (1) Defendant’s
counsel “neglected to contact Defendant from the time the Complaint was filed
until the default was taken to determine if Defendant had been properly served
with the Complaint,” and (2) Defendant’s counsel neglected to ensure
Defendant’s counsel’s firm was “sufficiently monitoring the County of Los
Angeles Superior Court docket to determine if and when the Complaint was served
on Defendant.” (Motion, p. 5; Motion Cai Decl., ¶¶ 5-6.) As a result of Defendant’s counsel’s mistake
and neglect, default was entered against Defendant “which could have been
prevented had counsel properly communicated with Defendant to determine if they
were served with the Complaint prior to the default being entered.” (Cai Decl., ¶ 7; Motion, p. 5.) 
 
Defendant’s counsel further
states he has been “unable to contact Defendant and is still in the process of
locating the Defendant” (Motion, p. 5; Cai Decl., ¶ 8); then, Defendant’s counsel states
“because counsel has established contact with defendant, the best course of
action is to seek to set aside the default judgment with the litigation against
the defendant who has personal knowledge of the event.” (Motion, p. 5.)
 
Finally, Defendant’s counsel
states counsel “attempted to contact the Plaintiff’s counsel in an attempt to
resolve this issue via stipulation but the Plaintiff’s counsel did not
respond.” (Cai Decl., ¶
9.) 
 
B.    
Opposition
 
In Opposition, Plaintiff contends the Notice of Motion is
deficient because it fails to state it “is predicated on the ‘affidavit of
fault’ provisions” of Code of Civil Procedure section 473. (Opp., pp. 6-7.) Further,
Plaintiff contends Defendant’s Motion is untimely, as it was filed more than
six months after entry of default. (Opp., p. 7; Opp. Hoonanian Decl., ¶ 3.)
Plaintiff also highlights the Motion fails to include a proposed Answer or
other response and is therefore improper for any relief. (Motion, pp. 7-8; Opp.
Hoonanian Decl., ¶ 4.) Additionally, Plaintiff alleges Defendant erroneously
states default judgment has been entered against Defendant when just default
has been entered against Defendant. (Opp. Hoonanian Decl., ¶¶ 3, 7, Exh. 4.)
 
Plaintiff’s counsel also notes he received
an email from Defendant’s counsel on October 10, 2024, requesting that
Plaintiff stipulate to set aside the default. (Opp.
Hoonanian Decl., ¶ 8,
Exh. 4.) Plaintiff responded to the email, requesting an explanation as to the
delay in moving to set aside the default. (Opp.
Hoonanian Decl., ¶ 9, Exh.
5.) 
 
Assuming arguendo that the Motion is not barred due to
timeliness or procedural deficiencies, Plaintiff argues the Motion should be
denied as it fails to meet the criteria for discretionary relief. (Motion, pp.
8-10.) Plaintiff asserts discretionary, not mandatory, relief is applicable
here because Defendant failed to raise an attorney affidavit of fault in the
Motion caption. (Motion, p. 8.) As to discretionary relief based on mistake,
inadvertence, surprise, or excusable neglect, Plaintiff argues neglect of
counsel is imputed to the client absent relief under the affidavit of fault
provisions, and Defendant/Defendant’s counsel failed to show due diligence in
bringing this Motion within a reasonable amount of time. (Motion, pp. 8-10.) Plaintiff’s
counsel notes Defendant was served on June 21, 2023. (Opp. Hoonanian Decl., ¶ 12.)
 
In the event relief for Defendant is granted, Plaintiff
requests fees and costs in the amount of $4,350.00 to file and appear on this
Motion. (Opp. Hoonanian Decl., ¶ 14.) 
 
C.    
Reply
 
Defendant did not file a Reply.
 
D.   
Analysis 
 
Timeliness
 
As an initial matter, the Court notes the Motion was
filed on October 11, 2024. A default judgment has not yet been entered in this
matter as to moving party. 
 
 Here, Defendant
raises a claim for relief due to mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or neglect by an attorney. (Code Civ. Proc., § 473, subd. (b).)  Defendant’s
attorney, Wenquian Cai, submitted a declaration in support of the Motion admitting neglect and
mistake by counsel in failing to act upon Plaintiff’s Complaint. (Cai Decl.,
¶¶ 5-8)
 
Since Defendant’s default judgment has
not yet been entered in this matter, the Motion is timely as it pertains to a
request for mandatory relief from default. (Code Civ. Proc., § 473, subd. (b).) 
However, the Court notes that a proposed Answer has not been filed, although it
is referenced in the Notice. 
 
Accordingly, the Motion to vacate default under Code of
Civil Procedure 473 subdivision (b) is DENIED WITHOUT PREJUDICE.
 
V.               
Conclusion
& Order
 
For the foregoing reasons, Defendant
Donald Poindexter’s Motion to Set Aside the Default and Default Judgment
is DENIED WITHOUT PREJUDICE. 
 
Moving party is ordered to
give notice. 
 
 