 Case Number:  24STLC05729    Hearing Date:   December 12, 2024    Dept:  25 HEARING DATE:    Thurs., December 12, 2024                            JUDGE /DEPT:        Mkrtchyan/25
CASE NAME:           Guardado
v. Hawthorne Auto Square, Inc.,
                                    et al.
CASE NUMBER:     24STLC05729                        
                       PET. FILED:             09-24-24

NOTICE:                   OK                                                                  
                                                                                                            

 
PROCEEDINGS:     MOTION
TO COMPEL ARBITRATION AND REQUEST FOR STAY
 
MOVING PARTY:   Plaintiff
Rosalba Guardado  
RESP. PARTY:         None 

 
MOTION TO COMPEL ARBITRATION AND STAY
PROCEEDINGS
(CCP § 1281.2, et seq.)
 
TENTATIVE RULING:
 
Plaintiff Rosalba Guardado’s Motion to Compel Arbitration, For
Court to Pick Arbitration Forum, and Request for Stay is GRANTED as to Defendants
Hawthorne Auto Square, Inc. and The Golden 1 Credit Union. The matter is
to be arbitrated before the AAA or, in the alternative, another reputable
arbitration organization.
 
Pursuant
to Code of Civil Procedure section 1281.4, all proceedings are STAYED pending
the outcome of arbitration.
 
Post-arbitration
status conference is scheduled for August 14, 2025 at 9:30 a.m. in Department
25 of the Spring Street Courthouse.
 
The Parties
are ordered to submit a Status of Arbitration Report 5 days before next
hearing.  
 
The
02/06/2026 Trial is hereby taken off calendar, and the 08/13/2027 Order to Show
Cause Re:  Proof of Service is hereby
discharged.
 
Moving party is ordered to
give notice. 
 
SERVICE:  
 
[X] Proof of Service Timely Filed (CRC, rule 3.1300)                      OK 
[X] Correct Address (CCP §§ 1013, 1013a)                                      OK 
[X] 16/21 Court Days Lapsed (CCP §§ 12c, 1005(b))                       OK 
 
OPPOSITION:          None
filed as of December 9, 2024                [   ]
Late                      [X] None
REPLY:                     None
filed as of December 9, 2024                [   ]
Late                      [X] None
 
 
ANALYSIS:
 
I.                   
Background
 
 
In August 2021, Plaintiff Rosalba Guardado (“Plaintiff”)
purchased a vehicle from Hawthorne Auto Square, Inc. (“Hawthorne Auto”).
(Compl., ¶ 16.) Plaintiff
and Hawthorne Auto entered into a vehicle Retail Installment Sales Contract
(the “Contract”) at the time of the purchase. (Compl., ¶ 27; Guardado Decl., Exh. 1.) After the sale,
the Contract was assigned to The Golden 1 Credit Union (“Golden 1 Credit”). (Compl. ¶ 42; Guardado Decl., ¶
4.) Plaintiff contends that Hawthorne Auto misrepresented the “history, safety,
open recall and/or condition” of the vehicle, and Plaintiff has “been damaged
and suffered a loss as a result.” 
(Compl., ¶¶ 17, 21, 23-25, 31, 33, 44.) 
 
On February 7, 2024, Plaintiff’s
counsel sent a pre-filing demand later to Hawthorne Auto and Golden 1 Credit on
behalf of Plaintiff. (Heydari
Decl., ¶ 3, Exh. 1.) Plaintiff “received no agreement to arbitrate from
Defendants within 30 days of the receipt of Plaintiff’s letter.” (Motion, p. 4.) 
 
On August 9, 2024, Plaintiff filed this action against Hawthorne
Auto and Golden 1 Credit (“Defendants”) and Does 1-40. (Compl., p. 1.) The
Complaint alleged causes of action for Violation of Consumers Remedies Act,
Civil Code section 1750, et seq.; Violation of California Business and
Professions Code section 17200, et seq.; and Claim Against Surety. (Compl., p. 1.) 
 
On August 23, 2024, Plaintiff amended the Complaint to add the true name
of Doe 31 as Hudson Insurance Company (“Hudson”).
 
On September 24, 2024, Plaintiff filed
the instant “Motion to Compel Arbitration, For Court to Pick Arbitration Forum,
and Request for Stay” (the “Motion”) against Defendants. 
 
On September 30, 2024, Plaintiff filed
three proofs of service demonstrating service of the Summons and Complaint on Defendants
and Hudson.
 
On October 15, 2024, Plaintiff filed three proofs of service
demonstrating proper service of the Motion and accompanying documents (and the August
23, 2024 amendment to the Complaint to add Doe 31) on Defendants and Hudson.
 
II.                
Legal
Standard
 
California law incorporates
many of the basic policy objectives contained in the Federal Arbitration Act,
including a presumption in favor of arbitrability. (Engalla v.
Permanente Medical Group, Inc. (1997) 15 Cal.4th 951, 971-72.) The
petitioner bears the burden of proving the existence of a valid arbitration
agreement by the preponderance of the evidence, the party opposing the petition
then bears the burden of proving by a preponderance of the evidence any fact
necessary to demonstrate that there should be no enforcement of the agreement,
and the trial court sits as a trier of fact to reach a final determination on
the issue. (Rosenthal v. Great Western Financial Securities Corp. (1996)
14 Cal.4th 394, 413 (“Rosenthal”).) The Court is empowered by the Code
of Civil Procedure section 1281.2 to compel parties to arbitrate disputes
pursuant to an agreement to do so.   
 
            Code
of Civil Procedure section 1281.2 states: 

 
“On petition of a party to an arbitration agreement
alleging the existence of a written agreement to arbitrate a controversy and
that a party thereto refuses to arbitrate such controversy, the court shall
order the petitioner and the respondent to arbitrate the controversy if it
determines that an agreement to arbitrate the controversy exists, unless it
determines that: 


            (a)
The right to compel arbitration has been waived by the petitioner; or 
            (b)
Grounds exist for the revocation of the agreement. 
(c) A party to the
arbitration agreement is also a party to a pending court action or special
proceeding with a third party, arising out of the same transaction or series of
related transactions and there is a possibility of conflicting rulings on a
common issue of law or fact. For purposes of this section, a pending court
action or special proceeding includes an action or proceeding initiated by the
party refusing to arbitrate after the petition to compel arbitration has been
filed, but on or before the date of the hearing on the petition. This
subdivision shall not be applicable to an agreement to arbitrate disputes as to
the professional negligence of a health care provider made pursuant to Section
1295.”  
 
(Code of Civ.
Proc., §§ 1281.2(a)-(c).)  
 
            The
petition to compel arbitration functions as a motion and is to be heard in the
manner of a motion – namely, the facts are to be proven by affidavit or
declaration and documentary evidence with oral testimony taken only in the
court’s discretion. (Code of Civ. Proc., §
1290; Rosenthal, supra, 14 Cal.4th at p. 402.) The
petition to compel must set forth the provisions of the written agreement and
the arbitration clause verbatim, or such provisions must be attached and
incorporated by reference. (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1330.) 
 
            If
the court orders arbitration, then the court shall stay the action until “an
arbitration is had in accordance with the order to arbitrate or until such
earlier time as the court specifies.” 
(See Code of Civ. Proc., § 1281.4.)          
 
III.             
Discussion
 
Arbitration Agreement
 
Plaintiff brings the instant Motion
seeking to compel Defendants to submit to arbitration based on the Contract.
The Court notes Plaintiff does not seek to compel Hudson to submit to
arbitration.
 
“Under both the
[Federal Arbitration Act] and California law, arbitration agreements are valid,
irrevocable, and enforceable, except upon such grounds that exist at law or
equity for voiding a contract.” (Winter
v. Window Fashions Professions, Inc. (2008) 166 Cal.App.4th 943, 947.) The
party moving to compel arbitration must establish the existence of a written
arbitration agreement between the parties. (Code of Civ. Proc., § 1281.2.) In
ruling on a motion to compel arbitration, “the court must first determine
whether the parties actually agreed to arbitrate the dispute,” and “[g]eneral
principles of California contract law help guide the court in making this
determination.” (Mendez v. Mid-Wilshire
Health Care Center (2013) 220 Cal.App.4th 534, 541.) 
 
Here, Plaintiff presents evidence of
the Contract, which includes a section called “Arbitration Provision.” (Heydari
Decl., ¶ 4, Exh. 2;
Guardado Decl., ¶ 3, Exh.
1.) The Contract was signed by Plaintiff and Hawthorne Auto (Heydari Decl., Exh
2; Guardado Decl., Exh. 1) and subsequently assigned to Golden 1 Credit.
(Motion, p. 6; Guardado Decl., ¶ 4.) The Arbitration Provision provides in pertinent part: 
 
“Any claim or dispute, whether in contract, tort,
statute, or otherwise (including the 
interpretation and scope of this Arbitration Provision,
and the arbitrability of the claim or 
dispute), between you and us or our employees, agents,
successors or assigns, which arises out of or relates to your credit
application, purchase or condition of this vehicle, this contract or any other
resulting transaction or relationship (including any such relationship with
third parties who do not sign this contract) shall, at you or our election, be
resolved by neutral binding arbitration and not by a court action. If federal
law provides that a claim or dispute is not subject to binding arbitration, this
Arbitration Provision shall not apply to such claim or dispute. Any claim or
dispute is to be arbitrated by a single arbitrator on an individual basis and
not as a class action. You expressly waive any right you may have to arbitrate
a class action. You may choose the American Arbitration Association, 1633
Broadway, 10th Floor, New York, New York 10019 (www.adr.org), or any other organization to conduct the arbitration subject to our
approval.”
 
(Heydari Decl., Exh. 2; Guardado Decl., Exh. 1.)
 
No Opposition has been filed.
 
The Court finds that Plaintiff has
met Plaintiff’s burden of proving the existence of a valid arbitration
agreement. Plaintiff submitted a copy of the Contract and Arbitration Provision
to the Court, and neither Hawthorne Auto nor Golden 1 Credit dispute they are
part of the agreement. The Arbitration Provision states it applies to “Any claim or dispute, whether in
contract, tort, statute, or otherwise (including the interpretation and scope
of this Arbitration Provision, and the arbitrability of the claim or dispute),
between you and us or our employees, agents, successors or assigns, which
arises out of or relates to your credit application, purchase or condition of
this vehicle, this contract or any other resulting transaction or relationship
(including any such relationship with third parties who do not sign this
contract).” (Heydari
Decl., Exh. 2; Guardado Decl., Exh. 1.) The Arbitration Provision specifically
applies to Plaintiff’s claims against Defendants, given that the causes of
action arise out of the Contract and the condition of the vehicle. (Compl.; Motion,
Heydari Decl., Exh. 2; Guardado Decl., Exh. 1.)
 
Plaintiff alleges
the parties have been unable to come to an agreement regarding arbitration
(Motion, p. 4) and demonstrated the parties agreed to arbitrate the dispute
through the American Arbitration Association (“AAA”) or another arbitration
organization. Indeed, the Arbitration Provision states: “Any claim or dispute is to be
arbitrated by a single arbitrator on an individual basis and not as a class
action. You expressly waive any right you may have to arbitrate a class action.
You may choose the American Arbitration Association, 1633 Broadway, 10th Floor,
New York, New York 10019 (www.adr.org), or any other organization to
conduct the arbitration subject to our approval.”  (Heydari
Decl., Exh. 2; Guardado Decl., Exh. 1.) Plaintiff elects AAA as the arbitration
forum in this matter (Motion, p. 5), and Defendants have not indicated they do
not approve of the AAA. 
 
In light of these circumstances, it is necessary for the
Court to intervene and compel Defendants to arbitration before AAA or another
reputable arbitration organization.
 
Thus, the Court
finds that an Arbitration Agreement exists between the parties, and there is
presently no defense to its enforcement. The matter is to be arbitrated
before the AAA or, in the alternative, another reputable arbitration
organization.
 
            Costs
and Fees
 
            Plaintiff
does not request an award of costs and fees incurred in conjunction with
bringing this Motion, and thus the Court need not address costs and fees.
 
IV.             
Conclusion
& Order
 
For the foregoing reasons, Plaintiff
Rosalba Guardado’s Motion
to Compel Arbitration, For Court to Pick Arbitration Forum, and Request for
Stay is GRANTED as to Defendants Hawthorne Auto Square, Inc. and The Golden 1
Credit Union. 
 
The matter is to
be arbitrated before the AAA or, in the alternative, another reputable
arbitration organization.
 
Pursuant
to Code of Civil Procedure section 1281.4, all proceedings are STAYED pending
the outcome of arbitration. 
 
 
Post-arbitration
status conference is scheduled for August 14, 2025 at 9:30 a.m. in Department
25 of the Spring Street Courthouse.
 
Parties
are ordered to submit a Status of Arbitration Report 5 days before next
hearing.  
 
The
02/06/2026 Trial is hereby taken off calendar, and the 08/13/2027 Order to Show
Cause Re:  Proof of Service is hereby
discharged.
 
Moving party is ordered to
give notice. 
 