  Case Number:  20STCV45139    Hearing Date:   February 13, 2024    Dept:  76             Plaintiff
alleges that he suffered retaliation for voicing safety concerns at various
worksites involving the operation of heavy machinery.  
            Defendant
City of Los Angeles doing business by and through its Department of Water and
Power moves to compel further responses to form interrogatories – general, set
one and employment, set one, as well as to requests for production of
documents, set one.
TENTATIVE RULING
            Defendant
City of Los Angeles doing business by and through its Department of Water and
Power’s motions to compel further responses to form interrogatories – general,
set one and employment, set one, as well as to requests for production of
documents, set one are deemed to be MOOT.
            The
Court finds that the appropriate amount of sanctions is $1,360 per motion, for
a total of $4,080 against Plaintiff and his attorneys of record, Bradford T.
Child, Esq. of Child & Marton LLP, jointly and severally.
            Sanctions
are to be paid to Defendant’s counsel within 30 days.
DISCUSSION
Motion To Compel Further
Responses To Form Interrogatories – General, Set One, Form Interrogatories –
Employment, Set One, and Request For Production of Documents, Set One
Analysis
            On
April 18, 2023, Plaintiff served responses. The Declaration of Rebecca
M. Gabroy erroneously refers to April 8, 2023 as the date on which Plaintiff
served responses, but the June 2, 2023 deadline to which Gabroy refers appears
to be measured by service of responses on April 18, 2023—a date confirmed in
the Opposition.
            On June 2,
2023, Defendant filed and served the motions on this date, which is the
deadline for bringing motions to compel further.
            On
September 29, or October 2, 2023, Plaintiff served further responses to the
subject written discovery.
            In the Reply
brief, Defendant does not seek even further responses, but only argues that
sanctions should be imposed. As such, the Court deems the motions to compel
further responses to be MOOT.
The Court does not take into
consideration what happened with other methods or sets of discovery, other than
those at issue in this motion.
The court may award sanctions under the
Discovery Act in favor of a party who files a motion to compel discovery, even
though no opposition to the motion was filed, or opposition to the motion was
withdrawn, or the requested discovery was provided to the moving party after
the motion was filed.

(Cal. Rules Court, Rule 3.1348(a).)
            The Court
will impose sanctions upon Plaintiff and his counsel of record, because
supplemental responses were not served until after these motions were filed.
            The Court
finds that the appropriate amount of sanctions is $1,360 (4 hours at $325/hr,
plus $60 in filing fees—see Gabroy Declarations) per motion, for
a total of $4,080 against Plaintiff and his attorneys of record, Bradford T.
Child, Esq. of Child & Marton LLP, jointly and severally.
            Sanctions
are to be paid to Defendant’s counsel within 30 days.