 Case Number:  24NNCV02151    Hearing Date:   January 21, 2025    Dept:  X #9 - VICKI CORONA vs PORAT - SERIAL #43951, et al.DEFENDANTS’  DEMURRER AND MOTION TO STRIKE PLAINTIFF’S COMPLAINTPlaintiff owns a motor vehicle, a  Dodge van, which she parks on public streets.  The Vehicle Code mandates that all motor  vehicles parked on public streets be registered with the DMV with appropriate fees  paid.  The Complaint alleges Defendants  Porat and Gonzalez cited Plaintiff’s van for non-registration.  The complaint alleges Plaintiff does not  consent to register with the DMV, and thus the citations are invalid.  The Complaint prays for an identifying sign  to affix to her van to alert law enforcement of her exempt status, $200,000  general damages, and $100 in punitive damages for intentional infliction of  emotional distress.Defendant police officers demur to  Plaintiff’s complaint for (1) Deprivation of Constitutional Unalienable Rights  Under Color of Law and Color of Process, and (2) Conspiracy to Deprive  Plaintiff of Constitutional Rights and Failure to Protect Plaintiff from Such  Conspiracy. Defendants also move to strike the complaint for references to  punitive damages.  The demurrer argues  that both causes of action fail to state facts sufficient to constitute a cause  of action and are uncertain.  Defendants  further contend that Plaintiff’s claims are barred by the doctrine of issue  preclusion and that Plaintiff has failed to comply with the Government Claims  Act.  The motion to strike is based on  the grounds that Plaintiff failed to plead sufficient facts to support a claim  for punitive damages.The Court has reviewed the moving,  objection/opposing, reply, and correspondence papers from the parties.Tentative RulingDefendants’ demurrer to Plaintiff’s complaint is  SUSTAINED without leave to amend both causes of action.  The motion to strike is denied as MOOT.  Plaintiff’s case is ordered dismissed.Defendant is to give notice.Request for Judicial  NoticeDefendants  request judicial notice for five items:Exhibit 1: The Petition for Permanent Injunction  filed by Vicki Corona in Vicki Corona v. City of Los Angeles, et al.,  California Superior Court, County of Los Angeles, North Central District, Case  No. 22BBCP00135 (“the Corona Injunction Case”).Exhibit 2: The Notice of Ruling and Court’s Order  filed on July 22, 2022 in the Corona Injunction Case.Exhibit 3: The Order of Dismissal entered by the  court on July 25, 2022 in the Corona Injunction Case.Exhibit 4: The Remittitur entered on March 26, 2024,  and the Order dismissing the appeal entered on January 4, 2024, by the Court of  Appeal in the Corona Injunction Case.Exhibit 5: The Complaint filed by Plaintiff on  January 3, 2024 in Vicki Corona v. Woods, et al., California Superior Court,  County of Los Angeles, Case No. 24BBCV00016.The  court may take Judicial Notice of the records of a case filed in this Superior  Court.  (Evid. Code § 452 (d).)  Defendants’ Request for Judicial Notice is  granted as to Exhibits 1 to 5.Legal Analysis re:  Defendants’ Demurrer“The function of a demurrer is to test the sufficiency of  the complaint as a matter of law.”  (Holiday  Matinee, Inc. v. Rambus, Inc. (2004) 118 Cal.App.4th 1413, 1420.)  A complaint “is sufficient if it alleges  ultimate rather than evidentiary facts.”  (Doe v. City of Los Angeles (2007) 42  Cal.4th 531, 550 (“Doe”)), but the plaintiff must set forth the essential facts  of his or her case “with reasonable precision and with particularity sufficient  to acquaint [the] defendant with the nature, source and extent” of the  plaintiff’s claim.  (Doheny Park  Terrace Homeowners Assn., Inc. v. Truck Ins. Exchange (2005) 132  Cal.App.4th 1076, 1099.)Legal conclusions are insufficient.  (Id., at pp. 1098–99.)  The Court “assume[s] the truth of the  allegations in the complaint, but do[es] not assume the truth of contentions,  deductions, or conclusions of law.”  (California  Logistics, Inc. v. State of California (2008) 161 Cal.App.4th 242, 247.)  A demurrer lies only for defects appearing on  the face of the complaint or from matters of which the court must or may take  judicial notice.  (Code Civ. Proc., §  430.40; see Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311, 318.)Defendants argue that Plaintiff’s first cause of action  fails to state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action and is  uncertain.  Defendants also argue she has  failed to comply with the Government Claims Act.  Defendants further assert that Plaintiff’s  claims are barred by issue preclusion, as the same issues were litigated and  decided against Plaintiff in prior lawsuits.  (See, e.g., Case No. 22BBCP00135, July  22, 2022 Order.)Plaintiff objects and opposes, arguing that Defendants have  ignored the legal authorities she cited and that her claims are supported by  constitutional and statutory law.  Plaintiff  also disputes the applicability of issue preclusion, asserting that there was  no valid final judgment in the prior cases and that she was denied due process.Issue Preclusion May Not Apply in the Absence of a Final  AdjudicationIssue preclusion prohibits the relitigating of issues argued  and decided in a previous case, even if the second suit raises different causes  of action.  (DKN Holdings LLC v.  Faerber (2015) 61 Cal. 4th 813, 824, quoting Mycogen Corp. v. Monsanto  Co. (2002) 28 Cal.4th 888, 896.)  Under  issue preclusion, the prior judgment conclusively resolves an issue litigated  and determined in the first action.  (DKN,  supra, at p. 824.)  Issue  preclusion may only be asserted against a party to the first lawsuit, or one in  privity with a party.  (Ibid.)  “‘Only the party against whom the doctrine is  invoked must be bound by the prior proceeding.’  [I]ssue preclusion applies: (1) after final  adjudication (2) of an identical issue (3) actually litigated and necessarily  decided in the first suit and (4) asserted against one who was a party in the  first suit or one in privity with that party.”   (Id., at pp. 824-825.)In Case No. 22BBCP00135, Plaintiff Vicki Corona petitioned  to have the City of Los Angeles and individual officers enjoined from ticketing  her van for not being registered while on city streets.  (Case No. 22BBCP00135, Order re: Petition for  Permanent Injunction, 7/22/22, 1:15-19.)   There, the Court determined that an injunction is not proper for several  reasons, including that cities and states may require the registration of  vehicles.  (Id., at 5:15-7:13.)Though not against the City of Los Angeles personally, and like  the basis for her prior petition, in this action (Case No. 22NNCV02151), Plaintiff  Corona has sued two LAPD officers for ticketing her vehicle while it remained  unlicensed on the street.  (Complaint, ¶¶  4, 6-7.)Defendants have met three of the four elements for issue  preclusion.  As to the second element, the  issues in Case No. 22BBCP00135 concern the same issues here: whether the City  of Los Angeles (through its officers) have the authority to ticket Plaintiff  Corona’s unregistered vehicle parked on the street.  Plaintiff Corona in this case asserts the  City did not have such authority.  Regarding  the third and fourth elements, the Court in Case No. 22BBCP00135 determined  that the City did, in fact, have such authority.  Moreover, the issue was actual decided on the  merits by the trial court in Case No. 22BBCP00135.However, the Court does not agree that there has been a  final adjudication on the merits.  Where an  appellate court disposes of an appeal solely on a procedural or technical  ground that does not reach the merits of the underlying controversy, the  judgment does not have preclusive effect in subsequent litigation.  (Parkford Owners for a Better Cmty. v.  Windeshausen (2022) 81 Cal. App. 5th 216, 229.)  Here, Plaintiff’s appeal was dismissed  pursuant to her default under California Rules of Court, Rule 8.100(g).  (Ex. 4.)  This dismissal was based on a procedural  ground and did not reach the merits of the case.  In the absence of the latter, and for  purposes of issue preclusion, this Court cannot conclude that there has been an  adjudication on the merits.Plaintiff Has Not Established Compliance With the  Government CodeSetting aside the argument on issue preclusion Plaintiff’s  claims still fail to comply with the Government Code.  All claims for money or damages against a  public entity must be presented in accordance with the provisions of the  Government Code, unless it is subject to a specific exception.  (Gov. Code, § 905.)  These requirements are part of the “Government  Claims Act” (the “Act”).  (See Gov. Code  § 810, et seq.)  “The (Act) sets forth  the general rule of immunity for public entities, abolishing all common law or  judicially declared forms of liability for public entities, except for such  liability as may be required by the state or federal constitution, or if a  statute ... is found declaring them to be liable.”  (West Contra Costa Unified School District  v. Superior Court of Contra Costa County (2024) 103 Cal.App.5th 1243, 1254,  internal quotations omitted.)  Plaintiff  has not alleged facts showing that she complied with the Government Claims Act  by presenting a claim.  Thus, the  demurrer to the entirety of the complaint is sustained on this basis.Plaintiff’s Complaint Fails to State a Viable Cause of  ActionFinally, Plaintiff’s complaint fails to state a viable cause  of action based on the underlying conduct pled.   Pursuant to Halajian v. D&B Towing (2012) 209 Cal.App.4th 1  and California Vehicle Code sections 4000(a)(1) and 40200, Defendants were  authorized to cite Plaintiff based on the allegations in the complaint.  (See, Halajiah, supra, at p. 13  [the registration requirement furthers legitimate public interests].)  In the absence of any legal authority to the  contrary, Plaintiff has not established that her “opt out” is a viable manner  to preclude citations of her vehicle.  The  demurrer is sustained in its entirety on this basis as well.Leave to AmendWhere Plaintiff cannot establish that leave to amend may  cure the defects identified in her complaint, leave to amend is denied.Defendants’ Motion to Strike Is Denied As MootDefendant moves to strike references to punitive and  exemplary damages in the complaint’s prayer for damages.  As the demurrer is well-taken and sustained  without leave to amend, the motion to strike is denied as moot.ConclusionFor the foregoing reasons, Defendants’ demurrer to  Plaintiff’s complaint is SUSTAINED without leave to amend as to both causes of  action.  The motion to strike is denied  as MOOT.