  Case Number:  20STCV19540    Hearing Date:   May 22, 2024    Dept:  50  
 
Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
Department
50
 



SECURITY NATIONAL INSURANCE
  COMPANY,
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
VALLEY COLLISION INCORPORATED, et al.
                        Defendants.


Case No.:


20STCV19540
  




Hearing Date:


May 22, 2024




Hearing Time:


10:00 a.m.




[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE:  
 
MOTION FOR
  ASSIGNMENT ORDER RE: RIGHTS TO PAYMENT OF MONEY DUE OR TO BECOME DUE



 
Background
On May 21, 2020, Plaintiff Security National
Insurance Company (“Plaintiff”) filed this action against Defendant Valley
Collision Incorporated (“Defendant”). The Complaint alleges causes of action
for (1) breach of contract and (2) breach of contract. 
On January 8, 2021, a Clerk’s default
judgment was entered in this matter for Plaintiff and against Defendant in the
total amount of $142,955.45. 
Plaintiff now moves for an order assigning
to Plaintiff the interest, if any, of Defendant in its rights to payment of
money due or to become due, to the extent necessary to satisfy the judgment
entered in this action. The motion is unopposed. 
Discussion 
Plaintiff states that it seeks an order “assigning
to Plaintiff/Judgment Creditor Security National Insurance Company the
interest, if any, of Defendant/Judgment Debtor Valley Collision Incorporated in
its rights to payment of money due or to
become due, including, without limitation, accounts receivable, general
intangibles, accounts, deposit accounts, royalties, fees, commissions, and
other rights to money, from whatever source, including, without limitation,
rights to the payment of money due from its activities as an automobile repair
dealer and from any business entity or person with which they are affiliated,
including, without limitation, ‘Valley Collision III’ , ‘GEICO’, ‘Farmers
Insurance Group’, ‘Mercury Insurance Group’ , ‘State Farm Insurance’, ‘Progressive
Insurance’, and/or from or through any merchant bank or other processor of
credit card payments under the name ‘Visa’, ‘Mastercard’, ‘American Express’, ‘Discover’,
‘Apple Pay’, ‘Square Inc.’, ‘Chase Paymentech Solutions LLC’ and/or ‘PayPal’,
or otherwise, as well as generated through the use of any license issued by a
governmental agency, including, without limitation, California Bureau of
Automotive Repair, Automobile Repair Dealer License No. 293419, and any other
business operated out of 645 E San Bernardino Rd, Covina, CA 91723, to the
extent necessary to satisfy the judgment entered in this action in full which,
as of May 22, 2024, is $190,661.85…” (Mot. at pp. 1:27-2:13.) 
Plaintiff cites to Code
of Civil Procedure section 708.510, subdivision (a), which
provides that “[e]xcept as otherwise provided
by law, upon application of the judgment creditor on noticed motion, the court
may order the judgment debtor to assign to the judgment creditor or to a
receiver appointed pursuant to Article 7 (commencing with Section
708.610) all or part of a right to payment due or to become due, whether or
not the right is conditioned on future developments, including but not limited
to the following types of payments: (1) Wages due from the federal government that are not subject
to withholding under an earnings withholding order. (2) Rents. (3) Commissions. (4) Royalties. (5) Payments due from a patent or copyright. (6) Insurance policy loan value.” Pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure
section 708.510, subdivision (d), “[a] right to payment may be assigned pursuant to this
article only to the extent necessary to satisfy the money judgment.” 
In addition, pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure
section 708.510, subdivision (c), “[s]ubject to subdivisions (d),
(e), and (f), in determining whether to order an assignment or the amount of an
assignment pursuant to subdivision (a), the court may take into consideration
all relevant factors, including the following: (1) The reasonable requirements of a
judgment debtor who is a natural person and of persons supported in whole or in
part by the judgment debtor. (2) Payments the judgment debtor is required
to make or that are deducted in satisfaction of other judgments and wage
assignments, including earnings assignment orders for support. (3) The
amount remaining due on the money judgment. (4) The amount being or
to be received in satisfaction of the right to payment that may be assigned.”
Pursuant to Code of
Civil Procedure section 708.510, subdivision (b)(1), “[t]he notice of the motion shall be served on the judgment
debtor. Service shall be made personally or by mail.” Here, the proof of
service attached to the instant motion indicates that the motion was served on
Defendant by mail on September 13, 2023. 
As set forth above, on January 8, 2021, a
Clerk’s default judgment was entered in this matter for Plaintiff and against
Defendant in the total amount of $142,955.45. Plaintiff’s counsel states
that “[n]o effort has been made to satisfy the Judgment.” (Aires Decl., ¶ 4.) 
In support of the motion, Plaintiff submits the Declaration of R.
Brent Walton, who states that he provides “litigation support and analysis
services” to Plaintiff’s counsel. (Walton Decl., ¶ 2.) Mr. Walton states, inter
alia, that he “conducted a search of the internet through www.google.com
for ‘Valley Collision’” and asserts that his “investigation efforts reveal that
rights to payment of money due or to become due, including, without limitation,
accounts receivable, general intangibles, accounts, deposit accounts,
royalties, fees, commissions, and other rights to money, from whatever source,
including, without limitation, rights to the payment of money due from its
activities as an automobile repair dealer and from any business entity or
person with which they are affiliated, including, without limitation, ‘Valley
Collision III’ , ‘GEICO’, ‘Farmers Insurance Group’, ‘Mercury Insurance Group’
, ‘State Farm Insurance’ , ‘Progressive Insurance’, and/or from or through any
merchant bank or other processor of credit card payments under the name ‘Visa’,
‘Mastercard’ , ‘American Express’, ‘Discover’, ‘Apple Pay’, ‘Square Inc.’, ‘Chase
Paymentech Solutions LLC’ and/or ‘PayPal’, or otherwise, as well as generated
through the use of any license issued by a governmental agency, including,
without limitation, California Bureau of Automotive Repair, Automobile Repair
Dealer License No. 293419, and any other business operated out of 645 E San
Bernardino Rd, Covina, CA 91723, exist in favor of Defendant/Judgment Debtor
Valley Collision Incorporated.” (Walton Decl., ¶ 5.) 
As set forth above, Code of Civil Procedure
section 708.510, subdivision (a) provides in part that “upon application of
the judgment creditor on noticed motion, the court may order the judgment
debtor to assign to the judgment creditor…all or part of a right to payment due
or to become due, whether or not the right is conditioned on future
developments…” (Emphasis added.) “All or part of a right to payment due, or to become due, may be ordered assigned whether or not such right is
conditioned upon future developments. [CCP §
708.510(a)].” (Ahart, Cal. Practice Guide: Enforcing
Judgments and Debts (The Rutter Group 2023) ¶ 6:1423 [emphasis in original].) 
Here,
the Court finds that Plaintiff has provided adequate evidence of purported
payments due or to become due to Defendant. 
Conclusion 
Based on the foregoing, Plaintiff’s motion is denied
without prejudice. 
Plaintiff is ordered to give notice
of this Order.  
 
 
 
DATED:  May 22, 2024                                 ________________________________
Hon. Teresa A.
Beaudet
Judge, Los
Angeles Superior Court