Here is a summary of the Judge's tentative ruling in YAML format:

```
Case Number: 24STCV19299
Plaintiff's Name: Shahbaz Farnad, Sharon Dann Farnad
Defendant's Name: Foxburg Productions, LLC, Gilbert Hernandez, Cinema Security, Inc.
People-Names: Shahbaz Farnad, Sharon Dann Farnad, Gilbert Hernandez, Richard Moya
Company-Names: Foxburg Productions, LLC, Cinema Security, Inc.
Places: Residence of Shahbaz Farnad and Sharon Dann Farnad
Dates: August 2, 2024, September 30, 2024, October 14, 2024, October 18, 2024, October 25, 2024
Events: Commercial filming, burglary, hiring of independent contractor
Money: $700,000
Intentions: Plaintiff's intention to recover damages for breach of contract, negligence, and intentional tort
Facts: Foxburg Productions, LLC hired Cinema Security, Inc. to provide security for the filming of a commercial at the residence of Shahbaz Farnad and Sharon Dann Farnad. Richard Moya, an employee of Cinema Security, Inc., was a convicted felon and was caught on camera investigating restricted areas of the home. Three individuals broke into the residence and stole $700,000 worth of property.
Disputes: Foxburg Productions, LLC filed a demurrer and motion to strike the complaint, arguing that it is not liable for the actions of its independent contractor, Cinema Security, Inc.
Acts: Foxburg Productions, LLC hired Cinema Security, Inc. to provide security for the filming of a commercial at the residence of Shahbaz Farnad and Sharon Dann Farnad.
Agreements: Foxburg Productions, LLC and Shahbaz Farnad and Sharon Dann Farnad entered into an agreement in which Foxburg Productions, LLC agreed to leave the premises in the condition it was in before the filming and to protect the premises and the property within.
Laws: California Civil Code, Code of Civil Procedure
Case Citations: Hahn v. Mirda, Taylor v. City of Los Angeles Dept. of Water and Power, SKF Farms v. Superior Court, Johnson v. Ralphs Grocery Co., Noble v. Sears, Roebuck & Co., Stephen Slesinger, Inc. v. Walt Disney Co., Privette v. Superior Court, J'Aire Corp. v. Gregory, Ladd v. County of San Mateo, Artiglio v. Corning Inc., Gravillis v. Coldwell Banker Residential Brokerage Co., Cooper v. Superior Court, Windeler v. Scheers Jewelers, Ross v. Forest Lawn Memorial Park, Wynn v. Monterey Club
Statutes: Code of Civil Procedure, California Civil Code
Roles: Foxburg Productions, LLC is the defendant, Shahbaz Farnad and Sharon Dann Farnad are the plaintiffs, and Richard Moya is an employee of Cinema Security, Inc.
Significant Statements: The Judge denied Foxburg Productions, LLC's demurrer and motion to strike, finding that Foxburg Productions, LLC is liable for the breach of contract and negligence in hiring an incompetent security agency without proper vetting, and that emotional distress damages are recoverable.
```

Here is a summary of the Judge's tentative ruling in English text:

The Judge has denied Foxburg Productions, LLC's demurrer and motion to strike the complaint filed by Shahbaz Farnad and Sharon Dann Farnad. The Judge found that Foxburg Productions, LLC is liable for the breach of contract and negligence in hiring an incompetent security agency without proper vetting. The Judge also found that emotional distress damages are recoverable, citing several California cases that have allowed recovery for emotional distress damages in similar circumstances.

The Judge's ruling is based on the allegations in the complaint, which state that Foxburg Productions, LLC hired Cinema Security, Inc. to provide security for the filming of a commercial at the residence of Shahbaz Farnad and Sharon Dann Farnad. Richard Moya, an employee of Cinema Security, Inc., was a convicted felon and was caught on camera investigating restricted areas of the home. Three individuals broke into the residence and stole $700,000 worth of property.

The Judge also found that Foxburg Productions, LLC's agreement to protect the premises and the property within was a contractual obligation that was breached when it hired an incompetent security agency without proper vetting. The Judge concluded that Foxburg Productions, LLC is liable for the breach of contract and negligence, and that emotional distress damages are recoverable.