 Case Number:  24STCV17170    Hearing Date:   October 25, 2024    Dept:  32 


 
JANE DOE,
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
 
LOCKTON COMPANIES LLC – PACIFIC SERIES, et
  al.,
                        
                       Defendants. 


 
  Case No.:  24STCV17170
  Hearing Date:  October 25, 2024
 
     [TENTATIVE]
  order RE:
plaintiff’s motion to quash subpoena 




 


 



BACKGROUND
            On July 10, 2024, Plaintiff Jane Doe
filed this action against Defendants Lockton Companies LLC – Pacific Series,
Timothy Noonan, and Arthur Carlin. The complaint asserts (1) discrimination,
(2) harassment, (3) retaliation, (4) failure to prevent, and (5) wrongful
termination.
            On September 11, 2024, Defendant
Lockton served a subpoena to nonparty Alliant Insurance Services, Inc.,
Plaintiff’s current employer, seeking all employment documents related to
Plaintiff. (Zilifyan Decl., Ex. 1.)  
            On September 25, 2024, Plaintiff
filed the instant motion to quash the subpoena. Defendant filed its opposition
on October 14, 2024. Plaintiff filed her reply on October 18, 2024. 
LEGAL STANDARD
“If a subpoena requires the attendance of
a witness or the production of books, documents, electronically stored
information, or other things …, the court, upon motion reasonably made by [a
party] . . . may make an order quashing the subpoena entirely, modifying it, or
directing compliance with it upon those terms or conditions as the court shall
declare, including protective orders.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 1987.1, subd. (a),
(b).) Good cause must be shown to compel a nonparty to produce documents. (See Calcor
Space Facility, Inc. v. Superior Court (1997) 53 Cal.App.4th 216, 224.)   
DISCUSSION
I.
Good Cause
            Here, Plaintiff alleges that she
suffered “lost past and future income and employment benefits, damage to her
career, and lost wages, overtime, unpaid expenses, and penalties, as well as
interest on unpaid wages at the legal rate from and after each payday on which
those wages should have been paid.” (Compl. ¶ 185.) Plaintiff further alleges
that Defendant’s stated reason for terminating her was her “active
conversations with Alliant.” (Id., ¶ 175.) Defendant allegedly informed
Plaintiff that it knew Plaintiff was “talking to competitors about potential
job opportunities.” (Id., ¶ 169.) Plaintiff alleges that she was
actually terminated as retaliation for reporting sexual harassment and voicing
other concerns and that Defendant is “defaming her by spreading misinformation
regarding her former employment and termination.” (Id., ¶¶ 179-180.)
            These allegations provide good cause
for the discovery of Plaintiff’s personnel records at Alliant. Defendant is
entitled to test the veracity of Plaintiff’s claim that she lost wages and
career prospects as a result of Defendant’s conduct, and to ascertain the
extent of such damages. Defendant is also entitled to obtain evidence showing
that it truthfully terminated Plaintiff for seeking employment with a
competitor and not for prohibited retaliatory reasons. Defendant is entitled to
seek evidence showing that its statements about Plaintiff’s employment and
termination were accurate and not defamatory. Plaintiff’s personnel records at
Alliant, including communications with Alliant relating to Defendant, are
directly relevant to each of these topics. 
            Additionally, Plaintiff alleges “psychological
and emotional distress, humiliation, and mental and physical pain and anguish”
as a result of Defendant’s conduct. (Compl. ¶ 186.) By alleging that Defendants
caused her emotional distress, Plaintiff has placed potential alternative
causes at issue. (See Vinson v. Sup. Ct. (1987) 43 Cal.3d 833, 840.)
Defendant is entitled to ascertain potential alternative causes of the alleged
emotional distress, such as harassment, discrimination, or other conflicts
occurring at Plaintiff’s subsequent employment. 
            In sum, Defendant has established
good cause for the requested documents. 
II.
Privacy
“The party asserting a privacy right must
establish a legally protected privacy interest, an objectively reasonable
expectation of privacy in the given circumstances, and a threatened intrusion
that is serious.” (Williams v. Sup. Ct. (2017) 3 Cal.5th 531, 552.) If
the court finds a privacy interest, the court must balance the privacy concerns
against the need for the information. (Id. at p. 552.) Discovery of
private information is governed by the more stringent standard of direct
relevance in order to prevent a fishing expedition of “tangentially pertinent
sensitive information.” (Boler v. Sup. Ct. (1987) 201 Cal.App.3d 467,
472.) “The burden is on the party seeking the constitutionally protected
information to establish direct relevance.” (Davis v. Superior Court
(1992) 7 Cal.App.4th 1008, 1017.) 
“[P]ersonnel records and employment
history are within the scope of the protection provided by the state and
federal Constitutions.” (San Diego Trolley, Inc. v. Superior Court
(2001) 87 Cal.App.4th 1083, 1097.) However, as discussed above, the records
sought are directly relevant to the issues raised in the complaint. Thus,
Defendant’s need for the information outweighs Plaintiff’s interest in privacy.
The privacy concerns are also assuaged by a protective order. (See Hill v.
National Collegiate Athletic Assn. (1994) 7 Cal.4th 1, 38.) 
There is no privacy concern over Alliant’s
clients because Defendant does not seek information on Alliant’s clients.
Request No. 10 seeks communications with Plaintiff related to Defendant
or its clients, not Alliant’s. (Zilifyan Decl., Ex. 1.)    
 
III.
Character Evidence
            Plaintiff concludes without
explanation that the records sought by the subpoena constitute improper
character evidence. (See Mtn. 8:22-9:1.) Moreover, character evidence is
inadmissible (Evid. Code, § 1101), but admissibility is not the test for
discoverability (see Code Civ. Proc., § 2017.010). 
IV.
Reasonable Particularity
            A records subpoena “shall designate
the business records to be produced either by specifically describing each
individual item or by reasonably particularizing each category of item.” (Code
Civ. Proc., § 2020.410(a).) A “blanket demand . . . hardly constitutes ‘reasonable’
particularity.” (Calcor, supra, 53 Cal.App.4th at p. 222.) A party may
not simply ask a party to “[p]roduce everything in your possession which in any
way relates to” the complaint. (Ibid.) 
            The document demands in the Alliant
subpoena are reasonably particularized and are not similar to the blanket
demands in Calcor. The requests are reasonably tailored to the purposes
discussed above. 
CONCLUSION
            Plaintiff’s motion to quash subpoena
is DENIED. Production shall be subject to a protective order. 
            