 Case Number:  24STCV12643    Hearing Date:   October 25, 2024    Dept:  32 


 
3500 SEPULVEDA LLC, et
  al.,
                        Plaintiffs,
            v.
 
6220 SPRING ASSOCIATES,
  LLC, 
                        Defendant.
  


 
  Case No.:  24STCV12643
  Hearing Date:  October 25, 2024
 
     [TENTATIVE]
  order RE:
defendant’s motion to compel further
  responses to interrogatories (CRS# 4589) 




 


 



BACKGROUND
            On May 20, 2024, Plaintiffs 3500
Sepulveda LLC and 13th & Crest Associates LLC filed this action for breach
of contract against Defendant 6220 Spring Associates, LLC.
The complaint alleges that in 2005,
Plaintiffs and Defendant (collectively, the parties) acquired a commercial
property in Manhattan Beach, California (Hacienda Property) as tenants in
common. (Compl. ¶ 7.) The parties allegedly entered into an agreement (TIC
Agreement) providing for their respective interests in the Hacienda Property,
requiring payment of costs and expenses in proportion to those interests, and
allowing the prevailing party in any litigation arising out of the TIC
Agreement to recover its costs and attorney’s fees. (Id., ¶ 8.) 
The parties were allegedly involved in a
dispute with the owner of a neighboring property (RREEF), who had planned an
expansion project which the parties disapproved of. (Compl. ¶ 9.) This dispute
resolved in a settlement agreement between the parties and RREEF. (Ibid.)
Upon realizing that the RREEF expansion project would still encroach on the
Hacienda Property, the parties decided to sue RREEF for breach of the
settlement agreement. (Id., ¶ 12.) However, Defendant’s principal,
Richard Rizika (Rizika), requested that Defendant not be named as a plaintiff
in the lawsuit against RREEF. (Id., ¶ 12.) Accordingly, the parties
allegedly entered into an oral contract whereby Plaintiffs would file suit
against RREEF for the benefit of all the parties, Defendant would provide
assistance to the litigation, and Defendant would bear its proportionate share
of costs and liabilities related to the lawsuit. (Ibid.) 
RREEF ultimately prevailed in the
litigation and was awarded $2,737,174 in attorney’s fees and costs. (Compl. ¶
14.) Plaintiffs paid the award in full, but Defendant has refused to reimburse
Plaintiffs for its 28.3% pro rata share, or $775,578.25. (Id., ¶¶
15-16.) This action followed. The complaint asserts two causes of action for
breach of contract: (1) for the written TIC Agreement; and (2) for the oral
agreement regarding litigation responsibilities. 
On September 25, 2024, Defendant filed the
instant motion to compel Plaintiffs’ further responses to form and special
interrogatories. Plaintiffs filed their opposition on October 14, 2024.
Defendant filed its reply on October 18, 2024. 
LEGAL STANDARD
Upon receiving responses to its discovery
requests, the propounding party may move for an order compelling further
responses if the responses are incomplete or evasive, or objections are without
merit or too general. (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 2030.300(a), 2031.310(a),
2033.290(a).) The party seeking production of documents
bears the initial burden of showing good cause through a fact-specific showing
of relevance. (Kirkland v. Superior Court (2002) 95 Cal.App.4th 92, 98.)
Once this showing is made, the burden shifts to the responding party to justify
any objections. (Ibid.) 
MEET AND CONFER
            A motion to compel further must be
accompanied by a meet and confer declaration demonstrating an attempt to
resolve the matter informally. (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 2030.300(b)(1),
2031.310(b), 2033.290(b).) The Court finds that Defendant has satisfied the meet
and confer requirement. (See French Decl. ¶¶ 13-17, Ex. 10-13.) 
DISCUSSION
I.
Form Interrogatories 
            a. The Term “Incident”
            A substantial number of the form
interrogatories at issue concern Plaintiffs’ objection to the term “incident,”
defined as “the circumstances and events surrounding the alleged incident,
injury, or other occurrence or breach of contract giving rise to this action or
proceeding.” Plaintiffs argue that because the lawsuit arises from numerous
incidents, it is vague which particular incident is being referenced by the
FROGs. 
            This objection is not well-taken.
While the word “incident” is written in singular, its definition clearly
accommodates multiple occurrences: “the circumstances and events
surrounding the alleged . . . breach of contract.” Plaintiffs are obviously
aware of the circumstances and events surrounding their own claims. The FROGs
are sufficiently clear to warrant a response. (See Deyo v. Kilbourne
(1978) 84 Cal.App.3d 771, 783.) Any minor ambiguity over the term “incident”
does not negate Plaintiffs’ obligation to provide information on the breaches
alleged in their own complaint. Plaintiffs chose to file a complaint based on
numerous events and breaches; they should be prepared to provide information on
each. 
The motion is GRANTED as to FROG Nos. 4.1,
4.2, 9.1, 9.2, 12.1-12.3, and 12.6. 
b. FROG No. 50.6
FROG No. 50.6 asks: “Is any agreement
alleged in the pleadings ambiguous? If so, identify each ambiguous agreement
and state why it is ambiguous.” Plaintiffs responded that “all agreements are
ambiguous to some extent. Analyzing each individual representation associated
with the oral contract at issue for ambiguity would be unduly burdensome and
would not lead to the discovery of relevant information. If Defendant would
point to any representation of relevance, Plaintiff would supplement this
answer with an analysis of the same.” 
This is a standard form interrogatory
drafted by the Judicial Council for breach of contract actions. Whether the
contracts at issue are ambiguous is relevant to the claims. Plaintiffs argue
that the contracts are complex with numerous terms that may or may not be
ambiguous, and it would be unduly burdensome to parse through each term to
answer the FROG. Again, Plaintiffs chose to file a lawsuit based on the alleged
contracts, and they should be prepared to provide information on each such
contract.  
The motion is GRANTED as to FROG No.
50.6.   
II.
Special Interrogatories
            a. SROG No. 1
            SROG Nos. 1 asks Plaintiffs to
“[s]tate all facts regarding each and every written agreement” that obligates
Defendant to pay the judgment in the RREEF litigation. Plaintiffs objected that
“all facts” was broad and necessarily encompassed information not relevant to
the litigation. Thus, Plaintiffs limited their response to facts material to
the litigation and proceeded to recite a narrative of facts surrounding the
events alleged in the complaint. 
            Plaintiffs have adequately answered
this SROG with responsive information, given the SROG broadly asks for all
facts on each written contract. Defendant may propound additional discovery if
it seeks more specific information. 
            The motion is DENIED as to SROG No.
1.
            b. SROG No. 2
            SROG No. 2 asks Plaintiffs to
identify every document evidencing the agreement identified in SROG No. 1. To
the extent that “evidence” means “demonstrate the existence of,” Plaintiffs
objected to the breadth of the SROG as seeking every document that exists as a
result of the alleged TIC Agreement, including all communications between the
parties concerning their relationship as tenants in common. In response,
Defendant argues that the SROG is “simply asking Plaintiffs to identify the
document(s) constituting the alleged written agreement.” The SROG is answerable
with this limitation.  
            The motion is GRANTED as to SROG No.
2, limited to document(s) constituting the alleged written agreement.
            c. SROG No. 4
            SROG No. 4 asks Plaintiffs to
identify all documents evidencing any modifications to the parties’ written
agreement, as identified in SROG No. 3. In response to SROG No. 3, Plaintiffs
had identified a First Amendment to the TIC Agreement regarding new financing
from Symetra Life Insurance Company, which Plaintiffs contend is not relevant
to the issues in the action. 
            In its separate statement, Defendant
argues that the SROG “is simply asking Plaintiffs to identify the document(s)
modifying the parties’ agreement.” The SROG is answerable with this limitation.
Modifications to the TIC Agreement are relevant because Plaintiffs sue for
breach of the terms of the TIC Agreement. Plaintiffs cannot unilaterally
declare a certain modification to be irrelevant and then refuse to provide
information about it. Defendant is entitled to ascertain whether any
modification affected its obligations under the purported agreement.   
            The motion is GRANTED as to SROG No.
4, limited to document(s) modifying the parties’ agreement.
            d. SROG No. 6
            SROG No. 6 asks Plaintiffs to
identify all documents evidencing an “alteration” of the parties’ written
agreement. This seeks the same information as SROG No. 4 and is therefore
duplicative. Defendant does not explain the distinction between “modification”
and “alteration.”
            The motion is DENIED as to SROG No.
6. 
            
 
e. SROG No. 9
            SROG No. 9 seeks “all facts
regarding each and every oral agreement” that allegedly obligates Defendant to
pay the judgment in the RREEF litigation. Plaintiffs have adequately answered
this SROG with responsive information, given the SROG broadly asks for all
facts on each oral contract. Defendant may propound additional discovery if it
seeks more specific information. 
            The motion is DENIED as to SROG No.
9. 
            f. SROG No. 12
            SROG No. 12 asks for all facts
related to the contention that Defendant is obligated to pay the RREEF
judgment. Plaintiffs have adequately answered this SROG with responsive
information, given the SROG broadly asks for all facts. Defendant may propound
additional discovery if it seeks more specific information. 
            The motion is DENIED as to SROG No.
12. 
            g. SROG No. 13
            SROG No. 13 asks Plaintiffs to
identify all documents supporting their contention that Defendant is obligated
to pay the RREEF judgment. Plaintiffs responded with a list of the types of
documents responsive to the request. Plaintiffs contend that identifying every
single specific document would be unduly burdensome, as there may be thousands
of documents. Plaintiffs have provided a responsive answer to this SROG.
Defendant may propound additional discovery if it seeks further information. 
            The motion is DENIED as to SROG No.
13.  
CONCLUSION
            Defendant’s motion to compel further
responses to Form Interrogatories is GRANTED in part as set forth above.
Plaintiffs shall provide further responses within 20 days of this order. Sanctions
are denied. 