 Case Number:  23TRCV01671    Hearing Date:   November 1, 2023    Dept:  8  TENTATIVE RULINGHEARING DATE:                 November 1, 2023¿ 
¿ 
CASE NUMBER:                  23TRCV01671
¿¿ 
CASE NAME:                        Lambe
B. Papoulias v. Volkswagen Group of America, Inc., et al. 
¿¿ 
MOVING PARTY:                Plaintiff, Lambe B. Papoulias
 
RESPONDING PARTY:       Defendant, Volkswagen Group of America, Inc. and
County-Wide Rambler, Inc. dba Volkswagen of Garden Grove
 
MOTION:¿                              (1) Motion to Compel Further
Responses, Without Objections, to Requests for Production, Set One
                                                
 
Tentative Rulings:                  (1) Motion to Compel Further
Responses, Without Objections, to Requests for Production, Set One is CONTINUED
to a date to be discussed, after Court-ordered meet-and confer process can
occur.  The Court provides some
parameters to guide the meet and confer process.
                                                 
 
I. BACKGROUND¿ 
¿ 
A. Factual¿ 
¿¿ 
            On May 26, 2023, Plaintiff, Lambe B.
Papoulias (“Plaintiff”) filed a Complaint against Defendants, Volkswagen Group
of America, Inc. and County-Wide Rambler, Inc. dba Volkswagen of Garden Grove,
and DOES 1 through 10. The Complaint alleges causes of action for: (1)
Violation of Song-Beverly Act – Breach of Express Warranty; (2) Violation of
Song-Beverly Act – Breach of Implied Warranty; (3) Violation of Song-Beverly
Act § 1793.2; and (4) Negligent Repair.
 
            On July 13, 2023, Plaintiff
propounded Request for Production of Documents, Set One on Defendant seeking
documents relating to: (1) Plaintiff’s own vehicle (Request Nos. 1-15); (2)
Defendant’s policies and procedures for handling Song-Beverly Consumer Warranty
Act Cases (Request Nos. 16-23); (3) Defendant’s warranty policy and the
procedure used for handling warranty issues (Request Nos. 24-30); and (4)
information regarding similar customer complaints in vehicles of the same year,
make, and model as the Subject Vehicle (Request Nos. 31-32). Plaintiff notes
that on August 15, 2023, Defendant served a Response to Plaintiff’s written
discovery requested asserting boilerplate objections that are not
Code-Compliant. However, Plaintiff argues Defendant failed to produce many of
the responsive documents requested. 
 
            Plaintiff suggests that Defendant
has not produced the entirety of the emails, memorandum, data, or
investigations that could help Plaintiff establish Defendant’s knowledge of the
same or similar defects in other vehicles of the same year, make, and model. As
such, Plaintiff now files this Motion to Compel Further Responses to
Plaintiff’s Requests for Production of Documents, Set One. 
 
B. Procedural  
 
On
September 15, 2023, Plaintiff brought its Motions to Compel Further Responses
to Plaintiff’s Request for Production of Documents, Set One. On October 19,
2023, Defendants filed an opposition. Both sides submitted Separate Statements
bearing on the disputed discovery requests and responses.  
 
¿II. ANALYSIS ¿ 
¿ 
A.   
Legal Standard 
“Unless otherwise limited by order
of the court in accordance with this title, any party may obtain discovery
regarding any matter, not privileged, that is relevant to the subject matter
involved in the pending action or to the determination of any motion made in
that action, if the matter either is itself admissible in evidence or appears
reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence.” (Code
of Civ. Proc. § 2017.010.) For discovery purposes, information is regarded as
relevant “if it might reasonably assist a party in evaluating the case,
preparing for trial, or facilitating settlement thereof.” (City of Los
Angeles v. Superior Court (2017) 9 Cal.App.5th 272, 288.)  
A motion to compel further
responses to a demand for inspection or production of documents (“RFP”) may be
brought based on: (1) incomplete statements of compliance; (2) inadequate,
evasive, or incomplete claims of inability to comply; or (3) unmerited or
overly generalized objections.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.310(c).) A
motion to compel further production must set forth specific facts showing good
cause justifying the discovery sought by the inspection demand. (See Code Civ.
Proc., § 2031.310(b)(1).) In Digital Music News LLC v Superior Court
(2014) 226 Cal.App.4th 216 at 224, the Court defined “good cause” as a showing
that there “a disputed fact that is of consequence in the action and the
discovery sought will tend in reason to prove or disprove that fact or lead to
other evidence that will tend to prove or disprove the fact.” If the
moving party has shown good cause for the requests for production, the burden
is on the objecting party to justify the objections. (Kirkland v. Sup.Ct
(2002) 95 Cal. App.4th 92, 98.) 
B.    
Discussion
 
Meet and Confer Requirement
 
            Here,
Plaintiff contends that on August 28, 2023, counsel sent Defendant’s counsel a
letter attempting to meet and confer in good faith regarding Defendant’s
responses to Plaintiff’s request. On September 5, 2023, Plaintiff notes Defense
counsel responded. However, Plaintiff contends that on September 6, 2023, upon
reviewing and analyzing Defendant’s response to Plaintiff’s meet and confer
letter, Plaintiff served a further meet and confer letter to address
Defendant’s assertions. Defendant characterizes this second meet and confer
letter as “gneric,” i.e., not tailored to the specific discovery requests at
issue in this case.  Defendant notes that
on September 13, its counsel responded to the “generic” meet and confer letter
offering 3 dates that Defendant’s counsel was available to discuss the issues
raised in Plaintiff’s letter. However, Defendant states that Plaintiff’s
counsel, without ever substantively meeting and conferring, filed the instant
motion on September 15, 2023. Neither party addresses any effort to stipulate
to extend the 45-day period within which to bring a motion to compel further
respopnses, which some opposing counsel in Lemon Law litigation seem to be able
to do without court intervention but others seem constitutionally opposed to
doing.  
 
            Here, the
Court does not find that Plaintiff sufficiently met and conferred prior to the
filing of this motion. Further, the Court notes that Plaintiff is seeking this
Court to decide the relevance and order responses to thirty-two (32) discovery
requests, and Defennt has submitted a declaration form VW’s Product Analysis
manager indicating the burden of reviewing individual customer files for tens
of thousands of Atlas vehicles distributed in the United States.  This should indicate to Plaintiff that
further meeting and conferring is required prior to bringing this motion. The
Court will order genuine meeting and conferring with the motion to compel
already on file and pending but undecided. 

 
            Further,
Defendant’s opposition suggests that RFP Nos. 1-15 should be moot as they have
already produced scores of responsive documents; RFP Nos. 16-30 should be
mooted as Defendant has already produced confidential documents regarding its
policies and procedures and training materials pertaining to the handling of
pre-litigation repurchase requests. The Court will not reach the merits of this
motion on the November 1, 2023 hearing date as the procedural requirement that
the parties sufficiently meet and confer before the filing of this motion is
not met. Counsel should be prepared to discuss at the hearing how much time
will be needed for this more detailed and focused meet and confer process, and
when the continued hearing would be set.
 
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 For
purposes of enabling counsel to prepare for their meet and confer process being
ordered by the Court, the Court sets forth below some basic parameters for what
it typically orders with respect to certain of the discovery requests embraced
by this motion and by VW’s declaration indicating the nature of the burden
engendered by the disputed discovery here. 
 The Court typically orders and
limits production of documents including ESI in a Song-Beverly single-vehicle
case as follows:      
1.      Purchase
and/or lease contract concerning the subject vehicle must be produced.
2.      Repair
orders and invoices concerning the subject vehicle must be produced, including
the “accounting” copies showing the hours and dates of activity by dealer
personnel.
3.      Communications
between the plaintiff and the warrantor/manufacturer and/or its servicing
dealers, and communications between Plaintiff and the manufacturer’s factory
representative and/or call center concerning the subject vehicle.
4.      Warranty
claims submitted to and/or approved by Defendant concerning the subject
vehicle.
5.      The
applicable Warranty Policy and Procedure Manual published by defendant and
provided to its authorized repair facilities, within the State of California,
for the year the lawsuit was filed.  If a
separate written policy, procedure, or manual exists regarding repurchases or
buy backs appliable to vehicles sold or leased in California, that would also
be required to be produced for the year the lawsuit was filed and/or the year
Plaintiff contends the vehicle became qualified for repurchase (such as upon satisfaction
of the Presentation Element of a Song-Beverly cause of action under Section
1793.2(d)(2) or 1793.22).  Such documents
would be produced subject to a protective order
6.      Any
internal analysis and/or investigation regarding the primary or other recurring
alleged defects claimed by plaintiff in her/his vehicle, applicable to the same
year, make and model of the subject vehicle. 
The Court tends to focus on the claimed symptom experienced by the
plaintiff as described in the dealers’ repair records, rather than a broad and
vague characterization of the claimed defect as described by counsel in the
litigation.  For example, if the customer
experienced a black Infotainment screen when shifting in reverse, or a harsh
engagement or clunk of the transmission when accelerating from 2nd
to 3rd gear, those symptoms rather than any other generalized nature
of malfunction of the Infotainment system or transmission would be the
narrowing of scope of such internal analysis or investigation to be
produced.  
7.      Other
customers’ complaints similar to the alleged defects claimed by plaintiff,
limited to vehicles purchased in California for the same year, make and model
of the subject Model year 2022 Atlas vehicle. 
The other customer complaints again would be limited in scope to the
description of the symptom as shown on the dealer repair records.  The Court typically discusses with counsel
the type of documents that may be required and the format for a production of
documents such as in a sortable Excel spreadsheet that lists a compilation or
summary of much more voluminous documents. 
The spreadsheet typically would contain the repair date, the VIN last 6
of the other customers’ vehicle, the servicing dealer by name, location and/or
dealer code, a description of the customer’s complaint as listed in the
warranty claim submission, the determined cause if any of that complaint or
whether no problem or cause was found, and the correction, repair, or replacement
performed if any.
a.       Here,
the declaration of VW’s Product Analysis manager Chris Lewis indicates the
number and nature of burden that a full and complete response to Plaintiff’s
discovery requests would entail. 
However, during the Court-ordered meet and confer process, more detail
and narrowing of the burden will be discussed.
b.      For
example, the Court intends to narrow the scope of permissible discovery of
other MY 2022 Atlas vehicles’ customer complaints as noted above.  Thus, the volume of customer repair files to
be reviewed will be only the 4,162 MY 2022 Atlases sold or leased in
California, a much smaller than the 53,921 national total of all MY 2022 Atlas
vehicles distributed in the United States. 
Further, the parties shall discuss search terms for key words to be used
in a program for VW to run on its digitally stored records in VW’s customer
care center records and in its warranty reimbursement system records.  If VW does not have its records stored in a database
or other digitally searchable system, that will be a point to advise the Court
after the conclusion of the meet and confer process.  The Court will NOT order VW to identify the
other customers by name, address, telephone number or any other PII.  Any such compilation will be subject to a
Discovery Protective Order in this case, and the custodian or other person who
generates the compilation may need to be identified if the parties cannot
stipulate to the use and admissibility of the chart.
c.       The
Court will not likely order production of ESI as to other California customers’
complaints of repair issues that occurred on a single occasion in the plaintiff’s
repair history.  Merely because the
Plaintiff experienced a repair issue does not make discovery of every other
California customer’s records for that repair issue reasonable when considering
the needs of the litigation, the importance of that issue to the issued
disputed in this litigation, the amount in controversy, and the costs of
provided the broader scope of discovery sought by Plaintiff.  
8.      Technical
Service Bulletins and/or Recall Notices for vehicles purchased in California
for the same year, make and model of the subject vehicle, beginning with those mentioned
in the repair history of the subject vehicle
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 