 Case Number:  YC033114    Hearing Date:   November 1, 2023    Dept:  8 Tentative Ruling 
¿ 
HEARING DATE:                 November 1, 2023¿ 
¿ 
CASE NUMBER:                  YC033114
¿ 
CASE NAME:                        Palos
Verdes Homes Association v. David Goldhammer
¿ 
MOVING PARTY:                Plaintiffs-in-Intervention, William Regan and Desiree Myers
 
RESPONDING PARTY:       Defendant,
David Avedon (formerly David Goldhammer)
¿ 
TRIAL DATE:                        Not
Set.  
 
DISPOSED DATE:                September
30, 1999
¿ 
MOTION:¿                              (1) Motion for Contempt Against
Defendant, Davide Avedon 
(2) Issuance of a Permanent
Injunction
 
Tentative Rulings:                  (1) Motion for Contempt Against
Defendant, Davide Avedon is GRANTED in part, as the Court will set a hearing on
an OSC re contempt.  The Court requires
additional evidence before it can order Mr. Avedon to be held in contempt.  Hearing setting to be discussed 
(2) Issuance of a Permanent
Injunction is DENIED without prejudice to being renewed in the future depending
on Mr. Avedon’s actions or inactions
 
As an initial matter, the Court
notes that this litigation has been pending for a quarter of a century.  Each side has historical evidence supporting
its position, and several different judges have taken great pains to attempt to
address not only alleged past violations but also to facilitate ongoing or
future management of the view obstruction and vegetation planting claims of the
disputing parties.  The Court
acknowledges the parties’ frustration with the litigation process, but as the
current judge has only recently been assigned this matter, his approach will of
necessity require an education process.  
 
 
I. BACKGROUND¿ 
¿ 
A.   
Factual¿ 
 
This
action was filed on August 31, 1998 and involves a dispute between two property
owners living in Palos Verdes Estates. Plaintiffs in intervention contend that
Defendant, Avedon’s obstruction of their view has already been repeatedly
established by prior Court rulings. Plaintiffs in intervention assert that this
case is in dire need of case management due to defendant Avedon’s repeated and
continued non-compliance with court orders to keep his vegetation trimmed. Plaintiffs
in Intervention note that Court orders and arbitration awards issued over the
past two decades by Judge Stuart Rice, Andrew Kauffman, Gregory O’Brien, Deidre
Hill and others have been routinely violated. Plaintiffs in Intervention note
that their failure to enforce these orders is hampered by Defendant Avedon’s in
pro per status and failure to communicate. 
 
Based
on all of this, Plaintiffs in Intervention contend that they now seek an order
setting a hearing on an Order to Show Cause re Avedon’s contempt of these past
orders. Further, in addition to seeking enforcement of past enforcement
regarding existing foliage, Plaintiffs in Intervention claim the parties are in
need of a permanent injunction against Avedon’s planting new vegetation
following the Court of Appeal’s affirmance of Judge Hill’s preliminary
injunction finding such planned vegetation would block the view of Plaintiffs
in Intervention.
 
 
B. Procedural
 
On September 5, 2023, Plaintiffs
in Intervention, William Regan and Desiree Myers filed this Motion. On
September 19, 2023, Defendant filed an opposition brief. On October 25, 2023,
Plaintiffs filed a reply brief. 
 
¿II. EVIDENTIARY OBJECTIONS

Defendant’s Evidentiary
Objections Against Plaintiffs in Intervention 
Sustain: none. 
 
Overrule: 1-11
 
Plaintiffs in Intervention’s
Evidentiary Objections against Defendant
Sustain: 1
 
Overrule: 2-6
 
IV. ANALYSIS ¿ 
¿ 
A.   
Motion for
Contempt
 
Legal
Standard 
A court may find a person in contempt for
disobedience of a lawful court order.  (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 1209, subd.
(a)(6), 1218.)  “ ‘The elements of proof necessary to support punishment
for contempt are: (1) a valid court order, (2) the alleged contemnor’s
knowledge of the order, and (3) noncompliance.  [Citation.]’ ”  (Koshak
v. Malek (2011) 200 Cal.App.4th 1540, 1548-1549 (Koshak).)  A
finding of contempt must be based on a “clear, intentional violation of a
specific, narrowly drawn order.  Specificity is an essential prerequisite
of a contempt citation.”  (Van v. Language Line Services, Inc.
(2017) 8 Cal.App.5th 73, 82.)  “Unless the cite has concealed
himself from the court, he must be personally served with the affidavit and
order to show cause; otherwise, the court lacks jurisdiction to proceed.” 
(Cedars-Sinai Imaging Medical Group v. Superior Court (2000) 83
Cal.App.4th 1281, 1286-1287.) 
“When the contempt is not committed in the
immediate view and presence of the court, or of the judge at chambers, an
affidavit shall be presented to the court or judge of the facts constituting
the contempt, or a statement of the facts by the referees or arbitrators, or
other judicial officers.” (Id.) In the context of an affidavit or statement of
facts submitted in connect with a contempt motion “[i]f no objection
is made to the sufficiency of such affidavit or statement during the hearing on
the charges contained therein, jurisdiction of the subject matter shall not
depend on the averments of such affidavit or statement, but may be established
by the facts found by the trial court to have been proved at such hearing, and
the court shall cause the affidavit or statement to be amended to conform to
proof.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 1211.5(a).)  
Discussion
            According to Plaintiffs in
Interventions’ counsel’s declaration, the “orders” involve a May 4, 2021 ruling
by the Superior Court which appointed an expert to assess Defendant Avedon’s
compliance with view enforcement decisions by the arbitrator and superior
court. (Declaration of William Regan (“Regan Decl.,”), ¶ 13.) Plaintiffs in
Intervention further assert that they have been required to initiate two
contempt proceedings to enforce the terms Avedon had formerly agreed to in
order to maintain his illicitly planted foliage. Specifically, on July 1, 2011,
Plaintiff notes Judge Stuart Rice found that Regan presented sufficient grounds
to initiate a contempt proceeding against Avedon. The individual appointed to
serve as an expert to assist the Court in determining whether Avedon’s property
was in violation of Judge O’Brien’s award submitted his report to the Court on
June 3, 2011 detailing the specific existing trees that are impacting Plaintiff
in Intervention’s view and how they can be maintained to comply with the
Court’s order. Plaintiffs in Intervention note that on July 1, 2011, the Court
entered an order finding Avedon to be in contempt of court for violating the
terms and conditions of Judge O’Brien’s Award. They note the order also
required Avedon take corrective measures and perform consistent maintenance.
However, Plaintiffs in Intervention contend that Avedon did not comply with the
July 1, 2011 Court order. 
            Next, Plaintiffs in Intervention
note that in 2020 and 2021, the Homes Association approved of Avedon’s plan to
plant Canary Island Date Palm Trees and obstruct Plaintiffs in Interventions’
view. However, they note that on April 20, 2021, Judge Deidre Hill issued a minute
order enjoining Avedon from proceeding with his landscaping project approved in
2021 by the Palos Verdes Homes Association. This minute order specified the
moving parties (Plaintiffs in Intervention) were to revise their proposed order
to specify that no planting known to mature to an elevation prohibited by the
court order is to be planted. Attached to the party’s counsel’s declaration are
photographs of the vegetation growing on Avedon’s property on February 3, 2023,
July 26, 2023, and October 17, 2023.
            Based on the above, Plaintiffs in
Intervention contend this Court should find Avedon in contempt of the Court’s
prior orders. 
            In opposition, Defendant Avedon
argues that there is no credible evidence that he continuously violated the
2011 order. Avedon contends that Plaintiffs made this same claim in 2020,
however the Court found insufficient evidence of  a violation and declined to find Avedon in
contempt. Further, Avedon asserts that in 2021, Plaintiffs again sought to find
Avedon in contempt and the Court again denied Plaintiffs’ motion. Avedon
further notes that the pictures taken by Mr. Regan do not establish heights of
the foliage or what view it depicts. Next, Avedon argues that there has been no
violation of Judge Hill’s order as the preliminary injunction prevented him
from instituting the plans approved by Palos Verdes Art Jury. Avedon maintains
he has abided by this order. 
            Here, the Court agrees that
Plaintiffs’ moving papers do not provide the Court with sufficient evidence. The
Court is willing to set a hearing on an Order to Show Cause re contempt, but
just as previously noted by other Judges in this case, an inspection may need
to take place to determine all of these factors. For example, a reading of Judge
Hill’s January 4, 2022 minute order noted that after the neutral arborist inspected
the foliage, she noted that with respect to the olive tree: “the portion of the
olive tree’s breadth which exceeds the side of defendant’s roofline and the
height of defendant’s roofline shall be removed. Thereafter, maintained to not
exceed these limits.” Judge Hill adopted this finding from the arborist. This
Court also takes note that Judge Hill has already indicated to Plaintiffs that
their provided photos were overruled as instructive. As for the hedge, the
arborist found it was in compliance at the time. However, the arborist noted
that all dead, dying fronds on the back palms shall be removed quarterly. Based
on this, the only issue Plaintiffs’ photos may be able to resolve is the dying
fronds may have not been removed quarterly as the dates of photographs take
place in 3/4 quarters of the year and look to display the same dying fronds. 
            The Court will allow oral argument
as to the lack of evidence and whether the parties should solicit the help of
their neutral arborist again. 
B.    
Motion for Permanent Injunction
Legal Standard 
A plaintiff seeking injunctive relief must show the absence
of an adequate remedy at law. (CCP §526(4); Thayer Plymouth Center, Inc. v.
Chrysler Motors (1967) 255 Cal.App.2d 300, 307; Department of Fish &
Game v. AndersonCottonwood Irrigation District (1992) 8 Cal.App.4th 1554,
1565.) The concept of "inadequacy of the legal remedy" or
"inadequacy of damages" dates from the time of the early courts of
chancery, the idea being that an injunction is an unusual or extraordinary
equitable remedy that will not be granted if the remedy at law (usually
damages) will adequately compensate the injured plaintiff. (Department of
Fish & Game, supra, 8 Cal.App.4th at 1565.)  Money damages are not
adequate in cases involving real property, unique personal property, goodwill
of a business, or an individual’s reputation.  An injunction also is more
likely where damages are precluded by statute. (Id. at 1564.) In
considering the adequacy of damages, a court may consider whether the defendant
is insolvent such that a monetary judgment may be inadequate. (West Coast
Construction Co. v. Oceano Sanitary District (1971) 17 Cal.App.3d 693,
700.) 
 
A permanent injunction is obtained through a judgment. (Chico
Feminist Women’s Health Center v. Scully (1989) 208 Cal.App.3d 230, 253.)
Civil Code section 3420 et seq., specifically section 3422, sets forth grounds
for permanent injunctive relief. A permanent injunction should not be granted
unless the complained of acts are likely to reoccur. (Feminist Women’s
Health Center v. Blythe (1995) 32 Cal.App.4th 1641, 1658.) It may be issued
on the same terms as a preliminary injunction in the case or may contain new
terms based on the evidence presented at trial.  (Milani v. Smith
(1948) 85 Cal.App.2d 163, 167.)
Discussion
            Without
citing to any authority, Plaintiffs contend that this Court should find that
nine months of inaction amounts to abandonment of he new plans and subsequently
make Judge Hill’s order permanent. Here, as noted by Defendant’s opposition,
permanent injunctions issue following a final judgment on the merits. Here,
there has not been a trial to determine a final judgment on the merits. Accordingly,
the Motion for Permanent Injunction is DENIED.  
III. CONCLUSION 
 
¿ For the foregoing reasons, depending on oral argument,
Plaintiffs in Interventions’ Motion to Set Order re Contempt Hearing is
GRANTED. Further, Plaintiffs in Interventions’ Motion for Permanent Injunction
is DENIED.
 
Moving party is ordered to give
notice.
 
 
 