 Case Number:  22STCV09302    Hearing Date:   January 2, 2025    Dept:  O
 
 
 
 
 
 
SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - NORTHWEST DISTRICT
 



MIGUEL ALANIS, AN
  INDIVIDUAL; SHANE MOORE, AN INDIVIDUAL, 
                  Plaintiffs,
         vs.
 
CALLAN BUECHSENSCHUETZ, AN INDIVIDUAL;
  RICHARD BUECHSENSCHUETZ, AN INDIVIDUAL; AND DOES 1-50 INCLUSIVE,
 
                  Defendants.
 


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
 
)
)
)
)


     CASE NO.: 22STCV09302
 
ORDER
  DENYING DEFENDANTS’ MOTION FOR TERMINATING SANCTION FOR DISMISSAL OF MOORE’S
  COMPLAINT  
 
 



 
I.             
BACKGROUND 
This case
arises out of a motor vehicle accident between Plaintiffs Miguel Alanis
(“Alanis”) and Shane Moore (“Moore”)(collectively, “Plaintiffs”) and Defendants
Callan Buechsenschuetz (“Callan”) and Richard Buechsenschuetz (collectively,
“Defendants”). 
Defendants
now seek terminating, issue, or discovery sanctions against Moore.
///  
II.          
PROCEDURAL
HISTORY
On March 16, 2022, Plaintiffs filed
their Complaint, alleging (1) Negligence. 
On January 16, 2024, Defendants filed
their Answer. 
On August 23, 2024, this Court granted
Moore’s counsel’s Motion to be Relieved as Counsel. 
On September 10, 2024, this Court
granted Callan’s Motion to Compel Moore’s Answers to Demand for Production of
Documents, Motion to Compel Moore’s Answers to Form Interrogatories, and Motion
to Compel Moore’s Answers to Special Interrogatories (“Order”).
On November 27, 2024, Defendants filed
the instant Motion for Terminating Sanction for Dismissal of Moore’s Complaint
(“Motion”). 
On December 24, 2024, Defendants filed Notice
of Non-Opposition. 
III.       
LEGAL STANDARD 
A.           
Terminating, Issue, Evidentiary, and/or
Sanctions
On motion, if
a party “fails to obey an order compelling attendance, testimony, and
production, the court may make those orders that are just, including the
imposition of an issue sanction, an evidence sanction, or a terminating
sanction” as provided in Section 2030.010, et seq. (Code Civ. Proc. § 2025.450(h).)[1] The
“court, after notice to any affected party, person, or attorney, and after an
opportunity for hearing, may impose” monetary, issue, evidence, or terminating
sanctions “against anyone engaging in conduct that is a misuse of the discovery
process[.]” (Code Civ. Proc. § 2023.030(a)-(d).) Failing to respond or
submit to an authorized method of discovery and disobeying a court order to
provide discovery are misuses of the discovery process. (See Code
Civ. Proc. § 2023.010(d), (g).)   
///
IV.        
ANALYSIS
Defendants request
this Court dismiss Moore’s Complaint because Moore has not complied with the
Court’s September 10, 2024, Order. (See Motion, pp. 4-5.) At the end of
their Motion, Defendants also request alternative “issue and evidentiary
sanctions” to preclude “Plaintiff from presenting any evidence, including
testimony on any of the matters addressed by the unanswered discovery, and
imposing monetary sanctions in a sum determined by the court.” (Id. at
pp. 5-6.)
Moore did not oppose.
The Court declines to
issue Defendants’ requested terminating, issue, or evidentiary sanctions. As an
initial matter, Defendants did not submit a separate statement to support their
alternative request for issue or evidentiary sanctions, as required by Rules of
Court, rule 3.1345(a). Even if the Court deems Defendants excused from this
requirement pursuant to rule 3.1345(b) as a result of Moore’s failure to
comply, the Court cannot grant the Motion as to issue or evidence sanctions
because Defendants did not include either of those sanctions in their Notice of
Motion and did not identify the specific issues or evidence they would like
established or excluded. Defendants’ general statement in their conclusion asking
the Court “preclude Plaintiff from presenting any evidence, including testimony
on any of the matters addressed by the unanswered discovery” is simply
insufficient. 
As for Defendants’
requested terminating sanctions by striking the Complaint in its entirety, the
Court finds such sanctions to be too harsh and procedural overkill given that
there are two plaintiffs but only one is in violation of this Court’s order. While
the Court expects its orders to be followed, Moore has failed to respond to
only one of the Court’s orders and the Court does not find this singular
failure sufficient to justify dismissal of his complaint. 
In light of the
substantive shortcomings outlined above combined with the fact Defendants are
equally unspecific about the amount of monetary sanctions they are seeking for
Moore’s failure to comply with the Order, as opposed to the fees associated
with bringing the instant Motion, the Court finds that Defendants have not
prevailed and are therefore not entitled to monetary sanctions either. 
Accordingly, the Court
DENIES Defendants’ Motion.
V.           
CONCLUSION
Based on the
foregoing, the Court DENIES Defendants’ Motion for Terminating
Sanction for Dismissal of Moore’s Complaint.
IT IS SO
ORDERED.
DATED:     January 2, 2025



Hon. Michael R. Amerian
Judge,
  Superior Court



 


