 Case Number:  22SMCV01932    Hearing Date:   December 3, 2024    Dept:  P Tentative Ruling
Chun v. Smith, Case no. 22SMCV01932
Hearing date December 3, 2024
Plaintiff
and Cross-Defendant Chun’s Demurrer to Second Amended Cross-Complaint
Plaintiff/cross-defendant
Chun sues defendant/cross-complainant Smith, who is in pro per, for
injuries arising out of an alleged assault. Defendant cross-complained for
intentional tort arising from defendant’s arrest subsequent to the assault.
Defendant filed a first amended cross-complaint for intentional tort and fraud
arising from plaintiff’s police reports and filed a second amended
cross-complaint for intentional infliction of emotional distress arising from
his arrest. Plaintiff demurs. No opposition was filed.
“The
function of a demurrer is to test the sufficiency of the complaint as a matter
of law.” Holiday Matinee, Inc. v. Rambus, Inc. (2004) 118 Cal.App.4th
1413, 1420. A complaint “is sufficient if it alleges ultimate rather than
evidentiary facts,” Doe v. City of Los Angeles (2007) 42 Cal.4th 531,
550, but plaintiff must allege essential facts “with reasonable precision and
with particularity sufficient to acquaint [the] defendant with the nature,
source and extent” of the plaintiff’s claim. Doheny Park Terrace Homeowners
Ass’n., Inc. v. Truck Ins. Exchange (2005) 132 Cal.App.4th 1076, 1099.
Plaintiff
argues defendant fails to state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of
action. The court previously noted defendant’s complaints sought to penalize
plaintiff for protected activity under Cal. Code Civ. Proc §47(2). See Min.
Order 9/10/24. Defendant repeats claims the court previously found unavailing,
including arguing plaintiff’s claims were knowingly false without
substantiating said argument and referring to videos that are not in evidence. Id.
As
before, the crux of defendant’s claims stem from plaintiff’s reports to law
enforcement, which are protected under Cal. Code Civ. Proc §47(2). Whether
defendant suffered harm as a result of plaintiff’s report does not remove that
protection. “An absolute privilege exists to protect citizens from the threat
of litigation for communications to government agencies whose function it is to
investigate and remedy wrongdoing.” Wise v. Thrifty Payless, Inc. (2000)
83 Cal.App.4th 1296, 1303. 
Defendant
fails to offer allegations showing outrageous conduct by plaintiff sufficient
to establish a cause of action for intentional infliction of emotional
distress. Further, defendant’s allegations stem from plaintiff’s reports to law
enforcement, which is protected activity. Defendant failed to state facts
sufficient to constitute a cause of action despite being given multiple opportunities
to amend his pleading.
Plaintiff’s
demurrer to defendant’s second amended cross-complaint is unopposed and is
SUSTAINED without leave to amend.