  Case Number:  22SMCV01367    Hearing Date:   December 3, 2024    Dept:  P Tentative Ruling
Yu v. Rari Capital Infrastructure,
Case no. 22SMCV01367
Hearing date December 3, 2024
Defendants’
Motion to Extend Discovery Cutoffs
Plaintiff
Yu sues defendants Rari Capital Infrastructure, LLC, Fei Labs, Inc. and
Longarzo for breach of contract arising from the alleged conversion of
cryptocurrency assets. Defendants seek limited discovery: (1) a recent SEC
complaint and consent against Rari Capital, Inc.; (2) plaintiff and plaintiff’s
counsel’s association with Emily Yu, plaintiff’s mother and an attorney with a
conflicted law firm; and (3) the deposition of plaintiff’s expert witness.
Plaintiff opposes and requests sanctions. Defendants offer declarations of
counsel Gates and general counsel for Fei Labs, Inc. Grieco.
Courts
have “inherent authority” to control proceedings before them, including
discretion to extend discovery deadlines. See, e.g., Briggs v. Brown
(2017) 3 Cal.5th 808, 852, as modified on denial of reh’g Oct. 25, 2017;
Hernandez v. Superior Ct. (2004) 115 Cal.App.4th 1242, 1246, as
modified Feb. 24, 2004. In assessing whether to grant a motion to reopen
discovery following the setting of a new trial date, §2024.050 requires the
Court to consider “any matter relevant to the leave requested, including, but
not limited to, the following: (1) The necessity and the reasons for the
discovery. (2) The diligence or lack of diligence of the party seeking the
discovery or the hearing of a discovery motion, and the reasons that the
discovery was not completed or that the discovery motion was not heard earlier.
(3) Any likelihood that permitting the discovery or hearing the discovery
motion will prevent the case from going to trial on the date set, or otherwise
interfere with the trial calendar, or result in prejudice to any other party.
(4) The length of time that has elapsed between any date previously set, and
the date presently set, for the trial of the action.” Code Civ. Proc. §
2024.050(b).
Defendants
argue additional discovery is necessary regarding; (1) SEC findings as to
defendant Rari Capital Infrastructure, Inc.’s relation to Rari Capital, Inc.;
and (2) whether a conflict of interest exists as a result of plaintiff’s
mother’s involvement in plaintiff’s case, despite the fact that her firm,
Latham and Watkins, previously represented defendant Fei Labs, Inc. Defendants
request permission to depose plaintiff’s expert witness, as said witness was
designated while defendants’ MSJ was pending, and defendants were unable to
discover an alleged discoverable report. Decl. Gates, exh. 1.
Plaintiff
argues defendants have no good cause and have been dilatory in discovery.
Plaintiff argues defendants had two years to discover whether a conflict of
interest existed regarding plaintiff’s mother and her firm’s representation of
defendant Fei Labs, Inc. Plaintiff argues dismissal of defendant Fei Labs, Inc.
eliminates the need for discovery regarding plaintiff’s mother’s role.
Plaintiff argues defendants have known since the outset of the case that the
relationship between Rari Capital Infrastructure, Inc. and Rari Capital, Inc.
as alleged successor in interest was the premise of plaintiff’s claim.
Plaintiff argues his expert witness designation and declaration were served 5/20/24,
giving defendants sufficient time to depose the expert.
Defendants
assert they did not learn of the potential conflict of interest regarding
plaintiff’s mother until defendants retained new counsel which was in contact
with plaintiff’s mother’s firm. Decl. Grieco exh. 1. Further, defendants assert
plaintiff previously refused to produce communications with plaintiff’s mother,
asserting attorney-client privilege. Defendants argue plaintiff now asserts
plaintiff’s mother never functioned as counsel, so all communications with are
discoverable, despite previously being improperly denied to defendants.
Defendants are correct that communications regarding plaintiff's mother’s
involvement are discoverable, and the risk of prejudice to defendants from any
conflict weighs in favor of allowing defendants to discover those
communications. 
Defendants
argue they are seeking discovery related to the SEC’s 9/18/24-9/19/24 complaint
and consent judgment against Rari Capital, Inc. and related findings regarding
defendants’ relationship to Rari Capital, Inc. as alleged successor in
interest. Such discovery could not have occurred prior to the consent
judgment’s filing. Plaintiff’s claims against defendant Rari Capital
Infrastructure, Inc. are based on a theory of successor-in-interest, so such
limited non-party discovery goes directly to defendants’ raised defenses.  
Defendants
argue in light of the trial date of 2/3/25, the deadline to exchange expert
witness information has not passed, as it would be 12/15/24. Defendants argue
they were not dilatory in seeking to depose plaintiff’s expert, and allowing
the deposition would not delay trial or prejudice plaintiff. 
Trial
is set for 2/3/25. Trial was initially set for 3/11/24 but was continued three
times due to plaintiff’s motions to compel, the court’s request for additional
briefing and defendants’ previous counsel’s withdrawal. Defendants seek limited
non-party discovery regarding the SEC complaint and consent judgment,
plaintiff’s mother’s conflicts of interest and role in plaintiff’s litigation
and to depose plaintiff's expert witness. Defendants established the necessity
and reasons for this discovery. Defendants demonstrated they were not dilatory
with regards to the SEC’s filings and plaintiff’s mother’s involvement. While
defendants likely could have deposed plaintiff’s expert witness during the MSJ
briefing, allowing defendants to depose plaintiff's expert witness now neither
delays trial nor prejudices plaintiff. 
Plaintiff
seeks sanctions for opposing the instant motion. As the instant motion is meritorious,
such fees are not appropriate under Cal. Code Civ. Proc. §2023.050.  
Defendants’
motion to extend the discovery cutoff and conduct additional limited discovery
is GRANTED. Plaintiff’s request for sanctions DENIED.