 Case Number:  23STCV20107    Hearing Date:   September 10, 2024    Dept:  53 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles – Central District
Department
53
 
 




yessica koh

   , et al.;
 


   Plaintiffs,
 
 
vs.
 
 
susan koepke-green, a/k/a
   susan patricia koepke-green, a/k/a susan huning-green, a/k/a susan patricia
   huning-green, a/k/a susan green, a/k/a susan patricia green

   , et al.;
 


   Defendants.


Case
  No.:


23STCV20107




 


 




Hearing
  Date:


September
   10, 2024




 


 




Time:





   10:00 a.m.




 


 




[tentative]
  Order RE:
 
(1)  
  petition
  for approval of compromise of claim for minor claimant andrew koh
(2)  
  petition
  for approval of compromise of claim for minor claimant aileen reyes
(3)  
  petition
  for approval of compromise of claim for minor claimant brandon hernandez
(4)  
  petition
  for approval of compromise of claim for minor claimant geovanny reyes
(5)  
  petition
  for approval of compromise of claim for minor claimant cindy raigoza
(6)  
  petition
  for approval of compromise of claim for minor claimant yazmyn raigoza
(7)  
  petition
  for approval of compromise of claim for minor claimant carlos sanchez
(8)  
  petition
  for approval of compromise of claim for minor claimant jonathan sanchez
(9)  
  petition
  for approval of compromise of claim for minor claimant irie tapia
 



 
MOVING PARTY:                 Petitioner
Yessica Koh           
 
RESPONDING
PARTY:       Unopposed

(1)  
Petition
for Approval of Compromise of Claim for Minor Claimant Andrew Koh
(2)  
Petition
for Approval of Compromise of Claim for Minor Claimant Aileen Reyes
(3)  
Petition
for Approval of Compromise of Claim for Minor Claimant Brandon Hernandez
(4)  
Petition
for Approval of Compromise of Claim for Minor Claimant Geovanny Reyes
MOVING PARTY:                 Petitioner
Guadalupe Reyes   
 
RESPONDING
PARTY:       Unopposed

(5)  
Petition
for Approval of Compromise of Claim for Minor Claimant Cindy Raigoza
(6)  
Petition
for Approval of Compromise of Claim for Minor Claimant Yazmyn Raigoza
MOVING PARTY:                 Petitioner Liliann Garcia
 
RESPONDING PARTY:       Unopposed
(7)  
Petition for Approval of Compromise of
Claim for Minor Claimant Carlos Sanchez
(8)  
Petition for Approval of Compromise of
Claim for Minor Claimant Jonathan Sanchez
MOVING PARTY:                 Petitioner Monique Martinez
 
RESPONDING PARTY:       Unopposed
(9)  
Petition for Approval of Compromise of
Claim for Minor Claimant Irie Tapia
The court
considered the moving papers filed in connection with each petition.[1]  No opposition papers were filed.  
DISCUSSION
Now pending before the court are nine petitions seeking approval of
the compromise of claims on behalf of nine minor claimants.  First, plaintiff and petitioner Yessica Koh
seeks court approval of the settlements made on behalf of minor claimants
Andrew Koh, Aileen Reyes, Brandon Hernandez, and Geovanny Reyes.  Second, plaintiff and petitioner Guadalupe
Reyes seeks court approval of the settlements made on behalf of minor claimants
Cindy Raigoza and Yazmyn Raigoza.  Third,
plaintiff and petitioner Liliann Garcia seeks court approval of the settlements
made on behalf of minor claimants Carlos Sanchez and Jonathan Sanchez.  Finally, plaintiff and petitioner Monique
Martinez seeks court approval of the settlement made on behalf of minor
claimant Irie Tapia.
The compromise of a minor’s disputed claim for damages is valid only
after it has been approved, upon the filing of a petition, by the court.¿
(Prob. Code, § 3500.)¿ The petition must be verified by the petitioner, must
contain a full disclosure of all information that has any bearing upon the
reasonableness of the compromise, and must be prepared on Judicial Council form
MC-350.¿ (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 7.950.)¿¿ 
Defendants Susan Koepke-Green, Kismet Enterprises LLC, Kismet
Enterprises, LLC, Brian Koepke, COIG, LLC, and B&S Industries, LLC have
agreed to pay a total of $478,000 to settle this action, of which $6,700 will
be separately allocated to each minor claimant. 
(Pets., MC-350, ¶¶ 10-11, 16.)  Of
the $6,700 allocated to the minor claimants, $1,675 will be paid to counsel for
attorney’s fees.  (Pets., MC-350, ¶¶13,
16.)  The remaining $5,025 will be
deposited into insured accounts for the minor claimants, subject to withdrawal
only on authorization of the court. 
(Pets., MC-350, ¶ 18, subd. (b)(2).) 
The court has reviewed the petitions and finds the settlements to be
fair and reasonable, and in the best interests of minor claimants Andrew Koh,
Aileen Reyes, Brandon Hernandez, Geovanny Reyes, Cindy Raigoza, Yazmyn Raigoza,
Carlos Sanchez, Jonathan Sanchez, and Irie Tapia.  The court finds that the declaration of Jesus
A. Rodriguez is sufficient to support the requests for $1,675 in attorney’s
fees, which represents 25 percent of the gross settlement amount of
$6,700.  (Pets., Attachment 13a,
Rodriguez Decl., ¶¶ 4-5.)  
The court therefore grants the petitions. 
ORDER
            The court grants plaintiff and
petitioner Yessica Koh’s (1) petition for approval of compromise of claim for
minor claimant Andrew Koh, (2) petition for approval of compromise of claim for
minor claimant Aileen Reyes, (3) petition for approval of compromise of claim for
minor claimant Brandon Hernandez, and (4) petition for approval of compromise
of claim for minor claimant Geovanny Reyes
The court grants plaintiff and petitioner Guadalupe Reyes’s (1) petition
for approval of compromise of claim for minor claimant Cindy Raigoza, and (2)
petition for approval of compromise of claim for minor claimant Yazmyn
Raigoza.  
The court grants plaintiff and petitioner Liliann Garcia’s (1)
petition for approval of compromise of claim for minor claimant Carlos Sanchez,
and (2) petition for approval of compromise of claim for minor claimant Jonathan
Sanchez.
The court grants plaintiff and petitioner Monique Martinez’s petition
for approval of compromise of claim for minor claimant Irie Tapia.
The court sets an Order to Show Cause re: filing Receipt and
Acknowledgement of Order for the Deposit of Money into Blocked Accounts (as to
all nine minor claimants) for hearing on November 18, 2024, at 8:30 a.m., in
Department 53.  
            The court orders plaintiff and
petitioner Yessica Koh to give notice of this ruling.
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
DATED:  September 10, 2024
 
_____________________________
Robert
B. Broadbelt III
Judge
of the Superior Court


