  Case Number:  21STCV07398    Hearing Date:   November 1, 2023    Dept:  32 


 
kristina
  turpin,
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
 
LEARNING WITH A
  DIFFERENCE, INC. 
                        Defendant. 


 
  Case No.:  21STCV07398
  Hearing Date:  November 1, 2023
 
     [TENTATIVE]
  order RE:
plaintiff’s motion to compel further
  responses to requests for production 




 


 



BACKGROUND
            On February 24, 2021, Kristina
Turpin (“Plaintiff”) filed this employment discrimination action against
Learning with a Difference, Inc. (“Defendant”). Plaintiff alleges that Defendant
discriminated against her based on her gender and disability, including being a
pregnant woman.            On September 29,
2023, Plaintiff filed the instant motion to compel further responses to requests
for production. Defendant filed its opposition on October 19, 2023. Plaintiff
filed her reply on October 25, 2023.
LEGAL STANDARD
“On receipt of a response to a demand for
inspection, copying, testing, or sampling, the demanding party may move for an
order compelling further response to the demand if the demanding party deems
that any of the following apply: (1) A statement of compliance with the demand
is incomplete. (2) A representation of inability to comply is inadequate,
incomplete, or evasive. (3) An objection in the response is without merit or
too general.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.310(a).) 
MEET AND CONFER
            A motion to compel further must be
accompanied by a meet and confer declaration demonstrating an attempt to
resolve the matter informally. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.310(b).) The Court
finds that Plaintiff has satisfied the meet and confer requirement. (See Dean
Decl.)
DISCUSSION
I.
RFP Nos. 19, 23, 24
            RFP Nos. 19, 23, and 24 ask for documents
relating to the reasons for Defendant’s decision to terminate Plaintiff,
documents reflecting actions taken by Defendant in response to Plaintiff’s
complaints, and documents evidencing the personnel policies in place during the
pertinent period. To each request, Defendant objected and then responded that “Defendant
will produce all documents within Defendant’s possession, custody and control
that are responsive to this request, to the extent they exist. Please see bates
1 to 549 produced herewith.”
            A statement of compliance “shall
state that the production, inspection, copying, testing, or sampling, and
related activity demanded, will be allowed either in whole or in part, and that
all documents or things in the demanded category that are in the possession,
custody, or control of that party and to which no objection is being made will
be included in the production.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.220.) Furthermore, a
statement of inability to comply with any part of the request must “specify
whether the inability to comply is because the particular item or category has
never existed, has been destroyed, has been lost, misplaced, or stolen, or has
never been, or is no longer, in the possession, custody, or control of the
responding party. The statement shall set forth the name and address of any
natural person or organization known or believed by that party to have
possession, custody, or control of that item or category of item.” (Id.,
§ 2031.230.)
            Defendant’s response does not state
whether the production will be allowed in whole or in part. The statement that Defendant
will produce all documents in its possession is a separate requirement. Even if
Defendant produces all documents in its possession, that may only constitute
part of the request. Notably, the response implies that certain documents do not
exist. Defendant’s response must comply with Section 2031.230 to the extent any
documents are not produced because they do not exist, including an explanation
of whether the documents were lost, destroyed, etc. Additionally, Defendant
must set forth the information of any party known or believed to possess responsive
documents even if Defendant does not possess the documents. Therefore, a
further response is needed for RFP Nos. 19, 23, and 24. 
II.
RFP No. 43
            RFP No. 43 asks for any and all
documents explaining the role of the board of directors in relation to
Defendant. Defendant responded: “Overbroad as to scope and time, vague and
ambiguous, burdensome, harassing, irrelevant and not likely to lead to the
discovery of admissible evidence, violates attorney client privilege and/or
work production, and may pertain to information that is confidential and/or
proprietary in nature, including trade secret.”
            The primary dispute over this RFP is
its relevance to the claims being litigated. “[A]ny party may obtain discovery
regarding any matter, not privileged, that is relevant to the subject matter
involved in the pending action or to the determination of any motion made in
that action, if the matter either is itself admissible in evidence or appears
reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence.
Discovery may relate to the claim or defense of the party seeking discovery or
of any other party to the action.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2017.010.) “[D]oubts as
to relevance should generally be resolved in favor of permitting discovery.” (Williams
v. Superior Court (2017) 3 Cal.5th 531, 542.) 
Plaintiff argues that she is “entitled to
conduct discovery regarding the authority of the Board and whether the
authority extended to decisions regarding Defendant’s antidiscrimination
policies and practices, personnel decisions and disability accommodations.”
(Plntf.’s Sep. Stmnt. 9:1-3.) This sufficiently establishes the relevance of
the requested information under the broad discovery standard. Therefore, a
further response is required for RFP No. 43.
CONCLUSION
            Plaintiff’s motion to compel further
responses is GRANTED. Defendant shall provide a further response to the subject
RFPs within 15 days. Sanctions are denied as the parties acted with substantial
justification. 
             