  Case Number:  21STCV34645    Hearing Date:   May 3, 2024    Dept:  31 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Kerry Bensinger, Department 31
 
 
HEARING DATE:      May 3, 2024                                    TRIAL DATE:  February
24, 2025
                                                           
CASE:                                Prospect Park, LLC, et al.  v. Azealia Banks, et al.
 
CASE NO.:                 21STCV34645
 





















 
MOTION
TO COMPEL RESPONSES TO SUPPLEMENTAL DISCOVERY 



 
MOVING PARTY:               Plaintiffs
and Cross-Defendants Prospect Park, LLC and Jeff Kwatinetz
 
RESPONDING PARTY:     No opposition
 
 
I.          BACKGROUND
 
            On September 25, 2023, Plaintiffs and Cross-Defendants, Prospect
Park, LLC and Jeff Kwatinetz (hereafter, “Plaintiffs”), filed this motion to
(1) compel Defendant and Cross-Complainant Azealia Banks
(“Banks”) to appear at deposition for seven additional hours, (2) appointment
of a discovery referee at Banks’s expense, and (3) imposition of monetary
sanctions against Banks in an amount not less than $10,000.
 
The motion is unopposed.[1]
 
II.        DISCUSSION & LEGAL STANDARD 
 
a.     
Further
Deposition
 
Plaintiffs seek an order compelling Banks
to attend a further deposition session because she refused to provide
non-privileged, relevant information during her first deposition.
 
Once any party has taken the deposition of
any natural person, including that of a party to the action, neither the party
who gave, nor any other party who has been served with a deposition notice
pursuant to Section 2025.240 may take a subsequent deposition of that
deponent.”¿ (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.610, subd. (a).)¿ However, the Court, for
good cause shown, may grant leave to take a subsequent deposition.¿ (Code Civ.
Proc., § 2025.610, subd. (b).)¿  
 
Here, Plaintiffs demonstrate good cause
exists to compel Banks to appear for further deposition.  They provide a lengthy description of Banks
conduct during her first deposition, which included showing up two hours late
to deposition, disparaging and harassing those who attended the deposition,
refusing to answer substantive questions and despite the absence of objections
from her counsel.  (See Sorrell Decl., ¶¶
2-6; see also Ex. 1, Banks Depo.) 
Plaintiff, having not filed an opposition, does not offer any arguments
to the contrary.
 
b.     
Discovery
Referee 
 
Plaintiffs also seek an order appointing a discovery referee at Banks’s
expense.  
Code of Civil Procedure section 639 and California Rules of
Court, rule 3.921 provide for the appointment of a referee on motion of a party
or by the court. A referee can be appointed for discovery disputes. (Code Civ.
Proc., § 639, subd. (a)(5) “[A referee may be appointed:] (5) When the court in
any pending action determines that it is necessary for the court to appoint a
referee to hear and determine any and all discovery motions and disputes
relevant to discovery in the action and to report findings and make a
recommendation thereon.”].)¿¿¿ 
Appointment requires a court finding of “exceptional
circumstances.” (Id., § 639, subd. (d)(2).)  “A discovery referee may be appointed to
monitor depositions where antagonism between the parties might otherwise
prolong the proceedings and frustrate discovery.  (Weil & Brown, Cal. Prac. Guide Civ. Pro.
Before Trial (The Rutter Group 2023) ¶ 8:1804.5.)
Here, the court finds there are
exceptional circumstances for the appointment of a discovery referee.  Plaintiffs submit the deposition transcript
from Banks’s first deposition and emails that Banks sent to plaintiffs’ counsel
after the deposition which demonstrate Banks’s refusal to answer relevant
questions at deposition and her inappropriate conduct during and after the
deposition.  (See Sorrell Decl., ¶¶ 7-9, Exs. 2, 3, and 4.)  A discovery referee is needed to monitor
Banks’s further deposition and to rule on any objections asserted during the
same.  However, the court is not inclined
to impose the entire costs of the referee on Banks.  The parties are to share equally in the
referee costs; the prevailing party in this action may thereafter seek to
recover the referee cost as costs of suit.
c.      
Monetary
Sanctions
  
Plaintiffs request sanctions in the sum of
$10,000 against Banks. 
 
“If a motion under [Code of Civil
Procedure section 2025.450] subdivision (a) is granted, the court shall impose
a monetary sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010) in favor
of the party who noticed the deposition and against the deponent or the party
with whom the deponent is affiliated, unless the court finds that the one
subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other
circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.”¿ (Code Civ. Proc., §
2025.450, subd. (g)(1).)¿¿¿¿¿ 
 
Given that the court has granted this
motion, sanctions are warranted.  Accordingly,
sanctions are imposed against Banks in the sum of $5,000.[2]  
 
III.      CONCLUSION 
 
Accordingly, the unopposed motion is granted.  Defendant and Cross-Complainant Azealia Banks is
to appear for further deposition within 45 days of this order, unless the
parties cannot agree upon a referee, in which case the court will set the time for
the deposition after the referee is selected. 

 
The request for sanctions is granted.  Sanctions are imposed against Defendant and
Cross-Complainant Azealia Banks in the sum of $5,000 to be paid within 90 days
of this order.
 
The request for appointment of a discovery referee is
granted.  The parties are to share
equally in the cost of the discovery referee. 
Defendant is to prepare a proposed order, making the requisite findings,
in compliance of CCP section 639.  
 
The court sets a Status Conference re: Appointment of
Discovery Referee for June 3, 2024.  If
the parties cannot agree on a referee, the parties are each to present a list
of three discovery referees and include each candidate’s CVs.  The parties must submit their candidates no
later than May 17, 2024.  The parties may
file objections to the opposing party’s submission no later than May 24, 2024. 
 
The trial date was continued to February 24, 2025.  The hearing on the cross-motions for summary
adjudication was continued to October 18, 2024. 
However, the discovery deadline is still tied to the previous trial date
of July 9, 2025.  Discovery has yet to be
completed.  If the parties cannot reach a
stipulation to reopen discovery, the court will specially set a hearing to hear
from the parties regarding reopening discovery. 
That hearing date will be June 3, 2024, at 8:30 am.  The briefing on any such motion will comply
with CCP section 1005 (which means the motion must be served by roughly May 8,
2024 and filed by May 10, 2024).  The
moving party must specifically outline and identify the discovery needed (and
why) as well as the timing to complete that discovery.  The court will hear from the parties
regarding their respective and proposed discovery plans.  
 
Moving party to give notice. 

 
 
 
Dated:   May 3, 2024                   




 


   




 


  Kerry Bensinger  
  Judge of the Superior Court 




 
                                                                        
 


