  Case Number:  23STLC02420    Hearing Date:   March 5, 2024    Dept:  39 Executive
Presentations, Inc. v. Maro Burunsuzyan, et al.
Case No.
23STLC02420
Motions to Compel
Motion to Deem
Admitted
Sanctions Order
 
            Plaintiff
Executive Presentations, Inc. (“Plaintiff”) filed this action against Maro
Burunsuzyan, Esq.  Plaintiff moves to
compel Maro Burunsuzyan to serve responses to Request for Production of
Documents, Set One (“RPD”) and a supplemental request for documents.  Plaintiff also moves to deem the matters
specified in the Requests for Admission (“RFAs”) to have been admitted.  
 
            Plaintiff
served the RPDs on October 12, 2023, and the supplemental request on October
28, 2023, via email.  Defendant’s counsel
represents that “Defendant/Cross-Complainant Maro Burunsuzyan has now served
written responses without objections to each of the requests for production at
issue in this motion . . . .” 
(Declaration of David L. Scott, ¶ 2.) 
Therefore, the motions to compel are denied as moot.  
 
            Plaintiff
served the RFAs on August 10, 2023.  Defendant
argues that service was improper, but the Court previously addressed this
issue.  (See Court’s Minute Order, dated January
18, 2024.)  Nevertheless, Defendant has
now served responses without objections. 
(See Declaration of Maro Burunsuzyan, ¶ 2.)  Therefore, the motion to deem admitted is
denied as moot.
 
            The Court awarded
sanctions to Plaintiff at the prior hearing but declined to set an amount because
the Court was “concerned by potential duplication in sanctions given that there
are three other motions raising similar issues.”  (See Court’s Minute Order, dated January 18,
2024.)  Now, having reviewed all the
motions, the Court finds that Plaintiff is entitled to sanctions.  The Court orders Maro Burunsuzyan to pay sanctions
to Plaintiff, by and through counsel, in the amount of $4,350 plus four filing
fees of $61.65 each.
 
            Based upon
the foregoing, the Court orders as follows:
 
            1.         Plaintiff’s motions to compel responses
to the request for production of documents and supplement are denied as moot.
 
            2.         Plaintiff’s motion to deem the matters
specified in the requests for admission to have been admitted is denied as
moot.
 
            3.         The Court orders Maro Burunsuzyan to pay
Plaintiff, by and through counsel, discovery sanctions in the amount of $4,596.60
within thirty (30) days.
 
            4.         Defendant’s counsel shall provide
notice and file proof of such with the Court. 

 