This is a habitability matter.  On July 27, 2023, Plaintiff Fred Franklin filed the operative First Amended Complaint for (1) breach of implied warranty of habitability, (2) breach of statutory warranty of habitability, (3) breach of covenant of quiet enjoyment, (4) negligence, (5) violation of Civ. Code § 1942.4, (6) private nuisance, and (7) violation of tenant anti-harassment ordinance.  Defendants Prentice Parr and Larhonda Parr now seek summary judgment or, alternatively, summary adjudication of all causes of action.  Defendants primarily argue that Plaintiff’s claims fail because he only experienced a one-week period of bed bugs, which is a de minimis defect.  The law of summary judgment provides courts “a mechanism to cut through the parties’ pleadings in order to determine whether, despite their allegations, trial is in fact necessary to resolve their dispute.”  (Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 843.)  In reviewing a motion for summary judgment or adjudication, courts employ a three-step analysis: “(1) identify the issues framed by the pleadings; (2) determine whether the moving party has negated the opponent’s claims; and (3) determine whether the opposition has demonstrated the existence of a triable, material factual issue.”  (Hinesley v. Oakshade Town Center (2005) 135 Cal.App.4th 289, 294.)  The moving party bears the initial burden of production to make a prima facie showing of the nonexistence of any triable issue, in which case the burden shifts to the opposing party to make a prima facie showing of the existence of a triable issue.  (Code Civ. Proc. § 437c(p)(2).)  To show a triable issue of material fact exists, the opposing party may not rely on the mere allegations or denials of the pleadings, but instead must set forth the specific facts showing that a triable issue exists as to that cause of action or a defense thereto.  (Aguilar, at p. 849.)  Courts “liberally construe the evidence in support of the party opposing summary judgment and resolve doubts concerning the evidence in favor of that party.”  (Dore v. Arnold Worldwide, Inc. (2006) 39 Cal.4th 384, 389.)A claim for breach of the implied warranty of habitability requires (1) the existence of a material defective condition affecting the premises' habitability, (2) notice to the landlord of the condition within a reasonable time after the tenant's discovery of the condition, (3) the landlord was given a reasonable time to correct the deficiency, and (4) resulting damages.  (Erlach v. Sierra Asset Servicing, LLC (2014) 226 Cal.App.4th 1281, 1297.)Civ. Code § 1941.1(a)(6) states that a property shall be deemed uninhabitable if there is a substantial violation by the landlord in precluding vermin.     Negligence requires duty, breach of duty, proximate causation, and damages.  (N.N.V. v. American Assn. of Blood Banks (1999) 75 Cal.App.4th 1358, 1402.) The elements for a nuisance claim are as follows: “First, the plaintiff must prove an interference with his use and enjoyment of his property. [] Second, the invasion of the plaintiff's interest in the use and enjoyment of the land [must be] substantial, i.e., that it cause[s] the plaintiff to suffer substantial actual damage. [] Third, [t]he interference with the protected interest must not only be substantial, but it must also be unreasonable’ [citation], i.e., it must be of such a nature, duration or amount as to constitute unreasonable interference with the use and enjoyment of the land.”  (Mendez v. Rancho Valencia Resort Partners, LLC (2016) 3 Cal.App.5th 248, 262–63 (internal quotation marks omitted).)  “A nuisance may be either a negligent or an intentional tort.”  (Stoiber v. Honeychuck (1980) 101 Cal.App.3d 903, 920.)  Also, “ ‘It has long been the rule that in the absence of language to the contrary, every lease contains an implied covenant of quiet enjoyment. [Citations.] Initially, the covenant related solely to the right of possession and only protected the lessee against any act of molestation committed by the landlord or anyone claiming under him, or by someone with paramount title, which directly affected the tenant’s use and possession of the leased premises; the covenant was construed to protect the lessee against physical interference only. [Citation.] In recent years, the covenant of quiet enjoyment has been expanded, and in this state, for example, it insulates the tenant against any act or omission on the part of the landlord, or anyone claiming under him, which interferes with a tenant’s right to use and enjoy the premises for the purposes contemplated by the tenancy.’ ” (Nativi V. Deutsche Bank National Trust Company (2014) 223 Cal.App.4th 261, 291-292.) “It is not necessary to show that the landlord acted with the subjective intent to compel the tenant to leave the property or deprive the tenant of quiet enjoyment.” (Id. at p. 292.)  However, the interference must be substantial.  (Andres v. Mobile Aire Estates (2005) 125 Cal.App.4th 578, 589.) The Court finds that the presence of bed bugs for one week is not inherently an insubstantial event.  On the contrary, their presence for a short time can result in bites and psychological trauma.  The jury should decide whether, under the circumstance here, there was a substantial violation that would impose liability for Plaintiff’s first, second, third, fourth, and sixth causes of action.  That is, given the evidence that they have presented, Defendants have failed to carry their burden on such claims.  Further, none of the cases cited by Defendants establishes that a bed bug infestation alone is insufficient.Next, the fifth cause of action is premised on Civ. Code § 1942.4, which states, “A landlord of a dwelling may not demand rent, collect rent, issue a notice of a rent increase, or issue a three-day notice to pay rent or quit . . . if all of the following conditions exist prior to the landlord’s demand or notice: (1) The dwelling substantially lacks any of the affirmative standard characteristics listed in Section 1941.1 or violates Section 17920.10 of the Health and Safety Code, or is deemed and declared substandard as set forth in Section 17920.3 of the Health and Safety Code because conditions listed in that section exist to an extent that endangers the life, limb, health, property, safety, or welfare of the public or the occupants of the dwelling. (2) A public officer or employee who is responsible for the enforcement of any housing law, after inspecting the premises, has notified the landlord or the landlord’s agent in writing of his or her obligations to abate the nuisance or repair the substandard conditions. (3) The conditions have existed and have not been abated 35 days beyond the date of service of the notice specified in paragraph (2) and the delay is without good cause. For purposes of this subdivision, service shall be complete at the time of deposit in the United States mail. (4) The conditions were not caused by an act or omission of the tenant or lessee in violation of Section 1929 or 1941.2.”The fifth cause of action survives to the extent that Defendants’ own evidence shows that they were issued a notice in September 2022 by HACLA for infestations; that notice instructed Defendants to remedy the defect for a re-inspection.  Defendants contend that they tried to fumigate but Plaintiff was not cooperative because he did not make preparations with regard to his belongings.  It seems undisputed that Plaintiff was again hospitalized at this time and then he never returned to the property, apparently abandoning his things.  On the one hand, this could provide a justification for the delay in remedying the defect.  On the other hand, Defendants fail to carry their burden because they fail to indicate in their moving papers when they actually addressed the infestation, if ever.  Notably, a landlord can enter the premises if a known repair is necessary.  (Landlord's right of entry, 10 Cal. Real Est. § 34:57 (4th ed.).) The seventh cause of action is premised on LAMC § 45.33, which states in relevant part that “Tenant Harassment shall be defined as a landlord’s knowing and willful course of conduct directed at a specific tenant or tenants that causes detriment and harm, and that serves no lawful purpose, including, but not limited to, the following actions: . . . Failing to perform and timely complete necessary repairs and maintenance required by Federal, State, County, or local housing, health, or safety laws . . . .” Defendants present evidence that their conduct was not wilful because it was Plaintiff that was uncooperative with regard to fumigation efforts.  They also present evidence that Plaintiff testified that he was directly told that no repairs would be made.  It’s also not apparent when the property was fumigated.  Thus, again, Defendants have failed to carry their burden, as their own evidence shows triable issues.Therefore, the Motion for Summary Judgment/Adjudication is denied.  Moving parties to give notice.