 Case Number:  22STCV28415    Hearing Date:   December 5, 2024    Dept:  52 Defendant Safe-Guard Productions International, LLC’s
Demurrers 
            Defendant Safe-Guard Productions
International, LLC (Safe-Guard) demurs to plaintiff Gail Wiggan’s first amended
complaint in case No. 22STCV28415.  The
court’s file includes only the initial complaint filed on August 31, 2022.  The court will therefore construe this
demurrer as challenging the initial complaint.
Safe-Guard also demurs to plaintiff’s complaint in case No. 22STCV28591
on September 2, 2022.  
The complaints in both actions are nearly identical.  In a prior motion, plaintiff acknowledged the
complaints were “duplicate filings.” 
(Motion to Consolidate, p. 3.) 
The court consolidated these actions for all purposes on August 12,
2024.  The court will therefore address
both complaints simultaneously.
Summary
of Allegations
            Both of plaintiff Gail Wiggan’s complaints
name three defendants: Interinsurance Exchange of the Automobile Club, American
Credit Acceptance, and Safe-Guard Products, LLC.  Both complaints are titled, “Complaint for
Breach of Contract, Fraud, and Damages.” 
(Comp., p. 1.)  The bodies of both
complaints do not label any causes of action. 
            Plaintiff alleges her vehicle was
deemed a total loss after an accident in 2021. 
(Comp., p. 2.)  She alleges her “insurer,
Interinsurance Exchange of the Automobile Club has promised to payoff my
indebtedness to the lender American Credit Acceptance” for the vehicle.  (Ibid.)  Plaintiff further alleges, “[I]f any balance is due and the amount that Interinsurance Exchange of the
Automobile is not fully satisfiable by the payment made by AAA, a claim would
need to be filed with Safe-Guard Products GAP insurance, to cover the remaining
balance.”  (Ibid.)  
            Plaintiff alleges defendant Interinsurance
Exchange offered two payment options: (1) if she turned in the vehicle, her
insurer would pay American Credit Acceptance $16,079.81 and pay plaintiff $218,
or (2) if plaintiff kept the vehicle, her insurer would pay American Credit
Acceptance $8,724.70.  (Comp., p.
2.)  Plaintiff chose option two.  (Ibid.)  Interinsurance Exchange then informed
plaintiff that the lender would not let her keep the vehicle and would not
accept the payment.  (Id., pp.
2-3.)  
            With respect to the demurring
defendant, plaintiff alleges she had “Safe-Guard Products gap insurance to pay
off the remaining balance existing on the day of the accident.”  (Comp., p. 1.)  “The payment that the Safe-Guard Products Gap
Insurance company will issue is contingent upon the payment issued to the
lender by Interinsurance Exchange of the Automobile Club.  The SafeGuard Products Gap Insurance company
has not issued a payment because Interinsurance Exchange of Automobile Club has
not issued their payment.”  (Id.,
p. 2.)  Plaintiff further alleges, “The
Safe-Guard Products Gap Coverage should pay off the remaining amount of the
balanced owed.”  (Id., p. 3.)
Analysis
Plaintiff’s complaints are uncertain.  “ ‘
“Demurrers for uncertainty are disfavored, and are granted only if the pleading
is so incomprehensible that a defendant cannot reasonably respond.” ’ ”  (A.J. Fistes Corp. v. GDL Best
Contractors, Inc. (2019) 38 Cal.App.5th 677, 695, alterations
omitted.)  The complaint must
sufficiently apprise defendants of the claims against them.  (Ibid.)  
Plaintiff’s complaints do not meet this
standard.  The complaints’ titles suggest
plaintiff is asserting claims against Safe-Guard for both breach of contract
and fraud.  The complaints’ bodies do not
assert any fraud by Safe-Guard.  
As to breach of contract, the complaints
vaguely refer to a contract between plaintiff and Safe-Guard for “gap insurance
to pay off the remaining balance existing on the day of the accident.”  (Comp., p. 1.)  Plaintiff does not plead its legal effect,
attach a copy, or plead its terms verbatim as required for breach of contract.  (Miles v. Deutsche Bank National
Trust Co. (2015) 236 Cal.App.4th 394, 402.)  
Moreover, based on what plaintiff does allege
about the contract, she does not allege facts constituting breach.  She alleges Safe-Guard provided “gap
insurance to pay
off the remaining balance existing on the day of the accident.”  (Comp., p. 1.)  Plaintiff does not allege the balance owed on
loan or that there would be any remaining balance after Interinsurance Exchange
paid the lender.  
Rather than identifying any breach of the contract,
plaintiff alleges facts showing the failure of a condition precedent.  “Under the law of contracts, parties may expressly agree that a
right or duty is conditional upon the occurrence or nonoccurrence of an act or
event.  [Citations.]  Thus, a condition precedent is either an act
of a party that must be performed or an uncertain event that must happen before
the contractual right accrues or the contractual duty arises.”  (Platt Pacific, Inc. v. Andelson
(1993) 6 Cal.4th 307, 313.)  Generally,
failure of “ ‘a condition precedent will preclude an action for breach of
contract.’ ”  (Stephens & Stephens
XII, LLC v. Fireman’s Fund Ins. Co. (2014) 231 Cal.App.4th 1131, 1147.)
Plaintiff alleges
Safe-Guard’s payment “is contingent upon the payment issued to the lender by
Interinsurance Exchange,” and Safe-Guard “has not issued a payment because
Interinsurance Exchange of Automobile Club has not issued their payment.”  (Comp., p. 3.)  Plaintiff thus alleges facts showing Safe-Guard
had no obligation to issue payment until after the condition precedent of
Interinsurance Exchange’s payment. 
Without the first payment by the main insurer, it is impossible to
calculate the remaining balance owed for Safe-Guard’s gap insurance.  Plaintiff alleges that condition precedent did
not occur.  She therefore cannot succeed
on a claim for breach of contract against Safe-Guard.
Disposition
            Defendant Safe-Guard Productions
International, LLC’s demurrer to plaintiff’s complaint in case No. 22STCV28415
is sustained with leave to amend.  
Defendant Safe-Guard Productions International, LLC’s
demurrer to plaintiff’s complaint in case No. 22STCV28591 is sustained with leave to
amend. 
Plaintiff shall have 15 days to file a first amended
complaint.  She must file a single first
amended complaint under case No. 22STCV28415, which would supersede the
separate complaints in the two consolidated actions. 