 Case Number:  24STCV06590    Hearing Date:   May 31, 2024    Dept:  55 NATURE OF PROCEEDINGS:
Defendants’ Motion to Stay Action Pending Labor Commission Proceeding.
 
BACKGROUND
FRANCESCA WEBB (“Plaintiff”) brought this case against
BOUNTY LA, LLC and CYRUS DAVAR (“Defendants”) seeking damages after Defendants allegedly
stole monies belonging to Plaintiff, their former client. The causes of action
are (1) Conversion, (2)  Breach Of
Fiduciary Duty, (3) Fraud, (4) Declaratory Relief, (5) Breach Of The Implied
Covenant Of Good Faith And Fair Dealing, (6) Violation Of Civil Code § 3344,
(7) Violation Of Common Law Rights Of Publicity, (8) Violation Of Lab. Code §
1700.25, (9) Violation Of Bus. & Pro. Code § 17200, and (10) Accounting.
Defendants filed a motion to stay this action pending
the completion of Labor Commission proceedings between the parties. Plaintiff
disputes that the Labor Commission proceedings will conclusively resolve all,
or substantially all, issues between the parties. But Plaintiff expressly does
not oppose a stay until the proceedings are complete. Expressly consenting to the
stay procedure would be binding on any appeal. See, e.g., Stebbins v. White
(1987) 190 Cal.App.3d 769, 782.
 
LEGAL STANDARD
Courts have inherent power to stay cases pending
administrative review and exhaustion, including for efficiency. E.g., Neman
v. Com. Cap. Bank (2009) 173 Cal.App.4th 645, 653.
Res judicata and collateral estoppel can apply to
Labor Commissioner decisions, depending on the applicable factors, such as that
the decision became final, identical factual issues were involved, jurisdiction
existed to resolve claims of the subsequent action, and the claim could have
been raised in the prior proceeding. Noble v. Draper (2008) 160
Cal.App.4th 1, 12-18.
ANALYSIS
Defendants report that they filed a Petition to
Determine Controversy with the California Labor Commissioner, pursuant to the
parties’ written agreement. Declaration of Neville Johnson, ¶ 2, Ex. A. They
contend that the Court does not have jurisdiction over this case because of
that fact. Plaintiff agrees that the Labor Commissioner has
exclusive jurisdiction over some, but not all, the issues in this case, and
that this case should be stayed.
This case expressly is based on, “Talent Agencies Act,
Labor Code section 1700 et seq….” Complaint, ¶ 1. “[C]ontroversies colorably
arising under the Talent Agencies Act are within the exclusive original
jurisdiction of the Commissioner….” Styne v. Stevens (2001) 26 Cal.4th
42, 59.
Thus, the Court’s current lack of jurisdiction over
this civil case is clear. 
Additionally, a stay would promote efficiency by
having at least some alleged issues resolved administratively with the
potential that a final administrative decision could be at least partially binding
in this action.
CONCLUSION
The Court grants the non-opposed motion. This case is
stayed pending a final determination by the Labor Commission. At the hearing,
the Court will set a Status Conference on a date that works for all parties.  