 Case Number:  23STCV12007    Hearing Date:   May 31, 2024    Dept:  55 NATURE OF PROCEEDINGS:
Specially-Appearing Defendant Cosentino Group, S.A.’s Motion To Quash Service
Of Summons.
Specially-Appearing Defendant COSENTINO GROUP, S.A.
(“Cosentino”) moves to quash service of the Summons and Complaint based on lack
of personal jurisdiction. Plaintiffs JAIME BLANCO MACIEL and HELEN ORTIZ-BLANCO
(“Plaintiffs”) oppose the motion. 
On 3/11/24, the Court issued an order in which it
rejected Cosentino’s argument that it was not properly served and held that Cosentino
was validly served. With regards to Cosentino’s argument that the Court lacks general
or specific personal jurisdiction over it, the Court continued the motion to
5/31/24 so that Plaintiffs could take jurisdictional-related discovery and
ordered the parties to file supplemental briefs.
Plaintiffs’ supplemental brief merely references other
court decisions in support of valid service on Consentino. The Court already
decided this issue in favor of Plaintiffs and so this issue is moot. Plaintiffs
also request a further continuance of the hearing and the opportunity for further
briefing because they deposed Cosentino’s PMQ on 5/6/24 and have not yet
obtained the transcript to prepare a supplemental opposition. Plaintiffs give
no hint as to what the deposition testimony revealed that would establish the
facts of jurisdiction over Cosentino. Cosentino’s supplemental brief argues
that the deposition transcript will do nothing to establish personal jurisdiction
over Cosentino, a Spanish holding company in Spain. In support of its position,
Cosentino includes the declaration of its PMQ.
The question now before the Court is whether to allow
a continuance for a supplemental opposition and reply based on this record. As
a matter of calendar management, courts have discretion as to whether to
continue a motion and allow supplemental filings, or to decide a motion on the
documents already filed. Farber v. Bay View Terrace Homeowners Assn.
(2006) 141 Cal.App.4th 1007, 1015. 
The Court will hear arguments from counsel regarding
whether a further hearing continuance and briefing is warranted. As it stands
now, Plaintiffs have not remotely met their burden of establishing the facts of
jurisdiction by a preponderance of the evidence. Indeed, they have not
established any facts whatsoever regarding Cosentino’s minimum contacts with California.
They simply asked the Court to continue the hearing again and to submit more
briefing without any explanation as to why such orders are necessary. If
Plaintiffs believe the PMQ deposition testimony provides the basis for making a
colorable argument for exercising personal jurisdiction over Cosentino, they
should be prepared to give the Court an offer of proof at the hearing so that
the Court can decide whether to exercise its discretion to permit further
briefing. 