  Case Number:  23STCP04550    Hearing Date:   July 31, 2024    Dept:  82 The Boeing Company                                               Case No. 23STCP04550
 
v.
                                                                    Hearing:
July 31, 2024
                                                                        Location:
Stanley Mosk Courthouse
                                                                                    Department:
82                                     
Regional Water Quality                                      Judge:
Stephen I. Goorvitch
Control
Board, Los Angeles Region  
                                     
 
[Tentative] Order Granting in Part and
Denying in Part Motion to Augment
 
 
INTRODUCTION 
 
            The Boeing Company
(“Petitioner” or “Boeing”) filed a petition for writ of mandate under
California Water Code section 13330 and California Code of Civil Procedure
section 1094.5 challenging waste discharge requirements (the “WDRs”) for the
Santa Susana Field Laboratory (“SSFL”) set by the Regional Water Quality
Control Board, Los Angeles (“Respondent” or the “Regional Board”).  Now,
Petitioner moves to augment the administrative record.  Petitioner alleges that the Regional Board
improperly excluded some records at the administrative hearing.  Petitioner alleges that other records could
not have been submitted at the administrative hearing with reasonable
diligence.   
 
            The
hearing before the Regional Board was scheduled for September 28, 2023, and
Boeing had an opportunity to submit evidence and comments in advance of that
hearing.  The hearing did not finish that
day due to the number of commenters and the need to close the building by 7:00
p.m.  Therefore, the Regional Board
continued the hearing to October 17, 2023, merely to allow the remaining
commenters to address the Regional Board and to permit Petitioner’s
representative to respond with his remaining eight minutes of rebuttal argument.

 
            Less
than 48 hours before the further hearing, Petitioner sought to “dump”
approximately 141,000 pages of documents on the Regional Board—purportedly as
rebuttal evidence—without providing sufficient explanation of how specific
documents responded to specific arguments as required by the regulations.  The Chair denied the request to submit this
evidence because: (1) The Regional Board had no way to verify whether the
documents truly were rebuttal documents; (2) There was no good cause why Boeing
could not have submitted these documents as part of its initial submission; (3)
The late submission of voluminous new evidence on the eve of the continued
hearing was prejudicial; and (4) Boeing failed to comply with regulations
governing incorporation by reference when it referenced websites where
documents could be located.  Even in
Petitioner’s motion to augment the record, Petitioner’s counsel makes little effort
to narrow the documents to what is truly rebuttal or evidence that could not
have been introduced at the hearing.  Thus,
the court has undertaken this effort, based upon which the motion is granted in
part and denied in part. 
 
 
 
 
BACKGROUND AND PROCEDURAL HISTORY
 
The
court incorporates by reference its order of April 29, 2024, which provides a
summary of the SSFL and the WDRs at issue. 
In sum, the WDRs imposed five new monitoring/reporting and effluent
requirements on Petitioner: (1) New monitoring requirements for PCBs using
Method 1668c (“Condition One”); (2) New requirements for groundwater
infiltration studies at the Silvernale and R-1 Ponds (“Condition Two”); (3) New
monitoring requirements for constituents designated “Chemicals of Potential
Concern” in the Department of Toxic Substances’ (“DTSC”) “Standardized Risk
Assessment Methodology” for the SSFL Site (“Condition Three”); (4) New effluent
limits at Discharge Points 001 and 002 (“Condition Four”); and (5) New effluent
limits for aluminum (“Condition Five”).  The
court previously denied Petitioner’s motion to stay Condition One, Condition
Three, Condition Four, and Condition Five. 
The court denied Petitioner’s motion to stay Condition Two to the extent
Petitioner is required to design an infiltration study of two ponds and to
submit a work plan for the Board’s approval. 
However, the court stayed the implementation of the actual study until
the court resolves the underlying petition because: (1) the staff of the
Regional Board testified that additional studies of the ponds are not necessary
and could interfere with ongoing remediation efforts; and (2) Staying this
requirement would not harm the public because: (a) This case will not
significantly delay the study if the petition is denied; (b) Studies of the
ponds have already been completed; (c) The study of the Silvernale pond showed
“essentially zero” infiltration; and (d) The study of the R-1 pond showed “very
small” amounts of infiltration, equivalent to “clay soils.”
 
The
following procedural history is relevant to the instant motion:
 
In
2019, Petitioner applied to Regional Board to renew its previously issued WDRs.  In December 2021, the Regional Board
published the tentative WDRs for the SSFL site, solicited public comment, and
scheduled a public hearing for February 10, 2022.  The Regional Board held the public hearing in
February 2022 but elected to postpone a decision on the permit until it could
consider additional stormwater monitoring data from the next rainy season.  On July 21, 2023, the Regional Board
published revised tentative WDRs for notice and comment.  (See Minute Order, dated April 29, 2024, at 4;
and Corbett Decl. Exh. O.)  
 
            The Regional Board issued a notice
of hearing which set September 28, 2023, as the hearing date on the revised
tentative WDRs, and directed interested persons to submit written comments and
objections no later than August 21, 2023. 
(Nunez Decl. Exh. C.)  Petitioner
and other interested persons submitted comments on or before August 21,
2023.  (See Id. ¶ 9, Exh. H.)  On September 22, 2023, which was only four
business days before the hearing, the Regional Board issued revised tentative
WDRs and responses to comments.  (Corbett
Decl. Exh. Q, R.)  The Regional Board
denied Petitioner’s request to postpone the hearing by one month to give
Petitioner additional time to review and respond to the Regional Board’s
responses to comments and revised order. 
(O’Rourke Decl. Exh. H and I.)  
 
            At the hearing on September 28,
2023, the Regional Board granted Petitioner’s request to present 30 minutes of
oral testimony.  (Corbett Decl. Exh. S at
243.)  Steve Shestag, Petitioner’s Senior
Director for Environmental Sustainability and Site Executive for SSFL, presented
for 22 minutes and then reserved the remaining eight minutes of Petitioner’s
time for rebuttal.  (Id. at 243-259;
see also O’Rourke Decl. Exh. G at 1.) 
Due to the number of commenters, the Regional Board did not conclude the
hearing on September 28, 2023 (the “initial hearing”) before the building had
to be vacated at 7 p.m.  (Corbett Decl.
Exh. S at 343-344.)  The Regional continued
the hearing to October 19, 2023 (the “further hearing”).  The Regional Board closed the period for oral
comment except for those who had “signed up” but did not have an opportunity to
speak at the initial hearing.  (Id.
Exh. S at 343-349 
 
            On October 17, 2023, at
approximately 11:20 p.m., which was less than two days before the hearing, Regional
Board received a series of emails from Petitioner’s representative, Kim
O’Rourke, regarding “rebuttal evidence.” 
(See O’Rourke Decl. Exh. A-F.)  In
a letter attached to those emails, Shestag briefly summarized the issues for
which Petitioner sought to submit “rebuttal evidence.”  Shestag then informed Reginal Board that
Petitioner sought to add numerous documents (roughly, 100-150) into the
administrative record.  (Id. Exh.
G.)  Only four of the “rebuttal”
documents were attached to Petitioner’s emails. 
For the remainder of the documents, Petitioner included hyperlinks to
websites at which the documents could be located.  (Id. Exh. A-G.)  In his letter, Shestag also asserted that various
reports and studies that were “referenced” in Petitioner’s comments to the
Regional Board on August 21, 2023, “should be part of the public record in this
matter.”  Shestag provided, as Appendix
2, website addresses for those reports and studies from the comments of August
21, 2023.  (Id. Exh. G at 9-10 and
Appendix 2.)  In an email to Regional
Board, dated October 18, 2023, Public Employees for Environmental
Responsibility objected to Petitioner’s submission of voluminous “rebuttal”
evidence.  (Nunez Decl. Exh. E.)   
 
            At the start of the further hearing,
the Regional Board’s chairperson, Norma Camacho, considered and then denied Petitioner’s
request to submit rebuttal evidence.  The
Chair reasoned that:
 
            1.         Petitioner
seeks to introduce voluminous documents that purportedly rebut statements made
by the Board’s staff and/or the parties at the initial hearing.  “[H]owever, due to the last-minute nature of
Boeing’s submission, the Board has no way to verify these claims.”  (Corbett Decl. Exh. T at 44:9-10.)    
 
            2.         There
is no good cause why Boeing could not have submitted these documents as part of
the initial comment letter.  “[E]ven a
cursory glance at the type of documents Boeing is now seeking to add really
suggests that -- and with no explanation from Boeing, it does not really
explain why any of these documents could not have been submitted as part of
their original comment letter.”  (Id.
Exh. T at 44:11-17.)  Indeed, the Chair
recognized that “many related issues already [were] addressed in Boeing’s
comment letter . . . .”  (Id. Exh.
T at 44:17-18.)  The Chair concluded that
“even if the documents are properly characterized as rebuttal, Boeing does fail
to explain why and justify why it waited over three weeks until the eve of the
continued hearing to submit these documents.” 
(Id. Exh. T at 45:4-7.)  
 
            3.         The
late submission of evidence was prejudicial to the Board and other interested
persons.  The Chair recognized concerns
that “admission of such evidence would prejudice these parties, as they have --
have had no opportunity to examine and refute the reported new evidence.  Even if some of the evidence could be
properly characterized as rebuttal, I find that admission of Boening’s letter
and the 70 or so documents Boening seeks to include in the record would
prejudice the Board and its staff, and would also prejudice the designated
parties.”  (Id. Exh. T at
45:12-19.)    
 
            4.         Finally,
the Chair found that Petitioner failed to comply with the regulations governing
incorporation by reference when it purported to submit documents by referring
to websites where such documents could be located.  (Id. Exh. T at 46:3-47:4.)  The Chair recognized that “[g]iven the number
and size of these documents and the many issues in this proceeding, the Board
has no obligation to comb through these records to figure out what point Boeing
is trying to make.”  (Id. Exh. T
at 46:23-27:4; see also United States v. Dunkel, 927 F.2d 955, 956 (7th
Cir. 1991), recognizing that “[j]udges are not like pigs, hunting for truffles
buried in the briefs [or the record].”)  
 
            Accordingly, the Chair denied
Petitioner’s request to introduce approximately 141,000
pages of material that was submitted less than 48 hours before the further
hearing, the purpose of which was only to permit the remaining commenters to be
heard and to allow Petitioner to use its eight remaining minutes of
rebuttal.  Now, Petitioner asks this
court to augment the record with these documents.  
 
LEGAL STANDARD 
 
The petition is
brought pursuant to Water Code section 13330, which states in relevant part as
follows: “Section 1094.5 of the Code of Civil Procedure shall govern
proceedings for which petitions are filed pursuant to this section. For the
purposes of subdivision (c) of Section 1094.5 of the Code of Civil Procedure,
the court shall exercise its independent judgment on the evidence in any case
involving the judicial review of … a decision or order of a regional board for
which the state board denies review under Section 13320….”  (Water Code § 13330(e).)
 
“As
a general rule, a hearing on a writ of administrative mandamus is conducted
solely on the record of the proceeding before the administrative agency.”  (Richardson v. City and County of San
Francisco (2013) 214 Cal.App.4th 671, 702.)  However, “[w]here the court finds that there
is relevant evidence that, in the exercise of reasonable diligence, could not
have been produced or that was improperly excluded at the hearing before
respondent, it may enter judgment as provided in subdivision (f) remanding the
case to be reconsidered in the light of that evidence; or, in cases in which
the court is authorized by law to exercise its independent judgment on the
evidence, the court may admit the evidence at the hearing on the writ without
remanding the case.”  (Code Civ. Proc. §
1094.5(e).)  
 
“The stringent requirements set forth in section 1094.5, subdivision (e) require the moving party to identify what evidence is
sought to be discovered for purposes of adding it to the record; to establish
the relevancy of the evidence; and to show that either (a) any such relevant,
additional evidence was improperly excluded at the administrative hearing, or
(b) it could not have been produced at the hearing with the exercise of
reasonable diligence.  (Code Civ. Proc. § 1094.5, subd. (e).) If the moving party fails to make the required showing, it
is an abuse of the court's discretion to [augment the record].”  (Pomona
Valley Hospital Medical Center v. Sup. Ct. (1997) 55 Cal.App.4th 93, 102.)
 
DISCUSSION 
 
A.             
The Regional Board had Discretion to Exclude
Evidence
 
Petitioner contends that Camacho’s decision to exclude the evidence
submitted on October 17, 2023, violated California Code of Regulations, Title
23, section 684.4(f).  (Motion to Augment
the Administrative Record (“Mot.”) 14 and 19-24.)  Petitioner requests that the court “correct
the LA Regional Board’s error and admit the improperly excluded Rebuttal
Evidence under section 1094.5(e) as part of the Court’s independent review and
weighing of the evidence.”  (Id. at
24.)
 
For purposes of section 1094.5(e), Respondent does not dispute the
relevance of the proffered evidence. 
(Opposition (“Oppo.”) 10, fn. 3.) 
Rather, Respondent contends that the Regional Board properly excluded Petitioner’s
evidence because: (1) The evidence was not properly characterized as “rebuttal;”
(2) Admitting Petitioner’s voluminous evidence at the further hearing would
have been prejudicial to the opposing parties and Regional Board; and (3) The Regional
Board has discretion to place reasonable limits on rebuttal evidence.  (Id. at 12-14.)  
 
Pursuant to Water Code section 185, the State Water Resources Control
Board “shall adopt rules for the conduct of its affairs ….”  (Water Code § 185.)  The State Board adopted California Code of Regulations,
title 23, section 648, which states in pertinent part that “except as otherwise
provided, all adjudicative proceedings before the State Board, the Regional
Boards, or hearing officers or panels appointed by any of those Boards shall be
governed by these regulations, chapter 4.5 of the Administrative Procedure Act (commencing
with section 11400
of the Government Code)….”  (23 Cal. Code Regs. § 648.)    
 
Section 11425.10(a)(1) of the Administrative Procedure Act (the “APA”)
states “[t]he agency shall give the person to which the agency action is
directed notice and an opportunity to be heard, including the opportunity to
present and rebut evidence.”  The Law
Revision Commission Comments to section 11425.10(a)(1) state: “Subdivision
(a)(1), providing a person the opportunity to present and rebut evidence, is
subject to reasonable control and limitation by the agency conducting the
hearing, including the manner of presentation of evidence, whether oral,
written, or electronic, limitation on lengthy or repetitious testimony or other
evidence, and other controls or limitations appropriate to the character of the
hearing.”  
 
Similarly, Board regulation section 684.4(a) states that “[i]t is the
policy of the State and Regional Boards to discourage the introduction of surprise
testimony and exhibits.”  In addition, “[w]here
any of the provisions of this section have not been complied with, the
presiding officer may refuse to admit the proposed testimony or the proposed
exhibit into evidence, and shall refuse to do so where there is a showing of
prejudice to any party or the Board.” 
(23 Cal. Code Regs. § 648.4(e).)
 
Petitioner relies on section 684.4(f), which states: “Rebuttal testimony
generally will not be required to be submitted in writing, nor will rebuttal
testimony and exhibits be required to be submitted prior to the start of the
hearing.”  Petitioner also cites Malaga
County Water District v. Central Valley Regional Water Quality Control Board (2020)
418 Cal.App.5th 418, 439-440, which held that a regional board’s hearing
procedural rule requiring parties to submit rebuttal evidence prior to the
start of the proceedings was an “underground regulation” that contradicted
section 684.4(f).  Petitioner’s reliance
on Malaga is misplaced, however, because the Regional Board did not rely
on any informal hearing procedure to exclude Petitioner’s “rebuttal
evidence.”  Malaga did not
consider the circumstances in which a regional board has discretion to exclude
voluminous, technical evidence that is submitted as rebuttal shortly before the
final hearing on an WDR.  “An opinion
is not authority for propositions not considered.”  (People v. Knoller (2007) 41 Cal.4th
139, 154-55, citation omitted.)  
 
Exercising its independent judgment on the question of statutory
construction, the court interprets sections 684.4 and 11425.10(a)(1) to afford
the Regional Board discretion to determine whether: (1) The evidence submitted
on October 17, 2023, was truly “rebuttal” evidence, and (2)  The late submission of this evidence was
prejudicial to any opposing parties or the Regional Board.  Accordingly, the Chair did not err in
considering those two issues when deciding whether to admit Petitioner’s
evidence submitted on October 17, 2023. 
Furthermore, in considering the question of prejudice, Regional Board necessarily
had discretion to weigh factors such as (1) the voluminous nature of the
evidence; (2) the timing of its submission; (3) whether Petitioner sufficiently
identified the evidence upon which its was relying and explained how it was
“rebuttal”; and (4) whether the evidence was “surprise testimony and exhibits”
prohibited by section 684.4(a) of the regulations.  In its briefing, Petitioner has not developed
a persuasive interpretation of sections 684.4 and 11425.10(a)(1) under which
Regional Board lacks discretion to consider such factors.  
 
Applying this interpretation of section 684.4, the court will consider
whether the Regional Board improperly excluded any item of evidence submitted
by Petitioner on October 17, 2023.  The
court grants the motion to augment only as to those items that are relevant and
were improperly excluded by Regional Board. 
(Code Civ. Proc. § 1094.5(e).)  
 
            B.        Exhibits 1 to 39, 56 and 57, and 61 –
DENIED 
 
Petitioner contends that Exhibits 1 to 39, 56 and 57, and 61 are
relevant to its arguments concerning Condition Three (SRAM Constituents).   (Mot. 22.) 
Petitioner contends that Condition Three was added in the revised
tentative WDRs released by Regional Board on September 22, 2023, and that, in
response, “Boeing
then proffered as rebuttal the many years of extensive soil and groundwater
sampling investigation reports submitted to DTSC, and publicly available on
DTSC’s website, which are directly relevant to demonstrating the arbitrariness
of this new requirement.”  (Mot.
22:13-17, citing Corbett Decl. Exh. 1-39, 56, 61.)  For similar reasons, Petitioner contends that
exhibits 2-6, 19-21 and exhibits 56-57 are relevant rebuttal evidence for
Condition Four (Outfalls 1 and 2) and Condition Five (Aluminum),
respectively.  (Mot. 22-23.)  These exhibits comprise thousands of pages of
data reports and other technical evidence. 
Petitioner has not identified the relevant portions of these voluminous
records or provided any cogent discussion of this evidence.  
 
Petitioner does
not prove that these exhibits truly are rebuttal evidence.  Further, the Regional Board reasonably found
that the evidence was prejudicial and improper “surprise exhibits.”  Therefore, Exhibits
1 to 39, 56 and 57, and 61 were properly excluded.  
 
Petitioner contends that exhibits 8 and 39 are relevant to its arguments
concerning Condition Two (Groundwater Infiltration Studies).  (Mot. 21-22.) 
Petitioner contends that Condition Two was not added until late in the
approval process and that, in response to comments at the September 28 hearing,
“Boeing prepared and submitted its Rebuttal Evidence on this issue, including
environmental investigation reports related to the infiltration issue (id. Ex.
8, 39).”  (Mot. 22:2-4.)  Exhibit 8 is a RCRA Facility Investigation
Data Summary and Findings Report dated February 2020 and that consists of 1,573
pages of data and analysis.  Exhibit 39
is a “final” investigation report dated October 2021 and consisting of 211
pages.  In his letter of October 17, 2023,
Shestag did not cite any specific pages or data from Exhibits 8 and 39 or
explain how these reports would rebut evidence presented at earlier hearings
before Regional Board.  (O’Rourke Decl.
Exh. G at 2.)  In its briefing before this
court, Petitioner also does not cite or identify the specific portions of Exhibits
8 and 39 that it contends are relevant.  Therefore,
Petitioner does not demonstrate that the Regional Board improperly exclude
Exhibits 8 and 39 in particular.  
 
            C.        Exhibits 40 to 49 – DENIED 
 
Petitioner contends that Exhibits 40 to 49 are relevant to Petitioner’s
challenge to Condition One (PCB Method 1668C). 
(Mot. 21.)  Petitioner contends
that the Regional
Board “initially did not require PCB monitoring using Method 1668C, but only
acknowledged this proposed new requirement in the RTC, published on September
22, four business days before the September 28 hearing.”  Petitioner also contends that an EPA employee
gave “potentially misleading” statements about Method 1668C at the September 28
hearing.  (Mot. 21.)  Respondent counters that Petitioner had been
“on notice” from December 2021 that the Regional Board was considering adding
PCB monitoring requirements using Method 1668C. 
(Oppo. 10.)  
 
Exhibits 40 to 49
are several stormwater monitoring reports from 2015 to 2023 and two stormwater
expert panel reports from 2010. 
Petitioner asserts that the reports “demonstrate[] why use of Method
1668C at SSFL is unnecessary; namely, because PCBs have never been detected in
stormwater at SSFL.”  (Mot.
21:15-17.)  In total, these exhibits
consist of nearly 20,000 pages of technical evidence.  In his letter of October 17, 2023, Shestag
did not identify any specific pages that are relevant to Petitioner’s contentions
regarding Method 1668C.  (See O’Rourke
Decl. Exh. G at 1-2.)  Nor did Shestag
explain how any specific information from Exhibits 40 to 49 “rebuts” direct
evidence presented to the Regional Board. 

 
Petitioner
acknowledges that “[m]any of these documents are voluminous data reports, and
Boeing does not anticipate asking the Court to review them in full.”  Petitioner states that it “seeks addition of
the data reports to the record primarily so that it may cite portions of the
reports, or present the data in summary format during the hearing pursuant to
Evidence Code § 1523(d).”  (Mot. 2, fn.
1.)  In so doing, Petitioner effectively
concedes that the data reports submitted to Regional Board were too voluminous
for the Regional Board or opposing parties to review prior to the further
hearing.  Petitioner did not “present the
data in summary format” to the Regional Board. 
Finally, as Petitioner acknowledges, Shestag gave rebuttal testimony
that “PCBs have never been detected in Santa Susana stormwater
discharges.”  (Mot. 21:16-17, citing
Corbett Decl. Exh. T at 58.)  Shestag
could have, with reasonable diligence, identified specific portions of Exhibits
40 to 49 to support this testimony in his letter of October 17, 2023, or in the
rebuttal testimony.   
 
Petitioner does
not prove that these exhibits truly are rebuttal evidence.  Further, the Regional Board reasonably found
that the evidence was prejudicial and improper “surprise exhibits.”  Therefore, Exhibits 40 to 49 were properly
excluded.
 
            D.        Exhibits 50 to 52 – GRANTED  
 
These written statements from the EPA are relevant to rebut testimony of
an EPA employee from the September 28 hearing regarding Method 1668C.  (See Corbett Decl. Exh. S at 284-285.)  There was no prejudice to the Regional Board
or any opposing parties from admission of this evidence.  The written statements regarding Method 1668C
are included on about 5 pages of Exhibits 50 to 52 that were specifically
referenced in Shestag’s letter of October 17, 2023.  (O’Rourke Decl. Exh. G at 1-2.)  Even if Petitioner did not comply with the
incorporation rules, the written statements were easily accessible by using the
weblinks provided in Shestag’s letter. 
Accordingly, Regional Board improperly excluded this relevant
evidence.  
 
E.         Exhibits 53 to 55 –
DENIED 
 
Petitioner does not discuss these exhibits in its moving papers and
provides no analysis of these voluminous, “technical reports” in reply.  (Reply 12:4)  
In his letter of October 17, 2023, Shestag refers to these exhibits as
rebuttal evidence for Outfalls 1 and 2, but he does not identify any specific
portions that are relevant to conditions being challenged by Petitioner.  (O’Rourke Decl. Exh. G at 2-3.)  For the same reasons discussed above, Petitioner
does not show that Regional Board improperly excluded these exhibits.  
 
            F.         Exhibits 58 to 60 – GRANTED
 
Exhibits 58 to 60 are three quarterly stormwater monitoring reports for
the third and fourth quarters of 2023, and the first quarter of 2024.  Each report is more than 800 pages in length.  These reports include stormwater monitoring
data from the most recent “rainy season” of 2023-2024.  Petitioner contends: “These reports provide
data on the recent stormwater sampling and analysis for constituents addressed
in the Contested Conditions at SSFL, including PCBs and aluminum, and thus they
are relevant to Boeing’s arguments that those Contested Conditions are not
supported by the weight of the evidence.” 
(Mot. 26:1-4.)  
 
Petitioner could not, with reasonable diligence, have submitted these
reports in the administrative proceedings and Respondent acknowledges that the
reports are relevant to this writ action. 
(Oppo. 10, fn. 3.)  For the
reasons discussed above as to Exhibit K, Fort Mojave does not preclude
admission of these reports under Code of Civil Procedure section
1094.5(e).  Respondent also does not
identify any reason that it would be prejudiced, in its merits briefing, if
these three recent stormwater monitoring reports were included in the
record.  Respondent has acknowledged the
potential benefits of “additional stormwater monitoring data” from the most
recent rainy season.  (Oppo. 6:2-3; see
also Nunez Decl. Exh. F at 273-278.) 
Therefore, the motion is granted with respect to these exhibits.  
 
            G.        Documents Incorporated by Reference 
 
Respondent also contends that the Regional Board properly excluded
documents because Petitioner did not comply with the applicable regulations
governing evidence by reference.  (Oppo.
at 12-13, citing 23 Cal. Code Regs. § 684.3.) 
Section 684.3 provides in full: 
 
Public records of the
Board that are relevant to the subject of the hearing, and books, reports, and
other evidence that have been prepared and published by a public agency, if
otherwise admissible, may in the discretion of the Board be received in evidence
as exhibits by reference without the necessity of supplying copies to the Board
and other parties, provided the original or a copy is in the possession
of the Board and the specific file folder or other exact location
where it can be found is identified. The party offering an exhibit by reference
shall designate the particular portions on which the party relies. Each
exhibit shall be appropriately identified and designated in the record as an
exhibit of the party offering the exhibit or an exhibit of Board staff.
 
(23 Cal. Code Regs. § 684.3, emphasis added.)  In its motion to augment and reply, Petitioner
has not squarely addressed the issue of incorporation by reference.  Neither the motion nor reply cites or
discusses section 684.3.  (See Sehulster Tunnels/Pre-Con v. Traylor
Brothers, Inc. (2003) 111 Cal.App.4th 1328, 1345, fn. 16 [failure to
address point is “equivalent to a concession”].)  
 
For all exhibits
not attached to the emails of October 17, 2023, the court concludes that Petitioner’s
submissions did not comply with section 684.3. 
Petitioner did not identify where the unattached documents could be
found in Regional Board’s files and did not “designate the particular portions
on which” Petitioner was relying. 
Therefore, the motion is denied with respect to these exhibits except
where otherwise noted, e.g., Exhibits 50 to 52.  
 
            H.        O’Rourke Declaration, Exhibits A to F –
DENIED 
 
These emails merely
transmit certain attachments and do not, in themselves, include any relevant,
substantive argument or information. 
Accordingly, augmentation of the emails is denied.  
 
I.          O’Rourke Declaration, Exhibit G –
DENIED 
 
Exhibit G is Shestag’s letter to the Regional Board dated October 17,
2023, in which he “identifies” the “topics for which rebuttal testimony will be
offered and rebuttal evidence is hereby submitted.”  (O’Rourke Decl. Exh. T at 1.)  Some of the “rebuttal evidence” was
identified in the letter itself.  In
addition, attached to the letter are two appendices that identify the discharge
monitoring reports and RCRA Facility Investigation Reports that Petitioner
offered as evidence.  The motion is
denied with respect to Exhibit G for the reasons discussed except as otherwise
noted.    
 
            J.         O’Rourke Decl., Exhibits H and I –
GRANTED 
 
These letters are relevant procedural history and show Reigonal Board’s
denial of Petitioner’s request for a continuance of the initial hearing.  The letters are not voluminous and do not
include any technical evidence.  There is
no prejudice from their inclusion in the record, so the motion is granted with
respect to these exhibits. 
 
K.        O’Rourke Decl., Exhibit J
– GRANTED
 
Exhibit J is a report on the subject of “SSFL Pond Infiltration” dated
October 18, 2023, and prepared by Geosyntec Consultants for the SSFL Surface
Water Expert Panel.  In his letter dated
October 17, 2023, Shestag advised Regional Board that “the SSFL Stormwater
Expert Panel is finalizing a report addressing infiltration from the unlined
ponds [and] Boeing anticipates the report will be finalized prior to the
hearing and Boeing will submit it to the Board as rebuttal evidence at that
time.”  (O’Rourke Decl. Exh. G at
2.)  In her declaration, O’Rourke states
that the “report was emailed to the LA Regional Board the next day, on October
18, 2023.”  (Id. at ¶ 6.)
 
Board Chair Camacho did not specifically discuss this report in the
ruling to exclude certain evidence.  (See
Crobett Decl. Exh. T at 42-43.)  Rather,
the ruling pertained to the letter and exhibits submitted on October 17, 2023,
at approximately 11:00 pm.  (Ibid.)  Thus, it appears that the Regional Board did
not exclude Exhibit J from the administrative record.
 
In the alternative, if the Regional Board excluded Exhibit J, the court
concludes that this was an abuse of discretion. 
“As
required by the Regional Board, Petitioner has funded the services of a Surface
Water Expert Panel (the ‘Expert Panel’) to support and advise the Regional
Board, and to make recommendations to Petitioner to improve surface water
quality at SSFL.”  (Minute Order dated
4/29/24 at 3.)   The report, which was prepared by a consultant at the request of the
Expert Panel, is only six pages in length and is relevant to Condition Two and
comments made at the initial hearing regarding the need for a groundwater
infiltration study.  (See Corbett Decl.
Exh. S at 269-270 and 277.)  Respondent
does not dispute the relevance of this report. 
(Oppo. 10, fn. 3.)  Because the
report was prepared by an Expert Panel charged with advising the Regional
Board, Respondent does not show that it is improper “surprise” evidence or that
there is any prejudice to Regional Board. 
Further, given the length of the report, there was no prejudice to
opposing parties from its submission on October 18, 2023.  Finally, the Regional Board could have
continued the hearing if any opposing parties, or the Board itself, needed more
time to consider this report.  Therefore,
the motion is granted with respect to this report.    
 
            L.         O’Rourke Declaration, Exhibit K –
GRANTED 
 
Exhibit K is the “Site-Wide Stormwater Annual Report” for the 2022/23
reporting year prepared by the Expert Panel and issued on October 31, 2023, after
the further hearing (on October 19, 2023) before the Regional
Board.  (O’Rourke Decl. ¶ 7.)  Petitioner could not, with reasonable
diligence, have submitted this evidence in advance of the further hearing.  Further, based on the court’s independent
review of the report, the court agrees with Petitioner that the report is
relevant because it “was
prepared by the LA Regional Board’s independent panel of stormwater experts who
are charged with analyzing stormwater data for SSFL and reporting their
analysis to the LA Regional Board” and because the Expert Panel gave their
expert opinions on factual issues related to conditions in the WDR challenged
by Petitioner.  (Mot. 25:9-22.)  
 
Respondent concedes the relevance of this report to this writ
action.  (Oppo. 10, fn. 3.)  Respondent also does not dispute that, with
the exercise of reasonable diligence, Petitioner could not have submitted it
during the administrative proceedings.  Respondent’s
reliance on Fort Mojave Indian Tribe v. Department of Health Services (1995)
38 Cal.App.4th 1574, and related cases, is not persuasive.  Unlike the “Wilshire Report” at issue in Fort
Mojave, the Expert Panel’s October 2023 Annual Report was not a
“restatement and elaboration” of the Panel’s opinions on a specific issue.  Nor was the 2023 Annual Report prepared for
the purposes of contradicting or undermining the Regional Board’s
decision.  Rather, “this 2022/23 Annual
Report summarizes the data collected, evaluations performed, and the [Expert
Panel’s] findings and recommendations for the 2022/23 reporting year (July 1,
2022 to June 30, 2023).”  (O’Rourke Decl.
Exh. K at 1.)  As stated by Petitioner,
“[t]he 2023 Annual Report is only the latest in a long line of annual reports
by the Expert Panel to the Board dating back to 2015.”  (Reply 7:16-17.)  Respondent has not disputed that the reports
of the Expert Panel are “required” by Regional Board pursuant to terms and
conditions in the WDRs.  (See Mot.
17:21-23.)  Because it represents the
entire Expert Panel’s most recent, independent opinion, based on the most
recent data, the 2023 Annual Report is not cumulative of other evidence in the
record, including the rebuttal testimony of Dr. Stenstrom or the Panel’s
October 18 report.  For these same
reasons, the 2023 Annual Report is properly viewed as “new evidence” of
“emergent facts.”  (See Fort Mojave,
supra, 38 Cal.App.4th at 1595.)
 
M.       Corbett Declaration,
Exhibit U – GRANTED 
 
Exhibit
U to the Corbett Declaration is the declaration of hydrogeologist Sylvan Long,
which was submitted in this action on March 8, 2024, in support of Petitioner’s
application for a stay.   Exhibit U is
relevant to Petitioner’s contentions regarding Condition One and the
reliability of Method 1668C for monitoring PCBs in stormwater.  (See Mot. 26.)  
 
Petitioner
contends that “Boeing had no opportunity to present this evidence during the
underlying proceeding” because “Boeing first learned that the LA Regional Board
may require Boeing to analyze for PCBs using Method 1668C upon reviewing the
September 22, 2023 Response to Comments and hearing the testimony at the
September 28 hearing.”  (Mot. 26:12-15.)  Respondent seems to acknowledge that it did
not highlight its change from an “or” to an “and,” which resulted in the additional
requirement.  (See Oppo. 10, fn. 4.)  Therefore, the court grants the motion with
respect to Exhibit U, finding that Petitioner did not have sufficient notice in
advance of the hearing to introduce this exhibit.  
 


 
            N.        The Remedy 
 
“[I]n cases in which the court is
authorized by law to exercise its independent judgment on the evidence, the
court may admit the evidence at the hearing on the writ without remanding the
case.”  (Code Civ. Proc. § 1094.5(e).)  Alternatively, the court may remand the case to
the agency for reconsideration of the case in light of the new evidence.  (Toyota of Visalia, Inc. v. New Motor
Vehicle Bd. (1987) 188 Cal.App.3d 872, 882.)
 
The court has no tentative order on
this issue.    
  
CONCLUSION AND ORDER
 
            Based
upon the foregoing, the court orders as follows:
 
            1.         The motion is granted in part and
denied in part as discussed in this order.
 
            2.         The parties shall amend the
administrative record accordingly.
 
            3.         Petitioner’s counsel shall provide
notice and file proof of service with the court.
 
 
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
 
Dated: July 31, 2024                                                  ___________________________
                                                                                    Stephen
I. Goorvitch
                                                                                    Superior
Court Judge 
 