 Case Number:  BS174007    Hearing Date:   July 31, 2024    Dept:  82 Peter
Heffner v. California Commission on Teacher Credentialing
Case
No. BS174007
[Tentative]
Order Denying Motion to Enforce Writ of Administrative Mandate
 
            Peter Heffner
(“Petitioner”) filed this petition for a writ of administrative mandate against
the California Commission on Teacher Credentialing (the “Commission” or
“Respondent”). In 2018, the Commission revoked Petitioner’s teaching credential
but stayed the revocation.  The
Commission placed Petitioner on probation for five years with a 90-day actual
suspension.  Petitioner sought to restore
his teaching credential free of these restrictions. 
 
On
July 6, 2020, the court (Beckloff, J.) granted Petitioner’s writ of mandate.  The Commission found that Petitioner had engaged
in “unprofessional conduct.”  (Court’s
Order Granting Petition for Writ of Mandate, dated July 6, 2020, at 5, 6.)  The Commission found that Petitioner’s
conduct “does not constitute unfitness to teach.”  (Id. at 6.)  Judge Beckloff held that the Commission’s
finding of “unprofessional conduct”—without a finding that Petitioner was unfit
to teach—precluded the Commission’s disciplinary action against
Petitioner.  (Ibid.)  Accordingly, on August 31, 2021, Judge
Beckloff issued an order setting aside the Commission’s decision.  
 
The
writ of mandate was issued on June 8, 2022. 
The writ ordered the Commission to set aside the original decision.  The Commission did so.  (See Return on Writ of Mandate, dated
September 7, 2022, at 1.)  The Commission
also reconsidered its decision in light of Judge Beckloff’s opinion and
judgment, per Code of Civil Procedure section 1094.5(f), and issued a new order
finding:
 
“Analysis of the
totality of the Morrison criteria, set forth above, indicates that [Petitioner’s]
misconduct is related to his fitness to teach. 
Respondent has demonstrated that he requires further instruction on
professional boundaries, in respect to inappropriately invading the privacy of students,
and the duties and requirements of reporting suspicion of child abuse.”
 
(Id.,
Exh. A, at 9.)  The Commission imposed
the same discipline in an order dated August 11, 2022.  (Id., Exh. A, at 10.)   
 
            On October 6, 2022, Petitioner filed
an “Objection to Return on Writ of Mandate.” 
However, Petitioner did not file an ex parte application or noticed
motion.  Accordingly, there is no reason
Judge Beckloff would have seen this objection. 
The case was closed; the objection was filed over two years after Judge
Beckloff ruled on the writ; and the objection was filed one month after the
return was filed.  Petitioner’s counsel
did not file anything for another 18 months, and Judge Beckloff eventually retired.    
 
On
April 9, 2024, Petitioner filed a motion to enforce the writ of mandate.  The court (Goorvitch, J.) denied the motion because
it was not served on Respondent’s counsel. 
(See Court’s Minute Order, dated April 24, 2024.)  Then, on June 20, 2024, Petitioner filed a “Notice
of Hearing on Motion to Enforce Writ of Administrative Mandate.”  The
notice specified a hearing date of July 31, 2024, and then stated: “This Motion
will be based on the Motion and Memorandum of Points and Authorities to be
filed forthwith pursuant to the Court’s local department rules within three (3)
court days of this Notice, the judgment entered on August 30, 2021, and the
records and files in this action.”  (Petitioner’s
Notice of Motion, p. 2.)  
 
            Petitioner
did not file a memorandum of points and authorities at any time after June 20,
2024, in support of the motion.  Nor did
Petitioner specify that the second motion would be based on the memorandum
filed with the April 9, 2024, motion.  Accordingly,
the motion is procedurally defective; Respondent has not received proper notice.  (See Cal. Rules of Court, Rule 3.1113(a) [“The court may
construe the absence of a memorandum as an admission that the motion … is not
meritorious and cause for its denial ….”]; see also Quantum Cooking
Concepts, Inc. v. LV Associates, Inc. (2011) 197 Cal.App.4th 927, 934 [Cal.
Rules of Court, Rule 3.1113 “rests on a policy-based allocation of resources,
preventing the trial court from being cast as a tacit advocate for the moving
party’s theories”].)  
 
            Based
upon the foregoing, Petitioner’s motion is denied.  The court’s clerk shall provide notice.  
 