 Case Number:  24STCP02093    Hearing Date:   July 31, 2024    Dept:  82 Ronsel-Lamond:
Mitchell v. County of Los Angeles (CSSD)
Case No.
24STCP02093
[Tentative] Order
Dismissing Case without Prejudice
 
            The court
posts this tentative order on Monday, July 29, 2024, at 11:15 a.m. which is two
days before the hearing on July 31, 2024, at 1:30 p.m.  The court provides notice: If Petitioner does
not appear, either remotely or in-person, he shall waive the right to be heard and
shall submit to entry of this order.  
 
            Petitioner
“Ronsel-Lamond: Mitchell,” a self-represented litigant, filed two different
petitions seeking a writ of mandate and other relief.  Petitioner states that he is “fully
Sovereign” and “not a U.S. citizen, not a signatory, nor a party to the social
compact (Constitution) of the State of California Status and said Constitution
does not operate upon the Undersigned . . . .” 
Petitioner signed one of the petitions as “secured party creditor, sui
juris, sovereign ambassador (2 Corinthians 5:20) by jure divino authorized representative
for and in behalf of Ronsel Lamond Mitchell.” 
Petitioner uses the trademark symbol in front of his name and the
copyright symbol after his name.     
 
            Petitioner
appears to challenge court-ordered child support under Title IV-D of the Social
Security Act on the basis that he is a sovereign citizen and never “contracted”
with the government.  Petitioner alleges:
“On March 21, 1994 an adhesion contract that never had standing to bring a
complaint against Ronsel Mitchell, it is all part of the child support scheme
to recoup a Title IV-A loan not belonging to Ronsel Mitchell, nor is it for the
child or mother.”  Petitioner appears to
challenge a decision by the Honorable Firdaus F. Dordi, who is the Assistant
Supervising Judge of the Family Court:
 
            “I do not know what to do because
the Honorable Firdaus F. Dordi, the County of Los Angeles CSSD and IV-D
Contractors ignored the Affidavits and the liberty to contract presented under
Item #05181966-RLM-LND.  This freedom of
contract was also alluded to as a property right . . . .  This right was struck down or arbitrarily
interfered with by the Honorable Firdaus F. Dordi, there is a substantial
impairment of liberty in the long-established constitutional sense so I ask for
the Administrative remedy not considered as legal?’  I seek to review of the IV-D and the
Honorable Firdaus F. Dordi lower courts decision and request a writ of
Certiorari.  Request for compensation
damages against the Honorable Firdaus F. Dordi of the IV-D Contractors . . . .”
 
The petitions
contain similar references, as well as references to the Uniform Commercial
Code.  
 
            Based upon the foregoing, the
court noticed: (1) A motion for judgment on the pleadings under Code of Civil
Procedure section 438(b)(2); and (2) An order to show cause why this case
should not be dismissed under Huang v. Hanks (2018) 23 Cal.App.5th 179,
181- 182.  The court provided written
notice on July 5, 2024, and Petitioner filed a response on July 16, 2024.  The court has reviewed and considered the
response.  
 
            On its face, Petitioners’ petitions
lack merit, as one need not “contract” with the government in order to be
subject to child support orders.  Regardless,
this court does not have jurisdiction to review the orders of another Superior
Court Judge; such matters must be raised with the District Court of Appeal.  This court does not have authority to review
child support orders.  Therefore, the
court orders as follows:
 
            1.         The
court grants its own motion for judgment on the pleadings.
 
            2.         The
court grants its own order to show cause why this case should not be dismissed
under Huang v. Hanks (2018) 23 Cal.App.5th 179, 181- 182. 
 
            3.         The
court dismisses this case without prejudice.
 
            4.         The
court’s clerk shall serve a copy of this order upon Petitioner.  Further notice is not required.   
 