  Case Number:  22STCV41098    Hearing Date:   December 8, 2023    Dept:  76 Pursuant to California Rule of Court
3.1308(a)(1), the Court does not desire oral argument on the motion addressed
herein.  Counsel must contact the staff
in Department 76 to inform the Court whether they wish to submit on the
tentative, or to argue the matter.  As
required by Rule 3.1308(a), any party seeking oral argument must notify ALL
OTHER PARTIES and the staff of Department 76 of their intent to appear and
argue. 
Notice to Department 76 may be sent by email to
smcdept76@lacourt.org or telephonically at 213-830-0776. 
Per Rule of Court 3.1308, if notice of intention
to appear is not given, the Court may adopt the tentative ruling as the final
ruling.            Plaintiff
alleges that a grant deed was forged conveying Plaintiff’s properties, which
was then encumbered, all without Plaintiff’s authorization. Plaintiff brings a
quiet title action. 
            Defendants
Wilshire Quinn Income Fund REIT, LLC and Wilshire Quinn Income Fund, LLC move
for the issuance of letters rogatory.
TENTATIVE RULING
Defendants
Wilshire Quinn Income Fund REIT, LLC and Wilshire Quinn Income Fund, LLC’s motion
for issuance of letters rogatory is GRANTED.
ANALYSIS
Motion For
Issuance of Letters Rogatory
Defendants Wilshire Quinn Income
Fund REIT, LLC and Wilshire Quinn Income Fund, LLC (collectively “Defendants”
or “Wilshire Entities”) Defendants, through their counsel, for the purpose of
deposing and acquiring records and documents from April 
Ferguson, in Calgary, Alberta, Canada, will request that the
Court: (1) grant Defendants’ Motion for Issuance of Letters Rogatory; and (2)
issue the Letters Rogatory, submitted herewith, for April Ferguson.  
 
The motion is made on the following
grounds: (1) the testimony, records and documents sought are highly relevant to
these proceedings; (2) testimony, records and documents cannot be obtained
without the assistance of the Canadian court; and (3) this evidence is
essential for Defendants to obtain this evidence to defend this case.
 
 
            Civ. Proc.
Code, § 2027.010 provides:
 
(a) Any party may obtain discovery by
taking an oral deposition, as described in Section 2025.010, in a foreign
nation. Except as modified in this section, the procedures for taking oral
depositions in California set forth in Chapter 9 (commencing with Section
2025.010) apply to an oral deposition taken in a foreign nation.
. . .
 
(c) If a deponent is not a party to the
action or an officer, director, managing agent or employee of a party, a party
serving a deposition notice under this section shall use any process and
procedures required and available under the laws of the foreign nation where
the deposition is to be taken to compel the deponent to attend and to testify,
as well as to produce any document or tangible thing for inspection, copying,
and any related activity.
 
(d) A deposition taken under this section
shall be conducted under the supervision of any of the following:
 
 (1) A person who is authorized to
administer oaths or their equivalent by the laws of the United States or of the
foreign nation, and who is not otherwise disqualified under Section 2025.320
and subdivisions (b) to (f), inclusive, of Section 2025.340.
 
 (2) A person or officer appointed
by commission or under letters rogatory.
 
 (3) Any person agreed to by all the
parties.
 
(e) On motion of the party seeking to
take an oral deposition in a foreign nation, the court in which the action
is pending shall issue a commission, letters rogatory, or a letter of request,
if it determines that one is necessary or convenient. The commission,
letters rogatory, or letter of request may include any terms and directions
that are just and appropriate. The deposition officer may be designated by name
or by descriptive title in the deposition notice and in the commission. Letters
rogatory or a letter of request may be addressed: "To the Appropriate
Judicial Authority in [name of foreign nation]."
    (Bold emphasis
added.)
            Defendants
seek to depose April Ferguson in Calgary, Alberta, Canada as she was involved
in the Loan Transaction. Defendants believe that Ms. Ferguson provided a number
of fake, forged, and falsified documents during the loan application process,
including the actual loan application, signed leases with alleged tenants in
the buildings used to secure the loan, and a fake tax return. (Heidarzadeh
Decl. at ¶6.) Defendants further believe that Ms. Ferguson forwarded fake
emails communications to the loan officer from the person identifying as Ms.
Beck and her properties manager. Heidarzadeh 
Decl. at ¶7.) Finally, Defendants believe that Ms. Ferguson
was paid a 2% loan origination fee from the Beck loan proceeds totaling
$114,000. (Heidarzadeh Decl. at ¶8) Defendants believe that Ms. Ferguson is a
Canadian resident and currently resides in Calgary, Alberta, Canada.
(Heidarzadeh Decl. at ¶9.)
 
            The Court
finds that issuance of letters rogatory is necessary in order for Defendants to
obtain evidence about the person who may be responsible for the underlying
forgeries of which Plaintiff complains. 
 
            The
issuance would be in accordance with the laws of Canada. 
Order for examination of witness in Canada
46 (1) If, on an application for that purpose, it is made
to appear to any court or judge that any court or tribunal outside Canada,
before which any civil, commercial or criminal matter is pending, is desirous
of obtaining the testimony in relation to that matter of a party or witness
within the jurisdiction of the first mentioned court, of the court to which the
judge belongs or of the judge, the court or judge may, in its or their
discretion, order the examination on oath on interrogatories, or otherwise,
before any person or persons named in the order, of that party or witness
accordingly, and by the same or any subsequent order may command the attendance
of that party or witness for the purpose of being examined, and for the
production of any writings or other documents mentioned in the order and of any
other writings or documents relating to the matter in question that are in the
possession or power of that party or witness.
       (Canada Evidence Act (R.S.C., 1985 c. C-5,
§ 46(1)[1].)
 
            As such,
the motion for issuance of letters rogatory is GRANTED.


