 Case Number:  22LBCV00926    Hearing Date:   September 19, 2023    Dept:  S27 1.    
Background
Facts
Plaintiff, Alan Barahona filed this action against Defendants, LACMTA,
the City of Los Angeles, and the State of California for personal
injuries.  Plaintiff filed his complaint
on 12/06/22, and served the City on 12/29/22. 
On 5/18/22, the City filed a cross-complaint against LACMTA for
indemnification and related claims.  
 
2.    
Demurrer
a.     Legal
Standard on Demurrer
A demurrer is a pleading used to test
the legal sufficiency of other pleadings. It raises issues of law, not fact,
regarding the form or content of the opposing party’s pleading.  It is not the function of the demurrer to
challenge the truthfulness of the complaint; and for purpose of the ruling on
the demurrer, all facts pleaded in the complaint are assumed to be true, however
improbable they may be.
 
A demurrer can be used only to
challenge defects that appear on the face of the pleading under attack; or from
matters outside the pleading that are judicially noticeable. Blank v. Kirwan 39
Cal.3d 311 (1985). No other extrinsic evidence can be considered (i.e., no
“speaking demurrers”). A demurrer is brought under CCP § 430.10 [grounds], §
430.30 [as to any matter on its face or from which judicial notice may be
taken], and § 430.50(a) [can be taken to the entire complaint or any cause of
action within].  Specifically, a demurrer
may be brought per CCP § 430.10(e) if insufficient facts are stated to support the
cause of action asserted.  Per CCP
§430.10(a) a demurrer may be brought where the court has no jurisdiction of the
subject of the cause of action alleged in the pleading.  Furthermore, demurrer for uncertainty will be
sustained only where the complaint is so bad that the defendant cannot reasonably
respond.  CCP § 430.10(f).  
 
However, in construing the
allegations, the court is to give effect to specific factual allegations that
may modify or limit inconsistent general or conclusory allegations. Financial
Corporation of America v. Wilburn, 189 Cal.App.3rd 764, 769 (1987). And, if the
facts pled in the complaint are inconsistent with facts which are incorporated
by reference from exhibits attached to the complaint, the facts in the
incorporated exhibits control. Further, irrespective of the name or label given
to a cause of action by the plaintiff, a general demurrer must be overruled if
the facts as pled in the body of the complaint state some valid claim for relief.
Special demurrers are not allowed in limited jurisdiction courts. (CCP § 92(c).)
 
Leave to amend must be allowed
where there is a reasonable possibility of successful amendment. Goodman v. Kennedy,
18 Cal.3d 335, 348 (1976). The burden is on the complainant to show the Court
that a pleading can be amended successfully. (Id.) 
Finally, CCP section 430.41
requires that “[b]efore filing a demurrer pursuant to this chapter, the
demurring party shall meet and confer in person or by telephone with the party
who filed the pleading that is subject to demurrer for the purpose of determining
whether an agreement can be reached that would resolve the objections to be
raised in the demurrer.” (CCP §430.41(a).) The parties are to meet and confer
at least five days before the date the responsive pleading is due. (CCP §430.41(a)(2).)
Thereafter, the demurring party shall file and serve a declaration detailing
their meet and confer efforts. (CCP §430.41(a)(3).)
 
b.    
Meet
and Confer
LACMTA’s attorney, Eitan Yehoshua declares LACMTA called the City and also
sent an email, but had to file this demurrer without resolution.  Counsel’s declaration lacks details
concerning when the phone call and email were sent.  The City, in opposition to the demurrer, contends
LACMTA did not commence its attempts until the day before it filed its demurrer.  
 
The Court finds the meet and confer attempts were insufficient.  The hearing on the demurrer is continued for
six weeks, to Tuesday, 10/31/23.  Counsel
are ordered to meet and confer in good faith within the next three weeks.  If Counsel are unable to come to agreement, each
party must file a meet and confer declaration and a brief (no more than five
pages) detailing what issues remain unresolved despite the parties’ attempts to
meet and confer.  The declaration and
brief must be filed at least two weeks prior to the continued hearing
date.  
 
c.    
Guidance  
In the interest of assisting the
parties’ meet and confer efforts, the Court has briefly considered the issues and
will provide guidance at this time.
 
First, the Court notes that the
City contends it gave LACMTA additional time to file an answer to the cross-complaint,
but not to challenge the cross-complaint. 
Exhibit C to the opposition shows that LACMTA emailed, on 6/15/23, and
asked for an extension to file a responsive pleading.  The City wrote back, on the same day, and
indicated an extension would be granted to “answer.”  It is unclear why LACMTA failed to file the
CCP §430.41(a)(2) declaration, which automatically extends the time to answer
OR file a pleading challenge, choosing instead to enter into a vague
stipulation with the City.  
 
In any event, the Court is inclined
to consider the demurrer on its merits, as it is in the interest of justice to
have all legal issues resolves at the outset of litigation rather than expending
party and court resources arguing the issues at a later stage.
 
Second, the Court notes that both parties
agree that the City’s claim was served on LACMTA one week late.  Pursuant to 
 
Third, the City argues it should be
permitted to file a late claim.  There is
a process for filing a late claim.  The process
is articulated in Gov Code §911.4.  The
Court is not familiar with any authority permitting the City to ask for leave
to file a late claim in opposition to a demurrer.
 
The parties must meet and confer to
determine a practical course of the proceedings in light of the above.  The Court does not wish to address a demurrer
if the parties are also proceeding with a late claim filing application that
will ultimately be granted.  
 
3.     Case
Management Conference
The parties are reminded that there
is a CMC on calendar concurrently with the hearing on the above demurrer.  The Court asks the parties to make arrangements
to appear remotely at the CMC and hearing on the demurrer.