 Case Number:  22STCV30035    Hearing Date:   December 13, 2023    Dept:  14 (1)       OSC re: Sanctions
 
            The first hearing
in this case was the case management conference, held on May 2, 2023.
Defendants Fede and Figueroa appeared. Plaintiff did not. This court continued
the case management conference and set an OSC re: dismissal for July 25, 2023.
 
            On July 24,
2023, Plaintiff’s counsel filed a declaration explaining his absence from the
prior hearing as a simple calendaring error of the kind that occur all the time
in litigation.
 
            On July 25,
2023, this court called the case management conference and the OSC re: dismissal.
Defendants Fede and Figueroa appeared in person, as it was their understanding
that physical appearances had been ordered by the court. Plaintiff’s counsel
appeared telephonically.
 
            At the
hearing, Plaintiff’s counsel represented that Defendant Vogel now lives abroad,
in Germany. Plaintiff’s counsel observed that, due to the cumbersome procedures
associated with international service, Plaintiff would probably be unable to
serve Defendant Vogel in advance of the statutory time limit. He indicated an
intent to proceed against Defendants Fede and Figueroa alone.
 
            The court
set trial dates at the July 25 hearing. It also continued the OSC re: Dismissal
to September 1, 2023, and ordered all counsel and unrepresented parties to
appear in person on that date. Subsequently, the court continued the hearing to
October 5, 2023. 
 
Plaintiff’s counsel filed no
subsequent, further declaration in response to the OSC. Instead, they moved to
be relieved, a motion which was granted on October 5, 2023, effective on filing
a proof that the order granting relief had been served upon the client. Proof
of service of the order was filed on October 26, 2023.
 
On October 5, 2023, this court issued
an OSC re: Sanctions, directing Plaintiff to explain both the legal theory and evidentiary
support for asserting the first, second, third, fourth, fifth, sixth, seventh,
and tenth causes of action against Defendants Michael Fede and Casandra
Figueroa. Plaintiff has filed no response to the OSC, nor has he taken any other
action.
 
            The court
has reviewed Plaintiff’s complaint. Nothing is alleged there which would
support the direct assertion of the first, second, third, fourth, fifth, sixth,
seventh, and tenth causes of action against Defendants Fede and Figueroa. The only
connection which appears between Plaintiff and Defendants Fede and Figueroa is
the sub-landlord/sub-tenant relationship. 
 
Nor does there appear to be any real
prospect of asserting those claims against them based on the vicarious theory
of conspiracy. The only connection which appears between Defendant Mona Vogel
and the other defendants is a personal acquaintance and the
sub-landlord/sub-tenant relationship. This is especially true in light of the
fact that Plaintiff has shown no indication that he will ever proceed against
Defendant Mona Vogel.
 
Therefore, pursuant to Code of
Civil Procedure section 128.7(c) & (d), the court orders that the first,
second, third, fourth, fifth, sixth, seventh, and tenth causes of action
against Defendants Fede and Figueroa are DISMISSED. Plaintiff is ORDERED to
file a First Amended Complaint, within 30 days, which does not include these
causes of action. Plaintiff is further ORDERED to pay $500 to Defendant Fede
and $500 to Defendant Figueroa within 30 days. The monetary sanctions will
compensate Defendants for their expenses in responding to the dismissed claims.
 
(2)       OSC re:
Dismissal
 
            This court
set an OSC re: Dismissal due to Plaintiff’s failure to appear on May 2, 2023.
It has remained on calendar with respect to Defendant Vogel only pursuant to
the court’s orders of July 25, 2023, and October 5, 2023. At the last hearing,
Plaintiff was ordered to either produce a plan to serve Defendant Vogel, or
else to dismiss her.
 
            Plaintiff
has not submitted any response to this OSC. It does not appear that there is
any viable plan to prosecute this case against Defendant Vogel. Therefore, the
case against Defendant Vogel is DISMISSED, for lack of prosecution.
 
            The court
sets an OSC re: Dismissal of Entire Case for Lack of Prosecution for January
24, 2023, at 8:30 am. 