  Case Number:  22STCV15379    Hearing Date:   December 13, 2023    Dept:  14 (1)       Motion for
Preliminary Injunction
 
            Defendants
now move this court for orders (1) preventing one Alex Galindo from prosecuting
a PAGA action currently pending in arbitration, (2) preventing Mr. Galindo or
his counsel from seeking any determinations from the arbitrator in that
proceeding, and (3) consolidating this lawsuit with that arbitration. 
 
Decision
 
            Plaintiffs’
Request for Judicial Notice is GRANTED as
to the existence of the documents, and the fact that certain statements were made,
not as to the truth of the contents. Lockley v. Law Office of Cantrell,
Green, Pekich, Cruz & McCort (2001) 91 Cal.App.4th 875, 882.
 
            The motion is
DENIED.
 
Governing Statutes
 
Code of Civil Procedure § 525 defines
an injunction:
 
“An
injunction is a writ or order requiring a person to refrain from a particular
act. It may be granted by the court in which the action is brought, or by a
judge thereof; and when granted by a judge, it may be enforced as an order of
the court.”
 
Code of Civil Procedure § 526 sets
forth the scenarios in which the court can grant an injunction. As relevant to
this case, Section 526 provides as follows:
 
“(a)
An injunction may be granted in the following cases:
…
(6)
Where the restraint is necessary to prevent a multiplicity of judicial
proceedings.
…
(b)
An injunction cannot be granted in the following cases:
(1)
To stay a judicial proceeding pending at the commencement of the action in
which the injunction is demanded, unless the restraint is necessary to prevent
a multiplicity of proceedings.
…”
 
Discussion
 
            This court
has broad inherent power to govern the conduct of any litigation before it.
But, for that reason, its ability to interfere with the conduct of litigation
pending elsewhere is tightly
circumscribed. These strictures come with additional strength when that other
proceeding is a contractual arbitration and the plaintiff in that proceeding is
in no way before this court.
 
            This case
is a class and PAGA representative action. The arbitration proceeding is an
individual action filed by Alex Galindo to vindicate that person’s individual
rights. (Plaintiff’s Request for Judicial Notice Exhibit 1). The arbitration is
being held pursuant to a contract drafted and proposed by the moving party.
Alex Galindo is not a party to this case. This court has no legal basis to
interrupt those proceedings.
 
            Code of
Civil Procedure § 526, as quoted above, only gives this court authority to
stay the proceedings in other cases if those cases are pending within the
California court system. Code of Civil Procedure § 526(b)(2)-(3) forbid the
court from staying federal cases, or cases pending in another state. The logic
of that restriction applies to arbitrations as well, except insofar as the
court’s ability to halt or manipulate arbitration proceedings is set forth in the
California Arbitration Act.
 
            Code of
Civil Procedure § 1281.2(d) permits this court to respond in certain ways
to a motion to compel arbitration. No such motion is currently before the
court. Section 1281.2(d) does not authorize the court to spontaneously halt an
arbitration proceeding which was initiated without court involvement and is
being prosecuted by a person who is not before the court. Code of Civil
Procedure § 1281.3 authorizes the court to consolidate arbitration
proceedings with each other; it does not authorize the court to pull
arbitration proceedings into court. 
 
Potential class members cannot be
compelled to participate in class litigation. And PAGA claims are conceptually different
and separable from individual wage claims. See Nixon v. AmeriHome Mortgage
Company, LLC (2021) 67 Cal.App.5th 934, 951-952. There is simply
no legal rule, doctrine, or precedent that supports Defendants’ request.
 
This is not to say that the request
is unreasonable. From a practical perspective, it may make sense to have all
wage claims against these defendants proceed in the same forum. But that is not
what Defendants contracted for. And as at least one Court of Appel has
lamented, administrative wisdom is not a basis for altering an arbitration. See
Mastick v. TD Ameritrade, Inc. (2012) 209 Cal.App.4th 1258,
1263. 
 
Conclusion
 
            No rule of
law permits this court to stay or consolidate the arbitration currently being
prosecuted by Alex Galindo. Therefore, the motion for preliminary injunction is
DENIED.
 
(2)       Motion for
Attorney’s Fees
 
            Plaintiff Guffey
now moves this court, per Code of Civil Procedure § 1281.98, for an award
of $154,636.62 in attorney’s fees and costs.
 
Decision
 
            Plaintiff’s
Request for Judicial Notice is DENIED as containing the improper submission of
evidence on reply. See Scott v.
CIBA Vision Corp. (1995) 38 Cal.App.4th 307, 322.
 
            The motion
is GRANTED. Plaintiff Moore is awarded sanctions of $154,636.62 against
Defendants Rokit, Lewis, and Becker, jointly and severally, payable to his counsel
within 30 days.
 
Discussion
 
            Code of
Civil Procedure §§ 1281.98(c) and 1281.99(a) entitle Plaintiff Guffey to recover
“all attorney’s fees and all costs associated with” the arbitration proceeding,
as well as any other fees and costs that result from the Defendants’ failure to
pay their arbitration fees. This court’s ruling on October 17, 2023
acknowledged this entitlement and granted Plaintiff Guffey his costs. The court
asked for a separate motion on the amount of attorney’s fees only. This is that
motion.
 
            Plaintiff
Moore has submitted detailed time sheets indicating that Attorneys R. Craig
Clark and Alicja A. Urtnowski have spent a combined 235.9 hours on matters
covered by the statutory provisions. Mr. Clark claims an hourly rate of $920
and Ms. Urtnowski claims an hourly rate of $650.
 
            Defense
first argues that Defendants Lewis and Becker were not parties to the
arbitration. But the evidence submitted does not support that conclusion. Defense
Exhibits A and B are dated months before this case (and with it, Defendants
Lewis and Becker) was ordered into arbitration. Defense Exhibit C is an order
on a discovery dispute; not all parties to the case are automatically parties
to a discovery dispute. Defendants Lewis and Becker were party to the original request
to go to arbitration, and this court’s order that they do so. The court
presumes that they did so.
 
            Next,
Defense argues, as they did in connection with the motion to set aside which
this court heard on October 17, 2023, that they cannot be liable because they
are not the drafters of the agreement. But as the court explained in its prior
ruling, the statute does not divide the universe into “drafters” and “non-drafters.”
It distinguishes between drafters and “employees” or “consumers,” suggesting that
“drafters” would include affiliated persons who seek to enforce the agreement.
And, as the court further explained, Defendants are the ones who sought to
enforce the contract. They cannot very well be heard to complain about the
consequences of doing so.
 
            Briefly,
Defendants suggest that they will prevail in this case. But that is irrelevant.
The issue is not who will ultimately win. It’s how much Plaintiff spent in
arbitration.
 
            Finally,
Defendants argue that the fees are excessive. They suggest that Plaintiff has
not met his burden to establish the rates, but they offer no alternative rate. And
the only challenge they offer to the hours is that the two attorneys who billed
on Plaintiff’s case frequently billed the same amount of time for performing the
same task. That is a fair criticism, and if the bills reflected that every task
got billed twice, a reduction would be justified. That is not what the bills
reflect. The bills reflect that sometimes one attorney worked on a task,
sometimes the other, and sometimes both.
 
            It is
commonplace to have more than one attorney on the same case, and that means
that counsel will sometimes have to expend billable hours working together on
the same thing. Two charges are not always duplicative simply because two counsel
spent the same amount of time on the same task. And Defense gives this court no
indication as to which specific entries they wish to challenge as duplicative. 
 
Conclusion
 
            The law
entitles Plaintiff Guffey to a recovery of fees and costs. Defendants were the
ones who wanted to go to arbitration, now they must bear the consequences of
their decision to leave arbitration. There is no facial issue with the bills
submitted. Therefore, the motion is GRANTED. Plaintiff Guffey is awarded sanctions
of $154,636.62 against Defendants Rokit, Lewis, and Becker, jointly and
severally, payable to his counsel within 30 days.
 
(3)       Case
Management Conference
 
            This case
is now a class action. Class actions are not generally handled by the
Independent Calendar Civil departments, and they are expressly defined as
complex by California Rules of Court Rule 3.400(c)(6) and Local Rule 3.3(k)(8).
While this case was denied admission into the Complex Litigation Program, this
court retains the authority to deem this case complex and manage it
accordingly. California Rules of Court Rule 3.402(b); Local Rule 3.3(k)(5). 
 
            The court
DEEMS this case COMPLEX. Each party is ordered to pay the fees required by
Government Code § 70616 within 30 days.
 
            The Case
Management Conference is CONTINUED to February 6, 2024, at 8:30 am. The parties
are to meet and confer regarding a case management order. Counsel are to lodge
a proposed case management order by 4 pm on January 26, 2024.
 