  Case Number:  21STCV03095    Hearing Date:   March 7, 2024    Dept:  50  
 
 
Superior
Court of California
County
of Los Angeles
Department 50
 




CAROL M. SONI (AKA SYLMARAH BARUTI), et al.
 
                        Plaintiffs,
            vs.
KIM B. PRIESTLEY, et
  al.
 
                        Defendants.


Case No.:


 21STCV03095
  




Hearing Date:


March 7, 2024




Hearing Time:


2:00 p.m.




[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: 
 
DEFENDANTS KIM
  B. PRIESTLEY AND DARRYL H. PRIESTLEY’S MOTION FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT, OR IN THE
  ALTERNATIVE, SUMMARY ADJUDICATION
 




            
 
 
Background
Plaintiffs Carol M. Soni aka Sylmarah Baruti
(“Soni”) and The Estate of Obalajii Khepheren Rust (the “Estate”) (jointly,
“Plaintiffs”) filed this action on January 26, 2021 against Defendants Kim B.
Priestley and Darryl H. Priestley (jointly, “Defendants”). The Complaint
alleges causes of action for (1) wrongful eviction, (2) intentional infliction
of emotional distress, (3) conversion, and (4) defamation per se: filing a
false police report. 
Defendants now move for an order granting
summary judgment, or in the alternative, summary adjudication in favor of
Defendants and against Plaintiffs as to all causes of action alleged in
Plaintiffs’ Complaint. Soni opposes. 
 
 
Request for Judicial Notice and Supplemental Declaration of Kim B.
Priestley 
The
Court denies Defendants’ request for judicial notice in support of Defendants’
reply. The Court also declines to consider the Declaration of Kim
B. Priestley filed in support of Defendants’ reply. The Court notes that “¿[t]he general
rule of motion practice…is that new evidence is not permitted with reply
papers.¿” (¿Jay v. Mahaffey¿(2013) 218 Cal.App.4th 1522, 1537¿.)

Objections 
In connection with the reply, Defendants
filed a document titled “Defendants Kim B. Priestley and Darryl H.
Priestley’s Objections and Response to Plaintiff’s Additional Separate
Statement of Undisputed Material Facts.” This document appears to contain
evidentiary objections. However, the document is not in compliance with California Rules of Court, rule 3.1354, subdivision (b), which provides that “[a]ll
written objections to evidence must be served and filed separately from the
other papers in support of or in opposition to the motion. Objections to
specific evidence must be referenced by the objection number in the right
column of a separate statement in opposition or reply to a motion, but the
objections must not be restated or reargued in the separate statement.”
Thus, the Court declines to consider any purported evidentiary objections
contained in Defendants’ “Objections and Response to Plaintiff’s Additional
Separate Statement of Undisputed Material Facts.”
Legal Standard
“[A] motion for summary judgment shall be granted if all
the papers submitted show that there is no triable issue as to any material
fact and that the moving party is entitled to a judgment as a matter of law.” ((Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (c).) “A party may move for summary adjudication as to one or more
causes of action within an action, one or more affirmative defenses, one or
more claims for damages, or one or more issues of duty, if the party contends
that the cause of action has no merit, that there is no affirmative defense to
the cause of action, that there is no merit to an affirmative defense as to any
cause of action, that there is no merit to a claim for damages, as specified in
Section 3294 of the Civil Code, or that one or more
defendants either owed or did not owe a duty to the plaintiff or plaintiffs. A
motion for summary adjudication shall be granted only if it completely disposes
of a cause of action, an affirmative defense, a claim for damages, or an issue
of duty.” ((Id., § 437c,
subd. (f)(1).) 
The moving party bears the initial burden of production to
make a prima facie showing that there are no triable issues of material fact.
((Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 850.) If
the moving party carries this burden, the burden shifts to the opposing party
to make a prima facie showing that a triable issue of material fact exists. ((Ibid.) Courts
“liberally construe the evidence in support of the party opposing summary
judgment and resolve doubts concerning the evidence in favor of that party.” ((Dore v. Arnold Worldwide, Inc. (2006) 39 Cal.4th 384, 389.) 
When a defendant seeks summary judgment or summary
adjudication, he/she must show either (1) that one or more elements of the
cause of action cannot be established; or (2) that there is a complete defense
to that cause of action. ((Code Civ. Proc., § 437c,
subd. (p)(2).) 
Discussion
A.    Allegations of the
Complaint 
In the Complaint, Plaintiffs allege that prior to 2010, Obalajii Khepheren Rust (“Mr. Rust”) became a tenant
at the property located at 1933 W. Martin Luther King Blvd, Los Angeles,
California 90062 (the “Subject Property”) pursuant to a written Lease
Agreement. (Compl., ¶¶ 5, 7.) Mr. Rust’s tenancy fell within “Section 8” housing. (Compl., ¶ 7.) 
From September 2013, Soni began living with Mr. Rust at the Subject
Property about five days a week. (Compl., ¶ 8.) On August 20, 2019, Soni and
Mr. Rust were married, and Soni continued to live at the Subject Property.
(Compl., ¶ 9.) 
On July 29, 2020, Mr. Rust passed away. (Compl., ¶ 13.) On July 31,
2020, Defendants, without warning, changed the locks on the Subject Property.
(Compl., ¶ 14.) Soni contacted the Los Angeles Police Department (“LAPD”), and
when they arrived on July 31, 2020, they deemed the lockout to be “illegal.”
(Compl., ¶ 15.) The LAPD officers instructed Defendants to give Soni a key to
the Subject Property, but Defendants refused to do so. (Compl., ¶ 15.) LAPD
officers advised Soni to get a locksmith to gain access to the Subject
Property. (Compl., ¶ 15.) 
Soni
returned the following morning with a locksmith to allow her to gain entry to
the Subject Property, but the property manager began to harass the locksmith
and prevent the locksmith from gaining access to the Subject Property. (Compl.,
¶ 17.) Soni called LAPD again. (Compl., ¶ 17.)
Shortly thereafter, Priestley and the property manager arrived, called
LAPD themselves, and falsely reported to LAPD that Soni was brandishing a knife
at them. (Compl., ¶ 18.) When LAPD arrived, they presented stun guns and other
weapons. (Compl., ¶ 19.) LAPD gave Soni 
10
minutes to get her belongings from the Subject Property, but SONI informed LAPD
that she was unable to acquire all of her belongings at that moment as she was
without boxes and did not have a place to stay. (Compl., ¶ 19.) 
            Soni returned to the Subject
Property with boxes, but the locks had been changed and the Subject Property
was locked. (Compl., ¶ 22.) Soni called LAPD again but was informed that there
was nothing they could do. (Compl., ¶ 22.) Despite repeated attempts by Soni to
be permitted back into the Subject Property, Defendants have refused. (Compl.,
¶ 23.) On or about August 8, 2020, after Soni’s most recent request for the
return of her personal property, Defendants caused some Plaintiffs’ personal
property to be thrown out onto the street in garbage bags. (Compl., ¶ 25.)
However, not all property was “returned.” (Compl., ¶ 25.) 
B.    First Cause of Action for Wrongful Eviction 
Defendants assert that Soni
was not a tenant on Mr. Rust’s lease contract and thus does not have standing
to bring a wrongful eviction action. Defendants also assert that Soni did not
have permission or consent to live as a tenant at Mr. Rust’s apartment. 
In her supporting declaration, Kim B. Priestley states that “Obalajii
Rust…entered into a contract with Section 8 and my
husband, Darryl Priestley, and me on March 17, 2010 for an apartment located at
1933 W. Martin Luther King Jr. Blvd. in Los Angeles, Ca. 90062, as a single
man.” (Kim Priestley Decl., ¶ 1.) Kim B. Priestley further states that
“Plaintiff Carol Soni (aka Sylmarah Baruti) is not a tenant, did not live at,
and did not have me or my husband’s permission to live at Mr. Rust’s apartment
at 1933 W. Martin Luther King Jr. Blvd., Los Angeles, CA. 90062. Plaintiff
never made any promise or offer to me or my husband to pay rent for Mr. Rust’s
apartment.” (Kim Priestley Decl., ¶ 5.) 
Defendants cite to Federal Ins. Co. v. Steadfast Ins. Co. (2012) 209 Cal.App.4th
668, 671, where “[t]he United States brought an action against the
insureds—the Sterling defendants—for discrimination under the Fair Housing Act
(42 U.S.C. section 3601 et seq.) (Sterling action).
The primary insurance carriers, Steadfast Insurance Company…and Liberty Surplus Insurance Corporation…insured against claims
for wrongful eviction, wrongful entry, and invasion of the right of private
occupancy. The excess and umbrella insurance carrier, Federal Insurance Company…insured against those claims and
specifically insured against claims for discrimination.” (Internal quotations
omitted.) The Court of Appeal found that “[a]lthough the discrimination alleged
in the Sterling action may have been based in part on acts that might involve
wrongful evictions, wrongful entries, or invasions of the right of private
occupancy, the gravamen of the action itself was solely for housing
discrimination under the Fair Housing Act. The Sterling action cannot be
construed as asserting common law theories of wrongful eviction, wrongful
entry, or invasion of the right of private occupancy. Only the tenant can
claim wrongful eviction, wrongful entry, or invasion of the right of
private occupancy.” (Id. at p. 682, emphasis
added.) 
But as noted by Soni, “[t]he law
provides both statutory and tort remedies for wrongful eviction…Statutory
remedies are available for forcible entry and detainer, including those
committed by a landlord. (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 1159,
1160.)…those remedies are not limited to ‘tenants’ alone.” (Spinks
v. Equity Residential Briarwood Apartments (2009) 171 Cal.App.4th 1004, 1037, emphasis added.) The Spinks
Court found as follows: 
 
“The forcible entry statute
protects a ‘party in possession.’ (Code Civ. Proc., §
1159.) ‘The ‘party in possession’ refers to any person who ‘hires’ real
property.’ (Friedman et al., Cal. Practice Guide: Landlord—Tenant, supra, ¶ 7:6, p. 7-3
(rev. # 1, 2006); see Civ. Code, §§ 1925, 1940.)
With exceptions for transient hotel guests, that includes ‘all persons who hire
dwelling units located within this state including tenants, lessees, boarders,
lodgers, and others, however denominated.’ (Civ. Code,
§ 1940, subd. (a).) At trial, the plaintiff is required to show only ‘that
he was peaceably in the actual possession at the time of the forcible entry.’ (Code Civ. Proc., § 1172.) The forcible detainer statute
protects the ‘occupant of real property,’ meaning one ‘in the peaceable and
undisturbed possession of such lands.’ (Code Civ.
Proc., § 1160; see
Moldovan v. Fischer (1957) 149 Cal.App.2d 600, 607 [308 P.2d 844].)
For occupants in peaceful possession of real property, these
statutes offer protection from self-help, without regard to the parties’ legal
claims to title or possession. ‘The statutes … reflect a policy, with deep
roots in English law, barring the use of forceful self-help to enforce a right
to possession of real property and requiring instead the use of judicial
process to gain possession.’” ((Spinks v. Equity Residential Briarwood Apartments, supra, 171 Cal.App.4th at pp. 1037-1038.)

The Spinks
Court further found that “[b]oth before and after the enactment of the present forcible
entry and detainer statutes this court held that ownership or right of
possession[1] to the property was not a
defense to an action for forcible entry. Witkin explains: A tenant
holding over without permission is technically a trespasser. But by
statute the owner must use the unlawful detainer procedure, and, if the owner
ousts the tenant forcibly, the tenant may regain possession by an action for forcible
entry. Landlords thus may enforce their rights only by judicial process, not by
self-help. Regardless of who has the right to possession, orderly procedure
and preservation of the peace require that the actual possession shall not be
disturbed except by legal process.” ((Id. at p. 1038 [internal quotations and
citations omitted].)  
Defendants
also assert that Soni “was not in peaceable possession of the
premises as she admitted that she did not live there…and was witnessed by
residents as a guest on the property without her own set of keys to the front
gate of the property.” (Mot. at p. 14:10-13.) Ms. Priestley states that
“Plaintiff told my [sic] by phone on July 30, 2020, that she has never lived
with Obalajji Rust, she lived in the valley and didn’t like Obalajii Rust’s
unit because it was too small and noisy.” (Kim Priestley Decl., ¶ 9.) Ms.
Priestley also states that “[a]ll tenants have keys, provided to them by the
landlord, to the front gate to enter the property.” (Priestley Decl., ¶ 6.)
Defendants submit the Declaration of Patrick Myers, who states that he lived at
1935 West Martin Luther King Blvd, Los Angeles California 90062 since July 13,
2005. (Myers Decl., ¶ 1.) Mr. Myers states that “I had conversation [sic] with
Obalajii Rust regarding Carol M. Soni/Sylmarah, he asked me why I would not
open the gate for his friend to enter the apartment building, and my response
was she’s your guest not mine. There were times I would stay in
my car when I saw her at the gate, I would wait until Obalajii Rust
would open the gate for her, than [sic] I would go to my unit.” (Myers Decl., ¶
3.) 
Soni asserts that she was in peaceable possession of the subject apartment
at the time of Mr. Rust’s death. In her supporting declaration, Soni states
that “[a]t the time of our marriage, Mr. Rust resided in a Section 8 apartment located at 1933 W. Martin Luther
King Jr. Blvd., Los Angeles, California 90062 (the ‘Subject
Apartment’.)…Following our marriage and continuing through the time of Mr.
Rust’s death, I resided in the Subject Apartment with Mr. Rust…It was well known
around the apartment complex that I resided in the Subject Apartment with Mr.
Rust.” (Soni Decl., ¶¶ 3-5.) Soni also submits the declaration of Recoe Walker,
who states that “I live at 1929 1/2 West Martin Luther King, Jr. Blvd. Los
Angeles CA 90062. I am a very close neighbor to [Mr. Rust], and I have known
him for about 11 years. He has been in the building much longer than I did. I
know that [Mr. Rust] and SONI were married because he told me…They lived
together in his home located at 1933 W. Martin Luther King Jr. Los Angeles CA
90062 for over 7 years.” (Walker Decl., ¶ 1.) The Walker declaration further
provides that “[m]y apartment is so close to them that I can see their comings
and goings etc. I have seen her bringing in groceries, doing laundry, I have
seen her driving [Mr. Rust] to hospitals and also taking care of him after he
became sick until his death.” (Walker Decl., ¶ 2.) 
In light of the foregoing, the Court finds that Soni has raised a
triable issue of material fact as to whether she was “in
peaceful possession of” the subject property. ((Ibid.)[2]

Based on the foregoing,
the Court does not find that Defendants have shown that summary adjudication of
the first cause of action is warranted. 
C.    Third Cause of Action for Conversion 
“Conversion is the wrongful exercise of
dominion over the property of another. The elements of a conversion claim are:
(1) the plaintiff’s ownership or right to possession of the property; (2) the
defendant’s conversion by a wrongful act or disposition of property rights; and
(3) damages.” ((Lee
v. Hanley (2015) 61 Cal.4th 1225,
1240.) In the Complaint, Plaintiffs allege that “Defendants…took
possession of Plaintiffs personal property and belonging [sic] with the intent
to permanently establish dominion over those items, including but not limited
to Plaintiff SONI’s personal laptop, which has never been returned.” (Compl., ¶
47.) 
In the motion,
Defendants assert that they are “an improper party for the conversion cause of
action as they were not present in California when the alleged dispossession of
Plaintiff’s belongings occurred.” (Mot. at p. 16:9-11.) In her supporting
declaration, Ms. Priestley states that “[a]t the time of Mr.
Rust’s death on July 29, 2020, my husband and I were out of the state and
overseas in St. Croix, Virgin Islands. While we were in St. Croix, my daughter
was in charge of our rental properties at 1933 W. Martin Luther King Jr. Blvd.
in Los Angeles, Ca. 90062.” (Kim
Priestley Decl., ¶ 8.) 
In the opposition, Soni asserts that Defendants are liable for
“conversions committed by their agents, including their grown children, their
property managers, and/or Gigi Rust…” (Opp’n at p. 14:1-2.) Soni cites to NoNoble
v. Sears, Roebuck & Co. (1973) 33 Cal.App.3d 654,
663, where the
Court of Appeal noted that “a principal
may be liable for the torts of an agent committed in the scope of authority…” In
her supporting declaration, Soni states that “the lock on [sic] front door was
changed on July 31, 2020 - within two days of the date that Mr. Rust died.”
(Soni Decl., ¶ 26.) Soni also states that “[t]he Priestleys admit that they
authorized Gigi Rust to access the Subject Apartment and to remove items that
Gigi believed in her sole discretion to belong to Mr. Rust…The Priestleys did
so based on their position that Gigi Rust is Mr. Rust’s next of kin.” (Soni
Decl., ¶¶ 41-42.)[3] 
In the motion,
Defendants also assert that “if the [Defendants] are potentially liable on an
agency or similar theory with regard to conversion, they retain a full
affirmative defense of acting on a good faith belief that Plaintiff was not a
tenant or spouse of Mr. Rust and conformed their actions with governing law.”
(Mot. at p. 17:17-21.) In support of this assertion, Defendants cite to Giacomelos v. Bank of America Nat'l Trust & Sav.
Asso. (1965) 237 Cal.App.2d 99,
100-101, where the Court of Appeal noted that “[c]onversion is an intentional exercise of dominion over a
chattel which interferes with the right of another to control it. The good
faith of the bank is
conceded, but, admittedly, is not a defense. The law does recognize the dilemma
of one in possession as a bailee or similar holder upon demand by a third party
for the goods. Such holder does not become a converter by making a
qualified refusal to surrender if his real and stated purpose is to secure a
reasonable opportunity to inquire into the claimant’s right.” (Internal citations omitted.) But
here, Defendants do not appear to provide any evidence demonstrating that
Defendants’ “real and stated purpose [was] to secure
a reasonable opportunity to inquire into the claimant’s right…” (Giacomelos v. Bank of
America Nat'l Trust & Sav. Asso.,
supra, 237 Cal.App.2d at p. 101.) 
Defendants
also cite to Church of Scientology v. Armstrong (1991) 232 Cal.App.3d 1060, 1072,
where the Court of Appeal noted that “[w]ith
respect to plaintiffs’ causes of action for conversion, [o]ne is
privileged to commit an act which would otherwise be a trespass to or a
conversion of a chattel in the possession of another, for the purpose of
defending himself or a third person against the other, under the same
conditions which would afford a privilege to inflict a harmful or offensive
contact upon the other for the same purpose. For the purpose of defending his
own person, an actor is privileged to make intentional invasions of another’s
interests or personality when the actor reasonably believes that such other
person intends to cause a confinement or a harmful or offensive contact to the
actor, of that such invasion of his interests is reasonably probable, and the
actor reasonably believes that the apprehended harm can be safely prevented
only by the infliction of such harm upon the other. A similar privilege is
afforded an actor for the protection of certain third persons.” (Internal
quotations and citations omitted.) But Defendants do not appear to argue that
they made “intentional invasions of another’s interests or personality when
[Defendants] reasonably believe[d] that such other person intends to cause a
confinement or a harmful or offensive contact to [Defendants]…” (Church of Scientology v. Armstrong,
supra, 232 Cal.App.3d at p. 1072.) Thus, the Court does not see
how Armstrong is relevant here. 
Defendants
also assert that “Plaintiff was permitted to take her belongings
from Mr. Rust’s apartment on at least two occasions” and that
“Plaintiff…rejected her own belongings when given a final chance to collect
them.” (Mot. at p. 17:2-3; 17:8-9.) Defendants note that “the law is well settled that there can be no
conversion where an owner
either expressly or impliedly assents to or ratifies the taking, use or
disposition of his property.” ((Farrington v. A. Teichert &
Son, Inc. (1943) 59 Cal.App.2d
468, 474.) 
In her supporting declaration, Kim B. Priestley states that “I was
advised by my daughter that Plaintiff came to the property on July 31, 2020
with a locksmith and the police arrived. Video taken by my daughter shows that
Plaintiff had the opportunity to take her belongings out of Mr. Rust’s property
and that the officer advised my daughter to notify the next of kin for Mr. Rust
to turn the apartment over to them.” (Kim Priestley Decl., ¶ 12.) In addition,
Defendants submit the Declaration of Phyllis Bordenave-Priestley, who states
that her mother is Kim Bordenave-Priestley. (Phyllis Bordenave-Priestley Decl.,
¶ 1.) Phyllis Bordenave-Priestley states that “[o]n or about August 8, 2020,
Carol M. Soni/Sylmarah Baruti returned to 1933 W MLK Jr. Blvd Los Angeles, CA
90062 and Gigi Rust (Obalajii Rust’s daughter) called LAPD…Gigi Rust…had placed
some bags of lady items out by the gate for Carol M. Soni/Sylmarah Baruti to
take, and Carol M. Soni/Sylmarah Baruti said they were not her items and
refused to take them. I took a video of Carol M. Soni/Sylmarah Baruti refusing
to take the bags and walked away [sic].” (Phyllis Bordenave-Priestley Decl., ¶
3.)
In the opposition, Soni counters that “[o]n or about August 8, 2020,
some bags containing goods of little, or no value were left outside of the
Subject Apartment. I do not know the identities of the person or persons or
placed the bags there.” (Soni Decl., ¶ 44.) 
In addition, Soni asserts that “the Priestleys allege that Mrs. Soni
was permitted to enter the Subject Apartment on August 1, 2020, to collect her
belongings. By then, however, several valuable items were missing. A full list
of Mrs. Soni’s missing personal effects is contained in Exhibit H.” (Opp’n at
p. 14:12-15.) In her declaration, Soni states that “[m]any valuable items were
taken from the Subject Apartment that belonged to Mr. Rust and/or me, and I
have wholly lost possession and control over these missing items.” (Soni Decl.,
¶ 45.) Soni further states in her declaration that “I compiled an itemized list
of these missing belongings. (A true and correct copy of the Itemized list of
Belongings that Plaintiff Was Unable to Retrieve from the Subject Apartment is
attached hereto as Exhibit H, as listed in Plaintiffs Index of Evidence.).”
(Soni Decl., ¶ 46.) It appears Soni is referring to Exhibit 7, which is labeled
as an “Itemized List of Belongings that Plaintiff Was Unable to Retrieve from
the Subject Apartment.” This list includes, inter alia, furniture, men’s
clothing, women’s clothing, medical items, kitchen items, technology, books,
and coin collections. (See Soni’s Exhibit 7.) 
In light of the foregoing, the Court finds that Soni has raised a
triable issue of material fact as to whether Soni “ratifie[d] the taking, use
or disposition of [Plaintiffs’] property.” (Mot. at p. 17:11.) Thus, based on
the foregoing, the Court does not find that summary adjudication of the third
cause of action is warranted. 
D.    Fourth Cause of Action for Defamation Per Se: Filing a False Police
Report 
In the fourth cause of
action, Plaintiffs allege that “KIM B. PRIESTLEY filed, or caused to be
filed, a false police report on or about July 31, 2020, when she informed LAPD
that Plaintiff SONI was wielding a knife at or near the Subject Property.”
(Compl., ¶ 53.) Plaintiffs allege that “Plaintiff SONI was not, in fact,
wielding a knife, or even in possession of a knife at the time Defendant KIM B.
PRIESTLEY made the false claim to LAPD.” (Compl., ¶ 54.)
Defendants assert that “there is no triable issue of fact as to
defamation per se and/or making a false police report.” (Mot. at p. 18:17-18.) In
her declaration, Kim Priestley states that “[a]s my husband and I-- the only
named defendants in this action-- were not in California at the time Plaintiff
was at Mr. Rust’s apartment, as we were overseas in St. Croix, Virgin Islands,
we were unable to call the police as Plaintiff alleges.” (Kim Priestley Decl.,
¶ 13.) 
In the opposition, Soni asserts that “[c]ontrary to the Priestleys’
contentions, the fact that they were not in California at the time the 911 call
was made on August 1, 2020, does not shield them from liability on Mrs. Soni’s
defamation claim. This is because an employer or principal such as the
Priestleys may be held liable for a defamatory statement made by its employee
or agent.” (Opp’n at p. 14:14-17.) In support of this assertion, Soni cites to Kelly v.
General Telephone Co. (1982) 136 Cal.App.3d 278, 284, where the Court of Appeal noted that “[u]nder principles of respondeat superior, an employer may
be held liable for a defamatory statement made by its employee.” But here, Soni’s third cause of action does not contain
allegations regarding a defamatory statement allegedly made by an employee of
Defendants. Moreover, as noted by Defendants, Soni does not appear to provide
any evidence that an employee of Defendants called the police on Soni.

Defendants also assert that “[p]rior to January 1, 2021, when a
citizen contacted law enforcement to report a suspected crime, then-Civil Code § 47 barred slander and defamation claims.” (Mot. at
p. 19:2-3.) As set forth above, Plaintiffs allege that “Defendant KIM B.
PRIESTLEY filed, or caused to be filed, a false police report on or about July
31, 2020…” (Compl., ¶ 53.) Defendants cite to Williams v. Taylor (1982) 129 Cal.App.3d
745, 753, where the
Court of Appeal noted that “[Civil Code] Section 47, subdivision 2, provides for an absolute privilege with regard to statements made ‘in
any . . . official proceeding authorized by law.’ In our view,
a communication concerning possible wrongdoing, made to an official
governmental agency such as a local police department, and which communication
is designed to prompt action by that entity, is as much a part of an ‘official
proceeding’ as a communication made after an official investigation has commenced.”

Defendants acknowledge that Civil Code section
47, subdivision (b)(5) now provides that “[t]his
subdivision does not make privileged any communication between a person and a
law enforcement agency in which the person makes a false report that another
person has committed, or is in the act of committing, a criminal act or is
engaged in an activity requiring law enforcement intervention, knowing that the
report is false, or with reckless disregard for the truth or falsity of the
report.” Defendants state that this provision was added to Civil Code section 47 on January 1, 2021, citing Stats
2020 ch 327 § 2 (AB 1775), effective January 1, 2021. (See Civ. Code, §
47; see also
2020 Cal ALS 327, 2020 Cal AB 1775, 2020 Cal Stats. ch.
327, “[t]his bill would additionally create an exception to the
privilege provisions for any communication between a person and a law
enforcement agency in which the person knowingly or recklessly makes a false
report that another person has committed, or is in the act of committing, a
criminal act or is engaged in an activity requiring law enforcement
intervention.”) 
            Defendants note that Civil Code section 3 provides that “[n]o part of it is retroactive, unless expressly so
declared.” Defendants accordingly assert that Civil
Code section 47 provides
for a privilege with regard to the alleged false police report allegedly filed
in July 2020. (Compl., ¶ 53.) In the opposition, Soni concedes as to Civil Code section 47, subdivision (b)(5) that “courts
have determined that the amendment is not retroactive.” (Opp’n at p. 15:25.) 
            In the opposition, Soni also cites
to Abuemeira v. Stephens (2016) 246 Cal.App.4th 1291, 1299, where the Court of Appeal
noted that “[r]epublications to
nonparticipants in the action are not privileged and are actionable unless
privileged on some other basis…Thus, the litigation privilege does not apply to publications to
the general public through the press.” But the Court does not see how this is
relevant, as Plaintiffs’ action here does not concern alleged publications made
through the press. 
In light of the foregoing, the Court finds that Defendants have met
their burden of demonstrating that the fourth cause of action is without merit,
and that Soni has failed to raise a triable issue of material fact regarding
this cause of action. Thus, the Court finds that summary adjudication of the
fourth cause of action is warranted. 
E.     Second Cause of Action for Intentional
Infliction of Emotional Distress  
“The elements of the tort of intentional
infliction of emotional distress are: (1) extreme and outrageous conduct by the
defendant with the intention of causing, or reckless disregard of the
probability of causing, emotional distress; (2) the plaintiff’s suffering
severe or extreme emotional distress; and (3) actual and proximate causation of
the emotional distress by the defendant’s outrageous conduct…Conduct to be
outrageous must be so extreme as to exceed all bounds of that usually tolerated
in a civilized community…The defendant must have engaged in conduct intended to
inflict injury or engaged in with the realization that injury will result.” ((Potter v. Firestone
Tire & Rubber Co. (1993) 6
Cal.4th 965, 1001 [internal quotations omitted].) 
In the
Complaint, Plaintiffs allege that “Defendants’ conduct was
extreme, outrageous, and egregious. Defendants, and each of them, locked out
the wife of a legal tenant, two days after the death of her husband without
legal basis, without warning, and without notice. Defendants treated Plaintiff
SONI with hostility, contempt, and malice, going so far as to throwing some of
her personal belongings onto the street in garbage bags after refusing her entry
to the Subject Property and retaining her personal laptop.” (Compl., ¶ 41.) 
In the motion, Defendants assert that they “have the affirmative
defense that they were protecting their rights or the rights of others (Mr.
Rust’s estate and next of kin) by denying Plaintiff entry into the unit during
a time when Plaintiff was unable to prove her marriage and lacked a valid
marriage license to Mr. Rust.” (Mot. at p. 20:14-17.) In her supporting
declaration, Ms. Priestley states that “Plaintiff informed me over the phone on
or around July 30, 2020, that she and Mr. Rust were married, but refused to
prove any proof of the marriage. When I asked for marriage license, Plaintiff’s
reply was that she did not have to prove anything to me.” (Kim Priestley Decl.,
¶ 10.)  Defendants further contend that they
“were exercising their legal rights and protecting their economic interests as
their duties as landlord was to secure the deceased Mr. Rust’s apartment to
transfer it to his next of kin.” (Mot. at pp. 20:28-21:2.) As set forth above, Ms.
Priestley states that “the officer advised my daughter to notify the next of
kin for Mr. Rust to turn the apartment over to them.” (Kim Priestley Decl., ¶
12.) 
Soni asserts that questions of material fact exist as to the second
cause of action. The Court agrees. Soni cites to Spinks v. Equity
Residential Briarwood Apartments, supra, 171 Cal.App.4th at pages
1045-1046, where the
Court of Appeal found that “[a]ccording to defendants, the first
element of the claim can be resolved as a matter of law in this case, since
there is simply no evidence of outrageous conduct here. In defendants’ view,
their conduct cannot be considered outrageous, as it amounted to nothing more
than changing the lock of an apartment at the request of [their] tenant, Mobile
Medical, after [plaintiff’s employment] assignment was terminated. We reject
defendants’ contention that they have established lack of outrageousness as a
matter of law. First, as a general principle, changing the locks on someone’s dwelling
without consent to force that person to leave is prohibited by statute…Though
defendants’ agents were polite and sympathetic towards plaintiff, they
nevertheless caused her to leave her home without benefit of judicial process.
As stated in Richardson v. Pridmore:
While in the present case no threats or abusive language were employed, and no
violence existed, that is not essential to the cause of action. An eviction
may, nevertheless, be unlawful even though not accompanied with threats,
violence or abusive language. Here the eviction was deliberate and intentional. The conduct of
defendants was outrageous. They must be held responsible for the damages caused
by their deliberate and intentional acts.” (Internal quotations and citations
omitted.) As discussed, Soni states here that “the lock on front
door was changed on July 31, 2020,” and that “[w]hen I arrived at the Subject
Apartment on July 31, 2020, I was unable to gain entry into the Apartment
because the locks had been changed.” (Soni Decl., ¶¶ 26, 27.) 
The Spinks Court further found that “the record demonstrates that plaintiff was particularly
vulnerable at the time of defendants’ unlawful entry. She returned home after
reconstructive surgery, with her arm in a cast. The very next day, plaintiff
received notification that Mobile wanted her out of the premises. The day after
that, she was gone from the apartment. Plaintiff told defendants’ employees
that she was seriously injured and under doctors’ orders to use her arm as
little as possible. She informed them that she had been terminated from her employment
and had no[] other place to reside. And defendants’ onsite property manager
acknowledged that she was concerned for plaintiff’s welfare when asked to
change the locks. This evidence of vulnerability is relevant in
considering whether defendants acted outrageously.” (Spinks v. Equity Residential Briarwood Apartments, supra, 171 Cal.App.4th at p. 1046 [internal
quotations omitted].) Here, Soni states that “the lock on front
door was changed on July 31, 2020 - within two days of the date that Mr. Rust
died.” (Soni Decl., ¶ 26.) Soni further states that “[p]rior to Mr. Rust’s
death, the Priestleys were fully aware that Mr. Rust and I were married.” (Soni
Decl., ¶ 24.) 
Defendants also assert
that they “were not physically present in California at the time and did
not personally handle any of Plaintiff’s belongings in any way or make any
police reports.” (Mot. at p. 20:17-19.) But as discussed, Plaintiffs also
allege that “Defendants…locked out the wife of a legal tenant…” (Compl., ¶ 41.)
The Court notes that “[a] motion for summary
adjudication shall be granted only if it completely disposes of a cause of
action, an affirmative defense, a claim for damages, or an issue of duty.”
(Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (f)(1).) 
In light of the foregoing, the Court finds that Soni has raised
triable issues of material fact regarding the second cause of action for
intentional infliction of emotional distress. Thus, based on the foregoing, the
Court does not find that summary adjudication of the second cause of action is
warranted.
F.    
Punitive Damages Claims
In
the motion, Defendants assert that punitive damages are not warranted. However,
in the reply, Defendants appear to abandon their motion for summary
adjudication of Plaintiffs’ punitive damages claims. Specifically, Defendants
state that “Defendants acknowledge their error in requesting the
Court strike punitive damages as a separately adjudicated matter and leave the
issue to summary judgment in the entirety.” (Reply at p. 13:4-5.) As set forth
herein, Defendants’ motion for summary judgment is denied. Accordingly, the
Court denies Defendants’ motion for summary adjudication of Plaintiffs’ prayer
for punitive damages. 
G.    Claims of the
Estate 
Lastly, Defendants assert that “Plaintiff did not obtain a Court order
establishing her marriage to Mr. Rust until September 21, 2020—several weeks
after all alleged wrongdoing by Defendants occurred. Therefore, Plaintiff does
not have standing to assert any claims on behalf of the Estate of Mr. Rust in
this action. Defendants request that the Court grant Defendants’ Motion for
Summary judgment as to Plaintiff the Estate of Obalajii Khephren Rust for that
reason.” (Mot. at p. 23:4-8.) But as noted by Soni, Defendants fail to cite any
legal authority to support this assertion. 
Defendants also assert that “Plaintiff does not allege any facts
unique to the Estate; all claims are based upon Plaintiff’s experience and
interaction with Defendants, their daughter, GiGi Rust, and others at the
Priestley’s property.” (Mot. at p. 23:8-10.) Defendants assert that
accordingly, “the Estate’s claims fail for the same reasons stated herein with
regard to each of Plaintiff’s claims.” (Mot. at p. 23:10-11.) But the Complaint
does contain allegations concerning the Estate. (See, e.g., Compl., ¶¶ 14,
16, 23, 24, 25, 26, 27.) The Complaint also contains a number of allegations
concerning “Plaintiffs.” 
Based on the foregoing, the Court does not find that Defendants have met
their burden of demonstrating that the Estate’s claims fail. 
Conclusion
For the foregoing reasons, Defendants’ motion
for summary judgment is denied. 
Defendants’ motion for
summary adjudication is granted as to the fourth cause of action. 
Defendants’ motion for summary
adjudication is denied as to the first, second, and third causes of action, and
Plaintiffs’ prayer for punitive damages. 
///
///
///
Defendants are
ordered to provide notice of this ruling. 
 
DATED:  March 7, 2024                                ________________________________
Hon. Teresa A.
Beaudet
Judge, Los
Angeles Superior Court


