 Case Number:  24SMCV00980    Hearing Date:   October 17, 2024    Dept:  O Case
Name:  Overland & Overland, et
al., v. Kouyoumjian



Case No.:


24SMCV00980


Complaint Filed:


3-4-24 




Hearing Date:


10-17-24 


Discovery C/O:


N/A




Calendar No.:


11


Discovery Motion C/O:


N/A




POS:


OK


 Trial Date:


None



SUBJECT:                 MOTION FOR SANCTIONS 
MOVING
PARTY:   Plaintiffs/Cross-Defendants Law
Offices of Overland & Overland, Mark E. Overland, Courtney Overland
RESP.
PARTY:         Defendant/Cross-Complainant
Kevork Kouyoumjian 
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 
Cross-Defendants Law Offices of
Overland & Overland, Mark E. Overland, Courtney Overlands’ (collectively
“Overland”) Motion for Sanctions Pursuant to CCP § 128.7 as to
Defendant/Cross-Complainant Kevork Kouyoumjian (“Kouyoumjian’) is DENIED. 
 
Overland’s motion “is made on the
grounds that the cross-complaint is frivolous per C.C.P. §128.7(b)(2) and not
supported by existing law and filed in violation of Bus. & Prof. Code §
6068(c) (It is the duty of an attorney to “maintain those actions, proceedings,
or defenses only as appear to him or her legal or just….” (Motion for
Sanctions, filed 7-1-2024 pg. 2.)
 
Overland argues: “Counsel for
Cross-Complainant clearly violated the statutory mandate of Bus. & Prof.
Code § 6068(c) by failing to consider applicable law from the California
Supreme Court, prior to filing the Cross-Complaint. Further, counsel for
Cross-Complainant maintained this lawsuit even after counsel for
Cross-Defendants advised him of existing California Supreme Court authority
that precluded the Cross-Complaint in this case. See Declaration of Douglas G.
Gray at ¶ 4.  Specifically, Mr. Gray
informed counsel for Kouyoumjian of Wiley v. County of San Diego (1998),
19 Cal.4th 532; Coscia v. McKenna and Cuneo (2001), 25 Cal.4th 1194; and
Bird, Marella, Boxer & Wolpert v. Superior Court (2003), 106
Cal.App.4th 419. To date, Cross-Complainant’s counsel has not substantively
responded to this authority.” (Motion, pg.3)   
 
Oddly, in his sparse memorandum, Mr.
Gray does not discuss the three cases he referred to opposing counsel or
otherwise explain why he believes the holding of these cases establish the
cross-complaint is frivolous. In his declaration, Mr. Gray recites his efforts
to “meet and confer” regarding his anticipated demurrer motion for sanctions
explaining “(a) Cross-Complainant failed to state causes of action in that Kouyoumjian
failed to allege and could not prove that he was actually innocent and (b) Kouyoumjian
failed to allege and could not prove that there had been a postconviction
proceeding which exonerated him.” (Gray decl. ¶3.)  Mr. Gray also submits email correspondence
with Kouyoumjian’s counsel. Instead of responding to the defects in the
cross-complaint, Kouyoumjian’s counsel responded with a retort that Overland’s
complaint should be dismissed because Overland did not give the Kouyoumjian
notice of his right to non-binding arbitration. Still unable to persuade Kouyoumjian’s
counsel to consider the defect of the cross-complaint, Mr. Gray attempted to
conclude the meet and confer effort and reiterated his intent to file the
demurrer and pursue this motion of sanctions. To that, the named partner
representing Kouyoumjian, Shawn Shaffie, sharply responded “You want to move
for sanctions after what we keep explaining? THEN DO IT. You already have
Matthew's email response to you. Proceed at your own peril.” (Gray Decl. Ex 3.)
 
Having been unable to persuade Kouyoumjian’s
counsel to withdraw the cross-complaint, and believing a response was due, Overland
filed the demurrer to the complaint. The same day, May 31, 2024, Overland served
its motion for sanctions on Kouyoumjian’s counsel starting the 21 day safe
harbor for Kouyoumjian to avoid possible sanctions by withdrawing the
cross-complaint for malpractice or seeking other relief. The 21 days expired on
June 23, 2024.  On July 1, 2024 Kouyoumjian
filed his motion for sanctions. 
 
Instead of withdrawing the
cross-complaint, or seeking other relief, on October 1, 2024, the same day the
opposition to the demurrer was due, Kouyoumjian filed his first amended
complaint adding new claims for breach of contract in addition to the two malpractice
claims. In an effort to cure the admitted failure to allege Kouyoumjian’s prior
convictions had been exonerated, Kouyoumjian now alleges:
 
“40. Kev has
retained counsel for the purposes of obtaining exoneration in both the Van Nuys
Criminal Matter and the Airport Criminal Matter. These exoneration efforts are
ongoing and are a condition precedent to pursuing the first and second causes
of action contained herein. Cross-Defendant’s position is that this action
should be stayed pending resolution of his contest of the criminal convictions.”

 
            The law is
clear. To prevail on his claim for legal malpractice, Kouyoumjian must plead
and prove his actual innocence. Before he can do so he “must obtain
postconviction relief in the form of a final disposition of the underlying
criminal case—for example, by acquittal after retrial, reversal on appeal with
directions to dismiss the charges, reversal followed by the People's refusal to
continue the prosecution, or a grant of habeas corpus relief—as a prerequisite
to proving actual innocence in a malpractice action against former criminal
defense counsel.” (Coscia v. McKenna & Cuneo (2001) 25 Cal.4th 1194,
1205) A demurrer to such a complaint that fails to allege factual innocence and
exoneration of prior convictions must be sustained. (Id. at 1211; See, Wilkinson v. Zelen 167 Cal.App.4th 37. 49
(“[A] plaintiff in a legal malpractice action based on an attorney's handling
of a criminal action may not prevail unless he or she is factually innocent and
exonerated of criminal liability. Wilkinson [complaint] fails on both levels
and the demurrer was properly sustained.”).
 
            The law is
less clear Kouyoumjian’s failure to allege actual innocence and exoneration of his
prior convictions means his claim for malpractice is frivolous.  Nor is it clear his defective complaint must
be dismissed with prejudice. To the contrary, the Supreme Court in Coscia
concluded “the requirement of postconviction relief, as a prerequisite to
proving legal malpractice arising out of a criminal proceeding, need not result
in a technical forfeiture of legitimate malpractice claims.... Although such an
action is subject to demurrer or summary judgment while a plaintiff's
conviction remains intact, the court should stay the malpractice action during
the period in which such a plaintiff timely and diligently pursues
postconviction remedies.” (Coscia, supra, at 1207, 1210-1211; Khodayari
v. Mashburn (2011) 200 Cal.App.4th 1184, 1197. (The judgment is
affirmed insofar as the demurrer was sustained. It is reversed insofar as leave
to amend was denied. The case is remanded to the trial court with a direction
to stay the action during the period within which appellant diligently pursues
postconviction remedies.”)); Cf. Wilkinson v. Zelen, supra 167 Cal.App.4th
at 49 (“In light of the undisputed facts that are properly before the court by
way of judicial notice, Wilkinson cannot in good faith plead exoneration of all
transactionally related criminal charges and the demurrer was properly
sustained.”)
 
            Under the
circumstances of the case, the Court is not persuaded that the filing of
Kouyoumjian’s cross-complaint was frivolous under CCP 128.7. Sanctions under
Section 128.7 should only be utilized in “the rare and exceptional case where
the action is clearly frivolous, legally unreasonable or without legal
foundation, or brought for an improper purpose.” (Kumar v. Ramsey (2021)
71 Cal.App.5th 1110, 1121. In its motion, Overland did not show, by judicial
notice or otherwise, that Kouyoumjian cannot, as a matter of law, prove his
actual innocence or obtain the exoneration of his convictions. Overland’s
motion for sanctions, therefore, is denied.
 
 