 Case Number:  23STCV23934    Hearing Date:   November 14, 2024    Dept:  48  
 
 
SUPERIOR
COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



RAYMOND HOOKER, 
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
 
GENERAL MOTORS LLC,
 
                        Defendant.


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


     
  CASE NO.: 23STCV23934
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER CONTINUING PLAINTIFF’S
  MOTIONS TO COMPEL FURTHER RESPONSES
 
Dept. 48
8:30 a.m.
November 14, 2024



 
On October 2, 2023, Plaintiff
Raymond Hooker filed this action against Defendant General Motors LLC arising from
Plaintiff’s purchase of an allegedly defective vehicle.
On
February 8, 2024, Plaintiff served Request for Production of Documents (Set Two)
on Defendant.  On April 24, 2023, Defendant
served responses, which Plaintiff deemed insufficient.  After attempting to meet and confer, on May 4,
2024, Plaintiff filed a motion to compel further responses to RFP Nos. 28-29, 37-64,
67-70, 73-74 and 77-86.
FILING DEFICIENCIES
For
a motion to compel further, Plaintiff must meet and confer with Defendant and file
a Separate Statement or follow the Court’s alternative method of outlining the disputes.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.310, subd. (b); California
Rules of Court, rule 3.1345(b).)  This Department
requires the parties to follow the procedures outlined in Exhibit A of Department
48’s Courtroom Information (available on the Court’s website) and file a joint statement.  Plaintiff’s counsel’s declaration makes clear
that they did not attempt to follow Department 48’s procedures for a joint statement.
If
any party continues to electronically file noncompliant documents, the Court may
strike the filings or issue sanctions.
MOTION
TO COMPEL FURTHER RESPONSES
Plaintiff’s
meet-and-confer letters do not say much more than that Defendant’s objections are
improper.  (See Le Decl., Exs. G, L, P.)  Defendant’s responses to Plaintiff’s communication
efforts are boilerplate.  (See Le Decl., Exs.
I, K, N; see also Le Decl., Ex. H.)  This
letter-based meet-and-confer process clearly was not effective and does not demonstrate
a good faith effort to narrow down the issues. 
Accordingly, the Court will continue the hearing for submission of a Joint
Statement after a more robust meet-and-confer process.
Additionally,
Defendant objects to some RFPs on the grounds that they are duplicative of Plaintiff’s
Requests for Production, Set One, for which Plaintiff did not seek to compel further
responses.  A party who fails to meet the
time limits for a motion to compel cannot avoid the consequences of his delay and
lack of diligence by propounding the same question again.  (Professional Career Colleges, Magna Institute,
Inc. v. Superior Court (1989) 207 Cal.App.3d 490, 494.)  The Joint Statement should also address this issue
and provide the Set One RFPs that Defendant contends are duplicative.
The
separate statements are overly long and unnecessarily repeat the same arguments
in favor of each party’s position.  If the
supporting argument is the same as those for a prior RFP, the party should incorporate
the initial argument by reference in subsequent responses.  The Court expects that the Joint Statement will
be shorter than Plaintiff’s 102-page separate statement and Defendant’s 55-page
separate statement.
Plaintiff’s
forthcoming motion to compel further responses to special interrogatories suffers
from the same issues.  On its own motion,
the Court will also continue that hearing.
CONCLUSION
The
Hearing on Motion to Compel Further Discovery Responses to Request for Production
of Documents (Set Two) is CONTINUED to January 30, 2024 at 8:30 a.m.
The
Hearing on Motion to Compel Further Discovery Responses to Special Interrogatories
(Set Two) scheduled for 11/21/2024 is ADVANCED to this date and CONTINUED to January
30, 2024 at 8:30 a.m.
The
parties are ORDERED to meet and confer telephonically in a good faith effort to
narrow down the discovery issues.
The
parties are ORDERED to prepare one Joint Statement for the requests for production
and one Joint Statement for the interrogatories.  The Joint Statements must comply with Exhibit
A of Department 48’s Courtroom Information and be filed no later than 10 days before
the hearings.
Moving
party to give notice.
Parties
who intend to submit on this tentative must send an email to the Court at SMCDEPT48@lacourt.org
indicating intention to submit.  If all parties
in the case submit on the tentative ruling, no appearances before the Court are
required unless a companion hearing (for example, a Case Management Conference)
is also on calendar.
 
        
Dated this 14th day of November 2024
 




 


 




 


Hon. Thomas D. Long
Judge of the Superior
  Court
 




 