 Case Number:  22STCV37077    Hearing Date:   November 14, 2024    Dept:  48  
 
 
SUPERIOR
COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



LEAH RACHEAL EVANS, et al., 
                        Plaintiffs,
            vs.
 
38665 11TH STREET EAST, LLC, et al.,
 
                        Defendants.


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


     
  CASE NO.: 22STCV37077
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER GRANTING DEFENDANTS’ MOTION
  FOR PROTECTIVE ORDER
 
Dept. 48
8:30 a.m.
November 14, 2024



 
On November 23, 2022, Plaintiffs
Leah Racheal Evans, Bailey Amanda Ramirez, Kai Michael Ramirez, Jax Phillip Ramirez,
Lyla Amari Ramirez, Tommy Lee Jerricks, Loretta Frankie Angela Hernandez, Tremaine
Lennard Jerricks, and Priince’Trevvion Lekobe Jerricks filed this habitability action
against Defendants 38665 11th Street East LLC and Excel Residential Services Inc.
On
June 3, 2024, Plaintiffs jointly served Requests for Admission, Set One on Defendants.  Requests for Admission, Set One includes 482 RFAs
for each Defendant.  Plaintiffs also served
Form Interrogatory No. 17.1, which requests additional information for each RFA
response that is not an unqualified admission.
On
August 5, 2024, Defendants filed a motion for protective order, seeking an order
that they need not answer Plaintiffs’ Requests for Admission, Set One and the corresponding
Requests for Admission, Set One.
MULTIPLE
MOTIONS
Two
Defendants filed one motion when each Defendant was separately served with their
own set of Request for Admissions.  Each Defendant
should have filed its own separate motion, with separate filing fees and hearing
reservations.  Despite being scheduled as
only one motion and one hearing, the total substance is that of two motions.  This unfairly allows Defendants to take only one
hearing reservation (instead of two), resulting in an inaccurate projection and
accounting of the Court’s workload and inconvenience for both the court and other
litigants.  Defendants are ordered not to
do this again and are warned that continued action of this type may result in monetary
sanctions under Code of Civil Procedure section 177.5.
Defendants
are ORDERED to pay one additional filing fee within 10 days.
For
any future discovery motions, the parties must file a separate motion for each discovery
request and party, or the Court may strike or deny the motions for being improperly
filed.
PROTECTIVE
ORDER
A
party may propound more than 35 RFAs  if the
greater number is warranted by the complexity or the quantity of the existing and
potential issues in the particular case. 
(Code Civ. Proc., §§ 2033.030, 2033.040, subd. (a).)  Any party who has propounded more than 35 RFAs
to any other party must attach to each set of those RFAs a declaration stating why
the number of requests is warranted and that none of the questions are being propounded
for an improper purpose.  (Code Civ. Proc.,
§§ 2033.040, 2033.050.)  The responding party
may move for a protective order.  (Code Civ.
Proc., § 2033.090.)  “If the responding party
seeks a protective order on the ground that the number of requests for admission
is unwarranted, the propounding party shall have the burden of justifying the number
of requests for admission.”  (Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 2033.040, subd. (b).)
Plaintiffs’
counsel attached a declaration to Requests for Admission, Set One, stating:  “This number of Requests for Admission is warranted
under Section 2033.040 of the Code of Civil Procedure because of the size and complexity
of the case and the variety of theories Plaintiffs are pursuing.  There are nine (9) Plaintiffs in this action,
with five (5) causes of action, against each of the two (2) Defendants.  Each Defendant has alleged thirty-eight (38) distinct
affirmative defenses. . . . There is no doubt that it will be a long trial.  Plaintiffs’ Requests for Admission are aimed at
narrowing the issues for trial, and, for whatever issues are denied improperly,
ensuring that Plaintiffs do not have to incur the costs of any improperly denied
admissions. . . . To illustrate, in habitability cases, a central issue is notice.  A large part of Plaintiffs’ Requests for Admission
center around notice about substandard conditions, and when each Defendant acknowledges
it was received.  Given that notice is a central
issue in the case, it is proper for each Defendant to admit or deny whether they
received notice from the relevant government agencies, or whether each Plaintiff
complained about each alleged substandard condition, and to break it down by year
so the date of the acknowledged complaint is established as undisputed. . . . Further,
Plaintiffs—low-income families—are not required bear the burden of costs of proof,
and are entitled to narrow the issues or, if the issues are denied and later proven,
collect from each Defendant costs of proof for improperly denied Requests for Admission.”  (Motion, Exs. A-B, Anand Decl. ¶¶ 7-11.)  With the opposition, Plaintiffs’ counsel further
declares that to avoid objections about the RFAs being compound, Plaintiffs “are
required to list in their requests whether each Defendant admits each condition
existed, by year, whether Defendant admits receiving notice of the condition, by
year, and whether Defendant admits or denies whether Defendant abated each condition
in a permitted manner, again by its applicable time period.”  (Opposition at p. 10.)  
Defendants
argue that the 482 RFAs are burdensome, harassing, and overbroad.  RFAs should “relate to a matter that is in controversy
between the parties.”  (Code Civ. Proc., §
2033.010.)
In
this habitability action, the Plaintiffs’ allegations are virtually identical.  Plaintiffs allege that their two units have been
uninhabitable during their tenancies, with the same defects in both units.  (E.g., Complaint ¶¶ 3-4, 26.)  This action involves only two units in a building
with thirty-six units, yet many RFAs refer to the “SUBJECT PROPERTY” of the entire
building.  (Motion at pp. 4, 6-7.)  “SUBJECT PROPERTY” is defined as “the premises
identified in Plaintiffs’ complaint as the geographic location of the events and
occurrences which are the subject of Plaintiffs’ complaint, the apartment complex
located at 38665 11th St., Palmdale, CA 93550, including the apartment Units within.”  Some RFAs refer to ownership of different properties.  (Motion at p. 7 [RFA Nos. 474-481].)  Other RFAs ask Defendants to admit that they failed
to do something, followed by an identical request that adds only “without good cause.”  (See, e.g., Motion, Exs. A-B [RFA Nos. 134-135,
138-139, 142-143].)
The
number of RFAs is even more burdensome when accompanied by Form Interrogatory
No. 17.1’s request for all additional information about each denial.
Plaintiffs’
counsel also argues that the 482 RFAs equate to fewer than 54 RFAs for each of the
nine Plaintiffs.  (Opposition at p. 13.)  But propounding them in this manner means that
each of the nine Plaintiffs receive the benefit of 482 different RFAs.  Whether there is one Plaintiff or nine,  Plaintiffs must show good cause for the 482 requests.
This
is not a particularly complex case.  Plaintiffs
have not met their burden of justifying the number of RFAs in this run-of-the-mill
habitability action.  (Code Civ. Proc., §
2033.040, subd. (b); see Code Civ. Proc., § 2033.080, subd. (b)(2).)
CONCLUSION
The
motion for protective order is GRANTED without prejudice to Plaintiffs serving new
and more tailored sets of Requests for Admission that may include some of the same
RFAs.
Defendants
need not answer Requests for Admission, Set One and the corresponding Form Interrogatory
No. 17.1.  (See Code Civ. Proc., § 2033.080,
subds. (b)(1)-(2).)
Defendants
are ORDERED to pay one additional filing fee within 10 days.
Moving
party to give notice.
Parties
who intend to submit on this tentative must send an email to the Court at SMCDEPT48@lacourt.org
indicating intention to submit.  If all parties
in the case submit on the tentative ruling, no appearances before the Court are
required unless a companion hearing (for example, a Case Management Conference)
is also on calendar.
 
        
Dated this 14th day of November 2024
 




 


 




 


Hon. Thomas D. Long
Judge of the Superior
  Court
 




 