  Case Number:  20STCV37759    Hearing Date:   February 26, 2024    Dept:  X    Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Joel L. Lofton,
Department X
 
 
HEARING DATE:     February
26, 2024                                           TRIAL DATE: April 9, 2024
                                                           
CASE:                         SANDRA KIM AND
SARAH KIM v. GARFIELD MEDICAL CENTER; JAMES T. LIN, M.D., and DOES 1 through
50, inclusive.
 
CASE NO.:                 20STCV37759
 
            
 
MOTION
TO COMPEL FURTHER

 
MOVING PARTY:               Defendant James T. Lin, M.D., (“Dr.
Lin”)
 
RESPONDING PARTY:      Plaintiffs
Sandra Kim  and Sarah Kim 
 
SERVICE:                              Filed December 1, 2023
 
OPPOSITION:                       Filed February 9, 2024
 
REPLY:                                   Filed February 16, 2024
 
RELIEF
REQUESTED 
 
             Dr. Lin moves for an order
compelling Plaintiffs Sandra Kim and Sarah Kim to provide further responses to
his requests for the production of documents and interrogatories. 
 
BACKGROUND
 
             This case arises out of Plaintiffs Sandra Kim
and Sarah Kim’s (“Plaintiff”) claim that Defendants Garfield Medical Center
(“GMC”) and James T. Lin, M.D. (“Dr. Lin”) provided inadequate medical
treatment to their father Samuel Kim (“Decedent”), resulting in Decedent’s
death on August 9, 2019. Plaintiffs allege that Decedent was suffering from
Parkinson’s Disease but was taking medicine to control his diagnosis.
Plaintiffs allege that on July 22, 2019, Decedent suffered a fall while at home
and was taken to the emergency room of GMC. Plaintiffs allege that Decedent
died at GMC, where he died from complications due to sepsis and aspiration
pneumonia. 
 
            Plaintiffs filed a First Amended
Complaint (“FAC”) on December 23, 2020, alleging three causes of action for (1)
wrongful death – medical malpractice, (2) negligent infliction of emotional
distress, and (3) elder abuse and neglect. 
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 
            Dr. Lin’s
motions to compel further responses are GRANTED in part and DENIED in part. 
 
            Plaintiffs
are ordered to provide further responses to RFP numbers 1, 10, 11, 14, and 15
and interrogatories numbers 2, 9, and 10 within 20 days of the date of this
order. 
 
            All
requests for sanctions are DENIED. 
 
LEGAL STANDARD
 
On receipt of a response to discovery requests, the party requesting may
move for an order compelling further responses for interrogatories (Code Civ.
Proc. 2030.300), requests for admission (Cod. Civ. Proc. section 2033.290), and
request for production (Code Civ. Proc. section 2031.310). “Unless notice of
this motion is given within 45 days of the service of the verified response, or
any supplemental verified response, or any specific later date to which the
requesting party and the responding party have agreed in writing, the
requesting party waives any right to compel further response to the requests
for admission.” (Code Civ. Proc. section 2033.290, subd. (c).
 
DISCUSSION
 
            Dr.
Lin moves for an order compelling Plaintiffs to provide further responses to
his requests for the production of documents and interrogatories. Dr. Lin
provides that he served his discovery requests on Plaintiffs on January 20,
2023. (James Decl. ¶ 3.) On October 12, 2023, this
court granted Dr. Lin’s motion to compel discovery responses. Dr. Lin provides
that on Plaintiffs provided deficient responses on October 18, 2023. (Id. ¶
5.) 
 
            Dr. Lin separately moves to compel both Plaintiffs to
provide further responses to the discovery requests. In the court’s review of
the separate statements, the discovery requests are identical as to each
Plaintiff. 
 
            Requests for the Production of Documents
 
            RFP No. 1: Any
and all bills and invoices, etc., evidencing any claim of damages in this
action that have not been produced to date.
 
            RFP No.
10: All writings or documents of any kind that support your contention that
propounding party did not meet the requisite standard of practice in rendering
medical services to decedent, SAMUEL KIM.
 
            RFP No.
11: All writings or documents of any kind that support your contention that
any individual other than the party propounding this request for production of
documents did not meet the requisite standard of practice in rendering medical
services to decedent, SAMUEL KIM.


            RFP No.
14: Produce all medical records, reports, statements, consultations,
declarations, correspondence to or authored by any health care provider, notes
or writings of any kind relating to medical treatment provided to decedent,
SAMUEL KIM, from January 1, 2018, to the present
 
            RFP No.
15: Produce all medical records, reports, memoranda, correspondence,
statements, x-rays, radiographic studies (including, but not limited to,
MRI's), documents or writings of any kind reflecting medical treatment or
visits to any health care provider of decedent, SAMUEL KIM, from January 1,
2018 until August 9, 2019.
 
            Interrogatories
 
            Interrogatory No. 2: Please
identify with sufficient specificity for service of a subpoena all witnesses,
lay or medical, to the facts that you believe support your claim for negligence
against JAMES T. LIN, M.D.
 
            Interrogatory No. 3: Identify
with sufficient specificity to satisfy a subpoena duces tecum all physical
evidence, whether documentary or otherwise, which supports your claim for
negligence in this action.
 
            Interrogatory No. 9: Please
identify with sufficient specificity for service of a subpoena, the names of
all caregivers who assisted your father SAMUEL KIM in the last two years of his
life.
 
            Interrogatory No. 10: Please
identify with sufficient specificity for service of a subpoena, the names of
all housekeepers who assisted your father SAMUEL KIM in the last two years of
his life as identified as your deposition taken on May 7, 2021.
 
            Interrogatory No. 12: Please
identify the number of golf rounds your father SAMUEL KIM played per week in
the last year of his life.
 
            Interrogatory No. 13: Please
identify the total number of golf rounds your father SAMUEL KIM played in the
last year of his life.
 
            Interrogatory No. 14: Please
identify with sufficient specificity for service of a subpoena, the names of
all individuals who played golf with your father SAMUEL KIM over the last year
of his life.
 
            Interrogatory No. 15: Please
identify your father's golf handicap at the time of his death.
 
            Interrogatory No. 16: Did
your father's golf handicap change over the last year of his life?
 
            Interrogatory No. 17: If
your father's golf handicap changed over the last year of his life, please
identify what it was on August 9, 2018 versus August 9, 2019.
 
            Interrogatory No. 18: When
your father played golf over the last year of his life, did he use a golf cart
to play the course?
 
            Interrogatory No. 19: When
your father played golf over the last year of his life, did he walk the course
while playing it?
 
            Interrogatory No. 20: Please
identify the number of times that your father walked the golf course as opposed
to using a golf cart, over the last year of his life.
 
            Application
 
            Dr.
Lin’s motions to compel further responses is granted as to RFP numbers 1, 10,
11, 14, and 15. However, to the extent that Plaintiffs provide that all
responsive documents have been provided or that no other responsive documents
exist, Plaintiffs may state so.
 
            Dr. Lin’s
motion to compel further responses to his interrogatories is granted as to
interrogatories numbers 2, 9, and 10. Dr. Lin’s motions are denied as to
interrogatories numbers 3, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, and 20. To the
extent that Plaintiffs provide that all responsive information has been
provided or that they are unable to provide further information, Plaintiffs may
state so.
 
CONCLUSION
 
            Dr. Lin’s
motions to compel further responses are GRANTED in part and DENIED in part. 
 
            Plaintiffs
are ordered to provide further responses to RFP numbers 1, 10, 11, 14, and 15
and interrogatories numbers 2, 9, and 10 within 20 days of the date of this
order. 
 
            All
requests for sanctions are DENIED. 
 
            Moving
party to give notice. 
 
 
 
            
Dated:   February 26,
2024                                         ___________________________________
                                                                                    Joel
L. Lofton
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court


Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must send an email to the court
indicating their 
intention to submit.  alhdeptx@lacourt.org
