  Case Number:  24CHCV00404    Hearing Date:   September 30, 2024    Dept:  F47 MOTION TO DEEM
REQUESTS FOR ADMISSIONS ADMITTED
 
Motion filed on 5/31/24.
 
MOVING PARTY: Plaintiff Minaskanian Properties, LLC
RESPONDING PARTY: Defendant Marlo Richardson
NOTICE: ok
 
RELIEF REQUESTED: An order that
the truth of the matters specified in Plaintiff Minaskanian Properties, LLC’s
Request for Admissions, Set 1, be deemed admitted.  Additionally, Plaintiff requests sanctions in
the amount of $3,150.00 against Richardson and her attorneys of record, Agnes Sullivan
and Bita Goodman of the Goodman Sullivan Law Group.  
 

RULING: The motion is granted as set forth
below.  
 
SUMMARY OF FACTS & PROCEDURAL HISTORY
 
On 2/8/24, Plaintiff Minaskanian Properties, LLC
(Plaintiff) filed this unlawful detainer action against Defendants Tremendo,
LLC; Takela Corbitt, Marlo Richardson (Richardson), Greenwood & Company
Management and Greenhouse Trees, Edward Long and Brandon Watson regarding
property located at 9449 Irondale Avenue, Chatsworth, California.  Richardson answered the complaint on
4/2/24.  All other defendants are in
default.
 
On 4/15/24, Plaintiff served Richardson with Request for
Admissions, Set 1.  (Jamgotchian Decl.,
Ex.A).  When no responses were received, on
5/21/24, Plaintiff’s counsel emailed Richardson’s counsel requesting responses,
without objections, within 7 days.  (Id.,
Ex.B).  On 5/24/24, Richardson’s counsel
responded indicating that responses would be served and then Richardson’s
counsel would be substituting out of the case. 
(Id., Ex.C, D).  No
responses have been received.  (Id.,
Ex.E).  Richardson’s counsel has not
substituted out as counsel.
 
Therefore, on 5/31/24, Plaintiff filed and served the
instant motion seeking an order that the truth of the matters specified in
Plaintiff’s Request for Admissions, Set 1, are deemed admitted.  Additionally, Plaintiff requests sanctions in
the amount of $3,150.00 against Richardson and her attorneys of record, Agnes
Sullivan and Bita Goodman of the Goodman Sullivan Law Group.  Richardson has not opposed or otherwise
responded to the motion.  
 
ANAYLSIS
 
Due to Richardson’s failure to serve responses to the
subject Request for Admissions, Plaintiff is entitled to an order deeming the
matters admitted.  CCP 2033.280(b), (c).  Additionally, Plaintiff is entitled to an
award of sanctions against Richardson and Richardson’s counsel for their
failure to comply with their discovery obligations.  CCP 2033.280(c).  However, the Court finds that the $3,150.00 in
sanctions requested is excessive. 
Therefore, the Court imposes sanctions on Richards and her counsel, Agnes Sullivan and Bita Goodman of the Goodman Sullivan
Law Group, in the amount of $1,125.00 (2 hours to prepare the motion + 1
hour to prepare for and appear at the hearing multiplied by $375/hour).
 
CONCLUSION
 
The motion is granted. 
The matters in Plaintiff’s Request for Admissions, Set 1, served on Defendant
Marlo Richardson are deemed admitted.  Additionally,
sanctions are imposed on Defendant Marlo Richardson and her counsel of record, Agnes
Sullivan and Bita Goodman of the Goodman Sullivan Law Group, in the amount of
$1,125.00, payable within 30 days.
 
The Court notes that Plaintiff’s counsel has failed to
electronically bookmark the exhibits attached to the motion in violation of CRC
3.1110(f)(4).  Counsel for the parties
are warned that failure to comply with this requirement in the future may
result in matters being continued so that papers can be resubmitted in
compliance with the rule, papers not being considered and/or the imposition of
sanctions.     