 Case Number:  23GDCV00278    Hearing Date:   December 8, 2023    Dept:  E Hearing Date: 12/08/2023 – 8:30am
Case No: 23GDCV00278
Trial Date: UNSET
Case Name: CHRISTIAN NAVARRO, an individual; v. MERCEDES BENZ USA, LLC, a
Delaware Limited Liability Company, and HOUSE OF IMPORTS, INC., a California
Corporation, and DOES 1-10
TENTATIVE
RULING ON MOTION TO COMPEL ARBITRATION
Moving Party: Defendant, Mercedes-Benz USA, LLC (MBUSA
or Defendant)
Responding Party: Plaintiff, Christian Navarro
Moving Papers: Motion; Proposed Order; Request for
Judicial Notice; Ameripour Declaration; 
Opposing Papers: Opposition; Evidentiary Objections;
Serrano Declaration; Request for Judicial Notice
Reply Papers: Reply
Proof of Service Timely Filed (CRC Rule 3.1300): Ok
16/21 Court Days Lapsed (CCP 1005(b)): Ok
Correct Address (CCP §1013, §1013a, §1013b): Ok
CCP §1290.4 is not applicable.
RELIEF REQUESTED
Defendant,
MBUSA, moves the Court for an order (i) compelling Plaintiff Christian Navarro
to arbitrate all of his claims in accordance with the arbitration agreement;
and (ii) staying this action pending the outcome of arbitration.
 
Defendant alleges this
motion is authorized by the Federal Arbitration Act (FAA), 9 U.S.C. §§1-16, and
CCP §1281 et seq.
 
For the reasons set out
below, the Court’s tentative is the DENY the motion.
 
BACKGROUND
Plaintiff, Christian
Navarro, filed a Complaint on 02/09/2023. Plaintiff filed a First Amended
Complaint on 03/22/2023. On 06/23/2023, Plaintiff filed a Second Amended
Complaint (SAC).
 
The SAC alleges four
causes of action. The first three causes of action are – (1) Violation of
Song-Beverly Act – Breach of Express Warranty, (2) Violation of Song-Beverly
Act – Breach of Implied Warranty, and (3) Violation of the Song-Beverly Act
Section 1793.2. These three causes of action are alleged against Defendant,
Mercedes-Benz USA, LLC, a Delaware Limited Liability Company. The fourth cause
of action for negligent repair is alleged against Defendant, House of Imports,
Inc.
 
On 09/08/2023, this Court
granted MBUSA’s motion to strike paragraphs 63-66 of the SAC.
 
The instant motion
pertains to whether or not MBUSA, a nonsignatory to the “Retail Installment
Sale Contract – Simple Finance Charge (With Arbitration Provision)” (RISC), can
compel arbitration under the RISC when it was not a party to the RISC. 
 
The Court notes that in
MBUSA’s motion, MBUSA states that “Plaintiff filed the Third Amended Complaint
(“Complaint”) on or about June 22, 2023 against MBUSA.” (Def. Mot. p.5.)
However, this Court does not see a Third Amended Complaint on file. To this
Court, it appears as if the SAC is the operative complaint. If this is
incorrect, then the parties need to bring this up at the hearing on 12/08/2023.
 
LEGAL STANDARD – MOTION TO COMPEL
ARBITRATION
CCP
§1281.2, governing orders to arbitrate controversies, provides in pertinent
part:
On petition of a
party to an arbitration agreement alleging the existence of a written agreement
to arbitrate a controversy and that a party to the agreement refuses to
arbitrate that controversy, the court shall order the petitioner and the
respondent to arbitrate the controversy if it determines that an agreement to
arbitrate the controversy exists, unless it determines that:
(a)  
The
right to compel arbitration has been waived by the petitioner; or
(b)  
Grounds
exist for recission of the agreement.
 
(CCP
§1281.2(a)-(b).
 
Under
the Federal Arbitration Act, arbitration agreements “shall be valid,
irrevocable and enforceable, save upon such grounds that exist at law or in
equity for the revocation of a contract.” 
(9 U.S.C. section 2.) 
 
There
is a strong public policy in favor of arbitration of disputes and any doubts
concerning the scope of arbitrable disputes should be resolved in favor of
arbitration. (Moncharsh v. Heily & Blase (1992) 3 Cal.4th 1, 9
(“courts will ‘indulge every intendment to give effect to such proceedings.’”)
(quotation omitted)). (See also AT&T Mobility, LLC v. Concepcion
(2011) 563 U.S. 333, 339.)  
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
MBUSA
attaches as Exhibit 2 to the Ameripour Declaration, a “Retail Installment Sale
Contract – Simple Finance Charge (With Arbitration Provision)” (RISC). This
RISC is executed between Buyer, Christian Navarro, and Seller-Creditor, Mercedes-Benz
of Valencia.
The RISC contains an arbitration provision that
provides in relevant part: 
1.  
EITHER YOU
OR WE MAY CHOOSE TO HAVE ANY DISPUTE BETWEEN US DECIDED BY ARBITRATION AND NOT
IN COURT OR BY JURY TRIAL.


2.  
IF A DISPUTE
IS ARBITRATED, YOU WILL GIVE UP YOUR RIGHT TO PARTICIPATE AS A CLASS REPRESENTATIVE
OR CLASS MEMBER ON ANY CLASS CLAIM YOU MAY HAVE AGAINST US INCLUDING ANY RIGHT
TO CLASS ARBITRATION OR ANY CONSOLIDATION OF INDIVIDUAL ARBITRATIONS.
3.  
DISCOVERY
AND RIGHTS TO APPEAL IN ARBITRATION ARE GENERALLY MORE LIMITED THAN IN A
LAWSUIT, AND OTHER RIGHTS THAT YOU AND WE WOULD HAVE IN COURT MAY NOT BE
AVAILABLE IN ARBITRATION.
 
 
Any
claim or dispute, whether in contract, tort, statute or otherwise (including
the interpretation and scope of this Arbitration Provision, and the
arbitrability of the claim or dispute), between you and us or our employees,
agents, successors or assigns, which arises out of or relates to your credit
application, purchase or condition of this Vehicle, this contract or any
resulting transaction or relationship (including any such relationship with
third parties who do not sign this contract) shall, at your or our election, be
resolved by neutral, binding arbitration and not by a court action… 
 
(Ameripour
Decl. ¶4, Ex. 2.)
 
On
the first page of the RISC, “You” is defined as the Buyer and Co-Buyer, if any,
and “we” or “us” is defined as Seller-Creditor.
 
Here,
the Buyer is Christian Navarro, and the Seller-Creditor is Mercedes-Benz of
Valencia, who is not a party to the instant lawsuit.

MBUSA
moves to compel arbitration under the RISC despite the fact that both named Defendants
– MBUSA and House of Imports – are non-signatories to the RISC. MBUSA moves to
compel arbitration under the two theories of third party beneficiary and
equitable estoppel. 
However, this Court does not find MBUSA’s arguments on
equitable estoppel and the third party beneficiary doctrine availing in light
of: (1) Ford Motor Warranty Cases (2023) 89 Cal.App.5th 1324, rev.
granted, (Ford Motor Warranty Cases) (2) Montemayor v. Ford Motor Co.
(2023) 92 Cal.App.5th 958, rev. granted, (Montemayor) and (3) Kielar
v. Superior Court (2023) 94 Cal.App.5th 614, rev. granted. 
Although MBUSA cites to Felisilda v. FCA US LLC
(2020) 53 Cal.App.5th 486, this Court notes it is following Ford Motor
Warranty Cases, rev. granted. “Of course, the rule under discussion has no
application where there is more than one appellate court decision, and such
appellate decisions are in conflict. In such a situation, the court exercising
inferior jurisdiction can and must make a choice between the conflicting
decisions.” (Auto Equity Sales, Inc. v. Superior Court of Santa Clara County
(1962) 57 Cal.2d 450, 456.)
This Court finds that the Ford Motor Warranty Cases
are better reasoned and the instant set of facts distinguishable from Felisilda.
Ford Motor Warranty Cases and Montemayor adequately and
extensively explain why movant’s arguments on equitable estoppel and the third
party beneficiary doctrine are inapplicable and distinguishable in the instant
scenario. Movant here, MBUSA, and non-moving Defendant House of Imports, are
both not parties to the RISC in the instant case. 
Moreover, Ford Motor and Montemayor are
Second District cases, while Felisilda is a Third District case.
[This Court notes that Ford Motor Warranty Cases,
Montemayor, and Kielar v. Superior Court all state, “Review
granted. See Cal Rules of Court 8.1105 and 8.1115 (and corresponding Comment,
par. 2, concerning rule 8.1115(e)(3).”]
Defendant’s motion to compel arbitration is DENIED.
Objections
Plaintiff
asserts an objection to the Declaration of Ameripour ¶4, Ex. 2. The Court notes
that Ex. 2 in the Ameripour Declaration is the RISC.
The objections asserted by Plaintiff are: 1) Lacks
foundation and personal knowledge; 2) Irrelevant and more misleading than
probative; 3) Improper lay opinion; 4) Hearsay; 5) Authentication; 6)
Speculative and Prejudicial; and 7) This declaration improperly assumes facts
and is inadmissible speculation and conclusions.
In Reply, Defendant argues that objections to the RISC
should be overruled. Defendant cites Condee v. Longwood Management Corp,
which states in relevant part:
For purposes of a
petition to compel arbitration, it is not necessary to follow the normal
procedures of document authentication. “[T]he court shall order the petitioner
and the respondent to arbitrate the controversy if it determines that
an agreement to arbitrate the controversy exists....” (§ 1281.2) The
statute does not require the petitioner to introduce the agreement into
evidence. A plain reading of the statute indicates that as a preliminary matter
the court is only required to make a finding of the agreement's existence, not
an evidentiary determination of its validity.
 
This conclusion is
bolstered by California Rules of Court, rule 371. A petitioner must attach
a copy of the agreement to the petition, or its “provisions
... shall be set forth” in the petition. (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 371.) As
with section 1281.2, what the rule does not say is significant. (See Grupe
Development Co. v. Superior Court (1993) 4 Cal.4th 911, 921 [16
Cal.Rptr.2d 226, 844 P.2d 545] [applying doctrine of statutory
construction expressio unius est exclusio alterius].) Rule
371 does not require the petitioner to introduce the agreement into
evidence or provide the court with anything more than a copy or recitation of
its terms. Petitioner need only allege the existence of an
agreement and support the allegation as provided in rule 371. Both Longwood and
Ira David met this requirement. Once the petitioners had alleged that the
agreement exists, the burden shifted to respondents to prove the falsity of the
purported agreement.
 
If the court
determines the agreement to arbitrate exists, it should then decide the other
objections to its enforceability. Once the court has determined the
agreement exists, the court must grant the petition “unless it determines that:
[¶] (a) The right to compel arbitration has been waived by the petitioner; or
[¶] (b) Grounds exist for the revocation of the agreement.” (§ 1281.2.)
 
(Condee v.
Longwood Management Corp. (2001) 88 Cal.app.4th 215, 218-219.)
 
In Reply,
Defendant further argues that once the burden shifted to Plaintiff to prove the
falsity of the agreement, Plaintiff did not prove the falsity because there is
no evidence provided by Plaintiff by declaration or otherwise to contradict the
fact that the RISC submitted by Defendant is what Defendant purports it to be. 
 
Plaintiff’s objections are overruled.  
Request for Judicial Notice by Plaintiff
Under
Evidence Code §452:  
Judicial notice
may be taken of the following matters to the extent that they are not embraced
within Section 451:
(a) The
decisional, constitutional, and statutory law of any state of the United States
and the resolutions and private acts of the Congress of the United States and
of the Legislature of this state.
(b) Regulations
and legislative enactments issued by or under the authority of the United
States or any public entity in the United States.
(c) Official
acts of the legislative, executive, and judicial departments of the United
States and of any state of the United States.
(d) Records
of (1) any court of this state or (2) any court of record of the United States
or of any state of the United States.
(e) Rules of
court of (1) any court of this state or (2) any court of record of the United
States or of any state of the United States.
(f) The law
of an organization of nations and of foreign nations and public entities in
foreign nations.
(g) Facts and
propositions that are of such common knowledge within the territorial
jurisdiction of the court that they cannot reasonably be the subject of
dispute.
(h) Facts and
propositions that are not reasonably subject to dispute and are capable of
immediate and accurate determination by resort to sources of reasonably
indisputable accuracy.
 
(Ibid..)
 
Under Evidence Code 453:
 
The trial court
shall take judicial notice of any matter specified in Section 452 if a party
requests it and:
(a) Gives
each adverse party sufficient notice of the request, through the pleadings or
otherwise, to enable such adverse party to prepare to meet the request; and
(b) Furnishes
the court with sufficient information to enable it to take judicial notice of
the matter.
 
(Ibid.)
 
Plaintiff requests judicial notice of: 
1. The Appellate Court’s Opinion, in Martha Ochoa
v. Ford Motor Company (2023) 89 Cal.App.5th 1324, affirming the Trial
Court’s Order denying Defendant Ford Motor Company’s Motion to Compel
Arbitration is attached hereto as Exhibit 1. 
2. The Appellate Court’s Opinion, in Mark Kielar v.
Hyundai Motor America (Case No. C096773; Superior Court No. S-CV-0048230)
Certified for Publication dated August 16, 2023, that the Trial Court erred in
ordering arbitration is attached hereto as Exhibit 2. 
3. The Ninth’s Circuit, February 12, 2022, Opinion, in
Ngo v. BMW of North America, LLC et al., (9th Cir. 2022) 23 F.4th 942. attached
hereto as Exhibit 3.
Plaintiff’s requests for judicial notice are Granted. 
Defendant’s Request for Judicial Notice
Defendant
requested judicial notice of Plaintiff’s Third Amended Complaint filed on or
about June 22, 2023 which is attached to the Ameripour Declaration as Exhibit
1. 
The Court notes that while Exhibit 1 of the Ameripour
Declaration is in fact a Third Amended Complaint, the Court does not see in its
file that this TAC was filed on or about June 22, 2023. The Court does not see
any TAC filed with the Court. The Court sees on its file a SAC that was filed
on 06/23/2023. The Court will hear both parties address this issue at the
hearing.
 
 
 
 