 Case Number:  23STCV21931    Hearing Date:   April 12, 2024    Dept:  29 Defendant’s Motion
for Sanctions Pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 128.7 
 
 
Tentative
 
The motion is
granted in part.
 
Background 
 
Plaintiff Lesby Ochoa (“Plaintiff”) alleges
that she was injured on September 12, 2021, at a location near 5200 Zoo Drive
in Griffith Park when she tripped and fell on uneven and damaged pavement.  On September 12, 2023, filed the complaint in
this action against American Southwestern Railway Association, Inc.
(“Defendant”) and Does 1 through 100, asserting causes of action for general
negligence and premises liability. 
Defendant filed an answer on February 2, 2024.
 
Previously, Plaintiff, represented by
the same counsel, filed a similar complaint on October 14, 2022, seeking to
recover for what appears to be the same injury against GP Rah Enterprises Inc.
and Does 1 through 100, under Case No. 22STCV33609.  (Torres-Brito Decl., ¶ 2; Request for
Judicial Notice [“RJN”], Exh. 1.)  After
Plaintiff was informed that the sidewalk at the location on which the accident
occurred was owned and maintained by the City of Los Angeles, that case was
dismissed with prejudice on September 13, 2023. 
(Torres-Brito Decl., ¶¶ 3-4; RJN, Exh. 2.)
 
On December 6, 2023, Defendant sent a
letter to Plaintiff that (among other things) stated that there was no merit in
any claim against Defendant, requested that Plaintiff dismiss the claims in the
case against Defendant, and advised that Defendant would seek sanctions under Code
of Civil Procedure section 128.7 if Plaintiff did not do so.  (Torres-Brito Decl., Exh. G.)
 
Plaintiff did not dismiss the claims
against Defendant.
 
Defendant prepared this motion for
sanctions under Code of Civil Procedure section 128.7 and served it on
Plaintiff on February 12, 2024.  After
waiting for 21 days after service, as required by section 128.7, subdivision
(c)(1), Defendant filed the motion on March 7, 2024.
No opposition has been filed.
Legal
Standard
 
Code of Civil
Procedure section 128.7, subdivision (b), states that by presenting a pleading
or other document to the Court, an attorney (or unrepresented party):
 
“is certifying that to the best of the
person’s knowledge, information, and belief, formed after an inquiry reasonable
under the circumstances, all of the following conditions are met:
 
(1) 
It is not being presented primarily for an
improper purpose, such as to harass or to cause unnecessary delay or needless
increase in the cost of litigation.
 
(2) 
The claims, defenses, and other legal
contentions therein are warranted by existing law or by a nonfrivolous argument
for the extension, modification, or reversal of existing law or the
establishment of new law.
 
(3) 
The allegations and other factual
contentions have evidentiary support or, if specifically so identified, are
likely to have evidentiary support after a reasonable opportunity for further
investigation or discovery.
 
(4)  The denials of factual
contentions are warranted on the evidence or, if specifically so identified,
are reasonably based on a lack of information or belief.”
 
The Court may “impose
an appropriate sanction upon the attorneys, law firms, or parties that have
violated subdivision (b) or are responsible for the violation.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 128.7, subd. (c).)  “Absent exceptional circumstances, a law firm
shall be held jointly responsible for violations committed by its partners,
associates, and employees.”  (Id.,
subd. (c)(1).)
 
The sanction for
violation of subdivision (b) “shall be limited to what is sufficient to deter
repetition of this conduct or comparable conduct by others similarly situated” and
may include nonmonetary sanctions, an order to make a payment of a penalty to
the court, or “an order directing payment to the movant of some or all of the
reasonable attorney’s fees and expenses incurred as a result of the violation.”
 (Id., subd. (d).)  In addition, “[i]f warranted, the court may
award to the party prevailing on the motion the reasonable expenses and
attorney’s fees incurred in presenting or opposing the motion.”  (Id., subd. (c)(1).)  
 
Sanctions may
not, however, be awarded against a represented party for a violation of subdivision
(b)(2).)  (Id., subd. (d)(1).)
 
Section 128.7 permits
the Court to impose sanctions for a violation of any one of the requirements of
subdivision (b).  (Eichenbaum v. Alon
(2003) 106 Cal App 4th 967, 976.)  A finding of subjective bad faith is
not required; instead, the Court may sanction conduct that is objectively
unreasonable. (In re Marriage of Reese & Guy (1999) 73
Cal. App. 4th 1214, 1221.)
 
Sanctions may be
imposed if the Court concludes that a pleading was filed for an improper
purpose or was indisputably without merit, either legally or factually. (Bucur
v. Ahmad (2016) 244 Cal.App.4th 175, 189–190.) A claim is factually
frivolous if it is “not well grounded in fact” and is legally frivolous if it
is “not warranted by existing law or a good faith argument for the extension,
modification, or reversal of existing law.” (Ibid.) In either case, to
obtain sanctions, the moving party must show the party's conduct in asserting
the claim was objectively unreasonable. (Ibid.) A claim is objectively
unreasonable if “any reasonable attorney would agree that [it] is totally and
completely without merit.” (Ibid.) The Court of Appeal has noted,
however, that sanctions under section 128.7 should be made “with restraint” and
are not mandatory even when a claim is frivolous.  (Peake v. Underwood (2014) 227
Cal.App.4th 428, 448.) 
 
Section 128.7 is
modeled on Rule 11 of the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure, and so federal case
law construing Rule 11 may be persuasive in interpreting and applying section
128.7.  (Musaelian v. Adams (2009)
45 Cal.4th 512, 518, fn. 2; Guillemin v. Stein (2002) 104 Cal.App.4th
156, 168.)   
A motion
for sanctions under section 128.7 must be made separately from other motions,
and the notice must first be served but not filed; the motion may be filed only
21 days after service and only if the challenged pleading or other document is
not withdrawn. This 21-day time period is known as a “safe harbor” period and
its purpose is to permit an offending party to avoid sanctions by withdrawing
the improper pleading.  (Li v. Majestic Industry Hills LLC (2009)
177 Cal. App. 4th 585, 591.  This permits a party to withdraw a
questionable pleading without penalty, thus saving the court and the parties
time and money litigating the pleading as well as the sanctions request. (Ibid.) 
Preliminary Matters
 
The Court GRANTS Defendant’s request for judicial notice of the complaint
in Case No. 22STCV33609 (Lesby Ochoa v. GP Rah Enterprises, LLC., et al.)
and the request for dismissal with prejudice in that matter. 
 
The Court finds that Defendant has satisfied all procedural requirements
for the motion, including serving the motion but not filing it until after the
expiration of the 21-day safe harbor period.
 
Discussion
 
The Court approaches this motion with
caution and restraint, as directed by the Court of Appeal.  (See, e.g., Peake,
supra, 227 Cal.App.4th at p. 448.)  Many
defendants in civil litigation characterize the claims against them as “frivolous,”
but the Court is cognizant that actual violations of section 128.7 are (thankfully)
rare, and that a violation of section 128.7 requires a much greater showing
that simply filing and prosecuting claims that may ultimately prove to be
unsuccessful.
 
Having said that, Defendants has made out a
clear prima facie case here for a violation of section 128.7, subdivisions
(b)(2) and (b)(3).  In connection with investigation
and discovery in the prior lawsuit, Plaintiff’s counsel was made aware of two
critical facts: (1) the location of the accident; and (2) that the City of
Los Angeles, and no one else, was the sole owner of the property on which the
accident occurred and was solely responsible for the maintenance of the
sidewalk on which Plaintiff tripped. 
(Torres-Brito Decl., ¶¶ 2-9 & Exhs. B-F.)
 
From the evidence in the record, it appears
that Plaintiff and Plaintiff’s counsel acknowledged that these two critical
facts are true and, as a result, dismissed, with prejudice, their claims in the
prior lawsuit against a private concessionaire. 
(Id., ¶ 3.)  But then,
despite that acknowledgment, Plaintiff then brought this lawsuit against
another private concessionaire, who is no more responsible than the defendant
in the first lawsuit under the acknowledged facts and existing law, rather than
seeking whatever relief might be available against the responsible party (the
City).  
 
That is a strong case for a violation by
Plaintiff of section 128.7.
 
Plaintiff has not filed any
opposition.  Plaintiff did not respond to
the correspondence from Defendant that raised this issue on December 6,
2023.  During the 21-day “safe harbor”
period, Plaintiff did not dismiss the complaint.  And Plaintiff did not file anything with the
Court explaining why there was no violation of section 128.7 or otherwise asserting
that sanctions are not merited.  The
Court can certainly speculate about what arguments Plaintiff might have made,
but Plaintiff’s silence in response to the motion is deafening.  (See Evid. Code, §§ 412-413.)
 
On this record, the Court finds that Plaintiff’s
counsel violated Code of Civil Procedure section 127.8, subdivisions (b)(2) and
(b)(3), by filing the complaint in this action, and by asserting in the
complaint that Defendant is liable for the injuries she suffered, and that
Defendant owned, operated, managed, and maintained the premises at issue, despite
the actual knowledge of Plaintiff’s counsel that the injury occurred on
property that is owned and exclusively controlled and maintained by the City of
Los Angeles.
 
There is nothing in the record to support a
finding at this time that Plaintiff herself violated section 127.8, subdivision
(b), or is responsible for the violation by her counsel.
 
The Court finds that monetary sanctions are warranted and necessary
to deter repetition of this conduct or comparable conduct by others similarly
situated.  The Court sets sanctions in
the amount of $1,575, calculated based on seven hours of reasonable attorney
time incurred in presenting the motion and as a direct result of the violation,
multiplied by counsel’s reasonable billing rate of $225 per hour.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 128.7, subds. (c), (c)(1),
and (d); Torres-Brito Decl., ¶ 14 & Exh. J.)  The Court finds that this amount is
appropriate under all of the circumstances, is warranted for effective
deterrence, and is sufficient to deter repetition.
Conclusion
The Court GRANTS Defendant’s
motion for sanctions.
The Court ORDERS George G.
Mgdesyan, Esq.; Karapet Galajian, Esq.; and the Mgdesyan Law Firm, jointly and
severally, to pay monetary sanctions to Defendant in the amount of $1,575, pursuant
to Code of Civil Procedure section 128.7, within 30
days of notice. 
Moving
party to give notice.