 Case Number:  24SMCV00562    Hearing Date:   September 26, 2024    Dept:  207 TENTATIVE RULING 
 



DEPARTMENT


207




HEARING DATE


September 26, 2024




CASE NUMBER


24SMCV00562




MOTIONS


Demurrer and Motion to Strike Portions of Complaint




MOVING PARTY


Defendant Harold Weiner




OPPOSING PARTY


Plaintiff Michael Wolf dba Aquatic Life Service Co.



 
MOTIONS
 
On February 6, 2024, Plaintiff Michael Wolf, an individual doing
business as Aquatic Life Service Co. (“Plaintiff”) filed suit against Defendant
Harold Weiner (“Defendant”) alleging four causes of action for (1) breach of
oral contract; (2) promissory estoppel; (3) promissory fraud; and (4)
declaratory relief.  
 
Defendant now demurs to the first three causes of action pursuant to
Code of Civil Procedure section 430.10, subdivisions (e), (f), and (g).  Defendant also moves to strike the request
for punitive damages from the complaint.
 
Plaintiff opposes both motions and Defendant replies.
 
ANALYSIS
 
1.     DEMURRER
 
“It is black letter law that a demurrer tests the legal sufficiency of
the allegations in a complaint.”  (Lewis v. Safeway, Inc. (2015)
235 Cal.App.4th 385, 388.)  In testing the sufficiency of a cause of
action, a court accepts “[a]s true all material facts properly pled and matters
which may be judicially noticed but disregard contentions, deductions or
conclusions of fact or law.  [A court
also gives] the complaint a reasonable interpretation, reading it as a whole
and its parts in their context.”  (290
Division (EAT), LLC v. City & County of San Francisco (2022) 86
Cal.App.5th 439, 450 [cleaned up]; Hacker v. Homeward Residential, Inc.
(2018) 26 Cal.App.5th 270, 280 [“in considering the merits of a demurrer,
however, “the facts alleged in the pleading are deemed to be true, however
improbable they may be”].)
 
Further, in ruling on a demurrer, a court must “liberally construe”
the allegations of the complaint “with a view to substantial justice between
the parties.”  (See Code Civ. Proc., §
452.)  “This rule of liberal construction
means that the reviewing court draws inferences favorable to the plaintiff, not
the defendant.”  (Perez v. Golden Empire Transit Dist. (2012) 209
Cal.App.4th 1228, 1238.)   
 
In summary, “[d]etermining whether the complaint is sufficient as
against the demurrer on the ground that it does not state facts sufficient to
constitute a cause of action, the rule is that if on consideration of all the
facts stated it appears the plaintiff is entitled to any relief at the hands of
the court against the defendants the complaint will be held good although the
facts may not be clearly stated, or may be intermingled with a statement of
other facts irrelevant to the cause of action shown, or although the plaintiff
may demand relief to which he is not entitled under the facts alleged.”  (Gressley v. Williams (1961) 193
Cal.App.2d 636, 639.)
 
A.   
UNCERTAINTY
 
“[D]emurrers for uncertainty are disfavored.”  (Lickiss v. Financial Industry Regulatory
Authority (2012) 208 Cal.App.4th 1125, 1135.)  A demurrer for uncertainty will be sustained
only where the pleading is so bad that the responding party cannot reasonably
respond - i.e., he or she cannot reasonably determine what issues must be
admitted or denied, or what claims are directed against him or her.  (Khoury v. Maly’s of California (1993)
14 Cal.App.4th 612, 616.)  Where a
demurrer is made upon the ground of uncertainty, the demurrer must distinctly
specify exactly how or why the pleading is uncertain, and where such
uncertainty appears by reference to page and line numbers.  (See Fenton v. Groveland Comm. Services
Dist. (1982) 135 Cal.App.3d 797, 809.) 

 
Although Defendant argues “[t]he allegations are a mishmash of oral,
written and implied by conduct contract formation but not a one of them is
adequately pleaded[,]” Defendant does not demonstrate that any portions of the
Complaint are so bad that Defendant cannot reasonably determine what issues
must be admitted or denied or what claims are directed against him.  
 
The Court thus declines to sustain Defendant’s demurrer on the basis
of uncertainty.  
 
B.   
WHETHER THE CONTRACT IS WRITTEN, ORAL, or
IMPLIED BY CONDUCT
 
The Complaint alleges as follows:
 
9. On July 2, 2023, PLAINTIFF met with WEINER met
at the El Rincon Criollo restaurant in Culver City, California, to discuss
PLAINTIFF’S purchase of WEINER’S book of business from his aquarium design,
installation, and maintenance business (the “Business”) consisting of
approximately 63 clients. Subsequent to PLAINTIFF’S meeting with WEINER, WEINER
offered in writing to sell the Business to PLAINTIFF for the sum of $38,807.
Subsequent to their meeting and WEINER’S offer, PLAINTIFF responded in writing
that he accepted WEINER’S offer. 
 
10. On July 14, 2023, PLAINTIFF made his first
payment to WEINER for the “Pond” account from the Business. When WEINER
inquired about the status of PLAINTIFF’S attorney preparing a more formal,
written agreement, PLAINTIFF response included the statement: “Please
understand no matter what I’m buying your accounts.” 
 
11. In between July 14, 2023, and August 6, 2023,
PLAINTIFF and WEINER discussed PLAINTIFF making a downpayment to WEINER for the
purchase of the Business which would be deposited into an independent escrow.
After PLAINTIFF found an escrow company to hold the downpayment, he advised
WEINER of the same and escrow service price of $750 which PLAINITFF requested
WEINER split with him. WEINER’S response was that he did not want to pay for
the escrow and no longer wanted a downpayment. 
 
12. On August 6, 2023, WEINER wrote to PLAINTIFF
that WEINER’S last day of servicing clients in the Business would be December
31, 2023, and the cost to purchase the remaining book of business (60 clients)
would be $38,405 with nonrefundable deposit of 50% due on September 1, 2023,
and the balance paid on January 1, 2023. PLAINTIFF communicated his acceptance
to WEINER on August 7, 2023. 
 
13. On August 10, 2023, WEINER wrote to PLAINTIFF
that, contrary to their previous discussion, WEINER did not want to turnover
the Business website on October 1, 2023, and WEINER’S search engine
optimization consultant on September 1, 2023, unless PLAINTIFF provided a
downpayment. PLAINTIFF responded that he would pay the price to keep the
website operational in October, November, and December 2023, and take
possession of the same on January 1, 2024. 
 
14. On September 28, 2023, WEINER wrote PLAINTIFF
that WEINER wanted a significant, nonrefundable deposit by the end of October
2023 because WEINER was concerned about advising clients about retiring in
November 2023. PLAINTIFF responded that he was ready to purchase WEINER’S
remaining book of Business by buying portions of the book of Business every
week in December 2023 as WEINER finished work on the accounts that were being
sold to PLAINTIFF. WEINER expressed concern about PLAINTIFF retaining the search
engine optimization consultant effective December 1, 2023, which PLAINTIFF
agreed to do as well. 
 
15. PLAINTIFF is informed and believes, and based
thereon alleges, that after the September 28, 2023, exchange between PLAINTIFF
and WEINER, and by at least October 7, 2023, WEINER began advising several of
his existing clients that they would be serviced by PLAINTIFF. 
 
16. On November 21, 2023, WEINER breached his
agreement with PLAINTIFF when WEINER notified PLAINTIFF that WEINER was selling
the remaining book of Business to a third party. 
 
17. On December 28, 2023, PLAINTIFF, through
counsel, made a written demand upon WEINER for compensation due to his unlawful
conduct, but WEINER has refused and failed to respond to PLAINTIFF’S demand.
 
[…]
 
19. PLAINTIFF is informed and believes, and based
thereon alleges, that, as a result of their negotiations as described above,
PLAINTIFF, on the one hand, and DEFENDANTS, on the other hand, formed an oral
agreement by which PLAINTIFF was going to buy the entirety of WEINER’S book of
Business. 
 
20. PLAINTIFF is informed and believes, and based
thereon alleges, that, by November 21, 2023, PLAINTIFF had performed all
conditions, covenants, and promises required on its part to be performed in
accordance with the terms of the oral agreement except for those conditions,
covenants, and promises which were excused by DEFENDANTS. and/or conditions,
covenants, and promises which PLAINTIFF was prevented from performing by the
acts or omissions to act on the part of DEFENDANTS. 
 
21. PLAINTIFF is informed and believes, and based
thereon alleges that, DEFENDANTS, and each of them, have subsequently breached
the oral agreement by failing to sell PLAINTIFF the remainder of the book of
Business for the agreed-upon price and on the terms described hereinabove. 
 
22. PLAINTIFF is informed and believes, and based
thereon alleges that, by selling the book of Business to a third party,
DEFENDANTS, and each of them, have repudiated the oral agreement. 
 
23. As a direct and
proximate cause of the breach and repudiation of the oral agreement by
DEFENDANTS, and each of them, PLAINTIFF has been damaged in a sum to be proven
at trial, but in no event less than $500,000 in the form of lost profits that
would have been generated by PLAINTIFF servicing the accounts that were to be
sold to him by WEINER and DOES 1 through 20, inclusive, pursuant to said oral
agreement.

 
(Complaint
¶¶ 9-23.)
 
            Although the Complaint alleges that
following the parties’ July 2, 2023 meeting, Defendant made a written offer to
sell the book of business to Plaintiff for $38,807 and Plaintiff accepted in
writing, the essential terms of the agreement, such as the timing and amount of
payments and the terms of escrow, were incomplete, thus Plaintiff does not
allege a written agreement.  (See
Complaint ¶ 11.)
 
            Subsequently, “[o]n August 6, 2023,
WEINER wrote to PLAINTIFF that WEINER’S last day of servicing clients in the
Business would be December 31, 2023, and the cost to purchase the remaining
book of business (60 clients) would be $38,405 with nonrefundable deposit of
50% due on September 1, 2023, and the balance paid on January 1, 2023” to which
“PLAINTIFF communicated his acceptance to WEINER on August 7, 2023.”  (Complaint ¶ 12.)  Thus, the parties entered into an oral
agreement on August 7, 2023 for Plaintiff to purchase Defendant’s remaining
book of business.  (See Complaint ¶ 19.)  
 
            The parties subsequently
renegotiated various ancillary terms regarding the website (see Complaint ¶¶
20-21.)  Then, the Complaint alleges
“[o]n November 21, 2023, WEINER breached his agreement with PLAINTIFF when
WEINER notified PLAINTIFF that WEINER was selling the remaining book of
Business to a third party.”  (Complaint ¶
16.)  
 
            Thus, although some of the
allegations involve written offers, a written acceptance, and conduct in
furtherance of an agreement, the Complaint adequately alleges the parties
formed an oral contract.
 
C.   
FAILURE TO STATE A CAUSE OF ACTION
 
                                                        
i.         
First Cause
of Action – Breach of Oral Contract
 
“To prevail on a cause of
action for breach of contract, the plaintiff must prove (1) the contract, (2)
the plaintiff's performance of the contract or excuse for nonperformance, (3)
the defendant's breach, and (4) the resulting damage to the plaintiff.”  (Richman v. Hartley (2014) 224
Cal.App.4th 1182, 1186.)  
 
As discussed above, the
Complaint adequately alleges the existence of an oral contract for Plaintiff to
purchase the remainder of Defendant’s book of business for $38,405, with 50%
due on September 1, 2023, and the balance due on January 1.  (Complaint ¶ 12.)  
 
The Complaint further alleges
that Defendant breached that agreement on November 21, 2023 by selling his
remaining book of business to a third party. 
(Complaint ¶ 16.)  
 
The Complaint further alleges
that “by November 21, 2023,” the date of Defendant’s alleged breach,
“PLAINTIFF had performed all conditions, covenants, and promises required on
its part to be performed in accordance with the terms of the oral agreement
except for those conditions, covenants, and promises which were excused by
DEFENDANTS and/or conditions, covenants, and promises which PLAINTIFF was
prevented from performing by the acts or omissions to act on the part of
DEFENDANTS.”  (Complaint ¶ 20.)  
 
Finally, the Complaint
alleges, “As a direct and proximate cause of the breach and repudiation of the
oral agreement by DEFENDANTS, and each of them, PLAINTIFF has been damaged in a
sum to be proven at trial, but in no event less than $500,000 in the form of
lost profits that would have been generated by PLAINTIFF servicing the accounts
that were to be sold to him by WEINER and DOES 1 through 20, inclusive,
pursuant to said oral agreement.” 
(Complaint ¶ 23.)
 
Therefore, the Complaint adequately alleges a cause of action for
breach of oral contract.
 
                                                      
ii.         
Second Cause
of Action – Promissory Estoppel
 
“The elements of a promissory estoppel claim are (1) a promise clear
and unambiguous in its terms; (2) reliance by the party to whom the promise is
made; (3) [the] reliance must be both reasonable and foreseeable; and (4) the
party asserting the estoppel must be injured by his reliance.”  (Jones v. Wachovia Bank (2014) 230
Cal.App.4th 935, 945.)
 
Here, the Complaint alleges
that Defendant offered to sell his remaining book of business to Plaintiff for $38,405,
with 50% due on September 1, 2023, and the balance due on January 1.  (Complaint ¶ 12.)  
 
The Complaint further alleges,
“PLAINTIFF relied on the promise made by DEFENDANTS, by, inter alia,
making payments to WEINER for accounts transferred to PLAINTIFF that PLAINTIFF
has serviced, hiring an attorney to prepare a written agreement for the sale of
the book of Business, and preparing his employees to being servicing the
remainder of the accounts to be transferred as part of PLAINTIFF’S purchase of
the book of Business.”  (Complaint ¶ 26.)
 
Further, “PLAINTIFF is informed and believes, and based thereon
alleges that his reliance on the promise made by DEFENDANTS was both reasonable
and foreseeable by DEFENDANTS because, inter alia, WEINER had transferred some,
but not all accounts to PLAINTIFF, had accepted payment from PLAINTIFF, and
expected PLAINTIFF to incur legal fees in connection with the preparation of a
written agreement between the parties.” 
(Complaint ¶ 27.)
 
Finally, “As a direct and proximate result of PLAINTIFF’S reliance on
the promise made by DEFENDANTS, PLAINTIFF has been damaged in a sum to be
proven at trial, but in no event less than $500,000 in the form of lost profits
that would have been generated by PLAINTIFF servicing the accounts that were to
be sold to him by DEFENDANTS pursuant to said promise.”  (Complaint ¶ 28.) 
 
Therefore, Plaintiff adequately alleges a cause of action for
promissory estoppel.
 
                                                    
iii.         
Third Cause
of Action – Promissory Fraud
 
The elements for fraudulent
misrepresentation are “(1) the defendant represented to the plaintiff that an
important fact was true; (2) that representation was false; (3) the defendant
knew that the representation was false when the defendant made it, or the
defendant made the representation recklessly and without regard for its truth;
(4) the defendant intended that the plaintiff rely on the representation; (5)
the plaintiff reasonably relied on the representation; (6) the plaintiff was
harmed; and (7) the plaintiff's reliance on the defendant's representation was
a substantial factor in causing that harm to the plaintiff.”  (Graham v. Bank of America, N.A.
(2014) 226 Cal.App.4th 594, 605–606.)  
 
“In a promissory fraud action,
to sufficiently allege[] defendant made a misrepresentation, the complaint must
allege (1) the defendant made a representation of intent to perform some future
action, i.e., the defendant made a promise, and (2) the defendant did not
really have that intent at the time that the promise was made, i.e., the
promise was false.”  (Beckwith v. Dahl
(2012) 205 Cal.App.4th 1039, 1060.)  
 
“In California, fraud must be
pled specifically; general and conclusory allegations do not suffice.”  (Lazar v. Superior Court (1996) 12
Cal.4th 631, 645.)  “This particularity
requirement necessitates pleading facts which show how, when, where, to whom,
and by what means the representations were tendered.”  (Ibid.)  
 
“One of the purposes of the
specificity requirement is notice to the defendant, to furnish the defendant
with certain definite charges which can be intelligently met.”  (Alfaro v. Community Housing Improvement
System & Planning Assn., Inc. (2009) 171 Cal.App.4th 1356, 1384.)  As such, less specificity is required “when
it appears from the nature of the allegations that the defendant must
necessarily possess full information concerning the facts of the
controversy[.]”  (Ibid.)  “Even under the strict rules of common law
pleading, one of the canons was that less particularity is required when the
facts lie more in the knowledge of the opposite party.”  (Ibid.)
 
In addition to the specific
allegations outlined above, the Complaint alleges:
 
30. PLAINTIFF is informed and believes, and based
thereon alleges, that, by engaging in the acts described hereinabove,
DEFENDANTS, and each of them, acting through WEINER, made a promise to
PLAINTIFF regarding the sale of the book of Business to PLAINTIFF. 
 
31. PLAINTIFF is informed and believes, and based
thereon alleges, that DEFENDANTS, and each of them, did not intend to perform
this promise when they made it to PLAINTIFF. 
 
32. PLAINTIFF is informed and believes, and based
thereon alleges, that DEFENDANTS, and each of them, intended that PLAINTIFF
rely on this promise. 
 
33. PLAINTIFF is informed and believes, and based
thereon alleges, that he reasonably relied on DEFENDANTS’ promise. 
 
34. DEFENDANTS did not perform the promised act
in that DEFENDANTS, and each of them, refused to sell the remainder of the book
of Business to PLAINTIFF, but instead sold it to a third party. 
 
35. PLAINTIFF has been damaged in a sum to be
proven at trial, but in no event less than $500,000 in the form of lost profits
that would have been generated by PLAINTIFF servicing the accounts that were to
be sold to him by DEFENDANTS pursuant to said false promise. 
 
36. PLAINTIFF is informed and believes, and based
thereon alleges, that his reliance on DEFENDANTS’ promise was a substantial
factor in causing PLAINTIFF’S harm. 
 
37. PLAINTIFF is informed and believes, and based
thereon alleges, that the conduct of DEFENDANTS as described in this cause of
action constitutes “fraud” as that term is used in Civil Code § 3294 and that,
as a result, PLAINTIFF is entitled to punitive damages against DEFENDANTS and
each of them.
 
(Complaint
¶¶ 30-37.)
 
Allegations made “on information
and belief,” are insufficient to satisfy the heightened pleading requirement
“unless the facts upon which the belief is founded are stated in the
pleading.”  (Dowling v. Spring Val.
Water Co. (1917) 174 Cal.218, 221.)
 
Here, Plaintiff’s belief that
Defendant did not intend to sell his book of business to Plaintiff when the
offer was made is supported by the allegations regarding Defendant’s subsequent
repeated attempts to renegotiate the terms of the sale, and ultimate sale to a
third party.  
 
Further, Plaintiff’s belief
that Defendant intended Plaintiff to rely upon the false promise is supported
by the allegations that in reliance on the promise, and at Defendant’s request,
Plaintiff paid to keep the website operational for October, November, and
December of 2023.
 
Therefore, the Complaint
alleges a cause of action for promissory fraud with requisite specificity.  
 
2.     MOTION
TO STRIKE
 
Any party, within the time allowed to respond to a pleading, may serve
and file a motion to strike the whole pleading or any part thereof.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 435, subd. (b)(1); Cal.
Rules of Court, rule 3.1322, subd. (b).) 
On a motion to strike, the court may: (1) strike out any irrelevant,
false, or improper matter inserted in any pleading; or (2) strike out all or
any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of
California, a court rule, or an order of the court.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 436, subd. (a)-(b); Stafford v. Shultz (1954) 42 Cal.2d 767,
782.)  Here, Chan moves to strike from the complaint,
references to and claims for punitive damages. 
  
 
In ruling on a motion to strike punitive damages, “judges read
allegations of a pleading subject to a motion to strike as a whole, all parts
in their context, and assume their truth.” 
(Clauson v. Superior Court
(1998) 67 Cal.App.4th 1253, 1255.)  To
state a prima facie claim for punitive damages, a plaintiff must allege the
elements set forth in the punitive damages statute, Civil Code section 3294.  (College
Hosp., Inc. v. Superior Court (1994) 8 Cal.4th 704, 721.)  Per Civil Code section 3294, a plaintiff must
allege that the defendant has been guilty of oppression, fraud, or malice.  (Civ. Code, § 3294, subd. (a).)   As set forth in the Civil Code, 
 
(1) “Malice” means conduct which is intended
by the defendant to cause injury to the plaintiff or despicable conduct which
is carried on by the defendant with a willful and conscious disregard
of the rights or safety of others.  (2)
“Oppression” means despicable conduct that subjects a person to cruel and
unjust hardship in conscious disregard of that person's rights.  (3) “Fraud” means an intentional
misrepresentation, deceit, or concealment of a material fact known to the
defendant with the intention on the part of the defendant of thereby depriving
a person of property or legal rights or otherwise causing injury.
 
(Civ.
Code, § 3294, subd. (c)(1)-(3), emphasis added.)  
 
Further, a plaintiff must assert facts with specificity to support a
conclusion that a defendant acted with oppression, fraud or malice.  To wit, there is a heightened pleading
requirement regarding a claim for punitive damages.  (See Smith v. Superior Court (1992) 10
Cal.App.4th 1033, 1041-1042.)  “When
nondeliberate injury is charged, allegations that the defendant’s conduct was
wrongful, willful, wanton, reckless or unlawful do not support a claim for
exemplary damages; such allegations do not charge malice.  When a defendant must produce evidence in
defense of an exemplary damage claim, fairness demands that he receive adequate
notice of the kind of conduct charged against him.” (G. D. Searle & Co.
v. Superior Court (1975) 49 Cal.App.3d 22, 29 [cleaned up].)  In Anschutz Entertainment Group, Inc. v.
Snepp, the Court of Appeal noted that the plaintiffs’ assertions related to
their claim for punitive damages were “insufficient to meet the specific
pleading requirement.”  (Anschutz
Entertainment Group, Inc. v. Snepp (2009) 171 Cal.App.4th 598, 643
[plaintiffs alleged “the conduct of Defendants was intentional, and done
willfully, maliciously, with ill will towards Plaintiffs, and with conscious
disregard for Plaintiff's rights. Plaintiff's injuries were exacerbated by the
malicious conduct of Defendants. Defendants' conduct justifies an award of
exemplary and punitive damages”]; see also Grieves
v. Superior Court (1984) 157 Cal.App.3d 159, 166 [“The mere allegation an
intentional tort was committed is not sufficient to warrant an award of
punitive damages.  Not only must there be
circumstances of oppression, fraud, or malice, but facts must be alleged in the
pleading to support such a claim”].)  
 
Here, as discussed above, Plaintiff has alleged facts with requisite
specificity to state a cause of action for fraud against Defendant.  As such, the Court finds that the allegations
adequately support a claim for punitive damages.    
 
CONCLUSION AND ORDER
 
For the reasons stated, the Court overrules Defendant’s Demurrer to
the Complaint in its entirety and denies Defendant’s Motion to Strike in its
entirety.  
 
Further, the Court orders Defendant to file and serve an Answer to the
Complaint on or before October 18, 2024. 

 
Further, on the Court’s own motion, the Court continues the Case
Management Conference to January 27, 2025 at 8:30 A.M. in Department 207.  All parties shall comply with California
Rules of Court, rules 3.722, et seq., regarding Initial and Further Case
Management Conferences.  In particular,
all parties shall adhere to the duty to meet and confer (Rule 3.724) and to the
requirement to prepare and file Case Management Statements (Rule 3.725).  
 
Defendant shall provide notice of the Court’s ruling and file the
notice with a proof of service forthwith. 

 
 
DATED:  September 26, 2024                                               ___________________________
                                                                                          Michael
E. Whitaker
                                                                                          Judge
of the Superior Court