 Case Number:  23STCV30533    Hearing Date:   September 26, 2024    Dept:  207 TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPARTMENT


207




HEARING DATE


September 26, 2024




CASE NUMBER


23STCV30533




MOTIONS


Applications to Be Admitted Pro Hac Vice




MOVING PARTIES


Jessica Fuller and Stephen Steele, counsel for Defendants
  Unto Infinity LLC; Siri Singh Sahib of Sikh Dharma; Siri Singh Sahib
  Corporation; Sikh Dharma International; 3Ho Foundation International; and
  Kundalini Research Institute




OPPOSING PARTY


(none)



 
 
MOTIONS
 
Jessica Fuller (“Fuller”) and Stephen Steele (“Steele”) (together,
“Counsel”) each move for a court order allowing them to appear as counsel pro
hac vice for Defendants Unto Infinity LLC; Siri Singh Sahib of Sikh Dharma;
Siri Singh Sahib Corporation; Sikh Dharma International; 3Ho Foundation
International; and Kundalini Research Institute (“Defendants”) in this action.  The applications are unopposed.
 
ANALYSIS
 
            California Rules of Court rule 9.40
provides that an attorney in good standing in another jurisdiction may apply to
appear as counsel pro hac vice in the State of California by filing a verified
application together with proof of service by mail of a copy of the application
and notice of hearing on all parties who have appeared in the case and on the
State Bar of California at its San Francisco office, with payment of a $50.00
fee, so long as that attorney is not a resident of the State of California, and
is not regularly engaged in substantial business, professional, or other
activities in the State of California. (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 9.40.)
 
The application must state: (1) the applicant’s residence and office
addresses; (2) the courts to which the applicant has been admitted to practice
and the dates of admission; (3) that the applicant is a member of good standing
in those courts; (4) that the applicant is not currently suspended or disbarred
in any court; (5) the title of each court and cause in which the applicant has
filed an application to appear as counsel pro hac vice in this state in the
preceding two years, the date of each application, and whether or not it was
granted; and (6) the name, address, and telephone number of the active member
of the State Bar of California who is attorney of record in the local action.
(Cal. Rules of Court, rule 9.40(d).)
 
            The Court finds that the verified
applications include all of the above information.  Further, the applications indicate the $50
fee was paid to the State Bar through the Admissions Application Portal.  (Fuller Decl. ¶ 10; Steele Decl. ¶ 10; Acosta
Decl. ¶ 4.)  
 
With regard to notice on to the State Bar, however, Fuller and Steele
indicate the State Bar was electronically served with the verified applications
and notices of hearing through the admissions applicant portal.  (Acosta Decl. ¶ 4; Fuller Decl. ¶ 10; Steele
Decl. ¶ 10.)   
 
However, this is insufficient to demonstrate compliance with California Rules of Court, Rule
9.40(c).  Rule 9.40(c)(1) provides:  “A person desiring to appear as counsel pro
hac vice in a superior court must file with the court a verified application
together with proof of service by mail in accordance with Code of
Civil Procedure section 1013a of a copy of the application and of the notice of
hearing of the application on all parties who have appeared in the cause and on
the State Bar of California at its San Francisco office. The notice of hearing
must be given at the time prescribed in Code of Civil Procedure section 1005
unless the court has prescribed a shorter period.”   (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 9.40(c)(1),
emphasis added.)  
 
Here, there is no proof of
service indicating the State Bar was served with notice of the hearing by mail
as required.  
 
CONCLUSION AND ORDER 
 
Therefore, the Court continues
the hearings to October 31, 2024 at 8:30 A.M. in Department 207 to permit each
Counsel to effectuate proper service on the State Bar of California by mail at
its San Francisco office.
 
Each Counsel shall provide
notice of their continued hearing and file the notices with proofs of service
forthwith.
 
DATED: September 26, 2024                                                 ___________________________
Michael E. Whitaker
                                                                                          Judge
of the Superior Court
 