  Case Number:  23SMCV02791    Hearing Date:   September 26, 2024    Dept:  207 TENTATIVE RULING 
 



DEPARTMENT


207




HEARING DATE


September 26, 2024




CASE NUMBER


23SMCV02791




MOTION


Motion for Leave to Amend Complaint




MOVING PARTY


Plaintiff Kimberly Tucker




OPPOSING PARTY


Defendant City National Bank, N.A.



 
BACKGROUND
 
Plaintiff Kimberly Tucker’s (“Plaintiff”) business entity previously
filed suit against Defendant City National Bank, N.A., alleging (1) race and
color discrimination; (2) retaliation; (3) failure to prevent discrimination
and retaliation; (4) unfair business practices; (5) intentional infliction of
emotional distress; and (6) fraud and deceit for allegedly discriminating
against it three times in five years for exercising its “freedom of speech” by
“making a complaint about being mistreated.” 
(See LAX Snak Trak Vending v. City National Bank, Los Angeles
Superior Court Case No. 23STCV00130.) 
The Court sustained Defendant’s unopposed demurrer to that complaint
with leave to amend, on the basis that it was uncertain, and noted that
Plaintiff cannot appear or file pleadings in pro per on behalf of the
business, which can only be represented by a licensed attorney.  (Case No. 23STCV00130, May 11, 2023 Minute
Order.)  Upon the entity’s failure to
timely amend, the Court granted Defendant’s ex parte application to
dismiss for failure to prosecute.
 
On June 22, 2023, Plaintiff brought the instant action in an
individual capacity, alleging three causes of action for (1) discrimination;
(2) retaliation re a complaint; and (3) unlawful business practices, stemming
from Defendant’s alleged racial discrimination in denying Plaintiff a business
and CD account and retaliation for Plaintiff’s prior complaints of unfair
treatment.
 
On December 13, 2023, the Court overruled Defendant’s demurrer on the
basis of uncertainty, finding that the first two causes of action appeared to
be brought under the Unruh Act, but sustained Defendant’s demurrer to all three
causes of action on the grounds that they failed to state facts sufficient to
constitute a cause of action.  In light
of the additional allegations Plaintiff represented she could add to the
Complaint to cure the deficiencies identified by the Court, the Court granted
Plaintiff leave to amend the Complaint “in conformance with the Court’s ruling
on or before January 17, 2024.”
 
On January 16, 2024, Plaintiff filed the First Amended Complaint,
which alleges eight causes of action for (1) Violation of the Unruh Act; (2)
Violation of the Unruh Act; (3) Violation of Unfair Competition Law; (4)
Intentional Interference with Prospective Business Advantage; (5) Negligent
Interference with Prospective Business Advantage; (6) Gross Negligence; (7)
Negligent Infliction of Mental and Emotional Distress; and (8) Intentional
Infliction of Mental and Emotional Distress.  
 
On May 16, 2024, the Court sustained Defendant’s demurrer to the
second cause of action and struck Defendant Chad Gordon, the fourth through
eighth cause of action, and the claims for punitive damages and attorneys’ fees
for not being drawn in conformance with the Court’s December 13, 2023 ruling.  Thus, as of May 16, 2024, the operative First
Amended Complaint alleges only the first cause of action for violation of the
Unruh Act and the third cause of action for violation of the Unfair Competition
Law.
 
Subsequent to that hearing, Plaintiff retained counsel.  On July 30, 2024, the Court denied
Plaintiff’s motion for leave to amend the complaint without prejudice for
failure to strictly comply with the procedural requirements of California Rules
of Court, rule 3.1324.
 
Plaintiff now moves again for leave to amend the complaint to allege
nine causes of action for (1) violation of the Unruh Act; (2) race
discrimination (in violation of 42 U.S.C. 1981); (3) violation of Business and
Professions Code 17500 et seq.; (4) negligence per se; (5) negligence
per se; (6) negligence per se; (7) negligence (failure to train); (8) negligent
infliction of mental and emotional distress; (9) intentional infliction of
mental and emotional distress and to add City National Corporation and Chad
Gordon as Defendants.  
 
Defendants oppose the motion for leave and Plaintiff replies.
 
LEGAL
STANDARD
 
Amendments
to Pleadings: General Provisions
 
            Under Code of Civil Procedure
section 473, subdivision (a)(1), “The court may, in furtherance of justice, and
on any terms as may be proper, allow a party to amend any pleading or
proceeding by adding or striking out the name of any party, or by correcting a
mistake in the name of a party, or a mistake in any other respect; and may,
upon like terms, enlarge the time for answer or demurrer. The court may
likewise, in its discretion, after notice to the adverse party, allow, upon any
terms as may be just, an amendment to any pleading or proceeding in other
particulars; and may upon like terms allow an answer to be made after the time
limited by this code.”
 
            To wit, without notice to the other
party the Court has wide discretion to allow either party (i) to add or strike
the name of a party or (ii) to correct a mistake in the name of a party or a
mistake in any other respect “in furtherance of justice” and “on any terms as
may be proper.” (See Code Civ. Proc., § 473, subd. (a)(1); see also Marriage
of Liss (1992) 10 Cal.App.4th 1426, 1429.) Alternatively, after notice to
the other party, the Court has wide discretion to allow either party to amend
pleadings “upon any terms as may be just.” (See Code Civ. Proc., § 473,
subd. (a)(1). Similarly, Code of Civil Procedure section 576 states “Any judge,
at any time before or after commencement of trial, in the furtherance of
justice, and upon such terms as may be proper, may allow the amendment of any
pleading or pretrial conference order.”
 
            Judicial policy favors resolution of
all disputed matters between the parties and, therefore, leave to amend is
liberally granted. (Berman vs. Bromberg (1986) 56 Cal.App.4th 936, 945; Hirsa
v. Superior Court (1981) 118 Cal.App.3d 486, 488-489 [this has been an
established policy in California since 1901] (citing Frost v. Whitter
(1901) 132 Cal. 421, 424; Thomas v. Bruza (1957) 151 Cal.App.2d 150,
155).) The Court of Appeal in Morgan v. Superior Court held “If the
motion to amend is timely made and the granting of the motion will not
prejudice the opposing party, it is error to refuse permission to amend and
where the refusal also results in a party being deprived of the right to assert
a meritorious cause of action or a meritorious defense, it is not only error
but an abuse of discretion.” (Morgan v. Superior Court (1959) 172
Cal.App.2d 527, 530, citations omitted.) Moreover, “it is an abuse of
discretion for the court to deny leave to amend where the opposing party was
not misled or prejudiced by the amendment.” (Kittredge Sports Co. v.
Superior Court (1989) 213 Cal.App.3d 1045, 1048 [opposing party did not
establish harm by the delay in moving to amend the complaint].)
 
            “The court may grant leave to amend
the pleadings at any stage of the action.” (Weil & Brown, Cal. Practice
Guide: Civil Procedure Before Trial (The Rutter Group 2024) ¶ 6:636 (hereafter
Weil & Brown).) Denial of a motion to amend is rarely justified if the
motion is timely made and granting the motion will not prejudice the opposing
party. (Id. at ¶ 6:639, citations omitted.) However, if the party
seeking the amendment has been dilatory, and the delay has prejudiced the
opposing party, the judge has discretion to deny leave to amend. (Id. at
¶ 6:655, citations omitted. Absent prejudice, any claimed delay alone is not
grounds for denial. “If the delay in seeking the amendment has not misled or
prejudiced the other side, the liberal policy of allowing amendments prevails.
Indeed, it is an abuse of discretion to deny leave in such a case even if
sought as late as the time of trial. (Id. at ¶ 6:653 (citing Higgins
v. Del Faro (1981) 123 Cal.App.3d 558, 564-565).) “Prejudice exists where
the amendment would result in a delay of trial, along with loss of critical
evidence, added costs of preparation, increased burden of discovery, etc. . . .
But the fact that the amendment involves a change in legal theory which would
make admissible evidence damaging to the opposing party is not the kind of
prejudice the court will consider.” (Weil & Brown, supra, at
¶ 6:656, citations omitted.)
 
            “Even if some prejudice is shown,
the judge may still permit the amendment but impose conditions, as the Court is
authorized to grant leave ‘on such terms as may be proper.’” (Weil &
Brown, supra, at ¶ 6:663, citation omitted.) For example, the court
may cause the party seeking the amendment to pay the costs and fees incurred in
preparing for trial. (Id. at ¶ 6:664 (citing Fuller v. Vista Del
Arroyo Hotel, 42 Cal.App.2d 400, 404).)
 
California
Rules of Court, rule 3.1324: Procedural Requirements
 
            Pursuant to California Rules of
Court, rule 3.1324(a), a motion to amend a pleading before trial must:
 
“(1) Include a copy of the proposed amendment or
amended pleadings, which must be serially numbered to differentiate it from
previous pleadings or amendments;
(2) state what allegations in the previous
pleading are proposed to be deleted, if any, and where, by page, paragraph, and
line number, the deleted allegations are located; and
(3) State what allegations are proposed to be
added to the previous pleading, if any, and where, by page, paragraph, and line
number, the additional allegations are located.”
 
            In addition, under Rule 3.1324(b), a
motion to amend a pleading before trial must be accompanied by a separate
declaration that specifies the following:
 
“(1) the effect of the amendment;
(2) why the amendment is necessary and proper;
(3) when the facts giving rise to the amended
allegations were discovered; and
(4) the reasons why the request for amendment was
not made earlier.”
 
DISCUSSION
 
            In support of the motion, Plaintiff
has provided two Declarations of Girma H. Gebriel, one of which attaches a
redlined copy of the proposed Second Amended Complaint, and the second of which
outlines the effect of the proposed amendment, why the amendment is necessary
and proper, when the facts giving rise to the amended allegations were
discovered, and the reasons the request for amendment was not made earlier for
each allegation Plaintiff proposes to add.
 
            In opposition, Defendant points out
that the “redlined” copy of the proposed Second Amended Complaint contains the
proposed additions in red, but does not demonstrate what allegations are
proposed to be deleted, as is required by Rule 3.1324(a)(2).
 
            The Court further notes that there
have been other changes made to the proposed second amended complaint that are
not notated or otherwise supported.  For
example, the third cause of action alleged in the operative first amended
complaint is for “violation of unfair competition law” pursuant to Business
& Professions Code sections 17200 et seq., whereas the third cause
of action alleged in the proposed second amended complaint is for “violation of
Business and Professions Code 17500 et seq.”   As another
example, Plaintiff’s First Cause of action asserted in the operative amended
complaint contains a paragraph 27 which alleges fraud, malice and oppression.  Yet in the proposed Second Amended Complaint,
Plaintiff’s First Cause of Action does not contain a paragraph 27 or similar
allegations as the operative claim.  
 
            In short, without a complete and
accurate redline or other recitation of all proposed additions and deletions, or
a detailed declaration outlining the additions and deletions between the
operative complaint and the proposed amended complaint, the Court cannot analyze
whether it is appropriate to grant Plaintiff leave to make all the proposed
changes to the complaint.
 
CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
 
            Therefore, the Court denies
Plaintiff’s motion for leave to amend without prejudice for failure to comply
with the procedural requirements of Rule 3.1324.  
 
            The Court orders Plaintiff to
provide notice of the Court’s ruling and file the notice with a  proof of service forthwith.
 
 
 
 
DATED:  September 26, 2024                       ___________________________
                                                                  Michael
E. Whitaker
                                                                  Judge
of the Superior Court
 