 Case Number:  23SMCV04868    Hearing Date:   September 26, 2024    Dept:  207 TENTATIVE RULING 
 



DEPARTMENT


207




HEARING DATE


September 26, 2024




CASE NUMBER


23SMCV04868




MOTION


Demurrer to Cross-Complaint




MOVING PARTIES


Cross-Defendants Stephen R. Hofer, Stephen R. Hofer Law
  Corporation and Aerlex Tax Services, LLC




OPPOSING PARTY


Cross-Complainant Vicky Boladian



 
MOTION
 
This case arises from a dispute between former business partners.  Plaintiffs Stephen R. Hofer (“Hofer”);
Stephen R. Hofer Law Corporation d/b/a Aerlex Law Group (“ALG”); Aerlex Tax
Services, LLC (“ATS LLC”); and Aerlex Tax Services, LLP (“ATS LLP”) (ATS LLC
and ATS LLP will be referenced as “ATS”) (collectively, “Plaintiffs”) brought
suit against Defendants Vicky Boladian (“Boladian”) and Boladian Aviation Law
Group, APC (“BALG”) (collectively, “Defendants”) alleging thirteen causes of
action: (1) breach of contract – settlement agreement; (2) breach of contract –
operating agreement and buy-sell agreement; (3) breach of implied covenant of
good faith and fair dealing; (4) breach of fiduciary duty; (5) intentional
misrepresentation; (6) fraud in the inducement; (7) wrongful dissociation; (8)
conversion; (9) intentional interference with contractual relations; (10)
computer data access and fraud act; (11) receiving stolen property; (12)
unlawful business practices; and (13) declaratory relief.
 
Boladian’s operative first amended cross complaint (“FACC”) alleges
five causes of action for (1) express contractual indemnity; (2) implied
contractual indemnity; (3) equitable indemnity; (4) breach of contract; and (5)
breach of fiduciary duty against all Plaintiffs.
 
Plaintiffs now demur to all causes of action in the FACC pursuant to
Code of Civil Procedure section 430.10, subdivisions (e) and (f).  Boladian opposes the Demurrer and Plaintiffs
reply.
 
REQUEST
FOR JUDICIAL NOTICE
 
            Plaintiffs request judicial notice
of the parties’ September 22, 2020 settlement agreement, as alleged in the
Cross-Complaint.
 
“Judicial notice may not be taken of any matter unless authorized or
required by law.”  (Evid. § 450.)  Evidence Code, section 452 outlines the
matters of which a Court may take judicial notice as follows:
 
(a)   The
decisional, constitutional, and statutory law of any state of the United States
and the resolutions and private acts of the Congress of the United States and
of the Legislature of this state.
 
(b)   Regulations
and legislative enactments issued by or under the authority of the United
States or any public entity in the United States.
 
(c)   Official
acts of the legislative, executive, and judicial departments of the United
States and of any state of the United States.
 
(d)   Records
of (1) any court of this state or (2) any court of record of the United States
or of any state of the United States.
 
(e)   Rules
of court of (1) any court of this state or (2) any court of record of the
United States or of any state of the United States.
 
(f)    The
law of an organization of nations and of foreign nations and public entities in
foreign nations.
 
(g)   Facts
and propositions that are of such common knowledge within the territorial
jurisdiction of the court that they cannot reasonably be the subject of
dispute.
 
(h)   Facts
and propositions that are not reasonably subject to dispute and are capable of
immediate and accurate determination by resort to sources of reasonably
indisputable accuracy.
 
            In support of the request,
Plaintiffs cite to Ingram v. Flippo (1999) 74 Cal.App.4th 1280
(hereafter Ingram), where the court took judicial notice of a letter and
media release made by a District Attorney. 
Specifically, the court found judicial notice proper under Evidence Code
section 452, subdivision (h) for three reasons: (1) “the complaint excerpted
quotes from the letter and summarized parts of it in some detail[,] (2) “both
sides referred to the letter and quoted from it[,]” and (3) the appellant did
not oppose the request.  (Id. at
p. 1285, fn. 3.)  
 
However, unlike a letter and media release made by a District
Attorney, which appear to be public records and therefore capable of immediate
and accurate determination by resort to sources of reasonably indisputable
accuracy (public government records), private contracts and agreements between
parties are not capable of immediate and accurate determination by resort to
sources of reasonably indisputable accuracy. 

 
            Plaintiffs also cite to Align
Tech., Inc. v. Tran (2009) 179 Cal.App.4th 949, 956, fn. 6 (hereafter Align);
Performance Plastering v. Richmond Am. Homes of Cal., Inc. (2007) 153
Cal.App.4th 659, 666, fn. 2 (hereafter Performance Plastering);
and Fontenot v. Wells Fargo, N.A. (2011) 198 Cal.App.4th 256, 264
(hereafter Fontenot).
 
            In Fontenot, the appellate
court affirmed the trial court’s taking judicial notice not only of the
existence and recordation of real property records whose authenticity was not
challenged, but also the parties, dates, legal consequences and effects of
those records, including that the deed of trust listed a particular entity as the
beneficiary (but not that it was in fact still the beneficiary.)  The appellate court reasoned, “The official
act of recordation and the common use of a notary public in the execution of
such documents assure their reliability, and the maintenance of the documents
in the recorder's office makes their existence and text capable of ready
confirmation, thereby placing such documents beyond reasonable dispute.”  (Fontenot v. Wells Fargo Bank, N.A.
(2011) 198 Cal.App.4th 256, 264–265.)  By
contrast, the settlement agreement here is neither recorded nor notarized, and
therefore distinguishable from the real property records in Fontenot.
 
In Align, the court took judicial notice
of pleadings from a prior lawsuit and two federal lawsuits Align had filed
against one of the defendants, as well as the parties’ prior settlement
agreement, which “resulted in the dismissal of the prior suit,” and determined
that the claims being asserted were properly subject to demurrer because they
were compulsory cross-claims in the prior actions.  
 
            Similarly, in Performance
Plastering, the court took judicial notice of two settlement agreements
that were attached to the opposition to the demurrer, notwithstanding that they
went beyond the four corners of the complaint because “there is and can be no
factual dispute concerning the contents of the agreements.”  (Performance Plastering, supra,
153 Cal.App.4th at p. 666, fn. 2.)  Specifically,
the Court noted that, despite the complaint’s allegations, plaintiff CalFarm,
the subcontractor’s insurer, was clearly not a party to, nor even mentioned in
the underlying settlement agreements upon which it was suing for breach of
contract.  
 
            As a threshold matter, the Court is
not convinced that the parties’ private settlement agreement here is “capable
of immediate and accurate determination by resort to sources of reasonably
indisputable accuracy” as the statute requires before the Court may take
judicial notice of it.
 
Moreover, Plaintiffs do not request the Court to take judicial notice
of the underlying settlement agreement to make a simple determination as to
whether Boladian’s claims were clearly encompassed by a prior lawsuit or whether
Boladian was even a party to the agreement upon which she is suing for breach.  Rather, Plaintiffs request that the Court
conduct an in-depth analysis of the contractual terms and do the following:
 
(1)
make a determination that “Boladian was not personally the beneficiary of each
and every one” of the terms, and specifically “not the express terms that
related to the marketing of ATS” (Demurrer at p. 5); 
 
(2) accept
the truth of various statements contained therein that Boladian performed legal
work for ALG as a contract attorney as proof that “ATS was a tax representative,
not a law firm” (Demurrer at p. 7); 
 
(3) find
that ALG’s sole contractual obligations to ATS with respect to
marketing/advertising were to post a link on its website to ATS’s website,
which did not give rise to a fiduciary duty; and 
 
(4) make
a finding that Boladian filed the cross-complaint without satisfying the
condition precedent of “first proceeding through each step of the dispute
resolution process” as required in the settlement agreement (Demurrer at pp.
8-9.) 
 
But “The hearing on demurrer may not be turned into a contested
evidentiary hearing through the guise of having the court take judicial notice
of documents whose truthfulness or proper interpretation are disputable.”  (Joslin v. H.A.S. Ins. Brokerage
(1986) 184 Cal.App.3d 369, 374.)  
 
The Court thus declines Plaintiff’s invitation to engage in a protracted
evidentiary hearing about the specific terms of the settlement agreement at the
pleadings stage and therefore denies the request for judicial notice.
 
ANALYSIS
 
1.     DEMURRER
 
“It is black letter law that a demurrer tests the legal sufficiency of
the allegations in a complaint.”  (Lewis v. Safeway, Inc. (2015)
235 Cal.App.4th 385, 388.)  In testing the sufficiency of a cause of
action, a court accepts “[a]s true all material facts properly pled and matters
which may be judicially noticed but disregard contentions, deductions or
conclusions of fact or law.  [A court
also gives] the complaint a reasonable interpretation, reading it as a whole
and its parts in their context.”  (290
Division (EAT), LLC v. City & County of San Francisco (2022) 86
Cal.App.5th 439, 450 [cleaned up]; Hacker v. Homeward Residential, Inc.
(2018) 26 Cal.App.5th 270, 280 [“in considering the merits of a demurrer,
however, “the facts alleged in the pleading are deemed to be true, however
improbable they may be”].)
 
Further, in ruling on a demurrer, a court must “liberally construe”
the allegations of the complaint “with a view to substantial justice between
the parties.”  (See Code Civ. Proc., §
452.)  “This rule of liberal construction
means that the reviewing court draws inferences favorable to the plaintiff, not
the defendant.”  (Perez v. Golden Empire Transit Dist. (2012) 209
Cal.App.4th 1228, 1238.)   
 
In summary, “[d]etermining whether the complaint is sufficient as
against the demurrer on the ground that it does not state facts sufficient to
constitute a cause of action, the rule is that if on consideration of all the
facts stated it appears the plaintiff is entitled to any relief at the hands of
the court against the defendants the complaint will be held good although the
facts may not be clearly stated, or may be intermingled with a statement of
other facts irrelevant to the cause of action shown, or although the plaintiff
may demand relief to which he is not entitled under the facts alleged.”  (Gressley v. Williams (1961) 193
Cal.App.2d 636, 639.)
 
A.   
UNCERTAINTY
 
“[D]emurrers for uncertainty are disfavored.”  (Lickiss v. Financial Industry Regulatory
Authority (2012) 208 Cal.App.4th 1125, 1135.)  A demurrer for uncertainty will be sustained
only where the pleading is so bad that the responding party cannot reasonably
respond - i.e., he or she cannot reasonably determine what issues must be
admitted or denied, or what claims are directed against him or her.  (Khoury v. Maly’s of California (1993)
14 Cal.App.4th 612, 616.)  Where a
demurrer is made upon the ground of uncertainty, the demurrer must distinctly
specify exactly how or why the pleading is uncertain, and where such
uncertainty appears by reference to page and line numbers.  (See Fenton v. Groveland Comm. Services
Dist. (1982) 135 Cal.App.3d 797, 809.) 

 
                                                        
i.         
First,
Second, and Third Causes of Action – Contractual, Implied, and Equitable
Indemnity
 
“The elements of a cause of
action for indemnity are (1) a showing of fault on the part of the indemnitor
and (2) resulting damages to the indemnitee for which the indemnitor is
contractually or equitably responsible.” 
(Great Western Drywall, Inc. v. Interstate Fire & Casualty Co.
(2008) 161 Cal.App.4th 1033, 1041.
 
With regard to the first three causes of action for contractual,
implied, and equitable indemnity, the FACC alleges:
 
16. Following the dissolution of ATS LLC, Hofer
and Boladian entered into a “Plan of Dissolution of Aerlex Tax Services, LLC”
(“Dissolution Plan”), which appointed Boladian as the Liquidation Manager for
ATS LLC. A copy of the Dissolution Plan is attached hereto as Exhibit A. As the
Liquidation Manager, the Dissolution Plan authorized Boladian “to make,
execute, deliver, or adopt any and all agreements, resolutions, conveyances,
certificates, and other documents of every kind that are deemed necessary, appropriate,
or desirable, in the absolute discretion of the Liquidation Manger, to
implement the dissolution, winding up, and cancellation of the business and
affairs of the Company, including but not limited to . . . Distributing assets
of the Company to the Members to the fullest extent permitted by the Code . .
.” The Dissolution Plan also provided that “[t]he Company, and its
successors-in-interest and assigns, shall defend, indemnify, and hold the
Liquidation Manager harmless in connection with the implementation of the Plan
and the winding up of the business and affairs of the Company.” 
 
17. In or about September 2023, Boladian informed
Hofer that she was ending the partnership, and starting a new law firm. By
operation of law, that resulted in dissolution of ATS LLP.
 
18. Instead of wishing her former partner the
best of luck with her new firm, Hofer filed the instant lawsuit asserting a
host of claims against Boladian, including accusing her of “fraudulently”
dissolving ATS LLC.
 
[…]
 
20. Hofer and other plaintiffs herein have filed
a Complaint against Boladian in which they allege causes of action against
Boladian based on, inter alia, her alleged actions as Liquidation Manager under
the Dissolution Plan (Exhibit A). 
 
21. Boladian has performed all of her duties
under the Dissolution Plan. 
 
22. Boladian also has denied the allegations of
the Complaint and, without admitting the allegations of the Complaint, Boladian
contends that she is entitled to defense and indemnification under the
indemnification clause of the Dissolution Plan signed by Hofer. 
 
23. By this Cross-Complaint, Boladian demands
that each Cross-Defendant defend, indemnify, release and hold harmless Boladian
from any claims, loss, damages, expenses or liability paid by way of settlement
or judgment rendered against Boladian in the Complaint filed by Hofer.
 
[…]
 
25. Boladian is informed and believes, and based
thereon alleges, that Boladian entered into written, oral and/or implied
agreements with Cross-Defendants, and each of them. 
 
26. Boladian has performed her duties under the
written, oral and/or implied agreements. 
 
27. By reason of the foregoing, if Plaintiffs
recover against Boladian, then Boladian is entitled to implied contractual
indemnity from the Cross-Defendants, and each of them, for the alleged injuries
and damages sustained by the Plaintiffs, if any, for any sums paid by way of
settlement or judgment rendered against Boladian in the action based upon the
Complaint.
 
[…]
 
29. Without admitting any of the allegations of
the Complaint in equity and good conscience, if the Plaintiffs recover against
Boladian, then Boladian is entitled to equitable indemnity, apportionment of
liability and contribution among and from the Cross-Defendants according to
their respective fault for the injuries and damages allegedly sustained by the
Plaintiffs, if any, for any sums paid by way of settlement or judgment rendered
against Boladian in the action based upon the Complaint.
 
(FACC
¶¶ 16-18, 20-23, 25-27, 29.)
 
Thus, Boladian appears to allege the “fault” Plaintiffs committed was
filing a lawsuit against Boladian for fraud. 

 
The Court agrees that under the circumstances, these allegations are
nonsensical.  As the Ninth Circuit has
pointed out, interpreting an indemnity clause so broadly that it would require
“the plaintiffs to pay the defendants’ judgment and attorneys’ fees even if
plaintiffs prevailed” produces an “absurd” result.  (See Layman v. Combs (9th Cir. 1992)
994 F.2d 1344, 1352-1353.)  For the same
reasons, applying equitable indemnity against a plaintiff to defend and hold
the defendant harmless from a lawsuit plaintiff himself brought creates equally
absurd results.
 
            Therefore, the Court sustains
Plaintiffs’ demurrer to the first, second, and third causes of action on the
basis of uncertainty.
 
                                                      
ii.         
Fourth Cause
of Action – Breach of Contract 
 
“To prevail on a cause of
action for breach of contract, the plaintiff must prove (1) the contract, (2)
the plaintiff's performance of the contract or excuse for nonperformance, (3)
the defendant's breach, and (4) the resulting damage to the plaintiff.”  (Richman v. Hartley (2014) 224
Cal.App.4th 1182, 1186.)  
            
With respect to the fourth cause of action for breach of contract, the
FACC alleges:
 
31. As alleged in the Complaint, in or about
2020, Boladian entered into a Settlement Agreement with Hofer and ALG. While it
was in effect, Boladian fully performed under the terms of the Settlement
Agreement. However, Boladian is informed and believes, and based thereon
alleges, that Hofer and ALG breached the Settlement Agreement by, inter alia,
advertising post acquisition tax services on ALG’s website, failing to identify
and recommend ATS LLC as ALG’s preferred provider for post-acquisition aircraft
related tax services, etc. 
 
32. As a direct, foreseeable, and proximate
result of the breaches of the Settlement Agreement, Boladian (who was a
beneficiary to the terms of the Settlement Agreement at issue herein) has
suffered damages in an amount that currently cannot be ascertained but which
exceeds the jurisdictional minimum of this Court
 
(FACC
¶¶ 31-32.)
 
            Plaintiffs contend this is uncertain
because Plaintiff does not attach a copy of the settlement agreement to her
FAC.  
 
            “[W]here a written instrument is the
foundation of a cause of action, it may be pleaded in haec verba by
attaching a copy as an exhibit and incorporating it by proper reference.  (Miles v. Deutsche Bank National Trust Co.
(2015) 236 Cal.App.4th 394, 402.) 
However, that is not the exclusive means of pleading a contract.  (Ibid.)  A plaintiff may also “plead the legal effect
of the contract rather than its precise language.”  (Ibid.)  
 
            Notwithstanding, Boladian has
neither attached the settlement agreement nor pleaded any of its essential
terms.  As such, neither Plaintiffs nor
the Court can reasonably determine what terms of the settlement agreement Plaintiffs
are alleged to have breached.  Therefore,
the Court sustains Plaintiffs’ demurrer to the fourth cause of action for
uncertainty.  
 
                                                    
iii.         
Fifth Cause
of Action –Breach of Fiduciary Duty
 
            With respect to the fifth cause of
action for breach of fiduciary duty, the FACC alleges:
 
15. Boladian is informed and believes, and based
thereon alleges, that Hofer knew from the very beginning that a law firm cannot
operate in California as a LLC. Yet, he still proposed to form ATS as a LLC in
2014.
 
[…]
 
34. Hofer, by virtue of his position as a member
of ATS LLC, owed fiduciary duties to Boladian. 
 
35. Hofer breached those duties by engaging in
conduct described herein. Among other things, Boladian is informed and
believes, and based thereon alleges, that Hofer knew from the very beginning
that a law firm cannot operate in California as a LLC. Yet, he still proposed
to form ATS as a LLC in 2014. Moreover, despite his promise, Hofer failed to
advertise ATS LLC’s post acquisition tax services on ALG’s website. 
 
36. As a direct, foreseeable and proximate result
of Hofer’s breach of fiduciary duties of loyalty and care, Boladian has
suffered and continues to suffer damages in an amount that currently cannot be
ascertained but which exceeds the jurisdictional minimum of this Court.
 
(FACC
¶¶ 15, 34-36.)
 
            Plaintiffs contend these allegations
are uncertain because Boladian’s assertion that Hofer knew in 2014 that
operating ATS as an LLC was illegal is entirely speculative, and undercut by
Hofer’s assertion that ATS was a tax representative, not a law firm.  
 
            Here, Plaintiffs disagree with the
allegations, but do not demonstrate that these allegations are so bad that
Plaintiffs cannot reasonably determine what issues must be admitted or denied,
or what claims are directed against them. 
Therefore, the Court declines to sustain Plaintiffs’ demurrer to fifth
cause of action for uncertainty.  
 
B.   
FAILURE TO STATE A CAUSE OF ACTION
 
                                                        
i.         
Fifth Cause
of Action – Breach of Fiduciary Duty
 
“The elements of a claim for
breach of fiduciary duty are (1) the existence of a fiduciary relationship, (2)
its breach, and (3) damage proximately caused by that breach.”  (O'Neal v. Stanislaus County Employees'
Retirement Assn. (2017) 8 Cal.App.5th 1184, 1215.)
 
Plaintiffs contend that to the
extent Boladian’s breach of fiduciary duty claim is premised upon Hofer setting
up ATS as an LLC in 2014, such claim is barred by the applicable statute of
limitations, and to the extent the breach of fiduciary duty claim is premised
upon ALG’s failure to advertise ATS’s services, Boladian has established only
that ALG had a contractual obligation to do so, but has not established that
ALG owed Boladian a fiduciary duty to advertise ATS’s services.
 
Statute of Limitations
 
Boladian argues that the
statute of limitations was tolled by the delayed discovery rule because
Boladian did not discover that it was illegal to operate a law firm as an LLC
until 2023.
 
The delayed discovery rule “postpones accrual of a cause of action
until the plaintiff discovers, or has reason to discover, the cause of
action.”  (Stella v. Asset Management
Consultants, Inc. (2017) 8 Cal.App.5th 181, 191–192.)  “In order to rely on the discovery rule for
delayed accrual of a cause of action, “[a] plaintiff whose complaint shows on
its face that his claim would be barred without the benefit of the discovery
rule must specifically plead facts to show (1) the time and manner of discovery
and (2) the inability to have made earlier discovery despite reasonable
diligence.”  (Fox v. Ethicon
Endo-Surgery, Inc. (2005) 35 Cal.4th 797, 808.)  Thus, “the statute of limitations commences
when a party knows or should know the facts essential to his claim.”  (Love v. Fire Ins. Exchange (1990) 221
Cal.App.3d 1136, 1143.)
 
As licensed attorneys, both
Hofer and Boladian should have known it was illegal to operate a law firm as an
LLC in 2014.  Therefore, the delayed
discovery rule does not toll Boladian’s claim, and to the extent the breach of
fiduciary duty claim is premised upon Hofer’s structuring of ATS as an LLC in
2014, such claim is barred by the statute of limitations.
 
Fiduciary Duty
 
“Before a person can be
charged with a fiduciary obligation, he must either knowingly undertake to act
on behalf and for the benefit of another, or must enter into a relationship
which imposes that undertaking as a matter of law.”  (Hasso v. Hapke (2014) 227 Cal.App.4th
107, 140.)  Fiduciary duties are also
imposed by law “in certain technical, legal relationships such as those between
partners or joint venturers, trustees and beneficiaries, principals and agents,
and attorneys and clients.”  (Ibid.)  
 
As discussed above, Plaintiff
has not pleaded any of the terms of the settlement agreement.  But even assuming the settlement agreement created
an obligation for Plaintiffs to advertise ATS’s services on ALG’s website,
Plaintiff has not alleged that Plaintiffs knowingly undertook to act on
behalf of ATS to create a fiduciary duty. 
Nor has Boladian alleged a partnership or any other basis to create a
fiduciary duty imposed by law.  To the
contrary, the FACC alleges, “ATS LLC and ALG operated as separate firms
with separate offices.”  (FACC ¶ 13.)
 
Therefore, the Court sustains
Plaintiffs’ demurrer for failure to state a cause of action for breach of
fiduciary duty.
 
2.    
LEAVE TO AMEND
 
A plaintiff has the burden of showing in what
manner the complaint could be amended and how the amendment would change the
legal effect of the complaint, i.e., state a cause of action. (See The
Inland Oversight Committee v. City of San Bernardino (2018) 27 Cal.App.5th
771, 779; PGA West Residential Assn., Inc. v. Hulven Int'l, Inc. (2017)
14 Cal.App.5th 156, 189.) A plaintiff must not only state the legal basis for
the amendment, but also the factual allegations sufficient to state a cause of
action or claim. (See PGA West Residential Assn., Inc. v. Hulven Int'l, Inc.,
supra, 14 Cal.App.5th at p. 189.) Moreover, a plaintiff does not meet his
or her burden by merely stating in the opposition to a demurrer or motion to
strike that “if the Court finds the operative complaint deficient, plaintiff
respectfully requests leave to amend.” (See Major Clients Agency v Diemer
(1998) 67 Cal.App.4th 1116, 1133; Graham v. Bank of America (2014) 226
Cal.App.4th 594, 618 [asserting an abstract right to amend does not satisfy the
burden].)
 
Here, Boladian has failed to meet this burden.  
 
As a threshold matter, as discussed above, there are no additional
facts Boladian could allege to state a cause of action for indemnity against
the plaintiff who has sued her, as it would create the nonsensical result that
a successful plaintiff would have to pay its own recovery.  As such, granting Boladian leave to amend the
first three causes of action would be futile.
 
With regard to the causes of action for breach of contract and
breach of fiduciary duty, Boladian indicates, “Boladian and her counsel have
procured additional evidence that further supports her claims” and “Boladian
can include additional allegations in support of her breach of contract and breach
of fiduciary duty crossclaims against Hofer.” 
 
Although Boladian has failed to identify any specific facts she
could add to the cross-complaint, the Court acknowledges that Boladian’s breach
of contract cause of action could easily be remedied by either alleging the
essential terms of the 2020 Settlement Agreement, or attaching it to the
cross-complaint.  Therefore, the Court
grants Boladian leave to amend the breach of contract and breach of fiduciary
duty claims.    
 
CONCLUSION AND ORDER
 
For the reasons stated, the Court sustains Plaintiffs’ demurrer to the
first, second, and third causes of action without leave to amend, and sustains
Plaintiffs’ demurrer to the fourth and fifth causes of action with leave to
amend.  
 
Further, the Court orders Boladian to file and serve a second amended
cross-complaint in conformance with the Court’s ruling on or before October 18,
2024.   
 
Plaintiffs shall provide notice of the Court’s ruling and file the
notice with a proof of service forthwith. 

 
 
DATED:  September 26, 2024                                               ___________________________
                                                                                          Michael
E. Whitaker
                                                                                          Judge
of the Superior Court