  Case Number:  21STCV07830    Hearing Date:   May 8, 2024    Dept:  26 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
Department 26
 



 
YOUNGQUAN HU and
  JINGHUA REN,
 
                        Plaintiffs,
            vs.
 
DAIMLER TRUCKS NORTH AMERICA, LLC, et al.,
 
                        Defendants.


 
 Case No.: 21STCV07830
 
 Hearing Date: May 8, 2024
 
[TENTATIVE] order RE:
DEFENDANT DAIMLER TRUCKS NORTH AMERICA,
  LLC’S MOTION TO STRIKE
 
 



 
Background
            On
February 5, 2024, Plaintiffs Youngquan Hu and Jinghua Ren (“Plaintiff”) filed
the operative First Amended Complaint (“FAC”) against Defendants Daimler Trucks
North America, LLC, a Delaware Limited Liability Company; XPO Logistics, LLC, a
Delaware Limited Liability Company; American Alliance Logistics, Inc., a
California Corporation; Popo Trucking, Inc. a California Corporation; GC Global
Trucking, Inc. a California Corporation; Action Logistics, Inc., a California
Corporation; Liang Ye, an individual; Ran Gao, an Individual; Werner
Enterprises, Inc. a Nebraska Corporation; Fleet Truck Sales, Inc. a Nebraska
Corporation (“Defendants”); and DOES 3 to 50, inclusive for: (1) Strict Product
Liability; (2) Negligent Product Liability; (3) Negligence; and (4) Negligent
Hiring, Supervision, or Training of Employee. 
            On March 8, 2024, Defendant Daimler
Trucks North America, LLC (“DTNA”) filed the instant Motion to Strike. On April
23, 2024, Plaintiffs filed an opposition. The reply was due on May 1, 2024. As
of May 3, 2024, no reply has been filed. 
 
Allegations in the
Operative FAC
The FAC alleges as
follows:
On or about March 20,
2020, Defendant XPO contracted with Sabert Corp. to transport plastic trays and
lids from Sayreville, New Jersey to Riverside, California. (FAC ¶ 18.) Defendant
XPO hired Defendant Alliance to drive the load. (FAC ¶ 19.) The load was
transported in a 2016 Freightliner Cascadia, California License Plate No. XP65462, Vehicle Identification No.  VIN 3AKJGLD51GSGU1349, (hereafter the
“SUBJECT VEHICLE”). (FAC ¶ 20.) The SUBJECT VEHICLE was owned by the Alliance
Defendants but leased to Defendant Popo at the time of the accident. (FAC ¶¶ 21-22.)
On March 21, 2020,
Plaintiff and Defendant Gao were co-driving the SUBJECT VEHICLE from Sayreville
to Riverside. (FAC ¶ 23.) Plaintiff  and
Defendant Gao were employed by Defendant XPO and the Alliance Defendants and
were acting within the course and scope of their employment at the time of the
accident. (FAC ¶ 24.) Further, Defendant Gao was driving westbound on the I-40
in Oklahoma City, Oklahoma when he lost control of the SUBJECT VEHICLE and collided
with the wall on the right-hand side of the freeway, lost its trailer and then
collided with the wall on the left-hand side of the freeway and stopped. (FAC ¶
25.)  During the collision Plaintiff was
sleeping in the lower sleeping bunk of the SUBJECT VEHICLE’s sleeper
compartment, which was a tent style bunk restraint in use. (FAC ¶ 26.) Plaintiff
moved laterally, from side to side, during the collision, struck his head, and
was rendered quadriplegic.  (Id.)
Defendants Daimler,
Werner, Fleet and DOES 3 through 24, inclusive, and each of them, (hereafter
“THE PRODUCT DEFENDANTS”) knew that the SUBJECT VEHICLE was to be purchased and
used without inspection for defects by the users of that vehicle including but
not limited to Plaintiff. (FAC ¶ 30.) Specifically, “THE PRODUCT DEFENDANTS
failed to make the sleeper compartment safe for the sleeping passenger in an
accident.  Specifically, the sleeping
passenger is completely unrestrained.  It
is common knowledge and well known by the PRODUCT DEFENDANTS that an
unrestrained passenger in a moving vehicle is at risk of serious bodily injury
or death.  In spite of this THE PRODUCT
DEFENDANTS failed to provide a sufficient occupant protection system for the
sleeper compartment.” (FAC ¶ 32.)
 
Legal Standard
Motions
to strike are used to reach defects or objections to pleadings that are not
challengeable by demurrer (i.e., words, phrases, prayer for damages,
etc.).  (See Code Civ. Proc., §§
435-437.)  A party may file a motion to
strike in whole or in part within the time allowed to respond to a pleading,
however, if a party serves and files a motion to strike without demurring to
the complaint, the time to answer is extended. 
(See Code Civ. Proc., §§ 435(b)(1), 435(c).)
A
motion to strike lies only where the pleading has irrelevant, false, or
improper matter, or has not been drawn or filed in conformity with laws.  (See Code Civ. Proc., § 436.)  The grounds for moving to strike must appear
on the face of the pleadings or by way of judicial notice.  (See Code Civ. Proc., § 437.)
 
Meet
and Confer Requirement 
Code of Civil Procedure section 435.5,
subdivision (a) requires that “[b]efore filing a motion to strike pursuant
to this chapter, the moving party shall meet and confer¿in person or by
telephone¿with the party who filed the pleading that is subject to the motion
to strike for the purpose of determining whether an agreement can be reached
that would resolve the objections to be raised in the motion to strike.” The
parties are to meet and confer at least five days before the date the
responsive pleading is due and if they are unable to meet the demurring party
shall be granted an automatic 30-day extension.  (Code Civ. Proc., §
435.5(a)(2).)  The moving party must also file and serve a declaration
detailing the meet and confer efforts.  (Id.¿at (a)(3).)¿ If an amended pleading is filed, the parties must
meet and confer again before a motion to strike may be filed to the amended
pleading.  (Id.¿at (a).)  
Here, 
DTNA sufficiently met and conferred. 
(Cosgrove Decl. ¶¶ 2-3, Ex. A.)
 
Discussion
DTNA moves to
strike allegations of and prayer for punitive damages and prejudgment interest.
Specifically, DTNA moves to strike paragraphs 41-43, and prayer at 21:8-11 as
to the first and second causes of action. DTNA argues the FAC does not
specifically plead any facts to support a claim for punitive damages because it
is replete with conclusions and contentions of counsel, which are not
allegations of fact that must be deemed true by the Court. Furthermore, DTNA
contends the FAC merely characterizes its conduct as intentional, which is
insufficient. DTAN also contends the FAC makes no effort to distinguish between
the alleged acts of two, separate and distinct legal entities. Moreover, DTNA
asserts Plaintiffs must plead specific facts constituting clear and convincing
evidence that DTNA is guilty of fraud, malice or oppression that was ratified
or approved ny an officer, director or managing agent of DTNA, which Plaintiffs
did not do. Additionally, DTNA argues prejudgment interest is not available
here because there must be facts alleged to establish oppression, fraud and/or
malice under Civil Code section 3288 and prejudgment interest may not be
awarded on claims for general, noneconomic damages for personal injury,
physical, mental and emotional pain and suffering. Finally, DTNA contends
Plaintiffs should not be granted leave to amend because they were granted leave
to file the FAC years after this action was commenced, discovery was performed,
and a trial date was set. 
In opposition,
Plaintiffs argue they have alleged specific facts evidencing that DTNA knew
their truck’s sleeper compartment was dangerous to sleep in because the safety
system was inadequate and left the occupant completely unrestrained; knew that
people had been seriously injured in their trucks because the safety systems
were inadequate; and continued to market the truck and actively encouraged
people to sleep in the truck while driving across country, which established
that DTNA was aware of the probable consequences of their conduct and willfully
and deliberately failed to avoid those consequences. Plaintiffs also argue the
allegations in the FAC clearly put DTNA on notice of the punitive damages claim
against them. Moreover, Plaintiffs contend the cases cited by DTNA are
distinguishable from this instant case because their allegations are much more
detailed and rise to the level of conscious disregard. In addition, Plaintiff
argue they have made sufficient allegations that DTNA’s officers, directors or managing
agents ratified the wrongful conduct. Lastly, Plaintiff contend if the Court
decides to grant the present motion, any alleged defects would easily be
corrected with leave to amend. 
 
Punitive Damages and Prejudgment Interest 
California Civil
Code section 3294 authorizes the recovery of punitive damages in non-contract
cases where “the defendant has been guilty of oppression, fraud, or malice . .
. .” (Civ. Code, § 3294(a).) “‘Malice’ means conduct which is intended by the
defendant to cause injury to the plaintiff or despicable conduct which is
carried on by the defendant with a willful and conscious disregard of the
rights or safety of others.” (Id. at (c)(1).) “‘Oppression’ means
despicable conduct that subjects a person to cruel and unjust hardship in
conscious disregard of that person’s rights.” (Id. at (c)(2).) “‘Fraud’
means an intentional misrepresentation, deceit, or concealment of a material
fact known to the defendant with the intention on the part of the defendant of
thereby depriving a person of property or legal rights or otherwise causing injury.”
(Id. at (c)(3).) Punitive damages thus require more than the mere
commission of a tort. (See Taylor v. Superior Court (1979) 24 Cal.3d
890, 894-95.) 
In order to
survive a motion to strike a prayer for punitive damages, a plaintiff must
plead ultimate facts showing its entitlement to such relief. (Clauson v.
Superior Court (1998) 67 Cal.App.4th 1253, 1255 (Clauson).)
Allegations, devoid of any factual assertions, are insufficient to support a
conclusion that parties acted with oppression, fraud, or malice. (Smith v.
Superior Court (1992) 10 Cal.App.4th 1033, 1042.) “In ruling on a motion to
strike, courts do not read allegations in isolation.” (Clauson, supra,
67 Cal.App.4th at p. 1255.)
“‘Something more
than the mere commission of a tort is always required for punitive damages.
There must be circumstances of aggravation or outrage, such as spite or
“malice,” or a fraudulent or evil motive on the part of the defendant, or such
a conscious and deliberate disregard of the interests of others that his
conduct may be called willful or wanton.’ [Citation.]” (Taylor, supra,
24 Cal.3d at 894–895, [italics omitted].) 

Similarly, “[i]n
an action for the breach of an obligation not arising from contract, and in
every case of oppression, fraud, or malice, interest may be given, in the
discretion of the jury.” (Civ. Code, § 3288.)
 
Here, the FAC
pleads sufficient facts to support Plaintiffs’ claims for punitive damages and
prejudgment interest. The FAC alleges DTNA was aware that the sleeper
compartment of their truck was not safe and causes occupants to suffer
catastrophic injury in side impacts and rollover incidents  because it leaves the occupant unrestrained
in a moving vehicle. (FAC 11:11-19.) The FAC further alleges despite this
knowledge, DTNA continued to produce, market, and sell the subject vehicle. (FAC
11:20-23.) The FAC also alleges DTNA was aware of alternative designs that
exists which would offer protection from lateral movement in a side impact or
rollover accident. (FAC 11:24-28-12:1-19.) Taking these allegations as true, a
jury could reasonably found that DTNA acted with conscious disregard as to the
safety of others in continuing to produce, market, and design the subject
vehicle with the purported defect.
 
Conclusion and ORDER
            Defendant Daimler Trucks North
America, LLC’s Motion to Strike is DENIED.
            Moving Party to give notice within
seven (7) days.
 
DATED: May 8, 2024
 
                                                                                    ___________________________
                                                                              Teresa
Sanchez-Gordon