  Case Number:  21STCV23551    Hearing Date:   September 27, 2023    Dept:  17 Superior
Court of California
County of
Los Angeles
 
DEPARTMENT 17
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 



MANAL
  MANSOUR 
  
         vs.
 
HYUNDAI MOTOR AMERICA. 
 


 Case No.: 
  21STCV23551 
 
 
 
 Hearing Date: September 27, 2023



 
 
Plaintiff’s motion for
reconsideration is GRANTED. 
 
On 6/24//2021, Plaintiff Mansal Mansour (Plaintiff) filed
suit against Hyundai Motor America (Defendant) alleging violations of the
Song-Beverly Act. 
 
            On 7/26/2022, the Court granted
Defendant’s motion to compel arbitration.
 
Now, Plaintiff moves for reconsideration of that ruling based on a change in law.
 
Discussion 
 
            Plaintiff
seeks reconsideration of the Court’s 7/26/2022 ruling based on the recently
published decision Martha Ochoa v. Ford Motor Company (2023) Cal.Ct.App.

 
            The
Court agrees reconsideration is warranted. 
 
            Typically,
a motion for reconsideration must be brought within 10 days of entry of the
order. However, CCP section 1008, subdivision (c), provides “If a court at any time determines that there has been
a change of law that warrants it to reconsider a prior order it entered, it may
do so on its own motion and enter a different order.” 
 
            Here,
the Court’s previous ruling was based on a conclusion that Defendant could enforce the
arbitration agreement under a theory of equitable estoppel. This was based on a
conclusion that Song-Beverly claims: (1) necessarily rely on the underlying
contract, given that if a plaintiff
did not enter into the RISC, he or she would not have received the Subject
Vehicle or the corresponding warranties and certifications from the defendant;
and (2) all directly relate to the condition of the vehicle and thus are
intimately founded in and intertwined with the underlying contract and the
condition of the vehicle bought subject to that contract.
 
            However, in Ochoa,
the Court of Appeal
directly addressed the manufacturer’s standing vis-à-vis the Sales Contract and
equitable estoppel in the newly published Martha Ochoa v. Ford Motor Company
(2023) Cal.Ct.App. In rejecting the car manufacturer’s right to enforce the Sales
Contract’s arbitration agreement under a theory of third-party beneficiary or
equitable estoppel, the Court wrote: 
 
We agree with the trial court that FMC [Ford] could not
compel arbitration based on plaintiffs’ agreements with the dealers that sold them
the vehicles. Equitable estoppel does not apply because, contrary to FMC’s
arguments, plaintiffs’ claims against it in no way rely on the agreements. FMC
was not a third party beneficiary of those agreements as there is no basis to
conclude the plaintiffs and their dealers entered into them with the intention
of benefitting FMC.
 
            As such,
Ochoa reaches the
opposite conclusion as Felisilda and concludes than an automaker may not
compel arbitration based on the arbitration clause contained in the selling
dealership’s contract. Given that this was the precise basis for compelling
arbitration, the Court finds that new law justifies a reconsideration of the
Court’s previous order granting the motion to compel.  
 
            Based on
the foregoing, Plaintiff’s motion for reconsideration is granted. 
 
 
It is so
ordered. 
 
Dated: 
September    , 2023
                                                                                                                                                           
   Hon. Jon R. Takasugi
  
Judge of the Superior Court
 
 
 
Parties who intend to submit on
this tentative must send an email to the court at smcdept17@lacourt.org
by 4 p.m. the day prior as directed by the instructions provided on the court
website at www.lacourt.org. 
If a party submits on the tentative, the party’s email must include the case
number and must identify the party submitting on the tentative.  If all parties to a motion
submit, the court will adopt this tentative as the final order.  If the department does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on the tentative and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed off calendar.  For more information,
please contact the court clerk at (213) 633-0517.  
 
 