 Case Number:  24TRCV01727    Hearing Date:   September 13, 2024    Dept:  8 Tentative Ruling¿ 
¿¿ 
HEARING DATE:                 September 13, 2024
¿¿ 
CASE NUMBER:                   24TRCV01727
¿¿ 
CASE NAME:                        Patricia
L. Gallardo; Lucia Reynoso v. American Honda Motor Co., Inc., et al.  
¿¿ 
MOVING PARTY:                 
Plaintiffs, Patricia L. Gallardo and Lucia Reynoso
¿¿ 
RESPONDING PARTY:        Defendant,
American Honda Motor Co., Inc.
 
TRIAL DATE:                        Not Set.
¿¿ 
MOTION:¿                              (1) Motion to Compel
Deposition of Defendant's Person Most Knowledgeable and Production of Documents

                                                (2) Request for
Mandatory Monetary Sanctions
 
Tentative Rulings:                  (1) CONTINUED to October 4,
2024.
                                                (2) CONTINUED but
likely to be denied.
 
¿¿ 
¿ 
I. BACKGROUND¿¿ 
¿¿ 
A. Factual¿¿ 
¿ 
On
May 21, 2024, Plaintiffs, Patricia L. Gallardo and Lucia Reynoso (collectively,
“Plaintiffs”) filed a complaint against Defendant, American Honda Motor Co.
Inc. (“AHM”), and DOES 1 through 10. The complaint alleges causes of action
for: (1) Violation of the Song-Beverly Consumer Warranty Act Breach of Express
Warranty; (2) Violation of the Song-Beverly Consumer Warranty Act Breach of
Implied Warranty; and (3) Violation of Business and Professions Code § 17200.
 
On
June 26, 2024, Plaintiffs note that they noticed the deposition of AHM’s Person
Most Knowledgeable (“PMK”). On July 8, 2024, Plaintiffs further note that
Defendant served objections to the deposition. However, Plaintiffs assert that
Defendant’s deposition objections contained boilerplate objections to the
documents requested and topics to be discussed. 
 
Plaintiffs
note that in an effort to work together, Plaintiffs’ counsel attempted to meet
and confer with Defendant on dates of availability. Plaintiffs contend that
although Defendant’s objections stated that they were amenable to meet and
confer on an alternative date, as of the date Plaintiffs filed this motion,
Defendant and its counsel never provided any reasonable dates of availability
to Plaintiffs’ counsel despite numerous attempts to informally resolve this
issue.
            As such, Plaintiffs have brought
this Motion to Compel the Deposition of Defendant AHM’s PMK and Request for
Production of Documents. 
 
B. Procedural¿¿ 
¿ 
            On Augst 8, 2024, Plaintiffs filed this Motion to Compel
Deposition of AHM’s PMK and Request for Production of Documents. On August 30,
2024, Defendant AHM filed an opposition brief. On September 5, 2024, Plaintiffs
filed a reply brief. 
 
II. ANALYSIS¿ 
¿ 
A.   
Legal
Standard 
 
Code of Civil Procedure
section 2025.450, section (a) provides:  
 
“If, after service of a deposition notice, a party to the action
or an officer, director, managing agent, or employee of a party, or a person
designated by an organization that is a party under Section 2025.230, without
having served a valid objection under Section 2025.410, fails to appear for examination,
or to proceed with it, or to produce for inspection any document,
electronically stored information, or tangible thing described in the
deposition notice, the party giving the notice may move for an order compelling
the deponent’s attendance and testimony, and the production for inspection of
any document, electronically stored information, or tangible thing described in
the deposition notice.” 
 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.450,
subd. (a).)  
 
The motion must “be
accompanied by a meet and confer declaration under Section 2016.040, or, when
the deponent fails to attend the deposition…by a declaration stating that the
petitioner has contacted the deponent to inquire about the nonappearance.”
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.450, subd. (2).) A court shall impose monetary
sanctions if the motion to compel is granted unless the one subject to
sanctions acted with substantial justification or other circumstances would
make the imposition of the sanction unjust. (Code. Civ. Proc., § 2025.450,
subd. (g)(1).)  
 
B.    Discussion
 
i.       Plaintiffs’ Meet and Confer Efforts were Insufficient
 
            Code of Civil Procedure § 2025.450(b)(2) requires that a
motion to compel a part deponent to appear or produce documents “shall be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration
under Section 2016.040, or, when the deponent fails to attend the deposition
and produce the documents, electronically stored information, or things
described in the deposition notice, by a declaration stating that the
petitioner has contacted the deponent to inquire about the
nonappearance.”  (C.C.P. §2025.450(b)(2).) The attempt to resolve
informally may be made either by conferring “in person, by telephone, or by
letter with an opposing party or attorney.”  (C.C.P. §2023.010(i),
[failure to make such attempt constitutes “misuse of discovery process”].)
            Here,
Plaintiffs note that on July 18, 2024, Plaintiffs’ counsel requested an
alternative date in which to conduct the deposition of Defendant’s PMK.
Further, Plaintiffs’ counsel further notes that on July 26, 2024, another
follow up on dates for the deposition of Defendant’s PMK. However, Plaintiffs
assert that Defendant did not respond and failed to cooperate in arranging the
deposition. (Declaration of Ezra Ryu (“Ryu Decl.”), ¶ 4.) Plaintiffs contend
that while Defendant’s objections stated that they were amenable to meet and
confer on an alternative date, as of the date they filed this motion, Defendant
nor its counsel have never provided any reasonable dates of availability to
Plaintiffs’ counsel despite numerous attempts to informally resolve this issue.
(Ryu Decl., ¶ 5.) 
 
            However,
AHM argues that Plaintiffs motion was filed without properly meeting and
conferring. AHM asserts that Plaintiffs never attempted to meet and confer
regarding the categories for examination or the documents requested. Instead,
AHM asserts that Plaintiffs’ meet and confer consisted of two emails, simply
stating “please provide PMK dates for the end of August,” and “following up.”
Shortly after that, AHM notes that Plaintiffs filed the instant motion. AHM
clarifies that there was no letter, no telephone call, no meeting discussing
the categories of examination, documents requested, or a deposition date. 
 
            A review
of Ryu’s declaration Exhibit 3 is evidence of an insufficient “effort” to meet
and confer. Although the Court understands that AHM failed to respond with
alternative dates for the deposition until after the filing of this motion,
that does not negate the fact that Plaintiffs’ counsel failed to meet and
confer in good faith prior to filing this motion. In this motion, the
Plaintiffs are requesting this Court order (1) Defendant to produce its PMK to
testify to the matters described with reasonable particularity in the notice of
the deposition and production of documents; (2) Defendant and its employees to
appear for the deposition and produce the documents requested within ten (10)
days of the motion; and (3) grant Plaintiffs’ request for monetary sanctions.
Certainly, this Court would not be inclined to grant this motion as to
categories and documents that would be ordered to be produced when Plaintiffs
have not even attempted to meet and confer with Defendant about what Plaintiffs
describe as AHM’s “litany of boilerplate objections” to said categories and
documents. 
 
            Thus, this
Court CONTINUES this motion to October 4, 2024. The parties will be required to
provide a status report as to the details of the parties’ meet and confer efforts,
and the status of the remaining categories and documents at issue after the
meet and confer efforts on or before October 2, 2024. The Court further notes
that sanctions will be discussed at the continued hearing, but that because of
Plaintiffs’ insufficient meet and confer effort prior to the bringing of this
motion, the Court is unlikely to award Plaintiffs their requested monetary
sanctions. 
            
III. CONCLUSION¿¿ 
¿¿¿ 
            For the foregoing reasons, Plaintiff’s
Motion to Compel the Deposition of AHM’s PMK and Request for Production of
Documents is CONTINUED. 
 
            Plaintiffs are ordered to give
notice.