  Case Number:  24TRCV01218    Hearing Date:   September 13, 2024    Dept:  8 Tentative Ruling¿¿ 
¿¿¿ 
HEARING DATE:                 September 13, 2024
¿¿¿ 
CASE NUMBER:                   24TRCV01218
¿¿ 
CASE NAME:                        Noemi
Cerna v. Mercedes-Benz USA, LLC, et al.

¿¿ 
MOVING PARTY:                 Plaintiff,
Noemi Cerna
 
RESPONDING PARTY:        Defendant,
Mercedes-Benz USA, LLC 
¿¿ 
TRIAL DATE:                        Not Set. 
¿¿¿ 
MOTION:¿                              (1) Motion to Compel
Defendant’s Further Responses to Requests for Production of Documents, Set One
                                                 
                                                
Tentative Rulings:                  (1) GRANT in part and DENY in
part as discussed below. Most of the objections raised are overruled, except as
to privilege if a privilege log is provided and as to other meritorious objections
as discussed below.  
                                                 
 Overview: 
This discovery dispute appears to the Court to be the product of a lack
of a protocol or agreement between the law firms representing the parties.  The Court has over 150 Song-Beverly cases on
its current docket, and in only about 10% of those cases are there any
discovery motions.  Why?  Because in 90% of the cases, counsel have
developed a working relationship, recognizing that the volume of Lemon Law
litigation and the high number of cases being managed by each of the law firms necessitates
cooperation, accommodation, and reasonableness on extensions of time to respond
to the often voluminous requests for information.   Further,
upwards of 98% of Song-Beverly Act case in Los Angeles County resolve by direct
negotiation or by mediation.  The Court
has devoted considerable time in this Tentative Ruling to providing guidance on
the subject requests and responses, as well as some guidance for future handling,
that it hopes counsel on both sides will take to heart.  
 
I. BACKGROUND¿¿¿ 
¿¿¿ 
A. Factual¿¿¿ 
¿¿¿ 
On April 9, 2024, Plaintiff, Noemi Cerna (“Plaintiff”)
filed a complaint against Defendant, Mercedes-Benz USA, LLC (“MBUSA”), and DOES
1 through 10. The complaint alleges causes of action for: (1) Violation of
Song-Beverly Act – Breach of Express Warranty; and (2) Violation of Song
Beverly Act – Breach of Implied Warranty. 
 
The moving papers assert that on May 24 2024,
Plaintiff served Requests for Production of Documents, Set One on MBUSA
requesting documents relating to: (1) Plaintiff’s own vehicle (RFP Nos. 1-4, 7,
9, 11, 13); (2) Defendant’s policies and procedures for handling Song-Beverly
and lemon law cases (RFP No. 21); (3) documents related to MBUSA’s internal
investigations encompassing customer complaints and field service actions for
same or similar defects/nonconformities found within vehicles of the same year,
make, model, or substantially similar vehicles, that it undertook and submitted
to NHTSA in compliance with federal regulation (RFP Nos. 30, 31).
 
Plaintiff states that on June 25, 2024, MBUSA served
deficient responses replete with general and specific boilerplate objections.  The Court notes that this was the minimum 30
days after service of the RFPs, i.e., no extensions were granted.  On July 12, 2024, Plaintiff asserts that her
counsel served Defendant with a detailed meet and confer letter identifying
each issue taken with MBUSA’s allegedly procedurally deficient responses and
improper objections and outstanding production along with Plaintiff’s
supporting authorities. On that same date, Plaintiff notes that Defendant’s
counsel referred Plaintiff’s counsel to one of their designated attorneys to
meet and confer. Plaintiff’s counsel noted that he attempted to contact the
designated counsel on the issue raised within her letter. However, Plaintiff’s
counsel notes that she was unable to  contact that lawyer to conduct the meet and confer
session. 
 
Plaintiff notes that despite Plaintiff’s counsel’s
written and subsequent telephonic attempts to contact Defendant’s counsel,
Defendant’s counsel did not respond to Plaintiff’s request to meet and confer
regarding the issues raised in the July 12, 2024 letter. Further, Plaintiff
notes that Defendant also failed to provide any alternative availability for
the conference in good faith. Further, to date, Plaintiff also notes that no
verified responses nor supplemental production was ever served. 
 
Accordingly, Plaintiff has brought this Motion to
Compel Further Responses to Requests for Production of Documents, Set One. 
 
B. Procedural¿¿¿ 
¿¿ 
On August 9, 2024, Plaintiff filed her
Motions to Compel MBUSA’s Further Responses to Requests for Production of
Documents, Set One. On August 30, 2024, MBUSA filed an opposition brief. On September
6, 2024, Plaintiff filed a reply brief. 
 
II. REQUEST FOR JUDICIAL NOTICE
            
            With
Plaintiff’s reply brief, she filed a request for judicial notice. The Court
DENIES this request as it was brought on reply, and not with the moving papers.

 
III. ANALYSIS¿ 
¿ 
A.   
Legal
Standard 
A party may file a motion compelling
further production if it deems the responses are inadequate, incomplete, or
evasive, or an objection in the responses is without merit or too general.
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.310.) The motion shall be accompanied with a meet and
confer declaration. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.310, subd. (b).) To prevail, the
moving party must first offer specific facts demonstrating “good cause
justifying the discovery sought by the demand.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.310,
subd. (b)(1).) This burden “is met simply by a fact-specific showing of
relevance.” (TBG Ins. Services Corp. v. Superior Court (2002) 96
Cal.App.4th 443, 448.) If “good cause” is shown by the moving party, the burden
shifts to the responding party to justify any objections made to document
disclosure. (Kirkland v. Superior Court (2002) 95 Cal.App.4th 92,
98.)¿¿¿ 
The court shall impose sanctions on a
party who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel further unless the
party acted with substantial justification or other circumstances make imposing
a sanction unjust. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.310, subd. (h).) However, “absent
exceptional circumstances, the court shall not impose sanctions on a party or
any attorney of a party for failure to provide electronically stored
information that has been lost, damaged, altered, or overwritten as the result
of the routine, good faith operation of an electronic information system.”
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.310, subd. (j)(1).)¿¿ 
 
 
B.    Discussion 
 
                                    
i.         
Meet and Confer Efforts
 
            MBUSA’s
opposition argues that Plaintiff failed to engage in a good faith effort to
meet and confer. Defendant asserts that Plaintiff’s June12, 2024,
Plaintiff’s counsel sent via email a long, proforma, boilerplate-like purported
meet and confer to MBUS’s counsel which unreasonably demanded a response to it
by June 19, 2024. Further, MBUSA argues that from July 2024 to date, MBUSA’s
counsel has no record of any further meet and confer attempts by Plaintiff’s
counsel despite the claim that he attempted to telephonically meet and confer after
MBUSA failed to respond. The Court is perplexed as to why MBUSA would raise a
meet and confer issue when there is no evidence that MBUSA’s counsel responded
to the meet and confer letter, whether that letter was boilerplate, proforma, or
otherwise. The Court finds that Plaintiff’s meet and confer attempts were
sufficient prior to bringing this motion.  
 
                                  
ii.         
Requests for Production of Documents, Set One
 
            Plaintiff seeks
this Court to order MBUSA to provide further responses to Requests for
Production of Documents, Set One, Nos. 1-3, 7, 9, 11, 13-21, 30, and 31. The
Corut will discuss each below. 
 
RFP No. 1: This request seeks MBUSA to produce “[a]ll DOCUMENTS
regarding the SUBJECT VEHICLE that are within [MBUSA’s] Customer Relations
Center. “SUBJECT VEHICLE” shall mean the vehicle which is the subject of this
lawsuit and identified as the 2021 Mercedes-Benz G-Class, bearing VIN No.:
W1NYC7HJXMX405112.” 
 
            The Court GRANTS this request as the
information is relevant and is likely to lead to admissible evidence as it is tailored
to the subject vehicle. 
 
 
RFP No. 2: This
request seeks MBUSA to produce “[a]ll DOCUMENTS which evidence,
support, refer, or relate to each of the affirmative defenses as set forth in
[MBUSA’s] Answer to Plaintiff’s Complaint.”
 
            The Court will
take oral argument on this RFP, as there is some inherent ambiguity in the request,
i.e., does Plaintiff seek only those documents which evidence or support “each”
affirmative defense, or does Plaintiff seek documents which evidence or support
“any of” the defenses?  Assuming the
latter is what was intended, many affirmative defenses in MBUSA’s Answer (or in
the answers field by an civil litigation defendant) are legal defenses, not
ones which would necessarily have evidentiary support.  
 
RFP No. 3: This
request asks MBUSA to produce “[a]ll DOCUMENTS which evidence, describe, refer,
or relate to any inspection of the SUBJECT VEHICLE.” In response to this
request, MBUSA objected as follows: vague, ambiguous, and unintelligible; overbroad
and unduly burdensome; information not relevant and not reasonably calculated
to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence; fails to specifically describe
each item or reasonably particularize each category of item; MBUSA was not a
party to the underlying agreement; the requests seek information in the
possession, custody, and/or control of third parties; assumes facts that have
not been established; and is an incomplete hypothetical. The Court disagrees with
most of the objections, but sees some ambiguity in the lack of clarity as to
who performed the inspection.  This ambiguity
is resolved by interpreting the RFP to encompass an inspection of the subject
vehicle where there is a document or record of the inspection and that document
is in MBSA’s [possession, custody or control. 
and overrules the objections. However, Defendant MBUSA also responded
that “after a diligent search, [MBUSA] does not have any relevant and
non-privileged documents currently in its possession, custody, or control.” 
 
            If MBUSA is truly
asserting that the only responsive documents are privileged, the Court finds
that MBUSA should have produced a privilege log.   CCP section 2031.240(c)(1) specifies: “If an objection is based on a claim of
privilege or a claim that the information sought is protected work product, the
response shall provide sufficient factual information for other parties to
evaluate the merits of that claim, including, if necessary, a privilege log.”  The purpose of this  factual description is to permit the Court to evaluate
the claim of privilege. (Best Products, Inc. v. Superior Court (2004)
119 Cal.App.4th 1181, 1188–1189.)  
Further, the response subject to objection perhaps
ignores the fact that MBUSA’s authorized dealers must have conducted an
inspection of the subject vehicle when it was brought in for repair or
servicing.  If MBUSA is asserting that it
lacks possession, custody or control of documents generated by its authorized service
and repair facilities, in most other Song Beverly cases before this Corut there
is a franchise agreement between the manufacturer/distributor and its
authorized dealers which gives the franchisor access to its franchisee’s
records in connection with warranty claims. 
A party responding to a discovery request “cannot plead ignorance to information which can be obtained from
sources under his control.” (Deyo v. Kilbourne (1978) 84 Cal.App.3d 771,
782.)  By analogy of the similar rule for
responses to interrogatories, “If the responding party does not have personal
knowledge sufficient to respond fully to an interrogatory, that party shall so
state, but shall make a reasonable and good faith effort to obtain the
information by inquiry to other natural persons or organizations . . . .”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.220(c).)  Accordingly, MBUSA should make a good faith
effort to obtain the information by inquiry to its dealer organizations who
performed warranty work on the subject vehicle. 

Further, in the context of warranty claims, the dealers
typically submit paper or electronic information relating to the work for which
the dealer is seeking reimbursement, which typically includes some type of
inspection and assessment of the vehicle in order to perform diagnostic or
repair work.  Those are the types of documents
the RFP reasonably seeks.   While the word “inspection” could be argued to
be ambiguous, in this context the ordinary dictionary definition should be applied
to MBUSA’s written response and production of documents.  The motion is GRANTED.  MBUSA must provide a further verified
responses, preserving the privilege objection if a privilege log is provided,
and otherwise without further objection. 
If it will be MBUSA’s position that it lacks the ability to access its
authorized dealer’s records for purposes of providing discovery responses, MBUSA
takes that position at its peril for future purposes in this case. 
 
RFP No. 7: This
request asks MBUSA to “[p]roduce all DOCUMENTS that refer or relate to all
diagnostic trouble codes that are electronically stored by [MBUSA] or [MBUSA’s]
authorized repair facility as result of any inspections or repairs conducted on
the SUBJECT VEHICLE.” In response
to this request, MBUSA objected as follows: vague, ambiguous, and
unintelligible; overbroad and unduly burdensome; information not relevant and
not reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence;
fails to specifically describe each item or reasonably particularize each
category of item; MBUSA was not a party to the underlying agreement; the
requests seek information in the possession, custody, and/or control of third
parties; assumes facts that have not been established; and is an incomplete
hypothetical. The Court disagrees and overrules the objections. However,
Defendant MBUSA also responded that “after a diligent search, [MBUSA] does not
have any relevant and non-privileged documents currently in its possession,
custody, or control. 
 
            While there are
some matters of this request to discuss, the Court GRANTS Plaintiff’s request
and orders MBUSA to provide further, code-compliant responses without
objection.   The discussion of access to dealer records in the
Court’s Tentative Ruling on RFP No. 7 applies here as well.  It may well be that the dealers did not
provide print outs of diagnostic trouble codes in its submission of warranty
claims to MBUSA in this case, but a party is required to produce documents that
it reasonably can access, such as a wife asking her husband for documents he
may have, or a franchisor asking its franchisee for responsive documents.  MBUSA should ask its dealers for printout of
dealer warranty records including any printouts or digitally stored records of the
trouble codes, and produce those to Plaintiff. 

 
RFP No. 9: This request seeks MBUSA to “[p]roduce all DOCUMENTS
that refer to or relate to any CONTACT or COMMUNICATIONS between [MBUSA] and
[MBUSA’s] authorized repair facility regarding the SUBJECT VEHICLE.” In
response, MBUSA objected as follows:
vague, ambiguous, and unintelligible; overbroad and unduly burdensome;
information not relevant and not reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery
of admissible evidence; fails to specifically describe each item or reasonably
particularize each category of item; and is an incomplete hypothetical. The
Court disagrees and overrules the objections. However, Defendant MBUSA also
responded that “after a diligent search, [MBUSA] does not have any relevant and
non-privileged documents currently in its possession, custody, or control.” 
 
            The Court GRANTS
this motion as to non-privileged documents and requires MBUSA to produce a
privilege log for those communications that are privileged. In the Court’s
view, an email, text, or warranty claim reimbursement request and MBUSA’s
approval or disapproval of the same between MBUSA and any of its authorized
service and repair facilities who submitted warranty claims for warranty work
on the subject vehicle qualifies as a relevant, discoverable COMMUNICATION for purposes
of a further response to this RFP.  
 
RFP No. 11: This request seeks MBUSA to “[p]roduce all
DOCUMENTS that refer to or relate to any summaries of all amounts paid by
[MBUSA] for warranty repairs performed on the SUBJECT VEHICLE.” In response to this request, MBUSA objected as
follows: vague, ambiguous, and unintelligible; overbroad and unduly burdensome;
information not relevant and not reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery
of admissible evidence; fails to specifically describe each item or reasonably
particularize each category of item; MBUSA was not a party to the underlying
agreement; the requests seek information in the possession, custody, and/or
control of third parties; calls for legal conclusion; assumes facts that have
not been established; and is an incomplete hypothetical. The Court disagrees
and overrules the objections. However, Defendant MBUSA also responded that
“after a diligent search, [MBUSA] does not have any relevant and non-privileged
documents currently in its possession, custody, or control. 
 
            In other Song-Beverly
litigation that has come before the Court for trial or discovery motions, it is
typical for the warrantor to have a “dashboard” page that summarizes the
vehicle’s repair history in summary fashion, and this summary typically includes
claim reimbursement amounts on a visit by visit basis.  If MBUSA does not have such information or documents,
then the further response without objection (other than privilege if a privilege
log is provided) may permissibly so state. 

 
RFP No. 13: This requests seeks MBUSA to produce “[a]ll DOCUMENTS
which evidence, describe, refer, or relate to any CONTACT or COMMUNICATIONS
between [MBUSA] and the Plaintiff.” In response
to this request, MBUSA objected as follows: vague, ambiguous, and
unintelligible; overbroad and unduly burdensome; information not relevant and
not reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence;
fails to specifically describe each item or reasonably particularize each
category of item; assumes facts that have not been established; is an
incomplete hypothetical; and that the information is equally available to
propounding party. Defendant MBUSA also responded that “after a diligent
search, [MBUSA] does not have any relevant and non-privileged documents
currently in its possession, custody, or control.
 
            The Court GRANTS the
motion as to this request. The Court generally finds discovery seeking
communications between the plaintiff and the warrantor/manufacturer and/or its
servicing dealers concerning the subject vehicle to be relevant and likely admissible.
 For example, many motor vehicle manufacturers
have client communication or customer care centers to field calls and emails from
customers about their vehicle.  The Court
overrules the objections and orders a verified further response.  If in fact there are no such documents and
MBUSA had no communication pre-litigation with Plaintiff, then the amended
response without objections permissibly may so state.  As such, the Court GRANTS this request as to
communications between MBUSA and Plaintiff concerning the subject vehicle. 
 
RFP No. 14: This request asks MBUSA to produce: “[a]ll DOCUMENTS
which evidence, describe, refer, or relate to any CONTACT or COMMUNICATIONS
with any third-parties relating to the SUBJECT VEHICLE.” In response to this request, MBUSA objected as follows: vague,
ambiguous, and unintelligible; overbroad and unduly burdensome; information not
relevant and not reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible
evidence; fails to specifically describe each item or reasonably particularize
each category of item; attorney-client privilege and/or work product doctrine; MBUSA
is not a party to the agreement; seeks information in the possession, custody
and/or control of third parties; seeks information that is confidential,
proprietary and trade secret; seeks information that is proprietary to and
owned by Responding Party; infringes on proprietary rights; privacy rights;
legal conclusion; assumes facts that have not been established; is an
incomplete hypothetical; and argumentative.
 
            The Court DENIES
the motion as to this request on multiple grounds. However, on the grounds of
overbreadth and vagueness along, the Court notes that this request does not
state who the communications are between with the third-parties. Whose contact
or communication with third-parties is asked to be produced? As written, the ambiguous
request is DENIED. 
 
RFP Nos. 15,
18, 21: These requests asks MBUSA to produce “[a]ll DOCUMENTS which
evidence, describe, refer, or relate to YOUR rules, policies, or procedures
since 2020 concerning the issuance of refunds to buyers or providing
replacement vehicles to buyers in the State of California under the
Song-Beverly Consumer Warranty Act” (RFP No. 15); “[a]ll DOCUMENTS which
evidence, describe, refer, or relate to YOUR Policies and Procedures for
determining whether a vehicle should be repurchased or replaced under the
Song-Beverly Act” (RFP No. 18); and “[a]ll DOCUMENTS evidencing and/or
describing YOUR training materials related to [MBUSA’s] policy regarding how to
calculate a repurchase.” In response
to these requests, MBUSA objected as follows: vague, ambiguous, and
unintelligible; overbroad and unduly burdensome; information not relevant and
not reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence;
fails to specifically describe each item or reasonably particularize each
category of item; attorney-client privilege and/or work product doctrine; MBUSA
is not a party to the agreement; seeks information in the possession, custody
and/or control of third parties; seeks information that is confidential, proprietary
and trade secret; seeks information that is proprietary to and owned by
Responding Party; infringes on proprietary rights; privacy rights; legal
conclusion; assumes facts that have not been established; is an incomplete
hypothetical; and argumentative.
            The Court
GRANTS this request in part as to time. Generally, this Court finds that the
applicable Warranty Policy and Procedure Manual published by defendant and
provided to its authorized repair facilities, within the State of California,
for the year the lawsuit was filed is relevant and likely produce
admissible evidence.  If a separate
written policy, procedure, or manual exists regarding repurchases or buy backs
appliable to vehicles sold or leased in California, that would also be required
to be produced for the year the lawsuit was filed and/or the year Plaintiff
contends the vehicle became qualified for repurchase (such as upon satisfaction
of the Presentation Element of a Song-Beverly cause of action under Section
1793.2(d)(2) or 1793.22).  Such documents
should be produced subject to a protective order.
            As such,
this Court GRANTS this request, but limits the year to the year the lawsuit was
filed, and/or the year Plaintiff contends the vehicle became qualified for
repurchase pursuant to a protective order. 
RFP Nos. 16-17:
These requests seek from MBUSA, all documents which evidence, describe, refer,
or relate to MBUSA’s call center policies and procedures for escalating
customer complaints relating to any defects present in their vehicle (RFP No.
16), and for creating a service activity in response to a customer complaint
relating to any defects present in their vehicle (RFP No. 17). In response to these requests, MBUSA objected as follows: vague,
ambiguous, and unintelligible; overbroad and unduly burdensome; information not
relevant and not reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible
evidence; fails to specifically describe each item or reasonably particularize
each category of item; attorney-client privilege and/or work product doctrine; MBUSA
is not a party to the agreement; seeks information in the possession, custody
and/or control of third parties; seeks information that is confidential,
proprietary and trade secret; seeks information that is proprietary to and
owned by Responding Party; infringes on proprietary rights; privacy rights;
legal conclusion; assumes facts that have not been established; is an
incomplete hypothetical; and argumentative.
 
            The Court notes
that it finds the information sought relevant, but notes that the length of
time sought is required to be narrowed to the relevant period of time for this
case. The Court is inclined to GRANT these requests, in part, so long as they
are limited to the year Plaintiff’s vehicle became qualified for repurchase
pursuant to a protective order.   While the
word “escalating” is somewhat ambiguous, the Court finds that the normal
dictionary definition should be applicable here, i.e., to raise to another or
the next level.  That means, if there is
a policy or procedure for a call center employee to raise or escalate a contact
with a customer to a supervisor or other person above the level of the call
center employee, those are the policies or procedures to produce.  
 
RFP Nos. 19, 20: This request seeks MBUSA to produce “[a]ll DOCUMENTS
which evidence, describe, refer, or relate to any flow charts used by YOU for
the purpose of escalating customer complaints.” (RFP No. 19.) Further, RFP No.
20 requests: “All DOCUMENTS which evidence, describe, refer, or relate to any
flow charts used by [MBUSA] for the purpose of evaluating whether a vehicle
qualifies for repurchase or replacement under the Song-Beverly Act.”
 
            The Court first would limit the time
and scope of this RFP, which could have been accomplished in the
meet-and-confer process, to the year in which Plaintiff communicated with a
customer service call center or pre-litigation department, and to only those
employees responsible for customer contacts from Southern California. As such,
the Court GRANTS this request in part pursuant to the limitation. If, for
example, there is no flow chart or diagram, the further verified response without
objection should state the reason for any inability to comply with this
RFP.  
RFP No. 30: This request seeks MBUSA to produce
“[a]ll DOCUMENTS, in the form of a list or compilation, of other Customer
Complaints in [MBUSA’s] electronically stored information of database(s) that
are SUBSTANTIALLY SIMILAR to complaints made by Plaintiff with respect to the
SUBJECT VEHICLE in other 2021 Mercedes Benz G-class vehicles. The request
clarifies that “SUBSTANTIALLY SIMILAR” shall mean similar customer complaint
that would be the same nature of the reported system, malfunction, trouble
code, Technical Service Bulletin Recommendation, dashboard indicator light, or
other manifestation of a repair problem, as description listed in any warranty
summary or repair order for the SUBJECT VEHICLE. [The customer complaints in
this matter can be found in Defendant’s warranty history/summary and within the
line items of the repair orders created at Defendant’s authorized repair
facility. If YOU are having issues determining Plaintiff’s Complaints,
Plaintiff is willing to meet and confer and list out the specific complaints
and the language used to describe them. This should not include any routine or
scheduled maintenance items.].
            First, this
Court notes that the “similar customer complaint being of the same nature of
the subject vehicle” is vague and compound based on the listed alleged defects.
The RFP on its face recognizes the vagueness and compound nature of the request
by its offer to meet and confer as to what the RFP means, and because the RFP
is no complete in and of itself but rather requires the responding party to
refer back and for the to a repair history or to multiple other records.     The Court DENIES this Request without prejudice
to a more specific RFP or RFPs.  For future
reference and guidance,  this Court
typically allows discovery as to other customers’ complaints, limited to vehicles
purchased in California for the same year, make and model of the subject
vehicle.   Further, this Court generally limits the other
customer complaints in scope to the description of the symptom as shown on the
dealer repair records, not merely the symptoms as characterized in the pleadings.  The Court typically discusses with counsel
the type of documents that may be required and the format for a production of
documents such as in a sortable Excel spreadsheet that lists a compilation or
summary of voluminous documents. 
Finally, the Court typically limits discovery of other customer complains
to repair symptoms in the subject vehicle that appeared on two or more repair
visits.  
RFP No. 31: This request seeks “[a]ll DOCUMENTS that
refer to, reflect, or relate to any Field Service Action issued, or in the
process of being issued, in response to complaints experienced by Plaintiff as
described in Defendant’s warranty history/summary and within the line items of
the repair orders created at Defendant’s authorized repair facility.”
            The Court DENIES
this RFP without prejudice to a future, more tailored request that takes into
account the points raised by the Court as to RFP No. 30.  
IV. CONCLUSION 
 
For
the foregoing reasons, Plaintiff’s Motion to Compel Further Responses to Requests
for Production of Documents is GRANTED in part and DENIED in part. 
 
Plaintiff
is ordered to give notice. 
 
 