 Case Number:  23NWCV01602    Hearing Date:   January 11, 2024    Dept:  C ARROYO v. US VI
DOWNEY, LLC 
CASE NO.: 23NWCV01602
HEARING:  01/11/24
 
#4
 
     I.       
Plaintiff’s Demurrer to Defendant STIX HOLDINGS,
LLC’s First Amended Answer is SUSTAINED without leave to amend.  
 
    II.       
Plaintiff’s Motion to Strike Portions of
Defendant STIX HOLDINGS, LLC’s First Amended Answer is DENIED. 
 
Moving Party to give notice. 
 
No Opposition filed as of January 8, 2024.  
 
This discrimination
action was filed on May 25, 2023. 
 
On August 8, 2023,
Defendant STIX HOLDINGS, LLC (“Defendant”) filed the subject First Amended
Answer (“FAA”) to Plaintiff’s First Amended Complaint (“FAC”). In the FAA,
Defendant asserts a general denial, and eighteen affirmative defenses. 

Plaintiff now demurs to Defendant’s FAA and concurrently moves to strike the
factual denials and admissions contained therein. 
 
Demurrer
 
Plaintiff’s unopposed Demurrer to Defendant’s first through
seventh affirmative defenses is SUSTAINED without leave to amend for failure to
state facts sufficient to constitute an affirmative defense. 
 
CCP §430.20(a) states that a demurrer to an Answer is
properly sustained where, “[t]he answer does not state facts sufficient to
constitute a defense.” Here, Defendant’s FAA consists of legal conclusions,
devoid of factual support. No facts are alleged to support any Defendant’s first
through seventh affirmative defenses. Rather, “the allegations are proffered in
the form of terse legal conclusions, rather than as facts ‘averred as carefully
and with as much detail as the facts which constitute the cause of action and
are alleged in the complaint. [Cite.]” (FPI Development, Inc. v. Nakashima
(1991) 231 Cal.App.3d 367, 384.) 
 
Defendant did not file an Opposition to the Demurrer. Therefore, the
Court knows of no basis to grant leave to amend.  The demurrer to the first through seventh
affirmative defenses is therefore SUSTAINED without leave to amend.
 
Motion to Strike 
 
Plaintiff
moves to strike Defendant’s factual denials and admissions.
 
A motion to strike lies either when (1) there is “irrelevant, false or
improper matter inserted in any pleading”; or (2) to strike any pleading or
part thereof “not drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of this state, a
court rule or order of court.” (CCP §436.)
 
“If the complaint is verified, unless the complaint is subject to
Article 2…the denial of the allegations shall be made positively or according
to the information and belief of the defendant…. (e) If the defendant has no
information or belief upon the subject sufficient to enable him or her to
answer an allegation of the complaint, he or she may so state in his or her
answer and place his or her denial on that ground. (f) The denials of the
allegations controverted may be stated by reference to specific paragraphs or
parts of the complaint; or by express admission of certain allegations of the
complaint with a general denial of all of the allegations not so admitted; or
by denial of certain allegations upon information and belief, or for lack of
sufficient information or belief, with a general denial of all allegations not
so denied or expressly admitted.” (CCP §431.30(d)-(f).) 
 
Contrary to the arguments raised in the subject Motion, there is no
requirement for specificity when making denials in a verified Answer. Moreover,
the remainder of the arguments raised in the subject Motion involve factual
determinations improperly decided at this stage in the litigation. 
 
The Motion to Strike Defendant’s factual denials and admissions is
DENIED. 
 