 Case Number:  22NWCV01005    Hearing Date:   January 11, 2024    Dept:  C ZHENG v. SOUTHLAND
TRANSIT, INC. 
CASE
NO.:  22NWCV01005
HEARING:  01/11/24
 
#3
 
Defendants
SOUTHLAND TRANSIT, INC.; LOS ANGELES METROPOLITAN TRANSIT AUTHORITY; and SANDRA
SCHREINER’s Motion to Consolidate is GRANTED.
This action (22NWCV01005) (“the Subject Action”) is hereby consolidated with Locklin v. Southland Transit Inc. (23NWCV02054), with the Subject Action acting as the
lead case.
 
All
dates in case number 23NWCV02054 are hereby VACATED. The dates already set in the Subject Action remain set. 
 
Moving
Party to give Notice. 
 
Trial
courts may consolidate actions involving common questions of law or fact. (CCP
§1048.) Consolidating actions does not affect the rights of the parties.
Consolidation’s purpose is to avoid unnecessary costs or delay, avoid
procedural duplication, particularly in proof or
issues common to both actions, and avoid inconsistent results by hearing and
deciding common issues together. (Estate of Baker (1982) 131 Cal.App.3d
471, 485.) Deciding a motion to consolidate rests in the trial court’s sounds
discretion and will not be reversed except upon a clear abuse of discretion
showing. (Feliner v. Steinbaum (1955) 132 Cal.App.2d 509, 511.) Two
types of consolidation are available: “(a) When actions involving a common
question of law or fact are pending before the court, it may order a joint
hearing or trial of any or all the matters in issue in the actions; it may
order all the actions consolidated and it may make such orders concerning
proceedings therein as may tend to avoid unnecessary costs or delay. (b) The
court, in furtherance of convenience or to avoid prejudice, or when separate
trial will be conducive to expedition and economy, may order a sperate trial of
any cause of action, including a cause of action asserted in a cross-complaint,
or of any separate issue or of any number of causes of action or issues,
preserving the right of trial by jury….” (CCP §1048.) 
 
Each
case presents its own facts and circumstances, but trial courts generally
consider the following factors: (1) the timeliness of the motion: whether
granting consolidation would delay the trial of any of the cases involved; (2)
complexity: whether joining the actions involved would make the trial too
confusing or complex for a jury; and (3) prejudice: whether consolidation would
adversely affect the rights of any party (State Farm Mut. Auto. Ins. Co. v.
Superior Court (1956) 47 Cal.2d.428, 430-431.) In deciding a motion
consolidate, a court should weigh whether the common issues predominate over
the individual issues and whether any risks of jury confusion or prejudice to
the parties outweigh reducing time and expense that would result from the
consolidation. (Todd-Stenberg v. Shield (1996) 48 Cal.App.4th 946, 978.)

 
In
its Moving Papers, Defendants argue that consolidation for all purposes is
proper where Case Numbers 22NWCV01005 and 23NWCV02054 arise from the same motor
vehicle accident; involve all of the same witnesses, including the occupants of
the same vehicle, the same emergency response personnel; and some of the same
experts. Defendants maintain that consolidation will avoid duplicative
litigation of common issues of law and fact.  
 
The
Court notes that Defendants’ request to continue the February 2, 2024 trial
date is MOOT. Trial is currently scheduled for October 1, 2024. 
 
In
Opposition, the Zheng Plaintiffs argue that Plaintiff Grace Tsai is a minor,
and thus entitled to a mandatory trial preference. The Zheng Plaintiffs
indicate that they intend to move for preference. However, at time, no such
Motion is on file with the Court. The Zheng Plaintiffs additionally argue that,
although the related actions stem from the same accident, the defense has
already stipulated to liability and consolidation is not necessary because the
only issues for trial will be the separate and distinct issues of each
plaintiffs’ damages. 
 
It
is undisputed that both cases involve the same operative facts—same
multi-vehicle car accident that occurred on February 8, 2022. It is also
undisputed that the related cases involve the same parties and will likely
involve some or all of the same witnesses. In the interests of judicial
efficiency, the Court finds that the actions involve common questions of law
and fact, and should be consolidated. Therefore, the Motion to Consolidate is
GRANTED. The issues of severance, bifurcation or any other related issues may
be raised by the parties at a later time, if necessary. 