 Case Number:  23NWCV00470    Hearing Date:   January 11, 2024    Dept:  C LOPEZ v. TOLLISON
CASE
NO.:  23NWCV00470                                
HEARING:  01/11/24
 
#7
 
Defendant
TOLLISON’s unopposed Motion for Leave to File a Cross-Complaint is GRANTED. 
 
Moving
Party to give Notice. 
 
No
Opposition filed as of January 8, 2024. 
 
The
proposed Cross-Complaint, attached as Exhibit A to the Declaration of Luis A.
Valencia is NOT deemed filed and
served as of the hearing date.  Moving Party is ORDERED to FILE the
Cross-Complaint within 5 court days of the Court’s issuance of this Order.
Responsive pleadings are to be filed in accordance with the rules of civil
procedure.
 
This
action concerning real property was filed by Plaintiffs FRANCISCO LOPEZ and
CASSANDRA TAMAYO (collectively “Plaintiffs”) against Defendant DENNIS TOLLISON
(“Defendant” or “Tollison”) and DOES 1-50 on February 14, 2023. 
 
Defendant
Tollison now seeks leave to file a cross-complaint containing causes of action
for: (1) Breach of Contract; (2) Waste; (3) Negligence; (4) Common Law Assault
and Battery; (5) Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress; and (6) Fraud.  
 
CCP
§428.50 states: “(a) A party shall file a cross-complaint against any of the
parties who filed the complaint or cross-complaint against him or her before or
at the same time as the answer to the complaint or cross-complaint. (b) Any
other cross-complaint may be filed at any time before the court has set a date
for trial. (c) A party shall obtain leave of court to file any cross-complaint
except one filed within the time specified in subdivision (a) or (b). Leave may
be granted in the interest of justice at any time during the course of action.”
CCP §426.50 states, “A party who fails to plead a cause of action…whether
through oversight, inadvertence, mistake, neglect, or other cause, may apply to
the court for leave to amend his pleading, or to file a cross-complaint, to
assert such cause at any time during the course of the action. The court, after
notice to the adverse party, shall grant, upon such terms as may be just to the
parties, leave to amend the pleading, or to file the cross-complaint…if the party
who failed to plead the cause acted in good faith. This subdivision shall be
liberally construed to avoid forfeiture of causes of action.”
 
Given
the liberal construction associated with permitting leave to file a
cross-complaint, and the lack of Opposition to the instant Motion, the Court
finds that it would serve the interests of justice to grant the Motion. It is
best to avoid multiplicity or duplicity of actions. The Motion is GRANTED. 