 Case Number:  23STCV11722    Hearing Date:   October 13, 2023    Dept:  50 Superior
Court of California
County
of Los Angeles
Department 50
 



MARLENE CORNEJO, 
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
 
ATLANTIC SOLUTIONS GROUP INC., et al.
                        Defendants.


Case No.:


23STCV11722




Hearing Date:


October 13, 2023




Hearing
  Time:    10:00 a.m. 
 
TENTATIVE RULING
  RE: 
 
DEFENDANTS’ MOTION TO COMPEL ARBITRATION AND STAY ACTION;
PETITION TO COMPEL ARBITRATION



            
            Background
Plaintiff Marlene
Cornejo (“Plaintiff”) filed this action on May 24, 2023 against Defendants
Atlantic Solutions Group Inc., doing business as Empire Workforce Solutions and
Adam Kidan. The Complaint alleges causes of action for (1) declaratory
relief-arbitration, (2) declaratory relief – recusal of counsel, (3)
declaratory relief – profit share, (4) accounting, (5) wages, (6) wrongful
termination, (7) vacation pay, and (8) unfair business practices. 
In the Complaint, Plaintiff alleges that “as of September 30, 2020, Defendants retained [Plaintiff] as a Branch
Manager for two separate
Branches, one in Los Angeles County and the other in Orange County.” (Compl., ¶
14.) Plaintiff alleges that a “June 15, 2021 written Employment Agreement”
contained terms of Plaintiff’s employment. (Compl., ¶ 15.) The agreement
provided, inter alia, that “[e]mployee shall participate in the Branch
Profit from the Orange County Branch and Commerce, CA Branch operations, which
operations she directly
Oversees,” and that “[t]he profit share
shall be ten percent (10%) of the net profits of the Branch Profit prior to any
corporate allocations and shall consist of the revenue for the branch less all
branch and client related expenses and costs.” (Compl., ¶ 15.) Plaintiff
alleges that “Defendants’ President, Adam Kidan, subsequently orally asserted a
reduced amount of the Branch Profit Share (both retroactively and assumedly
prospectively), asserting that factors not reflected in the written Agreement
warranted the reduction,” and that “Defendants subsequently unilaterally
asserted modification of the Branch Profit Share Agreement…” (Compl., ¶¶
17-18.) Plaintiff alleges that “[a]t no time did Defendants pay [Plaintiff] her
full Branch Profit Share.” (Compl., ¶ 20.) 
Atlantic Solutions
Group, Inc. d/b/a Empire Workforce Solutions (“Empire”) and Adam R. Kidan (“Kidan”)
(jointly, “Defendants”) now move to compel arbitration and to stay this matter.
Plaintiff opposes. 
Legal Standard
In a motion to compel
arbitration, the moving party must prove by a preponderance of evidence the
existence of the arbitration agreement and that the dispute is covered by the
agreement. The burden then shifts to the resisting party to prove by a preponderance
of evidence a ground for denial (e.g.,
fraud, unconscionability, etc.). (Rosenthal
v. Great Western Fin. Securities Corp. (1996) 14 Cal.4th 394, 413-414.)  
Generally, on a petition
to compel arbitration, the court must grant the petition unless it finds either
(1) no written agreement to arbitrate exists; (2) the right to compel
arbitration has been waived; (3) grounds exist for revocation of the agreement;
or (4) litigation is pending that may render the arbitration unnecessary or
create conflicting rulings on common issues. (Code
Civ. Proc., § 1281.2; see
Condee v. Longwood Management Corp. (2001)
88 Cal.App.4th 215, 218-219.) 
“California has a strong
public policy in favor of arbitration and any doubts regarding the
arbitrability of a dispute are resolved in favor of arbitration.” (Coast Plaza Doctors Hospital v. Blue Cross of
California (2000) 83 Cal.App.4th
677, 686.) “This strong policy has
resulted in the general rule that arbitration should be upheld unless it can be
said with assurance that an arbitration clause is not susceptible to an
interpretation covering the asserted dispute.” (Ibid. [internal quotations omitted].) This is in accord with the liberal federal policy favoring
arbitration agreements under the Federal Arbitration Act (“FAA”), which governs
all agreements to arbitrate in contracts “involving interstate commerce.” (9 U.S.C. § 2, et
seq.; Higgins
v. Superior Court (2006) 140 Cal.App.4th 1238, 1247.) 
            Discussion
A.    Existence of Arbitration Agreement
Defendants indicate that
Plaintiff worked for Empire from approximately March 20, 2019 through October
28, 2022. (Palazzolo Decl., ¶ 4.) Defendants state that “[a]s of September 30,
2020, [Plaintiff] executed an Employment Agreement in connection with her
change of position from Operations Manager to Branch Manager, which included an
Agreement to Arbitrate as Exhibit A.” (Palazzolo Decl., ¶ 5.) Defendants
further state that “[a]s of June 15, 2021, [Plaintiff] executed a revised
Employment Agreement, also attaching an Agreement to Arbitrate, 
a true copy of which is attached as
Exhibit 2.” (Palazzolo Decl., ¶ 6, Ex. 2.) The June 15, 2021 Employment
Agreement attaches an “Agreement to Arbitrate” as Exhibit A, which provides, inter
alia, as follows: 
 
“This
Agreement to Arbitrate is made a part of the Employment Agreement set forth
above. It shall survive termination, cancellation, or revocation of the
Employment Agreement, but is otherwise subject to the terms of that agreement,
including the terms regarding severability and modification.
 
Employer and
Employee agree that it is in their best interests to resolve any and all
disputes, claims, or controversies, of any kind, arising from or relating in
any way to the foregoing Employment Agreement, the interpretation, performance,
breach, or enforcement of that agreement, or the employment relationship
between them, including, without limitation, hiring, work performance and
conduct, wages, hours, working conditions, compensation, benefits, and/or
termination or resignation (collectively, “Disputes”) through final and binding
arbitration. Employer and Employee acknowledge that arbitration may provide for
a more flexible, inexpensive, and expeditious dispute-resolution process and
desire the benefits of flexibility and efficiency of arbitration.” 
 
(Palazzolo
Decl., ¶ 6, Ex. 2, Ex. A.) 
Defendants also assert
that “Kidan is entitled to enforce the Agreement to arbitrate.” (Mot. at p.
9:11.) Defendants note that in the Complaint, Plaintiff alleges that “Adam
Kidan is personally liable for payment of the unpaid wages as an alter ego of
the entity Defendants,” and that “[i]n addition, Mr. Kidan is personally liable
for non-payment of wages as an owner, director,, [sic] officer, or managing
agent of the entity Defendants…” (Compl., ¶¶ 72-73.) Defendants cite to Thomas v.
Westlake (2012) 204 Cal.App.4th 605, 614, where the Court of Appeal noted that “[t]here are, however,
exceptions to the general rule that a nonsignatory … cannot invoke an agreement
to arbitrate, without being a party to the arbitration agreement. One such
exception provides that when a plaintiff alleges a defendant acted as an agent
of a party to an arbitration agreement, the defendant may enforce the agreement
even though the defendant is not a party thereto.” (Internal quotations and citation omitted.) 
Plaintiff does not appear to dispute that
Kidan may enforce the Agreement to Arbitrate.   
In addition, Plaintiff does not dispute that she entered
into the June 15, 2021
Employment Agreement and attached Agreement to Arbitrate. Based on the
foregoing, the Court finds that Defendants
have demonstrated the existence of an arbitration agreement. 
As to whether the
instant dispute is covered by subject Agreement to Arbitrate, Plaintiff asserts
that the “carve-outs from arbitration in the agreement to arbitrate cannot be
arbitrated.” (Opp’n at p. 13:3-4.) Plaintiff notes that the Agreement to
Arbitrate contains a provision that “[n]othing in this agreement shall prohibit
a party from filing an action in court to secure purely injunctive relief or
specific performance of a contract, or to seek provision [sic] remedies such as
preliminary injunctions or temporary restraining orders.” (Palazzolo Decl., ¶
6, Ex. 2, Ex. A, p. 9.) Plaintiff notes that the Complaint contains causes of
action for “declaratory relief-arbitration,” “declaratory relief –
recusal of counsel,” “declaratory relief – profit share,” and “accounting.”
Plaintiff asserts that “[n]one of
these causes of action overtly seek damages. All are preliminary. They are all properly alleged
judicial causes of action.” (Opp’n at p. 13:10-11.)
Defendants counter that
Plaintiff “does not seek ‘purely’ injunctive relief or provisional remedies.
She seeks final declaratory relief, accounting, and money damages.” (Reply at
p. 8:20-21.) In addition, Defendants assert that Plaintiff “offers no authority
or coherent argument for how a party, after agreeing to delegate issues of
arbitrability, can ask the Court for ‘declaratory relief’ as to arbitrability –
i.e., precisely the issue she agreed to arbitrate. Similarly,
repackaging basic employment claims as claims for equitable relief does not
change the outcome.” (Mot. at p. 8:21-24.) 
With regards to the
delegation argument, Defendants assert in the motion that “[t]he delegation
clause is clear, enforceable and requires all of [Plaintiff’s] defenses to be
submitted to the Arbitrator.” (Mot. at p. 6:5-6.) The subject Agreement to
Arbitrate provides as follows: 
 
“Any and all
Disputes that are not resolved through mediation shall be decided by final
binding arbitration before JAMS at the JAMS location nearest Employee’s primary
place of work for Employer. The arbitration shall be administered by JAMS
pursuant to its Employment Arbitration Rules and Procedures, a copy of which
are available at: https://www.jamsadr.com/rulesemployment-arbitration (the
“JAMS Rules”). Arbitration shall be before one neutral arbitrator. The
arbitrator shall have authority to determine his or her jurisdiction, including
to resolve all issue of “arbitrability.” The arbitrator’s award(s) will be
final, subject to California law regarding confirmation and/or vacating or
modifying an arbitration award.” 
(Palazzolo Decl., ¶ 6,
Ex. 2, Ex. A, p. 9, emphasis added.)
Defendants cite to Aanderud v.
Superior Court (2017) 13 Cal.App.5th 880, 891, where the Court of Appeal noted that “parties can agree to arbitrate
gateway questions of arbitrability, such as whether the parties have agreed to
arbitrate or whether their agreement covers a particular controversy. Just as
the arbitrability of the merits of a dispute depends upon whether the parties
agreed to arbitrate that dispute, … so the question who has the primary power
to decide arbitrability turns upon what the parties agreed about that matter.” (Internal quotations, citation, and emphasis
omitted.) “There are
two prerequisites for a delegation clause to be effective. First, the language of the
clause must be clear and unmistakable…Second, the delegation must not be revocable under state contract
defenses such as fraud, duress, or unconscionability.” (Id. at
p. 892.) 
Defendants asserts that the delegation clause in the Agreement
to Arbitrate here is clear and unmistakable, as it states that “[t]he
arbitrator shall have authority to determine his or her jurisdiction, including
to resolve all issue of ‘arbitrability.’” (Palazzolo Decl., ¶ 6, Ex. 2,
Ex. A, p. 9.) 
In addition, as set
forth above, the Agreement to Arbitrate provides that “[t]he arbitration shall
be administered by JAMS pursuant to its Employment Arbitration Rules and
Procedures, a copy of which are available at:
https://www.jamsadr.com/rulesemployment-arbitration (the ‘JAMS Rules’).”
(Palazzolo Decl., ¶ 6, Ex. 2, Ex. A, p. 9.) The
parties note that Rule 11(b) of the “JAMS Rules” provides that “Jurisdictional and arbitrability
disputes, including disputes over the formation, existence, validity,
interpretation or scope of the agreement under which Arbitration is sought, and
who are proper Parties to the Arbitration, shall be submitted to and ruled on
by the Arbitrator. Unless the relevant law requires otherwise, the Arbitrator
has the authority to determine jurisdiction and arbitrability issues as a
preliminary matter.” (See Josefsberg Decl., ¶ 4, Ex. F.) In Aanderud v.
Superior Court, supra, 13 Cal.App.5th at page 892, cited by Defendants, the Court of Appeal
noted that “[a]n arbitration provision’s reference to,
or incorporation of, arbitration rules that give the arbitrator the power or
responsibility to decide issues of arbitrability may constitute clear and
unmistakable evidence the parties intended the arbitrator to decide those
issues.” 
In the opposition, Plaintiff contends that “[t]he purported delegation
clause here neither clearly nor unmistakably provides gateway authority to an
arbitrator to make jurisdictional or arbitrability determinations.” (Opp’n at p. 4:20-22.) More specifically, Plaintiff
asserts that “[t]he clause
does not propose examples or plain English to distinguish itself from the
Dispute-related language of the rest of the Paragraph. Rather, this clause
gives the arbitrator the authority (but not exclusive authority)
‘to determine jurisdiction, and ‘arbitrability’…it is opaque whether it
supplants this Court’s authority.” (Opp’n at p. 4:28-5:4.) But a set forth
above, the delegation clause clearly provides that “[t]he arbitrator shall
have authority to determine his or her jurisdiction, including to resolve all
issue of ‘arbitrability.’” (Palazzolo Decl., ¶ 6, Ex. 2, Ex. A, p. 9,
emphasis added.) 
Plaintiff further
asserts that “[t]he legalese in the purported delegation is not clear or even
intelligible to [Plaintiff]…and is unclear from any standard.” (Opp’n at p.
5:27-28.) In her supporting declaration, Plaintiff states that “[p]aragraph
Four gives authority to an arbitrator to resolve ‘arbitrability.’ I cannot
begin to understand what ‘arbitrability’ might mean; had the Agreement to
Arbitrate given examples, perhaps that would have been clear. I really cannot
say because ‘arbitrability’ is just not a word I know.” (Cornejo Decl., ¶ 7.) Defendants
assert that the fact that “arbitrability” is “just not a word [Plaintiff]
know[s]” is not a basis to invalidate the provision. (Reply at p. 3:10-12.) Defendants
cite to Randas v. YMCA of Metropolitan Los Angeles (1993) 17 Cal.App.4th
158, 163, where the Court
of Appeal noted that “[o]rdinarily, one who accepts or signs an instrument,
which on its face is a contract, is deemed to assent to all its terms, and
cannot escape liability on the ground that he has not read it. If he cannot
read, he should have it read or explained to him. This is not only the
California but the general rule.” (Internal
quotations and citation omitted.) 
In the opposition, Plaintiff
also cites to Baker v. Osborne Development Corp. (2008) 159 Cal.App.4th
884, 893-894, where the
Court of Appeal noted that “[h]ere, the trial court found the arbitration
agreement was ambiguous on the issue of whether arbitrability was to be
determined by the arbitrator. In our independent judgment, we agree with the trial court that
although one provision of the arbitration agreement stated that issues of
enforceability or voidability were to be decided by the arbitrator, another
provision indicated that the court might find a provision unenforceable. Thus,
we conclude the arbitration agreement did not ‘clearly and unmistakably’
reserve to the arbitrator the issue of whether the arbitration agreement was
enforceable.” (Internal citation
omitted.) Plaintiff contends that “[h]ere, the Employment Agreement has a Modification Clause
in the passive voice that gives no idea how or by whom contract
terms may be ‘deemed’ invalid or unenforceable, thereby impairing
clarity of the delegation clause.” (Opp’n at p. 6:6-8, emphasis in original.) 
The Court notes that
Plaintiff does not cite to any particular provision of the Employment
Agreement, so it is unclear what specific “Modification Clause”
Plaintiff is referring to. Plaintiff could be referring to Paragraph 11(d) of
the June 15, 2021 Employment Agreement, which provides, “Modification. If any
term of this New Agreement is deemed invalid or unenforceable for any reason,
it shall be modified to the minimum extent necessary to render it valid and
enforceable. To the extent that any provision cannot be rendered valid and
enforceable through modification, it shall be deemed severed, and shall not
affect the validity or enforceability of any other provision.” (Palazzolo
Decl., ¶ 6, Ex. 2, ¶ 11(d).) To the extent Plaintiff is referring to this
provision, the Court does not see how it impairs the clarity of the delegation
clause which, as set forth above, provides that “[t]he arbitrator shall have
authority to determine his or her jurisdiction, including to resolve all issue
of ‘arbitrability.’” (Palazzolo Decl., ¶ 6, Ex. 2, Ex. A, p. 9.) Unlike in Baker,
Plaintiff does not appear to cite to any provision in the Agreement to
Arbitrate indicating
that the “court” might find a provision unenforceable.
As set forth above, the
Agreement to Arbitrate also provides that “[n]othing in this agreement shall
prohibit a party from filing an action in court to secure purely injunctive
relief or specific performance of a contract, or to seek provision [sic] remedies
such as preliminary injunctions or temporary restraining orders.” (Palazzolo
Decl., ¶ 6, Ex. 2, Ex. A, p. 9.) Plaintiff asserts that this provision adds “to
the lack of clarity of delegation” because if “‘nothing in this agreement shall
prohibit’ such judicial remedies, there is nothing for an arbitrator to do
about such remedies.” (Opp’n at p. 6:12; 6:15-16.) Defendants assert that the
“provision allowing the parties to sue for injunctive or provisional relief has
nothing to do with delegation.” (Reply at p. 3:22-23.) Indeed, the Court does
not see how the provision allowing the parties to seek injunctive relief makes
the delegation clause unclear.   
Plaintiff also asserts that “relevant law now rejects any delegation
of jurisdiction or bare arbitrability to the
arbitrator.” (Opp’n at p. 7:2-3.) In support of this assertion, Plaintiff cites
to
Williams v.
West Coast Hospitals, Inc. (2022) 86 Cal.App.5th 1054, 1071. But in Williams, the Court of Appeal noted that “[t]he threshold issue of
arbitrability is, in this respect, no different from any other dispute
that the parties may agree to send to arbitration—the court has jurisdiction
until it decides to defer the issue to the arbitrator pursuant to the parties’
waivable contractual rights; and even then it continues to hold the action in
abatement…Thus, even if we assume that the parties did agree to delegate
the section 1281.98 issue to the
arbitrator, a contractual right to an arbitral resolution of that issue does
not of itself divest the court of jurisdiction: the parties may abandon—or
forfeit—the contractual right and submit the matter to the court. (See In re Checking Account
Overdraft Litigation (11th Cir. 2012) 672 F.3d 1224, 1228 (Checking Account Overdraft Litigation) [holding that party
waived its right to arbitrate the conscionability of the arbitration clause by
asking the district court to decide the conscionability challenge, rather than
invoking the delegation clause]…” Here, Defendants have invoked the subject
delegation clause. In addition, the Court does not see how Williams demonstrates that “relevant law now rejects any delegation of jurisdiction or bare
arbitrability to the arbitrator…” (Opp’n at p.
7:2-3.) Plaintiff also cites to Gallo v. Wood Ranch USA, Inc. (2022) 81 Cal.App.5th
621, 646, where the Court
of Appeal noted that “Dekker did not purport to overturn Sink but instead held that the question of
whether a party had breached the agreement by nonpayment was one for the
arbitrator, not the court, because the arbitration agreement there delegated
issues of ‘breach, default, or termination’ to the arbitrator; indeed, Dekker could not have overruled Sink because Dekker is an unpublished memorandum disposition…” (Internal citation omitted.) The Court also does not see
how Gallo demonstrates that “relevant law now rejects any delegation
of jurisdiction or bare arbitrability to the
arbitrator…” (Opp’n at p. 7:2-3.)
Based on the foregoing, the Court finds that
Defendants have the better argument that the language of the delegation clause
is clear and unmistakable.
            Plaintiff also argues in the
opposition that “regardless of any clarity of the delegation clause, it is
unconscionable.” (Opp’n at p. 7:7-8.) Plaintiff acknowledges that “any claim of unconscionability must
be specific to the delegation
clause.” (Tiri v. Lucky Chances, Inc. (2014)
226 Cal.App.4th 231, 244 [emphasis in original].) 
             Procedural unconscionability concerns the manner
in which the contract was negotiated and the parties’ circumstances
at that time. It focuses on the factors of oppression or surprise. (Kinney v. United Healthcare Servs. (1999) 70 Cal.App.4th 1322, 1329.)
“Oppression generally takes the form of a contract of adhesion, which, imposed
and drafted by the party of superior bargaining strength, relegates to the
subscribing party only the opportunity to adhere to the contract or reject it.
In the case of arbitration agreements in the employment context, the economic
pressure exerted by employers on all but the most sought-after employees may be particularly
acute, for the arbitration agreement stands between the employee and necessary
employment, and few employees are in a position to refuse a job because of an
arbitration requirement.” (Carmona v. Lincoln
Millennium Car Wash, Inc. (2014)
226 Cal.App.4th 74, 84 [internal quotations and citations omitted].)
“Surprise involves the extent to which the supposedly agreed-upon terms of the
bargain are hidden in a prolix printed form drafted by the party seeking to
enforce the disputed terms.” (A & M Produce Co.
v. FMC Corp. (1982) 135 Cal.App.3d
473, 486 [internal quotations omitted].) 
            Plaintiff asserts that “the entire Agreement is an adhesion
contract, which Defendants provided on a take-it-or leave it basis without discussion or any participation by [Plaintiff]
in drafting or negotiation.” (Opp’n at p. 7:20-21.) The Court notes that
Plaintiff does not appear to cite to any evidence to support this statement. In addition, the
Court notes that while it is true that “¿the existence of
contract of adhesion supports a finding of procedural conscionability,¿” a court must
still weigh the level of procedural unconscionability against any substantive
unconscionability to determine whether the agreement can be enforced. (¿¿Baxter v. Genworth North America Corp.
(2017) 16 Cal.App.5th 713, 723¿¿.) “¿When … there is
no other indication of oppression or surprise, ‘the degree of procedural
unconscionability of an adhesion agreement is low, and the agreement will be
enforceable unless the degree of substantive unconscionability is high.’¿” (Serpa v.
California Surety Investigations, Inc. (2013) 215 Cal.App.4th 695, 704¿¿.)   
            Plaintiff also asserts that “[t]he delegation clause itself is
hidden in Paragraph Four, which commences discussion of workplace ‘Disputes,’ not delegation of disputes about
arbitration.” (Opp’n at p. 2:24-25, emphasis omitted.) Defendants counter that
“[t]he provision is not buried in a ‘prolix printed form.’…It is in a one-page,
standalone arbitration agreement in the paragraph describing the scope of
arbitration.” (Reply at p. 4:25-27.) 
In
addition, “¿[s]ubstantive unconscionability pertains
to the fairness of an agreement’s actual terms and to assessments of whether
they are overly harsh or one-sided. A contract term is not substantively
unconscionable when it merely gives one side a greater benefit; rather, the term
must be so one-sided as to shock the conscience.¿” (¿¿Carmona v.
Lincoln Millennium Car Wash, Inc.,
supra, 226 Cal.App.4th at p. 85 [internal quotation and citation omitted]¿¿.)  
Plaintiff
argues that “[t]he
clause itself is perfunctory, using legalese like ‘jurisdiction,’ and
‘arbitrability,’” such that it is “impenetrable to a lay reader.” (Opp’n at p. 8:1-2.) Defendants
counter that Plaintiff “fails to show any unfairness relating to the delegation clause itself,
which is facially neutral.” (Reply at p. 5:10-11.) As set
forth above, “[a] contract
term is not substantively unconscionable when it merely gives one side a
greater benefit; rather, the term must be so one-sided as to shock the
conscience.” (Carmona v. Lincoln Millennium Car Wash,
Inc., supra, 226
Cal.App.4th at p. 85 [internal quotations omitted].) The Court does not
find that Plaintiff has demonstrated that the delegation clause is so one-sided
as to shock the conscience. 
Based on the foregoing, the Court does not
find that Plaintiff has met her burden of demonstrating that the delegation
clause in the subject Agreement to Arbitrate is unenforceable due to unconscionability. 
 In light of the foregoing, the Court finds
that whether Plaintiff’s claims in this action are covered by the Agreement to
Arbitrate is a question
for the arbitrator per the delegation clause. 
B.     Grounds to Deny Arbitration
In the opposition, Plaintiff also asserts that “Defendants’ refusal to
pay mediation costs waives arbitration.” (Opp’n at p. 8:11.) As set forth
above, the Court finds that the language of the
subject delegation clause is clear and unmistakable, and that Plaintiff has not
demonstrated that the delegation clause is unenforceable due to unconscionability. Defendants cite to Omar v. Ralphs Grocery Co. (2004) 118 Cal.App.4th 955, 960, where the Court of Appeal noted that “procedural issues to be decided by an arbitrator include allegations of
waiver and delay and whether prerequisites such as time limits, notice, laches,
estoppel and other conditions precedent to an obligation to arbitrate have been
met.” 
In the opposition, Plaintiff asserts that “[w]aiver’ and ‘breach’ for failure to
pay the arbitrator under Section 1281.97 are
presumptively disputes ‘for judicial determination unless the parties clearly and
unmistakably provide otherwise.’” (Opp’n at p. 11:26-27.) In support of this
assertion, Plaintiff cites to Gallo v. Wood Ranch USA, Inc. (2022) 81 Cal.App.5th
621, 629-630, where the
Court of Appeal found as follows: 
 
“Perceiving that employees and consumers
were being placed in a ‘procedural limbo’ when they were forced to sign
arbitration agreements by entities who subsequently refused to pay the
necessary fees to allow the arbitrations to move forward, the California
Legislature enacted Code of Civil Procedure
sections 1281.97, 1281.98 and 1281.99… These provisions
obligate a company or business who drafts an arbitration agreement to pay its
share of arbitration fees by no later than 30 days after the date they are due,
and specify that the failure to do so constitutes a ‘material breach of the
arbitration agreement’ that gives the employee or consumer, in addition to a
mandatory award of attorney fees and costs related to the breach as well
as other discretionary sanctions, the options of either (1) continuing in
arbitration with the company or business paying attorney fees and costs related
to the arbitration as a whole or (2) withdrawing from arbitration and resuming
the litigation in a judicial forum…This appeal presents a question of first
impression: Are these provisions preempted by the Federal Arbitration
Act (FAA) (9 U.S.C. § 1 et seq.)? We hold that they
are not because the procedures they prescribe further—rather than frustrate—the objectives of the FAA to
honor the parties’ intent to arbitrate and to preserve arbitration as a speedy
and effective alternative forum for resolving disputes. We accordingly affirm
the trial court’s order vacating its earlier order compelling arbitration
between the parties in this case.” (Emphasis
in original.)
Thus, the Court does not
see how the Gallo case goes to the issue of delegation. In addition, with regard to Plaintiff’s argument that “[w]aiver’ and ‘breach’ for failure to
pay the arbitrator under Section 1281.97 are presumptively disputes
‘for judicial determination,” (Opp’n at p. 11:26-27), the Court notes that Code of Civil
Procedure section 1281.97 provides in pertinent part as follows: 
“(a)
(1) In an employment or consumer
arbitration that requires, either expressly or through application of state
or federal law or the rules of the arbitration provider, the drafting party to
pay certain fees and costs before the arbitration can proceed, if the fees or costs to
initiate an arbitration proceeding
are not paid within 30 days after the due date the drafting party is in
material breach of the arbitration agreement, is in default of the arbitration,
and waives its right to compel arbitration under Section
1281.2.
 
(2) After an employee or consumer
meets the filing requirements necessary to initiate an arbitration, the
arbitration provider shall immediately provide an invoice for any fees and
costs required before the arbitration can proceed to all of the parties to the
arbitration. The invoice shall be provided in its entirety, shall state the
full amount owed and the date that payment is due, and shall be sent to all
parties by the same means on the same day. To avoid delay, absent an express
provision in the arbitration agreement stating the number of days in which the
parties to the arbitration must pay any required fees or costs, the arbitration
provider shall issue all invoices to the parties as due upon receipt.
 
(b) If the drafting party
materially breaches the arbitration agreement and is in default under
subdivision (a), the employee or consumer may do either of the following:
 
(1) Withdraw the claim from
arbitration and proceed in a court of appropriate jurisdiction.
 
(2) Compel arbitration in which the
drafting party shall pay reasonable attorney’s fees and costs related to the
arbitration.”  
            Thus, Code of Civil Procedure section 1281.97 concerns
“an employment or consumer arbitration that
requires, either expressly or through application of state or federal law or
the rules of the arbitration provider, the drafting party to pay certain fees
and costs before the arbitration can proceed.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 1281.97, subd. (a)(1).)
The Court does not see how this provision is applicable here, where Plaintiff
argues that “Defendants’ refusal to pay mediation costs waives
arbitration.” (Opp’n at p. 8:11, emphasis added.) Defendants assert that
Plaintiff “meets none of the requirements of section 1281.97, putting aside the fact that it does not apply to mediation fees.
She has not initiated arbitration and refuses to do so.” (Mot. at p. 12:18-19.)
Indeed, Plaintiff opposes the instant motion to compel arbitration. 
            Plaintiff
also cites to Code of Civil Procedure section 1281.98, but that provision provides that “[i]n an employment or consumer arbitration
that requires, either expressly or through application of state or federal law
or the rules of the arbitration provider, that the drafting party pay
certain fees and costs during the pendency of an arbitration proceeding, if
the fees or costs required to continue the arbitration proceeding are not paid
within 30 days after the due date, the drafting party is in material breach of
the arbitration agreement, is in default of the arbitration, and waives its
right to compel the employee or consumer to proceed with that arbitration as a
result of the material breach.” (Code
Civ. Proc., § 1281.98, subd. (a)(1), emphasis added.) As discussed,
Plaintiff contends that “Defendants’ refusal to pay mediation costs waives
arbitration.” (Opp’n at p. 8:11.) Plaintiff does not assert that Defendants
failed to pay fees and costs during the pendency of an arbitration proceeding. Thus, the Court does not
see how Code of Civil Procedure section 1281.98 is applicable here. 
Plaintiff also asserts in the opposition that “[t]he agreement to
arbitrate is sufficiently unconscionable to render it voidable.” (Opp’n at p.
13:13-14.) Defendants assert that claims
of general unconscionability as to the whole agreement must be delegated. Defendants cite to Malone v. Superior
Court (2014) 226 Cal.App.4th
1551, 1559-1560, where the Court of Appeal noted that “when a party is claiming that an
arbitration agreement is unenforceable, it is important to determine whether
the party is making a specific challenge to the enforceability of the
delegation clause or is simply arguing that the agreement as a whole is
unenforceable. If the
party’s challenge is directed to the agreement as a whole—even if it applies
equally to the delegation clause—the delegation clause is severed out and
enforced; thus, the arbitrator, not the court, will determine whether the
agreement is enforceable. In contrast, if the party is making a specific
challenge to the delegation clause, the court must determine whether the
delegation clause itself may be enforced (and can only delegate the general
issue of enforceability to the arbitrator if it first determines the delegation
clause is enforceable).” 
As set forth above, the Court does not
find that Plaintiff has demonstrated that the delegation clause in the
Agreement to Arbitrate is unenforceable due to unconscionability. The delegation
clause clearly provides that “[t]he
arbitrator shall have authority to determine his or her jurisdiction, including
to resolve all issue of ‘arbitrability.’” (Palazzolo Decl., ¶ 6, Ex. 2, Ex. A,
p. 9.) Based on the foregoing, the Court
agrees with Defendants that Plaintiff’s defenses of waiver and
unconscionability of the Agreement to Arbitrate as
a whole are questions
for the arbitrator, per the delegation clause.

Lastly, Plaintiff seeks sanctions under Code
of Civil Procedure section 1281.97,
subdivision (d), which
provides that “[i]f the employee or consumer
proceeds with an action in a court of appropriate jurisdiction, the court shall
impose sanctions on the drafting party in accordance with Section 1281.99.” As set forth above, the Court does not see how Code of Civil Procedure section 1281.97
is applicable here. Thus, the Court denies Plaintiff’s request for sanctions. 
C.     Stay
Code of Civil
Procedure section 1281.4 states that the
court shall stay the action or proceeding if the court has ordered arbitration.
(Code Civ. Proc., § 1281.4.) Accordingly, the case
is stayed pending completion of arbitration. 
Conclusion
For the foregoing
reasons, Defendants’ motion to compel arbitration is granted. The entire action
is stayed pending completion of arbitration of Plaintiff’s arbitrable claims. 
The Court sets an
arbitration completion status conference on October 14, 2024 at 10:00 a.m. in
Dept. 50. The parties are ordered to file a joint report regarding the status
of the arbitration by October 7, 2024, with a courtesy copy delivered directly
to Department 50. 
Defendants are ordered
to provide notice of this Order.
 
DATED:  October 13, 2023                            
________________________________
Hon. Rolf M. Treu
Judge, Los
Angeles Superior Court