 Case Number:  22GDCV00252    Hearing Date:   March 14, 2024    Dept:  X    Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Joel L. Lofton,
Department X
 
 
HEARING DATE:      March 14, 2024                                               TRIAL DATE: No date set. 
                                                           
CASE:                         GC-8, LLC, a
California limited liability company; SAN CLEMENTE BEACH COUNTRY CLUB, a
California corporation; SHORECLIFFS GOLF MANAGEMENT, INC, a California
corporation; SEAN LEONG, an individual; and ALLSION LEE, an individual; v,
ROBERT D. HEINRICH, CPA, an individual; ROBERT D. HEINRICH, C.P.A., INC., a
California corporation, MMAP SERVICES, INC., a California corporation; and DOES
1-30, inclusive.  
 
CASE NO.:                 22GDCV00252
 
 
 
MOTIONS
TO COMPEL FURTHER RESPONSES

 
MOVING PARTY:               Defendant Robert Heinrich
 
RESPONDING PARTY:      Plaintiff
Shorecliffs Gold Management Inc. 
 
RELIEF
REQUESTED 
 
            Defendant moves for an order compelling Plaintiff to provide further
responses to his discovery requests. 
 
BACKGROUND
 
             This case arises out of Plaintiffs claim that
Defendant Robert Heinrich engaged in professional negligence related to
accounting and bookkeeping services. Plaintiffs filed a third amended complaint
on September 29, 2023, alleging four causes of action for (1) professional
negligence, (2) negligent supervision, (3) common counts, and (4) violations of
Business and Professions Code section 17200 et seq.
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 
            Defendant’s motions to compel further responses are
DENIED as moot.
 
            Defendant’s
requests for sanctions are denied. 
 
LEGAL STANDARD
 
On receipt of a response to discovery requests, the party requesting may
move for an order compelling further responses for interrogatories (Code Civ.
Proc. 2030.300), requests for admission (Cod. Civ. Proc. section 2033.290), and
request for production (Code Civ. Proc. section 2031.310). “Unless notice of
this motion is given within 45 days of the service of the verified response, or
any supplemental verified response, or any specific later date to which the
requesting party and the responding party have agreed in writing, the
requesting party waives any right to compel further response to the requests
for admission.” (Code Civ. Proc. section 2033.290, subd. (c).
 
DISCUSSION
 
            Defendant
moves for an order compelling Plaintiff Shorecliffs Gold Management Inc.
(“Shorecliffs”) to provide further responses to his discovery requests.
Defendant provides that on July 27, 2023, he served requests for the production
of documents, form interrogatories, special interrogatories, and requests for
admissions. (Wu Decl. ¶ 2.) Defendant provides that
on August 28, 2023, Plaintiff served deficient responses containing
objection-only responses. (Id. ¶ 6.) The parties engaged in various meet
and confer efforts, which ultimately resulted in an agreement to extend the
deadline to bring the motions to compel to February 20, 2024. (Id. ¶
17.) 
 
            In opposition, Shorecliffs provides that it served
supplemental responses on or around February 19 and 20, 2024. (Butler Decl. ¶¶
2-3.) In reply, Defendants that Shorecliffs supplemental responses are
deficient because they are unverified. However, each of Shorecliffs’
supplemental responses are followed by a verification statement. Thus, because
Shorecliffs eventually filed supplemental responses, the present motions are
denied as moot. 
 
The court recognizes that Defendant filed amended separate
statements as to his motions to compel further responses to his special
interrogatories, requests for admission, and requests for the production of
documents. However, the amended statements were filed on March 5, 2024. Thus,
the amended separate statements are untimely for the purposes of this hearing.
Further, Defendant’s amended separate statements are deficient. 
 
California Rules of Court, Rule 3.1345 requires a separate
statement to include “[a] statement of the factual and legal reasons for
compelling further responses, answers, or production as to each matter
in dispute”. While Defendant facially complies with this requirement by
including a “reason further response to [discovery request] is warranted” next
to the discovery requests, Defendant merely includes stock language claiming
that Shorecliffs' objections are meritless and boilerplate. Much like Shorecliffs’
boilerplate objections are unhelpful to Defendant, Defendant’s boilerplate
statements of insufficiency are not helpful to this court to determine whether
further responses should be ordered as to the specific discovery requests. The
court also notes that the “reason further responses is warranted” section is
missing from some of the discovery requests at issue. 
 
Defendant’s separate statements fail to
adequately establish a proper reason for this court to compel further responses
as to the specific discovery request. Defendant merely repeats language for the
type of discovery request at issue but fails to demonstrate why further
responses should be ordered as to each matter. Thus, because Defendant’s amended separate
statements are untimely and deficient, the present motions are still denied as
moot. 
 
            The only issue remaining is the issue of sanctions.
Shorecliffs provides that Defendant has engaged in bad faith delay to avoid
producing discovery. Both parties provide that Shorecliffs required various
extension, including one case where Shorecliffs’s counsel provided he had
computer issues, to produce its responses. Based on the circumstances
surrounding this motion, the court finds it would be prudent to avoid sanctions
at this time to promote and encourage the parties to meet and confer in good
faith.
 
However, the court notes that “[c]ivil discovery is
intended to operate with a minimum of judicial intervention. ‘[I]t is a
“central precept” of the Civil Discovery Act ... that discovery ‘be essentially
self-executing[.]’ ” (Sinaiko Healthcare Consulting, Inc. v. Pacific
Healthcare Consultants (2007) 148 Cal.App.4th 390, 402.) The court warns
the parties that any future failures to cooperate in the discovery process will
result in sanctions in favor of the prevailing party. 
 
CONCLUSION
 
            Defendant’s motions to compel further responses are
DENIED as moot.
 
            Defendant’s
requests for sanctions are denied. 
 
 
 
 
 
            
Dated:   March 14,
2024                                             ___________________________________
                                                                                    Joel
L. Lofton
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court
 