 Case Number:  23AHCV01885    Hearing Date:   March 14, 2024    Dept:  X    Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Joel L. Lofton,
Department X
 
 
HEARING DATE:      March 14, 2024                                               TRIAL DATE: No date set. 
                                                           
CASE:                         PAUL VANGELISTI,
MALGORZATA VANGELISTI v. CITY OF PASADENA, a municipal entity; DANIEL KOES, an
individual, and DOES 1 to 50, inclusive.  
 
CASE NO.:                 23AHCV01885
 
 
 
MOTION
FOR DETERMINATION OF GOOD FAITH SETTLEMENT

 
MOVING PARTY:               Defendant Daniel Koes (“Koes”)
 
RESPONDING PARTY:      Defendant
City of Pasadena (the “City”)
 
SERVICE:                              Filed February 21, 2024
 
OPPOSITION:                       Filed March 1, 2024
 
REPLY:                                   Filed March 6, 2024
 
RELIEF
REQUESTED 
 
             Koes moves for determination of
good faith settlement based on his settlement for $80,000 with Plaintiffs. 
 
BACKGROUND
 
             This case arises out of Plaintiffs Paul
Vangelisti and Malgorzata Vangelisti (“Plaintiffs”) claims that Paul tripped
and fell on an improperly maintained sidewalk. Plaintiffs filed this complaint
on August 18, 2023. 
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 
            Koes’ motion for determination of good faith settlement
is GRANTED.
 
OBJECTIONS TO EVIDENCE 
 
            The City’s
objections to the declaration of Daniel Koes are overruled.
 
LEGAL STANDARD
 
“Any party to an
action in which it is alleged that two or more parties are joint tortfeasors or
co-obligors on a contract debt shall be entitled to a hearing on the issue of
the good faith of a settlement entered into by the plaintiff or other claimant
and one or more alleged tortfeasors or co-obligors”. (Code Civ. Proc. section
877.6, subd. (a)(1).) “A determination by the court that the settlement was
made in good faith shall bar any other joint tortfeasor or co-obligor from any
further claims against the settling tortfeasor or co-obligor for equitable
comparative contribution, or partial or comparative indemnity, based on
comparative negligence or comparative fault.” (Code Civ. Proc. section 877.6,
subd. (c).)
 
            “A determination
by the court that the settlement was made in good faith shall bar any other
joint tortfeasor or co-obligor from any further claims against the settling
tortfeasor or co-obligor for equitable comparative contribution, or partial or
comparative indemnity, based on comparative negligence or comparative fault.”
(Code Civ. Proc. section 877.6, subd. (c).) “Accordingly, a court not only
looks at the alleged tortfeasor's potential liability to the plaintiff, but it
must also consider the culpability of the tortfeasor vis-à-vis other parties
alleged to be responsible for the same injury. Potential liability for
indemnity to a nonsettling defendant is an important consideration for the
trial court in determining whether to approve a settlement by an alleged
tortfeasor.” (TSI Seismic Tenant Space, Inc. v. Superior Court (2007)
149 Cal.App.4th 159, 166.)
 
DISCUSSION
 
            Koes moves for determination of the good faith of the settlement he
entered into with Plaintiffs. Koes provides that he has agreed to settle with
Plaintiffs in the amount of $80,000. (Walshok Decl. ¶ 4.) Koes provides that Plaintiff’s medical
costs were calculated at $22,843.51. The court notes that while Koes provides
that the information was disclosed during discovery, Koes has not submitted any
evidence establishing the figure for purposes of this motion. Koes also
provides his policy limit is $1,000,000.00. (Motion at p. 2:15.) The City
argues that the settlement was not made in good faith. 
 
“If the good faith settlement is
contested, section 877.6, subdivision (d), sets forth a workable
ground rule for the hearing by placing the burden of proving the lack of good
faith on the contesting party. Once there is a showing made by the settlor of
the settlement, the burden of proof on the issue of good faith shifts to the
non-settlor who asserts that the settlement was not made in good faith. (Fisher v. Superior Court (1980) 103 Cal.App.3d
47; § 877.6, subd. (d).) If contested, declarations by the non-settlor
should be filed which in many cases could require the moving party to file
responsive counter declarations to negate the lack of good faith asserted by
the non-settling contesting party.” (City of Grand Terrace v. Superior Court
(1987) 192 Cal.App.3d 1251, 1261.)        
 
One consideration for whether a settlement was made in good faith is “whether the
amount of the settlement is within the reasonable range of the settling
tortfeasor's proportional share of comparative liability for the plaintiff's
injuries.” (Tech-Bilt, Inc. v. Woodward-Clyde & Associates (1985) 38
Cal.3d 488, 499.) The California Supreme Court, in Tech-Bilt, also
stated that relevant factors include “a rough approximation of plaintiffs'
total recovery and the settlor's proportionate liability, the amount paid in
settlement, the allocation of settlement proceeds among plaintiffs, and a
recognition that a settlor should pay less in settlement than he would if he
were found liable after a trial.” (Ibid.)
 
            “Accordingly,
a court not only looks at the alleged tortfeasor's potential liability to the
plaintiff, but it must also consider the culpability of the tortfeasor
vis-à-vis other parties alleged to be responsible for the same injury.
Potential liability for indemnity to a nonsettling defendant is an important
consideration for the trial court in determining whether to approve a
settlement by an alleged tortfeasor.” (TSI Seismic Tenant Space, Inc. v.
Superior Court (2007) 149 Cal.App.4th 159, 166.) “The Tech–Bilt factors are nonexhaustive and ‘may not
apply in all cases.’ [Citation.] Further, practical considerations obviously
require that the evaluation be made on the basis of information available at
the time of settlement.” (Dole Food Co., Inc. v. Superior Court (2015)
242 Cal.App.4th 894, 909.) 
 
            The City
argues that Koes’ settlement with Plaintiff was not in good faith because Koes’
proportionate liability is greater than the City’s liability. The City argues
that Koes is the party responsible for the sidewalk and bears greater liability
in this case. The City provides its understanding is that fee title of the
sidewalk and parkway at issue are vested in the abutting property owner, Koes.
(Wu-Bowman Decl. ¶ 5.) The City also provides
that it does not water the trees planted at the property at issue in this case
and that it is Koes’ duty to water the trees in front. (Graham Decl. ¶ 4.) The
City also briefly argues that Koes’ estimation of total recovery is unsupported
and Koes’ policy limit is relevant. 
 
            In opposition, Koes argues that he does not bear a great
amount of liability because it was the City’s duty to maintain the tree.
Pasadena Municipal Code section 8.52.030 provides that the city manage shall
“[b]y use of city employees, private contractors or authorized volunteers,
plant, maintain and otherwise care for, or if necessary, remove public trees”. Koes
provides that he informed the City of the dangerous condition of the sidewalk
in 2018. (Koes Decl. ¶ 4.) He also provides that the City constructed the
sidewalk in 2019. (Id. ¶ 7.) Koes also opines that the tree was the
cause of the sidewalk’s condition. (Id. ¶¶ 3-7.) Koes also argues that
his policy limit is not applicable here. 
 
            The parties primarily argue the
factual basis for liability but provide little evidentiary support. The court
first analyzes other relevant Tech-bilt factors. The parties have failed
to provide an estimate of plaintiff’s total recovery. Although Koes provides
Plaintiff’s medical costs total $22,843.51, the evidence underpinning that
assertion is not before this court. Additionally, neither party provides any
other approximation. The court next notes that Koes’ attempt to settle this
case weighs in his favor. Lastly, Koes’ policy limit is relevant. However,
since the parties are unable to assert any other approximation of Plaintiff’s
total recovery, the policy limit is only marginally relevant. 
 
            The dispositive issue is whether the City has
demonstrated the settlement was made in bad faith based on Koes’ proportionate
liability. The City has failed to meet its burden of proof. The City’s evidence
fails to establish that Koes bears greater or sole liability. The City’s
evidence provides that its employees believe the title to the sidewalk is
vested in Koes but does not support it with any additional evidence. Further,
the City’s citations to the Graham declaration only goes to the vested duty of
watering trees planted on Koes’ property. The City does not demonstrate that Koes
had a legal duty to maintain the tree or that the tree was even on Koes’
property. 
 
            Koes’ motion for determination of good faith settlement
is granted.
 
CONCLUSION
 
            Koes’ motion for determination of good faith settlement
is GRANTED.
 
 
            Moving
party to give notice .
 
 
 
            
Dated:   March 14, 2024                                             ___________________________________
                                                                                    Joel
L. Lofton
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court