  Case Number:  22AHCV00984    Hearing Date:   December 13, 2024    Dept:  3 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - NORTHEAST
DISTRICT
 



ALBERTO MORALES, et al.,
                    Plaintiff(s),
          vs.
 
AMERICAN
   HONDA MOTOR CO., INC., 
 
                    Defendant(s).


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


      CASE NO.: 22AHCV00984
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: PLAINTIFFS’ MOTION FOR SUMMARY ADJUDICATION OF
  DEFENDANT’S SEVENTH AND EIGHTH AFFIRMATIVE DEFENSES 
 
 
Dept.
  3
8:30
  a.m.
December
   13, 2024



 
I.           
INTRODUCTION 
On November
2, 2022, plaintiffs Alberto Morales and Carolina Altamirano (“Plaintiffs”)
filed this action against defendant American Honda Motor Co., Inc.
(“Defendant”) asserting causes of action for violation of the Song-Beverly
Consumer Warranty Act (“SBA”) and fraudulent concealment. On September 10,
2024, Plaintiffs filed a request to dismiss the fraud claim.
On August 20,
2024, Plaintiffs filed this motion for summary adjudication of Defendant’s
Seventh and Eighth Affirmative Defenses. These affirmative defenses allege that:
(1) Plaintiffs “received timely notice of the availability of a third-party
dispute resolution process, and that no effort was made to use such process”,
and (2) Defendant “possesses a qualified third-party dispute resolution process,
thereby barring Plaintiffs from [recovering] any civil penalty in this lawsuit.”
(Answer, 3:11-20.) 
Defendant
filed an opposition brief on November 6, 2024. 
Plaintiffs
filed a reply brief on November 14, 2024. 
On November
19, 2024, the Court continued the hearing to December 13, 2024, so that the
parties could submit supplemental briefs. As recited in the Court’s minute
order, “Counsel for defendant is ordered to submit a supplemental brief not to
exceed five pages regarding the issues raised in argument today. Said brief
must be served and filed no later than 11/27/2024. Any reply brief, not to
exceed five pages, must be served and filed no later than 12/04/2024.”
Plaintiffs
filed a reply brief on December 4, 2024, noting the absence of any filing by
Defendant by the deadline set by the Court. 
Defendant filed
a supplemental brief on December 9, 2024, without any explanation for the
untimeliness of its filing. 
II.         
LEGAL STANDARD
“A party may move for summary
adjudication as to one or more causes of action within an action, one or more
affirmative defenses, one or more claims for damages, or one or more issues of
duty, if the party contends that the cause of action has no merit, that there
is no affirmative defense to the cause of action, that there is no merit to an
affirmative defense as to any cause of action, that there is no merit to a
claim for damages, as specified in¿Section 3294 of the Civil Code, or that
one or more defendants either owed or did not owe a duty to the plaintiff or
plaintiffs.” (Code Civ. Proc.,¿§ 437c, subd. (f)(1).) In reviewing a motion for summary adjudication,
courts must apply a three-step analysis: “(1) identify the issues framed by the
pleadings; (2) determine whether the moving party has negated the opponent’s
claims; and (3) determine whether the opposition has demonstrated the existence
of a triable, material factual issue.” (Hinesley
v. Oakshade Town Center (2005) 135 Cal.App.4th 289, 294.) 
III.       
DISCUSSION 
The SBA provides, in relevant
part, that “[i]f the manufacturer maintains a qualified third-party dispute
resolution process which substantially complies with Section 1793.22 [referred
to as the Tanner Consumer Protection Act or “TCPA”], the manufacturer shall not
be liable for any civil penalty pursuant to this subdivision.” (Civ. Code, §
1794, subd. (e).) The TCPA lists nine mandatory requirements. (Civ. Code, §
1793.22 [“A qualified third-party dispute resolution process shall be one that
does all of the following:…”]) The last of these requirements requires “obtain[ing]
and maintain[ing] certification by the Department of Consumer Affairs pursuant
to Chapter 9 (commencing with Section 472) of Division 1 of the Business and
Professions Code.” (Civ. Code, § 1793.22, subd. (d)(9).) In turn, Business and
Professions Code section 472 defines “qualified third party dispute resolution
process” to mean “a third party dispute resolution process which operates in
compliance with subdivision (d) of Section 1793.22 of the Civil Code and this
chapter and which has been certified by the [DCA] pursuant to this chapter.”
(Bus. & Prof. Code § 472, subd. (c) [emphasis added].) 
Here, Defendant admitted in
discovery that its dispute resolution process has not been certified pursuant
to section 472 by the California Department of Consumer Affairs (“DCA”).
(Plaintiffs’ Undisputed Material Fact (“UMF”) No. 3.) Plaintiffs argue that
only the Arbitration Certification Program of the DCA has authority to issue
certifications for arbitration programs and determine whether it is in “substantial
compliance” with the TCPA because CCR 3396.1 defines “certification” as “a
determination by the Arbitration Certification Program. . . that an arbitration
program is in substantial compliance with [the TCPA], and this subchapter.”
(CCR § 3396.1, subd. (f).) Plaintiffs further include an affidavit and letter from
the DCA’s Program Chief for the Arbitration Certification Program (“ACP”),
Cynthia Antar (“Antar”), who declares that the DCA has sole authority to grant
certification of a third-party resolution process and determine whether it is in
substantial compliance with the SBA. (Ungs Decl., Ex. D, ¶¶ 2, 6.) Antar
proceeds to recite the review process of the ACP for certification under CCR
section 3399.5(a), which states that a certified third-party dispute resolution
program must be reviewed by the ACP at the DC for: 
(1)  An examination of updates of all information and
materials required in the application and periodic reports;
(2)  One or more on-site inspections of the program's
facilities, records and operations, including the records of individual
disputes, interviews of the program's staff and arbitrators, and attendance at
meetings held to decide disputes; 
(3)  Evaluation of the qualifications, training, and
performance of arbitrators; 
(4)  Investigation and analysis of complaints from any
source regarding the operation of the program;
(5)   An evaluation
of consumer satisfaction based on the results of an annual random mail or
telephone survey by the Arbitration Certification Program;
(6)  An evaluation of other information obtained through
the Arbitration Certification Program's monitoring and inspection, or which is
relevant to continuing certification.
 
(Cal. Code Regs., § 3399.5, subd. (a)(1)-(6).) 
In opposition, Defendant argues
that it needs to only provide a dispute resolution process which “substantially
complies” with the nine requirements set forth in the TCPA, therefore the fact
that it is not certified is not determinative as a matter of law and the issue
of substantial compliance is a triable issue of fact. Defendant cites to Suman
v. Superior Court (1994) 23 Cal.App.4th 1 (“Suman I”) and Suman
v. Superior Court (1995) 39 Cal.App.4th 1309 (“Suman II”) for the
proposition that the Legislature’s preference for alternative dispute
resolution mechanisms means that as long as its program fulfills unspecified
“critical statutory elements – binding arbitration decisions, specific
timelines for compliance, and cost-free consumer access” – certification is not
necessary so long as the program provides consumers with accessible
alternatives to litigation. (Opp., p. 5; Supp. Brief, p. 2 [good faith efforts
central to determining substantial compliance].) Defendant also cites to Oregal
v. American Isuzu Motors, Inc. (2001) 90 Cal.App.4th 1094, for the
proposition that a manufacturer’s proactive efforts to offer consumer remedies,
even if not certified, can still constitute substantial compliance and good
faith under the Act. (Opp., pp. 5-6.) Notably, Defendant does not include a
pincite but the most pertinent part of Oregel appears to be its
recognition of the “general policy against imposing forfeitures or penalties
against parties for their good faith, reasonable actions.” (Oregel at p.
1106.) Defendant also relies on Valdovinos v. Kia Motors America, Inc.
(2024) 104 Cal.App.5th 732, which is of no persuasive value because it was recently
ordered depublished on December 11, 2024.
Despite being given an
additional opportunity to provide supplemental briefing, Defendant fails to persuades
the Court that a dispute resolution process may shield a manufacturer from
nonwillful civil penalties without formal certification by the DCA. The
importance of certification is underscored by the SBA’s use of the term “qualified
third-party dispute resolution process” and its reference to the TCPA, which
explicitly requires certification by the DCA in Business and Professions Code
section 472 as one of nine requirements for a “qualified third-party dispute
resolution process.” Also, Business and Professions Code section 472 defines
“qualified third party dispute resolution process” as requiring certification
by the DCA. Business and Professions Code section 472.1 through 472.3 delegates
to the DCA the responsibility for establishing a certification program and
determining substantial compliance with that program. CCR 3396.1 then circles
back to the SBA and TCPA by specifically defining certification as a
determination by the ACP of the DCA that a dispute resolution process is “in
substantial compliance” with the TCPA. Given this loop of statutory references
and defintions, as well as the stringent process of review and certification established
by the DCA, the Court rejects Defendant’s contention that determining
“substantial compliance” with a consumer protection statute is an issue that
should be left to a factfinder in disregard of an entire regulatory scheme.
Therefore, the Court finds that Defendant did not maintain a qualified
third-party dispute resolution process and that its Seventh and Eighth
Affirmative Defenses fail as a matter of law. 
VI.    CONCLUSION
          In light of
the foregoing, the motion for summary adjudication of Defendant’s Seventh and
Eighth Affirmative Defenses is GRANTED. 
Moving party to give notice.  
Dated
this 13th
day of December 2024 
 




 


 




 


William A. Crowfoot
Judge of the Superior Court




 
 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at ALHDEPT3@lacourt.org indicating
intention to submit on the tentative as directed by the instructions provided
on the court website at www.lacourt.org. 
Please be advised that if you submit on the tentative and elect not to appear
at the hearing, the opposing party may nevertheless appear at the hearing and
argue the matter.  Unless you receive a
submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume that others
might appear at the hearing to argue.  If
the Court does not receive emails from the parties indicating submission on
this tentative ruling and there are no appearances at the hearing, the Court
may, at its discretion, adopt the tentative as the final order or place the
motion off calendar.
 