 Case Number:  24NNCV02848    Hearing Date:   December 13, 2024    Dept:  3 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - NORTHEAST
DISTRICT
 



ANDREW STEWART, et al., 
                    Plaintiff(s),
          vs.
 
WILLIAM
   CLEARY, et al.,
 
                    Defendant(s).


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


     CASE NO.:  24NNCV02848
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: PLAINTIFFS’ MOTION TO COMPEL FURTHER DISCOVERY RESPONSES

 
Dept.
  3
8:30
  a.m.
December
   13, 2024




 


)


 



 
I.           
INTRODUCTION
On July 11, 2024, plaintiffs Andrew
Stewart and Shyla Stewart (“Plaintiffs”) filed this action against defendants
William Cleary and Cindy Cleary (“Defendants”) alleging damage to their
property from a landslide. Plaintiffs allege Defendants negligently failed to
“secure their higher property against landslides onto Plaintiffs’ lower
property.” (See, e.g., Compl., pp. 4, 6.) 
On September 11, 2024, Plaintiffs filed
this “Motion to Compel Defendants to Answer Plaintiff’s Complaint and
Interrogatories.” The motion, which does not comply with the California Rules
of Court, rule 2.100, et seq., requests that the Court “order the Defendants to
respond promptly and fully to Plaintiffs’ Complaint and [Special and Form] Interrogatories.”
Plaintiffs also request “appropriate compensation for the time and expense of
responding to the Defendant’s efforts to delay and inhibit a fair resolution of
this case.” 
On November 15, 2024, Plaintiffs filed
a “motion to amend motion to compel” which sought to withdraw the reference to
their Special Interrogatories, Set One, from their motion. This motion to amend
was accompanied by a memorandum of points and authorities.  
Defendants filed an opposition brief and
supporting declaration from defense counsel on December 2, 2024. Plaintiffs
filed a “memorandum in response” on December 6, 2024. 
II.         
DISCUSSION
A.  
Plaintiffs’
Request for “Answers to the Complaint” 
As an initial matter, the Court notes
that Plaintiffs’ papers do not comply with California Rules of Court, rules
2.100-2.119. Ony Plaintiffs’ “response” is filed on pleading paper, making it
very difficult to cite to their moving papers. Nevertheless, the Court
endeavors to cite to Plaintiffs’ papers by referring to the page number of the
electronically-filed PDF. 
Plaintiffs first argue that Defendants
have improperly filed a “general denial” in response to their Complaint,
including allegations “of facts well known to Defendant.” (Amended Motion, p.
3.) Plaintiffs are not entitled to a “further response” to their pleading.
Plaintiffs’ complaint was unverified; therefore, a general denial suffices as
an answer. (Code Civ. Proc., § 431.30, subd. (d) [general denial is sufficient
if complaint is unverified].) If Plaintiffs wanted Defendants to specifically
deny or admit particular allegations, Plaintiffs needed to have served and
filed a verified complaint. 
Accordingly, the motion is DENIED with
respect to Plaintiffs’ request for a more detailed answer from Defendants.
B.  
Plaintiffs’
Requests for Further Responses to Form Interrogatories (Set One)
A notice of motion “must state when,
and the grounds upon which it will be made, and the papers, if any, upon which
it is to be based.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 1010.) A notice of motion that does not
identify the specific interrogatories at issue or the appropriate statute for
compelling a further response does not give adequate notice.” (Golf &
Tennis Pro Shop, Inc. v. Superior Court (2022) 84 Cal.App.5th 127,
138-139.) Notice of a motion to compel further responses to interrogatories
must be given within 45 days of service of the verified response. (Code Civ.
Proc., § 2023.300, subd. (c).) “[P]ro per litigants are held to the same
standards as attorneys.” (Kobayashi v. Superior Court (2009) 175
Cal.App.4th 536, 543.) “[M]ere self-representation is not a ground for
exceptionally lenient treatment. Except when a particular rule provides
otherwise, the rules of civil procedure must apply equally to parties
represented by counsel and those who forgo attorney representation. … A
doctrine generally requiring or permitting exceptional treatment of parties who
represent themselves would lead to a quagmire in the trial courts, and would be
unfair to the other parties to litigation.” (Rappleyea v. Campbell
(1994) 8 Cal.4th 975, 984–985, citation omitted.)
Plaintiffs’ initial and amended moving
papers do not: (1) identify the form interrogatories at issue in their motion,
(2) include a separate statement as required by California Rules of Court rule
3.1345, or (3) include a copy of their interrogatories and Defendants’
responses for the Court’s review. Therefore, Plaintiffs have failed to give
adequate notice of their motion and the Court is unable to rule on their
request for a further response. (Gamet v. Blanchard (2001) 91 Cal.App.4th 1276, 1284-1285
[self-represented litigants are not exempt from statutes or court rules governing
procedure].) The Court additionally notes that Plaintiffs improperly cite to
“CCR 8 § 372.6,” in their motion to “amend” their motion to compel, which
applies to administrative proceedings before the Occupational Safety and Health
Appeals Board, and not the correct provision of the Code of Civil Procedure, which
is section 2030.300. 
Defendants also point out that
Plaintiffs failed to meet and confer before filing this motion on September 11,
2024. Plaintiffs have not filed a declaration that complies with Code of Civil
Procedure section 2015.5. Instead, in their “response”, Plaintiffs claim they
met and conferred with defense counsel in June 2024 and on various occasions
from late September to November 2024. (Response, p. 2.) These instances are
unavailable because Defendants served responses on September 5, 2024, and this
motion was filed on September 11, 2024. Although Plaintiffs later “amended”
their motion on November 15, 2024, after requesting Defendants answer the Form
Interrogatories “fully and honestly”, the belated amended motion does not
satisfy their requirement to meet and confer before filing their discovery motion.
(Response, pp. 2-3; Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.300, subd. (b)(1).) The failure to
meet and confer as required is grounds for mandatory monetary sanctions and,
notwithstanding the outcome of the particular discovery motion, the Court shall
order the party or attorney who fails to confer as required before filing such
motion to pay the reasonable expenses, including attorney’s fees, incurred by
anyone as a result of that conduct. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2023.020.) Here, Plaintiffs
are fortunate that Defendants have graciously declined to request sanctions in
their opposition.
Last, the Court addresses Plaintiffs’ improper
request for “appropriate compensation.” Because Plaintiffs do not prevail on
this motion, the request for compensation is DENIED. But even if Plaintiffs’
motion were successful, parties appearing in pro per may not recover attorneys' fees through
discovery sanctions. (Kravitz v. Superior Court (2001) 91 Cal.App.4th 1015, 1020.) Moreover,
although self-represented litigants may recover expenses incurred for
computer-assisted legal research, photocopying, transportation, or any other
identifiable items, Plaintiffs fail to identify any items in any of their
papers. 
III.       
CONCLUSION
Plaintiffs’ motion is DENIED. 
          Moving party
to give notice. 
Dated
this 13th
day of December, 2024




 


 




 


       William A.
  Crowfoot
Judge of the Superior Court
 




 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at ALHDEPT3@lacourt.org indicating
intention to submit on the tentative as directed by the instructions provided
on the court website at www.lacourt.org. Please be advised that if you submit
on the tentative and elect not to appear at the hearing, the opposing party may
nevertheless appear at the hearing and argue the matter. Unless you receive a
submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume that others
might appear at the hearing to argue. If the Court does not receive emails from
the parties indicating submission on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may, at its discretion, adopt the
tentative as the final order or place the motion off calendar.
 