 Case Number:  23STCV11647    Hearing Date:   November 16, 2023    Dept:  15 [TENTATIVE] ORDER RE DEMURRER AND MOTION TO STRIKE
Plaintiff Gerardo
Martinez’s Second Amended Complaint alleges causes of action of negligence and
fraud against Defendant Charter Communications, Inc.  Defendant demurrers on the grounds that Plaintiff
Gerardo Martinez’s causes of action against it are barred by Privette v. Superior
Court and the fraud cause of action is deficient. 
A.        Privette
Generally, the hirer of an
independent contractor is not liable for torts to its independent contractor’s employees
during the performance of inherently dangerous work.  (Privette v. Superior Court (1993) 5 Cal.4th
689, 702 (Privette).)  “Privette
renders the hirer of an independent contractor immune from liability to the independent
contractor’s employee even when the basis for liability was that the hirer failed
to provide in the contract that the contractor must take special precautions to
avert the risks of work.  [Citation.]  Privette also bars liability . . . when
the injured employee’s cause of action against the hirer of the independent contractor
is based on the hirer’s failure to comply with statutory or regulatory workplace
safety requirements.  [Citation.]”  (Johnson v. Raytheon Company, Inc. (2019)
33 Cal.App.5th 617, 628.)
“By hiring an independent
contractor, the hirer implicitly delegates to the contractor any tort duty it owes
to the contractor’s employees to ensure the safety of the specific workplace
that is the subject of the contract.  That
implicit delegation includes any tort law duty the hirer owes to the contractor’s
employees to comply with applicable statutory or regulatory requirements.”  (SeaBright Ins. Co. v. US Airways, Inc.
(2011) 52 Cal.4th 590, 594.)  The duty to
ensure a safe workplace may be delegated, based largely on the policy rationale
that because workers’ compensation limits the liability of an independent contractor
to its own employees, “it would be unfair to permit the injured employee to obtain
full tort damages from the hirer of the independent contractor—damages that
would be unavailable to employees who did not happen to work for a hired contractor.  This inequity would be even greater when . . .
the independent contractor had sole control over the means of performing the work.”  (Id. at p. 603.)
The Second Amended
Complaint alleges Plaintiff “worked as an independent contractor for
[Defendant] installing cable televisions in homes,” Defendant should have known
that the homes would contain asbestos, and Defendant should have informed Plaintiff
about the hazards of asbestos and how to avoid those hazards.  (SAC at p. 9.)  Thus, on its face, the SAC alleges that
Defendant was the hirer of Plaintiff as an independent contractor, meaning the Privette
doctrine applies.
In opposition, Plaintiff
argues that only property owners, not contractors like Defendant, are shielded
by the Privette doctrine. 
(Opposition at p. 3.)  Plaintiff
agues the homeowners were the hirers, they hired Defendant to install cable
television in their homes, and then Defendant hired Plaintiff to install the
cables.  (Id. at p. 9.)  Plaintiff contends that as a subcontractor of
Defendant, he can sue Defendant as the contractor hiring him.  (Ibid.)  
            Plaintiff
is not correct.  The Privette
doctrine applies to a contractor hiring a subcontractor.  In Toland v. Sunland Housing Group, Inc.
(1998) 18 Cal.4th 253, the California Supreme Court concluded that general
contractors have the “right available to any other hiring person:  the right to delegate to independent
contractors the responsibility of ensuring the safety of their own
workers.”  (Id. at p. 269.)  “ ‘[A] general contractor owes no duty of
care to an employee of a subcontractor to prevent or correct unsafe procedures
or practices to which the contractor did not contribute by direction, induced
reliance, or other affirmative conduct. 
The mere failure to exercise a power to compel the subcontractor to
adopt safer procedures does not, without more, violate any duty owed to the
plaintiff.’ ”  (Hooker v. Department
of Transportation (2002) 27 Cal.4th 198, 209.)  Thus, when a contractor hires a
subcontractor, the contractor is the “hirer” for the purpose of the Privette
doctrine.
            Plaintiff
does not identify any exception that takes his negligence cause of action
against Defendant outside of the protection of the Privette
doctrine.  Therefore, the demurrer is
sustained as to the negligence cause of action.
            B.        Fraudulent Concealment
            The
Second Amended Complaint also alleges Defendant committed fraudulent
concealment.  (SAC at p. 14.)  “ ‘[T]he elements of a cause of action for
fraud based on concealment are “ ‘(1) the defendant must have concealed or
suppressed a material fact, (2) the defendant must have been under a duty to
disclose the fact to the plaintiff, (3) the defendant must have intentionally
concealed or suppressed the fact with the intent to defraud the plaintiff, (4)
the plaintiff must have been unaware of the fact and would not have acted as he
did if he had known of the concealed or suppressed fact, and (5) as a result of
the concealment or suppression of the fact, the plaintiff must have sustained
damage.’ ”  [Citation.]’ ”  (Bigler-Engler v. Breg, Inc. (2017) 7
Cal.App.5th 276, 310-311.)  When a
fiduciary duty does not exist, a duty to disclose arises only “when the
defendant had exclusive knowledge of material facts not known to the
plaintiff,” or “when the defendant actively conceals a material fact from the
plaintiff,” or “when the defendant makes partial representations but also
suppresses some material facts.”  (Id.
at p. 311.)  
            The
SAC does not allege a fiduciary relationship between Defendant and Plaintiff.  While it alleges that Defendant knew the homes
and buildings where Plaintiff installed cable had asbestos in them, it does not
allege that knowledge was exclusive to Defendant.  (SAC at p. 14.)  Indeed, the SAC does not allege that
Plaintiff did not know that the homes and buildings where he worked could
contain asbestos.  It does not allege that
Defendant actively concealed a fact from Plaintiff or that Defendant made
partial representations to Defendant.  (Ibid.)  It does not allege that Defendant
intentionally concealed the fact that the homes contained asbestos with the
intent to defraud Plaintiff.  Because
this cause of action does not allege with specificity all of the elements of a
fraudulent concealment cause of action, the demurrer is sustained.
            C.        Fraudulent and Intentional Misrepresentations
            The
SAC alleges Defendant made fraudulent and intentional misrepresentations to
Plaintiff.  (SAC at pp. 15-16, 17-18.)  “A complaint for fraud must allege the following elements:
(1) a knowingly false representation by the defendant; (2) an intent to deceive
or induce reliance; (3) justifiable reliance by the plaintiff; and (4)
resulting damages.”  (Service by
Medallion, Inc. v. Clorox Co. (1996) 44 Cal.App.4th 1807, 1816.)  
            The SAC does not allege with
specificity any knowingly false representation by Defendant to Plaintiff.  It alleges only that Defendant told Plaintiff
how to install wiring but did not tell him that the work would disturb asbestos
or how to avoid asbestos hazards.  (SAC
at pp. 16, 18.)  Nor does the SAC allege
that Defendant intended to deceive Plaintiff when it made a specific false
statement or that Plaintiff justifiably relied on any specific false representation
made by Defendant.  Because
this cause of action does not allege with specificity all of the elements of fraud,
the demurrer is sustained.
            Plaintiff
has now had three opportunities to plead adequately its causes of action
against Defendant.  Because it has failed
to state causes of action against Defendant, the demurrer is SUSTAINED without
leave to amend.  The motion to strike is
MOOT.
            The
moving party is to give notice.