  Case Number:  23STCV08396    Hearing Date:   November 16, 2023    Dept:  15 [TENTATIVE] ORDER RE MOTION TO COMPEL DEPOSITION AND
DOCUMENTS (BOEING)
Plaintiffs Kathleen
Hiland and John Hiland served a PMK deposition notice including requests for
documents on Defendant The Boeing Company. 
Defendant served objections.
The court rules as
follows:
Request Nos. 1, 3, 4, 5,
9:  Denied. 
These request seeks all information related to asbestos on Defendant’s
aircraft at any time, as well as all reports, studies, and memos about asbestos
on Defendant’s aircraft, information about handling asbestos-containing
materials, correspondence about asbestos, and the sources of all asbestos
products on Defendant’s aircraft at any time. 
These requests are overbroad and seek irrelevant information.  For example, they are not limited to the airlines
for whom Plaintiff’s father worked, the type of planes Plaintiff’s father
worked on, the type of work he did, or the time period he worked on planes.  They would require Defendant to search
records from the beginning of its existence and located throughout the world
for all aircraft it sold anywhere in the world. 
Request No. 2:  Denied. 
This request seeks all information about aircraft sold to Continental
before 2010.  This request is extremely overbroad
and seeks information not reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of
admissible evidence.  For example, it
would require the production of information about thousands (if not tens of
thousands) of parts of planes not at issue here.   
Request No. 6:  Denied. 
This request seeks all information about contracts and related documents
for all aircraft Defendant sold to Continental before 2010.  This request would require the production of
information about the negotiations for all sales of aircraft to Continental including
information about financing, payments, delivery etc.  None of that information is relevant or
reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence.
Request Nos. 7, 8:  These requests seek all information about maintenance
and repair documents relating to aircraft Defendant sold to Continental before
2010.  These requests are overbroad and
seek information not reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of
admissible evidence.  For example, they
are not limited to the airlines for whom Plaintiff’s father worked, the type of
planes Plaintiff’s father worked on, the type of work he did, or the time
period he worked on planes.  
Request Nos. 10, 12, 13, 14,
18:  Denied. 
These request seek all information related to asbestos on McDonnel
Douglas’ aircraft at any time, as well as all reports, studies, and memos about
asbestos on McDonnel Douglas’ aircraft, information about handling
asbestos-containing materials, correspondence about asbestos, and the sources
of all asbestos products on McDonnel Douglas’ aircraft at any time.  These requests are overbroad and seek information
not reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence.  For example, they are not limited to the
airlines for whom Plaintiff’s father worked, the type of planes Plaintiff’s
father worked on, the type of work he did, or the time period he worked on
planes.  They would require Defendant to
search records from the beginning of its existence and located throughout the
world for all aircraft McDonnel Douglas sold anywhere in the world.
Request No. 11:  Denied. 
This request duplicates No. 2.
Request No. 15:  Denied. 
This request seeks all information about contracts and related documents
for all aircraft McDonnel Douglas sold to Continental before 2010.  This request would require all the production
of information about the negotiations for all sales of aircraft to Continental
including information about financing, payments, delivery, etc. for
decades.  None of that information is
relevant or reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible
evidence.
Request Nos. 16, 17:  These requests seek all information about
maintenance and repair documents relating to aircraft McDonnel Douglas sold to
Continental before 2010.  These requests
are overbroad and seek information not reasonably calculated to lead to the
discovery of admissible evidence.  For
example, they are not limited to the airlines for whom Plaintiff’s father
worked, the type of planes Plaintiff’s father worked on, the type of work he
did, or the time period he worked on planes. 

The motion is DENIED.  
            The
moving party is to give notice.