 Case Number:  23STCV14304    Hearing Date:   June 28, 2024    Dept:  52 Defendant Los Angeles Unified School
District’s Demurrer to First Amended Complaint 
Defendant Los Angeles Unified School
District (LAUSD) demurs to all causes of action alleged against it by plaintiff
Jane M.R. Doe’s first amended complaint.
Summary
of Allegations
            Plaintiff alleges she was abused by David
Lee Scott, a counselor at her high school, CATCH Prep Charter High School.  (FAC, ¶¶ 21-25.)  She alleges Scott previously worked for LAUSD
at Crenshaw Senior High School.  She
alleges Scott “had inappropriate relationships with multiple female students,
including inappropriate touching and sexual misconduct with at least one
student” at that school.  (FAC, ¶
14.)  LAUSD allegedly “gave Scott
multiple warnings related to him having inappropriate relationships with
students” (¶ 15) and soon “terminated” him “because he failed to maintain
appropriate relationships with students and staff, and because he failed to
fulfill his responsibilities as a counselor” (¶ 16).  LAUSD allegedly “allowed Scott to quietly
resign from his position at Crenshaw Senior High School in exchange for LAUSD
facilitating his move to another school and/or school district.”  (¶ 17.)
            Plaintiff further alleges Scott
quickly applied to work at CATCH, which “required Scott to submit a background
[check] to LAUSD, and … required Scott to work and/or train with LAUSD.”  (¶ 18.) 
“CATCH contacted LAUSD to verify Scott’s fitness for employment and
LAUSD failed to notify CATCH that Scott was unfit to work with children.”  (¶ 19.) 
Plaintiff alleges, “[R]elying on LAUSD’s recommendation, CATCH employed
Scott in August of 2005,” and LAUSD thereby “rid itself of Scott.”  (¶ 20.)
Education
Code § 47604(d)
LAUSD argues it cannot be liable to
plaintiff under Education Code section 47604(d), which provides: “A chartering
authority that grants a charter to a charter school to be operated as or by a
nonprofit public benefit corporation is not liable for the debts or obligations
of the charter school or for claims arising from the performance of acts,
errors, or omissions by the charter school if the chartering authority has
complied with all oversight responsibilities required by law, including, but
not limited to, those required by Section 47604.32 and subdivision (m) of
Section 47605.”  
The first amended complaint, however, does
not only allege LAUSD is vicariously liable “for claims arising from the
performance of acts, errors, or omissions by the charter school.”  Several causes of action against LAUSD arise
from its own alleged conduct with respect to Scott.  This is equivalent to an employer’s liability
for negligent hiring or retention, which “is a theory of direct liability—not
vicarious liability.  In a negligent
hiring/retention cause of action, the neglect alleged is not that of the
employee.  The neglect pleaded is that of
the employer itself.”  (J.W. v. Watchtower
Bible and Tract Society of New York, Inc. (2018) 29 Cal.App.5th 1142, 1163.)  For some causes of action, plaintiff alleges
LAUSD itself was negligent, not that it is liable for CATCH’s negligence.
2nd Cause of Action: Negligent Hiring, Supervision,
and Retention of an Unfit Employee
Plaintiff does
not allege sufficient facts for this cause of action.  Negligent hiring, retention, and supervision
applies “where the plaintiff’s injury occurred in the workplace, or the contact
between the plaintiff and the employee was generated by the employment
relationship.”  (Mendoza v. City of
Los Angeles (1998) 66 Cal.App.4th 1333, 1339–1340.)  “[A]n employer does not owe a
plaintiff a duty of care in a negligent hiring and retention action for an
injury or other harm inflicted by a former employee on the plaintiff even”
if the employee “initially met the plaintiff while employed by the employer.”  (Phillips v. TLC Plumbing, Inc. (2009)
172 Cal.App.4th 1133, 1141.)  
Plaintiff
alleges LAUSD “terminated” Scott (FAC, ¶ 16) or “allowed Scott to quietly
resign” (¶ 17) before he went to work at CATCH (¶¶ 18-20), where he assaulted
plaintiff (¶¶ 21-25).  LAUSD cannot be
liable for negligently supervising or retaining an employee whom it was not
supervising and did not retain.  Though
LAUSD initially hired Scott, that could only pose a foreseeable risk to LAUSD
students during his employment at LAUSD. 
Plaintiff does not even allege she met Scott while he worked for LAUSD.  She provides no authority supporting liability
for negligent hiring, supervision, or retention of a former employee who harmed
the plaintiff after leaving the defendant’s employment.
3rd Cause of Action: Breach of Mandatory Duty
            Plaintiff
does not allege sufficient facts for this cause of action.  Government Code section 815.6 provides,
“Where a public entity is under a mandatory duty imposed by an enactment that
is designed to protect against the risk of a particular kind of injury, the
public entity is liable for an injury of that kind proximately caused by its
failure to discharge the duty unless the public entity establishes that it
exercised reasonable diligence to discharge the duty.”  The elements of this claim are: “(1) a mandatory
duty is imposed by enactment, (2) the duty was designed to protect against the
kind of injury allegedly suffered, and (3) breach of the duty proximately
caused injury.”  (State Dept. of State
Hospitals v. Superior Court (2015) 61 Cal.4th 339, 348.)  
            The
first amended complaint does not allege facts constituting a breach of any
mandatory duty as required for the third element.  Plaintiff concedes the relevant statutes and
regulations (FAC, ¶ 44) apply to current employees and current pupils.  (Opp., p. 8.) 
Plaintiff argues that those duties were “ ‘designed to protect against
the kind of injury allegedly suffered.’ ” 
(Ibid.)  That plaintiff
suffered the relevant kind of injury is not enough.  Failing to supervise a non-employee or a
non-student does not breach any of the mandatory duties alleged.  
By analogy, the
government has a duty to protect people from dangerous conditions on public
property.  (Gov. Code, § 835.)  That duty is designed to protect people
against the kind of injuries (i.e., physical harm) that people can suffer because
of dangerous conditions anywhere.  But it
only applies on public property.  Someone
who suffers the same kind of injury on private property has no claim against
the government for breach of mandatory duty. 

4th Cause of Action: Failure to Report Suspected
Child Abuse
Plaintiff does not allege sufficient facts for this
cause of action.  The Child Abuse and
Neglect Reporting Act (CANRA) “requires a mandated reporter to make a report to
a law enforcement agency or a county welfare department ‘whenever the mandated
reporter, in his or her professional capacity or within the scope of his or her
employment, has knowledge of or observes a child whom the mandated reporter
knows or reasonably suspects has been the victim of child abuse or neglect.’
”  (B.H. v. County of San Bernardino
(2015) 62 Cal.4th 168, 186.)  
The California Supreme Court, however, has stated, “Reasonably
construed, [CANRA] was intended to protect only those children in the custodial
care of the person charged with reporting the abuse, and not all children who
may at some future time be abused by the same offender.”  (Randi W. v. Muroc Joint Unified School
Dist. (1997) 14 Cal.4th 1066, 1087 (Randi W.).)  “To adopt plaintiff’s contrary argument would
impose a broader reporting obligation than the Legislature intended.  Under plaintiff’s interpretation of the
Reporting Act, a child care custodian that fails to report suspected child
abuse affecting one child in its care or custody could be held liable, perhaps
years later, to any other children abused by the same person, whether or not
those children were within its custodial protection.  Neither legislative intent nor public policy
would support such a broad extension of liability.”  (Ibid.) 
The Court of Appeal later found an amendment to
CANRA did not change that conclusion.  “Necessarily,
the child intended to be protected is the child about whom the reporting party
is in a position to observe or to know anything regarding known or suspected
abuse or neglect.  For this reason, Randi
W. was not intended to extend an open-ended liability to all future
children who might conceivably be harmed, even years later, for the failure to
report suspected injury to one child within the knowledge and observation of
the reporter.”  (P.S. v. San
Bernardino City Unified School Dist. (2009) 174 Cal.App.4th 953, 965.)
The first amended complaint alleges LAUSD employed
Scott at Crenshaw Senior High School, where he committed sexual misconduct with
at least one student.  (FAC, ¶ 14.)  Plaintiff, however, attended CATCH, a “public
charter school[]” (¶ 2), where Scott worked after leaving LAUSD (¶ 20).  Though she makes a conclusory allegation that
“LAUSD oversaw both the educational and operational components of CATCH” (¶ 4),
she does not allege any LAUSD employee, within the scope of his or her
employment, suspected she was a victim of sexual abuse.  As in Randi W., “plaintiff fails to
allege that she was ever in [LAUSD’s] custodial care, or even that [LAUSD was]
aware that [the alleged abuser] had molested her.”  (14 Cal.4th at p. 1087.)
5th Cause of Action: Negligent Supervision of a
Minor
            Plaintiff
does not allege sufficient facts for this cause of action.  “School districts are subject to
well-established statutory duties mandating adequate supervision for the
protection of the students. These affirmative duties arise from the compulsory
nature of school attendance, the expectation and reliance of parents and
students on schools for safe buildings and grounds, and the importance to
society of the learning activity that takes place in schools.”  (M. W. v. Panama Buena Vista Union School
Dist. (2003) 110 Cal.App.4th 508, 524–525.) 
            This
cause of action fails because plaintiff does not allege facts establishing
LAUSD had any duty to supervise her.  LAUSD
had no such duty because plaintiff (a) does not allege any injury on LAUSD
property or during an LAUSD function and (b) does not allege she was an LAUSD
student.  “[S]chool districts are not
responsible for the safety of students outside school property absent a
specific undertaking by the school district and direct supervision by a
district employee.”  (Cerna v. City of
Oakland (2008) 161 Cal.App.4th 1340, 1357.) 
Generally, neither a “school district nor any of its employees owe[] a
duty to … a nonstudent who was not on school property.”  (Hoff v. Vacaville Unified School Dist.
(1998) 19 Cal.4th 925, 930.)  
Even if plaintiff
had attended an LAUSD school, a district owes students a duty of care “while [they
are] on campus during ‘school-related or encouraged functions.’ ”  (Achay v. Huntington Beach Union High
School Dist. (2022) 80 Cal.App.5th 528, 536.)  It generally does not owe a duty of care to
students who are not “on school grounds.” 
(Id. at p. 537.)  Plaintiff
alleges she was assaulted at CATCH (FAC, ¶ 23), not on an LAUSD campus or
during a district function.  And even if the
assault occurred on LAUSD’s property, the duty to supervise is limited to
someone who “ ‘was a student at the school, or was on school grounds in
connection with normal school attendance or in connection with a school
function.’ ”  (Id. at p. 538;
accord Regents of University of California v. Superior Court (2018) 4
Cal.5th 607, 633 [“the duty we recognize here is owed not to the public at
large but is limited to enrolled students who are at foreseeable risk of being
harmed in a violent attack while participating in curricular activities at the
school”].)
Plaintiff
alleges she was sexually assaulted while attending CATCH, a charter
school.  “Charter schools are ‘public
schools funded with public money but run by private individuals or entities
rather than traditional public school districts.’ ”  (Anderson Union High School Dist. v.
Shasta Secondary Home School (2016) 4 Cal.App.5th 262, 267–268.)  “ ‘Once approved, charter schools are operated
independently, but are subject to public oversight.’ ”  (American Indian Model Schools v. Oakland
Unified School Dist. (2014) 227 Cal.App.4th 258, 266.)  Moreover, as discussed above, the chartering
authority (i.e., LAUSD) cannot be liable “for claims arising from the
performance of acts, errors, or omissions by the charter school if the
chartering authority has complied with all oversight responsibilities required
by law.”  (Ed. Code, § 47604, subd.
(d).)  Plaintiff provides no authority
finding a public school district liable for failing to supervise a student at a
charter school.  
6th Cause of Action: Negligent Failure to Warn,
Train, or Educate
            Plaintiff
does not allege sufficient facts for this cause of action.  The first amended complaint alleges, “Defendants
had a duty to warn, train, and educate the students in their custody, care, and
control, like Plaintiff, on known and knowable dangers posed by its employees
and/or agents.  Defendants also had a
duty to warn, train, and educate its employees and/or agents on its sexual misconduct
policy and on inappropriate boundary crossing with minor students.  [¶] 
Defendants breached their duty to Plaintiff by failing to warn her of
known and knowable dangers posed by their employees and/or agents … ; by
failing to inform and educate Plaintiff on their sexual misconduct policies and
methods to identify, report, and respond to inappropriate sexual misconduct by faculty
and staff.”  (FAC, ¶¶ 74-75.)
            Plaintiff
does not allege facts establishing LAUSD had any such duty.  This theory of liability arises from Juarez
v. Boy Scouts of America, Inc. (2000) 81 Cal.App.4th 377, 409–410, where
the Court of Appeal imposed “a duty of care on the Scouts to have taken
reasonable protective measures to protect [plaintiff] from the risk of sexual
abuse by adult volunteers involved in scouting programs, such as warning,
training or educating him (either directly or through his parent or adult
volunteers) about how to avoid such a risk.” 
There, the plaintiff was abused by the scoutmaster “during officially
sanctioned scouting events, such as overnight camping trips.”  (Id. at p. 385.)  The plaintiff was a member of the Boy
Scouts.  Here, plaintiff was not a
student of LAUSD.  She attended a charter
school.  LAUSD had no duty to warn,
train, or educate a child who was not a student in its district.  
Plaintiff’s
reliance on C.A. v. William S. Hart Union High School Dist. (2012) 53
Cal.4th 861 is misplaced.  There, the
California Supreme Court stated, “[T]he duty of care owed by school personnel
includes the duty to use reasonable measures to protect students from
foreseeable injury at the hands of third parties acting negligently or
intentionally.”  (Id. at p. 870.)  That duty exists because “a school district
and its employees have a special relationship with the district’s pupils.”  (Id. at p. 869.)  Plaintiff provides no authority that a
district has such a relationship with pupils at charter schools authorized by
the district.
7th Cause of Action: Negligence
            Plaintiff
does not allege sufficient facts for this cause of action for the same reasons
as her other negligence claims.  The
seventh cause of action primarily restates theories of negligence alleged in
other claims.  The allegation that “[d]efendants
failed to take any preventative action to control, curb, and/or prevent”
Scott’s sexual abuse (FAC, ¶ 84) duplicates the second cause of action for
negligent hiring, supervision, and retention. 
The allegation that defendants “failed to warn Plaintiff or her parents”
(ibid.) duplicates the sixth cause of action for failure to warn, train,
or educate.  
Plaintiff also
alleges “LAUSD failed to warn CATCH of Scott’s wrongful conduct, and his being
unfit to work with minors.”  (FAC, ¶ 86.)  A former employer’s liability in this context
requires either affirmative misrepresentations or “misleading half-truths” to “invoke
an exception to the general rule excluding liability for mere nondisclosure or
other failure to act.”  (Randi W.,
supra, 14 Cal.4th at p. 1084.)  That
“LAUSD failed to warn CATCH” is nondisclosure or failure to act.   
9th Cause of Action: Sexual Harassment
            Plaintiff
does not allege sufficient facts for this cause of action against LAUSD.  “[A] school district can be held liable for
damages when a teacher sexually harasses a student.  [Citation.] 
However, the district is not liable ‘unless an official of the school
district who at a minimum has authority to institute corrective measures on the
district’s behalf has actual notice of, and is deliberately indifferent to, the
[employee’s] misconduct.’ ”  (Roe v.
Hesperia Unified School District (2022) 85 Cal.App.5th 13, 33; accord Donovan
v. Poway Unified School Dist. (2008) 167 Cal.App.4th 567, 601.)  
            This
cause of action relies on various conclusory allegations that do not
distinguish between CATCH and LAUSD. 
(FAC, ¶¶ 97-103.)  These
allegations do not constitute a cause of action for sexual harassment against
LAUSD. 
Plaintiff’s
opposition argues LAUSD had the “power to prevent the abuse of Plaintiff … by
disclosing Scott’s sexual misconduct both to the charter school and to law
enforcement.”  (Opp., pp. 12-13.)  Those would not be measures taken on the
district’s behalf to correct sexual harassment. 
Such measures include, for example, keeping the student away from her
abuser and punishing the abuser.  (Oden
v. Northern Marianas College (9th Cir. 2006) 440 F.3d 1085, 1089.)  Disclosing Scott’s sexual misconduct to third
parties is not such a measure.  Plaintiff’s
argument conflates this claim with the separate theory of liability alleged in
the 10th and 11th causes of action. 
Plaintiff provides no authority holding a public school district liable
for sexual harassment that occurred at a charter school.  
10th & 11th Causes of Action: Intentional and
Negligent Misrepresentation
            Plaintiff
alleges sufficient facts for these causes of action.  LAUSD argues plaintiff did not allege it made
any misrepresentation to her or that she relied on any misrepresentation.  Those are typically elements of fraud, but
the California Supreme Court held they do not apply in circumstances equivalent
to plaintiff’s allegations.  (Randi W.,
supra, 14 Cal.4th at p. 1085.)  In Randi
W., as in this case, the plaintiff sued the school district that previously
employed her alleged abuser for falsely recommending him to the employer where
he abused her.  (Id. at pp.
1071-1073.)  The Court held, “[P]laintiff
need only allege that her injury resulted from action that the recipient
of defendants’ misrepresentations took in reliance on them.  In a case involving false or fraudulent
letters of recommendation sent to prospective employers regarding a potentially
dangerous employee, it would be unusual for the person ultimately injured
by the employee actually to ‘rely’ on such letters, much less even be aware of
them.”  (Ibid.)  
            LAUSD
contends Randi W. does not apply because the California Supreme Court “limited
potential liability for letters of recommendation to actual misrepresentations,
as distinct from nondisclosures, and to circumstances in which the
misrepresentation ‘present[ed] a substantial, foreseeable risk of physical
injury to the third persons.’ ”  (C.A.
v. William S. Hart Union High School Dist. (2012) 53 Cal.4th 861, 877.)  
The first amended complaint adequately alleges
actual misrepresentations or “misleading half-truths.”  (Randi W., supra, 14 Cal.4th at p.
1084.)  It alleges LAUSD gave Scott “positive
reviews and recommendations,” which “either directly or implicitly indicated
that Scott was fit to interact appropriately and safely with students.”  (FAC, ¶ 114.) 
That amounts to a misleading half-truth because it occurred after LAUSD
received a complaint by “[a]t least one student and her parents” that Scott “had
behaved inappropriately with her” (¶ 14), gave him “multiple warnings” about
“having inappropriate relationships with students” (¶ 15), and allowed him “to
quietly resign” (¶ 17) instead of officially terminating him “because he failed
to maintain appropriate relationships with students and staff, and because he
failed to fulfill his responsibilities as a counselor” (¶ 16).  
LAUSD also
argues plaintiff did not specifically allege the facts necessary for an entity
to be liable for fraud.  When alleging
fraud against an entity, the plaintiff generally “must ‘allege the names of the
persons who made the allegedly fraudulent representations, their authority to
speak, to whom they spoke, what they said or wrote, and when it was said or
written.’ ”  (Lazar v. Superior Court (1996)
12 Cal.4th 631, 645.)  But “the
requirement of specificity is relaxed when the allegations indicate that ‘the
defendant must necessarily possess full information concerning the facts of the
controversy.’ ”  (Tarmann v. State
Farm Mut. Auto. Ins. Co. (1991) 2 Cal.App.4th 153, 158; accord Committee
on Children's Television, Inc. v. General Foods Corp. (1983) 35 Cal.3d 197,
217 [“less particularity is required when the facts lie more in the knowledge
of the opposite party”].)  Plaintiff
alleges LAUSD made misrepresentations to CATCH, not to her.  LAUSD necessarily possesses far greater
knowledge than her about these specifics. 
Plaintiff alleges sufficient facts for LAUSD to identify the
details.  
Unconstitutional
Gift
LAUSD contends this action is barred
because plaintiff’s claims all rely on AB 218, which amended Code of Civil
Procedure section 340.1 and Government Code section 905 to revive formerly
barred claims for childhood sexual abuse. 
(Stats. 2019, ch. 861.)  LAUSD
argues this statute violates the constitutional prohibition on gifts of public
funds.  For the reasons stated in the
order of today’s date in Jane C.R. Doe v. Los Angeles Unified School
District, Case No. 22STCV13174, the court rejects this argument.
Disposition
            Defendant Los Angeles Unified School
District’s demurrer to plaintiff’s 2nd through 7th and 9th causes of action is sustained
with 20 days’ leave to amend. 
Defendant’s demurrer to the 10th and 11th causes of action is overruled.  