  Case Number:  22STCV13174    Hearing Date:   June 28, 2024    Dept:  52 (I) Defendant Los Angeles Unified
School District’s Motion in Limine No. 1; (II) Plaintiffs Jane C.R. Doe and
Jane M.R. Doe’s Motion to Consolidate Related Cases for Trial
(I)
LAUSD’s Motions in Limine No. 1
In Case No. 22STCV13174, defendant Los Angeles Unified School District
(LAUSD) moves in limine to exclude references to alleged sexual abuse by co-defendant
David Lee Scott against people other than plaintiff Jane C.R. Doe.  In Case No. 23STCV14304, LAUSD moves in limine
to exclude references to alleged sexual abuse by co-defendant David Lee Scott
against people other than plaintiff Jane M.R. Doe.  
A. Character
Evidence
LAUSD argues evidence Scott abused other girls is inadmissible under
Evidence Code section 1101.  Generally, “evidence of a person’s character or a
trait of his or her character (whether in the form of an opinion, evidence of
reputation, or evidence of specific instances of his or her conduct) is
inadmissible when offered to prove his or her conduct on a specified
occasion.”  (Evid. Code, § 1101(a).)  Such evidence is permitted “when relevant to
prove some fact (such as motive, opportunity, intent, preparation, plan,
knowledge, identity, absence of mistake or accident, or whether a defendant in
a prosecution for an unlawful sexual act or attempted unlawful sexual act did
not reasonably and in good faith believe that the victim consented) other than
his or her disposition to commit such an act.” 
(Id., subd. (b).)  Such
evidence may also be admissible “when offered to support or attack the
credibility of a witness.”  (Id.,
subd. (c).)
Evidence Code section 1101
does not categorically preclude admitting all potential evidence Scott abused
others.  “The first inquiry under
Evidence Code section 1101, subdivision (b) is whether this evidence goes to a
material fact.”  (Brown v. Smith
(1997) 55 Cal.App.4th 767, 794.) 
“Secondly, it must be considered whether the evidence has a tendency to
prove the material facts.”  (Ibid.)  The court should consider the “severity” of
the defendant’s alleged misconduct “before making the determination that the
uncharged acts tended to prove the material facts alleged by” the plaintiff and
“the related determination of prejudice.” 
(Id. at p. 795.)
Evidence Scott abused others may be relevant to material facts of the entity
defendants’ knowledge about him.  Both
plaintiffs seek to hold LAUSD and CATCH liable for negligent hiring, retention,
or supervision, though the court is today sustaining LAUSD’s demurrer to this
cause of action with leave to amend.  Liability turns on whether the employer knew or
should have known the “propensity or disposition” of the employee to sexually
assault others (Z. V. v. County of Riverside (2015) 238 Cal.App.4th 889,
903) or knew or should have known “the particular risk of molestation by an
employee with a history of this specific conduct.”  (Evan F. v. Hughson United Methodist
Church (1992) 8 Cal.App.4th 828, 837.) 
What LAUSD and CATCH knew or should have known is highly material.  Plaintiff M.R. also alleges LAUSD fraudulently
misrepresented Scott’s fitness as a teacher or counselor to CATCH.  (See Randi W. v. Muroc Joint Unified
School Dist. (1997) 14 Cal.4th 1066.) 
Those claims require plaintiff to prove that LAUSD knew or should have
known Scott was unfit to work at CATCH.  Some of the evidence LAUSD moves to exclude therefore
likely falls within the “knowledge” exception under Evidence Code section
1101(b).        
Plaintiff C.R. alleges
Scott sexually abused her at LAUSD’s Crenshaw High school beginning in the
2003/2004 school year (C.R. Comp., ¶¶ 9-11), then at CATCH in the 2005/2006
school year (id., ¶ 12).  Plaintiff
M.R. alleges Scott abused her at CATCH during the 2005/2006 school year.  (M.R. FAC, ¶¶ 21-25.)  Depending on the timing of events and the
precise evidence offered, testimony that Scott abused one victim would have a
tendency in reason to prove the material facts of whether CATCH knew or should
have known he posed a risk of abusing either plaintiff.  
There are two major
caveats.  First, evidence Scott abused
M.R. at CATCH in 2005 to 2006 is not relevant to prove what LAUSD knew or
should have known earlier. Accordingly, evidence of Scott’s alleged abuse of
M.R. is probably inadmissible against LAUSD in Case No. 22STCV13174 but is
admissible against CATCH in that case.  An instruction about the limited admissibility
of such evidence can address this issue.  Second, evidence Scott abused another girl
would not be relevant if no one else knew about it and if the circumstances do
not indicate the schools would have any reason to know about it.  Aside from the entities’ knowledge about
Scott, plaintiffs do not establish, at this time, a basis for any other exception
to Evidence Code section 1101.     
B. Evidence Code section 352
Portions of the proffered evidence may be inadmissible under Evidence
Code section 352.  That section provides,
“The court in its discretion may exclude evidence if its probative value is
substantially outweighed by the probability that its admission will (a)
necessitate undue consumption of time or (b) create substantial danger of undue
prejudice, of confusing the issues, or of misleading the jury.”  Undue prejudice refers to “evidence which uniquely tends to evoke
an emotional bias against ... [one party] as an individual and which has very
little effect on the issues.’ ”  (People
v. Wright (1985) 39 Cal.3d 576, 585.)
Here,
testimony by victims about the details of sexual assault would be likely to
evoke an emotional bias against Scott and the other defendants.  Such evidence has very little effect on the
issues in each trial of (a) whether Scott assaulted each plaintiff and (b) what
the entity defendants knew or should have known about Scott.  On the other hand, evidence that others
reported Scott’s abuse of either plaintiff or that Scott openly abused either
plaintiff in the presence of others has great probative value on the issue of
the entities’ knowledge about Scott.  Given
the paucity of evidence in the record at this time, the court cannot
categorically exclude “me too” evidence pursuant to Evidence Code section 352 before
the trials begin.
C. Punitive Damages
Plaintiffs
argue evidence of other misconduct is relevant to the degree of
reprehensibility for punitive damages.  LAUSD
cannot be liable for punitive damages (Gov. Code, § 818), but its co-defendants
can.  When determining the reasonableness
of punitive damages, “[t]he degree of reprehensibility of the defendant’s
conduct is the most important indicator.” 
(Izell v. Union Carbide Corp. (2014) 231 Cal.App.4th 962, 985.) Courts
consider, among other factors, whether “ ‘the conduct involved repeated actions
or was an isolated incident.’ ”  (Ibid.)  
Here,
the evidence’s probative value may be substantially outweighed by the
probability of undue prejudice.  Evidence
of repeated sexual assaults has minimal probative value on reprehensibility
because sexually assaulting a minor is inherently reprehensible.  (See J. C. Penney Casualty Ins. Co.
v. M. K. (1991) 52 Cal.3d 1009, 1021 [“There is no such thing as negligent or
even reckless sexual molestation.  The
very essence of child molestation is the gratification of sexual desire.  The act is the harm.  There cannot be one without the other.  Thus, the intent to molest is, by itself, the
same as the intent to harm.”].)  Evidence
of sexually assaulting other victims is highly inflammatory and likely to cause
undue prejudice. 
D. Conclusion
The
court exercises its discretion to deny LAUSD’s motions in limine No. 1.  On motions in limine, courts should not “rule in a
vacuum.”  (Kelly v. New West Federal
Savings (1996) 49 Cal.App.4th 659, 670.)  In some circumstances, “until the evidence is actually offered, and the court is aware of
its relevance in context, its probative value, and its potential for prejudice,
matters related to the state of the evidence at the time an objection is made,
the court cannot intelligently rule on admissibility.”  (People v. Jennings (1988) 46 Cal.3d
963, 975, fn. 3.)  
For the reasons discussed above, some of the evidence LAUSD moves
to exclude will likely be admissible. 
Other portions of that evidence will likely be inadmissible.  Issuing an order excluding some potential
evidence now would be premature.  Instead,
defendants may object to specific evidence at trial.
(II)
Plaintiffs’ Motion to Consolidate
Plaintiffs
Jane C.R. Doe and Jane M.R. Doe move to consolidate their two actions for
trial.  The court has found Jane C.R.
Doe v. Los Angeles Unified School District, et al., No. 22STCV13174 related
to Jane M.R. Doe v. CATCH Prep Charter High School, Inc., et al., No.
23STCV14304.  
Code of
Civil Procedure section 1048(a) provides, “When actions involving a common
question of law or fact are pending before the court, it may order a joint
hearing or trial of any or all the matters in issue in the actions; it may
order all the actions consolidated and it may make such orders concerning
proceedings therein as may tend to avoid unnecessary costs or delay.”  On the other hand, even within a single
action, courts may order separate trials of causes of action or issues “in
furtherance of convenience or to avoid prejudice, or when separate trials will
be conducive to expedition and economy.” 
(Id., subd. (b).)
The two cases involve some common
questions of fact and law.  Both plaintiffs allege defendant David Lee
Scott sexually assaulted them when he worked at schools they attended.  Both plaintiffs allege various theories of
liability against LAUSD and CATCH Prep Charter High School, Inc.
Whether consolidation is appropriate
depends primarily on whether certain evidence will be admissible in both
trials.  The Court of Appeal has stated, “The
fact that evidence in the one case might not have been admissible in the other
does not bar a consolidation.”  (Jud
Whitehead Heater Co. v. Obler (1952) 111 Cal.App.2d 861, 867.)  In these circumstances, however, the
potentially inadmissible evidence would be so prejudicial that it weighs
heavily against consolidation.
The court will exercise its discretion not
to consolidate the actions.  It is highly
probable that some evidence admissible in M.R.’s trial will not be admissible
in C.R.’s trial and would be unduly prejudicial.  Plaintiff C.R. alleges she was sexually
abused beginning in 2004.  (C.R. Comp., ¶
2004.)  Scott’s alleged abuse of M.R. in
2005 to 2006 (M.R. FAC, ¶¶ 21-25) has no tendency in reason to prove what LAUSD
knew or should have known in 2004.  It is
also likely that evidence of the precise details of the alleged abuse against
the other plaintiff may be inadmissible in each case.  Though consolidating the actions may be
convenient and efficient, it presents too great a risk of unduly prejudicing
defendants.   
Disposition
Defendant
Los Angeles Unified School District’s motions in limine No. 1are denied.  Defendants may object to specific evidence
offered at trial.
Plaintiffs’
motion to consolidate actions for trial is denied.  Defendant Los Angeles Unified School
District’s Motion for Judgment on the Pleadings Defendant Los Angeles Unified School
District (LAUSD) moves for judgment on the pleadings on plaintiff Jane C.R.
Doe’s complaint.Unconstitutional
Gift            Defendant contends this action is
barred because plaintiff’s claims all rely on AB 218, which amended Code of Civil
Procedure section 340.1 and Government Code section 905 to revive formerly
barred claims for childhood sexual abuse. 
(Stats. 2019, ch. 861.)  Defendant
argues this statute violates the constitutional prohibition on gifts of public
funds.  “The Legislature shall have no
power to give or to lend, or to authorize the giving or lending … in any manner
whatever, for the payment of liabilities of any individual, association,
municipal or other corporation whatever; nor shall it have power to make any gift
or authorize the making of any gift, of any public money.”  (Cal. Const. Art. XVI, sec. 6.)A.
Gift of Public FundsDefendant’s argument fails because AB 218
does not appropriate, give, or lend any money to anyone.  Every case defendant cites that held
something was an unconstitutional gift concerns legislative acts directly
requiring payments to specific individuals, entities, or to an identifiable
group.  For example, in Orange County
Foundation v. Irvine Co. (1983) 139 Cal.App.3d 195, 200, the
unconstitutional gift arose from “a settlement agreement … resulting in the
payment of money” by the State to the Irvine Company.  In both Bourn v. Hart (1892) 93 Cal.
321, 326 and Conlin v. Board of Sup’rs of City and County of San Francisco
(1893) 99 Cal. 17, 19 the unconstitutional gift was a statute paying one man a
specific amount of money.  In Powell
v. Phelan (1903) 138 Cal. 271, 273, the unconstitutional gift was a statute
providing that people who previously served as jurors “ ‘shall receive and be
paid out of the general fund of such county or city’ ” where they served. AB 218 does not appropriate any money or require
the government to pay anyone.  It does
not compromise any claim.  It revives
formerly barred claims.  Defendant cites
no authority holding that a statute reviving untimely claims against the
government constitutes a gift.  Defendant’s argument relies on dicta that,
under the California Constitution’s provision that “forbids the legislature from
making any gift of public money or other thing of value to any person, the
legislature has no power to create a liability against the state for any past
act of negligence upon the part of its officers.”  (Chapman v. State (1894) 104 Cal. 690,
693; accord Heron v. Riley (1930) 209 Cal. 507, 517 [“The Legislature
has not attempted to create a liability against the state for any past acts of
negligence on the part of its officers, agents or employees—something it could
not do, and the doing of which would, in effect, be the making of a gift”].)  The court is unpersuaded that this dicta
applies to the present case.  As
discussed below, Coats v. New Haven Unified School District (2020) 46
Cal.App.5th 415 (Coats) held AB 218 was constitutional and did not retroactively
create liability. B.
Invalid Claim            Defendant’s argument relies on the
premise that plaintiff’s claims are invalid. 
It is true that the “ ‘appropriation of money by the legislature for the
relief of one who has no legal claim . . .  must be regarded as a gift.’ ”  (Jordan v. California Dept. of Motor
Vehicles (2002) 100 Cal.App.4th 431, 450.) 
“Likewise “[t]he compromise of a wholly invalid claim … is inadequate
consideration and the expenditure of public funds for such a claim serves no
public purpose and violates the gift clause.” 
(Ibid.)                Relying on Shirk v. Vista Unified
School Dist. (2007) 42 Cal.4th 201 (Shirk), defendant contends
plaintiff’s claims are invalid because, though the Legislature can revive
claims previously barred by the statute of limitations, “the government claim
presentation deadline is not a statute of limitations.”  (Id. at p. 213.)   But
the next sentence of Shirk states, “Had the Legislature intended to also
revive in [Code of Civil Procedure, section 340.1,] subdivision (c) the claim
presentation deadline under the government claims statute, it could have easily
said so.”  (Ibid.)  As Coats recognized, that is
exactly what the Legislature did in AB 218. 
“The express inclusion of ‘claim presentation deadline[s]’ in Assembly
Bill 218 distinguishes it from the 2002 amendment to Code of Civil Procedure
section 340.1.  …  In Assembly Bill 218, the Legislature made
clear its intent to revive causes of action previously barred by government
claims presentation requirements.”  (Coats,
supra, 46 Cal.App.5th at p. 428.)  In
addition to amending Code of Civil Procedure section 340.1, AB 218 amended
Government Code section 905, which makes exceptions to the claim presentation
deadline.  (Stats. 2019, ch. 861, § 3.)  Though “the government claim presentation
deadline is not a statute of limitations” (Shirk, supra, 42 Cal.4th at
p. 213), that distinction does not matter here. 
Coats rejected that argument when analyzing whether AB 218 was
unconstitutional for reasons other than as a gift of public funds.  The Court of Appeal reasoned, “The present
case, of course, involves revival of a cause of action barred by a claim
presentation requirement, not a statute of limitations.  But we are aware of no reason the Legislature
should be any less able to revive claims in this context, as it expressly did
in Assembly Bill 218.”  (Coats, supra,
46 Cal.App.5th at p. 428.)Defendant argues Coats does not
apply because it did not consider the California Constitution’s section
prohibiting gifts of public funds.  But
defendant’s argument that AB 218 provides an unconstitutional gift relies on
the premises that: (a) the law requires payments for invalid claims, and (b)
the claims are invalid because the Legislature cannot revive causes of action
barred by the claim presentation deadline (as opposed to the statute of
limitations).  Coats held the
Legislature can revive causes of action against the government that were
previously barred by the claim presentation deadline.  The court therefore cannot deem plaintiff’s
claim invalid at this stage in the proceedings.            Defendant also incorrectly argues “Coats
was filed prior to the passage of AB 218.” 
(Reply, p. 3.)  AB 218 was enacted
on October 13, 2019.  (Stats. 2019, ch.
861.)  Coats was decided on March
12, 2020, and discusses AB 218 at length. 
It expressly notes, “The District initially offered the additional
argument that it would be improper for us to base a decision on a law that had
not yet taken effect.  That point is no
longer relevant due to the passage of time, as Assembly Bill 218 became
effective on January 1, 2020.”  (Coats,
supra, 46 Cal.App.5th at p. 424, fn. 5.)            Assuming any liability against the
government under AB 218 would otherwise constitute a gift of public money, it is
constitutional because the statute was enacted for a public purpose.  “The determination of what constitutes a
public purpose is primarily a matter for the Legislature to determine, and its
discretion will not be disturbed by the courts so long as that determination
has a reasonable basis.”  (County of
Alameda v. Carleson (1971) 5 Cal.3d 730, 746.)  As Coats noted, “the Legislature has
consistently worked to expand the ability of victims of childhood sexual abuse
to seek compensation from the responsible parties, on several occasions in
direct response to restrictive judicial opinions.”  (Coats, supra, 46 Cal.App.5th at p. 430.)  Regarding
a prior amendment to Code of Civil Procedure section 340.1, the Court of Appeal
stated, “vested rights are not immune from retroactive laws when an important
state interest is at stake.”  (Liebig
v. Superior Court (1989) 209 Cal.App.3d 828, 834 (Liebig).)  In Liebig, the court held “the
important state interest espoused by section 340.1 is the increased
availability of tort relief to plaintiffs who had been the victims of sexual abuse
while a minor.  …  The language of the retroactivity provision of
section 340.1 indicates a clear legislative intent to maximize claims of
sexual-abuse minor plaintiffs for as expansive a period of time as possible.  The public policy is manifest from the text of
the law.”  (Ibid.)  The same reasoning applies to AB 218.  Sufficiency
of Allegations            Defendant also
argues plaintiff’s complaint does not allege her causes of action with the particularity
required for claims against the government. 
Defendant’s motion attacks the wrong complaint.  (Memo, pp. 14-15.)  Plaintiff alleges abuse by David Lee Scott at
Crenshaw High School and Crenshaw Arts Tech Charter High (Comp., ¶¶ 9-13)—not
abuse by “Thomas DeWitt” at “68th Street Elementary School.”  (Memo, pp. 14-15.)  Plaintiff’s complaint meets the applicable
pleading requirements.Disposition
            Defendant Los Angeles Unified School
District’s motion for judgment on the pleadings is denied.