  Case Number:  23STCV24731    Hearing Date:   August 7, 2024    Dept:  31 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Kerry Bensinger, Department 31
 
 
HEARING DATE:     August
7, 2024                                               TRIAL DATE:  Not set
                                                           
CASE:                                April Dickson v. Makita U.S.A., Inc., et al.
 
CASE NO.:                 23STCV24731
 





















 
MOTION
TO QUASH SERVICE OF SUMMONS



 
MOVING
PARTY:              Specially Appearing Defendant James
Hardie Building Products, Inc.
 
RESPONDING
PARTY:     Plaintiff April Dickson,
individually and as successor-in-interest for Danny L. Dickson
 
 
I.          INTRODUCTION
 
            This is a wrongful death action arising from alleged exposure
to silica.  Decedent Danny Dickson worked
in the construction industry.  In that
time, Mr. Dickson worked with a product called Hardie board in the State of
Alabama.  Defendant James Hardie Building
Products (“JHBP”) manufactured the Hardie board in Los Angeles County.  Around September 2022, Mr. Dickson was
diagnosed with silicosis and died from this disease a month later.  Mr. Dickson is survived by his spouse, Plaintiff
April Dickson.  
 
Plaintiff April Dickson (hereafter, “Plaintiff”) commenced
this action on October 10, 2023 and filed the operative First Amended Complaint
(FAC) on March 15, 2024.  As alleged,
JHBP is incorporated in the state of Delaware and has its principal place of
business in Illinois.
 
On March 26, 2024, Plaintiff filed a Proof of Service of
Summons which states that JHBP was served with the summons and FAC on March 19,
2024 by personal service.  
 
On April 17, 2024, JHBP filed the Motion to Quash Service of
Summons and Complaint for Lack of Personal Jurisdiction.
 
            Plaintiff
filed an opposition.  JHBP replied.
 
II.        LEGAL
STANDARD 
 
            A defendant
may move to quash service of summons on the ground of lack of jurisdiction of
the court over him or her.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 418.10, subd.
(a)(1).)  The court may dismiss without prejudice the complaint in whole,
or as to that defendant, when dismissal is made pursuant to Section
418.10.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 581, subd. (h).)   
 
“A court of this state may exercise jurisdiction on any
basis not inconsistent with the Constitution of this state or of the United
States.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 410.10.)  “The Due Process Clause
protects an individual’s liberty interest in not being subject to the binding
judgments of a forum with which he has established no meaningful ‘contacts,
ties, or relations.’” (Burger King Corp. v. Rudzewicz (1985) 471 U.S.
462, 471-472.)  A state court may not exercise personal jurisdiction over
a party under circumstances that would offend “traditional notions of fair play
and substantial justice.”  (Asahi Metal Industry Co., Ltd., v. Superior
Court of California, Solano County (1987) 480 U.S. 102,
113.)   
 
When a defendant moves to quash service of process on
jurisdictional grounds, the plaintiff has the initial burden of demonstrating
facts justifying the exercise of jurisdiction. (Jayone Foods, Inc. v.
Aekyung Industrial Co. Ltd. (2019) 31 Cal.App.5th 543, 553.)  Once
facts showing minimum contacts with the forum state are established, the
defendant has the burden to demonstrate that the exercise of jurisdiction would
be unreasonable.  (Ibid.)  “The plaintiff must provide
specific evidentiary facts, through affidavits and other authenticated
documents, sufficient to allow the court to independently conclude whether
jurisdiction is appropriate. [Citation.]  The plaintiff cannot rely on
allegations in an unverified complaint or vague and conclusory assertions of
ultimate facts.  [Citation.]”  (Strasner v. Touchstone Wireless
Repair & Logistics, LP (2016) 5 Cal.App.5th 215, 222.) 
 
A defendant is subject to a state’s general jurisdiction if
its contacts “are so continuance and systematic as to render [it] essentially
at home in the forum State.”  (Daimler AG v. Bauman (2014) 571 U.S.
117, 127.)  “A court may exercise specific jurisdiction over a nonresident
defendant only if: (1) if the defendant has purposefully availed himself or
herself of forum benefits; (2) the controversy is related to or arises out of
the defendant’s contacts with the forum; and (3) the assertion of personal
jurisdiction would comport with fair play and substantial justice. (Pavlovich
v. Superior Court (2002) 29 Cal.4th 262, 269 (cleaned up).) This test does
not require a “causal relationship between the defendant’s in-state activity
and the litigation.”  (Ford Motor Co. v. Montana Eighth Judicial
District Court (2021) 592 U.S. 351, 362.)  The “arise out” of standard
“asks about causation,” but “relate to” does not. (Ibid.) “When a
corporation has continuously and deliberately exploited a State’s market, it
must reasonably anticipate being haled into that State’s courts to defend
actions based on products causing injury there.”  (Id. at p. 364
(cleaned up).) 
 
III.       EVIDENTIARY
OBJECTIONS
 
            JBHP asserts five objections to paragraphs 3, 4, 8, 13, and
14 of the Declaration of Amy Carter and to Exhibits 1, 2, and 3 attached
thereto.  The objections to paragraphs 3,
4, 8, and exhibits 1, 2 and 3 are SUSTAINED for lack of foundation.  The objections to paragraphs 13 and 14 are
OVERRULED. 
 
IV.       DISCUSSION
 
            JHBP argues
it should be dismissed from this action because this court does not have
personal jurisdiction over JHBP.  In
opposition, Plaintiff focuses solely on the issue of specific jurisdiction and
therefore concedes this court does not have general jurisdiction over JHBP.  As such, the sole issue to be decided is
whether this court has specific jurisdiction. 

 
The three elements for the exercise of specific jurisdiction
are: (1) purposeful availment, (2) whether the controversy is related to or
arises out of the defendant’s contacts with the forum, and (3) whether
exercising personal jurisdiction would comport with fair play and substantial
justice.  (Pavlovich v. Superior Court
(2002) 29 Cal.4th 262, 269 (cleaned up).) 
The plaintiff has the initial burden of demonstrating facts justifying
the exercise of jurisdiction. (Jayone Foods, Inc. v. Aekyung Industrial Co.
Ltd. (2019) 31 Cal.App.5th 543, 553.)           
 
Here, Plaintiff argues in conclusory fashion that the court
has specific jurisdiction because JHBP conducted the research and development
of its silica-containing products, including the Hardie board which Mr. Dickson
was exposed to, in the State of California. 
Plaintiff’s arguments the elements of specific jurisdiction are
undeveloped.  Moreover, the court has
sustained JHBP’s objections to Plaintiff’s evidence.  Thus, Plaintiff has not provided any evidentiary
support to establish JHBP’s availment of California’s benefits, or whether this
controversy is related to or arises out of JHBP’s contacts in this forum. 
 
Alternatively, Plaintiff requests a continuance of this
motion to conduct jurisdictional discovery. 
“A trial court has the discretion to continue the hearing on a motion to
quash service of summons for lack of personal jurisdiction to allow the
plaintiff to conduct discovery on jurisdictional issues.”  (HealthMarkets, Inc. v. Superior Court
(2009) 171 Cal.App.4th 1160, 1173.)  “In
order to prevail on a motion for a continuance for jurisdictional discovery,
the plaintiff should demonstrate that discovery is likely to lead to the
production of evidence of facts establishing jurisdiction.”  (In re Auto. Antitrust Cases I & II (2005)
135 Cal.App.4th 100, 127.)
 
Plaintiff contends jurisdictional discovery is warranted and
necessary to show JHBP had extensive contacts with California and that Plaintiff’s
harm arose from or was related to those contacts.  Such discovery would include, but not be
limited to, the following subjects: 
 
1.     
James Hardies’s research,
development and design of products in its California-based facilities that were
distributed across the United States, including those products distributed to
the Decedent; 
2.     
James Hardie’s purchases of
materials from California to manufacture its products; 
3.     
Licenses or permits issued to James
Hardie in California; 
4.     
California entities that may own a
significant interest in James Hardie; 
5.     
Contracts, agreements, transactions,
and/or joint ventures between James Hardie and California-based companies; 
6.     
Benefits or revenue derived from
James Hardie’s California contacts; and  
7.     
California state and/or federal
lawsuits in which James Hardie filed suit as the plaintiff or filed a
cross-complaint.
 
Based on the foregoing, the court agrees with Plaintiff that
a continuance is appropriate  to allow
Plaintiff to conduct jurisdictional discovery.
 
            
V.        CONCLUSION 
 
The Hearing for Specially Appearing Defendant James Hardie Building
Products’ Motion To Quash is CONTINUED to November 22, 2024, to allow Plaintiff
to conduct jurisdictional discovery.  
 
The court sets a Status Conference re: Jurisdictional
Discovery for October 21, 2024 at 9:00 a.m.
 
The clerk of the court to give notice.
 
 
Dated:   August 7, 2024                                             




 


   




 


  Kerry
  Bensinger  
  Judge of
  the Superior Court 




 