 Case Number:  23AHCV01999    Hearing Date:   September 12, 2024    Dept:  P [TENTATIVE]
ORDER FINDING PLAINTIFF JOHN CHICHESTER’S MOTION TO COMPEL DEPOSITION OF
DEFENDANT CLAUDIA MADDOX MOOT AND AWARDING SANCTIONS IN THE AMOUNT REQUESTED                         
I.         
INTRODUCTION
This personal injury case arises from a vehicle colliding with a
cyclist. Plaintiff John Chichester (“Plaintiff”) alleges that while riding his
bicycle on January 24, 2023, at Grand Avenue and Madeline Drive in Pasadena,
CA, Defendant Claudia Maddox (“Defendant”)’s vehicle struck him. On or about
August 30, 2023, Plaintiff filed a Complaint against Defendant alleging general
negligence and motor vehicle negligence. 
On March 25, 2024, Plaintiff filed the instant motion to compel
the deposition of Defendant, or alternatively for a protective order, and for
monetary sanctions. On July 5, 2024, Defendant opposed the motion, and on July
11, 2024, Plaintiff replied.
On July 18, 2024, the Court continued the instant motion and
ordered counsel to meet and confer. The Court noted that the approval for the
guardian ad litem had been granted and signed. 
On July 31, 2024, a stipulation and order regarding the deposition
of Defendant was filed and signed by the Court, stating that Defendant does not
have to appear for deposition and will not offer testimony in this case
including at trial. The stipulation and order also states that the instant
motion shall remain on calendar only for the Court to determine sanctions. Thus,
only sanctions remain at issue. 
On August 28, 2024, Defendant filed another opposition to the
instant motion. As Defendant already filed an opposition to the motion, the
Court declines to consider the second unauthorized opposition. 
                       
II.         
LEGAL
STANDARD
            CCP §2025.450 provides the
following:
(a) If, after
service of a deposition notice, a party to the action or an officer, director,
managing agent, or employee of a party, or a person designated by an
organization that is a party under Section 2025.230, without having served a
valid objection under Section 2025.410, fails to appear for examination, or to
proceed with it, or to produce for inspection any document, electronically
stored information, or tangible thing described in the deposition notice, the
party giving the notice may move for an order compelling the deponent’s
attendance and testimony, and the production for inspection of any document,
electronically stored information, or tangible thing described in the
deposition notice. 
(b) A motion
under subdivision (a) shall comply with both of the following: 
(1) The
motion shall set forth specific facts showing good cause justifying the
production for inspection of any document, electronically stored information,
or tangible thing described in the deposition notice. 
(2) The
motion shall be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration under Section
2016.040, or, when the deponent fails to attend the deposition and produce the
documents, electronically stored information, or things described in the
deposition notice, by a declaration stating that the petitioner has contacted
the deponent to inquire about the nonappearance. 
. . . 
(g)(1) If a
motion under subdivision (a) is granted, the court shall impose a monetary
sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010) in favor of the
party who noticed the deposition and against the deponent or the party with
whom the deponent is affiliated, unless the court finds that the one subject to
the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other circumstances
make the imposition of the sanction unjust.
(2) On motion
of any other party who, in person or by attorney, attended at the time and
place specified in the deposition notice in the expectation that the deponent's
testimony would be taken, the court shall impose a monetary sanction under
Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010) in favor of that party and against
the deponent or the party with whom the deponent is affiliated, unless the
court finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial
justification or that other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction
unjust. 
            Further, CCP § 2023.030 authorizes
the court to impose a monetary sanction, issue sanction, evidence sanction, or
terminating sanction against any party who engages in conduct that is misuse of
discovery. (Id., § 2023.030(a)-(d).) Misuses of the discovery process
include failing to respond or to submit to an authorized method of discovery,
and failing to confer in person, by telephone, or by letter with an opposing
party or attorney in a reasonable and good faith attempt to resolve informally
any dispute concerning discovery, if the section governing a particular
discovery motion requires the filing of a declaration stating facts showing
that an attempt at informal resolution has been made. (CCP § 2023.010(d), (i).)
                    
III.         
ANALYSIS
The Court only addresses the issue of sanctions as the request to
compel the deposition is moot based on the July 31, 2024 stipulation and order.
Plaintiff submits the Declaration of Marc Appell in support of his motion.
Appell attests that he served a Notice of Deposition on November 7, 2023, and on
December 14, 2023, defense counsel Ms. Flowers advised that she was not
available for Defendant’s deposition on December 19, 2023. She requested a new
date after the first week of January. Appell agreed to reschedule the
deposition on January 10 provided that verified responses to written discovery were
received without objection. (Appell Decl., ¶¶ 2, 5.) On December 18, 2023, Ms.
Flowers advised Appell that Defendant was diagnosed with mild cognitive
impairment. She then requested that Defendant not be deposed because this case
is just a “value dispute.”  She also
requested an extension to respond to discovery until January 12. Appell agreed
to the extension but said that objections were most likely waived. (Appell
Decl., ¶ 6.) 
On January 10, 2024, Ms. Flowers advised Appell that Defendant’s
condition had deteriorated, and she most likely would not be able to sign
verifications. She was determining if Defendant’s daughter could obtain power
of attorney to sign on her behalf. (Appell Decl., ¶ 7.) After settlement
negotiations and discovery disputes regarding other outstanding written
discovery, Plaintiff served a new Notice of Deposition of Defendant on February
29, 2024. (Appell Decl., ¶¶ 10-19.) Defendant served an objection to the
Deposition on March 5, 2024. The objection was based on unavailability and that
Defendant is “incapacitated and too ill to testify.” (Appell Decl., ¶ 20.)
Appell immediately emailed Ms. Flowers and stated that the objection was not
proper. Plaintiff’s argument is that Defendant cannot dispute liability based
on statements attributable to Plaintiff or Defendant yet lack capacity to be
deposed. The email requested an immediate meet and confer or Plaintiff would
file a motion to compel. (Appell Decl., ¶ 21.) Appell received an auto reply
that Ms. Flowers was on leave, so he had the email forwarded to Ms. Flowers’
supervisor. Appell subsequently received an email from Scott Stratman saying
that he would review the file and follow up with him. Mr. Stratman then
requested a phone conference on March 8, 2024. (Appell Decl., ¶ 22.) Appell spoke
with Mr. Stratman on March 8, 2024. Appell agreed to waive Defendant’s
deposition provided Defendant agrees not to testify at trial, and not to
dispute liability, injuries, or damages based on anything Defendant said, or
Plaintiff allegedly said to Defendant at the scene. Mr. Stratman said he
understood and would get back to him. (Appell Decl., ¶ 23.) 
On March 15, 2024, Appell sent Mr. Stratman an email following up
and asked him to please get back to him ASAP or he would have to file a motion,
to which no response was received. (Appell Decl., ¶ 24.) On March 19, 2024, Appell
again sent Mr. Stratman an email following up. He requested a response by March
20, 2024, or Plaintiff would file the appropriate motion. (Appell Decl., ¶ 24.)
No response was received as of the filing date of the motion on March 25, 2024.
(Appell Decl., ¶ 25.)
In opposition, Defendant provides no explanation for the lack of
responses after counsel attempted to confer regarding the second deposition and
Defendant’s incapacity. Plaintiff’s counsel also warned that a motion to compel
would be brought, and yet no response was provided. 
Based on the lack of responsiveness regarding the deposition of
Defendant and her incapacity such that a motion to compel should not be filed,
the Court finds that the conduct of Defendant is a misuse of the discovery
process. Accordingly, sanctions are warranted as the conduct necessitated
motion practice. Plaintiff requests sanctions in the amount of $3,318.91 based
on 5 hours to prepare the motion, review the opposition and reply, and appear
at the hearing, at the hourly rate of $650, plus a $68.91 filing fee. (Appell
Decl., ¶¶ 28-29.) The Court finds this amount reasonable and awards the full
amount requested. 
                    
IV.         
CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
The Court finds the motion MOOT and imposes sanctions in the total amount of $3,318.91 against
Defendant and counsel of record.
Moving Party is ordered to provide notice of this ruling.
 
  Dated: September 12, 2024 JARED D. MOSES JUDGE OF THE SUPERIOR COURT
 
 