  Case Number:  23AHCV01872    Hearing Date:   September 12, 2024    Dept:  P [TENTATIVE] MOTION TO  COMPEL FURTHER RESPONSES TO SPECIAL INTERROGATORIES (SET ONE)I.        INTRODUCTION      Plaintiff Melissa Gutholm  (plaintiff) moves for an order compelling further responses to special  interrogatories, set one, served upon defendant the Young Men’s Christian  Association of West San Gabriel Valley (defendant.) Plaintiff does not seek  sanctions.    III.     LEGAL  STANDARD   In  California, discovery statutes “must be construed liberally in favor of  disclosure unless the request is clearly improper.” (Williams v. Superior Court  (2017) 3 Cal.5th 531, 541.) “Under the discovery statutes, information is  discoverable if it is unprivileged and is either relevant to the subject matter  of the action or reasonably calculated to reveal admissible evidence.” (John B.  v. Superior Court (2006) 38 Cal.4th 1177, 1186.) “Discovery may relate to the  claim or defense of the party seeking discovery or of any other party to the  action.” (Ibid.) “The court shall limit discovery if it determines that the  burden, expense, or intrusiveness of that discovery clearly outweighs the  likelihood that the information sought will lead to the discovery of admissible  evidence. The court may make this determination pursuant to a motion for  protective order by a party or other affected person.” (Code Civ. Proc., §  2017.020, subd. (a).)   In  responding to an interrogatory, a party shall respond in one of the following  ways: providing an answer (1) containing the information sought to be  discovery, (2) exercising the party’s option to produce writings, or (2)  objecting to the particular interrogatory. On receipt of a response, the  demanding party may move for an order compelling further responses to the  interrogatories if the demanding party deems any of the following apply: (1) an  answer is evasive or incomplete, (2) an exercise of the option to produce  documents is unwarranted or inadequate, or (3) the objection is without merit  or too general. (Code Civ. Proc., §2030.300,  subd. (c).) “If the responding party does not have personal knowledge  sufficient to respond fully to an interrogatory, that party shall so state, but  shall make a reasonable and good faith effort to obtain the information by  inquiry to other natural persons or organizations, except where the information  is equally available to the propounding party.” (Code Civ. Proc., §2030.220, subd. (c).)  IV.     ANALYSIS   A.     Meet and Confer “The Discovery Act requires that, prior to the initiation of a motion to  compel, the moving party declare that he or she has made a serious attempt to  obtain an informal resolution of each issue.” (Stewart v. Colonial Western  Agency, Inc. (2001) 87 Cal.App.4th 1006, 1016.) “A meet and confer declaration  in support of a motion shall state facts showing a reasonable and good faith  attempt at an informal resolution of each issue presented by the motion.” (Code  Civ. Proc. § 2016.040.)   The court finds the meet and confer  requirement has been met. Plaintiff’s counsel, Adam Kargman, declares that he  communicated with counsel on several occasions and as a result of those  communications defendant supplemented their responses once. Counsel does not  declare the parties communicated any further after the supplemental responses. Nevertheless,  the court finds the initial meetings sufficient to support the parties have met  and conferred.    B.    Compliance  of Responses The special interrogatories at  issue are numbers 1, 2, 10, 18-26, 31-42, and 50-56.   SROG Nos. 1, 2: Plaintiff requested  the dates (month, day, year) perpetrator worked and/or was employed for Defendant.  Defendant provided the year. To the extent Defendant does not know any further  information about the dates it should so state. (Code  Civ. Proc., §2030.220,  subd. (c).) The motion is granted.    SROG Nos. 10: Plaintiff requested Defendant  “IDENTIFY” (e.g., contact information) the perpetrator’s supervisor. Defendant  responded it may have been “Mike Spain” with no further information. To the  extent Defendant has no ability to “IDENTIFY” Mike Spain in the manner requested  by plaintiff it should so state. (Code Civ. Proc., §2030.220, subd. (c).) The motion is  granted.    SROG No. 19: Plaintiff requested  the dates Plaintiff attended camp, but Defendant only provided the year. To the  extent Defendant does not know any further information about the dates it  should so state. (Code Civ. Proc., §2030.220, subd. (c).) The motion is  granted.               SROG Nos. 18, 20, 21, 22, 23, 40,  41: Plaintiff requested Defendant “IDENTIFY” individuals who with knowledge as  to different aspects of the case. Defendant responded with names but without  contact information or that the information was unknown.  To the extent defendant lacks further  information and conducted a reasonable good faith search, it should so state.  (Code Civ. Proc., §2030.220,  subd. (c).) The motion is granted.   SROG No. 24: Plaintiff requested  information regarding the layout of the camp. Defendant responded with a  description which identifies certain land features and appears to refer to a document  produced which may assist plaintiff. The court’s review reveals that defendant  has not identified the document with any specificity and the effort to  incorporate said document is thus inadequate. Defendant shall identify with specificity  the document it is referring to.  The  motion is granted.    SROGS Nos. 31-37, 39: Plaintiff has  submitted contention interrogatories wherein she asks for defendant to provide  more information including whether they contend something, the facts supporting  that contention, identifying individuals who support the contention,  identifying documents which support the contention. Defendant provides  objection only responses. This is patently insufficient. The interrogatories  are clear and the objections (expert opinion, legal conclusion, speculation  etc.) are not grounds to withhold discoverable information. Defendant does not  assert that any of the information sought is privileged or work product. The  motion is granted.    SROG Nos. 38: Plaintiff request  information about defendant’s conduct in 1981. Defendant states that  information is unknown. To the extent defendant conducted a reasonable good  faith search, it must so state. (Code Civ. Proc., §2030.220, subd. (c).) The motion is  granted.   SROG No. 42: Plaintiff requests  information about the duties of a lifeguard in 1981. Defendant responded that  it lacks documents from that period and thus lacks information to provide any  detail beyond that it includes safety of other in or around water. This is  sufficiently compliant as it includes information and the reason why no further  information can be provided. (Code Civ. Proc., §2030.220, subd. (c).) The motion is  denied.    SROG Nos. 50-53: Plaintiff has  submitted contention interrogatories to which Defendant responded “unknown”.  However, a contention interrogatory pertains to the Defendant’s present  position on an issue. Defendant has provided an answer which has no bearing on  the question, i.e., it lacks information to know its own position. This is  insufficient. The motion is granted.    SROG Nos. 54-56: Plaintiff request  information about defendant’s policies in 1981. Functionally, Defendant  objected entirely on the grounds that the question was overbroad or called for  speculation. The interrogatories are clear and the objections are not grounds  to withhold discoverable information. Defendant does not assert that any of the  information sought is privileged or work product. The motion is granted.    Apart from SROGS 31-37, and 39  (discussed therein), as Defendant responded to each of the requests at issue  notwithstanding the objection. Accordingly, the court does not address the  propriety of those objections.    V.      CONCLUSION  AND ORDER  The motion is GRANTED in part. The  motion to compel further responses to special interrogatory number 42 is DENIED.  In all other respects the motion is GRANTED. Plaintiff to give notice of this ruling.Dated: September 12, 2024 JARED D. MOSES JUDGE OF THE SUPERIOR COURT[TENTATIVE]MOTION TO COMPEL FURTHER RESPONSES TO
FORM INTERROGATORIES (SET ONE) I.        INTRODUCTION          Plaintiff Melissa Gutholm
(plaintiff) moves for an order compelling further responses to form interrogatories,
set one, served upon defendant the Young Men’s Christian Association of West
San Gabriel Valley (defendant.) Plaintiff does not seek sanctions.   III.     LEGAL
STANDARD In
California, discovery statutes “must be construed liberally in favor of
disclosure unless the request is clearly improper.” (Williams v. Superior Court
(2017) 3 Cal.5th 531, 541.) “Under the discovery statutes, information is
discoverable if it is unprivileged and is either relevant to the subject matter
of the action or reasonably calculated to reveal admissible evidence.” (John B.
v. Superior Court (2006) 38 Cal.4th 1177, 1186.) “Discovery may relate to the
claim or defense of the party seeking discovery or of any other party to the
action.” (Ibid.) “The court shall limit discovery if it determines that the
burden, expense, or intrusiveness of that discovery clearly outweighs the
likelihood that the information sought will lead to the discovery of admissible
evidence. The court may make this determination pursuant to a motion for
protective order by a party or other affected person.” (Code Civ. Proc., §
2017.020, subd. (a).) In
responding to an interrogatory, a party shall respond in one of the following
ways: providing an answer (1) containing the information sought to be
discovery, (2) exercising the party’s option to produce writings, or (2)
objecting to the particular interrogatory. On receipt of a response, the
demanding party may move for an order compelling further responses to the
interrogatories if the demanding party deems any of the following apply: (1) an
answer is evasive or incomplete, (2) an exercise of the option to produce
documents is unwarranted or inadequate, or (3) the objection is without merit
or too general. (Code Civ. Proc., §2030.300,
subd. (c).) “If the responding party does not have personal knowledge
sufficient to respond fully to an interrogatory, that party shall so state, but
shall make a reasonable and good faith effort to obtain the information by
inquiry to other natural persons or organizations, except where the information
is equally available to the propounding party.” (Code Civ. Proc., §2030.220, subd. (c).) IV.     ANALYSIS A.   
Meet and Confer“The Discovery Act requires that, prior to the initiation of a motion to
compel, the moving party declare that he or she has made a serious attempt to
obtain an informal resolution of each issue.” (Stewart v. Colonial Western
Agency, Inc. (2001) 87 Cal.App.4th 1006, 1016.) “A meet and confer declaration
in support of a motion shall state facts showing a reasonable and good faith
attempt at an informal resolution of each issue presented by the motion.” (Code
Civ. Proc. § 2016.040.) The court finds the meet and confer
requirement has been met. Plaintiff’s counsel, Adam Kargman, declares that he
communicated with counsel on several occasions and as a result of those
communications defendant supplemented their responses once. Counsel does not
declare the parties communicated any further after the supplemental responses. Nevertheless,
the court finds the initial meetings sufficient to support the parties have met
and conferred.  B.    Compliance
of ResponsesThe special interrogatories at
issue are numbers 12.1, 15.1, 16.1, 16.2 and 17.1 FROG No. 12.1: Plaintiff asks for identifying
information for witness. Defendant provided witness names with no further
information. To the extent defendant has no ability to provide contacting
information in the manner requested by plaintiff it should so state.
(Code Civ. Proc., §2030.220,
subd. (c).) The motion is granted.  FROG No. 15.1: Plaintiff asks for defendant
to state all facts, persons, and identifying documents supporting each denial
of a material allegations and each special and affirmative defense. Defendant
provides objection only responses. This is patently insufficient. Defendant
asserts that the information sought is privileged or work product. However, defendant
does not clarify whether every single fact, person and identifying information
falls within the privilege. To suggest that all this information would be
privileged is a dubious argument claim at best. To the extent there is some
information which is unprivileged, defendant is obligated to answer. (Code Civ.
Proc., § 2030.240) The other asserted objections are not grounds to deny
discovery, e.g., discovery is incomplete. The motion is granted.  FROG No. 16.1: Plaintiff has
submitted contention interrogatories wherein she asks for defendant to provide
more information about any other person defendant claims is responsible.
Defendant provided another person, the perpetrator, but does not state all
facts upon which it bases its contention. Specifically, defendant refers to
information “told to it in 2022.” It is unclear if this is reference to a
document, or what information defendant was told. The response is insufficient
because the foundational facts which defendant is relying on are not included.
The motion is granted.   FROG No. 16.2: Plaintiff has
submitted contention interrogatories wherein she ask for defendant to provide
more information about whether it contends plaintiff was not injured and the
supporting facts, persons and documents. Defendant responded that it lacked
information about plaintiff’s injuries.  Defendant
has not answered the first question regarding whether it contends plaintiff was
not injured. The motion is granted. FROG No. 17.1: Plaintiff requests
further explanation on any request for admission including the facts, persons,
and documents supporting that explanation. With respect to part (b) which
requests all facts upon which you based your response, defendant responded, “Please
see applicable objection and/or explanation in Request for Admissions
responses, which are self-explanatory and legally sufficient.” However, the
only proper response to a request for admission is to admit or deny the
admission and/or object to the request. (Code Civ. Proc., §2033.210.) There is
no basis to explain the request for admission, thus the existence of Form
Interrogatory No. 17.1. To the extent defendant is relying on certain facts, it
must respond with those facts to properly answer the interrogatory. (Code Civ.
Proc., §2030.210, subd (a).) The motion is granted.  V.      CONCLUSION
AND ORDER The motion is GRANTED.  Defendant to provide code complaint responses
without objections within 30 days of today.Plaintiff to give notice of this ruling.Dated: September 12, 2024   JARED D. MOSES     JUDGE OF THE SUPERIOR COURT   