 Case Number:  23TRCV01583    Hearing Date:   May 6, 2024    Dept:  B Superior Court of CaliforniaCounty of Los AngelesSouthwest DistrictTorrance Dept. B MALIYA SAANI,    Plaintiff, Case No.:  23TRCV01583 vs.  [Tentative] RULING  BRIAN D. BARNES,   Defendant.       Hearing Date:                         May 6, 2024 Moving Parties:                      Cross-complainant Bryan BarnesResponding Party:                  Cross-defendant Maliya SaaniMotion for Order Granting Leave to Amend Cross-Complaint             The court considered the moving, opposition, and reply papers.RULING            This action was initiated in May 2023.  Defendant Barnes appeared in late September 2023.  What should the Court do when two counsel, purporting to represent the same individual defendant both file cross-complaints on behalf of that one defendant?  What should the Court do when one of those defendant’s attorneys (after attempting in January 2024 to obtain the consent of opposing counsel) then files a motion seeking leave to amend the cross-complaint and asserts that the proposed amended cross-complaint essentially combines both cross-complaints into one proposed cross-complaint.  It is suggested that the proposed cross-complaint adds new claims and parties.  And what should the Court do when the trial is set for October 15, 2024.            The Court should grant the motion, clean up the status of the pleadings, and move this case forward.  The motion for leave to amend is GRANTED.  Cross-complainant Bryan Barnes is ordered to file his SACC within five days.  Defense counsel are ordered to resolve the issue as to which defense counsel is representing Barnes, one or both.  Only one cross complaint for Barnes shall be operative, and it shall include all claims asserted by Barnes.BACKGROUND            On May 19, 2023, plaintiff Maliya Saani filed a complaint against Bryan D. Barnes for motor vehicle negligence and negligence based on an incident that occurred on April 6, 2023, on the 405 freeway, Hawthorne.  Plaintiff alleges that she was “rear ended with great force” by defendant, which caused plaintiff to rear end another vehicle and consequently a fourth vehicle was also struck.            On September 25, 2023, defendant Barnes (represented by defense counsel Ryan Naim at Gould & Jefferson) filed a cross-complaint against plaintiff for apportionment of fault, declaratory relief, motor vehicle negligence, and negligence.            On September 26, 2023, defendant Barnes (represented by defense counsel Mary Fersch at Daniels, Fine, Israel, Schonbuch & Lebovits) filed a second cross-complaint against plaintiff for equitable indemnity, implied indemnity, comparative fault, and declaratory relief.             On February 29, 2024, defendant and cross-complainant Barnes filed amendments (and amended amendments) to cross-complaint designating The Discovery Recovery Community LLC as Doe 1 and John Z. Petti as Doe 2.            On April 8, 2024, the court granted and deemed the herein case related to case number 24TRCV00291. LEGAL AUTHORITYCCP § 473(a)(1) provides, in relevant part:  “The court may, in furtherance of justice, and on any terms as may be proper, allow a party to amend any pleading or proceeding by adding or striking out the name of any party, or by correcting a mistake in the name of a party, or a mistake in any other respect; and may, upon like terms, enlarge the time for answer or demurrer.  The court may likewise, in its discretion, after notice to the adverse party, allow, upon any terms as may be just, an amendment to any pleading or proceeding in other particulars; and may upon like terms allow an answer to be made after the time limited by this code.” “This discretion should be exercised liberally in favor of amendments, for judicial policy favors resolution of all disputed matters in the same lawsuit.”  Kittredge Sports Co. v. Superior Court (1989) 213 Cal. App. 3d 1045, 1047.Under CRC Rule 3.1324(a), a motion to amend a pleading shall (1) include a copy of the proposed amendment or amended pleading, which must be serially numbered to differentiate it from previous pleadings or amendments; (2) state what allegations in the previous pleading are proposed to be deleted, if any, and where, by page, paragraph and line number, the deleted allegations are located; and (3) state what allegations are proposed to be added to the previous pleading, if any, and where, by page, paragraph, and line number, the additional allegations are located.Under CRC Rule 3.1324(b), a separate declaration must accompany the motion and must specify (1) the effect of the amendment; (2) why the amendment is necessary and proper; (3) when the facts giving rise to the amended allegations were discovered; and (4) the reasons why the request for amendment was not made earlier.Even if a good amendment is proposed in proper form, a long, unwarranted and unexcused delay in presenting it may be a good reason for denial.  In most cases, the factors for timeliness are:  (1) lack of diligence in discovering the facts or in offering the amendment after knowledge of them; and (2) the effect of the delay on the adverse party.  If the party seeking the amendment has been dilatory, and the delay has prejudiced the opposing party, the judge has discretion to deny leave to amend.  Hirsa v. Superior Court (1981) 118 Cal. App. 3d 486, 490.  Prejudice exists where the amendment would require delaying the trial, resulting in loss of critical evidence, or added costs of preparation such as an increased burden of discovery.  Magpali v. Farmers Group, Inc. (1996) 48 Cal. App. 4th 471, 486-488.DISCUSSION            Defendant and cross-complainant Bryan Barnes (filed by counsel Mary Fersch at Daniels, Fine [name changed to Schonbuch Hallissy LLP]) requests leave to file an amended cross-complaint to combine the two currently-filed cross-complaints, one filed by Barnes’ personal injury attorney at Gold & Jefferson LLP and one filed by Barnes’ defense attorneys at Daniels, Fine, into a “clearer singular Cross-Complaint.”              Cross-complainant Barnes asserts that no new causes of action or damages claims have been added, and that the owners of plaintiff’s vehicle, The District Recovery Community, LLC and John Z. Petti, have been added as parties and served.  Cross-complainant argues that the proposed amendment is necessary to avoid any argument that the later-filed cross complaint for equitable indemnity is improper due to alleged “claim splitting.”  Barnes asserts that defense counsel engaged in good faith efforts to combine the cross-complaints and to add the Doe parties but to no avail.            In opposition, plaintiff argues that the motion for leave to amend was not timely made and that cross-complainant has been dilatory, noting that defense counsel had circulated a copy of the proposed amendment in January 2024, but waited to make the motion until after a trial date was set.  Plaintiff also argues that the proposed amendment adding negligence will unduly prejudice plaintiff.  Plaintiff notes that the cross-complaint filed on September 25, 2023 along with the Doe amendments were never served on plaintiff.   (The Court would note that moving party claims to have asked that Plaintiff stipulate in January 2024 to allow the amendment, which would have been about 10 months prior to the trial date, thereby eliminated the claimed delay that Plaintiff now points to.  Plaintiff’s suggestion of undue delay is the product of its actions in part.)            In reply, cross-complainant argues that the motion was timely filed and that there is no prejudice to plaintiff/cross-defendant because the statute of limitations does not run until April 2025, and that plaintiff has been aware of cross-complainant’s affirmative negligence and equitable indemnity claims since he appeared in September 2023.            The Court rules as follows:  The Court finds that cross-complainant complied with CRC Rule 3.1324.  The Court notes that there is no authority that allows for two cross-complaints to be operative at the same time.  While a party may have as many attorneys representing the party as they desire, they still must file one operative pleading for the one party.  The filing of the cross-complaint on September 26, 2023 “superseded” the one filed on September 25, 2023, and is the operative pleading.  There is no prejudice to Plaintiff caused by the fact that Plaintiff’s refusal to stipulated to the filing of the amended cross-complaint in mid-January has resulted in this matter not being resolved by the Court until early May.In any event, in light of the liberal policy allowing for amendment, the motion is GRANTED to combine the cross-complaints, including adding causes of action based on negligence to the operative pleading.The Court notes that it is unclear which counsel is representing defendant and cross-complainant, since both purported to file a cross complain tin the name of the singular cross-complaint.  The Court orders defense counsel/ cross-complainant counsel to address this issue.  Again, the party may have multiple counsel, but they must not create confusion regarding the operative pleadings of that singular party. ORDER            The motion is GRANTED.            Cross-complainant Barnes is ordered to file its SACC within five days.            Defense counsel are ordered to take appropriate action to clarify between themselves and to the court, if needed, which counsel is acting in which capacity.Cross-complainant is ordered to give notice of the ruling.