  Case Number:  21TRCV00469    Hearing Date:   May 6, 2024    Dept:  B Superior Court of CaliforniaCounty of Los AngelesSouthwest DistrictTorrance Dept. B RST INVESTMENTS GROUP, LLC,    Plaintiff, Case No.:  21TRCV00469 vs.  [Tentative] RULING  JOCELYN YOUNG,   Defendant.       Hearing Date:                         May 6, 2024 Moving Parties:                      Defendant Jocelyn YoungResponding Party:                  Plaintiff RST Investments Group, LLCMotion to Set Aside Default and Default Judgment             The court considered the moving, opposition, and reply papers.RULING            The motion is DENIED.BACKGROUND            On June 28, 2021, plaintiff RST Investments Group, LLC filed a complaint against Jocelyn Young for (1) specific performance, (2) breach of contract, and (3) declaratory relief.  Plaintiff alleges that on May 5, 2021, the parties entered into a Residential Purchase Agreement whereby plaintiff agreed to purchase and defendant agreed to sell the property located at 2302 W. 115th Street, Hawthorne, for $550,000.  The pertinent terms were “all-cash” and “as-is” and a 14-day escrow.  On May 11, 2021, escrow opened.  Pursuant to the terms of the agreement, plaintiff was to initially deposit $5,000 into escrow after escrow opened; however, defendant failed and refused and continues to fail and refuse to sign escrow instructions and advised the broker that she had no intention of continuing on with the sale, thereby breaching the executed Residential Purchase Agreement.            On September 13, 2021, a default was entered against defendant.            On October 13, 2022, a default prove up hearing was held.  The court ordered judgment entered for plaintiff and against defendant for damages of $95,000, attorney fees of $10,000, interest of $12,987.67, costs of $517, and other of $7,150, for a total of $125,654.67.  The court also ordered the Court Clerk to execute all documents necessary to complete the sale, including the grant deed.  Defendant was ordered to turn over the premises upon completion of escrow.            On October 13, 2022, a default judgment was entered.            On February 24, 2023, the court granted plaintiff’s ex parte for order allowing court clerk to execute deed in lieu of foreclosure after defendant’s default on the underlying mortgage.            On March 23, 2023, an amended judgment was entered.            On July 11, 2023, the court granted plaintiff’s ex parte to amend order to add legal description for property.            On July 27, 2023, the court granted plaintiff’s ex parte to amend the July 11, 2023 order to specify the name of defendant and the documents to be executed by the court clerk.LEGAL AUTHORITY“[U]nder subdivision (d) of Code of Civil Procedure section 473, the court may set aside orders and judgments that are ‘void,’ including orders and judgments void for want of fundamental jurisdiction or personal jurisdiction.”  Bae v. T.D. Service Co. of Arizona (2016) 245 Cal. App. 4th 89, 97 (citations omitted).             “Where a party moves under section 473(d) to set aside ‘a judgment that, though valid on its face, is void for lack of proper service, the courts have adopted by analogy the statutory period for relief from a default judgment’ provided by section 473.5, that is, the two-year outer limit.”  Trackman v. Kenney (2010) 187 Cal. App. 4th 175, 180 (citations omitted).               “[T]he policy of the law is to have every litigated case tried upon its merits, and it looks with disfavor upon a party, who, regardless of the merits of the case, attempts to take advantage of the mistake, surprise, inadvertence, or neglect of his adversary.”  Fasuyi v. Permatex, Inc. (2008) 167 Cal. App. 4th 681, 697 (citations and internal quotations omitted).CCP § 473.5(a) states, in relevant part:  “When service of a summons has not resulted in actual notice to a party in time to defend the action and a default or default judgment has been entered against him or her in the action, he or she may serve and file a notice of motion to set aside the default or default judgment and for leave to defend the action. The notice of motion shall be served and filed within a reasonable time, but in no event exceeding the earlier of:  (i) two years after entry of a default judgment against him or her; or (ii) 180 days after service on him or her of a written notice that the default or default judgment has been entered.”CCP §473.5(b) requires that “a notice of motion to set aside a default or default judgment and for leave to defend the action shall designate as the time for making the motion a date prescribed by subdivision (b) of Section 1005, and it shall be accompanied by an affidavit showing under oath that the party’s lack of actual notice in time to defend the action was not caused by his or her avoidance of service or inexcusable neglect.  The party shall serve and file with the notice a copy of the answer, motion, or other pleading proposed to be filed in the action.”CCP §473.5(c) allows “upon a finding by the court that the motion was made within the period permitted by subdivision (a) and that his or her lack of actual notice in time to defend the action was not caused by his or her avoidance of service or inexcusable neglect, it may set aside the default or default judgment on whatever terms as may be just and allow the party to defend the action.”DISCUSSION            Defendant Jocelyn Young requests that the court set aside the default and default judgment, pursuant to CCP §§415.20 and 473.5, and 473(d), and under extrinsic fraud and/or mistake.            The proof of service filed on July 29, 2021 indicates that defendant was substitute served on July 26, 2021 at 1:15 p.m. on “Joseph Young Co-Occupant/Brother” and that the summons and complaint were thereafter mailed.              A default was entered against defendant on September 13, 2021, and a default judgment was entered against defendant after a prove-up on October 13, 2022.            Defendant states in her declaration that the proof of service is “inaccurate.”  She acknowledges that her brother was visiting when she was purportedly served but that her brother was not a co-occupant at that time and did not live with her at the time of the alleged service, and that her brother had never given her any court documents and did not tell her about “any mail he received from someone coming to my home.”  She states that “[t]he issue with Joseph was that due to his severe condition and alcoholism, he was often disoriented and suffered mental confusion because he was consistently intoxicated, in pain, taking muscle relaxers, on pain medications, and other related heart medication.”  She asserts that when Joseph visited her for a few days the week of July 26, 2021, she believes that he took her mail and disposed of it, and that he did not know or understand he was receiving court documents.  She also states that her brother passed away on November 11, 2021, and that she “grieved for years” and “I was not in a good position.”  She further states that she “never had a copy of the Complaint and after everything that was going on, I was so confused and didn’t understand what was happening and believed nothing could be done.  [James] Vega even bought out the note for the Subject Property without my knowledge and even when I had never been given notice of any default.  The whole time I thought he was trying to kick me out of my home because he purchased the loan on my home which did not make any sense.  I eventually found some courage and started calling law firms to see if anyone could help me understand what was going on.  I then learned about how this lawsuit was filed and the false claims Plaintiff was making against me.”              Defendant also refers to an unlawful detainer action against her in case no. 23IWUD01792, which she answered on August 24, 2023.  In that case, on March 4, 2024, she entered into a stipulation and order to vacate the premises by April 4, 2024.            In opposition, plaintiff argues that defendant was properly sub-served at her residence after numerous attempts and after she ignored numerous attempts to mediate and arbitrate her default of the Residential Sales Agreement, which she “executed because she was in default on her Note and Deed of Trust and was facing foreclosure.”  Plaintiff also contends that the motion is procedurally defective because she failed to file and serve a proposed responsive pleading, as required under CCP §473.5.  Plaintiff asserts that defendant had actual knowledge of the lawsuit.  Plaintiff also points to a “companion case” in San Bernardino Superior Court, where defendant defaulted, and her wages are being garnished.            In reply, defendant contends that the failure to provide a responsive pleading is “clearly an oversight.”  Defendant further asserts that she did not receive notice of the pending action or any emails regarding mediation or arbitration because the emails were sent to her government work email “which directs unfamiliar emails to a spam folder.”             The Court rules as follows:  The Court finds that the motion is untimely filed as she failed to file it “within a reasonable time.”  Further, the default was entered more than two years prior to her filing the herein motion.  Defendant was served with at least the following documents by mail:  notice of pending action on July 1, 2021, notice of the request for entry of default on September 13, 2021, and order on plaintiff’s ex parte application for order to allow court clerk to execute deed in lieu of foreclosure after defendant’s default on underlying mortgage.  Further, defendant acknowledges her wages have been garnished (from a companion case) and she was served with an unlawful detainer in August 2023.  Her factual assertions of lack of knowledge of the suit long ago are rejected by the Court as not credible.            The motion is thus DENIED.            ORDER            The motion is DENIED.            Plaintiff is ordered to give notice of ruling.