 Case Number:  24STCV02455    Hearing Date:   October 3, 2024    Dept:  40 Superior
Court of California
County
of Los Angeles
Department 40
 



IVAN D. RODRIGUEZ,
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
EVARISTO RODRIGUEZ GONZALEZ; LENEICE WHITE; DOES 1 through 100,
                        Defendants.
 


 Case No.:          24STCV02455
 Hearing Date:   October
  3, 2024
 Trial Date:        None
  Set 
 [TENTATIVE] RULING RE:
Motion to Set
  Aside Default [RES ID # 7096]



 
I. Background
A. Pleadings
Plaintiff Ivan Rodriguez (Rodriguez)
sues Defendant Evaristo Rodriguez Gonzalez (Gonzalez), Leneice White, and Does
1 through 100 pursuant to a January 31, 2024, Complaint alleging causes of
action for: (1) Quiet Title, (2) Cancellation of Instrument, (3) Declaratory
Relief, (4) Negligence, and (5) Payment on Bond.
Rodriguez owns real property
located at 3280 Folsom Street, Los Angeles, California 90063 which he leased to
Defendant Gonzalez. On or around December 28, 2023, Rodriguez listed the
property for sale. On or around January 17, 2024, the real estate listing agent
for the property conducted a title search and discovered a grant deed recorded
on December 29, 2023, which grants Gonzalez a 50% interest in the property as
joint tenants with Rodriguez. Rodriguez alleges that Gonzalez forged his
signature on the grant deed and that he did not grant Gonzalez any ownership
interest in the property. 
B. Relevant Procedural History
Gonzalez was served with the
Complaint on February 3, 2024. He failed to timely respond to the Complaint,
prompting Rodriguez to seek entry of default against Gonzalez. The Court
entered default on March 6, 2024. 
On April 10, 2024, the parties
signed a joint stipulation to set aside the default to allow Gonzalez ten days
to file responsive pleadings. Gonzalez filed a demurrer on April 19, 2024. 
On July 12, 2024, the Court
overruled the demurrer and ordered Gonzalez to file an answer within 14 days. 
No answer was filed, once again
prompting Rodriguez to seek entry of default. The Court entered default against
Gonzalez on July 29, 2024. 
C. Motion Before the Court
On September 9, 2024, Gonzalez
filed the instant motion to set aside the default on the grounds that “he reasonably
believed that Attorney Monica Graham would file an Answer for him as
technically she was his Attorney of Record until July 29, 2024, the date the
Court granted her Order to be relieved as his Attorney of Record.”  (Mot. p. 4:16-20.)
On September 20, 2024, Rodriguez
opposed the motion on the grounds that Gonzalez has failed to show any
excusable neglect or offer a meritorious defense, and that Gonzalez should be
ordered to pay Rodriguez’s counsel's attorney's fees in the sum of at least
$1,000. 
No reply has been filed. 
Gonzalez’s motion is now before the
Court. 
 
II. Motion
A. Legal Standard
“A motion for relief under section
473 is addressed to the sound discretion of the trial court and an appellate
court will not interfere unless there is a clear showing of an abuse.
[Citation.] The statute is remedial and should be liberally applied to carry
out the policy of permitting trial on the merits, but the moving party has the
burden of showing good cause. [Citations.]” (David v. Thayer (1980) 133
Cal.App.3d 892, 904-905.) 
Section 473 subdivision (b) of the
Code of Civil Procedure provides for both discretionary and mandatory relief
from a judgment, dismissal, and/or order or other proceeding taken against a
party through his or her mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or excusable neglect.
(Code Civ. Proc., § 473, subd. (b) [mandatory relief more narrowly targeted to
defaults, default judgments, and dismissals]; Pagnini v. Union Bank, N.A.
(2018) 28 Cal.App.5th 298, 302.) 
The discretionary provision of
section 473, subdivision (b), states that “[t]he court may, upon any terms as
may be just, relieve a party or his or her legal representative from a
judgment, dismissal, order, or other proceeding taken against him or her
through his or her mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or excusable neglect.”
(Code Civ. Proc., § 473, subd. (b).) Application for this relief shall be
accompanied by a copy of the answer or other pleading proposed to be filed
therein and be made within a reasonable time not exceeding six months, after
the judgment, dismissal, order, or proceeding was taken. (Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 473, subd. (b).) 
Relief is mandatory pursuant to
this statutory section when a proper application for relief is accompanied by a
sworn affidavit from an attorney attesting to his or her mistake, inadvertence,
surprise, or excusable neglect in causing the adverse judgment, dismissal,
order, or proceeding against the defendant.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 473,
subd. (b).) 
B. Analysis
Gonzalez brings this motion on the
grounds that was default was entered against him based on excusable mistake,
inadvertence, surprise, and excusable neglect. This position is supported by
the Declaration of Evaristo Rodriguez Gonzalez: “I did not file an Answer by
July 26, 2024 as I reasonably believed that Attorney Monica Graham would file
an Answer for me as technically she was my Attorney of Record until July 29,
2024, the date the Court granted her Order to be relieved as my Attorney of
Record.”  (Gonzalez Decl. ¶ 3.) Gonzalez
brings this motion well within six months after the default was entered and the
motion is accompanied by a copy of the answer proposed to be filed herein (Mot.,
Ex. 2; Code Civ. Proc., § 473, subd. (b).) 
These grounds are sufficient to
support a finding that Gonzalez’s excusable neglect led to entry of default
against him. 
In opposition, Rodriguez argues
that Gonzalez has not shown excusable neglect because he was represented by counsel
at the time his Answer was due and there is no affidavit of fault from Gonzalez’s
former counsel. Rodriguez also argues that Gonzalez cannot show he has a
meritorious defense because in his proposed answer, Gonzalez does not deny that
the allegedly forged deed is not a forgery. (Opp., pp. 5:20-6:8.) 
Gonzalez does not argue that his
former counsel made a mistake in not filing an answer, but that he mistakenly
assumed his counsel was filing an answer despite that assumption apparently
being incorrect. Given that his counsel had filed a motion to be relieved as
counsel, there is a stronger basis to assert a mistake on this ground. Upon
review of the proposed answer, while Gonzalez does not explicitly state that
the allegedly forged deed is not a forgery, he does not admit that it is a
forgery. Gonzalez claims he is a 50% owner in the property and that a
controversy exists between the parties as to each party’s respective rights in
the property. Considering Gonzalez’s diligence in timely filing the instant
motion and strong policy favoring resolutions on the merits, the motion to set
aside is GRANTED. 
However, Rodriguez is correct in
arguing that he is entitled to compensation for the work performed by his counsel
in securing entry of default against Gonzalez.  (Opp., p.6; see also Code
Civ. Proc., § 473, subd. (c)(1)(A).) 
The Court thus GRANTS the motion to
set aside default against Defendant Evaristo Rodriguez Gonzalez but also AWARDS
Plaintiff Ivan Rodriguez with $1,000.00 in compensation for reasonable
attorney’s fees and costs related to Rodriguez’s counsel work in entering
default against Defendant Gonzalez.
III. Conclusion
Defendant Evaristo Rodriguez Gonzalez’s Motion to Set Aside Default is GRANTED because the entry of
default against him resulted from his excusable neglect in failing to realize
that his attorney would not be filing an answer to the Complaint for this
action.  
               The
Entry of Default entered by the Clerk against Defendant Evaristo
Rodriguez Gonzalez on July 29, 2024, is VACATED. 
               Defendant
Evaristo Rodriguez Gonzalez is ORDERED to
remit payment of $1,000.00 to Plaintiff Ivan Rodriguez within fourteen (14) calendar days of notice of entry of
this Order. He is ordered to file his Answer attached
to his Declaration as Exhibit 2 within 5 court days. Failure to timely file the
Answer could result in further default. 