 Case Number:  23STCV28020    Hearing Date:   October 3, 2024    Dept:  40 Superior
Court of California
County
of Los Angeles
Department 40
 



ERIN JOYCE dba ERIN JOYCE LAW, PC, an individual, 
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
DEREK KHANNA, an individual; DOES 1 through 100, inclusive,
                        Defendants.
 


 Case No.:          23STCV28020
 Hearing Date:   October
  3, 2024
 Trial Date:        None
  Set 
 [TENTATIVE] RULING RE:
Plaintiff’s Motion
  for an Order Sealing Limited Portions of the Complaint and First Amended
  Complaint [RES ID # 1353]



 
I. Background
A. Pleadings
Plaintiff Erin Joyce, dba Erin
Joyce Law (Joyce), sues Defendant Derek Khanna (Khanna), and Does 1 through 100
pursuant to a November 15, 2023, Complaint and February 13, 2024, First Amended
Complaint, alleging claims of (1) Breach of Contract, (2) Quantum Meruit, and
(3) Common Count: Services Provided.
The claims arise from allegations
that Khanna retained Joyce as legal counsel pursuant to a legal representation
agreement (the Agreement). The Complaint alleges that Khanna owes Joyce an
outstanding balance of $51,571.00 under the Agreement. 
B. Motion Before the Court
On August 26, 2024, Joyce filed a
motion to seal two sections of the Complaint and First Amended Complaint.  Specifically, Page 1, lines 24-25 and Page 3,
lines 7-12 (Paragraph 12) in both the Complaint and First Amended Complaint. 
On September 16, 2024, Khanna filed
a “motion” (without a reservation number) in support of Joyce’s motion to seal.

On September 19, 2024, Khanna filed
a second, longer “motion” (again, without a separate reservation number) in
support of Joyce’s motion to seal. 
 
II. Motion to Seal
A. Procedural Requirements 
1. Motion to Seal – Moving Papers 
A party requesting that a record be filed under seal must
file a motion or an application for an order sealing the record. The motion or
application must be accompanied by a memorandum and a declaration containing
facts sufficient to justify the sealing.” (Cal. Rules of Court, Rule 2.551,
subd. (b)(1).) 
 Here, Joyce has filed a motion to seal supported by points and
authorities. (Mot. pp. 3-7.)
2. Motion to Seal – Service 
A copy of the motion or application must be served on all
parties that have appeared in the case. Unless the court orders otherwise, any
party that already possesses copies of the records to be placed under seal must
be served with a complete, unredacted version of all papers as well as a
redacted version.” (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 2.551, subd. (b)(2).) 
Here, the motion to seal was served on Khanna on August 26, 2024. (6/26/2024
Proof of Service.) 
3. Motion to Seal – Lodging 
Unless good cause exists, a record to be filed under seal
must be put in an envelope or other appropriate container labeled
‘CONDITIONALLY UNDER SEAL,’ have a cover sheet affixed thereto with an
appropriate caption page stating the envelope contains a motion to file a
record under seal and be lodged in the sealed envelope with the Court. (Cal.
Rules of Court, rule 2.551, subds. (b)(4), (d)(2), (d)(4).) 
 Here, this requirement need not be satisfied because Joyce has
previously filed the Complaint and FAC at issue in the public record. 
4. Motion
to Seal – Redacted and Unredacted Versions 
If necessary to prevent disclosure, any motion to seal and
any supporting documents must be filed in a public redacted version and lodged
in a complete, unredacted version conditionally under seal. The cover of the
redacted version must identify it as “Public-Redacts materials from
conditionally sealed record” while the cover of the unredacted version must
identify it as “May Not Be Examined Without Court Order-Contains material from
conditionally sealed record.” (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 2.551, subd. (b)(5).) 
 Here, because nondisclosure cannot be effected by filing
unredacted copies of documents already in the public record, this requirement
need not be satisfied. 
B. Substantive Discussion 
1. Motion to Seal – Findings 
“The public has a First Amendment right of access to civil
litigation documents filed in court and used at trial or submitted as a basis
for adjudication.” (Savaglio v. Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. (2007) 149
Cal.App.4th 588, 596 (Savaglio), citing NBC Subsidiary (KNBC-TV),
Inc. v. Superior Court (1999) 20 Cal.4th 1178, 1208-1209, fn. 25.) 
Therefore, before a trial court orders a record sealed, it
must hold a hearing and make express findings set forth in California Rules of
Court, rule 2.550, subdivision (d): (1) there exists an overriding interest
that overcomes the right of public access to the record; (2) the overriding
interest supports sealing the record; (3) a substantial probability exists that
the overriding interest will be prejudiced if the record is not sealed; (4) the
proposed sealing is narrowly tailored; and (5) no less restrictive means exist
to achieve the overriding interest. (Savaglio, supra, at p. 596;
Cal. Rules of Court, rule 2.550, subd. (d).) A court’s order allowing documents
to be filed under seal must contain express factual findings establishing these
five factors. (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 2.550, subd. (d).)  
Joyce states that there is an overriding interest that supports
sealing the record because although disclosure of otherwise confidential
information “is permitted in an action by an attorney to collect fees
owed pursuant to Evidence Code section 958, there are in such cases two
important principles that are in conflict, i.e., the attorney’s duty of
confidentiality owed to a client, and the attorney’s right to seek payment for
legal services rendered. That conflict may be reconciled in this case by
permitting the redaction and sealing of specific portions of the complaints
filed.” (Mot. p. 6:14-19.) Joyce asserts that because Khanna has expressed an
objection to the language included in the Complaint and FAC, he will not be
prejudiced by the redaction. (Mot. p. 6: 21-26.)
Further
the “proposed sealing is narrowly tailored to serve the overriding interest, as
the motion only requests the redaction and sealing of information that
Defendant believes could embarrass him.” Joyce states that no less restrictive means exist because Joyce is only
requesting redaction of one paragraph that contains “information that
could potentially embarrass Defendant as a professional. This is the least
restrictive means that achieves both the minimizing of embarrassment to the
Defendant and ensures the Court records remain public.” (Mot. p. 7:9-11.)
In Khanna’s amended “motion” in support of the motion to seal, he emphasizes
that the language at issue constitutes protected client secrets that warrant
redaction. (Mot. in Support, pp. 5-7.) The language at issue pertains to information
about “allegations by the State Bar (due to a false complaint of
Defendant’s former business partner)” that Joyce came to know of during her
representation of Khanna. (Mot. in Support, p. 5:14-15.) Khanna
also notes that the California State Bar’s Special Deputy Trial Counsel
investigated whether the cited language disclosed privileged information, and
asked Joyce to file a motion to seal both complaints. (Mot. in Support, pp. 3:16-4:2.)
Khanna argues that there is an overriding interest in protecting attorney-client
privileged information and that he will suffer “sever reputational and
professional harm” if the complaints remain unredacted (Mot. in Support, p.
14:14-15.) 
Here,
the Court finds that there is an overriding interest in the portions to be
redacted. Detrimental client information learned by a lawyer during
representation must be protected as a client secret. Protecting confidential
attorney-client information is an overriding interest that overcomes the right
of public access to the information. The interest supports redacting the complaints
to this limited extent. There is a substantial probability that Khanna will
suffer ongoing prejudice by not redacting the complaints, the proposed redactions
are narrowly tailored to protecting the confidential attorney-client
information at issue, and no less restrictive means exist to achieve the
overriding interest.
 Thus, Joyce’s motion to seal is GRANTED. 
The following portions of the Complaint and First Amended Complaint
are to be redacted: Complaint, Page 1, lines 24-25 (from “for amounts. .
. charges.”) and Page 3, lines 7-18 (Paragraph 12); First Amended Complaint, Page 1, lines 24-25 and Page 3, lines 7-18
(Paragraph 12). 
The
Plaintiff is ordered to file a redacted version of the Complaint and First
Amended Complaint, redacting those portions only, within five court days, and
the Court will upon receipt of those redacted documents, file them nunc pro
tunc and seal the original filings. 
III. Conclusion
Plaintiff Erin Joyce’s Motion to
Seal Limited Portions of the Complaint and First Amended Complaint is GRANTED. 