  Case Number:  23STCV12948    Hearing Date:   October 3, 2024    Dept:  40 Superior
Court of California
County
of Los Angeles
Department 40
 



WAWANESA GENERAL INSURANCE COMPANY,
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
CHERYL LYN MARTINEZ, an individual; JOYCE ROBLES, an individual;
  and DOES 1 through 30, inclusive,
                        Defendants.
 


 Case No.:          23STCV12948
 Hearing Date:   October
  3, 2024
 Trial Date:        February
  21, 2025
 [TENTATIVE] RULING RE:
Plaintiff’s Motion
  for Summary Judgment, or in the Alternative, Summary Adjudication [RES ID # 0226]
  



 
I. Background
A. Pleadings
Plaintiff Wawanesa General
Insurance Company (Wawanesa) sues Defendants Cheryl Lyn Martinez (Martinez),
Joyce Robles (Robles), (collectively, Defendants), and Does 1 through 30
pursuant to a June 7, 2023, Complaint alleging a single claim for declaratory
relief. 
The claim arises from the following
series of events. On September 5, 2021, Martinez purchased an automobile
insurance policy from Wawanesa. On January 10, 2022, Defendants Martinez and
Robles were involved in a collision while operating the subject vehicle. Defendants
filed a claim with Wawanesa for injuries and damages, which Wawanesa denied.  
On September 15, 2022, Defendants
filed a Petition to Compel Arbitration. On December 8, 2022, the Court granted
Defendants’ petition. The Court notes that on January 13, 2024, Department 53
denied relation of that action (case no. 22STCP03407) to the instant action. 
Wawanesa seeks a declaration of
rights and duties between the parties in relation to insurance coverage
bargained for by Defendants with Wawanesa and pursuant to which Defendants seek
a payout connected to a January 10, 2022, accident involving Defendant Martinez
and an uninsured motorist. Specifically, Wawanesa seeks a judgment declaring
that no rights, duties, or obligations arose, exist, or may in the future arise
or exist under and by virtue of the provisions of the Wawanesa policy and with
respect to the claims for benefits and/or coverage under the Wawanesa policy
made by Defendants and Does 1 through 30, that arose out of the alleged January
10, 2022, accident.
B. Motion Before the Court
On June 24, 2024, Wawanesa filed the
instant motion for summary judgment, or in the alternative, summary
adjudication on the grounds that there are no triable issues of material fact
regarding whether Defendants Martinez and Robles breached either the (1) "Duties
After An Accident or A Loss" condition, or (2) "Fraud and Misrepresentation"
condition of the policy with Wawanesa, thereby eliminating further right to
policy benefits relating to the alleged January 10, 2022 accident. Wawanesa
requests that the Court “declare that Defendants Cheryl Lyn Martinez and Joyce
Robles, and each of them, are not entitled to any benefits or coverage under
the Wawanesa policy issued to Defendant Cheryl Lyn Martinez, relating to or
arising out of the alleged accident of January 10, 2022, including claims for
Uninsured/Underinsured Motorists Coverage and Medical Payments Coverage.” (Mot.
p. 11:11-15.) 
On September 19, 2024, the Defendants
opposed the motion on the grounds that there are genuine issues of material
fact concerning Defendants’ compliance with the insurance policy and Wawanesa’s
handling of the claim. 
On September 26, 2024, Wawanesa submitted
a Further Declaration of counsel Richard Knapp attaching the full auto
insurance policy. The Declaration of Michelle Gonzalez, submitted with the June
24, 2024 motion, inadvertently only attached part of the policy.  
On September 30, 2024, Wawanesa
replied to the motion. 
Wawanesa’s motion is now before the
Court. 
II. Motion
A. Requests for Judicial Notice
Pursuant to Evidence Code section
452, subdivision (d), the Court may take judicial notice of “[r]ecords of (1)
any court of this state or (2) any court of record of the United States or of
any state of the United States”. The court however may not take judicial notice
of the truth of the contents of the documents. (Herrera v. Deutsche Bank
National Trust Co. (2011) 196 Cal.App.4th 1366, 1375.) Documents are only
judicially noticeable to show their existence and what orders were made such
that the truth of the facts and findings within the documents are not
judicially noticeable. (Lockley v. Law Office of Cantrell, Green, Pekich,
Cruz & McCort (2001) 91 Cal.App.4th 875, 885.)  
Per Wawanesa’s request, the Court
takes judicial notice of the following: 
(1)  
(Tentative) Order on Petition to Compel Arbitration
dated December 8, 2022, issued in Martinez v. Wawanesa, Los Angeles
County Superior Court case no. 22STCP03407, adopted as the final Order. (MSJ, Request
for Judicial Notice.) 
(2)  
Notice of Petition and Petition to Compel Arbitration
filed in Martinez v. Wawanesa, Los Angeles County Superior Court case no.
22STCP03407. (Further Request for Judicial Notice.) 
The Court notes that on January 13,
2024, Department 53 denied relation of the present action to the
above-mentioned action, case no. 22STCP03407. 
B. Evidentiary Objections
Opposition Evidentiary Objections:
(1)  
Exhibit 2, Wawanesa Policy: OVERRULED 
(2)  
Exhibit 14, Forensic Report: Not ruled on as not
material to disposition of this motion.  
C. Legal Standard
A motion for summary judgment shall
be granted if all the papers submitted show that there is no triable issue as
to any material fact for trial or that the moving party is entitled to a
judgment as a matter of law. (Code of Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (c).) A party may also seek summary adjudication of select causes
of action, affirmative defenses, claims for damages, or issues of duty, which
may be made by a standalone motion or as an alternative to a motion for summary
judgment and proceeds in all procedural respects like a motion for summary
judgment, but which must completely dispose of the challenged cause of action,
affirmative defense, claim for damages, or issue of duty. (Code Civ. Proc., §
437c, subds. (f)(1)-(2), (t).)
The moving party bears the initial
burden of production to make a prima facie showing that no triable issue of
material fact exists. (Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25
Cal.4th 826, 850.) To meet this burden, a moving party must show not only “that
the [responding party] does not possess needed evidence” but also that
“the [responding party] cannot reasonably obtain needed evidence.”¿(Aguilar,
supra, 25 Cal.4th at p. 854.)¿It is insufficient for the moving party to
merely point out the absence of evidence.¿(Gaggero v. Yura (2003) 108
Cal.App.4th 884, 891.)¿The moving party “must also produce evidence that the [responding
party] cannot reasonably obtain evidence to support his or her claim.”¿(Ibid.)¿The
supporting evidence can be in the form of affidavits, declarations, admissions,
depositions, answers to interrogatories, and matters of which judicial notice
may be taken.¿(Aguilar, supra, 25 Cal.4th at p. 855.) 
“Once the [moving party] … has met
that burden, the burden shifts to the [responding party] … to show that a
triable issue of one or more material facts exists as to the cause of action or
a defense thereto.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (p)(2).) The responding may
not merely rely on allegations or denials of its pleadings to show that a
triable issue of material fact exists, but instead, “shall set forth the
specific facts showing that a triable issue of material fact exists as to the
cause of action.”¿(Ibid.)¿“If the [responding party] cannot do so,
summary judgment should be granted.”¿(Avivi v. Centro Medico Urgente Medical
Center (2008) 159 Cal.App.4th 463, 467.)  
“On a summary judgment motion, the
court must therefore consider what inferences favoring the opposing party a
factfinder could reasonably draw from the evidence.¿While viewing the evidence
in this manner, the court must bear in mind that its primary function is to
identify issues rather than to determine issues.¿[Citation.]¿Only when the
inferences are indisputable may the court decide the issues as a matter of
law.¿ If the evidence is in conflict, the factual issues must be resolved by
trial.”¿(Binder v. Aetna Life Ins. Co. (1999) 75 Cal.App.4th 832,
839.)¿Further, “the trial court may not weigh the evidence in the manner of a
factfinder to determine whose version is more likely true.¿[Citation.]¿Nor may
the trial court grant summary judgment based on the court’s evaluation of
credibility. [Citation.]” (Id. at p. 840; see also Weiss v. People ex
rel. Department of Transportation (2020) 9 Cal.5th 840, 864 [“Courts
deciding motions for summary judgment or summary adjudication may not weigh the
evidence but must instead view it in the light most favorable to the opposing
party and draw all reasonable inferences in favor of that party”].)
D. Analysis
Wawanesa moves for summary
judgment, or in the alternative summary adjudication, on the grounds that there
is no triable issue regarding the following facts material to the declaratory
relief action: 
(1)  
Defendants Cheryl Lyn Martinez and Joyce Robles
breached the "Duties After An Accident or A Loss" condition of the
policy with Wawanesa by failing to fully cooperate with Wawanesa's claim
investigation, thereby eliminating further right to policy benefits relating to
the alleged accident of January 10, 2022; and 
(2)  
Defendants Cheryl Lyn Martinez and Joyce Robles
breached the "Fraud and Misrepresentation" condition of the policy
with Wawanesa, thereby eliminating further right to policy benefits relating to
the alleged accident of January 10, 2022. 
The parties do not dispute that Defendant
Martinez purchased an automobile policy, policy number 38369770, from Wawanesa
on September 5, 2021. (Undisputed Material Fact (UMF) No. 1.) The relevant
provisions of the policy are as follows:
 
“Duties
After An Accident Or A Loss: We have no duty to provide coverage under
this policy unless there has been full compliance with the following duties… 
B. A ‘person’ seeking any coverage
must: 
1. Cooperate with us in the
investigation, settlement or defense of any claim or suit. 
2. Promptly send us copies of any
notices or legal papers received in connection with the accident or loss. 
3. Submit, as often as we
reasonably require: 
a. To physical
exams by physicians we select. We will pay for these exams. 
b. To examination
under oath and sign, date and return same.
4. Authorize us to obtain:
a. Medical
reports; and
b. Other pertinent
records.
5. Submit a sworn proof of loss
when required by us. This proof of loss may require a signed affidavit.” (Mot.
pp. 3-4.)
“Legal Action Against Us: 
A. No legal action may be brought
against us until there has been full compliance with all the terms of this
policy ....” (Mot. p. 5.)
“Fraud and Misrepresentation:
Coverage is not provided to any ‘person’ who conceals or misrepresents any
material fact or circumstance relating to this insurance: 
1. At the time application is made;
or 
2. At any time during the policy
period; or 
3. In connection with the
presentation, investigation or settlement of a claim.” (Mot. p. 8.) 
 
Wawanesa states that Defendants Martinez
and Robles violated the “Duties After An Accident Or A Loss” provision because
they failed or refused to provide separate recorded statements, separate examinations,
or the claim related documents as requested by Wawanesa. (Mot. p. 6; Knapp
Decl., Ex. 15, Martinez's Response to Requests for Admission, Set One,
(Martinez RFA) nos. 5-10, Ex. 16, Robles's Response to Requests for Admission,
Set One, (Robles RFA), nos. 5-10.). Wawensa further alleges that the failure or
refusal to provide the requested items violates the “Fraud and
Misrepresentation” provision of the policy because the Defendants “misrepresented
and concealed the accident's occurrence, including the totality of facts and
circumstances surrounding the loss.” (Mot. p. 10.) 
Thus, because Wawanesa has established
the above provisions in the insurance policy and the Defendants’ failure to
comply with the provisions, Wawanesa has met its initial burden of production
to make a prima facie showing that no triable issue of material fact exists. 
The burden then shifts to the
Defendants to show that a triable issue of one or more material facts exists as
to the cause of action. 
Defendants argue that the motion is
defective because Wawanesa only attached the policy cover page and declaration
pages to its motion but neglected to attach the complete policy. (See Gonzalez
Decl., Ex 2.) However, the provisions at issue are copied in full in the body
of Wawanesa’s motion. Further, Defendants do not argue that they are unaware of
the policy or are not in possession of the full policy themselves. Although
Wawanesa initially attached only part of the policy, Wawanesa subsequently submitted
the complete policy. (See Knapp Further Decl., Ex. 2, filed September 26, 2024.)
Wawanesa’s error has not prejudiced the Defendants from meeting their burden of
showing that no triable issue of material fact exists. 
Defendants further assert that there
are issues of material fact because Wawanesa attempted to schedule an
examination under oath before Defendants made a formal demand for arbitration in
July 2022, and that Wawanesa denied coverage for the claim in August 2022.
(Opp. pp. 11-12.) The Defendants argue that it is unclear if Wawanesa is
arguing that the Defendants breached the policy prior to the demand for
arbitration. (Opp. p. 12.) Otherwise, they contend that Wawanesa has failed to show
that an examination under oath must precede a demand for arbitration. 
However, the scope, applicability,
or circumstances surrounding the demand to arbitrate are not at issue in this
action. This action was brought to decide the question of other rights and
obligations between the parties. While some overlap exists, Wawanesa moves for
summary judgment in this action on the grounds that the Defendants violated the
express terms of the insurance policy by failing to cooperate with Wawanesa’s
investigation, and thus the Defendants are not entitled to policy benefits. Consequently,
Defendants’ arguments pertaining to the arbitration demand do not create a
triable issue of material fact in this action. 
Lastly, Defendants argue that Wawanesa
has not shown that the Defendants concealed or misrepresented a material fact
or circumstance in violation of the “Fraud and Misrepresentation” provision.
Defendant’s failure or refusal to provide the information requested by Wawanesa
or submit to examinations under oath does not establish concealment or
misrepresentation. Some of the facts Wawanesa describes, for example, that Robles
was listed as a “transient” in the police report or the timing of when Martinez
obtained the insurance policy, imply that Wawanesa believes there to have been
fraud involved. (Reply p. 14; see also, UMF No. 13.) However, Wawanesa has not
proven its implications of fraud such that a factfinder could not reasonably
find otherwise. There is a dispute of material fact as to whether the
Defendants violated the “Fraud and Misrepresentation” provision of the
insurance policy. 
Nonetheless, Wawanesa established
that there is no triable issue of material fact that the Defendants violated
the “Duties After An Accident Or A Loss” provision of the insurance policy.
That provision requires Defendants to cooperate with Wawanesa in the
investigation, including providing documents as requested and submitting to
examination under oath. Defendants do not dispute that they failed, at least in
part, to provide the documents or examinations. (UMF 15-20.) None of their
additional material facts indicate any effort to cooperate that materially
disputes their failure to cooperate. Accordingly, Defendants have not met their
burden to show that a triable issue of material fact exists as to whether they
breached the terms of the insurance policy. 
Accordingly, Wawanesa’s motion for
summary judgment is GRANTED.
III. Conclusion
Plaintiff Wawanesa General Insurance Company’s Motion for Summary Judgment is GRANTED.