 Case Number:  23SMCV00779    Hearing Date:   April 25, 2024    Dept:  P Tentative Ruling 
O’Dell v. Powell,
et al. Case No. 23SMCV00779 
Hearing Date: April
25, 2024
Defendants Il
Pastaio’s Demurrer to Plaintiff’s Complaint
 
Plaintiff was shot
by unknown assailants while dining at defendant Il Pastaio and alleges defendants
failed to keep the premises safe. Defendants Il Pastaio and Drago demurrer to
the third and fifth causes of action for negligence and negligent infliction of
emotional distress. No opposition was filed. 
 
Negligence 
To state a claim
for negligence, a party must allege (1) duty, (2) breach, and (3) causation. CACI
400, see, e.g. McIntyre v. Colonies-Pacific, LLC (2014) 228 Cal.App.4th
664, 671. For purposes of negligence liability, a landlord has a duty to take
reasonable precautions to protect patrons from highly foreseeable third-party
crimes. Ann M. v. Pacific Plaza Shopping Center (1993) 6 Cal.4th 666,
679. Foreseeability can be proven through similar past incidents, but they are not
required. Absent prior similar incidents, a duty of care can be shown with
other factors such as “the nature, condition, and location” of the premises.
Defendants argue the
negligence claim fails because plaintiffs have not alleged prior similar
incidents, so fail to establish a duty of care. Per Ann M., prior
similar incidents are not the only way to establish a duty of care.
Plaintiff alleges “In the
six years prior to the robbery at the Premises,” defendants had “over 300 calls
to the premises by law enforcement,” which included “disturbances for fighting,
robbery, battery, grand theft, petty theft, assault, and keeping the peace,
among others.” Complaint ¶25. The complaint further alleges defendants had “sufficient
knowledge of the dangerous condition of the Premises and the potential hazards
to restaurant[.]” Id. ¶26. For pleading purposes, this sufficiently
alleges the attack was “highly foreseeable.” OVERRULED. 
Negligent Infliction
of Emotional Distress (NIED) 
 
“The law of
negligent infliction of emotional distress in California is typically analyzed
by reference to two theories of recovery: the ‘bystander’ theory and the
‘direct victim’ theory. The negligent causing of emotional distress is not an
independent tort, but the tort of negligence. The traditional elements of duty,
breach of duty, causation, and damages apply. Whether a defendant owes a duty
of care is a question of law.” Spates v. Dameron Hosp. Ass’n. (2003) 114
Cal.App.4th 208, 213. 
 
Defendants contend
the NIED claim repackages the negligence cause of action and focuses on
emotional distress rather than physical injury damages. 
 
The complaint
alleges plaintiff was lawfully on the premises when she was robbed. Complaint ¶¶
33-34. Plaintiff further alleges that as a result of the robbery, she fractured
her shoulder and suffered pain in her spine. Id. ¶ 36. This is sufficient
to state a cause of action at the pleadings stage. OVERRULED. Defendants to answer
within 10 court days. 