  Case Number:  23SMCV00591    Hearing Date:   April 25, 2024    Dept:  P Tentative Ruling 
Doe v. Weinstein,
Case No. 23SMCV00591 
Hearing Date: April
25, 2024
Plaintiff’s Motion
for Stay of Discovery Pending Resolution for Parallel Criminal Proceedings
 
On December 19,
2022, defendant Weinstein was convicted of raping plaintiff Jane Doe, who now sues
based on that assault. Plaintiff seeks a stay of the proceeding pending
resolution of Weinstein’s criminal appeal. 
 
Courts have broad
discretion to stay cases in the interest of efficiency and justice. Every court
has the “inherent power, in its discretion, to stay proceedings when such a
stay will accommodate the ends of justice.” See St. Paul Fire and Marine Ins.
Co. v. AmerisourceBergen Corp. (2022) 80 Cal.App.5th 1, 6-7.  Courts are empowered to “provide for the
orderly conduct of proceedings before it.” C.C.P. §128(a)(3); see C.C.P. §187
[conferring on courts and judicial officers “all the means necessary” to carry
out their jurisdiction].
 
“The decision
whether to stay civil proceedings in the face of a parallel criminal proceeding
should be made ‘in light of the particular circumstances and competing
interests involved in the case.’ [Citation.] This means the decisionmaker
should consider ‘the extent to which the defendant's fifth amendment rights are
implicated.’ [Citation.] In addition, the decisionmaker should generally
consider the following factors: (1) the interest of the plaintiffs in
proceeding expeditiously with this litigation or any particular aspect of it,
and the potential prejudice to plaintiffs of a delay; (2) the burden which any
particular aspect of the proceedings may impose on defendants; (3) the
convenience of the court in the management of its cases, and the efficient use
of judicial resources; (4) the interests of persons not parties to the civil
litigation; and (5) the interest of the public in the pending civil and
criminal litigation.” Avant! Corp. v. Superior Court (2000) 79
Cal.App.4th 876, 885, quoting Keating v. Office of Thrift Supervision
(9th Cir. 1995) 45 F.3d 322, 324. 
 
In Pacers, Inc.
v. Superior Court petitioners were not criminal defendants, but were
threatened with criminal prosecution and granted a stay to prevent prosecutors from
monitoring the civil proceedings, hoping to obtain incriminating testimony from
petitioners via civil discovery. The court held this would undermine the Fifth
Amendment privilege and violate concepts of fundamental fairness. Pacers,
Inc. v. Superior Court (1984) 162 Cal.App.3d 686, 690.
 
Weinstein cites Avant
to support his contention that plaintiff has no basis for seeing a stay
other than to reap the benefits of the appeal and not prosecute the case. Bains
held the trial court did not abuse its discretion in declining a stay when it
was moving party did not satisfy the factors outlined. Avant! Corp. Bains
v. Moores (2009) 172 Cal.App.4th 445, 485-486. Here, plaintiff has an
interest in the appeal being resolved, as the outcome determines her ability to
raise issue preclusion. Weinstein would not be burdened because, as plaintiff’s
counsel notes, neither party has taken depositions, and the matter is in the
early stages of discovery. Shukry Decl. ¶¶ 2,7. Weinstein failed to show a stay
would burden him, particularly given that he began scheduling depositions only after
plaintiff indicated her intention to seek a stay. Id. ¶ 2. The matter is
further distinguishable from Bains, as the proceedings have not run as
long, nor has the court previously issued a stay.
 
A stay would
additionally promote judicial efficiency by avoiding duplicative efforts for
the parties and the court. Furthermore, a stay would be in the public interest,
noting that public interest favors a stay to prevent the subversion of a
criminal proceeding. Thus, plaintiff has met her burden. GRANTED. 