 Case Number:  23STCV01373    Hearing Date:   February 2, 2024    Dept:  15 [TENTATIVE] ORDER RE
MOTION FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT (PLASTIC SALES SOUTHERN)
On January 20, 2023,
Plaintiffs Roberto E. Sotomayor and Patricia Bilgin filed this action alleging
Sotomayor developed mesothelioma as a result of exposure to asbestos-containing
products from Defendant Plastic Sales Southern, Inc.  On November 15, 2023, Defendant filed a motion
for summary judgment, and alternatively a motion for summary adjudication of
the fraud cause of action and request for punitive damages.  
Plaintiffs’ Objection Nos.
1-6:  The court did not rely on this evidence.

A defendant seeking
summary judgment must “conclusively negate[] a necessary element of the
plaintiff’s case, or . . . demonstrate[] that under no hypothesis is there a
material issue of fact that requires the process of trial.”  (Guz v. Bechtel Nat. Inc. (2000) 24
Cal.4th 317, 334.)  To show that a
plaintiff cannot establish an element of a cause of action, a defendant must
make the initial showing “that the plaintiff does not possess, and cannot
reasonably obtain, needed evidence.”  (Aguilar
v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 854.)  “The defendant may, but need not, present
evidence that conclusively negates an element of the plaintiff’s cause of
action.  The defendant may also present
evidence that the plaintiff does not possess, and cannot reasonably obtain,
needed evidence – as through admissions by the plaintiff following extensive
discovery to the effect that he has discovered nothing.”  (Id. at p. 855.)  A plaintiff’s deposition testimony that the
plaintiff has no knowledge of any exposure to the defendant’s products may be
sufficient to shift the burden to the plaintiff to demonstrate the existence of
triable issues of fact. (McGonnell v. Kaiser Gypsum Co., Inc. (2002) 98
Cal.App.4th 1098, 1103-1104.)  The
plaintiff’s deposition testimony that he did not recall ever working with a
product manufactured by the defendant may not be sufficient to shift the burden
if the plaintiff is able to prove his case by another means.  (Weber v. John Crane, Inc. (2006) 143
Cal.App.4th 1433, 1439.)  “ ‘If
plaintiffs respond to comprehensive interrogatories seeking all known facts
with boilerplate answers that restate their allegations, or simply provide
laundry lists of people and/or documents, the burden of production will almost
certainly be shifted to them once defendants move for summary judgment and
properly present plaintiff’s factually devoid discovery responses.’”  (Id. at p. 1440.)
Defendant contends
Plaintiffs have no evidence Sotomayor was exposed to asbestos-containing
products from Defendant, citing Plaintiffs’ interrogatory responses.  (Motion at p. 13; Undisputed Material Fact (“UMF”)
3, 4.)  In response to interrogatories
asking for all facts supporting Plaintiffs’ contention that Defendant is
liable, Plaintiffs respond vaguely and without any specific evidence that Sotomayor
was exposed to asbestos from Defendant’s machining plastic parts, including
plastic molding compounds, phenolic molding compounds, phenolic resin
materials, and Micarta.  (Defendant’s
Index, Ex. B at pp. 1-3.)  Plaintiffs identified
Sotomayor as a person with knowledge of facts of his exposure, along with
unnamed people associated with Defendant.  (Id. at p. 5.)  In response to requests for production of all
documents supporting exposure to asbestos from products supplied by Defendant, Plaintiffs
generally identified Sotomayor’s interrogatory responses, deposition testimony,
and his employment and medical records.  (Defendant’s
Index, Ex. D at pp. 1-2.)  
Defendant also cites
Sotomayor’s deposition testimony that his company, S&K Precision
Engineering, worked with a lot of material from Plastic Sales, purchased
Micarta from Plastic Sales, placed orders from Plastic Sales, and had an
account with Plastic Sales.  (Defendant’s
Index, Ex. I at pp. 655-656, 657, 690, 691, 698.)  He does not know the ingredients of the parts
he purchased from Plastic Sales or the brand of the materials he bought from
Plastic Sales and has no documents about the sales with Plastic Sales.  (Id. at pp. 695, 698.)  
None of these discovery
responses or testimony contained evidence that Sotomayor was exposed to
asbestos from Defendant’s products.  Thus
Defendant shifted the burden.
In opposition, Plaintiffs
emphasize that Sotomayor bought Micarta, which they say was manufactured by
Westinghouse, from Defendant. 
(Opposition at p. 12.)  However,
Plaintiffs submit no evidence that Micarta contained asbestos.
Plaintiffs contend in
their opposition that they need a continuance of the hearing because of
outstanding discovery.  (Motion at p.
13.)  Plaintiffs say they noticed the
deposition of Defendant.  (Ibid.)  However, that deposition took place on
January 22, 2024, eleven days ago.  (Steward
Decl. at p. 2.)  Therefore there is no
need for a continuance.  Further, Plaintiffs
filed this lawsuit against Defendant on January 20, 2023.  Thus, Plaintiffs had many months to depose
Defendant.  Instead, Plaintiffs waited
until December 29, 2023, six weeks after being served with Defendant’s motion
on November 15, 2023, to serve the deposition notice.  If Plaintiffs had served the deposition
notice immediately after November 15, 2023, the deposition could have taken place
many weeks ago.  Plaintiffs should no
good cause for their lack of diligence.
The motion is GRANTED.  Defendant is to file a proposed judgment within
five days.
The moving party is to
give notice.