  Case Number:  21STCV36914    Hearing Date:   February 2, 2024    Dept:  15 [TENTATIVE] ORDER RE
MOTION FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT
Plaintiffs Randy Bronson,
Ricky Bronson, Robby Bronson, and Joy Bronson filed this action alleging that decedent
Ronald Bronson developed mesothelioma from exposure to Defendant Sherwin-Williams
Company’s products.  On November 30,
2021, Defendant filed a motion for summary judgement arguing Plaintiffs cannot
prove exposure to asbestos in Defendant’s products.  Plaintiffs did not oppose the motion.
A
defendant seeking summary judgment must “conclusively negate[] a necessary
element of the plaintiff’s case, or . . . demonstrate[] that under no
hypothesis is there a material issue of fact that requires the process of
trial.”
 (Guz v. Bechtel Nat. Inc. (2000) 24
Cal.4th 317, 334.)  To show that a
plaintiff cannot establish an element of a cause of action, a defendant must
make the initial showing “that the plaintiff does not possess, and cannot
reasonably obtain, needed evidence.”  (Aguilar v.
Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 854.)  “The defendant
may, but need not, present evidence that conclusively negates an element of the
plaintiff’s cause of action.  The defendant
may also present evidence that the plaintiff does not possess, and cannot
reasonably obtain, needed evidence – as through admissions by the plaintiff
following extensive discovery to the effect that he has discovered nothing.”  (Id. at
p. 855.)
 A plaintiff’s deposition testimony that the
plaintiff has no knowledge of any exposure to the defendant’s products may be
sufficient to shift the burden to the plaintiff to demonstrate the existence of
triable issues of fact.  (McGonnell
v. Kaiser Gypsum Co., Inc. (2002) 98 Cal.App.4th 1098, 1103-1104.)  The plaintiff’s
deposition testimony that he did not recall ever working with a product
manufactured by the defendant may not be sufficient to shift the burden if the
plaintiff is able to prove his case by another means.  (Weber v.
John Crane, Inc. (2006) 143 Cal.App.4th 1433, 1439.)  “‘If plaintiffs
respond to comprehensive interrogatories seeking all known facts with boilerplate
answers that restate their allegations, or simply provide laundry lists of
people and/or documents, the burden of production will almost certainly be
shifted to them once defendants move for summary judgment and properly present
plaintiff’s factually devoid discovery responses.’” (Id. at p. 1440.)
Defendant argues Plaintiffs
cannot establish that Ronald Bronson was exposed to asbestos in Defendant’s
paint.  (Motion at p. 3.)  Bronson’s son testified Bronson used
Defendant’s Block-Tek paint between the mid-1960s up to 1980.  (Undisputed Material Fact “UMF”) 3-5.)  He recalled seeing his father sand the paint
only in 1980.  (UMF 7.)  Bronson’s other sons did not see Bronson work
with Defendant’s products.  (UMF 11, 12.)  Defendant’s witness testified that Bloc-Tek
contained a small amount of asbestos up to about 1973.  (UMF 21.) 
Defendant’s expert testified that asbestos in Bloc-Tek paint is
encapsulated and therefore does not become airborne during normal use, and no
industrial hygiene studies show asbestos fiber release or exposure to asbestos from
sanding paint.  (UMF 23, 24-26.) 
Defendant established that
by 1980 when Bronson sanded Defendant’s paint, it did not contain
asbestos.  And even if Bronson sanded
Defendant’s paint when he used it pre-1973 (although there is no evidence of
that), Defendant established such sanding did not expose him to asbestos.  Defendant’s evidence of lack of exposure to
asbestos shifted the burden to Plaintiffs. 
Because Plaintiffs did not file an opposition, they did not show any
disputed issue of material fact. 
The motion for summary
judgment is GRANTED.  Defendant is to
file a proposed judgment within five day.
The moving party is to
give notice.