 Case Number:  23STCV16061    Hearing Date:   February 2, 2024    Dept:  15 [TENTATIVE] ORDER RE MOTIONS TO QUASH (IMI FABI)
            Plaintiff
Maria Lozano filed this action alleging she developed mesothelioma as a result
of exposure to asbestos in products from Mary Kay, Revlon, Max Factor, and
Johnson & Johnson.  (Opposition at pp.
1-2.)  Defendants IMI Fabi (USA), Inc., IMI
Fabi, LLC, and IMI Fabi (Diana), LLC filed motions to quash service of summons
for lack of personal jurisdiction.  Plaintiff
asked for jurisdictional discovery, so the court continued the hearing
date.  The parties filed supplemental
briefs.
A defendant may move to quash
service of summons on the ground of lack of jurisdiction of the court over him or
her.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 418.10, subd. (a)(1).)  The court may dismiss without prejudice the complaint
in whole, or as to that defendant, when dismissal is made pursuant to Section 418.10.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 581, subd. (h).)  
“A court of this state may
exercise jurisdiction on any basis not inconsistent with the Constitution of this
state or of the United States.”  (Code Civ.
Proc., § 410.10.)  “The Due Process Clause
protects an individual’s liberty interest in not being subject to the binding judgments
of a forum with which he has established no meaningful ‘contacts, ties, or relations.’”  (Burger
King Corp. v. Rudzewicz (1985) 471 U.S. 462, 471-472.)  A state court may not exercise personal jurisdiction
over a party under circumstances that would offend “traditional notions of fair
play and substantial justice.”  (Asahi Metal Industry Co., Ltd., v. Superior Court
of California, Solano County (1987) 480 U.S. 102, 113.)  
When a defendant moves to
quash service of process on jurisdictional grounds, the plaintiff has the initial
burden of demonstrating facts justifying the exercise of jurisdiction.  (Jayone
Foods, Inc. v. Aekyung Industrial Co. Ltd. (2019) 31 Cal.App.5th 543, 553.)  Once facts showing minimum contacts with the forum
state are established, the defendant has the burden to demonstrate that the exercise
of jurisdiction would be unreasonable.  (Ibid.) 
“The plaintiff must provide specific evidentiary facts, through affidavits
and other authenticated documents, sufficient to allow the court to independently
conclude whether jurisdiction is appropriate. 
[Citation.]  The plaintiff cannot rely
on allegations in an unverified complaint or vague and conclusory assertions of
ultimate facts.  [Citation.]”  (Strasner
v. Touchstone Wireless Repair & Logistics, LP (2016) 5 Cal.App.5th 215,
222.)
A defendant is subject to
a state’s general jurisdiction if its contacts “are so continuance and
systematic as to render [it] essentially at home in the forum State.”  (Saimler AG v. Bauman (2014) 571 U.S.
117, 127.)  A nonresident defendant may be
subject to the specific jurisdiction of the forum “if the defendant has purposefully
availed himself or herself of forum benefits [citation], and the ‘controversy is
related to or “arises out of” a defendant’s contacts with the forum.’  [Citations.]” 
(Vons Companies, Inc. v. Seabest Foods,
Inc. (1996) 14 Cal.4th 434, 446.) 
This test does not require a “causal relationship between the
defendant’s in-state activity and the litigation.”  (Ford Motor Co. v. Montana Eighth Judicial
District Court (2021) 141 S.Ct. 1017, 1026.)  The “arise out” of standard “asks about
causation,” but “relate to” does not.  (Ibid.)  “[W]hen a corporation has ‘continuously and
deliberately exploited [a State’s] market, it must reasonably anticipate being
haled into [that State’s] court[s]’ to defend actions ‘based on’ products
causing injury there.”  (Id. at p.
1027.)  
IMI Fabi (USA), Inc. states
it is the holding company of IMI Fabi, LLC and never did any business in
connection with California.  (See Zuppini
Decl. generally.)  IMI Fabi, LLC states it
is a West Virginia company, and before 2005 it sold only industrial grade talc
for non-cosmetic applications and never did any business in connection with
California.  (See Woods Decl. generally.)
 IMI Fabi (Diana), LLC states it is a
North Carolia company with its headquarters in New York until it closed in 2004
and had no connections to California. 
(See Brown Decl. generally.)
Plaintiff does not
contest that there is no general jurisdiction over Defendants.  Instead, Plaintiff argues without evidence
that IMI Fabi LLC, IMI Fabi (USA) Inc., and IMI Fabi (Diana), LLC “supplied
asbestos-containing talc” to manufacturers of products” that she used.  (Oppositions at p. 1.)  Plaintiff cites no evidence for these
assertions and does not identify the talcum powder and cosmetic products for
which Defendants allegedly provided the talc. 
Instead, Plaintiff points to the allegations of her complaint as
sufficient to defeat this motion. 
(Opposition at p. 4.)  That is
contrary to the law; a plaintiff must submit evidence, not allegations.  (Strasner,
supra, 5 Cal.App.5th at p. 222.)
            Plaintiff
then points to evidence about Avon products. 
(Opposition at p. 4.)  But
Plaintiff does not state that she used Avon products.  She states she used Mary Kay, Revlon, Max
Factor, and Johnson & Johnson products (Opposition at p. 1), and Avon is
not a defendant in this case.  Therefore
sales from Defendant to Avon are irrelevant to this case.  
            In
her supplemental opposition, Plaintiff contends IMI Fabi Diana sold Talc 141 to
Revlon.  (Supp. Opposition at pp.
1-2.)  Plaintiff says there was a
distribution agreement between IMI Fabi (Plaintiff does not identify which of
the three entities) and Cosmetic Specialty for Cosmetic Specialty to distribute
IMI Fabi’s talc, including in California. 
(Supp. Opposition at p. 3.)  However,
the existence of the distribution agreement and sales to Revlon do not
establish that Plaintiff’s claim arises out of or relates to Defendants IMI
Fabi (USA), Inc.’s, IMI Fabi, LLC’s, or IMI Fabi (Diana)’s contacts with
California.
            Plaintiff
states she needs more discovery because IMI Fabi (USA), Inc., IMI Fabi, LLC,
and IMI Fabi (Diana) have not yet produced documents requested by Plaintiff.
The court continues the
hearing to April 25, 2024 at 9 a.m.  If
Plaintiff is going to file a motion to compel jurisdictional discovery, it must
file the motion forthwith.  The parties
may file supplemental briefs according to the statutory schedule.
            The
moving parties are to give notice.