 Case Number:  23TRCV02127    Hearing Date:   February 29, 2024    Dept:  M LOS ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT –
SOUTHWEST DISTRICT
 
 
Honorable Gary Y. Tanaka                                                                                  Thursday,
February 29, 2024
Department M                                                                                                                           Calendar No. 12
 
 
PROCEEDINGS
 
Addie Richburg v. American Airlines,
Inc., et al.
            23TRCV02127
1.      Far East Transportation, LLC’s Motion to Strike and for
Sanctions Pursuant to CCP Section 128.7 
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 
            Far East Transportation, LLC’s
Motion to Strike and for Sanctions Pursuant to CCP Section 128.7 is denied. 
 
Background
 
Plaintiff filed the Complaint on June 30, 2023. Plaintiff
alleges the following facts. Plaintiff fell from a wheelchair because
Defendants failed to ensure safe transport from the airport terminal to the
parking garage. Plaintiff alleges the following causes of action: 1. Negligence
2. Negligent Hiring, Training, and Supervision 3. Premises Liability.
 
Motion for Sanctions 
 
Pursuant to Code of Civil
Procedure section 128.7, subdivision (a), every pleading, petition, written
notice of motion, or other similar paper must be signed by at least one
attorney of record in the attorney’s individual name or, if the party is not
represented by an attorney, must be signed by the party. An attorney or
unrepresented party who presents a pleading, motion or similar paper to the
court makes an implied “certification” as to its legal and factual merit; and
is subject to sanctions for violation of this certification. The purpose of the
statute is “to check abuses in the filing of pleadings, petitions, written
notices of motions or similar papers.” Musaelian
v. Adams (2009) 45 Cal.4th 512, 514.
 
“By presenting to the court,
whether by signing, filing, submitting, or later advocating, a pleading,
petition, written notice of motion, or other similar paper, an attorney or
unrepresented party is certifying that to the best of the person’s knowledge,
information, and belief, formed after an inquiry reasonable under the
circumstances, all of the following conditions are met: 
(1) Proper purpose: It is
not being presented primarily for an improper purpose, such as to harass or to
cause unnecessary delay or needless increase in the cost of litigation;
 (2) Legal merit: The claims, defenses, and other legal contentions
stated in the pleading or other paper are warranted by existing law or by a
nonfrivolous argument for the extension, modification, or reversal of existing
law or the establishment of new law;
 (3) Evidentiary support: The allegations and other factual
contentions have evidentiary support or, if specifically so identified, are
likely to have evidentiary support after a reasonable opportunity for further
investigation or discovery; and
 (4) The denials of factual contentions are warranted on the evidence
or, if specifically so identified, are reasonably based on a lack of
information or belief.” 
 Code Civ. Proc., § 128.7, subd. (b).
 
A violation of any of these
certifications may give rise to sanctions. Eichenbaum
v. Alon (2003) 106 Cal.App.4th 967, 976. The certification is designed to
create an affirmative duty of investigation as to both law and fact, and thus
to deter frivolous actions and costly meritless maneuvers. Business Guides, Inc. v. Chromatic Communications Enterprises, Inc.
(1991) 498 U.S. 533, 550 [interpreting Federal Rule 11].) Whether the
certificate is violated is tested objectively: i.e., whether the paper filed is
frivolous, legally unreasonable or without factual foundation. “The actual
belief standard ... requires a well-founded belief. We measure the
truth-finding inquiry’s reasonableness under an objective standard and apply
this standard both to attorneys and to their clients.” Bockrath v. Aldrich Chem. Co., Inc. (1999) 21 Cal.4th 71, 82.
 
“Code of Civil Procedure
section 128.7 sanctions should be made with restraint, and are not mandatory
even if a claim is frivolous. Further, when determining whether sanctions
should be imposed, the issue is not merely whether the party would prevail on
the underlying factual or legal argument. Instead, courts should apply an
objective test of reasonableness, including whether any reasonable attorney
would agree that [the claim] is totally and completely without merit. Thus, the
fact that a plaintiff fails to provide a sufficient showing to overcome a
demurrer or to survive summary judgment is not, in itself, enough to warrant
the imposition of sanctions. [¶] Because our adversary system requires that
attorneys and litigants be provided substantial breathing room to develop and
assert factual and legal arguments, sanctions should not be routinely or easily
awarded even for a claim that is arguably frivolous. Courts must carefully
consider the circumstances before awarding sanctions.” Peake v. Underwood
(2014) 227 Cal.App.4th 428, 448.
 
A Code of Civil Procedure
section 128.7 motion involves a two-step process. The moving party first serves
the sanctions motion on the offending party without filing it. The opposing
party then has 21 days to withdraw the improper pleading and avoid sanctions
(the so-called “safe harbor” waiting period). At the end of the waiting period,
if the pleading is not withdrawn, the moving party may then file the motion.
(Code Civ. Proc., § 128.7, subd. (c)(1); Martorana
v. Marlin & Saltzman (2009) 175 Cal.App.4th 685, 698-699; see Marriage
of Falcone & Fyke (2008) 164 Cal.App.4th 814, 826.) Code of Civil
Procedure section 128.7 expressly applies to “petitions” and “pleadings.”
“Pleadings” includes allegations and defenses contained in complaints,
cross-complaints, answers and demurrers. (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 420, 422.10.)
 
To avoid sanctions, the
party need only “appropriately” correct the violation. (Code Civ. Proc., §
128.7, subd. (c)(1).) Normally, this means the party must withdraw the
challenged pleading or paper or at least acknowledge its lack of factual or
legal merit at the present time. This can be done either formally or
informally; e.g., by filing amendments to challenged pleadings or declarations,
or formally withdrawing a challenged motion, or simply writing a letter to
opposing counsel stating the challenged argument is withdrawn, etc. Parties who
comply by withdrawing papers that are the subject of a Code of Civil Procedure
section 128.7 motion must notify the moving party of such compliance before the
end of the “safe harbor” period to avoid the imposition of sanctions. Without
such notice, the moving party may not realize the problem has been resolved and
may incur the expense and effort of filing the sanctions motions. Liberty Mut. Fire Ins. Co. v. McKenzie
(2001) 88 Cal.App.4th 681, 692. 
 
If the Code of Civil
Procedure section 128.7 certification is violated, the court may impose an
“appropriate” sanction upon the attorneys, law firms or parties responsible for
the violation. (Code Civ. Proc., § 128.7, subd. (c).) Sanctions under section 128.7
are discretionary. The court is not required to impose a monetary sanction or
any sanction at all. (See Code Civ.
Proc., § 128.7, subd. (c); See Kojababian v. Genuine Home Loans, Inc.
(2009) 174 Cal.App.4th 408, 421.) 
 
Non-monetary sanctions may
include striking the offending pleading; issuing a reprimand; requiring
participation in continuing legal education programs; or referring the matters
to disciplinary authorities. Monetary sanctions include both fines and penalties
payable to the court; and an award to the opposing party for some or all of the
“reasonable attorney's fees and other expenses incurred as a direct result of
the violation.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 128.7, subd. (d).) “If warranted,” the
court may award the prevailing party its reasonable expenses and attorney fees
“incurred in presenting or opposing the motion.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 128.7,
subd. (c)(1).)
 
Sanctions may be awarded
against the persons—whether attorneys, law firms, or parties—who have violated
Code of Civil Procedure section 128.7, subdivision (b), or who are responsible
for the violation. (Code Civ. Proc., § 128.7, subd. (c).) “Absent exceptional
circumstances,” a law firm must be held jointly responsible for violations by
its partners, associates or employees, and sanctioned accordingly. (Code Civ.
Proc., § 128.7, subd. (c)(1).) Where the violation consists of meritless
contentions of law (see Code Civ. Proc., § 128.7, subd. (b)(2)), no monetary
sanctions may be awarded against the client. (Code Civ. Proc., § 128.7, subd.
(d)(1); see Cromwell v. Cummings (1998) 65 Cal.App.4th Supp. 10, 13, fn. 4
[“Monetary responsibility for such violations is more properly placed solely on
the party’s attorneys”]; Burkle v. Burkle
(2006) 144 Cal.App.4th 387, 407.)
 
CCP § 128.7 Safe Harbor
Provision

CCP § 128.7(c)(1) states, in
relevant part: “Notice of motion shall be served as provided in Section 1010,
but shall not be filed with or presented to the court unless, within 21 days
after service of the motion, or any other period as the court may prescribe,
the challenged paper, claim, defense, contention, allegation, or denial is not
withdrawn or appropriately corrected.”   
 
Here, Defendant served the
motion by personal service on October 18, 2023. Defendant filed the motion on November
8, 2024. Thus, Defendant adequately complied with the safe harbor
provision.  
 
CCP 128.7 Motion for
Sanctions 
 
Defendant moves for
sanctions to strike the Complaint, to dismiss it with prejudice and for
monetary sanctions against Plaintiff and her counsel in the sum of $4,335.00.
The motion is made on the grounds that the claims against Defendant have been
(1) brought primarily for an improper purpose; (2) are not warranted by
existing law or by nonfrivolous argument for the extension, modification, or
reversal of existing law or the establishment of new law and thus legally
frivolous and (3) the allegations and other factual contentions asserted by Plaintiff
have no evidentiary support and are not likely to have evidentiary support
after further investigation and discovery. The motion is entirely based on the
contention that, after the incident, an email was sent by Plaintiff to
Defendant stating that Defendant was not at fault for the incident. 
 
First, Plaintiff argues that
the instant motion is an untimely motion to strike pursuant to CCP § 435.
However, Defendant did not mention or reference CCP § 435 at all and the
instant motion was only noticed as a motion for sanctions under CCP § 128.7. In
addition, the motion did not necessarily combine another motion because a
motion to strike the offensive pleading and monetary sanctions are the type of
sanctions contemplated under CCP § 128.7. If a responsive pleading to the
Complaint had not been timely filed as Plaintiff suggests, Plaintiff could have
taken the appropriate steps to request Defendant’s default, but apparently did
not do so.
 
The Court finds that Defendant
has not established that the Complaint was filed primarily for an improper
purpose, such as to harass or to cause unnecessary delay or needless increase
in the cost of litigation. CCP § 128.7(b)(1). Also, Defendant has not demonstrated
that the claims, and other legal contentions stated in the Complaint are not warranted
by existing law or by a nonfrivolous argument for the extension, modification,
or reversal of existing law or the establishment of new law. CCP § 128.7(b)(2).
In addition, the Court finds Defendant has not established that Plaintiff filed
and maintained the Complaint without a showing that the factual contentions
have evidentiary support, or that the factual contentions are likely to have
evidentiary support.  CCP § 128.7(b)(3). 
 
An email purportedly sent by
Plaintiff to Defendant after the incident stated the following: “Unfortunately,
(sic) no fault of your driver, the driver who picked my son and I up from LAX
on February 24 witnessed a HORRIBLE fall I had in the parking deck of LAX when
the wheelchair operator failed to lift one of the flaps on the wheelchair as I
disembarked thus causing my foot to get entangled and for me to fall, full
weight, onto the concrete while totally twisting my foot underneath me.”
(Defendant’s Ex. B.) 
 
Plaintiff’s potential
belief, at the time, that the driver was not at fault is not a definitive and
absolute showing of no liability. Plaintiff is entitled to conduct further
investigation and discovery to determine if the driver or any other agents or
employees of Defendant was at fault for the incident in any manner. In fact,
the referenced email appears to indicate the possibility that there may be a
potential basis for liability since later in the email Plaintiff states that
the driver was not in a position to catch Plaintiff when she fell. Thus, that
statement itself indicates a potential breach of the duty of care. 
 
Defendant cannot reasonably
believe that a mere conclusory unsworn statement by Plaintiff, which
essentially sets forth a legal conclusion of no liability without any factual
and evidentiary inquiry, provides an absolute defense at this stage in the
litigation. For example, certainly, Plaintiff could have had no knowledge or
evidence at the time of any facts regarding negligent training or supervision. Conversely,
hypothetically speaking, certainly, had a lay witness set forth a legal
conclusion of fault against Defendant through an unsworn email, at trial, with
no underlying evidence, Defendant would have likely imposed an objection. In
such a scenario, at a minimum, Defendant would have wanted the opportunity to
conduct discovery and receive responses such as deposition testimony sworn
under the penalty of perjury. To utilize another hypothetical example, presume
that an email from the Defendant’s driver been sent to Plaintiff apologizing stating
that it was his fault for not catching Plaintiff before she fell, and Plaintiff
moved for sanctions under CCP § 128.7 to strike Defendant’s Answer and for
monetary sanctions of $4,335.00. The Court anticipates that Defendant would
probably have vigorously opposed such a motion arguing that Defendant should be
entitled to conduct discovery, obtain sworn testimony of all necessary
witnesses, and that this stray unsworn comment could not form the basis for
absolute liability.
 
Therefore, the Court finds
that Plaintiff did not violate Section 128.7 by filing and maintaining the Complaint.
Defendant’s Motion for Sanctions is denied. 
 
Plaintiff is ordered to give
notice of this ruling.