 Case Number:  24STCV10839    Hearing Date:   October 17, 2024    Dept:  31 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Kerry Bensinger, Department 31
 
 
HEARING DATE:     October
17, 2024                               TRIAL DATE:  Not set
                                                           
CASE:                         Govind R.
Vaghashia, et al. v. Enenstein, Pham, Glass & Rabbat LLP
 
CASE NO.:                 24STCV10839
 





















 
MOTION
FOR STAY OF PROCEEDINGS



 
MOVING PARTY:               Plaintiffs
Govind R. Vaghashia, et al.
 
RESPONDING PARTY:     Defendant
Enestein, Pham, Glass & Rabbat LLP
 
 
I.          INTRODUCTION
 
            In 2017, a
dispute arose between brothers Govind Vaghashia (Govind) and Prashant Vaghashia
(Prashant) regarding the Vaghashia family businesses, which includes Atmaswaroop
Investments LLC, Five Stars Hospitality LLC, Sherman Oaks First Plaza LLC, Oak
Park First Plaza LLC, Bellflower First Plaza LLC, Graphic RSCH Properties, LLC
(f/k/a Graphic Research, LLC), and VBANKS Management Inc. (collectively, Vaghashia
Family Businesses).  In 2018, Govind retained
Enenstein, Pham, Glass & Rabbat LLP (Enenstein) to litigate against Prashant
in the case titled Vaghashia v. Vaghashia, Los Angeles County Superior
Court Case No. BC696133 (the Underlying Action).  Govind and the Vaghshashia Family Businesses (collectively,
the Govind Parties) were eventually added as parties to the Underlying
Action.  
 
The Underlying Action, which included cross-actions, related
and consolidated actions in state and federal court, proceeded to trial.  After the initial phase of trial Govind agreed
to settle the case.  The settlement document
contained various errors including but not limited to imposing unquantifiable
obligations on the Govind Parties and setting forth gift and personal injury allocations
of the settlement payments which violated federal and state tax law.  Despite containing these terms, Enenstein
advised Govind to sign the settlement.  Moreover,
the settlement that Enenstein advised Govind to sign differed substantively
from prior drafts.  In 2022, Enenstein
was substituted out as counsel of record. 
In all, Govind incurred approximately $7 million in attorney fees during
Enenstein’s representation.  
 
On January 3, 2023, the Govind parties filed a motion to
vacate and/or set aside the settlement agreement in the Underlying Action. The
court denied the motion on April 25, 2023. The Govind Parties sought
reconsideration of the order, which was also denied. The Govind Parties
appealed the April 25, 2023, order denying the motion to vacate or set aside
the settlement agreement.  Oral argument is
scheduled for October 24, 2024 in the Second District Court of Appeal.  
 
The parties agreed to toll the Govind Parties potential
legal malpractice claims.  However,
Enenestein declined to toll beyond April 30, 2024.  As such, on April 30, 2024, the Govind
Parties filed a legal malpractice action against Enenstein. 
 
On September 13, 2024, the Govind Parties filed this Motion
for Stay of Proceedings pending resolution of the appeal.
 
On October 4, 2024, Enenstein filed an opposition.
 
On October 10, 2024, the Govind Parties replied. 
 
II.        LEGAL STANDARD 
 
            The court
has “the inherent power to stay proceedings in the interests of justice and to
promote judicial efficiency.”  (Freiberg v. City of Mission Viejo
(1995) 33 Cal.App.4th 1484, 1489; Code Civ. Proc., § 128, subd. (a).)  The
California Supreme Court has recognized that “trial courts have inherent
authority to stay malpractice suits, holding them in abeyance pending
resolution of underlying litigation.”  (Adams
v. Paul (1995) 11 Cal.4th 583, 593.)
 
III.      JUDICIAL
NOTICE
 
            The Govind Parties request judicial notice of the
following documents: 
 
1.     
The complaint filed in this case. 
2.     
Excerpts of their opening brief in
Vaghashia v. Vaghashia, Second District Court of Appeal, Division 8, Case No.
B331073.  
 
            Enenstein
requests judicial notice of the following documents: 
 
1.     
Cross-Defendants’ Motion for
Mistrial in Govind Vaghashia v. Prashant Vaghashia, et al., Los Angeles
Superior Court, Case No. BC696133.
2.     
Plaintiffs and Cross-Defendants
Govind Vaghashia and Sonal Vaghashia’s Motion to Enforce the Settlement
Agreement Under C.C.P 664.6 RE: Dismissal of Complaint with Prejudice and Other
Provisions in Govind Vaghashia v. Prashant Vaghashia, et al., Los Angeles
Superior Court, Case No. BC696133.
3.     
“Declaration of Hari S. Lal, Esq.
Plaintiffs Govind Vaghashia and Sonal Vaghashia’s Notice of Motion and Motion
to Enforce Settlement Agreement Under C.C.P 664.6 And Breach of Agreement by
Defendant” in Govind Vaghashia v. Prashant Vaghashia, et al., Los Angeles
Superior Court, Case No. BC696133 (exhibits to this document omitted).
4.     
Govind Parties’ Notice of Motion and
Motion to Vacate and/or Set Aside Settlement in Govind Vaghashia v. Prashant
Vaghashia, et al., Los Angeles Superior Court, Case No. BC696133.
5.     
Opposition of Prashant and Mita
Vaghashia to Motion to Vacate and/or Set Aside Settlement (exhibits to this
document omitted).
6.     
Docket of Court of Appeal in
Vaghashia v. Vaghashia bearing Case No. B331073.
7.     
Dockets of Court of Appeal for All
Appeals taken from Govind Vaghashia v. Prashant Vaghashia, et al., Los Angeles
Superior Court, Case No. BC696133.
8.     
Meet and Confer Email dated
September 11, 2024 from Tim Harris to Joshua R. Furman.
9.     
Letter dated September 12, 2024 with
Petition to Arbitrate Fee Dispute – Govind Vaghashia v. EPG, submitted to
Orange County Bar Association (exhibits omitted).
 
The Govind Parties’ request and Enenstein’s request nos. 1-7
are GRANTED.  (Evid. Code, § 452, subd.
(d)(1).)  The court however does not take
judicial notice of the truth of hearsay statements in the court files,
including pleadings, affidavits, testimony, or statements of fact.  (See Aixtron, Inc. v. Veeco Instruments
Inc. (2020) 52 Cal.App.5th 360, 382, citing Williams v. Wraxall
(1995) 33 Cal.App.4th 120, 130, fn. 7.) 
 
Enenstein’s request nos. 8 and 9 are DENIED.  Correspondence between counsel is not the
proper subject of judicial notice.
 
IV.       DISCUSSION
 
            Govind
Parties move for an order staying this action, arguing that until the Court of
Appeal decides whether the motion to vacate or set aside the settlement
agreement was properly decided, the Govind Parties’ damages cannot properly be
evaluated.  Further, if the Court of
Appeal decides in Govind Parties’ favor, the Govind Parties may decide to not
pursue their legal malpractice claim against Enenstein.  
 
            Enenstein
opposes on two grounds.  First, Enenstein
argues that the Govind Parties delayed in filing this action for over two years
which has prejudiced Enenstein by the loss of evidence.  Second, the appeal will not modify the need
for the discovery Enenstein seeks.  For
instance, Govind has paid approximately $3.5 million pursuant to the settlement
agreement which Govind will seek to recover from Enenstein regardless of the
Court of Appeal’s decision.   For these
reasons, Enenstein contends a stay of this case should be denied.
 
            Enenstein’s
argument regarding delay is not persuasive. 
Enenstein makes vague references to the loss of evidence, including the
death of Govind’s brother (who is not identified) and fading memories, but does
not demonstrate how the information that Govind’s brother possessed is relevant
to the claims in this action.  The
specter of fading memories is likewise undeveloped.   Moreover, the time for stay will not be
long, given the upcoming oral argument date. 
As to the $3.5 million, if the Court of Appeal sets aside the settlement
agreement, any sums paid pursuant to that agreement will likely be
returned.  Moreover, Enenstein fails to
address the principal issue raised by the motion: the Court of Appeal’s pending
decision is determinative of the Govind Parties’ damages, if any, in this
action.  
 
Based on the foregoing, the court finds a stay of
proceedings is appropriate. The Court of Appeal’s decision will clarify the
issues in this case, and perhaps, it will determine whether Govind Parties
proceed with this case at all.   A stay
will serve the interests of justice by preventing potentially unnecessary
litigation.
                        
IV.       CONCLUSION
 
            The motion
to stay is GRANTED.  This action is
stayed pending resolution of the appeal in the Underlying Action.  
 
The court sets a Status Conference re: Appeal for January 14,
2025 at 9:00 a.m.  Govind Parties are to
file an update of the status of the appeal within 5 court days of the Court of
Appeal’s decision. 
 
Moving party to give notice. 

 
Dated:   October 17,
2024                                




 


   




 


  Kerry Bensinger  
  Judge of the Superior Court 




 