 Case Number:  24STCV15898    Hearing Date:   October 17, 2024    Dept:  31 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Kerry Bensinger, Department 31
 
 
HEARING DATE:     October
17, 2024                               TRIAL
DATE:  Not set
                                                           
CASE:                         Henry Bell v. KKW Trucking, Inc.
 
CASE NO.:                 24STCV15898
 





















 
DEMURRER
WITH MOTION TO STRIKE



 
MOVING PARTY:               Defendant
KKW Trucking Inc.
 
RESPONDING PARTY:     Plaintiff Henry
Bell
 
 
I.          BACKGROUND
 
            This is a Fair
Employment and Housing Act (FEHA) action. On June 25, 2024, plaintiff Henry
Bell (Bell or Plaintiff) filed a Complaint against his former employer defendant
KKW Trucking, Inc. (KKW) alleging causes of action for (1) disability
discrimination in violation of the FEHA, (2) failure to provide reasonable accommodations
in violation of the FEHA, (3) failure to engage in a good faith interactive
process in violation of the FEHA, (4) retaliation in violation of FEHA, (5)
failure to prevent discrimination and retaliation in violation of the FEHA, and
(6) wrongful termination in violation of public policy.  
 
On August 1, 2024, KKW filed a demurrer to the second and
third causes of action and concurrently filed a motion to strike punitive
damages allegations from the Complaint.
 
On October 4, 2024, Bell filed oppositions.
 
On October 10, 2024, KKW filed replies.  
 
II.        DISCUSSION RE DEMURRER
A.   
Legal Standard     
A demurrer for sufficiency tests
whether the complaint states a cause of action.¿ (Hahn v. Mirda (2007)
147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747.)¿ When considering demurrers, courts read the
allegations liberally and in context, accepting the alleged facts as true.¿ (Nolte
v. Cedars-Sinai Medical Center (2015) 236 Cal.App.4th 1401, 1406.)¿
“Because a demurrer challenges defects on the face of the complaint, it can
only refer to matters outside the pleading that are subject to judicial
notice.”¿ (Arce ex rel. Arce v. Kaiser Found. Health Plan, Inc. (2010)
181 Cal.App.4th 471, 556.)¿ 
B.    
Application 
 
KKW demurs to the second and third causes of action in the Complaint.  The court addresses each in turn.   
 
1.     
Failure to
Provide Reasonable Accommodation (2nd
Cause of Action)
 
The second cause of action is based on the following
allegations.  Bell was employed by
KKW.  On July 20, 2023, Bell was injured
while working.  Bell informed his
supervisor Susan (last name unknown) of his injury and provided a doctor’s note
for reasonable accommodations in the form of a medical leave of absence.  Bell took the medical leave until November
21, 2023.  During the leave period, Bell
updated Susan regarding the status of his medical condition.  On November 21, 2023, Bell notified Susan he
was ready to return to work without restrictions via text but did not receive a
response.  On November 22, 2023, Bell
contacted KKW’s safety department.  The
safety department received a letter from Bell’s doctor releasing Bell from medical
care.  Bell was instructed to await a
call from his manager to obtain details about his return to work.  (Complaint, ¶¶ 13-16.)
 
On December 4, 2023, Bell received a voicemail from his
manager Will (last name unknown) regarding Bell’s return to work.  Bell returned Will’s call on December 4 and
6, 2023 but did not receive a response.  (Complaint,
¶¶ 17-18.)    
 
On December 8, 2023, Plaintiff spoke with Will.  During the conversation, Will informed Bell
of company policy requiring employees to contact their employer within three
days of being released from care.  Will
stated Plaintiff did not call or leave a voicemail in within three days of
being release from care.  Despite
explaining to Will that he did reach out to Susan on the day of his release and
that he did contact the safety department the following day, Will terminated
Plaintiff’s employment.  (Complaint, ¶¶ 19-20.)   
 
KKW demurs to the failure to accommodate claim on the
grounds Plaintiff was provided with the requested reasonable
accommodation.  The court agrees.  “There are three elements to a failure to
accommodate action: ‘(1) the plaintiff has a disability covered by the FEHA;
(2) the plaintiff is a qualified individual (i.e., he or she can perform the
essential functions of the position); and (3) the employer failed to reasonably
accommodate the plaintiff’s disability.”¿ (CACI No. 2541; Hernandez v.
Rancho Santiago Cmty. College Dist. (2018) 22 Cal.App.5th 1187,
1193-1194.) 
 
Here, Plaintiff requested a medical leave of absence and KKW
granted that request.  (See Complaint, ¶
13.)  Plaintiff does not allege that he
had a known disability, which needed to be accommodated, when he was ready to
return to work.  Indeed, Plaintiff
informed Susan he was ready to return to work without restrictions.  KKW was also separately informed by
Plaintiff’s doctor that Plaintiff was being released from care. (See Complaint,
¶¶ 15-16.)  The allegations make clear
Plaintiff no longer had a disability when he informed KKW of his readiness to
return to work on November 21, 2023.  For
this reason, Plaintiff’s argument that KKW, as the employer, had an affirmative
duty to make reasonable accommodations for known physical disabilities does not
pass muster.  Under these facts, KKW is
not liable for failing to accommodate Plaintiff when (1) he was given a medical
leave of absence as a reasonable accommodation, and (2) at the conclusion of
his leave, all the facts suggested Plaintiff no longer had a disability to
reasonably accommodate.   
 
Accordingly, the demurrer to the second cause of action is
SUSTAINED.  
 
2.     
Failure to
Engage in Good Faith Interactive Process (3rd
Cause of Action)
 
The third cause of action is based on the same allegations
described above.  Plaintiff suffered an
injury, requested an accommodation, received the accommodation in the form of
medical leave, and KKW was later informed by Plaintiff and Plaintiff’s doctor
he was being released from medical care and was ready to return to work.  However, Plaintiff was terminated by his
manager for purportedly failing to observe company policy requiring an employee
to contact KKW within three days of being released from medical care.  (Complaint,
¶¶ 13-20.)
 
KKW argues the third cause of action fails for the same
reason as Plaintiff’s failure to accommodate claim: Plaintiff was provided the
requested accommodation.  The court
agrees the third cause of action fails on the same grounds.
 
FEHA requires employers to engage in a good faith
interactive process to determine effective reasonable accommodations, if any,
“in response to a request for reasonable accommodation by an employee . . .
with a known physical or mental disability . . . .”¿ (Gov. Code, § 12940, subd.
(n); Raine v. City of Burbank (2006) 135 Cal.App.4th 1215, 1222.)¿ To
establish a claim for failure to engage in the interactive process, a plaintiff
must show: (1) defendant was an employer; (2) plaintiff was defendant’s employee;
(3) plaintiff was disabled; (4) plaintiff requested reasonable accommodation;
(5) plaintiff was willing to participate in a timely good faith interactive
process with plaintiff to determine whether a reasonable accommodation could be
made; (6) defendant failed to participate in this process; (7) plaintiff was
harmed; and (8) defendant’s failure to engage in a good-faith interactive
process was a substantial factor in causing plaintiff’s harm.¿ (CACI No.
2546.)¿¿¿ 
 
 As discussed above, the Complaint makes clear
Plaintiff was given medical leave as a reasonable accommodation, was later released
from medical care, and was ready to return to work without work
restrictions.  In other words, Plaintiff
no longer had a disability which required a reasonable accommodation.   The
third and fourth elements of this claim are not satisfied.  
 
Plaintiff argues KKW failed to engage in a meaningful good
faith interactive process both during Plaintiff’s medical leave of absence and
after he was cleared to return to work. 
Further, despite being medically cleared, KKW refused to reinstate
Plaintiff and effectively, and wrongfully, terminated his employment under the
guise of an extended leave.  The point
being, KKW had an affirmative duty to inquire into the status of Plaintiff’s
disability.  However, Plaintiff’s very
own allegations reveal the defects of the claim.  Plaintiff fails to contend with the factual
allegation that he was given the requested accommodation.  Plaintiff then signaled to KKW he was ready
to return to work without restriction on November 21, 2023.  Plaintiff does not provide any authority to
show “without restrictions” means anything other than an absence of disability.
Nor does Plaintiff provide any authority that an employer is required to engage
in a good faith interactive process where there is no evidence of a known
disability.  
    
Accordingly, the demurrer to the third cause of action is
SUSTAINED.  
 
C.    
Conclusion
 
The demurrer is Sustained. 
Given the allegations, leave to amendment would be futile.  Leave to amend is DENIED. 
 
III.        DISCUSSION RE MOTION TO STRIKE
 
A.    Legal Standard
            
Any party, within the time allowed to respond to a
pleading, may serve and file a motion to strike the whole pleading or any part
thereof.¿ (Code Civ. Proc., § 435, subd. (b)(1); Cal. Rules of Court, rule
3.1322, subd. (b).)¿ On a motion to strike, the court may: (1) strike out any
irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted in any pleading; or (2) strike
out all or any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity with the
laws of California, a court rule, or an order of the court.¿ (Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 436, subds. (a)-(b); Stafford v. Shultz (1954) 42 Cal.2d 767, 782.)¿¿ 
 
“The grounds for a motion to strike are limited to matters
appearing on the face of the challenged pleading or matters which must or may
be judicially noticed. (§ 437, subd. (a); Evid. Code, §§ 451, 452.).” (Garcia
v. Sterling (1985) 176 Cal.App.3d 17, 20.)¿ 
 
B.     Application
 
KKW seeks to strike punitive damages allegations from the
Complaint.  The allegations appear in
support of each cause of action and in the prayer of the Complaint.  Because the court has sustained the demurrer
to the second and third causes of action, the motion to strike is moot as to
those claims.  The court proceeds to
consider the motion to strike to the remaining allegations. 
 
KKW argues the punitive damages allegations should be
stricken because they are conclusory and unsupported by any specific
allegations.  
 
 A motion to strike
punitive damages is properly granted where a plaintiff does not state a prima
facie claim for punitive damages, including allegations that defendant is
guilty of oppression, fraud or malice.  (Turman v. Turning Point of
Cent. California, Inc. (2010) 191 Cal.App.4th 53, 63.)  “Mere
negligence, even gross negligence, is not sufficient to justify such an award”
for punitive damages.  (Kendall Yacht Corp. v. United California Bank (1975)
50 Cal.App.3d 949, 958.)  The allegations supporting a request for
punitive damages must be alleged with specificity; conclusory allegations
without sufficient facts are not enough. 
(Smith v. Superior Court (1992) 10 Cal.App.4th 1033,
1041-1042.) 
 
Here, the Complaint alleges the following boilerplate
language:
 
Plaintiff
is informed and believes, and thereon alleges that the employees, officers,
directors, and/or managing agents of Defendant acted with malice and oppression
as their unlawful acts were carried out with full knowledge of the extreme risk
of injury involved and with willful and conscious disregard for Plaintiff’s
rights. They also acted fraudulently, as they willfully concealed the fact that
Plaintiff’s employment rights were being violated, with the intent to deprive
him of employment benefits. Accordingly, an award of punitive damages is
warranted. 
 
Plaintiff
is informed and believes, and thereon alleges that the actions of Defendant’s
employees, officers, directors, and/or managing agents were undertaken with the
prior approval, consent, and authorization of Defendant and was subsequently
authorized and ratified by them as well by and through its officers, directors,
and/or managing agents.
 
(See Complaint, ¶¶ 31, 32, 65, 66, 77, 78, 89, 90, and
Prayer for Relief.)  The Complaint is
factually deficient. 
 
            Plaintiff
argues there are sufficient facts to raise a reasonable inference in support of
punitive damages.  Specifically,
Plaintiff notified KKW of his disability and updated Susan of the status of his
disability.  Plaintiff’s termination occurred
two weeks after stating he was ready to return to work.  Based on these facts, Plaintiff contends it
is reasonable to infer KKW acted with malice or conscious disregard by
terminating him because of his disability and his right to medical leave and
reinstatement.  
 
            Here, Plaintiff
seeks punitive damages against a corporate employer.  “An employer shall not be liable for damages
pursuant to subdivision (a), based upon acts of an employee of the employer,
unless the employer had advance knowledge of the unfitness of the employee and
employed him or her with a conscious disregard of the rights or safety of
others or authorized or ratified the wrongful conduct for which the damages are
awarded or was personally guilty of oppression, fraud, or malice. With respect
to a corporate employer, the advance knowledge and conscious disregard,
authorization, ratification or act of oppression, fraud, or malice must be on
the part of an officer, director, or managing agent of the corporation.”¿ (Civ.
Code, § 3294, subd. (b).)¿¿¿¿On this point, the Complaint is deficient.  There are no factual allegations to hold KKW,
as a corporate employer, liable for punitive damages.  
 
C.     Conclusion 
 
The motion to strike is GRANTED.  Leave to amend is DENIED without
prejudice.  Plaintiff may seek leave to
amend the complaint if additional facts are learned during discovery to support
the request for punitive damages.   
 
IV.       DISPOSITIONS
 
The demurrer is Sustained. 
Leave to amend is Denied. 
 
The motion to strike is Granted. Leave to amend is Denied
Without Prejudice.  Plaintiff may seek
leave to amend the Complaint to add punitive damages requests if Plaintiff
learns in discovery of facts supporting the request.
 
Defendant to give notice. 

 
 
Dated:   October 17,
2024                                         




 


   




 


  Kerry Bensinger  
  Judge of the Superior Court 




 
            