 Case Number:  21STCV45000    Hearing Date:   November 30, 2023    Dept:  31 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA  FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT  RAIEL ZEWENGEL, Plaintiff(s), vs.  GT'S LIVING FOODS, LLC, ET AL.,  Defendant(s). ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) Case No.: 21STCV45000  [TENTATIVE] ORDER DENYING MOTION FOR PROTECTIVE ORDER  Dept. 31 1:30 p.m. November 30, 2023  I. Background Plaintiff, Raiel Zewengel (“Plaintiffs”) filed this action against Defendants GT'S Living Foods, LLC, et al. for damages arising from an automobile incident.  At this time, Defendant Christian Jonathan Mejia (“Mejia”) moves for a Protective Order from having to provide responses to propounded written discovery on the grounds that Mejia is homeless and has not had an opportunity to meet with his counsel of record. The motion is unopposed.  II. Motion for Protective Order Meet and Confer CCP § 2030.090(a) provides, “When interrogatories have been propounded, the responding party, and any other party or affected natural person or organization may promptly move for a protective order. This motion shall be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration under Section 2016.040.” “When requests for admission have been made, the responding party may promptly move for a protective order. This motion shall be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration under Section 2016.040.” (CCP § 2033.080(a).) Similarly, CCP § 2031.060(a) states, “When an inspection, copying, testing, or sampling of documents, tangible things, places, or electronically stored information has been demanded, the party to whom the demand has been directed, and any other party or affected person, may promptly move for a protective order. This motion shall be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration under Section 2016.040.” In this case, Mejia, through counsel, asserts they attempted to meet and confer with Plaintiff’s counsel. Mejia’s counsel contends that they discussed difficulties in locating Mejia with Plaintiff’s counsel, and Plaintiff’s counsel extended the deadline to provide responses to September 14, 2023. The Court finds this is sufficient to satisfy CCP § 2016.040.    Discussion Pursuant to CCP §§ 2030.090(b) and 2031.060(b), “The court, for good cause shown, may make any order that justice requires to protect any party or other natural person or organization from unwarranted annoyance, embarrassment, or oppression, or undue burden and expense.” This protective order may include, but is not limited to, a direction that the set of interrogatories, set of admission requests, and demand need not be produced or made available at all. (CCP §§ 2030.090(b)(1), 2031.060(b)(1), and 2033.080(b)(1).) Here, Mejia’s counsel contends they have attempted to locate Mejia since August 2023, and that counsel was able to speak to Mejia once, wherein Mejia stated he had never received any of Plaintiff’s discovery requests sent to him in February 2023. Plaintiff’s counsel served Mejia directly, prior to Mejia being assigned defense counsel, written discovery on February 16, 2023. Defense counsel filed an Answer on behalf of Mejia on July 19, 2023, and were unaware of the propounded written discovery until Plaintiff’s counsel email on July 25, 2023. After meeting and conferring, Plaintiff’s counsel granted Mejia’s counsel an extension until September 7, 2023 to respond to discovery.  Mejia’s counsel avers Mejia has not lived at the Good Seed shelter for years, but that he does sometimes collects mail that arrives for him at Good Seed CDC at 2814 West Martin Luther King Jr. Blvd., Los Angeles, CA 90008. Plaintiff’s discovery to Mejia was served at 2814 W. Martin Luther King Jr. Blvd., Los Angeles, California. As Mejia’s counsel concedes, Good Seed CDC allows transients to use its mailing address to receive mail, and it appears that Mejia is able to obtain mail at this Good Seed shelter. Furthermore, as defense counsel already established contact with Mejia once and presumably discussed the matter with him, the Court can only conclude that Mejia is aware that he has counsel, and aware of this pending lawsuit against him. Counsel for Mejia has not demonstrated good cause for a protective order that Mejia need not respond to written discovery until Mejia’s counsel is able to locate and obtain Mejia’s cooperation, or until defense counsel is able to secure a settlement with Plaintiff’s counsel. While the Court understands there may be difficulties here, Mejia’s decision on when, if ever, he decides to cooperate with the litigation process is not good cause for a protective order to prevent Plaintiff from obtaining discovery.   Based on the foregoing, the motion is DENIED.  Moving Defendant is ordered to give notice.   PLEASE TAKE NOTICE: Parties are encouraged to meet and confer after reading this tentative ruling to see if they can reach an agreement. If a party intends to submit on this tentative ruling,¿the party must send an email to the court at¿sscdept31@lacourt.org¿with the Subject line “SUBMIT” followed by the case number.¿ The body of the email must include the hearing date and time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the party submitting.¿¿ Unless¿all¿parties submit by email to this tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or in person for oral argument.¿ You should assume that others may appear at the hearing to argue.¿¿ If the parties neither submit nor appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.¿ After the Court has issued a tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion without leave.¿  Dated this 29th day of November 2023      Hon. Michelle C. Kim Judge of the Superior Court    