  Case Number:  23PSCP00526    Hearing Date:   May 15, 2024    Dept:  G Defendant Statney Lattin Jr.’s Motion to Vacate
Judgment on Sister-State Judgment
Respondent: Plaintiff Grand
Capital
TENTATIVE RULING
Defendant Statney Lattin Jr.’s Motion to Vacate
Judgment on Sister-State Judgment is DENIED.
BACKGROUND
On December 4, 2023,
Plaintiff Grand Capital filed an application for entry of judgment on
sister-state judgment against Defendants People Onesource Inc. (People
Onesource), Convenant Industries, Inc. (Convenant Industries), and Statney
Lattin Jr. Grand Capital’s application is based on a judgment by confession
entered by the New York Supreme Court against People Onesource, Convenant
Industries, and Lattin in April 2017.
On February 23, 2024, Lattin
filed the present motion. A hearing on the present motion is set for May 15,
2024.
ANALYSIS
Lattin
moves to vacate the entry of the New York Supreme Court’s judgment by
confession. For the following reasons, the Court DENIES Lattin’s motion without
prejudice.
Rule
3.1112, subdivision (a) of the California Rules of Court requires a motion to
include (1) a notice of hearing, (2) the motion, and (3) a supporting
memorandum. If a party fails to include a supporting memorandum, “[t]he court
may construe the absence of a memorandum as an admission that the motion or
special demurrer is not meritorious and cause for its denial and, in the case
of a demurrer, as a waiver of all grounds not supported.” (Cal. Rules of Court,
Rule 3.1113, subd. (a).)
In
this case, while Lattin filed a notice of motion, Lattin failed to include any
memorandum in support of Lattin’s motion. Because a memorandum was required as
this motion is not exempt pursuant to Rule 3.1114, subdivision (a) of the
California Rules of Court, the Court finds Lattin’s motion is without merit.
Accordingly,
Lattin’s motion is DENIED without prejudice.
CONCLUSION
Based on the foregoing, Lattin’s
motion to vacate the sister-state judgment is DENIED without prejudice.