 Case Number:  23PSCV03340    Hearing Date:   May 15, 2024    Dept:  G Defendant Kyle Dou’s Motion to Set Aside Default  Judgment and Motion for Order to Vacate Default Judgment Respondent: NO OPPOSITION TENTATIVE RULING Defendant Kyle Dou’s Motion to Set Aside Default  Judgment and Motion for Order to Vacate Default Judgment is GRANTED. The Proposed Answer attached to Defendant Kyle Dou’s Declaration  is to be filed separately forthwith. BACKGROUND This  is an action for breach of contract arising from a stock purchase agreement. In  June 2023, Plaintiffs Zenith Technology Inc. (Zenith) and Zhaohui Wang entered  into a written agreement with Defendant Kyle Dou in which Zenith purchased  38,250 common stock shares from Dou’s company, Hixih Rubber Industry Group,  Ltd. (Hixih). In exchange, Zenith agreed to pay $500,000 in cash, assume  $230,000 in outstanding debt owed by Hixih, and issue 3,187,541 shares of  Zenith’s stock to Dou. Subsequently, Zenith and Wang allege they discovered  Hixih owed additional debts that were not disclosed. They also allege they  discovered that Dou had used company funds to go on vacations and purchase an  expensive watch. On  October 27, 2023, Zenith and Wang filed a complaint against Dou and Does 1-20,  alleging the following causes of action: (1) breach of contract, (2)  conversion, (3) unfair business practices, (4) breach of the implied covenant  of good faith and fair dealing, and (5) unjust enrichment. On November 14, 2023,  Zenith and Wang’s process server served Dou with substitute service in Los  Angeles. After Dou  failed to file a timely response, the Court entered default against Dou on  January 3, 2024. On January 11, 2024, Dou filed a demurrer to Zenith and Wang’s  Complaint. On February 13, 2024, the Court struck Dou’s demurrer and placed it  off calendar due to Dou being in default. On April  22, 2024, Dou filed the present motion. A hearing on the present motion is set  for May 15, 2024, along with an OSC Re: Default Judgment and OSC Re: Sanctions  for Plaintiff’s Failure to Appear. ANALYSIS Dou  seeks to set aside the entry of default on the grounds of mistake,  inadvertence, surprise, or excusable neglect. For the following reasons, the Court  GRANTS  Dou’s  motion. Legal Standard Whenever  an application for relief from default judgment is made no more than six months  after entry of judgment, is in proper form, and is accompanied by the moving  party’s sworn affidavit attesting to his or her mistake, inadvertence,  surprise, or excusable neglect, the court may vacate any (1) resulting default  entered by the clerk against the moving party or (2) resulting default judgment  or dismissal entered against the moving party, unless the court finds that the  default or dismissal was not in fact caused by the moving party’s mistake,  inadvertence, surprise, or excusable neglect. (Code Civ. Proc., §473, subd.  (b).) “The six-month time limit for granting statutory relief is jurisdictional  and the court may not consider a motion for relief made after that period has  elapsed.” (Manson, Iver & York v. Black (2009) 176 Cal.App.4th 36,  42 (Manson).) That “six-month period runs from entry of default, not  entry of judgment.” (Id.) Courts  liberally grant motions to vacate default judgments when relief is promptly  sought and the opposing party is not prejudiced as the law strongly favors  resolution on the merits. (Kramer v. Traditional Escrow, Inc. (2020) 56  Cal.App.5th 13, 28.) Courts only require “slight evidence” to support vacating  a default and resolve all doubts in favor of the party seeking relief. (Ibid.)  However, “[t]he only occasion for the application of section 473 is where a  party is unexpectedly placed in a situation to his injury without fault or  negligence of his own and against which ordinary prudence could not have  guarded.” (Hearn v. Howard (2009) 177 Cal.App.4th 1193, 1206, quoting Elms  v. Elms (1946) 72 Cal.App.2d 508, 513.) Discussion In  this case, Dou claims Dou attempted to demur to the Complaint but was unable to  do so in a timely manner because Dou’s original demurrer was rejected due to an  insufficient filing fee. (Dou Decl., ¶ 2.) But Dou does not state when Dou  submitted the original demurrer. Nor does Dou provide any evidence to support Dou’s  claim that the original demurrer was rejected by the Court due to insufficient  filing fees. Nonetheless,  the Court notes Dou attempted to file a responsive pleading within eight days  of the entry of default and timely filed the present motion. Thus, in  considering the well-established precedent for resolving cases on the merits,  the Court exercises its discretion to GRANT Dou’s request to vacate the entry of default. CONCLUSION Based on the foregoing, Dou’s motion to set aside default is GRANTED. The proposed answer attached to Dou’s declaration is to be filed separately forthwith.