 Case Number:  21STCV35634    Hearing Date:   February 21, 2024    Dept:  39 Fredy Wembe v.
Target Stores, Inc., et al.
Case No.
21STCV35634
Plaintiff’s Ex
Parte Application
 
            Plaintiff
Fredy Wembe (“Plaintiff”) filed this employment action against Defendants
Target Corporation and Manuel Quijada (collectively, “Defendants”).  Now, Plaintiff seeks contact information for the
following witnesses: (1) Hillary Olsen, who played a role in the decision to
terminate Plaintiff; (2) Fidel Vivas, who “is a percipient witness to
communications regarding Plaintiff’s termination in documents produced by
Defendant;” (3) Guillermo Escareno, Plaintiff’s former manager; and (4) Joshua
Portillo, a former employee who was present at Plaintiff’s meeting with Carina
Mercedes Sanz.  
 
            After
Plaintiff’s counsel filed this ex parte application, the Court issued an order
granting her motion to compel further responses in part.  The Court ordered as follows, among other
things:  
 
            1.         SROG #50 seeks contact information for
Guillermo Escareno.  Since Escareno may
be a percipient witness, Plaintiff is entitled to take his deposition.  Therefore, Defendant shall produce his
contact information unless Defendant’s counsel agrees to accept service of any
subpoenas on his behalf.  Defendant’s
counsel shall inform Plaintiff’s counsel whether she will accept service or shall
produce his last known contact information within twenty (20) days.  
 
2.         Plaintiff
seeks the name and contact information of every individual who worked at
Plaintiff’s worksite from the time period of January 1, 2021, to March 1,
2024.  That is approximately 452
employees.  As such, the request is
overbroad and unduly burdensome.  The
Court’s ruling on the motion as it relates to SROG #59 provides the information
to which Plaintiff is entitled.  Therefore,
Plaintiff’s motion is denied.   
 
3.         Plaintiff
seeks the names and contact information of every individual who worked on the
same shift as Plaintiff from January 1, 2021, to March 4, 2021.  This request is overbroad, as the relevant
issue is whether any employees observed Plaintiff’s alleged outburst on
February 15/16, 2021.  Therefore, the
motion is denied except with respect to the following: (1) Target shall produce
the names of the team members who worked under Carina Sanz on the same shift as
Plaintiff on February 15/16, 2021; and (2) Target shall produce the team
members’ last known contact information unless Defendant’s counsel agrees to
accept service on their behalf.  This
information shall be provided within twenty (20) days.    
 
The Court now adopts the same
approach to this issue.  The Court grants
Plaintiff’s ex parte application and orders Defendant to produce the last known
contact information for Hillary Olsen, Guillermo Escareno, and Joshua Portillo within
twenty (20) days unless Defendant’s counsel agrees to accept service on their
behalf.  
 
The Court has no tentative order
on Fidel Vivas, as Plaintiff’s counsel has not provided sufficient information
to determine whether the deposition would be reasonably calculated to lead to
admissible evidence.
 
The Court grants the ex parte application
and authorizes these depositions to be taken on or before ___________, 2024.  The Court orders the parties to
meet-and-confer to schedule these deposition and determine whether the hearing
on the motion for summary judgment and the trial date must be continued.
 