 Case Number:  23STCV21002    Hearing Date:   February 21, 2024    Dept:  39 Daniel A. Burgoyne
v. Rolling Hills Covenant Church, et al.
Case No.
23STCV21002
 
Order #1 of 2
Motion to Compel
Arbitration
 
            Plaintiff
Daniel A. Burgoyne (“Plaintiff”) filed this action against his employer, the
Rolling Hills Covenant Church, and certain officials (collectively,
“Defendants”) asserting causes of action under the Labor Code, as well as
claims for breach of contract, breach of the implied covenant of good faith and
fair dealing, intentional infliction of emotional distress, wrongful
termination, and defamation.  Defendants
now move to compel arbitration.  
 
The moving party on a petition to
compel arbitration “bears the burden of proving the existence of a valid
arbitration agreement by a preponderance of the evidence, while a party
opposing the petition bears the burden of proving by a preponderance of the
evidence any fact necessary to its defense.  The trial court sits as the
trier of fact, weighing all the affidavits, declarations, and other documentary
evidence, and any oral testimony the court may receive at its discretion, to
reach a final determination.”  (Ruiz
v. Moss Bros. Auto Group, Inc. (2014) 232 Cal.App.4th 836, 842, internal
quotations and citations omitted.)  
 
            Defendants
advance an arbitration agreement purportedly signed by Plaintiff.  Defendants rely on a declaration from Sam
Tabari, the executive director of the church, who states that Plaintiff’s offer
letter included the arbitration agreement. 
(See Declaration of Sam Tabari, ¶ 10.) 
Tabari merely states: “I am aware that Plaintiff signed this Arbitration
Agreement (hereinafter ‘Agreement’) on or around May 3, 2021 as it was received
by RHCC from Plaintiff.”  (Ibid.)  Tabari effectively concedes that he did not
witness Plaintiff sign the agreement. 
Nor does he state that he personally received the document from
Plaintiff.  Tabari’s declaration states
only, effectively, “I found the arbitration agreement in the file and it had
Plaintiff’s signature.”  Defendants do
not advance any declaration from someone who witnessed Plaintiff sign the
agreement.  
 
            If
Plaintiff did not raise a genuine question whether he signed the agreement,
Tabari’s declaration may be sufficient to compel arbitration.  But in this case, Plaintiff raises
substantial doubt whether the arbitration agreement is genuine.  As an initial matter, Plaintiff states that
he never received or signed the agreement. 
(Declaration of Daniel A. Burgoyne, ¶ 5.)  Plaintiff attaches an email which includes
the “executed offer letter” and no arbitration agreement.  (Id., Exh. #1.)  Plaintiff advances further email, and none
references or contains the arbitration agreement.  (Id., Exh. #2.)  Plaintiff states that the signature on the
arbitration agreement is not his signature. 
(Id., ¶¶ 12-13.)  Specifically,
Plaintiff states that he did not sign any of the employment documents with his
middle initial, as reflected on the arbitration agreement.  (Id., ¶ 13.) 
   
 
            Plaintiff
relies on a declaration from his wife, Joy Burgoyne, who states that she
accompanied Plaintiff to the church to sign the “onboarding documents.”  (Declaration of Joy Burgoyne, ¶ 9.)  According to Mrs. Burgoyne, only Christina
Dake and Misty Williams were present during the entire process.  (Id., ¶ 10.) 
Mrs. Burgoyne reviewed all of the employment documents, and her husband
was never presented with an arbitration agreement.  (Id., ¶¶ 12, 16.)
 
            Plaintiff
relies on a declaration from Misty Williams, who was present during the
onboarding process.  She states that she
was present when Plaintiff and his wife signed the onboarding documents.  (Declaration of Misty Williams, ¶ 4.)  She states: “I have never seen this document,
nor did I see it used during my tenure. 
In my role, I would have seen this document. . . .  In fact, during my tenure, I’m unaware of any
new hires being asked to sign arbitration agreements as shown in Exhibit
1.”  (Id., ¶¶ 6-7.)  
 
            Plaintiff
relies on the declaration of Erich J. Speckin, a forensic chemist and
handwriting analyst.  Based upon his
examination and tests, Speckin opines that the arbitration agreement was not
printed on the same printer as Plaintiff’s offer letter.  (Declaration of Erich J. Speckin, ¶ 17.) 
 
            Finally,
the Court notes that Defendants did not provide a declaration from Christina
Dake.  The Court may consider the fact
that Defendants provided weaker evidence when they could have provided stronger
evidence.  (See CACI No. 203.)  
 
            Based upon
the foregoing, the Court finds that Defendants have not satisfied their burden
of demonstrating that Plaintiff signed the arbitration agreement.  Therefore, the motion is denied.  Defendant’s counsel shall provide notice and
file proof of such with the Court.   
 
Order #2 of 2
Special Motion to
Dismiss
 
            Defendant
has filed a special motion to dismiss under Code of Civil Procedure section
425.16.  There are two problems with the
motion.  
 
First, Defendants make a new
argument in the reply brief: “Plaintiff even is the subject of a Fox News
article regarding this very lawsuit.” 
(Defendants’ Reply Brief, p. 3:17-18.) 
However, the evidence cited by Defendants’ counsel does not support that
argument.
 
Second, Defendants argue that these
claims are barred by the ministerial exception. 
The First Amendment guarantees to a religious institution the right to
decide matters affecting its ministers’ employment, free from the scrutiny and
second-guessing of the civil courts. 
(Schmoll v. Chapman University (1999) 70 Cal.App. 1434, 1436.)  “The ministerial exception doctrine is based
on the notion a church’s appointment of its clergy, along with such closely
related issues as clerical salaries, assignments, working conditions and
termination of employment, is an inherently religious function because clergy
are such an integral part of a church’s functioning as a religious
institution.”  (Henry v. Red Hill
Evangelical Lutheran Church of Tustin (2011) 201 Cal.App.4th 1041, 1053.)  The ministerial exception precludes the
application of legislation “to claims concerning the employment relationship
between a religious institution and its ministers.”  (Sumner v. Simpson University (2018) 27
Cal.App.5th 577, 585, quoting Hosanna-Tabor Evangelical Lutheran Church and
School v. EEOC, 565 U.S. 171, 188 (2012).) 
Accordingly, secular courts cannot intervene in issues related to “the
hiring, firing, discipline or administration of clergy.”  (Henry, supra, 201 Cal.App.4th at p.
1053.)    
 
In Hosanna-Tabor, the U.S.
Supreme Court decided only that the First Amendment “precludes application of
such legislation to claims concerning the employment relationship between a
religious institution and its ministers.” 
(Hosanna-Tabor, supra, 565 U.S. at p. 188.)  The U.S. Supreme Court stated: “We express no
view on whether the exception bars other types of suits, including actions by
employees alleging breach of contract or tortious conduct by their religious
employers.”  (Id., p. 196.)  The Third District addressed this issue in Sumner
v. Simpson University (2018) 27 Cal.App.5th 577, holding that the
ministerial exception does not categorically bar common law contractual and
tort claims.  Rather, the issue depends
on whether the contractual dispute would require the Court to “excessively
entangle [itself] in religious matters,” like reviewing Plaintiff’s “religious
qualifications” or “performance as a religious leader.”  (Id., pp. 581, 593-594.)
 
While a religious institution can
seek dismissal of claims under the ministerial exception, Defendants cite no
authority for the argument that this issue may be raised in an anti-SLAPP
motion as opposed to a demurrer or motion for judgment on the pleadings.  This distinction is important because a
prevailing defendant is entitled to attorney’s fees and costs in connection
with an anti-SLAPP motion.  
 
Based upon the foregoing, the Court
orders as follows:
 
1.         The
Court continues the case management conference and anti-SLAPP motion to March
27, 2024, at 8:30 a.m.
 
2.         The
Court provides notice that it intends to construe Defendants’ motion as an
anti-SLAPP motion or, in the alternative, a motion for judgment on the
pleadings based upon the ministerial exception. 
The Court has authority to do so under Code of Civil Procedure section
438(b)(2).
 
3.         Defendants
may file a supplement to their anti-SLAPP motion addressing whether there was
publicity concerning this issue and whether the ministerial exception may be
raised on an anti-SLAPP motion.  The
deadline shall be based upon statute.  
 
4.         Plaintiff
may file a supplemental opposition, and Defendants may file a supplemental
reply, based upon statutory deadlines.
 
5.         Defendants’
counsel shall provide notice and file proof of such with the Court.   
 
 
 
 