  Case Number:  20STCV10698    Hearing Date:   February 21, 2024    Dept:  39 John Doe v. Los
Angeles Unified School District
Case No.
20STCV10698
Final Status
Conference
 
            Plaintiff
John Doe (“Plaintiff”) filed this action against the Los Angeles Unified School
District (“Defendant” or the “LAUSD”) alleging that he was molested by an employee
at his middle school.  The case will
proceed to trial on the following causes of action:
 
Third COA – Sexual Harassment (Civil Code §§ 51.9 & 52)
Fourth COA – Negligent Hiring, Supervision and Retention (Government
Code §§ 815.2 & 820)
Fifth COA – Breach of a Mandatory Duty to Report (Government
Code § 815.6)
Eighth COA – Negligence (Government Code §§ 815.2 & 820)
 
            A.        Trial Estimate 
 
            The parties
have filed a witness list with an estimate of 121 hours for testimony, which is
between 24 and 26 days, with additional days for jury selection and
arguments.  The parties’ estimate is that
this trial may take as many as 30 days.  There
are several problems with this estimate. 
First, in the Court’s experience, this estimate is excessive, even given
the allegations and alleged damages. 
Second, the parties did not provide sufficient notice.  If the parties intended to seek this amount
of time, they should have requested a long cause designation, which is
necessary for any case with over 100 hours of testimony.  In fact, the parties’ estimate is contrary to
the trial estimates in their case management statements.  Plaintiff estimated between 7 and 12 days,
and Defendant estimated between 5 and 7 days, for the entire trial when there
were two defendants.  Finally, the parties’
estimate compromises access to justice. 
The Court has approximately 693 open cases; The Court is setting new
cases for trial in September 2025; and the Court has seven trials between March
12 and March 26, 2024, that would need to be continued to accommodate this
trial.  “Some litigants are of the
mistaken opinion that when they are assigned to a court for trial they have
camping rights. . . . This view is not only contrary to law but undermines a
trial judge’s obligation to be protective of the court’s time and resources as
well as the time and interests of . . . jurors and other litigants waiting in
line to have their cases [tried].” (California Crane School, Inc. v.
National Com. For Certification of Crane Operators (2014) 226 Cal.App.4th
12, 20.) 
 
            Based upon
the foregoing, the Court orders that each side shall 20 hours for everything
from opening statements to closing arguments, absent unforeseen circumstances
or other good cause.  The Court plans to
tell the jury that closing arguments shall occur on or before March 8,
2024.  Voir dire shall be handled
separately and shall not count against this time estimate.  
 
            B.        Plaintiff’s Motions in Limine 
   
                        1.         Motion
in Limine #1 – GRANTED IN PART; DENIED IN PART
 
            Plaintiff’s
counsel seeks to exclude evidence of certain actions by his client.  Plaintiff’s counsel argues: “Plaintiff has
been diagnosed with conditions like ADHD, depression, and anxiety, both before
and after the incident.  While some
pre-existing diagnoses may be relevant to his damages, detailing specific bad
acts would be unfairly prejudicial and should be excluded at trial . . . .”  One of Plaintiff’s theories of damages is that
the molestation caused him to attempt suicide and is the reason for his
psychological issues.  In raising this
theory of damages, Plaintiff has put his mental state at issue, and Defendant
is entitled to introduce evidence concerning Plaintiff’s mental health, which
is reflected by his actions. 
 
            Based upon the
foregoing, the motion is granted in part and denied in part.  Defendant’s counsel may not introduce
evidence concerning the following: (1) Plaintiff’s misdemeanor convictions and
the underlying facts/circumstances; (2) The fact that Plaintiff’s girlfriend
sought a restraining order against him in April 2017; and (3) Allegations of sexual
harassment against Plaintiff in 2017.  With
respect to the first and second issues, there is little probative value to this
legal process, and any probative value would be greatly outweighed by the prejudice.  With respect to the third issue, evidence
that Plaintiff engaged in sexual harassment is not probative in light of the Court’s
decision to admit most of the other evidence, and it would be unduly prejudicial
because the jury may be confused into believing that any consent by Plaintiff
(who was a minor) is a defense in this case. 

 
            The motion is
denied in all other respects because the remaining incidents are probative as
to Plaintiff’s mental state and whether the sexual molestation—or the underlying
psychological issues as evidence by Plaintiff’s behavior—are responsible for
his damages.  In other words, the
evidence Plaintiff seeks to exclude is probative to establish whether Plaintiff
had a pre-existing psychological condition. 
For example, behavioral issues at home or reports of violent behavior are
probative of whether he had pre-existing psychological issues.  Although the Court is excluding the fact of
the restraining order, Defendant’s counsel may introduce evidence of the
underlying incident.  Similarly,
Plaintiff’s drug and alcohol experimentation not only evidences a pre-existing
psychological condition, it is close enough in time to the alleged molestation
to be relevant to his recollection and perceptions of the events at issue. 
 
            C.        Defendant’s Motions in Limine 
 
                        1.         Motion in Limine #1 – GRANTED 
 
Defendant seeks to exclude evidence
of prior settlements or verdicts against the LAUSD.  Plaintiff stipulated to an order granting
this motion in limine.  Therefore, the
motion is granted.       
 
                        2.         Motion in Limine #2 – WITHDRAWN 
 
                        3.         Motion
in Limine #3 – GRANTED IN PART; DENIED IN PART 
 
            Defendant
seeks to exclude evidence relating to other allegations of sexual abuse at the
John Liechty Middle School.  The motion
is denied with respect to allegations of sexual abuse by Clara Moreno-Santos, because
such evidence may be probative of the issue whether the LAUSD had notice of the
relevant issues, and this probative value is not greatly outweighed by the
prejudice.  The motion is granted with
respect to allegations that any other LAUSD employees engaged in sexual abuse
of students.  For example, allegations that
Denique Tarin was investigated for kissing a middle school student and engaging
in inappropriate conduct with students has little probative value, because the relevant
issue is whether Defendant had notice of issues with Clara Moreno-Santos.  The mere fact that Denique Tarin had inappropriate
relations with students does not mean the LAUSD was negligent in supervising Clara
Moreno-Santos and reporting her abuse.  The
Court finds that any probative value is greatly outweighed by the prejudice of
having a trial within a trial concerning allegations against Denique Tarin.  
 
                        4.         Motion in Limine #4 – GRANTED 
 
            Defendant
moves to exclude evidence relating to Adalberto Vega’s promotion.  Plaintiff does not oppose the motion.  Therefore, the motion is granted with respect
to both parties: While this order shall not prohibit Vega from testifying about
his current assignment, neither party shall inquire into the circumstances for the
reassignment.  Defendant’s counsel may
not make a record that Vega was promoted, suggesting that he performed
appropriately in response to the underlying incident.  Plaintiff’s counsel may not make a record
that Vega was transferred, suggesting that he performed inappropriately in
response to the underlying incident.
 
                        5.         Motion
in Limine #5 – NO RULING  
 
            Defendant
seeks to exclude hearsay statements in a police report “reflecting that
Plaintiff was the subject of child abuse.” 
As an initial matter, the Court is unclear why the police report is necessary.  Detective Melissa Jindra will be a witness at
trial.  Presumably, she will testify that
she investigated allegations of child abuse, interviewed Plaintiff, and
arrested Clara Moreno-Santos.  Detective
Jindra likely would be able to testify as to Plaintiff’s statements as prior
consistent statements if Defendant’s counsel challenges his credibility directly
on cross-examination or indirectly by arguing that no molestation occurred.  Detective Jindra might be able to provide a
lay opinion under Evidence Code section 800 that Plaintiff exhibited all of the
characteristic signs and behavior of an abused child assuming she has
foundation to do so (e.g., she has encountered abused children and investigated
child molestation cases in the past).  The
Court believes based upon prior discussions that Defendant’s counsel does not
intend to argue that Clara Moreno-Santos did not molest Plaintiff.  Therefore, the Court must understand whether
Defendant’s counsel is challenging the molestation before ruling on this
motion.    
 
            Putting
that aside, the report may be admissible with Detective Jindra’s conclusion
that Plaintiff was molested.  Police
reports may fall within the official records exception to the hearsay rule if
the officer prepared the report within the scope of her duty as a public
employee; the report was made on or near the date of the relevant events; and
the sources of information and method and time of preparation were such to
indicate the trustworthiness of the report. 
If necessary, the Court could conduct a 402 hearing with Detective Jindra
in order to resolve this issue.   
 
                        6.         Motion in Limine #6 – GRANTED IN PART;
DENIED IN PART  
 
            Defendant moves
to exclude “evidence of statements related to Plaintiff’s alleged ‘diagnosis’ of
herpes allegedly transmitted from Clara Moreno-Santos.”  The motion is granted in part and denied in
part.
 
            Plaintiff may
testify about his physical condition, i.e., that he discovered lesions, how they
felt, etc.  Plaintiff may testify that he
sought medical advice of this condition. 
Plaintiff may testify concerning what medications he takes for the condition.  Plaintiff may testify about the timing of
Clara Moreno-Santos’s molestation in relation to his discovery of the lesions,
and whether he had sexual contact with anyone else during the relevant time
period.   
 
            Plaintiff
may not testify that he was diagnosed with herpes because the testimony would
be based on hearsay.  Plaintiff also may
not testify that the medications are used to treat herpes, as he lacks
foundation for that testimony.  Plaintiff’s
counsel must elicit this testimony from his non-retained expert witnesses (or
retained expert witnesses, if they examined Plaintiff) or through other
admissible evidence. 
 
                        7.         Motion
in Limine #7 – NO RULING  
 
            Defendant
moves to exclude evidence and evidence that the LAUSD had “any responsibility
to check on Plaintiff off-campus.”  The Court
cannot rule on this motion in advance of trial because the Court must hear the
evidence and argument.  On the one hand,
Defendant is correct that the LAUSD was not responsible for monitoring students
after they leave school after school hours. 
On the other hand, as the Court noted in denying Defendant’s motion for
summary judgment, the LAUSD had a responsibility to hire, train, and supervise
Ms. Moreno-Santos and to report suspected child abuse.  The Court orders the parties to
meet-and-confer and draft a jury instruction that navigates this line.        
 
            D.        Deposition Designations/Counter-Designations

 
            Defendant filed
deposition designations for the following witnesses: (1) Detective Kurt Garcia,
(2) Maria Canaca, (3) John Doe, (4) Officer Oscar T. Surles, (5) LAPD Custodian
of Records Celina Valadez.  Plaintiff’s counsel
did not file any counter-designations. 
The Court orders Plaintiff’s counsel to do so on or before February 22,
2024.  If Plaintiff’s counsel fails to do
so, Plaintiff shall waive the right to introduce any counter-designations.  
 
            E.         Exhibit List
 
            The parties
filed a joint exhibit list.  However, the
parties did not list objections to the authenticity of certain exhibits.  The parties listed no stipulations or objections
to the admissibility of certain exhibits. 
The Court orders the parties to revise the exhibit list by adding a
column to indicate whether there are stipulations to the admissibility of the
exhibits.  The parties shall list all
grounds for objections.  The parties
shall re-file the exhibit list on or before February 22, 2024.  If the parties fail to do so, any objection not
listed on the exhibit list is waived at the discretion of the Court.
 
            F.         Notice
 
            The Court’s
clerk shall provide notice via regular mail and email.  