 Case Number:  21STCV37464    Hearing Date:   February 26, 2024    Dept:  31 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA  FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT  SUSAN HILL, Plaintiff(s),  vs.  CITY OF COMPTON, ET AL.,  Defendant(s). ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) )       CASE NO: 21STCV37464  [TENTATIVE] ORDER DENYING PLAINTIFF’S MOTIONS TO COMPEL FURTHER RESPONSES   Dept. 31 1:00 p.m.  February 26, 2024  I. Background Plaintiff Susan Hill (“Plaintiff”) filed this action against defendant City of Compton (“Defendant”) for damages arising from a trip and fall on a concrete walkway.   Plaintiff and Defendant participated in an Informal Discovery Conference (“IDC”) on February 22, 2024, concerning Plaintiff’s set one of form interrogatories, special interrogatories, request for production of documents (RPDs), and request for admissions (RFAs), propounded on Defendant. Prior to IDC, Plaintiff had filed an omnibus motion to compel further regarding the discovery disputes not resolved. Defendant opposes the motion, and Plaintiff filed a reply.   II. Timeliness of Motion to Compel Further Responses “Unless notice of this motion is given within 45 days of the service of the verified response, or any supplemental verified response, or on or before any specific later date to which the propounding party and the responding party have agreed in writing, the propounding party waives any right to compel a further response to the interrogatories.”  (CCP § 2030.300(c).)   Plaintiff contends that Defendant served responses on September 28, 2022. After meeting and conferring, defense counsel agreed to amend the responses by December 8, 2022, and granted Plaintiff a two-week extension for Plaintiff to file her motion to compel further. Plaintiff filed the instant motion on December 21, 2023. Plaintiff argues the motion is timely, contending that unverified responses does not trigger the 45-day rule. In opposition, Defendant contends the motion is untimely. In September 2022, defense councel provides they did agree to review the responses and supplement if necessary, but Defendant did not in the end supplement the responses. Over one and a half years later, Plaintiff emailed a meet and confer letter regarding the February 10, 2022 responses, and that Defendant’s willingness to meet and confer is not a concession of the 45-day waiver to bring motions to compel. In reply, Plaintiff argues that she had filed a motion to compel verifications for the set of discovery at issue, which was taken off-calendar when Defendant agreed to serve verifications. The verifications were served on September 28, 2023. Plaintiff argues that verifications are required to start the 45-day clock on a motion to compel further. Here, Plaintiff acknowledges that the Discovery Act allows for objection responses, and it further specifies that objection-only responses need not be verified. (See CCP §§ 2030.250 (a), 2031.250 (a), and 2033.240 (a).) CCP §§ 2030.300, 2031.310, and 2033.290 each provide that a party may move for an order compelling a further response if an objection is without merit or too general. Further, subdivision (c) of each section provides that the notice of the motion must be given within 45 days of service of the “verified response, or any supplemental verified response.” As discussed in Golf & Tennis Pro Shop, Inc. v. Superior Ct. (2022) 84 Cal. App. 5th 127, Legislature inserting the word “verified” before the word “response” only created more confusion in determining the 45-day period. (Id. at 135.) Construing the statutes together, as to harmonize the effect within the scheme of the law, the Court finds that the 45-day period for objection-only responses runs from the date the responses were served. Thus, Plaintiff’s motion to compel further responses to Defendant’s objection-only responses served in February 2022 is untimely.   Based on the foregoing, the motion to compel further is DENIED. No sanctions are awarded.   Moving party is ordered to give notice.    PLEASE TAKE NOTICE: Parties are encouraged to meet and confer after reading this tentative ruling to see if they can reach an agreement. If a party intends to submit on this tentative ruling,¿the party must send an email to the court at¿sscdept31@lacourt.org¿with the Subject line “SUBMIT” followed by the case number.¿ The body of the email must include the hearing date and time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the party submitting.¿¿ Unless¿all¿parties submit by email to this tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or in person for oral argument.¿ You should assume that others may appear at the hearing to argue.¿¿ If the parties neither submit nor appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.¿ After the Court has issued a tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion without leave.¿  Dated this 23rd day of February 2024      Hon. Michelle C. Kim Judge of the Superior Court   