  Case Number:  23AHCV00075    Hearing Date:   January 10, 2024    Dept:  X    Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Joel L. Lofton,
Department X
 
 
HEARING DATE:     January
10, 2024                                 TRIAL
DATE: September 24, 2024
                                                           
CASE:                         VERONICA PRADO;
ANTHONY NARANGO, v. TLD TRANSPORT, INC.; ZHENG ZHAO and DOES 1 to 50,
inclusive.  
 
CASE NO.:                 23AHCV00075
 
            
 
MOTION
FOR LEAVE TO CONDUCT MENTAL EXAMIANTION

 
MOVING PARTY:               Defendants TLD Transport, Inc. 
 
RESPONDING PARTY:      Plaintiff
Veronica Prado and Anthony Narango
 
SERVICE:                              Filed December 15, 2023
 
RELIEF
REQUESTED 
 
             Defendant moves for leave to
conduct a physical neurological examination of both Plaintiffs. 
 
BACKGROUND
 
             This case arises out of Plaintiffs Veronica
Prado (“Prado”) and Anthony Narango’s (“Narango”) (collectively “Plaintiffs”)
claim that they were injured by Defendants negligent actions after a motor
vehicle accident. 
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 
            Defendant’s motions for leave to conduct neurological examinations
of Plaintiffs is DENIED without prejudice. 
 
LEGAL STANDARD
 
            Code of Civil Procedure section 2032.310, subdivision (a), provides: “If any party
desires to obtain discovery by a physical examination other than that described
in Article 2 (commencing with Section 2032.210), or by a
mental examination, the party shall obtain leave of court.” “The court shall
grant a motion for a physical or mental examination under Section 2032.310 only for good cause shown.” (Code
Civ. Proc. § 2032.320, subdivision (a).) 
 
DISCUSSION
 
            Defendant
seeks to leave to conduct a neurological examination of both Plaintiffs.
Defendant argues that good cause exists for the examinations because each
Plaintiffs’ neurological status is directly related to the alleged harm and
damages.
 
            Defendant
provides that Prado testified during her deposition that her “head hurt” and
that she sought medical attention. (Motion at p. 4:6-8, Sherman Decl. ¶ 3, Exhibit A.) Defendant also provides that
Prado’s neurologist noted that Prado had various injuries related to her head
and brain and that her gaze tested appeared to be abnormal. (Motion at p.
4:9-17, Sherman Decl. ¶¶ 4-5, Exhibits A and B.) 
 
            Defendant provides that Narango testified during his
deposition that he had “head pain” and dizziness. (Motion at p. 4:7-8, Sherman
Decl. ¶ 3, Exhibit A.) Defendant provides that Narango’s neurologist also noted
that Narango had head and brain injuries and an abnormal gaze test. (Motion at
p. 4:9-16.) 
 
            Good
cause exists to allow Defendant to conduct a neurological examination on
Plaintiffs. Plaintiffs’ injuries directly relate to the examination Defendant
requests. Further, Plaintiffs both sought care from a neurologist who examined
both Plaintiffs and rendered an opinion on Plaintiffs’ condition. Thus, an
examination is relevant for Defendant to assess and evaluate Plaintiffs’
claims. 
 
            “An order granting
a physical or mental examination shall specify the person or persons who may
perform the examination, as well as the time, place, manner, diagnostic tests
and procedures, conditions, scope, and nature of the examination.” (Code Civ.
Proc. § 2032.320, subdivision (d).)
 
            Defendant
seeks a neurological examination on February 22, 2024 at 11:00 a.m. at 6360
Wilshire Blvd. Suite 210, Los Angeles, California 90048 with Dr. Levine, a
board-certified neurologist. However, Defendant does not provide the court with
information regarding the manner, diagnostic tests and procedures, conditions,
and scope of the examination other than stating they are seeking “neurological
imaging”.  Other than that, the Defendant
simply states that they are requesting an order for a neurological examination
and/or a medical Examination. Defendant has failed to provide sufficient
information for this court to comply with Code of Civil Procedure section
2032.320.
 
CONCLUSION
 
            Defendant’s motions for leave to conduct neurological
examinations of Plaintiffs is DENIED without prejudice. 
 
            Moving
Party to provide notice. 
 
 
            
Dated:   January 10,
2024                                           ___________________________________
                                                                                    Joel
L. Lofton
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court



