 Case Number:  24STCV02982    Hearing Date:   December 5, 2024    Dept:  71 NOTE: The Court has a
conflict on the morning of December 5, 2024. 
For the convenience of the parties, the Court is posting the following
tentative.  If the parties stipulate to
the tentative, so advise the Judicial Assistant upon checking in at 8:30 a.m.
via Court-Connect.  If either party
wishes to be heard, the Court will call the matter at 11:00 a.m.
Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
 
DEPARTMENT 71
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 



CARL JACOBS,
  et al.,
  
         vs.
 
GREEN
  PASTURES GROUP, INC., et al. 


 Case No.: 
  24STCV02982
 
 
 
 
 Hearing Date:  December 5, 2024



 
Defendants Green
Pastures Group, Inc.’s and John Cohen’s demurrer to Plaintiffs Carl Jacobs’ and
Beverly Jacobs’ 4th and 7th causes of
action is overruled.
Defendants Green
Pastures Group, Inc.’s and John Cohen’s motion to strike portions of
Plaintiffs’ first amended complaint is denied. 
 
Defendants Green Pastures Group, Inc. (“GPG”) and John
Cohen (“Cohen”) (collectively, “Moving Defendants”) demur to the 4th and 7th
causes of action to Plaintiffs Carl Jacobs’ (“Carl”) and Beverly Jacobs’
(“Beverly”) (collectively, “Plaintiffs”) first amended complaint (“FAC”).  (Notice of Demurrer, pgs. 1-2; C.C.P.
§430.41(e).) 
Defendants also move to strike portions of Plaintiffs’ FAC.  (Notice of MTS, pgs. 1-2; C.C.P. §§435, 436,
437.)
 
1.    
Demurrer
Meet and Confer
Before filing a demurrer, the demurring party must meet and
confer in person, by telephone, or by video conference with the party who filed
the pleading to attempt to reach an agreement that would resolve the objections
to the pleading and obviate the need for filing the demurrer.  (C.C.P. §430.41(a).)
The demurring party shall file and serve with the demurrer
a declaration stating either of the following: (A) The means by which the
demurring party met and conferred with the party who filed the pleading subject
to demurrer, and that the parties did not reach an agreement resolving the
objections raised in the demurrer. (B) That the party who filed the pleading
subject to demurrer failed to respond to the meet and confer request of the
demurring party or otherwise failed to meet and confer in good faith.  (C.C.P. §430.41(a)(3).)
Moving Defendants’ counsel declares that on September 13,
2024, she attempted to meet and confer with Plaintiffs’ counsel telephonically
to discuss the instant demurrer and motion to strike and was unable to reach
him.  (Decl. of Bassi ¶3.)  Moving Defendants’ counsel declares that she
attempted to reach Plaintiffs’ counsel numerous times and did not hear back
from him.  (See Decl. of Bassi
¶3.)  Moving Defendants’ counsel’s
declaration is sufficient under C.C.P. §430.41(a).  Therefore, the Court will consider Moving
Defendants’ demurrer.
 
Procedural
Background
          Plaintiffs
filed their initial Complaint on February 5, 2024 against Moving Defendants and
Non-moving Defendants Old Republic Surety Company (“Old Republic”) and Western
Surety Company (“Western”) (collectively, “Defendants”), alleging eight causes
of action: (1) Breach of Contract; (2) Negligence; (3) Breach of Express
Warranty; (4) Breach of Implied Warranty; (5) Negligence/Construction Defect;
(6) Breach of Implied Warranty; (7) Fraud-Failure to Disclose Defects; and (8)
Action Against License Bond.
          On June 10,
2024, this Court sustained Moving Defendants’ demurrer to the 4th and 7th
causes of action with 20 days leave to amend and overruled Moving Defendants’
demurrer to the 2nd and 3rd causes of action as well as the demurrer to the
entire Complaint.  (See 6/10/24
Minute Order.)
          Plaintiffs
filed the operative FAC on August 5, 2024, alleging the same eight causes of
action.
Moving Defendants filed the instant demurrer and
accompanying motion to strike on September 20, 2024.  Plaintiffs filed their opposition on November 18,
2024.  As of the date of this hearing no
reply has been filed.
 
Summary of Allegations
Plaintiffs allege they are husband and wife and together
own the real property located at 420 N. Las Palmas Ave., Los Angeles, CA 90004
(“Property”).  (FAC ¶1.)  Plaintiffs allege in or about May 2021,
Plaintiffs and GPG entered into a verbal contract for the design and
construction of a swimming pool and spa and related electrical and plumbing
systems, pool equipment, as well as various hardscape items including a pool
deck and related drainage systems, and landscaping, for a total contract price
of approximately $250,000.00.  (FAC ¶9.)  Plaintiffs allege during the course of
construction, the parties entered into numerous modifications to the contract
consisting of changes in the scope of work and additions and/or credits to the
contract price.  (FAC ¶9.)    
Plaintiffs allege GPG began work on the Property in
approximately May 2021 but never completely finished its work as of July 2023,
after numerous attempts by the Plaintiffs to correct or finish multiple items
including, without limitation, fencing, delaminating stone tiles around the
pool deck, fixing the leaks in the spa, and deck lighting.  (FAC ¶10.) 
Plaintiffs allege after these attempts failed, in or about August 2023,
Plaintiffs notified Moving Defendants that their services were being terminated.
 (FAC ¶11.)  
Plaintiffs allege subsequently, they engaged the services
of pool construction experts for the purpose of inspecting and evaluating
Defendants’ work on the Property, at which time Plaintiffs discovered numerous
defects enumerated in paragraph 16 below.  (FAC ¶12.) 
Plaintiffs allege in consideration for the work described herein,
Plaintiffs have paid GPG and/or its vendors approximately $317,000.00.  (FAC ¶13.) 
Plaintiffs allege at all times material hereto, Defendant expressly
agreed to provide Plaintiffs with high quality work, to be constructed in a
first class, professional and workmanlike manner and in accordance with all
applicable building codes and in accordance with the approved plans and
specifications.  (FAC ¶14.)
Plaintiffs allege Moving Defendants billed themselves as
“Pool Builders to the Stars” and “A Master Craftsman Expert Design/Build Firm.”  (FAC ¶15.)  
Plaintiffs allege they have performed all conditions, covenants and
promises required in accordance with the terms and conditions of the written
contract and change orders entered into between the Plaintiffs and Defendant.  (FAC ¶16.)
Plaintiffs allege beginning in or about July 2023, and
continuing thereafter, GPG breached the contract with the Plaintiff by failing
to construct the improvements in a first class, professional and workmanlike
manner as manifested by, but not limited to numerous defects which have
resulted in damage to Plaintiffs and Plaintiffs’ Property, as herein alleged,
during the period between the initial construction of the above-described
improvements until the present time. The defects include, without limitation,
the following:
a.     
Failure
to construct the pool and spa with proper permits required by the City of Los
Angeles, in particular building a new pool inside an old pool without proper
engineering or approval by the City of Los Angeles; 
b.    
Failure
to follow plans and engineering drawings, causing the City of Los Angeles,
Department of Building & Safety to disapprove the construction of the pool
and spa; 
c.     
Spa
structure infringes on required setback from the north property line; 
d.    
Failure
to enlist the services of a licensed geotechnical consultant to verify existing
soils conditions; 
e.     
There
is uncompacted and uncertified fill material, as well as moisture trapped
between the old pool deep end floor and the new pool floor. 
f.      
The
mechanical equipment is either partially or non-functioning; 
g.    
The
MEP system is not designed properly for the optimal functioning of the pool and
spa;
h.    
The
UV Sterilizer/Ozone generator is inoperable;
i.      
The
pool requires a two-pump system whereas only a one pump system was designed and
installed;
j.      
Improperly
designed chemical control system not to industry standard;
k.    
Spa
blower inoperable;
l.      
Failure
to follow NEC Article 680 for equipotential bonding;
m.  
No
pool enclosure fence and gates required by State and local building codes;
n.    
The
pool deck was constructed at the wrong elevation, causing the weep screed on an
adjacent structure to be “buried” in violation of the City’s building codes;
o.    
Stone
pavers around the pool and spa are incorrectly installed and are delaminating;
p.    
Pool
deck is improperly sloped causing inadequate drainage and causing water
migration under the stone pavers around the pool and spa;
q.    
Incorrect
installation of pool floor per engineering;
r.      
The
spa has voids of 6” to 12” on its western face that show exposed steel and
plumbing; water is leaking from the spa into this void, causing corrosion to
the steel reinforcing bars in the spa;
s.     
The
pebble finish was installed on top of two different applications of Hydrazo
without use of the proper bonding materials;
t.      
Leaking
from the pool and spa causing saturation and damage to the landscaped area
between the pool and the Plaintiffs’ residence.
u.    
The
combined result of the foregoing defects will require complete removal of the
old pool and new pool and spa, as well as other alterations to the property
noted above.
(FAC ¶17.)   
 
Summary of Demurrer
Moving Defendants demur to the 4th
cause of action on the basis it fails to state facts sufficient to constitute
causes of action against Cohen, and 7th cause of action on the basis it fails
to allege facts sufficient to allege a cause of action.  (Demurrer, pg. 2.)
 
Failure to State a Cause of
Action
Breach of Implied
Warranty (4th COA)
The doctrine of implied warranties of quality and fitness
applies to not only the sale of goods, but also to the sale of newly
constructed real property.  (Pollard
v. Saxe & Yolles Development Co. (1974) 12 Cal. 3d 374, 378-380).  
“[T]here is implied in a sales contract for newly
constructed real property a warranty of quality and fitness. . . . ‘[T]he
builder or seller of new construction—not unlike the manufacturer or
merchandiser of personalty—makes implied representations, ordinarily
indispensable to the sale, that the builder has used reasonable skill and
judgment in constructing the building.’ . . . ‘[W]e conclude builders and
sellers of new construction should be held to what is impliedly
represented—that the completed structure was designed and constructed in a
reasonably workmanlike manner.’” (Burch v. Superior Court (2014) 223
Cal.App.4th 1411, 1422, disapproved on other grounds in McMillin Albany LLC
v. Superior Court (2018) 4 Cal.5th 241, 258.)
A plaintiff must allege the following elements: (1) that defendant
failed to perform its work competently or provide the proper materials by means;
and (2)that plaintiff was harmed by defendant’s failure.  (See CACI 4510.)
Plaintiffs allege in agreeing to make the improvements to
the Plaintiffs’ Property as herein alleged, Defendants impliedly warranted that
the improvements would be properly constructed in a first class, professional
and workmanlike manner, free of defects in material and workmanship, and built
in accordance with the project plans and specifications and in accordance with
all applicable building and safety codes. 
(FAC ¶31.)  Plaintiffs allege the
improvements to the Property performed by GPG, Cohen and Does 1 through 25 were
not constructed in a professional and workmanlike manner, the improvements were
not made in accordance with the applicable project plans and specifications,
are not free from defects in material and workmanship, and are not completed
accordance with all applicable building and safety codes.  (FAC ¶32.)
Plaintiffs sufficiently allege a cause of action for implied
warranties of quality and fitness.  (See
FAC ¶¶17, 19-20, 31-32.)
Accordingly, Moving Defendants’ demurrer to Plaintiffs’ 4th
cause of action is overruled.
 
Fraud by Concealment (7th COA)
“[T]he elements of an action for fraud and deceit based on
a concealment are: (1) the defendant must have concealed or suppressed a
material fact, (2) the defendant must have been under a duty to disclose the
fact to the plaintiff, (3) the defendant must have intentionally concealed or
suppressed the fact with the intent to defraud the plaintiff, (4) the plaintiff
must have been unaware of the fact and would not have acted as he did if he had
known of the concealed or suppressed fact, and (5) as a result of the
concealment or suppression of the fact, the plaintiff must have sustained
damage.”  (Boschma v. Home Loan
Center, Inc. (2011) 198 Cal.App.4th 230, 248; see also Alfaro v. Community Housing Improvement System &
Planning Assn., Inc. (2009) 171 Cal.App.4th 1356, 1384 [rule of specifically pleading how, when, where, to whom,
and by what means, misrepresentations were communicated, applies to affirmative
misrepresentations, not to concealment].)
“A duty to speak may arise in four ways: it may be directly
imposed by statute or other prescriptive law; it may be voluntarily assumed by
contractual undertaking; it may arise as an incident of a relationship between
the defendant and the plaintiff; and it may arise as a result of other conduct
by the defendant that makes it wrongful for him to remain silent.”  (SCC Acquisitions, Inc. v. Central Pacific
Bank (2012) 207 Cal.App.4th 859, 860.)
“In transactions which do not involve fiduciary or
confidential relations, a cause of action for non-disclosure of material facts
may arise in at least three instances: (1) the defendant makes representations
but does not disclose facts which materially qualify the facts disclosed, or
which render his disclosure likely to mislead; (2) the facts are known or
accessible only to defendant, and defendant knows they are not known to or
reasonably discoverable by the plaintiff; (3) the defendant actively conceals
discovery from the plaintiff.”  (Warner
Construction Corp. v. L.A. (1970) 2 Cal.3d 285, 294, footnotes omitted.)
Plaintiffs
allege that Moving Defendants knew during the course of construction of the
improvements described herein, that said improvements were required to be
performed in a first class, professional and workmanlike manner, free from
defects in material and workmanship, and performed in accordance with the
project plans and specifications and in accordance with all applicable building
and safety codes.  (FAC ¶47.)  Plaintiffs allege
Moving Defendants, who contractually undertook the work of improvement for a
premium consideration, were under a duty to disclose to the Plaintiffs any
failure to perform the work of improvement described herein that was not
performed in a first class, professional and workmanlike manner, free from
defects in material and workmanship, and performed in accordance with the
project plans and specifications and in accordance with all applicable building
and safety codes.  (FAC ¶47.)
Plaintiffs
allege that during the time of performance of the work of improvement described
herein, which was between May 2021 and July 2023, Defendant Cohen, on behalf of
Defendant GPG as GPG’s responsible managing officer intentionally failed to
disclose to the Plaintiffs the following defects known to him in the design,
planning, permitting, engineering and construction of the contracted for
improvements:
a.
That the construction of the pool and spa was performed without the proper
permits required by the City of Los Angeles, in particular building a new pool
inside an old pool without proper engineering or approval by the City of Los
Angeles;
b.
That Defendants failed to follow the approved plans and engineering drawings,
causing the City of Los Angeles, Department of Building & Safety to
disapprove the construction of the pool and spa in or about September 2023;
c.
That the Spa structure infringes on required five-foot setback from the north
property line of the Plaintiffs’ property; the setback requirement not being
known to Plaintiffs who are lay people and have no experience with construction
or city building codes;
d.
That Defendants failed to enlist the services of a licensed geotechnical
consultant to verify existing soils conditions before the pool and spa were
built;
e.
There is uncompacted and uncertified fill material, as well as moisture trapped
between the old pool deep end floor and the new pool floor, causing hydrostatic
pressure resulting in the cracking of the original Hydrazzo pool finish.
f.
The mechanical equipment is either partially or non-functioning;
g.
The MEP system is not designed properly for the optimal functioning of the pool
and spa;
h.
The UV Sterilizer/Ozone generator is inoperable;
i.
The pool requires a two-pump system whereas only a one pump system was designed
and installed;
j.
Improperly designed chemical control system not to industry standard;
k.
Spa blower inoperable;
l.
Failure to follow NEC Article 680 for equipotential bonding;
m.
No pool enclosure fence and gates required by State and local building codes;
n.
The Defendants constructed the pool deck at the wrong elevation, causing the
weep screed on an adjacent structure to be “buried” in violation of the City’s
building codes;
o.
The Stone pavers around the pool and spa are incorrectly installed causing
delamination of the pavers;
p.
Defendants constructed the pool deck at an improper slope causing inadequate
drainage and causing water migration under the stone pavers around the pool and
spa;
q.
Incorrect installation of pool floor per engineering;
r.
Defendants installed the pebble finish of the pool on top of two different
applications of Hydrazo without use of the proper bonding materials;
s.
Leaking from the pool and spa causing saturation and damage to the landscaped
area between the pool and the Plaintiffs’ residence.
t.
Plaintiffs are informed and believe, and thereon allege, that there was no
structural observation of the improvements by a structural engineer as required
by law.
(FAC ¶48.)
Plaintiffs
allege the vast majority of the defects in the improvements are latent and these
defects were not discovered by Plaintiffs until in or about July 2023, when
continuing problems with the pool, spas and related structures led Plaintiffs
to enlist the services of a pool construction experts who, thereafter,
conducted destructive testing of the new pool shell, in order to identify the
defects alleged herein.  (FAC ¶49.)
Plaintiffs
allege Moving Defendants intentionally concealed the foregoing facts from the
Plaintiffs with the intent to deceive and defraud the Plaintiffs in order to
continue to extract monetary payments from the Plaintiffs despite the
Defendants’ defective work.  (FAC ¶50.)
Plaintiffs
allege in reliance thereon, Plaintiffs have paid to Defendants in excess of
$317,000.00 for the improvements described herein, which are now discovered to
be defectively built, built without conformance to the project plans and
specifications, built in violation of applicable building and safety codes, all
as previously alleged herein.  (FAC ¶51.)
Plaintiffs
allege in reliance thereof, Plaintiffs have suffered damages in an amount to be
proven at trial, but which Plaintiffs believe to exceed the sum of $1,000,000.  (FAC ¶52.)
Plaintiffs
sufficiently allege a cause of action for concealment.  Plaintiffs allege in ¶48 that during the
period of time between May 2021 and July 2023, Defendant Cohen, on behalf of Defendant
GPG, intentionally concealed the specific defects enumerated in ¶48.  Plaintiffs itemize 20 defective items that
Defendant Cohen failed to disclose to the Plaintiffs, and allege that he did so
intentionally “with the intent to “deceive and defraud the Plaintiffs, in order
to continue to extract monetary payments from the Plaintiffs despite the
Defendants’ defective work.”  (FAC ¶¶48, 50.)  Plaintiffs allege Defendant GPG had a
statutory duty under Business & Professions Code §7068.1 to “be responsible
for exercising supervision and control of their employer’s or principal’s
construction operations to secure compliance with this chapter and the rules
and regulations of the board.” (FAC ¶¶2, 46) and Cohen was an alter ego of GPG
(FAC ¶4).  Plaintiffs allege Moving
Defendants were under a duty to disclose to the Plaintiffs any failure to
perform the work of improvement described herein that was not performed in a
first class, professional and workmanlike manner, free from defects in material
and workmanship, and performed in accordance with the project plans and
specifications and in accordance with all applicable building and safety codes.  (FAC ¶47.)
Accordingly,
Moving Defendants’ demurrer to Plaintiff’s 7th cause of action is overruled.
 
Conclusion
Moving Defendants’ demurrer to
Plaintiffs’ 4th and 7th causes of action is overruled.
Moving Party to give notice.
 
2.    
Motion to Strike
Legal Standard
C.C.P. §436 provides that the Court may, upon a motion made
pursuant to C.C.P. §435, or at any time within its discretion and upon terms it
deems proper, “strike out any irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted in
any pleading” or any pleading or part thereof “not drawn or filed in conformity
with the laws of this state, a court rule, or an order of the court.”  (C.C.P. §436.)
 
Summary of Motion
Moving Defendants move to strike portions of the FAC pertaining to
recovery of exemplary or punitive damages (FAC ¶53, Prayer ¶6).  (Notice MTS, pg. 2; C.C.P. §§435, 436, 437.)
 
Punitive Damages
Punitive damages may be
recovered upon a proper showing of malice, fraud, or oppression.  (Civ. Code §3294(a).)  “Malice” is defined as conduct intended to
cause injury to a person or despicable conduct carried on with a willful and
conscious disregard for the rights or safety of others.  (Turman v. Turning Point of Cent. Cal.,
Inc. (2010) 191 Cal.App.4th 53, 63.) 
“Oppression” means despicable conduct subjecting a person to cruel and
unjust hardship, in conscious disregard of the person’s rights.  (Id.) 
“Fraud” is an intentional misrepresentation, deceit, or concealment of a
material fact known by defendant, with intent to deprive a person of property,
rights or otherwise cause injury.  (Id.)  Conclusory allegations, devoid of any factual
assertions, are insufficient to support a conclusion that parties acted with
oppression, fraud, or malice.  (Smith
v. Superior Court (1992) 10 Cal.App.4th 1033, 1042.)
“Conduct which warrants punitive damages must be of ‘such severity
or shocking character [as] warrants the same treatment as accorded to willful
misconduct – conduct in which defendant intends to cause harm.’”  (Woolstrum v. Mailloux (1983) 141
Cal.App.3d Supp. 1, 10, quoting Nolin v. National Convenience Stores, Inc.
(1979) 95 Cal.App.3d 279, 286.)  “Despicable
Conduct” is conduct that is so vile, base, contemptible, miserable, wretched or
loathsome that it would be looked down upon and despised by ordinary decent
people.”  (Scott v. Phoenix
Schools, Inc. (2009) 175 Cal.App.4th 702, 715.)
          Plaintiffs’ FAC
sufficiently alleges a cause of action for fraud, thereby justifying a request
for punitive damages.
Accordingly, Moving Defendants’ motion to strike Plaintiff’s
request for punitive damages from the FAC is denied.  
 
Conclusion
Moving Defendants’ motion to strike is denied.
Moving Party to give notice.
 
Dated:  December _____, 2024
                                                                             





  