  Case Number:  21PSCV00428    Hearing Date:   October 10, 2024    Dept:  6 CASE NAME:  Maria Angela
Rodriguez v. Mercado Latino, Inc., et al. 
Defendant
Jorge Rodriguez’ Motion to Strike Plaintiff’s Notice of Errata to Third Amended
Complaint 
TENTATIVE RULING             
The Court DENIES
Defendant Jorge Rodriguez’s motion to strike. 
Plaintiff is ordered to give notice of this ruling and file proof
of service of same within five calendar days. 
BACKGROUND 
This
is an involuntary dissolution action. On May 21, 2021, Plaintiff Maria Angela
Rodriguez (Plaintiff) filed this action against Defendants Mercado Latino, Inc.
(Mercado Latino), Grosac, Inc. (Grosac), Richard Yarruths Rodriguez (Richard), Roberto
Rodriguez (Roberto), Jorge Rodriguez (Jorge) (collectively, Defendants), and
Does 1 through 50. On July 2, 2024, Plaintiff filed the operative Third Amended
Complaint (TAC), alleging causes of action for involuntary dissolution of
Mercado Latino and Grosac, breach of fiduciary duty, financial elder abuse, and
accounting. 
On
September 6, 2024, Jorge moved to strike Plaintiff’s notice of errata to the
Third Amended Complaint. On September 30, 2024, Plaintiff opposed the motion.
On October 3, 2024, Jorge replied. 
LEGAL STANDARD
              “Any party, within the time allowed to respond to a pleading may
serve and file a notice of motion to strike the whole or any part thereof, but this
time limitation shall not apply to motions specified in subdivision (e).”
(Code Civ. Proc., § 435, subd. (b)(2).) “The court may, upon a motion made
pursuant to Section 435, or at any time in its discretion, and upon terms it
deems proper: (a) Strike out any irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted
in any
pleading. (b) Strike out all or any part of any pleading not drawn or filed
in conformity with the laws of this state, a court rule, or an order of the
court.” (Id., § 436.) 
REQUESTS
FOR JUDICIAL NOTICE 
              The
Court GRANTS Jorge’s requests for judicial notice. (Evid. Code § 452, subd. (d).)
However, “[t]aking judicial notice of a document is not the same as accepting
the truth of its contents or accepting a particular interpretation of its
meaning.” (Fremont Indem. Co. v. Fremont Gen. Corp. (2007) 148
Cal.App.4th 97, 113.) 
PRELIMINARY ISSUE 
              Plaintiff filed her opposition on
September 30, 2024, and is therefore untimely. (Code Civ. Proc., § 1005, subd.
(b).) Nevertheless, the Court notes that Jorge did not raise this issue in the
reply. Accordingly, the Court will still consider the opposition, but
admonishes Plaintiff to comply with the requirements of the Code of Civil
Procedure going forward. (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1300, subd. (d); Juarez
v. Wash Depot Holdings, Inc. (2018) 24 Cal.App.5th 1197, 1202.) 
DISCUSSION 
Meet and
Confer 
Per Code of Civil Procedure section 435.5, subdivision (a), Jorge
was required to meet and confer in person, by
telephone, or by video conference before bringing this motion to strike. (Code Civ. Proc., § 435.5,
subd. (a).) The
Court finds Jorge’s efforts to meet and confer insufficient, as there is no
indication of any attempt to meet and confer in person, by telephone, or by
video conference. (Mahaffey Decl., ¶ 3.) Nevertheless, the Court may not deny a
motion to strike for failure to adequately meet and confer. (Code Civ. Proc., §
435.5, subd. (a)(4).) The Court will therefore still consider the motion to
strike, but admonishes Jorge to comply with the requirements of the Code of
Civil Procedure going forward. 
              Summary of Arguments 
              Jorge seeks to strike Plaintiff’s notice of errata
filed on September 3, 2024, on the grounds that it is a sham pleading. Jorge
contends the notice of errata improperly attempts to correct the percentage
stock ownership requirement for her involuntary dissolution claims because the
contradiction between alleging 25 percentage and 33 1/3 percent are not
explained. Jorge contends there are no allegations that allow the exclusion of
Richard, Roberto, and Jorge’s shares in calculating Plaintiff’s percentage, and
that the TAC fails to allege facts demonstrating mismanagement for purposes of
subdivision (b)(4) of Corporations Code section 1800. 
              In opposition, Plaintiff contends the motion should be
denied because the notice of errata is not a pleading, and motions to strike
apply to pleadings. Plaintiff contends the Court acknowledged at the hearings
on September 17, 2024, and September 24, 2024, that there was nothing wrong
with the notice of errata, and this motion is therefore unjustified. Plaintiff
contends the notice of errata simply corrects a single numerical error, which
was stated correctly in the First Amended Complaint, and does not contradict
other sections of the TAC. Plaintiff contends the TAC consistently states
Plaintiff owns 25% stock in the corporate Defendants and that her percentage
would be at least 33 1/3 after excluding shares by the brother Defendants.
Plaintiff contends she has alleged mismanagement by the brother Defendants, and
that a dissolution claim does not have to be pleaded with specificity. 
              Analysis 
              The Court finds Jorge’s motion not well taken. While
the Court finds Plaintiff’s argument regarding the applicability of a motion to
strike to a notice of errata unpersuasive, that does not change the outcome of
this motion. The Court made clear at the hearing on Jorge’s demurrer to the TAC
on September 17, 2024, that the notice of errata was not improper because the
33 1/3 language was included in the complaints previously filed. (Compl., ¶¶
17, 29; see also First Amended Complaint, ¶ 32.) Thus, the Court rejects Jorge’s
contention that the notice of errata is a sham pleading. The Court also
sustained the demurrer to the First and Second Causes of Action without leave
to amend as to the individual Defendants, i.e., Richard, Roberto, and Jorge.
(See Order re Tentative Ruling (9/17/24).) Given that the Court sustained the
demurrer without leave to amend as to the two causes of action for involuntary
dissolution against Jorge, whether the notice of errata is proper is now
irrelevant as to Jorge. (See Order re Tentative Ruling (9/17/24).) 
Moreover, with respect to whether Plaintiff has
sufficiently alleged facts demonstrating mismanagement by the brother
Defendants, this is effectively a demurrer argument going to the issue of
whether Plaintiff has stated a cause of action for involuntary dissolution. As
noted above, the Court already sustained the demurrer to the involuntary
dissolution causes of action as they pertain to Jorge and his brothers, so this
argument is irrelevant. Additionally, motions to strike generally do not deal
with causes of action. (Pierson v. Sharp Mem'l Hosp.,
Inc. (1989) 216 Cal.App.3d 340, 342.) 
Furthermore, to the extent there is any contradiction
in the TAC regarding whether Plaintiff owns 25% of the stock or at least 33
1/3%, the Court will permit the parties to sort this out in discovery. (Cf. Chen v. Berenjian (2019) 33 Cal.App.5th 811, 822 [a
demurrer for uncertainty is generally overruled where ambiguities can be
cleared up through discovery].) 
CONCLUSION             
The Court DENIES
Defendant Jorge Rodriguez’s motion to strike. 
Plaintiff is ordered to give notice of this ruling and file proof
of service of same within five calendar days.