  Case Number:  21SMCV00991    Hearing Date:   November 9, 2023    Dept:  207 TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPARTMENT


207




HEARING DATE


November
  9, 2023




CASE NUMBER


21SMCV00991




MOTIONS


Motions
  to Quash Third Party Subpoenas




MOVING PARTY


Plaintiff
  1059Corning, LLC




OPPOSING PARTY


Defendant
  Marmar Corning, LLC



 
BACKGROUND
 
            This lawsuit arises from a dispute
between the owners of adjoining residential properties.  Plaintiff 1059Corning, LLC (“Plaintiff”) alleges
that construction defects in Defendant Marmar Corning, LLC’s (“Defendant”) adjoining
building caused damage to Plaintiff’s building. 

 
Prior to initiating litigation, Plaintiff hired third party
consultants Soil Pacific, Inc. and PSFEG, Inc. to evaluate the damage.  Also prior to initiating litigation,
Plaintiff sent Defendant copies of the consultant reports.  Defendants have sent third party subpoenas to
both Soil Pacific and PSFEG, seeking their respective records pertaining to
Plaintiff’s retention of each of them and records pertaining to their
prelitigation analyses of the subject property. 
 
 
Plaintiff has moved to quash the subpoenas, on the basis that neither
Soil Pacific nor PSFEG has been designated as an expert witness, and therefore,
the requested documents are privileged. 
Defendant has opposed the motions to quash and Plaintiff has replied.
 
PROCEDURAL
REQUIREMENTS
 
1.     
Meet and
Confer
 
            Defendant contends that Plaintiff
did not sufficiently meet and confer prior to filing the Motions to Quash.  (Opp. at pp. 4-5.)  On September 6, 2023, Plaintiff sent
Defendant’s counsel an email asking Defendant to withdraw its subpoenas by
September 7, 2023, or else it would file a motion to quash.  (Coppola Decl. ¶ 11 and Ex. F thereto.)  Plaintiff’s stated basis in the email was
that the third parties were prelitigation consultants that Plaintiff did not
intend to designate as an expert or otherwise rely upon their opinions at
trial.  (Ibid.)  
 
Consistent with the email, Plaintiff filed the instant motions on
September 8, 2023.  (Coppola Decl. ¶
13.)  The parties attended a status
conference on September 13, 2023. 
Subsequently, on September 22, 2023, Defendant sent Plaintiff’s counsel
a meet and confer letter, asking for further information to support their
position that the requested documents were privileged.  (Coppola Decl. ¶ 14 and Ex. H thereto.)  
 
Counsel for Plaintiff and Defendant met and conferred over the phone
on September 29, 2023.  (Coppola Decl. ¶
15.)  
 
Plaintiff argues in reply that motions to quash third party subpoenas
are not part of the Discovery Act, and therefore, there is no meet and confer
requirement.  
 
Under the circumstances presented, the Court does not find that
further meet and confer efforts would be fruitful.
 
2.     
Separate
Statement 
 
            California Rules of Court, rule
3.1345 requires that any motion involving the content of discovery contain a
separate statement with the text of each request, the response, and a statement
of factual and legal reasons for why an order compelling further responses is
warranted.  
 
            Here, Plaintiff has filed separate
statements related to the motions to quash, which complies with Rule 3.1345.
 
ANALYSIS
 
If a subpoena requires the production of documents, the court may
quash the subpoena entirely or modify it. (Code Civ. Proc., § 1987.1, subd.
(a).)  In ruling on a motion to quash,
“the court may in its discretion award the amount of the reasonable expenses
incurred in making or opposing the motion, including reasonable attorney's
fees, if the court finds the motion was made or opposed in bad faith or without
substantial justification or that one or more of the requirements of the
subpoena was oppressive.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 1987.2, subd. (a).)
 
            Plaintiff makes two arguments in
support of the motions: (1) the documents Defendant seeks are all privileged
because the third party companies have not been designated as expert witnesses;
and (2) the information sought is not relevant because the third party
companies are not percipient witnesses.
 
1.     
Privilege
 
In support of its argument that the documents are privileged,
Plaintiff relies on Shadow Traffic Network v. Superior Court (1994) 24
Cal.App.4th 1067, 1079 (hereafter Shadow Traffic), citing Williamson
v. Superior Court (1978) 21 Cal.3d 829, 834-35.)  
 
In Shadow
Traffic, the Court of Appeal held substantial evidence supported the trial
court’s finding that plaintiff’s attorneys had imparted confidential
information subject to protection from subsequent disclosure to an accounting
firm that plaintiff ultimately did not select as an expert witness.
 
The
court noted that confidential communications between an attorney and a
prospective expert could potentially implicate the attorney-client privilege
and the attorney work product doctrine.
 
With
respect to attorney-client privilege, the court noted that communications
between an attorney and a prospective expert witness would be protected if such
disclosure is reasonably necessary to further the attorney’s representation of
the client’s interest, but that “privilege is lost upon designation of the
expert as a witness because the decision to use the expert as a witness
manifests the client’s consent to disclosure of the information.”  (Shadow Traffic, supra, 24 Cal.App.4th
at p. 1079.)  Moreover, to the extent an
expert’s reports “embrace counsel’s impressions and conclusions, the
work-product doctrine gives absolute protection to that information.”  (Ibid.)
 
            Here, the Court notes that while Plaintiff
contends the documents are “privileged,” Plaintiff does not explicitly raise
either the attorney-client privilege or the attorney work product
doctrine.  In any event, neither the
attorney-client privilege nor the attorney work product doctrine apply, because
it was Plaintiff, not Plaintiff’s counsel, who hired both third party
companies.  (Krol Reply Decl. ¶ 3.)  By contrast, in both Shadow Traffic and
Williamson, counsel hired the consultants, not the client-party.  
 
 
            Nor has Plaintiff demonstrated that
it disclosed any confidential information to the consultants.  Critical to the Shadow Traffic
decision was a declaration that counsel “had explicitly told [the accounting
firm] personnel that confidential information was being imparted to them and
that said personnel acknowledged same.” 
(Id. at 1082.)  “Metro’s
counsel then extensively discussed Metro’s litigation and trial strategies,
including an explanation of Metro’s potential damages theories” and the
accounting firm’s personnel “fully participated in a discussion of these
points, offering suggestions and comments on Metro’s damages strategy.”  (Ibid.)  By contrast, here, Plaintiff has not provided
any evidence that it disclosed confidential information to the third party
companies.
 
            Moreover, Plaintiff has not
demonstrated that it disclosed any confidential information to the
consultants.  Critical to the Shadow
Traffic decision was a declaration that counsel “had explicitly told [the
accounting firm] personnel that confidential information was being imparted to
them and that said personnel acknowledged same.”  (Shadow Traffic, supra, 24 Cal.App.4th
at p. 1082.)  “Metro’s counsel then
extensively discussed Metro’s litigation and trial strategies, including an
explanation of Metro’s potential damages theories” and the accounting firm’s
personnel “fully participated in a discussion of these points, offering suggestions
and comments on Metro’s damages strategy.” 
(Ibid.)  By contrast, here,
Plaintiff has not provided any evidence that it disclosed confidential
information to the third party consultants.
 
In
the Reply brief, Plaintiff argued for the first time that it is not asserting
the attorney-client privilege or the attorney work product doctrine.  Instead, Plaintiff contends that the
requested documents and information are privileged under Code of Civ. Procedure
section 411.35, subdivision (b), which applies whenever filing a negligence
complaint against an engineer or similar professional.  Despite the fact that Plaintiff’s motions to
quash cited only to case law involving the attorney-client privilege and
attorney work product doctrine, and Plaintiff did not raise the issue of
section 411.35 until the reply brief, in an abundance of caution, the Court continued
the hearing and permitted the parties to provide additional briefing as to
whether section 411.35 creates a privilege here.
 
Section
411.35 provides, in relevant part:
 
(a)
In every action, including a cross-complaint for damages or indemnity, arising
out of the professional negligence of a person holding a valid architect's
certificate issued pursuant to Chapter 3 (commencing with Section 5500) of
Division 3 of the Business and Professions Code, or of a person holding a valid
registration as a professional engineer issued pursuant to Chapter 7
(commencing with Section 6700) of Division 3 of the Business and Professions
Code, or a person holding a valid land surveyor's license issued pursuant to
Chapter 15 (commencing with Section 8700) of Division 3 of the Business and
Professions Code on or before the date of service of the complaint or
cross-complaint on any defendant or cross-defendant, the attorney for the
plaintiff or cross-complainant shall file and serve the certificate specified
by subdivision (b).
 
(b)
A certificate shall be executed by the attorney for the plaintiff or
cross-complainant declaring one of the following:
 
(1) That the attorney has reviewed the facts of the
case, that the attorney has consulted with and received an opinion from at
least one architect, professional engineer, or land surveyor who is licensed to
practice and practices in this state or any other state, or who teaches at an
accredited college or university and is licensed to practice in this state or
any other state, in the same discipline as the defendant or cross-defendant and
who the attorney reasonably believes is knowledgeable in the relevant issues
involved in the particular action, and that the attorney has concluded on the
basis of this review and consultation that there is reasonable and meritorious
cause for the filing of this action. The person consulted may not be a party to
the litigation. The person consulted shall render his or her opinion that the
named defendant or cross-defendant was negligent or was not negligent in the
performance of the applicable professional services.
 
                                                […]
 
(e)
For purposes of this section, and subject to Section 912 of the Evidence Code,
an attorney who submits a certificate as required by paragraph (1) or (2) of subdivision
(b) has a privilege to refuse to disclose the identity of the architect,
professional engineer, or land surveyor consulted and the contents of the
consultation. The privilege shall also be held by the architect, professional
engineer, or land surveyor so consulted. . . . 
 
“The purpose of
the statute is to “discourag[e] frivolous professional negligence suits against
registered civil engineers” by imposing a sanction on the noncomplying
plaintiff or cross-complainant.”  (UDC-Universal
Development, L.P. v. CH2M Hill (2010) 181 Cal.App.4th 10, 28.)
 
Defendant
argues in supplemental opposition that Plaintiff’s principals hired PSFEG and
Soil Pacific to do analyses and prepare reports about the damage before
Plaintiff’s counsel became involved. 
These reports were also shared, in part, with Defendant prior to
litigation.  Therefore, Defendant argues Plaintiff
cannot use the fact that Plaintiff’s counsel subsequently relied upon these
otherwise nonprivileged and discoverable reports in preparing the certificate of
merit to shield the reports from discovery. 
(Supplemental Opposition Brief at pp. 4-5.)  
 
Defendant
points out that Section 411.35 protects only the identity of consultants
and the contents of the consultation between attorney and consultant, not the
non-privileged investigation reports generated long before any attorney
consultation.  Moreover, Defendant argues
that Plaintiff has not identified whether counsel subsequently met with anyone
from PSFEG and/or Soil Pacific or whether any new information was exchanged,
and has therefore not demonstrated that there is any privileged information at
issue.  Finally, Defendant contends that
because the reports were shared in part with Defendant prior to the litigation,
any privileged was waived in any event.
 
In
supplemental reply, Plaintiff contends (1) the privilege conferred by Section
411.35 precludes Plaintiff from disclosing “what was disclosed during the
consultation”; (2) because Defendant does not dispute that Plaintiff’s counsel
consulted with PSFEG and Soil Pacific or that “the contents of that
consultation are not privileged” the only way Defendant can defeat the motions
to quash is by demonstrating the privilege was waived; but (3) it must be
waived by both the attorney and the consultant, which it was not.[1]
 
Plaintiff,
as the moving party, bears the burden to establish a privilege applies.  Plaintiff has not done so here.  Plaintiff vaguely references Section 411.35
as a reason why PSFEG and Soil Pacific should be precluded from having to
produce any relevant documents or information, including reports regarding
the property damage at issue, commissioned at the request of Plaintiff’s
principals long before counsel got involved, which were also disclosed in part
to Defendant before litigation commenced. 

 
It
is unclear from the record whether Plaintiff’s counsel merely reviewed these pre-existing
reports in doing the due diligence required to prepare the Section 411.35
certification, or whether counsel separately and subsequently consulted with
PSFEG and/or Soil Pacific.  To the extent
Plaintiff attempts to shield these pre-litigation reports commissioned by
Plaintiff’s principals, on the basis that counsel may or may not have
subsequently reviewed them in connection with the due diligence requirements of
Section 411.35, such argument is unpersuasive. 

 
Plaintiff
and its counsel may not shield otherwise discoverable documents and information
by obliquely referencing Section 411.35. 
Even if Plaintiff had concretely established that its counsel reviewed
the reports as part of the Section 411.35 due diligence, Plaintiff’s counsel
may not shield otherwise discoverable third-party documents merely by reviewing
them.  Of course, Plaintiff’s counsel’s
impressions and analyses of the documents would be protected by the attorney
work product doctrine, but Plaintiff has indicated that no attorney-client or
attorney work product privilege applies to the subpoenas at issue.  (See original Reply at p. 3, fn. 2.)  
 
To
the extent Plaintiff’s counsel had a subsequent consultation with PSFEG and/or
Soil Pacific, in furtherance of counsel’s duties under Section 411.35, such
information would presumably be privileged under Section 411.35, as well as by
the attorney work product doctrine, and also likely the attorney-client
privilege, as communications that were reasonably necessary to further the
attorney’s representation of the client’s interest.  But it is Plaintiff’s burden to establish
that such a privilege exists.  Plaintiff
has not provided evidence, or even argued, that Plaintiff’s counsel had any
such subsequent consultation.[2]  Therefore, Plaintiff has not identified any
documents or information that Defendants seek from PSFEG and/or Soil Pacific are
privileged, by Section 411.35 or otherwise.[3]
 
As
such, Plaintiff has not met its burden to establish that the requested
documents are protected from disclosure.
 
2.     
Relevance
 
Plaintiff next argues that the requests are not relevant because the
third party consultants are not percipient witnesses and the requests are too
broad.
 
In support of its second argument, Plaintiff cites to Calcor Space
Facility, Inc. v. Superior Court (1997) 53 Cal.App.4th 216, 224 (hereafter Calcor).)  In Calcor, the requests were so broad,
they amounted to a demand to “produce everything in its possession having
anything to do with gun mounts.”  (Ibid.)  By contrast, here, Defendant seeks documents
pertaining to the third parties’ retention and prelitigation examinations, and
reports pertaining to the subject property. 
Thus, the records would necessarily be relevant to the litigation.
 
Having found that Plaintiff has failed its burden to establish the
requested documents are privileged or irrelevant, the Court denies Plaintiff’s
motions to quash.
 
3.     
Monetary Sanctions
Both
parties seek monetary sanctions.  Because
the Court denies Plaintiff’s Motion to Quash, Defendant acted with substantial
justification in opposing it.  Therefore,
Plaintiff’s request for monetary sanctions is denied.
 
Defendant
requests $2,902.50 in monetary sanctions, representing 1.5 hours meeting and
conferring with Plaintiff, 4 hours reviewing the Motions and drafting the
Oppositions, 1.5 hours analyzing the reply and 3 hours attending the hearing,
and 3.5 hours preparing the supplemental briefing, for a total of 13.5 hours at
a rate of $215.00.  
 
Plaintiff
argues, “Under the circumstances, the Motions to Quash were reasonably made,
and the content of both subpoenas were oppressive.”  (Supp. Reply at p. 2.)  Because the Court rejects all of Plaintiff’s
arguments made in the motion, on reply, and in the supplemental briefing, the
Court finds that Plaintiff did not act with substantial justification in
bringing the Motions to Quash.
 
Therefore,
the Court awards Defendant monetary sanctions in the amount of $2042.50,
representing 1.5 hours to meet and confer, 2 hours to analyze the motions and
draft the Oppositions, 1 hour analyzing the reply, 3 hours to prepare the
supplemental papers and 2 hours attending the hearings, for a total of 9.5
hours at the rate of $215.
CONCLUSION AND ORDER
 
Having found Plaintiff did not
meet its burden to establish that the requested information is privileged or
irrelevant, the Court denies Plaintiff’s motions to quash.  
 
The Court further grants
Defendant’s request for monetary sanctions in the amount of $2042.50.  Plaintiff’s counsel[4]
shall pay Defendant $2042.50 in monetary sanctions, by and through counsel for
Defendant, on or before November 30, 2023.  

 
Plaintiff shall provide notice
of the Court’s ruling and file a proof of service regarding the same.
 
DATED: November 9, 2023                                                   ___________________________
Michael E. Whitaker
                                                                                          Judge
of the Superior Court
 
 
 


