 Case Number:  22SMCV01313    Hearing Date:   November 9, 2023    Dept:  207 TENTATIVE
RULING 
 



DEPARTMENT


207




HEARING DATE


November
  9, 2023




CASE NUMBER


22SMCV01313




MOTION


Demurrer
  to First Amended Complaint




MOVING PARTY


Defendant
  Michael Keyes DBA Global Ocean and Land Construction




OPPOSING PARTY


Plaintiff
  Glenn Vallecillos M.D., Inc.



 
MOTION
 
This case stems from a dispute over the remodel of Plaintiff Glenn
Vallecillos, M.D., Inc.’s (“Plaintiff”) surgical center.  Defendant Michael Keyes DBA Global Ocean Land
Construction (“Defendant” or “Keyes”) demurs to the third and fourth causes of
action of the First Amended Complaint (“FAC”) for failure to state a cause of
action under Code of Civil Procedure, section 430.10, subd. (e), as well as to
the entire complaint for misjoinder of parties, pursuant to subdivision (d) and
uncertainty pursuant to subdivision (f)[1].  Defendant also objects to the FAC as
procedurally defective for adding new parties and causes of action without
leave of court.  
 
Plaintiff opposes the demurrer and Defendant replies.
 
EVIDENTIARY
OBJECTIONS
 
            Defendant objects to the Declaration
of David Glaubiger and the proposed Second Amended Complaint filed in
opposition to the demurrer on the basis that it is improperly filed for the
purpose of harassment, is frivolous, and wastes the Courts’ and the parties’
resources.   
 
            Extrinsic evidence is generally improper,
and the Court will not consider the extrinsic evidence with respect to its
determination of the demurrers.  However,
to the extent Plaintiff has presented the Court with additional facts it could
add to cure any deficiencies identified in the operative complaint, the Court
may properly consider such additional facts in determining whether granting
Plaintiff leave to amend is proper.
 
            Therefore, the Court overrules
Defendant’s objections to the Glaubiger Declaration and proposed Second Amended
Complaint, in accordance with these principles.
 
OBJECTION
TO DEMURRER
 
            Plaintiff objects to Defendant’s
demurrer for failure to distinctly specify the grounds upon which each
objection to the complaint is based pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section
430.60.  Defendant’s notice of demurrer indicates
it is brought to the entire FAC on the grounds of uncertainty and misjoinder of
parties, and the third and fourth cause of action for failure to state a cause
of action.  Defendant’s notice also
indicates Defendant objects to the FAC as procedurally improper for exceeding
the scope of the Court’s leave.  To the
extent Defendant’s briefing contains other arguments, the Court will disregard
them as not properly noticed.
 
ANALYSIS
 
1.      DEMURRER
 
“It is black letter law that a demurrer tests the legal sufficiency of
the allegations in a complaint.”  (Lewis v. Safeway, Inc. (2015)
235 Cal.App.4th 385, 388.)  In testing the sufficiency of a cause of
action, a court accepts “[a]s true all material facts properly pled and matters
which may be judicially noticed but disregard contentions, deductions or
conclusions of fact or law.  [A court
also gives] the complaint a reasonable interpretation, reading it as a whole
and its parts in their context.”  (290
Division (EAT), LLC v. City & County of San Francisco (2022) 86
Cal.App.5th 439, 450 [cleaned up]; Hacker v. Homeward Residential, Inc.
(2018) 26 Cal.App.5th 270, 280 [“in considering the merits of a demurrer,
however, “the facts alleged in the pleading are deemed to be true, however
improbable they may be”].)
 
Further, in ruling on a demurrer, a court must “liberally construe”
the allegations of the complaint “with a view to substantial justice between
the parties.”  (See Code Civ. Proc., §
452.)  “This rule of liberal construction
means that the reviewing court draws inferences favorable to the plaintiff, not
the defendant.”  (Perez v. Golden Empire Transit Dist. (2012) 209
Cal.App.4th 1228, 1238.)   
 
In summary, “[d]etermining whether the complaint is sufficient as
against the demurrer on the ground that it does not state facts sufficient to
constitute a cause of action, the rule is that if one consideration of all the
facts stated it appears the plaintiff is entitled to any relief at the hands of
the court against the defendants the complaint will be held good although the
facts may not be clearly stated, or may be intermingled with a statement of
other facts irrelevant to the cause of action shown, or although the plaintiff
may demand relief to which he is not entitled under the facts alleged.”  (Gressley v. Williams (1961) 193 Cal.App.2d
636, 639.)
 
A.   
UNCERTAINTY
 
A demurrer for uncertainty will be sustained only where the pleading
is so bad that the responding party cannot reasonably respond - i.e., he or she
cannot reasonably determine what issues must be admitted or denied, or what
claims are directed against him or her. 
(Khoury v. Maly’s of California (1993) 14 Cal.App.4th 612,
616.)  Where a demurrer is made upon the
ground of uncertainty, the demurrer must distinctly specify exactly how or why
the pleading is uncertain, and where such uncertainty appears by reference to
page and line numbers.  (See Fenton
v. Groveland Comm. Services Dist. (1982) 135 Cal.App.3d 797, 809.)  
 
Although Defendant characterizes the FAC as “confusing, inconsistent, and
uncertain” as well as “baseless” and “shotgun blasts,” the Court finds the FAC
clearly delineates among the parties, the role each party played, and the
allegations being made and causes of action being brought as to each
party.  Defendant does not demonstrate
that any portions of the FAC are so bad that Defendant cannot reasonably
determine what issues must be admitted or denied, or what claims are directed
against Defendant.  The Court thus
declines to sustain Defendant’s demurrer to the FAC on the basis of
uncertainty.  
 
B.    
FAILURE TO STATE A CAUSE OF ACTION
 
                                                                   
i.           
Third Cause
of Action – Intentional Misrepresentation
 
“The elements of intentional misrepresentation are (1) a
misrepresentation, (2) knowledge of falsity, (3) intent to induce reliance, (4)
actual and justifiable reliance, and (5) resulting damage.”  (Aton Center, Inc. v. United Healthcare
Ins. Co. (2023) 93 Cal.App.5th 1214, 1245.)
 
“In California, fraud must be
pled specifically; general and conclusory allegations do not suffice.”  (Lazar v. Superior Court (1996) 12
Cal.4th 631, 645.)  “This particularity
requirement necessitates pleading facts which show how, when, where, to whom,
and by what means the representations were tendered.”  (Ibid.)  
 
“One of the purposes of the
specificity requirement is notice to the defendant, to furnish the defendant
with certain definite charges which can be intelligently met.”  (Alfaro v. Community Housing Improvement
System & Planning Assn., Inc. (2009) 171 Cal.App.4th 1356, 1384, as
modified on denial of reh'g (Mar. 18, 2009).) 
As such, less specificity is required “when it appears from the nature
of the allegations that the defendant must necessarily possess full information
concerning the facts of the controversy[.]” 
(Ibid.)  “Even under the
strict rules of common law pleading, one of the canons was that less
particularity is required when the facts lie more in the knowledge of the
opposite party.”  (Ibid.)
 
Defendant appears to contest
the truth of the allegations themselves. 
(Demurrer at p. 6 [“Again, plaintiff falsely claims he hired defendant
to do the remodel, when the facts prove differently.”])  But for purposes of a demurrer, the Court must
accept as true all allegations in the operative complaint.
 
            Here,
Plaintiff alleges the following:
 
     11.       In the Spring of
2021, plaintiff’s principals met with defendant Keyes to discuss hiring
defendant Keyes to remodel a surgical center located on the Subject
Property.  Prior to hiring defendant
Keyes, defendant Keyes tendered the following representations:
 
                 1.         Defendant
was a properly licensed contractor.
                 2.         Defendant
had fully reviewed the remodel plans and specifications.
                 3.         Defendant
was fully capable of and would make all repairs set forth in the 
plans and
specifications.
                 4.         Defendant
and his employees/workers were covered by policy of worker’s 
compensation
insurance.
 
     12.       Based on
defendant Keyes’ representations, plaintiff agreed to hire defendant Keyes to
remodel the surgical center.  As a
pre-condition thereto, defendant Keyes was required to have in place certain
insurance coverage, i.e. (1) general commercial liability insurance and (2)
worker’s compensation insurance.  As a
further precondition, Defendant Keyes was required to add plaintiff and
plaintiff’s landlord as additional insured’s on these policies.
 
     13.       Pursuant thereto,
in order to show compliance with the above pre-conditions regarding worker’s
compensation insurance, etc., plaintiff is informed and believes defendants
Keyes, Pacific and Turner entered into an agreement whereby defendants Pacific
and Turner would create false insurance documentation (stating that defendant Keyes
was ‘in fact’ covered by a policy of worker’s compensation insurance).  Pursuant to this agreement, defendants
Pacific and Turner “created” a Certificate of Insurance bearing the date
4-1-22.  This Certificate of Insurance
identifies the insured as “Global Ocean and Land Construction” (defendant
Keyes’ fictitious business name) and falsely states that defendant Keyes is
insured under a policy of worker’s compensation insurance, Policy No. 9217479-2021.  This Certificate of Insurance also includes
language that defendant Keyes maintained a general commercial liability policy
of insurance and that plaintiff was added as an additional insured on this
policy.  A true and correct copy of the
Certificate of Insurance is attached hereto as Exhibit A and is incorporated
herein by this reference.
 
14.            In light thereof, Plaintiff agreed to hire defendant
Keyes to remodel the surgical center. 
Plaintiff agreed to and made payment on defendant Keyes’ construction
contract, as well as a series of change orders.[2]  True and correct copies of all such
agreements are collectively attached hereto as Exhibit B and are
incorporated herein by this reference.  
 
15.            In response to defendant Keyes' demands for payment that
were directed to plaintiff, during the period of June 2021 through January
2022, plaintiff made payments to defendant Keyes totaling $258,020.00. All of
these funds were paid by plaintiff within the three 11 years preceding the
filing of this suit. Proof of such payment is attached hereto as Exhibit
C. 
 
16.            During the period of June 2021 through October 2021,
defendant Keyes provided construction workers/employees and materials and
commenced the remodel. Notwithstanding the cost of the construction and
applicable building code, defendant Keyes failed to obtain any building
permits, performed work without worker's compensation insurance for all
workers/employees (discussed below), installed electrical wiring in a faulty
manner, incorrectly installed drywall, among many other negligent acts and
omissions. Further, defendant Keyes deviated from plans and specifications and
sold defective products to plaintiff, e.g. defective nurse call station and
defective vacuum pump. 
 
17.            In December 2021, defendant abandoned the job prior to
completion. As a result, plaintiff was forced to locate and hire alternate
contractors to complete the construction. Hiring 22 alternate contractors to
complete construction increased plaintiff’s construction costs by a 23 minimum
of $1 00,000.00.
 
18. After hiring alternate
contractors, plaintiff learned that much of defendant's construction was
defective and required remediation/repair. Such remediation/repair costs were
in excess of $100,000.00. 
 
19. Shortly after defendant
abandoned the construction, plaintiff discovered that defendant Keyes removed
materials from the job site without plaintiff’s consent or approval, e.g.  2 scrub sinks and associated plumbing, etc.
Despite demand for return of such items, defendant Keyes refused and failed to
return these items. 
 
20. Recently, plaintiff learned
that defendant Keyes has not had a policy of worker's compensation insurance
since July 2003. A true and correct copy of defendant's worker's compensation
history as registered with the CSLB is attached hereto as Exhibit D
and is incorporated by herein by this reference.  
 
21. In August 2022, after
plaintiff had paid defendant Keyes upwards of $250,000, defendants Pacific and
Turner provided plaintiff with a revised Certificate of Insurance. The revised
Certificate of Insurance removed all statements regarding coverage for worker's
compensation insurance, at any time during the course of the construction. A
true and correct copy of the revised Insurance Certificate is attached hereto
as Exhibit E and is incorporated by herein by this reference.
 
                 […]
 
31.            Defendant Keyes intentionally failed to disclose to
Plaintiff, among other things, 21 the following material facts: 
 
A.             Neither Defendant Keyes, nor his employees/workers were
covered under 23 a policy of worker's compensation insurance at any time during
the course 24 of the above-described construction. 
 
B.  The portion of the provided Certificate of Insurance representing to
plaintiff that defendant Keyes was covered by a policy of worker's compensation
insurance was false.
 
32.            Further, defendant Keyes intentionally tendered to
plaintiff the following false statements: 
 
A.    Defendant
and his workers were covered by a Policy of worker's compensation insurance
that was active during the period of September 2020 through September 2021. 
 
33.            The information described above was material to any
reasonable person's decision to take the actions herein alleged, e.g. agree to
retain Keyes to remodel the surgical center and make substantial payments to
defendant Keyes. 
 
34.            Defendants Keyes intentionally did not advise Plaintiff of
the truth of the above described material facts. 
 
35.            Defendants Keyes tendered the above identified false
statements knowing they were false and with the intent to induce plaintiffs
reliance thereon, e.g. agree to retain Keyes to remodel of the surgical center,
make payments to Keyes, etc. Knowing the true fact that he did not carry
worker's compensation insurance, defendant Keyes failed to disclose the above
stated material facts with the intent to lull plaintiff into the false belief that
defendant Keyes had a policy of worker's compensation insurance that provided
coverage for Keyes and his workers/employees during the course of construction.

 
36.            Plaintiff, in reasonable reliance thereon, took the
actions herein alleged. 
 
37.            At all times pertinent hereto, the tendered
representations were in fact false and were known to be false by defendant
Keyes. Plaintiff was ignorant of the falsity of these representations. Had
Plaintiff known the truth, Plaintiff would not have taken the actions herein
alleged, e.g. entered into the agreements and change orders referenced herein,
made payment thereon, etc. 
 
38.            As a consequence of the above described material omissions
and misrepresentations, Plaintiff has been generally damaged in a sum to be
proven at the time of trial, but in excess of $250,000, plus interest, costs,
attorney's fees (Bus and Prof Code §7160), and expenses.
 
            Thus,
Plaintiff has alleged all the elements of intentional misrepresentation with
requisite specificity.
 
                                                                 
ii.           
Fourth Cause of Action – Negligent Misrepresentation
 
“The essential elements of a
count for negligent misrepresentation are the same except that it does not
require knowledge of falsity but instead requires a misrepresentation of fact
by a person who has no reasonable grounds for believing it to be true.”  (Chapman v. Skype Inc. (2013) 220
Cal.App.4th 217, 230-231 (hereafter Chapman).)  Like intentional misrepresentation, causes of
action for negligent misrepresentation sound in fraud, and must also,
therefore, be pleaded with particularity. 
(Ibid.)  
 
As to the Fourth Cause of Action, Plaintiff additionally alleges:
 
40.            At the times Defendant Keyes tendered the above-described
misrepresentations defendant Keyes had no reasonable factual basis for
believing them to be true. 
 
41.            Defendant Keyes tendered the above described
representations to plaintiff with the intent to induce plaintiff's reliance
thereon, i.e. agreement to hire Keyes to remodel of the surgical center, make
payment to defendant Keyes, etc. Defendants Keyes' representations lulled
plaintiff into the false belief that Keyes and his workers/employees were
covered by a worker's compensation insurance policy during the entire course of
construction and that the provided insurance certificate purporting to provide
worker's compensation insurance coverage contained accurate information - which
it did not. 
 
42.            Plaintiff, in reasonable reliance thereon, took the
actions herein alleged. 
 
43.            At all times pertinent hereto, Plaintiff was ignorant of the
falsity of the representations described above, and believing them to be true,
reasonably relied thereon in doing the things herein alleged. 
 
44.            As a result thereof, Plaintiff has been damaged in an
amount to be proven at the 19 time of trial, but in excess of $250,000.00.
 
Thus, Plaintiff alleges that at the time Keyes misrepresented that he
had insurance, he either knew that he did not have worker’s compensation
insurance, or had no reasonable basis to think that he did.  As such, Plaintiff has pleaded a cause of
action for negligent misrepresentation with sufficient particularity.
 
C.    MISJOINDER
OF PARTIES/PROCEDURAL DEFECTS
 
Anyone who has a “claim, right, or interest adverse to them in the
property or controversy which is the subject of the action” may be joined as
defendant. (Code Civ. Proc., § 379, subd. (a)(2).) A demurrer for misjoinder
will lie only where it appears from the face of the complaint or matters
judicially noticeable that either plaintiffs lack sufficient unity of interest
(Code Civ. Proc., § 378) or there is no common question of law or fact as to
the defendants (Code Civ. Proc., § 379). (Weil & Brown, Cal. Practice
Guide: Civil Procedure Before Trial (The Rutter Group 2023) ¶ 7:78 et seq., p. 7(I)-42
et seq.)
 
Defendant’s misjoinder and procedural defect arguments are the same –
that “plaintiff has unlawfully added causes of action and additional parties
without the required leave of court, also lacking service of a new
summons.”  (Demurrer at pp. 7-8.)  However, Defendant does not specifically identify
which additional parties or causes of action were added without Court
authorization, or how or why this constitutes misjoinder of parties.  
 
Notwithstanding, a review of the record demonstrates that on April 13,
2023, the Court sustained Defendant’s demurrer to the intentional and negligent
misrepresentation causes of with leave to amend.  (See Minute Order of April 13, 2023.)  Yet, to the extent that Defendant claims that
Plaintiff’s FAC was not drawn in conformance with the Court’s April 13, 2023
order, Defendant should have filed a motion to strike as opposed to a demurrer
which is procedurally improper in this context. 
(See Weil & Brown, Cal. Practice Guide: Civil Procedure Before Trial
(The Rutter Group 2023) ¶ 7:174, p. 7(I)-78 [“CCP § 436(b) is commonly invoked
to challenge pleadings filed in violation of a deadline or court order or
requirement of prior leave of court. [Ferraro v. Camarlinghi, supra, 161
CA4th at 528, 75 CR3d at 34] . . . Amended complaint alleging facts beyond
permissible scope of amendment”].)   
 
CONCLUSION AND ORDER
 
For the reasons stated, the Court overrules Defendant’s Demurrer in
its entirety and orders Defendant to file and serve an Answer to the FAC on or
before November 30, 2023.
 
Defendant shall provide notice of the Court’s ruling and file a proof
of service regarding the same.  
 
 
DATED:  November 9, 2023                                                  ___________________________
                                                                                          Michael
E. Whitaker
                                                                                          Judge
of the Superior Court


