 Case Number:  23STCV31619    Hearing Date:   May 30, 2024    Dept:  71 Superior
Court of California
County
of Los Angeles
 
DEPARTMENT 71
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



MIRIAM MOTTA,  
  
         vs.
 
ESTRELLA
  RADIO BROADCASTING OF CALIFORNIA LLC, et al. 


 Case No.: 23STCV31619
 
 
 
 Hearing Date:  May 30, 2024



 
Defendants
Estrella Radio Broadcasting of California LLC’s and Estrella Media, Inc.’s special
motion to strike Plaintiff Miriam Motta’s 3rd cause of action for retaliation
against them in her Complaint is granted.  Defendants may separately move for an award of
attorneys’ fees and costs.  
 
Defendants Estrella
Radio Broadcasting of California LLC and Estrella Media, Inc. (collectively, “EMI”)
(collectively, “Defendants”) move for a special motion to strike the 3rd cause
of action for retaliation in Plaintiff Miriam Motta’s (“Motta”) (“Plaintiff”)
Complaint alleged against them.  (Notice
of Motion, pgs. 2-3; C.C.P. §425.16.) 
Defendants also move to recover their attorneys’ fees and costs under
the lodestar formula by way of a separate motion should the instant motion be
granted.  (Notice of Motion, pg. 3;
C.C.P. §425.16(c).)
 
CRC Violations
CRC Rule 3.1354(b) provides,
in part:
All
written objections to evidence must be served and filed separately from the
other papers in support of or in opposition to the motion. Objections to
specific evidence must be referenced by the objection number in the right
column of a separate statement in opposition or reply to a motion, but the
objections must not be restated or reargued in the separate statement. Each
written objection must be numbered consecutively.
 
(CRC, Rule 3.1345(b),
emphasis added.) 
Plaintiff’s and Defendants’
objections are in violation of CRC, Rule 3.1345(b) because they are not numbered
consecutively.  To avoid confusion, the
Court numbers Plaintiff’s and Defendants’ objections consecutively based on the
evidence subject to objection.
 
Evidentiary Objections
Plaintiff’s 5/16/24
evidentiary objections to the Declaration of Steve Mandala (“Mandala”) are
overruled as to Nos. 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, and 9.
Defendants’ 5/22/24
evidentiary objections to the Declaration of Miriam Motta (“Motta”) are
overruled as to Nos. 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17,
18, 19, 20, 21, 22, 23, 24, 25, 26, 27, 28, 29, 30, 31, 32, 33, 34, 35, 36, 37,
38, 39, 40, 41, 42, 43, 44, 45, 46, 47, 48, 49, and 50.
Defendants’ 5/22/24
evidentiary objections to the Declaration of Ruben Escalante (“Escalante”) are
overruled as to Nos. 1 and 2.
 
Background 
          This matter involves Plaintiff’s employment by Defendants,
which began on or about June 1, 2016, as am Account Executive.  (See Complaint ¶¶12, 14.)  Plaintiff alleges Defendants have paid
Plaintiff less than her male counterpart, L.A., who has performed substantially
similar work as Plaintiff, when viewed as a composite of skill, effort, and responsibility,
under similar working conditions.  (Complaint ¶13.)  Plaintiff alleges L.A. has earned tens of
thousands of dollars more than Plaintiff.  (Complaint ¶13.)  Plaintiff alleges she brought this pay
disparity to the attention of Defendants, but they did not increase her pay to
match her male counterpart or compensate her for the past pay disparity.  (Complaint ¶13.)  Plaintiff alleges on information and belief
that other women are similarly underpaid at Defendants, and such pay disparities
are the result of disparate impact and/or treatment based on sex.  (Complaint ¶13.)  Plaintiff alleges since the time Plaintiff raised
her concern regarding her pay disparity, Defendants have refused to give her an
appropriate pay increase.  (Complaint
¶13.)  Plaintiff alleges on information
and belief, a substantial motivating reason for this decision is because
Plaintiff raised her concern regarding her pay disparity and discrimination.  (Complaint ¶13.)  
Plaintiff alleges on or about
June 1, 2016, Plaintiff was hired by Estrella Media, Inc. (which at that time
was known as Liberman Broadcasting, Inc.) as an Account Executive.  (Complaint ¶14.)  Plaintiff alleges on or about July 31, 2019,
Estrella Media, Inc. promoted Plaintiff to Local Sales Manager in Burbank,
California.  (Complaint ¶14.)  Plaintiff alleges as a Local Sales Manager
she was responsible for managing and leading a sales team; together they sold
radio airtime to advertisers.  (Complaint
¶14.)
Plaintiff alleges on or about
May 1, 2020, on information and belief, Estrella Media, Inc. transferred
Plaintiff to Estrella Radio Broadcasting of California, LLC (which had formerly
been known as Liberman Broadcasting of California LLC), which hired her, to
continue her job as a Local Sales Manager. 
(Complaint ¶15.)  Plaintiff
alleges on information and belief that she worked for both Defendants.  (Complaint ¶15.)
Plaintiff alleges on
information and belief that thereafter, Defendants hired L.A. as an Account Executive.
 (Complaint ¶16.)  Plaintiff alleges Defendant Employers
promoted L.A. and he became a Local Sales Manager.  (Complaint ¶16.)  Plaintiff alleges on information and belief
that L.A. is a male.  (Complaint
¶16.)  Plaintiff alleges as a Local Sales
Manager, L.A. was also responsible for managing and leading a sales team;
together they sold television airtime to advertisers.  (Complaint ¶16.)  Plaintiff alleges on information and belief
that Defendants paid L.A. more than Plaintiff as a Local Sales Manager, even
though as Local Sales Managers, L.A. and Plaintiff performed substantially
similar work, when viewed as a composite of skill, effort, and responsibility, under
similar working conditions.  (Complaint
¶16.)  Plaintiff alleges on information
and belief that Defendants did nothing to audit or equalize the pay of
Plaintiff and L.A, or to otherwise ensure that they were paid in conformity
with the law.  (Complaint ¶16.)
Plaintiff alleges that
thereafter, Defendants merged Plaintiff’s and L.A.’s responsibilities such that
they and their respective teams now sold both television and radio airtime to
advertisers.  (Complaint ¶17.)  Plaintiff alleges their work became more than
substantially similar; their work became essentially identical, when viewed as
a composite of skill, effort, and responsibility, under similar working
conditions.  (Complaint ¶17.)  Plaintiff alleges on information and belief
that Defendants still did nothing to audit or equalize the pay of Plaintiff and
L.A, or to otherwise ensure that they were paid in conformity with the law, and
L.A. continued to get paid more than Plaintiff. 
(Complaint ¶17.)
Plaintiff alleges in or about
August 2022, L.A. shared with Plaintiff how much he got paid, confirming that he
got paid significantly more than Plaintiff. 
(Complaint ¶18.)  Plaintiff
alleges in or about 2023, Plaintiff learned that other women at Defendants were
compensated less than men at the company. (Complaint ¶19.)  Plaintiff alleges she also observed the
disparity in the way at least one male executive treated L.A. during business
meetings compared to the way that male executive treated women; for example,
Plaintiff observed the male executive talk in a condescending tone toward women
but did not observe that same treatment of L.A.; in fact, Plaintiff observed
the male executive regularly strike a friendly tone with L.A.  (Complaint ¶19.)  Plaintiff alleges she raised these concerns
with other employees of Defendants, including members of management, but
nothing was done.  (Complaint ¶19.)
Plaintiff alleges on or about
July 26, 2023, Plaintiff raised her concerns about her compensation with the
assistance of an attorney.  (Complaint
¶20.)  Plaintiff alleges that in her
attorney’s letter that she expressed that she believed she was not paid the
same as men for substantially similar work and that her pay inequality may be
based on her sex.  (Complaint ¶20.)  Plaintiff alleges she expressed that she
would like to engage in a meaningful dialogue to determine whether the pay
disparity could be explained, and any inequity resolved.  (Complaint ¶20.)  Plaintiff alleges she also stated that if her
concerns could not be resolved, then she might raise her concerns and the
potential violations of the law with the appropriate government agency or other
appropriate forum.  (Complaint ¶20.)  Plaintiff alleges in response, Defendants did
not resolve her concern or raise her pay. 
(Complaint ¶20.)  Plaintiff
alleges on information and belief that Defendants did not take immediate and
corrective action to determine whether Plaintiff and other women were paid in
conformity with the law.  (Complaint
¶20.)  
Plaintiff alleges that
because her concerns had still not been resolved, on October 20, 2023,
Plaintiff took matters into her own hands, and raised her concerns directly to
Defendants’ human resources department in an email to L.M-P., Defendant
Employers’ Senior HR Manager.  (Complaint
¶20.)  Plaintiff alleges that in her
email she stated as follows:
Hi [L.],
 
I hope you are doing well. I am writing to discuss an
important matter. I believe that there is a pay disparity, and I am seeking
your assistance in addressing it.
 
As an employee of Estrella, I have always strived to
contribute to the organization and its goals. Throughout my tenure, I have demonstrated
my dedication to the company and have taken on additional responsibilities that
have contributed to our success.
 
There is a discrepancy in compensation within our
organization. I believe I am not paid the same as my male counterpart in
Burbank for substantially similar work and that this pay inequality is based on
my sex. I have reason to believe that there are other pay disparities based on
sex within our workforce.
 
I request that my compensation package be made the same as
my male counterpart in Burbank. Also, I would appreciate transparency in this
process, including access to information about the compensation structure
within our organization and any relevant benchmarking data.
 
I am willing to work with you to ensure a fair solution. My
goal is to rectify my situation and contribute to a more equitable workplace
for all employees at Estrella Media.
 
We can resolve this matter effectively with your support and
commitment to fairness.
 
Thank you for your attention to this critical issue. I am
looking forward to hearing from you.
 
I request that my concerns be resolved by November 3, 2023.
 
Sincerely,
 
[Miriam Motta]
 
(Complaint ¶21.)
          Plaintiff alleges she did not receive any response from
L.M-P. or anyone in Defendants’ HR department.  (Complaint ¶22.)  Plaintiff alleges on information and belief
that Defendants still did not take immediate and corrective action to determine
whether Plaintiff and other women were paid in conformity with the law.  (Complaint ¶22.)  
Plaintiff alleges that rather
than take legitimate steps toward correcting the disparity in Plaintiff’s and
other women’s pay, in response to Plaintiff raising her concerns through her
attorney and directly to human resources, Defendants, including members of
management, expressed to Plaintiff that they knew Plaintiff was not properly
paid, expressed that Defendant Employers’ response to her raising her concerns was
deficient, discouraged her from seeking counsel from her attorney and
exercising her rights, insulted her, and pressured her to sign a release in
exchange for her requested pay raise. 
(Complaint ¶23.)  Plaintiff
alleges that when she protested that she should not be forced to sign a release
in exchange for the pay raise, she was told that she needed to sign a release
because she raised claims against Defendants, and she would not get the pay
raise otherwise.  (Complaint ¶23.)  
Plaintiff alleges on or about
September 22, 2023, and again on December 27, 2023, Plaintiff exhausted her administrative
remedies by timely filing a complaint with the Department of Fair Employment
and Housing regarding the claims alleged herein.  (Complaint ¶24.)  Plaintiff alleges that per her request, an immediate
right-to-sue letter was issued on September 22, 2023.  (Complaint ¶24.)
Plaintiff filed her operative
Complaint against Defendants on December 27, 2023, alleging five causes of
action: (1) violation of the California Equal Pay Act (Lab. Code §1197.5); (2) FEHA
Sex Discrimination (Gov. Code §12940(a)); (3) FEHA Retaliation (Gov. Code §12940(h));
(4) FEHA Failure to Prevent (Gov. Code §12940(k); and (5) Private Attorneys’
General Act of 2004 (Lab. Code §§2698 et seq.).[1]  (See Complaint.) 
On February 28, 2024, Defendants
filed the instant motion.  On May 16,
2024, Plaintiff filed her opposition.  On
May 22, 2024, Defendants filed their reply. 

 
Special Motion to Strike
          “Litigation of an anti-SLAPP motion involves a two-step
process. First, ‘the moving defendant bears the burden of establishing that the
challenged allegations or claims ‘aris[e] from’ protected activity in which the
defendant has engaged.’ [Citation.] Second, for each claim that does arise from
protected activity, the plaintiff must show the claim has “at least ‘minimal
merit.’ [Citation.]”  (Bonni v. St.
Joseph Health System (2021) 11 Cal.5th 995, 1009, citations omitted.)  As to the second step inquiry, a plaintiff
seeking to demonstrate the merit of the claim “may not rely solely on its
complaint, even if verified; instead, its proof must be made upon competent
admissible evidence.”  (Sweetwater Union High School District v.
Gilbane Building Co. (2019) 6 Cal.5th 931, 940, citations omitted.)
A defendant opposing a
special motion to strike has the burden to “state [] and substantiate [] a
legally sufficient claim.”  (Navellier
v. Sletten (2002) 29 Cal.4th 82, 88 & 93.)  “‘Put another way, the defendant “must
demonstrate that the complaint is both legally sufficient and supported by a
sufficient prima facie showing of facts to sustain a favorable judgment if the
evidence submitted by the defendant is credited.”’ [Citations.]”  (Id. at pgs. 88-89.)  To that end, the defendant must present
competent evidence, “that would be admissible at trial.”  (HMS Capital, Inc. v. Lawyers Title Co.
(2004) 118 Cal.App.4th 204, 212.)  “[D]eclarations
may not be based upon ‘information and belief’ [citation]” and documents
submitted without the proper foundation will not be considered.  (Id.) 
The complaint, even if verified, is insufficient to carry the plaintiff’s
shifted burden.  (Roberts v. Los
Angeles County Bar Association (2003) 105 Cal.App.4th 604, 614; Karnazes
v. Ares (2016) 244 Cal.App.4th 344, 354 [“pleadings do not constitute
evidence”]; see also Burke, Anti-SLAPP Litigation (The Rutter Group,
Civil Litigation Series 2018 §5:13) [“To satisfy prong two, the plaintiff must
submit admissible evidence that if credited is sufficient to sustain a
favorable judgment against the legal theories asserted by the defendant.”].)
 
Prong One: Arising from
Protected Activity
“A cause of action is subject
to a special motion to strike if the defendant shows that the cause of action
arises from an act in furtherance of the defendant’s constitutional right of
petition or free speech in connection with a public issue and the plaintiff
fails to demonstrate a probability of prevailing on the claim. [Citations.]”  (Digerati
Holdings, LLC v. Young Money Entertainment, LLC (2011) 194 Cal.App.4th 873,
883.) 
“An ‘act in furtherance of a
person’s right of petition or free speech under the United States or California
Constitution in connection with a public issue’ is defined by statute to
include ‘(1) any written or oral statement or writing made before a legislative,
executive, or judicial proceeding, or any other official proceeding authorized
by law, (2) any written or oral statement or writing made in connection with an
issue under consideration or review by a legislative, executive, or judicial
body, or any other official proceeding authorized by law, (3) any written or
oral statement or writing made in a place open to the public or a public forum
in connection with an issue of public interest, or (4) any other conduct in
furtherance of the exercise of the constitutional right of petition or the
constitutional right of free speech in connection with a public issue or an
issue of public interest.’  [Citation.]
If the defendant shows that the cause of action arises from a statement
described in clause (1) or (2) of section 425.16, subdivision (e), the defendant is not
required to separately demonstrate that the statement was made in connection
with a ‘public issue.’ [Citation.]”  (Id.)
“A cause of action is one
‘arising from’ protected activity within the meaning of section 425.16,
subdivision (b)(1) only if the defendant’s act on which the cause of action is
based was an act in furtherance of the defendant’s constitutional right of
petition or free speech in connection with a public issue. [Citation.] In
deciding whether the ‘arising from’ requirement is satisfied, ‘the court shall
consider the pleadings, and supporting and opposing affidavits stating the
facts upon which the liability or defense is based.’ [(C.C.P. §425.16(b)(2).)]
Whether the ‘arising from’ requirement is satisfied depends on the ‘gravamen or
principal thrust’ of the claim. [Citations.] A cause of action does not arise
from protected activity for purposes of the anti-SLAPP statute if the protected
activity is merely incidental to the cause of action. [Citations.]”  (Digerati
Holdings, LLC, 194
Cal.App.4th at pgs. 883-884,
citations omitted.)  To show that a claim
arises from protected activity under §425.16(b)(1), it is not sufficient to
show that the claim “was filed after, or because of, protected activity, or
when protected activity merely provides evidentiary support or context for the
claim.”  (Rand Resources, LLC v. City
of Carson (2019) 6 Cal.5th 610, 621.)  “Rather, the protected activity must ‘supply
elements of the challenged claim.’ [Citation.]”  (Id., citations omitted.)
“At the first step, the
moving defendant bears the burden of identifying all allegations of protected
activity, and the claims for relief supported by them. When relief is sought
based on allegations of both protected and unprotected activity, the
unprotected activity is disregarded at this stage.”  (Baral
v. Schnitt (2016) 1 Cal.5th 376, 396, emphasis added.)  
Defendants argue Plaintiff’s cause
of action for retaliation is based on prelitigation settlement communications
protected by the anti-SLAPP statute.  (Motion,
pgs. 8-9.)
 
Statements or Writing Made in Connection
with an Issue Under Consideration or Review by a Judicial Body (C.C.P.
§425.16(e)(2))
Defendants met their burden to
show the third of action for FEHA Retaliation in Plaintiff’s Complaint arises
from an “act in furtherance of a person’s right of petition or free
speech under the United States or California Constitution in connection with a
public issue.”  (C.C.P. §§425.16(b), (e).)  
Plaintiff’s cause of action
for FEHA Retaliation is based on the following allegations: “Plaintiff engaged in
protected activity preceding Defendant Employers taking adverse employment
action against her. Specifically, Plaintiff made protected complaints of discrimination
to Defendant Employers. Following making such complaints and rather than take legitimate
steps toward correcting the disparity in Plaintiff’s and other women’s pay,
Defendant Employers, including members of management, expressed to Plaintiff
that it knew Plaintiff was not properly paid expressed that Defendant
Employers’ response to her raising her concerns was deficient, discouraged her from
seeking counsel from her attorney and exercising her rights, insulted her, and
pressured her to sign a release in exchange for the requested pay raise.
Notably, when Plaintiff protested that she should not be forced to sign a
release in exchange for the pay raise, she was told that she needed to sign a
release because she raised claims against Defendant Employers, and she would
not get the pay raise otherwise. On information and belief, a substantial
motivating reason for Defendant Employers’ decision not increase Plaintiff’s
pay is because she raised her concern regarding discrimination and her pay
disparity.” (Complaint ¶44.)
Courts have long construed
§425.16 (e)(2) to mean that the first step of the anti-SLAPP law protects
prelitigation communications.  (Briggs
v. Eden Council for Hope & Opportunity (1999) 19 Cal.4th 1106, 1115
[“communications preparatory to or in anticipation of the bringing of an action
or other official proceeding . . . are equally entitled to the benefits of
§425.16.”].)  It is well-settled that
claims based on litigation activity are subject to the anti-SLAPP statute.  (See Bergstein v. Stroock & Stroock
& Lavan LLP (2015) 236 Cal.App.4th 793, 803.)
Protection of prelitigation
statements “arises at the point in time when litigation is no longer a mere
possibility but has instead ripened into a proposed proceeding that is
actually contemplated in good faith and under serious consideration as a means
of obtaining access to the courts for the purpose of resolving the dispute.”  (Edwards v. Centex Real Estate (1997)
53 Cal.App.4th 15, 39.)  California’s Supreme
Court, citing Edwards, has explained that prelitigation communication is
privileged “when it relates to litigation that is contemplated in good faith
and under serious consideration.”  (Action
Apartment Assn., Inc. v. City of Santa Monica (2007) 41 Cal.4th 1232, 1251.)
 For example, “[o]rdinarily, a demand
letter sent in anticipation of litigation is a legitimate speech or petitioning
activity that is protected under § 425.16.”  (Malin v. Singer (2013) 217 Cal.App.4th
1283, 1293.)  When a dispute has moved to
the point of clearly threatened commencement of legal proceedings, accusations
between parties may be litigation activity protected by the anti-SLAPP law.  (Rohde v. Wolf (2007) 154 Cal.App.4th 28,
34-35 [statement that party participated in “conspiracy,” made in context of
ongoing dispute in which “attorney threatened to file a lawsuit” and
“‘apprised’ . . . what would be contained in that lawsuit when filed” was
protected conduct].)
Here, Plaintiff’s FEHA
Retaliation cause of action is based on settlement negotiation communications
for the express purpose of avoiding litigation.  First, Plaintiff’s July 26, 2023, claim letter
instructed Defendants to inform “the relevant parties” of their obligation to
take all reasonable steps to preserve and retain relevant documents and electronically
stored information (“ESI”), specifically citing to Cedars-Sinai Medical Center
v. Superior Court (1998) 18 Cal.4th 1, 12, and Williams v. Russ
(2008) 167 Cal.App.4th 1215, 1227.  The
citation to Cedars-Sinai Medical Center sets forth obligations placed
upon litigants to assume responsibility for the preservation of evidence.  (See Cedars-Sinai Medical Center, 18
Cal.4th at pg. 12.)  The citation to Williams
addresses terminating sanctions in a lawsuit for failure to preserve a client
file.  (See Willams, 167
Cal.App.4th at pg. 1227.)  The Williams
Court held that a defendant has a “duty to preserve evidence for another’s use
in pending or future litigation, even if that evidence has not been
specifically requested in discovery.”  (Id.
at pg. 1223.)
Second, on September 8, 2023,
Plaintiff’s counsel plainly stated Plaintiff’s demand for further information
regarding her claims against Defendants, requesting a copy of the arbitration
agreement between Defendants and Plaintiff, demanded money to resolve those
claims, and stated “litigation will be necessary” should Defendants be unable
to meet her demands. The communication shows Plaintiff’s attempt to determine
the factual basis of Plaintiff’s claims against Defendants, determine what
forum to bring those claims (either arbitration or state court), and advise Defendants
of her intention to formally pursue her claims.
Third, on September 22, 2023,
Plaintiff filed a PAGA Notice and requested a Right to Sue letter. Both letters
are administrative prerequisites Plaintiff must satisfy to file her lawsuit in
the first instance. In fact, by filing those letters, Plaintiff triggered her
statute of limitations to file an individual Equal Pay Act lawsuit. The intent
to file prerequisites was even stated in Plaintiff’s initial July 26, 2023,
claim correspondence.  (Decl. of Towfighi
¶4; Exh. D.)
Fourth, on December 4, 2023,
Plaintiff’s counsel advised Defendant that “given your client’s statements and
conduct, we will not be attending pre-litigation mediation and will proceed accordingly.”
(Decl. of Towfighi ¶25; Exh. O.)  Here,
Plaintiff’s counsel admitted that the proposed mediation discussions were
pre-litigation communications and admitted that Plaintiff would proceed “accordingly”
based on Defendants’ purported “statements and conduct.”  Defendants’ direct communications with Plaintiff
regarding these matters were only through Mr. Mandala. Therefore, Plaintiff’s
counsel was clearly advising Defendants that Plaintiff would file suit based
upon pre-litigation statements.
Fifth, on December 21, 2023,
after several months of settlement negotiations between counsel and between the
parties, including conversations between Mr. Mandala and Plaintiff, Plaintiff’s
counsel advised Defendants that she planned to amend her Right to Sue to
include a retaliation claim and will “be filing her lawsuit in court, not in
arbitration.” (Decl. of Towfighi ¶17; Exh. Q.)  This amendment was consistent with Plaintiff’s
counsel’s stated intent of December 4, 2023, as noted above.
Plaintiff’s initial PAGA
Notice and Right to Sue Letter did not allege retaliation.  (Decl. of Towfighi ¶¶11, 12; Exhs. K and L.)  Plaintiff amended the Notice and Right to Sue
only after there was an impasse in settlement discussions and specifically
aimed the new retaliation allegations at the communications between Mr. Mandala
and Plaintiff that occurred between September 28, 2023, and December 4, 2023.  (Decl. of Towfighi ¶¶19, 20; Exhs. S and T;
Decl. of Mandala ¶¶14-23.)
Sixth, on December 27, 2023,
Plaintiff filed the amended Right to Sue Letter alleging retaliation and filed
her lawsuit in the Los Angeles County Superior Court. Therefore, Plaintiff’s frequent
warning of impending litigation ultimately resulted in the lawsuit.
Defendants’ prelitigation
settlement communications are subject to the protection of the anti-SLAPP
statute.  (See Edwards, 53
Cal.App.4th at pg. 39.)  Therefore, Defendants
met their burden of demonstrating Plaintiff’s allegations in her Complaint for
damages against Defendants arises from protected activity.  
Plaintiff’s argument that Defendants’
conduct is not protected under the anti-SLAPP statute because the settlement
offer in question was illegal as a matter of law is unavailing.  The term “illegal” means criminal, rather
than merely violation of a statute or common law standard (as alleged in every
complaint).  (Mendoza v. ADP Screening
& Selection Services, Inc. (2010) 182 Cal.App.4th 1644, 1654 [stating even
if disclosure of information regarding registered sex offender to prospective
employer violated applicable statute, it was not criminal conduct beyond
protection of anti-SLAPP statute]; Bergstein v. Stroock & Stroock &
Lavan LLP (2015) 236 Cal.App.4th 793, 806-807; Dziubla v. Piazza
(2020) 59 Cal.App.5th 140, 150-151.)  If a
plaintiff claims that a defendant’s speech or petitioning activity is illegal
and thus not protected, “plaintiff bears the burden of conclusively proving
the illegal conduct”; a defendant need not prove its conduct was legal in
order to meet its burden under the first prong of the anti-SLAPP statute.  (Cross v. Cooper (2011) 197 Cal.App.4th
357, 385, emphasis added [“As in Flatley [v. Mauro (2006) 39
Cal.4th 299], the Paul [for Council v. Hanyecz (2001) 85
Cal.App.4th 1356] court emphasized the narrow circumstances in which a
defendant’s assertedly protected activity could be found to be illegal as a
matter of law. ‘In order to avoid any misunderstanding as to the basis for our
conclusions, we should make one further point. This case, as we have
emphasized, involves a factual context in which the defendants have effectively
conceded the illegal nature of their election campaign finance activities for
which they claim constitutional protection. Thus, there was no dispute on the
point and we have concluded, as a matter of law, that such activities are not a
valid exercise of constitutional rights as contemplated by section 425.16.
However, had there been a factual dispute as to the legality of defendants’
actions, then we could not so easily have disposed of defendants’ motion.
[¶] As we have noted, a defendant need only make a prima facie showing that
the plaintiff’s suit arises ‘from any act of [defendant] in furtherance of
[defendant’s] right of petition or free speech under the United States or
California Constitution in connection with a public issue.’ [Citation.] If
the plaintiff contests this point, and . . . cannot demonstrate as a matter of
law that the defendant’s acts do not fall under section 425.16’s protection,
then the claimed illegitimacy of defendant’s acts is an issue which plaintiff
must raise and support in the context of the discharge of plaintiff’s burden to
provide a prima facie showing of the merits of plaintiff’s case.”], emphasis
added.)  
Here, Plaintiff has not conclusively
demonstrated Defendants’ conduct alleged in the cause of action for FEHA
retaliation was illegal, and Defendants have not effectively conceded that they
told Plaintiff she would not get a raise unless she signed a release.  (See Cross, 197 Cal.App.4th at
pg. 385.)  
Further, Plaintiff’s reliance
on Park v. Board of Trustees of California State University (2017) 2
Cal.5th 1057, and Verceles v. Los Angeles Unified School District (2021)
63 Cal.App.5th 776 is misplaced.  Plaintiff’s
allegations regarding the settlement communications are not merely evidence of
Defendants’ alleged wrongful conduct but rather are incorporated into and
central to the retaliation claim.  The
factual timeline differentiates the instant matter from Park and Verceles.

In Park, the plaintiff
was denied tenure and the Supreme Court found that the tenure decision was not
a protected activity as plaintiff Park did not claim that the grievance
proceeding, statements or evaluations were an element of the claim. (Park,
2 Cal.5th 1057, at pg. 1068.)  In Verceles,
the plaintiff was placed in “teacher jail” and her employment was ultimately
terminated after he was accused of misconduct by a student. The Court found the
teacher’s discrimination and retaliation allegations depended upon the
decisions to reassign him and terminate his employment rather than on
communications made during the school district’s investigation of his alleged
misconduct or the investigation as a whole.  (Verceles, 63 Cal.App.5th at pg. 787.)
Here, in contrast, Plaintiff
is alleging the communications were an extension of Defendants’ retaliatory
actions against Plaintiff and that she was harmed by those communications.  Plaintiff did not plead retaliation until
after several months of negotiations between counsel and between the parties,
which included conversations between Mandala and Plaintiff.  (Decl. of Towfighi ¶17, Exh. Q.)  Plaintiff first stated she would include
additional retaliation claims in her lawsuit only after an impasse in settlement
discussions such that the otherwise privileged communications became the basis
of the retaliation claim.  (Decl. of Towfighi
¶¶19, 20, Exhs. S, T; Decl. of Mandala ¶¶14-23.)  Furthermore, Plaintiff declares Defendants’
alleged conduct caused her economic and non-economic harm, demonstrating Defendants’
speech is material to Plaintiff’s claim for retaliation.  (Decl. of Motta ¶ 17.) 
Therefore, Defendants met
their burden to make a prima facie showing that Plaintiff’s suit arises “from
any act of [defendant] in furtherance of [defendants’] right of petition or
free speech under the United States or California Constitution in connection
with a public issue.”  The burden shifts
to Plaintiff to demonstrate a probability of prevailing on the cause of action
against Defendants.  Plaintiff has not
met her burden.
 
Prong
Two: Probability of Prevailing
“If the court determines that
relief is sought based on allegations arising from activity protected by the
statute, the second step is reached. There, the burden shifts to the plaintiff
to demonstrate that each challenged claim based on protected activity is
legally sufficient and factually substantiated. The court, without resolving
evidentiary conflicts, must determine whether the plaintiff’s showing, if
accepted by the trier of fact, would be sufficient to sustain a favorable
judgment. If not, the claim is stricken. Allegations of protected activity
supporting the stricken claim are eliminated from the plaintiff, unless they
also support a distinct claim on which the plaintiff has shown a probability of
prevailing.”  (Baral v. Schnitt (2016) 1 Cal.5th 376, 396, emphasis added.)
The burden is on the
plaintiff to produce evidence that would be admissible at trial—i.e., to
proffer a prima facie showing of facts supporting a judgment in plaintiff’s
favor.  (Chavez v. Mendoza (2001)
94 Cal.App.4th 1083, 1087.)
A.   Retaliation in Violation of
FEHA
“[I]n
order to establish a prima facie case of retaliation under the FEHA, a
plaintiff must show (1) he or she engaged in a ‘protected activity,’ (2) the
employer subjected the employee to an adverse employment action, and (3) a
causal link existed between the protected activity and the employer’s action.
Once an employee establishes a prima facie case, the employer is required to
offer a legitimate, nonretaliatory reason for the adverse employment action. If
the employer produces a legitimate reason for the adverse employment action,
the presumption of retaliation ‘drops out of the picture,’ and the burden
shifts back to the employee to prove intentional retaliation.”  (Yanowitz v. L’Oreal USA, Inc. (2005) 36
Cal.4th 1028, 1042, internal citations omitted.) 
“[T]he determination of what
type of adverse treatment properly should be considered discrimination in the
terms, conditions, or privileges of employment is not, by its nature,
susceptible to a mathematically precise test, and the significance of particular
types of adverse actions must be evaluated by taking into account the
legitimate interests of both the employer and the employee. Minor or relatively
trivial adverse actions or conduct by employers or fellow employees that, from
an objective perspective, are reasonably likely to do no more than anger or
upset an employee cannot properly be viewed as materially affecting the terms,
conditions, or privileges of employment and are not actionable, but adverse
treatment that is reasonably likely to impair a reasonable employee’s job
performance or prospects for advancement or promotion falls within the reach of
the antidiscrimination provisions of sections 12940(a) and 12940(h).”  (Id. at pgs. 1054-1055.)
“The employment action must
be both detrimental and substantial . . . [¶ ]. We must analyze [plaintiff’s]
complaints of adverse employment actions to determine if they result in a
material change in the terms of her employment, impair her employment in some
cognizable manner, or show some other employment injury . . .. [W]e do not find
that [plaintiff’s] complaint alleges the necessary material changes in the
terms of her employment to cause employment injury. Most of the actions upon
which she relies were one time events . . .. The other allegations . . . are
not accompanied by facts which evidence both a substantial and detrimental
effect on her employment.”  (Thomas v.
Department of Corrections (2000) 77 Cal.App.4th 507, 511-512, internal
citations omitted.)
1.    
Prima facie case for retaliation
Plaintiff
failed to demonstrate a prima facie case for retaliation.  Specifically, Plaintiff’s submitted evidence
that she was subjected to an adverse employment action is insufficient.  Plaintiff argues she was subjected to an
adverse employment action because Defendants refused to give her a pay raise
following her complaints and requests. 
(Decl. of Motta ¶¶5-8, 10, 12-13, 15-16, Exh. A.)  However, there is no evidence that Plaintiff suffered
a substantial and material change in the terms and conditions of her
employment, or any change at all.  Plaintiff’s
submitted evidence merely speculates that she will not be eligible for
promotion or pay raises in the future.  (See
Decl. of Motta ¶17; Decl. of Mandala ¶¶7, 8, 24.)  Plaintiff failed to demonstrate a material
change has occurred, such as a reduction in pay or a demotion.  Instead, Plaintiff remains employed in her
existing managerial position.  (Decl. of
Mandala ¶7).  There has been no change to
Plaintiff’s title, pay, benefits, duties, or responsibilities since Plaintiff
first complained about disparate pay.  (Decl.
of Mandala ¶¶8, 24.)  Therefore,
Plaintiff fails to demonstrate a prima facie cause of action for retaliation,
thereby failing to establish
a probability of prevailing on her cause of action for FEHA retaliation.
Assuming,
arguendo, Plaintiff met her burden on prong 2, her allegation pertaining
to Defendants’ settlement communications falls within the litigation privilege,
which is absolute and applies regardless of malice.  (See Civ. Code §47(b) [defining
“privileged publication” as a communication made “in any (1) legislative
proceeding, (2) judicial proceeding, (3) in any other official proceeding
authorized by law, or (4) in the initiation or course of any other proceeding authorized
by law”]; Silberg v. Anderson (1990) 50 Cal.3d 205, 212 [stating
privilege applies so long as the communication or communicative act: (1) was
made in judicial or quasi-judicial proceedings; (2) by litigants or other
participants authorized by law; (3) to achieve the objects of the litigation;
and (4) had some connection or logical relation to the action]; Action
Apartment Association v. City of Santa Monica (2007) 41 Cal.4th 1232, 1241
[“This privilege is absolute in nature, applying ‘to all publications,
irrespective of their maliciousness.’”].)
Here,
Plaintiff’s retaliation cause of action arises directly out of Defendants’
ongoing settlement communications regarding Plaintiff’s equal pay allegations
against Defendants, which Plaintiff characterized as follows: “raising her
[equal pay] concerns was deficient, discouraged her from seeking counsel from
her attorney and exercising her rights, insulted her, and pressured her to sign
a release in exchange for her requested pay raise.”  (Complaint ¶¶23, 44).  Plaintiff’s claim is rooted in the settlement
communications between Plaintiff and Mandala. These communications were made as
a direct result of the impending litigation.
Specifically,
on December 4, 2023, Plaintiff’s counsel advised Defendants, “given your
client’s statements and conduct, we will not be attending pre-litigation
mediation and will proceed accordingly.”  (Decl. of Towfighi ¶14, Exh. N).  Plaintiff’s counsel admitted he would
“proceed accordingly” based on Defendants’ “statements and conduct,”
specifically meaning the parties’ communications about Plaintiff’s claim.  Indeed, Plaintiff amended her administrative
charges to reflect this.  (Decl. of
Towfighi ¶¶19, 20, Exhs. S, T.)
Accordingly, Plaintiff failed
to establish a probability of prevailing on her FEHA Retaliation cause of
action against Defendants.
 
Conclusion
          Based on the foregoing, Defendants’ special motion to
strike Plaintiff’s 3rd cause of action for FEHA Retaliation alleged against
them is granted.  
Defendants
may separately move for an award of attorneys’ fees and costs.  
          Moving Party to give notice.
 
Dated:  May _____, 2024
                                                                             





  