 Case Number:  23STCV08240    Hearing Date:   January 21, 2025    Dept:  57 Defendants Rick Roussin (“Roussin”), IPTC LLC (“IPTC”), and Byoll LLC’s (collectively, “the Roussin Defendants”) filed a demurrer ("the Demurrer") to the First Amended Complaint of Plaintiff Judith Mendez’(“Mendez”).  Mendez did not file an opposition to the Demurrer.  The Roussin Defendants also moved for an order compelling Mendez to provide further responses to Special Interrogatories that the Roussin Defendants propounded on Mendez ("the Discovery Motion").  In the Opposition to the Discovery Motion that was filed on Mendez's behalf by her then-counsel, Mendez essentially conceded that she needed to provide the further responses to the Special Interrogatories that the Roussin Defendants are seeking.The Demurrer and Discovery Motion both were scheduled to be heard on January 17, 2025.  Prior to the hearing, the Court issued tentative rulings on the Demurrer and Discovery Motion.  At the hearing, Mendez, who has been representing herself since her counsel's motion to be relieved was granted, made an oral request for a continuance of the hearing.  Over the objection of the Roussin Defendants, the Court decided that it would not hear the Demurrer and Discovery Motion as scheduled that day. Rather, the Court directed Mendez to file and serve written motions to continue the hearings on the Demurrer and Discovery Motion ("the Continuance Motions").  The Court set the hearing on the Continuance Motions for January 21, 2025.   The Court stated that if the Continuance Motions were denied, then the Court would hear the Demurrer and Discovery Motion on January 24, 2025.   In making that order, the Court stated that it would not permit Mendez to file an opposition to the Demurrer because the time for filing one has long since come and gone. Having considered the Continuance Motions and the oppositions thereto filed by the Roussin Defendants, the Court is denying the Continuance Motions.  In the Court's view, Mendez failed in the Continuance Motions to provide good cause for the Court to continue further the hearing on the Demurrer and Discovery Motion.  Accordingly, the Court will hear the Demurrer and Discovery Motion on January 24, 2025.  The tentative rulings on the Demurrer and Discovery Motion that the Court issued prior to the January 17, 2025 hearing remain in place.  The Court will afford Mendez the opportunity at the January 24, 2025 hearing to persuade the Court that its tentative rulings on the Demurrer and Discovery Motion are incorrect. 