  Case Number:  22STCV34810    Hearing Date:   January 21, 2025    Dept:  57  This case is a direct eminent action brought by Plaintiff San Gabriel Valley Council of Governments ("SGVCG") against Defendant Careco Oil. Co. ("Careco").  SGVCG brought the action after Careco stated it intended to pursue a claim against SGVCG for compensation for lost business goodwill arising from SGVCG's exercise of eminent domain power that affected property on which Careco operated a business.  On October 15, 2024, the Court entered judgment for SGVCG on Careco's claim for lost business goodwill and also determined that SGVCG's construction activities did not amount to an actionable impairment or interference with Careco's right of access to the property in question.  Notwithstanding that judgment, the Court also determined that, pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure Section 1268.710, Careco was entitled to recover from SGVCG its litigation costs by dint of the fact that it was the defendant in an eminent domain action.  Section 1268.710, which is specifc to eminent domain actions, makes the defendant the prevailing party for purposes of the general cost recovery statute, Section 1032.  Accordingly, the Court denied SGVCG's motion to strike the costs that Careco set forth in a post-judgment memorandum of costs.Pending now before the Court is Careco's motion to strike the costs that SGVCG set forth in a post-judgment memorandum of costs of its own.  In opposing the motion, SGVCG contends that it is the prevailing party under Section 1032 because it obtained judgment on Careco's claim for lost business goodwill and interference with rights to access to property.  The Court disagrees with SGVCG on its entitlement to costs and thus is granting Careco's motion.  SGVCG's position runs counter to Section 1268.710, which provides recovery of the defendant's costs in an eminent domain action, regardless of the outcome.  SGVCG has no cited precedent supporting its notion that, notwithstanding Section 1268.710, a condemning plaintiff is entitled to recover its costs when it prevails on a defendant's claims in a direct eminent domain action 