  Case Number:  24STCP02901    Hearing Date:   September 24, 2024    Dept:  82 Jessica
M. v. DOC, Case No. 24STCP02901:
 
 
Petitioners
Jessica M. and Crime Survivors, Inc. (collectively, “Petitioners”) filed this
petition for writ of mandate against the California Department of Corrections
and Rehabilitation and the Board of Parole Hearings (collectively,
“Respondents”).  Petitioners seek to cancel the parole suitability hearing
of Sergio Linares (the “real party in interest”). 
 
On
September 23, 2024, Petitioners filed an ex parte application for a temporary
restraining order and order to show cause why a preliminary injunction shall
not issue.  Petitioners represent that the parole hearing is October 2,
2024, and seek an order before that date.  Petitioners’ counsel provided
notice of the ex parte application to Deputy Attorney General Jennifer L.
Heinisch, who indicated that she intends to oppose the TRO and will attend the
hearing.  (See Declaration of Kathleen Cady, Exh. 1.)  Petitioners’
counsel also provided notice to the real party in interest, as well as his
counsel.  (See Declaration of Kathleen Cady, Exhs. 8, 9.) 
    
 
Based
upon the foregoing, the court orders as follows:
 
1.      
The court advances and continues the hearing on this ex parte application from
Tuesday, September 24, 2024, to Thursday, September 26, 2024, at 10:30
a.m.  The court authorizes remote or in-person appearances.
 
2.      
Any opposition briefs shall be filed and served via email on or before Tuesday,
September 24, 2024, at 12 Noon.    
 
3.      
Petitioners’ counsel may file a reply brief of five (5) pages or less on or
before Wednesday, September 25, 2024, at 9:00 a.m.  Any reply brief shall
be served via email. 
 
3.      
Courtesy copies of any opposition and reply briefs shall be emailed forthwith
to the court at the following email address: WRDept82@LACourt.org.
 
4.      
The court provides notice: If no opposition briefs are filed on or before the
deadline, absent good cause, the court intends to grant the ex parte
application without holding a hearing per Code of Civil Procedure section
166(a)(1), in which case the court would issue a temporary restraining order
and set an order to show cause why a preliminary injunction shall not
issue.  
 
5.      
The court’s clerk shall serve this order on Petitioner’s counsel via
email.  Petitioner’s counsel shall provide notice forthwith via
email.  The court will also post a copy of this order in the tentative order
system, which is available on the court’s website: www.LACourt.org. 
 