  Case Number:  21STCV04930    Hearing Date:   June 13, 2024    Dept:  74 TOYOTA MOTOR SALES U.S.A., INC. vs
PARAGON RELOCATION RESOURCES, INC., et al. 21STCV04930
Motion for Summary Judgment, or in the Alternative Summary
Adjudication, By Plaintiff Toyota Motor Sales, Inc.
Plaintiff Toyota Motor Sales U.S.A., Inc. (“Toyota”) sued defendants
Paragon Relocation Resources, Inc. (“Paragon Relocation”) and Paragon Global
Resources, Inc. (“Paragon Global”) for (1) breach of contract, (2) conversion,
and (3) unjust enrichment. Toyota thereafter moved for summary judgment or
adjudication. After Toyota filed its motion, defendant Paragon Relocation
filed a Notice of Bankruptcy with the Court on February 13, 2024.
Therefore, all of Toyota’s causes of action against Paragon Relocation are
stayed. Thus, the motion for summary judgment or adjudication proceeds only
against Paragon Global Resources, Inc. (“Paragon Global”).
Paragon Global requests judicial notice of the two separate sets of
Articles of Incorporation for Paragon Global and Paragon Relocation,
respectively, as filed with the California Secretary of State. The Court grants
Paragon Global’s request. (See Evid. Code, § 452, subd. (h).)
Paragon Global’s evidentiary objections are preserved.
The court denies Toyota’s motion for summary adjudication of breach of
contract. Regardless of whatever evidence Toyota offers that bankrupt Paragon
Relocation concedes Paragon Relocation owes a debt under the Relocation
Services Agreement, a triable issue exists whether Paragon Global is a party to
the Relocation Services Agreement so as to bind Paragon Global. The Court has
taken judicial notice of the Paragon Global and Paragon Relocation’s  separate Articles of Incorporation. The
Relocation Services Agreement states that it is an agreement between Toyota and
Paragon Relocation, not Paragon Global. (Mugavero Decl, Exh. 1, p. 1) And although
Morabito is President of both Paragon Entities, he signed the Agreement only as
President of Paragon Relocation. (Id., p. 20.) Additionally, during
their depositions, Paragon Global’s personnel largely maintained that the
entities are separate. (Lewis Decl., Exh. 5, pp. 42-45 [Braun Deposition]; see
generally Suppl. Lewis Decl., Exh. 1.)
The court likewise denies Toyota’s motion for summary adjudication of
its causes of action for conversion and unjust enrichment. Toyota’s conversion
and unjust enrichment claims rely on the premise that Paragon Relocation and
Paragon Global are identical. That premise is a triable issue. (See above
paragraph.)
Toyota argues Paragon Global is not entitled to
an offset defense as stated in Paragon Global’s 7th Affirmative
Defense. Code of Civil Procedure section 431.70 permits a party to raise offset
defense “[w]here cross-demands for money have existed between persons ... .” Paragon
Global’s opposition to summary judgment or adjudication rests on the premise
that Paragon Global is an entity separate from Paragon Relocation, so Toyota
has no valid demand against Paragon Global. Conversely, Paragon Global concedes
it has no valid demand against Toyota. Put differently: if Paragon Global does
not owe Toyota anything under the Relocation Services Agreement, then Toyota
does not owe Paragon Global anything either.

Based on the foregoing, the Court denies Toyota’s motion for summary
judgment, and denies summary adjudication as to all except Paragon Global’s
seventh affirmative defense for offset.
Plaintiff is ordered to give notice of this ruling.