 Case Number:  22STCV32478    Hearing Date:   September 23, 2024    Dept:  47 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Theresa M. Traber, Department 47
 
 
HEARING DATE:     September 23, 2024               TRIAL DATE: October
8, 2024
            
CASE:                         Ken Houang, et al. v. Rochelle H.
Sterling, et al. 
 
CASE NO.:                 22STCV32478            
 
(1)  
MOTION TO QUASH DEPOSITION NOTICE & FOR PROTECTIVE
ORDER
(2)  
MOTION TO COMPEL DEPOSITION OF ROCHELLE H.
STERLING
(3)  
MOTION TO COMPEL RESPONSES TO SPECIAL
INTERROGATORIES; REQUEST FOR SANCTIONS

 
MOVING PARTY:               (1) Defendants Beverly Hills Properties, LLC and
Rochelle Sterling; (2) Plaintiffs Ken Houang and Shelly Houang, individually
and as Guardian ad Litem for Liam Kenneth Houang; (3) Plaintiff Ken Houang. 
 
RESPONDING PARTY(S): (1) Plaintiffs Ken
Houang and Shelly Houang, individually and as Guardian ad Litem for Liam
Kenneth Houang; (2)(3) No response on eCourt as of 09/18/24. 
 
STATEMENT
OF MATERIAL FACTS AND/OR PROCEEDINGS:
            
            This is a habitability action that was filed on October 4, 2022.
Plaintiffs, who are and were tenants at a residential apartment complex, allege
that Defendants permitted the premises to develop extensive uninhabitable
conditions and allowed those conditions to persist in violation of statutes and
municipal ordinances. Plaintiffs seek monetary and injunctive relief.
 
Defendants move to quash a
deposition subpoena propounded to Defendant Rochelle Sterling. Plaintiff Ken
Houang moves to compel that deposition and to compel responses to special
interrogatories propounded to Defendant Sterling. 
            
TENTATIVE RULING:
 
Defendants’ Motion to Quash
Deposition Notice & For Protective Order is DENIED.
 
Plaintiffs’ Motion to Compel
Deposition is GRANTED. Defendant Sterling is ordered to appear for deposition
by Plaintiffs on or before September 30, 2024. 
 
Plaintiff’s Motion to Compel
Responses to Special Interrogatories (Set One) propounded to Defendant Rochelle
Sterling is GRANTED. Defendant is ordered to produce verified, code-compliant
responses without objections on or before October 1, 2024.
 
            Plaintiff’s
request for sanctions is DENIED. 
 
DISCUSSION:
 
Motion to Quash Deposition Notice & For Protective
Order
 
            Defendants
move to quash Plaintiffs’ notice of deposition propounded to Defendant Sterling
and for a protective order precluding her deposition. 
 
Legal Standard
 
Code of Civil Procedure section
2025.420 authorizes a party, deponent, or any other affected person or entity
to move for a protective order. (Code Civ. Proc. § 2025.420(a).) Subdivision
(b) authorizes the Court to, for good cause shown, issue a protective order “to
protect any party or other natural person from unwarranted annoyance,
embarrassment, or oppression, or undue burden and expense.” (Code Civ. Proc. §
2025.420(b).) A protective order under this section may include, inter alia,
an order that the deposition not be taken at all. (Code Civ. Proc. §
2025.420(b)(1).) 
 
Meet and Confer
 
            Before
filing a motion for a protective order, Defendant is required to file a
declaration stating his efforts to meet and confer with the opposing party to
resolve this dispute, showing a “reasonable and good faith attempt” to resolve
informally the issues presented by the motion before filing the motion. (Code
Civ. Proc. § 2016.040.)
 
            The
Declaration of Taylor Wall in support of the motion states that the parties
attempted to meet and confer via electronic correspondence on July 11, 2024,
but were not able to resolve this dispute. (Declaration of Taylor A. Wall ISO
Mot. Exhs. B-C.) Defendants have therefore satisfied the statutory meet-and-confer
requirements.
 
Analysis
 
            Defendants
seek an order precluding Plaintiffs from deposing Defendant Sterling on the
basis that she has no personal knowledge of how the property that is the
subject of the litigation is managed. Although Defendant cites State Bd. of
Pharmacy v. Superior Court (1978) 78 Cal.App.3d 641 and In re Finn (1960)
54 Cal.2d 807, both of those authorities pertain to third-party witnesses for
whom the putative deposing party failed to show personal knowledge of any
germane matter. (State Bd. of Pharmacy v. Superior Court (1978) 78
Cal.App.3d 641, 643 [California Attorney General had no personal knowledge of
the Attorney General’s office’s representation of the named defendant and was
not a party]; In re. Finn (1960) 54 Cal.2d 807, 813 [criminal defendant
failed to show that police officers who were subpoenaed as witnesses had
relevant knowledge].) Neither case stands for the position that a party must
show that the opposing party has relevant personal knowledge before seeking
that party’s deposition. This is not surprising, as the relevant statutes plainly
state that a party to the action may seek to depose any other party to the
action as of right and may move to compel deposition of that party if such
testimony is not forthcoming. (Code Civ. Proc. §§ 2025.410, 2025.450.) 
 
            Defendants
argue in the alternative that Defendant Sterling is an “apex” witness who is
excused from deposition under the “apex witness” doctrine. The Court of Appeal
set forth the standard for deposition of senior corporate officers thus:
 
[W]hen a plaintiff
seeks to depose a corporate president or other official at the highest level of
corporate management, and that official moves for a protective order to
prohibit the deposition, the trial court should first determine whether the
plaintiff has shown good cause that the official has unique or superior
personal knowledge of discoverable information. If not, as will presumably
often be the case in the instance of a large national or international
corporation, the trial court should issue the protective order and first
require the plaintiff to obtain the necessary discovery through less intrusive
methods. These would include interrogatories directed to the high-level
official to explore the state of his or her knowledge or involvement in plaintiff's
case; the deposition of lower level employees with appropriate knowledge and
involvement in the subject matter of the litigation; and the organizational
deposition of the corporation itself, which will require the corporation to
produce for deposition the most qualified officer or employee to testify on its
behalf as to the specified matters to be raised at the deposition. [Citation].
Should these avenues be exhausted, and the plaintiff make a colorable showing
of good cause that the high-level official possesses necessary information to
the case, the trial court may then lift the protective order and allow the
deposition to proceed.
 
(Liberty Mutual Ins. Co. v. Superior Court (Frysinger) (1992)
10 Cal.App.4th 1282, 1289.) Here, however, Defendant is not a senior corporate
officer, but rather is the trustee of a trust in her name. “Unlike a
corporation, a trust is not a legal entity. Legal title to property owned by a
trust is held by the trustee '"A . . . trust . . . is simply a collection
of assets and liabilities. As such, it has no capacity to sue or be sued, or to
defend an action.”  (Stoltenberg v.
Newman (2009) 179 Cal.App.4th 287, 293 [internal citations and quotations
omitted].) Defendants cite no authority standing for the position that the apex
witness doctrine is applicable to the trustee of a trust as opposed to a
corporate officer. Defendants have failed to demonstrate good cause for a
protective order.
 
            What is
more, under the “nondelegable duty” doctrine, “a landlord cannot escape
liability for failure to maintain property in a safe condition by delegating
such duty to an independent contractor. [Citations.] Simply stated, ‘“[t]he
duty which a possessor of land owes to others to put and maintain it in
reasonably safe condition is nondelegable. If an independent contractor, no
matter how carefully selected, is employed to perform it, the possessor is
answerable for harm caused by the negligent failure of his contractor to put or
maintain the buildings and structures in reasonably safe condition[.]”’”  (Schreiber v. Lee (2020) 47 Cal. App.
5th 745, 755 [Citations omitted].)  Thus,
what the landlord knew or did not know and did or did not do, and what steps it
took or did not take to ensure the safety and habitability of the premises, is
relevant to the litigation of Plaintiffs’ claims.  
 
Conclusion
 
            Accordingly,
Defendants’ Motion to Quash Notice of Deposition and for a Protective Order is
DENIED.
 
Motion to Compel Deposition
            
Plaintiffs move to compel the
deposition of Defendant Rochelle Sterling. 
 
Legal Standard
 
Depositions may be compelled under
Code of Civil Procedure section 2025.450, which provides:
 
If, after service of a deposition notice,
a party to the action or an officer, director, managing agent, or employee of a
party, or a person designated by an organization that is a party under Section
2025.230, without having served a valid objection under Section 2025.410, fails
to appear for examination, or to proceed with it, or to produce for inspection
any document, electronically stored information, or tangible thing described in
the deposition notice, the party giving the notice may move for an order
compelling the deponent's attendance and testimony, and the production for
inspection of any document, electronically stored information, or tangible
thing described in the deposition notice.
 
(Code Civ. Proc. § 2025.450(a).)
 
Meet
and Confer
 
A motion to compel a deposition must
include a meet and confer declaration stating facts showing a reasonable and
good faith attempt at an informal resolution of each issue presented by the
motion. (Code Civ. Proc. §§ 2025.450(b); 2016.040.)  
 
Plaintiffs’ counsel states only that
“despite Plaintiffs’ meet and confer efforts, the parties have been unable to
reach any stipulated date for the Subject Defendants’ deposition.” (Declaration
of Gerald S. Ohn ISO Mot. ¶ 3.) This is not a sufficient statement of facts
showing a reasonable and good faith attempt to informally resolve this dispute.
Nevertheless, in the interest of expedience, the Court will address the motion
on its merits. 
 
Analysis
 
            Plaintiffs move to compel Defendant
Rochelle Sterling to appear for deposition. On July 9, 2024, Plaintiffs served
a deposition notice for the deposition of Defendant Sterling to take place on
July 23, 2024. (Ohn Decl. ¶ 2.) Defendant did not appear. (Id. Exh. A.) 
 
            Defendant did not directly oppose
this motion. However, to the extent that the Motion for Protective Order should
be construed as the opposition to this motion, the Court finds Defendants’
arguments to be without merit for the reasons stated above. 
 
Conclusion
 
            Accordingly, Plaintiffs’ Motion to
Compel Deposition is GRANTED. Defendant Sterling is ordered to appear for
deposition on or before Monday, September 30, 2024. 
 
Motion
to Compel Responses to Special Interrogatories
 
Plaintiff Ken Houang moves to
compel further responses to special interrogatories Nos. 1 and 10 propounded to
Defendant Beverly Hills Properties, LLC.
 
Legal Standard
 
When a party to whom
interrogatories are directed fails to respond, a party propounding the
interrogatories may move for an order compelling a response. (Code Civ. Proc. §
2030.290(b).) A party who fails to provide a timely response waives any
objection, including one based on privilege or work product. (Code Civ.
Proc.  § 2030.290(a).) For a motion to
compel initial responses, no meet and confer is required. All that must be
shown is that a set of interrogatories was properly served on the opposing
party, that the time to respond has expired, and that no response has been
served. (Leach v. Sup. Ct. (1980) 111
Cal.App.3d 902, 905-06.)
 
Analysis
 
            Plaintiff served Special
Interrogatories on Defendant Rochelle Sterling via electronic service on April
17, 2024. (Declaration of Gerald S. Ohn ISO Mot. Exh. A.) Defendant served a
response on May 21, 2024, which stated, in its entirety:
 
Defendant BEVERLY HILLS PROPERTIES, LLC
hereby makes a special appearance on behalf of Rochelle Sterling, an
individual, who is not a party to this litigation, in response to pending Special
Interrogatories propounded to her in her individual capacity. 
 
To the extent these Special
Interrogatories were propounded to her as an individual, Rochelle Sterling, the
individual, is not a party to this litigation nor does she own the property as
an individual. Defendant Rochelle Sterling as trustee for the Sterling Family
Trust has no personal knowledge of any of the information necessary to respond
to these Special Interrogatories and as such, is unable to respond. These
identical Special Interrogatories were also propounded to Beverly Hills
Properties, LLC whose responses are served concurrently.
 
(Ohn. Decl. Exh. B.) The response was not accompanied by a
verification. As Plaintiff states, unverified responses to discovery requests are tantamount to no responses
at all. (Appleton v. Superior Court (1988) 206 Cal.App.3d 622, 636.) Plaintiff
is therefore entitled to an order compelling responses to special
interrogatories. 
 
Sanctions
 
            Plaintiff
also requests sanctions in the amount of $2,250 against Defendant only for
failing to respond to the Special Interrogatories. 
 
Failure to respond or submit to an
authorized method of discovery is a misuse of the discovery process for which
sanctions may be imposed. (Code Civ. Proc. §§ 2023.010(d); 2023.030(a).)
Sanctions are mandatory on the party or attorney or both whose failure to serve
a timely response to special interrogatories necessitated a motion to compel
responses. (Code Civ. Proc. § 2030.290(c).)
 
            Plaintiff
requests $2,250 in sanctions against Defendant only based on 1.5 hours actually
incurred and 1.5 hours anticipated at $850 per hour. (Ohn Decl. ¶ 6.) The Court
is not persuaded that sanctions properly lie against Defendant where the
insufficiency in responses is premised on the absence of a verification.
Rather, the Court considers the failure to provide a verification to be the
responsibility of Defendant’s counsel. As Defendant’s counsel is not identified
as a target of sanctions in the Notice of Motion, the Court is without
authority to impose sanctions on the party it considers responsible for this
failure. (Code Civ. Proc. § 2023.040.) Plaintiff’s request for sanctions must
therefore be denied. 
 
Conclusion
 
Accordingly,
Plaintiff’s Motion to
Compel Responses to Special Interrogatories (Set One) propounded to Defendant
Rochelle Sterling is GRANTED. Defendant is ordered to produce verified,
code-compliant responses without objections on or before October 1, 2024.
 
//
CONCLUSION:

 
Accordingly, Defendants’ Motion
to Quash Deposition Notice & For Protective Order is DENIED.
 
Plaintiffs’ Motion to Compel
Deposition is GRANTED. Defendant Sterling is ordered to appear for deposition
by Plaintiffs on or before September 30, 2024. 
 
Plaintiff’s Motion to Compel
Responses to Special Interrogatories (Set One) propounded to Defendant Rochelle
Sterling is GRANTED. Defendant is ordered to produce verified, code-compliant
responses without objections on or before October 1, 2024.
 
            Plaintiff’s
request for sanctions is DENIED. 
 
            Moving
Parties to give notice.
 
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
Dated:  September 23,
2024                           ___________________________________
                                                                                    Theresa
M. Traber
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court
 

            Any party may submit on the
tentative ruling by contacting the courtroom via email at Smcdept47@lacourt.org by no later than 4:00 p.m. the day
before the hearing. All interested parties must be copied on the email. It
should be noted that if you submit on a tentative ruling the court will still
conduct a hearing if any party appears. By submitting on the tentative you
have, in essence, waived your right to be present at the hearing, and you
should be aware that the court may not adopt the tentative, and may issue an
order which modifies the tentative ruling in whole or in part.
 