 Case Number:  23STCV08250    Hearing Date:   September 23, 2024    Dept:  47 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Theresa M. Traber, Department 47
 
 
HEARING DATE:     September 23, 2024               TRIAL DATE: NOT
SET
                                                           
CASE:                         Nancy Goulston v. California TD
Specialists
 
CASE NO.:                 23STCV08250            
 
DEMURRER
TO CROSS-COMPLAINT IN INTERPLEADER

 
MOVING PARTY:               Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant Nancy Goulston
 
RESPONDING PARTY(S): Defendant/Cross-Complainant
California TD Specialists
 
CASE
HISTORY:
·        
04/13/23: Complaint filed. 
·        
04/04/24: Cross-Complaint in interpleader filed.

 
STATEMENT
OF MATERIAL FACTS AND/OR PROCEEDINGS:
            
            This is an action for violation of Civil Code section 2924j. Plaintiff
alleges that Defendant failed to properly disburse the proceeds from a Trustee’s
Sale. 
 
Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant Nancy
Goulston demurs to the cross-complaint in interpleader. 
            
TENTATIVE RULING:
 
Cross-Defendant’s Demurrer to the
Cross-Complaint in Interpleader is OVERRULED.
 
            Cross-Defendant
Nancy Goulston is to file and serve an Answer to the Cross-Complaint within 20
days of this order. 
 
DISCUSSION:
 
Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant Nancy
Goulston demurs to the cross-complaint in interpleader. 
 
//
Legal Standard
 
A demurrer tests whether the
(cross-) complaint states a cause of action. (Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147
Cal.App.4th 740, 747.) When considering demurrers, courts read the allegations
liberally and in context. (Taylor v. City of Los Angeles Dept. of Water and
Power (2006) 144 Cal.App.4th 1216, 1228.) In a demurrer proceeding, the
defects must be apparent on the face of the pleading or via proper judicial
notice. (Donabedian v. Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968,
994.) “A demurrer tests the pleadings alone and not the evidence or other extrinsic
matters. Therefore, it lies only where the defects appear on the face of the
pleading or are judicially noticed.” (SKF Farms v. Superior Court (1984)
153 Cal.App.3d 902, 905.) “The only issue involved in a demurrer hearing is
whether the complaint, as it stands, unconnected with extraneous matters,
states a cause of action.” (Hahn, supra, 147 Cal.App.4th at p. 747.) The
ultimate facts alleged in the [cross-] complaint must be deemed true, as well
as all facts that may be implied or inferred from those expressly alleged. (Marshall
v. Gibson, Dunn & Crutcher (1995) 37 Cal.App.4th 1397, 1403; see also Shields
v. County of San Diego (1984) 155 Cal.App.3d 103, 133 [stating, “[o]n
demurrer, pleadings are read liberally and allegations contained therein are
assumed to be true”].) “This rule of liberal construction means that the
reviewing court draws inferences favorable to the plaintiff, not the
defendant.” (Perez v. Golden Empire Transit Dist. (2012) 209 Cal.App.4th
1228, 1238.) 
 
Meet and Confer
 
Before filing a demurrer, the
demurring party shall meet and confer in person or by telephone with the party
who has filed the pleading subject to the demurrer and file a declaration
detailing their meet-and-confer efforts.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.41(a).)
However, an insufficient meet and confer process is not grounds
to overrule or sustain a demurrer.  (Code Civ. Proc., §
430.41(a)(4).)
 
            Cross-Defendant
attached a form declaration to her moving papers stating that her counsel,
Attorney Robert Brown, met and conferred with counsel for Cross-Complainant via
telephone at least five days before the date of this motion. (Declaration of
Demurring Party ¶ 2a.) The parties were not able to reach an agreement
resolving this issue. (Id.) Cross-Defendant has therefore satisfied her
statutory meet-and-confer obligations.
 
Analysis
 
            Cross-Defendant
demurs to the Cross-Complaint in interpleader for failure to state facts
sufficient to constitute a claim in interpleader. 
 
            “Any
person, firm, corporation, association or other entity against whom double or
multiple claims are made, or may be made, by two or more persons which
are such that they may give rise to double or multiple liability, may
bring an action against the claimants to compel them to interplead and litigate
their several claims.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 386(b).) “When a person may be
subject to conflicting claims for money or property, the person may bring an
interpleader action to compel the claimants to litigate their claims among
themselves. (Id.) Once the person admits liability and deposits the
money with the court, he or she is discharged from liability and freed from the
obligation of participating in the litigation between the claimants.
[Citations.] The purpose of interpleader is to prevent a multiplicity of suits
and double vexation. [Citation.]” (City of Morgan Hill v. Brown (1999)
71 Cal.App.4th 1114, 1122.) 
 
“In an interpleader action, the
court initially determines the right of the plaintiff to interplead the funds;
if that right is sustained, an interlocutory decree is entered which requires
the defendants to interplead and litigate their claims to the funds. Upon an
admission of liability and deposit of monies with the court, the plaintiff may
then be discharged from liability and dismissed from the interpleader action.
[Citations.] The effect of such an order is to preserve the fund, discharge the
stakeholder from further liability, and to keep the fund in the court's custody
until the rights of potential claimants of the monies can be adjudicated.
[Citations.] Thus, the interpleader proceeding is traditionally viewed as two
lawsuits in one. The first dispute is between the stakeholder and the claimants
to determine the right to interplead the funds. The second dispute to be
resolved is who is to receive the interpleaded funds. [Citations.]” (Dial
800 v. Fesbinder (2004) 118 Cal.App.4th 32, 42–43.)
 
As alleged in the Cross-Complaint,
Cross-Defendant Goulston formerly owned a parcel of real property located at
756 Rosencrans Avenue, Manhattan Beach, CA 90266. (Cross-Complaint ¶¶ 2-3.) On
November 19, 2019, Cross-Defendant obtained a $1,000,000 loan from Conventus,
LLC, secured by a Deed of Trust on the Property, which was recorded that same
date. (Cross-Complaint ¶ 9; Exh. 1.) On May 22, 2022, Cross-Complainant was
substituted as trustee under the Deed of Trust by a Substitution of Trustee
recorded that same date. (Cross-Complaint ¶ 10, Exh. 2.) On November 8, 2022, the
property was sold at a nonjudicial foreclosure for an amount greater than what
was owed on the Deed of Trust. (Cross-Complaint ¶¶ 14-15.) Cross-Complainant
was thereafter presented with claims for surplus funds by Joanna Averett (dated
January 6, 2023), the law firm of Burt + Clerc (dated January 9, 2023) Nancy
Goulston (dated January 11, 2023) and the law firm of Slovak Baron Empey Murphy
& Pinkney, LLP (dated March 1, 2023). (Cross-Complaint Exh. 5.) 
 
With the exception of
Cross-Defendant Goulston, the remaining claimants asserted liens on the proceeds
of the property derived from a recorded Amended Order after Trial on First and
Final Account, dated October 27, 2021, from a probate proceeding in the
Superior Court of California for the County of Riverside entitled In the
Matter of the Estate of Gerald S. Carlin, Deceased, Case No. INP 1600453.
(Cross-Complaint Exh. 5 Amended Order.) That order provided for administrator’s
commissions to Joanna Averett and attorney’s fees to the firms of Burt + Clerc
and Slovak Baron Empey Murphy & Pinkney, LLP. (Id. Exh. 5 ¶¶ 2-17.) The
Amended Order also stated that Averett and the law firms would have liens on
the real property forming the decedent’s estate as listed in the order. (Id.
¶¶ 18-20.) The property that is the subject of this action is not one of the
listed properties. (Id.) Abstracts of judgment were recorded for Joanna
Averett and Burt + Clerc on December 20, 2021. (Cross-Complaint Exh. 5.) 
 
Cross-Defendant Goulston argues,
first, that the funds which are the subject of the interpleader—i.e., surplus
funds from a foreclosure—have no connection to the Amended Order on which the
competing claims are based, because the subject property was not part of the
decedent’s estate. As the Court has previously stated, even in the absence of a
judgment declaring a lien on specified property, the acts of securing an
abstract of judgment and recording that abstract on property owned by the
judgment debtor creates an enforceable, secured judgment lien. (Fed Deposit
Ins. Corp. v. Charlton (1993) 17 Cal.App.4th 1066, 1070; see Code
Civ. Proc. § 697.340(a) [“A judgment lien on real property attaches to all
interests in real property in the county where the lien is created whether
present or future, vested or contingent, legal or equitable) that are subject
to enforcement of the money judgment against the judgment debtor pursuant to
Article 1 (commencing with Section 695.010) of Chapter 1 at the time the lien
was created, . . . ].) Under this established law, it appears that the
competing claims are in fact recorded liens attached to the subject property as
enforcement of the judgment. Cross-Defendant has not offered any contrary
authority, and Placer Foreclosure Inc. v. Aflalo, on which
Cross-Defendant relies, does not offer such support. As the Court previously
stated, the Court of Appeal in Placer affirmed the dismissal of a
foreclosure trustee’s interpleader complaint because the purportedly
conflicting claims were not recorded claims entitled to vie for excess proceeds
under Civil Code section 2924 et seq. (Placer Foreclosure Inc. v.
Aflalo (2018) 23 Cal.App.5th 1109, 1113-1116.) The Placer Court
reasoned that the trustee was obligated to distribute excess proceeds in the
order of priority dictated by Civil Code section 2924k, and was not entitled to
diverge from that plan, especially where the purportedly conflicting claims
were not claims recorded prior to the trustee’s sale. (Id. at
1114-1115.) Here, however, the claims are grounded in an abstract of judgment
recorded on the property, which, as stated above, appears to have attached to Cross-Defendant’s
property generally. (Cross-Complaint Exhs. 4-5.) 
 
Cross-Defendant next argues that
none of the competing claimants have valid claims on the surplus funds because
they failed to timely present their claims pursuant to Civil Code section
2924j. Under subdivision (a) of that code section, “within 30 days of the
execution of the trustee’s deed resulting from a sale in which there are
proceeds remaining . . . the trustee shall send written notice to all persons
with recorded interests in the property as of the date immediately prior to the
trustee’s sale who would be entitled to notice.” (Civ. Code § 2924j subd. (a).)
Under that same subdivision, potential claimants must present their claims to
the trustee “no later than 30 days after the date the trustee sends notice to
the potential claimant.” (Civ. Code § 2924j subd. (a)(4)(C).) Cross-Defendant
contends that the exhibits attached to the Cross-Complaint establish that the
claims were not timely presented because, while the Cross-Complaint does not
state when notice was given or if that notice was timely, the dates of the
various claims are more than 30 days after the last day the trustee could have
timely given notice. Cross-Defendant is mistaken. As alleged, the trustee’s
sale took place on November 8, 2022. (Cross-Complaint ¶ 14.) Thus, the last
date for Cross-Complainant to give timely notice was Thursday, December 8,
2022. As a result, the deadline to present a claim was 30 days from that date,
on Saturday, January 7, 2023. Joanna Averett’s claim is dated January 6, 2023.
(Cross-Complaint Exh. 5.) For that reason, Cross-Defendant’s timeliness
argument fails, as there is at least one claim which was timely presented. 
 
For these reasons, the Court is not
persuaded that the Cross-Complaint fails to state facts sufficient to
constitute a cause of action. The Cross-Complaint alleges a series of liens
derived from recordation of an abstract of judgment on Cross-Defendant’s property
and identifies at least one claim which appears on its face to have been timely
presented. 
 
CONCLUSION:

 
            Accordingly,
Cross-Defendant’s Demurrer to the Cross-Complaint in Interpleader is OVERRULED.
 
            Cross-Defendant
Nancy Goulston is to file and serve an Answer to the Cross-Complaint within 20
days of this order. 
 
            Moving
Party to give notice.
 
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
Dated:  September 23,
2024                           ___________________________________
                                                                                    Theresa
M. Traber
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court
 

            Any party may submit on the
tentative ruling by contacting the courtroom via email at Smcdept47@lacourt.org by no later than 4:00 p.m. the day
before the hearing. All interested parties must be copied on the email. It
should be noted that if you submit on a tentative ruling the court will still
conduct a hearing if any party appears. By submitting on the tentative you
have, in essence, waived your right to be present at the hearing, and you
should be aware that the court may not adopt the tentative, and may issue an
order which modifies the tentative ruling in whole or in part.
 