  Case Number:  19LBCV00255    Hearing Date:   October 3, 2023    Dept:  S27 
Relevant Background Facts 

This case was scheduled to commence jury trial on 1/05/23.  The parties met and conferred concerning
pretrial matters, and they agreed to a settlement of the case during the conference.  The parties put the terms of the settlement on
the record.  Pursuant to the settlement,
the elder Green would receive $40,000, the junior Green $30,000, and Smith
$20,000.
 
On 2/21/23, Petitioner filed a petition to approve minor’s compromise,
seeking court approval of the settlement on behalf of the minor plaintiff.  On 3/23/23, the Court granted the petition
and approved the settlement.
 
On 7/14/23, the Court heard Plaintiffs’ motion to rescind the
settlement.  The Court denied the
motion.  Additionally, the Court held, “The
Court finds that Mr. Green was present at the time of settlement, via
telephone, and the settlement may be enforced….The Court states that a noticed
Motion to Enforce Settlement must be filed as to Tinne Smith.”  
 

Motions to Enforce Settlement

a.     Motions Filed
Each of the two defendants filed motions to enforce the
settlement.  Ad Astra moves to enforce
the settlement between Tinne Smith and itself. 
Pabst Kinney moves to enforce the settlement between each of the three
plaintiffs and itself.  
 
b.     Jeron Green, Sr.
To the extent Pabst Kinney moves to enforce the settlement between
itself and Jeron Green, Sr., the motion is granted.  Notably, the Court previously indicated, on
7/14/23, that it would enforce the settlement between these two parties.  It is unclear if additional relief was
necessary as to Green, Sr.  In any event,
the motion is granted.  
 
c.    
Tinne
Smith
To the extent both motions seek relief as to Smith, the motions are
denied.  While CCP §664.6 was recently
amended to permit an attorney to bind a client by signing a written agreement,
the portion of §664.6 concerning oral agreements before the court was not
similarly amended.  Thus, the clients
must still personally agree to the settlement in open court before it can be
enforced.  In this case, all parties
appear to agree that Smith was not present.  
 
Defendants’ motion contains no authority permitting the Court to
enforce a settlement, per §664.6, against a party who orally agreed to the
settlement through her attorney.  The Court
knows of no such authority.  The motions to
enforce the settlement between Smith and Defendants are therefore denied.  
 
d.     Jeron Green, Jr.
 The Court’s 7/14/23 minute order was silent
concerning whether the Court would enforce the settlement as to Green, Jr.  Only Pabst Kinney moves to enforce the
settlement between it and the minor plaintiff. 
The Court finds the minor plaintiff was “present” and “agreed to the
settlement,” such that the requirements of §664.6 are satisfied, because the
minor plaintiff has been appearing in this action through his GAL, the elder
Green, who was present on the hearing date at issue.  
 
Therefore, Pabst Kinney’s motion to
enforce the settlement between the minor plaintiff and it is granted.  
 
The Court has previously informed
the plaintiffs that they must have the minor plaintiff’s funds placed in a blocked
account in order to finalize the settlement. 
If they fail to do so, the funds will remain inaccessible to any of the
plaintiffs indefinitely.  
 
Defendants are ordered to give notice.  
 
Parties who intend to submit
on this tentative must contact the clerk at 562-256-2227 indicating intention to submit on the tentative as directed by
the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the tentative
and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed off calendar.  If a party submits on the tentative, the
party’s email must include the case number and must identify the party
submitting on the tentative. If any party does not submit on the tentative, the
party should make arrangements to appear remotely at the hearing on this
matter.   