 Case Number:  22LBCV00828    Hearing Date:   October 3, 2023    Dept:  S27 1.    
Background Facts
Plaintiff, Keystone Industries LBC, LLC filed this action against
Defendants, Fred Kazemi, Cary Alexander, and FK Realty, LLC for forcible
detainer (CCP §1159(A)(2)) and forcible detainer (CCP §1160(A)(1)).  Plaintiff filed its complaint on
11/18/22.  
 
On 12/02/22, FK Realty responded to the complaint by filing a
demurrer.  On 12/16/22, Kazemi and
Alexander responded to the complaint by filing a demurrer.  The hearing was continued several times, and
on 6/02/23, Plaintiff filed a First Amended Complaint.  The FAC includes the original forcible
detainer causes of action, but also contains causes of action for breach of
contract, promissory estoppel, interference with economic relations and
contractual relations, conversion, and declaratory relief.  
 
The Court ultimately struck the FAC, finding the inclusion of the other
causes of action was improper in this forcible detainer action.  The Court overruled all of the defendants’
demurrers to the original complaint, which remains operative.  
 
2.    
Motion to Expunge Lis Pendens
a.    
Law
Governing Motions to Expunge Lis Pendens
In a motion to expunge a notice of lis pendens, the claimant who filed
the lis pendens has the burden of proof. 
(CCP §405.30.)  Thus, that
claimant, in opposing the motion to expunge the lis pendens, must demonstrate
the following: (1) the action affects title to or right of possession of the
real property described in the notice; (2) in so far as the said notice is
concerned, the party recording the notice has commenced the action for a proper
purpose and in good faith; and (3) the probable validity of the real property
claim by a preponderance of the evidence. 
(Hunting World, Inc. v. Superior Court (1994) 22 Cal.App.4th 67, 70; see
also CCP §405.30, et seq.)  The court
must order the notice expunged if it finds the pleading on which the notice is
based does not contain a real property claim (CCP §405.31) or the claimant has
not established by a preponderance of the evidence the probably validity of the
real property claim (CCP §405.32). A claim has “probable validity” where it is
more likely than not that the plaintiff will obtain a judgment against the
defendant on that claim.  (CCP
§481.190.)  
 
Additionally, the notice must be expunged even if the real property
claim has probable validity if adequate relief can be secured to the claimant
by the posting of a bond.  The order
expunging the notice is conditioned upon the moving party showing it has posted
said bond.  (CCP §405.33.)  In determining the amount of the bond
required, the presumption of Civil Code §3387, that real property is unique,
does not apply except in the case of a single-family residence which claimant
intends to occupy.  The court may, upon
motion, require the claimant to give the moving party a bond as a condition of
maintaining the notice.  If claimant fails
to comply with the order requiring the posting of a bond, the court must order
the notice expunged without further notice or hearing.  (CCP §405.34.)
 
Pursuant to CCP §405.38, “The court shall direct that the party
prevailing on any motion under this chapter be awarded the reasonable
attorney’s fees and costs of making or opposing the motion unless the court
finds that the other party acted with substantial justification or that other
circumstances make the imposition of attorney’s fees and costs unjust.”
 
b.    
Initial
Note
Plaintiff argues, at page 5 of its opposition, that the Court declined
to relate this case to the prior UD action, which “alone all but establishes
Plaintiff…cannot be bound by the judgment reached in the UD.”  The issue in this case is whether Plaintiff
has a valid lease assignment, which issue is not related in any manner to the
determination of whether the cases are related. 

 
c.    
Prior
Hearing
The Court was originally scheduled to hear this motion on 9/07/23.  Prior to the hearing, the Court issued a
detailed tentative ruling denying the motion to expunge.  The Court incorporates that prior tentative
ruling into this ruling by reference, and will not repeat the analysis
here.  
 
At the 9/07/23 hearing, Defendant argued the prior UD judgment applies
to Plaintiff, because it applies to all tenants, subtenants, named claimants,
and other occupants of the premises.  The
Court continued the hearing to permit the parties to further brief the issue.
 
d.    
Further
Briefing
The parties have submitted the request for entry of judgment and
default judgment from 22LBCV00132 with the supplemental papers.  Plaintiff argues the documents show judgment
was entered only against Keystone Industries, LLC and not against it, Keystone
Industries LBC, LLC.  Defendant argues
the judgment includes all tenants, subtenants, named claimants, and other
occupants of the premises, and therefore also applies to Keystone Industries
LBC, LLC.
 
The Court has reviewed the 5/18/22 request for entry of default and
court judgment and the resulting 7/01/22 default judgment, and the Court finds
errors made by Defendant in filling out the forms resulted in the judgment not
being entered against all tenants, subtenants, named claimants, and other
occupants of the premises.
 
The request for entry of default form, at the top, has “entry of default”
and “court judgment” checked.  However,
at ¶1(c) and (e), FK Realty sought entry of default and “clerk’s judgment.”  Thus, the two sets of boxes were in
conflict.  FK Realty did, at bot 1(e)(1)
of the request, indicate it wanted to have clerk’s judgment entered against all
tenants, subtenants, named claimants, and other occupants of the premises.
 
The actual judgment, entered on 7/01/22, was on a form that FK Realty
filled out.  The form indicated it was
seeking judgment – unlawful detainer by default by court (not by clerk).  At ¶1, the box for clerk’s judgment for
possession is NOT checked.  Instead, only
the box for court judgment after written declaration is checked.  ¶4 is checked, and states that the Court
finds FK Realty is entitled to possession of the premises.  ¶5, however, is NOT checked.  This is the paragraph that would provide for
a judgment applying to all occupants of the premises.  
 
FK Realty cites to numerous authorities holding that a clerk’s judgment
is a ministerial act and the clerk, once requested to do so, is obligated to
enter judgment for possession against tenants, subtenants, etc.  FK Realty, however, was also under an
obligation to submit the proper documents for processing in order to obtain the
judgment it sought.  
 
FK Realty has not pointed to any provision of any actual judgment that
is signed by the Court or entered by the Clerk that provides for possession in
favor of FK Realty and against all tenants, subtenants, named claimants, and
other occupants of the premises.  While FK
Realty may have intended to obtain such a judgment, it did not take the
necessary steps to do so.  Its argument therefore
fails, and the Court denies the motion to expunge.  
 
3.     Case
Management Conference
The parties are reminded that there
is a CMC on calendar concurrently with the hearing on the above motion.  The Court asks Counsel to make arrangements
to appear remotely at the CMC and hearing on the motion.