 Case Number:  22LBCV00019    Hearing Date:   October 3, 2023    Dept:  S27 1.    
Background Facts
Plaintiff, Ariel Knight filed this action against Defendants, Robert Louis
Wood, Jacqueline Amy Wood, The Wood Family Trust, Robert Louis Wood and
Jacqueline Amy Wood as Trustees, and Henry Perry for damages arising out of the
parties’ landlord-tenant relationship.  
 
2.    
Motion to Deem RFAs Admitted
On 7/28/23, Defendants filed this
motion to deem RFAs (set two) admitted. 
Defendants’ motion establishes that they propounded the subject discovery
on 6/20/23.  Plaintiff did not serve
responses.  Defendants therefore seek an
order compelling deeming the RFAs admitted and imposing sanctions.  
 
The motion to deem RFAs admitted is
granted.  CCP §§2033.280(b), (c).
Defendants seek monetary sanctions
against Plaintiff and her attorney of record. 
Sanctions are absolutely mandatory, and must be imposed even if
Plaintiff provides responses prior to the hearing and/or shows good cause for
the failure to provide timely responses. 
§2033.280(c).
 
Defendants seek sanctions in the
amount of $1297.50.  Defense Counsel
declares he spent 2.5 hours preparing the moving papers, will spend 1.5 hours reviewing
the opposition and preparing a reply, and will spend 1.5 hours attending the
hearing on the motion.  The Court awards
one hour of attorney time for the preparation of this form discovery motion and
related papers.  No opposition was filed,
and therefore no time to review the opposition or prepare a reply was necessary.  The Court notes that Defendant filed a notice
of non-opposition, but this document serves no purpose, as the Court can review
its own file and ascertain that there is no opposition to the motion.  The Court awards one hour to appear at the
hearing, as the Court encourages remote appearances, and no more than one hour
of time should be spent in connection with the remote appearance.  The Court therefore awards a total of two
hours of attorney time at the requested rate of $225/hour, or $450 in attorneys’
fees.  The Court also awards the requested
$60 filing fee.
 
Sanctions are sought and imposed
against Plaintiff and her attorney of record, jointly and severally.  They are ordered to pay sanctions to Defendants,
by and through their attorney of record, in the total amount of $510, within
twenty days.  
 
3.     Motion
for Terminating Sanctions
On 9/08/23, Defendants filed this
motion for terminating sanctions.  They seek
imposition of terminating sanctions against Plaintiff on the ground that
Plaintiff has engaged in repeated abuses of the discovery process.  Specifically, they point to the following abuses
of the discovery process:
·        
On 12/20/22, the Court granted three motions to
compel and ordered responses within ten days. 
Plaintiff responded on 3/10/23, many months later, after Defendants
filed a motion for terminating sanctions (which they ultimately withdrew).
·        
On 8/24/23, the Court granted motions to compel
responses to supplemental discovery and ordered Plaintiff to respond within ten
days.  As of the filing date of the motion,
Plaintiff had not yet responded.
·        
Defendants have a pending motion, discussed
above, to deem RFAs admitted.
 
In opposition to the motion,
Plaintiff contends she served responses to the supplemental discovery on
9/19/23, fourteen days after responses were due.  Defendants, in reply, correctly note that responses
were DUE on 5/08/23, such that Plaintiff failed to comply with the actual
deadline and also the court-imposed post-motion deadline.  Defendants also contend they have never
actually been served with the responses, and only has them as copies attached
to the opposition.  Plaintiff contends
the failure to timely respond to the discovery was due to her attorney’s trial
schedule, which was very busy during September. 
Counsel does not mention anything in the declaration about why responses
were not served between the time discovery was propounded in April and the time
responses were ultimately served in September. 
If Counsel cannot manage his trial schedule, Counsel should reduce his
case load, as discovery obligations do not disappear when a trial goes
forward.  At a minimum, Counsel could
have communicated about the problem and provided an anticipated date for
responses.  
 
The Court finds Plaintiff’s conduct
in this case egregious.  The Court does,
however, acknowledge that terminating sanctions are only warranted in the most
extreme of cases, and are typically not awarded when outstanding discovery
obligations have been complied with (though on an entirely untimely
basis).  The Court is inclined to deny the
request for terminating sanctions.  
 
The Court would be inclined to
impose monetary sanctions.  The notice of
motion, however, fails to comply with CCP §2023.040, which requires the notice
of motion to identify each party, person, and/or attorney against whom
sanctions are sought.  Defendants’ notice
of motion fails to do so.  The Court is
therefore without power to award monetary sanctions. 
 
Defendants are ordered to give notice.  
 
Parties who intend to submit
on this tentative must contact the clerk at 562-256-2227 indicating intention to submit on the tentative as directed by
the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the tentative
and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed off calendar.  If a party submits on the tentative, the
party’s email must include the case number and must identify the party
submitting on the tentative. If any party does not submit on the tentative, the
party should make arrangements to appear remotely at the hearing on this matter.
  