 Case Number:  22LBCV00062    Hearing Date:   October 3, 2023    Dept:  S27 
Background Facts

Plaintiffs, Hany Hegazy, Taha Deif,
Moustafa Ahmed Shokr, and TMH, LLC filed this action against Defendants, Giang
Hong and Hai Hong on 2/10/22.  Plaintiffs
added Suong Thi Trinh as a doe defendant. 
On 12/13/22, Trinh filed a demurrer to the complaint.  Prior to the hearing, Plaintiffs filed their
operative First Amended Complaint on 3/15/23. 
The FAC includes causes of action for conversion, fraud and deceit, breach
of written lease contracts, and breach of oral contract.  
 
Plaintiffs allege Defendants agreed
to lease commercial property to them, and represented to them the property was zoned
for the use that they intended. 
Plaintiffs allege they spent $70,000 building out the property, but were
unable to obtain permits to operate their intended mini-market and smoke shop
because the premises were not zoned for such use.  

Demurrer to FAC

a.    
Legal Standard on Demurrer
A demurrer is a pleading used to test
the legal sufficiency of other pleadings. It raises issues of law, not fact,
regarding the form or content of the opposing party’s pleading.  It is not the function of the demurrer to
challenge the truthfulness of the complaint; and for purpose of the ruling on
the demurrer, all facts pleaded in the complaint are assumed to be true,
however improbable they may be.
 
A demurrer can be used only to
challenge defects that appear on the face of the pleading under attack; or from
matters outside the pleading that are judicially noticeable. Blank v. Kirwan 39
Cal.3d 311 (1985). No other extrinsic evidence can be considered (i.e., no
“speaking demurrers”). A demurrer is brought under CCP § 430.10 [grounds], §
430.30 [as to any matter on its face or from which judicial notice may be
taken], and § 430.50(a) [can be taken to the entire complaint or any cause of
action within].  Specifically, a demurrer
may be brought per CCP § 430.10(e) if insufficient facts are stated to support
the cause of action asserted.  Per CCP
§430.10(a) a demurrer may be brought where the court has no jurisdiction of the
subject of the cause of action alleged in the pleading.  Furthermore, demurrer for uncertainty will be
sustained only where the complaint is so bad that the defendant cannot reasonably
respond.  CCP § 430.10(f).  
 
However, in construing the
allegations, the court is to give effect to specific factual allegations that
may modify or limit inconsistent general or conclusory allegations. Financial
Corporation of America v. Wilburn, 189 Cal.App.3rd 764, 769 (1987). And, if the
facts pled in the complaint are inconsistent with facts which are incorporated
by reference from exhibits attached to the complaint, the facts in the
incorporated exhibits control. Further, irrespective of the name or label given
to a cause of action by the plaintiff, a general demurrer must be overruled if
the facts as pled in the body of the complaint state some valid claim for relief.
Special demurrers are not allowed in limited jurisdiction courts. (CCP § 92(c).)
Leave to amend must be allowed
where there is a reasonable possibility of successful amendment. Goodman v.
Kennedy, 18 Cal.3d 335, 348 (1976). The burden is on the complainant to show
the Court that a pleading can be amended successfully. (Id.) 
 
Finally, CCP section 430.41
requires that “[b]efore filing a demurrer pursuant to this chapter, the
demurring party shall meet and confer in person or by telephone with the party
who filed the pleading that is subject to demurrer for the purpose of determining
whether an agreement can be reached that would resolve the objections to be
raised in the demurrer.” (CCP §430.41(a).) The parties are to meet and confer
at least five days before the date the responsive pleading is due. (CCP §430.41(a)(2).)
Thereafter, the demurring party shall file and serve a declaration detailing
their meet and confer efforts. (CCP §430.41(a)(3).)
 
b.     Meet
and Confer
Defense Counsel declares he sent a
meet and confer email and Plaintiffs never responded.  The Code requires meet and confer efforts by
phone or in person, not by email.  The Court
will require Counsel to engage in the required meet and confer efforts before
it rules on this demurrer.  
 
The hearing on the demurrer is continued
for one month, to Tuesday, 11/07/23 at 8:30 a.m. in Department S27.  Counsel are ordered to meet and confer forthwith.  If Counsel are unable to come to agreement
concerning the issues presented on demurrer, the attorneys for both sides must
file meet and confer declarations at least two weeks prior to the continued
hearing date.  The parties must also file
short briefs detailing which issues were resolved and which issues remain to be
decided at the hearing by October 31, 2023. 
  
 
Defendants are ordered to give notice.  
 
Parties who intend to submit
on this tentative must contact the clerk at 562-256-2227 indicating intention to submit on the tentative as directed by
the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the tentative
and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed off calendar.  If a party submits on the tentative, the
party’s email must include the case number and must identify the party
submitting on the tentative. If any party does not submit on the tentative, the
party should make arrangements to appear remotely at the hearing on this matter.
  