 Case Number:  21LBCV00557    Hearing Date:   October 3, 2023    Dept:  S27 a.    
Parties’ Positions
Defendant and Cross-Complainant,
Assistance at Home Care, moves for an award of attorneys’ fees pursuant to Civil
Code §1717 as the prevailing party in this action.  Plaintiff and Cross-Defendant, Globa Regency
Senior Care Services, LLC opposes the motion, arguing (a) the parties entered
into a subsequent contract settling the action that precludes an attorneys’
fees award, and (b) the amount of fees sought is excessive.  
 
b.    
Timeliness of Opposition
Assistance argues the opposition
was not timely and should not be considered. 
The opposition was filed and served one day late, likely because of the
newly-enacted 9/22/23 court holiday.  The
Court finds refusing to consider the opposition would be unduly harsh, as this
is the first year the holiday has been recognized, and many documents from many
attorneys have been late-filed because of the newly-enacted holiday.  The Court has read and considered the
opposition and reply papers.
 
c.    
Subsequent Contract
On 8/08/22, Assistance filed a motion
to enforce the parties’ settlement, setting it for hearing on 1/24/23.  On 1/20/23, Global filed an untimely opposition
to the motion.  In its opposition, Global
argued it had fully paid all monies due under the settlement, and the motion
should be denied.  On 1/24/23, the Court
granted the motion to enforce the parties’ settlement.  
 
On 4/04/23, Assistance filed this
motion for attorneys’ fees.  On 9/20/23,
Global timely filed opposition to the motion. 
Global argues, in opposition to the motion, that the parties’
communications between 1/10/23 and 1/17/23 constituted a “new contract,” such
that the §998 offer no longer governs the parties’ relationship, and attorneys’
fees should not be awarded.  
 
Global’s argument is rejected for two
reasons.  First, Global did not advance
this argument in opposition to the motion to enforce and did not move for
reconsideration or a new trial in connection with the order enforcing the
parties’ agreement, and did not appeal the judgment.  Global has therefore waived any right to do
so now.  Second, Assistance moves for
attorneys’ fees pursuant to the parties’ original agreement, not pursuant to
the §998 agreement, and nothing in Global’s argument changes the fact that
Assistance is the prevailing party in this action.  
 
The Court therefore finds
Assistance is entitled to an award of its attorneys’ fees pursuant to the
parties’ agreement and Civil Code §1717.
 
d.     Amount
of Fees
Assistance seeks to recover fees in
the total amount of $41,535.  Assistance
supports its request with the declaration of its attorney, Mark D. Magarian,
who establishes that the rates of the attorneys who worked on this case ranged
from $125/hour to $350/hour, and who attaches the billing records from the case
as Exhibit C to his declaration.  
 
Global, in opposition to the
motion, argues the fees charged are excessive in light of the simplicity of the
case.  Specifically, Global argues the
time billed in connection with discovery was unnecessary, both because the discovery
actually conducted was repetitive and burdensome, and also because the second
set of discovery was being prepared during settlement efforts and was never
ultimately propounded, rendering it unnecessary.  Global fails to point to any specific
discovery that was redundant, and fails to show that continuing to conduct
discovery while settlement negotiations are ongoing is atypical or otherwise
precluded.  
 
Global also argues the hours spent
and billing rates charged in connection with the motion to enforce are
excessive.  The rate charged was
$250/hour, which is objectively reasonable. 
The fact that Global’s attorney charges $200/hour is not relevant to the
issue of whether $250/hour is a reasonable rate.  The Court has reviewed the billing records in
connection with the motion to enforce, and finds they are detailed and do not
reveal any inefficiencies or other improper conduct.  By way of example, there are numerous entries
for .1 and .2 hours to communicate with the client, communicate with the court,
etc., in connection with the motion.  There
are detailed entries showing what was researched, such as whether a §998 offer
can be enforced by way of a §664.6 motion, whether prejudgment interest is
recoverable, and whether the citations in the Court’s tentative ruling were
distinguishable or binding.  Global has
not pointed to any specific entry that is improper, and the Court has located
none.
 
Finally, Global argues Assistance “billed
for its own mistake” because it named a party who should not have been named in
the lawsuit.  In reply, Assistance shows
that the mis-named party was added because Global itself had used both names in
communication, and that Global’s attorney apologized for any confusion in an
email.  The Court finds naming the
ultimately dismissed party was not a “mistake,” and was reasonable under the
circumstances.  
 
The Court awards the full amount of
fees sought.  
 
Assistance is ordered to give notice.  
 
Parties who intend to submit
on this tentative must contact the clerk at 562-256-2227 indicating intention to submit on the tentative as directed by
the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the tentative
and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed off calendar.  If a party submits on the tentative, the
party’s email must include the case number and must identify the party submitting
on the tentative. If any party does not submit on the tentative, the party
should make arrangements to appear remotely at the hearing on this matter.   