 Case Number:  23LBCV00238    Hearing Date:   October 3, 2023    Dept:  S27 1.     Background
Facts
Plaintiffs, Michele and Barrett
Travis filed this action against Defendants, Fred Di Bernardo and Katheryne
Vance for damages arising out of an alleged leak in Defendants’ condo unit,
which is above Plaintiffs’ condo unit. 
Plaintiffs allege Di Bernardo owns the unit and Vance is the tenant in
the unit.  Plaintiffs’ complaint includes
causes of action for breach of governing documents, nuisance, negligence, and declaratory
relief.  
 
2.     Demurrer
to Answer
a.     Procedural
History
Plaintiffs filed their complaint on
2/08/23.  Vance filed her answer on
5/09/23.  Plaintiffs filed a declaration
in support of automatic extension of time to demur to the answer on
5/23/23.  Plaintiffs filed their demurrer
on 6/22/23, setting it for hearing on 12/05/23. 
The parties attended a Case Management Conference on 7/10/23, at which
time the Court advanced the hearing on the demurrer and scheduled it for
10/03/23.  All parties waived notice of
the changed hearing date.  
 
Any opposition to the demurrer was
due on or before 9/19/23.  The Court has
not received opposition to the demurrer. 

 
b.     Basis
for Demurrer
Plaintiffs demur to the answer,
contending the first through twentieth affirmative defense fails to state a
defense and are uncertain.  
 
c.    
Law
Regarding Answers
A verified complaint must be denied
positively or according to information and belief.  (CCP §431.30(d).)  Anything less than a general denial of the
whole complaint is a “qualified” or “specific” denial.  Defendant can direct his/her denials to
specific sentences, paragraphs or parts of the complaint.  Defendant can also effectively deny
allegations in the complaint by alleging contrary or inconsistent facts.  (This latter method is not widely used.)
 
In addition to denials, the answer
should contain whatever affirmative defenses or objections to the complaint
that defendant may have, and that would otherwise not be in issue under a
simple denial.  Such defenses or
objections are “new matter.”  (CCP §431.30(b).)  In general, defendant bears the burden of
proving “new matter” and, as such, must be specifically pleaded in the
answer.  (California Academy of Sciences
v. County of Fresno (1987) 192 Cal.App.3d 1436, 1442.)  The same pleading of “ultimate facts” rather
than evidentiary matter or legal conclusions is required as in pleading the
complaint.  The answer must aver facts as
carefully and with as much detail as the facts which constitute the cause of
action and which are alleged in the complaint. 
(FPI Development, Inc. v. Nakashimi (1991) 231 Cal.App.3d 367,
384.)  The various affirmative defenses
must be separately stated and must refer to the causes of action to which they
relate “in a manner by which they may be intelligently distinguished.”  (CCP §431.30(g).)
 
d.    
Twelfth
Affirmative Defenses
Defendant’s twelfth affirmative
defense is that the complaint is barred by the statute of limitations.  CCP §458 specifically provides that a statute
of limitations affirmative defense may be pled without any accompanying facts.  The demurrer to the twelfth affirmative defense
is therefore overruled.
 
e.     Second, Fifth, Tenth, Fourteenth, and Sixteenth
Affirmative Defenses
Defendant’s second affirmative
defense is that the complaint fails to state a cause of action. This
affirmative defense is not in the style of “yes, but,” as is required in order
to state an affirmative defense. 
Plaintiff’s burden of proof remains the same regardless of whether this
defense is stated in the answer.  The
demurrer to the second affirmative defense is therefore sustained without leave
to amend.  Similarly, the fifth, tenth, fourteenth,
and sixteenth affirmative defenses all essentially plead that Plaintiffs cannot
make out a prima facie case against Defendant, and therefore these defenses are
not in the form of affirmative defenses, but rather go to Plaintiffs’ prima
facie ability to prove up their case.  The
demurrer to each of them is sustained without leave to amend.
 
f.     
First,
Sixth, Eleventh, and Fifteenth Affirmative Defenses 
These affirmative defenses
collectively assert Plaintiffs and others shared in the negligence that gave
rise to the accident, such that her damages against Defendant should be
limited.  A plaintiff can plead
negligence in general terms.  See Rannard
v. Lockheed Aircraft Corp. (1945) 26 Cal.2d 149, 154-155.  If a complaint for negligence can be pled in general
terms, it is not clear why an answer would require more specificity.  The demurrer to these defenses is overruled.
 
g.    
Third,
Fourth, Seventh, Eighth, and Ninth Affirmative Defense 
Defendant’s third, fourth, seventh,
eighth, and ninth affirmative defenses allege assumption of the risk, failure
to mitigate, estoppel, unclean hands, and laches.  The defenses fail to state any facts in
support thereof.  As noted above, an
affirmative defense is not well-pled unless it includes facts to support the
assertion of same.  The Court understands
Defendant may not currently have facts in her possession relating to these
defenses.  If Defendant lacks facts to
support her defenses now, she must not assert them unless and until she learns
of these facts.  The demurrer to these affirmative
defenses is sustained with leave to amend. 

 
h.    
Tenth
Affirmative Defenses
The tenth affirmative defense
contends liability should be apportioned among the various defendants.  This is merely a statement of the law, and
stating the law is not necessary in an answer. 
The demurrer is sustained without leave to amend.  
 
i.      Thirteenth,
Seventeenth, Nineteenth, and Twentieth Affirmative Defenses
These affirmative defenses allege
lack of notice on the part of Defendant, failure to participate in ADR barring
recovery of attorneys’ fees, bar of causes of action under the CC&Rs, and
bar of action due to failure to participate in arbitration.  It is unclear what additional facts could be
pled to support these defenses, and therefore the demurrer is overruled.
 
j.      Eighteenth
Affirmative Defense
Defendant’s eighteenth affirmative
defense alleges she may have additional defenses and reserves the right to
plead them.  The Code of Civil Procedure
governs motions for leave to amend.  Asserting
one’s rights under the Code is not necessary in an answer.  The demurrer to this affirmative defense is
sustained without leave to amend.
 
k.    
Conclusion
The demurrer is sustained in part
and overruled in part as set forth fully above. 
Defendant is ordered to file an amended answer within twenty days.  Defendant is ordered to omit any affirmative
defense for which she does not have factual support.  Defendant may, of course, file a motion for
leave to amend her answer if she discovers facts to support any additional
affirmative defense during the course of litigation.  The Court strongly encourages the parties to
meet and confer and stipulate to the filing of an amended answer in the event
this occurs.
 
The Court reminds Defendant that
she has an obligation to meet and confer in connection with pleading challenges.  If Plaintiffs challenge Defendant’s amended
answer, Defendant must fully participate in that process and must file timely
opposition to any pleading challenge if she wishes to maintain the defenses she
sets forth.  
 
Plaintiffs are ordered to give
notice.  
 
Parties who intend to submit
on this tentative must contact the clerk at 562-256-2227 indicating intention to submit on the tentative as directed by
the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  If a party submits on
the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must identify
the party submitting on the tentative.  If
the parties do not submit on the tentative, they should arrange to appear
remotely.