 Case Number:  24STCV22903    Hearing Date:   December 31, 2024    Dept:  71 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
 
DEPARTMENT 71
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 



R. E.,
  
         vs.
 
LOS ANGELES
  UNIFIED SCHOOL DISTRICT, et al. 


 Case No.: 
  24STCV22903
 
 
 
 Hearing Date:  December 31, 2024



 
Defendant Los
Angeles Unified School District’s demurrer to Plaintiff R.E.’s Complaint is overruled as to the 3rd, 4th, 5th, and 6th causes of action.
 
Defendant Los Angeles Unified School District (“LAUSD”) (“Moving
Defendant”) demurs Plaintiff R.E.’s (“R.E.”) (“Plaintiff”) 3rd, 4th, 5th, and
6th causes of action in his complaint (“Complaint”).  (Notice of Demurrer, pgs. 1-4; C.C.P.
§§430.10(e), (f).)[1]
 
Meet and Confer
Before filing a demurrer, the demurring party must meet and
confer in person, by telephone, or by video conference with the party
who filed the pleading to attempt to reach an agreement that would resolve the
objections to the pleading and obviate the need for filing the demurrer.  (C.C.P. §430.41(a), emphasis added.)
The demurring party shall file and serve with the demurrer
a declaration stating either of the following: (A) The means by which the
demurring party met and conferred with the party who filed the pleading subject
to demurrer, and that the parties did not reach an agreement resolving the
objections raised in the demurrer. (B) That the party who filed the pleading
subject to demurrer failed to respond to the meet and confer request of the
demurring party or otherwise failed to meet and confer in good faith.  (C.C.P. §430.41(a)(3).)
Moving Defendant’s counsel declares that “[o]ver the course
of several email exchanges, I informed Plaintiff’s counsel of the District’s position
with respect to Plaintiff’s third, fourth, fifth, and sixth causes of action
for Bane and Ralph Act violations and two intentional torts. Plaintiff’s
counsel indicated that Plaintiff would not dismiss these causes of actions
therefore necessitating this motion.”  (Decl.
of Harber ¶3.)  Defendants’ counsel’s
declaration is sufficient under C.C.P. §430.41(a)(3)(B).  In the future, Moving Defendant’s counsel is
to attempt to meet and confer with Plaintiff’s counsel in person, by
telephone, or by video conference as required by C.C.P. §430.41(a); corresponding
by email or letter does not meet the requirements of the statute.  Therefore, the Court will consider Moving Defendant’s
demurrer.
 
Procedural
Background
          Plaintiff
filed the operative Complaint on September 5, 2024, against Moving Defendant  and Non-moving Defendant Autism Learning
Partners, LLC (“ALP”) (collectively, “Defendants”)[2] alleging
six causes of action: (1) Negligence Contract [against Defendants]; (2) Negligent
Training, Supervision, and Retention [against Defendants]; (3) Violation
of the Bane Act, Civil Code §52.1 [against Defendants]; (4) Violation of
the Ralph Civil Rights Act, Civil Code §51.7 [against Defendants]; (5)
Battery [against Defendants]; and (6) Assault [against Defendants].
Moving Defendant filed the instant demurrer on October 29,
2024.  Plaintiff filed his opposition on
December 17, 2024.  Moving Defendant
filed its reply on December 23, 2024.
 
Summary of Allegations
Plaintiff alleges he has autism and an intellectual
disability.  (Complaint ¶1.)  Plaintiff alleges he is 16 years old, yet his
cognitive abilities are those of a 1.5-year-old, and he is nonverbal.  (Complaint ¶1.)  Plaintiff alleges that during the 2023-2024
school year, he was a 10th grader receiving special education at Sophia T.
Salvin Special Education Center (“Special Education Center”), a school that is
supported and administered by LAUSD. 
(Complaint ¶1.)  
Plaintiff alleges Does 1 through 10, inclusive, and each of
them, are sued herein under said fictitious names.  (Complaint ¶6.)  Plaintiff alleges Doe 1 is the Behavior
Intervention Implementation (“BII”) aide who abused Plaintiff.  Plaintiff alleges that at all relevant times, Doe
1 was an employee and agent of ALP, contracted to work at the Special Education
Center as an agent of LAUSD.  (Complaint
¶6.)  Plaintiff alleges Does 2-5 are ALP
employees and agents of LAUSD at all times relevant to the Complaint.  (Complaint ¶6.)  Plaintiff alleges Does 6-10 are LAUSD
employees at all times relevant to the Complaint.  (Complaint ¶6.)  Plaintiff alleges their true names and
capacities are unknown to Plaintiff. 
(Complaint ¶6.)
Plaintiff alleges Does 1 through 10 were employees and/or
agents of the LAUSD and/or ALP and acting within their employment and/or agency
relationship when they engaged in the unlawful acts and omissions described in
this complaint that harmed Plaintiff.  (Complaint ¶7.)  Plaintiff alleges LAUSD and ALP ratified the
unlawful actions and omissions of Does 1 through 10, in that its supervisory officials
knew all the material facts of their misconduct after it occurred, and approved
of it by retaining Does 1 through 10 and failing to take reasonable measures to
stop the misconduct, such as by investigating or disciplining those
responsible.  (Complaint ¶7.)
Plaintiff alleges that at all times mentioned herein, each
Defendant was the agent, servant, and/or employee of the other Defendants, and
each Defendant was acting in the course and scope of his/her as an agent,
servant, and/or employee of the other Defendants.  (Complaint ¶8.)  Plaintiff alleges the Defendants, and each of
them, are individuals, who engaged in, joined in, and conspired with the other
wrongdoers in carrying out the tortious and/or negligent or unlawful activities
described in this Complaint, and the Defendants, and each of them, ratified the
acts of the other Defendants as described in this Complaint.  (Complaint ¶8.)  
Plaintiff alleges on information and belief that Defendants
and each of them were the agents, representatives, and/or employees of each
other and every other Defendant.  (Complaint ¶10.)  Plaintiff alleges in doing the things
hereinafter alleged, Defendants and each of them were acting within the course
and scope of said alternative personality, capacity, identity, agency,
representation, and/or employment and were within the scope of their authority,
whether actual or apparent.  (Complaint ¶10.)  
Plaintiff alleges on information and belief that at all
times mentioned herein, Defendants and each of them were the trustees,
partners, servants, joint venturers, shareholders, contractors, and/or
employees of each and every other Defendant, and the acts and omissions herein
alleged were done by them, acting individually, through such capacity and
within the scope of their authority, and with the permission and consent of
each and every other Defendant and that said conduct was thereafter ratified by
each and every other Defendant and that each of them is jointly and severally
liable to Plaintiff.  (Complaint ¶11.)
Plaintiff alleges that During the 2023-2024 school year, LAUSD
assigned R.E. two BII aides for his disability-related behavioral issues at
school.  (Complaint ¶19.)  Plaintiff alleges the BII aides worked for
ALP, which was contracted by LAUSD. 
(Complaint ¶19.)  
Plaintiff alleges the BII aides, and all staff working with
and supervising R.E. at the Special Education Center, knew that his
disabilities would make it impossible for him to report abuse.  (Complaint ¶20.)  
Plaintiff alleges one of the BII aides assigned to R.E., Doe
1, physically, psychologically, and emotionally abused him during the 2023-2024
school year. (Complaint ¶21.)  Plaintiff
alleges Doe 1 made forcible physical contact with Plaintiff’s body, causing him
substantial physical and emotional pain. 
(Complaint ¶21.)  Plaintiff
alleges he did not consent to this forcible physical contact and the touching
was offensive to both a reasonable person in general and Plaintiff in
particular.  (Complaint ¶21.)  Plaintiff alleges the forcible touching
amounted to child abuse.  (Complaint ¶21.)
Plaintiff alleges his family first discovered the abuse on
or about April 17, 2024, when a Vice Principal at the Special Education Center
called his mother to inform her that the school had called authorities to
report child abuse against R.E.  (Complaint ¶22.)  Plaintiff alleges the Vice Principal said
that the person who committed the abuse was the male BII aide assigned to R.E.,
and that he had been let go from the school.  (Complaint ¶22.)  Plaintiff alleges on information and belief
that school administrators had received a report that the aide pinched R.E.’s
hand on or about April 17, 2024.  (Complaint ¶22.)  Plaintiff alleges The Los Angeles Police Department
opened an investigation into the incident.  (Complaint ¶22.)  
Plaintiff alleges on information and belief that the BII
aide had been physically abusing R.E. for several months.  (Complaint ¶23.)  Plaintiff alleges he had been coming home
from school with cuts, ripped clothes, pinch marks on his hands, and scratches
on his face, and had been crying more than normal.  (Complaint ¶23.)  Plaintiff alleges he also suffered from
increased aggression, anxiety, vigilance, and agitation.  (Complaint ¶23.)  
Plaintiff alleges on information and belief that in the
weeks and likely months prior to the abuse of R.E. coming to light on or about
April 17, Defendant employees and agents of the District and ALP witnessed,
suspected, and knew about the physical, psychological, and emotional abuse of R.E.
at school.  (Complaint ¶24.)  Plaintiff alleges they did not report
suspected child abuse of R.E. to law enforcement or the county welfare
department, in violation of their duties as “mandated reporters” under the Child
Abuse and Neglect Reporting Act.  (Complaint ¶24.)  
Plaintiff alleges he suffered physical, psychological, and
emotional pain and injuries as a result of the abuse by Defendant Doe 1 and the
other Defendants’ failure to report or stop it.  (Complaint ¶25.)  Plaintiff alleges the forceful physical
touching of his body led to pain, marks and scratches, and severe mental
anguish.  (Complaint ¶26.)  Plaintiff alleges the abuses also caused
dramatic changes in his behavior.  (Complaint
¶27.)  Plaintiff alleges this included
being more agitated and vigilant, having more aggressive behaviors, and crying
more than normal.  (Complaint ¶27.)  Plaintiff alleges he also started engaging in
the self-injurious behaviors of rubbing his chin uncontrollably, pinching his
own face and neck, and trying to pull his hair out.  (Complaint ¶27.)  Plaintiff alleges that after the abuse came
to light, his psychiatrist diagnosed him with post-traumatic stress disorder
(“PTSD”).  (Complaint ¶28.)  
 
Summary of Demurrer
Moving Defendant demurs to the
3rd, 4th, 5th, and 6th causes of action on the basis they fail to state facts
sufficient to constitute causes of action against Defendants and are uncertain.
 (Demurrer, pgs. 1-3; C.C.P. §§430.10(e),
(f).)
 
Legal Standard
“[A] demurrer tests the legal sufficiency of the allegations in a
complaint.” (Lewis v. Safeway, Inc. (2015) 235 Cal.App.4th 385,
388.)  A demurrer can be used only to
challenge defects that appear on the face of the pleading under attack or from
matters outside the pleading that are judicially noticeable.  (See Donabedian v. Mercury Insurance Co. (2004)
116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994 [in ruling on a demurrer, a court may not consider
declarations, matters not subject to judicial notice, or documents not accepted
for the truth of their contents].)  For
purposes of ruling on a demurrer, all facts pleaded in a complaint are assumed
to be true, but the reviewing court does not assume the truth of conclusions of
law.  (Aubry v. Tri-City Hospital
District (1992) 2 Cal.4th 962, 967.)
 
Failure to State a Cause of
Action
Violation of the
Bane Act (3rd COA)
“The Bane Act permits an individual to pursue a civil
action for damages where another person ‘interferes by threat, intimidation, or
coercion, or attempts to interfere by threat, intimidation, or coercion, with
the exercise or enjoyment by any individual or individuals of rights secured by
the Constitution or laws of the United States, or of the rights secured by the
Constitution or laws of this state.’ ‘The essence of a Bane Act claim is that
the defendant, by the specified improper means (i.e., “threat[], intimidation
or coercion”), tried to or did prevent the plaintiff from doing something he or
she had the right to do under the law or to force the plaintiff to do something
that he or she was not required to do under the law.’”  (King v. State of California (2015) 242
Cal.App.4th 265, 294, internal citation omitted.) 
“[T]o state a cause of action under section 52.1 there must
first be violence or intimidation by threat of violence. Second, the violence
or threatened violence must be due to plaintiff’s membership in one of the
specified classifications set forth in Civil Code section 51.7 or a group
similarly protected by constitution or statute from hate crimes.”  (Gabrielle A. v. County of Orange
(2017) 10 Cal.App.5th 1268, 1290.) 
Plaintiff alleges Doe 1 interfered with Plaintiff’s rights
to be free from bodily restraint and harm—under California Civil Code § 43—when
he physically and emotionally abused Plaintiff, including by making forcible
physical contact with Plaintiff’s body that he did not want or consent to.  (Complaint ¶64.)
Plaintiff alleges Doe 1 interfered with Plaintiff’s rights
as a student with a disability to an “appropriate” public education—under 20
U.S.C. §1412— when he physically and emotionally abused Plaintiff.  (Complaint ¶65.)
Plaintiff Doe 1 interfered with Plaintiff’s rights to be
free from violence and intimidation committed against his person because of his
disability and medical condition—under the Ralph Civil Rights Act, California
Civil Code § 51.7—when he physically abused Plaintiff because of his
disabilities and medical condition. 
(Complaint ¶66.)
Plaintiff alleges Doe 1 interfered with Plaintiff’s right
to attend a school campus that was “safe, secure and peaceful”—under Article 1,
section 28 of the California Constitution—when he physically and emotionally
abused Plaintiff.  (Complaint ¶67.)
Plaintiff alleges Doe 1 used violence, threats, aggression,
intimidation, and coercion when he interfered with—and prevented Plaintiff from
exercising—the above-mentioned rights. 
(Complaint ¶68.)  Plaintiff
alleges Doe 1 knew that Plaintiff had these rights and intended to deprive him
of enjoying the interests they protected. 
(Complaint ¶69.)  Plaintiff
alleges Doe 1’s violent, threatening, and coercive interference with
Plaintiff’s rights were substantial factors in causing Plaintiff physical and
mental harm.  (Complaint ¶70.)
Plaintiff alleges Defendant Does 1 through 10 knew, or in
the exercise of reasonable care should have known, that unless they and each of
them intervened to protect Plaintiff and to adequately supervise, prohibit,
control, regulate, discipline, and/or otherwise penalize the conduct and acts of
Doe 1 and the other Defendants, Defendants’ failure to do so would have the
effect of encouraging, ratifying, condoning, exacerbating, increasing, and
worsening said conduct, acts, and failures to act.  (Complaint ¶73.)
Plaintiff alleges such conduct was performed or ratified by
Defendants and each of them is responsible for a substantial portion of the
violent and tortious conduct.  (Complaint
¶74.)
Plaintiff alleges LAUSD and ALP are vicariously liable for
the Bane Act violations.  (Complaint
¶75.)  Plaintiff alleges that at the time
of their violations of the Bane Act that harmed Plaintiff, Defendants Does 1-5
were employees of ALP and agents of LAUSD, and Does 6-10 were employees of LAUSD,
and acting within the scope of their employment and agency relationships with LAUSD
and ALP.  (Complaint ¶75.)  Plaintiff alleges LAUSD had a nondelegable
duty to protect students like Plaintiff.  (Complaint ¶75.)  Plaintiff alleges The Bane Act violations
arose from their work for LAUSD and ALP, as they occurred in the course of
their ordinary duties supervising Plaintiff at school.  (Complaint ¶75.)  Plaintiff alleges it is reasonably
foreseeable that a BII aide such as Doe 1 would violate the Bane Act by using
violence, threats, intimidation, and coercion when attempting to supervise,
control, discipline, and respond to the behaviors of severely disabled students
and that other personnel would fail to intervene to protect the students.  (Complaint ¶75.)  
Plaintiff alleges LAUSD and ALP ratified the Bane Act
violations.  (Complaint ¶76.)  Plaintiff alleges Does 1 through 10 acted on
behalf of LAUSD and ALP.  (Complaint
¶76.)  Plaintiff alleges LAUSD’s and
ALP’s supervisory officials learned of all the material facts of the violations
after they occurred and subsequently approved of them by retaining Does 1
through 10 and failing to take reasonable measures to stop the misconduct, such
as by investigating and disciplining those responsible, until they finally
started to take action on or about April 17, 2024.  (Complaint ¶76.)  
Plaintiff sufficiently alleges a cause of action for
violation of the Bane Act.  Plaintiff
sufficiently alleges violence by Moving Defendant’s agent to prevent Plaintiff
from exercising recognized state and federal rights.  (Complaint ¶¶7-11, 64-67.) Plaintiff
sufficiently alleges the violence was due to Plaintiff’s membership in one of
the specified classifications set forth in Civil Code section 51.7 or a group
similarly protected by constitution or statute from hate crimes.  (Complaint ¶66.) 
Accordingly, Moving Defendant’s demurrer to Plaintiff’s 3rd
cause of action is overruled.
 
          Violation of the
Ralph Civil Rights Act (4th COA)
“Under the Ralph Act, a
plaintiff must establish the defendant threatened or committed violent acts
against the plaintiff or their property, and a motivating reason for doing so
was a prohibited discriminatory motive, or that [defendant] aided, incited, or
conspired in the denial of a protected right.”  (Gabrielle A., 10 Cal.App.5th at pg. 1291.)
Liability may also be found if a
defendant “aids, incites, or conspires” in the denial of a right protected
under Civil Code §51.7.  (Civ. Code §52(b).)
Plaintiff alleges that, at all
times relevant, the right to be free from any violence or intimidation by
threat of violence committed against his person on account of his disabilities
or medical condition.  (Complaint ¶82.)  Plaintiff alleges Doe 1 committed acts of
violence and/or intimidation by threats of violence against Plaintiff’s person,
including by making forcible physical contact with his body without his consent.
 (Complaint ¶83.)  
Plaintiff alleges a substantial
motivating reason for Doe 1’s conduct was Plaintiff’s intellectual and mental
disabilities and medical condition.  (Complaint ¶84.)  Plaintiff alleges Doe 1 used unlawful
physical force to attempt to control, punish, and manage Plaintiff’s
disability-caused behaviors.  (Complaint
¶84.)  Plaintiff alleges Doe 1 had
hostility towards the disabilities of Plaintiff. (Complaint ¶84.)  
Plaintiff alleges the violence
and intimidation by Doe 1 against Plaintiff on account of his disabilities and
medical conditions were substantial factors causing physical and mental harms to
Plaintiff.  (Complaint ¶85.)  Plaintiff alleges other Defendants acted to
aid, incite, and/or conspire with Doe 1 to deny Plaintiff his right to be free
from any violence or intimidation by threat of violence committed against his
person on account of his disabilities and medical conditions.  (Complaint ¶86.)  
Plaintiff alleges LAUSD and ALP
are vicariously liable for the Ralph Civil Rights Act violations.  (Complaint ¶88.)  Plaintiff alleges that at the time of their
violations of the Ralph Civil Rights Act that harmed Plaintiff, Defendants Does
1-5 were employees of ALP and agents of LAUSD, and Does 6-10 were employees of LAUSD,
acting within the scope of their employment and agency relationships with LAUSD
and ALP.  (Complaint ¶88.)  Plaintiff alleges LAUSD had a nondelegable
duty to protect students like Plaintiff.  (Complaint ¶88.)  Plaintiff alleges The Ralph Civil Rights Act
violations arose from their work for LAUSD and ALP, as they occurred in the
course of their ordinary duties supervising Plaintiff at school.  (Complaint ¶88.)  Plaintiff alleges it is reasonably
foreseeable that a BII aide such as Doe 1 would violate the Ralph Civil Rights
Act by using violence or intimidation when attempting to supervise, control,
discipline and respond to the behaviors of severely disabled students, and that
other personnel would fail to intervene to protect the students.  (Complaint ¶88.)  
Plaintiff alleges The District
and ALP ratified the Ralph Civil Rights Act violations.  (Complaint ¶89.)  Plaintiff alleges Does 1 through 10 acted on
behalf of LAUSD and ALP.  (Complaint
¶89.)  Plaintiff alleges LAUSD’s and
ALP’s supervisory officials learned of all the material facts of the violations
after they occurred, and subsequently approved of them by retaining Does 1
through 10 and failing to take reasonable measures to stop the misconduct, such
as by investigating and disciplining those responsible, until they finally
started to take action on or about April 17.  (Complaint ¶89.)  
Plaintiff sufficiently alleges a
cause of action for violation of the Ralph Act. 
Plaintiff alleges Moving Defendant’s agent committed a violent act
against him.  (Complaint ¶¶83, 86, 88.)  Plaintiff alleges that a substantial
motivating reason for Moving Defendant’s agent’s conduct was his perception of
Plaintiff’s disabilities and medical conditions, and that Doe 1 had hostility
toward Plaintiff’s disabilities. 
(Complaint ¶84.)  Plaintiff
alleges he was harmed and the violence and intimidation by Doe 1 against
Plaintiff on account of his disabilities and medical conditions were
substantial factors in causing Plaintiff’s harms.  (Complaint ¶85.)
Accordingly, Moving Defendant’s
demurrer to Plaintiff’s 4th cause of action is overruled.
 
Battery &
Assault (5th & 6th COAs)
“The essential elements of a cause of action
for battery are: (1) defendant touched plaintiff, or caused plaintiff to be
touched, with the intent to harm or offend plaintiff; (2) plaintiff did not
consent to the touching; (3) plaintiff was harmed or offended by defendant’s
conduct; and (4) a reasonable person in plaintiff’s position would have been
offended by the touching.”  (So v. Shin (2013) 212 Cal.App.4th 652, 669.)
“The essential elements of a cause of action
for assault are: (1) defendant acted with intent to cause harmful or offensive
contact, or threatened to touch plaintiff in a harmful or offensive manner; (2)
plaintiff reasonably believed she was about to be touched in a harmful or
offensive manner or it reasonably appeared to plaintiff that defendant was
about to carry out the threat; (3) plaintiff did not consent to defendant's
conduct; (4) plaintiff was harmed; and (5) defendant’s conduct was a
substantial factor in causing plaintiff's harm.”  (Id. at pgs. 668-669.)
Plaintiff alleges on various dates at least
during the 2023-2024 school year, Doe 1 committed batteries upon Plaintiff.  (Complaint ¶92.)  Plaintiff alleges Doe 1 touched Plaintiff and
caused him to be touched with the intent to harm and offend him.  (Complaint ¶93.)  Plaintiff alleges he never consented to this
touching.  (Complaint ¶94.)  Plaintiff alleges he was harmed and offended
by this unconsented touching in that it caused him physical pain and severe
mental anguish.  (Complaint ¶95.)  Plaintiff alleges a reasonable person in his situation
would have been offended by Doe 1’s touching. 
(Complaint ¶96.)
Plaintiff alleges LAUSD and ALP are
vicariously liable for the batteries.  (Complaint ¶97.)  Plaintiff alleges at the time of the batteries
that harmed Plaintiff, Defendants Does 1-5 were employees of ALP and agents of LAUSD,
and Does 6-10 were employees of LAUSD, acting within the scope of their employment
and agency relationships with LAUSD and ALP.  (Complaint ¶97.)  Plaintiff alleges LAUSD had a nondelegable
duty to protect students like Plaintiff. (Complaint ¶97.)  Plaintiff alleges the batteries arose from
their work for LAUSD and ALP, as they occurred in the course of their ordinary
duties supervising Plaintiff at school.  (Complaint ¶97.)  Plaintiff alleges it is reasonably
foreseeable that a BII aide such ad Doe 1 would engage in battery when attempting
to supervise, control, discipline and respond to the behaviors of severely
disabled students.  (Complaint ¶97.)  
Plaintiff alleges LAUSD and ALP ratified the
batteries.  (Complaint ¶98.)  Plaintiff alleges Doe 1 acted on behalf of
ALP and LAUSD.  (Complaint ¶98.)  Plaintiff alleges LAUSD’s and ALP’s
supervisory officials learned of all the material facts of the batteries after
they occurred, and subsequently approved of them by retaining Doe 1 and failing
to take reasonable measures to stop the misconduct.  (Complaint ¶98.)
Plaintiff alleges on various dates at least
during the 2023-2024 school year Doe 1 committed assaults upon Plaintiff.  (Complaint ¶101.)  Plaintiff alleges Doe 1 acted intending to
cause harmful and offensive contact to Plaintiff.  (Complaint ¶102.)  Plaintiff alleges he reasonably believed that
he was about to be touched in a harmful and offensive manner.  (Complaint ¶103.)  Plaintiff alleges he did not consent to Doe
1’s conduct.  (Complaint ¶104.)  Plaintiff alleges this conduct harmed him in
that it caused him mental harm, including anguish and humiliation.  (Complaint ¶105.)  Plaintiff alleges the conduct was a
substantial factor in causing the mental harm. 
(See Complaint ¶106.)
Plaintiff alleges LAUSD and ALP are vicariously
liable for the assaults.  (Complaint
¶107.)  Plaintiff alleges at the time of
the assaults that harmed Plaintiff, Defendants Does 1-5 were employees of ALP
and agents of LAUSD, and Does 6-10 were employees of LAUSD, acting within the
scope of their employment and agency relationships with the District and ALP.  (Complaint ¶107.)  Plaintiff alleges LAUSD had a nondelegable
duty to protect students like Plaintiff.  (Complaint ¶107.)  Plaintiff alleges the assaults arose from
their work for LAUSD and ALP, as they occurred in the course of their ordinary
duties supervising Plaintiff at school.  (Complaint ¶107.)  Plaintiff alleges it is reasonably
foreseeable that a BII aide such as Doe 1 would engage in assaults when attempting
to supervise, control, discipline and respond to the behaviors of severely
disabled students.  (Complaint
¶107.)  
Plaintiff alleges LAUSD and ALP ratified the
assaults.  (Complaint ¶108.)  Plaintiff alleges Doe 1 acted on behalf of LAUSD
and ALP.  (Complaint ¶108.)  Plaintiff alleges LAUSD’s and ALP’s
supervisory officials learned of all the material facts of the assaults after
they occurred, and subsequently approved of them by retaining Doe 1 and failing
to take reasonable measures to stop the misconduct.  (Complaint ¶108.)
Plaintiff sufficiently alleges causes of
action for battery and assault against Moving Defendant.  Plaintiff sufficiently alleges that Doe 1’s intentional
torts were committed within the scope of his agency relationship with LAUSD.  Plaintiff alleges that Doe 1 was acting within
the scope of his agency relationship with LAUSD when he engaged in the unlawful
acts that harmed Plaintiff.  (Complaint ¶
7.)  More specifically, the Complaint
alleges that Doe 1’s intentional torts “arose from [his] work for the District,”
as “they occurred in the course of [his] ordinary duties supervising Plaintiff
at school.”  (Complaint ¶¶95, 107.)  As alleged in the Complaint, “[i]t is
reasonably foreseeable that a BII aide such as Doe 1 would” engage in batteries
and assaults, “when attempting to supervise, control, discipline, and respond
to the behaviors of severely disabled students.”  (Complaint ¶¶97, 107.)  Because Doe 1’s misconduct was incidental to
his duties as LAUSD’s agent, and reasonably foreseeable in light of LAUSD’s
business of providing education to severely disabled students, his acts were
within the scope of his agency relationship with LAUSD.  (See
Crouch v. Trinity Christian Center of Santa Ana, Inc. (2019) 39 Cal.App.5th 995, 1015 [explaining
that an intentional tort is within scope of an employment relationship if “if
the conduct either (1) is required by or incidental to the employee’s duties,
or (2) it is reasonably foreseeable in light of the employer’s business.”].)
The precedents that Moving Defendant cites
in its demurrer in support of its argument that it is not vicariously liable
for Doe 1’s abuse exclusively involve educators who engaged in sexual misconduct, which is not alleged here. 
(See Demurrer, pg. 9, citing C.A. v. William S. Hart Union High School
District (2012) 53 Cal.4th 861,
865; John R. v. Oakland Unified
School District (1989) 48 Cal.3d
438.)
Accordingly, Moving Defendant’s demurrer to
Plaintiff’s 5th and 6th causes of action is overruled.
 
Conclusion
Moving Defendants’ demurrer to
Plaintiff’s Complaint is overruled as to the 3rd, 4th, 5th, and 6th causes of
action.
Moving Party to give notice.
 
Dated:  December _____, 2024
                                                                             





  