 Case Number:  23STCV08337    Hearing Date:   December 11, 2023    Dept:  49 5110 Washington, LLC, et al. v. Scottsdale Insurance Company, et al.(1) DEMURRER TO COMPLAINT(2) MOTION TO STRIKE  MOVING PARTY: Defendant W. Brown & Associates Property and Casualty Insurance Services RESPONDING PARTY(S): Plaintiffs 5110 Washington, LLC and Harma HartouniSTATEMENT OF MATERIAL FACTS AND/OR PROCEEDINGS: Plaintiff 5110 Washington, LLC, owned and operated an apartment building at 5110-5120 W. Washington Blvd, Los Angeles, CA. Plaintiff Harma Hartouni is the sole member of Plaintiff 5110. Plaintiffs allege they obtained an insurance policy on the property through Defendant Scottsdale Insurance Company. Defendant B&B Premier Insurance Solutions, Inc., and its manager, Defendant David Kern, obtained the policy for Plaintiffs. Plaintiffs allege they informed Defendants that 5110 needed insurance including liability from claims and risks inherent in owning an apartment business renting to tenants. In January 2021, a tenant sued 5110 for bodily injury and property damage, among other things. Despite timely tendering a defense and indemnity under the policy, Defendant Scottsdale denied coverage. Plaintiffs allege they were therefore forced to settle the action. Plaintiffs now bring this action asserting causes of action for (1) breach of liability insurance contract, (2) breach of covenant of good faith and fair dealing, (3) insurance malpractice, (4) breach of fiduciary duty, and (5) negligence.Defendant W. Brown & Associates Property and Casualty Insurance Services now demurrers to the Complaint and moves to strike portions therein.  On November 28, 2023, the parties filed a stipulation agreeing that this court’s November 17, 2023, Ruling on the demurrer by Defendants B&B Premier Insurance Solutions Inc. and David Kern should apply to the instant demurrer. TENTATIVE RULING:Defendant’s Demurrer to the Fourth Cause of Action is SUSTAINED without leave to amend.Defendant’s Motion to Strike punitive damages is GRANTED without leave to amend.Defendant to file an Answer (if needed) within 21 days.Moving party to give notice, unless waived.DISCUSSION:DemurrerI. Meet and Confer The Declaration of Attorney Colleen J. Downes reflects that the meet and confer requirement was met. (CCP § 430.41.)II. Legal StandardA demurrer for sufficiency tests whether the complaint states a cause of action.  (Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147 Cal. App. 4th 740, 747.)  When considering demurrers, courts read the allegations liberally and in context.  (Taylor v. City of Los Angeles Dept. of Water and Power (2006) 144 Cal. App. 4th 1216, 1228.)  In a demurrer proceeding, the defects must be apparent on the face of the pleading or by proper judicial notice.  (CCP § 430.30(a).)  A demurrer tests the pleadings alone and not the evidence or other extrinsic matters.  (SKF Farms v. Superior Court (1984) 153 Cal. App. 3d 902, 905.)  Therefore, it lies only where the defects appear on the face of the pleading or are judicially noticed.  (Id.)  The only issue involved in a demurrer hearing is whether the complaint, as it stands, unconnected with extraneous matters, states a cause of action.  (Hahn, 147 Cal.App.4th at 747.)III. AnalysisDefendant W. Brown Property and Casualty Insurance Services demurrers to the Fourth Cause of Action for Breach of Fiduciary Duty and moves to strike punitive damages from the Complaint.Defendant filed this demurrer and motion to strike on September 15, 2023. Between that date and the date for hearing, this court ruled on a demurrer and motion to strike filed by Defendants B&B Premier Insurance Solutions Inc. and David Kern. The court’s tentative ruling sustained Defendants’ demurrer to the fourth cause of action and granted the motion to strike punitive damages. The court gave Plaintiff 14 days to file and serve an offer of proof on how the fourth cause of action and/or punitive damages claim could be successfully amended. (See 11/17/23 Minute Order.) On November 28, 2023, Plaintiffs filed a notice stating they would not seek to file an amended pleading. (See 11/28/23 Notice.)On November 28, 2023, the moving Defendant and Plaintiffs stipulated that the instant demurrer and motion to strike are “virtually identical” to the ones filed by B&B Premier Insurance Solutions Inc. and David Kern. (See 11/28/2023 Stipulation.) Therefore, the parties agreed that the “Court’s previous Ruling sustaining the demurrer and motion to strike will apply to [the instant demurrer and MTS] as well,” and that the “Court may make and enter an order applying its previous ruling sustaining W. BROWN’ Demurrer without leave to amend the same as it did on November 17, 2023, and granting W. BROWN’s Motion to Strike the same date.” (Id.)Consistent with the parties’ stipulation and this court’s previous order, the court rules as follows:Defendant’s Demurrer to the Fourth Cause of Action is SUSTAINED without leave to amend.Defendant’s Motion to Strike punitive damages is GRANTED without leave to amend.IT IS SO ORDERED.Dated:   December 11, 2023 ___________________________________ Randolph M. Hammock Judge of the Superior Court Any party may submit on the tentative ruling by contacting the courtroom via email at Smcdept49@lacourt.org by no later than 4:00 p.m. the day before the hearing.  All interested parties must be copied on the email.  It should be noted that if you submit on a tentative ruling the court will still conduct a hearing if any party appears. By submitting on the tentative you have, in essence, waived your right to be present at the hearing, and you should be aware that the court may not adopt the tentative, and may issue an order which modifies the tentative ruling in whole or in part.