 Case Number:  23PSCV01581    Hearing Date:   September 26, 2023    Dept:  26  
 
 
 
 
Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
Department 26
 



 
samuel
  castorena,
 
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
 
QUINN COMPANY; KUBOTA CORPORATION;
  KUBOTA NORTH AMERICA CORPORATION; KUBOTA TRACTOR CORPORATION; KUBOTA
  MANUFACTURING OF AMERICA CORPORATION, et al.
                        Defendants.


 
  Case No.:  23PSCV01581
 
  Hearing Date:  September 26, 2023
 
[TENTATIVE] order RE:
Defendant quinn company’s motion to
  strike portions of the complaint
 
 



 
Procedural Background
            On May 25, 2023, Plaintiff Samuel Castorena
(“Plaintiff”) filed the instant products liability action against Defendants
Quinn Company (“Quinn”), Kubota Corporation, Kubota Northa America Corporation,
Kubota Tractor Corporation, and Kubota Manufacturing of America Corporation
(collectively “Defendants”).  The
complaint asserts four causes of action for (1) Strict Products Liability, (2) Negligence,
(3) Breach of Express Warranty of Merchantability, and (4) Breach of Implied
Warranty of Merchantability.  
            On
August 3, 2023, the Court deemed the instant action related to the Lead Action entitled,
Norguard
Insurance Company v. Kubota Tractor Corporation, et al., Los Angeles Superior Court Case No.
23STCV09968.  (Minute Order 8/3/23.)  Accordingly, the instant action was
reassigned to the instant department.
            On
August 21, 2023, Defendant Quinn filed the instant motion to strike portions of
the complaint.  On September 12, 2023,
Plaintiff filed an opposition.  On September
18, 2023, Defendant Quinn filed a reply.
 
Allegations
of the Operative Complaint 
            The complaint alleges that:
            “On May 31, 2021, [Plaintiff] was
driving a KUBOTA RTV utility vehicle (the ‘SUBJECT VEHICLE’), at the QUINN
COMPANY business property located at 10006 Rose Hills Road, City of Industry,
State of California, when the left rear wheel and tire of the SUBJECT VEHICLE
broke off from the axle, causing PLAINTIFF to lose control of the SUBJECT
VEHICLE, which jerked back and forth, nearly flipping over, before PLAINTIFF
was able to bring it to a stop.” 
(Complaint ¶ 13.)  Quinn purchased
the Subject Vehicle from Defendants Kubota Corporation, Kubota Northa America
Corporation, Kubota Tractor Corporation, and Kubota Manufacturing of America
Corporation.  (Id. ¶¶ 7-10,
14.)  
            As a result of this incident,
Plaintiff “sustained various injuries, including injuries and symptoms to his
cervical spine, thoracic spine, lumbar spine, bilateral upper extremities
including shoulders, elbows, wrists, and hands, bilateral lower extremities
(right greater than left), chest, and ribs.” 
(Id. ¶ 15.)  “At all times
herein mentioned, QUINN, KUBOTA, and DOES 1 through 100 were engaged in the
business of designing, developing, repairing, manufacturing, distributing,
fabricating, assembling, testing, engineering, inspecting, leasing, selling,
buying, advertising, marketing, warranting, maintaining, repairing, controlling
and modifying the SUBJECT VEHICLE and other similar utility vehicles. QUINN,
KUBOTA, and DOES 1 through 100 market, distribute, sell, modify and repair
their vehicles, including the SUBJECT VEHICLE, within the County of Los
Angeles, State of California.”  (Id.
¶ 16.)
 
Legal
Standard
Motions to strike are used to reach
defects or objections to pleadings that are not challengeable by demurrer
(i.e., words, phrases, prayer for damages, etc.).  (See
CCP §§ 435-437.)  A party may file a
motion to strike in whole or in part within the time allowed to respond to a
pleading, however, if a party serves and files a motion to strike without
demurring to the complaint, the time to answer is extended.  (CCP §§ 435(b)(1), 435(c).)
A motion to strike lies only where the
pleading has irrelevant, false, or improper matter, or has not been drawn or
filed in conformity with laws.  (CCP §
436.)  The grounds for moving to strike
must appear on the face of the pleadings or by way of judicial notice.  (CCP § 437.)
 
Meet
and Confer Requirement 
Code of Civil Procedure section 435.5,
subdivision (a) requires that “[b]efore filing a motion to strike pursuant
to this chapter, the moving party shall meet and confer¿in person or by
telephone¿with the party who filed the pleading that is subject to the motion
to strike for the purpose of determining whether an agreement can be reached
that would resolve the objections to be raised in the motion to strike.” The
parties are to meet and confer at least five days before the date the
responsive pleading is due and if they are unable to meet the demurring party
shall be granted an automatic 30-day extension.  (Code Civ. Proc., §
435.5(a)(2).)  The moving party must also file and serve a declaration
detailing the meet and confer efforts.  (Id.¿at (a)(3).)¿ If an amended pleading is filed, the parties must
meet and confer again before a motion to strike may be filed to the amended
pleading.  (Id.¿at (a).)  
Here, Defendant Quinn has sufficiently met
and conferred.  (Kwong Decl. ¶ 4, Exh. A.)
 
Discussion
            Defendant Quinn moves to strike the
prayer for punitive damages and allegations regarding punitive damages.  Specifically, Quinn seeks to strike the words
“wantonly” and “recklessly” in paragraph 11, paragraph 29, the term “conscious
disregard” in paragraphs 33 and 34, and the paragraph 5 of the prayer for
relief seeking punitive damages.
California Civil Code section 3294
authorizes the recovery of punitive damages in non-contract cases where “the
defendant has been guilty of oppression, fraud, or malice . . . .” (Civ. Code,
§ 3294(a).) “‘Malice’ means conduct which is intended by the defendant to cause
injury to the plaintiff or despicable conduct which is carried on by the
defendant with a willful and conscious disregard of the rights or safety of
others.” (Id. at (c)(1).)
“‘Oppression’ means despicable conduct that subjects a person to cruel and
unjust hardship in conscious disregard of that person’s rights.” (Id. at (c)(2).) “‘Fraud’ means an
intentional misrepresentation, deceit, or concealment of a material fact known
to the defendant with the intention on the part of the defendant of thereby
depriving a person of property or legal rights or otherwise causing injury.” (Id. at (c)(3).) Punitive damages thus
require more than the mere commission of a tort. (See Taylor v. Superior Court (1979) 24 Cal.3d 890, 894-895.) 
A demand for
punitive damages for the commission of any tort requires more than the mere
conclusory allegations of “oppression, fraud, and malice.”  (Civ. Code § 3294; see Perkins v. Superior
Court (1981) 117 Cal. App.3d 1, 6-7.) 
Rather, “[t]here must be circumstances of aggravation or outrage, such
as spite or malice, or a fraudulent or evil motive on the part of Defendant, or
such a conscious and deliberate disregard of the interest of others that its
conduct may be called willful or wanton.” (Taylor, supra, 24 Cal.3d at
pp.894-895.)
Here, the conduct
alleged is insufficient to support a prayer for punitive damages.  The complaint alleges merely that the conduct
by Defendant Quinn “constitutes oppression, fraud, and malice, and a conscious
disregard of the rights and safety of others, such that PLAINTIFF is entitled
to punitive damages.”  (Complaint ¶
29.)  
As to fraud, there
is no allegation that Defendant Quinn made any misrepresentation or that
Defendant Quinn concealed any known material fact.  (Civ. Code, § 3294(c)(3).)  Nor is there any specificity as required to
state a claim of fraud as “[f]raud allegations ‘involve a serious attack on character’ and
therefore are pleaded with specificity. 
[Citation.]  General and
conclusory allegations are insufficient. 
[Citation.]  The particularity
requirement demands that a plaintiff plead facts which ‘‘‘show how, when,
where, to whom, and by what means the representations were tendered.’’’  [Citation.]” 
(Cansino v. Bank of America (2014) 224 Cal.App.4th 1462, 1469.)
As to oppression,
no despicable conduct warranting punitive damages has been alleged.  (Civ. Code, § 3294(c)(2).)  The only specific conduct alleged as to
Defendant Quinn is that Quinn purchased the Subject Vehicle, and Quinn inspected,
maintained, repaired, and distributed the Subject Vehicle.  (Complaint ¶¶ 6, 14.)  This conduct is clearly not despicable
conduct such as to constitute oppression for punitive damages.  (Lackner v. North (2006) 135
Cal.App.4th 1188, 1210 [“The adjective ‘despicable’ connotes conduct that is ‘“...
so vile, base, contemptible, miserable, wretched or loathsome that it would be
looked down upon and despised by ordinary decent people.”’”].)  
Finally, as to
malice, Plaintiff does not allege Quinn intentionally sought to harm
Plaintiff.  (Civ. Code, § 3294(c)(1).)  Rather, the claim is based on
negligence.   “[R]ecklessness alone is insufficient to
sustain an award of punitive damages because “ ‘[t]he central spirit of the
exemplary damage statute, the demand for evil motive, is violated by an award
founded upon recklessness alone.’ ” [Citation.]”  
 
 
A conscious
disregard of the safety of others may constitute malice within the meaning of
section 3294 of the Civil Code.  (Taylor,
supra, 24 Cal.3d at p.895.)  “In
order to justify an award of punitive damages on this basis, the plaintiff must
establish that the defendant was aware of the probable dangerous consequences
of his conduct, and that he willfully and deliberately failed to avoid those
consequences.”  (Ibid.)
            Here, Plaintiff claims that
the facts support malice because Defendant Quinn knew of the unsafe condition
of the Subject Vehicle.  However, this is
not clearly alleged in the Complaint. 
The complaint
alleges in relevant part that “Plaintiff is informed and believes and thereon
alleges that said DEFENDANTS and each of them knew or, in the exercise of
reasonable care, should have known, of the dangerous, defective, unfit, and
unsafe condition of the aforementioned SUBJECT VEHICLE and the fact that it was
not safe or suitable for its intended use nor of merchantable, safe, or
operational quality.”  (Complaint ¶¶ 45,
49.)  This allegation is insufficient as
it is made on information and belief and fails to provide any factual basis to
support this belief.  (See Doe v.
City of Los Angeles (2007) 42 Cal.4th 531, 550; [A “[p]laintiff may allege
on information and belief any matters that are not within his personal
knowledge, if he has information leading him to believe that the allegations
are true.”].)  Moreover, mere
conclusions of malice, oppression, or fraud are insufficient as facts must be
alleged to support a prayer for punitive damages.  (Smith v. Superior Court (1992) 10
Cal.App.4th 1033, 1041-1042.)
Accordingly, as no facts have been alleged to
support the prayer for punitive damages, Defendant Quinn’s motion to strike is
GRANTED.
 
Leave to Amend
Leave to amend
must be allowed where there is a reasonable possibility of successful
amendment. (Goodman v. Kennedy (1976) 18 Cal.3d 335, 348.) The burden is
on the plaintiff to show the court that a pleading can be amended successfully.
(Goodman v. Kennedy, supra, 18 Cal.3d at p.348; Lewis v. YouTube, LLC
(2015) 244 Cal.App.4th 118, 226.)  
At this juncture, there
is no reason to presume that Plaintiff cannot successfully amend the complaint.  This is the first time that a demurrer has
been sustained against the complaint. 
Accordingly, the court finds it is proper to allow Plaintiffs an
opportunity to cure the defects discussed in this order. (See Goodman v.
Kennedy (1976) 18 Cal.3d 335, 349; Kong v. City of Hawaiian Gardens
Redevelopment Agency (2002) 108 Cal.App.4th 1028, 1037.)   
 
Conclusion and ORDER
            Based on the foregoing, Defendant Quinn Company’s motion to strike
the prayer for punitive damages and surrounding allegations in the complaint is
GRANTED.
            Plaintiff
is to file an amended complaint within fifteen (15) days of notice of this
order.
            All
parties are ordered to appear for a case management conference and OSC re proof
of service of the First Amended Complaint on November 21, 2023 at 8:30 am.
Moving Party is to provide notice of
this order and file proof of service of such.
 
DATED: September ___,
2023                                              ___________________________
                                                                                          Elaine
Lu
                                                                                          Judge
of the Superior Court