 Case Number:  21STCV40546    Hearing Date:   December 7, 2023    Dept:  34 SUBJECT:        Motion to
Compel the Deposition of [Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant] and for Sanctions
 
Moving Party: Defendant
Sound Nutrition, Inc. 
Resp. Party:    Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant Creative Resonance,
Inc.
 
The Motion to Compel Deposition is GRANTED in part. Both
Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant and Defendant/Cross-Complainant Don Dillon shall make
themselves available for deposition within thirty (30) days of the issuance of
this Order.
 
        Defendant Sound Nutrition, Inc.’s
Request for Sanctions is DENIED.
 
 
PRELIMINARY NOTE:
 
        The Court orders all Counsel to read and
comply with Department 34’s rules.  The
Court also advises Counsel that the Court takes CRC 3.1332(a) seriously. 
 
 
BACKGROUND:
 
On November
3, 2021, Plaintiff Creative Resonance, Inc. filed its Complaint against
Defendants Sound Nutrition, Inc., Sound (ABC), LLC, Don Dillon, and Wilson
Sonsini Goodrich & Rosati on causes of action arising from the Parties’
business relationship and transactions. 
 
On November
29, 2021, Plaintiff filed its First Amended Complaint (FAC). The FAC added new
allegations, parties, and causes of action. 
 
On May 27,
2022, Plaintiff filed its Second Amended Complaint (SAC). 
 
On January
13, 2023, Plaintiff filed its Third Amended Complaint (TAC). 
 
On February 15,
2023, Defendant Sound (ABC), LLC filed its Answer to the TAC. 
 
On February
15, 2023, Defendants Sound Nutrition, Inc. and Don Dillon filed their Answer to
the TAC. 
 
On August 25,
2023, Plaintiff amended its pleading by substituting Doe 1 with Armanino, LLP
(in the eighth and eleventh causes of action) and Doe 2 with Treadstone Capital
Trust (in the eighth, ninth, and eleventh causes of action). 
 
On October 4,
2023, by request of Plaintiff and after the Court made a determination of good
faith settlement, the Clerk’s Office dismissed with prejudice Defendants Wilson
Sonsini Goodrich & Rosati, Robert Kornegay, and Zachary Myers. 
 
On October 9,
2023, Defendants/Cross-Complainants Treadstone Capital Trust and Don Dillon
filed their Cross-Complaint against Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant Creative
Resonance, Inc. 
 
On November
3, 2023, Defendant Sound Nutrition, Inc. filed its Motion to Compel Deposition
of [Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant] and for Sanctions (“Motion to Compel
Deposition”). In support of its Motion to Compel Deposition, Defendant Sound
Nutrition, Inc. concurrently filed its Proposed Order. 
 
On November
13, 2023, Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant filed its Answer to the Cross-Complaint. 
 
On November
17, 2023, Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant filed its Opposition to the Motion to
Compel Deposition. In support of its Opposition, Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant
concurrently filed: (1) Declaration of Scott Greene; and (2) Proof of Service. 
 
On November
27, 2023, Defendant Sound Nutrition, Inc. filed its Reply regarding the Motion
to Compel Deposition. 
 
 
ANALYSIS:
 
I.         
Legal
Standard
 
“If, after service of a deposition
notice, a party to the action or an officer, director, managing agent, or employee
of a party, or a person designated by an organization that is a party under
Section 2025.230, without having served a valid objection under Section
2025.410, fails to appear for examination, or to proceed with it, or to produce
for inspection any document, electronically stored information, or tangible
thing described in the deposition notice, the party giving the notice may move
for an order compelling the deponent’s attendance and testimony, and the
production for inspection of any document, electronically stored information,
or tangible thing described in the deposition notice.” (Code Civ. Proc., §
2025.450, subd. (a).)
 
“If a motion under subdivision (a)
is granted, the court shall impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7
(commencing with Section 2023.010) in favor of the party who noticed the
deposition and against the deponent or the party with whom the deponent is
affiliated, unless the court finds that the one subject to the sanction acted
with substantial justification or that other circumstances make the imposition
of the sanction unjust.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.450, subd. (g).)
 
II.      
Discussion
 
A.      The Parties’ Arguments
 
Defendant Sound Nutrition, Inc. moves the Court to: (1) compel
Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant’s deposition, on all topics for examination in the
notice, within ten days of the Court’s order; (2) order the evidentiary
sanction of Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant’s deposition occurring prior to
Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant taking the deposition of Defendant/Cross-Complainant
Don Dillon; and (3) order monetary sanctions in favor of Defendant Sound
Nutrition, Inc. and against Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant. (Motion to Compel
Deposition, pp. 6:9, 7:1–2, 10:2–14.)
 
        Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant opposes the
Motion to Compel Deposition, arguing: (1) that Defendant Sound Nutrition, Inc.
does not provide support for its demand for deposition priority; (2) that
Defendant Sound Nutrition, Inc. does not provide a rationale for why
Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant’s deposition must occur within ten days of the
Court’s order; and (3) that Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant’s prior objections to the
deposition noticed for July 3, 2023 were proper and acknowledged by former
counsel for Defendant Sound Nutrition, Inc. (Opposition, pp. 5:18, 6:22–23,
7:6–7.)
 
        Defendant Sound Nutrition, Inc.
reiterates its arguments in its Reply. 
 
B.      The Deposition
 
The issues at hand boil down to four details:
 
(1)      
On May
17, 2023, Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant issued a deposition notice for
Defendant/Cross-Complainant Don Dillon, the deposition to occur on June 21,
2023. (Decl. Greene, Exh. C.)
 
(2)      
The
deposition of Defendant/Cross-Complainant Don Dillon did not occur on that
date, and there is no evidence before the Court that indicates that deposition
has since occurred. (Opposition, pp. 3:18–20, 4:11–19.)
 
(3)      
On July
3, 2023, Defendant Sound Nutrition, Inc. and Defendant/Cross-Complainant Don
Dillon issued a deposition for Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant, the deposition to
occur on July 27, 2023. (Motion to Compel Deposition, Exh. 1.)
 
(4)      
The
deposition of Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant did not occur on that date, and there
is no evidence before the Court that indicates that deposition has since
occurred. (Motion to Compel Deposition, Decl. King, ¶¶ 3, 5, 7; Reply, p.
9:2–4.)
 
Despite many pages of excuses by both sides, the Court has not been
presented with a sufficient reason why neither of these depositions has occurred.
Nor has the Court been presented with a sufficient reason why one deposition
should occur before or after the other. 
 
The Court GRANTS in part the Motion to Compel Deposition. Both
Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant and Defendant/Cross-Complainant Don Dillon shall make
themselves available for deposition within thirty (30) days of the issuance of
this Order.
 
C.      Sanctions
 
Defendant Sound Nutrition, Inc. has partially prevailed on its motion.
But given the circumstances and its involvement in the delay of
Defendant/Cross-Complainant Don Dillon’s deposition, sanctions are
inappropriate here. 
 
        The Court DENIES Defendant Sound
Nutrition, Inc.’s Request for Sanctions. 
 
III.     Conclusion
 
The Motion to Compel Deposition is GRANTED in part. Both
Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant and Defendant/Cross-Complainant Don Dillon shall make
themselves available for deposition within thirty (30) days of the issuance of
this Order.
 
        Defendant Sound Nutrition, Inc.’s Request
for Sanctions is DENIED.
 