 Case Number:  22STCV10347    Hearing Date:   December 7, 2023    Dept:  34 SUBJECT:        Motion for
Leave to File Third Amended Cross-Complaint
 
Moving Party: Defendants/Cross-Complainants
Gloria Shulman Hughes and John E. Hughes, Jr.
Resp. Party:    Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant Living The Dream and
Cross-Defendant Shalom Shay Gozlan
 
 
The Amended Motion is GRANTED.
Defendants/Cross-Complainants are granted seven (7) days leave to file their
proposed TACC.
 
BACKGROUND:
        
On Plaintiff Living The Dream filed its Complaint against Defendants
Gloria Shulman Hughes and John E. Hughes, Jr. on causes of action of
declaratory relief and breach of the covenant of good faith and fair dealing. 
 
On June 13, 2022, Plaintiff filed its First Amended Complaint (FAC),
which added allegations and causes of action. 
 
On September 21, 2022, Defendants/Cross-Complainants Gloria Shulman
Hughes and John E. Hughes, Jr. filed: (1) Answer to the FAC; and (2)
Cross-Complaint against Cross-Defendants Living The Dream and California
Numbered Company 4009746. 
 
On October 10, 2022, Defendants/Cross-Complainants filed their First
Amended Cross-Complaint (FACC), which added allegations and Cross-Defendants
Applied Plant Science and Shalom Shay Gozlan.
 
On March 16, 2023, Defendants/Cross-Complainants filed their Second
Amended Cross-Complaint (SACC). 
 
On April 17, 2023, Cross-Defendant Applied Plant Science filed its
Answer to the SACC. 
 
On May 10, 2023, Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant Living The Dream and
Cross-Defendant Shalom Shay Gozlan filed their Answer to the SACC. 
 
On October 31, 2023, Defendants/Cross-Complainants filed their Motion
for Leave to File Third Amended Cross-Complaint.
 
On November 8, 2023, Defendants/Cross-Complainants filed their amended
Motion for Leave to File Third Amended Cross-Complaint (“Amended Motion”). 
 
On November 22, 2023, Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant Living The Dream and
Cross-Defendant Shalom Shay Gozlan filed their Opposition to the Amended
Motion. 
 
On November 30, 2023, Defendants/Cross-Complainants filed their Reply
regarding the Amended Motion. 
 
ANALYSIS:
 
I.               
Legal Standard
 
“The court may, in furtherance of justice, and
on any terms as may be proper, allow a party to amend any pleading or
proceeding by adding or striking out the name of any party, or by correcting a
mistake in the name of a party, or a mistake in any other respect; and may,
upon like terms, enlarge the time for answer or demurrer. The court may
likewise, in its discretion, after notice to the adverse party, allow, upon any
terms as may be just, an amendment to any pleading or proceeding in other
particulars; and may upon like terms allow an answer to be made after the time
limited by this code.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 473, subd. (a)(1).)
 
        “Any judge, at any time before or
after commencement of trial, in the furtherance of justice, and upon such terms
as may be proper, may allow the amendment of any pleading or pretrial
conference order.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 576.)
 
“A motion to amend a pleading before trial
must: (1) Include a copy of the proposed amendment or amended pleading, which
must be serially numbered to differentiate it from previous pleadings or
amendments; (2) State what allegations in the previous pleading are proposed to
be deleted, if any, and where, by page, paragraph, and line number, the deleted
allegations are located; and (3) State what allegations are proposed to be
added to the previous pleading, if any, and where, by page, paragraph, and line
number, the additional allegations are located.” (Cal. Rules of Court, rule
3.1324(a).)
 
“A separate declaration must accompany the
motion and must specify: (1) The effect of the amendment; (2) Why the amendment
is necessary and proper; (3) When the facts giving rise to the amended
allegations were discovered; and (4) The reason why the request for amendment
was not made earlier.” (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1324(b).)
 
“This discretion should be exercised liberally
in favor of amendments, for judicial policy favors resolution of all disputed
matters in the same lawsuit.” (Kittredge Sports Co. v. Super. Ct. (1989)
213 Cal.App.3d 1045, 1047.) 
 
Leave to amend is thus liberally granted,
provided there is no statute of limitations concern. (Kolani v. Gluska (1998) 64 Cal.App.4th 402, 411.) The Court
may deny the plaintiff’s leave to amend if there is prejudice to the opposing
party, such as delay in trial, loss of critical evidence, or added costs of
preparation. (Id.)
 
II.      
Discussion
 
A.      The Parties’ Arguments
 
Defendants/Cross-Complainants move the
Court for leave to file their proposed Third Amended Cross-Complaint (TACC).
(Amended Motion, p. 15:11–12.)
 
They argue: (1) that there are relevant
facts relating to the existing causes of action and that state additional
grounds for relief; (2) that requests for leave to amend are liberally treated
to avoid forfeiture of claims; (3) that leave to amend should be granted where
the new legal theories arise from the same basic facts; (4) that leave to amend
should be granted to add new parties; and (5) that Cross-Defendants will not be
prejudiced. (Amended Motion, pp. 5:5–6, 9:2–3, 11:1–2, 12:4, 14:3.)
 
        Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant
Living The Dream and Cross-Defendant Shalom Shay Gozlan oppose the Amended
Motion, arguing: (1) that there is no excuse for Defendants/Cross-Complainants’
delay in seeking leave to amend; (2) that Cross-Defendants will suffer
prejudice if leave to amend is granted; and (3) that Cross-Defendants reserve
their right to challenge the TACC should leave to amend be permitted. (Opposition,
pp. 4:11, 6:9, 7:1–2.)
 
        In their Reply,
Defendants/Cross-Complainants argue: (1) that the proposed amendments were
timely raised; (2) that the Declaration of Robert D. Goldberg explains why the
proposed amendments were not made sooner; and (3) that Cross-Defendants will
not be prejudiced by the proposed TACC. (Reply, pp. 1:2, 2:19–20, 6:22–23.)
 
B.      California
Rules of Court, Rule 3.1324
 
Defendants/Cross-Complainants
complied with California Rules of Court, rule 3.1324:
 
·       They submitted a copy of the proposed amended
pleading. (Amended Motion, Exh. 1.)
 
·      
They
provided the Court with information on exactly where all the proposed additions
and deletions would be, including in their Amended Motion and with a red-lined
version of the proposed amended pleading. (Amended Motion, pp. i–v and Exh. 2.)
 
·      
Their
counsel declares: (1) that the effects of the proposed amendments are to delete
certain earlier allegations, add new allegations that have since occurred, add
parties that should now be added, and add causes of action; (2) that the
proposed amendments are necessary and proper to allow adjudication on the
merits of all liability and damages allegedly caused by Cross-Defendants in
this matter; (3) that most of the new facts alleged in the proposed TACC are
based on events that took place on and after June 2, 2023, when
Defendants/Cross-Complainants were permitted to inspect the property at issue;
and (4) that most of the proposed amendments were not made earlier because the
information had not been discovered until Defendants/Cross-Complainants retook
possession of the property at issue. (Motion, Decl. Goldberg, ¶¶ 5–9.)
 
C.      Delay
and Prejudice
 
Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant Living The Dream and Cross-Defendant Shalom
Shay Gozlan argue
that there has been inexcusable delay and that they will suffer prejudice if
leave is granted. 
 
The Court disagrees with these arguments.

 
First, there does not appear to be
inexcusable delay here. As Defendants/Cross-Complainants regained access to the
property within the past few months, it is reasonable that a variety of new
allegations, causes of action, and parties could be added based on what was
found. 
 
Second, the risk of prejudice to the
existing cross-defendants appears to be minimal. This is because the new
allegations and causes of action do appear to have some relationship to the
existing allegations and causes of action. 
 
The risk of prejudice to the proposed
cross-defendants is somewhat higher because they are not currently a part of
the litigation and trial is approximately three months away. However, with
diligence, the proposed cross-defendants should be able to catch up and
establish an adequate defense for themselves. 
 
In contrast, the risk of prejudice to
Defendants/Cross-Complainants of not having leave to amend is very high. This
is because certain causes of action against existing parties appear to be
compulsory causes of action. Thus, it would be inappropriate for the Court to
deny them leave at this time. 
 
III.    
Conclusion

 
The Amended Motion is GRANTED.
Defendants/Cross-Complainants are granted seven (7) days leave to file their
proposed TACC.
 