 Case Number:  23STCV11217    Hearing Date:   December 7, 2023    Dept:  34 SUBJECT:        Motion to Strike Portions of Plaintiffs’
First Amended Complaint
 
Moving Party: Defendants
DaVita Inc. and Total Renal Care
Resp. Party:    Plaintiffs Andrea Faye Washington and Ezekiel
Oliver Taylor
 
SUBJECT:        Demurrer to Plaintiffs’ First Amended
Complaint
 
Moving Party: Defendants
DaVita Inc. and Total Renal Care
Resp. Party:    Plaintiffs Andrea Faye Washington and Ezekiel
Oliver Taylor
                                    
        
The Demurrer is OVERRULED.
 
The Motion to Strike is DENIED. 
 
BACKGROUND:
 
On May 17, 2023, Plaintiffs Andrea Faye
Washington and Ezekiel Oliver Taylor filed their Complaint against Defendants
DaVita Inc. and P & I Transportation LLC on causes of action arising from
the death of a decedent. 
 
On June 1, 2023, the Court approved
Plaintiffs’ amendment to correct the name of Defendant P & I
Transportation, Inc. (erroneously sued as P & I Transportation LLC). 
 
On June 2, 2023, Plaintiffs amended their
pleading to substitute Doe 1 with P & I Transportation, Inc. 
 
On June 13, 2023, Plaintiffs amended their
pleading to substitute Doe 2 with Total Renal Care, Inc. 
 
On August 25, 2023, Plaintiff filed their
First Amended Complaint (FAC), which added new allegations, parties, and causes
of action. 
 
On September 26, 2023, Defendant P & I
Transportation, Inc. filed its Answer to the FAC. 
 
On September 26, 2023, Defendants DaVita,
Inc. and Total Renal Care, Inc. filed their Motion to Strike Portions of
Plaintiffs’ FAC. In support of their Motion to Strike, they concurrently filed:
(1) Declaration of Elaine A. Sun; and (2) Proposed Order. 
 
On October 5, 2023, Defendants DaVita, Inc.
and Total Renal Care, Inc. filed their Demurrer to the FAC. In support of their
Demurrer, they concurrently filed: (1) Declaration of Elaine A. Sun; and (2)
Proposed Order. 
 
On October 24, 2023, Plaintiffs filed their
Consolidated Opposition to the Demurrer and the Motion to Strike. 
 
On October 30, 2023, Defendants DaVita, Inc.
and Total Renal Care, Inc. filed their Replies regarding the Demurrer and the
Motion to Strike. 
 
 

ANALYSIS:
 
I.         
Demurrer
 
A.      Legal Standard
 
A demurrer is
a pleading used to test the legal sufficiency of other pleadings. It raises
issues of law, not fact, regarding the form or content of the opposing party’s
pleading. It is not the function of the demurrer to challenge the truthfulness
of the complaint; and for purpose of the ruling on the demurrer, all facts
pleaded in the complaint are assumed to be true, however improbable they may
be. (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 422.10, 589.)¿
¿¿¿
A demurrer
can be used only to challenge defects that appear on the face of the pleading
under attack; or from matters outside the pleading that are judicially
noticeable. (Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311.) No other extrinsic
evidence can be considered (i.e., no “speaking demurrers”). A demurrer is
brought under Code of Civil Procedure section 430.10 (grounds), section 430.30
(as to any matter on its face or from which judicial notice may be taken), and
section 430.50(a) (can be taken to the entire complaint or any cause of action
within).¿¿
¿¿¿¿
A demurrer
may be brought under Code of Civil Procedure section 430.10, subdivision (e) if
insufficient facts are stated to support the cause of action asserted. A
demurrer for uncertainty (Code of Civil Procedure section 430.10, subdivision
(f)), is disfavored and will only be sustained where the pleading is so bad
that defendant cannot reasonably respond—i.e., cannot reasonably determine what
issues must be admitted or denied, or what counts or claims are directed
against him/her. (Khoury v. Maly's of Cal., Inc. (1993) 14 Cal.App.4th
612, 616.) Moreover, even if the pleading is somewhat vague, “ambiguities can
be clarified under modern discovery procedures.” (Id.)¿¿¿
 
B.      Discussion
 
Defendants DaVita, Inc. and Total Renal Care, Inc. demur to the first,
fourth, sixth, and seventh causes of action in the FAC. 
 
1.      First Cause of Action – Gross Negligence 
 
a.  
    Legal
Standard
 
“Gross negligence is
pleaded by alleging the traditional elements of negligence: duty, breach,
causation, and damages. However, to set forth a claim for ‘gross
negligence’ the plaintiff must allege extreme conduct on the part of the
defendant. The conduct alleged must rise to the level of
either a want of even scant care or an extreme departure from the ordinary
standard of conduct.” (Rosencrans v. Dover Images, Ltd. (2011) 192
Cal.App.4th 1072, 1082, cleaned up.)
 
It
is established that “California does not recognize a distinct common law cause
of action for gross negligence apart from negligence.” (Jimenez v. 24 Hour
Fitness USA, Inc. (2015) 237 Cal.App.4th 546, 552, fn. 3.)
 
b.       Discussion
 
Defendants DaVita, Inc. and Total Renal Care, Inc. demur to the first
cause of action for gross negligence, arguing: (1) that this is not a legally
cognizable cause of action; (2) that these allegations are redundant of the
second cause of action (medical negligence) and the fourth cause of action
(elder abuse and neglect); and (3) that the allegations do not indicate that
there has been a want of even scant care or an extreme departure from the
ordinary standard of care. (Demurrer, pp. 11:26–27, 12:1–13.)
 
Plaintiffs allege: (1) that Defendants had a duty of care for Decedent;
(2) that Defendants breached that duty of care in their various actions, such
as refusing to give Decedent (their patient) dialysis care and sending Decedent
back home when he was unwell instead of administering treatment or sending him
to an emergency room; (3) that Defendants’ actions caused Decedent harm and
ultimately led to his untimely death; and (4) that Decedent suffered damages
and ultimately death. (FAC, ¶¶ 25–43.)
 
The allegations are sufficient for a trier of fact to find that the
conduct alleged rises to the level of an extreme departure from the ordinary
standard of conduct. 
 
In addition, gross negligence is a legally cognizable cause of action,
and it is irrelevant for the purposes of a demurrer that they are redundant of
other causes of action. (Rosencrans, supra, 192 Cal.App.4th
at p. 1082; Code Civ. Proc., § 475 [“The court must, in every stage of an action, disregard any error,
improper ruling, instruction, or defect, in the pleadings or proceedings which,
in the opinion of said court, does not affect the substantial rights of the
parties. . . .”].) 
 
        The Court OVERRULES the Demurrer to the
first cause of action for gross negligence. 
 
2.      Fourth Cause of Action – Elder Abuse and
Neglect
 
a.  
    Legal
Standard
 
“‘Elder’ means any person residing
in this state, 65 years of age or older.” (Welf.
& Inst. Code, § 15610.27.)

 
“‘Abuse of an elder
or a dependent adult’ means any of the following:
 
(1)       “Physical abuse, neglect, abandonment, isolation,
abduction, or other treatment with resulting physical harm or pain or mental
suffering.
 
(2)       “The deprivation by a care custodian of goods or
services that are necessary to avoid physical harm or mental suffering.
 
(3)       “Financial abuse, as defined in Section 15610.30.”
 
(Welf. & Inst.
Code, § 15610.07, subd. (a).)
 
“‘Goods and
services necessary to avoid physical harm or mental suffering’ include, but are
not limited to, all of the following:
 
(a)      
“The provision of medical care for physical
and mental health needs.
 
(b)      
“Assistance in personal hygiene.
 
(c)       
“Adequate clothing.
 
(d)      
“Adequately heated and ventilated shelter.
 
(e)      
“Protection from health and safety hazards.
 
(f)        
“Protection from malnutrition, under those
circumstances where the results include, but are not limited to, malnutrition
and deprivation of necessities or physical punishment.
 
(g)      
“Transportation and assistance necessary to
secure any of the needs set forth in subdivisions (a) to (f), inclusive.”
 
(Welf. & Inst.
Code, § 15610.35.)
 
“‘Neglect’
means either of the following:
 
(1)      
“The negligent failure of any person having
the care or custody of an elder or a dependent adult to exercise that degree of
care that a reasonable person in a like position would exercise.
 
(2)      
“The negligent failure of an elder or
dependent adult to exercise that degree of self care that a reasonable person
in a like position would exercise.”
 
(Welf. & Inst.
Code, § 15610.57, subd. (a).)
 
“Neglect
includes, but is not limited to, all of the following:
 
(1)      
“Failure to assist in personal hygiene, or in
the provision of food, clothing, or shelter.
 
(2)      
“Failure to provide medical care for physical
and mental health needs. A person shall not be deemed neglected or abused for
the sole reason that the person voluntarily relies on treatment by spiritual
means through prayer alone in lieu of medical treatment.
 
(3)      
“Failure to protect from health and safety
hazards.
 
(4)      
“Failure to prevent malnutrition or
dehydration.
 
(5)      
“Substantial inability or failure of an elder
or dependent adult to manage their own finances.
 
(6)      
“Failure of an elder or dependent adult to
satisfy any of the needs specified in paragraphs (1) to (5), inclusive, for
themselves as a result of poor cognitive functioning, mental limitation,
substance abuse, or chronic poor health.”
 
(Welf. & Inst.
Code, § 15610.57, subd. (b).)
 
“Where it is
proven by clear and convincing evidence that a defendant is liable for physical
abuse as defined in Section 15610.63, neglect as defined in Section 15610.57,
or abandonment as defined in Section 15610.05, and that the defendant has been
guilty of recklessness, oppression, fraud, or malice in the commission of this
abuse, the following shall apply, in addition to all other remedies otherwise
provided by law: (a) The court shall award to the plaintiff reasonable
attorney’s fees and costs. The term ‘costs’ includes, but is not limited to,
reasonable fees for the services of a conservator, if any, devoted to the
litigation of a claim brought under this article.” (Welf. & Inst. Code, §
15657, subd. (a).)
 
b.  
    Discussion
 
Defendants DaVita, Inc. and Total Renal Care, Inc. demur to the fourth
cause of action for elder abuse and neglect, arguing: (1) that Plaintiffs have
not pleaded facts with the requisite particularity required to bring this cause
of action for elder abuse or neglect; (2) that Plaintiffs have not alleged
facts showing corporate authorization, ratification, or involvement by an
officer, director, or managing agent; and (3) that Plaintiffs have not alleged
facts showing a caretaking or custodial relationship between these defendants
and Decedent. (Demurrer, pp. 13:16–21, 13:22–23, 16:4, 18:1–2, 18:14–15.)
 
The Court disagrees with these arguments. 
 
First, the allegations previously discussed for gross negligence –such
as not providing dialysis treatment to the elderly Decedent, not providing the
elderly Decedent other medical care when he needed it, sending the elderly Decedent
back home without providing him dialysis treatment and/or other medical care,
etc. – are also sufficient for a trier of fact to find that there has been
elder abuse and/or neglect. The statute does not limit elder abuse to issues of
hygiene; it also includes other acts or omissions, such as failure to prevent
dehydration and failure to provide medical care.
 
Second, the pleading sufficiently alleges that Defendants DaVita, Inc.
and Total Renal Care, Inc. had a caretaker or custodial relationship for
Decedent at the times that the alleged abuse and/or neglect occurred. 
 
Third, Plaintiffs explicitly alleged that the acting defendants were
the agents and/or employees of the remaining defendants, and that the acting
defendants acted within the purpose and scope of their agency and employment.
(FAC, ¶ 10.)
 
        The Court OVERRULES the Demurrer to the
fourth cause of action for elder abuse and neglect. 
 
3.         
Sixth
Cause of Action – Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress
 
a.  
    Legal
Standard
 
“The elements of a prima facie case for the
tort of intentional infliction of emotional distress are: (1) extreme and
outrageous conduct by the defendant with the intention of causing, or reckless
disregard of the probability of causing, emotional distress; (2) the
plaintiff’s suffering severe or extreme emotional distress; and (3) actual and
proximate causation of the emotional distress by the defendant’s outrageous
conduct. Conduct to be outrageous must be so extreme as to exceed all bounds of
that usually tolerated in a civilized community.” (Wilson v. Hynek
(2012) 207 Cal.App.4th 999, 1009, citation and ellipses omitted.)
 
b.  
    Discussion
 
Defendants DaVita, Inc. and Total Renal Care, Inc. demur to the sixth
cause of action for intentional infliction of emotional distress, arguing that
Plaintiffs did not plead the elements for this cause of action. (Demurrer, p.
20:6–13.)
 
The Court disagrees. 
 
A trier of fact could reasonably find that the allegations of the
complaint – which include wrongfully denying care to a dialysis patient who
arrived at his dialysis treatment facility – constitute extreme and outrageous
conduct that exceeds all bounds of that usually tolerated in a civilized
community, done with the intention of causing, or reckless disregard of the
probability of causing, emotional distress. Similarly, a trier of fact could
reasonably find that there was suffering of severe or extreme emotional
distress and that that suffering was causally linked to the acts or omissions
alleged. 
 
        The Court OVERRULES the Demurrer to the
sixth cause of action for intentional infliction of emotional distress. 
 
4.         
Seventh
Cause of Action – Negligent Infliction of Emotional Distress
 
a.  
    Legal
Standard
 
“The
negligent causing of emotional distress is not an independent tort but the tort
of negligence.” (Marlene F. v. Affiliated Psychiatric Med. Clinic, Inc. (1989)
48 Cal.3d 583, 588 [cleaned up]; see also Christensen v. Super. Ct. (1991)
54 Cal.3d 868, 884.)
 
b.  
    Discussion
 
Defendants DaVita, Inc. and Total Renal Care, Inc. demur to the seventh
cause of action for negligent infliction of emotional distress, arguing: (1)
that Plaintiffs did not adequately plead the cause of action under the
bystander theory; and (2) that Plaintiffs did not adequately plead the cause of
action under the direct victim. (Demurrer, pp. 21:2–3, 22:15–16.)
 
The Court considers the first of these arguments. 
 
“We conclude,
therefore, that a plaintiff may recover damages for emotional distress caused
by observing the negligently inflicted injury of a third person if, but only
if, said plaintiff: (1) is closely related to the injury victim; (2) is present at the scene of the injury-producing event at
the time it occurs and is then aware that it is causing injury to the victim;
and (3) as a result suffers serious emotional distress -- a reaction beyond
that which would be anticipated in a disinterested witness and which is not an
abnormal response to the circumstances.” (Thing v. La Chusa (1989) 48
Cal.3d 644, 667–668, footnotes omitted; see also Bird v. Saenz (2002) 28
Cal.4th 910, 914–915.)
 
        Here, Plaintiffs allege that Decedent –
the husband of Plaintiff Andrea Faye Washington and the father of Ezekiel
Oliver Taylor – died in front of Plaintiffs due to Defendants’ acts and/or
omissions, which caused Plaintiffs emotional distress. (FAC, ¶¶ 84–87.) These
allegations are sufficient to plead a cause of action for negligent infliction
of emotional distress under the bystander theory. 
 
The Court
OVERRULES the Demurrer to the seventh cause of action for negligent infliction
of emotional distress. 
 
C.      Conclusion
 
The Demurrer is OVERRULED. 
 
 
II.      
Motion
to Strike
 
A.      Legal Standard
 
Any party, within the time allowed to respond
to a pleading, may serve and file a notice of motion to strike the whole or any
part thereof. (Code Civ. Proc., § 435, subd. (b)(1)). The notice of motion to
strike a portion of a pleading shall quote in full the portions sought to be
stricken except where the motion is to strike an entire paragraph, cause of
action, count or defense. (Cal. Rules of Court Rule 3.1322.)
 
The grounds for a motion to strike shall
appear on the face of the challenged pleading or form any matter of which the
court is required to take judicial notice. (Code Civ. Proc., § 437, subd. (a).)
The court then may strike out any irrelevant, false, or improper matter
inserted in any pleading and strike out all or any part of any pleading not
drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of this state, a court rule, or an
order of the court. (Code Civ. Proc., § 436.) 
 
When the defect which justifies striking a
complaint is capable of cure, the court should allow leave to amend. (Perlman
v. Mun. Ct. (1979) 99 Cal.App.3d 568, 575.)
 
B.      Discussion
 
Defendants DaVita, Inc. and Total Renal Care, Inc. move the Court to
strike various portions of the FAC that: (1) allege malice, fraud, or
oppression; (2) request exemplary and/or punitive damages; or (3) request
attorney’s fees. (Motion to Strike, pp. ii:6–14, 2:11–12, 2:18, 4:2–3,
4:23–24.)
 
The Court disagrees with these arguments. 
 
Plaintiffs are entitled to allege that Defendants DaVita, Inc. and
Total Renal Care, Inc. acted with malice, fraud, or oppression and that they
should therefore be liable for exemplary and/or punitive damages. It will
ultimately be Plaintiffs’ burden to provide that they are entitled to the
relief they seek. 
 
Furthermore, if Plaintiffs prevail on their cause of action for elder
abuse and neglect and meet all the requisite elements for attorney’s fees to
the requisite standard of proof, they will be entitled to attorney’s fees and
costs pursuant to Welfare and Institutions Code section 15657, subdivision (a).
 
C.      Conclusion
 
The Motion to Strike is DENIED. 
 
 