  Case Number:  24STCP01118    Hearing Date:   October 9, 2024    Dept:  39  TENTATIVE RULING
 



DEPARTMENT


39




HEARING DATE


October 9, 2024




CASE NUMBER


24STCP01118




MOTION


Motion for Order Assigning Right to Payment of Earnings




MOVING PARTY


Judgment Creditor Richard Dixon




OPPOSING PARTIES


None



 
MOTION
              Judgment
Creditor Richard Dixon (“Judgment Creditor”) obtained a judgment against
Judgment Debtor PrettyBoyFredo, LLC (“Judgment Debtor”) in Dixon v. Villa,
et al. (Cir. Ct. Ninth Jud. Dist. Fla., 2020, No. 2020-CA-002282-O (Dixon)).  In its order of April 8, 2024, the Court
entered judgment pursuant to the terms of the judgment in Dixon.  Now, Judgment Creditor seeks an order of
assignment of Judgment Debtor’s rights of payments from Alphabet, Inc., Google,
LLC, and YouTube, LLC.  Judgment Debtor
has not filed an opposition to the motion.
ANALYSIS
A judgment creditor may request an assignment
order of the debtor’s rights of payments from a third party.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 708.510, subd. (a).)  The judgment creditor must make a noticed
motion for an assignment order and serve the notice on the judgment debtor
personally or by mail.  (Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 708.510, subds. (a), (b).)  The Court
has discretion to determine whether an assignment is warranted and the amount
of the assignment, based on factors such as the reasonable economic needs of
the judgment debtor, other payments the judgment debtor is required to make,
the amount remaining due on the monetary judgment, and the amount to be
received in satisfaction of the right to payment that is to be assigned.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 708.510, subd. (c).)  
The Judgment Debtor has not opposed the
motion and therefore, has not demonstrated to  the Court it should not assign Judgment
Debtor’s entire rights of payments to the Judgment Creditor.  Accordingly, the Court grants the motion and
assigns Judgment Debtor’s rights of payments from Alphabet, Inc.,
Google, LLC, and YouTube, LLC to Judgment Creditor.
Judgment Creditor
is to give notice of this motion and to file proof of service of same.
            