 Case Number:  24STCV14221    Hearing Date:   October 9, 2024    Dept:  39  TENTATIVE RULING 
 



DEPARTMENT


39




HEARING DATE


October 9, 2024




CASE NUMBER


24STCV14221




MOTIONS


Motion to Strike Portions of Complaint




MOVING PARTY


Defendant Ralphs Grocery Company




OPPOSING PARTY


Plaintiff Matthew George



 
MOTION
Plaintiff Matthew
George (“Plaintiff”) sued Defendant Ralphs Grocery Company (“Defendant”) based
on injuries Plaintiff sustained in a motor vehicle collision.  Defendant moves to strike portions of the complaint.  Plaintiff opposes the motion.
ANALYSIS
Any party, within
the time allowed to respond to a pleading, may serve and file a motion to
strike the whole pleading or any part thereof. 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 435, subd. (b)(1); Cal. Rules of Court, rule
3.1322(b).)  On a motion to strike, the
court may: (1) strike out any irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted in
any pleading; or (2) strike out all or any part of any pleading not drawn or
filed in conformity with the laws of California, a court rule, or an order of
the court.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 436,
subd. (a)-(b); Stafford v. Shultz
(1954) 42 Cal.2d 767, 782.)
Defendant moves to
strike the punitive damages allegations. 
In ruling on a motion to strike punitive damages, “judges read
allegations of a pleading subject to a motion to strike as a whole, all parts
in their context, and assume their truth.” 
(Clauson v. Superior Court
(1998) 67 Cal.App.4th 1253, 1255.)  To
state a prima facie claim for punitive damages, a plaintiff must allege the
elements set forth in the punitive damages statute, Civil Code section 3294.  (College
Hospital, Inc. v. Superior Court (1994) 8 Cal.4th 704, 721 (College Hospital).)  
Pursuant to Civil
Code section 3294, a plaintiff must allege the defendant has been guilty of
oppression, fraud, or malice.  (Civ.
Code, § 3294, subd. (a).)  “Malice is
defined in the statute as conduct intended by the defendant to cause injury to
the plaintiff or despicable conduct which is carried on by the defendant with a
willful and conscious disregard of the rights or safety of others.”  (College
Hospital, supra, 8 Cal.4th at p. 725.) 
“The mere allegation an intentional tort was committed is not sufficient
to warrant an award of punitive damages. 
Not only must there be circumstances of oppression, fraud or malice, but
facts must be alleged in the pleading to support such a claim.”  (Grieves
v. Superior Ct. (1984) 157 Cal.App.3d 159, 166, internal citations and
footnotes omitted.)  
Plaintiff alleges
a semi-truck Defendant owned and operated collided with Plaintiff’s vehicle,
and the driver of the semi-truck fled the scene of the accident.  (Complaint, p. 6.)  These allegations alone do not support an
award of punitive damages against Defendant. 
“[O]rdinarily, routine negligent
or even reckless disobedience of traffic laws would not justify an award of
punitive damages.”  (Taylor v. Superior Court (1979) 24 Cal.
3d 890, 899-900.)  While leaving the scene of an accident
without rendering aid is intentional conduct, it is independently actionable
only if the defendant leaving the scene was “a proximate cause of further
injury or death” beyond the accident itself. 
(Brooks v. E.J. Willig Truck
Transp. Co. (1953) 40 Cal.2d 669, 679.) 
Plaintiff does not allege he sustained further injuries because the
driver of Defendant’s semi-truck left the scene of the accident.  Accordingly, Plaintiff has not stated a valid
claim for punitive damages.  
Additionally, “the
imposition of punitive damages upon a corporation is based upon its own
fault.  It is not imposed vicariously by
virtue of the fault of others.”  (City Products Corp. v. Globe Indemnity Co.
(1979) 88 Cal. App. 3d 31, 36.) 
“Corporations are legal entities which do not have minds capable of
recklessness, wickedness, or intent to injure or deceive.  An award of punitive damages against a
corporation therefore must rest on the malice of the corporation’s
employees.  But the law does not impute
every employee’s malice to the corporation. 
Instead, the punitive damages statute requires proof of malice among
corporate leaders: the officers, directors, or managing agents.”  (Cruz
v. Home Base (2000) 83 Cal. App. 4th 160, 167, internal quotations and
citation omitted.)  Plaintiff does not
allege the driver of the semi-truck that collided with Plaintiff’s vehicle was
an officer, director, or managing agent of Defendant.  Accordingly, Plaintiff must amend to plead a
valid entitlement to punitive damages.
The Court notes Defendant
stated in its motion it was moving to strike “Paragraph 11(g) of the Complaint
seeking ‘prejudgment interests’ and ‘punitive damages.’”  In its motion papers, however, Defendant does
not present any argument nor cite to any authority concerning the striking of Plaintiff’s
allegation concerning prejudgment interest. 
Rather, Defendant’s entire focus is on Plaintiff’s prayer for punitive
damages.  Therefore, this Court does not
consider nor decide whether the allegation regarding prejudgment interest is to
be stricken.
CONCLUSION AND ORDER
Defendant’s motion
to strike the prayer for punitive damages against Defendant is granted with
leave to amend.  
Plaintiff is to
file an amended complaint within 10 days.
Defendant is
ordered to provide notice of this order and to file proof of service of same. 
 