  Case Number:  23CHCV00885    Hearing Date:   October 5, 2023    Dept:  F49 Dept. F-49
Date: 10-5-23
Case # 23CHCV00885 
Trial Date: N/A
 
DEMURRER
 
MOVING PARTY: Defendants, Coldwell Banker Residential
Brokerage Company and Mariana Vassilev
RESPONDING PARTY: Plaintiffs, Martin Mikaeili, et al.
 
RELIEF REQUESTED
Demurrer to the Complaint
·        
1st Cause of Action: Fraud and
Concealment
·        
2nd Cause of Action: Negligent
Misrepresentation
·        
4th Cause of Action: Constructive
Fraud
·        
5th Cause of Action: Unfair Business
Practices
·        
9th Cause of Action: Nuisance
 
Motion to Strike
·        
Allegations in Support of, and Claim for,
Punitive and Treble Damages
 
SUMMARY OF ACTION 
On January 10, 2021, Plaintiffs Martin and Katrin
Mikaeili purchased 10215 Variel Ave., #7, Chatsworth from defendants Jettidy
and Melanie Kuch. Sellers were represented by defendants Mariana Vassileu
Michael Gilbert working for Coldwell Banker. The property was inspected by
defendant Khatri International, Inc. The property was developed by defendants
Irving Kovalsky and Angelica Kovalsky, with the common areas of property are
governed by defendant Angelica Town Homes HOA. Defendant Stephanie Goralski
with defendant Finance of America Mortgage, LLC, conducted the appraisal of the
home.
 
Plaintiffs allege the property was represented as free
from defects, especially water intrusion and mold. Upon acceptance of
possession of the property, Plaintiffs discovered undisclosed structural
defects with the property, which among the problems includes water intrusion
and mold. 
 
On March 28, 2023, plaintiffs filed their complaint for
Fraud and Concealment, Negligent Misrepresentation, Professional Liability,
Constructive Fraud, Unfair Business Practices, Negligence, Strict Liability,
Breach of Governing CC&Rs, and Nuisance. On October 2, 2023, the court
sustained the demurrer of Angelica Townhomes HOA to the first, second, fourth,
and  fifth causes of action for Fraud and
Concealment, Negligent Misrepresentation, Constructive Fraud, and Unfair
Business Practices, and overruled the demurrer to the eighth cause of action
for Breach of Governing CC&Rs. The motion to strike was rendered moot in
part, granted as to allegations in support of, and claim for, punitive damages,
and denied the motion to strike, and denied as to the claim for attorney fees
and “general damages.”
 
RULING
Demurrer: Sustained with Leave to Amend in Part.
Defendant Coldwell Banker Residential Brokerage Company and
Mariana Vassilev brings a demurrer to the first, second, fourth fifth, and ninth
causes of action for Fraud and Concealment, Negligent Misrepresentation,
Constructive Fraud, Unfair Business Practices, and Nuisance. Defendant contends
the challenged causes of action lack factual support. Plaintiff in a one court
day, three calendar day late filed opposition contends the operative complaint
sufficiently articulate the challenged claims. Defendants in reply reiterate
the lack of sufficient facts.
 
A demurrer is an objection to a pleading, the grounds for
which are apparent from either the face of the complaint or a matter of which
the court may take judicial notice. (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.30, subd. (a); see
also Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d
311, 318.) The purpose of a demurrer is to challenge the sufficiency of a
pleading “by raising questions of law.” (Postley
v. Harvey (1984) 153 Cal.App.3d 280, 286.) “In the construction of a
pleading, for the purpose of determining its effect, its allegations must be
liberally construed, with a view to substantial justice between the parties.”
(Code Civ. Proc., § 452.) The court “ ‘ “treat[s] the demurrer as admitting all
material facts properly pleaded, but not contentions, deductions or conclusions
of fact or law . . . .” ’ ” (Berkley v.
Dowds (2007) 152 Cal.App.4th 518, 525.) In applying these standards, the
court liberally construes the complaint to determine whether a cause of action
has been stated. (Picton v. Anderson
Union High School Dist. (1996) 50 Cal.App.4th 726, 733.)
 
“A demurrer for
uncertainty is strictly construed, even where a complaint is in some respects
uncertain, because ambiguities can be clarified under modern discovery
procedures.” (Khoury v. Maly's of California, Inc. (1993) 14 Cal.App.4th 612, 616; Williams v. Beechnut Nutrition Corp. (1986) 185 Cal.App.3d
135, 139 [“[U]nder our liberal pleading rules,
where the complaint contains substantive factual allegations sufficiently
apprising defendant of the issues it is being asked to meet, a demurrer for
uncertainty should be overruled or plaintiff given leave to amend.]
 
On October 2,
2023, the court sustained the demurrer to the first, second, fourth, and
fifth causes of action, thereby rendering the instant demurrer to the for Fraud
and Concealment, Negligent Misrepresentation, Constructive Fraud, Unfair
Business Practices moot. The court therefore only considers the demurrer to the
nuisance cause of action. 
 
9th Cause of Action: Private Nuisance
Defendants challenge the complaint on grounds that the
complaint insufficiently articulates a private nuisance claim, and instead
constitutes a restated negligence claim. Plaintiff in opposition cites to the
elements of nuisance, and challenges the argument in the demurrer as seeking to
factually adjudicate the claim beyond the articulated claim. Defendants in
reply reiterate the lack of specifically articulated conduct constituting
nuisance by moving defendants.
 
A private nuisance arises from the interference with the
quiet use and enjoyment of land. (Oliver v. AT&T Wireless Services (1999) 76 Cal.App.4th 521, 534.) “Anything which is injurious to health, including … an obstruction
to the free use of property, so as to interfere with the comfortable enjoyment
of life or property…” constitutes a private nuisance. (Civ. Code, §§
3479, 3481.) “A nuisance may be both public and
private, but to proceed on a private nuisance theory the plaintiff must prove
an injury specifically referable to the use and enjoyment of his or her land.”
(Koll-Irvine
Center Property Owners Assn. v. County of Orange (1994) 24 Cal.App.4th 1036, 1041.) The nuisance standard
seeks to assign liability on the party(ies) responsible for the harmful
conduct, which the court interprets as an element of directing the manner of
purported nuisance. (San Diego Gas & Electric Co. v. Superior Court (1996) 13 Cal.4th
893, 938.) Other than the purported participation in the transaction as a
broker, nothing in the operative complaint ascribes any specifically wrongful
conduct regarding the creation or continued presence of the nuisance. Merely
citing the elements and adherence to the standards for review of a pleading in
no way relieves a party of the obligation to plead specific facts against the
charged party. The demurrer is sustained.
 
Motion to Strike: Moot.
 
In summary, the demurrer to the first, second, fourth, and
fifth causes of action for Fraud and Concealment, Negligent Misrepresentation,
Constructive Fraud, Unfair Business Practices is moot. The court demurrer to
the nuisance cause of action is sustained with 27 days leave to amend. The
motion to strike is moot.
 
Plaintiffs may file a single amended complaint as to all
parties at the same time. Given the first demurrer was heard three court days
prior to the subject hearing, the 27 day leave to amend window is solely and
strictly meant to conform with the dates of the prior demurrer in order to
insure a single timely responsive pleading. If Plaintiffs somehow seek to
interpret the ruling as allowing for two amended pleadings, the court can and
will sua sponte review any additionally filed items with the intention of
striking the offending pleading. Thus, any confusion or concerns with the
single amendment date may be addressed in oral argument, or the court will
otherwise assume the parties understand. 
 
Plaintiffs may NOT add new causes of action and are only
granted leave to add additional facts. (Harris
v. Wachovia Mortgage, FSB (2010) 185 Cal.App.4th 1018, 1023.) Any new causes of
action added without leave from court are subject to a motion to strike. If
Plaintiffs fails to file an amended pleading Coldwell Banker Residential
Brokerage Company and Mariana Vassilev is ordered to answer the remaining
causes of action pled against them. 
 
Case Management Conference scheduled for February 22, 2024.
 
Moving party to give notice to all parties.
 