  Case Number:  19STCV21321    Hearing Date:   January 7, 2025    Dept:  28 Tentative
Ruling
Judge Rupert A.
Byrdsong
Department 28

Hearing
Date:                                  January 07, 2025          
Case Name:                                      Shane et al. v. Ygrene
Energy Fund, Inc., et al.
Case
No.:                                           19STCV21321                                                
Motion:                                              Default Judgment
Moving Party:                                 Plaintiffs Maria Shane, et
al.
Responding Party:                         Unopposed
Notice:                                                OK

Recommended
Ruling:               Plaintiffs’ request for
entry of default judgment in its favor                                                                         and against Defendants Beatrice Maldonado and
Smart                 Solar                                                                   Energy Sales, Inc. Is
DENIED. 
BACKGROUND
 
On June 19, 2019, Plaintiffs Maria Shane,
Yuri D. Shane and Claudia L. Shane, Trustees of the Shane Family Trust Dated
December 7, 2002, Ravi Financial, LLC, Moysey Vaynberg and Anna Vaynberg
Trustees of the Vaynberg Family Trust Dated June 6, 2002, and Oscar Polishuk
(collectively “Plaintiffs”) filed a complaint against Ygrene Energy Funds,
Inc., Pace Funding Group, LLC, Renovate America, Inc., Beatrice Maldonado,
Smart Solar Energy Sales, Inc., and Does 1 through 100. Plaintiffs alleged
causes of action for (1) fraud, (2) cancellation of instruments based on fraud,
(3) slander of title, (4) negligence, (5) fraud, (6) unfair business practices,
(7) declaratory relief, (8) quiet title, and (9) injunctive relief.  In their First Amended Complaint filed on September
16, 2019, Plaintiffs deleted their fraud cause of action. Plaintiffs filed a
verified Second Amended Complaint on December 12, 2019. In this Second Amended
Complaint, Plaintiffs alleged causes of action for (1) fraud, (2) conspiracy to
commit fraud, (3) aiding and abetting fraud, (4) negligence per se, (5)
negligence, (6) cancellation of instruments, (7) unfair business practices, (8)
declaratory relief, and (9) quiet title.
 
Plaintiffs allege that Beatrice Maldonado and
her alter ego, Smart Solar Energy Sales Inc., engaged in an elaborate scheme to
borrow funds from private investors or lending institutions to acquire various
properties in Southern California. Allegedly, after closing on the properties,
Maldonado and Smart Solar entered into Property Assessed Clean Energy (“PACE”) contracts
to create priority liens that were superior to mortgages on the properties. PACE
is a financing program that enables California homeowners to contract for
energy-efficient improvements to their home. Plaintiffs claim Maldonado and
Smart Solar would do little to no work on the properties, collect the PACE
funds, default on the loans, and abandon the properties.  
 
This case has been filled with multiple
demurrers, special motions to strike, appeals, and settlement and dismissal of
certain parties. Nevertheless, since August of 2022, Plaintiffs have filed
requests for entry of default as to Beatrice Maldonado and Smart Solar Energy
Sales, Inc. at least half-a-dozen times. On August 21, 2024, the Clerk entered
default against Smart Solar Energy Sales, Inc., but the Clerk rejected entry of
default against Beatrice Maldonado.
 
ANALYSIS
 
Code of Civil Procedure (“CCP”) Section 585
permits entry of a judgment after a defendant’s default has been entered.  A party seeking judgment on the default by
the Court must file a Request for Court Judgment, and: (1) a brief summary of
the case; (2) declarations or other admissible evidence in support of the
judgment requested; (3) interest computations as necessary; (4) a memorandum of
costs and disbursements; (5) a proposed form of judgment; (6) a dismissal of
all parties against whom judgment is not sought; (7) a dismissal of all parties
against whom judgment is not sought or an application for separate judgment
under CCP Section 579, supported by a showing of grounds for each judgment; (8)
exhibits as necessary; and (9) a request for attorneys’ fees if allowed by
statute or by the agreement of the parties. 
CRC 3.1800. 
 
JC Form CIV-100 must be used to request court
judgment.  Item number 2 must be
completed.  Item number 8 must be
completed if the Defendant is an individual. 
Plaintiff must submit a proposed form of judgment.  
 
Here, while the Clerk entered default against
Smart Solar Energy Sales, Inc. on August 21, 2024, the Clerk rejected
Plaintiffs’ two requests for entry of default against Beatrice Maldonado. The
Clerk rejected the requests because Plaintiffs failed to complete Section 7d of
CIV-100, failed to show three attempts at service, failed to match Section 1b
to Plaintiffs’ Second Amended Complaint exactly, and failed to properly update
the dates of execution and declaration of mailing. Moreover, Plaintiff has not
submitted a proposed form of judgment or other affidavits, exhibits, and
memoranda as required by CRC 3.1800. To obtain entry of default judgment,
Plaintiffs must successfully obtain entry of default and file all materials
required under CRC 3.1800.
 
CONCLUSION
 
Therefore, Plaintiffs’ request for entry of
default judgment in its favor and against Defendants Beatrice Maldonado and
Smart Solar Energy Sales, Inc. is DENIED.