 Case Number:  SC128027    Hearing Date:   September 5, 2024    Dept:  P Tentative Ruling 
Doe v. Olson, et
al., Case No. SC126806 (related case SC128027)
Hearing Date:
September 5, 2024 
Defendant Chateau
Colline Homeowners Association’s Motion to Compel Plaintiffs’ Responses to Form
Interrogatories; Further Responses to Special Interrogatories (Set One); Request
for Production of Documents (Set One); Request for Sanctions   
 
Defendant Chateau
Colline Homeowners Association served Form Interrogatories, Special
Interrogatories, and Request for Production on plaintiffs on September 6 and 7,
2023. May Doe served responses on October 16, 2023; Jane Doe failed to respond.
At the IDC on January 22, 2024, the court ordered plaintiffs to provide
verified responses. Chateau Colline now moves for an order compelling
plaintiffs to provide further verified responses to its discovery request and
for $4,267.26 in sanctions against each plaintiff. No opposition has been
filed. 
 
Motion as to May
Doe 
Form Interrogatories
2.1, 2.2, 2.5, 2.6(b), 2.7
These requests ask
for May Doe's name, date and place of birth, address, previous employment, and
educational background. Doe objects to responding unless and until a protective
order is issued. Doe does not file an opposition justifying her objections. Moreover,
per the court’s February 21, 2024 minute order granting a protective order, “May
Doe’s name and address are to be treated as confidential and are not to be
disclosed outside the litigation. They may be disclosed to attorneys,
paralegals, and staff at Slaughter, Regan & Cole. Additionally, May Doe’s
name and identifying information can be included in third-party discovery
subpoenas.” 2/21/24 Minute Order. The objections is not well taken in light of
the prior order. These are form interrogatories, and May Doe must serve
responses. 
 
Form
Interrogatories 4.1, 6.2, 6.3, 6.4, 6.5, and 6.7
These interrogatories
request the factual basis of May Doe’s alleged injury and any subsequent
medical treatment, as well as details about medical providers. Doe objects
until a protective order is first in place. The February 21, 2024 order
specifies the scope and extent of the information regarding May Doe. The
objection is not well taken. Responses are ordered. 
 
Form
Interrogatories 10.1, 10.2, and 10.3
These requests ask
about prior medical conditions before the subject incident, and previous
complaints or injuries involving the same body part claimed to be injured. Form
Interrogatory 10.3 asks if May Doe sustained injuries after the incident. Doe
objects to responding unless and until a protective order is imposed and
further objects on privacy grounds. There is no basis to fail to respond to
these form interrogatories, given the prior order. Responses are ordered.
 
Special
Interrogatories and Request for Production 
Chateau Colline’s
counsel’s declaration states May Doe provided unverified responses to these
discovery requests. Responses to discovery requests must be signed under oath
by the party to whom the interrogatories are directed. 5. [8:1023] Responding
to Interrogatories: Cal. Prac. Guide Civ. Pro. Before Trial, Ch. 8F-5. If they
contain an objection, the attorney must also sign the response; if it consists
entirely of objections, only the attorney's signature is required. Blue
Ridge Ins. Co. v. Sup.Ct. (Kippen) (1988) 202 CA3d 339, 344. Here, the
responses are properly verified as they only contain objections and are signed
by May Doe’s counsel of record. 
 
Counsel states the
parties previously attempted to resolve the issue through an IDC. Partida Decl.
¶8; Exh. G. The court ordered May Doe to provide verified responses. Id.
¶9; Exh. H. Since that order, no responses have been received. Id. ¶10. May
Doe has not complied with the court’s order and filed no responsive pleading. An
order requiring responses is proper. 
 
Motion as to Jane
Doe 
Chateau Colline’s
counsel’s declaration states Jane Doe failed to respond to form
interrogatories. Partida Decl. ¶4. Jane Doe only provided unverified responses
to Chateau Colline’s special interrogatories and request for production. Id.
As previously discussed, responses to discovery requests must be signed under
oath. Here, the responses are properly verified as they only contain objections
and are signed by Jane Doe’s counsel of record. 
 
Counsel states the
parties previously attempted to resolve the issue through an IDC. Partida Decl.
¶5; Exh. C. The court ordered Jane Doe to provide verified responses. Id.
¶6; Exh. D. Since that order, no responses have been received. Id. ¶7.
Jane Doe has not complied with the court’s order. Doe does not file an
opposition justifying her failure to comply. Therefore, an order requiring
further responses is proper. 
 
Request for
Sanctions 
Chateau Colline
requests $3,800 in sanctions against each plaintiff for nine hours spent
meeting & conferring with plaintiffs’ counsels, preparing for and attending
the IDC, and preparing and arguing the motions at $300 per hour. The court does
not award any time for the IDC, as this was a precursor to the motion practice,
and the parties had a legitimate discovery dispute. The court finds the amount requested
excessive, given the simplicity of the motions and lack of opposition and reply.
The court awards a total of six hours at $300/hour for preparation of the
motions and appearance at the hearing, plus $60 the filing fee and $7.26 for
the IDC filing fee, a total of $1,867.26. Plaintiffs to pay within 30 days.
GRANTED. 