 Case Number:  24SMCV01819    Hearing Date:   September 5, 2024    Dept:  P Tentative Ruling
Hamo v. Villa
Cannon Homeowners Assoc., Case No. 24SMCV01819
Hearing Date:
September 5, 2024
Defendant’s
Demurrer to the Complaint and Motion to Strike 
 
Plaintiff Hamo
alleges defendant Villa Cannon Homeowners Association (“HOA”) defamed him by falsely
claiming plaintiff sued the HOA. Defendant HOA demurrers to the entire
complaint, arguing each cause of action fails to state a claim and is
uncertain. HOA additionally moves to strike the prayer for punitive damages. 
 
Uncertainty 
A complaint is
subject to demurrer for uncertainty if it fails “as a whole . . . to apprise
the defendant of the basis on which the plaintiff is seeking relief.” E.g., Perkins
v. Superior Court (1981) 117 Cal.App.3d 1, 6. “[D]emurrers for uncertainty
are disfavored, and are granted only if the pleading is so incomprehensible
that a defendant cannot reasonably respond.” Lickiss v. Fin. Industry Regulatory Authority (2012) 208
Cal.App.4th 1125, 1135. A demurrer for uncertainty does not address whether the
pleading fails to “incorporate sufficient facts in the pleading but is directed
at the uncertainty existing in the allegations actually made.” Butler v. Sequeira (1950) 100 Cal.App.2d
143, 145-146. Rather, a demurrer is intended to address whether a pleading is
so incomprehensible that a defendant cannot understand the allegations made. Id. at p. 146. 
 
The complaint is
not incomprehensible, as it alleges Hamo was defamed by the HOA’s allegedly false
statements. OVERRULED.
 
Defamation 
The HOA contends the defamation cause of action fails
because it does not allege a defamatory statement or injury due to the alleged
defamatory statement. 
“The elements of a defamation claim are (1) a
publication that is (2) false, (3) defamatory, (4) unprivileged, and (5) has a
natural tendency to injure or causes special damage. The defamatory statement
must specifically refer to, or be of and concerning, the plaintiff.” John Doe 2 v. Superior Court (2016) 1
Cal.App.5th 1300, 1312, quotation marks and citation omitted. 
The complaint alleges the HOA defamed Hamo by emailing
to its members false claims that Hamo had sued the HOA. It alleges publication via
HOA emails and posted meeting agenda notices regarding “… Mr. Hamo’s Lawsuit.”
Compl. ¶¶19-20. Hammo alleges these statements were false because he did not
file a lawsuit, and so informed the HOA. Id. ¶20, 22. 
Hamo alleges injury due to the defamatory statements, claiming
these false statements tarnished his standing in the community, resulting in
him being shunned and ostracized by the homeowners, who perceive him as a
villain and enemy of the HOA. Id. ¶¶23, 27. Hamo further alleges he has been
ignored when voicing concerns about the building. Id. ¶27. Based on these
allegations, the complaint properly states a cause for action for defamation at
the pleading stage. OVERRULED. 
Negligence 
Next the HOA asserts the negligence cause of action
fails because Hamo does not allege the HOA owed him a duty. In opposition, Hamo
argues the HOA owes him a fiduciary duty of care. Hamo is correct. 
To state a negligence claim, plaintiff must allege (1)
“the existence of a legal duty of care,” (2) “breach of that duty,” and (3)
“proximate cause resulting in an injury.” McIntyre
v. Colonies-Pacific, LLC (2014) 228 Cal.App.4th 664, 671. 
In a conclusory manner, the complaint alleges the HOA owed
Hamo a duty of care as a member of the HOA to keep matters between it and Hamo
confidential. Compl. ¶¶43-44. Though it is not specifically alleged, HOAs and
their board members do owe fiduciary duties of care to members. The complaint
alleges breach of that duty by publishing (and continuing to publish) the
misinformation that plaintiff filed a lawsuit, when he had not. For purposes of
notice pleading, this is sufficient. OVERRULED.
Intentional Infliction of Emotional
Distress 
Finally, the HOA argues the IIED claim fails to allege
outrageous conduct because the posting of the board meeting agenda in the
common area does not meet the standard. The court agrees. 
The elements of a prima facie case for intentional
infliction of emotional distress are: (1) extreme and outrageous conduct with
the intention of causing, or reckless disregard of the probability of causing,
emotional distress; (2) plaintiff’s suffering severe or extreme emotional
distress; and (3) causation. “Conduct to be outrageous must be so extreme as to
exceed all bounds of that usually tolerated in a civilized community.” Wilson v. Hynek (2012) 207 Cal.App.4th
999, 1009, citation and ellipses omitted.
The complaint alleges that after discovering the
publication, Hamo contacted the HOA's representative to inform them there was
no lawsuit and the notice of the scheduled meeting violated the terms of their CC&Rs
by providing only two days' notice. Compl. ¶20. Hamo claims he was
uncomfortable with the publications, but nowhere does Hamo allege discomfort or
vulnerability to emotional distress. SUSTAINED with leave to amend.
Motion to Strike Punitive Damages 
Defendant moves to strike the request for punitive
damages, arguing failure to allege sufficient facts to demonstrate that the HOA
acted with malice, fraud or oppression. 
Punitive damages may be recovered only upon a showing
of malice, fraud or oppression. Civ. Code §3294(a). “Malice” is as conduct
intended to cause injury to a person or despicable conduct carried on with a
willful and conscious disregard for the rights or safety of others. Turman v. Turning Point of Cent. Cal., Inc.
(2010) 191 Cal.App.4th 53, 63. “Oppression” means despicable conduct subjecting
a person to cruel and unjust hardship, in conscious disregard of the person’s
rights. Id. “Fraud” is an intentional
misrepresentation, deceit, or concealment of a material fact known by
defendant, with intent to deprive a person of property, rights or otherwise
cause injury. Id. Conclusory
allegations, devoid of factual assertions, are insufficient. Smith v. Superior Court (1992) 10
Cal.App.4th 1033, 1042. 
The complaint alleges that instead of correcting a
false publication at plaintiff's request, defendants created a new publication
falsely claiming plaintiff initiated legal action against the HOA and emailed
this false statement to every HOA member. Compl. ¶52. Hamo alleges the HOA's
repeated spreading of false and defamatory information establishes malice and caused
anxiety and a feeling of not being welcome in his home community. Id.
¶31. The allegations presently are not sufficient to support punitive damages
and are stricken. GRANTED. 
Plaintiff is to file an amended complaint within 15
days and may amend to allege punitive damages.