  Case Number:  21STCV01974    Hearing Date:   September 5, 2024    Dept:  P Tentative
Ruling
Johnson
v. Essex Property Trust, Inc., et al. Case No. 21STCV01974
Hearing
date: September 5, 2024
Defendants’
Motion for Leave to File Cross-Complaint
 
Johnson
alleged the Essex defendants failed to maintain her apartment, leading to
dangerous and uninhabitable conditions. Essex seeks leave to file a
cross-complaint arising from the same facts. 
Where a
defendant wishes to assert a “related cause of action” against plaintiff, it
must do so in a cross-complaint. Failure to plead it will bar defendant from
asserting it in a later lawsuit. Code Civ. Proc.
§426.10, 426.30. A cross-complaint may be filed
as a matter of right if filed before or at the same time as the answer; otherwise,
leave of court must be obtained. Code Civ. Proc.
§428.50(a), (c). Leave may be granted at any
time. §428.50(c). Where a cause of action would otherwise be lost, leave
to amend is appropriate even if the party was negligent in not moving for leave
to amend earlier. “The legislative mandate is clear. A policy of
liberal construction of section 426.50 to avoid forfeiture of causes of action
is imposed on the trial court.” Silver Org., Ltd. v. Frank (1990)
217 Cal.App.3d 94, 98-99. The legislative intent regarding motions for leave to file a
cross-complaint reflects a preference that these motions be granted absent a
strong showing of bad faith. Silver Org., supra, 217 Cal.App.3d at 100.
Essex seeks leave to file a cross-complaint for breach of contract.
The cross-complaint is compulsory because it alleges a related cause of action
against Johnson arising out of her tenancy. Essex argues it was uncertain
whether past-due rent claims would be negotiated and settled in the related
unlawful detainer action. The negotiation, however, did not dispose of the
unpaid rent claims. Muench Decl. ¶6. 
Essex’s counsel stated as part of the stipulated judgment, Essex reserved
the right to claims, causes of action and defenses related to unpaid rent for
other months. Id. The parties agreed Essex was not waiving any right to
money allegedly owed by Johnson and reserved the right to pursue all remedies
and collection efforts. Id. 
Johnson argues the motion was made in bad faith because Essex could
have filed a cross-complaint for back rent while waiting for a related unlawful
detainer action to be resolved, citing Hong Sang Market, Inc. v. Peng
(2018) 20 Cal.App.5th 474.
The court disagrees, as Hong Sang Market addressed whether
the unlawful detainer claim would have barred a claim for back rent under res
judicata. Essex is not making a claim preclusion argument. Rather, Essex
believed the parties' negotiated settlement addressed the back rent claims. However,
the parties agreed Essex could still pursue those claims. This motion is not
brought in bad faith.
Essex provides a copy of the proposed cross-complaint. Muench
Decl.; Exh. 1. Noting
the legislative intent reflects a preference for leave to file a
cross-complaint, absent bad faith, leave is GRANTED. 