  Case Number:  20STCV30139    Hearing Date:   May 31, 2024    Dept:  T Motion:                                   Motion to be
Relieved as Counsel  
Moving Party:                         Counsel R. Ethan Posey    
Responding Party:                   None 
Tentative Ruling:                    Granted
BACKGROUND
            On August 07, 2020, Plaintiff Giuseppe
Camilleri (“Plaintiff”) filed a Complaint alleging three causes of action: (1)
Premises Liability; (2) Strict Products Liability; and (3) Negligence. 
Plaintiff
moved for default to be entered against Defendant Wheels Labs, the clerk did so
the same day.  On July 31, 2022, Wheels
Labs filed notice that the parties stipulated setting aside the default entered
against Wheels Labs.  Defendant Wheels
Labs filed its Answer to the Complaint on August 17, 2022. 
On
April 26, 2024, Counselor R. Ethan Posey filed the instant Motion to be
Relieved as Counsel for Defendant Wheels Labs. No opposition has been filed. 
DISCUSSION
Applicable Law 
            The court may order that an attorney be changed or substituted at
any time before or after judgment or final determination upon request by either
client or attorney and after notice from one to the other. (Code Civ. Proc. §
284, subd. (2).) “The determination whether to grant or deny a motion to
withdraw as counsel lies within the sound discretion of the trial court.” (Manfredi
& Levine v. Superior Court (1998) 66 Cal.App.4th 1128, 1133.) An
application to be relieved as counsel must be made on Judicial Counsel Forms
MC-051 (Notice of Motion and Motion), MC-052 (Declaration), and MC-053
(Proposed Order). (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1362, subds. (a), (c), (e).) 
In addition, California Rules of Court,
rule 3.1362 subsection (d) requires that the notice of motion and motion,
declaration, and proposed order be served on the client and all other parties
who have appeared in the case by personal service, electronic service, or mail.
If the notice is served by mail, it must be accompanied by a declaration
stating facts showing that either: 
(A) The
service address is the current residence or business address of the client; or 
(B) The service address is the last known residence
or business address of the client, and the attorney has been unable to locate a
more current address after making reasonable efforts to do so within 30 days
before the filing of the motion to be relieved. 
(Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1362, subd.
(1)(A) & (2).)  
      Under
the Code of Civil Procedure section 1014, “A defendant appears in an action
when the defendant answers, demurs, files a notice of motion to strike, files a
notice of motion to transfer pursuant to Section 396(b), moves for
reclassification pursuant to Section 403.040, gives the plaintiff written
notice of appearance, or when an attorney gives notice of appearance for the
defendant. After appearance, a defendant or the defendant's attorney is
entitled to notice of all subsequent proceedings of which notice is required to
be given. Where a defendant has not appeared, service of notice or papers need
not be made upon the defendant.”
Analysis 
On April 26, 2024, Counsel moved for the Court
to relieve him as counsel of record for Defendant Wheels Labs Inc. (Mot.
(MC-051).) Counsel properly filed a Notice of Motion and Motion (MC-051).
Counsel also filed a Declaration in Support of the Motion (MC-052) stating that
the, 
Attorney client relationship has been
compromised and a withdrawal of
representation is necessary under California
Rules of Professional
Conduct Section 3-700(C)(f), non-payment of
attorney fees and expenses.
Wheels Labs, Inc. has been advised of the status
of the case.
(MC-052, ¶ 2.) On his Form MC-052, Counsel
indicates that he has served Wheels Labs by mailing copies of the motion papers
to each of their last known address. (MC-052 ¶ 3a(2).) Counsel avers that the
address provided as the current address of Wheels Labs was confirmed within the
last 30 days by verified principal address and registered agent address on the
California Secretary of State Website. (MC-052 ¶ 3b(1)(c).)
Counsel also provides the Court with a Proposed
Order, Form MC-053, which further includes Proof of Service indicating that all
parties have been served with the Notice, Motion, Declaration, and Order.
(MC-053.)
Here, the Court finds that all procedural
requirements have been satisfied and that there is no indication that
withdrawal would cause injustice or undue delay in the proceedings. 
CONCLUSION
Based on the
foregoing, Attorney R. Ethan Posey’s Motion to be Relieved as Counsel to
Defendant Wheels Labs, Inc. is GRANTED. 
Counsel to give
notice.           