 Case Number:  24STCV09728    Hearing Date:   September 16, 2024    Dept:  55 NATURE OF PROCEEDINGS:  Hearing on Plaintiffs’ Motion For Leave to File First Amended Complaint
 
The Motion For Leave to
File First Amended Complaint filed by Plaintiffs on 8/14/2024 is
granted.  
 
BACKGROUND
Plaintiffs Vanessa Sandoval, Jesse Foreman, and Coleen
Plimmer bring this action against Defendants Tournament Patio Apartments, LLC,
dba Tournament Patio Apartments, Simplex Realty Services, Inc., and Doe
defendants 1 to 25. The Plaintiffs, tenants of a building owned or managed by
Defendants, allege harassment by the Defendants’ property manager.
The causes of action are: 
(1)   Breach
of the Covenant of Quiet Enjoyment
(2)   Nuisance

(3)   Retaliatory
Eviction
 
Plaintiffs now bring a motion seeking leave of Court
to file a First Amended Complaint, which would add Elder Abuse as a cause of
action. The motion is unopposed.  
 
LEGAL STANDARD
Code Civ. Proc. § 473(a)(1) provides, in relevant
part: “The court may, in furtherance of justice, and on any terms as may be
proper, allow a party to amend any pleading or proceeding by adding or striking
out the name of any party, or by correcting a mistake in the name of a party,
or a mistake in any other respect; and may, upon like terms, enlarge the time
for answer or demurrer. The court may likewise, in its discretion, after notice
to the adverse party, allow, upon any terms as may be just, an amendment to any
pleading or proceeding in other particulars; and may upon like terms allow an
answer to be made after the time limited by this code.”
“This discretion should be exercised liberally in
favor of amendments, for judicial policy favors resolution of all disputed
matters in the same lawsuit.” Kittredge Sports Co. v. Superior Court
(1989) 213 Cal.App.3d 1045, 1047. Under California Rules of Court, rule
3.1324(a), a motion to amend a pleading shall (1) include a copy of the
proposed amendment or amended pleading, which must be serially numbered to
differentiate it from previous pleadings or amendments; (2) state what
allegations in the previous pleading are proposed to be deleted, if any, and
where, by page, paragraph and line number, the deleted allegations are located;
and (3) state what allegations are proposed to be added to the previous
pleading, if any, and where, by page, paragraph, and line number, the
additional allegations are located.
Under California Rules of Court, rule 3.1324(b), a
separate declaration must accompany the motion and must specify (1) the effect
of the amendment; (2) why the amendment is necessary and proper; (3) when the
facts giving rise to the amended allegations were discovered; and (4) the
reasons why the request for amendment was not made earlier.
 
ANALYSIS
Plaintiffs seek leave to file a First Amended
Complaint adding a cause of action for Elder Abuse based on alleged continued
wrongdoing during the pendency of the case. 
Motion at p. 5:16-23.  Plaintiffs allege
the amendment is necessary because since filing the original complaint, Defendants’
property manager commenced an unlawful detainer action, continued harassing and
threatening Plaintiffs, and physically attacked Plimmer and Foreman, causing
injuries.  Id. at p. 2:7-13. 
Plaintiffs contend there is no prejudice to Defendants
as the First Amended Complaint makes no difference in the proof, involves no
unfairness, and no depositions have been taken. Id. at p. 7:3-9.
Defendants have not filed an opposition. 
The Court grants Plaintiffs’ Motion for Leave to File
the First Amendment Complaint.    
CONCLUSION
Plaintiffs’ Motion For
Leave to File First Amended Complaint is granted.  Plaintiffs shall file and serve the First Amended
Complaint within 10 days of this order. 