  Case Number:  19STCV27867    Hearing Date:   September 19, 2024    Dept:  8 Tentative Ruling¿ 
¿¿ 
HEARING DATE:                 September 19, 2024 
¿¿ 
CASE NUMBER:                      19STCV27867
¿¿ 
CASE NAME:                           Rafael Torres v.
Technion Contractors TCI, Inc., et al.  
¿¿ 
MOVING PARTY:                Cross-Defendants,
Asbestos Instant Response, Inc.  
¿¿ 
RESPONDING PARTY:        Cross-Complainant,
Technion Contractors TCI, Inc. 
¿¿ 
TRIAL DATE:                       October 7, 2024
¿¿ 
MOTION:¿                              Motion for Summary Judgment, or in the alternative, Summary
Adjudication 
                                                
Tentative Rulings:                  DENIED.
 
I. BACKGROUND¿¿ 
¿¿ 
A.   
Factual¿¿ 
 
Plaintiff Rafael Torres filed First Amended Complaint
(“FAC”) against defendants Technion Contractors TCI, Inc. (“TCI”), Suttles
Plumbing, Inc. (“Suttles”), and Does 1 through 50, alleging one cause of action
for negligence. The FAC alleges the following: defendants developed, built, or
otherwise controlled Paseo Del Rey Elementary School at 7751 Paseo Del Rey, Playa
Del Rey, CA 90293 (the “Property”). Defendants were responsible for, and
negligent in, building, constructing, designing, configuring, repairing,
inspecting, and otherwise controlling all aspects of the gas pipe systems and
their related parts (the “Gas System”) at the Property. Defendants knew or were
reckless in not knowing that their negligent acts relating to the Gas System
would create a concealed dangerous condition that would explode like a bomb
without any warning and cause severe fatal injuries to any person in close
proximity. On July 1, 2019, Plaintiff was working at the Property but was never
warned about the Gas System.  While allegedly
acting in due care, Plaintiff cut into a gas pipe, causing a gas-fed explosion
that allegedly caused Plaintiff to suffer severe and permanent injuries. 
 
 On September
16, 2020, TCI filed a Cross-Complaint against cross-defendants Asbestos Instant
Response, Inc. (“AIR”) and Roes 1 through 20. The Cross-Complaint asserts eight
causes of action: (1) express indemnity, (2) implied indemnity, (3) equitable
indemnity, (4) total indemnity, (5) declaratory relief, duty to defend, (6)
declaratory relief, duty to indemnify, (7) breach of written contract, and (8)
contribution. On March 29, 2022, TCI filed a Request for Dismissal dismissing
the second, third, fourth, fifth, sixth, and eighth causes of action; only the
claims for express indemnity and breach of written contract remain. On March 3,
2023, TCI filed a First Amended Cross-Complaint (“FAXC”) alleging causes of
action for: (1) Express Indemnity; (2) Breach of Written Contract; (3)
Subrogation; (4) Violation of Civil Code section 2782.05(f); and (5) Equitable
Indemnity – Civil Code section 2782.05(j). 
 
On May 19, 2024, TCI filed a Second Amended
Cross-Complaint (“SAXC”) alleging causes of action for: (1) Express Indemnity;
(2) Breach of Written Contract; (3) Subrogation; and (4) Violation of Civil
Code section 2782.05(f). 
 
TCI’s SAXC alleges that on May 7, 2018, AIR entered
into a written subcontractor Agreement (the “Agreement”) with TCI to provide
demolition and abatement work at Paseo Del Rey Elementary School Natural
Science Magnet School, located at 7751 Paseo Del Rey in Playa Del Rey,
California (the “Project”). (SAXC, ¶ 8.) TCI asserts that Rafael Torres
(“Plaintiff”) was an employee of AIR and performed work for AIR at the Project.
(SAXC, ¶ 9.) The SAXC alleges that while performing work for AIR at the Project
and in the course and scope of such employment, on July 1, 2019, Plaintiff
negligently cut a gas line that ignited, causing injury to Plaintiff. (SAXC, ¶ 10.)
TCI notes that on August 8, 2019, Plaintiff filed his complaint, pleading a
single cause of action for negligence and alleging that TCI was liable for
damages caused by the July 1, 2019 incident. (SAXC, ¶ 11.)
 
AIR’s moving papers assert that on August 29, 2019,
TCI tendered its defense and indemnification against the complaint to AIR
pursuant to the defense and indemnity provisions of the Agreement (at Sections
4(c) and 8 of the Agreement), and with that tender, TCI provided information
explaining that the accident occurred during the scope of Plaintiff’s work and
was allegedly caused by the negligence of AIR and its employees. (SAXC, ¶ 12.)
Accordingly, TCI sought full defense and indemnity from AIR. (SAXC, ¶ 12.)  On January 27, 2020, TCI notes that, through
counsel, it tendered its defense and indemnification against the complaint to
AIR pursuant to the defense and indemnity provisions of the Agreement. (SAXC, ¶
13.)
 
Now, AIR has filed a Motion
for Summary Judgment, or in the alternative, Summary Adjudication as to TCI’s
SAXC. 
 
B.   
Procedural¿¿ 
On June 24, 2024, AIR filed a Motion for Summary
Judgment or, in the alternative, Summary Adjudication. On September 5, 2024,
TCI filed an opposition brief. To date, no reply brief has been filed. 
II. EVIDENTIARY OBJECTIONS 
 
TCI’s Evidentiary Objections
to AIR’s Moving Evidence: 
 
Sustain: 1-31.  The foundation for a series of documents
attached to the moving papers is a declaration by counsel, without reference to
whether those documents were authenticated in a given deposition or in a
verified response to a request for production of documents.  Counsel themselves lack personal knowledge of documents
produced in discovery.  Also, denials (as
opposed to admissions) in response to an RFA are not admissible evidence.    
 
Overrule: n/a.
 
 
III. ANALYSIS¿ 
 
A.   
Legal
Standard 
 
The function of a motion for summary
judgment or adjudication is to allow a determination as to whether an opposing
party cannot show evidentiary support for a pleading or claim and to enable an
order of summary dismissal without the need for trial. (Aguilar v. Atlantic
Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 843.) CCP Section 437(c) “requires the
trial judge to grant summary judgment if all the evidence submitted, and ‘all
inferences reasonably deducible from the evidence’ and uncontradicted by other
inferences or evidence, show that there is no triable issue as to any material
fact and that the moving party is entitled to judgment as a matter of law.”¿ (Adler
v. Manor Healthcare Corp. (1992) 7 Cal.App.4th 1110, 1119.)¿ “The function
of the pleadings in a motion for summary judgment is to delimit the scope of
the issues; the function of the affidavits or declarations is to disclose
whether there is any triable issue of fact within the issues delimited by the
pleadings.”¿ (Juge v. County of Sacramento (1993) 12 Cal.App.4th 59, 67,
citing FPI Development, Inc. v. Nakashima (1991) 231 Cal. App. 3d 367,
381-382.)¿ 
 
As to each claim as framed by the
complaint, the defendant moving for summary judgment must satisfy the initial
burden of proof by presenting facts to negate an essential element, or to
establish a defense. (CCP § 437c(p)(2); Scalf v. D. B. Log Homes, Inc. (2005)
128 Cal.App.4th 1510, 1520. ) Courts “liberally construe the evidence in
support of the party opposing summary judgment and resolve doubts concerning
the evidence in favor of that party.”¿ (Dore v. Arnold Worldwide, Inc.¿(2006)
39 Cal.4th 384, 389.)¿ 
 
Once the defendant has met that burden,
the burden shifts to the plaintiff to show that a triable issue of one or more
material facts exists as to that cause of action or a defense thereto.¿¿¿ 
 
To establish a triable issue of material
fact, the party opposing the motion must produce substantial responsive
evidence. (Sangster v. Paetkau (1998) 68 Cal.App.4th 151, 166.) 
 
B.   
Discussion
 
AIR moves for summary judgment or, in the
alternative, summary adjudication on the grounds that AIR argues that TCI lacks
standing to recover for its on (nonexistent) injuries because TCI’s defense and
indemnity were paid by its insurers. Instead, AIR notes that TCI contends that
its insurers were subrogated to its rights against AIR when they paid TCI’s
settlement obligations to the Plaintiff, and that the insurers assigned those
subrogation rights back to TCI. As such, AIR asserts that for TCI to recover
under the SAXC, TCI must show: (1) that TCI’s underlying causes of action
against AIR are viable, (2) that Everest and Liberty are subrogated to TCI’s
rights of recovery against AIR as to each cause of action, and (3) that TCI’s
insurers have effectively assigned those rights back to TCI.  AIR argues that TCI fails to raise triable
issues of fact on several of the key elements, and AIR’s motion for summary
judgment or, in the alternative, summary adjudication, should be granted.  But the Court does not reach the shifted
burden or whether TCI’s opposition is sufficient to raise triable issues of
material fact unless the moving party carries it initial burden on MSJ.
 
 
i.               
Timeliness

 
TCI argues that this Court should deny
AIR’s motion on procedural grounds alone, because the motion was untimely
served. TCI cites to Code of Civil Procedure section 437c, subdivision (a)(3),
which requires a summary judgment be heard at least thirty (30) days prior to
trial. In this case, trial is set for October 7, 2024, which would make the
summary judgment hearing September 7, 2024. Because this hearing is not set
until September 19, 2024, TCI argues that the motion should be denied on
procedural grounds. TCI also argues that because the hearing date should have
been September 7, 2024, the service of the motion should have been June 21,
2024. 
 
However, TCI’s argument ignores this
Court’s September 3, 2024 granting of AIR’s ex parte application for an order
to hear the motion within thirty (30) days of trial. Thus, there has been no
violation of section 473c, subdivision (a)(3), a section that provides that an
MSJ may be heard later than thirty (30) days before the date of trial when the
court orders otherwise. 
 
ii.             
20-Day
Notice Provision 
 
Next AIR argues that TCI failed to comply
with the 20-day notice provision in the subcontract agreement, thereby barring
any contractual or express indemnity claim against AIR. The subcontract
included the following notice provision: 
 
"Neither party shall be entitled
to recover damages from the other as a result of any act, omission, or event
without proof that it gave the other party, within 20 days of the first
occurrence of the action, omission[,] or event, written notice that it was
being or would be damaged by such act, omission[,] or event. A failure to
provide this notice is conclusive proof of a failure to mitigate damages and a
complete defense to recovery of any damages, including damages for delay,
caused by such act, omission[,] or event regardless of whether the theory of
recovery is legal, contractual, equitable, or otherwise." 
 
(SAXC, ¶ 8, Exhibit
B at p. 3.)
 
This
20-day argument was analyzed and discussed by this Court on demurrer in this
Court’s ruling for the May 10, 2023 demurrer hearing.   There, the Court noted that the FAXC alleges
that Plaintiff was injured in an accident
while working for AIR on July 1, 2019, and that he filed suit against Technion
on August 8, 2019. (Id., ¶ 11.)   TCI
asserts that it did not become clear that TCI would be damaged by Mr. Torres’
accident until he sued TCI on August 8, 2019, at which point incurring defense
costs became certain. The Court on Demurrer 16 months ago, and the Court on MSJ
now, disagrees with the basic premise that TCI was required to give notice
within 20 days of the explosion as opposed to within 20 days of when the
lawsuit was filed.  TCI’s evidence in
opposition to the motion demonstrates that it gave written notice and tendered
its defense and indemnity to AIR on August 20, 2019, just 12 days after the
lawsuit was filed.  That is within the
contractual 20-day period, or there is at least a triable issue as to
compliance with the contractual provision if the 20-day period in the
Subcontract is asserted to be ambiguous and thereby subject to a jury’s
determination.   MSJ is thus not established by the 20-day argument.
 
iii.            
Civil
Code Section 2782.05, subdivision (a)
 
Next, AIR argues that TCI’s cross-claims
are legally barred under Civil Code section 2782.05, subdivision (a). Under
general contractor’s contractual indemnity for injury claims arising out of the
scope of subcontractor’s work “except to the extent the claims arise out of,
pertain to, or relate to the active negligence or willful misconduct” of the
general contractor, any negligence of the general contractor only precludes the
general contractor from being indemnified for the portion of his liability
based on its own active negligence or intentional misconduct.” (Oltmans
Construction Co. v. Bayside Interiors, Inc. (2017) 10 Cal.App.5th 355 (“Oltmans”).)
More specifically, Civil Code section 2782 states: 
 
“(a)
Except as provided in subdivision (b), provisions, clauses, covenants, and
agreements contained in, collateral in, collateral to, or affecting any
construction contract and amendments thereto entered into on or after January
1, 2013, that purport to insure or indemnify, including the cost to defend, a
general contractor construction manager, or other subcontractor, by a
subcontractor against liability for claims of death or bodily injury to
persons, injury to property, or any other loss, damage, or expense are void and
unenforceable to the extent the claims arise out of, pertain to, or
relate to the active negligence or willful misconduct of that general
contractor, construction manager, or other subcontractor, or their
agents, other servants, or other independent contractors who are responsible to
the general contractor, construction manager, or other subcontractor pursuant
to the construction contract. This section shall not be waived or modified by
contractual agreement, act, or omission of the parties. Contractual provisions,
clauses, covenants, or agreements not expressly prohibited herein are reserved
to the agreement of the parties…”
 
(Civ. Code, § 2782.05, subd. (a).) 
 
 Despite
this, AIR argues that TCI seeks express indemnity from AIR under Section 4(c)
of the Subcontract Agreement to “indemnify, defend and save harmless” TCI from
“any and all claims, debts, demands, damages, judgments, awards, losses,
liabilities, interests, attorney’s fees, costs and expenses of any kind at any
time arising out of or in any way connected with the performance of the
Subcontract work…from all causes, including the active or passive negligence”
of TCI. (AIR’s SSUMF No. 57.) AIR contends that TCI cannot contract out of
liability for its own active negligence. The Court agrees. However, to prevail
on an MSJ, AIR’s moving papers and evidence must establish that no issue of
material fact exists as to TCI’s active negligence. A reading of Civil Code
section 2782.05, indicates that the contract is void IF the claims arise
out of, pertain to, or relate to the active negligence or willful misconduct of
the general contractor. 
 
iv.            
The
Privette Doctrine
 
AIR contends that under the Privette
Doctrine, TCI faced a risk of liability to Plaintiff only if it was actively
negligent. AIR asserts that under the Privette Doctrine, “hirers” are
generally immune from liability for injuries suffered by the employees of their
contractors and subcontractors. AIR argues that the only exception relevant
here – the “Hooker” exception- applies only where the hirer retains
control over the work and affirmatively contributes to the plaintiff’s
injuries. (i.e., was actively negligent.) However, as noted by both AIR
and TCI, the Hooker exception applies only where the hirer “actually
exercises…control [over part of the work] so as to affirmatively contribute to
the worker’s injury.” Citing only legal precedent, AIR contends that since TCI
faced no possible liability for passive negligence, as a matter of law, any and
all settlement amounts paid on TCI’s behalf by its insurers to Plaintiff would
necessarily have been for TCI’s active negligence and therefore unrecoverable. 
 
As the Opposition emphasizes, AIR has
provided no evidence as to why TCI’s insurer paid out the settlement, whether
the payout was because of active negligence on the part of TCI, what exactly
TCI’s active negligence was, or what the percentage of TCI’s claimed
responsibility was its own active negligence. The Court recent First District
decision in Oltmans illustrates some of the Court’s concerns on these
points. First, as to the Privette doctrine, the Oltmans Court did
not rule on that issue as the parties’ briefs argued that that terms of the indemnity
provision of the subcontract did not bar all indemnity in the event it was
established that the contractor was actively negligent in connection with the
subject accident. 
 
Second, the Oltmans Court preliminarily
noted that “summary judgment may well have been improper because [cross-defendant,
and subcontractor,] Bayside failed to present evidence establishing Oltmans’
active negligence as a matter of law.” (Oltmans, supra, 10
Cal.App.5th at 361.) The First District decision further stated that they
agreed that if Oltmans was negligent, its negligence would have been active,
rather than passive, as that distinction has been drawn in applying the law
applicable to indemnity agreements.” (Ibid.) As such, even in a case
involving Privette, a trial court’s finding that the Privette doctrine
barred equitable indemnity did not prevent the Court of Appeal from
subsequently ruling on a Civil Code section 2782.05 issue. As such, this Court
does not believe that Privette, as applied to TCI, inherently bars the
indemnity clause in the subcontractor agreement as a matter of law. 
 
This Court also indicates that, like the
subcontractor in Oltmans who failed to provide evidence as to the
contractor’s active negligence, AIR’s moving papers also lacked such evidence
here.  AIR has not presented proof in its
moving papers of TCI’s active negligence such that the Court can rule on that
issue on this motion as a matter of law. 
Instead, the minimal evidence presented in support of this motion merely
raises an inference.   AIR’s entire argument as to the subcontractor
provision and TCI’s perceived active negligence is merely based on an
assumption or belief. AIR asserts, without any evidence, that despite
substantial protections provided to hirers like TCI under prevailing California
law, TCI and its insurers decided to avoid any potential exposure for
plaintiff’s injuries, TCI and its insurers settled for $9.9 million. (AIR’s
SSUMF Nos. 27-28, 36; Sustained Objections to this Evidence.)  While one can reasonably argue an inference of
active negligence arises from that, the Court finds that is not the only reasonable
inference because the moving papers do not rule out other reasonable inferences
as to why a defendant in a catastrophic industrial accident circumstance with
uncertain non-economic damages and considerable economic damages exposure might
choose to settle within its policy limits. 

 
            The
Court finds that AIR has not carried its initial burden on an MSJ.  AIR has not demonstrated that no issue of
material fact exists as to the subcontractor agreement based on Civil Code
section 2782.05, that TCI’s settlement is conclusive proof that TCI was engaged
in active negligence at the time of the incident, that TCI and its insurer
would pay out the settlement only if they were actively negligent, nor that TCI
was actively negligent at the time of the incident. As such, the summary
judgment motion is DENIED as to these issues. 
 
v.              
TCI’s
Standing
 
Next, AIR argues that TCI has no standing
to assert any of the non-subrogation causes of action because it suffered no
damages under any of them. AIR made this same argument in its previous demurrer
to the FAXC. Even there, prior to having the benefit of evidence and taking the
bare allegations as true, the Court found to the contrary. This Court noted
that it did not believe that an insured must pay money out of its own pocket
(other than insurance premiums) in order to pursue a subrogation claim in the
insured’s own name after the insured has obtained its contracted-for
indemnification from its insurers who paid to settle a covered claim. The Court
notes that although the standard is different on summary judgment than it is on
demurrer, AIR failed to provide any citations to material facts it believes
proves this point. Instead, the Court notes that AIR relied on the same precedent
that it did at demurrer, Bramalea Cal. Inc. v. Reliable Interiors, Inc.
(2004) 119 Cal.App.4th 468, 471.   
 
As such, since AIR’s argument was
insufficient at the pleading stage, and has not since obtained or presented evidence
to strengthen that argument at the summary judgment phase, this Court DENIES
summary judgment as to the standing issue as well as AIR has failed to carry
its initial burden on standing. 
 
vi.            
TCI’s
Express Indemnity Cause of Action 
 
AIR also argues that TCI fails to state
sufficient facts to support its express indemnity cause of action. AIR argues
that TCI has asserted a cause of action under Civil Code section 2782.05,
subdivision (f) for AIR’s failure to perform its obligations under Civil Code
section 2782.05. In opposition, TCI asserts that Civil Code section 2782.05,
subdivision (e) requires a general contractor seeking contractual defense and
indemnity to “provide a written tender of the claim, or portion thereof, to the
subcontractor that includes the information provided by the claimant or
claimants relating to claims caused by that subcontractor’s scope of work.”
Further, TCI notes that if the general contractor does so, then the
subcontractor may (1) defend the claim or (2) pay, within 30 days of receipt of
an invoice from the general contract, “no more than a reasonable share of the
general contractor’s…defense fees and costs…” (Civ Code, § 2782.05, subd. (e).)

 
AIR has argued that TCI has not provided
evidence that AIR complied with these above requirements by providing “an
itemization of the claims caused by AIR’s scope of work” and “a written
statement regarding how the reasonable allocation share of fees and costs was
determined.” Again, as with the above section this Court notes that AIR made
this same argument in its demurrer, where it failed, as this Court noted that TCI’s
pleading is devoid of the indemnitee’s performance of that portion of the
contract which gives rise to the indemnification claim, i.e., that (a) it
provided a complete written tender, does not attach said tender/demand to its
FAXC, (b) does not state the tender/demand by TCI included an itemization of
the claims caused by AIR’s scope of work, or (c) that TCI does not allege in
its FAXC that their demand/tender provides a written statement regarding how
the reasonable allocation share of fees and costs was determined. 
 
Since
that May 10, 2024 minute order, the Court notes that AIR has failed to provide
any new facts to support its argument on a motion for summary judgement. Further,
this Court notes that the standard on summary judgment is not whether Plaintiff
has provided evidence or whether the allegations alleged in the pleading are
adequate. Instead, it is AIR’s initial burden of proving that no triable issue
of material fact exists as to this cause of action. AIR may not do so with a
“lack of allegation” argument, especially where this Court found said
allegation to be sufficient on demurrer. 
 
As
such, the motion for summary judgment on this ground is also DENIED. 
 
 
vii.          
TCI’s
Breach of Contract Cause of Action 
 
AIR next argues that TCI fails to state
sufficient facts to allege a breach of contract claim. As this argument section
in AIR’s brief appears to be another argument based on a demurrer standard,
without any citations to evidence, the Court DENIES the motion for AIR’s failure
to carry its initial burden on a motion for summary judgment. 
 
viii.        
TCI’s
Subrogation Cause of Action 
 
Lastly, AIR argues TCI’s subrogation
cause of action fails to state sufficient facts. Again, because TCI makes the
same arguments it made during its previously filed demurrer, which was overruled
by this Court, and because AIR has failed to cite to admissible evidence to carry
the moving party’s initial burden on summary judgment, the Court DENIES the
motion for summary judgment as to this cause of action as well. 
 
IV. CONCLUSION

 
            For the foregoing reasons, this
Court tentatively DENIES AIR’s Motion for Summary Judgment or, in the
alternative, summary adjudication. 
 
            TCI is ordered to provide notice. 
 
 
 