 Case Number:  21TRCV00813¿¿    Hearing Date:   September 19, 2024    Dept:  8 Tentative
Ruling¿ 
¿¿ 
HEARING DATE:                 September 19, 2024 
¿¿ 
CASE NUMBER:                   21TRCV00813
¿¿ 
CASE NAME:                        Jorge Garcia v. US Best Ingredients, Inc.,
et al.
¿¿ 
MOVING PARTY:                Plaintiff,
Roberto Rivera, et al
¿¿ 
RESPONDING PARTY:       Defendant,
US Best Ingredients, Inc. (No Opposition – Stipulation Regarding Settlement)
¿¿ 
TRIAL DATE:                       Not
Set. 
¿¿ 
MOTION:¿                              (1) Motion for Stipulation Regarding Amendment of Settlement 
 
Tentative Rulings:                  (1) Motion for Stipulation Regarding Amendment of Settlement is
tentatively GRANTED pending oral argument edification of the Court as to whether
notice to the class has already included notification of the $10,000 amount
payable to the class representative, and how the
parties intend to inform the class members of the amendment.
 
 
I. BACKGROUNG
 
A.   
Factual

 
On November 3, 2023, Plaintiff, Jorge
Garcia, individually and on behalf of himself and all others similarly situated
(“Plaintiff”), filed a Complaint against Defendant, US Best Foods Ingredients,
Inc., and DOES 1 through 50. The Complaint alleging a cause of action for: (1)
Penalties Under the Private Attorneys’ General Act, Labor Code § 2698, et seq.
Plaintiff alleges that Defendant failed to pay minimum wages; failed to pay
overtime owed; failed to provide lawful meal periods; failed to authorize and
permit lawful rest periods; failed to pay wages owed at separation; and
knowingly and intentionally failed to comply with itemized employee wage
statement provisions. 
 
On May 17, 2023, Plaintiff filed a Motion
for Approval of PAGA Representative Action Settlement. On June 14, 2023, this
Court GRANTED that motion. 
 
Now, Defendant files a stipulation for
final approval of settlement. 
 
B.   
Procedural

 
On June 27, 2024, Defendant filed  a stipulation regarding settlement. To date, no opposition
has been filed. On August 29, 2024, the
parties filed a stipulation regarding the settlement, which was subsequently
granted.
 
II.            
ANALYSIS¿ 
 
A.    Approval of Class Action Settlement¿¿ 
 
The
court has broad powers to determine whether a proposed settlement is
fair.  (Mallick v. Superior Court (1979) 89 Cal.App.3d 434,
438.)  The California standard for approval of class settlements is
similar to the federal requirement that the settlement be fair, reasonable, and
adequate for class members overall.   (Dunk v. Ford Motor Co.
(1996) 48 Cal.App.4th 1794, 1801.)  California Rules of Court, rule
3.769(g), provides for an inquiry into the fairness of the proposed settlement
prior to the final approval hearing.  After this, the court must make and
enter judgment, including a provision for the retention of the court's
jurisdiction over the parties to enforce the terms of the judgment.  (See
California Rules of Court, rule 3.769(h).)  The class action may not be
dismissed once judgment is entered.  (See id., rule
3.770.)    
 
B.    Terms of Joint Stipulation of Class
Settlement and Release Agreement
 
A copy of the executed joint stipulation
of class settlement and release agreement is attached to the motion as Exhibit
2. Defendant notes that the parties engaged in formal settlement negotiations,
including a full day of mediation occurring on August 2, 2022. (Motion, ¶ 2.)
Defendant contends that the parties negotiated a total maximum settlement of
$225,000. (Motion, ¶ 4.) The amount includes $10,000 of the
Total Settlement Payment being provided to plaintiff as an individual
settlement in exchange for a general release, to secure a waiver and dismissal
of any individual claims he has or may have against Defendant, and to serve as
a service award relating to his role as the lead/sole plaintiff in the lawsuit.
(Motion, ¶ 4.) Defendant also asserts that the parties’ intention that
Plaintiff’s individual settlement payment be paid through the settlement funds
is confirmed in the Memorandum of Understanding (“MOU”) executed by the parties
on September 20, 2022. (Motion, ¶ 5, Exhibit 1.) 
 
Following
the MOU, Defendant notes that the parties drafted and executed an individual
settlement agreement relating to Plaintiff’s claims. (Motion, ¶ 6, Exhibit 2.)
Defendant clarifies that due to an error in drafting, the joint settlement and
release of claims did not reference the fact that Plaintiff’s payment would be
funded from the total settlement payment. (Motion, ¶ 7.) However, as Defendant
notes, this Court granted approval of the PAGA settlement on June 14, 2023.
(Motion, ¶ 8, Exhibit 4.) Defendant further asserts that Plaintiff and
Defendant seek and argue to correct these errors via the stipulation of this
motion to ensure the settlement funds be properly allocated and distributed. (Motion,
¶ 9.) As such, Defendant contends that the parties agree and have stipulated to
modify the Court’s order as follows: 
 
1.     The
Joint Settlement and Release of Claims agreement shall be modified to reference
the fact that $10,000 of the Total Settlement Payment shall be paid to
Plaintiff as his individual settlement payment/service award; 
2.     The
Court’s Order hall be amended to indicated that Plaintiff shall be paid $10,000
of the Total Settlement Payment as his individual settlement
payment/enhancement award;
3.     Paragraph
8 of the Court’s Order is modified as follows: “The remaining PAGA Settlement
Amount of $124,911.38 shall be allocated as follows: 75% of the PAGA Settlement
Amount, or $93,683.53, will be paid to the LWDA, and the remaining 25%, or
$31,227.85, will be paid to all PAGA Settlement Members pursuant to the
calculation set forth in the Settlement Agreement for calculating Individual
Settlement Payments.” 
4.     The
Court’s Order triggered the funding obligations of Defendant contemplated in
the Settlement. Defendant shall continue making payments in accordance with the
timelines set forth in the Settlement Agreement. Nothing contained in this
Stipulation or the requested modification to the Court’s Order modifies,
delays, or otherwise impacts said timelines. 
5.     A
(proposed) amendment to the Court’s Order (Motion, Exhibit 5.) 
 
The
courts have a strong policy of allowing motions for leave to amend. “If the
motion to amend is timely made and the granting of the motion will not
prejudice the opposing party, it is error to refuse permission to amend….” (Morgan
v. Super. Ct. (1959) 172 Cal.App.2d 527.) Here, because the parties have stipulated
to these amendments, the Court finds the this stipulated amendment can be
completed without prejudice to the parties. The Court is tentatively inclined
to GRANT this motion, however, the Court seeks information on whether notice has already been received by the class
members in the previous amend, not including the subtraction of the $10,000 to
Plaintiff, and if so, how the parties intend to inform the class members of the
amendment. 
 
III.          
CONCLUSION 
 
Based on the foregoing, the Motion for
Stipulation of Final Approval of Settlement, including the stipulated
amendment, is tentatively GRANTED pending discussion on the Court’s questions
above. 
 
Defendant is ordered to provide notice of
the Court’s ruling.
 
 
 
 