 Case Number:  KC069912    Hearing Date:   October 3, 2023    Dept:  K Plaintiffs Byron Kerns and
Sylvia Kerns’ Motion for Attorney’s Fees is GRANTED. 
Background   
Plaintiffs Byron Kerns and Sylvia
Kerns (together, “Plaintiffs”) allege as follows:
Michael C. Yang
(“Yang”), Sylvia Wei-Ting Hu aka Sylvia Hu (“Hu”) and Hi Life LLC (“HLL”)
(collectively, “Owners”) were and are the owners of the vacant land located at
0 Cortez Tract #2371, West Covina, California 91791 (“Property”). On or about
December 11, 2011, Plaintiffs and owners entered into a written agreement
wherein Owners agreed to sell the Property to Plaintiffs for $650,000.00. Since
Wang and Hu were going through a divorce at the time, the closing of escrow was
set for ten days after the court entered an order approving the sale as set
forth in the agreement. On/about January 2, 2014, the court entered an order
directing the clerk to execute the necessary documents and close the sale of
the Property to Plaintiffs. Plaintiffs were not informed about the court’s
order until almost a year later, at which time Plaintiffs demanded that escrow
be closed per the terms of the agreement. Owners refuse to close escrow and
have allowed several liens to be placed on the Property.
On December 28, 2017, Plaintiffs
filed a complaint, asserting causes of action against Hu, HLL, Yang, Linkage Financial
Group, Inc. (“LFG”) and Does 1-50 for:
1.                 
Specific Performance 
2.                 
Declaratory Relief
On October 10, 2018, Yang’s default
was entered.
On November 8, 2018, Hu filed a First Amended
Cross-Complaint (“FACC”), asserting causes of action against Plaintiffs, Yang,
LFG and Roes 1-10 for:
1.                 
Breach of Contract
2.                 
Rescission of Contract
3.                 
Quiet Title against Bryon Kerns and Sylvia Kerns
4.                 
Quiet Title against Michael C. Yang
5.                 
Quiet Title against Linkage Financial Group, Inc. 
6.                 
Declaratory Relief
On March 27, 2019, Yang’s default was entered on the FACC.
On June 21, 2022, Plaintiffs filed an “Amendment to
Complaint,” wherein Hu Tseng Kwang (“Kwang”) was named in lieu of Doe 11.
On November 15, 2022, Kwang’s default was entered.
The matter proceeded to court trial on December 8, 2022 and
February 24, 2023. On May 16, 2023, the court’s “Statement of Decision” was
filed.
On May 30, 2023, judgment was entered. On June 13, 2023,
Plaintiffs dismissed HLL, without prejudice. On June 21, 2023, LFG filed (and
electronically served) a “Notice of Entry of Judgment.”
On July 13, 2023, Hu filed a “Notice of Appeal.”
An Order to Show Cause Re: Why the Cross-Complaint Should
Not Be Dismissed as to Defendant Michael C. Yang for Failure to Prosecute is
set for November 1, 2023.
Legal Standard
“Except as otherwise expressly provided by statute, a
prevailing party is entitled as a matter of right to recover costs in any
action or proceeding.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 1032, subd. (b).)
“The following items are
allowable as costs under Section 1032: . . . (10) Attorney's fees, when
authorized by any of the following: (A) Contract. (B) Statute. (C) Law.” (Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 1033.5, subd. (a)(10).)
“In any action on a contract, where the contract
specifically provides that attorney's fees and costs, which are incurred to
enforce that contract, shall be awarded either to one of the parties or to the
prevailing party, then the party who is determined to be the party prevailing
on the contract, whether he or she is the party specified in the contract or
not, shall be entitled to reasonable attorney's fees in addition to other
costs…” (Civ. Code § 1717, subd. (a).)
“The court, upon notice and motion by a party, shall
determine who is the party prevailing on the contract for purposes of this
section, whether or not the suit proceeds to final judgment. Except as provided
in paragraph (2), the party prevailing on the contract shall be the party who
recovered a greater relief in the action on the contract. The court may also
determine that there is no party prevailing on the contract for purposes of this
section…” (Civ. Code § 1717, subd. (b)(1).)
Discussion
Plaintiffs move the court for an award of attorney’s fees in
the amount of $47,160.00.
Evidentiary Objections
The court rules on Hu’s evidentiary objections as follows:
Overruled as to Nos. 1-3.
The court rules on Plaintiffs’ evidentiary objections as
follows: Sustained as to Nos. 1-10, 12 and 13 and Overruled as to No. 11.
Merits
1.                 
Entitlement
to Fees
The court issued its “Statement of Decision” on May 16, 2023
and entered judgment on May 30, 2023.[1]
Plaintiffs assert
they are entitled to attorney fees from Yang and Hu pursuant to Paragraph 26 of
the “Vacant Land Purchase Agreement and Joint Escrow Instructions” dated
November 25, 2011 (“Agreement”), which provides as follows:
            ATTORNEY FEES: In any action,
proceeding, or arbitration between Buyer
and Seller arising out of this Agreement, the prevailing Buyer or Seller
shall be 
entitled to reasonable attorney fees and costs from the non-prevailing
Buyer or 
Seller, except as provided in paragraph 31A.
 
(Creyaufmiller
Decl., ¶ 3, Exh. 1.) 
Paragraph 31A of the
Agreement, in turn, provides in pertinent part as follows:
 
            MEDIATION: Buyer and Seller agree to
mediate any dispute or claim arising 
between them out of this Agreement, or any resulting transaction, before 
resorting to arbitration or court action . . . If, for any dispute or
claim to which 
this paragraph applies, any party (i) commences an action without first
attempting 
to resolve the matter through mediation, or (ii) before commencement of
an action, refuses to mediate after a request has been made, then that party
shall not be entitled 
to recover attorney fees, even if they would otherwise be available to
that party in 
any such action. . . 
 
(Id.)
 Hu, in response,
argues that the Agreement is not enforceable against her because it was not
signed by Plaintiffs and that, as such, she is not responsible for attorney’s
fees as set forth therein. The court, however, has already determined that the
Agreement is enforceable against Hu. The court declines to entertain Hu’s
attempt to relitigate this issue.
Plaintiffs assert
that they requested that Yang and Hu mediate this matter on at least three
separate occasions, namely (1) via an April 12, 2016 letter from Plaintiffs’
counsel Timothy P. Creyaufmiller (“Creyaufmiller”) to Joyce J. Zhao (“Zhao”) of
Huntington Realty Group (Creyaufmiller Decl., ¶ 5, Exh. 2); (2) via a May 4,
2016 letter from Creyaufmiller to Zhao (Id., ¶ 7, Exh. 4) and (3) via a
May 19, 2016 letter from Creyaufmiller to Zhao and attorney John Ma (“Ma”) (Id.,
¶ 9, Exh. 5).
Hu, in response,
asserts that Creyaufmiller failed to attempt to mediate this matter with her,
either directly or through Ma, and that the only communications were with Zhao,
who was Yang’s real estate agent but not her agent. Hu and Ma have both
provided declarations disavowing receipt of any oral or written request for
mediation, including the May 19, 2016 letter, prior to the filing of the
lawsuit. (Hu Decl., ¶¶ 4 and 11; Ma Decl., ¶ 5). Hu’s claim that Zhao was not
her agent, however, is belied by the “Amended Order After Hearing” entered
September 13, 2010 in case styled Marriage of Sylvia Wei-Ting Hu and Michael
C. Yang, Case No. BD320796 (Creyaufmiller Reply
Decl., ¶ 4, Exh. A). Zhao, moreover, acknowledged via a May 4, 2016 email that
she forwarded Creyaufmiller’s communication
alternatively requesting communication “to all parties involved in or
knowledgeable about the case.” Creyaufmiller Decl., ¶ 6, Exh. 3).
The court determines
that Plaintiffs the prevailing party for purposes of Civil Code § 1717,
subdivision (b)(1), that Plaintiffs unsuccessfully attempted to mediate this
matter with Yang and Hu prior to instituting this lawsuit, and that Plaintiffs
are to recoup attorney’s fees against Yang and Hu pursuant to the Agreement.
2.                 
Reasonableness
of Fees
The court next turns to the issue of reasonableness of the
fees sought. “[T]rial courts have broad discretion in determining the amount of
a reasonable attorney's fee award. This determination is necessarily ad hoc and
must be resolved on the particular circumstances of each case.” (Meister v. Regents of University of
California (1998) 67 Cal.App.4th
437, 452.) “Trial judges are entrusted with this discretionary determination
because they are in the best position to assess the value of the professional
services rendered in their courts.” (Christian Research Institute v. Alnor (2008)
165 Cal.App.4th 1315, 1321.)
“[O]nce a party has established he or she is entitled to
fees, the lodestar method is generally presumed to be the starting point in
analyzing the appropriate amount of attorney fees. Under this method, a court
first calculates the number of hours reasonably spent multiplied by the
reasonable hourly rate for each billing professional, and then may adjust the
amount based on various relevant factors to ensure the fee reflects the fair
market value [of the attorney services] for the particular action. (K.I. v. Wagner (2014) 225 Cal.App.4th
1412, 1425 [quotation marks and citations omitted].)
a.         Reasonableness of Hourly Rates 
 
“In determining
hourly rates, the court must look to the prevailing market rates in the
relevant community. The rates of comparable attorneys in the forum district are
usually used. In making its calculation, the court should also consider the
experience, skill, and reputation of the attorney requesting fees. The court
may rely on its own knowledge and familiarity with the legal market in setting
a reasonable hourly rate.” (Heritage
Pacific Financial, LLC v. Monroy (2013) 215 Cal.App.4th
972, 1009 [internal quotations and citations omitted].)
Creyaufmiller seeks an hourly rate of $300.00.
Hu does not challenge Creyaufmiller’s
hourly rate.
Based on the court’s own experience and knowledge, as well
as on the experience and qualifications of counsel as set forth in Creyaufmiller’s declaration and Hu’s non-opposition,
the court finds that Creyaufmiller’s hourly
rate is appropriate.
b.                 
Reasonableness of Time Incurred 
“[T]he verified time statements of the attorneys, as
officers of the court, are entitled to credence in the absence of a clear
indication the records are erroneous.” (Horsford
v. Board of Trustees of California State University (2005) 132 Cal.App.4th
359, 396.)
Creyaufmiller
attests that he spent a total of 157 hours of attorney time on this matter,
which included “preparation of the complaint, responding to the
cross-complaint, mediation and settlement negotiations, extensive research of
the property records on a number of occasions, an extensive review of the
divorce records, a number of which could only be accessed at the courthouse in
Los Angeles, propounding and responding to discovery, both written and
depositions, preparation for trial on two separate occasions, trial and
post-trial briefing and argument, preparation [of] a statement of decision,
judgment and this motion,” as well as responding to service, lien and transfer
issues. (Creyaufmiller Decl., ¶ 11; see also ¶ 12).
Hu
takes issue with the fact that Creyaufmiller
did not attach any time sheets. Creyaufmiller was not required to do so.
Creyaufmiller’s declaration, which is made under penalty of perjury, describes
the work performed sufficiently enough to enable the court to make its own
evaluation as to the reasonableness of same. The court determines that the
amount of time incurred is reasonable.
Conclusion
The motion is granted, in the amount
requested.


