  Case Number:  22VECV01170    Hearing Date:   March 13, 2024    Dept:  T 22VECV01170 WENDY A. REAUX SCALZO vs HYUNDAITENTATIVE RULING ON MOTIONS IN LIMINEPLAINTIFF’S MOTIONS IN LIMINE1  402 hearing2  Grant as to all offers or demands post-litigation3  Grant4  Grant5  Deny, jury question6  Grant7  Deny, jury question8  Discuss9  402 hearing10 Grant11 Grant DEFENDANT’S MOTIONS IN LIMINE1  (1) Grant, (2) Grant, (3) 402 hearing, (4) All counsel may not argue contrary to the law2  Grant except there can be mention that the defendant is a corporation.3  Grant4  Grant5  Grant6  Grant, there can be no argument on the golden rule or attempts to appeal to juror’s concerns about their own treatment/self-interests or that of the community.  Jurors may not vote their conscience.  They are required to follow the law.  To suggest otherwise would encourage jury nullification, which is against the law.  The parties cannot argue or suggest that the jurors put themselves in plaintiff’s place. Jurors cannot vote their subjective judgment.  The court disagrees that counsel can argue that jurors are the conscience of the community, nor can counsel argue to “send a message”.  Regalado v. Callaghan, 207 Cal. Rptr. 3d 712 (Ct. App. 2016), the California Court of Appeal rejected reptile theory as improper argument.331).7  Deny, there can be mention of lemon law as that term in used in statute(s) but not that the vehicle is a lemon which has no legal meaning8  Hear argument9  Agency is a jury determination and can be argued but no opinion testimony.  The court will not make that determination as a matter of law.10 Grant11  The court will hear argument although it is inclined to grant this motion.  Consumer complaints are not the same as documented findings.12  Counsel are directed to only claim as damages those items allowed by law13  The court will hear argument14  Grant.  Plaintiff has not produced any evidence that defendant’s employees are obligated to know the provisions of the Song-Beverly Act. 15  It seems that this is an issue for a jury instruction.  If the court approves an instruction that defendant had an affirmative duty to act, then it can be argued.  But if there is no law that requires an affirmative duty to act, then defendant should be able to argue that they did not have an affirmative duty.  The issue of duty is for the court to determine.  The court will discuss this at the FSC.16  Grant as to events outside of the statute of limitations or for matters not the subject of this case.  For instance, if plaintiff came in for a flat tire repair, it would have no bearing on this case.  Similarly, if there was a problem with a cup holder, or the vent for the A/C, or any other problem that was repaired, they would not be relevant to this case.  Cumulative repairs which were successfully completed seem to be irrelevant.17  It depends.  If the person did not know something, then a motion to compel someone who did know should have been filed.  Plaintiff should be required to use the entire definition as set forth in the statute and not an abbreviated version which may be misleading:  “CCP section 2025.230: If the deponent named is not a natural person, the deposition notice shall describe with reasonable particularity the matters on which examination is requested. In that event, the deponent shall designate and produce at the deposition those of its officers, directors, managing agents, employees, or agents who are most qualified to testify on its behalf as to those matters to the extent of any information known or reasonably available to the deponent.”  This is similar to a motion to preclude evidence not produced in discovery in which there was no motion to compel inadequate responses.  The court will hear argument.18  If depo has taken place and inspection has taken place, deny. 