 Case Number:  23VECP00442    Hearing Date:   March 13, 2024    Dept:  T LAW OFFICES OF ROSALINE L. ZUKERMAN, A PROFESSIONAL CORPORATION, et al. vs VLADISLAV SHULIKO 23VECP00442  [TENTATIVE] ORDER:  Plaintiff/Judgment Creditor’s Unopposed Amended Motion for an Assignment Order and Charging Order is GRANTED in Part and DENIED in Part.  The request for a charging order against Defendant Vladislav Shuliko’s interest in LA Dorm LLC is DENIED WITHOUT PREJUDICE.  The request for an assignment order against Defendant Vladislav Shuliko’s interest in both LA Dorm LLC and W-Stands Inc. is GRANTED.IntroductionPlaintiff/Judgment Creditor Julia Gandelsman (Plaintiff) filed an amended motion for an assignment order and a charging order to enforce the judgment entered against Defendant/Judgment Debtor Vladislav Shuliko (Defendant).  Plaintiff requested an assignment order and a charging order as to Defendant’s interest in any monies paid by LA Dorm, LLC and W-Stands, Inc.  Defendant’s opposition was due February 29, 2024 but none was filed.DiscussionTo reach a debtor's partnership or limited liability company’s (LLC) interest, the judgment creditor must obtain a court order charging those interests with the amount of the judgment. (Code Civ. Proc., secs.  699.720(a)(2) and 708.310; see also Evans v. Galardi (1976) 16 Cal.3d 300, 310.)  A lien on a judgment debtor's interest in a partnership or LLC is created by service of a notice of motion for a charging order on the judgment debtor and either (1) all partners or the partnership, or (2) all members or the LLC.  (Code Civ. Proc., sec. 708.320(a).)  Because the noticed motion creates a lien upon the debtor’s LLC interest, the noticed motion should be served upon the LLC.  The proof of service (POS) does not show service of the motion upon LA Dorm LLC.  It is noted that Defendant, a managing member of the LA Dorm LLC was served with the noticed motion but the POS does not identify Defendant’s status as the managing member of LA Dorm LLC.  Without proper notice and opportunity to be heard, the motion for a charging order as to Defendant’s interest in LA Dorm LLC is improper. Plaintiff’s motion for a charging order as to Defendant’s interest in LA Dorm LLC is DENIED WITHOUT PREJUDICE.All or part of a right to payment due, or to become due, may be ordered assigned whether or not such right is conditioned upon future developments.  (Code Civ. Proc., sec. 708.510(a).)  Plaintiff submitted evidence as to Defendant’s executive position at W-Stands, Inc. and managing membership at LA Dorm LLC.  A motion for assignment order need only be served upon the judgment debtor via personal service or mail service.  The POS sufficiently showed mail service of the motion upon Defendant.  Defendant was provided sufficient notice and opportunity to be heard but did not oppose the motion.  The motion is persuasive as to the relief requested against Defendant’s interest in W-Stands, Inc. and LA Dorm LLC. The motion for assignment order as to Defendant’s interest in W-Stands, Inc. and LA Dorm LLC is GRANTED. The Rutter’s Enforcement of Judgment has a section on whether the Court has authority to order the assignment outright or order the debtor to assign his interest.  (Rutter’s Enforcing Judgments and Debts Practice Guide, Ch. 6, par. 6:1422.5-1422.6.)  The Rutter Guide held the opinion that the Court has authority to  order the assignment outright with which this court agrees.Plaintiff’s Proposed Order as written seems to order Defendant to assign his rights.  The court would like a revised Proposed Order to show that that the Court is ordering Defendant’s interests assigned to Plaintiff.IT IS SO ORDERED, CLERK TO GIVE NOTICE.