 Case Number:  23STCV07896    Hearing Date:   February 13, 2024    Dept:  55 NATURE OF PROCEEDINGS:  Motion of Plaintiff for Preliminary
Injunction for Possession of Property.
 
The motion is denied.
The Court grants Defendant Mural Media, LLC 401k Plan’s
request for judicial notice of deed-related documents.  E.g., Fontenot v. Wells Fargo Bank, N.A.
(2011) 198 Cal.App.4th 256, 265.
 
BACKGROUND
In this case, Plaintiff LINDA MAULTSBY seeks damages against
MARCEL BRUETSCH, CAPITALBENEFIT, INC., MURAL MEDIA, LLC 401k PLAN, S.B.S. TRUST
DEED NETWORK, PENSCO Trust Company LLC, Custodian FBO Sylla McClellan IRA:
080000001321, JAMES C. ELKINS, MELINDA J. ELKINS, ELKINS FAMILY REVOCABLE TRUST
OF 2002, LAWRENCE C. HENIG, D.D.S., INC. (“Defendants”) who allegedly fraudulently
induced Plaintiff into loan modification agreements regarding the loan on
Plaintiff’s apartment property at 4757 S. Mansfield, Los Angeles, CA 90026 (the
“Property”). 
Plaintiff moves for a preliminary injunction to
preclude Defendants from prosecuting evictions against Plaintiff related to the
Property. Defendant MURAL MEDIA, LLC 401K PLAN opposes the motion.
LEGAL STANDARDS
The elements generally applicable to a request for
injunctive relief are:
1.     
A reasonable probability that plaintiffs
will prevail on the merits of the claims in the case; and
2.     
A balancing of the hardships (i.e., plaintiffs are likely to suffer
more injury from denying the injunction motion than defendants are likely to
suffer from granting the motion).
Baypoint Mortg. Corp. v. Crest Premium
Real Estate etc. Trust (1985) 168 Cal.App.3d 818, 824. An
application for a preliminary injunction must be based upon sufficient
evidence. CCP §527(a); Bank of America v. Williams (1948) 89 Cal.App.2d
21, 29. 
ANALYSIS
Defendant contends that Plaintiff cannot show a
reasonable probability of prevailing on the merits of her claims because she executed
five agreements to “release” all potential claims, known and unknown, against
Defendant and its co-lenders related to the subject loan, its enforcement, the Property,
the servicing of the loan, and the “foreclosure process.” Skrbina v. Fleming
Companies (1996) 45 Cal.App.4th 1353, 1366 (“In general, a written release
extinguishes any obligation covered by the release’s terms, provided it has not
been obtained by fraud, deception, misrepresentation, duress, or undue
influence”). Plaintiff has not addressed the release issue.
The Court concurs that the existence of the releases militates
against a finding that Plaintiff has a reasonable probability on the merits of
her claims, which relate to the loan for the Property. Similarly, the Court
agrees that Plaintiff’s failure to tender the debt on the Property (which
Plaintiff also does not dispute) militates against a finding that she has a
reasonable likelihood of prevailing on her claims challenging the validity of the
foreclosure sale of the Property. 
Plaintiff’s motion also contends she has a likelihood
of prevailing on her claims because Defendant Mural Media does not have
standing to originate the loan for the Property or foreclose on the Property.
But Plaintiff does not present sufficient evidence to support this contention. The
declarations of Plaintiff and Ron Wilkinson contain minimal information and
certainly nothing related to Defendant Mural Media’s corporate status. While
Plaintiff filed a verified Second Amended Complaint that is admissible for
purposes of a motion for preliminary injunction, it contains factual
allegations lacking in evidentiary foundation, such as the following excerpt:
During the time of the
modifications, unbeknownst to Plaintiffs that Defendant Mural Media continued
to be a suspended limited liability company in the State of California. In
addition, the Defendant Lenders, in particular, Defendant Pensco, Defendant
Lawrence Henig, D.D.S., Inc. were both terminated corporations in the State of
California. 
(Second Amended Complaint, ¶ 12.)
This thin evidentiary record does not support Plaintiff’s
contention, and thus also militates against a finding that Plaintiff has a
reasonable probability of prevailing on her claims. 
Because Plaintiff has not established a reasonable
probability of prevailing on her claims, as discussed above, her request for a
preliminary injunction fails even before proceeding to the second step of
considering the balance of hardships. In any event, given the poor state of Plaintiff’s
evidence, the Court does not find that Plaintiff is likely to suffer more
injury from denying, than Defendants would suffer from granting the motion.  
CONCLUSION
The motion is denied.
 