 Case Number:  22STCV21658    Hearing Date:   June 4, 2024    Dept:  48  
 
 
SUPERIOR
COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



COMMERCIAL WASTE SERVICES, INC., 
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
 
IPL INC.,
 
                        Defendant.


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


     
  CASE NO.: 22STCV21658
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER GRANTING PLAINTIFF’S MOTION
  TO STRIKE
 
Dept. 48
8:30 a.m.
June 4, 2024



 
On
July 5, 2022, Plaintiff Commercial Waste Services Inc. filed this action against
Defendant IPL Inc. (“IPL”), alleging breach of written contract and breach of implied
warranty.
After
IPL’s demurrer was overruled, “IPL North America Inc., erroneously named as IPL
Inc.” (“IPL NA”) filed an answer.
On
October 23, 2023, Plaintiff filed a motion to strike IPL NA’s answer.
Plaintiff’s
and IPL NA’s requests for judicial notice are granted.
DISCUSSION
Plaintiff
argues that IPL has forfeited its right to do business in California, and IPL NA
improperly filed an answer without seeking leave to intervene in the action under
Code of Civil Procedure section 387.  IPL
NA argues that it is IPL’s assignee and successor in interest.
A.        A Motion to Strike is Procedurally Proper.
IPL
NA argues that this motion is procedurally improper because “Plaintiff does not
identify any violation of a court rule or Court Order,” lack of capacity to defend
is an issue for summary judgment, and California has a longstanding policy of deciding
cases on the merits.  (Opposition at pp. 4-5.)
A
party may file a motion to strike an answer. 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 435, subds. (a)(2), (b)(1).)  The court may, upon a motion or at any time in
its discretion: (1) strike out any irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted
in any pleading; or (2) strike out all or any part of any pleading not drawn or
filed in conformity with the laws of California, a court rule, or an order of the
court.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 436, subds. (a)-(b).)
According
to IPL NA, “[t]he only law of the state that [Plaintiff] arguably references is
that a forfeited entity cannot defend itself.” 
(Opposition at p. 4.)  IPL NA admits
that “IPL, Inc. is a forfeited entity,” but “[t]hat entity did not, however, file
the Answer here.  IPL NA did, and that entity
is in good standing with the State of California.”  (Id. at p. 5.)
Plaintiff
does not contend that IPL NA is a forfeited entity that lacks capacity to defend
itself.  Rather, Plaintiff argues that IPL
NA is a non-party who filed an answer that does not conform with the laws governing
intervention by a non-party.  (Motion at pp.
4-6.)  A motion to strike is therefore an
appropriate method of challenging this alleged non-conformity.
Additionally,
IPL NA purports to file the answer on behalf of IPL as its assignee.  Had IPL filed an answer itself, that answer
would also be subject to a motion to strike for being filed in violation of
California law prohibiting defense of an action by a suspended or forfeited
entity.  (See Motion at pp. 7-8.)  This is another reason why the Court finds
that a motion to strike is appropriate for consideration.
B.        Assignee IPL NA is Subject to the Same
Limitations as Forfeited Entity Assignor IPL, Including the Inability to Defend
this Action.
It
is undisputed that IPL, a Canadian corporation, cannot defend itself in this action.  On August 25, 2020, the California Secretary of
State forfeited IPL’s right to do business in California.  (Motion, RJN, Ex. 2.)  “[A] suspended corporation may not prosecute or
defend an action in a California court.” 
(Timberline, Inc. v. Jaisinghani (1997) 54 Cal. App. 4th 1361, 1365
(Timberline).)
IPL
NA argues that it is IPL’s successor in interest and assignee to its North American
operations, and it contracted for IPL’s rights and obligations.  (Opposition at pp. 5-7.)  This is also not in dispute.  In October 2020, IPL merged into IPL Plastics
Inc., IPL Plastics Inc. assigned all of its liability and obligations with respect
to IPL’s North American operations to IPL St. Damien Inc., and IPL St. Damien Inc.
underwent two name changes—resulting in IPL NA being the assignee and successor
in interest to IPL.  (Darling Decl. ¶¶ 3-7.)
Plaintiff
argues that“[d]espite the fact that IPL North America has active status, it must
suffer the consequences of IPL Inc.’s forfeited status,” including the loss of
the ability to defend this action.  (Reply
at p. 7; see id. at pp. 4-7.)
An
assignee is subject to all claims and defenses existing at or before the notice
of the assignment.  (Cal-Western Business
Services, Inc. v. Corning Capital Group (2013) 221 Cal.App.4th 304, 310-312
(Cal-Western).)  IPL could no longer
do business in California as of August 25, 2020.  The mergers, assignments, and name changes that
led to IPL NA being the assignee of IPL occurred later, in October 2020.  (Darling Decl. ¶¶ 3-6.)  IPL NA is correct that it contracted for IPL’s
rights and obligations.  (See Opposition at
p. 6.)  Among those was IPL’s liability as
a forfeited entity in California.   Accordingly,
because IPL lacked capacity to defend itself in court at the time of notice of the
assignment, IPL NA (as IPL’s assignee) is subject to the same limitation.  (See Cal-Western, supra, 221 Cal.App.4th
at p. 312; Wanke, Industrial, Commercial, Residential, Inc. v. AV Builder Corp.
(2020) 45 Cal.App.5th 466, 477 [discussing Cal-Western].)
 “[I]f the corporation’s status only comes to light
during litigation, the normal practice is for the trial court to permit a short
continuance to enable the suspended corporation to effect reinstatement (by paying
back taxes, interest and penalties) to defend itself in court.”  (Timberline, supra, 54 Cal. App. 4th at
p. 1366.)
Here,
however, a continuance would be futile.  IPL
no longer exists and does not have any assets. 
(Darling Decl. ¶ 9.)  The Court therefore
declines to continue the hearing on this motion.  There does not appear to be any way for IPL to
revive its status so that IPL NA (as assignee) can defend this action on behalf
of IPL.
CONCLUSION
The
motion to strike is GRANTED.  The Court orders
the answer filed by IPL NA on September 29, 2023 STRICKEN.
Moving
party to give notice.
Parties
who intend to submit on this tentative must send an email to the Court at SMCDEPT48@lacourt.org
indicating intention to submit.  If all parties
in the case submit on the tentative ruling, no appearances before the Court are
required unless a companion hearing (for example, a Case Management Conference)
is also on calendar.
 
        
Dated this 4th day of June 2024
 




 


 




 


Hon. Thomas D. Long
Judge of the Superior
  Court
 




 