 Case Number:  21STCP04124    Hearing Date:   June 4, 2024    Dept:  48 SUPERIOR
COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



CASA MEXICO ENTERPRISES, LLC, 
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
 
ERIC GERARDO LEYVA-BUCCIO, et al.,
 
                        Defendant.


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


     
  CASE NO.: 21STCP04124
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER CONTINUING MOTION TO SEAL
 
Dept. 48
8:30 a.m.
June 6, 2024



 
On
May 6, 2024, Cross-Defendant Oscar de la Hoya filed a redacted Trial Brief and redacted
supporting documents.  Cross-Defendant also
filed a motion to seal.
A
record must not be filed under seal without a court order, and a party requesting
that a record be filed under seal must file a motion or an application for an order
sealing the record.  (California Rules of
Court, rule 2.551(a)-(b).)  The party requesting
sealing must also file a public redacted version and lodge conditionally under seal
with the court a complete, unredacted version. 
(California Rules of Court, rule 2.551(b)(4)-(b)(5).)
The Court may order that a record be filed under seal
only if it finds that (1) there is an overriding interest that overcomes the right
of public access to the record, (2) the overriding interest supports sealing the
record, (3) a substantial probability exists that the overriding interest will be
prejudiced absent sealing, (4) the proposed sealing is narrowly tailored, and (5)
no less restrictive means exists to achieve the overriding interest.  (California Rules of Court, rule 2.550(d).)  A motion seeking an order sealing records must
be accompanied by a declaration containing facts sufficient to justify the sealing.  (California Rules of Court, rule 2.551(b)(1).)
Additionally,
if a motion requires reliance on confidential and/or lodged filings, the unredacted
versions must be emailed to smcdept48@lacourt.org, in accordance with Department
48’s Courtroom Information, available on the court’s website (www.lacourt.org).
Cross-Defendant
purported to lodge his Trial Brief and Appendix of Exhibits conditionally under
seal.  Cross-Defendant did not provide unredacted
electronic copies.  Because the documents
were not properly lodged with the Court, the Court cannot review them in connection
with the request for sealing.
Even
if Cross-Defendant had followed the proper procedures, the accompanying declaration
does not contain facts sufficient to justify
the sealing.  (See California Rules of Court,
rule 2.551(b)(1).)  Counsel’s declaration
states only that the motion to seal was filed “in order to protect the personal
privacy rights of himself, [Cross-Complainant] Ruccione, and of third parties to
this Action.  The overriding interest overcomes
the right to public access to said records in that the public disclosure of these
documents may infringe upon the privacy rights of Defendants and third parties to
this Action.”  (Troupson Decl. ¶ 6.)  Counsel also quotes a federal case from the Seventh
Circuit to support sealing records that contain “highly sensitive and potentially
embarrassingly personal information.”  (Troupson
Decl. ¶ 7.)  The motion contains similar conclusory
statements about privacy interests, with the only specific fact being third parties’
“phone numbers, email addresses and private personal information.”  (Motion at p. 4.)  Because Cross-Defendant did not properly lodge
the unredacted documents, the Court cannot even independently assess the nature
of the personal information and privacy rights.
Based on the current record, the Court is inclined to
deny the motion.  However, the Court will
continue the hearing to allow Cross-Defendant to supplement the motion.
The
Hearing on Motion to Seal Trial Brief and Exhibits Thereto is CONTINUED July 11,
2024 at 8:30 a.m. in Department 48 at Stanley Mosk Courthouse.
No
later than five court days before the hearing, Cross-Defendant is ordered to (1)
electronically lodge the unredacted documents in accordance with Department 48’s
procedures, and (2) file a supplemental declaration with facts sufficient to justify the sealing.
If
Cross-Defendant does not follow this Department’s procedures for lodging or does
not file a supplemental declaration that satisfies all requirements for sealing, the Court will strike the Trial Brief
and related documents for not conforming with the California Rules of Court and
this order.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 436,
subd. (b).)
Moving
party to give notice.
Parties
who intend to submit on this tentative must send an email to the Court at SMCDEPT48@lacourt.org
indicating intention to submit.  If all parties
in the case submit on the tentative ruling, no appearances before the Court are
required unless a companion hearing (for example, a Case Management Conference)
is also on calendar.
 
        
Dated this 4th day of June 2024
 




 


 




 


Hon. Thomas D. Long
Judge of the Superior
  Court
 




 