  Case Number:  23CHCV00243    Hearing Date:   December 19, 2024    Dept:  F49 


Dept.
  F49




Date:
  12/19/24




Case
  Name: Destiny Leon v. Jimmy Deans, James Axotis, and Does 1 through 100




Case No.
  23CHCV00243



 
LOS ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT
NORTH VALLEY DISTRICT
DEPARTMENT F49
 

DECEMBER 19, 2024
 

MOTION TO COMPEL SECOND DEPOSITION
OF DEFENDANT ISAHI SIERRA; REQUEST FOR SANCTIONS

Los Angeles Superior
Court Case No. 23CHCV00243

 
Motion
filed: 10/18/24
 
MOVING PARTY: Plaintiff Destiny Leon
RESPONDING PARTY: Defendant Isahi Sierra
NOTICE: OK.
 
RELIEF
REQUESTED: An
order from this Court to compel Defendant Isahi Sierra to attend a second
deposition, and to impose monetary sanctions in the amount of $5,400.00 against
Defendants Isahi Sierra, Jimmy Deans, and their counsel of record.
 
TENTATIVE
RULING: The
motion is GRANTED. The Request for Monetary Sanctions is GRANTED IN PART. 
 
BACKGROUND
 
On January 30, 2023, Plaintiff Destiny Leon (“Plaintiff” or
“Leon”) initiated this action against Defendants Jimmy Deans (“Deans”), James
Axotis, Isahi Sierra (“Sierra”) (collectively, “Defendants”), and Does 1
through 100, alleging the following causes of action: (1) Sexual Harassment –
Hostile Work Environment in Violation of FEHA, (2) Discrimination in Violation
of FEHA, (3) Failure to Prevent Harassment and Discrimination in Violation of
FEHA, (4) Negligent Supervision and Retention, and (5) Wrongful Constructive
Termination in Violation of Public Policy. Subsequently, Defendants Deans and
Sierra filed their Answers to the Complaint on March 29, 2023, and April 7,
2024, respectively. On May 15, 2024, Plaintiff dismissed Defendant James Axotis.
 
On October 18, 2024, Plaintiff filed
the instant Motion to Compel Second Deposition of Defendant Isahi Sierra (the
“Motion”). Subsequently, Defendant Sierra filed an Opposition to the Motion.
 
No Reply papers have been received by
the Court. 
 
ANALYSIS
 
“If a deponent fails to answer any question or to produce any
document, electronically stored information, or tangible thing under the
deponent’s control that is specified in the deposition notice or a deposition
subpoena, the party seeking discovery may move the court for an order
compelling that answer or production.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.480, subd.
(a).)
 
“The
court shall impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with Section
2023.010) against any party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or
opposes a motion to compel an answer or production, unless it finds that the
one subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other
circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.” (Code Civ. Proc., §
2025.480, subd. (j).)
 
A.   
Procedural
Requirements
 
“This motion shall be
made no later than 60 days after the completion of the record of the
deposition, and shall be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration under
Section 2016.040.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.480, subd. (b).)
 
Here, counsel
for Plaintiff took the deposition of Defendant Sierra via Zoom on October 2,
2024. (Harmoush Decl. ¶ 9, Greenberg Decl. ¶ 4.) The Motion was filed on
October 18, 2024, which falls within the 60-day time limit mandated by Code of
Civil Procedure section 2025.480, subdivision (b).
 
Additionally,
the Court finds that the meet and confer requirements have been satisfied.
(Harmoush Decl. ¶¶ 4-5, Ex. “A.”)
 
Accordingly,
the Motion complies with the procedure requirements under Code of Civil
Procedure section 2025.480, subdivision (b).
 
B.    
Motion to
Compel Second Deposition of Defendant Isahi Sierra
 
Code of Civil Procedure section 2017.010 provides, in
pertinent part, “Unless otherwise limited by order of the court in accordance
with this title, any party may obtain discovery regarding any matter, not
privileged, that is relevant to the subject matter involved in the pending
action or to the determination of any motion made in that action, if the matter
either is itself admissible in evidence or appears reasonably calculated to
lead to the discovery of admissible evidence.” Misuses of the discovery process
include “[f]ailing to respond or to submit to an authorized method of
discovery[,]” and “[m]aking an evasive response to discovery.” (Code Civ.
Proc., ¶ 2023.010, subd. (d) and (f).)
 
Here, Plaintiff moves under Code of Civil Procedure section
2025.480, subdivision (a) to compel Defendant Sierra to submit to a second
deposition, arguing that Sierra engaged in inappropriate behavior and conduct,
and failed to truthfully and fully answer questions during the October 2, 2024,
Deposition. 
 
Plaintiff states that during the October 2, 2024,
deposition, Defendant Sierra purposefully evaded questions, delayed providing
answers, and willfully and maliciously refused to answer questions. (Harmoush ¶
9.) Moreover, Defendant Dean Axotis attempted to coach Sierra in his answers
and can be heard in the background on the deposition recording. (Id. ¶
10.) Defendant Dean Axotis repeatedly interrupted the deposition proceedings by
walking in and out of the room, turning on a television set, opening a refrigerator,
and interjecting comments in a rude and belligerent manner. (Ibid.)
Furthermore, Plaintiff claims that Defendant’s counsel inappropriately over
objected to questions and did nothing to control Defendant Sierra and Dean
Axotis’s evasive and unprofessional behavior during the deposition. (Mot. at p.
7.)
 
Furthermore, the certified copy of the Deposition
Transcripts confirms that Plaintiff’s counsel admonished Dean Axotis for being
present in the room and was trying to coach Defendant Sierra in the answer to
his questions. (Harmoush Decl. Ex. “B” at 18:4-8.) Plaintiff’s counsel further
admonished Defendant Sierra for his repeatedly vague and non-responsive
answers. (Id. at 24:10-25; 31:2; 55:20-56:1-25.) (See Mot. at p. 7.)
 
It is undisputed that inappropriate behavior of Defendant
Sierra and Dean Axotis during the October 2, 2024, deposition constituted
misuses of the discovery process.
 
The Court observes that a deponent under oath is obligated
to answer questions honestly and directly unless a valid objection is made. Furthermore,
a deponent is required to participate in depositions in good faith. Upon review
of the records, the Court finds that Defendant Sierra, along with Dean Axotis
acting as Defendant Jimmy Dean’s representative witness, engaged in inappropriate
behavior and conduct during the October 2, 2024, deposition, thereby impeding
Plaintiff’s rights to obtain discovery. 
 
As a remedy, Defendant Sierra shall be compelled to provide
responsive answers to the previously unaddressed questions during a second
deposition. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.480, subd. (a).)
 
Accordingly, the Court GRANTS the Motion to Compel Second
Deposition of Defendant Isahi Sierra.
 
C.   
Monetary
Sanctions
 
“The
court shall impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with Section
2023.010) against any party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or
opposes a motion to compel an answer or production, unless it finds that the
one subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other
circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.” (Code Civ. Proc., §
2025.480, subd. (j).)
 
“The
court may impose a monetary sanction ordering that one engaging in the misuse
of the discovery process, or any attorney advising that conduct, or both pay
the reasonable expenses, including attorney’s fees, incurred by anyone as a
result of that conduct. . . . If a monetary sanction is authorized by any
provision of this title, the court shall impose that sanction unless it finds
that the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or
that other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.” (Code
Civ. Proc., § 2023.030.)
 
Here,
Plaintiff seeks monetary sanctions against Defendants Sierra and Deans, and their
counsel of record, in the amount of $5,400.00. Dean Axotis appeared as a
representative witness on behalf of Defendant Deans. (Greenberg Decl. ¶ 4.) As a
corporate entity, Defendant Jimmy Deans is responsible for the misconduct of its
representative whom it designated to attend the October 2, 2024, deposition. 
 
The
Court finds that monetary sanctions against Defendants Sierra and Deans are
justified due to their egregious misuse of the discovery process. Defendant
Sierra purposefully evaded questions, provided vague and non-responsive
answers, and willfully disrupted the deposition. Similarly, Dean Axotis, acting
as a representative witness for Defendant Deans, engaged in unprofessional
conduct by repeatedly interrupting the deposition, coaching Sierra’s testimony,
and disregarding counsel’s instructions. As a corporate entity, Defendant Deans
is accountable for the misconduct of its designated representative, Dean
Axotis, who acted under its authority during the deposition. Such conducts
impeded Plaintiff’s right to obtain relevant discovery and undermined the
deposition’s integrity, in clear violation of discovery obligations under Code
of Civil Procedure. Accordingly, sanctions are warranted to address the
Defendants' improper conduct and to deter similar violations in the future.
 
However,
the Court concludes that sanctions against Defendants’ counsel are not
justified under the circumstances.
 
In
Opposition, Sierra’s counsel argues that the sanctions against the counsels Mr.
Danton Richardson, John W. Fagerholm, and Stephanie B. Greenberg (collectively,
“Defense Counsel”), of the Law Offices of John W. Fagerholm, Ltd. (“JFW Law”)
should be denied. Defense counsel argues that (1) they never opposed nor
objected to allowing a second deposition of Defendant Sierra; (2) they did not
willfully and/or purposefully engage in inappropriate or unethical conduct
contrary to California Code of Civil Procedure and Los Angeles Attorney Rules
of Professional Conduct; and (3) counsel Stephanie B. Greenberg at all times
acted in good faith during the deposition of Defendant Sierra and objected to
deposition questions as necessary in defense of Defendant Sierra. (Opp’n. at
pp. 4-5.)
 
The Court observes that Plaintiff’s own evidence contradicts
the claim that Defense Counsel did nothing to control Defendant Sierra and Dean
Axotis’s evasive and unprofessional behavior during the deposition. (Mot. at p.
7.) In Plaintiff’s counsel’s meet and confer letter dated October 10, 2024, it
states, 
 
“Despite your efforts to advise your clients to comply
with proper procedure, Mr. [Dean] Axotis: 
 
1. Crawled out of the room after being asked if he was
present, then reentered the room multiple times. 
 
2. Turned on the TV in the room, which displayed live
security camera footage of their business, distracting Mr. Sierra during
questioning. 
 
3. Interfered by coaching Mr. Sierra, advising him on how to
answer specific questions, and even instructing me to refer back to exhibits,
only to be proven incorrect. 
 
4. Shouted at counsel and disregarded your instructions to
refrain from speaking or influencing Mr. Sierra’s testimony. . . . 
 
Throughout the deposition, you made numerous attempts to
control your clients and advised them to stop interfering and to provide
uncoached testimony. However, they repeatedly ignored your guidance. Their disregard for your
instructions and the established deposition procedures has forced you to motion
to withdraw from this case, marking them as clients who are not willing to
cooperate.” 
 
(Harmoush Decl. Ex. “A,” at pp 1-2.) (Underlines added.)
 
It is evident that Defense Counsel Stephanie B. Greenberg
acted in good faith, albeit unsuccessfully, in her efforts to control and
advise Defendant Sierra and Dean Axotis to cease interfering with the
deposition and to comply with proper procedure. Accordingly, the Court concludes
that sanctions are appropriately imposed solely on Defendants Sierra and Deans
alone, excluding their counsel.
 
Utilizing the lodestar approach, the Court determines the
total and reasonable amount of attorney’s fees and costs incurred for the work
performed in connection with the Motion to be $1,200.00, calculated based on a
reasonable hourly rate of $400.00 for three hours reasonably spent. 
 
Accordingly, Plaintiff’s request for monetary sanctions is
GRANTED IN PART.
 
CONCLUSION
 
Plaintiff
Destiny Leon’s Motion to Compel Second Deposition of Defendant Isahi Sierra is
GRANTED. 
 
Defendant
Isahi Sierra is ordered to attend the second deposition within 60 days.
Plaintiff Destiny Leon is to provide notice of the second deposition in
compliance with applicable code requirements. 
 
Plaintiff
Destiny Leon’s Request for Monetary Sanctions
is GRANTED IN PART.
 
Defendants Jimmy Deans and Isahi Sierra are ordered to jointly and severally
pay $1,200.00 in sanctions to Plaintiff Destiny Leon’s counsel of record.
 
Moving
party to give notice.