 Case Number:  23CHCV00390    Hearing Date:   March 6, 2024    Dept:  F47 Dept. F47
Date: 3/6/24                                                                     
TRIAL DATE: 12/2/24
Case #23CHCV00390
 
MOTION FOR
PROTECTIVE ORDER 
 
Motion filed on 10/4/23.
 
MOVING PARTY: Defendant Ford Motor Company
RESPONDING PARTY: Plaintiff Omar Maldonado Gonzalez
NOTICE: ok
 
RELIEF REQUESTED: An order
entering the protective order requested by Defendant Ford Motor Company
applicable to the production of materials to Plaintiff Omar Maldonado
Gonzalez’s Requests for Production of Documents in this matter.  

 

RULING: The motion is granted, in part, and
denied, in part, as set forth below.   
 
SUMMARY
OF FACTS & PROCEDURAL HISTORY
 
This
action arises out of a warranty contract Plaintiff Omar Maldonado Gonzalez
(Plaintiff ) entered with Defendant Ford Motor Company (Ford) on 4/19/22
regarding a 2019 Ford Explorer (the Vehicle). 
(Complaint ¶15).  Plaintiff
alleges that “[d]efects and nonconformities to warranty manifested themselves
within the applicable express warranty period” which “substantially impair the
use, value and/or safety of the Subject Vehicle.”  (Complaint ¶¶16-17).
 
Plaintiff
alleges that he delivered the Vehicle to Defendant Sunrise Ford of North
Hollywood (Sunrise Ford) for repair on numerous occasions and that Sunrise Ford
breached its duty to use ordinary care and skill by failing to properly store,
prepare and repair the Vehicle in accordance with industry standards which was
a proximate cause of Plaintiff’s damages. 
(Complaint ¶¶28-31).    
 
On 2/10/23, Plaintiff filed this action against Ford
for Violation of Song-Beverly Act – Breach of Express Warranty and against
Sunrise Ford for Negligent Repair.  On
5/19/23, Plaintiff served Ford with Requests for Production of Documents, Set
1. (See 2/23/24 Minute Order, p.2). 
On 6/21/23, Ford served  unverified responses to the requests.  Id. 
On 7/11/23, Ford served a verification. 
Id.  
 
In response to certain of the document requests, Ford
agreed to produce certain documents pursuant to a non-existent protective
order.  After meet and confer efforts
failed to resolve the issues regarding a protective order and after Plaintiff
filed a motion to compel further responses to certain of the document requests,
Ford filed and served the instant motion seeking an order entering the
protective order requested by Ford applicable to the production of materials in
response to Plaintiff’s Requests for Production of Documents in this matter.  Plaintiff has opposed the motion and Ford has
filed a reply to the opposition.  
 
On 2/23/24, the Court granted Plaintiff’s motion to
compel further responses to Requests for Production of Documents and ordered
responses due within 30 days of the hearing on this motion.  (See 2/23/24 Minute Order, p.4).
 
ANALYSIS 
 
As noted in the Court’s ruling on Plaintiff’s Motion to
Compel Further Responses to Requests for Production of Documents, Ford had the
burden of obtaining Plaintiff’s agreement to enter a protective order or to
file a motion for a protective order before serving its responses to the
document requests indicating that production would be pursuant to such an order.  (See 2/23/24 Minute Order, p.3 citing
CCP 2031.060).  Despite Ford’s failure to
promptly move for a protective order in response to the document requests as
required, Plaintiff agreed to enter the Los Angeles Superior Court (LASC) Model
Protective Order and have the documents produced pursuant thereto.  (See Lopez Decl. ¶2; 2/23/24 Minute
Order, p.3).  Ford now seeks to modify
the LASC Model Protective Order in certain respects and Plaintiff does not
agree with the modifications.  
 
The Court finds that Ford has made a sufficient showing
that certain documents responsive to Plaintiff’s requests for production
contain confidential, proprietary or trade secret information and materials
which warrant protection.  (See
Doss Decl.).  However, the Court does not
find that the majority of Ford’s proposed amendments/modifications to the LASC
Model Protective Order are warranted.  (See
Biemann Decl., Ex.G ¶¶7, 8, 21)
 
The LASC Model Protective Order already provides that use
of the documents is limited to “only for purposes of preparing for, conducting,
participating in the conduct of, and/or prosecuting and/or defending the
Proceeding, and not for any business or other purpose whatsoever.”  (LASC Model Protective Order, ¶8).  
 
The Court finds that modifying the definition of
“affiliated attorneys” to attorneys in the same firm as the attorneys of record
would place unnecessary limitations on the parties and counsel.  (See Biemann Decl., Ex.G ¶7.b.).  
 
The Court finds that modifying the LASC Model Protective
Order to essentially require all of the employees of Plaintiff’s counsel’s firm
to sign the order is also unwarranted and unduly burdensome.  (Biemann Decl., Ex.G ¶7.b.).  
 
Similarly, the Court finds that Ford has failed to
establish that the procedure in place for protecting information disclosed to
potential mock jurors is insufficient. 
The LASC Model Protective Order already requires mock jurors to sign the
Exhibit A attachment which provides their identifying information.  (See Biemann Decl., Ex.G ¶7.f.).
 
The Court finds that the addition of paragraphs regarding
posting, selling, publicizing, etc. documents subject to the protective order
are unnecessary because, as noted above, the LASC Model Protective Order
already limits the use of such documents/material to the preparation of,
conducting, participating in and/or prosecuting and/or defending this action”
and specifically precludes the use of such documents/materials for any business
or other purpose whatsoever.  (Biemann
Decl., Ex.G ¶8).
 
The Court finds the proposed modification to paragraph 21
unwarranted as Plaintiff’s counsel should be permitted to retain a complete
copy of their file.  Additionally, the
LASC Model Protective Order provides that such retention is to be in compliance
with the protective order.  (Biemann
Decl., Ex.G ¶21).
 
The Court notes the opposition does not specifically
address Ford’s proposed modifications to paragraph 7.d. (which extends access
to and/or disclosure of Confidential Materials designated as “Confidential” to
“videographers, as well as litigation support consultants and vendors retained
by the Parties to provide litigation support services (e.g. photocopying,
electronic discovery, videotaping, translating, preparing exhibits)) and paragraph
7.g. (which precludes disclosure of such documents/materials to experts or
consultants currently employed by an automobile manufacturer competitor of
Ford) of the LASC Model Protective Order. 
(See Opposition, generally). 
The Court finds such modifications to be reasonable.      
 
CONCLUSION
 
The request for a protective order is granted.  The Court finds that the LASC Model
Protective, with the modifications proposed by Ford to paragraph 7.d. and g.,
is sufficient to protect the interests of the parties in this action.  
 
As such, Ford is ordered to prepare and submit a proposed
Protective Order in accordance with the foregoing.  Dept. F47
Date: 3/6/24                                                                      
TRIAL DATE: 12/2/24
Case #23CHCV00390
 
MOTION TO
COMPEL FURTHER RESPONSES 
(Special
Interrogatories, Set 1)
 
Motion filed on 9/29/23.
 
MOVING PARTY: Plaintiff Omar Maldonado Gonzalez
RESPONDING PARTY: Defendant Ford Motor Company
NOTICE: ok
 
RELIEF REQUESTED: An order
compelling further responses to Plaintiff’s Special Interrogatories, Set 1,
numbers 45-48.  Additionally, Plaintiff
requests sanctions in the amount of $2,207.50 against Defendant Ford Motor
Company and its attorneys of records, Mortenson Taggart Adams LLP.

 

RULING: The request to compel further responses is
granted.  The request for sanctions is
denied.    
 
SUMMARY
OF FACTS & PROCEDURAL HISTORY
 
This
action arises out of a warranty contract Plaintiff Omar Maldonado Gonzalez
(Plaintiff ) entered with Defendant Ford Motor Company (Ford) on 4/19/22
regarding a 2019 Ford Explorer (the Vehicle). 
(Complaint ¶15).  Plaintiff
alleges that “[d]efects and nonconformities to warranty manifested themselves
within the applicable express warranty period” which “substantially impair the
use, value and/or safety of the Subject Vehicle.”  (Complaint ¶¶16-17).
 
Plaintiff
alleges that he delivered the Vehicle to Defendant Sunrise Ford of North
Hollywood (Sunrise Ford) for repair on numerous occasions and that Sunrise Ford
breached its duty to use ordinary care and skill by failing to properly store,
prepare and repair the Vehicle in accordance with industry standards which was
a proximate cause of Plaintiff’s damages. 
(Complaint ¶¶28-31).    
 
On 2/10/23, Plaintiff filed this action against Ford
for Violation of Song-Beverly Act – Breach of Express Warranty and against
Sunrise Ford for Negligent Repair.  On
5/19/23, Plaintiff served Ford with Special Interrogatories, Set 1. (Lopez Decl.
¶3, Exhibit A). On 6/21/23, Ford served  unverified responses to the requests.  (Lopez Decl. ¶4, Exhibit B). On 7/11/23, Ford
served a verification. (Lopez Decl. ¶4). 
 
Meet and confer efforts failed to resolve the issues
Plaintiff had with regard to Ford’s responses to certain of the interrogatories.
(Lopez Decl. ¶¶5-11, Ex.C-G).  During the
meet and confer process, the parties agreed to extend the deadline to file a
motion to compel further responses to 9/29/23. 
(Lopez Decl., Ex.D).
 
Therefore, on 9/29/23, Plaintiff filed and served the
instant motion seeking an order compelling further responses to Plaintiff’s Special
Interrogatories, Set 1, numbers 45-48.  Additionally,
Plaintiff requests sanctions in the amount of $2,207.50 against Ford and its
attorneys of records, Mortenson Taggart Adams LLP.  Ford has opposed the motion and Plaintiff has
filed a reply to the opposition.   
 
ANALYSIS 
 
A party may obtain discovery regarding any matter, not
privileged, that is relevant to the subject matter involved in the action or to
the determination of any motion made in the action, if the matter itself is
admissible or appears reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of
admissible evidence.  See CCP
2017.010.  Doubts as to relevance are
generally resolved in favor of allowing discovery.  Colonial Life & Acc. Ins. Co.
(1982) 31 C3d 785, 790.
 
CCP 2030.300(a) provides:
 
“(a) On receipt of a response to interrogatories,
the propounding party may move for an order compelling a further response if
the propounding party deems that any of the following apply:
(1) An answer to a particular
interrogatory is evasive or incomplete.
(2) An exercise of the option to
produce documents under Section
2030.230 is unwarranted or the required specification of those
documents is inadequate.
(3) An objection to an
interrogatory is without merit or too general.”
 
The subject interrogatories ask Ford to state the
anticipated range for repairs per thousand vehicles sold at the time of the
release for 2019 Ford Explorer vehicles (No. 45); state the repairs per
thousand vehicles sold for 2019 Ford Explorer vehicles (No. 46); identify the
five symptoms with the highest repairs per thousand vehicles sold for 2019 Ford
Explorer vehicles, and the corresponding repairs per thousand vehicles sold
(No. 47); and identify the five components with the highest repairs per
thousand vehicles sold for 2019 Ford Explorer vehicles, and the corresponding
repairs per thousand vehicles sold (No. 48).  
 
To establish his claim under the Song-Beverly Act,
Plaintiff must prove, among other things, that the Vehicle contained a defect,
covered by Ford’s warranty, which substantially impaired its use, value, or
safety and which Ford was unable to repair after a reasonable number of
attempts.  See Civil Code 790 et
seq.; CACI No. 3201.  The information
sought in the subject interrogatories is relevant to Plaintiff’s claims because
it would tend to show whether a widespread defect or nonconformity, of the same
type that Plaintiff experienced, exists in these types of vehicles.  The information could also assist in refuting
Ford’s affirmative defenses which claim that Plaintiff and/or others misused or
abused the Vehicle or engaged in unauthorized or unreasonable use which caused the
problems with the Vehicle.  If a
substantial number of other owners of the same type of vehicle experienced the
same defects and nonconformities, such information would tend to show that the
defects claimed in Plaintiff’s Vehicle were not caused by misuse, abuse, or
unreasonable use.
 
Evidence as to how Ford handles consumer complaints is
also relevant to determining whether Ford willfully violated the Song-Beverly
Act which, if proven, would entitle Plaintiff to a civil penalty.  Civil Code 1794(c).  The information would show how many repairs Ford
anticipated with the 2019 Ford Explorer vehicles, whether the repairs exceeded
those expectations and, if so, to what degree. 
In combination with information showing the top five components and
symptoms at issue, if they are the same as the problems experienced by
Plaintiff,  Plaintiff could show that Ford
had knowledge about a widespread defect or nonconformity and still failed to
act. Such information is relevant to proving whether a civil penalty is
warranted because it would tend to show whether Ford made its determination not
to repurchase Plaintiff’s vehicle despite having information indicating that
these types of vehicles contained a defect or nonconformity.   See Lukather (2010) 181 CA4th
1041, 1051.
 
Although the request to compel further responses is
granted, the Court finds that sanctions against Ford and its counsel are not
warranted under the circumstances.  CCP
2030.300(d).  Standing alone, the subject
interrogatories, seem to be overbroad (one of the objections made by Ford) as
they do not seek information regarding any specific defects or nonconformities
in similar vehicles.  However, because
Plaintiff’s allegations in the complaint regarding the alleged defects in the
Vehicle are not specific (i.e., including but not limited to suspension), the
Court finds that the interrogatories requesting information regarding all
defects in Vehicles of the same year, make and model relevant to Plaintiff’s
claims.  (See Complaint ¶16).
 
CONCLUSION
 
The request to compel further responses is granted.  Further responses are due within 30
days.  The request for sanctions is
denied.          
 
 
 
 
 
 
  