 Case Number:  23STCV22726    Hearing Date:   May 20, 2024    Dept:  37 HEARING DATE:                 Monday, May 20, 2024
CASE NUMBER:                   23STCV22726
CASE NAME:                        DSS Risk Consultants, LLC v. ArentFox Schiff
LLP, et al. 
MOVING PARTY:                 Special
Appearing Defendant DB Nevada Trust
OPPOSING PARTY:             Plaintiff
DSS Risk Consultants, LLC
TRIAL DATE:                        Not
Set
PROOF OF SERVICE:           OK

                                                                                                                                                            

PROCEEDING:                      Motion
to Quash Summons
OPPOSITION:                        07
May 2024
REPLY:                                  13 May 2024
 
TENTATIVE:                         DBNT’s
Motion to Quash Service of Summons is denied. 

                                                                                                                                                            

 
Background
 
On September 19, 2023, DSS Risk
Consultants, LLC (“Plaintiff”) filed a Complaint against ArentFox Schiff LLP (“ArentFox”);
DSS Equity Holdings, Inc. (“DSS Equity”); 
DB Nevada Trust (“DBNT”); Dorna Brown, Trent Brown, and Does 1 to
50.  This action arises out of a dispute regarding escrow funds
alleged to have wrongfully been released by the escrow agent, ArentFox, to
Dorna Brown and her affiliates, DSS Equity and DBNT in violation of the
Membership Interest Purchase Agreement (“MIPA”) and the Escrow Agreement. 
 
The operative First Amended Complaint
(“FAC”) alleges six causes of action: (1) conversion, (2) breach of contract,
(3) breach of fiduciary duty, (4) violation of Fin. Code § 17414, (5) unjust
enrichment, and (6) violation of Bus. & Prof. Code § 17200 et
seq.  
 
On March 7, 2024, Defendant DBNT moved to quash the summons on the
basis that the court lacks personal jurisdiction over DBNT. Plaintiff opposes
the Motion. The matter is now before the court. 
 
motion to quash service of summons
 
I.         Legal Standard
CCP § 418.10(a) states: “A defendant, on or before the last
day of his or her time to plead or within any further time that the court may
for good cause allow, may serve or file a motion…[t]o quash service of summon
on the ground of lack of jurisdiction of the court over him or her.”¿¿¿¿¿ 
¿ 
When a defendant moves to quash service of process on
jurisdictional grounds, the plaintiff has the initial burden of demonstrating
facts justifying the exercise of jurisdiction.¿(State of Oregon v. Superior
Court (1994) 24 Cal.App.4th 1550, 1557.)¿If the plaintiff meets his or her
burden, the burden shifts to the defendant to demonstrate that the exercise of
jurisdiction would be unreasonable. (Buchanan v. Soto (2015) 241
Cal.App.4th 1353, 1362. [“When a motion to quash is properly brought, the
burden of proof is placed upon the plaintiff to establish the facts of
jurisdiction by a preponderance of the evidence.”].) This burden must be met by
competent evidence in affidavits and authenticated documentary evidence. (Jewish
Defense Org. v. Superior Court¿(1999) 72 Cal.App.4th 1045, 1055.) “A court
may exercise specific jurisdiction over a nonresident defendant only if: (1)
the defendant has purposefully availed himself or herself of forum benefits;
(2) the controversy is related to or arises out of the defendant’s contacts
with the forum; and (3) the assertion of personal jurisdiction would comport
with fair play and substantial justice.” (Snowey v. Harrah’s Entertainment,
Inc. (2005) 35 Cal.4th 1054, 1062.)¿¿ 
 
II.        Request for Judicial Notice
 
The court may
take judicial notice of records of any court of record of the United States.
(Evid. Code, § 452(d)(2).) However, the court may only judicially notice the
existence of the record, not that its contents are the truth. (Sosinsky v.
Grant (1992) 6 Cal.App.4th 1548, 1565.) 
 
Plaintiff
requests judicial notice of the following: 
 
1)    
July 11, 2023, Complaint in Brown v. Arent
Fox Schiff LLP, Case No. 2023CUPN011223, in the Superior Court of
California, County of Ventura, attached as Exhibit A. 
 
2)    
Defendants Arentfox Schiff LLP’s Objections and
Responses to Plaintiff’s Special Interrogatories, Set One, attached as Exhibit
B.
 
3)    
Notice of Acknowledgement of Receipt – Civil
signed by Todd A. Boock on behalf of DB Nevada Trust and others, attached as Exhibit
C. 
 
Plaintiff’s
requests for judicial notice is granted as to Exhibits A and C, but denied as
to Exhibit B as Plaintiff fails to show that Exhibit B is the proper subject of
judicial notice, the content of which is not subject to dispute. 
 
III.      Discussion
 
A.        Factual Summary
In 2021, Paul Phillips through his
company DSS Risk Consultants, LLC (“Plaintiff”) sought to buy the
risk-management company, Development Solutions and Services LLC from Dorna
Brown (“Ms. Brown”) and the entities DDS Equity and DBNT (the “Sellers”). (FAC
¶ 5.) 
Ira Deitsch, from the law firm ArentFox
Schiff LLP, represented sellers while Plaintiff, as the buyer, did not have
representation during the sale. (FACC ¶ 6.) Dorna Brown’s son, Trent Brown
(“Mr. Brown”), helped negotiate the sale. (FAC ¶ 7, Ex. A, pp. 12-13, § 3(h),
(“Post Closing Purchase Price Adjustment”).) ArentFox also served as the escrow
agent. (FAC ¶ 10.) 
 
The parties signed the Membership
Interest Purchase Agreement, which incorporated by reference to the Escrow
Agreement, the latter which provided that the $1,005,000.00 placed in escrow by Plaintiff would only be
disbursed either by court order or by joint payment instruction signed by both
Plaintiff and Ms. Brown or her attorneys. (FAC ¶¶ 9, 21, 22, Ex. A; Ex. B § 4(a)-(b);
Ex. C.) 
 
In
November 2022, Mr. Brown instructed ArentFox to disburse the escrow funds to
sellers and ArentFox did so, which Plaintiff alleges was a violation of the
Escrow Agreement. (FAC ¶¶ 14, 24, Ex. D at p. 4 [Nov. 3, 2022, email in which
Trent Brown wrote to the sellers’ atorney: “Ira — I will send over the
allocation instructions to show how to disburse the funds between [a third
party and] Dorna’s Trust.”]
 
In
April 2023, Plaintiff learned that the escrow funds had already been disbursed,
in violation of the Escrow Agreement. (FAC Ex. B.) Plaintiff
agreed to place $1,169,950
in escrow until the one-year valuation was complete, allowing the final sale
price to be calculated. (FAC ¶ 9.) 
 
Defendant DBNT now moves to quash the
service of summons on the basis that the court lacks personal jurisdiction over
DBNT. 
 
B.        Plaintiffs’
Burden to Prove Personal Jurisdiction 
 
In
opposition to a motion to quash based upon lack of personal jurisdiction,
complainants have the initial burden of filing evidence to show minimum
contacts. (See Muckle v. Superior Court (2002) 102 Cal.App.4th 218,
228.) “It is plaintiff's burden to prove facts of
jurisdiction by a preponderance of evidence.” (Cornelison v. Chaney
(1976) 16 Cal.3d 143, 155.) “This burden must be
met by competent evidence in affidavits and authenticated documentary evidence.
An unverified complaint may not be considered as an affidavit supplying
necessary facts.” (Ziller Electronics Lab GmbH v. Superior Court¿(1988)
206 Cal.App.3d 1222, 1233.)¿ 
 
Plaintiff
does not argue that the court has general jurisdiction over DBNT, but instead
argues that the court has specific jurisdiction over DBNT as the dispute
concerns the wrongful disbursement of the escrow funds. “A nonresident defendant is subject to specific personal jurisdiction
only if (1) the defendant purposefully availed itself of the benefits of
conducting activities in the forum state; (2) the controversy arises out of or
is related to the defendant's forum contacts; and (3) the exercise of jurisdiction
would be fair and reasonable.” (HealthMarkets, Inc. v. Superior Court¿(2009)
171 Cal.App.4th 1160, 1167.)¿¿ 
 
The parties do not dispute that the
MIPA was signed by the Plaintiff and the following parties as follows: 
 
DSS EQUITY HOLDINGS, INC., a
California corporation (“Seller”), (c) DSS RISK CONSULTANTS, LLC, a Nevada
limited liability company (“Buyer”), and (d) DB NEVADA TRUST [(“DBNT”)], a
Nevada trust of which Dorna Brown is the grantor and Preservation Trust Company
is the sole trustee, and CHARLES W. BATES (together, the “Shareholders” and,
individually, a “Shareholder”)
 
(FACC
Ex. A; Phillips Decl. Ex. A.) 
 
The
MIPA references the Escrow Agreement as follows: 
 
“Escrow Agent” means Arent Fox LLP. 
 
“Escrow Agreement” means the escrow agreement by
and among the Escrow Agent, Buyer and Seller. “Escrow Amount” means a cash
amount equal to thirty percent (30%) of what would be the Closing Purchase
Price if there were no Escrow Amount, which shall be available to secure
Buyer’s rights under Section 10. 
 
“Escrow Fund” means the escrow fund
established by the Escrow Agent pursuant to the Escrow Agreement, which shall
include the Escrow Amount and any interest and earnings thereon, as the same
may be disbursed from time to time in accordance with this Agreement and the
Escrow Agreement.
 
(FACC, Ex. A at p. 4 [bold original];
Phillips Decl. Ex. A at p. 4 [bold original].) Accordingly, only Plaintiff
(“buyer”) and DSS Equity (“seller”) were parties to the Escrow Agreement. (FACC
Ex. B; Phillips Decl. Ex. B.)
 
While DBNT is not a party to the Escrow
Agreement, Plaintiff’s evidence establishes that Ms. Brown is the grantor of
the DBNT, and Preservation Trust Company (“Preservation Trust”) is the sole
trustee of DBNT. This information is confirmed by DBNT. (Schoenblum Decl. ¶ 3,
Ex. A.)
 
DBNT was the shareholder of the
business that was sold, Development Solutions and Services, (Philips Decl. Ex.
A at p. p. 45
(Schedule 1) [listing the DB Nevada Trust as the owner of 40,000 of the sold
business’s 41,667 shares or about 96%]).) This fact is
confirmed by DBNT. (Scholenblum Decl. ¶ 2.) Charles W. Bates was the other
shareholder of Development Solutions and Services. (Philips Decl. Ex. A.)
 
Plaintiff also presents evidence that
Mr. Brown intended the escrow funds to be disbursed “between Charlie and
Dorna’s Trust.” (Phillips Decl. Ex. C.) Plaintiff presents evidence that
ArentFox admitted that on November 4, 2022, it disbursed the escrow fund “in the amount of $22,836.34 to
Charles W. Bates” and “ $982,153.66 to Preservation Trust Company.” (RJN Ex. B,
SROG No. 6.) ArentFox’s discovery responses are verified by counsel for
ArentFox. (CCP § § 2030.250.) Defendant DBNT fails to rebut
the representations by ArentFox that Preservation Trust received a portion of
the escrow funds at issue in this case. DBNT’s trustee, Jeffrey Schoenblum (Schoenblum),
asserts that it did not “disburse any related funds contained in an escrow
account” but fails to assert that it never received or held in trust the escrow
funds. (Schoenblum Decl. ¶ 4.) 
 
While
DBNT was not an agent to the Escrow Agreement, the Escrow Agreement provides
that in case of a wire transfer, the escrow funds were to be delivered as
follows: 
 
Seller Bank Name:                             Bank of America N.A.

Bank Address:                                    7315 Durango
Drive 
Las Vegas, NV 89113 
Domestic Routing #: 026009593 
Account #: 501026116493 
 
Name and Address of Recipient:        Preservation Trust Company, Inc. 
3753 Howard Hughes Parkway Las
Vegas, NV 89169 
F/C: DB Nevada Trust
 
(FACC
Ex. B at p. 2.) 
 
The
facts above support the finding that DBNT received a portion of the escrow
funds at issue, in violation of the terms set out in the Escrow Agreement. DBNT
fails to rebut this fact. The evidence reflects that DBNT’s role was not
limited to being a selling shareholder of Development Solutions
and Services, but also the entity that the sellers intended to be the recipient
of the escrow funds at issue. 
 
For specific jurisdiction,
“courts consider the relationship among the defendant, the forum and the litigation.”
(Snowey
v. Harrah’s Entertainment, Inc.
(2005) 35 Cal.4th 1054, 1062.) A court may exercise specific jurisdiction over
a nonresident defendant only if: “(1) the defendant has purposefully availed
himself or herself of forum benefits; (2) the controversy is related to or
arises out of the defendant’s contacts with the forum, and (3) the assertion of
personal jurisdiction would comport with fair play and substantial justice.” (Ibid.)¿¿¿ 
 
Here, the evidence supports the findings that the buyer and
sellers entered into a transaction for the purposes of selling Development
Solutions and Service, a California corporation whose majority shareholder was
DBNT. (Philips Decl. Ex. A at p. p.
45 (Schedule 1).) The buyer and seller signed the MIPA and agreed that
California law would govern said agreement.  (Phillips Decl. Ex. A.) The MIPA and Escrow
Agreement were negotiated “mainly” in California with Los Angeles listed as the
place of closing. (Phillips Decl. ¶ 9, Ex. A.) 
 
The MIPA created ongoing
obligations among the parties that were to take place in California. These
included calculating and apportioning the sold business's adjusted value to
determine any overpayment; challenging any valuation; raising objections to certain
representations; making final payments; and giving instructions to the escrow
agent.
 
(Phillips Decl. ¶ 11.) Moreover, the
sellers agreed that DBNT would be the entity that would receive the escrow
funds on the seller’s behalf. (Phillips Decl. ¶ 3, Ex. B, C.) Moreover, according to
Plaintiff, DBNT has refused to return the escrow funds. (Phillips Decl. ¶ 17.)
Therefore, the court finds that based on the facts above, DBNT purposefully
availed itself of the benefits of conducting business in California when its
agents negotiated for the sale of its business and agreed that deposit of the
escrow funds. (See Vons Companies, Inc. v. Seabest Foods, Inc. (1996) 14 Cal.4th 434, 446; Rivelli v. Hemm (2021)
67 Cal.App.5th 380, 399.)
 
C.        Defendants’
Burden to Show that Exercising Personal Jurisdiction Over Defendants Would
Offend Notions of Fair Play and Substantial Justice  
 
Once facts showing minimum contacts with the
forum state are established, the burden is on Defendants to demonstrate that
the exercise of jurisdiction would be unreasonable.¿ (See Burger King Corp.
v. Rudzewicz (1985) 471 U.S. 462, 476-477; Buchanan, supra,
241 Ca.App.4th at p. 1362.) “Courts may evaluate the burden on the defendant of
appearing in the forum, the forum state's interest in adjudicating the claim,
the plaintiff's interest in convenient and effective relief within the forum,
judicial economy, and ‘the shared interest of the several States in furthering
fundamental substantive social policies.’ ” (Vons Companies, Inc. v. Seabest
Foods, Inc. (1996) 14 Cal.4th 434, 446 quoting Burger King Corp., supra,
417 U.S. at p. 476.) “An otherwise valid exercise of personal jurisdiction ‘is
presumed to be reasonable.’¿[Citation.] Therefore, defendant ‘must present a
compelling case that the presence of some other considerations would render
jurisdiction unreasonable. Most such considerations usually may be accommodated
through means short of finding jurisdiction unconstitutional.’” (Integral
Development Corp., supra, 99 Cal.App.4th at 591 quoting Burger
King Corp., supra, 417 U.S. at 477.)¿ 
 
Defendant DBNT fails to show that it would be
unreasonable for California to exercise jurisdiction
over DBNT due to DBNT’s retention of the escrow funds at issue in this action.
DBNT fails to show that when Preservation Trust received the escrow funds from
ArentFox, it did so for its benefit or that of another entity rather than as a
trustee acting for the exclusive benefit of DBNT. 
 
For this reason, the court finds that exercising jurisdiction over DBNT would not offend traditional
notions of fair play and substantial justice. 
 
As
to the other arguments raised by Plaintiff, the court finds they are not
dispositive on the issue of jurisdiction. Plaintiff fails to show or cite any
legal authority to support the conclusion that when counsel for DBNT accepted
service for DBNT, DBNT waived the right to challenge personal jurisdiction.
(Boock Supp. Decl. ¶ 7, Ex. 2.) Moreover, while DBNT’s motion is late, the
language of CCP § 418.10 is not mandatory and nothing in section 418.10
suggests that DBNT waiver the right to challenge personal jurisdiction by
failing to timely file a motion to quash. Section 418.10 also has a “good
cause” provision that allows the court discretion to consider untimely motions
to quash. (See Air Machine Com SRL v. Superior Court (2010) 186
Cal.App.4th 414, 421 [Appellate court exercised its discretion to
consider a motion
to quash matter service of summons raised when raised for the first time on
appeal where application of statute at issue involved a question of law only,
and the facts at issue were not in dispute].) Here, the Supplemental
Declaration of Todd A. Boock explains why DBNT delayed in bringing this Motion.
(Boock Supp. Decl. ¶¶ 6- 10, Ex. 2.) 
 
Lastly,
the court did not consider if DBNT’s “appearance” in the Ventura action, Brown v. Arent Fox Schiff LLP, Case No. 2023CUPN011223, in
the Superior Court of California, County of Ventura, barred DBNT’s right to
challenge jurisdiction in this action as counsel for DBNT present evidence that
DBNT’s inclusion in that suit was without its consent and DBNT has been
dismissed as a party. (Boock Decl. ¶¶ 2-5, 11, Ex. 1; Schoenblum Supp. Decl. ¶¶
2-4.) 
 
Based
on the foregoing, DBNT’s Motion to Quash based on lack of personal jurisdiction
is denied.  
 
Conclusion
 
DBNT’s
Motion to Quash Service of Summons is denied. 
 