  Case Number:  23STCV14660    Hearing Date:   May 20, 2024    Dept:  37 HEARING DATE:                 Monday, May 20, 2024
CASE NUMBER:                   23STCV14660
CASE NAME:                        Patrick Muh-En Lu
v. Lootably, Inc.  
MOVING PARTY:                 Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant Patrick Muh-En Lu
OPPOSING PARTY:             Defendant/Cross-Complainant Lootably, Inc.
TRIAL DATE:                        Not Set. 
PROOF OF SERVICE:           OK

                                                                                                                                                            

PROCEEDING:                      Demurrer to First Amended
Cross-Complaint 
OPPOSITION:                        29 April 2024
REPLY:                                  13
May 2024
 
TENTATIVE:                         Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant
Lu’s demurrer to the FACC is overruled. Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant Lu is ordered
to file Answer to the FACC in 10 days. 
The court sets a (Non-Appearance) OSC Re: Answer to FACC for June 7,
2024, at 8:30 a.m.  Moving party to give
notice.  

                                                                                                                                                            

 
Background
 
on June 23, 2023, Patrick Muh-En Lu (“Plaintiff”) filed a Complaint
against Lootably, Inc. (“Defendant” or “Lootably”) and Does 1 to 10. Plaintiff
seeks declaratory relief regarding whether his shares in Defendant have vested
making him a 25% owner. 
 
On August 18, 2023,
the Defendant filed a Cross-Complaint against Plaintiff and Roes 1 to 50. The
Cross-Complaint alleges six causes of action: (1) Recission of Employment
Agreement, (2) Recission of Stock Restriction Agreement, (3) Intentional
Misrepresentation, (4) Negligent Misrepresentation, (5) Breach of Fiduciary
Duty, and (6) Breach of Contract. 
 
On September 18,
2023, the Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant filed a demurrer to the Cross-Complaint.
Defendant/Cross-Complainant opposes the demurrer. On February 9, 2024, the
court sustained the demurrer to the Cross-complaint with leave to amend and
found that Delaware law applied to the Employment Agreement, the Stock
Restriction Agreement, as well as any other dispute arising from said
agreements. (Order of 02/09/2024.) 
 
On February 23,
2024, Defendant/Cross-Complainant Lootably filed the First Amended
Cross-Complaint (“FACC”) alleging the same six causes of action.
Cross-Defendant now demurs to the FACC. Defendant Lootably opposes the
demurrer. The matter is now before the court. 
request
for JUDICIAL notice
 
The Court may
take judicial notice of records of any court of record of the United States.
(Evid. Code, § 452(d)(2).) However, the court may only judicially notice the
existence of the record, not that its contents are the truth. (Sosinsky v.
Grant (1992) 6 Cal.App.4th 1548, 1565.) 
 
The
court may take judicial notice of records of any court of record of the United
States. (Evid. Code, § 452(d)(2).) However, the court may only judicially
notice the existence of the record, not that its contents are the truth. (Sosinsky
v. Grant (1992) 6 Cal.App.4th 1548, 1565.) 
 
Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant
Lu requests judicial notice of the following: 
 
1)    
CROSS-COMPLAINT BY
LOOTABLY, INC., which was filed on August 18, 2023. 
 
2)    
NOTICE OF DEMURRER AND
DEMURRER TO CROSS- COMPLAINT; MEMORANDUM OF POINTS AND AUTHORITIES; DECLARATION
OF STEPHEN S. SMITH, which was filed on September 18, 2023.
 
3)    
REPLY MEMORANDUM OF POINTS
AND AUTHORITIES IN SUPPORT OF DEMURRER TO CROSS-COMPLAINT, which was filed on
December 6, 2023.
 
4)    
PLAINTIFF/CROSS-DEFENDANT’S
SUPPLEMENTAL BRIEF RE: APPLICATION OF DELAWARE LAW, which was filed on January 24,
2024. 
 
5)    
Written Order of Court
sustaining Demurrer to the Cross-Complaint, dated February 9, 2024.
 
A court may take
judicial notice of contents of its own records. (Dwan v. Dixon (1963)
216 Cal.App.2d 260, 265; Foster v. Gray (1962) 203 Cal.App.2d 434,
439.) Cross-Defendant Lu’s request for judicial notice is granted. 
 
Discussion
 
I.         Legal Standard
 
Where pleadings are defective, a party may
raise the defect by way of a demurrer. (Coyne v. Krempels (1950) 36
Cal.2d 257, 262.) A demurrer tests the sufficiency of a pleading, and the
grounds for a demurrer must appear on the face of the pleading or from
judicially noticeable matters.¿ (CCP § 430.30(a); Blank v. Kirwan (1985)
39 Cal.3d 311, 318.) In evaluating a demurrer, the court accepts the
complainant’s properly pled facts as true and ignores contentions, deductions,
and conclusory statements. (Daar v. Yellow Cab Co. (1976) 67 Cal.2d 695,
713; Serrano v. Priest (1971) 5 Cal.3d 584, 591.) Moreover, the court
does not consider whether a plaintiff will be able to prove the allegations or
the possible difficulty in making such proof. (Fisher v. San Pedro Peninsula
Hospital (1989) 214 Cal.App.3d 590, 604.) 
Leave to amend must be allowed
where there is a reasonable possibility of successful amendment. (Goodman v.
Kennedy (1976) 18 Cal.3d 335, 348.)¿ The burden is on the complainant to
show the Court that a pleading can be amended successfully. (Ibid.)
 
II.        Demurrer
 
A.        Failure to Meet and
Confer
 
The
court notes that Cross-Defendant Lu has failed to comply with the mandatory
requirements of CCP § 430.41 which requires the parties to meet and confer
before filing a demurrer.  Cross-Defendant Lu’s motion is void of any
declaration reflecting Cross-Defendant’s efforts to meet and confer prior to
filing this Motion. “Any determination by the court that the meet and confer
process was insufficient shall not be grounds to overrule or sustain a
demurrer.” (CCP § 430.41(a)(4).) 
 
However, “[i]f upon review of a declaration under
430.41(a)(3), a court learns no meet and confer has taken place, or
concludes further conferences between counsel would likely be productive, it
retains the discretion to order counsel to meaningfully discuss the pleadings
with an eye toward reducing the number of issues or eliminating the need for a
demurrer, and to continue the hearing date to facilitate that effort.” (Dumas
v. Los Angeles County Bd. of Supervisors (2020) 45 Cal.App.5th 348, 356,
fn. 3; see also Rutherford v. Owens-Illinois, Inc. (1997) 16 Cal.4th
953, 967– 968 [courts have inherent authority to regulate proceedings in ways
consistent with statutes]; CCP § 430.42[“Nothing in this section [§ 430.41]
prohibits the court from ordering a conference on its own motion at any time
or prevents a party from requesting that the court order a conference to be
held.”] [italics added].) 
 
While the court retains the discretion to continue the
hearing and order the parties to comply with the meet and confer requirement,
the court will proceed to address the Motion on the merits. 
 
B.        Summary of
Allegations in FACC
 
In July
2022, the Chief Executive Officer of Lootably, Ethan Geczi (“Geczi”) became
interested in purchasing the domain “Playfull.com” from its owner,
Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant Patrick Muh-En Lu (“Lu”). (FACC ¶ 7.) When it became clear
Plaintiff Lu was not selling the domain name, Geczi entered into discussion
with Lu about Lu joining Lootably “based on Lu’s express representation that he
had many relationships with individuals who, within their respective companies,
had the authority to enter into business agreements on behalf of their
respective companies, (hereinafter Lu’s relationship with these individuals are
referred to as "decision-maker relationships”) and with whom he, as part
of Lootably, intended to
substantially grow LOOTABLY’S business.” (FACC ¶ 7.) 
 
Between
the end of 2022 and the first quarter of 2023, discussions between Lu, Geczi
and Joshua Verdehem (“Verdehem”) continued wherein Lu represented that his
“decision-maker relationship” would increase Lootably’s business.  Based on these representations, on April 21,
2023, Lootably and Lu entered into a written employment agreement (the
“Employment Agreement”) wherein Lu would serve as Lootably’s President and
Chief Operating Officer. (FACC ¶ 11.) 
Under the
Employment Agreement, Lou was granted a restricted stock grant (the “Stock
Grant” of One Million shares (1,000,000 shares) of the Company’s Common Stock
(the ‘Shares”) at a price equal to the fair market value of Lootably’s common
stock as determined by the Board on the date of the grant, pursuant to the
terms of a written stock restriction agreement (“Equity Agreement”). (FACC ¶
12, Ex. A, B.) 
 
The FACC
alleges that it later became clear to Geczi and Verdehem “that Lu's pre-employment representations about his having
"decision-maker relationships" and business relationships with
persons who had the authority to enter into business agreements with LOOTABLY,
and which he intended to substantially increase in LOOTABLY' s business based
on those relationships were false.” (FACC ¶ 16.) “Lu had no such
"decision-maker relationships" or business relationships with large
companies.” (FACC ¶ 16.) 
 
Moreover, the FACC
alleges that Lu breached his fiduciary duty owed to Lootably and its
stockholders by misappropriating assets and using corporate funds for
self-entertainment and self-promotion instead of Lootably’s business
development or for a legitimate business pursuit. (FACC ¶ 16.)  
 
Lu also breached
the Employment Agreement “by failing to devote his full business time,
attention, and best efforts in performing his duties and furthering LOOTABLY's
business interests.” (FACC ¶ 17.) During Lu’s employment, Lootably only
generated $500.00 in revenue. (FACC ¶16.) On June 12, 2023, Lootably terminated
Lu’s employment and he was removed as the Director, President, and Chief
Operating Officer of Lootably. (FACC ¶ 17.) 
 
Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant
Lu now demurs to first to fifth causes of action alleged in the FACC. 
 
C.        First and Second Causes of Action –
Recission of Employment Agreement and Recission of Stock Restriction Agreement
 
“The remedy of
rescission extinguishes the contract (Civ. Code, § 1688) and restores the
parties to their former positions by requiring them to return whatever
consideration they have received.” (Koenig v. Warner Unified School Dist.
(2019) 41 Cal.App.5th 43, 59–60.) “A
rescission is enforced by a civil action for relief based on rescission (Civ.
Code, § 1692) or by asserting rescission as a defense.” (Southern Ins. Co. v. Workers' Comp. Appeals Bd. (2017) 11 Cal.App.5th 961, 963–964.) “When the right to rescind exists section 1691 of the Civil Code
prescribes the method of procedure which must be followed.” (Neet v Holmes
(1944) 25 Cal.2d 447, 457.) 
 
(b) A party to a contract may rescind the contract in the
following cases:
 
(1)  
If the consent of the party
rescinding, or of any party jointly contracting with him, was given by mistake,
or obtained through duress, menace, fraud, or undue influence, exercised by or
with the connivance of the party as to whom he rescinds, or of any other party
to the contract jointly interested with such party.
 
(Civ. Code, §
1689(b).) 
The first and second causes of action are premised on the fact
that “Lu made numerous and repeatedly false representations” about having
“decision-maker relationships,” that these representations were false at the
time they were made, and that Lu had no reasonable grounds to believe them to
be true. (FACC ¶¶ 20, 29.) Lootably seeks to rescind the Employment Agreement
and the Stock Agreement on the grounds that Lootably’s consent to enter into
said agreement was “obtained by fraudulent misrepresentation of Lu”  because “[n]one of those introductions were
with individuals with the authority to enter into business agreements on behalf
of their respective companies and/or with individuals or large companies with
whom Lu had any business relationship with.”(FACC ¶¶ 22, 25, 30, Ex. A, B, C.) 
 
Accordingly, Lootably’s right to request the remedy of rescission
is premised on properly pleading a cause of action for Intentional Misrepresentation
and/or Negligent Misrepresentation. For the reasons set forth below, Lootably’s
demurrer to the first and second causes of action are overruled as the claims
for Intentional Misrepresentation and Negligent Misrepresentation are
adequately pled. 
 
            D.        Third and Fourth Causes of Action –
Intentional Misrepresentation and Negligent Misrepresentation
 
“The essential elements of a count for intentional
misrepresentation are (1) a misrepresentation, (2) knowledge of falsity, (3)
intent to induce reliance,  (4) actual
and justifiable reliance, and (5) resulting damage.” (Chapman v. Skype Inc. (2013) 220 Cal.App.4th 217, 230–231.) “The essential elements of a
count for negligent misrepresentation are the same except that it does not
require knowledge of falsity but instead requires a misrepresentation of fact
by a person who has no reasonable grounds for believing it to be true.” (Id.
at p. 231.) “Each element of a fraud count must be pleaded with particularity
so as to apprise the defendant of the specific grounds for the charge and
enable the court to determine whether there is any basis for the cause of
action, although less specificity is required if the defendant would likely
have greater knowledge of the facts than the plaintiff.” (Id. at p.
231.) 
 
Lootably’s third and fourth causes of action are premised on the
same operative facts: “Lu made false representations” about having “decision-maker relationships" and “business relationships”
and that when Lootably hired Lu, “he intended to use those ‘decision-maker
relationships’ and business relationships with large companies that would
result in a substantial increase in LOOTABLY's business.” These representations
were false because “Lu had no such ‘decision-maker relationships’ and/or
business relationships with large companies at the time he made such
representations.” (FACC ¶¶ 39, 46.) 
 
Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant Lu demurs to the first, second, third,
and fourth causes on the ground that under Delaware law, these causes of action
fail because the alleged misrepresentations are not actionable. “But, as the
Delaware cases (and this Court) have recognized, such predictions of a vague,
hoped-for economic success are not actionable as a matter of law. Trenwick
Am. Litig. Trust v. Ernst & Young, L.L.P., (Del Ch. 2006) 906 A.2d 168,
209; Great Lakes Chem. Corp. v. Pharmacia Corp., (Del. Ch. 2001) 788
A.2d 544, 554.)” (Demurrer at p. 1:20-24.) 
 
Plaintiff Lu is mistaken, however, in assuming that Delaware law
governs all of Lootably’s claims. This court ruled that Delaware Law applied to
the Employment Agreement and the Stock Restriction Agreement. (Order of
02/09/2024.)


Paragraph 8 of the
Employment Agreement states: 
 
This Offer Letter shall be governed by the laws
of the State of Delaware without regard to conflict-of-law principles.
 
(FACC Ex. A at p. 4, ¶ 8.) 
 
Paragraph 12(e) of the
Stock Restriction Agreement states: 
 
Governing Law. This agreement
and actions taken thereunder shall be governed by and construed in accordance
with, the laws of the State of Delaware, applied without regard to conflict of
law principles. 
 
(FACC Ex. B at p.
8, ¶ 12(e) [underline original].)
 
Accordingly, Delaware law applies to any dispute regarding the interpretation
of the Employment Agreement and the Stock Rescission Agreement. Here, the
misrepresentations occurred before the parties entered into the Agreements and
the FACC does not concern the interpretation or content of the Agreements.
Therefore, California procedural and substantive law governs the third and
fourth causes of action.
 
“The law
is well established that actionable misrepresentations must pertain to past or
existing material facts. [Citation.] Statements or predictions regarding future
events are deemed to be mere opinions which are not actionable.” (Cansino v. Bank of America (2014)
224 Cal.App.4th 1462, 146.) The representation by Lu that he would use his
“relationship” to grow Lootably’s business is not actionable because such a
statement goes to a future event. But the fact that “Lu had no such
‘decision-maker relationships’” is a statement of fact asserting that Lu did
not have any contact with persons  who
“had the authority to enter into business agreements on behalf of their
respective companies” despite representing to Lootably that he in fact did have
such present existing relationships. (FACC ¶¶ 7, 8, 39, 46.) 
 
The FACC
alleges that Plaintiff Lu introduced Lootably to “several companies, Gen.G
Esports, TSM, Sky Dance,” reflecting that Plaintiff did have “relationships.” None
of the introductions were with a “decision maker” for their company because Lu
did not, in fact, have such any relationship. (FACC ¶¶ 8, 9. 10.) This is a
representation of a past or existing fact, sufficient to constitute a
misrepresentation. “A demurrer does not lie to a portion of a cause of action.”
(PH II, Inc. v. Superior Court (1995) 33 Cal.App.4th 1680, 1682.) Therefore, the fact that Lu
failed to grow Lootably’s business is not an actionable representation because
it is a representation about a future event. 
The allegation that Lootably had no relationship with “decision-makers”
is, however, sufficient to sustain the demurrer to the third and fourth causes
of action. 
 
Therefore,
the demurrer to the third and fourth causes of action are overruled. 
 
            E.        Fifth Cause of Action – Breach of
Fiduciary Duty
 
"The elements of a cause of action for breach of fiduciary
duty are the existence of a fiduciary relationship, its breach, and damage
proximately caused by that breach.” (Meister v. Mensinger (2014) 230
Cal.App.4th 381, 395.) A fiduciary relationship is “any relation existing
between parties to a transaction wherein one of the parties is duty bound to
act with the utmost good faith for the benefit of the other party.” (Cleveland
v. Johnson (2012) 209 Cal.App.4th 1315, 1338.) “Such a relation ordinarily
arises where a confidence is reposed by one person in the integrity of
another.” (Id.) “[B]efore a person can be charged with a fiduciary
obligation, he must either knowingly undertake to act on behalf and for the
benefit of another, or must enter into a relationship which imposes that
undertaking as a matter of law.” (Id.)   
 
The FACC alleges that Lu as the Director, President, and Chief
Operating Officer of Lootably, Inc. owed a fiduciary duty to Lootably that
precluded Lu from using Lootably’s money “for purposes of self-entertainment
and self-promotion wholly unrelated to LOOTABLY' s business interests.” (FACC
¶¶ 51, 52.) “Lu did not exercise the care required of directors and officers
and breached the fiduciary duties he owed to LOOTABLY by” “incurring extensive
expenses for self-entertainment and self-promotion unrelated to LOOTABLY' s
business or business development.” (FACC 
53.) 
 
Plaintiff Lu demurs to the fifth cause of action on the ground that
under Delaware law, a plaintiff may not allege a cause of action for breach of
fiduciary duty based on obligations expressly addressed by contract. (Nemec
v. Shrader, (Del. Ch. 2010) 991 A.2d 1120, 1129.) 
 
As stated above, the fifth cause of action does not concern the
interpretation of the Employment Agreement or Stock Recission Agreement, or
any action taken pursuant to the Stock Recission Agreement. (FACC Ex. A at p.
4, ¶ 8; FACC Ex. B at p. 8, ¶ 12(e).) Paragraph 8 of the Employment Agreement
states that the Employment Agreement is “governed by the laws of the State of
Delaware” but contains no provision extending the Delaware choice of law
provision to claims arising from the Employment Contract. (FACC Ex. A at p. 4, ¶ 8.) Therefore, the court is not persuaded
that Delaware law applies to the breach of fiduciary claim in the FACC. 
 
Whether
Plaintiff Lu breached his fiduciary duties under Corp. Code § 309(a) is a
question of fact that should be decided under California law rather than
Delaware law. (FACC ¶ 52.) Moreover, Cross-Complainant Lootably fails to cite
case law to support the finding that the obligations outlined in Corp. Code §
309(a) arise out of the Employment Agreement or are subsumed under the duties
outlined in the Employment Agreement. 
 
 As Plaintiff Lu fails to show that the breach
of fiduciary duty cause of action is improperly pled or barred under California
law, the demurrer to the fifth cause of action is overruled. 
 
Conclusion
 
Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant
Lu’s demurrer to the FACC is overruled. Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant Lu 
is
ordered to file Answer to the FACC in 10 days. 
The court sets a (Non-Appearance) OSC Re: 
Answer
to FACC for June 7, 2024, at 8:30 a.m. 
Moving party to give notice.  
 