  Case Number:  22PSCV00580    Hearing Date:   September 20, 2023    Dept:  O Tentative Ruling
 
(1)   DEMURRER TO PLAINTIFF’S VERIFIED THIRD
AMENDED COMPLAINT is SUSTAINED in its entirety without leave to
amend.
 
(2)   DEFENDANT
BO SUN’S MOTION TO STRIKE PLAINTIFF WENDY LIN’S VERIFIED THIRD AMENDED
COMPLAINT is GRANTED, without leave to amend.
 
Background
 
This is a
quiet title action regarding properties located at 16485 Monte Cristo Drive,
Hacienda Heights, CA 91745 (the “Monte Cristo Property”), 1621 Derringer Lane,
Diamond Bar, CA (the “Derringer Lane Property”), and 14211 Skyline Drive,
Hacienda Heights, CA (the “Skyline Drive Property”).
 
On June 14,
2022, Plaintiff filed the complaint against BO SUN, an individual; ALL PERSONS
UNKNOWN, Claiming Any Legal or Equitable Right, Title, Estate, Lien, or
Interest in the Property Described in this Complaint Adverse to Plaintiff’s
title, or any Cloud upon Plaintiff’s Title Thereto; and DOES 1 through 20,
inclusive for: 1.     Breach of Fiduciary 2.     Conversion 3.     Fraud 4.     Quiet Title 5.     Common County—Money Lent
 
On July 12,
2022, Plaintiff filed a Notice of Lis Pendens. 
 
On August 24,
2022, Defendant filed a Demurrer, which on October 4, 2022 the court sustained
with leave to amend. 
 
On December
5, 2022, Plaintiff filed a FAC for 1. BREACH OF FIDUCIARY DUTY 2. QUIET TITLE
3. FRAUD 4. DECLARTORY RELIEF 5. INJUNCTIVE RELIEF 6. UNJUST ENRICHMENT/
CONSTRUCTIVE TRUST 7. QUANTUM MERUIT. 
 
On January
12, 2023 Defendant filed its demurrer to the FAC, which on 2/28/23 the court
sustained with leave to amend as to the fraud and quiet title causes of action,
and overruled as to the others. 
 
On March 10,
2023, Plaintiff filed a second amended complaint (SAC). 
 
On June 14,
2023, the parties filed a stipulation for leave for Plaintiff to file a
proposed third amended complaint (TAC). That same day, Plaintiff filed a TAC,
alleging the following COAs:
 
1.     Breach of Fiduciary Duty
2.     Quiet Title 
3.     Fraud and Concealment [the third COA
is categorized into two counts]. 
4.     Declaratory Relief 
5.     Injunctive Relief 
6.     Unjust Enrichment/Constructive Trust
 
On August 3,
2023, Defendant filed a demurrer and motion to strike (MTS) to the TAC.
 
On September
7, 2023, Plaintiff filed her opposition.[1]

 
On September
12, 2023, Defendant filed respective replies. 
 
Discussion
 
Previously,
the court sustained the demurrer because “the complaint [was] unintelligible”
as it listed a variety of properties without indicating their relevance to each
cause of action. Then, in the FAC, the pleadings more clearly stated that the
properties are relevant as to the parties’ joint venture agreement (“Joint
Venture Agreement”) and arbitration agreement. 
That said,
upon a third amended complaint, the court determines the fraud and quiet title
causes of action are again conclusively pled; thus, after numerous attempts at
amendments, leave to amend will be denied. 
 
1.     Fraud COA[2]

 
Defendant
demurs on the grounds that the fraud cause of action (predicated upon purported
misrepresentation and concealment) is premised upon conclusory allegations. 
 
The court again
agrees. Turning to the TAC, the cause of action for Count 1 is predicated upon
the following pertinent allegations: 
 
-       
As
to the Derringer Lane Property, Defendant concealed the fact that he had no
intention of placing Plaintiff’s name on title 
-       
Plaintiff’s
reliance was reasonable because of the fiduciary relationship between the
parties 
 
(TAC ¶53,56.)

 
Count 2 is
predicated upon the following allegations:
 
-       
Plaintiff
informs Defendant did not intend to repay the loan
-       
Defendant’s
representation that the loan was safe because he had the equivalent of 8
million dollars of cash in China was a misrepresentation because Defendant did
not have 8 million dollars anywhere such that it was a ruse to convince
Plaintiff to lend Defendant $460,006 which he would never repay
 
(TAC ¶¶65-71.)

 
As noted,
before, fraud requires pleading with specificity but merely pleading that
Defendant did not fulfill a promise does not amount to fraud. And while
Plaintiff’s citation to Committee On Children’s Television, Inc. v.
General Foods Corp. (1983) 35 Cal.3d 197, 217 for the proposition that
“less particularity is required when the facts lie more in the knowledge of the
opposite party,” the case still requires at least some specificity; merely reiterating elements of the
cause of action satisfy pleading standards. 
 
Therefore, as
plaintiff’s opposition merely repleads allegations in the TAC, the court
sustains the demurrer without leave to amend. 
 
2.     Quiet Title
 
Quiet title actions are governed by
Code of Civil Procedure section 760.020, subdivision (a). In turn, the CCP
statute permits a party to bring an action “to establish title against
adverse claims” to real property. The first step is that a plaintiff files a
verified complaint, which is to delineate “[t]he adverse claims to the title of
the plaintiff against which a determination is sought” and name as defendants
“the persons having adverse claims that are of record or known to the plaintiff
or reasonably apparent from an inspection of the property. (Code Civ. Proc., §
761.020, subd. (b).) Moreover, the plaintiff is required to “[i]mmediately”
record a lis pendens. (Id.) The court is then required to “examine into
and determine the plaintiff's title against the claims of all the defendants.”
(Code. Civ. Proc., §764.010.)
 
Plaintiff again
(via identical allegations) asserts this cause of action as to the Derringer
Lane Property and is premised upon the following allegation: “Plaintiff
transferred $520,000 to Defendant as her share of the purchase price with the
expectation that Plaintiff would be entitled to rights to title and equity” but
“Defendant did not put Plaintiff on title and instead took title entirely in
his own name without ever disclosing this material fact to Plaintiff. Defendant
has breached his agreement.” (TAC ¶¶44, 45.) 
 
As previously
held, the owner of an equitable interest cannot
maintain an action to quiet title against the owner of the legal title.
(Stafford v. Ballinger (1962) 199 Cal. App.2d 289, 294-295.) At
most Plaintiff has alleged an “expectation” in the title, but Plaintiff has not
provided legal authority to support the fact that an expectation of a right, in
of itself, could give rise to a quiet title claim. 
 
To the extent
that Plaintiff attempts to use allegations of fraud to support an equitable
title COA (Opp. pp. 5-6), as noted above, the fraud COA is not properly pled. And
to the extent that Plaintiff conclusively cites to Evidence Code section 662
for the proposition that the holder of legal title as being the owner of full
beneficial title may be rebutted “only by clear and convincing evidence,”
here, this is merely the pleading stage wherein the court is not concerned with
evidence but allegations that could support discovery of certain
evidence. 
 
Motion to
Strike
 
As for the
motion to strike, as punitive damages are predicated upon the allegation that “defendant
fraudulently concealed information that he was obligated to disclose” (Opp. to
MTS p. 4:13-15), but as noted above, the court finds fraud is insufficiently
pled, punitive damages are unsupported. Thus, as the gist of the TAC is that
Defendant allegedly failed to repay money—and failure to repay does not support
malice, oppression, or fraud under Civil Code §3294—the motion is granted.[3] 
 
Conclusion

 
Based on the
foregoing, the demurrer is sustained without leave to amend, notably as the TAC
is largely similar to the previous complaints and still largely based upon
information and belief, not upon facts. To permit Plaintiff to proceed with
these COAs against Defendant without facts would permit a plaintiff to assert any
COA against a defendant and make any claims against a defendant, which
undermines the very purpose of the judicial system. 


