


[1] Though the hearing
on Casa Colina’s motion is on 11/09/23, the court will briefly address should
the parties file a stipulation and take the motion off calendar. Casa
Colina’s motion, as with the last, attempts to strike punitive damages from the
FAC because Plaintiff (again) did not obtain leave of court pursuant to CCP
section 425.13 (see also Central Pathology Service Medical Clinic, Inc. v.
Supenor Court (1992) 3 Cal.4th 181) before seeking punitive damages against
a healthcare provider. Though Defense Counsel Stosuv’s declaration indicates
that the parties met and conferred prior to filing the motion but the parties
could not reach an agreement (Motion, p. 8 of 22), Plaintiff has filed a
notice of non-opposition to striking punitive damages from the prayer for
relief as to Defendant Casa Colina. (Note: though Plaintiffs indicate that they
do not oppose striking paragraph 9, at line 14, on page 37, the other
allegation that Casa Colina seeks to strike (Page 35, Paragraph 139) is a
merely an allegation that provides for punitive damages (as to all Defendants);
thus, striking the prayer for relief for punitive damages inherently strikes an
allegation regarding punitive damages as to Casa Colina.) The failure to stipulate yet
file a non-opposition is a violation of the Civility Guidelines, which are a part of the
Local Rules of the Los Angeles Superior Court, for a lawyer to “force his or
her adversary to make a motion and then not oppose it.”  (Local Rules, Appendix
3.A, § (h)(1).) Plaintiffs
should have stipulated to the motion to strike for the sake of judicial economy
and the parties’ respective resources.  
 


[2] Plaintiffs, relying
upon Adams (infra), that the court is not required to abate the
action. (Opp. p. 4.) However, Adams is distinguishable. In Adams, the
plaintiff was an administrator of the estate of the decedent (i.e.,
trustee of the heirs) whereas here, Jenny Macias is not acting as the personal
representative of the decedent. In fact, Jenny Macias is not even acting as the
personal representative of Munoz, but according to the case caption, she is
suing individually and has mother’s successor in interest. And as
an alleged successor in interest, Jenny Macias is not acting in a
representative capacity, other than perhaps to represent herself. (Reply p. 2,
quoting Exarhos v. Exarhos (2008) 159 Cal.App.4th 898, 908.) 


[3] If Daniel Munoz has
no literal and legal interest in the matter, the court is uncertain as to what
interest of Jenny Macias would be representing. 
 


[4] In its Reply, Dr.
Badday states that despite his hesitation with the declaration, “[i]f the court
is comfortable with the declaration, and will so indicate on the record, Dr.
Badday is comfortable as well.” (Reply p. 3:8-9.) While the court appreciates
the deference, as a matter of settled precedent and statutory interpretation, the
court finds the declaration inconsequential to the issue of abatement. 
 


[5] The parties’
citations overlap, and their papers do not dispute the law that governs the
issue. 
 


[6] While the one action
rule prevents multiple prosecutions against the same defendant, a defendant who
settles with less than all known heirs waives the right to face only a
single wrongful death action. (Smith v. Premier Alliance Ins. Co. (1995)
41 Cal.App.4th 691, 698.) Here, Dr.
Badday makes the instant motion because Plaintiffs’ Counsel advised Defense
Counsel that there is an additional heir, Jenny Macias’ brother (i.e.,
decedent’s son), Daniel Munoz. Thus, with actual knowledge of an additional
heir but an heir who is neither named in the action as a plaintiff or nominal
defendant, failure to make a plea of abatement risks multiple suits against Dr.
Badday (and prevents settlement negotiations). (Motion p. 3.) On the other
hand, when a defendant settles with all known heirs, the heirs who were
“neither voluntarily nor involuntarily joined in it must instead seek a remedy
against the settling heirs, not the defendant.” (Opp. p. 5, citing Gonzales
v. Southern Cal. Edison Co. (1999) 77 Cal.App.4th 485, 489.)           
 


[7] Salmon was
cited in Ruttenberg. 
 

