 Case Number:  23PSCV00365    Hearing Date:   September 20, 2023    Dept:  O Tentative Ruling
 
MOTION OF DEFENDANT JALAL BADDAY, M.D., TO TEMPORARILY
ABATE PLAINTIFFS' ACTION UNTIL ALL POTENTIAL PLAINTIFFS ARE PROPERLY JOINED AS
PARTIES is GRANTED in part; only the wrongful death COA is abated.

 
Background
 
This is an
elder abuse case. Plaintiff EVANGELINE MUNOZ (“decedent” or “Ms. Munoz”), in
and through her Successor-In-Interest, Jenny Macias, and JENNY MACIAS allege
the following against Defendants CASA COLINA HOSPITAL; CASA COLINA HOSPITAL
& CENTERS FOR HEALTHCARE dba CASA COLINA HOSPITAL; CASA COLINA, INC
(hereinafter, “Casa Colina”).; JALAL BADDAY, M.D.; HUSSEIN ABIDALI, D.O: Ms.
Munoz was a resident of Casa Colina from March 27, 2022 to April 22, 2022 where
she was admitted for rehabilitative care following a stroke. (Complaint ¶27.) Dr. Badday was Ms. Munoz’s
attending physician. (Complaint ¶22.) Due to her poor appetite, Ms. Munoz required
one-on-one supervision to ensure she adequately ate. (Complaint ¶30.) Additionally, Ms. Munoz
was to be monitored for a urinary tract infection (“UTI”) and perform bladder
scans every six hours. (Complaint ¶29.) On April 6, 2022, decedent was diagnosed with
depression, and prescribed medication, which reduced her appetite
severely. (Complaint ¶31.) Thus, Ms. Munoz’s
physicians began discussing the possibility of a G-tube insertion due to their
concern of her lack of eating. (Complaint ¶33.) On April 14, 2022, Dr. Abidali performed the
G-tube placement, but it was later determined that the tube was improperly
place, leading to an infection. After an emergency surgery, Ms. Munoz suffered
at least one additional stroke, leading her to become severely impaired and put
in a semi-vegetative state, where she remained in a semi-vegetative state until
her passing on September 11, 2022. (Complaint ¶¶61, 63.) 
 
On February
7, 2023, Plaintiffs filed suit for:
 
1. Elder Abuse (Welfare And Institutions Code § 15600, Et
Seq.) 
2. Negligence 
3. Willful Misconduct 
4. Wrongful Death. 
 
On March 16,
2023, Casa Colina a motion to strike, which the court on 6/13/23 granted with
leave to amend. 
 
On May 3,
2023, Dr. Badday filed a demurrer, which the court on 6/13/23 sustained with
leave to amend (rendering motion to strike moot). 
 
On July 7,
2023, Plaintiffs filed their First Amended Complaint (FAC). 
 
On July 28,
2023, Dr. Badday filed the instant motion. 
 
On August 2,
2023, Casa Colina filed a Joinder to Dr. Badday’s motion to abate Plaintiffs’
action. 
 
On August 4,
2023, Casa Colina filed a motion to strike. 
 
On August 7,
2023, Dr. Badday filed a demurrer with a motion to strike (MTS). 
 
On August 22,
2023, Plaintiffs filed a non-opposition to Casa Colina’s motion to strike.[1]

That same
day, Plaintiffs filed their opposition to Dr. Badday’s demurrer and motion to
strike. 
 
On August 25,
2023, the court continued the hearings on the demurrer and motion to strike(s).

 
On August 28,
2023, Dr. Badday filed his Reply in support of his demurrer and MTS. 
 
On September
7, 2023, Plaintiffs filed their opposition to Dr. Badday’s motion to
temporarily abate Plaintiffs’ action. 
 
On September
8, 2023, Casa Colina filed a ‘Notice of Correction of Name of Defendant’ as
Casa Colina was erroneously sued and served as CASA COLINA HOSPITAL; CASA
COLINA HOSPITAL & CENTERS FOR HEALTHCARE dba CASA COLINA HOSPITAL; and CASA
COLINA, INC, but these entities do not exist and should be removed as parties.
 
On September
12, 2023, Dr. Badday filed his Reply in support of the instant motion. 
 
Legal
Standard
 
Defendant
brings forth the motion pursuant to California Code of Civil Procedure (CCP)
section 377.60. (Motion p. 4.) “This is the so-called one action rule.” (Gonzales
v. Southern California Edison Co. (1999) 77 Cal.App.4th 485, 489.) 
 
The statute
provides that a cause of action for wrongful
death may be asserted by the persons “who would be entitled to the property of
the decedent by intestate succession,” including decedent's “surviving
spouse, domestic partner, children, and issue of deceased children.... or
by the decedent's personal representative on their behalf” (i.e.,
decedent’s heirs). (Code of Civ. Proc., section 377.60, subd. (a), emphasis
added and italics added.)[2] 
 
Discussion
 
Dr. Badday argues that as an heir of decedent, Daniel Munoz must be
joined to the action. 
 
In opposition, Plaintiffs contend that Daniel Munoz is not an
indispensable, not a necessary party, nor an omitted heir because Daniel
Munoz has voluntarily chosen to not be named in the action. Specifically,
the entirety of Munoz’s declaration is as follows: 
 
1. I am the son of the decedent, EVANGELINE MUNOZ. I have personal
knowledge of the facts set forth in this declaration and if called as a
witness, I could and would competently testify to the matters set forth herein.
2. I have been advised that an action has or will be filed on behalf of my
mother’s estate for injuries she sustained at Casa Colina Hospital, and a
wrongful death action filed by my sister, JENNY MACIAS. 3. I have been advised
that as a lawful heir of my mother, I have a right to be a party to the
wrongful death cause of action and should I wish not to participate as a
plaintiff, I must be joined as a nominal defendant. I have been advised that
under California’s one action rule, all possible claimants to the wrongful
death cause of action must be joined in a single lawsuit. I have been advised
that as a lawful heir of my mother, I have a right to be a party to the
wrongful death cause of action and should I wish not to participate as a
plaintiff, I must be joined as a nominal defendant. I have been advised that
under California’s one action rule, all possible claimants to the wrongful
death cause of action must be joined in a single lawsuit. 4. I do not wish to
be a named party to the wrongful death cause of action either as a plaintiff or
a nominal defendant in the above captioned matter. I appoint my sister, JENNY
MACIAS, to be the named plaintiff on the Wrongful Death cause of action
and to represent my interest[3]
in the Wrongful Death cause of action. 5. I understand that I may
not bring a separate action for Wrongful Death against the Defendants in the
above captioned matter. I knowingly, voluntarily, and expressly decline
participation in this legal action, including my right to bring a Wrongful
Death cause of action. 6. Through this declaration I am to be considered joined
in the case for purposes of the “one action rule,” however, I do not want my
name on the caption, either as a plaintiff or a nominal defendant and
through this declaration I am instructing Moran Law or any law firm who is or
will have any involvement with the action to not include my name on the caption
of the case. 7. I authorize and I am instructing that any service of summons,
complaints, or subpoenas for deposition and trial be made on my attorneys,
Moran Law. 8. I have been advised on my right to seek independent legal counsel
as to my rights as the son of EVANGELINE MUNOZ and the importance of the significant
rights I am waiving in this declaration. I have either consulted with such
independent counsel or have chosen not to do so. I specifically understand and agree
that by withdrawing from any involvement in this lawsuit, I forfeit and
exchange all legal rights to damages which I may be entitled arising from my
mother’s death.
 
(Opp. pp. 12-13 of 64 of PDF [Munoz Decl.], emphasis added.)[4] 
 To resolve the issue of whether
Munoz’s refusal to join the action and Munoz’s acknowledgment that he waives
his right to file a subsequent suit against Dr. Badday arising from the same
set of facts is sufficient prevent his naming as a party in the action, the
court turns to the cited cases discusse the statute.[5]  
 
The court in Ruttenberg v. Ruttenberg (1997) 53 Cal.App.4th 801,
provides the following synopsis of the law: 
 
A wrongful death action has a statutory rather than
common law origin; the Legislature both created and limited the remedy. [internal citations omitted]. Section 377.60 and its
predecessor statute, section 377, do not expressly prevent more than one cause
of action by a decedent's heirs. Nevertheless wrongful death actions are
considered to be ‘joint, single and indivisible.’ [internal citation omitted] .
. . ‘In stating that an
action for wrongful death is joint, it is meant that all heirs should join or
be joined in the action and that a single verdict should be rendered for all
recoverable damages; when it is said that the action is single, it is meant that
only one action for wrongful death may be brought whether, in fact, it is
instituted by all or only one of the heirs, or by the personal representative
of the decedent as statutory trustee for the heirs; and when it is said that
the action is indivisible, it is meant that there cannot be a series of suits
by heirs against the tortfeasor for their individual damages.’ The wrongful death statute is ‘a procedural
statute establishing compulsory joinder and not a statute creating a joint
cause of action.’ [internal citation omitted] ….Omitted heirs [] are ‘necessary parties,’ and plaintiff heirs have a
mandatory duty to join all known omitted heirs in the ‘single action’ for
wrongful death. If an heir refuses to participate in the suit as a plaintiff,
he or she may be named as a defendant so that all heirs
are before the court in the same action. 
 
(Id. at pp. 807-808, emphasis added and italics added).[6]
 
In opposition, Plaintiffs’ main argument focuses on the latter sentence:
the language in Ruttenberg
provides
permissive, not mandatory, language that Daniel Munoz may be named
as a nominal defendant, but he need not be named as a defendant. (Opp.
p. 3:13-18.) 
 
While Plaintiffs’ reading is undoubtedly
reasonable, the outcome such interpretation yields—wherein the
heir/Daniel Munoz is not named as neither a plaintiff nor a nominal
defendant—is incongruent with precedent on the matter. The authority
cited by both parties undoubtedly contemplate that the action shall be brought
either by the personal representatives of the deceased solely for the benefit
of all the heirs or by all the heirs for their own benefit, and if the latter,
a single joint cause of action is given. As the California Supreme Court in Salmon
v. Rathjens (1907) 152 Cal 290, 294, observed:[7]
 
The right of action in such a case being entirely
statutory, the action must be brought in the names of the persons to whom the
right is given by the statute. This is the universal rule. [internal citations
omitted]. The cases from other states holding that the action may be maintained
by one or more beneficiaries without joining all are based upon statutes
construed as giving the right of action to one or more for the benefit of all,
just as our own statute gives the right to the personal representatives of the
deceased for the benefit of all the heirs. An action by a portion only of
the heirs is not the action authorized by our statute. All the heirs should
therefore, join as plaintiffs in an action by heirs, and, if the consent
of any one who should be so joined cannot be obtained, he may be made a
defendant. 
 
(Id. at pp. 294-294, emphasis added.) 
 
Accordingly, though mindful that Daniel Munoz does not seek to be a part
of the action, the language of the wrongful death statute does not permit the
construction that Plaintiffs ask the court to consider. Thus, the court orders
Daniel Munoz to be named as either as a plaintiff or nominal defendant.
 
To the extent that Plaintiffs in
opposition explain that they agreed to stipulate to the naming of Daniel Munoz
as a nominal defendant (Opp. p. 6:25-26), that appears to be
case, despite Dr. Badday’s seeming characterization that the stipulation came
with strings attached.
According to an email dated June 27, 2023, Plaintiffs’ Counsel, David Ramirez,
wrote to the attorneys that “Since Plaintiffs have to amend the complaint
anyway following the recent demurrer hearing, are the parties willing to
stipulate to allow Plaintiff to amend the complaint further by adding in a
Plaintiff (Daniel Munoz, brother of Jenny Macias) and adding a cause of action
of Battery against Dr. Abidali for failing to obtain informed consent
prior to the surgery? Please let me know if that is agreeable. If so, I'll
circulate a stipulation this afternoon. Thank you, David.” (Opp. Ex., 2, p. 16
of 64 of PDF.) Then, on August 1, 2023, the latest email provided, Counsel
Ramirez wrote to the parties “Can we all agree to a stip to add the heir and deal
with the other issue down the line?” (emphasis added). To this, there
was no response, or at least none provided in Reply. Thus, based upon the
email exchange, Plaintiffs were willing to stipulate to add Daniel Munoz as a
nominal defendant. As this motion could have been avoided had Dr. Badday’s
Counsel stipulated, the court admonishes Counsel.
 
Lastly, to the extent that Dr. Badday attempts to abate the survival
causes of action, Plaintiffs argue the court does not have discretion to do so.
(Opp. p. 5-6.) The court agrees with Plaintiffs as survival causes of action
and wrongful death cause of action are governed by different statutes. As
clearly explained by the Adams court, “[U]nlike a wrongful death claim,
the survival statutes do not create a cause
of action but merely prevent the abatement of the decedent's cause of
action and provide for its enforcement by the decedent's personal
representative or successor in interest. [Citations.]” (Adams, supra,
196 Cal.App.4th at p. 79, emphasis added). 
 
Thus, as decedent’s successor in interest pursuant to CCP section
377.32, Jenny Macias is entitled to enforce decedent’s survival COAs for elder
abuse, negligence, and willful misconduct without regard to the abatement of
the wrongful death COA. The Reply does not address this argument. 
 
Conclusion
 
Based on the foregoing, the motion is granted in part; the wrongful
death cause of action is abated, but the survival causes of action are not
abated. 
 
 


