 Case Number:  23STCV24649    Hearing Date:   December 23, 2024    Dept:  34 Defendant Ji Hoon Lee’s
Motion for Leave to File Cross-Complaint is GRANTED. Defendant is ordered to
file the cross-complaint within 10 days of this court’s ruling. 
 
Background
 
            On October 10, 2023, Plaintiff Paul
Blinderman (“Plaintiff”) filed a complaint against Defendants 1210 North Kings
Road Association Inc., Resource Property Management Inc., Asher Kaufman, Ji
Hoon Lee, and Beuse Inc. (“Defendants”) arising from water and structural
damage to Plaintiff’s property, located
at 1210 North Kings Road, Unit 102, West Hollywood, CA 90069, alleging causes
of action for: 
 
1.              
 Breach of CC&RS;
2.              
 Negligence; and 
3.              
 Nuisance. 
 
On November 6, 2023,
Defendant Beuse Inc. filed an answer to Plaintiff’s complaint. 
 
On November 9, 2023,
Defendant Ji Hoon Lee filed an answer to Plaintiff’s complaint.
 
On December 11, 2023, Defendants 1210 North Kings
Road Association Inc., Resource Property Management Inc., and Asher Kaufman
filed an answer to Plaintiff’s complaint.
 
On August 20, 2024, the court granted Defendant/Cross-Complainant
Ji Hoon Lee’s (“Lee”) Motion for Leave to File a Cross-Complaint against
Cross-Defendant Barbara Schoen. 
 
On September 24, 2024, the court denied Lee’s Motion
for a Protective Order and granted Plaintiff’s Motion to Compel a Unit Inspection.

 
On October 29, 2024, Lee filed this Motion for Leave
to File a Cross-Complaint. On December 10, 2024, Plaintiff filed an opposition
to Lee’s motion. On December 16, 2024, Lee filed a reply. 
 
On November 12, 2024, Cross-Defendant Barbara Schoen
filed an answer to Lee’s cross-complaint. 
 
Legal Standard
 
A cross-complaint may be either permissive or compulsory.
Compulsory cross-complaints are based on allegations arising out of the same
transactions or occurrences as the causes of action which the plaintiff alleges
in his or her complaint. (Code Civ. Proc. (“CCP”), § 426.10, subd.
(c).)¿Compulsory cross-complaint causes of action must exist at the time an
answer to the original cross-complaint is required.¿(CCP § 426.30, subd. (a).)¿
All other cross-complaints are permissive.¿(CCP § 428.10.) If a party fails to
file any cross-complaint before or when they file an answer, they must move the
court for leave to file a cross-complaint.¿ (CCP § 428.50.) The court “shall”
grant leave to file a compulsory cross-complaint, as long as the party
demonstrates that, notwithstanding being late, the motion for leave is brought
in good faith.¿ (CCP § 426.50.)¿The court “may” grant leave to file a
permissive cross-complaint “in the interest of justice at any time during the
course of the action.”¿ (CCP § 428.50, subd. (c).)¿¿
A policy of liberal
construction of section 426.50 to avoid forfeiture of causes of action is
imposed on the trial court.¿ (Silver Orgs. v. Frank (1990) 217 Cal. App.
3d 94, 98-99.) ¿A motion to file a cross-complaint at any time during the
course of the action must be granted unless substantial evidence of bad faith
is demonstrated. ¿(Ibid.)
Discussion
 
            Defendant/Cross-Complainant Lee moves the court for an
order granting leave to file a proposed cross-complaint against Cross-Defendant
John Joseph Kelly (“Kelly”),
individually and as Trustee of Chicken Buckethead Trust, alleging causes of
action for:
 
1.              
 Equitable Indemnity; 
2.              
 Contribution and Apportionment; and 
3.              
 Declaratory Relief. 
 
Lee
contends that evidence of a common wall leak from Kelly’s unit entering
Plaintiff’s property was discovered during the site inspection of Plaintiff’s
unit on October 2, 2024. (Motion, at p. 5; Konoske Dec., ¶ 5.) As such, Lee
argues that he could not have asserted his claims against Kelly prior to filing
his answer and is acting in good faith by seeking leave. (Motion, at p. 5.) Lee
also contends that granting leave serves the interest of justice and no parties
will suffer prejudice as there is sufficient time before trial to add Kelly as
a new party. (Id., at p. 6.) 
 
In
opposition, Plaintiff argues that he will be prejudiced if trial were to be
continued. (Opp., at pp. 1-2.) Plaintiff also contends that Lee does not need
to file his cross-complaint now as a claim for indemnity does not accrue until
the primary tortfeasor has paid money to the claimant. (Id., at p. 2.) Additionally,
Plaintiff argues that Lee’s grounds for leave are unsupported as Lee did not
provide his own declaration regarding Lee’s newly discovered evidence or how
this triggered the need to file a cross-complaint. (Ibid.) 
 
In
reply, Lee restates his arguments that Plaintiff would not be prejudiced if
leave is granted and that Lee’s request for leave is proper due to the newly
discovered evidence. (Reply, at pp. 3-4.) 
 
The
court finds that Lee’s proposed cross-complaint is compulsory in that it
asserts claims between Lee and Kelly that arise out of the same transaction and
occurrence as alleged in the complaint. Additionally, there is insufficient
evidence of bad faith as Lee provided declarations from Lee’s counsel and inspector
of Plaintiff’s unit regarding the wall leak found. (Konoske Dec., ¶ 5; DeLise
Decl., ¶ 5.) Lastly, Plaintiff has not demonstrated undue prejudice. As such,
Lee’s motion is granted. 
 
Conclusion
 
Defendant
Ji Hoon Lee’s Motion for Leave to File Cross-Complaint is GRANTED. Defendant is
ordered to file the cross-complaint within 10 days of this court’s ruling. 