Here is the summary in YAML format:

```
Case Number: 21STCV07940
Plaintiff's Name: alejandra garcia, et al.
Defendant's Name: city of los angeles, et al.
People-Names: Danyelle Leah Sims, Chance Brown, Elizabeth Tooley, Robert B. Broadbelt III
Company-Names: Carpenter & Zuckerman
Places: Glenwood, Illinois, Santa Cruz, California, Los Angeles, California
Dates: October 3, 2024, October 7, 2024, October 31, 2024
Events: Motion to be relieved as counsel, Service of moving papers, Notice of hearing
Money: None
Intentions: To withdraw as counsel for the plaintiffs
Facts: Plaintiffs' Counsel has filed motions to be relieved as counsel for three plaintiffs, but has not properly served the plaintiffs with the motions and has not provided sufficient notice of the hearing.
Disputes: Whether Plaintiffs' Counsel has properly served the plaintiffs and provided sufficient notice of the hearing
Acts: Filing of motions to be relieved as counsel, Service of moving papers, Notice of hearing
Agreements: None
Laws: Code of Civil Procedure, California Rules of Court
Case Citations: People v. Prince (1968) 268 Cal.App.2d 398, Ramirez v. Sturdevant (1994) 21 Cal.App.4th 904
Statutes: Code of Civil Procedure sections 1005, 1013, 284
Roles: Judge (Robert B. Broadbelt III), Plaintiffs' Counsel (Carpenter & Zuckerman)
Significant Statements: The court notes the following defects with Plaintiffs' Counsel's motions... The court cannot verify that Plaintiffs' Counsel properly served Plaintiffs with the pending motions, and (2) gave Plaintiffs sufficient notice of the hearings on these motions as required by Code of Civil Procedure sections 1005 and 1013.
```

And here is a summary of the judge's tentative ruling in English text:

The judge has denied the motions filed by Carpenter & Zuckerman (Plaintiffs' Counsel) to be relieved as counsel for three plaintiffs: Danyelle Leah Sims, Chance Brown, and Elizabeth Tooley. The judge found several defects with the motions, including the fact that they did not properly serve the plaintiffs with the motions and did not provide sufficient notice of the hearing. Specifically, the judge noted that the motions did not state the address of the clients in section 1, did not file proofs of service of the moving papers on the clients, and did not provide the clients with 16 court days and 5/10 calendar days' notice of the hearing, as required by Code of Civil Procedure sections 1005 and 1013. The judge denied the motions without prejudice to Plaintiffs' Counsel filing new motions that include proofs of service and provide sufficient notice of the hearing.