  Case Number:  21STCV07940    Hearing Date:   October 31, 2024    Dept:  53 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles – Central District
Department
53
 
 




alejandra garcia

   , et al.;
 


   Plaintiffs,
 
 
vs.
 
 
city of los angeles

   , et al.;
 


   Defendants.


Case
  No.:


21STCV07940




 


 




Hearing
  Date:


October
   31, 2024




 


 




Time:





   10:00 a.m.




 


 




 
[tentative]
  Order RE:
 
(1)  
  motion
  to be relieved as counsel for plaintiff danyelle leah sims
(2)  
  motion
  to be relieved as counsel for plaintiff chance brown
(3)  
  motion
  to be relieved as counsel for plaintiff elizabeth tooley
 



 
MOVING PARTY:                 Carpenter & Zuckerman         
 
RESPONDING PARTY:       Unopposed
(1)  
Motion
to be Relieved as Counsel for Plaintiff Danyelle Leah Sims
(2)  
Motion
to be Relieved as Counsel for Plaintiff Chance Brown
(3)  
Motion
to be Relieved as Counsel for Plaintiff Elizabeth Tooley
The court
considered the moving papers filed in connection with each motion.  No opposition papers were filed. 
DISCUSSION
Carpenter & Zuckerman (“Plaintiffs’ Counsel”) separately moves to
be relieved as counsel for (1) plaintiff Danyelle Leah Sims (“Sims”), (2) plaintiff
Chance Brown (“Brown”), and (3) plaintiff Elizabeth Tooley (“Tooley”)
(collectively, “Plaintiffs”).  The court
has discussed Plaintiffs’ Counsel’s three motions together. 
“The question of granting or denying an application of an attorney to
withdraw as counsel (Code Civ. Proc., § 284, subd. 2) is one which lies within
the sound discretion of the trial court ‘having in mind whether such withdrawal
might work an injustice in the handling of the case.’”¿ (People v. Prince
(1968) 268 Cal.App.2d 398, 406 [internal quotations omitted].)¿ The court
should also consider whether the attorney’s “withdrawal can be accomplished
without undue prejudice to the client’s interests.”¿ (Ramirez v. Sturdevant (1994)
21 Cal.App.4th 904, 915.)¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿ 
For a motion to be relieved as counsel under Code of Civil Procedure
section 284, subdivision (2), California Rules of Court, rule 3.1362 requires
(1) a notice of motion and motion directed to the client (made on the Notice of
Motion and Motion to be Relieved as Counsel -- Civil form (MC-051)); (2) a
declaration stating in general terms and without compromising the
confidentiality of the attorney-client relationship why a motion under Code of
Civil Procedure section 284, subdivision (2) is brought instead of filing a
consent under Code of Civil Procedure section 284, subdivision (1) (made on the
Declaration in Support of Attorney’s Motion to Be Relieved as Counsel -- Civil
form (MC-052)); (3) service of the notice of motion and motion, declaration,
and proposed order on the client and on all other parties who have appeared in
the case; and (4) the proposed order relieving counsel (prepared on the Order
Granting Attorney’s Motion to Be Relieved as Counsel -- Civil form
(MC-053)).¿¿¿ 
The court notes the following defects with Plaintiffs’ Counsel’s
motions.
First, the notices of motions and motions to be relieved as counsel do
not state the address of the clients in section 1 as required.  (MC-051 as to plaintiff Sims, ¶ 1; MC-051 as
to plaintiff Brown, ¶ 1; MC-051 as to plaintiff Tooley, ¶ 1.) 
            Second, the court finds that
Plaintiffs’ Counsel has not shown that it served Plaintiffs with the pending
motions within the time required by the Code of Civil Procedure since it has
not filed proofs of service of the moving papers as to Plaintiffs. 
            The court acknowledges that
Plaintiffs’ Counsel has stated, in the “Declaration[s] in Support of Attorney’s
Motion[s] to be Relieved as Counsel—Civil,” that each of the plaintiffs have
been served with the moving papers by mail at their last known addresses.  (MC-052 as to plaintiff Sims, ¶ 3, subd.
(a)(2); MC-052 as to plaintiff Brown, ¶ 3, subd. (a)(2); MC-052 as to plaintiff
Tooley, ¶ 3, subd. (a)(2).)  However,
Plaintiffs’ Counsel did not file proofs of such service on Plaintiffs with the
court establishing the dates and addresses on which service was made as
required. 
            Further, even if the court were to
assume that Plaintiffs’ Counsel served Plaintiffs with the pending motions on
the dates that it filed the motions to be relieved as their counsel, it appears
that Plaintiffs’ Counsel did not give Plaintiffs sufficient notice of the
hearing on these motions.  
As to plaintiff Sims, it appears that her mailing address is outside
the State of California.  (MC-053 as to
plaintiff Sims, ¶ 6 [listing Sims’s address to be in Glenwood, Illinois].)  In the case of service by mail, “any period of
notice . . . shall be extended . . . 10 calendar days if either the place of
mailing or the place of address is outside the State of California but within
the United States . . . .”  (Code Civ.
Proc., § 1013, subd. (a).)  To the extent
that Plaintiffs’ Counsel served plaintiff Sims with the moving papers filed in
connection with the motion to be relieved as her counsel on October 3, 2024
(i.e., the date the motion was filed) by mail at Sims’s Illinois address, that
would not have provided her with 16 court days and 10 calendar days’ notice of
the hearing on this motion.  (Code Civ.
Proc., §§ 1005, subd. (b), 1013, subd. (a).) 
As to plaintiffs Brown and Tooley, who appear to have mailing
addresses in California, to the extent that Plaintiffs’ Counsel served them
with the moving papers filed in connection with the motions to be relieved as
their counsel on October 7, 2024 (i.e., the date the motions were filed) by
mail at their respective California addresses, such service would not have
provided them with 16 court days and 5 calendar days’ notice of hearing on
these motions.  (MC-053 as to plaintiff
Brown, ¶ 6 [listing Brown’s address to be in Santa Cruz, California]; MC-053 as
to plaintiff Tooley, ¶ 6 [listing Tooley’s address to be in Los Angeles,
California]; Code Civ. Proc., §§ 1005, subd. (b), 1013, subd. (a) [any period
of notice “shall be extended five calendar days, upon service by mail, if the
place of address and the place of mailing is within the State of California”].)

Thus, the court cannot verify that Plaintiffs’ Counsel (1) properly
served Plaintiffs with the pending motions, and (2) gave Plaintiffs sufficient
notice of the hearings on these motions as required by Code of Civil Procedure
sections 1005 and 1013.
            The court therefore denies Carpenter
& Zuckerman’s (1) motion to be relieved as counsel for plaintiff Sims, (2) motion
to be relieved as counsel for plaintiff Brown, and (3) motion to be relieved as
counsel for plaintiff Tooley.  The court
denies Carpenter & Zuckerman’s motions without prejudice to Carpenter &
Zuckerman’s filing new motions that include proofs of service of the moving
papers on the clients and that provide the clients with sufficient notice of
the hearing on the motions.
            The court orders Carpenter &
Zuckerman to give notice of this ruling.
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
DATED:  October 31, 2024
 
_____________________________
Robert
B. Broadbelt III
Judge
of the Superior Court