 Case Number:  21STCV26547    Hearing Date:   October 31, 2024    Dept:  53 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles – Central District
Department
53
 
 




david maijala

   ;
 


   Plaintiff,
 
 
vs.
 
 
mulgrew aircraft components
   inc.

   , et al.;
 


   Defendants.


Case
  No.:


21STCV26547




 


 




Hearing
  Date:


October
   31, 2024




 


 




Time:





   8:30 a.m.




 


 




 
Order
  RE:
 
ex parte application to file documents under
  seal
 



 
Ex Parte Application to File Documents Under Seal
Defendant Mulgrew Aircraft Components, Inc. (“Defendant”) requests
that the court issue an order filing under seal “Exhibit O,” lodged with the
court conditionally under seal in support of its motion for summary judgment,
as attached to “Cross-Complainant and Defendant Mulgrew Aircraft Components,
Inc.’s Application for an Order Under Seal re: Confidential Documents Subject
to a Protective Order; Memorandum of Points and Authorities; and Declaration of
Scott M. Nenni in Support.”[1]
Generally, court records are presumed to be open unless
confidentiality is required by law.¿ (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 2.550, subd.
(c).)¿ If the presumption of access applies, the court may order that a record
be filed under seal “if it expressly finds facts that establish: (1) There
exists an overriding interest that overcomes the right of public access to the
record; (2) The overriding interest supports sealing the record; (3) A
substantial probability exists that the overriding interest will be prejudiced
if the record is not sealed; (4) The proposed sealing is narrowly tailored; and
(5) No less restrictive means exist to achieve the overriding interest.”¿ (Cal.
Rules of Court, rule 2.550, subd. (d).)¿¿¿ 
The court finds that (1) there exists an overriding interest that
overcomes the right of public access to Exhibit O because Defendant has
submitted evidence showing that (i) exhibit O-1 includes information regarding
Defendant’s trade secrets, and (ii) exhibit O-2 includes privileged,
proprietary and confidential documents belonging to Defendant and its
customers, vendors, and employees, (2) the overriding interest supports sealing
the record so that Defendant’s trade secrets and the privileged information of
Defendant and its customers, vendors, and employees remain confidential, (3) a substantial
probability exists that the overriding interest will be prejudiced if the
record is not sealed, (4) the proposed sealing is narrowly tailored, and (5) no
less restrictive means exist to achieve the overriding interest.”¿ (Cal. Rules
of Court, rule 2.550, subd. (d); Nenni Decl., ¶¶ 3 [exhibit O-1 includes
misappropriated documents and exhibit O-2 is “[a] representative sample of
misappropriated Mulgrew documents which are not necessarily trade secrets, but
which include privileged and confidential documents”], 8 [“The records must be
filed under seal on pain of waiving both trade secrets protections for Exhibit
O-1, and generally privileges for confidential and proprietary documents for
Exhibit O-2[,]” and certain documents include information belonging to
Defendant’s customers, vendors, and employees].) 
The court therefore grants Defendant’s ex parte application to seal. 
The court orders that the unredacted version of “Cross-Complainant and
Defendant Mulgrew Aircraft Components, Inc.’s Application for an Order Under
Seal re: Confidential Documents Subject to a Protective Order; Memorandum of
Points and Authorities; and Declaration of Scott M. Nenni in Support,” lodged
with the court on or around August 9, 2024, shall be filed under seal.
The court orders defendant Mulgrew Aircraft Components, Inc. to
electronically file with the court a redacted version of “Cross-Complainant and
Defendant Mulgrew Aircraft Components, Inc.’s Application for an Order Under
Seal re: Confidential Documents Subject to a Protective Order; Memorandum of
Points and Authorities; and Declaration of Scott M. Nenni in Support” that (1)
identifies it as “Public-Redacts materials from sealed record,” and (2) redacts
Exhibit O. 
Pursuant to California Rules of Court, rule 2.551, subdivision (e),
the court directs the clerk to file this order, maintain the records ordered
sealed in a secure manner, and clearly identify the records as sealed by this
order.¿¿¿¿¿ 
The court orders defendant Mulgrew Aircraft Components, Inc. to give
notice of this ruling.
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
DATED:  October 31, 2024
 
_____________________________
Robert
B. Broadbelt III
Judge
of the Superior Court


