 Case Number:  24PDUD02239    Hearing Date:   October 31, 2024    Dept:  53 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles – Central District
Department
53
 
 




redwood holdings, llc

   ;
 


   Plaintiff,
 
 
vs.
 
 
roberta f. morrissey

   , et al.;
 


   Defendants.


Case
  No.:


24PDUD02239




 


 




Hearing
  Date:


October
   31, 2024




 


 




Time:





   10:00 a.m.




 


 




 
[tentative]
  Order RE:
 
(1)  
  plaintiff’s
  motion to deem matters admitted and for sanctions
(2)  
  plaintiff’s
  motion to compel production of documents and request for monetary sanctions
(3)  
  plaintiff’s
  motion to compel responses to interrogatories and request for monetary
  sanctions
 



 
MOVING PARTY:                 Plaintiff Redwood Holdings, LLC     
 
RESPONDING PARTY:       Defendant Roberta F. Morrissey
(1)  
Motion
to Deem Requests for Admission Admitted and for Sanctions
(2)  
Motion
to Compel Production of Documents and Request for Sanctions
(3)  
Motion
to Compel Responses to Interrogatories and Request for Sanctions
The court
considered the moving, consolidated opposition, and consolidated reply papers
filed in connection with each motion.[1]
MOTION TO DEEM REQUESTS FOR ADMISSION
ADMITTED AND FOR SANCTIONS
Plaintiff Redwood Holdings,
LLC (“Plaintiff”) moves the court for an order (1) deeming admitted the truth
of the matters specified in the Requests for Admission served on defendant
Roberta F. Morrissey (“Defendant”), and (2) awarding monetary sanctions in
favor of Plaintiff and against Defendant. 
If a party to whom requests
for admission are directed fails to serve a timely response, the court shall,
upon motion by the propounding party, order that the matters specified in the
requests be deemed admitted unless the court finds that the party to whom the
requests for admission have been directed has served substantially compliant
responses before the hearing on the motion.¿ (Code Civ. Proc., § 2033.280,
subds. (b), (c).)¿¿¿¿¿¿ 
Plaintiff has submitted
evidence showing that it served on Defendant its Requests for Admission, Set
One, on July 24, 2024 by mail and email. 
(Chandra Decl., Ex. 1, p. 3 [proof of service].)  Defendant did not serve responses within the
time required.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2033.250,
subd. (b) [“in an unlawful detainer action . . . the party to whom the request
is directed shall have at least five days from the date of service to respond .
. . .”].)  
Defendant has filed an
opposition to this motion, contending that Plaintiff violated Department 53’s expectation
that the parties meet and confer to make a reasonable and good faith effort to
resolve each discovery issue in dispute, and asserting that Defendant has
multiple challenges that make responding to discovery difficult.  (Consolidated Opp., pp. 4:10-5:5;
Opdahl-Lopez Decl., ¶¶ 5-6.)  But
Defendant (1) did not request, by ex parte application or noticed motion, that
the court extend the time to respond to this discovery, or (2) present evidence
showing that Defendant has, before the hearing on this motion, served a
proposed response to Plaintiff’s Requests for Admission that is in substantial
compliance with section 2033.220.  (Code
Civ. Proc., §§ 2033.250, subd. (b) [party has five days to respond “unless on
motion of the responding party the court has extended the time for response”],
2033.280, subd. (c) [the court shall deem admissions admitted unless the
responding party has served proposed responses in substantial compliance with
section 2033.220].) 
The court therefore grants
Plaintiff’s motion to deem the truth of the matters specified in the requests
for admission admitted.  (Code Civ.
Proc., § 2033.280, subds. (b), (c).) 
The court grants Plaintiff’s
request for monetary sanctions against Defendant.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2033.280, subd.
(c).)  The court finds that $555 ((1 hour
at the hourly rate of $495) + $60 filing fee) is a reasonable amount of
sanctions to impose against Defendant in connection with this motion.  (Chandra Decl., ¶¶ 8-11.) 
The court denies Defendant’s
request for monetary sanctions against Plaintiff. 
MOTION TO COMPEL PRODUCTION OF DOCUMENTS
AND FOR MONETARY SANCTIONS
Plaintiff moves the court for
an order (1) compelling Defendant to serve responses to Plaintiff’s Requests
for Production of Documents, Set One, and (2) awarding monetary sanctions in
favor of Plaintiff and against Defendant in the amount of $555. 
If a party to whom a demand
for inspection is directed fails to serve a timely response, the party making
the demand may move for an order compelling response to the demand.¿ (Code Civ.
Proc., §¿2031.300, subd. (b).)¿¿ 
Plaintiff served Defendant
with its Requests for Production of Documents, Set One, on July 24, 2024 by
mail and email.  (Chandra Decl., Ex. 1,
p. 4 [proof of service].)  Defendant did
not serve timely responses and had not served responses as of the date that
Plaintiff filed this motion.  (Chandra
Decl., ¶¶ 5, 10; Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.260, subd. (b) [“in an unlawful
detainer action . . . , the party to whom a demand for inspection, copying,
testing, or sampling is directed shall have at leas five days from the date of
service of the demand to respond”].) 
Defendant has not presented argument or evidence, in her opposition
papers, showing that she timely served responses to this discovery or has since
served responses. 
The court therefore grants
Plaintiff’s motion to compel Defendant to serve responses and produce
responsive documents to its Requests for Production of Documents.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.300, subd. (b).) 
The court grants Plaintiff’s
request for monetary sanctions against Defendant.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.300, subd.
(c).)  The court finds that $555 ((1 hour
at the hourly rate of $495) + $60 filing fee) is a reasonable amount of
sanctions to impose against Defendant in connection with this motion.  (Chandra Decl., ¶¶ 12-13.) 
The court denies Defendant’s
request for monetary sanctions against Plaintiff. 
MOTION TO COMPEL RESPONSES TO
INTERROGATORIES AND FOR MONETARY SANCTIONS
Plaintiff moves the court for
an order (1) compelling Defendant to serve responses to Plaintiff’s (i) Form
Interrogatories, Set One (Unlawful Detainer), (ii) Form Interrogatories, Set Two
(General), and (iii) Special Interrogatories, Set One, and (2) awarding
monetary sanctions in favor of Plaintiff and against Defendant in the amount of
$555. 
If a party to whom interrogatories are directed fails to serve a
timely response, the propounding party may move for an order compelling
response to the interrogatories.¿ (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.290, subd.
(b).)¿ 
Plaintiff served Defendant with Plaintiff’s Form Interrogatories, Sets
One and Two, and Special Interrogatories, Set One, by mail and email on July
24, 2024.  (Chandra Decl., Ex. 4 [proof
of service of discovery].)  Defendant did
not serve timely responses and had not served responses as of the date that
Plaintiff filed this motion.  (Chandra
Decl., ¶¶ 5, 10; Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.260, subd. (b) [“in an unlawful detainer action . . . , the party to whom
interrogatories are propounded shall have five days from the date of service to
respond . . . .”].)  Defendant has not
presented argument or evidence, in her opposition papers, showing that she
timely served responses to this discovery or has since served responses. 
The court therefore grants
Plaintiff’s motion to compel Defendant to serve responses to its Form
Interrogatories, Set One (Unlawful Detainer), Form Interrogatories, Set Two
(General), and Special Interrogatories, Set One.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.290, subd. (b).) 
The court grants Plaintiff’s
request for monetary sanctions against Defendant.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.290, subd.
(c).)  The court finds that $555 ((1 hour
at the hourly rate of $495) + $60 filing fee) is a reasonable amount of
sanctions to impose against Defendant in connection with this motion.  (Chandra Decl., ¶¶ 12-14.)  
The court denies Defendant’s
request for monetary sanctions against Plaintiff.
ORDER
            The court grants plaintiff Redwood Holdings, LLC’s motion to deem requests for admission admitted
and for sanctions.
Pursuant to Code of Civil
Procedure section 2033.280, the court orders that the truth of the matters
specified in plaintiff Redwood Holdings, LLC’s Requests for Admission, set One,
served on defendant Roberta F. Morrissey, is deemed admitted. 
            The court grants plaintiff Redwood Holdings, LLC’s motion to compel production of documents and
for monetary sanctions. 
            Pursuant
to Code of Civil Procedure section 2031.300, the court orders defendant Roberta
F. Morrissey (1) to serve on plaintiff Redwood Holdings, LLC full and complete
verified responses, without objections, to plaintiff Redwood Holdings, LLC’s
Requests for Production of Documents, Set One, which comply with Code of Civil
Procedure sections 2031.210-2031.250, and (2) to produce to plaintiff Redwood
Holdings, LLC all documents and things in defendant Roberta F. Morrissey’s
possession, custody, or control which are responsive to those requests, within five
days of the date of service of this order. 
            The court grants plaintiff Redwood Holdings, LLC’s motion to compel responses to interrogatories
and for monetary sanctions. 
            Pursuant
to Code of Civil Procedure section 2030.290, the court orders defendant Roberta
F. Morrissey to serve full and complete verified answers, without objections,
and that comply with Code of Civil Procedure sections 2030.220-2030.250, within
five days of the date of service of this order, to plaintiff Redwood Holdings,
LLC’s (1) Form Interrogatories, Set One (Unlawful Detainer), (2) Form
Interrogatories, Set Two (General), and (3) Special Interrogatories, Set One.
The court orders defendant
Roberta F. Morrissey to pay monetary sanctions in the total amount of $1,665 to
plaintiff Redwood Holdings, LLC within 30 days of the date of service of this
order. 
 
 
 
            The court orders plaintiff Redwood Holdings, LLC to
give notice of this ruling.
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
DATED:  October 31, 2024
 
_____________________________
Robert
B. Broadbelt III
Judge
of the Superior Court


