 Case Number:  21STCV27393    Hearing Date:   October 31, 2024    Dept:  53 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles – Central District
Department
53
 
 




rosa marie samples, as trustee of the Maria A. Gonzalez Living Trust
   dated 2020 and as executrix of the Last Will and Testament of Maria A. Gonzalez,
   deceased

   ;
 


   Plaintiff,
 
 
vs.
 
 
northern california
   mortgage fund xiv, llc

   , et al.;
 


   Defendants.


Case
  No.:


21STCV27393




 


 




Hearing
  Date:


October
   31, 2024




 


 




Time:





   10:00 a.m.




 


 




 
[tentative]
  Order RE:
 
plaintiff’s motion to continue trial and
  reschedule discovery and motion dates
 



 
MOVING PARTY:                 Plaintiff Rosa Marie Samples,
as trustee of the Maria A. Gonzalez Living Trust dated 2020 and as executrix of
the Last Will and Testament of Maria A. Gonzalez, deceased         
 
RESPONDING PARTIES:    (1) Defendant Northern California Mortgage
Fund XIV, LLC, and (2) Defendant Luz Velasquez
Motion to Continue Trial and Reschedule Discovery and Motion Dates
The court
considered the moving, opposition, and reply papers filed in connection with
this motion. 
REQUEST FOR JUDICIAL NOTICE
The court denies defendant
Northern California Mortgage Fund XIV, LLC’s request for judicial notice
because the matters of which the court is requested to take judicial notice are
not relevant to the court’s ruling on this motion.  (Malek Media Group LLC v. AXWG Corp. (2020)
58 Cal.App.5th 817, 825 [“Any matter to be judicially noticed must be relevant
to a material issue”].) 
DISCUSSION
Plaintiff Rosa Marie Samples, as trustee of the Maria A. Gonzalez
Living Trust dated 2020 and as executrix of the Last Will and Testament of
Maria A. Gonzalez, deceased (“Plaintiff”) moves the court for an order (1)
continuing trial from November 20, 2024 to at least May 14, 2025, or any date
thereafter convenient to the court, and (2) reopening discovery to follow the
new trial date. 
The court finds that Plaintiff has not shown good cause to continue
trial and to reopen discovery to follow the new trial date and therefore denies
Plaintiff’s motion.  (Cal. Rules of Ct.,
rule 3.1332, subd. (c) [“The court may grant a continuance only on an
affirmative showing of good cause requiring the continuance”].) 
The court acknowledges that Plaintiff substituted in new counsel to
represent her on July 29, 2024.  (Mot.,
p. 4:10-13.)  However, the July 2024
substitution has provided counsel with over three months to prepare this case
for trial.  Thus, the court finds that
the substitution of counsel does not establish good cause to continue trial in
this action.   Further, while Plaintiff
has asserted that the parties have not completed discovery, Plaintiff has not
shown that she has not been able to obtain this discovery “despite diligent
efforts[.]”  (Mot., p. 4:8 [“The Parties
have not completed depositions”]; Cal. Rules of Ct., rule 3.1332, subd.
(c)(6).)  
The court further finds that the remaining defendants in this action
would be prejudiced by a continuance of trial (1) in light of the age of this
case, which was filed on July 26, 2021 and is therefore approximately
three-and-a-half years old, and (2) because trial is set for November 20, 2024,
i.e., less than 30 days after the date of the hearing on this motion.  (Cal. Rules of Ct., rule 3.1332, subd. (d)(5)
[the court may consider “[t]he prejudice that parties or witnesses will suffer
as a result of the continuance”], (d)(10) [the court may consider whether the
interests of justice are best served by a continuance].) 
The court notes that counsel for defendant Luz Velasquez has filed a
declaration with the court, in which defendant Velasquez “requests that the
trial be continued 90-120 days” because (1) counsel is wrapping up his practice
and leaving counsel’s firm, and (2) counsel’s firm does not presently have
another attorney who can handle a civil litigation trial as a first chair.  (Green Decl., ¶¶ 3-4.)  The court, however, finds that it is not
appropriate to rule on defendant Velasquez’s request for affirmative relief in
connection with the pending motion brought by Plaintiff.
ORDER
            The court denies plaintiff Rosa
Marie Samples, as trustee of the Maria A. Gonzalez Living Trust dated 2020 and
as executrix of the Last Will and Testament of Maria A. Gonzalez, deceased’s
motion to continue trial and reschedule discovery and motion dates. 
            The court orders defendant Northern California Mortgage Fund
XIV, LLC to give notice of this ruling.
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
DATED:  October 31, 2024
 
_____________________________
Robert
B. Broadbelt III
Judge
of the Superior Court