  Case Number:  21SMCV00142    Hearing Date:   February 9, 2024    Dept:  N TENTATIVE RULING Plaintiff Benjamin Avi Harris’ Application for Default Judgment is CONTINUED to a date to be determined at the hearing to allow Plaintiff to submit supplemental evidence as set forth below. REASONING Plaintiff Benjamin Avi Harris’ Application for Default Judgment contains several deficiencies which must be remedied before the Court can enter judgment in Plaintiff’s favor.First, Plaintiff has not provided a declaration of non-military service or proposed judgment as required by rule 3.1800(a) of the California Rules of Court. If Plaintiff believes he is relieved from this requirements, he must provide the Court with authority so stating.Second, the Court requires a declaration describing the costs sought in the memorandum of costs so the Court may determine whether the requested amounts are for reasonably necessary costs. (Code Civ. Proc., § 1033.5, subd. (c)(2).)Third, the Court requires a breakdown in a chart describing the basis for $37,900 in compensatory damages for failure to pay rent so the Court may determine whether the amount properly reflects the amount owed, including an accounting of security deposit.Further, it is axiomatic that “[p]laintiffs in a default judgment proceeding must prove they are entitled to the damages claimed.” (Kim v. Westmore Partners, Inc. (2011) 201 Cal.App.4th 267, 288.) While a default generally admits the allegations of the complaint, this does not relieve a plaintiff of a duty to establish causation and damages. (See Ostling v. Loring (1994) 27 Cal.App.4th 1731, 1745 [sufficiency of evidence supporting default is not reviewed only “as to matters for which no proof is required by virtue of the admission by default of the allegations of the complaint ... as to damages which, despite default, require proof the general rule does not apply”].)  Here, Plaintiff fails to prove he is entitled to emotional distress damages. While Plaintiff describes that he suffers from anxiety as a result of Defendant Arash Jaromi’s call to law enforcement, he states Jaharomi saw a man approach him from the exterior of the household and he hurried in.  Thereafter Plaintiff testifies that he allowed the process server to enter the household.  It is  not unreasonable for an individual to suspect a burglary when an unknown individual, here, a process server, approaches a residence. Further, law enforcement does not generally act at the instruction of a private individual, such that holding Defendant accountable for law enforcement’s conduct appears improper when Defendant simply placed a call to law enforcement, which he was legally entitled to do. Even assuming Plaintiff had sufficiently established claims for false imprisonment and private nuisance based on the call to law enforcement, Plaintiff fails to show that he suffered $200,000 in damages from this conduct. The Court lacks a basis to conclude that fear of being in one’s home, when Plaintiff provides no evidence that he paid to stay in another location, or stress resulting in asking for deadline extensions at work, when Plaintiff provides no evidence that he suffered any negative employment consequences, can support such a large claim for damages.Plaintiff shall amend his default judgment package to cure these deficiencies as determined at the hearing on Plaintiff's default package.