 Case Number:  22STCV19263    Hearing Date:   August 16, 2024    Dept:  29 Mudsyan v. Daniyelyan
22STCV19263
Motion of Glendale Dodge for Summary Judgment or, in the Alternative, for
Summary Adjudication of Issues


Tentative
The Court will call this matter and hear from counsel.  In addition to the argument that counsel may
wish to make, the Court would like to hear from counsel on the following
issues.
No. 1.  As to the
respondeat superior issue (on the First and Second Causes of Action in Plaintiffs’
FAC, for negligence and negligence per se), Glendale Dodge contends that the
accident occurred during Mr. Garcia’s lunch break.  Plaintiff cites evidence, including the
testimony of Mr. Garcia, to the effect that he was picking up food at the request
and/or direction of his supervisor, Mr. Walden. 
Our Supreme Court has stated, “Ordinarily, the determination whether an
employee has acted within the scope of employment presents a question of fact;
it becomes a question of law, however, when the facts are undisputed and no
conflicting inferences are possible.”  (Lisa
M. v. Henry Mayo Newhall Memorial Hospital (1995) 12 Cal.4th 291, 299.)  On this record, can the respondeat superior
issue be decided on summary judgment?
No. 2.  On the Third
Cause of Action (negligent hiring, supervision, and/or retention), Glendale
Dodge contends that driving was, at most, an incidental to Mr. Garcia’s
employment.  Mr. Garcia testifies
otherwise.  On this record, are there
disputed material facts as to (a) whether driving was part of Mr. Garcia’s
ordinary (even if only occasional) job responsibilities and (b) whether, given Mr.
Garcia’s driving record, it was a breach of the duty of care for Glendale Dodge
to hire and retain him in his position as a sales associate?
No. 3.  On the Fourth
Cause of Action (negligent entrustment), it is undisputed on this record that Glendale
Dodge not own or control the vehicle that Mr. Garcia was driving at the time of
the accident.  (Defendant’s Statement of
Undisputed Material Facts, No. 7.)  The
Court’s tentative ruling is to grant summary adjudication to Glendale Dodge as
to this cause of action.
No. 4.  Glendale Dodge
moves for summary judgment/summary adjudication not only as to Plaintiffs’ FAC
but also as to the cross-complaint filed by Akop
and Ovsep Daniyelyan.  It appears from
the moving papers (Mem. at 1:20-23) that Glendale Dodge, at least, contends
that there is an overlap of issues: that the motion should be granted as to the
Daniyelyans’ cross-complaint for the same reasons that it should be granted as
to Plaintiffs’ FAC.  Does that mean that
if the Court denies Glendale Dodge’s motion (in whole or in part) as to
Plaintiffs’ FAC, it should also deny the motion as to the Daniyelyans’
cross-complaint?
 
 
Background
This case arises out of an automobile
accident on September 17, 2020, on Brand Boulevard near the intersection of
Maple Street in Glendale.  According to
the Complaint, Sarkees Nigoghos Sarkeesian (“Decedent”) was walking along the
sidewalk on Brand Boulevard when two moving vehicles collided, then made impact
with a parked vehicle, and then hit and killed him.
On June 13, 2022, Plaintiffs Fyona
Mudsyan, Nigoghos Nigoghos, Anita Sarkeesian-Asadorian, and the Estate of
Sarkees Nigoghos Sarkeesian by and through its Successor-In-Interest Fyona
Mudsyan (collectively “Plaintiffs”) filed the complaint against Defendants Akop Daniyelyan, Ovsep Daniyelyan (collectively, the
“Daniyelyans”), Alejandro Garcia, Mariana Garcia (collectively, the “Garcias”),
Glendale Dodge, LLC (“Glendale Dodge”), and Does 1 through 100.  Plaintiffs asserted causes of action for (1)
Negligence, (2) Negligence Per Se, (3) Negligent Hiring, Supervision
and/or Retention, and (4) Negligent Entrustment.  Subsequently, on
November 17, 2022, Plaintiffs filed a First Amended Complaint (“FAC”) asserting
the same four causes of action against the same defendants.
On August 15 and September 1, 2022, the
Garcias filed their answers.  The Garcias
also each filed a cross-complaint against the Daniyelyans and Moes 1 through
50.  Subsequently, on July 29, 2024, the
Garcias filed an amended cross-complaint against the Daniyelyans, Glendale
Dodge, and Roes 1 through 100.
On December 19, 2022, the Daniyelyans
filed an answer to the FAC.  The Daniyelyans
also filed a cross-complaint the Garcias, Glendale Dodge, and Zoes 1 through
50.
On December 20, 2022, Glendale Dodge filed
an answer to the FAC.  Glendale Dodge
also filed a cross-complaint against the Daniyelyans and Roes 1 through 100.
On August 17, 2023, Glendale Dodge filed this motion for
summary judgment or, in the alternative, for summary adjudication of
issues.  The motion is directed to both:
(1) Plaintiffs’ FAC and (2) the cross-complaint filed against Glendale Dodge by
the Daniyelyans.
On August 2, 2024, Plaintiffs filed an opposition to the
motion.
Also on August 2, the Garcias filed an opposition (even though
Glendale Dodge did not seek any relief against them) and an objection to some
of Glendale Dodge’s evidence. 
The Daniyelyans did not file any opposition to Glendale
Dodge’s motion.
On August 8, Glendale Dodge filed a reply, along with
objections to some of Plaintiffs’ evidence.
Legal Standard
“The purpose of the law of summary judgment
is to provide courts with a mechanism to cut through the parties’ pleadings in
order to determine whether, despite their allegations, trial is in fact
necessary to resolve their dispute.” (Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co.
(2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 843.) Code of Civil Procedure section 437c, subdivision
(c), “requires the trial judge to grant summary judgment if all the evidence
submitted, and ‘all inferences reasonably deducible from the evidence’ and
uncontradicted by other inferences or evidence, show that there is no triable
issue as to any material fact and that the moving party is entitled to judgment
as a matter of law.” (Adler v. Manor Healthcare Corp. (1992) 7
Cal.App.4th 1110, 1119.) “The function of the pleadings in a motion for summary
judgment is to delimit the scope of the issues; the function of the affidavits
or declarations is to disclose whether there is any triable issue of fact
within the issues delimited by the pleadings.” (Juge v. County of Sacramento
(1993) 12 Cal.App.4th 59, 67, citing FPI Development, Inc. v. Nakashima
(1991) 231 Cal.App.3d 367, 381-382.)
As to each cause of action as framed by the
complaint, a defendant moving for summary judgment or summary adjudication must
satisfy the initial burden of proof by presenting facts to show “that one or
more elements of the cause of action ... cannot be established, or that there
is a complete defense to the cause of action.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd.
(p)(2); see also Aguilar, supra, 25 Cal.4th at pp. 850-851; Scalf
v. D. B. Log Homes, Inc. (2005) 128 Cal.App.4th 1510, 1520.) Once the
defendant has met that burden, the burden shifts to the plaintiff to show that
a “triable issue of one or more material facts exists as to the cause of action
or a defense thereto.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (p)(2); see also Aguilar,
supra, 25 Cal.4th at pp. 850-851.)
A plaintiff or cross-complainant moving for
summary judgment or summary adjudication must satisfy the initial burden of
proof by presenting facts to show “that there is no defense to a cause of
action if that party has proved each element of the cause of action entitling
the party to judgment on the cause of action.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd.
(p)(1).) Once the plaintiff or cross-complainant has met that burden, the
burden shift to the defendant or cross-defendant to show that a “triable issue
of one or more material facts exists as to the cause of action or a defense
thereto.” (Ibid.)
The party opposing a motion for summary
judgment or summary adjudication may not simply “rely upon the allegations or
denials of its pleadings” but must instead “set forth the specific facts
showing that a triable issue of material fact exists.” (Code Civ. Proc., §
437c, subds. (p)(1) & (p)(2). To establish a triable issue of material
fact, the party opposing the motion must produce substantial responsive
evidence. (Sangster v. Paetkau (1998) 68 Cal.App.4th 151, 166.)
Courts “liberally construe the evidence in
support of the party opposing summary judgment and resolve doubts concerning
the evidence in favor of that party.” (Dore v. Arnold Worldwide, Inc.
(2006) 39 Cal.4th 384, 389.)
Preliminary
Issue
As
a preliminary matter, the Court finds that even though Glendale Dodge seeks no
relief directly against the Garcias, the Garcias may nonetheless be heard in
connection with this motion.  Under the
provisions of Code of Civil Procedure section 437c, subdivision (l), the rights
of the Garcias could be affected by a ruling on this motion.
Objections to Evidence
Glendale Dodge objects to some of Plaintiffs’
evidence, and the Garcias object to some of Glendale Dodge’s evidence.  Evidence presented in support of, or in
opposition to, a motion for summary judgment must be admissible. (Code Civ.
Proc., § 437c, subd. (d); Perry v. Bakewell Hawthorne LLC (2017) 2
Cal.5th 536, 541-43.) The court must “consider all of the evidence set forth in
the papers, except the evidence to which objections have been made and
sustained.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (c).)
The Court has considered each of Glendale Dodge’s four
objections.  They are OVERRULED.
The Court has considered each of the Garcias’ nine
objections.  They are OVERRULED.
Discussion
Plaintiffs assert four causes of action in the FAC against
Glendale Dodge.  The allegations against
Glendale Dodge in the First Cause of Action (negligence) and the Second Cause
of Action (negligence per se) are based on vicarious liability (respondeat
superior): Plaintiffs allege that the accident at issue was caused (at least in
part) by the negligence of Defendant Alejandro Garcia (“Garcia”), and that the accident
occurred while Garcia was acting within the course of his employment with
Glendale Dodge.  (FAC, ¶¶ 15-17, 29-30,
36-37, 43-45, 47, 51-52, 55-56, 58.)  In
the Third Cause of Action (negligent hiring, supervision, and/or retention),
Plaintiffs allege that Glendale Dodge was negligent in hiring, supervising,
and/or retaining Garcia.  (Id., ¶¶ 62-67.)  In the Fourth Cause of Action (negligent
entrustment), Plaintiffs allege that Glendale Dodge negligently entrusted to
Garcia the vehicle that he was driving at the time of the accident.  (Id., ¶¶ 78-79.)
In their cross-complaint against Glendale Dodge, the Daniyelyans
assert three causes of action: (1) indemnification; (2) apportionment of fault;
and (3) declaratory relief.
Glendale Dodge moves for summary judgment as to both
Plaintiffs’ FAC and the Daniyelyans’ cross-complaint.  In the alternative, Glendale Dodge moves for
summary adjudication as to each cause of action in Plaintiffs’ FAC and the
Daniyelyans’ cross-complaint.
The Court will hear from counsel.
 
Conclusion
The Court will hear from counsel.
 