 Case Number:  24STCV02136    Hearing Date:   December 5, 2024    Dept:  48  
 
 
SUPERIOR
COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



PARVIN HASHEMI, by and through her Successor-in-Interest,
  Sean Hash, et al., 
                        Plaintiffs,
            vs.
 
BEVERLY HILLS REHABILITATION CENTRE, LLC,
 
                        Defendant.


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


     
  CASE NO.: 24STCV02136
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER GRANTING IN PART MOTION
  TO COMPEL ARBITRATION AND STAY ACTION
 
Dept. 48
8:30 a.m.
December 5, 2024



 
On July 16, 2024, Plaintiffs
Parvin Hashemi (by and through her Successor-in-Interest, Sean Hash), Sean Hash,
and Raymond Hash filed this action against Defendant Beverly Hills Rehabilitation
Centre LLC.
On
September 4, 2024, Defendant filed a motion to compel arbitration and stay the action.
DISCUSSION
When
seeking to compel arbitration of a plaintiff’s claims, the defendant must allege
the existence of an agreement to arbitrate. 
(Condee v. Longwood Management Corp. (2001) 88 Cal.App.4th 215, 219.)  “[T]he right to compel arbitration depends upon
the existence of a valid agreement to arbitrate between the parties.”  (Garrison v. Superior Court (2005) 132
Cal.App.4th 253, 263 (Garrison).) 
“The party seeking to compel arbitration bears the burden of proving the
existence of a valid arbitration agreement.” 
(Flores v. Evergreen at San Diego, LLC (2007) 148 Cal.App.4th 581,
586 (Flores).) 
The
arbitration agreement identifies Hashemi as the Resident and states that all claims
and disputes with Defendant will be determined by binding arbitration.  (Flores Decl., Ex. A [“Arbitration Agreement”].)  But Hashemi did not sign the agreement.  Sean Hash signed it as the “Resident’s Authorized
Agent.”
Defendant
contends that Sean Hash “was also noted to be [Hashemi’s] healthcare agent in the
attached Power of Attorney,” and the Arbitration Agreement provided, “By virtue
of the Resident’s consent, instruction, and/or durable power of attorney, I hereby
certify that I am authorized to act as the Resident’s agent in executing and delivering
this Agreement.”  (Motion at pp. 5-6.)
Sean
Hash’s representations are not enough to create an agency relationship here.  “Generally, a person who is not a party to an
arbitration agreement is not bound by it.” (Flores, supra, 148 Cal.App.4th
at p. 587.)  However, a person acting as a
patient’s agent who signs an arbitration agreement with a health care facility can
bind the patient.  (Ibid.; Garrison,
supra, 132 Cal.App.4th at p. 264, citing Madden v. Kaiser Foundation Hospitals
(1976) 17 Cal.3d 699, 709.)  Thus, whether
the patient is bound to an arbitration agreement the patient did not sign depends
on whether the person signing the agreement was acting as the patient’s agent.  “Actual agency typically arises by express agreement.”  (van’t Rood v. County of Santa Clara (2003)
113 Cal.App.4th 549, 571.)  Conduct by the
agent alone is not sufficient to establish agency; “‘[w]ords or conduct by both
principal and agent are necessary to create the relationship . . . .’”  (Ibid.; Flores, supra, 148 Cal.App.4th
at pp. 587-588 [“[A]n agency cannot be created by the conduct of the agent alone;
rather conduct by the principal is essential to create the agency.”].)
The
agency designation signed by Hashemi is not a broad “Healthcare Power of Attorney,”
as characterized by Defendant.  (See Flores
Decl. ¶ 3 & Ex. B.)  Instead, it designates
Sean Hash as Hashemi’s “Healthcare Agent” who may “speak for me if healthcare decisions
need to be made and I am unable to communicate. 
My agent will represent my interests to the best of his/her ability, considering
what he/she knows about my goals and wishes as well as any preferences I have expressed
in this document.”  (Flores Decl., Ex. B at
p. 1.)  It grants Sean Hash authority to “begin
to represent me when my physician says I am unable to make my own healthcare decisions.”  (Id. at p. 2.)  A “healthcare decision” within Sean Hash’s authority
excludes the optional, separate Arbitration Agreement that does not accomplish health
care objectives.  (Harrod v. Country Oaks
Partners, LLC (2024) 15 Cal.5th 939, 964, 966 (Harrod).)
Defendant
further argues that Sean Hash filed the original complaint as Hashemi’s “Attorney-in-Fact,”
and “[a]s decedent’s ‘Attorney in Fact’ Sean Hash had the power to initiate the
instant action on decedent’s behalf, which is exactly what he did.  As such, he also has the power to bind the decedent
to the subject arbitration agreement.”  (Reply
at p. 2.)  According to Defendant, “Had he
not been her agent or ‘Attorney in Fact’ (not just a healthcare agent) the instant
action would have been improperly filed as he would have lacked standing to bring
the original complaint.  Under Harrod
a[n] ‘Attorney in Fact’ has the power to execute arbitration agreements.”  (Ibid.)
The
operative complaint is the FAC, which was filed by Parvin Hashemi (by and through
her Successor-in-Interest, Sean Hash), Sean Hash, and Raymond Hash.  Defendant stipulated to this amendment.  (See July 16, 2024 Joint Stipulation.)  Even when the original complaint was purportedly
brought by Sean Hash as Hashemi’s “Attorney-in-Fact,” it is Defendant’s burden to
show that signing the Arbitration Agreement was within Sean Hash’s authority.  (See, e.g., 3 Witkin, Summary 11th Agency § 143
(2024) [“a third party who deals with an agent and knows of the agency is under
a duty to ascertain its scope”].)  Defendant
has not done so.
Because
there is no binding arbitration agreement with Parvin Hashemi and Raymond Hash,
the motion is denied for those Plaintiffs’ claims.
B.        Sean Hash Must Arbitrate His Individual
Claims.
The
Arbitration Agreement “is binding on all parties,” and “[t]he Resident’s representatives
. . . who execute this agreement below as the ‘Resident's Agent’ are doing so not
only in their representative capacity for the Resident, but also in their individual
capacity.”  (Arbitration Agreement at p. 2,
¶ 7.)  When Sean Hash signed the Arbitration
Agreement, he “also acknowledge[d] that pursuant to the terms of this Agreement,
any claims that [he] may assert in [his] personal capacity that arise out of or
relate to the provision of or failure to provide any services (medical or otherwise)
or goods by the Facility to the Resident or the admission agreement are governed
by this Agreement.”  (Arbitration Agreement
at p. 4.)
Accordingly,
Sean Hash’s claim for wrongful death (brought in his individual capacity) must be
arbitrated.
C.        The Court Will Stay this Action Pending
Arbitration of Sean Hash’s Claims.
A
court must grant a motion to compel arbitration unless a party to the arbitration
agreement is also a party to a pending court action with a third party arising out
of the same transaction and there is a possibility of conflicting rulings on a common
issue of law or fact.  (Code Civ. Proc., §
1281.2, subd. (c).)  If the court does determine
that subdivision (c) applies, the court may order arbitration among the parties
who have agreed to arbitration and stay the pending court action or special proceeding
pending the outcome of the arbitration proceeding, or may stay arbitration pending
the outcome of the court action.  (Code Civ.
Proc., § 1281.2.)
Sean
Hash’s arbitrable claim for wrongful death is allegedly jointly with Raymond Hash
and is based on the same facts as Hashemi’s non-arbitrable claims.  The Court will therefore stay the remainder of
the action while Sean Hash and Defendant arbitrate his individual claim.
CONCLUSION
The
motion to compel arbitration is GRANTED IN PART.  This entire action is STAYED pending the conclusion
of the arbitration of Sean Hash’s individual claim.
A
Status Conference re: Arbitration is scheduled for December 4, 2025 at 8:30 a.m.
in Department 48 at Stanley Mosk Courthouse. 
Five court days before, the parties are to file a joint report stating the
name of their retained arbitrator and the status of arbitration.
Moving
party to give notice.
Parties
who intend to submit on this tentative must send an email to the Court at SMCDEPT48@lacourt.org
indicating intention to submit.  If all parties
in the case submit on the tentative ruling, no appearances before the Court are
required unless a companion hearing (for example, a Case Management Conference)
is also on calendar.
 
        
Dated this 5th day of December 2024
 




 


 




 


Hon. Thomas D. Long
Judge of the Superior
  Court
 




 