 Case Number:  23STCV11687    Hearing Date:   December 5, 2024    Dept:  48  
 
 
SUPERIOR
COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



MAGGIE PARSONS, 
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
 
ROBERT OZERAN, et al.,
 
                        Defendants.


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


     
  CASE NO.: 23STCV11687
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER GRANTING PLAINTIFF’S MOTION
  TO COMPEL DEPOSITION OF DEFENDANT’S EXPERT
 
Dept. 48
8:30 a.m.
December 5, 2024



 
On May 24, 2023, Plaintiff Maggie
Parsons filed this action against Defendants Robert Ozeran and Law Offices of Robert
Ozeran Inc.
Roland
H. Hamilton was designated as a retained expert on a supplemental designation by
Defendants.  (Frank Decl. ¶ 9.)  When Plaintiff’s counsel requested Hamilton’s
available dates, Defendants’ counsel stated that Plaintiff could not take Hamilton’s
deposition and/or take it first because Defendants were entitled to take Plaintiff’s
experts’ depositions first.  (Frank Decl.
¶ 10 & Ex. B.)  Plaintiff’s counsel noticed
Hamilton’s deposition for October 28, 2024. 
(Frank Decl. ¶ 11 & Ex. C.)  Five
days prior to the deposition, Defendants served an objection “on the grounds that
Plaintiff unilaterally selected the date for the deposition without first seeking
input as to mutually convenient dates.”  (Frank
Decl. ¶ 11 & Ex. D.)  Hamilton did not
appear for his deposition, and Plaintiff took a certificate of non-appearance.  (Frank Decl. ¶ 12 & Ex. F.)
On
November 4, 2024, Plaintiff filed a motion to compel Hamilton’s deposition.
If
a party or an officer, director, managing agent, employee of a party, or person
designated as the person most qualified to testify fails to appear for examination
or produce documents without serving a valid objection, the demanding party may
move to compel attendance, testimony, and production.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.450, subd. (a).)
Defendants
contend that “Plaintiff failed to complete, or even attempt to complete, the Court’s
joint discovery dispute statement required for all discovery motions.”  (Opposition at p. 2.)  Exhibit A of this Department’s Courtroom Information
states that a Joint Statement is required for “all motions to compel further responses,
but not motions to compel initial responses.” 
It is not required for a motion to compel attendance at a deposition.
Defendants
acknowledge that “Plaintiff has the right to take Hamilton’s deposition in this
case, and to do so prior to trial.”  (Opposition
at p. 5.)  However, Defendants argue that
they “also have the right to take the deposition of Plaintiff’s designated forensic
accountant expert, Jackie Adams-Ings, prior to the deposition of Hamilton, who is
a rebuttal expert.”  (Ibid.)  Defendants cite no authority for this scheduling.  Moreover, Defendants have not moved to compel
the deposition of Plaintiff’s expert, despite the forthcoming December 16, 2024
trial date.
Defendants
argue that their objections are valid because “Plaintiff unilaterally selected the
date for the deposition without first seeking input as to mutually convenient dates,
and because Hamilton and counsel for Defendants were not available on the date noticed.”  (Opposition at p. 6.)  A party may serve written objections to a deposition
notice “that does not comply with Article 2 (commencing with Section 2025.210).”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.410., subd. (a); see
also Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.450, subd. (a).) 
Plaintiff unilaterally noticing a deposition is not a valid objection under
Section 2025.410.  The Court is guessing that
Defendants subscribe to the common belief that depositions cannot be noticed until
after a date is agreed on by the parties and that to do otherwise is to improperly
“unilaterally” set the deposition.  It is
not improper to unilaterally pick a date.
The
motion is GRANTED.  Roland H. Hamilton is
ordered to appear for deposition within 7 days.
Defendants’
counsel is ordered to pay sanctions of $2,260.00 to Plaintiff within 14 days.
Moving
party to give notice.
Parties
who intend to submit on this tentative must send an email to the Court at SMCDEPT48@lacourt.org
indicating intention to submit.  If all parties
in the case submit on the tentative ruling, no appearances before the Court are
required unless a companion hearing (for example, a Case Management Conference)
is also on calendar.
 
        
Dated this 5th day of December 2024
 




 


 




 


Hon. Thomas D. Long
Judge of the Superior
  Court
 




 