 Case Number:  23STCV06987    Hearing Date:   March 26, 2024    Dept:  39 Cynthia Batac v.
Windsor Healthcare Management, Inc.
Case No.
23STCV06987
Motion to Enforce
Stay or to Compel Arbitration 
Motion to Strike
 
INTRODUCTION 
 
            Plaintiff
Cynthia Batac (“Plaintiff”) filed this employment case against Defendants
Windsor Healthcare Management, Inc. (“Windsor Healthcare”); Windsor Terrace
Healthcare; LLC (“Windsor Terrace”); SNF Management Company LLC (“SNF”); CPE HR
Inc. (“CPE”); Modern HR, Inc. (“Modern HR”); and Amanda Moore (“Moore”).  All of the defendants except CPE and Modern
HR filed a motion to compel arbitration on May 31, 2023, and CPE and Modern HR
filed a notice of joinder on June 1, 2023. 
Plaintiff opposed the motion, which the Court granted on August 17, 2023,
and the Court stayed the case. 
Notwithstanding the stay, Plaintiff’s counsel named six more defendants to
this case on September 18, 2023.  Then,
Plaintiff’s counsel filed an ex parte application to return the case to the
active docket, which the Court denied on October 9, 2023.  Afterwards, Plaintiff’s counsel added a
seventh new defendant.  Then, Plaintiff’s
counsel issued deposition notices (even though the case was stayed).  Now, Defendant files a motion to enforce the
stay or, in the alternative, to compel arbitration of the new defendants.  Defendant also moves to strike the new
defendants.  
 
PROCEDURAL HISTORY 
 
            Plaintiff
filed this employment case on March 30, 2023. 
Defendants filed a motion to compel arbitration, which the Court granted
on August 17, 2023.  The Court’s order
stated as follows: “The case is ordered stayed pending binding arbitration as
to the entire matter.”  (See Court’s
Minute Order, dated August 17, 2023.)  Notwithstanding
the stay, on September 18, 2023, Plaintiff’s counsel filed six Doe amendments
naming defendants in place of Doe 1 through Doe 6.  (See Amendments to Complaint
(Fictitious/Incorrect Name), dated September 18, 2023.)  
 
            On October
6, 2023, Plaintiff’s counsel filed an ex parte application to withdraw this
case from arbitration and restore the case to the active docket under Code of
Civil Procedure section 1281.97, arguing that the arbitration fees were not
paid in a timely manner.  The Court
denied the ex parte application for two reasons.  First, the Court found that an ex parte
application was improper because there was no irreparable harm, immediate
danger, or any other statutory basis for granting relief ex parte, as required
by California Rules of Court, rule 3.1202. 
(See Court’s Minute Order, dated October 9, 2023.)  Second, and more important, the Court found
that the arbitration fees had, in fact, been paid:
 
“Second, in fact, the required fees
were paid in a timely manner. Plaintiff’s counsel represents that the fees were
due on or before September 30, 2023. (See Plaintiff’s Ex Parte Application, pp.
3:10, 4:3.) Defendants’ counsel provides an email from the arbitration service
stating “This will confirm that the filing fee was paid/received on September
15, 2023, by the Castro Law Group on behalf of all Respondents. The filing fees
are not based on the number of Respondents; therefore, the filing requirements have
been met and the AAA are proceeding forward with this matter.” (Declaration of
Kerri Lutfey, Exh. #6.) There is no basis to find that this email is false.”
 
(See id., pp. 1-2.)  
 
            Notwithstanding
the Court’s order staying this case and the Court’s order finding that the case
properly belonged in arbitration, Plaintiff’s counsel named a seventh defendant
in place of Doe 7 on October 9, 2023.  (See
Notice of Amendment to Complaint, filed on October 9, 2023.)  Then, on October 24, 2023, Plaintiff’s
counsel sought to take depositions of six of the new defendants and two other
individuals in the instant case.  (See
Declaration of Kerri R. Lutfey, ¶ 6.)  
 
            On October
20, 2023, Defendants’ counsel filed a motion to enforce the stay or, in the
alternative, to compel arbitration of the new defendants.  Defendants also seek monetary sanctions in
the about of $6,810 against Plaintiff Cynthia Batac and her counsel, Suzanne E.
Rand-Lewis, for discovery abuses under Code of Civil Procedure section
2023.030.  Then, on October 24, 2023,
Plaintiff filed a motion to withdraw the case from arbitration and to return
the case to the active docket under Code of Civil Procedure section 1281.97,
arguing that the arbitration fees were not paid in a timely manner.  The Court denied that motion.  (See Court’s Minute Order, dated February 21,
2024.)     
 
DISCUSSION 
 
            The Court
is concerned that Plaintiff’s counsel disobeyed a court order staying this case
by naming additional defendants and, more troubling, propounding discovery.  The Court’s order was clear on its face: “The
case is ordered stayed pending binding arbitration as to the entire
matter.”  (See Court’s Minute Order,
dated August 17, 2023.)  There is no
justification for Plaintiff’s counsel’s conduct.  If Plaintiff’s counsel believed that the
order should no longer apply (e.g., based upon the arguments raised in her
motion or opposition to Defendants’ motion), she should have raised those
issues first with the Court.  By
propounding discovery in a case that has been stayed, Plaintiff’s counsel has
violated a court order.
 
            The Court
grants Defendants’ motion and orders the following new defendants to proceed by
way of arbitration: (1) Antelope Holdings I LLC, (2) Newgen Administrative
Services LLC, (3) 9560 Pico LLC, (4) Pico AR LLC, and (5) Windsor Terrace
Holding Company LLC.  The Court
incorporates by reference its order of August 17, 2023.  Specifically:
 
“In her complaint, Plaintiff
alleges that Defendants are co-employers and agents of each other concerning
employment matters, like those raised in this action.  (Complaint, ¶¶ 1, 17, 19.)  This is sufficient to invoke the arbitration
agreement in this case.  (See, e.g.,
Dryer v. Los Angeles Rams (1985) 40 Cal.3d 406, 418.)”
 
(See Court’s Minute Order, dated August 17, 2023.)  The Court grants Defendants’ motion to strike
and dismisses the following defendants: (1) Abrohom (“Abe”) Tress, and (2) Aaron
Rubin.  The dismissals are without
prejudice but the Court orders that Plaintiff may not name any new defendants
or propound any discovery in this case without an order of the Court because
this case is stayed pending arbitration. 

 
            Defendants
request monetary sanctions in the amount of $6,810 under Code of Civil
Procedure section 2023.030.  The Court
finds that Plaintiff’s counsel violated this Court’s order by propounding
discovery, which constitutes an abuse of the discovery process.  The Court finds that there is no good cause
for Plaintiff’s conduct in this case. 
The Court finds that the amount of the requested sanctions is fair and
reasonable under the circumstances to compensate Defendants from having to
litigate this issue.  The Court finds that
equitable considerations favor Defendants in this issue.  Nevertheless, the Court must deny the request
for sanctions because the Civil Discovery Act’s sections defining conduct
subject to discovery sanctions do not independently authorize trial courts to
impose monetary sanctions for misuse of discovery; they authorize sanctions
only to the extent authorized by another provision of the act.  (See City of Los Angeles v. PricewaterhouseCoopers,
LLC (2022) 84 Cal.App.5th 466, 504.)  The
Court will reconsider this order if Defendants’ counsel files a motion for
reconsideration within ten (10) days of any contrary opinion by the California
Supreme Court.  (See City of Los Angeles
v. PricewaterhouseCoopers (2023) 522 P.3d 1073.)  
 
CONCLUSION AND ORDER
 
            Based upon
the foregoing, the Court orders as follows:
 
            1.         The Court grants Defendants’ motion to
enforce the stay.  This case shall remain
stayed for all purposes absent an order from the Court.  Plaintiff’s counsel may not add any
defendants or propound any discovery without an express order of the Court.
 
            2.         The Court grants Defendants’ motion to
compel arbitration of the new entity defendants: (1) Antelope Holdings I LLC,
(2) Newgen Administrative Services LLC, (3) 9560 Pico LLC, (4) Pico AR LLC, and
(5) Windsor Terrace Holding Company LLC.
 
            3.         The Court grants Defendants’ motion to
strike and dismisses Abrohom (“Abe”) Tress and Aaron Rubin.  The dismissals are without prejudice but the
Court orders that Plaintiff may not name any new defendants or propound any
discovery in this case without an order of the Court because this case is
stayed pending arbitration.  
 
            4.         The Court denies Defendants’ request
for monetary sanctions.  The Court will
reconsider this order if Defendants’ counsel files a motion for reconsideration
within ten (10) days of any contrary opinion by the California Supreme
Court.  (See City of Los Angeles v.
PricewaterhouseCoopers (2023) 522 P.3d 1073.)
 
            5.         Defendants’ counsel shall provide
notice and file proof of such with the Court.   

 