 Case Number:  21STCV28966    Hearing Date:   March 26, 2024    Dept:  39 Scott Erickson, et
al. v. Bartlett Loft
Case No.
21STCV28966
Motion to Compel
Further Responses to Form Interrogatories
 
            Defendant
Bartlett Loft (“Defendant”) filed this motion to compel Plaintiffs Scott
Erickson and Ryan Erickson (collectively, “Plaintiffs”) to provide further
responses to the Form Interrogatories, Set One (“FROGs”).  Defendant also requests sanctions in the
amount of $5,156.15.  Plaintiffs’ counsel
states that he served sufficient responses and that all outstanding issues have
been resolved.  (Declaration of Blake S.
Slater, ¶¶ 8-10.)  However, Plaintiffs’
counsel did not provide copies of the supplemental responses, so the Court
cannot verify this representation. 
Accordingly, the motion is granted to the extent Plaintiffs’ counsel
have not already provided verified, code-compliant supplemental responses
without objections.  
 
            The Court grants
Defendant’s request for discovery sanctions based upon Plaintiffs’ conduct in
this case.  The FROGs (and other
discovery requests) were served on October 7, 2022.  Plaintiffs did not respond, and the Court
granted motions to compel on June 5, 2023. 
(See Court’s Minute Order, dated June 5, 2023.)  Plaintiffs provided deficient responses on
July 7, 2023, which necessitated a long process of meeting-and-conferring on
straightforward “form” interrogatories.  Defendant
filed this motion on November 16, 2023, and according to Plaintiffs’ counsel,
he finally addressed all of the issues by December 27, 2023.  (See Declaration of Blake S. Slater, ¶
8.)  It should not take almost 18 months
to provide responses to “form” interrogatories, which are used in every case.  Moreover, Plaintiffs’ prior responses were
frivolous.  The objections were
boilerplate and wholly without merit.  Even
after Plaintiffs provided substantive responses, they provided lacking
responses in violation of Code of Civil Procedure section 2030.220.  Some responses (e.g., “Unknown”) were not
credible because the form interrogatory requested information Plaintiffs should
have known, e.g., whether they have any pre-existing conditions related to
those for which they are seeking damages, etc. 

 
            Based upon
the foregoing, the Court finds that this motion was necessary to facilitate
Plaintiffs’ compliance with their discovery obligations, and that Plaintiffs’
conduct was an abuse of the discovery process, which entitles Defendant to
discovery sanctions under Code of Civil Procedure section 2030.300(d).  The Court also notes that Plaintiffs have
previously failed to cooperate with their discovery obligations.  The Court previously found as follows:
 
“The Court finds that Defendant’s
counsel has acted with the utmost professionalism and courtesy in attempting to
resolve this dispute without the need for motions. By contrast, the Court finds
that Plaintiffs and their counsel have taken advantage of this courtesy and
engaged in gamesmanship and abuse of the discovery process. There is no valid
reason Plaintiffs still have not provided verified discovery responses without
objections seven months after the deadline. Nor is there any valid reason for
Plaintiffs’ counsel to have repeatedly promised substantive discovery responses
and then raised objections (after they had been waived), not served discovery
responses, and then opposed this motion on procedural issues.”
 
(See Court’s Minute Order, dated June 5, 2023.)  Simply, Plaintiffs are required to comply
with their discovery obligations without a court order, and Defendant should
not have to file a motion such as this one. 

 
            Based upon
the foregoing, the Court orders as follows:
 
            1.         Defendant’s motion to compel further
responses to the Form Interrogatories, Set One, is granted.  To the extent Plaintiffs have not done so
already, they shall provide verified, code-compliant responses, without objections,
within thirty (30) days.    
 
            2.         The Court grants Defendant’s request
for sanctions.  The Court finds that the
requested amount is fair and reasonable to compensate Defendant for the cost of
having to litigate this issue.  The Court
orders Plaintiffs and/or their counsel-of-record, Stone & Sallus LLP,
jointly and severally, to pay Defendant discovery sanctions in the amount of
$5,156.15 within thirty (30) days.
 
            3.         Defendant’s counsel shall provide
notice and file proof of such with the Court. 
 