 Case Number:  23STCV05192    Hearing Date:   March 26, 2024    Dept:  39 Full
Count, Inc., et al. v. LucasFilm Entertainment Company, Ltd., et al.
Case
No. 23STCV05192
Motion
for Protective Order
 
            Defendant
Blue Stockings, Inc. (“Defendant”) filed a motion for a protective order to
exclude Leslie Lindeman from Plaintiff Karyn McCarthy’s deposition.  Plaintiff opposes the motion, arguing that
Leslie Lindeman is an officer of Plaintiff Full Count, Inc. (“Full
Count”).   Defendant argues that this is not true, and
that Leslie Lindeman—who is Karyn McCarthy’s husband—should be excluded because
he is a percipient witness in this case. 
            
            On
August 10, 2023, the parties agreed to schedule Plaintiff’s deposition for
September 29, 2023.  (Declaration of
Corey G. Singer, ¶ 6.)  The night before
the deposition—September 28, 2023, at 5:00 p.m.—Plaintiff’s counsel asked that
Lindeman should be added to the list for building security.  (Id., ¶ 8.) 
Defendants’ counsel stated that Lindeman would not be permitted to
attend the deposition.  (Ibid.)  In response, Plaintiff’s counsel stated that
Lindeman is an officer of Full Count and would attend in that capacity.
 
            The
Court agrees with Plaintiffs’ counsel that the “Statement of Information” filed
with the State of California, Secretary of State did not require Full Count to
list Lindeman as an officer.  It required
Full Count to identify the Chief Executive Officer, Secretary, Chief Financial
Officer and all directors.  However, the only
evidence of Lindeman’s status was a “Written Consent of the Sole Director of
Full Count, Inc.,” dated September 29, 2023—the same date as the
deposition—purportedly “confirm[ing] Leslie Lindeman’s appointment as the
Company’s Vice President since June 29, 2009.” 
(Id., Exh. #1, p. 47.)  At the
original hearing on this motion, the Court expressed skepticism whether
Lindeman had a genuine role at Full Count. 
Plaintiffs’ counsel indicated that he could address the Court’s
concerns, so the Court continued the hearing on the motion.
 
Code of Civil
Procedure section 2025.420(b)(12) permits an officer of Full Count to attend
the deposition of Karyn McCarthy.  Plaintiffs’
counsel has filed copies of documents suggesting that Lindeman had a genuine
role at Full Count long before this litigation was initiated.  (See Declaration of Karyn McCarthy, Exh. A-R.)  Defendants’ counsel argues in his
supplemental brief that none of this documentation establishes that Lindeman
was an officer, as opposed to an employee. 
This matters not.  The Court is
persuaded that Lindeman had a genuine role at Full Count and that his designation
of September 29, 2023, is not a “sham.” 
The mere fact that his role was not formalized prior to this date is not
dispositive, as closely-held corporations, especially family businesses, are
not subject to the same corporate formalities as other corporations.  (See, e.g., Nelson v. Anderson (1999) 72
Cal.App.4th 111, 125 fn. 7.)  Defendants’
counsel cites no authority permitting the Court to exclude Leslie Lindeman
under these circumstances.  Nor did
Defendants’ counsel request any remedy other than an order excluding Lindeman
from the deposition.  
 
Plaintiffs’
counsel requests sanctions in connection with this motion.  There are several problems with this
request.  First, Plaintiffs’ counsel does
not specify any amount of sanctions or provide any information concerning how
the Court should determine potential sanctions. 
Second, Plaintiffs’ counsel does not identify against whom he is seeking
sanctions.  Third, and perhaps most
important, the Court agrees with Defendants’ counsel that Plaintiff’s counsel handled
this matter inefficiently.  Plaintiffs’
counsel should have provided verification of Leslie Lindeman’s status to
Plaintiff’s counsel during the meet-and-confer process or provided the relevant
documents with his opposition to the motion. 
Therefore, Plaintiff’s counsel is not entitled to sanctions.  
 
Based upon the
foregoing, the Court orders as follows:
 
1.         Defendants’ motion for a protective
order is denied.
 
2.         All requests for sanctions are denied.
 
3.         The parties shall meet-and-confer and
re-schedule the deposition of Karyn McCarthy forthwith.
 
4.         Plaintiff’s counsel shall provide
notice and file proof of such with the Court. 

 