 Case Number:  22SMCV00209    Hearing Date:   January 31, 2024    Dept:  N TENTATIVE RULINGPlaintiff David Carter’s Motion to Compel Defendants [sic] Shi’s Further Responses to Special Interrogatories (Set 2) is GRANTED. Defendant Yuan Shi shall provide supplemental responses to the identified interrogatories within twenty (20) days of entry of this order. Plaintiff David Carter’s Motion to Compel Defendants [sic] Shi’s Further Responses to Requests for Production (Set 2) is GRANTED. Defendant Yuan Shi shall provide supplemental responses to the identified requests for production within twenty (20) days of entry of this order.Plaintiff David Carter’s Motion to Compel Defendants [sic] AI List Capital 1, LP’s Further Responses to Requests for Production (Set 1) is GRANTED. Defendant AI List Capital 1, LP shall provide supplemental responses to the identified requests for production within twenty (20) days of entry of this order.Plaintiff David Carter’s Requests for Monetary Sanctions are DENIED.Plaintiff David Carter to give notice. REASONINGIf a party that has propounded interrogatories or requests for production of documents believes that the responses received are evasive or incomplete, or that an objection to the interrogatories or requests for production of documents is without merit or too general, the propounding party may bring a motion to compel further responses to the interrogatories. (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 2030.300, subd. (a), 2031.310, subd. (a); see also Best Products, Inc. v. Superior Court (2004) 119 Cal.App.4th 1181, 1189-1190 [motion to compel proper to challenge “boilerplate” responses].)“Unless notice of this motion is given within 45 days of the service of the verified response, or any supplemental verified response, or on or before any specific later date to which the propounding party and the responding party have agreed in writing, the propounding party waives any right to compel a further response” to the interrogatories or requests for production of documents. (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 2030.300, subd. (c), 2031.310, subd. (c).) This timeliness requirement is mandatory, and in some sense may even be considered a matter of jurisdiction, and the Court therefore “[has] no power to make an order compelling further answers where the propounding party failed to serve this motion within the statutory time.” (Prof’l Career Colls., Magna Inst., Inc. v. Superior Court (1989) 207 Cal.App.3d 490, 493; see also Vidal Sassoon, Inc. v. Superior Court (1983) 147 Cal.App.3d 681 [same].)   A motion to compel further responses must be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration under Code of Civil Procedure section 2016.040. (See Code Civ. Proc., §§ 2030.300, subd. (b)(1), 2031.310, subd. (b)(2).) A meet and confer declaration must “state facts showing a reasonable and good faith attempt at an informal resolution of each issue presented by the motion.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2016.040.) California Rules of Court, rule 3.1345(a) requires that any motion to compel further responses to discovery contain a separate statement with the text of each request, the response, and a statement of factual and legal reasons for compelling further.Plaintiff David Carter (“Plaintiff”) moves for further responses to his Special Interrogatories (Set 2) and Requests for Production (Set 2) propounded upon Defendant Yuan Shi (“Shi”). The Court has reviewed the interrogatories at issue, as well as Shi’s responses to the same, and hereby rules as follows: Shi shall provide further responses to Interrogatory Nos. 1, 2, and 3, insofar as such information has not been provided to date, as those interrogatories merely seek identification of corporate bank accounts by name and address and does not seek confidential information therein. Shi shall also provide further responses to Requests for Production Nos. 1, 2, and 3, insofar as such information has not been provided to date, as those requests seek information relevant to Plaintiff’s ability to prove his claims, i.e., to show how much money Shi obtained, when the money was obtained, how much profit was generated, and the amount of expenses, which is all relevant to Plaintiff’s damages, if any. The requests are limited as to time and scope in such a manner that balances Shi’s privacy interests with Plaintiff’s ability to obtain relevant information. Further, it is insufficient to do a document dump, i.e., produce documents and not identify which documents correspond to which request, and Shi shall amend his responses to identify the responsive documents for each request. Defendant Yuan Shi shall provide supplemental responses to the identified interrogatories within twenty (20) days of entry of this order. Plaintiff also moves for further responses to his Requests for Production (Set 1) propounded upon Defendant AI List Capital 1, LP (“AI List”). The Court has reviewed the requests for production at issue, as well as AI List’s responses to the same, and hereby rules as follows: AI List shall provide further responses to Requests for Production Nos. 3, 5, 6, 7, 8, and 9, insofar as such information has not been provided to date, as those requests seek information relevant to Plaintiff’s ability to prove his claims. As to bank statements, such documents are relevant to show how much money Shi obtained, when the money was obtained, how much profit was generated, and the amount of expenses, which is all relevant to Plaintiff’s damages, if any. As to the limited partnership agreement, this information is relevant to show the percentage of profits to which the parties may be entitled. As to contracts, investor reports, and communications with the invested companies, such documents are relevant to show the entities in which AI List was invested so profits, benefits, and gains on investments can be determined. The requests are limited as to time and scope in such a manner that balances AI List’s privacy interests with Plaintiff’s ability to obtain relevant information. Again, it is insufficient to do a document dump, i.e., produce documents and not identify which documents correspond to which request, and Shi shall amend his responses to identify the responsive documents for each request. Defendant AI List Capital 1, LP shall provide supplemental responses to the identified requests for production within twenty (20) days of entry of this order.Plaintiff also requests sanctions for the fees he incurred in bringing the three motions. (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 2030.300, subd. (d), 2031.310, subd. (h).) Plaintiff’s request is DENIED, as Plaintiff’s motions were not correctly filed, such that the Court would have been within its discretion to deny the motions outright, and many of the fees were incurred as a result of counsel’s error in preparing the motions.