  Case Number:  21TRCV00843    Hearing Date:   April 10, 2024    Dept:  8 Tentative Ruling¿ 
¿¿ 
HEARING DATE:                 April 10, 2024¿¿ 
¿¿ 
CASE NUMBER:                   21TRCV00843
¿¿ 
CASE NAME:                        Falguni Adams; Richard Adams v. Danli Lai,
et al. 
¿¿ 
MOVING PARTY:                 Defendant,
Daniel Lai
¿¿ 
RESPONDING PARTY:        Plaintiffs,
Falguni Adams and Richard Adams
¿¿ 
MOTION:¿                              (1) Motion for Attorneys’ Fees 
¿ 
Tentative Rulings:                  (1)  ARGUE  
¿¿ 
 
I. BACKGROUND¿¿ 
¿¿ 
A. Factual¿¿ 
¿ 
On
November 12, 2021, Plaintiffs Falguni Adams and Richard Adams (“Plaintiffs”)
filed this action against Defendant, Danli Lai, The Elite Group property
Inspection Services, Inc., Carl Weustehube dba Tri-Star Realty, and DOES 1
through 20 alleging causes of action for: (1) Breach of Contract; (2)
Negligence Per Se; (3) Negligence; (4) Construction Defect; (5) Breach of
Implied and Express Warranties; (6) Fraudulent Misrepresentation and Fraudulent
Concealment; and (7) Negligent Misrepresentation.
 
Defendant
Lai filed a Motion for Summary Judgment on June 6, 2023, which was heard on
August 22, 2023. After taking this matter under submission, this Court issued a
ruling on December 20, 2023, in which this Court granted Defendant Lai’s Motion
for Summary Judgment. Defendant Lai filed the Notice of Entry of Judgment on
January 2, 2024. Since Defendant Lai prevailed on this action, he now moves for
attorney’s fees under Civil Code § 1717, and pursuant to the agreement at issue
in this case. 
 
B. Procedural¿¿ 
¿ 
On February 22, 2024,
Defendant Lai filed a Motion for Attorney Fees. On March 28, 2024, Plaintiffs
filed an opposition. On April 3, 2024, Defendant Lai filed a reply brief. 
 
II. ANALYSIS¿ 
 
A.   
Legal Standard 
 
Attorney’s fees are recoverable when
authorized by contract, statute, or law. (Code Civ. Proc., § 1033.5, subd.
(a)(10).)  
 
Pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure
section 1033.5, subdivision (a)(10), attorney fees when authorized by contract,
statute or law are allowable as costs and may be awarded upon a noticed motion
pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 1033.5, subdivision (c)(5).  
 
Where a contract specifically provides
for attorney’s fees and costs incurred to enforce the contract, attorney’s fees
and costs must be awarded to the party who is determined to be the prevailing
party on the contract. (Civ. Code., § 1717, subd. (a).) “Reasonable attorney’s
fees shall be fixed by the court and shall be an element of the costs of suit.”
(Ibid.) 
 
A prevailing party is defined as follows: 
 
(4) “Prevailing
party” includes the party with a net monetary recovery, a defendant in whose
favor a dismissal is entered, a defendant where neither plaintiff nor defendant
obtains any relief, and a defendant as against those plaintiffs who do not
recover any relief against that defendant. If any party recovers other than
monetary relief and in situations other than as specified, the “prevailing
party” shall be as determined by the court, and under those circumstances, the
court, in its discretion, may allow costs or not and, if allowed, may apportion
costs between the parties on the same or adverse sides pursuant to rules
adopted under Section 1034. 
 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 1032, subd. (a)(4).) 
 
In determining what fees are reasonable,
California courts apply the “lodestar” approach. (See, e.g., Holguin v. DISH
Network LLC (2014) 229 Cal.App.4th 1310, 1332.) This inquiry “begins with
the ‘lodestar,’ i.e., the number of hours reasonably expended multiplied by the
reasonable hourly rate.” (See PLCM Group v. Drexler (2000) 22 Cal.4th
1084, 1095.) From there, the “[t]he lodestar figure may then be adjusted, based
on consideration of factors specific to the case, in order to fix the fee at
the fair market value for the legal services provided.” (Ibid.) Relevant
factors include: “(1) the novelty and difficulty of the questions involved, (2)
the skill displayed in presenting them, (3) the extent to which the nature of
the litigation precluded other employment by the attorneys, [and] (4) the
contingent nature of the fee award.” (Ketchum v. Moses (2001) 24 Cal.4th
1122, 1132.) 
 
The party seeking fees has the burden of
documenting the appropriate hours expended and hourly rates. (City of Colton
v. Singletary (2012) 206 Cal.App.4th 751, 784.) This burden requires
competent evidence as to the nature and value of the services rendered. (Martino
v. Denevi (1986) 182 Cal.App.3d 553, 559.) A plaintiff’s verified
billing invoices are prima facie evidence that the costs, expenses, and
services listed were necessarily incurred. (Hadley v. Krepel (1985) 167
Cal.App.3d 677, 682.)
 
 
 
 
B.   
Discussion
 
Here,
Defendant Lai’s moving papers indicate that he is seeking attorneys’ fees for
prevailing on his Motion for Summary Judgment in the total amount of $36,084. In
Plaintiffs’ opposition, they argue that (1) Defendant Lai refused to
participate in mediation, which should bar his motion for attorneys’ fees , and
(2) a number of items requested in this motion are unreasonable, or at minimum,
not sufficiently explained. 
 
Mediation 
 
            Plaintiffs note that the Residential Purchase Agreement
(“RPA”) at issue between the parties to this motion, contained an attorney fee
provision.  Pursuant to the terms of the
RPA’s mediation clause, a party who refuses to participate in mediation, when
requested, shall not be entitled to recover attorneys’ fees. (Declaration of
Defendant Lai (“Lai Decl.”), Exhibit 1, RPA ¶ 22A.) Specifically, the RPA,
paragraph 22A states: 
 
The Parties agree to mediate
any dispute or claim arising between them out of this Agreement or any
resulting transaction, before resorting to arbitration or court action through
the C.A.R. Real Estate Mediation Center for Consumers (www.consumermediation.org)
or through any other mediation provider or service mutually agreed to by the
Parties. The Parties also agree to mediate any disputes or claims with
Broker(s), who, in writing, agree to such mediation prior to, or within a
reasonable time after, the dispute or claim is presented to the Broker.
Mediation fees, if any, shall be divided equally among the Parties involved.
If, for any dispute or claim to which this paragraph applies, any party (i)
commences an action without first attempting to resolve the matter through
mediation, or (ii) before commencement of an action, refuses to mediate after a
request has been made, then that Party shall not be entitled to recover
attorney fees, even if they would otherwise be available to the Party in any
such action…
 
 
(Lai Decl., Exhibit 1, RPA ¶
22A.)
 
In
Defendant Lai’s moving papers, he asserts in his original declaration that on
February 5, 2021, he received a letter from RELAW, APC demanding $80,000 for
Plaintiffs’ allegations against him and also demanding mediation pursuant to
the RPA. (Lai Decl., ¶ 3.) Lai contends that he responded that he would be
willing to engage in mediation and would like to employ Mimi Zemmelman, Phd as
the mediator, as she was recommended by an acquaintance, as well as paid Dr.
Zemmelman for an initial review of the matter and provided her with some
documents related to the sale. (Lai Decl., ¶ 4.) Lai further asserts that he
received an email from Plaintiffs’ attorney that he did not want to use Dr.
Zemmelman as the mediator, and suggested a few mediators the next day, but Lai
notes he did not agree to Plaintiffs’ counsel’s suggestions, as he was not
familiar with the proposed mediators. (Lai Decl., ¶ 5.) Lai contends that he
does not recall any further communication with Plaintiffs or their counsel
regarding mediation before Plaintiffs filed their Complaint. (Lai Decl., ¶ 5.) 
Counsel for
Plaintiffs, John Tullis, also filed a declaration explaining the sequence of
events (“Tullis Decl.”). In his declaration, Tullis notes that his March 17,
2024 email provided a list of recommended mediators in the Southern California
area, and that although Defendant Lai acknowledges receipt of these emails in
his declaration in support of the motion, he failed to communicate any
disagreement with the proposed to Plaintiffs’ counsel (Tullis Decl., ¶¶ 4-5.)
Further, Tullis asserts that on April 12, 2021, he sent another letter to
Defendant Lai requesting he participate in mediation, or that the Plaintiffs
would file a Complaint against him. (Tullis Decl., ¶ 6, Exhibit A.) Plaintiffs
confirm that this letter was sent to the same email to which Defendant Lai
conceded he had received the March 16th and 17th emails. However, Plaintiffs
note that Defendant Lai never responded to any of these communications and
thus, Plaintiffs claim, the defendant “refused” to engage in mediation. 
 
In
Defendant Lai’s supplemental declaration, he noted that he reviewed the April
12, 2021 letter attached by Tullis, and states he had never previously seen
that letter, and after a search of his emails for it he has no record of
receiving this letter. (Lai Supp. Decl., ¶ 2.) 
 
For oral argument
on this matter, the Court would like each side to address the following:
 
1.    
Is it a refusal to mediate if a party such as Defendant Lai here
expresses a willingness to mediate but the opposing party does not accept the defendant’s
proposed mediator?
2.    
Does the mediation pre-condition in the attorney fee clause
require that a party affirmatively reject mediation or is the failure to
respond to an offered group of proposed mediators sufficient to establish an
implied refusal to mediate?
3.    
Does the “mail box rule” raising a presumption that a properly
addressed letter transmitted with proper postage apply in the modern day when
emails are used instead of “snail mail”?
4.    
Prior to the filing of this motion, had either party raised the issue
of Lai’s alleged refusal to mediate or the lack of receipt of the April 12,
2021 letter?
 
When the Court resolves the
threshold issue of the mediation precondition, if the Court finds the precondition
is not a bar then the Court will set a further hearing on the computation and reasonableness
issues.
 
 
 