  Case Number:  23TRCV03275    Hearing Date:   June 5, 2024    Dept:  8 Tentative Ruling 
¿ 
HEARING DATE:                 June 5, 2024¿ 
¿ 
CASE NUMBER:                   23TRCV03275
¿ 
CASE NAME:                        Charisse Evans v.
Shawn Tabetha Swanier, et al. 
¿ 
MOVING PARTY:                 Defendant/Cross-Defendant, Shawn Tabetha
Swanier
 
RESPONDING PARTY:        Charisse
Evans; Cross-Complainant Michael Alan Levitt (No Opposition from either) 
¿ 
TRIAL DATE:                        Not Set.  
¿ 
MOTION:¿                              (1) Motion for Determination of Good Faith
Settlement
 
Tentative Rulings:                  (1) GRANT
 
                                                
 
 
 
I. BACKGROUND¿ 
¿ 
A. Factual¿ 
 
On October 4, 2023,
Plaintiff, Charisse Evans (“Plaintiff”) filed a Complaint against Defendants,
Shawn Tabetha Swanier, Michael Alan Levitt, and DOES 1 through 30. The
Complaint alleged one cause of action for Negligence. 
 
Further, on November 27,
2023, Defendant, Michael Alan Levitt filed a Cross-Complaint against
Cross-Defendants Shawn Tabetha Swanier 
 
February 21, 2020, Plaintiff,
Ralph Mendoza and Sonia Mendoza (“Plaintiffs”) filed a Complaint against
Defendants, Safety-Kleen Systems, Inc., Kern Oil & Refining Co., JRI
Holdings, Inc., and DOES 1 through 100. 
 
Now, Defendant and
Cross-Defendant, Shawn Tabetha Swanier has filed a Motion for Determination of
Good Faith Settlement. 
 
B. Procedural  
 
            On
May 1, 2024, Defendant, Shawn Tabetha Swanier, filed
this Motion for Determination of Good Faith Settlement. To date, no opposition
brief has been filed.  
 
 
 
¿II.
ANALYSIS 
 
A. Legal Standard 
 
California Code of Civil Procedure
section 877.6(a)(1), provides, in relevant part, that, on noticed motion, “[a]ny party to an action wherein it is alleged
that two or more parties are joint tortfeasors or co-obligors on a contract
debt shall be entitled to a hearing on the issue of the good faith of a
settlement entered into by the plaintiff . . . and one or more alleged
tortfeasors or co-obligors . . . .”  “A determination by the court that
the settlement was made in good faith shall bar any other joint tortfeasor or
co-obligor from any further claims against the settling tortfeasor or
co-obligor for equitable comparative contribution, or partial or comparative
indemnity, based on comparative negligence or comparative fault.”  (Code
Civ. Proc. § 877.6(c).)  Although a determination that a settlement was in
good faith does not discharge any other party from liability, “it shall reduce
the claims against the others in the amount stipulated” by the
settlement.  (Code Civ. Proc. § 877(a).) 
 
“The
party asserting the lack of good faith shall have the burden of proof on that
issue.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 877.6(d).) On Westwood’s application, that places
the burden on HH Drywall to show a lack of good faith.
 
In Tech-Bilt, Inc. v. Woodward-Clyde
& Associates (1985) 38 Cal.3d 488, 499, the California Supreme Court
identified the following nonexclusive factors courts are to consider in
determining if a settlement is in good faith under section 877.6: “a rough
approximation of plaintiffs' total recovery and the settlor's proportionate
liability, the amount paid in settlement, the allocation of settlement proceeds
among plaintiffs, and a recognition that a settlor should pay less in
settlement than he would if he were found liable after a trial.  Other
relevant considerations include the financial conditions and insurance policy
limits of settling defendants, as well as the existence of collusion, fraud, or
tortious conduct aimed to injure the interests of nonsettling defendants.” 
 
In City of Grand View Terrace v.
Superior Court (1987) 192 Cal.App.3d 1251, 1261, the court provided the
following guidance regarding a motion for a good faith settlement
determination: 
 
This
court notes that of the hundreds of motions for good faith determination
presented for trial court approval each year, the overwhelming majority are
unopposed and granted summarily by the trial court.  At the time of filing
in many cases, the moving party does not know if a contest will develop. 
If each motion required a full recital by declaration or affidavit setting
forth a complete factual response to all of the Tech-Bilt factors,
literally thousands of attorney hours would be consumed, and inch-thick motions
would have to be read and considered by trial courts in an exercise which would
waste valuable judicial and legal time and clients’ resources. . . . That is to
say, when no one objects, the barebones motion which sets forth the ground of
good faith, accompanied by a declaration which sets forth a brief background of
the case is sufficient. 
 
If
the good faith settlement is contested, section 877.6, subdivision (d), sets
forth a workable ground rule for the hearing by placing the burden of proving
the lack of good faith on the contesting party.  Once there is a showing
made by the settlor of the settlement, the burden of proof on the issue of good
faith shifts to the nonsettlor who asserts that the settlement was not
made in good faith.  If contested, declarations by the nonsettlor should be filed which in many cases
could require the moving party to file responsive counter declarations to negate the lack of good faith
asserted by the nonsettling contesting party. 
 
(192 Cal.App.3d 1251, 1260-61 (citation
omitted).) 
 
The evaluation of whether a settlement
was made in good faith is required to “be made on the basis of information
available at the time of settlement.”  (Tech-Bilt, Inc., supra, 38
Cal.3d at 499.)  “‘[A] defendant’s settlement figure must not be grossly
disproportionate to what a reasonable person, at the time of the settlement,
would estimate the settling defendant’s liability to be.’ [Citation.]”  (Id.) 
 
“The party asserting the lack of good
faith, who has the burden of proof on that issue (§ 877.6, subd. (d), should be
permitted to demonstrate, if he can, that the settlement is so far ‘out of the
ballpark’ in relation to these factors as to be inconsistent with the equitable
objectives of the statute.  Such a demonstration would establish that the
proposed settlement was not a ‘settlement made in good faith’ within the terms
of section 877.6.”  (Id. at 499-500.) 
 
“[A] court not only looks at the alleged
tortfeasor's potential liability to the plaintiff, but it must also consider
the culpability of the tortfeasor vis-à-vis other parties alleged to be
responsible for the same injury.  Potential liability for indemnity to a nonsettling defendant is an important consideration
for the trial court in determining whether to approve a settlement by an
alleged tortfeasor.  [Citation.]”  (TSI Seismic Tenant Space, Inc.
v. Superior Court (2007) 149 Cal.App.4th 159, 166.) 
 
B.   
Discussion
 
This
action arose out of a 4-vehicle automobile accident that occurred on April 19,
2022. Defendant Swanier allegedly rear-ended Defendant Levitt’s vehicle pushing
him into Plaintiff, Charisse Evans’ vehicle. Defendant Swanier, the moving party
here, notes that Plaintiff has allegedly incurred medical specials in the
amount of $29,929, and also sustained similar injuries in a subsequent incident
which occurred on December 1, 2023, and a prior accident in 2017. 
 
On
March 21, 2024, Defendant Swanier noted that Plaintiff’s attorney and her
attorney reached a settlement agreement where Swanier agreed to pay the
Plaintiff $40,000 in exchange for the dismissal of the complaint against Swanier.

 
The
moving papers state that on April 9, 2024, Swanier’s counsel sent a letter to
counsel for cross-complainant, requesting a dismissal of his cross-complaint,
otherwise Ms. Swanier would have to file a motion for determination of good
faith settlement. On April 10, 2024, Swanier asserts that counsel for
cross-complainant responded that he would make a substantive response to Swanier’s
meet and confer letter. However, as of the filing of this motion on May 1,
2024, Swanier claims she had not heard back from cross-complainant’s counsel. 
 
Rough Approximation
of Plaintiff’s Total Recovery and The Settlor's Proportionate Liability
 
            As noted above, Defendant, Shawn
Tabetha Swanier contends that Plaintiff’s rough estimate of a total recovery
would be $29,929, without providing the Court with a basis for determining how
much of those soft tissue and knee injury bills were or may have been attributable
to the other two incidents with Plaintiff. 
 Of course, with medical bills and
treatment come non-economic damages such as pain and suffering.  Some PI attorneys use a multiplier of 2, 3 or
4 times the medical special damages to attempt to provide a quasi-objective
basis for converting medical bills into an amount for pain and suffering.  If one third of the medical bills were attributed
to each of the 3 incidents, then the bills attributable to this incident would be
$10,000.  Those parameters would convert,
at the high end, to a potential total recovery of up to $150,000 and a low end
of $30,000.  The moving papers do not
give a basis for attributing liability to any other parties nor to the Plaintiff,
so it is difficult for the Court to assess whether the settling party should be
attributed 100% of a proportionate share for her role in carelessly bending
down to pick up her fallen cell phone in the footwell while driving, causing
her to fail to maintain a lookout and failing to stop before rear-ending the Plaintiff’s
vehicle, or some lesser percentage.  But a
$40,000 settlement appears to the Court, on the evidence presented to it and in
the absence of any opposition, to be within the Tech-Bilt ballpark.  
 
Settlor’s
Proportionate Liability
 
            Defendant Swanier concedes that she
was negligent, and that all parties were slowed or stopped at a red light when she
dropped her phone, and she bent down to pick it up thinking traffic had
proceeded, but when it had not, she rear-ended cross-complainant’s vehicle at
approximately 10 mph. 
 
The Amount
Paid and Allocated
 
            The settlement amount is for
$40,000, and Swanier notes she has already paid this amount to Plaintiff. 
 
Insurance
Policy Limits 
 
Defendant
Swanier notes that she has policy limits of $100,000 per person, so her payment
reserves some policy limits for some other incident that may be covered by the same
policy.  The fact that Plaintiff did not insist
on her paying the policy limits demonstrates to the Court that the $40,000 settlement
amount is within the ballpark.   
 
No Opposition
Brief
 
            This Court finds that based on the
motion, it appears that Defendant Swanier and Plaintiff have reached a good
faith settlement. The only issue this Court identified was dismissal of Swanier
in exchange for this settlement if there were still issues between Swanier and
Cross-Complainant, Michael Alan Levitt.  The cross-complaint only alleges causes of
action for: (1) Equitable Indemnity; (2) Comparative Indemnity; (3)
Contribution; and (4) Declaratory Relief. With no opposition brief filed, the
Court is tentatively inclined to assume that he does not and GRANTS the motion.

 
IV. CONCLUSION  
¿¿ 
            For the foregoing reasons, Defendant, Shawn
Tabetha Swanier’s Motion for Determination of Good Faith Settlement is GRANTED.

 
            Swanier is ordered to provide
notice.              
 
 