  Case Number:  23AHCV01367    Hearing Date:   November 13, 2024    Dept:  X PLAINTIFF'S MOTION FOR PEACE OFFICER PERSONNEL RECORDSPlaintiff moves for an order compelling disclosure of the information requested pertaining to former officers Michael Robert Casados, Louis Loya, and other known associates of Casados.  Doe 2, City has possession of the records sought to be discovered under the care and custody of the police department.Plaintiff alleges that Michael Casados used his position and authority as a police officer to sexually abuse Plaintiff from 1981 to 1986, when she was a minor.  The complaint alleges the City knew about Casados’ dangerous and exploitive propensities as early as 1976, when he was disciplined by a police tribunal of engaging in unlawful sex acts with a minor female, but only put on 6-month suspension and later returning to full police duties without restrictions.  The complaint alleges the Defendants failed to take reasonable measures to prevent the sexual abuse by Casados from occurring.Tentative RulingAs set forth in greater detail below, the motion is GRANTED at to Item Nos. 23 and 24.  It is denied as to the remaining requests for which there is no stipulation or agreement between the parties. Legal StandardThe records of a law enforcement agency’s internal investigation are considered confidential, subject to disclosure only upon “a proper showing of materiality, relevance and necessity.”  (Haggerty v. Superior Court (2004) 117 Cal.App.4th 1179, 1085; People v. Mooc (2001) 26 Cal.4th 1216, 1226; see also Pitchess v. Superior Court (1974) 11 Cal.3d 531.) Evidence Code section 1043, subdivision (a) requires that a party seeking disclosure of police officer “personnel records” file a particular motion, a Pitchess motion.  (Cf. Pitchess, supra, 11 Cal.3d 531.)  “Personnel records” are defined as “primary records specific to each peace or custodial officer’s employment, including evaluations, assignments, status changes, and imposed discipline.”  (Pen. Code, § 832.5, subd (d)(1).)  The Pitchess provisions “take precedence over the general discovery rules outlined in the Code of Civil Procedure.”  (Davis v. City of Sacramento (1994) 24 Cal.App.4th 393, 400.)“A finding of ‘good cause’ under section 1043, subdivision (b) is only the first hurdle in the discovery process.  Once good cause for discovery has been established, section 1045 provides that the court shall then examine the information ‘in chambers’ in conformity with section 915 (i.e., out of the presence of all persons except the person authorized to claim the privilege and such other persons as he or she is willing to have present), and shall exclude from disclosure several enumerated categories of information.”  (City of Santa Cruz v. Municipal Court (1989) 49 Cal.3d 74, 83.)  The excluded categories of information include, in criminal proceedings, “the conclusions of any officer investigating a complaint filed pursuant to section 832.5 of the Penal Code,” and otherwise include “[f]acts sought to be disclosed that are so remote as to make disclosure of little or no practical benefit.”  (Evid. Code, § 1045, subd. (b).)“Section 1043 clearly requires a showing of ‘good cause’ for discovery in two general categories: (1) the ‘materiality’ of the information or records sought to the “subject matter involved in the pending litigation,” and (2) a ‘reasonable belief’ that the governmental agency has the ‘type’ of information or records sought to be disclosed.”  (Santa Cruz, supra, 49 Cal.3d at p. 83.)Legal AnalysisFollowing significant meet and confer efforts, as well as an Informal Discovery Conference with the Court, the two primary categories of documents sought and for which there is no agreement are: Records relating to the personnel files and records including but not limited to any investigations and disciplinary records of Officer Louis Loya who allegedly covered up Casados’ abuse (Category 3); and Records relating to the investigation of more than a dozen peace officers from Casados’ division who were investigated for sexual misconduct or withholding information related to Casados’ prior sexual misconduct allegations (Category 4).Plaintiff submits a declaration of counsel outlining the underlying allegations of the Complaint, related to Plaintiff seeking damages arising out of sexual abuse committed against her while she was a child by police officer Michael Casados.  (Varon Decl. ¶ 2.)  Plaintiff’s motion argues that good cause supports requests related to misconduct within the Hollywood Division of the Law Enforcement Explorer Girls (“LEEG”) program, including Casado’s specific misconduct as apparently documented between 1976 and 1986.  (Points and Authorities, p. 7.)  Plaintiff alleges LAPD had prior notice of Casados’ sexual misconduct with another minor female six years prior to his abuse of Plaintiff.  (Points and Authorities, p. 12.)  Thus, Plaintiff argues, personnel records related to his hiring and supervision are highly material to this case.  Casados’ sexual misconduct history—and Defendant’s knowledge of it—is highly relevant to the causes of action Plaintiff advances against Defendant.  Defendant in opposition argues that Plaintiff has not adequately established the materiality of the requested documents to the Plaintiff’s causes of action, and the requests are overbroad and lack the specificity required by law.  Defendant asserts that Casados’ alleged abuse of Plaintiff was the product of his intra-familial relationships with Plaintiff.  The opposition argues Plaintiff’s motion should be denied, or in the alternative the documents in categories Three and Four should be limited.Plaintiff’s reply focuses on the third and fourth category of documents, essentially asserting that investigations concerning Loya as well as related to the Hollywood Division are material and relevant to Plaintiff’s claims.As to most of the requests at issue, the Court determines that they are not relevant or material.  First, Item Nos. 17 through 26 seek all personnel records pertaining to the hiring, supervision, training, separation/termination, and criminal investigation of Louis Loya, including but not limited to background checks, letters of recommendation, applications, and prevention of sexual abuse by police officers provided to Loya prior to April 1986 (Nos. 17-20); all records pertaining to disciplinary action taken against Loya at any time (Nos. 21); all audio and/or video recorded statements by Loya related to Casados, (No. 22); the names, address, and phone numbers of persons who made any complaint against Casados or Loya at any time (Nos. 23-24); and any information in connection with any internal affairs investigation into Loya related to allegations of acts of moral turpitude or covering up misconduct by other police officers (Nos. 25-26).  That Louis Loya is referenced in the complaint as saying he’d cover for Casados is insufficient to warrant the disclosure of the requested items.  He is not a named defendant nor are the issues asserted in the action related to his conduct, but rather that of the City.  In the absence of any additional information further connecting Loya’s conduct to Casados abuse of Plaintiff, Item Nos. 17-21 and 24-26 are denied.The Court, however, determines that Item Nos. 22 and 23 are material and should be produced.  The items should be limited to statements and complainants regarding sexual abuse or assault of a minor.As it relates to Item Nos. 27, 28(iii) and (iv), and 29, Plaintiff’s motion seeks personal information of each officer who participated in the Hollywood Division LEEG program between 1969 to 1976, any information concerning investigation or disciplinary proceedings of Hollywood Division officers engaged in sexual misconduct or cover up between 1976 to 1986, and any information concerning a Hollywood Division officer involved in insubordination and withholding information from investigators related to claims of sexual misconduct.  Plaintiff argues that she is entitled to records relating to investigations into Casados’ fellow Hollywood Division officers, more than a dozen of whom were investigated for misconduct associated with sexual abuse of minors in the LEEG program.  Plaintiff alleges the misconduct included sexual abuse, insubordination, and withholding information from investigators—similar to what Plaintiff experienced a few years later.  Further, Plaintiff argues, the names and contact information of Casados’ previous partners, work associates, and those who worked in a supervisory capacity over him—as well as records pertaining to disciplinary action taken against Michael Casados by his superiors including probation, suspension, or leaves of absence—are necessary for Plaintiff to effectuate discovery.  The motion argues “[i]n light of the nature of the allegations in this case and the decade-long history of sexual misconduct within the Hollywood Division including Casados’s specific misconduct as apparently documented in 1976 and 1986, good cause exists to order the production of all records sought herein.”  (Points and Authorities, p. 7.)The motion is accompanied by evidence in Plaintiff’s counsel Varon’s declaration.  Casados was suspended for six months by a police tribunal which found him guilty of engaging in sexual acts with a 17-year-old female Hollywood Explorer Scout.  (Varon Decl., Exh. 2.)  There is also evidence of a new report from 1976 that names four Hollywood Division officers under probe in an Explorer Girl sex case.  The article also names five other officers charged for misconduct. (Varon Decl., Exh. 3.)  There is also evidence of a 1982 new report that describes the Hollywood Division Explorer program coming under investigation for sexual misconduct—and Varon declares Casados was still assigned to the Hollywood Division in 1982.  (Varon Decl., Exh. 4.)The Court recognizes the seriousness of the misconduct involved in Exhibits 2 to 4.  But the Court is not persuaded that the information requested in Item Nos. 27, 28(iii) and (iv), and 29 are material to the instant case.  The requests are overbroad, particularly where Plaintiff did not participate in the Hollywood Division LEEG program yet seeks information about misconduct during the program by Hollywood Division officers. Finally, the Court determines that good cause or materiality has not been met concerning Item Nos. 30 to 37, which seek all records pertaining to action taken against the following people at any time, including but not limited to probation, suspension, or leaves of absence: (1) Sgt. Ronald Roark, (2) John L. White, (3) Wayne Curtis, (4) Ronald Bernard, (5) Richard Engstrum, (6) Louis A. Parker, (7) Kevin M. Kirsch, and (8) Raymond A. Paladino.  The eight officers are the ones named in the October 14, 1976 Valley News report attached to the Varon Declaration as Exhibit 3.  The officers are not named in the complaint.  The motion does not explain how the records requested are relevant to the allegations and claims involved in this litigation, other than that they might contain information related to Casados.  Many of these records are unrelated to the Plaintiff’s causes of action against the City and will not be determinative as to whether the City had knowledge of Casados’ alleged sexual abuse and misconduct related to Plaintiff. Accordingly, the Court grants Plaintiff’s requests in Item Nos. 22 and 23, and denies the remaining disputed requests for the reasons set forth above.