 Case Number:  20STCV27217    Hearing Date:   January 4, 2024    Dept:  29   Tentative The Court ORDERS Plaintiff Mendez to provide  further information as set forth herein and CONTINUES the hearing on the motion  for monetary and non-monetary sanctions. Background On July 20, 2020, Plaintiffs Alberto  Naranjo and Antonia Mendez filed the Complaint in this action against Salvador  Gallegos, Fastenal Company, and Does 1 through 100 asserting causes of action  for (1) motor vehicle negligence, (2) general negligence, and (3) loss of  consortium arising out of an automobile accident on May 1, 2019 in Santa Fe  Springs, California. Defendant Salvador Gallegos (“Defendant”) served Special Interrogatories  (Set Two) on Plaintiff Antonia Mendez (“Plaintiff”).  Although there was some dispute between the  parties regarding whether and when the discovery was served, this Court  previously ruled that the discovery was served by no later than May 31,  2023.  (Minute Order of August 29, 2023,  at p. 3.)  On August 29, 2023, the Court  granted Defendant’s motion to compel and ordered Plaintiff to provide verified,  code-compliant responses, without objection, within 21 days.  (Id., at p. 4.)   Plaintiff served responses on September 13 and then amended responses on  September 21.  (Semon Decl., Exhs. C and  D.)  The parties dispute whether the  responses are properly verified, code-complaint, and without objection.   On October 25, 2023, Defendant filed  this motion seeking monetary and non-monetary sanctions against Plaintiff.  Plaintiff filed her opposition on November  30, 2023. Defendants filed their reply on December 7, 2023.  The hearing was initially set for December 14  and then was continued, on the Court’s own motion, to January 4, 2024.   Trial is scheduled for January 24, 2024.   Legal Standard After a motion to  compel is granted, if a party “fails to obey an order compelling further  response to interrogatories, the court may make those orders that are just,  including the imposition of an issue sanction, an evidence sanction, or a  terminating sanction under Chapter 7 ….   In lieu of, or in addition to, that sanction, the court may impose a  monetary sanction under Chapter 7 ….”   (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.300, subd. (e).) In Chapter  7 of the Civil Discovery Act, Code of Civil Procedure section 2023.010 provides  “To the extent authorized by the chapter governing any particular discovery  method or any other provision of this title, the court, after notice to any  affected party, person, or attorney, and after opportunity for hearing, may  impose the following sanctions against anyone engaging in conduct that is a  misuse of the discovery process: ... (b) The court may impose an issue sanction  ordering that designated facts shall be taken as established in the action in  accordance with the claim of the party adversely affected by the misuse of the  discovery process. The court may also impose an issue sanction by an order  prohibiting any party engaging in the misuse of the discovery process from  supporting or opposing designated claims or defenses. (c) The court may impose  an evidence sanction by an order prohibiting any party engaging in the misuse  of the discovery process from introducing designated matters in evidence."  (Code  Civ. Proc., § 2023.030.) “Misuses of the discovery process include, but are not  limited to, the following: ... (d) Failing to respond or to submit to an  authorized method of discovery. ... (g) Disobeying a court order to provide  discovery."  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2023.010.) The  Civil Discovery Act provides for an escalating and “incremental approach to  discovery sanctions, starting with monetary sanctions and ending with the  ultimate sanction of termination.” (Lopez v. Watchtower Bible & Tract  Society of New York, Inc. (2016) 246 Cal.App.4th 566,  604.) Discovery sanctions should be appropriate to and commensurate with  the misconduct, and they “should not exceed that which is required to protect  the interests of the party entitled to but denied discovery.” (Doppes v.  Bentley Motors, Inc. (2009) 174 Cal.App.4th 967, 992.) “If a lesser  sanction fails to curb misuse, a greater sanction is warranted: continuing  misuses of the discovery process warrant incrementally harsher sanctions until  the sanction is reached that will curb the abuse.” (Ibid.; see also,  e.g., Mileikowsky v. Tenet Healthsystem (2005) 128 Cal.App.4th  262, 279-280.)   The  primary purpose of discovery sanctions is to obtain compliance with the Civil  Discovery Act and the Court’s orders. It is not to punish. (Newland v.  Super. Ct. (1995) 40 Cal.App.4th 608, 613; Ghanooni v. Super  Shuttle of Los Angeles (1993) 20 Cal.App.4th 256, 262.) A discovery  sanction should not create a “windfall” for a party or place a party in a  better position than it would have been if the opposing party had simply  complied with its obligations under the Court’s orders and the Civil Discovery  Act. (Rutledge v. Hewlett-Packard Co. (2015) 238 Cal.App.4th 1164,  1194; see also 2 Weil & Brown, California Practice Guide: Civil Procedure  Before Trial (The Rutter Group 2023), ¶¶ 8:2214-2220.) Judicial  Notice Defendant seeks judicial notice of Exhibit B,  the Notice of Ruling re Defendants’ Motion to Compel. The Court GRANTS judicial  notice of this Exhibit. Discussion On August 29, 2023, the Court ordered Plaintiff to provide verified,  code-compliant responses, without objection, to Defendant’s Special  Interrogatories (Set Two) within 21 days.   (Minute Order of August 29, 2023, at p. 4.)  Plaintiff served responses on September 13.  (Semon Decl., Exh. C.)  After further communication between counsel,  Plaintiff served amended responses on September 21.  (Id., Exh D.)   The parties have a number of disputes regarding the responses.  The Court now discusses each of these  disputes.   Objections   The response that Plaintiff served on September 13 included  objections.  (Semon Decl., Exh. C, at p. 2.)  This was improper.  (Minute Order of August 29, 2023, at p. 4.)  When this defect was brought to the attention  of Plaintiff’s counsel, Plaintiff promptly served an amended response that did  not include the improper objections.   (Semon Decl., Exh. D.)   This issue has been resolved through the meet-and-confer process.  The Court does not find any basis to impose  sanctions against Plaintiff under these circumstances, in which objections were  asserted but then quickly and promptly withdrawn.   Verification   The responses that Plaintiff served on September 13 and 21 included a  verification with an apparent drafting error.   (Semon Decl., Exhs. E & F.)  This  issue could have been, and should have been, quickly remedied once it was  brought to the attention of Plaintiff’s counsel.  It is unclear why that did not occur – and the  Court is concerned that perhaps what appears to be an error was instead intentional.   In any event, the remedy for this is straightforward: the Court ORDERS  Plaintiff to serve a proper verification of the responses within 7 days.      Diligent Search and Reasonable Inquiry   In her responses, Plaintiff states that even after conducting a “diligent  search and reasonable inquiry,” she is unable to provide contact information  (address, phone number, and email address) for a number of her relatives.  Even though this appears to be in the correct  form, it is nonetheless unclear (at best) whether these are truly code  compliant responses.  Code of Civil  Procedure section 2030.220, subdivision (c), requires a responding party to  make “a reasonable and good faith effort to obtain the information  by inquiry to other natural persons,” and it is difficult to believe  that Plaintiff could not obtain some or all of the requested information through  inquiry to other members of her family.   Plaintiff  argues that the Code of Civil Procedure does not require her to state in her  interrogatory response the details of her “diligent search and reasonable  inquiry.”  Although that is correct, it  does not resolve the issue here, where a motion is pending before the Court.  The Court may require evidence from a party  to determine whether the party has met its obligations under section 2030.220 –  but here, in her opposition to this motion, Plaintiff offers no declaration or  information to the Court regarding the nature of her effort to obtain the  information.  The conclusory statement in  her discovery response (which is not even properly verified) does not answer  the question and is not sufficient in the context of a pending motion.   Accordingly,  the Court ORDERS Plaintiff, within 7 days, either (a) to provide a further supplemental  response that includes the requested contact information for her family members  or (b) to file with the Court a declaration that sets forth facts explaining in  detail the “reasonable and good faith effort” Plaintiff made “to obtain the  information” responsive to the interrogatories, including all “inquiry” she  made “to other natural persons.”   Sanctions The Court CONTINUES the hearing on Defendant’s  request for monetary and non-monetary sanctions until after Plaintiff has had  the opportunity to address the issues identified in this ruling with regard to  the verifications and the responses. Conclusion   The Court ORDERS Plaintiff to serve a proper  verification of her responses to Defendant’s Special Interrogatories (Set Two) within  7 days of notice of this ruling. The Court  ORDERS Plaintiff, within 7 days,  either (a) to serve a further supplemental response that includes the requested  contact information for her family members or (b) to file with the Court a  declaration that sets forth facts explaining in detail the “reasonable and good  faith effort” Plaintiff made “to obtain the information” responsive to the  interrogatories, including all “inquiry” she made “to other natural persons.” The Court CONTINUES the hearing  on this motion for approximately 14 days, to January 19, 2024, at 1:30 pm, in  Department 29 of the Spring Street Courthouse.   The Court ORDERS  moving party give notice.  