 Case Number:  22STCV24102    Hearing Date:   January 4, 2024    Dept:  29 Motion to Compel
the Deposition of Plaintiff filed by Defendant Evolution Energy Solutions, LLC.
Tentative
The Court GRANTS Evolution’s motion to compel
the deposition of Plaintiff, subject to the accommodations set forth in this ruling.
The Court DENIES Evolution’s request for
monetary sanctions under the Civil Discovery Act.
Background
On July 26, 2021, Plaintiff Pamela
Maxine Simuel (“Plaintiff”), filed suit against Evolution
Energy Solutions, LLC, 15105 Sherman Way LLC, and DOES 1 through 10,
alleging the causes of action of Premise Liability and General Negligence from
a falling incident occurring on February 2, 2021.  
 
On September 19, 2023, Defendant
Evolution Solutions, LLC (“Evolution”) served a notice of Plaintiff’s
deposition, scheduled for October 23. 
(Navarrete Decl., ¶ 16 & Exh. F.) 
Counsel met and conferred, and Plaintiff’s counsel agreed to produce
Plaintiff for deposition as noticed.  (Id.,
¶ 17.)  Three days before the deposition,
Plaintiff’s counsel emailed Evolution’s counsel and advised that Plaintiff was
ill and would not be able to attend her deposition.  (Id., ¶ 18.)  Despite promises from Plaintiff’s counsel,
counsel has not offered alternative dates for the deposition.  (Id., ¶¶ 20-21.)
 
On November
15, 2023, Evolution filed this motion to compel the deposition of Plaintiff.  Evolution also requests sanctions.  On November 21, Defendant 15105 Sherman Way
LLC (“Sherman Way”) filed a joinder.  
 
On December 6, 2023, Plaintiff filed
her opposition. On December 12, 2023, Evolution filed its reply. 
 
Legal Standard
“Any party may obtain discovery … by
taking in California the oral deposition of any person, including any party to
the action.”  (Code Civ. Proc., §
2025.010.)  Code of Civil Procedure
sections 2025.210 through 2025.280 provide the requirements for (among other
things) what must be included in a deposition notice, when and where
depositions may be taken, and how and when the notice must be served.  
“The service of a deposition notice …
is effective to require any deponent who is a party to the action … to attend
and to testify, as well as to produce any document, electronically stored
information, or tangible thing for inspection and copying.”  (Id., § 2025.280, subd. (a).)
Section 2025.410, subdivision (a),
requires any party to serve a written objection at least three days before the
deposition if the party contends that a deposition notice does not comply with
the provisions of sections 2025.210 through 2025.280.
“If, after service of a deposition
notice, a party to the action or an officer, director, managing agent, or
employee of a party, or
a person designated by an organization that is a party under Section 2025.230, without having served a valid
objection under Section 2025.410, fails to appear for examination, or to
proceed with it, or to produce for¿inspection any document, electronically
stored information, or tangible thing described in the deposition notice, the
party giving the notice may move for an order compelling the deponent’s attendance
and testimony, and the production for inspection of any document,
electronically stored information, or tangible thing described in the
deposition notice.”  (Id.,  §
2025.450, subd. (a).)  Any such motion to compel must show good
cause for the production of documents and, when a deponent has failed to
appear, the motion must be accompanied “by a declaration stating that the
petitioner has contacted the deponent to inquire about the nonappearance.”  (Id., § 2025.450, subd. (b).)  “Implicit in the requirement that counsel contact
the deponent to inquire about the nonappearance is a requirement that counsel
listen to the reasons offered and make a good faith attempt to resolve the
issue,” including by rescheduling. (Leko v. Cornerstone Bldg. Inspection
Serv. (2001) 86 Cal.App.4th 1109, 1124. See
also L.A.S.C.L.R. 3.26, Appendix 3.A(e) (reasonable consideration should be
given to accommodating schedules in setting depositions).) 
When a motion to compel is granted, “the
court shall impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with Section
2023.010) in favor of the party who noticed the deposition and against the
deponent or the party with whom the deponent is affiliated, unless the court
finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification
or that other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.” 
(Id., § 2025.450, subd. (g)(1).)  
In Chapter 7 of the Civil Discovery Act, section
2023.010, subdivision (d), defines “[m]isuses of the discovery process” to
include “[f]ailing to respond to or to submit to an authorized method of
discovery.”  Where a party or attorney
has engaged in misuse of the discovery process, the court may impose a monetary
sanction in the amount of “the reasonable expenses, including attorney’s fees,
incurred by anyone as a result of that conduct.”  (Id., § 2023.030, subd. (a).) 
Joinder
Sherman Way’s
request for joinder is GRANTED.  As it
relates to the deposition of Plaintiff, the interests of Evolution and Sherman
Way are aligned, and allowing joinder will promote efficiency.
Discussion
On September 19, 2023, served a proper
notice for Plaintiff’s deposition on October 23.  (Navarrete Decl., ¶ 16 & Exh. F.)  Plaintiff’s counsel confirmed that his client
would attend.  (Id., ¶ 17.)  Three days before the deposition, however, Plaintiff’s
counsel emailed Evolution’s counsel and advised that Plaintiff would not attend
because she was ill.  (Id., ¶
18.)  Plaintiff’s counsel has not offered
alternative dates for the deposition.  (Id.,
¶¶ 20-21.)  There is no indication that
Plaintiff served a timely objection to the deposition notice.
In her opposition, Plaintiff presents a note
from Plaintiff’s doctor statement, in rather general terms, that Plaintiff
should not be required to submit to “a legal deposition that could last for 2
hours or longer” because of her “medical conditions.”  (Dordick Decl., Exh. A.)  Plaintiff states that she is willing to “submit
to a deposition with reasonable accommodations.”  (Opp. at p. 4.)  Those accommodations include that the
deposition be taken at the office of Plaintiff’s counsel and that no session of
the deposition last more than two hours. 
(Id. at p. 5.) 
The Court has considered all of the evidence
and argument presented by all parties. 
Plaintiff failed to appear at a properly noticed deposition, without
serving any valid objection in advance. 
Accordingly, the Court GRANTS Evolution’s motion to compel the
deposition of Plaintiff.
Plaintiff requested accommodations in her
Opposition.  These accommodations appear reasonable,
and Evolution does not oppose them its reply. 
Accordingly, the Court grants the accommodations, as set forth below.
The Court DENIES Evolution’s request for monetary
sanctions under the Civil Discovery Act. 
Plaintiff failed to appear at her deposition, but counsel acted
reasonably in advising Evolution three days in advance and requesting
accommodations.  Under these
circumstances, the Court finds that Plaintiff and her counsel acted with
substantial justification, and that it would be unjust to impose sanctions upon
them.
Conclusion
The Court GRANTS Evolution’s motion to compel
the deposition of Plaintiff.
The Court ORDERS Plaintiff to appear for and
testify at her deposition at a date and time to as agreed to by counsel, but in
no event more than 30 days after the hearing on this motion, subject to the
following: (1) the deposition will be taken in the office of Plaintiff’s
counsel; (2) no session of the deposition will exceed two hours, except as
agreed to by Plaintiff and her counsel; (3) in the event that multiple sessions
of the deposition are necessary, they will be scheduled as agreed to by
counsel, but in no event with more than five court days between sessions. 
The Court DENIES Evolution’s request for
monetary sanctions under the Civil Discovery Act.
Moving
party is ORDERED to give notice.
 