 Case Number:  22STCV30861    Hearing Date:   January 4, 2024    Dept:  29 Tentative
The Court GRANTS the motion to transfer venue
to San Diego County Superior Court under Code of Civil Procedure 397.
Background
In this case, Plaintiff Sandra
Azucena Ramirez alleges that she was injured when she slipped and fell on a hazardous
liquid substance on the floor of commercial premises located on Fletcher
Parkway in El Cajon, California.  In the
Complaint, filed on September 21, 2022, Plaintiff Ramirez asserts claims for
negligence and premises liability, and her husband, Plaintiff Florentino
Ajejandre, asserts a claim for loss of consortium.  The Defendants in the Complaint are
identified as Pacific Retail Capital Partners LLC; Starwood Capital Group
Management LLC; Starwood Property Trust, Inc.; ERMC Property Management Co of
Illinois LLC; and Does 1 through 100.
On January 3 and October 4, 2023,
Plaintiffs amended their Complaint to name Star-West Parkway Mall GP, LLC as
Doe 1; Starwood Retail Property Management as Doe 2; ERMC, LLC as Doe 3; Professional
Security Consultants as Doe 4; and Wetzel’s Pretzels, LLC as Doe 5.
On January 9 and April 25, 2023, the
Court, at the request of Plaintiffs, dismissed their claims against all of the
four initially named defendants: Pacific Retail Capital Partners LLC; Starwood
Capital Group Management LLC; Starwood Property Trust, Inc.; and ERMC Property
Management Co of Illinois LLC.  
The five entities initially named as
Doe defendants have appeared and filed answers: Star-West Parkway Mall GP, LLC
(“Star-West”); Starwood Retail Property Management (“Starwood Retail”); ERMC,
LLC (“ERMC”); Professional Security Consultants; and JES Family, Inc.
(erroneously sued as Wetzel’s Pretzels, LLC).
On November 8, 2023, Defendants Star-West,
Starwood Retail, and ERMC (collectively, “Moving Parties”) filed this motion to
transfer venue to San Diego Superior Court. 
Plaintiffs filed their opposition on November 16, and Moving Parties filed
their reply on December 21.
Legal Standard
Pursuant
to CCP §395(a), an action for personal injuries is properly brought in the
“superior court in either the county where the injury occurs or the injury
causing death occurs or the county where the defendants, or some of them reside
at the commencement of the action, is a proper court for the trial of the
action.”   
A motion
for change of venue must be supported by competent evidence, such as the
complaint and declarations of the parties. 
(Mosby v. Superior Court (1974) 43 Cal.App.3d 219, 227; see also Lieppman
v. Lieber (1986) 180 Cal. App. 3d 914, 919 [declaration that relies on
hearsay, generalities, and conclusions must be disregarded in determining the
motion].)  When the motion seeks transfer
to the moving defendant’s county of residence on wrong court grounds, the
motion must establish the defendant was a resident of the county to which the
transfer is sought at the time the action was commenced.  (Sequoia Pine Mills, Inc. v. Superior
Court of Tuolumne County (1968) 258 Cal.App.2d 65, 67-68.)   
Statutory
provisions relating to venue in civil actions provide that, when a defendant
believes that an action has been filed in an improper or unauthorized venue and
wishes to object to trial of the proceeding in that venue, the defendant must
object specifically and promptly, or the objection will be forfeited. (People
v. Simon (2001) 25 Cal. 4th 1082, 1102.)
Additionally,
under CCP § 397, after a motion has been filed a court may change the place of
trial: 
“(a)
When the court designated in the complaint is not the proper court. 
(b) When
there is reason to believe that an impartial trial cannot be had therein. 
(c) When
the convenience of witnesses and the ends of justice would be promoted by the
change. 
(d) When
from any cause there is no judge of the court qualified to act. 
(e) When
a proceeding for dissolution of marriage has been filed in the county in which
the petitioner has been a resident for three months next preceding the
commencement of the proceeding, and the respondent at the time of the
commencement of the proceeding is a resident of another county in this state,
to the county of the respondent's residence when the ends of justice would be
promoted by the change.”
Discussion
Moving Parties
seek to transfer venue to San Diego County Superior Court.  As Moving Parties point out, the incident
occurred at a mall in San Diego County, the Plaintiffs reside in San Diego
County, most or all of their 20 identified treating physicians are located in
San Diego County, and the other witnesses (including Defendants’ employees) are
located primarily if not entirely in San Diego County.  (See Norman Decl., Exh. 1 [responses to Form
Interrogatories], at 6.4, 12.1 &  Exh. 2 [responses to Special Interrogatories],
at 7.)  
Moving
Parties also argue that while one of the originally named defendants may have resided
in Los Angeles County, all of those defendants have been dismissed.  (Motion, at p. 5.)  Moving parties recognize that the case has
been pending for more than a year but argue that the parties have spent most of
the past year identifying the proper parties, adding them to the case, and dismissing
the original defendants, and that the Court has not yet issued any substantive rulings.  (Ibid.)
In
response, Plaintiffs make essentially four arguments: (1) that one of the
current defendants (Professional Security Consultants) is based in Los Angeles
County; (2) that Plaintiff’s choice of venue is presumptive correct, is entitled
to deference, and can only be overcome by a showing of substantial
justification; (3) that the motion should be denied based on delay; and (4) any
inconvenience to witnesses can be addressed by remote appearances or other
technological solutions.
After
careful consideration of all of the evidence and argument presented by the
parties, the Court GRANTS the motion to transfer venue to San Diego
County.  The Court recognizes, of course,
that a plaintiff’s choice of where to file is entitled to deference, and that
technology can be used to address the practical problems that arise when witnesses
reside some distance from the courthouse. 
Here, however, the incident occurred in San Diego County, and all or
substantially all of the witnesses live and work in San Diego County. Under
these circumstances, Moving Parties have shown that there should be a transfer
of venue under Code of Civil Procedure section 397, subdivision (c).  Nor have moving parties unreasonably delayed
in bringing their motion; the case is still at an early stage, and, indeed, two
of the five defendants were not named until October and did not appear until
December 2023, while this motion was pending.
Conclusion
The Court
GRANTS the motion to transfer venue under Code of Civil Procedure 397.  
The
Court ORDERS that this case be transferred to San Diego County Superior Court.
Moving
Parties are ORDERED to pay all transfer fees (in both the Los Angeles County
Superior Court and San Diego County Superior Court).
Moving Parties are ORDERED to give notice.
 