 Case Number:  21STCV43761    Hearing Date:   January 4, 2024    Dept:  29 Motion for Leave to File First Amended Cross-Complaint filed  by Defendant Walmart, Inc.  Motion to Continue Trial filed by TK Elevators    Tentative The  Court GRANTS TKE’s motion to continue trial.      The Court GRANTS  Walmart’s motion for leave to amend its Cross-Complaint.   Background Mercedes Marisol Trejo  ("Plaintiff") alleges that she was injured when she slipped and fell on  April 25, 2020, at a Walmart location on Eastland Center Drive in West Covina,  California.  Plaintiff filed the  Complaint in this action on December 1, 2021, asserting causes of action for  negligence and premises liability against Defendants Walmart,  Inc. (“Walmart”), Rafael Garcia, and Does 1 through 30.   On January 5, 2022, Walmart filed its  Answer to the Complaint.   On March 4, 2022, the Court, at the  request of Plaintiff, dismissed all claims against Defendant Garcia with  prejudice.   On May 24, 2022, Walmart filed a  Cross-Complaint against Schindler Elevator Corporation (“Schindler”) and Roes 1  through 25.    On October 13, 2022, Plaintiff  amended her complaint to name Schindler as Doe 1. Schindler filed its Answer to  the Complaint on November 16, 2022.   On February 15, 2023, the Court, at  the request of Walmart, dismissed the claims in Walmart’s Cross-Complaint against  Schindler.    On March 27, 2023, Walmart amended its  Cross-Complaint to name TK Elevator Corporation (“TKE”) as Roe 1 and CBRE  Group, Inc. (“CBRE”) as Roe 2.  CBRE  filed its Answer to the Cross-Complaint on May 12, 2023.  TKE filed its Answer to the Cross-Complaint  on June 9, 2023.  On the same day, TKE  filed a Cross-Complaint against Roes 1 through 25. On September 11, 2023, the Court, at  the request of Walmart, dismissed the claims in Walmart’s Cross-Complaint  against CBRE.   Before the Court at this time are two  motions.   First, on October 2, 2023, Walmart filed  this motion for leave to amend its Cros-Complaint. On December 4, 2023, TKE filed  its opposition, and on December 8, 2023, Defendant filed its reply.   Second, on November 29, 2023, TKE filed  its motion to continue trial and related dates. No opposition has been  filed.     Legal Standard California Code  of Civil Procedure section 473 permits the court, in furtherance of justice and  on any proper terms, to allow a party to amend any pleading or proceeding by  adding or striking out the name of any party, or by correcting a mistake in the  name of a party, or a mistake in any other respect; and may, upon like terms,  enlarge the time for answer or demurrer. (Code Civ. Proc., § 473, subd. (a); Branick  v. Downey Savings & Loan Association (2006) 39 Cal.4th 235, 242.) The  court may also, in its discretion and after notice to the adverse party, allow,  upon any terms as may be just, an amendment to any pleading or proceeding in  other particulars; and may upon like terms allow an answer to be made after the  time limited by this code. (Code Civ. Proc., § 473, subd. (a); Branick, supra,  39 Cal.4th at 242.)  As judicial policy  favors resolution of all disputed matters between the parties, leave to amend  is generally liberally granted. (See Kolani v. Gluska (1998) 64  Cal.App.4th 402, 412.) The court may deny the plaintiff’s leave to amend if  there is prejudice to the opposing party, such as delay in trial, loss of  critical evidence, or added costs of preparation. (Id.)  A motion to  amend a pleading before trial must (1) include a copy of the proposed amendment  or amended pleading, which must be serially numbered to differentiate it from  previous pleadings or amendments; (2) state what allegations in the previous  pleading are proposed to be deleted, if any, and where, by page, paragraph and  line number, the deleted allegations are located; and (3) state what  allegations are proposed to be added to the previous pleading, if any, and  where, by page, paragraph, and line number, the additional allegations are  located. (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1324(a).) A separate supporting  declaration specifying (1) the effect of the amendment; (2) why the amendment  is necessary and proper; (3) when the facts giving rise to the amended allegations  were discovered; and (4) the reason why the request for amendment was not made  earlier must accompany the motion. (Id., rule 3.1324(b).) Code Civ. Proc. § 128(a)(8) provides that the  court has the power to amend and control its process and orders to make them  conform to law and justice. “The power to determine when a continuance should  be granted is within the discretion of the trial court.” (Color-Vue, Inc. v.  Abrams (1996) 44 Cal.App.4th 1599, 1603.) “A trial court has wide latitude in  the matter of calendar control including the granting or denying of  continuances.” (Park Motors, Inc. v. Cozens (1975) 49 Cal.App.3d 12, 18.)   Each request for a continuance must be  considered on its own merits according to California Rules of Court, Rule  3.1332(c). The court may grant a continuance only on an affirmative showing of  good cause requiring the continuance. Circumstances of good cause include:   “(1) The unavailability of an essential lay  or expert witness because of death, illness, or other excusable  circumstances;   (2) The unavailability of a party because of  death, illness, or other excusable circumstances;   (3) The unavailability of trial counsel  because of death, illness, or other excusable circumstances;   (4) The substitution of trial counsel, but  only where there is an affirmative showing that the substitution is required in  the interests of justice;   (5) The addition of a new party if: (A) The  new party has not had a reasonable opportunity to conduct discovery and prepare  for trial; or (B) The other parties have not had a reasonable opportunity to  conduct discovery and prepare for trial in regard to the new party's  involvement in the case;   (6) A party's excused inability to obtain  essential testimony, documents, or other material evidence despite diligent  efforts; or   (7) A significant, unanticipated change in  the status of the case as a result of which the case is not ready for  trial.”   (Cal. Rules of  Court, Rule 3.1332(c).)     California Rules  of Court, Rule 3.1332 sets forth a list of non-exhaustive factors to be  analyzed when determining whether good cause for a trial continuance is  present. A court considers factors such as:    “(1) The proximity of the trial date;   (2) Whether there was any previous  continuance, extension of time, or delay of trial due to any party;   (3) The length of the continuance  requested;   (4) The availability of alternative means to  address the problem that gave rise to the motion or application for a  continuance;   (5) The prejudice that parties or witnesses  will suffer as a result of the continuance;  (6) If the case is entitled to a preferential  trial setting, the reasons for that status and whether the need for a  continuance outweighs the need to avoid delay;  (7) The court's calendar and the impact of  granting a continuance on other pending trials;  (8) Whether trial counsel is engaged in  another trial;   (9) Whether all parties have stipulated to a  continuance;   (10) Whether the interests of justice are  best served by a continuance, by the trial of the matter, or by imposing  conditions on the continuance; and   (11) Any other fact or circumstance relevant  to the fair determination of the motion or application.”   (Cal. Rules of Court, Rule 3.1332(d).) Discussion Continue Trial TK  Elevators requests a continuance of trial, arguing that it was brought into  this action in June of 2023, and needs more time to complete discovery,  including written discovery, depositions and site inspections. (Brueggemann  Decl., ¶ 3, 6.) Further, the parties filed a joint stipulation to continue the  trial date on October 25, 2023. (Id., ¶ 7.) This stipulation was denied without prejudice for procedural  reasons, but it shows that all parties are in agreement and no party would be  unfairly prejudiced by the requested continuance.   The Court finds TK Elevators has established good  cause for continuing the trial date.  Based  on the agreement of the parties, and for good cause shown, the motion is  GRANTED.  Trial is continued to October  1, 2024.   Leave to Amend Cross-Complaint The  Cross-Complaint filed by Walmart in May 2022, and subsequently amended to name  TKE as a Roe Cross-Defendant, asserts causes of action for indemnification,  comparative indemnity and contribution, and declaratory relief.  Walmart now seeks to amend the  Cross-Complaint to add causes of action for breach of express contract, express  contractual indemnity, breach of duty to defend, and an additional claim for  declaratory relief.  Defendant includes a  copy of the First Amended Cross-Complaint with its filing. (Richardson Decl., ¶  3; Exhibit A.) In support of  the motion, Walmart cites the liberal policy of allowing amendment and its  ongoing investigation.  Walmart asserts  that it initially formed the mistaken belief that Schindler, not TKE, was the  party maintaining the escalator at the premises at issue, and now that it has  recognized that TKE is the correct party, it seeks to amend the Cross-Complaint  to add claims based upon the provisions of the express contract between the  parties. TKE’s primary  argument in opposition is that it would be prejudiced by the amendment,  particularly in light of the upcoming trial date of February 1, 2024.  That date, however, has been continued (see  above).  TKE’s other arguments are not  sufficient to overcome the strong policy in favor of liberality in allowing  amendments to pleadings, absent a showing of prejudice. Accordingly, the  Court GRANTS Walmart’s motion for leave to amend its Cross-Complaint.    Conclusion   The  Court GRANTS TKE’s motion to continue trial.   Trial is continued to October 1, 2024.   The Final Status Conference and all deadlines are reset based on the new  trial date.Final Status Conference is continued to 09/17/2024 at 10:00 AM in Department 29 at Spring 
Street Courthouse. Non-Jury Trial is continued to 10/01/2024 at 08:30 AM in Department 29 at 
Spring Street Courthouse.   The Court GRANTS Walmart’s motion  for leave to amend its Cross-Complaint.   Walmart is granted leave to file the amended Cross-Complaint attached to  the moving papers within 10 days of notice of this ruling   Counsel  for Walmart is ordered to give notice as to the Court’s ruling on both motions.