 Case Number:  23LBCV01149    Hearing Date:   May 28, 2024    Dept:  S25 Procedural BackgroundPlaintiffs Lorena Vasquez, individually and as a representative of the Estate of Eduardo Vasquez, Kiersten Vasquez, individually and as a representative of the Estate of Eduardo Vasquez, Dylan Vasquez, individually and as a representative of the Estate of Eduardo Vasquez, and Caleb Vasquez (a minor) (“Plaintiffs”) bring this complaint alleging Brian Willard Grayley (“Defendant”) that on or around May 3, 2022, Defendant, while under the influence of drugs and/or alcohol, maliciously drove his vehicle and stuck Eduardo Vasquez’s vehicle which resulted in severe injuries and Mr. Vasquez’s subsequent death.Defendant requests the following portions be stricken from Plaintiffs’ complaint: Paragraph 14(a)(2), Paragraph EX-1, Paragraph EX-2, and Paragraph EX-3.Meet and ConferPrior to filing a motion to strike, the moving party is required to satisfy their meet and confer obligations pursuant to Code of Civ. Proc., § 435.5, and demonstrate that they so satisfied their meet and confer obligation by submitting a declaration pursuant to Code of Civ. Proc., § 435.5, subd. (a)(2) & (3). Upon reviewing the Declaration of Heather G. Cote, it appears that the parties met and conferred prior to Defendant’s filing the instant motion to strike. (See Cote Decl., ¶¶ 4-5.) Defendant’s counsel made a reasonably good faith effort to meet and confer with Plaintiffs’ counsel on October 4, 2023, by written correspondence. (See Cote Decl., ¶ 4.; Exh. B.) Plaintiffs’ counsel initially agreed to file a First Amended Complaint (“FAC”) and provided Defendant a time extension to file a responsive pleading pending the FAC; however, on April 17, 2024, Plaintiffs’ counsel advised Defendant’s counsel that an FAC would not be filled. (See Cote Decl., ¶¶ 4-5; Exhs. B, C.) Subsequently, Defendant filed the instant motion to strike. Defendant has satisfied their meet and confer obligations.Request for Judicial NoticeDefendant requests judicial notice of the docket of People v. Grayley, LASC Case No. XSONA119659-01. Defendant’s request is granted pursuant to Evidence Code, §§ 451, 452, subd. (d).Legal StandardA party may move to strike matters from an opposing party’s pleading if it is irrelevant, false or improper. (See Code Civ. Proc. §§435, 436, subd. (a).) Motion to strike may also target all or any part of pleadings not filed or drawn in conformity with the applicable laws, rules or orders. (Code Civ. Proc., § 436, subd. (b).) A motion to strike is the proper procedure for testing the adequacy of a punitive damages allegation because punitive damages are not a cause of action. (Grieves v. Superior Ct. (1984) 157 Cal.App.3d 159, 164.)“Inasmuch as Civil Code section 3294 requires as a prerequisite to the recovery of punitive damages that the defendant “has been guilty of oppression, fraud, or malice,” the cases have uniformly recognized that proof of negligence, even gross negligence, or recklessness is insufficient to warrant an award of punitive damages.” (Dawes v. Superior Ct. (1980) 111 Cal. App. 3d 82, 87). To obtain punitive damages in an action for the breach of an obligation not arising from contract, a plaintiff must demonstrate, by clear and convincing evidence, that the defendant is guilty of oppression, fraud, or malice. (Civ. Code, § 3294, subd. (a).) The clear and convincing evidence standard “requires a finding of high probability . . . ‘so clear as to leave no substantial doubt’; sufficiently strong to command the unhesitating assent of every reasonable mind.” (Lackner v. North (2006) 135 Cal.App.4th 1188, 1211.)Malice is defined as “conduct which is intended by the defendant to cause injury to the plaintiff or despicable conduct which is carried on by the defendant with a willful and conscious disregard of the rights or safety of others.” (Civ. Code, § 3294, subd. (c)(1).) Oppression is defined as “despicable conduct that subjects a person to cruel and unjust hardship in conscious disregard of that person’s rights.” (Civ. Code, § 3294, subd. (c)(2).) The adjective "despicable" connotes conduct that is ". . . so vile, base, contemptible, miserable, wretched or loathsome that it would be looked down upon and despised by ordinary decent people.” (Lackner, supra, 135 Cal.App.4th at p. 1210.) “Not only must there by circumstances of oppression, fraud or malice, but facts must be alleged in the pleading to support such a claim.” (Grieves, supra, 157 Cal.App.3d at p. 166.)In Dawes, a claim for punitive damages withstood a motion to strike as the plaintiffs alleged the defendant drove “with knowledge that probable serious injury would result to persons in the area…” and “ran a stop sign, and was zigzagging in and out of traffic at a speed in excess of 65 miles per hour in a 35 mile per hour zone at the entrance to a popular recreation area on a Sunday afternoon when many pedestrians and bicyclists were in the immediate vicinity.” Dawes, supra, 111 Cal. App. 3d at p. 88. Those plaintiffs also alleged that “immediately after the accident [defendant] and his passenger falsely reported to the police that the passenger was driving rather than [defendant]. If these allegations were proved at trial, the factfinder could reasonably find that [defendant] acted with “malice”- with a conscious disregard of safety and the probable injury of others as a result of his conduct. (Id, at p. 88-89.)In Taylor v. Superior Ct. (1979) 24 Cal. 3d 890, a claim for punitive damages was supported by allegation that defendant “for a substantial period of time had been, an alcoholic ‘“well aware of the serious nature of his alcoholism”’ and of his ‘“tendency, habit, history, practice, proclivity, or inclination to drive a motor vehicle while under the influence of alcohol”’; and that the defendant was also “aware of the dangerousness of his driving while intoxicated.” (Id at p. 893.) “The complaint further alleged that [defendant] had previously caused a serious automobile accident while driving under the influence of alcohol; that he had been arrested and convicted for drunken driving on numerous prior occasions; that at the time of the accident herein, [defendant] had recently completed a period of probation which followed a drunk driving conviction; that one of his probation conditions was that he refrain from driving for at least six hours after consuming any alcoholic beverage; and that at the time of the accident in question he was presently facing an additional pending criminal drunk driving charge. Ibid.In contrast to the allegations in Dawes and Taylor, Plaintiffs’ complaint is currently devoid of facts to support a claim for punitive damages. Mere allegations that the defendant was driving under the influence of “drug or alcohol” and failed to keep a “reasonable distance from the front car” to avoid a “collision” is insufficient and does not rise to the level of malice or despicable conduct as required under Civil Code§ 3294. Further, Plaintiffs’ allegation that Defendant was arrested and charged with violating Vehicle Code 23153 and Penal Code 191.5 does not provide a separate basis for punitive damages.TENTATIVE RULINGDefendant’s Motion to Strike Paragraph 14(a)(2), Paragraph EX-1, Paragraph EX-2, and Paragraph EX-3 (“Punitive Damages”) is GRANTED with 20 days leave to amend.