  Case Number:  23BBCP00124    Hearing Date:   October 9, 2024    Dept:  A LOS
ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT
NORTH
CENTRAL DISTRICT - BURBANK
DEPARTMENT
A
 

TENTATIVE
RULING
OCTOBER 9,
2024

MOTION
TO VACATE SISTER STATE JUGMENT

Los Angeles Superior Court
Case # 23BBCP00124

 



MP:  


Joseph Patrick Kelly (Defendant)




RP:  


Jason Hawkins (Plaintiff) 



 
NOTICE:
 

The Court is not
requesting oral argument on this matter.  The Court is guided by
California Rules of Court, Rule 3.1308(a)(1) whereby notice of intent to appear
is requested.  Unless the Court directs argument in the Tentative Ruling,
no argument is requested and any party seeking argument should notify all other
parties and the court by 4:00 p.m. on the court day before the hearing of the
party’s intention to appear and argue.  The tentative ruling will become
the ruling of the court if no argument is received.   
 
Notice may be given
either by email at BurDeptA@LACourt.org or by telephone at (818) 260-8412.
 
ALLEGATIONS: 
 
This case concerns
the enforcement of a sister state judgment granted to Jason Hawkins (Plaintiff)
as against Joseph Patrick Kelly (Defendant). The sister state judgment is based
on an Oregon default judgment obtained in 2021 against Defendant. Defendant moves
to vacate the sister state judgment on grounds that the Oregon court rendered
the judgment in excess of its jurisdiction. 
  
ANALYSIS: 
 
I.                   
LEGAL
STANDARD 
 
In 1974, partially in
response to the constitutional mandate of full faith and credit, the California
Legislature enacted the Sister State Money Judgments Act. The Sister State Money
Judgments Act provides economical and expeditious registration procedures for
enforcing sister state money judgments in California. (Casey v. Hill (2022)
79 Cal.App.5th 937, 960.) A sister state judgment has the same force and effect
as a judgment originally issued by a California court and may be enforced or
satisfied in a like manner. (C.C.P. § 1710.35) 
 
A judgment debtor has
30 days to challenge entry of a sister state judgement with a motion to vacate.
(C.C.P. § 1710.40(b).) The motion to vacate can be based on any grounds which
would be a defense to the action in the state of California. (C.C.P. § 1710.40(a).)
 
A party moving to
vacate entry of judgment has the burden to show by a preponderance of the
evidence that they are entitled to relief. (Tsakos Shipping & Trading,
S.A. v. Juniper Garden Town Homes, Ltd. (1993) 12 Cal.App.4th 74, 88.)
 
II.                
MERITS 
 
Preliminary Issues 
 
The
Court first notes that both parties improperly refer to this motion as a “motion
to quash”. C.C.P. § 1710.40(a) does not authorize a motion to quash, only a
motion to vacate. This motion to vacate may be based on any grounds which would
be a defense to the action in the state of California. (C.C.P. § 1710.40(a).) Plaintiff’s
arguments in this motion may be similar to that of a motion to quash (i.e. his claim
that service was never effectuated) but that does not mean this motion is
governed by law applicable to a motion to quash. As will be discussed, C.C.P. §
1710.40 is a discreet code section with a long history of case law interpreting
its meaning and applicability. 
 
The
Court also addresses Plaintiff’s argument that this motion is untimely.
Plaintiff argues that because Defendant was served with notice of the sister
state judgment on August 24, 2023, his filing of this motion on October 2, 2023
was improper. The Court would ordinarily agree with Plaintiff, but a procedural
difficulty resulting from Plaintiff’s initial filing requires further
consideration of the matter. 
 
Upon
review, it appears Plaintiff initially neglected to file a proof of service for
the notice of sister state judgment. On September 24, 2024, Plaintiff,
presumably having realized this error, filed the proof of service for a sister
state judgment. Considering this oversight, the Court is disinclined to
consider Defendant’s motion untimely. In essence neither party adhered to the
appropriate procedure. Plaintiff’s failure to file the proof of service means
that the Court could have denied their application for failure to demonstrate
service pursuant to C.C.P. § 1710.3. On the other hand, now that the proof of
service has been filed, Defendant’s motion was clearly within the 30-day time
limit imposed by C.C.P. § 1710.40(a). 
 
Further,
Plaintiff’s argument regarding timeliness was absent from his initial briefing,
nor does the Court recall it being a point of contention at the October 20,
2023 hearing. In the Court’s view, the time to present concerns regarding
timeliness was when this motion came on for hearing almost a year ago.  
 
Given
the procedural missteps by both parties and given the Court’s predilection for fair
and efficient resolution, the Court will consider Defendant’s motion on the
merits. 
 
Discussion
 
Defendant’s
sole argument is that he was not properly served in the Oregon action. This argument
speaks to the merits of his Oregon action, which has already been determined by
the state courts of Oregon, the Oregon Court of Appeal, and the Oregon Supreme
Court. What Defendant essentially requests is that this Court declare the
Oregon courts to have been in error and to relitigate the matter from the
beginning. The Court declines to do so. 
 
“California
must, regardless of policy objections, recognize the judgment of another state
as res judicata, and this is so even though the action or proceeding which
resulted in the judgment could not have been brought under the law or policy of
California.” (Traci & Marx Co. v. Legal Options, Inc. (2005)
126 Cal.App.4th 155, quoting Silbrico Corp. v. Raanan (1985) 170
Cal.App.3d 202, 207.) 
 
In Washoe
Development Co. v. Guaranty Federal Bank, the plaintiff sought to enforce a
Nevada judgment and the defendant filed a motion to vacate. (Washoe
Development Co. v. Guaranty Federal Bank (1996) 47 Cal.App.4th 1518,
1521.) The defendant argued that the judgment “constituted the entry of a
personal judgment on a debt secured by real property contrary to the
antideficiency statutes of both California and Nevada.” (Id.) The Washoe
court refused the defendant’s argument that C.C.P. § 1710.40 authorizes a
California state court to reexamine the merits of the controversy and the
validity of the legal principles upon which the judgment was based. (Id.
at 1523.) In the Washoe court’s eyes, this interpretation of C.C.P. §
1710.10 et seq. did not coincide with the statutory scheme’s apparent
purpose of ensuring efficient transfer of sister state judgment. (Id.)
Nor did it fit with the Court’s understanding that the other purpose of C.C.P.
§ 1710.40 was to ensure the due process of law was observed for the party against
whom the judgment was to be enforced. (Id.) 
 
The Washoe
court did note that questions of jurisdiction are one of the few basis by
which a motion under C.C.P. § 1710.40 may proceed. (See Id. at 1521
[“[T]he law is well established that upon a claim that a foreign judgment is
not entitled to full faith and credit, the permissible scope of inquiry is
limited to a determination of whether the court of forum had fundamental
jurisdiction in the case.”].) At first glance this would seem supportive of
Defendant’s argument that this Court can determine if the Oregon court lacked
jurisdiction, but subsequent case law has made clear that such challenges are
improper where the question of jurisdiction was litigated in the original
court.   
 
In Bank
of America v. Jennet, the Third District Court of Appeal held that “a
judgment is entitled to full faith and credit…even as to questions of
jurisdiction…when the second court's inquiry discloses that those questions
have been fully and fairly litigated and finally decided in the court which
rendered the original judgment.” (Bank of America v. Jennett (1999)
77 Cal.App.4th 104, 114, quoting Thorley v. Superior Court (1978)
78 Cal.App.3d 900.) The Bank of America court further observed that the
judgment may be challenged only if the issue of jurisdiction was not litigated
in the foreign state (Id., citing Indiana Insurance Co. v. Pettigrew
(1981) 115 Cal.App.3d 862; see also Craig v. Superior Court (1975) 45
Cal.App.3d 675, 680 [ holding that where “the court of the first state has
expressly litigated the question of jurisdiction, its determination is res
judicata and is itself protected by the full faith and credit clause.”].) 
 
Here,
Defendant’s challenge to the Oregon judgment presents the same type of
challenge rejected by the Bank of America court. Defendant’s claim that
he was not properly served in Oregon is one which was fully litigated by the
Oregon courts. Not only was this claim fully considered by the lower courts of
Oregon, but its denial was also then affirmed by the Oregon Court of Appeal and
the Oregon Supreme Court. (See Supp. Booksa Decl. Exh. A.) The record is clear
that due process, which C.C.P. § 1710.40 in intended to protect, has been
observed here. Defendant had an extended period of time to convince the Oregon
courts that they were lacking in jurisdiction and ultimately failed to do so.
The law is clear that C.C.P. § 1710.40 does not entitle this Court to disturb
those findings. 
 
Accordingly,
Plaintiff’s motion to vacate is DENIED. 
 
--- 
 
RULING:
 
In the
event the parties submit on this tentative ruling, or a party requests a signed
order or the court in its discretion elects to sign a formal order, the
following form will be either electronically signed or signed in hard copy and
entered into the court’s records. 
 
ORDER 
 
Joseph Patrick Kelly’s
Motion to Vacate Sister State Judgment came on
regularly for hearing on October 9, 2024, with appearances/submissions as noted
in the minute order for said hearing, and the court, being fully advised in the
premises, did then and there rule as follows: 
 
THE MOTION TO VACATE SISTER STATE JUDGMENT IS
DENIED. 
 
THE STATUS CONFERENCE RE: OREGON SUPREME COURT
APPEAL IS VACATED. 
 
PLAINTIFF HAWKINS TO GIVE NOTICE. 
 
IT IS SO
ORDERED. 