 Case Number:  22STCV23928    Hearing Date:   October 11, 2023    Dept:  20 Tentative Ruling
Judge Kevin C. Brazile

Department 20

Hearing
Date:                         Wednesday, October
11, 2023
Case
Name:                             Dixon
v. Los Angeles Dodgers LLC, et al.
Case
No.:                                22STCV23928            
Motion:                                   (1) Motion to
Compel Responses to Form Interrogatories, Set One, and Request for Sanctions of
$860; and
                                                (2)
Motion to Compel Responses to Special Interrogatories, Set One, and Request for
Sanctions of $860.
Moving
Party:                         Plaintiff
Gregory Page Dixon 
Responding
Party:                   Defendant Los
Angeles Dodgers, LLC 
Notice:                                    OK

 

 
Ruling:                                    The
Motion to Compel Responses to Form Interrogatories, Set One, is GRANTED. Defendant
shall serve verified
responses, without objection, within 30 days of this order.
 
                                                The Motion to Compel
Responses to Special Interrogatories, Set One, is GRANTED. Defendant
shall serve verified
responses, without objection, within 30 days of this order.
 
                                                The Court GRANTS
Plaintiff’s requests for sanctions in the combined and reduced amount of $600,
payable within 30 days of this order.
 
Plaintiff
to give notice.
 
If counsel do not
submit on the tentative, they are strongly encouraged to appear by
LACourtConnect rather than in person due to the COVID-19 pandemic.

 

 
BACKGROUND
            On
July 25, 2022, Plaintiff Gregory Page Dixon (“Plaintiff”) filed the operative
complaint[1] against Defendant Los
Angeles Dodgers, LLC (“Defendant”) alleging the following causes of action: (1)
negligence; (2) premises liability; (3) assault; (4) battery; (5) false
imprisonment; (6) violation of “federal civil rights,” and (7) negligent
hiring, supervision, and retention. Plaintiff alleges he was a Dodgers game
when he unlawfully assaulted and battered by off-duty security employees and
that officers of the Los Angeles Police who had observed the altercation did
not to assist Plaintiff to prevent any foreseeable harm. 
            On
September 27, 2022, Plaintiff propounded, inter alia, Form
Interrogatories, Set One (“FROGs”) and Special Interrogatories, Set One
(“SROGs”), on Defendant. However, Defendant failed to respond at all to these
discovery requests.
            On
August 17, 2023, Plaintiff filed the instant motions to compel responses
regarding FROGs and SROGs.
            On
September 28, 2023, Defendant filed its oppositions to the instant motions.
 
DISCUSSION
Applicable
Law
            Pursuant
to Code of Civil Procedure §
2030.290(b), “[i]f a party to whom interrogatories are directed fails to serve
a timely response,” then “[t]he party propounding the interrogatories may move
for an order compelling response to the interrogatories.”
            A party who fails
to respond “waives any objection to the interrogatories,
including one based on privilege or on the protection for work product.” (Code
Civ. Proc., § 2030.290(a).)
            The court “shall”
impose monetary sanctions “against any party,
person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel
response to a demand for inspection, copying, testing, or sampling, unless it
finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification
or that other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.” (Code
Civ. Proc., § 2030.290(c).)
 
Application
to Facts
            Plaintiff
served its first
set of FROGs
and SROGs on Defendant on September 27, 2022 by email. (diDonato Decls., ¶ 2
and Exhs. 1.) Plaintiff asserts that Defendant failed to respond at any time
within the statutory deadline or beyond it. (Id., ¶ 3.) 
In opposition, Defendant
contends that the parties had agreed that discovery in this action was not an
immediate priority when other related cases had a pending trial date.
(Opposition re: FROGs at pg. 2; Opposition re: SROGs at pg. 2.)  Defendant further argues that the instant
motion is not necessary because Defendant is preparing Code-compliant responses
to the outstanding discovery requests. (Ibid.) However, Defendant has
failed to submit any conversations between the parties to suggest that they
stipulated to suspend Defendant’s obligation to respond to Plaintiff’s
discovery demands in tis action. It is immaterial that Defendant is presently
prepared responses to these discovery demands. Thus, Defendant has waived all
objections to the FROGs and SROGs, including attorney-client privilege and
attorney work product. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.300(a).)
            Accordingly, the
motions to compel responses to the FROGs and SROGs are GRANTED. Defendant shall
serve verified responses, without objection, within 30 days of this order.   
 
Sanctions
            Plaintiff
requests sanctions in the amount of $860 against Defendant corresponding with
each motion, totaling $1720. In addition to the $60 filing fee for each motion,
Plaintiff’s counsel attests that his hourly rate is $400 and that the
preparation of the motions and the resulting court appearances would take four
hours in total. (See diDanto Decls. ¶ 4.) 
As indicated above, Defendant failed to
respond to the interrogatories at all. (Code of Civil Procedure § 2023.010(d)
[“[f]ailing to respond to or to submit to an authorized method of discovery” as
a misuse of the discovery process].) Moreover, because Defendant has failed to
provide proof of the parties’ informal agreement regarding how discovery would
priorities and has not provided any responses, Defendant has not demonstrated
that “[it] acted with substantial justification or that other
circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.290(c).)
Nevertheless, the requested amounts are excessive under the
circumstances. First, in comparing the motions to compel Plaintiff’s FROGs and
SROGs, it is clear that the motions are nearly identical, cookie-cutter in
nature, and concern non-complicated discovery issues. Thus, it is unlikely that
Plaintiff’s counsel expended a significant time for these motions. Second,
Plaintiff’s appearance will likely be remote, and both motions would be heard
in conjunction with one another. 
            Accordingly, in
connection with both motions, the Court grants Plaintiff’s requests for
monetary sanctions in the combined and reduced amount of $600,
consisting of 1.2 hours at a rate of $400 per hour and $120 in filing fees. 
 
CONCLUSION
The Motion to Compel
Responses to Form Interrogatories, Set One, is GRANTED. Defendant shall serve verified
responses, without objection, within 30 days of this order.
The Motion to Compel Responses to Special
Interrogatories, Set One, is GRANTED. Defendant shall serve verified
responses, without objection, within 30 days of this order.
The Court GRANTS Plaintiff’s
requests for sanctions against Defendant in the combined and reduced amount of
$600, payable within 30 days of this order.
            If
counsel do not submit on the tentative, they are strongly encouraged to appear
by LACourtConnect rather than in person due to the COVID-19 pandemic.
 


