  Case Number:  22STCV23591    Hearing Date:   October 11, 2023    Dept:  20 Tentative Ruling
Judge Kevin C. Brazile

Department 20

Hearing
Date:                         Wednesday, October
11, 2023
Case
Name:                             Guadalupe
Gualotuna v. Moores Daycare Inc.
Case
No.:                                22STCV23591                        
Motion:                                   Motion to Be
Relieved as Counsel
Moving
Party:                         Alfred Landegger
and Alysha Zapata (jointly, “Movants”)
Responding
Party:                   None
Notice:                                    OK

 

 
Ruling:                                    The Motion
to Be Relieved as Counsel is GRANTED.
 
Movants
to give notice.
 
If counsel do not
submit on the tentative, they are strongly encouraged to appear by
LACourtConnect rather than in person due to the COVID-19 pandemic.

 

 
DISCUSSION
Movants seek to be
relieved as counsel for Defendant Moore’s Daycare Preparatory School Inc.
(erroneously sued as “Moores Daycare Inc.”) (“Defendant”).
Movants state that they are no longer able
to represent Defendant because there has been a breakdown in communication that
has resulted in the deterioration of the attorney-client relationship.  (See Form MC-052, ¶2.)
            Under
California Rules of Professional Conduct, 1.16(b)(4), “a lawyer may withdraw from
representing a client if: . . . the client . . . renders it unreasonably
difficult for the lawyer to carry out the representation effectively[.]”
In addition, Movants have complied with
the mandatory requirements of California Rules of Court, rule 3.1362.  They submitted the required notice on Form
MC-051, declaration on Form MC-052, and proposed order on Form MC-053, and have
shown service “on the client and on all other persons who have appeared in the
case.”  
The fact that the corporate defendant will
be without representation is not a basis for denial of the motion to be
relieved as counsel.  As explained by the
Court of Appeal in Thomas
G. Ferruzzo, Inc. v. Superior Court (1980) 104 Cal.App.3d 501, 504:
 
There are two concepts, not one, which are here involved.  The first is the principle supported by [Merco
Constr. Engineers, Inc. v. Municipal Court (1978) 21 Cal.3d 724] that a
corporation may not proceed in propria persona. 
The second is that an attorney, given proper grounds, may be permitted
by the court to withdraw as attorney of record. 
These two concepts are not inconsistent in the case of a corporate
client.  An attorney may be allowed to
withdraw without offending the rule against corporate self-representation.  [¶] The effect of withdrawal is to leave the
corporation without representation and without the ability to practice
self-representation.  For the
uncooperative corporate client who has not been willing to bring in new
counsel, granting of the withdrawal motion will put extreme pressure on it to
obtain new counsel of record for should it fail to do so it risks forfeiture of
its rights through non-representation.
 
For these reasons, the motion to be relieved as counsel is
GRANTED.
 
CONCLUSION
            The
Motion to Be Relieved as Counsel is GRANTED.
            Movants
to give notice.
            If
counsel do not submit on the tentative, they are strongly encouraged to appear
by LACourtConnect rather than in person due to the COVID-19 pandemic.
 