 Case Number:  23STCV29711    Hearing Date:   May 14, 2024    Dept:  71 Superior
Court of California
County
of Los Angeles
 
DEPARTMENT 71
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



JAYDON DOUGLAS PAULL,  
  
        
  vs.
 
HASTI RAHSEPAR, et al.


 Case
  No.:  23STCV29711
 
 
 
 Hearing Date:  May 14, 2024



 
Defendants Hasti Rahsepar’s and HDR Law Group’s unopposed
motion, and Plaintiff Jaydon Douglass Paull’s joinder to Defendants’ motion,
for a determination that the settlement between Plaintiff Jaydon Douglass Paull
and Defendants Hasti Rahsepar and HDR Law Group was made in good faith is
granted.  
 
Defendants
Hasti Rahsepar and HDR Law Group [erroneously sued as HDR Law Group, Inc.]
(collectively, “HDR Parties”) (collectively, “Defendants”) move for a
determination that the settlement between Plaintiff Jaydon Douglass Paull (“Paull”)
(“Plaintiff”) and HDR Parties was entered into in good faith and that any
present or future claims or cross-complaints by any other alleged joint
tortfeasor and/or party for equitable indemnification, comparative contribution
and total and/or comparative indemnity against the HDR Parties are barred.  (Notice Motion, pg. 2; C.C.P. §§877, 877.6.)  HDR Parties move on the grounds that the HDR
Parties have entered into a settlement with Plaintiff in order to spare further
litigation, cost and expense.  (Notice
Motion, pg. 2.)
Plaintiff
joins HDR Parties’ motion on the grounds HDR Parties and Plaintiff
(collectively, “Settling Parties”) entered into a good faith settlement of all
of Plaintiff’s claims against HDR Parties in this action, and that the Settling
Parties’ decision to settle now is both reasonable and prudent, given the
certainty that the Settling Parties would incur substantial additional costs
and attorneys’ fees if Plaintiff’s claims against the HDR Parties were to
proceed to summary judgment and/or trial, and the uncertainty as to whether
Plaintiff would ultimately prevail on his claims against the HDR Parties or a
significant, potential multimillion dollar judgment would issue against the HDR
Parties.  (Notice Joinder, pg. 1; C.C.P.
§§877, 877.6; Tech-Bilt, Inc. v. Woodward-Clyde & Associates (1985)
38 Cal.3d 488.)
 
Background
On
December 5, 2023, Plaintiff filed his Complaint against HDR Parties and Non-Moving
Defendants Hrayr Brian Der Vartanian (“Der Vartanian”) and his attorney Raymond
Hovsepian (“Hovsepian”)[1] alleging eighteen causes
of action: (1) malicious prosecution [against Der Vartanian and HDR Parties];
(2) abuse of process [against all Defendants]; (3) intentional
infliction of emotional distress [against Der Vartanian]; (4) breach of
contract [against Der Vartanian]; (5) breach of the implied covenant of
good faith and fair dealing [against Der Vartanian]; (6) breach of the
implied warranty of habitability [against Der Vartanian]; (7) breach of
the implied covenant of quiet enjoyment [against Der Vartanian]; (8)
tenant harassment and retaliation [against Der Vartanian]; (9)
negligence [against Der Vartanian]; (10) fraud in the inducement [against
Der Vartanian]; (11) concealment [against Der Vartanian]; (12) false
promise [against Der Vartanian]; (13) intentional misrepresentation
(fraud) [against Der Vartanian]; (14) negligent misrepresentation [against
Der Vartanian]; (15) intrusion into private affairs [against Der
Vartanian]; (16) violation of Los Angeles County Tenant Protections
Resolution [against Der Vartanian]; (17) Violation of Glendale Rental
Rights Program [against Der Vartanian]; and (18) Unfair Competition,
Business & Professions Code §17200 [against Der Vartanian].   
On
February 19, 2024, Plaintiff and the HDR Parties participated in a private
mediation (“Mediation”) with mediator Craig Breitman, Esq. (“Mediator”) of
Breitman Resolutions, Inc. prior to the HDR Parties entering an appearance in
the Action.  The parties were unable to
reach an agreement on the date of the Mediation but continued to negotiate with
the assistance of the Mediator and agreed upon the Proposed Settlement on
February 28, 2024.  (Decl. of Hoffman
¶2.)  As part of the Proposed Settlement,
Plaintiff agreed to dismiss the Action with prejudice as to the HDR Parties in
return for a single settlement payment of $75,000 conditioned upon the issuance
of a final non-appealable order that such settlement is in good faith under
C.C.P. §§877 and 877.6 and Tech-Bilt, Inc. v. Woodward-Clyde &
Associates (1985) 38 Cal.3d 488. 
(Decl. of Hoffman ¶4, Exh. A at ¶3.)
HDR
Parties filed the instant motion on April 12, 2024.  Plaintiff filed his joinder to HDR Parties’
motion on April 22, 2024.  HDR Parties
filed a notice of non-opposition on May 7, 2024.
 
Legal
Standard
C.C.P.
§§877(a)-(b) provides:
Where a release,
dismissal with or without prejudice, or a covenant not to sue or not to enforce
judgment is given in good faith before verdict or judgment to one or more of a
number of tortfeasors claimed to be liable for the same tort, or to one or more
other co-obligors mutually subject to contribution rights, it shall have the
following effect:
 
(a)   It
shall not discharge any other such party from liability unless its terms so
provide, but it shall reduce the claims against the others in the amount
stipulated by the release, the dismissal or the covenant, or in the amount of
the consideration paid for it, whichever is the greater.
 
(b)   It
shall discharge the party to whom it is given from all liability for any
contribution to any other parties.
 
(C.C.P. §§877(a)-(b).)
“The
issue of the good faith of a settlement may be determined by the court on the
basis of affidavits served with the notice of hearing, and any counter
affidavits filed in response, or the court may, in its discretion, receive
other evidence at the hearing.”  (C.C.P.
§877.6(b).)
A determination
by the court that the settlement was made in good faith shall bar any other
joint tortfeasor or co-obligor from any further claims against the settling
tortfeasor or co-obligor for equitable comparative contribution, or partial or
comparative indemnity, based on comparative negligence or comparative fault.”  (C.C.P. §877.6(c).)
There is no
precise yardstick for measuring “good faith” of a settlement with one of
several tortfeasors. But it must harmonize the public policy favoring
settlements with the competing public policy favoring equitable sharing of
costs among tortfeasors. To accomplish this, the settlement must be within the
“reasonable range” (within the “ballpark”) of the settling tortfeasor’s share
of liability for the plaintiff’s injuries—taking into consideration the facts
and circumstances of the particular case.  (Tech-Bilt, Inc. v. Woodward-Clyde &
Associates (1985) 38 Cal. 3d 488, 499.)
Whether the
settlement was within the “good faith ballpark” is to be evaluated on the basis
of information available at the time of settlement, including: (1) a rough
approximation of plaintiffs’ total recovery and the settlor’s proportionate
liability; (2) the amount paid in settlement; (3) a recognition that a settlor
should pay less in settlement than if found liable after a trial; (4) the
allocation of the settlement proceeds among plaintiffs; (5) the settlor’s
financial condition and insurance policy limits, if any; and (6) evidence of
any collusion, fraud, or tortious conduct between the settlor and the
plaintiffs aimed at making the non-settling parties pay more than their fair
share.  (Id.)
“The party
asserting lack of good faith (in a settlement) shall have the burden of proof
on that issue.”  (C.C.P. §877.6(d).)
 
Discussion
The
Court determines the settlement between Plaintiff and HDR Parties was made in
good faith.  HDR Parties and Plaintiff
sufficiently demonstrated each of the relevant Tech-Bilt factors are met
to determine the settlement is made in good faith.  
First,
HDR Parties agreed to settle with Plaintiff for a monetary amount of $75,000 as
a compromise between HDR Parties’ position it would have achieved a defense
verdict and Plaintiff’s position that there was active fraud and severe abuses
of the legal system that would lead to seven figures of damages in consequential
and punitive damages.  (Decl. of Bowen ¶13.)  
Second,
Plaintiff believes the settlement reflects a fair approximation of HDR Parties’
liability relative to the other Defendants in the matter in light of the fact
HDR Parties are alleged to have only filed some, not all, of the actions at
issue in this matter and Non-moving Defendant Der Vartanian is named in substantially
more claims than HDR Parties.  (See
Joinder Memo, pg. 4.)
Third,
the amount of the settlement reflects a compromise between what Plaintiff
believes he would win at trial and what HDR Parties believe they are owed.  (See Joinder Memo, pg. 4.)
Fourth,
Plaintiff believes the HDR Parties’ liability at trial could easily reach seven
figures, and therefore, this settlement is fairly less than what HDR Parties
would need to pay at trial.  (See
Joinder Memo, pg. 4.)
Fifth,
Plaintiff attests to the fairness of the financial conditions and insurance
policy limits of HDR Parties.  (See
Joinder Memo, pg. 5; Motion, pg. 13.)
Finally,
there is no evidence of collusion, fraud, or tortious conduct aimed to injure
the interests of non-settling Defendants. 
(See Joinder Memo, pg. 5; Motion, pgs. 13, 18.)
Accordingly,
HDR Parties’ and Plaintiff’s motions to confirm their settlement was made in
good faith is granted.
 
Conclusion
Settling
Parties’ motions for a determination that the settlement between Plaintiff and HDR
Parties was entered into in good faith is granted.  
HDR
Parties to give notice.
 
Dated:  May
_____, 2024
                                                                             





  