 Case Number:  22STCV31518    Hearing Date:   September 6, 2024    Dept:  28 Having  considered the moving, opposition, and reply papers, the Court rules as  follows.  PROCEDURAL HISTORY  On  September 27, 2022, Plaintiff Etta Faye Williams Clark (“Plaintiff”) filed this  action against Defendants Angelus Funeral Home (“Defendant”) and Does 1-50 for  negligence and premises liability.  On  May 10, 2023, the clerk entered Defendant’s default.  On  March 11, 2024, the Court dismissed the Doe defendants with prejudice at  Plaintiff’s request.  On  April 17, 2024, the Court granted Plaintiff’s application for default judgment  and entered judgment for Plaintiff against Defendant for $69,764,82.  On  April 16, 2024, Defendant filed a motion to set aside the default judgment. The  motion was set for hearing on May 16, 2024. On May 3, 2024, Plaintiff filed an  opposition. On May 9, 2024, Defendant filed a reply. The Court continued the  hearing to July 18, 2024.  On July 18, 2024, the Court denied the motion because (1) the  request for relief under Code of Civil Procedure section 473, subdivision (b),  was untimely and (2) the request under Code of Civil Procedure section 473.5  was based on inadmissible hearsay.  On  August 1, 2024, Defendant filed another motion to set aside the default  judgment.  The motion was set for hearing  on September 6, 2024. On August 23, 2024, Plaintiff filed an opposition. On  August 29, 2024, Defendant filed a reply.  PARTIES’ REQUESTS  Defendant  asks the Court to set aside the default judgment.  Plaintiff  asks the Court to deny the motion.  LEGAL STANDARD   Code  of Civil Procedure section 473.5 provides:  “(a) When service of a summons has not resulted in  actual notice to a party in time to defend the action and a default or default  judgment has been entered against him or her in the action, he or she may serve  and file a notice of motion to set aside the default or default judgment and  for leave to defend the action. The notice of motion shall be served and filed  within a reasonable time, but in no event exceeding the earlier of: (i) two  years after entry of a default judgment against him or her; or (ii) 180 days  after service on him or her of a written notice that the default or default  judgment has been entered.  “(b) A notice of motion to set aside a default or  default judgment and for leave to defend the action shall designate as the time  for making the motion a date prescribed by subdivision (b) of Section 1005, and  it shall be accompanied by an affidavit showing under oath that the party’s  lack of actual notice in time to defend the action was not caused by his or her  avoidance of service or inexcusable neglect. The party shall serve and file  with the notice a copy of the answer, motion, or other pleading proposed to be  filed in the action.  “(c) Upon a finding by the court that the motion was  made within the period permitted by subdivision (a) and that his or her lack of  actual notice in time to defend the action was not caused by his or her  avoidance of service or inexcusable neglect, it may set aside the default or  default judgment on whatever terms as may be just and allow the party to defend  the action.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 473.5.)            “Filing a proof of service that  complies with statutory standards [citation] creates a rebuttable presumption  that service was proper.”  (L. Edmon  & C. Karnow, Cal. Practice Guide: Civil Procedure Before Trial (Rutter  2024) ¶ 4:362, p. 4-65 (Cal. Practice Guide).)  “A  declaration of personal service by a registered process server [citation]  establishes a presumption that the facts stated in the declaration are true.”  (Cal. Practice Guide, supra, ¶ 4:367,  p. 4-65; see Evid. Code, § 647 [“The return of a process server registered  pursuant to Chapter 16 (commencing with Section 22350) of Division 8 of the  Business and Professions Code upon process or notice establishes a presumption,  affecting the burden of producing evidence, of the facts stated in the  return”].)  “However,  the presumption may be overcome with evidence from the party allegedly served  that service was not legally effective.”   (Ibid.; see Farr v. County of Nevada (2010) 187  Cal.App.4th 669, 680–681 [“if a presumption affecting the burden of producing  evidence ‘applies to a proposition, the proponent of the proposition need not  prove it unless the opposing party produces evidence undermining it, in which  case the presumption is disregarded and the trier of fact must decide the  question without regard to it’ ”].)  DISCUSSION  A.   Background  On  May 5, 2023, Plaintiff filed a proof of service showing service of the summons,  complaint, statement of damages, and other documents on Todd Davenport (“Davenport”),  Defendant’s agent for service, on March 17, 2023.  In the proof of service, the registered  California process server stated under penalty of perjury that he personally  served these documents on Davenport at 3875  Crenshaw Blvd., Los Angeles, CA 90008.    On July  18, 2024, the Court denied Defendant’s first motion to set aside the default  judgment under Code of Civil Procedure section 473.5 because Defendant provided  only inadmissible hearsay to support its assertion that Defendant’s agent for  service of process, Todd Davenport, was not in the office on the date of service  and was not personally served.  On  August 1, 2024, Defendant filed a new motion to set aside the default judgment  which included a July 19, 2024, declaration from Todd Davenport stating that he  “was not physically in the office on the day [he] was allegedly personally  served with a copy of the Summons and Complaint, and [he] was never personally  served with a copy of the Summons and Complaint.”  Davenport also stated that he “lacked notice  of this action in time to defend against this default, as [his] first notice of  the case was receipt of the Default Judgment on March 28, 2024.”  B.   Reconsideration  Code  of Civil Procedure section 1008 provides in part:  “(a) When an application for an order has been made to  a judge, or to a court, and refused in whole or in part, or granted, or granted  conditionally, or on terms, any party affected by the order may, within 10 days  after service upon the party of written notice of entry of the order and based  upon new or different facts, circumstances, or law, make application to the  same judge or court that made the order, to reconsider the matter and modify,  amend, or revoke the prior order. The party making the application shall state  by affidavit what application was made before, when and to what judge, what  order or decisions were made, and what new or different facts, circumstances,  or law are claimed to be shown.  “(b) A party who originally made an application for an  order which was refused in whole or part, or granted conditionally or on terms,  may make a subsequent application for the same order upon new or different  facts, circumstances, or law, in which case it shall be shown by affidavit what  application was made before, when and to what judge, what order or decisions  were made, and what new or different facts, circumstances, or law are claimed  to be shown. For a failure to comply with this subdivision, any order made on a  subsequent application may be revoked or set aside on ex parte motion.  * * *  “(e) This section specifies the court’s jurisdiction  with regard to applications for reconsideration of its orders and renewals of  previous motions, and applies to all applications to reconsider any order of a  judge or court, or for the renewal of a previous motion, whether the order  deciding the previous matter or motion is interim or final. No application to  reconsider any order or for the renewal of a previous motion may be considered  by any judge or court unless made according to this section. . . .”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 1008,  subds. (a), (b), (e).)            “The burden under [Code of Civil Procedure section 1008] ‘is  comparable to that of a party seeking a new trial on the ground of newly  discovered evidence: the information must be such that the moving party could  not, with reasonable diligence, have discovered or produced it at the trial.’ ”  (Cal. Practice Guide, supra, ¶ 9:328,  p. 9(l)-161.)  Plaintiff  argues that Defendant’s motion is an improper request to reconsider the Court’s  July 18, 2024 ruling.  Defendant does not respond to this argument aside from contending it is presenting new "information" to the Court.  Defendant does not claim (and could not claim) that it has presented evidence that it could not, with reasonable diligence, have discovered or produced to support its previous motion. Defendant’s  current motion seeks the same relief as Defendant’s previous motion to set  aside the default judgment and raises the same issue: whether Defendant’s agent  for service of process was personally served.   The only difference between the two motions is that, in the first  motion, Defendant supported its argument with inadmissible hearsay, while in  the current motion Defendant has provided a declaration from Todd Davenport, the  agent for service of process.  The  name of the motion is not controlling.  The  requirements of Code of Civil Procedure section 1008 “apply to any motion that  asks the judge to decide the same matter previously ruled on.”  (Cal. Practice Guide, supra, ¶ 9:324.1, p. 9(l)-156.)  The  Court denies the motion because it does not comply with the requirements of  Code of Civil Procedure section 1008 despite seeking reconsideration of the  Court’s July 18, 2024 order.  CONCLUSION  The  Court DENIES Defendant Angelus Funeral Home’s motion to set aside the default  judgment.  Moving  party is ordered to give notice of this ruling.  Moving  party is ordered to file the proof of service of this ruling with the Court  within five days.