  Case Number:  22STCP03798    Hearing Date:   January 31, 2024    Dept:  86 VOONG v. THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES  
Case Number: 22STCP03798
Hearing Date: January 31, 2024 
 
 
[Tentative]       ORDER
DENYING PETITION FOR WRIT OF ADMINISTRATIVE MANDATE 
 
 
Petitioners, Phi Hong Voong and Ngan Hong Voong dba
Eddie’s Liquor & Jr. Market (Eddie’s), request a writ of administrative
mandate directing Respondents, the County of Los Angeles (County) and its Department
of Regional Planning (Planning Department), to set aside the final
administrative decision revoking Petitioners’ deemed-approved status to sell
alcohol for off site consumption at Eddie’s. 

 
Petitioners’ Request for Judicial Notice (RJN) of
Exhibits A and B is granted.
 
BACKGROUND
 
Eddie’s Liquor and Jr. Market 
 
Eddie’s is a mini-market located in the
unincorporated West Athens-Westmont area of the County, on the corner of South Western
Avenue and West 108th Street. (AR 67.) Eddie’s street address is
10803 and 10805 S. Western Avenue. (AR 410, 427, 429, 442, 940.)[1]  
 
A neighborhood coin laundry business is located
immediately to the south of Eddie’s. (AR 71.) 
Retail and other commercial businesses are located on the corners across
108th Street and Western Avenue. (AR 71.) The area surrounding Eddie’s
is mostly residential and also includes a charter high school and two churches.
(AR 67, 71, 411-412.)  
 
California’s Department of Alcoholic Beverage
Control (ABC) issued a license to Eddie’s to sell alcohol in 1987. (AR 262.)
Petitioners’ license has never been subject to disciplinary action by the ABC. (AR
51-58 and 416.)  
 
At the administrative hearing, Petitioners’
attorney described the history of Eddie’s, and the ongoing services it provides:

 
[Petitioner] Voong came to the country in
1982, worked hard and able to acquire the store and the property in 1987, 89.
He has gone through a number of struggles through civil unrest in 92, where he
had to rebuild, but he continued to operate and has the support of the community.
. . . He has ties to it that community. He is just not a tenant and been there
over 30 years . . . . [E]veryone tries to characterize this as a liquor store.
80 percent of the shelf space isn’t alcohol related product. It carries wide
variety of food snacks, alcoholic beverage, dry goods, household products . . .
. (AR 1029.)
 
The SAAFE Ordinance
and Revocation Process 
 
Because Eddie’s
began selling alcohol in or around 1987, it does not have a conditional use
permit (CUP) from the County to sell alcohol. (AR 262.) While the County
enacted the requirement for a CUP to sell alcohol in West Athens-Westmont in
1990, the County’s ordinance did not require Eddie’s to obtain a CUP. (AR 7-14,
262.)
 
In 2017, the County’s
Board of Supervisors (Board) adopted the Safe Access to Alcohol and Food
Establishments Ordinance (SAAFE Ordinance). (AR 263.) The SAAFE Ordinance
grants “deemed-approved” status to “any legally-established use that sells
alcoholic beverages without a [CUP] . . . and which did not require a [CUP] to
sell alcoholic beverages, pursuant to this Title 22, at the time it was
established.” (RJN Exh. A; Los Angeles County Code (LACC), 
§ 22.140.030.H.1.)  
 
The SAAFE Ordinance
also establishes performance standards for deemed-approved businesses. As
relevant here, the performance standards include: 
 
1. The use shall be operated and
maintained in accordance with this Title 22 and all other applicable federal,
State, or local codes, laws, rules, regulations, and statutes, including those
of the California Department of Alcoholic Beverage Control. 
 
2. The premises shall be maintained free
of garbage, trash, debris, or junk and salvage in exterior areas, except in
designated trash collection containers and enclosures. 
              .
. . .
7. The operator shall not cause, allow,
or permit nuisance and other unlawful activities on the premises including, but
not limited to: 
 
a. Loitering; 
b. Drinking alcoholic beverages and/or
possessing open alcoholic beverage containers in exterior portions of the
premises, other than in a designated patio or other area approved for on-site
consumption by the Department and/or California Department of Alcoholic
Beverage Control; 
c. Littering; 
d. Creating excessive noise that does not
comply with Title 12 (Environmental Protection) of the County Code to the
satisfaction of the Department of Public Health, especially in the late night
or early morning hours; 
e. Disturbing the peace; 
f. Engaging in illegal tobacco sales,
drug activity, gambling or prostitution; 
g. Trafficking in stolen goods; 
h. Harassing of passerby or business
patrons; 
i. Panhandling; 
j. Engaging in acts of vandalism; and 
k. Otherwise engaging in conduct that is
unlawful and/or constitutes a nuisance. 
 
8. The operator shall take all reasonable
steps to ensure that the conditions and activities on the lot or parcel of land
on which the use is located do not constitute a public nuisance. For purposes
of this performance standard, reasonable steps include, but are not limited to,
the following: 
 
a. Requesting that those persons engaging
in conduct that constitutes a nuisance to cease such conduct, unless the
operator has reasonable cause to believe such request may jeopardize his or her
personal safety; 
b. Calling the Sheriff’s Department if
the operator's attempts to abate the nuisance conduct have been unsuccessful,
or if the operator has reasonable cause to believe such attempts may jeopardize
his or her personal safety; and
c. Timely preventive actions to address
conditions that facilitate loitering and other nuisance activity on the
premises, such as removing furniture from areas adjacent to the entry of the
establishment, prohibiting persons from using any portion of the premises for
the installation and/or operation of a temporary business or other use, and/or
other preventive actions.
 
(RJN Exh. A; LACC, § 22.140.030.I.)
 
The SAAFE Ordinance
provides the County’s Regional Planning Commission (Commission) may revoke the
deemed-approved status of an establishment due to non-compliance with the ordinance’s
performance standards and require a CUP for any subsequent sale of alcohol on
the premises. (LACC, § 22.140.030.J.) The Commission may take such action after
a public hearing.
 
The County’s
Investigation of Eddie’s Compliance with Performance Standards 
 
Starting around May
2020, the County’s Sheriff’s Department and the Planning Department
investigated Eddie’s compliance with the SAAFE Ordinance’s performance
standards. (AR 410-423.) The County’s inspections revealed trash on the premises,
failure to maintain required landscaping, and an unapproved freestanding pole
sign. (AR 416.)  
 
The Sheriff’s
Department also provided data evidencing 106 calls for service dispatched to
the location between October 19, 2017 (the effective date of the SAAFE Ordinance)
and July 31, 2020 with 22 crime incidents documented during that period. (AR
414-415.) According to a staff report prepared by the Planning Department, the
Sheriff’s Department data recorded 43 incidents of loitering during that
period; 29 incidents of drinking alcoholic beverages and/or possessing open
alcoholic beverage containers; 61 incidents of disturbing the peace; 6
incidents of harassing of passerby or business patrons; and other criminal
activity. (AR 418-419.)  
 
“In the review of
the calls for service, the Sheriff’s Department determined that some of the 106
calls for service received between October 19, 2017 and July 31, 2020 were
likely from employees of [Eddie’s]. However, due to a variety of factors,
including anonymous callers or unknown employees’ names, the Sheriff’s
Department cannot definitively determine the exact number of calls originated
by employees of [Eddie’s].” (AR 421 [staff report].)  
 
“During the October
28, 2020 inspection, Staff interviewed the business owner, Mr. Phi Hong Voong,
in person at [Eddie’s]. Staff asked him if there were any ongoing nuisance
issues at the location. He stated while he sometimes had issues with loitering
from neighbors, that such nuisances have decreased since the COVID-19 pandemic.
However, staff observed the presence of loiterers on the premises seated on
several furniture pieces on the western portion of the property, but Mr. Voong
did not address the nuisance.” (AR 421 [staff report].)
 
The County Revokes
Eddie’s Deemed-Approved Status 
 
On November 25,
2020, the Planning Department sent a notice to Petitioners alleging violations
of the SAAFE Ordinance’s performance standards. (AR 77-79.)
 
On December 8,
2020, the County initiated a public hearing and scheduled it for February 17,
2021. (AR 262-263.) Toward that end, the County mailed notice of the public
hearing to Petitioners and neighbors of Eddie’s, posted it in the newspaper,
online, and in the window of Eddie’s. (AR 211, AR 265-272, AR 277-405.)  
 
The County received
public comments in advance of the hearing, including hundreds of signatures on
a petition supporting maintenance of Petitioners’ deemed-approved status. The County
also received public comments in support of revoking Petitioners’
deemed-approved status. (AR 516-752.)
 
At the public hearing,
Planning Department staff and a lieutenant with the Sheriff’s Department provided
a presentation in support of revoking Petitioners’ deemed-approved status. (AR
1022-1028.) Petitioners’ counsel gave a presentation and rebuttal after public
comment. (AR 754, 1028-1036, 1049.) At the close of the hearing, the Commission
voted unanimously to revoke Petitioners’ deemed-approved status. (AR 1050-1051.)
 
On February 18,
2021, the Commission provided notice to Petitioners it had revoked Eddie’s
deemed-approved status with eight pages of findings. (AR 788-815.) The parties
agree the Commission’s decision is at issue in this proceeding. (See Opening
Brief 2:1-20; RJN Exh. B; Opposition 9:25-28.)[2]  
 
STANDARD OF REVIEW 
 
Petitioners seek relief from the court pursuant
to Code of Civil Procedure section 1094.5.
 
Under Code of Civil Procedure section
1094.5, subdivision (b), the relevant issues are whether the respondent has
proceeded without jurisdiction, whether there was a fair trial, and whether
there was a prejudicial abuse of discretion. An abuse of discretion is
established if the agency has not proceeded in the manner required by law, the
decision is not supported by the findings, or the findings are not supported by
the evidence. (Code Civ. Proc., § 1094.5, subd. (b).)
 
Petitioner contends judicial review of
the Commission’s factual findings is pursuant to the independent judgment test.
Petitioners argue independent judgment is required because “Petitioners have
operated for some 34 years under vested alcohol sale authority.” (Opening Brief
4:17.)  
 
“The courts must decide on a case-by-case
basis whether an administrative decision or class of decisions
substantially affects fundamental vested rights and thus requires independent judgment review.” (Bixby v.
Pierno (1971) 4 Cal.3d 130, 144.)  “ ‘In determining whether the right is
fundamental the courts do not alone weigh the economic aspect of it, but the
effect of it in human terms and the importance of it to the individual in the
life situation.’ . . . The ultimate question in each case is whether the
affected right is deemed to be of sufficient significance to preclude its
extinction or abridgement by a body lacking judicial power.” (Benetatos v. City of Los Angeles (2015) 235 Cal.App.4th 1270,
1281.) 
 
“Administrative
decisions which result in restricting a property owner’s return on his
property, increasing the cost of doing business, or reducing profits are
considered impacts on economic interests, rather than on fundamental vested
rights.” (E.W.A.P., Inc. v. City of Los
Angeles (1997) 56
Cal.App.4th 310, 325.) Where, as here, a land use decision is challenged by
administrative mandate, courts will usually apply the substantial evidence
standard of review. (See Toigo v. Town of Ross (1998) 70 Cal.App.4th 309, 317; Goat Hill Tavern v. City of Costa Mesa (1992) 6
Cal.App.4th 1519, 1527 (Goat Hill Tavern) [“The courts have rarely
upheld the application of the independent judgment test to land use decisions.”])  
 
“In contrast,
the independent judgment test is applied to review administrative decisions
that will drive an owner out of business or significantly injure the business's
ability to function.”  (Benetatos v. City of Los Angeles, supra, 235 Cal.App.4th at 1281; see Goat Hill, supra, 6 Cal.App.4th at 1529
[independent judgment test applied because city’s decision would have resulted
in the loss of owner’s 35-year-old tavern, a business in which the owner had
recently spent $1.75 million to refurbish]; The Termo Co. v. Luther (2008) 169 Cal.App.4th 394, 407 [fundamental
vested right to extract oil from wells that had been permitted for 20 years].)
 
Here, the
administrative decision impacts Petitioners’ deemed-approved status, but it does
not revoke Petitioners’ state-issued ABC license. Thus, nothing prevents Petitioners
from applying for a CUP to continue to sell alcohol at Eddie’s with their state-issued
ABC license. (See AR 7-49 and RJN Exh. A.) 
 
Petitioners
do not discuss the process for obtaining a CUP or the likelihood Petitioners
could obtain a CUP to sell alcohol at Eddie’s. Nor do Petitioners develop an
argument the conditions that might be imposed by the County with the CUP would
be unduly burdensome or expensive. 
Accordingly, Petitioners have not met their burden to show that the
requirement to pursue a CUP would force them out of business. (See Benetatos v.
City of Los Angeles, supra, 235 Cal.App.4th at 1282 [“plaintiffs failed to demonstrate that the cost of the operating
conditions that the City imposed would force Tam's out of business”].)  
 
Petitioners also do
not cite evidence of the percentage of Eddie’s revenue derived from alcohol
sales. As Petitioners’ attorney admitted during the administrative hearing,
Eddie’s is not properly characterized as a liquor store; it is a market and “80 percent of the shelf space isn’t alcohol related
product.” (AR 1029.) “It carries
wide variety of food snacks, alcoholic beverage, dry goods, household products
. . . .” (AR 1029.) Petitioners
themselves did not testify at the hearing and, as a result, did not present any
direct testimony about the impact of the administrative decision on their
business, their livelihoods, or their personal life situations. (See AR 755;
1036 at 11:59:42-57.) In such circumstances, Petitioners have not presented evidence the
administrative decision will drive them out of business, significantly injure
the business’s ability to function, or otherwise implicate a fundamental vested
right. The court concludes the administrative decision impacts purely economic
interests related to Petitioners’ operation of Eddie’s and is subject to
substantial evidence review.  
 
Petitioners’ reliance on Goat Hill
Tavern is misplaced; the case is distinguishable. There, the “Goat Hill
Tavern ha[d] been in operation for over 35 years as a legal nonconforming use.
Ziemer [the owner] invested over $1.75 million in its refurbishment.” (Goat
Hill Tavern, supra, 6 Cal. App. 4th at 1529.) The owner expanded the tavern
to include a game room and obtained a temporary conditional use permit. (Id.
at 1523.) When the temporary conditional use permit expired, the city would not
renew the permit in response to complaints “largely related to late night noise
in the parking lot and trash.” (Id. at 1524.) “The avowed purpose and
result of the city’s decision is to shut down Goat Hill.” (Id. at 1528.)
The Court held “[w]e cannot conclude on these unique facts that [the owner’s]
right to continued operation of his business is not a fundamental vested right.
This is not, as the city so strongly urges, a ‘purely economic privilege.’ It
is the right to continue operating an established business in which he has made
a substantial investment.” (Id. at 1529.)  
 
In contrast to Goat Hill Tavern, Petitioners do
not demonstrate the purpose or effect of the administrative decision is to
close Eddie’s. Petitioners also do not cite evidence of the amount of money
they have invested in Eddie’s, the percentage of revenues Eddie’s derives from
alcohol sales, the specific impact on Petitioners’ business or life situations (monetarily
or otherwise) of losing deemed-approved status, or the monetary and operational
burden of pursuing a CUP for alcohol sales at Eddie’s. Accordingly, on this
record, the court concludes the administrative decision does not impact a
fundamental vested right and the substantial evidence standard applies to the
administrative fact findings.  
 
Substantial
evidence is relevant evidence a reasonable mind might accept as adequate to
support a conclusion (California Youth
Authority v. State Personnel Board (2002) 104 Cal.App.4th 575, 584-85), or
evidence of ponderable legal significance which is reasonable in nature,
credible and of solid value. (Mohilef v.
Janovici (1996) 51 Cal. App. 4th 267, 305 n. 28.)  Under this standard of review, “[c]ourts may
reverse an [administrative] decision only if, based on the evidence . . ., a
reasonable person could not reach the conclusion reached by the agency.” (Sierra Club v. California Coastal Com.
(1993) 12 Cal.App.4th 602, 610.)   
 
Petitioners bear the burden of proof to
demonstrate, by citation to the administrative record, the evidence does not
support the administrative findings. (Strumsky
v. San Diego County Employees Retirement Assn. (1974) 11 Cal.3d 28, 32; Steele v. Los Angeles County Civil Service Commission (1958) 166 Cal.
App. 2d 129, 137.)
 
“ ‘On questions of law arising in mandate
proceedings, [the court] exercise[s] independent judgment.’ ” (Christensen v. Lightbourne (2017) 15
Cal.App.5th 1239, 1251.) The interpretation of statute or regulation is a
question of law. (See State Farm Mut. Auto. Ins. Co. v. Quackenbush
(1999) 77 Cal.App.4th 65, 77.) “A challenge to the procedural fairness of the administrative hearing
is reviewed de novo on appeal because the ultimate determination of procedural
fairness amounts to a question of law.” (Nasha
L.L.C. v. City of Los Angeles (2004) 125 Cal.App.4th 470, 482.)[3]

 
ANALYSIS 
 
Constitutionality of the SAAFE Ordinance 
 
Petitioners assert two constitutional attacks
against the SAAFE Ordinance: preemption and vagueness.  
 
“A party claiming that a legislative enactment is
invalid on its face confronts daunting obstacles to success. The first hurdle
to overcome is the bedrock principle that courts are exceedingly reluctant to
declare legislation unconstitutional. From this reluctance has come the
oft-cited rule that ‘All presumptions and intendments favor the validity of a
statute and mere doubt does not afford sufficient reason for a judicial
declaration of invalidity. Statutes must be upheld unless their
constitutionality clearly, positively and unmistakably appears.’ ” (Personal
Watercraft Coalition v. Board of Supervisors (2002) 100 Cal.App.4th 129, 137.)  
              
Preemption 
 
Petitioners contend the SAAFE Ordinance is
pre-empted by article XX, section 22 of the California Constitution and the
Alcoholic Beverage Control Act (Bus. & Prof. Code, § 23000, et seq.)
because “exclusive jurisdiction is vested in the California State Department of
Alcoholic Beverage Control to discipline authority to sell alcoholic beverages
. . . .” (Opening Brief 3:18-19.)
 
“ ‘Under article XI, section 7 of
the California Constitution, ‘[a] county or city may make 
and enforce within its limits
all local, police, sanitary, and other ordinances and regulations 
not in conflict with general laws.’ If
otherwise valid local legislation conflicts with state law, it is preempted by
such law and is void. A conflict exists if the local legislation duplicates,
contradicts, or enters an area fully occupied by general law, either expressly
or by legislative implication. . . . Local legislation is ‘duplicative’ of general law
when it is coextensive 
therewith . . . . Similarly, local legislation is ‘contradictory’
to general law when it is inimical thereto.” (San Diego Gas & Electric
Co. v. City of Carlsbad (1998) 64 Cal.App.4th 785, 792-793.)
 
Courts “have been particularly ‘reluctant
to infer legislative intent to preempt a field covered by municipal regulation
when there is a significant local interest to be served that may differ from
one locality to another.’ ” (Big Creek Lumber Co. v. County of Santa Cruz (2006)
38 Cal.4th 1139, 1149.) “ ‘[A]bsent a clear indication of preemptive intent
from the Legislature,’ we presume that local regulation ‘in an area over which
[the local government] traditionally has exercised control’ is not preempted by
state law. [Citation.] ‘The party claiming that general state law preempts a
local ordinance has the burden of demonstrating preemption.’ ” (Rental
Housing Assn. of Northern Alameda County v. City of Oakland (2009) 171
Cal.App.4th 741, 752.)
 
Here, other than asserting the “A.B.C. Department has constitutionally mandated
exclusivity in licensing and disciplining the sale of alcoholic beverages in
California,” Petitioners provide no legal analysis in support of their
preemption claim. (Opening Brief 5:17-18.) Petitioners do not explain whether they
contend the SAAFE Ordinance duplicates, contradicts, or enters an area fully
occupied by general law. Nor do Petitioners analyze the language of article
XX, section 22 of the California Constitution and the Alcoholic Beverage
Control Act. Accordingly, Petitioners do not meet their burden to prove
preemption.
 
Moreover, Petitioners’ preemption arguments “have
already been squarely rejected by the Court of Appeal with respect to an
ordinance very similar to the SAAFE ordinance enacted in the City of Los
Angeles.” (Opposition 13:19-20.) Specifically, in Korean American Local
Advocacy Foundation v. City of Los Angeles (1994) 23 Cal.App.4th 376 [Korean
American Local Advocacy Foundation], owners of retail stores licensed to
sell alcoholic beverages in South Central Los Angeles sued to enjoin the City
of Los Angeles from enforcing ordinances that, like the SAAFE Ordinance, authorized
revocation of the deemed-approved status of a business that had become a
nuisance in the area. (Id. at 382-383.) The trial court sustained
without leave to amend the city’s demurrer to the plaintiffs’ causes of action that challenged the
ordinances on preemption grounds.  
 
The Court of Appeal affirmed. The Court
reasoned: 
 
[T]he City’s ordinance is a geographic limitation which imposes
conditions on restricted businesses allowed to operate within the particular
area. The focus of the City’s ordinance is on the negative conduct which tends
to occur on premises immediately surrounding retail establishments selling
alcoholic beverages for off-site consumption. The effect of the conditions
imposed under the ordinance is to reduce or eliminate the nuisance activities
these businesses tend to attract. That the conditions imposed under the
ordinance may have some indirect impact on the sale of alcoholic beverages does
not transmute the purpose and scope of the ordinance into a regulation merely seeking
to control alcohol sales. (Id. at 389.) 
 
The Court explained: 
 
Because the
statutory language of the Alcoholic Beverage Control Act expressly allows local
governments to enact supplementary legislation directed at zoning or land use,
there is no preemption by implication of the City's ordinances which are
directed at the land use effects of these businesses. In sum, we are persuaded
state law has not completely preempted the field and the local regulation is a
valid exercise of the City's authority to enact zoning and land-use
regulations.” (Id. at 394.)  
 
In reply, Petitioners do not respond to or distinguish Korean American Local Advocacy Foundation; they therefore effectively concede the issue. (See Sehulster
Tunnels/Pre-Con v. Traylor Brothers, Inc. (2003) 111 Cal.App.4th 1328,
1345, fn. 16 [failure to address point is “equivalent to a concession”].) Petitioners
develop no argument the preemption analysis here should be different with
respect to the SAAFE Ordinance given the similarity of the ordinances at issue
in Korean American Local Advocacy Foundation. The court finds Korean
American Local Advocacy Foundation to be persuasive and controlling. Thus, Petitioners
do not demonstrate the SAAFE Ordinance is preempted by state law.
 
Accordingly,
the court finds the SAAFE Ordinance is not preempted by article XX, section 22
of the California Constitution. The ordinance does not regulate alcohol sales. Instead,
the SAAFE ordinance is a valid exercise of the County’s police powers to
control and abate nuisances. The function of the SAAFE Ordinance is zoning, not
control of the sale of alcohol.[4]
 
              Void
for Vagueness 
 
“Because the constitutional guarantee of due
process generally secures the right to notice and the opportunity to be heard .
. ., a law is unconstitutionally vague only it if fails to ‘give the
person of ordinary intelligence a reasonable opportunity to know what is
prohibited’ or to know ‘what conduct on [his or her] part will render [him or
her] liable to [the law’s] penalties.’ ”  (Diaz
v. Grill Concepts Services, Inc. (2018) 23 Cal. App. 5th 859, 870.)  
 
“This vagueness
standard is hard to meet, and its stringency is not accidental. Language itself
is notoriously imprecise. . . . Laws are also accorded a ‘strong presumption’
of constitutionality that is rebutted only upon a showing that they are ‘clearly,
positively, and unmistakably’ unconstitutional. . . . And when the law ‘regulates
business behavior,’ the general presumption of constitutionality is even
stronger and, more to the point, the law ‘is subject to a less strict vagueness
test’ because such laws have a narrower reach and because ‘businesses . . . can
be expected to consult relevant legislation in advance of action.’ ” (Ibid.)  
 
“A law is
consequently vague only if it is impossible to give the law a ‘reasonable and
practical construction.’. . . This assessment is not made in a vacuum. To the
contrary, ‘[t]he particular context is all important.’ . . . This assessment
therefore entails ‘consulting ‘other definable sources’—such as other statutes
and regulations, legislative history, judicial opinions, legal treatises, and
legal dictionaries—'that may dispel doubt and uncertainty’ appearing on
the face of the law alone. . . . In light of these standards, it is not enough
to show that a law lacks the precision of a laser or of mathematics. . . . Nor
is it enough to show that the law ‘requires interpretation’. . ., that the law’s
meaning is ‘difficult to ascertain’ . . ., or that the law is ‘difficult to
apply’.” (Id. at 870-871.)  
 
Petitioners contend
the phrases “jeopardize or endanger,” “public health,” and “adverse effects” in
LACC section 22.140.030.J.2.f.i-.ii) are vague. (Opening Brief 11:21-12:7.) LACC
section 22.140.030.J.2.f provides: 
 
At the close of the public hearing, the
Commission may allow the use to retain its deemed-approved status, or may
revoke the deemed-approved status when the information in the Director's
report, or presented at public hearing, substantiates the following findings:
 
i. Due to non-compliance with Section 22.140.030.1 (Performance
Standards for Deemed-Approved Uses), the use results in adverse effects to the
health, welfare, peace, or safety of persons visiting, residing, working, or
conducting business in the surrounding area; and 
 
ii. Due to non-compliance with Section 22.140.030.1 (Performance
Standards for Deemed-Approved Uses), the use jeopardizes or endangers the
public health, welfare, or safety of persons visiting, residing, working, or
conducting business in the surrounding area,
 
Our Supreme Court
has held similar language in an ordinance allowing denial of a license
application “ ‘if the Board finds that the said operation will not comport with
the peace, health, safety, convenience, good morals, and general welfare of the
public’. . . furnishes adequate standards to guide the Board in licensing
matters and is not unconstitutionally vague.” (Sunset Amusement Co. v. Board
of Police Commissioners (1972) 7 Cal.3d 64, 71-73.)  The Court explained: 
 
It should be kept in mind that there are
an infinite variety of activities or conduct which could result in potential or
actual danger to the ‘peace, health, safety, convenience, good morals, and
general welfare’ of the public. A municipality cannot reasonably be expected to
isolate and specify those precise activities or conduct which are intended to
be proscribed. . . . Thus, in the absence of an ascertainable effect upon First
Amendment activities, [the ordinance] provides an adequate standard to guide the
Board’s discretion, namely, that it must exercise its permit powers in a
reasonable, rather than arbitrary, manner to promote the interest of the public.
(Id. at 73-74.)
 
With respect to
land use ordinances, the Court of Appeal has similarly explained: 
 
Land use ordinances precluding uses detrimental
to the ‘general welfare’ are not unconstitutionally vague. In fact, a
substantial amount of vagueness is permitted in California zoning ordinances:
[I]n California, the most general zoning standards are usually deemed
sufficient. The standard is sufficient if the administrative body is required
to make its decision in accord with the general health, safety, and welfare
standard. (SP Star Enterprises, Inc. v. City of Los Angeles (2009) 173
Cal.App.4th 459, 473 [cleaned up].) 

 
Sunset Amusement
Co. v. Board of Police Commissioners, supra, 7 Cal.3d at 71-73 and SP Star Enterprises, Inc. v.
City of Los Angeles, supra, 173 Cal.App.4th at 473 make clear the
SAAFE Ordinance is not unconstitutional on vagueness grounds. Petitioners have
not demonstrated otherwise, and they fail to address applicable authorities on
the issue.
 
Further, as applied
here, the SAAFE Ordinance prohibits operators with deemed-approved status from
allowing a nuisance or other unlawful activities on the premises, including
loitering, disturbing the peace, and other unlawful conduct.  As these crimes are explicitly included in
the performance standards, a person of “ordinary intelligence” would have “fair
notice” that allowing these crimes to proliferate at a business may be grounds
for revocation of deemed-approved status.
 
Based on the
foregoing, Petitioners do not meet their burden of demonstrating the SAAFE
Ordinance is void for vagueness.  
 
Fair Trial and Due Process
 
Petitioners contend: 
 
Respondents revoked Petitioners’ vested authority without affording
Petitioners a meaningful opportunity to know precisely the charges against them
and a meaningful opportunity to defend against same. The Respondents thus
deprived Petitioners of very basic, constitutionally protected rights under the
Due Process Clause of the California Constitution. (Opening Brief 3:5-9.)[5]  
 
“Generally, a
fair procedure requires ‘notice reasonably calculated to apprise interested
parties of the pendency of the action . . . and an opportunity to present their
objections.’ ” (Doe v. University of
Southern California (2016) 246 Cal.App.4th 221, 240.) Due process principles, as applied to
administrative proceedings, are similar. (See ibid.; Gross v. Lopez (1975)
419 U.S. 565.) Procedural errors, “even if proved, are subject to a harmless
error analysis.” (Hinrichs v. County of
Orange (2004) 125 Cal.App.4th 921, 928.)  

 
Respondents provided Petitioners with adequate notice
and opportunity to respond to the allegations. Respondents provided notice of
the hearing by mail, newspaper, and through posting. (AR 211, 265-272, 277,
280, 401-405.) Petitioners appeared at the hearing and were represented at the
hearing by an attorney, who provided a full argument and, after public comment,
a rebuttal. (AR 1028-1036, 1049.)  
 
Petitioners contend “[t]he public hearing was not
conducted in compliance with Los Angeles County Section §22.222.120.” (Opening Brief
3:14-15.) However, Petitioners do not explain how the public hearing deviated
from the required procedures. Nor do Petitioners suggest how they were
prejudiced, if at all, by any alleged procedural error.
 
Petitioners have not met their burden of demonstrating
Respondents denied them a fair hearing or deprived them of due process.  
 
Substantial Evidence Supports the Administrative Findings

 
As discussed earlier, the substantial
evidence standard of review applies to the administrative factual findings. Under
such review, “[the court] do[es] not weigh the evidence, consider the
credibility of witnesses, or resolve conflicts in the evidence or in the
reasonable inferences that may be drawn from it. The administrative agency’s
findings come before [the court] with a strong presumption as to their
correctness and regularity. [The court] do[es] not substitute [its] judgment if
the agency’s decision is one which could have been made by reasonable people.
Only if no reasonable person could reach the conclusion reached by the
administrative agency, based on the entire record before it, will a court
conclude that the agency’s findings are not supported by substantial evidence.
(Doe v. Regents of the University of California (2016) 5 Cal.App.5th
1055, 1073.)  
 
Significantly,
when a challenge
is to “the sufficiency of the evidence, all material evidence on the point must
be set forth and not merely [a challenger’s] own evidence.” (Toigo v. Town
of Ross, supra, 70 Cal.App.4th at 317.) “And in doing so, the
challenger cannot simply ignore the evidence in the record that was relied upon
by the board . . . . Rather, the challenger must explain why that evidence is
insufficient to support that finding.” (Shenouda
v. Veterinary Medical Bd. (2018)
27 Cal.App.5th 500, 513.) Failure to adequately discuss the evidence relied
upon by the agency waives challenge to the administrative findings. (See ibid. and Nelson v. Avondale Homeowners Assn., supra, 172
Cal.App.4th at 862-863 [argument waived if not raised or adequately briefed]; Pfeifer
v. Countrywide Home Loans, Inc. (2012) 211 Cal.App.4th 1250, 1282 [same].) This
court “will not act as counsel for either party to an appeal and will not
assume the task of initiating and prosecuting a search of the record for any
purpose of discovering errors not pointed out in the briefs.” (Fox v. Erickson (1950) 99 Cal.App.2d
740, 742; see also Inyo Citizens for
Better Planning v. Inyo County Board of Supervisors (2009) 180 Cal.App.4th 1, 14. [“We are not required to search the record to ascertain whether
it contains support for [the parties’] contentions.”]) 

 
As a preliminary matter, Petitioners have not
challenged the County’s findings Petitioners failed to satisfy performance
standards related to maintenance of the premises. (See AR 791; LACC, 
§ 22.140.030.I.1 and 2.) In any event, substantial
evidence supports the findings Petitioners failed to satisfy maintenance performance
standards because “Required landscaping is not being maintained”; “junk and
salvage material [are] maintained on premises”; “a freestanding pole sign is
displayed without [Planning Department] approval”; and “Staff has observed
clothing, furniture, and junk and salvage in exterior areas, along the western
boundary of the location.” (See e.g. AR 415-417, 1024-1026, 77-260.) Petitioners
have developed no argument to the contrary.[6]
(See generally Opening Brief 6-10 and Reply.) 

 
Petitioners make two principal attacks on
the adequacy of the evidence supporting revocation. First, they claim there is insufficient evidence of a “nexus” between
any acts or omissions of Petitioners and the police calls and crime statistics
relied on by the County to find violations of the SAAFE Ordinance performance
standards. Second, Petitioners contend there is no comparative evidence in the
record such that the number of police calls made to Eddie’s could be found
“excessive.” Petitioners also generally argue “[t]here is no evidence in this
record that any such [police] calls, except 12 of them, were actually made to
Eddie’s Liquor itself” and the evidence does not show that certain crimes, such
as loitering, alcohol consumption, or disturbances of the peace, actually
occurred on Eddie’s premises. (Opening Brief 8:1-2, 8:23-10:17.)  
 
              Legal
Standard 
 
To maintain a deemed-approved status under the SAAFE
Ordinance, an operator “shall not cause, allow, or permit nuisance and other
unlawful activities on the premises including, but not limited to: . . . [numerous
unlawful activities].” (LACC, § 22.140.030.I.7.) Thus, the plain language of
the SAAFE Ordinance requires some causal connection or nexus between the acts
or omissions of the operator and the "unlawful activities,” which must
occur “on the premises” to violate the SAAFE Ordinance’s performance standards.
The SAAFE Ordinance is consistent with the law of nuisance. “A property owner
who fails to take reasonable actions to prevent criminal activity on the
owner's property may be subject to nuisance liability if that criminal activity
harms the surrounding community.” (Benetatos v. City of Los Angeles, supra, 235
Cal.App.4th at 1282-1283.) 
 
Contrary to Petitioners’ assertion, however, there is
no requirement in the SAAFE Ordinance or applicable law that the County
establish the number of law enforcement service calls to Eddie’s was
“excessive” or that the County submit “comparative evidence” of the number of
police calls to a similar business establishment. (See Opening Brief 7:19-24.) 
 
Petitioners support their “comparative evidence” position
with BSA, Inc. v. King County (9th Cir. 1986) 804 F.2d 1104 [BSA,
Inc.]. The Ninth Circuit’s decision in BSA, Inc., however, is
inapposite.  BSA, Inc. involved a
First Amendment challenge to Washington state ordinances prohibiting barroom
nude topless dancing. The Court noted “[w]here a regulation places a substantial
restriction on free expression, as does this ban on nude dancing, it is subject
to strict scrutiny.”  (Id. at
1108.) For a ban on expressive conduct to survive strict scrutiny analysis,
“the government must show that the business has an impact ‘different’ than
other businesses to justify the restriction was intended to accomplish its
stated purposes.” (Ibid.) In this specific context, the Court criticized
the government’s failure to provide “comparative statistics” with respect to
other businesses. (Ibid.)[7]
 
Petitioners do not challenge the SAAFE Ordinance on
First Amendment grounds; they also identify no reason the ordinance should be
subjected to strict scrutiny review. BSA, Inc. does
not hold that comparative statistics must be submitted by a local government in
a land-use matter involving allegations of nuisance against a property owner. “
‘It is axiomatic that language in a judicial opinion is to be understood
in accordance with the facts and issues before the court. An opinion
is not authority for propositions not considered.’ ” (People
v. Knoller (2007) 41 Cal.4th 139, 154-155.) Therefore, the court rejects Petitioners’
“comparative evidence” claim as unsupported in the law.
 
Accordingly,
the court considers whether substantial evidence supports Respondents’ findings

 
·       Petitioners
caused, allowed, or permitted nuisance
and other unlawful activities on the premises and failed to take reasonable
steps to prevent such nuisance activities on the premises; and 
·       Petitioners’ failure to comply with the performance
standards “results in adverse effects to the health, welfare, peace, and/or
safety of persons visiting, residing, working, or conducting business in the
surrounding area.” (AR 791-796.)
 
Substantial Evidence Supports Respondents’ Findings
Petitioners Caused, Allowed, or Permitted Nuisance and Other Unlawful
Activities on the Premises and Failed to Take Reasonable Steps to Prevent Such
Nuisance Activities on the Premises
 
Respondents found Petitioners failed
to comply with LACC section 22.140.030.I.7.a, b, e, f, g, h, i, j, and k of the
SAAFE Ordinance because Petitioners caused, allowed, or permitted nuisance and
other unlawful activities on the premises between October 19, 2017 and July 31,
2020. The incidents recorded by the Sheriff’s Department included loitering;
drinking alcoholic beverages and/or possessing alcoholic beverage containers in
exterior portions of the premises; disturbing the peace; illegal tobacco sales,
drug activity, gambling, or prostitution; trafficking in stolen goods;
harassing of passerby or business patrons; panhandling; vandalism; and other
conduct that is unlawful and/or constitutes a nuisance. (AR 791-793.) 
 
Petitioners argue “[t]here is no
evidence in this record that any such [police] calls, except 12 of them, were
actually made to Eddie’s Liquor itself.” (Opening Brief 8:1-2.) However,
Petitioners do not discuss all relevant evidence supporting the administrative
findings, including the staff report to the Commission and inspection
photographs and videos (AR 81-260, 409-514) and extensive crime statistics and
supporting documentation from the Sheriff’s Department. (AR 439-487, 926-1018.)

 
Respondents cite substantial evidence
from the staff report and Sheriff’s Department documentation demonstrating during
the period between October 19, 2017 and July 31, 2020, there were 22 instances
of a crime report or arrest at Eddie’s and 106 law enforcement calls to Eddie’s
or its immediate exterior vicinity (sidewalk, street, alleyway, or parking
lot). (Opposition 19:10-15; see AR 412-422, 440-442, 930-932, 940-953.) Significantly,
the Sheriff’s Department Crime Incidents Report and Computer Aided Dispatch (CAD)
Report specifically differentiate between crime reports/arrests and law
enforcement calls to the “Liquor Store” (10803 and 10805 S. Western Avenue and
immediate exterior vicinity) and other nearby locations (e.g., adjacent
business at 10815 S. Western Avenue or the intersection of West 108th
Street and South Western Avenue). (See AR 440-442.) Petitioners fail to address
evidence the Sheriff’s Department excluded the nearby intersection and
neighboring business from the crime statistics for Eddie’s. Thus, contrary to
Petitioners’ assertion, the record contains substantial evidence the 106 police
calls were made to Eddie’s.[8]
 
The staff report states among the 106 law
enforcement service calls to and 22 crime incidents at Eddie’s[9]
involved crimes that explicitly violate the performance standards in the SAAFE
Ordinance, specifically: 43 incidents of loitering; 29 incidents of drinking
alcoholic beverages and/or possessing open alcoholic beverage containers; 61
instances of disturbing the peace; 3 incidents of illegal tobacco sales, drug
activity, gambling, or prostitution; 1 incident of trafficking in stolen goods;
6 incidents of harassing of passerby or business patrons; 1 incident of
panhandling; 1 incident of vandalism; and 20 incidents of other conduct that is
unlawful or constitutes a nuisance. (AR 418-20.) 
 
The staff report provided specific
descriptions of events at Eddie’s resulting in a law enforcement calls
for service:
 
·      
6/23/2018 – 5-6 persons panhandling in front
of location.
·      
9/20/2018 – Group of male adults hanging out
drinking alcohol and cursing at store workers.
·      
10/06/2018 – Individual slouched over and
motionless at the location from using narcotics
·      
12/27/2018 – Female intoxicated, unable to
stand on her own (public
intoxication)
·      
08/07/2019 – 10 persons loitering, drinking,
arguing, harassing patrons, and refusing to leave
·      
12/12/2019 – Male adult living in the location
parking lot refusing to leave
·      
12/28/2019 – Suspects shoplifting alcohol,
cigarette, and lottery tickets and physically assaulting store workers.
·      
04/26/2020 – Suspect punched an individual in
the face at the location
·      
07/25/2020 – Two males fighting in the
location parking lot
·       07/26/2020
– Man arrested for a stolen vehicle parked at location 
(AR 415.)
 
In their Opening Brief, Petitioners
have not provided a comprehensive discussion of the staff report or Sheriff’s Department
documentation. Petitioners do not demonstrate in their Opening Brief the staff
report summary is not substantial evidence in support of the administrative
findings. Notably, the staff report is supported by various Sheriff’s
Department reports and documentation, including a detailed “Problem Profile”
report documenting numerous instances of illegal activity, including loitering,
disturbing the peace, and other incidents summarized in the staff report. (AR 940-953.)[10]
 
For
the first time in their Reply, Petitioners argue certain call records do not
name “Eddie’s Liquor” as the location for the law enforcement service calls.
Petitioners also argue, for the first time in Reply, “[t]he[] isolated reports
[pertaining to Eddie’s] are essentially de minimus.”  (Reply 3:17-4:24 [citing AR 459-487].)[11] 
 
“The salutary rule is that points raised in a reply
brief for the first time will not be considered unless good cause is shown for
the failure to present them before.” (Balboa Ins. Co. v. Aguirre (1983)
149 Cal.App.3d 1002, 1010; see also Regency
Outdoor Advertising v. Carolina Lances, Inc. (1995) 31 Cal.App.4th 1323, 1333.) Petitioners filed their petition
in October 2022 and the court set the matter for trial more than a year ago.
Petitioners do not show good cause to raise these new arguments concerning the
sufficiency of the evidence in their Reply Brief. Petitioners have deprived
Respondents of a full and fair opportunity to respond to the argument.
Accordingly, the court is inclined to reject them.  
 
Even
assuming the court exercises its discretion to consider the late argument, it
is unpersuasive. Petitioners’ reply argument focuses on a single report before the
Planning Department—the Regional Allocation of Police Services (RAPS) Report,
submitted as Exhibit F to the staff report. (AR 443-487.) The administrative
findings, however, are not based solely on the RAPS Report. The findings are
also based on the staff report (AR 412-422); photographs of the premises,
including photographs that appear to show persons loitering on the exterior
premises of Eddie’s (AR 81-260);
and other Sheriff’s Department crime statistics documentation, such as the detailed “Problem Profile” report, that includes
incidents not documented in the RAPS Report.[12] (AR 940-953.) 
 
Petitioners do not show they objected to any of this
evidence at the administrative hearing. Because Petitioners do not address all
relevant record evidence that supports the administrative findings, they do not
meet their burden to show a prejudicial abuse of discretion. (See Toigo v. Town of Ross, supra, 70 Cal.App.4th at 317; Shenouda v. Veterinary
Medical Bd., supra, 27 Cal.App.5th
at 513; Nelson v. Avondale Homeowners Assn., supra, 172
Cal.App.4th at 862-863.) Further, as Petitioners acknowledge,
the RAPS Report documents incidents of loitering (AR 449, 459), disturbing the
peace (AR 466, 474, 476), and an apparent assault at the premises (AR 448
[attempted stabbing with scissors], 482). Thus, the RAPS Report, in conjunction
with other evidence, supports the administrative findings. (See AR
459-487.)  
 
The staff report and Sheriff Department’s
reports document numerous incidents of illegal activity at the premises,
including 43 incidents of loitering and 61 incidents of disturbing the peace. While
it is true such incidents occurred over more than two years, Petitioners have a
legal duty pursuant to the SAAFE Ordinance to ensure that such illegal
activities do not occur with regularity on their premises and to take
reasonable steps to prevent a public nuisance from occurring on the premises.
In that context, the number of illegal activities occurring at the premises from
October 19, 2017 and July 31, 2020, is
not de minimis, as Petitioners suggest in reply. (See Reply 4:20-24.) 
 
Petitioners also contend there is no evidence
they caused, had knowledge of, or allowed the illegal activities that occurred
on the premises. The staff report, photographs, Crime
Incidents Report, CAD Report, Sheriff’s Department Problem Profile report, and
other Sheriff’s Department documentation, as well as the testimony of the
Sheriff’s Department lieutenant at the hearing, are substantial evidence in
support of the administrative findings regarding the types and numbers of
illegal activities occurring at the premises. (See AR 81-260, 409-514, 926-1018,
1022-1028.) Notably, Petitioners did not testify at the hearing and did not
rebut this substantial evidence. Because Petitioners are the owners and
operators of the premises and because the crime statistics show recurring
nuisance activities for a long period of time, it may reasonably be inferred
Petitioners had knowledge of the illegal activities and managed the premises in
a manner that allowed such illegal activities to occur.  
 
Photographs in the
record, taken by Planning Department staff, further corroborate the Sheriff’s Department
documentation of loitering at the premises. (See e.g., AR 81-95.) The
photographs show chairs in the parking lot of Eddie’s (AR 168), persons sitting
on those chairs and other objects on the exterior premises of Eddie’s (AR 85, 110,
122) and persons standing outside of Eddie’s (AR 110, 117). Respondents could reasonably
infer from the photographs and crime statistics that Petitioners allowed or
permitted loitering at the premises. Petitioners’ arguments to the contrary
lack evidentiary support and are unpersuasive. 

 
Respondents also found Petitioners
failed to take all reasonable steps to ensure the conditions and activities on
the lot or parcel of land on which the use is located do not constitute a
public nuisance in violation of LACC section 22.140.030.I.8. (AR 793.)
Respondents acknowledged at least some of the 106 calls for service “were
likely from employees of the Establishment,” but noted that “due to a variety
of factors, including anonymous callers or unknown employees’ names, the
Sheriff’s Department cannot definitively determine the exact number of calls
originated by employees of the Establishment.” (AR 794.) Respondents also cited
evidence that Petitioners did not address the presence of loiterers on the
premises during an inspection on October 28, 2020, and Petitioners did not
provide documentation of measures they have taken to address nuisances. (AR
794.)
 
Petitioners do not show Respondents
prejudicially abused their discretion with their factual findings. Petitioners
argue they are “victims” of some of the illegal activities on the premises, and
Petitioners’ employees made some of the calls for service. Petitioners also
assert, in reply, LACC section “§22.140.030 (I) (9) (b) absolutely mandated
that Eddie’s Liquor report any perceived misconduct in its premises to the
Sheriff.” (Reply 5:1-2.) Nonetheless, even assuming Petitioners’ employees made
some of the calls for service, that does not demonstrate Petitioners had taken
reasonable steps to address the nuisances given the large volume of calls for
service and ongoing incidents of illegal activities over more than two years. Petitioners
and their employees did not testify at the administrative hearing, and
Petitioners cite no evidence in the record showing Petitioners took reasonable
steps to ensure nuisance activities did not occur at the premises. For example,
Petitioners do not explain the photographic evidence showing persons loitering
on chairs outside of the premises. (AR 81-95, 85.) They also do not cite
evidence of taking reasonable operational steps such as hiring a security guard
to curtail nuisance activities.  
 
Based on the
foregoing, substantial evidence supports Respondents’ findings Petitioners
caused, allowed, or permitted nuisance and other unlawful activities on the
premises. Substantial evidence also supports Respondents’ findings Petitioners failed to take all reasonable steps to
ensure the conditions and activities on the lot or parcel of land on which the
use is located do not constitute a public nuisance, in violation of LACC section
22.140.030.I.7 and 22.140.030.I.8.
 
Substantial Evidence Supports the Finding Petitioners’
Failure to Comply with Performance Standards Results in Adverse Effects to the
Health, Welfare, Peace, and/or Safety of Persons Visiting, Residing, Working,
or Conducting Business in the Surrounding Area 
 
Respondents found Petitioners’ “failure
to comply with the performance standards established by Section 22.140.030.I
for deemed-approved uses results in adverse effects to the health, welfare,
peace, and/or safety of persons visiting, residing, working, or conducting
business in the surrounding area.” (AR 796.) As discussed earlier, the court
rejects Petitioners’ argument this provision of the SAAFE Ordinance is void for
vagueness. Petitioners otherwise do not challenge the sufficiency of the
evidence in support of this finding. Based on the evidence of recurring
illegal, nuisance activities on the premises, substantial evidence supports the
finding Petitioners’ failure to comply with performance standards results in
adverse effects to the health, welfare, peace, and/or safety of persons
visiting, residing, working, or conducting business in the surrounding area.
 
Substantial evidence supports all of
Respondents’ administrative findings. Petitioners also do not show a
prejudicial abuse of discretion as to any specific finding made by Respondents.

 
///
 
Alternatively, The Weight of the Evidence
Supports the Administrative Findings 
 
As discussed, the court concludes the
substantial evidence test applies to review Respondents’ administrative
findings. However, even if the court were to conclude the revocation of
Petitioners’ deemed-approved status implicated a fundamental vested right, and the
court used its independent judgment test to review the administrative findings,
the court reaches the same result.
 
Under the independent judgment test, “the
trial court not only examines the administrative record for errors of law, but
also exercises its independent judgment upon the evidence disclosed in a
limited trial de novo.” (Bixby v. Pierno, supra,
4 Cal.3d at 143.) The court may draw its own reasonable inferences from the
evidence and make its determinations as to the credibility of witnesses. (Morrison v. Housing Authority of the City of
Los Angeles Bd. of Comrs. (2003) 107 Cal. App. 4th 860, 868.) However, “in
exercising its independent judgment, a trial court must afford a strong
presumption of correctness concerning the administrative findings, and the
party challenging the administrative decision bears the burden of convincing
the court that the administrative findings are contrary to the weight of the
evidence.” (Fukuda v. City of Angeles (1999) 20 Cal. 4th 805, 817; see also
Evid. Code, § 664.)
 
Here, in the alternative, the court exercises its
independent judgment and concludes Respondents’ administrative findings are
amply supported by the weight of the evidence. (See AR 790-796.) As noted, Petitioners
have not challenged the findings
Petitioners failed to satisfy performance standards related to maintenance of
the premises. (See AR 791; LACC, 
§ 22.140.030.I.1 and 2.)  The court concludes the weight of the evidence—the staff report, photographs, Crime
Incidents Report, CAD Report, Sheriff’s Department Problem Profile report, and
other Sheriff’s Department documentation, as well as the testimony of the
Sheriff’s Department lieutenant at the hearing—support of the administrative
findings concerning the types and numbers of illegal activities occurring at
the premises. (See AR 81-260, 409-514, 926-1018, 1022-1028.) 
 
Because Petitioners
are the owners and operators of the premises and because the crime statistics
show recurring nuisance activities for a long period of time, the weight of the
evidence supports the finding Petitioners had knowledge of the illegal activities
and managed the premises in a manner that allowed such illegal activities to
occur. Given the large volume of recurring illegal, nuisance activities over a
long period of time, the weight of the evidence supports the finding
Petitioners did not take reasonable steps to address the nuisances.  Further, Petitioners cite insufficient
evidence of reasonable steps taken to address the nuisances, such as the hiring
of a security guard or removal of chairs used for loitering. Based on the evidence of recurring illegal, nuisance
activities on the premises, the weight of the evidence supports the finding
that Petitioners’ failure to comply with performance standards results in
adverse effects to the health, welfare, peace, and/or safety of persons
visiting, residing, working, or conducting business in the surrounding area.
 
The weight of the evidence supports
all administrative findings. Moreover, Petitioners also do not show a
prejudicial abuse of discretion in any specific finding made by Respondents. 
 
CONCLUSION 
 
The petition is denied.
 
IT IS SO ORDERED. 
 
January 31, 2023                                                                   ________________________________ 
Hon. Mitchell Beckloff  
Judge of the Superior Court 
 


