 Case Number:  23STCP02247    Hearing Date:   January 31, 2024    Dept:  86 COMPTON PROPERTY
GROUP LLC v. THE CITY OF COMPTON
Case Number: 23STCP02247
Hearing Date: January
31, 2024 
 
 
[Tentative]       ORDER GRANTING MOTIONS TO COMPEL FURTHER
 
 
Petitioner, Compton Property Group LLC, moves
for orders compelling Respondent, The City of Compton, to provide “compliant
responses” to Petitioner’s requests for production, set one (RFPs), request for
admissions, set one (RFAs), and form interrogatories, set one (FIs).  Petitioner also moves for monetary sanctions
against City and its attorneys, Richard,
Watson & Gershon and Ginetta L. Giovinco in the combined amount of $13,005.
 
The discovery motions are granted as
specified herein.
Sanctions against the City are granted
in the amount of $4,400.  
 
BACKGROUND AND RELEVANT
PROCEDURAL HISTORY
 
On June 27, 2023,
Petitioner filed its original petition for writ of mandate and complaint. The
petition alleged the City refused to accept Petitioner’s Builder’s Remedy
application. Based on the factual allegations, Petitioner sought a writ of
mandate (and declaratory relief) compelling the City to accept its Builder’s
Remedy application. Petitioner also alleged a cause of action under 42 U.S.C.
section 1983. After the City filed a demurrer to the petition, Petitioner filed
the operative first amended petition and complaint (FAP).
 
The first cause
of action in the FAP alleges on June 22, 2023, Petitioner submitted a Builder’s
Remedy application for 1601 W. El Segundo Boulevard (the Property) to the City by
email. That same day, Petitioner’s agency went to Compton City Hall to pay the
application fee. The City allegedly refused to process the application on the
grounds the City does not accept applications electronically. (FAP ¶¶ 37-41.)
On June 26, 2023, Plaintiff returned to City Hall and attempted to submit a
paper copy of the Builder’s Remedy application, along with the required fees. The
City allegedly refused to accept the application. (FAP ¶¶ 42-48.) Plaintiff
alleges the City’s refusal to accept and process its Builder’s Remedy application
violated the Housing Accountability Act (HAA), Government Code section 65589.5,
which authorizes the Builder’s Remedy, and also the Housing Crisis Act of 2019
(HCA).  (Id. ¶¶ 24-31, 51-52, 68.)  
 
In the FAP, Petitioner
also alleges the City accepted and processed the application subsequent to
Petitioner initiating this proceeding. Petitioner contends in the FAP certain
legal issues have not been resolved regarding City’s alleged failure to accept
and process the application:
 
49. On or about July 19, 2023, the
City agreed to accept and process the application due to this lawsuit. 
50. However, the City now takes the
position that it had always accepted and processed the application when
submitted and that Petitioner simply “misunderstood” the situation. 
51. Therefore, there needs to be a
determination as to whether the City engaged in violations of the HAA, HCA and [Permit
Streamlining Act (PSA)] by refusing to accept and process the application. 
52. There also needs to be a
determination as to what damages accrued due to the City’s initial refusal to
comply with the HAA, HCA and PSA. (FAP ¶¶ 49-52.)
 
On October 2,
2023, Petitioner filed the motions to compel. 

 
In support of the
motions to compel, Petitioner submits a letter from the City’s Community
Development Department, dated July 18, 2023, which states in pertinent part: 
 
The City agrees to accept the
Preliminary Application submittals as of June 22, 2023. . . . Additionally, as
a point of clarification, we did not refuse to accept the PA when you visited
the Community Development Department and attempted to pay the PA fee.  Our Planning Technician correctly noted that
the City has not adopted a PA fee and cannot accept any funds proffered as such.
. . . We apologize for any confusion or misunderstanding. . . .  (Eilenberg Decl. ¶¶ 15-17, Exh. H.)
 
ANALYSIS 
 
For a motion to compel further responses
to discovery, “the propounding party must demonstrate that the responses were
incomplete, inadequate or evasive, or that the responding party asserted
objections that are either without merit or too general.” (Sinaiko Healthcare Consulting, Inc. v. Pacific Healthcare Consultants
(2007) 148 Cal.App.4th 390, 403; see Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.310, subd. (a).) The moving
party must also submit a meet and confer declaration that complies with Code of
Civil Procedure section 2016.040. (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 2030.300, subd. (b), 2031.310, subd. (b).)
 
Meet and Confer 
 
“A meet and confer declaration in support
of a motion shall state facts showing a reasonable and good faith attempt at an
informal resolution of each issue presented by the motion.” (Code Civ.
Proc., § 2016.040; Clement v. Alegre (2009) 177 Cal.App.4th
1277, 1293.)
 
Here, Petitioner’s counsel “had multiple
meet and confers with Defendant’s counsel regarding this discovery” before the
motions were filed. (Jacobs Decl. ¶¶ 4-5.) The declaration of the City’s
counsel and attached exhibits similarly show the parties met and conferred about
certain issues raised by the discovery motions. (Giovinco Decl. ¶¶ 4-17, Exh.
2.) The meet and confer efforts were not terribly exacting. That said, the parties
were largely at impasse on the discovery issue—Petitioner indicated it intended
to obtain discovery to bring an attorney’s fees motion, and the City argued the
discovery sought was inappropriate. The court finds, except with respect to
certain issues discussed below, Petitioner satisfied the meet and confer
requirement.
 
Alleged Procedural Defects in Notices of
Motion and Separate Statements 
 
The City argues the motions are
procedurally defective because Petitioner “failed to include in its purported
notice a citation to any authority or statutory basis for its motion,” and
because Petitioner filed “motions to compel,” even though the City already
provided initial responses.  (Opposition
8:11-12, 8:5-6.) Relatedly, the City contends, if construed as motions to
compel further, the motions are procedurally defective because the separate
statements “referenc[e] multiple exhibits and fail[] to summarize them.” (Opposition
9:8-9.) The City’s arguments are unpersuasive. 

 
The motions are reasonably interpreted to
request an order to compel further responses to discovery. In each notice,
Petitioner states it “will request the Court enter an order compelling compliant
responses” to the discovery, which implies the City provided initial responses.
(See Notices 2:2-3.) That is, the motion does not simply seek to compel responses—it
seeks “compliant responses.”  Petitioner’s
position is clear when it explains in each motion “[t]he basis for this motion
is [] Plaintiff propounded written discovery on Defendant and Defendant refused
to comply, providing objection only responses to the discovery.” (See Notices
2:6-7 [emphasis added].) Although Petitioner should have cited the statutes
governing motions to compel further responses (see e.g., Code Civ.
Proc., § 2031.310), there
can be no prejudice here—the City understood Petitioner seeks further responses
to discovery propounded, and both parties filed separate statements.
 
Petitioner’s separate statements comply
with California Rules of Court (CRC), Rule 3.1345, subdivision (c). The
separate statements sufficiently summarize the “pleadings, other documents in the file, or other items of
discovery [that] are relevant to the motion.” (CRC, Rule 3.1345, subd. (c)(6).)  The City does not argue that the separate
statements are deficient in any other way or misleading.
 
Mootness 
 
The City
contends all of Petitioner’s discovery is not relevant to the subject
matter of this legal action because Petitioner’s counsel admitted the “City has
now retroactively accepted the application” (Opposition 6:17-18) and “the only
issue that remains is attorney’s fees for 
having to
bring the litigation to force compliance by the City.” (See Opposition 6:20-21;
see Giovinco Decl. Exh. 2 at p. 16.) Essentially, the City asserts the Civil
Discovery Act does not authorize discovery solely to support a motion for
attorney’s fees in a legal proceeding. (See Opposition 7:2-4. [“Petitioner presents no authority to support its
contention that discovery is appropriate . . . to marshal purported evidence
for a fees argument.”])
 
Code of Civil
Procedure section 2017.010 provides: 
 
Unless otherwise limited by order of the
court in accordance with this title, any party may obtain discovery regarding any
matter, not
privileged, that is relevant to the subject matter
involved in the pending action or to the determination of any motion made in
that action, if the matter either is itself admissible in evidence or appears reasonably calculated to lead to
the discovery of admissible evidence. Discovery
may relate to the claim or defense of the party seeking discovery
or of any other party to the action. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2017.010 [emphasis added].)  
 
An “action”
includes “a civil action and a special proceeding of a civil nature.” (Code Civ.
Proc.,  § 2016.020, subd. (a).) Writ
proceedings are special proceedings of a civil nature. (See Code Civ. Proc., §
1063, et seq.)
 
Thus, the
scope of discovery is broad. Further, contrary the City’s argument, Code of
Civil Procedure section 2017.010 explicitly authorizes discovery that is
relevant “to the determination of any motion made in that action.” Petitioner
has represented it intends to bring a motion for attorney’s fees pursuant to Code
of Civil Procedure section 1021.5 and the HAA. Petitioner has also represented
it is pursuing discovery to obtain evidence to support its motion for attorney’s
fees, specifically to address City’s contention that it did not refuse to
accept the application in June 2023. The court finds Petitioner is specifically
authorized by Code of Civil Procedure section 2017.010 to pursue discovery
relevant to its attorney’s fee motion.  The
City cites no authority to the contrary.[1]  
 
There has
been no judicial determination the first cause of action, or any other part of
the FAP, is moot. The court does not decide questions of mootness on a motion
to compel further responses to discovery. Moreover, while Petitioner’s counsel
has indicated in meet and confer correspondence the request for writ relief is
moot, Petitioner’s counsel specifically stated Petitioner would pursue
attorney’s fees and needed discovery for an attorney’s fees motion.  (Giovinco Decl. Exh. 2 at 16.)  
 
The City
bases its relevance objection primarily on the alleged mootness of this legal
action, not the specific discovery requests made. The broad relevance objection
is overruled because it does not address the attorney’s fees issue. 
 
Having
overruled the general objection based on mootness, the court addresses the
specific discovery sought by Petitioner and the City’s specific objections to
the discovery.  
  
RFPs 1
through 3: The City Email Communications Regarding the Property 
 
RFPs 1
through 3 seek all City emails “by,” “to,” or “between” City employees
regarding the Property from January 1, 2023 to the present. The City objected
to these RFPs on grounds of relevance, undue burden and harassment, the
information is equally available to Petitioner, attorney-client privilege, and
attorney work product.
 
Petitioner
has shown, as a general matter, production of the City emails regarding the
Property is reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible
evidence regarding its claim for attorney’s fees pursuant to Code of Civil
Procedure section 1021.5.[2] 
 
Petitioner’s first
cause of action sought a writ directing the City to “accept and process Petitioner’s
Builder’s Remedy Application that was originally submitted electronically on
June 22, 2023, and brought for an in-person submission on June 26, 2023.” (FAP
¶ 60.) Petitioner submits evidence the City did not accept the application
until July 19, 2023 after Petitioner initiated this litigation. (Eilenberg
Decl. ¶¶ 15-16.) In a letter dated July 18, 2023 (emailed on July 19, 2023), the
City asserted it did not refuse to accept and process the application and there
was simply a “misunderstanding.” (Id. at ¶ 17, Exh. H.)[3]  
 
If Petitioner
can demonstrate this litigation caused the City to accept and/or process the
application, such evidence, along with other evidence, may support an award of
attorney’s fees pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure 1021.5 and a “catalyst”
theory. (See California Public Records Research, Inc.
v. County of Yolo (2016) 4
Cal.App.5th 150, 191 [CPPR] [catalyst theory elements].)[4] A production of the City
emails regarding the Property, for a pertinent time period, could lead to the
discovery of admissible evidence to support Petitioner’s contention its lawsuit
was a “material factor” causing the City to accept and/or process its Builder’s
Remedy application.  
 
The City asserts the RFPs are overbroad
because they do “not mention ‘development’ of the property, nor is
‘development’ relevant to the litigation which is about acceptance of a
Preliminary Application, not the underlying project.” (Resp. Sep. St. re: RFPs
6.) Since Petitioner submitted its application for a Builder’s Remedy in June
2023, it appears likely any City emails after that date would concern Petitioner’s
application and development of the Property. The City does not identify any
other reason the City’s emails during this period would discuss the Property.
 
While not argued by the City,
Petitioner’s RFPs are temporally overbroad. The subject of the emails sought only
concern the Property. As Petitioner did not submit its Builder’s Remedy
application until June 22, 2023, the only relevant City email communications
would have occurred after Petitioner submitted (or attempted to submit) the
application. Presumably, if this litigation caused the City to accept and/or
process the application, the decision would be reflected in emails between June
22, the date of submission, and July 19, 2023, when the City emailed Petitioner
to advise it was accepting the application. Since the relevant time period of
June 22 and July 19, 2023, is shown by the FAP and Petitioner’s declarations, the
court finds limiting the scope of the RFPs to communications between June 22,
2023 and some reasonable period after July 19, 2023 (i.e., 30 days).
 
To the extent, Petitioner contends email
communications before June 22, 2023 and more than 30 days after July 19, 2023
are relevant, Petitioner should have raised the issue during the meet and
confer with evidence and legal argument. (See
Code Civ.
Proc., § 2016.040; see
also Clement v. Alegre,
supra, 177 Cal.App.4th at 1293 [meet and confer is to
resolve each issue]. Jacobs Decl.
¶ 4; Giovinco Decl. and Exh. 1-2.)
 
The City does not support its remaining
objections. (See Resp. Sep. St. re: RFPs 2-6.) 
Objecting parties must file evidence detailing the amount of work involved
to support objections based upon burden and oppression. (West Pico Furniture
Co. v. Superior Court (1961) 56 Cal.2d 407, 417.)  The City submits no evidence of undue burden
or harassment. The City does not show the emails are equally available to
Petitioner. The City develops no argument that any of the emails are subject to
the attorney-client privilege or attorney work product doctrine. In any event, the
City may produce a privilege log for any emails withheld pursuant to those
privileges.  (See generally Hernandez v. Superior Court (2003) 112
Cal.App.4th 285, 292.) Finally, for the reasons discussed, the City’s general
objection based on mootness is not persuasive.
 
 
Based on the foregoing, the motion to
compel further responses to RFPs 1 through 3 is granted with the temporal
limitation discussed. To the extent the City contends any responsive documents
constitute attorney-client privileged material or attorney-work product,
Petitioner shall submit a produce a privilege log.
 
RFPs 4
Through 5: Security Videos from Compton City Hall from June 22 and 26, 2023
 
RFPs 4 and 5 seek all security videos
for Compton City Hall from June 22 and 26, 2023. The City claims the RFPs are
irrelevant, intended solely to cause unwarranted burden and harassment,
overbroad, and violate a right to privacy. The court agrees with the City’s
relevance objection.
 
First, to the extent Petitioner seeks
video footage for the entire days of June 22 and 26, the request is overbroad.
Petitioner knows what time its agent was at City Hall on those dates. To the
extent there is a dispute about whether Petitioner’s agent appeared at City
Hall, Petitioner would need video only of the time its agent was at City Hall.
Any other footage would be irrelevant and unlikely to lead to the discovery of
relevant evidence.  
 
Petitioner admittedly interacted with
City employees at City Hall only for short periods those days. (FAP ¶¶ 37-48.) While
perhaps Petitioner could have made a case for excerpts of the security videos
showing Petitioner’s representative interacting with City employees, Petitioner
does not show it raised that issue in meet and confer or offered to narrow the
scope of these RFPs. (See Jacobs Decl. ¶ 4; Giovinco Decl. and Exh. 1-2.)
Contrary to Petitioner’s assertion, Petitioner had the burden to raise that
issue in meet and confer.  (See Pet. Sep.
St. re: RFPs 8-9; see also Clement
v. Alegre, supra, 177 Cal.App.4th at 1293. [“The
Discovery Act requires that, prior to the initiation of a motion to compel, the
moving party declare that he or she has made a serious attempt to obtain
‘an informal resolution of each issue.’ ” (Emphasis added.)])  
 
The
court also cannot determine the FAP and motion papers how the RFPs might be
narrowed.  
The motion to compel further responses
to RFPs 4 and 5 is denied.
 
RFAs 1
Through 14: Requests for Admissions re: Petitioner’s Builders’ Remedy
Preliminary Application 
 
RFAs 1
through 4 ask the City to admit Petitioner submitted its Builder’s Remedy
application for the Property on June 22, 2023; the City refused to process or
accept the application on that date; and the City refused to accept payment
that date. RFAs 5 through 8 seek similar admissions regarding Petitioner’s
alleged submission of the application and payment on June 26, 2023. RFAs 9
through 14 ask the City to admit the City had no basis to refuse to accept or
process the Builder’s Remedy application or to refuse payment on June 22 or 26,
2023.
 
The City
objected to the RFAs on the grounds of relevance; unwarranted burden and
harassment; vague and ambiguous as to the terms “process” or “basis;” and/or
equally available to Petitioner.  
 
For the reasons discussed earlier, City’s
general objection based on mootness is unpersuasive.
 
The City does not support its remaining
objections. (See generally Resp. Sep. St. re: RFAs.) RFAs “differ fundamentally
from other forms of discovery. Rather than seeking to uncover information, they
seek to eliminate the need for proof.” (Murillo v. Superior Court (2006)
143 Cal.App.4th 730, 735.) Given this purpose, the City fails to show the responses
to RFAs are “equally available” to Petitioner; only the City can answer the
RFAs and thereby eliminate the need for proof by Petitioner. Relatedly, since
the RFAs relate to the subject matter of the proceeding and Petitioner’s claim
for attorney’s fees pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 1021.5, the City’s
relevance objection is not persuasive.  
 
The court also is not persuaded the terms
“process” or “basis,” as used in the RFAs, are so ambiguous that City cannot in
good faith provide an intelligent response. (See Cembrook v. Superior Court (1961)
56 Cal.2d 423, 429-430 [objection RFA is “ambiguous” is improper unless RFA is
so ambiguous that a good faith and intelligent response cannot be given]; see
also Code Civ. Proc., § 2033.220 [scope of responses to RFAs].)  
 
Finally, the City submits no evidence of
undue burden or expense in responding to the RFAs. (West Pico Furniture Co. v.
Superior Court, supra, 56 Cal.2d 407, 417.)
 
The motion to compel further responses to
RFAs is granted.
 
FIs 1.1 and 17.1

 
FI No. 1.1 seeks the “name, ADDRESS,
telephone number, and relationship to you of each PERSON who prepared or
assisted in the preparation of the responses to these interrogatories.”  FI No. 17.1 asks the City to provide
information about each response to a RFA that is not an unqualified admission. The
City objected
to the RFAs on the grounds of relevance and unwarranted burden and harassment.
 
The FIs are
closely related to the RFAs and the court’s analysis is the same as set forth
for the RFAs. The motion to
compel further responses to FIs is granted.
 
Monetary Sanctions 
 
For a discovery motion, “[a] request for a sanction
shall, in the notice of motion, identify every person, party, and attorney
against whom the sanction is sought, and specify the type of sanction sought.
The notice of motion shall be supported by a memorandum of points and authorities,
and accompanied by a declaration setting forth facts supporting the amount of
any monetary sanction sought.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2023.040.)  
 
Here, in the
notices of motion, Petitioner seeks monetary sanctions against the City and its
attorneys, Richard, Watson & Gershon
and Ginetta L. Giovinco in the amounts of $5,095 for the RFP motion; $5,920 for
the RFA motion; and $2,620 for the FI motion. Petitioner submitted points and
authorities and a declaration setting forth facts supporting the amount of the
monetary sanction sought. Although Petitioner did not specify the statutes
authorizing sanctions in the notice, Petitioner did discuss such statutes in
the moving briefs. (See RFP Mot. at 10.) The City responded to the request for
sanctions, including by discussion of the relevant statutes, in the opposition
briefs. The court finds the City and its attorneys received adequate notice of
the requests for sanctions.  
 
Code of Civil
Procedure section 2023.030 authorizes the court to “impose a monetary 
sanction
ordering that one engaging in the misuse of the discovery process . . . pay the
reasonable expenses, including attorney’s fees, incurred by anyone as a result
of that conduct.” 
(Code Civ.
Proc., § 2023.030, subd. (a).) “Misuses of the discovery process include . . .
[f]ailing to respond . . . to an authorized method of discovery[,]. . .
[m]aking, without substantial justification, an unmeritorious objection [,]. .
. [m]aking an evasive response [,] . . . [or] [o]pposing, unsuccessfully and
without substantial justification, a motion to compel.” (Code Civ. Proc., §
2023.010, subds. (d), (e), (f), (h).)
 
A monetary sanction “shall” also be
imposed against the losing party on a motion to compel further responses to
discovery unless the court finds “substantial justification” for that party’s
position or other circumstances making the sanction “unjust.” (See Code Civ.
Proc., § 2033.290, subd. (d).) Substantial justification has been interpreted
to mean “justification [that] is clearly reasonable because it is well-grounded
in both law and fact.” (Doe v. United States Swimming, Inc. (2011) 200
Cal.App.4th 1424, 1434.) “Thus, [t]o avoid sanctions, the [responding party]
must show . . . [there were] reasonable grounds to believe an objection was
valid or that the answer given was adequate.” (City of Los Angeles v. Superior
Court (2017) 9 Cal.App.5th 272, 291.)
 
As discussed, the City primarily argued all of
Petitioner’s discovery is not relevant to the subject matter of this legal proceeding
because Petitioner’s counsel admitted the “City has now retroactively accepted
the application” and “the only issue that remains is attorney’s fees for having
to bring the litigation to force compliance by the City.”  (See Oppo. Sep. St. re: RFPs 3-5; see
Giovinco Decl. Exh. 2 at p. 16.) Essentially, the City contends the Civil
Discovery Act does not authorize discovery solely to support a motion for
attorney’s fees in a legal action.  (See
Opposition 7:2-4. [“Petitioner presents
no authority to support its contention that discovery is appropriate . . . to
marshal purported evidence for a fees argument.”]) The City’s position
conflicts with the clear language of Code of Civil Procedure section 2017.010
authorizing discovery for motions within a proceeding. Moreover, given the
underlying facts, Petitioner has established good cause for the discovery.
 
The court finds the City lacked
substantial justification to object to the discovery on mootness grounds or to
oppose the motions to compel for the same reason. The City has cited no
authority supporting its position Petitioner cannot pursue discovery to support
its motion for attorney’s fees. Because Petitioner informed the City it sought
the discovery to support a motion for fees pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure
section 1021.5, the City’s objection based on purported mootness is not
well-grounded in both law and fact. 
 
For the most part, the City did not
support its remaining objections to the discovery. Mootness was the primary
argument developed in opposition. Nonetheless, Petitioner did not prevail in
full on the RFP motion, which supports a reduction in the amount of sanctions
for that motion.  Further, given the overlapping
issues and relative straightforward nature of the RFA and FI motions, the court finds that Petitioner’s requests for $5,920 and $2,620 in sanctions for those motions are
excessive. (See Jacobs Decl. ¶¶ 7-12.) Based on the court’s familiarity with
this case, the legal work reasonably required on the motions, and the amount of
fees awarded for similar matters in the Los Angeles legal community, the court
exercises its discretion and awards Petitioner sanctions as follows: $2,750
($550 x 5 hours) for the RFP motion; $1,100 for the RFA motion; and $550 for
the FI motion for a total monetary sanction of $4,400 for the three motions.
The sanction award is also appropriate against the City’s attorneys. (See Kwan
Software Eng’g, Inc. v. Hennings (2020) 58 Cal.App.5th 57, 81, 85.)
 
CONCLUSION 
 
The motion to compel further responses to
RFPs is granted as to RFPs 1 through 3 only with the time restrictions
specified. If the City contends any of the emails are subject to the
attorney-client privilege or attorney work product doctrine, it shall produce a
privilege log for those emails.  
 
The motions to compel further responses
to RFAs and FIs are granted.  
 
The City and Richard, Watson & Gershon shall jointly and
severally pay monetary sanctions to Petitioner in the total amount of $4,400
for all three motions, as specified above within 30 days.
 
IT IS SO ORDERED. 
 
January 31, 2024                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ________________________________ 
Hon. Mitchell Beckloff
Judge of the Superior Court 
 


