 Case Number:  24LBCV00949    Hearing Date:   December 10, 2024    Dept:  S27 1.     Background
Facts
Plaintiff, Elmicha Cecil filed this
action against Defendant, Angela Lunt for damages arising out of an automobile
accident.  The complaint includes causes
of action for motor vehicle negligence, general negligence, violation of
Vehicle Code §20001(a), and IIED; it also contains a prayer for punitive
damages.  The prayer for punitive damages
is premised on the allegation that Defendant fled the scene of the accident
(hit and run).  
 
1.            
Demurrer to IIED Cause of Action and Motion
to Strike Prayer for Punitive Damages
a.    
Issue Presented
Plaintiff’s complaint contains a
cause of action for IIED; the cause of action arises out of the contention that
the accident was a “hit and run.” 
Plaintiff seeks punitive damages based on the alleged conduct.  Defendant demurs to the cause of action for
IIED and moves to strike the prayer for punitive damages.  As will be discussed below, the standard for
imposition of liability on an IIED cause of action is substantially similar to
the standard for imposing punitive damages. 

 
b.    
IIED
The elements of a cause of action
for intentional infliction of emotional distress are (1) outrageous conduct by
the defendant, (2) intention to cause or reckless disregard of the probability
of causing emotional distress, (3) severe emotional suffering, and (4) actual
and proximate causation of the emotional distress.  Conduct is extreme and outrageous when it
exceeds all bounds of decency usually tolerated by a decent society, and is of
a nature which is especially calculated to cause, and does cause, mental
distress.  Liability does not extend to
mere insults, indignities, threats, annoyances, petty oppressions, or other
trivialities.  Fisher v. San Pedro
Peninsula Hospital (1989) 214 Cal.App.3d 590.
 
c.    
Punitive Damages
With respect to punitive damages, where
the defendant’s wrongdoing has been intentional and deliberate, and has the
character of outrage frequently associated with crime, courts have permitted
the jury to award in the tort action “punitive” or “exemplary” damages.  Something more than the mere commission of a
tort is always required for punitive damages. There must be circumstances of
aggravation or outrage, such as spite or “malice,” or a fraudulent or evil
motive on the part of the defendant, or such a conscious and deliberate
disregard of the interests of others that his conduct may be called wilful or
wanton.  Taylor v. Superior Court (1979)
24 Cal. 3d 890, 894; Grieves v. Superior Court (1984) 157 Cal.App.3d 159, 166.
 
d.    
Joint Consideration
Because the standard for IIED and
the standard for punitive damages is substantially similar, the Court is
considering the demurrer to the IIED cause of action and the motion to strike
the prayer for punitive damages together at this time.  
 
e.    
Analysis
The complaint is based on the
allegation that the accident was a “hit and run.”  In Brooks v. E.J. Willig Truck Transp. Co.
(1953) 40 Cal.2d 669, 679, the Court held that the act of “hit and run” only
constitutes a tort if the act itself causes the plaintiff additional damages
above and beyond the damages caused by the accident that precedes the hit and
run.  For example, if a plaintiff is
struck and is seriously bleeding following the accident, the fact that the
defendant hits and runs could cause additional damage due to loss of blood,
death, etc.  If, however, the accident
causes immediate soft tissue damage, no amount of aid would reduce or minimize
the future damages, and the act of hitting and running would not give rise to
additional damages.  If the act of
hitting and running, in and of itself, does not give rise to a tort, then it
logically follows that the act cannot give rise to a claim for punitive damages
or IIED.
 
Another case that considered the
issue is Karl v. C.A. Reed Lumber Company (1969) 275 Cal.App.2d 358, 361.  Karl is in accord with Brooks, supra, in that
the Court noted, “This duty is imposed upon a driver regardless of fault, and a
violation gives rise to civil liability if it is the proximate cause of
further injury or death.”  
 
f.     
Conclusion
Plaintiff’s complaint fails to
allege that the fact of the hit and run caused her additional damages over and
above the injuries sustained in the accident itself.  The demurrer to the IIED cause of action is
therefore sustained and the motion to strike the punitive damages claim is
granted; leave to amend is granted if and only if Plaintiff can allege the fact
of the hit and run gave rise to additional damages.  
 
The motion to strike is also
granted.  Again, leave to amend is
granted if and only if Plaintiff can allege that the hit and run caused
additional damages to Plaintiff over and above the damages sustained due to the
accident itself.
 
g.     FAC/Answer
If Plaintiff wishes to amend, she
must do so within twenty days.  Defendant
must file a responsive pleading within the statutory time thereafter.  
 
If Plaintiff does not wish to
amend, she must so communicate with Defendant, in which case Defendant must
file an answer to the complaint, with the cause of action for IIED and prayer
for punitive damages deemed stricken, within thirty days of today’s hearing
date.
 
h.     Notice
Defendant is ordered to give
notice.    
 
Parties who intend to submit
on this tentative must send an email to the court at gdcdepts27@lacourt.org indicating intention to submit on the tentative
as directed by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  If a party submits on
the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must identify
the party submitting on the tentative. If any party does not submit on the
tentative, the party should make arrangements to appear remotely at the hearing
on this matter.   