 Case Number:  24LBCV00161    Hearing Date:   December 10, 2024    Dept:  S27 1.     Background
Facts
Plaintiff, Cecilia L. Wong filed
this action against Defendant, Leroy Stone for damages arising out of the
parties’ landlord-tenant relationship. 
Plaintiff’s complaint includes causes of action for:
1.     Constructive
Eviction
2.     Breach
of Contract
3.     Breach
of the Covenant of Good Faith and Fair Dealing
4.     Promissory
Estoppel
5.     Intentional
Misrepresentation
6.     Unjust
Enrichment 
7.     Breach
of the Covenant of Quiet Enjoyment
8.     Invasion
of Privacy
9.     Trespass
10.  Unlawful
Entry
11.  Harassment
12.  Retaliation
13.  Wrongful
Eviction
14.  Bane
Act
15.  Violation
of Unfair Business Practices Act
16.  Nuisance
17.  Violation
of the Tenant Protection Act
18.  Violation
of Municipal Code §8.99.020(e)
19.  Breach
of Common Law Warranty of Habitability
20.  Breach
of Statutory Warranty of Tenantability  
21.  Violation
of Civil Code §1942.4
22.  Violation
of Civil Code §1942.5
 
Notably, causes of action 1-20
appear in the caption of the complaint; causes of action 21 and 22 appear in
the body of the complaint only.  
 
Defendant filed an answer to the
complaint on 4/18/24.  
 
1.            
Motion for Judgment on the Pleadings
a.    
Causes of Action Subject to Motion
Defendant moves for judgment on the
pleadings on the 1st, 3rd through 6th, 8th
through 17th, and 21st causes of action.  
 
b.    
Initial Notes
Plaintiff timely filed opposition
papers on 11/26/24.  Any reply to the
opposition was due on or before 12/03/24. 
The Court has not received timely reply papers, and will not consider
late-filed reply papers.
 
Both parties failed to meaningfully
brief many of the issues presented by way of the motion, which necessitated
substantial research on the part of the Court. 
The Court will not, in the future, do the parties’ work for them.  The parties must meaningfully brief any and
all issues presented for determination in the future if they wish to prosecute
and defend this action.
 
c.    
First Cause of Action, Constructive
Eviction
i.             
Parties’ Positions 
Defendant argues Plaintiff cannot
state a claim for constructive eviction because she admits she moved out in
response to Defendant’s termination notice, and she did not move out in a
timely manner after complaining of any of the habitability violations that she
now contends constituted a constructive eviction.  Plaintiff opposes the motion, arguing there
can be multiple reasons to move out, and arguing she has listed various
violations that ultimately caused her to leave the property.
 
ii.            
Law Governing Constructive Eviction
Any disturbance of the tenant’s
possession by the landlord which renders the premises unfit for
occupancy for the purposes for which they were demised or which deprives the
tenant of the beneficial enjoyment of the premises, causing him to abandon
them, amounts to a constructive eviction. 
(Stoiber v. Honeychuck (1980) 101 Cal.App.3d 903, 926.)  
 
Whether the tenant abandoned within
a reasonable time is a jury question.  A
tenant wrongfully evicted may recover general damages representing the value of
his unexpired term and expenses of removal.  Moreover, if the tenant elects to sue in tort,
he may recover damages for mental pain or physical injury, and, on a proper
showing, punitive damages.  (Id.)
 
iii.           
Analysis
Plaintiff alleges, at ¶15 of her
complaint, that during her tenancy (which commenced on 2/11/17), there were
numerous problems with the property that rendered it uninhabitable.  She alleges she communicated about these
problems with Defendant, but Defendant “patched” the problems instead of
actually fixing them.  
 
Plaintiff alleges, at ¶¶25-30, that
Defendant sent an eviction letter on 1/30/23, wherein he falsely stated that he
was evicting Plaintiff because he and/or an immediate family member intended to
move into the property.  She alleges
that, on 3/29/23, Defendant forced her to leave the premises and she had no
other option but to vacate because she had not been able to enjoy the benefits
of living there.  
 
Plaintiff seems to be blurring the
line between wrongful eviction and constructive eviction.  If Defendant’s stated reason for the eviction
was false, then the eviction was wrongful. 
It was not, however, constructive. 
A constructive eviction occurs when a tenant moves out because the
conditions of the property are no longer tenantable.  As noted above, the tenant must move out
within a reasonable time in order to assert this claim.  Plaintiff herein did not move out in response
to the conditions of the property.  She
moved out in response to Defendant’s eviction notice.  
 
The motion or judgment on the
pleadings directed at the constructive eviction cause of action is granted.  Because it does not appear Plaintiff could
amend if given leave to do so, leave to amend is denied.
 
d.    
Third Cause of Action, Breach of the
Implied Covenant of Good Faith and Fair Dealing
i.             
Parties’ Positions
Defendant contends Plaintiff cannot
plead this cause of action because (a) it is entirely duplicative of her other
causes of action, and (b) she has not pled the existence of a special
relationship between herself and Defendant that would give rise to this claim.
 
Plaintiff opposes, contending she
has pled various facts showing Defendant did not act in good faith, and
contending she is permitted to plead in the alternative at the pleading stage.
 
ii.            
Special Relationship
Defendant contends Plaintiff cannot
state a claim against Defendant because the parties do not have a special
relationship.  Defendant cites authority
for the position that a special relationship must exist, but does not cite
authority for the position that landlords and tenants lack such a
relationship.  Complicating the matter,
Plaintiff does not discuss this issue at all.
 
The Court conducted independent
research on the issue and found myriad cases holding that a landlord can be
found liable to a tenant for a breach of the implied covenant of good faith and
fair dealing.  See, for example,
Fairchild v. Park (2001) 90 Cal.App.4th 919 and McClain v. Octagon
Plaza, LLC (2008) 159 Cal.App.4th 784.  
 
The Court therefore finds the
parties’ relationship does not preclude imposition of liability for breach of
the implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing.
 
iii.           
Duplicative
Defendant’s additional argument is
that the breach of the implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing cause of
action is duplicative of Plaintiff’s other causes of action.  The issue, however, is not whether the cause
of action is duplicative of some other cause of action, but rather whether it
is duplicative of the breach of contract cause of action.  
 
Outside the insurance context, a
tortious breach of contract generally may be found when: 
            (1) the
breach is accompanied by a traditional common law tort, such as fraud or
conversion;
            (2) the
means used to breach the contract are tortious, involving deceit or undue
coercion; or
            (3) one
party intentionally breaches the contract intending or knowing that such a
breach will cause severe, unmitigable harm in the form of mental anguish,
personal hardship, or substantial consequential damages.  (Erlich v. Menezes (1999) 21 Cal.4th
543.) 
 
The claim, therefore, can be
duplicative of other torts, such as fraud, but cannot be purely duplicative of
the breach of contract cause of action. 
Plaintiff herein has alleged that the breach of the parties’ contract
was accompanied by various tortious acts, and therefore the claim for breach of
the implied covenant is adequately pled. 
The motion for judgment on the pleadings directed at this cause of
action is denied.
 
e.    
Fourth Cause of Action, Promissory
Estoppel
Defendant contends Plaintiff has
failed to plead reliance in connection with her claim for promissory
estoppel.  Plaintiff contends ¶¶22 and 26
of the complaint allege reliance.  ¶22 of
the complaint alleges Landlord failed to pay relocation fees and instead
required Plaintiff to pay rent.  ¶26
alleges Landlord forced Tenant to leave the premises and she had not other
choice because she had not been able to enjoy the benefits of living there.
 
¶¶22 and 26 do not appear in the
promissory estoppel cause of action.  The
promissory estoppel cause of action is found at ¶¶57-65 of the complaint.  Plaintiff alleges Defendant made
representations that he would fix the property, but he did not.  Plaintiff alleges Defendant made
representations that he would not raise the rent more than permitted by law,
but he violated those promises. 
Plaintiff needs to amend her complaint to allege how she relied on those
representations.  The motion directed at
this cause of action is granted with leave to amend.
 
f.     
Fifth
Cause of Action, Intentional Misrepresentation
Defendant contends the fifth cause
of action for fraud lacks the requisite specificity.  The Court finds the parties’ correspondence,
attached as exhibits to the complaint, satisfies the specificity requirement.  The exhibits show what representations were
made, when, how, etc.  The Court finds
Plaintiff has adequately alleged knowledge of falsity because it was within
Defendant’s unique purview to determine whether and how to address Plaintiff’s
complaints, and if he chose not to address the complaints, as alleged, this
would necessarily be something he knew he was choosing not to do.  
 
The motion for judgment on the
pleadings directed at the intentional misrepresentation cause of action is denied.
 
g.    
Sixth Cause of Action, Unjust Enrichment
i.             
Parties’ Positions
Defendant contends unjust
enrichment is a principle underlying various other causes of action, but does
not stand alone as a cause of action. 
Defendant cites Collins v. eMachines, Inc. (2011) 202 Cal.App.4th
249, 260 to support his position that a cause of action for unjust enrichment
cannot be pled when other claims adequately seek the same remedy.  
 
Plaintiff contends California law
recognizes a claim for unjust enrichment, citing Peterson v. Cellco P’ship
(2008) 80 Cal.Rptr. 316.  
 
ii.            
Law Governing Unjust Enrichment
In California, unjust enrichment is
not recognized as an independent cause of action. Instead, it is considered a
general principle underlying various legal doctrines and remedies, synonymous
with restitution (McBride v. Boughton, 123 Cal.App.4th 379 (2004), (Rutherford
Holdings, LLC v. Plaza Del Rey, 223 Cal.App.4th 221 (2014)). Courts have
consistently held that unjust enrichment itself does not constitute a
standalone cause of action (City of Oakland v. Oakland Raiders, 83 Cal.App.5th
458 (2022)).
 
However, claims labeled as
"unjust enrichment" are often construed as quasi-contract claims
seeking restitution. For example, in  
Rutherford Holdings, LLC v. Plaza Del Rey, the court treated the unjust
enrichment claim as a quasi-contract claim for restitution (Rutherford
Holdings, LLC v. Plaza Del Rey, 223 Cal.App.4th 221 (2014)). Similarly, in
Sepanossian v. National Ready Mix Company, Inc., the court discussed unjust
enrichment in the context of restitution, emphasizing that common law
principles of restitution require a party to return a benefit when its
retention would unjustly enrich the recipient (Sepanossian v. National Ready
Mix Company, Inc., 97 Cal.App.5th 192 (2023)).
 
The elements of a claim for
restitution based on unjust enrichment are the receipt of a benefit and the
unjust retention of that benefit at the expense of another (Professional Tax
Appeal v. Kennedy-Wilson Holdings, Inc., 29 Cal.App.5th 230 (2018)), (Peterson
v. Cellco Partnership, 164 Cal.App.4th 1583 (2008))[6]. This principle is
applied to ensure that one person does not unjustly enrich themselves at the
expense of another, requiring restitution where it is just and equitable
(County of San Bernardino v. Walsh, 158 Cal.App.4th 533 (2007)).
 
In summary, while unjust enrichment
is not a cause of action in California, it serves as a foundational principle
for claims seeking restitution under quasi-contract theories.
 
iii.           
Analysis
In light of the above, the motion
for judgment on the pleadings directed at the unjust enrichment cause of action
is granted without leave to amend.  The
ruling is without prejudice to Plaintiff’s right to plead unjust enrichment as
a theory in connection with an alternative substantive cause of action.
 
h.    
Eighth Cause of Action, Invasion of
Privacy
Defendant contends Plaintiff
alleges Defendant entered the premises without her consent, but failed to
allege that there was no emergency. 
Civil Code §1954 permits entry when there is an emergency, even if there
is no consent.  Plaintiff, in opposition,
contends she properly pled that Defendant entered the property not only without
consent, but without “legal authority.” 
This seems sufficient, at the pleading stage, to encompass lack of
emergency.  The motion for judgment on
the pleadings directed at this cause of action is denied.
 
i.     
Ninth Cause of Action, Trespass and Tenth
Cause of Action, Unlawful Entry
The parties’ arguments and analysis
re: the trespass and unlawful entry causes of action are the same as the
arguments and analysis re: the invasion of privacy cause of action.  The motion directed at the ninth and tenth
causes of action is therefore also denied.
j.     
Eleventh Cause of Action, Harassment
Plaintiff’s eleventh cause of
action is premised, in part, on Defendant’s unlawful entry into her unit.  Defendant, in addition to the above
arguments, contends it is “unlikely” that a single violation of §1954 would
qualify as harassment.  Defendant
provides no authority in support of his position, and therefore the motion for
judgment on the pleadings is denied.
 
k.    
Twelfth Cause of Action, Retaliation
Defendant contends Plaintiff has
not stated a claim for retaliation because she has not pled Defendant’s motive
in causing Plaintiff to vacate involuntarily or pay increased rent.  It appears Defendant’s contention is that
Plaintiff admits she voluntarily vacated the premises.  Plaintiff’s complaint alleges she vacated the
premises based on Defendant’s false and fraudulent notice of intent to occupy
the premises.  It is up to a jury to
determine whether she left the premises voluntarily.  The motion is denied. 
 
l.     
Thirteenth Cause of Action, Wrongful
Eviction
Defendant argues, at page 9, lines
18-19 of the motion, “It is evident from the face of the pleadings that
Plaintiff vacated because Defendant, in good faith, sent her a sixty-day notice
to terminate based on a no-fault just cause reason.”  
 
Plaintiff, at ¶30, alleges
Defendant’s statement that he intended to occupy the property was false.  At the pleading stage, Plaintiff’s allegation
must be accepted as true.  The motion for
judgment on the pleadings directed at this cause of action is therefore denied.
 
m.  
Fourteenth Cause of Action, Bane Act
A cause of action under the Bane
Act requires pleading threats, intimidation, or coercion.  Defendant argues there are no allegations in
the complaint pleading that his conduct rose to that level.  Plaintiff does not address this argument in
opposition to the motion.  The motion for
judgment on the pleadings directed at the Bane Act cause of action is therefore
granted.  Leave to amend is granted if
and only if Plaintiff can plead threats, intimidation, and/or coercion.
 
n.    
Fifteenth Cause of Action, BPC §17200
Defendant contends this cause of
action fails because Plaintiff cannot seek injunctive relief under the
circumstances, and because restitution is not appropriate when there is a
remedy at law.  Plaintiff does not address
either of these arguments in her opposition papers.  She briefly states that she can seek relief
on behalf of herself and others similarly situated, but her complaint does not
seek relief on behalf of others.  The
motion for judgment on the pleadings is granted.  Leave to amend is granted if and only if
Plaintiff can plead a basis for injunctive relief and/or restitution.
 
o.    
Sixteenth Cause of Action, Nuisance
Defendant’s motion challenging the
nuisance cause of action raises issues of fact that must be determined by a
jury.  Defendant argues Plaintiff’s
allegations do not rise to the level of nuisance because Plaintiff did not
allege Defendant’s conduct was unreasonable and because she did not allege
specific enough facts showing nuisance. 
Plaintiff’s complaint, when read as a whole, alleges facts sufficient to
meet the standard for nuisance set forth in the moving papers.  The Court cannot make factual determinations
at the pleading stage.  The motion is
denied.
 
p.    
Seventeenth Cause of Action, Violation of
the Tenant Protection Act
Defendant establishes that the
attached exhibits show he did not violate the TPA.  Plaintiff does not address this argument in
opposition to the motion.  Plaintiff
argues Defendant contends the exhibits are part of the complaint when
convenient to him and not part of the complaint when not convenient to
him.  The exhibits are clearly part of
the complaint, and if they show that there was no violation of the TPA, then
the cause of action cannot stand.  The
motion for judgment on the pleadings directed at the 17th cause of
action is granted.  Leave to amend is
granted if and only if Plaintiff can plead a violation of the Act.
 
q.    
Twenty-First Cause of Action for Violation
of Civil Code §1942.4
Defendant contends Plaintiff’s 21st
cause of action is governed by either a one-year statute of limitations or a
three-year statute of limitations, and regardless of which applies, it is
time-barred.  Plaintiff contends there is
no statute of limitations for the cause of action because the legislature
crafted a penalty for a statutory violation instead of a statute of
limitations.  
 
The statute of limitations for a
violation of Civil Code §1942.4 is one year. This is based on the application
of the one-year statute of limitations for actions upon a statute for a penalty
or forfeiture, as outlined in California Code of Civil Procedure § 340(1)
(Menefee v. Ostawari (1991) 228 Cal.App.3d 239. Specifically, in Menefee, the
court held that the one-year statute of limitations began to run from the
service date of the notice terminating tenancy (Id.).  Similarly, in Sylve v. Riley, the court applied
the one-year statute of limitations to actions involving mandatory treble
damages under a rent control ordinance (Sylve v. Riley (1993) 15 Cal.App.4th 23.  Therefore, actions under §1942.4, which
involve statutory penalties, would also be subject to this one-year limitations
period.
 
Defendant clearly shows the cause
of action is barred by the statute of limitations, and Plaintiff makes no
meaningful argument to the contrary.  The
motion for judgment on the pleadings as to the 21st cause of action
is granted.  Because it does not appear
the defect could be cured, leave to amend is denied.
r.     
Conclusion
The motion is granted in part and
denied in part as set forth fully above. 
Plaintiff must file an amended complaint, with the above defects cured,
within twenty days.  Defendant must file
a responsive pleading within the statutory time thereafter.  
 
If Defendant wishes to challenge
the amended pleading, the parties must meet and confer in good faith prior to
the filing of the pleading challenge. 
The Court notes that Defense Counsel, with the moving papers, declares
that he attempted to speak to Plaintiff’s attorney, but was met with
name-calling and profanity.  Plaintiff
does not contest this account in the opposition papers.  This is unacceptable.  Plaintiff must meet and confer in good faith
and with professional demeanor.  
 
s.     Notice
Defendant is ordered to give
notice.    
 
Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must
send an email to the court at gdcdepts27@lacourt.org indicating intention to submit on the tentative
as directed by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  If a party submits on
the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must identify
the party submitting on the tentative. If any party does not submit on the
tentative, the party should make arrangements to appear remotely at the hearing
on this matter.   