  Case Number:  23LBCV01318    Hearing Date:   December 10, 2024    Dept:  S27 1.     Background
Facts
Plaintiff, Jesse Silk filed this
action against Defendants, Beach Cities Management, Consennys Property
Management, Gavin K. McCann, Pina McCann, Pacific Coast Management, Inc.,
Daniel Plumbing & Son, Inc., Cecilia Chow, and Does 1 through 110 for
damages arising out of a leak in Plaintiff’s rented condominium unit.  Plaintiff was renting the unit from its
owners, Pina and Gavin McCann.  Beach
Cities Management was hired by the McCanns to manage the unit.   The
other defendants include the upstairs unit owner, the HOA, and the
persons/entities who performed work in connection with the leak.  
 
Plaintiff’s original complaint was
filed on 7/13/23.  It includes causes of
action for breach of the implied warranty of habitability, breach of the
implied covenant of quiet enjoyment, fraud, nuisance, premises liability,
negligence, breach of contract, retaliatory eviction, wrongful eviction, IIED,
constructive eviction, and negligence per se. 
 On 1/25/24, the Court granted
Plaintiff’s motion for leave to file his operative First Amended Complaint,
which clarified his doe allegations in his pleading but made no substantive
changes to the complaint.  
 
2.     Motion
for Leave to File Second Amended Complaint
a.    
Relief Sought
Plaintiff seeks leave to (a)
clarify and expand on the allegations concerning the parties to the case and
the facts that give rise to the case, and (b) add a thirteenth cause of action
for violation of the Covid-19 Tenant Protection Act.  
 
b.     Law
Governing Leave to Amend
The court may, in furtherance of justice, and on such terms as may be
proper, allow a party to amend any pleading. 
(CCP §§473 and 576.)  Judicial
policy favors resolution of all disputed matters between the parties and,
therefore, leave to amend is generally liberally granted.  Ordinarily, the court will not consider the
validity of the proposed amended pleading in ruling on a motion for leave since
grounds for a demurrer or motion to strike are premature.  However, the court does have discretion to
deny leave to amend where a proposed amendment fails to state a valid cause of
action as a matter of law and the defect cannot be cured by further
amendment.  (California Casualty General
Ins. Co. v. Superior Court (1985) 173 Cal.App.3d 274, 281.)  
 
The application for leave to amend should be made as soon as the need
to amend is discovered.  The closer the
trial date, the stronger the showing required for leave to amend.  If the party seeking the amendment has been
dilatory, and the delay has prejudiced the opposing party, the Court has the
discretion to deny leave to amend. 
(Hirsa v. Superior Court (1981) 118 Cal.App.3d 486, 490.)  Prejudice exists where the amendment would
require delaying the trial, resulting in loss of critical evidence, or added
costs of preparation such as an increased burden of discovery.  (Magpali v. Farmers Group, Inc. (1996) 48
Cal.App.4th 471, 486-488.)
 
c.     Analysis
Plaintiff filed proof of service of
the moving papers on all parties who have appeared in the action.  No party has filed timely opposition to the
motion.  In light of the liberal standard
in favor of leave to amend, the motion is granted.
 
Plaintiff is ordered to file a
separate copy of the Second Amended Complaint within ten days.  Any defendant who wishes to file an answer to
the SAC must do so within the statutory time thereafter.  Any defendant who wishes to have its answer
to the original complaint and/or FAC deemed its answer to the SAC may opt not
to file an answer to the SAC, and those defendants’ original answers will be
sufficient to satisfy the obligation to respond to the SAC.  
            
Plaintiff ordered to give
notice.    
 
Parties who intend to submit
on this tentative must send an email to the court at gdcdepts27@lacourt.org indicating intention to submit on the tentative
as directed by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  If a party submits on
the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must identify
the party submitting on the tentative. If any party does not submit on the
tentative, the party should make arrangements to appear remotely at the hearing
on this matter.   