 Case Number:  23STCV17983    Hearing Date:   May 23, 2024    Dept:  17 Superior
Court of California
County
of Los Angeles
 
DEPARTMENT 17
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 



ANDRE
  NESBIT                            
     
    vs.
 
WALGREENS
    
 


 Case No.: 
  23STCV17983   
 
 
 
 Hearing
  Date:  May 23, 2024



 
Defendant’s
motion to have Plaintiff declared a vexatious litigant is GRANTED. Plaintiff is
directed to furnish a security of $25,000, and is subject to a prefiling order.

 
On 8/1/2023,
Plaintiff Andre Nesbit (Plaintiff) filed suit against Walgreens (Defendant),
alleging a violation of the Unruh Act.  
 
            On
3/6/2024, Defendant moved to have Plaintiff declared a vexatious litigant, and
be required to post a security. 
 
Discussion 
 
Vexatious litigant statutes were created to
counter the abuse of the court system by “persistent and obsessive
litigants.”  (Bravo v. Ismaj (2002) 99 Cal. App. 4th 211,
220-21.)  Under Code of Civil Procedure, section 391.1 through 391.6, to
counter a potential vexatious litigant, “a defendant may stay pending
litigation by moving to require a vexatious litigant to furnish security if the
court determines ‘there is not a reasonable probability’ the plaintiff will
prevail.  Failure to produce the ordered security results in dismissal of
the litigation in favor of the defendant.”  (Id. at 221; CCP
§§ 391.1, 391.4.) 
 
Under Code of Civil Procedure, section 391.1, for
the court to grant a motion for requiring security, a defendant is required to
show (1) that the plaintiff is a vexatious litigant, and (2) “that there is not
a reasonable probability that he¿or she¿will
prevail in the litigation against the moving defendant.”  (CCP §
391.1.)  Under section 391, to show that a plaintiff is vexatious, the
plaintiff needs to be either of the following types of vexatious
litigants:  
 
(1) A vexatious litigant is a person who, in the
immediately preceding 7 years “has commenced, prosecuted, or maintained” in
propria persona at least five litigations, other than in a small claims court,
that have been (a) finally determined
adversely to the person, or (b) unjustifiably permitted to remain pending at
least 2 years without having been brought to trial or hearing. 
 
(2) A vexatious litigant is a person who,
“after a litigation has been finally determined against the person, repeatedly
relitigates or attempts to relitigate in propria persona either (a) the
validity of the determination against the same defendant or defendants as to
whom the litigation was finally determined, or (b) the cause of action, claim,
controversy, or any of the issues of fact or law, determined or concluded by
the final determination against the same defendant or defendants as to whom the
litigation was finally determined.” 
 
(3)
A vexatious litigant is a person who, “in any litigation while acting in propria
persona, repeatedly files unmeritorious motions, pleadings, or other papers,
conducts unnecessary discovery, or engages in other tactics that are frivolous
or solely intended to cause unnecessary delay.” 
 
(4)
A vexatious litigant is a person who, “has previously been declared to be a
vexatious litigant by any state or federal court of record in any action or
proceeding based upon the same or substantially similar facts, transaction, or
occurrence.” 
 
“Litigation”
means any civil action or proceeding, commenced, maintained or pending in any
state or federal court. (CCP § 391.) 
 
For the
purposes of section 391, an action has been “commenced, prosecuted, or
maintained” in the last seven years if the case is maintained during that
period in any manner, even if it was initiated more than seven years before
filing of motion to declare plaintiff vexatious litigant. (Stolz v. Bank of
America (1993) 19 Cal.Rptr.2d 19 [counting a case toward the
five-litigation total that persisted for 40 days into the seven-year time
frame.) An action is considered “maintained” until the Court’s jurisdiction
over it is lost. (McColm v. Westwood Park Assn. (1998) 73 Cal.Rptr.2d
288.) A litigation is “adversely determined” within the meaning of the
vexatious litigant law if the plaintiff does not win the action or proceeding
the he or she began, including cases that are voluntarily dismissed by a
plaintiff. (Garcia v. Lacey (2014) 180 Cal.Rptr.3d 45, 231; Tokerud
v. Capital Bank Sacramento (1995) 38 Cal.App.4th 775, at p. 779.)
 
            Defendant
argues that Plaintiff meets the definition of a vexatious litigant given that
the following cases have been filed by Plaintiff and disposed of adversely in
the past seven years:
 
-        
(1) Andre Nesbit v. Domino’s Pizza,
LLC, et al., United States District Court, Central District of California,
Case No. 2:23cv1280. Plaintiff filed suit on February 21, 2023, against a
Domino’s Pizza and one of its employees for defamation per se, intentional
infliction of emotional distress, and an issuance for a writ of injunction
stemming from an unkind interaction with a Domino’s Pizza employee on February
17, 2023. On March 10, 2023, the court denied Plaintiff’s request to proceed in
forma pauperis, and dismissed the case because it lacked subject matter
jurisdiction, failed to state a claim, and was frivolous or malicious. (RJN
Exhibits. 1.1- 1.3.)
 
-        
(2) Andre Nesbit v. Speedway, LLC,
et al., United States District Court, Central District of California, Case
No. 2:23cv912. Plaintiff filed this case against Speedway and the Indianapolis
Police Department on February 7, 2023, claiming that he was unlawfully asked to
leave the Speedway’s premises while using an ATM, and thereafter arrested. On
March 23, 2023, the court dismissed the case because Plaintiff failed to amend
his complaint properly to establish diversity jurisdiction, despite being given
the opportunity to amend. The court revoked Plaintiff’s in forma pauperis
status. Still, Plaintiff attempted to have the court reconsider his case. His
request for reconsideration was denied. (RJN Exhibits 2.1-2.5)
 
-        
(3) Andre Nesbit v. KBP Foods,
Illinois Circuit Court, Cook County, Case No. 2018-M6 000121. Plaintiff filed
this complaint on January 5, 2018. He alleges that he was unable to terminate
employees he worked with that were violating the law. Instead, Plaintiff was
terminated. Defendant KBP filed a motion to dismiss. Plaintiff failed to attend
multiple status hearings. On July 9, 2018, the case was dismissed for want of
prosecution. On September 17, 2018, the case was dismissed with prejudice. (RJN
Exhibits 3.1-3.4.)
 
-        
(4) Andre Nesbit v. Frederick H.
Bates, Illinois Circuit Court for Cook County, Case No 2020-L0005033. On
April 27, 2020, Plaintiff filed suit against Judge Frederick H. Bates, for
negligence arising from a domestic case which had unfavorable results to
Plaintiff. On October 5, 2020, the Court dismissed the case administratively
because Plaintiff failed to pay filing fees after his fee waiver request was denied.
(RJN Exhibits 4.1-4.3.)
 
-        
(5) Andre Nesbit v. Richton Park
Police Department, Illinois Circuit Court for Cook County, Case No.
2019-CH-03170. On March 11, 2019, Plaintiff filed a petition for Writ of
Mandamus against Richton Park Police Department for failing to acknowledge his
complaints with respect to another individual. The case was dismissed on July
9, 2019, for want of prosecution. (RJN Exhibits. 5.1-5.3)
 
-        
(6) Andre Nesbit v. Progressive
Insurance, Illinois Circuit Court for Cook County, Case No. 20186000079.
Plaintiff filed suit against Progressive Insurance on January 4, 2018, for
failing to cover damage to his vehicle. The case was dismissed on March 12,
2018, for want of prosecution. Plaintiff filed a motion to reinstate the case,
claiming he missed his appearance due to work. However, on March 29, 2018,
Plaintiff failed to appear again, and his motion to reinstate the case was
stricken. (RJN Exhibits 6.1-6.5.)
 
-        
(7) Andre Nesbit v. Cook County, et
al., Central District of California, Case No 2:21cv05320. On June 30, 2021,
Plaintiff filed suit against Cook County, Gray Law, and Judge Frederick Bates
for personal injury, fraud and a “writ of certiorari.” Magistrate Judge Donahue
ruled that the Complaint failed to plead any facts stating a cognizable claim
or facts that would establish jurisdiction. Judge Scarsi accordingly denied
Plaintiff’s request to file in forma pauperis and dismissed the case. (RJN
Exhibits 7.1-7.4.)
 
-        
(8) Andre Nesbit v. Nya Prude and
Judge Frederick Bates, Illinois Circuit Court for Cook County, Case No.
2018CH11206. On September 5, 2018, Plaintiff filed a petition for a writ of
mandamus against Ms. Prude and Judge Bates, seeking an order vacating prior
orders of Judge Bates in an underlying family case involving Ms. Prude. On
September 10, 2019, he was given permission to file an amended complaint. No
amended complaint was filed, and the case was dismissed with prejudice on
October 10, 2019. (RJN Exhibits. 8.1-8.6.)
 
-        
(9) Andre Nesbit v. FF Firearms,
Superior Court of California for the County of Los Angeles, Case No.
23STCV1949. Plaintiff filed this complaint on May 26, 2023, alleging that on
May 25, 2023, he attempted to pick up a firearm and was informed that no
waiting period applied, and that he would not be receiving a refund. Defendant
filed a demurrer and motion to strike. The matter was taken under submission
with defense counsel filing a letter referencing Plaintiff’s extensive
litigation history. The court sustained the demurrer and granted the motion to
strike. The entire action was dismissed without leave to amend. (RJN Exhibits.
9.1-9.3.)
 
Defendant
also submitted at least eight additional cases which Plaintiff has prosecuted
or is prosecuting, in pro per, in order to support his tendency for meritless
and frivolous litigations. (See Motion, 11:18-12:17.) 
 
In
opposition, Plaintiff argues that Defendant has not shown that all of these
cases were brought by him, and argues that the FF Firearms case is
currently pending. 
 
However,
Plaintiff’s opposition does not deny that these cases were, in fact, brought by
him, nor does he show why any of the nine cases set forth above in addition to FF
Firearms do not or should not constitute a “final determination” for
purposes of CCP section 291.  Section 291
requires only five litigations to have been prosecuted by the pro per
plaintiff. Plaintiff did not submit any substantive analysis to show that the
Court should not consider those cases finally determined.  Moreover, as Defendant notes, the above
cases indicated that: 
 
Plaintiff
repeatedly files complaints only to ignore his responsibilities under the law,
resulting in cases being dismissed. (RJN Exhibits 3.1-3.4, 5.1-5.3, 6.1-6.5.)
The one-time Plaintiff filed a motion to have his case reinstated, he failed to
appear at his own hearing and his case was again dismissed. (RJN Exhibits
6.1-6.5.) He has been given opportunities to cure defects in his pleadings
multiple times (see e.g., RJN Exhibits 2.1-2.5, 6.1- 6.5) yet he fails to
comply. Plaintiff has filed suit against Judge Bates twice and Judge Forti at
least once (RJN Exhibits 4.1-4.3, 7.1- 7.4) in frivolous attempts to relitigate
issues in underlying family cases which they oversaw.
 
            (Motion,
13: 25-14:4.) 
 
The
Court finds that Plaintiff satisfies the definition of “a person who, in
the immediately preceding 7 years “has commenced, prosecuted, or maintained” in
propria persona at least five litigations, other than in a small claims court,
that have been (a) finally determined adversely to the person….”
(CCP § 391, subdivision (1).)
 
Accordingly,
the Court turns to whether or not Plaintiff has a reasonable probability of
success. 
 
After
review, the Court determines that he does not. 
 
In
the action against Defendant here, Plaintiff alleges a violation of the Unruh
Act, Civil Code, Section 51. In order to prove a civil rights violation under
the Unruh Act Plaintiff must prove that: (1) Defendant denied Plaintiff full
and equal services; (2) a substantial motivating factor for Defendant’s conduct
was its perception of Plaintiff’s actionable characteristic, (3) that Plaintiff
was harmed; and (4) Defendant’s conduct was a substantial factor in causing
Plaintiff’s harm. (CACI 3060.)
 
Plaintiff’s
also asserts in his Complaint a violation of Los Angeles City Ordinance 51.03.
This is essentially a City Ordinance equivalent of the Unruh Act. It states in
relevant part:
 
No person
shall discriminate against another person in … commerce, because of that
person’s actual or perceived race, color, ethnicity, creed, age, national
origin, religion, citizenship status, gender, gender identity or expression,
sexual orientation, disability, medical condition, genetic information, marital
status, partnership status, employment status, income status, military status or
veteran status.
 
            Here, Defendant submitted evidence
to show that:
 
Plaintiff
went to a Walgreen Co., store in Downtown Los Angeles. While seeking to add
cash onto a cash card, Plaintiff was asked by a Walgreen employee whether he
understood that, once the transaction was complete, he could not return the
card for cash, as the cashier was required to ask of all such patrons.
Plaintiff opted not to respond. This required the Walgreen cashier to repeat
the inquiry. Mr. Nesbit assumes and concludes that he was being asked more than
once to embarrass and harass him because he is “…black and a man.” There is
absolutely no evidence of any racial motivation in the question. Both the
Nesbit video and the video by the security guard, Mr. Ramirez, show multiple African
American customers walking in and out of the store. There is absolutely no
evidence of any racial animus.
 
Mr. Nesbit
claims he was assaulted by a security guard when he attempted to return to the
store. Plaintiff’s own video demonstrates that it was Plaintiff who caused the
contact. He walked forward and would have walked into the security guard but
for Mr. Ramirez putting up his hand. The videos show that Plaintiff was out of
control, threatening, angry and making racist comments toward the security
guard. The undisputed evidence shows that Mr. Nesbit was walking toward the
security guard and Mr. Ramirez raised his hand in self-defense. No reasonable
jury could find for Mr. Nesbit on the battery claim. Furthermore, it is
undisputed that Mr. Ramirez is not a Walgreen Co. employee. He works for an
independent third-party contractor. There is no evidence that would impose
liability against Walgreen Co. for the actions of a non-employee third party
contractor.
 
            (Motion,
16:7-28; See Miretsky Decl.) 
 
            In
opposition, Plaintiff advances no substantive response. Rather, Plaintiff
provides only a generic recitation of legal authority:
 
A violation
of a statute/ordinance gives rise to a claim by the legal principle Ubi Jus Ibi
Remedium: where there is a right there is a remedy, for these
ordinances/statutes have an implied private right to action, Texas Pacific
Ry. Co. v. Rigsby, 241 U.S. 33, 36 S. Ct. 482 (1916). 
 
By the
Doctrine of Negligence Per Se, the Plaintiff applies this legal principle, Jordan
v. City of Philadelphia, 66 F. Supp. 2d 638 (E.D. Pa. 1999); Capolungo
v. Bondi (1986) 179 Cal.App.3d 346 [sic]
 
Though this
is a Federal Opinion, the application of this “Controlling Law” is mandated by
Article VI of the U.S. Constitution: “This Constitution, and the Laws of the
United States which shall be made in Pursuance thereof; and all Treaties made,
or which shall be made, under the Authority of the United States, shall be the
supreme Law of the Land; and the Judges in every State shall be bound thereby,
any Thing in the Constitution or Laws of any state to the Contrary
notwithstanding.” 
 
The
Defendant’s violation of Article 16, Chapter 4, SEC. 51.03 of Los Angeles Civil
Rights Ordinance and CIVIL CODE - Section 51 (b), as stated on the Plaintiff’s
complaint, are a cause action. The Doctrine of Negligence Per Se, as stated in
the Plaintiff’s complaint, imposes liability. 
            
            (Opp.,
7: 2-28.)
 
            As
such, Plaintiff has not submitted any evidence to show a reasonable possibility
of prevailing on the merits. 
 
A defendant
may move for an order requiring plaintiff to furnish security on the grounds
that the plaintiff is a vexatious litigant and has no reasonable probability of
prevailing against the moving party. (CCP § 391.1) If the court finds in the
defendant’s favor on these points, it orders the plaintiff to furnish security
in an amount fixed by the court. (CCP §391.3(a). Failure to provide security is
grounds for dismissal. (CCP §391.4.)
 
CCP section
391 defines “security” as an undertaking to assure payment, to the party for
whose benefit the undertaking is required to be furnished of the party’s
reasonable expenses, including attorney’s fees and costs, incurred in
connection with a litigation instituted by a vexatious litigant.           
 
The Court grants
Defendant’s request to furnish a security of $25,000, and issues a prefiling
order. 
 
It is so ordered. 
 
Dated:  May   
, 2024
                                                                                                                                                           
   Hon. Jon R.
Takasugi
   Judge of the
Superior Court
 
 
 
Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must
send an email to the court at smcdept17@lacourt.org
by 4 p.m. the day prior as directed by the instructions provided on the court
website at www.lacourt.org.  If a party submits
on the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must
identify the party submitting on the tentative. 
If all parties to a motion submit, the court will adopt this
tentative as the final order.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  For more information, please contact the court clerk at (213)
633-0517.  
 
 Superior
Court of California
County
of Los Angeles
 
DEPARTMENT 17
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 



ANDRE
  NESBIT                            
     
    vs.
 
WALGREENS
    
 


 Case No.: 
  23STCV17983   
 
 
 
 Hearing
  Date:  May 23, 2024



 
 
Defendant’s
motion to compel further responses to its Special Interrogatories is GRANTED.
Plaintiff is ordered to serve Code-compliant verified responses within 10 days
of entry of this order. Plaintiff is sanctioned $700.00 payable within 30 days.
 
Defendant’s
motions to compel further responses to its Form Interrogatories is GRANTED.
Plaintiff is ordered to serve Code-compliant verified responses within 10 days
of entry of this order. Plaintiff is sanctioned $700.00 payable within 30 days.
 
Defendant’s
motions to compel further responses to its Requests for Production is GRANTED.
Plaintiff is ordered to serve Code-compliant verified responses within 10 days
of entry of this order. Plaintiff is sanctioned $700.00 payable within 30 days.
 
 
On 8/1/2023,
Plaintiff Andre Nesbit (Plaintiff) filed suit against Walgreens, alleging a
violation of the Unruh Act.  
 
            On
2/5/2024, Defendant filed a motion to compel further responses from Plaintiff
to its Special Interrogatories. Defendant seeks monetary sanctions in
connection to its motion.
 
            On
2/5/2024, Defendant filed motions to compel further responses from Plaintiff to
its Form Interrogatories. Defendant seeks monetary sanctions in connection to
its motions. 
 
            On
2/5/2024, Defendant filed motions to compel further responses from Plaintiff to
its Requests for Production. Defendant seeks monetary sanctions in connection
to its motions.
 
Discussion 
 
I.                  
Special
Interrogatories 
 
Defendant
seeks further discovery responses from Plaintiff to: (1) Special
Interrogatories, Set One, Interrogatories Nos. 1-4, 23 and 24. 
 
In
opposition, Plaintiff indicated that he provided further responses on
2/26/2024.
 
However, in
reply, Defendant indicates that no responses were ever received. Rather, the
2/26 response was apparently a 52-page document filed with the Court which was
composed of Defendant’s previously served/filed Separate Statements with
additional information included in text on the responsive portion of the
Separate Statements. Such a response was not verified, and is clearly not Code-compliant.
 
Pro per
plaintiffs are held to the same standard as licensed attorneys. Plaintiff is
ordered to serve Code-compliant verified responses within 10 days of entry of
this order. 
 
Based on the
foregoing, Defendant’s motion to compel further responses is granted. Plaintiff
is sanctioned $700.00. ($350/hr x 2 hr.) 
 
II.              
Form
Interrogatories 
 
Defendant
seeks further discovery responses from Plaintiff to: Form Interrogatories, Set
One, Interrogatory Nos. 6.2, 6.3, 9.1, 9.2, 14.1 and 14.2. 
 
            In
opposition, Plaintiff indicated that he provided further responses on
2/26/2024. However, the responses were clearly not Code-compliant:
 
On
February 22, 2024, Plaintiff served his “Further Responses,” which were
unverified and failed to comply with the Code in format or substance. The
“Further Responses” consisted of catch-all short answers which did not attempt
to respond to the entirety of the interrogatory it corresponds with. Further,
the “Further Responses” were apparently added onto the Defendant Walgreen Co.’s
own separate statement by use of a word processing editor.
 
(Reply,
3: 9-13.) 
 
Based on the
foregoing, Defendant’s motion to compel further responses is granted. Plaintiff
is sanctioned $700.00. ($350/hr x 2 hr.) 
 
 
III.           
Requests for Production
(RFPs) 
 
Defendant
seeks further discovery responses from Plaintiff to: RFP Set One, Nos. 5, 7-8,
and 17. Defendant also seeks initial responses to RFP Set One, Nos. 1-5, 6,
9-16, 18-26.
 
In
opposition, Plaintiff indicated that he provided further responses on
2/26/2024. However, in reply, Defendants showed that Plaintiff’s responses were
clearly not Code-Compliant and were unverified. (See Reply, 3:12-17.)  
 
Based on the
foregoing, Defendant’s motion to compel further responses is granted. Plaintiff
is sanctioned $700.00. ($350/hr x 2 hr.) 
 
 
It is so ordered. 
 
Dated:  May   
, 2024
                                                                                                                                                           
   Hon. Jon R.
Takasugi
   Judge of the
Superior Court
 
 
 
Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must
send an email to the court at smcdept17@lacourt.org
by 4 p.m. the day prior as directed by the instructions provided on the court
website at www.lacourt.org.  If a party submits
on the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must
identify the party submitting on the tentative. 
If all parties to a motion submit, the court will adopt this tentative
as the final order.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  For more information, please contact the court clerk at (213)
633-0517.  
 
 
 
            
 