 Case Number:  21STCV38920    Hearing Date:   April 3, 2024    Dept:  28 Having
considered the moving papers, the Court rules as follows. 
BACKGROUND 
On
October 21, 2021, Plaintiffs Carlos Galvez and Guadalupe Lopez (“Plaintiffs”)
filed this action against Defendants Luis Enrique Ordaz, Martin Olvera, Sofia
Olvera, Erika Munoz Conde, and Does 1-50 for negligence. 
On
March 8, 2023, Defendants Martin Olvera and Sofia Olvera filed answers. 
On
March 28, 2023, Defendants Luis Enrique Ordaz and Erika Munoz Conde (“Moving
Defendants”) filed an answer and a cross-complaint against Cross-Defendants
Carlos Galvez and Roes 1-20 for indemnity and contribution. 
On
December 7, 2023, the Court granted Plaintiffs’ counsel’s motion to be relieved
as counsel. 
On
January 29, 2024, Moving Defendants filed a motion for terminating, issue,
evidentiary, and monetary sanctions to be heard on April 3, 2024.  Plaintiffs have not filed an opposition. 
The
trial is currently set for May 16, 2024. 
PARTIES’ REQUESTS 
Moving
Defendants ask the Court to issue terminating, issue, evidentiary, and monetary
sanctions against Plaintiffs. 
LEGAL STANDARD 
Code
of Civil Procedure section 2023.030 provides in part: 
“To the extent authorized by the chapter governing any
particular discovery method or any other provision of this title, the court,
after notice to any affected party, person, or attorney, and after opportunity
for hearing, may impose the following sanctions against anyone engaging in
conduct that is a misuse of the discovery process: 
“(a) The court may impose a monetary sanction ordering
that one engaging in the misuse of the discovery process, or any attorney
advising that conduct, or both pay the reasonable expenses, including
attorney’s fees, incurred by anyone as a result of that conduct. The court may
also impose this sanction on one unsuccessfully asserting that another has
engaged in the misuse of the discovery process, or on any attorney who advised
that assertion, or on both. If a monetary sanction is authorized by any
provision of this title, the court shall impose that sanction unless it finds
that the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or
that other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust. 
“(b) The court may impose an
issue sanction ordering that designated facts shall be taken as established in
the action in accordance with the claim of the party adversely affected by the
misuse of the discovery process. The court may also impose an issue sanction by
an order prohibiting any party engaging in the misuse of the discovery process
from supporting or opposing designated claims or defenses. 
“(c) The
court may impose an evidence sanction by an order prohibiting any party
engaging in the misuse of the discovery process from introducing designated
matters in evidence. 
“(d) The court may impose a terminating sanction by
one of the following orders: 
“(1) An order striking out the pleadings or parts of
the pleadings of any party engaging in the misuse of the discovery process. 
“(2) An order staying further proceedings by that
party until an order for discovery is obeyed. 
“(3) An order dismissing the action, or any part of
the action, of that party. 
“(4) An order rendering a judgment by default against
that party. 
“(e) The court may impose a contempt sanction by an
order treating the misuse of the discovery process as a contempt of court. 
“(f) (1) Notwithstanding subdivision (a), or any other
section of this title, absent exceptional circumstances, the court shall not
impose sanctions on a party or any attorney of a party for failure to provide
electronically stored information that has been lost, damaged, altered, or
overwritten as the result of the routine, good faith operation of an electronic
information system. 
“(2) This subdivision shall not be construed to alter
any obligation to preserve discoverable information. 
(Code
Civ. Proc., § 2023.030.) 
          Code of Civil Procedure section 2031.300, subdivision (c),
provides in part: 
“If
a party . . . fails to obey [an] order [under Code of Civil Procedure section
2031.300, subdivision (b)] compelling a response [to a demand for inspection,
copying, testing, or sampling], the court may make those orders that are just,
including the imposition of an issue sanction, an evidence sanction, or a
terminating sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010). In
lieu of or in addition to this sanction, the court may impose a monetary
sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010).” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.300,
subd. (c).)       
Code
of Civil Procedure section 2030.290, subdivision (c), provides in part: 
“If
a party then fails to obey an order [under Code of Civil Procedure section
2030.290, subdivision (b)] compelling answers [to interrogatories], the court
may make those orders that are just, including the imposition of an issue
sanction, an evidence sanction, or a terminating sanction under Chapter 7
(commencing with Section 2023.010). In lieu of or in addition to that sanction,
the court may impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with
Section 2023.010).” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.290, subd. (c).) 
A
violation of a discovery order supports the imposition of terminating
sanctions. (Collison & Kaplan v. Hartunian (1994) 21 Cal.App.4th
1611, 1620.) Terminating sanctions are appropriate when a party persists in
disobeying the court's orders. (Deyo v. Kilbourne (1978) 84 Cal.App.3d
771, 795-796 (Deyo).) 
A
terminating sanction is a "drastic measure which should be employed with
caution." (Deyo, supra, 84 Cal.App.3d at p. 793.) "A
decision to order terminating sanctions should not be made lightly. But where a
violation is willful, preceded by a history of abuse, and the evidence shows
that less severe sanctions would not produce compliance with the discovery
rules, the trial court is justified in imposing the ultimate sanction." (Mileikowsky
v. Tenet Healthsystem (2005) 128 Cal.App.4th 262, 279-280.)   
DISCUSSION 
A.   Service 
The
proof of service attached to Moving Defendants’ motion states that Moving Defendants
served the motion “electronically . . . to the electronic mail address set
forth below . . . .”  However, the
service list on the following page does not include electronic mail addresses
for Plaintiffs.  The Court therefore
denies the motion for lack of proof of proper service. 
B.   Sanctions 
On
December 26, 2023, the Court granted Moving Defendants’ motion to compel
Plaintiffs’ response to demand for production (set one) and ordered Plaintiffs
to provide verified, code-compliant responses to the demand for production and
produce the documents, electronically stored information, and/or other things
requested without objections by January 25, 2024.  In addition, the Court granted Moving Defendants’
motions to compel Plaintiffs’ responses to special interrogatories (set one)
and form interrogatories (set one) and ordered Plaintiffs to provide verified
code-compliant responses to the special and form interrogatories without
objections by January 25, 2024.  The
Court also granted Moving Defendants’ request for sanctions and ordered Plaintiffs
to pay Moving Defendants $880.00 by January 25, 2024. 
Plaintiffs
did not comply with the Court’s December 26, 2023 order.  Moving Defendants now ask the Court to impose
terminating and monetary sanctions on Plaintiffs and dismiss their case.  In the alternative, Moving Defendants ask the
Court to impose “appropriate issue and evidentiary sanctions . . . precluding
plaintiff[s] from presenting any evidence, including testimony on any of the
matters addressed by the unanswered discovery . . . .”  (Motion p. 5.) 
Even
if Moving Defendants had properly served their motion, the Court would deny
their request for terminating sanctions. 
Plaintiffs have violated one discovery order.  Moving Defendants have not shown
that less severe sanctions would be ineffective in producing compliance with
the discovery rules. 
Moving Defendants have not provided sufficient information to support
their alternative request for issue or evidentiary sanctions.  They do not specify the issue sanctions they
request (see Code Civ. Proc., § 2023.030, subd. (b)) or identify the evidence
they wish the Court to exclude (see Code Civ. Proc., § 2023.030, subd. (c)).  An order granting Moving Defendants' request to exclude "any evidence" (Motion p. 5) would be a terminating sanction, which the Court has concluded is not appropriate.   
CONCLUSION 
The
Court DENIES without prejudice the motion for
terminating, issue, evidentiary, and monetary sanctions filed by Defendants Luis Enrique Ordaz and Erika
Munoz Conde. 
Moving
parties are ordered to give notice of this ruling. 
Moving
parties are ordered to file a proof of service of this ruling with the Court
within five days.