 Case Number:  21STCV47476    Hearing Date:   April 3, 2024    Dept:  28 Having
considered the moving, opposition, and reply papers, the Court rules as
follows. 
BACKGROUND 
On
December 30, 2021, Plaintiff Pegah Keshavarz (“Plaintiff”) filed this action
against Defendants State to State Logistics, Inc. (“State”) and Does 1-100 for
negligence. 
On
September 14, 2023, Plaintiff amended the complaint to include Defendant Dagan Vaismarder (“Defendant”) as Doe 1. 
On
February 5, 2024, Defendant filed a demurrer to be heard on April 3, 2024. On
March 20, 2024, Plaintiff filed an opposition. On March 27, 2024, Defendant
filed a reply. 
No
trial date is currently scheduled. 
PARTIES’ REQUESTS 
Defendant
asks the Court to sustain the demurrer. 
Plaintiff
asks the Court to overrule the demurrer. 
LEGAL STANDARD 
Code
of Civil Procedure section 430.10 provides in part: 
“The party against whom a complaint or cross-complaint
has been filed may object, by demurrer or answer as provided in Section 430.30,
to the pleading on any one or more of the following grounds: 
* * *
“(e) The pleading does not state facts sufficient to
constitute a cause of action. 
“(f) The pleading is uncertain. As used in this
subdivision, ‘uncertain’ includes ambiguous and unintelligible. 
“(g)  In an
action founded upon a contract, it cannot be ascertained from the pleading
whether the contract is written, is oral, or is implied by conduct. . . .” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10,
subds. (e), (f), (g).) 
In a
demurrer proceeding, the defects must be apparent on the face of the pleading
or by judicial notice. (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.30, subd. (a) [“When any ground
for objection to a complaint, cross-complaint, or answer appears on the face
thereof, or from any matter of which the court is required to or may take
judicial notice, the objection on that ground may be taken by a demurrer to the
pleading”].) 
“For
the purpose of testing the sufficiency of the cause of action, the demurrer
admits the truth of all material facts properly pleaded (i.e., all ultimate
facts alleged, but not conclusions, deductions, or conclusions of facts or
law).”  (L. Edmon and C. Karnow, Cal.
Practice Guide: Civil Procedure Before Trial (Rutter 2023) ¶ 7:43, p. 7(l)-25
(Cal. Practice Guide), emphasis omitted.) 
DISCUSSION 
A.   Complaint 
The
complaint alleges the following: 
On
or about June of 2020, Plaintiff contracted with State to have State pick up
certain personal and professional household and office furnishing and goods
from Plaintiff for delivery to a location in San Diego.  On or about June 24, 2020, State picked up
certain personal and professional household and office furnishing and goods
from Plaintiff for delivery to Plaintiff at a location in San Diego. 
On
July 9, 2021, State delivered only a few of the goods to Plaintiff. A large
portion of the goods were never delivered to Plaintiff. The portion that was delivered
were delivered in a damaged condition in that numerous items of Plaintiff’s
property were broken or otherwise seriously damaged. 
Defendants
were negligent because they failed to perform their duty as a moving company to
safeguard and protect Plaintiff’s property from damage and/or loss and failed
to foresee the probable danger which may be caused by Defendants’ failure to do
so. 
As
the result of Defendants’ negligence, Plaintiff’s merchandise was damaged
and/or lost and Plaintiff’s business was interrupted.  As the result of Defendants’ negligence and
the resulting loss and damage to Plaintiff’s property, “Plaintiff was injured
in her emotional health, strength and activity, sustaining, injury to her body
and shock and injury to her nervous system and person, and, among others,
sustained personal injuries.” 
B.   The demurrer 
Defendant
argues that the complaint is vague because it does not specify (1) when the parties
entered into the contract, (2) the contract’s terms, or (3) Defendant's relationship to State or to Plaintiff.  In addition, Defendant argues, the complaint
is subject to demurrer because it “cannot be ascertained from the pleading
whether the contract is written, is oral, or is implied by conduct.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subd. (g).)  Defendant also appears to argue that a bill
of lading limits Defendant’s liability.   C.   Analysis 
Defendant's arguments are misplaced because Plaintiff has asserted a claim for negligence,
not for breach of contract.  Defendant does not contend that a negligence claim or damages for negligence are unavailable based on the facts Plaintiff alleges in the complaint.  In addition,
on a demurrer, the Court considers only the material facts alleged in the
complaint and matters subject to judicial notice. 
In addition, after filing the complaint Plaintiff
named Defendant as Doe 1.  The complaint alleged that Does 1-50 were “negligently,
carelessly, recklessly, unlawfully, tortuously, wantonly, wrongfully,
illegally, or in some other actionable matter, responsible for the events and
happenings hereinafter referred to, and thereby negligently, carelessly,
recklessly, unlawfully, tortuously, wantonly, wrongfully, and illegally
proximately caused the hereinafter described injuries and damages to Plaintiff.”  The complaint also alleged that all of the
defendants “were agents, servants, employees and joint venturers of each other,
and were, as such, acting within the course, scope and authority of said
agency, employment and joint venture, and that each and every Defendant, as
aforesaid, when acting as a principal, was negligent in the selection and
hiring of each and every Defendant as an agent, employee, contractor,
subcontractor and joint venture, and that each Defendant, by and through its
officers, officials, directors, managers, supervisors and/or managing agents,
authorized, ratified and otherwise approved the acts of the remaining
Defendants, and that said officers, directors, or managing agents participated
in said acts with the Defendants . . . .”  These allegations are sufficient to withstand a demurrer for vagueness concerning Defendant's relationship to State and to Plaintiff. 
The
Court overrules the demurrer. 
CONCLUSION 
The
Court OVERRULES Defendant Dagan
Vaismarder’s demurrer to the complaint filed by Plaintiff Pegah Keshavarz. 
Moving
party is ordered to give notice of this ruling. 
Moving
party is ordered to file the proof of service of this ruling with the Court
within five days.