  Case Number:  20STCV49367    Hearing Date:   October 30, 2023    Dept:  52 Applications of (1) Nicole  Mary Catherine Arata and (2) Sara Catherine Clark to Appear as Counsel Pro  Hac Vice  The applications of attorneys  Nicole Mary Catherine Arata and Sara Catherine Clark for admission as counsel pro  hac vice on behalf of plaintiff/cross-defendant Santos Laguna, S.A. de C.V.  are granted.Plaintiff Santos Laguna,  S.A. de C.V.’s Motion for Clarification             Plaintiff  Santos Laguna, S.A. de C.V. moves for “clarification” of the court’s rulings on  (a) the parties’ motions for summary judgment and summary adjudication and on (b)  plaintiff’s motion for leave to file a second amended complaint.  Plaintiff argues it seeks clarification “to  establish a clear record for appeal.”   (Motion, p. 3.)  Clarifying the  court’s orders is not necessary for that purpose because an appellate court “ ‘reviews  de novo the trial court’s decision to grant summary judgment and [is] not bound  by the trial court’s stated reasons or rationales.’ ”  (Atalla v. Rite Aid Corp. (2023) 89  Cal.App.5th 294, 307.)  In other words,  the Court of Appeal reviews whether the trial court’s order was correct and not  its legal reasoning.  (Baines v.  Moores (2009) 172 Cal.App.4th 445, 478.)   The Court of Appeal will thus affirm a trial court order when the lower  court reaches the correct result for the wrong reason.  (See Washington v. Nelson (1979) 100  Cal.App.3d 47, 50 [“We hold the trial court reached a correct result, although  by the wrong process of reasoning”].)  Accordingly,  a further explanation or “clarification” by the court of its order would serve  no purpose.  Plaintiff has made its  record for appeal. In its order on defendants’ motion for summary  judgment, the court stated: “The undisputed facts establish that FSLA’s  assignment to Grupo Lauman breached this provision.”  (8/16/23 order, p. 7.)  The court agrees that this sentence (and  other language) in the order could have been more artfully stated.  The court did its best in the limited time it  had to write the order.  In their  opposition, defendants suggest the court could clarify the above sentence with  the following “minor modifications”: “The undisputed facts establish that, absent  consent from Santos, had the International Agreement not been terminated  before the divestment transaction, FSLA’s assignment of the  International Agreement to Grupo Lauman would have breached this  provision.”  (Opp., p. 3, modifying SJ  order at p. 7.)  In hindsight, the court agrees  that this sentence written by defendants more accurately reflects the court’s  reasoning.  The court notes, however,  that it has not adjudicated plaintiff’s breach of contract cause of  action.  The jury will render a verdict  on that claim.Defendants The Walt Disney Company  and TFCF Holdings LLC’s Motions to SealDefendants The  Walt Disney Company and TFCF Holdings LLC filed two motions to seal  records.  They move to seal: (1) portions  of plaintiff Santos Laguna S.A. de C.V.’s (Santos) motion in limine No. 2; (2) defendants’  opposition to Santos’s motion in limine No. 2; (3) the omnibus declaration of  Ming-Toy Taylor in support of their opposition, paragraphs 8, 11-12, and exhibits  7-11 to that declaration; (4) Santos’s reply in support of its motion in limine  No. 2; (5) the declaration of Gabriel F. Soledad in support of Santos’s motions  in limine Nos. 1-7, ¶¶ 5, 6, 14-17, and Exhibits 2-5 to that declaration.  Legal Standard  for Sealing RecordsCalifornia  Rules of Court, rule 2.550(d) provides:A court may order that a record be filed under seal only if it  expressly finds facts that establish: (1) There exists an overriding interest that overcomes the right of  public access to the record; (2) The overriding interest supports sealing the record; (3) A substantial probability exists that the overriding interest will  be prejudiced if the record is not sealed; (4) The proposed sealing is narrowly tailored; and (5) No less restrictive means exist to achieve the overriding  interest.The court finds  an overriding interest overcomes the right of public access to the subject  records.  The records defendants move to  seal concern the health conditions of some potential witnesses in this  case.  “[M]edical records are  constitutionally private and statutorily confidential.”  (Oiye v. Fox (2012) 211 Cal.App.4th  1036, 1070 (Oiye).)  That  overriding interest supports sealing the record.  “The public’s general right of access to  court records recognized in rule 2.550 must give way to the public’s concern  about the privacy of medical information … , particularly when the information  appears so tangentially related to the litigation.”  (Oiye, supra, at p. 1070.)  This action is about sports broadcasting  rights.  The potential witnesses’ health  information is far removed from any meaningful issue in the case.  It is entirely tangential.  The individuals’ privacy rights trump the public’s  minimal need to access this information.A  substantial probability exists that publicly disclosing the information will  prejudice these individuals’ overriding interest.  As Oiye stated, “We regard medical  records as presumptively private, such that plaintiff was not required to state  the obvious in a declaration, that she would be personally embarrassed to have  her medical records copied into court records.”   (Oiye, supra, 211 Cal.App.4th at p. 1070.)  The  proposed sealing is narrowly tailored.   Defendants move to seal only the parts of documents evidencing or  referring to these individuals’ health conditions and other context about the  individuals that would permit the public to identify them.  No less restrictive means exist to achieve  the overriding interests in confidentiality.   Redaction is insufficient to serve these interests because this  information, though tangential to the action as a whole, is necessary to  evaluate Santos’s motions in limine.  DispositionDefendants The Walt Disney Company and TFCF Holdings  LLC’s motion to seal conditionally sealed materials and supplemental motion to  seal conditionally sealed materials are granted.The court hereby seals  the following  records:(1) the unredacted copy of  plaintiff Santos Laguna S.A. de C.V.’s motion in limine No. 2; (2) the  unredacted copy of defendants’ opposition to Santos’s motion in limine No. 2;  (3) the omnibus declaration of Ming-Toy Taylor in support of their opposition,  paragraphs 8, 11-12, and exhibits 7-11 to that declaration; (4) the unredacted  copy of Santos’s reply in support of its motion in limine No. 2; (5) the  declaration of Gabriel F. Soledad in support of Santos’s motions in limine Nos.  1-7, ¶¶ 5, 6, 14-17, and Exhibits 2-5 to that declaration.   