 Case Number:  24STCV16185    Hearing Date:   October 31, 2024    Dept:  47 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Theresa M. Traber, Department 47
 
 
HEARING DATE:     October 31, 2024                   TRIAL
DATE: NOT SET
                                                           
CASE:                         James Camper v. Scorpion Services, Inc.,
et al.
 
CASE NO.:                 24STCV16185            
 
MOTION
TO SET ASIDE DEFAULT

 
MOVING PARTY:               Defendants Scorpion Services, Inc. and GHP Management
Corp.
 
RESPONDING PARTY(S): Plaintiff James
Camper, in pro per
 
STATEMENT
OF MATERIAL FACTS AND/OR PROCEEDINGS:
            
            This is an action for employment discrimination that was filed on June
28, 2024. Plaintiff alleges that he was terminated in retaliation for
complaining about sexual harassment and discriminatory policies and for
requesting religious accommodations. 
 
Defendants Scorpion Services, Inc.
and GHP Management Corp. request relief from the default entered against them
on August 27, 2024. 
            
TENTATIVE RULING:
 
            Defendants’
Motion to Set Aside Default is GRANTED.
 
            The
Answer filed on September 5, 2024 is deemed the operative Answer for the moving
Defendants. 
 
DISCUSSION:
 
Defendants Scorpion Services, Inc.
and GHP Management Corp. request relief from the default entered against them
on August 27, 2024. 
 
Procedural Posture
 
            On August
27, 2024, Plaintiff requested entry of default against the moving Defendants. (August
27, 2024 Request for Entry of Default.) That request was granted later that
same day. (Id.) However, on September 5, 2024, all Defendants in this
action, including the defaulted Defendants, jointly filed an Answer to the
Complaint, which was accepted by the Court as to the non-defaulted parties.
(See Answer.) Thus, rather than providing a proposed pleading, Defendants
request that the September 5, 2024 Answer be considered their proposed pleading
for the purposes of this motion. 
 
Mandatory Relief
 
            Defendants seek relief under the
mandatory relief provision of Code of Civil Procedure section 473(b). This
section provides:
 
“Notwithstanding any other requirements
of this section, the court shall, whenever an application for relief is made no
more than six months after entry of judgment, is in proper form, and is
accompanied by an attorney's sworn affidavit attesting to his or her mistake,
inadvertence, surprise, or neglect, vacate any (1) resulting default entered by
the clerk against his or her client, and which will result in entry of a
default judgment, or (2) resulting default judgment or dismissal entered
against his or her client, unless the court finds that the default or dismissal
was not in fact caused by the attorney's mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or
neglect.”
 
(Code
Civ. Proc. § 473(b).) As default judgment has not yet been entered, the motion
is timely under this provision. 
 
            Defendants contend that their
failure to respond to the Complaint was caused by their counsel’s failure to timely
follow up with all Defendants regarding conflict-of-interest waivers.
(Declaration of Sahar Shiralian ISO Mot. ¶¶ 3-4.) The Court notes that
Defendants and their counsel characterize the error as failure to timely
communicate with Plaintiff regarding the delay. (See Shiralian Decl. ¶
4.) Defendants’ communication—or lack thereof—with Plaintiff has no bearing on
whether Defendants could timely respond to the Complaint. The Declaration also states,
however, that the delay occurred, in part, because Defendants’ counsel was waiting
to receive signed conflict waivers, despite the looming deadline to respond. (Id.
¶ 3.) Defendants’ counsel’s affidavit thus discloses a separate failure by defense
counsel in that Defendants’ attorney did not diligently pursue resolution of
the conflicts issue by following up with the various clients. In consideration
of the strong presumption in favor of resolution of cases on their merits, the
Court finds that Defendants have adequately demonstrated mistake of counsel
such that relief from the default is mandatory. 
 
CONCLUSION:

 
            Accordingly,
Defendants’ Motion to Set Aside Default is GRANTED.
 
            The
Answer filed on September 5, 2024 is deemed the operative Answer for the moving
Defendants. 
 
            Moving
Parties to give notice.
 
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
Dated:  October 31,
2024                                ___________________________________
                                                                                    Theresa
M. Traber
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court
 

            Any party may submit on the
tentative ruling by contacting the courtroom via email at Smcdept47@lacourt.org by no later than 4:00 p.m. the day
before the hearing. All interested parties must be copied on the email. It
should be noted that if you submit on a tentative ruling the court will still
conduct a hearing if any party appears. By submitting on the tentative you
have, in essence, waived your right to be present at the hearing, and you
should be aware that the court may not adopt the tentative, and may issue an
order which modifies the tentative ruling in whole or in part.
 