  Case Number:  22STCV14001    Hearing Date:   October 31, 2024    Dept:  47 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Theresa M. Traber, Department 47
 
 
HEARING DATE:     October 31, 2024                   TRIAL
DATE: February 25, 2025
                                                           
CASE:                         S.J. and H.J., minors, through Nathan J.
and Shari E., their guardians ad litem, v. Portola Charter Middle School, et
al.
 
CASE NO.:                 22STCV14001            
 
MOTION
FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT, OR, IN THE ALTERNATIVE, SUMMARY ADJUDICATION

 
MOVING PARTY:               Plaintiff H.J., a minor, joined by S.J., a minor, by
and through Nathan J., their guardian ad litem;
 
RESPONDING PARTY(S): Defendant Los
Angeles Unified School District;  
 
STATEMENT
OF MATERIAL FACTS AND/OR PROCEEDINGS:
            
            This is an action for injunctive relief filed on April 27, 2022.
Plaintiffs allege Defendants failed to offer independent study in violation of
sections 51745 and 51747 of the Education Code.
 
Plaintiff H.J., joined by Plaintiff
S.J., moves for summary judgment, or, in the alternative, summary adjudication
of all causes of action. 
            
TENTATIVE RULING:
 
            Plaintiff
H.J.’s Motion for Summary Judgment, or, in the alternative, Summary
Adjudication is DENIED in its entirety.
 
            Plaintiff
S.J.’s Joinder to the Motion is DENIED. 
 
DISCUSSION:
 
Motion for Summary Judgment
 
            Plaintiff
H.J. moves for summary judgment against Defendant. As Plaintiff is not entitled
to summary adjudication of each cause of action for the reasons stated below,
Plaintiff’s Motion for Summary Judgment is DENIED. 
Motion for Summary Adjudication
 
            Plaintiff
H.J., a minor, by and through their guardian ad litem, Nathan J., moves for
summary adjudication of both causes of action asserted against Defendant Los
Angeles Unified School District.
 
Legal Standard
 
The function of a motion for
summary judgment or adjudication is to allow a determination as to whether an
opposing party can show evidentiary support for a pleading or claim and, if
not, to enable an order of summary dismissal without the need for trial. (Aguilar
v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 843.) Code of Civil
Procedure Section 437c(c) “requires the trial judge to grant summary judgment
if all the evidence submitted, and ‘all inferences reasonably deducible from
the evidence’ and uncontradicted by other inferences or evidence, show that
there is no triable issue as to any material fact and that the moving party is
entitled to judgment as a matter of law.” 
(Adler v. Manor Healthcare Corp. (1992) 7 Cal.App.4th 1110,
1119.)  “The function of the pleadings in
a motion for summary judgment is to delimit the scope of the issues; the
function of the affidavits or declarations is to disclose whether there is any
triable issue of fact within the issues delimited by the pleadings.” (Juge
v. County of Sacramento (1993) 12 Cal.App.4th 59, 67, citing FPI
Development, Inc. v. Nakashima (1991) 231 Cal. App. 3d 367, 381-82.)
 
As to each claim as framed by the
complaint, the defendant moving for summary judgment must satisfy the initial
burden of proof by presenting facts to negate an essential element, or to
establish a defense. (Code Civ Proc. § 437c(p)(2); Scalf v. D. B. Log Homes,
Inc. (2005) 128 Cal.App.4th 1510, 1520.) Courts “liberally construe the
evidence in support of the party opposing summary judgment and resolve doubts
concerning the evidence in favor of that party.” (Dore v. Arnold Worldwide,
Inc. (2006) 39 Cal.4th 384, 389.) The lack of opposition by a plaintiff is
not grounds to grant a motion for summary judgment if a defendant cannot meet
their initial burden of proof. (See Thatcher v. Lucy Stores, Inc. (2000)
79 Cal.App.4th 1081, 1087.)
 
            Once the
defendant has met that burden, the burden shifts to the plaintiff to show that
a triable issue of one or more material facts exists as to that cause of action
or a defense thereto. To establish a triable issue of material fact, the party
opposing the motion must produce substantial responsive evidence. (Sangster
v. Paetkau (1998) 68 Cal.App.4th 151, 166.)
 
Defendant’s Evidentiary Objections
 
            As part of
its opposition papers, Defendant served and filed a document entitled
“Defendant Los Angeles Unified School District’s Objection to Plaintiffs S.J.
and H.J.’s Motion for Summary Judgment or in the Alternative Summary
Adjudication.” Although this document purports to object to specific evidence,
close examination reveals that Defendant is not objecting to the evidence
itself but rather to Plaintiff’s characterization of that evidence in portions
of Plaintiff’s Separate Statement of Undisputed Material Fact. Pursuant to Rule
of Court 3.1354, objections must be made to evidence, not to the Separate
Statement, and must specify the evidence or portion thereof which is objectionable.
(Cal. Rules of Court Rule 3.1354(b).) As Defendant’s purported objections are
not targeted at evidence, they are not proper objections and must therefore be
OVERRULED.
 
Plaintiffs’ Deficient Separate Statement
 
            Plaintiffs’
Separate Statement of Undisputed Material Fact does not strictly comply with
the requirements of the California Rules of Court. Plaintiffs’ Separate
Statement separately identifies each cause of action and claim for damages at
issue, as required by the Rules of Court. (Rule 3.1350 (d)(1)(A).) However, the
Separate Statement does not set forth each issue as raised in the notice of
motion, verbatim, because the Notice of Motion addresses the two causes of
action in the Complaint jointly, rather than separately, as required by subdivision
(b). (Rule 3.1350(b); see also Amended Notice of Motion p. 2.) Moreover, rather
than listing each supporting material fact separately as to each issue, as
required by subdivision (d)(1)(B), Defendants have instead listed all their
claimed material facts under the subheading for the first cause of action for
violation of Education Code sections 51745 and 51747, and then incorporated those
facts by reference under the subheading for the second cause of action for declaratory
relief. Although this presentation of the facts is not strictly compliant with
the Rules of Court, the Separate Statement clearly identifies which facts are
relevant to each issue raised in the Notice of Motion. Defendant has not
objected to the form of the Separate Statement and instead responded to the
Separate Statement on the merits. The Court therefore finds that this defect is
not prejudicial and will consider the motion on its merits. 
 
First Cause of Action: Violation of Education Code
Sections 51745 and 51747
 
            Plaintiff
contends that there is no defense to the first cause of action for violation of
Education Code sections 51745 and 51745 and therefore that Plaintiff is
entitled to summary adjudication of this claim against Defendant.
 
In their Complaint, Plaintiffs
contend that Defendant violated Education Code sections 51745 and 51747 by
failing to provide highly gifted students an independent study opinion that was
equivalent to the in-person instruction available to them if they were able to
attend such claims during the 2020-2021 academic year.  (Complaint, ¶ 36.)  
 
            Education
Code section 51745(a) provides:
 
Commencing with the 1990-91 school
year, a local educational agency may offer independent study to meet the
educational needs of pupils in accordance with the requirements of this
article. For the 2021-22 school year only, the governing board of a school
district or a county office of education shall offer independent study to meet
the educational needs of pupils. Educational opportunities offered through
independent study may include, but shall not be limited to, the following:
 
(1) Special assignments extending the
content of regular courses of instruction.
 
(2) Individualized study in a
particular area of interest or in a subject not currently available in the
regular school curriculum.
 
(3) Continuing and special study
during travel.
 
(4) Volunteer community service
activities and leadership opportunities that support and strengthen pupil
achievement.
 
(5) Individualized study for a
pupil whose health would be put at risk by in-person instruction, as determined
by the parent or guardian of the pupil, or a pupil who is unable to attend
in-person instruction due to a quarantine due to exposure to, or infection
with, COVID-19, pursuant to local or state public health guidance.
 
(Educ. Code § 51745(a).) In addition, Plaintiffs allege that
the independent study options offered by Defendant during the 2020-2021
academic year violated section 51747(c) of the Education Code, which requires
local educational agencies to implement policies to accomplish: “The provision
of content aligned to grade level standards that is provided at a level of
quality and intellectual challenge substantially equivalent to in-person
instruction.”  (Complaint, ¶ 37, quoting Educ.
Code § 51747(c).)    
 
            Defendant
demurred to the Complaint on August 1, 2022, arguing that Plaintiffs had failed
to state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action because the Education
Code did not require provision of a specialized curriculum to highly gifted
students. (See August 1, 2022 Demurrer.) After analyzing the operative statutes
and the legislative history, the Court concluded:
 
[W]here the local
educational institutions provided independent study programs in the 2021-2022
school year for pupils “whose health would be put at risk by in-person
instruction, as determined by the parent or guardian of the pupil,” the school
authorities were required to provide a curriculum package to highly gifted
students that satisfied their peculiar educational needs. Such a conclusion
arises from the requirement that curriculum content be “aligned to grade level
standards that is provided at a level of quality and intellectual challenge
substantially equivalent to in-person instruction” under section 51747(c). The
Court’s conclusion is also grounded on section 51476’s language requiring
school districts to “ensure the same access to all existing services and
resources” to independent study students “as is available to all other pupils
in the school” and the direction that services “may include” the use of
qualified personnel “to assess the achievement, abilities, interests,
aptitudes, and needs of participating pupils to determine . . . the most
appropriate individualized plan and resources to be made available to pupils
enrolled in full-time independent study.” 
These provisions suggest that the Legislature intended independent study
programs to accommodate more advanced students such as the highly gifted
Plaintiffs. Defendant’s own guidance materials employ similar framing in
describing the need and requirements for differentiated instruction for gifted
students. (See Los Angeles Unified School District, Gifted/Talented Programs
Overview, Rev. 2021 p.1 [“Teachers of gifted/talented students differentiate
the core curriculum through various means, . . . A local school program must
comply with a more rigorous standard providing differentiation, rather
than “One-Size-Fits-All” instruction as an integral part of the regular school
day.” [Emphasis added].) 
 
(December 5, 2022 Ruling on Matter Taken Under Submission pp.
6-7 [emphasis in original].) 
 
            Plaintiff
describes numerous differences between in-person education at the Portola
Highly Gifted Magnet Program and remote learning in the City of Angels Virtual
Academy, including, inter alia: (1) less restrictive admission standards
for the VA (SSUMF Nos. 2-4, 36, 42); (2) variation in instruction (SSUMF Nos.
5-12, 37-38, 43-44); (3) fewer instructors with less advanced credentials
(SSUMF Nos. 16-21, 39-41); (4) no elective classes (SSUMF Nos. 23-25, 35, 50);
(5) fewer hours of live instruction (SSUMF Nos. 26, 45-48); and (6) no
after-school enrichment programs (SSUMF Nos. 27-28; 52.) Although Plaintiff has
provided substantial evidence of the existence of these differences,
those differences do not conclusively demonstrate that the virtual program was
deficient as a matter of law when construed in the light most favorable to
Defendant, as required on a motion for summary adjudication. As the Court
stated in ruling on the Demurrer, Defendant was obligated by Education Code
sections 51745 and 51747 to provide a curriculum package to highly gifted
students that satisfied their peculiar educational needs. Plaintiff has not
described what “peculiar educational needs” were not satisfied in this case.
Although Plaintiff has described certain benefits of classes composed
solely of highly gifted students (see SSUMF Nos. 9-12), Plaintiff has not set
forth any “peculiar educational needs,” satisfied or not, which are
applicable here. Moreover, even if Plaintiff had addressed that predicate
issue, the Court considers the sufficiency of Defendant’s efforts to be a
factual issue that is not well-suited to resolution on summary adjudication. 
 
            For the
same reasons, the Court is not convinced by Plaintiff’s contention that the
educational experience at the VA program was not “substantially equivalent,” as
contemplated by Education Code section 51747. “Substantial equivalence” is a
factual assessment, and while Plaintiff’s ample evidence of differences in the
programs might serve to demonstrate the existence of a triable issue of
fact in opposition to a motion for summary adjudication, it does not establish
the existence of all elements of Plaintiff’s contention, nor an absence of a
defense thereto. 
 
            Accordingly,
Plaintiff’s Motion for Summary Adjudication of the first cause of action is
DENIED. 
 
Second Cause of Action: Declaratory Relief
 
            The parties
agree that Plaintiffs’ second cause of action for declaratory relief is
entirely derivative of the first cause of action. Accordingly, for the reasons
stated above, Plaintiff’s Motion for Summary Adjudication of the second cause
of action is DENIED.
 
Joinder to Motion for Summary Judgment or Summary
Adjudication
 
             Plaintiff S.J., a minor, by and through their
guardian ad litem, H.J., joins the motion for summary judgment or summary
adjudication on the same grounds as the original moving papers. However, as the
motion itself must be denied on its merits, Plaintiff S.J.’s joinder to the
motion must be DENIED on the same basis. 
            
CONCLUSION:

 
            Accordingly,
Plaintiff H.J.’s Motion for Summary Judgment, or, in the alternative, Summary
Adjudication is DENIED in its entirety.
 
            Plaintiff
S.J.’s Joinder to the Motion is DENIED. 
 
            Moving
Parties to give notice.
 
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
Dated: October 31, 2024                                 ___________________________________
                                                                                    Theresa
M. Traber
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court
 
 