 Case Number:  23VECV03816    Hearing Date:   April 16, 2024    Dept:  T 23VECV03816 PARTOWASHRAF V
TESLA
[TENTATIVE] ORDER:  : 
Defendant Tesla Inc.’s Motion to Compel Arbitration and Stay the Action
is GRANTED.  Arbitration Status
Conference is set 4/11/2025 at 8:30 a.m. in Dept. T.  Mandatory appearance unless the case is
dismissed or judgment is entered.
Defendant Tesla Inc.’s Request
for Judicial Notice is GRANTED but not as to any hearsay or facts in dispute.
Introduction 
Defendant Tesla Inc. (Defendant)
moved to compel arbitration and to stay Plaintiff Sherwin Partowashraf’s
(Plaintiff) action.  Defendant requested
judicial notice of Plaintiff’s Complaint. 

Discussion 
In deciding a motion to compel
arbitration, trial courts must decide first whether an enforceable arbitration
agreement exists between the parties, and then determine the second gateway
issue whether the claims are covered within the scope of the agreement.  (Hyundai Amco America, Inc. v. S3H, Inc.
(2014) 232 Cal.App.4th 572, 577.) 
Defendant provided that the Motor Vehicle Order Agreement (MVOA) entered
on January 15, 2022 included an arbitration provision requiring arbitration of
any and all disputes arising out of or relating to any aspect of the
relationship between Plaintiff and Defendant. 
(Raymond Kim (Kim) Decl., par. 3, Exh. 1 at pg. 3.)  Plaintiff thereafter took delivery of the
vehicle on March 24, 2022 at which time Plaintiff executed a Retail Installment
Sale Contract (RISC).  (Kim Decl., par.
3, Exh. 2.)  The RISC also included an
arbitration agreement.  (RISC pg.
7.)  The scope of both agreements’
arbitration provisions are broadly worded so as to encompass the claims alleged
in the Complaint.  With submission of the
two arbitration agreements and the broad scope of the provisions, Defendant met
their burden on the motion.  The burden
transferred to Plaintiff to dispute the validity of the arbitration
agreements.  
Plaintiff argued that the two
arbitration agreements are unconscionable. 
Plaintiff must provide evidence of both procedural and substantive
unconscionability, based upon a sliding scale. 
(Kinney v. United Healthcare Services, Inc. (1999) 70 Cal.App.4th 1329;
Armendariz v. Found Health Psychcare Servs., Inc. (2000) 24 Cal.4th 83, 114;
Pinnacle Museum Tower Assn. v. Pinnacle Market Dev. (US), LLC (2012) 55 Cal.4th
223, 247.) Plaintiff asserted procedural unconscionability on the grounds that
the RISC was a contract of adhesion. 
Preliminarily, Plaintiff failed to submit any evidence to show that the
MVOA and the RISC were presented with a “take it or leave it” basis.  The only evidence submitted with the
opposition is Attorney Kamau Edwards’ (Edwards) declaration.  Edwards did not attest to any facts regarding
the manner in which the MVOA or RISC were entered.  For the failure to submit evidence to show
procedural unconscionability, Plaintiff failed to show even a minimal amount of
procedural unconscionability.
Even if the Court were to review
the MVOA and RISC for procedural unconscionability, the Court does not find
any.  There are insufficient facts within
the MVOA or RISC to show that the arbitration agreements were a surprise
because the arbitration agreements are highlighted and separated from the other
provisions in the MVOA and the RISC by a box. 
The arbitration agreement is also half a page of a four-page MVOA.
Further, the title to the RISC expressly stated “(WITH ARBITRATION
PROVISION)”.  The RISC’s arbitration
provision is also separated by a box at the bottom corner of the first page,
which also referenced the arbitration provision located on page 7 of the
RISC.  The provision on page 7 of the
RISC is half the page and stands alone from the rest of the RISC
provisions.  Because of these facts,
there is no showing of any surprise or there is a very minimal showing of
procedural unconscionability.  Due to the
minimal showing of procedural unconscionability, Plaintiff has a greater burden
on the element of substantive unconscionability.
Plaintiff argued that the
arbitration agreement is substantively unconscionable because of inadequate
discovery rules in the American Arbitration Association’s (AAA) Consumer
Arbitration Rules.  However, it is only in
the MVOA’s arbitration provision that AAA Consumer Arbitration Rules
apply.  The RISC’s arbitration provision
allows Plaintiff to choose arbitration with AAA “or any other organization.”  Plaintiff’s sole argument as to inadequate
discovery is remedied because the arbitration agreements do not strictly
require arbitration with AAA.  These
facts show that there is minimal substantive unconscionability.  Because of the minimal showing of both
substantive and procedural unconscionability, Plaintiff failed to show
unconscionability as a defense.  
Plaintiff argued that enforcing
the arbitration agreements would violate public policy and asserted that the
issues here are analogous to the issues presented in Rheinhart v. Nissan North
America, Inc. (2023) 92 Cal.App.5th 1016, 1020-1021 (Rheinhart).  However, the Court does not agree with
Plaintiff.  There is no showing that the
two Arbitration Agreements require Plaintiff to waive his rights to civil
penalties under the Song-Beverly Consumer Warranty Act (Act).  It is not shown that an arbitrator is prohibited
from awarding civil penalties under the Act. 
Further, the Rheinhart case is distinguishable based upon the
facts.  The instant action does not
involve any settlement agreement or release of liability.  The agreements at issue are the arbitration
agreements within the MVOA and RISC.  The
Court does not find the public policy argument to be persuasive.
Plaintiff then argued that the
agreements are unenforceable due to Defendant’s waiver.  Waiver arises from delays and extensive
involvement in litigation before seeking arbitration.  (Adolph v. Coastal Auto Sales, Inc. (2010)
184 Cal.App.4th 1443;  Augusta v. Keehn
& Associates (2011) 193 Cal.App.4th 331.) 
Despite Plaintiff’s citation to the rules on waiver, Plaintiff failed to
present any facts showing extensive involvement in litigation.  The instant motion was the first appearance
by Defendant in the action.  Defendant is
not seen to have utilized the judicial process in any other way.  For this defect in the argument, the waiver
argument is unpersuasive.  Specifically
as to untimeliness, the instant action was personally served upon Defendant on
September 15, 2023, making the deadline to file the instant motion October 15,
2023.  The motion was allegedly untimely
filed on November 16, 2023.  However,
there was some email discussions as to an extension to either “respond” or
“Answer” to the complaint.  (Reply: Ali
Ameripour Decl. par. 3, Exh. 2.)  But the
untimeliness is not seen to be unreasonable. 
In any event, untimeliness is not the sole determinant of waiver.  Because Plaintiff did not provide facts to
show Defendant’s extensive use of the judicial process, the waiver argument is
unpersuasive. 
The motion to compel arbitration
and stay the action is GRANTED.
IT IS SO ORDERED, CLERK TO GIVE
NOTICE.