  Case Number:  21VECV00692    Hearing Date:   April 16, 2024    Dept:  T 21VECV00692 AKHOUNDZADEH V KHATIBI
[TENTATIVE] ORDER:  The Motion for Summary Judgment is GRANTED. Cross-Defendant Karen Dr LLC's lacks any interest in the subject property.  The Court declines to rule on the evidentiary objections filed by the parties for failure to comply with procedural requirements. Cross-Defendant Karen Dr LLC's request for judicial notice is GRANTED as to all Exhibits but only as to the documents' existence and not as to any hearsay or facts in dispute. Cross-Complainants' request for judicial notice is GRANTED only as to Exhibits 11 and 12 and DENIED as to the remainder.
Introduction
Cross-Defendant Karen Dr LLC (LLC) moves for summary judgment or alternatively for summary adjudication against the Third Amended Cross-Complaint (TAXC) filed by Cross-Complainants RICHARD KHATIBI, an individual, d.b.a. RICH ESTATE PROPERTIES (“Richard”), FAEZEH AFCHEHE, an individual (“Faezeh”) and MELICA S. KHATIBI, an individual("Melica") (collectively, Cross-Complainants). The instant motion specifically moves against the sixteenth cause of action for quiet title alleged by Faezeh and the seventeenth causes of action for declaratory relief alleged by the Cross-Complainants.
Evidentiary Objections
As to evidentiary objections submitted by LLC and the Cross-Complainants, the Court declines to rule on all the evidentiary objections for failure to comply with procedural requirements. (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1354(b)-(c) [requirement of two separate documents, i.e., evidentiary objections and a proposed order on those objections]; Hodjat v. State Farm Mutual Automobile Ins. Co. (2012) 211 Cal.App.4th 1, 9 [trial court not required to give a second chance at filing properly formatted papers].) In any event, the subject portions are not material to the Court's disposition of the motion and the improper legal opinion does not have persuasive effect in a declaration. (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (q).)
Judicial Notice
LLC's request for judicial notice is GRANTED as to all Exhibits but only as to the documents' existence and not as to any hearsay or facts in dispute.
Cross-Complainants' request for judicial notice of deposition transcripts taken during the course of this action but not previously submitted within the court record are DENIED because they are not proper subjects for judicial notice. (See Cross-Complainants' RJN, Items 1-9.) Additionally, these deposition transcripts have not been properly authenticated. Their request for judicial notice of declaration of Melica, filed with this Court on or about November 22, 2023 and the minute order of February 15, 2024 are GRANTED. As to Melica's declaration, the Court only takes judicial notice of the document's existence and not as to any hearsay or facts in dispute.
Discussion
Legal Capacity
As a preliminary matter, to the contention of whether LLC, a foreign entity organized in the state of Washington, has the capacity to defend itself in this action while being an administratively dissolved entity, this issue was previously revolved by the Court in the affirmative. (See October 4, 2023 Minute Order at pp. 2-3.) This decision was based on the following reasoning. First, the Court determined that, because LLC had not been suspended, Cross-Complainants' reliance on Revenue and Taxation Code § 22301 was inapplicable in the case at hand. (Id. at pg. 2.) Second, the Court asserted that the legal authority had not been presented to show that LLC's dissolution terminating its capacity as a "person." (Id. at pg. 3.) In this regard, the Court relied on Revised Code of Washington 23.95.610(3) and California Corporations Code § 17707.04 for the proposition that a limited liability company remains in existence to wind up its affairs and/or defendant actions against its remaining assets. (Ibid.) The Court declines to disrupt this prior reasoning.
Notably, the Court did not address whether LLC lacked the ability to defend itself in this action pursuant to Corporations Code § 2203 because this argument had not been brought to the Court's attention. Under that statute, a foreign corporation may not maintain an action arising from intrastate commerce until it has complied with Corporation Code § 2105, i.e. obtain a certificate of qualification from the Secretary of State (Corporation Code § 2105(a).) Without getting lost in the arguments presented by both sides as to whether LLC engaged in intrastate commerce, the Court finds that Corporations Code § 2203 is inapplicable here because it does not apply to an entity defendant's ability to defend against an action. (United Medical Management Ltd. v. Gatto (1996) 49 Cal.App.4th 1732, 1739 ["A foreign corporation transacting intrastate business which has failed to qualify with the Secretary of State may nevertheless defend an action brought against it in state court."].) Thus, any discussion as to whether LLC's engaged in intrastate commerce is irrelevant.
While not addressed by either party, there is an issue of whether Cross-Complainants are able to maintain an action against LLC considering it was administratively dissolved in 2012. It is undisputed that LLC is a dissolved entity. Under Corporations Code § 2010, it states in pertinent part that a dissolved corporation "nevertheless continues to exist for the purpose of … defending actions … against it and … to … discharge obligations." This generally applies to corporations organized under California law but does not apply to dissolved foreign corporations. (Greb v. Diamond International Corp. (2013) 56 Cal.4th 243, 273; Robinson v. SSW, Inc. (2012) 209 Cal.App.4th 588, 602.) Instead, a foreign corporation's liability would be determined by the laws of the state where it was incorporated. In Washington, the applicable survival statute of claims against an administratively dissolved entity is two years from the dissolution date. (Revised Code of Washington 24.06.345.) Thus, with this understanding, it appears that an action against LLC would be untenable. However, because the moving papers do not move for summary judgment pursuant to a statute of limitations argument, the Court declines to reach a determination on this issue.
Accordingly, the Court finds that LLC is still eligible to defend itself in this action.
Sixteenth Cause of Action for Quiet Title
LLC contends that the sixteenth cause of action for quiet title lacks merit because LLC lacks an adverse interest in the subject property and Cross-Complainants lack a valid claim to the subject property. The Court shall address each in turn.
First, because LLC executed a quitclaim deed to Ebrahim Khatibi on June 23, 2023, LLC does not possess an adverse interest in the subject property. (Motion at pg. 18, relying on Code Civ. Proc. § 760.020(a), Mead v. Sanwa Bank California (1998) 61 C.A.4th 561, 567-568; UMF No. 36.) In opposition, Cross-Complainants argue that the discussion does not end there because the quit-claim deeds and transfers of the subject property have clouded title and create a dispute as to who owns the subject property and who has authority to transfer it. (Opposition at pg. 18.)
However, this argument is not persuasive. It is undisputed that Shabnam was the 100% owner of LLC and was the only person granted authority to make decisions on behalf of LLC. (UMF No. 3.) While Cross-Complainants attempt to create an issue of dispute on the basis that Shabnam does not recall the exact circumstances of signing LLC's operating agreements (Opposition at pg. 12), this amounts to speculation, which is insufficient to create a triable issue of material fact. (Miller v. Fortune Commercial Corp. (2017) 15 Cal.App.5th 214, 221.) Moreover, it is undisputed that LLC acquired the subject property through a grant deed that had been recorded on December 13, 2011. (UMF No. 2.) As a result, because Shabnam is the sole owner of the LLC and LLC was administratively dissolved in 2012, ownership of the subject property transferred to Shabnam by operation of law. (See Kwok v. Transnation Title Ins. Co. (2009) 170 Cal.App.4th 1562, 1568-1569.)
Again, Cross-Complainants attempt to create a triable issue of material fact by arguing that LLC was not properly dissolved because Shabnam took no efforts to wind up LLC or to reinstate it, and they reason that this undermines Shabnam's claim that her inherited LLC's assets. (Opposition at pp. 13-14.) The Court is not persuaded by this argument because Cross-Complainants have not cited to any legal authority that would cast doubt as to whether Shabnam became the owner of LLC's assets and liabilities by operation of law. Also, under Washington law, there is no prescribed time period in which a dissolved corporation must transfer its assets and satisfy its liabilities. (Revised Code of Washington 25.15.297.) While Shabnam may have been dilatory in carrying out her duties, she eventually did so when she quitclaimed whatever interest she and LLC had in the subject property to Ebrahim, which satisfied the liability of his purchase money loan. (UMF Nos. 6, 15, 36.) Thus, despite Cross-Complainants insistence, there is no doubt LLC's interests in the subject property had been conveyed via quitclaim deed.
Consequently, the quitclaim deeds executed in 2021 and 2023 by Shabnam and LLC, respectively, to Ebrahim released any interest they had in the subject property (City of Manhattan Beach v. Superior Court (1996) 13 Cal.4th 232, 239 ["A quitclaim deed transfers whatever present right or interest the grantor has in the property."].) It follows then that LLC does not possess an adverse interest in the subject property. Therefore, because there are no triable issues of material fact that LLC has an adverse interest in the subject property and Cross-Complainants lack evidence to show otherwise, the sixteenth cause of action fails as a matter of law.
Accordingly, because LLC does not have an adverse interest in the subject property, the Court grants summary adjudication as to this cause of action. As a result, the Court declines to address whether Cross-Complainants have a valid claim to the subject property.
Seventeenth Cause of Action for Declaratory Relief
In order for a claim for declaratory relief to be actionable, there must be "an actual controversy as to legal rights or duties." (Code Civ. Proc. § 1060.) In light of the quitclaim deed analysis provided above, an actual controversy does not exist between LLC and Cross-Complainants. For this reason, the Court grants summary adjudication of this cause of action in LLC's favor.
Doctrine of Unclean Hands
LLC also contends that the Cross-Complainants' action is barred pursuant to the doctrine of unclean hands. In this regard, LLC argues that the grant deed executed by Melica in 2019 to Faezeh amounted to a forgery because Melica had no authority to transfer the subject property owned by LLC, and the grant deed conveyed no title. (Motion at pp. 16-17 relying on Penal Code §§ 470-471, People v. McKenna (1938) 11 Cal.2d 327, 333.) However, LLC has failed to submit sufficient evidence to create the inference that Melica intended to pass along a forged deed. While there was no written agreement to substantiate the belief that Melica would inherit the subject property upon turning eighteen, a determination of the credibility of this belief would be best reserved for a trier of fact.
Based on the foregoing, the Court GRANTS LLC's motion for summary judgment.
Judgment shall be in favor of Cross-defendant Karen Dr. LLC and against Cross-complainants RICHARD KHATIBI, an individual, d.b.a. RICH ESTATE PROPERTIES, FAEZEH AFCHEHE, an individual; and MELICA S. KHATIBI, an individual.  Costs per Memorandum of Costs.  Attorney fees, if allowed by statute or contract, by noticed motion.
IT IS SO ORDERED, CLERK TO ENTER JUDGMENT AND GIVE NOTICE OF ENTRY.
 ________________________________________________________________________________
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER:  Cross-Defendant Shokrieh Mohammadzadeh’s Demurrer to the Third Amended Cross-Complaint is MOOT as to the second and ninth causes of action; SUSTAINED WITHOUT LEAVE TO AMEND as to the sixteenth cause of action for quiet title; and SUSTAINED WITH 20 DAYS LEAVE TO AMEND as to the sixth, eighth, tenth, and seventeenth causes of action.
Cross-Defendant Shokrieh Mohammadzadeh’s Motion to Strike Portions of the Third Amended Cross-Complaint is MOOT based upon the ruling on the concurrent demurrer.
Introduction
Cross-Defendant Shokrieh Mohammadzadeh (Mohammadzadeh) demurred to Cross-Complainants Richard Khatibi, individually and dba Rich Estate Properties (Richard ), Faezeh Afchehe (Afchehe); and Melica S. Khatibi’s (Melica ) (collectively, Cross-Complainants) Third Amended Cross-Complaint (TAXC).  Mohammadzadeh’s demurrer placed into issue the second cause of action (COA) for breach of contract, the sixth COA for accounting, the eighth COA for quantum meruit, the ninth COA for breach of fiduciary duty, the tenth COA for dissolution, the sixteenth COA for quiet title, and the seventeenth COA for declaratory relief.  Mohammadzadeh’s motion to strike requested that the request for punitive damages and attorneys’ fees be stricken.
Procedure
Mohammadzadeh’s demurrer to the second COA for breach of contract and ninth COA for breach of fiduciary duty are unfounded because the captions to the two COAs showed that the COAs are not alleged against Mohammadzadeh.  Specifically, the second COA is only alleged against Cross-Defendants “Ebrahim, Ali, and AEK”.  The ninth COA is only alleged against Cross-Defendants “Ebrahim, Ali, Sepehr, and Mohammad”.  The captions expressly show that the two COAs are not alleged against “all” Cross-Defendants.  Further, it is noted that the TAXC included Roe Cross-Defendants to be included in the designation of “Quiet Title Cross-Defendants” or “Quiet Title Cross-Defendant”.  (TAXC pg. 3:2-4.)  The caption to the second and ninth COAs and the allegations thereunder also do not make any reference to Roe Cross-Defendants or Quiet Title Cross-Defendant(s).  Because these two COAs are not alleged against Mohammadzadeh, either by Roe designation or Quiet Title Cross-Defendant designation, the two COAs do not apply to Mohammadzadeh. 
The demurrer to the second and ninth COAs is MOOT.
Discussion
The sixth COA for accounting, the eighth COA for quantum meruit, and the tenth COA for dissolution are based upon Cross-Complainants’ requests/demands to windup the family Joint Venture.  (TAXC pars. 18-30, 40-45, 125-127, 131-132, and 141-142.)  Mohammadzadeh argued that there are insufficient facts to show her involvement in the “Joint Venture”.  As noted above, all Roe Cross-Defendants, which includes Mohammadzadeh, were designated as “Quiet Title Cross-Defendant(s)”.   A liberal review of the allegations in the TAXC support Mohammadzadeh’s argument.  The allegations related to the family Joint Venture only involve other Cross-Defendants that are not Roe Cross-Defendants or Quiet Title Cross-Defendants.  This pleading defect presents good cause to sustain the demurrer. 
Cross-Complainants’ opposition provided that additional facts were obtained through discovery responses from Mohammadzadeh’s son, Cross-Defendant Ali Sephyr (Sephyr).  Sephyr claimed/testified that Mohammadzadeh has ownership interest in thirteen properties acquired through the Joint Venture and actively participated in real estate transactions/transfers to and with Cross-Defendant AEK.  Sephyr’s deposition testimony as to his mother’s alleged interest in the Joint Venture and/or real properties is sufficient to show that the pleading can be cured.  The Court only reviewed the deposition testimony not to determine whether the TAXC, as it stands, is sufficiently pled.  The issue of sufficient pleading was determined only reviewing the four corners of the TAXC.  The review of the deposition testimony was only used to determine whether the defective pleading could be cured.  The Court finds that facts exist to allow amendment.
The Demurrer to the sixth, eighth, and tenth COAs is SUSTAINED WITH LEAVE TO AMEND.
The sixteenth COA for quiet title is grounded on the dispute over ownership of the Karen Property.  (TAXC pars. 11, 31-35, and 191.)  The sixteenth COA expressly alleged that Cross-Complainant Faezeh Afchehe, only,  “is concerned that her rightful title [to the Karen Property] will be illegitimately challenged again by the QUIET TITLE CROSS-DEFENDANTS”  (TAXC par. 191.)  The caption and body of the COA expressly allege the claim against the Quiet Title Cross-Defendants, which includes Mohammadzadeh.  However, nothing in the body of the TAXC or the specific COA alleges a current dispute of ownership in the Karen Property, at least as to Mohammadzadeh.  A fear of future dispute over ownership is not proper for a quiet title action.  At minimum, the COA, as expressly alleged, is not seen to be ripe.  Courts are prohibited from issuing advisory opinions on matters that are not ripe for review. (Pacific Legal Found. v. Cal. Coastal Com. (1982) 33 Cal.3d 158, 170; Denny’s, Inc. v. City of Agoura Hills (1997) 56 Cal.App.4th 1312, 1329 n. 10; Hunt v. Sup. Ct. (1999) 21 Cal.4th 984, 998; State Bd. of Educ. v. Honig (1993) 13 Cal.App.4th 720, 743.)  “A controversy is not deemed ripe for adjudication unless it arises from a genuine present clash of interests and the operative facts are sufficiently definite to permit a particularistic determination rather than a broad pronouncement rooted in abstractions.” (O'Grady v. Superior Court (2006) 139 Cal.App.4th 1423, 1451.)  A mere disagreement of parties over a dispute that they anticipate may arise, but does not exist, does not create a justiciable controversy.  (Stonehouse Homes v. City of Sierra Madre (2008) 167 Cal.App.4th 531, 542.)  As submitted by Cross-Complainants’ opposition, Cross-Complainants are unsure of who lays claim to the Karen Property.  Cross-Complainants asserted that they made the claim against Mohammadzadeh on the Karen Property based upon her son’s claim that she has ownership interest in thirteen properties involved in the Joint Venture.  However, Cross-Complainants did not argue or provide facts showing that Mohammadzadeh is claiming interest in the Karen Property.  The facts provided/asserted by Cross-Complainants do not show how the pleading defect can be cured. 
Cross-Complainants attached the Court’s ruling on other Cross-Defendants’ Demurrers and MTS against the Second Amended Cross-Complaint.  It should be noted that the citation to the prior ruling is inapplicable to the instant demurrer to the sixteenth COA for quiet title because the other demurrers did not place into issue the sixteenth COA.
Mohammadzadeh’s demurrer to the sixteenth COA is SUSTAINED WITHOUT LEAVE TO AMEND. 
The seventeenth COA for declaratory relief seeks a judicial declaration over the controversy related to the Joint Venture and the Karen Property.  (TAXC pars. 174-177.)  Because the actual controversy is based upon disputes over the Joint Venture and the disputes related to the Joint Venture are not yet sufficiently pled (as reviewed above), the demurrer to the declaratory relief claim must also sustained, in kind with the sixth, eighth, and tenth COAs.
The demurrer to the seventeenth COA is SUSTAINED WITH LEAVE TO AMEND.
The fact that the seventeenth COA also involves the alleged dispute over the Karen Property cannot be grounds to deny leave to amend because demurrers are not permitted to be against only parts of a COA.  The fact that a portion of the COA can be amended is sufficient to allow Cross-Complainants leave to amend, at least to the claims related to the Joint Venture. 
As to the motion to strike, the prayer to the TAXC provided that punitive damages and attorneys’ fees are requested, relevant to Mohammadzadeh and the instant demurrer and motion to strike, under the second and eighth COAs.  As provided above, the second COA for breach of contract is not alleged against Mohammadzadeh.  Because the second COA is not alleged Mohammadzadeh, the request for punitive damages and fees under the second COA is inapplicable to Mohammadzadeh.  As to the eighth COA for quantum meruit, the Court sustained the demurrer with leave to amend as to this COA.  Without sufficient pleading on the eighth COA, there is not yet seen a valid claim to support punitive damages or fees.  The motion to strike the request for punitive damages and fees under the eighth COA is MOOT due to the sustaining of the demurrer to the eight COA.
The TAXC also requested attorneys’ fees under “all causes of action” and “to the extent not provided above, and authorized by statute or otherwise”.  (TAXC pg. 39:19-20.)  Again, all other claims relevant to Mohammadzadeh are insufficiently pled as reviewed in the demurrer.  In that a valid COA has yet to be sufficiently pled, the motion to strike fees requested under any other grounds is also MOOT. 
IT IS SO ORDERED, CLERK TO GIVE NOTICE.