  Case Number:  22STCV38179    Hearing Date:   May 8, 2024    Dept:  51 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Upinder S.
Kalra, Department 51
 
HEARING DATE:   May
8, 2024                                        
 
CASE NAME:           D.L. v. DOE 1, et al. 
 
CASE NO.:                22STCV38179

 
DEMURRER
WITH MOTION TO STRIKE

 
MOVING PARTY: Defendant DOE 1 
 
RESPONDING PARTY(S): Plaintiff D.L
 
REQUESTED RELIEF: 
 
1.      An
order sustaining the demurrer.
2.      An
order striking various portions. 
TENTATIVE RULING: 
 
1.      Demurrer
is OVERRULED. 
2.      Motion
to Strike is DENIED. 
STATEMENT OF MATERIAL FACTS AND/OR PROCEEDINGS: 
On December 7, 2022, Plaintiff D.L. (“Plaintiff”) filed a Complaint
against Defendants DOE 1, a New York Corporation, and DOE 2, a California
nonprofit corporation (Defendants) for the following causes of action: (1)
Negligent Hiring, Supervision, and Retention; (2) Negligent Supervision of a
Minor, and (3) Negligence. 
 
On August 7, 2023, Defendant DOE 1 filed a motion to strike portions
of the Complaint. 
 
On August 8, 2023, Defendant DOE 1 filed a demurrer to the
Complaint. 
 
On October 23, 2023, Plaintiff filed a First Amended
Complaint (FAC) with the same three causes of action. 
 
On November 28, 2023, Defendant DOE 1 filed a demurrer and
motion to strike portions for the FAC. The Court sustained the demurrer, denied
the motion to strike as moot, and granted Plaintiff leave to file an amended
complaint. 
On February 29, 2024, Plaintiff filed the operative Second
Amended Complaint with the same three causes of action. 
 
The SAC brings an action to recover damages on behalf of an
adult victim of childhood sexual assault pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure §
340.1. SAC alleges that Lowell Banks (Banks), now deceased, met Plaintiff
through Defendants’ Highland Park Congregation, where Banks held a position of
authority. Plaintiff alleges that Defendants failed to warn them about Banks'
history of inappropriate behavior with minors, which led to plaintiff's sexual
assault, and that DOE 1 had records of Banks' prior sexual misconduct but chose
to keep them hidden to protect DOE 1’s reputation.
 
On May 30, 2023, Defendant filed a Demurrer with a Motion to
Strike. On May 31, 2023, Plaintiff filed an Opposition to the Demurrer. On June
2, 2023, Plaintiff filed an Opposition to the Motion to Strike. 
 
 
LEGAL STANDARD 
 
Request for Judicial
Notice
 
The Court DENIES Defendant’s request for judicial notice of
fact. The court grants Plaintiff’s request for judicial notice as to Exhibits
1, 2, and 3 under Evidence Code § 452(a), (c), and (h) as the documents were a
part of the statutory law of California. However, the court only takes judicial
notice of the forgoing documents as to “the existence, content, and
authenticity of public records and other specified documents”; it does not take
judicial notice of the truth of the factual matters asserted in those
documents. (Dominguez v. Bonta (2022)
87 Cal. App. 5th 389, 400.)
 
Demurrer
 
A demurrer for sufficiency tests whether
the complaint states a cause of action. (Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747.) When
considering demurrers, courts read the allegations liberally and in
context. In a demurrer proceeding, the defects must be apparent on the
face of the pleading or via proper judicial notice. (Donabedian v. Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968,
994.) “A demurrer tests the pleadings alone and not the evidence or other
extrinsic matters. …. The only issue involved in a demurrer hearing is whether
the complaint, as it stands, unconnected with extraneous matters, states a
cause of action.” (Hahn 147
Cal.App.4th at 747.)
 
Motion to Strike
 
The court may, upon a motion, or at any time in its
discretion, and upon terms it deems proper, strike any irrelevant, false, or
improper matter inserted in any pleading. (Code Civ. Proc., § 436(a).) The
court may also strike all or any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in
conformity with the laws of this state, a court rule, or an order of the court.
(Id., § 436(b).) The grounds for
moving to strike must appear on the face of the pleading or by way of judicial
notice. (Id. § 437.) “When
the defect which justifies striking a complaint is capable of cure, the court
should allow leave to amend.” (Vaccaro v.
Kaiman (1998) 63 Cal.App.4th 761, 768.)
 
Meet and Confer: 
 
Prior to filing a demurrer, the demurring party is required
to satisfy their meet and confer obligations pursuant to Code of Civ. Proc.
§430.41, and demonstrate that they so satisfied their meet and confer
obligation by submitting a declaration pursuant to Code of Civ. Proc.
§430.41(a)(2) & (3). The Declaration of Defendant DOE
1’s counsel indicates that the parties met and conferred telephonically on
February 16, 2024. (Declaration of Brian D. Walters ¶ 4.) The parties were
unable to reach an agreement on DOE 1’s issues, necessitating the instant
motion. (Id.)
 
ANALYSIS: 
 
Defendant demurs on two grounds. First, the SAC has not
sufficiently pled prior knowledge by DOE 1 of Banks misconduct that created a
risk of childhood sexual assault. Second, Plaintiff has not sufficiently pled
that knowledge by DOE 1 that the failure to take reasonable safeguards to avoid
acts of childhood sexual assault led to Bank’s sexual assault of Plaintiff. 
Code of Civil Procedure
section 340.1. The most current iteration of the statute provides in relevant
part:  
 
“(a) There
is no time limit for the commencement of any of the following
actions for recovery of damages suffered as a
result of childhood sexual assault: 
(1) An action against any person for
committing an act of childhood sexual assault. 
(2) An action for liability against any
person or entity who owed a duty of care to the plaintiff, if a wrongful or
negligent act by that person or entity was a legal cause of the childhood
sexual assault that resulted in the injury to the plaintiff. 
(3) An action for liability against any
person or entity if an intentional act by that person or entity was a legal
cause of the childhood sexual assault that resulted in the injury to the
plaintiff. 
…
(p) This section applies to any claim
in which the childhood sexual assault occurred on and after January 1, 2024.
Notwithstanding any other law, a claim for
damages based on conduct described in paragraphs (1) through (3), inclusive, of
subdivision (a), in which
the childhood sexual assault occurred on or before December 31, 2023 may only
be commenced pursuant to the applicable
statute of limitations set
forth in existing law as it read on December 31, 2023. 
 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 340.1.) 
 
 
1.      Knowledge
of Banks’ Risk for Childhood Sexual Assault  
DOE 1 argues that the SAC has not pled sufficient non-conclusory
facts to plead that DOE 1 has knowledge of any misconduct by Banks that created
a risk of childhood sexual assault. DOE 1 contends that Plaintiff SAC has
failed to improve from the FAC because the complaint still contains conclusory
statements that do not give rise to the cause of action. Defendant cites to Santillan v. Roman Cath. Bishop of Fresno
and Doe v. City of Los Angeles, where
the courts held that an entity being sued for acts of molestation by its agent
or employee must have had either actual or constructive knowledge or notice of
the perpetrator’s unlawful sexual conduct. (Doe
v. City of Los Angeles (2007) 42 Cal.4th 531; Santillan v. Roman Cath. Bishop of Fresno, (2012) 202 Cal.App.4th
708, 717–18.)
 
Plaintiff argues that she sufficiently alleged that DOE 1 had
knowledge and notice of Banks’ prior inappropriate and sexual misconduct of
minors through DOE 1’s database and recording policies and procedures prior to
Bank’s abuse of Plaintiff and does not need show actual knowledge/notice of
unlawful sexual misconduct. 
 
Here, the Court finds that DOE 1’s argument is without
merit. First, the SAC does plead that DOE 1 had actual knowledge because it
alleges that DOE 1 had records of Banks' prior sexual misconduct but chose to
keep them hidden to protect DOE 1’s reputation. (SAC ¶ 30.) The SAC further
alleges that DOE 1 had policies in place that prohibited disclosure to the
police when they were informed of or knew about allegations or reports of childhood
sexual abuse. (Id. ¶ 25.) Moreover,
it appears that DOE 1 misconstrues the Court’s February 9, 2024 Minute Order.
The Court sustained the demurrer of the FAC because it only contained boilerplate
language that lacked minimal information, which rendered the allegations
conclusory. (See. 02/09/24 Minute Order.) The SAC by contrast, does provide more
factual assertions on the how, when, where, or under what circumstances DOE 1
obtained knowledge because the SAC alleges that “DOE 1 received and compiled
records of reports, complaints, and allegations of prior inappropriate conduct
by Banks with minors before Plaintiff’s abuse began in approximately 1958.” (Id.) DOE 1’s reliance on Pridonoff to support its contention that
the SAC only contains conclusory allegations is misplaced. As stated above, a
demurrer can only rely on the complaint and any judicially noticed documents. During
the pleading stage, Plaintiff need not fully allege the information upon which
these statements are made. Taking the allegations as true, the SAC alleges that
DOE 1 was aware of Bank’s prior conduct because it kept records that it failed
to disclose to the congregation. Factual disputes surrounding the basis of the
Plaintiff’s allegation are more properly reserved for the discovery phase of
the litigation, but for the purposes of a demurrer, the SAC does sufficiently plead
that DOE did have knowledge of Banks’s unlawful conduct. 
 
Accordingly, Plaintiff has sufficiently alleged knowledge by
Defendant. 
 
2.      Reasonable
safeguards  
DOE 1 similarly argues that the SAC has not sufficiently
alleged Defendant’s failure to take reasonable steps or implement reasonable
safeguards to avoid acts of childhood sexual assault by using non-conclusory
facts.
 
Plaintiff argues that DOE 1 failed to take reasonable steps
to implement or enforce reasonable safeguards to prevent childhood sexual
assaults because DOE 1’s policies and procedures were antithetical and inhibited
investigation, prevention, and dissemination that a reasonable employer would
have implemented to prevent childhood assaults by continuing to employ Banks
despite its knowledge of his pedophilic past and completely failed to supervise
him. 
            
The Court finds that DOE 1’s argument fails. The SAC alleges
that DOE 1 did not implement reasonable safeguards because its policies
prevented disclosure of Banks' past sexual misconduct with minors to protect
their reputation. (SAC ¶ 31.) In fact, the SAC alleges that “DOE 1 expressly
prohibited any dissemination of Banks’ known pedophilic tendencies, prior
reports and complaints of inappropriate conduct with minors, or warning to
congregants about Banks’ known prior abuse and inappropriate conduct including
to Plaintiff’s parents prior to Banks’ abuse of Plaintiff.” (Id.) At the beginning of the factual
allegations, the SAC asserts that “DOE 1 [established a] mandatory processes
for the discipline of members accused of wrongdoing, including sexual abuse of
minors… An Elder is subject to church discipline for any misdeeds that occurred
in church or in the Elder’s personal life.” (Id. ¶ 22.) The SAC further alleges that “DOE 1 also mandated that
if an employee such as Banks was suspected of child abuse and moved to another
congregation, then the new congregation should not be informed of the prior
abuse and/or investigation by the prior congregation.” (Id. ¶ 23.) Taken together, Plaintiff’s allegations contend that DOE
1’s policy was antithetical to providing reasonable safeguards because the
policies essentially stymied investigation, prevention, and dissemination
efforts that could have stopped further abuse. 
 
Thus, Defendant DOE 1’s argument fails. 
 
            Demurrer
is OVERRULED. 
 
Motion to
Strike: 
 
Defendant DOE 1 requests that the following be stricken from
the Complaint:
 
1. Paragraph 25 as follows “…then
not only would DOE 1 forbid its other Elders and
members from informing the
police….”;
2. Paragraph 25 as follows: “…and
warn individual parents of DOE 3’s dangerous
propensities…”;
3. Paragraph 32 as follows: “…ever
warn Plaintiff or her parents about the prior known
reports, allegations, and
complaints of Banks’ dangerous propensities towards
minors…”;
4. Paragraph 33 as follows: “…and
failed to take any remedial action.”;
5. Paragraph 35 in its entirety;
6. Paragraph 38 subsection (c) in
its entirety;
7. Paragraph 39 subsection (c) in
its entirety;
8. Paragraph 48 in its entirety;
9. Paragraph 50 as follows “…but
failed and/or refused to take any affirmative action,
including but not limited to
notifying law enforcement.”
 
Defendant’s basis for striking these portions are: (1) Plaintiff
alleges conduct that occurred after the alleged abuse, which is barred by the statute
of limitations under CCP § 436; (2) the allegations failed to report the
alleged abuse to either members of the congregation or law enforcement agencies
is not in conformity with the law; and (3) the allegations provide for
disclosure of confidential information protected under clergy/penitent
privilege. The Court disagrees, noting the arguments raised
before. Moreover, the Court agrees with the Plaintiff that the portions cited
are relevant to the claims asserted. Finally, the assertion of clergy-penitent
privilege is irrelevant and disingenuous because privilege only applies to statements
made for the purpose of receiving penitence and would have no applicability to
the portions cited. 
 
Therefore, the Motion to Strike
is DENIED. 
 
CONCLUSION: 
 
For the foregoing reasons, the
Court decides the pending motion as follows:
 
            Demurrer is
OVERRULED. Motion to Strike is DENIED. Defendant DOE 1 is to provide an Answer
within 20 days. 
 
Moving party is to give notice. 
 
IT IS SO ORDERED. 
 
Dated:             May 8,
2024                            _______­­­­­­­­­­___________________________                                                                                                                Upinder
S. Kalra
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court
 