 Case Number:  23STCV21986    Hearing Date:   May 8, 2024    Dept:  51 Tentative Ruling   Judge Upinder S.  Kalra, Department 51   HEARING DATE:   May  8, 2024                                           CASE NAME:           S.T. v. Eric Weinberg, et al.   CASE NO.:                23STCV21986    DEMURRER  TO FIRST AMENDED COMPLAINT    MOVING PARTY: Defendant Liquid Theory, Inc.    RESPONDING PARTY(S): Plaintiff S.T.   REQUESTED RELIEF:    1.      Demurrer  to the Third Cause of Action for Sexual Harassment because the Complaint is  barred by the statute of limitations and for failure to state sufficient facts  to revive Plaintiff’s claims; 2.      Demurrer  to the Ninth Cause of Action for Negligence because the Complaint is barred by  the statute of limitations and for failure to state sufficient facts to revive  Plaintiff’s claims; 3.      Demurrer  to the Eleventh Cause of Action for Aiding and Abetting because the Complaint  is barred by the statute of limitations and for failure to state sufficient  facts to revive Plaintiff’s claims and plead that Liquid Theory had specific  intent. TENTATIVE RULING:    1.      Liquid  Theory’s Demurrer to the Third, Ninth and Eleventh Causes of Action is  SUSTAINED WITHOUT LEAVE TO AMEND. STATEMENT OF MATERIAL FACTS AND/OR PROCEEDINGS: On September 12, 2023, Plaintiff S.T. (“Plaintiff”) filed a  complaint against Defendants Eric Weinberg (“Weinberg”), Guitar and Pen  Productions, Inc. (“G&P”), MTV Networks (“MTV”), and Liquid Theory, Inc.  (“Liquid Theory”) alleging eleven causes of action for: (1) Sexual Assault, (2)  Sexual Battery, (3) Sexual Harassment, (4) Gender Violence, (5) False  Imprisonment, (6) Assault, (7) Battery, (8) Intentional Inflection of Emotional  Distress, (9) Negligence, (10) Respondeat Superior, and (11) Aiding and  Abetting. According to the FAC, Weinberg sexually assaulted and  harassed Plaintiff while she was a working actress on MTV’s show Death Valley and after she left the  show. Liquid Theory maintained a professional working relationship with  Weinberg directly and by and through Defendant G&P by entering into  agreements for Weinberg to serve as creator, producer and/or writer for shows  it produced, distributed and/or controlled the creation and filming of,  including but not limited to Death Valley at or around 2011. (FAC ¶ 13.) On February 5, 2024, the Court sustained MTV’s demurrer to  the Complaint as to the Third cause of action for Sexual Harassment, Ninth  cause of action for Negligence, and Eleventh cause of action for Aiding and  Abetting, on the grounds that each claim is barred by the statute of  limitations and for failure to state sufficient facts to constitute a cause of  action.  On February 23, 2024, Plaintiff filed the operative First  Amended Complaint (“FAC”), which alleges the same eleven causes of action as  the original complaint.  On March 26, 2024, Liquid Theory filed the instant demurrer to the Third, Ninth and Eleventh  causes of action for Sexual Harassment, Negligence, and Aiding and Abetting.  Plaintiff filed an opposition on April 25, 2024, and MTV replied on May 1,  2024.   LEGAL STANDARD: The grounds for a demurrer must appear on the face of the  pleading or from judicially noticeable matters. (Code Civ. Proc. § 430.30(a); Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311,  318.) A demurrer for sufficiency tests whether the complaint states a cause of  action. (Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147  Cal.App.4th 740, 747.) The only issue involved in a demurrer hearing is whether  the complaint states a cause of action. (Ibid.) A demurrer assumes the truth of all factual, material  allegations properly pled in the challenged pleading. (Blank, supra, 39 Cal. 3d  at p. 318.) No matter how unlikely or improbable, the plaintiff’s allegations  must be accepted as true for the purpose of ruling on the demurrer. (Del E. Webb Corp. v. Structural Materials  Co. (1981) 123 Cal.App.3d 593, 604.) But this does not include contentions;  deductions; conclusions of fact or law alleged in the complaint; facts  impossible in law; or allegations contrary to facts of which a court may take  judicial notice. (Blank, supra, 39 Cal.3d at p. 318.) Pursuant to Code Civ. Proc. §§ 430.10(e), the party against  whom a complaint has been filed may demur to the pleading on the grounds that  the pleading does not state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action.  It is an abuse of discretion to sustain a demurrer if there is a reasonable  probability that the defect can be cured by amendment. (Hahn, supra, 31 Cal.4th  at p. 745.)   Meet and Confer  Prior to filing a demurrer, the demurring  party is required to satisfy their meet and confer obligations pursuant to Code  of Civ. Proc. (CCP) §430.41 and demonstrate that they so satisfied their meet  and confer obligation by submitting a declaration pursuant to CCP §430.41(a)(2)  and (3). Here, according to the Declaration of Michon Spinelli, the  parties met and conferred via email and telephonically on March 26, 2024. (Spinelli  Decl. ¶ 3.) The parties were unable to reach an agreement. (Id. at ¶ 4.) Accordingly, the meet and  confer requirement is met.  ANALYSIS:    Statute of  Limitations Liquid Theory argues that Plaintiff’s claims are time-barred  pursuant to CCP §§ 335.1. In the opposition, Plaintiff argues that her claims  were revived by CCP §340.16(b) and (e). CCP § 340.16 provides in relevant parts:   (a) In any civil action for  recovery of damages suffered as a result of sexual assault, . . . the time for  commencement of the action shall be the later of the following: (1) Within 10 years from the  date of the last act, attempted act, or assault with the intent to commit an  act, of sexual assault against the plaintiff. (2) Within three years from  the date the plaintiff discovers or reasonably should have discovered that an  injury or illness resulted from an act, attempted act, or assault with the  intent to commit an act, of sexual assault against the plaintiff. (b) . . . (3) This section  applies to any action described in subdivision (a) that is based upon conduct  that occurred on or after January 1, 2009, and is commenced on or after January  1, 2019, that would have been barred solely because the applicable statute of limitations  has or had expired. Such claims are hereby revived and may be commenced until  December 31, 2026. (e) (1) Notwithstanding any  other law, any claim seeking to recover damages suffered as a result of a  sexual assault . . . that would otherwise be barred before January 1, 2023,  solely because the applicable statute of limitations has or had expired, is hereby  revived, and a cause of action . . . may be commenced between January 1, 2023,  and December 31, 2023. (2) This subdivision revives  claims brought by a plaintiff who alleges all of the following: (A) The plaintiff was  sexually assaulted. (B) One or more entities are  legally responsible for damages arising out of the sexual assault. (C) The entity or entities,  including, but not limited to, their officers, directors, representatives,  employees, or agents, engaged in a cover up or attempted a cover up of a  previous instance or allegations of sexual assault by an alleged perpetrator of  such abuse. . . . (4) For purposes of this  subdivision: (A) “Cover up” means a  concerted effort to hide evidence relating to a sexual assault that  incentivizes individuals to remain silent or prevents information relating to a  sexual assault from becoming public or being disclosed to the plaintiff,  including, but not limited to, the use of nondisclosure agreements or  confidentiality agreements. . . . (C) “Legally responsible”  means that the entity or entities are liable under any theory of liability  established by statute or common law, including, but not limited to,  negligence, intentional torts, and vicarious liability. (5) This subdivision revives  any related claims, including, but not limited to, wrongful termination and  sexual harassment, arising out of the sexual assault that is the basis for a  claim pursuant to this subdivision.   Subsection (e) Defendant MTV’s demurrer to the original complaint was  sustained on the ground that Plaintiff failed to sufficiently plead the cover-up  requirement for CCP § 340.16(e). In the FAC, Plaintiff added allegations that  MTV attempted to cover up two instances of sexual assault. (See FAC ¶ 7b.) Plaintiff  also added allegations that Liquid Theory covered up past incidents. Paragraph  7c of the FAC states, in its entirety:   “Plaintiff is informed and  believes and thereon alleges that prior to February 2011, Defendant LIQUID  THEORY, INC. including by its officers, directors, representatives, employees,  and/or agents, engaged in a cover up or attempted a cover up of a previous  instance or allegations of sexual assault by an alleged perpetrator of such  abuse. This cover up by LIQUID THEORY, INC. including by its officers,  directors, representatives, employees, and/or agents included a concerted  effort to hide evidence relating to a sexual assault that incentivizes  individuals to remain silent or prevents information relating to a sexual  assault from becoming public or being disclosed to the plaintiff, including,  but not limited to, the use of nondisclosure agreements or confidentiality  agreements.”   In its demurrer, Liquid Theory argues that the cover-up  allegations in the FAC are conclusory and do not include any specific facts.  Indeed, Plaintiff’s allegations of cover-up by Liquid Theory merely repeats the  statutory language codified in CCP § 340.16(e). To survive a demurrer, a  complaint must “allege facts  sufficient to state a cause of action”. (See, e.g., C.A. v. William S. Hart Union High School Dist. (2012) 53 Cal. 4th  861, 872 [emphasis added].) Here, the only facts that Plaintiff alleges as to  Liquid Theory are the following: Liquid Theory “maintained a professional  working relationship with Weinberg” (FAC ¶ 13); Liquid Theory failed to  investigate once it discovered Weinberg’s sexual assault of Plaintiff on the  set of Death Valley (FAC ¶¶ 14, 30); Liquid Theory controlled and operated the  Death Valley production (FAC ¶ 56); and Liquid Theory contracted with Weinberg  knowing that he was a sexual predator (FAC ¶¶ 99, 113). Plaintiff does not  provide any factual basis for claiming that Liquid Theory previously covered up  sexual assault. Even at the demurrer stage, a plaintiff must allege facts to  support their causes of action. If the only requirement was to list the  statutory elements of each claim, no demurrer would ever be sustained. Plaintiff has failed to plead sufficient facts to allege a  cover-up within the meaning of CCP § 340.16(e). Subsection (e) cannot revive  Plaintiff’s claims against Liquid Theory.   Subsection (b)   In her opposition, Plaintiff contends that CCP § 340.16(b)  also revives Plaintiff’s claims against Liquid Theory. To support this  argument, Plaintiff cites to dicta in the Court of Appeal’s decision in Jane Doe #21 (S.H.) v. CFR Enterprises, Inc.  (2011) 93 Cal.App.5th 1199. Footnote 11 of the Jane Doe #21 decision states: “the causes of action permitted under  subdivision (a) include “causes of action against persons or entities other  than the alleged person who committed the” alleged sexual assault or battery.  (§ 340.16, subd. (b)(2).)” In reply, Liquid Theory contends that the revival provision  of Subsection (b) is more limited than that of Subsection (e). Specifically,  Subsection (b) is narrower in that it limits revival to claims for “sexual  assault”, which is specifically defined as “any of the crimes described in  Section 243.4, 261, 264.1, 286, 287, or 289, or former Sections 262 and 288a,  of the Penal Code, assault with the intent to commit any of those crimes, or an  attempt to commit any of those crimes.” (CCP § 340.16(b)(1).) Subsection (b)  does not revive “related claims” such as Plaintiff’s claims against Liquid  Theory. Liquid Theory cites to the August 25, 2022 Assembly Floor Analysis for  AB 2777. It appears that the Legislature intended that Subsection (b) only  “revives claims for sexual assault”, whereas Subsection (e) is meant to revive  “any claim seeking to recover damages suffered as a result of a sexual  assault.” (AB 2777 Assem. Floor Analysis, Aug. 25, 2022, ¶¶3-4.) Liquid Theory also points out that unlike Subsection (b),  Subsection (e) unambiguously sets specific revival requirements for  non-perpetrator entity defendants. This distinction is persuasive. The Court  agrees with Liquid Theory that, to adopt Subsection (b)’s standards as applying  to non-perpetrator entities, when there are more detailed, specific, and  later-adopted provisions under subsection (e) which do address non-perpetrator  entities, would be to reject basic tenets of statutory construction. (See, e.g.,  Arbuckle-Coll. City Fire Prot. Dist. v.  Cnty. of Colusa (2003) 105 Cal.App.4th 1155, 1166 (2003) [it is “presumed  that when the Legislature has enacted a specific statute to deal with a  particular matter, it would intend the specific statute to control over more  general provisions of law that might otherwise apply”].) Therefore, there is no basis for revival of Plaintiff’s  claims against Liquid Theory under CCP § 340.16(b).    No part of CCP § 340.16 provides for the revival of  Plaintiff’s claims.    Accordingly, Plaintiff’s claims against Liquid Theory are  time-barred.   CONCLUSION: For the foregoing reasons, the Court decides the pending  motion as follows:    Defendant Liquid Theory’s Demurrer to the Third, Ninth, and  Eleventh Causes of Action are  SUSTAINED WITHOUT LEAVE TO AMEND.   Moving party is to give notice.    IT IS SO ORDERED.    Dated:              May 8, 2024                                        __________________________________                                                                                                                Upinder  S. Kalra                                                                                                             Judge of the Superior Court  Tentative Ruling   Judge Upinder S.  Kalra, Department 51   HEARING DATE:   May  8, 2024                                           CASE NAME:           S.T. v. Eric Weinberg, et al.   CASE NO.:                23STCV21986    DEMURRER  TO FIRST AMENDED COMPLAINT    MOVING PARTY: Defendant MTV Networks Company (erroneously  sued as “MTV Network, Inc.”)   RESPONDING PARTY(S): Plaintiff S.T.   REQUESTED RELIEF:    1.      Demurrer  to the Third Cause of Action for Sexual Harassment because the Complaint is  barred by the statute of limitations and for failure to state sufficient facts  to constitute a cause of action; 2.      Demurrer  to the Ninth Cause of Action for Negligence because the Complaint is barred by  the statute of limitations and for failure to state sufficient facts to  constitute a cause of action; 3.      Demurrer  to the Eleventh Cause of Action for Aiding and Abetting because the Complaint  is barred by the statute of limitations and for failure to state sufficient  facts to constitute a cause of action. TENTATIVE RULING:    1.      MTV’s  Demurrer to the Third Cause of Action is SUSTAINED with leave to amend and and  Eleventh Cause of Action  is SUSTAINED without  leave to amend. 2.      MTV’s  Demurrer to the Ninth Cause of Action is OVERRULED.  STATEMENT OF MATERIAL FACTS AND/OR PROCEEDINGS:    On September 12, 2023, Plaintiff S.T. (“Plaintiff”) filed a  complaint against Defendants Eric Weinberg (“Weinberg”), Guitar and Pen  Productions, Inc. (“G&P”), MTV Networks (“MTV”), and Liquid Theory, Inc.  (“Liquid Theory”) alleging eleven causes of action for: (1) Sexual Assault, (2)  Sexual Battery, (3) Sexual Harassment, (4) Gender Violence, (5) False  Imprisonment, (6) Assault, (7) Battery, (8) Intentional Inflection of Emotional  Distress, (9) Negligence, (10) Respondeat Superior, and (11) Aiding and Abetting.   According to the FAC, Weinberg sexually assaulted and  harassed Plaintiff while she was a working actress on MTV’s show Death Valley and after she left the  show.    On February 5, 2024, the Court sustained MTV’s demurrer to  the Complaint as to the Third cause of action for Sexual Harassment, Ninth  cause of action for Negligence, and Eleventh cause of action for Aiding and  Abetting, on the grounds that each claim is barred by the statute of  limitations and for failure to state sufficient facts to constitute a cause of  action.  On February 23, 2024, Plaintiff filed the operative First  Amended Complaint (“FAC”), which alleges the same eleven causes of action as  the original complaint.  On March 26, 2024, MTV filed the instant demurrer to, once  again, the Third, Ninth and Eleventh causes of action for Sexual Harassment,  Negligence, and Aiding and Abetting. Plaintiff filed an opposition on April 25,  2024, and MTV replied on May 1, 2024.   LEGAL STANDARD:    The grounds for a demurrer must appear on the face of the  pleading or from judicially noticeable matters. (Code Civ. Proc. § 430.30(a); Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311,  318.) A demurrer for sufficiency tests whether the complaint states a cause of  action. (Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147  Cal.App.4th 740, 747.) The only issue involved in a demurrer hearing is whether  the complaint states a cause of action. (Ibid.)   A demurrer assumes the truth of all factual, material  allegations properly pled in the challenged pleading. (Blank, supra, 39 Cal. 3d  at p. 318.) No matter how unlikely or improbable, the plaintiff’s allegations  must be accepted as true for the purpose of ruling on the demurrer. (Del E. Webb Corp. v. Structural Materials  Co. (1981) 123 Cal.App.3d 593, 604.) But this does not include contentions;  deductions; conclusions of fact or law alleged in the complaint; facts  impossible in law; or allegations contrary to facts of which a court may take  judicial notice. (Blank, supra, 39 Cal.3d at p. 318.)    Pursuant to Code Civ. Proc. §§ 430.10(e), the party against  whom a complaint has been filed may demur to the pleading on the grounds that  the pleading does not state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action.  It is an abuse of discretion to sustain a demurrer if there is a reasonable  probability that the defect can be cured by amendment. (Hahn, supra, 31 Cal.4th  at p. 745.)   Meet and Confer  Prior to filing a demurrer, the demurring  party is required to satisfy their meet and confer obligations pursuant to Code  of Civ. Proc. (CCP) §430.41 and demonstrate that they so satisfied their meet  and confer obligation by submitting a declaration pursuant to CCP §430.41(a)(2)  and (3). Here, according to the Declaration of Emma Luevano, the parties  met and conferred via mail on March 15, 2024 and telephonically on March 20,  2024. (Luevano Decl. ¶¶ 3, 4.) The parties were unable to reach and agreement.  (Id. at ¶ 4.) Accordingly, the meet and  confer requirement is met.  ANALYSIS:    Statute of  Limitations   MTV argues that Plaintiff’s claims are time-barred pursuant  to CCP §§ 335.1. In the opposition, Plaintiff argues that her claims were  revived by CCP §340.16(b) and (e).    CCP § 340.16 provides in relevant parts:   (a) In any civil action for  recovery of damages suffered as a result of sexual assault, . . . the time for  commencement of the action shall be the later of the following: (1) Within 10 years from the  date of the last act, attempted act, or assault with the intent to commit an  act, of sexual assault against the plaintiff. (2) Within three years from  the date the plaintiff discovers or reasonably should have discovered that an  injury or illness resulted from an act, attempted act, or assault with the  intent to commit an act, of sexual assault against the plaintiff. (b) . . . (3) This section  applies to any action described in subdivision (a) that is based upon conduct  that occurred on or after January 1, 2009, and is commenced on or after January  1, 2019, that would have been barred solely because the applicable statute of limitations  has or had expired. Such claims are hereby revived and may be commenced until  December 31, 2026. (e) (1) Notwithstanding any  other law, any claim seeking to recover damages suffered as a result of a  sexual assault . . . that would otherwise be barred before January 1, 2023,  solely because the applicable statute of limitations has or had expired, is hereby  revived, and a cause of action . . . may be commenced between January 1, 2023,  and December 31, 2023. (2) This subdivision revives  claims brought by a plaintiff who alleges all of the following: (A) The plaintiff was  sexually assaulted. (B) One or more entities are legally  responsible for damages arising out of the sexual assault. (C) The entity or entities,  including, but not limited to, their officers, directors, representatives,  employees, or agents, engaged in a cover up or attempted a cover up of a  previous instance or allegations of sexual assault by an alleged perpetrator of  such abuse. . . . (4) For purposes of this  subdivision: (A) “Cover up” means a  concerted effort to hide evidence relating to a sexual assault that  incentivizes individuals to remain silent or prevents information relating to a  sexual assault from becoming public or being disclosed to the plaintiff,  including, but not limited to, the use of nondisclosure agreements or  confidentiality agreements. . . . (C) “Legally responsible”  means that the entity or entities are liable under any theory of liability  established by statute or common law, including, but not limited to,  negligence, intentional torts, and vicarious liability. (5) This subdivision revives  any related claims, including, but not limited to, wrongful termination and  sexual harassment, arising out of the sexual assault that is the basis for a  claim pursuant to this subdivision.   Subsection (e)   MTV’s demurrer to the original complaint was sustained on  the ground that Plaintiff failed to sufficiently plead the cover-up requirement  for CCP § 340.16(e). In the FAC, Plaintiff added allegations of two cover-up  incidents. (See FAC ¶ 7b.) The first cover-up occurred during the 2003 season  of MTV’s reality show, The Real World: San Diego. (Id.) During filming for the show, a woman was raped in the Real  World house. (Id.) The woman made a  police report. (Id.) According to a  published search warrant application, an attorney for MTV restricted police  access to certain areas of the house and withheld documents and footage unless  a court order was obtained. (Id.) The  second cover-up occurred in 2009 and involved Tonya Cooely, a contestant in The  Real World/Road Rules Challenge. (Id.)  Plaintiff alleges that Cooley was raped with a toothbrush by fellow cast  members while intoxicated. (Id.)  Plaintiff alleges that thereafter, MTV did not tell Cooley about the assault  and removed the toothbrush. (Id.) MTV  later settled Cooley’s lawsuit and entered into a confidentiality agreement. (Id.)    In the present demurrer, MTV argues that the cover-up  allegations in the FAC are insufficient on three grounds. First, MTV argues  that the cover-ups are unrelated to Plaintiff’s claims. (Dem., 6:16-17  [“different victim, different show, different team”].) The Code does not  require that an alleged prior cover-up involve the same perpetrator or victim.  (See CCP § 340.16(e)(3)(C) [“engaged in a  cover up or attempted a cover up of a previous instance or allegations of  sexual assault by an alleged  perpetrator”]; emphasis added.) The court in Jane Doe #21 (S.H.) v. CFR Enterprises, Inc. (2011) 93 Cal.App.5th 1199  remarked that the statutory language is not ambiguous, and “nothing . . .  suggests the Legislature intended section 340.16(e) to require a plaintiff to  allege that defendants sought to cover up a prior assault committed by the same  perpetrator who later allegedly assaulted the plaintiff. (Jane Doe #21 at 1212 [fn 16].) Here, the incidents that Plaintiff  alleges MTV has covered up are sufficiently similar to Plaintiff’s situation.  Both victims in the cover-ups were women who appeared in television projects  broadcast by MTV, just like Plaintiff. [1]   Second, MTV argues that the 2003 and 2009 incidents were not  covered up because MTV made public statements about them, and details of those  events were and remain public. This argument is misleading. The Code defines  cover-up as “a concerted effort to hide evidence relating to a sexual assault  that incentivizes individuals to remain silent or prevents information relating  to a sexual assault from becoming public or being disclosed to the plaintiff,  including, but not limited to, the use of nondisclosure agreements or  confidentiality agreements.” (CCP § 340.16(e)(4)(A).) Moreover, Subsection (e)  clearly states that allegations of an attempted  cover up also suffice. (CCP § 340.16(e)(3)(C) [“engaged in a cover up or  attempted a cover up”].) MTV’s contention that it willingly revealed some  aspects of the prior incidents does not negate Plaintiff’s cover-up  allegations.    Third, MTV contends that the cover-up allegations in the FAC  lack specificity because they do not plead “who from MTV engaged in this  alleged concerted effort or when, why, or how MTV began to direct this alleged  concerted effort towards Plaintiff.” (Dem., 17:16-18.) The Court disagrees. The  FAC alleges that MTV “officers, directors, representatives, employees and/or  agents” removed the toothbrush that was used in the 2009 assault of Ms. Cooley,  publicly stated that Ms. Cooley was partially responsible for the assault, and  entered into a confidentiality agreement when settling Ms. Cooley’s claims.  (FAC ¶ 7b.) Subsection (e) expressly identifies confidentiality agreements as a  possible means of cover-up. (CCP § 340.16(e)(4)(A).) As to the 2003 cover-up,  the FAC alleges that the victim woke up to herself being filmed by “the  production’s camera crew”, and an “attorney for MTV” restricted police access  to certain areas of the house/filming location. (FAC, ¶ 7b.)   Cover up is sufficiently pled. Accordingly, CCP § 340.16(e)  revives Plaintiff’s claims.    Whether the FAC  states sufficient facts to constitute the causes of action   MTV argues in passing that, in addition to being barred by  the statute of limitations, Plaintiff’s causes of action against MTV are also fail  to state sufficient facts.    Sexual Harassment   There is no common law cause of action for action for sexual  harassment. (Myers v. Trendwest Resorts,  Inc. (2007) 148 Cal.App.4th 1403, 1426-1427 [“There is no common law cause  of action for sexual harassment, but conduct constituting sexual harassment may  be alleged in common law claims such as battery and intentional infliction of  emotional distress”]; Medix Ambulance  Service, Inc. v. Superior Court (2002) 97 Cal.App.4th 109, 118-119  [“plaintiff cites no authority supporting a common law cause of action for  sexual harassment”; “cause of action for sexual harassment is a creature of  statute”].)   Therefore, MTV’s demurrer as to the third cause of action  for Sexual Harassment is SUSTAINED with leave to amend.    Negligence   In order to state a claim for negligence, Plaintiff must  allege the elements of (1) “the existence of a legal duty of care,” (2) “breach  of that duty,” and (3) “proximate cause resulting in an injury.” (McIntyre v. Colonies-Pacific, LLC (2014)  228 Cal.App.4th 664, 671.) Here, the FAC alleges that MTV owed Plaintiff a duty  to exercise reasonable care in the hiring, supervision, and retention of its  personnel, and MTV breached that duty by hiring Weinberg, knowing that he is a  sexual predator. (FAC ¶¶ 96, 97, 99.) Plaintiff suffered damages as a result.  (FAC ¶ 100.) Plaintiff has sufficiently pled negligence.   In its demurrer, MTV argues summarily that Plaintiff’s  negligence claim is “governed exclusively by workers’ compensation.” (Notice of  Dem.; Dem., 12:13-16 [“Separately, if Plaintiff contends that MTV employed her,  then, the exclusive remedy for injuries suffered as a result of employer  negligence is workers’ compensation”].) Ordinarily, an employee’s rights  against his or her employer for on-the-job injuries lie solely under the  workers’ compensation law—i.e., when the “conditions of compensation” are present  (Labor Code § 3600), the employer is immune from civil damages liability  because workers’ compensation is the injured employee’s “exclusive remedy.” (Labor  Code §§ 3600, 3601, 3602(a).) The Court agrees with Plaintiff that MTV’s  argument is fact-based and premature at the demurrer stage.    Accordingly, MTV’s demurrer as to the ninth cause of action  for Negligence is OVERRULED.    Aiding and Abetting   The Court noted in its February 5, 2024 order granting MTV’s  demurrer to the original complaint that Aiding and Abetting is not a cause of  action, but rather a theory of liability. Plaintiff did not correct this in the  FAC and continues to assert Aiding and Abetting as a cause of action.    MTV’s demurrer as to the eleventh cause of action for Aiding  and Abetting is SUSTAINED without leave to amend.      CONCLUSION:   For the foregoing reasons, the Court decides the pending  motion as follows:    Defendant MTV’s Demurrer to the Third Cause of Action is  SUSTAINED WITH LEAVE TO AMEND and to the Eleventh Cause of Action WIHTOUT leave  to amend.   Defendant MTV’s Demurrer to the Ninth Cause of Action is OVERRULED.   Moving party is to give notice.    IT IS SO ORDERED.    Dated:              May 8, 2024                                        __________________________________                                                                                                                Upinder  S. Kalra                                                                                                             Judge of the Superior Court       