 Case Number:  23VECV03861    Hearing Date:   March 22, 2024    Dept:  T Zamorano
v Rowhanian 23VECV03861
Tentative
ruling: The Complex Department has declined to accept this case as a class
action as there is no case category called “putative class action.”  
[TENTATIVE]
ORDER:  Defendants Refresh Med Spa L.A.
and Dr. Kiarash Rowhanian’s Demurrer to the First Amended Complaint is
SUSTAINED WITHOUT LEAVE TO AMEND.
Introduction

Defendants
Refresh Med Spa L.A. (Refresh) and Dr. Kiarash Rowhanian (Rowhanian)
(collectively, Defendants) demurred to Plaintiff Danielle Zamorano’s
(Plaintiff) First Amended Complaint (FAC). 
Defendants placed into issue the first cause of action (COA) for
violation of the Consumer Legal Remedies Act (CLRA), Civil Code sec.1750 et
seq; the second COA for violation for the Unfair Competition Law (UCL) Business
and Professions Code sec. 17200; and the third COA for negligent
misrepresentation.
Discussion

Defendants
argued that Plaintiff failed to allege sufficient facts to plead reliance and
damages as to all three COAs.   The
pleading elements of the three COAs are found in: CACI no. 4700 (CLRA);
Cel-Tech Communications, Inc. v. Los Angeles Cellular Telephone Co. (1999) 20
Cal.4th 163, 179-180 (UCL); CACI no. 1903 (negligent misrepresentation).  Plaintiff asserted that the two elements are
sufficiently alleged with supportive facts and cited to FAC pars. 43 and 55
regarding reliance and FAC pars. 45 and 56 regarding damages. 
There
are no facts showing how Plaintiff relied upon Defendants’ alleged
representations when the claim is read together with Plaintiff’s allegation
showing that she only visited Defendants’ website and that Defendants sold and
injected the Unapproved Compounded Drug (UCD) to and into “consumers” and  “Defendants are injecting into their
patients” the UCD.  (FAC pars. 31, 33, 42
and 46.)  Plaintiff does not expressly
allege that she is Defendants’ patient, consumer, or that she was prescribed,
purchased, or injected with the UCD. 
Without more facts as to reliance, Plaintiff failed to allege sufficient
facts to support the element of reliance as to all the COAs.  
The
demurrer to all three COAs based upon the reliance argument is sustainable.
As to
the element of damages, Plaintiff argued that she was damaged in expending time
to research the veracity of Defendants’ claims. 
(FAC pars. 37, 42, 45, 56.) 
Plaintiff’s claim rests solely on the time expended to research
Defendants’ claims.  Such allegations are
insufficient to plead damages and/or standing as to the second COA for UCL and
the third COA for negligent misrepresentation. 
The failure to plead facts showing damages as to the second COA and
third COA is sufficient to sustain the demurrer.  
The
damages element under the first COA does not require a pleading of actual
damages.  (Hansen v. Newegg.com Americas,
Inc. (2018) 25 Cal.App.5th 714, 724; 
Veera v. Banana Republic, LLC (2016) 6 Cal.App.5th 907, 916, fn.
3.)  Defendants’ argument as to
insufficient fact pleading of the damages element under the CLRA COA only is
unpersuasive.
At
minimum, the demurrer to the second and third COA’s based upon insufficient
fact pleading the damages element is sustainable.
Plaintiff’s
opposition requested leave to amend but only relied upon the facts already
alleged in the FAC.  Plaintiff failed to
present any new facts to show how the identified defects in the FAC can be
cured.  It is Plaintiff’s burden to
submit facts to show an ability to cure the defects in order to be granted
leave to amend.  Plaintiff failed to meet
her burden and leave to amend is denied.
The
demurrer is SUSTAINED WITHOUT LEAVE TO AMEND. 

IT IS SO
ORDERED, CLERK TO GIVE NOTICE.  Defendants
to submit a proposed Judgment of Dismissal with service on plaintiff.  The court will hold the order for 10 days for
objection.
 
 
 