 Case Number:  24PSCV00909    Hearing Date:   October 24, 2024    Dept:  O Tentative Ruling
 
DEMURRER
OF DEFENDANTS SELENE FINANCE LP AND U.S. BANK TRUST NATIONAL ASSOCIATION, NOT
IN ITS INDIVIDUAL CAPACITY BUT SOLELY AS OWNER TRUSTEE FOR RCF 2 ACQUISITION
TRUST TO PLAINTIFF’S FIRST AMENDED COMPLAINT is SUSTAINED; leave to
amend is TBD. 
 
Background
 
This is a
wrongful foreclosure case. Plaintiff Cesar Javier alleges that Defendants
SELENE FINANCE, L.P. (“Selene Finance”) and U.S. BANK NATIONAL ASSOCIATION, NOT
IN ITS INDIVIDUAL CAPACITY, BUT SOLELY AS OWNER TRUSTEE FOR REF 2 ACQUISITION
TRUST (“US Bank”) violated various requirements set forth in the Homeowner Bill
of Rights statutes by recording a notice of default without first contacting
Plaintiff to discuss his financial situation and/or explore other options aside
from foreclosure.
 
On March 25,
2024, Plaintiff filed suit asserting the following causes of action (COAs): 1.    
Violation
Of Civ. Code § 2923.5 2.    
Violation
Of Civ. Code § 2923.7 3.    
Violation
Of Civ. Code § 2924.9 4.    
Violation
Of Civ. Code § 2924.10 5.    
Wrongful Foreclosure 6.    
Unfair
Business Practices, Violation Of Bus. & Prof. Code § 17200, Et Seq.
On May 23,
2024, Defendants filed a demurrer with a motion to strike (MTS), to which
Plaintiff filed an untimely opposition (due 6/13 but opposition was filed on
6/18). 
 
On June 27,
2024, the court held its hearing on the matter. According to the minute order,
Plaintiff’s Counsel telephonically contacted the court prior to the hearing to
submit on the tentative ruling. The court sustained the demurrer with leave to
amend, rendering the MTS moot. A first amended complaint (FAC) was due by
7/29/24.
 
On July 16,
2024, Plaintiff filed a FAC asserting the same COAs. (The complaint was 82 pages
with 65 substantive allegations and the FAC is 85 pages with 92 substantive
allegations.) 
On August 23,
2024, Defendant filed the instant demurrer (without an MTS) to the FAC.
 
On October
10, 2024, Plaintiff filed an opposition.
 
On October
17, 2024, Defendant filed a Reply. 
 
Discussion[1]
 
Defendant
again demurs to the entirety of the FAC on the grounds that the COAs are not
specifically pled nor support a material violation. For the sake of brevity,
the court directs the parties to the court’s 6/27/24 ruling for a thorough
discussion of the relevant authority. This ruling will focus on the principal
issue (again) raised in demurrer: whether Plaintiff has pled material violations of the asserted
statutes/claims. For reasons previously asserted, the court determines
Plaintiff’s FAC fails to allege so. 
 
Previously,
the court concluded the following:
 
Even if there were statutory violations, they appear immaterial as
Plaintiff’s (contradictory) complaint state[s] that he submitted a loan
modification application after the NOD was recorded (thus he was aware of
possible alternatives to foreclosure), that he was informed of missing
documents because his representative was in contact/had communications
with a Selene representative, and that the Notice of Trustee’s Sale that was
recorded setting the sale of the Property for August 31, 2023 (RJN Ex. 7) was
continued to January 9, 2023 (sic) (Complaint ¶15). Based thereon, []
the complaint does not plead facts to support material violations…. (Final
Ruling p. 6 of 6 of PDF.)  
 
In his FAC,
Plaintiff alleges that the Defendant’s alleged negligent and ineffective
handling of Plaintiff’s loan modification application was material because “in failing to assign a [Single
Point of Contact] SPOC, the entity has prevented Plaintiff’s chances for a
successful submission of the proper papers to complete a loan
modification package to save the Subject Property from foreclosure, and
the resultant loss of equity and a place to live for Plaintiff and his
dependents.” (¶35; see also ¶51 [“The failure to advise PLAINTIFF if his loan
modification request was received by DEFENDANTS is a material violation of the
statute. This is because it jeopardizes PLAINTIFF’s right to submit a timely
loan modification package while a pending foreclosure is in process, which
could result in the loss of equity in the Subject Property, and the loss of a
place to live for PLAINTIFF and his dependents; see also Opp. p. 6:12-13 [“It
is a material violation of the statute when Plaintiff was not able to even
obtain status of their review.”].) But Plaintiff’s contention that an SPOC would have allowed for the
submission of the proper papers is contradicted by both the FAC
and the opposition which state that ALL documents were sent to Defendant:
“PLAINTIFF alleges that on September 19, 2023, NON-PROFIT submitted the
requested documents on behalf of the Plaintiff” to Defendant (FAC ¶19,
emphasis added; Opp. p. 3:15-16 [“Instead, SELENE made the review process
burdensome even though Plaintiff complied on his end by submitting all
the required documentation for the loan modification review….”], emphasis
added.) As discussed in the previous ruling, the purpose of a SPOC is to
explore other options to avoid foreclosure, one of those processes is a
loan modification, and that application, Plaintiff submitted.[2]
(See FAC ¶16 [Plaintiff submitted a Complete Request for Mortgage Assistance to
Defendant on 8/10/23]; ¶34 [same]; ¶49 [same].) Accordingly, even if the Notice
of Default and Election to Sell Under Deed of Trust was recorded on 4/24/23 and
even if the Notice of Trustee’s Sale was recorded on 7/26/23, the sale was
continued from August 31, 2023 to January 9, 2023 (FAC ¶15), and from August
2023 to November 2023, because Plaintiff applied and was considered for
a loan modification. 
 
Thus, as the
alleged failure to issue a SPOC and/or notify Plaintiff of foreclosure
alternatives runs through each COA (see e.g., FAC ¶58 [Wrongful Foreclosure
COA]; ¶85 [UCL Claim]), then the FAC fails to plead sufficient facts. 
 
As for leave
to amend, it was previously granted and the FAC largely repeats similar
allegations as the original complaint. Should Plaintiff at the hearing provide
a compelling argument supported by factual allegations that the alleged
violations were material, the court will grant leave to amend. However, with
the current arguments and facts, leave to amend is denied. (A proposed order
sustaining the demurrer and dismissing the Defendants has been filed.) 
 
Conclusion
 
Based on the
foregoing, the demurrer is sustained; leave to amend is TBD.



