    SERVICE:      [X]  Proof of Service Timely Filed (CRC, rule 3.1300)                      OK [X]  Correct Address (CCP §§ 1013, 1013a)                                      OK  [X]  16/21 Court Days Lapsed (CCP §§ 12c, 1005(b))                       OK     OPPOSITION:          Filed as of January 10, 2024                           [   ] Late          [   ] None  REPLY:                     Filed as of January 11, 2024                           [   ] Late          [   ] None    BACKGROUND On May 30, 2023, Plaintiffs Matthew Lenehan (“Matthew”) and Marabella  Lenehan (“Marabella”) (collectively “Plaintiffs”) filed several causes of  action against Defendants Dustin Ruppert (“Dustin”) and Kenny Ruppert (“Kenny”)  (collectively “Defendants”) for 1) Failure to Provide a Habitable Dwelling; 2)  Breach of Covenant and Right to Quiet Enjoyment; 3) Private Nuisance; and 4)  Negligence.   On October 30, 2023, Defendants, specially appeared to file the  instant Motion to Quash Service of Summons. Plaintiffs filed opposition.  Specially Appearing Defendants reply.  MOVING PARTY  POSITION               Defendants pray  for an order from the Court quashing Plaintiff’s service of summons. Defendants  argue that the service was defective as Plaintiffs did not attach a copy of the  notice and acknowledgement when it rendered service by mail. Thus, because the  summons lacked inclusion of a copy of the notice and acknowledgement as provided  under CCP § 415.30 service should be considered ineffective.    OPPOSITION               In  opposition, Plaintiff argues that service was properly rendered on Defendants. Plaintiff’s  assert that his service processor attempted service five times on Defendants’  homes several times but received no answer, subsequently service was then made  by priority mail. Moreover, Plaintiffs argue that Defendants’ prior counsel requested  a copy of the Summons and Complaint which Plaintiff claims were emailed to him  that same day. Later, Defendant’s new counsel requested additional time to file  a response yet filed the motion to quash.    REPLY               Defendants  reply to the opposition, arguing that Plaintiffs’ opposition is untimely pursuant  to CCP § 1005(b). Defendants further emphasize that California Law requires  strict compliance with its service of process requirements for the Court to obtain  jurisdiction over the Defendants. Moreover, Plaintiff did not properly follow  the service requirements specified under CCP § 415.30 and 415.20(c) as  Defendants neither received nor signed a written acknowledgment of receipt of  summons.    ANALYSIS   I.          Legal  Standard  “‘Service of process, under  longstanding tradition in our system of justice, is fundamental to any procedural  imposition on a named defendant.’ [Citation.]” (AO Alfa-Bank v. Yakovlev  (2018) 21 Cal.App.5th 189, 202.) “To establish personal jurisdiction,  compliance with statutory procedures for service of process is essential.” (Kremerman  v. White (2021). 71 Cal.App.5th 358, 371.) Defendant’s knowledge of the  action does not dispense with statutory requirements for service of summons. (Kappel  v. Bartlett (1988) 200 Cal.App.3d 1457, 1466.)    “A defendant, on  or before the last day of his or her time to plead or within any further time  that the court may for good cause allow” may move “to quash service of summons  on the ground of lack of jurisdiction of the court over him or her” that  results from lack of proper service. (Code of Civ. Proc. § 418.10(a)(1). A  defendant has 30 days after the service of the summons to file a responsive  pleading. (Code Civ. Proc., § 412.20(a)(3).)    “When a defendant  challenges the court’s personal jurisdiction on the ground of improper service  of process ‘the burden is on the plaintiff to prove the existence of  jurisdiction by proving, inter alia, the facts requisite to an effective  service.’” (Summers v. McClanahan (2006) 140 Cal.App.4th 403, 413.)    “Evidence Code  section 647 provides that a registered process server’s declaration of service  establishes a presumption affecting the burden of producing evidence of the  facts stated in the declaration. [Citation.]” (American Express Centurion  Bank v. Zara (2011) 199 Cal.App.4th 383, 390; Evid. Code § 647.)   II.        Discussion                Defendant Kenny provides the court  with a declaration of his counsel which states that on July 14, 2023, Plaintiffs  attempted to serve Kenny a copy of the summons and Complaint via Fed-Ex  overnight delivery. (Rey S. Yang Decl. ¶ 3.; Exh. A) When counsel became aware  of Plaintiffs’ improper service, counsel contacted Plaintiffs’ Counsel by email  and by phone to inform him that proper service had not been effectuated (Id.  ¶ 5-6.) On October 19, 2023, Defendant’s counsel sent a meet and confer letter  to Plaintiffs’ counsel regarding the improper service and advised Plaintiffs’  counsel that Defendants would be filing the instant motions to quash unless they  had heard from Plaintiffs’ counsel. (Id. ¶ 7; Exh. C.) Seeing no  response, Defendants’ counsel filed the instant motions. (Id. ¶ 8.)                The Court notes that similar facts  are alleged as to Defendant Dustin. Counsel further declares that Plaintiffs served  Dustin by overnight mail without copies of the notice and acknowledgment  included in the service of summons (Rey Yang ¶ 3; Exh. B.)               In opposition, Plaintiffs state that  they requested “One Legal” to make a personal service on Defendants. (Khalil  Ahmd Decl. ¶ 2.) One Legal informed Plaintiff’s counsel that its process server  made several attempts to serve Defendants, however, Defendants did not open the  door for him to serve summons and complaint. (Id.; Exh. B.) Thereafter, Plaintiffs’  counsel directed his legal assistant to service the summons and complaint by  priority mail. (Id. ¶ 3; Alice Fong Decl. ¶ 2.)               Code of Civil Procedure § 415.10  provides that summons may be served by personal delivery of a copy of summons  and complaint to the person to be served. (Code Civ. Proc. Proc. § 415.10.) CCP  § 415.30 additionally provides that summons may be served by mail provided that  a copy of the summons and the complaint be mailed by first class mail or  airmail, postage prepaid to the person to be served “together with two copies  of the notice and acknowledgment provided for in subdivision (b) and a return  envelope, postage prepaid, addressed to the sender.” (Code Civ. Proc. Proc. §  415.30.)                The Court notes that Defendants rely  on Ziller Electronics Lab GmbH v. Super. Ct. and Schering  Corp. v. Superior Ct. to elaborate Plaintiffs’ burden under CCP § 412.20  and further that strict compliance with service statues to form the basis of  jurisdiction over the Defendants. However, the Court finds better authority in Summers  v. McClanahan which held that, “[w]hen a defendant challenges the court’s  personal jurisdiction on the ground of improper service of process ‘the burden  is on the plaintiff to prove the existence of jurisdiction by proving, inter  alia, the facts requisite to an effective service.’” (Summers v. McClanahan  (2006) 140 Cal.App.4th 403, 413.)   Here it’s clear from Defendants’ evidence that Plaintiff  did not provide Defendants with a copy of the notice and acknowledgment provided  for under CCP § 415.30(b). Plaintiffs evidence that service by mail was  necessary after multiple failed attempts to render personal service on  Defendants however, considering the missing copies of notice and acknowledgement  for both Defendants, the Court finds Plaintiff has failed to meet its burden to  prove existence of jurisdiction. Thus, since Plaintiffs’ Service of Summons did  not contain copies of the notice and acknowledgement as specified under CCP §  415.30, service is considered ineffective.   Accordingly, the Court GRANTS Defendants’ Motions to  Quash Service of Summons.        III.       Conclusion                           Defendants’ Motions to Quash Service of Summons are GRANTED.   Moving party is ordered to give  notice.  