  Case Number:  19STCV36319    Hearing Date:   September 25, 2024    Dept:  P Tentative Ruling
D.E. v. Regents of the University
of California, Case no. 19STCV36319
Hearing date September 25, 2024
Defendant Regents’ Motion for
Summary Adjudication
Plaintiff’s Motion for Summary
Adjudication
Plaintiff UCLA graduate student
D.E. sues defendant Regents for violations of the Unruh Civil Rights Act, Fair
Employment and Housing Act and California Government Code §11135. Plaintiff has
ADHD and migraines and alleges defendant failed to provide reasonable
accommodations despite being aware of her disabilities. 
Plaintiff’ prior motion for summary
adjudication on her claims under the Unruh Civil Rights and Cal. Gov. Code
§11135 was denied. There, plaintiff argued UCLA’s policy of allowing ‘incompletes’
to remain on a student transcript disparately impacts disabled students. The
Regents previously moved for judgment on the pleadings, which was denied in
part and rendered moot in other part. Plaintiff was granted leave to add a
disparate impact theory. 
Plaintiff moves for summary
adjudication again under the Unruh Civil Rights and Cal. Gov. Code §11135 claims.
The Regents move for summary adjudication on the disparate impact claim.
Evidentiary Objections
Defendant
filed 19 evidentiary objections. Objection 1 SUSTAINED (irrelevant, hearsay); objections
2-3 OVERRULED; objections 4-5 SUSTAINED (hearsay); objections 6-13 OVERRULED; objections
14-15 SUSTAINED (hearsay); objections 16-17 OVERRULED; objection 18 SUSTAINED
(irrelevant); objection 19 SUSTAINED (hearsay, lack of foundation.)
Defendant’s Motions for Judicial
Notice
·        
Emails
between D.E. and UCLA related to issues of accommodations attached as Exhibit 5
of plaintiff's 2023 MSA
·        
The
declaration of Jackway-Kelly in support of defendant’s opposition to
plaintiff’s 2023 MSA
·        
The
declaration of Dr. Saad in support of defendant's 2024 MSA
·        
Plaintiff’s
second amended verified complaint
·        
The
standards and procedures for graduate study at UCLA (exh. 24 of plaintiff's
July 2024 declaration)
Judicial
notice is proper under Evid. Code §452(d) because the requested notice is for
records contained in court records. GRANTED.
Plaintiff’s Motion for Summary
Adjudication
Plaintiff
argues UCLA’s policy of allowing “Incomplete” grades to remain on a student’s
transcript after a course is completed violates the ADA, so she is entitled to
judgment on the Unruh Civil Rights Act and Cal. Gov. Code §11135 claims. 
A
plaintiff fulfills the initial burden on summary adjudication or judgment by
proving each element of the cause of action. Cal. Code Civ. Proc. §437c(p)(1).
The burden then shifts to defendant to show a genuine issue of fact as to one
or more elements or an affirmative defense. Celotex Corp. v. Catrett
(1986) 477 U.S 317, 323. 
A
violation of the ADA per se satisfies the elements of the Unruh Act and
Gov. Code sec. 11135 claims. A plaintiff establishes discrimination under the
ADA by proving they are “a qualified individual with a disability” who was
“either excluded from participation in or denied the benefits of a public
entity’s services, programs, or activities or was otherwise discriminated
against by the public entity . . . by reason of [their] disability.” Payan
v. Los Angeles Community College Dist. (2021) 11 F.4th 729, 737-89. 
Plaintiff
argues UCLA’s “incomplete” policy had a disparate impact on disabled students.
Under UCLA’s previous “incomplete” policy, a student who was unable to timely
complete a course received an “incomplete” on their transcript. If the
coursework was later completed, the “incomplete” was replaced with a final
letter grade.  
Under
a disparate impact theory, a facially neutral educational practice may be
deemed illegally discriminatory without evidence of subjective intent to
discriminate, which is required in a disparate treatment case. Wards Cove
Packing Co. v. Antonio (1989) 490 U.S. 642, 645–46. To establish a prima
facie case of disparate impact, plaintiff must: (1) identify one or more
specific education practices at issue, (2) show a disparate impact on a
protected class, and (3) establish a causal relationship between the practice
and the disparate impact. Watson v. Fort Worth Bank & Trust (1988)
487 U.S. 977, 994–95.
Plaintiff
offers the statistical analysis of Dr. Clifford Hurvich; defendant offers the statistical
analysis of Ali Saad, Ph.D. Each contains competing interpretations of the
statistics. Dr. Hurvich asserts the evidence shows a “strong statistical
significance” that the policy had a disparate impact. Decl. Hurvich, para. 9.
Dr. Saad asserts that plaintiff experts’s analysis made improper assumptions
that led to incorrect outcomes. Dr. Saad notes “Plaintiff analyzed the data
implicitly assuming that a student’s Incomplete grade was always causally
related to the student’s disability.” Decl. Saad, para. 4. Dr. Saad asserts the
data did not show a statistically significant difference between graduate
students with and without a disability. Decl. Saad, para. 9. 
Defendant
argues plaintiff’s MSA is procedurally deficient, as plaintiff’s separate statement
does not specifically and separately identify any issue or causes of action for
adjudication, in violation of Cal. Rules of Court rule 3.3150(b) & (f). Defendant
argues the separate statement also violates Code Civ. Proc. §437c(b)(1)’s
“plain and concise” requirement by being argumentative and compound. The court
agrees. Defendant further asserts plaintiff failed to respond to defendant’s
requests for discovery, which has prejudiced defendant. To the extent certain
documents were requested and not produced, defendant may move in limine to exclude
such documents from introduction at trial. 
Defendant
alleges that, despite agreeing to produce responses to defendant’s document
demands, plaintiff failed to produce any responsive documents. Decl. Isvoranu
exs. B-D. Defendant notes these issues allow the court to deny the motion using
its discretion; however, the court chooses to rule on the merits. 
Plaintiff
meets the first element of a disparate impact claim by identifying the “incompletes”
policy. To satisfy the second element, plaintiff must prove disabled graduate
students, as a group, were disproportionally harmed by the policy because of
their disability, rather than for some other reason. Katz v. Regents of the
University of California (9th Cir. 2000) 229 F.3d 831, 835. Plaintiff
cannot merely allege that the policy impacted her, and as such impacted the
group as a whole; she must provide factual support that the entire protected
class was impacted. 
Plaintiff
provides absolutely no evidence on two critical points. First, there is no
evidence that a prospective employer would identify someone who had an
incomplete with a follow-up letter grade as a disabled student or as student
with an accommodation. Second, plaintiff provides no evidence, only
speculation, that a hypothetical employer would treat an incomplete with a
follow-up letter grade as a negative or draw conclusions – let alone what those
conclusions a might be --- from the simple fact that a student at one point had
an incomplete in specific class. Without evidence of both these foundational
issues, there can be no viable claim.
Plaintiff
proffer facts outlining the policy’s alleged impacts on her individually. This
is insufficient to establish that, as a group, disabled graduate students
suffered a disparate impact under the policy. Plaintiff failed to provide
evidence that she or other disabled students suffered harm as a result of the
policy. Instead, plaintiff asserts people with disabilities are more likely to
request additional time to accommodate their disabilities, so their transcripts
are disproportionately marked with permanent "incomplete"
designations. Plaint. UMF 25. There is no foundation for this assertion.
Plaintiff
argues having a record of incomplete even after attaining a grade is viewed
negatively. Plaint. UMF 40. Plaintiff argues this supposed negative view of
incomplete grades could compel disabled graduate students to reveal their
accommodations and disabilities to overcome the stigma of incomplete grades.
Plaintiff offers no evidence to support this contention. Mere speculation is
not enough.
Plaintiff
offers unsubstantiated arguments, which do not factually demonstrate a
disparate impact on a protected class. The court cannot accept as true the
assertion that having an “incomplete” prior to a final grade flags disabled
students or is seen as a negative by prospective employers. Plaintiff argues incomplete
grading notations flag accommodated students. Plaint. UMF 19, 31. Again,
plaintiff fails to substantiate this argument with facts. Plaintiff fails to
establish the necessary second element of a disparate impact claim. 
Plaintiff
offers a declaration from Dr. Clifford Hurvich, whose statistical analysis attempts
to demonstrate a causal relationship between the alleged disparate impact on
disabled graduate students and the policy. Dr. Hurvich states in winter quarter
2018, 19.3% of all graduate students with registered disabilities received one
or more incompletes, as opposed to the 2.2% of non-registered graduate students
who received incompletes. Decl. Hurvich, para. 11. In spring 2018, 20.3% of registered
graduate students received one or more incompletes, as opposed to the 1.6% of
non-registered graduate students who received one or more incompletes. Decl.
Hurvich, para. 12. 
Plaintiff’s
statistical analysis is flawed. There is no evidence to support the notion that
the incompletes were received as a result of or due to a student’s disability.
As defendant argues, the reason a student receives an incomplete is not
recorded, so it is entirely speculative to assume that an incomplete was due to
a disability rather due to any other factor. Def. SAMF 19. Further, Dr.
Hurvich’s analysis uses the number of disabled graduate students who requested
accommodations as the baseline, not the total number of disabled graduate
students. Def. SAMF 32. DENIED.
Defendant Regents’ Motion for
Summary Adjudication
Defendant
Regents argue for summary adjudication as to the violation of the Unruh Civil
Rights Act and Cal. Gov. Code §11135 claims. Defendant argues the disparate
impact claim fails to state facts sufficient to show the incomplete-grade policy
had a significantly adverse impact on disabled graduate students. Defendant
also argues the disparate impact claim fails to state facts sufficient to show UCLA’s
policy resulted in disabled students receiving incomplete grades simply due to
their disability.
A
defendant meets their burden on summary adjudication by showing one or more
elements of the cause of action cannot be established or there is a complete
defense to the cause of action. Cal. Code Civ. Proc. §437(c). Once a defendant
meets their burden, the burden shifts to plaintiff to show a triable issue of
material fact. Id. 
To
establish a prima facie case of disparate impact, a plaintiff must: (1)
identify one or more specific education practices at issue, (2) show a
disparate impact on a protected class, and (3) establish a causal relationship
between the practice and the disparate impact. Watson v. Fort Worth Bank
& Trust (1988) 487 U.S. 977, 994–95. Defendant concedes plaintiff
identified a specific educational practice at issue, so element one is established.

Defendant
argues plaintiff cannot establish the second element because there is no
evidence an “incomplete” is viewed negatively, so no evidence that an
incomplete is harmful. Defendant notes “UCLA’s Incomplete Grade Policy
expressly states that the grade is assigned as a placeholder ‘when a student’s
work is of passing quality but is incomplete for a good cause.’” Def. SSUMF 1.
Defendant further notes “An Incomplete also does not negatively affect a
student’s GPA; only the student’s final grade affects their GPA.” Def. SSUMF 7.
Plaintiff provides no admissible evidence to refute these assertions.
The
declaration and analysis of Dr. Saad demonstrates plaintiff has not and cannot
establish the second and third elements of a disparate impact claim. Dr. Saad’s
analysis is in conflict with that of plaintiff’s expert Dr. Huvich. Both contain
a statistical analysis of the policy and its impact on disabled graduate
students. Each party’s expert is credentialed, and each comes to divergent conclusions
regarding both the harm caused to disabled graduate students and the causal
relationship with the policy at issue. 
Defendant
argues a disparate impact claim cannot be maintained when it is based on
“incorrect and unproved assumptions and inferences.” Lopez v. Pac. Maritime
Assoc. (C.D. Cal. April 3, 2009) 2009 WL 10680881, aff’d. (9th Cir.
2011) 657 F.3d 762. Defendant is correct; however, plaintiff provided a statistical
analysis such that a material issue exists as to which party is correct in
their interpretation of the data. A material question of fact exists.
Defendant’s motion is DENIED.