 Case Number:  24STCV18189    Hearing Date:   November 22, 2024    Dept:  54 


Superior Court of
  California
County of Los
  Angeles




 
2464 Fletcher Drive LLC,


 
 
 
Plaintiff,


 
Case No.:
 


 
24STCV18189




 
vs.


 


 
Tentative Ruling
 




 
Silver Lake Caregivers Group, et al.,


 
 
 
Defendants.


 


 




 


 


 


 



 
Hearing Date: November 22, 2024
Department 54, Judge Maurice Leiter
Motion to Strike Answer
Moving Party: Plaintiff 2464 Fletcher Drive LLC
Responding Party: Defendants Silver Lake Caregivers
Group and Tolabus Stein
 
T/R:     PLAINTIFF’S MOTION TO STRIKE IS DENIED.
 
PLAINTIFF TO NOTICE.
 
If the parties wish to submit on the
tentative, please email the courtroom at SMCdept54@lacourt.org with
notice to opposing counsel (or self-represented party) before 8:00 am on the
day of the hearing.
The Court considers the moving papers and
reply.
 
BACKGROUND
 
On July 25, 2024, Plaintiff 2464
Fletcher Drive LLC filed a complaint for unlawful detainer against Defendants
Silver Lake Caregivers Group and Tolabus Stein. Plaintiff alleges Defendants
failed to pay rent and operated an unlicensed cannabis dispensary on the
premises.
 
REQUEST FOR
JUDICIAL NOTICE 
 
Plaintiff’s request for judicial notice
is GRANTED.
 
 
 
 
ANALYSIS
 
“Any party, within the time allowed to
response to a pleading, may serve and file a notice of motion to strike the
whole or any part" of that pleading. (CCP § 435(b)(1).) “The Court may,
upon a motion made pursuant to Section 435, or at any time in its discretion,
and upon terms it deems proper: (a) Strike out any irrelevant, false or
improper matter asserted in any pleading; (b) Strike out all or any part
of any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of this state, a
court rule, or an order of the Court." (CCP § 436.)
 
Plaintiff moves to strike Defendant
Silver Lake Caregivers Group’s answer on the ground that it is a suspended
corporation. (See Timberline, Inc. v. Jaisinghani (1997) 54 Cal.App.4th
1361 [stating a suspended corporation is disqualified from exercising any
right, power, or privilege, including prosecuting or defending an action, or
appealing a judgment.]) In opposition to Plaintiff’s motion for summary
judgment, Defendant presented evidence showing it was in good standing with the
California Secretary of State. The Court continued the motion to strike to
allow Plaintiff to file a reply either confirming or refuting this status. In
reply, Plaintiff has presented evidence showing several tax liens against
Defendant, but this evidence does not show that Defendant remains a suspended
corporation. 
 
Plaintiff’s motion to strike is DENIED.


 