


[1] The Court declines to consider the reply declarations
of Won M. Park or Heather Marie Cook.  In
general, a reply cannot contain new evidence because it violates the moving
party’s right to due process.  (See,
e.g., San Diego Watercrafts, Inc. v. Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. (2002) 102
Cal.App.4th 308, 315 [“Where a remedy as
drastic as summary judgment is involved, due process requires a party be fully
advised of the issues to be addressed and be given adequate notice of what
facts it must rebut in order to prevail”]; see also Wall Street Network Ltd.
v. New York Times Co. (2008) 164 Cal.App.4th 1171.)


[2] Plaintiff has not requested any additional
jurisdictional discovery in opposition to Cook’s motion to quash.

TENTATIVE
RULING - NO. 2
 



DEPARTMENT


207




HEARING DATE


December
  15, 2023




CASE NUMBER


23SMCV03902




MOTION


Motion
  to Quash Service of Summons




MOVING PARTY


Defendant
  Mauser Harmony with Nature Foundation, Inc.




OPPOSING PARTY


Plaintiff
  Jessica Dutkovic



 
MOTION
 
            This
case arises from an injury Plaintiff Jessica Dutkovic (“Plaintiff”) allegedly
suffered while descending an outdoor staircase at a property in Costa
Rica.  
 
            Specially
appearing Defendant Mauser Harmony with Nature Foundation, Inc. (“Defendant”) moves
to quash service of the summons and complaint on the basis of lack of personal
jurisdiction.  Plaintiff opposes the
motion and Defendant replies.[1]
 
REQUEST FOR JUDICIAL NOTICE
 
            In
opposition to Defendant’s Motion, Plaintiff references exhibits to a Request
for Judicial Notice filed in connection with Plaintiff’s opposition to
Defendant’s concurrently-filed motion to stay or dismiss for inconvenient
forum.  As such, the Court addresses the
Request for Judicial Notice here as well.
 
            Plaintiff
requests the Court to take judicial notice of the following documents:
 
1.     
Exhibit
1 – the California Secretary of State website’s public entry for Defendant
 
2.     
Exhibit
2 – the Statement of Information Defendant prepared and publicly filed with the
California Secretary of State
 
3.     
Exhibit
3 – the Michigan Department of Licensing and Regulatory Affairs public entry
for Defendant
 
4.     
Exhibit
4 – the Statement and Designation by Foreign Corporation Defendant prepared and
publicly filed with the Michigan Department of Licensing and Regulatory Affairs
 
5.     
Exhibit
5 – Defendant’s 2019 form 990-PF Return of Private Foundation prepared and
publicly filed with the Internal Revenue Service
 
6.     
Exhibit
6 – a copy of Defendant Heather Cook’s LinkedIn page as of October 30, 2023
 
7.     
Exhibit
7 – a copy of Defendant Heather Cook’s online resume/CV
 
Official notices, statements, and certificates made by the Secretary
of State or Franchise Tax Board are properly the subject of judicial notice as
documents reflecting official acts of the executive department of the State of
California, pursuant to Evidence Code, section 452, subdivision (c).  (Friends of Shingle Springs Interchange,
Inc. v. County of El Dorado (2011) 200 Cal.App.4th 1470, 1483–1484.)        Similarly, official notices, statements,
and certificates made by the IRS are documents reflecting official acts of the executive
department of the United States.  However,
“materials prepared by private parties and merely on file with the state [or
federal] agencies” may not be properly judicially noticed as an official act of
a legislative, executive, or judicial department of the United States or any
state of the United States.  (People
v. Thacker (1985) 175 Cal.App.3d 594, 598.)  Therefore, the Court grants Plaintiff’s
request as to Exhibits 1 and 3.  However,
because Exhibits 2, 4, and 5 were all prepared and filed by a private party,
they are not “official statements” made by the California Secretary of State,
Michigan Department of Licensing and Regulatory Affairs, or the federal Internal
Revenue Service.  Therefore, the Court
denies Plaintiff’s request for judicial notice as to Exhibits 2, 4, and 5.
 
The Court similarly denies Plaintiff’s request for judicial notice of
Exhibits 6 and 7.  It cannot be said that
these website printouts are either “of such common knowledge” or “capable of
immediate determination by resort to sources of reasonably indisputably
accuracy” such that they cannot be reasonably subject to dispute.
 
LEGAL
STANDARDS
 
“A defendant, on or before the last day of his or her time to plead or
within any further time that the court may for good cause allow, may serve and
file a notice of motion for one or more of the following purposes:  (1) To quash service of summons on the ground
of lack of jurisdiction of the court over him or her.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 418.10, subd.
(a)(1).)  
 
“[W]hen jurisdiction is challenged by a nonresident defendant, the
burden of proof is upon the plaintiff to demonstrate that ‘minimum contacts’
exist between the defendant and the forum state to justify imposition of
personal jurisdiction.” (Mihlon v. Superior Court (1985) 169 Cal.App.3d
703, 710.) It is thus upon the plaintiff to demonstrate by a preponderance of
the evidence that all jurisdictional criteria are met. (Ziller Electronics
Lab GmbH v. Superior Court (1988) 206 Cal.App.3d 1222, 1232.)   
 
Moreover, “on a challenge to personal jurisdiction by a motion to
quash, the plaintiff has the burden of proving, by a preponderance of the
evidence, the factual bases justifying the exercise of jurisdiction.”  (ViaView, Inc. v. Retzlaff (2016) 1
Cal.App.5th 198, 209–210 (hereafter ViaView).)  “The plaintiff must come forward with
affidavits and other competent evidence to carry this burden and cannot simply
rely on allegations in an unverified complaint.”  (Id. at p. 210.)  If plaintiff meets this burden, “it becomes
the defendant’s burden to demonstrate that the existence of jurisdiction would
be unreasonable.” (Buchanan v. Soto (2015) 241 Cal.App.4th 1353, 1362.)
 
California’s long-arm statute grants its courts the power to assert
personal jurisdiction over out-of-state parties to the maximum extent that the
state and federal constitutions allow. (Code Civ. Proc., § 410.10.) Under the
due process clause of the Fourteenth Amendment to the United States
Constitution, state courts may exercise personal jurisdiction over nonresidents
who have “minimum contacts” with the forum state. (International Shoe Co. v.
Washington (1945) 326 U.S. 310, 316.) Minimum contacts exist when the
relationship between the nonresident and the forum state is such that the
exercise of jurisdiction does not offend “traditional notions of fair play and
substantial justice.” (Id. at p. 316.) The primary focus of the personal
jurisdiction inquiry is the relationship of the defendant to the forum state. (Bristol-Myers
Squibb Co. v. Superior Court of California, San Francisco County (2017)
582 U.S. 255 (hereafter Bristol-Myers).) 
 
“Minimum contacts exist where the defendant’s conduct in the forum
state is such that he should reasonably anticipate being subject to suit there,
and it is reasonable and fair to force him to do so.” (F. Hoffman-La Roche,
Ltd. v. Superior Court (2005) 130 Cal.App.4th 782, 795, citing World–Wide
Volkswagen Corp. v. Woodson (1980) 444 U.S. 286, 297; Kulko v.
California Superior Court (1978) 436 U.S. 84, 92; Pavlovich v. Superior
Court (2002) 29 Cal.4th 262, 269.) 
 
Personal jurisdiction may be either general or specific. General (also
called all-purpose) jurisdiction means that a defendant's contacts with a state
are sufficiently extensive that the “defendant is ‘essentially at home,’ ” and
the court may exercise jurisdiction over the defendant regardless of whether
the claims relate to the forum state.  (Ford
Motor Company v. Montana Eighth Judicial District Court (2021) 141
S.Ct. 1017, 1024; Goodyear Dunlop Tires Operations, S. A. v. Brown
(2011) 564 U.S. 915, 919.) 
 
Specific personal jurisdiction hinges on the “ ‘relationship among the
defendant, the forum, and the litigation.’ ” (Daimler AG v. Bauman (2014)
571 U.S.117, 133; accord Walden v. Fiore (2014) 571 U.S. 277, 284.)  Such jurisdiction requires “ ‘an affiliation
between the forum and the underlying controversy, principally, [an] activity or
an occurrence that takes place in the forum State and is therefore subject to
the State’s regulation.’ ” (Bristol-Myers, supra, 582 U.S. at p. 262.)
Consistent with the constraints of due process, “the defendant’s suit-related
conduct must create a substantial connection with the forum State.” (Walden
v. Fiore, supra, 571 U.S. at p. 284.) 
 
Further, “a nonresident defendant may be subject to the court's
specific jurisdiction if three requirements are met: (1) the defendant has
purposefully availed itself of forum benefits with respect to the matter in
controversy; (2) the controversy is related to or arises out of the defendant's
contacts with the forum; and (3) the exercise of jurisdiction would be
reasonable and comports with fair play and substantial justice.”  (ViaView, supra, 1 Cal.App.5th at p.
216.)
 
ANALYSIS
 
Defendant challenges personal jurisdiction on the basis that it is a
Michigan company with principal place of business in Costa Rica, and the
incident occurred in Costa Rica.  (Cook
Decl. ¶¶ 3, 8, 11.)  Although Defendant
registered as a foreign business in California in 2013, and has three employees
located in California (the brother and parents of Defendant’s director),
Defendant does not maintain any offices in California, and has not conducted
any business in California.  (Cook Decl.
¶¶ 4-6.)  The registered address for
Defendant in California is the home of Defendant’s director’s brother, who is
also Defendant’s California agent for service of process.  (Ibid.)  Defendant’s “only business” is operating an
artist residency program in Costa Rica. 
(Cook Decl. ¶ 8.)  Costa Rica is
also where the alleged incident occurred. 
(Cook Decl. ¶¶ 8, 11.)
 
In Opposition, the only evidence Plaintiff references are exhibits
attached to a Request for Judicial Notice made in opposition to Defendant’s
concurrent motion to stay or dismiss for inconvenient forum.  As discussed above, the Court takes judicial
notice of the California Secretary of State and the Michigan Department of
Licensing and Regulatory Affairs public corporate information page for
Defendant.  These pages indicate that
Defendant maintains a mailing address in Van Nuys, California, and the address
for each of Defendant’s principals is in Van Nuys, California.  (RJN Exhs. 2, 4.)[2]  
 
The Court finds this evidence insufficient to rebut the Cook
declaration.  Cook states that her
parents and brother reside in California, but Defendant’s principal place of
business is in Costa Rica, where Cook resides. 
Further Cook avers that Defendant neither maintains offices nor conducts
any business in California.  Therefore,
the Court does not find Defendant’s contacts with California to be so
continuous and systematic for Defendant to be “essentially at home” in
California to establish general jurisdiction.
 
With respect to specific jurisdiction, “A nonresident defendant may be
subject to the court's specific jurisdiction if three requirements are met: (1)
the defendant has purposefully availed itself of forum benefits with respect to
the matter in controversy; (2) the controversy is related to or arises out of
the defendant's contacts with the forum; and (3) the exercise of jurisdiction
would be reasonable and comports with fair play and substantial justice.”  (ViaView, supra, 1 Cal.App.5th at p. 216).)

 
The Court does not find any of these three prongs satisfied.  Defendant does not do business in California
or target its services to California residents. 
Thus, Defendant has not purposefully availed itself of California
benefits with respect to the matter in controversy.  
 
To the extent Defendant has availed itself of California benefits by
virtue of registering to do business as a foreign entity, the controversy at
issue does not arise from Defendant’s registration to do business in California
or from Defendant’s business affairs, if any, in California.  In short, Plaintiff has not demonstrated that
the incident arose from Defendant’s California registration or any business
Defendant conducted in or directed toward California.
 
Thus, exercising jurisdiction over Defendant, a Michigan corporation
with its principal place of business in Costa Rica, over an incident that
occurred in Costa Rica, does not comport with fair play and substantial
justice, notwithstanding that some of Defendant’s principals apparently reside
in California.
 
CONCLUSION AND ORDER
 
            For the reasons stated, the Court
grants Specially Appearing Defendant’s Motion to Quash.  
 
            The
Clerk of the Court shall provide notice of the Court’s ruling.     
 
 
DATED:  December 15, 2023                        ___________________________
                                                                        Michael
E. Whitaker
                                                                        Judge
of the Superior Court


