


[1] The Court declines to consider the reply declarations
of Won M. Park or Heather Marie Cook.  In
general, a reply cannot contain new evidence because it violates the moving
party’s right to due process.  (See,
e.g., San Diego Watercrafts, Inc. v. Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. (2002) 102
Cal.App.4th 308, 315 [“Where a remedy as
drastic as summary judgment is involved, due process requires a party be fully
advised of the issues to be addressed and be given adequate notice of what
facts it must rebut in order to prevail”]; see also Wall Street Network Ltd.
v. New York Times Co. (2008) 164 Cal.App.4th 1171.)


[2]
Plaintiff has not requested any additional jurisdictional discovery in
opposition to Defendant’s motion to quash.TENTATIVE
RULING - NO. 3 


DEPARTMENT


207




HEARING DATE


December
  15, 2023




CASE NUMBER


23SMCV03902




MOTION


Motion
  to Stay or Dismiss Due to Inconvenient Forum 




MOVING PARTIES


Defendants
  Mauser Harmony with Nature Foundation, Inc. and Heather M. Cook




OPPOSING PARTY


Plaintiff
  Jessica Dutkovic


 MOTION            This case arises from an
injury Plaintiff Jessica Dutkovic (“Plaintiff”) allegedly suffered while
descending an outdoor staircase at a property in Costa Rica.   Defendants Mauser Harmony with
Nature Foundation (“Mauser Harmony”) and Heather M. Cook (“Cook”)
(collectively, “Defendants”) move to stay or dismiss the instant action due to
inconvenient forum.  Plaintiff opposes
the motion and Defendants reply.[1] REQUEST FOR JUDICIAL NOTICE             Plaintiff
requests the Court to take judicial notice of the following documents: 1.     
Exhibit
1 – the California Secretary of State website’s public entry for Mauser Harmony 2.     
Exhibit
2 – the Statement of Information Defendant prepared and publicly filed with the
California Secretary of State 3.     
Exhibit
3 – the Michigan Department of Licensing and Regulatory Affairs public entry
for Mauser Harmony 4.     
Exhibit
4 – the Statement and Designation by Foreign Corporation Mauser Harmony
prepared and publicly filed with the Michigan Department of Licensing and
Regulatory Affairs 5.     
Exhibit
5 – Mauser Harmony’s 2019 form 990-PF Return of Private Foundation prepared and
publicly filed with the Internal Revenue Service 6.     
Exhibit
6 – a copy of Defendant Heather Cook’s LinkedIn page as of October 30, 2023 7.     
Exhibit
7 – a copy of Defendant Heather Cook’s online resume/CV Official notices, statements, and certificates made by the Secretary
of State or Franchise Tax Board are properly the subject of judicial notice as
documents reflecting official acts of the executive department of the State of
California, pursuant to Evidence Code, section 452, subdivision (c).  (Friends of Shingle Springs Interchange,
Inc. v. County of El Dorado (2011) 200 Cal.App.4th 1470, 1483–1484.)        Similarly, official notices, statements,
and certificates made by the IRS are documents reflecting official acts of the
executive department of the United States. 
However, “materials prepared by private parties and merely on file with
the state [or federal] agencies” may not be properly judicially noticed as an
official act of a legislative, executive, or judicial department of the United
States or any state of the United States. 
(People v. Thacker (1985) 175 Cal.App.3d 594, 598.)  Therefore, the Court grants Plaintiff’s
request as to Exhibits 1 and 3.  However,
because Exhibits 2, 4, and 5 were all prepared and filed by a private party,
they are not “official statements” made by the California Secretary of State,
Michigan Department of Licensing and Regulatory Affairs, or the federal
Internal Revenue Service.  Therefore, the
Court denies Plaintiff’s request for judicial notice as to Exhibits 2, 4, and
5. The Court similarly denies Plaintiff’s request for judicial notice of
Exhibits 6 and 7.  It cannot be said that
these website printouts are either “of such common knowledge” or “capable of
immediate determination by resort to sources of reasonably indisputably
accuracy” such that they cannot be reasonably subject to dispute. ANALYSIS
 “A defendant, on or before the last day of his or her time to
plead or within any further time that the court may for good cause allow, may
serve and file a notice of motion for one or more of the following purposes:  . . .  (2)
To stay or dismiss the action on the ground of inconvenient forum.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 418.10, subd.
(a)(2).)  And “[w]hen a court upon motion
of a party or its own motion finds that in the interest of substantial justice
an action should be heard in a forum outside this state, the court shall stay
or dismiss the action in whole or in part on any conditions that may be just.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 410.30. subd. (a).)   “Forum non conveniens is an equitable doctrine invoking the
discretionary power of a court to decline to exercise the jurisdiction it has
over a transitory cause of action when it believes that the action may be more
appropriately and justly tried elsewhere. 
. . .  We describe[] the basis of
the doctrine as follows:  There are
manifest reasons for preferring residents in access to often overcrowded
Courts, both in convenience and in the fact that broadly speaking it is they
who pay for maintaining the Courts concerned. The injustices and the burdens on
local courts and taxpayers, as well as on those leaving their work and business
to serve as jurors, which can follow from an unchecked and unregulated
importation of transitory causes of action for trial in this state require that
our courts, acting upon the equitable principles, exercise their discretionary
power to decline to proceed in those causes of action which they conclude, on
satisfactory evidence, may be more appropriately and justly tried elsewhere.”  (Stangvik v. Shiley Inc. (1991) 54
Cal.3d 744, 751 [cleaned up] (hereafter Stangvik).)   “On a motion for forum non conveniens defendant, as the
moving party, bears the burden of proof. The granting or denial of such a motion
is within the trial court's discretion, and substantial deference is accorded
its determination in this regard.”  (Stangvik,
supra, 54 Cal.3d at p. 751.)[2] “In determining whether to grant a motion based on forum non
conveniens, a court must first determine whether the alternate forum is a
“suitable” place for trial.  If it is,
the next step is to consider the private interests of the litigants and the
interests of the public in retaining the action for trial in California. The private
interest factors are those that make trial and the enforceability of the
ensuing judgment expeditious and relatively inexpensive, such as the ease of
access to sources of proof, the cost of obtaining attendance of witnesses, and
the availability of compulsory process for attendance of unwilling witnesses.
The public interest factors include avoidance of overburdening local
courts with congested calendars, protecting the interests of potential jurors
so that they are not called upon to decide cases in which the local community
has little concern, and weighing the competing interests of California and the
alternate jurisdiction in the litigation.” 
(Stangvik, supra, 54 Cal.3d at p. 751, emphasis added.)   1.     
Suitable Alternative Forum As to the first issue in considering whether a forum is
convenient or not, the “[s]uitability of an alternative forum is a threshold
determination, not part of the discretionary analysis.  But a forum is suitable if the defendant is
amenable to process there, there is no procedural bar to the ability of courts
of the foreign jurisdiction to reach the issues raised on their merits (or, if
there is, the advantage of the bar—typically, the statute of limitations—is
waived by defendants), and adjudication in the alternative forum is by an
independent judiciary applying what American courts regard, generally, as due
process of law.”  (Boaz v. Boyle &
Co. (1995) 40 Cal.App.4th 700, 711 [cleaned up] (hereafter Boaz).)   Here, Defendants have provided the declaration of Costa Rica
attorney Nicole Preinfalk, indicating the following: 4. Costa Rican courts are available to non-Costa
Rican citizens to file personal injury suits for incidents that occur in Costa
Rica. In that regard, foreign citizens such as Plaintiff have the same rights
to sue in Costa Rica as local citizens for injuries that occur in Costa Rica.
See Costa Rica Civil Code, Article 1045. 22  5. I understand from the complaint that the
incident occurred on or about April 15, 2022. Under Costa Rican law, Plaintiffs
claims against the Foundation and Ms. Cook are not barred by the statute of
limitations. See Costa Rica Civil Code, Articles 868 - 870.  6. I also understand that the Foundation, through
a subsidiary Limited Liability Company, owns the EcoHouse which is located in
Costa Rica at which it operates an artist residency program and that Ms. Cook
is a temporary resident of and works in Costa Rica. Since the Foundation
conducts business and owns property in Costa Rica and Ms. Cook is a resident of
Costa Rica, Costa Rican courts have jurisdiction over them and if found liable
to Plaintiff, an enforceable judgment can be entered against the Foundation
and/or Ms. Cook. (Preinfalk
Decl. ¶¶ 4-6.)  Thus, Costa Rica is a
suitable alternative forum. 2.     
Private Interests              “The private interests—those
involving the litigants—include: the relative ease of access to sources of
proof; availability of process to summon the unwilling, and the cost of
obtaining attendance of the willing; the possibility of a view if that is a factor;
enforceability of a judgment if one is obtained; and all other practical
problems that make trial of a case easy, expeditious and inexpensive.  (Boaz, supra, 40
Cal.App.4th at p. 707 [cleaned up].)               Here, Defendants contend Costa Rica
is a superior forum because Cook is a resident of Costa Rica, Mauser Harmony’s
principal place of business is in Costa Rica, and Plaintiff’s alleged injury
occurred in Costa Rica.  (Cook Decl. ¶¶
8-9, 12-15.)  Therefore, the evidence
concerning inspecting the premises at issue and interviewing witnesses and the Costa
Rican owners of the subject property, etc., are all located in Costa Rica.             Plaintiff counters that Plaintiff is
a resident of Southern California, and “has received extensive treatment for
the serious injuries she sustained from medical providers in the Southern
California area.”  (Gunther Decl. ¶ 9.)  Plaintiff also points out that the other
corporate officers and directors of Mauser Harmony reside in California.  (Opp. at pp. 7-8.)             As discussed in the concurrent
orders regarding Defendants’ motions to quash service of the summons,
California lacks personal jurisdiction over both of the named Defendants with
respect to this action.  Thus, although some
of the evidence and witnesses are located in California, California is not a
suitable forum as to the only two currently named Defendants.         3.      Public
Interests             “Public interest factors include
court congestion; the burden of jury service imposed on members of a community
having no relation to the litigation; holding trial in the view of persons
concerned, rather than at a remote location; and the problems of the forum
court untangling law of another jurisdiction.” 
(Boaz, supra, 40 Cal.App.4th at p. 707 [cleaned up].)               As to these issues, Costa Rica has
more of an interest in adjudicating this case than California does, as the
incident concerns the condition of real property located in Costa Rica.  Thus, Costa Rican law regarding negligence
and premises liability apply to the instant case.  Moreover, Defendants do not specifically
market to or otherwise target California residents.  Thus, Costa Rica –not California– is the
forum with primary and legitimate concern over the resolution of this
litigation.               Further, it is axiomatic that
California trial courts are undoubtedly congested especially in the County of
Los Angeles. This Court also recognizes that jury service remains a problem
even as California and the County of Los Angeles recovers from the Covid-19
pandemic.   4.      Jurisdictional
Discovery In opposition, Plaintiff requests, “as an alternative argument” that
“the Court defer the ruling on Defendants’ motion and allow the parties to
conduct additional discovery on the pertinent issues to accurately ascertain
the extent of Defendants’ contacts with CA. 
The Court denies this request.  The
Court notes that Plaintiff did not request jurisdictional discovery in
connection with either of the Defendants’ Motions to Quash Service of the
Summons for lack of Personal Jurisdiction, and the Court has determined that it
lacks personal jurisdiction over both Defendants.  Plaintiff has also not met her burden to demonstrate
what jurisdictional discovery it intends to conduct or facts it expects to uncover. CONCLUSION
AND ORDER In considering the suitability of the alternative forum, the private
and public interests herein, and balancing all of the relevant factors in light
of the evidence presented by the parties, the Court finds Defendants have met
their burden of establishing that Costa Rica is a superior forum to litigate
Plaintiffs’ claims as opposed to California. 
 Therefore, the Court grants Defendants’ motion to dismiss for
inconvenient forum per Code of Civil Procedure section 418.10, and dismisses
Plaintiffs’ complaint without prejudice.   Defendants shall provide notice of this Court’s ruling and file a proof
of service of such.   DATED:  December 15, 2023                        ___________________________                                                                        Michael
E. Whitaker                                                                        Judge
of the Superior Court 

