 Case Number:  23SMCP00370    Hearing Date:   December 15, 2023    Dept:  207 TENTATIVE RULING 
 



DEPARTMENT


207




HEARING DATE


December 15, 2023




CASE NUMBER


23SMCP00370




MOTION


Petition for Confirmation of Arbitration Award




MOVING PARTY


Petitioner Gursey Schneider LLP




OPPOSING PARTY


(none)



 
BACKGROUND
 
            On or about April 26, 2023, an
arbitrator issued an Arbitration Award in favor of Petitioner Gursey Schneider
LLP (“Petitioner”) in the amount of $357,153.02.  On July 7, 2023, Petitioner filed the instant
Petition to Confirm Arbitration Award (the “Petition.)  On November 16, 2023, a hearing was scheduled
for December 15, 2023.  To date, no
response has been filed.  
 
LEGAL
STANDARD
 
            “Any party to an arbitration in which an award has been made may
petition the court to confirm, correct or vacate the award.  The petition
shall name as respondent all parties to the arbitration and may name as
respondents any other persons bound by the arbitration award.”  (Code Civ. Proc. § 1285.)
 
            “A petition under this chapter
shall: (a) Set forth the substance of or have attached a copy of the agreement
to arbitrate unless the petitioner denies the existence of such an agreement;
(b) Set forth the names of the arbitrators; and (c) Set forth or have attached
a copy of the award and the written opinion of the arbitrators, if any.”  (Code Civ. Proc. § 1285.4.)  
 
            “If a petition or response under
this chapter is duly served and filed, the court shall confirm the award as
made, whether rendered in this state or another state, unless in accordance
with this chapter it corrects the award and confirms it as corrected, vacates
the award or dismisses the proceeding. 
(Code Civ. Proc. § 1286.)
 
ANALYSIS
 
            Service of the Petition and
Notice of Hearing
 
            Code of Civil Procedure section 1290.4 requires the Petition
and Notice of Hearing to be served on Respondent “in the manner provided in the
arbitration agreement for the service of such petition and notice” or “[i]f the
arbitration agreement does not provide the manner in which such service shall
be made . . . [s]ervice within this State shall be made in the manner provided
by law for the service of summons in an action.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 1290.4,
subds. (a)-(b).)  
 
            Attached as Exhibit A to the
Petition is the signed Litigation Consulting Services Engagement Agreement
containing the arbitration provision. 
The Agreement does not provide the manner in which service and notice of
a petition to confirm the arbitration award shall be perfected.  
 
            The proofs of service for the July
7, 2023 Petition and the November 16 Notice of Hearing indicate the Petition
and Notice of Hearing were mailed to “Darren G. Smith, Esq.” who is listed as
“Attorney for Respondent.”   The Arbitrator served Respondent with the
Arbitration Award via Mr. Smith at the same address.  (Exhibit C to Petition.)  
 
            The Court finds this notice
insufficient.  Because the Arbitration
Agreement does not indicate the manner in which service and notice of a
petition to confirm an arbitration award, the Petition must be served in the
manner provided for service of summons.  Because
Respondent was not apparently served either personally, by substitute service
or by mail. in accordance with the rules for service of a summons, the Court
cannot grant the Petition.
 
CONCLUSION AND ORDER
 
In lieu of denying the Petition,
the Court continues the confirmation hearing to February 15, 2024 at 8:30 A.M.
in Department 207.  Petitioner shall
perfect service of the Petition on Respondent in conformance with the Court’s
ruling and provide notice of the continued confirmation hearing.  Thereafter, Petitioner shall file proofs of
service regarding the same.    
 
 
 
DATED: 
December 15, 2023                                                ___________________________
                                                                                          Michael
E. Whitaker
                                                                                          Judge
of the Superior Court
 