 Case Number:  23STCV02188    Hearing Date:   April 2, 2024    Dept:  47 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Theresa M. Traber, Department 47
 
 
HEARING DATE:     April 2, 2024              TRIAL DATE: VACATED
                                                           
CASE:                         Selina Spraggins , et al. v. Pama V Properties LP, et al. 
 
CASE NO.:                 23STCV02188            
 
PETITION
TO APPROVE MINOR’S COMPROMISE OF PENDING ACTION

 
MOVING PARTY:               Plaintiff Elda Manuela Velasquez, as parent and
Guardian ad Litem of Arlyn Jared Martinez Velasquez 
 
RESPONDING PARTY(S): No response on
eCourt as of 3/27/24
 
CASE
HISTORY:
·        
02/01/23: Complaint filed. 
·        
04/25/23: Case deemed related to Case No.
23STCV001663, designated as lead case. 
 
STATEMENT
OF MATERIAL FACTS AND/OR PROCEEDINGS:
            
            This is a habitability action. Plaintiffs, who are and were tenants at
the Chesapeake Apartments, a residential apartment complex, allege that
Defendants permitted the premises to develop extensive uninhabitable conditions
and allowed those conditions to persist in violation of statutes and municipal
ordinances. Plaintiffs seek monetary and injunctive relief.
 
Plaintiff Elda Manuela Velasquez,
as parent and Guardian ad Litem of Arlyn Jared Martinez Velasquez, petitions
for approval of a compromise of the minor’s claims. 
 
TENTATIVE RULING:
 
The Petition for Approval of
Minors’ Compromise of Claims is GRANTED. 
 
DISCUSSION:
 
            Plaintiff Elda
Manuela Velasquez, as parent and Guardian ad Litem of Arlyn Jared Martinez
Velasquez (age 15) seeks approval of the minors’ compromise with Defendants. 
Legal Standard
 
Court approval is required
for all settlements of a minor’s claim or that of a person lacking the capacity
to make decisions.  (Prob. Code, §§ 2504, 3500, 3600 et seq.; Code
Civ. Proc., § 372; see Pearson v. Superior Court (2012) 202 Cal.App.4th
1333, 1337.)  “[T]he
protective role the court generally assumes in cases involving minors, [is] a
role to assure that whatever is done is in the minor’s best interests . . . .  [I]ts primary concern is whether the compromise is sufficient to
provide for the minor’s injuries, care and treatment.”  (Goldberg v.
Superior Court (1994) 23 Cal.App.4th 1378, 1382.)   
 
A petition for court
approval of a compromise or covenant not to sue under Code of Civil Procedure
section 372 must comply with California Rules of Court Rules 7.950, 7.951, and
7.952.  The petition must be verified by the petitioner and contain a full
disclosure of all information that has “any bearing upon the reasonableness” of
the compromise or the covenant.  (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 7.950.) 
The person compromising the claim on behalf of the minor or person who lacks
capacity, and the represented person, must attend the hearing on compromise of
the claim unless the court for good cause dispenses with their personal
appearance.  (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 7.952(a).) 
An order for deposit of funds of a minor or
person lacking decision-making capacity and a petition for the withdrawal of
such funds must comply with California Rules of Court Rules 7.953 and
7.954.  (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1384; see also Super. Ct. L.A.
County, Local Rules, rules 4.115-4.118.) 
 
Form MC-350 (Rev. January 1, 2021):
 
The petition has been verified by
Petitioners and presented on a fully completed mandatory Judicial Council Form
MC-350, using the current January 1, 2021 revision. (Cal. Rule of Court Rule
7.950.)
 
Settlement:
 
Plaintiffs are a family of three
adults and one minor child. (Declaration of Zaina Alfi ISO Petitions ¶ 4.)
Pursuant to the settlement with Defendants, Victor Rene Martinez Sampson and
Elda Manuela Velasquez will each receive $65,403.85, Axel Yahir Martinez
Velasquez will receive $55,769.23, and the minor will receive $36,500. (Id.
Exh. C.) 
 
Attorney’s Fees
 
The retained attorney’s information
has been disclosed as required by Rule of Court 7.951. (Petition ¶ 17b.)  There is an agreement for services provided
in connection with the underlying claim. (Petition ¶ 17a(2).)  A copy of the agreement was submitted with
the Petition as strictly required by Rule of Court 7.951(6). (Attach. 17a(2).) 
 
Petitioner’s counsel is seeking to
recover $10,950.00 in attorney’s fees on the petition, representing 30% of the
minor’s gross settlement award, plus $407.94 in costs, for a total of $11,357.94.
(See Petition ¶ 16e.)  Counsel has
provided a declaration addressing the reasonableness of the fee request, as
required by Rule of Court 7,995(c), accounting for the factors specified in
Rule of Court 7,955(b). CRC Rule 7.955(b) provides:
 
(b) Factors the court may consider in
determining a reasonable attorney's fee.  
In determining a reasonable attorney's fee, the court may consider the
following nonexclusive factors:
 
 (1) The fact that a minor or person with a
disability is involved and the circumstances of that minor or person with a
disability.
 (2) The amount of the fee in proportion to the
value of the services performed.
 (3) The novelty and difficulty of the
questions involved and the skill required to perform the legal services
properly.
 (4) The amount involved and the results
obtained.
 (5) The time limitations or constraints
imposed by the representative of the minor or person with a disability or by
the circumstances.
 (6) The nature and length of the professional
relationship between the attorney and the representative of the minor or person
with a disability.
 (7) The experience, reputation, and ability of
the attorney or attorneys performing the legal services.
 (8) The time and labor required.
 (9) The informed consent of the representative
of the minor or person with a disability to the fee.
 (10) The relative sophistication of the
attorney and the representative of the minor or person with a disability.
 (11) The likelihood, if apparent to the
representative of the minor or person with a disability when the representation
agreement was made, that the attorney's acceptance of the particular employment
would preclude other employment.
 (12) Whether the fee is fixed, hourly, or
contingent.
 (13) If the fee is contingent:
  
(A) The risk of loss borne by the attorney;
  
(B) The amount of costs advanced by the attorney; and
  
(C) The delay in payment of fees and reimbursement of costs paid by the
attorney.
 (14) Statutory requirements for representation
agreements applicable to particular cases or claims. 
 
(Cal. Rules of Court Rule 7.955(b).) The Court addresses
these factors below.
 
            Amount
of Fee in Proportion to Value of Services Performed
 
            Plaintiff’s
counsel contends that an attorney fee of 30% of the sum recovered on behalf of
the minor claimants is a reasonable fee in proportion to the services provided
and is less than the 40% contingency rate for the adults. (Alfi Decl. ¶ 32(a).)
Plaintiffs’ counsel states that the greater amounts allocated to the adult
Plaintiffs accounts for claims for back rent, statutory damages, and emotional
distress arising from concern for the health and development of their children.

 
            Novelty
and Difficulty
 
            Plaintiff’s
counsel contends that this habitability action was both novel and difficult
because of the number of parties, claims, and applicable regulations. (Alfi
Decl. ¶ 32(b).) 
 
            Amount
Involved and Results Obtained
 
            Plaintiff’s
counsel does not directly address this factor, but the attached accounting of
the full settlement demonstrates that this case settled for nearly $2.4
million. (Alfi Decl. Exh. C.)
 
            Nature
and Length of Professional Relationship
 
            Plaintiffs’
counsel has been representing Plaintiffs since 2023. (Alfi Decl. ¶ 32(c).)
 
            Experience,
Reputation, and Ability of Counsel
 
            Plaintiffs’
counsel testifies to the experience, reputation, training, and skills of the
several attorneys involved with this case. (Alfi Decl. ¶¶ 28 p.13 - ¶ 34 p.14.)
 
            Time and
Labor Required
 
            Plaintiffs’
counsel has been working this case for over one year, and state that it
involved extensive investigation, discovery, negotiation, and substantive
motion practice, accounting for some 1,000 hours. (Id. ¶ 30 p. 9.) 
 
            Acceptance
of Case Precluding Other Employment
 
            Plaintiffs’
counsel does not address whether acceptance of this case precluded other
employment.
 
            Contingent
Fee
 
            Plaintiffs’
counsel states this case was taken strictly on a contingency basis, and all
costs and expenses were borne by Plaintiffs’ counsel. (Id. ¶ 32(g).)
 
            The Court
finds that, although Plaintiffs’ counsel has not addressed all the factors,
Plaintiffs’ counsel has adequately demonstrated the reasonableness of the fee
award.
 
Medical Bills:
 
            No medical
expenses have been incurred. (Petition ¶ 12.) 
 
Costs
 
            Attorney’s
fees in the amount of $10,950.00, plus costs in the amount of $407.94, which
are owed by Petitioner, will be paid by the claimant, for a total of $11,357.94
in costs. (Petition ¶ 16.) 
 
Amount to Be Paid to Minor:
 
The net amount to be paid to the
minor claimant is $25,142.06. (Petition ¶ 15.)
 
Court Appearance:
            
            California
Rule of Court 7.952 requires attendance by the petitioner and claimant unless
the court for good cause dispenses with their personal appearance. The Court
finds that the appearance of the claimant Arlyn Jared Martinez Velasquez is not
required due to his age.
 
Prognosis:
 
            The minor
has completely recovered from his injuries. (Petition ¶ 8.)
 
Disposition of Balance of Proceeds:
 
            The
petition requests that the balance of the proceeds be invested in a
single-premium deferred annuity, subject to withdrawal only on authorization of
the Court. (Petition ¶ 18b.) The petitions include the terms and conditions of
that annuity. (Attach. 18b(5).) 
 
Proposed Order MC-351:
 
            Petitioner
has filed a Proposed Order Form MC-351 for the minor claimant. 
 
The Court finds the settlement to
be fair and adequate. As the petition is procedurally in order, the Petition
for Approval of Minor’s Compromise is GRANTED.
 
CONCLUSION:

 
            Accordingly,
the Petition for Approval of Minor’s Compromise of Claims is GRANTED. 
 
            Moving
Parties to give notice.
 
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
Dated: April 2, 2024                           ___________________________________
                                                                                    Theresa
M. Traber
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court
 

            Any party may submit on the
tentative ruling by contacting the courtroom via email at Smcdept47@lacourt.org by no later than 4:00 p.m. the day
before the hearing. All interested parties must be copied on the email. It
should be noted that if you submit on a tentative ruling the court will still
conduct a hearing if any party appears. By submitting on the tentative you
have, in essence, waived your right to be present at the hearing, and you
should be aware that the court may not adopt the tentative, and may issue an
order which modifies the tentative ruling in whole or in part.
 