  Case Number:  21CHCV00111    Hearing Date:   October 12, 2023    Dept:  F47 Dept. F47 Date: 10/12/23 Case #21CHCV00111   SECOND AMENDED MOTION  TO COMPEL DEPOSITION  OF  PERSON MOST  QUALIFIED   Motion filed on 7/7/23.   MOVING PARTY: Plaintiff Vav Plastics, Inc. RESPONDING PARTY: Defendant Arminak Solutions dba KBL  Cosmetics  NOTICE: ok   RELIEF REQUESTED: An order compelling the deposition of the  person most qualified of Defendant Arminak Solutions dba KBL Cosmetics to  answer questions and to produce documents at deposition as specified in the  second amended deposition notice served on 5/8/23.     Additionally, Plaintiff requests sanctions  against Arminak LLC and their attorneys of record in favor of Plaintiff in the  amount of $8,914.65     RULING: The motion is granted as set forth  below.         SUMMARY OF FACTS & PROCEDURAL HISTORY   This action arises out of Plaintiff Vav Plastics, Inc.’s  (Plaintiff) claim that Defendants Arminak Solutions dba KBL Cosmetics (Arminak LLC)  and Apackaging Group,  LLC (Apackaging) (collectively,  Defendants) failed to pay for certain goods.   As a result, Plaintiff filed this action against Defendants for breach  of oral contract and common counts.   Defendants answered the complaint and filed a cross-complaint against  Plaintiff claiming that the bottles supplied by Plaintiff were defective  causing Arminak LLC to suffer damages as the bottles were needed to fulfill  terms of a certain contract with Colgate.   (See Manukyan Decl., Ex.A).   Arminak LLC has since dismissed its cross-complaint; however, it  continues to raise the alleged defectiveness of the bottles as a defense to  Plaintiff’s claims.  (Manukyan  Decl.).     Plaintiff noticed Arminak LLC’s person most qualified (PMQ) deposition on 1/10/23 for 2/6/23.   (Manukyan Decl., Ex.B).  On  2/1/23, Arminak LLC served objections to the deposition notice.  (Manukyan Decl. ¶15).  On 2/3/23, Arminak  LLC’s attorney indicated that Arminak LLC  would not appear for deposition and sent Corrected Objections.  (Manukyan Decl. ¶¶17-18, Ex.D, E).  Later that day, Arminak LLC’s attorney said  that Arminak LLC would appear.  (Id.  ¶19, Ex.E).  However, the witness that  appeared, Dawn Kim, was a former employee who did not have information  regarding the deposition topics.  (See  Manukyan Decl. ¶21, Ex.F).     Thereafter, counsel for the parties met and conferred for  several months in an attempt to resolve this discovery dispute.  In April 2023, Arminak LLC finally agreed to  produce Helga Arminak as its PMQ and indicated her availability on  6/21/23.  (Manukyan Decl. ¶¶26-27,  Ex.G).  Therefore, on 5/8/23,  Plaintiff served its Second Amended Notice of  Taking Deposition of Person Most Qualified of Arminak LLC and Request for  Production of Documents and Things.  (Id.  ¶28, Ex.H).  Arminak LLC served its  objections on 6/7/23.  (Id. ¶29,  Ex.I).  On 6/9/23, Arminak’s then counsel  insisted that Plaintiff agree to combine the depositions of Arminak LLC’s PMQ  and Helga Arminak in her individual capacity or no witness would appear.  (Id. ¶30, Ex.J).  On 6/16/23, Arminak LLC filed a motion for  protective order regarding the depositions but did not stay the PMQ  deposition.  (Id. ¶31, Ex.K).  On 6/21/23, Plaintiff took the non-appearance  of Arminak LLC’s PMQ.  (Id. ¶32,  Ex.L).  Later, Arminak LLC took the  motion for protective order off calendar.   (See 8/28/23 Notice of Withdrawal).   On 7/7/23, Plaintiff filed and served the instant second  amended motion to compel the deposition of Arminak LLC’s PMQ to answer  questions and to produce documents at deposition as specified in the second  amended deposition notice served on 5/8/23.   Additionally, Plaintiff requests sanctions against Arminak LLC and their  attorneys of record in favor of Plaintiff in the amount of $8,914.65.  On 8/30/23, Arminak LLC filed a substitution  of attorney substituting  in Armin Azod  of Steffin Azod LLP as its counsel in place of Sean P. Flynn of Gordon Rees  Scully Mansukhani, LLP.  On 10/9/23,  Arminak LLC filed a combined late response to this motion and the motion to  compel deposition of Helga Arminak which is also scheduled for hearing on  10/12/23.  On 10/10/23, Plaintiff filed a  combined reply to the response.      ANALYSIS   In response to a notice for deposition of Arminak LLC’s  person most qualified, Arminak LLC was obligated to produce a witness “most  qualified” and that witness was required to “inform himself or herself as to  the information known to the entity.”  See  The Rutter Group, California Practice Guide: Civil Procedure Before Trial,  §8:473.  When a request for documents  accompanies the notice, the witness or someone in authority “is expected to  make an inquiry of everyone who might be holding responsive documents or  everyone who knows where such documents might be held.”  Maldonado (2002) 94 C4th 1390, 1396.   As shown by the excerpts from the deposition testimony  from Arminak LLC’s purported PMQ, it is clear that Arminak LLC failed to  produce a qualified witness in response to Plaintiff’s notice of taking Arminak  LLC’s person most qualified deposition.   (See Manukyan Decl., Ex.F).   Arminak LLC then attempted to produce an individual, Rami  Elkhoury, who is not and was not employed by Arminak LLC during the relevant  time periods and, therefore, does not qualify as a person most qualified.  See CCP 2025.230.  Thereafter, Arminak LLC refused to produce a  person most qualified for deposition unless Plaintiff agreed to Arminak LLC’s unwarranted  demand that such deposition be combined with the deposition of Helga Arminak,  in her individual capacity, and limit the time for both depositions to 7  hours.     Arminak LLC has failed to justify its objections to the  document requests which accompanied the second amended notice of taking  deposition of Arminak LLC’s person most qualified.  See Fairmont Insurance Co.  (2000) 22 C4th 245, 255; Coy (1962) 58 C2d 210, 220-221.  The documents requested are relevant to the  subject matter of this action as they relate to Arminak LLC’s defenses (i.e.,  that Arminak LLC should not have to pay for bottles received because they were  defective.   In Arminak LLC’s late response to the motion, it  indicates that through its new counsel it has agreed to make Helga Arminak  available for two depositions, one in her individual capacity and one as  Arminak LLC’s person most qualified.  The  response indicates that Ms. Arminak will be made available for deposition once  the documents relevant to her deposition have been produced which Defendants  are working to complete.     The response also requests that sanctions not be imposed,  particularly against Arminak LLC’s new counsel as it was not involved in the  discovery dispute and has been working to resolve it since substituting into  the case.        The Court finds that Plaintiff is entitled to an award of  sanctions for Arminak LLC’s failure to comply with its discovery  obligations.  See CCP 2023.010;  CCP 2023.030; CCP 2025.480(j).  Plaintiff  requests sanctions in the amount of $8,914.65 against Arminak LLC and “their  attorneys/counsel of record.”  The  request to impose sanctions against Arminak LLC’s attorneys/counsel of record  does not comply with the obligation to identify in the notice of motion “every  person, party and attorney against whom the sanction is sought.”  See CCP 2023.040.  Moreover, as noted above, Arminak LLC filed a  substitution of attorney on 8/29/23 after this discovery dispute began and  after this motion was filed.   Additionally, it appears that Arminak’s new counsel has been working to  resolve the discovery dispute.  However,  Arminak LLC has failed to establish why it should not be sanctioned for causing  Plaintiff to incur attorney’s fees and costs related to the prior depositions  and the instant motion.  Therefore, the  Court finds that sanctions are warranted against Arminak LLC but not its “counsel  of record.”     The Court also reduces the amount of sanctions to  $5,089.65 calculated as follows: (2 hours to depose Arminak LLC’s unqualified  witness, 4 hours to prepare the instant motion and supporting papers, ½ hour  preparing for and attend the 6/21/23 deposition, ½ hour to prepare and appear  at the hearing on this motion for a total of 7 hours at $450/hour = $3,150) +  ($1,045 in costs to conduct the 2/6/23 deposition) + ($833 in costs to conduct  the 6/21/23 deposition) + ($61.65 filing fee)   = $5,089.65.   (See Manukyan Decl. ¶¶33-36, Ex.M, N).   CONCLUSION   The motion is granted.   Defendant Arminak Solutions dba KBL Cosmetics is ordered to produce its  person most qualified to answer questions and to produce documents at  deposition as specified in the second amended deposition notice served on  5/8/23 within the next 30 days.  Counsel  for the parties are ordered to meet and confer regarding a mutually agreeable  date for the deposition to take place within the next 30 days.     Sanctions are imposed on Defendant Arminak LLC in the  amount of $5,089.65, payable within the next 30 days.     Dept. F47 Date: 10/12/23                                                          TRIAL DATE: 5/28/24 Case #21CHCV00111   MOTION TO  COMPEL DEPOSITION   Motion filed on 7/20/23.   MOVING PARTY: Plaintiff Vav Plastics, Inc. RESPONDING PARTY: Defendants Arminak Solutions dba KBL  Cosmetics and Apackaging Group LLC NOTICE: ok   RELIEF REQUESTED: An order compelling the deposition of Helga Arminak.  Additionally, Plaintiff requests sanctions  against Helga Arminak and her attorneys of record in favor of Plaintiff in the  amount of $4,183.90.     RULING: The motion is granted as set forth  below.         SUMMARY OF FACTS & PROCEDURAL HISTORY   This action arises out of Plaintiff Vav Plastics, Inc.’s  (Plaintiff) claim that Defendants Arminak Solutions dba KBL Cosmetics (Arminak LLC)  and Apackaging Group,  LLC (Apackaging) (collectively,  Defendants) failed to pay for certain goods.   As a result, Plaintiff filed this action against Defendants for breach  of oral contract and common counts.   Defendants answered the complaint and filed a cross-complaint against  Plaintiff claiming that the bottles supplied by Plaintiff were defective  causing Arminak LLC to suffer damages as the bottles were needed to fulfill  terms of a certain contract with Colgate.   Arminak LLC has since dismissed its cross-complaint; however, it  continues to raise the alleged defectiveness of the bottles as a defense to  Plaintiff’s claims.     Ms. Arminak is the owner of both Arminak LLC and  Apackaging.  Ms. Arminak is also the  owner of the third-party entity Adonis, Inc. (Adonis), who the Defendants apparently  hired to engage in the manufacturing process using Plaintiff’s bottles.  Also, pursuant to representations from  Arminak LLC’s former counsel, Ms. Arminak is the sole remaining employee of  Arminak LLC.   Plaintiff initially noticed Ms. Arminak’s deposition on  3/25/22 to take place on 4/20/22.   (Manukyan Decl., Ex.A).  The  notice included requests for production of documents.  Id.   The deposition did not proceed.   (Manukyan Decl.).  After much back  and forth, the first session of Ms. Arminak’s deposition took place on  8/30/22.  (Manukyan Decl.).  At the deposition, Ms. Arminak testified that  she did not look for or bring any of the requested documents to the deposition.  (Manukyan Decl. ¶13, Ex.D).  Therefore, the deposition was suspended.  Id.   Since that time, Plaintiff has been trying to complete  Ms. Arminak’s deposition.  (Manukyan  Decl., Ex.E-M). On 7/20/23, Plaintiff filed and served the instant motion  seeking an order compelling the deposition of Helga Arminak.  Additionally, Plaintiff requests sanctions  against Helga Arminak and her attorneys of record in favor of Plaintiff in the  amount of $4,183.90.  On 8/30/23, Defendants  LLC filed a substitution of attorney substituting  in Armin Azod of Steffin Azod LLP as its  counsel in place of Sean P. Flynn of Gordon Rees Scully Mansukhani, LLP.  On 10/9/23, Defendants filed a combined late  response to this motion and the motion to compel deposition of Arminak LLC’s  person most qualified which is also scheduled for hearing on 10/12/23.  On 10/10/23, Plaintiff filed a combined reply  to the response.      ANALYSIS   The late response to the motion indicates that through their  new counsel, Defendants have agreed to make Helga Arminak available for two  depositions, one in her individual capacity and one as Arminak LLC’s person  most qualified.  The response indicates  that Ms. Arminak will be made available for deposition once the documents  relevant to her deposition have been produced which Defendants are working to  complete.     The response also requests that sanctions not be imposed,  particularly against Defendants’ new counsel as it was not involved in the  discovery dispute and has been working to resolve it since substituting into  the case.        The Court finds that Plaintiff is entitled to an award of  sanctions for Ms. Arminak’s failure to comply with her discovery  obligations.  See CCP 2023.010;  CCP 2023.030; CCP 2025.450(a), (g)(1).   Plaintiff requests sanctions in the amount of $4,183.90 against Ms. Arminak  and “her attorneys/counsel of record.”   The request to impose sanctions against Defendants’/Ms. Arminak’s attorneys/counsel  of record does not comply with the obligation to identify in the notice of  motion “every person, party and attorney against whom the sanction is  sought.”  See CCP 2023.040.  Moreover, as noted above, Defendants filed a  substitution of attorney on 8/29/23 after this discovery dispute began and  after this motion was filed.   Additionally, it appears that the new counsel has been working to  resolve the discovery dispute.  However, Ms.  Arminak has failed to establish she should not be sanctioned for causing  Plaintiff to incur attorney’s fees and costs related to the prior depositions  and the instant motion.  Therefore, the  Court finds that sanctions are warranted against Ms. Arminak but not Defendants’  “counsel of record.”     The Court also reduces the amount of sanctions to $2,833.90  calculated as follows: (3 hours to prepare the instant motion and supporting  papers, ½ hour attending and taking Ms. Arminak’s non-appearance, ½ hour to  prepare the reply, ½ hour to prepare and appear at the hearing on this motion  for a total of 4.5 hours at $450/hour = $2,025) + ($747.25 in costs for  non-appearance) + ($61.65 filing fee)  = $2,833.90.  (See  Manukyan Decl. ¶¶23-26, Ex.M, N).   CONCLUSION   The motion is granted.   Helga Arminak is ordered to appear for her deposition within the next 30  days.  Counsel for the parties are  ordered to meet and confer regarding a mutually agreeable date for the  deposition to take place within the next 30 days.     Sanctions are imposed on Helga Arminak LLC in the amount  of $2,833.90, payable within the next 30 days.      