

Hearing Date:             March 29,
2024
Case Name:                Maple
DTLA, LLC v. Chuwdry  
Case No.:                    23STCV12653
Motion:                       Motion
to Set Aside and Vacate Default Judgment 
Moving Party:             Defendant Shohel Rana Chuwdry

Opposing Party:          Plaintiff
Maple DTLA, LLC

Tentative Ruling:      The
Motion to Vacate and Set Aside the Default Judgment is denied.  

             
This action arises from a breach of
commercial lease. Plaintiff Maple DTLA, LLC (Plaintiff) sued Defendant Shohel
Rana Chuwdry (Defendant) asserting a single cause of action for a breach of
contract. Plaintiff alleges Defendant now owes $98,750.
Thereafter, Plaintiff moved for entry of default
judgment. Following multiple attempts, the Court entered default judgment on February
7, 2024. 
On February 16,
2024, Defendant Chuwdry moved to set aside the entry of default judgment
pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 473, subdivisions (b), (d), and
Section 473.5.[1]
Plaintiff opposed the motion. No reply was filed.
 
The motion to set
aside and vacate the entry of default and default judgment is denied. 
 
Plaintiff’s objections
to Defendant’s declaration are ruled as follows: Nos. 1-9, 12, 14, 16-19 are
overruled, and Nos. 10-11, 13, 15 are sustained. Plaintiff’s objections to
Garcia’s declaration are ruled as follows: Nos. 1-6 are overruled. 
 
Legal
Standard
 
            Code of Civil Procedure section 473,
subdivision (b) provides for either discretionary or mandatory relief from
certain prior actions or proceedings in the trial court. (Luri¿v. Greenwald¿(2003)
107 Cal.App.4th 1119, 1124.)¿¿
 
            “ ‘Under the discretionary relief
provision, on a showing of “mistake, inadvertence,
surprise, or excusable neglect,”¿the court has discretion to allow relief
from a “judgment, dismissal, order, or other proceeding taken against”¿a party
or his or her attorney.¿¿Under the mandatory relief provision, on the other
hand, upon a showing by attorney declaration of “mistake, inadvertence,
surprise, or neglect,”¿the court shall vacate any “resulting default judgment
or dismissal entered.” ’ [Citation.] Applications seeking relief under the
mandatory provision of section 473 must be ‘accompanied by an attorney’s sworn
affidavit attesting to his or her mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or neglect.’
The mandatory provision¿further adds that ‘whenever relief¿is granted based on
an attorney’s affidavit of fault [the court shall] direct the attorney to pay
reasonable compensatory legal fees and costs¿to opposing counsel or
parties.’¿”  (Ibid.; Code Civ.
Proc., § 473, subd. (b).)¿¿ 
 
            Section 473.5, subdivision (a), provides: “When
service of a summons has not resulted in actual notice to a party in time to
defend the action and a default or default judgment has been entered against
him or her in the action, he or she may serve and file a notice of motion to
set aside the default or default judgment and for leave to defend the action.” 
 
Analysis
 
         Defendant seeks relief from
default judgment pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 473,
subdivisions (b), (d), and Section
473.5.[2] 
 
         Defendant argues the entry of default and default judgment
must be set aside because service of the summons did not result
in actual notice to Defendant in time to defend the action.
That is, Defendant
argues he was never properly served with the complaint and summons in this
case.
            
            Section 473.5, subdivision (a), provides: “When service
of a summons has not resulted in actual notice to a party in time to defend the
action and a default or default judgment has been entered against him or her in
the action, he or she may serve and file a notice of motion to set aside the
default or default judgment and for leave to defend the action.” The section
473.5 motion must “be accompanied by an affidavit showing under oath that the
party's lack of actual notice in time to defend the action was not caused by
his or her avoidance of service or inexcusable neglect.” (Id., subd.
(b).) The moving party bears the “burden of showing that [its] lack of actual
notice was not caused by ... avoidance of service or inexcusable neglect.” (Rios
v. Singh (2021) 65 Cal.App.5th 871, 885.)
 
            The evidence is that on July 17, 2023, Plaintiff, through
a registered process server, sub-served Defendant by leaving a copy of the
Complaint with “Priya Silva” at Defendant’s place of business. (Shakouri Decl.,
¶ 4, Ex, C.) The registered process server substitute served the Summons and
Complaint at 1333 Maple Ave, Los Angeles, California 90015 on Priya Silva; Age:
30s; Ethnicity: Unknown; Gender: Female; Weight: 140; Height: 5’6”; Hair:
Brown; Relationship: Wife, who answered the door, and identified herself as
Defendant’s wife. (See
Shakouri Decl., ¶¶ 5-6, Ex. B.) On July 18, 2023, Plaintiff’s registered
process server then mailed a copy of the same, addressed to Defendant, at 1333
Maple Ave, Los Angeles, California, 90015. (See Shakouri Decl., ¶¶ 5-6, Ex. B.) 


            In moving for relief, Defendant represents he was not in
the country at the time of service. He states that, after his father and
brother died, he repeatedly traveled back and forth from Bangladesh during the
months of June and July in 2023. (Chuwdry Decl., ¶ 5.) Defendant submits an Expedia
travel receipt showing a flight in Defendant’s name leaving on July 9, 2023.
(Chuwdry Decl., Ex. A.) Defendant represents that he informed Plaintiff that he
would be out of the country during the time service was purportedly effectuated.
(Chuwdry Decl., ¶ 6.)
 
            Defendant also submits the declaration of Norma Silva
Garcia who states that she was not at Defendant’s place of business on July 17,
2023; she also contends that the process server’s description of the person served
does not match her own description as she is in her 30s, is “very short” and
her name is not Priya Silva. (Garcia Decl., ¶ 4.) 
 
            Defendant’s evidence in support of his motion is not
credible. 
 
            First, with respect to the process server’s use of the
name “Priya,” Plaintiff submits evidence in opposition showing that Defendant’s
wife had previously identified herself by the name “Priya.” (Kachroo Decl., ¶
4, Ex. A [text messages].) 
             
            Further, Plaintiff
notes that what is conspicuously absent from Defendant’s evidence is any
assertion as to who was actually served on July 17, 2023, and why no one
informed Defendant that a process server had come to the business premises. 
            Additionally, Defendant states that he first
learned about this lawsuit in December 2023, months after default was entered
against him on August 29, 2023. (Chuwdry Decl., ¶ 8.) However, Defendant provides
no details of how he learned of the default.[3]

            Because
of the discrepancies and omissions, Defendant fails to carry his burden of demonstrating
a lack of actual notice or that his lack of action was not due to avoidance of
service or inexcusable neglect. Rather, Defendant’s declaration appears to be
deliberately conclusory and vague. The case law is clear that “conclusory”
declarations without supporting facts cannot support relief. (See Rios, supra,
65 Cal.App.5th at pp. 885-886 [affirming denial of § 473.5 motion
where movant's “conclusory declaration does not satisfy his burden” without
stating “any supporting facts”]; Sakaguchi v. Sakaguchi (2009) 173
Cal.App.4th 852, 861-862 [affirming denial of § 473.5 motion
where affidavit did not “show that any lack of knowledge was caused by
excusable neglect”]; Anastos v. Lee (2004) 118 Cal.App.4th
1314, 1319 [“declaration of counsel failed to show that any inferred lack
of notice was not caused by defendants’ avoidance or inexcusable neglect....
Absent a proper affidavit or declaration that the defendants’ lack of actual notice was
not caused by inexcusable neglect or avoidance of service, the trial court
properly denied the defendants’ motion”].)
            Lastly,
to the extent that Defendant also relies on Code of Civil Procedure section
473, subdivision (b) for relief – Defendant’s evidence is also insufficient to
show “mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or excusable neglect” for the same reasons. 
 
Conclusion
 
            The motion to set aside the entry of
default and default judgment is denied. 


