

 
This action arose from a dispute regarding real property located
at 9659 East Poinciana Street, Pico Rivera, CA 90660 (Property). On February 17,
2021, Plaintiff Sara Marie Alamo filed a Complaint against Defendant Joe Miguel
Alamo, Jr. for (1.) quiet title, (2.) declaratory relief, and (3.) cancellation
of instrument. 
 
On May 11, 2023, Plaintiff filed a notice of settlement indicating
that the parties had reached a settlement of this matter, including a
stipulation that this Court retain jurisdiction under Code of Civil Procedure
Section 664.6. 
 
Plaintiff now moves to enforce the settlement agreement
against Defendant Joe Miguel Alamo, Jr. and for the appointment of an elisor. Defendant
filed an opposition.  
 
The motion to enforce the settlement is granted. 
 
Legal Standard
 
The Court is authorized to enter judgment pursuant to the
stipulated settlement. (Code Civ. Proc. § 664.6.) In reviewing a motion to
enforce a settlement, the Court determines “whether the parties entered into a
valid and binding settlement.” (Hines v.
Lukes (2008) 167 Cal.App.4th 1174, 1182.) “A settlement is enforceable
under section 664.6 only if the parties agreed to all material settlement
terms. [Citations.] The court ruling on the motion may consider the parties’
declarations and other evidence in deciding what terms the parties agreed to,
and the court’s factual findings in this regard are reviewed under the
substantial evidence standard. 
[Citations.] If the court determines that the parties entered into an
enforceable settlement, it should grant the motion and enter a formal judgment
pursuant to the terms of the settlement.” 
(Id. at pp. 1182-1183; see
also Osumi v. Sutton (2007) 151
Cal.App.4th 1355, 1357 [“Strong public policy in favor of the settlement of
civil cases gives the trial court, which approves the settlement, the power to
enforce it”].)
 
Strict compliance with
the statutory requirements is necessary before a court can enforce a settlement
agreement under section 664.6. (Sully-Miller Contracting Co. v.
Gledson/Cashman Construction, Inc. (2002) 103 Cal.App.4th 30, 37.) The
party seeking to enforce a settlement “must first establish the agreement at
issue was set forth ‘in a writing signed by the parties’ (§ 664.6) or was made
orally before the court.  [Citation.]” (Harris v. Rudin, Richman
& Appel (1999) 74 Cal.App.4th 299, 304.)
 
Discussion
 
            Plaintiff seeks to enforce the parties’ settlement
agreement pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 664.6.   
 
            The entirety of the Settlement terms are as follows:
 
“Plaintiff, SARA MARIE
ALAMO, and Defendant, JOE MIGUEL ALAMO, JR., 
hereby agree to settle this matter on the following terms: 
1) The Defendant will
release/reconvey the Deed of Trust in issue; 
2) In return Plaintiff
will agree to a lien against the property in favor of Defendant in the amount
of $20,000, no interest, to be paid on the sale of the property; 
3) Plaintiff will also
agree to a lien in favor of her two sisters - Jenna Alamo and Samar Alamo -
each in amount $43,333.33, no interest, payable on sale of the property. 
4) The liens in item 2
and 3 will be executed and filed concurrently; 
5) This action shall be
dismissed with prejudice, each side to bear their own attorneys' fees and
costs; 
6) The parties shall
jointly prepare a long form agreement with standard terms including complete
releases; and 
7) The court shall
retained [sic] jurisdiction pursuant to CCP section 664.6.” (Emphasis added)
 
Plaintiff moves for enforcement
of the settlement agreement on the grounds that Defendant is now demanding an
additional term be added to the Settlement between the parties: a requirement
that the subject property must be sold by a certain date.[1]
As noted by Plaintiff, there is no express term requiring the sale of the Property
by a certain date. Plaintiff seeks enforcement of the Settlement without this added
condition. 
 
In opposition, Defendant
argues that the clause at issue, “to be paid on the
sale of the property,” is reasonably susceptible to two different meanings.
Defendant argues that the Court should adopt his interpretation because Plaintiff’s
interpretation exploits an ambiguity in the Settlement to effectively give Plaintiff
a life estate at her election. Defendant argues that the parties never intended
to give Plaintiff a life estate. Rather, Defendant and his counsel entered into
the Settlement with the understanding that Plaintiff intended to sell the
Property immediately. (Kerendian Decl., ¶ 2; J. Alamo Decl., ¶ 2.)[2]
 
 
Defendant argues that if
the Court enters this Settlement without this added term, “all it will do is
multiply the proceedings and compound costs and fees, as Defendant will need to
immediately file a lawsuit for partition against Plaintiff and her sisters in
order to force the sale. There will be no defense to that action. Partition
will be (is) a matter of right for Defendant. This fact alone should clearly
indicate that Plaintiff’s “interpretation” of the Agreement is not the correct
one.” (Opp., 2:23-28.)
 
The Settlement is not
ambiguous. Contrary to Defendant’s assertion, there is no obvious ambiguity on
the face of the Settlement. Further, Defendant’s evidence does not show a
latent ambiguity. Admittedly, ambiguities may be exposed by extrinsic evidence
which reveals more than one possible meaning to which the language of the
contract is reasonably susceptible. (Morey v. Vannucci (1998) 64
Cal.App.4th 904, 912.) Here, however, Defendant’s belief on the timing of a
sale is based solely on a vague representation by one party; this representation
does not add any meaning to the “to be paid on the sale of the property,”
language in the Settlement. Thus, there is no extrinsic evidence suggesting a latent
ambiguity as to this term, either. 
 
Absent an ambiguity for
the Court to construe, Defendant’s request seeks to add a new material term. However,
“[i]n construing a contract ... [t]he court
does not have the power to create for the parties a contract which they did not
make, and it cannot insert in the contract language which one of the parties
now wishes were there. [Citations.] Courts will not add a term about which a
contract is silent.” (California Union
Square L.P. v. Saks & Co. LLC (2021) 71 Cal.App.5th 136, 146 [quoting Levi
Strauss & Co. v. Aetna Casualty & Surety Co. (1986) 184 Cal.App.3d
1479, 1486].)
 
Accordingly, Plaintiff’s
motion to enforce the settlement agreements complies with all the requirements
of Code of Civil Procedure section 664.6. 
 
Conclusion

 
            The Motion to Enforce the Settlement Agreements pursuant
to Code of Civil Procedure section 664.6 is granted. Within 15 days of service
of the notice of ruling, Plaintiff shall prepare, serve and lodge a single, proposed
Judgment consistent with the Court’s orders herein. 
 
The Court denies
without prejudice the request to appoint an elisor to execute the Full
Reconveyance of the subject Deed of Trust.  Once the Judgment is signed, Defendant will be
under the obligation to reconvey the Deed of Trust.  If Defendant fails to do so within a
reasonable time, Plaintiff may move for an elisor and other sanctions.  Defendant is on notice that such sanctions
may include civil and criminal penalties including sanctions under Code of
Civil Procedure section 177.5.
 


