 Case Number:  21STCV28803    Hearing Date:   September 21, 2023    Dept:  31 TENTATIVE
 
Defendant
Kaplan’s demurrer to the FAC is SUSTAINED in part and OVERRULED in part. The
demurrer is sustained with 30 days leave to amend as to the fifth, seventh, and
eleventh causes of action.  The eighth
cause of action for illegal deduction of wages is sustained without leave to
amend. The demurrer is overruled as to the first and second causes of action. 
 
Defendant’s
motion to strike is DENIED as MOOT in part and GRANTED in part. The motion to
strike is moot as to the claim for punitive damages, and granted with 30 days
leave to amend as to the allegation and request for declaratory and injunctive
relief.
Legal Standard
Demurrer
 
A demurrer for sufficiency tests
whether the complaint states a cause of action. (Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747.)
When considering demurrers, courts read the allegations liberally and in
context. (Taylor v. City of Los Angeles Dept. of Water and Power (2006) 144 Cal.App.4th 1216,
1228.) The court “treat[s] the demurrer as admitting all material facts
properly pleaded, but not contentions, deductions or conclusions of fact or law
….” (Berkley v. Dowds (2007) 152 Cal.App.4th 518, 525).) In a demurrer
proceeding, the defects must be apparent on the face of the pleading or via
proper judicial notice. (Donabedian v. Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994).)
A demurrer tests the pleadings alone and not the evidence or other extrinsic
matters; therefore, it lies only where the defects appear on the face of the
pleading or are judicially noticed. (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 430.30, 430.70.) The
only issue involved in a demurrer hearing is whether the complaint, as it
stands, unconnected with extraneous matters, states a cause of action. (Hahn,
supra, 147 Cal.App.4th at 747.) 
 
“[F]acts in support of each of the requirements
of a statute upon which a cause of action is based must be specifically
pled.”  (Fisher v. San Pedro Peninsula
Hospital (1989) 214 Cal.App.3d 590, 604; see Hawkins v. TACA Internat.
Airlines, S.A. (2014) 223 Cal.App.4th 466, 478 [“[S]imply parroting the
language of [a statute] in the complaint is insufficient to state a cause of
action under the statute.”].)
 
Demurrers for
uncertainty are disfavored, because discovery can be used for clarification,
and apply only where defendants cannot reasonably determine what issues or
claims are stated. (Chen v. Berenjian (2019) 33 Cal.App.5th 811,
822; Khoury v. Maly's of Cal., Inc. (1993) 14 Cal.App.4th 612,
616.) 
 
Motion to Strike
 
The court may,
upon a motion, or at any time in its discretion, and upon terms it deems
proper, strike any irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted in any
pleading.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 436(a).)  The court may also strike all or any part of
any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of this state, a
court rule, or an order of the court.  (Id., § 436(b).)  The grounds for a motion to strike are that
the pleading has irrelevant, false or improper matter, or has not been drawn or
filed in conformity with laws.  (Id. § 436.)  The grounds for moving to strike must appear
on the face of the pleading or by way of judicial notice.  (Id.
§ 437.)  “When the defect which justifies
striking a complaint is capable of cure, the court should allow leave to
amend.”  (Vaccaro v. Kaiman (1998) 63 Cal.App.4th 761, 768.) 
 
Meet and Confer
 
The demurrer and motion to strike are accompanied by the declaration of
Michael Wertheim, which satisfies the meet and confer requirements. (Code Civ. Proc. §§ 430.41;
435.5.)  
 
Discussion 
 
As an initial matter, the Court notes that
Plaintiff filed an SAC after Defendant’s demurrer to the FAC was filed, which
Plaintiff argues makes Defendant’s demurrer moot. 
 
Code of Civil Procedure section 472 states
in relevant part: “A party may amend its pleading once without leave of the
court at any time before the answer, demurrer, or motion to strike is
filed, or after a demurrer or motion to strike is filed but before the demurrer
or motion to strike is heard . . . .” (Code Civ. Proc., § 472, subd. (a).) 
 
Plaintiff already amended his pleading once
without leave of court, by filing the FAC. Any subsequent amendment must have
been upon court order. (Hedwall v. PCMV, LLC (2018) 22 Cal.App.5th 564,
574-579.) Although the FAC was filed upon stipulation, the Court in Hedwall
held that the right to amend the complaint as a matter of right under CCP
section 472 pertains to the original complaint. (Id., 574-575.)
Therefore, as the original complaint was already amended, pursuant to Hedwall,
the SAC was improperly filed, and does not render the demurrer moot.
 
I.                
Demurrer
 
Defendant Kaplan demurs to Plaintiff’s FAC, arguing that all eleven
causes of action fail to state sufficient facts and are uncertain.
a.    
Release
Defendant first
argues that Plaintiff released any claims related to the PIPs and SARs, and
thus, his fifth cause of action for money had and received, seventh cause of
action for violation of California Penal Code 496,
eighth cause of action for violation of Labor Code—illegal deduction of wages,
and eleventh cause of action for conversion all fail. (FAC, Exhs. 12, 13.)
Those Releases release Kaplan from any claims that Plaintiff may have
arising out of or relating to any PIP payments or Plaintiff’s employment with
Performance Team. (Id., Exh. 12.)
The PIP Release provides in pertinent part: 
Effective upon the payment to the
undersigned of the PIP Payment Amount and consideration in the amount of
$5,000, the sufficiency of which is hereby acknowledged, [Plaintiff]...forever,
unconditionally and irrevocably releases and forever discharges (and covenants
not to sue) the Company, PT Holdings, [Damco Distribution Services, Inc.] and
each of their current and former...directors, managers... in respect of,
arising out of, relating to, as a result of or in connection with...the
calculation and determination of the PIP Payment Amount...or with respect to
[Plaintiff’s] receipt of the PIP Payment Amount.... 
(FAC, Exh. 12, pp. 2-3.)
Similarly, Plaintiff signed a Release of claims
related to SAR payments. (FAC, Exh. 13.) Under the terms of the SAR Release,
Plaintiff acknowledged the sufficiency of all payments owed to Plaintiff by
defendant Performance Team, and Plaintiff agreed to release any and all claims
he may have had against Performance Team’s agents or employees (such as Mr.
Kaplan) relating to his employment. Defendant argues the Release is clear and
unambiguous:
Participant understands payment under the
2019 SAR Agreement is intended as a full and complete payment satisfying any
rights to related benefits or compensation under that Agreement and any
predecessor or related agreements. Participant acknowledges the sufficiency and
satisfaction of all payments owed to Participant by Company, Performance Team
PIP LLC, or any other related entity... at the time the release is signed,
including without limitation the payment of wages, bonuses, 2011 Performance
Team LLC Stock Appreciation Rights Plan, and amount under the Performance Team
PIP LLC Restricted Unit Incentive Plan. 
(FAC, Exh. 13, p. 1.)
Where the complaint's allegations or judicially noticeable
facts reveal the existence of an affirmative defense, the "plaintiff must
'plead around' the defense, by alleging specific facts that would avoid the
apparent defense. Absent such allegations, the complaint is subject to demurrer
for failure to state a cause of action. . . .'' (Gentry v. Ebay, Inc. (2000)
99 Cal.App.4th 816, 824.)
Defendant contends that Plaintiff fails to
plead around the affirmative defense of release. Though Plaintiff offers a vague conclusion that
his signatures on these Releases – which are conceded to be his own – somehow
were obtained through legal duress (FAC ¶29), he offers no factual allegations that, if
taken as true, establish a contract defense of duress. 
The doctrine of economic duress may be applied to rescind a contract
“upon the doing of a wrongful act which is sufficiently coercive to cause a
reasonably prudent person faced with no reasonable alternative to succumb to
the perpetrator's pressure.” (Rich &
Whillock, Inc. v. Ashton Development, Inc. (1984) 157 Cal.App.3d 1154,
1158.) 
The FAC
alleges that the Purchase Agreement required Defendants to deliver
to Damco releases signed by Plaintiff Katab and the other holders of the SARs
and PIPs on or before April 1, 2020. On March 24, 2020, Defendant Kaplan came
into Plaintiff Katab’s office demanding that he signed the SAR and PIP
Releases. Plaintiff Katab told Defendant Kaplan he wanted to go through them in
more detail so he could understand them. Defendant Kaplan demanded that he sign
them, stating that other employees had already signed their releases and that
Damco was not going to change them. Defendant Kaplan said, “I am not going to
let you blow this deal for me and my family . . ..” Defendant Kaplan assured
Plaintiff Katab that “you will get everything you have coming to you – don’t
worry.” (FAC, ¶ 29.) Plaintiff Katab did not have the opportunity to consult
with his own counsel prior to signing the SAR and PIP Releases. Plaintiff Katab
did not sign the SAR and PIP Releases voluntarily. (Id., ¶ 30.)
The Court finds that there are no specific facts that would avoid the
defense pled. While the FAC alleges that Kaplan demanded Plaintiff sign the
releases, the FAC does not allege any facts to show that he had no reasonable
alternative, or wrongful conduct. As a result, the demurrer to the fifth cause of action for money had and received,
seventh cause of action for violation of California
Penal Code 496, eighth cause of action for violation of Labor Code—illegal
deduction of wages, and eleventh cause of action for conversion is SUSTAINED
with leave to amend.
 
b. First Cause of Action for Violation of
Labor Code— failure to pay earned bonuses, and Second Cause of Action for
Violation of Labor Code— failure to pay accrued vacation
Defendant demurs to the first cause of
action, arguing that Plaintiff alleges that Kaplan is personally liable for
Performance Team’s failure to pay earned bonuses under Labor Code section
558.1. (FAC ¶¶65-71). However, individual liability under Labor Code section
558.1 is limited to “any provision regulating minimum wages or hours and days of work
in any order of the Industrial Welfare Commission,” or Sections 203 (waiting
time penalties), 226 (wage statements), 226.7 (meal breaks), 1193.6 (overtime),
1194 (minimum wage/overtime), or 2802 (unreimbursed business expenses). (Lab. Code § 558.1.) With the
possible exception of section 203, none of these provisions relate to the
payment of bonuses. Even as to Labor Code section 203, Plaintiff’s pleading
fails. Labor Code section 203 requires the plaintiff to show that an employer
“willfully” failed to pay wages upon separation. 
As to the second cause of action, Defendant argues that Plaintiff
claims that he is entitled to recover unpaid vacation pay under sections 200,
202, 203, 206, 218.6 and 227.3. (FAC ¶85.) Of these, the only possible
violation for which Mr. Kaplan could be liable is Section 203. But as explained
above, Labor
Code section 203 requires the Plaintiff to show that an employer “willfully”
failed to pay wages upon separation. 
“Labor
Code section 203 empowers a court to award ‘an employee who is discharged or
who quits’ a penalty equal to up to 30 days’ worth of the employee’s wages
‘[i]f an employer willfully fails to pay’ the employee his full wages
immediately (if discharged) or within 72 hours (if he or she quits).
[Citations] It is called a waiting time penalty because it is awarded for
effectively making the employee wait for his or her final paycheck. A waiting
time penalty may be awarded when the final paycheck is for less than the
applicable wage—whether it be the minimum wage, a prevailing wage, or a living
wage. [Citation]” Diaz v. Grill Concepts
Services, Inc. (2018) 23 Cal.App.5th 859, 867.)
 
“Under
Labor Code section 203, a ‘willful failure to pay
wages…occurs when an employer intentionally fails to pay wages to an employee
when those wages are due.’ [Citations] The failure to pay is willful if the
employer ‘knows what [it] is doing [and] intends to do what [it] is doing’
[Citation], and does not also require proof that the employer acted with ‘a
deliberate evil purpose to defraud work[ers] of wages which the employer knows
to be due’ [Citation]” (Id. at 868.)
 
“Under
this definition, an employer’s failure to pay is not willful if that failure is
due to (1) uncertainty in the law [Citation], (2) representations by the taxing
authority that no further payment was required [Citation], or (3) the
employer’s ‘good faith mistaken belief that wages are not owed’ grounded
in a ‘‘good faith dispute,’’ which exists when the ‘employer presents a
defense, based in law or fact which, if successful, would preclude any recovery
on the part of the employee’ [Citations]. 
A good faith dispute can exist even if the employer's proffered defense
is ‘ultimately unsuccessful,’ but not if the defense is also ‘unsupported by
any evidence, [is] unreasonable, or [is] presented in bad faith.’ [Citation]” (Id.) 
 
Labor Code
§ 206.5 forbids an employer from requiring an employee to release a claim
for unpaid wages unless the wages claimed have actually been paid. 
However, a demurrer does not lie only as
to a portion of a cause of action.
If there are sufficient allegations to entitle plaintiff to relief, other allegations
cannot be challenged by general demurrer. (Daniels v. Select Portfolio
Servicing, Inc. (2016) 246 Cal.App.4th
1150, 1167; See also Sheehan v. San Francisco 49ers, Ltd.
(2009) 45 Cal.4th 992, 998 (stating that the sustaining of a demurrer may only
be upheld if the complaint fails to state a cause of action under any possible
legal theory).) The Court notes the only argument
Defendant provides for the basis of sustaining the first and second causes of
action relate to section 203. Defendant argues in a conclusory fashion that
although Plaintiff claims that he is entitled to recover unpaid vacation pay
under sections 200, 202, 203, 206, 218.6 and 227.3, the only possible violation
for which Mr. Kaplan could be liable is Section 203. Thus, the Court cannot
sustain the demurrer as to only a part of a cause of action.
The demurrer to the first and second causes of action
is therefore OVERRULED. 
               c. Fifth
Cause of Action for Money Had and Received 
 
“The action for money had and received is based upon an implied promise
which the law creates to restore money which the defendant in equity and good
conscience should not retain. The law implies the promise from the receipt of
the money to prevent unjust enrichment.” (Rotea v. Izuel (1939) 14
Cal.2d 605, 611.) A claim for money had and received is stated where a
plaintiff alleges that a defendant is “indebted to the plaintiff in a certain
sum ‘for money had and received by the defendant for the use of the plaintiff.’”
(Schultz v. Harney (1994) 27 Cal.App.4th 1611, 1623.) An action for money had and received based
on an implied contract or quasi-contract cannot be sustained where there exists
between the parties a valid express contract covering the same subject matter.
(Shvarts v. Budget Grp., Inc. (2000) 81 Cal.App.4th 1153, 1160.)
However, “[i]n an action on an express contract, a claim for money had and
received is permitted where there has been a total failure of consideration.” (Rutherford
Holdings, LLC v. Plaza Del Rey (2014) 223 Cal.App.4th 221, 230.)
 
Here, Plaintiff
alleges there is a valid express contract. Plaintiff has not alleged a total
failure of consideration. Plaintiff does not address this argument in the
opposition.
As such, the demurrer is SUSTAINED as to
the fifth cause of action for money had and received.
d. Sixth Cause of Action for Declaratory
and Injunctive Relief
Defendant also demurs to Plaintiff’s
claim for injunctive relief. Defendant argues that Plaintiff couches his sixth
cause of action as one for declaratory and injunctive relief presumably based
on Business & Professions Code section 17203 (FAC ¶ 121), which is part of
the unfair competition statute. Yet, Plaintiff fails to plead facts which, if
taken as true, show that Mr. Kaplan (rather than Performance Team) engaged in
any unlawful, unfair or fraudulent business acts or practices, which is fatal
to Plaintiff’s claim. 
Plaintiff
argues that Defendant only demurs to part of a cause of action. The Court
agrees. This cause of action also attempts to state a cause of action for
declaratory relief. As such, the demurrer is overruled on this basis.
e. Eighth Cause of Action for Violation of Labor Code—Illegal Deduction of Wages
Defendant argues,
among other things, that Plaintiff’s claim under Labor Code sections 221 and
224 for allegedly “unauthorized deductions from wages” fails because there
is no private right of action under those Labor Code sections. 
 
The court agrees. Unlike other sections of the Labor
Code which expressly allow employees to file suit to recover wages, there is
nothing to indicate in the text of either statute that there is a private right
of action.
As a result, the demurrer is
SUSTAINED without leave to amend as to the eighth cause of action for illegal
deduction of wages.
f. Eleventh
Cause of Action for Conversion
Defendant
argues that Plaintiff’s eleventh cause of action for conversion fails.
The
elements of a conversion claim are: (1) the plaintiff’s ownership or right to
possession of the property; (2) the defendant’s conversion by a wrongful act or
disposition of property rights; and (3) damages.  (Hodges
v. County of Placer (2019) 41 Cal.App.5th 537, 551.)  Conversion “is the wrongful exercise of
dominion over the property of another.” 
(Ibid.)  
“[A] mere contractual right of payment, without more,
will not suffice.”  (Farmers Ins. Exchange v. Zerin (1997) 53 Cal.App.4th 445,
452.)  This rule is premised on the
principle that the converted object at issue “must be a thing to which the
plaintiff has a right of ownership or possession—a right with which the defendant
has interfered by virtue of its own disposition of the property.”  (Voris
v. Lampert (2019) 7 Cal.5th 1141, 1151.) 

First, Defendant argues that
Plaintiff cannot state a claim for conversion because he fails to plead around
the bar of his Releases, and thus, he is unable to allege that he had an ownership
right to the money allegedly withheld at the time of the alleged conversion.

The
Court agrees. As alleged, Plaintiff’s economic duress defense to signing the
releases of the right to possession of the money that underlies the cause of
action for conversion failed to state a claim, and thus, the releases would bar
Plaintiff’s claim for conversion. As noted above, the demurrer is sustained
with leave to amend on this basis.
g.
Seventh Cause of Action under Penal Code section 496
Penal Code section 496 states, in relevant
part:
(a) Every
person who buys or receives any property that has been stolen or that has been
obtained in any manner constituting theft or extortion, knowing the property to
be so stolen or obtained, or who conceals, sells, withholds, or aids in
concealing, selling, or withholding any property from the owner, knowing the
property to be so stolen or obtained, shall be punished by imprisonment
(c) Any
person who has been injured by a violation of subdivision (a) . . . may bring
an action for three times the amount of actual damages, if any, sustained by
the plaintiff, costs of suit, and reasonable attorney’s fees.
(Penal Code § 496 (a), (c).) Compensation
based on labor is not property for the purposes of section 496, and a cause of
action for theft does not lie for failure by an employer to pay wages owed to
an employee. (Lacagnina v. Comprehend Sys. Inc. (2018) 25 Cal.App.5th
955, 970-72.) However, a cause of action for theft may lie where a business
partner obtains money intended for the plaintiff by false pretenses. (Switzer
v. Wood (2019) 35 Cal.App.5th 116, 126.)
Defendant contends a dispute over unpaid wages is not a dispute
over “stolen” property within the meaning of Penal Code section 496. (Lacagnina,
25 Cal. App. 5th at 970-971.)
In opposition, Plaintiff argues that through his
section 496 claim, Plaintiff seeks to recover proceeds from the Purchase
Transaction that were stolen from him. Indeed, in Siry Inv., L.P. v.
Farkhondehpour, the California Supreme Court made clear that plaintiff may
bring an action under section 496 for theft of the plaintiff’s proceeds in an
equity or partnership. (Siry Inv., L.P. v. Farkhondehpour (2022) 13 Cal.
5th 333.)
In
reply, Defendant contends that Siry also requires criminal intent.
The Court in Siry stated, “not all commercial or
consumer disputes alleging that a defendant obtained money or property through
fraud, misrepresentation, or breach of a contractual promise will amount to a
theft. To prove theft, a
plaintiff must establish criminal intent on the part of the defendant beyond "mere proof of nonperformance or
actual falsity." If misrepresentations or unfulfilled promises "are
made innocently or inadvertently, they can no more form the basis for a
prosecution for obtaining property by false pretenses than can an innocent
breach of contract." 
(Id., 362.)
The Court agrees that Plaintiff
has not sufficiently alleged Defendants committed theft. In fact, the FAC
alleges Plaintiff signed releases, which as Defendant argues, would negate an
inference that he knew the funds at issue were stolen. 
Moreover, Plaintiff alleges that
Defendant used fraud or deceit, but Plaintiff needs to allege fraud claims with
specificity, which he has not done. “Fraud must be
pleaded with specificity rather than with ‘“‘general and conclusory
allegations.’”’ (Small v. Fritz Companies, Inc. (2003) 30 Cal.4th 167,
184.) The specificity requirement means a plaintiff must allege facts showing
how, when, where, to whom, and by what means the representations were made,
and, in the case of a corporate defendant, the plaintiff must allege the names
of the persons who made the representations, their authority to speak on behalf
of the corporation, to whom they spoke, what they said or wrote, and when the
representation was made. (Lazar v. Superior Court (1996) 12 Cal.4th 631,
645; West v. JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. (2013) 214 Cal.App.4th 780,
793.) 
“The
facts essential to the statement of a cause of action in fraud or deceit based
on a promise made without any intention of performing it are: (1) a promise
made regarding a material fact without any intention of performing it; (2) the
existence of the intent at the time of making the promise; (3) the promise was
made with intent to deceive or with intent to induce the party to whom it was
made to enter into the transaction; (4) the promise was relied on by the party
to whom it was made; (5) the party making the promise did not perform; (6) the
party to whom the promise was made was injured. (Regus v. Schartkoff
(1957) 156 Cal.App.2d 382, 389.) 
As such, the demurrer to the
seventh cause of action is SUSTAINED with leave to amend.
h. All Causes of Action –
Uncertainty
The Court
overrules Defendant’s demurrer on the grounds of uncertainty. The claims are
not so uncertain to make the pleading unintelligible, and any uncertainty can
be addressed in discovery.
 
II.
Motion to Strike
 
Defendant also
moves to strike: (1) Plaintiff’s allegations regarding and request for
declaratory relief in the sixth cause of action; (2) Plaintiff’s allegations
regarding and requests for injunctive relief and restitution as alleged in his
Sixth Cause of Action; and (3) punitive damages.
 
a.    
Declaratory
Relief
Defendant moves to strike Plaintiff’s
allegations regarding and request for declaratory relief as alleged in his
Sixth Cause of Action.
To state a cause of action for
declaratory relief, the plaintiff must plead the following elements: (1) person
interested under a written instrument or a contract; or (2) a declaration of
his or her rights or duties (a) with respect to another or (b) in respect to,
in over or upon property; and (3) an actual controversy.  (Code Civ. Proc. § 1060; Ludgate Ins. Co. v. Lockheed Martin Corp. (2000) 82 Cal.App.4th
592, 605-06; Bennett v. Hibernia Bank
(1956) 47 Cal.2d 540, 549.)  “For
declaratory relief, the party must show it has either suffered or is about to
suffer an injury of ‘sufficient magnitude reasonably to assure that all of the
relevant facts and issues will be adequately presented.”  (Stonehouse
Homes v. City of Sierra Madre (2008) 167 Cal.App.4th 531, 542.)  A
controversy is not actual unless it invites a judgment that decrees, rather
than suggests, what the parties may do or not do.  (American
Meat Institute v. Leeman (2009) 180 Cal.App.4th 728, 741.) 
In a complaint seeking declaratory relief, an actual controversy must be
pleaded specifically and the facts of the respective claims concerning
underlying subject must be given.  (Ibid.) 

First, Defendant contends,
contrary to Plaintiff’s conclusory allegations, there is no “actual
controversy” between Plaintiff and Defendants regarding “the validity and
enforceability of the Restricted Covenants in the Employment Agreement and
Retention Agreement.” (FAC, ¶ 118; See, e.g., Comm. for Sound Water
& Land Dev. v. City of Seaside (2022) 79 Cal.App.5th 389, 408
(“[D]eclaratory relief is appropriate only where there is an actual
controversy, not simply an abstract or academic dispute.”).) Instead, the FAC simply
alleges that Plaintiff disputes that those Restrictive Covenants are valid. But
there are no allegations in the FAC even tending to suggest that Defendant
sought to enforce the restrictive covenants against Plaintiff, or that
Plaintiff seeks to leave his current employment for other employment that
“competes” with PTL or to solicit or hire PTL’s current employees such that there
is a “concrete actuality” that PTL would seek to enforce the Restrictive
Covenants against him. (See Hagan v. Fairfield, 238 Cal.App.2d 197, 202
(1965).) In short,
Defendant argues, Plaintiff seeks “an advisory opinion upon a ... hypothetical
state of facts”—which he cannot do. (Newland v. Kizer, 209
Cal.App.3d 647, 657 (1989) (int. quot. marks omitted).)
In opposition, Plaintiff argues that the
FAC explicitly states the following: 
·       
Defendants included unlawful restrictive
covenants in Plaintiff’s Employment and Retention Agreements. (FAC at ¶¶
50-51.)
·       
After Plaintiff notified Defendants of
his resignation, Defendants repeatedly attempted to make the payment of
Plaintiff’s earned wages, including his bonuses, contingent on Plaintiff
signing release agreements that required him to comply with these unlawful
restrictive covenants. (Id. at ¶¶ 55, 57, 62.)
·       
On January 14, 2021, Kaplan sent a letter
to Plaintiff which stated that Defendants were retaining the right “to enforce”
Plaintiff’s Employment and Retention Agreements “consistent with their terms”
and intended to provide copies of these documents to Plaintiff’s new employer,
TwinMed. (Id. at ¶¶ 59, 60, Exh. 5.)
·       
On January 29, 2021, counsel for
Plaintiff sent a letter to Defendants objecting to Kaplan’s January 14, 2021
letter because, among other things, it sought to impose the improper
restrictive covenants on Plaintiff in violation of Section 16600 of the California
Business & Professions Code. (Id. at ¶ 61, Exh. 6.)
·       
An actual controversy has arisen and now
exists between Plaintiff and Defendants regarding Plaintiff rights and
Defendants’ duties under the Employment Agreement and Retention Agreement. (Id.
at ¶ 117.)
·       
The Employment Agreement and Retention
Agreement are inextricably linked to this dispute in that Plaintiff substantial
and unpaid bonuses and other compensation would be forfeited if Plaintiff is
found to have breached the Employment or Retention Agreements by violating the
restrictive covenants therein. Because the bonuses were due within 72 hours of
the last day of his employment on January 15, 2021, Plaintiff has an immediate
need for relief. (Id. at ¶ 124.)
Thus, Plaintiff argues, contrary to Defendants’
assertions, Plaintiff has sufficiently alleged that Defendants have sought to
enforce the restrictive covenants at issue against Plaintiff and that an
“actual controversy” exists as to Plaintiff’s legal rights and duties under the
restrictive covenants. 
In reply, Defendant contends that
none of the allegations that Plaintiff cites reflect a “significant
possibility of future harm” sufficient to sustain his requests for declaratory
relief. Moreover, the “Nonsolicitation of Company Personnel” provision in
Plaintiff’s Employment Agreement expired on January 15, 2023. (See
FAC, ¶ 49 (Plaintiff’s last date worked was January 15, 2021); FAC, Exh. 1,
§ 11(a) (covenant expires 24 months after separation of employment).)  Thus, an expired non-solicitation provision
could not give right to a very significant possibility of future harm, and
declaratory relief cannot be used to redress past wrongs. (In
re Tobacco Cases II, 240 Cal.App.4th 779, 805 (2015).)
Moreover, Plaintiff does
not and cannot point to any allegations in the FAC that Defendants intend
to or have ever sought to enforce any of the Restrictive Covenants
against him. Instead, he alleges only that Defendants “retain[ed] the
right ‘to enforce’” his Employment and Retention Agreements and thus, presumably,
the Restrictive Covenants therein. (FAC, ¶¶ 59-60.)
The Court agrees that Plaintiff’s
allegations do not show Plaintiff has
either suffered or is about to suffer an injury of sufficient magnitude
reasonably to assure that all of the relevant facts and issues will be
adequately presented as the FAC does not allege that Defendants intended to
enforce the restrictive covenants, and because the provision which contained
the restrictive covenants have expired. 
As such the motion to strike is GRANTED with
leave to amend as to the allegations
regarding and request for declaratory relief.
b.     
 Injunctive Relief
Defendant also argues that
injunctive relief is improper because any threatened injury must be “concrete
and particularized” and “actual or imminent, not conjectural or hypothetical.”
(Cornelius v.
L.A. Cnty. Etc. Auth., 49 Cal.App.4th 1761, 1768-69 (1996).) Defendant
contends that Plaintiff’s FAC does not plead any threatened future injury.
Instead, as discussed at length above with respect to Plaintiff’s declaratory relief
allegations, his injunctive relief request is based entirely on a hypothetical
situation where he is “found to have breached” his agreements with PTL “by
violating the Restrictive Covenants.” (FAC, ¶ 124.)
Plaintiff argues, as stated above, this argument
ignores the fact that Defendants have already threatened to enforce the
restrictive covenants at issue against Plaintiff. (Id. at ¶¶ 59, 60, Exh. 5.)
The fact Defendants have not yet actually done what they threatened to do does
not make injunctive relief improper or “hypothetical.” 
However, in reply, Defendant points out that the FAC
alleges only that Defendants “retain[ed] the right ‘to
enforce’” Plaintiff’s Employment and Retention Agreements and thus, presumably,
the Restrictive Covenants therein. (FAC, ¶¶ 59-60.) Moreover, as discussed
above, it appears the provision containing the restrictive covenants has now
expired. As such, without allegations showing a threatened future harm,
injunctive relief would not be appropriate. 
(O'Toole v. Superior Court
(2006) 140 Cal.App.4th 488, 513 (“The purpose of injunctive relief is to
prevent future or threatened harm.”).)  
Based on the foregoing, Defendant’s motion to strike
allegations regarding and
requests for injunctive relief is GRANTED with leave to amend.
 
c.     
Punitive
Damages
Defendant PTL also moves to strike
the prayer for punitive damages arguing that the FAC fails to
comply with the strict pleading requirements of Civil Code section 3294 and
fails to identify any oppressive, malicious or fraudulent conduct by any
person—much less by a person while acting as an officer, director, or managing
agent of PTL. Instead, PTL contends, Plaintiff’s purported request for punitive damages
rests on nothing but bare legal conclusions. 
Civil Code section 3294 authorizes
the recovery of punitive damages in non-contract cases. . . .”  (Civ. Code § 3294(a).)  To state a claim
for punitive damages under Civil Code section 3294, a plaintiff must allege
specific facts showing that the defendant has been guilty of malice, oppression
or fraud. (Smith v. Superior Court (1992) 10 Cal. App. 4th 1033, 1042.)
The basis for punitive damages must be pled with specificity; conclusory
allegations devoid of any factual assertions are insufficient. (Id.) A motion
to strike may lie where the facts alleged, if proven, would not support a
finding that the defendant acted with malice, fraud or oppression. (Turman
v. Turning Point of Central California (2010) 191 Cal. App. 4th 53, 63.) 
“Malice” is defined in
section 3294(c)(1) as “conduct which is intended by the defendant to cause
injury” or “despicable conduct which is carried on by the defendant with a
willful and conscious disregard of the rights or safety of others.”
“Oppression” is defined in section 3294(c)(2) as “despicable conduct subjecting
a person to cruel and unjust hardship in conscious disregard of that person’s
rights.” The term “despicable” has been defined in the case law as actions that are “base,”
“vile,” or “contemptible.” (See, e.g., Shade Foods, Inc. v. Innovative Products
Sales & Marketing, Inc. (2000) 78 Cal. App. 4th 847, 891.) 
To prove that a
defendant acted with “willful and conscious disregard of the rights or safety
of others,” it is not enough to prove negligence, gross negligence or even
recklessness. (Dawes v. Superior Court (1980) 111 Cal. App. 3d 82, 87.)
Rather, a plaintiff must allege facts demonstrating that “the defendant acted
in such an outrageous and reprehensible manner that the jury could infer that
he [or she] knowingly disregarded the substantial certainty of injury to
others.” (Id. at 90). Further, the allegations must be sufficient for a
reasonable jury to conclude that Defendant’s conduct was “despicable” defined
as “base, vile or contemptible.” (College Hospital Inc. v. Superior Court
(1994) 8 Cal. 4th 704, 725.)
“An employer shall not be liable for [punitive] damages ..., based upon
acts of an employee of the employer, unless the employer had advance knowledge
of the unfitness of the employee and employed him or her with a conscious
disregard of the rights or safety of others or authorized or ratified the
wrongful conduct.... With respect to a corporate employer, the advance
knowledge and conscious disregard, authorization, [or] ratification ... must be
on the part of an officer, director, or managing agent of the corporation.” (Civil
Code § 3294(b).) The California Supreme Court interpreted the “latter statement
as requiring the officer, director, or managing agent to be someone
who ‘exercise[s] substantial discretionary authority over decisions that
ultimately determine corporate policy.’” (White v. Ultramar, Inc. (1999)
21 Cal.4th 563, 577.) 
Upon review of the parties’ motion
papers, the Court finds the motion to strike the prayer for punitive damages is
also moot. As Defendant states, it is not clear what causes of action
Plaintiff’s punitive damages relate to. In opposition, Plaintiff concedes he is
not seeking punitive damages with respect his Labor Code and breach of contract
claims, as these are contract-based claims, and punitive damages are not
available under such claims. (See Civ. Code § 3294(a).) Thus, because the
demurrer is sustained as to the causes of action for money had and received; violation of California Penal Code 496, and
conversion, the motion to strike is moot.
Conclusion
 
Based
on the foregoing, Defendant Kaplan’s demurrer to the FAC is SUSTAINED in part
and OVERRULED in part. The demurrer is sustained with 30 days leave to amend as
to the fifth, seventh, and eleventh causes of action.  The eighth cause of action for illegal
deduction of wages is sustained without leave to amend. The demurrer is
overruled as to the first and second causes of action. 
 
Defendant’s
motion to strike is DENIED as MOOT in part and GRANTED in part. The motion to
strike is moot as to the claim for punitive damages, and granted with 30 days
leave to amend as to the allegations and request for declaratory and injunctive
relief.
 
Moving party is
ordered to give notice.
 
 