  Case Number:  22STCV28338    Hearing Date:   October 5, 2023    Dept:  O Tentative Ruling
 
MOTION TO COMPEL ARBITRATION
OF PLAINTIFF’S CLAIMS ON AN INDIVIDUAL BASIS is GRANTED. 
 
Background
 
This is a PAGA action. 
 
On August 31, 2022, Plaintiff filed suit. 
 
On January 4, 2023, a notice of related case was filed.[1]

 
On March 28, 2023, Defendant filed the instant motion. 
 
On September 18, 2023, the parties filed a stipulation to
continue the hearing. 
 
On September 27, 2023, Plaintiff filed an opposition. 
 
On September 28, 2023, Defendant filed its Reply. 
 
Legal
Standard
 
The governing law is both federal and state in character. 
 
The FAA applies to contracts that involve interstate commerce.
(9 U.S.C. §§ 1, 2.)
Section 2 of the FAA provides in relevant part: “A written
provision in . . . a contract . . . to settle by
arbitration a controversy thereafter arising out of such contract or
transaction . . . shall be valid, irrevocable, and enforceable, save upon such
grounds as exist at law or in equity for the revocation of any contract.”  (9 U.S.C. § 2.)  Under the FAA, there is a strong policy
favoring arbitration.  (Moses H.
Cone Memorial Hospital v. Mercury Construction (1983) 460 U.S. 1, 24; Engalla
v. Permanente Medical Group, Inc. (1997) 15 Cal.4th 951,
971–972.)  “The overarching purpose of
the FAA is to ensure the enforcement of arbitration agreements according to
their terms . . . .”  (AT&T
Mobility LLC v. Concepcion (2011) 563 U.S. 333, 344 (Concepcion).)  
 
On a motion to compel arbitration, a trial court is posed with
determining two questions: (1) whether an enforceable arbitration
agreement exists between the parties and (2) whether the claims are covered
within the scope of the agreement.  (Omar
v. Ralphs Grocery Co. (2004) 118 Cal.App.4th 955, 961.) The party seeking arbitration bears
the burden of proving the existence of an arbitration agreement, and the party
opposing arbitration any defense, such as unconscionability and waiver.  (Pinnacle Museum Tower Assn. v. Pinnacle
Market Development (US), LLC (2012) 55 Cal.4th 223, 236 (Pinnacle);
see St. Agnes Medical Center v. PacifiCare of California (2003)
31 Cal.4th 1187, 1195.)   
 
In an answer in the affirmative as to both “leaves no room
for the exercise of discretion by a [] court, but instead mandates that []
court[] shall direct the parties to proceed to
arbitration on issues as to which an arbitration agreement has been signed.” (Dean Witter Reynolds, Inc. v.
Byrd (1985) 470 U.S. 213, 213.) 
 
Discussion
 
Defendant moves to compel arbitration because Plaintiff
entered into a Mutual Arbitration Agreement (the “Agreement”) with Defendant,
and those agreements are now the subject of the claims set forth in Plaintiffs’
Complaint. 
 
The Agreement, which is governed by the Federal Arbitration
Act (Zuniga Decl., Ex. A., p. 9 of 14 of PDF) states in pertinent part: 
 
This Arbitration Agreement is entered
into between the employee and Consolidated Precision Products, its divisions,
affiliates, subsidiaries and each of its or their respective  officers, directors, employees, representatives…
(collectively ‘the Company’)… The parties hereby mutually waive their right to
a jury or court trial of any and all Covered  Claim and mutually waive their right to
maintain or participate in any Class Action… in  any forum… Examples of the type of disputes
or claims under the MAP include, but are not limited  to… wage or overtime claims or other claims
under any other state or local wage laws, 
and/or any other legal or equitable claims and causes or action recognized
by local, state  or federal law or
regulations… (Motion p. 1.) 
 
Effectively, based off the language of the Arbitration
Agreement, Plaintiff waived his right to a class action suit. And as the FAA
applies, the law is well-settled that arbitration agreements limiting an
employee to pursuing claims individually are enforceable. (See Epic Sys.
Corp. v. Lewis (2018) 138 S. Ct. 1612, 1619.) Thus, as the agreement is not
susceptible to an interpretation that the claims are not covered by
arbitration, the order to arbitrate should not be denied. (AT&T Techs v.
Communs. Workers of Am. (2011) 106 S.Ct. 1415, 1419.) 
 
In opposition, Plaintiff raises the following rebuttals: 
 
-       
The Court Must Deny The Motion To Compel Arbitration In
Relation To Plaintiff’s Business And Professions Code Section 17200 Claims
Because The Agreement Has An Express Carve Out For Injunctive And Equitable
Claims Related To Claims For Unfair Competition
-       
The Arbitration Agreement is Unconscionable and
Unenforceable  
 
1.    
Whether The Agreement Exempts Injunctive and
Equitable Relief Claims Based On Unfair Competition 
 
In section 5 of the agreement, titled “Claims Not Covered
Under [Mutual Arbitration Agreement],” the agreement states that “MAP does not
cover … a claim by either party for injunctive or other equitable relief related
to claims for unfair competition AND the use or unauthorized
disclosure of trade secrets or confidential information,…, for which either
party may seek and obtain relief from a court of competent jurisdiction without
waiving the obligation under this Agreement to otherwise pursue such claims by
way of mediation, and if necessary, arbitration…” (Ex. A, emphasis added and
capitalization added.) 
 
But this argument is unpersuasive because the claims are not
related to unfair competition. While the complaint may assert one cause of
action (the seventh COA) for unfair business practice, the allegations forming
the COA are predicated upon Labor Code violations, similar to the other six
COAs. For example, the seventh COA is based upon unfair conduct that includes: 
 
[F]ailure to pay overtime wages
for all overtime hours worked; failure to authorize or permit all
legally required and/or compliant meal periods or pay meal period
premium wages; failure to authorize or permit all legally required
and/or compliant rest periods or pay rest period premium wages; failure
to timely pay wages during employment; failure to provide accurate wage
and hour statements; and failure to timely pay all wages due upon
separation of employment. Due to their unfair and unlawful business practices
in violation of the Labor Code. 
 
(Complaint p. 27, emphasis added.)

 
Thus, applying the principles of
contract law (opp. p. 1, header 1), which Plaintiff asks the cour to do, such principles
include taking the contract as a whole, “so as to give effect to every
part, if reasonably practicable, each clause helping to interpret the other.” (Vaughn v. Tesla, Inc. (2023) 87 Cal.App.5th 208, 219.), internal citation
omitted.) With that in mind, whether under state or federal law, “any
ambiguities or doubts about the scope of an arbitration agreement must
be resolved in favor of arbitration.” (Ericksen, Arbuthnot, McCarthy,
Kearney & Walsh, Inc. v. 100 Oak Street (1983) 35 Cal.3d 312, 323,
emphasis added.)
 
Here, taking the contract as a
whole, it is solely predicated upon Labor Code violations, which falls
under the “Claims Covered.” 
 
Additionally, as raised by
Defendant in Reply, Plaintiff does not read the provision in its entirety. The
plain text signals that only claims for unfair competition “and” (i.e.,
predicated on) the use or unauthorized disclosure of trade secrets or confidential
information is exempt. (Reply p. 2:21-24.) The ordinary and usual usage of
‘and’ is as a conjunctive, meaning ‘“an additional thing,”’ ‘also’ or ‘plus.’”
(Reply p. 3, citing In re C.H., 53 Cal.4th 94, 101 (2011). Accordingly,
read as a conjunctive, a UCL claim would only be excluded from
arbitration if it was also brought forth with, also, or plus the use or
unauthorized disclosure of trade secrets or confidential information. Here,
however, there is no such claim, meaning the UCL claim is not excluded from
arbitration.[2]
(See also Reply p. 3 [discussing the punctuation of the ‘Exemption Clause’
further supports the interpretation].)
 
Therefore, abiding the basic canon
that words of a contract are to be understood in their ordinary and popular
sense (Civil Code section 1644), here, all the claims fall under
arbitration.[3]

 
2.    
Unconscionability 
 
The California Supreme Court has stated the following
regarding the general principles of unconscionability. 
 
 A contract is unconscionable if one of the
parties lacked a meaningful choice in deciding whether to agree and the
contract contains terms that are unreasonably favorable to the other party.
Under this standard, the unconscionability doctrine has both a procedural and a
substantive element. The procedural element addresses the circumstances of
contract negotiation and formation, focusing on oppression or surprise due to
unequal bargaining power. Substantive unconscionability pertains to the fairness
of an agreement's actual terms and to assessments of whether they are overly
harsh or one-sided. Both procedural and substantive unconscionability must be
shown for the defense to be established, but they need not be present in the
same degree. Instead, they are evaluated on ‘a sliding scale.’ [T]he
more substantively oppressive the contract term, the less evidence of
procedural unconscionability is required to conclude that the term is
unenforceable. Conversely, the more deceptive or coercive the bargaining
tactics employed, the less substantive unfairness is required … The ultimate
issue in every case is whether the terms of the contract are sufficiently
unfair, in view of all relevant circumstances, that a court should withhold
enforcement.
 
 
(OTO, L.L.C. v. Kho (2019) 8
Cal.5th 111, 125-126, internal citations omitted, emphasis added.)
 
a.    
Procedural unconscionability 
 
Plaintiff’s only argument as to
procedural unconscionability is that he had to sign the agreement.  (Opp. p. 9.)
 
But the inquiry
does not end there. “The
pertinent question, then, is whether circumstances of the contract's formation
created such oppression or surprise that closer scrutiny of its overall
fairness is required. Oppression occurs where a
contract involves lack of negotiation and meaningful choice, surprise where the allegedly unconscionable
provision is hidden within a prolix printed form.” (Ibid, internal
citations omitted, italics original). To determine the presence of such
circumstances, there are five considerations to examine: “(1) the amount of
time the party is given to consider the proposed contract; (2) the amount
and type of pressure exerted on the party to sign the proposed contract; (3)
the length of the proposed contract and the length and complexity of the
challenged provision; (4) the education and experience of the party; and (5)
whether the party's review of the proposed contract was aided by an
attorney.” (Id. at pp. 126-128.) 
 
Here, however, Plaintiff has provided no facts about the circumstances
surrounding the formation and negotiations of the Arbitration Agreement. “Absent any
evidence, we cannot just assume there was procedural unconscionability.” (Performance
Team Freight Systems, Inc. v. Aleman (2015) 241 Cal.App.4th 1233, 1248.)
Thus, absent evidence and a thorough analysis, the argument is waived. (Ables v. Ghazale
Brothers, Inc. (2022) 74 Cal.App.5th 823, 828 [“The arguments in Ables's brief are undeveloped, lack sufficient
citations to authority and to the record, and fail to allege any trial court
error. Consequently, we consider them forfeited. [Citations omitted]. It was
Ables's burden, not ours, to make arguments from legal authority….”].)
 
b.    
Substantive unconscionability 
 
Having established that Plaintiff has not demonstrated
procedural unconscionability, then the Arbitration Agreement cannot be deemed unconscionable because
a contract to arbitrate is unenforceable under the doctrine of
unconscionability when there is both a procedural and substantive
element of unconscionability. (See Armendariz v. Foundation Health
Psychare Services, Inc. (2000) 24 Caal.4th 83, 114 [“The prevailing view is
that [procedural and substantive unconscionability] must both be present
in order for a court to exercise its discretion to refuse to enforce a contract
or clause under the doctrine of unconscionability”], emphasis added.) 
 
Therefore, the agreement is not
unconscionable; thus, it is enforceable. 
 
Conclusion
 
Based on the foregoing, the motion
is granted, and the matter is stayed pending arbitration (the case is not
dismissed). 
 
 
 


