 Case Number:  23PSCV00925    Hearing Date:   October 5, 2023    Dept:  O Tentative Ruling
 
(1)   DEFENDANT GENERAL MOTORS LLC’S
DEMURRER TO PLAINTIFF’S COMPLAINT is SUSTAINED with leave to amend.

(2)   MOTION TO STRIKE PUNITIVE DAMAGES FROM
PLAINTIFF’S COMPLAINT is MOOT. 
 
Background
 
This is a
lemon law case. Plaintiff alleges that vehicle purchased (a Chevrolet
Silverado) was equipped with a defective Hydra-Matic 8L90 transmission. 
 
On March 30,
2023, Plaintiff HILARIO SALVADOR GARCIA filed suit against Defendant General
Motors LLC (Defendant or GM) for the following causes of action (COA): 1.     Violation Of Song-Beverly Act - Breach
Of Express Warranty 2.     Violation Of Song-Beverly Act - Breach
Of Implied Warranty 3.     Violation Of The Song Beverly Act
Section 1793.2 4.     Fraud – Fraudulent Inducement –
Concealment
 
On May 1,
2023, Defendant filed a demurrer (as to 4th COA) with a motion to
strike (MTS).
 
On July 31,
2023, Plaintiff filed a FAC for the same COAs, which rendered the 5/1/23
demurrer and MTS moot. 
 
On August 30,
2023, Defendant filed the instant demurrer and MTS. 
 
On September
21, 2023, Plaintiff filed its opposition. 
 
On September
28, 2023, Defendant filed its Reply. 
 
 
Legal
Standard
 
A demurrer
may be asserted on various grounds, one being that the pleading does not state
facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action. (See Demurrer p. 2, Code of
Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subd. (e).) Accordingly, as a demurrer tests the
sufficiency of the pleading, the grounds for the demurrer must appear on the
face of the pleading or from judicially noticeable matters. (CCP
§430.30(a); Blank v. Kirwan, (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311, 318.) The face of the pleading includes attachments and
incorporations by reference (Frantz v. Blackwell, (1987) 189 Cal.App.3d
91, 94); it does not include inadmissible hearsay. (Day v. Sharp,
(1975) 50 Cal.App.3d 904, 914.)
 
Discussion 
 
Defendant
demurs to the 4th COA for Fraud-Fraudulent Inducement-Concealment on
the grounds that it (i) fails to state facts relevant to the elements of the
claim and (ii) fails to allege a transactional relationship giving rise to a
duty to disclose.[1]
 
The CLRA protects individuals engaging in consumer
transactions.  The CLRA prohibits “unfair methods of competition and
unfair or deceptive acts or practices undertaken by any person in a transaction
intended to result or which results in the sale or lease of goods or services
to any consumer.”  (Civ. Code, § 1770, subd. (a).)  The CLRA sets
forth twenty-seven (27) different “unfair or deceptive acts or practices” that
may constitute a violation of the statute.  (Ibid.)  In
assessing whether the representations made in the course of the consumer
transaction violate the CLRA, courts use the reasonable consumer standard—i.e.,
whether a reasonable consumer would be misled by the representation.  (Consumer
Advocates v. Echostar Satellite Corp. (2003) 113 Cal.App.4th 1351,
1360.)  To the extent an alleged violation is based on the defendant’s
omission of a material fact, “to be actionable the omission must be contrary
to a representation actually made by the defendant, or an omission of a
fact the defendant was obliged to disclose.”  (Daugherty v.
American Honda Motor Co., Inc. (2006) 144 Cal.App.4th 824, 835, emphasis
added.)  A cause of action under the CLRA “must be stated with
reasonable particularity, which is a more lenient pleading standard than is
applied to common law fraud claims.”  (Gutierrez v. Carmax Auto
Superstore California (2018) 19 Cal.App.5th 1234, 1261.) 
 
“[T]he elements of a cause of
action for fraud based on concealment are: ‘“(1) the defendant must have
concealed or suppressed a material fact, (2) the defendant must have been under
a duty to disclose the fact to the plaintiff, (3) the defendant must have
intentionally concealed or suppressed the fact with the intent to defraud the
plaintiff, (4) the plaintiff must have been unaware of the fact and would not
have acted as he did if he had known of the concealed or suppressed fact, and
(5) as a result of the concealment or suppression of the fact, the plaintiff
must have sustained damage.”’” (Jones v. ConocoPhillips Co. (2011) 198
Cal. App. 4th 1187, 1198, quoting Kaldenbach v. Mutual of Omaha Life Ins. Co.
(2009) 178 Cal.App.4th 830, 850.) “Fraud is never presumed.” (Mason
v. Drug Inc. (1939) 31 Cal.App.2d 697, 703.) Moreover, when pleading fraud
against a corporation, a plaintiff is “to allege the names of the persons
who made the allegedly fraudulent representations, their authority to speak, to
whom they spoke, what they said or wrote, and when it was said or written.”
(Demurrer p. 8, quoting Tarmann v. State Farm Mut. Auto Ins. Co. (1991)
2 Cal.App.4th 153, 157; see also Mason, supra, 31 Cal.App.2d at p. 703
[“[I]f the plaintiff would charge the defendant corporation with making
fraudulent misrepresentations it was necessary for him to allege the name of
the person who spoke, their authority to speak, to whom they spoke, what they
said or wrote, and when it was said or written.”].) That said, authorized dealerships
are agents of the manufacturer for purposes consumer claims. (See Dhital v.
Nissan North America, Inc. (2022) 84 Cal.App.5th 828;[2]
see also Ibrahim v. Ford Motor Co. (1989) 214 Cal.App.3d 878, 889 (1989)
(Section 1793.2 of the Act “treat[s] the manufacturer and its
‘representative[s] in this state’ (the term used in subdivision (d)) or
‘agents’ (the term used in subdivision (e)) as a single entity…’”) Accordingly,
statements made by the dealership during the purchase process can be deemed to
be statements made by the corporation.  
The 4th
COA alleges as follows:
 
GENERAL MOTORS LLC intentionally concealed the design defect found in
the 8L90 and 8L45 transmissions because of the common architecture of the
transmission that causes “harsh shifts” in lower gears, which can feel like
jerking, lurching, and/or hesitations (¶129) . .  . Defendant was the only party with knowledge
of the Transmission Defect because that knowledge came from internal reports
such as pre-release testing data, customer complaints made directly to
Defendant, and technical service bulletins. None of this information was
available to the public, nor did Defendant publicly or privately disclose any
of the information to Plaintiff. GENERAL MOTORS LLC had exclusive knowledge of
the defect as described in detail hereinabove (¶133) . . . Upon information and
belief, Defendant acquired its knowledge of the Transmission Defect and its
potential consequences prior to Plaintiff acquiring the Subject Vehicle,
through sources not available to the consumer such as Plaintiff, including but
not limited to pre-production testing, early consumer complaints about the Transmission
Defect made directly to Defendant and its network of dealers, aggregate
warranty data compiled from Defendant’s network of dealers, testing conducted
by Defendant in response to these complaints, as well as warranty repair and
part replacements data received by Defendant from Defendant’s network of
dealers, amongst other sources of internal information (¶133d). 
As a prefatory matter, Plaintiff’s FAC is pled improperly. 

A civil plaintiff may, for
the sake of convenience, incorporate by reference previous portions of the
pleading for informational purposes only. (Cal-West Nat. Bank v. Superior
Court (1986) 185 Cal. App. 3d 96, 101.) 
Here, a review of the causes
of action reveals that Plaintiffs are not incorporating facts for informational
purposes; instead, they are attempting to plead the essential elements of their
cause of action by incorporating unidentified allegations from other portions
of their pleadings. Specifically, Plaintiffs’ 4th COA improperly
incorporates 126 allegations and 24 pages worth of allegations. This
imposes the burden on the court and Defendant to search through the pleadings
in order to identify critical aspects of the claims and to determine whether
the Plaintiff has pled the essential facts necessary to constitute the causes
of action.[3]
With that, if the allegations pertinent to the fraud COA are not found within
paragraphs 127 to 147, the allegation(s) will not be addressed to test the
sufficiency of the pleading.[4]
This failure to plead essential facts inherently ties into Defendants’ basis
for demurrer which is that Plaintiffs fail to plead sufficient facts. Therefore,
one reason the court gives leave to amend is to allow for Plaintiff to add the
essential allegations to the fraud COA within the 4th COA, not
incorporate the relevant allegations by reference. 
Turning to the merits, Defendant
argues that “Plaintiff failed to allege (i) the identity of the individuals at
GM who purportedly concealed material facts or made untrue representations
about his Silverado (ii) their authority to speak and act on behalf of GM,
(iii) GM’s knowledge about alleged defects in Plaintiff’s Silverado at the time
of purchase, (iv) any interactions with GM before or during the purchase of the
Silverado, or (v) GM’s intent to induce reliance by Plaintiff to purchase the
specific Silverado at issue.” (Demurrer p. 8.) 
In opposition, Plaintiffs
maintain otherwise. 
Here, the court agrees with Defendant that Plaintiff has failed to
plead sufficient facts but for a different reason: it is unclear what transmission is defective. The vehicle
Plaintiff purchased has an 8L90 transmission, but the FAC is also largely dedicated to an 8L45
transmission. (See e.g., FAC ¶12 [“Under this functional equivalent,
GENERAL MOTORS LLC had a duty to disclose the defective and unrepairable
Hydra-Matic 8L45/8L90 transmission system but chose to intentionally conceal
and omit this information in order to fraudulently induce Plaintiff’s purchase
of the Subject Vehicle.”].)[5]
And to the extent that Plaintiff is alleging that the 8L90 transmission was defective
based upon defects of the 8L45 transmission, the defects with the 8L45 defects
were publicly available. (See FAC ¶8 [“While publicly available
information existed regarding the earlier versions of the Hydra-Matic
transmissions through the publication of Service Bulletins inapplicable, and
thus, unrelated to vehicles of the same year, make, and model as the Subject
Vehicle.”], emphasis added.) 
Effectively,
it appears that Plaintiff is presuming that that 8L90 is defective based
upon other similar transmissions, but the FAC does not equivocally
allege that the National Highway Transportation and Safety Administration
(“NHTSA”), complaints, consumer field reports, internal reports, testing data,
and the issuance of technical service bulletins were directed solely to the
8L90 defect, which forms the basis for Plaintiff’s fraud COA.  
 
Thus, absent
clarity as to what transmission defect is at issue and facts to allege that GM knew
of the transmission defect but withheld that material information, the
fraud COA fails.[6]
At this juncture, the court need not address the other elements and other
arguments. 
 
For that
reason, the court SUSTAINS the demurrer with leave to amend. With that, the
motion to strike punitive damages in relation to GM’s purported concealment of
defect(s) is moot. 
 
 
 
Conclusion
 
Based on the
foregoing, the demurrer as to the 4th COA for fraud/concealment is
sustained with leave to amend the motion to strike is moot. 


