 Case Number:  22VECV01056    Hearing Date:   October 24, 2023    Dept:  T SANCHEZ
V GM 22VECV01056
Tentative
ruling: Plaintiff's motion to compel further responses to RFP set 1-Denied for
failure to meet and confer in good faith.
As
a preliminary matter, the only instance of meet and confer was a single letter
sent by plaintiff's counsel and a single letter sent from defense counsel, both
in June 2023. 
Plaintiff
counsel's declaration states as follows:
On
June 8, 2023, Defendant responded to our meet and confer letter, and stated its
intent to not provide us with any of the additional substantive documents in
our request. Attached as Exhibit 8 is a true and correct copy of Defendant’s
response to Plaintiff’s Meet and Confer, which was served electronically on
June 8, 2023.
However,
that is contradicted by defense counsel's letter of June 8, 2023 which states
as follows:
GM
offers Plaintiff to participate in an informal discovery conference, if this
court will permit such a discovery tool in order to come to a resolution of any
remaining disputes. Please advise upon receipt of this letter if you continue
to have concerns with GM’s responses and whether this letter failed to address
any discovery responses in dispute. I want to make sure each of the discovery
requests in dispute have been addressed.
Hence,
GM's position that there was inadequate meet and confer is correct.
Failure
to meet and confer in good faith is a discovery abuse which subjects the
offending party to sanctions, if it prevails on the motion.
Oddly,
the motion to compel was filed in August 2023 even though the discovery
responses were served on May 31, 2023. 
Other than the cursory meet and confer letter, with the response
indicating a willingness to continue talking, nothing was done for another 2
months before the motion was scheduled for a date after the trial date.
With
the agreement of the parties and on suggestion of the court, the court agreed
to continue the trial date so that this matter may be resolved but even so,
there has been no further meet and confer in response to the motion or
opposition to the motion.  Notably,
moving party did not seek by ex parte application to advance the hearing on the
motion.
There
must be some consequence for delay in addressing problems with defense
responses to discovery.  Waiting months
to get the matter resolved after a single letter is not the way to do it.
The
court denies the motion because of a failure of moving party to meet and confer
in good faith.  CCP 2023.010(i);  2023.020;  2023.030.
Finally, it is irrelevant to the court what is going
on in hundreds of other cases with GM. 
It is only concerned at this time with this case and in this case, the
plaintiff did not act in good faith in its meet and confer.  The court rejects the attempt to make this,
or any case, a referendum on GM's or any party's conduct, in general.
Clerk of the court to give
notice.  It is so ordered.