 Case Number:  23VECV00479    Hearing Date:   October 24, 2023    Dept:  T CARTER V 7-ELEVEN
23VECV00479
[TENTATIVE] ORDER:  Defendant Action Patrol Services Inc.’s
Motion to Vacate Default Judgment, Recall and Quash the Writ of Possession is
MOOT.  To the extent the motion seeks to
vacate Entry of Default, the Motion is GRANTED. 
Defendant Action Patrol Services Inc.’s Proposed Answer submitted with
the Motion is ordered to be filed forthwith. 

Plaintiff Starletta Carter’s
request for attorneys’ fees is GRANTED at the reduced amount of $450.00 against
Defendant Action Patrol Services Inc. only. 
Introduction 
Defendant Action Patrol Services
Inc. (Defendant) moved to vacate the default judgment and recall and quash a
writ of possession.  (Code Civ. Proc.,
sec. 473(b).)  Defendant further
submitted with the motion a Proposed Answer. 

Procedure 
The Court file reflects that
default judgment has not been entered and a writ of possession  was not issued.  These two requests for relief in the motion
are MOOT.  
However, as of July 28, 2023,
Defendant’s default was entered.  The
Court considered the motion as a request to vacate the July 28, 2023 entry of
default.  
Discussion  
Defendant asserted that it was
their mistake or excusable neglect in failing to respond to the Complaint
because Defendant mistakenly believed their insurer would assign counsel and
defend against the action.  (Mohiuddin
Chowdhury Decl. pars. 2-12.)  Defendant
provided facts to support the contention that the failure to respond was
mistaken and excusable neglect. 
Plaintiff Starletta Carter (Plaintiff) argued that the motion should be
denied because service of the Summons and Complaint was proper and Defendant
had the duty to monitor the defense to the action.  However, Defendant did not dispute service
and the inference from Defendant’s declaration is that Defendant submitted to
receiving the Summons and Complaint and forwarding the action to their
insurer.  Although it is Defendant’s
obligation to monitor the defense of the action, the Court finds that relying
on the insurer is sufficient to show mistake or excusable neglect.
Further, Plaintiff argued that
they are prejudiced but Plaintiff did not submit any facts to show
prejudice.  At most, Plaintiff’s
prosecution of the action was delayed and/or Plaintiff incurred fees for
obtaining Defendant’s default.  The
prejudice in expending monies to obtain Defendant’s default can be remedied by
Plaintiff’s request for fees.  As such,
Plaintiff failed to show prejudice.
Defendant has shown good cause to
support the motion and Plaintiff failed to present persuasive argument to
oppose the motion.
The motion to vacate the default
is GRANTED.  
Plaintiff requested $1,000.00 in
attorneys’ fees as a condition of granting the motion.  (Code Civ. Proc., sec. 473(c)(1)(A).)  The requested fees are discretionary upon the
Court.  In that Plaintiff was prejudiced
in having to expend funds to obtain the default and oppose the instant motion,
the award of attorneys’ fees is warranted. 
The amount requested is unreasonable and is reduced to $450.00 and
levied against Defendant.  
Plaintiff’s request for
attorneys’ fees is GRANTED at the reduced amount of $450.00 against Defendant.
IT IS SO ORDERED, CLERK TO GIVE
NOTICE.