Here is a summary of the Judge's tentative ruling in YAML format:

```
Case Number: 23STCV17285
Plaintiff's Name: David Velez
Defendant's Name: Down Dog Lodge, LLC
People-Names: Ryan Siegelman
Company-Names: Down Dog Lodge, LLC
Places: California
Dates: 8/5/19, 2/2/24
Events: Arbitration Agreement, Motion to Compel Arbitration
Money: None mentioned
Intentions: To compel arbitration of individual claims and to stay representative PAGA claim
Facts: Plaintiff signed an arbitration agreement with Defendant, which includes a class waiver and a representative PAGA claim
Disputes: Existence and enforceability of arbitration agreement, waiver of representative PAGA claims
Acts: Plaintiff brought a class action lawsuit against Defendant, Defendant moved to compel arbitration of individual claims
Agreements: Arbitration Agreement between Plaintiff and Defendant
Laws: Federal Arbitration Act (FAA), California Arbitration Act, California Code of Civil Procedure, California Labor Code
Case Citations: Rosenthal v. Great Western Fin. Sec. Corp. (1996) 14 Cal.4th 394, Cruise v. Kroger Co. (2015) 233 Cal.App.4th 390, Flores v. Nature's Best Distribution, LLC (2016) 7 Cal.App.5th 1, Iskanian v. CLS Transportation Los Angeles, LLC (2014) 59 Cal.4th 348, Viking River Cruises, Inc. v. Moriana (2022) 142 S.Ct. 1906, Adolph v. Uber Technologies, Inc. (2023) 14 Cal.5th 1104
Statutes: California Private Attorney General Act (PAGA), Federal Arbitration Act (FAA)
Roles: Judge, Plaintiff, Defendant, Managing Member
Significant Statements:
* The Court grants Defendant's motion to compel arbitration of individual claims.
* The class waiver is enforceable, and the representative PAGA claims are stricken.
* The representative PAGA claim will be stayed pending completion of the arbitration.
```

And here is a summary of the Judge's tentative ruling in English text:

The Court grants Defendant's motion to compel arbitration of individual claims. The class waiver in the arbitration agreement is enforceable, and the representative PAGA claims are stricken. The representative PAGA claim will be stayed pending completion of the arbitration.

The Court finds that the arbitration agreement is enforceable, despite Plaintiff's arguments that it is unconscionable. The Court also finds that the class waiver is enforceable, as the FAA applies and the agreement allows for division of PAGA claims into individual and representative claims.

The Court notes that the Viking River Cruises, Inc. v. Moriana (2022) 142 S.Ct. 1906 decision holds that the FAA preempts Iskanian's prohibition against dividing PAGA claims, and that the agreement remains valid as to the individual PAGA claim. The Court also notes that the Adolph v. Uber Technologies, Inc. (2023) 14 Cal.5th 1104 decision holds that the California Supreme Court reversed the Viking River decision, but that the FAA still preempts Iskanian's prohibition.

The Court orders that the representative PAGA claim be stayed pending completion of the arbitration, as the plaintiff lacks standing to maintain the claim after the individual PAGA claim is arbitrated.