  Case Number:  23STCV17285    Hearing Date:   February 2, 2024    Dept:  11 Velez (23STCV17285)
 
Tentative Ruling Re: Motion to Compel Arbitration
 
Date:                           2/2/24
 
Time:                          10:00
am
 
Moving Party:           Down Dog Lodge, LLC (“Defendant”)
 
Opposing Party:        David Velez (“Plaintiff”)
 
Department:              11        
 
Judge:                        David
S. Cunningham III
________________________________________________________________________
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 
Defendant’s motion to compel
arbitration of Plaintiff’s individual claims is granted.
 
The class waiver is
enforceable.  Plaintiff’s class claims
are stricken.
 
The representative Private
Attorneys General Act (“PAGA”) claim is stayed until the arbitration is
complete.
 
BACKGROUND
 
Defendant is a company that
provides daycare, boarding, and grooming for dogs.
 
Plaintiff is a former
employee.  He alleges that Defendant
subjected him and other current and former employees to numerous wage-and-hour
violations.
 
Here, Defendant moves to compel
arbitration of Plaintiff’s individual claims.
 
DISCUSSION
 
Existence and Assent
 
“[W]hen
a petition to compel arbitration is filed and accompanied by prima facie
evidence of a written agreement to arbitrate the controversy, the court itself must determine whether the agreement exists
and, if any defense to its enforcement is raised, whether it is enforceable.”  (Rosenthal v. Great Western Fin.
Securities Corp. (1996) 14 Cal.4th 394, 413.) 
 
“Under ‘both federal and state law, the threshold
question . . . is whether there is an agreement to arbitrate.’”  (Cruise v. Kroger Co. (2015) 233
Cal.App.4th 390, 396, emphasis in original.)
 
The
burden of proof rests with the petitioner. 
(See Rosenthal, supra, 14 Cal.4th at 413 [requiring the
petitioner to prove the existence of the agreement “by a preponderance of the
evidence”].)  To meet the burden, “the provisions of the written
agreement and the paragraph that provides for arbitration . . . must be stated
verbatim or a copy must be physically or electronically attached to the
petition and incorporated by reference.” 
(Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1330; see also Condee v. Longwood
Management Corp. (2001) 88 Cal.App.4th 215, 218 [same].)
 
“Competent
evidence is required to establish both the existence of the arbitration
agreement and any ground for denial.” 
(Knight, et al., Cal. Practice Guide: Alternative Dispute Resolution
(The Rutter Group December 2023 Update) ¶ 5:321.)  “The verified petition (and attached copy of
the agreement) normally proves the existence of the arbitration agreement.  Affidavits or declarations may be necessary
when factual issues are tendered.”  
(Ibid.)
 
Defendant’s
arbitration agreement is attached to the declaration of Defendant’s managing
member, Ryan Siegelman, at Exhibit A. 
The agreement states:
 
ARBITRATION AGREEMENT
 
Employee and [COMPANY] (“Company”) agree to utilize binding
arbitration as the sole and exclusive means to resolve all disputes that may
arise between them, including but not limited to disputes regarding termination
of employment and compensation. Employee specifically waives and relinquishes
his/her right to bring a claim against Company, in a court of law, and this
waiver shall be equally binding on any person who represents or seeks to
represent Employee in a lawsuit against Company in a court of law. Similarly,
Company specifically waives and relinquishes its right to bring a claim against
Employee in a court of law, and this waiver shall be equally binding on any
person who represents or seeks to represent Company in a lawsuit against the
Employee in a court of law.
 
Employee and Company
agree that any claim, dispute, and/or controversy that Employee may have
against Company (or its owners, directors, officers, managers, employees, or
agents), or that Company may have against Employee, shall be submitted to and
determined exclusively by binding arbitration under the Federal Arbitration Act
(“FAA”), in conformity with the procedures of the California Arbitration Act
(Cal. Code Civ. Proc. sec. 1280 et seq., including section 1283.05 and all of
the Act’s other mandatory and permissive rights to discovery).  The FAA applies to this agreement because
Company’s business involves interstate commerce.
 
Included within the
scope of this Agreement are all disputes, whether based on tort, contract,
statute (including, but not limited to, any claims of discrimination,
harassment and/or retaliation, whether they be based on the California Fair
Employment and Housing Act, Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, as
amended, or any other state or federal law or regulation), equitable law, or
otherwise.  The only exception to the
requirement of binding arbitration shall be for claims arising under the
National Labor Relations Act which are brought before the National Labor
Relations Board, claims for medical and disability benefits under the
California Workers’ Compensation Act, Employment Development Department claims,
or as may otherwise be required by state or federal law.  However, nothing herein shall prevent
Employee from filing and pursuing proceedings before the California Department
of Fair Employment and Housing, or the United States Equal Employment
Opportunity Commission (although if Employee chooses to pursue a claim
following the exhaustion of such administrative remedies, that claim would be
subject to the provisions of this Agreement). 
By this binding arbitration provision, Employee and Company give up
their right to trial by jury of any claim Employee may have against Company, or
of any claim Company may have against Employee. 
This agreement is not intended to interfere with Employee's rights to
collectively bargain, to engage in protected, concerted activity, or to
exercise other rights protected under the National Labor Relations Act.
 
In addition to any
other requirements imposed by law, the arbitrator selected shall be a retired
California Superior Court Judge, or an otherwise qualified individual to whom
the parties mutually agree, and shall be subject to disqualification on the same
grounds as would apply to a judge of such court.  All rules of pleading (including the right of
demurrer), all rules of evidence, all rights to resolution of the dispute by
means of motions for summary judgment, judgment on the pleadings, and judgment
under Code of Civil Procedure Section 631.8 shall apply and be observed.  The arbitrator shall have the immunity of a
judicial officer from civil liability when acting in the capacity of an
arbitrator, which immunity supplements any other existing immunity.  Likewise, all communications during or in
connection with the arbitration proceedings are privileged in accordance with
Cal. Civil Code Section 47(b).  As
reasonably required to allow full use and benefit of this agreement’s
modifications to the Act’s procedures, the arbitrator shall extend the times
set by the Act for the giving of notices and setting of hearings.  Awards shall include the arbitrator’s written
reasoned opinion.  
 
All claims brought
under this binding arbitration Agreement shall be brought in the individual
capacity of Employee or Company.  This
Agreement shall not be construed to allow or permit the consolidation or
joinder of other claims or controversies involving any other employees, and
will not proceed as a class or collective action.  No arbitrator shall have the authority under
this agreement to order any such class or collective action.  Employee and Company further understand and
acknowledge that the terms of this Agreement include a waiver of any
substantive or procedural rights that Employee may have to bring an action on a
class, collective, or other similar basis against Company; or that Company may
have to bring an action on a class, collective, or other similar basis against
Employee.  If under applicable law a
representative claim under the California Private Attorney General Act (“PAGA”)
is found to unwaivable and such an action is pursued in court, Employee and
Company agree that any such PAGA claim will be severed and stayed pending
resolution of claims that are arbitrable. 
Due to the nature of this waiver, Company has provided Employee with the
ability to choose to retain these rights by affirmatively checking the box at
the end of this paragraph.  Accordingly,
Employee expressly and voluntarily agrees to waive any right that he or she may
have to bring an action on a class, collective, or other similar basis, unless
Employee checks this box:  [ ]
 
Resolution of all
disputes shall be based solely upon the law governing the claims and defenses
pleaded, and the arbitrator may not invoke any basis (including, but not
limited to, notions of “just cause”) other than such controlling law.  Within thirty days of the arbitrator’s final
written opinion and order, the opinion shall be subject to affirmation,
reversal or modification, at either party’s written request, following review
of the record and arguments of the parties by a second arbitrator who shall, as
far as practicable, proceed according to the law and procedures applicable to
appellate review by the California Court of Appeal of a civil judgment
following court trial.
 
Any agreement
contrary to the foregoing must be entered into, in writing, by Employee and
President of Company.  Oral
representations made before or after employment do not alter this Agreement.  If any term or provision, or portion of this
Agreement is declared void or unenforceable it shall be severed and the
remainder of this Agreement shall be enforceable.
 
EMPLOYEE’S
SIGNATURE BELOW ATTESTS TO THE FACT THAT EMPLOYEE HAS READ, UNDERSTANDS, AND
AGREES TO BE LEGALLY BOUND TO ALL OF THE ABOVE TERMS. 
 
DO NOT SIGN UNTIL
YOU HAVE READ THE ABOVE ACKNOWLEDGMENT AND AGREEMENT.
 
(Siegelman Decl., Ex. A, pp.
93-94, capitalizing, bolding, and underlining in original.)
 
Provisions like these usually
suffice to establish an agreement to arbitrate, but Plaintiff raises an assent
challenge.  He contends:
 
* he does not recall signing the
agreement (see Plaintiff Decl., ¶ 3);
 
* he did not understand that he
was agreeing to arbitration (see ibid.);
 
* he did not receive an
opportunity to negotiate (see ibid.); and
 
* the agreement is ambiguous
regarding Company’s identity.  (See
Opposition, pp. 3-6.)
 
The Court disagrees with the
first three points.
 
First point – Plaintiff signed
“multiple new hire documents” (Plaintiff Decl., ¶ 3), his name is written on
the signature line of the agreement (see Siegelman Decl., Ex. A, p. 94), and he
does not dispute that it is his signature. 
In light of these facts, his lack of memory is inadequate to create a
factual issue.  (See Iyere v. Wise
Auto Group (2023) 87 Cal.App.5th 747, 756.)
 
Second point – Plaintiff’s
ability to read English is uncontested, and, anyway, lack of understanding is
not a defense. (See, e.g., Ramos v. Westlake
Services LLC (2015) 242 Cal.App.4th
674, 687 [“[T]he fact that [the plaintiff] signed a contract in a language he
may not have completely understood would not bar enforcement of the arbitration
agreement.  If [the plaintiff] did not
speak or understand English sufficiently to comprehend the English Contract, he
should have had it read or explained to him.”].) 
 
Third point – Plaintiff does not
declare that he actually asked to negotiate the terms, or consult an attorney,
and was denied.  Moreover, his argument
is belied by the language above the signature line:
 
EMPLOYEE’S
SIGNATURE BELOW ATTESTS TO THE FACT THAT EMPLOYEE HAS READ, UNDERSTANDS, AND
AGREES TO BE LEGALLY BOUND TO ALL OF THE ABOVE TERMS. 
 
DO NOT SIGN UNTIL
YOU HAVE READ THE ABOVE ACKNOWLEDGMENT AND AGREEMENT.
 
(Siegelman Decl., Ex. A, p. 94,
capitalizing and bolding in original.)
 
Moving to the fourth point, the
agreement states that Employee and Company agree to binding arbitration.  Plaintiff contends Defendant’s motion should
be denied because the agreement fails to define who Company is.  In support, he cites Flores v. Nature’s
Best Distribution, LLC (2016) 7 Cal.App.5th 1.  (See Opposition, pp. 4-5.)
 
Defendant claims Flores is
distinguishable because the Flores agreement had several defects, not
just a failure to identify the contracting parties.  (See Reply, p. 8.)
 
In Flores, the Court of
Appeal affirmed the denial of a motion to compel arbitration because the
agreement did not: 
 
* define the terms Employee and
Company (see Flores, supra, 7 Cal.App.5th at 9); 
 
* delineate the disputes “subject
to arbitration before the AAA” versus the disputes “subject to resolution
through the grievance and arbitration procedure contained in a collective
bargaining agreement” (id. at 10); and
 
* “identify which set of the AAA
rules would apply to binding arbitration.” 
(Ibid.)
 
This Court considered the Flores
issue in two prior cases – Padilla v. Partners Personnel-Management
Services, LLC (21STCV03616) and Browning v. Theatre Box-San Diego, LLC
(22STCV27174).  In Padilla, the
defendant tried to distinguish Flores on the same grounds as Defendant
tries here.  Following supplemental
briefing, the Court found Flores analogous since the Padilla
agreement failed to define Employee and Company.  (See 1/10/22 Padilla Ruling Re:
Supplemental Briefs Re: Motion to Compel Arbitration, pp. 2-3.)  In Browning, by contrast, the Court
found Flores distinguishable because the Browning arbitration
agreement expressly stated that it applied to all of the defendants’
entities.  (See 7/10/23 Browning
Ruling Re: Motion to Compel Arbitration, pp. 7-8.)
 
At first glance, the situation
here seems more like the situation in Padilla.  The agreement does not mention Defendant’s
true name even once, and Company is undefined.
 
However, on 9/19/23, the Court of
Appeal reversed the Padilla ruling. 
Relevantly, the opinion states:
 
Partners Personnel
contends it is possible to identify the parties to the agreement despite the
agreement’s failure to define the terms “Company” and “Employee.” It follows,
according to Partners Personnel, that the trial court erred by finding no valid
arbitration agreement exists between it and Padilla. For the reasons discussed
below, we agree. 
 
Although the
arbitration agreement certainly could have been clearer by simply defining
“Company” and “Employee,” when reviewing the arbitration agreement as a whole,
as we must (see Civ. Code, § 1641), it is at the very least “possible to
identify” the parties. (See Civ. Code, § 1558 [“It is essential to the validity
of a contract, not only that the parties should exist, but that it should be
possible to identify them”].) The company’s name is referenced several times in
the agreement, beginning with the title: “Partners Personnel Dispute
Arbitration and Resolution Program[.]” The Partners Personnel logo is also
prominently placed in the top left corner of the first page of the agreement.
Finally, although the first paragraph of the agreement concerns matters other
than arbitration, such as Padilla’s at will-status, it contains 11 references
to “Partners Personnel.” For example, the fourth sentence states: “I understand
that my employment at Partners Personnel is on an at-will basis and that I can
terminate it at any time, with or without reason, and with or without notice,
either by me or by Partners Personnel.” (Bold text omitted.) No other company
is referenced in the four-page document.
 
Moreover, it is
undisputed Padilla signed the agreement the day he was hired by Partners
Personnel, and the agreement was retrieved from Padilla’s personnel file. Thus,
under the terms of the agreement, Padilla “waive[d] [his] right to have any
dispute, claim or controversy . . . decided by a judge or jury in a court.”
(Bolded text and capitalization omitted.) Padilla also acknowledges he was
employed by Partners Personnel, alleging in his complaint that it should be
“deemed an employer” because Partners Personnel “hired, placed and paid [him].”
That Partners Personnel “does [not] address why it failed to define the term
‘Company’ at any point in the four-page document[,]” as Padilla argues, has no
bearing on the issue before us (i.e., whether it is possible to identify the
parties to the arbitration agreement). Although defining the terms would have
undoubtedly made the agreement clearer, failing to do so does not render the
agreement unenforceable in every instance based on the standard set
forth in Civil Code section 1558. 
 
The sole case relied
on by both Padilla and the trial court, Flores v. Nature’s Best
Distribution, LLC (2016) 7 Cal.App.5th 1 (Flores), is
distinguishable. In Flores, the court noted that “although not
specifically raised by the parties, . . . the Agreement states it is between
‘employee and Company[ ]’” but the Agreement “does not define either term.”
(Id. at p. 9.) The court observed that the agreement, therefore, “does not
identify with which entity or entities plaintiff had agreed to submit ‘all
legal, equitable and administrative disputes’ to the AAA for mediation and
binding arbitration.” (Ibid.) The court went on to hold that it “cannot
conclude the parties reached agreement on the matter of submitting any or all
of plaintiff’s claim to . . . arbitration as contemplated by the Agreement”
because “[v]iewing the Agreement as a whole [citation], the Agreement is
ambiguous regarding (1) whether the arbitration provision of the Agreement (not
a grievance and arbitration procedure of a collective bargaining agreement)
applied to any or all of plaintiff’s claims against any or all of defendants in
the instant action and (2) the governing rules and procedures for any such
arbitration.” (Id. at p. 11.) Flores, therefore, does not stand for the
proposition that the parties to a written contract must be specifically defined
in the text to prove the existence of an agreement. Rather, perhaps because the
argument was not developed by the parties, and/or because the court found the
agreement in Flores was ambiguous in two other respects, the Flores
court did not analyze whether it was “possible to identify” (Civ. Code, § 1558)
the parties to the agreement despite the undefined terms. As discussed above,
because here it is possible to identify the parties to the arbitration
agreement based on the context (including, most notably, the title of the
arbitration agreement), the trial court erred by denying Partners Personnel’s
petition to compel arbitration on the sole ground that it failed to define the
terms “Company” and “Employee.”
 
(9/19/23 Padilla Slip Op.,
pp. 6-8, emphasis in original, underlining of case names added.)
 
The reversal is unpublished, but
the Court finds it helpful and persuasive because it provides insight into how
the Second District interprets Flores.
 
The key question is whether the
reversal is analogous or distinguishable. 
It appears to be both:
 



Padilla Reversal
  Factors
 


Analogous


Distinguishable




The title of the agreement
  stated Partners Personnel’s name
 


 


X – Defendant’s name is not
  stated in the agreement’s title




Partners Personnel’s logo
  appeared in the top left corner on the agreement’s first page
 


 


X – Defendant’s logo does not
  appear on either page of the agreement




Although the first paragraph of
  the agreement did not concern arbitration, it referenced Partners Personnel
  by name 11 times
 


 


X – Defendant’s name is not
  referenced in the first paragraph or anywhere else; there are 0 references




Padilla signed the agreement on
  the day Partners Personnel hired him
 


X – Defendant hired Plaintiff
  on 8/5/19, and he signed the agreement that day


 




Partners Personnel retrieved
  the agreement from Padilla’s personnel file
 


X – Defendant’s managing member
  reviewed Plaintiff’s personnel file and retrieved the agreement from there
 


 




Padilla acknowledged that
  Partners Personnel employed him
 


X – Plaintiff declares that
  Defendant employed him from approximately August 2019 until October 2022
 


 



 
On balance, the Court finds the
reversal analogous.  Near the end of the analysis
section, the opinion states: “Flores, therefore, does not stand
for the proposition that the parties to a written contract must be specifically
defined in the text to prove the existence of an agreement.”  (9/19/23 Padilla Slip Op., p. 8,
emphasis and underling of case name added.) 
The requisite inquiry is whether “it is possible to identify the parties
. . . based on the context[.]”  (Ibid.)  While titles and words matter, they are not
dispositive.  Here, similar to the
reversal, the record shows that Defendant employed Plaintiff, that he signed
the agreement on the day he was hired, and that Defendant obtained the
agreement from his personnel file.  These
facts, combined, demonstrate an agreement to arbitrate between Plaintiff and
Defendant.[1]

 
Enforcement
 
Plaintiff does not claim the
agreement is unconscionable.
 
The Court finds the agreement
enforceable and that it covers Plaintiff’s claims.
 
Accordingly, the motion to compel
arbitration is granted.
 
Class Waiver
 
As noted above, the agreement
contains a class waiver.
 
Plaintiff does not assert that
the class claims should not be stricken.
 
The Court finds the class waiver
enforceable, especially because the agreement states that the FAA applies, and
strikes the class claims.
 
Stay Request and
Representative PAGA Claim
 
Defendant asks the Court to stay
the representative PAGA claim until the arbitration of Plaintiff’s individual
claims is finished.
 
Plaintiff contends the stay
request should be denied.
 
Prior to Viking River Cruises,
Inc. v. Moriana (2022) 142 S.Ct. 1906 (“Viking River”), the
applicable law was Iskanian v.
CLS Transportation Los Angeles, LLC (2014) 59 Cal.4th 348. “Iskanian’s
principal rule prohibits waivers of ‘representative’ PAGA claims in the first
sense.”  (Viking River, supra, 142
S.Ct. at 1916, underlined case name added.) 
“That is, it prevents parties from waiving representative standing
to bring PAGA claims in a judicial or arbitral forum.”  (Ibid., emphasis in original.)  “But Iskanian also adopted a secondary
rule that invalidates agreements to separately arbitrate or litigate
‘individual PAGA claims for Labor Code violations that an employee suffered,’
on the theory that resolving victim-specific claims in separate arbitrations
does not serve the deterrent purpose of PAGA.” 
(Id. at 1916-1917, underlined case name added; see also, e.g., Knight,
supra, at ¶ 5:49.4m [citing California case law for the proposition that a
“single count under PAGA could not be ‘split into an arbitrable individual
claim and a nonarbitrable representative claim”].) 
 
In Viking River, the
plaintiff “executed an agreement to arbitrate any dispute arising out of her
employment.”  (Viking River,
supra, 142 S.Ct. at 1916.)  “The agreement contained a ‘Class Action
Waiver’ providing that in any arbitral proceeding, the parties could not bring
any dispute as a class, collective, or representative PAGA action.”  (Ibid.)  “It also contained a severability clause
specifying that if the waiver was found invalid, any class, collective,
representative, or PAGA action would presumptively be litigated in court.”  (Ibid.)  “But under that severability clause, if any ‘portion’
of the waiver remained valid, it would be ‘enforced in arbitration.’”  (Ibid.)
 
“After leaving her position” with the defendant, the
plaintiff “filed a PAGA action . . . in California court.”  (Ibid.) 
“Her complaint contained a claim that [the defendant] had failed to
provide her with her final wages within 72 hours, as required by” Labor Code
sections 101 and 102.  (Ibid.)  “But the complaint also asserted a wide array
of other code violations allegedly sustained by other . . . employees,
including violations of provisions concerning the minimum wage, overtime, meal
periods, rest periods, timing of pay, and pay statements.”  (Ibid.) 
The defendant “moved to compel arbitration of [the plaintiff’s] ‘individual’
PAGA claim” – i.e., “the claim that arose from the violation she suffered — and
to dismiss her other PAGA claims.” 
(Ibid.)  “The trial court denied
that motion, and the California Court of Appeal affirmed, holding that
categorical waivers of PAGA standing are contrary to state policy and that PAGA
claims cannot be split into arbitrable individual claims and nonarbitrable ‘representative’
claims.”  (Ibid.)
 
The Court of Appeal’s ruling “was dictated by . . . Iskanian.”  (Ibid., underlined case name added.)  “Iskanian’s principal prohibition
required the lower courts to treat the representative-action waiver” in Viking
River “as invalid insofar as it was construed as a wholesale waiver of PAGA
standing.”  (Id. at 1917, underlined case
name added.)  “The agreement's
severability clause, however, allowed enforcement of any ‘portion’ of the
waiver that remained valid, so the agreement still would have permitted arbitration
of [the plaintiff’s] individual PAGA claim even if wholesale enforcement was
impossible.”  (Ibid.)  “But because” Iskanian “prohibits
division of a PAGA action into constituent claims, the state courts refused to
compel arbitration of that claim as well.” 
(Ibid.)
 
The United States Supreme Court
granted review and reversed, holding, eight to one, that the Federal
Arbitration Act (“FAA”) preempts Iskanian “insofar as it precludes division of PAGA actions into
individual and non-individual claims through an agreement to arbitrate.”  (Id. at 1924.)  The opinion instructs:  
 
This holding compels reversal in this
case.  The agreement between [the
defendant] and [the plaintiff] purported to waive “representative” PAGA claims.
 Under Iskanian, this provision
was invalid if construed as a wholesale waiver of PAGA claims.  And under our holding, that
aspect of Iskanian is not preempted by the FAA, so the
agreement remains invalid insofar as it is interpreted in that manner.  But the severability clause in the agreement
provides that if the waiver provision is invalid in some respect, any “portion”
of the waiver that remains valid must still be “enforced in arbitration.”  Based on this clause, [the defendant] was
entitled to enforce the agreement insofar as it mandated arbitration of [the
plaintiff’s] individual PAGA claim.  The
lower courts refused to do so based on the rule that PAGA actions cannot be
divided into individual and non-individual claims.  Under our holding,
that rule is preempted, so [the defendant] is entitled to compel arbitration of
[the plaintiff’s] individual claim.
 
(Id. at 1924-1925, underlined case names added.)
 
The opinion continues:
 
The remaining question is what the lower
courts should have done with [the plaintiff’s] non-individual claims.  Under our holding in this case, those claims
may not be dismissed simply because they are “representative.”  Iskanian’s
rule remains valid to that extent.  But
as we see it, PAGA provides no mechanism to enable a court to adjudicate
non-individual PAGA claims once an individual claim has been committed to a
separate proceeding.  Under PAGA's
standing requirement, a plaintiff can maintain non-individual PAGA claims in an
action only by virtue of also maintaining an individual claim in that
action.  [Citation.]  When an employee's own dispute is pared away
from a PAGA action, the employee is no different from a member of the general
public, and PAGA does not allow such persons to maintain suit.  [Citation.] 
As a result, [the plaintiff] lacks statutory standing to continue to
maintain her non-individual claims in court, and the correct course is to
dismiss her remaining claims.
 
(Id. at 1925, underlined case
name added.)
 
Four takeaways seem apparent:
 
* Iskanian’s prohibition
against waiving representative PAGA claims stands;
 
* Iskanian is preempted to
the extent it bars dividing PAGA claims into individual and representative
claims;
 
* the defendant is allowed to
compel the plaintiff’s individual PAGA claim to arbitration; and
 
* once the plaintiff’s individual
PAGA claim is compelled to arbitration, he or she lacks standing to maintain
the representative PAGA claim. 
 
The High Court’s standing ruling
is nonbinding.  The California Supreme
Court reversed it in a case called Adolph v. Uber Technologies, Inc.
(2023) 14 Cal.5th 1104.
 
Given Iskanian, Viking
River, and Adolph, and because the FAA applies, the Court finds that
Plaintiff’s individual PAGA claim should be arbitrated and that the
representative PAGA claim should be stayed pending completion of the
arbitration.
 
 


