  Case Number:  20VECV01264    Hearing Date:   January 31, 2024    Dept:  T DASHJIAN V KESSEDJIAN
20VECV01264
[TENTATIVE] ORDER:  Defendant Steve Kessedjian’s Motion for
Summary Judgment and alternative Summary Adjudication are DENIED.
Introduction 
Defendant Steve Kessedjian
(Defendant) moved for summary judgment (MSJ) and alternatively for summary
adjudication (MSA) of Plaintiff Shant Aram Dashjian’s (Plaintiff) Verified
Second Amended Complaint (VSAC).  The causes
of action (COA) alleged in the VSAC are: 
1) intentional misrepresentation, 2) cancellation of instrument, 3)
slander of title, 4) quiet title, 5) negligence, and 6) monies had and
received.
The reply to the MSJ/MSA was due
on January 26, 2024.  However, none was
filed by Defendant.
Procedure 
The Notice to the MSA failed to
identify the “specific cause of action, affirmative defense, claims for
damages, or issues of duty” sought to be adjudicated.  (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1350(b).)  Further, the specific COA, affirmative
defense, claims for damages, or issues of duty must be repeated, verbatim, in
the separate statement.  (Id.)  The two requirements as to the Notice and the
Separate Statement are mandatory. 
Defendant’s Notice and Separate Statement failed to identify the COA,
affirmative defense, claims for damages, or issues of duty at issue in the
MSA.  Failure to comply with the Notice
and Separate Statement requirements is grounds to deny the MSA.  
For this procedural defect, the
alternative MSA can be DENIED.
The Court further noted that the
memorandum of points and authorities (Memo) in support of the MSJ/MSA is over
ten pages.  Because the Memo is over ten
pages, Defendant was required to include a table of contents and a table of
authorities.  (Cal. Rules of Court, rule
3.1113(f).)  These two requirements are
also mandatory.  Defendant’s Memo failed
to comply with the two requirements.  For
the failure to comply, there is further good cause to deny the MSJ and MSA.
Discussion  
Defendant argued that there is no
triable issue of fact as to the first COA for fraud because the alleged debts
owed by Defendant entered in 2002 for $85,000.00 (VSAC par. 10) and in 2003 for
$90,000.00 (VSAC pars. 12-17) were “wiped out” because the property was
transferred from Plaintiff to Defendant’s trust on May 27, 2009.  (MSJ/MSA pg. 5:27-6:7.)  Preliminarily, the Court noted that
Defendant’s Separate Statement of Facts (DSSF) only identified six facts to
support the MSJ/MSA.  The first three
facts in the DSSF merely cite to exhibits attached to the VSAC that make no
reference to any May 27, 2009 conveyance. 
Defendant then asserted an overpayment to Plaintiff in an amount over
$149,000.00 which is not seen to be relevant to the Defendant’s
contention.  (DSSF 4.)    Defendant’s DSSF 5 and 6 are
incomprehensible because they are not complete sentences identifying a fact.  None of these identified facts asserted a
conveyance in May 27, 2009 from Plaintiff to Defendant’s trust.  Without facts in the DSSF to support the
contention, Defendant did not meet his initial burden to show that no triable
issue of fact exists against the first COA. 
It is not upon the Court to search through Defendant’s attached evidence
to locate the evidence, if any, to support Defendant’s arguments.  If it is not set forth in the separate
statement, it does not exist. 
(California-American Water Co. v. Marina Coast Water District (2022) 86
Cal.App.5th 1272, 1296.)  Defendant’s
first argument failed to cite to supportive facts or even evidence in the
Separate Statement which is grounds to deny the MSJ and/or MSA.  
Even if the Court considered the
May 27, 2009 “Trust Transfer Grant Deed” from Plaintiff to Defendant recorded
on May 8, 2019 (attached to the VSAC pars. 28-33, Exh. D and/or DSSF 5) as
supportive of Defendant’s contention, the allegations in the VSAC taken as a
whole disputed the veracity of the “Trust Transfer Grant Deed.”  Plaintiff expressly alleged that the document
is fraudulent and forged.  Defendant’s
reliance upon the VSAC is unmerited. 
Further, Defendant asserted that a handwriting expert opined that
Plaintiff’s signature on the “Trust Transfer Grant Deed” was genuine.  (MSJ/MSA pg. 11:1-22.)  However, as stated above, no such facts are
identified in the Separate Statement. 
Even if considered, Defendant’s evidence attached as Exhibits 8-9 are
not admissible to support the contention that a handwriting expert came to an
opinion that Plaintiff’s signature as being genuine.  Defendant’s evidence, attached as Exhibits
8-9, are only email correspondence and no affidavit or declaration from the
handwriting expert is attached.  
Even if Defendant’s evidence
could show the genuineness of Plaintiff’s signature, Plaintiff disputed the
fact by submitting his own declaration to support that the signature was forged
and Plaintiff provided the declaration of the notary to show that the notary
did not notarize the document. 
(Plaintiff’s Separate Statement of Disputed Facts (PSSDF) 5.)  With Plaintiff’s evidence a triable issue of
fact exists as to the validity of the “Trust Transfer Grant Deed.”  
Defendant then asserted that
there is no triable issue of fact as to fraud because a foreclosure occurred in
2008 by non-party U.S. Bank, which caused the debt owed to Plaintiff to be
wiped out.  Defendant argued that the
anti-deficiency statutes prohibit Plaintiff from collecting on the debts
owed.  However, as provided above,
Defendant’s Separate Statement failed to present any facts/evidence to support
the contention of any foreclosure or a trustee sale or any other type of sale
from U.S. Bank to Plaintiff.  Even if it
is alleged or shown that Plaintiff purchased the property from U.S. Bank in
2008 (i.e., as alleged in the VSAC), the anti-deficiency statutes are not seen
to apply because there is no evidence to show that the debt owed to Plaintiff
was for purchase-money.  Defendant’s
reliance upon the 2008 foreclosure and/or the anti-deficiency statutes are
insufficient to meet his initial burden to show that no triable issue of fact
exists.  
Defendant then argued that
Plaintiff was repaid in full on the $85,000.00 debt and the $90,000.00 debt and
argued that Plaintiff was overpaid.  (It
is noted that this contention may be based upon DSSF 4.)  However, the fraud COA is not solely based
upon the alleged false promise to repay these two debts.  The allegations in the fraud COA are also
grounded on Defendant’s false promise to pay “all mortgage, tax, and insurance
payments associated with the Subject Property.” 
(VSAC pars. 21-22.)  Because
Defendant’s argument of repayment did not address the fraud allegation related
to payment of “all mortgage, tax and insurance payments,” the argument is
insufficient to show that a triable issue of fact does not  exist as to the first COA.  Defendant failed to meet his initial burden.
Defendant then argued that there
is no triable issue of fact as to the $85,000.00 debt owed to Plaintiff because
there is no proof of funding.  Defendant
provided that Plaintiff’s production of the checks allegedly issued to
Defendant to fund the $85,000.00 loan does not show that the payee was
Defendant.  As reviewed above, none of
the facts listed in Defendant’s separate statement support the contention.  Without any facts to support Defendant’s
contention, Defendant did not meet his initial burden on the MSJ.  Again, if it is not in the separate
statement, it does not exist.  
Even if the Court were to
consider the copies of checks submitted to show that Plaintiff did not pay
$85,000.00 to Defendant (see Defendant’s Exhs. 1-3 showing an $85,000.00 check
being payable to Plaintiff rather than Defendant), the Court noted that the
“evidence” is insufficient to show that no triable issue of fact exists as to
the entirety of all claims in each COA. 
The claims to support the COAs are not limited to the $85,000.00 loan
but also allege claims as to the $90,000.00 loan and the promise to pay “all
mortgage, tax and insurance payments.” 
Without evidence to address these other claims made in the action,
Defendant’s argument solely as to the $85,000.00 loan is insufficient to show
that no triable issue of fact exists as to the entire action.
A single triable issue of fact on
an MSJ requires the MSJ to be denied since judgment in the action cannot be
entered.  (Versa Tech., Inc. v. Superior
Court (1978) 78 Cal.App.3d 237, 240; Zavala v. Arce (1997) 58 Cal.App.4th 915,
926.)  
Because Defendant failed to meet
his initial burden on the MSJ regarding the first COA, good cause is presented
to deny the MSJ.  
Arguments as to the remaining
COAs for cancellation of instrument, slander of title, quiet title, negligence,
and monies had and received are noted to be grounded on the contentions and/or
“evidence” reviewed above.  Because the
above contentions and/or “evidence” are shown to be insufficient to show that
no triable issue of fact exists, Defendant failed to meet his initial burden on
the remaining COAs.
Defendant’s MSJ and MSA are
DENIED.  
IT IS SO ORDERED, CLERK TO GIVE
NOTICE.