  Case Number:  20PSCV00326    Hearing Date:   April 10, 2024    Dept:  G Plaintiff Jose R. Pilpa’s Motion to Enforce the
Settlement Agreement
Respondent: NO OPPOSITION
TENTATIVE RULING
Plaintiff Jose R. Pilpa’s Motion to Enforce the
Settlement Agreement is DENIED WITHOUT PREJUDICE.
BACKGROUND
In this contractual fraud
action, Plaintiff Jose R. Pilpa allegedly invested $20,000 in a “non-profit
venture” run by Pilpa’s neighbor, Defendant Ibrahim Ghanem. Pilpa also signed a
durable power of attorney that designed Ghanem as attorney-in-fact for the
management of Pilpa’s property and personal affairs. Soon after, Pilpa revoked
the power of attorney and requested the $20,000 investment back which Ghanem allegedly
refused.
On May 18, 2020, Pilpa filed
a complaint against Ghanem, American Power Enterprises, LLC (American Power),
and Does 1-10, alleging the following causes of action: (1) promissory fraud,
(2) negligent misrepresentation, (3) conversion and embezzlement, (4) elder
abuse, (5) declaratory relief, and (6) unfair business practices.
On July 15, 2020, Ghanem and
American Power filed a cross-complaint against the Pilpa and Roes 1 through 10,
alleging the following causes of action: (1) breach of contract and (2) quantum
meruit damages.
On November 2, 2023, Pilpa
and Ghanem entered into a stipulated settlement agreement. On March 4, 2024,
Pilpa filed the present motion.
A
hearing on the present motion is set for April 10, 2024, along with an OSC Re:
Dismissal.
ANALYSIS
Pilpa
seeks an entry of judgment enforcing the terms of a settlement agreement
between Pilpa and Ghanem. For the following reasons, the court DENIES Pilpa’s
motion.
Legal
Standard
Code
of Civil Procedure section 664.6 provides a summary procedure that enables
courts to enforce a settlement agreement by entering a judgment pursuant to the
terms of the parties’ settlement. In relevant part, it provides as follows:
“If
parties to pending litigation stipulate, in a writing signed by the parties
outside of the presence of the court or orally before the court, for settlement
of the case, or part thereof, the court, upon motion, may enter judgment
pursuant to the terms of the settlement. If requested by the parties, the court
may retain jurisdiction over the parties to enforce the settlement until
performance in full of the terms of the settlement.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 664.6,
subd. (a).)
A
writing is considered signed if signed by the party or an attorney who
represents the party. (Code Civ. Proc., § 664.6, subd. (b).)
Discussion
In this case,
Pilpa and Ghanem entered into a stipulated judgment before the court on
November 2, 2023, in which Ghanem agreed to pay $20,000 to Pilpa before January
31, 2024. (11/2/2023 Minute Order, p. 1.) Pilpa argues Pilpa is entitled to an
entry of judgment on the grounds that Ghanem has failed to make a timely
payment. (Motion, p. 7:19-20.)
Pilpa,
however, failed to cite any evidence in support of this claim. Furthermore,
Pilpa’s own declaration fails to state clearly that Ghanem did not timely make
the required payment. While Pilpa does claim Ghanem “still attempts” to escape Ghanem’s
obligations and that it is “ripe time for the court to impose a judgment,”
Pilpa failed to clearly and unequivocally state whether Pilpa received the
required funds by January 31, 2024. (Pilpa Decl., ¶ 11.) Absent such a clear
statement under oath, the court finds that Pilpa falied to establish grounds
for the entry of judgment.
Accordingly,
Pilpa’s motion is DENIED WITHOUT PREJUDICE.
CONCLUSION
Based on the foregoing, Pilpa’s
motion to enforce settlement is DENIED WITHOUT PREJUDICE.