 Case Number:  23PSCV02008    Hearing Date:   April 10, 2024    Dept:  G Defendant Sunlight Financial LLC’s Motion to Compel  Arbitration and Dismiss, or Alternatively, Stay the Action Respondent: Plaintiffs  Rosalia Franco and Henry Franco TENTATIVE RULING Defendant Sunlight Financial LLC’s Motion to Compel  Arbitration is GRANTED and the present action is STAYED pending the outcome of  arbitration as to Defendant Sunlight Financial LLC. BACKGROUND This is an action for breach  of contract and credit reporting violations. In February 2021, Plaintiffs  Rosalia Franco and Henry Franco entered into a written construction agreement  with Defendant Best Solar Power Inc. (Best Solar) in which Best Solar agreed to  provide construction services for various home improvement projects on the  Francos’ property in West Covina. In June 2021, the Francos financed the projects  with a series of loans, including a $53,460 loan for solar panels and $49,968 loan  for roofing work. The Francos obtained the solar panel and roofing work loans  from Defendant Sunlight Financial LLC (Sunlight Financial), who was advertised  as one of Best Solar’s “finance partners.” At the time, the Francos allege  their loan transactions were handled by San Martin Escrow. On December 27, 2021, the  Francos allege San Martin Escrow paid off their loans from Sunlight Financial  by transmitting checks to Sunlight Financial in the amount of $53,460 and  $49,968. On January 3, 2022, the Francos allege Sunlight Financial received,  cashed, or otherwise negotiated these checks. Subsequently, the Francos allege  Sunlight Financial denied receiving the $49,968 check and reported the  nonpayment to consumer credit reporting agencies which resulted in significant  damage to Rosalia Franco’s credit score. The Francos also allege the error  prevented them from applying for a permanent loan at the interest rate that  Best Solar had represented they could obtain and resulted in Best Solar  cancelling work for the West Covina property. On October 8, Sunlight Financial  sent Rosalia Franco a written notice that admitted Sunlight Financial had made  an error and promised to update their records to reflect the payment as well as  inform credit reporting agencies of the update. On July 5, 2023, the Francos  filed a complaint against Best Solar, Sunlight Financial, and Does 1-40,  alleging the following causes of action: (1) breach of contract, (2) willful  violation of the California Consumer Credit Reporting Agencies Act (CCRAA), and  (3) negligent violation of the CCRAA. On October 6, 2023, Sunlight  Financial filed the present motion. On December 8, the court stayed the present  action pending Sunlight Financial’s filing of a bankruptcy petition. On February 13, 2024,  Sunlight Financial filed a notice stating that the bankruptcy stay was no  longer in effect. A hearing on the present  motion is set for April 10, 2024, with a status conference re: bankruptcy on  June 27. ANALYSIS Sunlight  Financial moves to compel the Francos to the arbitration pursuant to an  arbitration agreement. For the following reasons, the court GRANTS their motion. Legal  Standard “A  written agreement to submit to arbitration an existing controversy or a  controversy thereafter arising is valid, enforceable and irrevocable, save upon  such grounds as exist for the revocation of any contract.” (Code Civ. Proc., §  1281.) The court must grant a petition to compel arbitration unless it finds  no written agreement to arbitrate exists, the right to compel arbitration has  been waived, grounds exist for revocation of the agreement, or litigation is  pending that may render the arbitration unnecessary or create conflicting  rulings on common issues. (Code Civ. Proc., § 1281.2.) A petition to compel  arbitration functions as a motion. (Code Civ. Proc., § 1290.2.) In  a motion or petition to compel arbitration, “the moving party bears the burden  of producing ‘prima facie evidence of a written agreement to arbitrate the  controversy.’” (Gamboa v. Northeast Community Clinic (2021) 72  Cal.App.5th 158, 165 (Gamboa).) Once the court finds an arbitration  agreement exists, the party opposing arbitration bears the burden of  establishing a defense to enforcement by preponderance of the evidence. (Rosenthal  v. Great Western Fin. Securities Corp. (1996) 14 Cal.4th 394, 413.) In interpreting  an arbitration agreement, courts apply the same principles used to interpret  contractual provisions with the fundamental goal of giving effect to the  parties’ mutual intentions and applying contractual language if clear and  explicit. (Valencia v. Smyth (2010) 185 Cal.App.4th 153, 177.) Because  public policy strongly favors arbitration, “any doubts regarding the  arbitrability of a dispute are resolved in favor of arbitration.” (Coast  Plaza Doctors Hosp. v. Blue Cross of California (2000) 83 Cal.App.4th 677,  686.) The Federal  Arbitration Act (FAA) applies to contracts that involve interstate commerce (9  U.S.C. §§ 1, 2), but since arbitration is a matter of contract, the FAA also  applies if stated in the agreement.  (See Victrola 89, LLC v. Jaman  Properties 8 LLC (2020) 46 Cal.App.5th 337, 355.) Pursuant to the FAA, the  court’s role “is limited to determining (1) whether a valid agreement to  arbitrate exists and, if it does, (2) whether the agreement encompasses the  dispute at issue.” (Philadelphia Indemnity Ins. Co. v. SMG Holdings, Inc. (2019)  44 Cal.App.5th 834, 840, quoting U.S. ex rel. Welch v. My Left Foot  Children’s Therapy, LLC (9th Cir. 2017) 871 F.3d 791, 796.) Discussion In  this case, Sunlight Financial argues the present action is subject to an  arbitration provision in a loan agreement between the Francos and Sunlight  Financial. According to Sunlight Financial, the Francos entered into the loan agreement  on February 8, 2021, for $50,000. (Carpenter Decl., ¶ 3, Ex. A, p. 4.)  Paragraph twenty-six of the loan agreement includes an arbitration provision  that states “[a]ny Claim shall be resolved, upon the election of either Lender  or Borrower, by binding arbitration  administered by the American Arbitration Association or JAMS, under the  applicable arbitration  rules of the administrator in effect at the time a Claim is filed (‘Rules’).”  (Carpenter Decl., Ex. A, ¶ 26(b).) The provision defines “claim” to “mean any  dispute, claim, or controversy . . .  arising from or relating to this Note or the  relationship between Lender and Borrower . . . , and includes claims that are  brought as counterclaims, cross claims, third party claims or otherwise, as  well as disputes about the validity or enforceability of this Note or the  validity or enforceability of this Section.” (Carpenter Decl., Ex. A, ¶ 26(a).) The  provision states it is governed by the FAA. (Carpenter Decl., Ex. A, ¶ 26(j).)  It also allows the Francos to reject the arbitration provision by submitting a  written notice within thirty days from the date the loan agreement was made.  (Carpenter Decl., Ex. A, ¶ 26(i).) Thus, the court finds that Sunlight  Financial adequately established the existence of an applicable arbitration  provision that is governed by the FAA.  The  burden now shifts to the Francos to establish any defenses to the enforcement  of this provision. In opposition, the Francos argue arbitration should be  denied based on the possibility of conflicting rulings pursuant to Code of  Civil Procedure section 1281.2, subdivision (c) and because the arbitration  provision is unconscionable. Possibility of Conflicting Rulings Pursuant  to Code of Civil Procedure section 1281.2, subdivision (c), the court must deny  a petition to compel arbitration if the following applies: “A party to the arbitration agreement is also a  party to a pending court action or special proceeding with a third party,  arising out of the same transaction or series of related transactions and there  is a possibility of conflicting rulings on a common issue of law or fact. For  purposes of this section, a pending court action or special proceeding includes  an action or proceeding initiated by the party refusing to arbitrate after the  petition to compel arbitration has been filed, but on or before the date of the  hearing on the petition. This subdivision shall not be applicable to an  agreement to arbitrate disputes as to the professional negligence of a health  care provider made pursuant to Section 1295.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 1281.2, subd.  (c).) But  “[w]hen the FAA applies, it preempts any contrary state law and is binding on  state as well as federal courts.” (Mastick v. TD Ameritrade, Inc. (2012)  209 Cal.App.4th 1258, 1263.) The FAA “does not authorize courts to stay  arbitration pending resolution of litigation, or to refuse to enforce a valid  arbitration provision to avoid duplicative proceedings or conflicting rulings.”  (Ibid.) Here, the arbitration provision at issue explicitly states it is  governed by the FAA. (Carpenter Decl., Ex. A, ¶ 26(j).) Thus, the court finds  that the exception in Code of Civil Procedure section 1281.2, subdivision (c) does  not apply since it is not appropriate grounds for refusing to enforce an  arbitration provision pursuant to the FAA. In  opposition, the Francos argue the FAA does not preempt California law as held  in Cronus Investments, Inc. v. Concierge Services (2005) 35 Cal.4th 376  (Cronus) and Los Angeles Unified School Dist. v. Safety National  Casualty Corp. (2017) 13 Cal.App.5th 471 (LAUSD). Both cases are  inapposite here. In Cronus,  the court held the FAA does not preempt California arbitration procedure “where  the parties have agreed that their arbitration agreement would be governed by  the law of California.” (Cronus, supra, 35 Cal.4th at p. 380.)  And in LAUSD, the court held California procedures applied when the  arbitration provision had “no provision stating the FAA’s procedural provisions  govern the arbitration.” (LAUSD, supra, 13 Cal.App.5th at p.  476.) Unlike these two cases, the arbitration provision at issue here  specifically states it is governed by the FAA. The  Francos also argue that Sunlight Financial expressly agreed to the  applicability of California arbitration procedures by filing its motion in  California court. The Francos fail to point to any authority, however, that supports  this proposition. Accordingly,  Code of Civil Procedure section 1281.2, subdivision (c) is inapplicable. Unconscionability Pursuant  to both federal and state law, arbitration agreements are valid and  enforceable, unless they are revocable for reasons under state law that would  render any contract revocable” including “fraud, duress, and  unconscionability.” (Tiri v. Lucky Chances, Inc. (2014) 226 Cal.App.4th  231, 239.) “‘[U]nconscionability has both a procedural and a substantive  element,’ the former focusing on ‘oppression’ or ‘surprise’ due to unequal  bargaining power, the latter on ‘overly harsh’ or ‘one-sided’ results.” (Armendariz  v. Foundation Health Psychcare Services, Inc. (2000) 24 Cal.4th 83, 114,  quoting A & M Produce Co. v. FMC Corp. (1982) 135 Cal.App.3d 473,  486-487.) While both elements must be present to prevent enforcement, courts  evaluate them as a sliding scale in that “the more substantively oppressive the  contract term, the less evidence of procedural unconscionability is required to  come to the conclusion that the term is unenforceable, and vice versa.” (Ibid.) Procedural Unconscionability The  Francos contend the arbitration provision in this case was an adhesion contract  as they had no reasonable opportunity to negotiate with Sunlight Financial and no  reasonable market alternatives because Best Solar was partnered with Sunlight  Financial. But the plain text of the arbitration provision contradicts this  contention. In paragraph 26(i) of the arbitration provision, the Francos had  the option to reject the arbitration provision within thirty days of the making  of the loan agreement. (Carpenter Decl., Ex. A, ¶ 26(i).) As such, the court finds  the arbitration provision was not an adhesion contract since the Francos had  the ability to reject it without rejecting the entire loan agreement. The  Francos also argue the arbitration provision was “hidden” in a 23-page document  and inconspicuous. In Fisher v. MoneyGram Intern., Inc. (2021) 66  Cal.App.5th 1084, the court held an arbitration provision was procedurally  unconscionable where it did not “stand out distinctively from the surrounding  text” and a small six-point font. (Id., at p. 1104.) Here, the  arbitration provision appears to be in standard font size. Additionally, this  provision’s heading is stated in all caps, in addition to being bolded, while  the other paragraph headings are only bolded. Last, while the entire provision  is not bolded and in all caps, the specific provision noting that the Francos  have waived their rights to a jury trial is bolded and in all caps. (Carpenter  Decl., Ex. A, ¶ 26(h).) Based on the formatting of the arbitration provision,  the court finds the subject arbitration provision to be conspicuous, and any  procedural unconscionability is minimal at best. Next,  the Francos assert that Sunlight Financial failed to provide a Spanish  translation of the loan agreement and arbitration provision. But “a party may  not avoid enforcement of an arbitration provision because the party has limited  proficiency in the English language. If a party does not speak or understand  English sufficiently to comprehend a contract in English, it is incumbent upon  the party to have it read or explained to him or her.” (Caballero v. Premier  Care Simi Valley LLC (2021) 69 Cal.App.5th 512, 518.) Here, Rosalia Franco’s  declaration does not state Rosalia Franco asked for a Spanish translation of  the loan agreement. Thus, the Francos cannot establish procedural  unconscionability on this ground. Last,  to the extent the Francos suggest Rosalia Franco did not sign the loan  agreement containing the arbitration provision, the Francos failed to establish  this contention by a preponderance of the evidence. At the end of the loan  agreement, there is a page signifying that Rosalia Franco electronically signed  the agreement. (Carpenter Decl., Ex. A, p. 36.) In Rosalia Franco’s  declaration, Rosalia Franco does not admit to or deny signing the document.  (Franco Decl., ¶ 5.) Thus, the court finds that Rosalia Franco’s lack of  clarity on this issue fails to rebut the electronic evidence that Rosalia  Franco signed the loan documents. Substantive Unconscionability In  asserting the arbitration provision is substantively unconscionable, the  Francos maintain the provision requires arbitration that is more expensive than  consumer arbitration pursuant to JAMS or AAA rules. This argument ignores,  however, the actual language of the arbitration provision, which states Sunlight  Financial “will temporarily advance to Borrower any filing, administrative, and  hearing fees for the arbitration of Borrower’s claim against Lender” that are  in excess of the fees that would be required for filing a claim in federal or  state court. (Carpenter Decl., Ex. A, ¶ 26(d).) The  Francos also argue this provision is substantively unconscionable because it  limits their right to conduct full discovery. The Francos fail to develop this  one-sentence argument with any citations to statutes or caselaw. As a result,  the court finds the Francos failed to establish any grounds for substantive  unconscionability, and have failed to establish that the arbitration provision  is unconscionable. Accordingly,  in light of the Francos’ failure to establish a defense to the enforcement of  the arbitration provision at issue, the court GRANTS Sunlight Financial’s motion. CONCLUSION Based on the foregoing,  Sunlight Financial’s motion to compel arbitration is GRANTED.  The present action is stayed pending the  outcome of such arbitration.