  Case Number:  22TRCV00412    Hearing Date:   April 10, 2024    Dept:  M LOS ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT – SOUTHWEST DISTRICT
 
 
Honorable Gary Y. Tanaka                                                                                      Wednesday, April 10, 2024
Department M                                                                                                                           Calendar
No. 14 
 
 
PROCEEDINGS

            Jerome Oswald, et al. v. Evoqua Water Technologies, LLC, et
al.
            22TRCV00412
1.      Jerome Oswald’s Motion for
Preliminary Approval of Class Action Settlement 
 
TENTATIVE RULING

            Jerome Oswald’s Motion for Preliminary Approval of Class
Action Settlement is granted.   
 
Background
 
            Plaintiff filed the Complaint on May
26, 2022. Plaintiff alleges the following facts. Plaintiff is a former employee
of Defendant. Plaintiff filed the instant Private Attorney General Act of 2004
("PAGA") action on behalf of all current and former California-based
hourly-paid or non-exempt employees of Defendant within the State of California.
Plaintiff alleges the following violations: Failure to Pay Minimum and Overtime
Wages; Failure to Provide Paid Sick Leave; Failure to Provide Meal Periods and
Rest Breaks; Failure to Timely Pay Wages During Employment; Failure to Timely
Pay Wages Upon Termination; Failure to Provide Complete and Accurate Wage
Statements; Failure to Keep Complete and Accurate Payroll Records; Failure to
Reimburse Business Expenses. 
 
            The parties entered into a joint
stipulation and settlement agreement for the sum of $1,975,000.00.
 
            Motion for Preliminary Approval of Class Action
Settlement, Conditional Certification, Approval of Class Notice, Setting of
Final Approval Hearing Date 
 
Cal. Rules of Court, Rule 3.769 states:
 
“(a) Court approval after hearing
A settlement or compromise of an entire class action,
or of a cause of action in a class action, or as to a party, requires the
approval of the court after hearing.
 
(b) Attorney's fees
Any agreement, express or implied, that has been
entered into with respect to the payment of attorney's fees or the submission
of an application for the approval of attorney's fees must be set forth in full
in any application for approval of the dismissal or settlement of an action
that has been certified as a class action.
 
(c) Preliminary approval of settlement
Any party to a settlement agreement may serve and file
a written notice of motion for preliminary approval of the settlement. The
settlement agreement and proposed notice to class members must be filed with
the motion, and the proposed order must be lodged with the motion.
 
(d) Order certifying provisional settlement class
The court may make an order approving or denying
certification of a provisional settlement class after the preliminary
settlement hearing.
 
(e) Order for final approval hearing
If the court grants preliminary approval, its order
must include the time, date, and place of the final approval hearing; the
notice to be given to the class; and any other matters deemed necessary for the
proper conduct of a settlement hearing.
 
(f) Notice to class of final approval hearing
If the court has certified the action as a class
action, notice of the final approval hearing must be given to the class members
in the manner specified by the court. The notice must contain an explanation of
the proposed settlement and procedures for class members to follow in filing
written objections to it and in arranging to appear at the settlement hearing
and state any objections to the proposed settlement.
 
(g) Conduct of final approval hearing
Before final approval, the court must conduct an
inquiry into the fairness of the proposed settlement.
 
(h) Judgment and retention of jurisdiction to enforce
If the court approves the settlement agreement after
the final approval hearing, the court must make and enter judgment. The
judgment must include a provision for the retention of the court's jurisdiction
over the parties to enforce the terms of the judgment. The court may not enter
an order dismissing the action at the same time as, or after, entry of
judgment.”
 
“[I]t is the court that bears the responsibility to
ensure that the recovery represents a reasonable compromise, given the
magnitude and apparent merit of the claims being released, discounted by the
risks and expenses of attempting to establish and collect on those claims by
pursuing the litigation. The court has a fiduciary responsibility as guardians
of the rights of the absentee class members when deciding whether to approve a
settlement agreement. The courts are supposed to be the guardians of the
class.” Kullar v. Foot Locker Retail, Inc. (2008) 168 Cal.App.4th 116,
129 (internal citations and quotations omitted). “We do not suggest that the
court should attempt to decide the merits of the case or to substitute its
evaluation of the most appropriate settlement for that of the attorneys.
However, as the court does when it approves a settlement as in good faith under
Code of Civil Procedure section 877.6, the court must at least satisfy itself
that the class settlement is within the “ballpark” of reasonableness.” Id.
at 133. 
 
“Code of Civil Procedure section 382 authorizes class
actions “when the question is one of a common or general interest, of many
persons, or when the parties are numerous, and it is impracticable to bring
them all before the court....” The party seeking certification has the burden
to establish the existence of both an ascertainable class and a well-defined
community of interest among class members. The “community of interest”
requirement embodies three factors: (1) predominant common questions of law or
fact; (2) class representatives with claims or defenses typical of the class;
and (3) class representatives who can adequately represent the class. [¶] The
certification question is “essentially a procedural one that does not ask
whether an action is legally or factually meritorious.” A trial court ruling on
a certification motion determines “whether ... the issues which may be jointly
tried, when compared with those requiring separate adjudication, are so
numerous or substantial that the maintenance of a class action would be
advantageous to the judicial process and to the litigants.” Sav-On Drug
Stores, Inc. v. Superior Court (2004) 34 Cal.4th 319, 326 (internal
citations omitted).
 
Here, for purposes of settlement, Plaintiff has
sufficiently established the requirements for class certification by showing
the existence of an ascertainable class with 606 members and a well-defined
community of interest among the class members. (Decl., Douglas Han, ¶¶ 8-9). 
 
The Court finds that the moving party has adequately
demonstrated that the settlement is fair and reasonable considering the facts
of this action and considering the interests of all the parties including
members of the class. (Decl., Douglas Han, ¶¶ 8-69). Plaintiff provided a
calculation of all the potential penalties and the potential exposure and
reasonable value if the case were to proceed to trial. (Id.) 
 
Therefore, Plaintiff’s Motion for Preliminary Approval of Class Action Settlement,
Conditional Certification, Approval of Class Notice, Setting of Final Approval
Hearing Date is granted.  
 
Plaintiff is ordered to give
notice of this ruling. 
 
 
 
 
 
 