 Case Number:  24PSCV01820    Hearing Date:   September 16, 2024    Dept:  G Defendant Inland Valley Partners, LLC’s Petition to  Compel Binding Arbitration and To Stay the Superior Court Matter Pending the  Hearing on the Petition Respondent: NO OPPOSITION TENTATIVE RULING Defendant Inland Valley Partners, LLC’s Petition to  Compel Binding Arbitration is GRANTED. BACKGROUND This is a wrongful death  action. On June 6, 2024, Plaintiffs Mellisa Perez and Joseph Robert Perdomo, by  and through guardian ad litem Maria Mirella Murguia, filed a complaint against  Defendants Inland Valley Partners, LLC, doing business as Inland Valley Care  and Rehabilitation Center (IVCRC); Chino Valley Medical Center (CVMC); Timothy  Wu, M.D.; Hsin Chen Liu, D.O.; Pomona Valley Hospital Medical Center (PVHMC);  Hammad Shaikh, M.D.; Krishi Chanduri, M.D.; Nathaniel Soriano, M.D.; and Does  1-100, alleging a cause of action for general negligence. On July 2, 2024, Perez and  Perdomo dismissed CVMC, Dr. Wu, Dr. Liu, PVHMC, Dr. Shaikh, Dr. Chanduri, and  Dr. Soriano from the present action. On August 9, 2024, IVCRC  filed the present petition. A hearing on the present petition is set for  September 16, 2024, along with a case management conference on October 28,  2024. ANALYSIS IVCRC  petitions the court to compel arbitration of Perez and Perdomo’s wrongful death  action. For the following reasons, the court GRANTS IVCRC’s petition. Legal Standard “A  written agreement to submit to arbitration an existing controversy or a  controversy thereafter arising is valid, enforceable and irrevocable, save upon  such grounds as exist for the revocation of any contract.” (Code Civ. Proc., §  1281.) The court must grant a petition to compel arbitration unless it finds  no written agreement to arbitrate exists, the right to compel arbitration has  been waived, grounds exist for revocation of the agreement, or litigation is  pending that may render the arbitration unnecessary or create conflicting  rulings on common issues. (Code Civ. Proc., § 1281.2.) A petition to compel  arbitration functions as a motion. (Code Civ. Proc., § 1290.2.) In  a motion or petition to compel arbitration, “the moving party bears the burden  of producing ‘prima facie evidence of a written agreement to arbitrate the  controversy.’” (Gamboa v. Northeast Community Clinic (2021) 72  Cal.App.5th 158, 165 (Gamboa).) Once the court finds an arbitration  agreement exists, the party opposing arbitration bears the burden of  establishing a defense to enforcement by preponderance of the evidence. (Rosenthal  v. Great Western Fin. Securities Corp. (1996) 14 Cal.4th 394, 413.) In  interpreting an arbitration agreement, courts apply the same principles used to  interpret contractual provisions with the fundamental goal of giving effect to  the parties’ mutual intentions and applying contractual language if clear and  explicit. (Valencia v. Smyth (2010) 185 Cal.App.4th 153, 177.) Because  public policy strongly favors arbitration, “any doubts regarding the  arbitrability of a dispute are resolved in favor of arbitration.” (Coast  Plaza Doctors Hosp. v. Blue Cross of California (2000) 83 Cal.App.4th 677,  686.) The Federal  Arbitration Act (FAA) applies to contracts that involve interstate commerce (9  U.S.C. §§ 1, 2), but since arbitration is a matter of contract, the FAA also  applies if stated in the agreement. (See Victrola 89, LLC v. Jaman Properties  8 LLC (2020) 46 Cal.App.5th 337, 355.) Pursuant to the FAA, the court’s role  “is limited to determining (1) whether a valid agreement to arbitrate exists  and, if it does, (2) whether the agreement encompasses the dispute at issue.” (Philadelphia  Indemnity Ins. Co. v. SMG Holdings, Inc. (2019) 44 Cal.App.5th 834, 840,  quoting U.S. ex rel. Welch v. My Left Foot Children’s Therapy, LLC (9th  Cir. 2017) 871 F.3d 791, 796.) Discussion In  this case, the Complaint alleges IVCRC was negligent in providing care and  treatment for Oscar Daniel Perdomo, Perez’s husband and Joseph Perdomo’s  father. (Complaint, p. 4.) IVCRC argues Perez and Joseph Perdomo’s wrongful  death action is subject to an arbitration agreement that was executed by Oscar  Perdomo prior to Perdomo’s admission to IVCRC. (Petition, Ex. A.) Specifically,  they point to the following provisions: “Article 1. It is understood that any dispute as to  medical malpractice, that is as to whether any medical services rendered under  this contract were unnecessary or unauthorized or were improperly, negligently  or incompetently rendered, will be determined by submission to arbitration as  provided by California law, and not by a lawsuit or resort to court process  except as California law provides for judicial review of arbitration  proceedings. Both parties to this contract, by entering into it, are giving up  their constitutional right to have any such dispute decided in a court of law  before a jury, and instead are accepting the use of arbitration. Article 2. It is further understood that any dispute  between Resident and Inland Valley Care and Rehabilitation, its owners,  operators, officers, directors, administrators, staff, employees, agents, and  any management and/or service company that provides services to the Facility  that relates to the provision of care, treatment and services the Facility  provides to the Resident, …, including any action for injury or death arising  from negligence, intentional tort and/or statutory causes of action (including  all California Welfare and Institutions Code sections and Health and Safety  Code section 1430), will be determined by submission to binding arbitration . .  . .” (Petition, Ex. A, art. 1, 2.) The  arbitration agreement states it “is binding on all parties, including the  Resident’s representatives, executors, family members, and heirs who bring any  claims individually or in a representative capacity.” (Petition, Ex. A, art.  4.) It also states it is governed by the FAA. (Petition, Ex. A, art. 7.) Based  on these provisions, the court finds this arbitration agreement applies to  Perez and Joseph Perdomo’s wrongful death action. Furthermore, Perez and Joseph  Perdomo have failed to file any timely opposition to this petition. Accordingly,  because IVCRC has established Perez and Joseph Perdomo’s wrongful death action is  subject to an arbitration agreement and Perez and Joseph Perdomo have failed to  establish any defense to the enforcement of that agreement, IVCRC’s petition is  GRANTED. CONCLUSION Based on the foregoing, IVCRC’s  petition to compel arbitration of Perez and Jospeh Perdomo’s wrongful death  action is GRANTED. The court intends to set an  OSC re: Status of Arbitration Completion in 180 days.