  Case Number:  23CHCV02194    Hearing Date:   May 7, 2024    Dept:  F47 Dept. F47
Date: 5/7/24
Case #23CHCV02194
 
DEMURRER &
MOTION TO STRIKE TO THE FIRST AMENDED COMPLAINT
 
Demurrer & Motion to Strike filed on 2/29/24.
 
MOVING PARTY: Defendant August Roa

RESPONDING PARTY: Plaintiffs Yevgeniya
Vanyan, Gohar Mkrtchyan, and Sanasar Grbashyan

NOTICE: ok
 
Demurrer is to the 3rd cause of action:
            1.  Motor Vehicle
Negligence
            2. 
General Negligence
            3.  Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress
(Violation of Vehicle Code 20001 – Hit-and-Run)
            

RELIEF REQUESTED IN MOTION TO STRIKE: On order
striking allegations in the 3rd cause of
action (¶65) regarding and the prayer (Prayer for Relief ¶3) for punitive
damages in the First Amended Complaint.  

 
RULING: The demurrer is sustained without leave to
amend.  To the extent the motion to
strike is not rendered moot by the ruling on the demurrer, it is granted
without leave to amend.  Answer is due
within 30 days.     
 
SUMMARY OF FACTS & PROCEDURAL HISTORY
 
This action arises from a traffic collision that occurred
on 3/18/22 at approximately 12:20 p.m. on Roscoe Blvd. in Northridge,
California.  Plaintiffs Yevgeniya Vanyan
(Vanyan) and Gohar Mkrtchyan (Mkrtchyan) (collectively,
Plaintiffs) allege the accident occurred because Defendant August Roa (Roa/Defendant)
was speeding and made an unsafe lane change. 
After the accident, Plaintiffs allege that Roa exited his vehicle,
inspected the damage to both vehicle, returned to his vehicle and fled the
scene without providing his information to Vanyan and Mkrtchyan.  Defendant Noelle Fields (Fields) is alleged
to be the owner of the vehicle driven by Roa and Plaintiff Sanasar Grbashyan (Grbashyan) is alleged to be owner of the
vehicle driven by Vanyan.    
 
On 7/24/23, Plaintiffs filed this action against
Defendants Roa and Fields for: (1) Motor Vehicle Negligence; (2) General
Negligence; (3) Negligence Per Se (Vehicle Code 22107, 22350, 20001); (4)
Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress (Violation of Vehicle Code 20001 –
Hit-and-Run); and (5) Malice and Oppression. 
After meet and confer efforts failed to resolve the issues Roa had with
the complaint, on 10/2/23, Roa filed and served a demurrer to the 3rd,
4th and 5th causes of action and a motion to strike certain
portions of Plaintiffs’ complaint regarding punitive damages and the 3rd,
4th and 5th causes of action.  On 12/7/23, the Court sustained the demurrer
to the 3rd and 5th causes of action without leave to
amend, sustained the demurrer to the 4th cause of action with leave
to amend and denied the motion to strike, in part, and granted it, in part,
with leave to amend.  (See 12/7/23
Minute Order).  
 
On 1/5/24, Vanyan, Mkrtchyan and Grbashyan
filed and served the subject First Amended Complaint alleging causes of action
for: (1) Motor Vehicle Negligence, (2) General Negligence and (3) Intentional
Infliction of Emotional Distress, Violation of Vehicle Code 20001
(Hit-and-Run).  After meet and confer
efforts failed to resolve the issues Roan had with the First Amended Complaint,
on 2/29/24, Roa filed and served the instant demurrer to the 3rd
cause of action and motion to strike allegations in the 3rd cause of
action (¶65) regarding and the prayer (Prayer for Relief ¶3) for punitive
damages in the First Amended Complaint.  Vanyan,
Mkrtchyan and Grbashyan have filed a combined opposition to the demurrer and
motion to strike and Roa has filed a reply to the opposition.  
 
ANALYSIS
 
The elements of a cause of action for intentional
infliction of emotion distress are: (1) extreme and outrageous conduct by the
defendant with the intention of causing, or reckless
disregard of the probability of causing, emotional distress; (2) the
plaintiff’s suffering severe or extreme emotional distress; and (3) actual and
proximate causation of the emotional distress by the defendant’s outrageous
conduct.  See Potter (1993) 6 C4th 965,
1001.  In determining whether a
defendant’s conduct is outrageous, it is not enough that the defendant acted
with an intent which is tortious or even criminal, or that the defendant
intended to inflict emotional distress, or that the defendant’s conduct has
been characterized by malice, or a degree of aggravation which would entitle
the plaintiff to punitive damages for another tort.   McMahon (2009) 176 CA4th 1502, 1517.  For conduct to be considered outrageous for
purposes of a cause of action for intentional infliction of emotional distress,
the conduct must be so extreme as to exceed all bounds of that usually
tolerated in a civilized community and the defendant must have engaged in
conduct intended to inflict injury or engaged in conduct with the realization
that injury will result.  Id.; Berkley
(2007) 152 CA4th 518, 533-534; Chang (2009) 172 CA4th 67, 86.
 
“Whether a defendant’s conduct can reasonably be found to
be outrageous is a question of law that must initially be determined by the
court; if reasonable persons may differ, it is for the jury to determine
whether the conduct was, in fact, outrageous.” 
Berkley, supra at 534.
 
Plaintiffs have still failed to allege sufficient facts
to support a finding that Roa’s conduct was so extreme and outrageous as to
exceed all bounds of that usually tolerated in a civilized community and/or
that Roa intended to inflict injury or engaged in conduct with the realization
that injury would result.  
 
Roa’s alleged negligent conduct of speeding and making an
unsafe lane change which Plaintiffs allege caused the collision cannot
reasonably be found to be outrageous. 
(FAC ¶¶28, 29, 30, 31, 32, 42, 46, 48). 
There are no facts alleged in the First Amended Complaint which indicate
that Roa intentionally caused the underlying collision.
 
Rather, the basis for the intentional infliction of
emotional distress cause of action is Roa’s alleged conduct of fleeing the
scene after the accident.  (FAC
¶55).  Even if such conduct could be
deemed to go beyond all bounds of decency and to be intolerable in a civilized
community, Plaintiffs have failed to allege facts to establish that Roa had the
intention of causing, or reckless disregard of the probability of causing,
emotional distress by fleeing the scene; that they  suffered severe or extreme emotional
distress; and/or that Roa’s conduct in fleeing the scene was the actual and
proximate causation of the alleged emotional distress.  
 
Contrary to Plaintiffs’ assertion, Roa’s conduct of
fleeing the scene of the accident did not force Vanyan to chase Roa’s
vehicle.  (FAC ¶17).  Rather, that was a decision Vanyan made
because Plaintiffs felt outrage that Roa would not be held responsible the
collision.  (FAC ¶60).  Unfortunately, hit-and-run accidents,
accidents caused by uninsured, or underinsured, motorists, etc. are the type of
conduct people have to deal with every day in a civilized community without
increasing the risk to themselves and others by chasing vehicles believed to
have caused the underlying incident. 
 
Any shame and humiliation Vanyan felt as a result of
chasing Roa after the collision was the result of her choice to chase Roa on
public roads which likely increased the danger to drivers and passengers of
other vehicles and to pedestrians.  (FAC
¶60).  Similarly, any fear or distress Plaintiffs
felt as a result of giving chase to Roa after the collision was a result of
Vanyan’s, or Vanyan’s and Mkrtchyan’s, decision to chase Roa giving rise to the
possibility of being involved in another accident with Roa or third
parties.  Id.    
 
Based on the foregoing, Plaintiffs have also failed to
allege sufficient facts to support a claim for punitive damages in relation to
the 3rd cause of action.  
 
CONCLUSION
 
Plaintiffs Yevgeniya Vanyan, Gohar Mkrtchyan and Sanasar
Grbashyan have already had two opportunities to plead their claim for
intentional infliction of emotional distress and have failed to adequately do
so.  Additionally, Plaintiff fail to
indicate how they can cure the defects in the 3rd cause of
action.  Therefore, the demurrer is
sustained without leave to amend.  
 
Based on the foregoing, the request to strike ¶65 in the
3rd cause of action is moot. 
The Court finds that Plaintiffs have otherwise failed to support their
prayer for punitive damages, therefore, it is stricken (Prayer for Relief
¶3).  
 
Answer is due within 30 days.   
 
 