 Case Number:  BC697068    Hearing Date:   October 1, 2024    Dept:  H Olsen v. Valmont Industries, Inc., et al.,
Case No. BC697068  
The
hearing on Plaintiff Kyle Olsen’s Motion for Entry of Judgment Pursuant to CCP
§ 664.6 is CONTINUED to November 15, 2024, at 9:00 a.m.
Background
In this
negligence and strict liability action, Plaintiff Kyle Olsen (“Plaintiff”)
alleges that he sustained injuries after a 2017 accident where his vehicle
collided with an X-Lite guardrail end terminal that bordered the I-10 freeway.
In 2018, Plaintiff filed a complaint against Valmont Industries, Inc. (“VII”),
Valmont Highway, Armorflex International Limited (“Armorflex”), Lindsay
Corporation (“Lindsay Corp.”), Lindsay Transportation Solution Sales &
Service LLC (“Lindsay TSSS”), Ferreira Construction Co., Inc. (“Ferreira”),
State of California (“CalTrans”), and Does 1-50. 
On June 24, 2024, Plaintiff filed a conditional
“Notice of Settlement of Entire Case.” 
On July 2, 2024, Plaintiff dismissed the case
against VII, Valmont Highway, and Armorflex, without prejudice. 
Pending before the Court is Plaintiff’s motion for
an order enforcing the settlement agreement.
Legal
Standard 
“If
parties to pending litigation stipulate, in a writing signed by the parties
outside of the presence of the court or orally before the court, for settlement
of the case, or part thereof, the court, upon motion, may enter judgment
pursuant to the terms of the settlement. If requested by the parties, the court
may retain jurisdiction over the parties to enforce the settlement until
performance in full of the terms of the settlement.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 664.6,
subd. (a).)
Discussion

Plaintiff
moves the Court for an order enforcing the settlement agreement between
Plaintiff, CalTrans, Powell, and Ferreira.
On
or about March 26, 2024, Plaintiff, CalTrans, Powell and Ferreira entered into
a written settlement agreement and release (“Agreement”), wherein CalTrans
agreed to pay Plaintiff $2,000,000.00. (Itkin Decl., ¶ 2, Exh. 1.) The
settlement was conditioned upon the Court’s finding and determination that the
settlement was in good faith under Code of Civil Procedure section 877.6, which
determination was made on May 30, 2024. (Id., ¶¶ 3 and 4, Exhs. 2 and
3). Plaintiff complains that CalTrans has not made payment and that CalTrans’
counsel has communicated that it could take 16 additional weeks for the
settlement to fund. (Id., ¶¶ 8 and 9.)
The
Court notes that the Agreement is silent on a time for payment. “[T]he law
implies that the contract shall be performed within a reasonable time. Where a
contract does not fix a time for payment, reasonable diligence and good faith
must be required in such instances and it is the duty of the court to hear
evidence and therefrom fix a time which would be fair.” (Estate of Jones
(2022) 82 Cal.App.5th 948, 954 [quotations and citations omitted].)
Counsel
for CalTrans Benson Chan (“Chan”) and Trang Le (“Le”), in turn, represent that,
once the Court determined that the settlement was made in good faith, they
immediately engaged in the process of having the settlement payment issued.
(Chan Decl., ¶ 5; Le Decl., ¶ 4.) This process involves the submission of a
detailed settlement memorandum and check request package to CalTrans’
headquarters office in Sacramento and requires multiple levels or review and
approval. (Le Decl., ¶ 4.) There have been several delays in processing the
payment, including the settlement package being deemed incomplete due to the
need for a signed Payee Data Record from Plaintiff instead of a W-9. (Id.,
¶ 5.) Plaintiff provided a signed Payee Data Record on or about July 9, 2024,
which was then submitted to Sacramento; however, Le was unable to respond to
certain inquiries and pending issues regarding the settlement package until
after July 26, 2024, because he was out of the office on a personal family
emergency. (Id., ¶¶ 5 and 6.)
Chan
points out that, unlike the settlement funds to be paid on behalf of Powell and
Ferreira by insurance carriers, the monies due from CalTrans are to be paid
through State funds, which require the following of specific procedures. (Chan
Decl., ¶ 6.) Further, Le notes that the submission of the settlement check
request package coincided with the end of the State’s fiscal year (June 30,
2024) and the beginning of the new fiscal year, which causes delays in
processing of payments statewide. (Le Decl., ¶ 7.) Le has reached out to
several departments, informed CalTrans’ Deputy Chief Counsel and Assistant
Chief Counsel, and tasked his assistant to follow up weekly on the status, and
is informed and believes that it will take approximately 4 to 6 weeks for the
settlement check to be issued. (Id., ¶ 8.)
The
Court is inclined, based upon the above information, to continue the hearing
for approximately 45 days. It appears to the Court that CalTrans is making
every effort to perform the Agreement within a “reasonable time,” despite being
hampered by procedural constraints involved with the disbursement of State
funds.
The
Court requests that counsel for CalTrans file a status report regarding the
settlement payment no later than five court days prior to the continued hearing
date.
The hearing
is continued to November 15, 2024, at 9:00 a.m. The Court also continues
the Order to Show Cause Re: Dismissal (Settlement) (currently set for November
8) to November 15, 2024, at 9:00 a.m.