 Case Number:  24PSCV00619    Hearing Date:   October 1, 2024    Dept:  H Jayewardene v. Mercury Insurance Company LLC, et
al., Case No. 24PSCV00619
ORDER
ON DEMURRERS AND MOTIONS TO STRIKE 
1.       Defendant Maral Chorbajian’s Demurrer to Plaintiff’s First
Amended Complaint is OVERRULED. 
2.       Defendants Abraham Chorbajian, Eli Chorbajian, and Maral
Chorbajian’s Motion to Strike Portions of Plaintiff’s First Amended Complaint
is GRANTED. 
3.       Defendants Mercury Insurance Company LLC and Mercury Insurance
Services’ Demurrer to Plaintiff’s First Amended Complaint is SUSTAINED. The Court
will hear from counsel for Plaintiff as to whether leave to amend is requested
and if so, will require an offer of proof. 
4.
      Defendants Mercury Insurance Company
LLC and Mercury Insurance Services’ Motion to Strike Punitive Damages from
Plaintiff’s First Amended Complaint is DENIED as MOOT. 
I.        Background 
Plaintiff
Sean Jayewardene (“Plaintiff”) alleges that he sustained injuries and damages
in a June 12, 2023 motor vehicle accident.
On
April 22, 2-24, Plaintiff filed a First Amended Complaint (“FAC” or the
“Operative Complaint”), asserting a motor vehicle cause of action against
Mercury Insurance Company and Mercury Insurance Services (sued as “Mercury Insurance”) (together, “Mercury”),
Abraham Chorbajian (“A. Chorbajian”), Eli Chorbajian (“E. Chorbajian”), and
Maral Chorbajian (“M. Chorbajian”) (together, the “Chorbajians”). 
Pending before the Court are: (1) the Chorbajians’ demurrer
and motion to strike and (2) Mercury’s demurrer and motion to strike. A Case
Management Conference is set for October 1, 2024.


II.      Legal
Standards
A demurrer may be made on the grounds that the pleading, inter alia, does not
state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action. (Code Civ. Proc., §
430.10, subd. (e).) 
 “A demurrer tests the pleadings alone and not
the evidence or other extrinsic matters. Therefore, it lies only where the
defects appear on the face of the pleading or are judicially noticed.” (SKF
Farms v. Superior Court (1984) 153 Cal.App.3d 902, 905 [citations
omitted].) At the pleading stage, a plaintiff need only allege ultimate facts
sufficient to apprise the defendant of the factual basis for the claim against
him. (Semole v. Sansoucie (1972) 28
Cal.App.3d 714, 721.) “[A] demurrer does not, however, admit contentions,
deductions or conclusions of fact or law alleged in the pleading, or the
construction placed on an instrument pleaded therein, or facts impossible in
law, or allegations contrary to facts of which a court may take judicial
knowledge.” (S. Shore Land Co. v.
Petersen (1964) 226 Cal.App.2d 725, 732 [citations omitted].) 
Pursuant to Code of Civil
Procedure section 436, “the court may, upon a motion made pursuant to Section
435, or at any time in its discretion, and upon terms it deems proper: (a)
Strike out any irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted in any pleading.
(b) Strike out all or any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity
with the laws of this state, a court rule, or an order of the court.” The
grounds for a motion to strike must “appear on the face of the challenged
pleading or from any matter of which the court is required to take judicial
notice.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437.) 
III.     Discussion
A.       The
Chorbajians’ Demurrer
The Chorbajians demur, per Code of Civil Procedure section 430.10(e), to the
Operative Complaint, on the basis that it fails to state facts sufficient to
constitute a cause of action against Mercury or M. Chorbajian.
At the outset, the Chorbajians may not demur on
behalf of Mercury, nor may E. Chorbajian and A. Chorbajian demur on behalf of M.
Chorbajian. The Court’s analysis is limited to M. Chorbajian only as the moving
party.
M. Chorbajian argues that she is an improper party
because she “is neither the driver nor the owner of the defendant’s vehicle.”
(Motion, 2:13-15.) However, this contention is extrinsic to the face of the
Operative Complaint. Plaintiff has identified M. Chorbajian as a “defendant[]
who operated a motor vehicle.” (FAC, ¶ MV-2.) Accordingly, the Court overrules
M. Chorbajian’s demurrer. 
          B.       The Chorbajian’s Motion to Strike
The Chorbajians move the Court for an order striking
out Plaintiff’s prayer for punitive damages (i.e., FAC, ¶ 14(a)(2).).
Punitive damages may be
awarded in an action for the breach of an obligation not arising from contract
upon clear and convincing evidence that a defendant has been guilty of
oppression, fraud, or malice. (Civ. Code § 3294, subd. (a).)
“Malice” is defined as
“conduct which is intended by the defendant to cause injury to the plaintiff or
despicable conduct which is carried on by the defendant with a willful and
conscious disregard of the rights or safety of others.” (Civ. Code § 3294, subd.
(c)(1).) “Oppression” is defined as “despicable conduct that subjects a person
to cruel and unjust hardship in conscious disregard of that person’s rights.”
(Civ. Code § 3294, subd. (c)(2).) “Fraud” is defined as “an intentional
misrepresentation, deceit, or concealment of a material fact known to the
defendant with the intention on the part of the defendant of thereby depriving
a person of property or legal rights or otherwise causing injury.” (Civ. Code §
3294, subd. (c)(3).)
A “conclusory
characterization of defendant’s conduct as intentional, willful and fraudulent
is a patently insufficient statement of ‘oppression, fraud, or malice. . .’” (Brousseau v. Jarrett (1977) 73
Cal.App.3d 864, 872.) “The mere allegation an intentional tort was committed is
not sufficient to warrant an award of punitive damages. Not only must there be
circumstances of oppression, fraud, or malice, but facts must be alleged in the
pleading to support such a claim.” (Grieves
v. Superior Court (1984) 157 Cal.App.3d 159, 166.)
The Operative Complaint
is devoid of any factual allegations showing that the Chorbajians’ conduct was
malicious, oppressive and/or fraudulent to support a claim for punitive
damages. The motion is granted.
C.       Mercury’s Demurrer and Motion to Strike
Mercury demurs, per Code of Civil Procedure section
430.10(e), to the Operative Complaint, on the basis that it fails to state
facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action against it.
Mercury’s demurrer is sustained. The Operative
Complaint is devoid of any factual allegations as against Mercury.
In light of the ruling on the demurrer, the Court
denies as moot Mercury’s motion to strike punitive damages from the Operative
Complaint. 