 Case Number:  24PSCV00129    Hearing Date:   October 1, 2024    Dept:  H Butler
v. Gonzalez, Case No. 24PSCV00129


ORDER
ON MOTION TO BE RELIEVED AS COUNSEL
Uriel Gdolian and Oakwood Legal Group’s
Motion to be Relieved as Counsel is GRANTED, effective upon the filing of a proof of
service showing service of the final
order upon Plaintiff at Plaintiff’s last known address, return receipt
requested.

 
Background
Plaintiff
Sue Ann Butler (“Plaintiff”), who is represented by counsel (Uriel Gdolian of Oakwood
Legal Group), commenced this lawsuit after allegedly sustaining injuries and
damages in a January 20, 2022 motor vehicle accident. 
Pending
before the Court is Uriel Gdolian and Oakwood Legal Group’s motion to be
relieved as counsel of record for Plaintiff.
Discussion 
The
Court has discretion to allow an attorney to withdraw, and such a motion should
be granted provided that there is no prejudice to the client and it does not
disrupt the orderly process of justice. (See Ramirez v. Sturdevant (1994) 21 Cal.App.4th 904, 915; People v. Prince (1968) 268 Cal.App.2d
398.) 
California
Rules of Court, rule 3.1362 requires (1) a notice of motion and motion directed
to the client (made on the Notice of
Motion and Motion to Be Relieved as Counsel—Civil form (MC-051)); (2) a
declaration stating in general terms and without compromising the
confidentiality of the attorney-client relationship why a motion under Code of
Civil Procedure § 284(2) is brought instead of filing a consent under section
284(1) (made on the Declaration in
Support of Attorney's Motion to Be Relieved as Counsel—Civil form
(MC-052)); (3) service of the notice of motion and motion, the declaration, and
the proposed order on the client and on all other parties who have appeared in
the case; and (4) a proposed order relieving counsel (prepared on the Order Granting Attorney’s Motion to Be
Relieved as Counsel—Civil form (MC-053)). The court may delay the effective
date of the order relieving counsel until proof of service of a copy of the
signed order on the client has been filed with the court. (Cal. Rules Court,
rule 3.1362(e).)
Attorney Uriel Gdolian
(“Gdolian”) attests that counsel is unable to reach Plaintiff via telephone and
text messaging. Plaintiff did not provide counsel with an email address. On
January 17, 2023, counsel hired a private investigator. The private
investigator ran multiple searches and attempted to locate Plaintiff through
various outlets such as contacting Plaintiff’s place of employment, contacting
the postal office for any forwarding addresses, and trying to locate relatives
of Plaintiff. On May 8, 2024, the private investigator informed counsel that
they are still unable to locate Plaintiff and have been advised that Plaintiff
is no longer using any post office box facilities. The private investigator is
still trying to reach Plaintiff. 
Gdolian states that he has served
Plaintiff by mail at Plaintiff’s last known address with copies of the motion
papers served with his declaration but that he has been unable to confirm that
the address is current or to locate a more current address for Plaintiff after
mailing the motion papers to Plaintiff’s last known address, return receipt
requested, calling Plaintiff’s last telephone number, conducting a background
check with the address matching what Plaintiff provided upon intake and
checking for additional addresses, and hiring a private investigator.
The
motion is not opposed. The Court determines that the requirements of Rules of Court
Rule 3.1362 have been met.
Accordingly, the motion is
granted, effective upon the filing of a proof of service showing service
of the Court’s order upon Plaintiff at Plaintiff’s last known address, return receipt requested.
The Court sets an Order to Show
Cause Re: Failure to Prosecute for January 6, 2025, at 8:30
a.m.
in Department H of Pomona Courthouse South, 400
Civic Center Plaza, Pomona, CA 91766.