 Case Number:  24PSCV00375    Hearing Date:   October 1, 2024    Dept:  H Xu,
et al. v. Huang, Case No. 24PSCV00375
Defendant Judy May Huang, Trustee of
the Huang Family Trust’s Motion to Set Aside Default and File Answer and
Cross-Complaint is GRANTED. The Court
is inclined to reduce the amount of fees and costs requested by Plaintiffs to
$300.00, payable by Liddle & Liddle to Plaintiffs within 20 days from the
date of the notice of ruling. The Court will hear further from counsel in this
regard at the time of the hearing.

Background
Plaintiffs Wei Xu aka George Xu (“G. Xu”) and Mandy
Sun (“together, Plaintiffs”) allege as follows:
On or about March 12, 2023, Plaintiffs, as tenants, and
Defendant Judy May Huang, Trustee of the Huang Family Trust (“Huang”), as landlord,
entered into a written lease agreement for one of the houses on the
premises located at 11549 Embree Drive in El Monte (the “subject property”). G.
Xu and Huang also agreed that G. Xu would make repairs to the subject property
and to the other house on the premises in exchange for payment. Huang failed to
pay G. Xu for the repairs and to reimburse him for materials expenses. Huang
also failed to correct numerous habitability issues with the subject property.
The city inspector came to the subject property on and after May or June 2023
and issued numerous violations.
Huang
evicted Plaintiffs as a result of G. Xu speaking with the city inspector.
On
February 5, 2024, Plaintiffs filed a complaint, asserting causes of action
against Huang and Does 1-10 for:
1.       Breach
of Lease;
2.       Breach
of Warranty of Habitability;
3.       Breach
of Covenant of Quiet Enjoyment;
4.       Negligence
and Negligence Per Se;
5.       Unjust
Enrichment; 
6.       Nuisance
California Civil Code 3479; and
7.       Wrongful
Eviction.
On
July 8, 2024, the Clerk entered default against Huang.
A
Case Management Conference is set for October 1, 2024. Pending before the Court
is Huang’s motion to set aside default and file answer and cross-complaint.
 
Legal
Standard
“The court may, upon any terms as may be just, relieve a
party or his or her legal representative from a judgment, dismissal, order, or
other proceeding taken against him or her through his or her mistake,
inadvertence, surprise, or excusable neglect. Application for this relief shall
be accompanied by a copy of the answer or other pleading proposed to be filed
therein, otherwise the application shall not be granted, and shall be made
within a reasonable time, in no case exceeding six months, after the judgment,
dismissal, order, or proceeding was taken. . . Notwithstanding any
other requirements of this section, the court shall, whenever an application
for relief is made no more than six months after entry of judgment, is in
proper form, and is accompanied by an attorney's sworn affidavit attesting to
his or her mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or neglect, vacate any (1)
resulting default entered by the clerk against his or her client, and which
will result in entry of a default judgment, or (2) resulting default judgment
or dismissal entered against his or her client, unless the court finds that the
default or dismissal was not in fact caused by the attorney's mistake,
inadvertence, surprise, or neglect. The court shall, whenever relief is granted
based on an attorney’s affidavit of fault, direct the attorney to pay
reasonable compensatory legal fees and costs to opposing counsel or parties . .
.” (Code Civ.
Proc., § 473, subd. (b).)
“Whenever
the court grants relief from a default, default judgment, or dismissal based on
any of the provisions of this section, the court may do any of the following:
(A) Impose a
penalty of no greater than one thousand dollars ($1,000) upon an offending
attorney or party. 
(B) Direct
that an offending attorney pay an amount no greater than one thousand dollars
($1,000) to the State Bar Client Security Fund.
(C) Grant
other relief as is appropriate.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 473, subd. (c)(1).)
“However,
where the court grants relief from a default or default judgment pursuant to
this section based upon the affidavit of the defaulting party’s attorney
attesting to the attorney’s mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or neglect, the
relief shall not be made conditional upon the attorney’s payment of
compensatory legal fees or monetary penalties imposed by the court or upon
compliance with other sanctions ordered by the court.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 473,
subd. (c)(2).)
 
Discussion
Huang
moves the Court, per Code of Civil Procedure section 473(b), for an order
setting aside the July 8, 2024 entry of default and permitting her to file her
proposed answer and cross-complaint.
Huang
seeks mandatory relief pursuant to an attorney affidavit of fault. Huang’s
counsel Raymond Zakari (“Zakari”) represents that his firm was hired to
represent Huang to serve a 30-day notice to quit on Plaintiffs (Zakari Decl., ¶
3); that Plaintiffs vacated the premises and subsequently filed their complaint
on February 5, 2024 (Id.); that Huang ultimately retained his firm to
represent her interests on or about June 6, 2024 (Id.); that his firm
handles a couple hundred new case files each month, most of which are plaintiff
cases for either unlawful detainer or breach of contract (Id., ¶ 4);
that due to a staff error, Huang’s file was designated as a plaintiff breach of
contract file, such that no responsive pleading deadline was calendared (Id.);
that since no response date was calendared no timely response was filed and he
unintentionally failed to reach out to Plaintiffs’ counsel for an extension of
time to respond or to file any responsive pleading (Id.); and that Huang
contacted his firm after receiving the request for entry of default, thus
notifying them that they did not file a responsive pleading (Id., ¶ 5.)
Plaintiffs,
in opposition, make much of the fact that Huang’s counsel never contacted their
counsel to seek a stipulation to set aside the default. This is not required,
however. Plaintiffs also assert that Huang has not set forth a sufficient
showing of attorney mistake, inadvertence, or excusable neglect. The Court
disagrees, based on the above information provided by Zakari.
It
does not matter that Plaintiffs’ counsel contacted Huang’s counsel’s firm on
March 27, 2024 regarding accepting service of the summons and complaint on
behalf of Huang but never received any response. Zakari previously explained
that, while his firm was initially hired to represent Huang to serve a 30-day
notice to quit on Plaintiffs, his firm was not hired as counsel in this instant
lawsuit until on or about June 6, 2024. The motion is granted.
The
Court recognizes that section 473, subdivision (b) provides that it shall,
whenever relief is granted pursuant to an attorney affidavit of fault, direct
the attorney to pay “reasonable compensatory legal fees and costs” to opposing
counsel or Plaintiffs. The Court must award some fees and costs pursuant to
this language.
Plaintiffs
seek $2,000.00 in fees and costs [calculated as follows: 2 hours reviewing
motion and preparing opposition plus 2 hours preparing for and attending
hearing at $500.00/hour]. It is unclear to the Court why Plaintiffs felt the
need to oppose the motion under the circumstances. Plaintiffs do not appear to
have needed to incur any costs and fees other than those associated with the
preparation of the request for entry of default. The Court is inclined to
reduce the amount of fees and costs requested by Plaintiffs to $300.00, payable
by Liddle & Liddle to Plaintiffs within 20 days from the date of the notice
of ruling. The Court will hear further from counsel in this regard at the time
of the hearing. 