  Case Number:  23PSCV02576    Hearing Date:   October 1, 2024    Dept:  H Nash,
et al. v. Lafferty Equipment Manufacturing LLC,
Case No. 23PSCV02576


ORDER
ON MOTION TO INTERVENE
Proposed Plaintiff-in-Intervention’s Pacific Compensation Insurance Company’s
Motion for Leave to Intervene as Party Plaintiff Pursuant to Labor Code § 3853
and CCP § 376 is GRANTED. 
 
Background 
In
this lawsuit involving asserting causes of action of (1) strict products
liability, (2) negligent products liability, and (3) loss of consortium, Plaintiffs
Joshua Michael Nash (“Nash”) and Angela Maire Tyson (together, “Plaintiffs”)
allege as follows:
Lafferty Equipment Manufacturing, LLC (“Lafferty”)
manufactured, designed, and sold the Sanitize/Rinse/LCSS foam hose drop
station, model 1035SS, part number 915125SS (the “sanitation station”). On
December 13, 2022, while Nash was working at Pocino Food Company in La Puente,
California, the sanitation system exploded immediately after Nash connected to
it, causing Nash to sustain injuries to his eyes and face. 
Pending
before the Court is a motion to intervene as party plaintiff filed by Pacific
Compensation Insurance Company.   
Legal
Standard
“A
nonparty shall petition the court for leave to intervene by noticed motion or
ex parte application. The petition shall include a copy of the proposed
complaint in intervention or answer in intervention and set forth the grounds
upon which intervention rests.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 387, subd. (c).)
“The court shall, upon timely
application, permit a nonparty to intervene in the action or proceeding if
either of the following conditions is satisfied: 
(A) A provision of law confers an
unconditional right to intervene. 
(B) The person seeking intervention
claims an interest relating to the property or transaction that is the subject
of the action and that person is so situated that the disposition of the action
may impair or impede that person’s ability to protect that interest, unless
that person’s interest is adequately represented by one or more of the existing
parties.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 387, subd. (d)(1).) 
“The court may, upon timely
application, permit a nonparty to intervene in the action or proceeding if the
person has an interest in the matter in litigation, or in the success of either
of the parties, or an interest against both.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 387, subd.
(d)(2).) 
“Any employer who pays, or becomes obligated to pay
compensation. . . may likewise make a claim or bring an action against the
third person. In the latter event the employer may recover in the same suit, in
addition to the total amount of compensation, damages for which he or she was
liable including all salary, wage, pension, or other emolument paid to the
employee or to his or her dependents. . .” (Lab. Code, § 3852.) 
“If the action is brought by either the employer or
employee, the other may, at any time before trial on the facts, join as party
plaintiff or shall consolidate his action, if brought independently.” (Lab.
Code, § 3853.) 
“If the employer is insured against workmen’s compensation
liability, the insurer has the same right of action as the employer, or is
subrogated to the employer’s right. In enforcing its cause of action the
insurer may . . . join as party plaintiff in the suit previously filed by the
employee . . .” (Burum v. State
Compensation Ins. Fund (1947) 30 Cal.2d 575, 580-581 [citations omitted].)
Discussion
Proposed Intervenor Pacific
Compensation Insurance Company (“Proposed
Intervenor”) moves the Court for an order permitting its intervention as a
party plaintiff.
This case involves a personal injury
accident by Plaintiff who, at the time of the accident, was in the course and
scope of his employment with Pocino. (Johnsen Decl., ¶ 2.) Proposed Intervenor,
under provisions of the Workers’ Compensation Insurance and Safety Act of
California, has become obligated to pay, and has paid, to Plaintiff certain
monies for indemnity and medical expenses. (Id., ¶3.) Proposed
Intervenor seeks to intervene in the instant case by filing the subject
Complaint-in-Intervention for recovery of workers’ compensation benefits. (Id., ¶4, Exh. A.)
The Court grants the unopposed motion
and permits Pacific Compensation Insurance Company to intervene as a party
plaintiff.