  Case Number:  23VECV03053    Hearing Date:   November 18, 2024    Dept:  O  
 
 
 
 
 
SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - NORTHWEST DISTRICT
 



ALAN HARRIS, an
  individual, and PAULA HARRIS, an individual,
                    Plaintiffs,
          vs.
 
DEBBY NEWMAN, an individual, DAVID
  JOSHUA NEWMAN, an individual, and DOES 1 through 100, inclusive,
 
                    Defendants.
 


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
 
)
)
)


     CASE NO.: 23VECV03053
 
ORDER
  GRANTING DEFENDANTS’ MOTION TO COMPEL DEFENDANT’S RESPONSE TO REQUEST FOR
  PRODUCTION OF DOCUMENTS (SET TWO)
 
 
 



 
I.              
BACKGROUND 
This case
arises out of a personal injury matter. Plaintiffs Alan and Paula Harris
(collectively “Plaintiffs”) allege Defendants Debby and David Joshua Newman
(collectively “Defendants”) were negligent when operating a motor vehicle and
were the cause of injuries and damages to Plaintiffs on March 18, 2022. (See
Complaint at 4-5.) 
Defendants
now seek to compel Plaintiffs’ responses to their request for production of
documents, set two (“RFPs”). 
II.           
PROCEDURAL
HISTORY
On July 14,
2023, Plaintiffs filed their Complaint, alleging two causes of action: (1)
Motor Vehicle and (2) General Negligence. 
On January
12, 2024, Defendants filed their Answer. 
On August 15,
2024, Defendants filed their Motion to Compel Alan Harris’ responses to RFPs (“Motion
RFPs”). Plaintiffs’ Opposition was due on November 4, 2024, pursuant to Code of
Civil Procedure § 1005(b).[1] The
Motion RFPs included a Declaration of Defendants’ attorney, Mark P. Lascola.
On November
7, 2024, Defendants’ filed a Notice of Non-Opposition to the present Motion (“Non-Opposition
Motion”).
On November
7, 2024, Plaintiffs also filed their Opposition to Defendants’ Motion (“Opposition”),
including a Declaration of Plaintiffs’ attorney, Daryl G. Crouse.[2] 
III.        
LEGAL STANDARD 
A.            
Request for Production
A party upon
whom a demand for the production of documents has been made has 30 days after
service of the demand to respond. (See Code Civ. Proc. § 2031.260(a).)
The propounding and responding parties may agree to extend the time for
response. (See Code Civ. Proc. § 2031.270(a).) When a party fails to
serve a timely response, the propounding party’s remedy is to seek a motion to
compel responses. (See Code Civ. Proc. § 2031.300(b).) A responding
party that does not provide responses waives the right to object to the demand,
including objections based on privilege or work product. (See Code Civ.
Proc. § 2031.300(a).) However, the court may relieve the waiver if it
determines the party subsequently served a substantially code compliant
response and the party’s failure to serve a timely response was due to mistake,
inadvertence, or excusable neglect. (See Code Civ. Proc. § 2031.300(a)(1-2).) 
IV.         
ANALYSIS
A.       Defendants’ Motion RFPs is Granted.
Defendants’ contend
Plaintiffs failed to serve timely responses to the requested discovery, and therefore
should be ordered to provide code compliant responses without objection. (See
Motion RFPs at 2: 7-12.); (See Non-Opposition Motion at 2: 3-7.) Plaintiffs
argue the work product doctrine absolutely protects the requested documents
because they were “created by or at the direction of Plaintiff’s counsel in
anticipation of litigation and reflect counsel’s impressions, conclusions, or
opinions.” (Opposition at 4: 7-15.)
On April 29,
2024, Defendants served their RFPs on Plaintiffs. (See Motion RFPs at
9-12, Exhibit A.) Plaintiffs do not deny they received Defendants’ RFPs, but
rather note, in Plaintiffs’ attorney’s declaration, they did not serve timely
responses or objections due to an inadvertent oversight. (See Opposition
at 5, ¶¶ 2-3.) Defendants’ counsel attempted to reach Plaintiffs’ counsel to
follow up on the April 29, 2024, RFPs, but no responses had been provided at
the time of filing for the present Motion despite multiple extensions from
Defendants. (See Motion RFPs at 2: 20-8.); (See also id. at 9-18,
Exhibits A-C.) Plaintiffs failed to note they were provided any extension or further
explain why no timely responses were provided beyond the inadvertence noted by Plaintiffs’
counsel. (See Opposition at 5, ¶ 3.)
Here, the
Court finds Plaintiffs failed to provide timely responses to Defendants’ RFPs. By
failing to provide responses to the initial RFPs, Plaintiffs waived their right
to object to the demand for documents pursuant to Code Civ. Proc. § 2031.300(a).
This Court can relieve the waiver if the Court finds the party subsequently
served a substantially code compliant response and demonstrates the party’s
failure to serve a timely response was due to mistake, inadvertence, or
excusable neglect. (See Code Civ. Proc. § 2031.300(a)(1-2).) Both
elements are required for the waiver to be relieved.
Here, Plaintiffs
failed to demonstrate sufficient inadvertence for purposes of waiver relief. (See
Code Civ. Proc. § 2031.300(a)(2).); (See also Sinaiko Healthcare Consulting,
Inc. v. Pacific Healthcare Consultants 148 Cal.App.4th 390, 404 (noting the
court may relieve the party of its waiver, but the party must first demonstrate
each requirement under section 2031.300(a)(1-2)).) In Pelton-Shepherd
Industries, Inc. v. Delta Packaging Products, Inc. (2008) 165 Cal. App. 4th
1568, 1571, the Court of Appeal concluded a party’s failure to respond to RFPs
in a timely manner resulted from its attorney’s excusable neglect. The Pelton-Shepherd
Court held waiver relief should have been granted because Defendant’s
attorney stated he inadvertently failed to open an envelope containing the
demands from Plaintiff’s counsel but was finally informed after he received the
document in the form of additional envelopes from Plaintiff’s counsel once the
responses were overdue. (See id. at 1577.) 
The instant matter
is distinguishable from Pelton-Shepherd. There, defendant’s counsel only
inadvertently failed to open a single envelope and only discovered it once Plaintiff’s
counsel notified them after the responses were overdue. (See id.) Here, Defendants’
counsel notified Plaintiffs’ counsel multiple times, both before and after the
responses were due, and provided multiple extensions for the responses, yet Plaintiffs
never responded. Additionally, Plaintiffs’ counsel failed to explain its
inadvertence further, only noting the inadvertence Plaintiffs’ attorney’s
declaration. In Pelton-Shepherd, counsel placed his inadvertence on
simply failing to open the envelope. (See id.) By contrast, Plaintiffs’
counsel here simply states, “[d]ue to an inadvertent oversight, my office did
not serve timely responses or objections to the Requests.” (Opposition at 5, ¶ 3.)

In addition,
Plaintiffs’ counsel has failed to meet his burden as to the other element of
relief from waiver by still failing to respond to the RFPs even after Defendants’
Plaintiffs’ failure to timely respond to the present Motion RFPs, as Plaintiffs
filed their Opposition days after it was due. Asserting certain objections in an
untimely opposition is no substitute for code-compliant substantive responses
to the RFPs. 
Accordingly,
the Court GRANTS Defendants’ Motion RFPs. Plaintiffs are ordered to serve
Defendants code compliant responses without objection on or before December 9,
2024. 
B.      Sanctions
“The court
shall impose a monetary sanction¿. . .¿against any party, person, or attorney who
unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel¿. . .” responses to interrogatories or production demands,
absent substantial justification or other circumstances that make imposing the
sanctions unjust.¿(Code Civ.
Proc. § 2030.290(c).)
The court shall also impose a “monetary sanction…on the party or attorney, or
both, whose failure to serve a timely response to requests for admission
necessitated this motion.” (Code Civ. Proc. §
2033.280(c).) Similarly,¿“[t]he court
may impose a monetary sanction ordering that one engaging in the misuse of the
discovery process, or any attorney advising that conduct, or both pay the
reasonable expenses, including attorney’s fees, incurred by anyone as a result
of that conduct.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 2023.030(a).) Misuse of the discovery
process includes “[f]ailing to
respond or to submit to an authorized method of discovery,” and “[d]isobeying¿a court order to provide discovery.” (Code Civ.
Proc. § 2023.010(d),
(g).) 
For their
Motion RFPs, Defendants seek discovery sanctions in the amount of $685.00
against Plaintiff and counsel of record, jointly and severally, for failing to
provide any responses, which accounts for Defendants’ counsel’s filing fee,
preparation of the present Motion (1.5 hours), and remote appearance for the
hearing on the present Motion RFPs (1.0 hours anticipated). (See
Non-Opposition Motion at 2: 3-9.); (See Motion RFPs at 8(Attorney
Declaration pg. 2), ¶¶9-10.) The requested amount is based on Defendants’ counsel’s
billable rate of $250.00 per hour. (See Motion RFPs at 8(Attorney
Declaration pg. 2), ¶¶9-10.)
The Court
finds Defendants’ counsel’s hourly rate of $250.00 reasonable given the prevailing
rates in the Greater Los Angeles Area for attorneys with the listed attorneys’
experience. Likewise, the Court finds the time requested reasonable as well.  Accordingly, the Court awards Defendants’
counsel discovery sanctions for the requested amount of $685.00. This amount
reflects Defendants’ counsel’s reasonable expenses, including attorney’s fees,
associated with bringing the Motion RFPs.
Plaintiffs’
counsel shall pay Defendants’ counsel discovery sanctions in the amount of $685.00
on or before December 31, 2024.
V.            
CONCLUSION
Based on the
foregoing, the Court GRANTS Defendants’ Motion RFPs. Plaintiffs are ordered to
serve Defendants with code compliant responses to Defendants’ Requests for
Production without objection on or before December 9, 2024.
The Court
also GRANTS Defendants’ request for discovery sanctions in the amount of $685.00.
Defendant’s counsel shall pay Plaintiff’s counsel on or before December 31,
2024.
IT IS SO
ORDERED.
DATED:      November 18, 2024



Hon. Michael R. Amerian
Judge,
  Superior Court



 


