  Case Number:  22VECV00123    Hearing Date:   June 20, 2024    Dept:  T WATSON V REO 22VECV00123
[TENTATIVE] ORDER:  Defendant Serve All, Help All, Inc. dba Nonprofit Alliance of Consumer Advocates’ Motion to Compel Arbitration and Stay the Action is GRANTED.
Joinder of Defendant Professional Business Management Corporation to Defendant Serve All, Help All, Inc. dba Nonprofit Alliance of Consumer Advocates’ Motion is DENIED.
Plaintiff Gina Watson’s Request for Judicial Notice is GRANTED except it is DENIED as to Exhibits F, G, H, O, P, Q, R, X, and Y.  Judicial Notice is limited to the existence of the documents.  Judicial Notice is not given as to any facts in dispute or hearsay. 
Introduction
Defendant Serve All, Help All, Inc. dba Nonprofit Alliance of Consumer Advocates (Defendant) moved to compel arbitration and stay Plaintiff Gina Watson’s (Plaintiff) action. 
Procedure
Defendant’s objection to the untimeliness of the opposition is MOOT because the Court’s impacted calendar caused the original May 30, 2024 hearing date to be continued. 
Co-Defendant Professional Business Management Corporation (PBMC) joined in Defendant’s requested relief for arbitration and stay of the action.  However, the motion’s arguments and attachments are not applicable to PBMC.  PBMC is not seen as a contracting party to the arbitration agreement in the Service Agreement or the Service Agreement itself.  Without being a contracting party to the arbitration agreement, PBMC failed to meet their initial burden to show that an arbitration agreement exists between PBMC and Plaintiff.  
PBMC’s Request for Joinder is DENIED.
Discussion
In deciding a motion to compel arbitration, trial courts must decide first whether an enforceable arbitration agreement exists between the parties, and then determine the second gateway issue whether the claims are covered within the scope of the agreement.  (Hyundai Amco America, Inc. v. S3H, Inc. (2014) 232 Cal.App.4th 572, 577; Omar v. Ralphs Grocery Co. (2004) 118 Cal.App.4th 955, 961.)  Once it is determined that an enforceable arbitration agreement exists, the burden is on the “party opposing arbitration to demonstrate that an arbitration clause cannot be interpreted to require arbitration of the dispute.” (Buckhorn v. St. Jude Heritage Medical Group (2004) 121 Cal.App.4th 1401, 1406.)  Defendant submitted a copy of the Service Agreement which contained an arbitration agreement.  (Purandar Amin (Amin) Decl. par. 3-4, Exh. 1 at par. 13(b).)  The scope of the arbitration agreement encompassed a broad range of disputes by the use of the phrase “any controversy”.  Plaintiff’s Second Amended Complaint (SAC) sought tort damages related to Defendant’s alleged fraudulent foreclosure prevention services.  Defendant met its initial burden to show the existence of an arbitration agreement and to show that the arbitration agreement covered the disputes alleged in the SAC.  The burden shifts to Plaintiff to dispute enforcement of the arbitration agreement.
Plaintiff argued that the underlying Loan is unenforceable due to fraud and due to the Loan being an illegal predatory loan entered with Co-Defendants The REO Group, Inc. (REO) and due to the Loan being void ab initio for violations of public policy.  However, the Loan and Deed of Trust entered with REO is not the agreement containing the arbitration agreement.  At issue is a Service Agreement between Plaintiff and Defendant.  Plaintiff’s arguments as to the Loan/DOT being unenforceable are irrelevant and unpersuasive.
Plaintiff argued that the arbitration agreement is unconscionable – procedural and substantive.  (Kinney v. United HealthCare Services, Inc. (1999) 70 Cal.App.4th 1322, 1329.)  Both elements must be present and the two elements are reviewed in tandem such that “the greater the degree of substantive unconscionability, the less the degree of procedural unconscionability that is required to annul the contract or clause” and vice versa.  (Id.) Procedural unconscionability concerns “the manner in which the contract was negotiated and the circumstances of the parties at that time and factors of oppression or surprise due to unequal bargaining power” and substantive unconscionability focuses “on overly harsh or one-sided results.” (Id.)  The arbitration provision is seen to be hidden on page 7 of an 8 page agreement, especially in light of the fact that the paragraph title does not reference/identify arbitration but instead is titled “Notices and Decision.”  (Plaintiff Decl. par. 4-9.)  Although the Service Agreement is not overly long, the fact that the arbitration agreement is not specifically identified in its own paragraph with its own title shows surprise.  Even if Plaintiff had thoroughly read the eight page Service Agreement, there is further showing of surprise because the Service Agreement did not provide a copy of the rules of the American Arbitration Association or, at minimum, provide information as to how to obtain a copy.    The Court finds that there is sufficient facts to show some procedural unconscionability.  
To argue substantive unconscionability, Plaintiff argued that the arbitration agreement is one-sided or overly harsh because it is silent as to payment of fees for arbitration.  Plaintiff asserted that the silence would mean that Plaintiff would incur high arbitration fees.  However,  silence is just silence.  The arbitration agreement’s silence cannot be inferred to mean that Plaintiff must pay for arbitration fees.  The argument is not supported by the facts.  Without any facts to support her contention that Plaintiff would be required to pay arbitration fees on her own, there was no showing of substantive unconscionability.  The defense of unconscionability requires the presence of both elements.  Without any facts to show substantive unconscionability, the defense is unpersuasive. 
Plaintiff argued that the arbitration agreement is in violation of the Truth In Lending Act (15 U.S.C. sec. 1639c(e)) (TILA).  However, the Service Agreement at issue is not a residential mortgage loan or an extension of credit secured by a dwelling.  The instant agreement is a Service Agreement for foreclosure prevention.  TILA is inapplicable to the instant arbitration agreement.  The TILA argument is unpersuasive.
Plaintiff failed to meet her burden to show that the arbitration agreement is unenforceable.
The motion to compel arbitration is GRANTED. 
Defendant’s request to stay the action is also persuasive pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure, section 1281.4.
The motion to stay the action between these parties pending arbitration is GRANTED. 
________________________
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER:  Defendant The REO Group, Inc.'s Motion to Compel Arbitration and Stay the Action is GRANTED. Defendant Perry Cooper’s Motion to Compel Arbitration is DENIED. Plaintiff Gina Watson’s Request for Judicial Notice is GRANTED except it is DENIED as to Exhibits F, G, H, O, P, Q, R, X, and Y.  Judicial Notice is limited to the existence of the documents.  Judicial Notice is not given as to any facts in dispute or hearsay. 
Defendants The REO Group, Inc. and Perry Cooper’s Evidentiary Objections filed with the Reply are ruled upon separately.
Joinder of Defendant Professional Business Management Corporation to Defendants The REO Group, Inc. and Perry Cooper’s Motion is DENIED.
Introduction
Defendants The REO Group, Inc. (REO) and Perry Cooper (Cooper) (collectively, Defendants) moved to compel arbitration and stay Plaintiff Gina Watson’s (Plaintiff) action. 
Procedure
Defendants’ objection to the untimeliness of the opposition is MOOT because the Court’s impacted calendar caused the original May 30, 2024 hearing date to be continued.
Co-Defendant Professional Business Management Corporation (PBMC) joined in Defendants’ requested relief for arbitration and stay of the action.  However, the motion’s arguments and attachments are not applicable to PBMC.  PBMC is not seen as a contracting party to the arbitration agreement in the Loan and Deed of Trust (DOT) or the Loan/DOT itself.  Without being a contracting party to the arbitration agreement, PBMC failed to meet their initial burden to show that an arbitration agreement exists between PBMC and Plaintiff.  
PBMC’s Request for Joinder is DENIED.
Discussion
In deciding a motion to compel arbitration, trial courts must decide first whether an enforceable arbitration agreement exists between the parties, and then determine the second gateway issue whether the claims are covered within the scope of the agreement.  (Hyundai Amco America, Inc. v. S3H, Inc. (2014) 232 Cal.App.4th 572, 577; Omar v. Ralphs Grocery Co. (2004) 118 Cal.App.4th 955, 961.) 
Defendant Cooper failed to meet his burden of establishing that there is an arbitration agreement between plaintiff and himself.  Accordingly, in the absence of an arbitration agreement between them, his motion is denied.
Defendant REO has met its burden to establish an arbitration agreement.  Once it is determined that an enforceable arbitration agreement exists, the burden is on the “party opposing arbitration to demonstrate that an arbitration clause cannot be interpreted to require arbitration of the dispute.” (Buckhorn v. St. Jude Heritage Medical Group (2004) 121 Cal.App.4th 1401, 1406.)  Defendant REO submitted a copy of the Loan/DOT which contained an arbitration agreement.  (Perry Cooper (Cooper) Decl. par. 9, Exh. A at par. 50.1 and Exh. C.)  The scope of the arbitration agreement encompassed a broad range of disputes “arising from” the Loan.  The arbitration agreement also included a definition of “Legal Claims” to be included within the scope of the disputes to be arbitrated.  The definition included claims for fraud in the inducement and rescission.  (Cooper Decl. par. 9, Exh. C at par. 2.)  Plaintiff’s Second Amended Complaint (SAC) sought to rescind the Loan and cancel the DOT. (SAC pgs. 49:12 and 50:1.)  Defendant met its initial burden to show the existence of an arbitration agreement and to show that the arbitration agreement covered the disputes alleged in the SAC.  The burden shifts to Plaintiff to dispute enforcement of the arbitration agreement with defendant REO.
Plaintiff argued that the underlying Loan is unenforceable due to fraud and due to the Loan being an illegal predatory loan and due to the Loan being void ab initio for violations of public policy.  However, challenges to the validity of the underlying contract, including contract defenses such as fraud in the inducement or illegality, are for the arbitrator to decide because the underlying contract is separate from the arbitration agreement.  (Nielsen Contracting, Inc. v. Applied Underwriters, Inc. (2018) 22 Cal.App.5th 1096, 1108-1109 (Nielsen).)  Plaintiff’s first argument is unpersuasive because issues as to the validity of the underlying Loan/DOT are not issues determined by the Court.
Plaintiff’s opposition then dedicated five pages of its opposition to an issue that is not in dispute.  The Opposition at section “D” that the Court, and not the arbitrator, is to decide the issue of arbitrability or what claims are to be arbitrated.  (See Opposition, pgs. 8:3 – 12:20.)  However, the Court’s authority to decide arbitrability is not disputed by Defendants.  Even if arbitrability is being placed into issue at this hearing, the Court agrees that arbitrability is an issue to be determined by the Court and not the arbitrator, unless there is a clear and unmistakable intent in the arbitration agreement to delegate the issue to the arbitrator.  As asserted by Plaintiff, the Court does not find any clear and unmistakable intent to so delegate. 
Plaintiff then argued that the arbitration agreement is unconscionable – procedural and substantive.  (Kinney v. United HealthCare Services, Inc. (1999) 70 Cal.App.4th 1322, 1329.)  Both elements must be present and the two elements are reviewed in tandem such that “the greater the degree of substantive unconscionability, the less the degree of procedural unconscionability that is required to annul the contract or clause” and vice versa.  (Id.) Procedural unconscionability concerns “the manner in which the contract was negotiated and the circumstances of the parties at that time and factors of oppression or surprise due to unequal bargaining power” and substantive unconscionability focuses “on overly harsh or one-sided results.” (Id.)  Plaintiff attested that she was in contact with representatives from Co-Defendant Serve All Help All Inc., dba Nonprofit Alliance of Consumer Advocates (NACA) and rushed into signing the Loan/DOT without any time to review or ability to negotiate terms.  (Plaintiff’s Decl. pars. 41-56.)   However, the actions of NACA are not shown to be actions attributable to Defendant REO – the lender.  Although Plaintiff presents evidence of being rushed and an inability to negotiate terms, Plaintiff failed to present facts showing that NACA was an agent or employee of Defendant REO.  Plaintiff’s testimony actually shows that NACA worked with other lenders (i.e., Faith First Bancorp and Prado Investments, LLC). (Plaintiff’s Decl. pars. 30, 56, and 58.)  Without facts linking NACA to Defendants, there is no showing of procedural unconscionability as to Defendant. Because there is no showing of procedural unconscionability, Plaintiff’s unconscionability argument fails.  Unconscionability requires that both elements be present.  Because there  is insufficient showing of procedural unconscionability, the Court need not review substantive unconscionability.  The unconscionability defense is unpersuasive.
Plaintiff lastly argued that the arbitration agreement is in violation of the Truth In Lending Act (15 U.S.C. sec. 1639c(e)) (TILA).  However, the restrictions on the use of mandatory arbitration agreements for mortgage-related transactions are limited to residential mortgage loans and extensions of credit under an open end consumer credit plan secured by the principal dwelling of the consumer.  (15 U.S.C. sec.1639c(e)(1) and (3).)  Plaintiff testifies that she resided at the property when she entered into the Loan/DOT in October 2020.  However, Defendant submitted controverting evidence to show that Plaintiff did not reside at the property in October 2020.  The Court finds Defendant’s evidence to be persuasive. Because Plaintiff did not use the property as her primary residence, the restriction in TILA is inapplicable.  Plaintiff’s argument as to TILA is unpersuasive.
Plaintiff failed to meet her burden to show that the arbitration agreement is unenforceable. 
The motion to compel arbitration as to defendant REO is GRANTED.  Defendant Cooper's motion to compel arbitration is DENIED.
Defendants’ request to stay the action is also persuasive pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure, section 1281.4.
The motion to stay the action between these parties (plaintiff and REO) pending arbitration is GRANTED. 
__________________________
Ruling on Defense Objections: Overuled.  The exhibits were not pertinent to the court's findings.
IT IS SO ORDERED. CLERK OF THE COURT TO GIVE NOTICE.