 Case Number:  24STCV00299    Hearing Date:   October 2, 2024    Dept:  68 Dept.
68
Date:
10-2-24
Case:
24STCV00299
Trial
Date: 5-12-25
 
FURTHER DOCUMENTS
 
MOVING
PARTY: Defendant, O’Neil & Matusek
RESPONDING
PARTY: Plaintiff, Jerry Kohn
 
RELIEF
REQUESTED
Motion
to Compel Further Responses to Request for Production of Documents
 
SUMMARY
OF ACTION
Defendant
O’Neil & Matusek represented Plaintiff Jerry Kohn in Jerry Kohn v. Lou
Maze, et al., 20STCV07618, until Plaintiff terminated representation on June 1,
2023. Following termination of representation, the underlying case settled.
Defendant apparently submitted a lien on the underlying action, and seeks collection
of certain fees and costs from the settlement. Plaintiff seeks to challenge any
recovery, or at least the sought after amount of recovery.  
 
On
January 4, 2024, Plaintiff filed a complaint for Declaratory Relief. On April
16, 2024, the court overruled the demurrer to the complaint. O’Neil &
Matusek answered the complaint, and filed a cross-complaint for Enforcement of
Attorney Lien for Fees and Costs. Kohn answered the cross-complaint on May 15,
2024. On June 7, 2024, the clerk entered defaults against Jerry Kohn and Henry
Matusek II.
 
RULING: Granted.
O’Neil & Matusek move to compel further responses to Request
for Production of Documents (set one), numbers 1-5. Defendant maintains the
objections lack merit and instead demonstrate “semantic gamesmanship and willful
obstruction.” Plaintiff maintains the motion lacks a sufficient meet and confer
effort, and the responses were proper. Plaintiff offers counter-opinions on the
state of the parties’ relationship by characterizing Defendant’s conduct as “exhibited
belligerence, intractable acrimony, and incivility toward Plaintiff and Borsuk
which impede a collegial and rational resolution of this case, not to mention
matters such as discovery.” Plaintiffs challenges the sufficiency of the meet
and confer as well. Defendant in reply reiterates the insufficiency of the
responses, and validity of the discovery. 
 
The motion presents a sufficient meet and confer effort and
response. [Declaration of Henry Matusek II, Ex. 2.] Whether Plaintiff elected
to respond in no way undermines a finding of sufficient effort to engage in the
process. The motion was timely filed.
 
The court finds no support for the vague, ambiguous,
precluding an intelligent response and/or any other form of question objection
to Judicial Council drafted and reviewed interrogatories. Even if Plaintiff maintains the nature of
the request remains uncertain, “the nature of the information sought is
apparent, [and] the proper solution is to provide an appropriate response.” (Deyo v. Kilbourne (1978) 84 Cal.App.3d 771, 783 superseded by
statute on unrelated ground as stated in Guzman
v. General Motors Corp. (1984) 154 Cal.App.3d 438, 444.) The requests
clearly seek information on the case initiated by Plaintiff. Representing an
inability to understand the question or deny relevance of information on an
action brought by Plaintiff undermines credibility and establishes disingenuous
and intentionally obstreperous conduct.
 
On the oppressive, and harassing objections, objecting
parties must file evidence detailing the amount of work involved, in order to
support objections based upon burden and oppression. (West Pico Furniture
Co. v. Sup. Ct. (1961) 56 Cal.2d 407, 417.) “[S]ome burden is
inherent in all demands for discovery. The objection of burden is valid only
when that burden is demonstrated to result in injustice.” (Id. at p. 418.) 
 
“But ‘[f]or discovery purposes,
information is relevant if it “might reasonably assist a party in evaluating
the case, preparing for trial, or facilitating settlement….” [Citation.] Admissibility is not the test and
information, unless privileged, is discoverable if it might reasonably lead to
admissible evidence. [Citation.] These rules are applied liberally in favor of
discovery [citation], and (contrary to popular belief), fishing expeditions are
permissible in some cases. [Citation.]’ (Citations.)” (Cruz
v. Superior Court (2004) 121 Cal.App.4th 646, 653–654.) 
 
The challenged equally available objection lacks support as
well in that the court cannot determine whether Plaintiff concedes to knowledge
required for a response or lacks the subject information, and therefore
declines to reply. (Bunnell v. Sup.Ct.
(1967) 254 Cal.App.2d 720, 723–724.) The court finds
the objection lacks support. The “offer” to review documents and identification
of the name and address of Plaintiff’s counsel undermines the validity of the
objection, and further supports the finding of intentional obstreperous
objections. Again, this is an action brought by Plaintiff, and the court
assumes, as an officer of the court, Plaintiff’s counsel considered certain
facts before filing the action, rather than intentionally filing an
unmeritorious action. 
 
The privilege objections lack any
actual identified privilege. At a minimum, Plaintiff must produce a privilege
log. (Code Civ. Proc. 2031.240, subd. (c).)
 
The motion is granted. Plaintiff
to serve amended, verified non-privileged responses within 15 days of this
order, and a separate privilege log, where applicable.
 
While the court cannot impose
monetary sanctions, even if the court found Plaintiff continues to engage in
efforts to evade provision of any and substantive responses (see below),
further non-compliance can lead to a motion to for issue, monetary and even
terminating sanctions (dismissal of Plaintiff’s complaint). Intentional evasion
through verbose superficial and unsupported objections on a case filed by
Plaintiff may support a court finding that Plaintiff lacks any and all facts in
support of the single claim for declaratory relief. Such a position would place
Plaintiff in a very limited and diminished position to prosecute the case, while
Defendants fully proceed on their cross-complaint for lien enforcement.
 
Simple incomplete responses compelling
Defendant to present a new and additional motion instead of a motion for issue,
evidentiary and/or terminating sanctions may lead to appointment of a discovery
referee in order to address each and every single word, item, description,
person, new objection, etc. strenuously interspersed by Plaintiff. Aggressive
counter discovery and motions to compel further responses in an effort to
engage in attrition tactics (since self-represented counsel cannot recover
sanctions), thereby burdening court resources in the process, may also lead to
a sua sponte setting for a discovery referee.
 
Defendant appears in the action in pro se, and cannot
recover any sanctions. Counsel presents no proof of actual payment or even
identification of other counsel, and otherwise fails to provide a separate
breakout of costs. (Trope v. Katz (1995) 11 Cal.4th 274, 292; Kravitz v.
Superior Court (2001) 91
Cal.App.4th 1015, 1020; Argaman v. Ratan (1999)
73 Cal.App.4th 1173, 1180.) The request for sanction is therefore denied.
 
Four additional motions to compel further responses on
calendar for March 27, April 2, 3, and 7, 2025. The court will not consider any
requests, including and especially any ex parte applications to advance the
hearing dates.
 
Defendant to provide notice.
 