 Case Number:  24STCV03812    Hearing Date:   October 2, 2024    Dept:  68 Dept.
68
Date:
10-2-24 
Case
#24STCV03812
Trial
Date: Not Set
 
ARBITRATION
 
MOVING
PARTY: Defendants, HEXPOL Holding, Inc. and Kirkhill Rubber Company, Inc.
RESPONDING
PARTY: Plaintiff, Johny Callejas
 
RELIEF
REQUESTED
Motion
to Compel Arbitration 
 
SUMMARY
OF ACTION
Plaintiff Johnny Callejas was a 22 year employee with
Defendants HEXPOL Holding, Inc. and Kirkhill Rubber Company, Inc., when
injuries to Plaintiff’s shoulders and knees from work related activities
required physician imposed restrictions. Plaintiff maintains Defendants failed
to sufficiently accommodate Plaintiff, thereby leading to termination.
 
On February 14, 2024, Plaintiff filed a complaint against Defendants
for 1. Disability Discrimination in Violation of Gov. Code § 12940 et seq.; 2.
Failure to Accommodate Disability in Violation of Gov. Code § 12940(m); 3.
Failure to Engage in Interactive Process in Violation of Gov. Code § 12940(n);
4. Retaliation in Violation of Gov. Code § 12940(h); 5. Failure to Prevent
Discrimination in Violation of Gov. Code § 12940(k); 6. Wrongful Termination in
Violation of Public Policy.
 
RULING: Continued for
Evidentiary Hearing.
Evidentiary
Objections to the Declaration of Todd Mowery: Overruled on Foundation and
Personal Knowledge/Sustained on Hearsay regarding purported statements to Murua
regarding request to review the document, or lack of questions to Murua or
anyone else at employer office.
 
Defendants
HEXPOL Holding, Inc. and Kirkhill Rubber Company, Inc. move to compel arbitration
on the complaint of plaintiff Johny Callejas. Defendants move to compel
arbitration based on the arbitration provision in the “Arbitration Agreement.”
Defendants maintain all claims in the operative complaint are subject to
arbitration under the terms of the agreement. Plaintiff in opposition denies
the existence of a valid executed agreement, and enforcement presents unconscionable
terms. Defendants in reply reiterate the execution of the agreement and
coverage of the dispute by said agreement, and denies any unconscionability.
Defendants in reply maintain the existence of executed agreement, and no basis
for denial of enforcement. Defendant submits a supplemental declarations in
support. Defendant requests an evidentiary hearing on the signatures.
 
“A written agreement to submit to arbitration an existing
controversy or a controversy thereafter arising is valid, enforceable and
irrevocable, save upon such grounds as exist for the revocation of any
contract.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 1281.) “On petition of a party to an arbitration
agreement alleging the existence of a written agreement to arbitrate a
controversy and that a party thereto refuses to arbitrate such controversy, the
court shall order the petitioner and the respondent to arbitrate the controversy
if it determines that an agreement to arbitrate the controversy exists, unless
it determines that: (a) The right to compel arbitration has been waived by the
petitioner; or (b) Grounds exist for the revocation of the agreement.” (Code
Civ. Proc., § 1281.2.)
 
The law creates a general presumption in favor of
arbitration. In a motion to
compel arbitration, the moving party must prove by a preponderance of evidence
the existence of the arbitration agreement and that the dispute is covered by
the agreement. “‘Under “both
federal and state law, the threshold question presented by a petition to compel
arbitration is whether there is an agreement to arbitrate.”’” (Long v. Provide Commerce, Inc. (2016) 245
Cal.App.4th 855, 861.) “Private arbitration is a
matter of agreement between the parties and is governed by contract law. (Platt Pacific, Inc. v. Andelson (1993)
6 Cal.4th 307, 313.) In a
motion to compel arbitration, the moving party must prove by a preponderance of
evidence the existence of the arbitration agreement and that the dispute is
covered by the agreement. The burden then shifts to the resisting party to
prove by a preponderance of evidence a ground for denial (e.g., fraud,
unconscionability, etc.). (Rosenthal v. Great Western Fin'l Securities Corp.
(1996) 14 Cal.4th 394, 413-414; Gamboa v. Northeast Community Clinic (2021) 72 Cal.App.5th 158, 164–165; Hotels Nevada v. L.A. Pacific Ctr.,
Inc. (2006) 144
Cal.App.4th 754, 758.) Any challenges to the formation of the arbitration agreement
should be considered before any order sending the parties to arbitration. The trier of fact weighs all evidence, including
affidavits, declarations, documents, and, if applicable, oral testimony to
determine whether the action goes to arbitration. (Hotels Nevada v. L.A. Pacific Ctr.,
Inc., supra, 144 Cal.App.4th at p. 758.)
 
Defendants
present both a copy of the “Mutual Agreement to Arbitrate.” [Declarations of Todd
Mowery and Shiva Razipour, Ex. A.] The January 24, 2023, dated agreement shows
two signatures—one with the printed name of Jony Callejas De Paz, and a second
less legible signature from “HR Mgr.” According to Mowery, this is the
signature of “Mr. Murua.”
 
Plaintiff
categorically denies ever signing said agreement. The challenge is presented in
three sentences: “7. Hector
Murua did not provide me with the purported arbitration agreement. I did not
receive an arbitration agreement from Defendants. I do not recognize the
purported arbitration agreement. 8. Hector Murua did not ask me to sign the
purported arbitration agreement. Nor did I sign the purported arbitration
agreement. 9. The signature on the arbitration agreement is not mine. In
addition, my name is spelled incorrectly on the printed name portion of the
arbitration agreement.” [Mowery Decl., Ex. A.]

Mowery maintains the company obtained signatures of all current employees as
part of an “update” in 2023. Employees were given the option or rejecting the
agreement. [Mowery Decl., 9.] The court finds no basis to dispute the policy or
presentation of agreements to employees. While continued employment by
Plaintiff can constitutes a basis for a finding of acceptance of the
arbitration agreement, the option of allowing an employee to remain employed
even if rejecte renders any finding of de facto acceptance inapplicable. (See Gorlach v. Sports Club Co.
(2012) 209 Cal.App.4th 1497, 1508 accord Craig
v. Brown & Root, Inc. (2000) 84
Cal.App.4th 416, 420-421.) 
 
The denial of execution of the
agreement finds support in that Plaintiff’s name is spelled incorrectly and the
represented signature on the form appears different than representation
provided in the declaration of Plaintiff. Defendants concede to the differences
in reply. 
 
The court finds the hearsay
objection to the Mowery declaration regarding the purported communications with
Mr. Murua, and the discrepancy in spelling and signature sufficient to render
the execution of the agreement in question. The declaration of Hector Murua and
supplemental declaration of Todd Mowery in reply seek to shore up the
shortcomings in the motion, but considering such a late submitted item unfairly
deprives Plaintiff of an opportunity to challenge the made representations.
 
Normally, the court would deny the
motion given the failure of the moving party to establish a valid agreement,
but because of the factual discrepancy and specific request for an evidentiary
hearing, the court is compelled to conduct further review. The court therefore
sets an evidentiary hearing for January 16, 2025. Court calendars are
significantly impacted, and the court lacks any earlier spots given the
attention required for the subject item.
 
The parties may submit
supplemental declarations only from the witnesses to the transaction, and any
declaration of a handwriting expert. The court will not consider any new points
and authorities or additional exhibits except in support of the limited and
narrow consideration of the purported executed signature on the represented
date in question.
 
Upon the determination of the
authenticity of the signature, the court will either deny the motion on the
basis of the lack of a valid agreement, or continue with the Plaintiff’s burden
in establishing the unconscionability defenses to enforcement. The court
reserves a date of February 18, 2025, for the follow-up hearing on the motion
to compel arbitration following the evidentiary hearing. 
 
The court will concurrently
conduct the case management conference.
 
Moving Defendants to give notice.
 