 Case Number:  23STCV10768    Hearing Date:   December 11, 2023    Dept:  52 Plaintiff Forrest
C. Bennett’s Motion for Attorney’s Fees and Costs
Plaintiff Forrest
C. Bennett moves for attorney fees and expenses under Civil Code section
1794(d).  
This motion is
premature.  Civil Code section 1794(d)
provides for attorney fees and expenses “[i]f the buyer prevails in an action
under this section.”  Code of Civil
Procedure section 1032(a)(4) provides, “ ‘Prevailing party’ includes the party
with a net monetary recovery.”  Plaintiff
has not yet prevailed in this action.  Although
plaintiff has entered into a settlement agreement stating that he prevailed,
the court has not entered a judgment pursuant to that settlement agreement and
plaintiff has not filed an independent action for breach of contract.  Plaintiff cannot realize a net monetary
recovery and recover attorney fees until the disposition of this action.
Under the
California Rules of Court, a motion for attorney fees should generally be filed
after judgment.  Rule 3.1702(b)(1) provides
that a “motion to claim attorney’s
fees for services up to and including the rendition of judgment in the trial
court … must be served and filed within the time for filing a
notice of appeal.”  The time for filing a
notice of appeal typically does not begin until judgment is entered.  Rule 8.104(d)(1) provides, “A notice of
appeal filed after judgment is rendered but before it is entered is valid and
is treated as filed immediately after entry of judgment.”  
            Typically,
in Song-Beverly Consumer Warranty Act actions resolved by settlement rather
than on the merits, the plaintiff files a motion for attorney fees after he or
she files a notice of settlement.  Once the
plaintiff files a notice of settlement, he or she must file a request for
dismissal of the entire case within a certain period of time.  (See Cal. Rules of Court, Rule 3.1385, subds.
(b) & (c).)  The plaintiff then has
several options.  The plaintiff may file a
motion to enter judgment pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 664.6
(section 664.6) and simultaneously, or within the time period provided by Rule
3.1702, file a motion for attorney fees. 
Alternatively, the plaintiff may obtain a stipulation with the defendant
that the court shall retain jurisdiction to enforce the terms of the
settlement, including the provisions regarding attorney fees, after the court
enters judgment or dismissal.  Under this
option, the plaintiff has more time (though not unlimited) to file a motion for
attorney fees. 
Here, plaintiff has
not filed a notice of settlement, as required under California Rules of Court,
rule 3.1385.  He has also not filed a
motion to enforce the settlement pursuant to section 664.6.  He has also not yet obtained a stipulation
with defendant that the court shall retain jurisdiction to enforce the terms of
the settlement upon entry of judgment or dismissal.  
Plaintiff Forrest
C. Bennett’s motion for attorney fees and costs is denied without prejudice.  Plaintiff is ordered to
file a notice of settlement on mandatory Judicial Council of California form CM-200
forthwith.  Plaintiff may renew the
motion after filing a notice of settlement.
 