 Case Number:  23LBCV01255    Hearing Date:   June 20, 2024    Dept:  S27 1.    
Background Facts
Plaintiff, Eric Cleveland filed this action against Defendants, Cancun
Properties LLC, Anjai Savire LLC, and Sirenitas Restaurant, Inc. for violations
of the ADA and UNRUH, contending he has osteoarthritis and Defendants’ property
is in violation of the ADA and UNRUH because it needs to have an asphalt
overlap in the parking area and needs to have work done on the disabled parking
space for the property.  
 
2.     Motion to Compel
a.     Procedural History
Plaintiff filed this motion to compel on 4/15/24, setting it for
hearing on 6/20/24.  The motion seeks to
compel further responses to RPDs, further responses to FROGs, further responses
to RFAs, and the depositions of David Yashar and Fernaz Esther Fard.  
 
On 6/07/24, Defendant filed opposition to the portion of the motion
seeking to compel the depositions of Yashar and Fard.  On 6/08/24, Defendant filed opposition to the
portion of the motion seeking to compel further responses to RPDs, FROGs, and
RFAs.  
 
On 6/12/24, Plaintiff filed reply papers in response to the opposition.  
 
b.    
Depositions
Plaintiff propounded demands for
depositions on 2/27/24, pursuant to which he noticed the depositions of David
Yashar and Farnaz Esther Fard.  The
parties met and conferred repeatedly about deposition dates, but then on
3/20/24, Defense Counsel contended, for the first time, that Brett Daniels was
the PMK for Cancun Properties and asked about a date for Daniels’s
deposition.  On 3/22/24, Defendant
clarified that it believes Plaintiff should depose ONLY Daniels and not Yashar
or Fard.  On 4/15/24, having failed to
resolve the issue, Plaintiff filed this motion to compel.  
 
Defendant opposes the motion,
arguing Yashar and Fard are merely investors in Cancun, such that they lack
personal knowledge of any details of this case. 
Defendant argues the motion seeks to compel an “apex deposition,” which
is improper under Liberty Mutual and its progeny.  
 
In both the moving papers and the
reply papers, Plaintiff correctly notes that Defendant never served any
objections to the deposition demand, and never filed a motion for a protective
order concerning the depositions.  The
cases cited by Defendant that collectively stand for the position that apex
depositions are often improper were decided in the context of motions for
protective orders.  Absent such motion,
Defendant needed to, at minimum, serve timely objections to the deposition
demand.  CCP §2025.450 requires the Court
to grant the motion to compel when the deponent, having failed to serve a
timely and valid objection, fails to appear at a properly noticed
deposition.  Such is the case here, and
the motion is granted.
 
The Court notes, additionally, that
Yashar and Yard do not appear to fall into the category of persons whose
depositions are precluded under Liberty Mutual and its progeny.  The seminal case concerning apex depositions
is Liberty Mutual Ins. Co. v. Superior Court, (1992) 10 Cal. App. 4th 1282.  In that case, the plaintiff had suffered
personal injuries on the job.  Liberty
Mutual was the workers’ compensation carrier. 
The plaintiff was suing Liberty Mutual for fraud and IIED concerning the
claims handling process.  The plaintiff
sought to depose the CEO of Liberty Mutual and cited, as a reason, the fact
that the CEO had been CC’d on correspondence. 
The trial court denied a motion for a protective order, and the Court of
Appeals reversed.  It held that a
deposition of the CEO was not appropriate unless the plaintiff showed the CEO
had unique and superior knowledge of the facts, and the discovery could not be
obtained by less intrusive means.  It
held that the “head of a large national corporation will generally not have
knowledge of a specific incident or case handled several levels down the
corporate pyramid.”
 
Defendant failed to show that it is
a large corporation, or that Yashar and/or Yard are apex persons in a large
organization such that they would not have knowledge of the workings of the
corporation.  Defendant contends Yashar
and Yard are “mere investors,” but this does not make them akin to the CEO of a
large insurance company being sued for claims handling.  If Yashar and Yard truly lack any substantive
knowledge, then their depositions will be very short, but they failed to show
that Plaintiff is not entitled to depose them. 

 
The motion to compel depositions is
granted.  Counsel are ordered to meet and
confer forthwith to agree on a date, time, and location for the depositions to
go forward.  
 
c.     Further
Responses to Discovery
Plaintiff contends Defendant’s
responses to discovery were evasive, incomplete, and included primarily
boilerplate objections.  Plaintiff
contends he attempted to meet and confer, but Defendant did not meaningfully respond,
such that this motion became necessary.  
 
Defendant, in opposition, argues
the motion should be denied because it was improperly filed as part of a
combined motion with the motion to compel depositions, and instead should have
been filed as three separate motions. 
Additionally, it contends Plaintiff failed to file a separate statement
in support of his motion.
 
The Court agrees that the motions
should have been filed separately.  Plaintiff’s
reply does not meaningfully address this issue. 
The Court notes that Plaintiff did, however, file a separate statement,
and the separate statement details each and every discovery item in dispute
between the parties; it is unclear why Defendant argued, in opposition to the
motion, that the motion was not supported by a separate statement.
 
The Court notes that the parties
have another discovery motion on calendar on 7/25/24.  The hearing on this motion is continued to
7/25/24, to be heard concurrently with the currently scheduled discovery
motion.  Plaintiff must pay the three
additional filing fees prior to the hearing if he wishes to have the motions
heard.  The parties must meet and confer
in good faith forthwith.  If Defendant
believes its responses are sufficient, it must file timely substantive
opposition to the motion pursuant to Code. 
Reply papers must also be filed pursuant to Code.  
If the parties resolve their
outstanding issues prior to 7/25/24, Plaintiff must use the online reservation
management system to take the motions off calendar.  
 
d.     Sanctions

The Court is not inclined to impose
sanctions at this time.  The issue of
sanctions will be revisited at the 7/25/24 hearing if the parties’ issues are
not resolved informally prior to that date. 

 
Plaintiff is ordered to give
notice.  
 
Parties who intend to submit
on this tentative must send an email to the court at gdcdepts27@lacourt.org indicating intention to submit on the tentative
as directed by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  If a party submits on
the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must identify
the party submitting on the tentative.  If
the parties do not submit on the tentative, they should arrange to appear
remotely.