 Case Number:  23LBCV00046    Hearing Date:   June 20, 2024    Dept:  S27 1.    
Background Facts
Plaintiff, Julio Contreras filed this action against Defendant, City of
Long Beach for damages arising out of an automobile accident that occurred on
7/10/22.  Plaintiff filed the complaint
on 1/09/23.  
 
2.    
Prior Hearing on Motion for Leave to Amend
On 10/12/23, the Court heard and denied Plaintiff’s motion for leave to
amend.  Plaintiff sought leave to amend
the complaint to add claims by two additional plaintiffs, Luis and Marco
Bonilla.  The Court ruled, in pertinent
part, as follows:
Plaintiff, when he served Defendant with his government tort claim,
also included the claims of two third parties, Luis and Marco Bonilla, both of
whom were also involved in the subject accident.  When Plaintiff filed his complaint, however,
he erroneously failed to include the Bonillas in the action.  Plaintiff concedes the statute of limitations
has run as to the Bonillas’ claims, but seeks leave to add them to his
complaint because the failure to include them was the result of his attorney’s
mistake or neglect.  
 
Plaintiff does not cite any on point authority permitting him to add
two previously un-named plaintiffs whose claims are barred by the statute of
limitations to the complaint.  The Court
has considered the various possible mechanisms to name the new plaintiffs, and
finds Plaintiff cannot do so.
…
The claims clearly do not relate back to the named plaintiff’s
claims.  Amendments naming a new party
plaintiff are permissible if there is no change in the claim being asserted:
e.g., amendments to reflect an assignment of the claim; or, on plaintiff's
death, to substitute their executor or administrator.  Plaintiffs who lack standing to sue on a
claim or cause of action may seek leave to amend their complaint to substitute
a plaintiff with standing to sue (the “real party in interest”). Such an
amendment is authorized under CCP § 473(a)(1), which allows amendments “by
adding or striking out the name of any party.” See Branick v. Downey Sav.
&Loan Ass'n (2006) 39 Cal.4th 235, 243. 
However, where the amendment adds a plaintiff whose claim is independent
of the claims previously asserted, the amendment does not “relate back” to the
original complaint. I.e., the plaintiff proposed to be substituted may not
“state facts which give rise to a wholly distinct and different legal
obligation against the defendant.”  Id.
at 243.
 
Plaintiff seeks to add wholly distinct claims by other plaintiffs, and
not to merely substitute the new plaintiffs’ claims for his own.  The proposed amended complaint, therefore,
does not relate back to the original complaint, and amendment is not proper
under §473(a).
…
While Plaintiff does not expressly mention §473(b), he does contend he
should be granted leave to amend because his attorney made a mistake or
neglected to name the other two plaintiffs when he filed the complaint.  §473(b) governs relief from attorney
errors.  Pursuant to Life Sav. Bank v.
Wilhelm (2000) 84 Cal.App.4th 174, 178, §473(b) does not provide a
mechanism for relief when the attorney error was failure to comply with the
applicable statute of limitations.  
            …
Plaintiff also argues relief should be granted pursuant to Gov Code
§946.6.  §946.6 permits a plaintiff whose
application for leave to file a late claim was denied to then file a petition,
with the Superior Court, for relief from failure to file a timely claim.  §946.6 does not have any application to this
case, because the proposed new plaintiffs did not file any application for
leave to file a late claim, and did not initiate this action by way of a
petition for relief.  If the proposed new
plaintiffs have any procedural mechanism to assert their claims, such as a
petition for relief, they are free to file any such petition.  They have failed, however, to show that
§946.6 permits them to proceed in this action by way of a motion for leave to
amend to add claims that are barred by the statute of limitations.  
 
3.    
Motion to Intervene
a.     Parties’ Positions
On 5/07/24, Plaintiff filed this motion to intervene.  The motion seeks an order permitting the
Bonillas to intervene in this action.  On
6/06/24, Defendant filed timely opposition to the motion.  Defendant contends the Bonillas do not meet
the elements for mandatory intervention, and should not be permitted
discretionary intervention because the case is on the eve of trial.  In the event the Court grants the motion,
Defendant asks for a six-month trial continuance to prepare for the newly-added
claims.
 
b.    
Law
Governing Intervention
Intervention is the procedure whereby someone not previously served as
a party to an action (or ordered joined as a party) may nevertheless become a
party. An intervention takes place when the court grants leave to a nonparty to
join the plaintiff in claiming what is sought by the complaint; or to unite
with the defendant in resisting the plaintiff's claims; or to demand anything
adverse to both parties.  CCP §387(b).  Intervention is either as of right or
permissive.
 
A nonparty has the right to intervene in litigation between others
where the nonparty claims an interest in the property or transaction involved
in the litigation, and is so situated that any judgment rendered in the
nonparty's absence “may impair or impede that person's ability to protect that
interest.” CCP § 387(d)(1)(B); Crestwood Behavioral Health, Inc. v. Lacy (2021)
70 Cal.App.5th 560, 572-573.  
 
If proper procedures are followed, the court has discretion to permit a
nonparty to intervene in litigation pending between others, provided:
•           The nonparty has a
direct and immediate interest in the litigation; and
•           The intervention will
not enlarge the issues in the case; and
•           The reasons for
intervention outweigh any opposition by the existing parties. CCP §387; Truck
Ins. Exch. v. Superior Court (1997) 60 Cal.App.4th 342, 346.  
 
The party seeking to intervene must have a direct and immediate
interest in the outcome of the litigation; i.e., he or she must stand to gain
or lose by direct operation of the judgment.  City & County of San Francisco v. State of
Calif. (2005) 128 Cal.App.4th 1030, 1037. 

 
Whether intervention is of right, or only permissive, the party seeking
to intervene must make “timely” application to the court.  CCP § 387(d)(1).  Timeliness of the motion to intervene is
determined by the totality of the circumstances, with a focus on three primary
factors: (a) the stage of the proceedings; (b) the prejudice to other parties
from the delay in seeking to intervene; and (c) the reason for the delay.
Prejudice to the existing parties from the delay is the most important
consideration in determining whether the motion is timely.  Crestwood Behavioral Health, Inc. v. Lacy
(2021) 70 Cal.App.5th 560, 574-576.  
 
c.    
Intervention
as a Matter of Right
As noted above, an intervention takes place when the court grants leave
to a nonparty to join the plaintiff in claiming what is sought by the
complaint; or to unite with the defendant in resisting the plaintiff's
claims; or to demand anything adverse to both parties.  CCP §387(b). 
A nonparty has the right to intervene in litigation between others where
the nonparty claims an interest in the property or transaction involved in
the litigation, and is so situated that any judgment rendered in the nonparty's
absence “may impair or impede that person's ability to protect that interest.”
CCP § 387(d)(1)(B).
 
The Bonillas simply do not meet the definition of interveners as a
matter of right detailed above.  They do
not seek to join the plaintiff in claiming what is sought by the complaint;
instead, they seek to bring their own independent claims for their own unique
damages.  And to the extent an automobile
accident is a “transaction,” their claims arise out of the same accident as
Plaintiff’s claims, but “any judgment rendered in [the Bonillas’] absence”
would not “impair or impede [the Bonillas’] ability to protect that
interest.  
 
d.    
Discretionary
Intervention
As noted above, discretionary intervention can only be permitted if
intervention will not enlarge the issues in the case.  Such is not the case here, as permitting the
Bonillas to assert their claims would clearly change the scope of litigation.
 
e.    
Timeliness
The motion is denied because the Bonillas failed to show that mandatory
or permissive intervention applies, as discussed above.  Additionally, the Court notes that their
motion was not timely made.  Plaintiff
first filed this action on 1/09/23.  This
motion is set to be heard almost a year and a half later.  
 
f.     
Final
Note
The Court notes that, while not mentioned in the opposition, it seems
granting the motion would be an act in futility.  CCP §387(f) and Timberidge Enterprises, Inc.
v. City of Santa Rosa (1978) 86 Cal.App.3d 873, 879-880 make clear that a
defendant has the right to challenge a complaint in intervention by filing a
demurrer.  If the Court were to permit
the Bonillas to intervene, Defendant would clearly demur on the ground that the
complaint in intervention is not timely, and the demurrer would be sustained without
leave to amend.  It is not in the
interest of justice to permit intervention, which would necessitate a
continuance of the currently scheduled FSC and trial dates, only to have the
complaint in intervention dismissed on demurrer.  
 
g.    
Conclusion
The motion for leave to intervene is denied because Plaintiff failed to
show mandatory or discretionary intervention is appropriate, because the motion
was not timely filed, and because the motion, if granted, would ultimately
result in dismissal of the complaint in intervention.  
 
Plaintiff is ordered to give notice. 

 
Parties who intend to submit
on this tentative must send an email to the court at gdcdepts27@lacourt.org indicating intention to submit on the tentative
as directed by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  If a party submits on
the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must identify
the party submitting on the tentative. If any party does not submit on the
tentative, the party should make arrangements to appear remotely at the hearing
on this matter.   