 Case Number:  24LBCV00161    Hearing Date:   June 20, 2024    Dept:  S27  
1.     Background
Facts
Plaintiff, Cecelia L. Wong filed
23LBSC00738 against Defendants, Leroy Stone and Beth Arnold on 7/07/23.  The small claims complaint alleges Defendants
violated the Tenant Protection Act by wrongfully evicting Plaintiff during Covid.    Plaintiff
filed proof of service of the summons and complaint on Arnold on 11/02/23.  Plaintiff has not, to date, filed proof of
service of the summons and complaint on Stone. 
Arnold has not filed an answer or other responsive pleading.  Plaintiff has repeatedly filed requests to
postpone trial date, all of which have been granted.
 
Plaintiff, Cecelia L. Wong filed
24LBCV00161 against Defendant, Larry Stone only.  Plaintiff’s complaint contains 20 causes of
action, all of which arise out of the landlord-tenant relationship.  Defendant filed an answer to the complaint on
4/18/24.  
 
2.     Motion
to Consolidate
Plaintiff moves to consolidate the
two actions.  The motion is denied without
prejudice for several reasons.  
 
First, the Court is concerned about
service of the moving papers.  There is
no proof of service of the moving papers on Arnold.  Arnold has not appeared in the small claims
case, but she has also not been defaulted or dismissed.  She would potentially be prejudiced if the
small claims case against her was consolidated with an unlimited civil case
against Stone.  Additionally, while
Plaintiff filed proof of service of the moving papers on Stone, she did so at a
mailing address in Hawaii.  Stone is now
represented by an attorney, and it is not clear whether the attorney has
received the moving papers.  
 
Second, the Court has reviewed the
docket for 23LBSC00738 and finds Plaintiff failed to file the notice of motion
in that case, as is required by CRC 3.350(a)(1)(C).   This
is of particular importance because, again, there is no proof of service of the
moving papers on Arnold.    
 
Third, the two cases have not been
deemed related and are not pending in the same department.  Local Rule 3.3(g)(1) requires cases to be
pending in the same department before being consolidated.  
 
Plaintiff is ordered to give
notice.  
 
Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must
send an email to the court at gdcdepts27@lacourt.org indicating intention to submit on the tentative
as directed by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  If a party submits on
the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must identify
the party submitting on the tentative.  If
the parties do not submit on the tentative, they should arrange to appear
remotely.