 Case Number:  23LBCV00951    Hearing Date:   June 20, 2024    Dept:  S27 1.     Background
Facts
Plaintiff, Marilyn Dwellingham
filed this action against Defendants, LB Property Management, Inc. and El
Capitan Homeowners Association for damages arising out of a leak in the common
areas of Plaintiff’s condominium building, which leak effectively shut down her
bathroom for many months.  
 
Plaintiff’s operative complaint is her
First Amended Complaint, which she filed on 8/15/23.  It includes causes of action for negligence,
IIED, and NIED.   
 
2.     Motion
to Conduct Financial Discovery
a.     Procedural
History
Plaintiff filed this motion to
conduct financial discovery on 4/02/24, setting it for hearing on
10/29/24.  On 4/19/24, the Court heard
Plaintiff’s ex parte application to advance the hearing on the motion so the
motion could be heard prior to trial. 
The Court granted the application and scheduled the motion for hearing
on 6/20/24.  Additionally, the Court
ordered the parties to meet and confer in an attempt to resolve the issues by
way of agreement that Defendant would have all financials ready if and when the
second phase of trial commences.  
 

Analysis

Civil Code §3295(c) permits the Court to enter an order allowing the
plaintiff to conduct pre-trial financial discovery if the plaintiff provides
evidence, by way of “appropriate affidavits,” that there is a substantial
probability she will prevail at the trial of her punitive damages claims.
 
Plaintiff supports her motion with her attorney’s declaration.  Counsel declares what facts are pled in the
operative complaint, and also declares what additional facts exist that would
support imposition of punitive damages. 
Defendant, in opposition to the motion, correctly notes that Plaintiff’s
attorney lacks personal knowledge of the facts attested to in her declaration,
and therefore there is no competent evidence with the moving papers to support
the relief requested.  Plaintiff appears
to concede as much in reply, and argues that the evidence submitted with the
reply papers is sufficient to support a claim for punitive damages.  A party moving for relief cannot submit
evidence for the first time in reply, as the opposing party has no opportunity
to challenge the evidence by way of opposition papers.  
 
Because the motion is not supported by admissible evidence, the motion
is denied.  
 
Plaintiff is ordered to give
notice.  
 
Parties who intend to submit
on this tentative must send an email to the court at gdcdepts27@lacourt.org indicating intention to submit on the tentative
as directed by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  If a party submits on
the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must identify
the party submitting on the tentative.  If
the parties do not submit on the tentative, they should arrange to appear
remotely.