 Case Number:  23LBCV02160    Hearing Date:   June 20, 2024    Dept:  S27 1.     Background
Facts
Plaintiff, Christopher Jon Chester
filed this action against Defendants, Swift Transportation Co. Inc. and John
Doe Driver for damages arising out of a minor automobile accident followed by a
road rage incident.  Plaintiff alleges
the two parties’ cars made minor contact that damaged his mirror, and that when
Plaintiff positioned his car in a manner requiring John Doe to stop his car,
John Doe became violent and pushed Plaintiff to the ground, then ran back to
his automobile and drove off.  John Doe
was employed as a security guard by Swift at the time of the incident.
 
Plaintiff’s complaint includes
causes of action for:
Assault and battery – John Doe
Negligent hiring, retention,
training, and supervision – Swift
Negligence – John Doe and Swift
Negligent entrustment – Swift
 
2.     Demurrer
a.     Legal
Standard on Demurrer
A demurrer is a pleading used to
test the legal sufficiency of other pleadings. It raises issues of law, not
fact, regarding the form or content of the opposing party’s pleading.  It is not the function of the demurrer to
challenge the truthfulness of the complaint; and for purpose of the ruling on
the demurrer, all facts pleaded in the complaint are assumed to be true,
however improbable they may be.
 
A demurrer can be used only to
challenge defects that appear on the face of the pleading under attack; or from
matters outside the pleading that are judicially noticeable. Blank v. Kirwan 39
Cal.3d 311 (1985). No other extrinsic evidence can be considered (i.e., no
“speaking demurrers”). A demurrer is brought under CCP § 430.10 [grounds], §
430.30 [as to any matter on its face or from which judicial notice may be
taken], and § 430.50(a) [can be taken to the entire complaint or any cause of
action within].  Specifically, a demurrer
may be brought per CCP § 430.10(e) if insufficient facts are stated to support
the cause of action asserted.  Per CCP
§430.10(a) a demurrer may be brought where the court has no jurisdiction of the
subject of the cause of action alleged in the pleading.  Furthermore, demurrer for uncertainty will be
sustained only where the complaint is so bad that the defendant cannot
reasonably respond.  CCP §
430.10(f).  
 
However, in construing the
allegations, the court is to give effect to specific factual allegations that
may modify or limit inconsistent general or conclusory allegations. Financial
Corporation of America v. Wilburn, 189 Cal.App.3rd 764, 769 (1987). And, if the
facts pled in the complaint are inconsistent with facts which are incorporated
by reference from exhibits attached to the complaint, the facts in the
incorporated exhibits control. Further, irrespective of the name or label given
to a cause of action by the plaintiff, a general demurrer must be overruled if
the facts as pled in the body of the complaint state some valid claim for
relief. Special demurrers are not allowed in limited jurisdiction courts. (CCP
§ 92(c).)
 
Leave to amend must be allowed
where there is a reasonable possibility of successful amendment. Goodman v.
Kennedy, 18 Cal.3d 335, 348 (1976). The burden is on the complainant to show
the Court that a pleading can be amended successfully. (Id.) 
 
Finally, CCP section 430.41
requires that “[b]efore filing a demurrer pursuant to this chapter, the
demurring party shall meet and confer in person or by telephone with the party
who filed the pleading that is subject to demurrer for the purpose of determining
whether an agreement can be reached that would resolve the objections to be
raised in the demurrer.” (CCP §430.41(a).) The parties are to meet and confer
at least five days before the date the responsive pleading is due. (CCP
§430.41(a)(2).) Thereafter, the demurring party shall file and serve a
declaration detailing their meet and confer efforts. (CCP §430.41(a)(3).)
 

Meet and Confer

Defense Counsel declares he and Plaintiff’s attorney met and conferred
telephonically, but were unable to resolve the issues presented by way of the
demurrer.  The meet and confer
requirement is therefore satisfied.  
 

Negligent hiring, training, and retention

Defendant demurs to the negligent
hiring, training, and retention cause of action, contending Plaintiff did not
plead facts showing Defendant knew its security guard was dangerous prior to
the incident at issue in this case.  
 
At ¶38, Plaintiff makes general
allegations that the security guard was unfit for his employment and that
Defendant knew he was unfit, as well as that he had a long history of criminal
activity and police had been dispatched on numerous occasions prior to the
incident.  There are, however, no facts
pled to support this allegation.  Neither
party briefs whether or to what extent a plaintiff must plead specific facts,
as opposed to mere conclusions, to support a claim for negligent hiring,
training, and retention.  
 
The Court researched the issue and
located the case of Doe v. Capital Cities (1996) 50 Cal.App.4th
1038, 1054, wherein the Court held (citations omitted):
The eighth cause of action is
labeled "Negligent Hiring, Training and/or Supervision." In essence,
plaintiff asserts that ABC's negligence in either hiring or supervising
Marshall resulted in the sexual assault and on that basis ABC can be held
liable.  California case law recognizes
the theory that an employer can be liable to a third person for negligently
hiring, supervising, or retaining an unfit employee. (citations.) Liability is
based upon the facts that the employer knew or should have known that hiring
the employee created a particular risk or hazard and that particular harm
materializes. (citations).  This is where
plaintiff's complaint flounders. 
 
Plaintiff alleged that ABC knew or
should have known that "Marshall engaged in the purchase and use of
serious, mind-altering illegal drugs, that defendant Marshall used his position
at ABC to gain sexual favors, and that use of a 'casting couch' is common
within the entertainment industry." 
Given the harm that plaintiff suffered--a brutal sexual assault after
having been surreptitiously drugged--the pleading allegations are insufficient
to allege a cause of action. ABC's knowledge that Marshall personally used
"serious mind-altering drugs" does not equate with knowledge that he
would surreptitiously use drugs to place a prospective employee into a
situation of helplessness before violently assaulting him. Nor does ABC's
knowledge that Marshall used his position "to gain sexual favors"
have material relevance to this matter. Use of the word "gain" is
consistent with the quid pro quo form of sexual harassment but that is not the
basis of plaintiff's claim. The "casting couch" allegation suffers
from a similar infirmity. That is, knowledge that Marshall used his position of
authority to extract or to coerce sexual favors is not knowledge that he would
first drug and then attack a potential employee. In the context of negligent
hiring, those are qualitatively different situations. In sum, the cornerstone
of a negligent hiring theory is the risk that the employee will act in a
certain way and the employee does act in that way. Plaintiff has failed to
allege those necessary facts.
 
Similarly here, because Plaintiff
alleges no facts in support of his conclusions, the Court finds the cause of
action is insufficiently pled.  The
demurrer is sustained.  Leave to amend is
granted if and only if Plaintiff can plead facts, as opposed to conclusions,
showing Defendant knew of the security guard’s lack of fitness for his job
prior to the incident.  The Court notes
that Plaintiff may not presently have those facts, in which case he should not
amend the complaint at this time, but should seek leave to amend the complaint
if and when he discovers such facts during the course of the action.  The Court will permit discovery into this
issue, and encourages the parties to stipulate to the filing of an amended complaint
if and when these facts come to light.  
 

Negligence

Both parties appear to agree that
the negligence cause of action sounds in vicarious liability, whereas the
negligent hiring/training/supervision/retention and negligent entrustment
causes of action sound in direct liability. 
Defendant correctly notes that the complaint is highly confusing in this
regard, because the cause of action for negligence contains numerous
allegations that go to direct liability, rather than vicarious liability.  The demurrer is sustained with leave to
amend.  Plaintiff must re-plead the
negligence cause of action in a way that clarifies that he is seeking relief on
a vicarious basis only in connection with the cause of action.
 

Negligent Entrustment

The negligent entrustment cause of
action suffers from the same defects as the negligent hiring, training,
supervision, and retention cause of action. 
There are no facts, as opposed to conclusions, pled to support the
allegation that Swift negligently entrusted its automobile to John Doe.  The demurrer is sustained with the same
conditional leave to amend detailed above.
 
3.     Motion
to Strike 
Defendant moves to strike
Plaintiff’s prayer for punitive damages and allegations relating to assault
pled against it.  The motion to strike is
moot because the claims upon which the motion is based are not currently
adequately pled, as detailed above.  
 
 
4.     Conclusion
The demurrer is sustained as set
forth fully above.  The motion to strike
is moot.  Plaintiff must file an amended
complaint within twenty days.  Defendant
must file a responsive pleading within the statutory time thereafter.  
 
5.     CMC
and OSC
The parties are reminded that there
is a CMC and OSC on calendar concurrently with the hearing on the above
demurrer and motion to strike.  The Court
asks Counsel to make arrangements to appear remotely at the CMC, OSC, and
hearing on the pleading challenge.