 Case Number:  23LBCV00974    Hearing Date:   June 20, 2024    Dept:  S27 1.    
Background
Facts
Plaintiffs, Jesus and Diana Renteria filed this action against
Defendants, Pinner Construction Co., Inc.., et al. on 6/06/23.  Plaintiffs’ FAC alleges the defendants, and
each of them, provided negligent drawings, plans, specifications, safety
instructions, and designs for Plaintiff to use in constructing a building.  As a result, the building Plaintiff was
working on collapsed, causing him to sustain grave injuries.  His wife sues for loss of consortium.  
 
Plaintiffs have added numerous doe defendants to the action, including
CH2M Hill Engineers, Inc., which it named as Doe One on 9/07/23.  Many defendants have pending cross-complaints
against the other defendants.  
 
2.    
Demurrer


Subject Cross-Complaint

Kern filed a cross-complaint on 7/26/23.  The cross-complaint is against various
entities, including CH2M.  It includes
causes of action for equitable indemnity, contribution and apportionment of
fault, and declaratory relief.  
 

Legal Standard

A demurrer is a pleading used to
test the legal sufficiency of other pleadings. It raises issues of law, not
fact, regarding the form or content of the opposing party’s pleading.  It is not the function of the demurrer to
challenge the truthfulness of the complaint; and for purpose of the ruling on
the demurrer, all facts pleaded in the complaint are assumed to be true,
however improbable they may be.
 
A demurrer can be used only to
challenge defects that appear on the face of the pleading under attack; or from
matters outside the pleading that are judicially noticeable. Blank v. Kirwan 39
Cal.3d 311 (1985). No other extrinsic evidence can be considered (i.e., no
“speaking demurrers”). A demurrer is brought under CCP § 430.10 [grounds], §
430.30 [as to any matter on its face or from which judicial notice may be
taken], and § 430.50(a) [can be taken to the entire complaint or any cause of
action within].  Specifically, a demurrer
may be brought per CCP § 430.10(e) if insufficient facts are stated to support
the cause of action asserted.  Per CCP
§430.10(a) a demurrer may be brought where the court has no jurisdiction of the
subject of the cause of action alleged in the pleading.  Furthermore, demurrer for uncertainty will be
sustained only where the complaint is so bad that the defendant cannot
reasonably respond.  CCP §
430.10(f).  
 
However, in construing the
allegations, the court is to give effect to specific factual allegations that
may modify or limit inconsistent general or conclusory allegations. Financial
Corporation of America v. Wilburn, 189 Cal.App.3rd 764, 769 (1987). And, if the
facts pled in the complaint are inconsistent with facts which are incorporated
by reference from exhibits attached to the complaint, the facts in the
incorporated exhibits control. Further, irrespective of the name or label given
to a cause of action by the plaintiff, a general demurrer must be overruled if
the facts as pled in the body of the complaint state some valid claim for
relief. Special demurrers are not allowed in limited jurisdiction courts. (CCP
§ 92(c).)
 
Leave to amend must be allowed
where there is a reasonable possibility of successful amendment. Goodman v.
Kennedy, 18 Cal.3d 335, 348 (1976). The burden is on the complainant to show
the Court that a pleading can be amended successfully. (Id.) 
 
Finally, CCP section 430.41
requires that “[b]efore filing a demurrer pursuant to this chapter, the
demurring party shall meet and confer in person or by telephone with the party
who filed the pleading that is subject to demurrer for the purpose of determining
whether an agreement can be reached that would resolve the objections to be
raised in the demurrer.” (CCP § 430.41(a).) The parties are to meet and confer
at least five days before the date the responsive pleading is due. (CCP §
430.41(a)(2).) Thereafter, the demurring party shall file and serve a
declaration detailing their meet and confer efforts. (CCP § 430.41(a)(3).)
 

Meet and Confer

Defense Counsel declares Counsel met and conferred extensively, but
were unable to come to agreement concerning the issues presented by way of the
demurrer.  The demurrer will therefore be
heard on its merits.  
 

Grounds for Demurrer

CH2M demurs to Kern’s cross-complaint on four grounds.  First, it contends Kern failed to plead any
specific facts against CH2M that would support a claim for equitable
indemnification.  Second, it contends
Kern failed to file a certificate of merit, and this failure is fatal to its
claims against CH2M.  Third, it contends
the cross-complaint for contribution and apportionment of fault is not
ripe.  Finally, it contends the cause of
action for declaratory relief fails to state a claim for various reasons, which
will be discussed below.
 

Specific Facts

CH2M demurred to Plaintiffs’ complaint. 
The Court ruled on the demurrer, in pertinent part, as follows:
Pursuant to Berkley v. Dowds (2007) 152 Cal.App.4th 518,
527, a plaintiff can plead negligence against a defendant in general
terms.  While the plaintiff cannot simply
allege “the defendant’s negligence caused the plaintiff injury,” substantial
detail is not required.  Id.  In this case, Plaintiff alleges the various
defendants negligently provided the subject drawings, plans, specifications,
safety instructions, and designs (negligence cause of action) and owned,
maintained, managed, and/or operated the subject premises (premises liability
cause of action).  At the pleading stage,
this is sufficient.  The parties can
resolve issues relating to the specifics of the claims through discovery.  The demurrer is overruled.  
 
CH2M’s demurrer to Kern’s cross-complaint mirrors its demurrer to
Plaintiffs’ complaint.  CH2M again argues
Kern failed to plead specific facts to support the conclusion that CH2M played
a role in Plaintiffs’ injuries. 
Specifically, CH2M argues, “Kern fails to satisfy the first element of
its claim for equitable indemnity as to CH2M Hill because Kern has not alleged
– and cannot allege – any facts to support that CH2M Hill is liable to
Plaintiffs.”  
 
The Court finds the cross-complaint mirrors the language in the
complaint, which the Court already ruled was sufficient.  The cross-complaint is essentially one for
negligence, seeking indemnification to the extent any other entity’s negligence
caused Plaintiffs’ damages.  CH2M has not
cited any case holding that, in the indemnification context, a more strict
pleading standard is applied than is applied in the main complaint; the
language in the cross-complaint is typical of cross-complaints for indemnification,
and issues relating to the defendants’ relative fault will be determined at
trial.  The demurrer on this ground is
overruled.
 

Certificate of Merit

Kern concedes it failed to file a certificate of merit with its
cross-complaint, and concedes this is fatal to its claim for equitable
indemnification against CH2M.  It
provides authority, however, for the position that the correct relief under the
circumstances is sustaining the demurrer with leave to amend and requiring a
certificate of merit.  See Price v. Dames
& Moore (2001) 92 Cal.App.4th 355, 357.  CH2M cites nothing to the contrary in
reply.  The demurrer is sustained with
leave to amend on this ground.
 

Contribution and Apportionment of Fault

CH2M argues a claim for apportionment of fault and contribution is only
ripe if and when there is a judgment in the main complaint.  Neither party cites a case directly on
point.  There is no case cited where a
court of appeals decided whether a trial court acted properly in dismissing a
claim or failing to dismiss a claim for apportionment of fault and/or
contribution from a cross-complaint.
 
The Court notes that these causes of action are routinely pled in
cross-complaints.  Indeed, CH2M filed a
cross-complaint on 6/03/24, and it includes a cause of action for “equitable
apportionment,” which appears to be the same thing as a claim for apportionment
of fault.  Notably, Judicial Council Form
PLD-PI-002 is a form cross-complaint for use in personal injury cases, and it
includes a cause of action for apportionment of fault.  
 
The demurrer is overruled.
 

Declaratory Relief

Kern’s cross-complaint for declaratory relief consists only of two
paragraphs.  The first paragraph
incorporates the prior allegations by reference.  The second paragraph reads:
Cross-complainant is informed and
believes, and thereupon alleges that an actual controversy exists between the
parties concerning their respective rights and duties because cross-complainant
contends and cross-defendants deny, that cross-defendant is responsible, in
whole or in part, for the plaintiff’s injuries and damages, if any, arising
from the occurrence described in plaintiff’s complaint.
 
The demurrer is sustained on two
grounds.  First, it is not clear what
declaration Kern is seeking.  Second, to
the extent Kern is merely seeking a declaration that the other cross-defendants
must indemnify it and/or contribute to Plaintiff’s damages, the cause of action
is duplicative and superfluous in light of the first two causes of action in
the cross-complaint.  Leave to amend is
granted if and only if Kern can cure both defects.  
 
3.    
Conclusion
CH2M’s demurrer is sustained with leave to amend as set forth fully
above.  Kern must file an amended
cross-complaint within twenty days.  CH2M
must file a responsive pleading within the statutory time thereafter.  
 
Any other cross-defendant who wishes to file a responsive pleading to
the amended cross-complaint may do so within the statutory time
thereafter.  Any cross-defendant who
answered the cross-complaint but does not timely respond to the amended
cross-complaint will have its answer to the cross-complaint deemed its answer
to the amended cross-complaint.   
 
CH2M is ordered to give notice.  
 
Parties who intend to submit
on this tentative must send an email to the court at gdcdepts27@lacourt.org indicating intention to submit on the tentative
as directed by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  If a party submits on
the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must identify
the party submitting on the tentative. If any party does not submit on the
tentative, the party should make arrangements to appear remotely at the hearing
on this matter.   
 