  Case Number:  23LBCP00091    Hearing Date:   June 20, 2024    Dept:  S27 1.     Prior
Hearing
The Court was originally scheduled
to hear this matter on 4/19/24.  Prior to
the hearing, the Court issued a 16-page tentative ruling addressing each of the
parties’ arguments.  The Court ultimately
adopted the tentative ruling as its final ruling.  The Court incorporates the 4/19/24 ruling
into this order by reference.  
 
The ruling included, in pertinent
part, the following findings and instructions:
Petitioner argued, before the
hearing officer, that the District violated his due process rights by
deliberating in a closed, rather than open (public) forum.  The hearing officer addressed and rejected
this contention at page 8, lines 2-6, but did not meaningfully discuss the
contention.  
 
Petitioner contends that Gov Code
§54957(b)(1) allows for closed sessions if the employee requests them, but he
contends he did NOT request a closed session, and therefore it was a violation
of his due process rights for the board to deliberate in a closed session.  LBUSD contends §§54957(a) and (b)(1)
permitted deliberation in a closed forum. 

 
These sections provide:
(a) This chapter shall not be
construed to prevent the legislative body of a local agency from holding closed
sessions with the Governor, Attorney General, district attorney, agency
counsel, sheriff, or chief of police, or their respective deputies, or a
security consultant or a security operations manager, on matters posing a
threat to the security of public buildings, a threat to the security of
essential public services, including water, drinking water, wastewater
treatment, natural gas service, and electric service, or a threat to the
public's right of access to public services or public facilities.
(b)(1) Subject to paragraph (2),
this chapter shall not be construed to prevent the legislative body of a local
agency from holding closed sessions during a regular or special meeting to
consider the appointment, employment, evaluation of performance, discipline, or
dismissal of a public employee or to hear complaints or charges brought against
the employee by another person or employee unless the employee requests a
public session.
(2) As a condition to holding a
closed session on specific complaints or charges brought against an employee by
another person or employee, the employee shall be given written notice of his
or her right to have the complaints or charges heard in an open session rather
than a closed session, which notice shall be delivered to the employee
personally or by mail at least 24 hours before the time for holding the
session. If notice is not given, any disciplinary or other action taken by the
legislative body against the employee based on the specific complaints or
charges in the closed session shall be null and void.
 
Subdivision (a), on its face, does
not apply.  There was no threat, as
defined in that section, that required the proceedings to take place in a
closed session.  Subdivision (b)(1) does
apply, and clearly permits a closed session, but the fact that the subdivision
specifically states, “unless the employee requests a public session” appears to
mean it’s up to the employee to have the proceedings be open or closed.  Especially when read in connection with
(b)(2), which specifically provides for 24 hours’ notice of the right to an
open, rather than closed, proceeding, the conclusion that the option was the
employee’s, not the employer’s, appears clear. 

 
The District cites various cases in
its opposition, but none are directly on point, as none considered a situation
where an employee asked for an open session and was denied the request.  The closest case to being on point is Kolter
v. Commission of Professional Competence of Los Angeles Unified School Dist.
(2009) 170 Cal.App.4th 1346, 1353, which was cited by the District
to support its conclusion that the District was not required to deliberate in
open session or to invite Petitioner into closed session to observe
deliberations.  
 
In Kolter, the school board held
TWO sessions prior to dismissing the employee. 
The board first held a closed session, where it deliberated on the issue
of whether or not to initiate the termination process.  Thereafter, the board issued the required
24-hour notice, and then convened a second time, with the employee present and
in an open session, to actually vote to terminate the employee.
 
The problem with Kolter is that the
proceedings in this case that were closed were the actual termination
proceedings, not proceedings concerning whether or not to initiate termination
proceedings.  The proceedings therefore
violated the Code, and, per the express language of the Code, the proceedings
are null and void.  
 
…
 
The final issue is the remedy to be
imposed.  Petitioner seeks reinstatement
of his employment plus back pay. 
Additionally, in the prayer portion of the petition, Petitioner seeks
attorneys’ fees, costs of suit, and punitive damages.  
 
Neither party meaningfully briefs
the appropriate relief in the event that a closed, rather than open, hearing
was held.  The Court is continuing the
hearing on this writ for six weeks, to Thursday, 5/30/24 at 8:30 a.m. in
Department S27.  Counsel must meet and
confer forthwith concerning the appropriate remedy in an attempt to avoid the
necessity of a further hearing. 
 
If Counsel are unable to come to
agreement concerning the appropriate remedy, then at least two weeks prior to
the hearing, each party must submit a brief concerning the sole issue of
remedy.  The briefs must be no more than
five pages each.  The parties must
provide on point authority concerning whether Petitioner is entitled to
reinstatement, back pay, costs, attorneys’ fees, and/or punitive damages.  
 
2.     Supplemental
Briefs
On 5/30/24, each party filed a
supplemental brief.  Petitioner’s brief
addressed the remedies to be imposed, as Petitioner was ordered to do.  Respondent’s brief does not address
remedies.  Instead, Respondent’s brief
contends the prior order is in error, and asks the Court to deny the
petition.  
 
Because writs of mandate are
complicated and technical, the Court has considered Respondent’s supplemental
brief, despite the fact that it did not address the issue presented by the
Court in its prior ruling.  Respondent
relies primarily on two cases in its supplemental brief, neither of which were
cited in the original opposition papers. 
The cases are Bollinger v. San Diego Civil Services Commission (1999) 71
Cal.App.4th 568 and Ricasa v. Office of Administrative Hearings
(2018) 31 Cal.App.5th 262, 278. 

 
In Bollinger, the Court considered
a situation where there was a public evidentiary hearing, but then the
commission deliberated in private to determine the penalty to be assessed.  The trial court granted the petitioner’s
application for writ of mandate, finding the proceedings were required to be
open.  The court of appeals reversed,
holding that the evidentiary portion of the hearing was required to be open,
but that the deliberations were permitted to be closed.
 
In Ricasa, the employee pleaded
guilty to various charges, and the board ultimately deliberated to determine
whether the guilty plea supported termination. 
The employee argued the deliberations were required to be public, and
sought a writ of mandate.  The court of
appeals held that the deliberations were permitted to be closed because they
did not amount to an evidentiary hearing, but instead to a discussion of
whether the guilty plea, which was an evidentiary admission, supported
termination.
 
Thus, when Bollinger and Ricasa are
read together, they lead to the conclusion that proceedings weighing evidence
must be open, but proceedings to deliberate on the actions to be taken in light
of the evidence can be closed. 
Respondent herein establishes that Petitioner was given the opportunity
to be heard concerning the charges against him, and only the deliberations were
closed.  
 
The Court therefore reverses its
prior tentative ruling and denies the petition for writ of mandate.  
 
Petitioner is ordered to give
notice.  
 
Parties who intend to submit
on this tentative must send an email to the court at gdcdepts27@lacourt.org indicating intention to submit on the tentative
as directed by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If
the department does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting
on the tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be
placed off calendar.  If a party
submits on the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and
must identify the party submitting on the tentative. If any party does not
submit on the tentative, the party should make arrangements to appear remotely
at the hearing on this matter.   