 Case Number:  23LBCV01237    Hearing Date:   June 20, 2024    Dept:  S27 1.     Background
Facts
Plaintiff, Miguel Echevarria filed
this action against Defendant, Platinum Global Entertainment, Inc. on 6/30/23
for commercial unlawful detainer.  The
case proceeded to a bench trial, which resulted in a judgment in favor of Defendant;
the judgment was entered on 10/06/23.  
 
2.     Motion
for Attorneys’ Fees
Defendant seeks to recover its
attorneys’ fees expended in defense of this action.  Defendant establishes the parties’ lease
agreement contains an attorneys’ fees provision (§19.16), such that recovery of
attorneys’ fees is proper under Civil Code §1717 and CCP §1032(b).  
 
Defense Counsel declares the total
fees incurred in defense of the action are in the amount of $3150.  Counsel declares he attached a copy of the
bill for the case as an exhibit, but there are no exhibits to the declaration.  Despite the lack of exhibits, the Court finds
the declaration is sufficient prima facie evidence that the fees were incurred,
and finds the amount reasonable.  In
light of the lack of timely opposition to the motion, the Court grants the
motion in full and awards attorneys’ fees in the amount of $3150.
 
Defendant also appears to be
seeking to recover $439.50 in costs by way of this motion.  Defendant filed a memorandum of costs on
10/16/23, pursuant to which it seeks to recover $474.29 in costs.  All costs must be recovered by way of a
memorandum of costs; there is no authority permitting recovery of costs by way
of noticed motion.  Thus, to the extent
the request for costs is made in the motion, it is denied; the Court is making
no ruling concerning the memorandum of costs by way of this order.
Defendant is ordered to give
notice.  
 
Parties who intend to submit
on this tentative must send an email to the court at gdcdepts27@lacourt.org indicating intention to submit on the tentative
as directed by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  If a party submits on
the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must identify
the party submitting on the tentative.  If
the parties do not submit on the tentative, they should arrange to appear
remotely.