 Case Number:  22STCV24609    Hearing Date:   July 16, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


July
  16, 2024




CASE NUMBER:


22STCV24609 




MOTIONS:  


Motion
  to Reopen Discovery




MOVING PARTY:


Plaintiff Carlos Vitro 




OPPOSING PARTY:


Defendant
  Ralphs Grocery Company   



 
 
BACKGROUND
 
            On July 29, 2022, Plaintiff
Carlos Vitro (“Plaintiff”) filed a complaint against Defendant Ralphs Grocery
Company (“Defendant”) for injuries related to a slip and fall. Trial was
initially set for January 26, 2024. The complaint was filed by attorneys from
West Coast Trial Lawyers, APLC.
 
            Defendant filed an answer on October
6, 2022. 
 
            On October 31, 2023, pursuant to
stipulation, the Court continued trial and all related deadlines to May 29,
2024.
 
            A notice of change of handling
attorney was filed on February 6, 2024, changing attorneys within the same firm
of West Coast Trial Lawyers, APLC.
 
            On March 20, 2024, Plaintiff filed a
substitution of attorney, replacing R Gilland Jones with Dimitri Hurt. The
substitution was signed by plaintiff and current counsel on February 22, 2024.
 
            On May 3, 2024, a motion to relieve
Plaintiff’s counsel was determined to be moot based on the Substitution of
Attorney. (Min. Order, 5/3/24.) 
 
            On May 10, 2024, the Court granted in
part Plaintiff’s ex parte application and continued trial to August 1, 2024.
All discovery and pre-trial motion cut off dates were associated with the
previous trial date (5/29/24). (Min. Order, 5/10/24.) 
 
            On June 5, 2024, Plaintiff filed the
instant motion to reopen discovery. Defendant opposes. No reply has been filed.

 
 
LEGAL
STANDARD 
 
“On motion of any party, the court may grant leave to
complete discovery proceedings, or to have a motion concerning discovery heard,
closer to the initial trial date, or to reopen discovery after a new trial date
has been set.¿ This motion shall be accompanied by a meet and confer
declaration under Section 2016.040.”¿ (Code Civ. Proc., section 2024.050, subd.
(a).)¿ 
¿¿ 
“In exercising its discretion to grant or deny this motion,
the court shall take into consideration any matter relevant to the leave
requested, including, but not limited to, the following: (1) The necessity and
the reasons for the discovery.¿ (2) The diligence or lack of diligence of the
party seeking the discovery or the hearing of a discovery motion, and the
reasons that the discovery was not completed or that the discovery motion was
not heard earlier.¿ (3) Any likelihood that permitting the discovery or hearing
the discovery motion will prevent the case from going to trial on the date set,
or otherwise interfere with the trial calendar, or result in prejudice to any
other party.¿ (4) The length of time that has elapsed between any date
previously set, and the date presently set, for the trial of the action.”¿
(Code Civ. Proc., section 2024.050, subd. (b)(1)-(4).)¿¿¿ 
 
“The court shall impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7
(commencing with Section 2023.010) against any party, person, or attorney who
unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to extend or to reopen discovery,
unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial
justification or that other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction
unjust.”¿ (Code Civ. Proc., section 2024.050, subd. (c).)¿¿¿ 
 
MEET
AND CONFER
 
The Declaration of Dmitri Hurt, Plaintiff’s counsel, states the
following: “Plaintiff has complied with the meet and confer requirement in that
on May 13, 2024 I sent a meet and confer letter/email to counsel for Defendant,
requesting that Defendant stipulate to reopening discovery. Defendant refused
to stipulate to reopening discovery.” (Hurt Decl. ¶ 9.) 
 
DISCUSSION
 
Here, Plaintiff contends that his new counsel, Dmitri Hurt, who was
substituted into this case on March 20, 2024, only took possession of
Plaintiff’s file from previous counsel on May 3, 2024.[1]
(Hurt Decl. ¶ 4.) Plaintiff’s counsel contends that upon reviewing the file, he
discovered that minimal discovery had taken place and no depositions were
taken. (Id. ¶ 6.)
 
Plaintiff seeks to reopen discovery “including” to depose Defendant’s
PMK, and request “various document productions.” (Motion, 4.) Plaintiff argues
new counsel has acted diligently but also states that trial will need to be
continued for an additional 6 months if this motion is granted. 
 
In opposition, Defendant argues the motion should be denied since
trial is set for August 1, 2024. Additionally, Defendant points out that this
motion was only filed on June 5, 2024, when Plaintiff’s counsel was substituted
in March.  
 
Plaintiff’s counsel has failed to explain why he did not obtain
Plaintiff’s case file until May 3, 2024, when he was substituted on March 20,
2024. This delay undermines Plaintiff’s counsel’s claim that he has acted
diligently since taking over this case. Moreover, no information is provided
regarding prior counsel’s diligence or lack thereof in seeking discovery from
October 6, 2022 through March 20, 2024. Current counsel simply states that
discovery was incomplete “due to previous counsel’s oversight and administrative
challenges in transitioning counsel.” (Motion at p. 5.) However, no specificity
is provided regarding prior counsel’s efforts and no declaration of prior counsel
is provided. Counsel further does not explain his failure to timely and
properly seek relief, and further does not reply to any of Defendant’s
arguments. Moreover, reopening discovery would likely prevent this case from
going to trial as scheduled, and Defendant asserts prejudice based on the
retention and designation of expert witnesses and readiness for trial.
(Opposition at p. 7.) 
 
Accordingly, the motion is denied.
 
CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
 
Accordingly, Plaintiff’s
motion to reopen discovery is DENIED. 
 
Plaintiff to provide notice and file a proof of service of such. 


