 Case Number:  22STCV39573    Hearing Date:   July 16, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


July
  16, 2024




CASE NUMBER:


22STCV39573




MOTIONS:  


Motion
  to be Relieved as Counsel




MOVING PARTY:


Plaintiff Ryan Caldwell’s Counsel




OPPOSING PARTY:


None



 
BACKGROUND
 
            Plaintiff
Ryan Caldwell’s (Plaintiff) counsel of
record, Khashayar Eshraghi (Counsel), moves to be relieved as counsel for Plaintiff.
Counsel contends relief is necessary because there has been a breakdown in the attorney-client
relationship. 
 
            No
opposition has been filed for this motion. 
 
LEGAL
STANDARD
 
To be granted relief as counsel, counsel must comply with California
Rules of Court (CRC) 3.1362. Even where grounds for termination exist,
attorneys seeking to withdraw must comply with the procedures set forth in
California Rule of Professional Conduct (CRPC) 3.700 and are subject to
discipline for failure to do so. CRPC 3.700(B) lists various grounds for
mandatory withdrawal. 
 
An attorney's right to terminate the attorney-client relationship and
withdraw from a case is not absolute. (See Vann v. Shilleh (1975) 54
Cal.App.3d 192, 197; People v. Prince (1968) 268 Cal.App.2d 398.) The
decision whether to grant or deny an application for withdrawal is within the
court's discretion, and it does not abuse that discretion by denying the
application on the ground that the attorney's withdrawal would work injustice
upon a third party. (Hodcarriers, Bldg. and Common Laborers Local Union No.
89 v. Miller (1966) 243 Cal.App.2d 391.)
 
The rules have been liberally construed to protect clients. (Vann
v. Shilleh, supra, 54 Cal.App.3d 192.) An attorney, either with client's
consent or court's approval, may withdraw from a case when withdrawal can be
accomplished without undue prejudice to client's interests; however, an
attorney “shall not withdraw from employment until the member has taken
reasonable steps to avoid reasonably foreseeable prejudice to the rights of the
client, including giving due notice to the client, allowing time for employment
of other counsel, complying with rule 3-700(D), and complying with applicable
laws and rules.” (CRPC 3.700(A)(2).) A lawyer violates his or her ethical
mandate by abandoning a client (Pineda v. State Bar (1989) 49 Cal.3d
753, 758 759), or by withdrawing at a critical point and thereby prejudicing
the client’s case. (CRPC 3.700(A)(2); Vann v. Shilleh, supra.)
 
 
DISCUSSION
 
            Counsel has filed forms MC-051 and
MC-052 and has lodged with the Court a copy of the proposed order on form
MC-053 as required.  (Cal Rules of Court,
rule 3.1362.)  Counsel states the instant
motion is filed for the following reason: “This motion is based upon the
grounds that there has been an irremediable breakdown in the attorney-client
relationship that stands in the way of effective representation.” (MC-052.) 
 
            Counsel has provided information for
all future proceedings in this case. 
 
            Additionally, Counsel has been
unable to confirm Plaintiff’s address despite mailing the motion papers to
Plaintiff’s last known address, return receipt requested, calling Plaintiff’s
last known telephone number or numbers, attempting to contact Plaintiff’s
emergency contact, conducting a TLO search, and hiring a private investigator. 
 
            However, the declaration in support
states that Plaintiff was served by mail. (MC-052, item 3a(2).) This conflicts
with the proof of service filed on July 8, 2024, showing that Plaintiff was
served personally. Counsel provides no proof of service by mail. Additionally,
the personal proof of service states that Plaintiff was served on July 1,
2024—10 court days before this hearing. Code of Civil Procedure section 1005
requires “written notice” of a motion including the date, time and location of
the hearing on a motion. A moving party’s failure to serve the notice of motion
and moving papers on a non-moving party violates the basic principles of
procedural due process under the federal and state constitutions – notice and
an opportunity to be heard.¿ (Logan v. Zimmerman Brush Co. (1982) 455
U.S. 422, 428 [minimum due process requires notice and opportunity for hearing
appropriate to the nature of the case]; Horn v. County of Ventura (1979)
24 Cal.3d 605, 612 [due process principles require reasonable notice and
opportunity to be heard].) Under Code of Civil Procedure section 1005(b),
moving papers must be served and filed at least 16 court days before the
hearing.
 
            Therefore, because Counsel did not
provide the minimum notice period, the motion to be relieved is denied on
procedural grounds. 
 
            Additionally, as stated in the
previous minute order, the proposed order does not contain Plaintiff’s full zip
code. (See Min. Order, 5/29/24.) Counsel must correct the zip code in a
subsequent motion. Also, the service indicated in MC-052, item 3 must accurately
reflect the type of service in the proof of service. 
 
 
Accordingly, the Court DENIES the motion to relieve
counsel.  
 
Counsel shall provide notice of the Court’s ruling and file
proofs of service of such. 
 
 
 
 
 