  Case Number:  19STCV35151    Hearing Date:   November 26, 2024    Dept:  28 Having
considered the moving, opposition, and reply papers, the Court rules as
follows. 
BACKGROUND 
On
October 2, 2019, Plaintiffs Amirabbas Rahimi Khoshavaz and Maryam Gharani (“Gharani”)
(collectively, “Plaintiffs”) filed this action against Defendants Uber
Technologies, Inc. (“Uber”), Rasier, LLC (“Rasier”), Rasier-CA, LLC
(“Rasier-CA”), IPO Painter (“Painter”), and Does 1-25 for negligence,
negligence per se, and loss of consortium. 
On
November 6, 2019, Plaintiffs amended the complaint to include Defendant Chris
Solidum as Doe 1. 
Also
on November 6, 2019, Plaintiffs filed a first amended complaint against
Defendants Uber, Rasier, Rasier-CA, Painter, Chris Solidum (“Chris Solidum”),
Oberly Solidum, and Does 1-25 for negligence and loss of consortium. 
On
January 10, 2020, Painter filed an answer. On January 29, 2020, Uber,
Rasier-CA, and Rasier filed answers. 
On
June 29, 2020, Chris Solidum filed an answer. On July 29, 2020, Chris Solidum
filed a cross-complaint against Cross-Defendants Painter and Roes 1-10 for
indemnification, apportionment of fault, and declaratory relief.  On August 28, 2020, Painter filed an answer. 
On
March 6, 2023, the Court granted Chris Solidum’s motion for terminating
sanctions and dismissed Gharani with prejudice. 
On
March 10, 2023, the Court granted Plaintiffs’ ex parte application to stay the
case pending Gharani’s appeal. 
On
July 19, 2023, the Court granted Plaintiffs’ counsel’s motion to be relieved as
counsel for Gharani. 
On
January 23, 2024, the law firm Bremer
Whyte Brown & O'Meara, LLP, filed a notice of association of counsel
stating that the firm was associating into the case with Anne Gritzer of the
law firm Edlin Gallagher Huie & Blum as counsel of record for Chris
Solidum. 
On
March 4, 2024, the Court of Appeal dismissed Gharani’s appeal and issued the
remittitur. 
On April
18, 2024, the Court granted the motion of Michael E. Gallagher and Anne C.
Gritzer to be relieved as counsel for Chris Solidum. 
Also
on April 18, 2024, the Court lifted the stay pending appeal. 
On
September 30, 2024, James River Insurance Company (“James River”) filed a
motion for leave to file a complaint in intervention.  The motion was set for hearing on November
26, 2024.  On November 13, 2024,
Plaintiff filed an opposition.  On
November 18, 2024, James River filed a reply. 
          Trial
is currently scheduled for January 23, 2025. 
REQUESTS 
James
River asks the Court for leave to intervene on behalf of Chris Solidum, its
insured.
Plaintiff asks the Court to deny the motion. 
LEGAL STANDARD 
Code
of Civil Procedure section 387 provides in part: 
“(c) A nonparty shall petition the court for leave to
intervene by noticed motion or ex parte application. The petition shall include
a copy of the proposed complaint in intervention or answer in intervention and
set forth the grounds upon which intervention rests. 
“(d) (1) The court shall, upon timely application,
permit a nonparty to intervene in the action or proceeding if either of the
following conditions is satisfied: 
“(A) A provision of law confers an unconditional right
to intervene. 
“(B) The person seeking intervention claims an
interest relating to the property or transaction that is the subject of the
action and that person is so situated that the disposition of the action may
impair or impede that person’s ability to protect that interest, unless that
person’s interest is adequately represented by one or more of the existing
parties. 
“(2) The court may, upon timely application, permit a
nonparty to intervene in the action or proceeding if the person has an interest
in the matter in litigation, or in the success of either of the parties, or an
interest against both. 
“(e) If leave to intervene is granted by the court,
the intervenor shall do both of the following: 
“(1) Separately file the complaint in intervention,
answer in intervention, or both. 
“(2) Serve a copy of the order, or notice of the
court’s decision or order, granting leave to intervene and the pleadings in
intervention as follows: 
“(A) A party to the action or proceeding who has not
yet appeared shall be served in the same manner for service of summons pursuant
to Article 3 (commencing with Section 415.10) of Chapter 4 of Title 5 of Part
2. 
“(B) A party who has appeared in the action or
proceeding, whether represented by an attorney or not represented by an
attorney, shall be served in the same manner for service of summons pursuant to
Article 3 (commencing with Section 415.10) of Chapter 4 of Title 5 of Part 2,
or in the manner provided by Chapter 5 (commencing with Section 1010) of Title
14 of Part 2.” 
(Code
Civ. Proc., § 387, subds. (c), (d), (e).)
DISCUSSION 
Chris
Solidum is James River’s insured.  James
River asserts that it has attempted to contact and communicate Chris Solidum, without
success, and may be obligated to pay any judgment against Chris Solidum.  Therefore, according to James River, it has
the right to intervene to protect its own interests.  James River has submitted a proposed complaint-in-intervention. 
Plaintiff
opposes the motion, arguing it is untimely because James River learned on March
19, 2024 that Chris Solidum refused to sign a substitution of attorney form but
did not move to intervene until September 30, 2024.  Plaintiff also argues that “the five year
statutory deadline for bringing this case to trial is rapidly approaching in
January.”  (Opposition p. 3.)
 The motion
is timely.  James River submitted its
counsel’s declaration stating that, despite efforts to locate Chris Solidum, he
“can no longer be reached, located and communicated to about these claims.”  The insurer reasonably attempted to contact
its insured and, when those attempts were unsuccessful, moved to intervene.  In addition, the case was stayed for
approximately one year due to Gharani’s appeal, extending the time to bring the
case to trial. 
 Plaintiff also argues that James River’s
interests are adequately represented, making intervention unnecessary.  Plaintiff does not, however, explain which
party or parties are representing James River’s interests or why this
representation is adequate. 
Last,
Plaintiff contends that Chris Solidum has cooperated with James River “throughout
the litigation process” (Opposition p. 5), making intervention unnecessary.  But Plaintiff has provided no evidence refuting
James River’s assertion that its efforts to contact and communicate with Chris
Solidum have been unsuccessful. 
  The Court grants the motion. 
CONCLUSION
 The
Court GRANTS James River Insurance Company’s motion for leave to intervene.  The Court ORDERS James River Insurance Company to file a
complaint-in-intervention within 15 days of the hearing on this motion and to
comply with the service requirements of Code of Civil Procedure section 387,
subdivision (e). 
Moving
party is ordered to give notice of this ruling. 
Moving
party is ordered to file the proof of service of this ruling with the Court
within five days.