 Case Number:  22STCV33306    Hearing Date:   September 10, 2024    Dept:  17 Superior
Court of California
County
of Los Angeles
 
DEPARTMENT 17
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 



MARTHA
  GONZALES  
                           
         vs.
 
DOE
  UNIIFED SCHOOL DISTRICT 
 


 Case No.: 
  22STCV33306 
 
 
 
 Hearing
  Date:  September 10, 2024



 
Plaintiff’s
motion to compel CTC’s compliance with her subpoena for business records is
GRANTED IN PART, DENIED IN PART consistent with the ruling set forth below.
 
On
10/12/2022, Plaintiff Martha Gonzalez (Plaintiff) filed a suit against Doe Unified
School District and Doe 1. On 7/24/2024, Plaintiff filed a second amended
complaint (SAC) alleging: (1) general negligence; (2) negligent supervision of
a minor; (3) negligent hiring, retention, and supervision of an unfit employee;
(4) negligent failure to warn, train, or educate; and (5) negligent
misrepresentation.  
 
On 6/28/2024,
Plaintiff moved to compel California Commission for Teacher’s Credentialing
(CTC)’s compliance with her subpoena for business records. 
 
Discussion 
 
            Plaintiff
argues that CTC must be compelled to comply with Plaintiff’s Deposition
Subpoena because CTC responded by “providing meritless and boilerplate
objections, refusing to produce all relevant and responsive documents, and
further refusing to produce a privilege log identifying the withheld documents
and information.” (Motion, 1: 7-8.) 
 
            In
opposition, CTC contends that the 82 pages produced to-date constitute all
responsive materials that it can produce:
 
Most of the
potentially responsive records CTC did not produce were prepared by third
parties, and thus CTC cannot authenticate them. ([Yee Decl.] ¶4.) The other
records are exempt from disclosure under the deliberative process privilege,
and compelling production of CTC’s investigative reports and deliberations would
have a chilling effect on CTC’s disciplinary functions
 
(Opp., 8:
5-9.) 
 
After review,
the Court disagrees in part and agrees in part. 
 
First, CTC
contends that Plaintiff cannot compel it to produce documents which are not CTC
business records. 
 
However, in
all cases, “it is not necessary that the witness called to present foundational
facts have personal knowledge of every transaction; he need only be familiar
with the procedures followed.” (Conservatorship of S.A. (2018) 25
Cal.App.5th 438, 449 [citing Jazayeri v. Mao (2009) 174 Cal.App.4th 301,
322].) As such, the Court agrees with Plaintiff that it is improper for the CTC
to withhold non-privileged records that it can authenticate. Such
records necessarily include all documents prepared by CTC employees that derive
from documents prepared by third parties. These documents, specifically, are
not shielded from disclosure by section 1561 of the Evidence Code.
 
Further, the
CTC contends that it cannot corroborate that the withheld documents were
created in the ordinary course of business at or near the time of the event.
However, the Court agrees with Plaintiff’s explanation as to why CTC’s argument
is unpersuasive:
 
The Education
Code mandates that school districts report to the CTC, and that the CTC use the
information provided by school districts to ascertain "the moral
character… of the holder of a credential or an applicant for a credential or
the renewal of a credential…” (Ed. Code, §§ 44210-44239, 44341, subd. (a)(1),
44030.5, subd. (a) [requiring superintendents to report to the CTC all changes
in employment status of credential holders due to misconduct].) The CTC keeps
record of its credentialing decisions in the normal course of business. All
credentialing decisions made in the normal course of CTC business, by statute,
must rely on communications and documents provided by third-parties, including
school districts. The CTC has a substantial interest in the accuracy of those third-party
records because the CTC’s corresponding reports, documents, and decisions are
only as reliable as the third-party records upon which they are based. The
nature of the withheld documents, given that the CTC created records that
directly relate to those documents, creates a practical reality which warrants
treating the withheld documents as business records of the CTC. Therefore, if
the CTC can authenticate its own records prepared in reliance on the withheld
third-party records, then it can do the same for those third-party records.
 
(Motion, 12:
5-18.) 
 
Second, CTC
contends that Plaintiff has not established good cause for the requested
documents. As part of this, CTC contends that Plaintiff has not shown that the
discovery could not be obtained from the LAUSD, or some other party to the
action. However, Plaintiff argues that “Due to the passage of time, the CTC is
the only entity that holds these essential records. Defendant LAUSD does not
have the CTC’s records, and the records are not publicly available. Plaintiff
thus has no other way to review these records and investigate her claims.”
(Motion, 7: 13-15.)  Accordingly, the
Court finds good cause exists to seek production by CTC of these documents. 
 
The Court
also declines to find that the Official Informational Privilege applies here.
The official
information privilege only applies to “official information,” which is defined
as “information acquired in confidence by a public employee in the course of
his or her duty and not open, or officially disclosed, to the public prior to
the time the claim of privilege is made.” (Evid. Code, § 1040, subd. (a).) Said
information can only be withheld if:
 
(1)  Disclosure
is forbidden by an act of the Congress of the United States or a statute of
this state.
 
(2)  Disclosure
of the information is against the public interest because there is a necessity
for preserving the confidentiality of the information that outweighs the
necessity for disclosure in the interest of justice; but no privilege may be
claimed under this paragraph if any person authorized to do so has consented
that the information be disclosed in the proceeding. In determining whether
disclosure of the information is against the public interest, the interest of
the public entity as a party in the outcome of the proceeding may not be
considered.
 
(Evid. Code, § 1040, subds.
(b)(1)-(2).)
 
            Here,
even accepting that the withheld documents contain “official information,” CTC
has not shown that the CTC’s interest in confidentiality “clearly outweigh[s]”
the interests of an individual litigant seeking information that is essential
to her case.
 
However, the
Court finds that certain records may be protected by the Deliberative Process
privilege, as contended by CTC. 
 
More
specifically, Plaintiff is seeking all documents related to CTC’s “decisions .
. . to approve, reject, suspend, and/or revoke [Chapel’s] credential.” (Yee
Decl., Exh. A.) 
 
Suspension
and revocation decisions are made in closed session, and the deliberations are
not subject to public disclosure. (See, Education Code, §§44230, 44245,44248,
Gov. Code, § 6254, subdivision (f); see also Civil Code section 1798.24.)
However, withholding “purely factual, investigative” documents is only proper
upon an additional showing that the requests are “actually… related to the
process by which policies are formulated” or “inextricably intertwined with
policy-making processes.” (See Times Mirror Co v. Superior Court (1992)
53 Cal.3d at 1342 [emphasis added]).  
 
As such, CTC
is only entitled to protect requests which are “actually… related to the
process by which policies are formulated” or “inextricably intertwined with
policy-making processes.” (Id.) However, it is not entitled to withhold
purely factual, investigative matters.
 
            Taken
together, the Court finds that CTC must comply with the majority of Plaintiff’s
Subpoena requests. However, the Court finds that CTC need not produce documents
which it cannot authenticate, and those documents which are “actually… related
to the process by which policies are formulated” or “inextricably intertwined
with policy-making processes.” (Times Mirror Co., supra, 53
Cal.3d at p. 1342.) 
            
            Based
on the foregoing, Plaintiff’s motion to compel CTC’s compliance with her
subpoena for business records is granted in part, denied in part, consistent
with the ruling set forth above. 
 
 
 
It is so ordered. 
 
Dated:  September   
, 2024
                                                                                                                                                           
   Hon. Jon R.
Takasugi
   Judge of the
Superior Court
 
 
 
Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must
send an email to the court at smcdept17@lacourt.org
by 4 p.m. the day prior as directed by the instructions provided on the court
website at www.lacourt.org.  If a party submits
on the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must
identify the party submitting on the tentative. 
If all parties to a motion submit, the court will adopt this
tentative as the final order.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  For more information, please contact the court clerk at (213)
633-0517.  
 
 