 Case Number:  2STCP02029    Hearing Date:   September 10, 2024    Dept:  17 Superior
Court of California
County of Los Angeles
 
DEPARTMENT
17
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



JORDAN
  ALAIMO, individually and derivatively on behalf of APEX GAMING, LLC, and
  ATLAS WORLD TRADING LLC 
  
         vs.
 
REICHMAN
  & ASSOCIATES, P.C.    

 


 Case No.: 
  24STCP02029
 
 
 
 Hearing
  Date:  September 10, 2024




 
Defendant’s
motion to enforce the Deposition Subpoena for Production of Business Records in
Action Pending Outside California against Defendant Reichman & Associates,
P.C. is GRANTED. Compliance is ordered within 20 days.  Reichman is sanctioned $700 payable within 30
days.
 
On 6/21/2024,
Petitioner Jordan Alaimo, individually and derivatively on behalf of APEX
Gaming, LLC and Atlas World Trading, LLC, (Petitioner) filed suit against
Reichman & Associates, P.C. (Reichman or Respondent), seeking enforcement
of nonparty subpoena for the production of business records.
 
On 7/12/2024,
Petitioner moved to enforce the Deposition Subpoena for Production of Business
Records in Action Pending Outside California against Defendant Reichman &
Associates, P.C (Reichman).
 
Discussion 
 
            Petitioner
argues that an order is necessary to compel Reichman to produce responses to
the Records Subpoena.
 
            In
opposition, Petitioner argues that he has submitted all responsive documents.
However, notably, he did not respond to Petitioner’s Separate Statement, and
the Exhibits attached to his declaration do not establish that all responsive
production has been provided.
 
            Moreover,
despite Reichman’s contention that Petitioner has refused to clearly set forth
what production remains outstanding, Petitioner’s motion was accompanied by a
Separate Statement which sets forth these contentions, as does the Meet and
Confer letter sent on May 1, 2024. (See Beg Decl., Exh. 3.) Petitioner sent a
follow up letter on May 3, 2024. Petitioner then sent another email on May 14,
writing: 
 
To allow us
to evaluate the completeness of Reichman & Associates' document production,
we would like to schedule a call to discuss the following topics: 
 
1. From where
did Reichman collect the documents that it produced on April 25? 
 
2. What
protocols were followed to ensure that all responsive documents were produced? 
 
3. Did
Reichman conduct a search of Reichman email accounts for responsive
communications and documents? If so, describe this search process.
 
4. Has Avi
Reichman, or any employee or other accountant associated with Reichman, ever
communicated via text message or through any messaging service with Jim Khuri
and/or Patti Walsh?
 
5. Does
Reichman keep or maintain any of documents, including workpapers, on a server,
or in any other storage, that was not searched for purposes of collecting an
dproducting documents responsive to the subpoena? 
 
Can you let
us know.your availability to discuss the above this week? 
 
            (Beg
Decl. Exh. 5.) 
 
In response,
Plaintiff received an email from Reichman’s principal, Avi Reichman “Please
stop harassing me and my office. I have given you my files which I was told was
what you wanted in lieu of a deposition. There is nothing more to discuss.” Beg
Decl., ¶ 12, Exhs. 6-7.) 
 
As such, the
Court finds adequate attempts to meet and confer by Petitioner. Moreover, the
Court finds no basis for concluding that Reichman’s production has been
sufficient or consists of all responsive documents.
 
Based on the
foregoing, Defendant’s motion to enforce the Deposition Subpoena for Production
of Business Records in Action Pending Outside California against Defendant
Reichman & Associates, P.C. is granted. Reichman is sanctioned $700.00.
($350/hr x 2 hr.) 
 
 
 Superior
Court of California
County of Los Angeles
 
DEPARTMENT
17
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



JORDAN
  ALAIMO, individually and derivatively on behalf of APEX GAMING, LLC, and
  ATLAS WORLD TRADING LLC 
  
         vs.
 
REICHMAN
  & ASSOCIATES, P.C.    

 


 Case No.: 
  24STCP02029
 
 
 
 Hearing
  Date:  September 10, 2024




 
Petitioner’s
motion to compel Reichman to produce a PMQ is GRANTED. Compliance is ordered
within 20 days.  Reichman is sanctioned
$700 payable within 30 days.
 
            On
6/21/2024, Petitioner Jordan Alaimo, individually and derivatively on behalf of
APEX Gaming, LLC and Atlas World Trading, LLC, (Petitioner) filed suit against
Reichman & Associates, P.C. (Reichman or Respondent), seeking enforcement
of nonparty subpoena for the production of business records. 
 
            On
7/12/2024, Petitioner moved to enforce the Deposition Subpoena for Personal
Appearance in Action Pending Outside California against Defendant Reichman
& Associates, P.C (Reichman). 
 
Discussion 
 
            Petitioner
argues that Reichman must be compelled to respond because it refuses to produce
its PMQ for deposition: 
 
Reichman
provided no objection to the Depo Subpoena. Instead, it has taken the position
that because it produced some documents pursuant to Petitioner’s Subpoena for
Production of Business Records in Action Pending Outside California (“Records
Subpoena”) that is excused from having to produce it’s person most qualified
(“PMQ”) to testify at a deposition. Despite Petitioner’s multiple attempts to
meet and confer regarding same, Reichman vehemently refuses to produce its PMQ
for his deposition.
 
            (Motion,
3: 10-15.)
 
            In
opposition, Reichman argues that this motion is deficient and untimely, and
contends that he was told that if he provided the production requested nothing
further would be required. 
 
            As
for the first contention, Reichman does not cite any authority to show that
this motion is untimely. Rather, Reichman argues that “Ms. Beg filed the motion
after her own stated deadline to do so.” (Opp., 4: 2.) Clearly, an informally set
deadline, even accepted as true, does not provide the grounds for denial of a
motion as untimely. 
 
            As
for the second contention, Reichman’s arguments regarding production ignore the
underlying relief sought in Petitioner’s motion—i.e., the production of a PMQ for
deposition. Reichman’s motion fails to address this issue in any way, and thus
is considered to have conceded to the merits of this argument.
 
            Based
on the forgoing, Petitioner’s motion to compel Reichman to produce a PMQ is
granted. Reichman is sanctioned $700.00. ($350/hr x 2 hr.)  
 
 
 
It is so ordered. 
 
Dated:  September   
, 2024
                                                                                                                                                           
   Hon. Jon R.
Takasugi
   Judge of the
Superior Court
 
 
 
Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must
send an email to the court at smcdept17@lacourt.org
by 4 p.m. the day prior as directed by the instructions provided on the court
website at www.lacourt.org.  If a party submits
on the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must
identify the party submitting on the tentative. 
If all parties to a motion submit, the court will adopt this
tentative as the final order.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  For more information, please contact the court clerk at (213)
633-0517.  
 
 