 Case Number:  23STCV09930    Hearing Date:   May 3, 2024    Dept:  32 


 
ALEXANDER KHAZAI,
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
 
SAMMY ZABLEN, et al., 
                        Defendants.
  


 
  Case No.:  23STCV09930
  Hearing Date:  May 3, 2024
 
     [TENTATIVE]
  order RE:
defendant mckesson corporation’s
  demurrer to first amended complaint




 


 



BACKGROUND
            On May 3, 2023, Plaintiff Alexander
Khazai filed this action against numerous Defendants, asserting 16 causes of
action arising from a business transaction. Plaintiff alleges that Defendants
failed to properly compensate him for his services. Plaintiff filed the
operative First Amended Complaint on January 11, 2024, reducing his claims to
(1) breach of written contract, (2) breach of oral contract, (3) fraud, and (4)
accounting.  
            On March 13, 2024, Defendant
McKesson Corporation filed the instant demurrer to the first and fourth causes
of action in the FAC. Plaintiff filed his opposition on April 22, 2024.
Defendant filed its reply on April 26, 2024. 
LEGAL STANDARD
A demurrer for sufficiency tests whether a
pleading states a cause of action or defense. (Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747.) When
considering demurrers, courts read the allegations liberally and in
context. (Taylor v. City of Los
Angeles Dept. of Water and Power (2006) 144 Cal.App.4th 1216, 1228.)
In a demurrer proceeding, the defects must be apparent on the face of the
pleading or by proper judicial notice. (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.30, subd.
(a).) A demurrer tests the pleadings alone and not the evidence or other
extrinsic matters. (SKF Farms v. Superior
Court (1984) 153 Cal.App.3d 902, 905.) Therefore, it lies only where the
defects appear on the face of the pleading or are judicially noticed. (Ibid.) The only issue involved in a
demurrer hearing is whether the pleading, as it stands, unconnected with
extraneous matters, states a cause of action or defense. (Hahn, supra, 147 Cal.App.4th at 747.)
MEET AND CONFER
Before filing a demurrer or a motion to
strike, the demurring or moving party is required to meet and confer with the
party who filed the pleading demurred to or the pleading that is subject to the
motion to strike for the purposes of determining whether an agreement can be
reached through a filing of an amended pleading that would resolve the
objections to be raised in the demurrer. (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 430.41, 435.5.)
The Court notes that Defendant has complied with the meet and confer
requirement. (See Yun Decl.)
DISCUSSION
I.
Breach of Written Contract (First Cause of Action)
            To establish breach of contract, a plaintiff must show: (1) the contract
existed, (2) the plaintiff’s performance of the contract or excuse for
nonperformance, (3) the defendant’s breach, and (4) the resulting damage to the
plaintiff. (Richman v. Hartley (2014) 224 Cal.App.4th 1182, 1186.) A
breach of contract can be alleged by simply “plead[ing] the legal effect
of the contract rather than its precise language.” (Miles v. Deutsche Bank
National Trust Co. (2015) 236 Cal.App.4th 394, 402.) 
            Plaintiff alleges that he arranged
business relationships between the various defendants regarding the sale and
distribution of personal protective equipment (PPE) during the COVID pandemic.
The action arises from Defendants’ alleged failure to pay Plaintiff his
commissions. Defendant McKesson’s demurrer argues that the FAC attributes no
actions to McKesson, much less that McKesson formed a contract with Plaintiff. 
            However, the FAC alleges that
Defendants Michael Merchant and Andy Shantz acted as McKesson’s agents and that
they made oral and written promises that Plaintiff would be paid a commission
of one penny per mask for connecting McKesson with reliable sources of PPE.
(FAC ¶¶ 9, 41.) Plaintiff alleges that he fulfilled his end of the bargain by
introducing Merchant and Shantz to Defendant Cecilia Tech, which later supplied
McKesson with hundreds of millions of masks. (Id., ¶ 42.) Despite
millions of dollars worth of masks sold, Plaintiff has not been paid any
commission. (Id., ¶ 43.) Plaintiff alleges that McKesson, through Shantz
and Merchant, breached its agreement with Plaintiff by failing to compensate
Plaintiff. (Id., ¶ 44.)      
These facts satisfy the elements for
breach of contract. The FAC is sufficiently clear that Plaintiff facilitated
transactions between the defendants in exchange for compensation and that
Defendants, including McKesson, failed to pay as agreed. Whether Merchant and
Shantz were truly authorized to contract with Plaintiff on behalf of McKesson
is a factual matter. Whether the parties truly executed a written contract, and
which writings constitute that contract, are also factual matters. For pleading
purposes, the allegations must be taken as true. The fact that Plaintiff did
not attach a written contract to the FAC or plead the contract verbatim is not
dispositive, as a breach of contract may be pled by alleging its legal effect,
which Plaintiff has done. Therefore, the FAC properly pleads breach of
contract.  
II.
Accounting
            “A cause of action for an accounting requires a showing that a
relationship exists between the plaintiff and defendant that requires an
accounting, and that some balance is due the plaintiff that can only be
ascertained by an accounting.” (Teselle v. McLoughlin (2009) 173
Cal.App.4th 156, 179.)
            The alleged arrangement between
Plaintiff and McKesson, discussed above, constitutes a relationship involving a
balance owed which requires an accounting to determine. Specifically, McKesson
allegedly agreed, through Merchant and Shantz, to pay one penny per mask and exchanged
millions of masks as a result of Plaintiff’s services. These facts establish
that an accounting is necessary to determine the precise amount owed to
Plaintiff. Therefore, the FAC properly pleads a claim for accounting. 
CONCLUSION
            Defendant McKesson’s demurrer is
OVERRULED. 