 Case Number:  23STCV31794    Hearing Date:   May 3, 2024    Dept:  32 


 
ANTHONY HAAG,
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
 
MK DIAMOND PRODUCTS,
  INC., et al., 
                        Defendants.
  


 
  Case No.:  23STCV31794
  Hearing Date:  May 3, 2024
 
     [TENTATIVE]
  order RE:
defendant brian delahaut’s demurrer to
  complaint 




 


 



BACKGROUND
            On December 28, 2023, Plaintiff
Anthony Haag filed this action against Defendants MK Diamond Products, Inc.,
Brian Delahaut, and CNA Financial Corporation. The parties have stipulated to
Continental Casualty Company substituting in for CNA Financial Corporation. 
The complaint asserts twelve causes of
action arising from a settlement agreement reached as part of an employment
discrimination action filed by Plaintiff. Plaintiff alleges that he entered the
settlement agreement with Defendants MK Diamond and Delahaut. Pursuant to the
contract, MK Diamond and Delahaut agreed to pay $93,750 to Plaintiff and
$143,750 to Plaintiff’s attorneys in exchange for Plaintiff releasing his
claims. MK Diamond and Delahaut had an insurance policy with Defendant CNA
Financial, which disbursed the funds. MK Diamond and Delahaut thereafter issued
a check to Plaintiff. Plaintiff alleges that the check bounced and that
Defendants failed to reissue a check or otherwise make payment despite giving
assurances. Plaintiff alleges that Defendants have so far only paid him
$16,000. 
On March 26, 2024, Defendant Delahaut
filed the instant demurrer to the complaint. Plaintiff filed his opposition on
April 22, 2024. Defendant filed his reply on April 26, 2024. 
LEGAL STANDARD
A demurrer for sufficiency tests whether a
pleading states a cause of action or defense. (Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747.) When
considering demurrers, courts read the allegations liberally and in
context. (Taylor v. City of Los
Angeles Dept. of Water and Power (2006) 144 Cal.App.4th 1216, 1228.)
In a demurrer proceeding, the defects must be apparent on the face of the
pleading or by proper judicial notice. (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.30, subd.
(a).) A demurrer tests the pleadings alone and not the evidence or other
extrinsic matters. (SKF Farms v. Superior
Court (1984) 153 Cal.App.3d 902, 905.) Therefore, it lies only where the
defects appear on the face of the pleading or are judicially noticed. (Ibid.) The only issue involved in a
demurrer hearing is whether the pleading, as it stands, unconnected with
extraneous matters, states a cause of action or defense. (Hahn, supra, 147 Cal.App.4th at 747.)
MEET AND CONFER
Before filing a demurrer or a motion to
strike, the demurring or moving party is required to meet and confer with the
party who filed the pleading demurred to or the pleading that is subject to the
motion to strike for the purposes of determining whether an agreement can be
reached through a filing of an amended pleading that would resolve the
objections to be raised in the demurrer. (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 430.41, 435.5.)
The Court notes that Defendant has complied with the meet and confer
requirement. (See Shaneyfelt Decl.)
DISCUSSION
I.
Delahaut’s Personal Liability 
            “Persons are not normally bound by
an agreement entered into by a corporation in which they have an interest or
are employees.” (Suh v. Superior Court (2010) 181 Cal.App.4th 1504, 1513.)
Defendant Delahaut argues that the causes of action premised on the settlement
agreement are improperly asserted against him because he was not a party to
that agreement in his individual capacity. The contract, attached as Exhibit A
to the complaint, shows it was between Plaintiff and MK Diamond, with Delahaut
signing as Vice President of MK Diamond. Furthermore, Plaintiff alleges that at
all relevant times, Delahaut “was an agent or employee of PROMISOR [MK Diamond],
and in doing the things alleged, was acting withing the scope of that agency or
employment.” (Compl. ¶ 4.)  
In opposition, Plaintiff argues that
Delahaut may be held personally liable based on four distinct theories: (1)
Delahaut personally benefitted under the agreement; (2) Delahaut intentionally
made himself a party to the agreement; (3) Delahaut is liable in restitution;
and (4) Delahaut is liable under Civil Code section 2343(3) through his own
torts. (Opp. 2:1-25.)  
            a. Personal Benefit
            Plaintiff cites to Cohen v. TNP
2008 Participating Notes Program, LLC (2019) 31 Cal.App.5th 840, 861 for
the proposition that courts have compelled officers and employees of a
corporation to arbitration, despite those individuals being non-signatories to
the arbitration agreement, where those individuals personally benefitted from
the agreement. Plaintiff argues that Delahaut benefitted from the settlement
agreement because Plaintiff agreed to release claims against Delahaut as well.
However, the exception discussed in Cohen pertains specifically to
arbitration agreements and cannot be read to mean that any non-signatory who
benefits from a contract can be held personally liable for breach of contract.  
            b. Assuming Responsibility
            “Where an agent intentionally makes
himself a party to a contract, recovery can be had against him as well.” (Warington
Lumber Co. v. Fullerton Mortg. & Escrow Co. (1963) 222 Cal.App.2d 706,
708.) In Warington, the facts supported such a theory: “an advance on a
loan to a contractor was made by check payable jointly to the contractor and
defendant mortgage and escrow company that had previously agreed to withhold
funds due plaintiff who had supplied lumber to the contractor, defendant, on
receiving the check, became the holder of funds for plaintiff; defendant was
not a mere disbursing agent, but was a principal under the agreement with
plaintiff.” (Id. at p. 708.) No similar facts are alleged here. There
are no allegations suggesting that Delahaut took over the contract and assumed
responsibility in his personal capacity. 

            c. Restitution
            To the extent that Delahaut
personally received a benefit at Plaintiff’s expense that should be returned to
Plaintiff in equity, that still does not demonstrate that Delahaut was a party
to the settlement agreement and does not support a breach of contract claim
against Delahaut. The complaint also lacks allegations demonstrating that
Delahaut personally received or retained money belonging to Plaintiff. Therefore,
the complaint generally fails to allege facts supporting restitution against
Delahaut, even apart from the contract. 
            d. Independent Wrong
            “One who assumes to act as an agent
is responsible to third persons as a principal for his acts in the course of
his agency . . . [w]hen his acts are wrongful in their nature.” (Civ. Code, §
2343(3).) “‘[A]cts are wrongful in their nature’ for purposes of Civil Code
section 2343 when they constitute an independent tort.” (Peredia v. HR
Mobile Services, Inc. (2018) 25 Cal.App.5th 680, 693.) “Section 2343
recognizes the elementary rule that everyone is liable for his torts, and an
agent or servant no exception merely because such.” (Id. at p. 694.) 
Plaintiff argues that Delahaut “breached
the settlement agreement (1st Cause of Action) by committing a number of torts
and wrongful acts against Plaintiff and can be held liable as a matter of
California law.” (Opp. 8:21-22.) However, Plaintiff cites no authority
supporting the proposition that a contract can be breached through tort. In
fact, “[a]n omission to perform a
contract obligation is never a tort, unless that omission is also an omission
of a legal duty.” (Erlich v. Menezes (1999) 21 Cal.4th 543, 551.) To the
extent Plaintiff was not fully paid the amount due under the settlement
agreement, that is simply a breach of contract. And as discussed above, the
current allegations reveal that only MK Diamond is liable under the contract.
To the extent Delahaut independently committed a tort by personally taking
Plaintiff’s money, the complaint lacks such allegations. Therefore, the
complaint fails to allege that Delahaut committed an independent wrong
supporting personal liability.   
II.
Uncertainty
            Delahaut argues that the complaint
is uncertain because it asserts the causes of action against “Defendants”
without specifying which actions Delahaut conducted in his personal capacity. As
discussed above, the complaint as currently pled does not establish that
Delahaut has a personal obligation to pay Plaintiff. Plaintiff argues that he
is entitled to assert all claims against all defendants, and that the reference
to “Defendants” clearly includes Delahaut. 
However, the allegations and incorporated
documents in this particular case demonstrate that Delahaut acted in a
representative capacity for MK Diamond rather than in his personal capacity.
(See Compl. ¶ 4, Ex. A.) Under these circumstances, the general reference to
“Defendants” fails to raise a reasonable inference that Delahaut is personally
liable. The complaint is not
sufficiently clear that Delahaut personally took or retained Plaintiff’s money.

In sum, the
current allegations fail to establish that Delahaut is personally liable for
breach of contract or for the remaining causes of action based on tortious
conduct. Therefore, amendment is warranted.           
CONCLUSION
            Defendant Delahaut’s demurrer is
SUSTAINED with leave to amend. 