  Case Number:  20STCV03170    Hearing Date:   May 3, 2024    Dept:  32 


 
JOSE LUIS SANCHEZ, et
  al.,
                        Plaintiffs,
            v.
 
WALT DISNEY PARKS AND RESORTS U.S., INC.,
  et al., 
                        
                        Defendants. 


 
  Case No.:  20STCV03170
  Hearing Date:  May 3, 2024
 
     [TENTATIVE]
  order RE:
defendants’ motion to uphold highly
  confidential designation 




 


 



BACKGROUND
            On January 24, 2020, Plaintiffs Jose
Luis Sanchez (Sanchez) and Manuel Acevedo Fernandez (Acevedo) filed this action
against Walt Disney Parks and Resorts U.S., Inc. (WDPR), Disney Worldwide
Services, Inc. (DWWS), Rona Kay (Kay), and Does 1 through 10, alleging
violations of FEHA, wrongful discharge, defamation, and intentional infliction
of emotional distress. The operative First Amended Complaint, filed January 29,
2020, adds Defendants Diana Eid (Eid) and Janae Bueno (Bueno) and asserts
additional FEHA claims. Eid and Bueno were subsequently dismissed on summary
adjudication, along with certain FEHA claims. 
            Plaintiffs worked for Disney from
the 1980s until 2019, when they were terminated. Plaintiffs were terminated for
watching pornography at work. Eid and Bueno allegedly witnessed the incident
and reported it. Plaintiffs deny watching pornography and maintain that Acevedo
was merely showing off pictures of his cats to Sanchez. Plaintiffs claim that
their terminations were motivated by bias against their sexual orientation,
race, age, and disability. 
            On April 16, 2024 Defendants filed
the instant ex parte application (treated as a motion) to uphold a
“Highly Confidential” or “Attorney’s Eyes Only” designation on information
disclosed in an April 8, 2024 letter sent from defense counsel to Plaintiffs’
counsel. Plaintiffs’ counsel filed its opposition on April 24, 2024. Defendants
filed their reply on April 30, 2024.  
DISCUSSION
            The stipulated protective order in
this case defines “Highly Confidential” information as “[e]xtremely sensitive
confidential information or items, the disclosure of which to Plaintiffs would
create a substantial risk of serious harm that could not be avoided by less
restrictive means.” Defendants seek a highly confidential designation on the
information disclosed in defense counsel’s April 8 letter.
            However, the Court does not find
that there is a “substantial risk of serious harm.” The relevant parties have
the means to obtain the subject material, and it appears they were notified of
the issue around late March or early April 2024, meaning they have had over one
month to obtain the subject material to the extent they deem it necessary. The
time that has passed mitigates the claimed urgency in preventing spoliation. The
risks associated with Plaintiffs being informed now are not substantial, in
light of the opportunity that the relevant parties have had to obtain relevant
evidence and conduct their review. There is no good cause to further foreclose
Plaintiffs’ counsel from informing Plaintiffs on the status of their case and
hinder Plaintiffs’ right to prepare their case in a timely manner. 
            United States v. Padilla (2d
Cir. 2000) 203 F.3d 156 is distinguishable because the restriction in that case
was justified by concerns over jury and witness tampering, and the court found
that the defendants had “no Sixth Amendment right to be warned of [issues]
implicating the trial's truth-seeking function.” (Id. at p. 160.) No
such concerns are present in this case. As discussed above, the relevant
parties have had at least one month to obtain the subject material to the
extent they deem it necessary. There are no issues of jury or witness
tampering, nor other risks to the integrity of the trial in this case, if
Plaintiffs are informed of the April 8 letter at this time.  
            Furthermore, the risk of harm may be
“avoided by less restrictive means,” namely, Defendants’ proposed alternative
relief. Plaintiffs’ counsel does not oppose the alternative relief requested by
Defendants’ motion. 
CONCLUSION
            Defendants’ motion to uphold highly
confidential designation is DENIED. Defendants’ alternative request is
GRANTED.  