 Case Number:  22STCV34203    Hearing Date:   May 3, 2024    Dept:  32 


 
JANE DOE,
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
 
CASA DE LA FAMILIA, et
  al., 
                        Defendants.
  


 
  Case No.:  22STCV34203
  Hearing Date:  May 3, 2024
 
     [TENTATIVE]
  order RE:
plaintiff’s motion to compel further
  responses (CRS# 8631, 0353, 7732) 




 


 



BACKGROUND
            On October 24, 2022, Plaintiff Jane
Doe filed this action against Defendants Casa de la Familia (CDLF), Nogales
Psychological Counseling, Inc. (Nogales), and Oscar Aquino (Aquino). The
complaint asserts causes of action for: (1) sexual harassment in violation of
Civil Code section 51.9; (2) sexual battery in violation of Civil Code section
1708.5; and (3) negligence. Nogales has been dismissed from the lawsuit.
            According to the complaint, Aquino
was employed by CDLF as a marriage and family therapist from April 2019 to May
2020. (Compl. ¶ 15.) Plaintiff alleges that on October 5, 2019, she attended a
therapy appointment with Aquino wherein Aquino sexually assaulted her. (Id.,
¶¶ 16-17.) 
            On April 5 and 8, 2024, Plaintiff
filed the instant three motions to compel further responses from Defendant
Aquino as to Requests for Admission, Requests for Production, and Special
Interrogatories. All three motions are advanced and heard on this date (May 3,
2024).  
 
LEGAL STANDARD
Upon receiving responses to its discovery
requests, the propounding party may move for an order compelling further
responses if the responses are incomplete or evasive, or objections are without
merit or too general. (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 2030.300(a), 2031.310(a),
2033.290(a).) 
MEET AND CONFER
A motion to compel further must be
accompanied by a meet and confer declaration demonstrating an attempt to
resolve the matter informally. (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 2030.300(b)(1),
2031.310(b), 2033.290(b).) The Court finds that Plaintiff has satisfied the meet
and confer requirement. (See Seber Decl.)
DISCUSSION
I.
Requests for Admission and Special Interrogatories 
The RFAs and SROGs at issue seek to
establish that Defendant Aquino exhibited inappropriate behavior or sexually
harassed/assaulted certain patients and that Defendant was reported or
disciplined for inappropriate behavior. Defendant objected to the RFAs and
SROGs by invoking his Fifth Amendment right against self-incrimination and the
patients’ right of privacy.   
a. Fifth Amendment
                        1.
General Principles
“It is a bedrock principle of American
(and California) law, embedded in various state and federal constitutional and
statutory provisions, that witnesses may not be compelled to incriminate
themselves.” (People v. Trujeque (2015) 61 Cal.4th 227, 267.) “To
sustain the privilege, it need only be evident from the implications of the
question, in the setting in which it is asked, that a responsive answer to the
question or an explanation of why it cannot be answered might be dangerous
because injurious disclosure could result.” (Ibid.) “In that regard, a
witness's answers need not in themselves support a conviction under a criminal
statute, but may ‘furnish a link in the chain of evidence’ needed to prosecute
the witness for a crime.” (Ibid.) “Ultimately, a trial court may reject
an assertion of the privilege only when it appears to the court ‘perfectly
clear, from a careful consideration of all the circumstances in the case,
that the witness is mistaken, and that the answers cannot possibly have
such tendency’ to incriminate.” (Ibid., emphasis in original.) 
            A party’s say-so does not establish
the privilege; it is up to the trial court to determine whether the privilege
applies. (Trujeque, supra, 61 Cal.4th at pp. 267-68.) “[A] trial court
must make ‘a particularized inquiry, deciding, in connection with each specific
area that the questioning party wishes to explore, whether or not the privilege
is well-founded.’ Although the witness may have a valid claim to the privilege
with respect to some questions, the scope of that privilege may not extend to
all relevant questions. The witness may be totally excused only if the court
finds that he could ‘legitimately refuse to answer essentially all relevant
questions.’” (Id. at p. 268.) “This has long been the rule in California
in both criminal and civil proceedings.” (Ibid.)  
                        2.
Application 
            Here, Defendant’s answers regarding
whether he sexually harassed or assaulted other individuals, or was disciplined
for such, fall within the “chain of evidence” that could ultimately result in
criminal liability. Plaintiff argues that the actions implicated by the RFAs
and SROGs, while inappropriate, do not amount to criminal behavior. However,
some of the requests clearly describe sexual battery, which is a crime. (See, e.g.,
RFA Nos. 2, 3, 21; SROG Nos. 113, 114.) Moreover, the law is clear that “a
witness's answers need not in themselves support a conviction under a criminal
statute.” (Trujeque, supra, 61 Cal.4th at p. 267.) “The test is whether
the statement might tend to incriminate, not whether it might tend to lead to
an actual prosecution or, stated slightly differently, whether the statement could,
not would, be used against the witness.” (People v. Seijas (2005)
36 Cal.4th 291, 305, emphasis in original.)
            Given the nature of the case and the
information sought, “inappropriate behavior” in this context clearly involves
sexual assault or sexual battery, which are crimes. Even if some of the
questions do not directly implicate criminal conduct, Defendant’s answers
regarding whether he was reported or disciplined for sexual misconduct, or made
sexually charged comments, may “tend to incriminate” him as part of the “chain
of evidence.” Therefore, it does not “clearly appear” to the Court that
Defendant’s answers “cannot possibly” have a tendency to incriminate Defendant.
(See Seijas, supra, 36 Cal.4th at p. 305.) The Court finds that
Defendant properly asserted his privilege against self-incrimination.  
            In reply, Plaintiff cites to Maldonado
v. Superior Court (2012) 53 Cal.4th 1112, 1127-28 for the proposition that
a Fifth Amendment violation does not occur until incriminating information is used
against a defendant in a criminal case. However, Maldonado does
not preclude a trial court in a civil case from restricting discovery based on
concerns over self-incrimination. A party may invoke the Fifth Amendment to
refuse to answer questions in a noncriminal proceeding so long as the privilege
is “specifically claimed on a particular question and the matter [is] submitted
to the court for its determination as to the validity of the claim.” (Warford
v. Medeiros (1984) 160 Cal.App.3d 1035, 1045.) A “trial court has broad
discretion in ruling on discovery matters.” (Perkins v. Superior Court
(1981) 118 Cal.App.3d 761, 765.) For the reasons articulated above, the Court
finds that Defendant properly declined to answer the subject RFAs and SROGs
based on the Fifth Amendment. 
b. Privacy
            The information sought is not
otherwise precluded from disclosure by privacy. Defendant cites no authority
supporting the proposition that information about his inappropriate conduct constitutes
“protected medical information” under HIPAA or CMIA. Nor does the information
implicate the psychotherapist-patient privilege, as the alleged sexually
harassing comments are not “confidential communications.” (See Evid. Code, §
1014.) The information is directly relevant, and Plaintiff’s need for the
information would outweigh the privacy interests. (See Williams v. Sup. Ct.
(2017) 3 Cal.5th 531, 552.) Nonetheless, as discussed above, Defendant’s
refusal to answer is justified by the privilege against self-incrimination.  
II.
Requests for Production
“A representation of inability to comply .
. . shall affirm that a diligent search and a reasonable inquiry has been made
in an effort to comply with that demand. This statement shall also specify
whether the inability to comply is because the particular item or category has
never existed, has been destroyed, has been lost, misplaced, or stolen, or has
never been, or is no longer, in the possession, custody, or control of the
responding party. The statement shall set forth the name and address of any
natural person or organization known or believed by that party to have
possession, custody, or control of that item or category of item.” (Code Civ.
Proc., § 2031.230.) 
Defendant responded to each of the subject
RFPs by repeating the following statement: “Responding is not in possession,
custody, or control of any DOCUMENTS responsive to this request.” This response
is not compliant because it merely asserts that Defendant is not in possession
of responsive documents without providing any of the information required by
Section 2031.230. While Defendant cannot be compelled to produce documents that
he does not have, his written responses must still comply with the Code. Defendant’s
subsequent explanations during meet and confer and in his opposition do not
negate the fact that his responses are defective as currently written.
Therefore, amendment is necessary.
CONCLUSION
            Plaintiff’s motions to compel
further responses to Requests for Admission and Special Interrogatories are
DENIED. Plaintiff’s motion to compel further responses to Requests for
Production is GRANTED. Defendant shall produce further responses to the subject
RFPs within 15 days of this order. 