 Case Number:  23CHCV03759    Hearing Date:   April 25, 2024    Dept:  1 23CHCV03759          PRODUCTION
RESOURCE GROUP vs IMANI MEDIA GROUP INC
Defendants Imani Media Group, Inc. and Yolanda Halley’s
Stipulated Motion for Order to Transfer Case 
TENTATIVE RULING: 
The Stipulated Motion for Order to Transfer Case to Appropriate Court is
GRANTED and 23CHCV03759 is ordered reassigned to the Stanley Mosk Courthouse in
the Central District of the Los Angeles Superior Court.  Notice of case reassignment shall issue
shortly.  Clerk to give notice.
Request
for Judicial Notice
 
Defendants request the Court take
judicial notice of various court documents filed in this case. The request is
GRANTED. (Evid. Code § 452(d).)
 
Motion to Transfer Between Districts
 
Standard 
 
The Local Rules of the Los Angeles Superior Court govern
the assignment of cases between its districts and departments. (Code Civ. Proc.
§ 402.) LASC Local Rule 2.3(b)(2) authorizes Department 1 to transfer civil
cases from one judicial district to another via a noticed motion on three
enumerated grounds: (1) when the case was filed in an improper district; (2)
for the convenience of witnesses; or (3) to promote the
ends of justice. (LASC Local Rule 2.3(b)(2).) 
 
The
Parties Stipulated to a Transfer to a Proper District
 
Defendants seek to transfer this action to the Stanley Mosk
Courthouse in the Central District. The case is currently assigned to Department F51 of the Chatsworth Courthouse, which
sits in the North Valley District of the Los Angeles Superior Court. (LASC
Local Rules, rule 2.2(b).)
 
In section 1 of the civil case cover sheet, Plaintiff’s
counsel checked the box describing the case type as “breach of
contract/warranty (06).” Pursuant to
Local Rule 2.3(a)(1)(A), “[t]he filing court locator on the Los Angeles
Superior Court website (www.lacourt.org) should be used to determine the
appropriate filing location.” A contract action may be filed in one of three
locations, the Central District, where performance is required by an express
provision, or where defendant resides. (LASC Local Rules, rule 2.3(a)(1)(B).) 
 
In “Step 4” of the civil case
cover sheet addendum where the filing party is asked to “[c]heck
the appropriate boxes for the numbers shown under Column C for the type of
action that you have selected. Enter the address, which is the basis for the
filing location including zip code,” Plaintiff
selected Reason 5 and listed the relevant address as “1245 Aviation
Place, San Fernando, CA 91340. Reason 5 corresponds to the “[l]ocation where
performance is required, or defendant resides” In Step 5 of the civil case
cover sheet addendum, Plaintiff’s counsel certified that the case was properly
assigned to the Chatsworth Courthouse. 
 
As argued by Defendants, there are no allegations in the
complaint regarding the San Fernando address. The account application attached
to the complaint suggests Imani Media Group’s address is 9903 S. Santa Monica
Blvd. #451 Beverly Hills CA 90212. (Compl. Ex. 1.) On December 28, 2023,
Plaintiff filed proofs of service of summons indicating both Defendants were
served via substitute service at 9903 Santa Monica Blvd, SUITE 451 Beverly
Hills, CA 90212. (RJN Ex. 4.) Defendant Halley provided a declaration stating
“IMG’s address is 9903 S. Santa Monica Blvd. #451, Beverly Hills, California
90212. I reside in the city of Beverly Hills. I have no knowledge or
connection, personally or professionally, with the 1245 Aviation Place, San
Fernando, California 91340 address.” (Halley Decl. ¶¶ 3-4.) The contract
attached to the complaint does not appear to expressly require performance in
any specific location. (Compl. Ex. 2.) 
 
Based upon the Defendants’ Beverly Hills residence, the
Santa Monica Courthouse, Beverly Hills Courthouse, or Stanley Mosk Courthouse,
were the permissible filing locations for this action. (LASC Local Rules, rule
2.3(a)(1)(B).) Additionally, the
parties “agreed that the Action should be transferred to the Superior Court of
California, County of Los Angeles, Central District, Stanley Mosk Courthouse.”
(Guidry Decl. Ex. 1.) 
 
The Court finds the case was filed in an improper district
and the motion is GRANTED. 
 
 
 