This is an employment action.  Plaintiff Sofia Zermoglio seeks to compel further responses to her form interrogatories (“FI”) (employment), set one, and requests for production, set one, from Defendant ADP TOTALSOURCE FL XVI, INC.Form Interrogatories FI no. 209.2 is at issue.  This FI states, “Except for this action, in the past 10 years has any employee filed a civil action against the EMPLOYER regarding his or her employment? If so, for each civil action: (a) state the name, ADDRESS, and telephone number of each employee who filed the action; (b) state the court, names of the parties, and case number of the civil action; (c) state the name, ADDRESS, and telephone number of any attorney representing the EMPLOYER; and (d) state whether the action has been resolved or is pending.” Defendant asserted objections.  Defendant states, “Ordinarily, this interrogatory is propounded to discover potential ‘me too’ evidence that may show a pattern of an employer discriminating, harassing or retaliating against employees similarly situated to Plaintiff. Here, however, it likely will not because of the contractual nature of ADPTS and the worksite employers. Because ADPTS works with so many different worksite employers, ‘me too’ evidence is unlikely without some connection, such as the liaison at ADPTS who managed the relationship between ADPTS and the worksite employer. Without such a connection, any information gathered from identification of these public documents will produce information that has no bearing whatsoever to this case.” This lacks merit.  The scope of discovery is broad and discovery is permitted so long as it may eventually lead to relevant information.  The Motion to Compel is granted.  A further response is to be provided within 20 days.  The Court awards reduced sanctions in the amount of $800. DocumentsThe following discovery is at issue: request nos. 1-3, 5, 7-8, 17-19, 21-22, 31, 37-38, 42, 43, 44, 46-50, 52-53, 60, 69, 81, 85, 88, 91, 94 and 95.The Motion is denied as moot because Defendant indicates that it served supplemental responses on August 20, 2024.  If the responses are still insufficient, the parties should meet and confer and then Plaintiff can take appropriate action if necessary.The Court awards Plaintiff reduced sanctions in the amount of $300.Moving party to give notice.If counsel do not submit on the tentative, they are strongly encouraged to appear by LACourtConnect rather than in person due to the COVID-19 pandemic. 