  Case Number:  21STCV03986    Hearing Date:   July 15, 2024    Dept:  45 
  Superior
Court of California
County
of Los Angeles
 



PEOPLE OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA ex
  rel. FRANK J. CANNATA,
 
                             Relator,
 
                              vs.
LUCKY’S
  TWO-WAY RADIOS, INC., a Nevada Corporation; BUDDY CORPORATION, a California
  Corporation; JAMES A. KAY, JR., an individual; DOES 1 through 20, Inclusive,
 
                              Defendants.


Case No.:  21STCV03986
DEPARTMENT
  45
 
 
 
[TENTATIVE] RULING
 
 
 
Action
  Filed: 02/01/2021 
[1st
  Amended Complaint Filed: 02/09/2023]
Trial
  Date: 09/03/2024



 
Hearing
date:              07/15/2024
Moving
Party:             Defendants
Lucky’s Two-Way Radios, Inc.; Buddy Corporation;                                        and
James A Kay Jr. 
Responding
Party:      Relator
Frank J. Cannata
Motion:                       Defendant’s Defendants’
Demurrer to Relator’s First Amended                                          Complaint
The Court
considered the moving papers, opposition, and reply. Defendants’ Demurrer to
Relator’s First Amended Complaint is SUSTAINED without leave to
amend. 
 
 
Background
             This case stems from accusations of insurance
fraud. On February 1, 2021, Frank J. Cannata (Relator) filed a Complaint
against three defendants: (1) Lucky’s Two-Way Radios, Inc.; (2) Buddy
Corporation; (3) and James A. Kay Jr (collectively Defendants). The Complaint
alleges that Defendants violated the California Insurance Frauds Prevention Act
(IFPA or INS §1871.7). On February 9, 2023, Relator filed the operative First
Amended Complaint (FAC). The violations are grounded in Relator’s allegations
that Defendants owned several pieces of defunct electronic equipment. (FAC,
pgs. 5-7.) The Defendants allege that this equipment was stolen by Relator,
this allegation in and of itself is the basis for a separate case, Lucky’s
Two-Way Radios, Inc., et al. vs. Frank J. Cannata, Los Angeles Superior
Court Case No. LC106864 (hereinafter, Case No. LC106864). (See Defendants’
Request for Judicial Notice, Exh. 1.) 
            Per
Relator, after Defendants reported the theft, they claimed that the value of
the loss was $881,190.43. Relator alleges that this value is grossly inflated
and constitutes fraud upon Defendants’ insurer Hartford Fire Insurance Company,
as the fair market value of the missing electronics is less than $20,000.00. (FAC,
¶ 29.) Relator then filed suit. 
            The
motion now before the Court is Defendants’ Demurrer to the FAC. Relator opposes
the Demurrer, and Defendants file a reply. 
  
Requests for
Judicial Notice
             Both parties file requests for judicial
notice. Upon their moving papers, Defendants request that this Court judicially
notice the following:
1.     
Declaration of Levi Lesches, filed
in Lucky’s Two-Way Radios, Inc., et al. vs. Frank J. Cannata, Los
Angeles Superior Court Case No. LC106864
2.     
Original Complaint to this action
3.     
The FAC to this action.
            Pursuant
to CEC § 452(d)(1), item one is judicially noticed, but not for the truth of
the matter therein asserted. However, because the Court by necessity refers to
all prior complaints in the action, items two and three need not be judicially
noticed. 
            Relator
requests that the Court take judicial notice of the same latter two items, the
Court declines this request for the same reason noted above.
 
Discussion
Legal Standard
and Analysis for Meet and Confer
            “Before filing a demurrer…the
demurring party shall meet and confer in person or by telephone with the party
who filed the pleading that is subject to demurrer for the purpose of
determining whether an agreement can be reached that would resolve the
objections to be raised in the demurrer.” (Code Civ. Proc. §430.41(a).) Defendants
provide the Declaration of Thomas W. Foote (Foote Decl.) which states that the
parties spoke over the phone on May 28, 2024, but were unable to come to an
agreement. (Foot Decl., ¶¶ 2 and 6.) Although no agreement was reached, the
requirements of Code Civ. Proc. §430.41(a) are satisfied. Now, the Court turns
its attention to the Demurrer.   
 
Legal Standard
for Demurrer
            “[A] demurrer tests the legal
sufficiency of the allegations in a complaint.” (Lewis v. Safeway, Inc. (2015)
235 Cal.App.4th 385, 388.) A demurrer can be used only to challenge defects
that appear on the face of the pleading under attack or from matters outside
the pleading that are judicially noticeable. (See Donabedian v. Mercury Ins.
Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994 [in ruling on a demurrer, a court may
not consider declarations, matters not subject to judicial notice, or documents
not accepted for the truth of their contents].) For purposes of ruling on a
demurrer, all facts pleaded in a complaint are assumed to be true, but the
reviewing court does not assume the truth of conclusions of law. (Aubry v.
Tri-City Hosp. Dist. (1992) 2 Cal.4th 962, 967.)
            
Analysis for
Demurrer
            Defendants’ primary argument upon
Demurrer is that Relator does not have appropriate standing to bring this
action because Relator did not comply with INS §1871.7(h)(2). Relator argues
that because of the wording of the statute, that this section does not apply.
For the reasons discussed below, the Court disagrees and sustains the Demurrer
without leave to amend. 
 
a)      Requirements of INS §1871.7(h)(2)
            The parties contentions surround
whether Relator was required to provide the information within this suit to the
district attorney or the insurance commissioner before filing an action under
INS §1871.7 in Court. INS §1871.7 or IFPA is a law with the purpose of
supplementing government efforts to fight insurance fraud. (People ex rel.
Strathmann v. Acacia Research Corp. (2012) 210 Cal.App.4th 487,
504.) Under INS §1871.7(h)(2), there is a jurisdictional requirement. In
pertinent part, the section states:
 
“No court shall have jurisdiction over an action under this section based
upon the public disclosure of allegations or transactions in a criminal, civil,
or administrative hearing in a legislative or administrative report, hearing,
audit, or investigation, or from the news media, unless the action is brought
by the Attorney General or the person bringing the action is an original source
of the information.” INS §1871.7(h)(2)(A)
 
“For purposes of this paragraph, “original source” means an individual
who has direct and independent knowledge of the information on which the
allegations are based and has voluntarily provided the information to the
district attorney or commissioner before filing an action under this
section that is based on the information.” INS § 1871.7(h)(2)(B)
 
            The jurisdictional requirement is to
prevent “parasitic” actions where opportunists simply take advantage of public
information without contributing to the exposure of the fraud. (People ex
rel. Allstate Ins. Co. v. Weitzman (2003) 107 Cal.App.4th 534,
564, “Allstate”.) As relevant here, Relator concedes that he is not an
“original source” within the meaning of the statute (see Opposition Papers,
4:3-4), nor did Relator allege in the FAC to provide the district attorney or
the insurance commissioner with information regarding the allegations before
this filing. Instead, Relator contends that INS § 1871.7(h)(2) does not apply
because Relator is not basing the action on publicly disclosed documents. Therefore,
the inquiry before the Court is whether the documents used, namely documents
filed in Case No. LC106864, have been publicly
disclosed for purposes of  INS § 1871.7(h)(2). As explained below, this
Court answers that inquiry in the affirmative.
b)      Public Disclosure
            Although INS § 1871.7(h)(2) does not
provide a definition for “public disclosure”, case law provides guidance.
Relator implores the Court to look to Mao’s Kitchen, Inc. v. Mundy
(2012) 209 XCal.App.4th 132 (“Mundy”) as persuasive
authority. In Mundy the Court of Appeal reviewed a case where a
restaurant patron brought an action against the owner under the Americans with
Disabilities Act and the Unruh Civil Rights Act. The owner filed a
cross-complaint alleging violations of the California False Claims Act (CFCA).
Relator argues that the case is analogous and encourages the court to implicate
the public-disclosure bar of INS § 1871.7(h)(2) only if (1) there has been a
disclosure in a public fashion and (2) if the disclosure came from a criminal,
civil, or administrative hearing in a legislative or administrative report,
hearing, audit or investigation. (Opposition Papers, 5:6-11.) The Court
declines to apply this two-part test as Relator’s reliance on Mundy is
misplaced for two reasons. 
            First, Mundy was interpreting
a separate act, the CFCA. The Court notes that although INS § 1871.7(h)(2)(A)
mirrors the relevant section of the CFCA - GOV§ 12651(e)(d)(3)(A) - their
applications are not always the same. The CFCA aims to protect California
workers giving them the right to file a “qui tam” lawsuit against an
employer committing fraud with respect to government funds, whereas the IFPA
specifically targets insurance fraud. 
            Second, Mundy itself was
explicit in noting that “…courts have held that discovery materials filed
with the court are publicly disclosed.” (See United States ex rel. Kreindler
& Kreindler v. United Technologies Corp. (2d Cir.1993) 985 F.2d 1148,
1158 [“[I]nformation was publicly disclosed because it was available to anyone
who wished to consult the court file.”]).” 
            Relator presents one final argument
concerning the interpretation of INS §1871.7(h)(2)(A), specifically the syntax.
Relator points the Court to the first sentence of INS § 1871.7(h)(2)(A): “No
court shall have jurisdiction over an action under this section based upon the
public disclosure of allegations or transactions in a criminal, civil, or
administrative hearing in a legislative or administrative report,
hearing, audit, or investigation.” (emphasis added.) Relator argues that the
word “in” is significant in that it signifies that the criminal, civil, or
administrative hearing, must occur in a legislative or administrative report.
Simply put, Relator argues that public disclosure only occurs in proceedings
where the government is a party. The Court is unpersuaded. Relator provides no authority
supporting such an interpretation of INS § 1871.7(h)(2)(A) in this manner. Indeed,
not all insurance fraud involves a government agency. 
            With this in mind, we turn to the
facts before the Court.   
c)      The documents Relator relied on were publicly
disclosed, therefore Relator’s suit is barred
            There is no dispute between the
parties that the facts represented by Relator in the FAC are based off of
filings in Case No. LC106864. Additionally, neither
party contends that these foundational filings in Case No. LC106864 were under
seal. Therefore, under Mundy these documents would therefore be
considered “publicly disclosed”. This subsequently means that Relator was
subject to the requirement under INS
§1871.7(h)(2)(A) to provide the
information within this suit to the district attorney or the insurance
commissioner before filing this action or be the “original source”. Because
neither of those prerequisites have been met, the suit is barred.  
 
Legal Standard
and Analysis for Leave to Amend
            Leave
to amend must be allowed where there is a reasonable possibility of successful
amendment. (See Goodman v. Kennedy (1976) 18 Cal.3d 335, 349 [court shall not
“sustain a demurrer without leave to amend if there is any reasonable
possibility that the defect can be cured by amendment”]. As there is no
reasonable possibility of successful amendment, leave to amend is denied.  
 
Conclusion
Defendants’
Demurrer to Relator’s First Amended Complaint is SUSTAINED without
leave to amend. 
 
            It
is so ordered.
 
Dated: July 15, 2024
 
_______________________
Mel Red Recana
Judge of the
Superior Court
 