  Case Number:  21STCV24843    Hearing Date:   May 20, 2024    Dept:  71 Superior  Court of California County  of Los Angeles   DEPARTMENT 71   AMENDED TENTATIVE  RULING      BEAR VALLEY 2005, LLC,                  vs.   MECHANICS BANK.    Case    No.:  21STCV24843        Hearing Date:  May 16, 2024      Defendant Mechanics Bank’s motion for summary  judgment of Plaintiff Bear Valley 2005, LLC’s first amended complaint is  denied.  Defendant Mechanics Bank’s motion in the  alternative for summary adjudication of Plaintiff Bear Valley 2005, LLC’s first  amended complaint is granted as to the 1st, and denied as to the 2nd and 3rd causes of action.   Defendant  Mechanics Bank (“Mechanics Bank”) (“Defendant”) moves for summary judgment of  Plaintiff Bear Valley 2005, LLC’s (“Bear Valley”) (“Plaintiff”) first amended  complaint (“FAC”) on the basis there are no triable issues of material fact as  to Plaintiff’s FAC and that there is no triable issue as to any defense.  (Notice Motion, pgs. 1-2.)   Defendant  moves in the alternative for summary adjudication of Plaintiff’s 1st [Issue  1], 2nd [Issue 2], and 3rd [Issue 3] causes of action.  (Notice Motion, pg. 2.)  On the 1st cause of action, Defendant moves  on the basis Plaintiff cannot establish the occurrence of at least one  condition precedent to Plaintiff’s enforcement of the contractual obligation in  question.  (Notice Motion, pg. 2.)  On the 2nd and 3rd causes of action,  Defendant moves on the basis Plaintiff cannot establish the essential element  of justifiable reliance.  (Notice Motion,  pg. 2.)   Evidentiary  Objections Plaintiff’s  5/2/24 evidentiary objections to the Declaration of Lourdes Raval (“Raval”) are  overruled as to Nos. 3 and 4 and sustained as to No. 2.[1]   Background Plaintiff filed its initial Complaint on July 6, 2021.  Plaintiff filed the operative FAC on February  23, 2023, alleging three causes of action: (1) breach of contract, (2) fraud,  and (3) negligent misrepresentation. Defendant filed the instant motion on March 1, 2024.  Plaintiff filed its opposition on May 2,  2024.  Defendant filed its reply on May 10,  2024.   Legal  Standard A  motion for summary judgment shall be granted if all the papers submitted show  that there is no triable issue as to any material fact and that the moving  party is entitled to a judgment as a matter of law.  (C.C.P.  §437c(c).)  A  motion for summary adjudication may be made by itself or as an alternative to a  motion for summary judgment and shall proceed in all procedural respects as a motion  for summary judgment.  (C.C.P. §437c(f)(2).)  A party may move for  summary adjudication as to one or more causes of action within an action if  that party contends that the cause of action has no merit or to an affirmative  defense as to any cause of action, that there is no merit to a claim for  damages, as specified in Civil Code §3294, or that one or more defendants  either owed or did not owe a duty to the plaintiff or plaintiffs.  (C.C.P. §437c(f)(1).)  A motion for summary adjudication shall be granted  only if it completely disposes of a cause of action, an affirmative defense, a  claim for damages, or an issue of duty.  (C.C.P. §437c(f)(1).)    Breach of Contract (1st COA) “To  prevail on a cause of action for breach of contract, the plaintiff must prove  (1) the contract, (2) plaintiff’s performance of the contract or excuse for  nonperformance, (3) defendant’s breach, and (4) resulting damage to the  plaintiff.”  (Richman v. Hartley  (2014) 224 Cal.App.4th 1182, 1186.)   A  condition precedent “is one which is to be performed before some right  dependent thereon accrues, or some act dependent thereon is performed.”  (Civ. Code §1436.)  Conditions precedent must generally be plain  and unambiguous to be construed as such.  (Barroso v. Ocwen Loan Servicing,  LLC (2012) 208 Cal.App.4th 1001, 1010.)   Failure of condition precedent is a complete defense on a breach of  contract cause of action and its derivatives.  (Bennett v. Carlen  (1963) 213 Cal.App.2d 307, 309.) Defendant  argues Plaintiff cannot establish the occurrence of a clear condition precedent  to its right to enforce the five-year option.  (Motion Memo, pg. 11.) Defendant  submitted evidence that the condition precedent to Plaintiff’s right to enforce  the five-year option did not occur.   Specifically, Defendant submitted the Credit Agreement, which states:  Borrower may elect to extend the  Maturity Date for a period of five (5) years (the “Extension Period”) subject  to the satisfaction of each of the following terms and conditions (all of which  must be satisfied prior to the commencement of the Extension Period): . . .   (iv) If Borrower has elected for  the Loan to bear interest during the Extension Period pursuant to clause (i) of  Section 1.03, Borrower shall have entered into an Interest Hedging Agreement(s)  with respect to the Loan with a notional amount equal to the outstanding  principal amount of the Loan as of the initial Maturity Date, in form and substance  satisfactory to Lender.   (Defendant’s  Disputed Separate Statement of Fact [“D-DSSF”] 9; Decl. of Cronin ¶2, Exh. 1 at  §1.04(d)(iv).)  It is undisputed that “Interest  Hedging Agreement” means “any interest rate swap, cap, collar or other similar  agreement related to an extension of credit under this agreement that is entered  into by and between Borrower and a Swap Counterparty.”  (Defendant’s Undisputed Separate Statement of  Fact [“D-USSF”] 10.)  Defendant submitted  the declaration of Lourdes Raval (“Raval”), Mechanics Bank’s Vice  President/Lead Relationship Manager—Commercial Real Estate Finance, which  states, “Plaintiff never presented Mechanics Bank with an ‘Interest Hedging  Agreement’ (as that term is defined in the Credit Agreement) pursuant to the  terms set forth in Section 1.04(d)(iv) at any time.”  (D-DSSF 11; Decl. of Raval ¶6.)  Raval also declares, “to my knowledge,  Mechanics Bank never took any action nor made any statement (in writing or  orally) that could be construed to communicate or effect a waiver of the requirement  that Plaintiff comply with Section 1.04(d)(iv) of the Credit Agreement.”  (D-DSSF 12; Decl. of Raval ¶8.)  Defendant met its burden to demonstrate the  condition precedent to Plaintiff’s right to enforce the five-year option did  not occur, shifting the burden to Plaintiff to demonstrate a triable issue of  material fact.             Plaintiff failed to meet its burden to demonstrate a triable issue of  material fact as to whether the condition precedent to Plaintiff’s right to  enforce the five-year option occurred.  Plaintiff  argues Defendant anticipatorily breached Credit Agreement, which relieved  Plaintiff of its obligation to comply with §1.04(d)(iv).  (Opposition, pgs. 15-17.)  However, Plaintiff’s argument regarding  anticipatory breach was not raised in its pleadings and is therefore outside  the scope of the instant motion.  (Jacobs v. Coldwell Banker  Residential Brokerage Co. (2017)  14 Cal.App.5th 438, 444 [“A party may not oppose a summary judgment motion  based on a claim, theory, or defense that is not alleged in the pleadings, and  [e]vidence offered on an unpleaded claim, theory, or defense is irrelevant  because it is outside the scope of the pleadings.”].)  An anticipatory breach  must be specifically pled.  Nelson v. Specialty Records, Inc. (1970)  11 Cal.App.3d 126, 138 [“It was also stated  in Daley v. Russ (1890) 86 Cal. 114, 117 [24  P. 867]: "The rule is fundamental that the complaint must allege either  performance or a valid excuse for nonperformance. One is not the same as the other. And if the plaintiff did not  perform the contract, but relies upon the consent of the defendants as an  excuse, he must set forth the excuse in his complaint."].)               Absent the argument of anticipatory breach,  the undisputed evidence remains that Plaintiff did not meet the condition  precedent for renewing the loan of obtaining an Interest Hedging Agreement by  the end of the initial 5 year term.   Accordingly,  Defendant’s motion for summary adjudication of the 1st cause of action is GRANTED.   Fraud & Negligent  Misrepresentation (2nd & 3rd COAs) “The elements  of fraud that will give rise to a tort action for deceit are: ‘(a)  misrepresentation (false representation, concealment, or nondisclosure); (b)  knowledge of falsity (or ‘scienter’); (c) intent to defraud, i.e., to induce  reliance; (d) justifiable reliance; and (e) resulting damage.’” (Engalla v. Permanente Medical Group, Inc. (1997)  15 Cal.4th 951, 974, internal quotation marks omitted.)  “Negligent  misrepresentation requires an assertion of fact, falsity of that assertion, and  the tortfeasor’s lack of reasonable grounds for believing the assertion to be  true. It also requires the tortfeasor’s intent to induce reliance, justifiable  reliance by the person to whom the false assertion of fact was made, and  damages to that person. An implied assertion of fact is ‘not enough’ to support  liability.”  (SI 59 LLC v. Variel  Warner Ventures, LLC (2018) 29 Cal.App.5th 146, 154, internal citation  omitted.)  Defendant  argues Plaintiff cannot demonstrate it justifiably relied on Defendant’s agent,  Raval’s, representation, “don’t worry about it—feel free to ignore the Credit  Agreement’s requirements” because it contradicted the plain terms of the Credit  Agreement.  (Motion Memo, pgs. 15-16.)  Defendant further argues that Plaintiff’s  experience and sophistication also demonstrate that Plaintiff’s reliance on the  representation was unreasonable as a matter of law.  (Motion Memo, pg. 16.)  Defendant also argues any such agreement  between Plaintiff and Mechanics Bank to extend the loan without the  requirements of §1.04(d) having been fulfilled would constitute a modification  of the Credit Agreement, which is barred by the statute of frauds.  (Motion Memo, pgs. 16-17.) Defendant  failed to submit evidence demonstrating Plaintiff’s reliance on Raval’s statement  was unreasonable.  The evidence Defendant  proffers, an email correspondence between Joseph Michael and Raval, does not as  a matter of law demonstrate Plaintiff’s reliance was unreasonable.  (D-DSSF 16; Decl. of Raval, Exh. A.)  Further, Defendant’s argument that the cause  of action is barred by the statute of frauds is not supported by evidence, and  Defendant’s reply does not address Plaintiff’s arguments in opposition,  therefore conceding the issue on the statute of frauds. Accordingly,  Defendant’s motion for summary adjudication of the 2nd and 3rd causes of action  is denied.   Conclusion Defendant’s  motion for summary judgment is denied.  Defendant’s  motion in the alternative for summary adjudication is granted as to the 1st  cause of action and denied as to the 2nd and 3rd causes of action. Moving  Party to give notice.   Dated:  May  _____, 2024                                                                                               