  Case Number:  23STCV08440    Hearing Date:   July 26, 2024    Dept:  17 Superior Court of California
County of Los
Angeles
 
DEPARTMENT 17
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 



JOSE GUADALUPE SOTO-
RODRIGUEZ, et al. 
 
  
        
  vs.
 
AKG TRADING (USA) INC., et al. 
  


 Case
  No.:  23STCV08440  
 
 
 
 Hearing Date July 26, 2024




 
            Defendant
Arriaga USA, Inc.’s demurrer is SUSTAINED, WITH 15 DAYS LEAVE TO AMEND. 
 
On 4/17/2023,
Plaintiffs Jose Guadalupe-Soto Rodriguez and Sara Sanchez (collectively,
Plaintiffs) filed suit against 39 Defendants. On 2/2/2024, Plaintiff filed a
first amended complaint (FAC) alleging: (1) negligence; (2) strict
liability—warning defect; (3) strict liability—design defect; (4) fraudulent
concealment; (5) breach of implied warranties; and (6) loss of consortium. 
 
            Now,
Arriaga USA, Inc. (Defendant) demurs to Plaintiffs’ FAC.
 
Discussion  
 
            Defendant
argues that Plaintiffs cannot support any of their claims against it because
Plaintiff did not identify any of Arriaga USA, Inc.’s products that he allegedly
may have been exposed to.
 
            After
review, the Court agrees.
 
Under Bockrath
v. Aldrich Chemical Co., Inc. (Bockrath)
(1999) 21 Cal.4th 71, “[a] plaintiff must allege facts albeit as succinctly as
possible, explaining how the conduct caused or contributed to the injury.” (Id.
at p. 78.) Specifically, a plaintiff must plead the following in his or her
toxic tort complaint: 1) That he or she was exposed to each of the toxic
materials claimed to have caused a specific illness; 2) Each product that
allegedly caused the injury; 3) That as a result of the exposure, the toxins
entered his body; 4) That he suffers from a specific illness, and that each
toxin that entered his body was a substantial factor in bringing about,
prolonging, or aggravating that illness; and 5) That each toxin he absorbed was
manufactured or supplied by a named defendant. (Id. at p. 80.) 
 
As such, a
reference to undetermined products is improper: “[t]he law cannot tolerate
lawsuits by prospecting plaintiffs who sue multiple defendants on speculation
that their products may have caused harm over time through exposure to toxins
in them, and who thereafter try to learn through discovery whether their
speculation was well-founded.” (Id. at p. 81.) 
 
            Here,
Arriaga only appears three times in the 326-page FAC, and there are no
substantive allegations against it. Accordingly, Plaintiffs’ pleadings fail to
satisfy the Bockrath standard. 
 
            Based
on the foregoing, Defendant’s demurrer is sustained, with 15 days leave to
amend.
 
It is so ordered. 
 
Dated:  July   
, 2024
                                                                                                                                                           
   Hon. Jon R.
Takasugi
   Judge of the
Superior Court
 
 
 
Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must
send an email to the court at smcdept17@lacourt.org
by 4 p.m. the day prior as directed by the instructions provided on the court
website at www.lacourt.org.  If a party submits
on the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must
identify the party submitting on the tentative. 
If all parties to a motion submit, the court will adopt this
tentative as the final order.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  For more information, please contact the court clerk at (213)
633-0517.  
 
 