  Case Number:  21STCV36712    Hearing Date:   October 3, 2024    Dept:  O  
 
 
 
 
 
SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - NORTHWEST DISTRICT
 



BENJAMIN DEVINNEY, 
                    Plaintiff,
          vs.
 
CR&R INCORPORATED and DOES 1-10, 
  
                    Defendants.


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


     CASE NO.: 21STCV36712
 
ORDER DENYING PLAINTIFF’S MOTION FOR SANCTIONS OR, IN THE ALTERNATIVE, MOTION TO
  COMPLY WITH PLAINTIFF’S DEMAND FOR INSPECTION
 
ORDER
  DENYING CROSS-DEFENDANT PERFORMANCE TEAM LLC’S MOTION TO COMPEL THE PHYSICAL
  EXAMINATION OF PLAINTIFF 




CR&R INCORPORATED, 
 
                    Cross-Complainant,
          vs.
 
PERFORMANCE TEAM LLC and ROES 1-10, inclusive,  
 
                    Cross-Defendants.


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


 
 



I.              
BACKGROUND 
Plaintiff Benjamin
Devinney (“Plaintiff”) filed this action against Defendant CR&R
Incorporated (“CR&R”) for damages Plaintiff sustained after inspecting a
container owned by Defendant. Plaintiff alleges the subject container’s ladder
was broken, so Plaintiff climbed on the corner of the container. Plaintiff
stabilized himself with one foot on the container and the other on the
container’s contents. As Plaintiff pushed the container’s contents down, the contents
shifted and caused Plaintiff to fall backward off the container. 
On June 12,
2023, CR&R filed its Cross-Complaint against Cross-Defendant Performance
Team LLC (“Performance”). 
Plaintiff now moves for
sanctions against CR&R or, in the alternative, for an order compelling
CR&R comply with his demand for inspection. Performance also moves to
compel the physical examination of Plaintiff. 
II.           
PROCEDURAL
HISTORY
On October 5,
2021, Plaintiff filed his Complaint, alleging (1) Negligence; and (2) Negligent
Hiring, Training, Supervisions, and Retention. 
On November
30, 2021, CR&R filed its Answer. 
On July 7,
2022, the court granted in part Plaintiff’s Motion to Deem Request for
Admission Admitted. 
On November
9, 2022, the court deemed Plaintiff’s Motions to Compel CR&R’s discovery
responses moot and declined to award Plaintiff sanctions. 
On June 12,
2023, CR&R filed its Cross-Complaint against Performance, alleging (1)
Implied Indemnity; and (2) Express Indemnity. 
On August 28,
2023, Performance filed its Answer. 
On January
19, 2024, Travelers Property Casualty Company of America (non-party) filed a
Notice of Lien. 
On July 3,
2024, Performance filed the instant Motion to Compel Physical Examination of
Plaintiff (“Motion to Compel”). 
On July 15, 2024,
Plaintiff filed the instant Motion for Terminating Sanctions or, in the Alternative,
Motion to Comply with Plaintiff’s Demand for Inspection against CR&R
(“Motion for Sanctions”). 
On July 18,
2024, CR&R filed a Notice of Joinder to the Motion to Compel. 
On July 19,
2024, this Court granted Performance’s Ex Parte Application to Continue Trial. 
On September
19, 2024, CR&R filed its Opposition to Plaintiff’s Motion for Sanctions.
On September
19, 2024, Plaintiff filed his Opposition to Performance’s Motion to Compel. 
On September
25, 2024, Plaintiff filed his Reply to CR&R’s Opposition to his Motion for
Sanctions. 
On September
25, 2024, Performance filed its Reply to Plaintiff’s Opposition to its Motion
to Compel. 
III.        
LEGAL STANDARD 
A.            
Terminating, Issue, Evidentiary, and/or
Sanctions
On motion, if
a party “fails to obey an order compelling attendance, testimony, and
production, the court may make those orders that are just, including the
imposition of an issue sanction, an evidence sanction, or a terminating
sanction” as provided in Section 2030.010, et seq. (Code Civ. Proc. § 2025.450(h).)[1] The
“court, after notice to any affected party, person, or attorney, and after an
opportunity for hearing, may impose” monetary, issue, evidence, or terminating
sanctions “against anyone engaging in conduct that is a misuse of the discovery
process[.]” (Code Civ. Proc. § 2023.030(a)-(d).) Failing to respond or
submit to an authorized method of discovery and disobeying a court order to
provide discovery are misuses of the discovery process. (See Code
Civ. Proc. § 2023.010(d), (g).)   
B.            
Motion to Compel Physical Examination 
The Civil
Discovery Act authorizes a defendant to demand one physical examination of a
plaintiff who is seeking recovery for personal injuries. (See Code Civ.
Proc. § 2032.220.) The examination may not include “any diagnostic test or
procedure that is painful, protracted, or intrusive” and must be conducted
“within 75 miles of the residence of the examinee.” (Code Civ. Proc. §
2032.220(a).) 
The defendant
may demand the physical examination of the plaintiff under this statute without
leave of court. (See Code Civ. Proc. § 2032.220(b).) The demand for such
an exam shall identify the time, place, manner, conditions, scope, and nature
of the examination, as well as the identity and the specialty, if any, of the
physician who will perform the examination. (See Code Civ. Proc. §
2032.220(c).) The physical examination should be scheduled for a date at least
30 days after service of the demand. (See Code Civ. Proc. § 2032.220(d).)
The plaintiff
to whom a demand for a physical examination has been served should respond to
the demand within 20 days after service with a written statement that he or she
will comply with the demand as stated, will comply with the demand as
specifically modified by the plaintiff, or will refuse. (See Code Civ.
Proc. § 2032.230.) If the plaintiff fails to respond, unjustifiably refuses the
demand, or specifies a modification that the defendant finds unwarranted, the
defendant may move for an order compelling compliance with the demand. (See Code
Civ. Proc. §§ 2032.240(b), 2032.250(a).) This motion shall be accompanied by a
meet and confer declaration under Section 2016.040. (See Code Civ. Proc.
§ 2032.250(a).)
///
IV.         
ANALYSIS
There are two
motions before this Court. The Court will first address Plaintiff’s Motion for
Sanctions and will next address Performance’s Motion to Compel. 
A.            
Plaintiff’s Motion for Sanctions or, in
the Alternative, Motion to Comply with Plaintiff’s Demand for Inspection is DENIED.
Plaintiff
requests this Court impose terminating sanctions against CR&R or, if the
Court finds terminating sanctions inappropriate, issue and evidentiary
sanctions. (See Motion for Sanctions, pp. 3-4.) Plaintiff requests this
Court impose such sanctions because CR&R has previously been sanctioned for
untimely discovery responses and because CR&R ignored “Plaintiff’s repeated
requests for dates to inspect CRR’s facility” and served “a blatantly false
objection.” (Id. at 3.) In the alternative, Plaintiff requests this
Court order CR&R to permit inspection of the container at issue and its
facility pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure § 2031.310. (See id. at 7).

In
opposition, CR&R argues sanctions are inappropriate because Plaintiff
unilaterally served a demand for inspection on a date that didn’t work for
CR&R, its counsel, or Performance. (See Opposition, pg. 3.) CR&R
also argues “it was approximately one year before CR&R was placed on notice
of the incident. The location of the exact container and precise alleged defect
contributing to the subject incident are therefore impossible to locate,
inspect and/or replicate at this point. CR&R has instead offered Plaintiff
the opportunity to inspect an exemplar container and intends to do so upon
identification of an agreeable date and time.” (Id.) 
In reply,
Plaintiff reiterates that lesser sanctions are not appropriate as they “would
permit CRR and Mr. Worthe to continue to benefit from their stalling tactics”
and argues CR&R has provided no actual proof the container at issue cannot
be found, nor has it ever stated it conducted a reasonable and diligent search
but the container cannot be found. (Reply, pg. 2, fn. 3.) 
The Court
finds Plaintiff is not entitled to an order granting terminating, issue, or
evidentiary sanctions. First, Plaintiff’s allusion to prior discovery sanctions
against CR&R is unpersuasive. On July 7, 2022, a previously assigned judge
awarded Plaintiff discovery sanctions for CR&R’s failure to timely serve
responses to Plaintiff’s Requests for Admission. (See Minute Order dated
July 7, 2022.) On November 9, 2022, the court deemed Plaintiff’s remaining
discovery motions moot due to CR&R’s filing of supplemental responses and
declined to award discovery sanctions, finding they were unwarranted in
light of CR&R’s counsel’s mistake and willingness to cooperate with Plaintiff’s
counsel. (See Minute Order dated November 9, 2022.) Plaintiff does not
refer to any other previous discovery issues that would lead this Court to
believe there is a pattern of misconduct. 
The only
other basis for Plaintiff’s sanctions request is CR&R’s alleged refusal to
comply with Plaintiff’s inspection demand. But CR&R did not refuse to
provide dates; rather, CR&R and Performance objected to Plaintiff’s rushed
demands to set an inspection date. (See Declaration of Hani Ganji filed
July 15, 2024 (“Ganji Decl.”), ¶ 4, Ex. B.) Plaintiff first emailed CR&R
and Performance about an inspection on May 6, 2024, and by May 29, 2024,
Plaintiff had served a demand to inspect, even though the parties had not
agreed upon a date for the inspection. (See Ganji Decl., ¶¶ 4-5, Exs.
B-C.) The Court can understand why Plaintiff was in a hurry—the trial date was,
at that time, set for August 15, 2024. (See Ganji Decl., ¶ 5.) Plaintiff’s
decision to wait over two and half years after he filed his Complaint to issue
an inspection demand, however, is a crisis of his own making and the Court doesn’t
find CR&R’s objection based on unavailability unreasonable. Moreover,
Plaintiff’s Reply is silent as to what efforts, if any, he made after the Court
continued the trial date or how the continued trial date might impact Plaintiff’s
position. Whatever sense of urgency Plaintiff might have felt at the time he filed
his Motion for Sanctions should surely have dissipated after the trial
continuance. Similarly, Plaintiff is also silent as to whether they find
CR&R’s compromise offer of inspecting an exemplar satisfactory. At the same
time, Plaintiff hasn’t asked for an order compelling CR&R to make a further
response formally stating they have conducted a diligent search and reasonable
inquiry. Instead, Plaintiff has only used CR&R’s failure to do so as the
basis for seeking the other specific relief in their motion. 
CR&R
therefore did not disobey an order of this Court, nor did it fail to respond or
submit to an authorized method of discovery. If it has, Plaintiff did not
include such information in its Motion for Sanctions. As a result, Plaintiff’s
Motion for Sanctions is DENIED. For the same reasons, Plaintiff’s alternative
request for an order compelling CR&R to permit inspection of the container
at issue and its facility is also DENIED.
In denying
Plaintiff’s Motion for Sanctions, of course, Plaintiff is not precluded from
exploring other forms of relief to address the issue in the event the parties
are unable to resolve it. Furthermore, the Court remains ready and willing to
offer its assistance through an Informal Discovery Conference should the
parties so desire.
1.              
Sanctions 
 “The court may impose a monetary sanction ordering
that one engaging in the misuse of the discovery process, or any attorney
advising that conduct, or both pay the reasonable expenses, including
attorney’s fees, incurred by anyone as a result of that conduct.” (Code Civ.
Proc. § 2023.030(a).) Misuse of the discovery process includes “[f]ailing to
respond or to submit to an authorized method of discovery,” and “[d]isobeying¿a court order to provide discovery.” (Code Civ.
Proc. § 2023.010(d),
(g).) 
As an
alternative to his terminating, issue, or evidentiary sanctions request,
Plaintiff requests $4,060.00 in discovery sanctions. (See Motion for
Sanctions, pg. 8.) Because Plaintiff was not the prevailing party, Plaintiff’s
request is denied. 
CR&R also
requests $6,750.00 in discovery sanctions. Although CR&R prevailed, the
Court finds Plaintiff acted with substantial justification in bringing its Motion
for Sanctions in light of the totality of the circumstances. Accordingly, the
Court denies CR&R’s request for sanctions as well.
B.            
Performance’s Motion to Compel the
Physical Examination of Plaintiff is DENIED
Performance moves
to compel Plaintiff submit to a physical examination pursuant to Code of Civil
Procedure §§ 2032.250(a) and 2032.220(a). Performance argues it has complied
with its meet and confer requirements but that Plaintiff has continually, since
November 17, 2023, refused to submit to an examination on the basis that the notice
improperly omits the specific tests and procedures to be performed. (See Motion
to Compel, pp. 3-6; Declaration of April Cristal filed July 3, 2024 (“Cristal
Decl.”), ¶¶ 4-13, Exs. B-E.) Performance argues Plaintiff’s refusal is
misplaced, as notices for mental examinations require a list of
diagnostic tests but notices for physical examinations do not. (See Motion
to Compel, pg. 9.) 
In
opposition, Plaintiff argues “to conduct one physical exam without a court
order, a defendant must ‘specify the . . . manner, conditions, scope, and
nature of the examination[.]’” (Opposition, pg. 4 (quoting Code Civ. Proc. § 2032.220(c)).)
Plaintiff also argues Performance’s Motion to Compel is untimely pursuant to Code
of Civil Procedure § 2031.310(c), which requires “a motion to compel a defense
medical examination…be made within 45 days of a response.” (Opposition, pg. 4.)

In reply,
Performance again argues its notice is code compliant and notes, though not at
issue, Performance’s notice is for an exam within 75 miles of the residence of
Plaintiff. (See Reply, pg. 2, fn. 1.) Performance also argues its Motion
to Compel is timely as it is brought under Code of Civil Procedure § 2032.250,
not § 2031.310, and § 2032.250 does not have the same timing requirements as §
2031.310. (See Reply, pg. 3.) 
The Court
finds Performance is not entitled to an order compelling Plaintiff submit to a
physical examination for failure to properly meet and confer pursuant to Code
of Civil Procedure § 2016.040. As an initial matter, Performance’s Motion to
Compel is not untimely for the reasons it listed. However, pursuant to Code of
Civil Procedure 2032.220(c), requiring a notice “identify the time, place,
manner, conditions, scope, and nature of the examination,” it is reasonable for
Plaintiff to demand more information besides Performance’s general notice that “[t]he
examination to be conducted of Plaintiff consists of an orthopedic examination
of Plaintiff's affected bodily areas as Plaintiff has claimed in this case,
which are the subject of this litigation.” (Cristal Decl., ¶ 5, Ex. C.) In the
correspondence provided to this Court it appears Performance’s counsel has refused
(since November 2023) to further detail what tests their chosen medical
provider will perform. (See Cristal Decl. ¶¶ 4-13, Exs. B-E.) Indeed,
Performance does not further outline what testing will take place even in the
instant Motion to Compel. Such failures indicate a lack of true meeting and
conferring because meeting and conferring in good faith involves coming up with
collaborative and creative solutions to try and resolve the dispute at hand.
The correspondence provided to the Court reflects Performance’s counsel made no
such effort. Instead, Performance’s counsel simply dug in and refused to budge
from a position that does not have any credible legal support. 
The Court DENIES
Performance’s Motion to Compel. 
1.              
Sanctions 
 “The court may impose a monetary sanction ordering
that one engaging in the misuse of the discovery process, or any attorney
advising that conduct, or both pay the reasonable expenses, including
attorney’s fees, incurred by anyone as a result of that conduct.” (Code Civ.
Proc. § 2023.030(a).) Misuse of the discovery process includes “[f]ailing to
respond or to submit to an authorized method of discovery,” and “[d]isobeying¿a court order to provide discovery.” (Code Civ.
Proc. § 2023.010(d),
(g).) 
Because
Performance was not the prevailing party, Performance’s request for sanctions
is denied. 
Plaintiff
also requests $3,000.00 in discovery sanctions, which accounts for (1) hour to
meet and confer, (3) hours to draft the instant Opposition, and (2) hours to review
Performance’s Reply and prepare for/appear at the hearing, at a billing rate of
$500.00/hr.  The Court finds Performance’s
counsel has misused the discovery process as defined by Code Civ. Proc. §
2023.010(i) because she failed to properly meet and confer in good faith prior
to filing its Motion to Compel.
The Court
finds Plaintiff’s counsel’s hourly rate reasonable given the prevailing rates
in the Greater Los Angeles area for attorneys with his experience. However, the
Court finds the number of hours requested to be inflated. Thus, the Court finds
it appropriate to reduce Plaintiff’s counsel’s requested sanctions to $2,060.00,
which accounts for (1) hour to meet and confer, (2) hours to draft the instant
Opposition, and (1) hour to prepare for and attend the hearing, plus the $60.00
filing fee. 
Based on the
foregoing, the Court DENIES Performance’s Motion to Compel and orders Performance’s
counsel to pay Plaintiff’s counsel $1,560.00 in discovery sanctions on or
before October 31, 2024. 
V.            
CONCLUSION
Based on the
foregoing, the Court DENIES Plaintiff’s Motion for Sanctions and denies both
Plaintiff’s and CR&R’s requests for monetary sanctions in connection with it.
 
The Court
also DENIES Performance’s Motion to Compel. However, the Court grants Plaintiff’s
request for monetary sanctions in connection with it and orders Performance’s
counsel to pay Plaintiff’s counsel $2,060.00 in discovery sanctions on or
before October 31, 2024. 
IT IS SO
ORDERED.
DATED:      October 3, 2024



Hon. Michael R. Amerian
Judge,
  Superior Court





