  Case Number:  22AHCV00668    Hearing Date:   August 13, 2024    Dept:  3 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF  CALIFORNIA  FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - NORTHEAST  DISTRICT      CAFÉ ON LEMON, INC.,                      Plaintiff(s),           vs.   LOUIS     PETRIE SEPARATE PROPERTY TRUST,    et al.,                       Defendant(s),   ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) )         CASE NO.: 22AHCV00688   [TENTATIVE]    ORDER RE: DEFENDANT LOUIS PETRIE SEPARATE PROPERTY TRUST’S DEMURRER     TO THIRD AMENDED COMPLAINT    Dept.    3 8:30    a.m. August 13,     2024      I.      INTRODUCTION           On September 8, 2022,  plaintiff Café on Lemon, Inc. (“Plaintiff”) filed this action against Gina  Fanara (“Fanara”), Kevin Tang (“Tang”), and Dilys Jones (“Jones”), as Trustee  of the Louis C. Petrie Separate Property Trust (“LP Trust”) (erroneously sued  as “Louis Petrie Separate Property Trust”).    On January 2, 2024, Plaintiff  filed the operative Third Amended Complaint (“TAC”).  On March 6, 2024, Jones, as  the Trustee of LP Trust, filed a demurrer to the TAC’s second and third causes  of action for intentional and negligent interference with prospective economic  relations. Jones also filed a motion to strike the TAC’s prayer for punitive  damages.  Plaintiff belatedly served  its opposition brief to the demurrer on July 19, 2024. Its opposition brief was  due on July 11, 2024.  On July 23, 2024, Defendant  filed a reply brief in support of their demurrer.  On July 24, 2024, Plaintiff  filed the opposition brief that it previously served. Jones asks this Court to  disregard the opposition brief as untimely and, in light of the lack of any  explanation for the tardy filing, the Court exercises its discretion to  disregard the untimely brief pursuant to CRC 3.1300, subd. (d).) The Court  additionally notes that even if it considered the untimely brief, it does not  address any of the arguments made in the demurrer. First, Plaintiff addresses a  nonexistent demurrer to the breach of contract claim. (Opp., p. 5.) Second,  Plaintiff relies on a wholly irrelevant quotation of the Court’s  previously-issued minute order. (Opp., pp. 5-6.) Therefore, regardless of  whether the Court considers the untimely opposition brief, the arguments made  are irrelevant.  II.     LEGAL  STANDARD A demurrer may be brought if  insufficient facts are stated to support the cause of action asserted. (Code  Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subd. (e).) “We treat the demurrer as admitting all  material facts properly pleaded but not contentions, deductions or conclusions  of fact or law. We accept the factual allegations of the complaint as true and  also consider matters which may be judicially noticed. [Citation.]” (Mitchell  v. California Department of Public Health (2016) 1 Cal.App.5th 1000, 1007; Del  E. Webb Corp. v. Structural Materials Co. (1981) 123 Cal.App.3d 593, 604  [“the facts alleged in the pleading are deemed to be true, however improbable  they may be”].) Allegations are to be liberally construed. (Code Civ. Proc., §  452.)  Leave to amend must be allowed  where there is a reasonable possibility of successful amendment. (Goodman v.  Kennedy (1976) 18 Cal.3d 335, 348.) The burden is on the complainant to  show the Court that a pleading can be amended successfully. (Ibid.) III.    DISCUSSION Jones demurs to Plaintiff’s second and  third causes of action for intentional and negligent interference with  prospective economic relations. The elements of a claim for interference with  prospective economic relations include “(1) an economic relationship between  the plaintiff and some third party, with the probability of future economic  benefit to the plaintiff; (2) the defendant’s knowledge of the relationship;  (3) intentional or negligent acts on the part of the defendant designed to  disrupt the relationship; (4) actual disruption of the relationship; and (5)  economic harm to the plaintiff proximately caused by the acts of the  defendant.” (Crown Imports, LLC v. Superior Court (2014) 223 Cal.App.4th  1395, 1404, citations, brackets, and quotation marks omitted.) The alleged  interference must be unlawful “by some measure beyond the fact of the  interference itself.” (Ibid.)  This is Plaintiff’s fourth attempt to  plead claims for interference with prospective economic relations. The Court  previously sustained Jones’s demurrer to these claims asserted in the Second  Amended complaint and stated that Plaintiff had not adequately alleged wrongful  conduct because there were no allegations that it relied on the alleged  misrepresentations made by Jones to its detriment. In the TAC, Plaintiff  remedied this issue by adding paragraphs 34 and 42 of the TAC, which allege a  multitude of topics on which Jones made various “misrepresentations” without explaining  how any of them were actually false or that they caused Plaintiff any harm. Jones  points out that the Lease, which is attached as an exhibit to the TAC, states  that an assignment does not relieve a tenant of its obligations under the  lease. Therefore, even if Arakleyan had purchased the business, Plaintiff would  not have been able to “get[] out of the lease.” (TAC, ¶¶ 34, 42.) Plaintiff  also fails to allege what kind of misrepresentations were made by Jones  regarding the type of information Arakleyan would need to provide or the amount  Arakleyan would need to pay, nor does Plaintiff allege how Jones ratified any  actions taken by Fanara. Plaintiff also does not allege facts supporting its  claim that it relied on any of Jones’s unspecified misrepresentations to its  detriment. Instead, Plaintiff only alleges that it did not attempt to find  alternate buyers for its business without alleging that alternate buyers  existed.  Ultimately, Plaintiff’s action is one  which stems from an alleged breach of contract. The alleged interference is the  same conduct underlying Plaintiff’s allegation that Jones breached Paragraph 36  of the Lease by unreasonably withholding or delaying consent to an assignment  of the Lease to Arakelyan.  Therefore,  the fundamental basis for the Second and Third Causes of Action sounds in  contract, not tort. (See JRS Products, Inc. v. Matsushita Electric  Corp. of America (2004) 115 Cal.App.4th 168, 183.)   V.     CONCLUSION Jones’s Demurrer is SUSTAINED as to the  Second and Third Causes of Action.  Because the Court sustains the  demurrer, the motion to strike allegations of fraud, malice, and oppression and  request for punitive damages in paragraph 34 is MOOT.    Moving party to give notice.     Dated  this 13th  day of August 2024                     William A. Crowfoot Judge of the Superior Court           Parties who intend to submit on this  tentative must send an email to the Court at ALHDEPT3@lacourt.org indicating  intention to submit on the tentative as directed by the instructions provided  on the court website at www.lacourt.org. Please be advised that if you submit  on the tentative and elect not to appear at the hearing, the opposing party may  nevertheless appear at the hearing and argue the matter. Unless you receive a  submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume that others  might appear at the hearing to argue. If the Court does not receive emails from  the parties indicating submission on this tentative ruling and there are no  appearances at the hearing, the Court may, at its discretion, adopt the  tentative as the final order or place the motion off calendar.  SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA 

FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - NORTHEAST
DISTRICT

 




CAFÉ ON LEMON, INC., 
                   Plaintiff(s),
          vs.
 
LOUIS
   PETRIE SEPARATE PROPERTY TRUST, et al.,
 
                   Defendant(s).


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
  )


      CASE NO.: 22AHCV00668
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: DEFENDANT DILYS JONES’ MOTION TO COMPEL 
 
Dept.
  3
8:30
  a.m.
August
   13, 2024




 

On January 4,
 2024, defendant Dilys Jones (“Defendant”), as trustee of the Louis Petrie
 Separate Property Trust, served Special Interrogatories, Set One, on
plaintiff Café on Lemon, Inc. (“Plaintiff”). Plaintiff did not serve responses
and Defendant filed this motion on April 2, 2024. The motion is unopposed. 

Where a party fails to serve timely
responses to discovery requests, the court may make an order compelling
responses. (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 2030.290, 2031.300; Healthcare Consulting, Inc. v. Pacific Healthcare Consultants (2007)
148 Cal.App.4th 390, 403.) A party that fails to serve timely responses waives
any objections to the request, including ones based on privilege or the
protection of attorney work product. (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 2030.290, subd. (a),
2031.300, subd. (a).) 

Plaintiff
did not oppose the Motion and it is undisputed responses were not served. Defendant’s
motion is GRANTED and Plaintiff is ordered to serve verified responses
without objections to Special Interrogatories, Set One within 20 days of the date
of this Order. 

No sanctions are imposed on Plaintiff
as Defendant did not request them. 

 

Moving party to give notice.

 

 

Dated
this 13th
day of August 2024

 






 


 




 


William A. Crowfoot 
Judge of the Superior Court
 






 

Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at ALHDEPT3@lacourt.org indicating
intention to submit on the tentative as directed by the instructions provided
on the court website at www.lacourt.org. Please be advised that if you submit
on the tentative and elect not to appear at the hearing, the opposing party may
nevertheless appear at the hearing and argue the matter. Unless you receive a
submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume that others
might appear at the hearing to argue. If the Court does not receive emails from the parties
indicating submission on this tentative ruling and there are no appearances at
the hearing, the Court may, at its discretion, adopt the tentative as the final
order or place the motion off calendar.

 