 Case Number:  22AHCV00806    Hearing Date:   August 13, 2024    Dept:  3 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - NORTHEAST
DISTRICT
 



LING CHEN,
                    Plaintiff(s),
          vs.
 
BO TAI
   GROUP, et al., 
 
                    Defendant(s).


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


      CASE NO.: 22AHCV00806
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: DEFENDANT IVY ZIHAN GENG’S MOTION FOR SUMMARY
  JUDGMENT/SUMMARY ADJUDICATION
 
 
Dept.
  3
8:30
  a.m.
August
   13, 2024




 


 


 



 
I.           
INTRODUCTION 
On October 1,
2022, plaintiff Ling Chen (“Plaintiff”) filed this action against defendants
Zihan Geng (“Defendant”), Bo Tai Group (“BTG”), and Yong Han (“Han”). Plaintiff
asserts causes of action for breach of oral contract, breach of written
contract, money had and received, money lent, and unjust enrichment. 
On March 28,
2024, Defendant filed this motion for summary judgment. In the alternative,
Defendant seeks summary adjudication of the Second, Third, Fourth, and Fifth
Causes of Action. 
II.         
FACTUAL ALLEGATIONS
In or about August 2021, Han told
Plaintiff that several containers of gloves shipped to BTG were withheld by customs
and BTG needed $73,000 for a security deposit in order to release them.
(Compl., ¶ 7.) Han allegedly orally promised to pay back the amount when the
containers were released and Plaintiff lent Han the money (“First Loan
Agreement”). The containers were released in or about September 2021, but Han
refused to repay Plaintiff in accordance with the First Loan Agreement.  
In or around December 2021, Han told
Plaintiff that BTG needed money to have a minimum amount deposited in its bank
account in order to submit a bid to supply gloves to “Home Depo.” (Compl., ¶
10.) On December 22, 2021, Plaintiff lent BTG $1.3 million as evidenced in a
written Loan Agreement (“Second Loan Agreement”). (Compl., Ex. 1.) Han agreed
to personally guarantee BTG’s timely repayment of the money and Defendant
allegedly agreed to personally guarantee BTG’s timely repayment “according to
her pro rata ownership of BTG.” (Compl., ¶ 12.) BTG breached the terms of the
Second Loan Agreement by failing and refusing to repay Plaintiff $1.3 million
by February 28, 2022. (Compl., ¶ 13.) Han and Defendant also failed to honor
their personal guarantees. (Compl., ¶ 14.) 
III.       
LEGAL STANDARD
In reviewing a motion for summary
judgment, courts must apply a three-step analysis: “(1) identify the issues
framed by the pleadings; (2) determine whether the moving party has negated the
opponent’s claims; and (3) determine whether the opposition has demonstrated
the existence of a triable, material factual issue.” (Hinesley v. Oakshade Town Center (2005) 135 Cal.App.4th 289, 294.) A
defendant moving for summary judgment or summary adjudication “has met his or
her burden of showing that a cause of action has no merit if the party has
shown that one or more elements of the cause of action . . . cannot be
established, or that there is a complete defense to the cause of action.” (Code
Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (p)(2).) To meet this burden of showing a cause of
action cannot be established, a defendant must show not only “that the
plaintiff does not possess needed evidence” but also that “the plaintiff
cannot reasonably obtain needed evidence.” (Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 854.) A moving
defendant need not conclusively negate an element of plaintiff’s cause of
action, but it is insufficient for the defendant to merely point out the
absence of evidence. (Id. at p. 854; Gaggero v. Yura (2003) 108
Cal.App.4th 884, 891.) The supporting evidence can be in the form of
affidavits, declarations, admissions, depositions, answers to interrogatories,
and matters of which judicial notice may be taken. (Aguilar, supra, 25 Cal.4th at p. 855.) “Once the
defendant . . . has met that burden, the burden shifts to the plaintiff . . .
to show that a triable issue of one or more material facts exists as to the
cause of action or a defense thereto.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (p)(2).)
The plaintiff may not merely rely on allegations or denials of its pleadings to
show that a triable issue of material fact exists, but instead, “shall set
forth the specific facts showing that a triable issue of material fact exists
as to the cause of action.” (Ibid.)
“If the plaintiff cannot do so, summary judgment should be granted.” (Avivi v. Centro Medico Urgente Medical
Center (2008) 159 Cal.App.4th 463, 467.)
“A party may move for summary
adjudication as to one or more causes of action within an action, one or more
affirmative defenses, one or more claims for damages, or one or more issues of
duty, if that party contends that the cause of action has no merit or that
there is no affirmative defense thereto, or that there is no merit to an
affirmative defense as to any cause of action, or both, or that there is no
merit to a claim for damages . . . or that one or more defendants either owed
or did not owe a duty to the plaintiff or plaintiffs. A motion for summary
adjudication shall be granted only if it completely disposes of a cause of
action, an affirmative defense, a claim for damages, or an issue of duty.”
(Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (f)(1).) A motion for summary adjudication
shall proceed in all procedural respects as a motion for summary judgment.  (Id., subd. (f)(2).)  
IV.       
EVIDENTIARY OBJECTIONS AND REQUESTS FOR
JUDICIAL NOTICE
Defendant
requests judicial notice of BTG’s filings with the Secretary of State and a
judgment issued by the Orange County Superior Court in the case entitled Geng
v. Han (Case No. 30-2030-01310230-CU-FR-CJC). The request is GRANTED. 
Plaintiff
objects to portions of the Declaration of David Yu based on lack of personal
knowledge, foundation, speculation, and hearsay. Objections to the description
of bank records attached to Yu’s declaration are OVERRULED to the extent that
they were produced in response to a subpoena and accompanied by an executed
affidavit of the deponent’s custodian of records. Exhibit C includes an
unexecuted declaration from the deponent’s custodian of records. Therefore, Objection
No. 1, 2, 3, 7, and 13 are SUSTAINED to the extent the evidence objected to
relies on Exhibit C. All other objections are OVERRULED because the bank
records are business records which are not subject to the hearsay rule; they
are also accompanied by an executed affidavit from the custodian of records. 
All 7 of Plaintiff’s
objections to Defendant’s declaration are OVERRULED. Defendant has personal
knowledge of events which she experienced and the actions she took and
testimony of those events and actions is not speculative, irrelevant, or
hearsay.  
V.         
DISCUSSION 
A.  
Second
Cause of Action for Breach of Written Contract
Geng declares that on or about December
22, 2021, she signed the personal guarantee in the Second Loan Agreement on
Han’s orders. (Geng Decl., ¶ 3.) She declares that she initially declined to
sign it but Han threatened to kill her. (Id., ¶ 5.) She also states that
Han “convinced [her] that the attorneys had already prepared the loan document
and that he had already promised [Plaintiff] that [she] would also personally
agree to guarantee the loan.” (Ibid.) 
She claims that she signed the Second Loan Agreement under physical
duress and that Han agreed to indemnify her for the loan. (Ibid.) She
agreed to sign the loan agreement but requested that her guarantee be limited
to the percentage of ownership she might have in BTG. (Id., ¶ 6.) She
said prior to signing the Second Loan Agreement, Han had promised her that she
would become a shareholder of BTG. 
It is undisputed that the Second Loan
Agreement, which sets forth Defendant’s obligations, provides that Defendant
will “personally guarantee the timely return of the Loan on the Lender
according to her pro rata shareholder interest in [BTG[.” (UMF No. 3.) Defendant
argues that she is not liable for any amount under the Second Loan Agreement
because she does not own any shares of BTG. (Geng Decl., ¶ 8.) She states that
Han told her that she was his secretary, which is why the Second Loan Agreement
refers to her as a secretary. (Ibid.) She claims that she was not an
officer and that BTG’s Statement of Information and Articles of Incorporation
do not identify her as an officer, and she never had and was never given any
control over BTG’s bank account which received Plaintiff’s money. (Geng Decl.,
¶ 9.) 
In opposition, Plaintiff claims that
Defendant’s arguments are precluded by the doctrine of estoppel by contract and
the parol evidence rule. Neither are applicable. First, the Second Loan
Agreement explicitly states that Defendant is only liable according to her pro
rata interest in BTG. Plaintiff introduces no evidence that Defendant has any
shareholder interest in BTG. Plaintiff’s reliance on Defendant’s discovery
responses are insufficient to raise a triable issue of material fact because
Defendant only stated on information and belief that “HAN was always the sole
shareholder of [BTG]” and “if HAN did actually provide the 5% interest of [BTG]
to [nonparty] UTV, [Defendant] would own 2.45% shareholder interest in [BTG]
through UTV.” (Xuan Decl. ¶ 2.) Defendant’s discovery response is not evidence that
she owns any shares of BTG because there is no evidence that any transaction
between BTG and UTV occurred. Also, Defendant’s status as a secretary is
irrelevant because Plaintiff offers no authority stating that the officer of a
corporation is necessarily the shareholder of a corporation. 
B.  
Third,
Fourth, and Fifth Causes of Action
 Defendant
argues that Plaintiff’s third, fourth, and fifth causes of action for money had
and received, money lent, and unjust enrichment, respectively fail because she
never received any of the money Plaintiff lent to BTG and had no access to the
accounts which received the money lent pursuant to the Second Loan Agreement. (Geng
Decl., ¶¶ 9, 10; UMF Nos. 11-13.) Defendant’s declaration is sufficient to make
a prima facie showing that Plaintiff cannot establish her third, fourth, and
fifth causes of action. In opposition, Plaintiff “disputes” these facts but
offers no evidence in her separate statement to contradict Defendant’s
declaration. Accordingly, Plaintiff fails to raise a triable issue of fact with
respect to her third, fourth, and fifth causes of action. 
VI.    CONCLUSION
          In light of
the foregoing, the motion for summary judgment is GRANTED.
 
Moving party to give notice.  
 
Dated
this 13th
day of August
2024 
 




 


 




 


William A. Crowfoot
Judge of the Superior Court




 
 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at ALHDEPT3@lacourt.org indicating
intention to submit on the tentative as directed by the instructions provided
on the court website at www.lacourt.org. 
Please be advised that if you submit on the tentative and elect not to appear
at the hearing, the opposing party may nevertheless appear at the hearing and
argue the matter.  Unless you receive a
submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume that others
might appear at the hearing to argue.  If
the Court does not receive emails from the parties indicating submission on
this tentative ruling and there are no appearances at the hearing, the Court
may, at its discretion, adopt the tentative as the final order or place the
motion off calendar.
 