  Case Number:  23GDCV00711    Hearing Date:   June 14, 2024    Dept:  E Hearing Date:  06/14/2024 – 8:30am
Case No: 23GDCV00711
Trial Date: N/A
Case Name: HEALTHY LIFE PHYSICAL THERAPY, INC., a
California corporation v. ERG HOME HEALTH PROVIDER, INC., a California
corporation; MARIA ISABEL BELZUNCE, an individual; and DOES 1-20 inclusive
 
[TENTATIVE RULING ON
MOTION TO AMEND JUDGMENT]
Moving Party:  Plaintiff, Healthy Life
Physical Therapy, Inc.
Responding Party: No
response by either Defendant.
RELIEF REQUESTED
“Plaintiff HEALTHY LIFE PHYSICAL THERAPY, INC., (the “PLAINTIFF”) pursuant to
California Code of Civil Procedure §473(d), will and hereby does move this
court for an order amending nunc pro tunc the judgment entered on May 6,
2024 (the “JUDGMENT”) in the following manner:
 
-         
The JUDGMENT, by
clerical mistake of PLAINTIFF’s attorney, inadvertently represented the
Defendant ERG HOME HEALTH PROVIDER, INC.’s (the “DEFENDANT”) as “ERG HOME
HEALTH, INC.”
 
-         
The moving party
requests that this court amend the JUDGMENT to reflect the correct version of
DEFENDANT’s name on the Judicial Council Form JUD-100 that PLAINTIFF resubmits
with this motion as EXHIBIT B.
 
This motion is made on the grounds that this
clerical error prevents PLAINTIFF from obtaining a Writ of Execution to enforce
the JUDGMENT. This Motion to Amend Judgment to Correct Clerical Error will be
based on this notice, the memorandum of points and authorities, Michael
Guloyan’s declaration filed herewith, and on such other and further oral and/or
documentary evidence as may be presented at the hearing on the motion.”
 
(Pl. Mot. p. 2.)
 
Procedural
16/21
Day Lapse (CCP § 12c and § 1005(b)): No
Proof of Service Timely Filed (CRC, Rule 3.1300): Ok
Correct Address (CCP § 1013, § 1013a): Uncertain because neither Defendant
appeared/answered
 
Moving Papers: Notice/Motion; Guloyan Declaration
Opposition Papers: No Opposition
Reply Papers: No Reply


ANALYSIS
Plaintiff filed its Complaint on
4/7/2023 against ERG Home Health Provider, Inc., a California corporation;
Maria Isabel Belzunce, an individual; and Does 1-20 inclusive. The Complaint
alleges five causes of action.
On 5/6/2024,
this Court entered default judgment against the Defendants listed on the
JUD-100 form that Plaintiff submitted to the Court. On Plaintiff’s JUD-100
form, Plaintiff’s counsel listed the Defendants as “ERG Home Health, In a
California corporation” and “Maria I. Belzunce.”
Plaintiff
now moves under CCP § 473(d) to correct the name of “ERG HOME HEALTH, Inc.” to
“ERG HOME HEALTH PROVIDER, INC., a California corporation” as listed on the
Complaint.
CCP
§ 1005(b)
CCP § 1005(b) requires notice of 16 court days before the hearing. If notice is
served by mail, the 16-day period of notice is increased five calendar days if
the place of mailing and the place of address are within the State of
California. (See CCP § 1005(b).)
Here,
Plaintiff’s moving papers were served by U.S. Mail on May 22, 2024. The instant
hearing is for Friday, June 14, 2024. Sixteen court days would be May 22, 2024;
therefore, Plaintiff’s motion is not timely. Plaintiff did not account for the
5 calendar days for mailing the moving papers.
CCP
§ 473(d)
“The court may, upon motion of the
injured party, or its own motion, correct clerical mistakes in its judgment or
orders as entered, so as to conform to the judgment or order directed, and may,
on motion of either party after notice to the other party, set aside any void
judgment or order.” (CCP § 473(d).)
Plaintiff
moves to correct one the Defendant’s name that was listed on the JUD-100 form
that Plaintiff filed for when default judgment was entered against Defendants. 
Plaintiff’s
Complaint listed the Defendant at issue as ERG Home Health Provider, Inc., a
California corporation; however, when Plaintiff filed the JUD-100 form that the
Court signed, Plaintiff listed the Defendant as ERG Home Health, Inc., a
California corporation.
Plaintiff explains
that listing the Defendant’s incorrect name prevents Plaintiff from obtaining a
Writ of Execution.
Plaintiff’s
counsel’s declaration states that he inadvertently left out the word “Provider”
when  he filled out the JUD-100 form.
The Court
notes that Plaintiff did not provide any case law as to what is considered a
“clerical mistake” or “clerical error” and if an attorney’s clerical mistake in
filling out default judgment paperwork is considered a “clerical mistake” under
473(d).
Based on the
Court’s own research, the Court found the following case law with respect to
what is considered a “clerical error” under 473(d) :
“A
clerical error in the judgment includes inadvertent errors made by the court
‘which cannot reasonably be attributed to the exercise of judicial
consideration or discretion.’ [Citations.] ‘Clerical error ... is to be
distinguished from judicial error which cannot be corrected by amendment. The distinction
between clerical error and judicial error is “whether the error was made in
rendering the judgment, or in recording the judgment rendered.” [Citation.] Any
attempt by a court, under the guise of correcting clerical error, to “revise
its deliberately exercised judicial discretion” is not permitted. [Citation.]’
[Citation.] A judicial error is the deliberate result of judicial reasoning and
determination.” (Conservatorship of Tobias, supra, 208 Cal.App.3d at pp.
1034-1035, 256 Cal.Rptr. 525.) “ ‘The term “clerical error” covers all errors,
mistakes, or omissions which are not the result of the exercise of the judicial
function. If an error, mistake, or omission is the result of inadvertence, but
for which a different judgment would have been rendered, the error is clerical
and the judgment may be corrected ....’ ” (Id. at p. 1035, 256
Cal.Rptr. 525.)
(Estate of Douglas (2022) 83 Cal.App.5th 690, 695.)
TENTATIVE RULING
The Court is considering either denying the
motion without prejudice or continuing the instant hearing based on Plaintiff
not providing proper notice under CCP § 1005(b). Plaintiff did not consider the
5 calendar days that must be added to the 16 court days.
Upon continuance or the filing of a new motion, it would likely aid
the Court if Plaintiff presented case law supporting the proposition that the
Court can correct the attorney’s error in the instant scenario under CCP § 473(d).

Further, the Court seeks clarification as to what Plaintiff means in
its motion by “…requests the Court grant this motion and order the clerk of
court file an amended judgment with the correct version of Defendant ERG’s name
attached as “Exhibit B” in the Declaration of Michael Guloyan.” (Pl. Mot. p.
3.)


