 Case Number:  22STCV06412    Hearing Date:   August 7, 2024    Dept:  B SEVAK
BABOUMIAN v. MYNOR RENE ORELLANA 
 
MOTION: 
 
Date of Hearing:  August
7, 2024                               Trial Date: October 15, 2024
Department:                B                                             Case
No.:        22STCV06412
 
Moving Party:             Defendant Mynor Rene Orellana
Responding
Party:      N/A
 

 

BACKGROUND
            
Factual and Procedural
Background
            On
February 18, 2022, Sevak Baboumian (Plaintiff) filed a Complaint for motor
vehicle negligence after a February 24, 2020 automobile collision. Plaintiff
filed suit against Mynor Rene Orellana (Orellana), Uber Technologies, Raiser
LLC, and Raiser-CA LLC. The motion now before the Court is Defendant Orellana’s
Motion to Continue Trial (Motion). No opposition was filed. 
                                                                                                      
Tentative Ruling
            Defendant
Mynor Rene Orellana’s Motion to Continue Trial is GRANTED. Trial
shall commence on or after May 19, 2025.
 
DISCUSSION
 
Legal Standard
            California Rules of Court,
rule 3.1332, subdivision (c) states that although disfavored, the trial date
may be continued for “good cause,” which includes (without limitation): 
 
(1) The unavailability of an essential lay or expert
witness because of death, illness, or other excusable circumstances;
(2) The unavailability of a party because of death,
illness, or other excusable circumstances;
(3) The unavailability of trial counsel because of
death, illness, or other excusable circumstances;
(4) The substitution of trial counsel, but only where
there is an affirmative showing that the substitution is required in the
interests of justice;
(5) The addition of a new party if:
            (A) The new
party has not had a reasonable opportunity to conduct discovery and prepare for
trial; or
            (B) The
other parties have not had a reasonable opportunity to conduct discovery and
prepare for trial in regard to the new party's involvement in the case;
(6) A party's excused inability to obtain essential
testimony, documents, or other material evidence despite diligent efforts; or
(7) A significant, unanticipated change in the status
of the case as a result of which the case is not ready for trial.
(Id., Rule 3.1332(c).)¿¿¿ 
 
            The court
may also consider the following factors: “(1) The proximity of the trial date;
(2) Whether there was any previous continuance, extension of time, or delay of
trial due to any party; (3) The length of the continuance requested; (4) The
availability of alternative means to address the problem that gave rise to the
motion or application for a continuance; (5) The prejudice that parties or
witnesses will suffer as a result of the continuance; (6) If the case is
entitled to a preferential trial setting, the reasons for that status and
whether the need for a continuance outweighs the need to avoid delay; (7) The
court's calendar and the impact of granting a continuance on other pending
trials; (8) Whether trial counsel is engaged in another trial; (9) Whether all
parties have stipulated to a continuance; (10) Whether the interests of justice
are best served by a continuance, by the trial of the matter, or by imposing
conditions on the continuance; and (11) Any other fact or circumstance relevant
to the fair determination of the motion or application.” (Cal. Rules of Court
3.1332(d).)¿¿ ¿ 
 
Analysis
            Orellana requests a continuance from
the currently scheduled October 15, 2024 trial date to a date on or after May
19, 2025 because of discovery delays. Orellana argues that she was not served
until August 14, 2023, although the case commenced on February 18, 2022.
Orellana then served discovery, but because of the failure of the responding
party to respond, Orellana had to file motions to compel written discovery,
which were not heard until May 8, 2024. Moreover, Orellana intends to engage in
additional discovery including depositions.
 
            California
Rules of Court, rule 3.1332, subdivision (c) is clear that the necessity to
complete critical discovery, which could not be completed earlier through no
fault of the moving party are proper grounds to grant a motion to continue
trial. Therefore, with no opposition, and no prejudice to the opposition, the
Motion is granted. 
 
CONCLUSION
             Defendant Mynor Rene Orellana’s Motion to
Continue Trial is GRANTED. Trial shall commence on or after May
19, 2025. 
 
Moving party to give notice. 