 Case Number:  21STCV47521    Hearing Date:   August 7, 2024    Dept:  B Brittany
moore v. thomas cruz, et al. 
 
MOTION to continue trial 
 
Date of Hearing:         August 7, 2024                        Trial
Date:       October 18, 2024
Department:                B                                             Case
No.:        21STCV47521                                                                                                (Consolidated
with Case No.                                                                                                  22STCV01166)
 
Moving Party:             Defendants Alvaro Alarcon, Uber
Technologies, Inc., Rasier LLC;                                     and Rasier-CA LLC.
Responding
Party:      Plaintiffs Brittany Moore and
Tomas Antonio Cruz  
 

 

BACKGROUND
            
Factual and Procedural
Background
            On
December 20, 2021, Brittany Moore (Moore) filed this action against
defendants Tomas Cruz (Cruz),
Alvaro Alarcon (Alarcon), Uber Technologies, Inc. (Uber), Rasier LLC (Rasier),
Raiser-CA LLC (Rasier CA), and Does 1-50 for injuries arising from a motor
vehicle collision. This matter was consolidated with Tomas Antonio Cruz vs.
Alvaro E. Alarcon, et al. Case No. 22STCV01166. (Joint Stip. & Order, May
21, 2023.) Trial was initially set for May 30, 2024, however, on March 26, 2024
the Court granted a motion to continue trial filed by Uber, Rasier, and Rasier
CA because of outstanding discovery issues. Alarcon joined that motion. Trial was
continued to the currently set date of October 18, 2024.
 
            The
motion now before the Court is a Motion to Continue Trial (Motion), filed by
Alarcon and joined by Uber, Rasier, and Rasier CA (Moving Parties). Moore and
Cruz oppose the Motion, Moving Parties file a reply.  
                                                                                                      
Tentative Ruling
             The Motion to Continue Trial filed by filed by
Alarcon and joined by Uber, Rasier, and Rasier CA is GRANTED. The
trial date and all related discovery dates are continued by five months.
 
DISCUSSION
 
Legal Standard
            California Rules of Court,
rule 3.1332, subdivision (c) states that although disfavored, the trial date
may be continued for “good cause,” which includes (without limitation): 
 
(1) The unavailability of an essential lay or expert
witness because of death, illness, or other excusable circumstances;
(2) The unavailability of a party because of death,
illness, or other excusable circumstances;
(3) The unavailability of trial counsel because of
death, illness, or other excusable circumstances;
(4) The substitution of trial counsel, but only where
there is an affirmative showing that the substitution is required in the
interests of justice;
(5) The addition of a new party if:
            (A) The new
party has not had a reasonable opportunity to conduct discovery and prepare for
trial; or
            (B) The
other parties have not had a reasonable opportunity to conduct discovery and
prepare for trial in regard to the new party's involvement in the case;
(6) A party's excused inability to obtain essential
testimony, documents, or other material evidence despite diligent efforts; or
(7) A significant, unanticipated change in the status
of the case as a result of which the case is not ready for trial.
(Id., Rule 3.1332(c).)¿¿¿ 
 
            The court
may also consider the following factors: “(1) The proximity of the trial date;
(2) Whether there was any previous continuance, extension of time, or delay of
trial due to any party; (3) The length of the continuance requested; (4) The
availability of alternative means to address the problem that gave rise to the
motion or application for a continuance; (5) The prejudice that parties or
witnesses will suffer as a result of the continuance; (6) If the case is
entitled to a preferential trial setting, the reasons for that status and
whether the need for a continuance outweighs the need to avoid delay; (7) The
court's calendar and the impact of granting a continuance on other pending
trials; (8) Whether trial counsel is engaged in another trial; (9) Whether all
parties have stipulated to a continuance; (10) Whether the interests of justice
are best served by a continuance, by the trial of the matter, or by imposing
conditions on the continuance; and (11) Any other fact or circumstance relevant
to the fair determination of the motion or application.” (Cal. Rules of Court
3.1332(d).)¿¿ ¿ 
 
Analysis
            In their moving papers, the Moving
Parties request a five-month continuance, and cite several reasons why there is
good cause for a second continuance here. The parties (1) need additional time
to complete discovery, including the deposition of two of Moore’s doctors; (2)
ongoing discovery disputes have delayed the production of medical and billing
records, and (3) counsel for Defendant Alarcon is unavailable for the currently
set trial date. Alarcon’s counsel informs the Court that they will be
unavailable due to a combination of personal and professional obligations,
including a wedding and multiple upcoming trials.
 
            In their opposition papers, Moore
and Cruz contend that trial has already been continued once, discovery delays
are at least in part because of Moving Parties dilatory conduct, and that both
Moore and Cruz have been waiting for years for trial while dealing with their
significant injuries. Upon reply, Moving Parties, reiterate their moving
arguments, adding that the deposition of one of Moore’s treating doctors has
been rescheduled numerous times because of scheduling conflicts, and that
depositions of two other doctors are still pending. Moreover, Moving Parties
contend that there is still outstanding written discovery. 
 
            Moore’s case was initiated on
December 30, 2021, and Cruz’s case on January 11, 2022. Cruz’s prior June 29,
2023 trial date was vacated after the May 22, 2023 consolidation of Case No.
21STCV47521, and Case No. 22STCV01166. Then the case was continued from the
initial May trial date to the now October 18, 2024 trial date. Moving Parties
request another five-month continuance. 
 
            California
Rules of Court, rule 3.1332, subdivision (c) gives the Court numerous grounds
to continue a trial, although continuances are disfavored. A party's excused
inability to obtain essential testimony, documents, or other material evidence
despite diligent efforts qualifies as good cause, as does the unavailability of
counsel. The Moving Parties represent that both those grounds are present here.
Upon opposition, Moore and Cruz both disagree that further time is necessary to
complete discovery, arguing that Moving Parties have had enough time. However,
Moore does not contest that one of the depositions for her doctors was
rescheduled unilaterally and acknowledges that most but not all depositions of
treating physicians have been taken. Cruz argues that they have cooperated
diligently with discovery and there is no reason Moving Parties should be
unprepared, however, Cruz acknowledges that Uber is now on its third defense
firm. This may mean that counsel has not had a reasonable opportunity to
conduct discovery and prepare for trial. 
 
            The Court
will continue trial by the requested five months because although this causes
delay to Moore and Cruz, it does not cause prejudice, and Moving Parties have
made the requisite showing of good cause. However, the Court will be hesitant
to provide another continuance considering this will be the second continuance
granted, the age of the case, and the delay to Moore and Cruz.    
 
CONCLUSION
             The Motion to Continue Trial filed by filed by
Alarcon and joined by Uber, Rasier, and Rasier CA is GRANTED. The
trial date and all related discovery dates are continued by five months to ___
 
Moving party to give notice.  
 
 