  Case Number:  21STCV08795    Hearing Date:   August 7, 2024    Dept:  B ANNETTE MANOUKIAN V. ADAM MICHAEL
KNOX
 
MOTION FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT
 
Date of Hearing:          August 7, 2024                                    Trial
Date:       3/10/25
Department:               B                                              Case
No.:         21STCV08795
 
Moving Party:             Plaintiff
and Cross-Defendant Annette Manoukian 
Responding
Party:       Defendant
and Cross-Complainant Adam Michael Knox dba Adam’s Bootcamp Boxing  
 
BACKGROUND
 
This action arises from Plaintiff
Annette Manoukian sustaining injuries during an outdoor kickboxing class.
Plaintiff Annette Manoukian alleges that her foot became caught on the edge of
a rubber tire, which caused her to fall face first into unprotected parking lot
asphalt. (Complaint, ¶ 28.) On March 5, 2021, Plaintiff Annette Manoukian filed
a Complaint against Defendants Adam Michael Knox dba Adam’s Bootcamp Boxing and
Does 1 through 25, inclusive, alleging causes of action for: (1) Negligence;
(2) Premises Liability; and (3) Negligent Hiring, Supervision, and/or
Retention. 
 
On April 6, 2021, Defendant Adam
Michael Knox dba Adam’s Bootcamp Boxing filed an Answer to the Complaint.
 
Also, on April 6, 2021, Defendant Adam
Michael Knox dba Adam’s Bootcamp Boxing (“Cross-Complainant”) filed a
Cross-Complaint against Plaintiff and Cross-Defendant Annette Manoukian
(“Cross-Defendant”) alleging a single cause of action for Express Contractual
Indemnity. The Cross-Complaint alleges that Cross-Defendant signed a written waiver
of release of liability. (Cross-Complaint, ¶ 8.) 
 
On May 11, 2021, Cross-Defendant filed
an Answer to the Cross-Complaint. 
 
On May 22, 2023, Cross-Defendant filed
and served the instant Motion for Summary Judgment (the “Motion”). The motion
for summary judgment is made on the grounds that the contract at the basis of
the Cross-Complaint is void as a matter of public policy pursuant to the Health
Studio Act because it is undisputed that Cross-Defendant never received a copy
of the contract. 
 
On June 5, 2024, this action was
reassigned from the Honorable Michelle C. Kim to the Honorable Karen Moskowitz
sitting in Department B at Van Nuys Courthouse East effective June 24, 2024. 
 
On June 11, 2024, Cross-Complainant
filed and served an opposition to the Motion.
 
On June 14, 2024, Cross-Defendant filed
and served a Notice of Errata Regarding the Compendium of Evidence in support
of the Motion. The Notice of Errata indicates that the deposition transcript of
Cross-Complainant was not attached to the Compendium of Evidence in support of
the Motion due to clerical oversight. The Notice of Errata attaches the
deposition transcript of Cross-Complainant thereto. 
 
On June 18, 2024, Cross-Defendant filed
a reply brief. 
 
On June 25, 2024, after hearing, the
Court indicated that it needed more time to review the motion and supporting
documents. (06/25/24 Minute Order.) The Court therefore continued the hearing
on the Motion to July 23, 2024. (06/25/24 Minute Order.).  The hearing was then continued again due to
the Court’s inability to access it’s Case Management System (7/23/24Minute
Order). 
 
[Tentative] Ruling
 
The Court DENIES
Cross-Defendant’s Motion for Summary Judgment (the “Motion”). 
 
DISCUSSION
The function of a motion
for summary judgment or adjudication is to allow a determination as to whether
an opposing party cannot show evidentiary support for a pleading or claim and
to enable an order of summary dismissal without the need for trial. (Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001)
25 Cal.4th 826, 843.) Code Civ. Proc. § 437c(c) “requires the trial judge to
grant summary judgment if all the evidence submitted, and all inferences
reasonably deducible from the evidence and uncontradicted by other inferences
or evidence, show that there is no triable issue as to any material fact and
that the moving party is entitled to judgment as a matter of law.”  (Adler
v. Manor Healthcare Corp. (1992) 7 Cal.App.4th 1110, 1119.)  “The function of the pleadings in a motion
for summary judgment is to delimit the scope of the issues; the function of the
affidavits or declarations is to disclose whether there is any triable issue of
fact within the issues delimited by the pleadings.”  (Juge
v. County of Sacramento (1993) 12 Cal.App.4th 59, 67.)
“As to each claim as
framed by the complaint, the defendant moving for summary judgment must satisfy
the initial burden of proof by presenting facts to negate an essential element,
or to establish a defense.” (Scalf v. D.
B. Log Homes, Inc. (2005) 128 Cal.App.4th 1510, 1520.) Courts “liberally
construe the evidence in support of the party opposing summary judgment and
resolve doubts concerning the evidence in favor of that party.”  (Dore
v. Arnold Worldwide, Inc. (2006) 39 Cal.4th 384, 389.) Once the
defendant has met its burden, the burden shifts to the plaintiff to show that a
triable issue of one or more material facts exists as to that cause of action
or a defense thereto. (Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co., supra,
25 Cal.4th 826, 849.)  
“The summary judgment
statute [is] not intended nor can it be used as a substitute for existing
methods in the trial of issues of fact.” (Travelers Indemn. Co. v. McIntosh (1952)
112 Cal.App.2d 177, 182.) The summary judgment “procedure is drastic and should
be used with caution.” (House v. Lala (1960) 180 Cal.App.2d 412, 415.)
“Any doubt in granting summary judgment should be exercised against the moving
party.” (Ibid.) 
Evidentiary Objections
The Court SUSTAINS
Cross-Complainant’s evidentiary objections numbers 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, and 6 to the
declaration of Shant T. Hagopian in support of the Motion on the grounds of
hearsay.
The Court SUSTAINS
Cross-Complainant’s evidentiary objections numbers 1, 2, 3, and 4 to the
declaration of Cross-Defendant Annette Manoukian in support of the Motion on
the grounds of hearsay. 
The Court OVERRULES
Cross-Complainant’s evidentiary objection number 1 to the deposition testimony
of Cross-Complainant offered by Cross-Defendant as evidence in support of the
Motion. Although such deposition testimony was referenced and relied upon in
the moving papers, Cross-Defendant inadvertently omitted such deposition
testimony from its compendium of evidence. Cross-Defendant filed a Notice of
Errata which included the deposition testimony and Cross-Complainant did not
file any evidentiary objections to the Notice of Errata. 
The Court OVERRULES
Cross-Defendant’s evidentiary objections numbers 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, and 8 to
the declaration of Cross-Complainant Adam Knox submitted in support of the
opposition to the Motion. Cross-Defendant’s evidentiary objections are
procedurally improper. (Cal. Rules of Court, Rule 3.1354.) 
Each written objection
to evidence must “[s]tate the exhibit, title, page, and line number of the
material objected to.” (Cal. Rules of Court, Rule 3.1354(b)(2).) Here, however,
Cross-Defendant failed to set forth the page and line number of the purported
objectionable material and has only set forth the objectionable excerpts
without citing to the page and line number. (See 06/18/24 Evidentiary
Objections of Cross-Defendant.) Had Cross-Defendant presented procedurally
proper evidentiary objections, the Court would have sustained all of the
objections on the grounds that the objectionable material constituted an
improper legal conclusion. (Hayman v. Block (1986) 176 Cal.App.3d 629,
639.) 
Judicial Notice
The Court GRANTS Cross-Defendant’s
request for judicial notice and the Court takes judicial notice of the
Cross-Complaint. (Evid. Code § 452(d).) 
Cross-Complainant’s
Defective Separate Statement 
A separate statement in opposition to a motion for
summary judgment “must unequivocally state whether that fact is disputed or
undisputed.” (Cal. Rules of Court, Rule 3.1350, subd. (f)(2).) “An opposing
party who contends that a fact is disputed must state, on the right side of the
page directly of the fact in dispute, the nature of the dispute and describe
the evidence that supports the position that the fact is controverted. Citation
to the evidence in support of the position that a fact is controverted must
include reference to the exhibit, title, page, and line numbers.” (Ibid.)
“The opposition papers shall include a separate statement that responds to each
of the material facts contended by the moving party to be undisputed,
indicating if the opposing party agrees or disagrees that those facts are
undisputed.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 437c(b)(3).) “The statement shall also set
forth plainly and concisely any another material facts the opposing party
contends are disputed. Each material fact contended by the opposing party to be
disputed shall be followed by a reference to the supporting evidence. Failure
to comply with this requirement of a separate statement may constitute a
sufficient ground, in the court’s discretion, for granting the motion.” (Code
Civ. Proc. § 437c(b)(3).) 
 Here, Cross-Defendant presented five purported
undisputed material facts in support of the Motion. The Court finds that
Cross-Complainant’s separate statement is defective. For instance, in response
to UMF Nos. 1, 2, 4, and 5, Cross-Complainant states that such facts are
“disputed to the extent that as detailed in Cross-Complainant’s Evidentiary
Objections . . . .” (Cross-Complainant’s Separate Statement at pp. 1-3.) Cross-Complainant
then references its evidentiary objections in the separate statement.
Cross-Complainant, however, was required to cite to evidence supporting the
position that the fact is controverted. 
The Court will not grant the Motion merely on the defects
in the separate statement of Cross-Complainant. The Court will still consider
the evidence offered by Cross-Complainant since it is before the Court, even
though Cross-Complainant did not properly dispute certain material facts. Cross-Complainant
is reminded to comply with the requirements of the Code of Civil Procedure and
of the California Rules of Court. 
The Deposition Testimony Offered as Evidence 
Cross-Defendant offers the deposition testimony of
Cross-Complainant as an exhibit. Such deposition testimony, however, is not
“marked in a manner that calls attention to the testimony.” (Cal. Rules of
Court, Rule 3.1116(c).) The Court will still consider the deposition testimony
of Cross-Complainant, which is offered as evidence by Cross-Defendant.
However, Cross-Defendant is reminded to present
procedurally proper exhibits in accordance with the California Rules of Court. 
Issue No.1: The Health
Studio Act 
Cross-Defendant argues
that Cross-Complainant’s contract referenced in the Cross-Complaint is subject
to the Health Studio Act and Cross-Complainant’s failure to provide her with a
copy of the contract renders such contract void. Cross-Complainant contends
that the waiver form is not a contract for health studio services and therefore
the Motion should be denied. 
“The Legislature
declares that the purpose of the [Health Studio Act] is to safeguard the public
against fraud, deceit, imposition and financial hardship, and to foster and
encourage competition, fair dealing, and prosperity in the field of health
studio services by prohibiting or restricting false or misleading advertising,
onerous contract terms, harmful financial practices, and other unfair,
dishonest, deceptive, destructive, unscrupulous, fraudulent, and discriminatory
practices by which the public has been injured in connection with contracts for
health studio services.” (Civ. Code § 1812.80.) 
A contract for health
studio service is “a contract for instruction, training or assistance in
physical culture, body building, exercising, reducing, figure development, or
any other such physical skill, or for the use by an individual patron of the
facilities of a health studio, gymnasium or other facility used for any of the
above purposes, or membership in any group, club, association or organization
formed for any of the above purposes . . . .” (Civ. Code § 1812.81.) “Every
contract for health studio services shall be in writing and shall be subject to
the provisions of this title. A copy of the written contract shall be
physically given to or delivered by email to the customer at the time he or she
signs the contract.” (Civ. Code § 1812.82.) “Any contract for health studio
services which does not comply with the applicable provisions of this title
shall be void and enforceable as contrary to public policy.” (Civ. Code §
1812.91.) A contract is unlawful if it is “[c]ontrary to an express provision
of law; [or] [is] [c]ontrary to the policy of express law, through not
expressly prohibited.” (Civ. Code § 1667(1)-(2).) 
Cross-Defendant’s Evidence

Cross-Defendant declares
that on September 28, 2019, she presented to Cross-Complainant’s facility in
Burbank, California to participate in a group fitness class incorporating
boxing themed exercises. (Manoukian Decl., ¶ 2.) Cross-Defendant paid twenty
dollars for the class and, as a precondition to her participation, she was
asked to complete and sign a document called “Boxing Club Participation Waiver
Form” (the “Contract”). (Id., ¶ 3; Knox Depo. at p. 41:20-42:18.) Cross-Defendant
signed the Contract and handed it back to Mr. Knox, but she did not receive a
copy of the Contract, signed or otherwise. (Manoukian Decl., ¶ 4.) Cross-Defendant
never received a copy of the Contract signed, unsigned, or otherwise in
electronic form. (Id., ¶ 5.) Cross-Defendant injured herself during the
class when she tripped on a tire and fell to the ground. (Id., ¶ 9.) Cross-Defendant
was participating in group training. (Donabedian Decl., Exh. 1 at p. 36:23.) 
Cross-Defendant presents
evidence that the Cross-Complaint is based exclusively on the Contract. (UMF No.
5; RJN at Exh. 1.) 
The Contract is attached
as Exhibit 1 to the declaration of Sam A. Donabedian in support of the Motion.
(Donabedian Decl., Exh. 1.) The Contract is a waiver of liability form wherein
Cross-Defendant agreed to discharge Cross-Complainant from any liability. (Id.)
The Contract states that Cross-Defendant agrees to assume all risks in
consideration of the acceptance of her application to participate in the boxing
club at Cross-Complainant’s location. (Id.) Moreover, the Contract
states that it is intended to discharge Cross-Complainant “from any and all
liability arising out of or connected in any way with [her] participation
organized by [Cross-Complainant] even though that liability may arise out of
negligence or carelessness . . . .” (Id.) 
The Court finds that
Cross-Defendant has met her burden in showing that the Contract is one for
health studio services. The burden now shifts to Cross-Complainant to show a
triable issue of material fact. 
Cross-Complainant’s
Evidence
In opposition to the Motion,
Cross-Complainant declares that the Contract is not part of any membership agreement
or other contract for instruction, training, or assistance in physical culture,
body building, exercising, reducing, figure development, or any other such
physical skill, or for use by an individual patron of the facilities of a
health studio, gymnasium, or other facility used for such purposes, or for
membership in any group, club, association, or organization formed for any of
the above purposes; rather, the Contract is presented as a separate document
for the purpose of release of liability. (Knox Decl., ¶ 3; Exh. A.) The
Contract does not provide Cross-Defendant with any vested rights to participate
in classes, to access the venue, or to hold membership in any club; rather, it
simply provides that should Cross-Defendant do what is necessary to participate
in classes or secure access to the venue, and that while doing so she will
waive ordinary negligence claims. (Id., ¶ 4; Exh. A.) Cross-Complainant
states that he has performed all conditions and obligations under the Contract
and is entitled to be indemnified by Cross-Defendant. (Id., ¶¶ 13-14.) The
Contract does not reflect an agreement concerning instruction, training, or gym
membership. (Id., ¶ 6.) Cross-Defendant participated in a nonprofit
birthday Bootcamp Boxing class that Cross-Complainant hosted for one of his
clients whereat she alleges she was injured. (Id., ¶ 8.) 
Analysis
The Court finds that Cross-Complainant
has presented a triable issue of material fact as to whether the Contract is
one for health studio services. Cross-Complainant has declared that the
Contract was not one for participation in classes, access to
Cross-Complainant’s venue, or for membership. Cross-Complainant has presented
evidence that the Contract was for the sole purpose of releasing
Cross-Complainant from liability. 
The Court further finds
that Cross-Defendant’s citation to Staples v. Arthur Marry, Inc. (1967)
253 Cal.App.2d 507 is inapposite as such a case concerned a contract for
payment for dancing classes. Here, there is no allegation in the
Cross-Complaint or raised in the moving papers as to payment for gym classes.
Thus, the instant action is factually distinguishable from Staples, supra,
253 Cal. App. 2d 507. 
Moreover,
the Court finds that Cross-Defendant’s citation to Crannage v. Gold’s Gym (C.D.
Cal. 2019) 2019 WL 7856763 is inapposite as the Crannage court found
that triable issues of fact existed as to a membership agreement and waiver for
use of gym facilities. 
 
In
sum, a triable issue of fact exists as to whether the Contract is one for
health studio services pursuant to Civ. Code § 1812.81. Liberally construing
the evidence in opposition to the Motion, the Court finds that a triable issue
of material fact exists, and summary judgment is not appropriate. 
 
Accordingly,
the Motion is DENIED.  
 
CONCLUSION
 
Based on the foregoing, the Motion
is DENIED. 
 
Moving party is ordered to give
notice. 