 Case Number:  21STCV39719    Hearing Date:   August 7, 2024    Dept:  B raul gomez v.
garen aklyan, et al 
 
MOTION: (1) Defendants’ Motion to Compel
Further Responses to Form Interrogatories, Set 1 and (2) Motion to Compel
Further Responses to Special Interrogatories, Set 1 
 
Date of Hearing:         August 7, 2024                        Trial
Date:       March 20, 2025           
Department:                B                                             Case
No.:        21STCV39719            
 
Moving Party:             Defendants Garen Aklyan and Vahe
Aklyan  
Responding
Party:      N/A
- Unopposed
 

 

BACKGROUND
            
Factual and Procedural
Background
            On
October 28, 2021, Raul Gomez (Plaintiff) filed a Complaint against Garen Aklyan
and Vahe Aklyan (Defendants) for two causes of action: (1) negligence and (2)
premises liability. The Complaint stems from a November 3, 2019 accident
suffered while Plaintiff was performing paid duties at the home of Defendants.
The home was undergoing remodeling and while on site, Plaintiff was assisting
in the cleanup of leaves, branches, and logs when his hand was stuck inside
rented machinery that was activated and injured Plaintiff. (Complaint, GN-1.)
 
            The
motions now before the Court are: 
1.     
Defendants’ Motion to Compel Further Responses to Form
Interrogatories, Set 1 and a Request for Monetary Sanctions in the Amount of
$780.00; and 
2.     
Defendants’ Motion to Compel Further Responses to
Special Interrogatories, Set 1 and a Request for Monetary Sanctions in the
Amount of $780.00
(hereinafter referred to as the
“Motions”)
            
            No
opposition has been filed, therefore both Motions are unopposed. 
                                                                                                      
Tentative Ruling
            Defendants’ Motion to Compel
Further Responses to Form Interrogatories, Set 1 and the Motion to Compel
Further Responses to Special Interrogatories, Set 1 are GRANTED.
Additionally, the request for monetary sanctions is GRANTED and
monetary sanctions are to be imposed on Plaintiff and awarded to Defendants in
the amount of $1,020.00. Both
responses and all unpaid monetary sanctions, including those imposed in
this order, are due to Defendants
within 15 days of this order.
 
DISCUSSION
 
Legal Standard
            The
propounding party may bring motions to compel further responses to
interrogatories or requests for production if it believes (1) the responses
received are evasive, or (2) incomplete, or (3) if the objections raised are
meritless or too general. (Code Civ. Proc. §§ 2030.300(a), 2031.310(a).) A
respondent has the burden to justify objections in response to a motion filed
to compel further responses. (Fairmont Ins. Co. v. Superior Court (2000)
22 Cal.4th 245, 255.)   
 
            The court
shall impose a monetary sanction…against any party, person, or attorney who
unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel a further response to
interrogatories, unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction acted
with substantial justification or that other circumstances make the imposition
of the sanction unjust. (Code Civ. Proc. §§ 2030.300(d).)
            
Analysis
            
            Timeline
            Both Motions contain similar facts
and can be summarized as follows: after the filing of Plaintiff’s Complaint,
Defendants served both Form Interrogatories and Special Interrogatories by
email on May 18, 2023, with responses to both due on June 21, 2023.
(Declaration of David J. Mendoza, hereinafter Mendoza Decl., ¶3.) However,
Plaintiff failed to respond by the deadline, and Defendants then filed motions
to compel initial responses for both the Form and Special Interrogatories. (Mendoza
Decl., ¶5.) After both motions to compel initial responses were granted,
Plaintiff was to respond without objections and pay the accompanying sanctions
within 20 days, Plaintiff did not. (Mendoza Decl., ¶5-6.) This was a direct
refusal to obey a Court order, as Defendants did not receive responses pursuant
to the Court order until February 26, 2024, and the Court is informed that no
sanctions have been paid. (Mendoza Decl., ¶¶6 and 9.) Defendants sent
Plaintiff’s counsel a letter on March 4, 2024 explaining the February 26, 2024 responses
were deficient. (Mendoza Decl., ¶7.) Defendants followed up on April 12, 2024,
advising they would file motions to compel further because Plaintiff’s counsel
did not respond to meet and confer efforts. (Mendoza Decl., ¶8.)        
 
            Interrogatories at Issue
 
a)      Form Interrogatories
            Defendants put forth the
interrogatories at issue, which are Form Interrogatory Nos.: 2.4, 2.6, 6.2,
6.4, 6.7, 11.2, 12.1, and 12.4. All ask for routine discovery information,
however Defendants contend the answers to the interrogatories were deficient,
for example:
 
·        
Form
interrogatory No. 2.4: Requests information on the license for operation of a
motor vehicle and asks for the issuing entity, the license number and type,
date of issuance, and any restrictions. Plaintiff responded “Yes, Forklift
Operator”. However, Plaintiff failed to respond to the subparts of the
question, including the license number, type, date of issuance, and
restrictions. 
 
·        
Form
Interrogatory No. 6.4: Requests information regarding medical consultations and
treatment, including the name, address, & telephone number of the health
care provider, the type of treatment, the date of treatment, and any charges to
date. Plaintiff indicated four separate instances of treatment, but only
responded with the name of the provider and phone number to three of them.
Additionally, Plaintiff failed to provide the address for three providers,
failed to provide the cost of treatment for three providers, and failed to provide
the phone number for one provider.
 
·        
Form
Interrogatory No. 12.1: Requests the name, address, and telephone number, of
each individual who witnessed or made a statement at the scene of the incident.
Plaintiff simply responded, “Responding Party will comply”. If an interrogatory
cannot be answered completely, it shall be answered to the extent possible. (Code
Civ. Proc. §2030.220(b). Stating the party will comply is not a response.
 
            None of the above answers are code
compliant within the meaning of the aforementioned discovery statutes.
Therefore, as to Defendants Motion to Compel Further Responses to Form
Interrogatories, Set 1, the Motion is granted. 
 
b)      Special Interrogatories
 
            Defendants put forth the interrogatories
at issue, which are Special Interrogatory Nos.: 1, 2, 8, 9, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15,
16, 17, 18, 19, 20, 21, & 31. Similar to the Form Interrogatories, all the Special Interrogatories ask for
routine discovery information, however, Defendants make the same contention,
that the responses are deficient. The Court agrees. The responses are
incomplete and evasive. By way of example:
 
·        
Special
Interrogatory 1: Requests Plaintiff to identify health care providers who
treated Plaintiff in the past five years. Plaintiff responded, “Responding
Party does not recall, and is not able to ascertain said information.”
Defendants correctly argue that Plaintiff has a duty pursuant to Code Civ.
Proc. §2030.220(c) to make a reasonable and good faith effort to obtain the
information by inquiry to the relevant parties.  
 
·        
Special
Interrogatory 9: Requests that Plaintiff state the total amount of the medical
bills that arose out of the subject incident. Plaintiff responded “Discovery
and investigation is currently ongoing. Responding Party will comply.” Stating
the responding party will comply is not a code compliant response. If an
interrogatory cannot be answered completely, it shall be answered to the extent
possible. (Code Civ. Proc. §2030.220(b).) It is highly likely that Plaintiff is
aware to some degree of the medical bills incurred due to the subject incident.

 
·        
Special
Interrogatory 20: Requests that Plaintiff identify the insurer, plan
identification number, and group plan identification number if Plaintiff had
medical insurance in the past five years. Plaintiff again responds “Discovery
and investigation is currently ongoing. Responding Party will comply.” As with
Special Interrogatory No. 9, this is not a code compliant response. The Court
is unpersuaded that Plaintiff needs to conduct much investigation to determine
whether Plaintiff had medical insurance over the past five years.         
 
            None of the above answers are code
compliant within the meaning of the aforementioned discovery statutes.
Therefore, as to Defendants Motion to Compel Further Responses to
Special Interrogatories, Set 1, the Motion is granted. 
 
            Sanctions
            Each Motion requests $780.00 in
monetary sanctions. Defense counsel provides the following calculations:
·        
Counsel’s
hourly rate is $180.00
·        
The
preparation for each Motion was 2 hours
·        
Counsel
anticipated that evaluating opposition papers and submitting a reply would be 1
hour for each Motion
·        
Counsel
anticipates the hearing to be 1 hour
·        
The
filing fee for each Motion was $60.00
 
            As no opposition nor reply was
submitted for either Motion, the Court will impose sanctions jointly and
severally against Plaintiff and Plaintiff’s counsel, and award them to
Defendant in the total amount of $1,020.00, inclusive of both Motions.
 
 
CONCLUSION
            Defendants’ Motion to Compel
Further Responses to Form Interrogatories, Set 1 and the Motion to Compel
Further Responses to Special Interrogatories, Set 1 are GRANTED. Additionally,
the request for monetary sanctions is GRANTED and monetary
sanctions are to be imposed on Plaintiff and awarded to Defendants in the
amount of $1,020.00. Both responses
and all unpaid monetary sanctions, including those imposed in this
order, are due to Defendants within 15
days of this order. 
 
Court to set an OSC
re Compliance with Court Orders 8/28/24 at 8:30. 
 
Moving party to give
notice. 
 