 Case Number:  23PSCV03425    Hearing Date:   October 2, 2024    Dept:  G Plaintiff Juan Zhao’s Demurrer to Defendant Min Zhou’s
Answer to First Amended Complaint
 
Respondent: Defendant Min Zhou
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 
Plaintiff Juan Zhao’s Demurrer to Defendant Min Zhou’s
Answer to First Amended Complaint is
CONTINUED to a date to be determined at the hearing in Department G (Pomona).
 
Plaintiff Juan Zhao’s Counsel is also ordered to meet
and confer with Defendant Min Zhou’s Counsel regarding the Demurrer and to file
a supplemental declaration describing such meet and confer efforts, including
the means by which the meet-and-confer took place, at least nine (9) court days
before the next scheduled hearing on the Demurrer.
 
BACKGROUND
 
This is a breach of contract and fraud action arising from
a loan agreement. In May 2023, Plaintiff Juan Zhao entered into an agreement
with Defendant Min Zhou in which Zhao agreed to loan a total of $1,500,000 to
Min Zhou in exchange for repayment within one week. After two to three weeks
later, Min Zhou told Zhao that Min Zhou would be unable to repay the loan and
claimed the money had been lost in an online scam. On June 23, Min Zhou signed
a written promissory note that acknowledged the loan, agreed to repay it within
thirty days, and listed property in Diamond Bar as collateral for the loan.
Subsequently, Zhao alleges Min Zhou failed to make any payments on the loan.
 
On July 25, 2023, Zhao filed a complaint in Orange County
Superior Court against Defendants Min Zhou, Bing Zhou, and Does 1-50, alleging
the following causes of action: (1) fraud, (2) promissory estoppel, (3)
fraudulent transfer, (4) breach of oral contract, (5) breach of written
contract, and (6) common counts.
 
On October 4, 2023, the parties stipulated to the transfer
of this action to the present court.
 
On February 7, 2024, the court sustained Min Zhou’s
demurrer to the Complaint in part with leave to amend.
 
On February 27, 2024, Zhao filed a First Amended Complaint
(FAC) against the same defendants alleging the same causes of action.¿On May
29, 2024, the court sustained Min Zhou’s demurrer to the FAC in part without
leave to amend as to the fifth cause of action.
 
On June 17, 2024, Min Zhou filed an answer to the FAC.
 
On July 29, 2024, Zhao filed the present demurrer. A
hearing on Zhao’s demurrer is set for October 2, 2024, along with a
post-mediation status conference/trial setting conference.
 
ANALYSIS
 
Zhao demurs to Min Zhou’s Answer to the FAC. For the following reasons, the court finds parties did not adequately
meet and confer.
 
Legal Standard
 
Pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 430.41,
subdivision (a), prior to filing a demurrer, “the demurring party shall meet
and confer in person or by telephone with the party who filed the pleading that
is subject to demurrer for the purpose of determining whether an agreement can
be reached that would resolve the objections to be raised in the demurrer.”
This section further provides that “the demurring party shall identify all of
the specific causes of action that it believes are subject to demurrer and
identify with legal support the basis of the deficiencies.” (Code Civ. Proc., §
430.41, subd. (a)(1).)
 
While Code of Civil Procedure section 430.41, subdivision
(a)(4) makes clear failing to meet and confer is not grounds to overrule a
demurrer, courts “are not required to ignore defects in the meet and confer
process” and if the court determines “no meet and confer has taken place, or
concludes further conferences between counsel would likely be productive, it
retains discretion to order counsel to meaningfully discuss the pleadings with
an eye toward reducing the number of issues or eliminating the need for a
demurrer, and to continue the hearing date to facilitate that effort.” (Dumas
v. Los Angeles County Bd. of Supervisors (2020) 45 Cal.App.5th 348, 355
& fn. 3.)
 
Discussion
 
In
this case, Zhao’s counsel filed a declaration stating counsel attempted to
meet and confer by engaging in a lengthy conversation with Zhao’s counsel on
July 19, 2024. (Oh Decl., ¶ 3.) But pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 430.41,
subdivision (a)(3)(A), the demurring party must file a declaration stating
“[t]he means by which the demurring party met and conferred with the party who
filed the pleading subject to demurrer.” Because the declaration does not
specify if counsel’s conversation took place over email, telephone, or
videoconference, the declaration does not adequately establish Zhao’s
compliance with the meet and confer requirements. Thus,
the court finds a continuance of the hearing on Zhao’s demurrer is appropriate
in order for counsel to file a supplemental, code-compliant declaration.
 
CONCLUSION
 
Based on the foregoing, Zhao’s demurrer is CONTINUED to
a date to be determined at the hearing in Department G (Pomona).
 
Zhao’s counsel
is also ordered to meet and confer with the Min Zhou’s counsel regarding the demurrer
and to file a supplemental declaration describing such meet and confer efforts,
including the means by which the meet-and-confer took place, at least nine (9)
court days before the next scheduled hearing on the demurrer.