 Case Number:  23PSCV01294    Hearing Date:   October 2, 2024    Dept:  G Plaintiff Emad Qubrosi’s Motion to Set Aside Dismissal
Respondent: Defendants Rogelio Amador and JR Express, LLC
TENTATIVE RULING
Plaintiff Emad Qubrosi’s Motion to Set Aside Dismissal
is GRANTED.
Furthermore, the Court orders Plaintiff Emad Qubrosi’s
Counsel to pay $517.50 in attorney fees to Defendants Rogelio Amador and JR
Express, LLC, payable within thirty (30) days of the issuance of this order.
BACKGROUND
This
is a personal injury action arising from an automobile collision. In April
2021, Plaintiff Emad Qubrosi alleges Defendants Rogelio Amador and Hany S.
Abdelshahid rearended Qubrosi in Los Angeles. At the time of the collision, Qubrosi
alleges Amador was employed by Defendant JR Express, LLC (JR Express,
erroneously sued as JX Express) while Abdelshahid was employed by Defendant
Accurate Delivery Systems, Inc. (ADS).
On April
28, 2023, Qubrosi filed a complaint against Amador, JR Express, Abdelshahid, ADS,
and Does 1-10, alleging a cause of action for general negligence.
On October
5, 2023, Qubrosi’s counsel failed to appear for a case management conference
and OSC Re: Failure to File Proof of Service. As a result, the court set an OSC
Re: Sanctions and Dismissal for October 18, 2023. After Qubrosi’s counsel
failed to appear on October 18, 2023, the court dismissed Qubrosi’s Complaint
without prejudice pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 575.2. On May 14,
2024, the court granted Qubrosi’s motion to set aside the dismissal.
On
September 3, 2024, Qubrosi’s counsel failed to appear for a case management
conference and an OSC Re: Dismissal. As a result, the court dismissed Qubrosi’s
Complaint without prejudice pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 575.2.
On September
9, 2024, Qubrosi filed the present motion. A hearing on the motion is set for
October 2, 2024.
ANALYSIS
Qubrosi
seeks to vacate the court’s dismissal of Qubrosi’s action on the grounds of counsel’s
neglect, mistake, or inadvertence. For the following reasons, the court GRANTS
Qubrosi’s motion.
Legal
Standard
Whenever
an application for relief from dismissal is made no more than six months after
entry of the judgment of dismissal, is in proper form, and is accompanied by
the moving party’s sworn affidavit attesting to his or her mistake,
inadvertence, surprise, or excusable neglect, the court may vacate any
dismissal entered against the moving party unless the court finds that the dismissal
was not in fact caused by the moving party’s mistake, inadvertence, surprise,
or excusable neglect. (Code Civ. Proc., §473, subd. (b).) The court shall grant
relief if the moving party’s counsel provides a “sworn affidavit attesting to his or her mistake,
inadvertence, surprise, or neglect.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 473, subd. (b).) “The
court shall, whenever relief is granted based on an attorney's affidavit of
fault, direct the attorney to pay reasonable compensatory legal fees and costs
to opposing counsel or parties.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 473, subd. (b).) “The six-month time limit for granting statutory relief is
jurisdictional and the court may not consider a motion for relief made after
that period has elapsed.” (Manson, Iver & York v. Black (2009) 176
Cal.App.4th 36, 42.)
Discussion
In this case,
Qubrosi’s counsel, Nicholas Dagher, states counsel failed to appear for the
case management conference and OSC Re: Dismissal on September 3, 2024, due to
personal and technical issues. While Dagher initially intended on attending the
hearing in person, Dagher was delayed in dropping Dagher’s daughter off at
kindergarten. (Dagher Decl., ¶ 5.) Dagher then attempted to attend the hearing remotely
on LA Court Connect before realizing that Dagher had failed to make a
reservation. (Dagher Decl., ¶ 6-8.) The court does not fault counsel for
prioritizing the care of counsel’s daughter over attending the hearing in
person. However, even without access to LA Court Connect, Dagher failed to
explain why Dagher did not attempt to call the court directly prior to the
hearing. Given the significance of the OSC set by the court on the date of the
subject hearing, and the court’s the obligation to ensure cases are decided on
the merits, court finds relief is warranted based on Dagher’s sworn affidavit attesting to
his mistake, inadvertence, and excusable neglect.
Therefore,
the court GRANTS Qubrosi’s motion.
Furthermore,
based on the appearance of Amador and JR Express in the present action prior to
its dismissal and pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 473, subdivision
(b), the court orders Qubrosi’s counsel to pay $742.50 in attorney fees to
Amador and JR Express ($742.50 for 3.3 total hours, calculated at 0.8 hours for
attending the September 3 case management conference, 2.0 hours drafting an
opposition to the present motion, and 0.5 hours attending the hearing on the
present motion, at an hourly rate of $225.00).
CONCLUSION
Based
on the foregoing, Qubrosi’s motion to vacate the dismissal of Qubrosi’s action
is GRANTED.
Furthermore,
the court orders Qubrosi’s counsel to pay $742.50 in attorney fees to Amador
and JR Express, payable within thirty (30) days of the issuance of this order.