  Case Number:  22PSCV01193    Hearing Date:   October 2, 2024    Dept:  G Defendant County of Los Angeles’s Motion for Summary  Judgment, or in the Alternative, for Summary Adjudication of Issues Respondent: Plaintiff Delores  Simpson TENTATIVE RULING Defendant County of Los Angeles’s Motion for Summary  Judgment, or in the Alternative, for Summary Adjudication of Issues is GRANTED  as to the first, fourth, fifth, and ninth causes of action. BACKGROUND This  is an action for employment discrimination and harassment. In 1985, the Los  Angeles County Department of Children and Family Services (DCFS) hired  Plaintiff Delores Simpson and promoted Simpson to children’s social worker in  1990. From 2020 to 2022, Simpson alleges DCFS supervisors harassed and  discriminated against Simpson based on age, disability, and race. When Simpson  reported their conduct, Simpson alleges they retaliated with further  harassment, false allegations of misconduct, disciplinary actions and workload  adjustments. On  October 10, 2022, Simpson filed a complaint against DCFS, the County of Los  Angeles (the County), and Does 1-50, alleging the following causes of action:  (1) harassment based on race, (2) harassment based on age, (3) harassment based  on physical disability, (4) racial discrimination, (5) age discrimination, (6)  physical disability discrimination, (7) failure to engage in the interactive  process, (8) failure to make reasonable accommodation, (9) failure to prevent  discrimination and harassment, (10) retaliation in violation of the Fair  Employment and Housing Act (FEHA), (11) retaliation in violation of Labor Code  section 98.6, and (12) whistleblower retaliation in violation of Labor Code  section 1102.5. On  April 25, 2024, the parties stipulated to dismissal of Simpson’s eleventh cause  of action, request for punitive damages, and request for prejudgment interest. On May  3, 2024, the County and DCFS (collectively, the County) filed the present  motion for summary judgment or adjudication. On May 7, 2024, the County refiled  its motion with additions and corrections. On  July 18, 2024, the court granted the County’s motion for summary judgment in  part as to the second, third, sixth, seventh, eighth, tenth, and twelfth causes  of action. The court also continued consideration of the County’s motion as to  the first, fourth, fifth, and ninth causes of action. A  hearing on the present motion is set for October 2, 2024, along with a case  management conference/status conference re: ADR. ANALYSIS The  County moves for summary judgment or adjudication of Simpson’s first cause of  action (harassment based on race), fourth cause of action (racial  discrimination), fifth cause of action (age discrimination), and ninth cause of  action (failure to prevent discrimination and harassment). For the following  reasons, the court GRANTS the County’s motion. Legal Standard A  motion for summary judgment or adjudication provides “courts with a mechanism  to cut through the parties’ pleadings in order to determine whether, despite  their allegations, trial is in fact necessary to resolve their dispute.” (Aguilar  v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 843.) It must be granted  “if all the evidence submitted, and ‘all inferences reasonably deducible from  the evidence’ and uncontradicted by other inferences or evidence, show that  there is no triable issue as to any material fact and that the moving party is  entitled to judgment as a matter of law.”  (Adler v. Manor Healthcare Corp.  (1992) 7 Cal.App.4th 1110, 1119, quoting Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (c).)  To establish a triable issue of material fact, the opposing party must produce  substantial responsive evidence. (Sangster v. Paetkau (1998) 68  Cal.App.4th 151, 166.) Courts “liberally construe the evidence in support of  the party opposing summary judgment and resolve doubts concerning the evidence  in favor of that party.”  (Dore v. Arnold Worldwide, Inc. (2006) 39  Cal.4th 384, 389.)  “A motion for summary adjudication shall be granted only if  it completely disposes of a cause of action, an affirmative defense, a claim  for damages, or an issue of duty.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (f)(1).) Harassment Based on Race (First Cause of Action) The  County argues Simpson’s first cause of action for harassment based on race fails  because Simpson cannot establish severe or pervasive conduct. The court agrees. Legal Standard FEHA  prohibits harassment of an employee “because of race, religious creed, color,  national origin, ancestry, physical disability, mental disability, medical  condition, genetic information, marital status, sex, gender, gender identity,  gender expression, age, sexual orientation, or veteran or military status.”  (Gov. Code, § 12940, subd. (j)(1).) “To establish a prima facie case of  harassment, [Plaintiff] must show that (1) [Plaintiff] is a member of a  protected class; (2) [Plaintiff] was subjected to unwelcome harassment; (3) the  harassment was based on [Plaintiff’s] protected status; (4) the harassment  unreasonably interfered with [Plaintiff’s] work performance by creating an  intimidating, hostile, or offensive work environment; and (5) defendants are  liable for the harassment.” (Galvan v. Dameron Hospital Assn. (2019) 37  Cal.App.5th 549, 563.) A hostile  work environment is created “when the harassing behavior is pervasive or severe.”  (Hughes v. Pair (2009) 46 Cal.4th 1035, 1043.) In other words, the  harassment must be “severe enough or sufficiently pervasive to alter the  conditions of employment and create a work environment that qualifies as  hostile or abusive to employees because of their [protected status].” (Miller  v. Department of Corrections (2005) 36 Cal.4th 446, 462 (Miller).)  Thus, “an employee generally cannot recover for harassment that is occasional,  isolated, sporadic, or trivial; rather, the employee must show a concerted  pattern of harassment of a repeated, routine, or a generalized nature.” (Lyle  v. Warner Brothers Television Productions (2006) 38 Cal.4th 264, 283 (Lyle).) In  determining if harassment is severe enough to be actionable, “[T]he objective  severity of harassment should be judged from the perspective of a reasonable  person in the plaintiff's position, considering all the circumstances.  [Citation.]” (Miller, supra, 36 Cal.4th at p. 462, quoting Oncale  v. Sundowner Offshore Services, Inc. (1998) 523 U.S. 75, 81-82 (Oncale).)  This is an inquiry requiring “careful consideration of the social context in  which particular behavior occurs and is experienced by its target” in which  “[c]ommon sense, and an appropriate sensibility to social context, will enable  courts and juries to distinguish between simple teasing or roughhousing . . .  and conduct which a reasonable person in the plaintiff's position would find  severely hostile or abusive.” (Ibid, quoting Oncale, supra,  523 U.S. at p. 81-82.) Discussion The  Complaint alleges the following instances of race-based harassment. In March  2020, DCFS promoted a new assistant regional administrator, who the Complaint  alleges was rumored to not like Black people, as Simpson’s supervisor.  (Complaint, ¶ 12(a).) The supervisor then began to harass Simpson, a Black  woman, by ignoring Simpson, looking at Simpson in a “funny” manner, and criticizing  Simpson’s work performance. (Complaint, ¶ 10(a), 12(a).) Simpson’s other Black  colleagues reported the same negative treatment by the supervisor. (Complaint,  ¶ 12(a).) In addition to these instances, the Complaint also alleges other  instances of harassment where supervisors berated Simpson, sent incessant  emails, and made endless corrections to Simpson’s work. (Complaint, ¶ 12(c).) These  other allegations, however, do not allege any connection to Simpson’s race. In  moving for summary judgment, the County argues the following facts are  undisputed. In deposition, Simpson was only able to identify two instances of  race-related comments by DCFS employees. (Defendants’ Separate Statement (DSS),  ¶ 4.) In the first instance, Simpson was watching a training video with other  employees when a supervisor named Livi Blake asked if they were watching “The  Woman King.” (DSS, ¶ 4.) Blake did not explicitly state or imply that the  remark was about Simpson. (DSS, ¶ 5-6.) In the second instance, another  supervisor named Salvador Cazares stated “she’s really strong” in a telephone  conversation when Simpson approached Cazares’s cubicle. (DSS, ¶ 4, 7-9.) In  a supplemental separate statement, the County points to additional facts that  are undisputed. Kimberly Cardozo became Simpson’s supervisor in March 2020.  (DSS, ¶ 23.) In deposition, Simpson was unable to point to any examples of how  Cardozo treated non-Black employees differently from Black employees.  (Defendants’ Supplemental Separate Statement (DSSS), ¶ 100.) Simpson was also  unable to point to any other Black female employees who were ignored by  Cardozo. (DSSS, ¶ 103.) While the County claims Simpson never observed Cardozo  speaking to other Black women with disrespect, the court notes the cited  evidence does not support this purported fact. (DSSS, ¶ 99.) Instead, Simpson  merely stated Simpson did not observe Cardozo talking to an employee named  Denise Hobby in an unprofessional manner and the cited portion of the  deposition does not clarify if Denise Hobby was the only other Black employee. (MSJ,  Ex. 38, p. 367:9-368:6.) Nonetheless,  the undisputed fact that Simpson was unable to point to any examples of how  Cardozo treated non-Black employees differently from Black employees is fatal  to Simpson’s cause of action for race-based harassment. While the County fails  to address the allegations that Cardozo ignored, stared at, and criticized  Simpson (Complaint, ¶ 12(a)), the County has established there is no evidence to  suggest such alleged harassment was based on race. Thus, the burden now shifts  to Simpson to establish such harassment was based on race. In  Simpson’s separate statement, Simpson states Cardozo spoke to Simpson and other  Black women with disdain and disrespect. (Plaintiff’s Separate Statement - Additional  Material Facts (PSS-AMF), ¶ 15.) However, the fact alone that Cardozo spoke to  Black employees with disdain and disrespect is insufficient to establish  race-based harassment since there are no facts establishing how Cardozo spoke  to other non-Black employees or how Cardozo’s disdain and disrespect itself was  race-based. Simpson  also states Cardozo yelled and screamed at Simpson and ignored Simpson on  several occasions, but again Simpson fails to establish if this conduct was  race-based. (PSS-AMF, ¶ 18-19.) Last, Simpson states another employee told  Simpson that Cardozo was racist towards Black women and harassed them.  (PSS-AMF, ¶ 17.) Specifically, an employee named Denise Hobby told Simpson that  Cardozo was “racially prejudiced against black women,” (Opp., Ex. A, p. 64:5-9)  and “harassed black women” (Opp., Ex. A, p. 69:2-6). The court finds this  statement likely constitutes inadmissible hearsay, is another employee’s  subjective opinion of whether Cardozo is a racist, and fails to provide the  court with the requisite basis and support to create a genuine issue of fact. (See  King v. United Parcel Service, Inc. (2007) 152 Cal.App.4th 426, 433 [“[P]laintiff’s  subjective beliefs in an employment discrimination case do not create a genuine  issue of fact.”].) By  failing to point to any facts that create a triable issue in Simpson’s separate  statement and failing to file a response to the County’s supplemental separate  statement, Simpson has failed to demonstrate a triable issue of fact with  regard to whether Cardozo engaged in race-based harassment of Simpson. To the  extent Simpson’s cause of action rests solely on the comments of Blake and  Cazares, the court finds these comments are neither sufficiently pervasive nor  severe enough to constitute harassment as a matter of law.  The court addresses in detail below the  issues of pervasive harassment and the severity of harassment. Pervasive  harassment requires “more than a few isolated incidents.” (Lyle, supra,  38 Cal.4th at p. 284; see Johnson v. Bunny Bread Co. (8th Cir. 1981) 646  F.2d 1250, 1257 [use of racial slurs, comments, or terms did not violate Title  VII as a matter of law where they did not occur in a steady barrage and were  infrequently used in causal conversations]; Equal Employment Opportunity  Commission v. Murphy Motor Freight Lines, Inc. (D. Minn. 1980) 488 F.Supp.  381, 384 [“[M]ore than a few isolated incidents of harassment must have  occurred. Racial comments that are merely part of casual conversation  [Citation], are accidental, or are sporadic do not trigger Title VII's  sanctions.”].) Because Blake and Cazares’s comments were made in two isolated  incidents, the court finds the comments do not constitute pervasive harassment  as a matter of law. As  to severity of harassment, “[t]he objective severity of harassment must be  judged from the perspective of a reasonable person in plaintiff’s position.” (Beyda  v. City of Los Angeles (1998) 65 Cal.App.4th 511, 519.) “[P]laintiff must  prove that the defendant’s conduct would have interfered with a reasonable  employee’s work performance and would have seriously affected the psychological  well-being of a reasonable employee and that [he or she] was actually offended.’”  (Rehmani v. Superior Court (2012) 204 Cal.App.4th 945, 952, quoting Fisher  v. San Pedro Peninsula Hosp. (1989) 214 Cal.App.3d 590, 609-610.) Here, while  Blake’s comment comparing a workplace training video to a movie could very well  have been offensive or insensitive, no reasonable factfinder could find that it  rises to the level of affecting a reasonable employee’s performance and  seriously affecting the psychological well-being of that employee. Similarly, no  reasonable factfinder could find a vague comment by Cazares about a woman’s  strength in Simpson’s presence rises to the level of affecting a reasonable  employee’s performance and seriously affecting the psychological well-being of  that employee. While a pervasive pattern of such comments may have established  a hostile work environment, these two comments are insufficient to support a  cause of action for race-based harassment. Accordingly,  the court GRANTS the County’s motion as to the First Cause of Action for Harassment Based  on Race. Discrimination (Fourth and Fifth Causes of Action) The  County contends Simpson’s fourth cause of action for racial discrimination and fifth  cause of action for age discrimination in violation of FEHA fail because Simpson  cannot establish a prima facie case, the County had legitimate reasons for its  actions, and Simpson lacks substantial evidence of pretext. The court agrees. Legal Standard A  prima facie case of discrimination “requires a showing that: (1) the plaintiff  was a member of a protected class; (2) the plaintiff was qualified for the  position sought or was performing competently in the position held; (3) the  plaintiff suffered an adverse employment action; and (4) the adverse action  occurred under some circumstance suggesting discriminatory motive.” (Hoglund  v. Sierra Nevada Memorial-Miners Hospital (2024) 102 Cal.App.5th 56, 74.) If  an employee establishes a prima facie case of discrimination, the employer must  then establish “its action was taken for a legitimate, nondiscriminatory  reason.” (Guz v. Bechtel Nat. Inc. (2000) 24 Cal.4th 317, 355-356.) Once  it has done so, “plaintiff must then have the opportunity to attack the  employer's proffered reasons as pretexts for discrimination, or to offer any  other evidence of discriminatory motive.” (Id., at p. 356.) It is  insufficient to “simply show the employer’s decision was wrong, mistaken, or  unwise. Rather, the employee ‘must demonstrate such weaknesses,  implausibilities, inconsistencies, incoherencies, or contradictions in the  employer’s proffered legitimate reasons for its action that a reasonable  factfinder could rationally find them unworthy of credence, [citation],  and hence infer that the employer did not act for the [ ... asserted]  non-discriminatory reasons.’ [Citations.]” (Horn v. Cushman & Wakefield  Western, Inc. (1999) 72 Cal.App.4th 798, 807, quoting Hersant v.  Department of Social Services (1997) 57 Cal.App.4th 997, 1005.) Discussion In  this case, the Complaint only uses the word “discrimination” once in its factual  allegations. (See Complaint, ¶ 8-16.) In paragraph 12(k), the Complaint  alleges DCFS retaliated, harassed, and discriminated against Simpson when they investigated  Simpson for allegedly working overtime without authorization. (Complaint, ¶  12(k).) The Complaint fails to draw any nexus, however, between the  investigation and Simpson’s race or age. Since the pleadings frame the issues,  a moving party defendant is not required “to negate elements of causes of  action plaintiffs never pleaded.” (Melican, supra, 151  Cal.App.4th at p.182.) Since the Complaint fails to allege a prima facie case  as to these causes of action, the County is not required to establish an  absence of triable material fact and the court is not required to consider  Simpson’s additional evidence. In  a supplemental opposition, Simpson contends Simpson had presented evidence of  multiple adverse employment actions including abrupt reassignment, excessive  transfers between supervisors, denial of overtime opportunities, difficulties  in getting timesheets and reports signed, false accusations, abrupt schedule  changes, heightened scrutiny, two conference grams, performance management  involvement, and two suspensions. (Suppl. Opp., p. 3:6-17.) But such evidence  is insufficient as it falls outside the scope of the Complaint. (Robinson v.  Hewlett-Packard Corp. (1986) 183 Cal.App.3d 1108, 1132 [“It is well settled  that documentary evidence filed in opposition to a defendant’s motion for  summary judgment may not create issues outside the pleadings, nor is it a  substitute for an amendment to the pleadings.”].) Accordingly,  the court GRANTS the County’s motion as to the Fourth Cause of Action for Discrimination  on the Basis of Race and the Fifth Cause of Action for Discrimination on the  Basis of Age. Failure to Prevent Harassment and Discrimination  (Ninth Cause of Action) The  County maintains Simpson’s ninth cause of action for failure to prevent  harassment and discrimination in violation of FEHA fails because Simpson’s  underlying harassment and discrimination claims fail. For the reasons, noted  above, the court agrees and GRANTS the County’s motion as to this cause of action. CONCLUSION Based on the foregoing, the  County’s motion for summary judgment or adjudication as to the first, fourth,  fifth, and ninth causes of action is GRANTED.