 Case Number:  21STCV20437    Hearing Date:   March 1, 2024    Dept:  29 Motion to Compel Further Responses to Requests for Production
Tentative
The Court will hear from counsel regarding what disputes (if
any) remain. 
Background
This case arises out of a motor vehicle accident on February
13, 2020, in Downey.  Plaintiff Sharique
Shaikh (“Plaintiff”) filed the Complaint in this action on June 1, 2021,
asserting one cause of action for motor vehicle negligence against Crisoforo
Orozoco Manzaneres (“Defendant”) and Does 1 through 10.  Defendant filed an Answer to the Complaint on
February 15, 2023.
On September 7, 2023, Plaintiff served Defendant with Requests
for Production (Set One).  (Gabriel
Decl., ¶ 2 & Exh. A.)  Defendant served
objection-only responses.  (Id., ¶
3 & Exh. B.)  Meet and confer
correspondence between counsel did not resolve the disputes.  (Id., ¶¶ 4-6 & Exhs. C-E.)
On December 11, 2023, Plaintiff filed this motion to compel
further responses.  Plaintiff also seeks
sanctions.
The parties participated in an Informal Discovery Conference
(IDC) on February 8, 2024.
Defendant has not filed any response.
Legal Standard
“On receipt of a response to a demand for inspection, copying,
testing, or sampling, the demanding party may move for an order compelling
further response to the demand if the demanding party deems that any of the
following apply: (1) A statement of compliance with the demand is
incomplete.  (2) A representation of
inability to comply is inadequate, incomplete, or evasive.  (3) An objection in the response is without
merit or too general.”  (Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 2031.310, subd. (a).)
Notice of a motion to compel further responses must be given
“within 45 days of the service of the verified response, or any supplemental
verified response, or on or before any specific later date to which the
propounding party and the responding party have agreed in writing.” (Id.,
subd. (c).)
A motion to compel further responses must set forth specific
facts showing good cause for the discovery and must be accompanied by a meet-and-confer
declaration and a separate statement or, in the discretion of the Court, a
“concise outline of the discovery request and each response in dispute.” (Id.,
subd. (b)(1)-(3); Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1345.)
“[T]he court shall
impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010)
against any party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a
motion to compel further response to a demand, unless it finds that the one
subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other
circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.310, subd. (h).)
“[I]f a party then
fails to obey an order compelling further response, the court may make those
orders that are just, including the imposition of an issue sanction, an
evidence sanction, or a terminating sanction under Chapter 7 ….  In lieu of, or in addition to, that sanction,
the court may impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7 ….”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.310, subd. (i).)
In Chapter 7 of the
Civil Discovery Act, Code of Civil Procedure section 2023.030, subdivision (a)
provides, in pertinent part, that the court may impose a monetary sanction ordering
that any person “engaging in the misuse of the discovery process, or any
attorney advising that conduct, or both pay the reasonable expenses, including
attorney’s fees, incurred by anyone as a result of that conduct.” A “misuse of
the discovery process” includes (among other things) failing to respond or to
submit to an authorized method of discovery; making, without substantial
justification, an unmeritorious objection to discovery; making an evasive
response to a discovery request; disobeying a court order to provide discovery;
and making or opposing, unsuccessfully, a motion to compel without substantial
justification. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2023.010, subds. (d)-(h).)
Discussion
Plaintiff moves to compel further responses to Requests for
Production Nos. 2, 4, 12, 13, and 14.
Based on the information in the file, the Court’s tentative is
to GRANT as to Requests Nos. 2, 4, 12, and 13. 
Defendant’s objections are OVERRULED. 
The category of documents requested is properly described, the documents
are within the scope of proper discovery, and Plaintiff has shown good cause
for the discovery.
Based on the information in the file, the Court’s tentative is
to DENY as to Request No. 14.  The work
product objection is SUSTAINED.
Conclusion
The Court will hear from counsel.