 Case Number:  23STCV19098    Hearing Date:   March 1, 2024    Dept:  29 Plaintiffs’ Motion to Compel Further Responses to Form
Interrogatories
Plaintiffs’ Motion to Compel Further Responses to Requests for Production
Tentative
The Court will hear from counsel regarding whether DoorDash’s
most recent discovery responses resolved, or did not resolve, the disputes.
Background
The case arises out of a fatal automobile accident on June 7,
2023, on La Cienega Boulevard in the Pico-Robertson area of Los Angeles.  Plaintiffs The Estate of Bing Wang (by and
through its successor-in-interest Xiaomei Wang), Xiaomei Wang, and Wenxuan Wang
(collectively, “Plaintiffs”) filed the Complaint in this action on August 10,
2023, asserting causes of action for wrongful death/negligence, negligence,
negligent infliction of emotional distress, and loss of consortium against Defendant
DoorDash, Inc. (“DoorDash”), Vladimir Tishchenko (“Tishchenko”), and Does 1
through 10.
DoorDash and Tishchenko filed their Answers to the Complaint
on September 26 and October 17, 2023.
On September 28, 2023, Plaintiffs served DoorDash with
discovery, including Form Interrogatories (Set One) and Requests for Production
(Set One).  (Glassman Decls., ¶ 6 &
Exhs. 4.)  
With regard to the interrogatories, DoorDash served objections
and unverified responses on November 14 and a verification on November 16.  (Glassman Interrogatory Decl., ¶¶ 8-10.)  DoorDash served supplemental responses on
November 22.  (Id., ¶ 10 & Exh. 7.)  
Plaintiffs contend that DoorDash’s interrogatory responses are
still not code compliant.  Plaintiffs
filed their motion to compel further responses on November 27, DoorDash filed
its opposition on December 8, and Plaintiffs filed their reply on December
14.  The hearing was initially set for
December 21.  On December 21, the Court
continued the hearing to March 1, 2024, so that the parties could participate
in an Informal Discovery Conference (IDC).
With regard to the document requests, DoorDash served responses
on December 1 and supplemental responses on December 18 and January 3.  (Glassman Document Decl., ¶¶ 8, 10 & Exhs.
5, 7, 9.)  
Plaintiffs contend that DoorDash’s responses are still not code
compliant.  Plaintiffs filed their motion
to compel further responses on January 5, DoorDash filed its opposition on January
19, and Plaintiffs filed their reply on January 25.  The hearing was initially set for February 1.
On January 25, 2024, the parties participated in an IDC.  DoorDash agreed to provide supplemental
responses to the interrogatories and document requests by February 8.  The Court continued the hearing on the document
request motion to March 1.
Legal Standard
“On receipt of a response to interrogatories, the propounding
party may move for an order compelling a further response if the propounding
party deems that any of the following apply: (1) An answer to a particular
interrogatory is evasive or incomplete. (2) An exercise of the option to
produce documents under Section 2030.230 is unwarranted or the required
specification of those documents is inadequate. (3) An objection to an
interrogatory is without merit or too general.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.300, subd. (a).)
Notice of a motion to compel further responses must be given
“within 45 days of the service of the verified response, or any supplemental
verified response, or on or before any specific later date to which the
propounding party and the responding party have agreed in writing.” (Id.,
subd. (c).)
A motion to compel further responses must be accompanied by a meet-and-confer
declaration and a separate statement or, in the discretion of the Court, a
“concise outline of the discovery request and each response in dispute.” (Id.,
subd. (b)(1) & (b)(2); Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1345.)
“The court shall
impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010)
against any party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a
motion to compel a further response to interrogatories, unless it finds that
the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that
other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.300, subd. (d).)
“On receipt of a response to a demand for inspection, copying,
testing, or sampling, the demanding party may move for an order compelling
further response to the demand if the demanding party deems that any of the
following apply: (1) A statement of compliance with the demand is
incomplete.  (2) A representation of
inability to comply is inadequate, incomplete, or evasive.  (3) An objection in the response is without
merit or too general.”  (Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 2031.310, subd. (a).)
Notice of a motion to compel further responses must be given
“within 45 days of the service of the verified response, or any supplemental
verified response, or on or before any specific later date to which the
propounding party and the responding party have agreed in writing.” (Id.,
subd. (c).)
A motion to compel further responses must set forth specific
facts showing good cause for the discovery and must be accompanied by a meet-and-confer
declaration and a separate statement or, in the discretion of the Court, a
“concise outline of the discovery request and each response in dispute.” (Id.,
subd. (b)(1)-(3); Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1345.)
“[T]he court shall
impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010)
against any party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a
motion to compel further response to a demand, unless it finds that the one
subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other
circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.310, subd. (h).)
In Chapter 7 of the
Civil Discovery Act, Code of Civil Procedure section 2023.030, subdivision (a)
provides, in pertinent part, that the court may impose a monetary sanction ordering
that any person “engaging in the misuse of the discovery process, or any
attorney advising that conduct, or both pay the reasonable expenses, including
attorney’s fees, incurred by anyone as a result of that conduct.” A “misuse of
the discovery process” includes (among other things) failing to respond or to
submit to an authorized method of discovery; making, without substantial
justification, an unmeritorious objection to discovery; making an evasive
response to a discovery request; disobeying a court order to provide discovery;
and making or opposing, unsuccessfully, a motion to compel without substantial
justification. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2023.010, subds. (d)-(h).)
Discussion
Plaintiffs move for orders: (1) compelling DoorDash to provide
further responses to Form Interrogatories 4.1, 12.1, 20.3, 20.4, and 20.8; and
(2) compelling DoorDash to provide further responses to Requests for Production
(Set One), Nos. 6, 11, 13, 17, 32, 34, and 35.
The Court will hear from counsel regarding what disputes
remain.
Conclusion
 