 Case Number:  22STCV32379    Hearing Date:   March 1, 2024    Dept:  29 Motion to Specially Set Hearing for Motion for Summary  Judgment or in the Alternative, to Continue Trial Date, filed by Defendant  Walmart, Inc.   Tentative   The motion to continue trial is granted.   Background On October 3,  2022, Plaintiff Sofia Aparicio (“Plaintiff”) filed her complaint against  Walmart, Inc. (“Defendant”), Brooke Bramlett, and Does 1 to 20 for General  Negligence and Premises Liability causes of action from a slip and fall  occurring on October 5, 2020.   Trial is  currently scheduled for April 2, 2024.   On December 12,  2023, Defendant filed its motion for summary  judgment.  The hearing is set for March  3, 2025.   On February 2, 2024, Defendant filed this  motion to advance the hearing for the motion for summary judgment or in the  alternative, to continue trial. Plaintiff filed a “contingent non-opposition”  on February 16, 2024. Legal Standard Code Civ. Proc. § 128(a)(8) provides that the  court has the power to amend and control its process and orders so as to make  them conform to law and justice. “The power to determine when a continuance  should be granted is within the discretion of the trial court.” (Color-Vue,  Inc. v. Abrams (1996) 44 Cal.App.4th 1599, 1603.) “A trial court has wide  latitude in the matter of calendar control including the granting or denying of  continuances.” (Park Motors, Inc. v. Cozens (1975) 49 Cal.App.3d 12, 18.)   Each request for a continuance must be  considered on its own merits according to California Rules of Court, Rule  3.1332(c). The court may grant a continuance only on an affirmative showing of  good cause requiring the continuance. Circumstances of good cause include:   “(1) The unavailability of an essential lay  or expert witness because of death, illness, or other excusable  circumstances;   (2) The unavailability of a party because of  death, illness, or other excusable circumstances;   (3) The unavailability of trial counsel  because of death, illness, or other excusable circumstances;   (4) The substitution of trial counsel, but  only where there is an affirmative showing that the substitution is required in  the interests of justice;   (5) The addition of a new party if: (A) The  new party has not had a reasonable opportunity to conduct discovery and prepare  for trial; or (B) The other parties have not had a reasonable opportunity to  conduct discovery and prepare for trial in regard to the new party's  involvement in the case;   (6) A party's excused inability to obtain  essential testimony, documents, or other material evidence despite diligent  efforts; or   (7) A significant, unanticipated change in  the status of the case as a result of which the case is not ready for  trial.”   (Cal. Rules of  Court, Rule 3.1332(c).)     California Rules  of Court, Rule 3.1332 sets forth a list of non-exhaustive factors to be  analyzed when determining whether good cause for a trial continuance is  present. A court considers factors such as:    “(1) The proximity of the trial date;   (2) Whether there was any previous  continuance, extension of time, or delay of trial due to any party;   (3) The length of the continuance  requested;   (4) The availability of alternative means to  address the problem that gave rise to the motion or application for a  continuance;   (5) The prejudice that parties or witnesses  will suffer as a result of the continuance;  (6) If the case is entitled to a preferential  trial setting, the reasons for that status and whether the need for a  continuance outweighs the need to avoid delay;  (7) The court's calendar and the impact of  granting a continuance on other pending trials;  (8) Whether trial counsel is engaged in  another trial;   (9) Whether all parties have stipulated to a  continuance;   (10) Whether the interests of justice are  best served by a continuance, by the trial of the matter, or by imposing  conditions on the continuance; and   (11) Any other fact or circumstance relevant  to the fair determination of the motion or application.”   (Cal. Rules of Court, Rule 3.1332(d).)  “A trial court may not refuse to hear a summary judgment  motion filed within the time limits of section 437c.” (Sentry Ins. Co. v.  Superior Court (1989) 207 Cal.App.3d 526, 529; accord Cole v. Superior  Court (2022) 87 Cal.App.5th 84, 88.) Discussion Defendant contends that there  is good cause to advance the hearing for summary judgment.  The Court cannot accommodate that request as  it has no available hearing dates for a motion for summary judgment prior to  the trial. In the alternative, the  parties jointly propose a summary judgment hearing in July.  The Court does not have available hearing  dates for a motion for summary judgment in July. Defendant requests in the  alternative to continue trial.  Plaintiff  filed a notice of non-opposition that is “contingent upon continuance to a  trial date that is not beyond six months from the current trial date, or no  later than October 2, 2024.”  Because of the impacted calendar  of the Personal Injury Hub courts, the Court cannot accommodate the request to advance  or specially set the hearing date on the summary judgment motion.  Of course, the parties are free to check to  see whether an earlier date is available on the CRS system. The Court finds Defendant has shown good cause for a continuance, as  Defendant has the right to have the motion for summary judgment heard prior to  trial.  Accordingly, the Court continues  trial to late April 2025.  Conclusion   Defendant’s motion to advance the hearing for summary judgment is  DENIED.  Defendant’s motion to continue trial is GRANTED.  The Court  continues the trial to a date in late April 2025.  The Final Status Conference and all deadlines  are reset based on the new hearing date.Final Status Conference is continued to 04/02/2025 at 10:00 AM in Department 29 at Spring   Street Courthouse. Non-Jury Trial is continued to 04/16/2025 at 08:30 AM in Department 29 at   Spring Street Courthouse.On the Court's own motion, the Order to Show Cause Re: Dismissal scheduled for 09/30/2024 is 
advanced to this date and vacated.  Moving Party is  ORDERED to give notice.  