 Case Number:  BC717774    Hearing Date:   November 16, 2023    Dept:  52 Plaintiff Michal Ben-Shoshan’s Motion
Strike or, in the Alternative, to Tax Costs 
Plaintiff
Michal Ben-Shoshan moves to strike or tax numerous items in defendant Zohar
Tsfira’s memorandum of costs.
Under
Code of Civil Procedure section 1032, the prevailing party is entitled to
recover costs.  (§ 1032(b).)  Section 1033.5, subdivision (a) sets forth a
list of allowable costs.  Section 1033.5,
subdivision (b) lists costs that are not allowable.  “ ‘An item not specifically allowable under
subdivision (a) nor prohibited under subdivision (b) may nevertheless be
recoverable in the discretion of the court if “reasonably necessary to the
conduct of the litigation rather than merely convenient or beneficial to its
preparation.” (§ 1033.5, subd. (c)(2).)’ ” 
(Sanford v. Rasnick (2016) 246
Cal.App.4th 1121, 1128 (Sanford).)  All costs awarded by the court must be
reasonable and necessary.  (7 Witkin,
Cal. Procedure (5th ed. 2008) Judgment, § 118, pp. 657-658.) 
If
the items on a memorandum of costs appear proper on their face, the prevailing
party has produced prima facie evidence the costs were reasonable and necessary
(Seaver v. Copley Press, Inc. (2006)
141 Cal.App.4th 1550, 1557 (Seaver); Doe v. Department of Children & Family
Services (2019) 37 Cal.app.5th 675, 693), and the burden is on the party
seeking to tax costs to show otherwise. 
(Sanford, supra, 246 Cal.App.4th at p. 1128; accord Benach v. County of Los Angeles (2007) 149 Cal.App.4th 836, 855 (Benach) [if the claimed costs are
expressly allowable, “ ‘the burden is on the objecting party to show them to be
unnecessary or unreasonable’ ”].)  “[I]t
is not enough for the losing party to attack the submitted costs by arguing
that he thinks the costs were not necessary or reasonable.  Rather, the losing party has the burden to
present evidence and prove that the claimed costs are not recoverable.”  (Seaver,
at p. 1557.)  
Striking
Entire Memorandum of Costs
Plaintiff
moves to strike the entire memorandum of costs for three reasons.  First, she argues the court should strike all
costs because she received a waiver of court fees.  She provides no authority permitting a court
to strike a prevailing party’s entire memorandum of costs on that basis.  A fee waiver generally applies only to
specified court costs.  (Gov. Code, § 68631;
Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.55.)  Second,
plaintiff argues defendant “used his insurance to pay for his representation
and costs.”  That is irrelevant.  “Costs are allowable if incurred, whether or
not paid.”  (CCP § 1033.5(c)(1).)  Third, plaintiff argues the court should
strike all costs because defendant did not fill out the second page of form
MC-010 concerning service of the memorandum. 
The memorandum, however, includes an attached proof of service on
plaintiff.  
Court
Reporter Fees
            Plaintiff moves to tax all $21,685
in court reporter fees in defendant’s memorandum of costs.  “Court
reporter fees as established by statute” are recoverable.  (CCP § 1033.5(a)(11).)  Among other reasons, plaintiff argues she
should not be required to pay this cost because of her fee waiver.  “The fee” for an official court reporter “shall
be waived for a person who has been granted a fee waiver under Section 68631.”  (Gov. Code, § 68086(b).)  Government Code section 68086(d)(2) provides,
“The Judicial Council shall adopt rules to ensure… [t]hat if an official court
reporter is not available, a party may arrange for, at the party’s expense, the
presence of a certified shorthand reporter to serve as an official pro tempore
reporter.  …  The fees and charges of the certified
shorthand reporter shall be recoverable as taxable costs by the prevailing
party as otherwise provided by law.”  
California Rules of Court, rule 2.956(c) provides, “If
the services of an official court reporter are not available for a hearing or
trial in a civil case, a party may: (1) Arrange for the presence of a certified
shorthand reporter to serve as an official pro tempore reporter, whom the court
must appoint unless there is good cause shown to refuse to do so.  It is that party’s responsibility to pay the reporter’s
fee for attendance at the proceedings, but the expense may be recoverable as
part of the costs, as provided by law; or (2) 
If the party has been granted a fee waiver, request that the court
provide an official reporter for attendance at the proceedings.  The court must provide an official reporter if
the party has been granted a fee waiver and if the court is not electronically
recording the hearing or trial.”  If the
party with a fee waiver makes a proper and timely request, “[t]he court reporter’s
attendance is to be provided at no fee or cost to the fee waiver recipient.”  (Rule 2.956(c)(2)(D).)
On July 29, 2022, plaintiff filed a request on form
LASC CIV 269 for court reporting services at no cost pursuant to her fee
waiver.  She timely filed her request
more than 10 days before the trial, which began August 24, 2022.  With limited exceptions, however, the court
did not provide an official court reporter at the trial—a common occurrence in
civil actions.  Many “of the superior
courts throughout the state have adopted new policies limiting the availability
of official court reporters to only a narrow category of civil cases, which
generally do not include ordinary contract, personal injury, or professional
negligence cases.”  (Jameson v. Desta
(2018) 5 Cal.5th 594, 610 (Jameson).) 
Defendant arranged for a certified reporter and incurred $21,685 in
expenses.  
Taxing these costs is appropriate.  “[U]nder California law
when a litigant in a judicial proceeding has qualified for in forma pauperis
status, a court may not consign the indigent litigant to a costly private
alternative procedure that the litigant cannot afford and that effectively
negates the purpose and benefit of in forma pauperis status.  In other words, whatever a court’s authority
may be in general to outsource to privately compensated individuals or entities
part or all of the court’s judicial duties with respect to litigants who can
pay for such private services, a court may not engage in such outsourcing in
the case of in forma pauperis litigants when the practical effect is to deprive
such litigants of the equal access to justice that in forma pauperis status was
intended to afford.”  (Jameson, supra,
5 Cal.4th at p. 622.)  In Jameson,
“no court reporter was present,” so “no reporter’s transcript of the trial was
available or prepared.”  (Id. at
p. 598.)  The California Supreme Court held
that “the trial court erred in failing to make an official court reporter
available to plaintiff upon request.”  (Id.
at p. 623.)  
Here,
rather than proceeding without a court reporter, defendant provided one.  Defendant prevailed at trial and now claims
$21,685 in court reporter fees.  Plaintiff
was entitled to an official court reporter at no cost.  The court was obligated to provide one.    Requiring
plaintiff to pay this great expense would negate the purpose and benefit of in forma
pauperis status.  Doing so would have a
chilling effect on indigent litigants’ “ability to obtain meaningful access to
the judicial process.”  (Jameson,
supra, 5 Cal.5th at p. 604.)  The
court therefore will tax all court reporter fees.
The
court also taxes these court reporter fees as “merely convenient or beneficial”
to litigating this action rather than “reasonably necessary to the conduct of
the litigation.”  (CCP § 1033.5(c)(2).)  Defendant knew plaintiff “was granted an
official court reporter for the trial” due to her fee waiver.  (Carpenter Decl., ¶ 9.)  There was a “shortage of reporter[s].”  (Ibid.)  Defendant’s counsel states, “Defendant informed
Plaintiff and the Court, that it would provide its reporter as a backup.  A court reporter provided by the court did not
appear for any other day of trial, and as such Defendant was required to
provide and pay for the reporter.  Defendant’s
counsel never asked the court provided court reporter to appear.”  (Ibid.)
Defendant
thus knew plaintiff was entitled to an official court reporter at no cost. Waiting
for one to be available may have been inconvenient.  By providing a reporter, defendant avoided
that inconvenience.  But doing so was not
reasonably necessary to the conduct of the litigation.    
Other
Expenses
            Defendant is entitled to recover all
other expenses stated in the memorandum of costs.  “Filing, motion, and jury fees” (CCP §
1033.5(a)(1)), “[t]aking, video recording, and transcribing necessary
depositions” (id., subd. (a)(3)(A)) are expressly allowed.  Plaintiff makes only conclusory arguments
that these fees were not necessary.  The
court finds they were all reasonably necessary. 
“[T]he enlargements of exhibits and photocopies of exhibits … may be
allowed if they were reasonably helpful to aid the trier of fact.”  (Id., subd. (a)(13).)  The court finds defendant incurred a
reasonable amount of fees in copying and presenting exhibits, which were
reasonably helpful to aid the trier of fact. 
Defendant also reasonably incurred all claimed “[f]ees for the
electronic filing or service of documents through an electronic filing service
provider if a court requires or orders electronic filing or service of
documents.”  (Id., subd.
(a)(14).)  The court’s first amended
general order issued May 3, 2019, requires represented litigants to
electronically file documents.    
Plaintiff
moves to tax $1,172 defendant paid to “Westlake investigation.”  (MC-011, p. 5.)  “Investigation expenses in preparing the case
for trial” are not recoverable.  (CCP §
1033.5(b)(2).)  Defendant’s
counsel, however, states, “[T]he Westlake investigation cost of $1,172.60 was
incurred to personally serve witnesses for depositions and advance witness fees.”  (Carpenter Decl., ¶ 10.)  The invoice from Westlake Investigation
Agency, Inc. states it is for “Service of deposition subpoenas” and itemized
costs including “Witness Fees” (Memo. of Costs, p. 45 of 47.)  “Service of process” (CCP § 1033.5(a)(4)) and
“[o]rdinary witness fees” (id., subd. (a)(7)) are recoverable.  That the service provider was named “Westlake
Investigation Agency, Inc.” does not supersede defendant’s evidence that the
expense was incurred for recoverable purposes.
All
other costs not expressly allowed were reasonably necessary to litigate this
action and were reasonable in amount.  The
court exercises its discretion under Code of Civil Procedure section
1033.5(c)(4) to allow them.
In
the opposition, defendant belatedly seeks to claim an additional $1,700 in
deposition costs.  “A prevailing party
who claims costs must serve and file a memorandum of costs within 15 days after
the date of service of the notice of entry of judgment or dismissal.”  (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1700(a)(1).)  Defendant may not claim additional costs via the
opposition to plaintiff’s motion.  
Disposition    
            Plaintiff Michal Ben-Shoshan’s motion
to strike or tax defendant Zohar Tsfira’s memorandum of costs is granted in
part.  The court hereby taxes
defendant’s memorandum of costs by $21,685 for court reporter fees.  Defendant Zohar Tsfira shall recover $10,218.00
in costs from plaintiff Michal Ben-Shoshan.