  Case Number:  21STCV26552    Hearing Date:   November 16, 2023    Dept:  52 Specially Appearing Defendants
Dalya Eilat, Veetahl Eilat Rachel, and Aaron Eilat’s Motion to Stay Action for
Forum Non Conveniens
Defendants Dalya Eilat, Veetahl Eilat Rachel, and
Aaron Eilat move to stay this action under the doctrine of forum non
conveniens.  On August 24, 2023, the
court heard this motion and ordered the parties to brief “whether
the other defendant, 439 Bonnie Brae LLC, precludes staying or dismissing the
action as to the moving defendants for forum non conveniens.”  (Aug. 24, 2023 Minute Order, p. 7.)
Courts use a two-step process in applying forum non
conveniens. “[A] court must first determine whether the alternate forum is a
‘suitable’ place for trial.  If it is,
the next step is to consider the private interests of the litigants and the
interests of the public in retaining the action for trial in California.” (Stangvik
v. Shiley Inc. (1991) 54 Cal.3d 744, 751.) 
At the prior hearing, the court found Israel is a suitable place for
trial (as to plaintiff and the three moving defendants) and that the private
and public interests weigh substantially in favor of litigating this action in
Israel.
Defendant
439 Bonnie Brae, LLC
Plaintiff’s
second amended complaint alleges causes of action for conversion, fraud, and
declaratory relief against four defendants: the three moving defendants and 439
Bonnie Brae LLC, a California limited liability company (Bonnie Brae).  The presence of defendant Bonnie Brae could
prevent applying forum non conveniens. 
“[A] moving defendant seeking to establish an alternative forum is
suitable must show that all defendants are subject to jurisdiction in
the proposed alternative forum.”  (David
v. Medtronic, Inc. (2015) 237 Cal.App.4th 734, 743 (David).)  But “a plaintiff cannot defeat a motion”
based on forum non conveniens “merely by naming a nominal defendant who is not
subject to jurisdiction in the” alternative forum or “by including as a
defendant a party who … is of no real importance to the outcome of the
case.”  (Id. at p. 744.)  When the plaintiff has named a nominal
defendant not subject to jurisdiction in the alternative forum, the court must
“sever the nominal defendant and allow the action to continue to proceed
against him in California.”  (Ibid.)  
In
their new briefs, neither side provided authority on what makes someone a
“nominal defendant” for purposes of forum non conveniens.  In David, the plaintiffs brought “a
products liability action regarding a medical device.”  (237 Cal.App.4th at p. 737.)  Plaintiffs sued six companies that developed,
manufactured, and sold the device and a physician, Dr. Michelson, who allegedly
“ ‘promoted, invented, marketed and designed’ ” the device.  (Id. at p. 738.)  The manufacturer “proffered evidence that Dr.
Michelson had no involvement in the creation, design, promotion or marketing of”
the device.  (Id. at p. 739.)  Plaintiffs forfeited “the issue of whether
Dr. Michelson was, in fact, a nominal defendant” because “they made no such
argument before the trial court.”  (Id.
at p. 742.)  The Court of Appeal
proceeded to note “it is apparent that establishing liability against Dr.
Michelson on” plaintiffs’ theory that he endorsed the medical device “will be
something of an uphill battle for plaintiffs and, more importantly, it will be
a battle ancillary to the main war of whether Medtronic is liable for
plaintiffs’ … injuries.”  (Ibid.)  
In the analogous context of federal diversity
jurisdiction, courts “must disregard nominal or formal parties and rest
jurisdiction only upon the citizenship of real parties to the controversy.”  (Navarro Sav. Ass'n v. Lee (1980) 446
U.S. 458, 461.)  In Strotek
Corp. v. Air Transport Ass'n. of America (9th Cir. 2002) 300 F.3d
1129, 1133, the Ninth Circuit held a defendant was “nominal” when it had no
“personal stake in the outcome of this case” and was “dissolved, ha[d] no
operations, and its liabilities ha[d] been transferred” to another entity.  Similarly, in Labertew v. Langemeier
(9th Cir. 2017) 846 F.3d 1028, 1031-1032, the Ninth Circuit did not consider
the citizenship of a defendant with “no interest in the dispute” because she
was “protected by a covenant not to execute” on a stipulated judgment against
her, thus making her “a ‘nominal part[y] with nothing at stake.’ ”
Bonnie
Brae may have nothing at stake in this action. 
The second amended complaint makes only three specific allegations about
439 Bonnie Brae, LLC: (1) it is a California limited liability company (SAC, ¶
6), (2) it is the General Partner of 427 Westlake Apartments, LP (SAC, ¶ 13.h;
RJN, Ex. G), and (3) “Lila Eilat was the Manager of 439 Bonnie Brae LLC” (SAC,
¶ 13.h).  Aside from those allegations,
the second amended complaint only refers to 439 Bonnie Brae, LLC when using the
plural “defendants” to refer to all defendants jointly. 
Plaintiff
submitted evidence that 439 Bonnie Brae, LLC was the sole general partner of 427
Westlake Apartments, L.P.—in 2002, when the limited partnership was formed.  (Opp. RJN, Ex. G.)  At the prior hearing, however, the court took
judicial notice of the fact that 439 Bonnie Brae LLC filed a certificate of
cancellation with the Secretary of State on March 15, 2019.  Defendants now present the declaration of
Lila Eilat, who was Bonnie Brae’s registered agent for service.  (L. Eilat Decl., ¶ 3.)  She states, “439 Bonnie Brae is not the
General Partner of 427 Westlake Apartments, L.P.” (Id., ¶ 4.)  She further states, “Neither Dalya, Veetahl,
nor Aaron Eilat”, the other three defendants, “have a membership interest in
439 Bonnie Brae, LLC, and they never had such an interest, nor do they have any
interest in the building itself.  Any
statement that 439 Bonnie Brae is somehow involved with these Individual
Defendants is incorrect.”  (Id., ¶
5.)  
Plaintiff
has presented no other evidence about Bonnie Brae.  His supplemental brief makes conclusory
arguments that it “is at the heart of Plaintiff’s theory of the case as to all
Defendants” (Supp. Opp., p. 2) and it “appears to be not only one of the
entities at issue in this case, but an especially important one based on its
connection to Lila Eilat and other properties as well” (id., p. 3).  Plaintiff also does not explain why being
connected to non-party Lila Eilat matters. 
He gives no cognizable reason for naming 439 Bonnie Brae, LLC as a
defendant in this action.  The second
amended complaint makes more substantive allegations about 11 other entities,
which it refers to “as the ‘Subject Entities.’ ” (SAC, ¶ 13.)  Several of those entities are connected to
Lila Eilat.  Yet plaintiff named none of
those entities as defendants.  
Although
plaintiff claims to have a legitimate reason for naming Bonnie Brae in this
action, plaintiff has not diligently prosecuted this action against that
defendant.  Plaintiff filed proof of
service of summons on defendant 439 Bonnie Brae, LLC on October 26, 2021.  It has not responded to the complaint nor
made any other appearance in this action. 
California Rules of Court, rule 3.110(g) provides, “If a responsive
pleading is not served within the time limits specified in this rule and no
extension of time has been granted, the plaintiff must file a request for entry
of default within 10 days after the time for service has elapsed.”  Though the deadline was two years ago,
plaintiff never requested entry of default against 439 Bonnie Brae, LLC.  After plaintiff filed the first amended
complaint, he filed proof of service on 439 Bonnie Brae, LLC on April 25, 2023.  Plaintiff filed the operative second amended
complaint on June 20, 2023, but has not filed proof of service of it on 439
Bonnie Brae, LLC.  
The
above factors support the conclusion that Bonnie Brae is merely a nominal
defendant who remains in this action for the purpose of avoiding the doctrine
of forum non conveniens.  The
court will not, however, sever the action and apply forum non conveniens
at this time.  There may be a more
efficient and practical alternative. 
Bonnie Brae did not respond to the initial complaint or first amended
complaint.  After serving the second
amended complaint on Bonnie Brae, plaintiff may proceed to seek default
judgment against it.  If plaintiff
obtains default judgment against Bonnie Brae, or if the action against Bonnie
Brae were dismissed because plaintiff proves unable to obtain default judgment
or for any other reason, Bonnie Brae would have nothing left at stake in this
action.
The
court will exercise its inherent power to stay this action as against
defendants Dalya Eilat, Veetahl Eilat
Rachel, and Aaron Eilat.  “Trial
courts generally have the inherent power to stay proceedings in the interests
of justice and to promote judicial efficiency.” 
(Freiberg v. City of Mission Viejo (1995) 33 Cal.App.4th 1484,
1489.)  
Disposition
The
court hereby stays the entire action as to defendants Dalya Eilat, Veetahl Eilat Rachel, and Aaron
Eilat.
The
court hereby orders plaintiff to show cause why the court should not
dismiss the action against defendant 439 Bonnie Brae, LLC for delay in
prosecution under California Rules of Court, rule 3.1340(a), on January 19,
2024, at 9:00 a.m.
The
court further orders plaintiff to forthwith serve Bonnie Brae with the second
amended complaint and to seek an entry of default and then a default judgment as
quickly as possible.  On or before
January 11, 2024, plaintiff shall file a report, supported by a sworn
declaration, regarding what efforts, if any, plaintiff has made to prosecute
this action against Bonnie Brae.
The
court hereby continues the hearing on defendants Dalya Eilat, Veetahl Eilat Rachel, and Aaron Eilat’s motion to stay for
forum non conveniens to March 25, 2023, at 9:00 a.m.