 Case Number:  23STCV04276    Hearing Date:   October 2, 2023    Dept:  15 [TENTATIVE] ORDER RE MOTIONS IN LIMINE
Defendants’ MIL No. 1
            Defendant
Union Carbide moves to exclude any mention of its relationship with Dow
Chemical.  This motion is too vague.  If at trial Plaintiffs ask questions about
Dow Chemical that are irrelevant, Defendant can object at that time.  The motion is denied without prejudice to
objections at trial.
Defendants’ MIL No. 1
Defendant Ferguson
Enterprises, LLC seeks to exclude references to damages amounts in voir dire
and opening statements.  First, trial
practices are not the proper subject of motions in limine, and the trial court
will have its own rules about voir dire. 
Second, if Plaintiffs have evidence to prove a certain amount of
damages, they can state in opening that the evidence will prove that amount of
damages.  If Plaintiffs fail to prove
that amount, then in closing Defendants can emphasize Plaintiffs failed to satisfy
their burden of proof.
            The
motion is denied without prejudice to objections at trial.
Defendants’ MIL No. 1
            J-M
Manufacturing Company, Inc. moves to exclude references to asbestos-cement pipe
being “friable” or “inherently dangerous” as contrary to the evidence and
prejudicial.  Defendant argues that in
fact the product is legal and safe.  This
is in effect a motion for summary judgment. 
The court cannot resolve a disputed factual issue on a motion for
summary judgment.  The motion is denied
without prejudice to objections at trial.
Defendants’ MIL No. 2
Defendant Union Carbide
moves to exclude evidence of working conditions at its facilities as irrelevant
and unduly prejudicial.  This motion is
too vague.  If “working conditions”
refers to something like wage and hour violations, that would be
irrelevant.  However, if it refers to
something like workers being exposed to asbestos, the evidence could be
relevant.  For example, the evidence of
asbestos exposure at the facilities could be relevant to knowledge or notice.
            The
motion is denied without prejudice to objections at trial.
Defendants’ MIL No. 2
            Defendant
Ferguson Enterprises, LLC seeks to exclude J-M Manufacturing documents as to
Ferguson because they are vague and ambiguous, incomplete, untrustworthy, and
hearsay.  The motion does not identify
specific documents to exclude.  It is too
vague.  The motion is denied without
prejudice to objections at trial.
Defendants’ MIL No. 2
J-M Manufacturing moves
to exclude arguments that there is no safe level of asbestos, and every
exposure contributes to a cumulative dose as unsupported by science and
contrary to the law.  This motion is too
vague as Defendant does not identify any specific expert testimony to be
excluded.    
In addition, the motion
would exclude arguments about the standard for proving causation and what
“substantial factor” means.  Under the
July 8, 2022 CMO, motions to exclude expert opinion about the term “substantial
factor” are deemed made and denied without prejudice to objections at
trial.  Defendant did not show good cause
to depart from this order.
Defendant also argues that
Plaintiffs have two pathologists and two experts about fiber release, and
duplicative testimony should not be allowed. 
If at trial Plaintiffs ask duplicative questions or seek to call
multiple witnesses to give duplicative testimony, Defendant should object then.
The motion is denied
without prejudice to objections at trial.
Defendants’ MIL No. 3
Defendant Ferguson
Enterprises, LLC seeks to exclude evidence and argument about a post-sale
failure to warn.  Pursuant to the July 8,
2022 CMO, a motion to exclude evidence of a post-sale duty to warn and failure
to conduct a recall or post-sale warning campaign is deemed made and denied so
long as there is an operative negligence cause of action.  Defendant did not show good cause to depart
from this order.
            The
motion is denied without prejudice to objections at trial.
Defendants’ MIL No. 3; Motion to Bifurcate
            J-M
Manufacturing and Union Carbide move to bifurcate punitive damages.  The parties should have stipulated to
this.  The motions are granted.
Defendants’ MIL No. 3
Union Carbide moves to
exclude any reference to incidents where people died or were injured as a
result of Union Carbide’s chemicals other than asbestos.  Incidents not involving asbestos are
irrelevant, more prejudicial than probative and would be unduly time consuming.
            The
motion is granted.
Defendants’ MIL No. 4
J-M Manufacturing moves
to exclude references to a 1989 proposed EPA ban that never went into effect
because it was invalidated by the Fifth Circuit Court of Appeals as not
supported by sufficient evidence.  If
Defendants contend they did not know about the hazards of asbestos by 1989, this
evidence may go to notice or knowledge. 
Defendants can cross-examine the witness about the fact that the
proposed ban was never effective and was invalidated by the court for lack of
evidence.  That cross-examination can be
done efficiently, which just a few questions and does not need to consume an
undue amount of time.
The motion is denied
without prejudice to contemporaneous objections at trial.
Defendants’ MIL No. 5
Defendant J-M
Manufacturing moves to exclude any reference about Defendant, J-M A/C Pipe
Corporation and/or Formosa Plastics Corporation, U.S.A. being successor
corporations or alter egos or having successor liability because Plaintiffs
cannot prove such successor liability.  If
successor liability is an issue and needs to be tried, it is a matter for the
trial court, not the jury.  The parties
are to raise the matter of how successor liability is to be tried with the
trial judge.
            The
motion is denied without prejudice to objections at trial.
Defendants’ MIL No. 6
J-M Manufacturing moves
to exclude evidence of working conditions at its facilities as irrelevant and
unduly prejudicial.  This motion is too
vague.  If “working conditions” refers to
something like wage and hour violations, that would be irrelevant.  However, if it refers to something like
workers being exposed to asbestos, the evidence could be relevant.  For example, the evidence of asbestos
exposure at the facilities could be relevant to knowledge or notice.
            The
motion is denied without prejudice to objections at trial.
Defendants’ MIL No. 7
            J-M
Manufacturing seeks to exclude evidence about its compliance with 1972 OSHA
labeling regulations because the regulations do not require warning labels on
their products.  To the extent this
motion seeks a ruling on Plaintiffs’ failure to warn claims, it is an improper
motion for summary adjudication. 
Otherwise, the motion is too vague. 
The motion is denied without prejudice to objections at trial.
Defendants’ MIL No. 8
J-M Manufacturing moves
to exclude any evidence of lobbying activities. 
The motion is too vague and does not identify any specific evidence to
be excluded.  Therefore, the motion is
denied without prejudice to objections at trial.
Defendants’ MIL No. 9
J-M Manufacturing moves
to exclude testimony and videos from William Longo and Richard Hatfield about
work simulations because the simulations are not similar to Robert Bruna’s
exposure.  Defendant argues the simulations
took place in small sealed chambers, used improper testing methods such as TEM
analysis not recognized by OSHA, and will be confusing to the jury because the
conditions are so different.  Whether TEM
is an appropriate method “goes to the weight and not the admissibility of the
opinions.”  (Strobel v. Johnson &
Johnson (2021) 70 Cal.App.5th 796, 811-812.)
            At
trial, Defendants can cross-examine the experts about the similarities and
differences of Plaintiff’s exposure to a small, sealed chamber and argue the
jury should give the videos no weight because of the different conditions.  The motion is denied without prejudice to
objections at trial.
Defendants’ MIL No. 10
            J-M
Manufacturing moves to exclude evidence and argument that it has liability for
any product made, sold, or distributed by John-Manville Corporation because it
is not responsible for John-Manville’s liabilities.  
            Plaintiffs
state they will not seek to hold J-M Manufacturing liable for any products sold
before 1983.  Therefore, the parties
should be able to agree to a stipulation. 
The motion is off calendar for the parties to meet and confer on a
stipulation (which they should have done before this motion was filed.)
Defendants’ MIL No. 11
            J-M
Manufacturing moves to exclude reference to Johns-Manville Corporation’s and
Certainteed Corporation’s bankruptcies. 
Pursuant to the July 8, 2022 CMO this motion is deemed made and granted.  Plaintiffs did not show good cause to depart
from that order.  The motion is granted.
            The
moving party is to give notice.