  Case Number:  23STCV00446    Hearing Date:   October 2, 2023    Dept:  15 [TENTATIVE] ORDER RE MOTIONS IN LIMINE
Defendants’ Motion re Arnold Brody
            Defendant
HCR Manorcare, Inc. moves to exclude the testimony of Arnold Brody about
causation as lacking foundation because he did not review any materials from
this case.  (Motion at pp. 2, 6.)  However, Plaintiff’s counsel was clear that at
trial she will ask the witness to assume certain foundation facts.  (Brody Depo. at pp. 30-31.)  And Brody testified that he plans to assume
there has been an exposure above background that would produce mesothelioma.  (Id. at pp. 33, 36.)  Of course, before Plaintiff’s counsel can ask
the witness to assume those facts, Plaintiff will need to show the admissibility
of evidence establishing those facts.  Defendant
cites no evidence that an expert must review certain case material before opining
on hypotheticals.
            Defendant
argues that Plaintiff cannot remedy the lack of evidence by having Brody
testify as to hypotheticals because Plaintiff did not disclose the hypotheticals
they plan to have him use.  (Motion at p.
9.)  First, that is not correct.  Plaintiff’s counsel disclosed the
hypotheticals she plans to ask the witness at trial.  (See, e.g., Brody Depo. at pp. 30-32.)  
In Kennemur v. State
of California (1982) 133 Cal.App.3d 907, the court held that an expert must
disclose the general substance of the testimony the witness is expected to give
at trial.  (Id. at p. 919.)  So for example, if an expert denies in the
deposition having formed an opinion on a particular topic, it is improper for
the expert to testifies at trial about that topic without first informing the
other side about the new testimony.  (Dozier
v. Shapiro (2011) 199 Cal.App.4th 1509, 1519.)  If at trial, Brody is asked a hypothetical on
a topic or opinion he did not previously disclose or that he previously
testified he had no opinion about, Defendant should object at that time.  
The motion is denied
without prejudice to objections at trial.
Defendants’ Motion re Gerald Markowitz
Defendant HCR Manorcare,
Inc. moves to exclude the testimony of Gerald Markowitz because he is a
historian and lacks the expertise to opinion on science and scientific
articles.  
Plaintiffs state
Markowitz is an expert in the field of public health.  If Markowitz seeks to testify about the
history of asbestos as a known danger, that topic falls within his education,
career, and expertise in the history of public health.  The history of asbestos as a health danger is
not something within the common experience and knowledge of the jury, and an
expert presenting a summary and explanation of that history could be helpful to
the jury.  If Markowitz purports to give
scientific or medical opinions, Defendant should object at that time that
Markowitz has no foundation or expertise for giving such opinions.
Plaintiffs argue that the
work of a historian is based on reading the works of other people, which the
jury can do as well as anyone else.  (Opposition
at p. 8.)  It is not at all clear that
the jury can read all of the articles on which Markowitz relies and understand
them as well as Markowitz can explain the history of asbestos as a known
danger.  However, simply because Markowitz
read a work does not make that work admissible. 
Unless the literature he read is otherwise admissible, Markowitz cannot
tell the jury the contents and conclusions in the literature, and Defendant
should object at that time if he attempts to do so.  
Defendant argues
Markowitz does not have any knowledge about Plaintiff’s work history and
exposure and therefore cannot testify about what Defendant actually knew.  (Motion at p. 7.)  If he is asked about what Defendant actually
knew (as distinct from what was knowable) and has no evidentiary basis to
support a conclusion that Defendant actually knew something, Defendant should
object then.
Defendant argues Markowitz
relies on non-technical articles that the jury can easily understand.  However, if those articles are the type of
material experts in the field rely upon, that they are non-technical does not
preclude Markowitz from relying on them. 
Again, unless they are otherwise admissible, he cannot tell the jury the
contents of the articles.
Defendant argues
Markowitz relies on an article from the 1930s concerning asbestos textile
workers that is inapplicable here. 
(Motion at p. 10.)  If Markowitz
testifies that he relied on that article, Defendant can cross-examine him on
the differences between that article and the exposure here and argue the jury
should give the article and any opinion based on it no weight.
            The
motion is denied without prejudice to objections at trial.
Defendant’s Motion re Barry Horn
            Defendant
HCR Manorcare, Inc. moves to exclude Barry Horn’s testimony as speculative
because he did not review any industrial hygiene materials and has no
information about Plaintiff’s dose.  (Motion
at p. 1.)  Defendant’s argument that Horn’s
testimony is speculative is deemed made and denied pursuant to the July 8, 2022
CMO.  Further Defendant’s argument that
Horn cannot testify concerning causation and “substantial factor” is deemed
made and denied under the July 8, 2022 CMO.  As explained below, Defendant did not show
good cause to depart from that order.  
            Defendant
argues Horn cannot use hypotheticals in his testimony because he did not disclose
those hypotheticals in an expert report or at his deposition.  (Motion at p. 9.)  That is not correct.  For example, at page 36 of his deposition,
Horn testifies that hypothetically, if Plaintiff was exposed to free asbestos
fibers in the air as a consequence of working with an asbestos-containing
product, she breathed in those asbestos fibers and that contributed to her risk
of developing mesothelioma.  As another
example, on pages 90 through 92, he assumes that information in medical bills is
correct, and he answers a hypothetical about background exposure.  
The holding in Kennemur
v. State of California (1982) 133 Cal.App.3d 907 requires the expert to
disclose the general substance of the testimony the witness is expected to give
at trial.  (Id. at p. 919.)  So for example, if an expert denies in the
deposition having formed an opinion on a particular topic, it is improper for
the expert to testifies at trial about that topic without first informing the
other side about the new testimony.  (Dozier
v. Shapiro (2011) 199 Cal.App.4th 1509, 1519.)  If at trial, Horn is asked a hypothetical on
a topic or opinion he did not previously disclose or that he previously
testified he had no opinion about, Defendant should object at that time.  
            Defendant
further argues that any hypothetical posed to Horn will not be based on
admissible evidence.  (Motion at p.
11.)  If that occurs, Defendant should
object at that time.
            The
motion is denied without prejudice to objections at trial.
Defendant’s Motion re Marty Kanarek
            Defendant
HCR Manorcare, Inc. moves to exclude Marty Kanarek’s testimony about causation as
speculative and lacking foundation because he testified he does not know of any
epidemiological studies concerning asbestos exposure from lab equipment.  Defendant cites no law that an
epidemiological study is a necessary prerequisite to a causation opinion.
Defendant also argues Kanarek’s
opinion should be excluded because he has no information about Plaintiff’s
exposure from lab products.  That is not
accurate.  He reviewed her deposition
transcripts where she testified about the asbestos-containing products she
used.  (Kanarek Depo. at pp. 10-11, 15,
17.)  
            Part
of the problem here is that nowhere in the deposition (at least the transcript
attached by Defendant to the motion) did defense counsel ask Kanarek what
opinions he WILL testify to at trial and what the bases and evidence of those
opinions are.  The holding in Kennemur
v. State of California (1982) 133 Cal.App.3d 907 requires the expert to
disclose the general substance of the testimony the witness is expected to give
at trial.  (Id. at p. 919.)  For example, if an expert denies in the
deposition having formed an opinion on a particular topic, it is improper for
the expert to testifies at trial about that topic without first informing the
other side about the new testimony.  (Dozier
v. Shapiro (2011) 199 Cal.App.4th 1509, 1519.)  So while an expert does have an obligation to
disclose the general substance of his testimony either in his report or
deposition, the other side cannot complain about a lack of deposition testimony
concerning the details of the opinions where the examining attorney fails to
ask about those opinions and bases.  An
expert can only answer questions he is asked.
            Defendant
also argues Kanarek cannot use hypotheticals in his testimony because he did
not disclose those hypotheticals in an expert report or at his deposition.  (Motion at p. 8.)  If at trial, Kanarek is asked a hypothetical
on a topic he did not previously disclose or that he previously testified he
had no opinion about, Defendant should object at that time.  
            Defendant
further argues that any hypothetical posed to Kanarek will not be based on
admissible evidence.  (Motion at p. 9.)  If that occurs, Defendant should object at
that time.
            Defendant
argues Plaintiff has two epidemiologists on the witness list, and one should be
excluded as duplicative.  If Plaintiff asks
duplicative questions or attempts to have experts present duplicative opinions
at trial, Defendant should object at that time. 

            The
motion is denied without prejudice to objections at trial.
Defendant’s Motion Re Keith Garza
            Defendant
HCR Manorcare, Inc. seeks to exclude the testimony of Keith Garza that
Defendant’s products used by Plaintiff contained asbestos and released asbestos
fibers as speculative.  (Motion at pp.
5-6.)  
            In
fact, Garza testified that he read Plaintiff’s deposition about the products
she used from Defendant and the requirement at her school that the products be
made from asbestos.  (Garza Depo. at pp.
20-21.)  Thus his opinion that Plaintiff used
Defendant’s product and was exposed to asbestos from products is not based on
speculation.  Also, Garza explained at
his deposition the studies on which he relied to conclude those types of
products released asbestos fibers.  (See,
e.g., Garza Depo. at pp. 29-31.)
            The
motion is denied without prejudice to objections at trial.
Defendant’s Motion Re James Millette
            Defendant
HCR Manorcare, Inc. moves to exclude the opinions of James Millette that
Plaintiff used products from Defendant that contained asbestos and that those
products released asbestos fibers as speculative.  
            In
fact, Millette testified he read Plaintiff’s deposition where she testified to
using Defendant’s products that contained asbestos.  (Millette Depo. at pp. 28, 33, 35, 51.)  Throughout his deposition, Millette testified
to the bases for his opinion that Defendant’s products released asbestos
fibers.  (See, e.g., Millette Depo. at p.
41-42.)  
            The
motion is denied without prejudice to objections at trial.
Defendant’s Motion Re Allan Smith
            Defendant
HCR Manorcare, Inc. moves to exclude the testimony of Allan Smith as
speculative because he could not refer to any epidemiological study concerning
asbestos exposure from lab equipment and he has no information about Plaintiff’s
exposure from Defendant’s lab products. 
(Motion at pp. 5, 6.)  
            Defendant
does not cite any law that an expert cannot testify about causation without an
epidemiological study.  Further, it is
not accurate to say Smith has no information about Plaintiff’s exposure from Defendant’s
lab products.  He reviewed her deposition
transcripts.  (Smith Depo. pp. 13-14, 15-16.)  She testified at her deposition about the
asbestos-containing products she used, including from Defendant.  
Also, Smith stated he is
not going to be testifying about any particular brand of product she used or
that lab equipment might contain asbestos. 
(Smith Depo. at pp. 25, 27.)  In
effect, Defendant is moving to exclude testimony that Smith clearly stated he
does not plan to give at trial.  If at
trial, Smith does testify about particular brands or that particular lab
equipment contained asbestos, Defendant should object then.
            Defendant
argues Smith cannot use hypotheticals in his testimony because he did not disclose
those hypotheticals in an expert report or at his deposition.  (Motion at p. 7.)  If at trial, Smith is asked a hypothetical on
a topic he did not previously disclose or that he previously testified he had
no opinion about, Defendant should object at that time.  
            Defendant
argues Plaintiff has two epidemiologists on the witness list, and one should be
excluded as duplicative.  If Plaintiff asks
duplicative questions or attempts to have experts present duplicative opinions
at trial, Defendant should object at that time. 

            The
motion is denied.  
            The
moving party is to give notice.
 