 Case Number:  23TRCV01367    Hearing Date:   May 1, 2024    Dept:  M 
LOS ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT – SOUTHWEST DISTRICT
 




 
Honorable Gary Y. Tanaka                                                                                         Wednesday, May 1, 2024
Department M                                                                                                                             Calendar No. 3  



 
 
PROCEEDINGS
 
Janell
Hendricksen, et al. v. Gerardo Castillo, et al.   
23TRCV00810

1.     
Janell
Hendricksen, et al.’s Motion for Leave to File First Amended Complaint  
2.     
Conor Flynn’s Application
to Appear as Counsel Pro Hac Vice for Plaintiffs Janell Hendricksen, et al.
3.     
David William
Terry’s Application to Appear as Counsel Pro Hac Vice for Plaintiffs Janell
Hendricksen, et al. 
 
 
TENTATIVE RULING

Janell Hendricksen, et al.’s Motion for Leave to File
First Amended Complaint is granted.  
 
Conor Flynn and David William Terry’s Applications to
Appear as Counsel Pro Hac Vice for Plaintiffs Janell Hendricksen, et al. are
denied without prejudice. 
 
Background
 
Plaintiffs’ Complaint was filed on March 20, 2023.
Plaintiffs allege the following facts. Plaintiffs’
decedent, Steven Michael Hendrickson, died in a motor vehicle accident. The
accident was caused by a defective 2019 Tesla Model 3 vehicle which he was
operating with autopilot, as well as the negligence of co-Defendants operators
of the other vehicle.  
 
Motion for Leave to Amend 
 
The court may, in furtherance of justice, and on such
terms as may be proper, allow a party to amend any pleading.  Code Civ. Proc., §§ 473 & 576.  Judicial policy favors resolution of all
disputed matters between the parties and, therefore, leave to amend is
generally liberally granted.  Ordinarily,
the court will not consider the validity of the proposed amended pleading in
ruling on a motion for leave since grounds for a demurrer or motion to strike
are premature.  However, the court does
have discretion to deny leave to amend where a proposed amendment fails to
state a valid cause of action as a matter of law and the defect cannot be cured
by further amendment.   Cal. Casualty General Ins. Co. v. Superior
Court (1985) 173 Cal.App.3d 274, 281. 
 
The application for leave to amend should be made as
soon as the need to amend is discovered. 
The closer the trial date, the stronger the showing required for leave
to amend.  If the party seeking the
amendment has been dilatory, and the delay has prejudiced the opposing party,
the court has the discretion to deny leave to amend.  Hirsa
v. Superior Court (1981) 118 Cal.App.3d 486, 490.  Prejudice exists where the amendment would
require delaying the trial, resulting in loss of critical evidence, or added costs
of preparation such as an increased burden of discovery.  Magpali
v. Farmers Group, Inc. (1996) 48 Cal.App.4th 471, 486-488. 
 
Plaintiffs move for leave to amend to file a First
Amended Complaint to add additional causes of action and allegations against
Tesla Motors, Inc.  
 
Cal. Rules of Court, Rule 3.1324(a) states: “A motion
to amend a pleading before trial must:
(1) Include a copy of the proposed amendment or
amended pleading, which must be serially numbered to differentiate it from
previous pleadings or amendments;
(2) State what allegations in the previous pleading
are proposed to be deleted, if any, and where, by page, paragraph, and line
number, the deleted allegations are located; and
(3) State what allegations are proposed to be added to
the previous pleading, if any, and where, by page, paragraph, and line number,
the additional allegations are located.” Id. (emphasis added).
 
Plaintiffs adequately complied with Rule 3.1324(a). Plaintiffs
provided a “red-lined” version of the First Amended Complaint which details the
additions and changes made. 
 
Cal. Rules of Court, Rule 3.1324(b) requires that the
moving party must submit a separate declaration specifying:
“(1) The effect of the amendment;
(2) Why the amendment is necessary and proper;
(3) When the facts giving rise to the amended
allegations were discovered; and
(4) The reasons why the request for amendment was not
made earlier.”
 
Plaintiffs provided a declaration meeting elements (1)
to (4) above. (Decl., Steven E. Nauman, ¶¶ 2-4). 
 
Therefore, Plaintiffs’ Motion for Leave to Amend
Complaint is granted. 
 
Plaintiffs are ordered to file and serve the First
Amended Complaint within three days of this date. 
 
Applications to Appear Pro Hac Vice
 
Cal. Rules of Court, Rule 9.40 states, in relevant
part:
“(d) The application must state:
(1) The applicant's residence and office address;
(2) The courts to which the applicant has been
admitted to practice and the dates of admission;
(3) That the applicant is a licensee in good standing
in those courts;
(4) That the applicant is not currently suspended or
disbarred in any court;
(5) The title of each court and cause in which the
applicant has filed an application to appear as counsel pro hac vice in this
state in the preceding two years, the date of each application, and whether or
not it was granted; and
(6) The name, address, and telephone number of the
active licensee of the State Bar of California who is attorney of record.
(e) An applicant for permission to appear as counsel
pro hac vice under this rule must pay a reasonable fee not exceeding $50 to the
State Bar of California with the copy of the application and the notice of
hearing that is served on the State Bar.”
 
Applicants have failed to establish that they have
paid the $50 fee to the State Bar and that the State Bar has been served with
the applications and the notice of hearing. Therefore, the applications are
denied without prejudice.
 
Plaintiffs are ordered to give notice of this ruling. 