  Case Number:  19TRCV00810    Hearing Date:   May 1, 2024    Dept:  M LOS ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT –
SOUTHWEST DISTRICT
 
 
Honorable Gary Y. Tanaka                                                                                         Wednesday, May 1, 2024
Department M                                                                                                                           Calendar No. 12
 
PROCEEDINGS
 
            Bo-D-Bro, Inc. v. Atkinson and Associates, et al. 
            19TRCV00810
1.      Atkinson
and Associates’ Motion for Summary Adjudication as to SDG Enterprises dba
Century West Plumbing    
2.      Atkinson
and Associates’ Motion for Summary Adjudication as to Trencore Plastering, Inc.

3.      Atkinson
and Associates’ Motion for Summary Adjudication as to RD Construction, Inc. 
 
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 
            Atkinson
and Associates’ Motions for Summary Adjudication are denied. 
       
            Background
 
            Plaintiff
filed the Complaint on September 3, 2019. Plaintiff alleges the following
facts. This matter involves contractual and construction defect related claims
arising from a multi-family development project located at or about 8740 La
Tijera Blvd. (“Project”) owned by 8740 La Tijera Blvd. LA Owner, LLC (“8740 La
Tijera” or “La Tijera”). Plaintiff was a sub-contractor on the project and
filed its complaint for alleged failure to pay for labor and services rendered.
Several Cross-Complaints have also been filed in this action including the
relevant Third Amended Cross-Complaint filed by Atkinson and Associates (“AAA”
or “Atkinson”) in which it named SDG Enterprises dba Century West Plumbing (“SDG”
or “CWP”), Trencore Platering, Inc. (“Trencore”), and RD Construction, Inc.
(“RD”) as Cross-Defendants. 
 
            Request
for Judicial Notice
 
            Atkinson’s
Requests for Judicial Notice are granted pursuant to Evidence Code section
452(d).
 
            Motion
for Summary Adjudication
 
            The
purpose of a motion for summary judgment or summary adjudication “is to provide
courts with a mechanism to cut through the parties’ pleadings in order to
determine whether, despite their allegations, trial is in fact necessary to
resolve their dispute.”  (Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001)
25 Cal.4th 826, 843.)  “Code of Civil
Procedure section 437c, subdivision (c), requires the trial judge to grant
summary judgment if all the evidence submitted, and ‘all inferences reasonably
deducible from the evidence’ and uncontradicted by other inferences or
evidence, show that there is no triable issue as to any material fact and that
the moving party is entitled to judgment as a matter of law.”  (Adler
v. Manor Healthcare Corp. (1992) 7 Cal. App. 4th 1110, 1119.)
 
            “On a
motion for summary judgment, the initial burden is always on the moving party
to make a prima facie showing that there are no triable issues of material
fact.”  (Scalf v. D. B. Log Homes, Inc. (2005) 128 Cal. App. 4th 1510,
1519.)  A defendant moving for summary
judgment or summary adjudication “has met his or her burden of showing that a
cause of action has no merit if the party has shown that one or more elements
of the cause of action . . . cannot be established, or that there is a complete
defense to the cause of action.”  CCP §
437c(p)(2).  “Once the defendant . . .
has met that burden, the burden shifts to the plaintiff . . . to show that a
triable issue of one or more material facts exists as to the cause of action or
a defense thereto.” CCP § 437c(p)(2). 
“If the plaintiff cannot do so, summary judgment should be
granted.”  Avivi v. Centro Medico Urgente Medical Center (2008) 159 Cal. App.
4th 463, 467.
 
            “A
plaintiff or cross-complainant has met his or her burden of showing that there
is no defense to a cause of action if that party has proved each element of the
cause of action entitling the party to judgment on the cause of action. Once
the plaintiff or cross-complainant has met that burden, the burden shifts to
the defendant or cross-defendant to show that a triable issue of one or more
material facts exists as to the cause of action or a defense thereto.” Code
Civ. Proc., § 437c(p)(1).
 
            “When
deciding whether to grant summary judgment, the court must consider all of the
evidence set forth in the papers (except evidence to which the court has
sustained an objection), as well as all reasonable inferences that may be drawn
from that evidence, in the light most favorable to the party opposing summary
judgment.”  (Avivi, 159 Cal.App.4th at 467; CCP § 437c(c).)
 
            Atkinson
moves for summary adjudication as to SDG Enterprises dba Century West Plumbing
(“CWP” or “SDG”) as follows: “1. AAA is entitled to summary adjudication in its
favor and against CWP, finding that CWP has a duty to provide a defense to AAA
against the claims asserted in the Cross-Complaint filed by 8740 La Tijera
Blvd. LA Owner, LLC (“8740 La Tijera”), pursuant to the October 13, 2016
Subcontract Agreement entered into between AAA and CWP; and 2. CWP’s duty to
defend AAA arose on January 23, 2020, when AAA tendered its defense to CWP.”
(Notice of Motion, page 2, lines 8-13.)
 
            Atkinson
moves for summary adjudication as to Trencore Plastering, Inc. (“Trencore”) as
follows: “1. AAA is entitled to summary adjudication in its favor and against
TRENCORE, finding that TRENCORE has a duty to provide a defense to AAA against
the claims asserted in the Cross-Complaint filed by 8740 La Tijera Blvd. LA
Owner, LLC (“8740 La Tijera”), pursuant to the August 3, 2017 Subcontract
Agreement entered into between AAA and TRENCORE; and 2. TRENCORE’s duty to
defend AAA arose on January 23, 2020, when AAA tendered its defense to
TRENCORE.” (Notice of Motion, page 2, lines 8-13.)
 
            Atkinson
moves for summary adjudication as to RD Construction (“RD”) as follows: “1. AAA
is entitled to summary adjudication in its favor and against RD CONSTRUCTION,
finding that RD CONSTRUCTION has a duty to provide a defense to AAA against the
claims asserted in the Cross-Complaint filed by 8740 La Tijera Blvd. LA Owner,
LLC (“8740 La Tijera”), pursuant to the October 13, 2016 Subcontract Agreement
entered into between AAA and RD CONSTRUCTION; and 2. RD CONSTRUCTION’s duty to
defend AAA arose on January 23, 2020, when AAA tendered its defense to RD
CONSTRUCTION.” (Notice of Motion, page 2, lines 8-14.)
 
            Duty to Defend
 
            “The
existence and scope of duty are legal questions for the court.”  Merrill v. Navegar, Inc. (2001) 26
Cal.4th 465, 477.  “If any party moves
for summary judgment or adjudication (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c) with respect to
the duty to defend against litigation still in progress, the court may proceed
as it deems expedient.  For example, the
court may resolve legal issues then ripe for adjudication, such as whether any
of the contracts at issue include a duty to defend, and, if so, whether the
underlying suit or proceeding as to which a defense is sought falls within the
scope of any of the parties’ contractual duty to defend.”  Crawford v. Weather Shield Mfg. Inc.
(2008) 44 Cal.4th 541, 565, fn. 12. 
 
            Civ.
Code, § 2778 states as follows: 
            “In
the interpretation of a contract of indemnity, the following rules are to be
applied, unless a contrary intention appears:
1. Upon an indemnity against liability, expressly, or
in other equivalent terms, the person indemnified is entitled to recover upon
becoming liable;
2. Upon an indemnity against claims, or demands, or
damages, or costs, expressly, or in other equivalent terms, the person
indemnified is not entitled to recover without payment thereof;
3. An indemnity against claims, or demands, or
liability, expressly, or in other equivalent terms, embraces the costs of
defense against such claims, demands, or liability incurred in good faith, and
in the exercise of a reasonable discretion;
4. The person indemnifying is bound, on request of the
person indemnified, to defend actions or proceedings brought against the latter
in respect to the matters embraced by the indemnity, but the person indemnified
has the right to conduct such defenses, if he chooses to do so;
5. If, after request, the person indemnifying neglects
to defend the person indemnified, a recovery against the latter suffered by him
in good faith, is conclusive in his favor against the former;
6. If the person indemnifying, whether he is a
principal or a surety in the agreement, has not reasonable notice of the action
or proceeding against the person indemnified, or is not allowed to control its
defense, judgment against the latter is only presumptive evidence against the
former;
7. A stipulation that a judgment against the person
indemnified shall be conclusive upon the person indemnifying, is inapplicable
if he had a good defense upon the merits, which by want of ordinary care he
failed to establish in the action.”
 
            If
there is no contrary intention that is provided in the agreement, the
indemnification provision would encompass a duty to defend. By specifying a
duty to defend, Civil Code § 2778(4) places in every indemnity
contract, unless the agreement provides otherwise, a duty to assume the
indemnitee’s defense, if tendered, against all claims embraced by the
indemnity. Crawford v. Weather Shield Mfg. Inc. (2008) 44 Cal.4th 541,
557. In UDC-Universal Dev., LP. v. CH2M Hill (2010) 181 Cal.App.4th 10,
17, the Court found that, under the indemnity provision, a sub-contractor owed
a duty to defend the developer from the time the defense was tendered, even
though the Complaint did not specifically allege negligence by the
sub-contractor, and even though the jury found the sub-contractor not
negligent. Id.  
 
            In
both Crawford v. Weather Shield Mfg.,
Inc. (2008) 44 Cal.4th 541 and UDC-Universal
Development v, CH2M Hill, Inc. (2010) 181 Cal.App.4th 10, the California
Supreme Court and an appellate Court interpreting the California Supreme Court
reiterated that the duty to defend arises immediately upon tender by the
indemnitee, and “before the litigation to be defended has determined whether
indemnity is actually owed. This duty, as described in the statute, therefore
cannot depend on the outcome of that litigation.” Crawford v. Weather Shield Mfg., Inc. (2008) 44 Cal.4th 541,
558.  In UDC, the Court stated that the duty to defend cannot be premised
upon a finding of negligence because “requiring such a determination would
render meaningless the defense obligation and contravene Civil Code section
2778 and the Supreme Court's admonition that a duty to defend arises out of an
indemnity obligation as soon as the litigation commences and regardless of
whether the indemnitor is ultimately found negligent.”  Id. at 21-22.   
 
            AAA identifies
sections 26 and 27 of the parties’ alleged agreement which sets forth the
indemnification and insurance provisions of the sub-contract. (AAA’s Separate
Statements of Facts and Supporting Evidence No. 3.)  Section 27.1 states: “SUBCONTRACTOR shall
indemnify CONTRACTOR and OWNER against all claims, demands, and liability of
every nature arising from injury to persons or property resulting from
SUBCONTRACTOR’s performance of this Agreement excepting only those claims
arising from the sole and exclusive negligence of the CONTRACTOR. Such
indemnification shall extend to all claims, demands, and liability arising from
the activities of sub- SUBCONTRACTORs and SUBCONTRACTOR’s suppliers, while
engaged in the performance of the work to be done under this Agreement. This
indemnification agreement applies to claims, demands, and liability for injury
contributed to by the negligence or other misconduct of OWNER or CONTRACTOR, as
long as the injury is caused in part by the negligence or misconduct of
SUBCONTRACTOR, or by its SUBCONTRACTORs, employees, agents or suppliers.” (Id.)
 La Tijera has alleged violations against
AAA that directly relate to the work performed by opposing cross-defendants. (AAA
Separate Statements of Facts and Supporting Evidence Nos. 2-6). Cross-Defendants
have refused to defend AAA. (Id. at 7.)
            
            The
Court finds that AAA has not met its initial burden of showing that CWP,
Trencore, and RD Construction owed a duty to defend AAA. Therefore, the burden
does not shift to opposing Cross-Defendants to show the existence of a triable
issue of material fact. CCP § 437c(p)(1). 
 
            Pursuant
to the plain language of Section 27.1, in order to establish a duty to defend, the
claim must result from the subcontractors’ performance, and, in addition, the
claim must arise from, in part, on the sub-contractors’ negligence.  AAA submitted no evidence that the claims
arose from the subcontractors’ performance and negligence. Inferences
from allegations of the Cross-Complaint of La Tijera do not constitute
competent evidence. In fact, the La Tijera Cross-Complaint only specifically
refers to the wrongdoing of the contractor and not any sub-contractors. Nothing
in the separate statement of facts refers specifically to the sub-contractors’ negligence.

 
            With
the instant motions, contrary to the prior motions for summary adjudication
which were denied on September 18, 2023, AAA did attempt to provide some
reference to the sub-contractors’ scope of work which implicates some of the
allegations of the La Tijera Cross-Complaint. However, still missing from the
separate statement of facts are any facts with supporting evidence stating that
the claims arose, at least, in part from the negligence of the opposing
parties. The conclusory declaration of George Atkinson fails to provide competent
evidence to support this contention as he simply reiterates the allegations of
the La Tijera First Amended Cross-Complaint.
 
            Also,
the indemnity provision, on its face, states that it would not apply to claims
arising from AAA’s sole negligence or willful misconduct. AAA submitted no
facts supported with competent evidence to show that the claims do not arise
from its sole negligence or willful misconduct. 
 
 
            Thus,
for the foregoing reasons, AAA’s motions for summary adjudication are denied. 
 
            Cross-Defendants
are ordered to give notice of this ruling.