 Case Number:  23STCV07321    Hearing Date:   January 19, 2024    Dept:  32 


 
BRIAN WHITAKER,
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
 
LA BREA 1292 LLC,  
                        Defendant.
  


 
  Case No.:  23STCV07321
  Hearing Date:  January 19, 2024
 
     [TENTATIVE]
  order RE:
defendant’s motion to set aside default 




 


 



BACKGROUND
            On April 3, 2023, Plaintiff Brian
Whitaker filed this action for damages and injunctive relief against Defendant
La Brea 1292 LLC. The complaint alleges violations of the Unruh Act and
Disabled Persons Act. 
            Defendant did not answer the
complaint, and on July 29, 2023, the Court entered default judgment for
Plaintiff in the amount of $8,890.53. 
            On December 8, 2023, Defendant filed
the instant motion to set aside the default. Plaintiff has not filed an
opposition.  
LEGAL STANDARD
“The court may, upon any terms as may be
just, relieve a party or his or her legal representative from a judgment,
dismissal, order, or other proceeding taken against him or her through his or
her mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or excusable neglect.” (Code Civ. Proc., §
473(b).) Because the law favors resolution on the merits, doubts are resolved
in favor of the party requesting relief, and only “slight evidence” is needed
to justify relief. (Caldwell v. Methodist Hospital (1994) 24 Cal.App.4th
1521, 1524.) “[C]ourts have often granted relief pursuant to the discretionary
relief provision of section 473 if no prejudice to the opposing party will
ensue.” (Comunidad en Accion v. Los Angeles City Council (2013) 219
Cal.App.4th 1116, 1132-1133.) Section 473(b) also provides for mandatory relief
in instances of attorney mistake, “unless the court finds that the default or
dismissal was not in fact caused by the attorney’s mistake, inadvertence,
surprise, or neglect.” Additionally, Section 473(d) authorizes a court to “set
aside any void judgment or order.” 
DISCUSSION
I.
Judgment Unsupported by Evidence
            Defendant’s primary argument is that
the judgment is void as being unsupported by evidence. Specifically, Defendant
contends that the evidence presented in Plaintiff’s declaration show that no
ADA violation occurred. Defendant points out that the ADA requirements apply to
“elements” of a building, and the table shown in Plaintiff’s photograph is not
an “element” attached to a building. (Mtn. 7:7-8:6.) Additionally, Defendant
points out that the ADA inspector never actually measured the toe clearance of the
table, thereby never establishing that the table violated ADA standards for toe
clearance. (Mtn. 8:7-17.) Plaintiff does not oppose the motion and therefore presents
no rebuttal argument.  
II.
Improper Service of Process
“A summons may be served by personal
delivery of a copy of the summons and of the complaint to the person to be
served.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 415.10.) Alternatively, a summons may be served by
leaving a copy of the summons and complaint at the person’s dwelling house,
usual place of abode, usual place of business, or usual mailing address, in the
presence of a competent member of the household or a person apparently in
charge, at least 18 years of age, who shall be informed of the contents
thereof, and by thereafter mailing a copy of the summons and complaint to the
same location. (Id., § 415.20.) 
Defendant’s agent for service of process
is Theodoro Vasquez-Solis, whose address is 7665 Firestone Blvd., Downey.
(Vargas Decl. ¶ 4.) The proof of service that Plaintiff filed on April 27,
2023, claims substitute service at the Downey location on an individual named
Carolina Montes, identified as the “person in charge.” Ms. Montes was a cashier
and was not in charge of the restaurant at the time of service. (Vargas Decl.
¶¶ 5-6.) Defendant argues that service was deficient because there is no evidence
of the process server’s diligent attempt to personally serve Mr. Vasquez-Solis
or any evidence supporting the process server’s perception of Ms. Montes as a
person in charge. Plaintiff does not oppose the motion and therefore presents
no rebuttal argument. 
III.
Mistake or Excusable Neglect
            Lastly, Defendant moves to set aside
the default on the grounds of attorney mistake. Specifically, at the time
defense counsel received notice of this lawsuit from Defendant, the law firm
was in the midst of a major turnover. (Sheik Decl. ¶¶ 4-5.) Defense counsel
therefore inadvertently overlooked the complaint. (Ibid.) Defense
counsel admits to the mistake and avers that Defendant did not contribute to
the failure to respond to the lawsuit. (Id., ¶¶ 6-7.) This independently
warrants relief under Section 473(b). Plaintiff does not oppose the motion and therefore
presents no rebuttal argument. 
CONCLUSION
            Defendant’s motion to set aside
default is GRANTED. Answer shall be filed within 10 days.  
 