 Case Number:  BC522931    Hearing Date:   December 10, 2024    Dept:  17 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
 
DEPARTMENT
17
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 



NATIONAL COLLEGIATE SUDENT LOAN TRUST 
 
        
  vs.
 
MARIA
  TORABZADEH, et al. 
 


 Case
  No.:  BC522931   
 
 
 
 Hearing Date: December 10, 2024



 
 
Defendant’s
motion to vacate the renewal of judgment is DENIED.
 
            On
9/27/2013, Plaintiff National Collegiate Student Loan Trust (Plaintiff) filed
suit against Maria Torabzadeh and Ian Sutton (collectively, Defendants),
alleging: (1) breach of contract; and (2) common counts. 
 
            On
8/20/2014, Plaintiff obtained a judgment against Defendant. 
 
            On
7/3/2024, Plaintiff’s application for a renewal of judgment was granted. 
 
            Now,
in propria persona Defendant Maria Torabzadeh (Defendant) moves to set
aside the renewal of judgment. 
 
Discussion 
 
            Defendant
argues that the 7/3/2024 order renewing judgment must be set aside because the
Bankruptcy Court discharged Defendant’s debts on 1/21/2020. (Motion, Exh. A. 
 
CCP section
683.170 states: 
 
(a) The
renewal of a judgment pursuant to this article may be vacated on any ground
that would be a defense to an action on the judgment, including the ground that
the amount of the renewed judgment as entered pursuant to this article is
incorrect, and shall be vacated if the application for renewal was filed within
five years from the time the judgment was previously renewed under this
article. 
 
(b) Not later
than 60 days after service of the notice of renewal pursuant to Section
683.160, the judgment debtor may apply by noticed motion under this section for
an order of the court vacating the renewal of the judgment. The notice of
motion shall be served on the judgment creditor. Service shall be made
personally or by mail.
 
(c) Upon the
hearing of the motion, the renewal may be ordered vacated upon any ground
provided in subdivision (a), and another and different renewal may be -entered,
including, but not limited to, the renewal of the judgment in a different
amount if the decision of the court is that the judgment creditor is entitled
to renewal in a different amount.
 
However, in
opposition, Plaintiff clarified that Defendant only received a standard
discharge of her debts. Pursuant to Federal law, a bankruptcy discharge under
11 U.S.C. §727 does not discharge an individual debtor from all debts,
including educational benefits loans, or any other educational loan that is a
qualified education loan, unless the individual shows that excepting such debt
would impose an undue hardship on the debtor or the debtor’s dependents.
 
Indeed,
Plaintiff submitted evidence to show that while Defendant submitted the first
page of the Chapter 7 Discharge, showing that her debts were discharged, she
omitted the second page of the discharge which further explained which debts
were not included in the discharge. Listed as an example of debts that are not
discharged are “debts for most student loans.” (Aguirre Decl., Exh. C.) 
 
Given that
Defendant fails to make a showing that she obtained a hardship discharge on the
underlying student loan, the Court finds an insufficient basis to conclude that
the underlying student loan at issue was discharged as part of the 1/21/2020
Order. 
 
Defendant has
not provided any other legal basis for vacating the renewal of judgment.
 
            Based
on the foregoing, Defendant’s motion to vacate the renewal of judgment is
denied. 
 
 
It is so ordered. 
 
Dated:  December   
, 2024
                                                                                                                                                           
   Hon. Jon R.
Takasugi
   Judge of the
Superior Court
 
 
 
Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must
send an email to the court at smcdept17@lacourt.org
by 4 p.m. the day prior as directed by the instructions provided on the court
website at www.lacourt.org.  If a party submits
on the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must
identify the party submitting on the tentative. 
If all parties to a motion submit, the court will adopt this
tentative as the final order.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  For more information, please contact the court clerk at (213)
633-0517.  
 