 Case Number:  23STCV19269    Hearing Date:   May 22, 2024    Dept:  27 Hon. Lee S. Arian, Dept 27 
 
MOTION FOR LEAVE TO INTERVENE
Hearing Date: 5/22/24¿ 
CASE NO./NAME: 23STCV19629 BEAU MICHAEL OLIVER
vs FSP - SOUTH FLOWER STREET
Moving Party: Sentry Casualty
Company
Responding Party: Unopposed
Notice: Sufficient¿ 
Ruling: MOTION FOR LEAVE TO INTERVENE IS GRANTED
 
Legal Standard


Code Civ. Proc. §387(b) provides that, “An intervention takes
place when a nonparty, deemed an intervenor, becomes a party to an action or
proceeding between other persons by… [j]oining a plaintiff in claiming what is
sought by the complaint[,] [u]niting with a defendant in resisting the claims
of a plaintiff[,] [or] [d]emanding anything adverse to both a plaintiff and a
defendant.”
 
 “A nonparty shall petition the court for leave to intervene
by noticed motion or ex parte application [which] shall include a copy of the
proposed … answer in intervention . . . and set forth the grounds upon which
intervention rests.” (C.C.P. §387(c).)
 
In the case of intervention as a right, “[t]he court shall, upon
timely application, permit a nonparty to intervene in the action or proceeding
if… [either] [a] provision of law confers an unconditional right to
intervene[,] [or] [t]he person seeking intervention claims an interest
relating to the property or transaction that is the subject of the action and
that person is so situated that the disposition of the action may impair or
impede that person’s ability to protect that interest, unless that person’s
interest is adequately represented by one or more of the existing parties.” (C.C.P.
§387(d)(1)(A)-(B) (emphasis added).)
 
In the case of permissive intervention, “[t]he court may, upon
timely application, permit a nonparty to intervene in the action or proceeding
if the person has an interest in the matter in litigation, or in the success of
either of the parties, or an interest against both.” (C.C.P. §387(d)(2).)
 
Discussion
 
On June 29,
2021, Plaintiff filed the present trip and fall case. At the time of the
incident, Plaintiff was acting within the course and scope of employment for
Royal Bank of Canada, which had workers' compensation insurance coverage in
favor of Plaintiff. As a result of the incident, Petitioner Sentry Casualty
Company has been obligated to pay and continues to pay workers' compensation
benefits to and on behalf of Plaintiff. Sentry now moves the court to intervene
in the present case.
 
The Court finds
that Sentry has satisfied the filing requirements of Code of Civil Procedure
section 387, subdivision (c) by filing a noticed motion and declaration setting
forth the grounds for intervention, as well as a copy of its proposed complaint
in intervention. Sentry seeks to intervene in the action under Labor Code
sections 3852 and 3853 as an insurer of Plaintiff’s employer with a right of
subrogation. Sentry notes that pursuant to Plaintiff’s workers’ compensation
insurance policy, Sentry has been obligated to pay medical expenses and other
workers’ compensation benefits to Plaintiff following the injuries alleged in
Plaintiff’s complaint. Thus, Sentry argues that it has “acquired a claim
against Defendants for reimbursement and related relief under section 3852 of
the California Labor Code.”
 
The Court finds
that Sentry is entitled to intervene under Code of Civil Procedure section 387.
First, the Court finds that Sentry’s motion is timely because Labor Code
section 3853 allows a nonparty to join as a party plaintiff “at any time before
trial on the facts.” Second, the Court finds that Labor Code sections 3852 and
3853 grant Sentry the right to intervene under Code of Civil Procedure section
387 because Sentry has a right of subrogation as the insurer of Plaintiff’s
employer and has incurred an obligation to continue paying workers’
compensation benefits to Plaintiff. (Lab. Code § 3852; see also Burum, 30
Cal.2d at 580-581.) Pursuant to Labor Code section 3852, Sentry may file a
complaint-in-intervention to recover for the “total amount of compensation”
paid to Plaintiff and related damages. Accordingly, the Court finds that Sentry
has sufficiently claimed an interest relating to the disposition of this action
for purposes of intervention. Thus the present motion is GRANTED.
 
PLEASE TAKE NOTICE:
 
If a party
intends to submit on this tentative ruling, the party
must send an email to the court at sscdept27@lacourt.org with the
Subject line “SUBMIT” followed by the case number.  The body of
the email must include the hearing date and time, counsel’s contact
information, and the identity of the party submitting.
 
Unless all parties
submit by email to this tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear
remotely (encouraged) or in person for oral argument.  You should
assume that others may appear at the hearing to argue.
 
If the
parties neither submit nor appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off
calendar or adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  After the
Court has issued a tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of
the subject motion without leave.
 