 Case Number:  21STCV31561    Hearing Date:   May 22, 2024    Dept:  27 Hon. Lee S. Arian, Dept 27 
 
MOTION FOR LEAVE TO CONDUCT A SECOND IME AND
REQUESTS FOR SANCTIONS
Hearing Date: 5/22/24¿ 
CASE NO./NAME: 21STCV31561 KEVIN JOSHUA ROGOFF
vs LOS ANGELES COUNTY
METROPOLITAN TRANSPORTATION AUTHORITY
Moving Party: Defendant LOS ANGELES COUNTY METROPOLITAN TRANSPORTATION
AUTHORITY
Responding Party: Plaintiff¿ 
Notice: Sufficient¿ 
Ruling: MOTION FOR LEAVE TO CONDUCT A SECOND
IME AND REQUEST FOR SANCTIONS ARE DENIED
 
Legal Standard 
 
Except for defense physicals in personal injury cases (in which
one examination is permitted as a matter of course) and exams arranged by
stipulation, a court order is required for a physical or mental examination.
Such order may be made only after notice and hearing, and for “good cause
shown.” (CCP §2032.320(a).) 
The examination will be limited to whatever condition is “in
controversy” in the action. (CCP §2032.020(a).) This means the examination must
be directly related to the specific injury or condition that is the subject of
the litigation. Roberts v. Superior Court (1973) 9 Cal.3d 330, 337. Often, a
party's pleadings put his or her mental or physical condition in controversy
... as when a plaintiff claims continuing mental or physical injury resulting
from defendant's acts: “A party who chooses to allege that he has mental and
emotional difficulties can hardly deny his mental state is in controversy.” See
Vinson v. Superior Court (1987) 43 Cal.3d 833, 837, wherein the
plaintiff claimed ongoing emotional distress from sexual harassment by former
employer. Discovery responses can also frame the issues regarding the injuries
and damages alleged.
 
Where the plaintiff's injuries are complex, several exams may be
necessary by specialists in different fields. There is no limit on the number
of physical or mental exams that may be ordered on a showing of good cause. The
good cause requirement checks any potential harassment of the plaintiff. See Shapira
v. Superior Court (1990) 224 Cal.App.3d 1249, 1255. 
 
The burden is on the moving party to show (by declarations or
other evidence) that the examinee's condition is “in controversy” in the
action. The moving party must also establish good cause for the examination(s)
sought. A court order for physical or mental examination must be based on a
showing of “good cause” (CCP § 2032.320(a)): (1) relevancy to the subject
matter; and (2) specific facts justifying discovery: i.e., allegations showing
the need for the information sought and lack of means for obtaining it
elsewhere. (Vinson v. Superior Court (1987) 43 Cal.3d 833, 840.) The
purpose is to protect an examinee's privacy by preventing annoying “fishing
expeditions” - i.e., one party may not compel
another to undergo psychiatric testing “solely on the basis of speculation that
something of interest may surface.” (Id.)
 
The notice of motion must state the time, place, identity and
specialty of the examiner, and the “manner, conditions, scope and nature of the
examination.” (CCP § 2032.310(b).) The requirement for specification of the
“manner, conditions, scope and nature of the examination” apparently requires
disclosure of whatever diagnostic tests and procedures will be utilized
(x-rays, blood and urine samples, etc.). (See CCP § 2032.220(c).) The notice of
motion must be accompanied by a separate document setting forth the discovery
request, the Declarations must state facts showing that “a reasonable and good
faith attempt” to arrange the examination by stipulation was unsuccessful. (CCP
§ 2032.310(b).)
 
Discussion
 
In February 2024, Defendant conducted its first IME on
Plaintiff. Defendant claims that Plaintiff did not allow his right hip to be examined
in the IME. Defendant now moves the Court for leave to conduct a second IME.
Defendant’s motion is procedurally defective. First, the
notice of motion does not specify the “manner, conditions, scope, and nature of
the examination.” It does not state the specific diagnostic test that will be
performed. Furthermore, the motion is not accompanied by a separate statement. Without
specifying what diagnostic test(s) will be performed and the body part(s) the
test(s) will be performed on, the Court lacks sufficient detail to assess if
the test is relevant to the body parts in controversy and would not, for
example, duplicate the examination of the back or spine area already performed
in the prior IME. Thus, the present motion is denied without prejudice because
the moving party failed to meet its burden in showing good cause. Consequently,
Defendant’s request for sanction is likewise denied.
Having said that, the Court examined the first IME report
and sees that the Plaintiff did not allow his right hip to be examined during
the IME.  In situations where a body part
in controversy has not been examined as a result of a party’s refusal, the
Court would be inclined to grant leave for an examination related to that body
part.  The parties are ordered to meet
and confer, using the Court’s inclination as guidance to attempt to reach an
informal resolution for a second IME on the right hip prior to the re-filing of
this motion.
PLEASE TAKE NOTICE:
 
If a party
intends to submit on this tentative ruling, the party
must send an email to the court at sscdept27@lacourt.org with the
Subject line “SUBMIT” followed by the case number.  The body of
the email must include the hearing date and time, counsel’s contact
information, and the identity of the party submitting.
 
Unless all parties
submit by email to this tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear
remotely (encouraged) or in person for oral argument.  You should
assume that others may appear at the hearing to argue.
 
If the
parties neither submit nor appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off
calendar or adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  After the
Court has issued a tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of
the subject motion without leave.