 Case Number:  23PSCV03948    Hearing Date:   September 11, 2024    Dept:  H The
hearing on Defendant/Cross-Complainant/Cross-Defendant B.R. Building Resources
Company’s Demurrer to the Cross-Complaint Filed by SA Hospital Acquisition
Group, LLC, SA Hospital Real Estate Holdings LLC, SA Hospital Real Estate
Holdings Jefferson, LLC, Jeffrey Ahlholm, and Lawrence Feigen is CONTINUED to
November 15, 2023, at 8:30 a.m.
In
this lawsuit, Plaintiff Trane U.S. Inc. (“Trane”) alleges that Defendants B.R.
Building Resources Company (B.R. Resources”) and B.R. & Co., Inc. (“B.R.
Co.”) (collectively, “Defendants”) failed to make payments under several
written equipment leases, wherein Trane agreed to provide equipment to
Defendants on credit in exchange for Defendants’ promise to make monthly lease
payments.
In
a related lawsuit that is also pending before this Court—B.R. Building
Resources Company v. SA Hospital Acquisition Group, LLC, et al., 22PSCV01609)—B.R.
Resources alleges that it has been unable to make these monthly payments due to
the actions of two other individuals, Lawrence Feigen and Jeffrey Ahlholm—the
owners and agents of the entities that own and operate South City Hospital, SA Hospital Acquisition Group, LLC, SA
Hospital Real Estate Holdings, LLC, and SA Hospital Real Estate Holdings
(collectively referred to as the “SA Hospital Defendants”). B.R. Resources
alleges that Feigen and Ahlholm improperly diverted funds that had been designated for various hospital construction
projects to cover hospital expenses, leading the entity funding the
construction projects (Twain Financial Partners) to stop funding the projects
altogether. The Court is inclined to grant leave to the SA Hospital Defendants,
Feigen, and Ahlholm to file a cross-complaint in that related lawsuit (22PSCV01609).
In
the instant lawsuit (23PSCV03948),
B.R. Resources has filed a
cross-complaint against Feigen, Ahlholm, and the SA Hospital Defendants, and
the SA Hospital Defendants, Feigen, and Ahlholm have filed their own
cross-complaint against B.R. Resources.
Pending
before the Court is B.R. Resources’ Demurrer to the Cross Complaint filed by
the SA Hospital Defendants, Feigen, and Ahlholm in this case (22PSCV01609) (the “Cross-Complaint”). Specifically, B.R. Resources
demurs, per Code of Civil Procedure § 4301.0(e) and (f), to the second through
fifth causes of action of the Cross-Complaint, on the basis that they fail to
state facts sufficient to constitute causes of action and are uncertain.
The
parties agree that the Cross-Complaint is, at the
very least, similar to the cross-complaint for which the Court is granting the
SA Hospital Defendants, Feigen, and Ahlholm leave to file in Case No.
22PSCV01609. Accordingly, the Court believes it is likely that B.R. Resources will
also demur to the cross-complaint being filed in Case No. 22PSCV01609.
The
Court thus will continue the hearing on the instant demurrer to November 15, 2024,
at 8:30 a.m., and instructs counsel for B.R. Resources to reserve a hearing on
any demurrer filed as to the cross-complaint being filed in Case No.
22PSCV01609 for that same date.