  Case Number:  22PSCV01609    Hearing Date:   September 11, 2024    Dept:  H Defendants  SA Hospital Acquisition Group, LLC, SA Hospital Real Estate Holdings, LLC, SA  Hospital Real Estate Holdings–Jefferson, LLC, Lawrence Feigen, and Jeffrey  Ahlholm’s Unopposed Motion for Leave to File Cross-Complaint is GRANTED.    Background  This  case involves a dispute regarding the alleged diversion of funds that had been  designated for various construction projects to improve South City Hospital in  St. Louis, Missouri. Plaintiff  B.R. Building Resources Company (“B.R.”) alleges in a First Amended Complaint  that defendants Lawrence Feigen and Jeffrey Ahlholm—the owners and agents of  the entities that own and operate South City Hospital, SA Hospital Acquisition Group, LLC, SA Hospital Real Estate Holdings, LLC,  and SA Hospital Real Estate Holdings (collectively referred to as the “SA  Hospital Defendants”)—requested on more than one occasion that B.R. transfer portions  of the funds designated for the construction projects in order to cover hospital  expenses, including payroll expenses. B.R. alleges that it acquiesced to these  requests only to later learn that contrary to Feigen and Ahlholm’s  representations, the entity providing the funding for the construction, Twain  Financial Partners (“Twain”), had not approved of using the funds in this way, leading  Twain to stop funding the projects altogether. As a result of the lack of  funding, B.R. claims, among other things, that it has been unable to pay rental  fees on equipment it leased in connection with the construction projects. (B.R.’s  failure to pay rental fees is the subject of the related lawsuit brought by  Trane U.S. Inc. (Case No. 23PSCV03948), which is also pending before this Court.) The SA Hospital  Defendants, Feigen, and Ahlholm (together, “Defendants”) move the Court for an  order granting them leave to file a proposed cross-complaint that would assert  causes of action against B.R. and B.R.’s Chief Executive Officer, Juan Banos,  for their purported mishandling and misallocation of the construction funds  intended for hospital improvement projects. Because the Cross-Complaint arises  out of the same transactions and occurrences alleged in the Complaint and  because the Court finds that Defendants have acted in good faith, the Court  grants the unopposed motion. The Court also grants Defendants’ Request for  Judicial Notice and takes judicial notice of the events and documents that are  part of this Court’s records in both this case and the related case (Case No.  23PSCV03948).    Legal  Standard If a  party seeks to file a cross-complaint “against any of the parties who filed the  complaint or cross-complaint against him or her,” the party must file the  cross-complaint “before or at the same time as the answer to the complaint or  cross-complaint.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 428.50.) Otherwise, the party must seek  leave of court. (Id.)“[I]f a  party against whom a complaint has been filed and served fails to allege in a  cross-complaint any related cause of action which (at the time of serving his  answer to the complaint) he has against the plaintiff, such party may not  thereafter in any other action assert against the plaintiff the related cause  of action not pleaded.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 426.30, subd. (a).) A “‘[r]elated  cause of action’ means a cause of action which arises out of the same  transaction, occurrence, or series of transactions or occurrences as the cause  of action which the plaintiff alleges in his complaint.” (Code Civ. Proc. §  426.10, subd. (c).) “A  party who fails to plead a cause of action subject to the [aforementioned]  requirements . . . , whether through oversight, inadvertence, mistake, neglect,  or other cause, may apply to the court for leave to amend his pleading, or to  file a cross-complaint, to assert such cause at any time during the course of  the action.”  (Code Civ. Proc. § 426.50,  subd. (a).) Such requests should be granted “if the party who failed to plead  the cause acted in good faith” and should be liberally construed “to avoid  forfeiture of causes of action.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 426.50, subd. (a).)    Discussion Defendants  seek to file a proposed cross-complaint (the “Cross-Complaint”) against B.R. and  Juan Banos that includes causes of action for breach of contract, fraud in the  concealment, fraud in the deceit, accounting, conversion, and intentional  interference with contractual relations. Defendants represent that their claims  against B.R. arise from B.R.’s “alleged mishandling and misallocation of  construction funds, refusals to provide any accounting or reporting on [its]  use of construction funds and [its] use of construction funds on projects not  related to the Hospital” (Def. Mot., 1:10-15). The Cross-Complaint  thus “arises  out of the same transaction, occurrence, or series of transactions or  occurrences” as B.R.’s causes of action, that is, the parties’ contractual  relationship. (Align Technology, Inc. v. Tran (2009) 179 Cal.App.4th  949, 962.) Further, Defendants acknowledge that their related causes of action  existed at the time Defendants served their answer to the complaint. (See  Pallares Decl., ¶ 3 [“Defendants were in possession of an itemized expense  breakdown spreadsheet from BRB Building as of September 26, 2022 which, in  part, forms the basis of Defendants’ proposed cross-complaint”].) Accordingly,  the Cross-Complaint is compulsory such that Defendants’ claims are subject to  forfeiture if the motion is not granted. Moreover,  based on the Declaration of William E. Pallares and the files and records in  this case, the Court determines that Defendants have acted in good faith  warranting leave to file the Cross-Complaint. “[W]hat constitutes ‘good faith’  must be determined in conformity with the liberality conferred upon the trial  courts by the section and by prior law.” (Sidney v. Superior Court  (1988) 198 Cal.App.3d 710, 718 [citation omitted].) “[T]his principle of  liberality requires that a strong showing of bad faith be made in order to  support a denial of the right to file a cross-complaint under this section. It  is preferable that the parties have their day in court.” (Id.  [quotations and citation omitted].) Defendants  represent that they were not prepared to file a cross-complaint simultaneously  with their January 30, 2023 answer since some of the potential claims asserted  include fraud, which requires a higher degree of specificity in the pleading (Pallares  Decl., ¶¶ 3 and 4); that throughout 2023, Defendants’ limited resources were  diverted to discovery motion practice, bankruptcy, a receivership, and  litigation, which delayed Defendants’ ability to obtain more documents to  verify and develop their claims for any cross-complaint (Id., ¶¶ 5-11);  that, once the receivership motions were resolved, Defendants’ counsel  initially planned to move for leave to file a cross-complaint, but discovered  pleading deficiencies in B.R.’s complaint, leading him to meet and confer with  B.R.’s counsel regarding the possible filing of a motion for judgment on the  pleadings, which in turn led counsel to stipulate to the filing of a First Amended  Complaint (Id., ¶¶ 12 and 13); that counsel erroneously believed the  filing of the First Amended Complaint reopened the pleadings for the purposes  of a demurrer and cross-complaint (Id., ¶ 14) and that he filed the  December 15, 2023 cross-complaint on this mistaken basis (Id., ¶ 15). Based  on these representations, while the Court is mindful of the fact that the  previously assigned judge granted B.R.’s motion to strike Defendants’ cross-complaint  on the basis that it was untimely filed without leave of court, the Court finds  that Defendants have acted in good faith and should be permitted to file the  Cross-Complaint. The  Court grants the unopposed motion. Defendants are directed to file the Cross-Complaint  by no later than September 18, 2024. 