  Case Number:  22TRCV00711    Hearing Date:   March 19, 2024    Dept:  B 


Superior
  Court of California
County
  of Los Angeles
Southwest
  District
Torrance
  Dept. B




 
T.B.,
  


 
 
 
Plaintiff,


 
Case No.:
 


 
22TRCV00711




 
vs.


 


 
[Tentative]
  RULING
 




 
DOE
  1, et al.,


 
 
 
Defendants.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing
Date:                          March 19,
2024
 
Moving Party:                         Defendants Manhattan
Beach Unified School District and Redondo Beach Unified School District
Responding
Party:                  Plaintiff T.B.
Demurrer
to SAC
 
            The court considered the moving, opposition,
and reply papers.
RULING
            The demurrer to the third, fourth,
fifth, and sixth causes of action in the SAC is OVERRULED.  Defendants are ordered to file answers within
twenty days.
BACKGROUND
            On August 18, 2022, plaintiff filed
a complaint against defendant Doe 1 and Does 2 through 25 for (1) negligence as
to District, (2) negligent hiring, retention, and supervision as to District,
(3) negligence as to Does 2 through 25, and (4) negligent hiring, retention,
and supervision as to Does 2 through 25. 
            On November 7, 2022, plaintiff filed
certificate of corroborative fact and certificate of merit as to Doe 1.
            On November 14, 2022, plaintiff
filed a FAC naming South Bay Union School District as Doe 1.
            On May 12, 2023, plaintiff filed
certificate of merit.  On May 15, 2023,
the court granted plaintiff’s ex parte application to seal certificates of
merit, permit service on Doe defendants, and permit plaintiff to file an
amended complaint.
            On June 30, 2023, plaintiff filed a
SAC naming Manhattan Beach Unified School District as Doe 2 and Redondo Beach
Unified School District as Doe 3.
An
Observation
Rule of Court 8.1115 essentially
provides that only published California Supreme Court or Cout of Appeal
decisions may be cited.  Other cases
“must not be cited or relied on by the court or a party in any other action.”  How does this rule apply to (unpublished)
Superior Court rulings by other judges? 
Is it proper to note how other Superior Court Judges have ruled on
similar pleadings?  Perhaps the failure
of the Rule to address this question leads counsel to believe that it is proper
to argue to the Court that other Superior Court judges have ruled a particular
way in cases similar to the one before the Court.  This bench officer does not believe that it
is correct to reach such a conclusion, as to do so essentially is turning
non-citable rulings into “citations.”
This Court does not make its
determination by relying upon the rulings of other Superior Court judges that
are not citable authority.  Nor does it
think it proper to “cite” those rulings in counsel’s argument.
 
LEGAL AUTHORITY
When considering demurrers, courts
read the allegations liberally and in context. 
Taylor v. City of Los Angeles Dept. of Water and Power (2006) 144
Cal. App. 4th 1216, 1228.  “A demurrer
tests the pleadings alone and not the evidence or other extrinsic matters.  Therefore, it lies only where the defects
appear on the face of the pleading or are judicially noticed.”  SKF Farms v. Superior Court (1984) 153
Cal. App. 3d 902, 905.  “The only issue
involved in a demurrer hearing is whether the complaint, as it stands,
unconnected with extraneous matters, states a cause of action.”  Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147 Cal. App. 4th
740, 747.
DISCUSSION
            Defendants
Manhattan Beach Unified School District and Redondo Beach Unified School
District (“Districts”) demur to the third and fourth causes of action (as to
MBUSD) and fifth and sixth causes of action (as to RBUSD) on the grounds that the
court has no jurisdiction over these causes of action, plaintiff does not have
the legal capacity to sue, there is a defect or misjoinder of parties, there
are insufficient facts to state a cause of action, and they are uncertain. 
The SAC
alleges that plaintiff was sexually assaulted in about 1980-1981 by two
individuals employed by Aviation High School, a former school of the
now-defunct South Bay Union School District. 
The SAC further alleges that pursuant to Government Code §905, this
action, brought pursuant to CCP §340.1, is exempt from the claims presentation
requirement set forth in the California Government Tort Claims Act. Gov. Code
§905(m).  SAC, ¶47.  
Government
Code §905(m) states that, “There shall be presented in . . . all claims for
money or damages against local public entities except any of the
following:  . . . (m) Claims made
pursuant to Section 340.1 of the Code of Civil Procedure for the recovery of
damages suffered as a result of childhood sexual assault.”
The court
also notes that CCP §340.1(q) states:  “Notwithstanding
any other law, a claim for damages described in paragraphs (1) through (3),
inclusive, of subdivision (a) that has not been litigated to finality and that
would otherwise be barred as of January 1, 2020, because the applicable statute
of limitations, claim presentation deadline, or any other time limit had
expired, is revived, and these claims may be commenced within three years of
January 1, 2020.  A plaintiff shall have
the later of the three-year time period under this subdivision or the time
period under subdivision (a) as amended by the act that added this subdivision.”
(Italics added.)
            Defendants
argue that plaintiff’s lawsuit is time-barred because recent amendments to CCP §340.1
and Gov. Code §§905, 935 by the Legislature through Assembly Bill 218 cannot
constitutionally operate to revive already unenforceable claims that were
subject to the claims presentation requirements before AB 218 because the
Legislature has no power to create liability for past conduct where no
enforceable claim existed.  Defendants
argue that AB 218 violates Article XVI, section 6 of the California
Constitution, which prohibits gifts of public funds, through its provisions
stripping the Districts of statutory governmental immunity.  Defendants cite to Chapman v. State
(1894) 104 Cal. 690, 693 (“the legislature has no power to create a liability
against the state for [] past act of negligence.”).  Defendants assert that the imposition of
liability against a school district for a “past act of negligence” of an
employee “would, in effect, be the making of a gift.”  Heron v. Riley (1930) 209 Cal. 507,
517.  Defendants also cite to Jordan
v. Department of Motor Vehicles (2002) 100 Cal. App. 4th 431,
450 (“The term ‘gift’ in the constitutional provision ‘includes all
appropriations of public money for which there is no authority or enforceable
claim,’ even if there is a moral or equitable obligation.”) (citation omitted).
Acknowledging that if an appropriation is made for a “public purpose,” it is
not a “gift” within the meaning of the constitutional prohibition, defendant
argues that claims for injuries related to sexual assault are personal in
nature, and do not otherwise benefit the public as a whole, citing to Weeks
v. Baker & McKenzie (1998) 63 Cal. App. 4th 1128, 1170.  Also, defendants assert, plaintiffs never had
an enforceable claim against defendants for alleged abuse in 1980 and 1981.   
In
opposition, plaintiff contends that the retroactive elimination of claims
presentation requirements in AB 218 is constitutional because it does not
violate the California Constitution as it has a clear and established public
purpose based on the legislative history, including justice and accountability,
deterrence, positive internal change, reducing societal costs, and public trust
and transparency. Plaintiff contends that the relevant legislative history
begins with the first revival of claims arising from child sexual assault when
section 340.1 was originally enacted in 1986. 
See Liebig v. Superior Court (1989) 209 Cal. App. 3d 828, 834
(“In this case the important state interest espoused by section 340.1 is the
increased availability of tort relief to plaintiffs who had been the victims of
child sexual abuse while a minor. . . . The language of the retroactivity
provision of section 340.1 indicates a clear legislative intent to maximize
claims of sexual-abuse minor plaintiffs for as expansive a period of time as
possible.  The public policy is manifest
from the text of the law.”).  In 2008,
plaintiff explains, Gov. Code §905(m) was added, which prospectively excepted
from claims presentation requirements claims made pursuant to section
340.1.  Plaintiff argues that in AB 218,
the Legislature took the next step in advancing the important state interest of
opening the courts to victims of childhood sexual assault by making the
abrogation of claims presentation requirements retroactive.  Plaintiff cites also to the legislative
history of AB 218 (“In an effort to allow more victims of childhood sexual
assault to be compensated for their injuries and to help prevent future
assaults by raising the costs for this abuse . . . .”).  See also Coats v. New Haven Unified School
Dist. (2020) 46 Cal. App. 5th 415, 422 (rejecting arguments that
AB 2018 was unconstitutional as an ex post facto law or under the due process
clauses of the 5th and 14th Amendments to the U.S.
Constitution).
            The
court rules as follows:  The court finds
that the allegations are sufficient to constitute a cause of action and are not
ambiguous and that plaintiff has standing. 
Plaintiff sufficiently alleges an exemption under the Government Claims
Act.  The court is inclined to determine that
AB 218, and specifically, Gov. Code §905(m) is constitutional as there is no
appellate case law or statutory law determining otherwise.  The closest case addressing AB 218’s
constitutionality is Coats v. New Haven Unified School District (2020)
46 Cal. App. 5th 415, which determined that AB 218, including the
claims requirement exemption, is constitutional (although defendant’s argument
as to the gift clause was not raised).  In
Coats, the plaintiffs had alleged that they were not required to present
a claim to the school district under the Government Claims Act due to the
exemption for claims of sexual abuse of a minor stated in Gov. Code §905(m)—that
section at the time provided an exception for the recovery of damages suffered
as a result of childhood sexual assault arising out of conduct occurring on or
after January 1, 2009 as opposed to the current Gov. Code §905(m) which applies
retroactively.  The appellate court noted
the legislative history of the 2008 amendment, which states that, “’340.1’s
delayed discovery provisions recognize’ that ‘for many victims, the emotional
and psychological trauma from childhood sexual abuse does not manifest itself
until well into adulthood’” and that the intention is “’to ensure that victims
severely damaged by childhood sexual abuse are able to seek compensation from
those responsible, whether those responsible are private or public
entities.’”  Id. at 422 (citations
omitted).  When the appeal was pending,
AB 218 was signed into law, and the appellate court noted that of direct
relevance was the addition of CCP §340.1(q) and the amendment to Gov. Code §905(m).  In further briefing, the defendant school
district responded that “Assembly Bill 218 raises serious constitutional issues
in that it ‘imposes liability and sanctions of a punitive nature for conduct
that was not previously actionable’ and thereby ‘runs afoul of the
constitutional prohibition against ex post facto laws and the due process
clauses of the 5th and 14th Amendments to the United
States Constitution and the California counterpart.””  Id. at 424.  The appellate court then noted that “[t]he
only question before us on this appeal is whether appellants’ suit is barred by
their failure to timely file a claim with the District under its administrative
regulation for board policy.”  Id.
at 426.  The appellate court
concluded:  “The present case, of course,
involves revival of a cause of action barred by a claim presentation
requirement, not a statute of limitations. 
But we are aware of no reason the Legislature should be any less able to
revive claims in this context, as it expressly did in Assembly Bill 218.”  Id. at 428.  “In Assembly Bill 218, the Legislature made
clear its intent to revive causes of action previously barred by government claims
presentation requirements.”  Id.  The appellate court noted that “[i]n Assembly
Bill 218, the Legislature has again attempted to balance the competing concerns
of protecting public entities from stale claims and allowing victims of
childhood sexual abuse to seek compensation. 
This time, the Legislature came to a different conclusion, with an
express revival provision for claims against public entities as well as those
against private defendants.”  Id.  The appellate court acknowledged though that
the changes made through AB 218 were not implicated in the Coats case,
including the retroactive application, but stated “[t]he District offers no
reason for finding the claim revival provisions of Assembly Bill 218
unconstitutional.”  
The court
also finds that defendant has not shown that the “gift clause” is applicable or
triggered because there has been no determination of defendants’ liability or
allocation of public funds at the pleading stage.  Further, even if it does apply, the
legislative history shows a “public purpose.” 

            The
demurrer is thus OVERRULED.
ORDER
            The
demurrer to the third, fourth, fifth, and sixth causes of action in the SAC is
OVERRULED.
            Defendants
are ordered to file an answer within 20 days.
Plaintiff
is ordered to give notice of ruling.