 Case Number:  23TRCV02412    Hearing Date:   March 19, 2024    Dept:  B 


Superior Court
  of California
County of Los Angeles
Southwest
  District
Torrance Dept. B




 
KELSEY
  VANN, et al.,


 
 
 
Plaintiffs,


 
Case No.:
 


 
23TRCV02443
  r/t 23TRCV02412




 
vs.


 


 
[Tentative]
  RULING
 




 
ROBINSON
  HELICOPTER COMPANY, INC., et al.,


 
 
 
Defendants.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing
Date:                          March 19, 2024
 
Moving Parties:                      Defendant Rolls-Royce
Corporation
Responding Party:                  None
(1)  
Application of Robert J. Williams
for Admission Pro Hac Vice
(2)  
Application of J. Denny Shupe for
Admission Pro Hac Vice
(3)  
Application of Lee C. Schmeer for
Admission Pro Hac Vice
 
            The court considered the moving papers.
RULING
The applications are GRANTED.  The court ORDERS that Robert J. Williams, J.
Denny Shupe, and Lee C. Schmeer appear as counsel pro hac vice for defendant
Rolls-Royce Corporation. 
BACKGROUND
            On July 25, 2023, plaintiffs Beverly
Wilson, ind. and as personal representative and/or successor in interest to Charles
Wilson, deceased, and Lauren Romero and Natalie Medeiros, ind. as surviving
children of Charles Wilson filed a complaint against Robinson Helicopter
Company, Inc., Rolls-Royce Corporation, and Air Shasta Rotor & Wing, Inc.
for (1) negligence-products liability, (2) strict liability-products liability,
(3) negligence, and (4) breach of warranties based on a crash of a Robinson
Helicopter Company R66 on August 1, 2021.
DISCUSSION
Attorneys Robert J. Williams, J.
Denny Shupe, and Lee C. Schmeer request leave to appear as counsel pro hac vice
for defendant Rolls-Royce Corporation. 
CRC Rule 9.40 provides that an
attorney in good standing in another jurisdiction may apply to appear as
counsel pro hac vice in the State of California by filing a verified
application together with proof of service by mail of a copy of the application
and notice of hearing on all parties who have appeared in the case and on the
State Bar of California at its San Francisco office, with payment of a $50.00
fee, so long as that attorney is not a resident of the State of California, and
is not regularly engaged in substantial business, professional, or other
activities in the State of California.  
The application must state:  (1) the applicant’s residence and office
address; (2) the courts to which the applicant has been admitted to practice
and the dates of admission; (3) that the applicant is a member in good standing
in those courts; (4) that the applicant is not currently suspended or disbarred
in any court; (5) the title of each court and cause in which the applicant has
filed an application to appear as counsel pro hac vice in this state in the
preceding two years, the date of each application, and whether or not it was
granted; and (5) the name, address, and telephone number of the active member
of the State Bar of California who is attorney of record in the local
action.  CRC Rule 9.40(d).
            The court finds that the attorneys’
applications comply with the requirements of Rule 9.40.  The applicants have paid the required $50.00
fee to the State Bar of California.  CRC
Rule 9.40(e).
The applications are GRANTED.
Moving party is to give notice of
this ruling.