 Case Number:  23STCP01284    Hearing Date:   September 24, 2024    Dept:  72  
SUPERIOR COURT OF CALIFORNIA
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES
 
DEPARTMENT 72
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



ADRIANA GALINDO, 
 
                                  Petitioner,
  
         v.
 
 
GREEN REMODELING & BEYOND,
  INC., et al.,
 
                                  Respondent.
 


 Case No: 
  23STCP01284
 
 
 
 
 
 Hearing Date:  September 24, 2024
 Calendar Number:  4



 
 
 
Petitioner Adriana Galindo (“Petitioner”) petitions the
Court to confirm the arbitration award issued between Petitioner and Respondent
Green Remodeling & Beyond, Inc. (“Green”) on May 31, 2019 (the “Award”) and
enter judgment in favor of Petitioner in accordance with the Award.
 
The Court GRANTS the petition in part. The Court GRANTS the
petition as to Respondent Green. The Court DENIES the petition to the extent
that it seeks to impose liability on Respondents James Prejean (“Prejean”) or
Ilan Nizar (“Nizar”). 
 
The Court does not have a proposed judgment incorporating
the award and directs Petitioner to submit such a proposed judgment.  The Court sets an OSC re entry of judgment
within 30 days.
 
Background
 
This dispute relates to a home remodeling contract.
 
Petitioner Galindo and non-party Mildred Chang entered into
a home improvement contract (the “Contract”) with Respondent Green. (Petition,
Attachment 4(b).) The Contract contained an agreement to arbitrate disputes
between the parties (the “Arbitration Agreement”). (Petition, Attachment 4(b) at p. 13.)
 
A dispute
subsequently arose between Petitioner and Green.
 
An arbitration was conducted before the Contractors State
License Board Arbitration Program. (Petition, Attachment 8(c).) On May 31,
2019, the arbitrator, Daniel Smith, issued an award (the “Award”) in
Petitioner’s favor and against Green. (Petition, Attachment 8(c).) The
arbitrator found that upon termination of the Contract, Green had received
funds in excess of the value of the work performed and ordered that Green
return $47,150.00 to Petitioner. 
 
The Award appears to indicate that Nizer is a contact person
or addressee for Green. However, the license number listed in the Award for the
respondent is that of Green, as shown by the Contractors State License Board,
of which the Court takes judicial notice.
 
Petitioner filed this petition on April 20, 2023, naming Green,
Prajean, and Nizer (collectively, “Respondents”) as respondents.
 
On May 7, 2024, Prajean and Nizer jointly filed an
opposition, in which they contend that the Award does not provide for their
personal liability.
 
Legal Standard
 
“Any party to an arbitration in which an award has been made
may petition the court to confirm, correct or vacate the award. The petition
shall name as respondents all parties to the arbitration and may name as
respondents any other persons bound by the arbitration award.” (Code Civ.
Proc., § 1285.) Venue is proper in any court having jurisdiction in the county
where the arbitration was held. (Code Civ. Proc., § 1292.2.)
 
If a petition to confirm an arbitration award is duly served
and filed, the court must confirm the award as made, unless the court corrects
or vacates the award pursuant to a response to the petition or a petition to
correct or vacate the award. (Code Civ. Proc., § 1286; Valsan Partners
Limited Partnership v. Calcor Space Facility, Inc. (1994) 25 Cal.App.4th
809, 818 [no authority to alter terms of award absent petition to
correct].) “If an award is confirmed, judgment shall be entered in
conformity therewith.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 1287.4.) 
 
“A petition under this chapter shall:
 
(a) Set forth the
substance of or have attached a copy of the agreement to arbitrate unless the
petitioner denies the existence of such an agreement.
 
(b) Set forth the names of the
arbitrators.
 
(c) Set forth or
have attached a copy of the award and the written opinion of the arbitrators,
if any.”
 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 1285.4.)
 
The petition must be served no earlier than 10 days, but no
later than 4 years, after service of the award on the petitioner. (Code Civ.
Proc., §§ 1288, 1288.4.) The petition, written notice of the time and
place of the hearing on the petition, and any other papers upon which the
petition is based must be served in the manner provided in the arbitration
agreement for service of such petition and notice. (Code Civ. Proc., §
1290.4(a).)
 
“[A]n arbitrator's decision is not ordinarily reviewable for
error by either the trial or appellate courts[.]” (Moncharsh v. Heily &
Blase (1992) 3 Cal.4th 1, 13.) “[J]udicial review of private arbitration
awards [is limited] to those cases in which there exists a statutory ground to
vacate or correct the award.” (Id. at pp. 27-28.) These grounds are set
forth in Code of Civil Procedure, sections 1286.2 and 1286.6. (Id. at p.
13.) A court may not
vacate or correct an award unless a petition or response requesting that the
award be vacated or corrected has been duly served and filed. (Code Civ. Proc.,
§§ 1286.4, 1286.8.)
 
Discussion
 
Petitioner has
timely filed her petition for confirmation. Petitioner has provided a copy of
the Arbitration Agreement (Petition, Attachment 4(b) at p. 13), a copy of the
Award (Petition, Attachment 8(c)), and the name of the Arbitrator (Petition,
Attachment 8(c) at p. 1). She has thus complied with Code of Civil
Procedure, section 1285.4.
 
Prajean and Nizer do not oppose the petition as to Green,
but argue that the Award did not grant Petitioner any remedies against Prajean
or Nizer personally. The Court agrees. The Award entitles the arbitration “In
the Matter of: Adriana Galindo c/o Geoffrey G. Melkonian, Esq. v. Green
Remodeling & Beyond”.
 
Service of the award was effected on Petitioner and Green,
but not on Prajean or Nizer. (Petition, Attachment 8(c) at p. 2.)
 
As discussed above, the Award appears to indicate that Nizer
is a contact person or addressee for Green. However, the license number listed
in the Award for the respondent is that of Green, as shown by the Contractors
State License Board, of which the Court takes judicial notice.
 
Prajean is not mentioned by name at all in the Award, and it
is unclear what his relation to the case is.
 
Nothing in the petition or the award indicates that a theory
such as alter ego liability is available under which Prajean or Nizer could be held
liable in Green’s place.
 
The Court therefore finds that the Award was granted against
Green, but not against Prajean or Nizer. The Court therefore grants the
petition as against Green, but denies the petition insofar as it attempts to
impose personal liability on Prajean or Nizer.
 
 
 