 Case Number:  24STCV11264    Hearing Date:   September 24, 2024    Dept:  72  
SUPERIOR COURT OF CALIFORNIA
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES
 
DEPARTMENT 72
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



MARIELITA PALACIOS, 
 
                                  Plaintiff,
  
         v.
 
 
FANDOM, INC.,
 
                                  Defendant.
 


 Case No: 
  24STCV11264
 
 
 
 
 
 Hearing Date:  September 24, 2024
 Calendar Number:  10



 
 
 
Defendant Fandom, Inc. (“Defendant”) demurs to the First
Amended Complaint (“FAC”) filed by Plaintiff Marielita Palacios (“Plaintiff”).
Defendant additionally moves to strike certain portions of the FAC related to
punitive damages.
 
The Court SUSTAINS the demurrer WITH LEAVE TO AMEND.
Plaintiff shall have 15 days from the issuance of this order to amend her
complaint.
 
The Court DENIES the motion to strike as MOOT.
 
Background
 
This case is brought under the California Invasion of
Privacy Act (“CIPA”). The following facts are taken from the allegations of the
FAC, which the Court accepts as true for the purposes of the demurrer.
 
Defendant owns and operates the website Fandom.com (the
“Website”), a publicly-accessible entertainment website.
 
When a user accesses a website, the website exchanges
information with the user’s computer so that the website server can provide the
user’s computer with instructions on how to load the website. Plaintiff alleges
that, as a part of this process, the Website causes users’ computers to install
code (the “Accused Code”) which records the user’s device’s IP address.  (Complaint ¶ 52.)  Plaintiff alleges that the Accused Code then
causes the user’s browser to send the user’s IP address to third-party software
developers when the user visits the website for the first time and upon
subsequent visits.  (Complaint ¶ 53.)
 
Plaintiff visited the Website in February 2024. Plaintiff
alleges that the Accused Code collected her IP address.
 
Plaintiff filed this action on May 6, 2024. The operative
complaint is now the FAC, which raises one claim for violation of CIPA, Penal
Code section 638.51, subd. (a).
 
Requests for Judicial Notice
 
The Court grants the parties’ requests for judicial notice
and takes notice of the submitted legislative materials as public records.
 
Legal Standard
 
Demurrer
 
As a general matter, in a demurrer, the defects must be
apparent on the face of the pleading or via proper judicial notice. (Donabedian v. Mercury Ins. Co. (2004)
116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994.) “A demurrer tests the pleading alone, and not
the evidence or facts alleged.” (E-Fab,
Inc. v. Accountants, Inc.
Servs. (2007) 153 Cal.App.4th 1308, 1315.) The court assumes the truth of
the complaint’s properly pleaded or implied factual allegations. (Ibid.) The only issue a demurrer is
concerned with is whether the complaint, as it stands, states a cause of
action. (Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747.)
 
Where a demurrer is sustained, leave to amend must be
allowed where there is a reasonable possibility of successful amendment. (Goodman v. Kennedy (1976) 18 Cal.3d 335,
348.) The burden is on the plaintiff to show the court that a pleading can be
amended successfully. (Ibid.;
Lewis v. YouTube, LLC (2015) 244 Cal.App.4th 118, 226.) However, “[i]f
there is any reasonable possibility that the plaintiff can state a good cause
of action, it is error to sustain a demurrer without leave to amend.” (Youngman v. Nevada Irrigation Dist.
(1969) 70 Cal.2d 240, 245).
 
Motion to Strike
 
The court may, upon a motion, or at any time in its
discretion, and upon terms it deems proper, strike any irrelevant, false, or
improper matter inserted in any pleading. (Code Civ. Proc., § 436(a).) The
court may also strike all or any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in
conformity with the laws of this state, a court rule, or an order of the court.
(Code Civ. Proc., § 436(b).) The grounds for a motion to strike are that the
pleading has irrelevant, false or improper matter, or has not been drawn or
filed in conformity with laws. (Code Civ. Proc., § 436.) The grounds for moving
to strike must appear on the face of the pleading or by way of judicial notice.
(Code Civ. Proc., § 437.)
 
Discussion
 
Demurrer
 
A person who has been injured by a violation of CIPA may
bring an action against the violator for the greater of $5,000.00 or three
times the amount of actual damages, if any, sustained by the plaintiff. (Pen.
Code, § 637.2, subd. (a).) “It is not a necessary prerequisite to an action
pursuant to this section that the plaintiff has suffered, or be threatened
with, actual damages.” (Pen. Code, § 637.2, subd. (c).)
 
“Except as provided in subdivision (b), a person may not
install or use a pen register or a trap and trace device without first
obtaining a court order pursuant to Section 638.52 or 638.53.” (Pen. Code, §
638.51, subd. (a).)
 
“ ‘Pen register’ means a device or process that records or
decodes dialing, routing, addressing, or signaling information transmitted by
an instrument or facility from which a wire or electronic communication is
transmitted, but not the contents of a communication. ‘Pen register’ does not
include a device or process used by a provider or customer of a wire or
electronic communication service for billing, or recording as an incident to
billing, for communications services provided by such provider, or a device or
process used by a provider or customer of a wire communication service for cost
accounting or other similar purposes in the ordinary course of its business.”
(Pen. Code, § 638.50, subd. (b).)
 
“ ‘Trap and trace device’ means a device or process that
captures the incoming electronic or other impulses that identify the
originating number or other dialing, routing, addressing, or signaling
information reasonably likely to identify the source of a wire or electronic
communication, but not the contents of a communication.” (Pen. Code, § 638.50,
subd. (c).)
 
As Plaintiff explains, “[i]n plain English, a ‘pen register’
is a ‘device or process’ that records outgoing information, whereas a “trap and
trace device’ is a ‘device or process’ that records incoming information. A
‘pen register’ and ‘trap and trace device’ are collectively referred to herein
as ‘Pen-Traps’ or ‘PR/TT’.” (FAC ¶ 13.) “Historically, law enforcement used
‘pen registers’ to record the numbers of outgoing calls from a particular
telephone line, while law enforcement used ‘trap and trace devices’ to record
the numbers of incoming calls to that particular telephone line. As technology
advanced, however, courts have expanded the application of those surveillance
devices consistent with changes in both federal and state law.” (FAC ¶ 14.)
 
Defendant argues that Plaintiff has failed to allege that
Defendant’s website used a pen register or trap and trace device. Defendant
argues that outgoing “dialing, routing, addressing, or signaling information”,
as defined in Penal Code, section 638.50, subd. (b), refers only to destination
information – i.e., the information of the server that a computer is connecting
to, but not the computer’s own IP address. Plaintiff argues that a
computer’s IP address is included in outgoing “dialing, routing, addressing, or
signaling information” within the meaning of the pen register statute.
 
Historically, courts recognized that “[a] pen register is a
mechanical device which records the numbers dialed from a telephone[.]” (People
v. Blair (1979) 25 Cal.3d 640, 654.) While the statutory definition of a
pen register now includes electronic communications in mediums other than
simply telephone communications, Plaintiff has not provided authority showing
that the category of information collected by pen registers as defined by the
statute has been expanded. The analog of the number dialed by a telephone here
is the IP address and related information of a website accessed by a computer –
but not the computer’s own IP address.
 
Legislative materials from AB 929, which expanded the
ability of law enforcement to use pen registers, also support this
interpretation. “One of the tools available to law enforcement is called a ‘pen
register’ which allows law enforcement officers to record all outgoing numbers
from a particular telephone line. In addition, another tool law enforcement
uses is called a ‘trap and trace device’ which allows them to record what
numbers have called a specific telephone line, i.e. all incoming phone
numbers.” (Defendant’s Request for Judicial Notice, Ex. 3 at p. 3, Concurrence
in Senate Amendments, AB 929, June 17, 2015.) 
 
The Court concludes that, as alleged, the Accused Code is
not a pen register because it does not collect the destination information of
communications from Plaintiff’s computer.
 
Plaintiff argues that the Accused Code alternatively
constitutes a trap and trace device, which is also prohibited by section
638.51. Plaintiff has not alleged that the Accused Code collects incoming
information directed toward Plaintiff’s computer. However, it is not entirely
clear that Plaintiff could not allege such a function. The Court therefore
sustains the demurrer with leave to amend.
 
Motion to Strike
 
Because the Court sustains the demurrer with leave to amend,
the Court denies the motion to strike as moot.