 Case Number:  21STCV35298    Hearing Date:   September 24, 2024    Dept:  72  
SUPERIOR COURT OF CALIFORNIA
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES
 
DEPARTMENT 72
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



ZURICH AMERICAN INSURANCE COMPANY,
  
 
                                  Plaintiffs,
  
         v.
 
 
MITSUBISHI ELECTRIC US, INC., et
  al.,
 
                                  Defendants.
 


 Case No: 
  21STCV35298
 
 
 
 
 
 Hearing Date:  September 24, 2024
 Calendar Number:  8



 
 
 
Plaintiff Zurich American Insurance Company (“Zurich”) moves
for summary adjudication against Defendant Mitsubishi Electric US, Inc. (“Mitsubishi”).
Zurich seeks summary adjudication of the following issues: 
 
Issue No. 1:
As to Zurich’s first cause of action for breach of contract included in the Second
Amended Complaint (“SAC”) filed on behalf of Zurich.
Issue No. 2:
As to whether Mitsubishi owes a duty to Zurich in connection with the written agreement
upon which Zurich’s breach of contract claim is based.
Issue No. 3:
As to the Affirmative Defense No. 24 (“No Duty”) pled in the Answer filed on
behalf of MEUS in response to the SAC.
Issue No. 4:
As to the Affirmative Defense No. 30 (“Standing”) pled in the Answer filed on
behalf of MEUS in response to the SAC.
Issue No. 5:
That Zurich is entitled to indemnity in the amount of $1,247,901.00 from Mitsubishi
per the written agreement.
Issue No. 6:
Mitsubishi owes a duty to indemnify Zurich under the written agreement.
Issue No. 7:
That Mitsubishi’s Answer’s Affirmative Defense No. 24 is without merit.
Issue No. 8:
That Mitsubishi’s Answer’s Affirmative Defense No. 30 (“Standing”) is without
merit.
 
The Court GRANTS the motion as to issues 4 and 8.
 
The Court DENIES the motion as to the remaining issues.
 
Background
 
The following facts come from the parties’ separate
statements except where otherwise noted. The Court considers the evidence in
the light most favorable to the nonmoving party.
 
This is a subrogation action that Plaintiffs Zurich and ACE
Property & Casualty Insurance Company (“Ace”) (collectively with Zurich, “Plaintiffs”)
are prosecuting against Mitsubishi. This case relates to a settled and resolved
lawsuit involving personal injuries resulting from an elevator accident at a DoubleTree-branded
hotel located at 120 South Los Angeles Street, Los Angeles, California 90012
(the “Hotel”). Plaintiffs seek reimbursement from Mitsubishi under an express
indemnity provision in a service agreement to which Mitsubishi is a party. 
 
Plaintiffs are both insurers that issued liability policies
to The RIM Corporation (“RIM”) covering damages resulting from bodily injuries.
(Undisputed Fact (“UF”) 13.) Zurich is the primary insurer for RIM, while Ace
is the excess insurer for RIM.
 
On July 23, 2014 David Rayburn suffered personal injuries while
riding in an elevator in the Hotel (the “Incident”). Plaintiffs contend that
the Incident resulted from Mitsubishi’s failure to properly maintain the
elevator.
 
At the time of the Incident, the Hotel was owned by 120
South Los Angeles Street Hotel Investors LLC (“Investors LLC”) and 120 South
Los Angeles Street Hotel Operator LLC (“Operator LLC”) (collectively, the
“Owners”). (UF 2.) The Hotel was operated by RIM, which was responsible for
overseeing the day-to-day management and operation of the Hotel under an
agreement with the Owners (the “Management Agreement”). (UF 4-5.) Plaintiffs contend
that RIM was an agent of the Owners and had a d/b/a as “RIM Hospitality, Inc.”
(“RIM Hospitality”).
 
Also at the time of the incident, Operator LLC had entered
into a Vertical Transportation Maintenance Agreement (the “Elevator Agreement”)
with Mitsubishi, under which Mitsubishi agreed to furnish maintenance services
for the elevators at the Hotel. (UF 6-10.) RIM, through its then-CFO Jeff
Virgil, executed the Elevator Agreement on behalf of the Owners. (UF 7.) The
customer under the Elevator Agreement was the hotel ownership. (UF 8.)
 
The Elevator Agreement contain an indemnification clause
(the “Indemnification Clause”) which states that “[t]o the fullest extent
permitted by law, each party (an ‘Indemnitor’) shall defend, indemnify and hold
harmless the other party, its affiliates and Customers and their respective
directors, partners, shareholders, officers, agents and employees
(collectively, the ‘Indemnitees’), from and against all claims, demands,
lawsuits, … liability and expense … resulting from injury to or death of
persons … for which any Indemnitee becomes liable, that is caused by or arises
out of the fault or negligent acts or omissions … of the Indemnitor or anyone
employed by the Indemnitor in connection with activities or the Work under the
Agreement[.]” (UF 9.) The Indemnification Clause provides that “[n]o Indemnitee
shall settle any such Claims without the prior written consent of the Indemnitor,
not unreasonably withheld or delayed.” (Response to Undisputed Fact (“RUF”) 9.)
The Indemnification Clause requires that the parties give each other prompt
written notice of any claims against them that are subject to the clause. (RUF
9.)
 
On October 8, 2015, David Rayburn filed a personal injury
lawsuit in the Los Angeles County Superior Court, Case No. BC597286 (the
“Underlying Action”). (UF 11.) Rayburn named RIM (erroneously named as “RIM
Hospitality”) as a defendant for premises liability. (UF 12.) Per the terms of
its insurance policy, Zurich provided RIM with a defense. (UF 13.) Zurich
expended $247,901 in providing RIM a defense in the Underlying Matter. (UF 14.)
 
On February 15, 2017, Mitsubishi was added as a defendant in
the Underlying Action by Doe Amendment.
 
On November 27, 2017, counsel for RIM sent Mitsubishi a
tender of defense and indemnity. (UF 15.) The parties agreed to table the
issues raised by their tenders until liability in the underlying suit was
adjudicated. (UF 16.) Mitsubishi ultimately refused to defend or indemnify RIM
under the Elevator Agreement. (UF 17.)
 
On February 25, 2019, Rayburn and Mitsubishi reached a
settlement and obtained a determination of good faith settlement from the court.

 
RIM and Rayburn ultimately reached a settlement, which
Plaintiffs agreed to fund. (UF 18.) Zurich contributed $1,000,000.00 to the
settlement on behalf of RIM. (UF 19.)
 
Rayburn dismissed the action with prejudice on July 8, 2019.
 
Plaintiffs filed subrogation actions for indemnification under
the Elevator Agreement against Mitsubishi. The actions were then consolidated.
 
Zurich’s SAC raises claims for (1) breach of contract; and
(2) declaratory relief.
 
            Zurich
moved for summary adjudication of issues on July 5, 2024. Mitsubishi filed an
opposition and Zurich filed a reply.
 
Request for Judicial Notice
 
The Court grants Zurich’s request for judicial notice and
takes notice of the submitted materials as public records. The Court
additionally takes judicial notice of the filings submitted from the Underlying
Action.
 
Evidentiary Objections
 
The Court overrules the parties’ evidentiary objections
without prejudice to their ability to raise them at trial.
 
Legal Standard
 
The purpose of a motion for
summary judgment or summary adjudication “is to provide courts with a mechanism
to cut through the parties’ pleadings in order to determine whether, despite
their allegations, trial is in fact necessary to resolve their dispute.” (Aguilar
v. Atlantic Richfield Co., supra, 25 Cal.4th at p. 843.) “Code of
Civil Procedure section 437c, subdivision (c), requires the trial judge to
grant summary judgment if all the evidence submitted, and ‘all inferences reasonably
deducible from the evidence’ and uncontradicted by other inferences or
evidence, show that there is no triable issue as to any material fact and that
the moving party is entitled to judgment as a matter of law.” (Adler v.
Manor Healthcare Corp. (1992) 7 Cal.App.4th 1110, 1119.) 
 
“In ruling on the motion,
the court must consider all of the evidence and all of the inferences
reasonably drawn therefrom [citation] and must view such evidence [citations]
and such inferences [citations] in the light most favorable to the opposing
party.” (Aguilar, supra, at pp. 844-845 [quotation marks
omitted].) 
 
“On a motion for summary
judgment, the initial burden is always on the moving party to make a prima
facie
showing that there are no triable issues of material fact.” (Scalf v. D. B.
Log Homes, Inc. (2005) 128 Cal.App.4th 1510, 1519.) 
 
“A plaintiff or
cross-complainant has met his or her burden of showing that there is no defense
to a cause of action if that party has proved each element of the cause of
action entitling the party to judgment on the cause of action. Once the
plaintiff or cross-complainant has met that burden, the burden shifts to the
defendant or cross-defendant to show that a triable issue of one or more
material facts exists as to the cause of action or a defense thereto. The
defendant or cross-defendant shall not rely upon the allegations or denials of
its pleadings to show that a triable issue of material fact exists but,
instead, shall set forth the specific facts showing that a triable issue of
material fact exists as to the cause of action or a defense thereto.” (Code
Civ. Proc. § 437c, subd. (p)(1).)
 
 To establish a triable issue of material fact,
the party opposing the motion must produce substantial responsive evidence. (Sangster
v. Paetkau (1998) 68 Cal.App.4th 151,
166.) “If the [opposing party]
cannot do so, summary judgment should be granted.” (Avivi v. Centro Medico
Urgente Medical Center (2008) 159 Cal.App.4th 463, 467.)
 
Discussion
 
Duty to Indemnify
 
The core dispute in this motion relates to the expert
testimony of Joseph Stabler. Stabler provided a declaration in the Underlying
Action that Mitsubishi was at fault for the Incident giving rise to Rayburn’s
injuries. Stabler now provides a declaration in the present action that it is
RIM that was at fault.
 
Stabler was retained in the Underlying by Rayburn, the
plaintiff in that case. (Zurich Ex. B at p. 21.) In the Underlying Action, Mitsubishi
moved for summary judgment against Rayburn. Rayburn submitted a declaration
from Stabler, dated April 9, 2019, in opposition to Mitsubishi’s motion for
summary judgment. (Zurich Ex. B at p. 21.) There, Stabler expressed the
following opinions:
 
22.
That Defendant Mitsubishi Electric US, Inc. knew that they were responsible to
maintain Elevator No. 4 in safe and proper operating condition in accordance
with CCR Title 8 Elevators Safety Orders and ASME A17.1-2004, and failed to do
so, as mentioned herein.
 
23.
That Defendant Mitsubishi Electric US, Inc. had actual knowledge that elevator
No. 4 was involved in three-(3) entrapments and multiple service calls
regarding defective equipment approximately one-(1) year before Mr. Rayburn's
incident, and failed to maintain the elevator in safe and proper operating
condition in accordance with adopted codes, as a reasonable person would
expect.
 
24.
That Defendant Mitsubishi Electric US, Inc., failed to warn Hilton Worldwide
Holdings, Inc., and hotel guests, invitees and visitors that Elevator No. 4 was
defective and potentially hazardous, and may abruptly stop without notice or
warning.
 
25.
That Plaintiff, David Rayburn had a reasonable expectation that Defendant
Mitsubishi would maintain the subject elevator in safe and proper operating
condition, as a reasonable person would expect.
 
26.
That the incident in which Plaintiff, David Rayburn was injured would not
normally occur absent the negligence of those persons responsible to examine,
adjust, maintain, repair, replace, service the elevator to ensure safe and
proper operating conditions.
 
27.
That the absence of a written maintenance control program and proper documentation
of equipment maintenance, service, and repair is a contributing cause to Mr.
Rayburns incident, as mentioned herein.
 
28.
Finally, that this type of incident is foreseeable and preventable, and would
have more than likely been prevented had Defendant Mitsubishi properly
maintained the elevator to ensure safe and proper operating conditions, as
previously mentioned herein.
 
(Zurich Ex. B at p. 36.)
 
As part of his investigation into the matter, Stabler had
performed a physical inspection of the elevator on June 2, 2018 and observed
building, equipment, and operating conditions. (Stabler Decl. ¶ 6.)
 
In the Underlying Action, the court denied Mitsubishi’s
motion for summary judgment, relying in part on Stabler’s expert declaration.
 
Stabler has submitted a declaration in the present case in
support of Mitsubishi. Stabler testifies that he has “subsequently reviewed
additional discovery documents including the elevator maintenance and service
records provided by Mitsubishi, Mitsubishi Electric US, Inc. including the
deposition transcript of William Martinez” in preparation for the declaration.
(Stabler Decl. ¶ 7.) Stabler now provides the following additional opinion
testimony:
 
… I
am of the opinion, that [RIM] had actual knowledge that building engineers were
resetting the elevators and removing passengers at the hotel without
Mitsubishi's knowledge. I am also of the opinion, that the alignment of the
18th floor interlock box, which was the cause of Mr. Rayburn’s incident was,
more likely than not, compromised by untrained personnel of RIM trying to pry
the elevator hoistway doors open without unlocking the subject hoistway door
interlock, or untrained personnel attempting to use the hoistway access key to
unlock and open the elevator doors while the elevator was in operation and
compromising the alignment and adjustment of the interlock box and shorting
bar, and interlock contacts, which are outside [Mitsubishi’s] control and
responsibilities.
 
(Stabler Decl. ¶ 12.)
 
The crux of Zurich’s argument is that Stabler’s testimony
for Rayburn in the Underlying Action is binding on Mitsubishi, against whom it
was offered. Zurich argues that Mitsubishi’s fault with respect to the Incident
therefore cannot be disputed. Zurich argues that a party cannot contradict or
impeach prior declarations to manufacture a disputed issue of fact, citing Benavidez
v. San Jose Police Dept. (1999) 71 Cal.App.4th 853, 860 and Scalf v. D.
B. Log Homes, Inc. (2005) 128 Cal.App.4th 1510, 1522.
 
Zurich’s argument is not correct. The rule on which Zurich
relies applies only to admissions and declarations by a party. The rule does
not apply to statements or declarations by a witness.
 
The cases cited by Zurich make this clear. In Benavidez,
the Court of Appeal stated that “ ‘[a] party cannot create an issue of fact by
a declaration which contradicts his prior [discovery responses].
[Citation.] In determining whether any triable issue of material fact exists,
the trial court may, in its discretion, give great weight to admissions made in
deposition and disregard contradictory and self-serving affidavits of the
party.’ [Citation.]” (Benavidez v. San Jose Police Dept. (1999) 71
Cal.App.4th 853, 860 [emphasis added].) “Properly applied, [this rule] is
limited to instances where ‘credible [discovery] admissions ... [are]
contradicted only by self-serving declarations of a party.’ [Citation.] In a
nutshell, the rule bars a party opposing summary judgment from filing a
declaration that purports to impeach his or her own prior sworn testimony.” (Scalf
v. D. B. Log Homes, Inc. (2005) 128 Cal.App.4th 1510, 1522.)
 
No case cited by Zurich or of which the Court is aware states
that a change in testimony by a percipient or expert witness entitles a party
to summary judgment.  To the contrary,
such changes happen with relative frequency. 
Parties are entitled to subject the witness changing his testimony to
rigorous cross-examination at trial.
 
Stabler’s
prior testimony is not binding on Mitsubishi in this action. Zurich may use Stabler’s
prior testimony for the purposes of impeachment at trial, but this prior
testimony does not support summary adjudication.
 
Mitsubishi
has introduced evidence indicating that RIM was at fault for the Incident.  Accordingly, there are triable issues of fact
as to whether Mitsubishi has a duty to indemnify Zurich. Summary adjudication
is not appropriate here.
 
The
Court therefore denies summary adjudication on issues 1, 2, 3, 5, 6, and 7.
 
Affirmative Defense No. 30 (Standing)
 
The undisputed facts show that RIM was the agent of the
hotel ownership, the Elevator Agreement’s Customer. (UF 5, 7, 9.) Zurich, RIM’s
insurer, defended and indemnified RIM in the Underlying Action. (UF 14, 19.) 
 
“In the case of insurance, subrogation takes the form of an
insurer’s right to be put in the position of the insured in order to pursue
recovery from third parties legally responsible to the insured for a loss which
the insurer has both insured and paid.” (Interstate Fire & Casualty Ins.
Co. v. Cleveland Wrecking Co. (2010) 182 Cal.App.4th 23, 32.)
 
There is therefore no triable issue of fact that Zurich
therefore has standing, via subrogation of RIM’s right, to pursue remedies
against Mitsubishi to which RIM would be entitled under the Elevator Agreement.
 
Mitsubishi states that it does not dispute the motion on the
issue of standing in light of the Court’s March 21, 2024 order finding that Mitsubishi
was estopped from arguing that RIM was not a Customer under the Elevator
Agreement. (Mitsubishi’s Memo. P’s and A’s at p. 1 fn. 1)  Mitsubishi states that it intends to preserve
its right to appeal this issue. The Court notes that Mitsubishi has preserved
its position on this issue.
 
The Court grants summary adjudication on issues 4 and 8. 