  Case Number:  20STCV18935    Hearing Date:   September 24, 2024    Dept:  72  
SUPERIOR COURT OF CALIFORNIA
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES
 
DEPARTMENT 72
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 



 
DORIS PENICHE,
                                  Plaintiff,
  
         v.
 
 
CALIFORNIA HIGHWAY PATROL, et al.,
 
                                  Defendants.
 


 Case No: 20STCV18935
 
 
 
 
 
 Hearing Date:  September 24, 2024
 Calendar
  Number:  1




 


 



 
             Defendant Melissa Hammond (“Hammond”) moves
for judgment notwithstanding the verdict (“JNOV”) on the claims of Doris
Peniche (“Plaintiff”) for intentional infliction of emotional distress and
negligence.
 
            The Court
DENIES the motion.
 
Legal Standard
 
            Code of
Civil Procedure section 629 states that “[t]he court, before the expiration of
its power to rule on a motion for a new trial, either of its own motion, after
five days’ notice, or on motion of a party against whom a verdict has been
rendered, shall render judgment in favor of the aggrieved party notwithstanding
the verdict whenever a motion for a directed verdict for the aggrieved party
should have been granted had a previous motion been made.” (Code Civ. Proc. §
629.)
 
            A JNOV
motion ordinarily challenges whether the evidence was sufficient to prove the
claims or defenses asserted by the opposing party and now embodied in the
jury’s verdict. (Moore v. San Francisco (1970) 5 Cal.App.3d 728, 733-34;
see Martin v. Ideal Packing Co. (1957) 156 Cal.App.2d 232, 235 [a
JNOV motion is “in the nature of a demurrer to the evidence”].) It thus has the
same function as a motion for nonsuit or directed verdict, the only difference
being that the JNOV motion lies after a verdict for the opposing party has been
rendered. (Beavers v. Allstate Ins. Co. (1990) 225 Cal.App.3d 310, 327; CC-California
Plaza Assocs. v. Paller & Goldstein (1996) 51 Cal.App.4th 1042, 1050.)   
 
            All
evidence supporting the verdict is presumed true, so the issue is whether the
facts constitute a prima facie case or defense as a matter of law.  (Fountain
Valley Chateau Blanc Homeowner's Ass’n v. Department of Veterans Affairs
(1998) 67 Cal.App.4th 743, 750.) “The court may not weigh evidence, draw
inferences contrary to the verdict, or assess the credibility of witnesses. The
court must deny the motion if there is any substantial evidence to support the
verdict.” (Begnal v. Canfield & Assocs., Inc. (2000) 78 Cal.App.4th
66, 72.  
 
            A JNOV
motion is governed by the same rules that govern a motion for directed verdict
or nonsuit. (Hauter v. Zogarts (1975) 14 Cal.3d 104, 110; Rollenhagen
v. City of Orange (1981) 116 Cal.App.3d 414, 417 [disapproved on other
grounds in Brown v. Kelly Broadcasting Co. (1989) 48 Cal.3d 711, 738].)
Further, a JNOV motion “may be granted only if it appears from the evidence,
viewed in the light most favorable to the party securing the verdict, that
there is no substantial evidence in support.” (Sweatman v. Department of
Veterans Affairs (2001) 25 Cal.4th 62, 68; Wolf v. Walt Disney Pictures
& Television (2008) 162 Cal.App.4th 1107, 1137-38.) A JNOV in favor of
a defendant is proper “only where, disregarding conflicting evidence on behalf
of the defendants and giving to plaintiff's evidence all the value to which it
is legally entitled, therein indulging in every legitimate inference which may
be drawn from that evidence, the result is a determination that there is no
evidence of sufficient substantiality to support a verdict in favor of the
plaintiff.” (See Reynolds v. Wilson (1958) 51 Cal.2d 94,
99.)  
 
Jurisdiction to Rule on Motion
 
            A motion
for JNOV must be decided by the trial court within 75 days after the clerk’s
service of notice of entry of the judgment. (Code Civ. Proc. §§ 629(b), 659,
660(c); see Palmer v. GTE California, Inc. (2003) 30 Cal.4th 1265,
1277.)  
 
[Code
of Civil Procedure section 629] specifically limits a trial court’s power to
rule on the motion in the following ways: First, the trial court must enter j.
n. o. v. ‘before . . . expiration of its power to rule on a motion for a new
trial,’ otherwise the judgment is invalid.  Section 660 indicates that
‘the power of the court to rule on a motion for a new trial shall expire [75]
days from and after the mailing of notice of entry of judgment by the clerk of
the court . . .’ Second, on the trial court's own motion it can grant j. n. o.
v., but only after giving five days notice to the parties and only in
accordance with the procedure just noted.  Third, the trial court is
precluded from ruling on a motion for j. n. o. v. ‘until the expiration of the
time within which a motion for a new trial must be served and filed . . .’
which according to section 659 is 15 days ‘of the date of mailing notice of
entry of judgment . . .’    
 
(Sturgeon v. Leavitt (1979) 94 Cal.App.3d 957, 963
[decided before January 1, 2019, amendment extending time period for court to
rule on new trial motion to 75-day period].)  Thus, a trial court “can
grant j. n. o. v. so long as it acts before expiration of its power to rule on
a motion for a new trial, [75] days, and¿after expiration of the time within
which a motion for a new trial must be served and filed, 15 days.” (Id.
at 964.)
 
            Judgment
was entered in this case on July 17, 2024 and a corrected and amended judgment
was entered on July 18, 2024.  Plaintiff
provided notice of the judgment via email on August 6, 2024. (Certificate of
Mailing.) Even without additional time for notice, the Court may rule at any
time  until September 30, 2024. 
 
Discussion
 
            Plaintiff
prevailed against Hammond on claims for intentional infliction of emotional
distress and negligence.  Hammond seeks
judgment notwithstanding the verdict on these claims.  
 
Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress
 
            The
elements of intentional infliction of emotional distress are:  “(1) extreme and outrageous conduct by the
defendant with the intention of causing, or reckless disregard of the
probability of causing, emotional distress; (2) the plaintiff’s suffering
severe or extreme emotional distress; and (3) actual and proximate causation of
the emotional distress by the defendant’s outrageous conduct.”  (Kelley v. The Conco Companies (2011)
196 Cal.App.4th 191, 215.)
 
            Hammond
first argues that the jury’s finding in her favor on the issue of defamation
precludes a finding of intentional infliction of emotional distress.  This is not correct.  The jury was instructed on elements and
defenses of defamation law that are not pertinent to intentional infliction of
emotional distress, and the jury could have ruled for Hammond on defamation with
respect to these elements and defenses.  For
example, the jury instructions stated that Plaintiff had to prove by clear and
convincing evidence that Hammond knew that the statements were false or had
serious doubts about the truth of the statements.  The jury could have concluded that the
statements were false, but that Hammond sincerely believed them.  The jury was instructed that the statements
had to be fact and not opinion, and may have believed that the defamatory
aspects of the statements were made in a manner that implied that they were
Hammond’s opinions rather than fact. 
There are other potential ways the jury could have ruled in Hammond’s
favor on defamation that do not affect the other claims against Hammond.
 
            Hammond next
argues that no substantial evidence supports the elements of this claim because
Hammond’s conduct is merely office gossip and Hammond attempted to assure that
her colleague, Connie Guzman (“Guzman”) was in a private location when Hammond
shared the information.  Moreover, Hammond
argues that there was no substantial evidence of Plaintiff’s severe emotional
distress, and that any distress was not caused by Hammond’s actions.
 
            There was
sufficient evidence to support the claim. 
Based on Guzman’s testimony, the jury could have concluded that Hammond,
who was in a position of authority with respect to Plaintiff, violated the
privacy rules of the California Highway Patrol and viewed the pictures and
videos of Plaintiff having sex.  (See Guzman
Transcript at JNOV38:28-39:10.)  Hammond
then revealed this information to one of her subordinates at the California
Highway Patrol. She told this subordinate that the pictures and videos showed
Plaintiff having sex with her brother-in-law and that Plaintiff performed other
sex acts on several different men, even though this characterization of the photographs
and videos was not accurate.  Hammond did
this in a workplace environment where there was gossip between co-workers.  Hammond should have expected that Guzman
would share this information with others and Guzman in fact did.  The Court does not agree that it should weigh
the effect of Hammond trying to ensure that Guzman was alone as minimizing the
risk of disclosure; the jury could have interpreted this in many different
ways, including that Hammond was trying to emphasize the salacious nature of
what she was about to tell Guzman.  Hammond’s
conduct of viewing and sharing the information, and mischaracterizing what she
had seen, had absolutely no legitimate basis. 
As Guzman characterized it, the disclosure to Guzman “was a total
violation of someone’s life” and should not have been revealed to any of Plaintiff’s
co-workers.  The jury could have
concluded that Hammond acted out of spite given what she viewed as Plaintiff’s
insubordination with respect to the overtime policy.  In 2019, Guzman shared the information that
Hammond had disclosed with Plaintiff’s investigators who in turn shared it with
Plaintiff.  
 
While Hammond argues generally that Plaintiff’s distress was
not severe enough, Hammond does not provide the Court with any transcripts or
other specifics about the testimony that related to this issue.  The Court recalls the testimony of Plaintiff
and of Dr. Reading (none of which have been provided to the Court with this
motion) as providing sufficient basis for the severity of Plaintiff’s
distress.    
 
Negligence
 
            The
elements of negligence include:  “(a)
legal duty to use due care; (b) a breach of such legal duty; [and] (c) the
breach as the proximate or legal cause of the resulting injury.”  (Ladd v. County of San Mateo (1996) 12
Cal.4th 913, 917.)
 
            Hammond
argues that she owed no duty to prevent Plaintiff from suffering emotional
distress. She cites cases that state that there is no independent cause of
action for negligent infliction of emotional distress.  (See, e.g. Ess v. Eskaton Properties, Inc.
 (2002) 97 Cal.App.4th 120,
126.)  Plaintiff, however, did not make a
claim for negligent infliction of emotional distress against Hammond.  Instead, she asserted the more general claim
of negligence of the duty of care to avoid causing harm to others.  (See Cabral v. Ralphs Grocery Co. (2011)
51 Cal.4th 764, 771 [“The general rule in California is that ‘[e]veryone is
responsible . . . for an injury occasioned to another by his or her want of
ordinary care or skill in the management of his or her property or person . . .
’ (Civ. Code § 1714, subd. (a).”].)  Hammond
was a superior officer in possession of highly sensitive private information of
Plaintiff.  Hammond had a duty to use
ordinary care in the handling of Plaintiff’s private information to avoid
causing harm to Plaintiff.  Hammond has
cited no case supporting the proposition that Hammond lacked such a duty.
 
            The Court
concludes that there are no grounds to grant JNOV to Hammond on the negligence claim.
 