 Case Number:  23STCV16662    Hearing Date:   September 17, 2024    Dept:  37 HEARING DATE:                 Tuesday, September 17, 2024
CASE NUMBER:                   23STCV16662
CASE NAME:                        Anthony Wheaton v. Grand Hustle Records, LLC
TRIAL DATE:                        Not Set 
PROOF OF SERVICE:           OK

                                                                                                                                                            

MOVING PARTY:                 Defendant Roc Nation, LLC 
OPPOSING PARTY:             Plaintiff Anthony Wheaton
PROCEEDING:                      Demurrer
OPPOSITION:                        June 27, 2024
REPLY:                                  July
2, 2024
 
TENTATIVE:                         Defendant’s demurrer is sustained with 10
days leave to amend as to the first, second, third, and fourth causes of action
and without leave to amend as the fifth cause of action.  The court sets an OSC RE: Amended Complaint
for October 3, 2024, at 8:30 a.m. Plaintiff to give notice. 

                                                                                                                                                            

 
MOVING PARTY:                 Defendant
Grand Hustle Records, LLC
OPPOSING PARTY:             Plaintiff Anthony Wheaton
PROCEEDING:                      Demurrer
OPPOSITION:                        August 26, 2024
REPLY:                                  Not
filed.
 
TENTATIVE:                         Defendants’ demurrer is sustained with 10
days leave to amend as to the first, second, third, and fourth causes of action
and without leave to amend as the fifth cause of action. The court sets an OSC
RE: Amended Complaint for October 3, 2024, at 8:30 a.m. Plaintiff to give
notice.

 
Background

 
On July 18, 2023, Anthony Wheaton aka Sir Jinx ("Plaintiff")
filed a Complaint against Grand Hustle Records, LC (“Grand Hustle”); Roc
Nation, LC (“Roc Nation”), and Does 1 to 50. The Complaint alleges four causes
of action: (1) breach of contract, (2) breach of good faith and fair dealing,
(3) unjust enrichment, and (4) accounting.
On January 10, 2024, Defendant Roc Nation filed a demurrer
to Plaintiff's Complaint. On
March 27, 2024, the court sustained Roc Nation’s Demurrer with leave to amend
as to all causes of actions. 
On April 29, 2024, Plaintiff filed the operative First Amended
Complaint (“FAC”). The FAC alleges five causes of action: (1) conversion, (2)
unjust enrichment, (3) accounting, (4) unfair business practices, and (5)
breach of good faith and fair dealing. 
On May 30, 2024, Defendant Roc Nation filed a demurrer to
Plaintiff’s FAC. On July 3, 2024, Defendant Grand Hustle also filed a demurrer
to Plaintiff’s FAC. Both matters are now before the court. 
demurrer[1] to First Amended Complaint (“FAC”)
I.         Legal Standard
 
A.        Demurrer 
 
A demurrer is an objection to a pleading, the grounds for
which are apparent from either the face of the complaint or a matter of which
the court may take judicial notice. (CCP, § 430.30, subd. (a); see also Blank
v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311, 318.)¿“To survive a demurrer, the
complaint need only allege facts sufficient to state a cause of action; each
evidentiary fact that might eventually form part of the plaintiff’s proof need
not be alleged.”¿(C.A. v. William S. Hart Union High School Dist.
(2012) 53 Cal.4th 861, 872.)¿For
the purpose of testing the sufficiency of the
cause of action, the demurrer admits the truth of all material facts properly
pleaded.¿ (Aubry v. Tri-City Hospital Dist. (1992) 2 Cal.4th 962,
966-967.)¿A demurrer “does not admit contentions, deductions or conclusions of
fact or law.”¿(Daar v. Yellow Cab Co. (1967) 67 Cal.2d 695,
713.)¿¿ 
  
“Where the defect raised by a motion to strike or by demurrer
is reasonably capable of cure, leave to amend is routinely and liberally
granted to give the plaintiff a chance to cure the defect in question.” (CLD
Construction, Inc. v. City of San Ramon (2004) 120 Cal.App.4th 1141, 1146.)
The burden is on the complainant to show the Court that a pleading can be
amended successfully. (Goodman v. Kennedy (1976) 18 Cal.3d 335, 348.)¿¿¿ 
 
 
 
II.        Discussion 
 
Defendant Roc Nation demurs to the
five causes of action alleged in Plaintiff’s FAC because it fails to allege any
facts about Defendant Roc Nation, fails to state sufficient facts to allege any
of the causes of action, and improperly adds two new causes of action—conversion
and unjust enrichment. 
 
The FAC alleges that Plaintiff is
a musical producer who wrote and produced the song “Dope” for the Defendants.
(FAC, ¶ 12.) In 2016, Plaintiff registered the song “Dope” with Goon Squad
LLC and the FAC alleges that he engaged in discussions and negotiations
regarding a contractual relationship that never materialized. (FAC, ¶ 13.)

 
The FAC alleges that Plaintiff
discovered his song “Dope” being played throughout the music industry years
later. (FAC, ¶ 14.) The FAC alleges that the song “Dope” was subsequently
released by Universal Music Group and gave Plaintiff Anthony Wheaton aka Sir
Jinx, among others, writing credits. (FAC, ¶ 15.)
 
The FAC alleges that Defendant Roc
Nation failed to properly obtain the rights to use Plaintiff’s musical
compositions and that Defendants knew Plaintiff should have been properly
compensated yet elected not to do so. (FAC, ¶ 17.)
 
The FAC alleges that on
November 11, 2022, Plaintiff sent a letter to Defendant Roc Nation regarding
royalties. (FAC, ¶ 18.) The FAC further alleges that Plaintiff has
continued communication efforts but has not received any response or
compensation and has been significantly harmed as a result. (FAC, ¶ 19,
20, 21.) Finally, the FAC alleges this case is filed to “assert the financial damages
incurred due to the Defendants disregard and breach of contract.” (FAC,
¶ 22.)
 
A.             
First Cause of Action - Conversion
 
To plead a cause of action for
conversion, one must allege (1) the plaintiff’s ownership or right to
possession of personal property; (2) defendant’s disposition of the property
inconsistent with plaintiff’s rights; and (3) resulting damages. (Fremont
Indemnity Co. v. Fremont General Corp. (2007) 148 Cal.App.4th 97,
119.) “Money may be the subject of conversion if the claim involves a
specific, identifiable sum . . ..” (Welco Electronics, Inc. v. Mora (2014)
223 Cal.App.4th 202, 209.)  As the Court of Appeal has explained, “money
can only be treated as specific property subject to being converted when it is
‘identified as a specific thing.’” (PCO, Inc. v. Christensen, Miller, Fink,
Jacobs, Glaser, Weil & Shapiro, LLP (2007) 150 Cal. App. 4th 384, 395;
see also id. at p. 396 [“California cases permitting an action for
conversion of money typically involve those who have misappropriated,
commingled, or misapplied specific funds held for the benefit of others.”].)
 
First, Defendants collectively demur
to the conversion claim on the basis the FAC fails to allege what specific or
identifiable sum Defendants converted from Plaintiff. Defendants further assert
that Plaintiff fails to identify what possessory interest he had in the
specific sum converted given that Plaintiff fails to allege the existence of a
contract. 
Second, Defendants demur to the
conversion claim because it is a new cause of action and Plaintiff did not seek
leave to add a new cause of action. “Following an order sustaining a demurrer
or a motion for judgment on the pleadings with leave to amend, the plaintiff
may amend his or her complaint only as authorized by the court's order.
[Citation.] The plaintiff may not amend the complaint to add a new cause of
action without having obtained permission to do so unless the new cause of
action is within the scope of the order granting leave to amend.”  
(Zakk
v. Diesel (2019),
33 Cal.App.5th 431, 456 (Zakk).) 
Defendants assert that the conversion claim should be dismissed because it
was not included in the original complaint and its addition was not authorized
by the court. The court agrees. The court’s previous ruling granted leave to
amend as to (1) breach of contract, (2) breach of good faith and fair dealing,
(3) unjust enrichment, and (4) accounting but did not give Plaintiff leave to
add new causes of action. A conversion claim was not one of the four causes of
action included in the original Complaint, Plaintiff did not seek leave to add
a new cause of action, and the court did not give permission to add it to the
FAC. 
Moreover, Plaintiff’s opposition fails to explain how adding a conversion
claim was permissible and within the scope of amendment permitted by this
court’s prior order. (3/27/2024 Minute Order.)  “The granting of leave to amend after a
demurrer is sustained on one ground does not give the plaintiff a license to
add any possible cause of action that might not be subject to dismissal on that
ground. Otherwise, there would be virtually no limitation on amendments
following the sustaining of a demurrer.” (Zakk, supra, 33
Cal.App.5th at p. 456.) Lastly, Plaintiff fails to show that he can amend the
conversion claim to state the specific sum or an identifiable sum that was
converted by Defendants.
Since Plaintiff was not authorized
to amend the Complaint by adding a conversion claim and the conversion claim is
inadequately pled, the demurrer as to the first cause of action is sustained
with leave to amend. 
 
B.             
Second Cause of Action - Unjust
Enrichment 
 
“[T]here is no cause of action in California for unjust
enrichment. The phrase ‘Unjust Enrichment’ does not describe a theory of
recovery, but an effect: the result of a failure to make restitution under
circumstances where it is equitable to do so. [Citation] Unjust enrichment is
‘a general principle, underlying various legal doctrines and remedies, rather
than a remedy itself.’ [Citation.] It is synonymous with restitution.” (Melchior v.
New Line Cinema (2003) 106 Cal.App.4th 779, 793 [internal quotations
omitted].) While there is no cause of action in California labeled “unjust
enrichment”, an unjust enrichment claim can be made, and the remedy is grounded
in equitable principles of restitution. (See Sepanossian v. National Ready
Mix Company, Inc. (2023) 97 Cal.App.5th 192.) “Unjust enrichment is
generally an inapplicable basis for restitution where the parties have an
enforceable express contract, however, ‘restitution may be awarded in lieu of
breach of contract damages when the parties had an express contract but it was
procured by fraud or is unenforceable or ineffective for some reason,’ or
‘where the defendant obtained a benefit from the plaintiff by fraud, duress,
conversion, or similar conduct.’ ” (Durell v. Sharp Healthcare (2010)
183 Cal.App.4th 1350, 1370 (Durrell).) 
 
Defendants assert that the FAC does not plead any
allegation sufficient to
constitute fraud or the existence of an unenforceable or ineffective contract
between Defendants and Plaintiff. Further, Defendant Roc Nation states that Plaintiff continues to plead the
existence of an express contract between the Parties in support of its claim
for unjust enrichment. The FAC alleges the existence of a “label contract” and
a “breach of said contract.” (FAC, ¶ 10.) The FAC also refers to
this said contract when alleging that “Sir Jinx files this case to assert the
financial damages he incurred due to the Defendants disregard and breach of
contract.” (FAC, ¶ 22.) Because Plaintiff pleads the existence of a
label contract in the FAC, unjust enrichment can only be brought as a cause of
action if the FAC also alleged that the contract was procured by fraud or that
Defendant obtained a benefit via fraud, duress, conversion, or similar
conduct.  
 
Plaintiff’s opposition cites Durell
to argue that Defendant was unjustly enriched at the expense of Plaintiff due
to lack of compensation for the song “Dope.” Therefore, Plaintiff asserts he can
bring a claim for unjust enrichment in lieu of damages for breach of the label
contract. (6/27/2024 Opposition, at pp. 7-8.) The FAC alleges that Defendant
Roc Nation received financial benefits from the song “Dope” at the expense of
Plaintiff who has not received proper payment or royalties despite following
the terms of the “agreement.” (FAC, ¶ 39,40,41.) However, the FAC does not
allege any facts that show how Defendants obtained benefits under the express or
implied contract via fraud, duress, or conversion sufficient to support an
unjust enrichment claim. 
 
Therefore, Defendant’s demurrer
to the unjust enrichment claim is sustained with leave to amend. 
 
C.             
Third Cause of Action – Accounting

 
“A cause of action for accounting requires a showing of a
relationship between the plaintiff and the defendant, such as a fiduciary
relationship, that requires an accounting or a showing that the accounts are so
complicated they cannot be determined through an ordinary action at law.” (Fleet
v. Bank of America N.A. (2014) 229 Cal.App.4th 1403, 1413.)  “The right to an accounting can arise from
the possession by the defendant of money or property which, because of the
defendant’s relationship with the plaintiff, the defendant is obliged to
surrender.” (Teselle¿v. McLoughlin (2009) 173 Cal.App.4th 156,¿179-80 (Teselle).)
 
Defendants demur to the accounting claim on the basis
that the FAC does not allege a specific relationship between Defendant Roc
Nation and Plaintiff that requires an accounting. “A cause of action for
accounting requires a showing of a relationship between the plaintiff and the
defendant, such a fiduciary relationship[.]” (Fleet v. Bank of America N.A.
(2014) 229 Cal.App.4th 1403, 1413.) Defendants also assert that Plaintiff
cannot state both a claim for accounting and for conversion.  “An action
for accounting is not available where the plaintiff alleges the right to
recover a sum certain or a sum that can be made certain by calculation.
[Citation.]” (Teselle, supra¸ 173 Cal.App.4th at p. 179.) 
 
The FAC alleges that Defendants are in a “presumptive
relationship” with the Plaintiff “due to the conversion of a song produced by
Sir Jinx” and thus an accounting of monetary funds is owed by Defendants. (FAC,
¶ 49.) Additionally, the FAC also alleges that Plaintiff is unaware
of the profits made from the song “Dope” and that the defendants are receiving
an “undisclosed profit” that they have failed to reveal to Plaintiff. (FAC, ¶¶ 37,52.)
Even though the FAC sufficiently alleges that Defendant Roc Nation is in sole
possession of the money, the FAC fails to state how a “presumptive
relationship” is a fiduciary relationship that requires an accounting. Moreover,
Plaintiff
fails to cite case law showing that conversion of property creates a
relationship between the parties entitling Plaintiff to an accounting. The
FAC alleges a contractual relationship between Defendants and Plaintiff yet
neglects to allege how the terms of the contract required Defendants to provide
an accounting.
 
Because the FAC does not allege a
fiduciary relationship between Defendants
and Plaintiff that requires an accounting, Defendant’s demurrer is sustained
with leave to amend. 
 
D.             
Fourth Cause of Action - Unfair
Business Practices 
 
Business and Professions Code § 17200 (“UCL”) prohibits “any
unlawful, unfair or fraudulent business act or practice.” (Bus. &
Prof. Code, § 17200; see Clark v. Superior Court (2010) 50
Cal.4th 605, 610.) To plead this statutory claim, the pleadings must state with
reasonable particularity the facts supporting the statutory elements of the
violation. (Khoury v. Maly's of California, Inc. (1993) 14
Cal.App.4th 612, 619.)
 
“An unlawful business practice or act is an act or practice,
committed pursuant to business activity, that is at the same time forbidden by
law.” (Klein v. Earth Elements, Inc. (1997) 59 Cal.App.4th 965, 969.) “A
business practice is unfair within the meaning of the UCL if it violates
established public policy or if it is immoral, unethical, oppressive or
unscrupulous and causes injury to consumers which outweighs its benefits.” (McKell
v. Washington Mutual, Inc. (2006) 142 Cal.App.4th 1457, 1473.) Lastly, a
fraudulent business practice claim under section 17200 “is not based upon proof
of the common law tort of deceit or deception, but is instead premised on
whether the public is likely to be deceived.” (Pastoria v. Nationwide Ins.
(2003) 112 Cal.App.4th 1490, 1499.)
“Following an order sustaining a demurrer or a motion for judgment on the
pleadings with leave to amend, the plaintiff may amend his or her complaint
only as authorized by the court's order. [Citation.] The plaintiff may not
amend the complaint to add a new cause of action without having obtained
permission to do so unless the new cause of action is within the scope of the
order granting leave to amend.” (Zakk, supra, 33 Cal.App.5th
at p. 456.) 
Defendants assert that the claim for unfair business
practices should be dismissed because it was not included in the original Complaint
and its addition in the FAC was not authorized by the court. The court agrees. The
court also finds that Plaintiff failed to allege that Defendants engaged in
unlawful, unfair, or fraudulent business practices because the FAC contains no facts
stating under what specific provisions of the “label contract” gave Plaintiff ownership of the song and entitled
him to compensation and royalties by Defendants. Without facts showing ownership
to his “intellectual property” under the contract, Plaintiff’s claims that
Defendants failed to obtain the right to use his intellectual property, failed
to compensate him, and withheld monies are conclusory and the UCL claim fails. “These
conclusionary allegations, which allege no specific acts, are insufficient to
survive demurrer.” (Bagatti v. Department of Rehabilitation (2002) 97
Cal.App.4th 344, 366, fn. 8.
Since Plaintiff was not authorized to amend the FAC by
adding a UCL claim and the UCL claim is inadequately pled, the demurrer as to
the fourth cause of action is sustained with leave to amend.
E.             
Fifth Cause of Action - Breach of
the Implied Covenant of Good Faith and Fair Dealing 
 
“[A] tortious breach of contract .
. . may be found when (1) the breach is accompanied by a traditional common law
tort, such as fraud or conversion; (2) the means used to breach the contract
are tortious, involving deceit or undue coercion; or (3) one party
intentionally breaches the contract intending or knowing that such a breach
will cause severe, unmitigable harm in the form of mental anguish, personal
hardship, or substantial consequential damages.” (Robinson Helicopter Co.
Inc. v. Dana Corp. (2004) 34 Cal.4th 979, 990.)
 
Defendant Roc
Nation asserts that the FAC makes a conclusory allegation by stating that Defendants,
collectively, “breached the implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing in
the Agreement” (FAC,
¶ 64.) The court agrees. “It is settled law that
a pleading must allege facts and not conclusions, and that material facts must
be alleged directly and not by way of recital.” (Ankeny v. Lockheed Missiles
and Space Co. (1979) 88 Cal.App.3d 531, 537.) “The scope of conduct prohibited by the implied covenant
depends on the purposes and express terms of the contract.” (Digerati Holdings, LLC v. Young Money Entertainment, LLC
(2011) 194 Cal.App.4th 873, 885.) Plaintiff asserts the existence of a contract without providing
sufficient facts to allege a contract between Roc Nation and Plaintiff and the
terms of said contract sufficient to show that Defendants breached the implied
covenant.  Moreover, the FAC also negates the existence
of a contractual relationship between Plaintiff and Defendants: 
 
·      
“Defendants engaged in discussions and
negotiations regarding entering a contractual relationship. However, this never
materialized.” (FAC, ¶ 13.) 
 
·      
“Defendants, and each of them, acted in
bad faith because it failed to offer an agreement to Plaintiff[.]” (FAC, ¶ 65.)

 
Defendant Grand Hustle similarly demurs
to the FAC on the basis that a claim for breach of the implied covenant of good
faith and fair dealing does not exist absent a claim for breach of contract. “[T]he
implied covenant is limited to assuring compliance with the express terms of
the contract, and cannot be extended to create obligations not contemplated in
the contract.” (Racine & Laramie, Ltd. v. Department of Parks &
Recreation (1992) 11 Cal.App.4th 1026, 1032.) Without sufficient facts to
support the existence of a contract, even an implied one, between the parties,
the implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing cannot be read into a
nonexistent contract. (Pugh v. See's Candies, Inc. (1988) 203 Cal.App.3d
743, 763 [ “under his tort theory for breach of the covenant of good faith and
fair dealing, he had the burden of proving (1) the existence of an implied
contract”].)


In opposition to Grand Hustle’s demurrer, Plaintiff asserts he will
remove the claim for breach of the implied covenant of good faith and fair
dealing from the complaint. (8/26/2024 Opposition, at p. 15-16.) Moreover,
Plaintiff fails to plead facts to show that an implied-in-fact contract existed
between Plaintiff and the parties. 
Therefore, Defendants’ demurrer to the fifth cause of action
is sustained without leave to amend. 
Conclusion
 
Defendants’ demurrer is sustained
with 10 days leave to amend as to the first, second, third, and fourth causes
of action and without leave to amend as the fifth cause of action. The court
sets an OSC RE: Amended Complaint for October 3, 2024, at 8:30 a.m. Plaintiff to
give notice.
 


