  Case Number:  22STCV11349    Hearing Date:   July 3, 2024    Dept:  49 People of the State of California, ex rel., Allstate Insurance Company v. Jaklin Benji, et al.DEFENDANTS JAKLIN BENJI, MATHEW RASHIDI, MICHAEL RASHIDI, PRECISE MRI CORP. AND YOKHEVET, LLC’S MOTION TO QUASH 19 THIRD-PARTY SUBPOENAS ISSUED ON MAY 2, 2024 MOVING PARTY: Defendants Jaklin Benji, Mathew Rashidi, Michael Rashidi, Precise MRI Corp., and Yokhevet, LLCRESPONDING PARTY(S): People of the State of California, ex rel., Allstate Insurance CompanySTATEMENT OF MATERIAL FACTS AND/OR PROCEEDINGS: Plaintiff Allstate Insurance Company brings this action on behalf of itself and the State of California under the California Insurance Frauds Prevention Act and the Unfair Competition Law. Plaintiff alleges that Defendants Jaklin Benji, Mathew Rashidi, Michael Rashidi, Precise MRI Corp., and Yokhevet, LLC—who are not licensed medical professionals—acted as “MRI brokers” to connect injured persons with legitimate MRI facilities. Defendants would pay the MRI facilities a fee for the MRI services, and then turn around and bill insurers like Allstate at a substantial markup, falsely representing that they had conducted the MRI services themselves. Plaintiff alleges that Defendant radiologists Ranon Udkoff, M.D. and Stuart E. Strausberg, D.O. aided this scheme by conducting or reviewing MRIs, but permitting the other unlicensed Defendants to pass-off the services as their own at a substantial upcharge. Plaintiff brings causes of action against all Defendants for (1) violation of California Insurance Code section 1871.7 and (2) violation of the UCL.Defendants Jaklin Benji, Mathew Rashidi, Michael Rashidi, Precise MRI Corp., and Yokhevet, LLC, move to quash 19 third party subpoenas. Plaintiffs opposed. TENTATIVE RULING:Defendants’ Motion to Quash is DENIED. The third parties are ordered to turn over all documents consistent with Request 3 of the Subpoenas.  Plaintiffs are ordered to give notice.DISCUSSION:Motion to QuashA. Legal StandardA court may quash a subpoena entirely or partially, and issue an order to protect parties, witnesses or consumers from unreasonable or oppressive demands including violations of privacy. (Code Civ. Proc., § 1987.1.) A motion to quash the production of documents or tangible things requires a separate statement. (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.13459(a)(5).)  “[U]pon motion reasonably made by the party, judges may rule upon motions for quashing, modifying or compelling compliance with, subpoenas.”  (Lee v. Swansboro Country Property Owners Ass'n (2007) 151 Cal.App.4th 575, 582-583.)B. Analysis1. BackgroundDefendants move to quash deposition subpoenas issued to the law firms of Akiva Niamehr, Bergener Mirejovsky, The Law Offices of Daniel Kim, Dayan Houman APC, Ghozland Law Firm, Kenneth Klein, Esq., Koshkaryan Law Group, M&Y Personal Injury Lawyers, M.R. Parker Law, and The Dominguez Firm (“the Law Firm subpoenas”). Defendants also move to quash deposition subpoenas issued to Broadway Radiology, Dedicated Medical Imaging, Family Radiology, Montclair Open MRI, MRI Imaging Center of Fresno, North West Imaging, Onsyte Imaging, SimonMed, and SoCal Radiology (“the Radiology Subpoenas”).Defendants contend all subpoenas should be quashed because they were issued for the improper purpose of harassing the nineteen third-party deponents, request consumer information without first satisfying California Code of Civil Procedure section 1985.3’s consumer notice requirements,  request information that is not likely to lead to the discovery of relevant information and are impermissibly overbroad.All 19 Subpoenas are identical and seek the following:  REQUEST NO. 1:ALL iterations of ALL AGREEMENTS (including ALL addendums and other written modifications to such AGREEMENTS) in place at any time between May 1, 2014 and today between YOU and any of the following PERSONS RELATING TO providing DIAGNOSTIC IMAGING work, the referral of patients or clients, or the marketing of services:(1) PRECISE MRI(2) YOKHEVET(3) Jaklin Benji(4) Michael Rashidi(5) Mathew RashidiREQUEST NO. 2:ALL COMMUNICATIONS YOU exchanged with any of the following PERSONS between May 1, 2014 and today RELATING TO DIAGNOSTIC IMAGING services:1) PRECISE MRI(2) YOKHEVET(3) Jaklin Benji(4) Michael Rashidi(5) Mathew RashidiREQUEST NO. 3:ALL receipts, ledgers, copies of deposited checks, and other DOCUMENTS reflecting any payments YOU exchanged with any of the following PERSONS between May 1, 2014 and today RELATING TO DIAGNOSTIC IMAGING services:1) PRECISE MRI(2) YOKHEVET(3) Jaklin Benji(4) Michael Rashidi(5) Mathew RashidiREQUEST NO. 4:ALL DOCUMENTS RELATING TO promotional or marketing materials that YOU received from the following PERSONS:1) PRECISE MRI(2) YOKHEVET(3) Jaklin Benji(4) Michael Rashidi(5) Mathew Rashidi (Kroll Decl. 8, Exhs. D & E.)Each category includes additional language stating that “[t]his request does not request the records of any particular client or any records that would require deletion of information which would in any way identify any client, and any such records should be withheld.” (Id.) Each deposition subpoena also contains a “Notice to Consumer” addressed only to the individual Defendants—but not to the law firm clients or radiology center patients.Following the filing of this motion, the parties resolved the dispute as to categories 1, 2, and 4, as well as category 3 as it pertains to the law firms. Thus, the only issue remaining is the validity of category 3 as it pertains to the MRI imaging facilities. 2. AnalysisIn essence, Plaintiff seeks all documents reflecting any payments exchanged between Defendants and the imaging facilities over the last 10-years. In this case, Plaintiff alleges a scheme by Defendant Benji, the Rashidis, and the entities they controlled to defraud insurance companies by billing for MRI services that Defendants themselves did not (and legally could not) provide. (FAC ¶¶ 54-57.) The documents sought in category 3 are plainly relevant to the issues raised in the complaint and are not overbroad. Evidence is relevant if it “ha[s] any tendency in reason to prove or disprove any disputed fact that is of consequence to the determination of the action.” (Evid. Code § 210.)  “[A]ny party may obtain discovery regarding any matter, not privileged, that is relevant to the subject matter involved in the pending action or to the determination of any motion made in that action, if the matter either is itself admissible in evidence or appears reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence.”  (CCP § 2017.010; Davies v. Superior Court (1984) 36 Cal.3d 291, 301 [“discovery is not limited to admissible evidence”].) As to the privacy objections, “[t]he party asserting a privacy right must establish a legally protected privacy interest, an objectively reasonable expectation of privacy in the given circumstances, and a threatened intrusion that is serious. [Citation.] The party seeking information may raise in response whatever legitimate and important countervailing interests disclosure serves, while the party seeking protection may identify feasible alternatives that serve the same interests or protective measures that would diminish the loss of privacy. A court must then balance these competing considerations.” (Williams v. Superior Ct. (2017) 3 Cal. 5th 531, 552.)Here, when balancing the parties’ privacy interests against Plaintiff’s interest in discovering documents that are particularly relevant to its claims, this court find’s the balance shifts in favor of disclosure here. While the parties have a recognized privacy interest in their financial records, the categories sought here are relevant and not overbroad in light of the circumstances and allegations in the FAC.This conclusion is consistent with the legislature’s “very liberal and flexible standard of relevancy,” such that any “doubts as to relevance should generally be resolved in favor of permitting discovery.” (Williams, supra, 3 Cal. 5th at 542.)Accordingly, Defendants’ Motion to Quash is DENIED. The third parties are ordered to turn over all documents consistent with Request 3 of the Subpoenas.  C. SanctionsIn making an order pursuant to California Code of Civil Procedure section 1987.1, “the court may in its discretion award the amount of the reasonable expenses incurred in making or opposing the motion, including reasonable attorney's fees, if the court finds the motion was made or opposed in bad faith or without substantial justification or that one or more of the requirements of the subpoena was oppressive.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 1987.2, subd. (a).)The Court declines to award expenses as the Motion was not made or opposed in bad faith or without substantial justification.Plaintiffs are ordered to give notice.IT IS SO ORDERED.Dated:   July 03, 2024 ___________________________________ Randolph M. Hammock Judge of the Superior Court Any party may submit on the tentative ruling by contacting the courtroom via email at Smcdept49@lacourt.org by no later than 4:00 p.m. the day before the hearing.  All interested parties must be copied on the email.  It should be noted that if you submit on a tentative ruling the court will still conduct a hearing if any party appears. By submitting on the tentative you have, in essence, waived your right to be present at the hearing, and you should be aware that the court may not adopt the tentative, and may issue an order which modifies the tentative ruling in whole or in part.