  Case Number:  21SMCV01053    Hearing Date:   March 7, 2024    Dept:  I This is a motion for a protective order.  Plaintiff filed a breach of the warranty of
habitability case against defendant. 
Defendant seeks a protective order involving her deposition.  Plaintiff opposes.   
The gist of the motion is that defendant is mentally and
physically unable to sit for her deposition. 
She therefore seeks to have the deposition done by way of written
questions or to go by way of one hour sessions, or both.  The principal justification for the motion is
a purported lack of mental capacity, which defendant asserts was demonstrated
during the first session of her deposition, as well as a doctor’s note.  In opposition, plaintiff contended that the
deposition demonstrated a lack of recall, but not enough to warrant a
protective order.  And (understandably)
plaintiff does not want the deposition to go by the cumbersome and
time-consuming way of written questions. 
The court is no fan of written questions, nor would it address the
problem.  A deposition on written
question is not an interrogatory.  An
interrogatory is a written question to which the responding party has 30 days
to answer and to which the responding party is presumed to do a reasonable
investigation in order to be able to answer.  The responding party is entitled to the
assistance of counsel in responding to the interrogatory.  A deposition by written questions looks a lot
like a normal deposition.  The difference
is that instead of opposing counsel asking the questions, the deposition
officer asks the questions—which have been written out by opposing
counsel.  The witness has no early look
at the questions unless the party taking the deposition wants to forward the
questions.  (Counsel for the witness will
see them because they must be included in the notice.  That is followed 30 days later by
cross-examination question, 15 days later by re-direct from the deposing party,
and 15 days later by final questions from the witness’ counsel.  That means that if the court were to go that
way, the deposition would be held the week before trial and in one hour
blocks.  That is, frankly, not even a
rational suggestion by the defense.)  The
witness is expected to answer the questions on the spot.  The witness cannot take a break and consult
with others or investigate.  Its use is
therefore somewhat minimal.  It is
helpful in countries that limit depositions—they might allow a deposition on
written question but not a regular deposition. 
It made a fair amount of sense in the pre-Zoom days, where travel could
be difficult and counsel might save a lot of money by proceeding in such a
fashion rather than by traveling to a distant locale.  It works where the questions are very limited
in nature—like those that might be asked of a custodian of records.  It was never designed to be used routinely,
and it is a poor substitute for a party’s deposition.  And if a party lacks the mental ability to go
forward with a regular deposition, going forward with a deposition on written
questions will not solve that problem.
A more likely order would be to limit the length of the
deposition.  For example, to require
breaks every hour or so.  That would
work, although the proposed one hour a day makes for a very long deposition and
one that would be hard to complete given the May 2024 trial date.
In the opposition, defendant (through counsel) offered not
to testify in return for not being further deposed.  The court viewed that as a viable
solution.  And frankly, the court is
somewhat puzzled as to why plaintiff would not jump at the chance.  But that said, plaintiff rejected the
offer.  The court has some concern that
plaintiff’s motive is not truly to get information but rather to harass
defendant, for the court cannot fathom why plaintiff would not otherwise agree
that if defendant won’t testify, then defendant won’t be deposed.
Doctor Kim provided a doctor’s note stating that plaintiff’s
medical condition meant that she was “not able to perform new and complicated
tasks such as serving on jury duty, attending court or subpoena or
deposition.”  He advised that she receive
any communications in writing and that she be allowed to respond in
writing.  Of course, that note is
inadmissible hearsay—it is not in the form of a declaration.  If, however, defendant will produce that same
opinion in the form of a declaration, the court would be inclined to GRANT the
motion for a protective order.  The
deposition will then proceed in one hour sessions—no more than an hour a
day—which is what defendant proposed. 
That said, even if the deposition goes forward, it is far from clear to
the court whether defendant will be allowed to testify.  The medical bar on “attending court” would
seem to preclude testifying.  Further,
the reasons given include “cognitive impairment with poor memory” although
there were physical ailments as well.  Of
course, the court will entertain all reasonable accommodations, but it might be
that this witness just cannot provide reliable testimony.  The court would have ended the deposition
entirely had defendant been willing to agree not to testify as a witness.  Defendant also claims that the prior
deposition transcript reveals defendant’s incapacity.  While the part to which defendant cites is
troubling, other parts of the transcript are less so (and the court has
reviewed the entire transcript).  The
court cannot say, on this record, that defendant is incapacitated or unable to
be deposed if the sessions are short.
Defendant has 5 court days to provide the doctor’s note in
the form of a declaration under penalty of perjury.  Absent that, the court has no evidentiary
basis to grant the motion and the motion must be DENIED.  If the declaration is provided (and it need
say no more than did the note), then the motion will be GRANTED in the sense
that the deposition will go from day to day (weekends and holidays excepted)
until complete in one hour blocks starting 10 court days from today.  If plaintiff agrees to defendant’s offer not
to call defendant as a witness or offer defendant’s testimony, the court will
GRANT the motion by terminating the deposition forthwith.