 Case Number:  21STCV18818    Hearing Date:   March 22, 2024    Dept:  27 ¿ 
SUPERIOR
COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA¿¿¿ 
FOR
THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT   
\   



DEWYINE ROSS,¿¿ 
¿ 
Plaintiff,¿¿ 
vs.¿¿ 
¿¿ 
Los Angeles County Metropolitan Transportation
  Authority et al 
¿¿ 
Defendant.¿¿ 


)  
)  
)  
)  
)  
)  
)  
)
  )
  )¿
  )¿ 


CASE NO.: 21STCV18818¿ 
¿¿ 
[TENTATIVE] Ruling re Defendant Dewyine Ross’s
  Application of Good Faith Settlement 
¿¿ 
Hon. Lee S. Arian¿ 
Dept. 27¿ 
March 22, 2023¿ 
1:30 p.m.¿¿¿ 



¿ 
RULING: 
 
Defendant Dewyine Ross’s Application of
Good Faith Settlement is DENIED.
 
Background
 
On May 19, 2021,
Plaintiff filed the present complaint, alleging Defendant Dewyine Ross crashed
into a Los Angeles County Metropolitan Transportation Authority bus. Plaintiff
Elvis Presley was a passenger on the LACMTA bus. On November 6, 2023, Plaintiff
settled with Defendant Dewyine Ross for $15,000. Defendant LA County
Metropolitan Transportation Authority and Richard Walker contest the
application, arguing the amount is grossly disproportionate to the tortfeasor's
proportionate share of liability. However, neither party provided a rough
approximation of Plaintiff’s total recovery and the settlor’s proportionate
liability.
 
Legal Standard
 
CCP section 877.6(a)(1) provides that “[a]ny
party to an action wherein it is alleged that two or more parties are joint
tortfeasors or co-obligors on a contract debt shall be entitled to a hearing on
the issue of the good faith of a settlement entered into by the plaintiff . . .
and one or more alleged tortfeasors or co-obligors . . . .”¿ (Code. Civ. Proc., § 877.6(a)(1).)¿ “A determination by the court that the settlement was made in good
faith shall bar any other joint tortfeasor or co-obligor from any further
claims against the settling tortfeasor or co-obligor for equitable comparative
contribution, or partial or comparative indemnity, based on comparative
negligence or comparative fault.”¿ (Id.,
§ 877.6(c).)¿ Although a determination that a settlement
was in good faith does not discharge any other party from liability, “it shall
reduce the claims against the others in the amount stipulated” by the
settlement.¿ (Id., § 877(a).)¿¿ 
¿¿ 
Factors to consider in determining if a
settlement was made in good faith include “a rough approximation of plaintiffs’
total recovery and the settlor’s proportionate liability, the amount paid in
settlement, the allocation of settlement proceeds among plaintiffs, and a
recognition that a settlor should pay less in settlement than he would if he
were found liable after a trial.”¿ (Tech-Bilt,
Inc. v. Woodward-Clyde & Associates (1985) 38 Cal.3d 488, 499.)¿ “Other relevant considerations include the financial conditions
and insurance policy limits of settling defendants, as well as the existence of
collusion, fraud, or tortious conduct aimed to injure the interests of
nonsettling defendants.”¿ (Id.)¿¿ 
¿¿ 
The evaluation of whether a settlement was
made in good faith is required to “be made on the basis of information
available at the time of settlement.”¿ (Tech-Bilt,
Inc. v. Woodward-Clyde & Associates (1985) 38 Cal.3d 488, 499.)¿ “[A] court not only looks at the alleged tortfeasor’s potential
liability to the plaintiff, but it must also consider the culpability of the
tortfeasor vis-à-vis other parties alleged to be responsible for the same
injury.”¿ (TSI Seismic Tenant Space, Inc. v.
Superior Court (2007) 149 Cal.App.4th 159, 166.)¿ “Potential liability for indemnity to a nonsettling defendant is
an important consideration for the trial court in determining whether to
approve a settlement by an alleged tortfeasor.”¿ (Id.)¿¿ 
¿¿ 
Where a non-settling defendant contests a good faith
settlement application, the moving party must make a sufficient showing of all
the Tech-Bilt factors. (Weil & Brown at § 12:872 citing City of
Grand Terrace v. Superior Court (Boyter) (1987) 192 Cal.App.3d 1251, 1261.)
Once
there has been a sufficient showing, “the party asserting the lack of good faith
shall have the burden of proof.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 877.6(d).)  The party asserting the lack of good faith
can establish that the proposed settlement was not a settlement made in good
faith by showing the settlement is so far “out of the ballpark” in relation to
the Tech-Bilt factors as to be inconsistent with the equitable
objectives of the statute.  (Tech-Bilt, Inc.,
supra, 38 Cal.3d at 499-500.) 
Analysis
In the motion or reply, the settling parties
failed to provide a rough approximation of Plaintiff’s total recovery and the
settlor’s proportionate liability, a crucial Tech-Bilt factor. Defendant
MTA disputes the settlement on the grounds that it is grossly disproportionate
to the tortfeasor's liability share.  Without
an approximation of Plaintiff’s total recovery and the settlor’s proportionate
liability, the Court cannot determine if the settlement is indeed grossly
disproportionate. Therefore, the motion is DENIED without prejudice.
 
PLEASE TAKE NOTICE:    
 
·        
If a party intends to submit on this tentative ruling,¿the party must send an email to
the court at¿sscdept27@lacourt.org¿with the Subject line “SUBMIT”
followed by the case number.¿ The body of the email must include the hearing date
and time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the party
submitting.¿¿¿¿¿ 
 
·        
Unless all parties submit by email to this
tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or
in person for oral argument.          You should assume that others may
appear at the hearing to argue.      
 
·        
If the parties neither submit nor appear at hearing,
the Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the tentative ruling as the
order of the Court.¿ After the Court has issued a tentative ruling, the
Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion without leave.¿¿¿ 
 
 
 