 Case Number:  22STCV28122    Hearing Date:   March 22, 2024    Dept:  27 ¿ 
SUPERIOR
COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA¿¿¿ 
FOR
THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT¿¿ 
 
¿¿ 



MICHAEL WILLIAM WILSON,
¿ 
Plaintiff,¿¿ 
vs.¿¿ 
¿¿ 
CLAYTON DAMIAN FISCHER, et
  al. 
¿¿ 
Defendant.¿¿ 


) 
) 
) 
) 
) 
)
)   
)
)
  )
  )¿
  )¿ 


22STCV28122
 
[TENTATIVE] Ruling re Plaintiff’s Motion for Leave to
  Conduct Financial Discovery on Defendants Clayton Damian Fischer and Southwark
  Metal Manufacturing
¿¿ 
Hon. Lee S. Arian¿ 
Dept. 27¿ 
March 22, 2023¿ 
1:30 p.m.¿¿¿ 



¿ 
RULING: 
 
Plaintiff’s
Motions for Leave to Conduct Financial Discovery on Defendants Clayton Damian
Fischer and Southwark Metal Manufacturing Are DENIED.
 
 
Background
 
On August 29, 2022, Plaintiff
filed an auto collision complaint alleging that Defendant Clayton Damian
Fischer was driving under the influence when he crashed into Plaintiff. At the
time of the collision, Fischer was working within the course and scope of his
employment with Co-Defendant Southwark Metal Manufacturing. Southwark was allegedly
aware of Fischer’s drunk driving yet permitted him to drive the company car
while under the influence. Plaintiff now seeks the Court's permission to
conduct financial discovery on both Defendant Fischer and Defendant Southwark.[1]
 
Legal Standard
 
Civil
Code section 3295(c) prohibits pretrial discovery by a plaintiff with respect
to the financial condition of defendants absent a court order.  “Upon
motion by the plaintiff supported by appropriate affidavits and after a
hearing, if the court deems a hearing to be necessary, the court may at any
time enter an order permitting the discovery otherwise prohibited by this
subdivision if the court finds, on the basis of the supporting and opposing
affidavits presented, that the plaintiff has established that there is a substantial
probability that the plaintiff will prevail on the claim pursuant to Section
3294.  Such order shall not be considered to be a determination on the
merits of the claim or any defense thereto and shall not be given in evidence
or referred to at the trial.”  (Civ. Code, § 3295, subd. (c).)   
 
“A trial court
considering a motion to permit discovery of a defendant’s financial condition
must weigh the evidence submitted in support of and in opposition to the motion
and determine whether the plaintiff has established a ‘substantial probability’
(Civ. Code, § 3295, subd. (c)) of prevailing on a claim for punitive
damages.  [Citation.]  In this context, a ‘substantial probability’
of prevailing on a claim for punitive damages means that it is ‘very likely’
that the plaintiff will prevail on such a claim or there is ‘ “a strong
likelihood ” ’ that the plaintiff will prevail on such a claim. 
[Citation.]”  (Kerner v. Superior Court (2012) 206 Cal.App.4th 84,
120 (Kerner).)   
 
Punitive damages may be imposed where it is proven by clear
and convincing evidence that the defendant has been guilty of oppression,
fraud, or malice. (Civ. Code § 3294, subd. (a).)¿ “Malice’ means conduct which is intended by the defendant to
cause injury to the plaintiff or despicable conduct which is carried on by the
defendant with a willful and conscious disregard of the rights or safety of
others.” (Civil Code section 3294 (c)(1).) Under the statute, malice does not
require actual intent to harm. Conscious disregard for the safety of another
may be sufficient where the defendant is aware of the probable dangerous
consequences of his or her conduct and he or she willfully or intentionally
fails to avoid such consequences. (Pfeifer v.John Crane, Inc. (2013) 220
Cal.App.4th 1270, 1299.) ‘Despicable’ is a powerful term that refers to
circumstances that are ‘base,’ ‘vile,’ or ‘contemptible.’ (College Hospital,
Inc. v. Superior Court (1994) 8 Cal.4th 704, 725.)¿¿ 
In
Dawes v. Superior Court (1980) 111 Cal.App.3d 82, 89, the court held
that driving while intoxicated does not always give rise to a claim for
punitive damages: “[W]e do not agree that the risk created generally by one who
becomes intoxicated and decides nevertheless to drive a vehicle to the public
streets is the same as the risk created by an intoxicated driver’s decision to
zigzag in and out of traffic at 65 miles per hour in a crowded beach recreation
area at 1:30 in the afternoon on a Sunday in June.  The risk of injury to
others from ordinary driving while intoxicated is certainly foreseeable, but it
is not necessarily probable.” Dawes v. Superior Court (1980) 111
Cal.App.3d 82, 89
 
The
Dawes court went on to note, “Justice Franson aptly noted the
distinction in his article on punitive damages in vehicle accident cases:
‘Allegations of intoxication, excessive speed, driving with defective equipment
or the running of a stop signal, without more, do not state a cause of action
for punitive damages.  [Par.]  On the other hand, if the facts show
that the defendant intentionally drove his vehicle at a high speed into an
intersection crowded with pedestrians, or if he drove at a high speed through a
crowded residential area where children were playing in the street, a
legitimate inference of actual malice perhaps could arise.  This would be
particularly true if the defendant had not been drinking, or, if drinking, he
was not under the influence to the point where he was incapable of being aware
of the situation confronting him.  Under these circumstances, it
reasonably might be said that the defendant acted in such an outrageous and
reprehensible manner that the jury could infer that he knowingly disregarded
the substantial certainty of injury to others.”  (Id. at
90.)   
 
Evidentiary Ruling
Motion to Conduct Financial Discovery
Against Defendant Fischer: Defendant's objection No. 4 is sustained on the grounds of
relevance and prejudice. Other objections are overruled.
 
Motion to Conduct Financial
Discovery Against Defendant Southwark: Defendant's objections 1-5 are
sustained due to a lack of foundation. Other objections are overruled.
 
Analysis
 
Punitive
Damages Re Fischer
 
The
Court reviewed the evidence provided by Plaintiff relating to Defendant Clayton
Fischer’s alleged malice and notes that it all relates to the contention that
Fischer was driving under the influence of alcohol: police report showing that Fischer
was driving under the influence, Fischer pleading to a DUI, and Fischer’s
deposition that he drank 4 cocktails sometime before the incident, etc..
However, allegations of intoxication… without more,
do not state a cause of action for punitive damages. ' (Dawes
v. Superior Court (1980) 111 Cal.App.3d 82, 90.)

Plaintiff failed to show other
circumstances, such as Fischer intentionally or willfully driving at high speed
through a crowded residential area where children were playing in the street,
to establish malice. “This would be particularly true
if the defendant had not been drinking, or, if drinking, he was not under the
influence to the point where he was incapable of being aware of the situation
confronting him.”  (Id. at 90.)  The
fact that Fischer was drinking actually undermines Plaintiff's argument for
malice, as it is not evident if Fischer was aware of his surroundings to the
degree necessary for a finding of willfulness.
Again,
the evidence provided solely pertains to Fischer's driving under the influence.
Plaintiff did not present evidence to show that Fischer engaged in conduct
greater than that such that one could deem it despicable, as that term is
understood under the law. 
 
Punitve Damages Re
Southwark
Plaintiff contends
he is substantially likely to be awarded punitive damages against Southwark based
in the first instance on the conduct of Fischer and then, relatedly Southwark’s
related conduct.  As noted above, the
Court is not convinced the evidence is sufficient as to Fischer for that
purpose.  Then, the only evidence
presented for punitive damages against Southwark beyond counsel's declaration
and allegations in the complaint regarding Southwark's malice, is Defendant
Fischer’s deposition where he states that as long as he was contributing a million
dollars a month to Southwark, they never enforced any safety protocols
regarding driving safety with him. The Court certainly perceives that to be bad
conduct, it true.  But, the evidence does
not demonstrate with substantial certainty that Southwark was aware of
Fischer's drunk driving.  
It
is the moving party's burden to demonstrate a substantial likelihood that
Plaintiff can provide clear and convincing evidence of Defendants' malice, and
Plaintiff has failed to meet this burden. Thus, Plaintiff’s motion for leave to
conduct financial discovery against Defendant Fischer and against Defendant
Southwark is DENIED.
 
 
PLEASE TAKE NOTICE:¿¿¿ 
 
·        
If a party intends to submit on this tentative ruling,¿the party must send an email to
the court at¿sscdept27@lacourt.org¿with the Subject line “SUBMIT”
followed by the case number.¿ The body of the email must include the hearing date
and time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the party
submitting.¿¿¿¿¿ 
 
·        
Unless¿all¿parties submit by email to this tentative ruling, the
parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or in person for oral
argument.¿ You should assume that others may appear at the
hearing to argue.¿¿¿¿¿ 
 
·        
If the parties neither submit nor appear at hearing,
the Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the tentative ruling as the
order of the Court.¿ After the Court has issued a tentative ruling, the
Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion without leave.¿¿¿ 
 
 
 


