 Case Number:  22STCV24789    Hearing Date:   March 22, 2024    Dept:  27 ¿ 
SUPERIOR
COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA¿¿¿ 
FOR
THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT¿¿ 
 
¿¿ 



CRYSTAL MINTER,¿¿ 
¿ 
Plaintiff,¿¿ 
vs.¿¿ 
¿¿ 
CRISTINA GALLEGOS 
¿¿ 
Defendant.¿¿ 


)  
)  
)  
) 
) 
)
  )
  ) 
  ) 
) 


22STCV24789[TENTATIVE] Ruling re Plaintiff’s Motion for Order to
  Substitute in Decedent's Successor in Interest to Continue Action
¿¿ 
Hon. Lee S. Arian¿ 
Dept. 27¿ 
March 22, 2023¿ 
1:30 p.m.¿¿¿ 



¿ 
RULING: 
 
Defendant Plaintiff’s Motion for Order
to Substitute in Decedent's Successor in Interest to Continue Action is
GRANTED.
 
Background 
 
On 8/1/22, Plaintiff filed the present auto
accident case. Plaintiff died on October 9, 2023, but Plaintiff’s claims survive her death. Frank Antonio Gastelum,
the decedent's son and successor in interest, now seeks the Court's approval to
be substituted as the successor in interest for this case.
 
Legal Standard 
 
California Code
of Civil Procedure section 377.31 provides that the decedent’s personal
representative or, if none, the decedent’s successor in interest may continue a
decedent’s pending action. (Code Civ. Proc., § 377.30; see Adams v. Superior
Court (2011) 196 Cal.App.4th 71, 78-79.) A successor in interest is the
beneficiary of the decedent’s estate or other successor in interest who
succeeds to a cause of action or to a particular item of the property that is
the subject of the cause of action. (Code Civ. Proc., § 377.11.) Section 377.33
provides that the court in which an action is continued may make any order
concerning parties that is appropriate to ensure proper administration of
justice, including the appointment of the decedent’s successor in interest as a
special administrator or guardian ad litem.¿¿ 
 
Under Section 377.32(a), the person
who seeks to commence an action or proceeding or to continue a pending action
or proceeding as the decedent's successor in interest under this article, shall
execute and file an affidavit or a declaration under penalty of perjury under
the laws of this state stating all of the following:  
(1) The decedent's name.  
(2)
The date and place of the decedent's death.  
(3)
“No proceeding is now pending in California for administration of the
decedent's estate.”  
(4)
If the decedent's estate was administered, a copy of the final order showing
the distribution of the decedent's cause of action to the successor in
interest.  
(5)
Either of the following, as appropriate, with facts in support thereof:  
    
(A) “The affiant or declarant is the decedent's successor in interest (as
defined in Section 377.11 of the California Code of Civil Procedure) and
succeeds to the decedent's interest in the action or proceeding.”  
    
(B) “The affiant or declarant is authorized to act on behalf of the decedent's
successor in interest (as defined in Section 377.11 of the California Code of
Civil Procedure) with respect to the decedent's interest in the action or
proceeding.”  
(6)
“No other person has a superior right to commence the action or proceeding or
to be substituted for the decedent in the pending action or proceeding.”  
(7)
“The affiant or declarant affirms or declares under penalty of perjury under
the laws of the State of California that the foregoing is true and
correct.”  
(b) Where more than one person
executes the affidavit or declaration under this section, the statements
required by subdivision (a) shall be modified as appropriate to reflect that
fact. 
(c) A certified copy of the decedent's
death certificate shall be attached to the affidavit or declaration. (Id.,
§ 377.32(c).)¿¿ 
Analysis 
 
All requirements under CCP
§ 377.32 have been met. The affidavit of Frank Antonio Gastelum, attached to
the motion, contains all information required under CCP § 377.32(a). Additionally,
the decedent's death certificate was submitted, and a stipulation among all
successors in interest appoints Frank Antonio Gastelum as their representative.
Thus, Plaintiff's present
motion is GRANTED.
PLEASE TAKE NOTICE:¿¿¿ 
 
·        
If a party intends to submit on this tentative ruling,¿the party must send an email to
the court at¿sscdept27@lacourt.org¿with the Subject line “SUBMIT”
followed by the case number.¿ The body of the email must include the hearing date
and time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the party
submitting.¿¿¿¿¿ 
 
·        
Unless¿all¿parties submit by email to this tentative ruling, the
parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or in person for oral
argument.¿ You should assume that others may appear at the
hearing to argue.¿¿¿¿¿ 
 
·        
If the parties neither submit nor appear at hearing,
the Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the tentative ruling as the
order of the Court.¿ After the Court has issued a tentative ruling, the
Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion without leave.¿¿¿ 
 
 
 