  Case Number:  23AHCV01361    Hearing Date:   January 16, 2025    Dept:  P [TENTATIVE] ORDER GRANTING PLAINTIFF’S
MOTION FOR LEAVE TO FILE FIRST AMENDED COMPLAINTI.         INTRODUCTION
This action arises from an incident that occurred on April 19, 2023, at
an LA Fitness facility in Arcadia, California. Plaintiff, Hee Sung Kwon
(“Plaintiff”), alleges he sustained injuries due to a malfunctioning treadmill.
On June 14, 2023, Plaintiff filed claims against Defendants, Fitness
International, LLC (erroneously sued as “LA Fitness”) and Francesca Levy
(collectively, “Defendants”) alleging 1) Negligence and 2) Premise Liability.
 
On November 21, 2023, the Court denied Plaintiff’s motion for leave to
amend the complaint. Subsequently, on December 23, 2024, Plaintiff filed a
renewed motion for leave to amend. On January 3, 2024, Defendants filed their
opposition.
II.        LEGAL STANDARD
Code of Civil Procedure section
473, subdivision (a) provides: “The court may, in furtherance of justice, and
on any terms as may be proper, allow a party to amend any pleading or
proceeding by adding or striking out the name of any party, or by correcting a
mistake in the name of a party, or a mistake in any other respect; and may,
upon like terms, enlarge the time for answer or demurrer.¿ The court may
likewise, in its discretion, after notice to the adverse party, allow, upon any
terms as may be just, an amendment to any pleading or proceeding in other
particulars; and may upon like terms allow an answer to be made after the time
limited by this code.”¿ (Code Civ. Proc., § 473, subd. (a)(1); see Code
Civ. Proc., § 576.)¿¿¿ ¿ 
Permissible amendments pursuant to
Code of Civil Procedure section 473, subdivision (a) include amendments which
add causes of action.¿ A plaintiff that fails to plead a cause of action
arising out of the transaction or occurrence that gave rise to the complaint
may apply to the court for leave to amend the complaint to assert the cause of
action, whether that failure was the result of oversight, inadvertence,
mistake, neglect, or other cause.¿ (Code Civ. Proc., § 426.50; see Code
Civ. Proc., § 426.10, subd. (c).)¿ The motion to amend may be filed at any time
during the course of the action, on notice to the adverse party.¿ (Id.,
§ 426.50.)¿ ¿ 
The court has broad discretion to
permit amendments to pleadings, and “the court’s discretion will usually be
exercised liberally to permit amendment of the pleadings.”¿ (Howard v.
County of San Diego (2010) 184 Cal.App.4th 1422, 1428.)¿ “The policy
favoring amendment is so strong that it is a rare case in which denial of leave
to amend can be justified.”¿ (Ibid.)¿ “If the motion to amend is timely
made and the granting of the motion will not prejudice the opposing party, it
is error to refuse permission to amend . . ..”¿¿ (Morgan v. Superior Court
(1959) 172 Cal.App.2d 527, 530.)¿ Prejudice includes “delay in trial, loss of
critical evidence, or added costs of preparation.”¿ (Solit v. Tokai Bank,
Ltd. New York Branch (1999) 68 Cal.App.4th 1435, 1448.)¿ ¿ 
A motion to amend a pleading before
trial must include a copy of the proposed amendment or amended pleading.¿ (Cal.
Rules of Court, Rule 3.1324, subd. (a)(1).)¿ A motion to amend a pleading must
also be supported by a declaration which specifies the following: (1) the
effect of the amendment; (2) why the amendment is necessary and proper; (3)
when the facts giving rise to the amended allegations were discovered; and (4)
the reasons why the request for amendment was not made earlier.¿ (Cal. Rules of
Court, Rule 3.1324, subd. (b).)¿
III.      ANALYSIS
Plaintiff has cured the
deficiencies identified in the December 19, 2024, Minute Order denying the
prior motion to amend. Specifically, the declaration by Plaintiff’s counsel now
satisfies the requirements of rule 3.1324(b) by addressing (1) the effect of
the amendment, (2) why it is necessary and proper, (3) when the relevant facts
were discovered, and (4) why the amendment was not sought earlier. (Roesler
Decl., ¶¶ 13-18; Minute Order, pp. 2-3)
Plaintiff’s proposed amendments
allege that Defendants failed to properly inspect and maintain the treadmill’s
PC boards, demonstrating a “want of even scant care” and “an extreme departure
from industry standards.” (Proposed FAC, ¶¶ 17, 24) Plaintiff argues these
allegations are critical to their opposition to Defendants' pending motion for
summary judgment, which relies on an enforceable waiver defense. Without
amendment, Plaintiff contends that their ability to litigate the gross
negligence issue is substantially impaired. (Roesler Decl., ¶¶ 15-16)
Defendants, in opposition, argue
that the proposed amendments merely refine existing claims related to the
maintenance and operation of the treadmill. (Opposition, pp. 2-3). However, the
Court finds that Plaintiff has demonstrated the proposed allegations add
necessary and substantive details to support a claim for gross negligence.
Specifically, discovery revealed that Defendants failed to conduct proper
inspections of the PC boards, described as the “brains” of the treadmill, and
lacked any written policies or manuals regarding repair or maintenance
standards. (Roesler Decl., ¶¶ 6-12)
Plaintiff cites newly discovered
evidence obtained during depositions, including testimony from Defendant Levy,
who admitted she was unaware of any written policies or manuals for servicing
the equipment. (Roesler Decl., ¶ 8; Exh. A¿) Additionally, Castro, a Senior
Lead Technician, testified that no preventative maintenance was conducted on
the treadmill’s PC board and that no manuals or recommended inspection
schedules existed for the equipment. (Roesler Decl., ¶ 8; Exh. B¿)
The Court finds that the evidence
provided supports Plaintiff’s assertion that Defendants' actions constituted an
“extreme departure” from both manufacturer guidelines and industry standards.
(Proposed FAC, ¶ 17)
Courts are more inclined to grant
motions for leave to amend when the amendment is based on newly discovered
facts not previously known to the plaintiff. (Jersey v. John Muir Medical
Center (2002) 97 Cal.App.4th 814, 820.) Here, Plaintiff discovered during
depositions conducted in November 2024 that Defendants did not conduct
preventative maintenance on the treadmill’s PC boards, lacked training
protocols, and failed to adhere to manufacturer guidelines. (Roesler Decl., ¶¶
6-12¿) These newly discovered facts justify allowing the amendment and
continuing the summary judgment hearing to incorporate the new allegations into
the record. (Ibid.) California law also favors a liberal policy of
allowing amendments at any stage of litigation, including during trial,
provided there is no prejudice to the opposing party. (Eng v. Brown
(2018) 21 Cal.App.5th 675, 683.) Allowing the amendment ensures that
Plaintiff’s claims can be fully litigated on their merits, aligning with this
policy.
Defendants contend they will suffer
prejudice because their motion for summary judgment is scheduled for January
16, 2025. However, trial is not set until April 8, 2025, providing ample time
for additional discovery or adjustments. Moreover, the Court retains discretion
to continue the summary judgment hearing to accommodate the new allegations.
(See Jersey, supra, 97 Cal.App.4th at p. 820.) The liberal policy
favoring amendments outweighs the minimal prejudice to Defendants, particularly
when the amendment seeks to address substantive issues relevant to the
litigation. (Hirsa v. Superior Court (1981) 118 Cal.App.3d 486, 490.)
Based on the foregoing, the Court
GRANTS Plaintiff’s motion for leave to amend to file the FAC.
 
IV.       CONCLUSION AND ORDER
            The Court
GRANTS Plaintiff’s motion for leave to file a First Amended Complaint.  Plaintiff is to file his FAC within five days of this order.
Plaintiff is to give notice.
Dated: January 16, 2025                                                                       
                                                                                                  JARED D. MOSES JUDGE OF THE SUPERIOR COURT
                                                                                 