 Case Number:  23STCV00307    Hearing Date:   June 13, 2024    Dept:  53 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles – Central District
Department
53
 
 




drena m. humphries, by and through her successor-in-interest, Allen
   Humphries

   , et al.;
 


   Plaintiffs,
 
 
vs.
 
 
sunbridge hallmark health
   services, llc, d/b/a PLAYA DEL REY CENTER

   , et al.;
 


   Defendants.


Case
  No.:


23STCV00307




 


 




Hearing
  Date:


June
   13, 2024




 


 




Time:





   10:00 a.m.




 


 




 
[tentative]
  Order RE:
 
(1)  
  defendant’s
  application to file confidential declaration under seal
(2)  
  defendant’s
  motion for determination of good faith settlement
 



 
MOVING PARTY:                 Defendant 300 S. Robertson
Dialysis, d/b/a U.S. Renal Care Westside Dialysis          
 
RESPONDING PARTY:       Unopposed
(1)  
Application
to File Confidential Declaration Under Seal 
(2)  
Motion
for Determination of Good Faith Settlement
The court
considered the moving papers filed in connection with the application to seal
and the motion for determination of good faith settlement.  No opposition papers were filed. 
DISCUSSION
Defendant 300 S. Robertson Dialysis LLC, d/b/a U.S. Renal Care
Westside Dialysis (“Defendant”) moves the court for an order (1) filing under
seal the “Confidential Declaration of Rachel C. Bekerman in Support of
Defendant 300 S. Robertson Dialysis LLC, d/b/a U.S. Renal Care Westside
Dialysis’ Motion for Determination of Good Faith Settlement,” filed on May 7,
2024, and (2) determining that the settlement entered into by and between
Defendant, on the one hand, and plaintiffs Drena M. Humphries, by and through
her successor-in-interest Allen Humphries, Allen Humphries, George Humphries,
and John Humphries (“Plaintiffs”), on the other hand, was made in good
faith pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure sections 877 and 877.6.  In the interest of
efficiency, the court discusses Defendant’s two motions together. 
First, the
court grants Defendant’s application to seal. 
Generally,
court records are presumed to be open unless confidentiality is required by law.¿
(Cal. Rules of Court, rule 2.550, subd. (c).)¿ If the presumption of access
applies, the court may order that a record be filed under seal “if it expressly
finds facts that establish: (1) There exists an overriding interest that
overcomes the right of public access to the record; (2) The overriding interest
supports sealing the record; (3) A substantial probability exists that the
overriding interest will be prejudiced if the record is not sealed; (4) The
proposed sealing is narrowly tailored; and (5) No less restrictive means exist
to achieve the overriding interest.”¿ (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 2.550, subd.
(d).)¿¿ 
The court
finds, as to the amount of the settlement disclosed on page 2, line 15 of the
declaration of Rachel Bekerman and sections 4, 10, 20, 23, 27, 40, 43, 116, and
118 of the death certificate of plaintiff Drena Marie Humphries, attached as
Exhibit C to the declaration of Rachel Bekerman, that (1) there exists an
overriding interest that overcomes the right of public access to the record
because (i) the declaration sets forth the amount of the parties’ settlement,
which the parties have agreed to keep confidential, and (ii) the death
certificate includes personal information relating to plaintiff Drena
Humphries, (2) the overriding interest supports sealing the record, (3) a
substantial probability exists that the overriding interest will be prejudiced
if the record is not sealed, (4) the proposed sealing is narrowly tailored
since Defendant requests that the court seal only the settlement amount
disclosed in the declaration and certain sections of the death certificate, and
(5) no less restrictive means exist to achieve the overriding interest.  (Cal. Rules of Ct., rule 2.550, subd. (d); Bekerman
Decl., ¶ 4-5.)  The court therefore
grants Defendant’s application to seal. 
Second, the
court finds that Defendant has shown that the parties’ settlement was entered
into in good faith.  
“[Code of Civil Procedure]
Section 877.6 was enacted by the Legislature in 1980 to establish a statutory
procedure for determining if a settlement by an alleged joint tortfeasor has
been entered into in good faith and to provide a bar to claims of other alleged
joint tortfeasors for equitable contribution or partial or comparative
indemnity when good faith is shown.”¿ (IRM Corp. v. Carlson (1986) 179
Cal.App.3d 94, 104.)¿ On noticed motion, “[a]ny party to an action wherein it
is alleged that two or more parties are joint tortfeasors or co-obligors on a
contract debt shall be entitled to a hearing on the issue of the good faith of
a settlement entered into by the plaintiff . . . and one or more alleged
tortfeasors or co-obligors . . . .”¿ (Code Civ. Proc., § 877.6, subd.
(a).)  “The party asserting the lack of
good faith shall have the burden of proof on that issue.”¿ (Code Civ. Proc., §
877.6, subd. (d).)¿¿ 
When a motion for
determination of good faith settlement is uncontested, a “barebones” motion
that sets forth the ground of good faith, accompanied by a declaration which
sets forth a brief background of the case, is sufficient to support a good
faith determination.¿ (City of Grand Terrace v. Superior Court (1987)
192 Cal.App.3d 1251, 1261.)¿¿¿¿ 
The court
has not received opposition papers from any other party involved in this
action.  The court finds that Defendant’s
motion and the supporting declaration of Rachel C. Bekerman set forth (1) the
ground of good faith of the parties’ settlement, including because the parties
reached settlement after several discussions and arms-length negotiations
between February and April 2024, and (2) a brief background of the case.  (Bekerman Decl., ¶¶ 3-4, 8-9, 11-17; Mot.,
pp. 7:23-9:7.)  The court also recognizes
that counsel for Plaintiffs, defendant Niceto Lopez, M.D., and defendants
Sunbridge Hallmark Health Services, LLC d/b/a Playa Del Rey Center and NewGen
Operations Management, LLC entered into a stipulation in which the parties
agreed that the settlement agreement between Defendant and Plaintiffs was
entered into in good faith within the meaning of Code of Civil Procedure
section 877.6.  (Bekerman Decl., Ex. A,
pp. 2:14-19, 3-4.)  The court finds that
Defendant’s motion and supporting evidence are sufficient to support a good
faith determination and therefore grants Defendant’s motion.  (City of Grand Terrace, supra,
192 Cal.App.3d at p. 1261.)  
 
ORDER
            The court grants defendant 300 S.
Robertson Dialysis, LLC d/b/a U.S. Renal Care Westside Dialysis’s application
to seal. 
            The court orders that the unredacted
version of the “Confidential Declaration of Rachel C. Bekerman in Support of
Defendant 300 S. Robertson Dialysis LLC, d/b/a U.S. Renal Care Westside
Dialysis’ Motion for Determination of Good Faith Settlement,” lodged with the
court on or about May 7, 2024, shall be filed under seal. 
            The court orders defendant 300 S.
Robertson Dialysis, LLC d/b/a U.S. Renal Care Westside Dialysis to file a
revised redacted version of the “Confidential Declaration of Rachel C. Bekerman
in Support of Defendant 300 S. Robertson Dialysis LLC, d/b/a U.S. Renal Care
Westside Dialysis’ Motion for Determination of Good Faith Settlement” that identifies
it as “Public-Redacts materials from conditionally sealed record.”
            Pursuant to California Rules of Court,
rule 2.551, subdivision (e), the court directs the clerk to file this order,
maintain the records ordered sealed in a secure manner, and clearly identify
the records as sealed by this order.¿¿¿¿¿ 
The court grants defendant 300 S. Robertson Dialysis, LLC d/b/a U.S.
Renal Care Westside Dialysis’s motion for determination of good faith
settlement.
            The court determines that the
settlement entered into by and between defendant 300 S. Robertson Dialysis, LLC
d/b/a U.S. Renal Care Westside Dialysis, on the one hand, and plaintiffs Drena
M. Humphries, by and through her successor-in-interest Allen Humphries, Allen
Humphries, George Humphries, and John Humphries, on the other hand, is in good
faith within the meaning of Code of Civil Procedure section 877.6, subdivision
(a).
All other joint tortfeasors or
co-obligors are barred from any further claims against settling defendant
300 S. Robertson Dialysis, LLC d/b/a U.S. Renal Care Westside Dialysis for equitable
comparative contribution, or partial or comparative indemnity, based on
comparative negligence or comparative fault.¿ (Code Civ. Proc., § 877.6, subd.
(c).)¿¿ 
 
            The court orders defendant 300 S.
Robertson Dialysis, LLC d/b/a U.S. Renal Care Westside Dialysis to give notice
of this ruling.
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
DATED:  June 13, 2024
 
_____________________________
Robert
B. Broadbelt III
Judge
of the Superior Court