 Case Number:  KC070403    Hearing Date:   October 31, 2023    Dept:  K Plaintiff R. Hayes,
Inc.’s Motion to Fix Amount of Attorney’s Fees Awardable as Item of Costs is CONTINUED
to January 26, 2024 at 9:00 a.m.
Background   
Plaintiff R. Hayes, Inc. (“Plaintiff”) alleges as
follows: On or about October 5, 2017, Plaintiff entered into an oral agreement
with Ran Li and Crystal Aixinjuelou (collectively, “Defendants”), wherein
Plaintiff agreed to provide general remodeling services for the property
located at 19103 Singingwood, Rowland Heights, Los Angeles, CA (“subject
property”). Defendants have failed to pay for the work.
On February 8, 2022,
Plaintiff filed a First Amended Complaint, asserting causes of action against
Defendants and Does 1-100 for:
1.                 
Breach
of Contract 
2.                 
Foreclosure
of Mechanics’ Lien
3.                 
Quantum
Meruit
4.                 
Fraud
and Deceit
On June 16, 2023, judgment
was entered.
Legal
Standard
“Except as otherwise expressly provided by statute, a
prevailing party is entitled as a matter of right to recover costs in any
action or proceeding.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 1032, subd. (b).)
“The following items are
allowable as costs under Section 1032: . . . (10) Attorney's fees, when
authorized by any of the following: (A) Contract. (B) Statute. (C) Law.” (Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 1033.5, subd. (a)(10).)
“Except as otherwise agreed in writing by the owner and
direct contractor, the owner shall pay the direct contractor, within 30 days
after notice demanding payment pursuant to the contract is given, any progress
payment due as to which there is no good faith dispute between them. The notice
given shall comply with the requirements of Chapter 2 (commencing with Section
8100) of Title 1.” (Civ. Code., § 8800, subd. (a).)
“An owner that violates this section is liable to the direct
contractor for a penalty of 2 percent per month on the amount wrongfully
withheld, in place of any interest otherwise due. In an action for collection
of the amount wrongfully withheld, the prevailing party is entitled to costs
and a reasonable attorney's fee.” (Civ. Code., § 8800, subd. (c).)
Discussion
Plaintiff moves the
court, per Civil Code § 8800, for an award of attorney’s fees in the amount of $102,231.75.
Request for Judicial Notice
The court rules on Defendants’ Request for Judicial Notice
(“RJN”) as follows: Granted as to Request No. 1 (i.e., complaint filed June 25,
2018); Granted as to Request No. 2 (i.e., First Amended Verified Complaint
(“FAC”) filed February 8, 2022) and Granted as to Request No. 3 (i.e., June 5,
2023 minute order).
Merits
1.                 
Entitlement to Fees 
On June 5, 2023, the court ruled in favor of Plaintiff on
Causes of Action Nos. 1-3 in the total amount of $25,327.41 and in favor of
Defendants on Cause of Action No. 4 and noted that “[a]ttorney’s fees pursuant
to Civil Code section 8800 [would] be considered through a noticed Motion for
Attorneys’ Fees.” On June 16, 2023, judgment was entered, with attorney’s fees
to be determined “per motion.”
Defendants assert that Plaintiff is not, in fact, entitled
to recovery of fees pursuant to Civil Code § 8800, subdivision (c) on the basis
that there is no progress payment contract in this case. The court needs
additional briefing on this matter to make that determination.
Plaintiff alleged in its FAC that
Plaintiff and Defendants “entered into an oral agreement based on a written
estimate provided to the Defendants’ homeowners insurance company whereby
Plaintiff agreed to provide general remodeling services, including providing
and installing flooring, shelves, painting and mold remediation at [Property]”
(FAC, ¶ 9); that Defendant agreed to pay Plaintiff (Id.); that Plaintiff
furnished the services (Id., ¶ 12); that Plaintiff provided
Defendants with various invoices, the first three of which comprised the work
that was paid by the insurance company (Id., ¶ 10); that Defendants
breached the oral contract by failing to pay $28,760.15 (Id., ¶ 13); and
that, although Plaintiff received joint checks from Defendants’ mortgage
lender, those checks were endorsed by Plaintiff and given to Defendants for
deposit into Defendants’ bank account and Plaintiff only received part of the
check proceeds on the first invoice only (Id.).
The court notes that Plaintiff has not supported its motion
with any evidence reflecting that Plaintiff and Defendants reached an agreement
about the work schedule and/or payment schedule in the first instance. Although
Plaintiff contends that “the Court found that Defendants wrongfully withheld
progress payments due to [Plaintiff]” (Motion, 5:24-25) and that “[t]he Court
has already found that Defendant wrongfully withheld progress payments due to
[Plaintiff] who is the prevailing party and is entitled to recover its
attorneys’ fees under Civil Code § 8800” (Reply, 6:11-13), Plaintiff has not
supported the foregoing statements with citations to any evidence.[1]
Additionally, the court observes that Plaintiff has not
supported its motion with any evidence reflecting that Plaintiff gave
Defendants details of progress payments (defined in Business & Professions
Code § 7159, subdivision (d)(9) as payments “other than the downpayment”) meeting
the requirements set forth in section 7159. Specifically, Business and
Professions Code § 7159, subdivision (d)(9) provides as follows:
            If payments, other than the
downpayment, are to be made before the project
is
completed, the details of these payments, known as progress payments, 
shall
be expressed in substantially the following form, and shall include the text 
of
the statement as specified in subparagraph (C):
 
(A)            
A
schedule of progress payments shall be preceded by the heading: ‘Schedule of
Progress Payments.’
(B)             
Each
progress payment shall be stated in dollars and cents and specifically 
reference
the amount of work or services to be performed and materials and 
equipment
to be supplied.
(C)             
The
section of the contract reserved for the progress payments shall include 
the
following statement in at least 12-point boldface type:
 
The
schedule of progress payments must specifically describe each phase of 
work,
including the type and amount of work or services scheduled to be supplied 
in
each phase, along with the amount of each proposed progress payment. IT IS
AGAINST THE LAW FOR A CONTRACTOR TO COLLECT PAYMENT FOR WORK NOT YET COMPLETED,
OR FOR MATERIALS NOT YET DELIVERED. HOWEVER, A CONTRACTOR MAY REQUIRE A
DOWNPAYMENT.
The court also notes that Plaintiff has failed to support
its motion with any evidence reflecting that Plaintiff gave Defendants “notice demanding
payment pursuant to the contract” which “compl[ied] with the requirements of
Chapter 2 (commencing with Section 8100) of Title 1,” as required by Civil Code
§ 8800, subdivision (a). Civil Code § 8102 provides that such notice must
include the names and addresses of the owner or reputed owner, direct
contractor and construction lender, if any, “[a] description of the site
sufficient for identification, including the street address of the site, if
any,” “[t]he name, address and relationship to the parties of the person giving
notice” and, if the person giving notice is a claimant, “[a] general statement
of the work provided,” “[t]he name of the person to or for whom the work is
provided” and “[a] statement or estimate of the claimant’s demand, if any,
after deducting all just credits and offsets.”
Finally, the court observes that Plaintiff has failed to
support its motion with any evidence reflecting compliance with Civil Code §
8118.[2]
2.                 
Reasonableness of Fees
Inasmuch as Plaintiff has failed to show an entitlement to
fees pursuant to Civil Code § 8800, the court need not address whether or not
the fees incurred were reasonable.
Conclusion
To the extent Plaintiff seeks attorneys’ fees under Civil
Code § 8800, the court seeks further briefing how the various invoices
introduced as trial exhibits comply with the provisions of  section 8800. The matter is continued to January 26, 2024 at 9:00 a.m.


