 Case Number:  23STCP01071    Hearing Date:   October 31, 2023    Dept:  K 1.                 
Cross-Defendant
Rachel M. Darvish’s Demurrer to Cross-Complaint is SUSTAINED in part (i.e., as
to the first through sixth causes of action) and OVERRULED in part (i.e., as to
the seventh cause of action). The court will hear from Rouillard as to whether
leave to amend is requested, and as to which cause(s) of action, and will
require an offer of proof if so. Rahbar’s joinder is GRANTED.
2.         Cross-Defendant
Rachel M. Darvish’s Motion to Strike Punitive Damages from Cross-Complaint is DENIED
as MOOT.
3.         Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant
Annex Walnut Automotive Colors & Supply, Inc.’s Demurrer to Cross-Complaint
is OVERRULED.
4.         Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant
Annex Walnut Automotive Colors & Supply, Inc.’s Motion to Strike [Portions
of] Cross-Complaint is GRANTED. 
Background   
Case No. 23STCP01071
Plaintiff Annex Walnut Automotive
Colors & Supply, Inc. (“Annex”) alleges as follows:
Annex is a
distributor of automotive and industrial coatings and paint. Rachel M. Darvish
("Darvish"), Keyvan Rahbar (“Rahbar”) and Maryam Rouillard
(“Rouillard”) each own 33% of the outstanding shares and voting power of Annex.
Rouillard has been responsible for the day-to-day management and operations of
Annex. Annex seeks to wind up and dissolve. Rouillard has never distributed any
income to Darvish and Rahbar but has reported to the IRS distributions to both.

 
In December 2022,
Rouillard informed Darvish and Rahbar of her plans to retire, that she had
arranged to sell sale of Annex to one its competitors, Wesco Group, LLC.
(hereinafter "Wesco Group") and that she and Wesco Group had agreed
on a total estimated purchase price of $1,308,385.00. 
 
On January 30, 2023,
Rouillard changed Annex’s Statement of Information on file with the California
Secretary of State to name herself as agent for service of process and its only
director and Chief Executive Officer. 
 
On March 6, 2023,
Darvish, Rahbar and Rouillard met to discuss how the sale and distribution of
the proceeds would be handled; during that meeting, Rouillard became angry and
physically assaulted Darvish. Rouillard interfered with the sale due in part to
the March 6th incident, causing Wesco Group to withdraw from the transaction. 
 
On or about May 1,
2023, Darvish and Rahbar contacted Wesco Group and were able to revive Wesco
Group's initial offer to purchase Annex. On May 17, 2023, in order to
effectuate the sale, Wesco Group submitted a list of documents to be produced
by Annex. Rouillard is one two individuals affiliated with Annex who has access
to this information, the other person being Rouillard's nephew, Amir Karimpour
(“Karimpour”). Rouillard has failed to cooperate and has directed Annex’s
employees, including Karimpour, not to cooperate and supply the requested
information. Rouillard has contacted representatives of Wesco Group, as well as
other third parties and potential buyers, and informed them that she will
prevent the sale of Annex to Wesco Group or to those third-party buyers.
On June 8, 2023, Annex filed a
“Verified First Amended Petition,” asserting causes of action against Rouillard,
John Kobes, Calvin Kobes and Does 1-20 for:
1.                 
Request for Court Supervision Over Voluntary
Dissolution—California Corporations Code Section 1904
2.                 
Breach of Fiduciary Duty
3.                 
Conversion
4.                 
Fraud
5.                 
Intentional Interference with Prospective Economic
Relations
6.                 
Declaratory Relief
On July 7, 2023, an “Order on Petitioner Annex Walnut Automotive Colors
& Supply, Inc.’s Motion for the Appointment of a Receiver” was filed;
that day, the matter was reassigned to this instant department.
On July 11, 2023, Rouillard filed
a cross-complaint, asserting causes of action against Darvish, Rahbar, Annex
and Roes 21-50 for:
1.                 
Breach of Fiduciary Duty
2.                 
Aiding and Abetting Breach of Fiduciary Duty
3.                 
Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress
4.                 
Fraud
5.                 
Conspiracy to Commit Fraud
6.                 
Common Count: Goods and Services 
7.                 
Declaratory Relief
On August 17, 2023, the court
related Case No. 23PSCV01022 to the instant case
and designated the instant case as the lead case.
A Status Conference is set for
October 4, 2023.
Case
No. 23PSCV01022

Plaintiff M&K Partners
(“M&K”) alleges as follows:
M&K is a general
partnership between Lilly Darvish and Rahbar. On October 4, 2019, Rouillard
caused legal title to the property located at 17999 East Valley Boulevard, City
of Industry, CA 91744 (“property”) to be transferred to MMK Partners, LLC (“MMK
Partners”). The transfer was unauthorized and made without consideration. 
On May 30, 2023, M&K filed a First
Amended Complaint, asserting causes of action against MMK Partners, Kamran
Ghoreyshi (“Ghoreyshi”), Rouillard, all persons unknown claiming any legal or
equitable right, title, estate, lien, or interest in the property described in
the complaint adverse to Plaintiff’s title, or any cloud on Plaintiff’s title
thereto and Does 1-20 for:
1.                 
Quiet Title
2.                 
Cancellation of Deed
3.                 
Fraud
On August 17, 2023, the court
related Case No. 23STCP01071 to the instant case and designated Case No.
23STCP01071 as the lead case.
1.         Darvish Demurrer
Legal Standard
A
demurrer may be made on the grounds that the pleading, inter alia, does not
state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action. (Code Civ. Proc., §
430.10, subd. (e).)
When considering demurrers, courts read the allegations liberally and in
context. In a demurrer proceeding, the defects must be apparent on the face of
the pleading or via proper judicial notice. (Donabedian v. Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994.) “A
demurrer tests the pleadings alone and not the evidence or other extrinsic
matters. Therefore, it lies only where the defects appear on the face of the
pleading or are judicially noticed.” (SKF Farms v. Superior Court (1984)
153 Cal.App.3d 902, 905 [citations omitted].) At the pleading stage, a
plaintiff need only allege ultimate facts sufficient to apprise the defendant
of the factual basis for the claim against him. (Semole v. Sansoucie (1972) 28 Cal. App. 3d 714, 721.) “[A] demurrer
does not, however, admit contentions, deductions or conclusions of fact or law
alleged in the pleading, or the construction placed on an instrument pleaded
therein, or facts impossible in law, or allegations contrary to facts of which
a court may take judicial knowledge.” (S.
Shore Land Co. v. Petersen (1964) 226 Cal.App.2d 725, 732 [citations
omitted].)
Discussion
Darvish demurs, pursuant to Code of Civil
Procedure § 430.10, subdivision (e), to the first through seventh causes of
action in Rouillard’s cross-complaint, on the basis that they each fail
to state facts sufficient to constitute causes of action.
Request for
Judicial Notice
Darvish’s request
for judicial notice is granted.
Joinder
Rahbar’s joinder is timely filed and is
granted.
Merits
1.                    
First
Through Third Causes of Action (i.e., Breach of Fiduciary Duty, Aiding and
Abetting Breach of Fiduciary Duty and Intentional Infliction of Emotional
Distress, Respectively)
Darvish asserts that the facts upon which the
first through third causes of action are based are within the scope of the
litigation privilege.
“A privileged publication. . . is one made: .
. . (b) In any (1) legislative proceeding, (2) judicial proceeding, (3) in any
other official capacity authorized by law, or (4) in the initiation of course
of any other proceeding authorized by law and reviewable pursuant to Chapter 2
(commencing with Section 1084) of Title 1 of Part 3 of the Code of Civil
Procedure . . .” (Civ. Code, § 47, subd. (b).)
The privilege
“has been given broad application” and is applicable “to any communication,
whether or not it amounts to a publication and all torts except malicious
prosecution,” (Silberg v. Anderson (1990) 50 Cal.3d 205, 211-212). It
also applies “to any publication required or permitted by law in the course of
a judicial proceeding to achieve the objects of the litigation, even though the
publication is made outside the courtroom and no function of the court or its
officers is involved.” (Id. at 212). “The usual formulation is that the
privilege applies to any communication (1) made in judicial or quasi-judicial
proceedings; (2) by litigants or other participants authorized by law; (3) to
achieve the objects of the litigation; and (4) that have some connection or
logical relation to the action.” (Id.)
Here, Rouillard
seeks to hold Rahbar and Darvish (each of whom are alleged to be “equal
shareholder[s] in ANNEX” [Cross-Complaint, ¶ 11]) liable for breach of
fiduciary duty, aiding and abetting breach of fiduciary duty and intentional
infliction of emotional distress (“IIED”) causes of action based on Rahbar’s
and Darvish’s “vote to dissolve Annex and . . .mov[e] forward with the sale of
ANNEX” (Cross-Complaint, ¶ 17), choosing to “even involv[e] the Court” (Id.,
¶ 23) by causing Annex to “br[ing] a wrongful claim against [Rouillard],
including seeking the order for the Court to appoint a receiver over ANNEX,
effectively kicking [her] out of the business.” (Id., ¶ 30). In support
of her intentional infliction of emotional distress cause of action, Rouillard
alleges that claims made by Rahbar and Darvish in this proceeding have caused
her severe emotional distress. (Id., ¶ 33 [“By the conduct alleged above
and falsely accusing Cross-Complainant of malfeasance. . ., Cross-Defendants
acted outrageously with the intention to cause, or with reckless disregard of
the probability of causing Cross-Complainant severe emotional distress . .
.”].)
Regardless
of whether or not the litigation privilege applies, Rouillard’s
breach of fiduciary duty and aiding and abetting breach of fiduciary duty causes
of action are flawed, inasmuch as they are based on the allegation that Rahbar
and Darvish “intentionally breached their fiduciary duties by forcing the sale
of ANNEX to Wesco for a seriously discounted rate of almost $400,000.00.”
(Cross-Complaint, ¶ 22). The “Order on Petitioner Annex Walnut Automotive
Colors & Supply, Inc.’s Motion for the Appointment of a Receiver” entered
July 7, 2023 (RJN, Exh. A), however, confirms that no sale of Annex has taken
place. Additionally, Rouillard’s IIED cause of action fails, because Rouillard has
not sufficiently pled “extreme and outrageous” conduct. (Plotnik v. Meihaus
(2012) 208 Cal.App.4th 1590, 1609-1610 [“A defendant’s conduct is outrageous
when it is so extreme as to exceed all bounds of that usually tolerated in a
civilized community”].)
Darvish’s
unopposed demurrer to the first through third causes of action is sustained.
2.                 
Fourth
and Fifth Causes of Action (i.e., Fraud and Conspiracy to Commit Fraud,
Respectively)
Darvish asserts that the fourth cause of
action has not been pled with specificity.
“In California,
fraud must be pled specifically; general and conclusory allegations do not
suffice. Thus the policy of liberal construction of the pleadings ... will not
ordinarily be invoked to sustain a pleading defective in any material respect.
This particularity requirement necessitates pleading facts which show how, when, where, to whom, and by
what means the representations were tendered.” (Robinson Helicopter Co.,
Inc. v. Dana Corp. (2004) 34 Cal.4th 979, 993 [quotations and
citation omitted].)
Rouillard has
alleged that “[t]hroughout the past thirty (30) years and on various occasions,
Cross-Defendants promised Cross-Complainant that she would be fairly
compensated for managing and operating ANNEX, at the time ANNEX was sold and
its assets sold.” (Cross-Complaint, ¶ 38). Rouillard has further alleged that
“there arose occasions where the business needed additional funds and
Cross-Complainant would lend the money to ANNEX, with the promise from the
Cross-Defendants that any monies lent would be repaid from the sale of ANNEX.”
(Id., ¶ 39).
Rouillard,
however, has failed to allege how, when, where, and by what means such promises
were made and whether they were made by Darvish or Rahbar or both of them on
each such occasion.
Rouillard’s fifth
cause of action fails, inasmuch as it is dependent upon the fourth cause of
action: “Conspiracy is not a cause of action, but a legal doctrine that imposes
liability on persons who, although not actually committing a tort themselves,
share with the immediate tortfeasors a common plan of design in its
perpetration. . . Standing alone, a conspiracy does no harm and engenders no
tort liability. It must be activated by the commission of an actual
tort. “(Applied Equipment Corp. v. Litton Saudi Arabia Ltd. (1994)
7 Cal.4th 503, 511.)
Darvish’s
unopposed demurrer to the fourth and fifth causes of action is sustained.
3.                 
Sixth
Cause of Action (i.e., Common Count—Goods and Services Rendered)
Darvish asserts that the sixth cause of
action fails because it pleads services rendered to Annex, not to Darvish.
Rouillard has alleged that she provided
“management and operational services. . . and lent money to ANNEX.”
(Cross-Complaint, ¶ 52 [emphasis added]; see also, ¶ 11 [Cross-Complainant has
managed and operated ANNEX for approximately thirty (30) years . . .
Cross-Complainant also contributed her own personal funds to help with the
operation of ANNEX”].)
Darvish’s
unopposed demurrer to the sixth cause of action is sustained.
4.      Seventh Cause of Action (i.e., Declaratory
Relief)
Darvish contends that the declaratory relief
cause of action should also be dismissed “[s]ince the Cross-complaint fails to
state any claim against Rahbar or Darvish.” (Demurrer, 9:1-2). Darvish,
however, has not provided the court with any authority in support of this
proposition.
Darvish’s
unopposed demurrer to the seventh cause of action is overruled.

2.         Darvish Motion to Strike
Based upon the ruling made on the demurrer, Darvish’s motion
to strike is denied as moot.
3.         Annex
Demurrer 
Legal Standard
See Demurrer #1.
Discussion
Annex demurs, pursuant
to Code of Civil Procedure § 430.10, subdivision (e), to the sixth cause of
action in Rouillard’s cross-complaint, on the basis that it fails to
state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action.
The elements of a common count cause of action are “(1) the
statement of indebtedness in a certain sum, (2) the consideration, i.e., goods
sold, work done, etc., and (3) nonpayment.” (Farmers Ins. Exchange v. Zerin
(1997) 53 Cal.App.4th 445, 460.) “To recover on a claim for the
reasonable value of services under a quantum meruit theory, a plaintiff must
establish both that he or she was acting pursuant to either an express or
implied request for services from the defendant and that the services rendered
were intended to and did benefit the defendant.” (Ochs v. PacifiCare of
California (2004) 115 Cal.App.4th 782, 794.)
Rouillard has sufficiently pled the elements of this cause of
action. (See Cross-Complaint, ¶¶ 51-55). Annex’s demurrer is overruled.
4.         Annex Motion
to Strike
Legal Standard
Pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 436, “the court may, upon a
motion made pursuant to Section 435, or at any time in its discretion, and upon
terms it deems proper: (a) Strike out any irrelevant, false, or improper matter
inserted in any pleading. (b) Strike out all or any part of any pleading not
drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of this state, a court rule, or an
order of the court.” The grounds for a motion to strike must “appear on the
face of the challenged pleading or from any matter of which the court is
required to take judicial notice.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437.)
Discussion
Annex moves the court for an order striking out ¶ 18 (i.e.,
“Cross-Defendants’ actions were done with cold and calculated disregard of
Cross-Complainant and were malicious, willful and oppressive to the extent that
Cross-Complainant has suffered serious financial losses, as well as emotional
distress and anxiety”) and ¶ 2 of the prayer (i.e., “[f]or punitive and
exemplary damages”) in Rouillard’s cross-complaint.
Punitive damages may be awarded upon clear and convincing evidence that a
defendant has been guilty of oppression, fraud, or malice. (Civ. Code § 3294,
subd. (a).)
“Malice” is defined as “conduct which is intended by the defendant to
cause injury to the plaintiff or despicable conduct which is carried on by the
defendant with a willful and conscious disregard of the rights or safety of
others.” (Civ. Code § 3294, subd. (c)(1).)
“Oppression” is defined as “despicable conduct that subjects a person to
cruel and unjust hardship in conscious disregard of that person’s rights.”
(Civ. Code § 3294, subd. (c)(2).) “Fraud” is defined as “an intentional
misrepresentation, deceit, or concealment of a material fact known to the
defendant with the intention on the part of the defendant of thereby depriving
a person of property or legal rights or otherwise causing injury.” (Civ. Code §
3294, subd. (c)(3).)
A “conclusory characterization of defendant’s conduct as intentional,
willful and fraudulent is a patently insufficient statement of ‘oppression,
fraud, or malice. . .’” (Brousseau v.
Jarrett (1977) 73 Cal.App.3d 864, 872.) “The mere allegation an intentional
tort was committed is not sufficient to warrant an award of punitive damages.
Not only must there be circumstances of oppression, fraud, or malice, but facts
must be alleged in the pleading to support such a claim.” (Grieves v. Superior Court (1984) 157 Cal.App.3d 159, 166.)
Rouillard has only asserted two causes of action against
Annex, for Common Count—Goods and Services Rendered and Declaratory Relief.
There is no indication that Rouillard is seeking punitive damages as to either
cause of action; however, the court acknowledges that Rouillard’s Paragraph 18
is incorporated into these causes of action, such that the instant motion has
been brought as a precaution.
Rouillard has not pled facts supporting oppressive,
fraudulent, or malicious conduct on the part of Annex. The motion, then, is
granted.