 Case Number:  22VECV01056    Hearing Date:   October 4, 2023    Dept:  T 22VECV01056 SANCHEZ V GM...FINAL STATUS CONFERENCE Parties are in violation of the court’s FSC order of  3/24/2023.  No trial documents have been  filed. The court is inclined to continue the FSC to 10/11/2023, the date of  trial, not start trial that date and order compliance with the court’s order of  3/24/2023. A motion to compel has been scheduled for 10/24/2023  which is two weeks after the trial date is supposed to start.  In reviewing the motion, the court notes that  the discovery was served November 2022, the responses were served 5/31/2023,  and plaintiff waited 3 months to file a motion, intentionally setting it for a  date after the trial date.  Two months  have gone by since the motion was filed and no attempt has been made to advance  the hearing on the motion. Plaintiff MILs 1-20  Grant, no mention of attorney advertisements by anyone. Grant, counsel are not parties.  On the other hand, counsel cannot       identify themselves as parties, such as “we” when the plaintiff is       singular. Grant as to settlement negotiations of this lawsuit. Deny to the extent it attempts to bar any evidence that there was no       repurchase request.  Otherwise, it is unclear what the motion       requests. Deny.  The parties are entitled to present their theory of the       case.  It is the trier of facts determination as to whether those       facts meet the statutory definitions. It depends upon the reason why defendant may consider it to be       relevant evidence.  The court will hear argument. The court orders the parties to follow the law.  It will not       dissect all of the statutes as to what can and cannot be stated. This is too overbroad to be determined in a vacuum. The parties are ordered to not argue or comment to the contrary of       CACI 3230.  If done, this could result in monetary sanctions and/or       mistrial.  It is unclear what is being requested.  How can a vehicle       be repaired without repair of a component?  How could a defendant       explain their repair of a vehicle without mentioning the component       repaired?  The court will hear argument. Grant unless approved by the court in advance. If the jury is not told how attorneys fees are calculated by the       court, might there not be confusion or speculation?  The court will       consider an instruction on this issue. Grant Grant This is too overbroad to be determined in a vacuum. This is too overbroad to be determined in a vacuum. This is too overbroad to be determined in a vacuum. Non party witnesses are barred from the courtroom during the       presentation of evidence pursuant to Evidence Code section 777. Provided that plaintiff will not be asserting the presumption under       the Tanner Act, grant. Are there any damages claimed by plaintiff which would require an       assessment of the current value of the car?  What if there was no       request for repurchase?  The court will hear argument.  GM MIL’s 1-7    The court grants the motion to the following extent:  Plaintiff       may not refer to, argue, or discuss how the jurors would feel if the       vehicle at issue belonged to them, including in voir dire, opening       statement, and closing argument, nor reference this in any questions       before the jury, The court grants the motion and precludes plaintiff from       introducing, referring, or mentioning evidence of issues she did not       experience. The court grants the motion and excludes reference to other owners       without first discussing the matter with the court outside of the presence       of the jury. The court grants the motion and orders that there can be no mention       of damages which are not recoverable under the plaintiff’s complaint. The court grants the motion and orders that there can be no mention       of a design defect. The court grants the motion and orders that the absence of the       corporate representative at trial cannot be mentioned.  It is the       court’s practice to advise the jury that parties are not required to       attend the trial and that they are not to assume anything because of their       absence. The court will discuss this with counsel, but the court is not in       receipt of any jury instructions defining lemon law or lemon.  The       court will not allow the use of the phrase “lemon law” or “lemon.” There       is concern that the jury, without a proper definition, may misinterpret       what “lemon law” or the car being a “lemon” means.  ‘Lemon law” does       not appear in the jury instructions. The court is not in favor of using       slang for official definitions as contained in CACI.  It is the role       of the court to define the law for the jury.  Otherwise, there is the       potential for misinformation and speculation.         