  Case Number:  21VECV00692    Hearing Date:   October 4, 2023    Dept:  T 21VECV00692 AKHOUNDZADEH V  KHATIBI [TENTATIVE] ORDER:  Cross-Defendant Karen Dr LLC’s Motion for  Judgment on the Pleadings against the Third Amended Cross-Complaint is GRANTED  WITHOUT LEAVE TO AMEND as to the third, fifth through eighth, and tenth causes  of action; and DENIED as to the sixteenth and seventeenth causes of action. Cross-Defendant Karen Dr LLC’s  request for judicial notice is GRANTED as to all Exhibits but only as to the  documents’ existence and not as to any hearsay or facts in dispute. Cross-Complainant Richard  Khatibi, individually and dba Rich Estate Properties’ request for judicial  notice is GRANTED only as to Exhibit 1 but only as to the documents existence  and not as to any hearsay or facts in dispute; DENIED as to Exhibits 2-6. Cross-Complainants Faezeh Afchehe  and Melica Khatibi’s request for leave to file a fourth amended cross-complaint  made in their opposition is DENIED WITHOUT PREJUDICE.  Introduction  Cross-Defendant Karen Dr LLC  (LLC) moved for judgment on the pleadings against Cross-Complainants Richard  Khatibi, individually and dba Rich Estate Properties (Richard ), Faezeh Afchehe  (Faezeh), and Melica Khatibi’s (Melica) (collectively, Cross-Complainants)  Third Amended Cross-Complaint (TAXC).  In  the TAXC relevant to LLC, Richard alleged the third COA for breach of covenant  of good faith and fair dealing, the fifth COA for Unfair Business Practices  violation (UCL), the sixth COA for accounting, the seventh COA for open book  account, the eighth COA for quantum meruit, the tenth COA for dissolution of  the joint venture and AEK; Faezeh alleged the sixteenth COA for quiet title,  and all Cross-Complainants alleged the seventeenth COA for declaratory relief.  Richard filed an opposition separately from  Faezeh and Melica. Procedure LLC’s request for judicial notice  is GRANTED as to all Exhibits but only as to the documents’ existence and not  as to any hearsay or facts in dispute. Richard’s request for judicial  notice as to exhibits 2-6 is DENIED because the Court cannot take judicial  notice of LLC’s or third party’s discovery responses that may contradict the  allegations of the TAXC.  (Big Valley  Band of Pomo Indians v. Superior Court (2005) 133 Cal.App.4th 1185, 1191.)  Shabnam is alleged to be LLC’s  principal.  (TAXC par. 32.)  Otherwise, Richard’s request for judicial  notice as to exhibit 1 is GRANTED but only as to its existence and not as to  any hearsay or facts in dispute. Faezeh and Melica’s opposition  made a request to file a fourth amended cross-complaint.  The request for affirmative relief is  improper because making the request in an opposition to a motion deprived LLC  from sufficient notice and opportunity to be heard.  Faezeh and Melica’s request to file a fourth  amended cross-complaint is DENIED WITHOUT PREJUDICE.   Discussion A motion for judgment on the  pleadings has the same function as a demurrer and tests the legal sufficiency  of the pleading, the TAXC.  As its first  argument, LLC argued that it has capacity to defend and/or file the instant  motion despite Cross-Complainants’ allegation that LLC, an entity organized in  the state of Washington, was “administratively dissolved” in 2012.  (TAXC pars. 32-33.)  Cross-Complainants’ argued that LLC is  prohibited from defending in this action because LLC failed to register or pay  fees to conduct business in California per California Revenue and Taxation Code  section 23301 and Timberline, Inc. v. Jaisinghani (1997) 54 Cal.App.4th 1361;  Ransome-Crummey Co. v. Superior Court (1922) 188 Cal. 393, 396-397;  Alhambra-Shumway Mines, Inc. v. Alhambra Gold Mine Corp. (1957) 155 Cal.App.2d  46, 50-51.  However, the Revenue and  Taxation Code section 23301 and the case law cited are inapplicable to the  issues presented because LLC was not a “suspended” LLC.  As alleged by Cross-Complainants, LLC was  “administratively dissolved” by the state of Washington.  Suspension and administrative dissolution are  completely different actions.   Cross-Complainants argument relying upon California law related to  suspended entities is unpersuasive.      Cross-Complainants further failed  to present any legal authority to support their contention that dissolution of  a foreign limited liability corporation, whether through voluntary or  involuntary dissolution, terminates its capacity as a “person.”  A limited liability corporation remains in  existence, as a “person,” after dissolution in order to wind up its affairs  and/or defend actions against its remaining assets, as authorized by both  Washington and California law.  (Revised  Code of Washington 23.95.610(3) or Corp. Code, sec. 17707.04.)  The LLC has capacity to defend against this  action and/or file the instant motion. As to the sixteenth COA for quiet  title and seventeenth COA for declaratory relief regarding the property located  in Tarzana, California, (Karen Property,) LLC argued that Cross-Complainants  have no rights/interest in the Karen Property based upon the December 21, 2021  quitclaim deed from Shabnam Akhoundzadeh (Shabnam) to Ebrahim Khatibi  (Ebrahim.)  (TAXC pars. 38, 170, Exh.  6)   However, LLC’s argument defending  against the two COAs and relying upon the December 21, 2021 quitclaim deed is  unpersuasive because Cross-Complainants alleged that LLC/Shabnam’s transfer of  the Karen Property to Ebrahim was fraudulent and without any rights/interest in  the Karen Property due to the prior April 18, 2019 grant deed conveying the  Karen Property from the LLC to Faezeh.   (TAXC pars. 35, 169, Exh. 5.)   LLC’s argument disputes the veracity of Cross-Complainants claims as to  quiet title and declaratory relief related to the Karen Property.  At the pleading stage, Cross-Complainants  factual allegations are deemed true.   LLC’s argument is not persuasive against the quiet title and declaratory  relief COAs. LLC then argued that there can be  no quiet title or declaratory relief claim under the Uniform Voidable Transfers  Act (UVTA; Civ. Code, sec. 3439 et seq.)   However, the TAXC does not allege a claim for UVTA and the UVTA is not  grounds for the quiet title or declaratory relief COAs.  It would appear that LLC is arguing that they  assert no legal or title interest to the Karen Property and thus are improperly  joined to these claims.  However, at the  pleading stage, the claims alleged are deemed true and LLC’s argument would  require review of facts beyond the four corners of the pleading and/or judicial  notice.  The argument is not persuasive. LLC then argued the defense of  litigation privilege.  (Civ. Code, sec.  47(b)(2).)  However, applying the  litigation privilege requires a review of facts outside the four corners of the  pleading and/or facts not judicially noticeable since Cross-Complainants  alleged that the December 2021 quitclaim deed from LLC/Shabnam to Ebrahim was  fraudulent.  Litigation privilege, at  this pleading stage, is inapplicable due to the fraud allegations.  LLC’s argument against quiet title and  declaratory relief based upon the defense of litigation privilege is  unpersuasive. LLC argued the defense of unclean  hands bars the quiet title and declaratory relief claims related to the Karen  Property.  LLC asserted that the April  2019 grant deed was signed by Cross-Complainant Melica, who is or was not the  managing director of LLC at that time.   However, LLC failed to present any facts within the TAXC or facts  judicially noticeable to support their contention.  LLC’s reliance upon an uncertified printout  of Washington’s Secretary of State’s   webpage and allegations in TAXC pars. 32-33 are insufficient to show  LLC’s state of affairs in 2019.  Because  the motion for judgment on the pleadings is limited to the facts alleged in the  pleading, LLC’s argument is unsupported and unpersuasive, at this time.   LLC’s motion against the  sixteenth and seventeenth COAs is DENIED. The third COA for breach of the  covenant of good faith and fair dealing may not seek tort damages other than  for insurance contracts.  (Chu v. Old  Republic Home Protection Company, Inc. (2021) 60 Cal.App.5th 346, 354  (Chu.))  “Because the covenant of good  faith and fair dealing essentially is a contract term that aims to effectuate  the contractual intentions of the parties, ‘compensation for its breach has  almost always been limited to contract rather than tort remedies.’ [Citations.]  At present, this court recognizes only one exception to that general rule: tort  remedies are available for a breach of the covenant in cases involving  insurance policies. [Citations.]”   (Id.)  Because the opinion of the  Court of Appeal is to limit tort remedies for breach of the covenant to  insurance policies, the COA is not sufficiently alleged because no insurance  policy is at issue.  Cross-Complainants’  opposition did not dispute the argument. LLC’s motion against the third  COA is GRANTED WITHOUT LEAVE TO AMEND.  The fifth COA for UCL violation  is insufficiently pled with supportive facts regarding the element of unfair, unlawful,  or fraudulent acts.  There is no  allegation citing to a statute being borrowed.   There is insufficient fact pleading to show unfairness or fraud that  affects the general public or a consumer.   It is undisputable that this COA is grounded on disputes between family  members in a business venture.  But none  of the alleged wrongs involved the general public or a consumer.  Because there are insufficient facts pled to  show unfairness or fraud perpetrated against the general public or a consumer,  LLC’s arguments are persuasive.   Cross-Complainants did not dispute the arguments. LLC’s motion against the fifth  COA is GRANTED WITHOUT LEAVE TO AMEND.  The sixth COA for accounting, the  seventh COA for open book account, the eighth COA for quantum meruit, and the  tenth COA for dissolution of the joint venture and AEK are grounded on  Cross-Complainants’ interest in the joint venture and/or alleged services  provided to the joint venture.  (TAXC  pars. 125, 129, 131, and 141.)  The TAXC  failed to allege that LLC is a member of the joint venture.  Without facts alleging membership in the  joint venture, the claim for accounting, open book account, quantum meruit, and  dissolution as to the joint venture or its assets is insufficiently  alleged.  The argument is  persuasive.  Cross-Complainants did not  dispute the arguments. LLC’s motion against the sixth,  seventh, eighth and tenth COAs is GRANTED WITHOUT LEAVE TO AMEND.[1] Due to some of the parties’ shared last names, the
Court identified the parties by their first name so as to avoid confusion.  The Court means no disrespect.[2] Cross-Complainants
may be trying to argue that a foreign limited liability corporation is required
to obtain a Certificate of Registration to transact business in
California.  (Corp. Code, sec. 17708.02.)  However, even if Cross-Complainants did mean
to argue this statute, it should be noted that the failure to obtain the
certificate does not bar the foreign limited liability corporation from
defending itself from a California lawsuit. 
(Corp. Code, sec. 17708.07(b).)] [TENTATIVE] ORDER:  Defendants/Cross-Complainants Faezeh Afchehe  and Melica Khatibi’s Motion to Consolidate is GRANTED.  Case no. 21VECV00692 is assigned as the Lead  Case. Cross-Defendant/Cross-Complainant  Ebrahim Khatibi’s request for judicial notice is GRANTED as to the existence of  the documents but not as to hearsay or facts in dispute. Introduction  Defendants/Cross-Complainants  Faezeh Afchehe (Faezeh) and Melica Khatibi (Melica) (collectively  Cross-Complainants) moved to consolidate the instant action with Richard  Khatibi, Faezeh Afchehe, Melica Khatibi v. Ebrahim Khatibi, Shabnam  Akhoundzadeh (Super. Ct. Los Angeles County, pending, No. 23STCV13564 (New  Action).  The Court granted relation of  the two cases on June 14, 2023.   Cross-Defendant/Cross-Complainant Ebrahim Khatibi (Ebrahim) filed an  opposition.  A reply was filed by moving  parties.   Discussion   Consolidating two cases requires  a showing of common questions of law or fact.   (Code Civ. Proc. sec. 1048.)   Cross-Complainants provide facts to show that the Third Amended Cross-Complaint  in the instant action and the Complaint in the New Action involve common  questions of fact (i.e., ownership interest in property located on Karen Drive  in Tarzana, California (Karen Property.)   Cross-Complainants met their initial burden to show common questions of  fact between the two actions. Ebrahim argued that the filing of  the New Action was in violation of Code of Civil Procedure section 426.30  prohibiting compulsory cross-complaints to be filed in other actions or  requiring compulsory cross-complaints to be filed within the instant action.  Ebrahim also argued that the complaint in the  New Action is barred by judicial estoppel because the allegations in the New  Action are contradictory to the allegations in the instant action.  However, neither of Ebrahim’s arguments  address the issue presented – whether the two actions have or have not common  questions of law or fact.  Issues as to  the procedural compliance of the New Action’s complaint or veracity or  sufficiency of the factual allegations or legal theories alleged in the New  Action’s complaint are not proper issues to be raised in an opposition to a  motion to consolidate.  Ebrahim’s  opposition failed to present any facts or legal argument to show that the two  actions do not share common questions of law or fact.  Ebrahim’s opposition is unpersuasive. IT IS SO ORDERED, CLERK TO GIVE  NOTICE.