 Case Number:  21STCV43901    Hearing Date:   April 16, 2024    Dept:  28 Having
considered the moving, opposition, and reply papers, the Court rules as
follows. 
BACKGROUND 
On
December 1, 2021, Plaintiff Cedric Taite (“Plaintiff”) filed this action
against Defendants Omar Penaloza (“Penaloza”), J.J. Associates Inc., and Does
1-10 for negligence. 
On
March 2, 2023, Plaintiff amended the complaint to include Defendant J.J Kane
Associates, Inc. (“Kane”) as Doe 1. 
On
March 6, 2023, the Court dismissed Defendant J.J Associates, Inc. without
prejudice at Plaintiff’s request. 
On
April 19, 2023, Penaloza and Kane filed answers. 
On
March 19, 2024, Plaintiff filed motions for terminating sanctions against Penaloza
and Kane.  On March 29, 2024, Penaloza
filed an opposition. On April 3, 2024, Kane filed an opposition.  On April 8, 2024, Plaintiff filed replies. 
The
trial is currently set for August 29, 2024. 
PARTIES’ REQUESTS 
Plaintiff
asks the Court to issue terminating sanctions or, in the alternative,
evidentiary or issue sanctions against Penaloza and Kane and to award monetary sanctions. 
Penaloza
and Kane ask the Court to deny the motions. 
LEGAL STANDARD 
A.   Monetary, issue, evidentiary, and terminating
sanctions 
Code
of Civil Procedure section 2023.030 provides in part: 
“To the extent authorized by the chapter governing any
particular discovery method or any other provision of this title, the court,
after notice to any affected party, person, or attorney, and after opportunity
for hearing, may impose the following sanctions against anyone engaging in
conduct that is a misuse of the discovery process: 
“(a) The court may impose a monetary sanction ordering
that one engaging in the misuse of the discovery process, or any attorney
advising that conduct, or both pay the reasonable expenses, including
attorney’s fees, incurred by anyone as a result of that conduct. The court may
also impose this sanction on one unsuccessfully asserting that another has
engaged in the misuse of the discovery process, or on any attorney who advised
that assertion, or on both. If a monetary sanction is authorized by any provision
of this title, the court shall impose that sanction unless it finds that the
one subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other
circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust. 
“(b) The court may impose an
issue sanction ordering that designated facts shall be taken as established in
the action in accordance with the claim of the party adversely affected by the
misuse of the discovery process. The court may also impose an issue sanction by
an order prohibiting any party engaging in the misuse of the discovery process
from supporting or opposing designated claims or defenses. 
“(c) The
court may impose an evidence sanction by an order prohibiting any party
engaging in the misuse of the discovery process from introducing designated
matters in evidence. 
“(d) The court may impose a terminating sanction by
one of the following orders: 
“(1) An order striking out the pleadings or parts of
the pleadings of any party engaging in the misuse of the discovery process. 
“(2) An order staying further proceedings by that
party until an order for discovery is obeyed. 
“(3) An order dismissing the action, or any part of
the action, of that party. 
“(4) An order rendering a judgment by default against
that party. 
“(e) The court may impose a contempt sanction by an
order treating the misuse of the discovery process as a contempt of court. 
“(f) (1) Notwithstanding subdivision (a), or any other
section of this title, absent exceptional circumstances, the court shall not
impose sanctions on a party or any attorney of a party for failure to provide
electronically stored information that has been lost, damaged, altered, or
overwritten as the result of the routine, good faith operation of an electronic
information system. 
“(2) This subdivision shall not be construed to alter
any obligation to preserve discoverable information. 
(Code Civ.
Proc., § 2023.030.)         

B.   Sanctions for failure to comply with Court order to
respond to demand for inspection 
          Code of Civil Procedure section 2031.300, subdivision (c),
provides in part: 
“If
a party . . . fails to obey [an] order [under Code of Civil Procedure section
2031.300, subdivision (b)] compelling a response [to a demand for inspection,
copying, testing, or sampling], the court may make those orders that are just,
including the imposition of an issue sanction, an evidence sanction, or a
terminating sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010). In
lieu of or in addition to this sanction, the court may impose a monetary
sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010).” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.300,
subd. (c).)               
C.   Sanctions for failure to comply with Court order to
respond to interrogatories 
Code
of Civil Procedure section 2030.290, subdivision (c), provides in part: 
“If
a party then fails to obey an order [under Code of Civil Procedure section
2030.290, subdivision (b)] compelling answers [to interrogatories], the court
may make those orders that are just, including the imposition of an issue
sanction, an evidence sanction, or a terminating sanction under Chapter 7
(commencing with Section 2023.010). In lieu of or in addition to that sanction,
the court may impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with
Section 2023.010).” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.290, subd. (c).) 
A
violation of a discovery order supports the imposition of terminating
sanctions. (Collison & Kaplan v. Hartunian (1994) 21 Cal.App.4th
1611, 1620.) Terminating sanctions are appropriate when a party persists in
disobeying the court's orders. (Deyo v. Kilbourne (1978) 84 Cal.App.3d
771, 795-796 (Deyo).) 
A
terminating sanction is a "drastic measure which should be employed with
caution." (Deyo, supra, 84 Cal.App.3d at p. 793.) "A
decision to order terminating sanctions should not be made lightly. But where a
violation is willful, preceded by a history of abuse, and the evidence shows
that less severe sanctions would not produce compliance with the discovery
rules, the trial court is justified in imposing the ultimate sanction." (Mileikowsky v. Tenet Healthsystem (2005)
128 Cal.App.4th 262, 279-280 (Mileikowsky).)   
DISCUSSION 
A.   Plaintiff’s motion for terminating sanctions against
Penaloza 
On
November 7, 2023, the Court granted Plaintiff’s unopposed motions to compel
Penaloza’s responses to form interrogatories, special interrogatories, request for
production of documents, and requests for admission.  The Court ordered Penaloza to provide
verified code-compliant responses to the interrogatories, requests for
admission, and request for production of documents without objections by
December 7, 2023 and to produce the documents, electronically stored information,
and/or other things requested without objections by December 7, 2023. 
Plaintiff’s counsel agreed to extend the deadline for Penaloza to
comply with the Court’s November 7, 2023 order to January 5, 2024. 
On January 5, 2024, Penaloza served responses without
verifications.  Penaloza did not produce
any documents in response to Plaintiff’s request for production.  Plaintiff’s counsel sent Penaloza’s counsel a
meet and confer letter explaining the deficiencies in Penaloza's responses, but
Penaloza’s counsel did not respond. 
Arguing that unverified responses are the equivalent
of no responses, Plaintiff asks the Court to impose terminating sanctions, strike
Penaloza’s answer, and enter his default. 
In the alternative, Plaintiff asks the Court to impose evidentiary sanctions
barring Penaloza from introducing any evidence at trial, or issue sanctions
prohibiting Penaloza from asserting any defenses. 
Penaloza responds that the failure to provide a verification
was not willful but instead resulted from his counsel’s extended physical
absence from the office due to a medical condition.  Penaloza asserts that terminating,
evidentiary, and issue sanctions therefore are not appropriate. 
The Court denies Plaintiff’s request for terminating
sanctions.  Penaloza has violated one
discovery order to date.  Plaintiff has
not shown that less severe sanctions would be ineffective in producing
compliance with the discovery rules. (See Mileikowsky, supra, 128
Cal.App.4th at pp. 279-280.)  The Court
also denies Plaintiff’s request for evidence and issue sanctions, which would be
equivalent to the terminating sanctions that the Court has determined are
premature. 
Plaintiff requests monetary sanctions of $1,061.65.  Sanctions are authorized by Code of Civil
Procedure sections 2031.300, subdivision (c) (failure to comply with order
compelling response to demand for inspection) and 2030.290, subdivision (c)
(failure to comply with order compelling response to interrogatories).  The request is based on four hours of
attorney time at a rate of $250.00 per hour and one $61.65 filing fee.  Counsel spent “well over two hours to
research, prepare and draft [the] motion” and anticipated that it would take “well
over one hour to research, prepare and draft a reply to Defendant’s opposition”
and “well over one hour to prepare for, appear for and argue the motion.” 
The Court grants sanctions of $561.65 based on two
hours of attorney time and one filing fee. 
B.   Plaintiff’s motion for terminating sanctions against
Kane 
On
November 9, 2023, the Court granted Plaintiff’s unopposed motions to compel
Kane’s responses form interrogatories, special interrogatories, request for
production of documents, and requests for admission.  The Court ordered Kane to provide verified
code-compliant responses to the interrogatories, requests for admission, and
request for production of documents without objections by December 9, 2023 and
to produce the documents, electronically stored information, and/or other
things requested without objections by December 9, 2023. 
Plaintiff’s
counsel agreed to extend the deadline for Kane to comply with the Court’s November 9,
2023 order to January 5, 2024. 
On
January 5, 2024, Kane served responses without verifications.  Kane did not produce any documents in
response to Plaintiff’s request for production. 
Plaintiff’s counsel sent Kane’s counsel a meet and confer letter
explaining the deficiencies in Kane's responses, but Kane’s counsel did not
respond. 
Arguing
that unverified responses are the equivalent of no responses, Plaintiff asks
the Court to impose terminating sanctions, strike Kane’s answer, and enter its default.  In the alternative, Plaintiff
asks the Court to impose evidentiary sanctions barring Kane from introducing
any evidence at trial, or impose issue sanctions prohibiting Kane from asserting any
defenses. 
Kane
responds that the failure to provide a verification was not willful but instead
resulted from its counsel’s extended physical absence from the office due to a
medical condition.  Kane asserts that
terminating, evidentiary, and issue sanctions therefore are not appropriate. 
The
Court denies Plaintiff’s request for terminating sanctions.  Kane has violated one discovery order to
date.  Plaintiff has not shown that less
severe sanctions would be ineffective in producing compliance with the
discovery rules. (See Mileikowsky, supra, 128 Cal.App.4th at pp.
279-280.)  The Court also denies
Plaintiff’s request for evidence and issue sanctions, which would be equivalent
to the terminating sanctions that the Court has determined are premature. 
Plaintiff
requests monetary sanctions of $1,061.65. 
Sanctions are authorized by Code of Civil Procedure sections 2031.300,
subdivision (c) (failure to comply with order compelling response to demand for
inspection) and 2030.290, subdivision (c) (failure to comply with order
compelling response to interrogatories). 
The request is based on four hours of attorney time at a rate of $250.00
per hour and one $61.65 filing fee. 
Counsel spent “well over two hours to research, prepare and draft this
motion” and anticipated that it would take “well over one hour to research,
prepare and draft a reply to Defendant’s opposition” and “well over one hour to
prepare for, appear for and argue the motion.” 
The
Court grants sanctions of $561.65 based on two hours of attorney time and one
filing fee. 
CONCLUSION 
The Court GRANTS IN PART Plaintiff Cedric Taite’s motion
for terminating sanctions against Defendant Omar Penaloza and orders Defendant
Omar Penaloza and his counsel to pay Plaintiff Cedric Taite $561.65 by May 16, 2024.  In all other respects, the Court DENIES the
motion. 
The
Court GRANTS IN PART Plaintiff Cedric Taite’s motion for terminating sanctions
against Defendant J.J. Kane Associates, Inc. and orders Defendant J.J Kane
Associates, Inc. and its counsel to pay Plaintiff Cedric Taite $561.65 by May
16, 2024.  In all other respects, the
Court DENIES the motion. 
The Court ORDERS Defendant Omar Penaloza to comply
with the Court’s November 7, 2023 order by April 23, 2024. 
The
Court ORDERS Defendant J.J. Kane Associates, Inc. to comply with the Court’s
November 9, 2023 order by April 23, 2024. 
Moving
party is ordered to give notice of this ruling. 
Moving
party is ordered to file a proof of service of this ruling with the Court
within five days.