 Case Number:  19STCV45754    Hearing Date:   April 16, 2024    Dept:  28 Having
considered the moving papers, the Court rules as follows. 
BACKGROUND 
On
December 20, 2019, Plaintiffs Cheraya Johnson, Bydon Pass, Amiri Green, Brynean
Ross, and Bry Azia Ross filed this action against Defendants LA County Metro
and Does 1-10 for motor vehicle tort and general negligence. 
On
February 3, 2020, Defendant Los Angeles County Metropolitan Transportation
Authority (“Metro”) filed an answer. 
On
July 6, 2021, Plaintiffs amended the complaint to include Defendant Antonio
Becerra as Doe 1. 
On
May 30, 2023, Metro filed a motion for summary judgment or summary adjudication
to be heard on April 16, 2024. 
Plaintiffs have not filed an opposition. 
Trial
is scheduled for May 17, 2024. 
PARTY’S REQUEST 
Metro
asks the Court to grant summary judgment or summary adjudication of the claims
of Plaintiffs Bry Azia Ross, Byjon Ross
(erroneously named “Bydon Pass”), Brynean Ross (erroneously named “Brynean
Pass”), and Amiri Green. 
REQUEST FOR JUDICIAL
NOTICE:  Denied 
LEGAL STANDARD 
A.   Summary judgment and summary adjudication 
“‘[F]rom
commencement to conclusion, the party moving for summary judgment bears the
burden of persuasion that there is no triable issue of material fact and that
he is entitled to judgment as a matter of law.’”  (LAOSD Asbestos Cases (2023) 87
Cal.App.5th 949, 945, quoting Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001)
25 Cal.4th 826, 850 (Aguilar).) “[T]he party moving for summary judgment
bears an initial burden of production to make a prima facie showing of the
nonexistence of any triable issue of material fact; if he carries his burden of
production, he causes a shift, and the opposing party is then subjected to a
burden of production of his own to make a prima facie showing of the existence
of a triable issue of material fact.”  (Aguilar,
supra, 25 Cal.4th at p. 850.)  
          When the moving party is a
defendant, it must show that the plaintiff cannot establish at least one
element of the cause of action.  (Aguilar,
supra, 25 Cal.4th at p. 853.) “The defendant has shown that the
plaintiff cannot establish at least one element of the cause of action by
showing that the plaintiff does not possess, and cannot reasonably obtain,
needed evidence.”  (Id. at p.
854.) The defendant must “present evidence, and not simply point out that the
plaintiff does not possess, and cannot reasonably obtain, needed
evidence.”  (Ibid.) Thus, “the
defendant must ‘support[ ]’ the ‘motion’ with evidence including ‘affidavits,
declarations, admissions, answers to interrogatories, depositions, and matters
of which judicial notice’ must or may ‘be taken.’ [Citation.] The defendant
may, but need not, present evidence that conclusively negates an element of the
plaintiff’s cause of action. The defendant may also present evidence that the
plaintiff does not possess, and cannot reasonably obtain, needed evidence—as
through admissions by the plaintiff following extensive discovery to the effect
that he has discovered nothing.”  (Id.
at p. 855, original emphasis.)  
          “Supporting and opposing affidavits or declarations . . .
shall set forth admissible evidence.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (d).)
“Matters which would be excluded under the rules of evidence if proffered by a
witness in a trial as hearsay, conclusions or impermissible opinions, must be
disregarded in supporting affidavits.”  (Hayman
v. Block (1986) 176 Cal.App.3d 629, 639.) 
          In addition, a party moving for summary judgment or summary
adjudication must support the motion with “a separate statement setting forth
plainly and concisely all material facts which the moving party contends are
undisputed. Each of the material facts stated shall be followed by a reference
to the supporting evidence.” (Parkview Villas Assn. v. State Farm Fire &
Casualty Co. (2006) 133 Cal.App.4th 1197, 1209 (Parkview Villas),
quoting Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (b)(1) [motion for summary judgment];
see Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (f)(2) [motion for summary adjudication
“shall proceed in all procedural respects as a motion for summary judgment”].)
The party opposing the motion must file with the opposition papers “a separate
statement that responds to each of the material facts contended by the moving
party to be undisputed, indicating whether the opposing party agrees or
disagrees that those facts are undisputed. The statement also shall set forth
plainly and concisely any other material facts that the opposing party contends
are disputed. Each material fact contended by the opposing party to be disputed
shall be followed by a reference to the supporting evidence.” (Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 437c, subd. (b)(3).)  If either party
fails to comply with the applicable separate statement requirement, that
failure may in the court’s discretion constitute a sufficient ground to decide
the motion adversely to the offending party. (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subds.
(b)(1), (3).)   
          In ruling on the motion, the court
must consider all of the evidence and all of the inferences reasonably drawn
from it and must view such evidence and inferences in the light most favorable
to the opposing party.  (Aguilar, supra,
25 Cal.4th at p. 843.)  “[A] court
cannot grant summary judgment based on inferences that are contradicted by
other inferences or evidence. And a triable issue of fact exists when the
evidence permits a reasonable trier of fact to find a contested fact in favor
of the party opposing the motion. 
[Citation.] Put slightly differently, a summary judgment may not be
granted unless the evidence is incapable of supporting a judgment for the
losing party.” (California-American Water Co. v. Marina Coast Water Dist.
(2022) 86 Cal.App.5th 1272, 1296.) 
B.   Claim presentation requirement 
Government
Code section 910 provides: 
“A claim shall be presented by the claimant or by a
person acting on his or her behalf and shall show all of the following: 
“(a) The name and post office address of the claimant. 
“(b) The post office address to which the person
presenting the claim desires notices to be sent. 
“(c) The date, place and other circumstances of the
occurrence or transaction which gave rise to the claim asserted. 
“(d) A general description of the indebtedness,
obligation, injury, damage or loss incurred so far as it may be known at the
time of presentation of the claim. 
“(e) The name or names of the public employee or
employees causing the injury, damage, or loss, if known. 
“(f) The amount claimed if it totals less than ten
thousand dollars ($10,000) as of the date of presentation of the claim,
including the estimated amount of any prospective injury, damage, or loss,
insofar as it may be known at the time of the presentation of the claim,
together with the basis of computation of the amount claimed. If the amount
claimed exceeds ten thousand dollars ($10,000), no dollar amount shall be
included in the claim.  However, it shall
indicate whether the claim would be a limited civil case.” 
(Gov.
Code, § 910.) Government Code section 911.2
provides: “(a) A claim relating to a cause of action for death
or for injury to person or to personal property or growing crops shall be
presented as provided in Article 2 (commencing with Section 915) not later than
six months after the accrual of the cause of action. A claim relating to any
other cause of action shall be presented as provided in Article 2 (commencing
with Section 915) not later than one year after the accrual of the cause of
action. “(b) For purposes of determining whether a claim was
commenced within the period provided by law, the date the claim was presented
to the Department of General Services is one of the following: “(1) The date the claim is submitted with a
twenty-five dollar ($25) filing fee. “(2) If a fee waiver is granted, the date the claim
was submitted with the affidavit requesting the fee waiver. “(3) If a fee waiver is denied, the date the claim was
submitted with the affidavit requesting the fee waiver, provided the filing fee
is paid to the department within 10 calendar days of the mailing of the notice
of the denial of the fee waiver.” (Gov. Code, § 911.2.) 
Government
Code section 911.4 provides in part: 
“(a) When a claim that is required by Section 911.2 to
be presented not later than six months after the accrual of the cause of action
is not presented within that time, a written application may be made to the
public entity for leave to present that claim. 
“(b) The application shall be presented to the public
entity as provided in Article 2 (commencing with Section 915) within a
reasonable time not to exceed one year after the accrual of the cause of action
and shall state the reason for the delay in presenting the claim. The proposed
claim shall be attached to the application.” 
(Gov. Code, § 911.4, subds.
(a), (b).) 
“Under
the Tort Claims Act, a plaintiff may not maintain an action for money or
damages against a public entity unless first a written claim has been presented
to the public entity and rejected in whole or in part or deemed rejected by
operation of law.”  (Sofranek v.
County of Merced (2007) 146 Cal.App.4th 1238, 1246 (Sofranek),
quoting Gov. Code, §§ 905, 905.2, 945.4.) 
“Failure to timely present a claim for money or damages to a public
entity bars a plaintiff from filing a lawsuit against that entity.”  (Ibid., citing State of California
v. Superior Court (Bodde) (2004) 32 Cal.4th 1234, 1245.) “Before a cause of
action may be stated, a plaintiff must allege either compliance with this
procedure or circumstances excusing compliance.” (Ibid.) 
DISCUSSION 
A.   The complaint 
The
complaint alleges that on March 18, 2019, on Long Beach Boulevard and the
entrance to the 105 freeway, Metro’s employee negligently drove a vehicle,
injuring Plaintiffs. 
B.   Undisputed facts 
Plaintiffs
Bry Azia Ross, Brynean Ross, and Amiri Green (“Minor Plaintiffs”), and Plaintiff
Byjon Ross allege that on March 18, 2019 they were passengers in a vehicle Plaintiff
Cheraya Johnson was driving when they sustained injuries from a collision with
a Metro bus. 
LACMTA
is a public entity. 
Six
months after the March 18, 2019 accident was September 19, 2019, and one year
after the March 18, 2019 accident was March 19, 2020. 
On
September 8, 2021, more than a year after the accident, Plaintiff Bry Azia Ross
filed a tort claim concerning the accident. On September 8, 2021, more than a
year after the accident, Plaintiff Brynean Ross filed a tort claim concerning
the accident.  On September 8, 2021, more
than a year after the accident, Plaintiff Amiri Green filed a tort claim
concerning the accident.  Plaintiff Byjon
Ross never filed a tort claim concerning the accident. 
On
September 16, 2021, Metro’s third-party claims administrator, Carl Warren &
Company, LLC (“Carl Warren”), mailed a notice to Plaintiff Brynean Ross that
the tort claim was not timely filed.  On
September 16, 2021, Carl Warren mailed a notice to Plaintiff Bry Azia Ross that
the tort claim was not timely filed.  On September 16, 2021, Carl Warren mailed a
notice to Plaintiff Amiri Green that the tort claim was not timely filed. 
On
October 7, 2021, more than one year after the accident, Plaintiff Brynean Ross
presented an Application for Leave to Present a New Claim.  On October 7, 2021, more than one year after
the accident, Plaintiff Bry Azia Ross presented an Application for Leave to
Present a New Claim.  On October 7, 2021, more than one year after
the accident, Plaintiff Amiri Green presented an Application for Leave to
Present a New Claim.  Plaintiff Byjon Ross never presented an
Application for Leave to Present a New Claim. 
C.   Legal arguments 
Metro
has presented evidence showing that Plaintiffs Bry Azia
Ross, Byjon Ross (erroneously named “Bydon Pass”), Brynean Ross (erroneously
named “Brynean Pass”), and Amiri Green (1) failed to timely file
governmental tort claims under Government Code section 911.2 and (2) failed to
file timely applications for leave to file late claims under Government code
section 911.4. 
Metro
has carried its initial burden on summary judgment.  Plaintiffs have not filed an opposition and
therefore have not raised a triable issue of fact. 
The
Court grants the motion. 
CONCLUSION 
The
Court GRANTS Defendant Los Angeles County Metropolitan Transportation Authority’s
motion for summary judgment against Plaintiffs Bry Azia Ross, Byjon Ross (erroneously named “Bydon Pass”), Brynean
Ross (erroneously named “Brynean Pass”), and Amiri Green. 
Moving
party is ordered to give notice of this ruling. 
Moving
party is ordered to file the proof of service of this ruling with the Court
within five days.