 Case Number:  24SMCV01394    Hearing Date:   October 23, 2024    Dept:  P Tentative Ruling
Murphy v. LAUSD, Case no. 24SMCV01394
Hearing date October 23, 2024
Defendants’
Motion to Strike Punitive Damages
Minor
plaintiff alleges assault by a school behavioral aid and sues defendants Los
Angeles School District, school principal Salvador, assistant principal Smith
and behaviorist Searcy-Moore for assault, battery, IIED, NIED, negligent
supervision, false imprisonment and negligence. Individual defendants Salvador,
Smith and Searcy-Moore move to strike punitive damages, arguing they improper
as against government officials acting in their official capacities.
Punitive
damages are allowable only when plaintiff proves defendant is guilty of
oppression, fraud or malice. Cal. Civ. Code §3294(a). 
Plaintiff
asserts defendants Salvador, Smith and Searcy-Moore are being sued in both
their official and individual capacities but fails to allege any facts
demonstrating defendants were acting in a capacity outside their official
roles. Plaintiff does not allege defendants’ actions occurred off school
property or outside school hours. Plaintiff alleges moving defendants failed to
properly document the alleged assault, unnecessarily involved law enforcement
and CPS, failed to supervise the behavioral aide and failed to maintain proper
records. Complaint paras. 15, 32-39, 47. Plaintiff’s allegations do not show defendants
acted in a capacity outside their roles as school administrators and employees.
Defendants
argue punitive damages are not recoverable against government officials acting
within the scope of their employment. Gov. Code §818 provides
“[n]otwithstanding any other provision of law, a public entity is not liable
for damages awarded under Section 3294 of the Civil Code or other damages
imposed primarily for the sake of example and by way of punishing the
defendant.” Defendant cites Mitchell v. Dupnik (9th Cir. 1996) 75 F.3d
517, 527, which held in part that an award of punitive damages against a
sheriff acting in his official capacity was an assessment against the county
which was immune from such damages. Id. 
Plaintiff
argues California law allows punitive damages against public employees who act
with reckless disregard or willful misconduct in their individual capacities. Plaintiff
attempts to substantiate this argument with citations the court finds inapplicable
to the instant motion, or which the court could not find.
Plaintiff
cites Gonzalez v. City of San Jose (2004) 125 Cal.App.4th 1127, 1136 to
assert “punitive damages are appropriate when a public employee’s conduct goes
beyond mere negligence and rises to deliberate indifference or recklessness.” Defendant
notes, and the court agrees, that Gonzalez does not address punitive
damages; it addressed issues of government preemption and landowner duties. Plaintiff
also cites Mitchell, arguing the court affirmed that public employees
are not immune from punitive damages when acting with malice or oppression; Mitchell
actually held an award of punitive damages on an otherwise successful §1983
claim was inappropriate as a matter of law. Id. at 527. 
Plaintiff
cites Johnson v. Campbell (2005) 127 Cal.App.4th 1160, 1170, arguing the
court upheld punitive damages where a defendant’s actions showed a conscious
disregard for the plaintiff’s rights. Neither the court nor defendants were
able to locate Johnson as cited. The case at 127 Cal.App.4th 1160 in not
the one cited by plaintiff.
Plaintiff
failed to establish that punitive damages are appropriately awarded against
government officials acting in their official capacity. Thus, the court need
not reach the issue of whether any individual defendant acted with fraud,
oppression or malice. The motion to strike punitive damages (para. 106 of the prayer
at p. 15:26) is GRANTED.