 Case Number:  23STCV28382    Hearing Date:   March 12, 2024    Dept:  51 Tentative Ruling   Judge Upinder S.  Kalra, Department 51   HEARING DATE:   March  12, 2024                                                  CASE NAME:           David  Ryan Sharp v. The County of Los Angeles   CASE NO.:                23STCV28382    MOTION  FOR LEAVE TO FILE SECOND AMENDED COMPLAINT   MOVING PARTY:  Plaintiff  David Ryan Sharp   RESPONDING PARTY(S): Defendant County of Los Angeles   REQUESTED RELIEF:    1.      An  Order granting leave to file the attached Proposed Second Amended Complaint. TENTATIVE RULING:    1.      Plaintiff’s  motion for leave to file a Second Amended Complaint is GRANTED and deemed filed  this date. STATEMENT OF MATERIAL FACTS AND/OR PROCEEDINGS:    On November 20, 2023, Plaintiff David Ryan Sharp (Plaintiff)  filed a Complaint against Defendant The County of Los Angeles (Defendant) with  two causes of action for: (1) Whistleblower Retaliation in Violation of Labor  Code § 1102.5; and (2) Wage Claim in Violation of Labor Code §§ 201-203, 227.3.   According to the Complaint, Plaintiff worked as an Ocean  Lifeguard in Los Angeles County since 2003. Plaintiff alleges that he was  subjected to a baseless age discrimination complaint for reporting a coworkers  for urinating off the back of a boat in public and in front of adult students  Plaintiff was training. Plaintiff further alleges that he was passed up for  promotion in retaliation for reporting this incident and that he was not paid final  wages when his employment ended.   On January 2, 2024, Plaintiff filed a First Amended  Complaint (FAC) with the same causes of action.   On January 12, 2024, Plaintiff filed the instant Motion for  Leave to file a Second Amended Complaint (SAC).   On February 2, 2024, Defendant filed a Demurrer to the FAC.   On February 28, 2024, Defendant filed an Opposition to the  Motion for Leave to File a SAC. On March 5, 2024, Plaintiff filed a reply.   LEGAL STANDARD:    California Code of Civil Procedure (CCP) section 473, subdivision  (a)(1) provides, in relevant part: “The court may, in furtherance of justice,  and on any terms as may be proper, allow a party to amend any pleading or  proceeding by adding or striking out the name of any party, or by correcting a  mistake in the name of a party, or a mistake in any other respect; and may,  upon like terms, enlarge the time for answer or demurrer.¿ The court may  likewise, in its discretion, after notice to the adverse party, allow, upon any  terms as may be just, an amendment to any pleading or proceeding in other  particulars; and may upon like terms allow an answer to be made after the time  limited by this code.”¿¿¿  ¿¿  “This discretion should be exercised liberally in favor of  amendments, for judicial policy favors resolution of all disputed matters in  the same lawsuit.”¿ (Kittredge Sports Co.  v. Superior Court¿(1989) 213 Cal.App.3d 1045, 1047.)¿ Ordinarily, the court  will not consider the validity of the proposed amended pleading in ruling on a  motion for leave since grounds for a demurrer or motion to strike are  premature.¿ The court, however, does have discretion to deny leave to amend  where a proposed amendment fails to state a valid cause of action as a matter  of law and the defect cannot be cured by further amendment.¿ (See¿California Casualty General Ins. Co. v.  Superior Court¿(1985) 173 Cal.App.3d 274, 281 (overruled on other grounds  by¿Kransco¿v. American Empire Surplus  Lines Ins. Co.¿(2000) 23 Cal.4th 390).)¿¿¿  ¿¿  Under California Rules of Court Rule (CRC), rule 3.1324,  subdivision (a), a motion to amend a pleading shall (1) include a copy of the  proposed amendment or amended pleading, which must be serially numbered to  differentiate it from previous pleadings or amendments; (2) state what  allegations in the previous pleading are proposed to be deleted, if any, and  where, by page, paragraph and line number, the deleted allegations are located;  and (3) state what allegations are proposed to be added to the previous pleading,  if any, and where, by page, paragraph, and line number, the additional  allegations are located.¿¿     Under California Rule of Court, rule 3.1324, subdivision (b),  a separate declaration must accompany the motion and must specify (1) the  effect of the amendment; (2) why the amendment is necessary and proper; (3)  when the facts giving rise to the amended allegations were discovered; and (4)  the reasons why the request for amendment was not made earlier.¿¿¿    Request  for Judicial Notice   The court grants Defendant’s request  for judicial notice as to Exhibits A - F. (Evid. Code § 452(d), (h);  See Kalnoki v. First American  Trustee Servicing Solutions, LLC (2017) 8 Cal.App.5th 23,37.) However, the  court only takes judicial notice of the foregoing documents only as to “the  existence, content and authenticity of public records and other specified  documents”; it does not take judicial notice of the truth of the factual  matters asserted in those documents. (Dominguez  v. Bonta (2022) 87 Cal. App. 5th 389, 400.)¿¿    ANALYSIS:    Plaintiff contends the court should grant leave because the  proposed SAC clarifies the theory of liability attributed to Defendant after  meet and confer and Defendant will not be prejudiced by an amendment. Defendant  argues Plaintiff’s proposed amendment is meritless because it would be futile  because Plaintiff cannot establish the second prong of the subject ordinance.  Plaintiff replies that Defendant applies the wrong standard on this motion and  requests judicial notice of a document that Plaintiff has never seen.    Here, Plaintiff complied with CRC, rule 3.1324. First,  Plaintiff included a copy of the proposed Second Amended Complaint. (Baisch  Decl. ¶7, Exhibit A.) Plaintiff also identified the proposed changes to the  pleading. (Baisch Decl. ¶9.) Second, Plaintiff’s submitted a separate  declaration that set forth the effect of the amendment, why the amendment is  necessary and proper, when the facts giving rise to the amended allegations  were discovered, and why the request for amendment was not made earlier (Baisch  Decl. ¶¶ 4, 5, 6, 7, 9, and 10.) Defendant has not challenged Plaintiff’s  motion for being procedurally defective. Instead, Defendant advances argument  that they would be required to file a demurrer to the proposed SAC because it  is legally deficient. While the court appreciates that Defendant considers this  court’s calendar, upon reviewing the papers submitted with the instant motion,  the court exercises its discretion to grant the amendment and proceed with  separate demurrer proceedings.[1]  (Atkinson v. Elk Corp. (2003) 109  Cal.App.4th 739, 760.)   Accordingly, the court GRANTS Plaintiff’s motion for  leave to amend the SAC.  CONCLUSION:             For  the foregoing reasons, the Court decides the pending motion as follows:1.Plaintiff’s motion for leave to  file a Second Amended Complaint is GRANTED and deemed filed this date. The Demurrer to the FAC filed on February 2, 2024, and calendared for March 12, 2024 is now moot. The Demurrer reserved for April 4, 2024 remains on calendar.  Moving party is to give notice.    IT IS SO ORDERED.    Dated:              March 12, 2024                       __________________________________                                                                                                                Upinder  S. Kalra                                                                                     Judge  of the Superior Court       