 Case Number:  24STCV22844    Hearing Date:   January 22, 2025    Dept:  17 Superior Court of California
County of Los
Angeles
 
DEPARTMENT 17
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 



ROBERTO GONZALEZ, et al. 
 
  
        
  vs.
 
GORDON EMERSON 41, LLC, et al. 
  


 Case
  No.:  24STCV22844  
 
 
 
 Hearing Date:  January 22, 2025




 
Defendant’s
demurrer is SUSTAINED, WITH 20 DAYS LEAVE TO AMEND. Accordingly, Defendant’s
motion to strike is MOOT.
 
            On
9/5/2024, Plaintiffs Roberto and Pilar Gonzalez (collectively, Plaintiffs)
filed suit against Gordon Emerson 41, LLC, 1440 Gordon Holdings, LLC, Community
Multi-housing, Inc., Chandler Partners, First Pointe Management Group, LLC, the
Ezralow Company, and Sunset Residences, LLC, alleging: (1) intentional
misrepresentation; (2) constructive fraud; (3) violation of LAMC section
151.01, et seq.; and (4) breach of covenant of good faith and fair
dealing. 
 
            On
12/5/2024, Defendant Sunset Residences, LLC (Defendant) demurred to Plaintiffs’
Complaint. Defendant also moved to strike portions of Plaintiffs’ Complaint. 
 
            The
motion is unopposed. 
 
Factual Background 
 
            Plaintiffs’
Complaint arises out allegations that they were forced to sign leases with
increased rents during COVID, in violation of the annual Los Angeles Rent
Stabilization Ordinance (RSO).
 
Discussion 
 
            Defendant
argues that Plaintiffs’ causes of action are insufficiently pled. 
 
            After
review, the Court agrees. 
 
As for the
first cause of action for intentional misrepresentation, Defendant argues that
Plaintiffs’ claim lack the requisite specificity.  Plaintiffs generally alleges “Defendants”
represented that the Premises was not subject to the RSO, and that they knew
this was false at the time the claim was made. (Complaint ¶¶ 26-31.) 
 
The
specificity requirement means a plaintiff must allege facts showing how, when,
where, to whom, and by what means the representations were made, and, in the
case of a corporate defendant, the plaintiff must allege the names of the
persons who made the representations, their authority to speak on behalf of the
corporation, to whom they spoke, what they said or wrote, and when the
representation was made. (Lazar v. Superior
Court (1996) 12 Cal.4th 631, 645.)” (West
v. JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. (2013) 214 Cal.App.4th 780, 793.)
 
Here, the
lack of specificity of Plaintiffs’ allegations is made clear by the fact that
it is not clear whether or not these alleged misrepresentations were made in
person, the time at which they were made, or by whom. Moreover, given that
Defendants are separate entities, Plaintiffs may not generically allege conduct
by “Defendants” but must specify conduct by each entity. 
 
            As
for the second cause of action for constructive fraud, the elements for a cause
of action for constructive fraud are: (1) the existence of a fiduciary
relationship; (2) nondisclosure of breach of fiduciary duty; (3) intent to
deceive; and (4) reliance and resulting injury. (Stokes v. Henson (1990)
217 Cal.App.3d 17; Prakashpalan v. Engstrom (2014) 223 Cal.App.4th
1105.) Under California law, the relationship between a landlord and tenant is
typically viewed as a contractual one, without the fiduciary obligations that
might exist in other types of relationships. (Frances T. v. Village Gren
Owners Assn., 42 Cal. 3d 490 (1986). In Frances T., the California
Supreme Court noted that a landlord and tenant do not generally stand in a
fiduciary relationship. (Id. at p. 470.)
 
            Here,
Plaintiff alleges “Defendants were Plaintiffs’ landlords” but does not allege a
fiduciary relationship. As such, this cause of action is insufficiently pled. 
 
            As
for the third cause of action, LAMC prohibits landlords to demand, accept or
retain more than the maximum rent permitted, and landlords cannot demand or
accept rent without first procuring and serving on the tenant or displaying in
a conspicuous place a valid registration statement. (LAMC 151.04(A) and
151.05(A).) Moreover, landlords cannot increase rents for one year following a
local emergency. (LAMC 151.32.)
 
            Here,
Plaintiffs allege the improper rent increase to $3,245 occurred in August 2022,
prior to Defendant here acquiring the property (Complaint ¶ 20). Plaintiffs
fail to allege that Defendant here collected or increased rent in violation of
the RSO.  Moreover, Plaintiffs themselves
allege that after purchasing the property in question and later receiving
notice regarding the applicability of the LAMC or the RSO, Defendant submitted
payment to register the units under the RSO with LAHD and Defendant served the
tenants and posted the RSO Registration Statements at the property. (Complaint
¶¶ 22-23) As such, Plaintiffs much allege facts which could show that Defendant
here violated the RSO after taking ownership of the property, rather than
grouping all allegations within a generic “Defendants” allegation.
 
            As
for the fourth cause of action, in Freeman & Mills, Inc. v. Belcher Oil
Co. (1995) 11 Cal.4th 85 (1995), the California Supreme Court noted that it
established a “general rule precluding tort recovery for noninsurance contract
breach, at least in the absence of violation of ‘an independent duty arising
from principles of tort law’ [citation] other than the bad faith denial of the
existence of, or liability under, the breached contract.” (Id. at p.
102.) 
 
            Here,
Plaintiffs have not alleged any violation of a duty arising under tort law.
Rather, Plaintiff alleges that Defendant’s acts and omissions interfered with
Plaintiffs’ rights to receive the benefits of the lease, including overpayment
of rent and other expenses. (Complaint ¶¶ 57-58). As such, Plaintiffs must
allege breach of an independent duty separate and apart from the duty to
perform under the contract.
 
            Based
on the foregoing, Defendant’s demurrer is sustained, with 20 days leave to
amend. Accordingly, Defendant’s motion to strike is moot. 
 
 
 
It is so ordered. 
 
Dated:  January   
, 2025
                                                                                                                                                           
   Hon. Jon R.
Takasugi
   Judge of the
Superior Court
 
 
 
Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must
send an email to the court at smcdept17@lacourt.org
by 4 p.m. the day prior as directed by the instructions provided on the court
website at www.lacourt.org.  If a party submits
on the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must
identify the party submitting on the tentative. 
If all parties to a motion submit, the court will adopt this
tentative as the final order.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  For more information, please contact the court clerk at (213) 633-0517.  
 
  
 