 Case Number:  23STCV02085    Hearing Date:   January 22, 2025    Dept:  17 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
 
DEPARTMENT
17
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 



SEBASTIAN DONOVAN, et al
 
  
        
  vs.
 
QUANTGENE, INC.,
  et al.
 


 Case
  No.:  23STCV02085 
 
 
 
 Hearing Date:  January 22, 2025




QUANTGENE, INC., et al.
 
            vs.
 
SEBASTIAN DONOVAN, et al.










 

Quantgene’s
motion for leave to amend to file a FAXC is DENIED. 
 
On 1/31/2023,
Plaintiffs Sebastian Donovan and Arconex (collectively, Plaintiffs) filed suit
against Quantgene, Inc. and Johannes Bhakdi (collectively, Defendants),
alleging: (1) breach of contract; (2) breach of implied covenant of good faith
and fair dealing; (3) unjust enrichment; (4) intentional misrepresentation; (5)
negligent misrepresentation; and (6) violation of Business and Professions Code
section 17200.
 
            On
3/3/2022, Cross-Complainants Quantgene, Inc. and Johannes Bhakdi filed a
cross-complaint (XC) against Cross-Defendants Sebastian Donovan and Arconex,
alleging: (1) breach of contract; (2) breach of implied covenant of good faith
and fair dealing; (3) false promise; (4) intentional misrepresentation; (5)
concealment; (6) negligent misrepresentation; (7) conversion; (8) unjust
enrichment; (9) intentional interference with contractual relations; and (10)
unfair business practices. 
 
            On
12/24/2024, Quantgene moved for leave to file a first amended cross-complaint
(FAXC).
 
Discussion 
 
            Quantgene
seeks leave to amend to add causes of action for breach of contract, fraud, and
unjust enrichment. Quantgene contends that the proposed FAXC arises from the
same transactions and occurrences at issue in the original complaint, and that
it does not have any reason to believe that substantial additional discovery
will need to be completed as to its cross-claims.
 
            In
support, Quantgene contends that it did not have the facts to support these
claims available to it at the time of initial filing. Rather, Quantgene said it
learned of the facts supporting these claims at the recent depositions of key
witnesses in summer 2024.
 
            In
opposition, Plaintiffs contend that Quantgene’s delay is unreasonable, coming
over 16 months after its deadline to amend. Plaintiff notes that Quantgene
actually filed a motion to further extend deadlines, only to then withdraw that
motion. 
 
            After
review, the Court finds Quantgene’s delay to be unreasonable. 
 
            By
its own admission, Quantgene waited roughly six months to move to amend their
cross-complaint, despite the April 2025 trial date. 
 
In A.N. v.
Cnty. Of Los Angeles (2009) 171 Cal.App.4th 1058, 1068, the Court affirmed
the trial court’s denial of leave to amend, finding that the record “belies a
finding that the delay in filing the [amendment] until August 2007 was
reasonable” and explaining that, even if the plaintiff there learned of the
basis to amend from depositions between December 2006-February 2007, it was
unreasonable to wait until August 2007 (i.e. approximately 6 months, roughly
the same period of time Quantgene waited after the depositions here) to seek to
amend.
 
In another
case, even where a party waited only a month after a deadline before attempting
to amend, the Court of Appeal affirmed the trial court’s decision as correct
when it denied leave to amend. (See Leader v. Health Indus. Of Am., Inc.
(2001) 89 Cal. App. 4th 603, 614 (“Plaintiffs did not amend within the time
allowed by the court, and did not even attempt to do so until more than a month
after the deadline had passed.”)
 
As such,
Courts have denied leave to amend under analogous circumstances. Moreover, as
noted by Plaintiffs, where a party makes a “deliberate decision not to attempt
to timely file amended allegations due solely to the temporary absence of
supporting evidence,” that will “generally doom to failure any motion
for leave to amend under 473, subdivision (a). . . .” (Leader, supra,
89 Cal.App.4th at p. 616 (emphasis in original).) 
            
            Here,
Quantgene may not have discovered the supporting evidence until depositions
this summer. However, as Plaintiffs’ motion sets forth, there is substantial reason
to believe that Quantgene at the very least had reason to amend their
allegations much earlier to embrace the claims now advanced here. (See Opp.
8: 1-26.)
 
            Taken
together, the Court finds Quantgene’s delay in moving to amend the
cross-complaint to be unreasonable.
 
            Based
on the foregoing, Quantgene’s motion for leave to amend to file a FAXC is
denied. 
 
It is so ordered. 
 
Dated:  January   
, 2025
                                                                                                                                                           
   Hon. Jon R.
Takasugi
   Judge of the
Superior Court
 
 
 
Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must
send an email to the court at smcdept17@lacourt.org
by 4 p.m. the day prior as directed by the instructions provided on the court
website at www.lacourt.org.  If a party submits
on the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must
identify the party submitting on the tentative. 
If all parties to a motion submit, the court will adopt this
tentative as the final order.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  For more information, please contact the court clerk at (213)
633-0517.  
 
 
 
 
 