  Case Number:  24STCV08211    Hearing Date:   January 13, 2025    Dept:  47 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Theresa M. Traber, Department 47
 
 
HEARING DATE:     January 13, 2025                   TRIAL
DATE: NOT SET
                                                           
CASE:                         EMI, LLC, v. Bristol Central SPE, LLC.,
et al.
 
CASE NO.:                 24STCV08211            
 
(1)  
MOTION TO COMPEL RESPONSES TO SPECIAL
INTERROGATORIES; REQUEST FOR SANCTIONS
(2)  
MOTION TO COMPEL RESPONSES TO REQUESTS FOR
PRODUCTION; REQUEST FOR SANCTIONS

 
MOVING PARTY:               (1)(2) Defendant Bristol Central, L.P., erroneously
sued as Bristol Central SPE, LLC
 
RESPONDING PARTY(S): (1)(2) No response
on eCourt as of 01/08/25
 
CASE
HISTORY:
·        
04/02/24: Complaint filed. 
·        
10/14/24: First Amended Complaint filed. 
 
STATEMENT
OF MATERIAL FACTS AND/OR PROCEEDINGS:
            
            This is an action for breach of contract and fraudulent inducement
arising from a commercial lease agreement. Plaintiff alleges that Defendants
did not permit it to post advertisements on portions of a vacant unit adjacent
to Plaintiff’s unit, despite Defendants’ prior representations to the contrary.

 
Defendant Bristol Central, L.P. moves
to compel responses to special interrogatories and requests for production, and
for sanctions. 
            
TENTATIVE RULING:
 
Defendant’s Motion to Compel
Responses to Special Interrogatories is GRANTED.
 
Defendant’s Motion to Compel
Responses to Requests for Production is GRANTED. 
 
Plaintiff is ordered to provide
verified, code-compliant responses without objections within 20 days of this
order. 
 
Defendant’s Request for Sanctions
is GRANTED in the total amount of $725 against Plaintiff and its attorney,
Jason Eric Guerra, jointly and severally, to be within 20 days to defense
counsel. 
 
DISCUSSION: 
 
Defendant Bristol Central, L.P. moves
to compel responses to special interrogatories and requests for production. As
the standards for both motions are substantively identical, the Court addresses
both motions jointly in the interest of brevity. 
 
Legal Standard
 
When a party to whom an inspection
demand or an interrogatory is directed fails to respond, a party making the
request may move for an order compelling responses. (Code Civ. Proc. §§
2030.290(b) [interrogatories]; 2031.300(b) [requests for production].) A party
who fails to provide timely responses waives any objection, including one based
on privilege or work product. (Code Civ. Proc. §§ 2030.290(a); 2031.300(a).)
For a motion to compel initial responses, no meet and confer is required. All
that must be shown is that a set of requests for production was properly served
on the opposing party, that the time to respond has expired, and that no
response has been served. (Leach v. Sup.
Ct. (1980) 111 Cal.App.3d 902, 905-06.) 
 
Analysis
 
            Defendant
served special interrogatories and requests for production on Plaintiff’s
counsel by personal service on May 8, 2024. (Declaration of Rick Augustini ISO
Mot. ¶ 2, Exh A.) As of the date this motion was filed, no response had been
received. (Id. ¶¶ 3-5.) Defendant is therefore entitled to an order
compelling responses.
 
Sanctions
 
Defendant requests sanctions in the
amount of $1,635 from Plaintiff and its attorney of record on each motion. 
 
            Failing to respond or to submit to
an authorized method of discovery is a misuse of the discovery process.  (Code of Civ. Proc. § 2023.010.) Under
California Code of Civil Procedure section 2023.030, subd. (a), “[t]he court
may impose a monetary sanction ordering that one engaging in the misuse of the
discovery process, or any attorney advising that conduct, or both pay the
reasonable expenses, including attorney’s fees, incurred by anyone as a result
of that conduct. . . . If a monetary sanction is authorized by any provision of
this title, the court shall impose that sanction unless it finds that the one
subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other
circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.”
 
Sanctions are mandatory in connection with motions to compel
responses to interrogatories or requests for production against any party,
person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to
compel. (Code Civ. Proc. §§ 2030.290(c); 2030.300(d); 2031.300 (c);
2031.310(h).) However, sanctions are not mandatory if the court “finds that the
one subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other
circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.”  (Id.)
 
California Rules of Court, rule 3.1348, subdivision (a) states: “The
court may award sanctions under the Discovery Act in favor of a party who files
a motion to compel discovery, even though no opposition to the motion was
filed, or opposition to the motion was withdrawn, or the requested discovery
was provided to the moving party after the motion was filed.”
Defendant’s request for sanctions improperly includes
pre-motion meet-and-confer efforts and projected time for reviewing opposition
and preparing a reply, even though Plaintiff did not oppose the motion.  The Court finds Defendant is entitled to 1 hour
at $485 for preparing both motions, ½ hour for attending the hearing, and
filing fees totaling $160 for total sanctions of $725 for both motions.   
CONCLUSION:
 
Accordingly, Defendant’s Motion to
Compel Responses to Special Interrogatories is GRANTED.
 
Defendant’s Motion to Compel
Responses to Requests for Production is GRANTED. 
 
Plaintiff is ordered to provide
verified, code-compliant responses without objections within 20 days of this
order. 
 
Defendant’s Request for Sanctions
is GRANTED in the total amount of $725 against Plaintiff and its attorney,
Jason Eric Guerra, jointly and severally, to be within 20 days to defense
counsel. 
 
            Moving
Party to give notice.
 
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
Dated: January 13, 2025                                 ___________________________________
                                                                                    Theresa
M. Traber
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court
 

            Any party may submit on the
tentative ruling by contacting the courtroom via email at Smcdept47@lacourt.org by no later than 4:00 p.m. the day
before the hearing. All interested parties must be copied on the email. It
should be noted that if you submit on a tentative ruling the court will still
conduct a hearing if any party appears. By submitting on the tentative you
have, in essence, waived your right to be present at the hearing, and you
should be aware that the court may not adopt the tentative, and may issue an
order which modifies the tentative ruling in whole or in part.
 