  Case Number:  23STCV19719    Hearing Date:   January 15, 2025    Dept:  71 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
 
DEPARTMENT 71
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 



SHABANA SYED, 
  
         vs.
 
GLOBAL
  ELECTRONIC TECHNOLOGY, INC.


 Case No.: 
  24STCV19719
 
 
 
 Hearing Date:  January 15, 2025



 
Defendant Global Electronic Technology,
Inc.’s motion to compel arbitration of Plaintiff Shabana Syed’s claims in this
action is granted. This case is stayed pending arbitration and mediation.
The Court sets a case management conference for January 15, 2026, at 8:30
a.m.  The parties are directed to submit
a joint statement five calendar days in advance, apprising the Court of the
status of the arbitration.
 
Defendant Global Electronic Technology, Inc. (“GET”) (“Defendant”)
moves for an order compelling arbitration of all claims asserted by Plaintiff Shabana
Syed (“Syed”) (“Plaintiff”) and to stay the action pending arbitration.  (Notice of Motion, pg. 2; C.C.P. §§1281 et
seq., 1281.4; 9 U.S.C. §§1 et seq.)  
 
Background
On August 6, 2024, Plaintiff filed her operative complaint
(“Complaint”) against Defendant alleging three causes of action: (1) wrongful
termination against public policy; (2) Whistleblower Retaliation in Violation
of Labor Code §1102.5; and (3) intentional infliction of emotional distress.  
Defendant filed the instant motion on September 30, 2024.  Plaintiff filed her opposition on December 30,
2024.  Defendant filed its reply on January
8, 2025.
 
Motion to Compel Arbitration
A.  Arbitration Agreement
1.    
The Arbitration
Agreement is enforceable
Federal
law provides for enforcement of this Arbitration Agreement. The Federal
Arbitration Act, 9 U.S.C. §1, et seq. (“FAA”), establishes a strong
federal policy in favor of arbitration of disputes where a written arbitration
agreement exists. Section 2 of the FAA provides, in pertinent part that “[a]
written provision . . . to settle by arbitration a controversy thereafter
arising out of such contract . . .  shall
be valid, irrevocable, and enforceable.”  (9 U.S.C. §2.) 
The purpose of the FAA is to “reverse the longstanding judicial
hostility to arbitration agreements.” (Gilmer v. Interstate/Johnson Lane
Corp. (1991) 500 U.S. 20, 24.)  The
FAA places arbitration agreements “on an equal footing with other contracts and
[requires courts] to enforce them according to their terms.”  (AT&T Mobility, LLC v. Concepcion (2011)
563 U.S. 333, 339; see also Rent-A-Center West, Inc. v. Jackson (2010)
561 U.S. 63, 67 [“The FAA reflects the fundamental principle that arbitration
is a matter of contract.”].)  The FAA
will preempt not only a state law that “discriminat[es] on its face against
arbitration,” but also a state law that “covertly accomplishes the same
objective by disfavoring contracts that (oh so coincidentally) have the
defining features of arbitration agreements.”  (Kindred Nursing Centers Limited
Partnership v. Clark (2017) 137 S.Ct. 1421, 1426.)
The
FAA restricts a court’s inquiry related to compelling arbitration to two
threshold questions: (1) whether there was an agreement to arbitrate between
the parties; and (2) whether the agreement covers the dispute.  (Howsam v. Dean Witter Reynolds, Inc. (2002)
537 U.S. 79, 84.)  Here, both criteria
are satisfied. First, Plaintiff agreed to arbitration on November 23, 2022,
when he signed an arbitration agreement with Mattel (“Arbitration
Agreement”).  (Decl. of Tolentino ¶8, Exh. E.)  Second, the Arbitration Agreement expressly covers “all disputes, whether based
on tort, contract, statute . . . equitable law, or otherwise” including:
[A]ny claims of discrimination, harassment and/or retaliation,
whether they be based on the California Fair Employment and Housing Act, Title
VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, as amended, or any other state or federal
law or regulation. 
. . .
 
The only exception to the requirement of binding arbitration shall be
for claims arising under the National Labor Relations Act which are brought
before the National Labor Relations Board, claims for medical and disability
benefits under the California Workers’ Compensation Act, Employment Development
Department claims, or as may otherwise be required by state or federal law.
However, nothing herein shall prevent [Plaintiff] from filing and pursuing
proceedings before the California Department of Fair Employment and Housing, or
the United States Equal Employment Opportunity Commission (although if [Plaintiff
choses] to pursue a claim following the exhaustion of such administrative
remedies, that claim would be subject to the provisions of this Agreement).
 
(Decl. of Tolentino ¶8, Exh.
E at §2, emphasis added.)  
California
law also favors arbitration for dispute resolution. The California Arbitration
Act (“CAA”), codified at C.C.P. §1281 et seq., provides, “A written
agreement to submit to arbitration an existing controversy or a controversy
thereafter arising is valid, enforceable and irrevocable, save upon such
grounds as exist for the revocation of any contract.”  (C.C.P. §1281; see also Grafton Partners
L.P. v. Superior Court (2005) 36 Cal.4th 944, 955 [“[U]nlike predispute
jury waivers, predispute arbitration agreements are specifically authorized by
statute.”].)  
“California
law, like federal law, favors enforcement of valid arbitration agreements.”  (Armendariz v. Foundation Health Psychcare
Services, Inc. (2000) 24 Cal.4th 83, 97, 99.)  The public policy in favor of arbitration is
so strong that California courts have held that an employee is “bound by the
provisions of the [arbitration] agreement regardless of whether [he] read it or
[was] aware of the arbitration clause when [he] signed the document.”  (Brookwood v. Bank of America (1996)
45 Cal.App.4th 1667, citing Macaulay v. Norlander (1992) 12 Cal.App.4th
1.)  The only prerequisite for a court to
order arbitration is a determination that the parties have entered into an
agreement to arbitrate the dispute.  (United
Transportation Union v. Southern California Rapid Transit District (1992) 7
Cal.App.4th 804, 808.)  Thus, arbitration
must be ordered “unless the agreement clearly does not apply to the dispute in
question.”  (Vianna v. Doctors’
Management Co. (1994) 27 Cal.App.4th 1186, 1189.)
Defendant
proved the existence of an arbitration agreement with Plaintiff.  Defendants submitted evidence that on November
23, 2022, Plaintiff executed the Arbitration Agreement with Defendant.  (Decl.
of Tolentino ¶8, Exh. E.)
Based
on the foregoing, Defendant proved the existence of a valid Arbitration Agreement
with Plaintiff that is enforceable by Defendant. 
 
2.    
Covered Claims
The
Arbitration Clause states:
I further agree and acknowledge that the Company and I will utilize
binding arbitration as the sole and exclusive means to resolve all disputes
that may arise out of or be related in any way to my employment, including but
not limited to the termination of my employment and my compensation. The
Company and I each specifically waive and relinquish our right to bring a claim
against the other in a court of law, and this waiver shall be equally binding
on any person who represents or seeks to represent me or the Company in a
lawsuit against the other in a court of law. Both I and the Company agree that
any claim, dispute, and/or controversy that I may have against Company (or its
owners, directors, officers, managers, employees, or agents), or the Company
may have against me, shall be submitted to and determined exclusively by
binding arbitration under the Federal Arbitration Act (“FAA”), in conformity
with the procedures of the California Arbitration Act (Cal. Code Civ. Proc. sec
1280 et seq., including section 1283.05 and all of the Act’s other mandatory
and permissive rights to discovery).
 
(Decl. of Tolentino ¶8, Exh.
E at §2, emphasis added.)  Plaintiff’s
claims arise out of the termination of her employment.  (See Complaint.)  
Based
on the foregoing, Defendant met its burden of establishing the Arbitration Agreement
covers the causes of action asserted in Plaintiff’s Complaint.
 
B.
Unconscionability
“[P]rocedural
and substantive unconscionability must both be present in order for a court to
exercise its discretion to refuse to enforce a contract or clause under the
doctrine of unconscionability.”  (Armendariz,
24 Cal.4th at pg. 102.)  Courts invoke a
sliding scale which disregards the regularity of the procedural process of the
contract formation, that creates the terms, in proportion to the greater
harshness or unreasonableness of the substantive terms themselves, i.e., the
more substantively oppressive the contract term, the less evidence of
procedural unconscionability is required to conclude that the term is
unenforceable, and vice versa.  (Id.,
at pg. 114.)  Plaintiff bears the burden
of proving that the provision at issue is both procedurally and substantively
unconscionable.  
 
1.    
Procedural
Unconscionability
Plaintiff
argues the Arbitration Agreement is procedurally unconscionable because the
Arbitration Agreement is a contract of adhesion.  (Opposition, pgs. 5-7.)
“Procedural
unconscionability focuses on the elements of oppression and surprise.
[Citations] ‘Oppression arises from an inequality of bargaining power which
results in no real negotiation and an absence of meaningful choice . . .
Surprise involves the extent to which the terms of the bargain are hidden in a
‘prolix printed form’ drafted by a party in a superior bargaining position.’
[Citations.]”  (Roman v. Superior
Court (2009) 172 Cal.App.4th 1462, 1469.)
Procedural
unconscionability “focuses on the unequal bargaining positions and hidden terms
common in the context of adhesion contracts.” 
(24 Hour Fitness, Inc. v. Superior Court (1998) 66 Cal.App.4th
1199, 1212-1213.)  Although standard
employment agreements offered on a “take it or leave it” basis are generally
considered contracts of adhesion, this alone is not enough to equate to
unconscionability.  (See Graham
v. Scissor-Tail, Inc. (1981) 28 Cal.3d 807, 817-819 [“To describe a
contract as adhesive in character is not to indicate its legal effect. It is,
rather, ‘the beginning and not the end of the analysis insofar as
enforceability of its terms are concerned.’”].) 
Adhesion contracts are “fully enforceable . . . unless certain other
factors are present which under established legal rules—legislative or
judicial—operate to render it otherwise.”  (Id. at pgs. 819-820; Harper v.
Ultimo (2003) 113 Cal.App.4th 1402, 1409 [adhesion alone does not render
arbitration agreements unconscionable]; see also Armendariz, 24
Cal.4th at 114; Lagatree v. Luce, Forward, Hamilton & Scripps, LLP
(1999) 74 Cal.App.4th 1105 [discussing many authorities upholding
arbitration agreements contained in adhesion contracts].) 
Plaintiff’s
argument in opposition that her requirement to sign the Arbitration Agreement
as a condition of her employment is unavailing and is unsupported by case
law.  The adhesive nature of arbitration
agreements in the employment context alone does not render an agreement
unenforceable.  (Lagatree, 74
Cal.App.4th at pg. 1127 [“[C]ases uniformly agree that a compulsory predispute
arbitration agreement is not rendered unenforceable just because it is required
as a condition of employment or offered on a ‘take it or leave it’ basis.”]; Armendariz,
24 Cal. 4th at pg. 113 [holding that the requirement that the employee sign an
arbitration agreement may contain some elements of procedural
unconscionability, but that, in itself, does not invalidate the arbitration
agreement]; Ajamian v. CantorCO2e, LP (2012) 203 Cal.App.4th 771, 796 [“Where
there is no other indication of oppression or surprise, the degree of
procedural unconscionability of an adhesion agreement is low[.]”].)  
Here,
the Arbitration Agreement is a stand-alone, two-page document which Plaintiff
accessed via email.  Defendant’s paralegal
declares:
GET provided the Agreement
along with other onboarding documents to Plaintiff via e-mail on November 22,
2022. Exhibit B. In this same e-mail, GET provided Plaintiff the opportunity to
review and ask questions about the provided documents, stating in relevant
part, “[i]n the meantime, if you have any questions don’t hesitate to reach out
to me.” Id. Thereafter, Plaintiff signed – via a wet signature – the Agreement
on November 23, 2022, and never opted out. A full week passed between GET
providing Plaintiff with the onboarding documents and Plaintiff returning the
signed Agreement, and other onboarding documents, to GET via e-mail on November
28, 2022. Attached hereto as Exhibit C is a true and correct copy of
Plaintiff’s November 28, 2022 email containing her signed documents, including
the Agreement. On November 28, 2022, Plaintiff also emailed Paige Vigneault,
GET’s then Human Resources manager, wherein she asked questions related to the
onboarding documents. Attached hereto as Exhibit D is a true and correct copy
of Plaintiff’s November 28, 2022 email. Notably, Plaintiff did not ask any
questions about the Agreement. Plaintiff’s signature on the Agreement matches
the other signatures on her onboarding paperwork and other documents, such as
Plaintiff’s notice of employment separation, dated April 4, 2023.
 
(Decl.
of Tolentino ¶8.)
Plaintiff
has failed to demonstrate any procedural unconscionability.  (Hicks v. Superior Court (2004) 115
Cal.App.4th 77, 91.)  Further, Plaintiff
does not submit a declaration in support of her opposition with sufficient
evidence to contradict that Defendant provided her with sufficient
opportunities to review and ask questions about the documents she signed.  
Based
on the foregoing, the Court finds the Arbitration Agreement is, at most,
minimally procedurally unconscionable. 
However, as discussed below, the Court finds the arbitration agreement
is not substantively unconscionable.  
 
2.    
Substantive Unconscionability
Plaintiff
argues the Arbitration Agreement is substantively unconscionable because (1) it
limits Plaintiff’s ability to take depositions; (2) the Arbitration Agreement
contains a requirement that completely abrogates the purported reasons for
binding arbitration – faster resolution of disputes and finality of the award;
and (3) the Arbitration Agreement does not state which party shall bear the
cost of arbitration or the subsequent appellate-level review of the
arbitrator’s award.  (Opposition, pgs. 7-10.)
“Substantive
unconscionability focuses on the actual terms of the agreement and evaluates
whether they create ‘overly harsh’ or ‘‘one-sided’ results’ [Citations] that
is, whether contractual provisions reallocate risks in an objectively
unreasonable or unexpected manner. 
[Citation] Substantive unconscionability ‘may take various forms,’ but
typically is found in the employment context when the arbitration agreement is
‘one-sided’ in favor of the employer without sufficient justification, for
example, when ‘the employee’s claims against the employer, but not the
employer’s claims against the employee, are subject to arbitration.’
[Citations].”  (Roman, 172
Cal.App.4th at pgs. 1469-1470.)  In
determining whether an arbitration agreement is unconscionable, the Court
considers whether the agreement: (1) provides for a neutral arbitrator; (2)
provides for reasonable discovery; (3) requires a written award; (4) provides
for the same remedies that otherwise would be available in court; and (5) does
not require employees to bear costs unique to arbitration.  (See Armendariz, 24 Cal.4th at pgs.
102-103.)
First,
Plaintiff contends that the Agreement does not allow any depositions to be
taken.  Plaintiff is mistaken.  “[W]hen parties agree to arbitrate statutory
claims, they also implicitly agree, absent express language to the contrary, to
such procedures as are necessary to vindicate that claim.”  (Armendariz, 24 Cal.4th at pg. 106.)  Even if the Agreement did not mention
discovery rights or depositions at all, “the absence of such a provision does
not make it unconscionable because the right to discovery is guaranteed by
section 1283.05, subdivision (a), which provides, in relevant part, ‘[T]he
parties to the arbitration shall have the right to take depositions and obtain
discovery . . ..’”  (Navas v. Fresh
Venture Foods, LLC (2022) 85 Cal.App.5th 626, 633.)  Furthermore, “[a]n employer who agrees to
arbitrate claims impliedly ‘consent[s]’ to a procedure that allows for
discovery.” (Id., citing Armendariz, 24 Cal.4th at pg. 106).  Here, the Agreement provides for “binding
arbitration under the Federal Arbitration Act (“FAA”), in conformity with the
procedures of the California Arbitration Act (Cal. Code Civ. Proc. sec 1280 et
seq., including section 1283.05 and all of the Act’s other mandatory and permissive
rights to discovery).”  (Decl. of Tolentino
¶8, Exh. E at §2.)  No provision
specifically mentioning depositions is necessary, because the right to take
depositions is always implied.  Furthermore,
the agreement expressly allows for all mandatory and permissive discovery,
which includes depositions.
Second,
Plaintiff’s argument that Agreement’s provision allowing for review of the
arbitrator’s opinion is substantively unconscionable is unavailing.  Plaintiff cites to Little v. Auto Stiegler,
Inc., where the court found a provision unconscionable because it allowed
either party to request a second review of the arbitrator’s opinion, only when
the award exceeded $50,000.  (See
Little v. Auto Stiegler, Inc. (2003) 29 Cal.4th 1064, 1071.)  However, the Little Court found the
provision to be unconscionable only because of the $50,000
threshold.  (Id. at pg. 1073.)  Specifically, the Little Court found
the review provision to be unconscionable because the plaintiff would not be
able to appeal cases where an arbitrator wrongly ruled that the plaintiff take
nothing and thus “the $50,000 threshold inordinately benefits defendants.”  (Id.)  The Little Court did not find that a
provision allowing for review of the arbitrator’s decision was inherently
unenforceable but only that the dollar amount threshold would benefit
defendants unevenly.  Regardless, the Little
Court held that the unconscionable provision was severable and that the
“arbitration agreement is valid and enforceable once the unconscionable
appellate arbitration provision is deleted.”  (Id. at pg. 1076.) 
Here,
unlike in Little, the Agreement’s provision allowing for review is not
substantively unconscionable, because there is no dollar amount threshold.  The Agreement equally allows either party to
request review of the arbitrator’s opinion. The relevant provision states: 
Within thirty days of the
arbitrator’s final written opinion and order, the opinion shall be subject to
affirmation, reversal or modification, at either party’s written request,
following review of the record and arguments of the parties by a second arbitrator
who shall, as far as practicable, proceed according to the law and procedures
applicable to appellate review by the California Court of Appeal of a civil
judgment following court trial. 
 
(Decl.
of Tolentino, Exh. E).  The provision
contains no dollar amount threshold for appeal and does not unequally benefit
either party.  Therefore, Plaintiff’s
argument on this basis is unavailing.
Finally,
Plaintiff’s argument that the Agreement is unenforceable because it does not
specify which party shall pay for the costs of arbitration (and appellate-level
review of the arbitration award) is unavailing. 
Arbitration Agreements are enforceable even if they are silent as to
which party bears the costs of arbitration. Where an employer requires an
employee to arbitrate his or her claims, “the agreement must be interpreted (in
the absence of any express terms to the contrary) to require the employer to
pay any unusual costs associated with arbitration, such as the arbitrator’s
fees.”  (Fittante v. Palm Springs
Motors, Inc. (2003) 105 Cal.App.4th 708, 719.)  In Fittante, the Court of Appeal found
that the arbitration agreement contained “no express provisions which provide
for the payment of fees and costs.”  (Id.)
 The Fittante Court held that
the agreement could be construed consistently with the requirements of Armendariz
and “thus satisfies, and does not contravene, the fifth Armendariz factor.”
 (Id.) 
Here,
Plaintiff alleges that the Agreement is silent as to which party is required to
pay arbitration fees and costs.  In the
absence of express provisions, the Agreement must be interpreted to require the
employer to pay any unusual costs associated with arbitration.  Therefore, the Agreement satisfies the
requirements of Armendariz and is enforceable.
Based
on the evidence before the Court, the terms of the Arbitration Agreement do not
create overly harsh or one-sided results, satisfying the requirements for a
substantively conscionable agreement.
Based
on the foregoing, the Court finds the Arbitration Agreement is not substantively unconscionable.  
 
C.   
Stay of Current
Action
Pursuant
to C.C.P. §1281.4, if an application has been made to a court involving order
to arbitrate a controversy and such application is undetermined, the court
where the application is pending shall, upon motion of a party to the action,
stay the action until the application for an order to arbitrate is determined.  (C.C.P. §1281.4.)
Accordingly,
this case is stayed pending arbitration.
 
D.  
Conclusion
Defendant’s
motion to compel arbitration is granted. 

The case is
stayed pending arbitration. The Court sets a case management conference for January
15, 2026, at 8:30 a.m.  The parties are
directed to submit a joint statement five calendar days in advance, apprising
the Court of the status of the arbitration.
Moving Party to
give notice.

 
 
Dated:  January _____, 2025
                                                                             





  