  Case Number:  23TRCV03015    Hearing Date:   December 17, 2024    Dept:  E 


Superior Court
  of California
County of Los
  Angeles
Southwest
  District
Torrance Dept. E




 
STEPHANIE
  GAUSS,


 
 
 
Plaintiff,


 
Case No.:
 


 
23TRCV03015




 
v.


 


 
[Tentative]
  Sustained in part/overruled in part
 




 
DAVID DE
  WISPELAERE, et al.,


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Defendants.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing
Date:             December 17, 2024     
 
Moving
Parties:          Defendants David de
Wispelaere, Annie Maes, and Maes Capital
Responding
Party:      Plaintiff Stephanie Gauss
HEARING: DEMURRER TO
THIRD AMENDED COMPLAINT
            The Court considered the moving,
opposition, and reply papers.  
RULING
The Court sustains the Demurrer
to causes of action 1, 3, and 6 without leave to amend as to Defendants David de Wispelaere and Maes
Capital. 
 
The Court sustains the Demurrer
to cause of action 2 without leave to amend as to all Defendants. 
 
The Court sustains the Demurrer
to cause of action 5 with leave to amend as to all Defendants. 
 
The Court overrules the
Demurrer to causes of action 4 and 7 as to all Defendants.
 
The Court
strikes paragraph 88 with leave to amend. 
 
The Court
strikes paragraphs 5, 8, 10, 11, 45, 103 and the prayer for relief for punitive
and exemplary damages as to the third cause of action without leave to amend. 
The Court
denies Defendants’ motion to strike paragraphs 63, 64, 88, 103, 107, 109, 114,
123, 133, and the prayer for relief as to the second, third, fourth, fifth, and
sixth causes of action. 
 
Plaintiff has
20 days from the date of this ruling to file an amended complaint. 
 
BACKGROUND
On September 12, 2023, Plaintiff Stephanie
Gauss filed a complaint against Defendants David De Wispelaere (“De
Wispelaere”), Annie Maes (“Maes”), Maes Capital (“Maes Capital”), First
American Title Insurance Company (“FATIC”) (collectively, “Defendants”), and
DOES 1 through 50, inclusive. 
 
On January 17, 2024, the Court granted
Plaintiff’s application for a preliminary injunction. 
 
On April 9, 2024, Plaintiff filed the First
Amended Complaint (“FAC”) against the same Defendants. 
 
On April 26, 2024, Maes filed a
Cross-Complaint against Ime Inyang Oduok (“Oduok”), Beach Cities Re, Inc.
(“Beach”), Stephanie Gauss (collectively, “Cross-Defendants”), and ROES 1-25,
alleging (1) Negligence; (2) Equitable Indemnity; (3) Fraudulent Nondisclosure;
(4) Negligent Nondisclosure; (5) Impress and Foreclose Equitable Lien – Count
I; (6) Impress and Foreclose Equitable Lien – Count II; and (7) Declaratory
Relief.
 
On August 22, 2024, Plaintiff filed the Second
Amended Complaint (“SAC”) against the same defendants, alleging (1) Violations
of the Truth in Lending Act; (2) Violations of Real Estate Settlement
Procedures Act; (3) Usury; (4) Violations of California Business &
Professions Code § 17200, et seq; and (5) Breach of Contract. 
 
On September 5, 2024, the Court granted
Wispelaere defendants’ motion to bifurcate trial on punitive damages and denied
the request to stay pretrial discovery of the Wispelaere defendants’ financial
condition. The Court also granted Plaintiff’s motion for pretrial discovery of
financial condition. 
 
On September 13, 2024, the Court granted
Plaintiff’s motion for leave to file a third amended complaint. On the same
day, Plaintiff filed the operative Third Amended Complaint (“TAC”). The TAC
alleges as follows:
 
Plaintiff purchased a property in Los Angeles
in September 2020 and later demolished the existing structure to build a
duplex. (TAC ¶¶ 14, 16.) In March 2022, Plaintiff sought refinancing and was
referred to Defendant David by Oduok, a real estate agent. (TAC ¶ 19.)
Plaintiff initially entered into a loan agreement for $1.5 million with David
but later discovered that the loan terms were altered without their knowledge
to increase the amount to $1.7 million and change the lender to Maes. (TAC ¶ 21,
24.)
 
Defendants David, Maes, and Maes Capital
engaged in fraudulent conduct by acting as unlicensed brokers and failing to
provide necessary loan disclosures as required under federal and state laws. (TAC
¶¶ 26, 27, 45.) They misled Plaintiff by using an altered loan commitment
letter and did not provide essential loan documentation or disclosures required
under the Truth in Lending Act (TILA) and Real Estate Settlement Procedures Act
(RESPA). (TAC ¶¶ 47-51, 56-58, 59-60.) Defendants also violated California’s usury
laws by charging excessive interest rates, including a 12.75% rate and a
default rate of 21%, and by charging interest on loan funds before the
documents were signed. (TAC ¶¶ 61-64.) 
 
Defendants also violated other state lending
laws, such as HUD disclosures and the Fair Lending Notice. (TAC ¶
65.) They further engaged in unfair and illegal business practices, violating
California’s Unfair Competition Law by charging excessive interest and failing
to provide required disclosures. (TAC ¶¶ 66-72.) 
 
On September 25, 2024, Defendants filed a
demurrer to the TAC. 
 
On October 17, 2024, Plaintiff filed an
opposition. 
 
On October 23, 2024, Defendants filed a reply.
 
No trial date has been set.
 
LEGAL STANDARD
 
A demurrer can be used only to challenge
defects that appear on the face of the pleading under attack or from matters
outside the pleading that are judicially noticeable. (Blank v. Kirwan
(1985) 39 Cal.3d 311, 318.) “To survive a demurrer, the complaint need only
allege facts sufficient to state a cause of action; each evidentiary fact that
might eventually form part of the plaintiff’s proof need not be alleged.” (C.A.
v. William S. Hart Union High School Dist. (2012)
53 Cal.4th 861, 872.) For the purpose of testing the sufficiency of
the cause of action, the demurrer admits the truth of all material facts
properly pleaded. (Aubry v. Tri-City Hospital Dist. (1992) 2 Cal.4th
962, 966-967.) A demurrer “does not admit contentions, deductions or
conclusions of fact or law.” (Daar v. Yellow Cab Co. (1967) 67 Cal.2d
695, 713.)
 
A pleading is uncertain if it is ambiguous or
unintelligible. (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subd. (f).) A demurrer for
uncertainty may lie if the failure to label the parties and claims renders the
complaint so confusing defendant cannot tell what he or she is supposed to
respond to. (Williams v. Beechnut Nutrition Corp. (1986) 185 Cal.App.3d
135, 139, fn. 2.) However, “[a] demurrer for uncertainty is strictly construed,
even where a complaint is in some respects uncertain because ambiguities can be
clarified under modern discovery procedures.” (Khoury v. Maly’s of
California, Inc. (1993) 14 Cal.App.4th 612, 616.)
 
REQUEST FOR JUDICIAL NOTICE
 
            Defendants
request that the Court take judicial notice of the Complaint filed on September
12, 2023, the Court's minute order filed on March 14, 2024, and the tentative
ruling for the hearing on the Demurrer to the First Amended Complaint.
 
            The Court grants
Plaintiff’s requests for judicial notice in full, pursuant to Evidence Code
sections 452(d) and (h).
 
DISCUSSION 
 
Meet and Confer
 
Before filing a demurrer, “the demurring
party shall meet and confer in person or by telephone with the party who
filed the pleading that is subject to demurrer for the purpose of determining
whether an agreement can be reached that would resolve the objections to be
raised in the demurrer.” (emphasis added, CCP § 430.41(a).)
 
Defendants’ counsel states that on September 20, 2024, he
emailed Plaintiff’s counsel, regarding the factual and legal basis for the
demurrer. The parties attempted to meet and confer between September 20 and
September 25, 2024. (Labarre Decl. ¶¶ 2-4.) Defendants’ counsel states that
there was no response to his email requests to schedule a time to meet and
confer. 
 
In opposition, Plaintiff states the meet and confer requirement
was not satisfied. Plaintiff points out that Defendant’s counsel fails to
acknowledge that Plaintiff’s counsel was invited to a telephone conference
twice to discuss the pending demurrer and motion to strike. According to the
Declaration of Plaintiff’s counsel, he states that he emailed Defendant's
counsel with proposed dates and times for the discussion. (Richman Decl. ¶¶
2-3.). However, the Demurrer and Motion to Strike were filed before two of the
three suggested dates, all of which were within four business days of the
meet-and-confer request and scheduled for Mr. Richman’s first two days back in
the office after being out of town.
 
In reply, Defendants argue that the meet-and-confer process was
adequate and, in any case, does not affect whether the demurrer should be
sustained or overruled pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 430.41(a)(4),
which states that insufficient meet-and-confer efforts are not grounds to rule
on a demurrer. Defendants state they complied with the meet and confer
requirement by initiating the process via email on September 20, 2024, with the
demurrer filed five days later. While Plaintiff's counsel requested a phone
call the following week, Defendants assert Plaintiff’s counsel avoided further
discussion on September 25, when Defendants sought another meeting. Defendants
contend they should not be delayed indefinitely by Plaintiff’s counsel and note
that the demurrer has been pending for nearly a month without further engagement
from Plaintiff's side. 
 
The Court finds the meet and confer requirement to be satisfied because
Defendants demonstrated a good faith effort to initiate and complete the meet
and confer process.
 
Cause of
Action 1 – Violations of the Truth in Lending
Act as to Defendants David De Wispelaere and Maes Capital
 
            To
plead alter ego liability, a plaintiff must show that
there is a unity of interest and ownership between the corporate and individual
defendants, and (2) there would be an inequitable result if the acts in
question were treated as those of the corporation alone.  (Robbins v. Blecher (1997) 52 Cal. App.
4th 886.)
 
            Defendants do not argue against the substance
of this cause of action but rather state that David De Wispelaere and Maes
Capital should be dismissed from the case because there are no factual
allegations linking them to the claims against Annie Maes, the actual lender.
Maes Capital had no role in the loan, and Plaintiff has not shown any relationship
with Maes Capital. Similarly, although De Wispelaere was once considered the
intended lender, Plaintiff concedes the loan was issued by Annie Maes. Since
all claims, such as TILA, RESPA, usury, slander of title, and breach of
contract, are directed at the lender, Defendants argue they cannot apply to
non-lenders like De Wispelaere and Maes Capital, who had no obligation to
provide disclosures or engage in a borrower-lender relationship. Defendants
state that Plaintiff’s “alter ego” allegations linking De Wispelaere and Maes
Capital to Annie Maes are conclusory and lack factual support. (TAC
¶¶ 5,10)
            In opposition, Plaintiff argues that
Defendants De Wispelaere and Maes Capital are proper parties to the case and
that the TAC provides specific facts establishing their involvement and
liability. Plaintiff claims that De Wispelaere, acting on behalf of Maes,
issued a payoff demand with inflated, usurious interest and excessive charges,
intentionally frustrating Plaintiff’s refinancing efforts. (TAC ¶¶ 48, 50, 52,
54, 111.) Additionally, De Wispelaere allegedly caused the recording of
foreclosure-related notices, further impacting Plaintiff’s financial position. (TAC
¶¶ 116, 118.) Plaintiff also alleges that De Wispelaere and Maes Capital
acted as agents for Maes, handling loan negotiation, servicing, and foreclosure
processes, as Maes lives abroad and relied on them for all communications.
Moreover, Plaintiff asserts that De Wispelaere, Maes, and Maes Capital operate
interchangeably as alter egos without adhering to legal distinctions, creating
grounds for joint liability. (TAC ¶¶ 5, 6.) 
            In reply, Defendants argue that
Plaintiff’s claims against Maes Capital and De Wispelaere are inadequately pled
because they improperly group all Defendants together without distinguishing
individual actions. Defendants contend that Plaintiff has not shown why Maes
Capital or De Wispelaere, neither of whom was a lender on the loan, should be
liable under claims intended for the lender, Annie Maes. Regarding Plaintiff’s “alter
ego” allegations, Defendants argue these are merely boilerplate allegations and
lack factual support, failing to establish any legal basis for treating the
three parties as the same entity. They note that Maes Capital and De Wispelaere
successfully demurred to prior complaints for similar deficiencies, and since
Plaintiff has not rectified these issues, Defendants request the demurrer be
sustained without leave to amend for Maes Capital and De Wispelaere.
            The Court finds that Plaintiff fails
to allege sufficient factual allegations against Defendants Maes Capital and De
Wispelaere. The TAC groups all Defendants together without specifying
individual actions, making it unclear how Maes Capital and De Wispelaere are
individually liable. Further, Plaintiff fails to support her alter ego
allegations with any substantive facts that would justify treating Maes
Capital, De Wispelaere, and Annie Maes as a single entity. Thus, Plaintiff has
failed to state sufficient facts to plead alter ego liability. (Robbins,
supra, 52 Cal. App. 4th 886.) Given
that this is the third amended complaint, Plaintiff has failed to show that an
amendment could be made to remedy this issue.
 
            Thus, the Court sustains the Demurrer
to the first cause of action as to Defendants David De Wispelaere and Maes
Capital without leave to amend.
 
Cause
of Action 2 – Violations of RESPA
 
Defendants
argue that the RESPA does not apply to this case because RESPA governs
"federally related mortgage loans," which excludes short-term
construction loans. (12 U.S.C § 2602.) Here, Defendants assert that the loan
was a one-year, temporary construction loan with no intent to resell or insure
it federally, confirmed by its construction-based disbursement schedule. (TAC,
¶¶16, 18.) Although Plaintiff claims the loan is "federally insured,"
Defendants assert this claim lacks factual support, noting that the lender,
Annie Maes, is an individual not regulated or insured by federal entities and
does not meet the statutory criteria for a RESPA-related lender. Additionally,
Defendants emphasize that the Court has already sustained two previous
demurrers on similar grounds, indicating that Plaintiff failed to allege specific
facts to classify the loan as "federally related."
 
In
opposition, Plaintiff argues that the RESPA claim is properly pleaded, as it
meets the two key requirements for applying to a federally related mortgage
loan: (1) the loan is secured by a lien on residential property, and (2) the
funds used to make the loan came from a federally insured financial
institution. In the TAC, Plaintiff alleges the loan is secured by a first lien
on residential property and that the funds came from deposits insured by the
federal government. (TAC ¶ 100.) Plaintiff also claims a pattern of
noncompliance by Defendants under RESPA, entitling her to an additional
statutory penalty. Plaintiff further supports that the loan funds were
federally insured by noting that Defendant De Wispelaere transferred the loan
funds from his JPMorgan Chase account, a federally insured institution, with
documents from Defendants confirming this.
 
In
reply, Defendants argue that the RESPA claim is inadequately pleaded because
the assertion that the loan is "federally insured" is conclusory and
lacks supporting facts. Plaintiff's claim rests solely on the allegation that
the loan funds came from an account with JPMorgan Chase, but Defendants contend
this is insufficient under RESPA because having funds in a federally insured
bank does not make a loan “federally related” unless the lender itself is
federally insured, which does not apply to private individuals like De
Wispelaere. (12 U.S.C. § 2602(1).) Defendants highlight that this RESPA claim
has been previously dismissed for similar reasons and remains unsupported by
specific facts in the latest complaint. Additionally, Plaintiff did not address
the RESPA exemption for temporary construction financing, which applies because
the loan is a short-term construction loan, as confirmed by the loan agreement
and disbursement schedule. (12 C.F.R. 1024.5.) 
 
“For
purposes of RESPA, a federally related mortgage loan is one involving any loan
that is secured by a mortgage on residential real estate where the proceeds are
used to pay an existing loan secured by the same property and the loan is made
by a federally-insured lender or another agency of the federal government
through a housing or urban development program.” (12 U.S.C.A. § 2602(1)(A)(B);
Miller & Starr § 6:15, The Real Estate Settlement Procedures Act (RESPA), 2
Cal. Real Est. § 6:15 (4th ed.).) The Court finds the allegations in the TAC
remain deficient. Plaintiff argues that the money that Defendants used to fund
the loan was transferred to escrow by Defendant David De Wispelaere from his
bank account at JPMorgan Chase Bank, but Plaintiff fails to adequately explain
how this establishes that the loan is federally insured. Plaintiff points to
paragraph 10 of the TAC, but this paragraph merely states that the funds used
to make the loan were federally insured deposits. (TAC ¶ 10.) Plaintiff fails
to allege specific facts to demonstrate that this particular loan would, in
fact, qualify as a federally related loan. Furthermore, Plaintiff has had two
prior chances to remedy this issue
 
Thus,
the Court sustains the Demurrer to the second cause of action without leave to
amend.
 
Cause
of Action 3 – Usury as to Defendants David De Wispelaere and Maes Capital
            
The
Court incorporates the arguments and analysis discussed under the first cause
of action.
 
Thus,
the Court sustains the Demurrer to the third cause of action as to Defendants
David De Wispelaere and Maes Capital without leave to amend.
 
Cause
of Action 4 – Intentional Interference with Prospective Economic Advantage
 
“Intentional
interference with prospective economic advantage has five elements:(1) the existence,
between the plaintiff and some third party, of an economic relationship that
contains the probability of future economic benefit to the plaintiff; (2) the
defendant’s knowledge of the relationship; (3) intentionally wrongful acts
designed to disrupt the relationship; (4) actual disruption of the
relationship; and (5) economic harm proximately caused by the defendant’s
action.” (Roy Allan Slurry Seal, Inc. v. American Asphalt South, Inc. (2017)
2 Cal.5th 505, 512.)
 
Defendants
argue that Plaintiff’s claim for intentional interference with prospective
economic advantage is unsupported because Plaintiff did not specify an existing
economic relationship with a third party likely to provide future economic
benefit, as the alleged interference relates to a potential, yet unrealized
loan relationship with a new lender. (TAC ¶¶111, 114.) Additionally, Defendants
argue that Plaintiff’s claimed benefit from a new loan with a lower interest
rate is speculative, as the proposed loan wouldn’t fully cover Plaintiff’s debt
to Maes, and refinancing costs would negate any alleged savings. (TAC ¶ 47.)
Defendants further contend that they did not engage in wrongful acts but merely
upheld their contractual rights, which is neither tortious nor wrongful.
Asserting one's economic rights in good faith is not considered interference,
especially where Plaintiff agreed to the loan terms and disputes only their
enforceability in these proceedings. (Bridges v. Cal-Pac. Leasing Co. (1971)
16 Cal.App.3d 118, 131-132.)
 
In
opposition, Plaintiff argues that all elements for intentional interference
with prospective economic advantage are properly pleaded, and Defendants’
objections incorrectly interpret pleading standards as requiring trial-level
evidence. (Aubry v. Tri-City Hosp. Dist. (1992) 2 Cal. 4th 962, 966-967.)
Plaintiff asserts that a valid cause of action exists if there is a factual
basis that Defendants interfered with an existing economic relationship, even
if it hadn't fully materialized. (Muddy Waters, LLC v. Superior Court (2021)
62 Cal. App. 5th 905.)  Plaintiff
contends the relationship with the new lender was concrete, not speculative, as
the lender had committed to refinancing the loan. In the TAC, Plaintiff alleges
Defendants interfered by providing an inflated payoff demand, which they knew
would impede the refinancing. Plaintiff claims that Defendants were aware of
the pending loan and its importance in repaying sums owed under lawful terms. Despite
demands to lower the inflated amount, Defendants allegedly refused, knowing
this would block Plaintiff’s refinancing efforts. (TAC ¶¶ 111, 112.) 
 
            In reply, Defendants state that the TAC
alleges that Plaintiff’s refinancing offer was contingent on Defendants
accepting a payoff less than the amount owed. Defendants assert that there is
nothing wrongful or tortious about refusing to accept such an offer, as they
were merely asserting their contractual rights under the loan agreement, which
provided for the amounts in question. Defendants also argue that Plaintiff’s
alleged relationship with the third-party lender was speculative and
conditional, and that liability cannot rest on a speculative expectation of a
beneficial relationship. (Muddy Watters, supra, 62 Cal.App.5th 905,
926.) Since the loan commitment required Defendants’ acceptance of a
reduced payoff, which never occurred, Defendants conclude that Plaintiff’s
allegations do not establish a viable claim. 
 
            The Court finds that the TAC alleges
sufficient facts to support a claim for intentional interference with
prospective economic advantage. Defendants take issue with the fact that the
alleged “new lender” was not an actual economic relationship but rather a
speculative expectation. However, the reasons in support of this argument are
beyond the scope of the pleadings. For the purposes of demurrer, the Court
finds the allegations that Defendants were aware of “the new lender [who] had
committed to provide Plaintiff a loan for an amount that would fully repay all
sums lawfully due to Defendants under the Loan” to be sufficient. (TAC ¶ 111.)
 
            Thus, the Court overrules the
Demurrer to the fourth cause of action. 
 
Cause
of Action 5 – Slander of Title
 
            “Slander of title occurs when a
person, without a privilege to do so, publishes a false
statement
that disparages title to property and causes pecuniary loss. The false
statement must be maliciously made with the intent to defame.” (Cyr v.
McGovran (2012) 206 Cal.App. 4th 645, 651.)
Defendants
argue that Plaintiff’s slander of title claim is invalid because the Notice of
Default and Notice of Trustee’s Sale were accurate, reflecting the actual loan
amount owed under the contractual terms. Plaintiff does not dispute receiving
the loan, signing the documents, or failing to make payments, only alleging
that the loan amount is unlawful due to excessive interest. However, Defendants
assert that slander of title requires a false statement that inaccurately
reflects the debt, not merely a dispute over enforceability. Defendants also
contend that Plaintiff’s partial payment offer was insufficient and did not
legally satisfy the loan, so Defendants were justified in initiating
foreclosure proceedings. Defendants state that Plaintiff’s claim lacks
specifics regarding the alleged "inflated" payoff amounts.
Additionally, the notices did not challenge Plaintiff's property ownership but
rather enforced loan terms, which is within the lender's rights. Finally,
Defendants state there is no evidence of pecuniary loss, as no foreclosure has
occurred, and the qualified privilege to record these notices has not been
rebutted by Plaintiff. (Civ. Code §2924(d); Kachlon Markowitz (2008) 168
Cal.App.4th 316.)
 
In
opposition, Plaintiff argues that Defendants’ foreclosure proceedings
constitute slander of title, as wrongful foreclosure actions can create a valid
claim for this cause of action. In the TAC, Plaintiff alleges that Defendants
falsely published these notices, claiming Plaintiff defaulted despite tendering
all amounts lawfully owed. The TAC states that these documents wrongly cast
doubt on Plaintiff’s property rights, implying a disputed debt amount. By
publishing and recording these notices, Defendants allegedly made false
statements about Plaintiff’s title, fulfilling the requirements for a slander
of title claim. (TAC ¶¶ 116-118.) 
 
            In reply, Defendants argue that
Plaintiff’s slander of title claim fails because she cannot establish that the
Notice of Default was false, as she admits to being in default on the loan.
Plaintiff’s opposition focuses on alleged unlawful interest due to usury but
lacks any specific calculation or evidence to substantiate these claims, which
are yet to be adjudicated. Defendants assert that the Notice of Default
accurately reflected Plaintiff's default status under the loan agreement, so
the notice was valid. Further, Plaintiff did not address the qualified
privilege for foreclosure notices, which protects foreclosure documents unless
malice is shown. (Civil Code § 2924 subd. (d).) Defendants note that they
waited nearly a year after Plaintiff’s default before initiating foreclosure,
showing good faith rather than malice. Thus, Defendants argue the demurrer
should be sustained without leave to amend, as Plaintiff has not established
falsity, relies on inapplicable legal authorities, and failed to overcome the
privilege that shields the foreclosure process.
 
            The Court finds that the TAC fails
to adequately allege facts to support the slander of title claim. Plaintiff’s
allegations lack specific facts demonstrating that the recorded Notice of
Default or Notice of Trustee's Sale contained false information or were
maliciously recorded. While Plaintiff claims the amounts stated are
"unlawful," she does not provide any further information as to how
the figures are inaccurate under the terms of the loan agreement. Furthermore,
Plaintiff does not allege facts sufficient to overcome the qualified privilege
afforded to foreclosure notices, nor does she show malice, which is necessary
to challenge this privilege. (Civil Code § 2924 subd. (d).)
 
Thus,
the Court sustains the Demurrer to the fifth cause of action with leave to
amend.
 
Cause
of Action 6 – Violations of Business and Professions Code section 17200, et
seq. as to Defendants David De Wispelaere and Maes Capital
 
The
Court incorporates the arguments and analysis discussed under the first cause
of action.
 
Thus,
the Court sustains the Demurrer to the sixth cause of action as to Defendants
David De Wispelaere and Maes Capital without leave to amend.
 
Cause
of Action 7 – Breach of Contract
 
            To establish a cause of action for
breach of contract, the plaintiff must plead and prove (1) the existence of the
contract, (2) the plaintiff's performance or excuse for nonperformance, (3) the
defendant's breach, and (4) resulting damages to the plaintiff. (Oasis West
Realty, LLC v. Goldman (2011) 51 Cal.4th 811, 821.)
 
Defendants
argue that Plaintiff’s breach of contract claim lacks merit because it does not
meet the necessary elements. Defendants point out that the Court previously
sustained a demurrer, stating that Plaintiff failed to show her own performance
or excuse for non-performance. Here, Plaintiff alleges that Defendant Maes
breached the loan agreement by violating laws, charging pre-disbursement
interest, improperly disbursing funds, initiating foreclosure, and harming
Plaintiff’s credit. However, Defendants assert none of these actions constitute
breaches of the contract. Defendants argue that the alleged legal violations
are covered under separate claims and are not within the contract terms.
Additionally, the loan agreement allows interest to accrue from March 18, 2022,
and as a construction loan, funds were customarily disbursed over time as
construction progressed. Plaintiff does not allege that disbursements were
withheld or that any contractual obligations regarding foreclosure or credit
protection were violated. The contract allows foreclosure upon default, which
Plaintiff admits, and no provisions in the loan documents address credit
reporting. Defendants state that claims of “improper disbursements” are
unsupported by specific allegations. Defendants conclude that Plaintiff’s
claims do not constitute contractual breaches and are mostly conclusory,
lacking factual support.
 
In
opposition, Plaintiff argues that the breach of contract claim is properly
pleaded, with all essential elements established and reiterated in the TAC. In
paragraph 135, Plaintiff lists Defendants' alleged breaches, including charging
interest on undisbursed
loan funds, failing to fully disburse the loan, making improper disbursements,
proceeding with foreclosure, harming Plaintiff’s credit, and demanding
excessive and illegal payoff amounts, all in violation of contractual
obligations. (TAC ¶ 135.)  Plaintiff also
asserts that she has fully performed her obligations under the contract and
incurred damages as a result of Defendants’ actions.
 
            In reply, Defendants argue that
Plaintiff's breach of contract claim fails due to a lack of specific
contractual support. Defendants also note inadequate legal analysis in
Plaintiff's opposition.  The loan
agreement specifies that interest accrues from March 18, 2022, and, as a
customary construction loan, allows for disbursements over time, making interest
on undisbursed funds lawful. Defendants further argue that the loan documents
permit foreclosure upon default, which Plaintiff admits, so initiating
foreclosure is within contractual rights and does not breach the agreement.
Additionally, impacts on Plaintiff's credit are not addressed in the loan
documents, nor is there evidence the loan affected Plaintiff's credit report. Since
Plaintiff has not cited any specific contractual language to support her claims
and previous amendments have not resolved these deficiencies, Defendants
request that the demurrer to the breach of contract cause of action be
sustained without leave to amend.
 
            The Court finds that the TAC alleges
sufficient facts to support a cause of action for breach of contract. Plaintiff
alleges that Defendants breached their contractual obligations by charging
interest on undisbursed loan proceeds, failing to fully disburse loan funds,
imposing excessive fees, and initiating foreclosure proceedings despite
Plaintiff’s attempts to satisfy lawful amounts owed. Additionally, Plaintiff
alleges Defendants demanded a payoff amount exceeding the contractually agreed
sum and acted without required licensing, further supporting the claim of
breach. (TAC ¶ 135.) Plaintiff also alleges that she fully performed her
obligations. (TAC ¶¶ 136-137.) These allegations, taken as true for purposes of
the demurrer, provide a sufficient basis to allow the breach of contract cause
of action to proceed.
 
            Thus, the Court overrules the Demurrer
to the seventh cause of action. 
 
 
Motion
to Strike
 
            According to Code of Civil Procedure
§ 436:
 
The
court may, upon a motion made pursuant to Section 435, or at any time in its
discretion, and upon terms it deems proper:
 
(a)
Strikeout any irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted in any pleading.
(b)
Strike out all or any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity
with the laws of this state, a court rule, or an order of the court.
 
However,
motions to strike in limited jurisdiction courts may only challenge pleadings
on the basis that “the damages or relief sought are not supported by the
allegations of the complaint.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 92(d).) The Code of Civil
Procedure also authorizes the Court to act on its own initiative to strike
matters, empowering the Court to enter orders striking matters “at any time in
its discretion, and upon terms it deems proper.”  (Code Civ. Proc. § 436.)  Furthermore, § 435.5 requires that “[b]efore
filing a motion to strike pursuant to this chapter, the moving party shall meet
and confer in person or by telephone with the party who filed the pleading that
is subject to the motion to strike for the purpose of determining whether an
agreement can be reached that resolves the objections to be raised in the
motion to strike.”  (Code Civ. Proc. §
435.5(a).)
 
            Defendants request that the Court
strike paragraphs
5, 8, 10, 11, and 45, which include claims about Defendants’ alter ego
relationships, alleged reckless disregard for Plaintiff’s rights, and
accusations of unlicensed broker activity by Defendant De Wispelaere; portions
of paragraphs 63 and 107 (lines 10-14), which allege that Defendants charged a
usurious default interest rate and imposed interest prior to disbursement;
paragraphs 64 (line 18), 88, 103, 107(d), 109, 114, 123, and 133, which make claims
of oppression, fraud, or malicious intent and request punitive damages; and
requests for “punitive and exemplary damages” on specific causes of action
throughout the prayer section on page 30-31 (lines 5, 16, 28, and on page 31 at
lines 7, 14, and 22). 
 
Defendants
argue that Plaintiff’s claim for punitive damages is unfounded, as punitive
damages require specific factual allegations of malice, fraud, or oppression,
which are absent in the TAC. Instead, Plaintiff provides only conclusory
statements without clear evidence of malicious or fraudulent intent.
Additionally, Defendants state that punitive damages are not recoverable under
several of Plaintiff’s claims, including TILA, RESPA, usury, and violations of
Business & Professions Code Section 17200. (People v. Jayhill Corporation
(1973) 9 Cal.3d 283, 287; Soleimany v. Narimanzadeh (2022) 78
Cal.App.5th 915; 15 U.S.C. §1640; 12 U.S.C. 2605.)
 
In
opposition, Plaintiff argues that the TAC contains sufficient facts to support
a claim for punitive damages. (Unruh v. Truck Insurance Exchange (1973)
7 Cal.3d 616, 632; Perkins v. Superior Court (1981) 117 Cal.App.3d. Plaintiff
asserts that punitive damage claims are viable if supported by general
allegations of malicious intent alongside relevant facts. Plaintiff maintains
that her TAC provides such support by detailing Defendants' alleged intentional
misconduct, including usurious interest charges, falsified payoff demands,
slander of title, failure to follow federal lending laws, and unlicensed broker
activities. Plaintiff states that these intentional torts, such as intentional
interference with prospective economic advantage and slander of title, justify
the inclusion of punitive damages because they imply intentional wrongdoing.
Plaintiff further asserts that she is not required to prove punitive damages at
the pleading stage but only to present sufficient facts to notify Defendants of
her intent to seek them. According to Plaintiff, the TAC’s allegations that
Defendants knowingly provided a usurious loan, demanded unlawful fees, failed
to make good faith disclosures under lending laws, and interfered with her
refinancing effort demonstrate, at minimum, a conscious disregard for her
rights. Plaintiff argues that while she will ultimately need to prove
oppression, fraud, or malice at trial, the facts alleged in the TAC provide a
reasonable foundation for punitive damages, justifying their inclusion at this
stage.
 
In
reply, Defendants argue that Plaintiff’s allegations are insufficient to
support a claim for punitive damages. They contend that paragraphs cited by
Plaintiff in her opposition fail to meet the required standard as they lack
specific facts showing fraud, malice, or oppression. (Civ. Code § 3294.) Defendants
note that while Plaintiff alleges the payoff demand, Notice of Default, and
Notice of Trustee’s Sale included unaccounted payments and excessive charges,
she does not provide evidence of any payments or clarify the alleged
inaccuracies. Plaintiff’s assertion that the loan was for consumer purposes,
while contradicted by a real estate broker’s testimony that the loan was
intended for building and selling a new home, is unsupported by factual details
in the TAC. Defendants argue that making a business loan under these conditions
is not evidence of fraud or malice. Defendants further contend that allegations
regarding mandatory consumer loan disclosures and usurious interest rates lack
supporting details and, instead, reflect Plaintiff’s own contradictory
statements about the broker’s involvement in arranging the loan. They argue
there is nothing unlawful in a lender relying on documents that Plaintiff
admits to signing. Defendants also argue that Plaintiff’s allegations of
unlicensed broker activity are conclusory, with no supporting facts about prior
transactions involving De Wispelaere, making his licensing status irrelevant to
this case. Lastly, Defendants point out that punitive damages are not recoverable
under Business & Professions Code Section 17200 (UCL), and Plaintiff’s
failure to address this in her response implies acceptance of their motion to
strike punitive damages for UCL violations. 
 
            “In order to survive a motion to
strike an allegation of punitive damages, the ultimate facts showing an
entitlement to such relief must be pled by a plaintiff.” (Clauson v.
Superior Court (1998) 67 Cal.App.4th 1253, 1255.) A request for punitive
damages may be made pursuant to Civil Code section 3294 subdivision (a),
which provides that “[i]n an action for the breach of an obligation not arising
from contract, where it is proven by clear and convincing evidence that the
defendant has been guilty of oppression, fraud, or malice, the plaintiff, in
addition to the actual damages, may recover damages for the sake of example and
by way of punishing the defendant.” (Civil Code § 3294 subd. (a).)
 
Under
the statute, malice is defined as “conduct which is intended by the defendant
to cause injury to the plaintiff or despicable conduct which is carried on by
the defendant with a willful and conscious disregard of the rights or safety of
others,” and oppression is defined as “despicable conduct that subjects a
person to cruel and unjust hardship in conscious disregard of that person’s
rights.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 3294(c)(1), (c)(2).) Although not defined by the
statute, despicable conduct refers to circumstances that are base, vile, or
contemptible. (College Hospital, Inc. v. Superior Court (1994) 8 Cal.4th
704, 725.) Also, “[u]nder the statute, malice does not require actual intent to
harm…Conscious disregard for the safety of another may be sufficient where the
defendant is aware of the probable dangerous consequences of his or her conduct
and he or she willfully fails to avoid such consequences…. [Citation.]” (Pfeifer
v. John Crane, Inc. (2013) 220 Cal.App.4th 1270, 1299.)
 
As
to the first cause of action, Defendants point out that damages for TILA are
set by statute and nowhere therein is there reference to punitive damages. (15
U.S.C. §1640.) Plaintiff fails to respond to this argument. Thus, the Court
strikes paragraph 88 with leave to amend since the cause of action was only
sustained without leave to amend as to Defendants David De Wispelaere and Maes
Capital.
 
Given
the Court’s finding that the TAC fails to sufficiently allege facts to support the
third cause of action and the Court’s sustaining without leave to amend, the
Court strikes paragraphs 103 and prayer for relief for punitive and exemplary
damages as to the third cause of action, without leave to amend. 
 
The
remaining causes of action have either been overruled or only apply to
Defendants David De Wispelaere and Maes Capital. Thus, there is no basis to
strike on the grounds that the TAC fails to allege facts to support a request
for punitive damages. Furthermore, the Court finds that Plaintiff’s allegations
are sufficient to support a claim for punitive damages. Thus, the Court denies
Defendants’ motion to strike paragraphs 63, 64, 88, 103, 107, 109, 114, 123,
133, and prayer for relief as to the second, third, fourth, fifth, and sixth
causes of action.
 
Defendants
also argue that Plaintiff’s "alter ego" allegations, which claim that
Defendants are essentially the same entity, lack the necessary factual
foundation. 
            
            Given the Court’s sustaining of the
causes of action without leave to amend, regarding the alter ego allegations,
the Court strikes paragraphs 5, 8, 10, 11, and 45 without leave to amend. 
 


Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
Southwest District
Torrance Dept. E




 
STEPHANIE
  GAUSS,


 
 
 
Plaintiff,


 
Case No.:
 


 
23TRCV03015




 
v.


 


 
[Tentative]
  Granted in part
 




 
DAVID DE
  WISPELAERE, et al.,


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Defendants.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing
Date:             December 17, 2024     
 
Moving
Parties:          Defendants David de
Wispelaere, Annie Maes, and Maes Capital
 
Responding
Party:      Plaintiff Stephanie Gauss
 
HEARING: Motion for Sanctions
            
The
Court considered the moving, opposition, and reply papers.  
 
RULING
 
            The Court orders Plaintiff to appear for
Deposition in the next twenty days and imposes monetary sanctions in the amount
of $4,950.

 
BACKGROUND
 
On September 12, 2023, Plaintiff Stephanie
Gauss filed a complaint against Defendants David De Wispelaere, Annie Maes, Maes
Capital, First American Title Insurance Company, and DOES 1 through 50,
inclusive. 
 
On April 9, 2024, Plaintiff filed the First
Amended Complaint against the same defendants. 
 
On April 26, 2024, Maes filed a
Cross-Complaint against Ime Inyang Oduok, Beach Cities Re, Inc. (“Beach”),
Stephanie Gauss, and DOES 1-25, alleging (1) Negligence; (2) Equitable
Indemnity; (3) Fraudulent Nondisclosure; (4) Negligent Nondisclosure; (5)
Impress and Foreclose Equitable Lien – Count I; (6) Impress and Foreclose
Equitable Lien – Count II; and (7) Declaratory Relief.
 
            On November 7, 2024,
Defendants David De Wispelaere, Annie Maes, and Maes Capital filed the instant
Motion to Enforce the Court’s Order and for Monetary, Evidentiary, Issue,
Contempt, and Terminating Sanctions.
 
            On November 26, 2024,
Plaintiff filed the Opposition.
 
            On December 10, 2024,
Defendant filed the Reply.
 
LEGAL STANDARD
 
            The court is
authorized, after notice and opportunity for hearing, to impose the following
sanctions against anyone engaging in conduct that is a misuse of the discovery
process: monetary sanctions, issue sanctions, evidence sanctions, terminating
sanctions, and contempt. (Code
Civ. Proc., §¿2023.030 subd. (a)-(e).) A terminating sanction may be imposed by
an order dismissing the action against whom the sanction is imposed. (Code Civ. Proc.,
§¿2023.030 subd. (d)(3).)  
 
Code of Civil Procedure, section 2023.010,
subdivision (g), provides that a misuse of the discovery process includes, but
is not limited to, “[d]isobeying a court order to provide
discovery.”  
 
“The discovery statutes evince an incremental
approach to discovery sanctions, starting with monetary sanctions and ending
with the ultimate sanction of termination.” (Doppes v. Bentley Motors, Inc.¿(2009)
174 Cal.App.4th 967, 992; see J.W. v. Watchtower Bible and Tract Society of
New York, Inc.¿(2018) 29 Cal.App.5th 1142, 1169.) If a lesser sanction
fails to curb misuse, a greater sanction is warranted. (Doppes, supra,
174 Cal.App.4th at p. 992.) Discovery sanctions should be appropriate to the
dereliction and should not exceed what is required to protect the interests of
the party entitled to but denied discovery. (Ibid.) “But where a
violation is willful, preceded by a history of abuse, and the evidence shows
that less severe sanctions would not produce compliance with the discovery
rules, the trial court is justified in imposing the ultimate sanction.” (Ibid.,
quoting Mileikowsky v. Tenet Healthsystem (2005) 128 Cal.App.4th 262,
279-280; Creed-21 v. City of Wildomar¿(2017) 18 Cal.App.5th 690, 702
(quoting same).)  
 
Because terminating sanctions are the most
“drastic” penalty, they are typically a “last resort” to be “used sparingly”;
however, they may still be appropriate “as a first measure” in “extreme cases”
where a litigant violates a court order and “persists in the outright refusal
to comply with [its] discovery obligations.” (Siry Investment, L.P. v.
Farkhondehpour¿(2020) 45 Cal.App.5th 1098, 1118,¿as modified on denial of
reh’g (Mar. 23, 2020).)
 
 
REQUEST FOR JUDICIAL NOTICE
 
            Defendants
request that the Court take judicial notice of the Motion to Compel filed June
28, 2024, and the Minute order dated September 5, 2024.
 
            The Court grants
Plaintiff’s requests for judicial notice pursuant to Evidence Code sections
452(d) and (h).
 
DISCUSSION 
 
            Defendants’ motion seeks an order
enforcing this Court’s Order of September 5, 2024, and seeks monetary,
evidentiary, issue, contempt, and terminating sanctions against Plaintiff. The
September 5 Minute Order required Plaintiff to sit for a further deposition and
answer questions that she had previously failed to answer in front of a
discovery referee. (Sept. 5 Minutes Order.) Plaintiff states that Defendant has
defied the Court order by refusing to sit for deposition.
 
Defendants
argue that Plaintiff’s failure to comply with a prior court order to sit for
deposition before a discovery referee constitutes a clear misuse of the
discovery process. (Code Civ. Proc. § 2023.030 subd. (e); Code Civ. Proc.
§2023.010 (g).)  As a result, Defendants
seek sanctions, including terminating, issue, evidentiary, monetary, and
contempt sanctions, due to Plaintiff's willful disobedience.
 
Defendants
state that Defendants only need to show that Plaintiff did not comply with a
court order, after which the burden shifts to Plaintiff who must show a
satisfactory excuse to avoid sanction. (Corns v. Miller (1986) 181
Cal.App.3d 195, 201; Williams v. Russ (2008) 167
Cal.App.4th
1215, 1227.) Furthermore, Defendants assert that Plaintiff has no valid excuse
for failing to comply. They highlight Plaintiff’s repeated delays in scheduling
her deposition and her refusal to confirm proposed dates, despite Defendants’
willingness to accommodate her conditions. Plaintiff’s excuses, including the
alleged unilateral cancellation of a deposition, are disingenuous, as Plaintiff
failed to follow up or finalize alternative dates. 
 
Defendants
emphasize that terminating sanctions are warranted because Plaintiff’s refusal
to cooperate prevents Defendants from obtaining critical discovery necessary to
address Plaintiff’s claims, including the purpose of the loan, her occupation
as a real estate investor, and other representations regarding the property.
Plaintiff’s failure to answer these questions strikes at the core of the case.
Defendants contend that terminating sanctions are appropriate because
Plaintiff’s disobedience meets the required elements: failure to comply,
willfulness, and defiance of a prior court order. (Lang v. Hochman (2000)
77 Cal.App.4th 1225,1246; Valbona v. Springer (1996) 43 Cal.App.4th
1525, 1545; Ruvalcaba v. Government Employees Ins. Co. (1990) 222
Cal.App.3d 1579, 1580-1581.)
 
In
the alternative, Defendants request issue sanctions, asking the Court to deem
specific facts established as a matter of law. These facts include:
 
a. That when Plaintiff obtained the
subject loan, she did so with the intention of constructing a new home and ADU,
and to sell the same for profit, i.e., that Plaintiff obtained the subject loan
as a “business purpose” loan.
b. That, at the time Plaintiff
obtained the subject loan, her occupation was as a real estate investor who had
previously purchased and developed real properties
c. That, at the time Plaintiff
obtained the subject loan, she had previously purchased other real property,
demolished the existing home, built a new home, and sold the same for profit.
d. That at no time prior to obtaining
the subject loan did Plaintiff ever intend to occupy the subject real property
as her primary residence.
e. That, at no time prior to
obtaining the subject loan did Plaintiff ever reside in the subject real
property as her primary residence.
f. That Plaintiff requested to change
the initial loan amount from $1.5 Million to $1.7 Million as reflected in the
loan agreement.
g. That Plaintiff represented in her
loan application submitted to De Wispelaer that the loan was a business purpose
loan, that she resided at other real property, namely 9728 Laraway, Los
Angeles, California, and that she owned other investment real properties.
h. That Ime Oduok, a licensed real
estate broker, made, arranged and negotiated the subject loan on behalf of Plaintiff.
 
 If issue sanctions are not imposed, Defendants
seek evidentiary sanctions to bar Plaintiff from introducing evidence on these
issues at trial. Defendants further request monetary sanctions in the amount of
$7,560 to compensate for the legal fees incurred in bringing this motion.
Lastly, Defendants argue that Plaintiff’s conduct rises to the level of
contempt as she has willfully disobeyed multiple court orders without
justification, impugning the integrity of the judicial process. (Code Civ.
Proc. § 2023.030(e).)
 
In
opposition, Plaintiff argues that the motion is premature, unnecessary, and
inequitable given Defendants’ own failures to meet their pre-existing discovery
obligations.
 
First,
Plaintiff emphasizes that she has already attended three deposition sessions
totaling thirteen hours and is willing to appear for the fourth session.
However, she insists that Defendants David De Wispelaere, Annie Maes, and Maes
Capital first comply with their own outstanding discovery obligations. These
include attending their depositions, which were unilaterally canceled by each
Defendant at the last minute and providing overdue supplemental responses to
the written discovery that have been pending for over five months.
 
Plaintiff
further highlights the significant costs she incurred when accommodating
Defendant Annie Maes for a scheduled deposition in Brussels, Belgium. These
costs included renting a conference room, hiring an interpreter, and bringing
in a computer technician with a laptop, only for Ms. Maes to cancel at the last
minute. Ms. Maes later appeared for a partial deposition via smartphone while
sitting in a car, necessitating another session. Despite this, Ms. Maes refuses
to reimburse Plaintiff for the over $1,000 in costs caused by her unusual
demands and subsequent cancellation, claiming they are merely “costs of
litigation.”
 
Plaintiff
contends that Defendants’ repeated cancellations and failure to comply with
discovery obligations undermine the credibility of their request for sanctions.
She argues that paying a large non-refundable deposit for a Discovery Referee
without assurances that Defendants will honor their obligations is
unreasonable, particularly when two Defendants, De Wispelaere and Maes Capital,
have not yet been deposed at all.
 
Plaintiff
also asserts that the court’s prior ruling requiring her to appear for a fourth
session did not include a specific deadline or location. Given that no trial
date has been set and no evidence of prejudice has been shown, she argues there
is no urgency to proceed. She further notes that the parties had agreed to
participate in an Informal Discovery Conference prior to the hearing on this
motion, making the motion premature.
 
Plaintiff
requests that the court deny the motion, refrain from imposing any sanctions,
and order Defendants to fulfill their outstanding discovery obligations first.
She also seeks reimbursement of $6,600 in legal fees incurred in opposing the
motion, emphasizing that Defendants’ own conduct has caused unnecessary costs
and delays.
 
            In reply, Defendants emphasize that
the court’s minute order is a valid and enforceable order, regardless of
whether it specifies a date or location, and Plaintiff’s failure to schedule
her deposition for over 90 days demonstrates defiance of court authority.
 
Defendants
refute Plaintiff’s claims regarding the depositions of the Defendants,
asserting that Annie Maes has already been deposed and that David De Wispelaere
has provided numerous dates for his deposition, which Plaintiff has failed to
confirm. Defendants highlight that Plaintiff’s argument of discovery priority
is unfounded since California law allows discovery in any sequence. (Code Civ.
Proc. § 2019.020). Further, they contend that Plaintiff’s claim of unresolved
discovery issues is meritless, as Defendants have produced substantial
documents, with only minor pending verifications remaining. 
 
 They stress that Plaintiff’s delays are a
calculated strategy to obstruct justice and avoid repayment of the loan, which
has been in default since September 2022. Defendants emphasize the financial
harm to Annie Maes, who loaned her life savings to Plaintiff, and note that
Plaintiff continues to occupy the property while preventing foreclosure through
legal maneuvers.
 
Defendant
has shown that Plaintiff has failed to comply with a Court ruling, and
therefore, the burden shifts to Plaintiff, who must show a satisfactory excuse
to avoid sanction. (Corns, supra, 181 Cal.App.3d 195, 201.
 
            First, Plaintiff argues that the Court’s
ruling ordering the deposition of the Plaintiff was not in the form of an
order. The Court finds this argument non-cognizable; the ruling was clear in
stating that Plaintiff must submit for deposition. Next, Plaintiff argues that
the ruling does not specify when and where Plaintiff must be deposed, and that
Plaintiff is currently willing to be deposed. While this argument may have been
persuasive if the instant motion was brought shortly after the ruling, given
that it has been 3 months since the Court’s ruling and Plaintiff has still not
scheduled the deposition, the Court finds this argument unpersuasive. Last,
Plaintiff states that Plaintiff will appear at deposition once Defendants
respond to outstanding discovery requests. The Court questions why Plaintiff
believes she has the standing to negotiate a Court ruling. Furthermore,
Defendants' discovery obligations are immaterial to whether Plaintiff has
complied with the September 5 ruling. Therefore, The Court finds that Plaintiff
has willfully violated a Court Order and that sanctions are appropriate. (Code
Civ. Proc. § 2023.030 subd. (e); Code Civ. Proc. §2023.010 (g).) 
 
Sanctions
 
            Defendants request terminating,
issue, evidence, contempt, and monetary sanctions. However, “The
discovery statutes evince an incremental approach to discovery sanctions,
starting with monetary sanctions and ending with the ultimate sanction of
termination.” (Doppes supra, 174 Cal.App.4th 967, 992.) While Plaintiff
has disobeyed a court ruling, she has attempted to show justification for it.
Furthermore, while Plaintiff has been evasive regarding discovery requests, the
Court finds that discovery has been contentious between both parties, and
neither party has shown itself to be blameless. Last, no trial date has been
set, and discovery is ongoing. Thus, no prejudice requiring issue or
evidentiary sanctions is present. Consequently, the Court finds that only
monetary sanctions are appropriate.
 
            Defendants request
that $7,560.00 in sanctions be imposed upon the Plaintiffs in accordance with
the costs of bringing the instant motion. (Code Civ. Proc. § 2023.030 subd. (a).) Defendants Counsel
states they spent 13.8 hours preparing the instant motion, 1 hour preparing the
reply, and 2 hours attending the hearing at $450 an hour. Defendants’ counsel
also requests $1,350 in additional fees. The Court lowers the 13.8 hours spent
preparing the instant motion to 8 hours and strikes the additional fees.
 
            Therefore, the Court
orders Defendant to appear for Deposition in the next ten court days and
imposes monetary sanctions in the amount of $4,950.
            