  Case Number:  24STCV06042    Hearing Date:   May 3, 2024    Dept:  47 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Theresa M. Traber, Department 47
 
 
HEARING DATE:     May 6, 2024               TRIAL DATE: NOT SET
                                                           
CASE:                         Junkers2Jewels LLC, et al. v. La-Doris
McClaney, Trustee of the La-Doris McCLaney Family Trust, et al. 
 
CASE NO.:                 24STCV06042            
 
MOTION
TO EXPUNGE LIS PENDENS

 
MOVING PARTY:               Defendant La-Doris McClaney, Trustee of the La-Doris
McClaney Family Trust
 
RESPONDING PARTY(S): Plaintiffs
Junkers2Jewels, LLC and Matthew Pelanne.
 
CASE
HISTORY:
·        
03/11/24: Complaint filed.
·        
03/25/24: Cross-Complaint filed. 
 
STATEMENT
OF MATERIAL FACTS AND/OR PROCEEDINGS:
            
            This is an action for breach of contract. Plaintiffs allege that Defendants
breached a purchase agreement for a parcel of real property by unilaterally
cancelling escrow. 
 
Defendant La-Doris McClaney,
Trustee of the La-Doris McClaney Family Trust, moves to expunge a notice of lis
pendens recorded against the subject property. 
            
TENTATIVE RULING:
 
            Defendant’s
Motion to Expunge Lis Pendens is DENIED. 
 
DISCUSSION:
 
Defendant La-Doris McClaney,
Trustee of the La-Doris McClaney Family Trust, moves to expunge a notice of lis
pendens recorded against the subject property. 
 
//
 
//
Missing Proof of Service
 
            As an
initial matter, no proof of service accompanied Defendant’s moving papers.
However, Plaintiffs substantively responded to the motion and do not object to
the motion as improperly served. The Court will therefore overlook this
deficiency and address the motion on the merits. 
 
Legal Standard for Expungement of Lis Pendens
 
A lis pendens is a recorded
document that gives constructive notice that an action affecting title or right
to possession of real property has been filed and may be filed by any party
that asserts a real property claim to that real property. (Kirkeby v.
Sup. Ct. (2004) 33 Cal.4th 642, 647.) A person with an interest in the
affected real property can petition the court to expunge the lis pendens.
(Code Civ. Proc. § 405.30.) The court must order the lis pendens
expunged if it finds that (a) there is no real property claim, (b) the claimant
did not establish by a preponderance of the evidence the probable validity of
the real property claim, or (c) adequate relief can be secured by giving an
undertaking. (Code Civ. Proc. §§ 405.31- 405.33.) A real property claim is a
cause of action that, if successful, would affect title to or the right of
possession of specific real property or the use of an easement identified in a
pleading.  (Code Civ. Proc. § 405.4.) 
 
On a motion to expunge for lack of
probable validity under section 405.32, the burden is on the claimant to
demonstrate, by a preponderance of the evidence, the probable validity of the
claim. (Code Civ. Proc. § 405.30.) In ruling on the motion, “evidence or
declarations may be filed with the motion,” and the Court “may permit evidence
to be received in the form of oral testimony, and may make any orders it deems
just to provide for discovery by any
party affected by a motion to expunge the notice.” (Id.) “‘Probable
validity,’ with respect to a real property claim, means that it is more likely
than not that the claimant will obtain a judgment against the defendant on the
claim.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 405.3.) 
 
Analysis
 
            Defendant
moves to expunge a notice of lis pendens recorded against the subject
property on the grounds that Plaintiffs cannot establish the probable validity
of a real property claim. The Complaint alleges a single cause of action for
breach of contract with respect to the Commercial Purchase Agreement for the
property located at 8543 Cashio Street, Los Angeles, CA 90035. (Complaint ¶¶
7g; BC-1 – BC-2.) The Complaint seeks specific performance of the contract, or
alternatively, money damages for lost profits. (Id. ¶¶ BC-4; BC-6.) 
 
            To prevail
on a cause of action for breach of contract, a plaintiff must establish (1) the
contract, (2) the plaintiff’s performance of the contract or excuse for
nonperformance, (3) Defendant’s breach, and finally (4) the resulting damage. (See,
e.g., Otworth v. Southern Pac. Transportation Co. (1985) 166 Cal.App.3d
452, 458.) To obtain the remedy of specific performance, the plaintiff must
also establish the inadequacy of the remedy at law. (Darbun Enterprises,
Inc. v. San Fernando Hospital (2015) 239 Cal.App.4th 399, 409 fn. 5.) Real property is presumptively unique such that the loss of
possession cannot be adequately relieved by monetary damages. (Civ. Code §
3387.) 
 
            Defendant
contends that Plaintiffs cannot establish the probable validity of their claim because
(1) Plaintiffs cannot show that they performed their obligations under the
contract and (2) Plaintiffs cannot show that Defendant breached any terms of
the contract. The Complaint alleges that Defendant refused to provide tenant
Subordination, Non-Disturbance, and Attornment (SNDA) agreements to Plaintiffs so
that they could secure the necessary funding from Plaintiffs’ lender to
purchase the property. (Complaint ¶ BC-1; Exhs. 1-2.) Defendant argues that Plaintiffs’
demands for Defendant to sign these agreements constitute an admission that
Plaintiffs did not have the funds to complete the sale, and, therefore, could
not perform their obligations under the agreement. Defendant freely concedes
that she did not provide the SNDAs and argues that she was not obligated to do
so under the express terms of the contract and was within her rights to
withdraw from the agreement based on Plaintiffs’ apparent inability to fund
escrow. (See Declaration of La-Doris McClaney ISO Mot. ¶¶ 10-11.) 
 
            Defendant,
in essence, admits she refused to assist Plaintiffs in completing a necessary
step to ensure that Plaintiffs could comply with their obligations under the
contract, and, thereafter, withdrew from the contract on the basis of Plaintiffs’
putative nonperformance. “There is an implied covenant of good faith and
fair dealing in every contract that neither party will do anything which will
injure the right of the other to receive the benefits of the agreement.” (Comunale
v. Traders & General Ins. Co. (1958) 50 Cal.2d 654, 658.) Defendant’s
own evidence and admissions in her filings demonstrate, on their face, a breach
of this obligation. Defendant attempts to brush off this obligation by arguing
that obtaining executed SNDAs from the tenants at the properties is a
substantive duty that cannot be imposed as part of the implied covenant of good
faith and fair dealing. (Guz v. Bechtel National, Inc. (2000) 24 Cal.4th
317, 349-350.) The Court is not persuaded by Defendant’s conclusory assertions.
Nor is the Court moved by the supplemental assertion, unsupported by evidence
or sworn testimony, that Defendant acted reasonably in refusing to obtain
executed SNDAs. The exhibits attached to the Complaint and Defendant’s own
evidence and admissions demonstrate the probable validity of Plaintiffs’ claims
by conceding the central allegations of the Complaint. 
 
Undertaking
 
            Defendant
requests that the Court require Plaintiffs to post an undertaking in the amount
of $1.5 million to maintain the lis pendens. The Court may require an
undertaking to be posted to maintain a notice of lis pendens “upon
motion by any person with an interest in the property.” (Code Civ. Proc. §
405.34.) Here, however, no such request was made in Defendant’s notice of
motion. The Court therefore declines to consider the request for an undertaking
at this juncture. 
 
//
CONCLUSION:

 
            Accordingly,
Defendant’s Motion to Expunge Lis Pendens is DENIED. 
 
            Moving
Party to give notice.
 
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
Dated:  May 6, 2024               ___________________________________
                                                                                    Theresa
M. Traber
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court
 

            Any party may submit on the
tentative ruling by contacting the courtroom via email at Smcdept47@lacourt.org by no later than 4:00 p.m. the day
before the hearing. All interested parties must be copied on the email. It
should be noted that if you submit on a tentative ruling the court will still
conduct a hearing if any party appears. By submitting on the tentative you
have, in essence, waived your right to be present at the hearing, and you
should be aware that the court may not adopt the tentative, and may issue an
order which modifies the tentative ruling in whole or in part.
 