 Case Number:  23AHCV00290    Hearing Date:   June 17, 2024    Dept:  X    Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Joel L. Lofton,
Department X
 
 
HEARING DATE:      June 17, 2024                                      TRIAL DATE: October 15, 2024 
                                                           
CASE:                         ANTHONY K. CHU
d.b.a. LAW OFFICES OF ANTHONY K. CHU v. JIAN JUN LIU a.k.a. MATT LIU, an
Individual; and DOES 1 through 20, inclusive.  
 
CASE NO.:                 23AHCV00290
 
 
 
MOTION
TO BE RELIEVED AS COUNSEL

 
MOVING PARTY:               Kenneth
D. Sisco
 
RESPONDING PARTY:      No response filed. 
 
SERVICE:                             Filed May 22,
2024
 
RELIEF
REQUESTED 
 
             Kenneth D. Sisco (“Sisco”) moves
to be relieved as counsel of record for Defendant Jian Jun Liu. 
 
BACKGROUND
 
             This case arises out of Plaintiff Anthony K.
Chu d.b.a. Law Offices of Anthony K. Chu’s (“Plaintiff”) claim for breach of
legal services agreement against Defendant Jian Jun Liu (“Defendant”) in
connection with Los Angeles County Superior Court Case Number BC661080.
Plaintiff filed this complaint on February 9, 2023.
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 
            Sisco’s motion to be relieved as counsel is tentatively DENIED
without prejudice.
 
LEGAL STANDARD
 
Code of Civil Procedure section 284, subdivision (1), allows for a change
or substitution of attorney “[u]pon the consent of both client and attorney,
filed with the clerk, or entered upon the minutes.” If both parties do not
consent to a substitution of attorney, Code of Civil Procedure section 284,
subdivision (2), allows for a substitution “[u]pon the order of the court, upon
the application of either client or attorney, after notice from one to the
other.” California Rules of Court Rule 3.1362 sets forth procedures for
relieving counsel without the mutual consent of both parties.
 
Under California Rules of Court Rule 3.1362, an attorney seeking to
withdraw by motion rather than by consent of the client, as here, is required
to make that motion using approved Judicial Council forms. The motion also
requires a declaration stating “in general terms, and without compromising the
confidentiality of the attorney-client relationship why a motion under Code of
Civil Procedure section 284, subdivision (2), is brought instead of filing a
consent under Code of Civil Procedure section 284, subdivision (1).” (Cal.
Rules of Court, rule 3.1362, subd. (c).) 
Judicial Council form MC-052, the attorney’s declaration, requires that
the client be provided no less than five days’ notice before hearing on the
motion. A proposed order prepared on form MC-053 must also be lodged with the
court with the moving papers.
 
            California
Rules of Court Rule 3.1362, subdivision (d), also requires that the motion,
notice of motion, the declaration, and the proposed order must be served on the
client and all other parties who have appeared in the case. The notice served
on the client by mail must be accompanied by a declaration stating facts that
show that either the service address is current or “that [t]he service address is the last known residence
or business address of the client and the attorney has been unable to locate a
more current address after making reasonable efforts to do so within 30 days
before the filing of the motion to be relieved.”
(Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1362, subd. (d).) 
 
The Court of Appeal has recognized, “[a] lawyer violates his or her
ethical mandate by abandoning a
client [citation], or by withdrawing at a critical point and thereby
prejudicing the client’s case. [Citation.] We are, however, aware of no
authority preventing an attorney from withdrawing from a case when withdrawal
can be accomplished without undue prejudice to the client’s interests.” (Ramirez v. Sturdevant (1994) 21 Cal.
App. 4th 904, 915.)
 
DISCUSSION
 
            Sisco moves to be relieves as counsel of record for Defendant Jian Jun Liu. Sisco states that his
health has significantly deteriorated over the past few years due to a couple
of heart attacks, as well as problems with neuropathy. (Sisco Decl., ¶ 2.) Sisco
indicates that his health prevents him from being unable to properly prepare
for trial and competently represent Defendant in the forthcoming trial. (Id.)
The Court finds this to be proper grounds for withdrawal. Rule 1.16,
subdivision (b)(8), of the California Rules of Professional Conduct, permits an
attorney to withdraw from representation if his or her mental or physical
condition renders the attorney unable to carry out the representation
effectively. (Cal. Rules of Professional Conduct, rule 1.16, subd. (b)(8).)[1]
 
            But, the Court notes a few
issues with Sisco’s motion. First, Sisco did not file and serve a copy of a
proposed order with the moving papers on Defendant or Plaintiff, as required by
Rule 3.1362, subdivision (e), of the California Rules of Court. (Cal. Rules of
Court, rule 3.1362, subd. (e).) Second, Sisco did not provide a declaration stating
that Defendant’s electronic service address is his current electronic service address,
as required by subdivision (d)(2) of Rule 3.1362 of the California Rules of
Court. (Sisco Decl., ¶ 3, subd. (b); Proof of Electronic Service (5/22/24); Cal.
Rules of Court, rule 3.1362, subd. (d)(2).) Third, the hearing dates listed in
the declaration did not specify the time of those hearings, and those dates are
no longer current. (Sisco Decl., ¶¶ 4-5.) Finally, the Court notes that the
motion was served on May 22, 2024, but the deadline for electronically serving
the motion was on May 21, 2024. (Code Civ. Proc., § 1005, subd. (b); Id.,
§ 1010.6, subd. (a)(3)(B).)
 
CONCLUSION
 
            Sisco’s motion to be relieved as counsel is tentatively
DENIED without prejudice.
 
 
 
            
Dated:   June 17, 2024                                                ___________________________________
                                                                                    Joel
L. Lofton
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court


