 Case Number:  23BBCV02069    Hearing Date:   April 5, 2024    Dept:  NCB  Superior Court of CaliforniaCounty of Los AngelesNorth Central DistrictDepartment B  KAREN TUTKHALYAN,                         Plaintiff,            v. LOS ANGELES METROPOLITAN TRANSPORTATION AUTHORITY, et al.,                         Defendants. Case No.:  23BBCV02069 Hearing Date:  April 5, 2024  [TENTATIVE] ORDER RE:MOTION TO STRIKE PORTIONS OF COMPLAINT  BACKGROUNDA.   AllegationsPlaintiff Karen Tutkhalyan (“Plaintiff”) alleges that he was a passenger aboard Defendant Los Angeles County Metropolitan Transportation Authority’s (“LACMTA”) bus and was injured when, upon boarding, the bus driver Defendant Jane Doe accelerated rapidly without allowing Plaintiff to secure himself.  Plaintiff alleges that he fell and sustained significant injuries.The complaint, filed September 8, 2023, alleges a single cause of action for negligence and statutory liability.B.    Motion on CalendarOn February 29, 2024, LACMTA filed a motion to strike portions of the complaint.On March 22, 2024, Plaintiff filed an opposition brief.On March 28, 2024, LACMTA filed a reply brief. DISCUSSION            LACMTA moves to strike page 3, lines 5-7 from the complaint, which alleges: “carelessly and negligently trained, supervised, performed work, and selected, hired, engaged, retained and, permitted Defendant JANE DOE to operate the subject bus.”  (Compl., ¶10.)  LACMTA argues that there is no statutory authority for negligent entrustment or supervision against a public entity such as LACMTA. Under the statutory scheme in California, all government tort liability must be based on statute.  (Duarte v. City of San Jose (1980) 100 Cal.App.3d 648, 653.)  Government Code, § 815 states that except as otherwise provided by statute, “A public entity is not liable for an injury, whether such injury arises out of an act or omission of the public entity or a public employee or any other person.”  (Gov. Code, § 815(a).)  However, “A public entity is liable for injury proximately caused by an act or omission of an employee of the public entity within the scope of his employment if the act or omission would, apart from this section, have given rise to a cause of action against that employee or his personal representative.”  (Gov. Code, § 815.2(a).) In opposition, Plaintiff argues that common carriers like LACMTA have a heightened duty of care as provided for in Civil Code, § 2100 et seq.[1]  Plaintiff cites to C.A. v. William S. Hart Union High School Dist. (2012) 53 Cal.4th 861, arguing that a public entity may be vicariously liable for the negligence of its employees.  (C.A., supra, 53 Cal.4th at 879 [“[A] public school district may be vicariously liable under section 815.2 for the negligence of administrators or supervisors in hiring, supervising and retaining a school employee who sexually harasses and abuses a student.”].)  In reply, LACMTA argues that C.A. is distinguishable because a special relationship existed between the school administrators/supervisors and the students under their supervision.  (Id. at 877 [“Absent such a special relationship, there can be no individual liability to third parties for negligent hiring, retention or supervision of a fellow employee, and hence no vicarious liability under section 815.2 (or, for private organizations, under common law respondeat superior principles).”].)Here, the Court finds that the allegations are sufficient to allege a claim for negligent entrustment or supervision against LACMTA.  Plaintiff’s complaint alleges that Defendants LACMTA and Jane Doe were common carriers operating a bus line under Civil Code, § 2168 (common carrier defined) and that they owed a duty to Plaintiff as a passenger to use the utmost care and diligent for his safe carriage.  (Compl., ¶¶7-8.)  The complaint alleges that Jane Doe acted within the scope of her duties as an employee of LACMTA and she was careless and negligent in the operation, maintenance, inspection, control, and driving of the LACMTA bus when she rapidly accelerated upon Plaintiff’s boarding without giving him the opportunity to sit or secure himself.  (Id., ¶9.)  Whether Plaintiff can prove that LACMTA’s employee, Defendant Jane Doe, was actually negligent in driving the bus at the time of the subject incident and whether this was done during the scope of her employment, will be determined beyond the pleading stage. The motion to strike is denied.CONCLUSION AND ORDERDefendant Los Angeles County Metropolitan Transportation Authority’s motion to strike portions of the complaint is denied.  Defendant is ordered to answer.