 Case Number:  22NWCV01403    Hearing Date:   November 8, 2023    Dept:  C Trejo v. los angeles unified school district 
CASE NO.:  22NWCV01403
HEARING:   11/8/23 @ 9:30 AM
#4
 
    
I.       
Defendant’s Motion to Strike is GRANTED with leave to amend. 
 
   
II.       
Defendant’s Demurrer is OVERRULED.
Moving Party to give NOTICE.
 
Defendant Los Angeles Unified School District
(Defendant) demurs to Plaintiff’s only cause of action for Negligence and moves
to strike portions of the First Amended Complaint (FAC) related to Defendant’s
statutory duty.
Background
Plaintiff
Danny Trejo (Plaintiff), a minor, through his Guardian Ad Litem, Laura Trejo,
filed a Complaint against Defendant alleging that Plaintiff was injured while
under the supervision of Defendant. Plaintiff asserts that he has disabilities
which affect his ability to ambulate and he required constant supervision. (FAC
¶¶ 14-15.) Plaintiff alleges that Defendant knew of the need to constantly
supervise Plaintiff and failed to do so which led to Plaintiff injuring his
knee while using playground equipment. (FAC ¶¶ 15 and 19.)
Legal
Standard
The party against whom
a complaint has been filed may object to the pleading, by demurrer, on several
grounds, including the ground that the pleading does not state facts sufficient
to constitute a cause of action. (CCP § 430.10(e).) A party may demur to an
entire complaint, or to any causes of action stated therein. (CCP § 430.50(a).)
Motions
to strike are used to reach defects or objections to pleadings which are not
challengeable by demurrer (i.e., words, phrases, prayer for damages, etc.). (CCP
§§ 435, 436 & 437.) A motion to strike lies only where the pleading has
irrelevant, false or improper matter, or has not been drawn or filed in
conformity with laws. (C.C.P. § 436.) The grounds for moving to strike must
appear on the face of the pleading or by way of judicial notice. (C.C.P. §
437.)
Discussion

Defendant moves to strike Plaintiff’s reference
in ¶ 12 of the FAC to the California Constitution and the California Education
Code in support of Plaintiff’s claim that Defendant owed him a statutory duty.
Paragraph 12 of the FAC alleges Defendant LAUSD is liable to Plaintiff for the
acts of defendants, its employees, agents and DOES 1 through 50 pursuant to
California Government Code § 815.2 & 815.6; Cal. Cont. Art, Sec. 28(c);
the Individuals with Disabilities Education Act, 20 U.S.C. Section 1400 et seq.;
the California Education Code, including but not limited to, § 32261(a);
and other laws or regulations.” 
Defendant seeks to strike the bolded portion. 
Plaintiff argues that the California
Constitution “informs the nature of the duty that [Defendant] had in
negligence.” (Opp., p. 3, lns. 27-28.) Plaintiff alleges that Defendant “is
liable … pursuant to” the Constitution. However, Section 28(c) of the
California Constitution “does not create any cause of action for compensation
or damages against the State, any political subdivision of the State, any
officer, employee, or agent of the State or of any of its political
subdivisions, or any officer or employee of the court.” (California Const. Art.
1, § 28(c)(2).)
Additionally, Plaintiff argues that its
reference to the California Education Code as a basis for liability is proper
because Hector F. v. El Centro Elementary Sch. Dist. (2014) 227
Cal.App.4th 331, 333 ruled that § 32261(a) created  "an affirmative duty to protect public
school students from discrimination and harassment engendered by race, gender,
sexual orientation or disability." However, Plaintiff has not pled facts
to support a claim for discrimination or harassment. Therefore, Defendant’s
Motion to Strike is granted as to references to the California Constitution and
Education Code in ¶ 12 of the FAC.
Defendant argues that Plaintiff failed to plead
facts to constitute a cause of action for governmental liability with
particularity. Because all liability under the Government Claims Act is
statutory, “the general rule that statutory causes of action must be pleaded
with particularity is applicable.” (Susman v. City of Los Angeles (1969)
269 Cal.App.2d 803, 809.) Thus, “to state a cause of action every fact
essential to the existence of statutory liability must be pleaded with
particularity, including the existence of a statutory duty.” (Searcy v.
Hemet Unified School District (1986) 177 Cal. App. 3d 792, 802.)
Plaintiff alleges that “California Government
Code § 815.2 & 815.6” create a statutory duty by Defendant to Plaintiff and
in particular that Defendant “owed a duty of reasonable care, custody, and
supervision to Plaintiff, as a student with an Individualized Education
Program” and “owed a duty to Plaintiff with constant supervision and assistance
in ambulating.” (FAC ¶¶ 12 and 16.) On December 3, 2021, Defendant “failed to
constantly supervise and assist Plaintiff in ambulating, and allowed Plaintiff
to utilize playground equipment which posed a serious risk of injury to
Plaintiff given his balance, ambulation and cognitive deficiencies. As a
result, Plaintiff used the playground equipment and sustained significant
injuries, including a dislocation/fracture to his right knee.” (FAC ¶ 19.) Thus,
Plaintiff has plead sufficient facts to constitute a cause of action for
negligence with particularity.
Plaintiff does not oppose Defendant’s motion to
strike “the Individuals with Disabilities Education Act, 20 U.S.C. Section 1400
et seq.”  This portion of the FAC is again
stricken without leave to amend.  In all
other respects, Plaintiffs’ request for leave to amend the stricken portions of
the FAC is granted.
 
Accordingly, Defendant’s
Motion to Strike is GRANTED with leave to amend. Plaintiff may file an amended
complaint within 20 days of this Order. Defendant’s Demurrer is OVERRULED.
 
 