 Case Number:  23NWCV00762    Hearing Date:   November 8, 2023    Dept:  C Castillo, et al. v. avmgh six-thunderbird villa, et al.
CASE NO.:  23NWCV00762
HEARING:   11/8/23 @ 10:30 AM
#9
 
      I.         
Defendant’s Demurrer to
the entire First Amended Complaint is SUSTAINED. 
    II.         
Defendant’s Demurrer as to
Plaintiff Maria
Del Carmen Castillo’s Cause of Action is MOOT. 
  III.         
Defendant’s Motion to Strike is MOOT.
 
  IV.         
The court, on its own
motion, stays proceedings in this matter pending the outcome of the concurrent
workers’ compensation proceedings.  
 
    V.         
A status conference is
scheduled for May 8, 2024 at 9:30 a.m. in Dept. SE-C.
 
Moving Party to give NOTICE.
 
Defendant AVMGH
Six-Thunderbird Villa demurs to Plaintiffs’ entire First Amended Complaint
(FAC) and to Plaintiff Maria Del Carmen Castillo’s cause of action, and moves
to strike portions of the FAC.
Background
This
personal injury action was filed on March 9, 2023 by Plaintiffs Melba Castillo,
individually, and as successor-in-interest to Douglas Castillo; Jeanette Selena
Ortega Peralta, a minor, by and through her guardian ad litem; Yasmin Catalina
Ortega Peralta; Maria Del Carmen Castillo; Osmar Quintero; Maria Garcia; and Sostenes
Delcid (collectively Plaintiffs).  
Plaintiffs
allege that: “[o]n or about September 12, 2022, defendants Michael Gingrich, a
plumbing contractor and Michael Gingrich dba Coz Plumbing… hired Douglas
Castillo and coworkers, plaintiffs Sostenes Delcid, Osmar Quinteros, and Mario
Garcia to perform construction work at 10001 West Frontage Road, South Gate, CA
90280, which was at the request of defendants AVMGH Six-Thunderbird Villa
Limited…. [¶] [P]rior to September 12, 2022, Defendants AVMGH Six-Thunderbird
Villa Limited… knowingly hired an unlicensed contractor, defendants Michael
Gingrich and Michael Gingrich dba Coz Plumbing….” (FAC ¶¶ 13-14.) Plaintiffs
allege that AVMGH Six-Thunderbird Villa Limited knew or should have known that
they hired a contractor who did not carry worker’s compensation insurance. “On
or about September 14, 2022, the work site fatality occurred. Just prior to the
work site fatality, decedent Douglas Castillo and plaintiff Osmar Quinteros
were in the trench. Plaintiffs Mario Garcia and Sostenes Delcid were at ground
level (above Castillo and Quinteros). Because of the depth of the trench, when
dirt became loose or the dirt could not be hurled up over their shoulders and
out of the trench, Douglas Castillo and Osmar Quinteros would remove the dirt
by putting it in buckets, and with ropes, would hoist the dirt out that way….
[¶] Due to the way the dirt was being piled upon one side of the trench on top,
the weight of that dirt caused one of the walls to cave in, which brought on an
onslaught of dirt, and then a water pipe burst. This caused an immediate
mudslide. This trapped Douglas Castillo and Osmar Quinteros. They became
engulfed in rapidly rising mud. Sostenes Delcid and Mario Garcia jumped in to
rescue them. Quinteros was rescued…. Douglas Castillo was buried alive and
killed in the mudslide.” (FAC ¶¶17-18.) 
Plaintiffs
assert the following causes of action: (1) Negligence; (2)-(4) Premises
Liability; (5) Negligence Per Se; and (7) Intentional Infliction of Emotional
Distress by Plaintiffs Osmar Quinteros, Mario Garcia, and Sostenes Delcid; and
(6) Wrongful Death by Plaintiffs Melba Castillo, Jeanette Selena Ortega
Peralta, and Maria Del Carmen Castillo. Defendant AVMGH Six-Thunderbird Villa
Limited Partnership (Defendant) generally demurs to the entire FAC on the basis
that Plaintiffs’ claims are barred by the Worker’s Compensation Act; and demurs
to the sixth cause of action as to Plaintiff Maria Del Carmen Castillo.
The
Complaint was the subject of a Demurrer and Motion to Strike by Defendant which
this Court sustained in part and overruled in part.
Judicial
Notice
Defendant
AVMGH Six-Thunderbird Villa Limited Partnership’s Request for Judicial Notice
is GRANTED as to the existence of the documents, but not as to any hearsay
statements contained therein. (Cal. Ev. Code §452.)
Legal
Standard
The party against whom
a complaint has been filed may object to the pleading, by demurrer, on several
grounds, including the ground that the pleading does not state facts sufficient
to constitute a cause of action. (CCP § 430.10(e).) A party may demur to an
entire complaint, or to any causes of action stated therein. (CCP § 430.50(a).)
Motions
to strike are used to reach defects or objections to pleadings which are not
challengeable by demurrer (i.e., words, phrases, prayer for damages, etc.). (CCP
§§ 435, 436 & 437.) A motion to strike lies only where the pleading has
irrelevant, false or improper matter, or has not been drawn or filed in
conformity with laws. (C.C.P. § 436.) The grounds for moving to strike must
appear on the face of the pleading or by way of judicial notice. (C.C.P. §
437.)
Discussion

Generally, under the workers’ compensation
doctrine, when an injured employee is entitled to recover workers’ compensation
benefits, those benefits constitute the employee’s exclusive remedy against the
employer and his or her employees. (Cal. Lab. Code §§3600, 3601, 3602.) The
workers’ compensation exclusivity provisions generally preclude a civil action
against an employer for physical or emotional injury resulting from wrongful
conduct in the workplace. (Livitsanos v. Sup. Ct. (1992) 2 Cal.4th 744,
754.)
Defendant argues, “Per Labor Code § 2750.5, an
unlicensed contractor and its employees are presumed to be employees of the
hirer. Thus, Thunderbird in this case is legally deemed the employer of
Gingrich and all of the plaintiffs for purposes of this accident and injuries
stemming from it. This is a legal conclusion which is inescapable given the
facts as alleged in this case. (Indeed, this is why plaintiffs are concurrently
pursuing workers’ compensation benefits via Thunderbirds’ workers’ compensation
insurance.)” (Dem. 6:6-10.) Defendant argues that it is the statutory employer
of Gingrich and the workers he hired, which means that Plaintiffs can only
pursue claims under workers’ compensation.
Plaintiff argues that workers’ compensation is
not the exclusive remedy in this case because Plaintiff had not worked 52 hours
in the 90 days prior to the date of the injury. (Zaragoza v. Ibarra
(2009) 174 Cal.App.4th 1012.) However, this exception to the workers’
compensation exclusivity rule is only applicable to homeowners and, therefore,
does not apply to Defendant. (CCP §§ 3351(d) and 3352(a)(8).
Additionally, Plaintiff argues that workers’
compensation is not the exclusive remedy because the fact that Defendant has
workers’ compensation insurance is outside the allegations of the FAC and the
judicially noticed facts. Defendant argues that it has submitted Plaintiffs’
applications for workers’ compensation related to the same injuries. “But if
the complaint ‘affirmatively alleges facts indicating coverage by the [Workers’
Compensation Act],’ then unless it states additional facts which negate application
of the exclusive remedy provision, ‘no civil action will lie and the complaint
is subject to a general demurrer.’” (Iverson v. Atlas Pacific Engineering
(1983) 143 Cal.App.3d 219, 224; Roberts v. Pup ‘N’ Taco Driveup (1984)
160 Cal.App.3d 278, 284.) In Roberts, the appellate court affirmed the
trial court’s ruling, sustaining the defendant’s demurrer, because the
plaintiff failed to include additional facts to allege an exception to the
workers’ compensation exclusivity rule. The appellate court ruled that the
plaintiff’s complaint alleged facts indicating coverage by workers’
compensation laws, and thus, the complaint must allege an exception to the
workers’ compensation exclusivity rule. (Ibid.) Here, Plaintiffs allege
injuries within the course of employment, but they fail to allege an applicable
exception to the workers’ compensation exclusivity rule. Thus, Defendant’s
Demurrer to the entire First Amended Complaint.
Defendant argues that Plaintiff should not be
granted leave to amend because they have filed a workers’ compensation
application which provides that Defendant has insurance through Preferred
Employers San Diego. However, as far as the court is aware, the workers’
compensation proceedings are still ongoing. 
For this reason, the court on its own motion will stay the proceedings
in this case pending the outcome of the concurrent workers’ compensation proceedings.  (CRC Rule 3.515.)  
Defendant’s alternative ground for demurrer and
Motion to Strike are moot.
 
Accordingly, Defendant’s
Demurrer to the entire First Amended Complaint is SUSTAINED.  Defendant’s Demurrer to the Plaintiff Maria Del Carmen
Castillo’s Cause of Action is MOOT. Defendant’s Motion to Strike is MOOT.  Proceedings in this case are stayed pending
the outcome of the concurrent workers’ compensation proceedings.  