 Case Number:  22STCV26728    Hearing Date:   November 8, 2023    Dept:  C Bautista v. Toyota, et al.
CASE NO.:  22STCV26728
HEARING:   11/8/23 @ 9:30 AM
#5
 
Plaintiff’s Motion for Leave to Amend is
GRANTED in part and DENIED in part.
Moving Party to give NOTICE.
 
Plaintiff Andrew Bautista moves for leave to
amend his Complaint to add two new defendants and causes of action.
Background
Plaintiff
alleges that Defendants Toyota Motor Sales, USA, Inc., Toyota Motor
Corporation, Toyonda, Inc., and Zippy Lube & Tune, Inc. are strictly liable
for manufacturing and design defect, negligence, and negligent repair of his
2007 Toyota Camry. Plaintiff claims that the defects caused the vehicle to
catch fire on February 28, 2022.
Legal
Standard
CRC, rule 3.1324(a) provides:
(a) Contents of motion
A motion to amend a
pleading before trial must:
(1) Include a copy of
the proposed amendment or amended pleading, which must be serially numbered to
differentiate it from previous pleadings or amendments;
(2) State what
allegations in the previous pleading are proposed to be deleted, if any, and
where, by page, paragraph, and line number, the deleted allegations are
located; and
(3) State what
allegations are proposed to be added to the previous pleading, if any, and
where, by page, paragraph, and line number, the additional allegations are
located.
(b) Supporting
declaration
A separate declaration
must accompany the motion and must specify:
(1) The effect of the
amendment;
(2) Why the amendment
is necessary and proper;
(3) When the facts
giving rise to the amended allegations were discovered; and
(4) The reasons why the
request for amendment was not made earlier.
“While
a motion to permit an amendment to a pleading to be filed is one addressed to
the discretion of the court, the exercise of this discretion must be sound and
reasonable and not arbitrary or capricious. (Citation.) And it is a rare case
in which ‘a court will be justified in refusing a party leave to amend his
pleadings so that he may properly present his case.’ (Citation.) If the motion
to amend is timely made and the granting of the motion will not prejudice the
opposing party, it is error to refuse permission to amend and where the refusal
also results in a party being deprived of the right to assert a meritorious
cause of action or a meritorious defense, it is not only error but an abuse of
discretion.” Morgan v. Superior Court of Cal. In and For Los Angeles County
(1959) 172 Cal.App.2d 527, 530.) 
Discussion

Here, Plaintiff seeks to add Toyota Motor
Manufacturing, Kentucky (Toyota Kentucky) and Amazon.com as Defendants and
causes of action for Failure to Recall against all Toyota Defendants and Strict
Liability – Manufacturing and Design Defects, Negligence, and Failure to Recall
against Amazon.com. Amazon.com has not opposed the Motion.
The Toyota Defendants argue that Plaintiff has
not met his burden of providing evidence to support adding Toyota Kentucky
because the evidence provided by Ms. Baidas’ declaration is insufficient. Ms.
Baidas’ declaration provides that she searched Plaintiff’s vehicle through the
National Traffic Safety Administration which indicated that the vehicle was
manufactured at Toyota Kentucky. (Baidas Decl., ¶ 7.) The Court finds that this
factual showing is sufficient to satisfy the minimal requirements to allow leave
to amend a complaint. Therefore, Plaintiff’s request for leave to amend to add
Toyota Kentucky as a party is granted. 
Additionally, the Toyota Defendants argue that
Plaintiff has not met his burden of providing evidence to support adding a
Failure to Recall cause of action against the Toyota Defendants. Plaintiff’s
counsel states that she added the Failure to Recall cause of action against the
Toyota Defendants because she “was pleading it against Amazon.com, [she] felt
it necessary for the consistency of the FAC to also plead it against all Toyota
Defendants.” However, this is not a factual showing. Thus, Plaintiff’s request
for leave to amend to add a Failure to Recall cause of action against the
Toyota Defendants is denied.
 
Accordingly, Plaintiff’s
Motion for Leave to Amend is GRANTED in part with respect to adding Toyota Motor
Manufacturing, Kentucky and Amazon.com as Defendants and causes of action for
Strict Liability – Manufacturing and Design Defects, Negligence, and Failure to
Recall against Amazon.com and is DENIED in part as to Plaintiff’s request to
add a cause of action for Failure to Recall against all Toyota Defendants.
Plaintiff is ordered to file an the Amended Complaint attached to this Motion
within 20 days of this Order without the Fourth Cause of Action for Failure to
Recall as to the Toyota Defendants. 
 
 