 Case Number:  22NWCV01374    Hearing Date:   November 8, 2023    Dept:  C Mendoza v. tuttle-click Ford, et al.
CASE NO.:  22NWCV01374
HEARING:   11/8/23 @ 9:30 AM
#3
 
Plaintiff’s Motion for Leave to Amend his
Complaint is GRANTED.
Moving Party to give NOTICE.
 
Plaintiff Ramiro Mendoza (Plaintiff) moves for leave
to amend his Complaint to add a cause of action for fraud and a claim for
punitive damages.
No opposition filed as of November 7,
2023.  
 
Background
Plaintiff
filed a Complaint against Defendant Tuttle-Click Ford, Inc. alleging Negligent
Repair and against Ford Motor Company for violations of the Song-Beverly Act.
Legal
Standard
CRC, rule 3.1324(a) provides:
(a) Contents of motion
A motion to amend a
pleading before trial must:
(1) Include a copy of
the proposed amendment or amended pleading, which must be serially numbered to
differentiate it from previous pleadings or amendments;
(2) State what
allegations in the previous pleading are proposed to be deleted, if any, and
where, by page, paragraph, and line number, the deleted allegations are
located; and
(3) State what
allegations are proposed to be added to the previous pleading, if any, and
where, by page, paragraph, and line number, the additional allegations are
located.
(b) Supporting
declaration
A separate declaration
must accompany the motion and must specify:
(1) The effect of the
amendment;
(2) Why the amendment
is necessary and proper;
(3) When the facts
giving rise to the amended allegations were discovered; and
(4) The reasons why the
request for amendment was not made earlier.
“While
a motion to permit an amendment to a pleading to be filed is one addressed to
the discretion of the court, the exercise of this discretion must be sound and
reasonable and not arbitrary or capricious. (Citation.) And it is a rare case
in which ‘a court will be justified in refusing a party leave to amend his
pleadings so that he may properly present his case.’ (Citation.) If the motion
to amend is timely made and the granting of the motion will not prejudice the
opposing party, it is error to refuse permission to amend and where the refusal
also results in a party being deprived of the right to assert a meritorious
cause of action or a meritorious defense, it is not only error but an abuse of
discretion.” Morgan v. Superior Court of Cal. In and For Los Angeles County
(1959) 172 Cal.App.2d 527, 530.) 
Discussion

Here, Plaintiff seeks to add a cause of action
for fraud and a claim for punitive damages against Ford. Plaintiff includes
proposed allegations that Ford knew that the 10R80 transmission was defective
and concealed that from Plaintiff.
Plaintiff has fulfilled the procedural
requirements of CRC, Rule 3.1324. Plaintiff’s counsel’s declaration addresses
the effects of the amendments (Lopez Decl. ¶ 4), why the amendment is necessary
and proper (Lopez Decl., ¶ 5), when the facts giving rise to the amended
allegations were discovered (Lopez Decl., ¶ 6), and the reasons the amendments
were not made earlier (Lopez Decl., ¶ 6).
 
Accordingly, Plaintiff’s
Motion for Leave to Amend his Complaint is GRANTED. Plaintiff is ordered to
file the Amended Complaint as attached to this Motion within 20 days of this
Order.
 
 