  Case Number:  21STCV32906    Hearing Date:   October 16, 2024    Dept:  T HELGAGER v DOHENY
21STCV32906
[TENTATIVE] ORDER:  Plaintiff Susan Helgager’s Motion for Leave
to File a Second Amended Complaint is GRANTED. 
The court deems the "Motion to Strike" as evidentiary objections
to the Yepp Declaration and rules on it as such. The Second Amended Complaint
shall be filed within 10 days.
Introduction 
Plaintiff Susan Helgager
(Plaintiff) moved for leave to file the Proposed Second Amended Complaint
(PSAC).  Plaintiff seeks to add a request
for punitive damages based upon newly discovered facts.  Defendant Sloan Valve Company opposed the
motion.  
Discussion 
A party requesting leave to amend
must include a copy of the proposed amended pleading and attach a declaration
by counsel to show: (1) the effect of the amendment (Michael Yepp (Yepp) Decl.
par. 13); (2) why the amendment is necessary and proper (Yepp Decl. par. 15);
(3) when the facts giving rise to the amended allegations were discovered (Yepp
Decl. par. 10); and (4) why the request was not made earlier (Yepp Decl. par.
). The motion itself must state what allegations in the previous pleading are
proposed to be deleted and what allegations are proposed to be added to the
previous pleading, and where, by page, paragraph, and line number, the deleted
or additional allegations are located (Yepp Decl. par. 14).  (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1324.)  Counsel’s declaration complied with the
procedural requirements.
Plaintiff provided that the newly
discovered facts presented evidence of a past history of similar incidents
involving the same product that was defective and injured Plaintiff.  On these new facts, Plaintiff seeks to add
punitive damages.  Defendant disputed the
validity of the claim for punitive damages and argued that punitive damages are
not merited based upon additional facts not presented in the motion.  However, determining the validity of or the
merits of the new claim are not proper issues for a motion for leave to
amend.  Such issues are better reserved
for motions after the PSAC is filed.
A court can deny leave to amend
after long, inexcusable delay in seeking amendment, where there is cognizable
prejudice, such as discovery needed, trial delay, critical evidence lost, or
added preparation expense.  (Melican v.
Regents of Univ. of Cal. (2007) 151 Cal.App.4th 168, 175-77; Solit v. Tokai
Bank (1999) 68 Cal.App.4th 1435, 1448.) 
Plaintiff provided that the new facts were discovered at the August 27,
2024 deposition of Defendant’s person most qualified (PMQ).  The instant motion was filed on September 12,
2024.  Only two weeks passed between
discovery of the new facts and Plaintiff’s motion being filed.  There is no delay, let alone inexcusable
delay.  Defendant argued that Plaintiff’s
delayed in discovering the new facts. 
However, this is not the standard upon which inexcusable delay is
measured.  The delay that is reviewed is
the delay between discovery of the new facts and filing the motion.  Defendant argued that Plaintiff delayed in
adding Defendant to the action and made several prior requests to continue the
trial.  However, the delay of adding
Defendant to the action, if any exists, and prior requests to continue trial
are not factors in determining lack of diligence.  Defendant failed to present any facts to show
Plaintiff’s inexcusable delay in seeking amendment.  
Defendant further argued
prejudice due to additional costs in having to prepare against the new
theory.  However Defendant failed to
present any evidence to show what additional costs would be incurred. Defendant
counsel's declaration is devoid of any facts showing the additional costs that
would be charged.  
Because Defendant failed to show
inexcusable delay in seeking amendment and failed to submit admissible evidence
as to additional costs, Defendant failed to meet their burden in opposing the
motion.
The motion for leave to amend is
GRANTED.
The Court noted that Defendant
concurrently filed a motion to strike the declaration of  Yepp. 
The motion was filed and served with the opposition on October 3, 2024
and is purportedly set to be heard this same hearing date.  However, service of the motion was not made
in compliance with the 16 court day notice period.  (Code Civ. Proc., sec. 1005.)  Because the motion was not timely
filed/served, Defendant deprived Plaintiff of proper notice and opportunity to
be heard on the matter.  Further, without
reserving a hearing date for the motion, Defendant failed to properly schedule
the matter on the Court’s calendar.  For
these defects, Defendant’s motion to strike is not considered and no ruling is
issued on it as a motion.  However, it
was clearly intended to serve as evidentiary objections and the court has ruled
on it as such.  Why Defendant did not
file it as a document called Evidentiary Objections to the Declaration of Yepp,
is beyond the understanding of the court. 

The Declaration of Yepp includes
numerous paragraphs of which he cannot have personal knowledge.  Why Mr. Yepp stated under oath that he has
personal knowledge of these facts (paragraphs 5,6,11) is, again, beyond the
understanding of the court.  Also, if
he is to quote from a deposition, he should attach the relevant testimony, not
just restate the testimony in his own words.
IT IS SO ORDERED, CLERK TO GIVE NOTICE.