 Case Number:  22VECV00311    Hearing Date:   October 16, 2024    Dept:  T BIGONAH V PATEL 22VECV00311 [TENTATIVE] ORDER:  Defendant Jaykrishna Patel’s Demurrer to the  First Amended Complaint is SUSTAINED WITH 20 DAYS LEAVE TO AMEND. Defendant Jaykrishna Patel’s  Motion to Strike Portions of the First Amended Complaint is GRANTED WITH 20  DAYS LEAVE TO AMEND. Introduction Defendant Jaykrishna Patel, as  successor in interest for deceased Defendant Jaykrishnabhai Patal, (Defendant)  demurred to Plaintiff Shahrooz Bigonah’s (Plaintiff) First Amended Complaint  (FAC).  The demurrer placed into issue  the first cause of action (COA) for negligence or premise liability; the second  COA for electrical liability; and potential claims for collection of rent on a  substandard dwelling, tortious breach of warranty of habitability, and breach  of contract, if such potential claims are being alleged.  Defendant further moved to strike factual  allegations that are irrelevant, false, or improper, and Plaintiff’s request  for attorneys’ fees.   An opposition was due October 3,  2024 but none was filed. Discussion  Defendant argued that the first  COA for negligence failed to plead facts as to what acts, omissions, injuries,  and damages are being complained about; who is party-plaintiff; and the relief  being sought.  Defendant submits that a  landlord-tenant relationship is at issue but the property location is not  alleged.  As to the second COA for  “electrical liability,” defendant argued that the COA appears to be duplicative  of the first COA for negligence.   Defendant further argued that the entire pleading is uncertain,  ambiguous, vague, and unintelligible.   The Court finds the arguments  persuasive because Plaintiff failed to identify the address/location of the  property at issue but alleged a landlord-tenant relationship.  With the general allegation of a  landlord-tenant relationship, there is sufficient pleading of facts to support  a duty owed.  However, identifying the  location of the property would provide additional facts to give notice to  Defendant.  Plaintiff alleged that his  father also resides at the property, which may present an issue of misjoinder.  Plaintiff alleged several defects existing at  the property (i.e., bed bug infestation; defective water heater; defective  fireplace/gas line; broken glass on front door and entry way; insect and vermin  infestation; electrical defects regarding a cable leading away from the  property and/or cyber-crime/data theft; mail theft; and landscaping issues)  which would present fact leading as to landlord’s breach.  However, the pleading element as to causation  and damages is not asserted in the FAC making the pleading demurrable. Defendant argued against  potential claims or COAs that were not expressly alleged.  However, it is not up to this Court to  determine the COAs Plaintiff is alleging.   A judge in a civil case is not “'obligated to seek out theories [a  party] might have advanced, or to articulate for him that which … [a party] has  left unspoken.'”  (Mesecher v. County of  San Diego (1992) 9 Cal.App.4th 1677, 1686.)   The Court makes no ruling on claims Defendant thinks Plaintiff may be  making.   The demurrer is SUSTAINED. Defendant’s motion to strike  argued that certain factual allegations are irrelevant, improper, or immaterial  and that attorneys’ fees are improper due to a lack of any facts showing a  contractual or statutory basis for fees.   The Court finds the arguments persuasive.   The motion to strike is GRANTED. As to both the demurrer and  motion to strike, the Court notes that this is the first time the Court has  reviewed the operative pleading, despite the operative pleading being the  FAC.  The Court exercises its discretion  to allow amendment based upon its liberal policy of allowing amendment at least  once, despite Plaintiff’s failure to request leave to amend.   Leave to amend is GRANTED as to  both the demurrer and motion to strike.   IT IS SO ORDERED, CLERK TO GIVE  NOTICE.