 Case Number:  23STCV22497    Hearing Date:   March 19, 2024    Dept:  78 Superior Court of California County of Los Angeles Department 78  1525 COLORADO, LLC,Plaintiff, vs. MANIBEN COURP., et al.Defendants.  Case No.:  23STCV22497 Hearing Date:  March 19, 2024    [TENTATIVE] RULING RE:  MOTION FOR PRELIMINARY INJUNCTION FILED BY PLAINTIFF 1525 COLORADO, LLC.Plaintiff’s motion for a preliminary injunction is GRANTED.The ex parte application is denied. The Court did not rely on the Harbison Declaration in reaching its decision. The Court will enter the order received on 11/3/2023.The amount of the bond to be posted will be discussed at the hearing.Moving party to give notice.FACTUAL BACKGROUNDThis is an action to quiet title, for an enforcement of easement, nuisance, and declaratory relief. Plaintiff alleges that it is the owner of a property located at 1525 Colorado Boulevard, Los Angeles, CA 90041. An easement exists on Defendants’ properties in favor of Plaintiff for ingress and egress. The only means vehicles can enter the rear area of Plaintiff’s development project is by using the easement. In August 2021, Defendants blocked off Plaintiff’s access to the easement and refused to allow Plaintiff to use it.PROCEDURAL HISTORY On September 18, 2023, Plaintiff filed its complaint against Defendants Maniben Corp., Girish R. Patel, Lila Patel, 1539 Colorado Co., LLC, Beatrice Krischner individually and as trustee of the David Kirshner and Beatrice Kirshner 1981 trust, and Jacqueline Ackerman.On November 3, 2023, Plaintiff filed this motion for preliminary injunction.On November 21, 2023, Plaintiff dismissed Lila Patel from this action.On December 12, Defendants 1539 Colorado Co., LLC and Jacqueline Ackerman Answered.On December 15, 2023, Plaintiff dismissed Beatrice Kirschner from this action.On March 6, 2024, Defendants Ackerman and 1539 Colorado Co., LLC (Ackerman Defendants) filed an opposition to the motion for a preliminary injunction.On March 6, 2024, Defendants Maniben Corp. and Girish Patel (Patel Defendants) filed an opposition to the motion for a preliminary injunction.On March 12, 2024, Plaintiff replied.DISCUSSIONPlaintiffs move for a preliminary injunction enjoining Defendants from the following;1. Impeding and/or denying ingress and egress over and across the easement area described in Plaintiff’s Verified Complaint, including but not limited to, removing any and all fences, posts, gates, chains, locks, and any and all other barriers placed within the easement area which are the subject of this action and/or blocking access to said easement area and/or Plaintiff’s property, and ceasing the construction, installation or placement of further barriers pending entry of judgment in this action.2. Impeding and/or interfering with free access by Plaintiff, its tenants, contractors, agents, guests and invitees, including vehicles and equipment, by, through, over and across the easement area described in Plaintiff’s Verified Complaint on file herein, and the maintenance and improvement thereof for access purposes. I. Legal StandardThe purpose of a preliminary injunction is to preserve the status quo pending final resolution upon a trial. (See Scaringe v. J.C.C. Enterprises, Inc. (1988) 205 Cal.App.3d 1536.) The status quo has been defined to mean the last actual peaceable, uncontested status which preceded the pending controversy. (14859 Moorpark Homeowner’s Assn. v. VRT Corp. (1998) 63 Cal.App.4th 1396. 1402.) Preliminary injunctive relief requires the use of competent evidence to create a sufficient factual showing on the grounds for relief. (See, e.g., ReadyLink Healthcare v. Cotton (2005) 126 Cal.App.4th 1006, 1016; Ancora-Citronelle Corp. v. Green (1974) 41 Cal.App.3d 146, 150.) Injunctive relief may be granted based on a verified complaint only if it contains sufficient evidentiary, not ultimate, facts. (See Code Civ. Proc., section 527(a).) For this reason, a pleading alone rarely suffices. (Weil & Brown, California Procedure Before Trial, 9:579, 9(ll)-21 (The Rutter Group 2007).) The burden of proof is on the plaintiff as moving party. (O’Connell v. Superior Court (2006) 141 Cal.App.4th 1452, 1481.) A plaintiff seeking injunctive relief must show the absence of an adequate damages remedy at law. (Code Civ. Proc., section 526(4); Thayer Plymouth Center, Inc. v. Chrysler Motors (1967) 255 Cal.App.2d 300, 307.)    The trial court considers two factors in determining whether to issue a preliminary injunction: (1) the likelihood the plaintiff will prevail on the merits of its case at trial, and (2) the interim harm the plaintiff is likely to sustain if the injunction is denied as compared to the harm the defendant is likely to suffer if the court grants a preliminary injunction. (Code Civ. Proc. § 526(a); Husain v. McDonald’s Corp. (2012) 205 Cal.App.4th 860, 866-67.) The balancing of harm between the parties “involves consideration of such things as the inadequacy of other remedies, the degree of irreparable harm, and the necessity of preserving the status quo.” (Husain, supra, 205 Cal.App.4th at 867.) Thus, a preliminary injunction may not issue without some showing of potential entitlement to such relief. (Doe v. Wilson (1997) 57 Cal.App.4th 296, 304.) The decision to grant a preliminary injunction generally lies within the sound discretion of the trial court and will not be disturbed on appeal absent an abuse of discretion. (Thornton v. Carlson (1992) 4 Cal.App.4th 1249, 1255.) A preliminary injunction ordinarily cannot take effect unless and until the plaintiff provides an undertaking for damages which the enjoined defendant may sustain by reason of the injunction if the court finally decides that the plaintiff was not entitled to the injunction. (See Code Civ. Proc., section 529(a); Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1150(f); City of South San Francisco v. Cypress Lawn Cemetery Assn. (1992) 11 Cal.App.4th 916, 920.) II. Evidentiary ObjectionsThe Ackerman Defendants object to Plaintiff’s evidence in support of the motion for a preliminary injunction. The following objections are SUSTAINED: 4, 5, 6 (as to the last sentenced objected to).The following objections are OVERRULED: 1, 2, 3, 6 (in part) 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12.The Ackerman Defendants also object to the declaration of Kenyon Harbison.The following objections are SUSTAINED: 1-4.The Patel Defendants also object to Plaintiff’s evidence in support of the motion for a preliminary injunction.The Patel Defendants first object to the declaration of Mark Luczak. The following objections are OVERRULED: 1-12.The Patel Defendants object to the declaration of Jason Glasgow. The following objections are OVERRULED: 1-7, 9-12, 14 (in part), 15, 16-18, 20-22. The following objections are SUSTAINED: 8, 13, 14 (as to last sentence), 19.Plaintiff objects to the declaration of Jacqueline Ackerman. The objection is OVERRULED.Plaintiff objects to the declaration of Patel. Objections Nos. 2,3, and 4 are SUSTAINED. The rest are OVERRULED.III. AnalysisPlaintiff moves for a preliminary injunction enjoining Defendants from interfering with its use of an easement. Plaintiff argues that (1) Plaintiff is likely to prevail on its quiet title cause of action and (2) Plaintiff will be irreparably harmed if the motion is not granted.1. Likelihood of Prevailing“A quiet title action is a statutory action that seeks to declare the rights of the parties in realty. (Civ. Code, section 760.020;¿Western Aggregates, Inc. v. County of Yuba¿(2002) 101 Cal.App.4th 278, 305, 130 Cal.Rptr.2d 436.) “’”The object of the action is to finally settle and determine, as between the parties, all conflicting claims to the property in controversy, and to decree to each such interest or estate therein as he may be entitled to.”’” (Western Aggregates, supra, at p. 305, 130 Cal.Rptr.2d 436.)A quiet title action may be brought where the plaintiff alleges a less than a fee interest in the estate, such as an easement. (See Dieterich Internat. Truck Sales, Inc. v. J.S. & J. Services, Inc. (1992) 3 Cal.App.4th 1601, 1607 (quiet title to an easement for access); Twain Harte Homeowners Procedure v. Patterson (1987)193 Cal.App.3d 184, 188-189 (quiet title to easement).An appurtenant easement “is attached to the land of the owner, which is the dominant tenement, and burdens the land of another, the servient tenement.” (Cushman v. Davis (1978) 80 Cal.App.3d 731, 735.) (See Moylan v. Dykes (1986) 181 Cal.App.3d 561, 568.) “The conveyance of the dominant tenement transfers all appurtenant easements to the grantee, even though the easements are not specifically mentioned in the deed.” (Id; See also Civil Code §1104 (“A transfer of real property passes all easements attached thereto, and creates in favor thereof an easement to use other real property of the person whose estate is transferred in the same manner and to the same extent as such property was obviously and permanently used by the person whose estate is transferred, for the benefit thereof, at the time when the transfer was agreed upon or completed.”).) “Easements are presumed appurtenant unless there is clear evidence to the contrary.” (Cushman at 735.)Here, Plaintiff describes the easement in dispute as a perpetual non-exclusive easement for ingress and egress with or without vehicles and animals, over and across the northerly 10 feet of lots 1, 2 and 3 of tract no. 4147, in the city of Los Angeles, county of Los Angeles, state of California, as per map recorded in book 39, page 100, of maps, in the office of the county recorder of said County. (Glasgow Decl., ¶7.)Plaintiff provides the original Deed of Easement dated December 29, 1922, which states that the owners of lots 2 and 3 of Tract 4147 in the city of Eagle Rock granted an appurtenant easement to the owners of lots 1 and 4 of Tract 4147 allowing a perpetual right of way providing ingress and egress from the lots described and Dahlia Drive in common with the owners of lots 2 and 3. (Glasgow Decl., Exh. 3.) The expense of maintaining and repairing the easement was to be shared between the four lot owners. (Id.) A plot plan from the City of Los Angeles dated May 11, 2021 shows that there is an existing easement which would allow access to the rear part of Plaintiff’s development project. (Id., Exh. 5.) These documents show that an easement appurtenant exists allowing a right of way providing ingress and egress from Plaintiff’s property to Dahlia Drive. Therefore, Plaintiff has an interest in the easement. Defendants, the owner of the 1529 parcel and the 1539 parcel, installed a locked gate blocking access to the easement. (Glasgow Decl., ¶2.)  Plaintiff seeks to quiet title as of the date of its Complaint. (Compl., ¶33.)Because Plaintiff provides evidence supporting each element of a cause of action to quiet title, Plaintiff meets its burden that it is likely to prevail on this cause of action at trial.The Patel and Ackerman Defendants dispute whether the easement exists.Adverse PossessionDefendants argue that the easement was terminated via adverse possession.“It is well settled that an easement...may be extinguished by the owner of the servient tenement upon which the easement is a burden, by adverse possession thereof by the servient tenement owner for the required statutory period. Perhaps more accurately stated an easement may be extinguished by the user of the servient tenement in a manner adverse to the exercise of the easement, for the period required to give title to land by adverse possession.” (Glatts v. Henson (1948) 31 Ca1.2d 368, 370-371.)  “The non permissive erection and maintenance for the statutory period of permanent structures, such as buildings, which obstruct and prevent the use of the easement will operate to extinguish the easement.” (Id. at 371.) Girish Patel asserts that the easement was restricted by the Ackerman Defendants (1539 Colorado) for more than 30 years citing to the Ackerman declaration. (3/6/24 Patel Decl., ¶5.)Jacqueline Ackerman testifies that her family has owned the 1529 parcel for over 50 years and that a previous owner of the 1525 parcel, Plaintiff’s property, enclosed the easement alleyway over thirty years ago. (Ackerman Decl., ¶¶4,8.) Although Patel states Ackerman testified the owner of the 1539 parcel owner restricted access to the easement, Ackerman’s declaration states the prior owner of 1525, not 1539, enclosed the alleyway, including from Dahlia drive over thirty years ago. (Patel Decl., ¶5; Ackerman Decl., ¶8.) Defendants appear to argue that the easement was terminated via adverse possession because a previous owner of Plaintiff’s property enclosed the easement over thirty years ago. However, the adverse possession depends on the actions of the servient tenement owner, not the owner of the easement. Moreover, Defendants fail to explain how the easement was enclosed. No every act which appears to be adverse to the rights represented by the easement will suffice to extinguish it by adverse possession. (Tract Development Services, Inc. v. Kepler (1988) 199 Cal.App.3d 1374, 1386.) The only structure blocking any part of the easement is the gate on Dahlia Drive, which Patel alleges he has maintained since 2020. (Patel Decl., ¶5.) Patel merely testifies that he maintained the gate. The period of time Patel maintained the gate is insufficient to terminate the easement through adverse possession.Therefore, Defendants fail to show the easement was terminated through adverse possession.Nonuse or AbandonmentThe Patel Defendants argue that Plaintiff cannot revive an abandoned grant of easement.It is well-settled that an easement created by grant may not be lost by mere nonuse. (Glatts v. Henson (1948) 31 Cal.2d 368, 371.) An easement may be abandoned by a nonuser to prevent him from claiming an easement acquired by grant if the nonuse is of a character so decisive and conclusive as to indicate a clear intent to abandon the easement. (Flanagan v. San Marcos Silk Co. (1951) 106 Cal.App.2d 458, 462.) Nonuse alone is not enough to constitute abandonment because there must be a showing the easement owner intended to abandon the easement. (Id at p.463.) Here, Patel references Ackerman’s declaration, which states she has not used the alleyway for at least thirty years. (Ackerman Decl., ¶7.) However, evidence that Ackerman has not used the easement in over thirty years is not evidence that the easement owner has not used the easement. The Patel Defendants argue the easement was abandoned or terminated because Plaintiff has not paid for the cost of maintaining the easement. Failure to repair an easement is generally insufficient to show an easement has been abandoned. (Flanagan v. San Marcos Silk Co., 106 Cal.App.2d at p.464.) Abandonment may be predicated upon facts showing that the means of enjoyment of an easement have been in a state of disrepair for a long time. (Id.) Here, Patel does not testify that the easement is in a state of disrepair, that any other lot owner has been paying for maintenance, or that any easement owner refused to pay for the cost of maintenance. Therefore, the evidence is insufficient to show that Plaintiff or any other easement owner abandoned the easement.Changed UseThe Patel Defendants also argue that Plaintiff’s proposed use of the easement to allow contractors, suppliers, workers, vendors, and others to access the 1525 parcel is much broader than the original granted easement and would require Patel’s consent. “Where the burden of the servient estate is increased through changes in the dominant estate which increase the use and subject it to use of nondominant property a forfeiture will be justified if the unauthorized use may not be severed and prohibited.” (McCarty v. Walton (1963) 212 Cal.App.2d 39, 45.) Courts have ruled that although changes in use may be measured by the condition of the dominant tenement when the easement was formed, use of all land is subject to constant change because of natural forces and human activities and uses satisfying new needs are privileged if the condition requiring them is reasonably foreseeable. (Hill v. Allan (1968) 259 Cal.App.2d 470, 484.) Here, the original Deed of Easement states the easement is a “perpetual right-of-way…for purposes of ingress and egress, with or without vehicles and animals, over and across the Northerly ten (10) feet of and Lots One (1) and Four (4)” of the tract. (Glasgow Decl., Exh. 3.) The responsible managing officer for InHance Construction, Inc., the company providing construction for Plaintiff’s development contract, testifies that egress and ingress through the easement is necessary for crane and fork-lift access to the site and that the project cannot be completed without this access. (Luczak Decl., ¶5.) Additionally, residents of the development will require access through the easement once the project is complete. (Id., ¶3.) Plaintiff’s proposed use is to essentially to allow construction and other vehicles to access the 1525 parcel through the easement. Although the Ackerman Defendants argue in their opposition that the 1525 parcel was once a one-story retail and auto repair business, Defendants fail to provide any evidence of this fact or that the proposed use unreasonably exceeds the use contemplated in the original easement. Although Patel testifies that he would lose over $540,000 as a result of the increased use, this is speculative. Patel merely testifies that his motel patrons expect the motel to be peaceful and that the increased traffic would create noise and vibration. (Patel Decl., ¶3.) There is no evidence that the increased traffic would result in such a loss of business to the motel, particularly since construction activities do not occur in the evenings. Neither Defendant provides evidence that the development of a residential and commercial property at the 1525 property is not reasonably foreseeable. Because the original easement permits vehicles ingress and egress, the Court finds the proposed use does not place unreasonable additional burden on the servient tenements. Unclean HandsThe Patel Defendants also argue Plaintiff’s claims would be barred under the unclean hands doctrine.“The doctrine of unclean hands requires unconscionable, bad faith, or inequitable conduct by the plaintiff in connection with the matter in controversy.”  (Mendoza v. Ruesga (2008) 169 Cal.App.4th 270, 279.)  Whether the unclean hands doctrine applies depends on whether the unclean conduct directly relates to the transaction upon which the complaint is made.  (Peregrine Funding, Inc. v. Sheppard Mullin Richter & Hampton LLP (2005) 133 Cal.App.4th 658, 681.)  Courts apply a three-part test that depends upon (1) analogous case law, (2) the nature of the misconduct, and (3) the relationship of the misconduct to the claimed injuries.  (Blain v. Doctor’s Co.¿(1990) 222 Cal.App.3d 1048, 1060.) Here, Patel argues that Plaintiff’s hands are unclean because (1) a member of Plaintiff’s real estate development firm, Glasgow, misrepresented that the easement was exclusive and precluded Defendants’ use, (2) Plaintiff failed to disclose the easement was conditional, (3) claiming that approval to use the easement by the City of Los Angeles created new rights to use the easement. Patel’s first argument fails because it does not appear Glasgow made the misrepresentations in bad faith and because the misconduct is not related to the injuries in this case. Although Glasgow did represent that the other lot owners had no right to access the easements, there is no evidence that this statement was made in bad faith or resulted in injury to Defendants. Rather, Plaintiff alleges it was injured by the Patel Defendants’ refusal to unlock the gate leading to the easement on Dahlia Drive. Patel’s second argument fails because the easement is not conditional. Patel fails to explain how the easement is conditional. At most, the original easement requires that the lot owners share the expense of repairing and maintaining the easement. There is no evidence any lot owner has been making repairs or paying for maintenance. In any case, Patel fails to explain how Plaintiff failed to maintain the easement in bad faith.Patel’s final argument also fails because there is no evidence that Plaintiff misrepresented that the city’s approval to use the easement created new rights to use the easement. The city at most confirmed an easement existed. Plaintiff is now attempting to enforce its right to use the easement through this lawsuit.There being no evidence that Plaintiff engaged in bad faith or inequitable conduct in connection with the claimed injuries in this matter, Plaintiff’s claims are not barred by the doctrine of unclean hands. 2. Irreparable HarmPlaintiff argues that it will suffer irreparable harm if this motion is not granted because it will run out of money to complete its project by April 1, 2024, resulting in loss of the property through bankruptcy or foreclosure.The Chief Information Officer of Plaintiff’s real estate development firm overseeing Plaintiff’s development project testifies that as a result of Defendants’ refusal to allow Plaintiff’s use of the easement, the project has been delayed nearly two years, not counting delays caused by other issues. (Glasgow Decl., ¶¶45-46.) Even if the project is complete and sales begin by April 1, 2024, the project is operating at a loss of about $500,000. (Id.) Glasgow already refinanced the project on Plaintiff’s behalf and Plaintiff will not be able to obtain any additional refinancing or extensions. (Id., ¶48.) Based on his experience, Glasgow believes Plaintiff will lose the property to bankruptcy or foreclosure. (Id.) It is reasonable to infer that Plaintiff, a corporation established to develop the 1525 parcel, will be insolvent and unable to sell the constructed residential units if the project cannot be completed. Regardless of whether Plaintiff can sell the units with or without an occupancy permit, Plaintiff cannot complete construction without access through the easement. If construction is not completed, Plaintiff will likely lose the property through foreclosure or bankruptcy. Because Plaintiff’s injury involves the loss of real property, Plaintiff’s injury constitutes irreparable harm.Having met its burden of proving a likelihood of success on the merits and irreparable harm, Plaintiff’s motion for a preliminary injunction is granted. The Ackerman Defendants argue that Plaintiff impermissible delayed applying for a preliminary injunction. However, a judge may grant a preliminary injunction at any time before judgment. (Code Civ. Proc., section 527(a).) Here, the Ackerman Defendants cite O’Connell v. Superior Ct. (2006) 141 Cal.App.4th 1452, 1481-82 in support of this motion, arguing that the court should take delay into account when determining whether a plaintiff will suffer imminent irreparable injury. It appears that Plaintiff attempted to resolve this matter informally as late as summer 2023. (Glasgow Decl., ¶¶33-38.) Plaintiff filed this action in September 2023 and moved for a preliminary injunction in November 2023. Under the circumstances, the Court finds Plaintiff did not unreasonably delay filing this motion.Finally, Defendants argue that granting this motion would disrupt the status quo. However, Plaintiff provided sufficient evidence it will suffer greater harm if the motion is not granted. Therefore, the balance of harms weighs in favor of granting the motion.3. UndertakingDefendants argue the Court should impose a substantial undertaking. The Ackerman Defendants argue that the community will suffer disruption, noise, interference, and dust as a result of Plaintiff’s construction activities. However, the undertaking under Civ. Code, section 529(a) is meant to compensate Defendants for damages, not the community. The Ackerman Defendants provide no evidence of how construction of the easement for access purposes only and continuing construction of the 1525 tract will harm its car wash business.The Patel Defendants argue that allowing construction vehicles to use the easement will result in damages of $540,000 over three years. As discussed above, these damages are speculative.As it stands, the Ackerman Defendants have not used the easement in over thirty years. The Patel Defendants provide no evidence they have been using the easement. Allowing vehicles to use the easement to perform construction at the 1525 parcel is not likely to result in harm to Defendants because Plaintiff will not be disrupting the other lots on the tract. Therefore, the Court will require a lesser amount than Defendants’ requests. However, Plaintiff did not submit a proposed amount. The Court will discuss the issue of the undertaking at the hearing.DATED: March 19, 2024                                                                      __________________________ Hon. Jill FeeneyJudge of the Superior Court 