  Case Number:  22CHCV00801    Hearing Date:   March 4, 2024    Dept:  F43 Dept. F43
Date: 3-4-24
Case # 22CHCV00801, Margarita Maria Carranza vs. Atty
Tigran Martinian, et al.
Trial Date: Not Set
 
VEXATIOUS LITIGANT
 
MOVING PARTY: Defendants Martinian & Associates, Inc.
and Tigran Martinian
RESPONDING PARTY: Plaintiff Margarita Carranza, pro per
 
RELIEF REQUESTED
Motion to Designate Plaintiff Margarita Carranza a
Vexatious Litigant
 
RULING: Motion to Designate Plaintiff a Vexatious
Litigant is granted.
 
SUMMARY OF ACTION
Defendants Martinian & Associates, et al.,
(Defendants) represented Plaintiff Margarita Carranza (Plaintiff) in an action
against the County of Los Angeles, et al., for Negligence, Government Tort
Liability, and Premises Liability (19STCV05567). According to Plaintiff, the
case settled for $50,000, which led to a (contingency recovery) fee of $25,000.
Plaintiff expected a net payment of $25,000, but when presented with the final
check, additional “expenses” were also deducted, thereby leading to a net
payment of “20K.” The expenses included medical “liens,” which Plaintiff
contends were never “authorized.” 
 
On September 29, 2022, Plaintiff, in pro per, filed a
complaint for Breach of Contract and General Negligence. On January 12, 2023,
Plaintiff filed a first amended complaint for “Attorney Misconduct.” The first
amended complaint contains a conformed copy of a December 8, 2022, filed
“Request to Re-Open Complaint,” as well as a Breach of Contract, General
Negligence, and Fraud attachments. 
 
On March 15, 2023, the Court sustained the demurrer of
defendants to the first amended complaint for “Attorney Misconduct” with 30
days leave to amend. On May 12, 2023, Plaintiff, still in pro per, filed a
second amended complaint for Fraud, though the caption identifies additional
causes of action. On May 18, 2023, Plaintiff filed an “addendum” to the second
amended complaint again with only the fraud cause of action attachment and
additional exhibits, plus new allegations. 

 
On July 6, 2023, Plaintiff filed eight (8) requests for
dismissals for the following defendants: Robert Yaspan, Brian Kuhn, Fennia
Hakobyan, Sevana Vatazarian, Philip Craft, Ronald Whittaker, Jonathan Berger,
and D.A. Lucas.
 
On November 6, 2023, Defendants filed their motion to
declare Plaintiff a vexatious litigant. Plaintiff opposes Defendants’ motion.
 
ANALYSIS
Request for Judicial Notice: Granted.
The court takes judicial notice of the existence of the
court filings and court docket for purposes of establishing the existence of
the purported conduct, but cannot take judicial notice of the content of any
and all items for the truth of the matter asserted.
 
Defendants Martinian & Associates and Tigran Martinian move
to designate plaintiff Margarita Carranza, in pro per, a vexatious litigant, and require the posting of a bond
in order to continue with the litigation. Defendants summarize the basis for
the request based on continued e-mails to defendants even following a
stipulation to limit or stop said emails; “frivolous” motions to reopen a
dismissed action (19STCV05567); addition of Defendants as parties to a separate
lawsuit (22STCV17802); the prosecution of two other lawsuits (22STCV06945 &
22STCV13981), whereby Plaintiff seeks to relate the subject cases to the
instant action; and, a general statement of “abusive” tactics to “bully” and/or
“annoy” Defendants and counsel. 
 
Plaintiff in opposition requests the court
“dismiss” the motion. Plaintiff reiterates the basis of “fraud” in the
disbursement of the settlement proceeds. Plaintiff also addresses the
disposition of two cases apparently as an effort to establish the validity of
the complaints.
 
Defendants in reply first notes the
unserved, late filed opposition to the motion. Defendants then reiterate the
argument regarding the conflation of cases and systematic efforts to relitigate
the subject action. 
 
CCP § 391(b) defines a vexatious litigant as a person
engaged with the court and conducting any of the following activities: 
 
“(1) In the immediately preceding seven-year period has commenced,
prosecuted, or maintained in propria persona at least five litigations other
than in a small claims court that have been (i) finally determined adversely to
the person or (ii) unjustifiably permitted to remain pending at least two years
without having been brought to trial or hearing.
(2) After a litigation has been finally determined against
the person, repeatedly relitigates or attempts to relitigate, in propria
persona, either (i) the validity of the determination against the same
defendant or defendants as to whom the litigation was finally determined or
(ii) the cause of action, claim, controversy, or any of the issues of fact or
law, determined or concluded by the final determination against the same
defendant or defendants as to whom the litigation was finally determined.
(3) In any litigation while acting in propria persona,
repeatedly filed unmeritorious motions, pleads, or other papers, conducts
unnecessary discovery, or engages in other tactics that are frivolous or solely
intended to cause unnecessary delay.
(4) Has previously been declared to be a vexatious litigant
by any state or federal court of record in any action or proceeding based upon
the same or substantially similar facts, transaction, or occurrence.” (CCP §
391(b).)
 
Defendants represent the filing of five actions: Carranza
v. City of Los Angeles (19STCV05567), Carranza v. El Super
(22STCV17802), Carranza v. Rinaldi Convalescent (22STCV06945), Carranza,
et al. v. California Department of Health and Human Services (22STCV13981);
and Carranza v. Martinian, et al. (22CHCV00801). Carranza v. City of Los
Angeles was the underlying case in the subject action and is now dismissed.
Carranza v. El Super was dismissed by Department 27 in the Spring Street
Courthouse on November 8, 2023. Carranza v. Rinaldi Convalescent currently
remains pending before Department F47 in the Chatsworth Courthouse. Carranza v.
California Department of Health and Human services dismissed with prejudice on
December 1, 2023, following a motion to dismiss. 
 
The dismissed El Super case was an attempt to sue Martinian
and Suzanna Abrahamian, the mediator from the original case against the City of
Los Angeles. Abrahamian and Martinian have filed a pending motion in the
current case to stop Plaintiff’s harassment. Plaintiff’s harassment included
repeated emails to Martinian regarding the judgment from the City of Los
Angeles (Campo Decl., Ex. A); comments on Martinian’s Instagram page accusing
him of embezzling her settlement money (Martinian Decl., Ex. 1); and comments
on Abrahamian’s Facebook page that also accuse Martinian of embezzling funds,
as well as messages to Abrahamian through Facebook Messenger (Abrahamian Decl.,
Ex. 1). 
 
Further evidence of Plaintiff’s harassing conduct includes
the motion for summary judgment that she filed in the City of Los Angeles case
in March 2023. That motion was denied because that case had already been
dismissed. 
 
Finally, on December 4, 2023, the Court issued a stay of
further action by Plaintiff pending the outcome of the hearing on this
vexatious litigant motion, but on February 7, 2024, she filed both a petition
for writ of attachment and a petition to confirm an arbitrated attorney’s fee
award even though there has been no arbitration in this case. On February 22,
2024, the Court took the hearing on the writ of possession off calendar because
of the stay, pending the outcome of the hearing on this motion.
 
While Plaintiff filed the requisite minimum of five cases in
the last seven years, due to the remaining pending case, the Court cannot
render the actions as automatically qualifying for vexatious litigant
designation under CCP § 391(b)(1).
 
However, CCP § 391(b)(2) may apply. A self-represented
individual may be declared vexatious if: (1) he/she relitigates or attempts to
relitigate, in propria persona either (i) the validity of an earlier final
determination against the same defendant or (ii) any of the claims or issues
reasonably subsumed within the earlier actions. (CCP § 391(b)(2); see also Holcomb
v. United States Bank Nat’l Ass’n (2005) 129 Cal.App.4th 1494, 1504.) The
act of repeating identical rejected arguments, even in the same proceeding, is
vexatious. (First W Dev. 5 Corp. v. Superior Court (1989) 212 Cal.App.3d
860, 870; Camerado Ins. Agency, Inc. v. Superior 6 Court (1993) 12
Cal.App.4th 838.)
 
To this end, what qualifies as “repeated” and “unmeritorious”
tactics falls within the trial court’s discretion. (Morton v. Wagner
(2007) 156 Cal.App.4th 963, 971-972 (dozens of motions in a single action); Galin
v. Allenby (2010) 190 Cal.App.4th 616, 632 (multiple requests for the same relief
or for reconsideration of prior rulings).) To this end, a plaintiff’s actions
are unmeritorious where the repeated motions are devoid of merit, frivolous,
constitute a “flagrant abuse of the system,” have “no reasonable probability of
success,” lack “reasonable or probable cause or excuse” and are clearly meant
to “abuse the processes of the courts and to harass the adverse party than
other litigants.” (Morton, supra, at 972; Bravo, supra,
at 226.)
 
In the event a plaintiff’s conduct satisfies the above test,
the court may require them to furnish security and/or dismiss the litigation. (CCP
§§ 391, 391.1). Determining whether a person is a vexatious litigant is
squarely within the court’s discretion. (Bravo v. Ismaj (2002) 99
Cal.App.4th 211, 219.)
 
Here, Plaintiff’s conduct clearly falls within the bounds
contemplated by CCP § 391(b)(2). She has attempted to relitigate the same case
on multiple occasions. Beyond the previously discussed harassing emails and
comments, she has also done other things to abuse the process and harass the
other litigants, including submitting complaints to the State Bar as to the
attorneys involved in each of the lawsuits without a rational basis and filing reports
with LAPD regarding her settlement funds that she alleges she is due. (Motion
at p. 12.) Based on this, Plaintiff meets the definition of a vexatious litigant.
 
The Court next considers the viability of the subject case
presented for purposes of determining the necessity of posting security in
order to proceed. “The motion for an order requiring plaintiff to furnish
security shall be based upon the ground, and supported by a showing, that the
plaintiffs is a vexatious litigation and that there is not a reasonable
probability that he or she will prevail in the litigation.” (CCP §§ 391.1(a),
391.3(a).)
 
Based on the previous demurrers to Plaintiff’s pleadings in
this case and the earlier cases, there is not a reasonable probability that
Plaintiff will prevail against Defendants. Therefore, the Court orders the posting
of a security.
 
The statute requires the plaintiff to furnish
security “for the benefit of the moving defendant, security in such amount and
within such time as the court shall fix.” (CCP § 391.3(a).) “The vexatious
litigant statutes were enacted to require a person found a vexatious litigant
to put up security for the reasonable expenses of a defendant who becomes the
target of one of these obsessive and persistent litigants whose conduct can
cause serious financial results to the unfortunate object of his attack. The
purpose of the statutory scheme is to deal with the problem created by the
persistent and obsessive litigant who has constantly pending a number of
groundless actions, often against the judges and other court officers who
decide or were concerned in the decision of previous actions adversely to him.”
(Holcomb v. U.S. Bank Nat. Assn. (2005) 129 Cal.App.4th 1494, 1504.) Given the complaint is
against Defendants, damages come from a potentially successful claim and
attorney fees defending the action. (Muller
v. Tanner (1969) 2 Cal.App.3d 445, 452 [“the
amount of the security is defined as the moving party’s ‘reasonable expenses,
including attorney’s fees and not limited to taxable costs, incurred in, or in
connection with’ the litigation”].) 
 
The Court cannot determine the reasonable
expenses for attorney fees and costs at this point. The Court will therefore set
a supplemental briefing schedule to determine the amount of security.
Defendants are ordered to submit a supplemental brief in support of the security
amount. Plaintiff’s failure to comply with the security order could lead to
dismissal of the action. (CCP § 391.4.) 
 
“In addition to any other relief provided in this title, the
court may, on its own motion or the motion of any party, enter a prefiling
order which prohibits a vexatious litigant from filing any new litigation in
the courts of this state in propria persona without first obtaining leave of
the presiding justice or presiding judge of the court where the litigation is
proposed to be filed. Disobedience of the order by a vexatious litigant may be
punished as a contempt of court.” (CCP § 391.7(a).) The presiding judge “shall
permit the filing of that litigation only if it appears that the litigation has
merit and has not been filed for purposes of harassment or delay” and “may
condition the filing of the litigation upon the furnishing of security for the
benefit of the defendants. (CCP § 391.7(b).)
 
The Court enters a prefiling order prohibiting Carranza from
filing any new litigation in the courts of this state in propria persona
without first obtaining leave of the court. 
 
Defendants motion declare Plaintiff a vexatious litigant and
subject her to security and pre-filing requirements is granted.
 
Defendants to give notice.