  Case Number:  23GDCV02253    Hearing Date:   July 11, 2024    Dept:  E Hearing Date: 07/11/2024 – 8:30am
Case No. 23GDCV02253
Trial Date: UNSET
Case Name: BAYDZAR KEOSHEYAN v. KIRAKOSYAN MARKET INC., a California
corporation
TENTATIVE
RULING –MOTION FOR TRIAL PREFERENCE
BACKGROUND
Plaintiff, Baydzar Keosheyan, filed a Complaint on 10/24/2023 against
Defendant, Kirakosyan Market Inc., a California corporation. The Complaint is a
form complaint and appears to allege two causes of action, one for general
negligence and another for premises liability. 
 
Plaintiff’s causes of action arise from an alleged incident
when Plaintiff was shopping at Defendant’s market called Golden Market and
while checking out at the register, another patron rode his scooter into the
market and struck Plaintiff.
 
On 6/25/2024, this Court signed the parties’ joint
stipulation agreeing that the initial date of loss should reflect January 27,
2023, and not January 26, 2023.
 
RELIEF REQUESTED¿ 
“Plaintiff BAYDZAR KEOSHEYAN will move for an Order that the jury trial in this
case be granted a preference pursuant to sections 36(a) and (e) of the
California Code of Civil Procedure. This motion is made on the grounds that
Plaintiff BAYDZAR KEOSHEYAN is eighty-five (85) years of age, is in ill health
and the interests of justice will be served by granting the preference. In
accordance with the foregoing, Plaintiff BAYDZAR KEOSHEYAN hereby respectfully
requests the Court grant trial preference by setting trial for dates within one
hundred and twenty (120) days from the date of the hearing of the motion.
 
The motion will be based on this
Notice, the attached Memorandum of Points and Authorities and Declaration of
Plaintiff BAYDZAR KEOSHEYAN and such other oral and documentary evidence that
may be submitted at the hearing.”
 
(Mot. p. 1-2.)
 
Procedural 
 
Moving Party: Plaintiff, Baydzar Keosheyan
 
Responding Party: No Opposition by Defendant
 
Moving Papers: Notice/Motion; Proposed Order; 
 
Opposition Papers: No Opposition
 
Reply: Joint Stipulation for Trial Preference and Proposed
Order

16/21
Day Lapse (CCP § 12c and § 1005(b): Ok
Proof of Service Timely Filed (CRC, Rule 3.1300): Ok
Correct Address (CCP § 1013, § 1013a): No- All moving papers and Reply papers
(Joint Stipulation) were served via electronic mail to jane.kuppermann@farmersinsurance.com
and la.legal@farmersinsurance.com. However, eCourt lists Defendant’s counsel’s
email address as sandra.carter@farmersinsurance.com. The parties are to address
this discrepancy at the hearing.
LEGAL
STANDARD – MOTION FOR TRIAL PREFERENCE
As stated in CCP § 36(a):
A
party to a civil action who is over 70 years of age may petition the court for
a preference, which the court shall grant if the court makes both of the
following findings:
(1) The
party has a substantial interest in the action as a whole.
(2) The
health of the party is such that a preference is necessary to prevent
prejudicing the party’s interest in the litigation.
(CCP § 36(a)(1)-(2).)
“An affidavit submitted in support of a motion for
preference under subdivision (a) of Section 36 may be signed by the attorney
for the party seeking preference based upon information and belief as to the
medical diagnosis and prognosis of any party. The affidavit is not admissible
for any purpose other than a motion for preference under subdivision (a) of
Section 36.”(CCP § 36.5.)
“Upon the granting of such a motion for preference, the
court shall set the matter for trial not more than 120 days from that date and
there shall be no continuance beyond 120 days from the granting of the motion
for preference except for physical disability of a party or a party’s attorney,
or upon a showing of good cause stated in the record. Any continuance shall be
for no more than 15 days and no more than one continuance for physical
disability may be granted to any party.” (CCP § 36(f).)
ANALYSIS
Movant
explains that Plaintiff is 85 years of age. (See Keosheyan Decl. ¶ 6.) While
Movant does not clearly explain how 36(a) is met, this requirement appears to
be met because Plaintiff is 85 years of age and presumably has a substantial
interest in the action as a whole since Movant is the Plaintiff.
It appears that Movant is arguing that based on
Plaintiff’s age and injuries, Plaintiff cannot further delay in having her case
heard.
In Plaintiff’s declaration, she states that as a
result of the injury, she was hospitalized for 60 days. (See Keosheyan Decl. ¶
3.) Further, Plaintiff states that her injuries included “a fractured pelvic
bone, lower back pain (required surgery), pain from arms to hands and from legs
to feet, bruising and tenderness to entire body, and dizziness and headaches.”
(See Keosheyan Decl. ¶ 3.) 
Further, Plaintiff states:
4. All daily activities, hobbies and
chores have been affected by my injuries sustained as a result of the incident.
I am unable to entertain friends and family; I cannot visit friends and family
and it is difficult for friends and family to visit me; cooking at home, doing
dishes/laundry, and cleaning the house are limited and extremely difficult; and
I am confined at home and can only walk to and from my balcony. If absolutely
required, I leave the house once a week for necessities with the use of my walker
and am usually accompanied by a friend and/or family member. 
5. I am still affected to this day with
being in immense pain, which is shown through my recent emergency room
admission for lower back and abdominal pain which occurred on March 16, 2024. (Exhibit
A). I do not recognize myself anymore. I have to move and take things
extremely slow in order to avoid any other falls. 
6. The incident happened nearly a year and
a half ago, and the ongoing litigation since the date of the incident has
continued to add to my significant anxiety, stress and trauma resulting from
the incident. I am eighty-five (85) years old and cannot afford further delay
in having my case heard. The entire experience caused by the incident that
occurred at Defendant KIRAKOSYAN MARKETS, INC.’s grocery market was nightmarish
for me. Life is challenging enough for me in my eighties (80s) without having
to deal with the addition of severe and life-threatening injuries. 
7. I am in poor health and this ordeal has
made my health much worse. My health is failing, and the stress of this
unresolved matter is the main contributing factor right now. I suffer from much
anxiety about this case and simply want it to be over and want to be
reimbursed/compensated by the people responsible for it.
(Keosheyan Decl. ¶¶ 4-7.)
Movant also cites to CCP
§ 36(e) which states, “Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the court
may in its discretion grant a motion for preference that is supported by a
showing that satisfies the court that the interests of justice will be served
by granting this preference.” (CCP § 36(e).)
TENTATIVE RULING
The
parties are to address what is the proper electronic service address for
Defendant. All moving papers and Reply papers (Joint Stipulation) were served
via electronic mail to jane.kuppermann@farmersinsurance.com and
la.legal@farmersinsurance.com. However, eCourt lists Defendant’s counsel’s
email address as sandra.carter@farmersinsurance.com. 
While no Opposition was
filed, a Joint Stipulation was filed. This Joint Stipulation for Trial
Preference was signed by both Plaintiff and Defendant’s counsel. 
In relevant part of the
Joint Stipulation, the parties agreed that:
3. On June 4, 2024, Defendant KIRAKOSYAN
MARKETS, INC. took the remote deposition of Plaintiff BAYDZAR KEOSHEYAN. Since
then, Plaintiff BAYDZAR KEOSHEYAN’s health has continued to deteriorate, and
she is in immense pain. 
4. In accordance with such, on June 5,
2024, Plaintiff BAYDZAR KEOSHEYAN filed a Notice of Motion and Motion for
Preference for Party over 70 Years of Age and supporting documents (“Motion for
Preference”). The Motion for Preference is set to be heard on July 11, 2024, at
8:30 AM. 
5. Due to Plaintiff BAYDZAR KEOSHEYAN’s
deteriorating health, she intended to appear ex parte requesting that
the Motion for Preference be heard by the Court at an earlier date and time. 
6. On June 7, 2024, the parties’ attorneys
of record met and conferred as to the filed Motion for Preference, and counsel
for Defendant KIRAKOSYAN MARKETS, INC. confirmed that the Motion for Preference
would not be opposed. 
7. In an effort to save the Court’s
valuable resources, the parties through their attorneys of record have agreed
to enter into this Joint Stipulation for Trial Preference and request that this
Court set a jury trial within one hundred and twenty (120) days from the
signing of an Order. The parties estimate five (5) to six (6) days for the jury
trial. 
8. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the
parties through their respective attorneys of record believe the foregoing may
be accomplished with the setting of trial dates within one hundred and twenty
(120) days from the signing of an Order. 
9. By granting trial preference by way of
this Joint Stipulation, Plaintiff BAYDZAR KEOSHEYAN’s Motion for Preference
will become moot. 
10. Accordingly, the parties hereto
through their respective attorneys of record hereby stipulate (1) that this
matter be granted trial preference; (2) that a 5-6 day jury trial be set within
one hundred and twenty (120) days from the signing of an Order, or as soon
thereafter as the Court deems fit; and (3) that the Court take the Motion for
Preference currently set for July 11, 2024, off calendar on the grounds that it
is moot.
(Joint Stipulation filed 6/25/2024.)
Therefore, the Court tentatively plans to GRANT
Plaintiff’s motion for trial preference. Movant appears to have met the
requirements of CCP § 36(a)(1)-(2). Further, a joint stipulation was filed and
signed by counsel for both parties. 
“Upon the granting of such a motion for preference,
the court shall set the matter for trial not more than 120 days from that date
and there shall be no continuance beyond 120 days from the granting of the
motion for preference except for physical disability of a party or a party’s
attorney, or upon a showing of good cause stated in the record. Any continuance
shall be for no more than 15 days and no more than one continuance for physical
disability may be granted to any party.” (CCP § 36(f).)