 Case Number:  23AHCV00573    Hearing Date:   April 5, 2024    Dept:  3 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - NORTHEAST
DISTRICT
 



WILLIAM FREELAND, 
                    Plaintiff(s),
          vs.
 
SUSAN
   GLORIA VIGIL,
 
                    Defendant(s).


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


     CASE NO.:  23AHCV00573
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: DEFAULT PROVE-UP HEARING 
 
Dept.
  3
8:30
  a.m.

April
   5, 2024




 


 


 



 
         Plaintiff William Freeland
(“Plaintiff”) seeks a default judgment against defendant Susan Gloria Vigil in
the amount of $4,015.106.11, consisting of $13,790.86 in special damages,
$4,000,000 in general damages, and $1,315.25 in costs. 
Plaintiff sustained a distal left
clavicle fracture and multiple fractures to five of his left ribs and was
required to be hospitalized for six days. (Amended Freeland Decl., ¶¶ 4-5.) During
his stay, he had seizures which he had never experienced before. (Id., ¶
5.) After discharge, he was required to use a cane for ambulation, a shower bar
for stability in the shower, a shower chair for bathing, a reaching tool, and a
toilet riser. (Id., ¶ 6.) He also had a healthcare worker assist him
with his bathing needs for 5 to 6 weeks and was required to sleep in a recliner
for 2 to 3 months because the pain prevented him from lying down. (Ibid.)
 
Plaintiff has undergone occupational
therapy and physical therapy since the accident but still does not have full
range of motion in his shoulder. (Id., ¶ 7.) It has been 1 ½ years since
the incident and Plaintiff still has daily soreness and varying degrees of pain
and range of motion issues in his left shoulder depending on the weather and
activities, which he did not have before the collision. ((Id., ¶ 7.) He
also experiences daily soreness and periodic pain in his left chest and ribs. (Id.,
¶8.) The pain and soreness are daily reminders of the incident and affect his
activities of daily living, especially those involving lifting, reaching, and
stretching. (Id., ¶ 9.) Plaintiff also states that he now suffers
general fear and apprehension while walking outside, crossing streets, and when
vehicles drive close to him. (Id., ¶ 10.) As a result, he no longer
takes as many walks, which he previously enjoyed doing. (Ibid.) Although
he has not received an official psychological diagnosis, he believes that he
has been experiencing panic attacks. (Ibid.) 
Based on Plaintiff’s declaration, the
Court awards a default judgment in the amount of $765,106.11 consisting of $13,790.86
in special damages, $750,000 in general damages, and $1,315.25 for costs. If
Plaintiff accepts this reduced amount for his general damages, Plaintiff is
ordered to submit a revised proposed judgment on Form JUD-100 at least 10 court
days before the next hearing date. If Plaintiff believes that a greater amount
is warranted, Plaintiff shall file additional evidence supporting his assertion
at least 10 court days before the hearing. 
The hearing is continued to ________ at
8:30 a.m. in Department 3 of the Alhambra Courthouse. 
Dated
this 5th
day of April, 2024
 




 


 




 


       William A.
  Crowfoot
Judge of the Superior Court
 




 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at ALHDEPT3@lacourt.org indicating
intention to submit on the tentative as directed by the instructions provided
on the court website at www.lacourt.org. Please be advised that if you submit
on the tentative and elect not to appear at the hearing, the opposing party may
nevertheless appear at the hearing and argue the matter. Unless you receive a
submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume that others
might appear at the hearing to argue. If the Court does not receive emails from
the parties indicating submission on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may, at its discretion, adopt the
tentative as the final order or place the motion off calendar.
 