  Case Number:  22STCV13792    Hearing Date:   April 5, 2024    Dept:  3 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - NORTHEAST
DISTRICT
 



ROSEVIANNEY C. OGUMSI,
                    Plaintiff(s),
          vs.
 
RICHARD
   DALE GENTILE, D.D.S., et al., 
 
                    Defendant(s).


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


      CASE NO.: 22STCV13792
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: DEFENDANTS HEYDAR SHAHROKH, D.D.S. AND HEYDAR SHAHROKH, D.D.S.,
  INC. dba COMFORT DENTAL CENTER’S MOTION FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT;PLAINTIFF’S EX
  PARTE APPLICATION TO EXTEND TIME AND RESET THE MOTION FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT
  FOR 120 DAYS
 
 
Dept.
  3
8:30
  a.m.
April 5,
  2024



 
I.      INTRODUCTION
          On April 26,
2022, plaintiff Rosevianney C. Ogumsi (“Plaintiff”) filed this medical
malpractice action against defendants Richard Dale Gentile, D.D.S. (“Dr.
Gentile”), Heydar Hamid Shahrokh, D.D.S. (“Dr. Shahrokh”), and Heydar Shahrokh,
D.D.S., Inc. dba Comfort Dental Center (“Comfort Dental Center”). On July 5,
2022, Plaintiff filed a First Amended Complaint (“FAC”). On September 26, 2022,
Plaintiff filed the operative Second Amended Complaint (“SAC”). 
          On November
7, 2023, Dr. Shahrokh and Comfort Dental Center (collectively referred to as
“Defendants”) filed this motion for summary judgment or, in the alternative,
summary adjudication of Plaintiff’s causes of action for professional
negligence, intentional infliction of emotional distress (“IIED”), negligent
infliction of emotional distress (“NIED”), and violation of Business and
Professions Code section 17200 et seq. (“UCL”). 
          The motion
was originally scheduled to be heard on January 26, 2024, but continued to
April 5, 2024, at Plaintiff’s request due to her reported travel schedule. 
          On March 18,
2024, Plaintiff filed an ex parte application requesting a continuance of 120
days and scheduled the application to be heard on the same day as Defendants’
motion for summary judgment. This order addresses the summary judgment motion
as well as Plaintiff’s ex parte application. 
III.    LEGAL
STANDARDS
In reviewing a motion for summary
judgment, courts must apply a three-step analysis: “(1) identify the issues
framed by the pleadings; (2) determine whether the moving party has negated the
opponent’s claims; and (3) determine whether the opposition has demonstrated
the existence of a triable, material factual issue.” (Hinesley v. Oakshade Town Center (2005) 135 Cal.App.4th 289, 294.) “A
party may move for summary adjudication as to one or more causes of action
within an action, one or more affirmative defenses, one or more claims for
damages, or one or more issues of duty, if that party contends that the cause
of action has no merit or that there is no affirmative defense thereto, or that
there is no merit to an affirmative defense as to any cause of action, or both,
or that there is no merit to a claim for damages . . . or that one or more
defendants either owed or did not owe a duty to the plaintiff or plaintiffs. 
A defendant moving for summary judgment
or summary adjudication “has met his or her burden of showing that a cause of
action has no merit if the party has shown that one or more elements of the
cause of action . . . cannot be established, or that there is a complete
defense to the cause of action.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (p)(2).) 
“Once the defendant . . . has met that
burden, the burden shifts to the plaintiff . . . to show that a triable issue
of one or more material facts exists as to the cause of action or a defense
thereto.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (p)(2).) The plaintiff may not merely
rely on allegations or denials of its pleadings to show that a triable issue of
material fact exists, but instead, “shall set forth the specific facts showing
that a triable issue of material fact exists as to the cause of action.” (Ibid.) “If the plaintiff cannot do so,
summary judgment should be granted.” (Avivi
v. Centro Medico Urgente Medical Center (2008) 159 Cal.App.4th 463, 467.)
IV.    DISCUSSION
A.       Factual Allegations
Plaintiff alleges that she
sought dental care from Defendants in early 2021. As background, on or about
March 2020, Dr. Gentile allegedly performed a root canal in a negligent manner
and left broken file pieces in her teeth, causing nerve damage. (SAC, ¶¶ 18,
23.) Plaintiff sought care from non-parties Canam Dental and Pure Cypress
Dentist and was informed the broken file pieces must be removed by a
specialiast in order to complete the root canal. (SAC, ¶¶ 18, 20.) Plaintiff
was referred to Defendants for the removal and root canal. In early 2021, Dr.
Shahrokh began one of three sessions of root canal work. (SAC, ¶ 23.) After the
third session, Dr. Shahrokh placed a temporary crown and gave Plaintiff an
appointment for installing a permanent crown. (SAC, ¶ 23.) Plaintiff alleges
that Dr. Shahrokh refused to install the permanent crown when she arrived for
the appointment and instead insisted that she return to co-defendant Dr.
Gentile for treatment, which Plaintiff did not want to do. (Ibid.)
Plaintiff requested a copy of her dental records and alleges that Dr. Shahrokh
refused to give her a copy and instead demanded that she put a request in
writing. (Ibid.) When Plaintiff provided a written request, Defendants
still refused to release her records and instead informed her that they had
sent it to Dr. Gentile. (Ibid.) 
On June 28, 2021, Plaintiff went
back to Defendants to inform them that Dr. Gentile stated he had not received
her dental records. (SAC, ¶ 26.) Plaintiff was asked to have a seat; she waited
for 3 hours from 11:00 a.m. to 1:00 p.m. without being assisted and decided to
leave. (Ibid.) 
A week later, Plaintiff again
requested her records from Defendants and waited for an hour while Dr. Shahrokh
was on break. (SAC, ¶ 27.) Dr. Shahrokh returned from his break and ordered
Plaintiff to leave his office immediately or he would call the police. (Ibid.)

On August 12, 2021, Plaintiff
went to Comfort Dental with a written request for her dental records so that
she could be treated by a different doctor at non-party Canam Dental but was
allegedly denied. (SAC, ¶ 28.) She visited again on August 27, 2021, and Dr.
Shahrokh called the police and reported Plaintiff for trespassing. (SAC, ¶ 29.)
The police instructed Defendants to release Plaintiff’s dental records but
Defendants refused. (Ibid.) Plaintiff claims that due to Defendants’
refusal to provide her with her dental records, she was unable to seek
treatment from other dentists and as a result of “the delay in treating
Plaintiff's teeth, or lack of treatment of Plaintiff’s teeth, Plaintiff's [sic]
suffered infection, pain and severe mental anguish.” (SAC, ¶ 30.) 
B.       First Cause of Action for Professional Negligence
In a medical malpractice action,
a plaintiff must establish the following elements: “(1) the duty of the
professional to use such skill, prudence, and diligence as other members of his
profession commonly possess and exercise; (2) a breach of that duty; (3) a
proximate causal connection between the negligent conduct and the resulting
injury; and (4) actual loss or damage resulting from the professional's
negligence.  [citations.]” (Galvez v.
Frields (2001) 88 Cal.App.4th 1410, 1420.) 
i.           
Deemed
Admissions
As an initial matter, Defendants
first argue that Plaintiff cannot prevail on any of her claims due to the
matters deemed admitted as a result of her failure to respond to Defendants’
Requests for Admission (Set One). “[A] deemed admitted order establishes, by
judicial fiat, that a nonresponding party has responded to the requests by
admitting the truth of all matters contained therein.” (Wilcox v.
Birtwhistle (1999) 21 Cal.4th 973, 979.) Requests for admissions “differs
fundamentally from the other five discovery tools (depositions,
interrogatories, inspection demands, medical examinations, and expert witness
exchanges) . . . [because] admission requests seek to eliminate the need for
proof: ‘The purpose of the admissions procedure . . . is to limit the triable
issues and spare the parties the burden and expense of litigating undisputed
issues.’ Sometimes, the admissions obtained will even leave the party making
them vulnerable to summary judgment.” [Citations.] 
Defendants propounded Requests
for Admissions (Set Two) to Plaintiff on April 24, 2023. (Conley Decl., Ex.
AA.) The requests asked Plaintiff to admit that Defendants did not cause any
injury to her while treating her and complied with the standard of care.
Plaintiff also was asked to admit that she did not suffer any damages or
injuries. (Ibid.) On June 26, 2023, Defendants moved to deem these
matters admitted. (Conley Decl., Ex. BB.) The Court granted their motions on
September 25, 2023. 
Based on these deemed
admissions, Defendants have shown that Plaintiff cannot establish a breach of
the applicable standard of care or that Defendants’ breach caused her to
sustain any injury or damages. 
Plaintiff did not oppose the
motion and instead on March 18, 2024 filed an ex parte application requesting
an extension of time to file an opposition. Plaintiff refers to Code of Civil
Procedure section 437c(h) in a footnote and argues that she is unable to
provide an adequate response to Defendants’ motion due to its size beause she
has “recently returned from a overseas trip that took her to Africa for the
last 3 months.” (Ex Parte App., p. 3.) However, Code of Civil Procedure section
437(h) requires a court to deny a summary judgment motion or continue it only if
an opposing party states in an affidavit submitted in oppoisition to a motion
for summary judgment or summary adjudication (or in a timely filed ex parte
application) that “facts essential to justify opposition may exist but cannot,
for reasons stated, be presented.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (h).) The
continuance is intended to permit the opposing party to obtain the required
affidavits or conduct discovery to present evidence which would raise a triable
issue of fact. (Ibid.) 
Here, Plaintiff did not – and
cannot – identify facts that would justify any opposition to Defendants’ motion.
As stated above, Defendants’ motion is premised on facts which have been deemed
admitted. Plaintiff did not file a motion pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure
section 2033.300(a) after the Court granted Defendants’ motion to deem the
matters within their Request for Admissions (Set Two) admitted on September 25,
2023, even though she had ample time to do so. Therefore, as a mattter of law,
no facts could exist that would be sufficient to oppose Defendants’ motion
because “matters that are admitted or deemed admitted through RFA discovery
devices are conclusively established in the litigation and are not subject to
being contested through contrary evidence. [Citation.]” (St. Mary v.
Superior Court (2014) 223 Cal.App.4th 762, 775.) Accordingly, Plaintiff’s
ex parte application for a continuance is denied and Defendants’ motion with
respect to the First Cause of Action is GRANTED.. 
C.      Second and Third Causes of Action 
          Claims
for intentional and negligent infliction of emotional distress require a
plaintiff to prove that they suffered “severe” or “serious” emotional distress.
(Marlene F. v. Affiliated Psychiatric Medical Clinic, Inc. (1989) 48
Cal.3d 583, 588; Hughes v. Pair (2009) 46 Cal.4th 1035, 1050-1051.) 
Plaintiff was asked to admit
that Defendants did not engage in any conduct, including extreme and outrageous
conduct, with intent or reckless disregard for the probability of causing her
emotional distress, which caused her to suffer emotional distress. Plaintiff
was also asked to admit that she failed to suffer any mental or emotional
distress. Due to the Court’s order deeming these requests admitted, Defendants
have met their burden to show that no triable issue of fact exists regarding
Defendants’ conduct or Plaintiff’s damages and Plaintiff cannot contradict
these facts with additional evidence. Therefore, Defendants’ motion is GRANTED
with respect to the Second and Third Causes of Action. 
D.      Fourth Cause of Action for
Unlawful, Unfair and/or Fraudulent Business Practices
For her Fourth
Cause of Action, Plaintiff alleges that Defendants engaged in “fraud and
financial misrepresentations” and violated Business and Professions Code
section 1684.1 by refusing to provide her dental records within 15 days of
presenting a release. (SAC, ¶¶ 65, 69-70.) 
Defendants argue
that summary judgment is appropriate because their requests for admission asked
Plaintiff to admit that Defendants did not commit any fraud against Plaintiff
and that Plaintiff did not suffer any injury, harm, damage. Defendants
additionally requested that Plaintiff admit she is not presently suffering from
any symptoms as a result of the conduct underlying this action and that Defendants
timely provided the records to Plaintiff as requested. Based on the deemed
admissions, Defendants have shown no triable issue exists with respect to any
unlawful, unfair, or fraudulent business practices and Plaintiff cannot submit
evidence to the contrary. Defendants’ motion is GRANTED with respect to the
Fourth Cause of Action.
VI.    CONCLUSION
          Based on the
foregoing, the motion for summary judgment is GRANTED.
 
Moving party to give notice.  
Dated
this 5th
day of April 2024
 




 


 




 


William
  A. Crowfoot
Judge of the Superior Court




 
Parties
who intend to submit on this tentative must send an email to the Court at AHLDEPT3@lacourt.org
indicating intention to submit on the tentative as directed by the
instructions provided on the court’s website at www.lacourt.org. Please be
advised that if you submit on the tentative and elect not to appear at the
hearing, the opposing party may nevertheless appear at the hearing and argue
the matter. Unless you receive a submission from all other parties in the
matter, you should assume that others might appear at the hearing to argue. If
the Court does not receive emails from the parties indicating submission on
this tentative ruling and there are no appearances at the hearing, the Court
may, at its discretion, adopt the tentative as the final order or place the
motion off calendar.