 Case Number:  23AHCV01441    Hearing Date:   April 5, 2024    Dept:  3 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - NORTHEAST
DISTRICT
 



JUAN HERNANDEZ-MARQUEZ, 
                    Plaintiff(s),
          vs.
 
GENERAL
   MOTORS LLC,
 
                    Defendant(s).


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


     CASE NO.:  23AHCV01441
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: DEMURRER WITH MOTION TO STRIKE 
 
Dept.
  3
8:30
  a.m.
April 5,
  2024




 


 


 



 
          On October
26, 2023, plaintiff Juan Hernandez-Marquez (“Plaintiff”) filed the operative
First Amended Complaint (“FAC”) in this lemon law action. On November 27, 2023,
defendant General Motors LLC (“Defendant”) filed a demurrer to the FAC’s Fourth
Cause of Action for fraudulent concealment and a motion to strike Plaintiff’s
prayer for punitive damages.
          On March 19,
2024, Plaintiff filed a request for dismissal requesting that the clerk dismiss
his Fourth Cause of Action in the FAC but the dismissal was not entered because
the attorney’s address on the form did not match the address on record with the
Court. On March 29, 2024, Defendant filed a notice withdrawing its demurrer and
motion to strike as moot. Based on these two filings, it appears that the
parties have agreed that the Fourth Cause of Action is no longer at issue and
the demurrer and motion to strike are moot. However, the Court cannot process
the dismissal of the Fourth Cause of Action until Plaintiff files another
request for dismissal or, alternatively, does so on the record during the
hearing on this matter.
 
 
Dated
this 5th
day of April, 2024
 




 


 




 


       William A.
  Crowfoot
Judge of the Superior Court
 




 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at ALHDEPT3@lacourt.org indicating
intention to submit on the tentative as directed by the instructions provided
on the court website at www.lacourt.org. Please be advised that if you submit
on the tentative and elect not to appear at the hearing, the opposing party may
nevertheless appear at the hearing and argue the matter. Unless you receive a
submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume that others
might appear at the hearing to argue. If the Court does not receive emails from
the parties indicating submission on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may, at its discretion, adopt the
tentative as the final order or place the motion off calendar.
 