 Case Number:  23STCV25128    Hearing Date:   March 18, 2024    Dept:  32 


 
HAKOB JOHNNY NAZARETYAN,
  et al.,
                        Plaintiffs,
            v.
 
DSD MANAGEMENT,  
                        Defendant.
  


 
  Case No.:  23STCV25128 
  Hearing Date:  March 18, 2024
 
     [TENTATIVE]
  order RE:
plaintiffs’ motion for trial preference 




 


 



BACKGROUND
            On October 16, 2023, Plaintiff Hakob
Johnny Nazaretyan, individually and as guardian ad litem for minor
Ariana Nazaretyan; and Sati Gevorgyan, individually, filed this action against
Defendant DSD Management, LLC. The complaint asserts causes of action for (1)
breach of the implied covenant of habitability, (2) negligence, and (3)
nuisance. 
            On February 21, 2024, Plaintiffs
filed the instant motion for trial preference on the grounds that Ariana
Nazaretyan is a minor. Defendant filed its opposition on March 5, 2024.
Plaintiffs filed their reply on March 11, 2024.
LEGAL STANDARD
“A civil action to recover damages for
wrongful death or personal injury shall be entitled to preference upon the
motion of any party to the action who is under 14 years of age unless the court
finds that the party does not have a substantial interest in the case as a
whole.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 36(b).) The statute makes preference mandatory as
long as the conditions are met, regardless of prejudice. (See Swaithes v.
Superior Court (1989) 212 Cal.App.3d 1082, 1085 [“The trial court has no
power to balance the differing interests of opposing litigants in applying the
provision”].)
DISCUSSION
There is no dispute that Ariana Nazaretyan
is a minor under the age of 14. Defendants instead argue that the minor
plaintiff does not have a substantial interest in the case as a whole. The
statute does not define “substantial interest,” nor is there caselaw imposing a
definition.  
            Plaintiffs argue that the minor has
a substantial interest in the case as a whole because she was exposed to the
same uninhabitable conditions as the adult plaintiffs, suffered numerous
injuries as a result, and is suing for substantial damages. Defendant argues
that the minor does not have a substantial interest for the following reasons:
Plaintiffs have no actual evidence of the minor’s injuries beyond a single
diagnosis of ringworm with an unidentified cause; the minor is only 2.5 years
old and will not be testifying, and therefore has no interest in expediting the
case; the minor did not suffer lost income and did not pay for the medical
expenses; the adult plaintiffs are the ones bringing the suit and will be the
ones producing the evidence; and any damages awarded to the minor will be
deposited in a blocked account. 
            The Court agrees with Defendant. Here,
the interest of the minor plaintiff is tangential compared to the adult
plaintiffs, who are the primary litigants. The numerical proportion of minors
to adults is not dispositive. The evidence will primarily concern and come from
the adult plaintiffs. The adults would have suffered the majority of damages
because they would have been the ones who paid the rent and medical expenses. Therefore,
the Court finds that the minors do not have a substantial interest in the case
as a whole.   
CONCLUSION
            Plaintiffs’ motion for trial
preference is DENIED.