 Case Number:  22STCV34203    Hearing Date:   March 18, 2024    Dept:  32 


 
JANE DOE,
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
 
CASA DE LA FAMILIA, et
  al., 
                        Defendants.
  


 
  Case No.:  22STCV34203
  Hearing Date:  March 18, 2024
 
     [TENTATIVE]
  order RE:
plaintiff’s motions to compel further
  responses (CRS# 0522, 5298, 3150, 3553) 




 


 



BACKGROUND
            On October 24, 2022, Plaintiff Jane
Doe filed this action against Defendants Casa de la Familia (CDLF), Nogales
Psychological Counseling, Inc. (Nogales), and Oscar Aquino (Aquino). The complaint
asserts causes of action for: (1) sexual harassment in violation of Civil Code
section 51.9; (2) sexual battery in violation of Civil Code section 1708.5; and
(3) negligence. Nogales has been dismissed from the lawsuit.
            According to the complaint, Aquino
was employed by CDLF as a marriage and family therapist from April 2019 to May
2020. (Compl. ¶ 15.) Plaintiff alleges that on October 5, 2019, she attended a
therapy appointment with Aquino wherein Aquino sexually assaulted her. (Id.,
¶¶ 16-17.) 
            On February 14 and 15, 2024,
Plaintiff filed the instant four motions to compel further responses from
Defendant CDLF as to interrogatories, requests for production, and requests for
admission. Defendant filed its oppositions on March 5, 2024.
 
LEGAL STANDARD
Upon receiving responses to its discovery
requests, the propounding party may move for an order compelling further
responses if the responses are incomplete or evasive, or objections are without
merit or too general. (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 2030.300(a), 2031.310(a),
2033.290(a).) 
MEET AND CONFER
A motion to compel further must be
accompanied by a meet and confer declaration demonstrating an attempt to
resolve the matter informally. (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 2030.300(b)(1),
2031.310(b), 2033.290(b).) The Court finds that Plaintiff has satisfied the
meet and confer requirement. (See Bulger Decl.)
DISCUSSION
I.
Special Interrogatories
            The SROGs seek information related
to other complaints against Aquino, complaints about inappropriate therapist
conduct at CDLF, and the contact information of the complainants. Defendant
objected that the requests are irrelevant and invade privacy.
            a. Relevance
            “[A]ny party may obtain discovery
regarding any matter, not privileged, that is relevant to the subject matter
involved in the pending action or to the determination of any motion made in
that action, if the matter either is itself admissible in evidence or appears
reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence.” (Code
Civ. Proc., § 2017.010.) “‘Relevant’ evidence is evidence ‘having any tendency
in reason to prove or disprove any disputed fact that is of consequence to the
determination of the action.’” (D.Z. v. Los Angeles Unified School Dist.
(2019) 35 Cal.App.5th 210, 229.) 
            In this action, Plaintiff alleges
that Defendant CDLF knew of Aquino’s propensity for sexual misconduct.
Information on other complaints, including the contact information of the
complainants, is directly relevant to establishing a pattern of misconduct and
Defendant’s knowledge thereof. However, the relevance of this information
extends only to events up to the date of the subject incident, October 5, 2019.
Complaints after October 5, 2019 are not relevant. 
b. Privacy
            “The party asserting a privacy right
must establish a legally protected privacy interest, an objectively reasonable
expectation of privacy in the given circumstances, and a threatened intrusion
that is serious.” (Williams v. Sup. Ct. (2017) 3 Cal.5th 531, 552.) If
the court finds a privacy interest, the court must balance the privacy concerns
against the need for the information. (Id. at p. 552.) Discovery of
private information is governed by the more stringent standard of direct
relevance in order to prevent a fishing expedition of “tangentially pertinent
sensitive information.” (Boler v. Sup. Ct. (1987) 201 Cal.App.3d 467,
472.) “The burden is on the party seeking the constitutionally protected
information to establish direct relevance.” (Davis v. Superior Court
(1992) 7 Cal.App.4th 1008, 1017.)
            “The disclosure of the names and
addresses of potential witnesses is a routine and essential part of
pretrial discovery.” (Puerto v. Superior Court (2008) 158 Cal.App.4th
1242, 1249-50.) Protected medical information consists of “a patient’s medical
history, mental health application information, reproductive or sexual health
application information, mental or physical condition, or treatment.” (Civ.
Code, § 56.05(j).) It does not include mere contact information. Additionally,
even medical information is subject to disclosure if compelled by a court
order. (Id., § 56.10(b)(1).) Therefore, the protection is not absolute. Defendant
cites no authority for its proposition that contact information falls under the
“inalienable right of privacy.”
            Defendant has not established a
reasonable expectation of privacy in mere contact information, especially for
patients who had already filed complaints. (See Pioneer
Electronics (USA), Inc. v. Superior Court (2007) 40 Cal.4th 360, 371 [“Revealing
names, addresses and contact information on persons who have already
complained about their Pioneer DVD players would not be particularly sensitive
or intrusive”].) Even if there were a reasonable expectation of privacy, the
information sought is directly relevant because Plaintiff is entitled to
establish that Defendant was aware of Aquino’s propensity for sexual
misconduct. Plaintiff’s need for the information outweighs the privacy
concerns. Furthermore, a protective order will sufficiently protect any privacy
interests, such that the intrusion is not serious. (See Hill v. National
Collegiate Athletic Assn. (1994) 7 Cal.4th 1, 38.) 
            In sum, further responses are
required for the SROGs.   
II.
Form Interrogatories
An answer to an interrogatory must be as
complete and straightforward as possible. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.220(a).)
Form Interrogatories are drafted and approved by the Judicial Council and seek
basic information fundamental to routine discovery. (See Puerto, supra, 158
Cal.App.4th at p. 1250.) A party “is entitled to demand answers to its
interrogatories, as a matter of right . . . [and] the burden of justifying any
objection and failure to respond remains at all times with the party
resisting an interrogatory.” (Williams, supra, 3 Cal.5th at p. 541.)  
For FROG Nos. 3.7 and 12.1, Defendant’s
only contention is that it has provided or will provide supplemental responses.
Defendant does not otherwise contend that its initial responses were proper.
This constitutes a concession that the original responses were defective as set
forth in Plaintiff’s separate statement. Therefore, the motion is granted as to
FROG Nos. 3.7 and 12.1.
Defendant substantively opposes FROG Nos.
14.1 and 14.2. FROG No. 14.1 asks whether Defendant contends that any person
involved in the incident violated any law which was a proximate cause of the
incident. If so, the FROGs ask for the contact information of each such person
and the law that was violated. FROG No. 14.2 asks whether any person was cited
or charged with a legal violation as a result of the incident. If so, the FROG
asks for each person’s contact information, the law violated, whether the person
entered a plea, contact information for the court or administrative agency, the
names of the parties, and the case number.
In response to FROG Nos. 14.1 and 14.2,
Defendant objected and then identified the investigation conducted by the
Department of Consumer Affairs (DCA). This is nonresponsive. The FROGs clearly
ask a series of discrete questions. Defendant never stated whether any person
violated a statute or ordinance in connection with the incident, nor did
Defendant identify the person(s) or provide the corresponding information
required by the subparts. 
Defendant argues that it attached the DCA
investigation and is not obligated to go through each page to list out the
specifics for Plaintiff’s benefit. This argument ignores the real issue, which
is Defendant’s failure to answer each interrogatory completely and
straightforwardly. Again, the FROGs ask a series of discrete questions, and
Defendant answered none of them. Defendant cannot simply reference a document
unless “the answer to an interrogatory would necessitate the preparation or the
making of a compilation, abstract, audit, or summary of or from the documents
of the party to whom the interrogatory is directed, and if the burden or
expense of preparing or making it would be substantially the same for the party
propounding the interrogatory as for the responding party.” (See Code Civ.
Proc., § 2030.230.) Even then, Defendant’s response must provide “sufficient
detail to permit the propounding party to locate and to identify, as readily as
the responding party can, the documents from which the answer may be
ascertained.” (Ibid.) Defendant merely cited the entire DCA
investigation without providing any information on where to find the answers to
the specific questions posed by the FROGs.
In sum, Defendant must fully and clearly
respond to each subpart of the subject FROGs. To the extent Defendant does not
possess responsive information, it must provide a code-compliant response to
that effect. (See Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.220(c).)  
 
 
 
III.
Requests for Production
            The information sought in the RFPs
parallels the information sought in the SROGs discussed above. Defendant
asserts the same relevance and privacy arguments. For the same reasons,
Defendant must provide further responses to the RFPs.  
IV.
Requests for Admission
            Like the discovery discussed above,
the RFAs seek information pertaining to complaints against Aquino and
Defendant’s potential knowledge of Aquino’s pattern of misconduct. Defendant
primarily objected to the RFAs as being vague and ambiguous. In particular,
Defendant argues that it could not respond to RFAs alleging that other patients
had complained about Aquino asking “inappropriate questions” or exhibiting
“inappropriate behavior.” 
            Defendant’s contention is without
merit. It is not credible that Defendant cannot ascertain what constitutes
“inappropriate” conduct, considering the context of the lawsuit. Plaintiff
alleges that Aquino asked her invasive questions about her sex life before
inappropriately touching her. Defendant is readily capable of determining
whether others have made complaints of similar or related conduct. Where “the
nature of the information sought is apparent, the proper solution is to provide
an appropriate response,” even if “the question is somewhat ambiguous.” (Deyo
v. Kilbourne (1978) 84 Cal.App.3d 771, 783.) 
            As discussed above, the relevance of
this information is limited to events occurring on or before October 5, 2019. 
CONCLUSION
            Plaintiffs’ motions to compel
further responses are GRANTED in part as set forth above. Defendant CDLF shall
provide further responses to the subject discovery within 15 days of this
order. Production shall be subject to a protective order. Sanctions are denied
as the parties acted with substantial justification. 
             