 Case Number:  BC673670    Hearing Date:   June 7, 2024    Dept:  47 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Theresa M. Traber, Department 47
 
 
HEARING DATE:     June 7, 2024               TRIAL DATE: NOT
SET
                                                           
CASE:                         Samson Michael, as Trustee of the Mishael
Family Trust of 2004, derivatively on behalf of Hillcrest Cetner, LLC v.
Simontov Eshaghian, individually and as Trustee of the Eshagian Family Trust
dated November 8, 1995, et al. 
 
CASE NO.:                 BC673670            
 
PETITION
TO CONFIRM ARBITRATION AWARD

 
MOVING PARTY:               Defendant/Cross-Complainant Simontov Eshaghian
 
RESPONDING PARTY(S): Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant
Samson Michael, as Trustee of the Mishael Family Trust of 2004
 
CASE
HISTORY:
·        
08/24/17: Complaint filed.
·        
01/28/19: First Amended and Verified LLC Member
Derivative Complaint filed.
·        
08/29/19: Cross-Complaint filed. 
 
STATEMENT
OF MATERIAL FACTS AND/OR PROCEEDINGS:
            
Plaintiff alleges that Defendant Eshaghian, the other
member of Hillcrest Center, LLC, drove the LLC into financial ruin and
converted its real estate holdings to his own use, and conspired with
co-Defendants to acquire the underlying loan and foreclose on the property.
Defendant Eshaghian has filed a cross-complaint for judicial dissolution of
Hillcrest Center, LLC. 
 
Defendant petitions for
confirmation of an arbitration award. 
            
TENTATIVE RULING:
 
            The
Petition to Confirm Arbitration Award is GRANTED. 
 
DISCUSSION:
 
Defendant petitions for
confirmation of an arbitration award. 
Legal Standard for Confirmation of Arbitration Award
 
Any party to an arbitration award
may petition the court to confirm, correct, or vacate the award. (Code Civ.
Proc. § 1285.) “If a petition or response under this chapter is duly served and
filed, the court shall confirm the
award as made, whether rendered in this state or another state, unless in
accordance with this chapter it corrects the award and confirms it as
corrected, vacates the award or dismisses the proceeding.” (Code Civ. Proc. §
1286, bold emphasis added.) A petition to confirm a binding arbitration must
name as respondents all parties to the arbitration and may name any other
parties to be bound by the award. (Code Civ. Proc. § 1285.) The petition shall
(1) set forth the substance of or have attached a copy of the agreement to
arbitrate unless petitioner denies the existence of such an agreement; (2) set
forth the name(s) of the arbitrator(s); and (3) set forth or have attached a
copy of the award and written opinion of the arbitrator. (Code Civ. Proc. §
1285.4(a)-(c).)
 
The petition to confirm must be
served and filed no later than four years after the date of service of a signed
copy of the award on the petitioner (Code Civ. Proc. § 1288) but may not be
served and filed until at least 10 days after service of the signed copy of the
award upon the petitioner.  (Code Civ.
Proc. § 1288.4.) 
 
Procedural Compliance
 
Here, all parties to the
arbitration are named in the petition. (Petition ¶ 1.) The agreement to
arbitrate is attached to the Petition. (Attach. 4b) The name of the arbitrator,
the Hon. Victor B. Kenton (ret.), is set forth in the Petition. (¶6.)
 
A copy of the executed arbitration
award, dated April 12, 2024, is also attached to the petition and was served on
Respondent on that same day. (Attach. 8c.) The petition to confirm was filed on
May, 2024, and served the same day by email. (See Proof of Service.) These
dates are all within four years from the date the award was served and more
than ten days after the award was served. 
 
Timeliness of Response
 
Plaintiff filed and served a
response to the petition on May 28, 2024. Pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure
section 1290.6, any response to a petition to confirm an arbitration award must
be served and filed within 10 days of service of the petition, unless the
parties stipulate otherwise in writing or if the Court finds good cause to
order otherwise. (Code Civ. Proc. § 1290.6) Here, however, the response to the
petition was filed and served well past that deadline for a petition filed and
served on May 1. Plaintiff’s counsel concedes this defect and states that his
office calendared the deadline to oppose the petition as if it were a regularly
noticed motion under Code of Civil Procedure section 1005(b). (Declaration of
George Shohet ISO Opp. ¶ 4.) Although Defendant objects to the late filing of
the response, Defendant does not demonstrate any prejudice caused by the late
service and filing of the response. The Court therefore finds good cause to
permit the late filing of Plaintiff’s opposition and to address that opposition
on its merits. 
 
Plaintiff’s Response to Petition
 
Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant objects to the petition and
argues that the Court should not confirm the arbitration award because the
arbitrator did not fully address the issue of the cross-complaint which was
submitted to him. An arbitrator is obligated to determine “all the questions
submitted to the arbitrator[], the decision of which is necessary in order to
determine the controversy.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 1283.4.) The Court is obligated
to vacate the award if the arbitrator’s failure to determine a necessary matter
constitutes either an excess of authority which cannot be corrected without
affecting the merits of the decision (Code Civ. Proc. § 1286.2(a)(4)) or a
situation where “[t]he rights of the party were substantially prejudiced . . .
by the refusal of the arbitrators to hear evidence material to the controversy
or by other conduct of the arbitrators contrary to the provisions of this
title.” (Code Civ. Proc. §1286.2(a)(5).) 
 
Plaintiff contends that the arbitration award should be
vacated because the arbitrator did not decide the issue of the Cross-Complaint
which demanded dissolution of the LLC. The arbitration award addresses the
merits of the underlying complaint, concluding that Defendant did not breach
any of his fiduciary duties to the LLC or to Plaintiff, while Plaintiff
breached his duties to both. (Attach. 8c. p.7:4-7.) As to the Cross-Complaint,
the award acknowledges that the Cross-Defendant argued that dissolution of the
LLC was impossible because it is suspended, and “defer[red] to the Superior
Court to determine this issue if the parties continue to disagree,” and offered
recommendations on the appropriate form of that dissolution, without ruling. (Id.
p.7:8-15.) 
 
Plaintiff contends that determination of the
cross-complaint was necessary and that the arbitrator’s failure to conclusively
rule on the matter prejudiced his interests. Defendant, in reply, argues to the
contrary, construing the arbitrator’s award as declining to grant the request
for dissolution but offering suggestions on the appropriate form that measure
should take if it were ever enacted. As Defendant argues, “[i]t is for the
arbitrators to determine which issues were actually ‘necessary’ to the ultimate
decision.” (Morris v. Zuckerman (1968) 69 Cal.2d 686, 690 [citing Grunwald-Marx,
Inc. v. Los Angeles Joint Board (1959) 52 Cal.2d 568 589-90.) The failure
to make a finding on even an express claim does not invalidate the award if the
award serves to settle the entire controversy. (Sapp v. Barenfeld (1949)
34 Cal.2d 515, 522-23.) 
 
More crucially, Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant does not explain
how the failure to award Defendant/Cross-Complainant the relief sought constitutes
substantial prejudice to Cross-Defendant’s rights. In addition, Defendant now
concedes that so long as the LLC is suspended, dissolution is impossible, and
contends that there can be no prejudice to Plaintiff’s interests in that
respect because Defendant, as the Cross-Complainant, is abandoning the request
for dissolution to secure confirmation of the award and an end to the dispute.
(See Reply p. 10:4-7.) An order confirming the arbitration award would
therefore obviate any risk of prejudice to Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant, because
Cross-Complainant would be bound to that judicial admission in any potential
future action. Further, that concession renders the claim for dissolution, in
the Court’s view, non-essential because the party asserting it is now expressly
abandoning that claim as legally invalid so long as the suspension remains in
effect. 
 
The Court is therefore not persuaded that the arbitration
award must be vacated on any of the bases asserted by
Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant. 
 
CONCLUSION: 
 
            Accordingly,
the Petition to Confirm Arbitration Award is GRANTED. 
 
            Moving
Party to give notice.
 
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
Dated:  June 7, 2024                           ___________________________________
                                                                                    Theresa
M. Traber
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court
 

            Any party may submit on the
tentative ruling by contacting the courtroom via email at Smcdept47@lacourt.org by no later than 4:00 p.m. the day
before the hearing. All interested parties must be copied on the email. It
should be noted that if you submit on a tentative ruling the court will still
conduct a hearing if any party appears. By submitting on the tentative you
have, in essence, waived your right to be present at the hearing, and you
should be aware that the court may not adopt the tentative, and may issue an
order which modifies the tentative ruling in whole or in part.
 