 Case Number:  21STCV35300    Hearing Date:   June 7, 2024    Dept:  47 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Theresa M. Traber, Department 47
 
 
HEARING DATE:     June 7, 2024               TRIAL DATE: June
25, 2024
                                                           
CASE:                         Timothy Joseph Toups (deceased) et al.
v. 3M Company, et al.
 
CASE NO.:                 21STCV35300            
 
(1)
MOTION TO COMPEL FURTHER RESPONSES TO REQUESTS FOR ADMISSIONS
(2)
MOTION TO COMPEL FURTHER RESPONSES TO FORM INTERROGATORIES

 
MOVING PARTY:               Defendant Weiman Products, LLC
 
RESPONDING PARTY(S): No response on
eCourt as of 6/5/24.
 
CASE
HISTORY:
·        
09/24/21: Complaint filed.
·        
10/20/21: The Quikrete Companies, LLC
substituted in as Doe 1
·        
11/29/21: Dismissal entered as to Quikrete
International, Inc. 
·        
01/17/23: First Amended Complaint filed. 
 
STATEMENT
OF MATERIAL FACTS AND/OR PROCEEDINGS:
            
            This is a toxic tort and survival action. Plaintiffs allege that Timothy
Joseph Toups, now deceased, was exposed to various toxic chemicals while
working in construction, which ultimately caused his fatal illness. 
 
Defendant Weiman Products, LLC
moves to compel further responses to requests for admissions and form
interrogatories propounded to Plaintiffs Patton and Young. 
            
TENTATIVE RULING:
 
            Defendant’s
Motion to Compel Further Responses to Requests for Admissions is DENIED.
 
            Defendant’s
Motion to Compel Further Responses to Form Interrogatories is GRANTED IN PART.
Plaintiffs are ordered to provide further verified, code-compliant responses
without objections as to Interrogatory No. 17.1 Request No. 26.  
 
            Defendant’s
Request for Sanctions is DENIED.
 
            This
ruling is conditioned on payment of $60 in filing fees by Defendant within 10
days of this order. 
 
DISCUSSION:
 
            Defendant
moves to compel further responses to Requests for Admissions and Form
Interrogatories propounded to Plaintiffs Young and Patton as
successors-in-interest for Plaintiff Toups. 
 
Two Motions in One
 
            Multiple
motions should not be combined into a single filing.¿(See¿Govt. Code,¿§
70617(a)(4) [setting forth the required filing fee for each motion,
application, or any other paper or request requiring a hearing];¿see¿also¿Weil
& Brown, Civil Procedure Before Trial, [8:1140.1] at 8F-60 (The Rutter
Group 2011)¿[“Motions to compel compliance with separate discovery requests
ordinarily should be filed separately.”].) 
 
Here, Defendant improperly combined
a Motion to Compel Further Responses to Requests for Admissions and a Motion to
Compel Further Responses to Form Interrogatories into a single filing. Combining
multiple motions under the guise of one motion with one hearing reservation
manipulates the Court Reservation System and unfairly jumps ahead of other
litigants. Moreover, combining motions to avoid payment of separate filing fees
deprives the Court of filing fees it is otherwise entitled to collect,
notwithstanding that one of these motions has since been mooted, as discussed infra.
 
            The Court
therefore conditions its ruling on this motion on the payment of an additional
$60 in filing fees within 10 days of this order. In the interest of brevity, however,
the Court will address both motions jointly.
 
Legal Standard
 
            Code of
Civil Procedure section 2033.290(a) provides that “[o]n receipt of a response
to requests for admissions, the party requesting admissions may move for an
order compelling a further response if that party deems that either or both of
the following apply: (1) An answer to a particular request is evasive or
incomplete; (2) An objection to a particular request is without merit or too
general.” (Code Civ. Proc § 2033.290(a).) Substantively identical requirements
apply to form interrogatories. (Code Civ. Proc. § 2030.300(a).) 
 
The burden is on the responding party to justify any objection or failure
to fully answer the requests. (See Fairmont Ins. Co. v. Superior Court
(2000) 22 Cal.4th 245, 255.)
 
Meet and Confer
 
A party making a motion to compel further
responses must also include a declaration stating facts showing a “reasonable
and good faith attempt” to resolve informally the issues presented by the
motion before filing the motion. (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 2016.040, 2030.300(b);
2033.290(b).)
 
The Declaration of Chase
C. Carlile attached to this motion states that the parties met and conferred
via email and telephone concerning the operative responses to Defendant’s
discovery between May 3 and May 16, 2024, without success. (Declaration of Chase
C. Carlile ISO Mot. ¶¶ 4-10.) Defendant has therefore complied with its
statutory meet-and-confer obligation. 
 
Timing
 
            A motion to
compel further responses to requests for admission or for interrogatories must
be served “within 45 days of the service of the verified response, or any
supplemental verified response, or on or before any specific later date to
which the propounding party and the responding party have agreed in writing.”
(Code Civ. Proc. §§ 2030.300(c).) 2033.290(c).) The 45-day requirement is
mandatory and jurisdictional. (Sexton v. Superior Court¿(1997) 58
Cal.App.4th 1403, 1410.)
 
            Here, Plaintiff’s
responses were served on April 30, 2024. (Carlile Decl. ¶2, Exh. 1.) This
motion was filed on May 21, 2024, 21 days later. The motion is therefore
timely. 
 
Analysis
 
            Defendant
moves to compel further responses to requests for admissions Nos. 6, 8, 10, 11,
14, 16, 20, and 26. These requests sought admission that Defendant’s product,
Goo Gone, contains warning labels and instructions for use (Carlile Decl. Exh.
1. No. 6); that Decedent did not read the warning labels on the product (No. 8)
or material safety data sheets (No. 10), nor did he use personal protective
equipment (No. 11). The requests also sought admissions that the decedent did
not rely on the warning labels to protect his own health and safety (No. 15),
or the instructions for use (No. 16), and that he used the product fewer than
six times per year. (No. 20). Defendant also sought an admission that
Plaintiffs have no evidence to support a claim of punitive damages against this
Defendant. (No. 26.) Plaintiffs asserted a series of boilerplate objections for
privacy, privilege, and calls for speculation, among others, before denying
each of the requests at issue. (Id. Nos. 6, 8, 10, 11, 15, 16, 20, 26.) Defendant
contends that the objections are without merit and, more crucially, that
Plaintiffs’ denials are contradicted by the prior testimony of the decedent. However,
even a cursory reading of the decedent’s deposition testimony offered by
Defendant belies that contention. Rather than categorically contradicting the
denials, the decedent merely testifies that he could not recall whether he did
the things that were asked of him (e.g., Carlile Decl. Exh. 3 p. 467:1-7), and
states that he used the product “half a dozen times”—i.e., not fewer
than six times—in a year. (Id. Exh. 3 465:15.) Similarly, the statement
that the decedent never communicated to Weiman products does not establish that
Plaintiffs have no basis for punitive damages against Defendant, merely that
the decedent never communicated with Defendant. (Id. Exh. 3.
p.469:9-17.) The Court therefore declines to find that these responses are
evasive because they do not, in fact, contradict the decedent’s prior
testimony.
 
            Defendant
also seeks to compel further responses to Form Interrogatory No. 17.1, which
seeks the facts supporting each denial of a request for admission, the
witnesses with relevant information, and any responsive documents, on the basis
that Plaintiffs’ responses to those interrogatories are likewise evasive.
However, with the exception of No. 26, these arguments are universally premised
on the claim that the decedent’s deposition contradicts the denial. As the
Court has rejected Defendant’s contrary contention, its argument based on that
contention likewise fails. 
 
            As to
Request No. 26, Plaintiffs’ response set forth a standardized recitation of the
theory of the case, recited a lengthy list of witnesses, and directed Defendant
to Plaintiffs’ entire document production. (Carlile Decl. Exh. 2. No. 26.) Defendant
contends that Plaintiffs’ production consists of three unrelated photographs
and the decedent’s medical records and related invoices. (Carlile Decl. ¶ 14.) Defendant
argues that this response is evasive on its face, and, based on the
uncontroverted evidence, the Court agrees. A vague gesture at the entirety of
Plaintiff’s document production is not sufficient, and greater specificity is
required. 
 
Sanctions
 
            Defendant
also requests an unspecified amount of sanctions against Plaintiffs for
necessitating this motion. As neither side fully prevailed on the motion,
neither party is entitled to sanctions. Moreover, even if Defendant had wholly
prevailed, the Court would not award sanctions on a pair of procedurally
tangled motions such as these. 
 
CONCLUSION: 
 
            Accordingly,
Defendant’s Motion to Compel Further Responses to Requests for Admissions is DENIED.
 
            Defendant’s
Motion to Compel Further Responses to Form Interrogatories is GRANTED IN PART.
Plaintiffs are ordered to provide further verified, code-compliant responses
without objections as to Interrogatory No. 17.1 Request No. 26.  
 
            Defendant’s
Request for Sanctions is DENIED.
 
            This
ruling is conditioned on payment of $60 in filing fees by Defendant within 10
days of this order. 
 
            Moving
Party to give notice. 
 
 
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
Dated: June 7, 2024                            ___________________________________
                                                                                    Theresa
M. Traber
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court
 

            Any party may submit on the
tentative ruling by contacting the courtroom via email at Smcdept47@lacourt.org by no later than 4:00 p.m. the day
before the hearing. All interested parties must be copied on the email. It
should be noted that if you submit on a tentative ruling the court will still
conduct a hearing if any party appears. By submitting on the tentative you
have, in essence, waived your right to be present at the hearing, and you
should be aware that the court may not adopt the tentative, and may issue an
order which modifies the tentative ruling in whole or in part.
 