  Case Number:  20STCV37618    Hearing Date:   January 9, 2025    Dept:  30 Calendar # 11
Date: 1/9/2025
Case Name: NAT-PHARM
INC., vs SILVERADO SENIOR LIVING, INC., et al.
Case # 20STCV37618
 
MOTION FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT
 
 
Silverado
Senior Living Holdings, Inc. and Silverado Senior Living Management (Defendants)
move for summary judgment against Nat-Pharm Inc. (Plaintiff). Defendants argue
that there is no triable issue of material fact concerning their service past
the limitations period established in Code of Civil Procedure section 583.210. Plaintiff
contends that Defendants waived this defense by participating in litigation, or
alternatively, that the doctrine of equitable estoppel tolled the time for
service. The Court denies summary judgment.
 
A.   
Plaintiff
was given sufficient notice.
 
As a
threshold matter, Plaintiff contends that its due process rights were violated
by Defendants filing the present motion only 75 days in advance of the hearing.
“Notice of the motion and supporting papers shall be served on all other
parties to the action at least 81 days before the time appointed for hearing.”
(Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (a)(2).) However, this statute was recently
amended, only taking effect on January 1, 2025. When Defendants initially filed
their motion for summary judgment, the required notice period was only 75 days.
There is no reason why the new notice requirement should be applied
retroactively. Thus, the Court finds that Plaintiff received sufficient notice.
 
 
B.    
Legal
Standard
 
The function of a motion for summary judgment or
adjudication is to allow a determination as to whether an opposing party can
show evidentiary support for a claim or defense and if not to enable an order
of summary dismissal without the need for trial. (Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 843.) Code
of Civil Procedure Section 437c, subdivision (c) “requires the trial judge to
grant summary judgment if all the evidence submitted, and ‘all inferences
reasonably deducible from the evidence’ and uncontradicted by other inferences
or evidence, show that there is no triable issue as to any material fact and
that the moving party is entitled to judgment as a matter of law.” (Adler v. Manor Healthcare Corp. (1992) 7
Cal.App.4th 1110, 1119.)
 
As to each claim as framed by the complaint, a
moving defendant “has met that party’s burden of showing that a cause of action
has no merit if the party has shown that one or more elements of the cause of
action, even if not separately pleaded, cannot be established, or that there is
a complete defense to the cause of action.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd.
(p)(2).) Courts “liberally construe the evidence in support of the party
opposing summary judgment and resolve doubts concerning the evidence in favor of
that party.”  (Dore v. Arnold Worldwide, Inc. (2006) 39 Cal.4th 384, 389.) Once
the defendant has met that burden, the burden shifts to the opposing plaintiff “to
show that a triable issue of one or more material facts exists as to the cause
of action or a defense thereto.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (p)(2).) To
establish a triable issue of material fact, the party opposing the motion must
produce substantial responsive evidence. (Sangster
v. Paetkau (1998) 68 Cal.App.4th 151, 166.)
 
C.     Discussion
 
Defendants move for summary judgment on the basis that their
service more than three years after Plaintiff filed its complaint bars any
claims against them. However, Plaintiff has raised a triable issue of material
fact regarding the potential application of the doctrine of equitable estoppel.
 
Plaintiff’s claims against Defendants are not time barred.
 
Defendants argue Plaintiff’s claims are barred because
Plaintiff served Defendants more than three years after Plaintiff filed its
initial complaint. “The summons and complaint shall be served upon a defendant
within three years after the action is commenced against the defendant. For the
purpose of this subdivision, an action is commenced at the time the complaint
is filed.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 583.210, subd. (a).) This time bar does not
apply if the defendant enters a stipulation or does another act that
constitutes a general appearance in the action. (Id., § 583.220.) A
general appearance does not include the entering of a stipulation extending the
time for service, a motion to dismiss made pursuant to this chapter, or an
extension of time to plead after filing a motion to dismiss. (Ibid.) If
service is not made within the time prescribed, the action shall not be further
prosecuted, and it shall be dismissed by the Court. (Id., § 583.250.)
Because Defendants were served more than three years after Plaintiff filed its
complaint, Defendants have met their burden of demonstrating that there is a
complete defense to all causes of action. The burden shifts to Plaintiff to
show the existence of a triable issue of material fact.
 
First, Plaintiff argues that Defendants may not seek
dismissal pursuant to section 583.250 because they have already entered a
general appearance in the present action. However, Defendants’ appearance in
the action occurred after the three-year limitations period had already
expired. “To prevent dismissal, any claimed general appearance must have
occurred within the mandatory three-year period. An appearance made thereafter
does not deprive a defendant of his right to dismissal.” (Brookview
Condominium Owners’ Assn. v. Heltzer Enterprizes-Brookview (1990) 218
Cal.App.3d 502, 509 (Brookview).) Because Defendants did not participate
in the present action until after being served, more than three years after
Plaintiff filed its complaint, the exception in section 583.220 does not apply.
Plaintiff’s argument regarding waiver fails under Brookview as well.
There, the Court found dismissal appropriate even after the defendant
participated in litigation for eight months, because the initial service
occurred after the three-year period and defendant did not make a general
appearance within those three years. (Ibid.) Thus, Plaintiff’s arguments
regarding section 583.220 and waiver are without merit.
 
Second, Plaintiff argues that the doctrine of equitable
estoppel applies. “[A] defendant may be equitably estopped from asserting the
statute of limitations when, as the result of intentional concealment, the
plaintiff is unable to discover the defendant’s actual identity.” (Bernson
v. Browning-Ferris Industries (1994) 7 Cal.4th 926, 936 (Bernson).) Tolling
only occurs “until such time that the plaintiff knows, or through the exercise
of reasonable diligence should have discovered, the defendant’s identity.” (Ibid.)
Lack of knowledge, by itself, is not sufficient to toll the statute: “a
plaintiff may not disregard reasonably available avenues of inquiry which, if
vigorously pursued, might yield the desired information.” (Ibid.)  And C.C.P. section 583.140 states that
“[n]othing in this chapter abrogates or otherwise affects the principles of
waiver and estoppel.”
 
Here, a triable issue of material fact exists as to whether
the doctrine of equitable estoppel applies, as Plaintiff presents multiple
instances of potential concealment by Defendants. In response to an
interrogatory from May 2021 seeking the identity of her current and former
employers, Mary Giebel failed to mention Defendants. (Bhakta Decl. ¶ 9, Ex. B.)
Additionally, special interrogatories propounded by Plaintiff seeking the
identity of persons responsible for certain acts failed to identify Defendants,
despite them employing some individuals listed in the discovery responses. (Id.,
Ex. C.) Another party in the present action previously identified employees of
Defendants as persons most knowledgeable in response Plaintiff’s deposition
notice, without identifying Defendants. (Id., Ex. E.) While tolling may not
extend past August 16, 2022, when Defendants were revealed to Plaintiff through
the production of an organizational chart (Emdee Decl. ¶ 6), tolling up until
this point would defeat Defendants’ defense under section 583.250. 
 
Taken together, Plaintiff’s evidence creates a triable issue
of material fact regarding Defendants’ defense under section 583.250, in that the
doctrine of equitable estoppel may have acted to extend Plaintiff’s window of
service into 2025. Thus, Plaintiff has met its burden to show the existence of
a triable issue of material fact. Accordingly, Defendants’ motion for summary
judgment is denied.
 