 Case Number:  22STCV14421    Hearing Date:   January 9, 2025    Dept:  30 Calendar # 10
Date: 1/9/2025
Case Name: GWENDA
PEREZ vs GK MANAGEMENT CO. INC.
Case # 22STCV14421
 
MOTION FOR A PROTECTIVE ORDER
 
            Plaintiff Gwenda
Perez (Plaintiff) moves for a protective order limiting the subpoena served by GK
Management Co. Inc. and Dolphin Marina Ltd.’s (Defendants) upon third party
Orlando Health, Inc. (Orlando). The motion for a protective order is granted.
Sanctions are not awarded.
 
A.   
Legal Standard
Code of Civil Procedure section 2031.060 provides that
“[t]he court, for good cause shown, may make any order that justice
requires to protect any party or other person from unwarranted annoyance,
embarrassment, or oppression, or undue burden and expense.” (Code Civ. Proc., §
2031.060, subd. (b).) The motion “shall be accompanied by a meet and confer
declaration under Section 2016.040.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.060, subd.
(b)(5).)  
Code of Civil Procedure section 2017.020, subd. (a),
provides that “[t]he
court shall limit the scope of discovery if it determines that the burden,
expense, intrusiveness of that discovery clearly outweighs the likelihood that
the information sought will lead to the discovery of admissible evidence.”
The court shall restrict the frequency or extent of the use
of a discovery method if it determines either of the following: 
1.       The discovery sought is unreasonably cumulative or duplicative, or is obtainable from some other source that is more
convenient, less burdensome, or less expensive.¿ 
2.       The selected method of discovery is unduly burdensome or
expensive, taking into account the needs of the case, the amount in controversy, and the
importance of the issues at stake in the litigation.¿¿ 
(Code Civ. Proc.,¿§ 2019.030, subd. (a).)
“For discovery purposes, information is
relevant if it ‘might reasonably assist a party in evaluating the case,
preparing for trial, or facilitating settlement.’
[Citation]. Admissibility is not the test and information, unless
privileged, is discoverable if it might reasonably lead to admissible evidence.
[Citation] These rules are applied liberally in favor of discovery.” (Gonzales
v. Superior Court (1995) 33 Cal.App.4th 1539, 1546.) 
 
B.    
Discussion 
 
During the deposition of Plaintiff
on June 4 and 5, 2024, Defendants learned of her hospitalization in Florida in
2018 where she received treatment for injuries that allegedly occurred because
of her residency at Defendants’ apartments. (O’Brien Decl. ¶ 6.) Defendants
served a subpoena on that hospital, Orlando, seeking records related to that
hospitalization on November 11, 2024. (Id. ¶ 7.) Regarding meet and
confer efforts, Plaintiff’s counsel allegedly contacted Defendants’ counsel on November
18, December 4, and December 5, receiving no response. (Spelger Decl. ¶¶ 6–8.)
Defendants’ counsel allegedly contacted Plaintiff’s counsel on December 4 and
December 9, and the parties were unable to reach a resolution. (O’Brien Decl. ¶
9, Exs. D–G.) The Court deems such efforts between the parties sufficient, while
questioning Plaintiff’s counsel’s assertion that Defendants failed to confer
given the proffered evidence of communications between the parties.
 
            Plaintiff
moves for a protective order limiting Defendants’ subpoena to Orlando. The
present dispute appears to be caused by miscommunication between the parties
regarding the scope of Defendants’ subpoena. Defendants’ subpoena requests that
Orlando produce: (1) all communications between it and Plaintiff; (2) all
medical records related to Plaintiff; (3) all invoices and payment records
regarding services performed on behalf of Plaintiff; and (4) all communications
with any other medical professionals related to Plaintiff. (Spelger Decl., Ex.
1.) Plaintiff contends that such a production demand encompasses her entire
lifetime of medical records. However, given that Plaintiff only received
treatment at Orlando for a few days according to her testimony, the only
records Orlando likely would have in its possession would relate to those few
days. 
 
            Plaintiff
argues that Defendants’ subpoena is overly broad because it seeks Plaintiff’s
entire medical and psychological records and is unlimited in scope and time. As
discussed above, the Court finds that the subpoena is temporally limited
because of Plaintiff’s brief visit to Orlando and limited in scope because Orlando
would presumably only possess records from that single visit. The documents
sought by Defendants are directly related to Plaintiff’s claims because she
contends that the treatment she received at Orlando related to injuries she
sustained from Defendants’ conduct. (O’Brien Decl., Ex. C.) Further, Plaintiff
has put at issue many different medical issues via her responses to Defendants’
form interrogatories. Thus, the Court does not endorse Plaintiff’s attempt to
limit the subpoena to records concerning respiratory illness only.
 
            Effectively,
Defendants do not oppose a protective order limiting production of documents by
Orlando to those relating to Plaintiff’s visit in 2018, as they contend that
the subpoena only covers those documents anyway. Such an order would serve as a
clarification if Orlando somehow had possession of the entirety of Plaintiff’s
medical records. Accordingly, Plaintiff’s motion for such a protective order is
granted. The Court need not address the parties’ other arguments.
 
Both parties request sanctions.
“The court shall impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010) against any party, person, or attorney who
unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion for a protective order, unless it
finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification
or that other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.” (Code
Civ. Proc. § 2019.030, subd. (c).) The Court is not inclined to award sanctions
against Defendants because they explained the limited scope of the subpoena during
the meet and confer process in which Plaintiff’s counsel seemingly did not
participate. (Spelger Decl. ¶¶ 7–9.) Thus, the Court finds that Defendants
acted with substantial justification in opposing the present motion given the subpoena’s
context, and sanctions are not warranted. 
 
 
Conclusion:
 
            The motion for a protective order
limiting the production of documents to those directly concerning Plaintiff’s
visit to Orlando Health, Inc. in 2018 is granted. Sanctions are not awarded.
 
 
 