 Case Number:  23LBCV02205    Hearing Date:   August 1, 2024    Dept:  S25 Plaintiff Norma Gonzalez’s Motion for an Order Deeming Truth of Matter in Plaintiff’s Requests for Admission, Set One, AdmittedProcedural BackgroundOn November 17, 2023, Plaintiff filed a complaint against Defendants Mercedes-Benz USA, LLC and Does 1 to 50, alleging violations of the Song-Beverely Consumer Warranty Act (“SBA”), the breach of express written warranty and the breach of the implied warranty of merchantability. Plaintiffs allege that on or about December 8, 2022, a warranty contract was entered into with Defendant regarding a leased 2022 Mercedes-Benz C-Class, VIN No. W1KAF4GB8PR072691 (“Subject Vehicle”). (Compl., ¶¶ 6-10.) Plaintiff asserts that despite this warranty, Defendant did not offer to repurchase or replace the Subject Vehicle when the defects and nonconformities manifested during the warranty window for the Subject Vehicle. (Compl., ¶¶ 11-15.) On December 26, 2023, Defendant filed an answer.On May 29, 2024, Plaintiff filed a motion for an order deeming truth of matter in Plaintiff’s Requests for Admission, Set One, admitted. On July 24, 2024, Defendant filed an opposition. On July 25, 2024, Plaintiff filed a reply.Parties’ ArgumentsPlaintiff moves the Court for an order deeming truth of matter in Plaintiff’s Requests for Admission, Set One, admitted. Plaintiff states written discovery requests, including Requests for Admission, Set One, were served on Defendant on March 22, 2024; however, Defendant failed to provide responses. (Yousef Decl., ¶¶ 5-6, Ex. 2.) Plaintiff also asserts that, even though Plaintiff had no meet and confer requirements, Plaintiff sent emails in attempt to meet and confer about the written discovery on May 1, 3, and 9, 2024. (Id. at ¶ 7.) Plaintiff has not asked for sanctions.In opposition, Defendant contends that the subject written discovery requests were not properly served. Specifically, Defendant states that Plaintiff’s Requests for Admission, Set One, was not sent to the electronic service address, MBUSA@clarkhill.com, that Defendant consented to receive service. (Hom Decl., ¶ 3, Ex. A.) Defendant further asserts that it had an agreement with Plaintiff that required Plaintiff to serve documents to MBUSA@clarkhill.com, not the individual email addresses of attorneys working at the Clark Hill law firm. (See Hom Decl., ¶¶ 4-5.) Also, Defendant points to a prior ruling by Judge Robert Broadbelt III in another lemon law case where service of requests for admission were defective because the requests for admission were not served to MBUSA@clarkhill.com and had only been served to attorneys at the Clark Hill law firm. (Hom Decl., ¶ 6, Ex. B [June 27, 2024, Notice of Ruling, Garcia v. MBUSA, et al, Los Angeles Superior Court no. 23 STCV29273].) Next, Defendant argues it is entitled to relief from waiver of objections because: (1) Plaintiff’s service was defective and (2) Defendant will serve substantially complaint responses to Plaintiff’s Requests for Admission, Set One. (See Code Civ. Proc., § 2033.280, subd. (a) [relief from waiver of objections granted so long as party has subsequently served a substantially complaint response and the party’s failure to serve a timely response was due to mistake, inadvertence or excusable neglect]; Hom Decl., ¶ 7.)In reply, Plaintiff argues that Defendant failed to explain why it ignored Plaintiff’s email demanding responses and why Defendant failed reach out to Plaintiff regarding the responses after receiving notice that Defendant’s discovery responses were late. Plaintiff contends Defendant has failed to prove that its failure to serve responses was the result of mistake, inadvertence, or inexcusable neglect. Plaintiff asks for objection-less responses.Tentative RulingAs evidenced by the summary of the parties’ arguments, there appears to be, at a minimum, a lack of communication between the parties regarding service and response. In its opposition, Defendant indicated it would provide code-compliant responses to the request for admissions prior to the hearing. If Defendant has not provided substantially code-compliant responses by the hearing, it is ordered to do so no later than 10 days from this order. The Court finds Defendant has not waived objection but failing to respond. Although monetary sanctions are mandatory for motions to deem requests for admission admitted, here Plaintiff has not made any monetary sanctions request. Because Plaintiff has not requested monetary sanctions, no sanctions will be granted.Plaintiff Norma Gonzalez’s Motion for an Order Compelling Defendant Mercedes-Benz USA, LLC to Provide Responses to Special Interrogatories, Set One, and Request for Monetary SanctionsProcedural BackgroundOn November 17, 2023, Plaintiff filed a complaint against Defendants Mercedes-Benz USA, LLC and Does 1 to 50, alleging violations of the Song-Beverely Consumer Warranty Act (“SBA”), the breach of express written warranty and the breach of the implied warranty of merchantability. Plaintiffs allege that on or about December 8, 2022, a warranty contract was entered into with Defendant regarding a leased 2022 Mercedes-Benz C-Class, VIN No. W1KAF4GB8PR072691 (“Subject Vehicle”). (Compl., ¶¶ 6-10.) Plaintiff asserts that despite this warranty, Defendant did not offer to repurchase or replace the Subject Vehicle when the defects and nonconformities manifested during the warranty window for the Subject Vehicle. (Compl., ¶¶ 11-15.) On December 26, 2023, Defendant filed an answer.On May 29, 2024, Plaintiff filed a motion for an order compelling Defendant to provide responses to Special interrogatories, Set One and request for sanctions. On July 24, 2024, Defendant filed an opposition. On July 25, 2024, Plaintiff filed a reply.Parties’ ArgumentsPlaintiff moves for an order compelling Defendant to provide complete and objection-less responses to Plaintiff’s written discovery requests. Plaintiff states written discovery requests, including Special Interrogatories, Set One, were served on Defendant on March 22, 2024; however, Defendant failed to provide responses. (Yousef Decl., ¶¶ 5-6, Ex. 3.) Plaintiff also asserts that, even though Plaintiff had no meet and confer requirements, Plaintiff sent emails in attempt to meet and confer about the written discovery on May 1, 3, and 9, 2024. (Id. at ¶ 7.) Moreover, Plaintiff argues that Defendant should pay Plaintiff $500 for each day following the 10-day compliance period that Defendant does not fully comply with the Court’s order, if such an order is granted.In opposition, Defendant contends that the subject written discovery requests were not properly served. Specifically, Defendant states that Plaintiff’s Special Interrogatories, Set One, was not sent to the electronic service address, MBUSA@clarkhill.com, that Defendant consented to receive service. (Hom Decl., ¶ 3, Ex. A.) Defendant further asserts that it had an agreement with Plaintiff that required Plaintiff to serve documents toMBUSA@clarkhill.com, not the individual email addresses of attorneys working at the Clark Hill law firm. (See Hom Decl., ¶¶ 4-5.) Also, Defendant points to a prior ruling by Judge Robert Broadbelt III in another lemon law case where service of requests for admission were defective because the requests for admission were not served to MBUSA@clarkhill.com and had only been served to attorneys at the Clark Hill law firm. (Hom Decl., ¶ 6, Ex. B [June 27, 2024, Notice of Ruling, Garcia v. MBUSA, et al, Los Angeles Superior Court no. 23 STCV29273].) Next, Defendant argues it is entitled to relief from waiver of objections because: (1) Plaintiff’s service was defective and (2) Defendant will serve substantially complaint responses to Plaintiff’s Special Interrogatories, Set One. (See Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.290, subd. (a) [relief from waiver of objections granted so long as party has subsequently served a substantially complaint response and the party’s failure to serve a timely response was due to mistake, inadvertence or excusable neglect]; Hom Decl., ¶ 7.)In reply, Plaintiff argues that Defendant failed to explain why it ignored Plaintiff’s email demanding responses and why Defendant failed reach out to Plaintiff regarding the responses after receiving notice that Defendant’s discovery responses were late. Plaintiff contends Defendant has failed to prove that its failure to serve responses was the result of mistake, inadvertence, or inexcusable neglect. Plaintiff asks for objection-less responses.Tentative RulingAs evidenced by the summary of the parties’ arguments, there appears to be, at a minimum, a lack of communication between the parties regarding service and response. In its opposition, Defendant indicated it would provide code-compliant responses before the hearing. If Defendant has not provided substantially code-compliant responses, it is ordered to do so no later than 10 days from this court’s order. The Court finds Defendant has not waived objection and declines to impose sanctions on Defendant currently.However, if there continue to be discovery disputes, the parties should be aware that court usually orders usually order that the plaintiff and defendant provide copies of the following documents, which are in their respective possession, custody and/or control, to the opposing side:1. A defendant shall produce the “Warranty Policy and Procedure Manual” published by Defendant and provided to its authorized repair facilities, within the State of California, for the period from the date of purchase to present.2. A defendant shall produce any internal analysis or investigation regarding defects alleged in plaintiff’s complaint in vehicles for the same year, make, and model of the subject vehicle. This includes Recall Notices and Technical Service Bulletins. A defendant is not required to do a search of emails.3. A defendant shall produce any customer complaints relating to defects alleged in plaintiff’s complaint (e.g. those complaints indicated by the plaintiff when subject vehicle is brought in for service) in any repair in vehicles purchased in California for the same year, make and model of the subject vehicle.4. A defendant shall produce all documents evidencing policies and procedures used to evaluate customer requests for repurchase pursuant to the Song-Beverly Consumer Warranty Act, from the date of purchase to present.5. Repair orders and invoices concerning the subject vehicle.6. Communications with dealer, factory representative and/or call center concerning the subject vehicle.7. Warranty claims submitted to and/or approved by Defendant concerning the subject vehicle.8. Purchase and/or lease contract concerning the subject vehicle.9. Repair orders and invoices concerning the subject vehicle.10. Any documents supporting plaintiff’s claim for incidental and/or consequential damage.