  Case Number:  20STCV45208    Hearing Date:   August 1, 2024    Dept:  S25 Procedural HistoryOn November 24, 2020, Plaintiff filed a complaint against Defendants Daniel Capen, M.D.; Philip Sobol, M.D.; Healthsmart Pacific, Inc. D/B/A Pacific Hospital of Long Beach; Michael D. Drobot; James L. Canedo; and Does 1 to 20 (“Defendants”).Plaintiff’s operative complaint is his Third Amended Complaint (“TAC”), which he filed on October 9, 2023. HealthSmart has been dismissed from the action, Capen has settled, and James L. Canedo has been added to the action. The TAC includes causes of action for medical negligence, medical battery, and fraud/intentional concealment.On March 12, 2024, the Court granted the motion for summary judgment of Defendant James Canedo (“Defendant Canedo”) and Defendant Michael Drobot as to the fraud/intentional concealment cause of action in the TAC and ordered the Judgment to be dismissed as to Defendant Canedo and Defendant Drobot. (See March 12, 2024 Minute Order; see also March 21, 2024 Judgments.)On June 10, 2024, this Court denied a joint stipulation to continue trial without prejudice because good cause was not established, stating the continuance would be discussed at the July 9, 2024 hearing. (June 10, 2024 Stipulation and Order.) On June 26, 2024, this Court continued the final status conference to September 6, 2024 and the jury trial to September 16, 2024 and kept the discovery cut off dates with the prior July 29, 2024 trial date. (June 26, 2024 Minute Order.)On June 20, 2024, Plaintiff filed the instant motion for order permitting discovery Defendant Philip Sobol, MD’s financial condition. On July 16, 2024, Defendant Sobol filed an opposition. On July 24, 2024, Plaintiff filed a reply.Legal StandardPretrial discovery of a defendant’s financial condition is generally not permitted. (Civ. Code, § 3295(c); Jabro v. Superior Court (2002) 95 Cal.App.4th 754, 756.) However, Civil Code section 3295(c) provides that “[u]pon motion by the plaintiff supported by appropriate affidavits and after a hearing, if the court deems a hearing to be necessary, the court may at any time enter an order permitting the discovery otherwise prohibited by this subdivision if the court finds, on the basis of the supporting and opposing affidavits presented, that the plaintiff has established that there is a substantial probability that the plaintiff will prevail on the claim pursuant to Section 3294.” (Civ. Code, § 3295(c).) “Such order shall not be considered to be a determination on the merits of the claim or any defense thereto and shall not be given in evidence or referred to at the trial.” (Ibid.)“[B]efore a court may enter an order permitting discovery of a defendant’s financial condition, it must (1) weigh the evidence submitted in favor of and in opposition to motion for discovery, and (2) make a finding that it is very likely the plaintiff will prevail on his claim for punitive damages.” (Jabro, supra, 95 Cal.App.4th at 758.)Civil Code section 3294 authorizes the recovery of punitive damages in non-contract cases where “the defendant has been guilty of oppression, fraud, or malice . . . .” (Civ. Code § 3294(a).) “‘Malice’ means conduct which is intended by the defendant to cause injury to the plaintiff or despicable conduct which is carried on by the defendant with a willful and conscious disregard of the rights or safety of others.” (Id., § 3294(c)(1).) “‘Oppression’ means despicable conduct that subjects a person to cruel and unjust hardship in conscious disregard of that person’s rights.” (Id., § 3294(c)(2).) “‘Fraud’ means an intentional misrepresentation, deceit, or concealment of a material fact known to the defendant with the intention on the part of the defendant of thereby depriving a person of property or legal rights or otherwise causing injury.” (Id., § 3294(c)(3).) A plaintiff must establish the defendant was aware of the probable dangerous consequences of his conduct and that he willfully and deliberately failed to avoid those consequences to support an award of punitive damages based on conscious disregard of the safety of others. (Penner v. Falk (1984) 153 Cal.App.3d 858, 867.)Parties’ ArgumentsPlaintiff moves for an order permitting discovery of Defendant Sobol’s financial condition.Before a trial court may enter an order allowing discovery of financial condition information, the court must: (1) weigh the evidence presented by both sides; and (2) make a finding that it is very likely the plaintiff will prevail on his claim for punitive damages. (Civ. Code, § 3295, subd. (c); Jabro, supra, 95 Cal.App.4th at p. 755.) Punitive damages may be imposed on conduct that is malicious, oppressive, or fraudulent. (Civ. Code, § 3294, subd. (a).)Plaintiff refers to the December 1, 2022 Minute Order which determined that there was a substantial probability that Plaintiff would prevail on his punitive damages claim against Defendant Sobol. (Dember 1, 2022 Minute Order p. 4.) Also, Plaintiff argues that Defendant Sobol acted with oppression and malice by fraudulently recommending andreferring Plaintiff for lumbar fusion surgery to profit from a kickback scheme; Plaintiff references Defendant Sobol’s plea agreement as well as Plaintiff’s medical records as evidence in support of Plaintiff’s punitive damages claim. (See Green Decl., Ex. B [Plaintiff’s Medical Records], Ex. F [Medical Board of California, Department of Consumer Affairs, State of California Decision Case No. 8002016020311 August 18, 2017 re Defendant Sobol] ¶ 9.)In opposition, Defendant Sobol argues that the instant motion should be denied because: (1) Plaintiff will probably not succeed on its punitive damages claim against Defendant Sobol; (2) the discovery cut-off date has passed; (3) the instant motion was untimely filed; and (4) allowing this untimely-filed motion to be granted would prejudice Defendant Sobol.First, Defendant Sobol contends that Judge Mark C. Kim relied on erroneous facts when ruling that there was a substantial probability of Plaintiff’s success on the punitive damages claim. (See Opposition Papers, Ex. 1 [December 1, 2022 Minute Order] p. 4.) Specifically, the Court stated “[t]he records relate to Defendant’s fraudulent conduct in connection with the very same medical device that he implanted into Plaintiff and that is the subject of Plaintiff’s fraud claims. This is sufficient to meet the ‘clear and convincing’ standard re: fraud.” (Ibid.) Defendant Sobol provides evidence that Defendant Sobol did not implant the device and did not recommend the surgical procedure; rather Defendant Sobol only referred Plaintiff to Dr. Capen for surgical consultation. (See Opposition Papers, Ex. 2 [Deposition of Jack Brown] 13:5-13 [Plaintiff stating Defendant Sobol did not participate in the surgery]; 20:2-8 [Plaintiff admitting Defendant Sobol did not recommend any surgery and only referred Plaintiff to Dr. Capen]; 24:5-7 [Plaintiff not having any issues or complaints about medical care provided to Plaintiff by Defendant Sobol]; 24:15-17 [Plaintiff asserting Defendant Sobol did not recommend or mention Pacific Hospital to Plaintiff]; 32:7-23 [Plaintiff confirming that Defendant Sobol did not play a role in selecting surgical procedure and surgical equipment.])Next, Defendant Sobol states that Plaintiff failed to properly and timely conduct discovery. Defendant Sobol points to the December 1, 2022 ruling happening over a year and half prior to this instant motion. Defendant Sobol also references the discovery window closing based on the July 29, 2024 trial date. (See Code Civ. Proc., § 2024.020 [complete discovery proceeding by June 29, 2024—30th day—and motion concerning discovery heard by July 14, 2024—15th day before date of trial].) Defendant Sobol also contends that Plaintiff lacked diligence in filing the instant motion and if discovery is reopened it would prejudice Defendant Sobol and affect the calendar, along with the presently set trial date. (See Code Civ. Proc., § 2024.050 [factors to reopen discovery: (1) necessity for discovery, (2) diligence or lack thereof by party requesting reopening of discovery, (3) likelihood discovery or hearing discovery motion would prevent case from going to trial on date set, interfere with calendar or prejudice any other party, (4) length of time elapsed from date previously set and date presently set for trial.])Alternatively, Defendant Sobol reasons that the Court should limit discovery of financial information to Plaintiff’s counsel and not Plaintiff. (Richards v. Superior Court (1978) 86 Cal.App.3d 265, 272 [holding that a party, when compelled in civil discovery to reveal financial information for a Plaintiff’s punitive damages claim, is presumptively entitled to limit discovery of financial information to that the discovery party’s counsel and may be used only for the purposes of the lawsuit.])In reply, Plaintiff reiterates his earlier arguments. Plaintiff asserts he reserved his motion hearing date on June 18, 2024 for the first available date of hearing, August 1, 2024. Plaintiff also states that the Court may at any time enter an order permitting discovery of financial information so long as there is a substantial probability of Plaintiff prevailing on the punitive damages claim. (See Civ. Code, § 3295.) Plaintiff also claims that if the Court grants the instant motion, then Defendant Sobol can limit the scope of the discovery of the Defendant Sobol’s financial condition by filing a motion for protective order, which Defendant Sobol has not yet done procedurally.Tentative RulingThe Court appreciates Defendant Sobol’s argument that the instant motion is untimely and should have been brought earlier in this case. That said, if Plaintiff had sought ex parte relief to hear this motion prior to July 14, the Court would have granted that request and advanced the hearing date. Regardless, this motion is being heard less than three weeks after the July 14 cut off date and several weeks before the trial. The prejudice to defendant is minimal as Defendant Sobel was aware Plaintiff has been seeking punitive damages and, eventually, such information would be sought. For these reasons, the Court will consider the motion on its merits.“[B]efore a court may enter an order permitting discovery of a defendant’s financial condition, it must (1) weigh the evidence submitted in favor of and in opposition to motion for discovery, and (2) make a finding that it is very likely the plaintiff will prevail on his claim for punitive damages.” (Jabro, supra, 95 Cal.App.4th at 758.) There are disputed facts and potentially conflicting testimony, thus, the jury will ultimately determine Defendant Sobol’s liability, if any. However, for purposes for this motion, after weighting the evidence presented in the supporting and opposing affidavits presented and based upon the facts put forth by Plaintiff, Plaintiff has established that there is a substantial probability that he will prevail on the punitive damage claim pursuant to Section 3294. Specifically, there is evidence that Defendant Sobol ordered X-rays, CT and MRI scans of Plaintiff’s lumbar spine. Based on the radiologist’s report Defendant Sobol allegedly “knew” Plaintiff did not need spinal surgery but still referred Plaintiff to Dr. Capen of Pacific Hospital. (Green Decl., Ex. M.) Moreover, there is evidence that Defendant Sobol signed a plea agreement admitting to conspiring with Defendant Drobot and others working for Pacific Hospital, receiving monetary kickbacks in exchange for referring patients to Pacific Hospital for surgical services paid for by the California Worker’s Compensation System. (Green Decl., Ex. L, p. 13.) Although Defendant Sobol points to Plaintiff’s deposition to argue that Defendant Sobol played no other role aside from referring Plaintiff to Dr. Capen and Pacific Hospital, Plaintiff clarifies in each response that he is only answering to the best of his knowledge; Plaintiff’s testimony does not speak to what was going on behind the scenes between Defendant Sobol, Dr. Capen, Pacific Hospital and other co-conspirators as to Plaintiff’s referral to Dr. Capen of Pacific Hospital.Accordingly, the instant motion is GRANTED, however, disclosure of Defendant Sobol’s financial information is limited to Plaintiff’s counsel only. (Richards v. Superior Court (1978) 86 Cal.App.3d 265, 272; Moskowitz v. Sup. Ct. (1982) 137 Cal.App.3d 313, 318.