 Case Number:  23STCV00908    Hearing Date:   September 18, 2023    Dept:  68 Motion for Leave to File First Amended Complaint

Parvis Shavalian, et al. vs. Ramin
Kohanim, et al.; 23STCV00908
Moving Party: Plaintiffs Parvis
Shavalian, Ilanit Shavalian, Ilan Shavalian, and Kourosh Shavalian

            [This
is an unopposed motion seeking leave to file a First Amended Complaint.  The action was filed January 12, 2023.  Trial is set for July 2024.  Plaintiff’s counsel correctly sought a
stipulation allowing the filing of the First Amended Complaint.  But he received no response.  Hence this motion.  And the filing of the motion received no
response either.  It is unfortunate that
it was necessary for this unopposed motion to be filed, burdening Plaintiff and
the Court with what appears to be an unnecessary use of time and resources.  Parties are encouraged to behave in a manner
that does not place unnecessary burdens on the parties and the Court]
BACKGROUND
Plaintiffs filed this action
on January 12, 2023. Plaintiff claims that he has learned additional
information in discovery that require that he amend and assert additional facts
and claims.  Plaintiff brings this motion
pursuant to CCP § 473(a)(1). The trial is set for July 22, 2024. No opposition
to Plaintiffs’ motion has been filed. Plaintiffs’ counsel indicated that he sought
a stipulation regarding amending the complaint, but never heard anything back
from Defendants. Hence this unopposed motion.
LEGAL
STANDARD AND ANALYSIS
This court is authorized, in
its discretion, to “allow, upon any terms as may be just, an amendment to any
pleading or proceeding in other particulars . . .” (CCP § 473(a)(1).) Code of
Civil Procedure § 576, likewise, provides that “any judge, at any time before
or after commencement of trial, in the furtherance of justice, and upon such
terms as may be proper, may allow the amendment to any pleading . . .” (CCP §
576.) The determination of whether to grant leave to file an amended pleading
rests in the court’s sound discretion.
Leave to amend is to be
liberally granted at any stage in the proceedings, up to and including trial. (Magpali
v. Farmers Group, Inc. (1986) 48 Cal.App.4th 471, 487; see also County
of Sanitation Dist. No. 2 of Los Angeles County v. Kern County (2005) 127
Cal.App.4th 1544, 1618 (noting that a plaintiff may be granted amendment even
at the time of trial).) To overcome the policy of liberally granting amendments
at any stage of litigation, a defendant must show both actual prejudice and
inexcusable delay. (Magpali, 48 Cal.App.4th at 487.)
In this case, Plaintiff
requested leave to amend after learning new information through discovery.
Trial is still over ten months away. Defendants would not be prejudiced by
allowing Plaintiffs to file an amended complaint at this stage of the case.
Additionally, none of the defendants have filed any opposition to Plaintiffs’ motion.
The Court grants Plaintiffs’ motion
for leave to file a first amended complaint.
ORDER
1.     
Plaintiffs’ motion for leave to file a first
amended complaint is GRANTED.