  Case Number:  23STCV08352    Hearing Date:   October 27, 2023    Dept:  40 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
Department 40
 



DIANA VILLAGOMEZ, an individual,
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
VICTORY PROFESSIONAL PRODUCTS, INC., a California corporation;
  and DOES 1 through 50, Inclusive,
                        Defendants.


 Case No.:          23STCV08352
 Hearing Date:   10/27/23
 Trial Date:        N/A
 [TENTATIVE] RULING RE:
Defendant Victory Professional Products, Inc.’s Motion to Transfer Venue, and Request
  for Sanctions.



 
Background
Plaintiff Diana Villagomez sues
Defendants Victory Professional Products, Inc. (Victory Products) and Does 1
through 50 pursuant to a July 19, 2023 First Amended Complaint (FAC) alleging
claims of (1) Pregnancy Discrimination (Govt. Code § 12940, et seq.), (2)
Interference in Violation of Pregnancy Disability Leave Law (Govt. Code §
12940, et seq.), (3) Disability Discrimination (Govt. Code § 12940, et seq.),
(4) Retaliation (Govt. Code § 12940(h)), (5) Failure to Accommodate (Gov. Code
§ 12940(m)), (6) Failure to Engage in the Interactive Process (Govt. Code §
12940(n)), (7) Retaliation (Labor Code § 1102.5 et seq.), (8) Failure to
Investigate and Prevent Discrimination and Retaliation (Govt. Code § 12940(k)),
and (9) Wrongful Termination in Violation of Public Policy.
The claims arise from allegations
that in her employment with Victory Products, Plaintiff Villagomez was
subjected to conduct amounting to various Fair Employment and Housing Act (FEHA)
and Labor Code violations and to wrongful termination.
On August 3, 2023, Victory Products
moved to transfer venue from Los Angeles County, California to Orange County,
California. The motion also seeks an award of attorney’s fees and costs in
connection with transfer of venue.
On October 16, 2023, Plaintiff
opposed the motion and requested monetary sanctions against Victory Products.
On October 20, 2023, Victory
Products replied to the opposition.
Victory Products’ motion is now
before the Court.
 
Motion to Change Venue
Legal
Standard
The
venue where the plaintiff’s original complaint is filed is presumed to be the
proper place for trial. (Mission Imps., Inc. v. Superior Court (1982) 31
Cal.3d 921, 929; Black Diamond Asphalt, Inc. v. Superior Court (2003)
109 Cal.App.4th 166, 170.) A court may be proper, for example, if it is in the
county in which the defendant resides, in which the plaintiff was injured, or
in which the parties’ contract was executed. (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 395, subd.
(a), 395, subd. (b).)
If
the plaintiff files an action with an improper court, that court must transfer
the action to a proper court, either upon the defendant’s motion or on its own
motion. (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 396a, subd. (b), 396b.) The defendant bears the
burden of raising improper venue to the court’s attention. (See Mission
Imps., Inc. v. Superior Court, supra, at p. 929.) An improper court
may nonetheless adjudicate an action if it has subject matter jurisdiction
unless the defendant objects. (Code Civ. Proc., § 396b, subd. (a).) Even where
the defendant objects, the court may retain the action “if it appears that the
convenience of the witnesses or the ends of justice will thereby be promoted.” (Code
Civ. Proc., § 396b, subd. (d).)
As
traditionally classified with respect to venue or place of trial, “[a]ctions
are deemed transitory where the transactions upon which they are founded might
have taken place anywhere, but are local when their cause is in its nature
essentially local.” (Ophir Silver Min. Co. v. Sup. Ct. of City and Cty. of
San Francisco (1905) 147 Cal. 467, 473, quoting Livingston v. Jefferson
(1811) 4 Hughes 606, 664.) “To determine whether an action is local or
transitory, [California] court[s] look[] to the ‘main relief’ sought. Where the
main relief sought is personal, the action is transitory. Where the main relief
relates to rights in real property, the action is local.” (Brown v. Superior
Court (1984) 37 Cal.3d 477, 482.) A proper venue for transitory actions is
where the defendants or some of them reside at the commencement of the action,
except as otherwise provided by law and subject to the power of the Court to
transfer actions or proceedings. (Code of Civil Procedure § 395, subd. (a).)
Here,
there are at least two causes of action that are not brought under the FEHA
(the 7th for Retaliation under Labor Code section 1102.5 and 9th for wrongful
termination in violation of public policy.) The Supreme Court has held that the
“special provisions of the FEHA venue statute control in cases involving FEHA
claims joined with non-FEHA claims arising from the same facts.” (Brown v.
Superior Court (1984) 37 Cal.3d 477, 487.) Thus, the FEHA venue statute
controls the entire action and section 395 does not apply. (Ibid.) 
Generally,
when venue is proper in more than one county, a plaintiff has the choice of
where to file the action from among the available options. (Battaglia
Enterprises, Inc. v. Superior Court (2013) 215 Cal.App.4th 309, 313.)
Order
Transferring Venue: DENIED.
In
its motion, Victory Products argues that the proper venue lies in Orange County
for two reasons. The first reason is that this is a transitory action (action
for personal relief) and thus, venue lies where Victory Products resides, which
is Orange County. The second reason is that, pursuant to the venue statute for
FEHA claims—Government Code section 12965, subdivision (c)(3)—FEHA claims may
be brought i) in any county in the state in which the unlawful practice is
alleged to have been committed, ii) in the county in which the records relevant
to the practice are maintained and administered, or iii) in the county in which
the aggrieved person would have worked but for the alleged unlawful
practice. 
Victory
Products argues that this action should be heard in Orange County pursuant to
the FEHA venue statute because seven of Plaintiff’s nine claims involve the
FEHA, any unlawful activity in this action occurred in Orange County, all
records are maintained and administered in Orange County, and Plaintiff physically
worked in person in Orange County and did not work remotely. 
Victory
Products also cites Malloy v. Superior Court (2022) 83 Cal.App.5th 543,
544 [the actual pin cite is at p. 554] (Malloy) for the purpose of
arguing that the proper FEHA venue is not determined by the employee’s location
at the time the employee received a termination email. (Mot., pp. 4-5, 5-6; see
Mot., McKay Decl., ¶¶ 2-7.)  
In
opposition, Plaintiff argues that venue is proper in Los Angeles County for
various reasons. First, Plaintiff argues that Victory Products misconstrues Malloy,
which created a carve out from the above holding by specifying that a pregnancy
disability leave law (PDLL) claim under Government Code section 12945.2—like the
one alleged as the second cause of action in the FAC—involves an interference
with rights in the county in which the employee was residing while on pregnancy
leave. To support this argument, Plaintiff cites Malloy, supra, 83
Cal.App.5th at p. 555 [“Malloy was on leave at her home in Los Angeles County,
where she had been working on March 3, 2021, when real parties in early April
demanded she immediately return to work in person in Orange County and fired
her when she said she could not”].)
Second,
Plaintiff argues that granting Victory Products’ motion would defeat the
legislative purpose behind the FEHA venue statute. Plaintiff argues that
transferring venue would impose financial barriers on Plaintiff’s ability to
conduct this litigation and would deter Plaintiff’s counsel from representation
in this matter, undercutting the purposes of the FEHA venue statute. 
Third,
Plaintiff argues that Victory Products has waived venue in Orange County by
making and attempting to enforce discovery requests—e.g., deposition notice,
and requests for production—before a final determination on this motion.
Plaintiff relies exclusively on federal case law for this purpose. (Opp’n, pp.
6-11.) 
In
reply, Victory Products argues that the three sources for venue alleged in the
FAC—the Code of Civil Procedure, the FEHA venue statute, and Malloy—all
point against venue in Los Angeles County. Victory Products also argues that
Plaintiff misinterprets Malloy by ignoring the fact that the plaintiff
in Malloy worked remotely from home, which differs from the facts here,
where Plaintiff worked in Orange County alone. Last, Victory Products argues
that the waiver position advanced by Plaintiff is erroneous because a motion to
transfer venue only suspends a court’s jurisdiction, not a party’s right to
conduct discovery, citing to the Rutter Guide for this proposition. (Reply, pp.
3-7.)
The
Court finds in favor of Plaintiff.
Both
parties agree that the recent decision in Malloy is determinative, and
both sides make reasonable arguments. However, the Court is ultimately convinced
that the court of appeal in Malloy had two bases for concluding
that venue was proper in Los Angeles County, whereas in the instant case, the
Plaintiff has only one, but it is a sufficient basis to withstand the motion to
change venue. 
Specifically,
the Court in Malloy noted in Section 3 of its “Discussion” that: “Venue Was
Proper in Los Angeles County.” (Malloy, supra,  83 Cal.App.5th at p. 552.) The Court
thereafter laid out two independent bases: “a. Real parties interfered with
Malloy’s leave rights in Los Angeles County” and “b. Malloy would have continued
to work in Los Angeles County but for the unlawful employment practices.” (Id.
at pp. 554-556.) Most of the language pointed out by Defendant for its
contention that the case is distinguishable because plaintiff in that case was working
from home prior to going out on leave, arises during the discussion of the second
basis for finding venue in Los Angeles, starting on page 556. The Court agrees with
Defendant that this case is distinguishable as to the second basis, because
here, Plaintiff always worked in Orange County and, had she not been
terminated, would have gone back to work in Orange County. Thus, the second argument
that venue is proper in “the county in which the aggrieved person would have
worked but for the alleged unlawful practice” is inapplicable here.
However,
Malloy separately held in the first portion of its discussion (3.a) on
venue that plaintiff’s claim for interference with her pregnancy leave rights
was properly filed in Los Angeles. The relevant portion of Malloy reads:
“Malloy’s cause of action for interference with her PDLL rights, however,
stands on a different ground. As discussed, section 12945, subdivision (a)(4),
makes it an unlawful employment practice for an employer ‘to interfere with’ an
employee’s exercise of, or attempt to exercise, her right to pregnancy
disability leave. Here, because of a pregnancy-related medical condition,
Malloy’s doctor on March 3, 2021 ordered her not to work from that date through
May 9, 2021, approximately six weeks after her scheduled due date. Malloy was
on leave at her home in Los Angeles County, where she had been working on
March 3, 2021, when real parties in early April demanded she immediately
return to work in person in Orange County and fired her when she said she could
not.” (Malloy, supra, 83 Cal.App.5th at pp. 554-555, emphasis
added.)
It
is true that the Court includes the language “where she had been working on
March 3, 2021.” And it is true that here, Plaintiff never worked from home.
However, when reading the reasoning of that portion of the venue discussion, it
is clear that the Court does not rely on the fact that she had been working
from home. 
The
court of appeal explained: “ ‘Interfere’ means ‘to enter into or take a part in
the concerns of others’ or ‘to interpose in a way that hinders or impedes: come
into collision or be in opposition.’ [Citation.] Under the plain meaning of the
statutory language, therefore, real parties interfered with Malloy’s leave
rights in Los Angeles County, where they were being exercised, not in Orange
County. [Citations.] Construing the language of section 12945, subdivision (c)(3),
broadly to effectuate its purpose of ‘permitting venue in a county which
plaintiffs deem the most appropriate and convenient’ [citations], Malloy’s
cause of action for interference with her PDLL rights – and therefore, all her
causes of action arising from the same set of operative rights – was properly
filed in Los Angeles County.” (Malloy, supra, 83 Cal.App.5th at p.
555.) 
Nowhere
in the reasoning for that portion of the opinion is there anything about
the plaintiff’s having worked from home, and to the contrary, the explanation
focuses only on the definition of the term “interference” and with the location
where plaintiff was exercising her leave rights. 
Defendants
argue that this interpretation could lead to absurd results, such as if a
plaintiff chose to exercise her pregnancy leave in Bakersfield or Sacramento. (Reply
at p. 2.) The Court need not reach that issue because that is not this case. And
even if a future court were to interpret Malloy to include instances
where a plaintiff went far away to exercise her pregnancy leave, there are
other mechanisms to handle such an issue, such as a motion under Code of Civil
Procedure section 397 allowing a change of venue for the convenience of
witnesses and the ends of justice. Suffice it to say, we need not reach that
issue. In this case, Plaintiff was exercising her pregnancy leave where she
lived, in Los Angeles County.
Though
it need not reach the remaining argument by Plaintiff in light of this ruling,
the Court nevertheless would decline to find any waiver of Defendants’ right to
challenge venue even after pursuing discovery. First, the Court notes that
neither party points to on-point precedential authority one way or the other, citing
instead to cases regarding the filing of motions in court rather than
conducting discovery. In the absence of any precedent, the Court notes that the
Rutter Guide counsels that “[a]lthough the court’s jurisdiction is suspended
while a motion to transfer is pending, this should not affect a party’s right
to conduct discovery—so long as the discovery proceedings are self-executing ([where]
all are, except motions for medical examinations)” but where “a motion to
compel [cannot] not be heard until the court’s jurisdiction is restored.” (Edmon
& Karnow, Cal. Practice Guide: Civil Procedure Before Trial (The Rutter
Group 2023) ¶ 3:582.)
Victory
Products’ motion is therefore DENIED.
Sanctions:
DENIED.
In
its discretion, the court may order the payment to the prevailing party of
reasonable expenses and attorney’s fees incurred in making or resisting the
motion to transfer whether or not that party is otherwise entitled to recover
his or her costs of action. In determining whether that order for expenses and
fees shall be made, the court shall take into consideration (1) whether an
offer to stipulate to change of venue was reasonably made and rejected, and (2)
whether the motion or selection of venue was made in good faith given the facts
and law the party making the motion or selecting the venue knew or should have
known. As between the party and his or her attorney, those expenses and fees
shall be the personal liability of the attorney not chargeable to the party.
Sanctions shall not be imposed pursuant to this subdivision except on notice
contained in a party’s papers, or on the court’s own noticed motion, and after
opportunity to be heard. (Code Civ. Proc., § 396b, subd. (b).)
Both
parties argue that they are entitled to monetary sanctions pursuant to this
statute. (See Mot., pp. 7-8; Opp’n, pp. 11-13.)
The
Court exercises its statutory discretion to find that no sanctions should be
awarded in favor of either party.
The
parties both made non-frivolous arguments as to a proper interpretation of Malloy.
The Court happened to side with Plaintiff on that interpretation but does not
find that it was unreasonable for Defendant to argue its interpretation of Malloy.
Defendant’s motion for change of venue was in good faith, as was Plaintiff’s
opposition.
Sanctions
are thus DENIED as to both parties. 

Conclusion
Defendant Victory Professional Products,
Inc.’s Motion to Transfer Venue is DENIED.
The cross requests for sanctions
are DENIED.