 Case Number:  23STCV08063    Hearing Date:   July 18, 2024    Dept:  56  
 
 
SUPERIOR
COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR
THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



HICKS MEDIA,
  INC. a Texas Corporation, as successor to M&M MOMAR, INC., 
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
 
BIG TICKET PRODUCTIONS, INC.; PARAMOUNT
  PICTURES CORPORATION; CBS STUDIOS f/k/a CBS TELEVISION STUDIOS, a subsidiary
  of CBS ENTERTAINMENT GROUP, a division of VIACOMBCBS INC.; and DOES 1-50,
  inclusive, 
                                                                             
  
                        Defendants.                               





     
  CASE NO.: 23STCV08063
 
[PROPOSED] ORDER RE: 
DEMURRER TO SECOND AMENDED COMPLAINT 
 
Date: July 18, 2024
Time: 8:30 a.m.
Dept. 56
 
 



 
MOVING PARTY:  Defendants
RESPONDING PARTY: Plaintiff
Hicks Media, Inc.
 
            The Court has considered the moving,
opposition and reply papers. 
 
BACKGROUND
             On January 4, 2024, Plaintiff Hicks Media,
Inc., as successor to M&M Momar, Inc. (“Plaintiff”) filed its First Amended
Complaint (the “FAC”) against Defendants Big Ticket Productions, Inc.,
Paramount Pictures Corporation, CBS Studios f/k/a CBS Television Studios, a
subsidiary of CBS Entertainment Group, a division of ViacomCBS Inc., and DOES
1-50, inclusive for: (1) Breach of Written Contract; (2) Breach of the Implied
Covenant of Good Faith and Fair Dealing; (3) Intentional Interference With
Contract; and (4) Accounting. On March 19, 2024, this Court ruled on
Defendants’ demurer to the FAC and, among other things, sustained the demurrer
to the cause of action for breach of the implied covenant of good faith and
fair dealing on the ground that it failed to allege the elements of a separate
claim for breach of the implied covenant. 

 
            Plaintiffs have now filed the
operative Second Amended Complaint (the “SAC”). 
Initially, the Court notes that very few changes were made from the
pleading of the fraud cause of action in the FAC to its pleading in the SAC,
which is the subject of the current demurrer (the “Demurrer”).  Those changes are as follows:
 
1)    Footnote 2 of the
SAC (incorporated into the Fraud Cause of Action of the FAC as well as the SAC
by paragraph 29), which now adds to the previous footnote 2 in the FAC: “Upon
information and belief, Defendants delayed production of books and records and
did not provide full and accurate disclosure of documents and information to
ensure a good faith audit process in a prompt, timely and thorough manner.”
(FAC and SAC)
2)    In paragraph 33 of
the SAC, adds the words “allocating specific costs and expenses that should not
have been included” to subparagraph a;
3)    In subparagraph 33
b of the SAC, adds the words “and/or negotiate” and an apostrophe after the
word “Series;” 
4)    Substitutes the
words “Variously underreporting or overinflating [sic]” for the words “Failing
to substantiate the incurrence of costs and expenses” before the words “to
Plaintiff’s detriment” in subparagraph 33 c; and
5)    Adds the words “,
for example the UPN Series license that was well below industry standard, among
other transactions” in subparagraph 33 d.
 
            On May 10, 2024, Defendants filed the
Demurrer. On July 5, 2024, Plaintiff filed its opposition and on July 10, 2024,
Defendants filed their reply. 
 
MEET AND CONFER 
             The Court finds that the parties sufficiently
engaged in the meet and confer process. 
 
DISCUSSION
            “The primary function of a pleading
is to give the other party notice so that it may prepare its case [citation],
and a defect in a pleading that otherwise properly notifies a party cannot be
said to affect substantial rights.” (Harris v. City of Santa Monica
(2013) 56 Cal.4th 203, 240.)¿¿ 
 
“A¿demurrer¿tests
the legal sufficiency of the factual allegations in a complaint.” (Ivanoff
v. Bank of America, N.A.¿(2017) 9 Cal.App.5th 719, 725.) The Court looks to
whether “the complaint alleges facts sufficient to state a cause of action or
discloses a complete defense.” (Id.) The Court does not “read passages
from a complaint in isolation; in reviewing a ruling on a demurrer, we read the
complaint ‘as a whole and its parts in their context.’ [Citation.]” (West v.
JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. (2013) 214 Cal.App.4th 780, 804.) The Court
“assume[s] the truth of the properly pleaded factual allegations, facts that
reasonably can be inferred from those expressly pleaded and matters of which
judicial notice has been taken.” (Harris, supra, 56 Cal.4th p.
240.) “The court does not, however, assume the truth of contentions, deductions
or conclusions of law. [Citation.]” (Durell v. Sharp Healthcare (2010)
183 Cal.App.4th 1350, 1358.)¿¿ 
 
            A general demurrer may be brought
under Code of Civil Procedure Section 430.10, subdivision (e) if insufficient
facts are stated to support the cause of action asserted or under section 430.10,
subdivision (a), where the court has no jurisdiction of the subject of the
cause of action alleged in the pleading. All other grounds listed in Section
430.10, including uncertainty under subdivision (f), are special demurrers.
Special demurrers are not allowed in limited jurisdiction courts. (Code Civ.
Proc., § 92, subd. (c).)¿¿ 
 
            Leave to amend must be allowed where
there is a reasonable possibility of successful amendment. (Goodman v.
Kennedy (1976) 18 Cal.3d 335, 348.) The burden is on the complainant to
show the Court that a pleading can be amended successfully. (Id.)¿¿
 
Demurrer to FAC
            Defendants demur to
Plaintiff’s SAC on the ground that the second cause of action does not state
facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action for breach of the implied
covenant of good faith and fair dealing.
 
            “The [implied] covenant of good
faith and fair dealing [is] implied by law in every contract. The covenant is
read into contracts and functions ‘as a supplement to the express
contractual covenants, to prevent a contracting party from engaging in conduct
which (while not technically transgressing the express covenants) frustrates
the other party's rights to the benefits of the contract.’” (Thrifty
Payless, Inc. v. The Americana at Brand, LLC (2013) 218 Cal.App.4th 1230,
1244.) As such, “A breach of the implied covenant of good faith is a breach of
the contract.” (Id.) 
            
“Establishing
that claim requires a showing of “(1) the existence of the contract, (2)
plaintiff's performance or excuse for nonperformance, (3) defendant's breach,
and (4) the resulting damages to the plaintiff.” (D’Arrigo Bros. of
California v. United Farmworkers of America (2014) 224 Cal.App.4th 790,
800.) 
 
            Defendants argue that this claim
mirrors Plaintiff’s first cause of action for breach of contract and does not
state a viable independent duty that any of the Defendants allegedly violated.  Specifically, Defendants contend Plaintiff’s
breach of contract claim against Defendants BTP, Paramount and CBS is premised
on the general allegation that Defendants have breached the agreements by
failing to pay monies due to Plaintiff. (SAC, ¶ 27.)  Defendants contend that Plaintiff alleges that
Defendants breached the implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing by “unfairly
interfering with the Plaintiff’s right to receive the benefits of their
respective agreements” by failing to correctly credit/allocate and negotiate certain
revenues, expenses and costs, “underreporting or overinflating [something,
presumably costs];” and failing to accurately calculate/substantiate costs and
expenses. (Id. at ¶ 33.) As such, Defendants argue that both the breach
of contract and implied covenant causes of action are based upon whether
Defendants made all payments required under the terms of the M&M
Agreement(s). 
 
            In opposition, Plaintiff argues that
the ultimate facts which must be pled are set forth in jury instructions, so it
is not required to plead every evidentiary fact it seeks to introduce at trial.
Furthermore, Plaintiff also argues it has put Defendants on fair notice of its
claims. Plaintiff also contends it has pled sufficient facts to allege
Defendant breached the implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing because
it pled (1) the parties entered into a contract; (2) Plaintiff performed all
conditions, covenants, and promises required to be performed by the contract in
accordance with the terms of its agreement; (3) Defendants prevented Plaintiff
from receiving the benefits of the contract by committing significant financial
malfeasance; and (4) Plaintiff was harmed by the conduct. In addition,
Plaintiff contends the acts included in this claim are distinctly different
than those that would be included under a simple breach of contract cause of
action because (1) the allegation that the manipulation of the financials
caused a decrease in the revenue Plaintiff was entitled to is not reflected
within a simple breach of contract claim and (2) Plaintiff alleges Defendants
improperly categorized costs, expenses, depreciation, etc., which negatively
affected Plaintiff’s revenue. 
 
            The Court agrees with Plaintiff only
with regard to one aspect of its pleading on the Second Cause of Action of the SAC.  While Paragraphs 33 a, b and c all allege
matters that come within the ambit of obligations relating to a standard breach
of contract action, the allegation of Paragraph 33d, relating to Defendants’
alleged failure to engage in arms-length transactions or otherwise avoid
self-dealing when contracting with related entities, giving a specific example
of such a situation, raises an issue that would not ordinarily be part of a
breach of written contract claim.  Such
an obligation is not within the ambit of a standard breach of contract claim,
but could arise from an implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing.  This allegation therefore raises an issue
that gives rise to a valid cause of action for breach of the implied covenant
of good faith and fair dealing under Ladd v. Warner Bros. (2010) 184
Cal.App.4th 1298, 1301.  
 
            Therefore, the demurrer as to the
second cause of action is OVERRULED.
 
Moving
Party is ordered to give notice of this ruling.            
 


 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at SMC_DEPT56@lacourt.org as directed
by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department does not receive an email
and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion will be placed off
calendar.
            
 
Dated this 18th day of March 2024
 




 


 


 




 


 


Hon. Holly J.
  Fujie
Judge of the
  Superior Court
 




 