  Case Number:  22STCV39985    Hearing Date:   March 20, 2024    Dept:  61 Plaintiff
and Cross-Defendant Ocean Blue Express, Inc.’s Demurrer to Defendant and
Cross-Complainant EK Line, Inc.’s Cross-Complaint is CONTINUED to ______. An
OSC re: Defendant/Cross-Complainant failure to hire new counsel or file an
Opposition to the demurrer is set for ________.
 
Plaintiffs to give notice.
 
I.                  
DEMURRER
A demurrer should be sustained only where the defects appear
on the face of the pleading or are judicially noticed. (Code Civ. Pro., §§
430.30, et seq.) In particular, as is
relevant here, a court should sustain a demurrer if a complaint does not allege
facts that are legally sufficient to constitute a cause of action. (See
id. § 430.10, subd. (e).) As the Supreme Court held in Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311:
“We treat the demurrer as admitting all material facts properly pleaded, but
not contentions, deductions or conclusions of fact or law. . . . Further, we
give the complaint a reasonable interpretation, reading it as a whole and its
parts in their context.” (Id. at
p. 318; see also Hahn. v. Mirda
(2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747 [“A demurrer tests the pleadings alone and not
the evidence or other extrinsic matters. Therefore, it lies only where the
defects appear on the face of the pleading or are judicially noticed.
[Citation.]”) 
 
“In determining whether the complaint is sufficient as
against the demurrer … if on consideration of all the facts stated it appears
the plaintiff is entitled to any relief at the hands of the court against the
defendants the complaint will be held good although the facts may not be
clearly stated.”  (Gressley v. Williams (1961) 193 Cal.App.2d 636, 639.)
 
“A demurrer
for uncertainty is strictly construed, even where a complaint is in some
respects uncertain, because ambiguities can be clarified under modern discovery
procedures.” (Khoury v. Maly’s of Cal., Inc. (1993) 14 Cal.App.4th 612,
616.) Such demurrers “are disfavored,
and are granted only if the pleading is so incomprehensible that a defendant
cannot reasonably respond.” (Mahan v. Charles
W. Chan Insurance Agency, Inc. (2017) 14 Cal.App.5th 841, 848.)
 
A demurrer should not be sustained without leave to amend if
the complaint, liberally construed, can state a cause of action under any
theory or if there is a reasonable possibility the defect can be cured by
amendment. (Schifando v. City of Los Angeles, supra, 31 Cal.4th at p.
1081.) The demurrer also may be sustained without leave to amend where the
nature of the defects and previous unsuccessful attempts to plead render it
probable plaintiff cannot state a cause of action. (Krawitz v. Rusch
(1989) 209 Cal.App.3d 957, 967.)
 
Plaintiff and Cross-Defendant
Ocean Blue Express, Inc. (Plaintiff) demurrers to the Cross-Complaint of
Defendant and Cross-Complainant EK Line, Inc. (EK) on the grounds that, per the
notice of settlement filed by EK on December 11, 2023, EK and Defendant Jae
Shin Kim (Kim) have assigned their claims to another entity, Beg4Clothing,
Inc., depriving them of standing to bring the present action. (Demurrer at p.
6.) Plaintiff also argues that the first cause of action for breach of contract
fails because EK fails to attach the contract sued upon or state an amount of
damages. (Demurrer at pp. 7–8.) Plaintiff argues that the second cause of
action for indemnity fails to state facts upon which indemnity might be based.
(Demurrer at p. 9.) Finally, Plaintiff argues that EK fails to state facts
supporting any grounds for rescission of the parties’ earlier settlement
agreement. (Demurrer at pp. 10–12.) 
EK, in lieu of opposition, has
submitted a declaration of its counsel, Frank C. Brucculeri, explaining that
Plaintiff, EK and Beg4clothing have, as of February 6, 2024, completed a
settlement agreement without Brucculeri’s input. (Brucculeri Decl. ¶ 6.) The
agreement was executed by EK and Beg4Clothing by Defendant Jae Shin Kim, and
there is apparently some dispute as to whether Kim was authorized to execute
the agreement. (Bruccleri Decl. ¶¶ 8–10.) Brucculeri seeks a continuance on the
demurrer to allow the parties to either enforce the settlement or for his firm
to withdraw if EK and Beg4Clothing, both of whom he represents, are not able to
resolve their conflict over the settlement. (Brucculeri Decl. ¶ 12.) 
Plaintiff in reply asks that the
demurrer remain on calendar, and that the court either rule upon it or continue
the hearing and set an OSC re: EK’s failure to hire new counsel or file an
opposition to the demurrer. (Reply at p. 5.)
The parties are in agreement that
a settlement agreement of some form has been executed. There is evidently some
dispute as to whether this settlement is binding upon Beg4Clothing, the
assignee of EK’s interest in its claims.
Rather than rule upon the demurrer
at this time, and given these ongoing issues, the second proposed option by
Plaintiff is best. The demurrer is continued, and an OSC re:  Defendants’ 
failure to hire new counsel or file an Opposition to the demurrer set
for a date prior to that time.