 Case Number:  23STCV14890    Hearing Date:   March 20, 2024    Dept:  61 Defendant
Liv Burger’s Motion to Quash Service of Summons is GRANTED. Defendant to provide notice.
 
I.      
MOTION TO QUASH SERVICE OF SUMMONS
Code of Civil Procedure section 418.10, subd. (a)(1) states: “A
defendant, on or before the last day of his or her time to plead or within any
further time that the court may for good cause allow, may serve and file a
notice of motion for one or more of the following purposes . . . (1) To quash
service of summons on the ground of lack of jurisdiction of the court over him
or her.”
“‘[C]ompliance with the statutory procedures for service of
process is essential to establish personal jurisdiction.” (Ellard v. Conway (2001)
94 Cal.App.4th 540, 544.) Mere notice of litigation does not confer personal
jurisdiction absent substantial compliance with the statutory requirements for
service of summons. (MJS Enterprises,
Inc. v. Superior Court (1984) 153 Cal.App.3d 555, 557.) 
While
courts are not required to accept self-serving evidence — such as declarations
that one was not served — submitted to support a motion to quash, facial
defects of the proof of service will rebut its presumption of proper service. (American Exp. Centurion Bank, supra, 199 Cal.App.4th at p. 390.) The
burden is on a plaintiff to prove facts showing that service was effective. (Summers v. McClanahan (2006) 140
Cal.App.4th 403, 413.)
Defendant
Liv Burger (Defendant) argues that service should be quashed because although
the proof of service filed on December 27, 2023 states that she was personally
served at an address on 83rd Street in Playa Del Rey, she was not
present for service when it was made. She presents a declaration stating that
“someone left some legal documents by my front door,” and denies being
personally served. (Burger Decl. ¶ 1.) She presents the declaration of Heather
Patterson, who testifies that she was working at her home office at the time of
the service in question, when two process servers approached her closed metal
screen door, asked, “Live Burger?” and “began spouting off legal jargon” before
leaving the summons and complaint at the door. (Motion Exh. C.) Patterson says
that Burger was not present for this action. (Ibid.)
Plaintiff
argues that Burger cannot move to quash because she is in default, and further
that the present motion was not served upon him. (Opposition at p. 4.) He
presents the declaration of Alexander J. Petale, who describes the service that
took place on November 12, 2023, and argues that the declarations of Burger and
Patterson are not credible, because Burger is a participant in the conspiracy
to defame him, and Patterson is likely involved in the conspiracy, as indicated
by her possession of a Facebook profile and her use of the internet handle
“underoathkitten.” (Murrey Decl. Exh. 30.) 
“Entry of a defendant's default
terminates that defendant's rights to participate in the litigation, and the
case ends when default judgment is entered.” (Garcia v.
Politis (2011) 192 Cal.App.4th 1474, 1479,
internal citations omitted.) However, a party in default may seek relief from
that default. Including on the grounds that the default is void for lack of
personal jurisdiction. (See Strathvale
Holdings v. E.B.H. (2005) 126 Cal.App.4th
1241, 1249.) Lack of proper service makes the entry of default or default
judgment void. (See Hearn v. Howard (2009) 177 Cal.App.4th 1193, 1200.) The court may
therefore address the motion to quash service of summons, as any showing of
entitlement to relief on that point would require that the default be set
aside.Service here was purportedly made
upon Defendant by personal service. “A summons may be served by personal
delivery of a copy of the summons and of the complaint to the person to be
served. Service of a summons in this manner is deemed complete at the time of
such delivery.” (Code Civ. Proc. §
415.10.) Personal service may be accomplished despite a defendant’s rejection
of the papers, such as by locking the door of his car and rolling the window up
as a process server explains the import of the papers, which are then placed
beneath his windshield wipers. (See Trujillo
v. Trujillo (1945) 71 Cal.App.2d 257,
260.) Leaving the papers with someone else, however, while the target of
service is not present, is insufficient. (See Sternbeck
v. Buck (1957) 148 Cal.App.2d 829, 831
[finding no personal service where papers were delivered to “the
defendant's wife on the front driveway of their home” while the defendant was
“out of view 100 feet distant in the rear, building a barn”].) The present case resembles the latter scenario. Patterson
testifies that she was the one who interacted with the process server, and that
Defendant was not present for the service. Plaintiff has offered no reason not
to credit Patterson’s testimony save unfounded speculation that she and
Defendant form part of the same conspiracy to defame him. Indeed, the process
server’s description of this encounter corroborates Patterson’s account in key
respects, save his claim that the woman he encountered resembled pictures that
Plaintiff had previously shown him. (Petale Decl. ¶ 3.) As his interaction took
place during daylight hours, looking through a metal screen door into a home
interior, this resemblance is suspect.   The motion is GRANTED.