 Case Number:  21STCV28754    Hearing Date:   June 5, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


June
  5, 2024




CASE NUMBER:


21STCV28754




MOTIONS:  


Motion
  to Enforce Order & Notice of Non-Compliance and Contempt of Court Order
  to Pay Sanctions




MOVING PARTY:


Plaintiff Tatyana Ivanova  




OPPOSING PARTY:


None
  



 
 
BACKGROUND
 
Plaintiff
Tatyana Ivanova (“Plaintiff”) moves for terminating sanctions, or in the
alternative a Writ of Execution, and for additional monetary sanctions against
Defendant Chen Family Trust, Co-Trustees Jack M. Chen and Shirley S. Chen for
failing to comply with a May 9, 2023 discovery order issuing $1,061.65 in
sanctions. No opposition has been filed. 
 
ANALYSIS
 
On
May 9, 2023, the Court granted Plaintiff’s unopposed motion to compel responses
to Form Interrogatories, Set One. The Court ordered Defendant Chen Family Trust
(“Defendant”) to serve verified responses without objections within 30 days and
to pay $1,061.65 in monetary sanctions within 30 days. (Min. Order, 5/9/23.)
 
In
the instant motion, Plaintiff does not assert that Defendant failed to provide
discovery responses, but that it failed to pay the sanctions. 
 
Plaintiff
first moves for terminating sanctions. However, there is no authority for
imposition of sanctions for failure to pay sanctions. (See Newland v.
Superior Court (1995) 40 Cal.App.4th 608, 615 [holding, “a terminating
sanction issued solely because of a failure to pay a monetary discovery
sanction is never justified.”].) Sanctions orders are enforceable as money
judgments unless the court orders otherwise. Thus, the remedy to enforce
payment of monetary sanctions is to obtain and levy a writ of execution on
assets of the debtor. (Id. at 615.) Therefore, the Court denies the
request for terminating sanctions since it appears this motion is based solely
on Defendant’s failure to pay monetary sanctions. 
 
Next,
Plaintiff seeks a writ of execution as stated in Newland and pursuant to
Code of Civil Procedure sections 680.230, 680.270, and 699.510. (Motion, 1.)
Monetary sanction orders “have the force and effect of a money judgment, and
are immediately enforceable through execution, except to the extent the trial
court may order a stay of the sanction.” (Newland, supra, 40
Cal.App.4th at 615.) Code of Civil Procedures section 699.510 states in
relevant part: “Subject to subdivision (b), after entry of a money judgment, a
writ of execution shall be issued by the clerk of the court, upon application
of the judgment creditor, and shall be directed to the levying officer in the
county where the levy is to be made and to any registered process server.”
(Code Civ. Proc. § 699.510(a).) 
 
Here,
Plaintiff has not filed an application with the clerk of the court, but a
noticed motion. Therefore, since the procedure has not been followed under
section 699.510, the request for a writ of execution is denied. Moreover, as
noted in the Court’s November 9, 2023 order, defendant Chen Family Trust is not
represented by counsel and has not properly appeared in the case. Although no
motion to strike the answer has been filed, Plaintiff does not set forth
authority that the monetary sanctions order is enforceable in these
circumstances.
 
Lastly,
while Plaintiff seeks additional monetary sanctions for filing this motion, she
fails to identify a statutory basis for further sanctions. Therefore, the
request is denied. 
 
CONCLUSION
 
Therefore,
Plaintiff’s motion to Enforce Order & Notice of Non-Compliance and Contempt
of Court Order to Pay Sanctions is DENIED. 
 
Plaintiff shall provide notice of the Court’s ruling and file a proof
of service of such. 
 