  Case Number:  22AHCV00886    Hearing Date:   January 15, 2025    Dept:  3 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - NORTHEAST
DISTRICT
 



U&G CONSTRUCTION GROUP INC., 
                    Plaintiff(s),
          vs.
 
REAL
   PROSPERITY INVESMENT LLC,
  et al.,
 
                    Defendant(s),


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
  )
  )
  )


   CASE
  NO.: 22AHCV00886
(Consolidated
  w/ Case No. 23STCV01341)
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: DEMURRER TO PLAINTIFF’S SECOND AMENDED COMPLAINT FILED BY
   DEFENDANTS CDMY INVESTMENT, LLC AND CHARLES WONG 
 
Dept. 3
8:30 a.m.
January 15, 2025




 


)


 



 
I.      INTRODUCTION
          On
July 12, 2024, following a consolidation order, plaintiffs U&G Construction
Group, Inc. (“U&G Construction”) and Zhuoheng Gu (“Gu”) (collectively, “Plaintiffs”)
filed this Second Amended Complaint (“SAC”) against defendants Real Prosperity
Investment, LLC (“Real Prosperity”), LA Investment Advisory, LLC (“LA
Investment”), CDMY Investment, LLC (“CDMY”), Charles Wong (“Wong”), Wendan Bao
(“Bao”) and Shuo Gu. The action relates to residential real property located at
1999 Sierra Madre Villa Ave., Pasadena California 91107 (“Subject Property”). 
          Plaintiffs
assert causes of action for breach of contract, foreclosure of mechanics’ lien,
quantum meruit, intentional misrepresentation, fraudulent concealment, false
promise, intentional interference with contractual relations, cancellation of
instruments, wrongful foreclosure, breach of the implied covenant of good faith
and fair dealing, unfair competition in violation of Business and Professions
Code section 17200 et seq., and rescission of lease.   
          On
August 23, 2024, CDMY and Wong filed this demurrer to the SAC. The demurrer,
according to the demurring defendants,
is brought pursuant to section 430
subdivision (e) of the California Code of Civil Procedure on the following
grounds: 
 
1. All claims
against CDMY fail because the complaint does not state facts sufficient to
constitute a cause of action against CDMY. Civ. Proc. Code § 438(e). 
 
2. All claims
against Wong fail because the complaint does not state facts sufficient to
constitute a cause of action against Wong. Civ. Proc. Code § 438(e). 
 
3. All claims
fail because Plaintiff cannot foreclose on CDMY’s earlier recorded deed of
trust which was already foreclosed and erased Plaintiff’s junior mechanic’s
lien. 
 
4. Plaintiffs
fail to state a claim for fraud—intentional misrepresentation (Fourth COA).
Civ. Proc. Code § 438(e). 
 
5. Plaintiffs
fail to state a claim for fraudulent concealment (Fifth COA). Civ. Proc. Code §
438(e). 
 
6. Plaintiffs
fail to state a claim for intentional interference with contractual relations
(Seventh COA). Civ. Proc. Code § 438(e). 
 
7. Plaintiffs
fail to state a claim for cancellation of instruments (Eight COA). Civ. Proc.
Code § 438(e). 
 
8. Plaintiffs
fail to state a claim for wrongful foreclosure (Ninth COA). Civ. Proc. Code §
438(e). 
 
9. Plaintiffs
fail to state a claim for Unfair and Fraudulent Business Practices, Cal. Bus. U
Prof. Code § 17200 (Eleventh COA). Civ. Proc. Code § 438(e).
 
          Plaintiffs
filed an opposition brief on January 2, 2025.
          CDMY
and Wong filed a reply brief on January 8, 2025. 
II.     REQUEST FOR
JUDICIAL NOTICE
Defendant requests judicial notice of 9
publicly recorded documents and court records. The request is GRANTED. (Evid.
Code, §§ 452, subd. (c)-(d).
III.       
LEGAL
STANDARD
A demurrer tests the legal sufficiency
of the pleadings and will be sustained only where the pleading is defective on
its face. (City of Atascadero v. Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith,
Inc. (1998) 68 Cal.App.4th 445, 459.) “We treat the demurrer as admitting
all material facts properly pleaded but not contentions, deductions or
conclusions of fact or law. We accept the factual allegations of the complaint
as true and also consider matters which may be judicially noticed. [Citation.]”
(Mitchell v. California Department of Public Health (2016) 1 Cal.App.5th
1000, 1007; Del E. Webb Corp. v. Structural Materials Co. (1981) 123
Cal.App.3d 593, 604 [“the facts alleged in the pleading are deemed to be true,
however improbable they may be”].) Allegations are to be liberally construed. (Code
Civ. Proc., § 452.) A demurrer may be brought if insufficient facts are stated
to support the cause of action asserted. (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subd.
(e).) 
IV.       
DISCUSSION
A.  
Allegations
of the SAC 
Plaintiffs alleged they met Bao in or
about May 2022, in connection with efforts to obtain real estate development
financing. Bao represented that he ran an investment fund and that Wong was a
banker who had sold his private bank for $3 billion. (SAC, ¶ 29.) Bao informed
Plaintiffs that he and Wong could help U&G obtain financing, but that
U&G would need to purchase the Subject Property from Real Prosperity and LA
Investment. (SAC, ¶ 29.) 
On or about June 23, 2022, U&G
entered into a written agreement with Real Prosperity and LA Investment to
purchase the Subject Property for $8,050,000. (SAC, ¶¶ 30, 31.) At the time agreement
was executed, Bao told Gu that two private liens on the Subject Property were “fake.”
(Ibid.) These liens were: (1) a deed of trust recorded on November 14,
2019 (“2019 Deed of Trust”) with CDMY as the beneficiary and (2) another deed
of trust executed on or about March 25, 2021 (“YSC Deed of Trust”) in favor of
Yanji City Shungoushangmao Co., Ltd. (SAC, ¶¶ 23-24.) U&G, Real Prosperity,
and LA Investment also memorialized their agreement that U&G would make
improvements to the Subject Property, not to exceed $1.5 million, and the value
of those improvements would be credited against and deducted from the purchase
price.
Also, on or around June 23, 2022, Gu entered
into a rental agreement with Real Prosperity and LA Investment for the Subject
Property. The lease term was 2 years and required a single payment of $50,000.
(SAC, ¶ 33.) Gu alleges he paid the entire amount to one of Bao’s companies
and, pursuant to the Lease, Plaintiffs received the keys for, and took
possession of, the Subject Property. 
On or about July 5, 2022, Gu met with
Wong, Bao, and Shuo Gu at a restaurant. (SAC, ¶ 35.) Wong told Gu that he owned
the Subject Property and that the liens were both “fake” and he could remove
them at any time. (Ibid.) Wong repeated this to Gu when they met again
on July 10, 2022; Wong also instructed Gu to have U&G undertake remodeling
work on the Subject Property. (SAC, ¶ 36.) 
On or about October 11, 2022, Plaintiff
learned that non-judicial foreclosure proceedings had been commenced on the
Subject Property. (SAC, ¶ 40.) By then, U&G had already made improvements
to the Subject Property with a value of not less than $699,600. (Ibid.)
A trustee’s sale was held on October 27, 2022. (SAC, ¶ 42.) 
B.  
Intentional
Misrepresentation and Fraudulent Concealment
Plaintiffs allege CDMY and Wong (among
the other defendants) conspired to defraud them with intentional
misrepresentations and/or fraudulent concealment of facts. The elements of fraud are: (1) misrepresentation (false
representation, concealment, or nondisclosure); (2) knowledge of falsity
(scienter); (3) intent to defraud or induce reliance; (4) justifiable reliance;
and (5) damages. (See Civil Code §1709.) Fraud actions are subject to
strict requirements of particularity in pleading. (Committee on Children’s
Television, Inc. v. General Foods Corp. (1983) 35 Cal.3d 197, 216.)
Wong and CDMY allegedly defrauded
Plaintiffs by concealing their intent to: (1) rely upon the 2019 Deed of Trust
to foreclose against the Subject Property and (2) “deny [Plaintiffs] any
benefit or consideration for [Gu’s] $50,000 lease payment, U&G’s deposit
for the purchase of the Subject Property, and the improvements that U&G
made to the Subject Property. (SAC, ¶ 46.) 
With respect to the element of damages,
Wong and CDMY argue that Plaintiffs have failed to allege that they sustained
any damages from their conduct. Damages are a required element of fraud and
misrepresentations, even if maliciously committed, cannot support a cause of
action unless the plaintiff suffered consequential damages. (Patrick v.
Alacer Corp. (2008) 167 Cal.App.4th 995, 1016-1017; citing Small v.
Fritz Companies, Inc. (2003) 30 Cal.4th 167, 202.) 
First, CDMY and Wong argue that Gu cannot
recover the $50,000 lease payment because it was paid as part of a two-year
lease to Real Prosperity and LA Investment that expired on June 23, 2024, and Gu
never vacated the Subject Property (and continues to “squat” there). (Demurrer,
pp. 5, 11.) Indeed, Plaintiffs allege that after entering the lease, they
“received the keys for, and took possession of, the Subject Property.” (FAC, ¶
33.) Second, Wong and CDMY argue that Plaintiffs only allege an unspecified
amount deposited in escrow and fail to allege that the escrow company refused
to return the deposit or that Wong and CDMY somehow retained the deposit. Third,
Wong and CDMY argue that Plaintiffs cannot recover for their improvements made
because U&G was not a licensed contractor at the time that it performed the
work. (Bus. & Prof. Code, § 7031; Hydrotech Systems, Ltd. v. Oasis
Waterpark (1991) 52 Cal.3d 988.) This Court ruled against U&G on this
licensing issue in February 2024. 
Plaintiffs do not directly address CDMY
and Wong’s arguments about their failure to allege damages and CDMY and Wong’s
positions regarding Gu’s rent and U&G’s escrow deposit are well-taken. However,
the Court adds that the theory of recovery under the facts alleged would not be
premised on U&G’s actions as a contractor who is entitled to reimbursement
for the work performed, but as a prospective owner of the Subject Property who
was fraudulently induced to add value to the Subject Property prior to
acquiring legal title. Admittedly, the SAC is not a model of clarity because Plaintiffs
have included extraneous allegations about licensing requirements and a claim
based on a mechanics’ lien. Plaintiffs also do not explain why Gu would agree
to lease a property for two years when the escrow period for U&G’s purchase
of the property was only 180 days. But, overall, U&G pleads the existence
of damages in the form of improved property value. Accordingly, the demurrer is
SUSTAINED only as to Plaintiff Gu with 20 days’ leave to amend. 
Next, CDMY and Wong demur on the
grounds that Plaintiffs failed to allege facts imposing direct liability on
Wong (as opposed to CDMY) or that Wong truthfully represented that the 2019
Deed of Trust could be removed. This argument is meritless because Plaintiffs
allege that Wong personally made specific misrepresentations that: (1) Wong
owned the Subject Property and (2) his liens would not interfere with U&G’s
acquisition of the Subject Property. (See Michaelis v. Benavides (1998)
61 Cal.App.4th 681, 688.) 
CDMY and Wong also argue that Plaintiffs
could not have relied on any of Wong’s statements because the agreements were
entered into before Gu met Wong and the Notice of Default and Intent to
Foreclose was publicly recorded. (Demurrer, pp. 13-15.) This frivolous
assertion ignores Plaintiffs’ allegations that Bao was working with Wong when
Bao told Gu that the liens were fake and that Wong later ratified Bao’s statements
on two separate occasions. (SAC, ¶¶ 29-30, 35-36, 44.) 
Therefore, the demurrer to the Fourth
and Fifth Causes of Action is OVERRULED as to U&G and SUSTAINED as to Gu
with 20 days’ leave to amend. 
C.  
Intentional
Interference with Contractual Relations 
Wong and CDMY argue that U&G fails
to state a claim for intentional interference with contractual relations
because it did not allege any specific wrongful conduct attributable to Wong or
CDMY. In opposition, U&G argue that the SAC is replete with allegations of
fraudulent conduct and that Wong and CDMY are essentially estopped from arguing
that their 2019 Deed of Trust was valid because Wong admitted that it was
“fake.” At this stage of the pleadings, U&G has the better argument. 
The Court also rejects Wong and CDMY’s claim
that U&G does not allege an economic interest because the contracts
involved a residential property. The SAC alleges that U&G was to purchase
the Subject Property as part of a plan to obtain development financing. (SAC, ¶
29.) Because the objective was to obtain financing, U&G adequately alleged
that there was a probability of economic gain. (SAC, ¶ 29.) 
The demurrer to the Seventh Cause of
Action is OVERRULED. 
D.  Wrongful Foreclosure, Unfair
Competition, Cancellation of Instruments
As for the SAC’s remaining claims, CDMY
and Wong repeat similar arguments, such as the purported failure to “identify
any conduct attributable to Wong” or identify any harm. (Demurrer, pp. 15-17.) Wong
and CDMY contend that the foreclosure on the 2019 Deed of Trust was lawful. This
argument is unpersuasive at the pleading stage given Plaintiffs’ allegations of
estoppel. (See Section C, supra.) Also, for the reasons discussed
above in Section B, U&G adequately alleges that it sustained harm because Plaintiffs
allege as part of their request to cancel the 2019 Deed of Trust and Trustee’s
Deed Upon Sale that the foreclosure allowed CDMY and Wong to “misappropriate
the value of improvements that U&G made to the Subject Property” (SAC, ¶¶
113-114.) Similarly, in paragraph 119, Plaintiffs allege that CDMY and Wong’s
wrongful foreclosure “misappropriate[d] the value of the improvements that
U&G made to the Subject Property” and prevented U&G from purchasing the
Subject Property. (SAC, ¶ 119.) Therefore, the demurrer to the Seventh, Eighth,
Ninth, and Eleventh Causes of Action is OVERRULED as to U&G. 
Since Gu fails to allege recognizable
harm (as discussed above in Section B), the demurrer to the Seventh, Eighth,
Ninth, and Eleventh Causes of Action is SUSTAINED as to Gu with 20 days’ leave
to amend. 
E.  
U&G’s
Mechanics Lien Claim
CDMY and Wong argue in their memorandum
of points and authorities that U&G’s second cause of action premised on its
mechanics lien on the Subject Property fails. CDMY argues that as the owner of
the property, it is a necessary party to any claim involving a judicial
foreclosure and that the Court previously sustained its demurrer on grounds
that: (1) the lien was extinguished when the 2019 Deed of Trust was foreclosed
on, (2) U&G could not maintain an action to recover compensation for its
work performed on the Property because it was an unlicensed contractor at the
time, and (3) the mechanics’ lien identifies U&G as the claimant who
provided the contracting services, therefore, U&G’s attempts to plead
around any licensing requirements fail. (RJN, Exs. G, I.) 
In opposition, U&G argues that CDMY
lacks standing to challenge this cause of action because it is not asserted
against them, but only against Real Prosperity and LA Investment. U&G does
not address the case cited in CDMY’s demurrer, Monterey S. P. P’ship v. W.L.
Bangham, Inc. (1989) 49 Cal.3d 454, in which the California Supreme Court
stated: “It has long been established in this state that all persons with an
interest in the subject real property at the time suit is brought to enforce a
mechanic’s lien on that property must be made parties to the suit.” (Id.,
p. 459.) Instead, U&G argues that CDMY is not a “necessary party” because
its interest in the property is premised on the 2019 Deed of Trust which must
be cancelled due to fraud. The fact remains, however, that U&G’s recorded
mechanics’ lien is defective for licensing reasons already argued before and
addressed by two judges. Therefore, U&G fails to allege the existence of a
valid mechanics’ lien as required to state a claim for foreclosure on said lien.
Accordingly, the demurrer to the Second
Cause of Action is SUSTAINED without leave to amend.
V.     CONCLUSION
          In light of
the foregoing, the demurrer to the Second Cause of Action is SUSTAINED without
leave to amend. The demurrer to the Fourth, Fifth, Seventh, Eighth, Ninth, and
Eleventh Causes of Action is OVERRULED as to U&G and SUSTAINED as to Gu
with 20 days’ leave to amend. 
Moving party to give notice.
Dated
this 15th
day of January 2025
 




 


 




 


William A. Crowfoot
Judge of the Superior Court
 




 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at ALHDEPT3@lacourt.org indicating
intention to submit on the tentative as directed by the instructions provided
on the court website at www.lacourt.org. Please be advised that if you submit
on the tentative and elect not to appear at the hearing, the opposing party may
nevertheless appear at the hearing and argue the matter. Unless you receive a
submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume that others
might appear at the hearing to argue. If the Court does not receive emails from
the parties indicating submission on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may, at its discretion, adopt the
tentative as the final order or place the motion off calendar.
 