 Case Number:  24NNCV03078    Hearing Date:   December 17, 2024    Dept:  3 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - NORTHEAST
DISTRICT
 



LEYDA ESCAMILLA, 
                    Plaintiff(s),
          vs.
 
SAN
   MARINO UNIFIED SCHOOL DISTRICT, et al.,
 
                    Defendant(s).


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


     CASE NO.:  24NNCV03078
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: DEFENDANTS’ SPECIAL MOTION TO STRIKE PLAINTIFF’S COMPLAINT
   AND EACH CAUSE OF ACTION  
 
Dept.
  3
8:30
  a.m.
December
   17, 2024




 


)


 



 
I.           
INTRODUCTION
On July 23, 2024, plaintiff Leyda
Escamilla (“Plaintiff”) filed this action against defendant San Marino Unified
School District (“District”), Linda de la Torre (“de la Torre”), Jason Rose
(“Rose”), and Benjamin Wolf (“Wolf”) (collectively, “Defendants”) for
violations of the Reporting by School Employees of Improper Governmental
Activities Act (the “Act”) under California Education Code sections 44113 and
44114, conspiracy, punitive damages, and attorneys’ fees. 
Plaintiff alleges she is a “classified
employee serving in the position of Health Services Assistant assigned to SMHS [San
Marino High School] and thus is a public school employee under the Act.” Plaintiff
alleges: 
On August 29, 2023, she reported orally
to her supervisors, Wolf and nonparty Lena Richter (“Richter”), that the SMHS
Head Football Coach Nate Turner presented a clear and present threat to the
health and safety of employees and the public (SMHS students) because Mr.
Turner has a violent past, a history of gang violence and drug dealing,
multiple felony arrests, and had recently been accused of several incidents of
violence against women resulting in restraining order applications from his
female victims and retraining orders issued against Mr. Turner.” When Wolf and
Richter asked Plaintiff how she knew this information, she stated that she
could go home and retrieve a packet of documents substantiating her report.
Wolf and Richter requested that Plaintiff do so. 
(Compl., ¶ 15.) 
          Plaintiff
alleges that “[l]ater that same day, [she] provided to Wolf and Richter a
packet of documents substantiating the information [she] had orally reported.”
(Compl., ¶ 16.) Plaintiff also provided a copy of this packet to District
School Board Vice President Joseph Chang (with Wolf’s specific approval) on
August 29, 2023, and on August 30, 2023, to Plaintiff’s union president. (Compl.,
¶ 18.) On September 1, 2023, Plaintiff “documented the information constituting
her concerns in a letter addressed to Defendant Rose.” (Compl., ¶ 19.) 
          Plaintiff
alleges that Defendants conspired to protect District’s role in hiring Mr.
Turner and “concocted a false narrative of Plaintiff’s reporting and conduct,
erected false standards for reporting protected disclosures, and engaged in a
pattern of workplace harassment, bullying, and intimidation featuring multiple
acts of reprisal, retaliation, threats, and coercion against Plaintiff.”
(Compl., ¶. 22.) 
On September 30, 2024, Defendants filed
this motion to strike the Complaint. (Notice, p. 2.) Defendants also seek
attorneys’ fees in the amount of $19,708. 
On December 3, 2024, Plaintiff filed an
opposition brief. 
On December 10, 2024, Defendant filed
reply papers, including evidentiary objections. 
II.         
LEGAL
STANDARD
The California Supreme Court, in Baral
v. Schnitt (2016) 1 Cal.5th 376, summarized the showings and findings
required for an anti-SLAPP motion as follows: 
At the first step, the moving defendant bears the burden of
identifying all allegations of protected activity, and the claims for relief
supported by them. When relief is sought based on allegations of both protected
and unprotected activity, the unprotected activity is disregarded at this
stage. If the court determines that relief is sought based on allegations
arising from activity protected by the statute, the second step is reached.
There, the burden shifts to the plaintiff to demonstrate that each challenged
claim based on protected activity is legally sufficient and factually
substantiated. The court, without resolving evidentiary conflicts, must
determine whether the plaintiff's showing, if accepted by the trier of fact,
would be sufficient to sustain a favorable judgment. If not, the claim is
stricken. Allegations of protected activity supporting the stricken claim are
eliminated from the complaint, unless they also support a distinct claim on
which the plaintiff has shown a probability of prevailing.
 
(Baral v. Schnitt (2016) 1 Cal.5th 376, 396.) 
In ruling on the anti-SLAPP motion, the
court shall consider the pleadings, and supporting and opposing affidavits
stating the facts upon which the liability or defense is based. (Code Civ.
Proc., § 425.16(b)(2).) However, the court does not “weigh credibility [nor]
compare the weight of the evidence. Rather, [the court] accepts as true the
evidence favorable to the plaintiff and evaluates the defendant’s evidence only
to determine if it has defeated that submitted by the plaintiff as a matter of
law.”  (Flatley v. Mauro (2006) 39
Cal.4th 299, 326.)
III.       
DISCUSSION
“To prevail on an anti-SLAPP motion,
the movant must first make ‘a threshold showing the challenged cause of action’
arises from an act in furtherance of the right of petition or free speech in
connection with a public issue.” (Varian Medical Systems, Inc. v. Delfino
(2005) 35 Cal.4th 180, 192.) “A claim arises from protected activity when that
activity underlies or forms the basis for the claim.” (Park v. Board of
Trustees of California State University (2017) 2 Cal.5th 1057, 1062.) “‘The
only means specified in section 425.16 by which a moving defendant can satisfy
that [‘arising from’] requirement is to demonstrate that the defendant’s
conduct by which plaintiff claims to have been injured falls within one of the
four categories described in subdivision (e) . . . .’” (Id. [quoting Equilon
Enterprises v. Consumer Cause, Inc. (2002) 29 Cal.4th 53, 66].) “[I]n
ruling on an anti-SLAPP motion, courts should consider the elements of the
challenged claim and what actions by defendant supply those elements and consequently
form the basis for liability.” (Id.)
Here, Plaintiff alleges that Defendants
violated Education Code section 44113 by 
directly and indirectly us[ing] and
attempt[ing] to use Defendants’ official authority or influence (effecting or
threatening to effect reprisal as described herein, including but not limited
to repeated false and bullying correspondence, threatened forced retirement,
repeated false charges of misconduct, and referral to the ‘Justice Department;’
and taking and/or directing others to take, recommending, processing, and
approving personnel action, including but not limited to forced retirement,
forced administrative leave, and dismissal) for the purpose of intimidating,
threatening, coercing, commanding or attempting to intimidate, threaten,
coerce, or command Plaintiff for the purpose of interfering with the right of
Plaintiff to disclose to an official agent (school administrator or member of
the governing board of a school district) matters within the scope of the Act.”

 
(Compl., ¶ 32.) Plaintiff also alleges
that Defendants violated Education Code section 44114 by 
 
intentionally engaged in acts of
reprisal, retaliation, threats, coercion, and similar acts as described herein
(including but not limited to repeated false and bullying correspondence,
threatened forced retirement, repeated false charges of misconduct, referral to
the ‘Justice Department,’ and taking and/or directing others to take,
recommending, processing, and approving personnel action, including but not
limited to forced retirement, forced administrative leave, and dismissal.
 
(Compl., ¶ 36.) Plaintiff’s conspiracy claim alleges
substantially the same facts, claiming that de la Torre, Rose, and Wolf “acted
in concert” to deprive Plaintiff of her rights under [Education Code] sections
44110-44114.” (Compl., ¶ 40.) 
Defendants identify the specific
allegations which they contend are protected activities. (Motion, pp. 14-15,
citing Compl., ¶¶ 22, 24-28, 31-32, 34, 36, 38, and 42.) These identified allegations
include writing various letters, informing Plaintiff of potential dismissal and
proposing that she retire at the end of the school year following paid
administrative leave, notifying Plaintiff of District’s intent to dismiss her, and
sending Plaintiff home from work indefinitely. (Id.) Defendants argue
that Plaintiff’s claims are “based upon the Defendants’ speech and conduct in
furtherance of discipline proceedings under Education Code section 45113” and
cite to two categories of protected activity identified in the anti-SLAPP
statute: “(1) any written or oral statement or writing made before … any …
official proceeding authorized by law” and “(2) any written or oral statement
or writing made in connection with an issue under consideration or review by … any
… official proceeding authorized by law.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 425.16, subd.
(e).) 
          In
opposition, Plaintiff argues that her claims for violations of the Act and
conspiracy are premised on disciplinary decisions and retaliatory actions – not
speech – and are therefore not protected activities. (Opp., p. 12.) The Court
agrees with Plaintiff and finds Verceles v. Los Angeles Unified School
District (2021) 63 Cal.App.5th 776, cited by Plaintiff, and Laker v.
Board of Trustees of California State University (2019) 32 Cal.App.5th 745,
cited by Defendants, instructive. In Verceles, the Second Appellate
District agreed with the school district that an investigation into a public
employee’s misconduct is an official proceeding but disagreed that any claim
related to that proceeding arose from protected activity. In Laker, the
Sixth Appellate District rejected a university’s argument that a retaliation
claim was premised on protected activity and distinguished a “good-faith
investigation into employee wrongdoing” from a “meritless” investigation “constitut[ing]
retaliatory action.” (Laker, supra, 32 Cal.App.5th at pp. 776-777;
see also Bonni v. St. Joseph Health Sys. (2021) 11 Cal.5th 995, 1009
[denial of tenure not protected speech or petitioning].) Here, although
Defendants are alleged to have made oral statements and sent written
correspondence, this activity is evidence of the underlying retaliatory action
allegedly taken in response to Plaintiff’s disclosures about Mr. Turner.  
Since Defendants fail to satisfy their
burden under the first prong to identify activity protected by the anti-SLAPP
statute, the burden does not shift to Plaintiff to show that her claims have
minimal merit. Therefore, the Court declines to rule on Defendants’ evidentiary
objections to Plaintiff’s evidence submitted in opposition to their motion. 
IV. CONCLUSION
Based on the foregoing, Defendants’
special motion to strike is DENIED.
Dated
this 17th
day of December, 2024
 




 


 




 


       William A.
  Crowfoot
Judge of the Superior Court
 




 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at ALHDEPT3@lacourt.org indicating
intention to submit on the tentative as directed by the instructions provided
on the court website at www.lacourt.org. Please be advised that if you submit
on the tentative and elect not to appear at the hearing, the opposing party may
nevertheless appear at the hearing and argue the matter. Unless you receive a
submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume that others
might appear at the hearing to argue. If the Court does not receive emails from
the parties indicating submission on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may, at its discretion, adopt the
tentative as the final order or place the motion off calendar.
 