  Case Number:  24NNCV01982    Hearing Date:   December 17, 2024    Dept:  3 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - NORTHEAST
DISTRICT
 



TYRONE MURPHY, 
                    Plaintiff(s),
          vs.
 
L.A.
   FAMILY HOUSEING,
 
                    Defendant(s).


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


     CASE NO.:  24NNCV01982
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: DEFENDANT’S DEMURRER TO PLAINTIFF’S COMPLAINT 
 
Dept.
  3
8:30
  a.m.
December
   17, 2024, 2024




 


)


 



 
I.           
INTRODUCTION
On June 3, 2024, plaintiff Tyrone
Murphy filed this action against defendant L.A. Family Housing (sued as “L.A.
Family Houseing”). On August 1, 2024, Defendant filed a demurrer to Plaintiff’s
complaint pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure sections 4310.10(e) and (f). 
On September 16, November 15, and
December 4, 2024, Plaintiff filed several handwritten unnamed documents 
II.         
LEGAL
STANDARD
A demurrer is a pleading used to test
the legal sufficiency of the complaint. (Donabedian v. Mercury Ins. Co. (2004)
116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994.) A demurrer may only be based on defects that appear
on the face of the pleading or matters that are judicially noticeable. (Blank
v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311, 318. It is not the function of a demurrer
to challenge the truthfulness of the complaint; and for purposes of the ruling
on a demurrer, all facts pleaded in the complaint are assumed to be true
however improbable they may be. (Serrano v. Priest (1971) 5 Cal.3d 584,
591; Hacker v. Homeward Residential, Inc. (2018) 26 Cal.App.5th 270, 280.)
         
III.       
DISCUSSION
Here, Plaintiff used a form complaint from
the Judicial Council that appears to be designed for use in contract actions. Plaintiff’s
complaint also includes one and a half pages of handwritten allegations.
However, Plaintiff does not attach a form for a cause of action. A form
complaint such as the one used by Plaintiff must include a form cause of
action. Item 8 on the second page of Plaintiff’s complaint makes this clear by
stating that “each complaint must have one or more causes of action attached.” The
pleading forms for some of the different causes of action available in a civil
lawsuit can be found under the topic “Pleading” on the Judicial Council’s
website at: https://courts.ca.gov/forms-rules/find-your-court-forms.
The Court additionally notes that
Plaintiff’s handwritten allegations do not state enough facts to constitute a
cause of action. If Plaintiff is trying to allege a breach of contract,
Plaintiff does not identify any contract that he entered into with Defendant,
when that contract was formed, or how Defendant breached the contract. If
Plaintiff intends to assert a personal injury claim, Plaintiff does not explain
how Defendant is responsible for his injuries. Plaintiff generally alleges that
his body has been damaged and that he has much difficulty walking. He also states
that he can call many witnesses and seeks $1,045,000 in damages. 
The Court acknowledges that Plaintiff filed
additional handwritten documents to the Court on August 19, September 16,
November 15, and December 4, 2024. However, none of these documents explain
Defendant’s involvement with Plaintiff’s alleged injuries other than to say
that Plaintiff did not have any problem walking before. Plaintiff does not
provide the address of the property where he is claiming these injuries took
place. He does not identify when he stayed at this place or what wrongdoing
Defendant allegedly committed, only that he has lived there for about 90 to 120
days. There are not enough facts to tell Defendant what the lawsuit is about
and why Defendant is legally responsible. 
IV.       
CONCLUSION
Defendant’s demurrer is SUSTAINED and
Plaintiff is given permission to amend his complaint. An amended complaint must
be filed within 20 days of the date of this hearing. 
Dated
this 17th
day of December, 2024
 




 


 




 


       William A.
  Crowfoot
Judge of the Superior Court
 




 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at ALHDEPT3@lacourt.org indicating
intention to submit on the tentative as directed by the instructions provided
on the court website at www.lacourt.org. Please be advised that if you submit
on the tentative and elect not to appear at the hearing, the opposing party may
nevertheless appear at the hearing and argue the matter. Unless you receive a
submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume that others
might appear at the hearing to argue. If the Court does not receive emails from
the parties indicating submission on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may, at its discretion, adopt the
tentative as the final order or place the motion off calendar.
 