 Case Number:  22STCV33238    Hearing Date:   January 15, 2025    Dept:  53 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles – Central District
Department
53
 
 




rochelle smith

   ;
 


   Plaintiff,
 
 
vs.
 
 
scott michael barnes

   , et al.;
 


   Defendants.


Case
  No.:


22STCV33238




 


 




Hearing
  Date:


January
   15, 2025




 


 




Time:





   10:00 a.m.




 


 




 
[tentative]
  Order RE:
 
(1)  
  plaintiff’s
  motion to deem subject matter of requests for admission admitted, and for
  sanctions
(2)  
  plaintiff’s
  motion to compel responses to requests to produce, set two, and for sanctions
 



 
MOVING PARTY:                 Plaintiff Rochelle Smith         
 
RESPONDING PARTY:        Unopposed
(1)  
Motion
to Deem Subject Matter of Requests for Admission Admitted, and for Sanctions
(2)  
Motion
to Compel Responses to Requests to Produce, Set Two, and for Sanctions
The court
considered the moving papers filed in connection with each motion.  No opposition papers were filed. 
MOTION TO DEEM SUBJECT MATTER OF
REQUESTS FOR ADMISSION ADMITTED
Plaintiff Rochelle Smith
(“Plaintiff”) moves the court for an order (1) deeming admitted the subject
matter of the Requests for Admission, Set Two, served on defendants Scott
Michael Barnes, Scott Barnes, Inc., Scott Barnes Labs, LLC (“Barnes
Defendants”), and Jack Cummins (“Cummins”) (collectively, “Defendants”), and
(2) awarding monetary sanctions in favor of Plaintiff and against Defendants in
the amount of $3,810.
If
a party to whom requests for admission are directed fails to serve a timely
response, the court shall, upon motion by the propounding party, order that the
matters specified in the requests be deemed admitted, unless the court finds
that the party to whom the requests for admission have been directed has
served, before the hearing on the motion, a proposed response that is in
substantial compliance with Code of Civil Procedure section 2033.220.¿ (Code
Civ. Proc., § 2033.280, subds. (b), (c).)¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿ 
First, the
court finds that Plaintiff has not shown that she properly served on defendant
Cummins the subject discovery. 
On February
13, 2024, the court issued an order granting the motion to be relieved as
counsel for defendant Cummins.  (Feb. 13,
2024 MC-053 Order.)  The court ordered
that attorney Albert Chang / Law Offices of Albert Chang would be relieved as
counsel for Cummins “effective upon the filing of the proof of service of this
signed order upon the client.”  (Feb. 13,
2024 MC-053, ¶ 5, subd. (a).)  Counsel
has not filed a proof of service of the court’s February 13, 2024 order
granting the motion to be relieved as counsel for defendant Jack Cummins, such
that Albert Chang / Law Offices of Albert Chang is still counsel of record for
Cummins.  
Thus,
Plaintiff was required to, but did not, serve on counsel for Cummins the
Requests for Admission, Set Two.   (Lee Decl., Ex. 1, PDF pp. 12-15 [Requests for
Admission directed to Cummins], 5-6 [proof of service of Requests for Admission
on Cummins].)  The court therefore denies
Plaintiff’s motion to deem admitted the Requests for Admission served on
defendant Cummins. 
Second, the
court finds that Plaintiff has shown that (1) Plaintiff served on Barnes
Defendants the Requests for Admission, Set Two, on March 12, 2024 by mail, and
(2) Defendants did not serve timely responses to the discovery and had not
served responses as of the date that Plaintiff filed this motion.  (Lee Decl., Ex. 1, PDF pp. 18-23 [Requests
for Admission directed to Scott Barnes, Inc.], 24-29 [Requests for Admission
directed to Scott Barnes Labs, LLC], 30-35 [Requests for Admission directed to
Scott Michael Barnes]; Lee Decl., ¶ 3.) 
Barnes Defendants did not file an opposition to this motion or other
evidence establishing that responses that are in substantial
compliance with Code of Civil Procedure section 2033.220 have since been served. 
The court
therefore grants Plaintiff’s motion to deem admitted the truth of the matters
specified in the Requests for Admission served on Barnes Defendants.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2033.280, subds. (b),
(c).) 
The court
grants Plaintiff’s request for monetary sanctions against Barnes
Defendants.  (Code Civ. Proc., §
2033.280, subd. (c).)  The court finds
that $1,060 ((2 hours x $500 hourly rate) + $60 filing fee) is a reasonable
amount of sanctions to impose against Barnes Defendants in connection with this
motion.  (Lee Decl., ¶ 7.)
MOTION TO COMPEL RESPONSES TO REQUESTS
TO PRODUCE, SET TWO
Plaintiff moves the court for
an order (1) compelling Defendants to serve responses to Plaintiff’s Requests
to Produce, Set Two, and (2) awarding monetary sanctions in favor of Plaintiff
and against Defendants in the amount of $3,810.
If
a party to whom a demand for inspection is directed fails to serve a timely
response, the party making the demand may move for an order compelling response
to the demand.¿ (Code Civ. Proc., §¿2031.300, subd. (b).)¿¿ 
First, for
the reasons set forth above, the court finds that Plaintiff has not shown that
she properly served defendant Cummins with Plaintiff’s Requests to Produce, Set
Two, because     (1) Cummins is still
represented by counsel, and (2) Plaintiff did not serve the subject discovery
on counsel and instead served the discovery on Cummins directly.  (Lee Decl., Ex. 1, PDF pp. 13-17 [Requests to
Produce directed to Cummins], 18-19 [proof of service of discovery on
Cummins].)  The court therefore denies
Plaintiff’s motion to
serve responses to Plaintiff’s Requests to Produce, Set Two, served on
defendant Cummins.  
Second, the
court finds that Plaintiff has shown that (1) Plaintiff served on Barnes
Defendants her Requests to Produce, Set Two, on March 12, 2024 by mail, and (2)
Barnes Defendants did not serve timely responses to the discovery and had not
served responses as of the date that Plaintiff filed this motion.  (Lee Decl., Ex. 1, PDF pp. 20-26 [Requests to
Produce directed to Scott Barnes, Inc.], 27-33 [Requests to Produce directed to
Scott Barnes Labs, LLC], 34-40 [Requests to Produce directed to Scott Michael
Barnes]; Lee Decl., ¶¶ 3, 7.)  Barnes
Defendants did not file an opposition or other evidence with the court
establishing that they have since served responses to this discovery.  
The court
therefore grants Plaintiff’s motion to compel Barnes Defendants’ responses to
Plaintiff’s Requests to Produce, Set Two. 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.300, subd. (b).) 
The court
grants Plaintiff’s request for monetary sanctions against Barnes
Defendants.  (Code Civ. Proc., §
2031.300, subd. (c).)  The court finds
that $1,060 ((2 hours x $500 hourly rate) + $60 filing fee) is a reasonable
amount of sanctions to impose against Barnes Defendants in connection with this
motion.  (Lee Decl., ¶ 8.)
ORDER
            The court grants in part plaintiff
Rochelle Smith’s motion to deem the subject matter of requests for admission
admitted and for sanctions as follows. 
            Pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure
section 2033.280, the court orders that the truth of the matters specified in
(1) plaintiff Rochelle Smith’s Requests for Admission, Set Two, served on
defendant Scott Barnes, Inc., (2) plaintiff Rochelle Smith’s Requests for
Admission, Set Two, served on defendant Scott Barnes Labs, LLC, and (3)
plaintiff Rochelle Smith’s Requests for Admission, Set Two, served on defendant
Scott Michael Barnes, is deemed admitted. 
            The court grants in part plaintiff
Rochelle Smith’s motion to compel responses to requests to produce and for
sanctions as follows. 
            Pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure
section 2031.300, the court orders defendants Scott Michael Barnes, Scott Barnes, Inc., and Scott Barnes Labs, LLC (1)
to serve on plaintiff Rochelle Smith full and complete verified responses,
without objections, to plaintiff Rochelle Smith’s Requests to Produce, Set Two
(served on each defendant separately), that comply with Code of Civil Procedure
sections 2031.210-2031.250, and (2) to produce to plaintiff Rochelle Smith all
documents and things in defendants Scott Michael Barnes, Scott Barnes, Inc., and Scott Barnes Labs, LLC’s
possession, custody, or control which are responsive to those requests, within
20 days of the date of service of this order. 
The court orders defendants Scott
Michael Barnes, Scott Barnes, Inc., and Scott Barnes Labs, LLC, jointly and severally,
to pay monetary sanctions to plaintiff Rochelle Smith in the total amount of $2,120
within 30 days of the date of service of this order. 
            The court orders plaintiff Rochelle
Smith (1) to give notice of this ruling to Albert Chang (defendant Cummins’s
attorney of record) and to defendants
Scott Michael Barnes, Scott Barnes, Inc., Scott Barnes Labs, LLC, and Jack
Cummins at their addresses of record, as set forth in the respective Orders
Granting Attorney’s Motion to be Relieved as Counsel – Civil, and (2) to give
notice of the court’s February 13, 2024 “Order Granting Attorney’s Motion to be
Relieved as Counsel – Civil” (Judicial Council form MC-053) as to defendant
Jack Cummins on all the parties that have appeared in the action (including defendant
Jack Cummins), and to file a proof of service of the order with the court no
later than January 31, 2025.
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
DATED:  January 15, 2025
 
_____________________________
Robert
B. Broadbelt III
Judge
of the Superior Court