 Case Number:  BC617750    Hearing Date:   January 15, 2025    Dept:  53 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles – Central District
Department
53
 
 




bonnie duboff, on behalf of herself and other limited partners
   of 245 Spalding Partners, L.P.

   ;
 


   Plaintiff,
 
 
vs.
 
 
linda schermer

   , et al.;
 


   Defendants.


Case
  No.:


BC617750




 


 




Hearing
  Date:


January
   15, 2025




 


 




Time:





   10:00 a.m.




 


 




 
[tentative]
  Order RE:
 
plaintiff’s motion for appointment of
  receiver
 



 
MOVING PARTY:                 Plaintiff Bonnie Duboff, on
behalf of herself and other limited partners of 245 Spalding Partners, L.P.         
 
RESPONDING PARTY:       Defendant Linda Schemer, as an individual, as trustee of the
Surviving Trustor’s Trust under the Schermer Family Trust, as trustee of the
deceased trustor’s trust under the Schermer Family Trust, and as trustee of the
Marital Trust under the Schermer Family Trust
Motion for Appointment of Receiver
The court
considered the moving, opposition, and reply papers filed in connection with
this motion. 
DISCUSSION
Plaintiff Bonnie Duboff (“Plaintiff”) moves the court for an order
appointing a post-judgment receiver over 245 Spalding Partners L.P. (“245
Spalding”) pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 564, subdivisions
(b)(4), (b)(1), and (b)(9).  Defendant
Linda Schemer, as an individual, as trustee of the Surviving Trustor’s trust
under the Schermer Family Trust, as trustee of the deceased trustor’s trust
under the Schermer Family Trust, and as trustee of the Marital Trust under the
Schermer Family Trust (“Defendant”) has opposed Plaintiff’s request for the
appointment of a receiver. 
“Because the appointment of a receiver transfers property—or, in this
case, a business—‘out of the hands of its owners’ and into the hands of a
receiver [citation], the appointment of a receiver is a very ‘drastic,’
‘harsh,’ and costly remedy that is to be ‘exercised sparingly and with
caution.’”  (Medipro Medical Staffing
LLC v. Certified Nursing Registry, Inc. (2021) 60 Cal.App.5th 622, 628
[internal citations omitted].)  “Due to
the ‘extraordinary’ nature of this remedy and the special costs it imposes,
courts are strongly discouraged—although not strictly prohibited—from
appointing a receiver unless the more intrusive oversight of a receiver is a
‘necessity’ because other, less intrusive remedies are either ‘ “inadequate or
unavailable.” ’”  (Ibid.) 
First, upon consideration of the evidence and argument presented by
the parties, the court finds that Plaintiff has not shown that Defendant’s
planned renovation of 245 Spalding is harmful to or will cause damage to the
property, such that Plaintiff has not shown that the drastic remedy of
appointing a receiver is necessary (1) on the ground that property is in danger
of being lost, removed, or materially injured, (2) to preserve 245 Spalding
during the pendency of Defendant’s appeal, or (3) to preserve 245 Spalding or
to preserve the rights of Plaintiff.  (Code
Civ. Proc., § 564, subds. (b)(1), (b)(4), (b)(9); Medipro Medical Staffing
LLC, supra, 60 Cal.App.5th at p. 628; Weisskopf Decl., Ex. B,
Schermer Jan. 16, 2024 Decl. in Opp. to Pl. Mot. to Require Bond, ¶ 9 [stating
that she “need[s] to continue with the renovation without delay”].) 
Second, the court acknowledges that Plaintiff has presented evidence
establishing that Defendant received a letter dated June 10, 2024 from code
enforcement attorneys and prosecutors for the City of Beverly Hills, in which
they stated that (1) Code Enforcement Officer Rodriguez inspected unit 104 of
245 Spalding and confirmed several substandard and unsanitary conditions, (2)
Rodriguez issued three notices of violation to Defendant since April 29, 2024,
which Defendant ignored, and (3) Defendant was incurring criminal and civil
liability for maintaining unit 104 in an unlawful condition.  (Duboff Decl., Ex. A, pp. 4 -5.)  However, Defendant has presented evidence
establishing that she did not receive the mailed letters (but did receive the
emailed June 10, 2024 letter submitted in support of Plaintiff’s motion), and that
she has adequately addressed the concerns with unit 104.  (Schermer Decl., ¶ 8.)  
Thus, after considering the content of the June 10, 2024 letter and
Defendant’s declaration addressing the issues raised therein, the court finds
that the evidence does not show that the appointment of a receiver is necessary
(1) on the ground that property is in danger of being lost, removed, or
materially injured, (2) to preserve 245 Spalding during the pendency of Defendant’s
appeal, or (3) to preserve 245 Spalding or to preserve the rights of
Plaintiff.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 564,
subds. (b)(1), (b)(4), (b)(9); Medipro Medical Staffing LLC, supra,
60 Cal.App.5th at p. 628.) 
The court therefore exercises its discretion to deny Plaintiff’s
motion for appointment of a receiver. 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 564, subds. (b)(1), (b)(4), (b)(9).)     
ORDER
            The court denies plaintiff Bonnie
Duboff’s motion for appointment of a receiver.
            The court orders defendant Linda
Schemer, as an individual, as trustee of the Surviving Trustor’s trust under
the Schermer Family Trust, as trustee of the deceased trustor’s trust under the
Schermer Family Trust, and as trustee of the Marital Trust under the Schermer
Family Trust, to give notice of this ruling.
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
DATED:  January 15, 2025
 
_____________________________
Robert
B. Broadbelt III
Judge
of the Superior Court