  Case Number:  19STCV32649    Hearing Date:   January 15, 2025    Dept:  53 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles – Central District
Department
53
 
 




carl mueller

   ;
 


   Plaintiff,
 
 
vs.
 
 
walmart, inc.

   , et al.;
 


   Defendants.


Case
  No.:


19STCV32649




 


 




Hearing
  Date:


January
   15, 2025




 


 




Time:





   10:00 a.m.




 


 




 
[tentative]
  Order RE:
 
defendants’ motion for change of venue
 



 
MOVING PARTIES:              Defendants Walmart Inc., Wal-Mart
Associates, Inc., Abel R. Alvidrez, and Conrad Schaefer                     
 
RESPONDING PARTY:       Plaintiff Carl Mueller
Motion for Change of Venue
The court
considered the moving, opposition, and reply papers filed in connection with
this motion. 
EVIDENTIARY OBJECTIONS
            The
court declines to rule on the evidentiary objections directed to the evidence
submitted in opposition to this motion by plaintiff Carl Mueller because the
objections are directed to evidence that (1) is not material to the disposition
of this motion, and (2) the court did not consider in ruling on this motion. 
DISCUSSION
Defendants Walmart Inc., Wal-Mart Associates, Inc., Abel R. Alvidrez,
and Conrad Schaefer (“Defendants”) move the court for an order changing the
venue of this action, filed by plaintiff Carl Mueller (“Plaintiff”), to Kern
County pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 397 on the grounds that (1)
this court is not the proper court, and (2) the convenience of witnesses and
ends of justice would be best served if this action were transferred to Kern
County.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 397, subds.
(a) [allowing court to transfer the place of trial “[w]hen the court designated
in the complaint is not the proper court”], (c) [allowing court to transfer the
place of trial “[w]hen the convenience of witnesses and the ends of justice
would be promoted by the change”].)
The court finds that Defendants have not met their burden to show that
the court should exercise its discretion to transfer this action to Kern County
because Defendants have not shown that they made this motion within a
reasonable time.  (Fontaine v.
Superior Court (2009) 175 Cal.App.4th 830, 836 [burden is on the moving
party to overcome presumption of proper venue]; Rycz v. Superior Court (2022)
81 Cal.App.5th 824, 837 [“‘[T]he code imposes no express time limit within
which [a section 397 motion to change venue] must be made.  However, it has been stated that such motion
must be made within a reasonable time after the answer is filed’”]; Willingham
v. Pecora (1941) 44 Cal.App.2d 289, 295 [“It is the universal rule in this
state that motions [to change venue] must be made within a reasonable time”].) 
The court acknowledges that Defendants have argued that they made this
motion within a reasonable time after discovering that Los Angeles County is an
improper venue after taking discovery and depositions, the last of which took
place on May 21, 2024.  (Mot., p.
17:25-28.) However, Defendants did not state exactly which deposition or
discovery was conducted that established that Los Angeles County is an improper
venue in May 2024, and have instead only generally (1) set forth evidence
showing that certain witnesses reside, and certain acts occurred, in
Bakersfield, and (2) stated that they discovered this evidence through discovery
that concluded in May 2024.  At the
latest, Defendants have submitted evidence that Todd Stokes testified, on May
21, 2024, that (1) certain ethics reports are sent to the ethics team, which
has their primary office in Arkansas, and (2) Stokes maintained records for
investigations in the regional office. 
(Ruiz Decl., Ex. L, p. 270:25-271:13, 272:1-12.)  
Even if this evidence was sufficient to show that Defendants
discovered facts supporting transfer in May 2024, the court finds that Defendants
did not show that they acted diligently in conducting discovery regarding the
conduct that is alleged to have taken place in Los Angeles in light of the fact
that Plaintiff filed this action over five years ago.  (Ruiz Decl., ¶¶ 6-11.)  
Since the initiation of this action, Defendants have been on notice
that Plaintiff was employed by Defendants at their Bakersfield location, such
that most of the alleged conduct took place at that location notwithstanding
Plaintiff’s allegation that certain unlawful employment decisions were made in
Los Angeles and that certain records were stored in Los Angeles.  (Compl., ¶¶ 4 [alleging facts relating to Los
Angeles], 9 [alleging that Plaintiff assumed the Store Manager position at
Store No. 5134].)  Defendants also have
had knowledge of the location of defendants Walmart, Inc. and Wal-Mart
Associates Inc.’s principal place of business and headquarters, as well as the
individual defendants’ residences and working relationship with Plaintiff at
the Bakersfield store.  Thus, Defendants
were on notice that Los Angeles County might not have been the proper venue for
this action since the date that Plaintiff filed this action (September 13,
2019).  Further, even if the court were
to accept that Defendants first discovered that Los Angeles County was an
improper venue as of May 21, 2024, Defendants waited an additional five months
to file this motion on October 22, 2024, which the court finds to be an
unreasonable delay. 
Thus, the court finds that Defendants did not file their motion for
change of venue within a reasonable time after their answers were filed.  (Def. Walmart Inc. and Wal-Mart Associates,
Inc.’s Answer filed Dec. 2, 2019; Def. Alvidrez Answer filed Mar. 10, 2021;
Def. Schaefer Answer filed June 21, 2021.) 
            The court therefore exercises its
discretion to deny Defendants’ motion for change of venue.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 397; Rycz, supra,
81 Cal.App.5th at p. 837.) 
ORDER
            The court denies defendants Walmart
Inc., Wal-Mart Associates, Inc., Abel R. Alvidrez, and Conrad Schaefer’s motion
for change of venue. 
 
 
 
            The court orders plaintiff Carl
Mueller to give notice of this ruling.
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
DATED:  January 15, 2025
 
_____________________________
Robert
B. Broadbelt III
Judge
of the Superior Court