  Case Number:  21STCV38805    Hearing Date:   September 20, 2024    Dept:  72  
SUPERIOR COURT OF CALIFORNIA
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES
 
DEPARTMENT 72
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 



 
IBDC LLC,
                                  Plaintiff,
  
         v.
 
 
ALTERRA MOUNTAIN COMPANY U.S., INC., et al.
                                  Defendants.
 


 Case No:  21STCV38805
 
 
 
 
 
 Hearing Date:  September 20, 2024
 Calendar
  Number:  1




 


 



 
             The Court rules as follow on the motions in
limine filed by Defendant Alterra Mountain Company U.S., Inc. (“Defendant”):
 
Motion in Limine 1:  Denied. 
Defendant’s motion constitutes a motion for summary judgment or summary
adjudication with respect to its eighth affirmative defense.  This motion may not be brought in the form of
a motion in limine.
 
Motion in Limine 2:  Denied. 
Defendant’s motion is too generally phrased to be subject to a useful
ruling on a motion in limine.  Defendant
may raise objections to specific evidence at the time of trial if the evidence
was subject to a discovery request and not disclosed in discovery.  In that regard, it appears that Plaintiff
IBDC LLC (“Plaintiff”) and Defendant have not complied with the Court’s trial
preparation order which requires the parties to (1) file a joint exhibit list;
and (2) to meet and confer about the admissibility of the parties’ proffered exhibits.  Plaintiff and Defendant have also failed to
file a joint witness.  Nor have they
filed a joint pretrial binder.  The
binder before the Court does not include any of Defendant’s jury instructions,
proposed verdict forms, or any other defense document.  The Court will continue this Final Status
Conference for a further final status conference prior to the September 30,
2024 trial so that Plaintiff and Defendant can comply with their pretrial
obligations under the Court’s trial preparation order.
 
Motion in Limine 3:  Granted. 
Neither party shall introduce evidence before the jury of any settlement
negotiations.  To the extent that a party
believes that such evidence is admissible, it must bring the issue to the
Court’s attention outside the presence of the jury.
 
 