 Case Number:  23STCV03722    Hearing Date:   September 20, 2024    Dept:  72  

SUPERIOR COURT OF CALIFORNIA

COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES

 

DEPARTMENT 72

 

TENTATIVE RULING

 




 
SERGIO GARCIA,
                                  Plaintiff,
  
         v.
 
 
.GENERAL MOTORS, LLC
                                  Defendants.
 


 Case No: 23stcv03722
 
 
 
 
 
 Hearing Date:  September 20, 2024
 Calendar Number: 22




 


 




 

             The Court rules as follows on the motions in
limine brought by Plaintiffs Sergio Garcia and Crystal Garcia (“Plaintiffs”):

 

Motion in Limine 1:  Granted. 
Defendant General Motors, LLC (“Defendant”) has not opposed this
motion.  Defendant shall not introduce
any testimony or other evidence that Plaintiffs did not avail themselves of or
participate in a third-party dispute resolution program.  If Defendant believes any such evidence is
admissible, it must bring the issue to the Court’s attention outside the
presence of the jury.

 

Motion in Limine 2:  Granted. 
Defendant has not opposed this motion. Neither party shall introduce
expert testimony from a witness who was not designated as an expert
witness.  

 

Motion in Limine 3:  Denied. 
The Court has dealt with the deposition of expert Bryan Jensen in its
prior ruling.

 

Motion in Limine 4:  Denied. 
The motion seeks to prohibit “argument” rather than evidence.  The Court cannot rule on this motion until it
sees what evidence is adduced at trial. 
Moreover, evidence on the issue of Plaintiffs’ treatment of the vehicle appears
to be relevant.

 

Motion in Limine 5:  Denied. 
The document at issue, the CA CEC Case Assessment (Bate No. Garcia
SER00000065) appears to be admissible so long as Defendant can authenticate it
and establish the foundation for a business records exception.  Whether Defendant can do so will need to
await the evidence at trial.

 

Motion in Limine No. 6:  Denied without prejudice.  Plaintiffs have not made a specific  showing in these motion papers that Defendant
violated the Court’s order of February 6, 2024 to produce a PMK.  Without a focus on that question, the Court
cannot grant this motion.  Moreover, the
statement in the Lara Declaration (¶11) that Defendant “refused” to answer
questions on a particular subject is too vague a statement on which to grant Plaintiffs’
motion.  The declaration provides no
specific on what was asked, what the specific response was, and whether there
was any follow-up.

 

 

 

 