 Case Number:  23STCV19283    Hearing Date:   January 16, 2024    Dept:  50  
 
Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
Department 50
 



LARRY LINK, 
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
 
VICTORIA BILLINGS, et al.,  
                        Defendants.


Case No.:


23STCV19283




Hearing Date:


January 16, 2024




Hearing Time:


2:00 p.m.




[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE:
 
DEFENDANTS’
  MOTION TO STRIKE (ANTI-SLAPP) PORTIONS OF COMPLAINT, AND FOR AWARD OF
  EXPENSES, INCLUDING ATTORNEY’S FEES AGAINST LARRY LINK PURSUANT TO C.C.P., SECTION 425.16  
 



            
Background
On August 14, 2023,
Plaintiff Larry Link (“Plaintiff”) filed this action against Defendants
Victoria Billings (“Billings”) and 5523 Harold Way, LLC (“Harold Way”) (jointly,
“Defendants”). The Complaint alleges causes of action for (1) disability
discrimination, (2) retaliation for request for accommodation, (3) failure to
pay wages owed at termination, (4) failure to pay wages owed after termination,
(5) harassment, and (6) “retaliation eviction.” 
            Defendants now move pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 425.16 to strike the
sixth cause of action of the Complaint and paragraph 22 of the Complaint.
Plaintiff opposes.[1]
Discussion
A.    Procedural Issues 
As an initial matter,
Plaintiff asserts that the instant motion should be denied because it is
untimely. Pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 425.16, subdivision (f),
“[t]he special motion may be
filed within 60 days of the service of the complaint or, in the court’s
discretion, at any later time upon terms it deems proper.”
On August 16, 2023,
Plaintiff filed proofs of service indicating that Defendants were served with
the Complaint by substituted service on August 15, 2023. Sixty days after
August 15, 2023 is October 14, 2023. The instant motion was filed on October
20, 2023, and the proof of service attached to the motion indicates that it was
served on October 20, 2023. 
In the reply, Defendants cite to Code
of Civil Procedure section 415.20, which provides in pertinent
part as follows: 
 
(a) In lieu of personal delivery of a copy of the summons and
complaint to the person to be served as specified in Section
416.10, 416.20, 416.30, 416.40, or 416.50, a summons may be served by
leaving a copy of the summons and complaint during usual office hours in his or
her office or, if no physical address is known, at his or her usual mailing
address, other than a United States Postal Service post office box, with the
person who is apparently in charge thereof, and by thereafter mailing a copy
of the summons and complaint by first-class mail, postage prepaid to the person
to be served at the place where a copy of the summons and complaint were left.
When service is effected by leaving a copy of the summons and complaint at a
mailing address, it shall be left with a person at least 18 years of age, who
shall be informed of the contents thereof. Service of a summons in this
manner is deemed complete on the 10th day after the mailing.
 
(b) If a copy of the summons and complaint cannot with reasonable
diligence be personally delivered to the person to be served, as specified in Section 416.60, 416.70, 416.80, or 416.90, a summons
may be served by leaving a copy of the summons and complaint at the person’s
dwelling house, usual place of abode, usual place of business, or usual mailing
address other than a United States Postal Service post office box, in the presence
of a competent member of the household or a person apparently in charge of his
or her office, place of business, or usual mailing address other than a United
States Postal Service post office box, at least 18 years of age, who shall be
informed of the contents thereof, and by thereafter mailing a copy of the
summons and of the complaint by first-class mail, postage prepaid to the person
to be served at the place where a copy of the summons and complaint were left.
Service of a summons in this manner is deemed complete on the 10th day after
the mailing.” (Emphasis added.) 
As noted by Defendants, the
proofs of service filed on August 16, 2023 state that the Complaint was served
on Defendants by substituted service on August 15, 2023, but the proofs of
service do not indicate that the Complaint was thereafter mailed (by first-class mail, postage prepaid) to
Defendants. 
Defendants also assert that
even if the Complaint was thereafter mailed to Defendants on August 15, 2023, service
of the Complaint would not be effective until August 25, 2023. As set forth
above, Code of Civil Procedure section 415.20,
subdivisions (a) and (b) provide that “[s]ervice
of a summons in this manner is deemed complete on the 10th day after the
mailing.” As noted by Defendants, sixty days after August 25, 2023 is October 24, 2023. As set forth above, the instant motion was filed on October 20, 2023, and
the proof of service attached to the motion indicates that it was served on
October 20, 2023. Defendants thus assert that the instant motion was filed less
than 60 days after the effective service of the Complaint. 
In light of the foregoing,
the Court does not find that Plaintiff has demonstrated that the instant motion
should be denied as untimely.  
B.    Allegations of the Complaint 
In the Complaint, Plaintiff alleges that he “was a
long-term employee of Defendants having worked from 2016 until June 2022.”
(Compl., ¶ 5.) 
“On July 15, 2019, Plaintiff agreed to move into two units at 5523
Harold Way, Los Angeles, CA 90028 at the request of the Defendants. This action
was taken to facilitate the removal of the current building manager…” (Compl.,
¶ 7.) “Defendants directed Plaintiff to occupy a unit without a kitchen. A
second unit with a kitchen was provided for Plaintiff’s spouse. Defendants
requested Plaintiff and his spouse to complete a Residential Rental Agreement
stating the market value of the unit. A verbal agreement was made between the
Defendants and Plaintiff that no rent would be forthcoming during the duration
of Plaintiff and spouse’s tenancy.” (Compl., ¶ 7.) 
Plaintiff alleges that “[o]n or about June 30, 2022, Defendants
terminated Plaintiff’s employment without cause.” (Compl., ¶ 9.) Plaintiff
alleges that “Defendants’ adverse employment actions taken against him,
including, but not limited to, his termination, was motivated by and resulted
from his disability (actual and/or perceived).” (Compl., ¶ 17.) 
Plaintiff further alleges that “Defendants filed an Unlawful Detainer
against Plaintiff on July 12, 2023, seeking alleged back rent. Plaintiff and
Defendants entered into a verbal agreement upon move in on July 15, 2019, that
no rent would be paid throughout Plaintiff’s tenancy. Defendants were informed
by Plaintiff that the Landlord’s signature was not present on the residential
lease agreement, and as such was invalid. Defendants continued to pursue the
Unlawful Detainer in court.” (Compl., ¶ 22.) 
C.    Legal Standard
The anti-SLAPP statute is
“a mechanism through which complaints that arise from the exercise of
free speech rights can be evaluated at an early stage of the litigation process
and resolved expeditiously.” ((Simmons v. Allstate Ins. Co. (2001) 92 Cal.App.4th 1068, 1073 [internal quotations omitted].) Courts use a two-step process for determining whether an action is
a strategic lawsuit against public participation, or a SLAPP. First, the court
determines whether the defendant has established that the challenged claim
arises from protected speech. ((Equilon
Enterprises v. Consumer Cause, Inc. (2002)
29 Cal.4th 53, 67.) If such a showing has been made, the
court “determines whether the plaintiff has demonstrated a probability of
prevailing on the claim.” (Ibid.)
1.     Prong One – Arising from Protected Activity
“[T]he only thing the
defendant needs to establish to invoke the protection of the SLAPP statute is
that the challenged lawsuit arose from an act on the part of the defendant in
furtherance of her right of petition or free speech.” ((Fox Searchlight Pictures, Inc. v. Paladino (2001) 89 Cal.App.4th 294, 307.) 
An act in furtherance of
a person’s right of petition or free speech includes the following:
 
(1) any written or oral statement or writing made before a
legislative, executive, or judicial proceeding, or any other official
proceeding authorized by law, (2) any written or oral statement or writing made
in connection with an issue under consideration or review by a legislative,
executive, or judicial body, or any other official proceeding authorized by
law, (3) any written or oral statement or writing made in a place open to the
public or a public forum in connection with an issue of public interest, or (4)
any other conduct in furtherance of the exercise of the constitutional right of
petition or the constitutional right of free speech in connection with a public
issue or an issue of public interest.
(Code Civ. Proc., § 425.16, subd. (e).)
In determining whether a
cause of action arises from protected conduct, the court focuses on “the
allegedly wrongful and injury-producing conduct that provides the foundation
for the claims.” ((Castleman v. Sagaser (2013) 216 Cal.App.4th 481, 490-491.) “[T]he critical consideration is whether the cause of action
is based on the defendant’s protected free speech or
petitioning activity.” ((Navellier v. Sletten
(2002) 29 Cal.4th 82, 89 (emphasis
in original).) In making this determination, the
Court considers “the pleadings, and supporting and opposing affidavits stating
the facts upon which the liability or defense is based.” (Ibid.) 
In the motion,
Defendants assert that “[t]he portions of the Complaint sought to be stricken
arise from a right to petition…” (Mot. at p. 6:18-19.) Defendants cite to Newport Harbor
Offices & Marina, LLC v. Morris Cerullo World Evangelism (2018) 23 Cal.App.5th 28,
45, where the
Court of Appeal noted that “[a]n
unlawful detainer action and service of notices legally required to file an
unlawful detainer action are protected activity within the meaning of section 425.16. A cause of action arising from such filing or service is a cause
of action arising from protected activity.” (Internal quotations and citation
omitted.) 
As set forth above,
Defendants move to strike paragraph 22 of the Complaint, which alleges that “Defendants
filed an Unlawful Detainer against Plaintiff on July 12, 2023, seeking alleged
back rent. Plaintiff and Defendants entered into a verbal agreement upon move
in on July 15, 2019, that no rent would be paid throughout Plaintiff’s tenancy.
Defendants were informed by Plaintiff that the Landlord’s signature was not
present on the residential lease agreement, and as such was invalid. Defendants
continued to pursue the Unlawful Detainer in court.” Defendants also move to
strike the sixth cause of action of the Complaint, which is for “retaliation
eviction.” 
Defendants cite to Feldman v. 1100 Park Lane Associates (2008) 160 Cal.App.4th
1467, 1473, where “[t]he trial
court granted the anti-SLAPP motion as to the Feldmans’ cause of action for
retaliatory eviction and denied it as to the remaining six causes of action of
the cross-complaint. Park Lane cross-defendants
appeal[ed] from the denial of their motion as to the six causes of action. The
Feldmans cross-appeal from the grant of the anti-SLAPP motion on the
retaliatory eviction cause of action.” The Court of Appeal “determine[d] that
the anti-SLAPP motion should have been granted as to all causes of action,
except that of negligent misrepresentation.” ((Ibid.) The Feldman Court noted that “[t]he
trial court found that all seven causes of action arose from Park Lane’s right of petition. With the
exception of the cause of action for negligent misrepresentation…it appears
that the cross-complaint was based entirely upon the alleged threats by
Hawkins, the service of the notice to quit, and the filing of the unlawful
detainer action itself…The prosecution of an unlawful
detainer action indisputably is protected activity within the meaning of section 425.16.” (Id. at p. 1479 [internal
quotations omitted].) 
In the opposition,
Plaintiff asserts that “Defendants have failed to make a threshold showing that
the challenged cause of action arise [sic] from protected activity…” (Opp’n at
p. 7:3-6.) Plaintiff cites to Ulkarim v. Westfield LLC (2014) 227 Cal.App.4th
1266, 1270, where “Monira
Ulkarim appeal[ed] an order granting a special motion to strike…her complaint
against Westfield LLC (Westfield). She alleges several counts against Westfield
relating to the termination of a lease allegedly in violation of a lease
agreement. Plaintiff contends her complaint does not arise from protected
activity under the anti-SLAPP statute and she established a probability of
prevailing on the merits.” The Court of Appeal “conclude[d] that the complaint
does not arise from protected activity” and reversed. (Ibid.) 
The Ulkarim Court found
that “[t]he gravamen of the first and eighth counts is that
Westfield breached the Agreement by terminating it in bad faith, with no valid
grounds for termination, and despite plaintiff’s holdover tenancy, and that the
notice of termination was ineffective. The gravamen of these counts is not
an attack on the service of the notice of termination or the filing of the
unlawful detainer complaint. Rather than attack such service and filing
themselves, the first and eighth counts attack the underlying decision to
terminate.” (Id. at p.
1281.) The Ulkarim Court further
found that “a tenant’s complaint against a landlord filed after the service of
a notice of termination and the filing of a complaint for unlawful detainer
does not arise from those particular activities if the gravamen of the tenant’s
complaint challenges the decision to terminate the tenancy or other conduct in
connection with the termination apart from the service of a notice of
termination or filing of an unlawful detainer complaint. We decline to
follow Birkner v. Lam, supra, 156 Cal.App.4th 275, and Feldman v. 1100 Park Lane
Associates (2008) 160 Cal.App.4th 1467 [74 Cal. Rptr. 3d 1] (Feldman) to the extent that those opinions suggest a different rule.” (Id. at p. 1279.) 
Plaintiff
asserts that here, the sixth cause of action “arises from Defendant’s and Defendant’s
representatives [sic] conduct other than the filing of the unlawful detainer
complaint, namely,” inter alia, “the ‘pattern of harassment’ carried out
in 2022 and 2023; decision to terminate Plaintiff’s employment as property
manager…decision to reject the repair of holes in wall of Plaintiff’s rental
unit…decision to harass Plaintiff regarding past work product…decision to
relocate trash container in Plaintiff’s designated parking space…decision to
reject the repair of Plaintiff’s PTAC (heating and air-conditioning) system…and
decision [sic] to use nonpayment of rent as a basis to evict Plaintiff…” (Opp’n
at p. 8:2-12.)[2]
In the
Complaint, Plaintiff alleges that “[o]n or about June 30, 2022,
Defendants terminated Plaintiff’s employment without cause.” (Compl., ¶ 9.)
Plaintiff further alleges that “[o]n September 16, 2022, Plaintiff reported via
email to the Defendants, regarding the repair of holes in the interior wall of
Plaintiff’s unit 20 caused by the removal of the security camera system by
Duggan Properties authorized by the Defendants. The issue was ignored and yet
to be resolved, 11 months later.” (Compl., ¶ 12.) Plaintiff also alleges that
“[o]n October 27, 2022, Plaintiff received multiple harassing telephone calls
from Gabriell Lambert from Duggan Properties making false accusations towards
Plaintiff alleging incomplete tenant files and missing property keys.” (Compl.,
¶ 13.) 
            Plaintiff further alleges that “[o]n
November 1, 2022, Plaintiff reported via email to Defendants regarding the
placement of a large trash container in Plaintiff’s designated parking space.
In an email from Stephanie Rydall dated November 18, 2022, it stated, ‘if
vehicles continue to block the area for trash to be disposed of weekly, we will
have to have them towed’…On November 26, 2022, Plaintiff provided documentation
to Defendants supporting Plaintiff’s assertion that Plaintiff received prior
approval to park in the designated parking space. Defendants did not respond to
email communication.” (Compl., ¶ 14.) In addition, Plaintiff alleges that “[o]n
May 18, 2023, Plaintiff reported that the HVAC unit was leaking water and was
unusable to Stephanie Rydall during a scheduled Inspection to Enter Premises.
Again, on June 25, 2023, this issue was submitted to Defendants in the Answer –
Unlawful Detainer. This issue was ignored and was not resolved until July 21,
2023, over two months later.” (Compl., ¶ 16.) 
Plaintiff also alleges that “Defendants filed an Unlawful Detainer
against Plaintiff on July 12, 2023, seeking alleged back rent. Plaintiff and
Defendants entered into a verbal agreement upon move in on July 15, 2019, that
no rent would be paid throughout Plaintiff’s tenancy. Defendants were informed
by Plaintiff that the Landlord’s signature was not present on the residential
lease agreement, and as such was invalid. Defendants continued to pursue the
Unlawful Detainer in court.” (Compl., ¶ 22.)  
In the reply, Defendants do not address all of the foregoing
allegations of the Complaint or the Ulkarim case. Rather,
Defendants assert that “[i]n the case at bar, the ‘retaliation’
consisted of service of the notice in anticipation of the unlawful detainer
action and the prosecution of such action. The entire cause of action is
predicated on a right to petition.” (Reply at p. 10:23-25.) But the Complaint
does not appear to contain any allegations concerning the service of a notice
in anticipation of the alleged unlawful detainer action. 
The Ulkarim Court noted that “Copenbarger, supra, 215
Cal.App.4th 1237, stated, ‘Although an unlawful detainer action itself
is protected activity under section 425.16,
terminating a lease is not…A complaint arising out of or based on the dispute
or conduct underlying the unlawful detainer action is not subject to a special
motion to strike.’…Copenbarger concluded that the
complaint was based on a dispute over the parties’ rights and obligations under
the sublease, the sublessor’s alleged breach of the sublease by failing to
serve a 60-day notice, and acts by other defendants allegedly inducing the
sublessor to terminate the sublease. The complaint was not based on
either the service of the 30-day notice or the filing of the unlawful
detainer complaint, and therefore did not arise from protected activity…” (Ulkarim
v. Westfield LLC, supra,
227 Cal.App.4th at p. 1278.) 
Similarly
here, the Complaint is based on the dispute or conduct underlying the alleged unlawful
detainer action, specifically, that “Defendants filed an Unlawful
Detainer against Plaintiff on July 12, 2023, seeking alleged back rent.
Plaintiff and Defendants entered into a verbal agreement upon move in on July
15, 2019, that no rent would be paid throughout Plaintiff’s tenancy. Defendants
were informed by Plaintiff that the Landlord’s signature was not present on the
residential lease agreement, and as such was invalid. Defendants continued to
pursue the Unlawful Detainer in court.” (Compl., ¶ 22.) Plaintiff alleges that
“[a] verbal agreement was made between the Defendants and Plaintiff that no
rent would be forthcoming during the duration of Plaintiff and spouse’s
tenancy.” (Compl., ¶ 7.) As set forth above, “a
tenant’s complaint against a landlord filed after the service of a notice of
termination and the filing of a complaint for unlawful detainer does not arise
from those particular activities if the gravamen of the tenant’s complaint
challenges the decision to terminate the tenancy or other conduct in connection
with the termination apart from the service of a notice of termination or
filing of an unlawful detainer complaint.” (Ulkarim v. Westfield
LLC, supra, 227
Cal.App.4th at p. 1279.) The Court does not find that
Defendants have shown that the sixth cause of action arises from “the service of a notice of termination or filing of an
unlawful detainer complaint.” (Id. at p.
1279.) 
Based on the
foregoing, the Court does not find that Defendants have satisfied their burden
under the first prong of the anti-SLAPP analysis. Accordingly, the burden does not shift to
Plaintiff to establish that there is a probability of prevailing on the
claims.¿¿   
2.     Request for Attorney’s Fees and Costs 
Pursuant to Code of
Civil Procedure section 425.16, subdivision (c)(1), “[e]xcept as provided in paragraph (2), in any
action subject to subdivision (b), a prevailing defendant on a special motion
to strike shall be entitled to recover that defendant’s attorney’s fees and
costs. If the court finds that a special motion to strike is frivolous or is
solely intended to cause unnecessary delay, the court shall award costs and
reasonable attorney’s fees to a plaintiff prevailing on the motion, pursuant to
Section 128.5.” As Defendants are not the
prevailing party on the instant motion, their request for attorney’s fees and
costs is denied. 
Conclusion
Based on the foregoing, Defendants’ motion
to strike is denied. 
Defendants are ordered to provide notice of
this Order.  
 
DATED:  January 16, 2024                            ________________________________
Hon. Teresa A.
Beaudet
Judge, Los
Angeles Superior Court


