  Case Number:  23AHCV00677    Hearing Date:   August 13, 2024    Dept:  X   Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Joel L. Lofton,
Department X
 
 
HEARING DATE:   August 13, 2024                                    TRIAL
DATE: December 3, 2024
                                                           
CASE:                         DIANA TURK BARNES,
Trustee of the DB Living Trust v. JACOB S. SZYMANSKI and CAROLINE F. SZYMANSKI,
Co-Trustees of the Szymanski Community Property Trust, and DOES 1 through 50.
 
CASE NO.:                 23AHCV00677
 
 
 
MOTION
FOR LEAVE TO FILE A FIRST AMENDED CROSS-COMPLAINT

 
MOVING PARTY:               Defendants/Cross-Complainants
Jacob and Caroline Szymanski
 
RESPONDING PARTY:      Plaintiff Diana Turk Barnes
 
SERVICE:                             Filed June 12,
2024
 
OPPOSITION:                     Filed July 9, 2024
 
REPLY:                                 Filed July
16, 2024
 
RELIEF
REQUESTED 
 
            Defendants/Cross-Complainants
Jacob and Caroline Szymanski request leave to amend their cross-complaint to
add Plaintiff as a cross-defendant and to add ten causes of action.
 
BACKGROUND
 
This case arises out of a dispute between
neighbors, Plaintiff and Defendants, regarding the erosion of a shared slope
between their two properties. Plaintiff’s complaint alleged the continually
eroding slope has created created a hazardous condition for Plaintiff’s
property and the wood fence and property at Plaintiff’s property are in
imminent danger of failing from excavation failure and erosion of Defendants’
Property. 
 
Defendants filed a cross-complaint against
Roes 1 through 25. Plaintiff was not named as a cross-defendant in the
cross-complaint. Now, Defendants seek leave to amend the cross-complaint so
they can add Plaintiff as a cross-defendant and ten causes of action.
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 
To continue the hearing to September 10, 2024 at 8:30 a.m. in Department
X. 
 
LEGAL STANDARD
 
A motion for leave to amend must
comply with the requirements set forth in California Rules of Court Rule 3.1324,
which states as follows:
 
“(a)      Contents
of motion
A motion to amend a pleading before
trial must:
(1) Include a copy of the proposed
amendment or amended pleading, which must be serially numbered to differentiate
it from previous pleadings or amendments;
(2) State what allegations in the
previous pleading are proposed to be deleted, if any, and where, by page,
paragraph, and line number, the deleted allegations are located; and
(3) State what allegations are
proposed to be added to the previous pleading, if any, and where, by page,
paragraph, and line number, the additional allegations are located.
 
(b)        Supporting
declaration
A separate declaration must
accompany the motion and must specify:
(1) The effect of the amendment;
(2) Why the amendment is necessary
and proper;
(3) When the facts giving rise to
the amended allegations were discovered; and
(4) The reasons why the request for
amendment was not made
earlier…” (emphasis added).
 
Dilatory delays and prejudice to
the opposing parties is a valid ground for denial. (Hirsa v. Superior Court (1981)
118 Cal.App.3d 486, 490.) Prejudice exists where the amendment would require
delaying the trial, resulting in loss of critical evidence, or added costs of
preparation such as an increased burden of discovery. (Magpali v. Farmers
Group, Inc. (1996) 48 Cal.App.4th 471, 486-488.)
 
Leave to amend is generally
liberally granted. (Code Civ. Proc. § 473(a); Mesler v. Bragg
Management Co. (1985) 39 Cal.3d 290, 296.) The court will not
generally consider the validity of the proposed amended pleading in ruling on a
motion for leave, instead deferring such determinations for a demurrer or
motion to strike, unless the proposed amendment fails to state a valid claim as
a matter of law. (Kittredge Sports Co. v. Sup.Ct. (Marker, U.S.A.) (1989)
213 Cal. App.3d 1045, 1048; California Casualty Gen. Ins. Co. v.
Superior Court (1985) 173 Cal.App.3d 274, 280–281 disapproved of
on other grounds by Kransco v. American Empire Surplus Lines Ins. Co. (2000)
23 Cal.4th 390.) 
 
DISCUSSION
 
The Szymanskis seek leave to file a
First Amended Cross-Complaint to add Plaintiff Barnes as a cross-defendant and
to add ten new causes of action: (1) Negligence; (2) Trespass (Water); (3)
Trespass (Wood Fence); (4) Private Nuisance (Water); (5) Private Nuisance (Wood
Fence); (6) Public Nuisance; (7) Declaratory Relief (Obligation to Maintain
Slope); (8) Declaratory Relief (Wood Fence); (9) Injunctive Relief (Water); and
(10) Injunctive Relief (Wood Fence). The proposed First Amended Cross-Complaint
attached to Defendants’ motion as Exhibit 1. 
 
Plaintiff opposes the motion,
arguing Defendants’ motion comes over a year after filing their cross-complaint
without any explanation for the timing of the motion, and that permitting leave
to amend would severely prejudice Plaintiff. 
 
California Rules of Court, Rule
3.1324 provides that a motion to amend must: (1) include a copy of the proposed
amendment, (2) state what allegations in the previous pleading are proposed to
be deleted, if any, and where, by page, paragraph, and line number, the deleted
allegations are located, and (3) state what allegations are proposed to be
added to the previous pleading, if any, and where, by page, paragraph, and line
number, the additional allegations are located. (Cal. Rules of Court, Rule
3.1324(a).) 
 
In moving to amend a pleading, the
moving party “must” file a declaration that specifies: (1) the effect of the
amendment, (2) why the amendment is necessary and proper, (3) when the facts
giving rise to the amended allegations were discovered, and (4) the reasons why
the request for amendment was not made earlier. (Cal. Rules of Court, Rule
3.1324(b).)
 
The moving papers do not fully
comply with Rule 3.1324. The “clean” and “strikethrough” copies of the proposed
First Amended Cross-Complaint are attached as Exhibits 1 and 2. However, there
is no representation as to when the facts giving rise to the amendment were
discovered or why the request to amend was not made earlier. (Id. at
rule 3.1324(b)(3)-(4).)
 
Broadly construed the declarations
specify the remaining required information. The effect of the amendment is the
add a new cross-defendant and ten causes of action against this party. (Wong
Decl. ¶¶ 3-4.) The amendment is necessary and proper because otherwise,
Defendants are foreclosed from asserting causes of action against Plaintiff
that are related to the claims alleged in Plaintiff’s complaint. (Id. at
¶ 4.)
 
Based on the deficiencies in the
declarations supporting the motion, the court will continue the hearing to
allow a supplemental declaration. 
 
CONCLUSION
 
The hearing on this motion is
continued to allow Defendants to address these issues. Supplemental papers are
to be filed and served 10 days before the hearing. 
 
 
Dated: August 13, 2024                                              ___________________________________
                                                                                    Joel
L. Lofton
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court

Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must send an email to the court
indicating their 
intention to submit.  alhdeptx@lacourt.org
