 Case Number:  23SMCV05640    Hearing Date:   September 11, 2024    Dept:  I This is a motion to compel arbitration.  The moving papers were deceptively easy.  Defendant contended that plaintiff signed an
agreement with an arbitration clause in it, and that the clause was broad
enough to encompass the instant dispute. 
Defendant contended that the clause was not unconscionable and was
therefore enforceable.  But the
opposition raised an unusual twist.  The
untimely opposition asserted that defendant had waived the arbitration
provision by failing to pay the arbitration fee in a timely manner.  Specifically, plaintiff had initiated
arbitration and it was in process, but (according to plaintiff), the deadline
for the final payment was missed. 
Because the payment was missed, plaintiff argued that there was a waiver
under the Code of Civil Procedure and Brown v. Grimes (2011) 192
Cal.App.4th 265.  Plaintiff also argued
that the agreement was unconscionable—in part because it required that the
arbitration go forward here rather than where plaintiff now lives and that it
was not mutual because trade secret issues—the issues defendant would more
likely want to press—did not have to be arbitrated.  The court was not overly persuaded by the
unconscionability or non-mutuality arguments, but was concerned about the claim
that defendant had failed to pay the fee. 
In reply, defendant noted that the reason for the late payment
(defendant did ultimately pay) was that the parties were involved in settlement
discussions.  More specifically, on
August 28, 2023 (or maybe September 12, 2023—it is not clear), AAA (the agency
conducting the arbitration) wrote a “friendly reminder” that fees were due on
September 27, 2023.  Another reminder was
sent on September 22, 2023.  On September
28, 2023—the day after payment was due—defendant wrote to AAA to state that the
parties were having serious settlement discussions and therefore that things
should be frozen to allow the discussions to conclude.  A few days later, on October 3, 2023, AAA
inquired whether it ought to vacate the scheduled dates and times for the
arbitration.  Plaintiff’s counsel
responded on the same day saying that the dates should remain on calendar and
not be vacated.  An hour or so later, AAA
responded to both counsel stating that it could not advise how to proceed.  Shortly after that, defense counsel noted
that if settlement was successful, then payment would be moot.  However, later that day, AAA wrote back and
said that if the dates were not being vacated, payment was still due.  Defense counsel wrote back on October 4,
2023, to say “thank you,” but a week later, on October 10, 2023, plaintiff’s
counsel wrote to say that defendant had breached the arbitration provision by
not paying in a timely manner and that the arbitration was therefore not to go
forward.  The next day, apparently in
response to an inquiry from AAA, defense counsel wrote a letter saying that
there was no waiver and that the arbitration was still on.  A couple months later, this suit was filed.
 
The court is, frankly, more than a little bit disappointed
in the parties here.  Defendant brought
this motion knowing full well that plaintiff would oppose it on the waiver
ground.  But there was nary a word about
that in the moving papers.  Plaintiff
filed an untimely opposition without so much as an apology.  Plaintiff did raise this issue, but provided
no context about the settlement even though plaintiff knew full well that
defendant believed that the parties had acted mutually in the determination not
to pay the outstanding fee and that plaintiff only pressed the waiver issue
after settlement talks were unsuccessful. 
The court only learned about that on September 4, 2024, when defendant
filed its reply, chalk full of additional evidence.
 
This is no way to run a railroad.  The motion to compel is STRICKEN without
prejudice to renewal in a proper motion in which proper arguments are properly
raised with proper evidentiary support. 
Plaintiff can oppose that motion by filing a proper and timely
opposition that raises and provides a full context for the various issues
plaintiff believes are relevant.  A reply
can then follow—but preferably one that does not rely on new evidence to which
the opposing party cannot respond.
 
This is motion practice 101, and the court is disappointed
that neither counsel seems to understand how this works.  The court will assume that both sides will
improve their game going forward.  If
not, the court has adequate tools in its toolbox to insure that the brunt of
improper motion practice falls on the parties and their counsel and not the
court.