 Case Number:  SC1213117    Hearing Date:   September 11, 2024    Dept:  I The matter is here on a status conference following the
court’s granting of Illulian’s motion for a new trial due to jury
misconduct.  The court set this hearing
to determine the effect on the judgment of the new trial order in light of the
court’s equitable determinations as reflected in the Statement of Decision
dated February 22, 2024, which became final after the objections to it were
overruled on March 29, 2924.  Rav-Noy
states that he is willing to forego any additional relief to which he may be
entitled were the case to be retried and to accept the judgment as it stands
based on the court’s equitable determinations, and his theory is that the
court’s equitable findings would bind the jury anyway so there would be nothing
left to try.  Rav-Noy notes that the
deadline to file a notice of appeal of the court’s order granting the new trial
motion is tomorrow, and therefore if the court does not enter a new judgment
today, Rav-Noy will need to appeal even though the appeal is (in Rav-Noy’s
view) unnecessary given that he would waive a new trial and just go forward
with the judgment.  Illulian has not
filed any response to Rav-Noy’s position. 
(Rav-Noy filed his papers on August 27, 2024.)  The court will inquire of the parties.  Unfortunately, the time to appeal is
jurisdictional, so the court will either have to enter a new judgment today or
Rav-Noy will need to file his appeal. 
(The court granted the motion for a new trial on August 13, 2024.)  The court is unsure what the precise effect
would be of that appeal on the current case. 
Plainly the jury issues would be before the appellate court and this
court would lack any jurisdiction to proceed in any manner regarding a
potential retrial of the jury issues until that appeal is decided.  It is not clear, though, that the court would
be precluded from continuing to finalize the equitable portion of the case and,
if the equitable portion resolves the case entirely, entering a judgment based
thereon.  The court will discuss that
with the parties as well.  At a minimum,
even if the court could not enter a judgment, it could still hold a hearing and
announce what it would do if jurisdiction were restored to it, which would have
whatever effect it has.
 