 Case Number:  23NWCV02379    Hearing Date:   January 16, 2025    Dept:  C VARGAS v. LAKEWOOD REGIONAL MEDICAL CENTERCASE NO.: 23NWCV02379HEARING: 01/16/24#11Defendant MARK REYNOLDS, M.D.’s Demurrer to Plaintiffs’’ Complaint is SUSTAINED with 30 days leave to amend.Moving Party to give notice.Plaintiffs’ Limited Opposition was untimely FILED on January 8, 2025, without leave of Court. Per Code, Plaintiffs’ Opposition was due by January 3, 2025. (CCP §1005(b).) Plaintiffs’ Limited Opposition does not substantively oppose the Demurrer, and only requests that leave to amend be granted. (See Lim. Opp. 2:12-13).This wrongful death action was filed by Plaintiffs SERGIO VARGAS, an individual; THE ESTATE OF ELIZABETH VARGAS, by and through its successor-in-interest, Sergio Vargas; SERGIO L. VARGAS, a minor individual; and VALENTINA L. VARGAS, a minor individual against Defendants LAKEWOOD REGIONAL MEDICAL CENTER; DR. MARK REYNOLDS, M.D., an individual; DR. ABRAHAM RAYHAUN, M.D., an individual; and DOES 1-100.Plaintiffs allege the following relevant facts: “[F]rom the time Mrs. Vargas arrived at the LAKEWOOD REGIONAL MEDICAL CENTER’s Emergency Room, Mrs. Vargas withered in pain in a fetal position, drifting in and out of consciousness for about three hours without being seen or receiving treatment. Mrs. Vargas was all-but ignored by the attending staff and doctors, including the medical professionals on duty Dr. MARK REYNOLDS, M.D. and DR. ABRAHAM RAYHAUN, M.D. During the critical time in which Mrs. Vargas entered the emergency room and was ignored by Defnednats her health and life deteriorated by the minute. [¶] Mrs. Vargas suffered from a diffuse subarachnoid hemorrhage with intraventricular extension and onset of hydrocephalus, including a left PCOM aneurysm (a “hemorrhage”). [¶] The complications associated with Mrs. Vargas’ hemorrhage would have been and could have been ameliorated, thereby avoiding her ultimate death, had she received adequate and timely medical care and treatment sooner than she did. In other words, had the emergency room and attending staff and physicians immediately treated Mrs. Vargas upon her arrival, she would not have died.” (Complaint ¶¶20-22.)Plaintiffs’ Complaint asserts the following causes of action:(1) Wrongful Death;(2) Survival Action;(3) Negligent Infliction of Emotional Distress;(4) Loss of Consortium; and(5) Medical NegligenceDefendant MARK REYNOLDS, M.D. (“Reynolds”), generally and specially demurs to the third, fourth, and fifth causes of action.Third Cause of Action – Negligent Infliction of Emotional DistressReynolds argues that this cause of action is subject to demurrer because “[t]here are no facts pled to demonstrate that plaintiff, a layperson with no medical training was aware that decedent had not been properly diagnosed and was not being property treated (i.e. the injury-producing event).” (Dem. 7:17-19.)NIED allows certain persons to recover damages for emotional distress only on a negligence cause of action even though they were not otherwise injured or harmed. (Molien v. Kaiser Foundation Hospitals (1980) 27 Cal.3d 916, 928.) Thus, to plead NIED, negligence must be established. There are two classifications for NIED claims: (1) bystander; and (2) direct victim. (See Spates v. Dameron Hospital Assn. (2003) 114 Cal.App.4th 208, 213.)“In the absence of physical injury or impact to the plaintiff himself, damages for emotional distress should be recoverable only if the plaintiff: (1) is closely related to the injury victim; (2) is present at the scene of the injury-producing event at the time it occurs and is then aware that it is causing injury to the victim and, (3) as a result suffers emotional distress beyond that which would be anticipated in a disinterested witness.” (Thing v. La Chusa (1989) 48 Cal.3d 644, 647.)Plaintiffs allege that Plaintiff Sergio Vasquez was at the hospital witnessing his wife in pain due to Defendants’ medical negligence; and that he suffered emotional distress as a result. (Complaint ¶¶50-51.)The Demurrer to the third cause of action is SUSTAINED with 30 days leave to amend. Plaintiffs’ conclusory allegations are not sufficient to state a cause of action for NIED. Plaintiffs allegations must allege what the injury producing event was, and that they were aware that it was causing injury to the victim.Fourth Cause of Action – Loss of Consortium“When a common law loss of consortium claim is brought after the death of the injured spouse and joined with a statutory wrongful death claim, it may be appropriate to limit the common law claim to the lifetime of the injured spouse inorder to avoid a double recovery with respect to postdeath damages.” (Boeken v. Phillip Morris USA, Inc. (2010) 48 Cal.4th 788, 803.)Here, Plaintiffs allegations do not restrict the loss of consortium claim to the Decedent’s lifetime. (See Complaint ¶¶54-55.) The Demurrer to the fourth cause of action is SUSTAINED with 30 days leave to amend.Fifth Cause of Action – Medical NegligenceReynolds argues that “[t]he Complaint attempts to plead a fifth cause of action for Medical Negligence on behalf of Decedent’s husband, two minor children, and decedent’s estate…. Reynolds, did not owe a separate legal duty of care to these plaintiffs.” (Dem. 9:21-23.)In Opposition, Plaintiffs argue that “the only plaintiff pursuing this Action is the Estate of Elizabeth Vargas….” Lim. Opp. 2:22-23.) However, the Complaint alleges that the fifth cause of action is brought “On behalf of Plaintiffs SERGIO VARGAS, SERGIO L. VARGAS; VALENTINA L. VARGAS; and the ESTATE OF ELIZABETH VARGAS….” (Complaint p. 11:3-6.)The Demurrer to the Fifth Cause of action is SUSTAINED with 30 days leave to amend.