 Case Number:  22NWCV00707    Hearing Date:   January 16, 2025    Dept:  C Defendant AMERICAN HONDA MOTOR CO., INC.’s Demurrer to Plaintiff’s Complaint is OVERRULED.Opposing Party to give Notice.This “lemon law” action was filed by Plaintiffs RENE HERRERA and RAQUEL HUERTA HERRERA (“Plaintiffs”) against Defendant AMERICAN HONDA MOTOR COMPANY, INC. (“Defendant”) on August 12, 2022.On February 22, 2025, the operative First Amended Complaint (“FAC”) was filed.Plaintiffs allegedly purchased a new 2018 Honda Pilot, which was backed by American Honda’s Vehicle Limited Warranty, wherein “AMERICAN HONDA undertook to preserve or maintain the utility or performance of the Subject Vehicle or provide compensation if there was a failure in such utility or performance…. The Warranty assured consumers that AMERICAN HONDA would repair any defect in materials or workmanship under normal use.” (FAC ¶9.) “[T]he Subject Vehicle was delivered to Plaintiffs with serious defects and nonconformities to warranty and developed other serious defects and nonconformities to warranty including, but not limited to, transmission malfunctions, which AMERICAN HONDA was unable to repair within a reasonable amount of time and opportunities to do so.” (FAC ¶11.)The Complaint asserts the following causes of action:(1) Violation of Song Beverly Act – Breach of Express Warranty;(2) Violation of Song Beverly Act – Breach of Implied Warranty;(3) Fraudulent Inducement – Concealment;Defendant generally demurs to the third cause of action.Defendant argues that Plaintiff’s third cause of action is barred by the economic loss rule.In Dhital v. Nissan North America, Inc., wherein the Court of Appeal held that the plaintiff’s claim for fraudulent inducement (concealment) was not barred by the economic loss rule (Id. (2022) 84 Cal.App.5th 828, 837.) Similar to the instant case, the Dhital plaintiffs alleged that “Nissan, by intentionally concealing factsabout the defective transmission, fraudulently induced them to purchase a car.” (Id. at 838.). The Court of Appeal ruled that “Robinson did not hold that any claims for fraudulent inducement are barred by the economic loss rule. Quite the contrary, the Robinson court affirmed that tort damages are available in contract cases where the contract was fraudulently induced.” (Id. at 839.) “[A] defendant’s conduct in fraudulently inducing someone to enter a contract is separate from the defendant’s later breach of the contract or warranty provisions that were agreed to.” (Id.)Here, Plaintiff bases her claim on Defendant’s alleged presale concealment, which is distinct from Defendant’s alleged subsequent breach of its warranty obligations. Accordingly, based on the existing persuasive authority—the Court finds that the economic loss rule does not bar Plaintiff’s claim. The Court proceeds to assess Defendant’s arguments related to the merits of Plaintiff’s claim.The elements of a cause of action for intentional fraud are 1) misrepresentation (false representation, concealment, or nondisclosure); 2) knowledge of falsity (scienter); 3) intent to defraud or induce reliance; 4) justifiable reliance; and 5) damages. (See Cal. Civ. Code §1709.)“[T]he elements of a cause of action for fraud and deceit based on concealment are: (1) the defendant must have concealed or suppressed a material fact, (2) the defendant must have been under a duty to disclose the fact to the plaintiff, (3) the defendant must have intentionally concealed or suppressed the fact with the intent to defraud the plaintiff, (f) the plaintiff must have been unaware of the fact and would not have acted as he did if he had known of the concealed or suppressed fact, and (5) as a result of the concealment or suppression of the fact, the plaintiff must have sustained damage.” (Marketing West, Inc. v. Sanyo Fisher (USA) Corp. (1992) 6 Cal.App.4th 603, 612-613.)Fraudulent inducement is a viable tort claim under California law. ‘The elements of fraud are (a) a misrepresentation (false representation, concealment, or nondisclosure); (b) scienter or knowledge of its falsity; (c) intent to induce reliance; (d) justifiable reliance; and (e) resulting damage. Fraud in the inducement is a subset of the tort of fraud. It ‘occurs when ‘the promisor knows what he is signing but his consent is induced by fraud, mutual assent is present and a contract is formed, which, by reason of the fraud, is voidable.’” (Dhital v. Nissan North America, Inc. (2022) 84 Cal.App.5th 828, 838-839.)“There are four circumstances in which nondisclosure or concealment may constitute actionable fraud: (1) when the defendant is in a fiduciary relationship with the plaintiff; (2) when the defendant had exclusive knowledge of material facts not known to the plaintiff; (3) when the defendant actively conceals amaterial fact from the plaintiff; and (4) when the defendant makes partial representations but also suppresses some material facts.” (Bigler-Engler v. Breg, Inc. (2017) 7 Cal.App.5th 276, 311.) In the absence of a fiduciary duty, “[a] duty to disclose facts arises only when the parties are in a relationship that gives rise to the duty, such as seller and buyer, employer and prospective employee, doctor and patient, or parties entering into any kind of contractual arrangement.” (Ibid.)Citing Bigler-Engler, Defendant emphasizes that Plaintiff fails to allege the existence of a fiduciary relationship here, because there is no direct seller-purchaser relationship alleged between Defendant/manufacturer and Plaintiff/purchaser.In Opposition, Plaintiff cites Dhital v. Nissan North America, Inc. (2022) 84 Cal.App.5th 828, 843-844, which holds: “At the pleading state (and in the absence of a more developed argument by Nissan on this point), we conclude plaintiff’s allegations are sufficient. Plaintiffs alleged they bought the car from a Nissan dealership, that Nissan backed the car with an express warranty, and that Nissan’s authorized dealerships are its agents for purposes of the sale of Nissan vehicles to consumers. In light of these allegations, we decline to hold plaintiff’s claim is barred on the ground there was no relationship requiring Nissan to disclose known defects.” (Id.)Here, the FAC adequately alleges that Plaintiffs bought the Subject Vehicle from a Honda dealership; that Honda backed the Subject Vehicle with an express warranty; and that Honda’s authorized dealerships are its agents of purposes of the sale of Honda vehicles. (See FAC ¶¶7-8, 25, 47, 56-59, 95, 100-101.) In addition, Plaintiff alleges that Defendant concealed and failed to disclose facts relating to the Transmission Defect. (FAC ¶23) ¶137 alleges scienter and intent to induce reliance based on concealment. ¶151 alleges Plaintiff’s resulting damages. These allegations are sufficient to withstand demurrer.The court finds that the Complaint alleges sufficient prior knowledge at this pleading stage. Less specificity is required if it appears from the nature of allegations that defendant must necessarily possess full information, or if the facts lie more in the knowledge of opposing parties. (Alfaro v. Community Housing Improvement System & Planning Assn., Inc. (2009) 171 Cal.App.4th 1356, 1384-1385.)The demurrer to the third cause of action is OVERRULED.