

 
BACKGROUND
 
On April
11, 2022, Plaintiff Patty Smith (“Plaintiff”) filed a Complaint against
Defendant Terry Bowen (“Bowen”), Cassandra Davis (“Davis”) (collectively, the
“Defendants”), and Does 1 to 10, inclusive, alleging a single cause of action
for Motor Vehicle.  This action arises
from a motor vehicle collection that occurred on June 19, 2021. 
 
On October
9, 2023, Defendant Davis filed a General Denial to the Complaint. 
 
Also, on
October 9, 2023, Defendant Bowen filed a General Denial to the Complaint. 
 
On
December 18, 2023, Defendants filed a joint Answer to the Complaint. 
 
On May 22, 2024, Defendant Davis filed and served the
following two discovery motions: (1) a Motion to Compel Plaintiff’s Responses
to Request for Production of Documents, Set One (the “RPD Motion”), and Request
for Monetary Sanctions in the Amount of $765.00 against Plaintiff and/or
Plaintiff’s attorneys of record; and (2) a Motion to Deem Plaintiff’s Responses
to Requests for Admission, Set One, as Admitted (the “RFA Motion”)
(collectively, the “Motions”), and Request for Monetary Sanctions in the amount
of $1,235.00 against Plaintiff and/or Plaintiff’s attorneys of record. 
 
In
opposition to the Motions, Plaintiff’s counsel, Kenneth C. Yeagar, filed a
declaration stating that he has lost contact with his client and that sanctions
are not warranted as to him or his office. (Yeagar Decl., ¶¶ 1-2.) 
 
No reply
was filed. Any reply brief was required to have been filed and served at least
five court days prior to the hearing. (CCP § 1005(b).) 
 
 
MOVING PARTY
POSITION
 
            In support of the RPD Motion, Defendant Davis asserts
that Plaintiff has failed to respond to the Request for Production of
Documents, Set One, propounded by Defendant Davis. 
 
            In support
of the RFA Motion, Defendant Davis asserts that Plaintiff has failed to respond
to the Requests for Admissions, Set One, propounded by Defendant Davis.    
 
 
OPPOSITION
 
            Plaintiff’s
counsel declares that he has lost contact with Plaintiff and no sanctions
should be imposed against him or his office. 
 
REPLY
 
            None filed
as of June 17, 2024. 
 
 
ANALYSIS
 
I.          Compelling Discovery
Responses, Deeming the RFAs as Admitted, and the Imposition of Sanctions 
A.               
Legal Standard/Applicable Law 

“Any party may obtain discovery . .
. by a written request that any other party to the action admit the genuineness
of specified documents, or the truth of specified matters of fact, opinion
relating to fact, or application of law to fact. A request for admission may
relate to a matter that is in controversy between the parties.”  (Code Civ. Proc. § 2033.010.) “Within 30 days
after service of requests for admission, the party to whom the requests are
directed shall serve the original of the response to them on the requesting
party, and a copy of the response on all other parties who have appeared.”  (Code Civ. Proc. § 2033.250(a).)
 
When a party
fails to serve a timely response to requests for admission “[t]he party to whom
the request was directed waives any objection to the requests, including one
based on privilege or on the protection for work product.” (Code Civ. Proc §
2033.280(a).) “The requesting party can move for an order that the genuineness
of any documents and the truth of any matters specified in the request be
deemed admitted, as well as for a monetary sanction.” (Code Civ. Proc. §
2033.280(b).) The court shall issue this order unless the party to whom the
request was made serves a response in substantial compliance prior to the
hearing on the motion. (Code Civ. Proc. § 2033.280(c).) “It is mandatory that
the court impose a monetary sanction . . . on the party or attorney, or both,
whose failure to serve a timely response to requests for admission necessitated
[the] motion.” Id. 
 
Any party may obtain discovery . . . by
inspecting, copying, testing, or sampling documents, tangible things, land or
other property, and electronically stored information in the possession,
custody, or control of any other party to the action.” (Code Civ. Proc., §
2031.010, subd. (a).) Where a party fails to timely respond to demand for
inspection, copying, testing or sampling “[t]he party to whom the demand for
inspection, copying, testing, or sampling is directed waives any objection to
the demand, including one based on privilege or on the protection for work
product.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.300, subd. (a).) Code Civ. Proc. §
2031.300(b) provides that “[t]he party making the demand may move for an order
compelling response to the demand.”
 
Code Civ. Proc.
§ 2023.010(d) provides that a misuse of the discovery process is “[f]ailing to
respond to or to submit to an authorized method of discovery.”  Code Civ. Proc. § 2023.010(h) states that a
misuse of the discovery process includes “[m]aking or opposing, unsuccessfully
and without substantial justification, a motion to compel or limit
discovery.”   “The court may impose a
monetary sanction against a party engaging in the misuse of the discovery
process, or any attorney advising that conduct” under Code Civ. Proc. §
2023.030(a).  A court has discretion to
fix the amount of reasonable monetary sanctions.  Cornerstone Realty Advisors, LLC v. Summit
Healthcare Reit, Inc. (2020) 56 Cal.App.5th 771, 791.
 
B.        The Request
for Documents Motion   
 
            According to the declaration of Robert J. Gardner
(“Gardner”), Defendant Davis served her Request for Production of Documents,
Set One, on Plaintiff’s counsel on March 18, 2024, and no response to such
discovery has been received. (Gardner Decl., ¶¶ 3-7; Exh. A-C.) 
 
            Mr.
Gardner states that his hourly rate is $235.00 per hour, and he spent 1.5 hours
preparing the RPD Motion, he anticipates spending an additional one (1) hour
preparing a reply brief, and he anticipates spending an additional 0.5 hours to
prepare for and attend the hearing on the RPD Motion. (Gardner Decl., ¶ 8.) A
$60.00 filing fee was incurred as to the RPD Motion. (Gardner Decl., ¶ 8.) Defendant
Davis requests sanctions of $765.00 as to the RPD Motion. (Gardner Decl., ¶ 8.)

 
The RPD Motion did not require a Reply brief and is a straightforward
Motion.  The Court therefore reduces the
total hours concerning monetary sanctions as to the RPD Motion. The Court
therefore GRANTS IN PART Defendant Davis’s request for monetary sanctions as to
the RPD Motion and AWARDS Defendant Davis reasonable monetary sanctions as to
the RPD Motion in the sum of $295.00 which represents one (1) hour of work on
such motion at the rate of $235.00 per hour plus the $60.00 filing fee.
 
            Monetary
sanctions are to be paid to Defendant Davis by Plaintiff in the amount of $295.00
within 30 days of the date of notice of this order as to the RPD Motion.
Sanctions are not ordered against Plaintiff’s attorneys.   
 
C.        The
RFA Motion   
 
            Defendant
Davis propounded Set One of her Requests for Admissions on Plaintiff’s counsel
on March 18, 2024, to which no responses have been received. (Gardner Decl., ¶¶
3-6, Exhs. A-C.) Defendant Davis requests monetary sanctions of $1,235.00 as to
the RFA Motion, which represents five (5) hours of work on such motion plus the
$60.00 filing fee. (Gardner Decl., ¶ 8.) 
 
            The
Court reduces the total hours concerning monetary sanctions as to the RFA
Motion for the reasons articulated above as to the RPD Motion.
 
            The
Court therefore GRANTS IN PART Defendant Davis’s request for monetary sanctions
as to the RFA Motion and AWARDS Defendant Davis reasonable monetary sanctions
as to the RFA Motion in the sum of $530, which represents two (2) hours of work
on such motion at the rate of $235.00 per hour plus the $60.00 filing fee. 
 
            Monetary
sanctions are to be paid to Defendant Davis by Plaintiff in the amount of $530
within 30 days of the date of notice of this order as to the RFA Motion.  Sanctions are not ordered against Plaintiff’s
attorneys. 

 
II.        Conclusion 
            
            Based on the foregoing, the RPD Motion and the RFA Motion are both GRANTED IN PART. 
 
            Plaintiff
is ORDERED to provide verified, complete, and code-compliant answers, without
objections, to Defendant Davis’s Request for Production of Documents, Set One,
within 30 days of the date of notice of this order. 
 
            The RFA Motion is GRANTED IN PART and
the Court deems the matters set forth in Set One of Defendant Davis’s Requests
for Admission as admitted. 
 
            Defendant Davis’s request for
monetary sanctions as to each of the Motions is GRANTED IN PART. The Court
awards Plaintiff total monetary sanctions in the sum of $825 as to both Motions.
Monetary sanctions are to be paid by Plaintiff to Defendant Davis in the total
sum of $825 within 30 days of the date of notice of this order. Sanctions are
not ordered against Plaintiff’s attorneys. 

 
            The Moving Party is ordered
to give notice and to attach a copy of the Court’s Tentative Ruling, as an
exhibit “A” to said notice, as the final order of the Court.   Moving party is ordered to give
notice.  