

 
BACKGROUND
 
This action arises from alleged dental malpractice. On
August 29, 2023, Plaintiff Reah Sybirski (“Plaintiff”) filed a Complaint
against Defendant Vladimir Polyakov. 
 
On April 16, 2024, Plaintiff filed the operative First
Amended Complaint (“FAC”) against Defendants Vladimir Polyakov, D.D.S.  (“Polyakov”) and Vladimir Polyakov, D.D.S.,
Inc. (“Synergy”) (collectively, the “Defendants”) alleging causes of action
for: (1) Dental Malpractice; (2) Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress
(IIED); and (3) Intentional Misrepresentation.  
 
On May 7, 2024, the Court entered an order relating the
instant action to Reah Sybirski v. Nikou Zarabian, D.D.S., LASC Case No.
23STLC05564, with the instant action being deemed the lead case. (05/07/24
Minute Order.)  
 
On May 14, 2024, Defendants filed and served a demurrer to
the second and third causes of action in the FAC, as well as a motion to strike
portions of the FAC. 
 
On June 6, 2024, Plaintiff filed and served a combined
opposition to the demurrer and motion to strike, to which Defendants filed a
reply brief as to the demurrer only on June 11, 2024.  
 
MOVING PARTY
POSITION
 
            Defendants
demur to the second cause of action for IIED on the grounds that Plaintiff has
failed to state facts to constitute a cause of action. As to the third cause of
action, Defendants argue that such cause of action is not alleged with the
required particularity and fails to state facts sufficient to constitute a
cause of action. Concerning the motion to strike, Defendants contend that
Plaintiff failed to comply with CCP § 425.13 and therefore the punitive damages
allegations must be stricken. 
 
OPPOSITION
 
            On
opposition, Plaintiff argues that the second cause of action for IIED and third
cause of action for intentional misrepresentation are sufficiently pleaded. As
to the motion to strike, Plaintiff argues that such motion should be denied.   
 
REPLY
 
            On reply,
Defendants argue that Plaintiff fails to plead each essential element of IIED.
As to the third cause of action for intentional misrepresentation, Defendants
assert that such cause of action is not alleged with the required
particularity. 
 
 
ANALYSIS
 
I.          Demurrer
A.               
Meet and Confer Requirement  
            Before filing a demurrer or motion
to strike, the moving party must meet and confer in person, by telephone, or by
video conference with the party who filed the pleading to attempt to reach an
agreement that would resolve the objections to the pleading. (Code Civ. Proc.,
§§ 430.41, 435.5.) “Any determination by the court that the meet and confer
process was insufficient shall not be grounds to overrule or sustain a
demurrer” or to grant or deny a motion to strike. (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 430.41,
subd. (a)(4), 435.5.)
            The Court finds that the meet and
confer requirement has not been met. The respective declarations of John
Karimi, Esq. in support of the demurrer and motion to strike only attest to
corresponding with Plaintiff via e-mail concerning the purported defects in the
FAC. The parties were required to meet and confer in person, by telephone, or
by video conference. The Court will still consider the demurrer and motion to
strike on the merits. 
The parties, however, are reminded to comply with the
requirements of the California Code of Civil Procedure.   
B.        Evidentiary Objections
            The
Court OVERRULES Plaintiff’s evidentiary objections numbers 1-8 to the
declaration of John Karimi, Esq. filed in support of the demurrer. Even if the
Court were to have sustained all of Plaintiff’s evidentiary objections, the
Court’s analysis below would not have been impacted. 
C.        Judicial Notice  
            The Court GRANTS Defendants’ request
for judicial notice and takes judicial notice of the operative FAC, which was
filed in this action on April 16, 2024. (Evid. Code §§ 452, 453.) While the
Court takes judicial notice of the FAC, the Court does not take judicial notice
of the truth of the facts asserted therein. Glaski v. Bank of America (2013)
218 Cal.App.4th 1079, 1090.
D.        Legal Standard 
A demurrer for sufficiency
tests whether the complaint states a cause of action. Hahn v. Mirda (2007)
147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747. In a demurrer proceeding, the defects must be
apparent on the face of the pleading or via proper judicial notice. Donabedian
v. Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994. In assessing a
demurrer, the court “treat[s] the demurrer as admitting all material facts
properly pleaded, but not contentions, deductions or conclusions of law.” Blank
v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311, 318. “The only issue involved in a demurrer
hearing is whether the complaint, as it stands, unconnected with extraneous
matters, states a cause of action.” Hahn v. Mirda, supra, 147
Cal.App.4th at 747.  A complaint will
be upheld against a demurrer if it pleads facts sufficient to place the
defendant on notice of the issues sufficient to enable the defendant to prepare
a defense.  Doe v. City of Los Angeles
(2007) 42 Cal.4th 531, 549-50. “Generally it is an abuse of discretion to
sustain a demurrer without leave to amend if there is any reasonable
possibility that the defect can be cured by amendment.” Goodman v. Kennedy
(1976) 18 Cal.3d 335, 349. A “[p]laintiff must show in what manner he can
amend his complaint and how that amendment will change the legal effect of his
pleading.” Ibid. 
1.         Second Cause of Action for IIED     
 
“The elements of
a prima facie case for the tort of intentional infliction of emotional distress
are: (1) extreme and outrageous conduct by the defendant with the intention of
causing, or reckless disregard of the probability of causing, emotional
distress; (2) the plaintiff’s suffering severe or extreme emotional distress;
and (3) actual and proximate causation of the emotional distress by the
defendant’s outrageous conduct. Conduct to be outrageous must be so extreme as
to exceed all bounds of that usually tolerated in a civilized community.” Wilson v. Hynek (2012) 207 Cal.App.4th 999,
1009, citation and ellipses omitted.
 
The FAC alleges
the following: after experiencing significant dental issues, Plaintiff sought
treatment from Defendants. (FAC, ¶ 5.) On October 14, 2022, Plaintiff had her
initial consultation with Defendant Polyakov and, during such appointment,
Defendants performed an assessment of her dental condition and a CT scan of
Plaintiff’s mouth. (FAC, ¶ 6.) Following the initial consultation, Defendants
scheduled Plaintiff an appointment for December 21, 2022, to perform one dental
implant at the site of tooth number 3 and three bone grafts on teeth numbers
12, 20, and 30. (FAC, ¶ 7.) On or about December 21, 2022, Plaintiff attended
the appointment and Defendant Polyakov claimed to have successfully performed
the dental implant and bone grafts. (FAC, ¶ 8.) Plaintiff alleges that the
December 21, 2022 appointment was profoundly shocking and exceptionally
traumatizing. (FAC, ¶ 9.) Plaintiff alleges that she eventually returned to
Defendant Polyakov for removal of a suture on January 20, 2023, and, over the
next three months, her pain and sensitivity did not improve. (FAC, ¶¶ 10-13.) 
 
Plaintiff
returned to Defendant Polyakov on March 23, 2023, where she explained her pain
and sensitivity; however, Defendant Polyakov did not provide any advice or make
any recommendations to remedy her pain and sensitivity. (FAC, ¶14.) Plaintiff’s
March 23, 2023 visit was her last appointment with Defendant Polyakov. (FAC, ¶
14.) Plaintiff saw another dental provider, Dr. Delram Hannokai, who informed
her that no bone grafting had been performed. (FAC, ¶ 22.) Plaintiff alleges
that Defendant Polyakov did not perform a bone grafting procedure and falsely
claimed otherwise to inflate his billings and increase profits for Defendant
Synergy. (FAC, ¶ 24.) 
 
            The
Court finds that Plaintiff has failed to state sufficient facts to constitute a
cause of action for IIED. (FAC, ¶¶ 38-45.) Plaintiff merely alleges that she
suffered severe emotional distress in a conclusory manner but does not
articulate the symptoms or manifestations of such emotional distress. (FAC, ¶
40.) Additionally, the Court finds that neither Defendants’ refusal to
investigate her chronic pains nor Defendant Polyakov’s demeaning demeanor and
dismissive attitude regarding her chronic pain constitute extreme and
outrageous conduct. (FAC, ¶ 39.) 
 
            The Court therefore SUSTAINS
Defendants’ demurrer to the second cause of action in the FAC with leave to
amend. 
 
2.         Third Cause of Action for Intentional
Misrepresentation      
 
            “The
elements of a cause of action for intentional misrepresentation are (1) a
misrepresentation, (2) with knowledge of its falsity, (3) with the intent to
induce another’s reliance on the misrepresentation, (4) actual and justifiable
reliance, and (5) resulting damage.” Daniels
v. Select Portfolio Servicing, Inc. (2016) 246 Cal.App.4th 1150, 1166.
The facts constituting the alleged fraud must be alleged factually and
specifically as to every element of fraud, as the policy of “liberal
construction” of the pleadings will not ordinarily be invoked. Lazar v. Superior Court (1996) 12 Cal.4th
631, 645. To properly allege fraud against a corporation, the
plaintiffs must plead the names of the persons allegedly making the false
representations, their authority to speak, to whom they spoke, what they said
or wrote, and when it was said or written. Tarmann v. State Farm Mut. Auto. Ins. Co. (1991) 2 Cal.App.4th 153, 157.
 
            Here, the
Court finds that the third cause of action for intentional misrepresentation is
insufficiently alleged. (FAC, ¶¶ 46-50.) The third cause of action is much too
conclusory and is not alleged with the required specificity. Moreover,
Defendant Synergy is a corporation and Plaintiff has not alleged when or by
what means the alleged false representations were made, or the authority of the
party or person making the purported misrepresentations on behalf of Defendant
Synergy. (FAC, ¶¶ 46-50.) 
 
            As such, the third cause of action
for intentional misrepresentation in the FAC is deficient and the Court
SUSTAINS Defendants’ demurrer thereto with leave to amend. 
 
 
 
 
II.        Motion to Strike
 
            Defendants
move to strike punitive damages allegations from the FAC, as well as from the
prayer for relief in the FAC. 
 
“Any party,
within the time allowed to respond to a pleading may serve and file a notice of
motion to strike the whole or any part thereof.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 435, subd.
(b)(1).) A court may “[s]trike out any irrelevant, false, or improper matter
inserted in any pleading.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 436, subd. (a).) A court may
“[s]trike out all or any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity
with the laws of this state, a court rule, or an order of the court.” (Code
Civ. Proc., § 436, subd. (b).) 
 
            “In
order to survive a motion to strike an allegation of punitive damages, the
ultimate facts showing an entitlement to such relief must be pled by a
plaintiff.” Clauson v. Superior Court (1998) 67 Cal.App.4th 1253, 1255.
Civ. Code § 3294 authorizes punitive damages upon a showing of malice, fraud,
or oppression. Malice is defined as either “conduct which is intended by the
defendant to cause injury to the plaintiff,” or “despicable conduct which is
carried on by the defendant with a willful and conscious disregard of the
rights or safety of others.” (Civ. Code, § 3294, subd. (c)(1).) “Despicable
conduct is conduct which is so vile, base, contemptible, miserable, wretched or
loathsome that it would be looked down upon and despised by ordinary decent
people.” Mock v. Michigan Millers Mutual Ins. Co. (1992) 4 Cal. App. 4th
306, 331.  Fraud under Civ. Code §
3294(c)(3) “means an intentional misrepresentation, deceit, or concealment of a
material fact known to the defendant with the intention on the part of the
defendant of thereby depriving a person of property or legal rights or
otherwise causing injury.” Civ. Code § 3294(c)(2) defines oppression as
“despicable conduct that subjects a person to cruel and unjust hardship in
conscious disregard of that person’s rights.” 
Specific facts must be alleged in support of punitive damages. Hillard
v. A.H. Robins Co. (1983) 148 Cal.App.3d 374, 391-392. Facts must be pled
to show that a defendant “act[ed] with the intent to vex, injure or annoy, or
with a conscious disregard of the plaintiff’s rights.” Silberg v. California
Life Ins. Co. (1974) 11 Cal.3d 452, 462. 
 
            Initially,
the Court notes that Plaintiff has not complied with CCP § 425.13. “In any
action for damages arising out of the professional negligence of a healthcare
provider, no claim for punitive damages shall be included in a complaint or
other pleading unless the court enters an order allowing an amended pleading
that includes a claim for punitive damages to be filed.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 425.13,
subd. (a).) A provider of dental services is deemed a healthcare provider.
(Civ. Code, § 3333.1, subd. (a).) 
 
            Here,
Plaintiff was not given leave of court to include a claim for punitive damages.
Moreover, given that the second and third causes of action have been deemed
deficient, Plaintiff does not have a cause of action to support punitive
damages. Additionally, Plaintiff does not state sufficient specific facts
showing malice, fraud, or oppression. 
 
            Accordingly,
the Court GRANTS the motion to strike with leave to amend. 
 
 
III.       Conclusion 
 
            In sum, Defendants’ Demurrer to the second and third
causes of action in the First Amended Complaint is SUSTAINED with 20 days leave
to amend. 
 
            Defendants’ Motion to Strike is GRANTED
with 20 days leave to amend. 
 
  The Moving Party is ordered to give
notice and to attach a copy of the Court’s Tentative Ruling, as an exhibit “A”
to said notice, as the final order of the Court.   
 
 