

 
BACKGROUND
 
On January 30, 2024, Plaintiff Covina Hills MHC
(“Plaintiff”) filed this action against Defendants Eugenia Souza, Jermaine D.
Souza, Julio Javier Romo, Francis Vinula, and Does 1 through 100, alleging
causes of action for: (1) Declaration of Mobile Home Abandoned; (2) Open Book
Account; (3) Breach of Implied in Fact Contract; (4) Common Counts; (5)
Declaratory Relief; (6) Breach of Written Contract; and (7) Intentional
Misrepresentation. 
 
On February 13, 2024, Plaintiff filed Proof of Service of
Summons indicating that Defendant Eugenia Souza was served by substituted
service on February 3, 2024 at 3839 Amanda Street #105, West Covina, CA 91792,
which is the home of Defendant Eugenia Souza. Attached to the proof of service
is a declaration of diligence. The proof of service was executed by a registered
California process server named Elias Elhayek. 
 
On February 27, 2024, Defendant Eugenia V. Souza
(“Defendant”) filed the instant Motion to Quash Summons and Complaint or, Alternatively,
Motion for Lack of and Defective Service of Process. 
 
On May 20, 2024, Plaintiff filed and served an opposition
to the motion to quash. 
 
As of June 17, 2024, no reply brief has been filed. Any
reply brief was required to have been filed and served at least five court days
prior to the hearing pursuant to CCP § 1005(b). 
 
 
MOVING
PARTY POSITION
 
            Defendant
argues that the summons should be quashed because the summons, complaint, and
related attachments were mailed to her instead of being personally served at
her correct address. 
 
OPPOSITION
 
            On
opposition, Plaintiff argues that the motion should be denied because Defendant
was properly served.  
 
REPLY
 
            As of June
17, 2024, no reply brief has been filed.  
 
 
ANALYSIS
 
I.          Motion
to Quash Service of Summons and Complaint
A.               
Legal Standard 
            “A defendant
who takes the position that the service of summons as made upon him did not
bring him within the jurisdiction of the court, may serve and file a notice of
motion to quash the service.” Coulston v. Cooper (1966) 245 Cal.App.2d 866,
868. “The effect of such notice is to place upon the plaintiff the burden
of proving the facts that did give the court jurisdiction, that is the facts
requisite to an effective service.” Ibid. “A defendant, on or before the
last day of his or her time to plead or within any further time that the court
may for good cause allow, may serve and file a notice of motion . . . [t]o
quash service of summons on the ground of lack of jurisdiction of the court
over him or her.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 418.10, subd. (a)(1).) Personal service
is accomplished when a copy of the summons and complaint is delivered to the
person to be served. (Code Civ. Proc., § 415.10.)
           “[T]he filing of a proof of service
creates a rebuttable presumption that . . . service was proper.” Dill v.
Berquist Construction Co. (1994) 24 Cal.App.4th 1426, 1441. “[A] registered
process server’s declaration establishes a presumption affecting the burden of
producing evidence of the facts stated in the declaration.” American Express
Centurion Bank v. Zara (2011) 199 Cal.App.4th 383, 390. “[A] registered
process server’s declaration of service establishes a presumption that the
facts stated in the declaration are true.” Rodriguez v. Cho (2015) 236
Cal.App.4th 742, 750. A court is “not required to accept . . . self-serving
evidence contradicting the process server’s declaration.” Id. at p. 751.  
“In lieu of personal delivery of a copy of the
summons and complaint to the person to be served . . . a summons may be served
by leaving a copy of the summons and complaint during usual office hours in his
or her office or, if no physical address is known, at his or her usual mailing
address, other than a United States Postal Service post office box, with the
person who is apparently in charge thereof, and by thereafter mailing a copy of
the summons and complaint by first-class mail, postage prepaid to the person to
be served at the place where a copy of the summons and complaint were left.”
(Code Civ. Proc., § 415.20, subd. (a).)
           “If a copy of the summons and
complaint cannot with reasonable diligence be personally delivered to the
person to be served . . . a summons may be served by leaving a copy of  the summons and complaint at the person’s
dwelling house, usual place of abode, usual business, or usual mailing address
other than a United States Postal Service post office box, in the presence of a
competent member of the household or a person apparently in charge of his or
her office, place of business, or usual mailing address other than a United
States Postal Service post office box, at least 18 years of age, who shall be
informed of the contents thereof, and by thereafter mailing a copy of the
summons and complaint by first-class mail, postage prepaid to the person to be
served at the place where a copy of the summons and complaint were left.” (Code
Civ. Proc., § 415.20, subd. (b).) 
B.        Discussion
            Defendant declares the following: the
attempt to serve was an improper, illegal, and invalid substituted service of
process, and Plaintiff failed to provide the proper notice. (Souza Decl., ¶¶
4-5.) No attempts for valid personal service were made by a registered process
server on all defendants named in the Complaint. (Souza Decl., ¶ 6.) Defendant
states that the due diligence declaration indicated the attempt at personal
service was not done on all or any of the defendants at the proper place.
(Souza Decl., ¶ 7.) No certified mailing with return receipt for all of the
defendants was effectuated after the alleged ineffective service attempts to
prove a disputed mailing action ever taking place. (Souza Decl., ¶ 8.) Since
notice was not properly served, Defendant argues that Plaintiff cannot legally
commence any legal action and that Plaintiff did not effectuate valid
substitute service of process. (Souza Decl., ¶ 9.) Defendant argues that no one
is authorized to accept service of process on her behalf at any former or
existing location that she used to or even currently operates her business.
(Souza Decl., ¶ 9.) According to Defendant, since there was a failure to serve
in this action, the process should be voided and invalidated. (Souza Decl., ¶
10.) 
            In
opposition to the motion, Elias Eihayek (“Eihayek”) declares that he is a
licensed process server, and he served Defendant at her home located at 3839
Amanda Street #105, West Covina, California on February 3, 2024. (Eihayek
Decl., ¶ 2; Exh. 1.) 
            According to the proof of service, Mr.
Eihayek made two attempts to serve Defendant individually by personal service.
(Eihayek Decl., ¶ 2; Exh. 1.) Plaintiff has therefore shown reasonable
diligence as “two or three attempts at personal service at a proper place
should fully satisfy the requirement of reasonable diligence and allow
substituted service to be made.” Espindola v. Nunez (1988) 199 Cal.App.3d
1389, 1392. Furthermore, a successful substituted service was made on
February 3, 2024 at 3:35 p.m. by delivering the documents to Novato Arcel.  
Thereafter, on February 6, 2024, copies of the documents were mailed to the
person to be served at the place where the copies were left (Code Civ. Proc.
§415.20).  Defendant has not provided any
evidence that the address on the proof of service is not her home address.
Moreover, the Court is not required to accept Defendant’s self-serving
declaration. 
            As
such, the Court finds it appropriate to deny the motion. 
II.        Conclusion 
 
            Defendant Eugenia V. Souza’s Motion to
Quash Summons and Complaint or, Alternatively, Motion to Dismiss Entire Action
for Lack of and Defective Service of Process is DENIED.  
 
            Defendant Eugenia V. Souza, sued as Eugenia Souza, is ordered to file her
Answer or responsive pleading to Plaintiff’s Complaint within 30 days.  
 
The Moving Party is ordered to give
notice and to attach a copy of the Court’s Tentative Ruling, as an exhibit “A”
to said notice, as the final order of the Court.   
 