

 
 
SERVICE: 

 
[X] Proof of Service Timely
Filed (CRC 3.1300)                  OK
[X] Correct Address (CCP 1013,
1013a)                               OK
[X] 75/80 Day Lapse (CCP 12c
and 1005 (b))                       OK
 
OPPOSITION:                      Filed on May 8, 2024  
                       [   ] Late                      [   ] None
REPLY:                                                                                             [   ] Late                      [
X ] None
 
SUPP. DEF. OPPO:                                                                          [   ] Late                      [X
] None
SUPP. PLF. REPLY:                                                                        [   ] Late                      [X
] None
 
ANALYSIS:
 
I.                   
Background

 
On January 25. 2023, Plaintiff Keith McComb (“McComb”)
filed an action against Defendant Oceangate Property, LLC (“Oceangate”); and
Defendant Ralphs Grocery Company (“Ralphs”) (collectively, “Defendants”) for a
single cause of action: (1) violation of the Unruh Civil Rights Act (Civil Code
Section 51.)
 
 
 
Defendants filed the instant Motion for Summary Judgment
on April 3, 2024, along with a Separate Statement, a Request for Judicial
Notice, a Proposed Judgment, and the declarations of Michael J. Chilleen
(“Chilleen Decl.”), Defendants’ attorney, and Evette McKinney, Defendant
Ralphs’ Claims Litigator.
 
On May 8, 2024, Plaintiff filed his Opposition;
Plaintiff’s Response to Defendant’s Separate Statement; Plaintiff’s Objection
to evidence submitted in the McKinney Declaration; and Plaintiff’s Proposed
Order on the Objection. 
 
On May 28, 2024, Plaintiff filed a Notice of
Nonappearance for the upcoming hearing on Defendants’ instant Motion for
Summary Judgment, informing the Court he will not be appearing and submits the
matter without appearance. Pursuant to California Rules of Court 3.1304(c), “a
party may give notice that he or she will not appear at a law and motion
hearing and submit the matter without an appearance unless the court orders
otherwise. The court must rule on the motion as if the party had appeared.”
Accordingly, the Court will rule on the instant motion as if Plaintiff would be
appearing.
 
 
II.                
Legal
Standard 
 
A party seeking summary judgment has the burden of
producing evidentiary facts sufficient to entitle him/her to judgment as a
matter of law. (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (c); Vesely v. Sager (1971) 5 Cal.3d 153.) The moving party must make an
affirmative showing that he/she is entitled to judgment irrespective of whether
or not the opposing party files an opposition. (Villa v. McFerren (1995) 35 Cal.App.4th 733.)
 
When a Defendant or Cross-Defendant seeks summary
judgment, he/she must show either
(1) that one or more elements of the cause of action cannot be established; or (2) that there is a complete
defense to that cause of action. (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (p)(2).) When
a Plaintiff or Cross-Complainant seeks summary judgment, he/she must produce
admissible evidence on each element of each cause of action on which judgment
is sought. (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (p)(1).) The moving party’s
“affidavits must cite evidentiary facts, not legal conclusions or ‘ultimate’
facts” and be strictly construed. (Scalf
v. D. B. Log Homes, Inc. (2005) 128 Cal.App.4th 1510, 1519; Hayman v. Block (1986) 176 Cal.App.3d
629, 639.) 
 
            The opposing party on a motion for
summary judgment is under no evidentiary burden to produce rebuttal evidence
until the moving party meets his or her initial movant’s burden. (Binder v. Aetna Life Insurance Company (1999)
75 Cal.App.4th 832.) Once the initial movant’s burden is met, then the burden
shifts to the opposing party to show, with admissible evidence, that there is a
triable issue requiring the weighing procedures of trial. (Code Civ. Proc., §
437c, subd. (p).) The opposing party may not simply rely on his/her allegations
to show a triable issue but must present evidentiary facts that are substantial
in nature and rise beyond mere speculation. (Sangster v. Paetkau (1998) 68 Cal.App.4th 151.) As to any
alternative request for summary adjudication of issues, such alternative relief
must be clearly set forth in the Notice of Motion and the general burden-shifting
rules apply but the issues upon which summary adjudication may be sought are
limited by statute. (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (f)(1).) “A motion for
summary adjudication shall be granted only if it completely disposes of a cause
of action, an affirmative defense, a claim for damages, or an issue of duty.”
(Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (f)(1).)
 
III.             
Defendant’s
Request for Judicial Notice
Pursuant
to Section 452 and 453 of the California Evidence Code, Defendants request
that the Court take judicial notice of a list of prior lawsuits filed by
Plaintiff, Exhibit A. 
The Court grants Defendants’ request and takes
judicial notice of Exhibit A, only as to the existence of the list and not any
substance therein. 
The Court would also like to clarify that pursuant
to California Code of Civil Procedure (“CCP”) §§425.50-425.55, a high frequency
litigant is defined as:
(b) For the purposes of this article,
“high-frequency litigant” means a person, except as specified in paragraph
(3), who utilizes court resources in actions arising from alleged
construction-related access violations at such a high level that it is
appropriate that additional safeguards apply so as to ensure that the claims
are warranted. A “high-frequency litigant” means one or more of the following:
(1) A plaintiff who has filed 10 or
more complaints alleging a construction-related accessibility violation
within the 12-month period immediately preceding the filing of the
current complaint alleging a construction-related accessibility violation.
Thus, while the Court grants Defendant’s request
for judicial notice, the Court finds that Plaintiff McComb’s prior litigant
history is not consequential in the ruling of the instant motion. Moreover,
Plaintiff does not constitute a “high frequency litigant” pursuant to sections
§§425.50-425.55 because Exhibit A does not provide that Plaintiff has filed ten
or more complaints alleging a construction-related accessibility violation
within the 12-month period immediately preceding the filing of the instant
complaint. 
As such, Plaintiffs who are not high frequency
litigants in construction-related accessibility violation cases are not
required to make the compliance statements necessitated by § 452.50(a)(4)(A).
IV.             
Plaintiff’s
Objections 
Plaintiff
objects to Defendants’ declaration of Evette McKinney whereby McKinney declares
that Defendants’ employees are “trained to assist all customers” and provides
examples as to how Defendants could have assisted Plaintiff on the day he was
on Defendants’ premises. (McKinney
Decl., at 1:10-17, ¶ 3.) Plaintiff objects on the grounds that the statement is
irrelevant, constitutes hearsay, lacks foundation as to personal knowledge, and
is speculative. The Court overrules Plaintiff’s objection, as McKinney is
asserting her own personal knowledge of the subject store’s training regarding
accommodating patrons with disabilities. Thus, the objection is overruled.
Plaintiff also objects to
Defendants’ Separate Statement of Undisputed Material Facts and Supporting
evidence. 
The Court rules Plaintiff’s
objection as to item 5 is sustained and Plaintiff’s objections as to as to
items 6-9 are overruled. 
V.               
Discussion

 
A. Plaintiffs’ Allegations
 
Plaintiff’s Complaint alleges
Plaintiff McComb has been unable to work and confined in a wheelchair and that
on November 29, 2022, Plaintiff experienced difficulty at Defendants’ premises
of public accommodation while using Defendants’ restroom. (Compl., ¶ ¶ 2-5.)
Plaintiff had difficulty using the bathroom sink because the sink’s drainpipe
was not insulated or configured to protect against contact. (Compl., ¶ 5.) 
 
Plaintiff contends that drain pipe’s
exposure served as an architectural barrier. Moreover, removing such
architectural barrier by insulating the sink drain pipe is a readily available
remedy because it is easily accomplishable and able to be carried out without
much difficulty or expense. (Compl., ¶ 6.) It is upon Plaintiff’s information
and belief that it would take less than an hour and cost less than $500 to
accomplish this and that each Defendant’s annual income exceeds $100,000. (Id.)
Thus, by violating 42 U.S.C. § 12182 and 28 C.F.R. § 36.304, Defendants
violated Civil Code Section 51. (Id., ¶ 7.)
 
Accordingly, Plaintiff prays for damages pursuant to
Civil Code section 52(a) in the amount of $4,000, as well as reasonable
attorney fees and costs. (Id.)
 
Plaintiff verifies the Complaint and its contents by
declaring under penalty of perjury under the laws of the State of California
that the foregoing is true and correct. 
 
The Court notes that Plaintiff does not provide the
language of the law from the foregoing legal authority cited therein.
 
 
 
 
 
B. Defendants’ Motion
 
Defendants seek an order granting
summary judgment, or in the alternative, summary adjudication in its favor
arguing that Plaintiff cannot establish a prima facie case under the
Unruh Act because Plaintiff: (1) cannot prove that the unwrapped pipes caused
him any difficulty; and (2) cannot fabricate a lawsuit by not asking for
assistance. (Mot. Summary Judgment (“MSJ”), pp. 5-6.) Additionally, Defendant
argues that Plaintiff’s Unruh Act claim fails because Plaintiff cannot prove a
denial of access.
 
            1. Unruh
Act 
Defendants
provide that in order to establish a prima facie case under the
Unruh Act, Plaintiff must show that: (1) Plaintiff is a
qualified individual with a disability; (2) Defendants owned, leased, or
operated a place of public accommodation; (3) the place of public accommodation
was in violation of one or more construction-related accessibility standards;
(4) the violations denied Plaintiff full and equal access to the place of
public accommodation; (5) the violations were personally encountered by Plaintiff
on a particular occasion; (6) Plaintiff experienced difficulty, discomfort or
embarrassment due to the violations; and (7) Plaintiff had a bona fide intent to
visit the place of public accommodation, rather than to check the business for
accessibility violations. See, e.g.,
Surrey v. TrueBeginnings, 168
Cal.App.4th 414 (2009); Mundy v.
Pro-Thro Enterprises, 192
Cal.App.4th Supp. 1 (2011); Reycraft v.
Lee, 177 Cal.App.4th 1211
(2009); Munson v. Del Taco, 46 Cal.4th 661 (2009); Cal. Civ. Code §55.56; White v. Square, Inc., 7 Cal.5th 1019 (2019); Thurston v. Omni Hotels Management Corp., 69 Cal.App.5th 299 (2021). (MSJ, p. 6.)
With respect to element three (3), Defendants
assert that a claim under the Unruh Act may be premised either
upon a violation of the accessibility standards of the ADA or upon a violation
of the accessibility standards of the California Building Code (“CBC”). See Cal. Civ. Code
§ 54; Cal. Health & Safety Code, § 19955, Cal. Code Regs Title 24 §
1134B.1.2; see also, e.g., Pickern v. Best Western Timber Cove Lodge Marina
Resort 194 F.Supp.2d 1128, 1131 fn. 4, (E.D. Cal. 2002); Mannick v.
Kaiser Foundation Health Plan, Inc., 2006 WL 2168877, *16 (N.D. Cal. 2006) (“Under the
CDPA, a plaintiff can show either that the ADA was violated, or that the
facility in question does not comply with the California Building Code
requirements for disabled access.”). Defendant concludes that if Plaintiff is
basing his Unruh Act claim on accessibility standards under the California Building
Code that are different from the accessibility standards under the ADA, then he
must also prove that the discrimination was intentional. See, e.g.,
Munson v. Del Taco, 46 Cal.4th 661 (2009). Defendant argues Plaintiff
cannot prove the alleged discrimination was intentional.
 
 
2. Denial of Access
Defendants
also argue that to prove a “denial of access” under the Unruh Act based on a
violation of an accessibility standard, Plaintiff must prove that he was a bona
fide patron and that the violation caused him “difficulty, embarrassment, or
discomfort.” Cal. Civ. Code §55.56. (MSJ, p. 8.) Defendants then argue that
pursuant to a plethora of case law, Plaintiff cannot argue a denial of access
because the following cases demonstrate that courts found there was no denial
of access in circumstances whereby plaintiffs experienced delay in receiving
access to their entitled disability accommodations: Hardy v. California, 2006 WL
563049 (N.D. Cal. 2006); Cohen v. Ralphs Grocery Company, Case No.
12E10780 (Los Ang. Sup. Ct. Sept. 18, 2014) Skaff v. Meredien North
America Beverly Hills, LLC, 506 F.3d 832 (9th Cir. 2007); Anderson v.
Ross Stores, Inc., 2009 WL 1585269 (N.D. Cal. 2000); Frankeberger
v. Starwood Hotels and Resorts Worldwide, Inc., 2010 WL 2217871 (W.D.
Wash. 2010); O’Connor v. Scottsdale Healthcare Corp., 871
F.Supp.2d 900 (D.C. Ariz. 2012).
However, the
Court finds the foregoing caselaw is inapposite for a number of reasons.
Firstly, the foregoing cases are not binding authority on this Court because
they consist of federal cases, other state level superior court cases, and
cases from other states. Additionally, the facts in many of the cases appear
distinguishable on the face of Defendant’s instant motion because they include
a plaintiff requesting the accompaniment of a service dog in a hospital; the
accessibility of the California DMV when a plaintiff with disabilities was not
able to wait in line without being provided a chair to sit in; a woman who was
blind requesting the assistance of her husband at a retail store in the fitting
rooms; and disabled plaintiffs who had to wait approximately 16 minutes for
assistance in operating a wheelchair lift. 
3. Proving Unwrapped Pipes Caused Plaintiff Difficulty
Defendants
assert that conclusory allegations of experiencing difficulty, embarrassment,
or discomfort due to alleged access barriers are insufficient as a matter of
law to support an award of damages under the Unruh Act. See e.g., Doran v. 7-Eleven, Inc., 509 F. App'x 647,648 (9th Cir. 2013) (affirming
district court’s denial of statutory damages under the Unruh Act to a plaintiff
who did not make the requisite showing of difficulty, discomfort, or
embarrassment); Ghadiri v.
Home Depot, 2020 WL
4760185, *3 (C.D. Cal. May 21, 2020) (Plaintiff’s conclusory statement that he
personally encountered inaccessible parking lot was insufficient to establish
entitlement to damages). 
Defendants provide that Plaintiff cannot show that the purported
unwrapped pipes caused him “difficulty, embarrassment, or discomfort.” (MSJ,
pg. 11.) Plaintiff conceded at deposition that he could have simply touched the
pipes with his hands to see if they were hot but did not. (Plaintiff’s Depo. at
83:3-7). Thus, Plaintiff cannot just assume the pipes are hot and then choose
not to wash his hands to fabricate a lawsuit. (MSJ, pg. 11.)
Here, the Court again finds that Defendants are relying on case law that
is not binding on this Court. Nevertheless, the Court agrees that conclusory
allegations of difficulty, embarrassment, or discomfort are insufficient to
support an award for damages if Defendants meet their burden of demonstrating
that either (1) one or more elements of the cause of action cannot be
established or (2) that there is a complete defense as to that cause of action.
If Defendants do meet their initial movant’s burden, Plaintiff must then meet
his burden of demonstrating, with admissible evidence, that there is a triable
issue requiring the weighing procedures of trial pursuant to CCP § 437c, subd. (p) and Plaintiff may
not simply rely on his allegations to meet such burden.
Thus, the Court must first determine if Defendants have
met their burden before determining if the burden has shifted to Plaintiff and
if Plaintiff has provided admissible evidence beyond mere allegations. In sum,
Defendants are arguing that Plaintiff has failed to meet elements three (3) and
six (6) of the Unruh Act, (3) construction-related violations of one or more
accessibility standards; and (6) Plaintiff experienced difficulty, discomfort or embarrassment due to the
violations, respectively). However, such arguments must first be weighed in
consideration of Plaintiff’s opposing arguments before determining if
Defendants have demonstrated either one or more elements of the Plaintiff’s
Unruh cause of action fails. Defendants do not assert a complete defense and,
thus, cannot meet their initial burden without negating an element of
Plaintiff’s Unruh cause of action. 
4. Plaintiff’s
Opposition
In Opposition, Plaintiff argues
that Defendants’ motion is premised upon the erroneous argument that
Plaintiff’s failure to request assistance or removal of the architectural
barrier while using Defendants’ bathroom is fatal to his case. (Opp., pg. 3.)
Plaintiff argues Defendants’ contention is misguided for three primary reasons.
First, (1) requiring
a disabled person to ask a stranger to help him use a bathroom is an extreme
invasion of bodily autonomy and privacy rights. Second, (2) requiring a
disabled person to ask a stranger to help him use a bathroom would violate
other ADA provisions, including 42 U.S.C. § 12182(b)(1)(A)(ii) (“unequal
benefit”), (b)(1)(D) (discriminatory “standards or criteria or methods of
administration”), and (b)(2)(A)(ii) (discriminatory “policies, practices, or
procedures”), as well as 28 C.F.R. §§ 36.202(b) (“unequal benefit”), 36.204
(discriminatory “standards or criteria or methods of administration”), and
36.302(a) (discriminatory “policies, practices, or procedures”). Third, (3) none
of the laws forming the basis for Plaintiff’s claim require him to seek
assistance or removal of an architectural barrier that should have been removed
before Plaintiff arrived at Defendants’ premises. (Opp.,
pg. 3.)
Plaintiff
also asserts binding authority, providing that “discrimination” under the ADA
includes “a failure to remove architectural barriers . . . in existing facilities
. . . where such removal is readily achievable.” (42 U.S.C. §
12182(b)(2)(A)(iv); see Madden v. Del Taco, Inc. (2007)
150 Cal.App.4th 294, 302.) Moreover, Architectural
barriers are “physical elements of a facility that impede access by people with
disabilities. These barriers include more than obvious impediments such as
steps and curbs that prevent access by people who use wheelchairs.” (Californians for Disability Rights v. Mervyn's LLC (2008) 165 Cal.App.4th 571, 590.) Any element in a
facility that does not meet the standards set forth in the ADA Standards for
Accessible Design is considered a barrier to access. (Skaff v. Rio Nido Roadhouse (2020) 55 Cal.App.5th 522, 534.) As
relevant here, a public accommodation’s failure to insulate or configure sink
pipes to protect against contact can result in an architectural barrier to the
disabled. (28 C.F.R. § 36.304(b)(14); 1991 ADA Standards for Accessible Design,
§ 4.19.4 [ada.gov/law-and-regs/design- standards/1991-design-standards]; 2010
ADA Standards for Accessible Design, § 606.5
[ada.gov/law-and-regs/design-standards/2010-stds].) 
The Court agrees with Plaintiff that Defendants’
denial of access argument is inapposite. Although Defendants are arguing that
under element three, Plaintiff cannot show intentional discrimination or that
there was a denial of access, the foregoing case law is clear that any element
in a facility that does not meet the standard set forth by the ADA Standards
for Accessible Design is considered barrier, and thus, a denial of access. The
Court finds that in such cases, the need to demonstrate intentional discrimination
is not necessary because the California Supreme Court has held so:
“Although we held in Harris v. Capital Growth Investors XIV (1991)
52 Cal.3d 1142, 1175, 278 Cal.Rptr. 614, 805 P.2d 873 (Harris )
that proof of intentional discrimination was necessary to establish a violation
of the Unruh
Civil Rights Act, the Legislature subsequently added subdivision (f) to Civil
Code section 51, specifying that “[a] violation of the right of any individual
under the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990” (ADA)—which does not
necessarily require a plaintiff  to show
intentional discrimination—“shall also constitute a violation of this section.” (Munson v. Del Taco, Inc., 46 Cal. 4th 661, 664–65, 208 P.3d 623, 624–25 (2009).)
For the foregoing reasons, Defendants have not negated Plaintiff was
denied equal access and the Court finds Plaintiff has asserted sufficient case
law demonstrating he was denied equal access due to a construction-related
accessibility violation. 
Finally, the Court must determine if Defendants met
their burden of demonstrating Plaintiff failed to show difficulty, discomfort,
or embarrassment due to the violations. Regardless of whether Defendant is
correct that Plaintiff’s initial pleadings were conclusory as to this element,
the Court finds Plaintiff has pleaded sufficient arguments in his Opposition
addressing this element. Plaintiff argues that the purpose of the
aforementioned law instructing that architectural barriers be removed is so
that disabled persons can use a public accommodations’ facilities
independently. Plaintiff’s argument that necessitating that Plaintiff ask for
assistance in a bathroom so that Plaintiff can wash his hands (as opposed to
removing the architectural barrier) can reasonably be seen as a violation of a
person’s bodily autonomy and therefore, embarrassing and a source of
difficulty. Moreover, it means Plaintiff is unable to avail himself to the
facilities of the restroom in the same way an able-bodied individual is because
Plaintiff cannot reasonably do so without requesting assistance. The Court
agrees that this can easily be remedied through Defendants’ compliance with
accessibility design standards, as provided. 
As such, Defendants do not meet their burden in demonstrating
Plaintiff’s pleadings fail as to any of the elements in the Unruh claim and the
Court further finds Plaintiff’s opposition provides additional argument and
support. 
 
VI.             
Conclusion
& Order 
 
For the foregoing reasons, Defendants’
Motion for Summary Judgment is DENIED. 
The Moving Party is ordered to give
notice and to attach a copy of the Court’s Tentative Ruling, as an exhibit “A”
to said notice, as the final order of the Court.   
 
 
 