

 
BACKGROUND
 
This
action arises from the alleged breach of a lease agreement. On October 25,
2023, Plaintiff Lorie Jones (“Plaintiff”) filed a Complaint against Defendant
Matthais Hong alleging causes of action for: (1) Breach of Contract; and (2)
Common Counts. The Complaint is set forth on a Form PLD-C-001. 
 
On November 30, 2023, Defendant Matthias Hong (erroneously
sued as Matthais Hong) (“Defendant”) filed the instant unopposed demurrer and
motion to strike. Defendant demurs to the first and second causes of action in
the Complaint. Defendant also moves to strike the prayer for punitive damages
from the Complaint. 
 
As of
June 17, 2024, both the demurrer and motion to strike are unopposed. 
 
The Court notes that there is no proof of service
pertaining to the motion to strike. Defendant only filed a proof of service as
to the demurrer.  As such, the Court
assumes that Plaintiff did not receive notice of the motion to strike. 
 
MOVING PARTY
POSITION
 
            Defendant
demurs to the Complaint on the grounds that the first and second causes of
action fail to state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action. As to
the breach of contract cause of action, Defendant argues that while a written
agreement is attached as an exhibit and its material terms are therefore
adequately pleaded, the breach of contract is not tied to any obligation of
Defendant as set forth in the written agreement. As to the common counts cause
of action, Defendant contends that such cause of action omits an amount that is
being claimed and is therefore deficient. Concerning the motion to strike,
Defendant argues that the Complaint does not state sufficient facts to support
punitive damages.   
 
OPPOSITION
 
            None as of June
17, 2024.  
 
REPLY
 
            None as of June
17, 2024.
 
 
ANALYSIS
 
I.          Demurrer
A.               
Meet and Confer Requirement  
            Before
filing a demurrer or motion to strike, the moving party must meet and confer in
person, by telephone, or by video conference with the party who filed the
pleading to attempt to reach an agreement that would resolve the objections to
the pleading. (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 430.41, 435.5.) “Any determination by the
court that the meet and confer process was insufficient shall not be grounds to
overrule or sustain a demurrer” or to grant or deny a motion to strike. (Code
Civ. Proc., §§ 430.41, subd. (a)(4), 435.5.)
            In
support of the demurrer and motion to strike, Defendant’s counsel, H.G. Long
(“Long”), provides a declaration. Counsel declares that on November 21, 2023, a
meet and confer letter was sent to Plaintiff as to the basis for the demurrer
and motion to strike. (Long Decl., ¶ 3.) On November 28, 2023, Plaintiff called
counsel in response to the meet and confer letter and counsel inquired if
Plaintiff would amend her complaint. (Long Decl., ¶ 4.) Plaintiff responded
that she would not amend the complaint. (Long Decl., ¶ 4.) 
            The Court finds that the meet and
confer requirement has been met. 
B.        Legal Standard 
A demurrer for sufficiency
tests whether the complaint states a cause of action. Hahn v. Mirda (2007)
147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747. In a demurrer proceeding, the defects must be
apparent on the face of the pleading or via proper judicial notice. Donabedian
v. Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994. In assessing a
demurrer, the court “treat[s] the demurrer as admitting all material facts
properly pleaded, but not contentions, deductions or conclusions of law.” Blank
v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311, 318. “The only issue involved in a demurrer
hearing is whether the complaint, as it stands, unconnected with extraneous
matters, states a cause of action.” Hahn v. Mirda, supra, 147
Cal.App.4th at 747.  A complaint will
be upheld against a demurrer if it pleads facts sufficient to place the
defendant on notice of the issues sufficient to enable the defendant to prepare
a defense.  Doe v. City of Los Angeles
(2007) 42 Cal.4th 531, 549-50. “Generally it is an abuse of discretion to
sustain a demurrer without leave to amend if there is any reasonable
possibility that the defect can be cured by amendment.” Goodman v. Kennedy
(1976) 18 Cal.3d 335, 349. A “[p]laintiff must show in what manner he can
amend his complaint and how that amendment will change the legal effect of his
pleading.” Ibid. 
1.         First Cause of Action for Breach of
Contract    
 
To state a cause of action for
breach of contract, Plaintiff must be able to establish “(1) the existence of
the contract, (2) plaintiff’s performance or excuse for nonperformance, (3)
defendant’s breach, and (4) the resulting damages to the plaintiff.” Oasis West Realty, LLC v. Goldman (2011) 51
Cal.4th 811, 821.
 
If a breach of
contract claim “is based on alleged breach of a written contract, the terms
must be set out verbatim in the body of the complaint or a copy of the written
agreement must be attached and incorporated by reference.” Harris v. Rudin, Richman & Appel (1999)
74 Cal.App.4th 299, 307. In some circumstances, a plaintiff may also
“plead the legal effect of the contract rather than its precise language.” Construction Protective Services, Inc. v.
TIG Specialty Ins. Co. (2002) 29 Cal.4th 189, 198-199.
 
Pursuant to the
first cause of action, Plaintiff alleges that Defendant was paid $2,506.49 for
security deposit, Defendant was paid $10,000.00 for rental payments on or
around June of 2022, and Defendant was paid $25,000.00 to cover Plaintiff’s
outstanding balance on or around August of 2023. (Complaint at p. 1.) Plaintiff
alleges that such acts are the basis for Defendant’s breach of the agreement.
(Complaint at p. 1.) Plaintiff alleges that the parties entered into a written
and oral agreement. (Complaint at p. 1.) 
 
The contract
between the parties is attached as Exhibit “A” Agreement to Rent or Lease to
the Complaint.  Preliminarily, the Court
finds that ¶3 of the contract contains at least one section where the written
agreement between the parties requires Defendant to return credit to Plaintiff.
Notably, ¶3 provides that: The unused portion of this deposit shall be returned
to Resident without interest, according to law. Furthermore, ¶8 provides: In
the event Owner is unable to deliver possession of the premises to Resident for
any reason not within Owner’s control, including, but not limited to failure of
prior occupants to vacate as agreed or required by law, Owner shall not be
liable to Resident except for the return of all sums previously paid to Owner
in the event Resident chooses to terminate this Rental Agreement.  Plaintiff alleges that she suffered financial
damages due to Defendant’s breach of contract because her balance was only
$20,607.60 and Defendant received $37,506.49 and refused to refund the credit
owed to Plaintiff. (Complaint at p. 1.) 
 
            Accordingly, the Court finds that the
Complaint states sufficient facts for a cause of action for breach of contract.
The Demurrer as to the first cause of action is OVERRULED. 
 
2.         Second Cause of Action for Common
Counts     
 
            The
required elements of a common count claim are “(1) the statement of
indebtedness in a certain sum, (2) the consideration, i.e., goods sold, work
done, etc., and (3) nonpayment. A cause of action for money had and received is
stated if it is alleged the defendant is indebted to the plaintiff in a certain
sum for money had and received by the defendant for the use of the plaintiff.” Farmers Insurance Exchange v. Zerin (1997)
53 Cal.App.4th 445, 460, citation and quotation marks omitted.
 
            Here, pursuant to the second cause
of action, Plaintiff has failed to allege the sum of money that was had and
received. 
 
            As such, the second cause of action
for common counts is deficient and the Court SUSTAINS Defendant’s demurrer
thereto with leave to amend. 
 
II.        Motion to Strike
 
            As indicated above, no proof of
service was filed as to the motion to strike. “[D]ue process requires a party
to be fully advised of the issues to be addressed and be given adequate notice
of what facts it must rebut in order to prevail.” Fenn v. Sherriff (2003)
109 Cal.App.4th 1466, 1481.
 
            Here, Plaintiff was not given any
notice of the motion to strike as no proof of service was filed concerning such
motion. Moreover, given that the demurrer to the Complaint has been sustained
in its entirety, the motion to strike is moot.
 
            Accordingly, the Court DENIES the
motion to strike. 
 
III.       Conclusion 
 
             In sum,
Defendant’s Demurrer to the First Cause of Action in the Complaint is
OVERRULED.  Defendant’s Demurrer to the Second
Cause of Action in the Complaint is SUSTAINED with 20 days leave to amend.
 
            Defendant’s motion to strike is
DENIED as MOOT.
 
The Moving Party is ordered to give notice and to attach a
copy of the Court’s Tentative Ruling, as an exhibit “A” to said notice, as the
final order of the Court.   
 
 