 Case Number:  24PSCP00394    Hearing Date:   September 25, 2024    Dept:  G Petitioner State Bar of California’s Verified Petition
for Assumption of Jurisdiction Over the Unauthorized Law Practice of Elena
Orizabal, doing business as Unity Immigration, Unity Immigration Law Office,
Unity Immigration Law Offices, Unity Immigration Office, and Unity Immigration
Office Corp., and Request for Injunction
Respondent: Elena Orizabal
TENTATIVE RULING
Petitioner State Bar of California’s Verified Petition
for Assumption of Jurisdiction Over the Unauthorized Law Practice of Elena
Orizabal, doing business as Unity Immigration, Unity Immigration Law Office,
Unity Immigration Law Offices, Unity Immigration Office, and Unity Immigration
Office Corp., and Request for Injunction is GRANTED.
BACKGROUND
On August 20, 2024, Petitioner
State Bar of California (State Bar) filed the present verified petition for
assumption of jurisdiction over the unauthorized law practice of Respondent
Elena Orizabal, doing business as Unity Immigration, Unity Immigration Law
Office, Unity Immigration Law Offices, Unity Immigration Office, and Unity
Immigration Office Corp.
On August 22, 2024, the State
Bar filed an ex parte application for interim orders. On August 27, 2024, the
court granted the State Bar’s ex parte application.
A hearing on the present
petition is set for September 25, 2024.
EVIDENTIARY OBJECTIONS
Orizabal’s evidentiary objection
is SUSTAINED.
ANALYSIS
The
State Bar petitions the court for an order assuming jurisdiction over
Orizabal’s alleged unauthorized law practice. For the following reasons, the
court GRANTS the State Bar’s petition.
Legal Standard
Petition for Assumption of Jurisdiction
When
a person engages in unauthorized practice of law in California, the State Bar,
or the court on its own motion, may apply for an assumption of jurisdiction
over the unauthorized law practice. (Bus. & Prof. Code, § 6126.3, subds.
(a), (b).) The application must be made “to the superior court for the county
where the person [engaging in unauthorized practice of law] maintains or more
recently has maintained his or her principal office for the practice of law or
where he or she resides.” (Bus. & Prof. Code, § 6126.3, subd. (b).) The
application must be verified and must include the following: “(1) [p]robable
cause to believe that the facts set forth in subdivision (a) of Section 6126
have occurred[;] (2) [t]he interest of the applicant[; and] (3) [p]robable
cause to believe that the interests of a client or of an interested person or
entity will be prejudiced if the proceeding is not maintained.” (Bus. &
Prof. Code, § 6126.3, subd. (c).)
Upon
being made, “[t]he application shall be set for hearing, and an order to show
cause shall be issued directing the person to show cause why the court should
not assume jurisdiction over the practice as provided in this section. A
copy of the application and order to show cause shall be served upon the person
by personal delivery or, as an alternate method of service, by certified or
registered mail, return receipt requested, addressed to the person either at
the address at which he or she maintains, or more recently has maintained, his
or her principal office or at the address where he or she resides. Service is
complete at the time of mailing, but any prescribed period of notice and any
right or duty to do any act or make any response within that prescribed period
or on a date certain after notice is served by mail shall be extended five days
if the place of address is within the State of California, 10 days if the place
of address is outside the State of California but within the United States, and
20 days if the place of address is outside the United States. . . .” (Bus.
& Prof. Code, § 6126.3, subd. (d).)
“If
the court finds that the facts set forth in subdivision (a) of Section 6126
have occurred and that the interests of a client or an interested person or
entity will be prejudiced if the proceeding provided herein is not maintained,
the court may make an order assuming jurisdiction over the person's practice
pursuant to this section. If the person to whom the order to show cause is
directed does not appear, the court may make its order upon the verified
application or upon such proof as it may require. Thereupon, the court shall
appoint one or more active licensees of the State Bar to act under its
direction to mail a notice of cessation of practice, pursuant to subdivision
(g), and may order those appointed attorneys to do one or more of the
following:
(1) Examine the files and records of the practice
and obtain information as to any pending matters that may require attention.
(2)
Notify persons and entities who appear to be clients of the person of the
occurrence of the event or events stated in subdivision (a) of Section 6126,
and inform them that it may be in their best interest to obtain other legal
counsel.
(3)
Apply for an extension of time pending employment of legal counsel by the
client.
(4)
With the consent of the client, file notices, motions, and pleadings on behalf
of the client where jurisdictional time limits are involved and other legal
counsel has not yet been obtained.
(5)
Give notice to the depositor and appropriate persons and entities who may be
affected, other than clients, of the occurrence of the event or events.
(6)
Arrange for the surrender or delivery of clients' papers or property.
(7)
Arrange for the appointment of a receiver, where applicable, to take possession
and control of any and all bank accounts relating to the affected person's
practice.
(8)
Do any other acts that the court may direct to carry out the purposes of this
section.” (Bus. & Prof. Code, §
6126.3, subd. (e).)
Unauthorized Practice of Law
“No
person shall practice law in California unless the person is an active licensee
of the State Bar.” (Bus. & Prof. Code, § 6125.) “It is unlawful for a
paralegal to perform any services for a consumer except as performed under the
direction and supervision of the attorney, law firm, corporation, government
agency, or other entity that employs or contracts with the paralegal.” (Emphasis added, Bus.
& Prof. Code, § 6451.)
“[T]he
State Bar Act implicitly adopted the common law definition of ‘practice law’ as
‘the doing and performing services in a court of justice in any matter
depending therein throughout its various stages and in conformity with the
adopted rules of procedure. But in a larger sense, it includes legal advice and
counsel and the preparation of legal instruments and contracts by which legal
rights are secured although such matter may or may not be depending in a court.’”
(Benninghoff v. Superior Court (2006) 136 Cal.App.4th 61, 68, quoting Birbrower,
Montalbano, Condon & Frank v. Superior Court (1998) 17 Cal.4th 119, 142.)
“[T]he character of the act, and not the place where it is performed, is the
decisive element, and if the application of legal knowledge and technique is
required, the activity constitutes the practice of law, even if conducted
before an administrative board or commission.” (Baron v. City of Los Angeles
(1970) 2 Cal.3d 535, 543.)
Discussion
In
this case, the State Bar argues the following evidence establishes Orizabal has
been engaging in the unauthorized practice of law. On July 16, 2020, the State
Bar obtained an order assuming jurisdiction over the unauthorized practice of
law by Orizabal in a previous proceeding before this court that expired on July
16, 2022. (Chavez Decl., ¶ 5, Ex. A.) On June 6, 2023, Alieda Llanes, one of
the Orizabal’s former clients, contacted the State Bar and informed them that Orizabal
had offered to continue representing Llanes in Llanes’s immigration case. (Chavez
Decl., ¶ 6.) The State Bar then opened up a new investigation and referred the
matter to the Los Angeles County Department of Consumer and Business Affairs (DCBA)
and Los Angeles County District Attorney’s Office (LA County DA). (Chavez
Decl., ¶ 7.) Upon receiving the State Bar’s referral, the LA County DA assigned
Maria Grimaldo, an investigator with the LA County DA’s Bureau of
Investigation, to investigate the matter. (Chavez Decl., Ex. B, ¶ 4-5.)
On
July 28, 2023, Grimaldo conducted an undercover investigation of Orizabal by
visiting Orizabal’s El Monte office and posing as a new client seeking legal
advice and representation for a fictional immigration case. (Chavez Decl., Ex.
B, ¶ 6.) Orizabal provided Grimaldo with a list of documents needed to begin
the immigration process including a birth certificate, a consular
identification card, a passport, passport-type photographs, three years of tax
filings, and proof of Grimaldo’s fictional spousal relationship. (Chavez Decl.,
Ex. B, Ex. 1.1, p. 3.) Orizabal also advised Grimaldo that Grimaldo’s spouse
would need a background check, recommended filing taxes during the immigration
process, and stated Grimaldo’s spouse would require a co-signer if the spouse
did not make over $39,700.00. (Chavez Decl., Ex. B, Ex. 1.1, p. 3.) Orizabal
then explained the process for obtaining legal immigration status and promised
to provide assistance with setting up an appointment with a psychologist,
obtaining an Individual Taxpayer Identification Number for Grimaldo’s spouse,
and providing transportation and lodging to Grimaldo’s spouse in Mexico.
(Chavez Decl., Ex. B, Ex. 1.1, p. 3-4.) During the visit, Orizabal promised
Grimaldo a 99% chance of success in Grimaldo’s fictional case. (Chavez Decl.,
Ex. B, Ex. 1.1, p. 4.) Orizabal quoted a price of $5,000 for Orizabal’s
services. (Chavez Decl., Ex. B, Ex. 1.1, p. 2.)
On
May 1, 2024, Michael Chavez, an investigator for the State Bar, visited
Orizabal’s El Monte office and observed two banners in front of the office that
advertised immigration and tax services. (Chavez Decl., ¶ 11, Ex. D.) Chavez
also observed other exterior signs that advertised child support, divorce, and
bankruptcy services. (Chavez Decl., ¶ 11, Ex. D.)
In
response, Orizabal admits to being the president/CEO of Unity Immigration
Office Corp. (Orizabal Decl., ¶ 2.) Orizabal states Orizabal obtained a
paralegal certificate in November 2006. (Orizabal Decl., ¶ 3.) After the court
assumed jurisdiction over Orizabal’s practice in 2020, Orizabal states Orizabal
ceased renting space in the office to attorneys, removed all advertising that
references the world “law,” and ensured clients were made aware that Orizabal
is a paralegal. (Orizabal Decl., ¶ 7.) Orizabal’s services allegedly consist of
describing the immigration process to prospective clients and transcribing
information onto forms. (Orizabal Decl., ¶ 7.)
Based
on the above evidence, the court determines there is probable cause to believe
Orizabal engaged in the unauthorized practice of law. Pursuant to California
law, a paralegal is one “who is qualified by education, training, or work
experience, who either contracts with or is employed by an attorney, law firm,
corporation, governmental agency, or other entity, and who performs substantial
legal work under the direction and supervision of an active member of the State
Bar of California, as defined in Section 6060, or an attorney practicing law in
the federal courts of this state, that has been specifically delegated by the
attorney to him or her. Tasks performed by a paralegal include, but are not
limited to, case planning, development, and management; legal research;
interviewing clients; fact gathering and retrieving information; drafting and
analyzing legal documents; collecting, compiling, and utilizing technical
information to make an independent decision and recommendation to the
supervising attorney; and representing clients before a state or federal
administrative agency if that representation is permitted by statute, court
rule, or administrative rule or regulation.” (Bus. & Prof. Code, § 6450,
subd. (a).)
Pursuant
to Business and Professions Code section 6450, subdivision (b), “a paralegal
shall not do the following: (1) [p]rovide legal advice[;] (2) [r]epresent a
client in court[;] (3) [s]elect, explain, draft, or recommend the use of any
legal document to or for any person other than the attorney who directs and
supervises the paralegal[;] (4) [a]ct as a runner or capper, as defined in
Sections 6151 and 6152[;] (5) [e]ngage in conduct that constitutes the unlawful
practice of law[;] (6) [c]ontract with, or be employed by, a natural person other
than an attorney to perform paralegal services[;] (7) [i]n connection with
providing paralegal services, induce a person to make an investment, purchase a
financial product or service, or enter a transaction from which income or
profit, or both, purportedly may be derived[; or] (8) [e]stablish the fees to
charge a client for the services the paralegal performs, which shall be
established by the attorney who supervises the paralegal’s work. This paragraph
does not apply to fees charged by a paralegal in a contract to provide
paralegal services to an attorney, law firm, corporation, governmental agency,
or other entity as provided in subdivision (a).”
Here,
Orizabal engaged in prohibited conduct by selecting, explaining, and
recommending which legal documents Grimaldo would be required to submit for an
immigration application. Orizabal also offered to complete those documents and
promised a success rate of 99%. And Orizabal attempted to charge a fee of
$5,000 for these services. Because Orizabal has not provided any evidence to
establish Orizabal was working under the supervision of an attorney at the time
Grimaldo approached Orizabal, the court finds Orizabal exceeded the scope of
work and responsibilities of a paralegal and was engaging in the unauthorized
practice of law. Additionally, to the extent Orizabal claims Orizabal’s
services were limited to document and form preparation, Orizabal failed to
establish compliance with the registration procedures for legal document
assistants or immigration consultants. (See Bus. & Prof. Code, §§
6400 et seq., 22440 et seq.)
In
arguing Orizabal has not engaged in the practice of law, Orizabal points to the
following federal regulations. Pursuant to 8 C.F.R. section 1001.1, subdivision
(m), representation before federal immigration authorities includes “practice”
and “preparations.” “The term practice means exercising professional judgment
to provide legal advice or legal services related to any matter before EOIR.
Practice includes, but is not limited to, determining available forms of relief
from removal or protection; providing advice regarding legal strategies;
drafting or filing any document on behalf of another person appearing before
EOIR based on an analysis of applicable facts and law; or appearing on behalf
of another person in any matter before EOIR.” (8 C.F.R., § 1001.1, subd. (i).)
“The term preparation means the act or acts consisting solely of filling in
blank spaces on printed forms with information provided by the applicant or
petitioner that are to be filed with or submitted to EOIR, where such acts do
not include the exercise of professional judgment to provide legal advice or
legal services. When this act is performed by someone other than a
practitioner, the fee for filling in blank spaces on printed forms, if any,
must be nominal, and the individual may not hold himself or herself out as
qualified in legal matters or in immigration and naturalization procedure.” (8
C.F.R., § 1001.1, subd. (k).)
Here,
in the matter presented by Grimaldo’s case, Orizabal did not seek to charge a
nominal fee, but instead charged $5,000 for services. The fees charged support
the State Bar’s argument that Orizabal’s services amounted to the unauthorized
practice of law.  Further, Orizabal went
so far as to promise Grimaldo’s success which would only be feasible if
Orizabal was the individual responsible for drafting and preparing Grimaldo’s
case.
The
court further determines there is probable cause to believe the interests of
clients will be prejudiced if the proceeding is not maintained. As noted above,
this is not the first time Orizabal has engaged in the unauthorized practice of
law.  It is the court’s position that if
it fails to assume jurisdiction, Orizabal will continue to engage in the
unauthorized practice of law. To the extent Orizabal contends such jurisdiction
will prejudice Orizabal’s tax clients, the court finds this argument unavailing
since any prejudice to Orizabal’s clients will be negligible given the State
Bar’s obligation under Bus. & Prof. Code, § 6126.3 to return clients’
property forthwith.
Accordingly,
the court GRANTS the petition.
CONCLUSION
Based on the foregoing, the
State Bar’s petition for assumption of jurisdiction over the unauthorized law
practice of Orizabal is GRANTED.