  Case Number:  20SMCV00636    Hearing Date:   March 14, 2024    Dept:  I The motion is
DENIED WITHOUT PREJUDICE.  The court will
allow defendant to bring the motion again and will set the trial far enough out
at the upcoming TSC to so allow.
The court is
more than a little bit troubled.
Turning first
to plaintiff.  The court understands that
Ms. Anisman is not the same lawyer who handled some of the case earlier.  But her statements to the court were
improper.  She needed to do whatever was
needed to get up to speed before arguing the case.  She cannot hide behind the fact that she is
new when she makes representations to the court that turn out to be not correct
on the theory that another lawyer was handling the case then.  The court assumes that a lawyer from the same
law firm arguing a summary judgment motion or putting in a supplemental
declaration is speaking for the firm unless otherwise stated.  Where a statement is not based on personal
knowledge, then the declaration can so state. 
And if the lawyer just does not know, then the lawyer ought to say
nothing at all.  While a statement as to
what others did might be hearsay, it might also be based on business
records.  In any event, a lawyer making a
representation to the court cannot base it on that lawyer’s knowledge to the
exclusion of other lawyers who were are or were in the firm handling the
matter, especially when doing so is misleading, to put a nice spin on it.
Turning next
to the defense.  Defendant’s
representations regarding the provenance of the documents were true and
correct.  His statements that the
documents had been turned over well before the motion were also true and
correct.  His statements that the
documents were in plaintiffs’ actual possession as early as April 2017 were
also correct.  The problem that the court
has is that the email exchange attached to plaintiffs’ supplemental declaration
is not the same as that which was submitted in the moving papers.  Critically, it appears that underlying
defense counsel had been told that the amount being sought was “several hundred
thousand dollars” in addition to the amount plaintiffs had paid for the house
(plus the upgrades).  Further, defendant
wrote to underlying defense counsel that if the concept of “full reimbursement”
was not on the table, the parties ought to just mediate.  That position was reiterated because
defendant wanted to know if underlying defense counsel was ok on “concept and
reimbursement.”  The response a few
seconds later from underlying counsel was “I told you yes.  Get me the exact number and a
breakdown.” 
This is
important because the court had been operating on the assumption that while
underlying defense counsel had agreed to rescission (money paid in return for
the property) including the $118,000 in upgrades, underlying counsel had never
indicated a willingness to provide money for the other items that plaintiffs
were demanding.  Without some reason to
believe that underlying defendants were willing to agree to such a deal, there
was no reason to fault defendant here for insisting on mediation and breaking
off the settlement discussion.  And
indeed, that was largely the point being made in the original moving
papers.  And that is also consistent with
plaintiffs’ position at their deposition (although not necessarily in their
opposing papers—another problem with the way plaintiffs’ counsel framed the
case).  But it turns out that the record
was incomplete.  Underlying defense
counsel said “I told you yes” after defendant here said that the number would
be “several hundred thousand dollars” higher than the rescission plus
$118,000. 
And this is
no way to run a railroad.  Defense
counsel had an obligation of candor to the court to put the entire email
exchange before the court, not just the part that looks good.  But that said, defendant here could perhaps
have reasonably assumed that plaintiffs’ counsel would tell the court whatever
the court needed to know.  Yet
plaintiffs’ counsel did not complete or correct the record in the moving
papers.  Only in the supplemental
declaration filed earlier this week—which defense counsel is right did go
beyond that which the court authorized—did this information come out.  That deprived defendant of the ability to
respond.
The court
therefore must deny the motion, because the evidence now in the record is
troubling.  However, because of the way
this was done and the way the evidence came in, the court will not bar
defendant from trying again and thereby dealing with the email exchange in its
entirety.  In the meantime, the trial
date cannot be maintained—as the court indicated at the last hearing.  The court’s busy calendar means that it could
be a while before this case goes forward to trial, but the court will not
disallow a summary judgment motion brought on the same grounds as was brought
before.  Because of the muddled nature of
the current record, whole new papers are the way to go.  The FSC and trial dates are VACATED.  The court will set a new trial at the
already-scheduled TSC.