  Case Number:  20SMCV00486    Hearing Date:   June 12, 2024    Dept:  M CASE NAME:           Liu v. JCTLA
Investment Corp., et al.
CASE NO.:                20SMCV00486
MOTION:                  Motion
to Compel Deposition 
HEARING DATE:   6/7/2024
 
Legal
Standard
 
Service of a proper deposition notice obligates a party or
“party-affiliated” witness (officer, director, managing agent or employee of
party) to attend and testify, as well as produce any document, electronically
stored information, or tangible thing for inspection and copying. (CCP §
2025.280(a).) If, after service of a deposition notice, a party deponent fails
to appear, testify, or produce documents or tangible things for inspection
without having served a valid objection under CCP § 2025.410, the deposing
party may move for an order compelling attendance, testimony, and production.
(CCP § 2025.450(a).) The motion must be accompanied by a meet and confer
declaration, or, when a party deponent fails to attend the deposition, the
motion must also be accompanied by a declaration stating that the moving party
has contacted the party deponent to inquire about the nonappearance. (CCP §
2025.450(b)(2).) If the deposition notice included a request for production of
documents, the motion to compel attendance must also show good cause to justify
the production. (CCP § 2025.450(b)(1).) 
  
A motion to compel production of documents described in a
deposition notice must be accompanied by a showing of good cause. (CCP §
2025.450(b)(1).) In other words, the moving party must provide declarations
containing specific facts justifying inspection of the documents described in
the notice. Courts liberally construe good cause in favor of discovery where
facts show the documents are necessary for trial preparation. 
 
The motion to compel must be “made no later than 60 days
after the completion of the record of the deposition.” (CCP § 2025.480(b).)
This time limit also applies to motions based on a deposition subpoena for
production of documents or a business records subpoena. The 60-day time limit
runs from the date objections are served because the deposition record is then
complete. (Rutledge v. Hewlett-Packard Co. (2015) 238 Cal.App.4th 1164,
1192.) 
 
Analysis
 
Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant Justin
Liu (“Plaintiff”) moves to compel Defendant Jean Liu and
Defendant/Cross-Complainant JCTLA Investment Corp. to attend their depositions
and provide testimony within 30 days of the granting of this motion. Plaintiff
demonstrates that Defendants have represented that Ms. Liu will be designated
as the Person Most Qualified (“PMQ”) on behalf of JCTLA for the purposes of its
deposition. However, Defendants have refused and continue to refuse, to produce
the PMQ for deposition.
 
On November 17, 2023, Plaintiff
served notice of the deposition of Jean Liu and of JCTLA’s PMQ. (Turner Decl.
¶7. Ex. 4.) Since Defendants’ deposition was noticed in November 2023, the
parties’ met and conferred regarding Defendants’ objections to producing Jean Liu
for her deposition, which included “unavailability of counsel, unavailability
of Ms. Liu due to chemotherapy treatment, and unreasonable 2:00 a.m. start time
for Ms. Liu in Taipei.” (Id., Ex. 5.) Defendants’ counsel has repeatedly
represented that Ms. Liu will be unavailable for deposition for an undetermined
amount of time due to her cancer treatment. (Turner Decl. ¶13- 16, Ex. 9-10.) Defendants
have not stated when Ms. Liu may become available. Of course, availability and
the mere inconvenience of appearing for a remote deposition during normal
business hours are not recognized grounds to preclude a deposition. (See CCP §§ 2025.210 et seq.; 2025.410 [recognizing objections
relating to section 2025.210 et seq.].) Further, the Court will account for the
time difference to set a mutually agreeable time for the deposition. Therefore,
so long as Ms. Liu is physically well enough to sit for the deposition, the
Court is inclined to compel the deposition. 
 
Plaintiff asserts that the only
evidence on the record that substantiates Ms. Liu’s health claims is the
purported declaration of her physician, Dr. Chen Shin-Cheh. However, Mandarin
Chinese experts state that the declaration is not signed by Dr. Shin-Chen, but
instead someone called “Gao Ruoyun”. (Martin Decl., ¶¶3-4; Wright Decl.,
¶¶4-6.) Defendants failed to oppose this motion to address this issue. Therefore,
there is no evidence supporting Defendants’ single objection regarding the
deposition notice.  
 
Accordingly, the motion is GRANTED.
Ms. Liu is ordered to attend her remote deposition as provided in the subject
deposition notice within 10 days, at a mutually agreeable time. 