 Case Number:  24SMCP00044    Hearing Date:   June 12, 2024    Dept:  M CASE NAME:             Meyer, Olson, Lowy &
Meyers LLP, v. Muhlhauser
CASE NO.:                   24SMCP00044
MOTION:                     Petition to Compel Arbitration 
HEARING DATE:   6/12/2024
 
LEGAL STANDARD 
 
Under California and federal law, public policy favors
arbitration as an efficient and less expensive means of resolving private
disputes. (Moncharsh v. Heily & Blase (1992) 3 Cal.4th 1,
8-9; AT&T Mobility LLC v. Concepcion (2011) 563 U.S. 333, 339.)
Accordingly, whether an agreement is governed by the California Arbitration Act
(“CAA”) or the Federal Arbitration Act (“FAA”), courts resolve doubts about an
arbitration agreement’s scope in favor of arbitration.  (Moncharsh,
supra, 3 Cal.4th at 9; Comedy Club, Inc. v. Improv West Assocs. (9th
Cir. 2009) 553 F.3d 1277, 1284; see also Engalla v. Permanente Med. Grp.,
Inc. (1997) 15 Cal.4th 951, 971-972 [“California law incorporates many of
the basic policy objectives contained in the Federal Arbitration Act, including
a presumption in favor of arbitrability [citation] and a requirement that an
arbitration agreement must be enforced on the basis of state law standards that
apply to contracts in general”].) “[U]nder both the FAA and California law,
‘arbitration agreements are valid, irrevocable, and enforceable, save upon such
grounds as exist at law or in equity for the revocation of any contract.’ ” (Higgins
v. Superior Crout (2006) 140 Cal.App.4th 1238, 1247.) 
 
“Code of Civil Procedure section 1281.2 requires a trial
court to grant a petition to compel arbitration if the court determines that an
agreement to arbitrate the controversy exists.” (Avery v. Integrated
Healthcare Holdings, Inc. (2013) 218 Cal.App.4th 50, 59, quotations
omitted.) Accordingly, “when presented with a petition to compel arbitration,
the court’s first task is to determine whether the parties have in fact agreed
to arbitrate the dispute.”  (Ibid.) A petition to compel
arbitration is in essence a suit in equity to compel specific performance of a
contract. (Id. at 71.) As with any other specific performance claim, “a
party seeking to enforce an arbitration agreement must show the agreement’s
terms are sufficiently definite to enable the court to know what it is to
enforce.” (Ibid. [internal citations omitted].) “Only the valid
and binding agreement of the parties, including all material terms well-defined
and clearly expressed, may be ordered specifically performed.” (Ibid.)
An arbitration agreement “must be so interpreted as to give effect to the
mutual intention of the parties as it existed at the time of contracting, so
far as the same is ascertainable and lawful.” (Civ. Code, § 1636.) The language
of the contract governs its interpretation if it is clear and explicit. (Civ.
Code, § 1368.) If uncertainty exists, “the language of a contract should be
interpreted most strongly against the party who caused the uncertainty to
exist.” (Civ. Code, § 1654.)  
 
The party seeking to compel arbitration bears the burden of
proving the existence of a valid arbitration agreement by the preponderance of
the evidence. (Engalla v. Permanente Medical Group, Inc. (1997) 15
Cal.4th 951, 972.) It would then be plaintiff’s burden, in opposing the motion,
to prove by a preponderance of the evidence any fact necessary to her
opposition. (See Ibid.) “In these summary proceedings, the trial court
sits as a trier of fact, weighing all the affidavits, declarations, and other
documentary evidence, as well as oral testimony received at the court’s
discretion, to reach a final determination.” (Ibid.) 
 
ANALYSIS 
  
Petitioner Meyer, Olson, Lowy & Meyers LLP (MOLM) petitions
the court to compel binding arbitration against Respondent Stefanie Muhlhauser.

 
As with any contract, mutual assent or consent is necessary
for the formation of a valid arbitration agreement. (Civ. Code, §§ 1550, 1565.)
“Consent is not mutual, unless the parties all agree upon the same thing in the
same sense.” (Civ. Code, § 1580.) The moving party bears the initial burden of
showing the existence of an agreement to arbitrate by a preponderance of the
evidence. (Mitri v. Arnel Mgmt. Co. (2007) 157 Cal.App.4th 1164, 1169
[“Because the existence of the agreement is a statutory prerequisite to
granting the petition, the petitioner bears the burden of proving its existence
by a preponderance of the evidence.”].) 
MOLM meets
its burden to show the existence of a valid
arbitration agreement covering disputes over legal fees between itself and
Respondent. MOLM presents a verified petition for arbitration. MOLM
alleges that on July 13, 2021, Respondent and MOLM entered into a written
contract whereby it agreed to perform various legal services for Respondent in
connection with a dissolution of marriage action, and domestic violence
matters. (Pet. ¶2, Ex. A.) Paragraph 13 of the retainer (Ex. A) and a separate
letter signed by Respondent on July 5, 2021, provides that if there is any
disagreement or dispute between the parties concerning fees, the parties agree
to submit such dispute to binding arbitration. (Id., ¶3.) A dispute over fees
and costs apparently arose. On September 21, 2023, MOLM sent a notice of
Respondent’s right to arbitrate, demanding payment of the outstanding balance
for fees/costs for professional services in the amount of $155,866.23. (Id., ¶
4, Ex. B.) 
There is no
opposition. Respondent therefore fails to present any defense to the
arbitration agreement.
Accordingly,
the petition is GRANTED.
Code of
Civil Procedure section 1281.6 provides that “[i]f the arbitration agreement
does not provide a method for appointing an arbitrator, the parties to the
agreement who seek arbitration and against whom arbitration is sought may agree
on a method of appointing an arbitrator and that method shall be followed. In
the absence of an agreed method, or if the agreed method fails or for any
reason cannot be followed, or when an arbitrator appointed fails to act and his
or her successor has not been appointed, the court, on petition of a party to
the arbitration agreement, shall appoint the arbitrator.”
When a
petition is made to the court to appoint a neutral arbitrator, the court shall
nominate five persons from lists of persons supplied jointly by the parties to
the arbitration or obtained from a governmental agency concerned with
arbitration or private disinterested association concerned with arbitration.
The parties to the agreement who seek arbitration and against whom arbitration
is sought may within five days of receipt of notice of the nominees from the
court jointly select the arbitrator whether or not the arbitrator is among the
nominees. If the parties fail to select an arbitrator within the five-day
period, the court shall appoint the arbitrator from the nominees.”
The Court
therefore sets an OSC Re: Appointment of Arbitrator for June 27, 2024, at 8:30
a.m. The Court nominates the following retired Judges to act as Arbitrator: a) Hon.
Hank Goldberg, b) Hon. Scott Gordon, c) Hon. Margo Hoyt, d) Hon. Thomas Trent
Lewis, or e) Hon. Roy Paul. The parties are ordered to meet and confer within 5
days and jointly select an arbitrator. The parties shall submit a joint brief
on their selection(s) at least 3 court days prior to the OSC hearing. If the
parties are unable to agree on an arbitrator, the Court will select from one of
the five arbitrators above. 