 Case Number:  23SMCV02011    Hearing Date:   June 12, 2024    Dept:  M CASE NAME:           Arcos, v. Anuluoha, et al.
CASE
NO.:                23SMCV02011
MOTION:                  Motion to be Relieved
HEARING
DATE:   6/12/2024
 

LEGAL STANDARD
 
The court may order that an
attorney be changed or substituted at any time before or after judgment or
final determination upon request by either client or attorney and after notice
from one to the other. (CCP § 284(2).) The attorney seeking to withdraw must
take “reasonable steps to avoid reasonably foreseeable prejudice to the rights
of the client, including giving due notice to the client, allowing time for
employment of other counsel.” (Cal. Rules of Prof. Conduct, 3-700(A)(2). See,
e.g., Vann v. Shilleh (1975) [holding withdrawal prejudicial where
attorney withdraw from the representation of defendant on the Friday before
trial began the following Monday].) “The determination whether to grant or deny
a motion to withdraw as counsel lies within the sound discretion of the trial
court.” (Manfredi & Levine v. Superior Court (1998) 66 Cal.App.4th
1128, 1133.)  
 
An application to be relieved as
counsel must be made on Judicial Counsel Form MC-051 (Notice of Motion and
Motion), MC-052 (Declaration), and MC-053 (Proposed Order). (CRC 3.1362(a),
(c), (e).) The requisite forms must be served “on the client and on all parties
that have appeared in the case.” (CRC, 3.1362(d).) When a client is
served by mail, the attorney’s declaration must indicate that the client’s
address was confirmed within the last 30 days and how it was confirmed. (Id.)
If the attorney is unable to confirm the client’s current address, the
declaration must state the reasonable efforts made within the last 30 days to
obtain the client’s current address. (Id.) 
 
Additionally, the declaration “must
state in general terms and without compromising the confidentiality of the
attorney client relationship why” a motion is brought instead of filing a
substitution of attorney. (CRC, 3.1362(c).)
 
ANALYSIS
 
Daniel C. Sharpe, Esq., of Windsor
Troy (“Counsel”) moves to be relieved as counsel of record for Plaintiff
Marcelino Arcos. 
 
Counsel failed to submit all
mandatory forms, specifically the MC-052 declaration. In lieu of the MC-052
form, counsel submits a written declaration. However, this form was required to
be completed and served on the client. (CRC Rule 3.1362(d).) Also, since the
declaration is not on the required form, counsel failed to declare whether the
client was served at his last known address, or whether that address was
confirmed within the past 30 days. Of course, the address could probably not be
confirmed within the last 30 days, due to the client’s failure to communicate. Still,
the forms are mandatory. 
 
Accordingly, the motion is DENIED
without prejudice.  If counsel files the
appropriate form before the June 12, 2024 hearing, the Court would rule as follows:
As to the merits of the request, the
Court has some concerns that the client will be prejudiced if relief is granted
at this late juncture. Notably, the trial is set for July 29, 2024, which is mere
weeks from this hearing. Withdrawal at this late stage could impermissibly
prejudice Plaintiff. (Ramirez v. Sturdevant (1994) 21 Cal.App.4th 904,
915; see CRPC, Rule 1.16(d) [prohibits an attorney from withdrawing from
pending matters without court permission until appropriate steps have been
taken to avoid reasonably foreseeable prejudice to the rights of the client]; see
also Filbin v. Fitzgerald (2012) 211 Cal. App. 4th 154, 170 [even a
consensual substitution would have required “some explanation” seventeen days
before trial].) 
 
That said, counsel has provided a
clear explanation of their reasonable and longstanding efforts to re-contact
their client. Counsel states that an irreparable breakdown of the
attorney-client relationship has occurred. Specifically, Plaintiff has failed
to communicate with counsel at all. Counsel explains that since October 2023,
they have been trying to get in contact with Plaintiff, but to no avail.
Counsel provides details on the efforts their firm underwent to find and
communicate with Plaintiff, including numerous attempted calls to associated
phone numbers and letters to known addresses. 
On such a record, it is clear that counsel’s withdrawal will not result
in prejudice. Rather, prejudice will result from Plaintiff’s refusal to participate
in this litigation.
 
Accordingly, the motion would be
GRANTED. The order is effective upon the filing of the proof of service of the
order on the client. Until then, counsel remains counsel of record.