 Case Number:  23SMCV03187    Hearing Date:   June 12, 2024    Dept:  M CASE NAME:             De La Peza v. Hill, et al. 
CASE NO.:                   23SMCV03187
MOTION:                     Demurrer to the First Amended
Complaint  
HEARING DATE:   6/12/2024
 
LEGAL STANDARD 
 
A demurrer for sufficiency tests whether
the complaint states a cause of action. (Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147
Cal.App.4th 740, 747.) When considering demurrers, courts read the allegations
liberally and in context. In a demurrer proceeding, the defects must be
apparent on the face of the pleading or via proper judicial notice. (Donabedian
v. Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994.) A demurrer tests the
pleadings alone and not the evidence or other extrinsic matters. Therefore, it
lies only where the defects appear on the face of the pleading or are
judicially noticed. (CCP §§ 430.30, 430.70.) At the pleading stage, a plaintiff
need only allege ultimate facts sufficient to apprise the defendant of the
factual basis for the claim against him. (Semole v. Sansoucie (1972) 28
Cal. App. 3d 714, 721.) A “demurrer does not, however, admit contentions,
deductions or conclusions of fact or law alleged in the pleading, or the
construction of instruments pleaded, or facts impossible in law.” (S. Shore
Land Co. v. Petersen (1964) 226 Cal.App.2d 725, 732, internal citations
omitted.) 
 
A special demurrer for uncertainty is
disfavored and will only be sustained where the pleading is so bad that
defendant cannot reasonably respond—i.e., cannot reasonably determine what
issues must be admitted or denied, or what counts or claims are directed
against him/her. (CCP § 430.10(f); Khoury v. Maly’s of Calif., Inc.
(1993) 14 Cal.App.4th 612, 616.) Moreover, even if the pleading is somewhat
vague, “ambiguities can be clarified under modern discovery procedures.” (Ibid.)  
  
“Liberality in permitting amendment is
the rule, if a fair opportunity to correct any defect has not been given.” (Angie
M. v. Superior Court (1995) 37 Cal.App.4th 1217, 1227.) It is an abuse of
discretion for the court to deny leave to amend where there is any reasonable
possibility that plaintiff can state a good cause of action. (Goodman v.
Kennedy (1976) 18 Cal.3d 335, 349.) The burden is on plaintiff to show¿in
what manner¿plaintiff can amend the complaint, and¿how¿that
amendment will change the legal effect of the pleading.¿(Id.)  
 
ANALYSIS 
 
Defendants
Kerri M. Hill and Kerri M. Hill, DDS, Inc. demur to Plaintiff Kim de la Peza’s causes
of action for Battery (3rd Cause of Action), Fraud (4th Cause of Action), and
Restitution and Injunctive Relief for Unfair Business Practices (5th Cause of
Action).
 
Third Cause of
Action for Medical Battery
 
Defendants
argue that the third cause of action fails to state a claim because the
allegations that an unlicensed employee performed work amounted to an
unconsented touching. 
 
Generally,
a lack of consent to the particular contact is required to state a claim for
battery. (Carlsen v. Koivumaki (2014) 227 Cal.App.4th 879, 900-901.) Courts
recognize that a person may place conditions on consent. (Ashcraft v. King
(1991) 228 Cal.App.3d 604, 610.) If the defendant exceeds the terms or
conditions of the consent, then the consent will not prevent liability. (See Id.
[surgeon ignored clear patient instruction and transfused blood from nonfamily
donors, unwittingly infecting the patient with HIV].)  In the medical malpractice
context, a patient's consent is a valid defense to a claim of battery, so long
as the physician does
not exceed the scope of the consent given. (Kaplan v. Mamelak (2008) 162
Cal.App.4th 637, 645.) Physicians may be liable for battery when they fail to obtain the
patient's consent to a procedure at all or perform a “substantially different
procedure” than the one the patient consented to. (Cobbs v. Grant
(1972) 8 Cal.3d 229, 240–241.) “The battery theory should be reserved for those
circumstances when a doctor performs an operation to which the patient has not
consented. When the patient gives permission to perform one type of treatment
and the doctor performs another, the requisite element of deliberate intent to
deviate from the consent given is present. However, when the patient consents
to certain treatment and the doctor performs that treatment but an undisclosed
inherent complication with a low probability occurs, no intentional deviation
from the consent given appears; rather, the doctor in obtaining consent may
have failed to meet his due care duty to disclose pertinent information. In
that situation the action should be pleaded in negligence.” (Id.) Examples
of substantially different treatments include where (1) patient
consented to a prostate resection when uninformed that this procedure involved
tying off his sperm ducts; (2) patient consented to exploratory surgery and
doctor removed her breast; and (3) patient consented to a hernia operation
during which the doctor also removed ovaries. (Id. at 239.) Whether
Plaintiff gave consent to a particular procedure is typically a question of
fact. (Kaplan, supra, 162 Cal.App.4th at 647.)
 
The
complaint alleges from January 2019 through January 2023,
Plaintiff and Hill were in a dentist-patient relationship. (FAC, ¶¶5-6.) In
January 2019, Plaintiff employed Hill to have her teeth whitened. (Id. ¶ 6.)
During this initial visit, Plaintiff also mentioned to Hill that she was
considering a night guard because she clenched her jaws as she slept. (Id.) Hill
recommended that he correct a minor misalignment of her lower incisors before
fitting Plaintiff with a night guard. (¶ 7.) Plaintiff followed the
recommendation and agreed to have the misalignment corrected using the
Invisalign procedure. (Id.) In June 2019, Hill and her staff performed the Invisalign
procedure. (Id., ¶ 8.) Though the initial results were encouraging, by February
2021, Plaintiff became concerned that the appearance of her teeth, bite, and
smile had been made worse by the Invisalign procedure. (Id.) For instance,
Plaintiff noticed that gaps between her teeth begun to appear at her gum-lines,
that there was a loss of occlusion of her top and bottom molars that made it
difficult for her to chew, and that the shifting of her teeth caused Plaintiff
to bite the inside of her cheeks. (Id.) In February 2021, Hill assured
Plaintiff that the recent developments were temporary and would be corrected.
(Id., ¶ 9.) From April 2021 through January 2023, Hill continued performing
Invisalign procedures on Plaintiff in an effort to correct the malocclusion,
black triangles, and problems with Plaintiff’s bite. (Id.) Defendants were
unable to correct the problems as of January 2023. (Id., ¶ 10.) 
 
The
complaint further alleges that Hill allowed her employees to perform Invisalign
related procedures on Plaintiff without those employees being properly trained,
licensed, and certified to perform such treatments. (FAC, ¶ 28.) The employees
performed the Invisalign related procedures on Plaintiff not authorized by the
Business and Professions Code due to the lack of proximity and involvement of
Hill. (Id., ¶ 29.) Plaintiff would not have consented to the “Invisalign
treatment by defendant Hill and her employees if defendant Hill had advised
Plaintiff that Plaintiff would be treated by one or more persons who were not
duly trained, licensed, certified, and/or supervised to administer Invisalign
related treatments and procedures as were performed on Plaintiff while in
defendant Hill’s office.” (Id.) 
 
With
these allegations, the complaint establishes, as a matter of fact, that Plaintiff
consented to the Invisalign treatment to be performed by Hill and her
employees. (FAC, ¶¶ 28-29.) The complaint does not allege that Defendants
performed a substantially different procedure from the consented-to Invisalign
treatment. Simply put, Plaintiff expressly agreed to those procedures. Plaintiff
also does not allege that she placed any specific conditions regarding the
Invisalign treatment, such as who would perform the treatment. While Plaintiff
would not have consented if she knew that the employees were not duly trained, etc.,
she still alleges her consent for the exact procedure performed. 
 
Plaintiff
also asserts that her consent was negated by fraud and the illegal nature of
the treatment. Hill allegedly allowed her employees to perform the Invisalign
procedures on Plaintiff, even though such employees were unlicensed and
untrained to perform this procedure. However, these facts pled do not establish
that Defendants obtained her consent via fraud. Generally, deceit as to the therapeutic
purpose of an otherwise offensive contact vitiates consent. (Rains v.
Superior Court (1984) 150 Cal.App.3d 933, 936-940 [patients stated claim for
battery where physician intentionally misrepresented that physical abuse was
necessary to effect a cure; the violence was not in fact administered for a
therapeutic purpose but in order to subjugate them and control their behavior
to defendants' personal advantage]; cf. Freedman v. Superior Court
(1989) 214 Cal.App.3d 734 [plaintiff failed to allege consent to c-section was
fraudulently obtained where doctors told her that a certain drug was necessary
to prevent infection but its true purpose was to induce labor, but where defendants'
representation was for therapeutic treatment and she did not allege that
defendants' deception was for any independent or improper motive].) Here, the
“essential character” of the Invisalign treatment was not misrepresented. Hill
and her employees performed the Invisalign procedures for allegedly therapeutic
purposes—to correct a minor misalignment of her lower incisors. Whether these
procedures were necessary or performed negligently remains to be seen and are
subject to the other causes of action. However, the cited constructive fraud
would not negate the consent to the Invisalign procedures as alleged.
Therefore, Plaintiff fails to plead an unconsented touching.
 
Accordingly,
the demurrer is SUSTAINED with leave to amend.
 
Fourth Cause
of Action for Constructive Fraud
 
Defendants
demur to the constructive fraud cause of action on the grounds that they were
not required to disclose that other employees besides the Defendants would be
helping with Plaintiff’s treatments and that there is no showing that facts
were withheld to Plaintiff’s detriment.  Defendants
also argue that the Dental Practices Act allows a dentist to use assistants in
performing certain tasks relying upon Business & Professions Code §§ 1651, 1652.)
The reliance on section 1651 is inaccurate, as it does not relate to assistants,
and section 1652 was repealed. The relevant sections are 1750 et seq. In any
event, this argument depends on the precise facts of the case and will not be addressed
at the pleading stage.
 
Constructive
fraud “is a unique species of fraud applicable only to a fiduciary or
confidential relationship.” (Prakashpalan v. Engstrom, Lipscomb & Lack¿(2014)
223 Cal.App.4th 1105.) “The elements of the
cause of action for constructive fraud are: (1) fiduciary
relationship; (2) nondisclosure (breach of fiduciary duty); (3) intent to
deceive, and (4) reliance and resulting injury (causation).” (Younan v.
Equifax Inc. (1980) 111 Cal.App.3d 498, 516.) Constructive
fraud “comprises any act, omission or concealment involving a breach of legal
or equitable duty, trust or confidence which results in damage to another even
though the conduct is not otherwise fraudulent.” (Assilzadeh v. California
Federal Bank (2000) 82 Cal.App.4th 399, 415.)
“Most acts by an agent in breach of his fiduciary duties constitute constructive fraud.” (Id.) “The
failure of the fiduciary to disclose a material fact to his principal which
might affect the fiduciary's motives or the principal's decision, which is
known (or should be known) to the fiduciary, may constitute constructive fraud.” (Id.) “Also, a
careless misstatement may constitute constructive fraud even though there is no
fraudulent intent.” (Id.) “It is clear, therefore, that whether a
fiduciary duty has been breached, and whether a statement constitutes constructive or actual fraud, depends on the
facts and circumstances of each case.” (Id.) “Consequently, there
is no clear line establishing when a fiduciary's breach of the duty of care
will be merely negligent and when it may be characterized as constructive fraud.” (Salahutdin v.
Valley of California, Inc. (1994) 24 Cal.App.4th 555, 564.)
 
Plaintiff
alleges that at the inception of the doctor-patient relationship in January
2019, Plaintiff told defendant Hill that she wanted to whiten her teeth and to
provide her with a night guard. (FAC, ¶ 34.) Hill responded to Plaintiff’s
request to be fitted for a night guard by recommending Plaintiff first allow
defendant Hill to use the Invisalign procedure to correct a minor misalignment
in Plaintiff’s lower teeth before fitting Plaintiff for a night guard. (¶ 35.) Relying
upon Hill’s special skill, knowledge, education, and expertise as a licensed
dentist, Plaintiff agreed to the Invisalign treatment and paid defendant Hill
in excess of $5,000 for the Invisalign treatment. (Id.) However, after January
2023, Plaintiff learned from other licensed dental professionals that having
the Invisalign procedure prior to being fitted for a night guard was neither
medically necessary nor medically appropriate given the condition and alignment
of Plaintiff’s teeth at the time. (Id.) Plaintiff alleges that Hill often recommends
procedures that are not medically necessary to induce patients to pay for such services
in order to make as much money as possible from each patient. (¶37.) 
 
Hill
allegedly failed to disclose two material facts. First, Hill failed to disclose
that it was neither medically necessary nor appropriate to have the Invisalign
procedure in order to be fitted for a night guard. (FAC ¶ 38, 43-45.) Hill also
failed to disclose and suppressed the fact that he would allow untrained employees
to perform Invisalign related procedures. (Id. ¶¶ 39-42, 46.) Plaintiff
reasonably relied upon defendant Hill as a duly licensed dentist. (Id. ¶ 47.)
Plaintiff would not have agreed to or paid for the Invisalign treatment if she
knew the truth. (Id. ¶ 48.)
 
With
these allegations, Plaintiff establishes the elements of constructive fraud. Hill
is allegedly a fiduciary of Plaintiff, per their doctor-patient relationship. Hill
omitted certain allegedly material facts regarding their transaction, including
that the Invisalign treatment was not medically necessary in order to fit Plaintiff’s
desired night guard and that Hill would not be using properly trained or
licensed staff. Plaintiff alleges that this was in breach of Defendant’s
fiduciary duty to disclose all material facts. Plaintiff allegedly relied on
these omissions in deciding to undergo the Invisalign treatment, since she
would not have underwent the treatment if she knew the true facts. Plaintiff also
pleads that Defendant intended for Plaintiff to rely on the omissions in order
to have Plaintiff pay for unnecessary procedures, thus establishing the
required intent and resulting damages. (FAC ¶37.)
 
Accordingly,
the demurrer is OVERRULED as to the fourth cause of action.
 
Fifth Cause of
Action for Violations of Business and Professions Code Section 17200
 
            Defendants demur to the fifth cause
of action on the grounds that it is duplicative of Plaintiff’s professional
negligence claims, and that there are no allegations establishing violations of
Business and Professions Code Section 1600 et seq. or any other regulation. To
successfully plead a UCL claim, a plaintiff must plead and prove that the
defendant engaged in a business practice that was either unlawful (i.e., is
forbidden by law) or unfair (i.e., harm to victim outweighs any benefit) or
fraudulent (i.e., is likely to deceive members of the public). (Albillo v.
Intermodal Container Services, Inc. (2003) 114 Cal.App.4th 190, 206.)  
 
First,
the fact
that one cause of action is duplicative or mirrors another cause of action is
not a ground on which a demurrer must be sustained under section 430.10, in
part because “it is a waste of time and judicial resources to entertain a
motion challenging part of a pleading on the sole ground of
repetitiveness.”  (Blickman Turkus, LP v. MF Downtown Sunnyvale, LLC
(2008) 162 Cal.App.4th 858, 889-890; see Award Metals, Inc. v. Superior
Court (1991) 228 Cal.App.3d 1128, 1135 [a court may sustain a
demurrer for “duplicative pleading which adds nothing to the complaint by way
of fact or theory”].)  The argument that two causes of action are
duplicative “is the sort of defect that, if it justifies any judicial
intervention at all, is ordinarily dealt with most economically at trial, or on
a dispositive motion such as summary judgment.” (Blickman, supra, 162
Cal.App.4th at 889-890.)   
 
Second,
Plaintiff pleads the facts of a violation of law. Hill allegedly failed to
comply with all licensing, certification, and training requirements of the
Dental Practice Act set forth at Business and Professions Code § 1600 et seq.
(FAC ¶52.) Specifically, Hill directed persons employed by her to render dental
services to patients such as Plaintiff, even though those employees had not
been properly trained, certified, and licensed as required under the Act.
(Id. ¶¶13, 22, 28-31, 35-36, 39, 42-43, 52.) It is not disputed that employees
performing such services would need to be licensed or certified as dentists or
assistants. (Bus & Prof. Code §§ 1625, 1750.) Whether or not the cited
employees were properly trained, certified and licensed would be a question of
fact that cannot be determined at the pleading stage. Thus, Plaintiff pleads as
a matter of fact that Hill employed and directed unlicensed dentists/dental
assistants.
 
Third,
Defendants fail to address the fraud prong of the UCL claim. Plaintiff alleges
a constructive fraud claim, based on an omission of material fact, regarding
her Invisalign treatment. Defendants cite no authority suggesting that such a
claim could not fall under the fraud framework of the UCL. Read liberally, the
type of deception described would likely deceive members of the public. Thus,
the case would also be valid on the fraud prong. 
 
Accordingly,
the demurrer is OVERRULED as to this cause of action.
            