  Case Number:  22VECV01184    Hearing Date:   March 26, 2024    Dept:  107 


 
SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
  CALIFORNIA
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES
NORTHWEST DISTRICT
 




 
Golden State
  Medical Services, LLC,
  
           Plaintiff,
 
   v.
 
Terry McElroy,
 
          Defendant.


 
 
   Case Number             Department
    22VECV01184                  107




 
 
COURT’S [TENTATIVE] RULING RE: 
Motion
  to Disqualify/Recuse Counsel
 



[THE FOLLOWING IS A TENTATIVE RULING IN THE ABOVE CASE]: THE MOTION IS
DENIED.
 
I. BACKGROUND
On February 4,
2022, plaintiff Golden State Medical Services, LLC (“Plaintiff”) and defendant
Terry McElroy (“Defendant” and, together with Plaintiff, “Parties”) entered
into an agreement through which Defendant assigned his rights in certain liens
on patients to Plaintiff. (Complaint p. 2.) On March 7, 2022, Defendant told
Plaintiff that the agreement was not valid. (Ibid.)
 
On August 17,
2022, Plaintiff initiated this lawsuit by filing a complaint alleging a cause
of action for breach of contract.
 
On October 28,
2022, Defendant filed a cross-complaint against, inter alios, Plaintiff
alleging causes of action for (1) financial elder abuse, (2) fraudulent deceit
under Civil Code Sec. 1709, (3) breach of fiduciary duty, and (4) identity
theft.
 
On February 27,
2024, Plaintiff filed the instant motion to disqualify counsel (the “Motion”).
On March 13, 2024, Defendant filed an opposition (the “Opposition”) to the
Motion, and on March 18, 2024, Plaintiff replied to the Opposition. 
 
II. PARTIES’ POSITIONS
 

The Motion

 
Plaintiff moves to disqualify Defendant’s counsel, Steven J. Renshaw
(“Renshaw”) on the grounds that he is a “key and percipient witness in this
matter.” (Notice of Motion p. 1.)
 
Plaintiff explains that this court has the power to disqualify
Defendant’s counsel to preserve the integrity of the judicial process and the
bar. (Motion p. 3.) Plaintiff contends that Renshaw acted as Defendant’s
“lawyer and collector on the liens after the relationship of Plaintiff and
Defendant terminated” and that he therefore “possesses highly probative
information” on issues that are contested in this lawsuit. (Id. at p. 4.)
Plaintiffs state their desire to depose Renshaw and entitlement to call him as
a witness. (Ibid.) Plaintiff contends that California Rules of Professional
Conduct Rule 3.7 permits this court the discretion to disqualify an attorney to
protect the other party from prejudice and to protect the judicial process from
being compromised. (Id. at pp. 5–6.) Plaintiff argues that it has standing to
seek Renshaw’s disqualification because his continued representation of
Defendant constitutes a direct harm to Plaintiff. (Id. at p. 7.)
 

The Opposition

 
Defendant accuses
Plaintiff of bringing the Motion is an attempt to delay trial. (Opposition p.
3.) Defendant argues that Renshaw has obtained written consent of Plaintiff to
proceed as his trial attorney and as a witness, and the court’s discretion to disqualify
him is thereby made permissible only upon a convincing demonstration of
detriment to the opponent. (Id. at p. 4.) Defendant contends that Plaintiff
does not need Renshaw’s testimony to establish information that is not readily
available elsewhere. (Id. at pp. 4–5.) Defendant distinguishes this case
from a case cited by Plaintiff by emphasizing that Renshaw does not possess any
confidential information from Plaintiff. (Id. at pp. 5–6.)
 

The Reply

 
Plaintiff argues
that Renshaw will “likely be the sole witness advocating damages” in the
cross-complaint and that he is “the cornerstone of his client’s defense and
cross-complaint.” (Notice of Reply p. 2.) Plaintiff repeats that this court has
the authority to disqualify an attorney and that Renshaw will be a “star
witness” in this case. (Reply pp. 3–4.) Plaintiff argues that Renshaw never
provided it with “any written informed consent from his client,” which must
follow or include certain disclosures. (Id. at pp. 4–5.) 
 
III. ANALYSIS
 
“[California Rules of Professional Conduct]
Rule 3.7 provides, ‘A lawyer shall not act as an advocate in a
trial in which the lawyer is likely to be a witness unless: (1) the lawyer's
testimony relates to an uncontested issue or matter; (2) the lawyer's testimony
relates to the nature and value of legal services rendered in the case; or (3)
the lawyer has obtained informed written consent from the client.’ Comment 3
to Rule 3.7…clarifies that the informed-consent exception is not absolute:
‘Notwithstanding a client's informed written consent, courts retain discretion
to take action, up to and including disqualification of a lawyer who seeks
to both testify and serve as an advocate, to protect the trier of fact from
being misled or the opposing party from being prejudiced.’” (Geringer v.
Blue Rider Finance (2023) 94 Cal.App.5th 813, 822.) “The court's discretion
to disqualify a likely advocate-witness notwithstanding client consent—the
exception to the exception—has been judicially interpreted to be permissible
only upon ‘a convincing demonstration of detriment to the opponent or injury to
the integrity of the judicial process.’” (Ibid.) “[T]he general rule is
that an attorney may serve as both advocate and witness, testifying at
trial concerning disputed issues, if the client has provided its informed
written consent. Disqualification of counsel when consent has
been given must be based on a convincing showing of prejudice to the
opposing party or the potential for palpable injury to the judicial process.” (Id.
at 822–23.) “Motions to disqualify counsel are especially prone
to tactical abuse because disqualification imposes heavy
burdens on both the clients and courts: clients are deprived of their
chosen counsel, litigation costs inevitably increase and delays inevitably
occur.” (Sharp v. Next Entertainment, Inc. (2008) 163 Cal.App.4th 410,
424.)
 
Although Rule 3.7
is limited on its face to trial, courts have found that “an attorney who
intends to testify at trial may not participate in any pretrial activities
which carry the risk of revealing the attorney's dual role to the jury. In
particular, a testifying attorney should not take or defend depositions.” (Lopez
v. Lopez (2022) 81 Cal.App.5th 412, 424.)
 
“In exercising its
discretion to disqualify counsel under the advocate-witness rule, a court must
consider: (1) whether counsel's testimony is, in fact, genuinely needed; (2)
the possibility opposing counsel is using the motion to disqualify for purely
tactical reasons; and (3) the combined effects of the strong interest parties
have in representation by counsel of their choice, and in avoiding the
duplicate expense and time-consuming effort involved in replacing counsel
already familiar with the case. Trial judges must indicate on the record they
have considered the appropriate factors and make specific findings of fact when
weighing the conflicting interests involved in recusal motions.” (Doe v. Yim
(2020) 55 Cal.App.5th 573, 583–84, internal citations and quotation marks
omitted.) “[O]ne side of the balance in determining a recusal motion is a
client's right to be represented by counsel of its choice, as well as
the financial burden created when disqualified counsel must be
replaced.” (Geringer v. Blue Rider Finance, supra at 823.) The
prejudice against the party whose attorney is disqualified is “extreme” when
the attorney has represented the client for years on the same case and been
extensively involved in litigating it. (Ibid.) “The party resisting
disqualification bears the burden of establishing the facts making
disqualification inappropriate.” (Rhaburn v. Superior Court (2006) 140
Cal.App.4th 1566, 1573.)
 
Extreme or
unreasonable delay in bringing a motion to disqualify can impliedly waive
disqualification of counsel. (Liberty National Enterprises, L.P. v. Chicago
Title Ins. Co. (2011) 194 Cal.App.4th 839, 844–45.) Delay is “also an
indication that the alleged breach of confidentiality was not seen as serious
or substantial by the moving party.” (Id. at 847.) Factors to take into
account in determining if a delay is unreasonable include (1) the stage of
litigation at which the disqualification motion is made, (2) the complexity of
the case, (3) the possibility that the party brought the motion as a tactical
device to delay litigation, and (4) the moving party’s justification for the
delay. (Id. at 846–47.) A delay of two years may be unreasonable. (Id.
at 845–48.)
 
We note that
Plaintiff brings the Motion over a year and a half after the initiation of this
lawsuit, raising the question of whether this delay is so unreasonable as to
impliedly waive disqualification of counsel. Renshaw has acted as the sole
counsel for Defendant in this lawsuit “since the outset” and has worked
approximately 300 hours on it. (Renshaw Decl. ¶¶ 1–2.) Plaintiff was
surely aware of this since it was Renshaw who signed and submitted Defendant’s
answer to Plaintiff’s complaint in October 2022, yet Plaintiff waited a year
and a half until a few months before trial is set to begin to move to
disqualify Renshaw. Defendant raises the arguments that he is elderly and would
be forced to incur significant additional expense to replace Renshaw, and that
being forced to hire new counsel at this stage in the litigation would cause a
significant delay in trial. (Motion p. 3.) Plaintiff does not explain in either
the Motion or the Reply that it only discovered the nature of Renshaw’s work
negotiating his client’s liens after Parties broke off their relationship in
March 2022, but we acknowledge this possibility, and in light of it, we decline
to find that Plaintiff’s delay in bringing the Motion is unreasonable or that
Plaintiff has waived disqualification of counsel.
 
Here, Plaintiff
alleges an intent to depose Renshaw and to call Renshaw as a witness at trial,
thus implicating Rule 3.7. (Motion p. 4.) Renshaw’s testimony, if needed,
relates to a contested matter and does not relate to legal services rendered,
so for his continued representation of Defendant to be permissible under Rule
3.7, Defendant must have provided his informed written consent. Plaintiff
challenges the informed consent that Defendant signed for Renshaw to act as
both his counsel and trial witness, if necessary, as “only a vague letter”
instead of a declaration signed under penalty of perjury. (Reply p. 4.)
Defendant submits a copy of the consent attached to Renshaw’s declaration, in
which Defendant states that he and Renshaw have “discussed the possible issues
that could arise if he were to serve as a witness and advocate” “at length.”
(Renshaw Decl. Exh. “B.”) The California Rules of Professional Conduct define
“informed consent” as “a person’s agreement to a proposed course of conduct
after the lawyer has communicated and explained (i) the relevant circumstances
and (ii) the material risks, including any actual and reasonably foreseeable
adverse consequences of the proposed course of conduct.” (Rule 1.01, subd.
(e).) They define “written” the same as Evidence Code sec. 250, which defines
“writing” as “every [] means of recording upon any tangible thing, any
form of communication or representation, including letters…, regardless of the
manner in which the record has been stored.” (Rule 1.01, subd. (n); Evid. Code
§ 250.) Thus, Defendant’s written consent need not be provided in a
declaration signed under penalty of perjury and a letter is sufficient to meet
the requirements of Rule 3.7. We are also satisfied that Defendant’s written
consent sufficiently shows that it is informed for purposes of Rule 3.7.
Defendant expresses in the consent that Renshaw discussed disclosures with him
about possible risks at length. Defendant need not recite the exact definition
of “informed” to convey that his consent is indeed informed. Thus, we find that
Defendant’s informed written consent adequately creates an exception to Rule
3.7 for Renshaw’s continued representation of him.
 
Parties dispute
whether Renshaw’s testimony as a witness will be necessary. Plaintiff alleges
that after Parties broke off their relationship in March 2022, Renshaw
“singularly took over his client's lien collections thereafter, enforced them,
negotiated them, collected them and then disbursed them to his client,
[Defendant].” (Motion p. 4.) Defendant admits that Renshaw “performed the
mundane task of reviewing and collecting the liens” and sometimes negotiated or
resolved liens. (Opposition p. 3.) Plaintiff argues that this makes Renshaw a
percipient witness because “these matters [] are key to the issues of the
alleged wrongs of [Plaintiff] as well as damages claimed by [Defendant].”
(Motion p. 4.) Defendant rebuts that “[i]nformation establishing the significant
difference in settlement averages can be obtained merely by examining the
documents relating to the liens and the accepted compromises.” (Opposition p.
3.) Thus, Parties agree as a factual matter that Renshaw possesses information
relevant to the determination of the case and how he came to possess this
information, but Parties disagree as to whether such possession of information
makes Renshaw a necessary witness or whether the same information can be
adequately established through other means and from other sources. Renshaw
submits with the Opposition a declaration which indicates that all his lien
collection negotiations for Defendant after Parties broke off their
relationship were recorded in writing. (Renshaw Decl. ¶ 6.) Thus, while
Parties may wish to and may call on Renshaw to testify as a witness, we do not
believe his testimony is necessary to establish Defendant’s damages, which may
alternatively be gleaned from Defendant’s written records.
 
Following Doe
v. Yim, supra at 583–84, in addition to considering whether
Renshaw’s testimony is genuinely needed, we also consider the possibility
Plaintiff is using the Motion for purely tactical reasons and the combined
effects of the strong interest Defendant has in representation by counsel of
his choice, and in avoiding the duplicate expense and time-consuming effort
involved in replacing Renshaw, who is already familiar with this lawsuit.
Although we declined above to find that Plaintiff’s delay in bringing the
Motion constitutes a waiver of disqualification of counsel, we do note that it
speaks to the possibility that Plaintiff is using the Motion for tactical
reasons to delay trial or to burden Defendant. And, because Renshaw has
represented Defendant for years and been extensively involved in litigating it
as Defendant’s sole counsel in this lawsuit, the prejudice against Defendant
that would be caused by disqualifying Renshaw may be considered “extreme.”
Thus, all the three factors outlined in Doe v. Yim, supra at
583–84 that a court should consider in exercising its discretion to disqualify
counsel under the advocate-witness rule direct us to decline to disqualify
Renshaw in this case.
 
Plaintiff
discusses Kennedy v. Eldridge (2011) 201 Cal.App.4th 1197 (hereafter, Kennedy)
for the proposition that for an attorney to also serve as a witness compromises
the integrity of the judicial system and puts the attorney’s loyalties in
conflict. (Motion pp. 5–6.) In Kennedy, the attorney whose
disqualification was sought represented his own son over his grandchild’s
paternity against the grandchild’s mother, whose own father was a former client
of the attorney’s firm and whose step-mother previously worked for the
attorney’s firm, and questions about the conditions of the attorney’s
household, in which his son lived, were necessary to the determination of the
case. (Kennedy, supra at 1201–02.) Indeed, questions about the
attorney’s and his family members’ marijuana use has already arisen in the
case, sowing confusion about whether the attorney was arguing as an advocate or
testifying as a witness when he denied personal marijuana use. (Id. at
1209–10.) In Kennedy, it was the “plethora of family entanglements,
potential misuse of confidential information, a conflict posed by the
near-certain prospect that counsel will have to testify, and the
preservation of the integrity of the judicial system” which all “coalesce[d]”
in putting the disqualification of the attorney within the court’s discretion.
(Id. at 1200.) The facts of Kennedy are thus far removed from the
facts of the instant case, where there are no allegations of familial or
confidential relationships, where Renshaw does not possess any information not
obtainable elsewhere, and where the conditions of Renshaw’s personal household
are not subject to dispute or even remotely relevant.
 
Accordingly, this
court DENIES the Motion.
 
 
 
 
 
Dated:             March
26, 2024                                               _______­­­­­­­­­­___________________________                                                                                                                  Hon. Eric Harmon
Judge
of the Superior Court