  Case Number:  22TRCV00834    Hearing Date:   November 1, 2023    Dept:  B LOS ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT –
SOUTHWEST DISTRICT
 
 
Honorable Gary Y. Tanaka                                                                              Wednesday, November 1, 2023
Department B                                                                                                                             Calendar No. 9
  
 
PROCEEDINGS
 
David
W. Munn v. Daniel R. Sallus, et al.  
22TRCV00834
1.      David Munn’s Motion to Compel Production of Documents
(1) Kenneth Peterson, CPA, (2) Titan Financial & Insurance Services, Inc.,
and (3) U.S. Bank, N.A.  
2.      John Munn’s Motion to Quash Subpoena for Business of
Records of Kenneth Peterson, CPA
3.      John Munn’s Motion to Quash Subpoena for Business of
Records of Titan Financial & Insurance Services, Inc.
4.      John Munn’s Motion to Quash Subpoena for Business
Records of U.S. Bank N.A.
5.      Michael R. Huff’s Motion to be Relieved as Counsel for
David W. Munn 
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 
            David Munn’s Motion to Compel
Production of Documents (1) Kenneth Peterson, CPA, (2) Titan Financial &
Insurance Services, Inc., and (3) U.S. Bank, N.A. is denied.
 
John Munn’s Motions to Quash Subpoenas for Business
Records of Kenneth Peterson, CPA, Titan Financial & Insurance Services,
Inc., and U.S. Bank N.A. are granted.
 
Michael R. Huff’s Motion to be Relieved as Counsel for
David W. Munn is granted.
 
Background
 
            Plaintiff filed the Complaint on September 16, 2022, and
the First Amended Complaint was filed on April 4, 2023. Plaintiff alleges the
following facts. This is a legal malpractice action related to an underlying
estate and probate action. Plaintiff alleges the following causes of action: 1.
Professional Negligence; 2. Breach of Contract; 3. Breach of Fiduciary Duty. 
            
Motions to Compel/Quash Deposition Subpoenas 
 
Where the witness whose deposition is sought is not a
party, a subpoena must be served to compel the witness’ attendance, testimony,
or production of documents. CCP §§ 2020.010(b), 2025.280(b); Terry v. SLICO
(2009) 175 Cal.App.4th 352, 357. Personal service of a deposition subpoena
obligates a California resident to appear, testify and produce documents
specified in the subpoena, and to appear in any proceedings to enforce
discovery.  CCP § 2020.220(c).  The deposition subpoena may be enforced by a
motion to compel compliance pursuant to CCP § 1987.1.  If a nonparty disobeys a deposition subpoena,
the subpoenaing party may seek a court order compelling the nonparty to comply
with the subpoena within 60 days after completion of the deposition
record.  CCP § 2025.480(b); Unzipped Apparel, LLC v. Bader (2007)
156 Cal.App.4th 123, 127.  
 
Pursuant to Code Civ. Proc. § 1987.1:  “If a subpoena requires the attendance of a
witness or the production of books, documents, electronically stored
information, or other things before a court, or at the trial of an issue
therein, or at the taking of a deposition, the court, upon motion reasonably
made by any person described in subdivision (b), or upon the court's own motion
after giving counsel notice and an opportunity to be heard, may make an order
quashing the subpoena entirely, modifying it, or directing compliance with it
upon those terms or conditions as the court shall declare, including protective
orders. In addition, the court may make any other order as may be appropriate
to protect the person from unreasonable or oppressive demands, including
unreasonable violations of the right of privacy of the person.”
 
Cal. Rules of Court Rule 3.1345(a)(5) states:
“Except as provided in (b), any motion involving the
content of a discovery request or the responses to such a request must be
accompanied by a separate statement. The motions that require a separate
statement include a motion: (5) To compel or to quash the production of
documents or tangible things at a deposition.”
 
Plaintiff David Munn moves to compel production of the
following documents: (1) bank records from deceased Dorothy Munn’s bank, U.S.
Bank, NA, (2) accounting records from Dorothy Munn’s accountant, Kenneth
Peterson, CPA, and (3) financial advisor records from Dorothy’s financial
advisor Titan Financial & Insurance Services, Inc.  While Plaintiff David Munn’s notice of motion
frames the motion as a motion to compel “production” of “documents,” in fact,
the document production requests were sought in the form of deposition
subpoenas directed to the above-named non-party entities.  However, in the Notice of Motion, page iv, Plaintiff
admits that the deposition subpoenas have not been served upon the above-named
non-party entities. “By the Motion, Plaintiff Munn seeks an order compelling
the production of deceased Dorothy Munn’s records as specifically requested by
three subpoenas issued but not yet served on Kenneth Peterson, CPA,
Titan Financial & Insurance Services, Inc., and U.S. Bank, NA.”  (Notice of Motion, page iv, emphasis added.)
 
Thus, without showing that the deposition subpoenas were
properly personally served as required by statute, the motion to compel
compliance with the deposition subpoenas must be denied outright. There can be
no order to compel compliance with deposition subpoenas that were never served.
 
As to non-party John Munn’s Motions to Quash
Deposition Subpoenas, the motions are granted. 
 
Plaintiff’s failure to personally serve the deposition
subpoenas mandates the granting of the motions to quash the deposition
subpoenas. In addition, the deposition subpoenas are facially defective as
Plaintiff’s counsel names himself as the deposition officer and Plaintiff’s
counsel has failed to show that he is a qualified deposition officer under the
requirements of CCP § 1985.3(a)(4) and CCP § 2020.420. In addition, the
subpoenas are overly broad and seek private financial records of third parties
to the instant action. 
 
“The state Constitution expressly grants Californians
a right of privacy. (Cal. Const., art. I, §1.) Protection of informational
privacy is the provision’s central concern.” 
Williams v. Superior Court (2017) 3 Cal.5th 531, 552. “[W]hen a
discovery request seeks information implicating the constitutional right of
privacy, to order discovery simply upon a showing that the Code of Civil
Procedure section 2017.010 test for relevance has been met is an abuse of
discretion.”  Williams v. Superior
Court, supra, 3 Cal.5th at 556 (citations omitted).
 
In Hill v. National Collegiate Athletic Assn.
(1994) 7 Cal.4th 1, 35-37, the California Supreme Court “established a
framework for evaluating potential invasions of privacy.  The party asserting a privacy right must
establish a legally protected privacy interest, an objectively reasonable
expectation of privacy in the given circumstances, and a threatened intrusion
that is serious. . . . . The party seeking information may raise in response
whatever legitimate and important countervailing interests disclosure serves,
while the party seeking protection may identify feasible alternatives that
serve the same interests or protective measures that would diminish the loss of
privacy. A court must then balance these competing considerations.” Williams
v. Superior Court, supra, 3 Cal.5th at 552 (citations omitted). In Hill,
the Court “explained that not ‘every assertion of a privacy interest under
article I, section 1 must be overcome by a “compelling interest.” . . . . A
‘“compelling interest”’ is still required to justify ‘an obvious invasion of an
interest fundamental to personal autonomy.’” 
Id. at 556.
 
Disclosure depends upon balancing the need for
discovery against the need for confidentiality. 
“Courts must instead place the burden on the party asserting a privacy
interest to establish its extent and the seriousness of the prospective
invasion, and against that showing must weigh the countervailing interests the
opposing party identifies, as Hill requires.”  Williams v. Superior Court (2017) 3
Cal.5th 531, 557.  
 
A right of privacy exists as to a party’s confidential
financial affairs, even when the information is relevant to the litigation. See
Cobb v. Superior Court (1979) 99 Cal.App.3d 543, 550.  Financial information given to a bank by a
customer is protected by the right to privacy. 
“[T]here is a right to privacy in confidential customer information
whatever form it takes, whether that form be tax returns, checks, statements,
or other account information.” Fortunato v. Superior Court (2003) 114
Cal.App.4th 475, 481. 
 
Plaintiff has failed to show that his need for the
private financial information of third parties outweighs the third parties’
financial right of privacy.
 
Sanctions
 
Moving party’s requests for monetary sanctions are
denied. Code Civ. Proc., § 2023.040 states, in relevant part: “A request for a
sanction shall, in the notice of motion, identify every person, party, and
attorney against whom the sanction is sought, and specify the type of sanction
sought.” 
 
Here, the notices of the motions failed to identify
every person, party, and attorney against whom the sanctions are sought and
failed to specify the type of sanctions sought. 
 
Non-party John Munn is ordered to give notice of the
Court’s ruling on the Plaintiff’s Motion to Compel Production of Documents and
Non-party John Munn’s Motions to Quash Deposition Subpoenas. 
 
Motion to be Relieved as Counsel
 
Michael R. Huff’s Motion to be Relieved as Counsel for
David W. Munn is granted.
 
Counsel states, in the
declaration, valid reasons for withdrawal. Counsel states that there has been a
breakdown in the relationship of the parties. The Court finds that the attorney
has filed and served upon the client a declaration.  The Court also finds that the attorney has
shown sufficient reasons why the motion to be relieved as counsel should be
granted and why the attorney has brought a motion under Code of Civil Procedure
§ 284(2) instead of filing a consent under section 284(1). The Court finds that
counsel served the proposed order upon the client and all parties as required
by Cal. Rules of Court, Rule 3.1362(d)(1).
 
Therefore, the
motion to be relieved as counsel is granted.
 
The attorney
is relieved as counsel of record for the client effective upon the filing of
the proof of service of the signed order upon the client. 
 

Counsel is ordered to give notice of the Court’s
ruling on the motion to be relieved as counsel. 