  Case Number:  18STPB11082    Hearing Date:   October 2, 2024    Dept:  200 LOS ANGELES
SUPERIOR COURT 
WEST DISTRICT -
BEVERLY HILLS COURTHOUSE 
DEPT. 200
 
TENTATIVE
RULING ON MOTION FOR ORDER STAYING ENFORCEMENT OF ORDER AWARDING ATTORNEYS’
FEES AND COSTS  
 
Ming-Chao Huang, et
al. v. Michael Velcherean, Case No. 18STPB11082 (related to Case No.
19STCV01901)
Hearing Date: October
2, 2024, 8:30 a.m. 
 
INTRODUCTION
          On April 23,
2024, the Court filed its ruling imposing monetary sanctions against moving
party Michael Velcherean (“MV”) in the total sum of $179,964.63 (representing
attorneys’ fees and costs) by reason of an earlier ruling filed March 27, 2024
finding MV guilty of spoliation of evidence. 
          On May 22, 2024,
MV filed a notice of appeal from the above-referenced order. 
 
STATEMENT OF CONTENTIONS
          On May 23,
2024, MV filed this motion. MV brings this motion pursuant to Code of Civil
Procedure (“CCP”) sec. 918.5(a). MV contends there is another action pending
between him and judgment creditors herein by reason of which he is likely to
recover a far greater sum from judgment creditors that should set off the order
on appeal here. He explains that this section codifies the equitable principle
that a party has a right of set-off as well as ensure that a judgment debtor as
he is here not forfeit any of any future judgment from an impecunious creditor.
(Airfloor Co. v. Regents of UC (1979) 97 Cal.App.3d 739) 
          Specifically,
MV contends that in his First Amended Cross-Complaint (“FACC”) in the
above-referenced related civil case, judgment creditors here wrongfully
withheld from him as the surviving spouse of Amy Huang (“Amy”) shares in
O’Tasty Foods (“OTF”) that judgment creditors had given to Amy, which is
community property having a value of over $11 million according to a valuation by
the Probate Referee. In turn, the Special Administrator is holding several
million in OTF dividends that are also the subject of the FACC. MV contends he
is likely to prevail on the FACC because Judge Small (in denying on December
30, 2022 judgment creditors’ motion for summary judgment on the FACC) found
that the shares may not have been a “gift” (that judgment creditors would be
entitled to rescind) where there were allegedly conditions on the transfer of
those shares - that the donor retained pursuant to the OTF bylaws - which as a
result would not qualify them as gifts. MV therefore contends that if he
prevails on the FACC that would be a complete offset to the order on appeal
here.    
          On July 26,
2024, Amy’s parents and sister (“judgment creditors”) filed opposition to the
motion. They assert five grounds for denial of the motion: 
          First, the
motion is brought in bad faith because MV is in default on the appeal in
designating the record.  
          Second, under
Probate Code sec. 1310(e), there can be no stay absent posting of a bond under
CCP sec. 917.1.
          Third, CCP
sec. 918.5, on which the motion is based, does not apply in a Probate case
where the Probate Code provides a more specific applicable rule than under the
CCP. 
          Fourth, if CCP
sec. 918.5 does apply, MV is not likely to prevail in the civil case and the
doctrine of unclean hands precludes him from entitlement to recovering the
equitable relief embodied in sec. 918.5. 
          Fifth, there
is no risk of any judgment against judgment creditors being unsatisfied where
the assets in question are held by the Special Administrator of Amy’s estate. 
          On August 2,
2024, MV filed a Reply in support of the motion. MV points to Wegner, et al.,
RUTTER GROUP: Civil Trials and Evidence, para. 18:518, as the only
authority available concerning sec. 918. 5 and that it confirms the breadth of
scope of sec. 918.5 notwithstanding sec. 917.1. In addition, they note that In
re: Melvin A. (2000) 82 Cal.App.4th 1243, that judgment
creditors rely on, does not concern the Probate Code at all.  In addition, they emphasize that their
obtaining even a fraction of the OTF stock would far exceed the amount of the
order here. MV concludes that he is likely to prevail on his FACC because there
were no conditions on transfer of the stock and no evidence to support judgment
creditors being able to rescind the transfer based on their not knowing Amy was
married. 
          In view of
other proceedings in this case, the Court has had to continue the hearing on
this motion several times. 
 
DISCUSSION 
          CCP sec. 918.5(b)
sets forth three factors for the Court to consider in deciding this motion: 
(1)   
The likelihood of the judgment debtor prevailing
in the other action. 
(2)   
The amount of the judgment of the judgment
creditor as compared to the amount of the probable recovery of the judgment
debtor in the action on the disputed claim. 
(3)   
The financial ability of the judgment creditor
to satisfy the judgment if a judgment is rendered against the judgment creditor
in the action on the disputed claim.  
          Two of
judgment creditors’ arguments – that the motion is brought in bad faith because
MV is in default in preparing the record on appeal and that MV is not entitled
to relief by reason of unclean hands – do not fall within the above-referenced
considerations in the statute to decide the motion and can therefore be
summarily dispensed with. Moreover, if MV fails to cure a default in preparing
the record on appeal the Court of Appeal will presumably dismiss the appeal,
thereby making any stay short-lived and ultimately moot. In turn,  judgment creditors have not shown that a Court
may permissibly consider the nature of the order on appeal to decide whether a
stay should be issued. 
          That said, the
Court needs to preliminarily address whether CCP sec. 918.5 applies to this
appeal in a Probate case. If not, the motion would have to be denied. Judgment
creditors make this a two-fold argument; however, it boils down to whether Probate
Code sec. 1310(e) displaces CCP sec. 918.5. Judgment creditors offer no
authority to support that claim.[1]
Initially, though when read alone sec. 1310(e) might suggest there was no room for
sec. 918.5 and only a bond would suffice for a stay to issue, this reads too
much into sec. 1310(e). The statute does not state that CCP sec. 917 is the
only relevant section in the CCP pertaining to a bond. Sec. 917 is one part of
a bigger chapter of the Code pertaining to stay of enforcement of judgments providing
for when a bond is required and not required. Hence, the Court does not find
that sec. 1310(e) precludes consideration of sec. 918.5 or that it is a more
“specific” provision than that found in the CCP. Sec. 1310(e) does not state
specifically whether consideration of a setoff is permitted. Instead, under
sec. 1000(a), therefore, the Probate Code adopts the CCP concerning determination
of a bond. There is no reason to believe that the Probate Code only
incorporates one part of that chapter but not the other parts. Sec. 918.5 is a
specified situation to when sec. 917.1 would not apply. Moreover, sec. 918.5
codifies equitable considerations and a Probate case is an equitable
proceeding. Therefore, these equitable considerations should still apply even
if the statute does not. 
         Turning to the
substance of the motion, the Court finds initially that there is no question
that under the second element under sec. 918.5 to consider that the amount of
any set-off, if recovered, would far exceed the amount of the order here –
thereby justifying a stay. As to the third element for consideration, the Court
finds, however, that there is no need for a stay to protect MV’s right to
collect on any judgment he might recover against judgment creditors. Initially,
there is no evidence that judgment creditors are impecunious. In addition, MV
has protection already that Amy’s OTF stock is held by the Special
Administrator, subject to release only by court order, not by judgment
creditors. 
          The crux of
the dispute here, however, is not over the foregoing elements but rather under
the first element to consider: whether MV is likely to prevail in the civil
case such that it is likely he has a setoff against judgment creditors that
could be a basis for a stay pending appeal of this order. The Court finds
little likelihood: MV discusses only the FACC, not judgment creditors’ Third
Amended Complaint (“TAC”) in the civil case for wrongful death and dependent
adult abuse. 
          Even
assuming that MV was likely to prevail on his FACC concerning his right as a
surviving spouse to the OTF stock, as purportedly community rather than
separate property, in the event judgment creditors prevail on their TAC, MV may
be deemed to have predeceased Amy under Probate Code sec. 259. As set forth in
the Tentative Statement of Decision on the Will Contest, filed September 24,
2024, the Court has heard considerable evidence whereby it is likely that
judgment creditors may prevail on their TAC.[2]
Therefore, MC is not likely to recover under the FACC. 
          Moreover,
even leaving aside the TAC, the Court still does not find it likely MV will
prevail on the FACC. Whether there were conditions placed on transfer of the
shares to Amy by reason of the OTF bylaws, this bench officer at least has
heard no evidence that the intent behind the transfer of the shares to Amy was not
“donative.” Even if Yu Ching Huang received consideration from Ming-Chao Huang
for the shares that were given to Amy, there is no evidence Amy provided any
consideration for the shares to her father. If the shares were effectively a
gift from Amy’s father, judgment creditors (and Yu Ching Huang) may be able to
rescind the transfer where Amy had not told either her father or her cousin (or
anyone) that she was married.[3] Her
not being married would be material to their belief that as a single person she
had nobody else to rely upon. MV does not address this issue. Moreover, there
is at least some question from the trial of the will contest whether the
restrictions on transfer of OTF shares were in fact included within the by-laws
in any event. 
         
Consequently, the Court finds that there is no likely set-off that would
justify a stay here. 
 
CONCLUSION 
          For
these reasons, the Court denies the motion.  

