  Case Number:  21VECV01054    Hearing Date:   March 11, 2024    Dept:  W LAURA RUANO v.
JULIE GOLDBERG, et al.
 
MOTIONs FOR PROTECTIVE ORDER AND special
motion to strike  
 
Date of Hearing:        March
11, 2024                                 Trial
Date:       None
Set
Department:              W                                                        Case
No.:        21VECV01054
 
BACKGROUND
 
This case was originally an action by Plaintiff
Laura Ruano (“Laura”) against Defendants Luis Roberto Ruano II ("Luis”)
and Julie Goldberg ("Goldberg”).  On August 10, 2021, Laura filed her
original complaint, alleging: (1) breach of fiduciary duties as to Goldberg;
(2) intentional interference with marital relations as to both Defendants; and
(3) intentional infliction of emotional distress (“IIED”) as to both
Defendants. 
 
On April 19, 2022, Goldberg filed her
cross-complaint against Laura, alleging the following causes of action against
various cross-defendants: (1) assault; (2) battery; (3) trespass to chattels;
(4) false light; (5) intentional interference with contractual relations; (6)
IIED; (7) negligence; (8) negligent retention and supervision of employee; (9)
defamation; (10) abuse of process; (11) professional negligence; and (12)
negligent infliction of emotional distress. On August 2, 2022, the court
granted Ms. Ruano’s Special Motion to Strike and struck Cross-Complainants’
claim for false light, intentional interference with contractual relations,
IIED, defamation, abuse of process, and NIED.      
 
On March 5, 2022, Laura filed her first
amended complaint (the “FAC”) against Goldberg and Luis, alleging: (1)
ejectment; (2) conversion; (3) defamation per se; and (4) NIED.  On July
8, 2022, the Court struck Laura’s FAC without prejudice on the ground that
Plaintiff’s counsel had failed to meet and confer with defense counsel prior to
its filing. 
 
On August 27, 2022, Laura filed her
second amended complaint (the “SAC”) against Goldberg and Luis, alleging: (1)
breach of fiduciary duty; (2) IIED; (3) ejectment; (4) conversion; (5)
defamation per se; and (6) NIED. On December 13, 2022, the Court struck
the SAC on the ground that Plaintiff’s counsel had failed to meet and confer
with defense counsel prior to its filing. 
 
On March 2, 2023, Laura filed her
motion for leave to file a third amended complaint (the “TAC”).  On March
28, 2023, the court granted Laura’s motion. Laura filed her TAC on April 6,
2023 for ejectment, conversion, defamation per se, and negligent infliction of
emotional distress. Defendants demurred to the TAC and on October 30, 2023,
Laura filed a 4AC for ejectment, conversion, and defamation per se. On January
3, 2024, Plaintiff filed a 5AC, asserting four additional causes of action for
unfair business practices, elder abuse, and civil harassment. 
 
[Tentative] Ruling
 
I.                   
Plaintiff
Laura Ruano’s Motion for Protective Order; Request for Order Awarding Monetary
Sanctions is MOOT
II.                 
Cross-Complainant
Julie Ann Goldberg’s Motion for a Protective Order in Response to
Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant Laura Ruano’s Subpoenas for Production of Business
Records is DENIED. 
III.               
Defendants
Luis Roberto Ruano II And Luis R. Ruano’s Special Motion To Strike Causes Of
Action From The Fifth Amended Complaint is DENIED. 
ANALYSIS
 
I.                   
PLAINTIFF LAURA RUANO’S MOTION FOR PROTECTIVE ORDER; REQUEST FOR ORDER
AWARDING MONETARY SANCTIONS
 
Plaintiff
Laura Ruano moves the court for an order preventing the production of business
records in response to Defendant Luis Roberto Ruano II’s deposition subpoena
for production of business records to Bank of America. 
 
“If a
subpoena requires . . . the production of books, documents, electronically
stored information, or other things before a court, or at the trial of an issue
therein, or at the taking of a deposition, the court, upon motion reasonably
made by any person described in subdivision (b) . . . may make an order
quashing the subpoena entirely, modifying it, or directing compliance with it
upon those terms or conditions as the court shall declare, including protective
orders.  In addition, the court may make
any other order as may be appropriate to protect the person from unreasonable
or oppressive demands, including unreasonable violations of the right of
privacy of the person.” (CCP § 1987.1(a).) Subdivision (b) of Section 1987.1
states that "a party" may bring a motion to quash a subpoena pursuant
to subdivision (a). (CCP § 1987.1(b).) For a deposition subpoena issued in a
civil action, the third party has either 15 days after the service, or 20 days
after issuance of the deposition subpoena, whichever date is later, in which to
respond.  (CCP § 2020.410(c).)
 
Plaintiff
argues the subpoena seeks the production of ten plus years of private financial
records without subject matter limitation for every bank account on which Plaintiffs
is a holder and/or signer. Plaintiff further argues the subpoena is facially
defective for failure to provide sufficient notice. 
 
In
opposition, Defendant argues the motion is moot ab initio because the subpoena
had never been served on Bank of America. The court agrees. Plaintiff states
this assertion contradicts what the bank told them. However, Plaintiff provides
no proof of service or declaration attesting that the Bank actually received a
subpoena. As such, the court cannot rule on a motion for protective order for
which no subpoena was served. Defendant provides a declaration attesting that
they did prepare the deposition subpoena but never mailed, served, sent or
forwarded it to the Bank of America. (Keleti Decl. ¶4.) As such, the Motion for
Protective Order is MOOT. 
 
II.                 
CROSS-COMPLAINANT JULIE ANN GOLDBERG’S MOTION FOR A PROTECTIVE ORDER IN RESPONSE
TO PLAINTIFF/CROSS-DEFENDANT LAURA RUANO’S SUBPOENAS FOR PRODUCTION OF BUSINESS
RECORDS
 
Cross-Complainant
Julie Ann Goldberg moves the court for an order preventing the production of
business records in response to Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant Laura Ruano’s
deposition subpoenas for production of business records. Ms. Goldberg makes the
motion on the grounds that a protective order is needed to prevent “unwarranted
embarrassment and oppression” of Ms. Goldberg.
 
Specifically,
the subpoenas request highly sensitive and private information that bear no
apparent connection to the claims of intentional infliction of emotional
distress and negligent infliction of emotional distress that stem from the
assault and battery inflicted upon Ms. Goldberg. Ms. Goldberg underwent an
emergency procedure conducted by Dr. Chopra. Gentera Center for Precision
Medicine is a medical center where Katherine M. Zagone, ND functions as a
naturopathic expert.  
 
In
opposition, Cross-Defendants argue the Subpoenas, limited in time and subject
matter, seek the medical records and billing records for patient Goldberg
because these providers have treated Goldberg for the claimed medical,
psychological and/or psychiatric injuries she attributes to the incident and
been identified in her responses to written discovery. Specifically, Goldberg
served answers to Form Interrogatories, Set One propounded by Plaintiff where
she attributed emotional and mental distress and stress-induced physical
autoimmune issues to the incident and additionally identified Katherine Zagone,
ND as a health care provider who treated her for the injuries she attributed to
the incident. Moreover, Plaintiff had a letter from Ritu Chopra, M.D., dated
May 30, 2023, advising Goldberg suffered with autoimmune disease the last two
years which necessitated surgery.
 
The court
finds the medical records from Dr. Zagone relevant and discoverable. Goldberg’s
own discovery indicates she received consultation, examination or treatment
from Dr. Zagone for injuries she attributed to the accident. Ruano is entitled
to records of all treatment received from Dr. Zagone from the date of injury to
the present.  As for Dr. Chopra, the
court agrees that cross-defendants are entitled to all records relating to Dr.
Chopra’s treatment of plaintiff for auto-immune diseases.  
 
Accordingly, Cross-Complainant
Julie Ann Goldberg’s Motion for a Protective Order in Response to
Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant Laura Ruano’s Subpoenas for Production of and Related
Cross-Action Business Records is DENIED. 
 
III.               
DEFENDANTS LUIS ROBERTO RUANO II AND LUIS R. RUANO’S SPECIAL MOTION TO
STRIKE CAUSES OF ACTION FROM THE FIFTH AMENDED COMPLAINT
 
Defendants
Roberto Ruano II and Luis R. Ruano move to strike Count Four for intentional
infliction of emotional distress, Count Five for unfair business practices, Count
Six for elder abuse and Count Seven for civil harassment alleged in the Fifth
Amended Complaint filed by Plaintiffs Laura Ruano and Thomas Monteleone,
pursuant to California Code of Civil Procedure § 425.16. Defendants make the
motion on the grounds that Plaintiffs’ causes of action are barred by the
litigation privilege under the anti-SLAPP Statute and Plaintiffs cannot
establish the possibility of prevailing on the claims.[1]
 
Evidentiary
Objections
 
Plaintiff
moves to strike Defendants’ Reply papers on the grounds they were not timely
submitted in accordance with California Code of Civil Procedure §1005(b) and improperly
seek to introduce new evidence on reply not previously raised in their moving
papers. 
 
First, the
court finds Plaintiff was not prejudiced by the untimely filing and service of
the Reply papers. Defendants filed and served the Reply four court days before
the hearing, rather than five. However, the court admonishes Defendants to
fully comply with all statues, rules, and requirements for the proper filing
and presentation of papers moving forward. As for Plaintiff’s new evidence
objection, the court agrees Defendants cannot submit new evidence on Reply. 
 
Discussion
 
On a special
motion to strike pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 425.16, also known
as an anti-SLAPP motion, moving parties have the initial burden to demonstrate
that a cause of action is subject to a special motion to strike. (Martinez
v. Metabolife Inter. Ins. (2003) 113 Cal.App.4th 181, 186; Fox
Searchlight Pictures Inc. v. Paladino (2001) 89 Cal.App.4th 294, 304.)
First, the court must determine whether moving parties have made a prima facie
showing that the attacked claims arise from a protected activity, including
defendants’ right of petition, or free speech, under a constitution, in
connection with issues of public interest. (Healy v. Tuscany Hills Landscape
& Recreation Corp. (2006) 137 Cal.App.4th 1, 5; Soukup v. Law
Offices of Herbert Hafif (2006) 39 Cal.4th 260, 278; CCP § 425.16(e).) 
 
If the court
finds this showing has been made, it must dismiss the cause of action unless
the plaintiff meets its burden to demonstrate a probability of prevailing on
the claim. (CCP §425.16(b)(1); Balzaga v. Fox News Network, LLC (2009)
173 Cal.App.4th 1325, 1336.) This means that the plaintiff must state a legally
sufficient claim and must then present evidence that substantiates or sustains
the claim. (Equilon Enterprises v. Consumer Cause, Inc. (2002) 29
Cal.4th 53, 61; see also Wilson v. Parker, Covert & Chidester (2002)
28 Cal.4th 811, 821 [plaintiff “must demonstrate that the complaint is both
legally sufficient and supported by a sufficient prima facie showing of facts
to sustain a favorable judgment if the evidence submitted by the plaintiff is
credited”].)
 
I.                   
Defendant’s
Burden
 
An act in
furtherance of a person's right to petition or free speech under the United
States Constitution or California Constitution includes “(1) any written or
oral statement or writing made before a legislative, executive, or judicial
proceeding, or any other official proceeding authorized by law, (2) any written
or oral statement or writing made in connection with an issue under
consideration or review by a legislative, executive, or judicial body, or any
other official proceeding authorized by law, (3) any written or oral statement
or writing made in a place open to the public or a public forum in connection
with an issue of public interest, or (4) any other conduct in furtherance of
the exercise of the constitutional right of petition or the constitutional
right of free speech in connection with a public issue or an issue of public
interest.” (CCP §425.16(e).)
 
The conduct
complained here includes intentional infliction of emotional distress, unfair
business practices, elder abuse, and civil harassment. Plaintiff alleges Defendants’
conduct was extreme and outrageous when Defendants made defamatory statements
about an alleged extra-marital affair and statements regarding Plaintiff’s
purported embezzlement from her employer. (5AC ¶30.) Moreover, Defendants have
repeatedly harassed and threatened Monteleone in an attempt to extort him and
Plaintiff into “walking away” from the dissolution proceeding pending between Plaintiff
and Luis Ruano. (5AC ¶31.) Plaintiff further alleges Defendants engaged in
unfair business practices when Defendant Luis Ruano II engaged in the
unauthorized practice of law at the direction of and/or with the consent/ratification
of Julie Goldberg and/or Goldberg & Associates, including providing
arbitration agreements, advising on wage and hour compliance, and advising on a
legal settlement. (5AC ¶¶3, 41.) As for Plaintiff’s elder abuse claim, Plaintiff
alleges Defendants took personal property and money belonging to Monteleone and
again, have repeatedly harassed and threatened Monteleone. (5AC ¶50.) Lastly,
Plaintiff’s civil harassment claim is also based on Defendants’ repeated harassment
and threatening Plaintiffs in an attempt to extort into “walking away” from the
dissolution proceeding pending between Plaintiff and Luis Ruano. (5AC ¶56.) 
 
Defendants
argue these allegations all involve Robert rendering legal services on behalf
of attorney Goldberg as well as Luis and Robert contacting Laura’s father to
try to settle the divorce proceeding between Luis and Laura and encouraging the
parties to end all litigation and “walk away.” Accordingly, Defendants contend
numerous cases have held that the anti- SLAPP statute protects lawyers sued for
litigation-related speech and activity. (See Rusheen v. Cohen (2006) 37
Cal.4th 1048, 1056.) Defendants further argue Plaintiffs’ causes of action for
IIED, elder abuse and civil harassment are based on telephone calls Luis made
to Thomas to settle the divorce, which is protected activity. (See Briggs v.
Eden Council for Hope & Opportunity (1999) 19 Cal.4th 1106, 1115.) 
 
The court
finds Plaintiff’s allegations regarding Defendants’ unauthorized practice of
law, which forms the basis of the Fifth Cause of Action for Unlawful Business
Practices, do not amount to free speech as the suit arises from the Defendant’s
private conduct, not from its exercise of free speech. (See Linsco/Private
Ledger, Inc. v. Investors Arbitration Services, Inc. (1996) 50 Cal.App.4th
1633, 1638.) The allegations do not arise from “qualifying acts” as discussed
in Rusheen. In Rusheen, the court observed any ‘act’ “includes
communicative conduct such as the filing, funding, and prosecution of a civil
action” and “qualifying acts committed by attorneys in representing clients in
litigation. [Citations.]” (Rusheen, supra, 37 Cal.4th at p.
1054.) Here, the allegations are Robert engaged in the unauthorized practice of
law by practicing law before he was an attorney.  These do not qualify as protected free speech
under anti-SLAPP statute.   The request
to strike the 5th Cause of Action is denied.   
 
The other
allegations are more difficult to describe. 
The claim for Elder Abuse is brought by plaintiff Montelone only against
all defendants.  It is based on the
allegations that defendants took Montelone’s real property and have harassed
and threatened him in an attempt to get him and plaintiff to “walk away” from
the dissolution action.   The moving
party would have the court conclude that all of these acts are taken in the
course of settlement discussions or as part of the ordinary course of
litigation.  The court disagrees.  As alleged, Montelone claims he is being
threatened, harassed and coerced in order to get plaintiff to drop her
lawsuit.  “The anti-SLAPP statute does
not protect speech that is not protected by the First Amendment or the
California Constitution. Thus, because intentional threats of bodily harm by
defendant are not constitutionally protected, a complaint based on such threats
is not subject to an anti-SLAPP motion. [D.C. v. R.R. (2010) 182 CA4th 1190,
1224-1225, 106 CR3d 399, 424-425—complaint alleged “cyberbullying” (Internet
postings)]” (E. Actions Not Subject to Anti-Slapp Statute, Cal. Prac. Guide
Civ. Pro. Before Trial Ch. 7(II)-E.)   Further,
the allegation that they stole Montelon’s real property cannot be viewed as
protected speech for purpose of an anti-SLAPP motion.   The request to strike the Sixth Cause of
Action is denied.  
 
The Seventh Cause
of Action for Civil Harassment is based on allegations that defendants have
harassed plaintiff by making threats of physical and psychological harm with an
intent to get her to drop her family law proceedings.   Threats of physical harm are not protected
speech and so do not qualify for protection under the anti-SLAPP statute.   Although these allegations are admittedly
extremely vague and conclusory, the court cannot categorically describe them as
statements made in settlement discussions or as part of an effort to serve
papers on plaintiff, as the moving party would like to have the court view them.  The court denies the motion to strike the
Seventh Cause of Action. 
 
As for the
Fourth Cause of Action for IIED, that claim is partially based on threats
directed at Monelone, which also form the basis of his Elder Abuse claim.  As explained above, that speech is not protected
under the anti-SLAPP statute.   The
remainder of the claim is based on an allegation that Ms. Goldberg defamed Ms.
Ruana by claiming that she was involved in an extra-marital affair and that she
had embezzled money from her employer.  The
court sees no argument or evidence that would force it to conclude that these
statements were made as part of filings in this or any other legal proceeding,
or as part of settlement discussions. The court therefore cannot conclude that
these statements are protected speech because made “before a legislative,
executive, or judicial proceeding, or any other official proceeding authorized
by law,  . . . .  [or] writing made in connection with an issue
under consideration or review by a legislative, executive, or judicial body, or
any other official proceeding authorized by law, . .. or oral statement . . . made
in a place open to the public or a public forum in connection with an issue of
public interest, or . . . any other conduct in furtherance of the exercise of
the constitutional right of petition or the constitutional right of free speech
in connection with a public issue or an issue of public interest.”
 
Accordingly,
the special motion to strike is denied.  
 
 


