 Case Number:  22VECV02514    Hearing Date:   March 11, 2024    Dept:  W BRYAN GUINO v.
AMERICAN HONDA MOTOR CO., INC.
 
PLAINTIFF’S MOTION TO COMPEL FURTHER
RESPONSES TO SPECIAL INTERROGATORIES FROM DEFENDANT AMERICAN HONDA MOTOR CO.,
INC., AND REQUEST FOR SANCTIONS
 
Date of Hearing:        March
11, 2024                                 Trial
Date:       None Set.
Department:              W                                                        Case No.:        22VECV02514
 
Moving Party:            Plaintiff Bryan Guino
Responding Party:     Defendant
American Honda Motor Co., Inc.  
Meet and Confer:      Yes. (Zamudio Decl. ¶¶5-10.) 
 
BACKGROUND
 
This is a lemon law action which arises
from Plaintiff’s lease of a 2020 Honda Accord. On December 21, 2022, Plaintiff
filed a complaint against Defendant American Honda Motor Co. asserting causes
of action for Violation of Song-Beverly Act and Fraudulent Inducement –
Concealment. Plaintiff alleges their vehicle had a sensing defect, which
Defendant knew about and concealed. 
 
Plaintiff filed a first amended
complaint on April 17, 2023. 
 
[Tentative] Ruling
 
Plaintiff’s Motion to Compel Further
Responses to Special Interrogatories from Defendant American Honda Motor Co.,
Inc. is GRANTED, in part.
 
DISCUSSION
 
Plaintiff moves the court for an order
compelling further responses to Plaintiff’s First Set of Special
Interrogatories and for monetary sanctions in the amount of $1,830.00 against Defendant
American Honda Motor Co., Inc. and its attorneys of record, Bowman and Brooke
LLP. Plaintiff makes the motion on the grounds Defendant American Honda has not
provided Code-compliant responses to Plaintiff’s Special Interrogatories Nos.
14 and 54-55 pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 2030.300 subdivision
(e) and 2023.030 subdivision (g).
 
“On receipt of a response to
interrogatories, the propounding party may move for an order compelling a
further response if the propounding party deems that any of the following
apply: (1) An answer to a particular interrogatory is evasive or incomplete. (2)
An exercise of the option to produce documents under Section 2030.230 is
unwarranted or the required specification of those documents is inadequate. (3)
An objection to an interrogatory is without merit or too general.”¿ (CCP §
2030.300(a).) “A motion under subdivision (a) [of CCP § 2030.300] shall be
accompanied by a meet and confer declaration under Section 2016.040.”¿ (CCP §
2030.300(b).)¿ In addition, a separate statement is required.¿ (CRC Rule
3.1345(a)(2).)
 
Plaintiff argues Special Interrogatory
Nos. 14 and 54-55 seek information relevant to Plaintiff’s claims.
Specifically, the information sought as to SROG No. 14 is relevant to proving whether
a civil penalty is warranted because it would tend to show whether AHM made its
determination not to repurchase Plaintiff’s vehicle in good faith. Moreover, with
regard to SROGs Nos. 54-55, the information sought in them is directly relevant
and admissible, as they all seek information relating to the Honda Sensing system
equipped in the Subject Vehicle that will help Plaintiffs better understand how
the Honda Sensing system works, and in turn, how it was defective. Plaintiff
further argues AHM’s objections on the basis that the interrogatories at issue
are vague, ambiguous, and overly broad are without merit. 
 
In opposition, AHM argues their
response to SROG 14 referred to documents pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure
section 2030.230 (the repair orders) and is arguably not required to summarize same.
However, in the spirit of cooperation AHM is willing to provide a brief
explanation why the repair orders clearly demonstrate Plaintiff’s vehicle does
not qualify for repurchase so this request is moot. As for SROGS Nos. 54 and
55, AHM argues it is undisputed that AHM is a distributor and was not involved
in the design or manufacture of the vehicle or the Sensing System. It is
improper to ask AHM for documents that are created, controlled and maintained
by other entities as a back door to obtain proprietary information from third
parties that are not parties to this litigation.
 
The court finds Plaintiff has provided
sufficient cause for further discovery responses to SROGS Nos. 54 and 55. Both
ask AHM to identify software specifications, including any modification
thereto, for the Honda Sensing system(s) for the Honda Accord from 2022 to
present. Responses to these requests may reasonably lead to the discovery of
information as to AHM’s willful violation claim and fraudulent concealment
claim. As noted by Plaintiff, if there was a flaw in the overall manufacturing
process, or installation into Plaintiff’s Subject Vehicle, AHM’s knowledge of
this widespread problem, and failure to act despite this knowledge would
warrant a civil penalty. However, the court agrees the parties need to identify
what is meant by “HONDA SENSING” system. AHM maintains it is limited to the Collision
Mitigation Braking System (CMBS), which appears reasonable. Moreover, the
requests should be limited to the year of Plaintiff’s vehicle. If AHM does not
have these documents or information, AHM must state so. 
 
Accordingly, Plaintiff’s Motion to
Compel Further Responses to Special Interrogatories from Defendant American
Honda Motor Co., Inc. is GRANTED, in part. 
 
Sanctions
 
Plaintiff requests $1,830.00 in
monetary sanctions due to AHM’s failure to provide a code-compliant response to
Plaintiff’s interrogatories, Plaintiff has been forced to expend time
attempting to meet and confer and were ultimately forced to prepare this motion.

 
Code of Civil Procedure section
2030.300(d) provides that for mandatory monetary sanctions “against any party,
person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel a
further response to interrogatories, unless it finds that the one subject to
the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other circumstances
make the imposition of the sanction unjust.” 
(CCP § 2030.300(d).)   
 
The court,
finding their being substantial justification on both sides, denies the request
for sanctions. 
 