 Case Number:  23SMCV05106    Hearing Date:   July 15, 2024    Dept:  P Tentative Ruling 
Browner v. 1118 17th
St. Homeowners Association, et al. Case No. 23SMCV05106 
Hearing Date: June
15, 2024
Defendant’s Demurrer
to Plaintiff’s Complaint; Motion to Strike; and Motion to Disqualify Counsel
 
Plaintiff alleges defendants
failed to pay for repair costs associated with water damage in the common area of
a condominium complex. Defendants demur to various causes of action, arguing
failure to state a claim and lacks of standing as a former, not present, member
of the HOA. Defendants also move to strike punitive damages and to disqualify Browner’s
counsel on the grounds that his prior representation of both Browner and the
HOA is substantially related to this action.
 
Demurrer
This order does not address the causes of action for
unjust enrichment and intentional infliction of emotional distress, as plaintiff
concedes those causes of action. 
1.      First
Cause of Action – Breach of Covenants, Conditions, and Restrictions
Defendants argue Browner lacks standing and fails to
state a claim. To establish a cause of action for breach of covenants,
conditions, and restrictions, plaintiff must establish 1) existence of a
CC&R; 2) the party against whom enforcement is sought had notice or knowledge
of the CC&Rs.; 3) breach of the CC&R 4) the right to enforce the
CC&R; 5) damages. Cutujian v. Benedict Hills Estates Ass’n. (1996)
41 Cal.App.4th 1379. 
The complaint alleges the following: Browner owned the
condo and purchased subject to the CC&Rs. Compl. ¶143. Defendants knew the
CC&Rs required the HOA to pay for claimed repairs. Id. ¶27.
Defendants had notice of the CC&R because the development was governed by
the CC&Rs, which created duties and obligations, including maintaining the
pipes. Id. ¶¶144, 146-148. Defendants breached by failing to maintain
the pipes, causing Browner to suffer damages. Id. ¶¶149-152.
Browner argues she has standing because she sustained damages,
and the HOA’s obligation to pay for repairs accrued while she owned the condo. Defendants
do not cite authority that her right was extinguished when she sold the condo.
Defendant's reliance on Farber v. Bay View Terrace Homeowners Ass’n.
(2006) 141 Cal.App.4th 1007, 1011 is misplaced. The court held “[one] who no
longer owns land in a development subject to reciprocal restrictions cannot
enforce them, absent showing the original covenanting parties intended to allow
enforcement by one who is not a landowner.” However, Faber is
distinguishable because the court did not address the issue of accrual when
damages occurred while a party had an interest in the land. 
Barring authority to the contrary, Browner’s right to
enforce the covenant was not extinguished with the sale of the condo. Thus, at
the pleadings stage, this is enough to have a cause of action for breach of
covenants, conditions, and restrictions.
2.      Breach
of Fiduciary Duty 
“The elements of a cause of action for breach of
fiduciary duty are the existence of a fiduciary relationship, breach of
fiduciary duty, and damages.” Oasis West Realty, LLC v. Goldman (2011)
51 Cal.4th 811, 820. 
The complaint alleges defendants had a fiduciary duty
to the members of the HOA and were required to act with good faith, loyalty,
and care as board members. Compl. ¶16. Defendants allegedly breached by
violating the business judgment rule when they unreasonably, in bad faith, and
engaging in self-dealing, refused to pay the repair cost for the pipes located
in the common spaces. Id. ¶¶ 49-59.
The complaint sufficiently alleges duty, breach via not
paying for the repair, and damages. This is enough to state a cause for action
at the pleadings stage. 
3.      Third
Cause of Action – Violation of Davis Stirling Common Interest Development Act
(Civil Code ¶¶4000-6150) 
Civil Code §4775(a)(1) provides “Except as provided in
paragraph (3), unless otherwise provided in the declaration of a common
interest development, the association is responsible for repairing, replacing,
and maintaining the common area.” 
The complaint alleges defendants failed to repair and
maintain the pipes in the common area. This is enough to have a cause for
action at the pleadings stage.
4.      Sixth
Cause of Action – Declaratory relief 
“To qualify for
declaratory relief, a party would have to demonstrate its action presented two
essential elements: (1) a proper subject of declaratory relief, and (2) an
actual controversy involving justiciable questions relating to the party’s
rights or obligations.” Jolley v. Chase
Home Finance, LLC (2013) 213 Cal.App.4th 872, 909, quotation marks and
brackets omitted. “‘Strictly speaking, a demurrer is a procedurally
inappropriate method for disposing of a complaint for declaratory relief. As
Witkin observes: “The complaint is sufficient if it shows an actual
controversy; it need not show that plaintiff is in the right.” 5 Witkin, Cal.
Procedure, (4th ed. 1997) Pleading § 831, pp. 288–289.’” Lockheed Martin
Corp. v. Continental Ins. Co. (2005) 134 Cal.App.4th 187, 221, disapproved
of on another ground by State of California v. Allstate Ins. Co. (2009)
45 Cal.4th 1008, 1036, fn. 11.
There is an actual controversy alleged. 
OVERRULED. Defendants to file responsive pleadings
within 10 days. 
Motion to Strike Punitive Damages
Defendants argue punitive damages are not pled with
requisite specificity.  
“In order to survive a motion to strike an allegation
of punitive damages, the ultimate facts showing an entitlement to such relief
must be pled by a plaintiff.” Clauson v. Superior Court (1998) 67
Cal.App.4th 1253, 1255. Civ. Code §3294 authorizes punitive damages upon a
showing of malice, fraud, or oppression. Malice is defined as either “conduct
which is intended by the defendant to cause injury to the plaintiff,” or
“despicable conduct which is carried on by the defendant with a willful and
conscious disregard of the rights or safety of others.” Civ. Code, §
3294(c)(1). “Despicable conduct is conduct which is so vile, base,
contemptible, miserable, wretched or loathsome that it would be looked down
upon and despised by ordinary decent people.” Mock v. Michigan Millers
Mutual Ins. Co. (1992) 4 Cal. App. 4th 306, 331. 
The complaint alleges defendants chose not to pay for
the requested repairs and damages, even though they knew it was the HOA's
responsibility to fix and maintain the pipes. Compl ¶10. It alleges “Defendants
engaged in a pattern of abusive conduct intended to deprive Plaintiff of her
rights as a member of the condominium association.” Id. ¶11. This
included expressing animosity to Browner by referring to her as greedy, stupid,
and treasonous. Id. ¶12. 
The complaint alleges on October 27, 2021, Khona sent
an email to plaintiff, copied to several others, reading: “Are you stupid?
We’ve indemnified them from your crazy extortion of money issues. So I have all
the time in the world to deal with you and your treasonous ways.” Id. ¶
125. 
This is sufficient to allege malice in support of
punitive damages. DENIED. 
Motion to Disqualify Counsel
“‘A trial court’s authority to disqualify an attorney
derives from the power inherent in every court ‘[t]o control in furtherance of
justice, the conduct of its ministerial officers, and of all other persons in
any manner connected with a judicial proceeding before it, in every matter
pertaining thereto.’’” Ontiveros v. Constable (2016) 245 Cal.App.4th
686, 694, quoting People ex rel. Dept. of Corporations v. SpeeDee Oil Change
Systems, Inc. (1999) 20 Cal.4th 1135, 1145 (quoting Code Civ. Proc.,
§128(a)(5)). “‘[D]isqualification motions involve a conflict between the
clients’ right to counsel of their choice and the need to maintain ethical
standards of professional responsibility.’” Id. at 694-95. “The
paramount concern must be to preserve public trust in the scrupulous
administration of justice and the integrity of the bar.” Id. at 695. 
In ruling on a motion to disqualify, the court should
weigh: (1) the party's right to counsel of choice; (2) the attorney's interest
in representing a client; (3) the financial burden on a client of change of
counsel; (4) any tactical abuse underlying a disqualification motion; and (5)
the principal that fair resolution of disputes requires vigorous representation
of parties by independent counsel. Mills Land & Water Co. v. Golden West
Refining Co. (1986) 186 Cal.App.3d 116, 126. Whether an attorney should be
disqualified is a matter addressed to the sound discretion of the trial court. Henriksen
v. Great American Savings & Loan (1992) 11 Cal.App.4th 109, 113.
Kurkhill defended the underlying case on behalf of
both Browner and the HOA against third party, Structa, for alleged unpaid
services relating to repair work on Browner’s condo. Marks decl. ¶ 4; Exh B, C.
Legal filings also establish Kurkhill’s representation of both the HOA and
Browner. Id.; Exh D.
Brower argues the claims are not related, as damage alleged
from Structa in her cross-complaint do not reference cracked drainage pipes.
Browner argues defendants conflate the issues because both cases contain the
same parties and the same property.
“[W]here a former client seeks to have a previous attorney disqualified
from serving as counsel to a successive client in litigation adverse to the
interests of the first client, the governing test requires that the client
demonstrate a ‘substantial relationship’ between the subjects of the
antecedent and current representations.” Flatt v. Superior
Court (1994) 9 Cal.4th 275, 283 [emphasis in original]. “Where the
requisite substantial relationship between the subjects of the prior and the
current representations can be demonstrated, access to confidential information
by the attorney in the course of the first representation (relevant, by
definition, to the second representation) is presumed and
disqualification of the attorney’s representation of the second client is
mandatory; indeed, the disqualification extends vicariously to the entire
firm.” Id. [emphasis in original]. “The former client need not
establish that the attorney actually possesses confidential information.” In
re Marriage of Zimmerman, supra, 16 Cal.App.4th at 563. “It is the
possibility of the breach of confidence, not the fact of an actual breach that
triggers disqualification.” Id. 
“[A] ‘substantial relationship’ exists whenever the ‘subjects’ of the
prior and the current representations are linked in some rational manner.” Jessen
v. Hartford Casualty Ins. Co. (2003) 111 Cal.App.4th 698, 711 citing Flatt, supra, 9 Cal.4th
at 283. The “subject” of a representation includes “information material to the
evaluation, prosecution, settlement or accomplishment of the litigation or
transaction given its specific legal and factual issues.” Id. at
712-13. 
“[S]uccessive representations will be ‘substantially related’ when the
evidence before the trial court supports a rational conclusion that information
material to the evaluation, prosecution, settlement or accomplishment of the
former representation given its factual and legal issues is also material to
the evaluation, prosecution, settlement or accomplishment of the current
representation given its factual and legal issues.” Id. at 713. 
The lawsuits are substantially related as they involve
the same parties and property, and Brower claims damages to the same
condominium via the same mechanism. Mark’s declaration indicates Kurkhill’s
previous representation may have allowed him to gain insight into HOA’s defense
strategies, including information relevant to potential settlement or
litigation strategies. 
Given the instant case stems from the water damage to
the subject property, which ultimately led to discovery of the cracked pipes,
the information gained could be material to the evaluation, litigation, and
settlement of the instant action. Kurkhill’s representation in this matter is
substantially related to his representation of HOA in the previous matter. There
is a presumption Kurkhill had access to confidential information and is
disqualified. GRANTED. 