  Case Number:  23AHCV00452    Hearing Date:   March 22, 2024    Dept:  P  
 
 
 
 
 
 
SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES
NORTHEAST DISTRICT
 



Michael Mojaver,
 
                                            Plaintiff,
vs.
Dana Roberts and CW Driver, LLC,
 
 
                                           Defendants.


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
  )
)


Case No.: 23AHCV00452
 
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER GRANTING DEFENDANTS’ PETITION TO CONFIRM ARBITRATION AWARD 
 
Date:   March
  22, 2024
Time:  8:30 a.m.
Dept.:  P



 
 
 
I.        INTRODUCTION 
This
is an action involving a contractual dispute. Plaintiff Michael Mojaver
(Mojaver) alleges that he entered into a contract with Defendants Dana Roberts
and CW Driver, LLC (collectively Defendants), where he agreed to do some
construction work and Defendants agreed to pay for the construction work. The
construction was a Public Works project at Santa Monica Community College
District’s AET Campus & Parking Structure A located at 1660 Stewart Street,
Santa Monica, CA 90404. The five causes of action set forth in the Complaint allege:
(1) Breach of Contract, (2) Promissory Estoppel, (3) Unjust Enrichment, (4)
Quantum Meruit, and (5) Open Book Account. The complaint also alleges that
Mojaver has tried twice to file arbitration claims, but that American
Arbitration Association (AAA) was unable to provide a neutral arbitrator.
          Plaintiff voluntarily dismissed the first arbitration. As
to the second arbitration, the Court granted a motion to stay the court case
pending the outcome of the second arbitration. (6/29/23 Minute Order, 11/9/23 Notice
of Ruling.) 
The
arbitration took place in October of 2023. The arbitrator issued her final
award on January 4, 2024, ruling that nothing was due to either party (on
either Plaintiff’s claim or Defendants’ counterclaim). 
Now
before the Court is Defendants’ unopposed petition to confirm the arbitration
award. As the petition is timely and all procedural requirements are met, it is
granted.    
 
          II. REQUEST FOR JUDICIAL NOTICE
          Defendants’ request for judicial notice
          Defendants request that the Court take judicial notice of
the following: (17) Plaintiff Michael Mojaver’s 3/2/23 Complaint in this
action, including the narrative attachment labeled “Complaint for Damage”; (18)
Defendants’ 6/1/23 Motion for Stay of Proceedings; (19) Defendants’ 6/23/23 Reply
To Plaintiff’s Response to Motion to Stay Action Pending Completion of
Arbitration, Memorandum Of Points And Authorities, Declaration of Kerry D.
Christoph and (20) Plaintiff Michael Mojaver’s 6/27/23 Response to Defendant’s
Rebuttal Against Plaintiff’s Respond to Motion to Stay.
          Though it is not necessary to take judicial notice of
papers already in the court file, the requests are granted.  (See Evid. Code, § 452, subd. (d).) (Evid.
Code § 453; Scott v. JP Morgan Chase Bank, N.A. (2013) 214 Cal.App.4th
743, 754-755.)
          Accordingly, judicial notice is taken of Exhs. 17-20. 
 
 
III.     LEGAL
STANDARD
          Code Civ. Proc. § 1288 et seq. provides that a petition to
confirm an arbitration award must be served and filed within 4 years after the
date of service of a signed copy of the award on petitioner. No petition may be
filed until at least 10 days after service of the signed copy of the award on
petition. (CCP § 1288.4.)
          Section 1286 requires courts to confirm an award unless a
competing petition identifies grounds to correct or vacate the award: “If a
petition or response under this chapter is duly served and filed, the court shall
confirm the award as made, whether rendered in this state or another state,
unless in accordance with this chapter it corrects the award and confirms it as
corrected, vacates the award or dismisses the proceeding.” (Bolding added.)
          If an award is confirmed, “Judgment shall be entered in
conformity therewith.” (CCP § 1287.4.)
 
IV      DISCUSSION
          Defendants have timely filed this petition to confirm the
arbitration award more than 10 days after, and fewer than 4 years from, the
date a signed copy of the order on the award was served. Per the petition, the signed
award was served on January 5, 2024. (Petition p. 2 Item 9.) Defendants attach
a copy of the arbitration agreement, the name of the arbitrator and the
arbitrator’s award. (Attachment 4(b) to Petition-Arbitration Agreement;
Petition p. 2 Item 6- Arbitrator’s name; Attachment 8(c) to Petition-
Arbitrator’s Award.)
Plaintiff
has been provided with notice of this petition; but no opposition has been
filed. Plaintiff has also not filed a motion to correct or to vacate the
arbitration award. 
 
 
 
 
V.       ORDER
          The Petition to confirm arbitration award is granted. Defendants
are ordered to provide notice of this order, and to lodge and serve an
appropriate proposed Judgment within 10 days. 
 
 
 
Dated:                                                              _______________________________
                                                                              MARGARET L. OLDENDORF
                                                                       JUDGE
OF THE SUPERIOR COURT