 Case Number:  22STCV20556    Hearing Date:   October 4, 2024    Dept:  56  
 
SUPERIOR
COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR
THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



CHAUNTAE DIXON, 
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
ECO SERVICES OPERATIONS CORP., et al.,
  
                                                                             
  
                        Defendants.                               


 


     
  CASE NO.:  22STCV20556
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER RE: 
MOTION FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT, OR IN THE
  ALTERNATIVE, SUMMARY ADJUDICATION
 
Date: October 4, 2024
Time: 8:30 a.m.
Dept. 56
 
 



 
MOVING PARTY: Defendant
ECO SERVICES OPERATIONS CORP. (“Defendant”)
 
RESPONDING PARTY: Plaintiff
CHAUNTAE DIXON (“Plaintiff”)
 
            The Court has considered the moving,
opposition and reply papers.  
 
BACKGROUND
This
case stems from an employment relationship between Plaintiff and Defendant.  Plaintiff began working in April 2019 as a Senior
Buyer in Defendant’s Procurement Department.  (Complaint, ¶ 8; Defendant’s Separate
Statement of Undisputed Material Facts [“DSS”] No. 7.)  Her employment with Defendant was terminated
in February 2022.  (DSS No. 43.)
 
On
June 23, 2022, Plaintiff filed a complaint (“Complaint”) asserting the
following causes of action: (1) Disability Discrimination (Gov. Code, § 12940 (a));
(2) Retaliation for Requesting Reasonable Accommodations (Gov. Code, §
12940(m)); (3) Unlawful Inquiry Regarding Physical Condition (Gov. Code, §
12940(f)); (4) Hostile Work Environment Based on Sex (Gov. Code, § 12940(j));
(5) Retaliation for Engaging in Protected Activity (Gov. Code, § 12940(h)); (6)
Retaliation in Violation of the California Family Rights Act (Gov. Code, § 12945.2);
and (7) Wrongful Termination in Violation of Public Policy.
             
            On April 26, 2024, Defendant filed
the instant Motion for Summary Judgment, or in the Alternative, Summary
Adjudication (the “Motion”).  Plaintiff
filed an opposition on July 10, 2024 and Defendant filed a late reply on
September 30, 2024, which the Court has exercised its discretion to consider.
            
EVIDENTIARY OBJECTIONS 
            The Court rules on Plaintiff’s objections to portions of declarations and evidence submitted
by Defendant as follows:
            Objections to Declaration
of Michele Ballard, Nos. 1-2: OVERRULED
            Objections to Declaration of Landry
Garcia, Nos. 3-13: OVERRULED
            Objections to Declaration of Alicia
Martin, Nos. 14-21: OVERRULED
Objections
to Declaration of Thomas Robert Rice, Nos. 22-28, 31: OVERRULED; Nos. 29-30
SUSTAINED (irrelevant)
The
Court OVERRULES the objections submitted with the Reply.
DISCUSSION
Legal Standard
The function of a motion for summary judgment or
adjudication is to allow a determination as to whether an opposing party cannot
show evidentiary support for a pleading or claim and to enable an order of
summary dismissal without the need for trial.  (Aguilar
v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 843.)  CCP Section 437c(c) “requires the trial judge
to grant summary judgment if all the evidence submitted, and ‘all inferences
reasonably deducible from the evidence’ and uncontradicted by other inferences
or evidence, show that there is no triable issue as to any material fact and
that the moving party is entitled to judgment as a matter of law.”  (Adler
v. Manor Healthcare Corp. (1992) 7 Cal.App.4th 1110, 1119.)  “The function of the pleadings in a motion
for summary judgment is to delimit the scope of the issues; the function of the
affidavits or declarations is to disclose whether there is any triable issue of
fact within the issues delimited by the pleadings.”  (Juge
v. County of Sacramento (1993) 12 Cal.App.4th 59, 67, citing FPI Development, Inc. v. Nakashima
(1991) 231 Cal. App. 3d 367, 381-382.)
 
As to each claim as framed by the complaint, the
defendant moving for summary judgment must satisfy the initial burden of proof
by presenting facts to negate an essential element, or to establish a defense.  (CCP § 437c(p)(2); Scalf v. D. B. Log Homes, Inc. (2005) 128 Cal.App.4th 1510, 1520.)  Courts “liberally construe the evidence in
support of the party opposing summary judgment and resolve doubts concerning
the evidence in favor of that party.”  (Dore v. Arnold Worldwide, Inc. (2006)
39 Cal.4th 384, 389.)
 
Once the defendant has met that burden, the burden
shifts to the plaintiff to show that a triable issue of one or more material
facts exists as to that cause of action or a defense thereto.  To establish a triable issue of material
fact, the party opposing the motion must produce substantial responsive
evidence.  (Sangster v. Paetkau (1998) 68 Cal.App.4th 151, 166.)
 
First Cause of Action: Disability Discrimination (Gov.
Code § 12940(a))
Government Code section 12940 provides that it is
unlawful for an employer to refuse to hire or employ a person; to discharge a
person from employment; or to discriminate against the person in compensation
or in terms, conditions, or privileges of employment on the basis of physical
disability and medical condition.  (Govt.
Code, § 12940(a).)  
 
In
order to successfully assert a claim for discrimination, Plaintiff must satisfy
the requirements of the three-step McDonnell Douglas test.  (Guz v. Bechtel Nat. Inc. (2000) 24
Cal.4th 317, 354-55.)  Generally, a prima facie case requires showing that
(1) plaintiff was a member of a protected class; (2) she was qualified for the
position she sought or was performing competently in the position she held; (3)
plaintiff suffered an adverse employment action, such as termination, demotion,
or denial of an available job; and (4) some other circumstance suggests
discriminatory motive.  (Id. at
355.) 
 
Once
a plaintiff has established a prima facie case, there is a “rebuttable” but
“legally mandatory” presumption of discrimination.  (Id. at 355.)  The burden then shifts to the defendant to
rebut the presumption by producing admissible evidence that the defendant’s
“action was taken for a legitimate, nondiscriminatory reason.”  (Id. at 355-356.) 
 
Finally,
if the defendant meets its burden, “the presumption of discrimination
disappears.”  (Id. at 356.)  The plaintiff must then show that the
defendant’s legitimate reason is merely pretext.  (Id.)  “Pretext may be inferred from the timing of
the discharge decision, the identity of the decision-maker, or by the
discharged employee's job performance before termination.”  (Hanson v. Lucky Stores, Inc. (1999) 74
Cal.App.4th 215, 224.)  “Pretext may
[also] be demonstrated by showing that the proffered reason had no basis in
fact, the proffered reason did not actually motivate the discharge, or, the
proffered reason was insufficient to motivate discharge.”  (Id.) 
 
“When
seeking summary judgment or summary adjudication in an employment
discrimination case, the burdens established by the McDonnell Douglas
framework are altered. The ‘employer, as the moving party, has the initial
burden to present admissible evidence showing either that one or more elements
of plaintiff's prima facie case is lacking or that the adverse employment
action was based upon legitimate, nondiscriminatory factors.’ [Citation.]” (Zamora
v. Security Industry Specialists, Inc. (2021) 71 Cal.App.5th 1, 32.)  “If the employer satisfies its initial
burden, it will be entitled to summary [adjudication] unless the plaintiff
produces admissible evidence which raises a triable issue of fact material to
the defendant's showing.”  (Zamora,
supra, 71 Cal.App.5th at 32.)  “ ‘A
plaintiff's burden is ... to produce evidence that, taken as a whole, permits a
rational inference that intentional discrimination was a substantial motivating
factor in the employer's actions toward the plaintiff.’ [Citation.]” (Zamora,
supra, 71 Cal.App.5th 1, 58.) 
 
Here, by way of background, Dixon told her supervisor,
Landry Garcia, on October 18, 2021, that she would need time off for a medical
procedure on November 16 and 17, 2021.  (DSS
No. 9; Declaration of Chauntae Dixon [“Dixon Decl.”], ¶ 14.)    On November
18, 2021, Plaintiff informed Garcia that she was requesting a leave of absence
through January 3, 2022 because the recovery from her medical procedure was taking
longer than anticipated.  (Dixon Decl., ¶¶
17-18; DSS No. 11).  Plaintiff was
approved for leave and, consistent with her physician’s recommendation, she
remained off work until January 2022. 
(DSS No. 17.)  The leave policies
and instructions for filing for short-term disability leave provided to Plaintiff
stated that, upon her release to return to work, Plaintiff would be “required to
attend a return-to-work examination by a health care provider designated by the
company.”  (DSS Nos. 14-16.)  Plaintiff asserts that she did not actually
receive the documents since those were mailed to her Long Beach, California
address while she was recovering from her surgery in Michigan.  Plaintiff states that Ms. Alicia Martin, the
company’s disability administrator, did not email her a copy of the policies
until after she returned from her leave, on January 6, 2022.  (Plaintiff’s Response to Defendant’s Separate
Statement [“PSS”] No. 14-15.) 
 
On January 4, 2022, Plaintiff returned to work.  (DSS No. 18.) 
On January 6, 2022, Garcia emailed Plaintiff telling her that she needed
to submit a doctor’s note and complete a return-to-work (“RTW”) physical
examination before she was allowed to work. 
(DSS No. 30.)
Robert Rice, the Regional Human Resources Manager, also sent Plaintiff a
copy of the RTW policy, told Plaintiff that she was required to complete the
RTW process, and that “the return-to-work (RTW) process is standard for all of
the plants.”  (DSS Nos. 31-32, 34.)  
 
Plaintiff initially agreed to the physical exam, but
later refused when she arrived at the facility and was asked to sign an “Employer
Services-Authorization for Disclosure of Protected Health Information (PHI)
HIPAA Release” (“HIPAA Release”) and was informed about the bloodwork
requirement.  (DSS Nos. 36-37; Dixon
Decl., ¶¶ 31,38.)  Rice told Plaintiff
that Defendant would consider her refusal to complete the RTW process a voluntary
resignation.  (DSS No. 42.)  Plaintiff did not complete the RTW process,
and her employment was terminated on February 28, 2022.  (DSS No. 43.)
 
In her opposition, Plaintiff argues that she was
terminated due to her disability, and asserts that the requirement for her to
undergo a physical examination and to release her medical history was illegal
and discriminatory, as the same was not required of non-disabled employees.  Defendant, on the other hand, asserts, through
Rice’s declaration, that “no other employee had been allowed to return to work
following a short term disability leave without participating in the return to
work process.”  (Declaration of Thomas
Robert Rice [“Rice Decl.”], ¶ 26; also, Declaration of Alicia Martin [“Martin
Decl.”], ¶¶ 12-13 [citing other employees who were required to undergo a return
to work physical upon returning from short-term disability leave].)  Defendant also articulated that the requirement
for employees returning from a disability leave to participate in the RTW
process is for safety reasons, given the facility’s operations which involve
processing toxic and highly flammable chemicals.  (DSS No. 6.) 
As such, employees are routinely trained on how to work safely in such
an environment and what to do in the event of an accident or spill, and that this
focus on safety included making sure that all employees returning from a
disability leave participate in the RTW process to make sure they are able to
resume their duties, even those who were not directly engaged in the actual
manufacturing process.  (DSS No. 34.)
 
Defendant sufficiently demonstrated that the
physical examination and HIPAA release are uniformly required, job-related, and
consistent with business necessity.  The
Court thus finds that requiring these as part of a standard company policy for
employees returning from medical leave does not violate FEHA.  Defendant, therefore, carried its burden by
demonstrating that its reason for terminating Plaintiff’s employment (refusal
to participate in the RTW process) was legitimate and nondiscriminatory.  In opposing the Motion, Plaintiff, failed to
raise a triable issue of material fact as to Defendant’s prima facie showing; that
is, Plaintiff filed to show that Defendant’s reason was pretextual.
 
Accordingly, Plaintiff’s first cause of action
fails.
 
Second Cause of Action: Retaliation for Requesting
Reasonable Accommodations (Gov. Code § 12940(m))
            An employer also may not
retaliate or otherwise discriminate against a person for requesting
accommodation, regardless of whether the request was granted.  (Gov. Code, § 12940(m)(2); Moore v.
Regents of University of California (2016) 248 Cal.App.4th 216, 245-47.)
 
            For the same reasons enunciated under the discussion on the first cause
of action, this cause of action similarly fails.  Plaintiff cannot establish that the
requirement for her to participate in the RTW process was retaliatory, as such
requirement was for legitimate and nondiscriminatory business reasons.
            
Third Cause of Action: Unlawful Inquiry Regarding
Physical Condition (Gov. Code § 12940(f))
Section 12940(f) provides as follows:
 
(1) Except as provided in paragraph (2), for
any employer or employment agency to require any medical or psychological
examination of an employee, to make any medical or psychological inquiry of an
employee, to make any inquiry whether an employee has a mental disability,
physical disability, or medical condition, or to make any inquiry regarding the
nature or severity of a physical disability, mental disability, or medical
condition.
 
(2) Notwithstanding paragraph (1), an employer
or employment agency may require any examinations or inquiries that it can show
to be job related and consistent with business necessity. An employer or
employment agency may conduct voluntary medical examinations, including
voluntary medical histories, which are part of an employee health program
available to employees at that worksite.
 
Thus, FEHA does not provide for a blanket
prohibition on requiring examinations or inquiries, and the same is allowed if
it can be shown that the requirement is “job related and consistent with
business necessity.”  As discussed above,
Defendant met those requirements, given that toxic and flammable chemicals are processed
in the facility.
 
Fourth Cause of Action: Hostile Work Environment Based
on Sex (Gov. Code § 12940(j))
To state a claim of harassment under FEHA, Plaintiff
must show “(1) she is a member of a protected class; (2) she was subjected to
unwelcome harassment; (3) the harassment was based on her protected status; (4)
the harassment unreasonably interfered with her work performance by creating an
intimidating, hostile, or offensive work environment; and (5) defendants are
liable for the harassment.”  (Galvan
v. Dameron Hosp. Assn. (2019) 37 Cal.App.5th 549, 563.)
 
            Plaintiff alleges that
she was subjected to severe and pervasive “harassing conduct” based on her sex.
 (Complaint ¶¶ 67-68.)  In her responses to written discovery, Plaintiff
identified the following in support of this claim:
•               
Two comments made by Ana Kelly-Stephen (assistant of
Steve Caro (“Caro”), the plant manager) to Plaintiff that she should have
children so that they do not develop Down’s Syndrome or have special needs;
•               
Caro questioned Plaintiff as to why she reported Kelly-Stephen’s
comment to HR, and attempted to persuade her to withdraw her report;
•               
Plaintiff’s claim that Caro “grabbed his penis and
testicles and shook them” in front of her subordinate, Vanessa Brannock
(“Brannock”); and
•               
Plaintiff’s claim that Caro entered Plaintiff’s
office after he learned of Plaintiff’s support of Brannock, which made Dixon
uncomfortable, believing he was trying to intimidate her.  Dixon also alleged that he commented that he
was bigger than her, which Dixon viewed as a threat.  (Miller Decl., Ex. B [Pl. Supplemental Resp.
to Eco Services Form Interrogatories – Employment Law] at No. 203.1.)
 
In this case, the harassment complained of was not sufficiently severe or
pervasive to alter the conditions of Plaintiff’s employment and create a
hostile work environment within the meaning of the California Fair Employment
and Housing Act (Gov. Code, § 12900 et seq.). 
Of note, Plaintiff did not directly observe or experience the alleged
harassing incident where Caro allegedly “grabbed his penis and testicles and shook
them” in front of another coworker, Brannock, since Plaintiff was standing
behind Caro when this allegedly occurred. 
(DSS No 54.)  Notably, Ms.
Brannock states in her declaration that she never complained to HR about this
incident as this incident never occurred.  (DSS 55.) 

 
Whether the sexual conduct complained of is sufficiently pervasive to
create a hostile or offensive work environment so as to constitute sexual
harassment must be determined from the totality of the circumstances.  (Herberg v. California Inst. of the Arts
(2002) 101 Cal. App. 4th 142.) Although a single incident of harassment may be
sufficient to establish an employer's liability, such an incident must be
severe in the extreme and generally must include either physical violence or
the threat thereof.  (Herberg, supra.)  
 
In this case, the Court does not find, given the totality of
circumstances, that the harassing conduct complained of is sufficiently severe
or pervasive.  Thus, Plaintiff’s claim
under this cause of action fails.
 
Fifth Cause of Action: Retaliation for Engaging in
Protected Activity (Gov. Code § 12940(h))
To establish retaliation under FEHA, a plaintiff
must show that “(1) he or she engaged in a ‘protected activity,’ (2) the
employer subjected the employee to an adverse employment action, and (3) a
causal link existed between the protected activity and the employer’s action.”
(Yanowitz v. L’Oreal USA, Inc. (2005)
36 Cal.4th 1028, 1042; Nealy v. City of
Santa Monica (2015) 234 Cal.App.4th 359, 380.)  A retaliation claim can be
brought by an employee who has complained of conduct reasonably believed to be
discriminatory. (Id. at 1043; see
also Kelley v. Conco Companies (2011)
196 Cal.App.4th 191, 209-10.) “[A]lthough an adverse employment action must
materially affect the terms, conditions, or privileges of employment to be
actionable, the determination of whether a particular action or course of
conduct rises to the level of actionable conduct should take into account the
unique circumstances of the affected employee as well as the workplace context
of the claim.” (Yanowitz, supra, 36
Cal.4th at 1052.) 
 
As discussed
above under the first cause of action, Defendant had a legitimate,
non-retaliatory reason to terminate Plaintiff’s employment for refusing to participate
in the RTW process.  Thus, this claim
fails as Plaintiff cannot establish that a causal link existed between Plaintiff’s
exercise of a protected activity and the Defendant’s action.
 
Sixth Cause of Action: Retaliation in Violation of the
California Family Rights Act (Gov. Code § 12945.2)
“The elements of a cause of action for retaliation
in violation of CFRA are: (1) the defendant was an employer covered by CFRA;
(2) the plaintiff was an employee eligible to take CFRA leave; (3) the plaintiff
exercised her right to take leave for a qualifying CFRA purpose; and (4) the
plaintiff suffered an adverse employment action, such as termination, fine, or
suspension, because of her exercise of her right to CFRA leave.”  (Moore v. Regents of Univ. of California
(2016) 248 Cal.App.4th 216, 248.)
 
            Similarly, this claim
fails as Defendant has demonstrated Plaintiff’s refusal to participate in the
RTW process as the reason for termination of Plaintiff’s employment, and not because
she took leave. 
 
Seventh Cause of Action: Wrongful Termination in
Violation of Public Policy
“The elements of a claim for wrongful discharge in
violation of public policy are (1) an employer-employee relationship, (2) the
employer terminated the plaintiff’s employment, (3) the termination was
substantially motivated by a violation of public policy, and (4) the discharge
caused the plaintiff harm.”  (Nosal-Tabor
v. Sharp Chula Vista Medical Center (2015) 239 Cal.App.4th 1224, 1234-35
[internal quotations omitted].)  
 
Since there are no FEHA violations and Plaintiff’s
FEHA claims fail, her claim for wrongful termination in violation of public
policy likewise fails.  (Hanson, supra, at 229 (finding that plaintiff’s claim for wrongful
termination in violation of public policy fails because plaintiff’s FEHA claim
fails).)
 
Punitive Damages
In
order to state a prima facie claim for punitive damages, a complaint must set
forth the elements as stated in the general punitive damage statute, Civil Code
section 3294.  (College Hospital, Inc.
v. Superior Court (1994) 8 Cal.4th 704, 721.)¿ These statutory elements
include allegations that the defendant has been guilty of oppression, fraud or
malice.  (Civ. Code, § 3294, subd. (a).)¿

 
“‘Malice’
is defined in the statute as conduct “intended by the defendant to cause injury
to plaintiff, or despicable conduct that is carried on by the defendant with a
willful and conscious disregard for the rights or safety of others.”  (Civ.Code, § 3294, subd. (c)(1); College
Hospital, supra, 8 Cal.4th at p . 725.) “‘Oppression’ means despicable
conduct that subjects a person to cruel and unjust hardship in conscious
disregard of that person's rights.”  (Civ.Code,
§ 3294 subd. (c)(2).) “‘Fraud’ is “an intentional misrepresentation, deceit, or
concealment of a material fact known to the defendant with the intention on the
part of the defendant of thereby depriving a person of property or legal rights
or otherwise causing injury.”  (Civ.Code,
§ 3294, subd. (c)(3).)  (Turman v.
Turning Point Of Central Cal., Inc. (2010) 191 Cal.App.4th 53, 63.)
 
Conclusory
allegations, devoid of any factual assertions, are insufficient to support a
conclusion that parties acted with oppression, fraud or malice.  (Smith v. Sup. Ct. (1992) 10 Cal. App.
4th 1033, 1042.)  Wrongful employment
termination alone does not support an award of punitive damages, but also there
must be fraud, oppression or malice, such as despicable conduct, or a conscious
disregard of the plaintiff's rights. (Scott v. Phoenix Schools, Inc.
(2009) 175 Cal.App.4th 702, 715-17.) 
“‘Punitive damages are proper only when the tortious conduct rises to
levels of extreme indifference to the plaintiff's rights, a level which decent
citizens should not have to tolerate.’”  (Am.
Airlines v. Sheppard (2002) 96 Cal. App. 4th 1017, 1051.)
 
Here,
Plaintiff has not shown that anyone acted with malice, fraud, or oppression.  The alleged conduct of which Plaintiff
complains does not rise to such an extreme indifference to Plaintiff’s rights as
to support a claim for punitive damages. 
Accordingly, Plaintiff’s claim for punitive damages fails.
 
In
sum, the Court finds there is no triable issue of material fact and Defendant
is entitled to judgment as a matter of law. 

 
RULING
Based
on all the foregoing, the Motion is GRANTED.
 
Moving
party is ordered to give notice of this ruling.            
 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at SMC_DEPT56@lacourt.org as directed
by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department does not receive an email
and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion will be placed off
calendar.
 
Dated this 4th day of October 2024
 




 


 




 


Hon. Holly J.
  Fujie
Judge of the
  Superior Court
 




 