 Case Number:  23STCV27726    Hearing Date:   October 4, 2024    Dept:  56  
 
 
SUPERIOR
COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR
THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



DANNY NAVARRO,
  an individual, 
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
 
BARBARA MENDOZA an individual;
JOHNNY RAMIREZ; an individual and
LISA GRANADO an individual.
and DOES 1 to 5 inclusive, 
                                                                             
  
                        Defendants.    
                           


 


     
  CASE NO.:  23STCV27726
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER RE: 
 
MOTION TO SET ASIDE/VACATE DEFAULT AND/OR
  DEFAULT JUDGMENT
 
DEFAULT JUDGMENT APPLICATION
 
Date: October 4, 2024
Time: 8:30 a.m.
Dept. 56
 
 



 
MOVING PARTY: Defendants BARBARA MENDOZA, JOHNNY
RAMIREZ and LISA GRANADO (collectively, “Defendants”)
 
RESPONDING PARTY: Plaintiff
DANNY NAVARRO (“Plaintiff”)
 
The
Court has considered the moving and opposition papers.  No reply has been filed.  Any reply was required to have been filed and
served at least five court days prior to the hearing.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 1005, subd. (b).)
 
BACKGROUND
             On November 13, 2023, Plaintiff filed a
complaint for equitable relief (“Complaint”), seeking to vacate the judgment
entered in another case – Barbara Mendoza v. Danny Navarro, et al., LASC
No. 19STCV29385.  
 
            Defendants have not filed a
responsive pleading to the Complaint.  On
January 26, 2024, default was entered against Defendants.  On July 10, 2024, Plaintiff filed a Request
for Entry of Judgment in view of Defendants’ default.
 
            On July 24, 2024, Defendants filed
the instant Motion to Set Aside/Vacate Default and/or Default Judgment (the
“Motion”).  Plaintiff filed an opposition
on September 23, 2024.
 
EVIDENTIARY OBJECTIONS
             Plaintiff objects to the Declaration of Azuka
Uzoh (“Uzoh Decl.”), submitted by Defendant in support of the Motion.  The objections are OVERRULED.
 
DISCUSSION
The
court is empowered to relieve a party or their legal representative from a
judgment, dismissal, order, or other proceeding taken against them through
their mistake, inadvertence, surprise or excusable neglect.  (CCP § 473, subd. (b).)  Application for this relief shall be accompanied
by a copy of the answer or other pleading proposed to be filed therein,
otherwise the application shall not be granted, and shall be made within a
reasonable time, in no case exceeding six months, after the judgment, dismissal,
order, or proceeding was taken.  (Id.)
 The law favors a trial on the merits and
courts therefore liberally construe section 473.  (Bonzer v. City of Huntington Park (1993)
20 Cal.App.4th 1474, 1477.)  Doubts in
applying section 473 are
resolved in favor
of the party seeking relief from default.  (Id. at 1478.)
            In support of the Motion,
Defendants’ counsel declares that on November 18, 2023, she received an email from
the granddaughter of one of the defendants, alerting her to this action.  (Uzoh Declaration, ¶ 6.)  She, however, traveled out of the country in
the month of December 2023, during which she was informed the Defendants had
been served with the summons and complaint in this case.  (Id., ¶ 8.)  She was provided a copy of the summons and
complaint after she returned from vacation on January 12, 2024.  (Id., ¶ 9.)  Defendants’ counsel further states that it was
her fault that a responsive pleading was not filed, as her office lost track of
the case.  (Id., ¶ 10.)
 
            The Court finds that Plaintiff has
adequately shown that the dismissal of the Complaint was the result of
Plaintiff ’s counsel’s mistake, inadvertence or excusable neglect.  In addition, the Motion is timely filed
within six months of the entry of default, and is accompanied by a copy of the
answer proposed to be filed.  Plaintiff’s
claim in the Opposition implying that fault should be attributed to Defendants themselves
and not to Defendants’ counsel is not well-supported, especially in light of
the sworn statement from Defendant’s counsel.
 
            Plaintiff also argue in his opposition
that Defendant should be required to pay compensatory legal fees in the amount
of $2,230, representing one (1) hour preparing the three (3) Requests for Entry
of Default, and three (3) hours preparing the Application for Default Judgment,
for a total of four (4) hours of attorney time, plus $30 in court filing fees.  (Declaration of Douglas F. Galanter).  CCP § 473(b) provides that “[t]court shall,
whenever relief is granted based on an attorney’s affidavit of fault, direct
the attorney to pay reasonable compensatory legal fees and costs to opposing
counsel or parties…”   The Court finds that the requested amount in
attorneys’ fees and costs is reasonable.
 
RULING
The
Court, therefore, GRANTS the Motion and orders that the entry of default be
vacated and that the Complaint be reinstated. Defendants are ordered to file
their answer by close of business Monday, October 7, 2024.  Plaintiff’s
application for default judgment is DENIED.   Court will hold a case
management conference on October 18, 2024 at 8:30 a.m. in this
department. 
 
Further,
Defendants’ attorney is ordered to pay $2,230.00 to Plaintiff’s counsel within
ten days of the date of this order. 
            
Moving
party is ordered to give notice of this ruling.            
 
Parties
who intend to submit on this tentative must send an email to the Court at SMC_DEPT56@lacourt.org
as directed by the instructions provided on the court website at
www.lacourt.org.  If the department does
not receive an email and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion
will be placed off calendar.
 
Dated this 4th day of October 2024
 




 


 




 


Hon. Holly J.
  Fujie
Judge of the
  Superior Court
 



