 Case Number:  23STCV08063    Hearing Date:   October 4, 2024    Dept:  56  
 
SUPERIOR
COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR
THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



HICKS MEDIA,
  INC., a Texas Corporation,
as successor to M&M MOMAR, INC., 
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
 
BIG TICKET PRODUCTIONS, INC., a
Delaware Corporation; PARAMOUNT
PICTURES CORPORATION, a Delaware
Corporation; CBS STUDIOS f/k/a CBS
TELEVISION STUDIOS, a subsidiary of CBS
ENTERTAINMENT GROUP, a division of
VIACOMCBS INC., a Delaware Corporation;
and DOES 1-50, inclusive, 
                                                                             
  
                        Defendants.           

 

 
AND RELATED CROSS-ACTION.
                    


 


     
  CASE NO.:  23STCV08063
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER RE: 
MOTION FOR LEAVE TO AMEND THE ANSWER TO
  THE SECOND AMENDED COMPLAINT
 
Date: October 4, 2024
Time: 8:30 a.m.
Dept. 56
 
 



 
MOVING PARTY: Defendants
and Cross-Complainants Big Ticket Productions Inc., Paramount Pictures
Corporation, and CBS Studios Inc. fka CBS Television Studios (collectively, “Defendants”)
 
RESPONDING PARTY: None
The
Court has considered the moving papers. 
No opposition has been filed.  Any
opposition was required to have been filed and served at least nine court days
prior to the hearing.  (Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 1005, subd. (b).)
 
BACKGROUND
            This action was initiated by
Plaintiff in April 2023.  On April 8,
2024, Plaintiff filed the operative Second Amended Complaint (“SAC”), asserting
the following causes of action: (1) breach of written contract; (2) breach of
the implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing; (3) intentional
interference with contract; and (4) accounting. 
The Court overruled Defendants’ demurrer to the SAC in July, and
Defendants filed an Answer on July 26, 2024.
 
            On August 28, 2024, Defendants filed
the instant Motion for Leave to Amend the Answer to the Second Amended
Complaint (the “Motion”).  No opposition
has been filed.
 
JUDICIAL NOTICE 
            Defendants request judicial notice of the following:
1.    
Recent Hicks Media, Inc. History on the California
Secretary of State Business Search Website as of August 22, 2024 (Exhibit 1 to
the Declaration of Louise D. Nutt [“Nutt Decl.”]);
2.    
Certificate of Status for Hicks Media, Inc. from the
California Secretary of State as of August 13, 2024 (Exhibit 2 to the Nutt Decl.);
3.    
A Certificate of Forfeiture Pursuant to Section
171.309 of the Texas Tax Code of Hicks Media, Inc. issued by the Texas
Secretary of State (Exhibit 3 to the Nutt Decl.);
4.    
Recent Hicks Media, Inc. History on the California
Secretary of State Business Search Website as of August 27, 2024 (Exhibit 4 to
the Nutt Decl.); and
5.    
Hicks Media, Inc. Business Organizations Inquiry –
Filing History from the Texas Secretary of State as of August 27, 2024 (Exhibit
5 to the Nutt Decl.).
 
The request for judicial notice (“RJN”) is GRANTED in its entirety pursuant
to Evidence Code section 452, subdivision (b) which allows for taking judicial
notice of “[r]egulations and legislative enactments issued by or under the
authority of the United States or any public entity in the United States”, and
subdivision (c) which allows for the judicial notice of “[o]fficial acts of the
legislative, executive, and judicial departments of the United States and of
any state of the United States.”  The
Court also notes that the requested items consist of “facts and propositions
that are not reasonably subject to dispute and are capable of immediate and
accurate determination by resort to sources of reasonably indisputable
accuracy.”  (Evid. Code § 452, subd.
(h).)
 
DISCUSSION
Code
of Civil Procedure Section 473 permits the trial court in its discretion to
allow amendments to pleadings in the furtherance of justice.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 473, subd. (a)(1).) Code
of Civil Procedure Section 576 provides that any judge, at any time before or
after commencement of trial, in the furtherance of justice, and upon such terms
as may be proper, may allow the amendment of any pleading or pretrial
conference order.  (Code Civ. Proc., §
576.) There is a policy of great liberality in permitting amendments to the
pleadings at any stage of the proceeding.  (Berman v. Bromberg (1997) 56
Cal.App.4th 936, 945.)  An application to
amend a pleading is addressed to the trial judge’s sound discretion.  (Id.)  If the motion to amend is timely made and the
granting of the motion will not prejudice the opposing party, it is error to
refuse permission to amend and where the refusal also results in a party being
deprived of the right to assert a meritorious cause of action or a meritorious
defense, it is not only error but an abuse of discretion.  (Morgan v. Superior Court of Cal. In and
For Los Angeles County (1959) 172 Cal.App.2d 527, 530.)  Where no prejudice is shown to the adverse
party, the liberal rule of allowance prevails.  (Higgins v. Del Faro (1981) 123
Cal.App.3d 558, 564.)
 
Under
California Rules of Court rule 3.1324, a motion for leave to amend a pleading must
be accompanied by a declaration that sets forth: (1) the effect of the
amendment; (2) why the amendment is necessary and proper; (3) when the facts
giving rise to the amended allegations were discovered; and (4) the reasons why
the request for amendment was not made sooner.  (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1324, subd. (b).)
 
A
motion to amend a pleading before trial must (1) include a copy of the proposed
amendment or amended pleading, which must be serially numbered to differentiate
it from previous pleadings or amendments; (2) state what allegations in the
previous pleading are proposed to be deleted, if any, and where, by page,
paragraph and line number, the deleted allegations are located; and (3) state
what allegations are proposed to be added to the previous pleading, if any, and
where, by page, paragraph, and line number, the additional allegations are
located.  (Cal. Rules of Court, rule
3.1324(a).)
 
            Here, the Motion
is accompanied by declarations of Defendants’ counsel stating that Defendants
has just recently discovered Plaintiff is a forfeited entity in both California
and Texas.  More specifically, Defendants’
counsel was conducting a California Secretary of State’s
(“CA-SOS”) website
search on Hicks Media, Inc. as part of preparing a Person Most Qualified
deposition notice
for Hicks Media, Inc.  (Declaration of
Justin Goldstein [“Goldstein Decl.”], ¶ 8.)  The search revealed that Hicks Media, Inc. was
forfeited by the CA-SOS on December 29, 2017, and by the California Franchise Tax
Board (“CA-FTB”) on April 2, 2024. (Goldstein Decl., ¶ 8; see Nutt Decl., ¶ 2,
Ex. 1 at p. 6; RJN, at ¶ 1.) The next day, Defendants’ counsel confirmed that forfeiture
by obtaining a Certificate of Status from the Secretary of State website. (Nutt
Decl., ¶ 3, Ex. 2 at p. 8; RJN, at ¶ 2.) Plaintiff remains forfeited by both
the CA-SOS and the CA-FTB. (Nutt Decl., ¶ 5-6, Ex. 4, at p. 12; RJN, at ¶ 4.)  Defendants were unaware of the forfeited
status of Plaintiff until two weeks ago and thus could not have made this
request for leave to amend earlier.  (Goldstein
Decl., ¶ 9; Nutt Declaration, ¶ 8.)  The
Court finds sufficient justification for allowing amendments to Defendants’
pleading as warranted by this recent discovery.
 
            The Motion clearly sets forth the
proposed changes to the previous pleading and also includes a copy of the
proposed amended pleading, as well as a redlined copy showing the differences
between the proposed First Amended Answer and Defendants’ Answer filed on July
26, 2024.  (Exhibits A and B to the
Goldstein Decl.)  Thus, the Court finds
Plaintiff has complied with Rules of Court, rule 3.1324(b).
 
            Finally, the Court finds no
indication that Plaintiff would be prejudiced by allowing the amendment.  As
long as no prejudice to the plaintiff is shown, the liberal policy regarding
amendment prevails and it is an abuse of discretion to refuse the amendment.  (Mesler v. Bragg Mgmt. Co. (1985) 39
Cal.3d 290, 297.)  
 
RULING
Accordingly, the Motion is GRANTED.  The Amended Answer is to be filed and served
within 15 days. 
 
Moving
party is ordered to give notice of this ruling.            
 
Parties
who intend to submit on this tentative must send an email to the Court at
SMC_DEPT56@lacourt.org as directed by the instructions provided on the court
website at www.lacourt.org.  If the
department does not receive an email and there are no appearances at the
hearing, the motion will be placed off calendar.
 
Dated this 4th day of October 2024
 




 


 




 


Hon. Holly J.
  Fujie
Judge of the
  Superior Court
 




 