

 
Background
 
            Plaintiff Bishoy Hanna brings this
action against Defendants Crystal Boultinghouse (Boultinghouse) and Josh Freeman Stinn
(Stinn), alleging cause of action for (1.)
conspiracy to violate 42 USC section 1983 and (2.) due process violation. 
 
Defendant Boultinghouse filed a
special motion to strike the Complaint pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure
section 425.16, arguing that the claims arise from petitioning conduct that is
protected under section 425.16, subdivision (e). 
 
No opposition was filed. However, on
March 7, 2024, Plaintiff filed a First Amended Complaint. 
 
            On March 19,
2024, the Court granted the special motion to strike.
 
            Now,
Plaintiff moves to set aside this order. Defendant has filed an opposition. No
reply was filed. 
 
            The motion
is denied. 
 
Legal Standard
 
Code of Civil Procedure section 473, subdivision (b)
provides for either discretionary or mandatory relief from certain prior
actions or proceedings in the trial court. (Luri¿v. Greenwald¿(2003) 107
Cal.App.4th 1119, 1124.)¿¿
 
            “ ‘Under the discretionary relief
provision, on a showing of “mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or excusable
neglect,”¿the court has discretion to allow relief from a “judgment, dismissal,
order, or other proceeding taken against”¿a party or his or her attorney.¿¿Under
the mandatory relief provision, on the other hand, upon a showing by attorney
declaration of “mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or neglect,”¿the court shall
vacate any “resulting default judgment or dismissal entered.” ’ [Citation.]
Applications seeking relief under the mandatory provision of section 473 must
be ‘accompanied by an attorney’s sworn affidavit attesting to his or her
mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or neglect.’ The mandatory provision¿further
adds that ‘whenever relief¿is granted based on an attorney’s affidavit of fault
[the court shall] direct the attorney to pay reasonable compensatory legal fees
and costs¿to opposing counsel or parties.’¿” 
(Ibid.; Code Civ. Proc., § 473, subd. (b).)¿¿ 
 
Discussion
 
            Plaintiff moves to set aside the
March 19, 2024 Court Order granting Defendant Boultinghouse’s special motion to
strike pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 473, subdivision (b).
 
            He asserts that he failed to oppose
the special motion to strike because he “was confused and was of the impression
that his amended complaint would act to moot the demurrer hearing, without no
idea about the other filing for motion to strike.” (Mot., 3:10-12.) Thus, the
essence of Plaintiff’s argument appears to be that he believed that his First
Amended Complaint mooted out Defendant’s special motion to strike as a matter
of law. 
 
            As a preliminary matter, Plaintiff
submits zero evidence – such as a declaration confirming his mistaken belief –
to support this motion. The motion relies solely on Plaintiff’s argument in his
papers. This alone is fatal to the motion for relief under Code of Civil
Procedure section 473, subdivision (b). As even Plaintiff’s moving papers acknowledge,
some evidence is required: “When a party moves promptly to seek relief from a
default entered against him or her, very slight evidence is required to justify
a trial court’s order setting aside the default.” (Mot., 4:22-23 [citing Shamblin
v. Brattain (1988) 44 Cal. 3d 474, 478].)
 
            Further, Plaintiff’s failure to file
an opposition to Defendant’s special motion to strike was not the result of mistake,
surprise or excusable neglect.
 
            “’Mistake
is not a ground for relief under section 473, subdivision (b), when ‘the court
finds that the “mistake” is simply the result of professional incompetence,
general ignorance of the law, or unjustifiable negligence in discovering the
law . . ..’ (8 Witkin, Cal. Procedure (5th ed. 2008) Attack on Judgment in
Trial Court, § 155, p. 749).”  (Henderson
v. Pacific Gas & Electric Co. (2010) 187 Cal.App.4th 215, 229–230
[quoting Hearn v. Howard (2009) 177 Cal.App.4th 1193, 1206].)
 
            “Finally, as for inadvertence or
neglect, ‘[t]o warrant relief under section 473 a litigant's neglect must have
been such as might have been the act of a reasonably prudent person under the
same circumstances. The inadvertence contemplated by the statute does not mean
mere inadvertence in the abstract. If it is wholly inexcusable it does not
justify relief.” (Henderson v. Pacific Gas & Electric Co. (2010) 187
Cal.App.4th 215, 230>0
 
            As the Court noted in its ruling on
the special motion to strike, the amended pleading does not moot out the
anti-SLAPP motion where the anti-SLAPP motion was pending at the time the FAC
was filed. (JKC3H8 v. Colton (2013) 221 Cal.App.4th 468, 477 [explaining that “[a]
plaintiff or cross-complainant may not seek to subvert or avoid a ruling on an
anti-SLAPP motion by amending the challenged complaint or cross-complaint in
response to the motion.”].)
 
            Thus, the rule (as articulated in
this 2013 case) that an amended pleading does not moot out a pending anti-SLAPP
motion is well-established and cannot constitute the basis for a mistake. 
 
            Moreover, the law regarding
“mistake” and “excusable neglect” applies to Plaintiff, even though he is
self-represented. “Under the law, a party may choose to act as his or her own
attorney. [Citations.] ‘[S]uch a party is to be treated like any other party
and is entitled to the same, but no greater consideration than other litigants
and attorneys. [Citation.]’ [Citation.]” (Nwosu v. Uba (2004) 122
Cal.App.4th 1229, 1246–1247.) Thus, a self-represented litigant is not entitled
to lenient treatment. (Rappleyea v. Campbell (1994) 8 Cal.4th 975,
984–985.)
 
            Further, as Plaintiff’s numerous
legal citations in his papers suggest, Plaintiff is capable of conducting legal
research. Plaintiff cannot rely on mistake (or excusable neglect) for failing to
conduct any legal research into this well-established rule or otherwise
educating himself on the law in this area.
 
            As an additional grounds for denying
the motion, Plaintiff failed to comply with the procedural requirement that the
application for relief “shall be accompanied by a copy of the answer or other
pleading proposed to be filed therein . . ..” (Code Civ. Proc., § 473. subd.
(b).) Here, Plaintiff’s request for relief does not include a copy of the
proposed opposition to Defendant's anti-SLAPP motion. 
 
            Thus, on these multiple grounds, the
motion to set aside the court order is denied. 
 
The Court need not address Plaintiff’s substantive arguments
as to why the anti-SLAPP should have been denied on the merits. However, the
Court will briefly note that its ruling was not a close call, and no opposition
would have saved Plaintiff’s claims (especially where the second prong of the
motion failed, in part, for legal reasons and not the absence of evidence). 
 
Conclusion
 
The motion to set aside
the March 19, 2024 Court Order granting Defendant Boultinghouse’s special
motion to strike is denied.