

 
            This
action arises out of a construction dispute. On March 16, 2023, Plaintiff Skyland
Construction and Remodeling Co. filed a Complaint for (1.) breach of contract,
(2.) foreclosure of Mechanics Lien, and (3.) quantum meruit. The Complaint
alleges that Defendant Terrisa Chia failed to pay amounts owed for construction
services performed by Plaintiff in the amount of $103,448.40. 
 
On March 21, 2024, Defendant Terrisa Chia moved to file a
Cross-Complaint. No opposition was filed.  
 
            The Court will grant the motion for
leave to file a Cross-Complaint. 
 
Legal Standard
 
            Code of Civil Procedure section
428.50 provides as follows: 
 
“(a) A party shall file a cross-complaint against any of the parties who
filed the complaint or cross-complaint against him or her before or at the same
time as the answer to the complaint or cross-complaint.
(b) Any other cross-complaint may be filed at any time before the court
has set a date for trial. 
(c) A party shall obtain leave of court to file any cross-complaint
except one filed within the time specified in subdivision (a) or (b). Leave may
be granted in the interest of justice at any time during the course of the
action.”
 
Under the statutory scheme, “[s]ubdivision (a) addresses compulsory
cross-complaints, those related to the subject matter of the underlying
complaint which exist at the time of service of the answer to the complaint on
the particular plaintiff.” (City of Hanford v. Superior Court (1989) 208
Cal.App.3d 580, 586–587; see also Code Civ. Proc. § 426.30, subd. (a).)
 
Code of Civil Procedure section 428.10 governs permissive
cross-complaints. It provides in relevant part: “A party against whom a cause
of action has been asserted ... may file a cross-complaint setting forth [¶]
... [¶] (b) Any cause of action he has against a person alleged to be liable
thereon, whether or not such person is already a party to the action, if the
cause of action asserted in his cross-complaint (1) arises out of the same
transaction, occurrence, or series of transactions or occurrences as the cause
brought against him.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 428.10, subd. (b).)
 
Discussion
 
            Defendant moves for
leave to file a Cross-Complaint pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure sections
428.50.
 
            The Cross-Complaint
alleges Plaintiff used
defective materials and failed to perform construction in workmanlike manner;
as a result, Defendant Chia was forced to hire other contractors to finish and
fix the defective work performed by Plaintiff, as well as perform remediation
of mold damage. The Cross-Complaint contains causes of action for (1.) breach
of contract, (2.) breach of good faith and fair dealing, (3.) negligence, (4.) negligent
misrepresentation, (5.) intentional misrepresentation, and (6.) financial elder
abuse.
 
            In support of this motion, Defendant
contends that filing this Cross-Complaint will not prejudice Plaintiff as trial
is not set until June 30, 2025; as such, there will be ample time to take
discovery on these new cross-claims and for Plaintiff to prepare a defense. (Greenstein
Decl., ¶¶ 5-6.) Further, it will save judicial resources to try these claims
together given the overlapping witnesses and evidence between the operative
complaint and the Cross-Complaint.
 
            Here, there can be no dispute that the
Cross-Complaint arises out of the subject matter of Plaintiff’s
operative pleading based upon facts that existed at the time of the Complaint.
Thus, the Cross-Complaint contains “related causes of action” and the
Cross-Complaint must be treated as a compulsory cross-complaint. (See Code Civ. Proc., § 426.10, subd. (c) [The phrase
“related cause of action” is defined as “a cause of action which arises out of
the same transaction, occurrence, or series of transactions or occurrences as
the cause of action which the plaintiff alleges in his complaint.”]; Align
Technology, Inc. v. Tran (2009) 179 Cal.App.4th 949, 960 [Relatedness “
‘requires “not an absolute identity of factual backgrounds for the two claims,
but only a logical relationship between them.”].)
 
            Thus, a trial court
must allow a party to file a compulsory cross-complaint unless that party has
acted in bad faith. (Silver Organizations Ltd. v. Frank (1990) 217
Cal.App.3d 94, 98.) “Factors such as oversight, inadvertence, neglect, mistake
or other cause, are insufficient grounds to deny the motion unless accompanied
by bad faith.” (Id. at p. 99.) “ ‘Bad faith’ is defined as ‘[t]he
opposite of “good faith,” generally implying or involving actual or
constructive fraud, or a design to mislead or deceive another, or a neglect or
refusal to fulfill some duty or some contractual obligation, not prompted by an
honest mistake ..., but by some interested or sinister motive[,] ... not simply
bad judgment or negligence, but rather ... the conscious doing of a wrong
because of dishonest purpose or moral obliquity; ... it contemplates a state of
mind affirmatively operating with furtive design or ill will.’ ” (Pugh v.
See's Candies, Inc. (1988) 203 Cal.App.3d 743, 764.)


In the absence of an opposition, there is no evidence of bad
faith. Thus, the Court must grant the motion for leave to file a Cross-Complaint.
The law is
clear that a party may request to file a compulsory cross-complaint “at any
time during the course of the action” (Code Civ. Proc., § 426.50 [italics
added]), and a court “shall grant, upon such terms as may be just to the
parties, leave to ... file the cross-compliant, to assert such cause if the
party who failed to plead the cause acted in good faith. This subdivision shall
be liberally construed to avoid forfeiture of causes of action.” (Code Civ.
Proc., § 426.50 [italics added].)
 
Conclusion
 
In sum, the motion for leave to file a cross-complaint is
granted. Defendant shall file and serve the Cross-Complaint attached as Exhibit
A to the Greenstein declaration within three (3) court days.  
 
 
 
 
 
 