 Case Number:  PC058369    Hearing Date:   May 20, 2024    Dept:  F43 Dept. F-43
Date: 5-20-24
Case # PC058369,
Erik L. Lassman vs. Dorene Robinson
Trial Date: N/A
 
DEMURRER TO ANSWER
 
MOVING PARTY: Plaintiff
and Cross-Defendant DeWelt, LLC
RESPONDING
PARTY: Defendant and Cross-Complainant Road Runner Land & Homes, LLC
 
RELIEF
REQUESTED
Plaintiff
DeWelt is demurring to Defendant’s answer.
 
RULING: Demurrer
is overruled.
 
SUMMARY OF
ACTION
This action
arises from competing ownership claims to the property located at 30141
Lexington Dr., Val Verde, CA. Plaintiff Erik Lassman and Jim V. Robinson owned
the property as joint tenants with rights of survivorship. In April 2011, Erik
Lassman, as CEO and owner of Dewelt, LLC, transferred the entire joint tenancy
interest to Dewelt, LLC. On May 23, 2011, Jim V. Robinson transferred his joint
interest to Defendant Road Runner Land & Homes, LLC, a Nevada Corporation. Road
Runner Nevada’s corporate status has been permanently revoked.
 
Road Runner
Land & Homes, LLC, a Wyoming LLC, filed an answer to Plaintiff’s suit on
October 17, 2023. Plaintiff Dewelt, LLC (Dewelt) filed a demurrer to Road
Runner Wyoming Answer on December 19, 2023. Dewelt argues that Road Runner
Wyoming lacks standing to answer the suit because it was not the entity that
was sued and is not a party to the case.
 
Road Runner
Wyoming filed an opposition to Dewelt’s demurrer on May 7, 2024. In its
opposition, Road Runner Wyoming argues that Dewelt’s demurrer was untimely, that
Dewelt failed to meet and confer prior to filing the demurrer, and that Road
Runner Wyoming has standing to appear in this action. Road Runner Wyoming also
raises the issue that Dewelt cites the wrong legal standard for evaluating a
demurrer to an answer.
 
Dewelt argues
in its reply that its demurrer was timely because it filed a declaration
seeking an automatic 30-day extension back on November 16, 2023. Next, it
argues that there was sufficient meet and confer, and even if there was not,
that is not a sufficient basis to deny the demurrer. Finally, it argues that
Road Runner Wyoming is without standing because it is not a named party.
 
Dewelt’s Request
for Judicial Notice: Dewelt has requested that the Court take judicial notice of
various deeds and documents from the Nevada Secretary of State website. The
Court will take judicial notice of the documents, but only as to their
existence, not for the truth of the content contained therein.
 
ANALYSIS
CCP § 430.20
sets forth the grounds for a demurrer to an answer, which are the following:
the answer does not state facts sufficient to constitute a defense, the answer
is uncertain (ambiguous and unintelligible); and/or where the answer pleads a
contract, it cannot be ascertained from the answer whether the contract is written
or oral.
 
“Unlike the
usual general demurrer to a complaint the inquiry is not into the statement of
a cause of action,” but rather “it is whether the answer raises a defense to
the plaintiff’s stated cause of action.” (Timberidge Enterprises, Inc. v.
City of Santa Rosa (1978) 86 Cal.App.3d 873, 879- 880.) A demurrer to an
answer “admits all facts well pleaded in the answer, including denials.” (Warren
v. Harootunian (1961) 189 Cal.App.2d 546, 548.) Moreover, “if one of the
defenses or counterclaims is free from the objections urged by demurrer, then a
demurrer to the entire answer must be overruled.” (South Shore Land Co. v.
Petersen (1964) 226 Cal.App.2d 725, 734.) When “the answer sets up a good
defense and denies material allegations of the complaint,” “it is sufficient as
against a general demurrer.” (Barasch v. Epstein (1957) 147 Cal.App.2d
439, 443.)
 
Road Runner
argues in its opposition that based on this standard, Dewelt’s demurrer should
be overruled because Dewelt did not base its demurrer on any of the grounds in
CCP § 430.20. Instead, Dewelt appears to have based its demurrer on the
standard applicable to complaints and cross-complaints. Dewelt also does not object
to any of the denials or defenses in the answer or base its demurrer on
anything apparent on the face of the answer.
 
Dewelt does not
address its failure to cite the correct legal standard in its reply. The Court
agrees with Road Runner Wyoming that Dewelt’s demurrer to the answer does not
meet the applicable legal standard for demurrers to answers, nor is it based on
any of the possible grounds for demurrer.
 
The Court
overrules Dewelt’s demurrer on this basis. However, the Court will briefly
address the other procedural arguments.
 
            Timeliness of the Demurrer
Road Runner
Wyoming argues in its opposition that Dewelt failed to timely file its
demurrer. CCP § 430.40(b) provides that “[a] party who has filed a complaint or
cross-complaint may, within 10 days after service of the answer to his
pleading, demur to the answer.”
 
Road Runner
Wyoming argues that this means that the demurrer should have been filed by
October 31, 2023, to account for the service of the answer by electronic mail.
Dewelt did not file its demurrer until December 19, 2023.
 
In Dewelt’s
reply, Dewelt argues that its demurrer was timely filed because it sought a
30-day extension to file its demurrer on November 16, 2023. 
 
The relevant section
concerning the 30-day extension is from CCP § 430.41(a)(2):
“The parties shall meet and confer at
least 5 days before the date the responsive pleading is due. If the parties are
not able to meet and confer at least 5 days before the date the responsive
pleading is due, the demurring party shall be granted an automatic 30-day
extension of time within which to file a responsive pleading, by filing and
serving, on or before the date on which a demurrer would be due, a declaration
stating under penalty of perjury that a good faith attempt to meet and confer
was made and explaining the reasons why the parties could not meet and confer.
The 30-day extension shall commence from the date the responsive pleading was
previously due, and the demurring party shall not be subject to default during
the period of the extension. Any further extensions shall be obtained by court
order upon a showing of good cause.”
 
The answer was
filed on October 17, 2023. A responsive pleading in this case was due on
October 31, 2023. The alleged meet and confer started on November 13, 2023. The
declaration filed with Dewelt’s demurrer claims that this was at least 5 days
before any responsive pleadings were due. (Oronsaye Decl., ¶ 3.) However,
Dewelt’s counsel must have had the deadlines for responsive pleadings mixed up.
While it is true that the deadline to file a demurrer to a complaint is 30 days
(CCP § 430.40(a)), the deadline to file a demurrer to an answer is 10 days (CCP
§ 430.40(b)). Even if Dewelt had properly obtained the 30-day extension, which
it did not do so, the 30 day extension would only have taken the deadline out
to roughly the end of November or very beginning of December, not December 19,
when Dewelt’s demurrer to the answer was filed. 
 
Dewelt’s
demurrer is also overruled for being untimely filed. 
 
            Meet and Confer
There is some
dispute between the parties regarding the sufficiency of Dewelt’s meet and
confer. CCP § 430.41(a) requires a demurring party to meet and confer with the
party who filed the pleading. However, CCP § 430.41(a)(4) states that “A
determination by the court that the meet and confer process was insufficient
shall not be grounds to overrule or sustain a demurrer.”
 
Therefore, the
sufficiency of the meet and confer process does not matter in deciding a
demurrer. 
 
            Standing
Because the
Court is overruling the demurrer because it fails to meet the applicable
standard for demurrers for answer and is untimely, the Court will not reach a
decision on the standing issue at this time.
 
CONCLUSION
Dewelt’s
demurrer is overruled on the basis that it fails to meet the applicable legal
standard for a demurrer to an answer. Alternatively, the demurrer is overruled
for being untimely.
 
Moving party to
give notice.