 Case Number:  23PSCV03773    Hearing Date:   September 19, 2024    Dept:  G Defendant Hyundai Motor America’s Motion to Compel Binding  Arbitration Respondent: Plaintiff Donald  Rayo TENTATIVE RULING Defendant Hyundai Motor America’s Motion to Compel  Binding Arbitration is GRANTED. The matter is STAYED  pending completion of binding arbitration. BACKGROUND This is a Song-Beverly  action. In December 2021, Plaintiff Donald Rayo allegedly entered into a  warranty contract with Defendant Hyundai Motor America (Hyundai) by purchasing  a 2022 Hyundai Santa Fe. Subsequently, Rayo alleges the vehicle presented with  serious defects in its structural, suspension, engine, electrical and emissions  systems. On December 4, 2023, Rayo  filed a complaint against Hyundai; Bay Area AG Inc., doing business as  CardinaleWay Hyundai of Glendora (CardinaleWay); and Does 1-10, alleging the  following causes of action: (1) breach of express warranty; (2) breach of  implied warranty; (3) violation of Song-Beverly Act section 1793.2, subdivision  (b); and (4) negligent repair. On June 25, 2024, Hyundai  filed the present motion. A hearing on the present motion is set for September  19, 2024, along with an informal discovery conference. A post-mediation status  conference/trial setting conference is also set for January 14, 2025. REQUESTS FOR JUDICIAL  NOTICE Hyundai requests the court  take judicial notice of the Complaint filed in the present action. Rayo  requests the court take judicial notice of federal regulations and  congressional records. The court GRANTS their requests pursuant to  Evidence Code section 452, subdivisions (c) and (d). EVIDENTIARY OBJECTIONS Rayo’s evidentiary objections  are OVERRULED. ANALYSIS Hyundai  moves to compel arbitration of Rayo’s lemon law claims. For the following  reasons, the court GRANTS Hyundai’s motion. Legal Standard “A  written agreement to submit to arbitration an existing controversy or a  controversy thereafter arising is valid, enforceable and irrevocable, save upon  such grounds as exist for the revocation of any contract.” (Code Civ. Proc., §  1281.) The court must grant a petition to compel arbitration unless it finds  no written agreement to arbitrate exists, the right to compel arbitration has  been waived, grounds exist for revocation of the agreement, or litigation is  pending that may render the arbitration unnecessary or create conflicting  rulings on common issues.¿ (Code Civ. Proc., § 1281.2.) A petition to compel  arbitration functions as a motion. (Code Civ. Proc., § 1290.2.) In  a motion or petition to compel arbitration, “the moving party bears the burden  of producing ‘prima facie evidence of a written agreement to arbitrate the  controversy.’” (Gamboa v. Northeast Community Clinic (2021) 72  Cal.App.5th 158, 165 (Gamboa).) Once the court finds an arbitration  agreement exists, the party opposing arbitration bears the burden of  establishing a defense to enforcement by preponderance of the evidence. (Rosenthal  v. Great Western Fin. Securities Corp. (1996) 14 Cal.4th 394, 413.) In interpreting  an arbitration agreement, courts apply the same principles used to interpret  contractual provisions with the fundamental goal of giving effect to the  parties’ mutual intentions and applying contractual language if clear and  explicit. (Valencia v. Smyth (2010) 185 Cal.App.4th 153, 177.) Because  public policy strongly favors arbitration, “any doubts regarding the  arbitrability of a dispute are resolved in favor of arbitration.” (Coast  Plaza Doctors Hosp. v. Blue Cross of California (2000) 83 Cal.App.4th 677,  686.) The Federal  Arbitration Act (FAA) applies to contracts that involve interstate commerce (9  U.S.C. §§ 1, 2), but since arbitration is a matter of contract, the FAA also  applies if stated in the agreement.  (See Victrola 89, LLC v. Jaman Properties  8 LLC (2020) 46 Cal.App.5th 337, 355.) Pursuant to the FAA, the court’s role  “is limited to determining (1) whether a valid agreement to arbitrate exists  and, if it does, (2) whether the agreement encompasses the dispute at issue.” (Philadelphia  Indemnity Ins. Co. v. SMG Holdings, Inc. (2019) 44 Cal.App.5th 834, 840,  quoting U.S. ex rel. Welch v. My Left Foot Children’s Therapy, LLC (9th  Cir. 2017) 871 F.3d 791, 796.) Discussion In  this case, Hyundai argues Rayo’s action is subject to two different arbitration  provisions, including a provision in the subject vehicle’s 2022 Owner’s  Handbook and Warranty Information (Owner’s Handbook) and a provision in the  Connected Services Agreement Terms and Conditions (Bluelink Agreement) for Hyundai’s  Bluelink services. Because the court finds the arbitration provision in the  Bluelink Agreement applies to the present action, the court need not determine  the effect of the arbitration provision in the Owner’s Handbook. When  Rayo enrolled in Hyundai’s Bluelink services, Hyundai argues Rayo agreed to the  Bluelink Agreement which included an arbitration provision. (Rao Decl., ¶ 4-6.)  The provision provided in relevant part as follows: “Hyundai and you agree to arbitrate any and all  disputes and claims between us arising out of or relating to this Agreement,  Connected Services, Connected Services Systems, Service Plans, your Vehicle,  use of the sites, or products, services, or programs you purchase, enroll in or  seek product/service support for, whether you are a Visitor or Customer, via  the sites or through mobile application, except any disputes or claims which  under governing law are not subject to arbitration, to the maximum extent permitted  by applicable law. This agreement to arbitrate is intended to be broadly  interpreted and to make all disputes and claims between us subject to  arbitration to the fullest extent permitted by law. . . . The agreement to  arbitrate otherwise includes, but is not limited to: claims based in contract,  tort, warranty, statute, fraud, misrepresentation or any other legal theory;  claims that arose before this or any prior Agreement . . . .” (Rao Decl., Ex. 2,  § 15(C)(a).) In  opposition, Rayo argues the clear language of the Bluelink Agreement indicates  the arbitration provision only applies to claims related to Bluelink and does  not apply to statutory warranty claims. (Opp., p. 12:15-22.) Rayo, however, fails  to provide the court with any examples of such purportedly clear language. While  Rayo points to the language stating “Hyundai and you agree to arbitrate any and  all disputes and claims between us arising out of or relating to this Agreement,”  Rayo’s quotation omits the remaining language which also includes claims  arising out of or relating to service plans or Rayo’s vehicle. (Rao Decl., Ex.  2, § 15(C)(a).) Rayo also points to language in the Bluelink Agreement that  disclaims warranties. (Rao Decl., Ex. 2, § 11.) But the fact that the Bluelink  Agreement disclaims warranties supports the broad interpretation of the  arbitration provision as it also applies to warranty claims. Last,  Rayo points to the preamble of the arbitration provision which states as  follows: “MOST CUSTOMER CONCERNS CAN BE RESOLVED QUICKLY AND  TO THE CUSTOMER'S SATISFACTION BY CONTACTING HYUNDAI’S CUSTOMER SERVICE  DEPARTMENT AT CONSUMERAFFAIRS@HMAUSA.COM OR CALLING 800-633-5151 AND THE  GENESIS CUSTOMER SERVICE DEPARTMENT AT CUSTOMERCARE@GENESISMOTORSUSA.COM OR  CALLING 844-340-9741. IN THE UNLIKELY EVENT THAT THE APPROPRIATE CUSTOMER  SERVICE DEPARTMENT IS UNABLE TO RESOLVE YOUR CONCERNS, WE EACH AGREE TO RESOLVE  THOSE DISPUTES THROUGH BINDING ARBITRATION OR SMALL CLAIMS COURT INSTEAD OF IN  COURTS OF GENERAL JURISDICTION TO THE FULLEST EXTENT PERMITTED BY LAW, AND  SUBJECT TO THE TERMS OF THIS AGREEMENT.” (Rao Decl., Ex. 2, § 15(C).) Rayo  argues this language suggests the arbitration provision is limited to disputes  over connected services that cannot be resolved by Hyundai’s customer service  department. (Opp., p. 13:13-27.) But, nowhere in this clause does it state the  arbitration provision applies only to concerns related to connected services  issues.  The court notes that “concerns”  can also apply to a myriad of issues related to Rayo’s vehicle. Moreover,  Rayo’s argued interpretation would conflict with the arbitration provision’s  explicit application to claims arising from Rayo’s vehicle and based on  warranties or statutes. Further, the arbitration provision states it applies to  “claims that arose before this or any prior Agreement.” (Rao Decl., Ex. 2, §  15(C)(a).) Based  on the broad applicability of these provisions, the court finds this  arbitration provision is applicable to Rayo’s present action. Unconscionability In  opposition to the arbitration provision’s enforcement, Rayo argues the  arbitration provision is unconscionable. Pursuant to both federal and state  law, arbitration agreements are valid and enforceable, unless they are  revocable for reasons under state law that would render any contract revocable”  including “fraud, duress, and unconscionability.” (Tiri v. Lucky Chances,  Inc. (2014) 226 Cal.App.4th 231, 239.) “‘[U]nconscionability has both a  procedural and a substantive element,’ the former focusing on ‘oppression’ or ‘surprise’  due to unequal bargaining power, the latter on ‘overly harsh’ or ‘one-sided’  results.” (Armendariz v. Foundation Health Psychcare Services, Inc. (2000)  24 Cal.4th 83, 114, quoting A & M Produce Co. v. FMC Corp. (1982)  135 Cal.App.3d 473, 486-487.) While both elements must be present to prevent  enforcement, courts evaluate them as a sliding scale in that “the more  substantively oppressive the contract term, the less evidence of procedural  unconscionability is required to come to the conclusion that the term is  unenforceable, and vice versa.” (Ibid.) Procedural Unconscionability As  to procedural unconscionability, Rayo argues the arbitration provision is  procedurally unconscionable because it constitutes a contract of adhesion. (Opp.,  p. 14:24-15:19.) A contract of adhesion is “a standardized contract, which,  imposed and drafted by the party of superior bargaining strength, relegates to  the subscribing party only the opportunity to adhere to the contract or reject  it.” (Neal v. State Farm Ins. Companies (1961) 188 Cal.App.2d 690, 694.)  When “there is no other indication of oppression or surprise, ‘the degree of  procedural unconscionability of an adhesion agreement is low, and the agreement  will be enforceable unless the degree of substantive unconscionability is  high.’” (Serpa v. California Surety Investigations, Inc. (2013) 215  Cal.App.4th 695, 704, quoting Ajamian v. CantorCO2e (2012) 203  Cal.App.4th 771, 796.)  Here,  while the arbitration provision in the Bluelink agreement appears to be a contract  of adhesion, Rayo fails to point to any evidence of oppression or surprise.  Thus, the court finds the degree of procedural unconscionability is low. Substantive Unconscionability As  to substantive unconscionability, Rayo raises general objections to arbitration  while failing to point to a specific provision that rises to a high degree of  substantive unconscionability. (Opp., 15:21-16:18.) While Rayo argues arbitration  deprives Rayo of the right to a jury trial and violates the Magnuson-Moss  Warranty Act, Rayo fails to direct the court to a single California case that  has invalidated arbitration provisions on this ground. Rayo  also claims arbitration will limit Rayo’s ability to conduct discovery. Because  arbitration is meant to be streamlined, “discovery limitations are an integral  and permissible part of the arbitration process.” (Dotson v. Amgen, Inc. (2010)  181 Cal.App.4th 975, 983, citing Armendariz v. Foundation Health Psychcare  Services, Inc. (2000) 24 Cal.4th 83, 105-106 (Armendariz).) At a  minimum, parties “are at least entitled to discovery sufficient to adequately  arbitrate their statutory claim, including access to essential documents and  witnesses, as determined by the arbitrator(s) . . . .” (Armendariz, supra,  24 Cal.4th at p. 106.) While Rayo argues the arbitration rules at issue do  not provide for depositions and involve “repeat players,” Rayo fails to provide  any authority that establishes these issues create a high degree of substantive  unconscionability. Thus, the court finds Rayo has failed to demonstrate the  subject arbitration provision is substantively unconscionable. Last,  Rayo argues the Song-Beverly Act prohibits the deprivation of Rayo’s right to  bring the present action in court. (Opp., p. 16:21-18:12.) Again, however, Rayo  fails to direct the court to a single citation to California authority that  holds arbitration of Song-Beverly cases is prohibited by California law. Accordingly,  the court GRANTS Hyundai’s motion. CONCLUSION Based on the foregoing, Hyundai’s  motion to compel arbitration of Rayo’s lemon law action is GRANTED. The matter is STAYED  pending completion of binding arbitration. 