 Case Number:  22AHCV01340    Hearing Date:   November 1, 2024    Dept:  P [TENTATIVE] ORDER DENYING
PLAINTIFF’S MOTION TO MODIFY STIPULATION 
I.         INTRODUCTION
This is a lemon law case. Plaintiff
Andy Meraz (“Plaintiff”) commenced this action against Defendant American Honda
Motor Co. (“Defendant”) following Plaintiff’s purchase of a new Honda Accord in
2022. The complaint alleges three causes of action: (1) violation of the
Song-Beverly Act for breach of express warranty, (2) violation of the
Song-Beverly Act for breach of implied warranty, and (3) fraudulent inducement
by concealment.
On December 4, 2023, the Court
granted a Stipulation and Protective Order (“SPO”) in this matter, setting
confidentiality parameters for documents produced during discovery. On October
1, 2024, Plaintiff filed the instant motion to modify the SPO, seeking
permission to use confidential documents from this case in other cases
involving similar allegations. Defendant opposed the modification on October
21, 2024, arguing against extending the SPO’s scope.
 
Meet and Confer
On April 12, 2024, Plaintiff’s counsel sent an email memorializing a
meet-and-confer telephone call that had taken place with Defendant’s counsel
regarding the proposed modification to the Stipulation and Protective Order.
(Motion pg. 4) Accordingly, Plaintiff has complied with the meet-and-confer
requirements.
II.        LEGAL STANDARD
“The court, for good cause shown,
may make any order that justice requires to protect any party or other person
from unwarranted annoyance, embarrassment, or oppression, or undue burden and
expense.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.060, subd. (b).) 
CCP section 128(a)(8) provides the
court with power “[t]o amend and control its process and orders so as to make
them conform to law and justice.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 128(a)(8).) 
III.      ANALYSIS
Plaintiff moves to modify the SPO entered on December 4, 2023, under
Paragraph 9 of the SPO, which allows any party to the proceeding to request a
modification or relief from any provision of the SPO upon giving proper notice
to all parties. (SPO pg. 8) Plaintiff’s request seeks to modify Paragraph 8 of
the SPO to permit the use of confidential materials produced by Defendant in
this case in other cases handled by Plaintiff’s counsel. (Motion pg.3) These
cases involve similar allegations of fraudulent concealment related to the
Honda Sensing and Collision Mitigation Braking Systems in Defendant’s vehicles.
(Id.)
Plaintiff argues that allowing shared access to the discovery materials
across related cases aligns with California public policy favoring efficient
discovery and consumer protection. (Motion pg. 6) Plaintiff relies on Raymond
Handling Concepts Corp. v. Sup. Ct. (1995) 39 Cal.App.4th 584, 590 .and
other California case law, asserting that such modifications are permissible
when confidentiality protections are maintained, and the cases involve similar
claims. (Motion pg.4-6)
Defendant opposes the motion to modify the SPO, arguing that Plaintiff’s
request is overly broad and ambiguous, as it seeks to extend the use of
confidential documents to an undefined number of current and future cases, some
of which may fall outside the Court’s jurisdiction. (Opposition pg.2) Defendant
contends that allowing this access could lead to inconsistent rulings, as other
courts might interpret confidentiality protections differently. (Id.)
Additionally, Defendant asserts that Plaintiff’s motion constitutes an
improper attempt to circumvent procedural requirements, effectively serving as
a motion for reconsideration of the existing SPO. (Opposition pg.6)
In rebutting Plaintiff’s cited authority, Defendant specifically argues
that Raymond Handling Concepts Corp is distinguishable from the present
case. Raymond Handling Concepts Corp. v. Sup. Ct. (1995) 39
Cal.App.4th 584, 590. (Opposition pg.
7) Defendant notes that Raymond included specific safeguards, such as
requiring counsel in other cases to sign stipulations and notifying defense
counsel of any disclosure—protections absent in Plaintiff’s current proposal.
(Id.)
Finally, Defendant contends that Plaintiff’s request risks disclosure of
information irrelevant to specific cases which may unfairly expose Defendant to
disclosure of sensitive proprietary data. (Opposition pg.3) 
The Court agrees with Defendant that Raymond is distinguishable
from the present request by Plaintiff. In Raymond, the modification of
the protective order included specific safeguards, such as requiring counsel to
notify defense counsel upon disclosure and limiting disclosure to attorneys in
similar cases who had signed a stipulation agreeing to be bound by the same
protective order. (Raymond Handling Concepts Corp. v. Sup. Ct.
(1995) 39 Cal.App.4th 584, 590.) These
measures provided defense counsel an opportunity to contest the similarity of
other cases and helped ensure that confidential materials were not misused.
Here, Plaintiff’s proposed modification lacks comparable safeguards.
Granting this modification would leave the Court without mechanisms to prevent
potential misuse of protected materials, risking potential harm to Defendant.
Additionally, such an order may extend beyond this Court’s jurisdiction, as it
seeks to apply the protective order’s terms to undefined future cases without
procedural constraints.
Accordingly, the Court DENIES Plaintiff’s motion to modify the
stipulation and protective order.
IV.       ORDER
            The Court DENIES
Plaintiff’s motion to modify the stipulation and protective order entered on
12/04/23.
            Defendant is to give notice.
             
 Dated: November 1, 2024                                                                 
 
 
             
 JARED D. MOSES  
             JUDGE OF
THE SUPERIOR COURT 