  Case Number:  21GDCV00974    Hearing Date:   November 1, 2024    Dept:  P [TENTATIVE]
ORDER GRANTING DEFENDANT GRANDTAG’S MOTION TO QUASH SERVICE OF SUMMONS AND
FOURTH AMENDED COMPLAINTI.        INTRODUCTION
           Plaintiffs
Futang Ji, Yi-Ching Wu, and Yong Zong (“Plaintiffs”) initiated this action
against Defendants Punta Gorda Acquisitions, LLC, and various affiliated
entities on July 27, 2021. Plaintiffs filed their operative Fourth Amended
Complaint (FrAC) on July 24, 2024, naming as Defendants Punta Gorda
Acquisitions, LLC; Punta Gorda Senior Living, LP dba The Palms of Punta Gorda
Assisted Living; Madison Realty Equities, LLC; GT Madison Realty, LLC; Gary
Langendoen; Grandtag Business Consultants, Ltd.; Jameson Leung; Rene Leung; and
Does 1 through 50, inclusive.
The
FrAC alleges ten causes of action: (1) Breach of Third-Party Beneficiary
Contract; (2) Intentional Misrepresentation; (3) Negligent Misrepresentation;
(4) Conspiracy to Convert Property; (5) Breach of Fiduciary Duty; (6) Violation
of California Business and Professions Code section 17200; (7) Unjust
Enrichment; (8) Conspiracy to Commit Fraud; (9) Fraudulent Transfer; and (10)
Aiding and Abetting Fraud.
On
October 3, 2024, Defendant Grandtag Business Consultants, Ltd. (“Grandtag”)
filed a motion to quash service of summons and the Fourth Amended Complaint.
Plaintiffs filed an opposition to this motion on October 21, 2024. On October
25, Grandtag filed a reply to Plaintiff’s opposition.
 
II.      LEGAL
STANDARD
          Code Civ. Proc. §418.10(a)(1) provides that a defendant, on
or before the last day to plead, may file a motion to quash service of the
summons on the ground of lack of jurisdiction.
          California’s “long-arm” statute provides for jurisdiction
“on any basis not inconsistent with the Constitution of this state or of the United
States.” Code Civ. Proc. §410.10.
          The possible bases for jurisdiction in this state are the
following:
          - Physical presence in the forum when served, aka “gotcha”
jurisdiction; Burnham v. Superior Court (1990) 495 U.S. 604, 612;
          - Domicile in the forum state; Milliken v. Meyer
(1940) 311 U.S. 457, 462;
          - General appearance in the action; Code Civ. Proc.
§410.50(a);
          - Contractual consent/forum selection clause; National
Equipment Rental, Ltd. v. Szukhent (1964) 375 U.S. 311, 315-316;
          - Minimum contacts; International Shoe Co. v. State of
Washington (1945) 326 U.S. 310, 316; Burger King v. Rudzewicz (1985)
471 U.S. 462, 475.
See Weil & Brown, Cal.
Practice Guide: Civil Procedure Before Trial (The Rutter Group 2023), ¶3:131.
Only
a limited set of affiliations with a forum state will render a defendant
amenable to all-purpose jurisdiction there. (Daimler AG v. Bauman (2014)
571 US 117, 137.) “[F]or a¿corporation, it is an equivalent place, one in which
the corporation is¿fairly regarded as at home.” (Ibid.) The paradigm
forums in which a corporation will be considered “at home” and thus subject to
general jurisdiction are (1) its place of incorporation; and (2) its principal
place of business. (Ibid.) The inquiry is not whether the corporation's
contacts with the forum are continuous and systematic, “it is whether that
corporation's affiliations with the State are so continuous and systematic as
to render it essentially at home in the forum State.” (Id. at 138-139.)
The fact that a foreign corporation has an in-state subsidiary or affiliate
does not subject the corporate parent to general jurisdiction in that state. (Id.
at 136;¿see also Young v. Daimler AG¿(2014) 228 Cal.App.4th 855, 866-867
[no general jurisdiction over parent corporation even if plaintiffs reside in
state, accident occurred there, the vehicle was purchased there, and vehicle
was manufactured by defendant's U.S. subsidiary].) 
          Even if a nonresident defendant's “contacts” with California
are not sufficient for general jurisdiction, the defendant may still be subject
to jurisdiction on claims related to its activities there under a specific
jurisdiction analysis. (Walden v. Fiore (2014) 571 U.S. 277, 283.) 
Specific jurisdiction requires a showing of three elements: 1) the defendant
purposefully established contacts with the forum state (purposeful availment);
2) the cause arises out of or is related to defendant’s contacts with the
forum; and 3) the forum's exercise of personal jurisdiction in the particular
case comports with “fair play and substantial justice.” (Burger King Corp.
v. Rudzewicz (1985) 471 US 462, 477-478 [courts follow a “highly realistic”
approach in determining whether a nonresident contracting party “purposefully
established minimum contacts with the forum”]; see Vons Cos., Inc. v.
Seabest Foods, Inc. (1996) 14 Cal.4th 434, 446.) 
          “[I]t is essential in each case that there be some act by
which the defendant purposefully avails itself of the privilege of conducting
activities within the forum State, thus invoking the benefits and protections
of its laws.” (Hanson v. Denckla (1958) 357 U.S. 235, 253.) Courts have
held that the “purposeful availment” requirement will not be satisfied unless
the defendant has taken deliberate action within the forum state or if it has
created continuing obligations to forum residents. (See, e.g., Vons Cos. v.
Seabest Foods, Inc. (1996) 14 Cal.4th 434, 446; Dow Chemical
Canada ULC v. Superior Court (2011) 202 Cal. App. 4th 170, 179.) Moreover,
the plaintiff’s own activities or those of a third party in the forum state are
irrelevant; only the defendant’s activity can form the basis for jurisdiction.
(See Walden v. Fiore (2014) 571 U.S. 277, 291 [“it is the defendant, not
the plaintiff or third parties, who must create contacts with the forum
State.”].)
           
III.     ANALYSIS
General
Jurisdiction 
Defendant moves to quash for lack of general jurisdiction,
arguing that Grandtag is not subject to general jurisdiction in California
because it does not meet the “essentially at home” standard required by the
U.S. Supreme Court. Grandtag asserts that it is a Hong Kong company with its
principal place of business in Hong Kong, lacking any substantial, continuous,
or systematic presence in California. Grandtag further contends that it neither
maintains an office nor conducts business in California, and that mere
associations or investments with entities operating within California are
insufficient to establish general jurisdiction (Motion, pg. 4-5). Grandtag
brings this motion as an out-of-state corporation with an out-of-state
principal place of business, arguing that the motion is properly brought, and
that the burden rests on Plaintiff to establish jurisdiction.
Plaintiff opposes Defendant’s motion and argues that
general jurisdiction over Grandtag is warranted due to its substantial,
continuous, and systematic activities in California. Specifically, Plaintiff
argues that Rene Leung, the manager, and representative of Grandtag has
actively participated in California-based operations by managing GT Madison
Leary, LLC which is headquartered in Pasadena, CA. Plaintiffs contend that Grandtag
maintains a physical presence in California through GT Madison’s Pasadena office
and that Rene Leung, acting on behalf of Grandtag, manages the day-to-day
operations of GT Madison within California. (Opposition, pg. 3) Plaintiffs also
claim that Renee resides in California. (Id.) Plaintiffs also assert
that Grandtag provided a business address on official documents and actively
used California-based processes, such as an assignment for the benefit of
creditors to transfer assets for GT Madison, which Plaintiffs allege was done
to prevent them from accessing assets they claim is theirs. (Opposition, pg.4-5)
 
Specific Jurisdiction
Plaintiffs contend that Grandtag has purposefully
directed its activities toward California and should have reasonably
anticipated being subject to California’s jurisdiction. (Opposition, pg.6) They
argue that Grandtag’s use of California’s assignment of creditors process
demonstrates purposeful availment, asserting that Grandtag used this process to
conceal GT Madison’s assets within California to prevent Plaintiffs from
accessing funds they claim. Plaintiffs further assert that Grandtag has
substantial ties to California through Rene Leung, Grandtag’s authorized
representative, who resides in California and manages business activities on
Grandtag’s behalf. Plaintiffs allege that Leung “likely” maintains Grandtag’s
bank accounts in California. (Id.) Consequently, Plaintiffs argue that
Grandtag’s ties to California support the court’s exercise of specific
jurisdiction in this matter (Opposition, pg.4-6).
In Reply, Grandtag argues that Plaintiffs have not
demonstrated that Grandtag purposefully availed itself of California’s
benefits. (Reply, pg.5) Plaintiffs assert that Grandtag’s California business
address and “personnel” (a single individual, Rene Leung) establish that
Grandtag purposefully availed itself of California’s benefits (Opposition, pg.6).
However, Grandtag contends that these facts are insufficient to establish
specific personal jurisdiction, as the mere use of a mailing address in
California and the residence of one Grandtag officer do not constitute
purposeful availment of the state’s benefits (Reply, pg.5).
The Court finds that Plaintiffs conflate Grandtag’s
role as manager of GT Madison and Grandtag’s own business activities. None of
the evidence submitted by Plaintiffs regarding the activities of GT Madison is
relevant without a foundational connection to Grandtag’s independent operations
within California. Simply put, GT Madison’s presence in California does not
render Grandtag “essentially at home” in the state. Plaintiffs fail to
demonstrate a link between GT Madison’s California-based business activities
and Grandtag specifically, such that any act by GT Madison could be attributed
as a direct action by Grandtag. The fact that Grandtag holds a managerial
position in GT Madison does not imply that Grandtag, a Hong Kong-based company,
has itself established systematic contacts within California (Opposition, pg.4-5).
Additionally, the Court finds that merely asserting
Grandtag’s use of California’s creditor process and speculating that Rene Leung
may maintain a bank account in California for Grandtag falls short of
establishing that Grandtag purposefully availed itself of the forum’s benefits.
This assertion also fails to demonstrate that the present controversy arises
out of any conduct directly attributable to Defendant Grandtag.
Based on the foregoing, Grandtag’s motion to quash
for lack of jurisdiction is GRANTED.
IV.     CONCLUSION
           Accordingly,
Grandtag’s motion to quash for lack of jurisdiction is GRANTED.
Grandtag is to give notice. 
 
Dated:
November 1, 2024                                                              
 
 
 
                                                                                JARED
D. MOSES JUDGE OF THE SUPERIOR COURT
                                                                     