 Case Number:  23AHCV01347    Hearing Date:   November 1, 2024    Dept:  P [TENTATIVE] ORDER SUSTAINING CROSS-DEFENDANT’S  DEMURRER TO CROSS-COMPLAINT IN PARTI.         INTRODUCTION On February 8, 2024, A&B  Plumbing Solutions, Inc. (“A&B”) and William Dodds (“Dodds”) (collectively  “Cross-Complainants”) filed a cross-complaint against Landwin DMV LLC  ("Landwin"), AYS Hospitality ("AYS"), and individuals Sonny  Chen, Jason Chen, and Johnny Chen (collectively “Cross-Defendants”). The  cross-complaint asserts causes of action for: (1) breach of contract as to the  First Subcontract, (2) breach of contract as to the Second Subcontract, (3)  unjust enrichment, (4) declaratory relief, (5) assault, (6) implied indemnity,  and (7) equitable contribution and apportionment. On June 3, 2024, Cross-Defendants  filed a demurrer to the entire cross-complaint. Subsequently, on October 21,  2024, A&B and Dodds filed an opposition, followed by Cross-Defendants’  reply on October 25, 2024.   Meet and Confer Pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure  section 430.41, subdivision (a), the demurring party is required to meet and  confer with the party who filed the pleading at least five days before the  responsive pleading is due. This must occur in person, telephone or by video  conference with the aim of resolving any objections raised in the demurrer.  Additionally, the demurring party must file and serve a declaration detailing  the meet and confer efforts. It should be noted, however, that the failure to  meet and confer is not itself grounds for sustaining or overruling a demurrer  or granting or denying a motion to strike. (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 430.41, subd.  (a)(4), 435.5, subd. (a)(4).) In this case, counsel for  Cross-Defendants sent meet and confer letters on April 19, 2024, and again on  May 20, 2024, via email to Plaintiff’s counsel, Stephen Cho. However,  Plaintiff’s counsel did not respond to either communication. (Kromke Decl., ¶  3, Exhibits A and B.) II.       LEGAL STANDARD A demurrer tests the legal  sufficiency of a complaint. Donabedian v.  Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994. A plaintiff’s allegations  must be accepted as true for purposes of demurrer, no matter how “improbable”  they are. (Del E. Webb Corp. v.  Structural Materials Co. (1981) 123 Cal.App.3d 593, 604 (Del E. Webb).) Allegations need not be  accepted as true if they are contradicted by judicially noticeable facts. (Cansino v. Bank of America (2014) 224  Cal.App.4th 1462, 1474.)  Pleadings are to be broadly  construed (Code Civ. Proc., § 452) and demurrers are to be overruled where the  facts are sufficient to state any cause of action. (Quelimane Co. v. Stewart  Title Guaranty Co. (1998) 19 Cal.4th 26, 38.) Code of Civil Procedure section 430.10, subdivision (f)  provides for a demurrer where a pleading is uncertain. Demurrers for  uncertainty are disfavored and are only sustained where a pleading is so incomprehensible  a defendant cannot reasonably respond. (A.J. Fistes v. GDL Best Contractors,  Inc. (2019) 38 Cal.App.5th 677, 695; Khoury v. Maly’s of California (1993) 14 Cal.App.4th 612, 616.)    III.      ANALYSIS Cross-Defendants demur to each of  the seven causes of action in the Cross-Complaint, which include: (1) Breach of  Contract as to the First Subcontract, (2) Breach of Contract as to the Second  Subcontract, (3) Unjust Enrichment, (4) Declaratory Relief, (5) Assault, (6)  Implied Indemnity, and (7) Equitable Contribution and Apportionment. Cross-Defendants  argue that the allegations are insufficiently pled to state a claim and contend  that the alter ego allegations lack sufficient detail to justify piercing the  corporate veil.   First and Second Cause of Action: Breach of Contract  “The standard elements of a claim  for breach of contract are: ‘(1) the contract, (2) plaintiff’s performance or  excuse for nonperformance, (3) defendant’s breach, and (4) damage to plaintiff  therefrom.’” (Wall Street Network, Ltd. v. New York Times Co. (2008) 164  Cal.App.4th 1171, 1178.)  In the first and second causes of  action, A&B and Dodds allege that Cross-Defendants breached two subcontract  agreements. Under the First Subcontract, A&B claims it is owed $43,000. For  the Second Subcontract, Cross-Complainants assert that Cross-Defendants failed  to make necessary payments, including $61,113.88 owed to Hajoca for supplies  and $65,181.59 owed to A&B, plus retention payments for completed work.  A&B and Dodds contend that these failures constitute a breach of both  subcontracts. (Cross-Complaint pg. 6-7)               Cross-Defendants  argue that these breach of contract claims are improperly asserted against all  defendants, including Landwin DMV, LLC, and individuals Sonny, Jason, and  Johnny Chen. They argue that the Cross-Complaint, specifically paragraphs 26  and 31, acknowledges that A&B entered into contracts solely with AYS  Hospitality, Inc., not with Landwin or the Chens. Cross-Defendants contend that  contractual privity is essential to assert breach claims, and since neither  Landwin nor the Chens were parties to the agreements, they cannot be held  liable for breach. They emphasize that defects on the face of the complaint and  accompanying exhibits warrant dismissal of all defendants except AYS from the  breach of contract claims (Demurrer pg. 12) In opposition, A&B and Dodds  argue that the alter ego doctrine justifies holding all Cross-Defendants  liable. They allege that Johnny, Sonny, and Jason Chen, along with Landwin, are  alter egos of AYS, referring to paragraph 11 of the Cross-Complaint.  Cross-Complainants claim that recognizing the separateness of these entities  and individuals would promote injustice, as they are all effectively one and  the same for the purposes of these contracts (Opposition pg. 4)¿ In their  reply, Cross-Defendants challenge the sufficiency of the alter ego allegations,  arguing that they lack necessary factual detail and are conclusory (Reply pg.  3)¿ Based on the foregoing, the Court  finds that Cross-Complainants have sufficiently pled breach of contract against  all Cross-Defendants in their first and second causes of action. By naming all  defendants, listing the agreements that were allegedly breached, and alleging  alter ego as a basis to extend liability to all Cross-Defendants, A&B and  Dodds have met the pleading requirements at this stage of litigation.  Accordingly, the demurrer is  OVERRULED as to the first two causes of action. Third cause of action: Unjust Enrichment In the third cause of action,  A&B and Dodds allege unjust enrichment, claiming that Cross-Defendants  retained money that rightfully belonged to A&B and Dodds under the First  and Second Subcontractor Agreements. Specifically, A&B and Dodds assert  that they performed the work required by these agreements and would not have  entered into these contracts had they known Cross-Defendants would withhold  payment or instigate related litigation by Hajoca. They allege that  Cross-Defendants have been unjustly enriched in an amount to be determined at  trial (Cross-Complaint ¶¶ 35-39)¿ Cross-Defendants argue in their  demurrer that California does not recognize unjust enrichment as an independent  cause of action. They rely on McBride v. Boughton, which characterizes  unjust enrichment as a principle of restitution rather than a standalone claim  (123 Cal.App.4th 379, 387). Additionally, Cross-Defendants contend that unjust  enrichment cannot be applied where a valid, express contract exists. They argue  that the existence of two written agreements governing the subject matter  precludes any quasi-contract claim, as unjust enrichment generally applies only  in the absence of a valid contract.  In opposition, A&B and Dodds  argue that unjust enrichment is a valid claim under California law when a party  receives and retains a benefit unjustly at another’s expense. They assert that Lecirodryer  v. SeoulBank and similar cases have recognized unjust enrichment, defining  it as the receipt and unjust retention of a benefit (77 Cal.App.4th 723, 726).  Cross-Complainants contend that their unjust enrichment claim is valid despite  the existence of a contract because they are asserting that all Cross-Defendants,  including the alleged alter egos of AYS, were unjustly enriched. Thus, they  argue that the demurrer to this cause of action should be overruled (Opposition  pg. 5)¿ In their reply, Cross-Defendants  maintain that unjust enrichment does not lie where enforceable agreements  govern the disputed amounts, reiterating that unjust enrichment is a  quasi-contract theory applicable only in the absence of a valid contract. (Reply  pg. 4-5) The parties disagree about whether  unjust enrichment is an independent cause of action. While there is conflicting  authority regarding whether there is a cause of action for unjust enrichment in  California, the weight of authority in California is that there is no cause of  action for unjust enrichment.  (See e.g.,  Hill v. Roll Int'l Corp. (2011) 195 Cal.App.4th 1295, 1307; Levine v.  Blue Shield of California (2010) 189 Cal.App.4th 1117, 1138; McKell v.  Washington Mut., Inc. (2006) 142 Cal.App.4th 1457, 1490; Melchior v. New  Line Prods., Inc. (2003) 106 Cal.App.4th 779, 793.)  Accordingly, the demurrer is  SUSTAINED as to the third cause of action without leave to amend. Fourth cause of action: Declaratory Relief In the fourth cause of action,  A&B and Dodds seek declaratory relief to establish the respective rights  and obligations of all Cross-Defendants under the First and Second  Subcontractor agreements. (Cross-Complaint ¶41) They allege an actual controversy  regarding payment obligations, unpaid retention amounts and for attorney’s  fees. (Cross-Complaint ¶¶ 42-43) CCP section 1060 provides that a  person may bring an action for declaratory relief if he or she “desires a  declaration of his or her rights or duties with respect to another, or in  respect to, in, over or upon property . . . .” (Code Civ. Proc., § 1060.) A  request for declaratory relief may be brought alone or with other relief. (See  Id.)   To state a declaratory relief  claim, the plaintiff must allege a proper subject of declaratory relief and an  actual controversy involving justiciable questions relating to the party’s  rights or obligations. (See Jolley v. Chase Home Finance, LLC (2013) 213  Cal.App.4th 872, 909.) The validity of a contract is a proper subject of  declaratory relief. (See Code Civ. Proc., § 1060.)  Cross-Defendants demur to this  cause of action arguing that declaratory relief claim is fundamentally flawed  because the two subcontracts were solely between A&B and AYS Hospitality,  Inc., and do not include Landwin or the Chens as parties. They contend that  declaratory relief can only extend to parties to the contract, and A&B’s  alter ego allegations are insufficiently detailed to support extending  liability to the non-signatories. The Court finds that A&B and  Dodds have adequately pled an actual controversy concerning their rights under  the First and Second Subcontractor Agreements. Although Cross-Defendants  challenge the privity of contract between A&B and the non-signatories, the  alter ego allegations, if proven, could establish a unity of interest that  binds all Cross-Defendants under the same obligations as AYS. At this stage,  the Court is not required to assess the ultimate merits of the alter ego claim  but only to determine whether an actionable controversy has been pled. Accordingly, the Court finds that  A&B’s declaratory relief claim is sufficiently supported to survive demur.  Therefore, the Court OVERRULES demur to the fourth cause of action.  Fifth Cause of Action: Assault A&B and Dodds allege that  Cross-Defendant Jason Chen committed assault during a meeting in late February  or early March 2023. According to Dodds, after leaving a meeting with Sonny  Chen about outstanding payments, he observed Jason Chen swinging a pipe and  banging it on a trashcan. Dodds alleges that Jason then walked toward him in an  aggressive manner, which he interpreted as an imminent threat of harmful  contact. Dodds claims he was harmed as a result, in an amount to be proven at  trial, and that Jason’s conduct was a substantial factor in causing this harm  (Cross-Complaint ¶¶ 45-49). The elements of a cause of action  for assault are: (1) the defendant acted with intent to cause harmful or  offensive contact, or threatened to touch the plaintiff in a harmful or  offensive manner; (2) the plaintiff reasonably believed he was about to be touched  in a harmful or offensive manner or it reasonably appeared to the plaintiff  that the defendant was about to carry out the threat; (3) the plaintiff did not  consent to the defendant's conduct; (4) the plaintiff was harmed; and (5) the  defendant's conduct was a substantial factor in causing the plaintiff's  harm.  (Carlsen v. Koivumaki (2014)  227 Cal.App.4th 879, 890.)  The allegations fail to meet the  fourth and fifth elements required for assault. Dodds does not allege any  specific harm that he suffered because of Jason’s actions, nor is there any  indication of how Jason’s alleged conduct was a substantial factor in causing  harm. The complaint lacks specific facts indicating that Jason’s conduct had a  substantial effect or caused measurable harm. As such, without allegations  sufficient to satisfy the elements of harm and causation, the assault claim is  insufficient to survive a demur. As reflected in the use notes to  CACI 1301, “[t]he tort of assault is complete when the anticipation of harm  occurs.”  Kisesky v. Carpenters’ Trust  for Southern California (1983) 144 Cal. App.3d 222,232.  Also, “[a] civil action for assault is based  upon an invasion of the right of a person to live without being put in fear of  personal harm.” Lowry v. Standard Oil Co. of California (1944) 63 Cal.  App.2d 1, 6-7.  At present,  Cross-Complainant’s cause of action for assault lacks the requisite detail about  the nature of the harm/fear allegedly inflicted. Accordingly, the Court SUSTAINS  Cross-Defendants Demurrer to the fifth cause of action with leave to amend. Sixth cause of action: Implied Indemnity A&B and Dodds seek implied  indemnity from Cross-Defendants, alleging they are entitled to indemnification  for any recovery that Hajoca may obtain against them. Specifically, they assert  that if they are held liable, Cross-Defendants should indemnify them for any  potential settlement amounts, judgments, attorney’s fees, and costs  (Cross-Complaint ¶¶ 52-53). Under California law, implied  indemnity applies where one party is obligated to reimburse another for a loss,  often arising from a legal obligation or equitable principles of fairness. In  this case, the dispute centers on the interpretation of the indemnity  provisions within the subcontract agreements, but since there is a disagreement  over the terms, the Court is limited to examining the allegations within the  cross-complaint itself rather than any extrinsic evidence. Here, A&B and Dodds allege that they are entitled to  indemnification from Cross-Defendants for any liabilities stemming from the  Hajoca claim. (Id.)  This includes  indemnification for any settlement, judgment, or associated litigation costs. (Id.)  The Court finds that these allegations sufficiently plead an implied indemnity  claim, as they establish a potential obligation for Cross-Defendants to cover  losses incurred by A&B and Dodds. Accordingly, the Court OVERRULES  Cross-Defendants Demurrer to the sixth cause of action. Seventh cause of action: Equitable Contribution  A&B and Dodds seek  equitable contribution from Cross-Defendants, asserting that they are entitled  to reimbursements for any financial obligations incurred due to the action of  Cross-Defendants.  Cross-Defendants argue that  equitable contribution is applicable in cases involving joint or shared  liability. They contend that A&B and Dodds have not demonstrated joint or  shared liability with Cross-Defendants under the contracts in question. In reviewing the sufficiency of the  allegations, the Court finds that A&B and Dodds have not sufficiently  established shared or joint liability with Cross-Defendants under the  subcontract agreements. Equitable contribution requires a clear factual basis  showing overlapping obligations or a shared liability. Although A&B and  Dodds reference paragraph 3.2 of the Second Subcontractor Agreement in their  opposition, it remains unclear from the complaint how this provision creates a  shared liability with non-signatory parties like Landwin and the Chens. Without  allegations indicating mutual or joint financial responsibility, the equitable  contribution claim lacks the necessary factual support to proceed. Accordingly, Cross-Defendants’  demurrer to seventh cause of action is SUSTAINED with leave to amend.   Alter Ego  Allegations  “A claim against a defendant, based  on the alter ego theory, is not itself a claim for substantive relief, . . .  but rather, procedural, i.e., to disregard the corporate entity as a distinct  defendant and to hold the alter ego individuals liable on the obligations of  the corporation where the corporate form is being used by the individuals to  escape personal liability, sanction a fraud, or promote injustice.” (Hennessey’s  Tavern, Inc. v. American Air Filter Co. (1988) 204 Cal.App.3d 1351, 1359.)              To invoke the alter ego doctrine, the  plaintiff must plead unity of interest and ownership and that an inequity will  result if the corporate entity is treated as the sole actor. (See Vasey  v. California Dance Co. (1977) 70 Cal.App.3d 742, 749.) Factors to consider  in applying the doctrine include the commingling of funds and other assets, the  holding out by one entity that it is liable for the debts of the other,  identical equitable ownership in the two entities, inadequate capitalization,  and disregard of corporate formalities. (Sonora Diamond Corp. v Superior Court  (2000) 83 Cal.App.4th 523, 538-39.)  The Court finds that A&B and  Dodds have sufficiently alleged alter ego to withstand demurrer at this stage.  To invoke the alter ego doctrine, a plaintiff must demonstrate unity of  interest and ownership and show that inequity would result if the corporate  form were maintained. Here, A&B and Dodds allege that Landwin and AYS are  owned and operated by Sonny, Jason, and Johnny Chen, who commingle assets,  operate these entities as undercapitalized shells, and use corporate assets for  personal benefit. (Cross-Complaint ¶12) They further assert that Landwin and  AYS lack separateness and function merely as instrumentalities for the  individual defendants, and that failing to disregard this structure would  result in injustice by allowing Cross-Defendants to evade liability. (Id.) Cross-Defendants argue that A&B  and Dodds fail to specify how maintaining the corporate form would lead to  injustice. However, A&B and Dodds correctly contend that, at the pleading  stage, they need not provide detailed evidentiary facts but rather only need to  allege a factual basis sufficient to notify Cross-Defendants of their claims.  Given that Cross-Defendants have more access to facts concerning their  corporate operations, requiring further detail at this juncture would be  premature. Accordingly, the Court finds the  alter ego allegations sufficient.   IV.       ORDER             The Court OVERRULES  the demurrer as to the first, second, fourth and sixth causes of action.    The Court SUSTAINS the demurrer as  to the third cause of action for Unjust Enrichment without leave to amend.  The Court sustains the demurrer as to the fifth  cause of action for Assault, with 20 days leave to amend. The Court sustains  the demurrer as to the seventh cause of action for equitable contribution, with  20 days leave to amend. Cross-Defendants are to give  notice.    Dated: November 1, 2024                     JARED D. MOSES                 JUDGE OF THE SUPERIOR COURT 