  Case Number:  23SMCV04746    Hearing Date:   February 1, 2024    Dept:  O Case
Name:  Enamorado v. American Honda
Motor Co., Inc., et al. 



Case No.:


23SMCV04746


Complaint Filed:


10-9-23           




Hearing Date:


2-1-24 


Discovery C/O:


N/A




Calendar No.:


13


Discovery Motion C/O:


N/A




POS:


OK


 Trial Date:


None



SUBJECT:                 DEMURRER WITH MOTION TO STRIKE
MOVING
PARTY:   Defendant American Honda
Motor Co., Inc. 
RESP.
PARTY:         Plaintiff Byron
Enamorado
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
            Defendant
American Honda Motor Co., Inc.’s Demurrer is OVERRULED as to the Plaintiff Byron
Enamorado’s 2nd cause of action for fraudulent inducement –
concealment. Defendant American Honda Motor Co., Inc.’s Motion to Strike
Plaintiff Byron Enamorado’s prayer for punitive damages is DENIED. Plaintiff
Byron Enamorado has successfully pleaded all the elements of a fraudulent
concealment claim including specific facts to meet the heightened pleading
requirement for fraud. The Court finds the economic loss rule does not bar the
Plaintiff’s fraudulent inducement claim at the demurrer stage. Plaintiff Byron
Enamorado has plead enough facts to allege fraudulent inducement against
Defendant American Honda Motor Co., Inc. and thus punitive damages are
appropriately plead. 
  
I.               
Demurrer
 
As
a general matter, in a demurrer proceeding, the defects must be apparent on the
face of the pleading or via proper judicial notice. (Donabedian v.
Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994.) “A demurrer tests
the pleading alone, and not the evidence or facts alleged.” (E-Fab, Inc.
v. Accountants, Inc. Servs. (2007) 153 Cal.App.4th 1308, 1315.) As such,
the court assumes the truth of the complaint’s properly pleaded or implied
factual allegations. (Id.) The only issue a demurrer is concerned with
is whether the complaint, as it stands, states a cause of action. (Hahn v.
Mirda (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747.)
 
“[T]he
elements of a cause of action for fraud based on concealment are: (1) the
defendant must have concealed or suppressed a material fact, (2) the defendant
must have been under a duty to disclose the fact to the plaintiff, (3) the
defendant must have intentionally concealed or suppressed the fact with the
intent to defraud the plaintiff, (4) the plaintiff must have been unaware of
the fact and would not have acted as he did if he had known of the concealed or
suppressed fact, and (5) as a result of the concealment or suppression of the
fact, the plaintiff must have sustained damage.” (Bigler-Engler v. Breg, Inc.
(2017) 7 Cal.App.5th 276, 310–311, citations omitted; see also CACI, 1901.)
 
“In
transactions which do not involve fiduciary or confidential relations,” a duty
to disclose the fact to the plaintiff “may arise in at least three instances:
(1) the defendant makes representations but does not disclose facts which
materially qualify the facts disclosed, or which render his disclosure likely
to mislead; (2) the facts are known or accessible only to defendant, and
defendant knows they are not known to or reasonably discoverable by the
plaintiff; (3) the defendant actively conceals discovery from the plaintiff.” (Warner
Constr. Corp. v. City of Los Angeles (1970) 2 Cal.3d 285, 294.)
 
“[T]he
facts constituting the fraud must be alleged with sufficient specificity to
allow defendant to understand fully the nature of the charge made (Roberts
v. Ball, Hunt, Hart, Brown & Baerwitz (1976) 57 Cal.App.3d 104, 109.) “Fraud
actions against corporations require the plaintiff “to allege the names of the
persons who made the allegedly fraudulent representations, their authority to
speak, to whom they spoke, what they said or wrote, and when it was said or
written.” (Tarmann v. State Farm Mut. Auto. Ins. Co. (1991) 2
Cal.App.4th 153, 157.) However, the specificity requirement is “relaxed when
the allegations indicate that the defendant must necessarily possess full
information concerning the facts of the controversy or when the facts lie more
in the knowledge of the opposite party.” (Ibid., citations omitted.)
 
Plaintiff
Byron Enamorado (“Enamorado”) pleads with sufficient specificity that Defendants
American Honda Motor Co., Inc. (“AHM”) concealed a material fact (Compl., ¶¶ 47–54.).
That AHM had a duty to disclose the concealed fact to Enamorado. (Id., ¶¶19–46.)
That AHM intentionally concealed or suppressed the fact with the intent to defraud
Enamorado. (Id., ¶¶ 72, 73, 116, 124.) That Enamorado was unaware of the
transmission issue and would not have purchased the vehicle had he known the
concealed fact. (Id., ¶¶ 42, 58, 125, 129, 130.) And that Enamorado was
damaged as a result of AHM’s alleged fraudulent concealment. (Id., ¶¶ 127–
131.) 
 
Enamorado
pleads that AHM “drafted, produced, and distributed marketing materials to the
public containing factual representations about the Subject Vehicle enough
specificity to reach the relaxed requirements for specificity,” thus pleading enough
specificity to show AHM possessed the full information concerning the facts of
the controversy. (Compl., ¶¶ 57–59; see Tarmann, supra, 2 Cal.App
4th at p. 157.) 
 
Thus,
the Court finds that Enamorado has successfully plead a cause of action for
fraudulent inducement – concealment. 
 
A.             
Economic Loss Rule
 
“The
economic loss rule requires a purchaser to recover in contract for purely
economic loss due to disappointed expectations, unless he can demonstrate harm
above and beyond a broken contractual promise.” (Robinson Helicopter Co.,
Inc. v. Dana Corp. (2004) 34 Cal.4th 979, 988.) However, “[t]ort damages
have been permitted in contract cases . . . where the contract was fraudulently
induced.” (Id., at 989, citing Erlich v. Menezes (1999)
21 Cal.4th 543, 552.)
“Pending
review and filing of the Supreme Court's opinion, unless otherwise ordered by
the Supreme Court under (3), a published opinion of a Court of Appeal in the
matter has no binding or precedential effect, and may be cited for potentially
persuasive value only. Any citation to the Court of Appeal opinion must also
note the grant of review and any subsequent action by the Supreme Court.” (Cal.
Rules of Court, 8.1115.)
 
AHM
argues that the economic loss rule applies since Enamorado did not allege that
AHM breached any duty independent of the warranty, or that Enamorado suffered
any independent tort loss other than economic loss. (Demurrer, p. 15.) Further,
AHM argues that Dhital v. Nissan N. Am., Inc (2022) 84 Cal.App.5th 828,
a case matching the specifics of the instant case and cited to by Enamorado,
should not be followed because the case is currently under California Supreme
Court review and thus is only persuasive authority (See Cal. Rules of Court,
8.1115.) Enamorado argues that California does not apply the economic loss rule
to fraudulent inducement claims because “unlike tortious conduct in the
performance of a contract, that fraudulent conduct is a violation of an
independent duty that occurs before the contract is ever breached.” (Oppo., at
p. 8.) 
 
 The Court finds that even though Dithal
is not binding authority, there is precedence for fraudulent inducement claims
not being subject to the economic loss rule. (See Robinson Helicopter Co.,
Inc., supra, 34 Cal.4th at p. 991 [“We hold the economic loss rule
does not bar Robinson's fraud and intentional misrepresentation claims because
they were independent of Dana's breach of contract.”]; Erlich, supra,
21 Cal.4th at p. 552; County of Santa Clara v. Atlantic Richfield Co.
(2006) 137 Cal.App.4th 292, 328 [“We believe that the California Supreme
Court's decision in Robinson precludes the application of the economic
loss rule to any intentional affirmative fraud action where the plaintiff can
establish that the fraud exposed the plaintiff to liability.”].) Enamorado has
properly pleaded a claim of fraudulent inducement, and all of Enamorado’s allegations
must be accepted as true on demurrer. (See Yvanova v. New Century Mortgage
Corp. (2016) 62 Cal.4th 919, 924 [“For purposes of reviewing a demurrer, we
accept the truth of material facts properly pleaded in the operative
complaint”].) Thus, the economic loss rule does not bar the 2nd
cause of action for fraudulent inducement – concealment at the demurrer stage. 


            The Court finds that AHM’s Demurrer to the 2nd
cause of action is OVERRULED.
 
 
II.            
Motion to Strike
 
“In
an action for the breach of an obligation not arising from contract,
where it is proven by clear and convincing evidence that the defendant has been
guilty of oppression, fraud, or malice, the plaintiff, in addition to
the actual damages, may recover damages for the sake of example and by way of
punishing the defendant.” (Civ. Code, § 3294, subd., (a) emphasis added.) “With
respect to a corporate employer, the advance knowledge and conscious disregard,
authorization, ratification or act of oppression, fraud, or malice must be on
the part of an officer, director, or managing agent of the corporation.” (Id.,
subd., (b).) (3) ‘”Fraud’ means an intentional misrepresentation, deceit, or
concealment of a material fact known to the defendant with the intention on the
part of the defendant of thereby depriving a person of property or legal rights
or otherwise causing injury.” (Id., subd., (c)(3).)
 
“[E]ven
though certain language pleads ultimate facts or conclusions of law, such
language when read in context with the facts alleged as to defendants' conduct
may adequately plead the evil motive requisite to recovery of punitive
damages.” (Monge v. Superior Ct., (1986)176 Cal. App. 3d 503, 510.) Furthermore,
“[m]alice and oppression may be inferred from the circumstances of a
defendant's conduct.” (Id., at p. 511.)
 
Enamorado
has alleged sufficient specific facts to plead AHM committed a fraudulent
inducement by concealment in an action separate from the contract. Enamorado
has further pleaded sufficient facts to support a claim for punitive damages against
AHM, a corporate entity, because the allegations include that AHM authorized or
ratified the actions of corporate employees (Compl., ¶ 7.) Enamorado has
alleged that AHM had knowledge of the Transmission Defect that is present in
thousands of vehicles, including Enamorado’s, and chose to conceal the defect
for years to the detriment of its consumers. (Compl., ¶¶ 11-40.) 
 
Thus,
the Court finds there are adequate grounds for punitive damages because
allegations of fraud are properly pleaded. AHM’s Motion to Strike is DENIED.