 Case Number:  20STCV39556    Hearing Date:   June 4, 2024    Dept:  T Motion for Summary JudgmentMoving Party:                  Defendant Temple Israel of
HollywoodenResponding Party:          Plaintiff
Teresa Sorensen
Tentative Ruling:  Denied
BACKGROUND
On October 6, 2023, Defendant filed this motion for summary
judgment. On March 19, 2024, Southern California Edison filed a joinder. On May
21, 2024, Plaintiff filed an opposition. On May 30, 2024, Defendant filed a
reply. 
EVIDENTIARY OBJECTIONS
The Court declines to rule on Defendant’s objections to
Plaintiff’s evidence. While the Court “must” rule on all evidentiary objections
made at the summary judgment stage, it is permitted to focus its attention on
those which are “important.” (See Reid v. Google, Inc. (2010) 50 Cal.4th 512,
532; see also Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (q) [the court need only rule
those objections to evidence that were material in the disposition of the
MSJ].)  The Court did not rely on
Plaintiff’s evidence as the burden did not shift, and thus, need not rule on
the objections.
LEGAL STANDARD
                The
purpose of a motion for summary judgment or summary adjudication “is to provide
courts with a mechanism to cut through the parties’ pleadings in order to
determine whether, despite their allegations, trial is in fact necessary to
resolve their dispute.”  (Aguilar v.
Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 843.)  “Code of Civil Procedure section 437c,
subdivision (c), requires the trial judge to grant summary judgment if all the
evidence submitted, and ‘all inferences reasonably deducible from the evidence’
and uncontradicted by other inferences or evidence, show that there is no
triable issue as to any material fact and that the moving party is entitled to
judgment as a matter of law.”  (Adler v.
Manor Healthcare Corp. (1992) 7 Cal.App.4th 1110, 1119.)
                “On a
motion for summary judgment, the initial burden is always on the moving party
to make a prima facia showing that there are no triable issues of material
fact.”  (Scalf v. D. B. Log Homes, Inc.
(2005) 128 Cal.App.4th 1510, 1519.)  A
defendant moving for summary judgment or summary adjudication “has met his or
her burden of showing that a cause of action has no merit if the party has
shown that one or more elements of the cause of action . . . cannot be
established, or that there is a complete defense to the cause of action.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c(p)(2).)  “Once the defendant . . . has met that
burden, the burden shifts to the plaintiff . . . to show that a triable issue of
one or more material facts exists as to the cause of action or a defense
thereto.”  (Id.)  “If the plaintiff cannot do so, summary
judgment should be granted.”  (Avivi v.
Centro Medico Urgente Medical Center (2008) 159 Cal.App.4th 463, 467.)
                As a
general rule, in reviewing the evidence presented on summary judgment, the
moving party’s evidence is strictly construed and the opposing party’s evidence
is liberally construed. (See, e.g., Binder v. Aetna Life Insurance Company
(1999) 75 Cal.App.4th 832; Brantley v. Pisaro (1996) 42 Cal.App.4th 1591.)
“When deciding whether to grant summary judgment, the court must consider all
of the evidence set forth in the papers (except evidence to which the court has
sustained an objection), as well as all reasonable inferences that may be drawn
from that evidence, in the light most favorable to the party opposing summary
judgment.”  (Avivi, 159 Cal.App.4th at
467; Code Civ. Proc., §437c(c).)
DISCUSSION
Defendant moves for summary judgment as to Plaintiff’s
causes of action for negligence and premises liability, arguing that: (1) any
dangerous condition was open and obvious; (2) Defendants did not have actual or
constructive notice of a dangerous condition; and (3) Plaintiff cannot prove
causation. 
  The elements of a
premises liability and negligence cause of action are the same: duty, breach,
causation and damages.  (Castellon v.
U.S. Bancorp (2013) 220 Cal.App.4th 994, 998.) 
“The owner of premises is under a duty to exercise ordinary care in the
management of such premises in order to avoid exposing persons to an
unreasonable risk of harm.  A failure to
fulfill this duty is negligence.” 
(Brooks v. Eugene Burger Management Corp. (1989) 215 Cal.App.3d 1611,
1619; Annocki v. Peterson Enterprises, LLC (2014) 232 Cal.App.4th 32, 37.)                 
I.             Open and
Obvious
“As a general rule, an owner or possessor of land owes no
duty to warn of obvious dangers on the property.” (Christoff v. Union Pacific
Railroad Co. (2005) 134 Cal.App.4th 118, 126.) “‘Generally, if a danger is so
obvious that a person could reasonably be expected to see it, the condition
itself serves as a warning, and the landowner is under no further duty to
remedy or warn of the condition.” (Kinsman v. Unocal Corp. (2005) 37 Cal.4th
659, 673.)
But the obvious character of the condition does¿not negate a property owner’s duty of care to remedy a conspicuous danger when it is
foreseeable that a person will encounter the danger despite the danger’s obviousness.¿
(Martinez v.¿Chippeqa¿Enterprises, Inc.¿(2004) 121 Cal.App.4th 1179,
1185 (indicating a dangerous condition encountered on a sole access way from
the street to the defendant’s building would not negate the
defendant’s duty of care owed to the plaintiff;¿see also¿Osborn v. Mission Ready Mix¿(1990) 224 Cal.App.3d 104, 123 (finding an employee
did not assume the risk of an obvious danger when¿the
employee’s employment required him to encounter a
dangerous condition).)¿ 
Defendant argues it owed no duty to warn of the manhole and
the concrete square surrounding it because it was open and obvious. Defendant
presents evidence that Plaintiff had been to the Premises on numerous
occasions. (UMF No. 4) The manhole and the surrounding concrete square are
located within a clearly delineated parking space (not a sidewalk). (UMF No.
23) Defendant argues there is a visible elevation difference in one corner of
the concrete square surrounding the manhole and the concrete square and the
surrounding asphalt. (UMF No. 12-13, 24; Ex. 3, 4, 5) Defendant argues
that Plaintiff’s inability to recall where she was looking prior to her does
not mean the manhole was not open and obvious. (See UMF No. 19). Further,
Defendant claims that Plaintiff's testimony demonstrates that she was not
paying attention to where she was placing her feet or what she was doing when
she fell. (See UMF No. 14-19). The photographic evidence of the alleged
condition establishes that it was open and obvious and that Plaintiff would
have seen it had she been paying attention. 
Defendant has not met its burden on summary judgment to show
the condition was open and obvious. First, the court has reviewed Exhibits 3-5,
the photos submitted, and it does not appear that the concrete square is
raised; rather, it appears leveled with the ground. This shows that the alleged
dangerousness of the condition was camouflaged and not open and obvious.
Moreover, most of the alleged defects of the property appear to blend in and
are similar shades of grey and black. Further, the fact that the alleged
dangerous condition was in a delineated parking space means that even though
Plaintiff had been there numerous times (albeit in a timespan of 10 years),
more likely than not, the condition was covered by a vehicle parked there.
Again, this tends to show the condition was not open and obvious. In addition,
it appears that Plaintiff had parked her car there on the date of the incident,
and she approached her vehicle from behind. (Plaintiff Depo., pg. 71:9-23; pg.
72:25 through pg. 73:1-7.) The alleged dangerous condition was around the
center of Plaintiff’s vehicle. (Id., pg. 28:1-11.) Again, the condition was
partially covered by her vehicle, and therefore not open and obvious.
Moreover, the obvious character of the condition does¿not negate a property owner’s duty of care to remedy a conspicuous danger when it is
foreseeable that a person will encounter the danger despite the danger’s obviousness. The fact that the dangerous condition was in the
parking spot where a person exits their vehicle makes it foreseeable a person
will encounter it. Thus, as Defendant failed to meet its burden, the burden
does not shift to Plaintiff.
II.            Notice
“A plaintiff alleging injuries based on a dangerous
condition must prove the defendant¿either:
(1) created the dangerous condition, or (2)¿knew
or should have known of the dangerous condition.”¿ (See¿Peralta v. Vons Companies, Inc.¿(2018) 24 Cal.App.5th 1030,
1036; see also¿Ortega v.
Kmart Corp.¿(2001) 26
Cal.4th 1200, 1206.)¿¿
While an owner of premises is not an insurer of the safety
of its patrons, the owner still owes them a duty to exercise reasonable care in
keeping the premises reasonably safe. 
(Ortega v. Kmart Corp., supra 26 Cal.4th at 1205.)  For example, a “store owner exercises
ordinary care by making reasonable inspections of the portions of the premises
open to customers, and the care required is commensurate with the risks
involved.”  (Ibid.)  The exercise of ordinary care may require the
owner to take greater precautions or to make more frequent inspections, but
ultimately, the owner must use the care required of a reasonably prudent person
acting under the same circumstances. 
(Ibid.)   
To establish liability for negligence, “[t]here must be some
evidence . . . to support the conclusion that the condition had existed long
enough for the proprietor, in the exercise of reasonable care, to have
discovered and remedied it.”  (Girvetz v.
Boys’ Market (1949) 91 Cal.App.2d 827, 829; Ortega, supra, 26 Cal.4th at p.
1206 [the owner must have had actual or constructive knowledge of the dangerous
condition or have had the ability, through the exercise of ordinary care, to
discover it, and sufficient time to correct it].)  “The plaintiff need not show actual knowledge
where evidence suggests that the dangerous condition was present for a
sufficient period of time to charge the owner with constructive knowledge of
its existence.”  (Ortega, supra, 26
Cal.4th at p. 1206.) 
“The exact time the condition must exist before it should,
in the exercise of reasonable care, have been discovered and remedied, cannot
be fixed, because, obviously, it varies according to the circumstances.”  (Louie v. Hagstrom’s Food Stores (1947) 81
Cal.App.2d 601, 608.)  Typically, the
question of whether a condition existed so long as to be discoverable within a
reasonable time is a question of fact to be decided by the jury.  (Hatfield v. Levy Bros. (1941) 18 Cal.2d 798,
807; Tuttle v. Crawford (1936) 8 Cal.2d 126, 130; Rothschild v. Fourth &
Market St. Realty Co. (1934) 139 Cal.App. 625, 627.)  However, if there is no substantial evidence
from which it can be reasonably inferred that the condition existed for a
sufficient period of time to charge the defendant with constructive notice of
its presence and to remedy the condition, a defendant may be entitled to
judgment as a matter of law.  (Perez v.
Ow (1962) 200 Cal.App.2d 559, 562.)
Here, Defendant also moves for summary judgment on grounds
Plaintiff cannot show it had notice of the dangerous condition. Defendant
produces evidence that the premises has been leased to Spectrum since 2000.
(UMF No. 2-3). Lessee Spectrum conducted monthly inspections of the parking
area, including the parking spot wherein the manhole was located, and never
noticed any dangerous conditions. (Frank Gordon Depo at 20:18- 21:9,
101:20-24.) In fact, Spectrum’s Facilities Coordinator who conducted the monthly
inspections of the property indicated that he did not believe that the
elevation difference was a dangerous condition. (Gordon Depo at 68:19-24.)
Plaintiff’s claim is the first notice ever provided to Defendant of an alleged
dangerous condition in that parking area. (Id.) 
The Court finds Defendant’s evidence is sufficient to show
that Defendant did not have actual notice of the dangerous condition.  However, the Court finds Defendant has failed
to demonstrate that, as a matter of law, it should be found to have lacked
constructive notice.   Defendant has
failed to show that, as a matter of law, it conducted reasonable inspections
and constructive knowledge cannot be found. 
Defendant has not conducted any inspections itself. Moreover, although
Defendant cites to Gordon’s testimony for the assertion that Spectrum did not
identify any dangerous condition in the area. The cited testimony does not say
that Spectrum did not identify any dangerous condition in the area. (see Gordon
Depo at 20:18- 21:9, 101:20-24.) Further, Defendant’s own evidence shows that
Gordon did not consider the height differential to be dangerous. As a result,
there are questions as to whether the inspections were reasonable at all. Next,
Defendant provides no authority which would show that Spectrum’s monthly
inspections were reasonable in light of the fact that the parking lot is open
to customers of Spectrum and other business invitees, potentially triggering a
need for more frequent inspections. Whether the dangerous condition has existed
long enough for a reasonably prudent person to have discovered it thus remains
a question of fact for the factfinder. 
As a result, Defendant is not entitled to summary judgment on this
basis.
III.           Causation

In order to “demonstrate actual or legal causation, the
plaintiff must show that the defendant’s act or omission was a ‘substantial
factor or omission’ in bringing about the injury.” (Saelzler v. Advanced Group
400 (2001) 25 Cal.4thh 763, 774.) “A substantial factor in causing harm is a
factor that a reasonable person would consider to have contributed to the harm.
It must be more than a remote or trivial factor.” (Mayes v. Bryan (2006) 139
Cal.App.4thh 1075, 1095, citing CACI No. 430.) “Conduct is not a substantial
factor in causing harm if the same harm would have occurred without that
conduct.” (Ibid.) “ ‘ “The plaintiff must introduce evidence which affords a
reasonable basis for the conclusion that it is more likely than not that the
conduct of the defendant was a cause in fact of the result. A mere possibility
of such causation is not enough; and when the matter remains one of pure
speculation or conjecture, or the probabilities are at best evenly balanced, it
becomes the duty of the court to direct a verdict for the defendant.” ’ ”
(Leyva v. Garcia (2018) 20 Cal.App.5th 1095, 1104, citing Ortega v. Kmart Corp.
(2001) 26 Cal.4th 1200, 1205-1206.) 
In Beuhler v. Alpha Beta Company (1990) 224 Cal.App.3d 729,
734, the Court held that “Conjecture that the floor might have been too
slippery at the location where appellant happened to fall is mere speculation
which is legally insufficient to defeat a summary judgment. Accordingly, all
appellant can argue is that she slipped and fell…She did not see anything on
the floor which caused her to slip and fall and did not know what caused her to
slip. In such a situation, ‘[n]egligence is never presumed.’ Nor did the facts
here indicate negligence, either directly or indirectly through any
circumstances from which it might be inferred. The trial court properly found
that no triable issue of any material fact existed and that respondent was
entitled to summary judgment as a matter of law.” (Id.)
Here, Defendant also argues that Plaintiff’s evidence as to
the cause of the fall is speculative. Defendant argues that Plaintiff concedes
that she does not know what caused her fall, whether she tripped, or whether
she slipped, or whether her flip flop hit something causing her to fall. (UMF
No. 14.) Defendant contends that Plaintiff admits she did not know how the
crack caused her to fall or what it was about the crack in the ground that
caused her to fall. (UMF No. 17.) There were no other witnesses to her fall.
(UMF No. 21.) Defendant argues that Plaintiff’s self- serving baseless
speculation that a crack in the concrete caused her fall is not supported by a
scintilla of evidence. Indeed, Defendant continues, Plaintiff could have
tripped on her own flip-flops, lost her footing due to her carelessness, or may
have suffered a medical condition that caused her to fall. 
Defendant has not met its burden on summary judgment to show
there are no triable issues of material fact as to whether Plaintiff’s evidence
of causation is speculative. This case is not like Beuhler. The Court there
specifically stated the facts did not indicate negligence, either directly or
indirectly through any circumstances from which it might be inferred. (Id.)
Further, in Beuhler, the plaintiff did not see anything on the floor after she
fell. Here, there is evidence of the alleged dangerous condition exactly where
Plaintiff fell. Further, Defendant’s evidence only shows that Plaintiff did not
know the mechanics of how she fell, not that she did not know the cause.
Plaintiff testified that the crack in the concrete was the cause of her fall
(Plaintiff Depo., pg. 77:4-21); this is not speculative. Defendant is not
entitled to summary judgment.
CONCLUSION
  Defendant’s motion for summary judgment is DENIED.  Defendant Southern California Edison’s
Joinder is DENIED.  Plaintiff to give notice..
 
 