  Case Number:  21BBCV00674    Hearing Date:   October 4, 2024    Dept:  NCB  Superior Court of CaliforniaCounty of Los AngelesNorth Central DistrictDepartment B  DBIK CONSTRUCTION & DESIGN, INC.,                        Plaintiff,            v. FOUR JOY INVESTMENT LLC,                        Defendants. Case No.: 21BBCV00674   Hearing Date:  October 4, 2024  [TENTATIVE] ORDER RE:DEMURRER; MOTION TO STRIKE BACKGROUNDA.   Allegations            Plaintiff DBIK Construction & Design, Inc. (“DBIK”) alleges that it entered into a construction agreement with Defendant Four Joy Investment LLC on April 30, 2019, in which DBIK agreed to provide certain improvements to real property located at 1200 E Huntington Dr., Duarte, CA 91010 including the renovation of the exterior and roof of a 67-unit hotel building, the exterior renovation of a separate 8-unit commercial building, and landscaping of the entire property.  In exchange, Defendants agreed to pay Plaintiff a total of $945,000.  In the next 4 months, structural safety concerns were discovered with respect to the commercial building, which necessitated the addition of a central column in the building and other design changes.  During the construction, supervision costs escalated due to increased scope of work, COVID-19 pandemic challenges, involvement of third-party contractors hired by Four Joy Investment LLC, etc.  DBIK alleges that for the additional supervision, it is entitled to a project management fee of $828,823.31, or approximately 20%.  DBIK alleges that the total change order between the parties increased the contract amount by $3,899,454.44, resulting in an adjusted contract amount of $4,844,454.44.  DBIK alleges it made a demand for $4,844,454.44 and Defendants have failed to pay $1,776,084.08 of that amount.               The complaint, filed July 30, 2021, alleges causes of action for: (1) breach of contract; (2) open book account; (3) account stated; (4) reasonable value of labor and materials furnished; and (5) foreclosure of mechanic’s lien.            On October 1, 2021, DBIK filed an Amendment to Complaint, naming Doe 1 as “Four Joy One LLC a California limited liability company.”  On October 8, 2021, DBIK filed an Amendment to Complaint, correcting the name of “Four Joy Investment LLC, a California Corporation” to “Four Joy Investment LLC, a California Limited Liability Company.”             On October 24, 2023, DBIK dismissed without prejudice Four Joy One LLC as to the complaint.B.    Cross-ComplaintsOn July 11, 2022, Cross-Complainants DBIK and Danny Hung Cheng filed a cross-complaint against Cross-Defendants Angel Development, Inc., N Pro Electric, and Albert Harding Butcher Jr. dba Harding Construction for: (1) implied indemnity; (2) contribution and indemnity; (3) declaratory relief; and (4) negligence.  On September 21, 2023, the default of N Pro Electric, Inc. was entered upon the request of DBIK and Cheng.  On August 22, 2024, Cross-Complainants named New Sunrise Building, Inc. as Moe 1; R&S Rain Gutters Sheet Metal as Moe 2; Iron Dragon Manufacturing, Inc. as Moe 3; Mage Group Inc. as Moe 4 (updated from “Mage USA Group” on September 4, 2024); JFE HVAC Inc. as Moe 5; and California Garvey Glass and Awnings, Inc. as Moe 6.  On January 20, 2023, Four Joy Investment, LLC filed a cross-complaint against Cross-Defendant Angel Development, Inc. for: (1) intentional misrepresentation (fraud/deceit); (2) negligent misrepresentation; (3) breach of contract; (4) breach of implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing; (5) negligence; and (6) recovery of payments made to unlicensed subcontractors pursuant to Business & Professions Code, § 7031(b).  That same day, Four Joy Investment, LLC filed an Amendment to Cross-Complaint naming Roe 1 as DC International Design & Construction, Inc.On July 9, 2024, Cross-Complainants Four Joy Investment, LLC and Four Joy One, LLC (“Four Joy Entities”) filed a Second Amended Cross-Complaint (“Four Joy SAXC”) against Cross-Defendants DBIK, “Danny” Hung Cheng, and DC International Design & Construction, Inc. for: (1) violation of Business & Professions Code, §§ 7125.2 and 7031(b) (disgorgement action against unlicensed contractor); (2) violation of Business & Professions Code, § 7160 (statutory fraud by unlicensed contractor); (3) (deceit) intentional misrepresentation; (4) deceit (negligent misrepresentation); (5) negligence; and (6) violation of Business & Professions Code, § 17200 et seq.  C.    Motions on CalendarOn August 12, 2024, Cross-Defendants/Cross-Complainants DBIK Construction & Design, Inc. and Danny Hung Cheng filed a demurrer to the Four Joy SAXC.  They concurrently filed a motion to strike portions of the Four Joy SAXC.On September 3, 2024, Four Joy Entities filed opposition briefs.On September 6, 2024, DBIK and Cheng filed reply briefs.REQUEST FOR JUDICIAL NOTICE            With the opposition papers, Four Joy Entities submitted requests for judicial notice of the Four Joy SAXC filed July 9, 2024.  The request is granted.  (Evid. Code, § 452(d).) DISCUSSION RE DEMURRER            DBIK and Cheng demur to the 2nd, 3rd, 4th, and 6th causes of action in the Four Joy SAXC. A.   2nd cause of action for Violation of Business & Professions Code, § 7160 (statutory fraud by unlicensed contractor)Business & Professions Code, § 7160 states: “Any person who is induced to contract for a work of improvement, including but not limited to a home improvement, in reliance on false or fraudulent representations or false statements knowingly made, may sue and recover from such contractor or solicitor a penalty of five hundred dollars ($500), plus reasonable attorney's fees, in addition to any damages sustained by him by reason of such statements or representations made by the contractor or solicitor.” To allege a cause of action for fraud, the requisite elements are: (1) a representation, usually of fact, which is false; (2) knowledge of its falsity; (3) intent to defraud; (4) justifiable reliance upon the misrepresentation; and (5) damage resulting from that justifiable reliance.  (Stansfield v. Starkey (1990) 220 Cal. App. 3d 59, 72-73.)  This cause of action is a tort of deceit and the facts constituting each element must be alleged with particularity; the claim cannot be saved by referring to the policy favoring liberal construction of pleadings.  (Committee on Children's Television, Inc. v. General Foods Corp. (1983) 35 Cal.3d 197, 216.)  Since the claim must be pleaded with particularity, the cause of action based on misrepresentations must allege facts showing how, when, where, to whom, and by what means the misrepresentations were tendered.  (Stansfield v. Starkey (1990) 220 Cal.App.3d 59, 73.)DBIK and Cheng demur to the 2nd cause of action, arguing that Four Joy Entities have not alleged sufficient, specific facts regarding fraud to support a claim under Business & Professions Code, § 7160.  In the reply brief, they argue that section 7160 only applies to home improvement businesses and not to commercial construction projects. In the 2nd cause of action, Four Joy Entities allege that in February to April 2019, during the course of solicitation and negotiation of the engagement to be general contractors on the remodel of the Duarte property, DBIK and DC International (“DCI”) (acting through Cheng, alter ego) misrepresented to Four Joy Investment orally with Nancy Ning Ding (Four Joy Investment’s managing member) that: Cheng, DBIK, and DCI were general contractors able to legally do business in California; Cheng owned and operated DBIK and DCI, which were fully licensed and insured; Cheng would actively manage a properly-insured and licensed crew of workers and subcontractors; Cheng would be readily available to ownership throughout the construction process; Cheng would look out for Four Joy Investment and Tom Tiu Lu and Ms. Ding’s interests, would provide excellent work quality, and provide honest and reputable work; and written contracts and change orders were not required.  (Four Joy SAXC, ¶45.)  Four Joy Entities allege that Cheng’s (and DBIK/DCI) representations were knowingly false when made and that Four Joy Investment reasonably relied on the representations since Mr. Lu and Ms. Ding were Chinese immigrants who do not speak or read English, while Cheng is fully bilingual and claimed to do successful commercial projects.  (Id., ¶¶46-47.) The SAXC sufficiently alleges the nature of the misrepresentation.  Four Joy Entities allege that Cheng (as alter ego of DBIK and DCI) orally represented to Four Joy Investment through Ms. Ding (managing member) in person by face-to-face conversations and over the telephone in the City of Duarte in the months from February to April 2019 facts that Cheng, DBIK, and DCI were licensed and insured, would be readily available, provide excellent work quality, etc.  (Id., ¶45.)  This addresses how, when, where, to whom, and by what means the misrepresentations were tendered.  Four Joy Entities also allege facts (which must be taken as true at the demurrer stage) that Mr. Lu and Ms. Ding reasonably relied on the representations because they were Chinese immigrants, Cheng was bilingual, and Cheng represented that written contracts and change orders were not required as they did not do it that way in America, and Cheng represented he had successfully done massive construction projects in the past.  (Id., ¶¶17-18, 45, 47.)  Accepting the truth of the allegations at the pleading stage, the Court finds that the misrepresentation alleged in the 2nd cause of action is sufficiently pled with the requisite specificity.However, as pointed out by DBIK and Cheng in the reply brief, section 7160 is categorized under the Business and Professions Code, Division 3 (Profession and Vocations Generally), Chapter 9 (Contractors), Article 10 (Home Improvement Business).  “A home improvement contractor, including a swimming pool contractor, is a contractor as defined and licensed under this chapter who is engaged in the business of home improvement either full time or part time.”  (Bus. & Prof. Code, § 7150.1.)  “Home improvement” means the “repairing, remodeling, altering, converting, or modernizing of, or adding to, residential property, as well as the reconstruction, restoration, or rebuilding of a residential property that is damaged or destroyed by a natural disaster for which a state of emergency is proclaimed … and shall include, but not be limited to, the construction, erection, installation, replacement, or improvement of driveways, swimming pools, including spas and hot tubs, terraces, patios, awnings, storm windows, solar energy systems, landscaping, fences, porches, garages, fallout shelters, basements, and other improvements of the structures or land which is adjacent to a dwelling house. ‘Home improvement’ shall also mean the installation of home improvement goods or the furnishing of home improvement services.”  (Bus. & Prof. Code, § 7151(a) [emphasis added].)  Based on the code, it does not appear that section 7160 is a proper section upon which Four Joy Entities may sue DBIK and Cheng.  They have not alleged that the construction project at issue involved a residential property. For this reason, the demurrer to the 2nd cause of action is sustained.  The Court will allow limited leave to amend so that Four Joy Entities may allege a proper code section to bring this cause of action, if there is an alternate statute upon which they can rely.    B.    3rd cause of action for intentional misrepresentationIn the 3rd cause of action, Four Joy Entities allege that DBIK, Cheng, and DCI made representations of fact and half-truths (and corresponding nondisclosures), which were knowingly false.  (Four Joy SAXC, ¶52.)  They allege that DBIK, Cheng, and DCI intended that Four Joy Entities rely on the representations in considering whether to hire DBIK, DCI, and Cheng as general contractors, and Four Joy Entities justifiably relied on representations.  (Id., ¶¶53-54.) DBIK and Cheng demur to the 3rd cause of action, arguing that the misrepresentation has not been specifically pled, the SAXC fails to allege justifiable reliance, and the SAXC fails to allege that DBIK and Cheng were aware or had knowledge of the falsity of their misrepresentations.  However, as discussed above, the Court finds that the SAXC alleges the facts of how, when, where, to whom, and by what means the misrepresentations were tendered, as well as the element of justifiable reliance.  With respect to knowledge of falsity, Four Joy Entities allege facts showing that DBIK and DCI were unlicensed from the commencement and entire duration of the project for their failure to obtain worker’s compensation insurance for the work crew and that DBIK/Cheng falsely represented that they did not have any employees to avoid the worker’s compensation requirement when they in fact their licensed subcontractors and workers were de facto employees.  (See id., ¶¶32, 37-38, 43.)  At the pleading stage, there are sufficient allegations of fraud to withstand a demurrer.  As such, the demurrer to the 3rd cause of action is overruled.C.    4th cause of action for negligent misrepresentationTo allege a cause of action for negligent misrepresentation, the requisite elements are: (1) a misrepresentation of a past or existing material fact; (2) without reasonable grounds for believing it to be true; (3) with intent to induce another's reliance on the fact misrepresented; (4) ignorance of the truth and justifiable reliance thereon by the party to whom the misrepresentation was directed; and (5) damages.  (B.L.M. v. Sabo & Deitsch (1997) 55 Cal. App. 4th 823, 834.)  Negligent misrepresentation, unlike fraud, does not require knowledge of falsity.  (Apollo Capital Fund, LLC v. Roth Capital Partners, LLC (2007) 158 Cal.App.4th 226, 243.)  However, like fraud, “[e]ach element in a cause of action for. . . negligent misrepresentation must be factually and specifically alleged.”  (Cadlo v. Owens-Illinois, Inc. (2004) 125 Cal.App.4th 513, 519.)The 4th cause of action alleges similar fact as the 3rd cause of action.  (See Four Joy SAXC, ¶¶58-61.)  For the same reasons discussed above, the demurrer to the 4th cause of action is overruled. D.   6th cause of action for violation of Business & Professions Code, § 17200 et seq.DBIK and Cheng demur to the 6th cause of action, arguing that it fails to allege sufficient facts of unlawful, unfair, and/or fraudulent conduct for the same reasons discussed above regarding fraud. However, as discussed above, there are sufficient allegations regarding fraud.  As such, the demurrer to the 6th cause of action is overruled. DISCUSSION RE MOTION TO STRIKE            DBIK and Cheng move to strike allegations in the Four Joy SAXC at page 2:25-27, page 3:17-25, paragraphs 5(b)-(e), page 4:28, page 5:16, paragraph 15, paragraph 18 and 18(a)-(c), page 11:24, page 12:9-10, paragraph 30, paragraphs 33-36, paragraphs 39-43, page 21:16-18, paragraphs 68-69, page 26:21, and page 27:19-20, arguing they constitute irrelevant, false, and improper matter. A.   Alter Ego            Four Joy Entities must factually allege that there is “a unity of interest and ownership between the corporation and its equitable owner that the separate personalities of the corporation and the shareholder do not in reality exist.  Second, there must be an inequitable result if the acts in question are treated as those of the corporation alone.” (Sonora Diamond Corp. v. Superior Court (2000) 83 Cal.App.4th 523, 526.)            Paragraph 15 alleges that DBIK, DCI, and Cheng are alter egos of the other, that a unity of interest existed between them, and that adherence to the fiction of separate entities would be inequitable and promote fraud.  Four Joy Entities allege that Cheng controlled DBIK and DCI and that DBIK and DCI are mere shells and shams with inadequate capital and assets to be used by Cheng as a device to avoid individual liability.  (Four Joy SAXC, ¶15(a)-(b).)  Four Joy Entities allege that DBIK and DCI’s activities and business were carried out without any properly noticed directors/shareholders meetings, no records or minutes, or other corporate formalities.  (Id., ¶15(c).)  They allege that Cheng used DBIK and DCI’s assets for personal use without adequate consideration.  (Id., ¶15(d).)  Four Joy Entities allege that Cheng, DBIK, and DCI failed to maintain adequate insurance and falsely and illegally mischaracterized their “independent contractors” to exploit their employees and reap greater profits by their misconduct.  (Id., ¶15(e).) The allegations sufficiently allege the elements of the alter ego doctrine.  Whether this in fact will be proven true by way of evidence, will be considered at a later stage such as at the motion for summary judgment or trial stage.  The motion to strike allegations for alter ego is denied. B.    Punitive DamagesA complaint including a request for punitive damages must include allegations showing that the plaintiff is entitled to an award of punitive damages.  (Clauson v. Superior Court (1998) 67 Cal.App.4th 1253, 1255.)  A claim for punitive damages cannot be pleaded generally and allegations that a defendant acted "with oppression, fraud and malice" toward plaintiff are insufficient legal conclusions to show that the plaintiff is entitled to an award of punitive damages.  (Brousseau v. Jarrett (1977) 73 Cal.App.3d 864, 872.)  Specific factual allegations are required to support a claim for punitive damages.  (Id.)Civil Code § 3294 authorizes a plaintiff to obtain an award of punitive damages when there is clear and convincing evidence that the defendant engaged in malice, oppression, or fraud.  Section 3294(c) defines the terms in the following manner:(1)  "Malice" means conduct which is intended by the defendant to cause injury to the plaintiff or despicable conduct which is carried on by the defendant with a willful and conscious disregard of the rights or safety of others.(2)  "Oppression" means despicable conduct that subjects a person to cruel and unjust hardship in conscious disregard of that person's rights.(3)  "Fraud" means an intentional misrepresentation, deceit, or concealment of a material fact known to the defendant with the intention on the part of the defendant of thereby depriving a person of property or legal rights or otherwise causing injury. DBIK and Cheng argue that Four Joy Entities have not alleged sufficient facts regarding malice or oppression.  However, Four Joy Entities need only plead, malice, oppression, or fraud as a basis for pleading punitive damages.  As discussed above, there are sufficient and specific allegations of fraud alleged in the SAXC.  As such, the Court will allow the allegations for punitive damages to remain.  Whether an award for punitive damages can ultimately be proven by clear and convincing evidence will be determined at a later stage in this action. The motion to strike the allegations for punitive damages is denied.C.    Remaining AllegationsDBIK and Cheng do not address the remaining allegations they seek to strike specifically, but only generally argue that they should be stricken as irrelevant, false, or improper matter.  However, the Court will allow the allegations regarding Cheng’s bilingual abilities, his representations that “we don’t do it that way in America,” the nature of the misrepresentations made, etc. to remain in the SAXC. As such, the motion to strike portions of the SAXC is denied.  CONCLUSION AND ORDERCross-Defendants DBIK Construction & Design, Inc. and Danny Cheng’s demurrer to the 2nd cause of action in the Second Amended Cross-Complaint is sustained with 20 days leave to amend.  The demurrer to the 3rd, 4th, and 6th causes of action in the Second Amended Cross-Complaint is overruled.The motion to strike is denied. Cross-Defendants shall provide notice of this order. 