 Case Number:  21GDCV01353    Hearing Date:   October 4, 2024    Dept:  NCB  Superior Court of CaliforniaCounty of Los AngelesNorth Central DistrictDepartment B  ANDREW BERGMAN, et al.,                            Plaintiffs,            v. ISAAC BLOCHER, et al.,                         Defendants.   Case No.: 21GDCV01353   Hearing Date: October 4, 2024  [TENTATIVE] ORDER RE:MOTIONS TO COMPEL FURTHER RESPONSES BACKGROUNDA.   AllegationsPlaintiffs Andrew Bergman, Andrew Bondarczuk, Edward Bondarczuk, Matthew Bondarczuk, Steve Bondarczuk, Cain Hernandez, Joshua Miller, Aaron Mullenix, Christopher Nuesa, Jane Park, William Marc Salsberry, Trevor Schmidt, Aaron Stogner, Brian Walters, and Carlos Zoller (“Plaintiffs”) commenced this action against Defendant Isaac Blocher, Kristie Blocher, Aneaka English, Blocher Holdings LLC, Consortium Title, LLC, Wholesale Listings Ltd. Co., LLC, Wholesale Real Estate, LLC, WSRE South Carolina, LLC aka WSRE S. Carolina, LLC, WSRE Georgia, LLC, Selling N. Atlanta, LLC, Selling Real Estate, LLC, Selling N. Charleston, LLC, Selling N. Richmond, LLC, WSRE Florida, LLC, and E.S. Real Estate Consortium Corp.  Shepherds, LLC is named as a nominal defendant.Plaintiffs allege that they are members and investors of Shepherds LLC.  Isaac and Kristie Blocher are alleged to be the members of Blocher Holdings LLC (now dissolved) and Blocher Holdings LLC served as the manager for Shepherds LLC.  Isaac Blocher is also alleged to be the manager of Shepherds LLC. Plaintiffs allege that Isaac Blocher made false promises to Plaintiffs to induce their investment into Shepherds LLC, such as promising he would generate income for Plaintiffs, be a professional investment mortgage broker and private lender, be a good steward to Plaintiffs’ investment, etc.  (SAC, ¶42.)  In reliance on Isaac Blocher’s representations, Plaintiffs invested a total of $2,437,488 into Shepherds LLC.   Plaintiffs allege that Isaac Blocher invested nearly all of Plaintiffs’ funds with Aneaka English and transferred nearly $2.1 million from the company’ bank account into Aneaka English’s bank account.  Plaintiffs allege that Aneaka English subsequently stole the money.  Plaintiffs allege that this and other conduct by Isaac Blocher amounted to grossly negligence and/or reckless investing and behavior. The second amended complaint (“SAC”), filed September 5, 2023, alleges causes of action for: (1) breach of fiduciary duty – count one – direct cause of action; (2) breach of fiduciary duty – count two – derivative cause of action; (3) conversion – count one – direct cause of action; (4) conversion – count two – derivative cause of action; (5) fraud – count one – direct cause of action; (6) negligence – count one – direct cause of action; (7) negligence – count two – derivative cause of action; (8) breach of written contract – count one – direct cause of action; (9) breach of written contract – count two – derivative cause of action; (10) breach of the covenant of good faith and fair dealing – direct cause of action; (11) violation of Bus. & Profs. Code, §§ 17200 et seq. – count one – direct cause of action; (12) violation of Bus. & Profs. Code, §§ 17200 et seq. – count two – derivative cause of action; (13) accounting – count one – direct cause of action; and (14) accounting – count two – derivative cause of action.B.    Cross-ComplaintOn October 20, 2023, Defendants/Cross-Complainants Aneaka English aka Aneaka Ukah, Selling N. Atlanta, LLC, Selling N. Charleston, LLC, Selling N. Richmond, LLC, WSRE Florida, LLC, WSRE Georgia, LLC, and WSRE South Carolina LLC (“Cross-Complainants”) filed a cross-complaint against Cross-Defendants Andrew Bergman, Andrew Bondarczuk, Edward Bondarczuk, Matthew Bondarczuk, Steve Bondarczuk, Cain Hernandez, Joshua Miller, Aaron Mullenix, Christopher Nuesa, Jane Park, William Marc Salsberry, Trevor Schmidt, Aaron Stogner, Brian Walters, Carlos Zoller, Isaac Blocher, Kristie Blocher, Blocher Holdings, LLC, and Shepherds, LLC.  The cross-complaint alleges causes of action for: (1) accounting; (2) declaratory relief; (3) violation of Business & Professions Code, § 17200 et seq.; and (4) interpleader.On February 16, 2024, the Court sustained without leave to amend Cross-Defendants’ demurrer to and granted without leave to amend the motion to strike the cross-complaint filed on October 20, 2023.  That same day, the Court dismissed without prejudice the cross-complaint. C.    Relevant Background re: BankruptcyOn September 23, 2024, a Notice of Bankruptcy (Chapter 7) by Defendants Isaac Blocher and Kristie Blocher was filed with the Court. According to 11 U.S.C. § 362(a), the filing of a bankruptcy petition operates as a stay in actions against the debtor, enforcement of judgment against a debtor, any acts to obtain possession of property, any act to create/perfect/enforce a lien against property of the estate or against the property of the debtor, to collect assets against the debtor, to setoff any debt owing to the debtor, or commencing or continuing a proceeding before the United States Tax Court. The motions on calendar do not involve Defendants Isaac Blocher and Kristie Blocher and thus may proceed on their merits. D.   Three Motions on CalendarOn August 22, 2024, Plaintiff Matthew Bondarczuk filed a motion to compel Defendant WSRE Florida, LLC’s further responses to requests for production of documents, set one (“RPD”), Nos. 1-38.  On September 20, 2024, WSRE Florida filed an opposition brief.  On September 25, 2024, Bondarczuk filed a reply brief.On August 30, 2024, Plaintiff Matthew Bondarczuk filed a motion to compel Defendant WSRE Georgia, LLC’s further responses to RPD Nos. 1-52.  On September 20, 2024, WSRE Georgia filed an opposition brief.  On September 25, 2024, Bondarczuk filed a reply brief.On September 5, 2024, Plaintiff Matthew Bondarczuk filed a motion to compel Defendant WSRE South Carolina, LLC’s further responses to RPD Nos. 1-52.  On September 20, 2024, WSRE Georgia filed an opposition brief.  On September 25, 2024, Bondarczuk filed a reply brief.DISCUSSION            The Court continues the hearing on the 3 motions to compel further responses to October 18, 2024, so that they may be heard concurrently with Plaintiffs’ motion for terminating sanctions.  CONCLUSION AND ORDERPlaintiff Matthew Bondarczuk’s three motions to compel further responses to the requests for production of documents from Defendants WSRE Florida, LLC, WSRE Georgia, LLC, and WSRE Florida, LLC are continued to October 18, 2024 at 8:30 a.m. Plaintiffs shall provide notice of this order. 