 Case Number:  23BBCV01487    Hearing Date:   October 4, 2024    Dept:  NCB  Superior Court of CaliforniaCounty of Los AngelesNorth Central DistrictDepartment B  MAHNAZ SADANIAN, ET AL.,                         Plaintiffs,            v.BURBANK EMERGENCY MEDICAL GROUP, ET AL.,                         Defendants.   Case No.: 23BBCV01487   Hearing Date:  October 4, 2024  [TENTATIVE] ORDER RE:DEMURRER BACKGROUNDA.   AllegationsPlaintiff Mahnaz Sadanian (“Sadanian”) alleges that on April 18, 2022, she was admitted to the Emergency Department at Providence St. Joseph Medical Center where she was seen by Defendant Dr. Roger C. Lai and a female nurse/staff.  Sadanian alleges that Dr. Lai is employed by Defendant Burbank Emergency Medical Group (“Burbank EMG”).  Sadanian alleges that Dr. Lai and his staff did not disclose that they were performing a rectal exam or digital rectal exam, nor did they obtain her consent.  She alleges that a female nurse/staff turned her over and held her while Dr. Lai penetrated her rectum, causing Sadanian to experience pain and to scream.  Sadanian alleges that she bled, the pain lasted for over week, and she was emotionally distressed.   Plaintiff and counsel Isaac Toveg (“Toveg”) alleges that he is the husband of Sadanian. He alleges that as a result of Sadanian’s injuries, she has been unable to perform the necessary duties as a wife, such that Toveg has suffered a loss of consortium. The second amended complaint (“SAC”), filed on July 11, 2024, alleges causes of action for: (1) professional negligence by Sadanian against Defendants; (2) sexual assault and battery by Sadanian against Defendants; and (3) loss of consortium by Toveg against Dr. Lai. B.    Demurrer on CalendarOn August 1, 2024, Dr. Lai and Burbank EMG filed a demurrer to the SAC.On September 23, 2024, Plaintiff Sadanian filed an opposition brief. On September 26, 2024, Defendants filed a reply brief.DISCUSSION            Defendants demur to the 1st cause of action for professional negligence and the 2nd cause of action for sexual assault and battery. A.   Burbank EMG and Providence St. Joseph Medical CenterDefendants demur to the SAC, arguing that there are no allegations against Burbank EMG.  Defendants argue that the SAC refers to Providence St. Joseph Medical Center’s Emergency Department, but this is a different entity and not a named defendant. The 1st and 2nd causes of action for professional negligence and sexual assault and battery are alleged against all Defendants.  However, the 1st and 2nd causes of action fail to allege any facts pertaining to Burbank EMG.  In the SAC, Plaintiffs identify Burbank EMG as a defendant to the action (PLD-PI-001 Form Complaint at caption on p. 1; § 1 on p.1; §5 at p.2) and allege that Burbank EMG is the employer of Dr. Lai in the 3rd cause of action only (PLD-PI-001(2) Form Complaint at 3rd cause of action, ¶ GN-1). Otherwise, there are no further allegations against Burbank EMG.  The 1st and 2nd causes of action allege that the subject incident involving Sadanian occurred at (non-party) Providence Saint Joseph Medical Center Emergency Department and that Providence Saint Joseph Medical Center had numerous sexual assault complaints against it in the past.  (SAC, ¶¶7, 10, 13.) The 1st and 2nd causes of action fail to allege sufficient facts against Burbank EMG.  Plaintiff has not alleged how Burbank EMG engaged in professional negligence or is liable for sexual assault and battery.  Plaintiff has also not alleged if there is any relationship between Burbank EMG and Providence Saint Joseph Medical Center to establish whether liability on the party of Providence Saint Joseph Medical Center may be imputed to Burbank EMG. For these reasons, the demurrer to the 1st and 2nd causes of action as alleged against Burbank EMG is sustained with leave to amend. B.    1st cause of action for professional negligenceTo establish a medical malpractice claim, the plaintiff must establish: “(1) the duty of the professional to use such skill, prudence, and diligence as other members of his profession commonly possess and exercise; (2) breach of that duty; (3) a proximate causal connection between the negligence conduct and the resulting injury; and (4) actual loss or damage resulting from the professional’s negligence.”  (Borrayo v. Avery (2016) 2 Cal.App.5th 304, 310.) In the 1st cause of action, Plaintiffs allege that Defendants owed a duty of care to Sadanian including duties of respect, communication, attitude, and behavior, but Defendants breached that duty.  (SAC, ¶¶4-5.)  Plaintiffs allege that Defendants failed to take reasonable steps to disclose and communicate to Sadanian that they were going to perform a rectal exam or digital rectal exam, and did not obtain her consent to perform such exams.  (Id., ¶6.)  They allege that while she was in bed at Providence Saint Joseph Medical Center Emergency Department, Dr. Lai and a female nurse/staff turned Sadanian over, the female nurse held Sadanian down, and Dr. Lai penetrated her rectum, causing her excruciating pain, which lasted over a week.  (Id., ¶7.) Defendants demur to the 1st cause of action, arguing that there are no allegations against Burbank EMG (as discussed above) and that Plaintiffs have not alleged how Dr. Lai or the female nurse/staff’s conduct fell below the standard of care in a medical setting. The 1st cause of action is for professional negligence in a medical context.  Plaintiffs have not alleged facts regarding what professional duty, skill, prudence, and diligence Dr. Lai (and the female nurse/staff) owed to Sadanian that members of their profession commonly possess and exercise, and how their conduct breached that duty.  As such, the demurrer to the 1st cause of action is sustained with leave to amend.C.    2nd cause of action for sexual assault and batteryWhile negligent actions undertaken by health care provider for the purposes the purpose of delivering medical care to a patient constitute professional negligence; tortious actions undertaken for a different purpose—i.e., a physician's sexual gratification—are not.  (So v. Shin (2013) 212 Cal.App.4th 652, 667.)   In most instances, a claim for sexual battery would not be related to the manner in which professional services are rendered as most services by health care providers do not involve the genitalia.  (Cooper v. Superior Court (1997) 56 Cal.App.4th 744, 750.) In the 2nd cause of action, Sadanian alleges that she was seen by Dr. Lai and his female nurse/staff at the Providence Saint Joseph Medical Center’s Emergency Department.  (SAC, ¶13.)  She alleges that they did not disclose they were going to examine her private parts nor ask for her permission.  (Id.) She alleges that she did not see Dr. Lai wearing gloves nor lubricating his gloves prior to examining her.  (Id.)  She alleges that Defendants’ actions constituted offensive touching and penetration of the rectum/private parts without her consent.  (Id., ¶14.) There are several issues with this cause of action.  First, Plaintiffs allege sexual battery and assault.  If Plaintiffs are alleging two separate torts, the cause of action should be alleged in two separate causes of action.  (In the opposition brief, Plaintiffs only address the “intentional tort” of battery, but do not discuss assault.)  Second, Plaintiffs have not alleged facts showing that Defendants’ actions were intentional and undertaken for a different purpose.  (See So, supra, 212 Cal.App.4th at 667.)  As currently alleged, the 2nd cause of action is essentially duplicative of the 1st cause of action for professional negligence.The demurrer to the 2nd cause of action is sustained.  The Court will allow Plaintiffs a final opportunity to amend the 2nd cause of action (formerly alleged as an “intentional tort” cause of action). CONCLUSION AND ORDERDefendants Roger C. Lai, M.D. and Burbank Emergency Medical Group, Inc.’s demurrer to the Second Amended Complaint is sustained with 20 days leave to amend as to the 1st and 2nd causes of action.Defendants shall provide notice of this order.  