 Case Number:  24BBCV00423    Hearing Date:   October 4, 2024    Dept:  NCB Superior Court of CaliforniaCounty of Los AngelesNorth Central DistrictDepartment B  JENNA ROSE HUNTER,                         Plaintiff,            v. DGINGER GROUP LLC, et al.,                         Defendants.   Case No.:  24BBCV00423   Hearing Date: October 4, 2024   [TENTATIVE] ORDER RE:MOTION FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT            BACKGROUNDA.   AllegationsPlaintiff Jenna Rose Hunter (“Plaintiff”) alleges that she is the owner of the real property located at 3212 W. Valley Heart Drive in Burbank.  She alleges that she contracted with Defendants Dginger Group LLC (“Dginger”) and David Dginguerian (“Dginguerian”) to renovate the property.  Plaintiff alleges that during construction of the project, Defendants requested and received payments from Plaintiff in the total amount of $194,350.  Plaintiff alleges that, upon information and belief, Defendants were not and have never been licensed by the CSLB and were not properly licensed at all times during their performance of the work at the property.  Plaintiff alleges that Defendants’ work was substandard, causing her to incur additional costs and expenses to repair the work. The complaint, filed February 20, 2024, alleges a single cause of action for disgorgement of money paid to unlicensed contractor.B.    Motion on CalendarOn June 17, 2024, Plaintiff filed a motion for summary judgment on the complaint against Defendants.  Plaintiff argues that there are no triable issues of material fact and that she is entitled to judgment as a matter of law on her sole cause of action for disgorgement of money paid to an unlicensed contractor. On September 19, 2024, Defendants filed an opposition brief.DISCUSSION            Plaintiff moves for summary judgment on the complaint in her favor, and against Defendants.              The Court continues the hearing on the motion for summary judgment.  No further briefing is permitted on this matter without the express permission of the Court. CONCLUSION AND ORDERPlaintiff Jenna Rose Hunter’s motion for summary judgment is continued to October 25, 2024 at 8:30 a.m. in Department B. Plaintiff shall provide notice of this order.   