 Case Number:  23STCV12115    Hearing Date:   May 20, 2024    Dept:  31 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA  FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT  SHANNON JAWORSKI, Plaintiff(s), vs.  ROYCE HUGH WORDEN,  Defendant(s). ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) )       CASE NO: 23STCV12115  [TENTATIVE] ORDER DENYING WITHOUT PREJUDICE APPLICATION TO APPEAR PRO HAC VICE   Dept. 31 1:30 p.m.  May 20, 2024  Felicia Hubert (“Applicant”) seeks admission to appear as counsel pro hac vice to represent plaintiff Shannon Jaworski in this action. The application was previously denied without prejudice due to failure to comply with Cal. Rules of Court, rule 9.40(c)(1). (Min. Order, April 22, 2024.) On the renewed application, Applicant has cured the defect by providing proof of service on the State Bar.  However, the motion is denied without prejudice on procedural grounds due to inadequate notice. Pursuant to CCP §1005(b), “all moving and supporting papers shall be served and filed at least 16 court days before the hearing...However, if the notice is served by mail, the required 16-day period of notice before the hearing shall be increased by five calendar days if the place of mailing and the place of address are within the State of California… and if the notice is served by facsimile transmission, express mail, or another method of delivery providing for overnight delivery, the required 16-day period of notice before the hearing shall be increased by two calendar days.”  Here, the hearing was set for May 20, 2024. Counting backwards from the date of the hearing, 16 court days prior falls on April 26, 2024. However, Defendant was served by electronic mail, and the State Bar by mail. Therefore, an additional two calendar days must be accounted for in terms of proper service on Defendant, and an additional five calendar days for service on the State Bar. Thus, Applicant must have served Defendant with the moving papers by no later than April 24, 2024, and serve the State Bar by no later than April 22, 2024. (CCP §1005(b); CRC, Rule 1.10(b).) However, the proofs of service provide that Defendant was served the moving papers on April 25, 2024 and April 29, 2024. The proof of service provides the State Bar was served on April 26, 2024.   Based on the foregoing, the instant application fails to provide the requisite statutory notice and is DENIED without prejudice.   Moving party is ordered to give notice.  PLEASE TAKE NOTICE: Parties are encouraged to meet and confer after reading this tentative ruling to see if they can reach an agreement. If a party intends to submit on this tentative ruling,¿the party must send an email to the court at¿sscdept31@lacourt.org¿with the Subject line “SUBMIT” followed by the case number.¿ The body of the email must include the hearing date and time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the party submitting.¿¿ Unless¿all¿parties submit by email to this tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or in person for oral argument.¿ You should assume that others may appear at the hearing to argue.¿¿ If the parties neither submit nor appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.¿ After the Court has issued a tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion without leave.¿  Dated this 17th day of May 2024      Hon. Michelle C. Kim Judge of the Superior Court    