 Case Number:  21STCV25564    Hearing Date:   May 20, 2024    Dept:  31 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA  FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT  DANIEL ROMERO GARCIA, Plaintiff(s),  vs.  CHRISTOPHER BLAKNEY, ET AL.,  Defendant(s). ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) )       CASE NO: 21STCV25564  [TENTATIVE] ORDER GRANTING UNOPPOSED MOTION FOR LEAVE TO OBTAIN SECOND PHYSICAL EXAMINATION OF PLAINTIFF   Dept. 31 1:30 p.m.  May 20, 2024  I. BACKGROUND Plaintiff Daniel Romero Garcia (“Plaintiff”) filed this action against defendant Christopher Blakney (“Defendant”) for injuries arising from a motor vehicle collision. Defendant now moves for an order compelling Plaintiff to submit to a second physical examination (“IME”) with neurologist Lorne Label, M.D. (“Dr. Label”). Any opposition was due on or before May 7, 2024; none has been filed.   II. MOTION TO COMPEL SECOND PHYSICAL EXAMINATION Legal Standard Except for defense physicals in personal injury cases (in which one examination is permitted as a matter of course) and exams arranged by stipulation, a court order is required for a physical or mental examination. Such order may be made only after notice and hearing, and for “good cause shown.” (CCP §2032.320(a).) The examination will be limited to whatever condition is “in controversy” in the action.  (CCP §2032.020(a).)  This means the examination must be directly related to the specific injury or condition that is the subject of the litigation. (Roberts v. Superior Court (1973) 9 Cal.3d 330, 337.)  Discovery responses can also frame the issues regarding the injuries and damages alleged.  Where the plaintiff's injuries are complex, several exams may be necessary by specialists in different fields. There is no limit on the number of physical or mental exams that may be ordered on a showing of good cause.  The good cause requirement checks any potential harassment of the plaintiff.  (See Shapira v. Superior Court (1990) 224 Cal.App.3d 1249, 1255.) The burden is on the moving party to show (by declarations or other evidence) that the examinee's condition is “in controversy” in the action. The moving party must also establish good cause for the examination(s) sought. (CCP § 2032.320(a).  Discussion Here, Plaintiff previously underwent an orthopedic examination on March 24, 2024. Aside from his claim of lower back injury, Plaintiff testified at deposition that he has seen a neurologist, and that he has headaches, memory issues, brain fog, and head tension. Defense counsel avers Plaintiff’s counsel did not respond to meet and confer efforts regarding the second physical examination.  A failure to oppose a motion may be deemed a consent to the granting of the motion. (CRC, Rule 8.54.) Plaintiff did not oppose the motion, and therefore does not dispute that he has placed neurological injuries in controversy. The Court therefore finds good cause for a neurological examination of Plaintiff. Further, the Notice provides the relevant information required by CCP § 2032.320(d). It further provides the diagnostic tests and procedures as follows:   “The examination will be consistent with the practices of neurology in Southern California and consultations in connection with such practices. It will consist of procedures and tests routinely used by physicians examining patients for conditions such as those alleged by plaintiff in the above-captioned action, including the taking of an oral history. The examination will consist of a mental status examination which includes orientation, comprehensive and expressive speech, serial sevens, spelling a simple word, recalling 5 words to check memory, and Montréal Cognitive Assessment. The examination will also include checking all cranial nerves; a motor exam which includes checking tone, strength and reflexes, palpating any injured muscle areas; cerebellar which includes standing with feet together, standing on one foot, tandem gait, finger to finger touching, heel to shin and finger to nose touching; a sensory exam which includes checking light touch, sharp touch, cold touch and vibration in all 4 extremities; gait - watching the person walk, walking on toes and heels; and stance-watching - the person stand.”  (Notice at 2:16-27).  The Court finds that this is sufficient to provide Plaintiff notice of the tests/procedures, conditions, scope, and nature to permit Plaintiff to prepare for the examination.   III. CONCLUSION Accordingly, Defendant’s unopposed motion to compel the second physical examination of Plaintiff with Dr. Label is GRANTED. Plaintiff is ordered to appear for a physical examination with Dr. Label at 2190 Lynn Road, Suite 380, Thousand Oaks, CA. The parties must meet and confer to determine the date and time for the examination; if Plaintiff does not meaningfully participate in the meet and confer process, Defendant may unilaterally set the date and time for the examination with at least ten days’ notice to Plaintiff (extended per Code if by other than personal service). The examination as detailed in the Notice to the motion may not be expanded in connection with the compelled exam.  Moving party is ordered to give notice.    PLEASE TAKE NOTICE: Parties are encouraged to meet and confer after reading this tentative ruling to see if they can reach an agreement. If a party intends to submit on this tentative ruling,¿the party must send an email to the court at¿sscdept31@lacourt.org¿with the Subject line “SUBMIT” followed by the case number.¿ The body of the email must include the hearing date and time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the party submitting.¿¿ Unless¿all¿parties submit by email to this tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or in person for oral argument.¿ You should assume that others may appear at the hearing to argue.¿¿ If the parties neither submit nor appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.¿ After the Court has issued a tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion without leave.¿  Dated this 17th day of May 2024      Hon. Michelle C. Kim Judge of the Superior Court   