  Case Number:  20STCV17404    Hearing Date:   May 20, 2024    Dept:  31 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA  FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT  RANIM ROGER BAROUD, Plaintiff(s),  vs.  INMOTION EXPRESS, INC., ET AL.,  Defendant(s). ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) )       CASE NO: 20STCV17404  [TENTATIVE] ORDER GRANTING MOTION TO BE RELIEVED AS COUNSEL  Dept. 31 1:30 p.m.  May 20, 2024  Plaintiff Ranim Roger Baroud’s (“Plaintiff”) attorney of record, James L. Pocrass, Esq. of Pocrass & De Los Reyes LLP (“Counsel”), moves to be relieved as counsel contending relief is necessary because of an irreparable breakdown in the working relationship, and that irreconcilable differences have arisen making it unreasonably difficult to carry out effective representation.       Counsel declares he has served Plaintiff by mail at the last known address, which Counsel confirmed within the last 30 days as current through mail and the email address Counsel uses to communicate with Plaintiff. Counsel has filed proof of service of the motion, declaration, and proposed order on Plaintiff and on Defendant.  (California Rules Court, rule 3.1362(d).)      The motion is unopposed and granted; the ruling is effective upon filing proof of service of the final order. No trial date has not been set. Therefore, there is sufficient time for Plaintiff to seek other counsel or otherwise prepare prior to trial.   Counsel is ordered to file proof of service of the final order within ten (10 days). The Court sets an Order to Show Cause re: Proof of Service of the Final Order for ___________________.    Moving Counsel is ordered to give notice.     PLEASE TAKE NOTICE: Parties are encouraged to meet and confer after reading this tentative ruling to see if they can reach an agreement. If a party intends to submit on this tentative ruling,¿the party must send an email to the court at¿sscdept31@lacourt.org¿with the Subject line “SUBMIT” followed by the case number.¿ The body of the email must include the hearing date and time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the party submitting.¿¿ Unless¿all¿parties submit by email to this tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or in person for oral argument.¿ You should assume that others may appear at the hearing to argue.¿¿ If the parties neither submit nor appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.¿ After the Court has issued a tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion without leave.¿  Dated this 17th day of May 2024      Hon. Michelle C. Kim Judge of the Superior Court    