 Case Number:  22STCV05553    Hearing Date:   May 20, 2024    Dept:  31  SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA  FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT  GLENDIS BEKER, Plaintiff(s), vs.  THE HERTZ CORPORATION, ET AL.,  Defendant(s). ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) )       CASE NO: 22STCV05553  [TENTATIVE] ORDER DENYING MOTION FOR RECONSIDERATION  Dept. 31 1:30 p.m.  May 20, 2024  I. BACKGROUND FACTS Plaintiff Glendis Beker (“Plaintiff”) filed this action against defendants The Hertz Corporation (“Hertz”) and Romaine Kirlew for injuries arising from an automobile collision.  On February 26, 2024, the Court granted Plaintiff’s motion to compel further, and ordered Hertz to serve further responses to Plaintiff’s request for production of documents, set one, as to request nos. 5 and 7. (Min. Order, Feb. 26, 2024.) Further, the Court granted Plaintiff’s request for sanctions and ordered Hertz and/or its counsel, jointly and severally, to pay Plaintiff $1,560 in monetary sanctions. (Ibid.) On March 7, 2024, Hertz filed the instant motion for reconsideration, requesting reconsideration of the amount awarded in monetary sanctions in the February 26, 2024 ruling. The motion was initially heard on April 25, 2024, in which the Court reset the hearing date for May 20, 2024. The Court provided that, if either party wishes to submit additional briefing on the issue regarding its authority to reconsider the February 26, 2024 Order, that the briefing be submitted by May 8, 2024. (Min. Order, April 25, 2024.)  On May 7, 2024, Hertz filed its supplemental brief. On May 8, 2024, Plaintiff filed an opposition.   II. DISCUSSION The Court appreciates the vigorous advocacy by the parties on the issue of sanctions. After considering all the briefing and reviewing the docket, the Court will not exercise its inherent authority to reconsider the ruling on sanctions. Hertz’s motion for reconsideration is denied based on the failure to provide the requisite showing of new or different facts, circumstances, or law for reconsideration. The Court further denies the request for relief under section 473(b), as the Court is of the view that Hertz had the opportunity to address the issue of sanctions in its opposition to the Motion to Compel Further Responses, and Hertz’s failure to do so does not amount to “mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or excusable neglect” such that the Court would relieve Hertz from the imposition of sanctions.   III. CONCLUSION Hertz’ motion for reconsideration is DENIED.   Moving party is ordered to give notice.    PLEASE TAKE NOTICE: Parties are encouraged to meet and confer after reading this tentative ruling to see if they can reach an agreement. If a party intends to submit on this tentative ruling,¿the party must send an email to the court at¿sscdept31@lacourt.org¿with the Subject line “SUBMIT” followed by the case number.¿ The body of the email must include the hearing date and time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the party submitting.¿¿ Unless¿all¿parties submit by email to this tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or in person for oral argument.¿ You should assume that others may appear at the hearing to argue.¿¿ If the parties neither submit nor appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.¿ After the Court has issued a tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion without leave.¿  Dated this 17th day of May 2024      Hon. Michelle C. Kim Judge of the Superior Court   