 Case Number:  22SMCV02350    Hearing Date:   April 23, 2024    Dept:  N TENTATIVE RULINGDefendants Wood of Chiu Living Trust, Roman Chiu, and Abby Wood’s Motion to Compel Plaintiff’s Attendance at Deposition is DENIED without prejudice.Defendants Wood of Chiu Living Trust, Roman Chiu, and Abby Wood to give notice. REASONINGDefendants Wood of Chiu Living Trust, Roman Chiu, and Abby Wood (“Defendants”) move the Court for an order to compel the deposition of Plaintiff Marcelino Arcos (“Plaintiff”) on the ground that Plaintiff has failed to appear for deposition. Defendants represent that they served a notice of deposition on Plaintiff on January 4, 2024, but the deposition did not go forward as noticed on January 22, 2024, because Plaintiff failed to appear. (Mot., Katiraie Decl. ¶¶ 3-4.) “If, after service of a deposition notice, a party to the action . . . , without having served a valid objection under Section 2025.410, fails to appear for examination, or to proceed with it, or to produce for inspection any document, electronically stored information, or tangible thing described in the deposition notice, the party giving the notice may move for an order compelling the deponent’s attendance and testimony, and the production for inspection of any document, electronically stored information, or tangible thing described in the deposition notice.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.450, subd. (a).)While Defendants are entitled to take Plaintiff’s deposition, and Defendants present evidence that Plaintiff failed to appear for examination, Plaintiff’s motion is not accompanied by a proper declaration and must be denied without prejudice. Code of Civil Procedure section 2025.450, subdivision (b)(2), states that a motion to compel a party’s deposition “shall be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration under Section 2016.040, or, when the deponent fails to attend the deposition and produce the documents, electronically stored information, or things described in the deposition notice, by a declaration stating that the petitioner has contacted the deponent to inquire about the nonappearance.” Defendants’ motion is one to compel deposition testimony due to Plaintiff’s nonappearance, such that it should have been accompanied by a declaration describing meet-and-confer efforts or stating that defense counsel contacted Plaintiff to inquire about the nonappearance. Defense counsel states only that Plaintiff has not appeared for a deposition or scheduled one (Mot., Katiraie Decl. ¶ 5), but the onus is on Defendants to contact Plaintiff before making a motion to compel a deposition. Defendants’ motion fails to set forth any such efforts.Because the instant motion is not accompanied by the required declaration, Defendants Wood of Chiu Living Trust, Roman Chiu, and Abby Wood’s Motion to Compel Plaintiff’s Attendance at Deposition is DENIED without prejudice.