  Case Number:  19TRCV01062    Hearing Date:   December 5, 2024    Dept:  B 


Superior
  Court of California
County
  of Los Angeles
Southwest
  District
Torrance
  Dept. B




 
WEBTOON
  ENTERTAINMENT, INC., et al., 


 
 
 
Plaintiffs,


 
Case No.:
 


 
19TRCV01062




 
vs.


 


 
[Tentative]
  RULING
 




 
ROCKETSHIP
  ENTERTAINMENT, LLC, et al.,


 
 
 
Defendants.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing
Date:                          December
5, 2024 (continued from October 9, 2024)
 
Moving
Parties:                      (1)
Defendants Rocketship Entertainment, LLC and Thomas G. Akel; (2) plaintiff
Quanquan (Chelsey) Han and Webtoon
Responding Party:                  (1) Plaintiffs Webtoon and Han;
(2) defendants Rocketship Entertainment and Thomas Akel
(1)  
Motion
to Reopen Discovery
(2)  
Motion
to Bifurcate 
 
            The Court considered the moving,
opposition, and reply papers and joint statement. The Court had continued the
hearing to allow counsel to further meet and confer and to file a joint
statement.
RULING
            Defendants’ motion to reopen
discovery is GRANTED in part.  Discovery is reopened to allow defendants to
obtain documents sufficient to show total sales of unOrdinary and a
declaration as to the authenticity of those documents.
            The motion to bifurcate is DENIED.
BACKGROUND
            On November 25, 2019, plaintiffs
Webtoon Entertainment, Inc. and Quanquan (Chelsey) Han filed a complaint
against Rocketship Entertainment, LLC and Thomas G. Akel for (1) inducing
breach of contract, (2) intentional interference with contractual relations,
(3) intentional interference with prospective economic relations, (4)
fraudulent inducement to enter contract, (5) negligent misrepresentation, (6)
violation of Bus. and Prof. Code §17200, (7) common law unfair competition, and
(8) declaratory relief.
            On November 3, 2020, the court
overruled the demurrer to the complaint.
On December 28, 2020, Rocketship
filed a FACC.
On April 5, 2021, Rocketship filed
a SACC for (1) breach of contract, (2) fraud, (3) intentional interference with
an existing contract, (4) intentional interference with business relations, (5)
violation of Bus. and Prof. Code §17200, and (6) indemnification.
            On August 25, 2021, the court
granted Rocketship’s ex parte application to effectuate service on
cross-defendant Naver Webtoon.
On November 18, 2021, the court
denied in part Webtoon’s motion for summary adjudication as to the complaint’s
1st and 2nd causes of action and granted it as to the second,
third, and fourth causes of action in the SACC.
            On December 10, 2021, the court
denied Webtoon’s motion to quash service of summons on Naver Webtoon.  The court also granted the motion to lift
protective order as to Ken Kim’s deposition.
            On January 5, 2022, the court denied
Rocketship’s motion to compel further responses to requests for admission.
            On February 25, 2022, the court
sustained without leave to amend Webtoon’s demurrer as to the SACC’s second,
third, fourth, and fifth causes of action as to cross-defendant Naver
Webtoon.  The court also granted without
leave to amend Webtoon and Han’s motion for judgment on the pleadings as to the
fifth cause of action in the SACC.
            On March 3, 2022, a dismissal was
entered as to the SACC.
            On March 3, 2022, Rocketship filed a
notice of appeal.
            On March 14, 2022, Webtoon and Han
filed the herein motion to bifurcate equitable issue.
            On April 6, 2022, the court granted
Rocketship’s motion to stay proceedings pending appeal.
            On April 26, 2022, in light of the
ruling on April 6, the court took the motion to bifurcate off calendar stating
that it will consider the motion when the stay is lifted.
            On May 17, 2024, the appellate court
issued a remittitur as to its February 28, 2024 order dismissing Rocketship’s
appeal, finding neither of the court’s orders appealable.
LEGAL AUTHORITY
            Reopen discovery
CCP §2024.050 states: “(a) On
motion of any party, the court may grant leave to reopen discovery after a new
trial date has been set.  This motion
shall be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration under Section 2016.040.   
            (b) In exercising its discretion to
grant or deny this motion, the court shall take into consideration any matter
relevant to the leave requested, including, but not limited to, the
following:  (1) The necessity and the
reasons for the discovery.  (2) The
diligence or lack of diligence of the party seeking the discovery or the
hearing of a discovery motion, and the reasons that the discovery was not
completed or that the discovery motion was not heard earlier.  (3) Any likelihood that permitting the
discovery or hearing the discovery motion will prevent the case from going to
trial on the date set, or otherwise interfere with the trial calendar, or
result in prejudice to any other party. 
(4) The length of time that has elapsed between any date previously set,
and the date presently set, for the trial of the action.  
            (c) The court shall impose a
monetary sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010) against
any party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to
extend or to reopen discovery, unless it finds that the one subject to the
sanction acted with substantial justification or that other circumstances make
the imposition of the sanction unjust.” 
            Bifurcate
Under CCP §598, “[t]he court may,
when the convenience of witnesses, the ends of justice, or the economy and
efficiency of handling the litigation would be promoted thereby, on motion of a
party, after notice and hearing, make an order . . . that the trial of any
issue or any part thereof shall precede the trial of any other issue or any
part thereof in the case . . . .”
Under CCP §1048(b), “[t]he court,
in furtherance of convenience or to avoid prejudice, or when separate trials
will be conducive to expedition and economy, may order a separate trial of any
cause of action . . . or of any separate issue or of any number of causes of
action or issues.”
Under both CCP §§598 and 1048(b),
the trial court has broad discretion. 
See Grappo v. Coventry Financial Corp. (1991) 235 Cal. App. 3d
496, 504 (trial court has ample authority to exercise broad discretion under §§
598 and 1048 and Evid. Code § 320 [providing court has discretion to regulate
order of proof); National Electric Supply Co. v. Mount Diablo Unified School
Dist. (1960) 187 Cal. App. 2d 418, 421 (trial court has necessarily broad
discretion under §1048 which will not be interfered with except for abuse
thereof).
DISCUSSION
            As
context for the two motions, in the
complaint, plaintiffs allege that this action arises out of defendants’
intentional interference with Webtoon’s economic relationships with its comic
creators, and in particular, Thomas Akel’s fraud in inducing Han to breach her
Webtoon Intellectual Property (“IP”) Agreement by entering into a Publishing
Agreement with his competing company, Rocketship.  Complaint, ¶12.  As Webtoon’s Head of Content, in early 2018,
Akel acted on Webtoon’s behalf to negotiate an IP Agreement with Han granting
Webtoon joint ownership and management rights for her hit comic series,
“unOrdinary.”  Id., ¶13.  The IP Agreement provided for Webtoon to have
(1) 20% ownership of the intellectual property for Han’s series; (2) a right of
first refusal requiring Han to notify and give Webtoon an exclusive first
opportunity to negotiate a further deal with her prior to her entering into any
other agreement or arrangement; and (3) the exclusive and worldwide right to
represent Han with respect to selling, negotiating, and producing works related
to her series.  Id., ¶14.  They entered into the IP Agreement effective
January 26, 2018.  Id., ¶15.
Plaintiffs further allege that
after Akel was let go by Webtoon in November 2018, he approached Han in March
2019 to negotiate a deal on behalf of his publishing company, Rocketship.  Id., ¶16. 
He was fully aware that Han negotiating and entering into an agreement
with Rocketship without notifying Webtoon would breach her IP Agreement with
Webtoon.  Nevertheless, Akel sought to
negotiate such a deal with Han to benefit himself and his company by
fraudulently obtaining rights to the unOrdinary series to Han’s and Webtoon’s
detriment.  Id., ¶17.  Based on Akel’s misrepresentations and
manipulation of Han, she signed the Publishing Agreement with Rocketship on
July 1, 2019.  Id., ¶23.  Akel has been similarly approaching other
Webtoon creators whom he knows have granted Webtoon joint ownership, a right of
first refusal, exclusive management rights, and/or other rights under similar
IP agreements, for the express purpose of inducing those authors to enter
agreements with Rocketship that violate their Webtoon agreements.  Id., ¶30.
The complaint seeks injunctive
relief and damages for inducing breach of contract; intentional interference
with contractual relations; intentional interference with prospective economic
relations; fraudulent inducement to enter a contract; negligent misrepresentation;
violation of California Business and Professions Code §17200, et seq.; and
common law unfair competition, as well as declaratory relief and rescission of
the Rocketship Publishing Agreement pursuant to Civil Code §1689.  Id., §34.
 
            Motion
to reopen discovery
            Pursuant
to CCP §2024.050(a), defendants request that the Court reopen discovery based
on the release of the print version of the property at issue, unOrdinary.  
            Defendants
assert that since the initiation of the appeal, “significant developments have
occurred that critically impact the question of damages.”  Defendants explain that in December 2023,
unOrdinary was officially released in print, which, defendants argue
“transitions the potential damages from theoretical projections to tangible
financial figures and market data.” 
Defendants contend that the actual sales data for unOrdinary is
available and that this data is critical for the defense of plaintiffs’ damages
claims.  Defendants explain that the
additional discovery includes financial records, marketing strategies, change
in publishers, and consumer feedback, which, defendants contend, did not exist
prior to the release of unordinary and management changes at Webtoon.  Defendants also asset that since the appeal,
there have been substantial shifts in the management structure of Webtoon U.S.,
“directly affecting the company’s operations and strategic decisions, which are
central to the damages claimed by Webtoon.” 
Defendants argue that the request is narrowly tailored and will not
cause delays or prejudice to Webtoon.
            In
opposition, plaintiffs contend that defendants did not meet and confer before
filing the motion.  Rather, plaintiffs
argue, defendants sent a “perfunctory letter” before filing the motion and
ignoring plaintiffs’ offer to stipulate to an informal information exchange.  Further, noting that discovery closed in
October 2021, plaintiffs argue that the motion fails on the merits because the
requested discovery is irrelevant, burdensome, and designed to cause more
unwarranted delay.  Plaintiffs assert
that plaintiffs’ argument “that is even colorable is that Webtoons’ sales of
unOrdinary might be relevant to Rocketship’s damages on its surviving breach of
contract/indemnification causes of action against” Han is unsupported because defendant
Akel had testified that he could calculate defendants’ lost profits as of April
2021 and defendants did not designate a financial expert.  Plaintiffs further argue that to the extent
that defendants seek discovery to test Webtoon’s damages claim, defendants have
conceded that Webtoon has already produced its historical sales data for the
relevant time period for other print comics. 
Plaintiffs also point out that the term of Rocketship’s agreement was
from June 29, 2019 through June 29, 2022, and that plaintiffs began selling
unOrdinary in print in December 2023; thus, there is no overlap in time.  Plaintiffs also contend that no substantial
similarity between the businesses at issue exist and Webtoon’s sales do not
provide a baseline for Rocketship’s.  Plaintiffs
further argue that defendants have not shown diligence in pursuing discovery,
citing as an example when defendants propounded requests for production, set
two related to many topics they now deem “necessary’ but did not enforce the
requests for production although plaintiffs offered to meet and confer to
develop an appropriate electronic search protocol.  Plaintiffs argue also that they have suffered
substantial prejudice from defendants’ “bad faith delays” and would have to
incur significant costs engaging in the broad discovery sought.  Plaintiffs point out that nearly three years
have elapsed from the initial trial date. 
Finally, plaintiffs request monetary sanctions.
            In
reply, defendants reiterate their arguments that a change in circumstances
creates a necessity for the sought evidence and the relevancy of such
discovery.  Defendants also assert that
they sufficiently attempted to meet and confer but that plaintiffs’ response
was “late, paltry, and antagonistic.”  
            As
noted above, the hearing was continued to allow counsel to meet and confer as
to what further discovery may be needed before trial, with respect to
unOrdinary being sold in print by HarperAlley starting in late 2023.  The parties filed a joint statement.  According to the joint statement, plaintiffs
understand that the total number of copies of unOrdinary sold in print
2023-2024 is what both parties are relying on as a proxy for the sale success
Han’s work would have had years earlier. 
Thus, plaintiffs propose producing documents sufficient to allow those
total sales figures and a declaration as needed to confirm the authenticity of
those documents.  Defendants propose
production of documents sufficient to determine Han’s net revenue from
HarperAlley as it pertain to unOrdinary: 
(1) payments to Han, (2) documents showing total sales of unOrdinary,
and (3) the agreement between Han/Webtoon and HarperAlley.
            Thus,
in comparing the parties’ positions, the parties both agree as to plaintiffs’
production of documents showing total sales of unOrdinary.  It is unclear as to the relevancy of payments
to Han and the agreement between Han/Webtoon and HarperAlley.  
            The
Court rules as follows:  In consideration
of the factors under CCP
§2024.050(b), the Court finds that reopening discovery is warranted in light of
the print version of unOrdinary, but limited to only documents showing total
sales of unOrdinary and a declaration as to the authenticity of those
documents.  
            The motion is thus GRANTED in part.
 
            Motion
to bifurcate
            Pursuant
to CCP §§1048(b) and 598, plaintiff Han (and joined by plaintiff Webtoon
Entertainment, Inc.) requests an order bifurcating and trying first the issue
of rescission of the Rocketship Agreement, contending that it is an equitable
issue.  
Plaintiffs
argue that rescission is an equitable remedy and that an early determination of
the issue of rescission will serve the interests of judicial economy and
efficiency, and the convenience of the parties, in that such a determination
could cause this matter to be resolved without the need for a separate jury
trial with respect to the parties’ legal claims for damages.  Plaintiffs contend that if the court orders
rescission of the Rocketship Agreement, then Rocketship’s two remaining
counterclaims would be rendered moot.  
Citing to Civil Code §1689, plaintiffs argue that fraud is a ground for
rescission.
In
opposition, defendant argues that while rescission, as a remedy, is equitable,
the question of fraudulent inducement upon which plaintiffs wish to rely to
seek the rescission remedy is not and that the gist of plaintiff’s action is a
claim for fraudulent inducement. 
Defendant asserts that recission is a remedy election that follows
factual determination of the right to make the election.  Further, defendant contends, the complaint
does not state that plaintiffs are seeking rescission as a remedy, including
under the 4th cause of action for fraudulent inducement.  Defendant also asserts that although
plaintiffs asserted an affirmative defense of fraudulent inducement, whether a
party detrimentally relied on the misrepresentation of another party is
properly left to a jury.
Civil Code §1689 states in
part:  “(b) A party to a contract may
rescind the contract in the following cases: 
(1) If the consent of the party rescinding, or of any party jointly
contracting with him, was given by mistake, or obtained through duress, menace,
fraud, or undue influence, exercised by or with the connivance of the party as
to whom he rescinds, or of any other party to the contract jointly interested
with such party.”
It is the gist of the action that
determines whether the action is for the enforcement of a right recognized only
in equity, in which case there is no right to a jury trial.  C & K Engineering Contractors v. Amber
Steel Co. (1978) 23 Cal. 3d 1, 8. 
“[T]he right of the parties to a jury and the court in which the action
must be brought will be determined by the nature of the substantive relief
requested and not by the form of the complaint.”  Runyan v. Pac. Air Indus. (1970) 2
Cal. 3d 304, 313.  “Where no damages are
sought, and a plaintiff seeks only to rescind, the action is equitable and a
jury trial is not a matter of right.”  Hastings
v. Matlock (1985) 171 Cal. App. 3d 826, 835.
The Court notes that plaintiffs
have not sought a prayer for relief of rescission.  Rather, they seek declaratory relief,
damages, an order that defendants be enjoined from printing the unOrdinary
comic and any further Webtoon comics to which defendants improperly obtained
printing rights, an award of punitive damages, an award of costs and
disbursements, and for such other and further relief as the court deems just
and property.  Further, although
plaintiffs generally allege rescission at para. 34, they do not allege such a
remedy under any of the causes of action. 
See Lectrodryer v. Seoulbank (2000) 77 Cal. App. 4th
723, 728 (“As [the defendant] acknowledges, [the plaintiff’s] claim for
restitution was ‘technically an action at law.’ 
Indeed, [the plaintiff] sought and received damages as its only remedy.  Such a remedy, even when equitable principles
are applied, indicates the gist of the claim is legal in nature.”) (citation
omitted).  Plaintiffs also have not
alleged that Han rescinded the agreement or make a claim for rescission.
The motion is thus DENIED.
 
ORDER
            Defendants’
motion to reopen discovery is GRANTED in part. 
Discovery is reopened to allow defendants to obtain documents sufficient to show total
sales of unOrdinary and a declaration as to the authenticity of those
documents.
            Plaintiffs’
motion to bifurcate is DENIED.
            Plaintiffs
are ordered to give notice of ruling.