 Case Number:  22TRCV01568    Hearing Date:   December 5, 2024    Dept:  B POURAN YAGHOUBI, AN INDIVIDUAL vs LOS ANGELES WORLD
AIRPORTS, A PUBLIC ENTITY, et al.
Case No. 22TRCV01568
Ex Parte Application FOR ORDER CONTINUING TRIAL AND ALL
RELATED DATES AND DEADLINES
“If at first you don't succeed,
try, try again.”  The origins of this
phrase are not entirely clear, having been quoted as far back as 1840 but
popularised in Edward Hickson's Moral Song (1857).  Whoever originally coined it, most people
would agree with its sentiment.
This is a premises liability case.
“Defendants negligently, recklessly
and/or wantonly owned, maintained, managed, operated, controlled and
safeguarded the premises at or near 200 World Way, Los Angeles, CA 90045, such
that an unknown object and/or substance and/or liquid was allowed to exist
and/or accumulate, thereby causing the area to be slippery and constituting a
dangerous condition…”  (Complaint Attachment.)
When the parties failed to comply with this Court’s June 27,
2023 Order that they conduct a mediation or two hour face-to-face attempt to
settle by the Post Mediation Status Conference scheduled for June 6, 2024, they
submitted their Joint Stipulation to Continue Post-Mediation Status Conference.  March 6, 2024 was requested as a new date for
the post mediation conference.  This date
was a month after the then ordered trial date of February 5, 2025.  The Court rejected that request.  It advised the parties that all future dates
remained on calendar.  The trial date of February
5, 2025 had been set on June 27, 2023. 
Further, the Court advised the attorneys that there would be no
continuance of the trial absent extreme good cause.
As the trial date approached, the parties on November 15,
2024 submitted a Stipulation asking that the trial be continued to May 29,
2025.  The Stipulation was wholly devoid
of any explanation purporting to justify the request.  This Court wrote a 4 page Order denying that
request, reciting the history of the case and reminding the parties that the
matter remained on calendar for a February 5, 2025 trial.  The Court stated in that Order:
“Apparently the parties view court
orders as mere suggestions.  They do not
appear to take seriously the orders of this court.  They ignored the court’s order regarding
mediation.  They now ignore the court’s
June 6, 2024 order that there would be no continuance absent extreme good
cause.  Indeed, their form stipulation
(using a form was used in the Central District HUB) provides no explanation
whatsoever for a requested continuance of the trial date.
The court DENIES the request for a
continuance of the trial and final status conference.  The Court expects the parties to timely and
fully comply with the June 27, 2023 Case Management Conference Order setting
forth the trial preparation obligations.”
The parties have now scheduled this ex parte application
supported by a Joint Stipulation to Continue Trial.  They have provided the Court some explanation
for their inability to be prepared for the February 5, 2025 trial date, and now
ask that the trial not merely be delayed until May 29, 2024 as requested merely
3 weeks ago, but now seek to have the trial delayed an additional 2 months until
August 4, 2025.
The Court makes the following Order:
The Ex Parte Application is continued for hearing on
December 12, 2024 at 9:00 a.m. in this Department.
The parties are ordered to meet and confer and prepare a
Joint Discovery Plan to be filed no later than December 9, 2024 which:
1.  Lists all past
discovery (interrogatories, document requests, request to admit) with the dates
each was initiated and responded to.
2. Lists each deposition that was taken, the date when it
was noticed and that date it actually took place.
3.  Lists each
deposition that a party desires to take in the future, the date a Notice shall
be served and that date that it shall be noticed to commence.
4.  Lists each
discovery tool that shall be invoked (interrogatories, document requests,
request to admit) and when it shall be served.
5.  Lists all third
party discovery that the parties shall commence, the date it shall be initiated
and completed.
6.  Lists all medical
examinations and when Notice shall be served and the exam performed.
7.  Lists  the date by which all discovery shall be
completed.
8.  Explain why the
parties failed to comply with the June 6, 2024 mediation completion date set by
the Court in June 2023 and why a mediation is now scheduled for April 12, 2025,
a date nearly 5 months in the future and 10 months after the Court ordered date.  The parties must explain why it is not
possible to conduct a mediation within approximately 45-60 days.
9.  Provide any
additional information that the parties believe shall assist the Court in
setting a new trial date.
The parties must be fully prepared to discuss the Joint Discovery
plan, enter into appropriate stipulations intended to expedite remaining discovery,
and otherwise materially advance the preparation f this case for trial.  It is exceedingly unlikely that the Court
shall afford the parties nearly the amount of additional delay of the trial that
they are requesting.