  Case Number:  23CHCV01849    Hearing Date:   October 23, 2023    Dept:  F51 DEMURRER  Los Angeles Superior Court Case  # 23CHCV01849    Demurrer Filed: 7/31/23   MOVING PARTY: Defendant Lightstorm Entertainment,  Inc. (“Defendant”) RESPONDING PARTY: Plaintiff  Aric Cho, in pro per (“Plaintiff”) NOTICE: OK   RELIEF REQUESTED: Defendant  demurs to Plaintiff’s entire complaint.   TENTATIVE RULING: The unopposed demurrer is sustained without leave to amend.  Defendant’s request for judicial notice is granted.   BACKGROUND    Plaintiff  alleges that he was injured by the content of the film “Avatar: The Way of  Water” (“Avatar 2”), which he viewed on 12/16/22. On 12/19/22, Plaintiff filed  his complaint against Defendant in a related case, LASC Case No. 22CHCV01431 (“Cho  I”). On 6/23/23, the Court sustained Defendant’s demurrer against  Plaintiff’s first amended complaint without leave to amend.   On 6/26/23,  Plaintiff filed the instant complaint against Defendant. On 7/31/23, Defendant  filed the instant demurrer. No opposition has been filed to date.   ANALYSIS   As a general matter, a¿party may respond to a pleading  against it by demurrer based on any single or combination of eight enumerated  grounds, including¿that¿“the pleading does not state facts sufficient to  constitute a cause of action” or is uncertain, meaning “ambiguous and  unintelligible.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subds. (e) and (f).) In a demurrer  proceeding, the defects must be apparent on the face of the pleading or via  proper judicial notice.¿(Donabedian v. Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116  Cal.App.4th 968, 994.)   “A demurrer tests the pleading alone, and not the evidence  or facts alleged.” (E-Fab, Inc. v. Accountants, Inc. Servs. (2007) 153  Cal.App.4th 1308, 1315.) As such, the court assumes the truth of the  complaint’s properly pleaded or implied factual allegations. (Ibid.) The  only issue a demurrer is concerned with is whether the complaint, as it stands,  states a cause of action. (Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th  740, 747.)    Here, Defendant  demurs to Plaintiff’s entire complaint, arguing that Plaintiff’s claims are  barred by the doctrine of res judicata, and Plaintiff fails to state facts  sufficient to constitute any cause of action, and therefore the complaint is  fatally uncertain.   A.    Meet  and Confer   Before filing its demurrer, “the demurring party shall meet  and confer in person or by telephone with the party who filed the pleading that  is subject to demurrer for the purpose of determining whether an agreement can  be reached that would resolve the objections to be raised in the demurrer.”  (Code Civ. Proc. § 430.41, subd. (a).) The demurring party must file and  serve a meet and confer declaration stating either: “(A) The means by which the  demurring party met and conferred with the party who filed the pleading subject  to demurrer, and that the parties did not reach an agreement resolving the  objections raised in the demurrer;” or “(B) That the party who filed the  pleading subject to demurrer failed to respond to the meet and confer request  of the demurring party or otherwise failed to meet and confer in good faith.” (Id.  at subd. (a)(3).)   Here, Defendant’s counsel declares that on 7/19/23, she telephoned  Plaintiff and sent him a meet and confer email regarding the issues raised in  the instant demurrer, but the parties were unable to come to a resolution. (Decl.  of Jordyn Ostroff ¶ 5.) Accordingly, the Court finds that counsel has satisfied  the preliminary meet and confer requirements of Code of Civil Procedure section  430.41, subdivision (a).   B.     Res  Judicata   Res  judicata, or claim preclusion, “applies when (1) the decision in the prior  proceeding is final and on the merits, (2) the present proceeding is on the  same cause of action as the prior proceeding, and (3) the parties in the  present proceeding or parties in privity with them were parties to the prior  proceeding. Upon satisfaction of these conditions, claim preclusion bars not  only issues that were actually litigated but also issues that could have been  litigated. (Planning & Conservation League v. Castaic Lake Water Agency  (2009) 180 Cal.App.4th 210, 226 [internal quotations and citations omitted].)   Here,  Defendant argues that “this action against Lightstorm is Cho’s second attempt  to allege that Lightstorm violated his right of publicity and inflicted  emotional distress by making the film Avatar: The Way of Water.” (Dem.  2:11–13.) The Court agrees.   In Cho I,  Plaintiff alleged that Defendant used his “manner and character” in the film  without his consent, causing him emotional distress, and the Court ultimately  entered judgment on the pleadings for Defendant and against Plaintiff. (Cho  I FAC 1:24–25, 2:11–15.) Here, Plaintiff alleges that “the cause of action  is picturing plaintiff’s childhood for pay and not paying for work.” (Compl.  2:1.)   As  Defendant asserts, “a generous reading of the complaint suggests Cho may once  again be attempting to allege causes of action for intentional infliction of  emotional distress and misappropriation of his likeness. But those causes of  action and the allegations underlying them were already addressed by the  Court’s order sustaining Lightstorm’s demurrer in Cho I.” (Dem.  1:16–19.) “These causes of action are either identical to or should have been  brought in Cho I, in which judgment was entered for Lightstorm.” (Id.  at 3:17–18.)   The Court  notes that Plaintiff has failed to oppose the instant demurrer. Based on the  foregoing, the Court finds that Plaintiff’s claims against Defendant in the  instant action are barred by the doctrine of res judicata. Accordingly, the  demurrer is sustained on this ground without leave to amend. The Court notes  Defendant’s additional arguments regarding the defects in the pleading,  including its uncertainty and failure to allege facts sufficient to support any  cause of action, but need not reach them based on the foregoing.   CONCLUSION    The demurrer is sustained  without leave to amend.