 Case Number:  23CMCV00018    Hearing Date:   December 14, 2023    Dept:  A 
23CMCV00018
 Lathasha James v. City of Los Angeles
Thursday,
 December 14, 2023, at 8:30 a.m.
 
[TENTATIVE]
ORDER GRANTING MOTION BY
 LOS ANGELES COUNTY METROPOLITAN TRANSPORTATION AUTHORITY FOR LEAVE TO FILE A
 CROSS-COMPLAINT AGAINST CITY OF LOS ANGELES 
I.       
BACKGROUND
      The
complaint alleges claims for premises liability and negligence arising from
injuries sustained by Plaintiff when she fell because of an allegedly dangerous
condition. The City of Los Angeles (“City”) filed a cross-complaint against
Roes for indemnity, apportionment of fault, and declaratory relief. 
      Defendant
Los Angeles County Metropolitan Transportation Authority (“Metro”) moves for an
order granting leave to file a cross-complaint against Defendant City. Although
Metro filed its answer on July 13, 2023, Metro did not file a cross-complaint
because its investigation had not yet commenced, and it was required to comply
with claims presentation requirements under the Government Tort Claims Act.
After receiving Plaintiff’s responses to written discovery, Metro obtained
additional information to evaluate the incident. Metro will assert claims for
indemnity declaratory relief, contribution, and apportionment of fault. 
      Metro
timely served Defendant City with this motion on November 14, 2023, by
electronic transmission. City did not file an opposition by December 1, 2023, (nine
court days before the hearing). (Code Civ. Proc., § 1005 subd. (b).) 
II.     
DISCUSSION
      A
party against whom a cause of action has been asserted in a complaint may file
a cross-complaint setting forth either a cause of action against any of the
parties who filed the complaint, or any cause of action he has against a person
alleged to be liable, whether such person is already a party. (Code
Civ. Proc., § 428.10 (b)). Leave
to file or amend a cross-complaint may be granted so long as the moving party
acted in good faith. The statute is liberally construed to avoid forfeiture. (Code
Civ. Proc., § 426.50).
      Metro
acted in good faith in not filing the cross-complaint at the time of its answer
as it could not do so prior to complying with the Government Code’s
requirements for presenting a claim. (Gov.
Code, § 945.6.) Accordingly, the motion is GRANTED. Metro
is ordered to file its cross-complaint forthwith.        