  Case Number:  22CMCV00144    Hearing Date:   December 14, 2023    Dept:  A 
22CMCV00144
 Amcor Lighting Inc., dba Jiao Guang USA Group v. Parmida, LLC, et al.
Thursday,
 December 14, 2023, at 8:30 a.m.
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER
DENYING
  MOTION BY
 INDIVIDUAL DEFENDANTS, HAMID MAHROU AND PEYMAN MAHROU, FOR SUMMARY ADJUDICATION
 OF ISSUES
 
I.       
BACKGROUND
       The
complaint filed on May 24, 2022, alleges that Plaintiff contracted to provide
custom lighting and fixtures to Defendants, who allegedly failed to pay the
balance due of $684,625.77. Plaintiff alleges claims for breach of contract,
account stated, common counts, open book account, and quantum meruit.
II.     
ARGUMENTS
       Defendants,
Hamid Mahrou (“Hamid”) and Peyman Mahrou (“Peyman”), collectively,
“Defendants”) move for adjudication of all causes of action as there is an
absence of evidence showing that the Defendants are the alter egos of
Defendant, Parmida, LLC (“Parmida”).  Plaintiff
argues that the facts supporting each element necessary to invoke the alter ego
doctrine are controverted. 
       In
reply, Defendants contend Plaintiff failed to raise any triable issues of
material fact. Plaintiff’s evidence is speculation and unsupported by any evidence.

 
III.   
LEGAL STANDARDS
       A party can move for summary adjudication
“as to one or more causes of action within an action, one or more affirmative
defenses, one or more claims for damages, or one or more issues of duty, if the
party contends that the cause of action has no merit, that there is no
affirmative defense to the cause of action, that there is no merit to an
affirmative defense as to any cause of action, [or] that there is no merit to a
claim for [punitive] damages.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c subd.
(f)(1).) A motion for
summary adjudication shall be granted only if it completely disposes of a cause
of action, an affirmative defense, a claim for damages, or an issue of duty. (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c. subd.(f)(1).)
       The court applies the three-step
analysis to motions for summary judgment or adjudication: (1) identify the
issues framed by the pleading, (2) determine whether the moving party
established facts which negate the opponents’ claim, (3) if the moving party
meets its threshold burden of persuasion and the burden shifts, determine
whether the opposing party has controverted those facts with admissible evidence.
(Torres v. Reardon (1992) 3 Cal.App.4th 831, 836.) 
IV.   
DISCUSSION
       The
complaint alleges that Defendants are liable for the debt owed to Plaintiff
because the Defendants dominated and controlled Parmida, Defendants used
Parmida as a conduit for their personal affairs, and as an obligor for the Defendants’
liabilities. Plaintiff alleges that Defendants operated Parmida pursuant to a
scheme or plan whereby Parmida’s income and profits were converted by
Defendants. (Complaint, ¶¶ 8.a – e.) Plaintiff alleges that adherence to the
fiction of the entity as separate from the individuals will sanction inequity
and promote injustice. (Id.) 
       Liability
based on an alter ego theory is not itself a claim for substantive relief, but
rather a procedural claim “to disregard the corporate entity as a distinct
defendant and to hold the alter ego individuals liable on the obligations of
the corporation where the corporate form is being used by the individuals to
escape personal liability, sanction a fraud, or promote injustice." (Hennessey's
Tavern, Inc. v. American Air Filter Co. (1988) 204 Cal.App.3d 1351, 1359.)
Courts will ignore the corporate entity and deem the corporation’s acts to be
those of the persons actually controlling the corporation "when the
corporate form is used to perpetuate a fraud, circumvent a statute, or
accomplish some other wrongful or inequitable purpose.” (Cam-Carson,
LLC v. Carson Reclamation Authority (2022) 82 Cal.App.5th 535, 549.) 
       Application
of the doctrine requires Plaintiff to establish two elements: (1) a unity of
interest and ownership between the corporation and its equitable owner that the
separate personalities of the corporation and the shareholder do not in reality
exist, and (2) “there must be an inequitable result if the acts in question are
treated as those of the corporation alone.’” (Cam-Carson
at 549.)  
       The
test for a “unity of interest” encompasses a non-exhaustive list of factors only
some of which may be sufficient to invoke the doctrine “under the particular
circumstances of each case.” (Morrison
Knudsen Corp. v. Hancock, Rothert & Bunshoft
(1999) 69 Cal.App.4th 223, 249.) These factors
include (1) [c]ommingling of funds and other assets, (2) failure to segregate
funds of the separate entities, (3) the unauthorized diversion of corporate
funds or assets to other than corporate uses, (4) treating corporate assets as
the individual’s own assets (5) failure to maintain minutes or adequate
corporate records or corporate formalities (6) the identical equitable
ownership in the two entities, (7) domination and control over the corporation
by the individuals, (8) failure to adequately capitalize the corporation and
(9) absence of corporate assets. (Morrison
at 249–250.) 
 
A.      The
motion is procedurally defective. 
       Defendants
attempt to establish that Plaintiff’s assert only one theory of liability based
on the alter ego doctrine. Plaintiff disputes this assertion because of
evidence showing that Plaintiff requested a “personal guarantee letter”
promising to make scheduled payments to Plaintiff. (Plaintiff’s Ex. 8, page
27). Peyman prepared and signed a “guarantee letter.” (Plaintiff’s Ex. 8, page 26.)

       A
motion for summary adjudication shall be granted only if it completely disposes
of a cause of action, an affirmative defense, a claim for damages, or an issue
of duty. (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c(f)(1).) Therefore, even if Defendants
prevailed in challenging the alter ego theory, liability based on a “personal
guarantee” theory remains a basis for the claims; none of the claims can be
disposed. This procedural defect is fatal and a basis for denying the motion.
       The
motion is also denied for an independent reason; triable issues of fact remain
on the alter ego theory of liability as further discussed. 
 
B.      Defendants’
objections to Plaintiff’s evidence. 
       Declaration
of Tom C. Tsay, Plaintiff’s counsel 
       #1. Exhibit 5. Overruled. The printout of Parmida’s California
Secretary of State Information is subject to judicial notice. (Evid. Code, §
452(c) [official acts of the executive, judicial, and legislative departments.].)
The court has discretion to
take judicial notice of documents absent a party’s formal request and “on its
own volition.” (Scott v. JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. (2013) 214 Cal.App.4th 743, 752.) A
document signed by Alex Padilla, affixing the state seal, affirms that Parmida
is an authorized California Corporation in good standing.  (Plaintiff’s Ex. 1, Bates No. 3.)
       #2. Exhibit 12. Sustained. Declaration of
process server stating that “managers” confirmed the parties have an account at
the virtual mailbox center” is hearsay. 
       #3-4. Exhibit 13, 14. Sustained. Declaration
of process server quoting a current resident is hearsay.
 
Declaration
of Joel Rosner, defense counsel, dated 9/25/23.
       #5. Exhibit 4.
Overruled. Defendant Hamid Mahrou’s Response to Interrogatory #2. Hamid
represented to a third person that his company is wholly owned by him and his
son, Peyman. It is Hearsay but admitted as an Admission against a Party Opponent
(Evid. Code §1220.)

 
C.     
Analysis
of facts and evidence. 
       Where summary judgment is based on the
absence of evidence as Defendants argue here, Defendants must make an
affirmative showing by way of “direct or circumstantial evidence that the
plaintiff not only does not have but cannot reasonably expect to obtain a prima
facie case.” (Hagen v. Hickenbottom (1995) 41 Cal.App.4th 168, 186 [A moving defendant may not shift the
burden “simply by suggesting the possibility that the plaintiff cannot prove
its case.”].)  To that end, Defendants
can rely on Plaintiff’s “factually devoid discovery responses” to shift the
burden of proof to Plaintiff to identify specific facts to prove the existence
of a triable issue of material fact. (Kaney v. Custance (2022) 74 Cal.App.5th 201, 212.)
       In Hagen, the plaintiffs' answers
to Union Bank's interrogatories “reflected no more than the plaintiffs'
conclusionary belief that Union Bank had acted ‘knowingly and
fraudulently’; such answers strongly supported an inference that the plaintiffs
had no facts to support their theory.” (Hagen at 186.) Here, Plaintiff’s
state facts to support the alter ego theory: admissions by Hamid, documents
filed with the California Secretary of State and the Mississippi Secretary of
State, including annual reports and Defendants’ Mississippi registration. (See,
for example, UF[1] 6,
8, 10, 12, and 14.) Therefore, Defendants’ argument is not supported by
Plaintiff’s discovery responses. 
       Defendants are required to show not only
the absence of facts, but also that Plaintiff “cannot reasonably obtain” such
facts. That burden is not met because Plaintiff has proffered admissible
evidence to support a “unity of interest” between Defendants and Parmida. 
       Hamid is identified as a “member of
Parmida” in documents filed with the California and Mississippi Secretaries of
State; as an officer and director; as a manager, member, and president. (Plaintiff’s
Exs. 1 -4.) Hamid is listed as Parmida’s “manager or member” and authorized
agent for service of process. (Plaintiff’s Ex. 6.) 
       Peyman signed a “personal guarantee” indicating
Parmida’s intent to abide with a payment schedule. (Plaintiff’s Ex. 8.) Plaintiff
dealt exclusively with Peyman and Hamid with respect to Parmida’s account. (Id.) Hamid has been Parmida’s managing
member since its inception. Accordingly, Defendant’s contention that none of
the documents produced by Plaintiff provide a basis for alter ego liability is
disputed. (DP 27). Plaintiff’s evidence supports an inference of singular
control by Defendants. 
       Plaintiff proffers additional facts that Parmida
failed to adhere to corporate formalities and filing requirements as Parmida
has a history of being delinquent, subject to penalties and suspended or
subject to suspension. (PAF[2]
101.) Plaintiff requested production of Parmida’s operating agreement (Doc. Req
10), meeting minutes and list of members (Doc. Req. 13-14), Parmida’s financial
statements for the past five years (Doc. Req. 19), capital investments made by
Parmida’s members (Doc. Req. 17), and Parmida’s lease agreements (Doc. Req. 18)
among other documents. (Plaintiff’s Ex. 15). In response, Defendants state
Parmida does not maintain a formal list of members, but otherwise objected to
the discovery request on grounds of confidentiality. (Plaintiff’s Ex. 16.) Hamid
repeatedly represented that he and his son are the only owners of Parmida. (PAF
118.) Parmida’s annual report was due to be filed with the California Secretary
of State on December 31, 2021, but the LLC’s history does not indicate that one
was ever filed. 
       Accordingly, Plaintiff’s evidence disputes
Defendants’ contention of a lack of evidence to invoke alter ego liability. Fact
27 remains in dispute. 
V.     
CONCLUSION
       Based
on the foregoing, Defendants’ Motion for Summary Adjudication is DENIED. 
       
       
       
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


