 Case Number:  23STCV15242    Hearing Date:   November 16, 2023    Dept:  17 Superior
Court of California
County
of Los Angeles
 
DEPARTMENT 17
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 



REDWOOD
  LIQUIDATING CO., 
                           
         vs.
 
PAUL
  HASTINGS, LLP 
 
 


 Case No.: 
  23STCV15242
 
 
 
 
 Hearing
  Date:  November 16, 2023



 
Plaintiff’s
motion to disqualify ger, Tolles & Olson LLP as counsel is DENIED.
 
            On
6/30/2023, Plaintiff Redwood Liquidating Co. (Plaintiff) filed suit against
Paul Hastings, LLP (Defendant), alleging legal malpractice. 
 
            Now,
Plaintiff moves to disqualify the law firm of Munger, Tolles & Olson LLP
(MTO) as counsel for the Defendant.
 
Discussion 
 
            Plaintiff
argues that MTO must be disqualified as Defendant’s counsel because MTO is
representing Defendant in a matter substantially related to MTO’s previous
representation of Plaintiff. 
 
            In
this case, Plaintiff has brought a claim for legal malpractice against
Defendant for negligently drafting board consents to implement critical
corporate governance changes. Plaintiff alleges that these improperly drafted
corporate documents, coming at a critical time in the life of the Company,
caused its financial ruin. 
 
Over the
course of several months in 2020, MTO consulted with Plaintiff’s former CEO and
logged around fifty hours representing the Company in a dispute with Foresite
Capital (the Foresite Dispute). In the Foresite Dispute, Foresite alleged that
Plaintiff and its CEO made misstatements related to Plaintiff’s confidential
gene-sequencing technology, product development timelines, commercialization
plans, fundraising efforts, investor discussions, valuation models, revenue
projections, and financial information, and that those misstatements devalued
the Company and caused Foresite to lose the value of its investment in the
Company. 
 
Plaintiff
argues that MTO’s representation of Defendant puts many of the same subjects
from the Foresite Dispute at issue here, such that “much of the same
information material to MTO’s prior representation is now material to Paul
Hastings’ defenses in this case.” (Motion, 1: 26-27.) 
 
“A trial
court’s authority to disqualify an attorney derives from the power inherent in
every court ‘[t]o control in furtherance of justice, the conduct of its
ministerial officers, and of all other persons in any manner connected with a
judicial proceeding before it, in every matter pertaining thereto.’” (Ontiveros
v. Constable (2016) 245 Cal. App. 4th 686, 694 (quoting People ex rel.
Dept. of Corps. v. SpeeDee Oil Change Sys., Inc. (1999) 20 Cal. 4th 1135,
1145 (quoting Code Civ. Proc., § 128(a)(5))).)
 
“[A] basic
obligation of every attorney is [t]o maintain inviolate the confidence, and at
every peril to himself or herself to preserve the secrets, of his or her
client.” (SpeeDee Oil Change Sys., Inc. (1999) 20 Cal. 4th 1135, 1146
[citations and quotations omitted].) To protect the confidentiality of the
attorney-client relationship, under California Rules of Professional Conduct
Rule 1.9(a), a “lawyer who has formerly represented a client in a matter shall
not thereafter represent another person in the same or a substantially related
matter in which that person’s[ ] interests are materially adverse to the
interests of the former client unless the former client gives informed written
consent.”
 
“[T]he
substantial relationship test is ‘intended to protect the confidences of former
clients when an attorney has been in a position to learn them.’” (H.F.
Ahmanson & Co. v. Salomon Bros., Inc. (1991) 229 Cal. App. 3d 1445,
1455.) “Where the requisite substantial relationship between the subjects of
the prior and the current representations can be demonstrated, access to
confidential information by the attorney in the course of the first
representation (relevant, by definition, to the second representation) is presumed
and disqualification of the attorney’s representation of the second client is
mandatory; indeed, the disqualification extends vicariously to the entire
firm.” (Flatt v. Superior Ct. (1994) 9 Cal. 4th 275, 283) (emphasis in
original.)
 
A direct
professional relationship exists, for purposes of a conflict of interest
analysis, “when the attorney knowingly obtains material confidential
information from the client and renders legal advice or services as a result.”
(SpeeDee Oil Change Sys., Inc., supra, 20 Cal. 4th at p. 1138.) “Even
the briefest conversation between a lawyer and a client can result in the
disclosure of confidences.” (Id. at p. 1148 [citations omitted]; see
also People ex rel. Deukmejian v. Brown (1981) 29 Cal. 3d 150, 166– 167
(holding an attorney-client relationship formed after a single conference); Knight
v. Ferguson (2007) 149 Cal. App. 4th 1207, 1212–13 (in affirming
disqualification, court rejected argument that attorney’s three meetings
regarding potential litigation were “remote and peripheral” and held attorney’s
“role as litigation counsel was brief, but was not peripheral”).
 
Plaintiff
argues that MTO directly represented Plaintiff in the early stage of the
Foresite Dispute, and obtained confidential information as a part of that
representation. For example, Plaintiff argues that “MTO’s earlier
representation of Plaintiff in the Foresite Matter involved privileged
consultations and advice related to product development and commercialization,
fundraising and investor communications, valuation, financial performance, and
litigation strategy.” (Motion, 8: 14-17.) 
 
Then to demonstrate
that MTO was in a position to learn confidential information in connection with
representing Plaintiff in the Foresite Dispute that is material to the current
case, Plaintiff set forth the following evidence (with care to not divulging
client confidences): 
 
-        
At least nine conferences between MTO
and CEO Esfandyarpour regarding the Foresite Dispute, including a four-hour initial
consultation regarding Company documents and “case background” (see Younis
Decl., Ex. H, Invoice);
 
-        
Numerous emails between MTO and
Esfandyarpour regarding the Foresite Dispute (see, e.g., Younis Decl., Ex. C
Preservation Email; Ex. E, June 11, 2020 Letter; Fisher Decl., Ex. G, September
7, 2023 Letter from S. Senator to E. Fisher);
 
-        
Numerous internal conferences, memos,
and email exchanges between MTO attorneys regarding the Foresite Dispute (see
Younis Decl., Ex. H, Invoice);
 
-        
Numerous MTO attorneys who are
currently associated with the firm or were associated with the firm when MTO
began representing Defendant performed work for the Company and Esfandyarpour
in connection with the Foresite Dispute (Fisher Decl. ¶ 17);
 
-        
MTO has worked on its defense of Paul
Hastings for more than six months and has not implemented an ethical screen to
prevent access to files related to the Foresite Dispute (Fisher Decl. ¶ 14);
 
-        
The June 1, 2020 Letter from Brian to
Quinn Emanuel references “confidential information regarding Genapsys, its
technology, and its business relationships” (Fisher Decl., Ex. E, June 1, 2020
Letter); and
 
-        
The June 11, 2020 Letter from Fry to
Quinn Emanuel, copying Brian, along with Quinn Emanuel’s June 26, 2020 Response
Letter, reference confidential information regarding Plaintiff’s management,
employees, directors, personnel, technology, or products. (Younis Decl., Exs.,
E, I.)
 
In
opposition, MTO disputes that the substantial-relationship rule is implicated
because: (1) when MTO served as counsel to GenapSys (Redwood’s predecessor) it
did so alongside Paul Hastings, whose representation of GenapSys spanned a much
longer period of time and covered subject matters that included the very same
issues MTO was addressing; and (2) the matters between this case and the
previous representation are not substantially related.
 
As to the
first point, to show that Paul Hastings knew what MTO knew throughout MTO’s
relatively brief relationship with Plaintiff, MTO submitted evidence that:
            
-        
Foresite first sought company
information from GenapSys following a March 2020 board meeting attended by Paul
Hastings partner Jeff Hartlin. (Hartlin Decl., ¶ 8.) 
 
-        
GenapSys resisted some of Foresite’s
requests for what it saw as competitively-sensitive information and turned to
Paul Hastings for advice. On April 27, 2020, Mr. Hartlin received a formal
books and records demand directly from Foresite’s counsel, Quinn Emanuel LLP
(“Quinn”). (Id., ¶¶ 9–10, 14; Exs. 1–2.) 
Paul Hastings—Mr. Hartlin and his litigation partner Eddie Han—drafted a
response to the demand. (Id., ¶ 11.)
 
-        
With Paul Hastings’ knowledge, GenapSys
also consulted the now-retired MTO partner David Fry regarding the books and
records response. (Id., ¶ 12.) MTO’s work was narrowly circumscribed, lasting
about one-and-a half months. Paul Hastings’ long-term representation continued.
(Id., ¶ 23.) With Mr. Fry at the helm, MTO’s role centered on what books and
records information GenapSys was legally obligated to provide and preserve.
(Fry Decl., ¶¶ 4, 15, 22.)
 
-        
On May 4, Mr. Fry joined an “extended
telephone conference” to discuss the books and records request with GenapSys’
CEO Dr. Esfandyarpour and Paul Hastings partner Mr. Han. (Hartlin Decl., ¶
15(e), Ex. 3; Fry Decl., ¶ 8.) Mr. Fry then assisted Paul Hastings in
finalizing the initial response Paul Hastings had already prepared, which Paul
Hastings sent to Quinn later that day. (Ibid.) Paul Hastings and MTO thereafter
worked together on a formal response, and on strategies to avoid suit. (Fry
Decl., ¶¶ 8–15.)
 
-        
Paul Hastings remained GenapSys’
counsel and participated in all material decisions throughout MTO’s
representation. (E.g., Hartlin Decl., Exs. 4–5.) Paul Hastings and MTO
exchanged line edits on draft responses. Paul Hastings received information
from MTO at GenapSys’ instruction. Paul Hastings regularly discussed all
significant aspects of the Foresite request and the response with GenapSys’
board and senior leadership—sometimes with MTO present, sometimes as sole legal
counsel. (Hartlin Decl., ¶ 19 & Exs. 6, 8–9.) GenapSys made clear Mr. Fry
was free to share with Paul Hastings any material information learned from
GenapSys, and he freely did so. (Fry Decl., ¶ 8.)
 
-        
MTO recorded 52.7 hours of time to this
limited effort, approximately one-third of the time recorded by Paul Hastings
on the same issues. (Fry Decl., ¶ 26; Hartlin Decl., ¶ 15.) Mr. Fry handled the
substance, sometimes consulting with then-MTO partner Mark Kim (in-house with
an unrelated client since 2022), and in coordination with Paul Hastings. (Fry
Decl., ¶ 7). When it came time to deliver a formal response to Foresite on June
1, Mr. Fry asked MTO partner Brad Brian to assist, as he had obtained a favorable
jury verdict in a trial against Quinn, the counsel to whom the response would
be sent. (Id., ¶¶ 7, 17.) Mr. Fry gave Mr. Brian a summary of the
circusmtances—all known to Paul Hastings—and asked him to sign the response. (Id.,  ¶ 17-18; Brian Decl. ¶¶ 2-5.) Mr. Brian spent
a total of 1.8 hours on the matter. (Brian Decl. ¶¶ 4-6.) 
 
-        
MTO never appeared in or represented
GenapSys or Dr. Esfandyarpour in the litigation. (Id., ¶ 24.) MTO never
interviewed witnesses about Foresite’s allegations, never reviewed documents to
determine their merits or impact, and never strategized with GenapSys about how
to defend against Foresite’s lawsuit. (Ibid.) Within days of Foresite’s
filing, GenapSys instead engaged with Glaser Weil to represent it in the litigation—and
continued its relationship with Paul Hastings. (Hartlin Decl., ¶ 12.) GenapSys
never executed MTO’s proposed engagement letters and never paid MTO for any of
the work performed. (Fry Decl. ¶ 6.) 
 
After view,
the Court agrees that the evidence demonstrates that the information conveyed
to MTO was shared with Paul Hastings as well and nothing MTO learned from
GenapSys was not also, and concurrently, known to Paul Hastings. Paul Hastings
had itself been present for the entirety of MTO’s work for GenapSys and privy
to all information related to that work. (Id., ¶ 13.) As such, there are no
GenapSys confidences that MTO “could [] inappropriately disclose[]” to Paul
Hastings, as Paul Hastings is already privy to the company’s confidential
information. (Beachcomber Mgmt. Crystal Cove, LLC v. Super. Ct (2017) 13
Cal.App.5th 1105
 
The Court of
Appeal has considered an analogous situation in which an attorney represented
first a contractor, and then the contractor’s bond issuer against that
contractor, with respect to the defense that the contractor tendered to the
bond issuer. (Cornish v. Super. Ct (1989) 209 Cal.App.3d 476, 475). The
Court of Appeal held this was not a disqualifying conflict: the contractor’s
communications with the attorney could not have been “made in confidence with a
reasonable expectation the communications would not be shared” with the bond
issuer. (Ibid.)
 
Given the
conclusion that MTO does not possess any confidential information unknown to
Paul Hastings, the substantial-relationship test, which arises out of the “the
need to protect the first client’s confidential information,” is not
implicated. However, the Court briefly notes that MTO’s motion persuasively
shows the matters are not substantially related.
 
The three
relevant factors for consideration are legal similarity, factual similarity,
and the “nature and extent of the attorney’s involvement.” (Adams v.
Aerojet-General Corp. (2001) 86 Cal.App.4th 1324, 1332.) First, the legal
issue in MTO’s Foresite work was the scope of GenapSys’ duty to share its
records with an investor. Here, the legal issues in Redwood’s action are
whether there was a breach of any duty of care in drafting certain board
consents and, if so, what damages Redwood may properly claim. Second, MTO’s
earlier representation was “strictly limited” to a discrete subject; it did not
concern the consents Paul Hastings would draft the next year. As attested by
Mr. Fry, MTO was not involved in developing strategy for opposing the Foresite
complaint; nor was MTO in a position to evaluate Foresite’s post-filing claims
against GenapSy.(See H.F. Ahmanson & Co. v. Salomon Bros., Inc.
(1991) 229 Cal.App.3d 1445, 1456 [crediting attorney declaration that matters
were factually distinct and that law firm had not “provide[d] any advice on the
subject of” successive matter].) As such, the Court agrees that the
representations lack a “crucial factual thread” that runs through both
representations. (W. Cont’l Operating Co. v. Nat. Gas Corp. (1989) 212
Cal.App.3d 752, 760.) Third, the nature and extent of MTO’s involvement was
brief, discrete, and limited.
 
Together,
these factors demonstrate that MTO’s representation of GenapSys in the books
and records demand is not substantially related to its current representation
of Paul Hastings.
 
Based on the
foregoing, Plaintiff’s motion to disqualify MTO as counsel is denied. 
 
 
It is so ordered. 
 
Dated:  November   
, 2023
                                                                                                                                                           
   Hon. Jon R.
Takasugi
   Judge of the
Superior Court
 
 
 
Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must
send an email to the court at smcdept17@lacourt.org
by 4 p.m. the day prior as directed by the instructions provided on the court
website at www.lacourt.org.  If a party submits
on the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must
identify the party submitting on the tentative. 
If all parties to a motion submit, the court will adopt this
tentative as the final order.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  For more information, please contact the court clerk at (213)
633-0517.  
 
 