 Case Number:  23AHCV02644    Hearing Date:   June 4, 2024    Dept:  P [TENTATIVE]
ORDER GRANTING DEFENDANT’S MOTION TO COMPEL ARBITRATIONI.        INTRODUCTION
           This case involves a breach of contract action arising
from a real estate transaction. Plaintiffs Robert and Vergine Martirossian
allege that Defendants Unikex LLC, Xiaolin Li, Nartin Inc., Universal Realty
Inc., Xiao Zhang and Hudson Insurance Co. breached the real estate purchase
agreement between them by fraudulently representing that the property had been
recently repaired, was in good condition and that the systems in the housing
(plumbing, HVAC etc.) functioned properly. The complaint contains eleven causes
of action: (1) Breach of Contract, (2) Violation of Civil Code, (3) Fraudulent
Concealment, (4) Negligent Misrepresentation, (5) Negligence, (6) Breach of
Implied Warranty, (7) Strict Liability, (8) Recovery of Contractor’s State
License Bond, (9) Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress, (10) Negligent
Infliction of Emotional Distress, and (11) Unfair Competition.
Defendant
Unikex filed this motion on January 18, 2024. Plaintiff filed an opposition on May
21, 2024.
The
motion is granted.
 
           II. REQUEST FOR JUDICIAL NOTICE
           Plaintiffs request judicial notice of all documents filed
in this case thus far and certain acts of the Los Angeles County Recorder’s
Office.
Though
it is not necessary to take judicial notice of papers already in the court
file, the request is granted.  (See Evid.
Code, § 452, subd. (d).) (Evid. Code § 453; Scott v. JP Morgan Chase Bank,
N.A. (2013) 214 Cal.App.4th 743, 754-755.) To the extent that these
documents are official acts of the Los Angeles County Recorder’s Office,
judicial notice is granted. (EC § 452(c).)
           The Court takes judicial notice of Exhibits 1-3.
 
 
 
III.     LEGAL
STANDARD
Code
Civ. Proc. §1281 provides: “A written agreement to submit to arbitration an
existing controversy or a controversy thereafter existing is valid,
enforceable, and irrevocable, save upon such grounds as exist for the
revocation of any contract.” (CCP § 1281.)
Paraphrased,
Code Civ. Proc. §1281.2 provides that upon petition of a party to an
arbitration agreement alleging the existence of a written agreement to
arbitrate and a party’s refusal to submit to arbitration, the court shall
order the parties to arbitrate the controversy if it determines (1) that an
agreement exists, (2) unless it determines that the right to arbitrate
has been waived, that grounds exist for revocation, or that a party
to the agreement is also party to a pending litigation arising out of the same
facts and there exists a possibility of conflicting rulings on a common issue
of fact or law. (CCP § 1281.2.)
 
IV.     ANALYSIS
           A Written Agreement to Arbitrate Exists
When a petition to compel arbitration is “filed and
accompanied by prima facie evidence of a written agreement to arbitrate the
controversy, the court itself determines whether the agreement exists and, if
any defense to its enforcement is raised, whether it is enforceable.” (Rosenthal v.
Great Western Fin. Securities Corp. (1996) 14 Cal.4th 394, 413 (Rosenthal).)  Defendant bears the burden of establishing
the existence of a written agreement to arbitrate. 
In this case, Defendant Unikex offers as evidence
the declaration of Aren Debrasreghian, its attorney, who attaches as Exhibit 1 copies
of letters sent between the parties which allegedly reference the arbitration
agreement. These documents reference scheduling mediation. It is unclear to the
Court whether parties voluntarily agreed between themselves to schedule
mediation or whether it was pursuant to an agreement. These letters are not
prima facie evidence of an arbitration agreement. 
However, the motion also incorporates language of
the Residential Purchase Agreement. (Exh. A to Complaint.) Plaintiffs have also
requested the Court take judicial notice of this document.
The agreement consists of ten pages. At the bottom
of the eighth page, in bolded words appears, “ARBITRATION OF DISPUTES.
The Parties agree
that any dispute or claim in Law or equity arising between them out of this
Agreement or any resulting transaction, which is not settled through mediation,
shall be decided by neutral, binding arbitration.” Underneath these words
are separate signature lines signed by both Plaintiff Robert and Defendant
Xiaolin Li. Xiaolin is the owner of Defendant Unikex LLC.
Based on this record, the Court concludes that
Plaintiffs agreed to the arbitration agreement. 
The language of the arbitration provision is broad.
It covers, “any dispute or claim in Law or equity arising between them out of
this Agreement or any resulting transaction”. After that, there is a notice in
bold and capitalized font “NOTICE: BY INITIALING IN THE SPACE BELOW
YOU ARE AGREEING TO HAVE ANY DISPUTE ARISING OUT OF THE MATTERS INCLUDED IN THE
ARBITRATION OF DISPUTES' PROVISION DECIDED BY NEUTRAL ARBITRATION AS PROVIDED
BY CALIFORNIA LAW AND YOU ARE GIVING UP ANY RIGHTS YOU MIGHT POSSESS TO HAVE
THE DISPUTE LITIGATED IN A COURT OR JURY TRIAL.” 
This language is broad enough to cover the claims
alleged in this lawsuit, as the claims arise out of the Purchase Agreement.   
In opposition, Plaintiffs urge that there is no
arbitration provision between it and Defendant Unikex. However, Defendant
Xiaolin Li is the sole owner of Defendant Unikex and signed the arbitration
agreement. The Court does not agree that Li did so in his individual capacity,
as the Agreement provides that the sale is between Robert and Unikex.
(Complaint Exh. A p. 1.) Li signed on behalf of his company.
 
V.       CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
Defendant has presented evidence establishing the
existence of a signed agreement to arbitrate. That agreement encompasses the
claims alleged by Plaintiffs. The agreement was signed, and the claims are not precluded
from going to arbitration. Consequently, the motion is granted, and this action
is stayed. A post-arbitration status conference is set for December 4, 2024 at 8:30 a.m.  The
parties are ordered to file a joint Status Report at least five (5) days before
the  status conference.
Defendant
Unikex LLC is ordered to give notice of this ruling.
           
 
           
Dated: 6/2/24                                                    ________________________________
                                                                              
         JARED D. MOSES
                                                                         JUDGE
OF THE SUPERIOR COURT