 Case Number:  23STCV28872    Hearing Date:   August 8, 2024    Dept:  39  TENTATIVE RULING
 



DEPT:


39




HEARING DATE:


August 8, 2024




CASE NUMBER:


23STCV28872




MOTIONS:  


Motions to Compel Depositions




MOVING PARTY:


Plaintiff Yuehua Tuo




OPPOSING PARTY:


None



 MOTIONS
            Plaintiff
Yuehua Guo (“Plaintiff”) moves to compel Defendants AWA Forged Composites LLC, Bryan Gill, and Tamra Bosson (“Defendants”) to appear for depositions, and to
produce documents identified in the deposition notices.  Defendants have not opposed the motions.
ANALYSIS
Pursuant to Code
of Civil Procedure section 2025.450, if a party to the action fails to appear
and testify at deposition after service of a deposition notice, and the party
has not served a valid objection to that deposition notice, the party that
noticed the deposition may move for an order to compel the deponent to attend
and testify at deposition.  (Code Civ.
Proc., §2025.450, subd. (a).)  
Plaintiff served
Defendants with notices of depositions.  Defendants
did not object to the deposition notices. 
To date, Defendants have not appeared for the depositions.  Accordingly, the motions are granted.
Plaintiff requests
sanctions in connection with the motions. 
The court finds Defendants’ failure to appear for their depositions is
an abuse of the discovery process, and awards sanctions.  The court imposes sanctions against
Defendants in the amount of $5,334.55, which represents four hours of attorney
time to prepare the motions and attend the hearing at $450 per hour, plus $3,534.55
in costs for the attendance of court reporters at depositions for which
Defendants failed to appear.
CONCLUSION AND ORDER
Plaintiff’s motion to compel Defendants to
appear for depositions and to produce documents identified in the deposition
notices is granted.  Defendants are to
appear for depositions within 7 days of the notice of this order, unless Plaintiff
stipulates otherwise.  The scope of each
deposition is as set forth in the notices of depositions attached to the
Declarations of Brad S. Kane in support of the motions.  The court does not authorize any further
discovery and considers discovery closed except as set forth in this order.
Defendants, jointly and severally, are to pay
sanctions in the amount of $5,334.55 to Plaintiff, by and through
counsel, within 30 days of notice of this order.
Plaintiff is ordered to provide notice of
this order and to file proof of service of same.
 