 Case Number:  23STCV11602    Hearing Date:   January 16, 2025    Dept:  68 Dept.
68
Date:
1-16-25
Case
23STCV11602
Trial
Date: 1-21-25
 
SUMMARY JUDGMENT/SUMMARY ADJUDICATION
 
MOVING
PARTY: Defendant, Walker & Zanger, LLC
RESPONDING
PARTY: Plaintiff, Wendy Viridinia Solano-Castro
 
RELIEF
REQUESTED
Motion
for Summary Judgment
 
Summary
Adjudication
·        
1st
Cause of Action: Negligence
·        
2nd
Cause of Action: Strict Liability Failure to Warn
·        
3rd
Cause of Action: Strict Liability Design Defect
·        
4th
Cause of Action: Fraudulent Concealment
·        
5th
Cause of Acton: Breach of Implied Warranties
·        
Claim
for Punitive Damages
 
SUMMARY
OF ACTION
Wendy
Viridinia Solano-Castro, et al. alleges the wrongful death of Raul Garcia-Leon
caused from as a stone fabricator and installer. Plaintiffs contend working
with “toxic” stone products led to the development of silicosis and death of
Garcia-Leon on February 16, 2023.
 
On
May 22, 2023, Plaintiff filed a 582 paragraph complaint for negligence, strict
liability – warning defect, strict liability – design defect, fraudulent
concealment, and breach of implied warranties. On May 31, 2023, Plaintiff a 235
page first amended complaint for negligence, strict liability – warning defect,
strict liability – design defect, fraudulent concealment, and breach of implied
warranties. The action names a multitude of parties comprised of suppliers,
sellers, etc. The case was deemed non-complex on June 5, 2023, and assigned to
Department 68 on June 7, 2023. 
 
On
October 11, 2023, the court sustained the demurrer to the first amended
complaint brought by MS International, Inc. to the fourth cause of action with
20 days leave to amend. On October 18, 2023, the court overruled the demurrer
to the fourth cause of action brought by M S International, Inc. On November 2,
2023, Caesarstone USA, Inc. filed a cross-complaint for indemnity, declaratory
relief and apportionment. On December 29, 2023, Lowes Home Centers, LLC filed a
cross-complaint indemnity, declaratory relief and apportionment.
 
On
September 5, 2024, the court granted the motion for trial preference based on
the age of Rebecca Garcia at the time of the filing of the motion.
 
RULING: Denied.
Evidentiary
Objections to the Deposition Transcript of Cesar Quiroz: Overruled.
Evidentiary
Objections to the Declaration of Dr. Kenneth Rosenman: Overruled.
No
objections by Plaintiffs on file.
 
Defendant
Walker & Zanger, LLC (Walker Zanger) moves for summary judgment on the
entire complaint, and alternatively, summary adjudication on the entire
complaint, and the claim for punitive damages. Walker Zanger moves on sole
ground of lack of evidence establishing exposure, causation, and malice,
oppression, or fraud. Plaintiffs in opposition challenge the motion on grounds
that Walker Zanger fails to shift the burden of proof, due to the lack of
sufficient competent evidence, and contends they provide affirmative evidence
of exposure, causation, and corporate knowledge. 
 
The pleadings frame the issues for motions, “since it is those
allegations to which the motion must respond. (Citation.)” (Scolinos v. Kolts (1995) 37 Cal. App.
4th 635, 640-641; FPI Development, Inc. v. Nakashima
(1991) 231 Cal.App.3d 367, 382-383; Jordan-Lyon
Prods., LTD. v. Cineplex Odeon Corp. (1994) 29 Cal.App.4th 1459, 1472.)
The purpose of a motion for summary judgment or summary adjudication “is to
provide courts with a mechanism to cut through the parties’ pleadings in order
to determine whether, despite their allegations, trial is in fact necessary to
resolve their dispute.” (Aguilar v. Atl.
Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 843.) 
“Code of Civil Procedure section 437c, subdivision (c), requires the trial
judge to grant summary judgment if all the evidence submitted, and ‘all
inferences reasonably deducible from the evidence’ and uncontradicted by other
inferences or evidence, show that there is no triable issue as to any material
fact and that the moving party is entitled to judgment as a matter of
law.”  (Adler v. Manor Healthcare Corp. (1992) 7 Cal.App.4th 1110,
1119.)  
 
“On a motion for summary judgment, the initial burden is
always on the moving party to make a prima facie showing that there are no
triable issues of material fact.” (Scalf
v. D.B. Log Homes, Inc. (2005) 128 Cal.App.4th 1510, 1519.) A defendant
moving for summary judgment “has met his or her burden of showing that a cause
of action has no merit if the party has shown that one or more elements of the
cause of action . . . cannot be established.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (p)(2).) “Once the defendant . . . has
met that burden, the burden shifts to the plaintiff . . . to show that a
triable issue of one or more material facts exists as to the cause of action or
a defense thereto.” (Ibid.) 
 
A defendant may alternatively move for summary judgment on
grounds that Plaintiff lacks
sufficient evidence, and cannot reasonably obtain necessary evidence in support
of the claims.¿(Aguilar v. Atl.
Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th at pp. 854-855; Collin
v. CalPortland Co. (2014)
228 Cal.App.4th 582, 587; Andrews v. Foster Wheeler LLC (2006) 138 Cal.App.4th 96, 101; Union Bank v. Superior Court (1995) 31 Cal.App.4th 573, 590.) The
court adheres to this standard for product liability cases, such as asbestos
and crystalline silica (e.g. latent exposure leading to mesothelioma or
silicosis).
 
“When deciding whether to grant summary judgment, the court
must consider all of the evidence set forth in the papers (except evidence to
which the court has sustained an objection), as well as all reasonable
inference that may be drawn form that evidence, in the light most favorable to
the party opposing summary judgment.” (Avivi v. Centro Medico Urgente Medical Center (2008) 159
Cal.App.4th 463, 467; see also Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (c).) “An
issue of fact can only be created by a conflict in the evidence.  It is not created by speculation, conjecture,
imagination or guesswork.”  (Lyons v. Security Pacific National Bank
(1995) 40 Cal.App.4th 1001, 1041 (citation omitted).)
 
Walker Zanger relies on denial of any supply, manufacture,
or distribution of silica containing products utilized by Decedent while
employed as a fabricator. The position relies on a challenge to Plaintiffs’
evidence by way of devoid discovery responses.
 
The court finds the subject matter analogous to
asbestos litigation on the basis of latent injury caused by a dangerous
product, and therefore applies the substantial factor standard in the subject
action. (Lineaweaver v. Plant Insulation
Company (1995) 31 Cal.App.4th 1409, 1415, 1419.) “In the context of a cause
of action for asbestos-related latent injuries, the plaintiff must first
establish some threshold exposure to the
defendant's defective asbestos-containing products, and must further establish in reasonable medical probability
that a particular exposure or series of exposures was a “legal cause” of his
injury, i.e., a substantial factor in bringing
about the injury. In an asbestos-related cancer case, the plaintiff need not prove that fibers from the defendant's product were the
ones, or among the ones, that actually began the process of malignant cellular
growth. Instead, the plaintiff may meet the burden of proving that exposure to
defendant's product was a substantial factor causing the illness by showing
that in reasonable medical probability it contributed to the plaintiff or
decedent's risk of developing
cancer.” Rutherford v. Owens-Illinois,
Inc. (1997) 16 Cal.4th 953, 982. “[W]e conclude that the proper
analysis is to ask whether the plaintiff has proven exposure to a defendant's
product, of whatever duration, so that exposure is a possible factor in causing
the disease and then to evaluate whether the exposure was a substantial
factor.”  (Lineaweaver v. Plant Insulation Company, supra, 31
Cal.App.4th at p. 1416.)  Exposure by a
contributing party, among many, is sufficient to establish triable issues of
material fact.  The calculation of the
probabilities of whether even limited exposure constituted a substantial factor
is more appropriately addressed before the trial court.  (Id.
at pp. 1417-1419.)
 
“In the
context of a cause of action for asbestos-related latent injuries, the
plaintiff must first establish some threshold exposure to the
defendant's defective [] products, and must further
establish in reasonable medical probability that a particular exposure or
series of exposures was a ‘legal cause’ of his injury, i.e., a substantial
factor in bringing about the injury. In a[] [silicosis] case, the
plaintiff need not prove that [particulate]
from the defendant's product were the ones, or among the ones, that actually
began the process of malignant cellular growth. Instead, the plaintiff may meet
the burden of proving that exposure to defendant's product was a substantial
factor causing the illness by showing that in reasonable medical probability it
contributed to the plaintiff or decedent's risk of developing
[silicosis].” (Rutherford v. Owens-Illinois,
Inc. (1997) 16 Cal.4th 953, 982.)
 
Other than citation to discovery responses regarding
the basis of the complaint, including the performance of stone fabrication work
without sufficient protective equipment, the court finds no substantive basis
for the challenge to the insufficiency of evidence by Plaintiffs regarding the
placement of Walker Zanger manufactured and/or distributed silica containing
artificial stone products on the premises of any and all of Decedent’s
employers during the relevant exposure period. [See Declaration of Dennis M.
Baker.] The conclusive argument and reliance on denial of sufficient evidence
fails to shift the burden. (See McGonnell
v. Kaiser Gypsum Co., Inc. (2002) 98
Cal.App.4th 1098, 1103-1104; Scheiding v. Dinwiddie Const.
Co. (1999) 69 Cal.App.4th 64, 81.) 
 
The court alternatively finds triable issues of material
fact based on the presence of Walker Zanger products on the premises of
Decedent’s place of employment during the relevant time period, and records of
sale involving Walker Zanger products. Walker Zanger actually produces an
invoice showing the sale of Walker Zanger slabs to Decedent’s co-worker Cesar
Quiroz who testifies in the unhighlighted portion that it was directed to him,
“Manny,” and that he and Decedent worked on them. [Declaration of Dennis M.
Baier, Exhs. D-E.] Further, Plaintiffs present testimony identifying Walker
Zanger products for Bernadino’s shop. [Declaration of Brian P. Barrow:
Deposition of Cesar Quiroz, 144:16-145:3, 945:12-946:21, 947:14-24.] There is
also evidence that the exposure to said silica containing stone products caused
exposure and led to the silicosis diagnosis and death. [Declaration of Kenneth Rosenman.]
 
The motion for summary judgment and motion for summary
adjudication reliant on the absence of sufficient exposure and causation is
therefore DENIED. 
 
On punitive damages, Walker Zanger additionally challenges the
sufficiency against the corporate entity. It generally states that Plaintiffs have
no evidence to support this claim. Plaintiffs’ opposition lacks much legal
address as well.
 
On punitive damages, Civil
Code section 3294, subdivision (c) authorizes punitive damages upon a showing
of malice, oppression, or fraud, which are defined as follows:
 
(1) “Malice” means
conduct which is intended by the defendant to cause injury to the plaintiff or
despicable conduct which is carried on by the defendant with a willful and
conscious disregard of the rights or safety of others.
(2) “Oppression”
means despicable conduct that subjects a person to cruel and unjust hardship in
conscious disregard of that person’s rights.
(3) “Fraud” means an
intentional misrepresentation, deceit, or concealment of a material fact known
to the defendant with the intention on the part of the defendant of thereby
depriving a person of property or legal rights or otherwise causing injury.
 
“‘[M]alice does not require actual
intent to harm. [Citation.] Conscious disregard for the safety of another may
be sufficient where the defendant is aware of the probable dangerous
consequences of his or her conduct and he or she willfully fails to avoid such
consequences. [Citation.] Malice may be proved either expressly through direct
evidence or by implication through indirect evidence from which the jury draws
inferences.’ [Citations.]”  (Pfeifer
v. John Crane, Inc. (2013) 220 Cal.App.4th 1270, 1299.) 
 
Again, Walker Zanger presents no actual evidence in
support of its contentions, and only generally points to an absence of evidence
without much address. The court additionally finds triable issues of material
fact on the basis of knowledge, ratification, and malice. [Declaration
of Brian P. Barrow, Exh. 1; Declaration of Dennis M. Baier, Exh. G, Responses
to Special Interrogatories.] (White v. Ultramar, Inc. (1999)
21 Cal.4th 563, 576–577; Cruz
v. HomeBase (2000)
83 Cal.App.4th 160, 168.) The motion for summary adjudication is therefore
denied in its entirety. 
 
In summary, the court denies the motion for summary judgment
and summary adjudication.
 
Walker Zanger to give notice to all parties.Dept.
68Date:
1-16-25Case
23STCV11602Trial
Date: 1-21-25 SUMMARY JUDGMENT/SUMMARY ADJUDICATION MOVING
PARTY: Defendants, Arriaga USA, Inc., Color Marble
Inc., and CSS Distributions, Inc.RESPONDING
PARTY: Plaintiff, Wendy Viridinia Solano-Castro RELIEF
REQUESTEDMotion
for Summary Judgment Summary
Adjudication·        
1st
Cause of Action: Negligence·        
2nd
Cause of Action: Strict Liability Failure to Warn·        
4th
Cause of Action: Fraudulent Concealment·        
Claim
for Punitive Damages SUMMARY
OF ACTIONWendy
Viridinia Solano-Castro, et al. alleges the wrongful death of Raul Garcia-Leon
caused from as a stone fabricator and installer. Plaintiffs contend working
with “toxic” stone products led to the development of silicosis and death of
Garcia-Leon on February 16, 2023. On
May 22, 2023, Plaintiff filed a 582 paragraph complaint for negligence, strict
liability – warning defect, strict liability – design defect, fraudulent
concealment, and breach of implied warranties. On May 31, 2023, Plaintiff a 235
page first amended complaint for negligence, strict liability – warning defect,
strict liability – design defect, fraudulent concealment, and breach of implied
warranties. The action names a multitude of parties comprised of suppliers,
sellers, etc. The case was deemed non-complex on June 5, 2023, and assigned to
Department 68 on June 7, 2023.  On
October 11, 2023, the court sustained the demurrer to the first amended
complaint brought by MS International, Inc. to the fourth cause of action with
20 days leave to amend. On October 18, 2023, the court overruled the demurrer
to the fourth cause of action brought by M S International, Inc. On November 2,
2023, Caesarstone USA, Inc. filed a cross-complaint for indemnity, declaratory
relief and apportionment. On December 29, 2023, Lowes Home Centers, LLC filed a
cross-complaint indemnity, declaratory relief and apportionment. On
September 5, 2024, the court granted the motion for trial preference based on
the age of Rebecca Garcia at the time of the filing of the motion. RULING: Denied.Request
for Judicial Notice by Defendants: Granted.Evidentiary
Objections to the Declaration of Brian P. Daly: Overruled.Evidentiary
Objections to Declaration of Kenneth Rosenman: Overruled. Evidentiary Objections to Supplemental Metzger Declaration: Overruled; not
timely filed by 14-day opposition deadline, and therefore not considered. Defendants
Arriaga USA, Inc., Color Marble Inc., and CSS Distributions, Inc.(Defendants)
move for summary judgment on the entire complaint, and alternatively, summary
adjudication on the first, second, and fourth causes of action, and the claim
for punitive damages. Defendants moves on multiple grounds, including: Superseding
intervention, sophisticated intermediary doctrine, and lack of evidence
establishing fraudulent concealment and punitive damages. Plaintiffs in opposition
challenge the motion on grounds that Defendants fails to shift the burden of
proof on ground of insufficient competent evidence and denial of application of
the sophisticated intermediary defense. In reply, Defendants argue that
Bernardino Sanchez is Decedent’s employer, didn’t implement workplace safety
measures, and that safety data sheets needed to be provided only upon request
by Defendants as retail sellers.   The pleadings frame the issues for motions, “since it is those
allegations to which the motion must respond. (Citation.)” (Scolinos v. Kolts (1995) 37 Cal. App.
4th 635, 640-641; FPI Development, Inc. v. Nakashima
(1991) 231 Cal.App.3d 367, 382-383; Jordan-Lyon
Prods., LTD. v. Cineplex Odeon Corp. (1994) 29 Cal.App.4th 1459, 1472.)
The purpose of a motion for summary judgment or summary adjudication “is to
provide courts with a mechanism to cut through the parties’ pleadings in order
to determine whether, despite their allegations, trial is in fact necessary to
resolve their dispute.” (Aguilar v. Atl.
Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 843.)  “Code of Civil Procedure section 437c,
subdivision (c), requires the trial judge to grant summary judgment if all the
evidence submitted, and ‘all inferences reasonably deducible from the evidence’
and uncontradicted by other inferences or evidence, show that there is no
triable issue as to any material fact and that the moving party is entitled to
judgment as a matter of law.”  (Adler v. Manor Healthcare Corp. (1992) 7
Cal.App.4th 1110, 1119.)   “On a motion for summary judgment, the initial burden is
always on the moving party to make a prima facie showing that there are no
triable issues of material fact.” (Scalf
v. D.B. Log Homes, Inc. (2005) 128 Cal.App.4th 1510, 1519.) A defendant
moving for summary judgment “has met his or her burden of showing that a cause
of action has no merit if the party has shown that one or more elements of the
cause of action . . . cannot be established.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (p)(2).) “Once the defendant . . . has
met that burden, the burden shifts to the plaintiff . . . to show that a
triable issue of one or more material facts exists as to the cause of action or
a defense thereto.” (Ibid.)  A defendant may alternatively move for summary judgment on
grounds that Plaintiff lacks
sufficient evidence and cannot reasonably obtain necessary evidence in support
of the claims.¿(Aguilar v. Atl.
Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th at pp. 854-855; Collin
v. CalPortland Co. (2014)
228 Cal.App.4th 582, 587; Andrews v. Foster Wheeler LLC (2006) 138 Cal.App.4th 96, 101; Union Bank v. Superior Court (1995) 31 Cal.App.4th 573, 590.) The
court adheres to this standard for product liability cases, such as asbestos
and crystalline silica (e.g. latent exposure leading to mesothelioma or silicosis). “When deciding whether to grant summary judgment, the court
must consider all of the evidence set forth in the papers (except evidence to
which the court has sustained an objection), as well as all reasonable
inference that may be drawn form that evidence, in the light most favorable to
the party opposing summary judgment.” (Avivi v. Centro Medico Urgente Medical Center (2008) 159
Cal.App.4th 463, 467; see also Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (c).) “An
issue of fact can only be created by a conflict in the evidence.  It is not created by speculation, conjecture,
imagination or guesswork.”  (Lyons v. Security Pacific National Bank
(1995) 40 Cal.App.4th 1001, 1041 (citation omitted).) Defendants contend superseding conduct intervenes any
causation claims. Defendants argue that Decedent’s employer, Bernardino
Sanchez, failure to implement workplace safety measures to protect decedent
from occupational exposures supersedes any act or omission by Defendants. In
reliance on this position, Defendants provide the declaration of Brian P. Daly.
Plaintiffs in opposition counter that Bernadino Sanchez was never an employer
of Decedent and was therefore not obligated to provide safety equipment. Sanchez
also denies ever seeing any material data safety sheets or otherwise
understanding the warning labels on the slabs in terms of silica hazards.
Plaintiffs also represent triable issues of material fact exist on the defense
based on “misuse” doctrine.  Superseding causation constitutes an exception to
reliance on substantial factor causation. (Ash
v. North American Title Co. (2014) 223
Cal.App.4th 1258, 1277 accord Soule v. General Motors Corp. (1994) 8 Cal.4th 548, 573 (footnote 9) [“This principle is
distinct from the defense of ‘superseding cause,’ which absolves a tortfeasor,
even though his conduct was a substantial
contributing factor, when an independent event intervenes in the chain of
causation, producing harm of a kind and degree so far beyond the risk the
original tortfeasor should have foreseen that the law deems it unfair to hold
him responsible”]. “The use
of the terms ‘superseding’ or ‘superseding cause’ in these opinions should not
be confused with the doctrine of superseding cause which relieves an actor of
liability notwithstanding that the actor was a cause in fact of the injury for
which recompense was sought. ‘A
superseding cause is an act of a third person or other force which by its
intervention prevents the actor from being liable for harm to another which his
antecedent negligence is a substantial factor in bringing about.’ (Rest.2d Torts, § 440.)
In California the doctrine requires more than mere negligence on the part of
the intervening actor. ‘[T]he fact that an intervening act of a third person is
done in a negligent manner does not make it a superseding cause if a reasonable
man knowing the situation existing when the act of the third person is done
would not regard it as highly extraordinary that the third person so acted or
the act is a normal response to a situation created by the defendant's conduct
and the manner in which the intervening act is done is not extraordinarily
negligent.’” (Doupnik v.
General Motors Corp. (1990) 225 Cal.App.3d 849, 862-863.) The motion itself
lacks specific address of the standard, and simply cites to the existence of
federal regulations regarding disclosure requirements, and Daly’s declaration
regarding these requirements as an employer. The court declines to make the
arguments for the Federal Communications Act simply based on citation to
federal regulations and reiteration in reply.  The failure to
provide safety sheets to stone fabricators on the premises (challenged by
Sanchez) otherwise insufficiently establishes any extraordinary negligence or
otherwise altered the foreseeability of harm caused by the stone cutting
operations. Defendants only rely on federal regulations, and provide no
evidence that Sanchez was in fact Decedent’s employer, or that Defendants
provided any actual warnings or safety data sheets to anyone at all. Of the
reviewed, admissible evidence, the court finds insufficient consideration of
the standard presented. (Doupnik v.
General Motors Corp., supra,
225 Cal.App.3d at pp. 862-863.)  The deposition
testimony provided is further insufficient to show alleged superseding conduct.
[Declaration of Rey S. Yang, Exhs. D-F: Deposition of Cesar Quiroz.] The Daly
declaration only provides the requirements of the federal regulations for an employer
but does not address whether Sanchez is Decedent’s employer or whether Sanchez
complied with the regulations, or anything regarding superseding causation. Again,
the court finds mere citation to federal regulation standards insufficiently
establishes a basis for relief under the Federal Hazards Communications
Act or superseding causation. Further, as noted above, Defendants have not
provided any evidence that Sanchez was Decedent’s employer or that they
provided any warnings of any type themselves. The court notes that these are
not even material facts presented in their separate statement. Even if Defendants shifted the burden, the court finds
triable issues of material fact on the issue of reasonableness in the alleged
conduct, including under the guise of federal regulations, the existence of any
employment relationship between Sanchez and Decedent, and the existence of any
warnings provided by Defendants. [Ibid.; Declaration of Brian P. Barrow:
Depositions of Bernardino Sanchez, Cesar Quiroz, and Susana Jeng.] On the second ground, Defendants challenge the action under sophisticated
intermediary. The sophisticated intermediary defense requires a product
manufacturer to establish that a sophisticated intermediary should have
provided the safety precautions. (Webb v. Special Electric Co., Inc. (2016)
63 Cal.4th 167, 185-86.) The sophisticated intermediary defense requires the
producer to provide adequate warnings to the intermediary, and then allows the
producer to rely on the intermediary to pass along those warnings. (Ibid.)
It is the producer’s burden to show it warned the intermediary. (Ibid.) Defendants
provide no evidence it adequately warned a sophisticated intermediary thus this
argument fails.    Defendants cite cases such as Gonzalez v. Mathis (2021)
12 Cal.5th 29, 44-45, which make the employer liable when it fails to use
reasonable safety precautions or measures for known occupational hazards.
However, as stated above, Defendant provided no evidence that these were known
occupational hazards at the time of Decedent’s use of the product or to
Plaintiff’s purported employer, or that Sanchez was Decedent’s employer at all. Defendants also cite to the “obvious danger” standard within
the sophisticated user defense: “The obvious danger rule is an objective test, and the
courts do not inquire into the user's subjective knowledge in such a case. In
other words, even if a user was truly unaware of a product's hazards, that fact
is irrelevant if the danger was objectively obvious. ...  Thus, under the sophisticated user defense,
the inquiry focuses on whether the plaintiff knew, or should have known, of the
particular risk of harm from the product giving rise to the injury.” (Johnson v. American Standard, Inc. (2008) 43 Cal.4th 56, 71.) While the danger of silica dust
finds medical support (See Declaration of Kenneth Rosenman), Defendants actually
make no argument regarding the obvious nature of the dangers, and instead
defect liability to Sanchez based on being Decedent’s employer again. The
argument provides no evidentiary support establishing the “obvious” nature of
such an injury. The reply also does not provide any cogent argument regarding
this. The court declines to find as a matter of law that such a danger exists
for purposes of ruling on the motion and incorporates its analysis above. The
court therefore finds Defendants, again, fail to shift the burden. (See McGonnell v. Kaiser Gypsum Co., Inc., supra, 98 Cal.App.4th at pp. 1103-1104; Scheiding v. Dinwiddie Const. Co., supra, 69 Cal.App.4th at p. 81.)  The court notes that Defendants
improperly make new arguments in reply regarding the employer relationship and retail
seller status, though these arguments should have been made in the moving
papers to shift the burden, and further there still is insufficient evidence in
support of either proposition for purposes of summary judgment. The court therefore DENIES the
motion for summary judgment based on the failure to establish a complete
defense on this basis. Plaintiff additionally establishes triable issues of
material fact as discussed previously.  On the summary adjudication, to
the extent Defendants rely on the lack of causation due to superseding conduct
and sophisticated/intermediate user doctrine,
the court denies the motion for summary adjudication as to the first, second,
and fourth causes of action and claim for punitive damages. On the fraudulent concealment
cause of action and punitive damages claim, Defendants additionally challenges
the lack of any evidence in support of these claims. However, Defendants only
generally conclude that there is no evidence in one sentence arguments and cite
to no evidence in support of these contentions in either the moving papers or
separate statement. The conclusive argument and reliance on denial of
sufficient evidence fails to shift the burden. (See McGonnell v. Kaiser
Gypsum Co., Inc. (2002) 98 Cal.App.4th 1098, 1103-1104; Scheiding
v. Dinwiddie Const. Co. (1999) 69 Cal.App.4th 64, 81.) The motion for
summary adjudication is therefore denied in its entirety.  In summary, the court denies the motion for summary judgment
and summary adjudication. Defendants to give notice to all parties. 

