  Case Number:  23STCP01669    Hearing Date:   April 18, 2024    Dept:  86 


 
ROBERTSON TINIO, 
  


 
 
 
 
Petitioner,


 
 
 
 
Case No.
 


 
 
 
 
23STCP01669




vs.
 
 
CALIFORNIA BOARD OF REGISTERED NURSING,
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Respondents.
 


[TENTATIVE] RULING ON VERIFIED PETITION FOR WRIT
  OF ADMINISTRATIVE MANDAMUS
 
Dept. 86 (Hon. Curtis A. Kin)
 
 




 


 


 


 



Petitioner
Robertson Tinio petitions for a writ of mandate directing respondent California
Board of Registered Nursing to set aside its decision revoking petitioner’s nurse
license, staying the revocation, and placing petitioner on probation for three
years.
 
I.       Factual Background
 
A.          
Nursing
License and Employment
 
In
March 2006, petitioner obtained his Bachelor of Science in Nursing in the
Philippines. (AR 432.) The same year, he passed the Philippine Nurse Licensure
Examination, after which he became a fulltime registered nurse. (AR 433.)
Petitioner continued to work as a registered nurse until 2009, when he resigned
to attend medical school. (AR 433.) 
 
In
May 2013, petitioner graduated with a Doctor of Medicine degree. (AR 433.) In
2014, he was issued a physician’s license in the Philippines, where he worked
as a medical doctor and completed a year of residency in internal medicine. (AR
433.) Petitioner then came to the United States to practice as a registered
nurse. (AR 433.)
 
On
December 8, 2017, respondent California Board of Registered Nursing (“Board”)
issued a Registered Nurse License to petitioner Robertson Tinio. (AR 39.) 
 
Petitioner
worked at Oak River in California as a nightshift registered nurse for less
than a week in January 2019. (AR 433.) Oak River never filed a complaint
against petitioner with the Board. (AR 433.) Petitioner was then hired on
February 13, 2019, by Dialysis Clinic, Inc. (“DCI”) in California and resigned
on May 13, 2019. (AR 433.) DCI did not lodge any complaints against petitioner.
(AR 433.)
 
            From June 17, 2019 until August 13, 2019, petitioner was
employed by Vibra Hospital (“Vibra”) as a registered nurse (“RN”). (AR 443.)
Petitioner worked in the Long Term Acute Care unit. (AR 443.) While at Vibra, petitioner
always had a nurse preceptor with him. (AR 339.) A nurse preceptor is a nurse
expert or specialist who trains nurses with practical experience. (AR 339.) Petitioner
was never directly assigned patients. (AR 339.)
 
B.          
Complaint, Investigation, and Accusation
 
            On August 21, 2019, the Board received a complaint from the
Chief Nursing Officer at Vibra. (AR 443.) Petitioner was accused of having falsified
documentation, not having adequately read physician orders, and having engaged
in actions that could lead to patient harm or death. (AR 443.) Petitioner had
resigned from Vibra on August 13, 2019, after having been informed that he
would be suspended pending an investigation of allegations that he was not fit
to practice as an RN at Vibra. (AR 292, 338.) Prior to the complaint from
Vibra, petitioner did not have any history of disciplinary action. (AR 335.)
 
            From September 2019 through July 2020, Special
Investigator Kristy Whitmire (“Investigator”) investigated the complaint. (AR 62-66.)
Whitmire investigated petitioner’s performance at two of his previous employers
through interviews with employees and requests for documents. (AR 343-46.) 
 
With respect to Vibra, on
March 30, 2020, Whitmire requested petitioner’s employee records, employment
policies and procedures, and redacted medical records exhibiting petitioner’s
false documentation from Vibra. (AR 341.) In response to the request, Vibra
produced a written evaluation from Sally Thornton, dated September 10, 2019,
and Ashley Tiraterra’s orientation letter regarding petitioner, dated August
29, 2019. (AR 85 [Thornton written statement], 88-89 [Tiraterra written
statement]; AR 341.) Thornton served as petitioner’s nurse preceptor for nine
days in June and July 2019. (AR 342.) Tiraterra
trained petitioner for three days during the week of August 11-17, 2019. (AR
361.) Thornton and Tiraterra created their written statements at the request of
the Director of Nursing after petitioner resigned from Vibra. (AR 358, 361.) 
 
Despite having been asked
for redacted medical records on March 30, April 21 and 24, and May 5 and 14 of
2020, Vibra did not produce any records corroborating petitioner’s alleged
unsafe nursing practices. (AR 63-64, 342.) Vibra also did not produce classroom
training evaluations showing that Vibra’s Clinical Supervisor “had verified
[Tinio] as competent on June 18 and 20, 2019” in several of the areas in which
Vibra claimed Tinio was deficient two months later. (AR 353.)
 
Thornton stated in her
written statement that petitioner would chart assessments based on the prior
night’s assessments. (AR 85.) Tiraterra stated in her written statement that
petitioner did not know how long to push medication until she told him two
minutes. (AR 89.) Tiraterra also stated that petitioner admitted having copied
the night shift’s assessment that a patient, who was on 70 percent oxygen, was
on 40 percent oxygen. (AR 89.) 
 
Whitmire interviewed
Thornton. (AR 342.) Whitmire also interviewed petitioner. (AR 346-51.) Petitioner
denied not previously knowing that Dilaudid needed to be pushed for two minutes
and allowed for the possibility that Tiraterra reminded him. (AR 349-50.)
Petitioner also attributed his entry of 40 percent oxygen for a patient who was
on 70 percent oxygen to no one ever having told him not to copy assessments by
other staff. (AR 350.) Petitioner denied copying other staff’s assessments or
any other wrongdoing at Vibra. (AR 350-51.)
 
Whitmire also interviewed
Vibra’s Chief Nursing Officer (Sheba Saelee), Clinical Supervisor (Teri Burk), Director
of Nursing (Kathleen Brownfield), and Staff Educator (Alan Brown) by telephone
while they sat in a conference room together. (AR 66.) All these individuals
based their responses on statements from petitioner’s preceptors or other staff.
(AR 453-56.) Other than Thornton or petitioner, Whitmire did not interview
anyone with first-hand knowledge of petitioner’s provision of care to patients.
(AR 453-58.)
 
Based on the
investigation, Whitmire found that Vibra’s complaint was substantiated, and
that petitioner violated statutes and regulations prohibiting gross negligence,
incompetence, and unprofessional conduct. (AR 352.) The Board subsequently
filed an Accusation against petitioner for gross negligence, incompetence, and
unprofessional conduct while working as a RN at Vibra and the two previous
employers. (AR 14-17, 740-43.) 
 
C.          
Administrative Hearing
 
            The administrative hearing took place on December 12-14,
2022, before Administrative Law Judge Irina Tentser (“ALJ”). (AR 266.) The
following individuals testified at the hearing:
 
1.           
Kristy Whitmire
 
During the administrative
hearing, Whitmire testified regarding her investigation. (AR 85, 358, 973.) Whitmire
dismissed the omission of positive performance evaluations as irrelevant to
Vibra’s complaint. (AR 354.) 
 
 
 
 
2.           
Sally Thornton
 
Thornton oversaw
petitioner’s patient care, charting, and administration and provided petitioner
with near constant supervision. (AR 358, 974.) Thornton testified at the
hearing with respect to the following deficiencies in petitioner’s work
performance at Vibra:
 
·        
inappropriate bedside
manner by laughing at serious situations in front of patients and talking to
patients to make them feel upset; 
·        
never taking into
consideration the patient’s wants and needs;
·        
forcing administration of
medications into the computer more than once
and failing to see why
medication was not scanning;
·        
incorrectly charting pain
evaluations for patients despite being shown multiple times how to correctly
chart the evaluations by Thornton;
·        
an incident where
Thornton needed to draw blood from a patient who was difficult to draw blood
from (a hard stick), drew blood from the patient but needed to draw more and
left the room for more needles, telling [petitioner] to look for a new vein and
not throw any of the blood away. [Petitioner] threw out the blood and laughed
when Thornton educated him that she needed the blood. [Petitioner] then failed
to press the “triangle” to retract the blood despite Thornton’s repeated
instruction, leading Thornton to conclude [petitioner] “doesn’t listen to
directions.”
·        
Copying patient chart
assessments from the previous night instead of doing his own assessments;
·        
Failing to read
medication orders correctly and pulling one less than needed at times and would
not catch his error until he was in the patient’s room;
·        
Not reading the time and
day of IV [antibiotics] as needed;
·        
Forcing administration of
a 0500 hours medication at 2100 hours;
·        
Always hesitant to ask
for help and ask questions; and,
·        
Seemed to believe he
could work on his own and asked to work on his own despite Thornton not
agreeing he was ready to be in group alone.
 
(AR 358-60 [Decision],
975-85 [Thornton testimony].) Thorton testified that petitioner had never inaccurately
recorded a patient’s blood pressure. (AR 1014; see section I.C.4, infra.)

 
3.           
Ashley Tiraterra
 
            Tiraterra testified at the hearing with respect to the
following deficiencies in petitioner’s work performance at Vibra:
 
·        
Multiple issues pulling
out medications including narcotics, causing the
count to be wrong;
·        
On the second day of
Tiraterra’s preceptorship, [petitioner] administered Dilaudid to a patient
which Tiraterra felt she had to remind [petitioner] to flush before and after
because she believed he was going to forget to do the flushing unless she
reminded him. During that same Dilaudid administration, Tiraterra reported
[petitioner] “went to push it fast” and the patient told [petitioner], as
reported by Tiraterra, not to push Dilaudid fast or else [petitioner] was going
to kill someone. Tiraterra then quizzed [petitioner] how long he should always
push meds to be safe and [petitioner] did not answer until Tiraterra told him
two minutes;
·        
On the second day of
Tiraterra’s preceptorship, [petitioner] did not know how long a bag of “NS”
[normal saline] was good for; he incorrectly stated first four hours, then
eight hours, until Tiraterra corrected him that the bag was good for 24 hours;
·        
On the third day of
Tiraterra’s nurse preceptorship, [petitioner] entered the wrong bipap setting
(40 percent O2) for a patient who was on 70 percent O2. After he was questioned
by Tiraterra about where he got these numbers, [Petitioner] admitted to Tiraterra
he got them from the night shift.
·        
After the incident with
the O2 error on the third day of Tiraterra’s nurse preceptorship, [petitioner]
entered the wrong vitals on another patient he was assessing, entering eight
liters on a patient who was on six liters via nasal cannula.
 
(AR 362-63 [Decision], 921-31
[Tiraterra testimony].) 
 
4.           
Dr. Teresa Taylor   
 
            Dr. Teresa Taylor, the Board’s nursing standard of care
expert, testified during the hearing that petitioner was grossly negligent and incompetent
based on the following facts ascertained from her review of the Board’s
Investigation Final Report and its attached documents:
 
·        
[Petitioner] documented
40 percent O2 when the patient was on 70 percent O2, and when questioned where
the 40 percent number was derived from, [petitioner] noted it was from the
night shift assessment;
·        
[Petitioner] did not
assess another patient and incorrectly entered 8 liters (L) when the patient
was on 6L via nasal cannula at the time of his assessment;
·        
[Petitioner] required
repeated reminders to always flush with Normal Saline (NS) before and after
every IV push;
·        
While administering IV
Dilaudid, [petitioner] was pushing too rapidly instead of pushing slowly over
two minutes;
·        
[Petitioner] struggled
with labeling and hanging a bag of NS;
·        
[Petitioner] was unable
to put the NS into the IV pump correctly;
·        
[Petitioner] was unable
to program the pump with the correct rate ordered by the doctor; and.
·        
[Petitioner] documented
inaccurate Blood Pressures (BP).
 
(AR 363-65 [Decision], 1179-88 [Taylor testimony].) In
the administrative decision, the ALJ described the foregoing as “established
facts.” (AR 364.) 
 
5.           
Petitioner
 
Petitioner presented classroom
training evaluations verifying that he was competent in several areas of
nursing. (AR 353-54.) Beyond the classroom, the positive evaluations also
showed petitioner competently performing nursing tasks on actual patients—some of
which were similar to the skills later complained of by Vibra. (AR 1329-1332.)
 
Petitioner also denied
all allegations of wrongdoing at Vibra. (AR 366.) For example, he testified
that he struggled with hanging a bag of saline because the room was dark and
dim and Thornton did not want him to turn the lights on. (AR 1375-1376.) He
also testified that he did not copy the assessments from the night before but
would instead click the “no changes” box if he determined the patient had not
changed since the last assessment. (AR 1381-1382.) He also stated he never had
issues with patients asking him not to turn on the lights, to stop laughing, or
getting angry with him. (AR 1336-1337.) Petitioner denied he had ever
inaccurately documented a patient’s blood pressure. (AR 1380.) He further
testified he did not recall an incident where he was unable to program an IV
pump (AR 1379-1380) or when he supposedly “assess[ed] a patient as having been
on 8 liters of oxygen when the patient was only on 6 liters.” (AR 1383.) He
also did not remember ever documenting that a patient was on 40% oxygen when
the patient was on 70% oxygen. (AR 1382-1383.) He actually explained that “[he]
did not handle any patient with a BiPap machine under [Tiraterra’s]
preceptorship.” (AR 1383.) As to whether he would attempt to push IV
medications without flushing, petitioner testified that he “always flush[ed]” with
normal saline “before and after.” (AR 1383-1384.) With regard to the allegation
that petitioner “struggled with labeling . . . a bag of [normal saline],” petitioner
explained that Vibra’s pharmacy was responsible for labeling the medication. (AR
1376-1379.)
 
D.          
Decision
 
The ALJ issued a proposed
decision on January 13, 2023. (AR 266, 318.)
 
            With respect to petitioner’s two prior employers, the ALJ
found no cause to suspend or revoke petitioner’s license because the Board’s
allegations were not supported by clear and convincing direct or
contemporaneous evidence. (AR 286-89, 306-07.) 

 
            With respect to Vibra, however, the ALJ found that the
Board established cause to suspend or revoke petitioner’s license due to gross
negligence, incompetence, and unprofessional conduct. (AR 307.)
 
With respect to Thornton,
the ALJ found Thornton’s testimony credible. (AR 358.) The ALJ noted that
Thornton did not contemporaneously document any of the incidents concerning
petitioner’ s competence or provide physical corroborating documentation. (AR
360.) The ALJ also noted that Thornton’s written statement was prepared after
petitioner resigned from Vibra. (AR 358.) Nevertheless, the ALJ found Thornton
credible, because her testimony was consistent with her written statement and
her interview with Whitmire. (AR 358; see also AR 85.) The ALJ credited
Thornton’s direct observation of petitioner’s work, finding Thornton’s accounts
sufficient to satisfy the clear and convincing standard of proof. (AR 360-61.)  
 
With respect to
Tiraterra, the ALJ found that Tiraterra’s August 29, 2019 written statement and
hearing testimony clearly and convincingly established that petitioner engaged
in unprofessional conduct. (AR 89, 363.) 
 
With respect to
petitioner, the ALJ found that petitioner’s denial of any wrongdoing “was
self-serving and unsupported by credible corroborating evidence.” (AR 366.) The
ALJ also found that petitioner’s overall veracity was questionable based on his
inconsistent statements to Whitmire during the Board’s investigation. (AR 366.)
 
Based on Thorton and
Tiraterra’s accounts and the opinion of Dr. Taylor, the ALJ found that the
Board established “through clear and convincing evidence the Accusation’s
allegations that [petitioner]’s RN work at Vibra was grossly negligent,
incompetent, and constituted unprofessional conduct.” (AR 365.)
 
Considering aggravating
factors, the ALJ noted that, on August 13, 2019, the Board issued a citation to
petitioner based on a July 1, 2019 conviction for alcohol-involved reckless
driving.[1]
(AR 365-66.) The ALJ found that petitioner credibly testified that he has not
consumed alcohol since he was arrested and that he does not have any issues
concerning alcohol abuse. (AR 366.)
 
            Considering mitigating factors, the ALJ found that the
contemporaneous medical records and classroom training evaluations, which Vibra
did not produce during the investigation, were relevant mitigating and
rehabilitative evidence. (AR 354.) The ALJ also noted that, after August
2019, petitioner has had a positive employment history as an RN with the
California Department of Corrections & Rehabilitation (“CDCR”). (AR 366-67.)
As of July 16, 2022, petitioner was rated as meeting performance standards and
described as “reliable and responsible,” “receptive when training is required,”
and as “a valuable asset to the institution” whose “work ethic is greatly
appreciated by” petitioner’s peers and supervisors. (AR 367.) The ALJ also
found that petitioner’s positive performance in the classroom at Vibra
indicates that he has the requisite classroom knowledge to effectively function
as an RN. (AR 367.) Petitioner also submitted five character reference letters.
(AR 367-70.) Petitioner has also been pursuing a Master of Science in Nursing,
with a concentration in Adult Gerontology Primary Care Nurse Practitioner, from
Walden University. (AR 370.) 
 
            With respect to appropriate discipline, the ALJ found
that, although petitioner’s conduct was punishable by revocation of his
license, outright revocation would be excessive. (AR 376.) The ALJ considered
that petitioner’s deficiencies were limited to an eight-week period when he was
a new trainee, not a tenured employee. (AR 376.) As a result, no harm resulted
to any patient at Vibra. (AR 376.) The
ALJ also noted that more than three years had passed since petitioner’s
employment at Vibra. (AR 376.)
The ALJ noted that petitioner’s recent work evaluation at CDCR and character
reference letters were indicative of his competence as an RN. (AR 376.) The ALJ also found that petitioner’s prior
conviction did not constitute prior license discipline. (AR 376.) 
 
            Nevertheless, due to petitioner’s
“lack of candor and continuing inability to accept responsibility for his
actions,” the ALJ found that petitioner’s rehabilitation was incomplete. (AR 376.)
With respect to the appropriate discipline, the ALJ found: “Based on the
totality of the circumstances, a period of probation of three years is
necessary for Respondent to reflect on his past actions, to prevent potential
future recurrence, and to protect the public.” (AR 376.) The ALJ ordered that the registered
license issued to petitioner be revoked, but for such revocation to be stayed
and for petitioner to be placed on probation for three years under specified
conditions. (AR 378-86.) The ALJ found that petitioner shall practice only
under the direct supervision of a registered nurse in good standing with the
Board unless other methods of supervision or collaboration are approved. (AR
382.)
 
            On March 15, 2023, the Board adopted the ALJ’s proposed
decision and ordered it effective on April 14, 2023. (AR 333.) 
 
II.      Procedural History
 
On
May 12, 2023, petitioner filed a Verified Petition for Writ of Administrative
Mandamus. On June 6, 2023, respondent filed an Answer.
 
            On
September 5, 2023, the Court denied petitioner’s motion to stay operation of
the administrative decision. 
 
            On
February 15, 2024, petitioner filed an opening brief. On March 18, 2024, respondent
filed an opposition. On April 3, 2024, petitioner filed a reply. The Court has
received an electronic copy of the administrative record and a hard copy of the
joint appendix. 
 
 
 
 
III.     Standard of Review
 
Under CCP § 1094.5(b),
the pertinent issues are whether the respondent has proceeded without
jurisdiction, whether there was a fair trial, and whether there was a
prejudicial abuse of discretion. An abuse of discretion is established if the
agency has not proceeded in the manner required by law, the decision is not
supported by the findings, or the findings are not supported by the evidence.
(CCP § 1094.5(b).)
 
“When an administrative decision substantially
affects a fundamental vested right, such as the revocation of a professional
license or the right to practice one's profession, the independent judgment
standard of review applies.” (Rand v. Board of Psychology (2012) 206
Cal.App.4th 565, 574; see also Sulla v. Board of Registered Nursing
(2012) 205 Cal.App.4th 1195, 1200 [“A trial court reviewing an administrative
decision that imposes discipline on a professional licensee must exercise its
independent judgment based on the evidence before it”].) “The superior court
resolves evidentiary conflicts, assesses the witnesses' credibility, and
arrives at its own independent findings of fact.” (Ibid.) the proper
standard of proof in an administrative hearing to revoke or suspend a doctor's
license should be clear and convincing proof to a reasonable certainty
and not a mere preponderance of the evidence.” (Ettinger v. Board of
Medical Quality Assurance (1982) 135 Cal.App.3d 853, 856, italics in
original.) “Clear and convincing” means evidence that is “so clear as to leave
no substantial doubt” and “sufficiently strong to command the unhesitating
assent of every reasonable mind.” (In re Angelia P. (1981) 28 Cal.3d
908, 919, quoting Sheehan v. Sullivan (1899) 126 Cal. 189, 193.)
 
“In exercising its
independent judgment, a trial court must afford a strong presumption of
correctness concerning the administrative findings, and the party challenging
the administrative decision bears the burden of convincing the court that the
administrative findings are contrary to the weight of the evidence.”  (Fukuda
v. City of Angels (1999) 20 Cal.4th 805, 817, internal quotations omitted.)
A reviewing court “will not act as counsel for either party to an appeal and
will not assume the task of initiating and prosecuting a search of the record
for any purpose of discovering errors not pointed out in the briefs.” (Fox v. Erickson (1950) 99 Cal.App.2d
740, 742.) When an appellant challenges “‘the sufficiency of the evidence, all
material evidence on the point must be set forth and not merely their own
evidence.” (Toigo v. Town of Ross (1998) 70 Cal.App.4th 309, 317.)  
 
IV.     Analysis
 
            Petitioner seeks to set aside the March
15, 2023 “Decision and Order” on the grounds that the ALJ’s findings were not
supported by the weight of the evidence and that the findings do not support
the legal determination that petitioner acted with gross negligence,
incompetence, or with unprofessional conduct. 
 
 
 
A.          
Weight
of the Evidence
 
The ALJ found that the Board “established through
clear and convincing evidence [petitioner] was grossly negligent, incompetent,
and engaged in unprofessional conduct during his employment at Vibra.” (AR 371.)
Because this finding was the basis for the imposition of discipline affecting
petitioner’s RN license, the Court reviews the finding under the independent
judgment standard of review. 
 
1.           
Meanings and Application of Gross Negligence,
Incompetence, and Unprofessional Conduct
 
Business and Professions Code § 2761 allows the
Board to take disciplinary action against a licensed nurse for “unprofessional
conduct,” which includes “[i]ncompetence, or gross negligence in carrying out
usual certified or licensed nursing functions.” (Bus. & Prof. Code §
2761(a)(1).) 
 
            “Gross
negligence,” as used in Business & Professions Code § 2761, “includes an
extreme departure from the standard of care which, under similar circumstances,
would have ordinarily been exercised by a competent registered nurse. Such an
extreme departure means the repeated failure to provide nursing care as
required or failure to provide care or to exercise ordinary precaution in a
single situation which the nurse knew, or should have known, could have
jeopardized the client's health or life.” (16 C.C.R. § 1442.) 
 
            “Incompetence,”
as used in Business & Professions Code § 2761, is defined as “the lack of
possession of or the failure to exercise that degree of learning, skill, care
and experience ordinarily possessed and exercised by a competent registered
nurse as described in Section 1443.5. (16 C.C.R. § 1443.) Standards of
competent performance includes “perform[ing] skills essential to the kind of
nursing action to be taken.” (16 C.C.R. § 1443.5(3).) 
 
Here, based on the written statements and testimony
of the nurses who precepted petitioner, as well as the expert opinion presented
by the Board, a finding that petitioner was grossly negligent, incompetent, and
engaged in unprofessional conduct was supported. Thorton’s written statement
and testimony established that petitioner copied chart assessments from the
previous night instead of doing his own assessments, failed to read medication
orders correctly, and forced a medication to be taken at 9:00 p.m. instead of
5:00 a.m. as required. (AR 359-60.) Tiraterra’s written statement and testimony
established that petitioner pushed the medication Dilaudid too fast, did not
how long to push medications, and entered wrong vital signs in records. (AR
362-63.) Dr. Taylor, the Board’s expert on the nursing standard of care,
testified that copying chart assessments, failing to assess patients correctly,
failing to read medication orders correctly, forcing a medication to be taken
at an incorrect hour, pushing a medication too far, and entering wrong vital
signs in records could potentially harm patients, raises concerns of
competence, and constitutes gross negligence. (AR 1179-88.) 
 
Even if no patients were harmed because of
petitioner’s conduct, the finding of petitioner’s “gross negligence” remains. “Gross
negligence” can be found where the nurse knew, or should have known, that
departing from the standard of care could have jeopardized the patient’s health
or life. (16 C.C.R. § 1442.)  No actual
harm is required. Further, even though petitioner’s breaches of the standard of
care occurred during a twelve-day time period when petitioner was still in
training (AR 376), Dr. Taylor testified that the standards of care which petitioner
breached were basic expectations. (AR 1181, 1183-85.) The fact that petitioner
may have been in training does not excuse the failure to assess patients and
properly chart the assessment, as opposed to copying assessment from the prior
shift; to know to flush with normal saline before and after every IV push; and
to push medication slowly over two minutes—all of which are expectations of
every RN. 
 
The above instances are sufficient to establish
that petitioner could have jeopardized patient health and lacked the degree of
learning and skill ordinarily exercised by a competent RN. 
 
2.           
Evidentiary Value of Thornton and Tiraterra’s
Written Statements and Testimony
 
            Petitioner
contends that the decision to place him on three years of probation while the
revocation of his license was stayed was not supported by reliable evidence
because statements of petitioner’s alleged work performance deficiencies were
written at the direction of the Director of Nursing after petitioner resigned
from Vibra Hospital. The statements prepared by Thornton and Tiraterra after
petitioner had resigned still have evidentiary value. 
 
Even if the written statements were prepared at the
direction of Thornton and Tiraterra’s boss (AR 358, 360, 361), that fact alone
does not mean they contain any falsities. While coerced testimony is unreliable
(People v. Silveria (2020) 10 Cal.5th 195, 264), there is nothing about
the statements themselves to suggest they were the product of coercion.  Petitioner points to Thornton’s written
statement in which she wrote to the Director of Nursing that “I hope this is
what you wanted in an evaluation” of petitioner and that the Director should let
her know “[i]f it needs changes.” (AR 86.) But Thornton’s statements on their
face are neutral. That Thornton expressed hope that her evaluation was adequate
does not necessarily mean that the Director of Nursing told Thornton to be
untruthful.  Moreover, the prior written
statements were generally consistent with testimony adduced at the hearing, and
there is no indication in the ALJ’s decision that any testimony during the
hearing may have been coerced by any supervisor. 
 
Petitioner also argues that the written statements
were written on August 29 and September 10 of 2019, after petitioner had
resigned on August 13, 2019. (AR 85, 88-89, 292.) While the written statements
may not have been contemporaneously prepared and the short time delay before
they were created might have diminished their accuracy (see Taylor v. County
of Los Angeles (2020) 50 Cal.App.5th 205, 214), the ALJ did not make
findings regarding petitioner’s gross negligence, incompetence, and
unprofessional conduct based on the written statements alone. The ALJ also
considered the nurse preceptors’ testimony during the hearing, which the ALJ
found credible and consistent with the written statements. (AR 360-61, 363.) 
 
            In
the reply, petitioner argues that Thornton said in her written statement that
during the “hard stick” incident, after petitioner failed to draw blood,
Thornton “attempted and got the blood.” (AR 85.) However, during the hearing,
Thornton first said that she would have had someone else, as opposed to her,
get the blood. (AR 1000.) After she was questioned about the discrepancy
between her testimony and her written statement, Thornton said: “I’m trying to
think back to the situation. I believe we did.” (AR 1000.) This inconsistency
alone does not invalidate Thornton’s testimony or written statement. Clear and
convincing evidence does not demand perfect recall, only sufficient strength to
persuade all reasonable minds. (Angelia P., 28 Cal.3d at 919.) Thornton was
still clear that petitioner disposed of blood that she needed and that
petitioner did not know how to draw blood. (AR 978-80.) 
 
            Petitioner
also argues that Thornton and Tiraterra’s written statements and testimony were
not corroborated by documentary evidence. However, corroboration with physical
evidence is not necessary. (Dart Industries, Inc. v. Commercial Union Ins.
Co. (2002) 28 Cal.4th 1059, 1075.) Unless required by statute, the
testimony of one witness may be sufficient to support the imposition of
discipline. (See ibid.) 
 
            Petitioner
denied all wrongdoing during the hearing. (AR 366.) However, as the ALJ found,
petitioner’s denials are self-serving and uncorroborated by credible
corroborating evidence. (AR 366.) Petitioner provides no credible reason for Thornton
or Tiraterra to have lied regarding his provision of care. (See AR 366 [petitioner
attempted to attribute the accusation to racial or personal animosity, which
the ALJ did not credit].)
 
Based on the foregoing, the testimonies of Thornton
and Tiraterra were sufficient to support the ALJ’s findings concerning
petitioner’s conduct at Vibra. 
 
3.           
Completeness and Sufficiency of Investigation
 
            Petitioner
contends that Whitmire’s investigation was incomplete because Whitmire did not
consider his positive classroom training evaluations or medical records
corroborating petitioner’s unsafe nursing practices because Vibra withheld
them. (AR 63-64, 342, 353.) Petitioner
also contends that Whitmire’s investigation was largely based on secondhand
accounts from individuals who were interviewed together. (AR 66, 453-56.)
 
            Even
crediting petitioner’s assertions, they do not preclude a finding from the
Court that the weight of the evidence supports the ALJ’s findings concerning
petitioner’s conduct. With respect to unproduced medical records, as stated
above, corroboration through documentary evidence is not necessary to support
the imposition of discipline. (See Dart Industries, 28 Cal.4th at 1075.)
The Board demonstrated the deficiencies which Thornton and Tiraterra described
in their written statements and about which they testified during the
administrative hearing. (AR 359-60, 362-63.) Any deficiencies in Whitmire’s
investigation do not render Thornton or Tiraterra’s written statements or
testimony not clear or convincing.
 
4.           
Dr. Taylor’s Testimony 
 
Petitioner argues that the opinion of Dr. Taylor,
the Board’s expert witness, was based on faulty, non-credible evidence. Dr.
Taylor’s opinion was based on the Board’s Investigation Final Report and
emails, documents, files, and records contained therein. (AR 364.)
 
Part of the Final Report
was based on secondhand accounts. (AR 66-69.) Nevertheless, the Final Report
also detailed Whitmire’s interview with Thornton (AR 60, 69-70), Thornton’s
written statement (AR 75-76), and Tiraterra’s written statement (AR 61, 72-73,
75). Dr. Taylor’s testimony concerned the deficiencies detailed by Thornton and
Tiraterra, which the weight of the evidence supports. (AR 1179-88.) Accordingly, Dr. Taylor’s opinion rests on
an adequate foundation.
 
Petitioner argues that
the ALJ treats as “established fact” that petitioner documented inaccurate
blood pressures, upon which Dr. Taylor formed her opinion of petitioner’s gross
negligence and incompetence. (AR 364.) Thorton testified that petitioner had
never inaccurately recorded a patient’s blood pressure. (AR 1014.) Even
excluding inaccurate blood pressures from the established facts, the remaining
facts upon which Dr. Taylor based her opinion, including inaccurate charting
and assessment and pushing medication too fast, are sufficient to support her
opinion. 
 
5.           
Conclusion
 
Based on an independent judgment standard of review
and a preliminary assessment of the merits with respect to liability, the Court
finds that the weight of the evidence supports the ALJ’s findings regarding
petitioner’s conduct. The Court also finds that the legal determination that petitioner acted with gross
negligence, incompetence, or with unprofessional conduct is supported by the
evidence concerning petitioner’s conduct at Vibra.
 
B.          
Propriety of Penalty
 
            With respect to the propriety of the
three-year probation imposed on petitioner, “The propriety of a sanction
imposed by an administrative agency is a matter resting in the sound discretion
of that agency, and that decision will not be overturned absent an abuse of
discretion.” (Hughes v. Board of Architectural Examiners (1998) 68
Cal.App.4th 685, 692. If reasonable minds can differ with regard to the
propriety of the disciplinary action, there is no abuse of discretion. (County
of Los Angeles v. Civil Service Commission (1995) 39 Cal.App.4th 620, 634.)
 
While revocation of petitioner’s license was an
option, the ALJ considered petitioner’s base of knowledge gained from classroom
learning, as well as petitioner’s post-Vibra employment and character
references, to find that probation was more appropriate. (AR 376.) Even though the ALJ
found petitioner to be a competent RN, she found probation to be warranted
based on petitioner’s lack of candor and inability to accept responsibility. (AR
376.) During the hearing, petitioner denied wrongdoing and attempted to
attribute the accusation to racial or personal animosity. (AR 366.) When
directly confronted with Tiraterra’s allegations during the Board’s
investigation, including pushing Dilaudid too fast, petitioner denied
wrongdoing to the Investigator. (AR 350-51.) Contrary to
petitioner’s contention, petitioner’s prior conviction did not factor into the
decision to impose probation. (AR 376.) 
 
Evidence
of rehabilitation submitted by petitioner is a factor in considering the
suspension or revocation of a nurse license. (16 C.C.R. § 1445(b)(2)(G); see
also AR 188 [factors for determining whether to impose revocation,
suspension, or probation].) While petitioner may have
been entitled to dispute the charges against him, petitioner must bear the
consequences of refusing to acknowledge his wrongdoing, as “[f]ully acknowledging the
wrongfulness of [one’s] actions is an essential step towards rehabilitation.” (Seide
v. Committee of Bar Examiners (1989) 49 Cal.3d 933, 940.) Further, the
recommended minimum discipline for incompetence or gross negligence as set
forth in the Board’s Disciplinary Guidelines is revocation stayed with three
years probation. (AR 189.)
 
Based on petitioner’s
lack of remorse and the minimum discipline set forth in the Disciplinary
Guidelines, the ALJ did not abuse her discretion in requiring petitioner to
practice nursing with supervision. 
 


V.      Conclusion
 
The petition is DENIED. Pursuant to Local Rule
3.231(n), respondent shall prepare, serve, and ultimately file a proposed
judgment.
 


