  Case Number:  22STCV25707    Hearing Date:   May 13, 2024    Dept:  45 Superior Court of
California
County
of Los Angeles
 



 
YEVGENY
  OSTROVSKIY,
 
                             Plaintiff,
 
                              vs.
MIKHAIL
  SIRETSKIY, an individual; THE SIRETSKIY ORGANIZATION, LLC. A California
  limited liability company; SIRETSKIY REAL ESTATE, INC. a California
  corporation; BIG BLOCK REALTY, INC., a California corporation; and DOES 1
  through 50, inclusive,,
 
                              Defendants.


Case No.:  22STCV25707
DEPARTMENT
  45
 
 
 
[TENTATIVE] RULING
 
 
 
Action
  Filed: 08/09/2022
[1st
  Amended Complaint Filed: 09/11/2023]
Trial
  Date: 02/03/2025 



 
Hearing
date:               May 13, 2024
Moving
Party:             Defendant
Big Block Realty, Inc.
Responding
Party:      Plaintiff
Yevgeny Ostrovskiy 
Motion:
Defendant Big Block Realty, Inc.’s Motion to Compel Plaintiff’s Further
Responses to Request for Production, Set 1            
The Court
considered the moving papers, opposition. Defendant Big Block Realty, Inc.’s Motion to Compel Plaintiff’s Further
Responses to Request for Production, Set 1 and Request for Monetary Sanctions
is GRANTED. Plaintiff is ordered to provide full,
complete, and verified responses and pay the imposed monetary sanctions in the
amount of $661.65 10 days from the date of this order.   

 

Background
            Yevgeny
Ostrovskiy (Plaintiff) filed a Complaint on August 9, 2023 against Mikhail
Siretskiy; the Siretskiy Organization, LLC, Siretskiy Real Estate INC.; and Big
Block Realty, Inc. (BBR). The Complaint was followed by the operative First
Amended Complaint (FAC) which alleged the following four causes of action:
1.     
Breach of Contract (as against all
defendants)
2.     
Fraud (as against all defendants)
3.     
Breach of Fiduciary Duty (as
against all defendants)
4.     
Theft (as against Mikhail
Siretskiy)
            The
FAC alleges that Defendant Mikhail Siretskiy misrepresented an investment
opportunity to Plaintiff, and that when Plaintiff provided $100,000.00 to
Defendant Mikhail Siretskiy to invest in a real estate opportunity where
Plaintiff was promised hefty returns, Plaintiff only received $60,000.00 back.
(FAC, ¶22.) Plaintiff alleges that Defendant Mikhail Siretskiy conducted this
fraudulent transaction as a licensed real estate agent with BBR. (Id.)
After several demands to receive his money back went unheeded, Plaintiff filed
suit. 
            The
motion now before the Court is Defendant
Big Block Realty, Inc.’s Motion to Compel Plaintiff’s Further Responses to
Request for Production, Set 1 and Request for Monetary Sanctions (the Motion).
Plaintiff opposes the Motion; no reply was filed. 
 
Discussion
Legal Standard
            The propounding party may bring
motions to compel further responses to interrogatories or requests for
production if it believes (1) the responses received are evasive, or (2)
incomplete, or (3) if the objections raised are meritless or too general. (Code
Civ. Proc. §§ 2030.300(a), 2031.310(a).) A respondent has the burden to justify
objections in response to a motion filed to compel further responses. (Fairmont
Ins. Co. v. Superior Court (2000) 22 Cal.4th 245, 255.)   
Analysis
            BBR provides the Declaration of
Shadae S. Bell (Bell Decl.) which states that the Request for Production of
Documents, Set 1 (RPDs) was served via e-mail on Plaintiff on July 28, 2023.
(Bell Decl., ¶3.) After the deadline passed and BBR received no responses,
Defense counsel sent a meet and confer letter, subsequently, responses were
received on September 14, 2023. (Bell Decl., ¶¶4-5.) However, upon review,
Defense counsel contends that the responses were evasive and insufficient. The
Court agrees. 
            The RPDs contained eight requests,
and Plaintiff’s response to each was “Not Applicable”. The requests are
relatively routine for this matter and request documents like communications
supporting Plaintiff’s contentions that BBR was involved with Defendant Mikhail
Siretskiy’s alleged fraud throughout the relevant time period. (See Moving
Papers, Exh. B.) However, upon opposing the Motion, Plaintiff argues that the
response “Not Applicable” is sufficient because the relevant investment
agreement that is the subject of the RPDs “was executed on August 18, 2018 and
not in August of 2019.” (Opposition Papers, 3:7-8.) 
            It is unclear whether BBR simply
made a typographical error when drafting the RPDs, or whether Plaintiff is
continuing to be evasive. It is also unclear as to how the parties could not
resolve this issue upon meeting and conferring.[1] Regardless,
Code Civ. Proc. § 2031.230 provides that “[a] representation of inability to comply with a
particular demand for inspection shall affirm that a diligent search and
reasonable inquiry has been made in an effort to comply with that demand. This
statement shall also specify whether the inability to comply is because the
particular item or category has never existed, has been destroyed, has been
lost, misplaced, or stolen, or has never been, or is no longer, in the
possession, custody, or control of the responding party.” 
            Plaintiff’s responses fail to comply
with Code Civ. Proc. § 2031.230, and the opposition papers fail to justify any objections
therein. Therefore, the Motion is granted, and sanctions are warranted. 
Sanctions
            As sanctions are warranted, Defense
counsel provides the following calculations:
·        
Counsel’s
hourly rate is $200.00
·        
Counsel
spent 2 hours preparing this Motion
·        
Counsel
anticipated spending 1 hour preparing a reply for this Motion
·        
Counsel
anticipates spending 1 hour preparing and appearing for the hearing on this
Motion
·        
Counsel
incurred a filing fee of $61.65
 
Considering that
no reply was filed, the Court will award sanctions in favor of Defendant Big
Block Realty Inc. and impose them against Plaintiff Yevgeny Ostrovskiy in the
amount of $661.65.
Conclusion
            Defendant Big Block Realty, Inc.’s
Motion to Compel Plaintiff’s Further Responses to Request for Production, Set 1
and Request for Monetary Sanctions is GRANTED. Plaintiff is ordered to provide full, complete, and verified responses
and pay the imposed monetary sanctions in the amount of $661.65 10 days from the date of this order.     
 
            It
is so ordered.
 
Dated: May 13, 2024
 
_______________________
MEL RED RECANA
Judge of the
Superior Court
 


