  Case Number:  22AHCV00842    Hearing Date:   December 24, 2024    Dept:  X PLAINTIFF/CROSS-DEFENDANT’S
MOTION FOR JUDGMENT ON THE PLEADINGSPlaintiff/Cross-Defendant
Vartanyan moves for judgment on the pleadings in Defendant/Cross-Complainant
Smith’s cross-complaint.  Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant
Vartanyan filed a legal malpractice action against Defendant/Cross-Complainant
Smith and Smith’s law office on October 14, 2022.  Smith filed a cross-complaint on April 5,
2023, alleging breach of contract, account stated, common count - services
performed, and common count - quantum meruit.Cross-Defendant Vartanyan
moves for judgment on the pleadings, arguing that the retainer agreement is
unenforceable due to a violation of Rule 1.4.2 (formerly Rule 3-410) of the
Rules of Professional Conduct, which requires disclosure of lack of
professional liability insurance. Cross-Complainant Smith opposes the motion,
asserting that the motion improperly relies on extrinsic evidence, and even if
the retainer agreement is unenforceable, recovery under quantum meruit is still
possible.Tentative RulingPlaintiff/Cross-Defendant
Vartanyan’s Motion for Judgment on the Pleadings is DENIED.Legal Authority and
Analysis“A motion for
judgment on the pleadings performs the same function as a general demurrer, and
hence attacks only defects disclosed on the face of the pleadings or by matters
that can be judicially noticed.”  (Burnett
v. Chimney Sweep (2004) 123 Cal.App.4th 1057, 1064.)  “In deciding or reviewing a judgment on the
pleadings, all properly pleaded material facts are deemed to be true, as well
as all facts that may be implied or inferred from those expressly alleged.”  (Fire Ins. Exch. v. Super. Ct. (2004)
116 Cal.App.4th 446, 452.)  A motion for
judgment on the pleadings does not lie as to a portion of a cause of action.  (Id.)  “In the case of either a demurrer or a motion
for judgment on the pleadings, leave to amend should be granted if there is any
reasonable possibility that the plaintiff can state a good cause of action.”  (Gami v. Mullikin Med. Ctr. (1993) 18
Cal.App.4th 870, 876.)  A non-statutory
motion for judgment on the pleadings may be made any time before or during
trial.  (Stoops v. Abbassi (2002)
100 Cal.App.4th 644, 650.)Because a motion for
judgment on the pleadings performs the same function as a general demurrer, the
procedures in responding to demurrers similarly apply to motions for judgment
on the pleadings.  (See e.g., Evinger
v. Moran (1910) 14 Cal.App. 328, 329.) 
“Whether a motion for judgment on the pleadings should be granted with
or without leave to amend depends on “whether there is a reasonable possibility
that the defect can be cured by amendment....’  (Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311,
318 [stating rule applied to a general demurrer].)  When a cure is a reasonable possibility, the
trial court abuses its discretion by not granting leave to amend and a
reviewing court must reverse.  (Ibid.)While
Cross-Defendant argues that the retainer agreement is unenforceable due to an
ethical violation (failure to disclose lack of professional liability
insurance), Cross-Complainant’s opposition raises valid procedural and
substantive issues.  Specifically, the
motion improperly relies on extrinsic evidence, and even if the retainer
agreement is unenforceable, recovery under quantum meruit may still be
available.As it relates to the
procedural issues, Cross-Complainant argues that the motion improperly relies
on extrinsic evidence, specifically discovery responses attached as Exhibit 2
to the motion.  The Court agrees.  Presentation of extrinsic evidence is not
proper on a motion for judgment on the pleadings.  (Burnett, supra, 123
Cal.App.4th at p. 1063; Cloud v. Northrop Grumman Corp. (1998) 67
Cal.App.4th 995, 999.)  Here,
Cross-Defendant’s reliance on discovery responses is not appropriate on a
motion for judgment on the pleadings and may not be considered by this Court.Substantively, Cross-Defendant
contends that the retainer agreement is unenforceable due to a violation of
Rule 1.4.2 of the Rules of Professional Conduct, which requires attorneys to
disclose their lack of professional liability insurance.  Rule 1.4.2(a) provides, in pertinent part: 
A
lawyer who knows or reasonably should know that the lawyer does not have
professional liability insurance shall inform a client in writing, at the time
of the client’s engagement of the lawyer, that the lawyer does not have
professional liability insurance. 
(Rules Prof.
Conduct, rule 1.4.2(a).)  If the
agreement is unenforceable, Cross-Defendant argues that all causes of action
must fail.  However, Cross-Complainant’s
opposition highlights that even if the retainer agreement is invalid, recovery
under quantum meruit may still be available.Whether an attorney
whose fee agreement is voided due to an ethical breach is entitled to quantum
meruit recovery is a matter of discretion to be exercised in light of all the
circumstances, such as the gravity and timing of the violation, its willfulness,
its effect on the value of the lawyer’s work for the client, any other
threatened or actual harm to the client, the adequacy of other remedies, and
whether the breach was intentional, negligent or without fault.  (Sheppard, Mullin, Richter &
Hampton, LLP v. J-M Manufacturing Company, Inc. (2018) 6 Cal.5th 59, 94–96.)Where some of
Cross-Complainant’s claims may survive even if the retainer agreement is
unenforceable, Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant Vartanyan’s Motion for Judgment on the
Pleadings is denied.Moving Party is to
give notice.