 Case Number:  22GDCV00252    Hearing Date:   December 24, 2024    Dept:  X DEFENDANTS’
MOTIONS FOR TERMINATING SANCTIONSDefendants seek
terminating sanctions, requesting dismissal of all claims asserted by the
Company Plaintiffs in the Third Amended Complaint with prejudice.  Alternatively, Defendants request monetary
sanctions of $5,000.00 and an additional $7,500.00 in sanctions if Plaintiffs
fail to comply with a further order compelling discovery.On July 27, 2023,
Defendants propounded discovery requests including Special Interrogatories,
Form Interrogatories, and Requests for Production of Documents.  Although Plaintiffs have produced responses
and documents, Defendants contend that the productions are not Code-compliant.Tentative RulingDefendants’ motion is granted in part and denied in part.  Defendants’ request for terminating sanctions
is denied without prejudice.Defendants’ request for monetary sanctions is granted in the
amount of $3,500.00.  Plaintiffs and
their counsel are ordered, jointly and severally, to pay monetary sanctions to
Defendants’ counsel.  Sanctions are due within
30 days of mailing of the notice of ruling.Plaintiffs are further ordered to serve
Defendants with Code-compliant responses to the discovery requests within 15
days of this Order.Legal Authority and
AnalysisOnce a motion to
compel answers is granted, continued failure to respond or inadequate answers
may result in more severe sanctions, including evidence, issue or terminating
sanctions, or further monetary sanctions.  (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 2030.290, subd. (c),
2031.300, subd. (c).)  Evidence, issue,
or terminating sanctions are intended to further a legitimate purpose under the
Discovery Act, i.e., to compel disclosure so that the party seeking the
discovery can prepare their case, and secondarily to compensate the requesting
party for the expenses incurred in enforcing discovery.  Sanctions should not constitute a “windfall”
to the requesting party, i.e., the choice of sanctions should not give that
party more than would have been obtained had the discovery been answered.  (Rylaarsdam & Edmon, Cal. Practice Guide:
Civ. Proc. Before Trial (TRG 2023) § 8:2216.)  “The sanctions the court may impose are such
as are suitable and necessary to enable the party seeking discovery to obtain
the objects of the discovery he seeks but the court may not impose sanctions
which are designed not to accomplish the objects of the discovery but to impose
punishment.  [Citations.]”  (Caryl Richards, Inc. v. Superior Court
(1961) 188 Cal.App.2d 300, 304.)According to
Defendants, Plaintiffs failed to provide Code-compliant responses and instead
submitted incomplete, evasive, and nonresponsive answers.  On May 15, 2024, Plaintiffs were
ordered to provide Code-compliant further responses to Defendant’s Form and Special
Interrogatories, and Requests for Production.  (5/15/24 Minute Order.)  On June 3, 2024, Plaintiffs served
Defendants with their Second Supplemental Responses to Form Interrogatories and
Special Interrogatories.  (Chang Decl., ¶
6.)  On June 14, 2024, by way of ex parte
application, Plaintiffs were granted additional time to respond to Defendant’s
requests for production and extended their deadline for Code-Complaint document
production to June 28, 2024.  (6/14/24
Minute Order.)  On June 28, 2024,
Plaintiffs served Defendants with a “document dump” of documents numbered
Plaintiffs 000001 – 016182, with 6,338 single page tiffs, no document breaks,
and no code-compliant production log.  (Chang
Decl., ¶ 8.)  Defendants
assert this made it impossible to discern which documents were responsive to
which requests or which Plaintiff produced them.  Further,
Defendants argue that despite multiple extensions and meet-and-confer efforts,
Plaintiffs continued to disregard their discovery obligations and the Court’s
orders.Thereafter, Defendants notified Plaintiffs of their
deficient responses, and the parties agreed Plaintiffs would respond by September
17, 2024.  (Chang Decl., ¶¶ 10-11.)  Defendants sent correspondence on September
19, 2024, after not receiving anything from Plaintiffs.  (Chang Decl., ¶ 12.)  As of the filing date of the motion (October
30, 2024), Plaintiffs have not responded to said correspondence nor provided
the supplemental responses or Code-compliant production log.  (Chang Decl., ¶ 13.)  As well, Plaintiffs have not opposed this
motion.Although no supplemental responses and no Code-compliant
production log were served by Plaintiffs by the filing date of this motion, the
Court recognizes that Plaintiffs attempted to follow the Court’s May 15 and
June 14, 2024 orders by producing responses and documents.  Although Defendants’ objections to Plaintiffs’
“document dump” appear warranted, since Plaintiffs did partially comply with
the Court orders, a terminating sanction is not appropriate.  Rather, lesser sanctions are available and
may be effective at inducing Plaintiffs to produce discovery and otherwise
comply with the Court’s order.  Monetary
sanctions are ordered, jointly and severally, against Plaintiffs and their
counsel in the amount of $3,500.00. 
Sanctions are payable to Defendant’s counsel and due within 30 days of
the mailing of the notice of ruling.Finally, Plaintiffs are ordered to serve
Defendants with Code-compliant responses to the discovery requests within 15
days of this Order.Moving Party is to give notice.