 Case Number:  23TRCV04190    Hearing Date:   March 8, 2024    Dept:  8 Tentative Ruling    HEARING DATE:                 March 8, 2024  CASE NUMBER:                  23TRCV04190   CASE NAME:                        Collin  J. Burt v. US Bank, Clarisa Espinoza, et al.    MOVING PARTY:                (1) Defendant, U.S. Bank National  Association (erroneously sued as US Bank), and Clarisa Espinoza     RESPONDING PARTY:       (1) Plaintiff, Collin J. Burt (No Opposition)   TRIAL DATE:                        None  set.     MOTION:                              (1) Defendants’ U.S. Bank and Clarisa Espinoza’s Demurrer¿    Tentative Rulings:                  (1) SUSTAINED.              I. BACKGROUND   A. Factual   On  December 20, 2023, Plaintiff, Collin J. Burt (“Plaintiff”) filed a Complaint  against Defendants, U.S. Bank National Association (erroneously sued as US  Bank), and Clarisa Espinoza. The Complaint alleges causes of action for: (1)  Common Counts; (2) Intentional Tort- Grand Larceny; and (3) Motor Vehicle  Negligence.    Now,  Defendants, U.S. Bank National Association and Clarisa Espinoza (collectively,  “Defendants”) file a Demurrer to the Complaint.    B. Procedural    On January 22, 2024,  Defendants filed their demurrer to Plaintiff’s Complaint. On January 31, 2024, Defendants  filed their amended notice of demurrer to Plaintiff’s Complaint. To date, no  opposition has been filed.          II. ANALYSIS   A. Legal Standard   A demurrer can be used only to challenge  defects that appear on the face of the pleading under attack or from matters  outside the pleading that are judicially noticeable. (Blank v. Kirwan  (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311, 318.) “To survive a demurrer, the complaint need only  allege facts sufficient to state a cause of action; each evidentiary fact that  might eventually form part of the plaintiff’s proof need not be alleged.” (C.A.  v. William S. Hart Union High School Dist. (2012) 53 Cal.4th 861, 872.) For  the purpose of testing the sufficiency of the cause of action, the demurrer  admits the truth of all material facts properly pleaded. (Aubry v. Tri-City  Hospital Dist. (1992) 2 Cal.4th 962, 966-967.) A demurrer “does not admit  contentions, deductions or conclusions of fact or law.” (Daar v. Yellow Cab  Co. (1967) 67 Cal.2d 695, 713.)   A pleading is uncertain if it is  ambiguous or unintelligible. (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subd. (f).) A demurrer  for uncertainty may lie if the failure to label the parties and claims renders  the complaint so confusing defendant cannot tell what he or she is supposed to  respond to. (Williams v. Beechnut Nutrition Corp. (1986) 185 Cal.App.3d  135, 139, fn. 2.) However, “[a] demurrer for uncertainty is strictly construed,  even where a complaint is in some respects uncertain, because ambiguities can  be clarified under modern discovery procedures.” (Khoury v. Maly's of  California, Inc. (1993) 14 Cal.App.4th 612, 616.    B. Discussion    Defendants demur to Plaintiff’s Complaint on the grounds that they  argue Plaintiff fails to state sufficient facts to maintain his First, Second,  Third, and Fourth causes of action, and that Plaintiff’s Complaint is uncertain  within the meaning of Code of Civil Procedure § 430.10(f).    Common  Counts    Defendants  argue that there are no facts alleged to support a cause of action for common  counts. The required elements of a common count claim are “(1) the statement of  indebtedness in a certain sum, (2) the consideration, i.e., goods sold, work  done, etc., and (3) nonpayment. A cause of action for money had and received is  stated if it is alleged the defendant is indebted to the plaintiff in a certain  sum for money had and received by the defendant for the use of the plaintiff.”  (Farmers Insurance Exchange v. Zerin  (1997) 53 Cal.App.4th 445, 460, citation and quotation marks omitted.) Defendants  note that Plaintiff’s Complaint fails to allege any facts, reasonable  inferences, or anything to successfully allege a cause of action for common  counts. This Court agrees. Plaintiff may not merely state conclusory  allegations in a pleading, and must – at minimum – plead facts to meet the  elements required for a cause of action. Here, Plaintiff uses the form pleading  as his Complaint, and checks off the required boxes, but nothing in the  Complaint helps this Court, or Defendants, ascertain what it is that Plaintiff  is alleging indebtedness for. Plaintiff places the figure of $100,000 in the  form pleading, but there is no indication for what such a sum is owed for, e.g.  goods or services provided, an open book account, or any other facts alleged  for consideration. Without reasonably particularized facts to instruct  Defendants what Plaintiff is alleging against them, Plaintiff’s complaint may  not stand. As such, the Demurrer is SUSTAINED with twenty (20) days leave to  amend.  Intentional  Tort - Grand Theft                Next, Defendants argue that  Plaintiff’s cause of action fails to state any facts to base its cause of  action on. This Court also agrees. Plaintiff merely states under the “DOES”  section, which is actually referencing how many “DOE Defendants” Plaintiff is  alleging the causes of action against, that he is alleging the intentional tort  of Grand Larceny. Further down the same page, Plaintiff also merely states that  he is alleging, as a description of reasons for liability, California Penal  Code § 487. Penal Code § 487 states: “Grand theft is theft committed in any of  the following cases: (a) When the money, labor, real property, or personal  property taken is of a value exceeding nine hundred fifty dollars ($950),  except as provided in subdivision (b)…” Here, there are no allegations alleging  which part of the statute Plaintiff is alleging defendants violated or what  conduct was committed by Defendants such as the personal property or other  thing Plaintiff is alleging Defendants took to amount to grand theft, etc.  Without more, Plaintiff cannot maintain a cause of action for Intentional Tort  – Grand Theft. As such, the Demurrer is SUSTAINED with twenty (20) days leave  to amend.    Motor  Vehicle Negligence  Defendants  argue that that Plaintiff’s Complaint fails to allege sufficient facts to  support a cause of action for Motor Vehicle Negligence. In order to state a  claim for negligence, Plaintiff must allege the elements of (1) “the existence  of a legal duty of care,” (2) “breach of that duty,” and (3) “proximate cause  resulting in an injury.” (McIntyre v.  Colonies-Pacific, LLC (2014) 228 Cal.App.4th 664, 671.) Here,  Defendants contend that there no facts alleged in the complaint at all, no  facts or allegations demonstrating that Defendants were involved in any motor  vehicle accident with Plaintiff, and no description of the vehicles allegedly  in the car accident. This Court also notes that there are no actual facts  alleged to each cause of action for negligence. Plaintiff’s Complaint alleges  that “the acts of defendants were negligent; the acts were the legal  (proximate) cause of injuries and damages to plaintiff; [and that] the acts  occurred.” This Court instructs that Plaintiff may not merely state conclusory  elements of a cause of action for negligence. Plaintiff must allege facts that  speak to the existence of a legal duty of care, a breach of that duty,  proximate cause, and damages  In the  typical motor vehicle cause of action, in addition to checking boxes, the  typical plaintiff states the date and location of the collision, a general  description of the vehicles or other objects involved if any, and a succinct  statement of the nature of the breach of duty of ordinary care. Here,  Plaintiff’s current complaint, fails to do this. As such, the Demurrer is  SUSTAINED with twenty (20) days leave to amend.  III. CONCLUSION   For the foregoing reasons, the  Defendants’ demurrer is SUSTAINED in full. Plaintiff is granted twenty (20)  days leave to amend.  Defendants are  ordered to give written notice of the ruling. 