  Case Number:  21STCV33265    Hearing Date:   March 8, 2024    Dept:  8 Tentative
Ruling¿¿ 
¿¿¿ 
HEARING DATE:                 March 8, 2024
¿¿¿ 
CASE NUMBER:                   21STCV33265
¿¿¿ 
CASE NAME:                        Plaintiff Doe v. Innovative Fertility
Center, et al. 
 
MOVING PARTY:                Defendants,
Innovative Fertility Center and Mark J. Rispler, M.D.
¿¿¿ 
RESPONDING PARTY:       Manhattan
Beach Police Department
 
TRIAL DATE:                       May
6, 2024
¿¿¿ 
MOTION:¿                              (1) Motion to Compel Manhattan Beach Police Department to Comply
with Deposition Subpoena
                                                
Tentative Rulings:                  (1) GRANTED in part.  City
to disclose to defense counsel the identities and contact information (if contained
in the police records) of the witnesses whose names were redacted in the police
report within 10 days of service on the City’s counsel of the Court’s ruling
and Minute Order so defense counsel can serve the Notice(s) to Consumer.  The Court will consider a limited extension
of the discovery cut-off date or the trial date to facilitate the depositions
of the witnesses so disclosed
                                                
As a preliminary matter, the Court discloses that before
being appointed to the bench in 2015, Judge Frank represented the City of
Manhattan Beach and its then City Manager in an employment case, and that Judge
Frank thereby became acquainted with City Attorney Quinn Barrow and its then Chief
of Police.  This past representation does
not in the Court’s view require recusal.
 
I. BACKGROUND¿¿¿ 
¿¿¿ 
A. Factual¿¿¿ 
¿¿¿ 
Plaintiff
Doe filed this action against Defendants Innovative Fertility Center, Mark J.
Rispler (collectively “Defendants”), and Does 1-50 on September 9, 2021. On
November 15, 2021, Plaintiff filed a First Amended Complaint (“FAC”) against
Defendants alleging the following causes of action: (1) Battery; (2) Sexual
Battery; (3) Medical Negligence; and (4) Intentional Infliction of Emotional
Distress.
 
Defendants
note that on September 1, 2022, defense counsel first subpoenaed documents from
the Manhattan Beach Police Department (“MBPD”), and in response MBPD produced a
redacted police report, two voice recordings, and one phone call rom DOE to the
police and one conversation between DOE and Dr. Rispler. On May 26, 2023,
Defendants note they served a deposition subpoena with Notice to Consumer on
investigating officer Traci Navarrette and Michael Rosenberg of the MBPD also
requesting production of the unredacted documents. However, Defendants note
that after numerous attempts by defense counsel to obtain the unredacted
report, on December 8, 2023, US Legal notified defense counsel that MBPD had
responded, noting that the witnesses (whose names were redacted) would have to
be served with a Notice to Consumer before they would produce the unredacted
versions. However, defense counsel asked the MBPD how they would be able to
provide said notice without having the names of the redacted witnesses. Defense
counsel notes that ultimately, she was contacted by a Jennifer Petrusis on
behalf of the City Attorney’s Office, indicating that a Notice to Consumer is
required and that she would require some sort of court intervention in order to
produce the unredacted report. 
 
As
such, Defendants now file this Motion to Compel Compliance with the subpoena. 
 
B. Procedural¿¿¿ 
¿¿ 
            On
February 21, 2024, Defendants filed this Motion to Compel Compliance with
Deposition Subpoena. On February 26, 2024, City of Manhattan Beach filed a
statement in response, which sought guidance from the Court in this case of
first impression.
 
II. ANALYSIS¿¿ 
 
A.    Legal Standard 
 
 Any party may obtain discovery … by taking the oral
deposition of any person, including any party to the action. (Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 2025.010.)
 
Where a party objects to the deposition, the proper remedy
is an objection under Code of Civil Procedure Section 2025.410. If such an
objection is made within three calendar days before the deposition date, the
objecting party must make personal service of that objection. (Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 2025.410, subd. (b).)
 
Pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure Section 2025.450,
subdivision (a),¿“If, after service of a deposition notice, a party to the
action . . . , without having served a valid objection under Section 2025.410,
fails to appear for examination, or to proceed with it, or to produce
for¿inspection any document . . . described in the deposition notice, the party
giving the notice may move for an order¿compelling the deponent’s attendance
and testimony, and the production for inspection of any document . . . described
in the deposition notice.”¿ (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.450, subd. (a).)
 
Code of Civil Procedure § 1985.4 applies the Notice to
Consumer requirements of section 1985.3 to records containing “personal
information” to the records of a local agency that are otherwise exempt from
public disclosure under the Public Records Act. Further, City notes records of
a law enforcement agency’s investigation of a possible crime are exempt from
disclosure under the Public Records Act. (Govt. Code § 7923.600).
 
B.   
Discussion 
 
Meet
and Confer 
 
Pursuant
to Code of Civil Procedure Section 2025.450, subdivision (b), “A motion under
subdivision (a)… shall be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration under
Section 2016.040, or, when the deponent fails to attend the deposition and
produce the documents, electronically stored information, or things described
in the deposition notice, by a declaration stating that the petitioner has
contacted the deponent to inquire about the nonappearance.”¿¿(Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 2025.450, subd. (b).)
 
Here,
the Court notes that Defendants have indicated that they have conferred with
City Attorney about the filing of this motion, and the City noting that Court
intervention would be required. As such, the Court finds Defendants have
complied with the meet and confer requirement prior to the filing of this
motion.
 
Motion
to Compel Deposition
 
            Defendants argue that good cause
exists for this Court to compel production of the unredacted police report from
the MBPD. Defendants note that the unredacted police report is important and directly
relevant to Defendants’ case because: (1)  the report states details and facts pertinent
to the case; (2) because Plaintiff states the names of potential witnesses that
would be important to the defendant case; (3) that plaintiff testified she does
not have a copy of the unredacted report and testified she did not recall the
names she provided; and (4) because there is no other way to obtain this
report. More specifically,  Defendant
contends that the unredacted police report relates to the issue of witnesses
that can provide a better understanding od the developments leading up to the
Plaintiff claiming the doctor’s visit resulted in a sexual assault.
 
            In the City of Manhattan Beach’s
statement in response, it notes that Code of Civil Procedure § 1985.4 applies
the Notice to Consumer requirements of section 1985.3 to records containing
“personal information” to the records of a local agency that are otherwise
exempt from public disclosure under the Public Records Act, and that records of
a law enforcement agency’s investigation of a possible crime are exempt from
disclosure under the PRA.  City notes
that the Police Department’s custodian of records explained in her declaration,
dated December 12, 2022, that redactions were made because of no notice to
consumer, and that although the victim’s identity and information were not
redacted from the responsive records, Defendants’ counsel served a notice to , consumer
to the reported victim along with subpoenas for the deposition of the
investigating officer.  
 
Here,
neither party cites to precedent on this issue. Admittedly, there is not an
excessive amount available. However, this Court turns the parties’ attention to
Board of Registered Nursing v. Superior Court of Orange County (2021) 59
Cal.App.5th 1011 (“Board of Registered Nursing”). In Board of
Registered Nursing, the Fourth District Court of Appeal considered the
propriety of several discovery orders that compelled four nonparty state
agencies to produce to defendants various categories of documents related to
opioids. (Board of Registered Nursing, supra, 59 Cal.App.5th at 1021.) More
specifically, the Fourth District considered the superior court order requiring
the production of prescription records contained in the state’s Controlled
Substance Utilization Review and Evaluation System (“CURES”) database. (Id.
at 1022.) The superior court’s order required the Department of Justice to
produce CURES prescription records for individually identified patients to an
outside vendor, and the vendor would then replace patient names with unique
identifiers, cross-reference the records with other datasets in the vendor’s
possession, and provide the linked deidentified datasets to the defendants. (Id.
at 1045.) In a writ proceeding challenging the propriety of that order, after
observing that the production of identified patient data to an outside vendor
for deidentification, would…implicate the privacy rights of the patients.” (Id.
at 1038.) The Board of Registered Nursing Court concluded that
defendants “ha[d] not justified such a sweeping production of personal and
private medical data” under the law governing nonparty discovery. (Ibid.)
As more relevant to this case, the Court also concluded that the Defendants
were required, pursuant to statute, to serve consumer notices on at least the
doctors, nurses, pharmacists, and other healthcare professionals whose
identities would be disclosed in the administrative records and investigatory
files. (Id. at 1023.)
 
The
Court’s view is that the City correctly determined that a Notice of Consumer
was required before it could produce an unredacted version of the police report
to a civil litigant.  To break this logjam,
the Court will order MBPD’s counsel to disclose the identities and contact
information (if contained in the police records of this investigation) to
defense counsel within 10 days of service of this ruling so that the required
Notice(s) of Consumer can be served on the witnesses.  The Court observes that defense counsel
offices in the City of Manhattan Beach within a few miles of police
headquarters, which should facilitate this disclosure if the MBPD’s counsel
elects to do the disclosure by having defense counsel review (but not copy or
photograph) the un-redacted version of the Desk Report in person at police
headquarters.  Alternatively, the
Department’s counsel can telephone defense counsel with the identities and contact
information of the witnesses mentioned in the DR.  But the City must facilitate the notice to
consumer process in order to comply with the law bearing on the notice to
consumer restriction of the MBPD’s compliance with the SDT.  
 
Unless
waived, which would begin the 10-day compliance period on the day of this hearing,
Defendants are to give written notice of this ruling.