 Case Number:  23TRCP00008    Hearing Date:   March 8, 2024    Dept:  8 Tentative Ruling¿ 
¿¿ 
HEARING DATE:                 March 8, 2024¿¿ 
¿¿ 
CASE NUMBER:                  23TRCP00008
¿¿ 
CASE NAME:                        Nardiello
Law Firm v. John Rodgers, et al.   
¿¿ 
MOVING PARTY:                Plaintiff, Nardiello Law Firm, PLC
¿¿ 
RESPONDING PARTY:       Defendant, John Rodgers (No Opposition)
¿¿ 
DISPOSED OF DATE:          May
16, 2023 
¿¿ 
MOTION:¿                              (1) Motion for an Assignment Order 
 
Tentative Rulings:                  (1) GRANTED as to 50% of the amount requested, and the Court will interlineate
the proposed order accordingly.
 
 
¿¿ 
¿ 
 
 
I. BACKGROUND¿¿ 
¿¿ 
A.    Factual¿¿ 
 
On
May 16, 2023, this Court entered Judgment against Defendant and Debtor John
Rodgers, in favor of Plaintiff and Creditor, Nardiello Law Firm, in the
principal amount of $82,952.62.   According to the moving papers, upon
investigation Plaintiff discovered that Judgment Debtor is a certified public
accountant and tax attorney, indicating that he may be receiving moneys from
which Plaintiff as a judgment creditor might obtain collection.  Specifically, the motion indicates that the judgment
debtor here may have significant payment to and distributions from his
professional corporation entity and business identified as “John Q. Rodgers Law
Corporation.” Plaintiff notes Judgment Debtor is believed to have a right to
payment and distributions from his clients and others. As such, Plaintiff moves
for an order that orders Judgment Debtor and any third-party obligors to first
direct any and all funds or assets to be paid, payable, or transferred to
Judgment Debtor, specifically any distribution of funds, or rights to such distributions
of assets from John Q. Rodgers Law Corporation, to be directed to Judgment
Creditor instead, and in lieu of Judgment Debtor, to the extent necessary to
satisfy the outstanding civil money judgment due to judgment creditor. 
 
B.     Procedural 
 
On February 7, 2024,
Plaintiff filed a Motion for an Assignment Order. To date, no opposition has
been filed. 
 
 
II. ANALYSIS¿ 
¿ 
A.   
 Legal Standard
¿ 
Code of Civil Procedure §
708.510(a) states, in relevant part: “(a) Except as otherwise provided by law,
upon application of the judgment creditor on noticed motion, the court may
order the judgment debtor to assign to the judgment creditor or to a receiver
appointed pursuant to Article 7 (commencing with Section 708.610) all or part of a right to payment due or to become
due, whether or not the right is conditioned on future developments, including
but not limited to the following types of payments: (1) Wages dues from the
federal government that are not subject to withholding under an earnings
withholding order. (2) Rents. (3) Commissions. (4) Royalties. (5) Payments due
from a patent or copyright. (6) Insurance policy loan value.”
Code of Civil Procedure §
708.510(c), further provides: “[I]n determining whether to order an assignment
or the amount of an assignment pursuant to subdivision (a), the court may take
into consideration all relevant factors, including the following: (1) The
reasonable requirements of a judgment debtor who is a natural person and of
persons supported in whole or in part by the judgment debtor. (2) Payments the
judgment debtor is required to make or that are deducted in satisfaction of
other judgments and wage assignments, including earnings assignment orders for
support. (3) The amount remaining due on the money judgment. (4) The amount
being or to be received in satisfaction of the right to payment that may be
assigned.”
Code of Civil Procedure §
708.520(a) states, in relevant part: “When an application is made pursuant to
Section 708.510 or thereafter, the judgment creditor may apply to the court for
an order restraining the judgment debtor from assigning or otherwise disposing
of the right to payment that is sought to be assigned.” “The court may issue an
order pursuant to this section upon a showing of need for the order.” (Code
Civ. Proc. § 708.520(b).)
 
B.     Discussion 
 
Here,
Plaintiff contends that Judgment Debtor is a certified public accountant and
tax attorney operating under his business as a professional corporation, where
rights to payment and/or distribution and bonuses to Judgment Debtor may be
forthcoming. Pursuant to Plaintiff’s California Secretary of State search,
Plaintiff has verified that Judgment Debtor is believed to have rights to
payment due or to become due from being his closely held corporate entity
identified as John Q. Rodgers Law Corporation, a California Corporation. 
 
Plaintiff
has also provided evidence that the principal of the Judgment remains
unsatisfied, and unpaid (at all), and post-judgment interest, costs, and fees
have accrued. (Declaration of Jerry Jen (“Jen Decl.”), ¶ 6.) Based on this
information and evidence Plaintiff believes that Debtor has rights to payments
due or to become due from Debtor’s firm and practice, and requests that Debtor
be ordered to assign his right to payment due from his law firm, to the extent
necessary to satisfy the outstanding civil money judgment due to Judgement
Creditor in full. Here, Plaintiff has sufficiently demonstrated that the legal
and tax firm operating with Debtor’s name and the California Secretary of State
website listing him as the agent. As such, the Court GRANTS Plaintiff’s motion
to assign “all or part
of a right to payment . . . .”  The Court
assigns Plaintiff and Judgment Creditor 50% of the payments received or rights
to payment due to the debtor’s law corporation, the reduction from 100% being
in consideration of the debtor’s obligation to pay state and federal taxes on
such payments and distributions.  
 
III. CONCLUSION
 
For the foregoing reasons, Plaintiff’s Motion to Assign Judgment to John Q. Rodgers
Law Corporation is GRANTED.  The Court
will interlineate the proposed order as per this tentative ruling.  
 
Plaintiff is ordered to give notice. ¿¿ 
¿ 
 
 