 Case Number:  YC070892    Hearing Date:   March 8, 2024    Dept:  8 Tentative Ruling¿ 
¿¿ 
HEARING DATE:                 March 8, 2024¿¿ 
¿¿ 
CASE NUMBER:                  YC070892
¿¿ 
CASE NAME:                        Groundwork
Group, Inc. dba Frontline Finish v. H.S.K. Investments, LLC, et al.  
¿¿ 
MOVING PARTY:                Plaintiff, Groundwork Group Inc. dba
Frontline Finish  
¿¿ 
RESPONDING PARTY:       Defendant, HC Automotive, Inc., HNL Automotive
Inc., Payless Cars, Inc. and HK Automotive, Inc. (No Opposition)
¿¿ 
DISPOSED OF DATE:          March 14, 2023 
¿¿ 
MOTION:¿                              (1) Motion to Enter
Stipulation for Judgment 
 
Tentative Rulings:                  (1) GRANTED
 
¿¿ 
¿ 
I. BACKGROUND¿¿ 
¿¿ 
A.    Factual¿¿ 
 
Plaintiff
moves seeking an entry from this Court of a Court Judgement against HC
Automotive, Inc., HNL Automotive Inc., Payless Cars, Inc., and H K Automotive,
Inc (collectively, “Defendants”) and in favor of Plaintiff under Code of Civil
Procedure § 664.6. 
 
This
case involved a prior contractual relationship, where Defendants owed money to
Plaintiff based on unpaid invoices for services rendered. As a result,
Plaintiff initiated the lawsuit. After the initiation of the lawsuit, Plaintiff
notes the parties entered into a settlement agreement and release. Between
February 6, 2023 and February 8, 2023, the settlement agreement was executed and
signed by the Defendants’ representatives, and Plaintiff signed the agreement
on February 2, 2023. After the parties executed the Settlement Agreement,
Plaintiff filed its Application for Court Order Reserving Jurisdiction over
Parties pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure § 664.6. 
 
On
March 14, 2023, this Court issued a minute order noting that it retains jurisdiction
to make orders to enforce any and all terms of the settlement, including
judgment, pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure § 664.6. Plaintiff now asserts
that Defendants have failed to fully perform under the Settlement Agreement,
having failed to make any of the promised payments. Thus, Plaintiff has brought
his action to enforce Defendant’s promise to pay under the provisions of Code
of Civil Procedure § 664.6 and requests entry of a court judgment. 
 
B.    
Procedural
 
 
On January 8, 2024, Plaintiff
brought this Motion to Enter Judgment based on Stipulation of the Parties. To
date, no opposition has been filed. 
 
II. ANALYSIS¿ 
¿ 
A.   
 Legal Standard
¿ 
Code of Civil Procedure section 664.6
provides: 
 
(a)¿If parties to pending litigation stipulate, in a writing signed
by the parties outside¿of¿the presence of the court or orally before the court,
for settlement of the case, or part thereof, the court, upon motion, may enter
judgment pursuant to the terms of the settlement. If requested by the parties,
the court may retain jurisdiction over the parties to enforce the settlement
until performance in full of the terms of the settlement. 
 
(b) For purposes of this section, a writing is signed by a party
if it is signed by any of the following: 
 
(1) The party. 
(2) An attorney who represents the party. 
(3) If the party is an insurer, an agent who is authorized in
writing by the insurer to sign on the insurer's behalf.” 
 
“Section 664.6 was enacted to provide a
summary procedure for specifically enforcing a settlement contract without the
need for a new lawsuit.” (Chan v. Lund (2010) 188 Cal.App.4th 1159,
1165-66 [quoting Weddington Productions, Inc. v. Flick (1998) 60 Cal.App.4th 793, 809-10].) 
 
B.     Discussion 
 
Here, Plaintiff
notes that pursuant to paragraph 5 of the Settlement Agreement, there were two
payment alternative options, including an “Optional Payment Deferral –
Alternative Payment.” This option allowed the Defendants additional time to pay
the stipulated amount agreed upon in the settlement agreement. Plaintiff notes,
specifically, paragraph 5(b) of the Settlement Agreement, the Optional Payment
Deferral allowed: 
 
“Defendant shall send a single
payment of $60,000.00, less credit for prior payments made under this
Settlement Agreement. Defendant's alternative payment shall be delivered by May
15, 2023, and in accordance with the terms of this Settlement Agreement”
 
            However, Plaintiff notes that
Defendants failed to pay by May 15, 2023. Further however, Plaintiff notes that
paragraph 6(a) of the Settlement Agreement “Delinquency” was defined as: “If
any payment is not received from the Defendant by any due date stated in
Paragraph 5, the Defendant shall be considered delinquent.” Under this
paragraph, if the defendants became delinquent, Plaintiff was required to send notice
to defense counsel as follows: “In the event of a Defendant's delinquency,
notice shall be sent by first-class mail advising the Defendant of the
delinquency and requesting that all unpaid amounts be actually received within
10 calendar days from date of notice ("Notice of Delinquency").”
(Plaintiff’s Exhibit 1: Settlement Agreement ¶ 6.) On May 18, 2023, Plaintiff’s
counsel did send a Notice of Delinquency to Defense Counsel requesting payment
of all delinquent amounts due under the Settlement Agreement. 
 
            On June 7, 2023, Plaintiff notes its
counsel sent a second Notice of Delinquency to Defense Counsel requesting
payment of all delinquent amounts due under the Settlement Agreement. However,
Plaintiff contends that despite these notices of delinquency, the Defendants
failed to cure their delinquency. Plaintiff sent both notices of delinquency by
first class US mail in accordance with the Settlement Agreement. Plaintiff’s
counsel notes that counsel even telephoned Defense counsel, advising him of
Defendant’s default, and requesting the default be cured. However, despite the
multiple notices, Defendants have failed to cure their defaults. 
 
            Plaintiff asserts that pursuant to
the Settlement Agreement, Defendants agreed to pay $60,000. Paragraph 6(e) of
the Settlement Agreement is titled “The Default Amount” to be entered under the
stipulation to enter conditional judgment is $60,000, less credit for prior
payments made under this agreement, plus accrued interest from January 26,
2023.” Further, Paragraph 8 of the Settlement agreement notes that Plaintiff is
entitled to actual attorneys’ fees and costs incurred in pursuing this motion.
Plaintiff notes Defendants have paid nothing toward the agreed upon amount, and
thus the settlement seeks: (1) $60,000 of the principal balance; (2) $6,690.41
in accrued interest; (3) $79.35 in costs; and (4) $1,080 in attorneys’ fees. This
totals to $67,849.76.
 
            This Court finds that Plaintiff has
carried its burden in ensuring all requirements of Code of Civil Procedure §
664.6. As such, the Court enters judgment in the amount of $67,849.76, having
found the attorney’s fees, costs, and accrued interest to be reasonable,
amounted for in the settlement agreement, and having met the burden under
section 664.6. 
 
IV. CONCLUSION
 
For the foregoing reasons, Plaintiff’s Motion to Enter Stipulation for Judgment is
GRANTED. 
 
Plaintiff is ordered to give notice. ¿¿ 
¿ 