 Case Number:  23PSCV03999    Hearing Date:   June 5, 2024    Dept:  6 CASE  NAME:  Yuanyuan  Gao v. Pomona Valley Hospital Medical Center, et al.  Defendant  Pomona Valley Hospital Medical Center’s Demurrer to Plaintiff’s Complaint  TENTATIVE  RULING  The Court SUSTAINS the demurrer to the First, Second, Third, Fourth,  Fifth, Sixth and Seventh Causes of Action with 20 days’ leave to amend.  The Court DENIES the motion to strike as to the First through  Seventh Causes of Action, and DENIES the motion to strike as moot with respect  to the punitive damages allegations.               Pomona Valley is ordered to give  notice of the Court’s ruling within five calendar days of this order.  BACKGROUND  This is an action based on an admission to a mental institution. On  December 28, 2023, plaintiff Yuanyuan Gao (Plaintiff) filed this action against  defendants Pomona Valley Hospital Medical Center (Pomona Valley), College  Hospital, Inc. doing business as College Hospital – Cerritos (CH Cerritos) (collectively,  Defendants), and Does 1 to 25, alleging causes of action for false  imprisonment, violation of patient rights, assault, battery, invasion of  privacy, intentional infliction of emotional distress, and discrimination.  On April 19, 2024, Pomona Valley demurred to and moved to strike  portions of the complaint. On May 23, 2024, Plaintiff opposed the motions. On May  29, 2024, Pomona Valley replied.  LEGAL  STANDARD – Demurrer              A demurrer is a pleading used to test the legal sufficiency of  other pleadings. It raises issues of law, not fact, regarding the form or  content of the opposing party's pleading (complaint, answer or  cross-complaint). (Code Civ. Proc., § 422.10; see Donabedian v.  Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994.) It is not the function  of the demurrer to challenge the truthfulness of the complaint; and for  purposes of ruling on the demurrer, all facts pleaded in the complaint are  assumed to be true. (Id.)  A  demurrer can be used only to challenge defects that appear on the face of the  pleading under attack; or from matters outside the pleading that are judicially  noticeable. (Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311, 318; Donabedian,  supra, 116 Cal.App.4th at p. 994.) No other extrinsic evidence can be  considered. (Ion Equip. Corp. v. Nelson (1980) 110 Cal.App.3d 868,  881 [error for court to consider facts asserted in memorandum supporting  demurrer]; see also Afuso v. United States Fid. & Guar. Co. (1985) 169 Cal.App.3d 859, 862, disapproved on other grounds in Moradi-Shalal  v. Fireman’s Fund Ins. Cos. (1988) 46 Cal.3d 287 [error to consider  contents of release not part of court record].)  A  demurrer can be utilized where the “face of the complaint” itself is incomplete  or discloses some defense that would bar recovery. (Guardian North Bay, Inc.  v. Superior Court (2001) 94 Cal.App.4th 963, 971-972.) The “face of  the complaint” includes material contained in attached exhibits that are  incorporated by reference into the complaint, or in a superseded complaint in the same action. (Frantz v.  Blackwell (1987) 189 Cal.App.3d 91, 94; see also Barnett v. Fireman’s  Fund Ins. Co. (2001) 90 Cal.App.4th 500, 505 [“[W]e rely on and accept as true the contents of the exhibits and treat as  surplusage the pleader’s allegations as to the legal effect of the exhibits.”])  A demurrer  can only be sustained when it disposes of an entire cause of action. (Poizner  v. Fremont General Corp. (2007) 148 Cal.App.4th 97, 119; Kong v. City of  Hawaiian Gardens Redev. Agency (2003) 108  Cal.App.4th 1028, 1046.)   PRELIMINARY  ISSUES – Demurrer              The Court notes that Plaintiff filed  the opposition on May 23, 2024, which was one day late. (See Code Civ. Proc., §  1005, subd. (b).) But, the Court also notes the opposition was served on Pomona  Valley on May 22, 2024. Therefore, the Court exercises its discretion to still  consider Plaintiff’s opposition, but admonishes Plaintiff to comply with the  requirements of the Code of Civil Procedure going forward. (See Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1300, subd. (d); Juarez  v. Wash Depot Holdings, Inc. (2018) 24 Cal.App.5th 1197, 1202.)            DISCUSSION –  Demurrer  Meet and Confer  Per Code of Civil Procedure section 430.41, subdivision (a), Pomona  Valley was required to meet and confer in person, by telephone, or by video  conference before bringing this demurrer. (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.41, subd.  (a).) The Court finds Pomona Valley’s meet-and-confer efforts sufficient. (Owen  Decls., ¶¶ 3-6.)  First Cause of Action – False  Imprisonment  To state a cause of action for false imprisonment, the  plaintiff must allege facts demonstrating, “(1) the nonconsensual, intentional  confinement of a person, (2) without lawful privilege, and (3) for an  appreciable period of time, however brief. [Citation.]” (Easton v. Sutter Coast Hosp. (2000) 80 Cal.App.4th 485,  496 (Easton).)  Pomona Valley demurs to the First Cause of Action for  false imprisonment for failure to state a cause of action and for uncertainty.  Pomona Valley contends the allegations of the complaint fail to allege facts  demonstrating that Plaintiff’s alleged restraint was without lawful privilege,  citing the Easton case. Pomona Valley further contends the only  inference to be drawn from the allegations of the complaint is that Plaintiff  was placed on a hold under Welfare & Institutions section 5150, and that  Plaintiff has not plead facts demonstrating her hold was unlawful.  In opposition, Plaintiff contends that Pomona Valley’s  argument about a “5150 hold” is speculative, as the complaint says nothing  about a “5150 hold.” Plaintiff contends Pomona Valley’s moving papers admit  that Plaintiff was deceived into signing voluntary admission papers. Plaintiff  contends that the false imprisonment claim is based on her having allegedly  been tricked into signing the voluntary admission papers by misrepresenting  them as discharge papers, and that restraining Plaintiff was therefore unlawful  and unprivileged. Plaintiff further contends Pomona Valley’s reliance on Easton  is misplaced, as that case involved privileged reports of suspected  mistreatment of an elder, whereas this case involves obtaining consent through  false pretenses.  The Court finds the First Cause of Action to be  uncertain. Plaintiff lumps all defendants together and complains about conduct  within the premises of Defendant CH Cerritos. (Compl., ¶¶ 26, 27.) The Court  cannot determine which conduct Plaintiff seeks to allege as a basis for false  imprisonment against Defendant Pomona Valley.  Based on the foregoing, the Court SUSTAINS the demurrer  to the First Cause of Action with leave to amend.  Second Cause of Action – Violation of Patient Rights  Pomona Valley demurs to the Second Cause of Action for violation  of patient rights for failure to state facts sufficient to constitute a cause  of action and for uncertainty. Pomona Valley contends the patient’s private  right of action is uncertain in that it fails to allege if it is based on a  statute and that if based on Health & Safety Code section 1430(b)(1), such  statute is available only to current or former residents and patients of  skilled nursing facilities. Pomona Valley contends the complaint fails to  allege fats demonstrating that Plaintiff received medical care. Pomona Valley  also contends that the complaint lumps the defendants together without  specifying who committed the actions of which Plaintiff claims she is entitled  to punitive damages, and that Plaintiff fails to allege any facts showing  Pomona Valley is responsible for the actions of Defendant College Hospital.  In opposition, Plaintiff contends that tricking a person into  signing a voluntary admission is clearly involuntary, and that confining a  person in a hospital under false pretenses violates that person’s patient  rights.  The Court finds the Second Cause of Action fails to allege sufficient  facts to support a cause of action for violation of patient rights. The  complaint does not specify the basis for Plaintiff’s alleged patient rights.  (See Compl., ¶¶ 30-35.) If plaintiff’s claims is based on Health and Safety  Code section 1430, subdivision (b)(1), as cited in Pomona Valley’s moving  papers (Demurrer, 10:7-14), that statute provides that it applies only to  skilled nursing facilities and intermediate care facilities. (Health & Saf.  Code, § 1430, subd. (b)(1); see also Id., § 1250, subd. (d) [definition  of intermediate care facility]; Id., § 1250, subd. (c) [definition of  skilled nursing facility].) The complaint does not allege whether Pomona Valley  is a skilled nursing facility or intermediate care facility. The Second Cause  of Action also lumps all defendants together and does not identify the actions  of Pomona Valley alleged to be in violation of Plaintiff’s rights, which are  also not identified.  Based on the foregoing, the Court SUSTAINS the demurrer to the  Second Cause of Action with leave to amend.  Third and Fourth Causes of Action  – Assault and Battery  To state a cause of action for assault, the plaintiff  must allege facts demonstrating, “(1) the defendant acted  with intent to cause harmful or offensive contact, or threatened  to touch the plaintiff  in a harmful  or offensive manner;  (2) the plaintiff reasonably believed he was  about to be touched in a harmful or offensive manner or it reasonably appeared  to the plaintiff that the defendant was  about to carry out the threat;  (3) the plaintiff did not consent to the defendant's conduct; (4) the plaintiff was harmed;  and (5) the defendant's conduct was a substantial factor in causing the  plaintiff's harm. [Citation.]” (Carlsen v. Koivumaki  (2014) 227 Cal.App.4th 879, 890.)  To state a cause of action for battery, the plaintiff  must allege facts demonstrating: (1) the defendant intentionally did an act  which resulted in a harmful or offensive contact with the plaintiff's person; (2)  the plaintiff did not consent to the contact; and (3) the harmful or offensive  contact caused injury, damage, loss or harm to the plaintiff. (Piedra v. Dugan (2004) 123 Cal.App.4th 1483, 1495.)  Pomona Valley demurs to the Third and Fourth Causes of  Action for assault and battery, respectively, for failure to state facts  sufficient to constitute a cause of action and for uncertainty. Pomona Valley  contends that the only allegations against it relating to a possible assault  and battery is in paragraph 12 of the complaint, but contends that the  complaint does not allege such actions occurred at Pomona Valley. Pomona Valley  contends the complaint does not allege Pomona Valley intended to make harmful or  offensive contact, or that it intended for Plaintiff to believe that was true  and Plaintiff believed she was going to be harmed. Pomona Valley contends the  only laws which allow law enforcement for Plaintiff’s alleged harms is the  Lanterman-Petris-Short Act, and that in the absence of fats demonstrating  Defendants lacked probable cause to detain Plaintiff for psychiatric  evaluation, Plaintiff must allege facts which demonstrate that Defendants’  actions were without probable cause.  In opposition, Plaintiff contends Pomona Valley is again  speculating as to why law enforcement officers might have brought Plaintiff to  Pomona Valley, but that it does admit the complaint alleges Plaintiff was  forcibly restrained after being deceived into signing the voluntary admission  papers. Plaintiff contends the complaint alleges the facts necessary to state  causes of action for assault and battery, as Plaintiff alleges that Pomona  Valley caused Plaintiff to feel apprehension that she would be offensively  touched and in fact was offensively touched when she was forcibly restrained  and held down by iron bars. Plaintiff further reiterates the allegation that  she was deceived into signing the voluntary admission papers.  The Court finds the Third and Fourth Causes of Action for  assault and battery, respectively, to be uncertain. The Third and Fourth Causes  of Action allege that Defendants Does 1 to 25 engaged in harmful conduct and  that Defendants CH Cerritos and Pomona Valley are vicariously liable for the  actions of Defendants Does 1 to 25. (Compl. ¶¶ 37-39, 42-43.) While these  causes of action incorporate by reference prior allegations, this is not  sufficient to give Defendant Pomona Valley notice of the basis for its  potential liability. Different events occurred at different facilities by different  individuals. The Court is left to speculate as to the exact conduct of Defendant  Pomona Valley for which Plaintiff seeks to hold it liable for assault or battery  or the basis for holding it vicariously liable. Again, Plaintiff lumps together  the conduct of the Doe Defendants and does not specify the exact conduct for  which Pomona Valley is allegedly liable.  Based on the foregoing, the Court SUSTAINS the demurrer  to the Third and Fourth Causes of Action.  Fifth Cause of Action – Invasion of Privacy  Case law recognizes four different types of invasion of  privacy: (1) intrusion into the plaintiff's privacy or solitude, Shulman v.  Group W Productions, Inc. (1998) 18 Cal.4th 200, 231; (2) public disclosure  of private facts, (Id., at p. 478); (3) publicity placing the plaintiff  in a false light, (Forsher v. Bugliosi (1980) 26 Cal.3d 792, 808; and  (4)  use or appropriation of the  plaintiff's name or likeness, (Id.).  (a) A person is liable for physical invasion of privacy  when the person knowingly enters onto the land or into the airspace above the land of  another person without permission or otherwise commits  a trespass in order to capture any type of visual image, sound recording, or  other physical impression of the plaintiff engaging in a private, personal, or  familial activity and the invasion occurs in a manner that is offensive to a  reasonable person.  (b) A person is liable for constructive invasion of  privacy when the person attempts to capture, in a manner  that is offensive to a reasonable person, any type of visual image, sound  recording, or other physical impression of the plaintiff engaging in a private,  personal, or familial activity, through the use of any device, regardless of  whether there is a physical trespass, if this image, sound recording, or other  physical impression could not have been achieved without a trespass unless the  device was used.  (Civ. Code, § 1708.8, subds. (a),  (b).)  There is also a constitutional right to privacy under the  California Constitution, which requires the plaintiff to allege facts  demonstrating, “(1) a legally protected privacy interest; (2) a reasonable  expectation of privacy in the circumstances; and (3) conduct by defendant  constituting a serious invasion of privacy.” (All of US or None - Riverside  Chapter v. Hamrick (2021) 64 Cal.App.5th 751, 798.)  Pomona Valley demurs to the Fifth Cause of Action for invasion  of privacy for failure to state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of  action and for uncertainty. Pomona Valley contends the complaint fails to  allege facts demonstrating an invasion of privacy under Civil Code section  1708.8, as the complaint only alleges an unwanted entry onto Plaintiff’s  property by four police officers, but there is no allegation that Pomona Valley  caused that to happen. Pomona Valley further contends the complaint fails to  allege which Defendants undertook the actions of forcibly removing Plaintiff’s  clothing, seizing her mobile phone, and restricting her freedom to practice her  religion. Pomona Valley contends the complaint does not allege facts  demonstrating that this event occurred at Pomona Valley.  In opposition, Plaintiff contends Pomona Valley’s  argument is incorrectly based on Civil Code section 1708.8, since that applies  to intrusions of privacy on to a plaintiff’s land or airspace for the purpose  of capturing video or audio recordings. Plaintiff contends her claim is based  on common law invasion of privacy, and that her right to privacy was violated  when she was forcibly restrained on false pretenses, which caused an invasion  of Plaintiff’s personal space.  The Court finds the complaint fails to allege facts  sufficient to state a cause of action for invasion of privacy, and such cause  of action is uncertain. While the Court does agree that Civil Code section  1708.8 does not apply here for the reasons Plaintiff argues, that is ultimately  beside the point. The complaint alleges that Plaintiff was forced to undress at  Defendant CH Cerritos, not at Pomona Valley. (Compl., ¶ 13.) The complaint  also alleges that incidents regarding Plaintiff’s phone and reading her bible  occurred at Defendant CH Cerritos, not at Pomona Valley. (Compl., ¶¶ 19, 20.) These  allegations conflict with paragraph 46 of the complaint, which indiscriminately  lumps all of the Defendants together into an omnibus conclusory allegation of  wrongdoing. (Compl., ¶ 46; see Perez v. Golden Empire Transit Dist. (2012)  209 Cal.App.4th 1228, 1236 [specific allegations control over general ones].)  There is no other allegation in the complaint that demonstrates Pomona Valley  having engaged in any conduct that would constitute an invasion of Plaintiff’s  privacy. Additionally, Plaintiff fails to provide the full citation supporting  her contention that a restraint constitutes an invasion of privacy, and the  Court was not able to find any such authority. (See Opp., 8:21-25.) The  complaint therefore fails to allege facts stating a cause of action against  Pomona Valley for invasion of privacy, and is uncertain.  Based on the foregoing, the Court SUSTAINS the  demurrer to the Fifth Cause of Action with leave to amend.  Sixth Cause of Action – Intentional Infliction of  Emotional Distress  To state a cause of action for intentional infliction  of emotional distress, the plaintiff must allege facts demonstrating, “(1)  defendant engaged in extreme and outrageous conduct (conduct so extreme as to  exceed all bounds of decency in a civilized community) with the intent to  cause, or with reckless disregard to the probability of causing, emotional  distress; and (2) as a result, plaintiff suffered extreme or severe emotional  distress.” (Berry v. Frazier (2023) 90 Cal.App.5th 1258, 1273.)  Pomona Valley demurs to the Sixth Cause of Action for  intentional infliction of emotional distress for failure to state facts  sufficient to constitute a cause of action and for uncertainty. Pomona Valley  contends the complaint lacks facts setting forth the alleged injurious conduct  by Pomona Valley. Pomona Valley cites the case of Larson v. UHS of Rancho  Springs, Inc. (2014) 230 Cal.App.4th 336 (Larson), as an example of  a higher burden of proving outrageous conduct in the context of a medical  procedure. Pomona Valley contends the complaint is silent as to any  allegations, other than the alleged deception of having her sign the voluntary  admission document, and contends that the complaint contains contradictory  allegations that she was involuntarily admitted and treated. Pomona Valley  further contends that the allegations of Pomona Valley forcibly restraining her  are insufficient to constitute outrageous conduct, especially if the restraint  was privileged, as well as no facts demonstrating an intent to inflict injury.  In opposition, Plaintiff contends Larson is  inapposite because Plaintiff was tricked into signing the voluntary admission  papers, and argues instead that this case is more similar to So v. Shin (2013)  212 Cal.App.4th 652 (So), where the plaintiff awoke during a procedure,  the anesthesiologist showed the plaintiff her blood in a container, and urged  her not to report the incident. Plaintiff contends Pomona Valley’s actions fell  outside the scope of professional services, as Plaintiff never validly  consented to any services being performed by Pomona Valley.  The Court finds the complaint alleges sufficient  facts to state a cause of action for intentional infliction of emotional  distress. Whether conduct is extreme and outrageous is generally a question of  fact. (Smith v. BP Lubricants USA Inc. (2021) 64 Cal.App.5th 138, 148.)  The complaint alleges that Plaintiff was deceived into voluntarily admitting  herself to Pomona Valley, and then forcibly restrained. (Compl., ¶¶ 11-12.)  Whether this conduct was extreme and outrageous is a question of fact that the  Court will not resolve on demurrer. (See Smith v. BP Lubricants USA Inc.,  supra, 64 Cal.App.5th at p. 148; see also Panterra  GP, Inc. v. Superior Court of Kern County (2022) 74 Cal. App. 5th 697, 709 [a demurrer is not the  appropriate procedure for determining the truth of disputed facts.]) The Court  also liberally construes this pleading as sufficient to support a claim for  intentional infliction of emotional distress. (Code Civ. Proc., § 452.)  The Court further finds Larson inapposite, as it does  not address the question of what constitutes extreme and outrageous conduct or  otherwise indicate that Pomona Valley’s conduct is not extreme and outrageous  as a matter of law. (See generally, Larson, supra, 230 Cal.App.4th 336.)  So reinforces the point that extreme and outrageous conduct is usually a  question of fact, and does not indicate one way or another whether Pomona  Valley’s alleged conduct was extreme and outrageous as a matter of law. (So,  supra, 212 Cal.App.4th at p. 672.)  However, as discussed above, the Court finds the Sixth Cause  of Action to be uncertain. Plaintiff lumps all of the defendants together and  does not identify which conduct of Pomona Valley is alleged to provide the  basis for the intentional infliction of emotional distress. Because some of the  alleged misconduct occurred at different facilities by different individuals,  Plaintiff must identify the specific conduct of Pomona Valley alleged to be  extreme and outrageous.  Based on  the foregoing, the Court SUSTAINS the demurrer to the Sixth Cause of Action  with leave to amend.  Seventh  Cause of Action – Discrimination  Whenever there is reasonable cause to believe  that any person or group of persons is engaged in conduct of resistance to the  full enjoyment of any of the rights described in this section, and that conduct  is of that nature and is intended to deny the full exercise of those rights,  the Attorney General, any district attorney or city attorney, or any person  aggrieved by the conduct may bring a civil action in the appropriate court by  filing with it a complaint. The complaint shall contain the following:  (1) The signature of the officer, or,  in the officer's absence, the individual  acting on behalf of the officer, or the signature of the person aggrieved.  (2) The facts pertaining to the  conduct.  (3) A request for preventive relief,  including an application for a permanent or temporary injunction, restraining  order, or other order against the person or persons responsible for the conduct,  as the complainant deems necessary to ensure the full enjoyment of the rights  described in this section.  (Civ. Code, § 52, subd. (c).)              Pomona  Valley demurs to the Seventh Cause of Action for discrimination for failure to  state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action and for uncertainty. Pomona  Valley contends the allegations regarding Plaintiff being denied an interpreter  due to her language barrier is unsupported because the complaint also alleges  that Plaintiff understood what she was being given and asked to sign what she  understood to be discharge papers which voluntarily committed her to a mental  hospital. Pomona Valley contends this is contradicted later in the complaint by  stating that she was voluntarily admitted to Defendant College Hospital. Pomona  Valley further contends Plaintiff fails to allege facts demonstrating that her  race, religion, or other protected class was the motivating factor in Pomona  Valley’s alleged conduct.              In  opposition, Plaintiff contends Pomona Valley misunderstands the complaint.  Plaintiff contends she alleges that she was discriminated against by denial of  her request for a Chinese interpreter, and that she was discriminated against  by signing what she thought were discharge papers but instead voluntarily  admitted Plaintiff to a mental hospital. Plaintiff contends the deception  renders the admission involuntary. Plaintiff contends the Unruh Act prohibits  discrimination based on language or national origin, which the complaint  alleges. Plaintiff contends the discrimination prevented her from communicating  with hospital staff and facilitated the deception of her signing the voluntary  admission papers.              The  Court finds the complaint fails to allege sufficient facts to state a cause of  action for discrimination under the Unruh Act. While the complaint alleges that  Pomona Valley refused to provide Plaintiff with a Chinese interpreter, it does  not allege any facts indicating why it refused to do so. (Compl., ¶ 11.) Pomona  Valley correctly contends that the complaint must allege facts indicating that  Plaintiff’s race or national origin was the motivating factor in refusing to  provide her with a Chinese interpreter. (See Koebke v. Bernardo Heights  Country Club (2005) 36 Cal.4th 824, 854 [must demonstrate discrimination  was motivated by the plaintiff’s protected class].) The other allegations  regarding Plaintiff’s race and language barrier are alleged against CH Cerritos.  (Compl., ¶¶ 14-15, 18, 20.) The Seventh Cause of Action is also uncertain for  the same reasons discussed above regarding all of the defendants being lumped  together.              Moreover,  there is another problem with the complaint that neither party addressed in  their respective briefs. A claim for discrimination under the Unruh Act  requires the plaintiff to sign the complaint. (Civ. Code, § 52, subd. (c)(1).)  The complaint contains no signature from Plaintiff or any verification. (See  generally, Compl.) The complaint therefore fails to comply with Civil Code  section 52, subdivision (c)(1), and is subject to demurrer.              Based on  the foregoing, the Court SUSTAINS the demurrer to the Seventh Cause of Action  for Discrimination with leave to amend.   LEGAL STANDARD – Motion to Strike              “Any party, within the time allowed to  respond to a pleading may serve and file a notice of motion to strike the whole  or any part thereof, but this time limitation shall not apply to motions  specified in subdivision (e).” (Code Civ. Proc., § 435, subd. (b)(2).)  “The court may, upon a motion made pursuant to Section 435, or at any time in  its discretion, and upon terms it deems proper: (a) Strike out any  irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted in any pleading. (b) Strike out all or any  part of any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of  this state, a court rule, or an order of the court.” (Id., § 436.)  PRELIMINARY  ISSUES – Motion to Strike              The Court notes that Plaintiff filed  the opposition on May 23, 2024, which was one day late. (See Code Civ. Proc., §  1005, subd. (b).) But, the Court also notes the opposition was served on Pomona  Valley on May 22, 2024. Therefore, the Court exercises its discretion to still  consider Plaintiff’s opposition, but admonishes Plaintiff to comply with the  requirements of the Code of Civil Procedure going forward. (See Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1300, subd. (d); Juarez  v. Wash Depot Holdings, Inc. (2018) 24 Cal.App.5th 1197, 1202.)  DISCUSSION –  Motion to Strike  Meet and Confer  Per Code of Civil Procedure section  435.5, subdivision (a), Pomona Valley was required to meet and confer in person, by  telephone, or by video conference before bringing this motion to strike.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 435.5, subd. (a).) The Court finds Pomona Valley’s meet-and-confer efforts  sufficient. (Owen Decls., ¶¶ 3-6.)  Analysis – First Through Seventh Causes of Action  The Court denies Pomona Valley’s motion to strike with respect to  the First through Seventh Causes of Action. Failure to state facts sufficient  to constitute a cause of action is grounds for a general demurrer, not a motion  to strike. (Ferraro v. Camarlinghi (2008) 161 Cal.App.4th 509, 529.)  Analysis – Punitive Damages  A claim for punitive damages is subject to a motion to strike when  the allegations fail to rise to the level of malice, oppression, or fraud  necessary under Civil Code section 3294. (Turman v. Turning Point of Central  California, Inc. (2010) 191 Cal.App.4th 53, 64.)  Given that the Court sustained the demurrer at to each cause of  action in the complaint with leave to amend, the Court DENIES the motion to  strike as moot with respect to the punitive damage allegations in paragraphs  50, 56, and 62 of the complaint, and in the prayer for relief.  Unsigned Complaint              “Every  pleading, petition, written notice of motion, or other similar paper shall be  signed by at least one attorney of record in the attorney's individual name,  or, if the party is not represented by an attorney, shall be signed by the  party. Each paper shall state the signer's address and telephone number, if  any. Except when otherwise provided by law, pleadings need not be verified or  accompanied by affidavit. An unsigned paper shall be stricken unless omission  of the signature is corrected promptly after being called to the attention of  the attorney or party.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 128.7, subd. (a).)              The Court notes that the complaint  is not signed by Plaintiff’s attorney. (Compl., p. 13.) The Court directs  Plaintiff’s counsel to sign the First Amended Complaint before filing it, or  else it will be stricken. (See Code Civ. Proc., § 128.7, subd. (a).)  Based on the foregoing, the Court DENIES the motion to strike as  to the First through Seventh Causes of Action, and DENIES the motion to strike  as moot with respect to the punitive damages allegations.  CONCLUSION  The Court SUSTAINS the demurrer to the First, Second, Third, Fourth,  Fifth, Sixth and Seventh Causes of Action with 20 days’ leave to amend.  The Court DENIES the motion to strike as to the First through  Seventh Causes of Action, and DENIES the motion to strike as moot with respect  to the punitive damages allegations.               Pomona Valley is ordered to give  notice of the Court’s ruling within five calendar days of this order.