  Case Number:  21STCV09560    Hearing Date:   October 30, 2023    Dept:  37 HEARING
DATE:                 Monday, October 30,
2023
CASE
NUMBER:                   21STCV09560
CASE NAME:                        Jason Lanc v. Nick T. Movagar, et al.  
MOVING
PARTIES:              Defendants, Nick
Movagar, Steven Yamin, Daniel Reeves, and Movagar & Yamin APLC (“MY
Defendants”)
OPPOSING
PARTY:             Plaintiff, Jason Lanc 
TRIAL
DATE:                        February 20,
2024
PROOF OF
SERVICE:           OK
                                                                                                                                                            
MOTION:                               Defendants’
Motion for Summary Judgment 
OPPOSITION:                        October 13, 2023
REPLY:                                  October 23,
2023
                                                                                                                                                            
TENTATIVE:                         Defendants’ motion for summary
judgment is denied.
 
Defendants’ motion for summary adjudication is granted as to the first,
second, third, fifth, and sixth causes of action and Plaintiff’s claim for
punitive damages. Summary adjudication is denied as to the fourth cause of
cause of action for declaratory relief. 
 
                                                                                                                                                            
Background 
 
This action arises in connection with the
representation of Jason Lanc (“Plaintiff”) by Nick Movagar, Steven Yamin,
Daniel Reeves and Movagar & Yamin, A Professional Law Corporation
(collectively “Defendants”) in his underlying personal injury action, Jason
Lanc v. Liana Hovhannisyan (the “Underlying Action”). While Defendants
represented Lanc in the Underlying Action through several stages of litigation,
Michael S. Brown (“Brown”) negotiated the Underlying Action to settlement.  Brown also represents Plaintiff in this
action. 
 
On March 11, 2021, Plaintiff filed
this lawsuit against Defendants alleging six causes of action:  (1) Intentional Interference with Contract;
(2) Conversion; (3) Breach of Fiduciary Duty; (4) Declaratory Relief; (5)
Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress; and (6) Negligent Infliction of
Emotional Distress.
 
In an effort to allow Plaintiff to
obtain the settlement sum of $250,000, which was deposited with the Court by
former Defendant and Cross-Complainant Safeco, the Parties submitted a Joint
Stipulation to the Court on July 29, 2021 to (1) Discharge Defendant and
Cross-Complainant Safeco; (2) Dismiss Plaintiff Jason Lanc’s Complaint against
Defendant and Cross-Complainant Safeco; and (3) Dismiss Defendant and
Cross-Complainant Safeco’s Cross-Complaint against all Cross-Defendants without
Prejudice. The Joint Stipulation was entered by court order on July 30, 2021. 
On May 4, 2022, the court granted Defendants’ request to
file a Cross-Complaint in this action against Plaintiff and to name as the Cross-Defendants,
Brown, and his firm California Lawyers Group LLP (“CLG”). The Cross-Complaint
alleges: (1) Equitable Indemnity; (2) Contribution; (3) Declaratory Relief
regarding Equitable Indemnity and Contribution; and (4) Quantum Meruit. On October 19, 2022, the
court sustained Plaintiff/Cross-Defendants’ demurrer to the first three causes
of action of the Cross-Complaint, without leave to amend.
Defendants/Cross-Complainants
now move for summary judgment, or summary adjudication in the alternative, on
the Complaint, as follows:
1)    
Issue 1: Defendants are entitled to summary
adjudication as to the first cause of action for Intentional Interference with
Contract because Plaintiff cannot establish each and every element of said
cause of action;
2)    
Issue
2: Defendants are entitled to summary adjudication as to the second cause of
action for Conversion because Plaintiff cannot establish each and every element
of said cause of action;
3)    
Issue
3: Defendants are entitled to summary adjudication as to the third cause of
action for Breach of Fiduciary Duty because Plaintiff cannot establish each and
every element of said cause of action;
4)    
Issue
4: Defendants are entitled to summary adjudication as to the fourth cause of
action for Declaratory Relief because Plaintiff cannot establish each and every
element of said cause of action.
5)    
Issue
5: Defendants are entitled to summary adjudication as to the fifth cause of
action for intentional infliction of emotional distress because Plaintiff
cannot establish each and every element of said cause of action;
6)    
Issue
6: Defendants are entitled to summary adjudication as to the sixth cause of
action for negligent infliction of emotional distress because Plaintiff cannot
establish each and every element of a cause of action for restitution.
7)    
Issue
7: Defendants are entitled to summary adjudication as to Plaintiff’s prayer for
punitive damages as to the First, Second, and Fifth Causes of action as
Plaintiff cannot establish the required malice, fraud, or oppression. 
 
Plaintiff opposes the motion. The court
continued the hearing on July 3, 2023, pursuant to CCP § 437c(h), to allow
Plaintiff time to conduct further discovery. Plaintiff filed new opposing
papers on October 13, 2023. Defendants filed a reply on October 23, 2023. 
 
Evidentiary Objections
Since Plaintiff was granted a continuance and the
opportunity to refile opposing papers, the court only considers the evidentiary
objections raised with his new opposing papers rather than those previously
filed in the original opposition.[1]
 
1.         Objections
to the Declaration of Nick T. Movagar
 
Objection Nos. 1-24 are overruled. The declarant sufficiently
attests to having personal knowledge of the information contained in the
declaration and attaches a true and correct copy of the documents in question.  Further, the information is not hearsay as it
is not offered for its truth but to prove some other fact or falls within a
hearsay exception.  
 
2.         Objections
to the Declaration of Joseph C. Campo
 
Objection Nos. 1-7 are overruled. The information is not
hearsay as it is not offered for its truth but to prove some other fact or
falls within a hearsay exception. Furthermore, Declarant has provided true and
correct copies of the documents in question. 
 
3.         Objections to the Declaration of
Karl Patrick Schlecht
 
Objection Nos. 1-2 are overruled.  The declarant sufficiently attests to having
personal knowledge of the information contained in the declaration and attaches
a true and correct copy of the documents in question.
 
MOTION FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT/ADJUDICATION
 
I.         Legal
Standard
 
“The purpose of the
law of summary judgment is to provide courts with a mechanism to cut through
the parties' pleadings in order to determine whether, despite their allegations,
trial is in fact necessary to resolve their dispute.” (Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 843.)  Pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure, section
437c, subdivision (a):
A party may move for summary judgment in any
action or proceeding if it is contended that the action has no merit or that
there is no defense to the action or proceeding.  The motion may be made at any time after 60 days
have elapsed since the general appearance in the action or proceeding of each
party against whom the motion is directed or at any earlier time after the
general appearance that the court, with or without notice and upon good cause
shown, may direct….  The motion shall be
heard no later than 30 days before the date of trial, unless the court for good
cause orders otherwise.  The filing of
the motion shall not extend the time within which a party must otherwise file a
responsive pleading.
(CCP, § 437c(a).) A
motion for summary judgment may be granted “if all the papers submitted show
that there is no triable issue as to any material fact and that the moving
party is entitled to a judgment as a matter of law.” (CCP, § 437c, subd. (c).) Summary adjudication may be granted as to one or more
causes of action within an action, or one or more claims for damages. (CCP, §
437c(f).)¿¿¿¿¿¿ 
“The motion shall be
supported by affidavits, declarations, admissions, answers to interrogatories,
depositions, and matters of which judicial notice shall or may be taken.  The supporting papers shall include a separate
statement setting forth plainly and concisely all material facts that the
moving party contends are undisputed. 
Each of the material facts stated shall be followed by a reference to
the supporting evidence.  The failure to
comply with this requirement of a separate statement may in the court’s
discretion constitute a sufficient ground for denial of the motion.”  (CCP, § 437c(b)(1); see also CRC, rule 3.1350(c)(2) & (d).)  
In analyzing motions
for summary judgment, courts must apply a three-step analysis: “(1) identify
the issues framed by the pleadings; (2) determine whether the moving party has
negated the opponent's claims; and (3) determine whether the opposition has
demonstrated the existence of a triable, material factual issue.” (Hinesley v. Oakshade Town Center (2005)
135 Cal.App.4th 289, 294 (Hinsley).)  
CCP § 437c(p)(2)
provides:
A defendant or cross-defendant has met his or
her burden of showing that a cause of action has no merit if the party has
shown that one or more elements of the cause of action, even if not separately
pleaded, cannot be established, or that there is a complete defense to the
cause of action.  Once the defendant or
cross-defendant has met that burden, the burden shifts to the plaintiff or
cross-complainant to show that a triable issue of one or more material facts
exists as to the cause of action or a defense thereto.  The plaintiff or cross-complainant shall not
rely upon the allegations or denials of its pleadings to show that a triable
issue of material fact exists but, instead, shall set forth the specific facts
showing that a triable issue of material fact exists as to the cause of action
or a defense thereto.
(CCP, §
437c(p)(2).)  The court must “view the
evidence in the light most favorable to the opposing party and accept all
inferences reasonably drawn therefrom.” 
(Hinesley, supra, 135
Cal.App.4th at p. 294; Dore v. Arnold
Worldwide, Inc. (2006) 39 Cal.4th 384, 389 [Courts “liberally construe the
evidence in support of the party opposing summary judgment and resolve doubts
concerning the evidence in favor of that party.”].)  A motion for summary judgment must be denied
where the moving party’s evidence does not prove all material facts, even in
the absence of any opposition (Leyva v.
Sup. Ct. (1985) 164 Cal.App.3d 462, 475) or where the opposition is weak (Salasguevara v. Wyeth Labs., Inc. (1990)
222 Cal.App.3d 379, 384, 387). 
II.        Factual Summary[2]
In November 2018,
Plaintiff hired Defendants (or “M&Y”) to represent him in the Underlying Action.  Defendants originally handled the matter but
in July 2013, Plaintiff hired Brown of CLG. (UMF 2.) In May 2020, Defendants placed
a lien for attorney’s fees as to any settlement paid by the insurance carrier,
Safeco. (UMF 3; Compl. ¶ 24.) On July 21, 2020, Brown notified Defendants that
the Underlying Action had settled for Safeco’s policy limit of $250,000.00.
(UMF 4.) Safeco issued a single settlement check to Brown listing Plaintiff,
CLG, and Defendants as payees. (UMF 5.) 
Brown requested that
Defendants allow CLG to endorse the check on its behalf, but Defendants
refused, asserting that it was entitled to recover its fees and endorsing the
check would forfeit Defendants’ legal rights under the charging lien[3].
(UMF 6; Defendants’ Compendium of Evidence “DCOE” Ex. F.)
Plaintiff asserts
that Defendants did not have an enforceable lien because Defendants failed to
comply with Business & Professions Code § 6147, which required that both
Plaintiff and Defendants sign the contingency fee agreement.  Defendants had failed to sign the agreement.
(Plaintiff’s Compendium of Evidence “PCOE” Movagar Depo. at p. 48:20-22, Brown
Decl. ¶¶ 11-13.) Absent an enforceable contract, Plaintiff argues Defendants
had no right to enforce the lien. (Brown Decl. ¶¶ 11-13.) 
Due to Defendants'
refusal to endorse the check, Plaintiff asserts Defendants intentionally
delayed Plaintiff’s receipt of his settlement proceeds and caused Plaintiff
harm. Plaintiff brought his action alleging six causes of action and a claim
for punitive damages against Defendants. Defendants now move for summary
judgment, or summary adjudication as to all causes of action in the Complaint
and the Prayer for punitive damages. 
III.      Discussion
A.        First
Cause of Action – Intentional Interference with Contract
 
“To
prevail on a cause of action for intentional interference with contractual
relations, a plaintiff must plead and prove (1) the existence of a valid contract
between the plaintiff and a third party; (2) the defendant's knowledge of that
contract; (3) the defendant's intentional acts designed to induce a breach or
disruption of the contractual relationship; (4) actual breach or disruption of
the contractual relationship; and (5) resulting damage.” (Reeves v. Hanlon (2004) 33 Cal.4th 1140, 1148.)
 
Defendants
assert that they had the right to refuse Mr. Brown’s request that they endorse
the settlement check in the Underlying Action. Defendants offer evidence that
it provided Plaintiff’s counsel with three suggestions to resolve the fee
dispute: (1) Have Safeco issue two checks, one for attorney’s fees and costs
and one for the remaining portion of the settlement, (2) the parties attend an
expedited fee arbitration, or (3) CLG could place the disputed fee portion in a
third-party escrow account. (Movagar Decl. Ex. F-G.)
 
Plaintiff
does not dispute that he rejected the alternatives offered and instead
requested that Defendants provide written authorization that the settlement
check be deposited with CLG. (Id. Ex. F.) Defendants refused based on
the belief that the endorsement would extinguish the lien. Plaintiff now asserts that the Defendants’ refusal to
enforce the check interfered with Plaintiff’s relationship with CLG and Brown,
and their efforts to distribute settlement proceeds to Plaintiff as required by
the terms of the contingency agreement between CLG and Plaintiff.
 
Where the contract at issue is at will, the plaintiff
must allege an independent wrongful conduct to prevail on a claim for
interference with contractual relations. (See Ixchel Pharma, LLC v. Biogen,
Inc. (2020) 9 Cal.5th 1130,
1148 (Ixchel) [“[A]llowing interference with at-will contract claims
without requiring independent wrongfulness risks chilling legitimate business
competition.”].) The parties do not dispute that the contingency agreement
between Plaintiff and CLG is an at-will contract, meaning either party may
terminate the agreement. (Id. at p. 1147 [“The contracting parties
presumably bargained for these terms, aware of the risk that the relationship
may be terminated at any time. At-will contractual relations are thus not
cemented in the way that a contract not terminable at will is.”].) Therefore,
pursuant to Ixchel, Plaintiff must allege an independent wrongfulness
apart from the interference to prevail on the first cause of action. 
 
Defendants assert it had no
legal obligation to endorse the check, that it was entitled to pursue a lien on
the settlement in the underlying action, and a right to seek repayment for
services rendered. Therefore, the burden shifts to Plaintiff to show that
Defendants engaged in an independent wrongful act that interfered with
Plaintiff and CLG’s contractual relationship. 
 
First, Plaintiff correctly
asserts that because the contingency agreement between Plaintiff and Defendants
was not signed by Defendants, the agreement is void for failing to comply with
Business & Professions Code § 6147. (PCOE Ex. 1 [Movagar Depo. at p. 48:20-22,]; Brown Decl. ¶¶ 11-13.) “[T]he statutory language [Business and Professions Code section 6147] is clear” and
“in contingency fee cases there must be a written
agreement signed by both the attorney and the client.
And if the agreement fails to comply with these and other requirements not
relevant here, the client may elect to void the contract.” (O&C Creditors Group, LLC v. Stephens & Stephens XII, LLC
(2019) 42 Cal.App.5th 546, 576.) “Failure to comply with any provision of this
section renders the agreement voidable at the option of the plaintiff, and the
attorney shall thereupon be entitled to collect a reasonable fee.” (Bus. &
Prof. Code, § 6147(b); see also Fergus v. Songer
(2007) 150 Cal.App.4th 552, 559.) Defendants do not dispute that they did not
sign the contingency agreement. Therefore, Plaintiff has presented sufficient
evidence that the contingency fee agreement between Plaintiff and Defendants is
void at Plaintiff’s election. 
 
Plaintiff further argues
that because the attorney’s lien is created only by contract and that because
Defendants’ contingency fee agreement is void, the Defendants’ charging lien
was invalid. (See Fletcher v. Davis (2004) 33 Cal.4th
61, 66 [“But
in California, with a few exceptions not
pertinent here [citation], ‘an attorney's lien is created only by contract....
Unlike a service lien or a mechanic's lien, for example [citation], an
attorney's lien is not created by the mere fact that an attorney has performed
services in a case.’ [Citation.]”.) However, Plaintiff fails to
cite any legal authority showing that Defendants were obligated to remove the
lien or endorse the settlement check. 
 
“[E]ven
if the means used by the defendant are entirely lawful, intentional
interference with prospective economic advantage constitutes actionable wrong
if it results in damages to the plaintiff, and the defendant's conduct is not
excused by a legally recognized privilege or justification.” (Lowell v. Mother's Cake & Cookie Co. (1978) 79 Cal.App.3d 13, 20; see also Sade Shoe Co. v. Oschin & Snyder (1984) 162
Cal.App.3d 1174, 1179 [accord].) Here, Plaintiff fails to show that Defendants’
refusal to endorse the settlement check because it would extinguish the lien
was not a legally recognized privilege or justification. Moreover, Plaintiff
fails to show that Defendants were prohibited from seeking to recover their
attorney’s fees, even though it would cause delays in disbursement of the
settlement proceeds to Plaintiff. 
 
First,
pursuant to Business & Professions Code § 6147(b), even if the
contingency agreement between Plaintiff and Defendants was void at Plaintiff’s
election, Defendants remain entitled to collect a reasonable fee. (See also Fracasse v. Brent (1972) 6 Cal.3d 784, 792 (Fracasse) [“In summary,
we hold that an attorney discharged with or without cause is entitled to
recover the reasonable value of his services rendered to the time of discharge.”];
Southern California Gas Co. v. Flannery (2016) 5
Cal.App.5th 476, 494 [“The attorney's lien survives even after discharge,
although the attorney's recovery is limited to the reasonable value of services
actually performed (i.e., quantum meruit), rather than the full percentage
specified in the contract.”].) “Still, it is ‘permissible, and even advisable,’
for an attorney to file a notice of lien in the underlying action, meaning the
action where the attorney is the client's attorney of record or—in the case of
an attorney who has been discharged—where the attorney previously represented
the client.” (Southern California Gas Co., 5 Cal.App.5th at p.
494.)
 
Because
Defendants were justified in seeking to recover their reasonable attorney’s
fees for services rendered, Plaintiff fails to present evidence of independent
wrongful conduct sufficient to sustain a claim for interference with
contractual relations. Here, Defendants suggested alternatives to settle the
fee dispute.  That alternatives would
result in litigation that would delay the disbursement of the settlement
proceeds to Plaintiff is insufficient to sustain a claim for contractual
interference with contractual relations. (See Pacific Gas &
Electric Co. v. Bear Stearns & Co.
(1990) 50 Cal.3d 1118, 1123 [“We have concluded that to allow either cause of
action to be stated when the only interference alleged is that defendant
induced the bringing of potentially meritorious litigation would be an
unwarranted expansion of the scope of these torts and a pernicious barrier to
free access to the courts.”].)
 
Defendants
also argue that Plaintiff cannot establish damages and proximate causation.
Defendants present evidence that the medical liens, totaling $259,892.00,
exceeded the settlement amount of $250,000.00 and that Plaintiff is not
entitled to a net settlement. (Campo. Decl. Ex. 7 [Plaintiff’s SROGS Nos.
3-4].) Defendants also present evidence that the largest lien is owed to Dr.
John Chiu, totaling $244,622.00, and that the lien remains outstanding. (Movagar
Decl. Ex. E; Schelchet Decl. ¶ 4, Ex. 1.) Moreover, Brown and CLG claim a fee
of $112,500.00 under their retainer agreement (Movagar Decl. Ex. B.) In
addition, Plaintiff took out a loan and owes over $11,000.00 in loan repayments
to Golden Pear Funding. (Campo Decl. Ex. 1.)
 
Defendants
have presented sufficient evidence that Plaintiff is not entitled to any of the
net proceeds from the settlement and that the harm he suffered would have
occurred regardless of Defendants’ actions. Moreover, Defendants provided
evidence that Plaintiff received a portion of the settlement proceeds because Brown
issued two checks totaling $65,000.00 to Plaintiff, dated August 20, 2021, and
January 28, 2022. (Campo Decl. Ex. 2 [Plaintiff’s SROGS No. 25], 4.) Despite
receiving $65,000.00, Plaintiff still alleges he was harmed, and that Defendants’
conduct caused him to experience prolonged homelessness and emotional harm. The
court finds that Defendants have shown a lack of proximate causation between Defendants’
actions and Plaintiff’s harm. Therefore, the burden shifts to Plaintiff to
prove proximate causation. 
 
Plaintiff
argues that because the medical lienholders often accept compromises for less
than the amount owned, Plaintiff could still be entitled to funds from the
settlement proceeds. (Brown Decl. ¶ 42.) The possibility that Brown might yet
settle the $244,622.00 lien owed to Dr. John Chiu for less than what is owed,
does not establish that Plaintiff is entitled to the portion of the settlement
proceeds. Moreover, Plaintiff already received $65,000.00 from the settlement
proceeds.  Plaintiff has not presented
evidence that he would have been entitled to a sum greater than that amount. 
 
The
delay in Plaintiff’s receipt of the settlement proceeds is not evidence of an
independent wrong sufficient to sustain a claim for contractual interference or
that Defendants proximately caused Plaintiff’s harm. (See Lanc Decl. ¶ 21.) 
 
For
the reasons stated above, summary adjudication of the first cause of action is
granted. 
 
            B.        Second Cause of Action – Conversion
 
“Conversion
is the wrongful exercise of dominion over the property of another. The elements
of a conversion claim are: (1) the plaintiff's ownership or right to possession
of the property; (2) the defendant's conversion by a wrongful act or
disposition of property rights; and (3) damages. Conversion is a strict
liability tort. The foundation of the action rests neither in the knowledge nor
the intent of the defendant. Instead, the tort consists in the breach of an
absolute duty; the act of conversion itself is tortious. Therefore, questions
of the defendant's good faith, lack of knowledge, and motive are ordinarily
immaterial. [Citations.]” (Los Angeles Federal Credit Union v. Madatyan (2012)
209 Cal.App.4th 1383.)
 
Defendants argue that the second cause of action fails
because Plaintiff has no possessory interest in the attorney fee sum such that
Defendants could not dispossess Plaintiff of any property. Defendants cite no legal
authority to support this assertion. That Plaintiff does not have a possessory
interest in the attorney fee sum retained by Brown does not mean that Plaintiff
has no possessory interest in the remaining settlement funds or that the
recovery Defendants seek in reasonable attorney’s fees will come from the
attorney fee portion allocated to Brown. 
 
Defendants offered evidence that they are not in
possession of the settlement proceeds and they have never received any payment
from the settlement proceeds. (Movagar Decl. ¶ 12.) Brown has already received
his $112,500.00 in fees on August 19, 2021. (Campo Decl. ¶ 5, Ex. 3.) Brown has
also already made disbursements of the settlement proceeds to Plaintiff and
negotiated compromises on the medical liens. ((Movagar Decl. Ex.
F-G.) There is no evidence Defendants have possession of Plaintiff’s property
or have exercised dominion over such property sufficient to sustain a claim for
conversion. (See Plummer v. Day/Eisenberg, LLP
(2010) 184 Cal.App.4th 38, 50 (Plummer).)
 
As
Defendants are entitled to recover reasonable attorney’s fees for services
rendered, there would be no wrongful act or disposition of property rights if
Defendants recovered fees from Plaintiff’s settlement. 
 
Summary
adjudication is granted as to the second cause of action. 
 
C.        Third
Cause of Action – Breach of Fiduciary Duty
 
The elements for a breach of fiduciary duty cause of
action are “the existence of a fiduciary relationship, its breach, and damage
proximately caused by that breach.” (Thomson v. Canyon (2011) 198
Cal.App.4th¿594, 604.) 
 
Plaintiff’s Complaint alleges that the Defendants’
breached the fiduciary relationship between attorney and client by depriving
Plaintiff of the receipt and possession of the settlement payments. (Compl. ¶
50.) 
 
Defendants assert there was no breach because they were
entitled to preserve their own interest in the payment of its fees by
requesting inclusion on the settlement check. Furthermore, Defendants argue
there is no evidence of damage to Plaintiff proximately caused by Defendants
seeking to recover their fees. 
 
The court agrees. 
The burden now shifts to Plaintiff to show Defendants had no legal right
to receipt and possession of Plaintiff’s settlement payments. Plaintiff fails
to satisfy this burden. 
 
First, Business & Professions Code § 6147(b)
recognizes that despite a contingency agreement being void, the attorney
remains entitled to collect a reasonable fee. Second, in Plummer, the
Court of Appeal found that an attorney who places a lien on a client’s
prospective recovery does not violate rule 3-300 of the Rules of Professional
Conduct despite acquiring an interest that is adverse to the client. (Plimmer,
supra, 184 Cal.App.4th at p. 49-50 [“In the absence of
contrary binding authority, we adopt the California State Bar's sound
reasoning. A contingency fee agreement, such as the retention agreement here,
need not comply with rule 3–300 to create an attorney's lien. Plummer's lien is
not invalid for violating that rule. Day/Eisenberg thus fails to show Plummer
had no right to possess the settlement funds as a matter of law.”].) Lastly, in
Fracasse, the California Supreme Court recognized that a discharged
attorney is entitled to recover the reasonable value of his services. (Fracasse, supra, 6 Cal.3d
at p. 792.)
 
The court
finds that Defendants have not breached their fiduciary duty to Plaintiff by
seeking to recover their reasonable attorney’s fees because Defendants are
entitled to seek reimbursement for services rendered. Lastly, as explained
above, the court also agrees that Plaintiff fails to establish causation due to
Defendants exercising their right to recover their fees or that Defendants did
in fact take possession of Plaintiffs’ settlement payments. 
 
Summary
adjudication is granted as to the third cause of action. 
            D.        Fourth Cause of Action – Declaratory
Relief 
 
To state a declaratory relief claim, the
plaintiff must allege a proper subject of declaratory relief and an actual
controversy involving justiciable questions relating to the party’s rights or
obligations.  (See CCP, § 1060; Jolley v. Chase Home Finance, LLC
(2013) 213 Cal.App.4th 872, 909.) “The
fundamental basis of declaratory relief is the existence of an actual, present
controversy over a proper subject.” (Otay Land Co. v. Royal Indemnity Co.
(2008) 169 Cal.App.4th 556, 562 [internal citations and quotations omitted].) A
declaratory judgment serves to quiet or stabilize a potential justiciable
dispute. (See Osseous Technologies of America, Inc. v.
DiscoveryOrtho Partners LLC (2010) 191 Cal.App.4th 357,
364.) 
 
“Plaintiff desires a declaration of his rights with
respect to the defendants, and each of them, as to M&Y’s lien rights if any
and SAFECO’s obligation to distribute settlement funds in accord with the
court’s declaration of contractual rights and duties.” (Comp. ¶ 58.) Defendants
argue that Plaintiff’s declaratory relief claim is superfluous because the
issues are fully engaged in other causes of action. (See
Hood v. Superior Court (1995) 33 Cal.App.4th 319, 324.)

 
As seen below, the court grants summary adjudication on
the first through third and fifth through sixth causes of action.  Plaintiff has no other viable claims in which
to resolve the issue of whether Defendants have a right to a portion of the
settlement funds. The court finds that a present controversy exists that can be
decided in this action regarding whether Defendants are entitled to recover
their attorney’s fees and in what amount. 
 
As Defendants have failed to show that no triable issue
of fact exists as to the fourth cause of action, summary adjudication is
denied. 
 
E.        Fifth and
Sixth Causes of Action – Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress and
Negligent Infliction of Emotional Distress
 
The tort of intentional infliction of emotional distress
(“IIED”) is committed when the defendant's conduct is intentionally intrusive
and outrageous and has a traumatic effect on the plaintiff’s emotional
tranquility. (Alcorn v. Anbro Engineering (1970) 2 Cal. 3rd 493, 498.)
“[B]ehavior may be considered outrageous if a defendant (1) abuses a relation
or position which gives him power to damage the plaintiff’s interest; (2) knows
the plaintiff is susceptible to injuries through mental distress; or (3) acts
intentionally or unreasonably with the recognition that the acts are likely to
result in illness through mental distress.” (Bogard v. Employers Cas. Co.
(1985) 164 Cal. App.3d 606, 616.) California courts have repeatedly recognized
that negligent infliction of emotional distress (“NIED”) is not an independent
tort, but the tort of negligence such that the traditional elements of duty,
breach of duty, causation, and damages apply. (See, e.g., Spates v. Dameron
Hospital Association (2003) 114 Cal.App.4th 208, 213; Marlene F. v.
Affiliated Psychiatric Medical Clinic, Inc. (1989) 48 Cal.3d 583, 588.)
 
Defendants argue that emotional distress damages are not
recoverable against an attorney. However, the court agrees with Plaintiff’s
observation that the cases cited by Defendants merely hold that in a legal
malpractice action, emotional distress damages are not recoverable. (See, e.g.,
Merenda v. Superior Court
(1992) 3 Cal.App.4th 1, 10 (Merenda) disapproved in part by
Ferguson v. Lieff, Cabraser, Heimann & Bernstein
(2003) 30 Cal.4th 1037; Smith v. Superior
Court (1992) 10 Cal.App.4th 1033, 1038-39 (Smith).)
 
Despite Defendants failing to cite case law that
emotional distress damages are never recoverable against an attorney, the court
finds that Defendants have presented sufficient evidence that they were
entitled as a matter of law to recover their attorney’s fees and that such
conduct is not evidence of extreme and outrageous sufficient to support claims
for IIED and NIED. (Wong v. Jing (2010) 189
Cal.App.4th 1354, 1378 [Holding that “serious emotional distress” required for
negligent infliction of emotional distress is functionally the same as “severe
emotional distress” required for intentional infliction of emotional
distress.”].) Thus, the burden shifts to Plaintiff to show that it has a viable
claim for IIED and NIED against Defendants. 

Plaintiff fails to show that case law supports a finding that emotional
distress damages are available against an attorney in fee dispute cases, where
similar to a legal malpractice case, “the interest of the client is economic,
[and] serious emotional distress is not an inevitable consequence of the loss
of money and, as noted, the precedents run strongly against recovery.” (Merenda,
supra, 3 Cal.App.4th p. 10; see also Smith, supra, 10
Ca.App.4th at p. 1039.)
 
In
Erlich v. Menezes (1999) 21 Cal.4th 543, the California
Supreme Court held found that “damages for mental suffering and emotional
distress are generally not recoverable in an action for breach of an ordinary
commercial contract in California. [Citation.] ‘Recovery for emotional
disturbance will be excluded unless the breach also caused bodily harm or the
contract or the breach is of such a kind that serious emotional disturbance was
a particularly likely result.’ [Citation.]” (Id. at p. 558-559.)
 
Here,
Plaintiff fails to present evidence that Defendants’ actions in seeking to
recover their attorney’s fees constituted severe and outrageous conduct
sufficient to support claims for IIED and NIED. Thus, summary adjudication is
granted as to the fifth and sixth causes of action. 
 
            G.        Plaintiff’s Prayer for Punitive Damages
 
Punitive
damages may be imposed where it is proven by clear and convincing evidence that
the
defendant
has been guilty of oppression, fraud, or malice. (Civ. Code, § 3294 (a).) “Malice”
is defined in Civil Code § 3294(c)(1) as “conduct which is intended by the
defendant to cause injury” or “despicable conduct which is carried on by the
defendant with a willful and conscious disregard of the rights or safety of
others.” “Oppression” is as “despicable conduct subjecting a person to cruel
and unjust hardship in conscious disregard of that person’s rights.” (Civ.
Code, § 3294(c)(2).) The term “despicable” has been defined in the case law as
actions that are “base,” “vile,” or “contemptible.”  (Shade Foods, Inc. v. Innovative Products
Sales & Marketing, Inc. (2000) 78 Cal.App.4th 847, 891.) Fraud means “an intentional misrepresentation, deceit, or
concealment of a material fact known to the defendant with the intention on the
part of the defendant of thereby depriving a person of property or legal rights
or otherwise causing injury.” (Civ. Code, § 3294(c)(3).) 
 
“[S]ummary judgment ‘on the issue of punitive damages is proper’ only
‘when no reasonable jury could find the plaintiff's evidence to be clear and
convincing proof of malice, fraud or oppression.’ [Citation].” (Spinks v.
Equity Residential Briarwood Apartments (2009) 171 Cal.App.4th 1004, 1053.)
 
Defendants argue that the Complaint lacks sufficient facts that
Defendants’ conduct was malicious, fraudulent, oppressive, or with conscious
disregard to Plaintiff’s rights. “Mere negligence, even gross negligence, is not sufficient to justify
such an award” for punitive damages. (Kendall Yacht Corp. v. United
California Bank (1975) 50 Cal.App.3d 949,958.) The burden shifts to Plaintiff to offer evidence that a jury could find
by clear and convincing evidence that Defendants’ conduct is malicious,
fraudulent, or oppressive. 
 
Plaintiff’s opposition states in conclusory fashion that “Plaintiff has proffered evidence that
defendants maliciously, willfully and in conscious disregard of plaintiff’s
rights asserted an unlawful charging lien, and obstructed efforts to disburse
the appropriate amount of settlement proceeds to plaintiff. That conduct pushed
plaintiff into homelessness and caused him emotional distress. This is
sufficient to meet plaintiff’s burden, and defendants’ substitute motions
should be denied.” (Opp. at p. 17:14-18.) Plaintiff fails to show that
Defendants’ conduct in placing a charging lien on the settlement proceeds and
delaying payment of the settlement proceeds was malicious, oppressive, or
fraudulent. 
 
As
explained above, Plaintiff has failed to show that he is entitled to a portion
of the settlement proceeds since one medical lien remains outstanding.
Secondly, Defendants have a legal right to seek payment for services rendered
even if it would harm Plaintiff’s economic interests. Third, Plaintiff’s
evidence of malicious or oppressive conduct refers only to the financial and
mental hardships Plaintiff suffered and fails to show that Defendants
proximately caused said hardship. (See Lank Depo. at pp. 14:17-19, 15:24- 16:1,
68:9-16, 69:10-25; 70:3-6, 70:24-71:7, 71:18-23, 72:21-24; 77:8-14,78:16-79:3;
111:1- 10; Candiotti Depo. at pp. 24:7-11, 25:12-15, 43:21-44:2, 44:16-45:25.)
The fact that Defendants’ conduct had a “domino effect” that led to Plaintiff’s
hardships, is insufficient evidence that Defendants proximately caused
Plaintiff’s harm. (See Lank Depo. at p. 69:17, 23-25.)
 
“‘Punitive
damages by definition are not intended to compensate the injured party, but
rather to punish the tortfeasor whose wrongful action was intentional or
malicious, and to deter him and others from similar extreme conduct.’” (Ferguson v. Lieff, Cabraser, Heimann & Bernstein (2003)
30 Cal.4th 1037, 1046 citing City of Newport v. Fact
Concerts, Inc. (1981) 453 U.S. 247, 266–267.) Here, Plaintiff’s
economic and emotional distress stemmed from a fee dispute and Plaintiff fails
to present evidence that Defendants’ conduct was intentionally or maliciously
wrongful to support a claim for punitive damages. Moreover, Plaintiff fails to
show that a triable issue of fact exists that precludes the summary
adjudication on the issue of punitive damages. 
 
Summary
adjudication as to the claim for punitive damages is granted. 
 
Conclusion
 
Defendants’ motion for summary
judgment is denied.
 
Defendants’ motion for summary
adjudication is granted as first, second, third, fifth, and sixth causes of
action and Plaintiff’s claim for punitive damages. Summary adjudication is
denied as to the fourth cause of cause of action for declaratory relief. 
 
Dated:
October ___, 2023                                          _______________________________
                                                                                    Gail
Killefer
                                                                                    Judge,
Los Angeles Superior Court
 
 
 


