..................... ..................... ..................... ......
The summary displayed below was created by an LLM named 'llama3-8b-8192':
Here is the YAML summary of the Judge's tentative ruling:

```
Case Number: 22SMCV02196
Plaintiff's Name: MB
Defendant's Name: DDZ
People-Names: MB, DDZ
Company-Names: None
Places: Los Angeles County, Orange County, California
Dates: September 5, 2024, July 10, 2025
Events: Petition/Motion to Compel Arbitration, Hearing Date, Status Conference
Money: None
Intentions: To compel binding arbitration of the claims in Plaintiff's operative complaint
Facts: Plaintiff signed an arbitration agreement covering their claims, Defendant asserts that the instant claims are required to go to arbitration
Disputes: Plaintiff's claims (breach of contract, disclosure of private facts, and injunctive relief) versus Defendant's assertion that the claims are subject to arbitration
Acts: Defendant moves to compel binding arbitration, Plaintiff did not file an opposition to the motion
Agreements: Surrogacy Agreement, California Arbitration Act, Federal Arbitration Act
Laws: California Code of Civil Procedure, California Civil Code, Federal Arbitration Act
Case Citations: Moncharsh v. Heily & Blase (1992), AT&T Mobility LLC v. Concepcion (2011), Comedy Club, Inc. v. Improv West Assocs. (9th Cir. 2009), Engalla v. Permanente Med. Grp., Inc. (1997), Higgins v. Superior Crout (2006), Avery v. Integrated Healthcare Holdings, Inc. (2013), Mitri v. Arnel Mgmt. Co. (2007)
Statutes: Code of Civil Procedure, California Civil Code
Roles: Judge, Plaintiff, Defendant
Significant Statements:
- "Under California and federal law, public policy favors arbitration as an efficient and less expensive means of resolving private disputes."
- "Courts resolve doubts about an arbitration agreement's scope in favor of arbitration."
- "The moving party bears the initial burden of showing the existence of an agreement to arbitrate by a preponderance of the evidence."
- "The Court orders Plaintiff's claims to arbitration, as discussed above. The entire action is STAYED pending the completion of the arbitration."
```

And here is a summary of the Judge's tentative ruling in English text:

The Judge's tentative ruling grants the Defendant's motion to compel binding arbitration of the claims in the Plaintiff's operative complaint. The ruling is based on the Surrogacy Agreement signed by the parties, which provides for binding arbitration in the event of a dispute. The Judge finds that the Defendant has met its burden to demonstrate the existence of an arbitration agreement between the parties that covers the Plaintiff's claims. Since the Plaintiff did not file an opposition to the motion, the Judge orders the claims to be arbitrated and stays the entire action pending the completion of the arbitration. A status conference is set for July 10, 2025, at 8:30 a.m.
