 Case Number:  22SMCV02253    Hearing Date:   September 5, 2024    Dept:  M CASE NAME:           Finerty v. Lobb,
et al.
CASE NO.:                22SMCV02253
MOTION:                  Motion
to Compel Third Party Compliance
HEARING DATE:   9/5/2024
 
Legal
Standard
            
If a party fails to obey a
court order compelling it to provide a discovery response, “the court may make
those orders that are just, including the imposition of an issue sanction, an
evidence sanction, or a terminating sanction . . . In lieu of or in addition to
this sanction, the court may impose a monetary sanction . . ..” (CCP §§
2030.290(c), 2030.300(e), 2031.300(c), 2031.320(c).) Misuse of the discovery
process, which includes disobeying a court order to provide discovery, is
conduct subject to sanctions. (CCP § 2023.010(g).) Possible sanctions are: 
 
(a) [A] monetary sanction
ordering that one engaging in the misuse of the discovery process, or any
attorney advising that conduct, or both pay the reasonable expenses, including
attorney's fees, incurred by anyone as a result of that conduct…. 
 
(b) [A]n issue sanction
ordering that designated facts shall be taken as established in the action in
accordance with the claim of the party adversely affected by the misuse of the
discovery process. The court may also impose an issue sanction by an order
prohibiting any party engaging in the misuse of the discovery process from
supporting or opposing designated claims or defenses. 
 
(c) [A]n evidence sanction by
an order prohibiting any party engaging in the misuse of the discovery process
from introducing designated matters in evidence. 
 
(d) [A] terminating sanction by
one of the following orders: 
 
(1) An order
striking out the pleadings or parts of the pleadings of any party engaging in
the misuse of the discovery process. 
 
(2) An order
staying further proceedings by that party until an order for discovery is
obeyed. 
 
(3) An order
dismissing the action, or any part of the action, of that party. 
 
(4) An order
rendering a judgment by default against that party. 
 
(e) [A] contempt sanction by an
order treating the misuse of the discovery process as a contempt of court. 
 
(CCP § 2023.030.) 
 
The party seeking to impose
sanctions need only show the failure to obey earlier discovery orders. (Puritan
Ins. Co. v. Superior Court (1985) 171 Cal.App.3d 877, 884 [interpreting
former statute dealing with “refusal” to comply].) However, numerous cases hold
that severe sanctions (i.e., terminating or evidentiary sanctions) for failure
to comply with a court order are allowed only where the failure was willful. (R.S.
Creative, Inc. v. Creative Cotton, Ltd. (1999) 75 Cal.App.4th 486, 495; Vallbona
v. Springer (1996) 43 Cal.App.4th 1525, 1545; Biles v. Exxon Mobil Corp.
(2004) 124 Cal.App.4th 1315, 1327.) The burden of proof then shifts to the
party seeking to avoid sanctions to establish a satisfactory excuse for his or
her conduct. (Corns v. Miller (1986) 181 Cal.App.3d 195, 201.) 
 
Analysis
 
Plaintiffs Cynthia D. Finerty and
RSH Properties I LLC move for an order appointing a forensic computer expert to
investigate non-parties Realty Advisors and Asset Managers Inc. (RAAM), Joseph
Duerr, and Christopher Duerr’s (hereinafter, the Responding Parties) computers,
hard drives, cloud storage devices and cell phones used to conduct RAAM’s
business. Plaintiff also requests sanctions of up to $20,000.00 for costs
associated with bringing the instant motion along with contempt sanctions.
 
On October 31, 2023, the Court
granted Plaintiffs’ motion to compel and ordered the Responding Parties to
produce responsive documents in their “native format,” and to provide a
code-compliant “affidavit regarding the produced records,” among other orders. Plaintiffs
bring this motion claiming that RAAM disregarded the Court’s October 31, 2023
order. Plaintiffs assert that RAAM (i) failed to produce certain documents
requested by the business records subpoena; (ii) failed to provide a code-compliant
statement of compliance; (iii) failed to produce documents in their native
format; and (iv) provided a perjurious custodian of record affidavit that fails
to authenticate nearly 60,000 pages of documents. Plaintiffs state that they
need this information and documents to prosecute their claims and prepare for
trial, and that their failure to produce documents in the native format
warrants a forensic investigation of RAAM’s computers, hard drives, cloud
storage devices and cell phones used to conduct RAAM’s business.
 
“Native” Format Production
 
Plaintiffs assert that the Responding
Parties have not produced certain key documents in the native format. On
November 20, 2023, the Responding Parties served a supplemental production of
approximately 12,000 pages of documents. (Shaffie Decl., ¶ 5.) They continued
producing approximately 135,000 additional pages of documents in piecemeal
fashion, including on November 21, 2023, November 22, 2023, November 27, 2023,
November 28, 2023, December 18, 2023, February 5, 2024, March 1, 2024, April 2,
2024, and April 8, 2024. (Id.) Plaintiffs note that the Responding Parties produced
some, but not all, documents in their “native” format, namely 139 documents in
.doc or .docx format. Plaintiffs argue that conspicuously missing from these
native format productions are three property management agreements and other agreements
on which Duerr relies on for his authority over decedent’s affairs. (Shaffie
Decl., ¶¶ 5-8.) Plaintiffs contend that the Responding Parties failed to
produce the native format of compensation agreements Duerr drafted on behalf of
Strum, an employment agreement between RAAM and Strum, and an amendment to
Public Agreement No. 2, among other unspecified documents. (Shaffie Decl., Exs.
7-10.)
 
            The three documents
were executed in 2007 and 2015. The Responding Parties argue that they do not
have the native documents. As to the 2007 documents, the native versions were
lost during a 2014 burglary.  (Chang
Decl. ¶ 5, Ex. 6.) The three documents were executed in 2007 and 2015. The
Responding Parties do not remember who drafted the 2015 document, and thus do
not know if RAAM ever had an electronic version of the 2015 document. (Chang
Decl., ¶ 6, Ex. 8.)  With one document
created 17 years ago, and the most recent 9 years ago, the Court is unable to
conclude that the Responding Parties have the “native” format documents. It is
not unreasonable that they might have lost the original word processing files
in the intervening decades. Plaintiff has therefore failed to show persuasively
that the Responding Parties violated the court order by willfully failing to
produce documents in their native format to which they have access/control.  The Court, however, is willing to order a forensic
examination of RAAM’s work devices for the three property management agreements
and the July 23, 2015, certificate.
 
Arbitration Materials
 
Plaintiffs demonstrate that certain
responsive documents were not produced pursuant to the Court’s order, but were
later produced by the Responding Parties in an arbitration matter. On April 10,
2024, in the arbitration matter, RAAM produced records of private jet flights
it took and purportedly charged back to Howard. (Shaffie Decl., ¶ 9.) Such
documents were responsive to request nos. 6 (“any documents related to your
management of the Trust”) and 9 (“any documents related to your management of
RSH’s assets”). Documents are defined, in part, as “expense account reports, .
. . journals, . . . billing statements AND descriptions of billed amounts,
financial statements.” The Responding Parties explain that these records were
not charges to Howard but were merely expenses incurred by RAAM related to
Howard. Even if this is the case, these documents would still be responsive to requests
nos. 6 and 9. These requests would require production of documents showing
RAAM’s expenses generated in the course of managing Howard’s assets, even if
RAAM did not request reimbursement or the expenses ultimately went unpaid by
Howard. Thus, these documents should have been produced. The Court is not
persuaded, however, that this failure was made in bad faith or willful.  
 
Plaintiffs also argue that RAAM
should have produced 75 pages of heavily redacted bank records in response to
the subpoena, which were served in the arbitration matter. (Shaffie Decl., ¶ 9.)
Plaintiffs argue that these documents were responsive to category nos. 2, 9,
44, and 51 in the subpoena. In response, the Responding Parties explain that
these are RAAM’s own bank statements, which were not requested. Plaintiffs do
not show how the bank statements are related to RAAM’s management of Howard’s
assets (nos. 2, 9), are records of payment from Howard or his assets (no. 44),
or are related to Howard, RSH, or the Trust’s bank accounts (no. 51). Thus, the
cited bank records did not need to be produced.
 
Category Identification
 
Plaintiffs argue that the Responding
Parties have failed to identify which of the 162,000 plus documents are
responsive to a specific request as required by Code of Civil Procedure section
2031.280. Section 2031.280 pertains only to requests for production of
documents between parties. Code of Civil Procedure section 2020.430 and Evidence
Code sections 1560-1561 define the custodian’s duties for business records
subpoenas to third parties. There is no authority supporting Plaintiffs’
position that the Responding Parties are required to identify the categories to
which each document is responsive.
 
Affidavit
 
Plaintiffs also take issue with the
custodian of records affidavit. On December 18, 2023, RAAM provided a custodian
of records affidavit from Joseph Duerr stating under penalty of perjury that
all responsive documents in its possession, custody or control had been
produced. (Ex. 4.) Plaintiffs further contend that the Responding Parties only
submitted a single affidavit,  authenticating the documents bates-stamped
RAAM000001 to RAAM035978. This leaves unverified numerous documents produced
pursuant to the Subpoena and court order (RAAM035980-RAAM092795). RAAM also
produced non-bates-stamped documents, which remain unverified. Plaintiffs complain
that the affidavit is false and perjurious because the Responding Parties had
not produced all of the documents responsive to the subpoena in its possession
custody or control, since an additional 57,000 pages of documents and 1,279
pages of native documents were later produced without metadata.  
 
The Court agrees that the Responding
Parties have not provided a code compliant declaration concerning the later-produced
documents. The Responding Parties have a statutory obligation to provide
such a code-compliant declaration. (CCP§§ 2020.430; Evid. Code §§ 1560-1561.) The
October 31, 2023, discovery order also required them to provide an “affidavit
regarding the produced records” which would necessarily require a declaration
for further production under the subpoena. Therefore, the Responding Parties must
provide code-compliant declaration(s) for each production.  
 
Forensic Computer Examination
 
The Responding Parties failure to
obey the October 31, 2023, court order would not justify a forensic examination
of all their electronic devices, both personal and business. As the
Responding Parties observe, this would unreasonably impinge on their right to
privacy. The party asserting a privacy right must establish a legally protected
privacy interest, an objectively reasonable expectation of privacy in the given
circumstances, and a threatened intrusion that is serious. (Hill v. National
Collegiate Athletic Assn. (1994) 7 Cal.4th 1, 35-37.) Courts must
carefully balance a right of privacy against the interest in having just
litigation. (Pioneer Electronics (USA), Inc. v. Superior Court (2007) 40
Cal.4th 360, 371.) If there is a serious invasion of a constitutional right to
privacy, the party seeking the evidence must establish that the information
sought is not only essential and directly relevant, but also that this
information could not be discovered through less intrusive means. (Williams
v. Superior Court (2017) 3 Cal.5th 531, 552.) Notably, the corporate right
to privacy is a lesser right than that held by human beings and is not
considered a fundamental right. (Ameri-Medical Corp. v. Workers' Comp.
Appeals Board (1996) 42 Cal.App.4th 1260, 1287-1288.) Because the
corporate privacy right is not constitutionally protected, the issue presented
in determining whether the requests for production infringe that right is
resolved by a balancing test. (Hecht, Solberg, Robinson, Goldberg &
Bagley v. Superior Court (2006) 137 Cal.App.4th 579, 594-595.) The
discovery's relevance to the subject matter of the pending dispute and whether
the discovery appears reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible
evidence is balanced against the corporate right of privacy. (Ibid.) 
 
Plaintiffs argue that a forensic
examination is appropriate so that Plaintiffs may conduct a “proper search for
records responsive to all 51 categories of documents.” (Notice of Motion.) Plaintiffs’
authorities provide little guidance on the issue. (R.S. Creative, Inc. v.
Creative Cotton, Ltd. (1999) 75 Cal.App.4th 486, 487-488 [“The trial court
imposed terminating sanctions for misuse of discovery and violations of court
orders after it became evident that plaintiffs had incorporated a forged
contract in their complaint, had refused to allow the completion of a
principal's deposition after the forgery came to light, and had destroyed evidence.
We recount the activities of the sanctioned party in detail to illustrate a
kind of discovery abuse that is intolerable in civil litigation.”]; TBG Ins.
Servs. Corp. v. Superior Ct., (2002) 96 Cal. App. 4th 443 [plaintiff had no
reasonable expectation of privacy in information stored in a work-from-home
computer, where plaintiff had notice of policy and have written consent].) This
action does not resemble any of the cited cases wherein courts permitted a
forensic computer examination. Also, Plaintiffs’ requested search would invade the
personal finances for individuals such as the Duerrs, including sensitive,
confidential information of third parties unrelated to RAAM or this dispute.
Plaintiffs only offer the speculation that the Responding Parties have the
native format documents but are not producing the documents. The discovery
misconduct discussed above does not bare any relationship to, or create the
need for, a forensic examination of all the Responding Parties’ electronic
devices.
 
            The Court,
however, does order a more limited forensic examination.  As stated, the Court will permit a forensic
examination of RAAM work devices and storage for the three property management
agreements and the July 2015, certificate. 
In addition, the Court would permit an examination for employment and
compensation agreements for Strum, an amendment to Public Agreement No. 2, and all
emails responsive to the discovery requests from the rhoward@raamcorp.com email account.  The Court orders Plaintiffs and Defendant to
split the cost of this limited examination. 

 
            The parties are ordered to meet and confer
regarding (1) the examination protocol and (2) a list of search terms that are
consistent with the categories identified by the Court.  If unable to come to an agreement, the
parties shall participate in the IDC process.
 
Monetary Sanctions
 
Considering the mixed success on
the merits of the motion, the Court is not inclined to grant full monetary
sanctions. Plaintiffs have shown that the Responding Parties did not produce
certain responsive documents which they were required to do under the court’s
order, though the Court cannot characterize this failure as willful. Further, the
Responding Parties failed to comply with the order to provide a code-compliant
custodian declaration for the production of documents under the subject
subpoena. Therefore, the Court will grant partial monetary sanctions in the
reduced amount of $2,500, against RAAM and their counsel, jointly and severally,
payable within 30 days.
 
The Court still requires the Responding
Parties to serve a code-complaint custodian declaration for production of
documents under the subpoena within 10 days.