  Case Number:  22SMCV02196    Hearing Date:   September 5, 2024    Dept:  M CASE NAME:             MB v. DDZ
CASE NO.:                   22SMCV02196
MOTION:                     Petition/Motion to Compel
Arbitration 
HEARING DATE:   9/5/2024
  
LEGAL STANDARD 
 
Under California and federal law, public policy favors
arbitration as an efficient and less expensive means of resolving private
disputes. (Moncharsh v. Heily & Blase (1992) 3 Cal.4th 1,
8-9; AT&T Mobility LLC v. Concepcion (2011) 563 U.S. 333, 339.)
Accordingly, whether an agreement is governed by the California Arbitration Act
(“CAA”) or the Federal Arbitration Act (“FAA”), courts resolve doubts about an
arbitration agreement’s scope in favor of arbitration.  (Moncharsh,
supra, 3 Cal.4th at 9; Comedy Club, Inc. v. Improv West Assocs. (9th
Cir. 2009) 553 F.3d 1277, 1284; see also Engalla v. Permanente Med. Grp., Inc.
(1997) 15 Cal.4th 951, 971-972 [“California law incorporates many of the basic
policy objectives contained in the Federal Arbitration Act, including a
presumption in favor of arbitrability [citation] and a requirement that an
arbitration agreement must be enforced on the basis of state law standards that
apply to contracts in general”].) “[U]nder both the FAA and California law,
‘arbitration agreements are valid, irrevocable, and enforceable, save upon such
grounds as exist at law or in equity for the revocation of any contract.’ ” (Higgins
v. Superior Crout (2006) 140 Cal.App.4th 1238, 1247.) 
 
“Code of Civil Procedure section 1281.2 requires a trial
court to grant a petition to compel arbitration if the court determines that an
agreement to arbitrate the controversy exists.” (Avery v. Integrated
Healthcare Holdings, Inc. (2013) 218 Cal.App.4th 50, 59, quotations
omitted.) Accordingly, “when presented with a petition to compel arbitration,
the court’s first task is to determine whether the parties have in fact agreed
to arbitrate the dispute.”  (Ibid.) A petition to compel
arbitration is in essence a suit in equity to compel specific performance of a
contract. (Id. at 71.) As with any other specific performance claim, “a
party seeking to enforce an arbitration agreement must show the agreement’s
terms are sufficiently definite to enable the court to know what it is to
enforce.” (Ibid. [internal citations omitted].) “Only the valid
and binding agreement of the parties, including all material terms well-defined
and clearly expressed, may be ordered specifically performed.” (Ibid.)
An arbitration agreement “must be so interpreted as to give effect to the
mutual intention of the parties as it existed at the time of contracting, so
far as the same is ascertainable and lawful.” (Civ. Code, § 1636.) The language
of the contract governs its interpretation if it is clear and explicit. (Civ.
Code, § 1368.) If uncertainty exists, “the language of a contract should be
interpreted most strongly against the party who caused the uncertainty to
exist.” (Civ. Code, § 1654.)  
 
The party seeking to compel arbitration bears the burden of
proving the existence of a valid arbitration agreement by the preponderance of
the evidence. (Engalla v. Permanente Medical Group, Inc. (1997) 15
Cal.4th 951, 972.) It would then be plaintiff’s burden, in opposing the motion,
to prove by a preponderance of the evidence any fact necessary to her
opposition. (See Ibid.) “In these summary proceedings, the trial court
sits as a trier of fact, weighing all the affidavits, declarations, and other
documentary evidence, as well as oral testimony received at the court’s
discretion, to reach a final determination.” (Ibid.) 
 
ANALYSIS 
            Defendant
DDZ moves to compel binding arbitration of the claims in Plaintiff’s operative
complaint (“SAC”) and stay further proceedings with the court to retain jurisdiction
to confirm the arbitration award.
 
As with any contract, mutual assent or consent is necessary
for the formation of a valid arbitration agreement. (Civ. Code, §§ 1550, 1565.)
“Consent is not mutual, unless the parties all agree upon the same thing in the
same sense.” (Civ. Code, § 1580.) The moving party bears the initial burden of
showing the existence of an agreement to arbitrate by a preponderance of the
evidence. (Mitri v. Arnel Mgmt. Co. (2007) 157 Cal.App.4th 1164, 1169
[“Because the existence of the agreement is a statutory prerequisite to
granting the petition, the petitioner bears the burden of proving its existence
by a preponderance of the evidence.”].)   
 
Defendants assert that the instant claims are required to
go to arbitration because Plaintiff signed an arbitration agreement covering
their claims.  The subject Surrogacy Agreement
provides, in relevant part:
28. DISPUTE
RESOLUTION/ARBITRATION [¶] c. In the event mediation does not resolve the
dispute between the Parties, the Parties agree that all claims, disputes, or
controversies arising out of or in relation to the performance, interpretation,
application or enforcement of this Agreement… shall be settled in binding
arbitration in Los Angeles County or Orange County, California…with California
substantive law and the California Arbitration Act applied, and in accordance
with the then-current rules of the American Arbitration Association, and
judgment upon the award entered by the arbitrator(s) may be entered in any
Court having jurisdiction thereto. Costs of arbitration, including reasonable
attorneys' fees incurred by the prevailing Party in Court enforcement of the
arbitration award after it is rendered by the arbitrator(s), must be paid to
the prevailing Party by the Party designated by the Arbitrator(s) or Court.
Said arbitration shall be conducted in the English language and the award
rendered in United States dollars.
(Decl., Exhibit A: Surrogacy
Agreement [emphasis added].)
The SAC alleges three causes of action, including breach of contract,
disclosure of private facts, and injunctive relief, all of which arise from the
performance, interpretation, or application
of the Surrogacy Agreement. Defendant meets its
burden to demonstrate the existence of an arbitration agreement between the
parties that covers Plaintiff’s claims.  Plaintiff
did not file an opposition to the motion.
 
Accordingly, the unopposed motion is GRANTED. The Court
orders Plaintiff’s claims to arbitration, as discussed above. The entire action
is STAYED pending the completion of the arbitration. (CCP § 1281.4.)  The Court sets a status conference re arbitration for July 10,
2025, at 8:30 a.m.