 Case Number:  23SMCV01487    Hearing Date:   September 5, 2024    Dept:  M CASE NAME:           Hernandez v. Los
Angeles Country Club 
CASE NO.:                23SMCV01487
MOTION:                  Motion
for Leave to Amend to File Cross-Complaint
HEARING DATE:   9/5/2024

 
Legal
Standard
 
Leave of court is required to
file a compulsory cross-complaint when it is not filed before or at the same
time as the answer. (CCP § 428.50(a), (c).) Where a party seeks leave to file a
compulsory cross-complaint, whether due to oversight, inadvertence, mistake,
neglect, or other cause, leave must be granted anytime during the course of
litigation so long as the defendant acted in good faith. (CCP § 426.50.) Leave
should be liberally granted to avoid forfeiture of causes of action.
(Ibid.)  
 
“Factors such as oversight,
inadvertence, neglect, mistake or other cause, are insufficient grounds to deny
the motion unless accompanied by bad faith.” (Silver Organizations Ltd. v.
Frank¿(1990) 217 Cal.App.3d 94, 99.) “[The] principle of liberality
requires that a strong showing of bad faith be made in order to support a
denial of the right to file a cross-complaint under this section.” (Foot's
Transfer & Storage Co. v. Superior Court (1980) 114 Cal.App.3d 897,
902.) To establish bad faith, the opposing party must show “actual or
constructive fraud, or a design to mislead or deceive another, or a neglect or
refusal to fulfill some duty or some contractual obligation, not prompted by an
honest mistake ..., but by some interested or sinister motive[,] ... not simply
bad judgment or negligence, but rather ... the conscious doing of a wrong because
of dishonest purpose or moral obliquity; ... [bad faith] contemplates a state
of mind affirmatively operating with furtive design or ill will.” (Id.
at 100.) While the good faith requirement gives courts a “modicum of
discretion,” the law strongly favors granting leave. (Sidney v. Superior
Court (1988) 198 Cal.App.3d 710, 718.) 
 
Analysis
 

Defendant moves for leave to file a
cross-complaint against Living Colors Inc. Defendant presents a copy of their
proposed Cross-Complaint for indemnity. (Bates Decl., Ex. “A”.) This case arises
from an alleged slip-and-fall. Plaintiff Felipe Hernandez alleges that the fall
occurred while he was working for Living Colors Inc., a subcontractor of Matt
Construction, a general contractor who was performing work at the Subject
Property. Recently, on May 23, 2024, Everest Premier Insurance Company,
administered by American Claims Management, workers’ compensation carrier for Living
Colors, filed a lien in the present action. Counsel provides that new
information came to light during the exchange of discovery, which highlighted a
need for Defendants to file a cross-complaint against Living Colors in order to
protect their interests in this litigation. (Bates Decl., ¶ 5.) The Court
observes no bad faith on the record. Accordingly, the motion for leave is
GRANTED.
 
Defendant to file the proposed
cross-complaint within five days.
 
In light of the cross-complaint,
the Court also vacates the November 18, 2024, trial date and sets a trial
setting conference for November 18, 2024, at 8:30 a.m.  All dates will run from the new trial date.  The October 1, 2024, motion for new trial is
taken off calendar as moot.