  Case Number:  22BBCV00448    Hearing Date:   December 13, 2023    Dept:  P  
 
 
 
 
 
 
SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES
NORTHEAST DISTRICT
 



YASAM LEGACY, LLC,
 
                                           
  Plaintiff,
vs.
 
PAPANICOLAOU
  ENTERPRISES, INC. dba NOHO DINER; and DOES 1 to 10, inclusive,
 
                                           
  Defendants.
 


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
  )
)
)
)
)
)


Case No.: 22BBCV00448
 
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER GRANTING MOTION FOR RECONSIDERATION
 
Date:   December
  13, 2023
Time:  8:30 a.m.
Dept.:  P



 
          I.        INTRODUCTION
          This motion arises out of a
commercial unlawful detainer action. Plaintiff
Yasam Legacy LLC (Yasam) alleged in its Complaint that Defendant Papanicolaou
Enterprises Inc. dba NoHo Diner remained in possession of 11329 Magnolia Blvd,
North Hollywood, CA 91601 (Subject Property) despite a 3-day notice to quit or
pay rent.
On
October 23, 2023, after a default in the terms of a negotiated settlement, the
Court denied Yasam’s Ex Parte Application to Enter Judgment pursuant to CCP
Section 664.6 and the associated UD stipulation, without prejudice.  Plaintiff Yasam filed this motion for reconsideration
on November 3, 2023.  Yasam argues that:
(1) emails exchanged between counsel for the parties indicate that the final
language was agreed to; and (2) technology issues caused two words to be
dropped off the final version of the UD Stipulation. 
          Defendant’s counsel filed a late opposition to Yasam’s
motion.  The Court has considered the
opposition:  but it fails to set forth
any relevant evidence or any persuasive basis to deny the motion.  The motion is therefore granted.[1]
 
II.       LEGAL
STANDARD 
Code
of Civil Procedure Section 1008 provides, in pertinent part: 
“(a) When an application for
an order has been made to a judge, or to a court, and refused in whole or in
part, or granted, or granted conditionally, or on terms, any party affected by
the order may, within 10 days after service upon the party of written notice of
entry of the order and based upon new or different facts, circumstances, or
law, make an application to the same judge or court that made the order, to
reconsider the matter and modify, amend, or revoke the prior order. The party
making the application shall state by affidavit what application was made
before, when and to what judge, what order or decisions were made, and what new
or different facts, circumstances, or law are claimed to be shown. 
 
(b) A party who originally
made an application for an order which was refused in whole or in part, or
granted conditionally or on terms, may make a subsequent application for the
same order upon new or different facts, circumstances, or law, in which case it
shall be shown by affidavit what application was made before, when and to what
judge, what order or decisions were made, and what new or different facts
circumstances, or law are claimed to be shown. For a failure to comply with
this subdivision, any order made on a subsequent application may be revoked or
set aside on an ex parte motion. 
… 
(e) This section specifies
the court’s jurisdiction with regard to applications for reconsideration of its
orders and renewals of previous motions, and applies to all applications to
reconsider any order of a judge or court, or for the renewal of a previous
motion, whether the order deciding the previous matter or motion is interim or
final. No application to reconsider any order or for the renewal of a previous
motion may be considered by any judge or court unless made according to this
section.” (CCP § 1008(a), (b), (e).) 
A
motion for reconsideration under § 1008 requires that the moving party present
new or different facts that were not previously considered by the Court. 
(New York Times Co. v. Superior Court (2005) 135 Cal.App.4th 206,
212-13.)  However, the burden under CCP Section 1008 “is comparable to
that of a party seeking a new trial on the ground of newly discovered evidence:
the information must be such that the moving party could not, with reasonable
diligence, have discovered or produced it at the trial.”  (Ibid.; Even
Zohar Construction & Remodeling, Inc. v. Bellaire Townhouses, LLC
(2015) 61 Cal.4th 830, 833 [finding that § 1008 imposes the special requirement
of having to not only show new or different facts, circumstances, or law, but
also to “show diligence with a satisfactory explanation for not presenting the
new or different information earlier…”].)  Reconsideration cannot be
granted based on claims that the court misinterpreted the law in its initial
ruling because this is not a "new" or "different" matter. 
(Gilberd v. AC Transit (1995) 32 Cal.App.4th 1494, 1500.) 
          
III.     ANALYSIS
A.
New Facts Before the Court
Here,
Yasam urges that the final language of the stipulation and settlement agreement
was agreed to by both parties. Yasam additionally urges that the missing words
“by” and “paid” in Section 6 of the UD Stipulation were inadvertently dropped from
the final version due to technology errors. (Motion, p. 7: 11-17.)
Specifically, Yasam urges that the final version was a non-editable pdf, which failed
to catch two words when it was finalized and transmitted electronically.
(Motion, p. 7: 20-24.)
In
support, Yasam provides the emails between its counsel of record and former counsel
of record for Defendants NoHo Diner et al. Yasam also provides the declaration
of its attorney, Niv Davidovich, who declares that the emails are true and
correct copies of the emails exchanged between himself and former counsel for
Defendants, Daniel J. Bramzon. (Davidovich Declaration ¶ 4, referencing Exh. D.)
Bramzon’s March 23, 2023 email provides “Here is the revised UD stip. I cannot
erase the date in #5.” (Davidovich Decl., Exh. D.) Davidovich replied and
approved the stipulation. (Davidovich Dec., ¶ 5.) Davidovich additionally
declares that the two missing words in the UD Stipulation failed to carry over
to the final version.
          Yasam also provides the declaration of Isaac Guzman, an attorney
who appeared at the hearing on the ex parte application. (Guzman Declaration.) Guzman
declares that he emailed Defendant’s current counsel, Adam C. Fullman, after
the ex parte was denied. (Guzman Decl. ¶¶ 5,6, 7.) Exhibit C to the Guzman
Declaration is an email exchange between Guzman and Fullman.  Guzman attached the email correspondence between
Davidovich and Bramzon, where both parties agreed to the final language of the
stipulation.  Fullman responded that he
had been instructed by his client to require Plaintiff to proceed with a motion
seeking further relief.
          B. CCP Section 664.6
          Secondly, Yasam argues that the motion for reconsideration
should be granted as the parties did agree to all material terms of the
settlement. Under CCP Section 664.6, a settlement is only enforceable if
parties have agreed to all material terms, as shown by an objective test. (See Hines
v. Lukes (2008) 167 Cal.App.4th 1174, 1182; Weddington Productions Inc.
v. Flick (1998) 60 Cal.App.4th 793, 811.) Here, the October 23 emails
between Davidovich and Bramzon establish objectively that this was the case.
The declaration of Davidovich further supports this.
          C. CCP Section 473(b)
“The
court may, upon any terms as may be just, relieve a party or his or her legal
representative from a judgment, dismissal, or order or other proceeding taken
against him or her through his or her mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or
excusable neglect.” (CCP § 473(b). 
Lastly,
Yasam urges that that the motion for reconsideration should be granted under
473(b) due to the inadvertence of counsel. In support, Yasam urges that Mr. Davidovich
inadvertently agreed, in the October 23 emails, to the final UD stipulation not
realizing two words were dropped off in finalizing the document. (Motion, p. 12:20-21.)
The Court is persuaded that this is a second basis for granting relief.
           
IV.     CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
          The motion for reconsideration is granted. 
Yasam
is ordered to give notice of ruling.
 
          
          
Dated:                                                              _______________________________
                                                                              MARGARET L. OLDENDORF
                                                                       JUDGE
OF THE SUPERIOR COURT
 
 


