 Case Number:  23AHCV00785    Hearing Date:   December 13, 2023    Dept:  P  
 
 
 
 
 
 
SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES
NORTHEAST DISTRICT
 



ESPOIR & AMOUR LLC
 
                                           
  Plaintiff,
 
vs.
 
MISC
  GROUP LLC, A CORPORATION; YE WU, an individual,
 

                                           
  Defendants.



)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


Case No.: 23AHCV00785
 
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER SUSTAINING DEMURRER WITH LEAVE TO AMEND 
 
Date:   December
  13, 2023
Time:  8:30 a.m.
Dept.:  P



 
          I.        INTRODUCTION
          In this action, Plaintiff Espoir & Amour LLC (Espoir
& Amour) alleges that Defendants Misc Group LLC and its owner, Defendant Ye
Wu (collectively Defendants) breached a contract between them, and committed
related civil wrongs. 
Espoir
& Amour allegedly contracted with Defendants to manage the marketing and
general business of Espoir & Amour’s Amazon storefront. The Complaint alleges
that Defendants breached the contract by improperly managing Plaintiff’s Amazon
business.   The Complaint contains four causes of action: breach
of contract, breach of the implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing,
unfair business practices in violation of Business and Professions Code Section
17200, and fraud.
          Defendants filed the instant demurrer on August 14, 2023. Plaintiffs
filed an opposition on November 28, 2023. Defendants filed a reply on December
6, 2023.
For
the reasons that follow, the demurrer is sustained with leave to amend.
 
II.      DEMURRER
A. Legal Standard
Code
Civ. Proc. Section 430.10(e) provides for a demurrer on the basis that a
complaint fails to state a cause of action. (CCP § 430.10(e).) A demurrer tests
the legal sufficiency of a complaint. (Donabedian
v. Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994.)  
CCP
Section 430.10(g) provides for a demurrer where “[i]n an action founded upon a
contract, it cannot be ascertained from the pleading whether the contract is
written, is oral or is implied by conduct.” (CCP § 430.10(g).)
          B. The Meet and Confer Requirement Is Satisfied
          The Declaration of Andrew R. Nelson is offered in support
of defense counsel’s compliance with Code Civ. Proc. Section 430.41. Nelson
declares that he met and conferred with Plaintiff’s Counsel by telephone on
July 27, 2023. He further declares that a resolution was not reached. (Nelson
Declaration ¶ 2.) Consequently, the meet and confer requirement has been met. 
          Espoir & Amour counsel asserts, without any evidentiary
support, that a meet and confer was never held. (Opposition, p. 3: 8-9.) The
Declarations of Defendant’s counsel  clearly
disproves this assertion. 
          C. Timeliness of the Demurrer
          Espoir &
Amour argues (again without any evidentiary support) that the demurrer was
untimely, as it was filed more than  30 days
after service of the Complaint. (Opposition, p. 4: 8-9, referencing CCP §
430.40(a).) 
Defendants
have presented evidence that the parties agreed to extend the time in which to “respond”
to the Complaint (Reply, p.2: 23-28.) Defendants’ evidence disproves Plaintiff’s
claim on this point as well.  The Court thus
declines to rule that this demurrer is untimely. 
D.
Demurrer to the First Cause of Action is Sustained
          Defendants demur to the first cause of action for breach of
contract on the basis that the cause of action fails to state facts sufficient
to state a cause of action, and that the Complaint fails to allege whether the
contract is oral, written or implied by conduct. 
          The elements of a claim for breach of contract are “(1) the
existence of the contract, (2) plaintiff's performance or excuse for
nonperformance, (3) defendant's breach, and (4) the resulting damages to the
plaintiff." (Oasis West Realty, LLC v. Goldman (2011) 51 Cal.4th
811, 821.) Here, the Complaint alleges that a contract exists between the
parties (Complaint ¶ 2); that plaintiffs fully performed (Complaint ¶ 3); that defendants
breached the contract by alleged improper management, self-dealing, and the diversion
of business (Complaint ¶¶ 4-6); and that plaintiff was harmed as a result
(Complaint ¶ 7.) 
Despite
these allegations, it is unclear what Defendants’ obligations were under the
alleged agreement(s). Plaintiff urges that Defendants breached the agreement(s)
by improperly managing the Amazon business, committing self-dealing by paying themselves
 first, and using alleged trade secrets
to divert business.  But Plaintiff has
not adequately alleged the obligations that support a finding that this conduct
constitutes a breach thereof.  Plaintiff’s
opposition does not resolve this issue. 
Secondly,
Defendants argue that the demurrer should be sustained because it is unclear
whether the contract is oral or written, or implied by conduct. (Motion, p. 6: 19.)
If a written contract is at issue, it “may be pleaded either by its terms—set
out verbatim in the complaint or a copy of the contract attached to the
complaint and incorporated therein by reference—or by its legal effect.” (Heritage
Pacific Financial, LLC v. Monroy (2013) 215 Cal.App.4th 972, 993.) In this
case, the contract is not attached, nor are its terms recited verbatim in the Complaint.
To plead a contract by its legal effect, plaintiff must “allege the substance
of its relevant terms. This is more difficult, for it requires a careful
analysis of the instrument, comprehensiveness in statement, and avoidance of
legal conclusions.” (See Construction Protective
Services, Inc. v. TIG Specialty Ins. Co.
(2002) 29 Cal.4th 189, 198-99.) The Court agrees with Defendants that
this is another reason why the First Cause of Action is defective.  
Accordingly,
the demurrer is sustained as to the first cause of action per CCP Section
430.10(g). 
          E. Demurrer to the Second Cause of Action is Sustained
          A claim for
breach of the covenant of good faith and fair dealing first requires that there
be a valid contract. (Carma Developers (Cal.), Inc. v. Marathon Development
California, Inc. (1992) 2 Cal.4th 342, 3733.)
          Because the breach of contract claim is insufficient, the
demurrer is also properly sustained as to the second cause of action for breach
of the covenant of good faith and fair dealing, per CCP Section 430.10(g).. 
          F. Demurrer to the Third Cause of Action is Sustained 
          Defendants demur to the third cause of action for unfair
business practices on the basis that the cause of action fails to state
sufficient facts. In support, Defendants cite Linear Technology Corp. v.
Applied Materials, Inc. and In re Webkinz for the proposition that a
commercial dispute over parties’ economic relationship cannot, in and of
itself,  support a separate claim under
California Unfair Competition Law. (Linear Technology Corp. v. Applied
Materials, Inc. (2007) 152 Cal App. 4th 115, 135; In re Webkinz
(N.D. Cal. 2010) 695 F. Supp. 2d 987.) Linear Technologies stands for
the proposition that “where a UCL action is based on contracts not
involving either the public in general or individual consumers who are parties
to the contract, a corporate plaintiff may not rely on the UCL for the relief
it seeks.” (Linear Technology Corp., supra at 135.) 
Here,
the contract is apparently entered into between two corporate entities, Espoir
& Amour and Misc Group LLC. Defendants’ argument has merit.
          Accordingly, the demurrer to the third cause of action for
unfair business practices is sustained. 
 
          G. Demurrer to the Fourth Cause of Action is Sustained
          The policy of liberal construction does not apply to fraud
claims. Fraud actions are subject to “strict requirements of particularity in
pleading.  . . . Accordingly, the rule is everywhere followed that fraud
must be specifically pleaded. The effect of this rule is twofold: (a) General
pleading of the legal conclusion of ‘fraud’ is insufficient; the facts
constituting the fraud must be alleged. (b) Every element of the cause of
action for fraud must be alleged in the proper manner (i.e., factually and
specifically), and the policy of liberal construction of the pleadings ... will
not ordinarily be invoked to sustain a pleading defective in any material
respect.” (Committee on Children’s Television, Inc. v. General Foods Corp.
(1983) 35 Cal.3d 197, 216, superseded by statute on other grounds.) A
fraud cause of action must contain: “(1) a knowingly false representation by
the defendant; (2) an intent to deceive or induce reliance; (3) justifiable
reliance by the plaintiff; and (4) resulting damages.” (Service by
Medallion, Inc. v. Clorox Co. (1996) 44 Cal.App.4th 1807, 1816.) “This
particularity requirement necessitates pleading facts which show how, when,
where, to whom, and by what means the representations were tendered.” (Stansfield
v. Starkey (1990) 220 Cal.App.3d 59, 73, citations omitted.) 
This
required particularity is missing here. The fourth cause of action refers to a
“misrepresentation” by Defendant to Plaintiff, but does not indicate
how, when or where this misrepresentation allegedly occurred. Additionally, the
misrepresentation itself is not specifically alleged. 
Consequently,
the demurrer to the fourth cause of action is sustained. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
III.     CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
 Defendants’ demurrer is sustained as to all four causes of action
asserted against it in the Complaint. 
          Espoir & Amour LLC is given 20 days’ leave to file and
serve a First Amended Complaint.   
Defendants
are ordered to give notice of this ruling.  
 
 
          
Dated:                                                              _______________________________
                                                                              MARGARET L. OLDENDORF
                                                                       JUDGE
OF THE SUPERIOR COURT