  Case Number:  24VECV01283    Hearing Date:   December 16, 2024    Dept:  T MCGINNIS V LAYTIN
24VECV01283
[TENTATIVE] ORDER:  
Plaintiff Andrew McGinnis’ Motion
to Compel Further Reponses to Form Interrogatories – Geneal and Construction
and Request for Monetary Sanctions is DENIED.
Plaintiff Andrew McGinnis’ Motion
to Compel Further Reponses to Special Interrogatories is GRANTED.  Defendant Matan Laytin is ORDERED to serve
responses without objections to the Special Interrogatories within 20 days.  Plaintiff Andrew McGinnis is awarded
$1,462.50 in monetary sanctions against Defendant Matan Laytin and Davidovich
Stein Law Group LLP, jointly and severally, payable to the Client Trust Account
of ORLAND LAW GROUP, A Professional Corporation, 2155 Campus Drive, Suite 140, El
Segundo, CA 90245 by 1/16/2025 pursuant to CCP section 2023.010 for discovery
abuse without substantial justification.
Plaintiff Andrew McGinnis’ Motion
to Compel Further Reponses to Request for Production of Documents is
GRANTED.  Defendant Matan Laytin is
ORDERED to serve verified CODE COMPLIANT responses without objections to the
Request for Production of Documents and production of document within 20
days.  Plaintiff Andrew McGinnis is
awarded $1,462.50 in monetary sanctions against Defendant Matan Laytin and Davidovich
Stein Law Group LLP, jointly and severally, payable to the Client Trust Account
of ORLAND LAW GROUP, A Professional Corporation by 1/16/2025 pursuant to CCP
section 2023.010 for discovery abuse without substantial justification.
Defendant Matan Laytin’s Requests
for Monetary Sanctions as to the Form Interrogatories – General and
Construction; as to the Special Interrogatories; and as to the Request for
Production of Documents are DENIED.
Defendant Matan Laytin’s Request
for Judicial Notice is GRANTED but only as to the existence of the documents
and not as to any facts in dispute or hearsay.
Introduction 
Plaintiff Andrew McGinnis
(Plaintiff) separately moved for further responses to Form Interrogatories –
General and Construction (FI Motion), Special Interrogatories (SI Motion), and
Request for Production of Documents (RPD Motion) against Defendant Mata Laytin
(Defendant).  Each motion further
requested monetary sanctions against Defendant and his Counsel.  Each Motion requested $2,535.00.  
Each of Defendant’s Oppositions
also requested monetary sanctions.  The
opposition to the FI Motion requested $1,350.00 against Plaintiff and
Counsel.  The opposition to SI Motion
requested $2,250.00.  The opposition to
the RPD Motion requested $2, 250.00.
The Court noted that Plaintiff
filed a First Amended Complaint (FAC) on November 14, 2024 and the FAC is the
operative pleading as of this hearing date.
Procedure 
Despite Plaintiff’s contention
otherwise, Plaintiff failed to file/submit a separate statement with the FI
Motion.  A separate statement is required
to be filed in support of a motion to compel further responses.  (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1345.)  A separate statement is mandatory per the
California Rules of Court and the failure to submit it is grounds to deny a
motion to compel further responses.  For
Plaintiff’s failure to file a separate statement with the FI Motion, the FI
Motion is improper.
The FI Motion and Plaintiff’s
request for sanctions within it are DENIED. 

The SI Motion and RPD Motion
properly submitted separate statements with the motion.
Discussion 
As to the SI Motion and the RPD
Motion, a respondent has the burden to justify objections in response to a
motion filed to compel further responses. 
(Fairmont Insurance Co. v. Superior Court (2000) 22 Cal.4th 245, 255.)  Defendant objected to responding to the SI
and RPD based upon the fact that a demurrer was pending against the Complaint
and the contention that the allegations in the Complaint are subject to an
arbitration agreement.  These are not
proper objections to discovery demands. 
Because proper objections were not asserted, the responses were
improper.  In any event, the right to
discovery does not depend upon the status of the pleadings.  (Mattco Forge, Inc. v. Arthur Young & Co.
(1990) 223 Cal.App.3d 1429, 1436.)  There
being a demurrer pending against the Complaint and/or an arbitration agreement
may apply, at the time the discovery was served, is inconsequential.  The Court noted that there is no pending
motion to compel arbitration in this case. 
Discovery is not dependent upon issues that may arise in the
future.  Defendant failed to meet his
burden to justify these two objections.
Defendant further asserted
objections against the demands as being broad, unlimited as to time and scope,
unwarranted annoyance, embarrassment, oppression, undue burden and expense,
vagueness, ambiguity, and unintelligible. 
These same objections were asserted against every single SI and
RPD.  These are generalized and
boilerplate objections.  Where general
boilerplate objections were made, courts have authority to compel further
responses.  (Best Products, Inc. v.
Superior Court (2004) 119 Cal.App.4th 1181, 1189.)  Further, Defendant failed to justify any of
these boilerplate objections.  These
generalized objections are unpersuasive.
Defendant also objected that the
responses to the discovery demands are already in Plaintiff’s possession due to
the pending arbitration in the related case. 
However, discovery is allowed even if it is duplicative of other
information already obtained. (TBG Insurance Services Corp. v. Superior Court
(2002) 96 Cal.App.4th 443, 449; Carter v. Superior Court (1990) 218 Cal.App.3d
994, 997.)  Defendant’s objection is not
persuasive.
The motion to compel further
responses to SI and RPD is GRANTED.Sanctions are mandatory against
the non-prevailing party unless the one subject to the sanction acted with
substantial justification or other circumstances make the imposition of the
sanction unjust.  (Code Civ. Proc., secs.
2030.300(d) and 2031.310(h).)  As to
Plaintiff’s FI Motion, Plaintiff is not the prevailing party and not entitled
to monetary sanctions.  The request for sanctions in the
FI Motion are DENIED.  As to Plaintiff’s request for
sanctions in the SI Motion and RPD Motion, the Court finds that Defendant’s
responses/objections were not substantially justified and the Court did not
find any other circumstances making sanctions unjust.  The Court finds that the request for
$2,535.00 for each motion to be unreasonable and excessive.  Robert Ruhle further failed to present any
facts to justify his hourly rate of $450. 
The Court reduces Mr. Ruhle’s hourly rate to a reasonable
$325/hour.  Further, the assertion that
Counsels expended 5.5 hours for each motion is also seen as excessive.  The Court reduces the time spent for each
motion to 4.5 hours.  For each motion,
the Court finds $1,462.50 as a reasonable monetary sanction.Plaintiff’s request for monetary
sanctions is GRANTED as to the SI Motion and RPD Motion.  Plaintiff is awarded $1,462.50 for each
motion and the sanctions are levied against Defendant and Counsel.Defendant’s request for monetary
sanctions in opposing the FI Motion is unpersuasive because the substance of
Plaintiff’s arguments in the FI Motion showed substantial justification.  Plaintiff did not prevail due to the
procedural defect.  Defendant’s request for monetary
sanctions in opposing the FI Motion is DENIED. 
Defendant’s request for monetary
sanctions in opposing the SI Motion and RPD Motion is without merit because
Defendant is not the prevailing party.Defendant’s request for monetary
sanctions as to the SI Motion and RPD Motion is DENIED.
IT IS SO ORDERED, CLERK TO GIVE
NOTICE.