 Case Number:  23STCV03790    Hearing Date:   October 11, 2023    Dept:  47 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Theresa M. Traber, Department 47
 
 
HEARING DATE:     October 11, 2023                   TRIAL
DATE: NOT SET
                                                           
CASE:                         John Nguyen v. Shift Operations, LLC et
al.
 
CASE NO.:                 23STCV03790            
 
MOTION
TO COMPEL ARBITRATION

 
MOVING PARTY:               Defendants Shift Operations, LLC and American
Contractors Indemnity
 
RESPONDING PARTY(S): Plaintiff John
Nguyen
 
STATEMENT
OF MATERIAL FACTS AND/OR PROCEEDINGS:
            
            This is a lemon law action filed on February 21, 2023 against the vehicle
dealer and its assignee. Plaintiff purchased a 2016 Mercedes-Benz S-Class on
October 28, 2022. Plaintiff subsequently discovered the vehicle had severe
structural damage and engine leaks from a previous accident which was not
disclosed to him before purchasing the vehicle.
 
Defendants Shift Operations, LLC
and American Contractors Indemnity move to compel Plaintiff to binding
arbitration with the American Arbitration Association. 
            
TENTATIVE RULING:
 
Defendants’ Motion to Compel
Arbitration is CONTINUED to November 15, 2023, at 9:00 AM for rescheduling
purposes only. The parties are ordered to meet and confer regarding selection
of a mutually agreeable arbitrator affiliated with NAM or, alternatively,
preparation of a joint list of proposed arbitrators pursuant to Code of Civil
Procedure section 1281.6. 
 
            The
parties are further ordered to file either a joint statement apprising the
Court of the outcome of their efforts, or, alternatively, a joint list of
proposed arbitrators no later than November 9, 2023. 
 
//
 
DISCUSSION:
 
Defendants Shift Operations, LLC
and American Contractors Indemnity move to compel Plaintiff to binding
arbitration with the American Arbitration Association. 
 
Applicability of
the FAA
 
Defendant argues that the Federal Arbitration
Act governs the arbitration agreement at issue, and Plaintiffs do not appear to
argue otherwise. 
 
An arbitration clause is governed
by the FAA if the agreement is a contract “evidencing a transaction involving
commerce.” (9 U.S.C. § 2.) Courts “broadly construe” this phrase, because the
FAA “embodies Congress’ intent to provide for the enforcement of arbitration
agreements within the full reach of the Commerce Clause.” (Giuliano v. Inland Empire Pers., Inc. (2007) 149 Cal.App.4th 1276,
1286.)
 
Defendants have shown that the FAA
governs the agreement. It contains a clause stating that “Any arbitration under
this Arbitration Provision shall be governed under the Federal Arbitration Act”
(Declaration of Aaron Chu ISO Mot Exh. A p.6), and automobile sale (or lease)
contracts necessarily involve interstate commerce. (United States v. Oliver
(9th Cir. 1995) 60 F.3d 547, 550.) 
 
Accordingly, Defendants have met
their “burden to demonstrate FAA coverage by declarations and other evidence.”
(Hoover v. American Income Life Ins. Co.
(2012) 206 Cal.App.4th 1193, 1207.) 
 
Existence of Arbitration Agreement
             
Under California law, arbitration
agreements are valid, irrevocable, and enforceable, save upon such grounds as
exist at law or in equity for the revocation of any contract. (Blake v. Ecker (2001) 93 Cal.App.4th
728, 741 (overruled on other grounds by
Le Francois v. Goel (2005) 35 Cal.4th 1094).) A party petitioning to compel
arbitration has the burden of establishing the existence of a valid agreement
to arbitrate, and the party opposing the petition has the burden of proving, by
a preponderance of the evidence, any fact necessary to its defense. (Banner Entertainment, Inc. v. Superior Court
(1998) 62 Cal.App.4th 348, 356-57.) 
 
            Defendant
seeks to compel arbitration based on an arbitration provision in a retail
installment sales contract (“Agreement”), which provides:
 
Any claim or dispute, whether in
contract, tort, statute or otherwise (including the interpretation and scope of
this Arbitration Provision, and the arbitrability of the claim or dispute),
between you and us or our employees, agents, successors or assigns, which
arises out of or relates to your credit application, purchase or condition of
this vehicle, this contract or any resulting transaction or relationship
(including any such relationship with third parties who do not sign this
contract) shall, at your or our election, be resolved by neutral, binding
arbitration and not by a court action.
 
(Chu Decl. Exh. A. p.6.) 
The term, “You,” is defined as the Buyer, here Plaintiff, who has
contracted with Defendant Shift Operations LLC, described as “the Seller –
Creditor (sometimes ‘we’ or ‘us’ in this contract)” to buy the subject vehicle
with financing according to a payment schedule in the Agreement.  (Id., p. 1.)  
            
            The
signature of Plaintiff is visible on the proffered copy of the Agreement. (Chu
Decl. Exh. A p.1, 7) Above the signature line on page 7 is a statement, in all
capital letters, stating: 
 
“You agree to the terms of this
contract. You confirm that before you signed this contract, we gave it to you,
and you were free to take it and review it. You acknowledge that you have read
both sides of this contract, including the arbitration provision on the reverse
side, before signing below. You confirm that you received a completely
filled-in copy when you signed it.” 
 
(Chu Decl. Exh. A. p. 7.) 
 
This evidence shows that Plaintiff agreed to submit claims falling within
the terms of the arbitration provision of the Agreement to binding arbitration.
Plaintiff does not dispute that he signed the arbitration agreement. The Court
therefore finds that Defendants have demonstrated that Plaintiff entered into a
binding arbitration agreement with the moving Defendants.
 
Scope of
Arbitration Agreement
 
            The parties agree that Plaintiff’s
claims against these Defendants fall within the scope of the Arbitration
Agreement. 
 
Choice of Forum
 
            Although Plaintiff states in
opposition that he is amenable to arbitration of this dispute, Plaintiff
objects to Defendants’ choice of the American Arbitration Association as the
forum for arbitration. 
 
            Code of Civil Procedure section
1281.6 governs the choice of arbitrator when arbitration is sought:
 
If
the arbitration agreement provides a method of appointing an arbitrator, that
method shall be followed. If the arbitration agreement does not provide a
method for appointing an arbitrator, the parties to the agreement who seek
arbitration and against whom arbitration is sought may agree on a method of
appointing an arbitrator and that method shall be followed. In the absence of
an agreed method, or if the agreed method fails or for any reason cannot be
followed, or when an arbitrator appointed fails to act and his or her successor
has not been appointed, the court, on petition of a party to the arbitration
agreement, shall appoint the arbitrator.
 
When
a petition is made to the court to appoint a neutral arbitrator, the court
shall nominate five persons from lists of persons supplied jointly by the
parties to the arbitration or obtained from a governmental agency concerned
with arbitration or private disinterested association concerned with
arbitration. The parties to the agreement who seek arbitration and against whom
arbitration is sought may within five days of receipt of notice of the nominees
from the court jointly select the arbitrator whether or not the arbitrator is
among the nominees. If the parties fail to select an arbitrator within the
five-day period, the court shall appoint the arbitrator from the nominees.
 
(Code Civ. Proc. §
1281.6.) 
 
            Here, the Arbitration Agreement contains
a choice of forum provision which states: 
 
You or we may choose the American
Arbitration Association (www.adr.org) or National Arbitration and Mediation (www.namadr.com)
as the organization to conduct the arbitration. If you and we agree, you or we
may choose a different arbitration organization. You may get a copy of the
rules of an arbitration organization by contacting the organization or visiting
its website.
 
(Chu Decl. Exh. A. p. 6.) 
 
            Defendants
state in their initial moving papers that they seek to compel arbitration with
AAA, asserting a firm disapproval of any other forum, with specific reference
to JAMS, ADR Services, and JudicateWest, citing greater expense, slower pace,
and more burdensome discovery than under AAA rules. Defendants have also
produced a “Buyer Acknowledgment” signed by Plaintiff which states that “[if]
negotiations between the parties [to resolve a dispute] are not successful,
either party may initiate an arbitration, which shall be administered by the
American Arbitration Association (“AAA”) under the Consumer Arbitration Rules
(“AAA Rules”).” (Chu Decl. Exh. B. p. 5.) Defendants do not, however, contend
that the Buyer Acknowledgment supersedes the Arbitration Agreement. 
 
            In
opposition, Plaintiff objects to Defendant’s choice of AAA on the basis that requiring
Plaintiff to submit to AAA would effectively deny Plaintiff access to any
meaningful discovery and would be unconscionable. Plaintiff requests that the
Court instead permit Plaintiff to select an arbitration organization pursuant
to the terms of the agreement, or, alternatively, to have the Court select an
arbitrator pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 1281.6.
 
            Defendants,
in reply, appear to have relaxed their hardline position as presented in the moving
papers, and state that they are willing to consent to arbitration with National
Arbitration and Mediation or to arbitrator selection under either the FAA or
section 1281.6. Although Defendants argue that Plaintiff is not entitled to
impose arbitration with JAMS under the terms of the agreement, no such demand
is presented in any of Plaintiff’s materials filed in opposition. Plaintiff
merely appears to object to AAA as the sole choice for arbitration and seeks
alternatives pursuant to the Agreement and California law. As Defendants express
their consent to both options, the Court finds that, rather than ruling on the
motion, this matter would be more efficiently resolved by instructing the
parties to meet and confer regarding selection of a mutually agreeable
arbitrator. 
 
CONCLUSION: 
 
            Accordingly,
Defendants’ Motion to Compel Arbitration is CONTINUED to November 15, 2023, at
9:00 AM for rescheduling purposes only. The parties are ordered to meet and
confer regarding selection of a mutually agreeable arbitrator affiliated with
NAM or, alternatively, preparation of a joint list of proposed arbitrators
pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 1281.6. 
 
            The
parties are further ordered to file either a joint statement apprising the
Court of the outcome of their efforts, or, alternatively, a joint list of
proposed arbitrators no later than November 9, 2023. 
 
            Moving
Parties to give notice.
 
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
Dated: October 11, 2023                                 ___________________________________
                                                                                    Theresa
M. Traber
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court
 

            Any party may submit on the
tentative ruling by contacting the courtroom via email at Smcdept47@lacourt.org by no later than 4:00 p.m. the day
before the hearing. All interested parties must be copied on the email. It
should be noted that if you submit on a tentative ruling the court will still
conduct a hearing if any party appears. By submitting on the tentative you
have, in essence, waived your right to be present at the hearing, and you
should be aware that the court may not adopt the tentative, and may issue an
order which modifies the tentative ruling in whole or in part.
 