 Case Number:  BC550144    Hearing Date:   September 6, 2024    Dept:  E   Hearing Date: 09/06/2024       Case No: BC550144                                                                                         Trial Date:  12/09/2024 Case Name:     Arman  Yegiyants v. Hagop Bardakjian et al.   Motion to Compel Compliance with Deposition Subpoena   Moving  Party: 703 E. Angeleno, LLC, a Wyoming  limited liability company  Responding  Party: none   Proof of service timely  filed (CRC 3.1300(c)):   ok  Correct Address (CCP §§  1013, 1013(a)):    ok  16/+5 day lapse (CCP  §1005):  ok     RELIEF REQUESTED:   Defendants 703 E. Angeleno, LLC, 707 E. Angeleno, LLC,  Commercial Funding LLC, and Jamal Dawood (defendants) move for a court order  compelling non-party Antwerp Law Firm, P.C. (Antwerp) to Comply with  defendants’ Deposition Subpoena for Production of Business Records.    BACKGROUND:   On May 13, 2024, defendants served a subpoena upon Antwerp’s  custodian of records. (Ludwig Decl., ¶3, Ex. 1.) The subpoena records requested  were:    1.                   All DOCUMENTS REFLECTING, RELATING TO or CONCERNING  communications (e.g., letters, emails, text messages etc) with anyone other  than Fares Abbasi with respect to the attached agreement.  2.                   YOUR fee agreement with respect to the work YOU  performed with respect to the attached agreement.  3.                   ALL DOCUMENTS DOCUMENTS REFLECTING, RELATING TO or  CONCERNING payment for YOUR services with respect to the attached agreement.  4.                   All DOCUMENTS DOCUMENTS REFLECTING, RELATING TO or  CONCERNING 703 Angeleno LLC, a Wyoming, limited liability company and/or 707  Angeleno, LLC, a Wyoming limited liability company, other than DOCUMENTS which  reflect privileged communications with Fares Abbasi.   Defendants also served a notice to consumer or employee upon  Fares Abbasi regarding the requested records. (Ludwig Decl., ¶3, Ex. 1.)  Defendants now move to compel compliance with the deposition subpoena.    RECOMMENDED  RULING:   The Motion to Compel move for a court order compelling  non-party Antwerp Law Firm, P.C. to Comply with defendants’ Deposition Subpoena  for Production of Business Records is GRANTED in part. The request for  attorneys’ fees and/or sanctions against Antwerp is DENIED. In all other  respects the motion is GRANTED.   Antwerp Law Firm, P.C. is ordered to comply with the  Deposition Subpoena for Production of Business Records served by 703 E.  Angeleno, LLC, 707 E. Angeleno, LLC, Commercial Funding LLC, and Jamal Dawood  on May 13, 2024.    ANALYSIS:   Legal Standard   The Code of Civil Procedure section 1987.1 states that if a  “subpoena requires the attendance of a witness or the production of books,  documents, electronically stored information, or other things before a court,  or at the trial of an issue therein, or at the taking of a deposition, the  court, upon motion reasonably made by any person described in subdivision (b),  or upon the court's own motion after giving counsel notice and an opportunity  to be heard, may make an order quashing the subpoena entirely, modifying it, or  directing compliance with it upon those terms or conditions as the court shall  declare, including protective orders.” The deposition subpoena duce tecum for  the personal records of a consumer must also comply with Code of Civil  Procedure section 1985.3, which requires service of notice upon the consumer.    Discussion   The issue is whether there are grounds to compel compliance  with a deposition subpoena for records. There are. Here, defendants have properly  served a deposition subpoena on May 13, 2024. The subpoena required production of  the records on June 12, 2024. Defendants also timely served a notice to the  consumer Fares Abbasi regarding the request for records. The time for  responding to the subpoena has passed. Defendants attest that they have not  received a response.  Accordingly, the motion is granted in part. The request for  attorneys’ fees and/or sanctions against Antwerp is denied. Attorney’s fees  under Code of Civil Procedure section 1987.2 is discretionary and the court  does not find there has been a misuse of the discovery process at this time. In  all other respects the motion is granted.  

Hearing Date: 09/06/2024      

Case No: BC550144                                                                                       
Trial Date:  12/09/2024

Case Name:     Arman
Yegiyants v. Hagop Bardakjian et al.

 

Demurrer with Motion to Strike

 

Moving
Party:             Fares
Abbasi (Cross-Defendant)          

Responding
Party:       Jamal N. Dawood (Cross-Complainant)

 

Proof of service timely
filed (CRC 3.1300(c)):   ok 

Correct Address (CCP §§
1013, 1013(a)):    ok 

16/+5 day lapse (CCP
§1005):  ok  

 

RELIEF REQUESTED:

 

Cross-Defendant Fares Abbasi demurs to all causes of action and
requests the court strike all allegations regarding relief for damages in the minimum
amount of $1,500,000.00 plus interest.  

 

BACKGROUND:

 

On May 8, 2024, cross-complainants Jamal Dawood (Dawood)
filed suit against cross-defendant Fares Abbasi (“Abbasi”) for five claims for
breach of contract (COA 1), conspiracy to commit conversion (COA 2), conspiracy
to commit interference with prospective economic advantage (COA 3), slander of
title (COA 4), aiding and abetting the tort of another (COA 5).

 

Dawood alleges that Hagop Bardakjian (“Hagop”) owned a
promissory note (703 Note) signed by his brother and third-party borrower
Hratchia Bardakjian (“Hratchia”) for $2,000,000.00 secured by a deed of trust
against the real property located 703 E. Angeleno Ave., Burbank, CA (“703
Property”). 

 

Dawood alleges that Hagop owned a second promissory note (“707
Note”) also signed by Hratchia in the amount of $1,000,000.00 secured by a deed
of trust against real property located at 707 E. Angeleno Ave., Burbank, CA (“707
Property”). 

 

Dawood further alleges 703 and 707 Notes proceeds were used
towards the 703 and 707 Property (“Angeleno Properties”). In August 2018,
Hratchia was in arrears on all loan obligations and had failed to pay property
taxes for or develop the Angeleno Properties. As a result on August 9, 2018,
Dawood (on behalf of 703 E. Angeleno LLC (“703 LLC”) and 707 E. Angeleno LLC (“707
LLC”) (collectively “Angeleno LLCs”)) entered into an agreement with Hagop for
Hagop to sell the 703 and 707 Notes to the Angeleno LLCs (“Agreement”).
Pursuant to the Agreement the Angeleno LLCs would pay a portion of the
consideration immediately with the rest of the balance to be paid upon the
Angeleno LLCs’ successful foreclosure and/or other alternatives laid out in the
Agreement. In the event of litigation, the obligation to pay would be tolled. 

 

Dawood alleges that, in order to effectuate the performance
under the agreement, Dawood organized the Angeleno LLCs under the laws of the
state of Wyoming. Then third-party MMC Capital Fund (MMC)  and Dawood owned 100% of the membership interest
in the Angeleno LLCs. MMC and Dawood  entered
into written membership agreements (Membership Agreement) with them on the one
hand, and Abbasi on the other hand. 

 

Per the Membership Agreement, Abbasi became the conditional
sole member of the Angeleno LLCs, provided within 36 months he: (1) gave
$900,000.00 to MMC, (2) gave $600,000.00 to Dawood, (3) reimbursed all costs to
Dawood for the development of the real property located at 33842 County Line
Road Yucaipa CA (Yucaipa Property), and (4) quitclaimed a 25% interest in the
Yucaipa property to MMC and Dawood. 

 

Until Abassi complied with all four components of the
Membership Agreement, Abassi had no right to exercise his membership rights in
either of the Angeleno LLCs. 

 

In the event of a failure to tender consideration,
membership interest reverted back to MMC (60%) and Dawood (40%), effective
immediately. 

 

Dawood alleges that Abbasi failed to timely perform and the
interest in the Angeleno LLC reverted back to MMC and Dawood on September 10,
2021. 

 

MMC then allegedly assigned its rights to Dawood. 

 

However, in June 2022, Dawood alleges Abbasi sold his
alleged membership interest in the Angeleno LLCs to Hagop, interests which
Abbasi allegedly did not own and which he was prohibited from selling. 

 

Abassi demurs to all causes of action and moves to strike
the allegations requesting damages in the minimum amount of $1,500,000.000 plus
interest. 

 

TENTATIVE
RULING:

 

The demurrer is SUSTAINED in part and OVERRULED in part. 

 

The demurrer to the claims for Breach of Contract (COA 1), Conspiracy
to Commit Conversion (COA 2), and Slander (COA 4) is OVERRULED. The demurrer to
the claim for Conspiracy to Commit Interference with Prospective Economic
Advantage (COA 3) and Aiding and Abetting the Tort of Another (COA 5) is
sustained with twenty (20) days leave to amend.

 

The motion to strike is DENIED. 

 

ANALYSIS:

 

Legal Standard Demurrer

 

When
considering demurrers, courts read the allegations liberally and in context. (See
Schultz v. Harney (1994) 27 Cal.App.4th 1611, 1622 (Schultz), as
modified on denial of reh’g (Sept. 29, 1994).) The court “take[s] as true all
properly pleaded material facts, but not conclusions of fact or law asserted in
the complaint.” (Sheen v. Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. (2022) 12 Cal.5th 905,
916.) “The allegations of the pleading demurred to must be regarded as true.” (South
Shore Land Co. v. Peterson (1964) 266 Cal.App.2d 725, 732.) A “demurrer
does not, however, admit contentions, deductions or conclusions of fact or law
alleged in the pleading, or the construction of instruments pleaded, or facts
impossible in law.” (Ibid. [internal citations omitted].)

 

Discussion Demurrer

 


Breach of Contract


 

“To
establish a cause of action for breach of contract, the plaintiff must plead
and prove (1) the existence of the contract, (2) the plaintiff’s performance or
excuse for nonperformance, (3) the defendant’s breach, and (4) resulting
damages to the plaintiff.”  (Maxwell v. Dolezal (2014) 231
Cal.App.4th 93, 97-98 [internal citation omitted].)

 

Here, Dawood has alleged a breach-of-contract
claim. He alleges the parties entered into the Membership Agreement, which he
attaches to the FACC. 

 

Per the Membership Agreement,
Abbasi had a conditional membership which was non-transferable before the
consideration was paid in full. (FACC, Ex. 1, at p. 8 [“Buyer [Abassi]
additionally agrees not to attempt to sell nor transfer any company membership
interest prior to full payment and complete performance of all the obligations
set forth members.”.) 

 

Dawood alleges Abassi breached the
Membership agreement by failing to furnish all consideration and thereafter
selling a membership interest which had no right to, which has damaged Dawood
and his right to ownership of the Angeleno LLCs. This is sufficient at this
stage of the litigation. 

 

Abassi’s argument that the claim
is insufficient because it admits to lacking all facts is unconvincing. First,
allegations may be made on information and belief. 

 

Second, on a demurrer, the Court
takes the allegations which are made as true. 

 

And third, Abassi’s citation to Beckwith
v. Dahl (2012) 205 Cal.App.4th 1039, 1060 is unpersuasive. 

 

Abassi also argues that when
Dawood alleges his interest in the Angeleno LLC automatically reverted back to
him and MMC, Dawood admits that Abassi could not have sold an interest. This is
also unpersuasive. The allegations are not mutually exclusive. That Abassi did
not have an interest to sell, purported to have an interest, and thereafter did
try to sell that interest can all, it seems, be viable claims. 

 

Moreover, it makes sense that, in
falsely selling something Abassi did not “own,” Abassi potentially damaged the
rights of the alleged actual owner—Dawood. 

 

The Demurrer is overruled to this
cause of action is overruled. 

 


Conspiracy
     to Commit Conversion




 

Conversion is “the wrongful exercise of dominion over the
property of another.” (Lee v. Hanley, (2015) 61 Cal. 4th 1225
[quotations omitted].) To establish a claim for conversion, a plaintiff must
plead: “(1) the plaintiff’s ownership or right to possession of the property;
(2) the defendant’s conversion by a wrongful act or disposition of property
rights; and (3) damages.” (Ibid. [quotations omitted].) “The elements of a
civil conspiracy are the formation and operation of the conspiracy and damage
resulting to plaintiff from an act done in furtherance of the common design.” (Stueve
Bros. Farms, LLC v. Berger Khan (2013) 222 Cal.App.4th 303, 323)

 

Here, Dawood alleged he has possession over 100% of the
membership interest in each of the Angeleno LLCs. Abassi claimed to have an
interest in the Angeleno LLCs and thereafter entered into the fraudulent
agreement to purportedly sell a portion Dawood’s membership interest. 

 

Dawood does not allege that he was actually dispossessed of
his membership interest. 

 

Instead, he asserts that trying to sell the membership
interest constituted a type of dominion and control. The Court agrees this is
sufficiently alleged. “[A]ctual manual taking is not necessary; and an
unjustified assertion of title in the chattel may in and of itself constitute a
conversion.” (Beverly Finance Co. v. American Cas. Co. of Reading, Pa.
(1969) 273 Cal.App.2d 259, 264.)

 

With respect to the conspiracy allegations, Dawood alleges Abassi
conspired with the Bardakjians to convert Dawood’s membership interest by
entering into a fraudulent agreement to sell a portion of Dawood’s interest in
the Angeleno LLCs, which the Bardakjians purportedly purchased. (FACC, ¶3.) In
interfering with his ownership rights, Dawood alleges he was injured. This is
sufficient at this stage of the litigation. 

 

Though not raised by Abassi, the Court has some concern that
the membership interest may not fall within the scope of a conversion claim. Traditionally,
only tangible property can serve as the basis for a conversion claim, though
there appear to be some exceptions. (See Thrifty-Tel, Inc. v. Bezenek (1996) 46
Cal.App.4th 1559, 1565; see also Fremont Indemnity Co. v. Fremont General
Corp. (2007) 148 Cal.App.4th 97, 126 [finding “the misappropriation of
intangible net operating losses alleged here supports a cause of action for
conversion”].)

 

The Demurrer is overruled as to this cause of action. 

 


Conspiracy to Commit
     Interference with Prospective Economic Advantage


 

To state a claim for intentional interference with
prospective economic advantage, the plaintiff must show “(1) an economic
relationship between the plaintiff and some third party, with the probability
of future economic benefit to the plaintiff; (2) the defendant’s knowledge of
the relationship; (3) intentional acts on the part of the defendant designed to
disrupt the relationship; (4) actual disruption of the relationship; and (5)
economic harm to the plaintiff proximately caused by the acts of the defendant.”
(Marsh v. Anesthesia Services Medical Group, Inc. (2011) 200 Cal.App.4th
480, 504.) Plaintiff must have an existing relationship that is likely to
produce economic benefits in the future; an expectation that the relationship
itself will be created in the future is not sufficient. [citing Korea Supply
Company v. Lockheed Martin Corp. (2003) 29 Cal.4th 1134, 1153 (Korea
Supply)].)

 

Here, Dawood has not alleged the requisite relationship for
a claim. He alleges he “had various economic relationships that probably would
have resulted in an economic benefit to him as herein alleged. . .” (FACC, ¶35.
) Abassi was aware of these relationships and intended to disrupt the
relationship or knew that disruption of the relationship was certain or
substantially certain occur, and finally that those relationship were
disrupted.  

 

However, the only sufficiently specific relationship Dawood
alleges is his relationship with Arman Yegiyants. He alleges it was disrupted
when Yegiyants refused to consummate a settlement due to the cloud on Dawood’s
ownership interest of Angeleno LLCs.  The
failure to enter into a settlement is not an existing relationship that will
produce an economic benefit in the future. It is a one-time contract. Dawood
has failed to allege an existing relationship that would have produced economic
benefits in the future. 

 

In the opposition, Dawood refers the Court to several
paragraphs regarding relationships beyond the relationship with Yegiyants. The
only allegation about other relationships is paragraph 35, which the Court
previously quoted. This allegation is inadequate because it is merely an
allegation of the expectation of a relationship, and not an actual existing
relationship. 

 

However, contrary to Abassi’s argument, Dawood did allege
wrongful conduct. He incorporated by reference the conversion allegations which
support a claim premised upon independently wrongful conduct. (See Redfearn
v. Trader Joe’s Co. (2018) 20 Cal.App.5th 989, 1006, disapproved of on
other grounds in Ixchel Pharma, LLC v. Biogen, Inc (2020) 9 Cal.5th
1130, 1148 [“An act is independently wrongful if it
is unlawful, that is, if it is proscribed by some constitutional, statutory,
regulatory, common law, or other determinable legal standard, not merely the
product of an improper, but lawful purpose or motive.”].) 

 

Nevertheless, the Demurrer is sustained, with leave to
amend. 

 


Slander


 

Slander of title is a false and unprivileged disparagement,
oral or written, of the title to real or personal property, resulting in actual
pecuniary damage. (Gudger v. Manton (1943) 21 Cal.2d 537, 541,
disapproved on in other grounds in Albertson v. Raboff (1956) 46 Cal.2d
375.) The elements “have traditionally been held to be publication, falsity,
absence of privilege, and disparagement of another’s land which is relied upon
by a third party and which results in a pecuniary loss.” (Appel v. Burman
(1984) 159 Cal.App.3d 1209, 1214.) 

 

The statement is disparaging if it throws any doubt on the
ownership of the property. The disparagement may occur not only by complete
denial of the title, but also by claim of some interest in it. ((a) [§ 747]
Elements., 5 Witkin, Summary 11th Torts § 747 (2024).) All that is required is
the fictional malice or “malice implied in law” from the unprivileged character
of the act. (Gudger, supra, 21 Cal.2d at p. 543.)

 

Here, Dawood alleges that Abassi made statements to the
Bardakjians that 


Abassi had rights to sell
     his interest in the Angeleno LLCs, 
those statements were
     false, 
Abassi knew or should have
     known the claim of ownership would cause financial loss to Dawood, 
and reliance by others
     which caused damages. 


Specifically, Dawood alleges Yegiyants refused to consummate
a settlement due to the cloud on Dawood’s ownership interest of Angeleno LLCs. 

 

Abassi argues the allegations cannot support malice. The
malice necessary to allege a claim is simply an unprivileged assertion. Dawood
alleges Abassi claimed ownership in the Angeleno LLCs to Bardakjian and then
purportedly sold that interest to Bardakjian. This in turn created a cloud on
Dawood titles. This is an allegation of an unprivileged oral disparagement, i.e.,
the false ownership claim. 

 

Abassi also argues that the claim lacks specificity. There
is no added specificity requirement for a slander of title claim. Abassi’s
citation to Chrysler Credit Corp. v. Ostly (1974) 42 Cal.App.3d 663 appears
to be inapposite. It deals with proper notice before a taking of property. 

 

The Demurrer is overruled as to this cause of action. 

 


Aiding and Abetting the
     Tort of Another


 

“Liability may also be imposed on one who aids and abets the
commission of an intentional tort if the person (a) knows the other’s conduct
constitutes a breach of duty and gives substantial assistance or encouragement
to the other to so act or (b) gives substantial assistance to the other in
accomplishing a tortious result and the person’s own conduct, separately
considered, constitutes a breach of duty to the third person.” (Saunders v.
Superior Ct. (1994) 27 Cal.App.4th 832, 846.)

 

Here, Dawood has not alleged any breach of duty. Dawood
alleges Abassi aided and abetted the Bardakjians who were going to commit
various torts upon Dawood as set forth in a separate complaint. (FACC, ¶54.) This
is a legal conclusion that appears to be unsupported by any specific
allegations. 

 

Dawood does not made any specific allegations regarding the Bardakjians,
let alone allege that they breached a duty to Dawood. It is insufficient to
incorporate by reference claims from an entirely different complaint rather
than allege them here. 

 

Dawood does allege that Abassi aided the Bardakjians by entering
into a false purchase agreement for Abassi’s membership interest in the
Angeleno LLCs, which is sufficiently detailed as to the “substantial
assistance” component. However, he does not allege how this aid, separately
considered, constituted a breach of duty to the third person. 

 

Dawood’s argument that he may obtain attorney’s fees for defending
and action that is the direct result of another appears to have no bearing on
whether the alleged a claim for aiding and abetting. The question as to aiding
and abetting is the sufficiency of the allegations regarding the other’s
conduct and the assistance and/or encouragement. 

 

The Demurrer is sustained with leave to amend as to this
cause of action. 

 

Legal Standard Motion to Strike

 

The court may strike any “irrelevant, false, or improper
matter inserted in any pleading.” (Code Civ. Proc., §437.) Motions may also
target pleadings or parts of pleadings that are not filed or drawn in
conformity with applicable laws, rules, or orders. (Code Civ. Proc., §437
subd., (b).) The grounds for moving to strike must appear on the face of the
pleading or by way of judicial notice. (Code Civ. Proc., §437.) “When the
defect which justifies striking a complaint is capable of cure, the court
should allow leave to amend.” (Vaccaro v. Kaiman (1998) 63 Cal.App.4th
761, 768.)

 

Discussion Motion to Strike

 

Abassi requests the court strike all allegations regarding
relief for damages in the minimum amount of $1,500,000.00 plus interest (FACC,
¶¶ 28, 32, 41, 51, 57, and the prayer).  

 

Here, Abassi has not established that the material regarding
the minimum damages suffered is “irrelevant, false or improper.” Abassi argues
the allegations are unsubstantiated. However, he cites no statutory authority
or case law supporting that an allegation regarding the minimum damages must
have foundational facts for the amount sought or be subject to a motion to
strike. Abassi also incorrectly states that the allegations are not
sufficiently alleged because there is a heightened pleading standard for
punitive damages. However, each of these paragraphs refer to a claim for
compensatory damages, not punitive damages. In fact, Abassi has not moved to
strike the punitive damages allegations (FACC, ¶¶33, 42, 52, and 58).
Therefore, the court does not strike the requested paragraphs, the punitive
damages allegation, or any portion of the prayers for relief. 

 

The motion to strike is denied. 