 Case Number:  24NNCV00062    Hearing Date:   September 6, 2024    Dept:  E  
Hearing Date: 09/06/2024      
Case No: 24NNCV00062                                                                                           
Trial Date:  TBD
Case Name:     ANDREW
TREVINO vs UBER TECHNOLOGIES, et al.
 
MOTION TO COMPEL ARBITRATION
 
Moving
Party: UBER TECHNOLOGIES, INC Erroneously
Sued As Uber Technologies     
Responding
Party: Andrew Trevino
 
Proof of service timely
filed (CRC 3.1300(c)):   ok 
Correct Address (CCP §§
1013, 1013(a)):    ok 
16/+5 day lapse (CCP
§1005):  ok  
 
RELIEF REQUESTED:
 
Defendant Uber Technologies moves the court to compel this
case to arbitration. 
 
BACKGROUND:
 
On March 5, 2024, plaintiff Andrew Trevino filed suit
against defendants Uber Technologies Inc (erroneously sued as Uber Technologies;
hereinafter Uber) and Xiaozhu (last name unknown). Plaintiff filed a claim for motor
vehicle negligence and general negligence based on an accident which took place
on June 1, 2022. Plaintiff alleges he was a passenger in an Uber vehicle
operated by Xiaozhu. During the ride defendants made an unsafe “U” turn and
collided with another vehicle. The collision caused significant damage and
injury to plaintiff. 
 
Now Uber moves to compel this case to arbitration. Plaintiff
does not oppose the motion. 
 
RECOMMENDED
RULING:
 
The motion to compel arbitration filed by defendant Uber
Technologies Inc (erroneously sued as Uber Technologies) is GRANTED. The
arbitrator is ordered to decide the issue of arbitrability and proceed
accordingly. 
 
The case against defendant Uber Technologies Inc. is stayed
pending arbitration. 
 
ANALYSIS:
 
Legal Standard
 
“Code of Civil Procedure section 1281.2 requires a trial
court to grant a petition to compel arbitration ‘if the court determines that
an agreement to arbitrate the controversy exists.’” (Avery v. Integrated
Healthcare Holdings, Inc. (2013) 218 Cal.App.4th 50, 59.) Accordingly,
“when presented with a petition to compel arbitration, the court’s first task
is to determine whether the parties have in fact agreed to arbitrate the
dispute.” (Ibid.) 
 
The moving party bears the initial burden of “producing
prima facie evidence of a written agreement to arbitrate the controversy.” (Gamboa
v. Northeast Community Clinic (2021) 72 Cal.App.5th 158, 165.) The moving
party can meet its initial burden by attaching to the motion or petition a copy
of the arbitration agreement purporting to bear the opposing party’s signature,
or by setting forth the agreement’s provisions in the motion. (Ibid.; see also
Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1330 [‘The provisions must be stated verbatim or a
copy must be physically or electronically attached to the petition and
incorporated by reference.’].) 
 
“If the moving party meets its initial prima facie burden
and the opposing party disputes the agreement, then in the second step, the
opposing party bears the burden of producing evidence to challenge the
authenticity of the agreement. [Citation.] The opposing party can do this in
several ways. For example, the opposing party may testify under oath or declare
under penalty of perjury that the party never saw or does not remember seeing
the agreement, or that the party never signed or does not remember signing the
agreement. [Citations].” (Gamboa, supra, 72 Cal.App.5th at pp. 165-66.)
 
“If the opposing party meets its burden of producing
evidence, then in the third step, the moving party must establish with
admissible evidence a valid arbitration agreement between the parties. The
burden of proving the agreement by a preponderance of the evidence remains with
the moving party.” (Id., at p. 166.) 

 
Discussion
 
The first, and ultimately only, issue is whether Uber has
satisfied its initial burden of production. It has. 
 
Uber presents the declaration of Chenshan Yu a Data
Scientist. Yu’s declaration is comprehensive and sufficient to show an
agreement to arbitrate exists. He has the proper background to attest to
plaintiff’s use the Uber application and, thus, to the Terms of Use. 
 
Yu declares that he is familiar with Uber’s electronic
databases, records, and affiliated data. Based on his experience Yu explains that
to utilize the Uber application, users must register for an account and agree
to the Terms of Use. Yu declares that “at the time that a user registers for an
account and accepts the Terms then in effect, the data related to that user’s
registration and consent to the Terms is electronically transmitted to Uber and
stored in Uber’s databases. This information is stored in a secure and permission-based
manner and cannot be accessed by unauthorized users.” (Yu Decl., ¶6.) 
 
Yu declares he searched the Uber database for plaintiff by
searching plaintiff’s email address. This then led Yu to plaintiff’s unique
identifying number. Yu declares plaintiff signed-up on March 17, 2021 and in
doing so agreed to Uber’s Terms of Use. Yu also declares that on two subsequent
occasions—December 20, 2021, and January 1, 2023, respectively—plaintiff
consented to two updated terms of service. Plaintiff was prevented from
continuing to use the Uber application unless and until he consented to the
updated Terms of use. and thereafter continued to use the Uber application. Yu basis
this statement on plaintiff’s ride history which spans from 3/16/2021 through
6/10/2024. 
 
The terms in the effect at the time of the incident on June
1, 2022, are the December 16, 2021 terms which state that “[b]y agreeing to the
Terms, you agree that you are required to resolve any claim that you may have
against Uber on an individual basis in arbitration as set forth in this
Arbitration Agreement, and not as a class, collective, coordinated,
consolidated, mass and/or representative action.” (Yu Decl., Ex D. at PDF p.
28.)
 
The January 17, 2023, are similarly worded and provide as
follows: “By agreeing to these Terms, you agree that you are required to
resolve any claim that you may have against Uber on an individual basis in
arbitration as set forth in this Arbitration Agreement, and not as a class,
collective, coordinated, consolidated, mass and/or representative action.” (Yu
Decl., Ex D. at PDF p. 50.) The January17, 2023 terms provide that they are the
new binding agreement between the parties and that they apply “regardless
whether the dispute, claim, or controversy occurred or accrued before or after
the date you agreed to these Terms, and regardless whether you allege that the
personal injury was experienced by you or anyone else . . .” (Yu Decl., Ex. D
at p. 50.) Thus they arguably apply as well. 
 
In either case, Uber has met its prima facie burden
that an arbitration agreement exists between the parties. Plaintiff does not
oppose the motion. Accordingly, the motion is GRANTED. 
 
A brief note, Uber argues that all issues of arbitrability
are to be decided by the arbitrator. Plaintiff, having filed no opposition,
does not contest this. The January 2023 agreement provides a delegation clause
which states that “[o]nly an arbitrator, and not any federal, state, or local
court or agency, shall have exclusive authority to resolve any dispute arising
out of or relating to the interpretation, applicability, enforceability, or
formation of this Arbitration Agreement, including without limitation any claim
that all or any part of this Arbitration Agreement is void or voidable. . .”
(Yu Decl., Ex D. at PDF p. 54.) This is a clear delegation clause such that the
issue should properly be addressed by the arbitrator. (See Henry Schein, Inc.
v. Archer & White Sales, Inc. (2019) 139 S.Ct. 524, 527-28.)