 Case Number:  24LBCV00603    Hearing Date:   October 29, 2024    Dept:  S27 1.     Background
Facts
Plaintiff, Kim McMullen filed this
action against Defendant, Jafar Monazzam for damages arising out of the
parties’ landlord-tenant relationship. 
Plaintiff’s operative complaint is her original complaint, which she
filed on 3/28/24.  It includes causes of
action for breach of implied warranty of habitability, breach of implied
covenant of quiet enjoyment, nuisance, premises liability, negligence, breach
of contract, and IIED.    
 
2.     Motion
to Strike
a.    
Request for Relief
Plaintiff seeks punitive damages in
connection with her first, third, and eighth causes of action.  Defendant moves to strike the prayer for
punitive damages and related allegations. 

b.    
Meet and Confer
CCP §435.5(a) requires Counsel to
meet and confer telephonically or in person prior to proceeding with a motion
to strike.  Defense Counsel declares he
asked Plaintiff’s attorney to meet and confer by phone, and Plaintiff’s
attorney asked that the correspondence be written.  Defense Counsel then emailed a stipulation to
strike punitive damages.  Thereafter, the
attorneys spoke on the phone and did not come to an agreement.  
 
Plaintiff argues, in opposition to
the motion, that it should be denied due to failure to adequately meet and
confer.  This argument fails for three
reasons.  First, it appears Plaintiff was
the one who demanded meet and confer be by written correspondence; Plaintiff’s
attorney must not do so in the future. 
Second, Defense Counsel declares the parties ultimately did meet and
confer over the phone.  Third, Plaintiff
presents no authority permitting the Court to deny a motion to strike due to
failure to meet and confer, and §435.5(a)(4) makes clear that failure to meet
and confer “shall not be grounds to grant or deny the motion to strike.”  The Court asks Plaintiff not to make specious
arguments in the future.  
 
c.     Allegations
of the Complaint
Plaintiff alleges her apartment
unit suffered water intrusion from the upstairs unit on 12/04/22.  The leak occurred at four a.m., and Defendant
did not respond until 7:30 a.m., during which time significant amounts of water
intruded in the apartment.  Defendant
sopped up the water with towels, but did not otherwise act; this left residual
moisture and a musty odorous smell.  In
March of 2023, Defendant replaced the carpet with hardwood.  However, there remained ongoing water
intrusion issues, which were not addressed. 
Plaintiff’s bathroom ceiling has been bubbling since September of 2023,
but this has not been resolved.  
 
Additionally, in September of 2023,
Plaintiff called the gas company because she detected the odor of gas.  The gas company red-tagged the water heater
due to a leak.  
 
Plaintiff alleges she has suffered
from musty odors, health issues, and lack of hot water due to Defendant’s
acts.  
 
d.     Analysis

The parties largely cite cases
decided outside of the habitability context in the motion and opposition
papers.  Plaintiff argues Stoiber v.
Honeychuck (1980) 101 Cal.App.3d 903, 921 supports her claim for punitive damages,
and this is the only case cited by either party that was decided in the
habitability context, which has caused the Court to focus its attention on the
case.  
 
The refusal to repair toxic mold
after repeated notification, resulting in “severe physical injury and
discomfort” and the inability to occupy premises was sufficient in Burnett to
state a claim for IIED and an attendant claim for punitive damages.  Concerning the allegations of the complaint,
the Court of Appeals summarized, “Regarding the condition of the subject
premises, appellant alleged that: “On or about October 8, 1974, to the present,
numerous defective and dangerous conditions were in existence, including, but
not limited to leaking of sewage from the bathroom plumbing; defective and
dangerous electrical wiring; structural weaknesses in the walls; deteriorated
flooring; falling ceiling; leaking roof; dilapidated doors; broken windows; and
other unsafe and dangerous conditions. These defective conditions were
unknown to plaintiff at the time she moved in to the premises, but as she
continued to live on the premises, she became increasingly aware of them.”
(Italics added.)”
 
Plaintiff’s allegations herein
clearly do not rise to the level of those in Stoiber.  Indeed, it is unclear exactly which
conditions remain ongoing at this time. 
Plaintiff alleges, at ¶26, that the water heater was red-tagged, and at
¶27 that she suffered from a lack of hot water, but no duration is
alleged.  She alleges there were problems
with water intrusion into the carpet from December until March, when it was
replaced with hardwood, which would be frustrating but is not an objectively
unreasonable amount of time.  She alleges
there is bubbling in her ceiling, but it is not clear what, if any, harm the
ongoing bubbling in the ceiling is causing. 

 
e.    
Conclusion
The motion to strike is
granted.  Leave to amend is granted if
and only if Plaintiff can allege the conditions at issue persisted for an
unreasonable duration and were akin to those in Stoiber.  If she cannot do so, she must not pursue her
claim for punitive damages.  
 
If Plaintiff wishes to amend, she
must do so within twenty days.  Defendant
must file a responsive pleading within the statutory time thereafter.  If there is a pleading challenge, the parties
must meet and confer in good faith, in person or over the telephone, prior to
pursuing the challenge.  
 
If Plaintiff does not amend,
Defendant must file an answer to the original complaint, with the subject
allegations deemed stricken, within thirty days (ten days after the amended
complaint is due)
 
3.     Case
Management Conference and OSC
The parties are reminded that there
is a CMC and OSC on calendar concurrently with the hearing on the above motion
to strike.  The Court asks Counsel to
make arrangements to appear remotely at the CMC, OSC, and hearing on the motion.