 Case Number:  23LBCV01654    Hearing Date:   October 29, 2024    Dept:  S27 1.     Background
Facts
Plaintiff, Beach Front Properties,
LLC filed this action against Defendants, Waterford Property Company, LLC, Sean
Rawson, and John Crachman for breach of oral contract and related claims.  The crux of Plaintiff’s complaint is that
Plaintiff entered into an oral agreement with the entity defendant, by and
through the individual defendants, pursuant to which they would jointly invest
in a California Community Housing Agency initiative to provide affordable
housing to middle income residents.  
 
The parties cooperated between June
of 2000 and October of 2001 regarding the venture, communicating regularly,
identifying properties to include in the program, working through municipal
requirements, identifying bond financing, and setting up a $5 million line of
credit.  Defendants continued to make
representations to Plaintiff concerning the ongoing efforts to secure
properties into October of 2001, including assuring Plaintiff that the joint
venture was very close to securing the first property on behalf of the joint
venture.  However, Plaintiff later
learned that, at the time these representations were being made, Defendants had
actually acquired several properties that were supposed to be part of the joint
venture for themselves solely and exclusively, cutting Plaintiff out of the
project completely.
 
Specifically, Plaintiff alleges
that, in October of 2021, Plaintiff learned, through an acquaintance, of a news
article making clear that Defendant had acquired a property in Long Beach that
was supposed to be a joint venture property. 
Plaintiff immediately confronted Rawson, who acknowledged the
acquisition and indicated the parties could work it out.  The parties had a meeting on 10/18/21, at
which time Defendants admitted to having lied to Plaintiff.  
 
Plaintiff filed the complaint on
8/21/23.  The complaint includes causes
of action for breach of oral joint venture agreement, breach of oral
partnership agreement, breach of fiduciary duty, breach of the implied covenant
of good faith and fair dealing, promissory estoppel or detrimental reliance,
fraudulent concealment in business dealings, constructive fraud, accounting,
unjust enrichment and constructive trust, and declaratory relief.  
 
2.     Motions
to Compel
a.    
Parties’ Positions
Defendants propounded RPDs on
Plaintiff in December of 2023.  Defendants
propounded SROGs on Plaintiff in April of 2024. 
Plaintiff indicated an intent to produce documents, but did not do
so.  Plaintiff served responses to SROGs
consisting solely on the indication that they would provide substantive
responses in July of 2024, which they did not do. 
 
On 7/24/24, Defendants filed these
motions to compel.  Defendants seek an
order compelling Plaintiff to comply with its agreement to produce documents,
as well as an order compelling Plaintiff to serve further, substantive
responses to SROGs, without objections. 
Defendants also seek an order imposing sanctions on Plaintiff for its
failure to comply with its discovery obligations.
 
On 10/16/24, Plaintiff filed timely
opposition to the motions.  Plaintiff
indicates that, on 10/11/24, it complied with all discovery obligations, and
that the sole reason it failed to comply earlier was due to difficulty with
accessing, obtaining, and producing electronic documents in an accessible
way.  Plaintiff contends Defendants have
not been prejudiced by the delay, as the trial date was recently continued
pursuant to the parties’ stipulation.  
 
On 10/22/24, Defendants filed
timely reply papers.  Defendants do not,
in reply, take issue with Plaintiff’s responses to SROGs, and therefore the
motion to compel further responses to SROGs appears to be substantively
moot.  Defendants do, however, indicate
that the manner of production of documents was improper; specifically, they
establish Plaintiff served a single PDF that was over 12,000 pages long, and
that does not in any way comply with Plaintiff’s obligations under CCP
§2031.280(c) and (d).  
 
b.    
Production
Plaintiff must produce documents in
a manner compliant with the Code.  This
failure is particularly egregious because Plaintiff’s stated reason for delay
was the need to obtain documents in an accessible manner.  A giant PDF is not an accessible manner for
production of documents.  The document
demand has been outstanding since December of 2023.  Plaintiff must produce the documents within
fifteen days in a code-compliant manner.
 
c.    
Sanctions
The Court finds sanctions are
appropriate.  Plaintiff proffered no
justification for failing to respond timely to SROGs, which do not require
compilation of documents.  They proffered
a purported justification for failing to produce documents, but their ultimate
production did nothing to show the purported justification was anything more
than a sham designed to delay the proceedings. 

 
Defendants seek sanctions in the
amount of $7442/motion.  Attorney Ryan T.
Waggoner declares he is a partner and bills at the rate of $965/hour, and
associate Sean Bloks bills at the rate of $525/hour.  Bloks billed 10.5 hours in connection with
each motion and Waggoner billed two hours in connection with each motion.  No specifics are included in the declaration,
such as time spent on the separate statement, points and authorities, etc.  Additionally, it is unclear whether the
amounts were billed in connection with each motion, or are combined; it is odd
that the amounts would be exactly the same in connection with each motion.  The Court finds attorneys billing at such
high rates should be able to complete the work on these two discovery motions
in far less than 25 hours.  The Court is
inclined to cut the total amount in half and award a total of $7442 for both
motions.  
 
Sanctions are sought and imposed
against Plaintiff only and not against its attorney of record.  Plaintiff is ordered to pay sanctions to
Defendants, by and through their attorneys of record, in the total amount of $7442,
within twenty days.  
 
d.    
Notice
Moving Defendants are ordered to
give notice.
 
Parties who intend to submit
on this tentative must send an email to the court at gdcdepts27@lacourt.org indicating intention to submit on the tentative
as directed by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  If a party submits on
the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must identify
the party submitting on the tentative.  If
the parties do not submit on the tentative, they should arrange to appear
remotely.