 Case Number:  23LBCV00974    Hearing Date:   October 29, 2024    Dept:  S27 1.    
Background
Facts
Plaintiffs, Jesus and Diana Renteria filed this action against
Defendants, Pinner Construction Co., Inc.., et al. on 6/06/23.  Plaintiffs’ operative complaint is their
First Amended Complaint, which they filed before any pleading challenge was
heard, on 6/09/23.  The FAC includes
causes of action for general negligence, premises liability, and loss of
consortium.  The FAC alleges the
defendants, and each of them, provided negligent drawings, plans,
specifications, safety instructions, and designs for Plaintiff to use in
constructing a building.  As a result,
the building Plaintiff was working on collapsed, causing him to sustain grave
injuries.  His wife sues for loss of
consortium.  
 
2.    
Motion
to Compel
a.    
History of Dispute
Defendant propounded RPDs on
Plaintiffs on 11/03/23.  Plaintiffs
served responses on 12/19/23.  The
parties met and conferred (details will be discussed below), and on 7/25/24, Defendant
filed this motion to compel further responses to RPDs 1-15.  
 
b.     Opposition
Plaintiffs oppose the motion,
arguing (a) the meet and confer efforts were insufficient and (b) all responses
are sufficient.
 
c.     Meet
and Confer
Defense Counsel filed a declaration
in support of the motion.  The
declaration attaches Exhibits E and F, which are the parties’ meet and confer
correspondence prior to the filing of the motion.  The Court has reviewed Exhibit E, and finds
RPDs 1-15 directed at Jesus Renteria are not discussed at all in the
correspondence; only RPDs 16-20, 26, 28, and 30 are mentioned.  The Court also reviewed Plaintiff’s return
correspondence, Exhibit F, and it also did not discuss these RPDs.  The declaration, however, also attaches
Exhibit M, which is a series of emails back and forth between Counsel, and
which clearly discusses RPDs 1-15.  The
Court therefore finds the parties met and conferred re: the subject RPDs.  
 
d.     Timeliness
of Motion
Defendant, in reply, argues the
motion is timely.  Plaintiffs did not
argue to the contrary in their opposition papers.  They noted, in footnote 1, that any attempt
to move to compel further responses to other RPDs would be untimely.  Other RPDs are not at issue on this motion,
and therefore there is no issue concerning timeliness of the moving papers to
be addressed.  
 
e.     Sufficiency
of Response to RPD 1
RPD 1 seeks production of all
documents Plaintiff referred to in or relied upon to prepare his responses to
CH2M Hill’s amended SROGs, Set One. 
Plaintiff interposed various objections. 
Defendant moves to compel a further response, without objections.
 
The burden to justify an objection
to a discovery request is on the party asserting the objection.  See Fairmont
Ins. Co. v. Superior Court (2000) 22 Cal.4th 245, 255.  
 
Plaintiff, in opposition to the
motion, argues a further response is not necessary because, while he is happy
to provide (and has provided) the documents that he referred to in his SROGs,
the request for documents he relied upon is overbroad and likely includes
attorney-client privileged and/or work product materials.  Pursuant to CCP §2031.240(c)(1), when a party
objects based on privilege, the party must provide sufficient factual
information to enable other parties to evaluate the merits of the claim, including,
if necessary, a privilege log.  Plaintiff
did not attempt to meet this requirement.  The objections are therefore overruled and a
further response is compelled.
 
f.      RPDs
2-15
Plaintiff contends nothing further
is required in connection with RPDs 2-15 because he already produced all
responsive documents in his possession, custody and control in connection with
discovery propounded by other defendants. 
Defendant correctly notes, in reply, that Plaintiff provided no
authority permitting a party to simply refuse to respond to discovery
propounded by one defendant on the ground that the subject documents were
already produced in connection with discovery propounded by another defendant.  
 
Notably, documents must be sorted
and labeled to correspond with the categories in the document demand. [CCP
§ 2031.280(a); see Pollock
v. Sup.Ct. (Schuster) (2023) 93 CA5th 1348, 1359, 311 CR3d 744,
750-751, holding that failure to correlate demands with produced documents
was cured with “table that listed by Bates number which documents applied to
which requests.”  While prior law
permitted production of documents as they were kept in the ordinary course of
business, this is no longer permitted per Code. 

 
Plaintiff’s objections are
overruled.  Plaintiff must serve further
responses without objections, and must produce documents in a manner that
ensures Defendant can meaningfully identify which documents relate to which
demand.  
 
g.     Sanctions
Defendant seeks sanctions in the
amount of $7420 against Plaintiff and his attorney of record in connection with
the motion.  CCP §2031.310(h), sanctions
are mandatory unless Plaintiff acted with substantial justification or other
circumstances render imposition of sanctions unjust.  The Court finds Plaintiff took his position
in good faith and imposition of sanctions would be unjust.  The request is therefore denied.
 
The Court notes that the parties
have future discovery motions scheduled on 11/07/24.  The Court asks the parties to continue to
meet and confer in good faith in an attempt to resolve all discovery issues
without the need for the 11/07/24 hearing. 

 
h.    
Conclusion
Plaintiff must serve supplemental
responses to RPDs 1-15, without objections, within ten days.  The parties must work together to resolve
issues relating to production without the need for additional law and motion practice.  No sanctions are imposed.  
 
Moving Defendant is ordered to give
notice.
 
Parties who intend to submit
on this tentative must send an email to the court at gdcdepts27@lacourt.org indicating intention to submit on the tentative
as directed by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  If a party submits on
the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must identify
the party submitting on the tentative.  If
the parties do not submit on the tentative, they should arrange to appear
remotely.