 Case Number:  23AHCV01487    Hearing Date:   June 5, 2024    Dept:  X    Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Joel L. Lofton,
Department X
 
 
HEARING DATE:      June 5, 2024                                        TRIAL DATE: March 18, 2025 
                                                           
CASE:                         PAUL LEUS vs ALEX
VARTANIAN, et al.
 
CASE NO.:                 23AHCV01487
 
 
 
MOTION
TO BE RELIEVED AS COUNSEL

 
MOVING PARTY:               Logan Quirk, Esq.
 
RESPONDING PARTY:      No
response filed. 
 
SERVICE:                              Filed May 8, 2024
 
RELIEF
REQUESTED 
 
            Logan Quirk, Esq. moves to be relieved as counsel of record for
Plaintiff Paul Leus. 
 
BACKGROUND
 
            On June 29, 2023, Plaintiff Paul
Leus filed a complaint against Defendants Alex Vartanian, Allen Patatanyan, and
Does 1-50, alleging, (1) motor vehicle negligence; and (2) general negligence.
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 
            Counsel’s motion to be relieved as counsel is tentatively
GRANTED.
 
LEGAL STANDARD
 
Code of Civil Procedure §284(1) allows for a change or substitution of
attorney “[u]pon the consent of both client and attorney, filed with the clerk,
or entered upon the minutes.” If both parties do not consent to a substitution
of attorney, Code of Civ. Proc. §284(2) allows for a substitution “[u]pon the
order of the court, upon the application of either client or attorney, after
notice from one to the other.” California Rules of Court Rule 3.1362 sets forth
procedures for relieving counsel without the mutual consent of both parties.
 
Under California Rules of Court Rule 3.1362, an attorney seeking to
withdraw by motion rather than by consent of the client, as here, is required
to make that motion using approved Judicial Council forms. The motion also
requires a declaration stating “in general terms, and without compromising the
confidentiality of the attorney-client relationship why a motion under Code of
Civil Procedure section 284(2) is brought instead of filing a consent under
Code of Civil Procedure section 284(1).” (Cal. Rules of Ct., Rule
3.1362(c).)  Judicial Council form
MC-052, the attorney’s declaration, requires that the client be provided no
less than five days’ notice before hearing on the motion.  A proposed order prepared on form MC-053 must
also be lodged with the court with the moving
papers.
 
            California
Rules of Court Rule 3.1362 subd. (d) also requires that the motion, notice of
motion, the declaration, and the proposed order must be served on the client
and all other parties who have appeared in the case. The notice served on the
client by mail must be accompanied by a declaration stating facts that show
that either the service address is current or “that [t]he service address is the last known residence or business
address of the client and the attorney has been unable to locate a more current
address after making reasonable efforts to do so within 30 days before the
filing of the motion to be relieved.”
(California Rules of Court Rule 3.1362 subd. (d)). 
 
The Court of Appeals has recognized, “A lawyer violates his or her
ethical mandate by abandoning a
client [citation], or by withdrawing at a critical point and thereby
prejudicing the client’s case. 
[Citation.]  We are, however,
aware of no authority preventing an attorney from withdrawing from a case when
withdrawal can be accomplished without undue prejudice to the client’s
interests.” (Ramirez v. Sturdevant
(1994) 21 Cal. App. 4th 904, 915.)
 
DISCUSSION
 
            Counsel move to be relieved as counsel of record, stating:
“Attorney and client have had a breakdown in communication about the case to
the point where Counsel can no longer render representation on the client’s
behalf. Attorney’s attempted to telephone client about deposition 4.4.24,
3.27.24, 3.8.24, and 3.7.24, all of which have been unsuccessful. Client was
provided a
substitution of attorney
certified mail 4.5.24. Client to date has not returned the substitution of
attorney.” (Decl. ¶ 2.) Rule
1.16(b)(4) provides that a lawyer may withdraw if “the client by other
conduct renders it unreasonably difficult for the lawyer to carry out the
representation effectively.”
 
            Counsel provides
that the client was served at the last known address, but he was unable to
confirm that the address was current or to locate a more current address for
the client after making the following efforts: mailing the motion papers to the
client’s last known address, return receipt requested, calling the client’s
last known telephone number or numbers, and emailing client.
 
            The Court
notes that proof of service has not been filed. Thus, the Court will delay the
effective date of the order relieving counsel until (1) proof of service of a
copy of the signed order on the client and (2) proof that the client has been
properly served with notice of the next trial date have been filed with the Court.
 
 
CONCLUSION
 
            Counsel’s motion to be relieved as counsel is tentatively
GRANTED.
 
            Moving
Party to give notice. 
 
 
            
Dated:   June 5, 2024                                      ___________________________________
                                                                                    Joel
L. Lofton
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court


Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must send an email to the court
indicating their 
intention to submit.  alhdeptx@lacourt.org

 