 Case Number:  23STCV19023    Hearing Date:   December 12, 2024    Dept:  48  
 
 
SUPERIOR
COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



ELIZABETH ROSALES, 
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
 
THE CHEESECAKE FACTORY RESTAURANTS, INC.,
  et al.,
 
                        Defendants.


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


     
  CASE NO.: 23STCV19023
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER GRANTING MOTION TO COMPEL
  ARBITRATION
 
Dept. 48
8:30 a.m.
December 12, 2024



 
On August 9, 2023, Plaintiff Elizabeth Rosales filed this
action against Defendants The Cheesecake Factory Restaurants Inc., The Cheesecake
Factory Incorporated, The Cheesecake Factory LLC, and Michelle Javier.
The Complaint alleges (1) failure to provide
meals breaks; (2) failure to provide rest breaks; (3) failure to pay wages; (4)
failure to pay overtime; (5) failure to provide accurate itemized wage statements;
(6) violation of California’s Unfair Competition Law; (7) pregnancy discrimination
in violation of in violation of the Fair Employment and Housing Act (“FEHA”); (8)
sex/gender discrimination in violation of FEHA; (9) failure to prevent discrimination
and harassment in violation of FEHA; (10) failure to provide reasonable accommodation
in violation of FEHA; (11) failure to engage in the interactive process in violation
of FEHA; (12) wrongful termination in violation of public policy and FEHA; (13)
intentional infliction of emotional distress; (14) violation of California’s Pregnancy
Disability Leave law; (15) retaliation in violation of FEHA; (16) battery; (17)
assault; (18) sexual harassment in violation of FEHA; (19) hostile work environment
in violation of FEHA; (20) whistleblower retaliation in violation of the Labor Code,
and (21) negligent infliction of emotional distress.
On January 3, 2024, The Cheesecake Factory
Restaurants Inc. and The Cheesecake Factory Incorporated filed a motion to compel
arbitration.  On January 4, 2024, Michelle
Javier filed a Notice of Joinder.

At the August 6, 2024 hearing, there was a preliminary
dispute about whether the signature on the Arbitration Agreement is in fact Plaintiff’s
signature.  The Court continued the hearing,
stayed all discovery other than discovery related to the authenticity of Plaintiff’s
signature, and allowed supplemental briefing.
DISCUSSION
When seeking to compel arbitration
of a plaintiff’s claims, the defendant must allege the existence of an agreement
to arbitrate.  (Condee v. Longwood Management
Corp. (2001) 88 Cal.App.4th 215, 219 (Condee).)  The burden then shifts to the plaintiff to prove
the falsity of the agreement.  (Ibid.)  After the Court determines that an agreement to
arbitrate exists, it then considers objections to its enforceability.  (Ibid.)
The Court must grant a petition
to compel arbitration unless the defendant has waived the right to compel arbitration
or if there are grounds to revoke the arbitration agreement.  (Ibid.; Code Civ. Proc., § 1281.2.)  Under California law and the Federal Arbitration
Act (“FAA”), an arbitration agreement may be invalid based upon grounds applicable
to any contract, including unconscionability, fraud, duress, and public policy.  (Sanchez v. Western Pizza Enterprises, Inc.
(2009) 172 Cal.App.4th 154, 165-166.)
A.        Defendants Have Shown the Existence of
An Arbitration Agreement.
Plaintiff
signed an arbitration agreement with “The Cheesecake Factory Restaurants, Inc.,
a California corporation and its parents, subsidiaries and affiliated entities”
on September 18, 2020.  (Motion, Lambert-Gaffney
Decl., Ex. A [“Arbitration Agreement”].) 
The parties agreed to arbitrate “any and all disputes or claims between the
Company and me that arise out of or relate to my recruitment, employment or separation
from employment with the Company (currently existing or which may arise in the future),
including claims involving and/or against any current or former officer, director,
shareholder, agent or employee of the Company, and/or against any current or former
Company benefit plan sponsors, fiduciary or administrator, whether the disputes
or claims arise under common law, in tort, in contract, or pursuant to a statute,
regulation, or ordinance . . . .”
Plaintiff
argues that Defendant Michelle Javier is not a signatory to the Arbitration Agreement
and cannot compel arbitration.  (Opposition
at pp. 12-13.)  However, the allegations specific
to Javier state that she was performing her job duties.  (See Complaint ¶¶ 24, 174, 182.)  Javier is an “employee of the Company,” and claims
against her are covered by the Arbitration Agreement.  (See Reply, Ruiz Decl. ¶ 4; see also Complaint
¶¶ 24, 143, 174, 182, 185, 222.)  Additionally,
Plaintiff alleges that each Defendant is “an employee, agent, partner, employer,
predecessor, successor, assign, attorney, associate, joint venturer, and/or co-conspirator
of the named Defendant and at all times herein mentioned was acting within such
agency, association, partnership, venture, employment relationship, and/or conspiracy.”  (Complaint ¶ 8.)  “[W]hen a plaintiff alleges a defendant acted
as an agent of a party to an arbitration agreement, the defendant may enforce the
agreement even though the defendant is not a party thereto.”  (Thomas v. Westlake (2012) 204 Cal.App.4th
605, 614.)
Defendants
have satisfied their burden of showing the existence of an agreement to arbitrate
that covers Plaintiff’s claims.
B.        Defendants Have Met Their Burden of Proving
the Signature’s Authenticity.
“[A]
petitioner is not required to authenticate an opposing party’s signature on an arbitration
agreement as a preliminary matter in moving for arbitration or in
the event the authenticity of the signature is not challenged.”  (Ruiz v. Moss Bros. Auto Group, Inc. (2014)
232 Cal.App.4th 836, 846.)  When the opposing
party does not recall signing the agreement, then the petitioner has the burden
of proving by a preponderance of the evidence that the signature is authentic.  (Ibid.)
As
set forth in the Court’s August 6, 2024 order, there was a preliminary dispute about
whether the signature on the Arbitration Agreement is in fact Plaintiff’s signature.  Plaintiff contends that she never signed the agreement
and does not recognize it.
According to Plaintiff, the
personnel documents provided by Defendants did not contain the Arbitration Agreement
submitted with this motion; instead, there was an unsigned arbitration agreement
written in Spanish.  (Opposition, Oganesian
Decl. ¶ 6.)  In response, the Records Custodian
of Cheesecake’s Legal Department declares that she personally handled Plaintiff’s
demand for her personnel and payroll records. 
(Suppl. Motion, Dick Decl. ¶ 5.)  She
attaches a copy of the response letter and electronic scan that she mailed to Plaintiff’s
counsel.  (Suppl. Motion, Dick Decl. ¶ 5.)  This exhibit does include a signed English version
of the Arbitration Agreement that matches the Arbitration Agreement provided by
Defendants with the motion.
The General Manager who handled
Plaintiff’s onboarding declares that he presented Plaintiff with a Mutual Agreement
to Arbitrate Claims, among other documents, on September 18, 2020 during her on
boarding process.  (Suppl. Motion, Williams
Decl. ¶ 5.)  On the same day, Plaintiff returned
the documents with her printed name and signature.  (Suppl. Motion, Williams Decl. ¶ 5.)  The General Manager provided the Operations Support
Technician with Plaintiff’s signed Arbitration Agreement, which was placed in Plaintiff’s
personnel file.  (Suppl. Motion, Williams
Decl. ¶ 5; Suppl. Motion, Morales Decl. ¶ 5.)
Plaintiff provides no supplemental
evidence with her Supplemental Opposition.
The Court finds that Defendants
have proven
by a preponderance of the evidence that the signature of Plainiff is authentic.
C.        The Arbitration Agreement Satisfies The
Armendariz Factors.
Arbitration
agreements for FEHA claims must (1) provide for neutral arbitrators, (2) provide
for more than minimal discovery, (3) require a written award, (4) provide for all
of the types of relief that would otherwise be available in court, and (5) not require
employees to pay either unreasonable costs or any arbitrators’ fees or expenses
as a condition of access to the arbitration forum.  (Armendariz v. Foundation Health Psychcare
Services, Inc. (2000) 24 Cal.4th 83, 102 (Armendariz).)  These requirements may apply to non-FEHA employment
claims.  (See Pinela v. Neiman Marcus Group,
Inc. (2015) 238 Cal.App.4th 227, 254 [applying the Armendariz factors
in the context of claims under the Labor Code].)
The
Arbitration Agreement provides for arbitration using a neutral arbitrator in accordance
with the Employment Arbitration Rules and Mediation Procedures issued by the American
Arbitration Association.  The arbitrator shall
render a written award and opinion with the essential findings and conclusions upon
which the award is based.  Discovery shall
be conducted to the extent necessary to adequately arbitrate or defend any claims,
including access to essential documents and witnesses, as determined by the arbitrator.  The company will bear the fees and expenses that
are unique to arbitration.  Nothing precludes
any type of relief that would otherwise be available in court.
Accordingly,
the Arbitration Agreement satisfies Armendariz.
D.        The Arbitration Agreement Is Not Invalid
Under the EFAA.
Plaintiff
argues that the federal Ending Forced Arbitration of Sexual Assault and Sexual Harassment
Act of 2021 (“EFAA”) invalidates the Arbitration Agreement.  (Opposition at pp. 9-12.)  Under the EFAA, no predispute arbitration agreement
is valid or enforceable with respect to a case that relates to a sexual assault
dispute or a sexual harassment dispute.  
(9 U.S.C.A. § 402(a).)  “[T]he statute
applies to the entire case, not merely to the sexual assault or sexual harassment
claims alleged as a part of the case.  It
is significant, moreover, that the statute does not require that the pendant claims
arise out of the sexual assault or sexual harassment dispute; it is enough
that the case relates to the sexual assault or sexual harassment claims.”  (Doe v. Second Street Corp. (2024) 105
Cal.App.5th 552, 577.)
“The
term ‘sexual harassment dispute’ means a dispute relating to conduct that is alleged
to constitute sexual harassment under applicable Federal, Tribal, or State law.”  (9 U.S.C.A. § 401(4).)  “Both the FEHA and title VII of the Federal Civil
Rights Act [citation] prohibit employers from discharging or otherwise discriminating
against a person on the basis of race in compensation, terms, conditions, or privileges
of employment.  [Citations.]  Although the state and federal antidiscrimination
legislation ‘differ in some particulars, their objectives are identical, and California
courts have relied upon federal law to interpret analogous provisions of the state
statute.  [Citations.]’”  (Clark v. Claremont University Center (1992)
6 Cal.App.4th 639, 662.)  Borrowing from federal
law, then, “[u]nwelcome sexual advances, requests for sexual favors, and other verbal
or physical conduct of a sexual nature constitute sexual harassment when (1) submission
to such conduct is made either explicitly or implicitly a term or condition of an
individual’s employment, (2) submission to or rejection of such conduct by an individual
is used as the basis for employment decisions affecting such individual, or (3)
such conduct has the purpose or effect of unreasonably interfering with an individual’s
work performance or creating an intimidating, hostile, or offensive working environment.”  (29 C.F.R. § 1604.11.)
Plaintiff
argues that she “was subjected to multiple instances of sexual harassment from on
or about June 15, 2022 to on or about July 16, 2022.  Defendant Michelle Javier subjected Plaintiff
to several episodes of sexual harassment, creating hostile working conditions when
she made off-hand remarks and yelled insults at Plaintiff regarding Plaintiff’s
sex, gender, sexual orientation, and pregnancy at Defendant’s workplace.”  (Opposition at pp. 10-11.)
Although
Plaintiff labels the eighteenth cause of action “Sexual Harassment in Violation
of FEHA,” the actual allegations about Javier’s conduct are not sexual harassment.  On July 11, 2022, Javier “aggressively bumping
into Plaintiff while Plaintiff was pregnant and yelling at Plaintiff, ‘I don’t give
a flying f*** about you or your pregnancy.’” 
(Complaint ¶ 24.)  Javier “continued
to harass Plaintiff ordering her to ‘Shut the f*** up,’ mocking and laughing at
Plaintiff, and physically bumping into Plaintiff’s body in the presence of Defendants’
customers, management team and staff.”  (Complaint
¶ 24.)  Other allegations include “physical
assault, amounted to a series of harmful and offensive contacts to Plaintiff’s person”
and “harassment, mockery, and humiliation of Plaintiff.”  (Complaint ¶¶ 174, 223; see also Complaint ¶ 182.)
There
are no facts about “unwelcome sexual advances, requests for sexual favors, and other
verbal or physical conduct of a sexual nature.” 
(See 29 C.F.R. § 1604.11.)  Accordingly,
Plaintiff has not “alleg[ed] conduct constituting a sexual harassment dispute or
sexual assault dispute,” and the EFAA does not prevent arbitration.  (See 9 U.S.C.A. § 402(a).)
E.        The Arbitration Agreement Should Be Enforced.
Plaintiff
does not argue that the Arbitration Agreement is unconscionable or is unenforceable
for any other reason.  Because Plaintiff has not shown any grounds
to revoke the arbitration agreement, the Court must grant the motion.  (See Condee, supra, 88 Cal.App.4th at p.
219; Code Civ. Proc., § 1281.2.)
F.         The Court Will Stay the Entire Action.
A
court must grant a motion to compel arbitration unless a party to the arbitration
agreement is also a party to a pending court action with a third party arising out
of the same transaction and there is a possibility of conflicting rulings on a common
issue of law or fact.  (Code Civ. Proc., §
1281.2, subd. (c).)  If the court does determine
that subdivision (c) applies, the court may order arbitration among the parties
who have agreed to arbitration and stay the pending court action or special proceeding
pending the outcome of the arbitration proceeding, or may stay arbitration pending
the outcome of the court action.  (Code Civ.
Proc., § 1281.2.)
Defendant The Cheesecake Factory
LLC is named in the Complaint, but Plaintiff has not yet filed a proof of service,
and this Defendant has not appeared in this action.  Plaintiff alleges all 21 causes of action jointly
against The Cheesecake Factory LLC and other Defendants.  If the case against The Cheesecake Factory LLC
were to proceed in court while the case against the other Defendants is arbitrated,
there
is a possibility of conflicting rulings on a common issue of law or fact.  The Court will therefore stay the entire action
during Defendants’ arbitration.
CONCLUSION
Defendants’
motion to compel arbitration is GRANTED. 
The entire action is STAYED pending the conclusion of the arbitration.
A
Status Conference re: Arbitration is scheduled for December 11, 2025 at 8:30 a.m.
in Department 48 at Stanley Mosk Courthouse. 
Five court days before, the parties are to file a joint report stating the
name of their retained arbitrator and the status of arbitration.
Moving
party to give notice.
Parties
who intend to submit on this tentative must send an email to the Court at SMCDEPT48@lacourt.org
indicating intention to submit.  If all parties
in the case submit on the tentative ruling, no appearances before the Court are
required unless a companion hearing (for example, a Case Management Conference)
is also on calendar.
 
        
Dated this 12th day of December 2024
 




 


 




 


Hon. Thomas D. Long
Judge of the Superior
  Court
 




 