 Case Number:  23STCV17095    Hearing Date:   December 12, 2024    Dept:  48  
 
 
SUPERIOR
COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



YVETTE MORALES, 
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
 
WOMEN’S AND CHILDREN’S CRISIS SHELTER, INC.,
 
                        Defendant.


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


     
  CASE NO.: 23STCV17095
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER DENYING DEFENDANT’S MOTION
  TO STRIKE
 
Dept. 48
8:30 a.m.
December 12, 2024



 
On
January 16, 2024, Plaintiff Yvette Morales filed a first amended complaint
(“FAC”) against Defendant Women’s and Children’s Crisis Shelter, Inc.
On
February 21, 2024, Defendant filed a motion to strike allegations related to
punitive damages
The
court may, upon a motion or at any time in its discretion: (1) strike out any irrelevant,
false, or improper matter inserted in any pleading; or (2) strike out all or any
part of any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of California,
a court rule, or an order of the court.  (Code
Civ. Proc., § 436, subds. (a)-(b).)
A
plaintiff can recover punitive damages in tort cases where “the defendant has been
guilty of oppression, fraud, or malice.” 
(Civ. Code, § 3294, subd. (a).)  “The
mere allegation an intentional tort was committed is not sufficient to warrant an
award of punitive damages.  [Citation.]  Not only must there be circumstances of oppression,
fraud or malice, but facts must be alleged in the pleading to support such a claim.
 [Citation.]”  (Grieves v. Superior Court (1984) 157 Cal.App.3d
159, 166, fn. omitted.)
Defendant
specifically seeks to strike Paragraphs 22, 29, 33, 37, 41, 45, 51, 57, 63, and
68, which allege, “WCCS’s Board of Directors intentionally discriminated
against Plaintiff because she was pregnant, and then lied about their reasons
for Plaintiff’s termination to hide WCCS’s Board of Directors’ real reasons for
its actions.  These intentional acts by
WCCS’s Board of Directors constitute oppression, fraud and malice against
Plaintiff, and, therefore, entitle the Plaintiff to an award of punitive and
exemplary damages.”  Defendant also seeks
to strike the prayer for punitive and exemplary damages. 
Defendant
contends that “Plaintiff’s First Amended Complaint and the request for punitive
damages includes language that contains mere legal conclusions, which are not
supported by specific factual allegations that warrants an award of punitive
damages.”  (Motion at p. 7.)
Ironically,
it is Defendant’s motion that “contains mere legal conclusions.”  The majority of the motion only sets forth a
summary of the FAC’s claims, basic legal standards for motions to strike and
the Court’s authority to strike allegations, and a recitation of the
allegations that Defendant seeks to strike. 
(Motion at pp. 2-10.)
According
to Defendant, “Plaintiff has not alleged any facts in the First Amended
Complaint that support the claim for punitive damages in that Plaintiff has not
pled circumstances of oppression, fraud or malice on the part of Defendant.  Nor do the facts as pled in the First Amended
Complaint show that Defendant had an evil motive, nor does Plaintiff establish
intent in the First Amended Complaint.” 
(Motion at p. 6.)  “The Plaintiff
in this case should be precluded from asserting a claim for punitive damages
based on the conclusory allegations set forth in the First Amended Complaint,
especially in light of the fact that the law does not favor punitive damages in
cases such as this instant case.”  (Id.
at p. 7.)  “In this case, the facts
alleged in the First Amended Complaint do not appear on their face to be facts
that demonstrate oppression, fraud, or malice on the part of Defendant that
would allow the punitive damages allegations to survive a Motion to Strike.  The facts as alleged, simply do not establish
oppression, fraud, or malice.”  (Ibid.)  “Plaintiff’s First Amended Complaint and the
request for punitive damages includes language that contains mere legal
conclusions, which are not supported by specific factual allegations that
warrants an award of punitive damages. Therefore, the allegations and prayers
for punitive damages in the First Amended Complaint, as set forth below, are
improper and should be stricken from Plaintiff’s First Amended Complaint.”  (Id. at pp. 7-8.)  Defendant concludes, “As set forth throughout
this Memorandum of Points and Authorities, it is clear that the Court has the
legal authority to grant this Motion to Strike portions in Plaintiff’s First
Amended Complaint as specified in this Motion, including striking the prayers
for punitive damages.”  (Id. at p.
10.)
Defendant’s
cited legal authority establishes only that a plaintiff must allege facts about
intentional malice, oppression, or fraud, and that punitive damages should be
granted cautiously.  Defendant makes no
attempt to engage with the substance of Plaintiff’s allegations and demonstrate
why the allegations are insufficient. 
Defendant’s failure to provide any relevant argument is nearly the same
as filing no motion at all.  (See Interinsurance
Exchange v. Collins (1994) 30 Cal.App.4th 1445, 1448 [“[P]arties are
required to include argument and citation to authority in their briefs, and the
absence of these necessary elements allows this court to treat [an] issue as
waived.”]; Dabney v. Dabney (2002) 104 Cal.App.4th 379, 384 [“We need
not consider an argument for which no authority is furnished.”].)
Although
the paragraphs that Defendant seeks to strike are conclusory, the FAC contains
other allegations that provide context and factual support for those
conclusions.  Plaintiff alleges that
shortly after she announced her pregnancy at work, she was issued a Performance
Improvement Plan and was placed under investigation for a concern brought up by
a staff member.  (FAC ¶ 10.)  At a meeting the next month, Plaintiff was
not told who complained or what the complaint was.  (FAC ¶ 11.) 
Plaintiff met with her acting supervisor regarding her maternity leave
and her Performance Improvement Plan, and she was told that “her performance
was headed in the right direction, and not to worry because [Plaintiff] was
doing great.”  (FAC ¶ 16.)  The acting supervisor also asked Plaintiff
“whether she planned to have more children because she said it was very
difficult to find coverage for [Plaintiff], and asked whether she had to
counsel [Plaintiff] about having more children.”  (FAC ¶ 16.) 
When Plaintiff attempted to return to work after her maternity leave,
she was told that she had to resign her position as Executive Director because
the Board of Directors held a vote to terminate her because of no
confidence.  (FAC ¶ 20.)  Plaintiff alleges that this reason “was an
intentional falsification to hide the intentional discrimination by WCCS’s
Board of Directors based on Plaintiff’s pregnancy, and retaliation for
Plaintiff’s taking pregnancy leave.” 
(FAC ¶ 21; see FAC ¶ 23-24.)
“[W]rongful
termination, without more, will not sustain a finding of malice or
oppression.”  (Scott v. Phoenix
Schools, Inc. (2009) 175 Cal.App.4th 702, 717.)  However, “[e]vidence that the decisionmaker
[for discrimination] attempted to hide the improper basis with a false
explanation” can support an award of punitive damages.  (Cloud v. Casey (1999) 76 Cal.App.4th
895, 912.)  The FAC contains sufficient
facts to allege that Defendant acted pretextually when terminating Plaintiff’s
employment.
The
motion to strike is DENIED.  Defendant is
ordered to file an answer within 10 days.
Moving
party to give notice.
Parties
who intend to submit on this tentative must send an email to the Court at SMCDEPT48@lacourt.org
indicating intention to submit.  If all parties
in the case submit on the tentative ruling, no appearances before the Court are
required unless a companion hearing (for example, a Case Management Conference)
is also on calendar.
 
        
Dated this 12th day of December 2024
 




 


 




 


Hon. Thomas D. Long
Judge of the Superior
  Court
 




 