  Case Number:  21STCV33523    Hearing Date:   August 5, 2024    Dept:  32 


 
MATILDE RODRIGUEZ,
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
 
BMW OF NORTH AMERICA,
  LLC, et al., 
                        Defendants.
  


 
  Case No.:  21STCV33523
  Hearing Date:  August 5, 2024
 
     [TENTATIVE]
  order RE:
defendant bmw of north america, llc’s
  motion to stay action




 


 



BACKGROUND
            On September 10, 2021, Plaintiff
Matilde Rodriguez filed the instant action against BMW of North America, LLC
(BMW NA) and BMW of Ontario. The complaint asserts causes of action for breach
of express and implied warranties under the Song-Beverly Act and a cause of
action for negligence. 
            On June 18, 2024, BMW NA filed the
instant motion to stay the proceedings pending the California Supreme Court review
of the appellate decision in Rodriguez v. FCA US, LLC (2022) 77
Cal.App.5th 209. Plaintiff filed her opposition on July 24, 2024. 
LEGAL STANDARD
“Courts have inherent authority to control
their own calendars and dockets . . . .” (Walker v. Superior Court
(1991) 53 Cal.3d 257, 267.) This includes “the inherent power to stay
proceedings in the interests of justice and to promote judicial efficiency.” (Freiberg
v. City of Mission Viejo (1995) 33 Cal.App.4th 1484, 1489.) “The court may
grant a continuance only on an affirmative showing of good cause requiring the
continuance.” (Cal. Rules of Ct., Rule 3.1332(c).)
DISCUSSION
I. The Rodriguez Case  
In Rodriguez, the Court of
Appeal affirmed summary judgment in favor of FCA on claims brought under the
Song-Beverly Act, holding that the Act’s refund-or-replace provision, which
applies to a “new motor vehicle,” only applies to vehicles that have not
previously been sold. (Rodriguez, supra, 77 Cal.App.5th at p. 209.) This may include “previously driven but not
previously sold vehicles, such as a demonstrator or loaner, where the warranty
was issued with the sale.” (Ibid.) But the court held that the provision does not apply to “previously
owned vehicles with a balance remaining on the manufacturer's express warranty.”
(Ibid.) The
vehicle in Rodriguez was not covered under the definition of “new motor vehicle” because it
was purchased from a used car dealership and had at least one prior consumer
owner.  
            The
plaintiffs in Rodriguez had argued that a “new motor vehicle” includes any vehicle sold with a
balance remaining on the warranty because the definition includes “other motor
vehicle sold with a manufacturer's new car warranty.” (Rodriguez, supra, 77
Cal.App.5th at pp. 219-20.) The court rejected this construction based on the
context of the entire statute. (Ibid.) Specifically, the Act defines “new motor vehicle” to include “a
dealer-owned vehicle and demonstrator,” which is a narrow class of vehicles
that have been “used” in the literal sense but are nonetheless treated as new
because they are sold with the same manufacturer’s warranty that accompanies
new cars. (Id. at p. 220.) The court held that the catchall phrase “other motor
vehicle sold with a manufacturer's new car warranty” similarly refers to “vehicles
that have never been previously sold to a consumer and come with full express
warranties.” (Ibid.) 
II. Whether a Stay is Warranted in This Case
BMW NA seeks a
stay, contending that if the Supreme Court affirms Rodriguez, Plaintiff’s claims will necessarily fail. Plaintiff argues that it is
immaterial whether the Act covers a used vehicle sold with a balance on the
warranty because her claims are not based on the balance of a prior existing
warranty, but on an independent Certified Pre-Owned warranty specifically issued
with her purchase. (See Rodriguez Decl., Ex. A.) Plaintiff argues that even
under Rodriguez, a manufacturer is liable for the warranty on a used good if “the
manufacturer issues a new warranty along with the sale of the used good.” (Rodriguez, supra, 77
Cal.App.5th at p. 218.) 
            When
Plaintiff purchased the vehicle, she received a document titled “Vehicle
Warranty/Maintenance Status” document stating: “Certified Pre-Owned – Limited
Warranty extended for an additional 1 year.” (Rodriguez Decl., Ex. A.) BMW NA
acknowledges that it is the warrantor of the Certified Pre-owned warranty.
(Mtn. 1:9-10.) Because the Certified Pre-Owned warranty was expressly extended
in connection with the specific sale to Plaintiff, Plaintiff is not merely
relying on the balance of an existing warranty. 
 
In Kiluk v. Mercedes-Benz USA, LLC (2019) 43 Cal.App.5th 334, 337, Mercedes-Benz similarly “issued a
certified preowned warranty that would last for one year from the end of the
new car warranty.” The Court of Appeal affirmed the trial court’s finding that
“the Song-Beverly Act applied to the used car warranty issued by Mercedes Benz.”
(Id. at pp. 338-41.)
Similarly, BMW NA issued a Certified Pre-Owned warranty with Plaintiff’s used
car purchase. Because there is a basis for liability against BMW NA apart from Rodriguez, a stay
pending the outcome in Rodriguez is unwarranted. 
CONCLUSION
            BMW
NA’s motion to stay is DENIED.