 Case Number:  22STCV31621    Hearing Date:   July 25, 2024    Dept:  O Tentative Ruling
 
DEFENDANT
BO SUN’S MOTION FOR LEAVE TO FILE CROSS-COMPLAINT is GRANTED, namely
has Wendy has set forth no evidence of bad faith. 
 
Background
 
This is a
contracts case. Plaintiff Wendy Lin (“Wendy” or “Plaintiff”) alleges that she
and Defendant Bo Sun (“Bo” or “Defendant”) formed TOPTREE INVESTMENT LLC
(“Toptree”) with the purpose of jointly purchasing a property in Chino Hills
(the “property”). Plaintiff paid the entire purchase price, but Bo has failed
to pay his $50,000 capital contribution such that by the terms of the Operating
Agreement, Bo has lost his entire membership interest in the company. (See
generally First Amended Complaint (FAC).) 
 
On September
27, 2022, Plaintiff filed suit against Defendant Bo Sun and Toptree for: 1.     Breach of Contract 2.     Fraud 3.     Judicial Dissolution 4.     Reformation of Deed 5.     Declaratory Relief.
 
On February
28, 2023, the court sustained Bo’s demurrer.[1]
 
On March 10,
2023, Wendy filed a FAC against Bo, Toptree, and ALL PERSONS UNKNOWN, CLAIMING
ANY LEGAL OR EQUITABLE RIGHT, ESTATE, LIEN, OR INTEREST IN THE PROPERTY
DESCRIBED IN THIS COMPLAINT ADVERSE TO PLAINTIFF'S TITLE, OR ANY CLOUD UPON
PLAINTIFF'S TITLE 18 THERETO wherein she pleaded the following COAs: 1.     Rescission based on Breach of Contract 2.     Concealment 3.     Judicial Dissolution 4.     Quiet Title 5.     Declaratory Relief
 
On May 13,
2024, Bo filed the instant motion.
 
On July 17,
2024, Wendy filed her opposition. 
 
Legal
Standard
This case
involves the interpretation and application of Code of Civil Procedure section
426.60. 
A party
who fails to plead a cause of action subject to the requirements of this
article, whether through oversight, inadvertence, mistake, neglect, or other
cause, may apply to the court for leave to amend his pleading, or to file a
cross-complaint, to assert such cause at any time during the course of the
action. The court, after notice to the adverse party, SHALL GRANT, upon
such terms as may be just to the parties, leave to amend the pleading, or to
file the cross-complaint, to assert such cause if the party who failed
to plead the cause acted in GOOD FAITH. This subdivision shall be
liberally construed to avoid forfeiture of causes of action. ([CCP § 426.50, emphasis and
capitalization added.)
As explained by the court in Silver Orgs. V. Frank (1990) 217 Cal.App.3d 94 (Silver),
which is a seminal case on the issue:
It is []
necessary to examine the amorphous concept of bad faith. Bad faith is defined
as ‘[t]he opposite of “good faith,” generally implying or involving actual or
constructive fraud, or a design to mislead or deceive another, or a neglect or
refusal to fulfill some duty or some contractual obligation, not prompted by an
honest mistake ..., but by some interested or sinister motive[,] ... not
simply bad judgment or negligence, but rather ... the conscious doing of a
wrong because of dishonest purpose or moral obliquity; ... it contemplates
a state of mind affirmatively operating with furtive design or ill will.’ (Id,
at p. 100 (emphasis added), citing Pugh v. See’s Candies, Inc. (1988)
203 Cal.App.3d 743, 764.)[2] 
Courts
at best have only a “modicum of discretion” in denying leave to file a
compulsory cross-complaint. (Gherman v. Colburn (1977) 72 Cal.App.3d
544, 559.) Should the court deny the motion to file a cross-complaint, it must
be supported by “substantial evidence” (Silver, supra, 217 Cal.App.3d at
p. 99), evidence which is “of ponderable legal significance, …reasonable in
nature, credible, and of solid value.” (Ibid, quoting Bowers v.
Bernards (1984) 150 Cal.App.3d 870, 873.) The legislative mandate is clear:
“[t]he objective, of course, is to encourage
trial on the merits whenever possible.” (Foot’s Transfer & Storage
Co. v. Superior Court (1980) 114 Cal.App.3d 897, 901.) 
Discussion
Defendant Bo seeks leave to
file a cross-complaint against Wendy in addition to Nature Land, Inc. and Vua
Kho Bo, Inc. which are other third-party entities which are owned by Wendy.
(Motion p. 3:2-5.) In opposition, Wendy argues that Bo has set forth no
explanation as to why he waited two years after the onset of litigation
to file a compulsory cross-complaint against her. (Opp. p. 2:7-9.) But that is
irrelevant. “[T]he late
filing of the motion to file a compulsory cross-complaint absent some evidence
of bad faith is insufficient evidence to support denial of the motion.”
(Silvers, supra, 217 Cal.App.3d at p. 101.) 
Though not argued in
opposition, to the extent that Plaintiff may argue that the late filing is
being done in bad faith, such a showing rest upon Wendy. If the cross-complaint
is compulsory, which as Defendant notes is the case here (Reply p. 2:10-100),
it is the defendant, not the plaintiff, who must allege that its failure
to timely plead the claim was in good faith. (Silvers, supra, 217
Cal.App.3d at pp. 98-100.) “Good faith” is established by proving a
negative—namely, there is no substantial evidence that the defendant acted in
bad faith. (Id. at p. 100.) A finding of bad faith requires evidence of
“dishonest purpose, moral obliquity, sinister motive, furtive design or ill
will.” (Ibid.) Evidence of oversight, inadvertence, neglect, or mistake
is, by itself, insufficient to establish bad faith. (Id. at p. 99.) Thus, implied in this rule is
that the plaintiff must provide some showing of bad faith for Bo to then
negative. Here, however, Wendy has failed to offer any evidence of bad
faith in seeking leave to file the cross-complaint. 
To the extent that Wendy
argues she will be prejudiced, not necessarily. To the contrary, the failure to permit the filing of the cross-complaint
would be prejudicial. (Foot’s Transfer, supra, 114 Cal.App.3d at p.
901.) What is more, no trial date has not yet been set, and even if it
was, absent a showing of bad faith, filing a compulsory cross-complaint is
permissible on the eve of trial. (See generally Silver, supra.) Plus,
discovery is ongoing (Reply p. 2), and even if more discovery is
required, it should not take Wendy by surprise as she concedes these facts have
been known from the outset. (Opp. p. 3:1-2.) 
As for the third-party
defendants, the opposition does not seem to take issue with filing a
cross-complaint against them. (See Opp. p. 3:19-20 [“For the foregoing reasons,
Plaintiff respectfully requests that Defendant's motion be denied as to
Plaintiff Wendy Lin.”], emphasis added.) 
Conclusion
Based on the foregoing, as
there is no evidence (let alone substantial evidence) of bad faith, the trial
court must grant this motion.[3]
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


