  Case Number:  22PSCV00888    Hearing Date:   July 25, 2024    Dept:  O Tentative Ruling
 
PLAINTIFFS’
NOTICE OF MOTION AND MOTION TO TAX COSTS is DENIED in part and GRANTED in part (Item 1 is
stricken as to the protective order; Item 9 and 15 are stricken in their
entirety). (Avalon
agrees to reduce its cost memorandum to $629.27). 
 
Background[1]
 
This case
pertains to the evacuation of over 150 residents at the condominium units
located at Diamond Bar Village (“DBV”). Plaintiffs, the owners of condominium
units, allege the following against Defendants THE AVALON MANAGEMENT GROUP,
INC. (“Avalon”), a California corporation; DIAMOND BAR VILLAGE ASSOCIATION
(“HOA” or “DBV”), a California nonprofit corporation; LARRY CARMACK, an
individual; JAMES HOPKINS, an individual; KHATRI INTERNATIONAL, INC., a Nevada
corporation and DIPLIP MULCHAND KHATRI, an individual (collectively, “Khatri
Defendants” or “Khatri”); RKA CONSULTING GROUP, a California corporation
(“RKA”); CITY OF DIAMOND BAR, a governmental entity (occasionally referred to
as the “City”): On September 27, 2021, Defendants Avalon and the HOA sent an
e-mail to all the residents and owners of DBV, including Plaintiffs, advising
them for the first time that all the residents may need to evacuate the Subject
Property due to “impending risk to the health and safety of residents from the
roof rafter conditions.” (First Amended Complaint (FAC) ¶75.)
The City’s Notice
and Order to Vacate DBV (“Vacate Order”) referenced a 2017 report that found
similar problems with Termite, Dry Rot, and structural damage. However,
Plaintiffs were not informed about the 2017 report; therefore, the first time
Plaintiffs learned of any possible massive evacuation was in 2021. That said,
the Vacate Order was rescinded because on October 25, 2021, Plaintiffs’ own
structural engineer determined that there was no imminent threat of collapse to
the buildings at DBV. Although the Vacate Order had been rescinded by the City,
Plaintiffs still suffered damages because they “had to pay their tenants
relocation fees and lost rent for months . . . and had to live through the
chaos, discomfort, trash being dumped everywhere, the swimming pool being green
and full of mosquitos, the lack of maintenance to the Subject Property, the
news reporters being at the Subject Property, and the threat of fines and
penalties being levied by the City and being arrested by the police for failure
to vacate by October 18, 2021.” (FAC ¶100.) 
 
On August 18, 2022, Plaintiffs filed suit.
 
On May 7, 2024, the court issues its final ruling on Avalon’s MSJ
re: Plaintiffs’ Complaint and the Cross-Complaint filed against DBV wherein the
court granted both motions.
 
On May 31, 2024, Avalon filed its Memorandum of Costs.
 
On June 4, 2024, judgment was entered in favor of Avalon.
 
On June 5, 2024, Plaintiffs filed the instant motion.
 
On June 7, 2024, Plaintiffs filed ‘OBJECTIONS TO THE AVALON
MANAGEMENT GROUP, INC.’S PROPOSED JUDGMENT SERVED ON MAY 31, 2024’ contending
that the court should not enter the amount of costs as part of the Judgment
until there is a determination on Plaintiffs’ Motion to Tax Cost. 
 
On June 25, 2024, Avalon filed its opposition.
 
On July 12, 2024, Plaintiffs filed their reply.
 
Legal Standard
 
Pursuant
to Code of Civil Procedure (CCP) section 1032 subdivision (b), “a prevailing
party is entitled as a matter of right to recover costs in any action or
proceeding.” The non-prevailing party may dispute any or all of the items in
the prevailing party’s costs memorandum by a motion to tax costs. (CRC
3.1700(b).) 
 
Costs
recoverable under the statute are restricted to those that are both: (i)
reasonable in amount and (ii) reasonably necessary to the conduct of
litigation. (CCP section 1033.5(c)(2) & (3).) But costs that are “merely convenient or beneficial” are
disallowed. (Id. at (c)(2); see also Ladas v.
California State Automobile Association (1993)
19 Cal.App.4th 761, 774.) Whether a cost item was reasonably necessary to the
litigation presents a question of fact for the trial court and its decision is
reviewed for abuse of discretion. (Ibid.) “If the items appearing in a
cost bill appear to be proper charges, the burden is on the party seeking to
tax costs to show that they were not reasonable or necessary. On the other
hand, if the items are properly objected to, they are put in issue and the
burden of proof is on the party claiming them as costs.” (Ibid.) 
 
Discussion
 
Plaintiffs move for an order taxing
the costs of this action under CRC Rule 3.1700 by reducing or striking the
following items from Avalon’s Memorandum of Costs:
 
1.              
Item
No. 1, “Filing and motion fees” in the sum of $2,762.96, on the ground that
this item was not properly itemized or calculated and to reduce the filing and
motion fees to $935.00;
2.              
Item
No. 9, “Court-ordered transcripts” in the sum of $1,060.40, on the ground that
this Court did not order any transcripts; and
3.              
Item
No. 15, “Fees for hosting electronic documents” in the amount of $21,277.50 on
the ground that this Court did not require or order any hosting of electronic
documents.
 
1.    
Item No. 1
 
Pursuant to CCP section 1033.5, filing
and motion fees are allowable costs under section 1032. 
 
Plaintiffs argue that the only
allowable costs should be those motions that pertain to Plaintiffs. More
specifically, Plaintiffs argue that necessary to the conduct of litigation
would be (i) Avalon’s Answer to Plaintiffs’ Complaint ($435.00 for the first
court appearance fee) and (2) Avalon’s MSJ on Plaintiffs’ FAC ($500.00) (for a
total of $935.00). As for Avalon’s MSA as to the cross-complaint, Plaintiffs
argue they were not named and thus should not be required to pay the cost. As
for the Motion for Protective Order, that was withdrawn.
 
In opposition, Avalon argues that the
record in this case does not support Plaintiffs’ argument that that they should
be exempt from recoverable costs consisting of filing fees on a motion they
opposed.  (Opp. p. 3.)
 
Here,
the court agrees with Avalon. 
 
For one, if the Legislature had meant
to exclude costs not directly pertaining to a non-aggrieved party,
it would have done so explicitly in CCP section 1033.5(b). Second, though pertaining
to whether mediation costs were recoverable, the court in Gibson v. Bobroff (1996)
49 Cal.App.4th 1202 “reject[ed] [a party’s] view that only those costs DIRECTLY
related to the preparation …of a case are recoverable as being ‘reasonably
necessary to the conduct of the litigation.’” (Id. at p. 1210,
capitalization added.) Applying the same rationale here, encouraging parties to
resolve lawsuits (via summary judgment/adjudication) at the earliest time and
before a time-consuming trial is a necessary part of litigation, and the
award of costs with such a motion is no less reasonably necessary to the
conduct of the litigation. (Id. at p. 1209.) Third, even if the MSA did
not directly involve Plaintiffs, the MSA nevertheless was reasonably
necessary to the litigation as evidenced by Plaintiffs’ 47-page
opposition—that included Counsel Chiang’s declaration, exhibits, a legal brief
consisting of 25 pages, and a Separate Statement consisting of 16 pages—and a
supplemental brief. (Opp. p. 2:18-22.) 
 
Therefore,
the court finds the costs associated with the MSA recoverable.[2]
As for the opposition, it does not discuss the motion for protective order. The
court will clarify if this cost should be reduced and in what amount. 
 
2.    
Transcripts 
 
Pursuant to CCP section 1033.5: “(b)
The following items are NOT allowable as costs, except when expressly
authorized by law: . . . (5) Transcripts of court proceedings NOT ORDERED by
the court.” (capitalization added.)
 
Avalon states that the “court
indicated a desire to review the transcript to assist in its consideration of
the motion” (Opp. p. 4:15-16) to seemingly suggest that the court ordered a
transcript. Not so. At the 3/18/24 hearing, Avalon already requested a court
reporter to be present.[3]
Moreover, at the conclusion of the hearing, the court asked Counsel
Hesse whether he will “be getting a transcript or not” to which Counsel Hesse
stated “yes.” (Reply pp. 6-7, quoting Reporter’s Transcript, 29:3-22.) 
 
Therefore,
as the court did not order, the cost of $1,060.40 is not recoverable and
is stricken in its entirety. (Garcia v. Hyster Co. (1994) 28 Cal.App.4th 724, 732 [“It is axiomatic that the right to recover costs is
purely statutory, and, in the absence of an authorizing statute, no costs can
be recovered by either party.”].) 
 
3.    
Electronic Documents
 
Section 1033.5(a)(15) regarding the
costs for the hosting of any electronic documents states that this code section
“shall become inoperative on January 1, 2022.” A judge had discretion under
section 1033.5(c)(4) to award a prevailing party the costs it incurred in
responding to the opposing party’s requests for electronic discovery.
 
The issue is whether it was necessary,
not merely convenient, for Avalon to use an electronic discovery vendor
instead of providing the 64,500 pages of emails in native format. The brief is
answer is no, and Avalon’s own arguments but support that determination. First
and foremost, Avalon argues that the cost of the Relativity platform was
necessitated by Plaintiffs’ “abusive and threatening discovery tactics,” (Opp.
p. 4:9-10), but that in and of itself indicates that Plaintiffs did not require
or force Avalon to convert the emails to PDF format and to use the
Relativity platform in incur the $21,277.50.[4] Instead,
what Plaintiffs asked was for Avalon to identify the bates numbers of the
documents which are responsive to which document request, which is what the
Code of Civil Procedure § 2031.280(a) requires. (Reply p. 5.) Second, the fact
that Plaintiffs did not need to use the platform but underscores the lack of
necessity in using these third-party vendors. (See Reply p. 4:15-18.) 
 
The court directs the parties to Hooked
Media Group, Inc. v. Apple (2020) 55 Cal.App.5th 323 as it appears to be
the only California case discussing the issue. There, the appellate court
affirmed trial court’s ruling to deny Apple’s bill of costs which included
$92,000 in e-discovery expenses claimed by Apple
for the conversion of native electronic files into usable form.  The
costs did not include any internal costs or any attorney or
paralegal costs. (Id. at p. 338-339.) Similarly, here, the
costs do not appear to include any of internal costs or any attorney or
paralegal costs. 
 
Ultimately, absent evidence
that Plaintiffs’ Counsel refused Avalon to produce the documents as they are
kept in the regular course of business or refused to allow Avalon to produce
the emails in their native format, Avalon, as the objecting party, failed to
meet it burden to show that the cost is recoverable. 
 
Therefore, Item
15 for fees for the alleged court-ordered hosting of electronic documents in
the sum of $21,277.50 should be stricken in its entirety.
 
Conclusion
 
Based on the
foregoing, Item 1 is granted/denied in part; Item 9 for transcripts is
stricken; Item 15 is stricken. 
 
 
 
 


