 Case Number:  23TRCV02548    Hearing Date:   August 9, 2024    Dept:  8 Tentative
Ruling¿ 
¿¿ 
HEARING DATE:                 August 9, 2024¿¿ 
¿¿ 
CASE NUMBER:                   23TRCV02548
¿¿ 
CASE NAME:                        Katelyn Dow Stepanyan
v. General Motors LLC, et al. 
¿¿ 
MOVING PARTY:                Defendant, General Motors, LLC
 
RESPONDING PARTY:        Plaintiff, Katelyn Dow Stepanyan 
¿¿ 
TRIAL DATE:                       Not
Set   
¿¿ 
MOTION:¿                              (1) Demurrer¿ 
(2) Motion to Strike 
¿ 
Tentative Rulings:                  (1) SUSTAINED as the fraudulent
concealment and UCL causes of action. 
Leave to amend will depend on what additional or new allegations
Plaintiff represents can be truthfully added.
(2) MOOTED
 
¿ 
 
 
I. BACKGROUND¿¿ 
¿¿ 
A. Factual¿¿ 
¿ 
On August 7,
2023, Plaintiff, Katelyn Dow Stepanyan (“Plaintiff”) filed a Complaint against
Defendant, General Motors, LLC and DOES 1 through 20 (“GM”). On February 21,
2024, this Court SUSTAINED the previous demurrer as to the original complaint
and also ruled that the motion to strike portions of the original complaint was
mooted by the sustaining of the demurrer. 
 
On March 21,
2024, Plaintiff filed a First Amended Complaint (“FAC”) alleging causes of
action for: (1) Fraud – Concealment; (2) Business & Professions Code §
17200; (3) Song-Beverly Act – Breach of Express Warranty; (4) Song-Beverly
Consumer Warranty Act – breach of Implied Warranty; and (5) Song-Beverly
Consumer Warranty Act – Civil Code § 1793.2(b). 
 
Now, Defendant
GM has filed another Demurrer and Motion to Strike as to the FAC. 
            
B. Procedural¿¿ 
 
On April 22, 2024, Defendant,
GM filed a Demurrer and Motion to Strike. On July 29, 2024, Plaintiff filed
opposition papers. On August 2, 2024, Defendant, GM filed a reply brief. 
 
 
 
¿II. ANALYSIS¿ 
¿ 
A. Demurrer 
¿ 
A demurrer can be used only to challenge
defects that appear on the face of the pleading under attack or from matters
outside the pleading that are judicially noticeable. (Blank v. Kirwan
(1985) 39 Cal.3d 311, 318.) “To survive a demurrer, the complaint need only
allege facts sufficient to state a cause of action; each evidentiary fact that
might eventually form part of the plaintiff’s proof need not be alleged.” (C.A.
v. William S. Hart Union High School Dist. (2012) 53 Cal.4th 861, 872.) For
the purpose of testing the sufficiency of the cause of action, the demurrer
admits the truth of all material facts properly pleaded. (Aubry v. Tri-City
Hospital Dist. (1992) 2 Cal.4th 962, 966-967.) A demurrer “does not admit
contentions, deductions or conclusions of fact or law.” (Daar v. Yellow Cab
Co. (1967) 67 Cal.2d 695, 713.)¿¿¿ 
¿¿ 
A pleading is uncertain if it is
ambiguous or unintelligible. (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subd. (f).) A demurrer
for uncertainty may lie if the failure to label the parties and claims renders
the complaint so confusing defendant cannot tell what he or she is supposed to
respond to.¿ (Williams v. Beechnut Nutrition Corp. (1986) 185 Cal.App.3d
135, 139, fn. 2.) However, “[a] demurrer for uncertainty is strictly construed,
even where a complaint is in some respects uncertain, because ambiguities can
be clarified under modern discovery procedures.” (Khoury v. Maly's of
California, Inc. (1993) 14 Cal.App.4th 612, 616.)¿¿ 
 
Fraud, Concealment, and Misrepresentation 
 
As this Court has previously ruled on a
demurrer by GM as to Plaintiff’s original complaint, in the interest of
brevity, the Court will forgo analyzing the motion in the same level of
extensiveness as the previous tentative ruling. GM still argues that
Plaintiff’s fraud causes of action fail because Plaintiff did not plead fraud
with the requisite specificity. Specifically, GM argues Plaintiff failed to
identify a material fact regarding the Subject Vehicle that GM concealed or
suppressed, including: (1) failing to identify the individual at GM who
purportedly concealed material facts or made untrue representations about her
Bolt; (2) their authority to speak and act on behalf of GM; (3) GM’s knowledge
about the alleged defects in Plaintiff’s vehicle at the time of sale; (4) any
interactions with GM before or during the purchase of her vehicle; or (5) GM’s
intent to induce reliance by Plaintiff to purchase the specific vehicle at
issue. 
 
As noted in the Court’s previous tentative
ruling on the demurrer to the original complaint, this Court explained – in
great detail – that the requirements listed above are required for fraudulent
misrepresentation, not fraudulent concealment. One of the issues identified by this
Court about Plaintiff’s original complaint was that Plaintiff failed to specify
whether it was moving on a cause of action for fraudulent misrepresentation or fraudulent
concealment. Since then, Plaintiff has amended her FAC to indicate that she is
moving on a cause of action for fraudulent concealment. As noted previously, “[t]he
elements of a cause of action for fraudulent concealment are: (1) concealment
of a material fact; (2) by a defendant with a duty to disclose; (3) the
defendant intended to defraud by failing to disclose; (4) plaintiff was unaware
of the fact and would not have acted as it did had it known the fact; and (5)
damages.” (Butler America, LLC v. Aviation Assurance Company, LLC (2020)
55 Cal.App.5th 136, 144.) The facts constituting the alleged fraud must be
alleged factually and specifically as to every element of fraud, as the policy
of “liberal construction” of the pleadings will not ordinarily be invoked. (Lazar v. Superior Court (1996) 12
Cal.4th 631, 645.) 
 
Next, this Court notes that when it
came to Plaintiff’s allegations in the original complaint, this Court
previously held that although the original complaint alleged all required
elements for fraudulent concealment, crucial information was still missing. Further,
as previously noted, Pursuant to California law, a duty to disclose material
facts may arise (1) when the defendant is in a fiduciary relationship with the
plaintiff; (2) when the defendant has exclusive knowledge of material facts not
known to the plaintiff; (3) when the defendant actively conceals a material
fact from the plaintiff; or (4) when the defendant makes partial
representations but also suppresses some material facts. (Falk v. General
Motors Corp. (N.D. Cal. 2007) 496 F.Supp.2d 1088, 1098-1099 citing LiMandri
v. Judkins (1997) 52 Cal.App.4th 326.) Specifically, Plaintiff argues, in
her opposition, that the Complaint contains allegations supporting that
Defendant GM had exclusive knowledge.
Duty to Disclose
 
As this Court noted in its previous
tentative, absent a fiduciary relationship between the parties, a duty to
disclose can arise in only three circumstances: (1) the defendant had exclusive
knowledge of the material fact; (2) the defendant actively concealed the
material fact; or (3) the defendant made partial representations while also
suppressing the material fact. (BiglerEngler v. Breg, Inc. (2017) 7
Cal.App.5th 276, 311; LiMandri v. Judkins (1997) 52 Cal.App.4th 326,
336.) Again, GM argues that Plaintiff’s first cause of action fails as a matter
of law because Plaintiff did not identify a material fact regarding the Subject
Vehicle that GM concealed or suppressed. 
 
Plaintiff’s opposition argues that she
sufficiently alleged Defendant’s knowledge of the Battery Defect because, she
alleges, GM knew this information through its exclusive knowledge of non-public
information such as pre-release reviews and testing, customer satisfaction
notices, software updates, internal investigations, and recalls as early as
2017.  In her FAC, Plaintiff did allege
that Martin Chevrolet in Torrance California, where she purchased the vehicle, is
an authorized dealership of GM. (FAC, ¶ 8.) Further, Plaintiff has also added that
GM possessed both superior and exclusive knowledge regarding the defect through
various means including, but not limited to, customer complaints, internal
investigations, and internal testing, NHTSA reports. (SAC, ¶¶ 33, 45.) However,
despite these allegations, the FAC also includes further allegations that prior
to Plaintiff’s purchase of the vehicle, GM had customer complaints, customer
service satisfaction, releasing new software updates, and recalls, etc. (FAC,
¶¶ 13-24.) As such, it is not clear how the information regarding the alleged
defect was exclusive to GM.  NHTSA
reports and recall campaigns are available to the public. Nothing in the FAC
indicates that Plaintiff made specific inquiries as to potential defects, or the
battery specifically, nor that only a partial disclosure or active concealment occurred
in response. There are also no allegations in the FAC that Plaintiff previously
made inquiries on her own, prior to going to the dealership or purchasing the
vehicle, nor in doing research on the NHTSA website. As such, the FAC is
contradictory as to the exclusive or superior knowledge issue. 
 
Nonetheless, this Court will allow oral
argument as to what addition fats can be alleged to overcome the fatal
inconsistency between public disclosure of defect in an NHTSA recall campaign and
in TSBs n the one hand, and a cause of action asserting that GM failed to
disclose those same facts at the point of sale. There is no duty for a manufacturer
to disclose the contents of a TSB or a recall campaign at the point of sale in
this context.  This Court believes the
creation of such a duty seems better left to the policy-making branches of
government rather than the judiciary. Such a claimed duty seems to implicate
balancing the burden that would be placed on manufacturers of such a broad duty
against the perceived value that disclosures of such a wide array of
information might yield for consumers. The law already recognizes a duty to
recall or retrofit (see, e.g., Hernandez v. Badger Construction Equipment Co.
(1994) 28 Cal.App.4th 1791, 1827; Lunghi v. Clark Equipment Co. (1984)
153 Cal.App.3d 485, 494), but such a cause of action requires harm in the form
of personal injury rather than the economic losses alleged in the FAC here.
(The Court is mindful that a claim for fraudulent inducement by concealment is
not subject to demurrer on the ground it is barred by the economic loss rule,
pending a decision by the California Supreme Court on certified question from
the Ninth Circuit and on petition for review of Dhital v. Nissan North
America, Inc. (2022) 84 Cal.App.5th 828.)
Violation of Business and Professions Code §
17200
 
Again, GM also demurs to the Plaintiff’s cause
of action for Violation of Business and Professions Code § 17200. To set forth
a claim for a violation of Business and Professions Code section 17200 (“UCL”),
Plaintiff must establish Defendant was engaged in an “unlawful, unfair or
fraudulent business act or practice and unfair, deceptive, untrue or misleading
advertising” and certain specific acts. (Bus. & Prof. Code, § 17200.) A
cause of action for unfair competition “is not an all-purpose substitute for a
tort or contract action.” (Cortez v. Purolator Air Filtration Products Co.
(2000) 23 Cal.4th 163, 173.) 
 
For
the same reasons above, Plaintiff fails to adequately plead a cause of action
for fraud. Because Plaintiff’s second cause of action is based on fraud, this
cause of action is sustained as well.
A.    Motion to Strike 
 
Any party, within the time allowed to respond to
a pleading may serve and file a notice of motion to strike the whole or any
part thereof. (Code Civ. Proc., § 435, subd. (b)(1).) The court may, upon a
motion, or at any time in its discretion, and upon terms it deems proper,
strike any irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted in any pleading.
(Code Civ. Proc., § 436, subd. (a); Stafford v. Shultz (1954) 42 Cal.2d
767, 782 [“Matter in a pleading which is not essential to the claim is
surplusage; probative facts are surplusage and may be stricken out or
disregarded”].) The court may also strike all or any part of any pleading not
drawn or filed in conformity with California law, a court rule, or an order of
the court. (Code Civ. Proc., § 436, subd. (b).) An immaterial or irrelevant
allegation is one that is not essential to the statement of a claim or defense;
is neither pertinent to nor supported by an otherwise sufficient claim or
defense; or a demand for judgment requesting relief not supported by the allegations
of the complaint. (Code Civ. Proc., § 431.10, subd. (b).) The grounds for
moving to strike must appear on the face of the pleading or by way of judicial
notice. (Code Civ. Proc., § 437.)¿¿ 
 
Here, GM again
bases its Motion to Strike Plaintiff’s prayer for Punitive Damages on the
argument that Plaintiff has not plead the fraud cause of action with the
specificity required. Plaintiff’s prayer for punitive damages, and Defendant’s
argument against it, are intrinsically intertwined with the fraud causes of
action, and as such, the Court’s ruling as to the Motion to Strike is
determined by the Court’s ruling of the demurrer. The Motion to Strike is thus
Mooted.  
 
IV.
CONCLUSION¿¿ 
¿¿¿ 
For the foregoing reasons, Defendant’s Demurrer is SUSTAINED.
Plaintiff will be allowed to provide oral argument as to Plaintiff’s ability to
sufficiently allege these causes of action in future amended pleadings. Additionally,
Defendant’s Motion to Strike is MOOTED. 
¿¿¿ 
GM is ordered to give notice.
 
 
 