  Case Number:  20STCV09554    Hearing Date:   August 9, 2024    Dept:  8 Tentative
Ruling¿ 
¿¿ 
HEARING DATE:                 August 9, 2024 
¿¿ 
CASE NUMBER:                   20STCV09554 [consolidated case:
20STCV35557]
¿¿ 
CASE NAME:                        Maria Lopez; Martin Gonzalez v. Matrix Service, Inc., et
al. 
¿¿ 
MOVING PARTY:                 Defendant, Matrix
Service, Inc
 
RESPONDING PARTY:        Plaintiffs, Christian Gonzalez, by and through his Guardian
Ad Litem, Sonia Soto and Maria Lopez and Martin Gonzalez
¿¿ 
TRIAL DATE:                        September
9, 2024
¿¿ 
MOTION:¿                              (1) Motion for Summary Judgment, or in the alternative, Summary
Adjudication 
                                                
Tentative Rulings:                  (1)  ARGUE.
 
 
             
I. BACKGROUND¿¿ 
¿¿ 
A.    Factual¿¿ 
 
On
March 6, 2020, Plaintiffs Maria Lopez and Martin Gonzalez (“Parent Plaintiffs”)
filed a complaint against Defendants, Matrix Service, Inc., Brandon K. Austin,
PBF Energy Limited, Christian Martin Gonzalez, Sonia Jasmin Soto, and DOES 1
through 50 in the leading case. On May 8, 2020, Plaintiffs, Maria Lopez and
Martin Gonzalez filed a First Amended Complaint (“FAC”) alleging causes of action
for: (1) Negligence – Wrongful Death; (2) Strict Liability – Product Liability;
and (3) Professional Negligence. 
 
Shortly
after, on September 17, 2020, in the consolidated case, Plaintiffs, Sonia Soto,
individually and successor-in-interest to The Estate of Gamaliel Gonzalez,
Jayden Salas, by and through his Guardian Ad Litem, Sonia Soto, Christian
Gonzalez, by and through his Guardian Ad Litem, Sonia Soto (“Soto Plaintiffs”)
filed a complaint. The complaint alleges causes of action for: (1) Negligence;
(2) Strict Products Liability; and (3) Breach of Warranties. 
 
Defendant,
Matrix Services, Inc. (“Matrix”) filed a Motion for Summary Judgment, or in the
alternative, Motion for Summary Adjudication on the grounds that it argues that
Soto Plaintiffs and Parent Plaintiffs causes of action for negligence, strict
liability, and breach of warranties asserted in their pleadings provide no
triable issues of material fact as to such causes of action, thereby entitling
Matrix to judgment as a matter of law. 
 
 
B.   
Procedural 
 
On May 24, 2024, Matrix filed a Motion for Summary Judgment or, in
the alternative, Motion for Summary Adjudication. On July 25, 2024, Soto
Plaintiffs and Parent Plaintiffs filed a joint opposition brief. On July 29,
2024, Soto Plaintiffs and Parent Plaintiffs filed a notice of Errata
Opposition. On August 2, 2024, Matrix filed a reply brief. 
 
II. ANALYSIS¿ 
 
A.   
Legal
Standard 
 
The function of a motion for summary judgment
or adjudication is to allow a determination as to whether an opposing party
cannot show evidentiary support for a pleading or claim and to enable an order
of summary dismissal without the need for trial. (Aguilar v. Atlantic
Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 843.) CCP Section 437(c) “requires the
trial judge to grant summary judgment if all the evidence submitted, and ‘all
inferences reasonably deducible from the evidence’ and uncontradicted by other
inferences or evidence, show that there is no triable issue as to any material
fact and that the moving party is entitled to judgment as a matter of law.”¿ (Adler
v. Manor Healthcare Corp. (1992) 7 Cal.App.4th 1110, 1119.)¿ “The function
of the pleadings in a motion for summary judgment is to delimit the scope of
the issues; the function of the affidavits or declarations is to disclose
whether there is any triable issue of fact within the issues delimited by the
pleadings.”¿ (Juge v. County of Sacramento (1993) 12 Cal.App.4th 59, 67,
citing FPI Development, Inc. v. Nakashima (1991) 231 Cal. App. 3d 367,
381-382.)¿ 
 
As to each claim as framed by the
complaint, the defendant moving for summary judgment must satisfy the initial
burden of proof by presenting facts to negate an essential element, or to
establish a defense. (CCP § 437c(p)(2); Scalf v. D. B. Log Homes, Inc. (2005)
128 Cal.App.4th 1510, 1520. ) Courts “liberally construe the evidence in
support of the party opposing summary judgment and resolve doubts concerning
the evidence in favor of that party.”¿ (Dore v. Arnold Worldwide, Inc.¿(2006)
39 Cal.4th 384, 389.)¿ 
 
Once the defendant has met that burden,
the burden shifts to the plaintiff to show that a triable issue of one or more
material facts exists as to that cause of action or a defense thereto.¿¿¿ 
 
To establish a triable issue of material
fact, the party opposing the motion must produce substantial responsive
evidence. (Sangster v. Paetkau (1998) 68 Cal.App.4th 151, 166.) 
 
B.   
Summary
Judgment Discussion 
 
                                              
i.         
Soto
Plaintiffs’ Standing Issue 
 
First, Matrix argues that the Soto Plaintiffs
lack standing on the grounds that Sonia Soto is not the putative spouse of
Decedent as a matter of law, and therefore, lacks standing to assert the causes
of action for Negligence, Strict Products Liability, and Breach of Warranties.
The Court requires oral argument from both parties on this issue as it does not
see anything in the opposition brief that addresses the standing issue. The
moving papers submit deposition testimony from Sonia Soto as well as requests
for admission that she knew she was not married to decedent, was aware of facts
inconsistent with a rational belief in a valid or lawful marriage, including
that she and decedent were saving money for her to be able to pay for a
divorce, and have a civil ceremony with the decedent. These facts remain
undisputed, and thus, the Court is inquiring whether Sonia Soto is conceding
this fact. 
 
However, the issue of standing of both
Jayden Salas and Giancarlo Salas are still at issue. The Court seeks oral
argument from both of the parties on this issue as Soto Plaintiffs’ opposition
also failed to address these issues. 
 
                                            
ii.         
Misuse
and Foreseeable Misuse Affirmative Defenses
 
As to the misuse issue, the Court
tentatively finds that Matrix carried its initial burden on summary judgment as
to the complete defense of misuse.  Matrix
carried its initial burden by illustrating to this Court that the drawings
included the instructions for the user to “field tack
weld bar to base plate [of jack stand] for bottle jack retention,” and did not
include any indication for the use of airbags with the subject jack stand.
(Matrix’s SSUMF Nos. 63-64.) Further, Matrix submitted opinions of three
different professional engineers bearing on the lack of foreseebioity of the use
of a jackstand without a bottle jack or airbag including: (1) Andrew Yearwood
(“Yearwood”), who opined that “[w]here design specification drawings for
a product include in them the manner in which the product is to be used or
other devices to which the product is to be used with, the intended and
reasonably foreseeable use of such product is derived from that which is
contained within the design drawings.” (Declaration of Andrew Yearwood
(“Yearwood Decl.”), ¶¶ 10-13); (2) Dough Bayles (“Bayles”), the
designer of the Hagen Exemplar Drawings, which Austin used as the basis for the
design of the subject jack stand and which also specified the use of a bottle
jack, opined that “the jack stands are intended to be used with the load
at the base, with top plate in contact with the load being moved” and that it
would be contrary to use an airbag where the designs call for a bottle jack
(Watts Decl., Ex. 40 [Bayles Depo. (Vol. 1) 17:8 - 21:9], Ex. 42 [Bayles Depo.
(Vol. 3) at 255:18 - 256:11, 300:5-21, 351:2 - 352:6], Ex. 43 [Bayles email]);
and (3) Austin, who noted in his deposition that he would have expected
that the subject jack stand that he designed would have been used with a bottle
jack because it was on his drawings. 
 
            However, this Court also tentatively
finds that Plaintiffs have carried their shifted burden in raising triable
issues of fact that a jury needs to decide as to whether the use of the jack
stand with the airbag and without a bottle jack would have been reasonably
foreseeable. Plaintiffs’ evidence includes other portions of the Austin
deposition, where he had discussions of the use of an inflatable airbag on top
of the top plate of the subject jack stand that was being designed, and that
Austin had heard about the application of a jackstand plus airbag combination being
used in other industries. Austin also stated in deposition that he knew Tussey
was wanting to put an airbag on top of the top plate and between the load being
lifted, but he did not communicate in writing to anyone that such a combination
should not be employed. 
 
Plaintiffs
have also cited to the deposition of Kennith Erdmann,
the designated PMK for Matrix, who happens to be an engineer and employee of
another division of Matrix Parent Company. Erdmann confirmed in his deposition
that Matrix NAC had used air bags in combination with jack stands previously
for the purpose of lifting floating roofs – the task at issue in this case.
(Plaintiff’s Ex. B, 22:1-5, 41:20-25, 44:2-11.) Erdmann’s deposition indicates
to this Court that since Matrix has previously used airbags with jack stands in
the past for the purpose of lifting floating roofs, that J.T. Thorpe and
Decedent’s use of the Matrix jack stand in combination with an airbag could found
by a reasonable juror to be a reasonably foreseeable use as such use. 
 
                                          
iii.         
Jack
Stand Component Part Defect
 
The next issue the Court has identified
is whether Matrix has carried its burden on the issue of whether the jack stand
itself had a defect. Matrix has argued that the jack stand itself was not
defective, but that when used incorrectly (with an air bag), such misuse was
the cause of the incident in the case at bar. The Court tentatively finds that
Matrix has carried its initial burden as well on this issue for similar reasons
as cited above. 
 
In their opposition, Plaintiffs argue
that the causation issue is not the airbags, but was the allegedly defective
hitch ball that was a component part of the jack stand itself. The Court tentatively
finds that Plaintiffs have carried their shifted burden by reference to the EAG
Labs Report and Dial Engineering Report (Moving Papers, Exhibits 52 and 53),
that were cited to by Matrix expert Yearwood. Plaintiff further notes and
relies on their experts, Eric Deyerl, M.S., P.E. (“Deyerl”) and Michael Neff,
SM, P.E. (“Neff”), who have opined that Matrix used a deficient hitch ball and
attachment method, comprising the jack stand’s strength and contributing to its
failure.  While the Court recognizes that
Matrix has submitted over 50 pages of evidentiary objections for the Court to
rule on, the Court has not yet made its rulings but will do so after taking
oral argument on the other issues.  
 
As to Plaintiffs’ expert evidence submitted
in opposition to this motion, Deyerl opined that “by placing the weld where
they did (on the nut), because the upper section of the ball was not directly
connected to the ram end plate, Matrix had exposed the shank of the hitch ball
to loads being applied to the ball during the use of the jack stand.” (Deyerl
Decl., ¶ 13e.) Deyerl further opined that “stress calculations by Dial
Engineering indicate that had Matrix selected one of two other commercially
available hitch balls which were stronger…the ball would have been much less
likely to have deformed under loads.” (Deyerl Decl., ¶¶ 13d, 13f.) Deyerl’s
declaration indicates that a different area where the hitch ball should have
been welded – around the circumference of the shoulder of the ball and states
that “had Matrix made this circumferential weld connection with one of the
stronger commercially available balls, it would have prevented that ball from
fracturing under loads applied by JT Thorpe crew and thus prevented Mr.
Gonzalez’s fatal injuries.” (Deyerl Decl., ¶¶
13e-13f.) He concluded that “the selection and connection of the hitch
ball to the jack stand by Matrix rendered the subject jack stand defective due
to its inability to withstand more than a fraction of its rated 20- ton load
before failing during normal and foreseeable use by the Thorpe crew. (Deyerl
Decl. ¶ 14c.)
 
In
Matrix’s reply they point out that Plaintiffs’ former allegation that the
alleged defect of the subject jack stand’s inability to withstand ‘side
loading’ is completely gone, and that Deyerl’s declaration stating that he
“disagree[s] that such side loading had anything to do with the failure of the
ball itself,” is now being relied on because a greater amount of horizontal
(side) loads/rotational forces are imparted on the jack stand via the use of
the air bag, despite Matrix maintaining it had no knowledge J.T. Thorpe would
use an airbag with the subject jack stand, and that this use was entirely out
of Matrix’s control. 
 
            This Court will hear oral argument
from the parties as to Matrix’ reply argument that Plaintiff should be barred from
changing its theory of defect when opposing a summary judgment motion as compared
to what had been previously alleged in the pleadings.  The operative complaint does contain allegations
of component part defect and of manufacturing or design defects.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 