  Case Number:  23STCV22726    Hearing Date:   March 7, 2024    Dept:  37 HEARING DATE:                 Thursday, March 7, 2024
CASE NUMBER:                   23STCV22726
CASE NAME:                        DSS Risk Consultants, LLC v. ArentFox
LLP, et al. 
MOVING PARTY:                 Defendants DSS Equity Holdings,
Inc., Dorna Brown, and Trent Brown
OPPOSING PARTY:             Plaintiff DSS
Risk Consultants, LLC
TRIAL DATE:                        Not Set
PROOF
OF SERVICE:           OK

                                                                                                                                                            

PROCEEDING:                      Demurrer with Motion to
Strike
OPPOSITION:                        23 February 2024
REPLY:                                  29
February 2024
 
TENTATIVE:
                        Defendants’ demurrer is sustained in part as to
the first cause of                                                           action
for conversion, second cause of action for breach of                                                                 contract,
and sixth cause of action for violation of Bus. & Prof.                                                           Code
§ 1700 et seq. and overruled as to the fifth cause of action                                                      for unjust enrichment. Defendants’
motion to strike is granted                                                         with leave
to amend. 
 
                                                Plaintiff
is granted 30 days leave to amend. OSC re: Amended                                                        Complaint set
for __. 
                                                Defendants
to give notice. 

                                                                                                                                                            

 
Background
 
On
September 19, 2023, DSS Risk Consultants, LLC (“Plaintiff”) filed a Complaint
against ArentFox Schiff LLP; DSS Equity Holdings, Inc.; DB Nevada Trust; Dorna
Brown; Trent Brown, and Does 1 to 50. 
 
The
operative Complaint alleges six causes of action for (1) conversion, (2) breach
of contract, (3) breach of fiduciary duty, (4) violation of Fin. Code § 17414,
(5) unjust enrichment, and (6) violation of Bus. & Prof. Code § 17200 et
seq. 
 
On February 1, 2024, Defendants DSS
Equity Holdings, Inc., Dorna Brown, and Trent Brown (collectively “Defendants”)
filed a demurrer with a motion to strike Plaintiff’s Complaint. Plaintiff
opposes the Motion. The matter is now before the court.
 
request
for JUDICIAL notice
 
The Court may
take judicial notice of records of any court of record of the United States.
(Evid. Code, § 452(d)(2).) However, the court may only judicially notice the
existence of the record, not that its contents are the truth. (Sosinsky v.
Grant (1992) 6 Cal.App.4th 1548, 1565.) 
 Plaintiff
requests judicial notice of the following: 
1)     July
11, 2023, Complaint in Brown v. Arent Fox Schiff LLP, Case No.
2023CUPN011223, in the Superior Court of California, County of Ventura,
attached as Exhibit A.
 
Plaintiff’s
request for judicial notice is granted. 
 
Discussion
 
I.         Legal Standard
 
A.        Demurrer 
 
A demurrer is an
objection to a pleading, the grounds for which are apparent from either the
face of the complaint or a matter of which the court may take judicial notice.
(CCP § 430.30(a); see also Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311, 318.)¿“To
survive a demurrer, the complaint need only allege facts sufficient to state a
cause of action; each evidentiary fact that might eventually form part of the
plaintiff’s proof need not be alleged.”¿(C.A. v. William S. Hart Union High
School Dist. (2012) 53 Cal.4th 861, 872.)¿For the purpose of
testing the sufficiency of the cause of action, the demurrer admits the truth
of all material facts properly pleaded.¿ (Aubry v. Tri-City Hospital Dist. (1992)
2 Cal.4th 962, 966-967.)¿A demurrer “does not admit contentions, deductions or
conclusions of fact or law.”¿(Daar v. Yellow Cab Co. (1967) 67
Cal.2d 695, 713.)¿¿ 
 
B.        Motion to Strike 
 
¿Any party, within the time allowed to respond to a pleading
may serve and file a notice of motion to strike the whole or any part thereof.
(CCP § 435(b)(1); CRC, rule 3.1322(b).) The court may, upon a motion or at any
time in its discretion and upon terms it deems proper: (1) strike out any
irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted in any pleading; or (2) strike
out all or any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity with the
laws of California, a court rule, or an order of the court. (CCP, § 436(a)-(b);
Stafford v. Shultz (1954) 42 Cal.2d 767, 782 [“Matter in a pleading
which is not essential to the claim is surplusage; probative facts are
surplusage and may be stricken out or disregarded”].)¿¿¿¿ 
 
C.        Leave to Amend 
 
“Where the defect raised by a motion to strike or by demurrer
is reasonably capable of cure, leave to amend is routinely and liberally
granted to give the plaintiff a chance to cure the defect in question.” (CLD
Construction, Inc. v. City of San Ramon (2004) 120 Cal.App.4th 1141, 1146.)
The burden is on the complainant to show the Court that a pleading can be
amended successfully. (Goodman v. Kennedy (1976) 18 Cal.3d 335, 348.)¿¿¿ 
 
II.        Demurrer[1]
 
A.        The
Court has the Discretion to Consider the Defendants’ Demurrer and                                     Motion to
Strike
 
Defendants
assert that they met and conferred with Plaintiff’s counsel regarding this
demurrer and motion to strike on November 29, 2023. (Boock Deck. ¶ 2, Ex. A.) 
 
Defense
counsel asserts that on December 19, 2023, Plaintiff agreed to grant Defendants
an extension until December 22, 2023, for Defendants to file and serve this
demurrer and motion to strike. (Supp. Boock Decl. ¶ 2.) On December 22, 2023,
Defendants served and filed the demurrer and supporting documents but despite
receiving a filing confirmation, Defendants failed to notice that the demurrer
and motion to strike were rejected by the court because Defendant had not paid
the proper fee. (Id. ¶ 3, Ex. 1.) Defense counsel asserts that through
mistake, inadvertence, and/or excusable neglect, they confused this action with
a similar action involving the same parties in Ventura County in which the fees
had already been paid. (Id. ¶ 4.) Since the pleadings were filed during
the December holidays, Defense counsel did not learn that this Motion and the
Motion to Strike were rejected by the court after filing until January 2024. (Id.
¶ 5.) On February 1, 2024, Defendants re-filed and re-served the demurrer and
motion to strike, explaining to Plaintiff that the documents most recently
filed were the ones initially served in December but due to an error in the
appearance fee, were not being reserved and refiled. (Id. ¶ 6, Ex. 2.) 
 
Plaintiff
opposes the demurrer and the motion to strike on the basis that they were
untimely served and filed. Plaintiff fails to show that it was unduly
prejudiced by the Defendants’ error. “Contrary to
plaintiff's argument, the trial court
had discretion to consider defendant's untimely demurrer.”
(Jackson v. Doe (2011) 192 Cal.App.4th 742, 749.) First, the language of CCP
§ 430.40 is permissive, not mandatory, because it uses the term “may” rather
than “must.” (See McAllister v. County of
Monterey (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 253, 279.)
Second, “‘[t]here is no absolute right to have a pleading stricken for lack of
timeliness in filing where no question of jurisdiction is involved, and where,
as here, the late filing was a mere irregularity [citation]; the granting or
denial of the motion is a matter which lies within the discretion of the
court.’ [Citation.]” (Id. at pp. 281-282.) Accordingly, “[t]he trial
court may exercise this discretion so long as its action does ‘not affect the
substantial rights of the parties.’ [Citation.]” (Id. at p. 282.) Lastly, pursuant to CCP
§ 473(a), the court may “increase the time for filing a demurrer in furtherance of justice and on any terms
that may be proper” so long as it does not affect the Plaintiff’s “
‘substantial rights’ where plaintiff did not take steps to obtain a default
judgment or demonstrate the delay prejudiced her.” (Jackson, supra,
192 Ca.App.4th at p. 750.) 
 
Here, the court exercises its discretion to consider the
Defendants’ demurrer and motion to strike on the merits. 


            B.        Summary of Allegations in Complaint
 
In 2021, Paul Philips’ (“Philips”) company, DSS
Risk Consultants, LLC (“Plaintiff” or “DSS”) bought a small risk management
company called Development Solutions and Services LLC (the “company”) from DDS
Equity Holdings Inc., which is owned by Dorna Brown (“Defendants”). (Compl. ¶¶
1, 2, Ex. A, B.) ArentFox Schiff LLP, through its partner Ira J. Deitsch,
represented the Defendants, while Philips, who is not an attorney, represented
himself. (Compl. ¶ 4.) 
 
“The
parties agreed that the final purchase price of DSS would be determined through
a multi-step process that considered the profitability of DSS in the first
twelve months following the acquisition. ArentFox established an escrow account
to hold a portion of the DSS purchase funds that, under the purchase agreement,
might be refundable depending on the final purchase price.” (Compl. ¶ 6.) To
induce Plaintiff to buy the company, $1,169,950 was held in escrow so that one
year after the sale was completed, the final value of the company could be
determined, and the purchase price could be discounted. (Compl. ¶ Ex. A §§ 1,
3(h)(i)–(iii); Ex. C (Dec. 7, 2021, escrow release letter agreement).) ArentFox
acted as the escrow agent in the transaction. (Compl. ¶ 8, Ex B §6(i)(1).)
 
“The
Escrow Agreement provided that the escrow funds may be disbursed only by court
order or a joint payment instruction signed by both Plaintiff and Ms. Brown or
their attorneys. (Compl. ¶ 10, Ex. B §4(a)-(b).) In December 2021, the parties
agreed to reduce the escrow to $1,005,000 but the escrow agreement remained “in
full force and effect with respect to the balance of the Escrow Amount.”
(Compl. ¶ 11, Ex. C.) Nevertheless, in November 2022, Defendants instructed
ArentFox to disburse the escrow fund to Defendants, and ArentFox did so,
disregarding the Escrow Agreement and without telling Plaintiff. (Comp. ¶ 12.) 
 
In April 2023, Plaintiff, not knowing the escrow
funds had been disbursed, asked Defendants to sign a joint written instruction
telling ArentFox to release the funds to Plaintiff per the Escrow Agreement,
but Defendants refused. (Compl. ¶ 13.) Weeks later, Defendants’ attorney
informed Plaintiff that the escrow funds had been disbursed and none remained.
(Compl. ¶ 13.) 
 
Plaintiff filed suit against the Defendants and Defendants
now demurrer to all the causes of action alleged against them, including the
first cause of action for conversion, second cause of action for breach of
contract, fifth cause of action for unjust enrichment, and sixth cause of
action for violation of Bus. & Prof. Code section 17200, et seq. 
 
            C.        Defendants’ Demurrer to Entire Complaint
 
Defendants demurrer to the entire Complaint on
the basis there are no facts alleging wrongful conduct by Defendants that
support the causes of action alleged against them because the only wrongdoing alleged
was by Defendant ArentFox. 
 
However, the court notes that Defendant Trent
Brown is alleged to have been the one who instructed ArentFox to disburse the
escrow funds. (Compl. ¶ 12.) The Complaint alleges that Trent Brown (“Brown”)
is Dorna Brown’s son, that he is a partner at the accounting firm Deloitte
& Touche LLP, and that he “helped” in the transaction between the parties.
(Compl. ¶ 2.) Plaintiff also in a conclusory manner, without specific facts,
alleges that “Defendants DSS Equity Holdings, Inc.,
DB Nevada Trust, Dorna Brown, and Trent Brown are alter egos of one another.”
(Compl. ¶ 22.) The Complaint also alleges that Phillips discussed amendments to
the Membership Interest Purchase Agreement (“MIPA”) with Mr. Brown and that he
agreed to the final version of the contract. (Compl. ¶ 26.) 
 
The
court may not consider contentions, deductions, or conclusions of fact or law.
(Moore v. Conliffe (1994) 7 Cal.App.4th 634, 638.) Accordingly,
Plaintiff’s alter ego allegations fail because they are a legal conclusion,
devoid of facts. Because a demurrer tests the legal sufficiency of a complaint,
the plaintiff must show that the complaint alleges facts sufficient to
establish every element of each cause of action. (Rakestraw v. California
Physicians Service (2000) 81 Cal.App.4th 39, 43.) Here, Plaintiff fails to
allege facts to show that Defendant Brown acted as an agent of Defendants DSS
Equity Holdings, Inc. and Dorna Brown. “[F]acts not alleged are presumed not
exist.” (Schick v. Lerner (1987) Cal.App.3d 1321, 1327.) Plaintiff fails
to allege what ostensible or apparent authority Brown had that made Plaintiff
think that Dorna Brown and DSS Holdings, Inc. acquiesced to Brown being their
agent. (See Flores v. Evergreen at San Diego, LLC (2007) 148 Cal.App.4th
581, 587-588 [Conduct by the principal is essential to create an agency
relationship or some intentional or negligent conduct by the principal that
created the belief that that an agency relationship exists].) Similarly,
Plaintiff fails to allege how Defendants DSS Equity Holdings, Inc. and Dorna
Brown ratified ArentFox’s conduct of releasing the escrow funds. 
 
                        i.          First Cause of Action – Conversion
 
To plead a cause of action for conversion, one must allege
(1) the plaintiff’s ownership or right to possession of personal property; (2)
defendant’s disposition of the property inconsistent with plaintiff’s rights;
and (3) resulting damages. (Fremont Indemnity Co. v. Fremont General Corp.
(2007) 148 Cal.App.4th 97, 119.) “Money may be the subject of conversion if the claim
involves a specific, identifiable sum . . . .” (WelcoElectronics, Inc. v.
Mora (2014) 223 Cal.App.4th 202, 209.) 
 
Plaintiff’s
Complaint alleges that ArentFox released the escrow funds to Defendants “which
constituted a conversion of a specific sum earmarked for Plaintiff based on the
parties’ agreement to adjust the purchase price of the business based on the
post-closing accounting.” (Compl. ¶ 49.) “Defendants wrongfully converted the
escrow funds.” (Compl. ¶ 50.) 
 
As
stated above, Plaintiff failed to allege facts sufficient to show that
Defendant Brown acted as an agent of Defendants Dorna Brown and DSS Holdings,
Inc. and that Defendants ratified ArentFox’s conduct. Moreover, Plaintiff
states in a conclusory manner that the conversation claim is for a “specific
sum” without providing the specific sum that was converted. 
 
Accordingly,
the demurrer to the first cause of action is sustained with leave to amend. 
 
                        ii.         Second Cause of Action – Breach of
Contract
 
“To
prevail on a cause of action for breach of contract, the plaintiff must prove
(1) the contract, (2) the plaintiff’s performance of the contract or excuse for
nonperformance, (3) the defendant’s breach, and (4) the resulting damage to the
plaintiff. [Citation.]” (Richmond v. Hartley (2014) 224 Cal.App.4th
1182, 1186.)
 
The
Complaint alleges that on October 1, 2021, Plaintiff and Defendant DSS Equity
Holdings, Inc. entered into the Membership Interest Purchase Agreement (“MIPA”)
and an Escrow Agreement. (Compl. ¶¶ 10, 53, 54, Ex. B. “The Escrow Agreement
states that the escrow funds could be disbursed in only two circumstances: upon
ArentFox’s receipt of a court order or joint written instructions signed by
both the buyer and seller.” (Compl. ¶¶ 10, 55, Ex. B § 4(a)-(b.)
 
The
Complaint alleges that Defendant Brown acted on behalf of the other Defendants
by instructing ArentFox to disburse the escrow funds to an account controlled
by Defendants despite Brown and ArentFox being aware of the terms of the Escrow
Agreement. (Compl. ¶¶ 57, 58, 59.) As the Complaint did not allege sufficient
facts to show that Brown was an agent of Defendants DSS Equity Holdings, Inc.
and Dorna Brown, such that the latter Defendants could be held liable for
Brown’s conduct, the breach of contract claims against the Defendant fails.
Only Defendant DSS Equity Holdings, Inc. and ArentFox are parties to the Escrow
Agreement. (Compl. Ex. B.) More importantly, only ArentFox had the obligation
to disburse the funds according to the terms of the Escrow Agreement. (Compl.
Ex. B §4.) Accordingly, per the terms of the Escrow Agreement, only ArentFox
had the contractual duty to disburse the funds according to the Escrow
Agreement and only ArentFox breached that duty. 
 
Accordingly,
the demurrer to the second cause of action is sustained with leave to amend. 
 
                        iii.       Fifth
Cause of Action – Unjust Enrichment 
 
“Generally,
one who is unjustly enriched at the expense of another is required to make
restitution. [Citations.] The elements of a cause of action for unjust
enrichment are simply stated as ‘receipt of a benefit and unjust retention of
the benefit at the expense of another.’ ” (Professional Tax Appeal v.
Kennedy-Wilson Holdings, Inc. (2018) 29 Cal.App.5th 230, 238.)
 
The
Complaint alleges that the funds from the escrow were disbursed into an account
controlled by Defendants. (Compl. ¶ 56.) “DSS Equity Holdings and Trent Brown
have been unjustly enriched by wrongfully withholding money from Plaintiff.”
(Compl. ¶ 70.) “Defendants owe Plaintiff the full amount that was in escrow and
all interest accrued from the escrow account.” (Compl. ¶ 72.) 
 
The
court finds that Plaintiff has sufficiently alleged that the escrow
funds were transferred into an account controlled by the Defendants, and
because the funds were disbursed in violation of the terms of the Escrow
Agreement the Defendants' retention of those funds is unjust. (Compl. ¶¶ 55,
56.) Accordingly, the demurrer to the fifth cause of action is overruled. 
 
                        iv.        Sixth Cause of Action – Unfair
Competition 
 
Business and Professions Code § 17200 (“UCL”) prohibits “any unlawful, unfair or
fraudulent business act or practice.”¿(Bus. & Prof. Code, § 17200;¿see
Clark v. Superior Court¿(2010) 50 Cal.4th 605, 610.) To plead this
statutory claim, the pleadings must state with reasonable particularity the
facts supporting the statutory elements of the violation. (Khoury
v. Maly's of California, Inc.¿(1993) 14 Cal.App.4th 612, 619.)¿
 
“An
unlawful business practice or act is an act or practice, committed pursuant to
business activity, that is at the same time forbidden by law.” (Klein v.
Earth Elements, Inc. (1997) 59 Cal.App.4th 965, 969.) “A business practice
is unfair within the meaning of the UCL if it violates established
public policy or if it is immoral, unethical, oppressive or unscrupulous and
causes injury to consumers which outweighs its benefits.” (McKell v.
Washington Mutual, Inc. (2006) 142 Cal.App.4th 1457, 1473.) Lastly, a
fraudulent business practice claim under section 17200 “is not based upon proof
of the common law tort of deceit or deception, but is instead premised on
whether the public is likely to be deceived.” (Pastoria v. Nationwide
Ins. (2003) 112 Cal.App.4th 1490, 1499.) 
 
The
Complaint alleges as follows: 
 
Defendants’ unfair,
unlawful, or deceptive business practices in connection with this transaction
include (without limitation):
 
·       Violating
contracts detailing the process for disbursing funds from escrow; 
·       Giving
over $1 million to Seller Defendants when they had no claim to those funds; and

·       Failing
to inform Plaintiff of the release of all funds in escrow.
 
As a result of these
practices, Plaintiff has been harmed in an amount to be proved at trial but
exceeding $1 million. Plaintiff demands restitution of these sums.
 
(Compl.
¶¶ 76, 77.) 
 
As
Plaintiff’s agency and alter ego allegations are not sufficiently pled,
Plaintiff fails to show that Trent Brown and Dorna Brown can be held liable for
violating the Escrow Agreement when they were not parties to that agreement.
The Complaint also fails to plead the UCL claim with specificity as there is no
allegation that Defendants, other than ArentFox, gave away the money from the
escrow funds. Defendants assert that per the terms of the Escrow Agreement,
only ArentFox and not Defendants had the authority to release of the funds.
(Compl. Ex. B § 4(a)-(b).) Accordingly, by releasing the funds without
complying with the Escrow Agreement, it was ArentFox and not Defendants that
breached the Escrow Agreement. Plaintiff
also fails to explain why Defendants had a duty to inform Plaintiff that the
escrow funds had been disbursed. Lastly, Plaintiff must allege the applicable
under each of the prongs of the UCL and explain whether the offending conduct
falls under the unfair, unlaw, or deceptive prong of the UCL.
 
Based on the above, the demurrer to the sixth
cause of action is sustained with leave to amend.  
 
III.      Motion to Strike
 
Defendants
move to strike the following from Plaintiff’s Complaint: 
 
·      
“It seeks compensatory and punitive
damages, as well as attorney fees and costs.’ (Compl., ¶ 14); 
·      
“Plaintiff asks the Court for ...
punitive damages...” (Compl., ¶ 64);
·      
“Punitive damages.” (Compl., Claim for
Relief, ¶ 78); and
·      
 “Attorney fees.” (Compl., Claim for Relief, ¶
78)
 
To state a claim for punitive damages under Civ.
Code § 3294, a plaintiff must allege specific facts showing that the defendant
has been guilty of malice, oppression or fraud. (Smith v. Superior Court
(1992) 10 Cal. App. 4th 1033, 1042.)¿ The basis for punitive damages must be
pled with specificity; conclusory allegations devoid of any factual assertions
are insufficient. (Ibid.)¿¿“Malice” is defined in Civ. Code § 3294
(c)(1) as “conduct which is intended by the defendant to cause injury” or
“despicable conduct which is carried on by the defendant with a willful and
conscious disregard of the rights or safety of others.” “Oppression” is defined
as “despicable conduct subjecting a person to cruel and unjust hardship in
conscious disregard of that person’s rights.” (Civ. Code § 3294(c)(2).) The
term “despicable” has been defined in the case law as actions that are “base,”
“vile,” or “contemptible.” (Shade Foods, Inc. v. Innovative Products Sales
& Marketing, Inc. (2000) 78 Cal.App.4th 847, 891.) Fraud means “an
intentional misrepresentation, deceit, or concealment of a material fact known
to the defendant with the intention on the part of the defendant of thereby
depriving a person of property or legal rights or otherwise causing injury.”
(Civ. Code § 3294(c)(3). 
 
Plaintiff asserts that because it pleads a
conversion claim, the Complaint states a viable claim for punitive damages. The
demurrer to the conversion claim, however, has been sustained. Moreover,
Plaintiff must also plead malice, fraud, or oppression by each of the
individual defendants to support a claim for punitive damages. In Haigler v. Donnelly (1941)
18 Cal.2d 674, the California Supreme Court
awarded punitive damages to the plaintiff because the conversion claim arose as
“the result of a fraudulent scheme to secure plaintiffs' money by
means of trickery and deliberate falsehood. Such action constitutes
‘oppression, fraud, or malice’ within the meaning of section 3294 of the Civil
Code.” (Id. at p. 681–682.) Here, there are
no facts alleged sufficient to find that Defendants acted with malice, fraud,
or oppression. 
 
Finally, while Plaintiff alleges that under the MIPA, Plaintiff
can recover attorney’s fees, Plaintiff does not allege a violation of the MIPA
but only of the Escrow Agreement. Plaintiff fails to show that under the Escrow
Agreement Plaintiff can recover attorney’s fees. Moreover, the facts as alleged
are insufficient to show that Plaintiff can recover attorney’s fees from Trent
Brown and Dorna Brown who are not parties to the Escrow or MIPA agreement. 
 
Accordingly, the motion to strike is granted with leave to amend. 
 
Conclusion
 
Defendants’ demurrer
is sustained in part as to the first cause of action for conversion, second
cause of action for breach of contract, and sixth cause of action for violation
of Bus. & Prof. Code § 1700 et seq. and overruled as to the fifth cause of
action for unjust enrichment. Defendants’ motion to strike is granted with
leave to amend. 
 
Plaintiff is granted
30 days leave to amend. OSC re: Amended Complaint set for __. 
Defendants to give
notice. 


