 Case Number:  24STCP00454    Hearing Date:   October 1, 2024    Dept:  86 MOTION TO COMPEL
COMPLIANCE WITH SUBPOENA
 
Date:               10/1/24
(1:30 PM)
Case:               Laurent Ruben v. Ikspan, Inc.
(24STCP00454)
  
TENTATIVE
RULING:
 
Plaintiff Laurent Ruben’s Motion to Compel Compliance with
Subpoena is GRANTED. 
 
Plaintiff Laurent Ruben moves for an order compelling
non-party Pessah Law Group, PC (“PLG”) to comply with a deposition subpoena
seeking the following seven categories of documents, which appear to seek the same
documents in items two and three:
 
1.     
All DOCUMENTS, WRITINGS and COMMUNICATIONS in the
IKSPAN LAWSUIT, regarding payout of settlement funds to IKSPAN, INC.
 
2.     
A copy of any SETTLEMENT AGREEMENT(s) or any other
written agreement to resolve the IKSPAN LAWSUIT, between Plaintiff IKSPAN, INC.
and any named DEFENDANT in the IKSPAN LAWSUIT.
 
3.     
A copy of any SETTLEMENT AGREEMENT(s) or any other
written agreement to resolve the IKSPAN LAWSUIT, between Plaintiff IKSPAN, INC.
and any named DEFENDANT in the IKSPAN LAWSUIT.
 
4.     
Any and all DOCUMENT, WRITING and COMMUNICATIONS
reflecting the amount of money, funds, or non-financial payout to IKSPAN, INC.
that any DEFENDANT agreed to give or pay IKSPAN, INC. in the IKSPAN LAWSUIT.
 
5.     
Any and all DOCUMENT, WRITING and COMMUNICATIONS
reflecting the identity of the recipient of funds paid out to IKSPAN, INC. in
the IKSPAN LAWSUIT.
 
6.     
Any and all DOCUMENTS and WRITINGS showing or
demonstrates any transfer from YOUR trust account to Guillaume Zarka.
 
7.     
Any and all DOCUMENTS and WRITINGS showing or
demonstrates any money received for INKSPAN, INC., or Guillaume Zarka from the
IKSPAN LAWSUIT.
 
(Lozoya Decl. ¶ 9 & Ex. 3.) The requested documents are
relevant to the instant litigation. Plaintiff alleges that he is a 50%
shareholder in the defendant and dissolved corporation Ikspan, Inc. (“Ikspan”).
(Compl. ¶¶ 3, 8.) Plaintiff suspects that Ikspan received recovery from a
lawsuit it commenced against plaintiff and others. (Compl. ¶¶ 11, 16.) Plaintiff
contends that he is entitled to 50% of any settlement from that lawsuit as a
50% shareholder of Ikspan. (Compl. ¶¶ 15, 21(a), 22, 26, 29(a).) Accordingly,
documents reflecting the payment of settlement funds to Ikspan, including the
settlement agreement and documents reflecting Ikspan’s receipt of monetary
proceeds therefrom, are reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of
admissible evidence. Even if some of the terms of the settlement agreement are
not strictly necessary to ascertain whether any payment was made to Ikspan,
plaintiff may obtain discovery regarding any matter that “appears reasonably
calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence.” (CCP § 2017.010.)
Further, plaintiff is entitled to issue a subpoena to PLG rather than propound
discovery on Ikspan. Indeed, as default was entered against Ikspan on 4/24/24,
Ikspan cannot be expected to respond to any discovery from plaintiff.  Nor would plaintiff have much recourse
against a defaulted Ikspan if it were to fail to respond to any discovery
demand.
 
The requests, however, do implicate Ikspan’s right to
financial privacy. “Although corporations have a lesser right to privacy than
human beings and are not entitled to claim a right to privacy in terms of a
fundamental right, some right to privacy exists.” (Roberts v. Gulf Oil Corp. (1983) 147 Cal.App.3d 770,
796.) Even so, “the constitutional right to privacy is not absolute.
[Citations.] It may be outweighed by supervening concerns. [Citation.]” (Palay
v. Superior Court (1993) 18 Cal.App.4th 919, 933.) “When the right to
discovery conflicts with a privileged right, the court is required to carefully
balance the right of privacy with the need for discovery. [Citations.]” (Harris
v. Superior Court (1992) 3 Cal.App.4th 661, 665.) Here, any concerns
regarding financial privacy are adequately addressed with a protective order. (See,
e.g. CCP § 1987.1 [allowing court to direct compliance with subpoena
subject to protective order].) Consequently, plaintiff’s discovery rights
outweigh Ikspan’s right to financial privacy. 
 
To the extent that certain responsive documents are
protected by the attorney-client privilege or work product doctrine, PSG may
serve a privilege log of the type required by CCP § 2031.240(c)(1), as
opposed to making a blanket objection based on privilege and failing to comply
with the subpoena in toto. “A privilege log must identify with particularity
each document the responding party claims is protected from disclosure by a
privilege and provide sufficient factual information for the propounding party
and court to evaluate whether the claim has merit.” (Catalina Island Yacht
Club v. Superior Court (2015) 242 Cal.App.4th 1116, 1130, citing CCP §
2031.240(b), (c) and Wellpoint Health Networks, Inc. v. Superior Court
(1997) 59 Cal.App.4th 110, 130.) “The precise information required for an
adequate privilege log will vary from case to case based on the privileges
asserted and the underlying circumstances. In general, however, a privilege log
typically should provide the identity and capacity of all individuals who
authored, sent, or received each allegedly privileged document, the document's
date, a brief description of the document and its contents or subject matter
sufficient to determine whether the privilege applies, and the precise
privilege or protection asserted.” (Catalina, 242 Cal.App.4th at 1130.) For
example, while communications solely between Ikspan’s Chief Executive Officer
(Guillaume Zarka) and PLG (encompassed within Request Nos. 1, 4, 5, and 6)
certainly could be protected by the attorney-client privilege (Evid. Code §§
952, 954), communications falling within those numbered requests between PSG,
on the one hand, and non-clients or other defendants in the prior Ikspan lawsuit,
on the other hand, would not be privileged. 
So, too, any communications between Zarka and PLG, which were copied to
a third party, may not be privileged.
 
Plaintiff’s contention that PLG’s invocation of privilege is
defeated by the crime fraud exception is meritless.  It is true that “the privilege protecting
confidential attorney-client communications is lost if the client seeks legal
assistance to plan or perpetrate a crime or fraud.” (BP Alaska Exploration,
Inc. v. Superior Court (1988) 199 Cal.App.3d 1240, 1249, citing Evid. Code
§ 956.) However, the “mere assertion of fraud is insufficient; there must be a
showing the fraud has some foundation in fact.” (BP Alaska, 199
Cal.App.3d at 1262.) Plaintiff fails to present any evidence demonstrating that
Ikspan retained or used the services of PSG to perpetuate a fraud. Further,
plaintiff fails to show any fraud occurred because plaintiff fails to
demonstrate that any misrepresentation was made upon which plaintiff relied. (BP
Alaska, 199 Cal.App.3d at 1263 [“We conclude that because section 956
applies where an attorney's services are sought to enable a party to plan to
commit a fraud, the proponent of the exception need only to prove a false
representation of a material fact, knowledge of its falsity, intent to deceive
and the right to rely”].) Plaintiff also fails to show that any fraudulent
transfer occurred because he fails to show that Ikspan, the client, transferred
any payment from a settlement “with actual intent to hinder, delay, or defraud”
plaintiff or that Ikspan did not receive a “reasonably equivalent value” in
exchange for any transfer. (See Civ. Code §§ 3439.04(a), 3439.05.) Plaintiff
merely suspects that Ikspan received settlement proceeds. (Compl. ¶¶ 13, 16
[alleging that plaintiff is entitled to 50% of Ikspan’s recovery, “if any”].)
Without more, plaintiff’s assertion of fraud lacks foundation and is insufficient
to pierce any privilege. 
 
Based on the foregoing, plaintiff’s motion is GRANTED,
subject to (1) the issuance of a protective order to be prepared by plaintiff
and (2) Pessah Law Group, PC being allowed to serve a privilege log.  Pessah Law Group, PC is ordered to comply with
the subpoena, dated May 1, 2024, within 15 days hereof. 
 
The Court declines to impose any monetary sanctions. Considering
plaintiff’s baseless assertion that the crime fraud exception renders PLG’s
claims of attorney-client privilege inapplicable and his apparent failure to
recognize that his blunderbuss requests that clearly encompass communications
between a client and its counsel may impinge upon the attorney-client
privilege, the Court finds that PLG was entitled to object to the subpoena and
had substantial justification to oppose the instant motion. 