  Case Number:  23STCP00041    Hearing Date:   October 1, 2024    Dept:  86 MOTION TO SUPPLEMENT
ADMINISTRATIVE RECORD
 
Date:               9/26/24
(1:30 PM)
Case:               Mr. Earnest A. Davis v. Los
Angeles County Child Support Services
(23STCP00041)
  
TENTATIVE RULING:
            
Petitioner Earnest A. Davis’s UNOPPOSED Motion to Augment
Record is GRANTED CONDITIONALLY. 
 
Petitioner seeks to
augment the administrative record, asserting that a photograph revealing the
race of his custodial daughter is missing from the administrative record. (Mtn.
at 2:1-28; Davis Decl. ¶¶ 21, 25, 31, 34, 36, 43, 45, 46.) Petitioner, however,
did not file any proof of service pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure § 1013a
indicating that he served the motion on respondent Los Angeles County Child
Support Services Department.  As service
is required by Code of Civil Procedure § 1005(b), the motion could be denied on
that basis.
 
However, three court
days before the hearing, respondent filed a “Non-Opposition and Response to
Petitioner’s Motion to Augment the Record.” 
The filing of this non-opposition, albeit extremely untimely, would
suggest that respondent was served the motion or, at the very least, received
some form of notice of it.  Insofar as
respondent received timely notice of the motion and hearing, the Court
admonishes respondent for the untimely filing and notes that the Court may
disregard its untimely filings in the future. (See Cal. Rules of Court,
rule 3.1300(d) [“[I]f the court, in its discretion, refuses to consider a late
filed paper, the minutes or order must so indicate”].)  Under the circumstances, however, the Court
exercises its discretion to consider respondent’s untimely filing.  
 
Respondent does not
oppose petitioner’s request to augment the record insofar as petitioner seeks
to include a photograph of petitioner’s daughter purportedly submitted by
petitioner to the State, Kern County, or Los Angeles County and referenced
during the administrative hearing.  As
pointed out by respondent, however, petitioner fails to include with his motion
the material(s) with which he hopes to augment the record.
 
In light of the
foregoing, the Court CONDITIONALLY GRANTS petitioner’s motion, subject to his
filing and serving a proposed order permitting him to augment the record with the
material(s) attached to the proposed order. 
If there is a valid proof of service of the proposed order upon
respondent and no objection to the order received from respondent within ten
(10) days of service, the Court will sign the proposed order. 
 