 Case Number:  21STCV05456    Hearing Date:   February 2, 2024    Dept:  29 Motion to Set Aside Default and Default Judgment filed by
Defendant City of Los Angeles.
 
Tentative
The motion is granted.
Background
On February 10, 2021, Douglas Castellanos and
Juian Holloman (collectively “Plaintiffs”) filed a complaint against City of
Los Angeles and Does 1 through 20 for the causes of action of General
Negligence and Premise Liability stemming from a motor vehicle accident
occurring on February 10, 2019. 
On October 4, 2022, the Court granted Plaintiffs’
request to correct the complaint to name City of Vernon as a defendant in place
of City of Los Angeles.  But on April 19,
2023, Plaintiffs brought City of Los Angeles back into the case, naming the
City of Los Angeles as Doe 2.
On October 5, 2023, Plaintiffs filed a proof
of service showing personal service of the summons and complaint on an
authorized agent of City of Los Angeles in June 2023.  Also on October 5, 2023, a default was
entered against City of Los Angeles (“Defendant”).
On January 5,
2024, Defendant filed this motion to set aside default and default judgment. 
No opposition
has been filed.
Legal Standard
Code of Civil Procedure section 473.5 states:
“(a) When service of a summons has not
resulted in actual notice to a party in time to defend the action and a default
or default judgment has been entered against him or her in the action, he or
she may serve and file a notice of motion to set aside the default or default
judgment and for leave to defend the action. The notice of motion shall be
served and filed within a reasonable time, but in no event exceeding the
earlier of: (i) two years after entry of a default judgment against him or her;
or (ii) 180 days after service on him or her of a written notice that the
default or default judgment has been entered.
(b) A notice of motion to set aside a default
or default judgment and for leave to defend the action shall designate as the
time for making the motion a date prescribed by subdivision (b) of Section
1005, and it shall be accompanied by an affidavit showing under oath that the
party’s lack of actual notice in time to defend the action was not caused by
his or her avoidance of service or inexcusable neglect. The party shall serve
and file with the notice a copy of the answer, motion, or other pleading proposed
to be filed in the action.
(c) Upon a finding by the court that the
motion was made within the period permitted by subdivision (a) and that his or
her lack of actual notice in time to defend the action was not caused by his or
her avoidance of service or inexcusable neglect, it may set aside the default
or default judgment on whatever terms as may be just and allow the party to
defend the action.”
“The court may, upon any terms as may be
just, relieve a party or his or her legal representative from a judgment,
dismissal, order, or other proceeding taken against him or her through his or
her mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or excusable neglect. Application for this
relief shall be accompanied by a copy of the answer or other pleading proposed
to be filed therein, otherwise the application shall not be granted, and shall
be made within a reasonable time, in no case exceeding six months, after the judgment,
dismissal, order, or proceeding was taken…” (Code Civ. Pro., §473, subd. (b).) 
To qualify for relief under section 473,
the moving party must act diligently in seeking relief and must submit
affidavits or testimony demonstrating a reasonable cause for the
default. (Elston v. City of Turlock (1985) 38 Cal.3d 227, 234.) 
“In a motion under section 473 the initial
burden is on the moving party to prove excusable neglect by a “preponderance of
the evidence. [Citations]”” (Kendall v. Barker (1988) 197 Cal.App.3d
619, 624.) “The moving party has a double burden: He must show a satisfactory
excuse for his default, and he must show diligence in making the motion after
discovery of the default.” (Id. at 625.)
Discussion
Defendant requests default entered against it be set
aside under Code of Civil Procedure sections 473.5 and 473(b). 
 
The Court has carefully reviewed the evidence in the
record and the argument presented by Defendant and concludes that Defendant has
shown an adequate basis for the relief requested under Code of Civil Procedure
section 473(b).  Defendant’s counsel has
shown, by counsel’s declaration, that Defendant’s failure to respond to the
complaint, and the subsequent entry of default, was the result of counsel’s mistake.  Moreover, once counsel realized the mistake,
Defendant acted promptly in making this motion.
 
Accordingly, the motion is granted.
 
In light of the above, the Court need not reach, and does
not reach, Defendant’s request to set aside the default under section 473.5.
 
Conclusion
 
The Court GRANTS Defendant’s Motion to Set
Aside Default Judgment.
 
The Default entered on October 5, 2023,
against Defendant City of Los Angeles is SET ASIDE.
 
Moving Party is to give notice.