  Case Number:  23SMCV04158    Hearing Date:   August 14, 2024    Dept:  N TENTATIVE RULINGPlaintiffs/Cross-Defendants Mike Khattab and Nagwa Khattab’s Demurrer to Cross-Complaint Filed by Defendants/Cross-Complainants Ahmedshah Patail and Shams Virjee is SUSTAINED with thirty (30) days leave to amend.Plaintiffs/Cross-Defendants Mike Khattab and Nagwa Khattab’s Motion to Strike Portions of Cross-Complaint is GRANTED as to the request for attorney fees and DENIED as MOOT in all other respects.Defendants/Cross-Complainants Ahmedshah Patail and Shams Virjee may amend their complaint only as authorized by the Court’s order and may not amend the complaint to add a new party or cause of action without having obtained permission to do so. (Harris v. Wachovia Mortgage, FSB (2010) 185 Cal.App.4th 1018, 1023.)Plaintiffs/Cross-Defendants Mike Khattab and Nagwa Khattab to give notice. REASONINGLegal Standard“[A] demurrer tests the legal sufficiency of the allegations in a complaint.” (Lewis v. Safeway, Inc. (2015) 235 Cal.App.4th 385, 388.) A demurrer can be used only to challenge defects that appear on the face of the pleading under attack or from matters outside the pleading that are judicially noticeable. (See Donabedian v. Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994 [in ruling on a demurrer, a court may not consider declarations, matters not subject to judicial notice, or documents not accepted for the truth of their contents].) For purposes of ruling on a demurrer, all facts pleaded in a complaint are assumed to be true (Aubry v. Tri-City Hosp. Dist. (1992) 2 Cal.4th 962, 967), but the Court does not “assume the truth of contentions, deductions, or conclusions of fact or law” (Moore v. Regents of University of California (1990) 51 Cal.3d 120, 125).Further, the court may, upon motion, or at any time in its discretion, and upon terms it deems proper, strike any irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted in any pleading. (Code Civ. Proc., § 436, subd. (a).) The court may also strike all or any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of this state, a court rule, or an order of the court. (Code Civ. Proc., § 436, subd. (b).) The grounds for a motion to strike are that the pleading has irrelevant, false, or improper matter, or has not been drawn or filed in conformity with laws. (Code Civ. Proc., § 436.) The grounds for moving to strike must appear on the face of the pleading or by way of judicial notice. (Code Civ. Proc., § 437.)Leave to amend must be allowed where there is a reasonable possibility of successful amendment. (See Goodman v. Kennedy (1976) 18 Cal.3d 335, 349 [court shall not “sustain a demurrer without leave to amend if there is any reasonable possibility that the defect can be cured by amendment”]; Kong v. City of Hawaiian Gardens Redevelopment Agency (2002) 108 Cal.App.4th 1028, 1037 [“A demurrer should not be sustained without leave to amend if the complaint, liberally construed, can state a cause of action under any theory or if there is a reasonable possibility the defect can be cured by amendment.”]; Vaccaro v. Kaiman (1998) 63 Cal.App.4th 761, 768 [“When the defect which justifies striking a complaint is capable of cure, the court should allow leave to amend.”].) The burden is on the complainant to show the Court that a pleading can be amended successfully. (Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311, 318.)First Cause of Action: Cancellation of InstrumentCivil Code section 3412 provides that “[a] written instrument, in respect to which there is a reasonable apprehension that if left outstanding it may cause serious injury to a person against whom it is void or voidable, may, upon his application, be so adjudged, and ordered to be delivered up or canceled.” “To prevail on a claim to cancel an instrument, a plaintiff must prove (1) the instrument is void or voidable due to, for example, fraud; and (2) there is a reasonable apprehension of serious injury including pecuniary loss or the prejudicial alteration of one’s position.” (U.S. Bank National Association v. Naifeh (2016) 1 Cal.App.5th 767, 778.)In the first cause of action, Defendants/Cross-Complainants Ahmedshah Patail and Shams Virjee (“Defendants”) seek cancellation of their withdrawals from Midvale LLC and Tabor LLC because the withdrawals are void due to not receiving consideration for the withdrawals. (Cross-Compl. ¶¶ 12, 13, 17, 24.) Notably, Defendants have alleged only that the withdrawals are void due to lack of consideration and that Plaintiffs/Cross-Defendants Mike Khattab and Nagwa Khattab (“Plaintiffs”) had no intention of making a good faith offer to Defendants, but it is not clear that consideration was required for the withdrawals to be effective. (See Corp. Code, § 17706.02.) The nature of Defendants’ apprehension of injury is also not sufficiently stated, as Defendants provide only a conclusory statement in this regard. (Compl. ¶ 25.) Accordingly, Plaintiffs’ demurrer to the first cause of action is SUSTAINED with thirty (30) days leave to amend. Second Cause of Action: Accounting“A cause of action for an accounting requires a showing that a relationship exists between the plaintiff and defendant that requires an accounting, and that some balance is due the plaintiff that can only be ascertained by an accounting. An action for accounting is not available where the plaintiff alleges the right to recover a sum certain or a sum that can be made certain by calculation.” (Teselle v. McLoughlin (2009) 173 Cal.App.4th 156, 179, citations and paragraph break omitted.)In the second cause of action, Defendants allege that Plaintiffs prevented them from equal management of Tabor LLC and Midvale LLC, they failed to provide accurate statements of accounts and failed to accurately allocate profits to Defendants, and Plaintiffs have refused to render an accounting. (Cross-Compl. ¶¶ 27-29.) It is not clear that an accounting is proper here because Defendants’ claim for breach of fiduciary duty implies that Defendants’ harm can be made certain by calculation. Thus, Plaintiffs’ demurrer to the second cause of action is SUSTAINED with thirty (30) days leave to amend.Third Cause of Action: Breach of Fiduciary Duty“The elements of a cause of action for breach of fiduciary duty are the existence of a fiduciary relationship, breach of fiduciary duty, and damages.” (Oasis West Realty, LLC v. Goldman (2011) 51 Cal.4th 811, 820.)Defendants allege that Plaintiffs owed them a fiduciary duty as co-members of limited liability companies, and Defendants breached those duties by failing to provide statements, accurately allocated and report profits and losses, and pay Defendants their share of the profits. (Cross-Compl. ¶¶ 32-33.) The nature of the duty owed to Defendants by Nagwa Khattab is not clear, as Defendants have stated only that she was provided with a notice of withdrawal and no other specific facts. (Cross-Compl. ¶ 13.) For this reason, Plaintiffs’ demurrer to the third cause of action is SUSTAINED with thirty (30) days leave to amend.Motion to StrikeAn award of attorney’s fees is proper when authorized by contract, statute, or law. (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 1032, subd. (b), 1033.5, subd. (a)(10).) Defendants assert a prayer for attorney fees, but the basis for such fees is not clear. Thus, Plaintiffs/Cross-Defendants Mike Khattab and Nagwa Khattab’s Motion to Strike Portions of Cross-Complaint is GRANTED as to the request for attorney fees and DENIED as MOOT in all other respects.