 Case Number:  23SMCV05524    Hearing Date:   August 14, 2024    Dept:  N TENTATIVE RULINGPlaintiff Joseph Golshan’s Motion to Amend the Judgment to Add Nonparties Alter Egos as Judgment Debtors is DENIED.Plaintiff Joseph Golshan to give notice. REASONINGRequest for Judicial NoticePlaintiff Joseph Golshan (“Plaintiff”) requests judicial notice of 22 records, including documents filed with the Secretary of State relating to Defendant Shangri-LA Capital, LLC, 180 Sanbord LP, 1030 Fairview LP, 1130 Broadway Street LP, 12 Conejo LP, Shangri-LA Development, LLC, Shangri-LA Industries LLC, Shangri-LA Construction, LP, and SLI Management LLC, as well as court records in this action. While Plaintiff’s request is not properly formatted, as Plaintiff fails to state the basis for taking judicial notice of the identified documents, Plaintiff’s request is GRANTED pursuant to Evidence Code section 452, subdivisions (c) and (d).Plaintiff also requests judicial notice of a court record from Los Angeles Superior Court Case No. 24STCV02847 (World Mechanical, Inc. v. Holmes). Plaintiff’s request again is not properly formatted, as Plaintiff only cites the judicial notice statutes generally, but Plaintiff’s request is GRANTED pursuant to Evidence Code section 452, subdivision (d).Analysis“Code of Civil Procedure section 187 authorizes a trial court to amend a judgment to add judgment debtors.” (Postal Instant Press, Inc. v. Kaswa Corp. (2008) 162 Cal.App.4th 1510, 1517. “Judgments may be amended to add additional judgment debtors on the ground that a person or entity is the alter ego of the original judgment debtor.” (Hall, Goodhue, Haisley & Barker, Inc. v. Marconi Conference Center Board (1996) 41 Cal.App.4th 1551, 1555.) Amending a judgment to add an additional judgment debtor on an alter ego basis “is an equitable procedure based on the theory that the court is not amending the judgment to add a new defendant but is merely inserting the correct name of the real defendant. Such a procedure is an appropriate and complete method by which to bind new defendants where it can be demonstrated that in their capacity as alter ego of the corporation they in fact had control of the previous litigation, and thus were virtually represented in the lawsuit.” (Ibid., ellipses omitted.) “The decision to grant an amendment in such circumstances lies in the sound discretion of the trial court,” but such amendments are liberally allowed “in order to see that justice is done.” (Greenspan v. LADT, LLC (2010) 191 Cal.App.4th 486, 508, quotation marks omitted.)The first requirement for disregarding the corporate entity under the alter ego doctrine—whether there is sufficient unity of interest and ownership that the separate personalities of the individual and the corporation no longer exist—encompasses a series of factors. Among the many factors to be considered in applying the doctrine are one individual’s ownership of all stock in a corporation; use of the same office or business location; commingling of funds and other assets of the individual and the corporation; an individual holding out that he is personally liable for debts of the corporation; identical directors and officers; failure to maintain minutes or adequate corporate records; disregard of corporate formalities; absence of corporate assets and inadequate capitalization; and the use of a corporation as a mere shell, instrumentality or conduit for the business of an individual. This list of factors is not exhaustive, and these enumerated factors may be considered with others under the particular circumstances of each case. No single factor is determinative, and instead a court must examine all the circumstances to determine whether to apply the doctrine. . . .The second requirement for application of the alter ego doctrine is a finding that the facts are such that adherence to the fiction of the separate existence of the corporation would sanction a fraud or promote injustice. The test for this requirement is that if the acts are treated as those of the corporation alone, it will produce an unjust or inequitable result.(Misik v. D’Arco (2011) 197 Cal.App.4th 1065, 1073, citations and quotation marks omitted.)Plaintiff moves the Court for an order amending the judgment in this action to add nonparty alter egos Cody Holmes (“Holmes”) and Andrew Meyers Abdul-Wahab (“Meyers”) as judgment debtors. Plaintiff argues that Defendant Shangri-LA Capital, LLC (“Shangri-LA”) operated as a unified enterprise or instrumentality with Holmes and Meyers, and those individuals have stripped Defendant Shangri-LA Capital, LLC of its assets to an extent that it cannot satisfy the judgment.Plaintiff provides evidence that Meyers was Shangri-LA’s manager/member and officer identified in Shangri-LA’s 2015 Statement of Information and in the Certificate of Cancellation filed on November 21, 2016. (Mot., Reiss Decl. ¶¶ 5, 6, Exs. B, C.) Shangri-LA then entered into a lease agreement to rent the subject property from Plaintiff, and the lease was signed by Holmes acting on behalf of Shangri-LA. (Mot., Golshan Decl. ¶¶ 4, 5, Ex. 1.) The lease was personally guaranteed by Meyers. (Mot., Golshan Decl. ¶ 6, Ex. 2.) Meyers submitted a rental application as the tenant stating that he was employed by Shangri-LA Industries, LLC as its CEO earning $200,000, listing Holmes as his supervisor or HR Manager and stating that Holmes was his nearest relative. (Mot., Golshan Decl. ¶7, Ex. 3.) Plaintiff argues that the legal effect of these actions was that Holmes and Meyers were acting as partners having joint and several liability under the lease. Plaintiff also represents that the property was used as Holmes’ home from the time the lease was executed in June 2022 until he vacated the property on February 19, 2024. (Mot., Golshan Decl. ¶ 10.)The Court finds there is no basis to amend the judgment here. As to Holmes, there is insufficient evidence to conclude that he is or was the alter ego of Shangri-LA. The evidence provided by Plaintiff shows that Meyers only was the manager/member and officer of Shangri-LA. While Holmes is identified in Meyers’ application as his supervisor or HR manager, this does not compel a conclusion that Holmes and Shangri-LA were alter egos of one another. As to Meyers, Plaintiff again provides insufficient evidence that Meyers is or was Shangri-LA’s alter ego, as documents showing his involvement with Shangri-LA years before Holmes entered into the lease and years before initiation of this action are not sufficient to show that Meyers and Shangri-LA were one in the same at the time of the conduct at issue. Insofar as Plaintiff argues that Meyers entered into a lease, a guaranty is not a lease; it is a guaranty, i.e., a separate document guaranteeing that payments would be made. This means that Meyers would be liable for breach of a guaranty, but Plaintiff did not bring that cause of action. It alleged only unlawful detainer, and it did not name Meyers as a party. Plaintiff contends that Meyers knew of Holmes’ conduct and that Shangri-LA entered into a lease despite being a canceled entity, but this does not establish that Meyers is the alter ego of Shangri-LA. Accordingly, Plaintiff Joseph Golshan’s Motion to Amend the Judgment to Add Nonparties Alter Egos as Judgment Debtors is DENIED.