 Case Number:  23STCV10822    Hearing Date:   November 30, 2023    Dept:  14 Instant Motion
 
Plaintiff
now moves this court to issue a preliminary injunction, directing Defendant
Warren to allow Plaintiff access to the storage unit, and forbidding Defendant from
destroying or otherwise disposing of the contents of that unit. 
 
Decision
 
            The motion is DENIED.
 
Governing Law
 
            Code of Civil Procedure § 526 provides in relevant
part as follows:
 
            “(a) An injunction may be granted in the following cases:
(1)
When it appears by the complaint that the plaintiff is entitled to the relief
demanded, and the relief, or any part thereof, consists in restraining the
commission or continuance of the act complained of, either for a limited period
or perpetually.
(2)
When it appears by the complaint or affidavits that the commission or
continuance of some act during the litigation would produce waste, or great or
irreparable injury, to a party to the action.
(3)
When it appears, during the litigation, that a party to the action is doing, or
threatens, or is about to do, or is procuring or suffering to be done, some act
in violation of the rights of another party to the action respecting the
subject of the action, and tending to render the judgment ineffectual.
(4)
When pecuniary compensation would not afford adequate relief.
(5)
Where it would be extremely difficult to ascertain the amount of compensation
which would afford adequate relief.
(6)
Where the restraint is necessary to prevent a multiplicity of judicial
proceedings.
(7)
Where the obligation arises from a trust.
 
(b)
An injunction cannot be granted in the following cases:
(1)
To stay a judicial proceeding pending at the commencement of the action in
which the injunction is demanded, unless the restraint is necessary to prevent
a multiplicity of proceedings.
(2)
To stay proceedings in a court of the United States.
(3)
To stay proceedings in another state upon a judgment of a court of that state.
(4)
To prevent the execution of a public statute by officers of the law for the
public benefit.
(5)
To prevent the breach of a contract the performance of which would not be
specifically enforced, other than a contract in writing for the rendition of
personal services from one to another where the promised service is of a
special, unique, unusual, extraordinary, or intellectual character, which gives
it peculiar value, the loss of which cannot be reasonably or adequately
compensated in damages in an action at law…
(6)
To prevent the exercise of a public or private office, in a lawful manner, by
the person in possession.
(7)
To prevent a legislative act by a municipal corporation.”
 
Code
of Civil Procedure § 527 provides in relevant part as follows:
 
“(a)
A preliminary injunction may be granted at any time before judgment upon a
verified complaint, or upon affidavits if the complaint in the one case, or the
affidavits in the other, show satisfactorily that sufficient grounds exist
therefor. No preliminary injunction shall be granted without notice to the
opposing party.”
 
“A
trial court's decision on whether to grant a preliminary injunction rests on
‘”(i) the likelihood that the party seeking the injunction will ultimately
prevail on the merits of his [or her] claim, and (ii) the balance of harm presented,
i.e., the comparative consequences of the issuance and nonissuance of the
injunction.”’ (Law School Admission Council, Inc. v. State of California
(2014) 222 Cal.App.4th 1265, 1280, quoting Common Cause v. Board
of Supervisors (1989) 49 Cal.3d 432, 441-442).” Saltonstall v. City of
Sacramento (2014) 231 Cal.App.4th 837, 856.
 
Discussion
 
            There is currently no operative complaint in this case.
The court sustained a demurrer to the operative complaint on October 16, 2023.
Plaintiff was given 30 days to amend his complaint. 30 days from October 16,
2023, is November 15, 2023. No amended complaint has been filed. 
 
While
there is a motion for reconsideration pending, the pendency of that motion does
not excuse Plaintiff from his obligation to comply with the court’s orders.
Pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure § 581(f)(2), Defendant Warren is
entitled to a dismissal of the action should they choose to make that motion in
the form called for by California Rules of Court Rule 3.1320(h). In the absence
of an operative complaint and under these circumstances, Plaintiff has no
probability of prevailing and cannot meet his burden on this motion.
 
However,
even if there were an operative complaint, Plaintiff has not provided any admissible
evidence on which the court could base a ruling in his favor. Code of Civil
Procedure § 527(a) requires that an injunction either be supported by a
verified complaint or sworn declarations. Plaintiff’s last complaint was not
verified, and no declarations were submitted with his motion. Therefore, this
court cannot rule in his favor.
 
Conclusion
 

            Because
there is no operative complaint, and motion is not supported by any admissible
evidence, it is DENIED.