 Case Number:  22STCV19629    Hearing Date:   November 30, 2023    Dept:  14 (1)        MTCF RFP
 
            Plaintiffs
now move this court for an order compelling Defendant Regents to make further
responses to their Requests for Production of Documents. Plaintiffs also seek
sanctions in the amount of $4,255.00. 
 
Defendant Regents, in turn, seek
sanctions of $3,500.00.
 
Decision
 
            The motion
is CONTINUED to December 12, 2023. Plaintiff may serve and file reply papers on
or before December 6, 2023. 
 
Governing Statute
 
            Code of
Civil Procedure § 2031.310 provides in relevant part as follows:
 
“(a) On receipt of a response to a
demand for inspection, copying, testing, or sampling, the demanding party may
move for an order compelling further response to the demand if the demanding
party deems that any of the following apply:
(1) A statement of compliance with
the demand is incomplete.
(2) A representation of inability
to comply is inadequate, incomplete, or evasive.
(3) An objection in the response
is without merit or too general.
(b) A motion under subdivision (a)
shall comply with each of the following:
(1) The motion shall set forth
specific facts showing good cause justifying the discovery sought by the
demand.
(2) The motion shall be
accompanied by a meet and confer declaration under Section 2016.040.
…
(c) Unless notice of this motion is
given within 45 days of the service of the verified response, or any
supplemental verified response, or on or before any specific later date to
which the demanding party and the responding party have agreed in writing, the
demanding party waives any right to compel a further response to the demand.
…
(h) …the court shall impose a
monetary sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010) against
any party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to
compel further response to a demand, unless it finds that the one subject to
the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other circumstances
make the imposition of the sanction unjust.”
 
Discussion
 
            Plaintiffs
filed a notice of non-opposition to this motion, indicating that they had not
received an opposition from Defendant Regents, and that one had not been filed.
Consequently, no reply papers were filed. However, Defendant Regents did file
and serve opposition papers on August 15, 2023. The papers themselves, along
with a proof of service, appear in the court’s file. Plaintiffs are entitled to
an opportunity to review and respond to those papers.
 
Conclusion
 
            Because
there was confusion over the service and filing of the opposition papers, and
because someone needs to inquire about the non-party’s willingness to release
their records, the motion is CONTINUED to December 12, 2023. Plaintiff may serve
and file reply papers on or before December 6, 2023. 
 
(2)        MTCF RFA
 
            Plaintiffs
now move this court for an order compelling Defendant Regents to make further
responses to their Requests for Admissions. Plaintiffs also seek sanctions in
the amount of $1,322.50. 
 
Defendant Regents, in turn, seek
sanctions of $1,812.00.
 
Decision
 
            The motion
is DENIED, without prejudice. No sanctions are awarded.
 
Governing Statute
 
            Code of
Civil Procedure § 2033.290 provides in relevant part as follows:
 
(a) On receipt of a response to
requests for admissions, the party requesting admissions may move for an order
compelling a further response if that party deems that either or both of the
following apply:
(1) An answer to a
particular request is evasive or incomplete.
(2) An objection to a particular
request is without merit or too general.
 
(b)(1) A motion under subdivision
(a) shall be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration under Section
2016.040.
…
(c) Unless notice of this motion is
given within 45 days of the service of the verified response, or any
supplemental verified response, or on or before any specific later date to
which the demanding party and the responding party have agreed in writing, the
demanding party waives any right to compel a further response to the demand.
 
(d) The court shall impose a
monetary sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010) against
any party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to
compel further response, unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction
acted with substantial justification or that other circumstances make the
imposition of the sanction unjust.”
 
Discussion
 
            It is
well-established that a plaintiff in a FEHA case may introduce evidence of events
that happened to other, similarly situated employees, even if she did not
witness and was not present in the workplace for those events. See Pantoja
v. Anton (2011) 198 Cal.App.4th 87, 109-122. Case law has long
referred to this as “me too” evidence and permits it on the basis that it is
relevant to show intent under Evidence Code § 1101(b). Id. Since
this evidence is generally admissible, it is also generally discoverable.
 
            However,
this does not necessarily mean that a prospective “me too” witness can be
compelled to release their records, nor does it mean that the evidence
surrounding a “me too” witness is a proper subject for a Request for Admission.
 
            Code of
Civil Procedure § 2033.010 requires that a Request for Admission cover “a
matter that is in controversy between the parties.” Gopi Gopaldas is not a
party to this case. What happened to them is not necessarily in controversy in
this case. Should this person be deposed as a “me too” witness, and should
other witnesses be questioned about her, then a Request for Admission might be ripe.
Until then, it is premature.
 
            No
sanctions are appropriate on this record. The questions may ultimately be
proper, they just aren’t proper yet. 
 
Conclusion
 
            It is
premature to use requests for admissions to seek facts about a prospective “me
too” witness before that witness has agreed to testify or been deposed.
Therefore, the motion is DENIED, without prejudice. No sanctions are
awarded.