  Case Number:  21STCV07006    Hearing Date:   November 30, 2023    Dept:  14 Instant Motion
 
            Defendant
Kirk now moves this court for an order staying this case in its entirety,
pending the resolution of the criminal case against Defendant Kirk.
 
Decision
 
            The motion
is DENIED.
 
Governing Standards
 
Renewed Motions
 
            Code of
Civil Procedure § 1008(b) provides in relevant part as follows:
 
“(b) A party who originally made an
application for an order which was refused in whole or part, or granted
conditionally or on terms, may make a subsequent application for the same order
upon new or different facts, circumstances, or law, in which case it shall be
shown by affidavit what application was made before, when and to what judge,
what order or decisions were made, and what new or different facts,
circumstances, or law are claimed to be shown. For a failure to comply with
this subdivision, any order made on a subsequent application may be revoked or
set aside on ex parte motion.”
 
“The party seeking reconsideration
must provide not just new evidence or different facts, but a satisfactory
explanation for the failure to produce it at an earlier time.” Glade v.
Glade (1995) 38 Cal.App.4th 1441, 1457. This requirement also applies to
new or different law. Baldwin v. Home Sav. Of America (1997) 59
Cal.App.4th 1192, 1200.  New law is authority
arising after the court’s decision, and different law is a principle different
than that originally produced. Id. at 1196-97.
 
Motions to Stay
            
The leading case on how to handle
civil actions with parallel criminal proceedings is Fuller v. Superior Court
(2001) 87 Cal.App.4th 299, 307-308:
 
“Courts faced with a civil defendant
who is exposed to a related criminal prosecution have responded with various
procedural solutions designed to fairly balance the interests of the parties
and the judicial system. Accommodation of the various interests, however, is
usually made to a defendant in a civil action from the standpoint of fairness,
not from any constitutional right. Courts that are confronted with a civil
defendant who is exposed to criminal prosecution arising from the same facts
weigh the parties' competing interests with a view toward accommodating the
interests of both parties, if possible. Courts have broad discretion in
controlling the course of discovery. Hence, in a discovery dispute, such as
this one, the trial court must exercise its discretion in assessing and balancing
the nature and substantiality of the injustices claimed on all sides.
 
Historically, courts have devised a
number of procedures designed to accommodate the specific circumstances of the
case. One accommodation is to stay the civil proceeding until disposition of
the related criminal prosecution. Another possibility is to allow the civil
defendant to invoke the privilege against self-incrimination, even if doing so
may limit the defendant's ability to put on a defense. Other accommodations
have included conferring an immunity on the party invoking the privilege, or
precluding a litigant who claims the constitutional privilege against
self-incrimination in discovery from waiving the privilege and testifying at
trial to matters upon which the privilege had been asserted. Each of these
procedural tools is devised based on the circumstances of the particular case.
The alleviation of tension between constitutional rights has been treated as
within the province of a court's discretion in seeking to assure the sound
administration of justice.” (Internal quotations and citations omitted).
 
A stay of the case is generally appropriate where the
criminal case arises out of the same transaction as the civil case and the applicable
criminal statute of limitations is likely to run comparatively soon. See Pacers,
Inc. v. Superior Court (1984) 162 Cal.App.3d 686, 690 (case involving
battery of federal officers stayed where federal statute would run out in just
less than two years). A stay order may be less appropriate where the party
invoking the privilege is not the only defendant and the length of the stay is
unknown. See Avant! Corp. v. Superior Court (2000) 79 Cal.App.4th
876, 886-887 (providing a list of generic factors to be analyzed).
 
Discussion
 
            On November
8, 2022, Defendant Kirk brought a motion before this court asking for the same
relief he now seeks. The motion was granted in part and denied in part. This
court ordered that discovery would be stayed to the extent that Defendant Kirk
need not give testimony. (Declaration of Alec M. Rishwain Exhibit C). The court
expressly left open disputes about the production of documents and things, as
well as third-party discovery. (Id.).
 
            Since that
time, the court and parties have been able to resolve the disputes regarding
requests for production directed to Defendant Kirk. The court also denied a
motion for summary judgment brought by Plaintiff, based on the provisions of
Code of Civil Procedure § 437c(h). Defendant Kirk argues that these two
events provide “new evidence and different facts” sufficient to support renewal
of this motion. They do not.
 
            The
animating reason for the stay request is Defendant Kirk’s concern that
testimony given in this case might have negative consequences in the criminal
case. However, as stated in Fuller and quoted above, a civil court’s
obligation is to accommodate both parties’ interests “from a standpoint
of fairness, not from any constitutional right.”[1] This
court did so when it ruled on the motion initially, by staying any testimonial
discovery from Defendant Kirk, but permitting the collection of evidence from
third parties or from other witnesses who were not subject to Fifth Amendment
concerns. This court also did so when it first continued,[2]
then denied outright Plaintiff’s motion for summary judgment, based on Code of
Civil Procedure § 437c(h). The resolution of certain inter-party discovery
disputes does not change the fundamental analysis, nor would it justify this
court in overruling its previous decisions. 
 
            Defendant
Kirk expresses a fear about what may happen on a future motion for summary
judgment. But no such motion has been filed. And such a motion may itself be
subject to the strictures of Code of Civil Procedure § 1008. In any event,
that is a concern to be addressed if and when it arises, not by way of advance
speculation.
 
Conclusion
 
            Defendant
Kirk remains, as he has always been, free to withhold his testimony. When this
motion was brought the first time, the court balanced the interests of these
parties and determined that while the parties could not seek testimony from
Defendant Kirk, they could seek to gather certain physical evidence, as well as
seek all sorts of discovery from third parties. No new facts or evidence have
come to light which would allow this court to overrule its prior decision. The
renewed motion is DENIED.


