 Case Number:  23TRCV02822    Hearing Date:   March 29, 2024    Dept:  8 Tentative Ruling 
¿ 
HEARING DATE:                 March 29, 2024¿ 
¿ 
CASE NUMBER:                  23TRCV02822
¿ 
CASE NAME:                        Saddleback
Roofing Inc. v. Milender White Construction, Inc., et al.
¿ 
MOVING PARTY:                Defendant, MW
Residential SoCal Corp..
 
RESPONDING PARTY:       Plaintiff, Saddleback Roofing, Inc.
¿ 
TRIAL DATE:                        Not
Set.  
¿ 
MOTION:¿                              (1) Motion to
Compel Arbitration 
 
Tentative Rulings:                  (1) GRANTED.
 
 
 
I. BACKGROUND¿ 
¿ 
A.   
Factual¿ 
 
On
August 28, 2023, Plaintiff, Saddleback Roofing, Inc. filed a Complaint against
Defendants, Milender White Construction, Inc., MW Residential SoCal Corp., St
Market D3, LLC, Inglewood Market Gateway, LLC, and DOES 1 through 10. The
Complaint alleges causes of action for: (1) Breach of Written Contract; (20
Unjust Enrichment; (3) Quantum Meruit; and (4) Foreclosure of Mechanic’s Lien. 
 
Defendant,
MW Residential SoCal Corp. (“Milender White”) now moves to enforce an
arbitration clause. 
 
B.
Procedural 
 
On February 20, 2024,
Defendants, Milender White filed a Motion to Compel Arbitration and Stay
Proceedings. On March 18, 2024, Plaintiff filed an opposition brief. On March
22, 2024, Defendants, Milender White filed a reply brief. 
 
II. ANALYSIS 
 
A.    Legal
Standard 
The Federal Arbitration
Act (“FAA”) states that “[a] written provision in any . . . contract evidencing
a transaction involving commerce to settle by arbitration a controversy
thereafter arising out of such contract or transaction . . . shall be valid, irrevocable,
and enforceable, save upon such grounds as exist at law or in equity for the
revocation of any contract.” (9 U.S.C. § 2.) California law incorporates many
of the basic policy objectives contained in the Federal Arbitration Act,
including a presumption in favor of arbitrability. (Engalla v. Permanente
Medical Group, Inc. (1997) 15 Cal.4th 951, 971-72.)
California law states
that “[o]n petition of a party to an arbitration agreement alleging the
existence of a written agreement to arbitrate a controversy and that a party to
the agreement refuses to arbitrate that controversy, the court shall order the
petitioner and the respondent to arbitrate the controversy if it determines
that an agreement to arbitrate the controversy exists….” (Code Civ. Proc, §
1281.2.) “The party seeking arbitration bears the burden of proving the
existence of an arbitration agreement, and the party opposing arbitration bears
the burden of proving any defense, such as unconscionability.” (Pinnacle
Museum Tower Assn. v. Pinnacle Market Development (US), LLC (2012) 55
Cal.4th 223, 236.)
Pursuant to Code of Civil
Procedure §1281.2, generally, on a petition to
compel arbitration, the court must grant the petition unless it finds either
(1) no written agreement to arbitrate exists; (2)¿the right to compel
arbitration has been waived; (3) grounds exist for revocation of the agreement;
or (4) litigation is pending that may render the arbitration unnecessary or
create conflicting¿rulings on common issues. 
 
When seeking to compel
arbitration, the initial burden lies with the moving party to demonstrate the
existence of a valid arbitration agreement by preponderance of evidence. 
(Ruiz v. Moss Bros. Auto Group (2014) 232 Cal.App.4th 836, 841-42; Gamboa
v. Northeast Community Clinic (2021), 72 Cal.App.5th 158, 164-65.)  It
is sufficient for the moving party to produce a copy of the arbitration
agreement or set forth the agreement’s provisions.  (Gamboa, 72
Cal.App.5th at 165.)  The burden then shifts to the opposing party to
prove by a preponderance of evidence any defense to enforcement of the contract
or the arbitration clause.  (Ruiz, 232 Cal.App.4th at 842; Gamboa,
72 Cal.App.5th at 165.)  Subsequently, the moving party must
establish with the preponderance of admissible evidence a valid arbitration
agreement between the parties.  (Ibid.)  The trial court then
weighs all the evidence submitted and uses its discretion to make a final
determination.  (Ibid.)  “California law, ‘like [federal law],
reflects a strong policy favoring arbitration agreements and requires close
judicial scrutiny of waiver claims.’”  (Wagner Const. Co. v. Pacific
Mechanical Corp. (2007) 41 Cal.4th 19, 31.) 
 
If the court orders
arbitration, then the court shall stay the action until arbitration is
completed.  (See Code Civ. Proc., § 1281.4.) 
 
B.     Analysis
 
Here,
the parties do not disagree that they entered into a subcontractor agreement
with each other, for Plaintiff to provide goods and services for a construction
project located in Inglewood, California. Plaintiff’s claim is based on the
allegation that Plaintiff performed its contractual duties but did not receive
payment for its services and has been forced to file this lawsuit. The relevant
arbitration clause between Milender White and Plaintiff states: 
 
 
SECTION 15 – CLAIMS RESOLUTION
 
A.        Arbitration. Subcontractor/Vendor agreed
to binding arbitration as the agreed form of dispute resolution for any claims
arising under this Agreement. The arbitration shall be administered by the
American Arbitration Association (“AAA”) pursuant to the AAA’s Construction
Industry Arbitration Rules then in effect, unless the parties agree otherwise.
Subcontractor/Vendor agrees that if the Contractor is compelled to Arbitrate
(or engage in another specified non-judicial method of resolution) under the
Prime Contract, the Subcontractor/Vendor may be joined by Contractor in any
such action or proceeding involving the project that is subject of this
Agreement.
 
(Milender
White Mtn., Exhibit A.)
 
      The parties at issue in this motion do not
even dispute that there is a valid arbitration agreement between them.
Plaintiff’s opposition, however, contends that Defendant Milender White’s
Motion to Compel Arbitration is dubious because it is attempting to force
non-contracting parties into arbitration. For example, Plaintiff contends that
Fidelity is a critical party here, as issuer of the release bond, but notes
that Fidelity did not enter into an arbitration agreement, nor did Defendants,
ST Market D3 or Inglewood Market Gateway, LLC. Plaintiff argues that because
these key parties cannot be compelled to arbitration, that absent parties will
not be bound by a judgment in arbitration, could force the arbitrating parties
to re-litigate the common issues, and will cause unnecessary delays, involve
unnecessary expenses and create the potential for conflicting rulings on
identical issues of law and fact.  Namely,
Plaintiff’s main argument is that the case involves non-contracting parties who
are not subject to the arbitration clause, and may potentially deprive
plaintiff of its rights to recover under the release bond. 
 
The
Court disagrees. Pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure § 1281.2(c), “[a] party to
the arbitration agreement is also a party to a pending court action or special
proceeding with a third party, arising out of the same transaction or series of
related transactions and there is a possibility of conflicting rulings on a
common issue of law or fact. For purposes of this section, a pending court
action or special proceeding includes an action or proceeding initiated by the
party refusing to arbitrate after the petition to compel arbitration has been
filed, but on or before the date of the hearing on the petition.” (Cal. Code
Civ. Proc. § 1281.2(c).) Plaintiff is arguing that if this Court orders
Plaintiff to join in a mass arbitration involving all other parties in the
consolidated actions, there is a substantial likelihood of conflicting rulings
on common issues of law and fact because the absent parties will not be bound
by the arbitration judgment. As such, Plaintiff contends that even if It
obtained a money judgment against Defendant Milender White in arbitration, it
is unclear if other parties would be bound by that judgment in the subsequent
judicial proceeding to enforce the release bond. Plaintiff notes that it was “forced”
to record a mechanic’s lien and file a suit to foreclose on the non-contracting
owner’s property. More specifically, Plaintiff contends that it is not in
privity with Fidelity, and that Plaintiff now cannot foreclose on its
mechanic’s lien and thus a judgment against Fidelity is critical. 
 
            As noted in Milender White’s reply
brief, Defendants, Fidelity, ST, and Inglewood are only defendants as to
Plaintiff’s fourth cause of action, and that for there to be liability under
the Mechanic’s Lien Release Bond, Plaintiff would first be required to prove
that it is entitled to be paid additional amounts for the “construction
services” and materials that it claims to have supplied to the Project. As
such, Defendant Milender White contends that the initial determination of
liability, which is the subject for the first three causes of action against
Milender White, is what must be decided by an arbitrator before any liability
of the surety on the bond is considered. Milender White notes that it is only
after that determination has been made, and after Milender White refuses to pay
the liability directly itself, that Plaintiff would look to the bond issued by
Fidelity. Accordingly, Defendant maintains that there is no risk of
inconsistent judgments because once liability on the first three causes of
action are determined, the only thing that could possibly be decided by this
Court is whether payment under the Mechanic’s Lien Release Bond is required.
The Court agrees with this argument from Defendant as well as their distinction
of Best Interiors, Inc. v. Millie & Severson, Inc. (2008) 161
Cal.App.4th 1320. 
 
            This is the only argument made by
Plaintiff as grounds to argue against enforcing arbitration. Despite
Plaintiff’s assertion that Defendant is attempting to force non-signatory
parties into arbitration, the Court does not see any such arguments made in Milender
White’s moving or reply papers. Nor does the Court intend to order
non-signatories into eh arbitration. 
Instead, the Court intends to enforce the parties’ contractual agreement
to send the payment dispute into their agreed ADR program and stay the balance
of this case pending the completion of the arbitration.
 
            For the foregoing reasons, this
Court’s tentative ruling is to GRANT the Motion to Compel Arbitration and to
stay the balance of the litigation until the arbitration of the payment dispute
is completed.
 
            Milender White  is ordered to give notice. 
 
 
 
 