  Case Number:  19STCV36328    Hearing Date:   October 14, 2024    Dept:  11 19STCV36328 (Martinez)
 
Tentative Ruling Re: Motion for Leave to Amend
 
Date:                           10/14/24
Time:                          2:30
pm
Moving Party:           Bibiyan
Law Group, P.C. (“Plaintiff’s Counsel”)
Opposing Party:        ACS
Staffing, Inc. (“Defendant”)
Department:              11
Judge:                         David
S. Cunningham III
________________________________________________________________________
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 
The hearing on Plaintiff’s Counsel’s motion for leave to amend is
continued.
 
BACKGROUND
 
This is a wage-and-hour
case.  Plaintiff alleges class and
representative claims under the Labor Code, Unfair Competition Law, and Private
Attorneys General Act (“PAGA”).[1]
 
Here, Plaintiff’s Counsel move
for leave to file a third amended complaint (“TAC”).
 
LAW
 
“The
court may grant leave to amend the pleadings at any stage of the action.  A party may discover the need to amend after
all pleadings are completed and new information requires a change in the
nature of the claims or defenses previously pleaded.”  (Edmon & Karnow, Cal. Practice Guide:
Civ. Procedure Before Trial (The Rutter Group June 2024 Update) ¶ 6:636,
emphasis in original.)  “Such changes
usually cannot be made on ex parte procedure [citation].  Rather, a formal motion to amend must be
served and filed.”  (Ibid.)  
 
“Motions for leave to amend are
directed to the sound discretion of the judge.” 
(Id. at ¶ 6:637.)  “The court may,
in furtherance of justice, and on any terms as may be proper, allow a party to
amend any pleading.”  (Cal. Code Civ.
Proc. § 473, subd. (a)(1).)  “However,
the court’s discretion will usually be exercised liberally to permit amendment
of pleadings.”  (Howard v. County of
San Diego (2010) 184 Cal.App.4th 1422, 1428.)  
 
“The policy favoring amendment is
so strong that it is a rare case in which denial of leave to amend can be
justified.”  (Ibid.)  “Leave to amend should be denied only where
the facts are not in dispute, and the nature of the plaintiff’s claim is clear,
but under substantive law, no liability exists and no amendment would change
the result.”  (Edwards v. Superior
Court (2001) 93 Cal.App.4th 172, 180.)  In fact, “[i]f the
motion to amend is timely made and the granting of the motion will not
prejudice the opposing party, it is error to refuse permission to amend and
where the refusal also results in a party being deprived of the right to assert
a meritorious cause of action or a meritorious defense, it is not only error
but an abuse of discretion.”  (Morgan
v. Superior Court (1959) 172 Cal.App.2d 527, 530.)
 
DISCUSSION
 
The purpose of this motion is
twofold – to add a new representative named Sara Sobenes in Plaintiff’s place
and to dismiss Plaintiff without prejudice.
 
Plaintiff’s Counsel
 
Plaintiff’s Counsel contend leave
to amend should be granted because Plaintiff has disappeared.  In April 2024, the attorneys attended a
mediation where defense counsel made a settlement offer.  Plaintiff’s Counsel attempted to contact
Plaintiff multiple times to get his approval. 
He did not respond, so Plaintiff’s Counsel hired a private investigator
to find him.  The private investigator
searched for several weeks without success. 
Now, Plaintiff’s Counsel claim they need to name Sobenes as a new
representative to protect the putative class members’ interests and to
prosecute the representative PAGA claim. 
(See Motion, pp. 1-3.)
 
In particular, Plaintiff’s Counsel
claim:
 
* the policy in favor of granting
leave to amend is liberal (see id. at p. 3-4);
 
* California law requires courts
to give litigants opportunities to name new representatives (see id. at pp.
4-6);
 
* the proposed TAC is necessary
(see id. at pp. 6-7);
 
* the proposed TAC “relate[s]
back to the filing of the original complaint” (id. at p. 7);
 
* Plaintiff’s Counsel did not
delay in requesting leave to amend (see id. at pp. 7-8); and
 
* Defendant cannot show
prejudice.  (See id. at pp. 8-9.)
 
Defendant
 
Defendant disagrees.  Defendant contends the motion should be
denied because:
 
* Plaintiff’s Counsel’s notice of
motion does not state the grounds for the motion (see Opposition, p. 9);
 
* the declaration of attorney
Rafael Yedoyan fails to comply with rule 3.1324(b) (see id. at p. 10); 
 
* the proposed TAC is unnecessary
(see id. at pp. 10-11);
 
* Plaintiff’s Counsel fail to
identify the date when they discovered Plaintiff’s disappearance (see id. at p.
11);
 
* Sobenes’s class and PAGA claims
do not relate back (see id. at pp. 12-15);
 
* Sobenes signed an arbitration
agreement (see id. at p. 15); and
 
* Defendant will suffer
prejudice.  (See id. at pp. 15-18.)
 
Analysis
 
Defendant’s challenge to the
notice is unavailing.  A “notice of
motion must state in the first paragraph exactly what relief is
sought and why (what grounds).” 
(Edmon & Karnow, supra, at ¶ 9:38, emphasis in original.)  Yet “this is not an absolute requirement.”  (Id. at ¶ 9:41.)  “Relief
may be granted on grounds appearing anywhere in the accompanying declarations and points and authorities provided the notice states the motion will be made on grounds
disclosed in the accompanying papers.” 
(Ibid., emphasis in original.) 
Plaintiff’s Counsel’s notice complies with these rules:
 
PLEASE TAKE NOTICE
that on October 14, 2024 at 2:30p.m. in Department 11 of the above-entitled
Court, located at 312 North Spring Street, Los Angeles, California, counsel for
SILVESTRE MARTINEZ (“Plaintiff”) will and hereby does move this Court for an order
granting Plaintiff leave to file a Third Amended Complaint (“TAC”) (a copy of
the proposed TAC is hereto attached) in order to: (1) add Sara Sobenes as a
plaintiff in all of the Class Action claims; (2) add Sara Sobenes as a named
Plaintiff in the PAGA claims; (3) clarify that the alleged Causes of Action are
on behalf of Sara Sobenes; and (4) dismiss Plaintiff Silvestre Martinez as a
Plaintiff in this action without prejudice, given his sudden disappearance.

 
As such, Plaintiff
respectfully requests that the Court grant Plaintiff’s motion for leave to file
a TAC. This motion will be based on this notice, the attached Memorandum of
Points of Authorities, the Declaration of Rafael Yedoyan, the record on file in
this action, as well as such other and further matters as are or may be
presented before or at the hearing of this matter.   
 
(Notice of Motion, p. 2, emphasis
added.)
 
Defendant’s challenge to the
Yedoyan declaration is also unavailing. 
Rule 3.1324(b) requires a declaration to be filed in support of a motion
for leave to amend.  The declaration must
state “the purpose and effect of the proposed amendments[,]” “why the
proposed amendments are necessary and proper[,]” “when the facts giving
rise to the proposed amendment were discovered[,]” and “the reasons why
the request for amendment was not made earlier.”  (Edmon & Karnow, supra, at ¶ 6:677,
emphasis in original.)  Although the
Yedoyan declaration lacks clear, organized statements addressing these factors
point by point, it appears to contain the requisite information.  The purpose is to name a new class
representative (see, e.g., Yedoyan Decl., ¶ 12); it is necessary to name a new
class representative because Plaintiff’s Counsel could not find Plaintiff (see
id. at ¶¶ 7-12); the facts of Plaintiff’s disappearance became known when
Plaintiff’s Counsel received the private investigator’s report (see id. at ¶¶
9-10); and Plaintiff’s Counsel did not move earlier because they were trying to
resolve the matter informally first. 
(See id. at ¶¶ 11-19.)  The Court
finds rule 3.1324(b) satisfied.
 
The Court turns to Defendant’s
prejudice argument.  
 
First, Defendant claims
Plaintiff’s Counsel misled Defendant and the Court by attending the mediation
without authority from Plaintiff and by failing to disclose that Plaintiff is
missing.  (See Opposition, pp.
16-17.)  
 
This is conjecture.  The Yedoyan declaration, which is signed
under penalty of perjury, states that, prior to the mediation and
disappearance, Plaintiff’s Counsel had been “able to contact [Plaintiff]
without issue.”  (Id. at ¶ 10.)  Defendant may doubt the veracity of the
statement, but doubt is not evidence that Plaintiff’s Counsel lied.  The Yedoyan declaration suggests that
Plaintiff’s Counsel did not learn about the potential of a problem until April
11th or 12th.  (See
id. at ¶¶ 5-7.)  
 
Second, Defendant contends
granting the motion would cause the case to “restart . . . on the eve of the
five-year rule.”  (Opposition, p. 17,
capitalizing and underlining deleted.)  
 
The Court disagrees.  Defendant’s own estimate is that the
five-year deadline is more than a year from now.  (See ibid.) 
The current record does not support the conclusion that the litigation
cannot be completed within a year.  
 
Third, Defendant claims
Plaintiff’s Counsel’s real goal is to open discovery to find another new
representative to replace Sobenes since Sobenes signed an arbitration
agreement.  (See id. at pp. 17-18.)  
 
The Court disagrees.  The arbitration agreement is attached to the
declaration of Mirna Sevilla, Defendant’s operations director, at exhibit
1.  (See Sevilla Decl., Ex. 1.)  Defendant did not produce it to Plaintiff’s Counsel
before Plaintiff’s Counsel filed this motion. 
(See Yedoyan Decl., ¶¶ 17-19.) 
Regardless, the agreement’s enforceability is a factual question for
another day; and, even assuming it is enforceable, California policy probably would
still favor discovery given the Court’s obligation to look out for the
interests of the putative class (it is not their fault that Plaintiff went
missing or that Defendant declined to stipulate to Plaintiff’s Counsel’s
informal request to discover a new representative).  (See, e.g., CashCall, Inc. v. Superior
Court (2008) 159 Cal.App.4th 273, 284-296; see also, e.g., Safeco
Ins. Co. of America v. Superior Court (2009) 173 Cal.App.4th
814, 828-835.)  
 
Defendant would be free to demur
to the TAC, file a motion to compel arbitration, request a Belaire-West
notice procedure, and oppose class certification, so the prejudice to
Defendant, if any, would be minimized.   

 
Nevertheless, the Court agrees
that the proposed TAC is defective. 
Plaintiff’s Counsel fail to show that Sobenes’s claims relate back and
that she has standing under PAGA.  The
relation-back discussion is conclusory (see Motion, p. 7), and Plaintiff’s Counsel
fail to highlight any relation-back allegations in the proposed TAC.  The PAGA-standing paragraph is repeated,
verbatim, from the second amended complaint (“SAC”).  It concerns Plaintiff, not Sobenes:
 
31. Plaintiff has
complied with the procedures for bringing suit specified in Labor Code section
2699.3. On or around October 10, 2019, Plaintiff gave written notice to the
Labor and Workforce Development Agency (“LWDA”) and to the Staffing Defendants
of the specified provisions of the Labor Code alleged to have been violated by
it. The LWDA did not provide notice of its intention to investigate the
Staffing Defendants’ alleged violations within sixty-five (65) calendar days of
the October 10, 2019 postmarked date of the herein-described notice sent by
Plaintiff to the LWDA and Defendant.
 
(SAC, ¶ 31.)
 
31. Plaintiff has
complied with the procedures for bringing suit specified in Labor Code section
2699.3. On or around October 10, 2019, Plaintiff gave written notice to the
Labor and Workforce Development Agency (“LWDA”) and to the Staffing Defendants
of the specified provisions of the Labor Code alleged to have been violated by
it. The LWDA did not provide notice of its intention to investigate the
Staffing Defendants’ alleged violations within sixty-five (65) calendar days of
the October 10, 2019 postmarked date of the herein-described notice sent by
Plaintiff to the LWDA and Defendant.
 
(Yedoyan Decl., Ex. H, ¶ 31
[attaching the proposed TAC].)  These
deficiencies must be fixed before leave to file the proposed TAC can be
granted.
 
Ultimately, the Court finds that
the hearing should be continued to give Plaintiff’s Counsel a chance to decide
whether Sobenes is the right person to serve as the new representative.  If they want to continue with Sobenes, they
should redraft the proposed TAC to allege facts demonstrating relation back and
PAGA standing, and they should prepare themselves to oppose an arbitration
motion in case Defendant decides to file one. 
If they want to conduct discovery to find a different new
representative, they should set up a discovery conference.  The Court grants Plaintiff’s Counsel leave to
pursue either option.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 


