 Case Number:  23TRCV03828    Hearing Date:   April 19, 2024    Dept:  B 23TRCV03828
ALICIA CAMARENA MILLAN, et al. vs AMERICAN HONDA MOTOR
COMPANY, INC., et al.
Tentative Ruling on Demurrer and Motion to Strike
 
This is a Song-Beverly lawsuit, although it contains a Fifth
Cause of action for fraudulent inducement-concealment that is not predicated on
Song-Beverly.  Before the Court is the
demurrer of American Honda Motor Company. 
On January 10, 2024 Defendant filed its demurrer attacking only the non-Song-Beverly
claim, the Fifth Cause of Action.  On
January 26, 2024 Defendant filed its Motion to Strike seeking to strike the punitive
damages allegations.  Plaintiff has filed
oppositions to both motions.  Reply
briefs have been filed.  Both are on
calendar for April 19, 2024.
On April 16, 2024 Defendant filed a Moton to Transfer Venue
scheduled for hearing on July 3, 2024.
“Defendant, American Honda Motor
Co., Inc. (“AHM”) will and hereby does move this Court, pursuant to Code Civ.
Proc. §397(a) for an order transferring the venue of this action to Superior
Court of California, County of Bernardino due to the fact that this action was
not commenced in a proper venue. The 2020 Honda Pilot (“Subject Vehicle”) was
purchased and primarily repaired in San Bernardino, County, and the majority of
the witnesses reside in San Bernardino, County. AHM further moves the Court for
an order that Plaintiffs pay to AHM its transfer costs and fees pursuant to
Code of Civil Procedure §399.”
In light of the Motion to Transfer Venue, the Court believes
that it is appropriate to continue the Demurrer and Motion to Strike to a date
after the change of venue motion is decided. 
However, the Court also shall not delay this matter by having this
change of venue motion heard in July. 
This Court has many available dates that are much more timely than July.
The Motion to Transfer Venue is advanced to May 13, 2024 at
8:30 a.m.
The Demurrer and Motion to Strike are continued to May 15,
2024 at 8:30.
In as much as the Demurrer and Motion to Strike do not
implicate Song-Beverly, the Court Orders Plaintiff to note in counsel’s time
records the time devoted to the Demurrer and Motion to Strike as the time
devoted to these two motions is not compensable under Song-Beverly and must be separately
accounted for should there ultimately be a claim for attorney’s fees under Song-Beverly.
 