  Case Number:  23TRCV03647    Hearing Date:   April 19, 2024    Dept:  B 


Superior Court
  of California
County of Los Angeles
Southwest
  District
Torrance Dept. B




 
PHEBE
  SHIN KWON, 


 
 
 
Plaintiff,


 
Case No.:
 


 
23TRCV03647




 
vs.


 


 
[Tentative]
  RULING
 




 
TESLA
  MOTORS, INC.,


 
 
 
Defendant.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing
Date:                          April 19, 2024
 
Moving Parties:                      Defendant Tesla Motors,
Inc.
Responding Party:                  Plaintiff Phebe Shin Kwon
Motion to Compel Binding
Arbitration
 
            The court considered the moving,
opposition, and reply papers.
RULING
            The motion to compel arbitration is GRANTED
and the action is STAYED. 
BACKGROUND
On November 2, 2023, Phebe Shin
Kwon filed a complaint against Tesla Motors, Inc. LC for violations under
Song-Beverly Consumer Warranty Act. 
LEGAL AUTHORITY
Under CCP § 1281, a “written
agreement to submit to arbitration an existing controversy or a controversy
thereafter arising is valid, enforceable and revocable, save upon such grounds
as exist for the revocation of any contract.” 
Under CCP § 1281.2, “On petition of
a party to an arbitration agreement alleging the existence of a written
agreement to arbitrate a controversy and that a party thereto refuses to
arbitrate such controversy, the court shall order the petitioner and the
respondent to arbitrate the controversy if it determines that an agreement to
arbitrate the controversy exists, unless it determines that: . . . (c) A party
to the arbitration agreement is also a party to a pending court action . . .
with a third party, arising out of the same transaction or series of related
transactions and there is a possibility of conflicting rulings on a common
issue of law or fact. . . . (d) . . . . If the court determines that a party to
the arbitration is also a party to litigation in a pending court action . . .
with a third party as set forth under subdivision (c) herein, the court (1) may
refuse to enforce the arbitration agreement . . . ; (2) may order intervention
or joinder as to all or only certain issues; (3) may order arbitration among
the parties who have agreed to arbitration and stay the pending court action .
. . pending the outcome of arbitration proceeding; or (4) may stay arbitration
pending the outcome of the court action or special proceeding.”  
DISCUSSION
Defendant Tesla Motors, Inc. requests
that the court compel arbitration and to stay the case.
The complaint alleges that on March
7, 2023, plaintiff purchased a 2023 Tesla Model S.  Complaint, ¶5.  After plaintiff took possession of the
vehicle and during the warranty period, the vehicle contained defects that
substantially impair the use, safety, and/or value of the vehicle.  Id., ¶10. 
Plaintiff provided defendant with sufficient opportunity to service or
repair the vehicle.  Id., ¶13.  Defendant was unable and/or failed to service
or repair the vehicle within a reasonable number of attempts.  Id., ¶14.
            Existence of an agreement to
arbitrate
“As stated in Cione v. Foresters Equity Services, Inc. (1997) 58 Cal. App. 4th
625, 634 ‘The right to arbitration depends upon contract; a petition to compel
arbitration is simply a suit in equity seeking specific performance of that
contract.  There is no public policy
favoring arbitration of disputes that the parties have not agreed to
arbitrate.’”  Lopez v. Charles Schwab & Co., Inc. (2004) 118 Cal. App. 4th
1224, 1229.
Defendant Tesla presents evidence
that on March 7, 2023, upon initially placing the order for the subject
vehicle, plaintiff electronically accepted the terms and conditions of the
Motor Vehicle Order Agreement (“MVOA”).  Defendant
asserts that the MVOA contains an arbitration provision, which states, in
part:  “Please carefully read this
provision, which applies to any dispute between you and Tesla, Inc. and its
affiliates. . . . [Y]ou agree that any dispute arising out of or relating to
any aspect of the relationship between you and Tesla will not be decided by a
judge or jury but instead by a single arbitrator in an arbitration administered
by the [AAA] under its Consumer Arbitration Rules. . . .”  The provision contains an opt out clause and
that if “you do not opt out, this agreement to arbitrate overrides any
different arbitration agreement between us, including any arbitration agreement
in a lease or finance contract.”  Raymond
Kim decl., Exh. 1.
Defendant also contends that plaintiff
took delivery of the subject vehicle on March 7, 2023, at which time plaintiff
executed a Retail Installment Sale Contract (“RISC”) for the purchase of the
subject vehicle on credit.  Defendant
asserts that the RISC also contains an arbitration agreement.  It states in part:  “1. 
Either you or we may choose to have any dispute between us decided by
arbitration and not in court or by jury trial. . . . Any claim or dispute,
whether in contract, tort, statute or otherwise (including the interpretation
and scope of this Arbitration Provision, and the arbitrability of the claim or
dispute), between you and us or our employees, agents, successors or assigns,
which arises out of or relates to your credit application, purchase or
condition of this vehicle, this contract or any resulting transaction or
relationship (including any such relationship with third parties who do not
sign this contract) shall, at your or our election, be resolved by neutral,
binding arbitration and not by a court action. […]”  “We” and “us” are defined as the seller,
Tesla Motors, Inc.  See Kim decl., Exh. 2.
            In opposition, plaintiff argues that
her claims are independent from the order/purchase agreement, citing to Ford
Motor Warranty Cases (2023) 89 Cal. App. 5th 1324 (“Ochoa”),
and that her claims do not rely on contract terms derived from the purchase
agreement.
            In reply, defendant argues that Ochoa
is irrelevant case law because defendant is the direct contracting party and
does not have third-party dealerships that handle the ordering and selling of
its vehicles.
The court finds that arbitration agreements
exist between plaintiff and defendant Tesla and that plaintiff did not opt-out.  Plaintiff does not dispute that she entered
into both agreements.  The Ochoa
case (which addresses whether a nonsignatory manufacturer can enforce the
arbitration agreement) is distinguishable because, here, Tesla is both the manufacturer
and seller of the vehicle and is a party to the agreements, and not a
nonsignatory.
Scope of agreement 
Defendant argues that plaintiff’s
claims against it fall squarely within the scope of the arbitration clauses as
they arise directly out of the relationship between plaintiff as
purchaser/consumer and Tesla as the manufacturer/retailer/warrantor/repair
facility and relate to the “purchase or condition” of the vehicle.
The court finds that the scope of
the arbitration agreements covers plaintiff’s claims against Tesla as they
relate to the condition of the vehicle and arise out of the relationship.  Further, plaintiff’s citation to Ochoa
is unavailing.
Enforceability
            Unconscionable?
“Courts analyze the
unconscionability standard in Civil Code section 1670.5 as invoking elements of
procedural and substantive unconscionability. 
The procedural element of unconscionability focuses on whether the contract
is one of adhesion.  Procedural
unconscionability focuses on whether there is ‘oppression’ arising from an
inequality of bargaining power or ‘surprise’ arising from buried terms in a
complex printed form.  The substantive
element addresses the existence of overly harsh or one-sided terms.  An agreement to arbitrate is unenforceable
only if both the procedural and substantive elements are satisfied.  However, Armendariz
held, ‘[T]he more substantively oppressive the contract term, the less evidence
of procedural unconscionability is required to come to the conclusion that the
term is unenforceable, and vice versa.’ (Armendariz,
at 114).”  McManus v. CIBC World Markets Corp. (2003) 109 Cal. App. 4th 76, 87
(citations omitted).
In opposition, plaintiff argues
that the agreements are procedurally unconscionable because they are an
adhesion contract drafted by defendant. 
Plaintiff contends that the “opt out” provision “demonstrates an abuse
of power, creates confusion and an undue burden to consumers” because it is
“extremely easy for consumers to ‘opt-in’” with a simple click of a button but
to opt-out requires that the consumer send a letter, within 30 days.  Plaintiff also argues that the arbitration
agreements are substantively unconscionable because the agreement provides that
Tesla will pay all AAA fees for any arbitration, and that the arbitrators will
not remain neutral because “repeat business creates an incentive for
arbitrators to give favorable decisions for corporations that are paying
them.”  Plaintiff also asserts that there
is no appeals process and that an arbitration is private so consumers would be
denied the opportunity to learn about other consumers with similar claims.  Moreover, plaintiff argues, requiring that
plaintiff submit dispute solely to AAA because the AAA Rules restricts
discovery.  Plaintiff states that if the
court grants the motion, then the AAA provision should be stricken.
In reply, defendant argues that the
arbitration provisions are not unconscionable because plaintiff’s decision to
order and purchase the subject vehicle was entirely willful and that she has
not shown that she lacked bargaining power, citing to Sanchez v. Valencia
Holding Co., LLC (2015) 61 Cal. 4th 899.  Defendant also points out that AAA’s Consumer
Arbitration Rules allow for the exchange of information between the parties,
and are more efficient.
The court finds that even if the arbitration
provisions are adhesion contracts, when there is no other indication of
oppression other than the adhesive aspect of an agreement, the degree of
procedural unconscionability is low.  Serpa
v. California Surety Investigations, Inc. (2013) 215 Cal. App. 4th
695, 704.  Further, plaintiff had the
ability to opt out of the arbitration clause. 
Moreover, as in Sanchez v. Valencia Holding Co., LLC (2015) 61
Cal. 4th 899, 931, “there is no reason in this case to conclude that
plaintiff lacked power to bargain.  In
general, nothing prevents purchasers of . . . vehicles from bargaining with
dealers, even though dealers use form contracts, and nothing in the record
shows that plaintiff could not bargain in this case.”   
As to substantive
unconscionability, the court finds little to none as the arbitration provisions
do not lack mutuality.  The discovery
rules apply equally to both parties, for example.  Moreover, the court does not find a basis to
strike the provision requiring AAA as arbitrators and plaintiff’s argument that
they are not neutral because defendant pays for the arbitration costs is purely
speculative.  In any event, plaintiff
could offer to pay for half the costs.
The motion is thus GRANTED. 
 
ORDER
The motion to compel arbitration is
GRANTED.
The action is STAYED. 
            Defendant
is ordered to give notice of the ruling.