  Case Number:  22AHCV00597    Hearing Date:   October 31, 2023    Dept:  3 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - NORTHEAST
DISTRICT
 



MERCEDES-BENZ FINANCIAL SERVICES, USA LLC, 
                   Plaintiff(s),
          vs.
 
MARCOS
   AGUILAR,
 
                   Defendant(s).


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


     CASE NO.:  22AHCV00597
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: MOTION FOR RECONSIDERATION OF APPLICATION
   FOR WRIT OF POSSESSION 
 
Dept.
  3
8:30
  a.m.

October
   31, 2023




 


 


 



 
Plaintiff
Mercedes-Benz
 Financial Services, USA LLC, by and through Daimler Title Company, (“Plaintiff”), previously sought a
writ of possession against Defendant Marcos
 Aguilar, individually and dba A&B Auto Body Repair (“Defendant”) over the following
property: a 2018 Mercedes with VIN No. WDDZH8KBXJA372346. (the
 “Property”).  
On
September 13, 2023, Defendant filed an opposition brief and request for
judicial notice.
On
September 15, 2023, the Court granted Plaintiff’s application. 
On September
25, 2023, Plaintiff filed this motion for reconsideration requesting the Court
amend its order to add that Plaintiff’s obligations for storage fees do not
exceed $2,750. Plaintiff also requests the Court award $3,500 in attorneys’
fees in accordance of Civil Code section 3068 and Vehicle Code section 10652.5.
Plaintiff submitted a proposed order concurrently with its motion. Plaintiff
explains that these additional details are required in the order because
Defendant continues to demand Plaintiff pay 4 months of additional storage fees
and is threatening litigation. 
As previously recounted by
the Court, Defendant is in wrongful possession of the Property by continuing to
demand more than $2,750 for storage fees (in addition to the cost of any
repairs).  (Vehicle Code, § 3068, subd.
(a)(2) [person with extinguished lien shall turn over possession of vehicle
upon tender of amount owed by statute].) Therefore, Plaintiff’s unopposed
motion is GRANTED insofar as the previously-issued order shall now specify that
Plaintiff’s obligations for storage fees shall not exceed $2,750. 
However, the Court finds it
premature to declare Plaintiff a prevailing party because granting the
application for writ of possession does not necessarily conclude the
litigation. The statutes that Plaintiff cites to apply to “any action” brought
by a legal owner of a motor vehicle and before the entry of judgment, there is
technically no prevailing party. (Code Civ. Proc., § 1032, subd. (a)(4).) After
judgment, Plaintiff may move to recover reasonable attorneys’ fees as costs pursuant
to Code Civ. Proc., §§ 1033.5(b)(5). 
Plaintiff’s request for
fees is also substantively deficient. 
The statutes cited by Plaintiff allow for the recovery of “reasonable
attorney’s fees” and Plaintiff’s motion presents no calculations which would
allow the Court to use a lodestar method to determine whether $3,500 is a
reasonable fee amount. 
 
Dated this 31st day of October,
2023
 




 


 




 


       William A.
  Crowfoot
Judge of the Superior Court
 




 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at ALHDEPT3@lacourt.org indicating
intention to submit on the tentative as directed by the instructions provided
on the court website at www.lacourt.org. 
Please be advised that if you submit on the tentative and elect not to appear
at the hearing, the opposing party may nevertheless appear at the hearing and
argue the matter.  Unless you receive a
submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume that others
might appear at the hearing to argue.  If
the Court does not receive emails from the parties indicating submission on
this tentative ruling and there are no appearances at the hearing, the Court
may, at its discretion, adopt the tentative as the final order or place the
motion off calendar.
 