 Case Number:  22STCV21515    Hearing Date:   October 31, 2023    Dept:  3 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - NORTHEAST
DISTRICT
 



ANA XANTHE CHIRINO GODOY, by and through her
   successor-in-interest, DANNY A. GODOY, et al.,
                   Plaintiff(s),
          vs.
 
SHANE S.
   PAK, M.D., et al., 
 
                   Defendant(s).


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


      CASE NO.: 22STCV21515
   
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: MOTION FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT BY SHANE S. PAK 
 
 
Dept.
  3
8:30
  a.m.
October
   31, 2023




 


 


 



 
I.       INTRODUCTION
          On July 1,
2022, plaintiff Danny A. Godoy (“Plaintiff”), individually and as the
successor-in-interest to Ana Xanthe Chirino Godoy (“Godoy”), filed this
survival action against defendants Shane S. Pak, M.D. (“Defendant”), Sergio Y.
Go, M.D. (“Dr. Go”), and Alhambra Hospital Medical Center (“Alhambra
Hospital”). Plaintiff alleges that Godoy, his wife, passed away on July 1, 2021,
after losing over two liters of blood during a lumbar decompression surgery. (Compl.,
¶¶ 2, 14-15.) The surgery was recommended and performed by Defendant; Dr. Go
was Godoy’s anesthesiologist during the procedure. (Compl., ¶ 14.) 
          On August 15,
2023, Defendant filed this motion for summary judgment. On September 21, 2023,
Plaintiff filed a notice of non-opposition. 
II.      LEGAL
STANDARD
In reviewing a motion for summary
judgment, courts must apply a three-step analysis: “(1) identify the issues
framed by the pleadings; (2) determine whether the moving party has negated the
opponent’s claims; and (3) determine whether the opposition has demonstrated
the existence of a triable, material factual issue.”  (Hinesley
v. Oakshade Town Center (2005) 135 Cal.App.4th 289, 294.) “[T]he initial
burden is always on the moving party to make a prima facie showing that there
are no triable issues of material fact.” 
(Scalf v. D. B. Log Homes, Inc. (2005) 128 Cal.App.4th 1510,
1519.)  
III.     DISCUSSION
In a medical malpractice action,
a plaintiff must establish the following elements: “(1) the duty of the
professional to use such skill, prudence, and diligence as other members of his
profession commonly possess and exercise; (2) a breach of that duty; (3) a
proximate causal connection between the negligent conduct and the resulting
injury; and (4) actual loss or damage resulting from the professional's
negligence.  [citations.]”  (Galvez v. Frields (2001) 88 Cal.App.4th
1410, 1420.)  
          Defendant
argues that summary judgment should be granted on the grounds that: (1) he
complied with the standard of care in treating Godoy, (2) to a reasonable
degree of medical probability, no deviation from the standard of care caused
Godoy’s death, and (3) he is not vicariously liable for any negligent act or
omission of Dr. Go. Defendant submits the declarations of board-certified
orthopedic surgeon Jeffrey E. Deckey (“Dr. Deckey”) and board-certified
anesthesiologist Kevin Becker, M.D. (“Dr. Becker”) in support of his motion.
Dr. Deckey declares that he has been a spinal surgeon since 1998 and performs
over 350 spinal operations annually. (Deckey Decl., ¶¶ 2-3.) Dr. Becker has
been in private practice in the field of anesthesiology since 1986 and her
practice has included every surgical specialty, including orthopedic spinal
surgeries.  (Becker Decl., ¶¶ 2, 5.) 
          Dr.
Deckey opines that the care and treatment provided by Defendant to Godoy was
performed within the applicable standard of care. Godoy was a proper candidate
for the decompression and fusion spinal procedures because she had significant
pain and over five years of non-surgical conservative treatment with no
resolution of pain or symptoms. Godoy’s MRI demonstrated significant pathology
and degenerative disk disease. Dr. Deckey also states that the pre-operative
workup demonstrated that Godoy was sufficiently healthy to withstand surgery
because her labs were grossly unremarkable, except for mildly elevated glucose
which is not uncommon in obese and diabetic patients, and even then, was not so
elevated that surgery was contraindicated. Further, Dr. Deckey explains, her
coagulation was normal, and although Godoy was obese, the typical concerns
involving obese patients undergoing surgery were not present because Godoy was
still ambulatory, mobile, and working as a nurse. Last, Dr. Deckey concludes
that Defendant obtained appropriate informed consent. Godoy was a registered
nurse and prepared questions for Defendant about the surgery and she documented
Defendant’s responses to her questions. Godoy also signed the office consent
form and the hospital’s informed consent form. 
          With
respect to the procedure itself, Dr. Deckey states that Defendant’s performance
of the surgery on June 28, 2021, complied with the applicable standard of care
because the operative report describes a surgery that was appropriate for its
intended goal of decompressing the spinal cord and nerve roots. Although the
surgery lasted 6 hours, Dr. Deckey states that the duration of the operation
was appropriate given the number of levels of fusion and decompression.  Dr. Deckey also states that the
intraoperative blood loss of upward of 2,000 ccs does not imply a breach of the
surgical standard of care. Given Godoy’s weight of nearly 300 pounds and
Defendant’s description of the extremely calcified disks encountered, 2,000 ccs
of blood loss is not an alarming amount. Dr. Becker adds that Defendant’s
responsibilities include apparent surgical complications, whereas postoperative
interpretation and treatment during recovery is the anesthesiologist’s
responsibility. 
          “When a defendant moves for summary judgment and
supports his motion with expert
declarations that his conduct fell within the community standard of care, he is
entitled to summary judgment unless the plaintiff comes forward with
conflicting expert evidence.”  (Munro v. Regents of University of California
(1989) 215 Cal.3d 977, 984-985.)  Here,
Defendant has sufficiently shown that he complied with the applicable standard
of care. Therefore, Plaintiff is obligated to produce a competing expert
declaration. Plaintiff filed a notice of non-opposition and has declined to
produce conflicting evidence. Accordingly, Defendant is entitled to summary
judgment. 
VI.     CONCLUSION
          In light of
the foregoing, the motion for summary judgment is GRANTED.
 
Moving party to give notice.  
Dated
this 31st
day of October 2023
 




 


 




 


William
  A. Crowfoot
Judge of the Superior Court




 
Parties
who intend to submit on this tentative must send an email to the Court at AHLDEPT3@lacourt.org
indicating intention to submit on the tentative as directed by the
instructions provided on the court’s website at www.lacourt.org.  Please be advised that if you submit on the
tentative and elect not to appear at the hearing, the opposing party may
nevertheless appear at the hearing and argue the matter.  Unless you receive a submission from all other
parties in the matter, you should assume that others might appear at the
hearing to argue.  If the Court does not receive emails from the parties
indicating submission on this tentative ruling and there are no appearances at
the hearing, the Court may, at its discretion, adopt the tentative as the final
order or place the motion off calendar.