 Case Number:  22STCV08568    Hearing Date:   March 11, 2024    Dept:  31 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA  FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT  EDGAR ESTURBAN, Plaintiff(s),  vs.  IRLANDA SANCHEZ, ET AL.,  Defendant(s). ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) )       CASE NO: 22STCV08568  [TENTATIVE] ORDER FINDING PLAINTIFF’S MOTION TO COMPEL MOOT  Dept. 31 1:30 p.m.  March 11, 2024  I.  Motion to Compel Plaintiff Edgar Esturban ("Plaintiff”) propounded special interrogatories, set one, on defendant  ZLS Trans Inc. (“ZLS”) on March 31, 2023. After providing ZLS with extensions up until July 31, 2023, Plaintiff avers that ZLS has not served responses to date. Plaintiff therefore seeks an order compelling ZLS to respond, without objections, to the outstanding discovery and to pay sanctions.   ZLS opposes the motion, arguing that it served responses to Plaintiff’s special interrogatories, set one, on February 16, 2024. (Mitrovich Decl.; Exh. A.) Plaintiff did not file a reply. Based on the foregoing, the Court finds that the motion to compel moot in light of the responses served on Plaintiff prior to the hearing. (St. Mary v. Superior Court (2014) 223 Cal.App.4th 762, 776.) The only remaining issue is sanctions.   II. Sanctions ZLs argues Plaintiff’s request for sanctions is excessive, and contends that monetary sanctions should either be denied or reduced substantially. Plaintiff requests $560 in monetary sanctions against Defendant for drafting the motion, and for the filing fee. Sanctions are mandatory against any party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel a response, unless a court makes certain findings.¿ (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.290(c), 2031.300(c).) A court has discretion to award sanctions that are “suitable and necessary to enable the party seeking discovery to obtain the objects of the discovery he seeks” but they should not be punitive in nature or levied for the purposes of punishing an offending party. (Vallbona v. Springer (1996) 43 Cal.App.4th 1525, 1545.) Because responses were served late, sanctions are warranted.  Sanctions are imposed against ZLS and ZLS’ counsel of record, jointly and severally. ZLS and/or its counsel are ordered to pay sanctions to Plaintiff, by and through counsel of record, in the total amount of $560, within twenty (20) days.  Moving party is ordered to give notice.    PLEASE TAKE NOTICE: Parties are encouraged to meet and confer after reading this tentative ruling to see if they can reach an agreement. If a party intends to submit on this tentative ruling,¿the party must send an email to the court at¿sscdept31@lacourt.org¿with the Subject line “SUBMIT” followed by the case number.¿ The body of the email must include the hearing date and time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the party submitting.¿¿ Unless¿all¿parties submit by email to this tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or in person for oral argument.¿ You should assume that others may appear at the hearing to argue.¿¿ If the parties neither submit nor appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.¿ After the Court has issued a tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion without leave.¿  Dated this 8th day of March 2024      Hon. Michelle C. Kim Judge of the Superior Court   