

 
 
            On
February 27, 2023, Plaintiff Jasmine Baldwin filed this action against
Defendants Uber Technologies, Arthur Randolph McDonald, and Does 1 through 100
for Motor Vehicle and General Negligence (the “Baldwin Action”).
Plaintiff in the Baldwin Action alleges that on February 13, 2022, on
the I-110 Northbound Freeway, at or near 92nd Street, Los Angeles, California,
90003, Defendants owned and/or operated the vehicle negligently and carelessly,
proximately causing property damage and personal injury to Plaintiff.   
 
            On
July 29, 2023, Plaintiff Ciara Pannell filed Los Angeles Superior Court Case
No. 23STCV17921, Ciara Pannell v. Arthur Randolph McDonald, et al. (the “Pannell
Action”).  Plaintiff in the Pannell
Action alleges damages arising from the same automobile accident as the Baldwin Action.
 
Defendant
Randolph McDonald seeks to consolidate the Baldwin Action and Pannell
Action.  Defendant argues that the
Plaintiffs in both the Baldwin Action and Pannell Action were
passengers in the same February 13, 2022 accident and that consolidating the cases would
avoid unnecessary costs and delays to the Court and to all parties as well as
the substantial risk of inconsistent judgments.
 
“Cases may
not be consolidated unless they are in the same department.  A motion to consolidate two or more cases may
be noticed and heard after the cases, initially filed in different departments,
have been related into a single department, or if the cases were already
assigned to that department.” (Superior Court of California, Local Rule 3.3(g)(1).)   Additionally,
motions to consolidate must “[b]e filed in each case sought to be
consolidated.” (Cal. R. Ct. 3.350(a)(1)(C).)
 
The Baldwin
Action and Pannell Action have not yet been deemed related.  (See Cal. R. Ct. 3.300.)  The matters therefore cannot be consolidated.
(Local Rule 3.3(g)(1).)  Additionally,
Defendant has not filed a Motion to Consolidate in the Pannell Action,
as is required by the California Rules of Court. (See Cal. R. Ct.
3.350(a)(1)(C).)  Defendant’s Motion to
Consolidate is therefore DENIED without prejudice.