  Case Number:  22VECV01033    Hearing Date:   May 7, 2024    Dept:  107 


 
SUPERIOR COURT
  OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA
COUNTY OF LOS
  ANGELES
NORTHWEST
  DISTRICT
 




Sharon
  Whitfield Wright, by and Through her Successor in Interest Darrick Wright,
 
         Plaintiff,
 
   v.
 
Valley Grace Home, Inc, et al.
 
        
  Defendants.


   Case
  Number             Department
   22VECV01033  
       107




 
COURT’S [TENTATIVE] RULING RE: 
(1) Quash Business Records
  Subpoena
(2) Quash Business Records
  Subpoena
(3) Quash Business Records
  Subpoenas
(4) Quash Notices of Depositions
  and Business Records Subpoenas; Request for Sanctions
 
 



[THE FOLLOWING IS A TENTATIVE RULING IN THE ABOVE CASE]: 
I. BACKGROUND

Factual
     Background

 
Defendant Valley
Grace Home, Inc. (“Valley Grace”), which is owned by defendant Gregory
Mikitarian (“Mikitarian” and, together with Valley Grace, “Defendants”), is a
15-bed residential nursing facility to which plaintiff Sharon Whitfield Wright
(“Plaintiff” and, together with Defendants, “Parties” and, each, a “Party”) was
admitted as a resident patient around August 2021 because she suffered from
right-side paralysis following a prior stroke and required ‘round-the-clock
care. (Complaint pp. 1 ¶ 2, 2 ¶ 3–4, 7 ¶ 21–23, 8 ¶ 26.)
Plaintiff required a tracheostomy tube and catheter to function. (Id. at
p. 8 ¶ 26, 29.)
 
On June 22, 2022,
Plaintiff was found unresponsive at Valley Grace without her tracheostomy tube
and taken to Valley Presbyterian Hospital, where she was diagnosed with brain
damage resulting from a shortage of oxygen and blood flow in the brain for a
prolonged period. (Id. at p. 8 ¶¶ 27–28.)
 

Procedural
     Background

 
On July 22, 2022,
Plaintiff, by and through her successor in interest, Darrick Wright, filed a
complaint (the “Complaint”) against Defendants, and Does, alleging causes of
action for (1) dependent adult abuse and (2) negligence. (Id.) Plaintiff
alleges that Defendants chronically understaffed Valley Grace, that Defendants
underfunded Valley Grace to increase profits over patient welfare, that Valley
Grace’s practices violated Health and Safety and Welfare and Institutions
Codes, and that Valley Grace’s employees were unqualified and untrained. (Id.
at p. 4.) Moreover, Plaintiff alleges that Defendants did these actions,
including their abuse of Plaintiff, knowingly and intentionally. (Id. at p. 8.)
 
On January 29,
2024, Defendants served on Plaintiff deposition subpoenas for production of
business records, which sought from each of Valley Presbyterian Hospital and
Suman Patel, M.D. the “[c]omplete contents of [Plaintiff’s] file [from January
17, 2021 to June 30, 2022], including any and all correspondence, intake
sheets, questionnaires, referrals, all medical records”; all communications
between the same dates related to Plaintiff; and “[a]ll documents identifying
or reflecting any referrals regarding the care, treatment, diagnosis, or
procedures performed on [Plaintiff]” between the same dates.” (Motions Exh. 1.)
These requests each exclude “all mental health records, psychiatric physician
notes, therapist sessions, mental health diagnostic and treatment services
provided.” (Ibid.)
 
On February 14,
2024, Defendants served Plaintiff deposition subpoenas for production of
business records, which sought from each of Facey Medical Group, James S.
Moore, M.D; Rabi Alam, M.D.; and Vagharshal Pilossyan, M.D the “[c]omplete
contents of [Plaintiff’s] file [from January 17, 2021 to June 30, 2022],
including any and all correspondence, intake sheets, questionnaires, referrals,
all medical records”; all communications between the same dates related to
Plaintiff; “[a]ll documents identifying or reflecting any referrals regarding
the care, treatment, diagnosis, or procedures performed on [Plaintiff]” between
the same dates”; and all billing records between the same dates. (Motion #3
Exh. 1, Exh. 2, Exh. 3.) These requests each exclude “all mental health
records, psychiatric physician notes, therapist sessions, mental health
diagnostic and treatment services provided.” (Ibid.)
 
On February 27,
2024, Plaintiff filed a motion to quash and/or limit Defendants’ business
records subpoena served upon Valley Presbyterian Hospital (“Motion #1”), a
motion to quash and/or limit Defendants’ business records subpoena served upon
Suman Patel, M.D. (“Motion #2”), a motion to quash and/or limit Defendants’
business records subpoena served upon various business entities (“Motion #3”). 
 
On February 28,
2024, Defendants served Plaintiff deposition subpoenas for the depositions and
production of business records for six third parties: (1) James Moore, MD, (2) Rabi
Alam, MD, (3) Vagharshal Pilossyan, MD, (4) Muneeb Hussain, MD, (5) Sanket
Shrikar Kunde, MD, and (6) Suman Patel, MD. Each of these requests for
production of business records seeks the deponent’s “most recent curriculum
vitae and/or resume” and “any and all documentation and/or medical records used
to prepare for the deposition regarding [Plaintiff].” (Motion #4 Exh. 1–Exh.
6.) 
 
On March 5, 2024,
Plaintiff filed a motion to quash Defendants’ notices of deposition and
business records subpoenas served upon various business entities (“Motion #4”
and, together with Motion #1, Motion #2, and Motion #3, the “Motions”) along
with a request for sanctions. All four Motions are unopposed.
 
II. PROCEDURAL MATTERS
 

Filing Fees

 
In Motion #3, Plaintiff filed a single motion for what should have been three
separate motions. In Motion #4, Plaintiff filed a single motion for what should
have been six separate motions. Combining discovery motions allows the moving
party to avoid paying the requisite filing fees. “But while it is mandatory for
the court clerks to demand and receive statutorily required filing fees, it is
not… a jurisdictional defect if the precise fee is not collected.” (Duran v.
St. Luke’s Hospital (2003) 114 Cal.App.4th 457, 460.)  
 
Accordingly, Plaintiff is ordered to pay seven additional filing fees.
 

The Separate Statement

 
Motions to compel or quash production of documents at
depositions must be accompanied by a separate statement unless no response has
been provided to the discovery. (CRC 3.1345(a)–(b).) 
 
Plaintiff includes a separate statement with each Motion. We
are therefore satisfied that this requirement has been met.
 

Meet and Confer 

 
California Code of
Civil Procedure §¿1987.1 does not require that parties meet and confer before
the filing of a motion to quash a deposition subpoena. Thus, no declaration by Plaintiff attesting to any efforts thereto is
required.
 
III. LEGAL STANDARD
 
California Code of Civil Procedure §¿1987.1 provides, in part:¿ 
 
If a subpoena requires . . . the production of books,
documents, electronically stored information, or other things before a court, .
. . the court, upon motion reasonably made by [a party], or upon the court’s
own motion after giving counsel notice and an opportunity to be heard, may make
an order quashing the subpoena entirely, modifying it, or directing compliance
with it upon such terms or conditions as the court shall declare, including
protective orders. In addition, the court may make any other order as may be
appropriate to protect the person from unreasonable or oppressive demands,
including unreasonable violations of the right of privacy of the person.¿¿ 
¿ 
(Cal. Code Civ. Proc. §¿1987.1.)¿ 
 
A party may only discover matters, not privileged,
that are relevant to the subject matter involved in the pending action and that
are either admissible evidence or “reasonably calculated to lead to the
discovery of admissible evidence.”¿ (Cal. Code Civ. Proc. §¿2017.010.)¿ Broad
discovery requests are not reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of
admissible evidence.¿ (See Calcor Space Facility, Inc. v. Superior Court (1997)
53 Cal.App.4th 216, 224–225.)¿“[F]actors that should be considered by a trial
court in considering whether good cause has been shown to enforce a subpoena
that has been challenged by a motion to¿quash” include (1) whether “the
defendant carried his burden of showing a ‘plausible justification’ for
acquiring documents from a third party,” (2) whether “the sought material
adequately described and not overly¿broad,” (3) whether “the material [is]
reasonably available to the entity from which it is sought (and¿not¿readily
available to the defendant from other sources),” (4) whether “production¿of the
requested materials violate a third party's ‘confidentiality or privacy rights’
or intrude upon ‘any protected governmental interest,’” (5) whether the request
is timely, (6) whether “the ‘time required to¿produce¿the requested information
necessitate an unreasonable delay of defendant's trial,’” and (7) whether
“production¿of the records containing the requested information place an
unreasonable burden on the third party.” (Facebook, Inc. v. Superior Court
of San Diego County (2020) 10 Cal.5th 329, 345–47.) 
 
The scope of permissible discovery is broad and “[a]ny
doubts regarding relevance are generally resolved in favor of allowing the
discovery.” (Mercury Interactive Corp. v. Klein (2007) 158 Cal.App.4th
60, 97–98.) The broad scope of permissible discovery “is equally applicable to
discovery of information from a nonparty as it is to parties in the pending
suit.” (Johnson v. Superior Court (2000) 80 Cal.App.4th 1050, 1062,
disapproved of on other grounds by Williams v. Superior Court (2017) 3
Cal.5th 531, 557, fn. 8.)
 
“[P]atients have a state constitutional right
to privacy that protects information contained in
their medical records.” (Cross v. Superior Court (2017) 11
Cal.App.5th 305, 325.) “[M]edical records are private.” (Los Angeles Gay
& Lesbian Center v. Superior Court (2011) 194 Cal.App.4th 288, 308.) Patients
have a reasonable expectation of privacy as to their medical information that
is not directly relevant to a particular condition the patient has placed in
issue. (California Consumer Health Care Council v. Kaiser Foundation Health
Plan, Inc. (2006) 142 Cal.App.4th 21, 31.) “Mere speculation as to the
possibility that some portion of the records might be relevant to some
substantive issue does not suffice” for showing direct relevance as to private
information sought in discovery. (Davis v. Superior Court (1992) 7
Cal.App.4th 1008, 1017–20, directing trial court to grant motion to quash as to
discovery request that was not narrowly drawn to enable the court to evaluate
the appropriate extent of disclosure.) “In determining whether one has waived
the right of privacy by bringing suit, our Supreme Court has noted that
although there may be an implicit partial waiver, the scope of such waiver must
be narrowly, rather than expansively construed.” (Davis v. Superior Court
(1992) 7 Cal.App.4th 1008, 1014.) “An implicit waiver of a party's
constitutional rights encompasses only discovery directly relevant to
the plaintiff's claim and essential to the fair resolution of the lawsuit.” (Ibid.,
emphasis original.) Absent showings of direct relevance, compelling need, and
unavailability of alternative sources, a trial court only could find that a
privacy interest prevails. (Ombudsman Services of No. Cal. v. Sup. Ct. (2007)
154 Cal.App.4th 1233, 1251, disapproved on other grounds by Williams v. Sup.
Ct. (2017) 3 Cal.5th 531, 557.) “Courts must… place the burden on the
party asserting a privacy interest to establish its extent and the
seriousness of the prospective invasion, and against that showing must weigh
the countervailing interests the opposing party identifies.” (Williams v.
Superior Court
(2017) 3 Cal.5th 531, 557.)
 
“[T]here can be no
discovery of materials which are privileged. The
physician-patient privilege is codified in Evidence Code section
994, which provides, in part, that… the patient… has a privilege to
refuse to disclose… a confidential communication between patient and physician
if the privilege is claimed by… [t]he holder of the privilege.”
(Manela v. Superior Court (2009) 177 Cal.App.4th 1139, 1146, internal
citations omitted.) “[E]ven when a plaintiff files an action that places his or
her medical records at issue, waivers of constitutional rights are narrowly
construed and not lightly found.” (Bearman v. Superior Court (2004) 117
Cal.App.4th 463, 473.) “[A]lthough in seeking recovery for physical and mental
injuries plaintiffs have unquestionably waived their physician-patient and
psychotherapist-patient privileges as to all information concerning the medical
conditions which they have put in issue, past cases make clear that such waiver
extends only to information relating to the medical conditions in
question, and does not automatically open all of a
plaintiff's past medical history to scrutiny.” (Britt v. Superior Court
(1978) 20 Cal.3d 844, 849, emphasis original.) “The patient thus is not
obligated to sacrifice all privacy to seek redress for a specific mental or
emotional injury; the scope of the inquiry permitted depends upon the
nature of the injuries which the patient-litigant himself has brought before the
court.” (Id. at 864, emphasis removed.) “[T]he
privilege-claimant has the initial burden of proving
the preliminary facts to show the privilege applies. Once the
claimant establishes the preliminary facts, the burden of proof shifts
to the opponent of the privilege. To obtain disclosure, the opponent
must rebut the statutory presumption of confidentiality.” (Roman Catholic
Archbishop of Los Angeles v. Superior Court (2005) 131 Cal.App.4th 417,
442, internal citations omitted, emphasis original.)
 
California Code of
Civil Procedure section 2034.410 reads, “[o]n receipt of an expert witness list
from a party, any other party may take the deposition of any person on the
list. The procedures for taking oral and written depositions set forth in
Chapters 9 (commencing with Section 2025.010), 10 (commencing with Section
2026.010), and 11 (commencing with Section 2028.010) apply to a deposition
of a listed trial expert witness except as provided in this article.”
California Code of Civil Procedure section 2025.280, subdivision (b) states, “the
production by the [non-party] deponent of any document, electronically stored
information, or tangible thing for inspection and copying, requires the service
on the deponent of a deposition subpoena.”
 
California Code of
Civil Procedure §¿1987.2, subdivision (a) reads, “in making an order pursuant
to motion made under… Section 1987.1, the court may in its discretion award the
amount of the reasonable expenses incurred in making or opposing the motion,
including reasonable attorney's fees, if the court finds the motion was made or
opposed in bad faith or without substantial justification or that one or more
of the requirements of the subpoena was oppressive.
 
IV. DISCUSSION
 
Plaintiff charges
that, “in its overbreadth, Defendants’ subpoena[s] seeks to violate the
patient-physician privilege, right of privacy, and the Civil Discovery Act.”
(Motion #1 p. 1; Motion #2 p. 1; Motion #3 p. 2; Motion #4 p. 3.)
 
Plaintiff admits
that she has waived the patient-physician privilege as to all information
relating to the injuries and matters tendered in this lawsuit but correctly
contends that she has not consequently waived the privilege as to all of her
medical information. Plaintiff also has a right to privacy in her medical
records. The Complaint alleges that Plaintiff’s injury includes “brain damage due
to not having blood or oxygen to the brain for too long” and that such injury
resulted from Plaintiff not having her
tracheostomy
tube at all times while under Defendants’ care. Thus, the medical matters
tendered in this lawsuit for which Plaintiff has waived the patient-physician
privilege include Plaintiff’s respiratory health and brain health between the
time Plaintiff came under Defendants’ care to the present. Although we
recognize that the subpoenas do limit their requests by time, seeking records
only between January 17, 2021 to June 30, 2022, and expressly exclude
psychiatric records, by not further limiting their subject matter to those
tendered in this lawsuit, we agree with Plaintiff that all of the subpoenas’
requests are overbroad and seek information protected by Plaintiff’s privacy
rights and the patient-physician privilege. As the court stated in Cross v. Superior Court, supra, 11 Cal.App.5th at 325,
“[a]lthough confining a subpoena to a limited, defined time period
will almost always be necessary to satisfy the relevance and materiality
requirement, rarely if ever will such a time limitation alone be sufficient.”
 
The subpoena
challenged by Motion #1 is directed at Valley Presbyterian Hospital, which the
Complaint alleges is where Plaintiff was treated after being found unresponsive
without her tracheostomy tube at Defendant’s facility and presumably where
Plaintiff was diagnosed with her resulting brain injuries. Because we believe
records relating to treatment at Valley Presbyterian Hospital during
Plaintiff’s care at Defendants’ facility are clearly relevant, we find that
seeking these records, when limited by subject matter, is adequately justified.
Plaintiff argues that Motion #1 is untimely because it was not received by
Plaintiff’s counsel until February 15, 2024. At the time Motion #1 was filed,
trial was set for March 25, 2024, but it has since been rescheduled for
September 6, 2024 and the discovery cut-off extended accordingly. This change
places the subpoena challenged by Motion #1 well before the discovery cut-off
date. We therefore find that the discovery request is timely and that
production would not necessitate an unreasonable delay of trial. We also find
that the materials, when limited by subject matter, would be adequately
described and not overly¿broad; that the sought materials are reasonably
available to Valley Presbyterian Hospital but not otherwise available to
Defendants; that production, when limited by time and subject matter, would not
violate a third party's confidentiality or privacy rights or intrude upon any
protected governmental interest; and that production would not place an
unreasonable burden on Valley Presbyterian Hospital. 
 
Accordingly, this
court GRANTS Motion #1 by modifying the subpoena it challenges to limit all the
subpoena’s requests to only those records, communications, and/or documents
that are related to Plaintiff’s respiratory or brain health, condition, care,
or injuries.
 
The subpoena
challenged by Motion #2 is directed at Suman Patel, M.D, and the subpoenas
challenged by Motion #3 are directed at each of Facey Medical Group, James S.
Moore, M.D; Rabi Alam, M.D.; and Vagharshal Pilossyan, M.D. Plaintiff had
listed these third parties as non-retained experts on her expert disclosures to
Defendants. (Young Decl. ¶ 4.) Under California Code of Civil Procedure
section 2034.410, Defendants may therefore depose these parties and may seek
document production if a subpoena is served, per California Code of Civil
Procedure section 2025.280, subdivision (b). We therefore find that seeking
medical records from these third parties, when limited by time and subject
matter, is adequately justified. We also find that the materials, when limited
by subject matter, would be adequately described and not overly¿broad; that the
sought materials are reasonably available to the third parties but not
otherwise available to Defendants; that production, when limited by time and
subject matter, would not violate a third party's confidentiality or privacy
rights or intrude upon any protected governmental interest; that the discovery
request is timely; that production would not necessitate an unreasonable delay
of trial and that production would not place an unreasonable burden on any of
the third parties. 
 
Accordingly, this
court GRANTS Motion #2 by modifying the subpoena it challenges to limit all the
subpoena’s requests to only those records, communications, and/or documents
that are related to Plaintiff’s respiratory or brain health, condition, care,
or injuries. And, this court GRANTS Motion #3 by modifying the subpoenas it
challenges to limit all the subpoenas’ requests to only those records,
communications, and/or documents that are related to Plaintiff’s respiratory or
brain health, condition, care, or injuries.
 
Plaintiff argues
that all the subpoenas challenged by Motion #4 are untimely. However, like is
the case with Motion #1, at the time that Motion #4 was filed, trial was set
for March 25, 2024. However, as trial has since been rescheduled to September
6, 2024 and the discovery cut-off date similarly moved to be calculated from
the new trial date, these subpoenas are now well within the discovery period
and are no longer untimely. Plaintiff also raises that “three of these
individuals who the current notices of deposition/deposition subpoenas were
served upon… were already served deposition subpoenas by the defense on or
around February 26, 2024.” (Garcia Decl. ¶ 4.) However, Plaintiff fails to
argue why serving additional deposition subpoenas on the same third parties is
grounds for the later subpoenas to be quashed and cites no authority to that
point. We are not required to consider arguments unsupported by legal
authority, and we decline to do so here. (Mansell v. Board of Education
(1994) 30 Cal.App.4th 539, 545–46; In re S.C. (2006) 138 Cal.App.4th
396, 408 [“When a point is asserted without argument and authority
for the proposition, it is deemed to be without foundation and requires no
discussion by the reviewing court,” internal quotation marks omitted.].)
Plaintiff argues that “Defendants’ subpoenas are overbroad and seek disclosures
precluded by Plaintiff’s right of privacy” because “the subpoenas seek any and
all medical, billing and radiology records and other privileged information.”
(Motion #4 pp. 8–9.) The subpoenas challenged by Motion #4 seek only the
deponent’s resumé and “any and all documentation and/or medical records used to
prepare for the deposition regarding [Plaintiff].” We agree that this could be
broadly enough phrased to call for the discovery of information or records that
are covered by Plaintiff’s constitutional privacy right and the
patient-physician privilege and that have not been waived by this lawsuit,
which waiver should be narrowly interpreted. 
 
Accordingly, this
court GRANTS Motion #4 by modifying the subpoenas it challenges to limit each
subpoena’s second request to only that documentation and/or medical records the
deponent used to prepare for the deposition that are related to Plaintiff’s
respiratory or brain health, condition, care, or injuries.
 
Motion #4 requests
sanctions in the amount of $3,560.00 against Defendants and Defendants’
attorneys payable to Plaintiff’s attorneys. Under California Code of Civil
Procedure §¿1987.2, subdivision (a), sanctions in the amount of the reasonable
expenses incurred in making the motion are discretionary. We fail to find that
Motion #4 was opposed in bad faith or without substantial justification or that
one or more of the requirements of the subpoenas challenged by Motion #4 were
oppressive.
 
This court
therefore DENIES Motion #4’s request for sanctions.
 
 
Dated:             May
7, 2024                                                     _______­­­­­­­­­        Hon.
Eric Harmon
   Judge
of the Superior Court