 Case Number:  23VECV05286    Hearing Date:   May 7, 2024    Dept:  107 


 
SUPERIOR COURT
  OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA
COUNTY OF LOS
  ANGELES
NORTHWEST
  DISTRICT
 




Jiran
  Saevitzon,
 
         Plaintiff,
 
   v.
 
Mill
  City Mortgage Loan Trust 2017-3, Wilmington Savings Fund Society, as trustee;
  Trustee Corps; New Rez LLC d/b/a Shellpoint Mortgage Servicing; and Does 1–50,
 
        
  Defendants.


   Case
  Number             Department
   23VECV05286  
       107




 
COURT’S [TENTATIVE] RULING RE: 
Preliminary
  Injunction
 



[THE FOLLOWING IS A TENTATIVE RULING IN THE ABOVE CASE]: 
 
I. BACKGROUND
 
Plaintiff
Jiran Saevitzon (“Plaintiff”) owns and resides at a certain residential
property (the “Property”), which is encumbered by a certain first deed of trust
(the “Deed of Trust”). (Complaint pp. 1–2.) Defendant Mill City Mortgage Loan Trust
2017-3, Wilmington Savings Fund Society, as trustee (“Mill City”) is the
assignee of the original lender and current holder of the Deed of Trust. (Id.
at p. 1.) Defendant Trustee Corps is the acting trustee under the Deed of
Trust. (Id. at p. 2.) Defendant New Rez LLC d/b/a Shellpoint Mortgage
Servicing (“Shellpoint” and, together with Mill City and Trustee Corps,
“Defendants” and Defendants, together with Plaintiff, “Parties”) is the
mortgage servicer for Mill City. (Ibid.)
 
Parties dispute how much is due
under Plaintiff’s loan. (Id. at p. 3.) Defendants caused a notice of
sale to be issued and recorded and plan to conduct a foreclosure sale on the
Property. (Ibid.) Plaintiff plans to sell the Property, but Defendants
refused to postpone the foreclosure sale. (Ibid.)
 
On November 30, 2023, Plaintiff
initiated this lawsuit by filing a complaint (the “Complaint”) that alleges
causes of action for declaratory relief, injunctive relief, an accounting,
breach of the covenant of good faith and fair dealing, and wrongful foreclosure.
 
On December 1, 2023, Plaintiff
sold the Property. (Saevitzon Decl. ¶ 2.)
 
On December 4, 2024, a temporary
restraining order enjoining Defendants from conducting a foreclosure sale on or
selling the Property was issued.
 
On December 18, 2023, Plaintiff
filed an unopposed motion for preliminary injunction (the “Motion”). 
 
II. LEGAL STANDARD
            
California Code of Civil
Procedure section 526 provides that an injunction may be granted
“[w]hen it appears by the complaint that the plaintiff is entitled to the
relief demanded, and the relief, or any part thereof, consists in restraining
the commission or continuance of the act complained of, either for a limited
period or perpetually.” Section 527, subdivision (a) provides that
a preliminary injunction may be granted upon an affidavit which
shows the existence of sufficient grounds for the issuance of an injunction.
 
“The trial courts consider two
interrelated questions in deciding whether to issue a preliminary injunction:
1) are the plaintiffs likely to suffer greater injury from a denial of the
injunction than the defendants are likely to suffer from its grant; and 2)
is there a reasonable probability that the plaintiffs will prevail on the
merits.” (Robbins v. Superior Court (1985) 38 Cal.3d 199, 206.)
“Plaintiff carries the burden of proof and persuasion on these issues.” (Drakes
Bay Oyster Co. v. California Coastal Com. (2016) 4 Cal.App.5th 1165, 1172.)
“[A] court may deny a preliminary injunction either (1)
on its finding irreparable injury will not result to the party seeking the
injunction, or (2) that the party has failed to demonstrate a reasonable
probability of success on the merits.” (Jessen v. Keystone Savings &
Loan Assn. (1983) 142 Cal.App.3d 454, 459, emphasis original.) “Regardless
of the balance of interim harm, the preliminary injunction cannot be allowed to
stand unless there is ‘some possibility’ [the plaintiff] will prevail on the
merits of its action.” (Costa Mesa City Employees' Ass'n v. City of Costa
Mesa (2012) 209 Cal.App.4th 298, 309.)
 
“Given the drastic implications
of a foreclosure, it is not surprising to find courts quite frequently
granting preliminary injunctions to forestall this remedy while
the court considers a case testing whether it is justified under the facts and
law.” (Baypoint Mortgage Corp. v. Crest Premium Real Estate etc. Trust
(1985) 168 Cal.App.3d 818, 825.)
            
III. ANALYSIS 
 
We first consider which of the
Parties is likely to suffer greater injury upon the grant or denial of the
injunction. Here, the Defendants seek to foreclose on and hold a foreclosure
sale of the Property. “Should they prevail at trial, the worst they would have
suffered will have been some delay in foreclosure.” (Baypoint Mortgage Corp.
v. Crest Premium Real Estate etc. Trust, supra, 168 Cal.App.3d at
824.) Plaintiff’s debt to them is still protected by the Deed of Trust. The
Plaintiff, on the other hand, stands to lose the additional equity she claims
she will realize through the sale she closed on December 1, 2023 as well as
being chargeable with the foreclosure expenses. Additionally, if a foreclosure
sale of the Property were held, Plaintiff’s first cause of action for
declaratory relief “with respect to whether a foreclosure sale of the Property,
threatened by Defendants, is improper, as Plaintiffs contend, and with respect
to all of the rights of the parties respecting the Property and the Loan” would
be rendered partially moot, and Plaintiff’s second cause of action for
injunctive relief and prayer for an injunction “to enjoin and prohibit
defendants and any others in concert with any of them, from proceeding with any
foreclosure proceedings, including any notice of a sale or attempted sale of
the Property and any conduct in preparation for or toward foreclosure and sale
of the Property” would be rendered entirely moot or useless. (Complaint pp.
3–4, 6.) We therefore conclude that Plaintiff faces greater harm from denial of
the injunction than Defendants would from its issuance.
 
Next, we consider whether there
is a reasonable probability that Plaintiff will prevail on the merits.
Plaintiff argues she has a reasonable probability of succeeding on the merits
of her claim because (1) injunctive relief is “proper and particularly appropriate
in this case” given that “the amount in default is uncertain, unsettled,
doubtful and disputed”; (2) the notice of default received by Plaintiff was
erroneous; (3) and Plaintiff is, “at the very least,” entitled to an accounting
to determine the amount of debt outstanding under her loan. We agree that
Plaintiff is likely to prevail at least as to her claims for injunctive relief
and accounting, and, the Motion being unopposed, Defendants do not challenge
these arguments.
 
Accordingly, this court GRANTS
the Motion.
 
 
Dated:             May
7, 2024                                                    _______­­­­­­­­­­___________________________                                                                                                                  Hon.
Eric Harmon
Judge
of the Superior Court