 Case Number:  24STCV03345    Hearing Date:   December 4, 2024    Dept:  73 12/04/24
Dept. 73
Hon. Rolf Treu, Judge presiding
 
MP 3600, LLC v. CHOI, et al. (24STCV03345)
 
Counsel for
Plaintiff and Cross Defendants/moving party: 
Frank Lee (Law Offices of Frank Lee) 
Counsel for
Defendants and Cross-Complainants/opposing party:  Franklin Ferguson 
 
demurrer TO CROSS-complaint (filed 10/22/24)
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 
Cross-Defendant Park’s demurrer to the Cross-Complaint’s fourth and
fifth causes of action are SUSTAINED with 20 days leave to amend.
 
Cross-Defendant Park’s demurrer to the Cross-Complaint’s first, second,
third, sixth and seventh causes of action are OVERRULED. 
 
I. BACKGROUND
 
On February 8, 2024, Plaintiff MP 3600, LLC filed this action
against Defendants Enna Choi and Jinna Choi. 
 
The
Complaint alleges the following causes of action: 
1.     
Fraud
and Deceit;
2.     
Conversion;
and 
3.     
Common
Counts.
 
The Complaint alleges the following. Defendants were employed by Plaintiff
as a starter/assistant manager and a starter/cashier. Defendants issued range
ball cards at a 100% discount and then would sell the cards at full price or at
a partially discounted price and kept the sales proceeds. This fraudulent
activity occurred during the period from May 2019 through May 2021 when the
Defendants were terminated by Plaintiff after the discovery of the theft by
Defendants. Plaintiff alleges damages in an amount excess of $50,000. 
 
On August 28, 2024, Cross-Complainants Enna Choi, Jin Na Choi and
Ein Choi filed a Cross-Complaint against Cross-Defendants MP 3600, LLC,
Benjamin Park and Justin Kim. 
 
The Cross-Complaint alleges the following causes of action:
1.     
Discrimination in Violation of the Fair Employment and Housing
Act, Government Code §12940 (a), on the Bases of Gender, Race and National
Origin; 
2.     
Failure to Prevent Discrimination in Violation of the Fair
Employment and Housing Act, Government Code §12940(k), on the Bases of Gender,
Race and National Origin; 
3.     
Gender-Based Disparate Pay in Violation of Labor Code §1197.5(h); 
4.     
Defamation 
5.     
Intimidation by Threat of Violence Based Upon Gender in Violation
of Ralph Civil Rights Act, Civil Code §§51, 51 and 52 (b)(2); 
6.     
Breach of Contract; 
7.     
Breach of the Covenant of Good Faith and Fair Dealing.
 
The Cross-Complaint alleges the following. MP 3600, LLC is in the
business of recreational golf services, including the provision of private
lessons by golf professionals. Cross-Defendant Benjamin Park was the principal
owner of MP 3600, LLC and Cross-Defendant Justin Kim was the assistant manager
and a golf instructor at MP 3600, LLC. Cross-Complainants were employed by MP
3600, LLC and allege various labor violations by Cross-Defendants.
Cross-Complainants also allege they were falsely accused of theft. 
 
On October 22, 2024, Cross-Defendant Benjamin Park (“Park”) filed the
instant demurrer to the Cross-Complaint, arguing:
·       The entire
cross-complaint is uncertain or vague. 
·       Park demurs
to the first, second, third, fourth, fifth, sixth and seventh causes of action
for failing to state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action. 
·       The only
counts expressly pled against Park are the fourth and fifth causes of action
for defamation and Park's alleged violation of Civ. Code sections 51 and 52.
Nevertheless, in an abundance of caution, since Park's seeks a demurrer to the
entire pleading.
·       As to the
fifth cause of action, Cross-Complainants incorrectly rely solely on Civ. Code sections
51 and 52. However, the relevant law encompassing the alleged threats is the
Tom Bane Civil Rights Act, Civ. Code section 52.1.
·       Both fourth
and fifth causes of action fail to state causes of action against Defendant
Park because the facts alleged in the pleading reflect supposed misconduct by
Cross-Defendant Justin Kim ("Kim"), not Cross-Defendant Park.
 
No opposition or reply were filed.
 
II. ANALYSIS
 
A.      Meet and
Confer Requirement 
 
“Before
filing a demurrer pursuant to this chapter, the demurring party shall meet and confer
in person or by telephone with the party who filed the pleading that is subject
to demurrer for the purpose of determining whether an agreement can be reached
that would resolve the objections to be raised in the demurrer.” (Code Civ.
Proc., § 430.41, subd. (a).)  
 
Here, counsel for Park submitted a declaration stating he sent
an email to Plaintiffs’ counsel identifying the alleged deficiencies in the Cross-Complaint
on September 18, 2024, and had a telephonic meet and confer conference with Cross-Complainants
counsel the following day. (Lee Decl., ¶ 3.)
The Court finds the moving party satisfied its meet and confer obligation. Thus, the Court proceeds on
the merits.
 
B.      Legal
Standard for Demurrer
 
A demurrer
tests the sufficiency of whether the complaint states a cause of action. (Hahn
v. Mirda (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747.) When considering demurrers,
courts read the allegations liberally and in context—any defects must be
apparent on the face of the pleading or via proper judicial notice. (Donabedian
v. Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994.) “A demurrer tests the
pleading alone, and not the evidence or facts alleged.” (E-Fab, Inc. v.
Accountants, Inc. Servs. (2007) 153 Cal.App.4th 1308, 1315.) As such, the
court assumes the truth of the complaint’s properly pleaded or implied factual
allegations. (Id.) The only issue a demurrer is concerned with is
whether the complaint, as it stands, states a cause of action. (Hahn,
supra, 147 Cal.App.4th at p. 747.)
 
C.      Fourth Cause
of Action: Defamation
 
Park demurs
to the fourth cause of action for defamation for failure to state a cause of
action. 
 
“The elements
of a defamation claim are (1) a publication that is (2) false, (3) defamatory,
(4) unprivileged, and (5) has a natural tendency to injure or causes special
damage. The defamatory statement must specifically refer to, or be of and
concerning, the plaintiff.” (John Doe 2 v. Superior Court (2016) 1
Cal.App.5th 1300, 1312, quotation marks and citation omitted.) 
 
The Cross-Complaint
states that “Cross Defendants and their agents made false statements about
Cross Claimants to more than one person. These statements were damaging to
Cross Claimants’ professional and personal reputations and were substantial
factors to the causation of Cross Complainants’ injuries.” (Cross-Complaint ¶ 65.)
 
The Court does not find these allegations sufficient to state a
cause of action for defamation. The Cross-Complaint fails to specify any false
statements or publications made by Park. While the Cross-Complaint alleges that
Cross-Defendant Kim ruined Cross-Complainant Ein Choi’s reputation by false
rumors and accusations of theft, these allegations are not sufficient to
constitute a cause of action. (Cross-Complaint ¶
20.)
 
Accordingly, the fourth cause of action is SUSTAINED with leave to
amend. 
 
8.     
Fifth Cause of Action: Intimidation by Threat of Violence Based
Upon Gender in Violation of Ralph Civil Rights Act, Civil Code §§ 51, 51 and 52
(b)(2)
 
Park demurs
to the fifth cause of action for Civil Code sections 51 and 52 violations for
failure to state a cause of action. 
 
The elements
of a claim for violations of the Ralph Civil Rights Act are (1) the defendant
committed a violent act against the plaintiff or his or her property; (2) a
motivating reason for the defendant’s conduct was his perception of the
plaintiff’s perception of the plaintiff’s race or disability; (3) the plaintiff
was harmed; and (4) the defendant’s conduct was a substantial factor in causing
the plaintiff’s harm. (Civ. Code, § 51.7, subd. (a); Austin B. v. Escondido
Union School Dist. (2007) 149 Cal.App.4th 860, 880-881.) 
 
The
Cross-Complaint states that Cross-Defendants violated Cross-Complainants’ civil
rights, “specifically by males threatening to inflict physical harm upon
females.” (Cross-Complaint
¶ 68.)
 
Park first argues that the relevant law encompassing the alleged threats is the Tom Bane Civil Rights
Act, Civ. Code section 52.1. Nevertheless, Park
argues that the Cross-Complaint fails to allege misconduct by Park. 
 
The Court agrees that the Cross-Complaint fails to state a cause
of action. The Cross-Complaint alleges that Cross-Defendant Kim “physically intimidated” Enna Choi into writing an apology and
resignation letter. (Cross-Complaint ¶
31.) The Cross-Complaint also alleges that Kim often mistreated Jin Na Choi and was aggressive toward her. (Cross-Complaint ¶ 46.) In
addition, after accusing Jin Na Choi of theft, Kim threatened
to ruin her life and career and told her to “watch her back.” (Cross-Complaint ¶
46.) However, the Cross-Complaint fails to allege any threats by Park. 
 
Based on the foregoing, the fifth cause of action is SUSTAINED
with leave to amend. 
 
D.     First,
Second, Third, Sixth and Seventh Causes of Action
 
Park’s Notice
of Demurrer indicates that Park is demurring to the entire Cross-Complaint.
However, only the fourth and fifth causes of action are alleged against Park. The
first, second, third, sixth and seventh causes of action are only alleged
against Cross-Defendant MP 3600, LLC. In addition, the body of Park’s Demurrer
focuses on the fourth and fifth causes of action, and fails to present any
argument as to how the first, second, third, sixth and seventh causes of action
fail to state a cause of action. 
 
Therefore,
the Court OVERRULES the Demurrer to the first, second, third, sixth and seventh
causes of action. 
 
E.      Uncertainty
 
Park also demurs to the entire Cross-Complaint
on the basis of uncertainty. 
 
CCP section 430.10(f) provides that a
pleading is uncertain if it is ambiguous and unintelligible. (See Code Civ.
Proc., § 430.10(f).) “A demurrer for uncertainty is strictly construed, even
where a complaint is in some respects uncertain, because ambiguities can be
clarified under modern discovery procedures.” (Khoury v. Maly’s of California, Inc. (1993) 14 Cal.App.4th 612,
616.) “A demurrer for uncertainty will be sustained only where the complaint is
so bad that defendant cannot reasonably
respond—i.e., he or she cannot reasonably determine what issues must be
admitted or denied, or what counts or claims are directed against him or her.”
(Weil & Brown, Civil Procedure Before Trial (The Rutter Group) § 7:85
(emphasis in original).) “The objection of uncertainty does not go to the
failure to allege sufficient facts.” (Brea
v. McGlashan (1934) 3 Cal.App.2d 454, 459.) “It goes to the doubt as to
what the pleader means by the facts alleged.” (Id.) “Such a demurrer should not be sustained where the allegations
of the complaint are sufficiently clear to apprise the defendant of the issues
which he is to meet.” (People v. Lim (1941) 18 Cal.2d 872, 882.) 
 
The Court does not find Cross-Complaint’s
causes of action are uncertain. The demurrer is not sustained on this ground. 
 
III. DISPOSITION

 
Cross-Defendant Park’s demurrer to the
Cross-Complaint’s fourth and fifth causes of action are SUSTAINED with 20 days
leave to amend.
 
Cross-Defendant Park’s demurrer to the
Cross-Complaint’s first, second, third, sixth and seventh causes of action are
OVERRULED. 