 Case Number:  24STCV07614    Hearing Date:   December 4, 2024    Dept:  73 12/04/2024
Dept. 73
Hon. Rolf Treu, Judge presiding
 
EDEN v. EDCO STATION, INC., et al. (24STCV07614)
 
Counsel
for Plaintiff/moving party:  Jarrett
Charo (Jarrett Charo, APC); Joseph Manning (Manning Law, APC) 
Counsel
for Defendants: N/A
 
MOTION FOR ENTRY OF STIPULATED CONSENT JUDGMENT (filed 10/10/2024)
 
TENTATIVE
RULING 
 
The
Motion for Entry of Stipulated Consent Judgment is GRANTED. 
 
I. BACKGROUND
 
This is a Proposition 65 case.  On March 26, 2024, Plaintiff Ramy
Kaufler Eden filed this action against Defendants EDCO Stations, Inc.; TABBAA
Family Limited Partnership; and TABBA Management Company for their alleged
failure to provide clear and reasonable warnings under Proposition 65
(violations of Health & Safety Code § 25249.6).  
 
The Complaint alleges the following. Defendants own and operate
the service station located at 5050 E. Olympic Blvd., Los Angeles, California
90022 (“Subject Service Station”). Defendants expose individuals who come onto the Subject Service
Station’s premises to Gasoline without first warning of such exposure. By
exposing individuals to Gasoline at the Subject Service Station without
providing any warnings whatsoever about the carcinogenic hazards associated
with Gasoline exposure, Defendants violate the warning provision of Proposition
65. (See Health & Saf. Code § 25249.6.)
 
On October 10, 2024, Plaintiff filed a Motion for Entry of
Stipulated Consent Judgment. Plaintiff brings this motion on the grounds that
the Parties have entered a Proposed Stipulated Consent Judgment that meets the
requirements for court approval pursuant to HSC § 25249.7(f).
 
No opposition was filed.
II.
DISCUSSION
 
Plaintiff brings this motion pursuant to Cal. Health & Safety
Code § 25249.7(f). Plaintiff argues that the Consent Judgment meets the
requirements of HSC § 25249.7(f)(4) because the injunctive relief complies with
Proposition 65, the attorneys’ fees are reasonable, and the civil penalties are
reasonable.  
 
A.     
Legal Standard
 
The Safe Drinking Water and Toxic Enforcement Act of 1986,
colloquially known as Proposition 65, was passed as a ballot initiative by the
California voters, and was designed to generally protect the public from
unknowing exposure to, harmful chemicals. (See generally 12¿Witkin, Summary of
California Law 10th (2005) Real Property, § 894, p. 1075.)¿ Health & Safety
Code (“H&SC”) § 25249.7 governs the enforcement of Proposition 65.¿
Proposition 65 has both public and private enforcement mechanisms.¿ (See
H&SC § 25249.7(c), (d).)¿ Violations are punishable by injunction (H&SC
§ 24259.7(a)) and civil penalty (H&SC § 24259.7(b)).¿ In the case of
private enforcement actions, parties may also recover attorney’s fees, pursuant
to the provisions in CCP § 1021.5, governing actions concerning important
rights affecting the public interest.¿¿¿ 
 
Health & Safety Code § 24259.7(f) governs the role of the
Court in approving settlements and consent judgments for private actions to enforce
Proposition 65.¿ Section 24259.7(f)(4) provides, in relevant part, that:¿ 
¿ 
If there is a
settlement of an action brought by a person in the public interest under
subdivision (d), the plaintiff shall submit the settlement, other than a
voluntary dismissal in which no consideration is received¿from the defendant,
to the court for approval upon noticed motion, and the court may approve the
settlement only if the court makes all of the following findings:¿ 
¿ 
(a) The
warning that is required by the settlement complies with this chapter.¿ 
(b) The award
of attorney’s fees is reasonable under California law.¿ 
(c) The
penalty amount is reasonable based on the criteria set forth in paragraph (2)
of subdivision (b).¿ 
 
“To stamp a consent agreement with the judicial imprimatur, the
court must determine the proposed settlement is just….In¿the context of
Proposition 65 litigation, necessarily brought to vindicate the public
interest, the trial court also must ensure that its judgment serves the public
interest.”¿(Consumer Advocacy Group, Inc. v. Kintetsu Enterprises of America¿(2006)141
Cal.App.4th 46, 61.)¿ 
¿ 
B.     
Injunctive Relief
 
Plaintiff argues that the injunctive relief complies with
Proposition 65. 
 
The Consent Judgment requires Defendants to provide the “safe
harbor” warning for service stations set forth in the California Code of
Regulations (“Warning”) at the Subject Station. (Consent Judgment, at § 3.1
(setting forth the Warning Defendants must provide at the Subject Station);
Cal. Code Regs. tit. 27, § 25607.26(a);Cal. Code Regs. tit. 27, § 25607.27(a).)
Since the Warning in the Consent Judgment mirrors the safe harbor warning set
forth in the Code of Regulations, the Court finds this warning is clear,
reasonable and complies with 27 CCR §§ 25600(a). 
 
C.     
Attorney’s Fees
 
Next, Plaintiff argues that the attorney fees are reasonable. 
 
Plaintiff requests attorneys’ fees in the total amount of $16,000.
Under 11 CCR § 3201(d), the hourly fees “should be those reasonable for
attorneys of similar skill and experience in the relevant market area.”
Further, subsection (e) provides that the time spent on the matter should be
kept, and “describe the nature of the work performed.” (11 CCR § 3201(e)). 
 
Here, Plaintiff asserts that his counsel devoted more than 50
hours and incurred more than $34,000 in fees and costs in bringing this matter
to resolution. (Charo Decl. ¶ 12; Manning Decl. ¶¶ 3, 4.) Nonetheless,
Plaintiff asserts counsel seeks less than half of this amount to compensate
them for all fees and costs incurred in this matter. Plaintiff provided a
summary of the hours spent and counsel’s experience. (Charo Decl., Ex. C; ¶¶ 12-19;
Manning Decl. ¶¶ 3, 4.) The Court finds Plaintiff’s attorney’s fees reasonable.
 
D.    
Civil Penalties
 
Plaintiff contends that the civil penalties are reasonable. Under
HSC § 25249.7, courts look at certain factors when assessing the civil
penalties amount. The factors include:  
 
(A) The
nature and extent of the violation. 
(B) The
number of, and severity of, the violations. 
(C) The
economic effect of the penalty on the violator. 
(D) Whether
the violator took good faith measures to comply with this chapter and the time
these measures were taken. 
(E) The
willfulness of the violator's misconduct. 
(F) The
deterrent effect that the imposition of the penalty would have on both the
violator and the regulated community as a whole. 
(G) Any other
factor that justice may require.   
 
Here, the Consent Judgment provides for a total civil penalty of
$4,000.00.
 
When looking at the factors, the civil penalties are reasonable.
First, the nature of the violation is that Defendants exposed individuals to
Gasoline at a single service station without first providing a clear and
reasonable warning of such exposure. Second, the severity of the violation is
moderate in
nature in that, while Defendants failed to provide members of the public with
the requisite Prop. 65 warnings at one of Defendants’ service stations, those
who came onto Defendants’ premises were still aware that they would be exposed
to Gasoline there. Given that the challenged exposures took place at only one service
station, a penalty slightly lower than the median of $5,000 is appropriate and
consistent with the penalties approved by courts in other Proposition 65 service
station matters. (Charo Decl. ¶ 20.) Third, the economic effect of the penalty
has sufficient economic effect to deter any future violations by them and
others in the industry since the judgment would be public record. 
¿ 
Lastly, the settlement serves the public interest. Here, the Subject
Station initially had no warnings but now Defendants have agreed to provide
Warning. Plaintiff contends that Defendants represented that after receiving
the Notices, they posted the Warning called for by the Consent Judgment at the
Subject Station and have agreed, via the Consent Judgment, to continue to do
so. (Charo Decl. ¶ 22.)
 
Based
on the foregoing, the Court grants the Motion. The requirements set forth in
HSC § 25249.7 et seq. have been satisfied. Furthermore, the penalties assessed
are reasonable as well as the attorneys’ fees. Lastly, this settlement serves
the public interest. Therefore, The Motion for Entry of Stipulated Consent
Judgment is GRANTED. 
 
III. DISPOSITION
 
The
Motion for Entry of Stipulated Consent Judgment is GRANTED. 