  Case Number:  21STCV42721    Hearing Date:   February 28, 2024    Dept:  30 Dept.
30
Calendar
No.
Juda
vs. Wind, et. al., Case No. 21STCV42721
Tentative Ruling re:  Defendant’s Motion to Set Aside Default
 
Defendant Moziko Wind (“Defendant”) moves for an order
setting aside the judgment entered against him on July
27, 2023. The motion is denied.
 
“The court may, upon any terms as
may be just, relieve a party or his or her legal representative from a
judgment, dismissal, order, or other proceeding taken against him or her
through his or her mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or excusable neglect.” (Code
Civ. Proc., § 473, subd. (b).)  
This relief is available to a
party as a matter of form provided that the party, “no more than six months
after entry of judgment, [] in proper form, and [] accompanied by an attorney’s
sworn affidavit attesting to his or her mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or
neglect, [makes a motion to] vacate […] [the] default judgment or dismissal
entered against [the party], unless the court finds that the default or
dismissal was not in fact caused by the attorney’s mistake, inadvertence,
surprise, or neglect.”  (Code Civ. Proc.,
§¿473, subd. (b).)
 
Plaintiff commenced the instant
action on November 19, 2021.  When
Defendants failed to timely answer, defaults were entered on March 23,
2022.  The defaults were set aside by
stipulation and Defendants answered on May 5, 2022.  Both Defendants were represented by
counsel.  Pursuant to motion filed on
September 30, 2022, Defendants’ counsel was relieved on October 31, 2022.  Counsel served the Court’s order relieving
him as counsel on Defendants.  The order
reflected a trial date of July 10, 2023 and a final status conference on June
30, 2023.  After counsel was relieved, Defendants
had ample time to find new counsel or prepare to defend themselves at
trial.  
On June 27, 2023, Plaintiff filed
and served his trial documents.  Plaintiff
appeared at the final status conference on June 30, 2023; Defendants did not
appear by counsel or otherwise and did not file any trial documents.  Plaintiff gave notice to Defendants that the
trial remained set for July 10 and that the Court had set an order to show
cause why sanctions should not be imposed for Defendants’ failure to appear and
failure to file trial documents. 
On July 10, 2023, Defendant
Stephanie Betesh appeared remotely and requested a continuance of the
trial.  That request was denied.  Attorney Arash Kahen purported to appear on
behalf of Defendant Wind but had not filed a substitution of attorney.  (The substitution of attorney was not filed
until July 13, 2023.)  Defendant Wind was
not present.  Counsel Kahen’s request for
a continuance was also denied.  Plaintiff
objected to the remote appearance of Defendant Betesh because the proper notice
had not been filed.  The Court found that
the Defendants had forfeited their right to present evidence since they had not
filed any trial documents.  The Plaintiff
then presented his evidence to the Court. 
The Court found in favor of Plaintiff and Judgment was entered on July
27, 2023.
 
On January 4, 2024, Defendant Wind filed the instant motion.  Defendant asserts that the motion is timely
because the original hearing date for the motion was October 30, 2023.  The Court has no record of any motion set for
hearing on that date.
 
Defendant moves to vacate the judgment pursuant to CCP
Section 473(b).  Defendant’s counsel
declares that he mistakenly believed he could appear for Defendant without
filing a substitution of attorney and request a continuance.  Plaintiff argues that Defendant is not
entitled to such relief because Defendant failed to appear at trial and
therefore mandatory relief is not available. 
A judgment following trial in defendant’s absence is not the procedural equivalent
of a default under Section 473(b).  (Vandermoon
v. Sanwong (2006) 142 Cal.App.4th 315, 321.)  
The Court agrees with Plaintiff.  Defendant had notice of the trial date as of
November 1, 2022 by virtue of the order relieving prior counsel, well before
Defendant began experiencing health problems. 
Defendant did not even contact counsel until two days before the trial
and Defendant did not appear for the trial and did not file any trial
documents.  Under these circumstances,
relief under Section 473(b) is not available. 
 
Plaintiff also argues that Defendant has not alleged facts
entitling him to relief under the statute because mandatory relief is only
available if the party’s “attorney is the sole cause of the default
judgment.” (Lang v. Hochman (2000) 77 Cal.App.4th 1225, 1248.) Here,
Plaintiff states that Defendant contributed to counsel’s failure to appear at
trial because Defendant failed to timely retain counsel and declined to appear
and present evidence even though he had the opportunity. 
            Again, the
Court agrees with Plaintiff in that Defendant is not entitled to mandatory
relief under section 473(b) because Defendant has contributed to the conduct
which resulted in the adverse judgment. Defendant failed to timely seek counsel
and alert the Court and parties as to his health issues which may affect his
preparation for trial. Defendant fails to sufficiently address how this neglect
was excusable. 
 
Alternatively, Defendant requests that the Court grant
relief from judgment pursuant to its inherent and equitable powers under Code
of Civil Procedure section 128(a)(8). The statute states:
Every court shall have the power to do all of the following:

…
(8) To amend
and control its process and orders so as to make them conform to law and
justice. An appellate court shall not reverse or vacate a duly entered judgment
upon an agreement or stipulation of the parties unless the court finds both of
the following:
(A) There is
no reasonable possibility that the interests of nonparties or the public will
be adversely affected by the reversal.
(B) The
reasons of the parties for requesting reversal outweigh the erosion of public
trust that may result from the nullification of a judgment and the risk that
the availability of stipulated reversal will reduce the incentive for pretrial
settlement.
 
Defendant asserts that the Court should vacate the judgment
to allow Defendant to defend himself, especially given that he has a
meritorious case. 
 
            In
opposition, Plaintiff argues that a request for new trial is inappropriate
because Defendant failed to timely move for new trial pursuant to Code of Civil
Procedure section 659 which requires a moving party to file such a motion
within 15 days of the date of notice of entry of judgment. 
 
            The Court
agrees with Plaintiff. It appears that the relief that Defendant seeks is not
limited to an order vacating the judgment but also an order for new trial.
Defendant has failed to meet the time requirements for this request and is
thereby time-barred from requesting new trial. 
 
             