  Case Number:  22STCV35224    Hearing Date:   January 16, 2024    Dept:  54 


Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles




 
Delsy Marisela Renoj Barrios, et al.,


 
 
 
Plaintiffs,


 
Case No.:
 


 
22STCV35224




 
vs.


 


 
Tentative Ruling
 




 
1864 Cordova Street LLC, et al.,


 
 
 
Defendants.


 


 




 


 


 


 



 
Hearing Date: January 16, 2024
Department 54, Judge Maurice A. Leiter
Motion for Leave to File
Cross-Complaint
Moving Party: Cross-Defendant KKR Investment
Properties, LLC
Responding Party: None
 
T/R:      CROSS-DEFENDANT KKR’S MOTION FOR LEAVE
TO FILE A CROSS-COMPLAINT IS GRANTED.
 
CROSS-DEFENDANT TO NOTICE. 
 
If the parties wish to submit on the tentative, please
email the courtroom at SMCdept54@lacourt.org with
notice to opposing counsel (or self-represented party) before 8:00 am on the
day of the hearing.
 
The Court considers the moving papers.
No opposition has been received. 
 
“A party who fails to plead a cause of
action. . . whether through oversight, inadvertence, mistake,
neglect, or other cause, may apply to the court for leave to amend his
pleading, or to file a cross-complaint, to assert such cause at any time during
the course of the action.  The court,
after notice to the adverse party, shall grant, upon such terms as may be just
to the parties, leave to amend the pleading, or to file the cross-complaint, to
assert such cause if the party who failed to plead the cause acted in good
faith.  This subdivision shall be
liberally construed to avoid forfeiture of causes of action.”  (CCP § 426.50.)  
 
This is a habitability action.
Cross-Defendant KKR, a former owner of the subject premises, moves for leave to
file a cross-complaint against Viren Iswhwarlal Patel and Jaynti Patel, who
leased the premises during KKR’s ownership. KKR asserts the Patels were
responsible for maintaining the premises pursuant to their commercial lease.
KKR seeks indemnity and contribution from the Patels. The Court will allow
leave to file a cross-complaint.
 
Cross-Defendant's motion is GRANTED.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 