 Case Number:  23STCV27510    Hearing Date:   January 16, 2024    Dept:  54 


Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles




 
O Y K Properties, LLC,


 
 
 
Plaintiff,


 
Case No.:
 


 
23STCV27510




 
vs.


 


 
Tentative Ruling
 




 
Main Tec USA, Inc., et al.,


 
 
 
Defendants.


 


 




 


 


 


 



 
Hearing Date: January 16, 2024
Department 54, Judge Maurice A. Leiter
Demurrer to Complaint 
Moving Party: Defendants Main Tec USA, Inc. And Oh
Hyun Nam
Responding Party: Plaintiff O Y K Properties, LLC
 
T/R:      DEFENDANTS’ DEMURRER IS OVERRULED.
 
DEFENDANTS TO FILE AND SERVE AN ANSWER
TO THE COMPLAINT WITHIN 30 DAYS OF NOTICE OF RULING.
 
DEFENDANT TO NOTICE. 
 
If the parties wish to submit on the tentative, please
email the courtroom at SMCdept54@lacourt.org with
notice to opposing counsel (or self-represented party) before 8:00 am on the
day of the hearing.
 
The Court considers the moving papers,
opposition, and reply.
 
BACKGROUND
                
On November 8, 2023, Plaintiff A O Y K
Properties, LLC filed a commercial unlawful detainer complaint against
Defendants Main Tec USA, Inc. And Oh Hyun Nam.
 
ANALYSIS
 
A demurrer to a complaint may be taken
to the whole complaint or to any of the causes of action in it.  (CCP § 430.50(a).)  A demurrer challenges only the legal
sufficiency of the complaint, not the truth of its factual allegations or the
plaintiff's ability to prove those allegations. 
(Picton v. Anderson Union High Sch. Dist. (1996) 50 Cal.
App. 4th 726, 732.)  The court must treat
as true the complaint's material factual allegations, but not contentions,
deductions or conclusions of fact or law. 
(Id. at 732-33.)  The
complaint is to be construed liberally to determine whether a cause of action
has been stated.  (Id. at 733.)
 
Defendants demur to the complaint on
the ground that Plaintiff overstated the amount of rent due in the 3-day Notice
to Pay Rent or Quit.[1]
 
Defendants assert that the inclusion of
the late fees due on the unpaid rent in the notice renders the notice defective.
Defendants cite no authority showing the inclusion of late fees is an
overstatement of rent. In fact, at least one case cited by Defendants found the
opposite. (Canal-Randolf Anaheim, Inc. v. Wilkoski (1978) 78 Cal.App.3d
477, 492 [“It is true that subdivision 2 of Code of Civil Procedure section
1161 relates to a default in the payment of rent. However, the subdivision
refers to the ‘lease or agreement under which the property is held’ and
requires the notice state ‘the amount which is due.’ The language is not ‘the
amount of rent which is due’ or ‘the rent which is due.’ We think the statutory
language is sufficiently broad to encompass any sums due under the lease or
agreement under which the property is held.”]) Defendants also argue that that
the late fees are impermissible liquidated damages. This cannot be determined
on demurrer. 
 
Defendants’ demurrer is OVERRULED.


 


