  Case Number:  21STCV45709    Hearing Date:   February 2, 2024    Dept:  32 


 
KOSTIV & ASSOCIATES,
  et al.,
                        Plaintiffs,
            v.
 
PAYINK, LTD., et al., 
                        Defendants.
  


 
  Case No.:  21STCV45709
  Hearing Date:  February 2, 2024
 
     [TENTATIVE]
  order RE:
plaintiffs’ motion to compel depositions
  and participation in trial preparation  




 


 



BACKGROUND
            On December 15, 2021, Plaintiffs
Kostiv & Associates (K&A) and Petro R. Kostiv (Kostiv) filed this
action against various Defendants, asserting 16 causes of action stemming from
an alleged conspiracy to embezzle money from Plaintiffs. The allegations mainly
revolve around the actions of Diego Gonzalez, the former finance director for K&A,
who fraudulently entered into contracts with Ezlawpay and Payink on behalf of K&A,
resulting in false invoices charged to K&A. Plaintiffs brought this suit
against: Ezlawpay; Payink; Gonzalez; Gonzalez’s wife, Elena Padilla (allegedly
the owner of Ezlawpay); two corporate officers of Payink; and various employees
who worked under Gonzalez at K&A’s finance department. The operative First
Amended Complaint was filed May 2, 2022.
            On September 13, 2022, Payink filed a
cross-complaint against Plaintiffs for (1) unjust enrichment, (2) work, labor, and
services, and (3) quantum meruit. Payink alleges that Plaintiffs failed to compensate
Payink for services performed.  
            On December 29, 2023, Plaintiffs
filed the instant motion to compel the depositions of Gonzalez and Padilla, and
for an order that Defendants participate in trial preparation or be deemed as
having abandoned the case. Defendants have not filed an opposition.
DISCUSSION
I.
Depositions
“If, after service of a deposition notice,
a party to the action . . . without having served a valid objection under
Section 2025.410, fails to appear for examination . . . the party giving the
notice may move for an order compelling the deponent’s attendance and testimony,
and the production for inspection of any document … described in the deposition
notice.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.450(a).) “If that party or party-affiliated
deponent then fails to obey an order compelling attendance, testimony, and production,
the court may make those orders that are just . . . .” (Id., § 2025.450(h).)

On August 19, 2022, the Court granted
Plaintiffs’ motion to compel the depositions of Gonzalez and Padilla, ordering
the depositions to take place on October 14, 2022 and December 9, 2022, respectively.
Padilla’s deposition was not taken because she filed for bankruptcy (Quiroga
Decl. ¶ 8), but the automatic stay was lifted on September 19, 2023. Gonzalez
was partly deposed for one day and agreed to appear for a second day to be
deposed for an additional three to four hours. (Id., ¶ 9.) However, Gonzalez
subsequently stopped communicating with Plaintiffs. (Ibid.) Given these
facts, an order compelling the depositions is warranted. Defendants must participate
in discovery even if they are currently pro per. 
II.
Trial Preparation
Plaintiffs request that the Court order Defendants
to participate in trial preparation, or otherwise deem Defendants to have
abandoned the case. There is no authority or need for such an order. Defendants
are already required to appear at the status conference and trial. 
 
CONCLUSION
            Plaintiffs’ motion to compel
arbitration is GRANTED. Plaintiffs’ motion to compel trial preparation or deem
the case abandoned is DENIED. 
            