 Case Number:  23STCV29147    Hearing Date:   February 2, 2024    Dept:  32 


 
THE CRÈME SHOP INC.,
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
 
RUSS AUGUST & KABAT,
  et al., 
                        Defendants.
  


 
  Case No.:  23STCV29147
  Hearing Date:  February 2, 2024
 
     [TENTATIVE]
  order RE:
defendants’ motion to compel arbitration
  




 


 



BACKGROUND
            On November 29, 2023, Plaintiff The Crème
Shop Inc. filed this action against Defendants Russ August & Kabat (RAK),
Larry C. Russ, Christine S. Shin, and Nathan D. Meyer. The complaint asserts
causes of action for (1) breach of fiduciary duty, (2) professional negligence,
(3) injunctive relief, (4) constructive fraud, (5) embezzlement, (6)
conversion, (7) receipt of stolen property, and (8) accounting. The complaint
alleges that Defendants, as attorneys, concurrently represented Plaintiff and two
of Plaintiff’s minority shareholders even though Plaintiff and the shareholders
had conflicting interests.  
            On January 3, 2024, Defendants filed
the instant motion to compel arbitration. Plaintiff filed an opposition on
January 24, 2024. Defendants filed their reply on January 26, 2024. 
LEGAL STANDARD
“On petition of a party to an arbitration
agreement alleging the existence of a written agreement to arbitrate a controversy
and that a party to the agreement refuses to arbitrate that controversy, the
court shall order the petitioner and the respondent to arbitrate the
controversy if it determines that an agreement to arbitrate the controversy exists….”
(Code Civ. Proc, § 1281.2.) “The party seeking arbitration bears the burden of
proving the existence of an arbitration agreement, and the party opposing arbitration
bears the burden of proving any defense, such as unconscionability.” (Pinnacle
Museum Tower Assn. v. Pinnacle Market Development (US), LLC (2012) 55
Cal.4th 223, 236.)
DISCUSSION
I.
Prima Facie Proof of an Arbitration Agreement
“The moving party ‘can meet its initial
burden by attaching to the motion or petition a copy of the arbitration
agreement purporting to bear the opposing party's signature.’” (Gamboa v.
Northeast Community Clinic (2021) 72 Cal.App.5th 158, 165, quoting Bannister
v. Marinidence Opco, LLC (2021) 64 Cal.App.5th 541, 543-44.) 
On August 18, 2020, Defendant Shin sent a
letter to Plaintiff’s CEO, Olive Kim, in response to Ms. Kim’s request to
retain Defendant RAK. (Shin Decl., Ex. A, p. 1.) “The purpose of this letter [was]
to confirm and document the terms of [Plaintiff’s] engagement of Russ, August
& Kabat as counsel regarding various corporate legal matters for The Crème
Shop.” (Ibid.) The last page of the letter contains a paragraph on
arbitration, which provides as follows: 
 
“In the event of
any claim or dispute in any way regarding or arising out of our engagement,
this Agreement, our statements and/or our work, of any nature . . . you may
have a right to an initial non-binding arbitration of such Claim pursuant to
applicable law. If you have a right to such non-binding arbitration, and if you
elect to exercise such right, you and we shall engage in such non-binding
arbitration to seek to resolve such Claim, unless you waive such right or you
and we agree to make such non-binding arbitration instead to be binding
arbitration in which event the following provisions shall also be applicable to
such agreed binding arbitration. Subject to the foregoing regarding non-binding
arbitration, any Claim shall only be raised and decided by mandatory, final and
binding arbitration . . . This mandatory, final and binding arbitration
agreement is instead of traditional court proceedings and procedure including
without limitation a right to a jury trial, court trial or appeal, and all such
and other differing court proceedings and procedure including without
limitation to a jury trial, court trial and appeal are accordingly waived.” 
(Shin
Decl., Ex. A, p. 4.) 
The final paragraph of the letter asks Ms.
Kim to return a signed copy of the agreement to confirm that she has “read this
engagement agreement and understand and agree to all of its terms and have
received a copy.” (Shin Decl., Ex. A, p. 4.) Ms. Kim signed the signature page as
Plaintiff’s CEO, while Ms. Shin signed on behalf of RAK. (Id. at p. 5.) Therefore,
Defendants have tendered sufficient proof of an arbitration agreement. 
II.
Validity of the Engagement Agreement
            An arbitration agreement need not be
enforced if “[g]rounds exist for rescission of the agreement.” (Code Civ.
Proc., § 1281.2(b).) “The agreement” refers to the arbitration agreement only,
not the larger agreement containing the arbitration clause. (Moncharsh
v. Heily & Blase (1992) 3 Cal.4th 1, 29.) Therefore, where a plaintiff
alleges that some part of the larger contract is illegal (other than the
arbitration clause), that illegality is itself an arbitrable issue. (Id.
at pp. 29-30.) However, if “grounds exist to revoke the entire contract, such
grounds would also vitiate the arbitration agreement. Thus, if an otherwise
enforceable arbitration agreement is contained in an illegal contract, a party
may avoid arbitration altogether.” (Ibid.) 
            Accordingly, “an agreement to arbitrate
is invalid and unenforceable if it is made as part of a contract that is
invalid and unenforceable because it violates public policy.” (Sheppard,
Mullin, Richter & Hampton, LLP v. J-M Manufacturing Co., Inc. (2018) 6
Cal.5th 59, 78-79.) “[A] contract may be held invalid and unenforceable on
public policy grounds even though the public policy is not enshrined in a
legislative enactment.” (Id. at p. 79.) Therefore, an attorney services
contract that violates of the Rules of Professional Conduct may be rendered
unenforceable depending on the circumstances. (Id. at pp. 79-80.) In Sheppard
Mullin, an engagement agreement was found void in its entirety, including
the arbitration clause, because the attorneys engaged in concurrent representation
of clients with adverse interests without properly obtaining informed written
consent under Rule 3-310, now codified as Rule 1.7. (Id. at pp. 80-81.)    
Plaintiff argues that there is no arbitration
agreement because the entire engagement agreement is void for violating the
Rules of Professional Conduct. Plaintiff similarly argues that Defendants
engaged in concurrent representation of Plaintiff and the adverse shareholders
(Olive Kim and her mother, Christina Kim) without Plaintiff’s informed written
consent.
First, the Court notes Defendants’ reply
argument that, under the terms of the arbitration clause, issues of arbitrability
are to be determined by the arbitrator. However, Plaintiff’s argument goes to
the very existence of an arbitration agreement. That is, if the entire
engagement agreement is void, there would be no arbitration agreement at all,
not even an agreement to let the arbitrator decide issues of arbitrability. “[C]hallenges
to the very existence of the contract are, in general, properly directed to the
court.” (Mendoza v. Trans Valley Transport (2022) 75 Cal.App.5th 748,
776.) As Moncharsh and Sheppard Mullin demonstrate, an
arbitration clause may be voided if the entire contract is successfully
challenged as illegal. Therefore, the Court must decide the issue. For the
following reasons, the Court finds that there is a binding arbitration agreement.

 According
to Plaintiff, the Kims’ interests “ceased to be 100% aligned with TCS’
interests” at the earliest on June 9, 2022, when the Kims sold a majority of
their interest in Plaintiff and became minority shareholders. (Young Lee Decl.
¶ 6.) The engagement agreement at issue was signed long before that, on August
18, 2020. (Shin Decl., Ex. A.) In Sheppard Mullin, “at the time” that
Sheppard Mullin agreed to represent the new client, it was already representing
the adverse client. (Sheppard Mullin, supra, 6 Cal.5th at p. 80.) In
other words, “entry into the engagement agreement itself was an ethical
violation because . . . it was impossible for Sheppard to enter into the
engagement agreement with J-M without committing an ethical breach. As a
result, the entire object of the engagement agreement was an engagement that
Sheppard was prohibited to take on.” (Brawerman v. Loeb & Loeb LLP (2022)
81 Cal.App.5th 1106, 1123.)  
By contrast, Defendants here agreed to
represent Plaintiff while the Kims’ interests were admittedly still aligned
with Plaintiff’s. In other words, there was no adverse concurrent
representation “at the time” the parties executed the engagement agreement. At the
time the engagement agreement was executed, it was possible for Defendants to
perform it ethically. In other words, it was not an ethical violation to simply
execute the agreement like it was in Sheppard Mullin. Assuming, arguendo,
that Defendants violated the Rules of Professional Conduct in the performance
of the engagement agreement, that does not work to retroactively void the
agreement. (Brawerman, supra, 81 Cal.App.5th at p. 1123.) Plaintiff
cites no authority suggesting that an engagement agreement may be retroactively
voided if an attorney commits an ethical violation after the agreement is
executed. Therefore, the engagement agreement is not void for violating public
policy. Accordingly, there is a valid, binding arbitration agreement. 
III.
Arbitrability of the Claims at Issue
            Plaintiff alternatively argues that
the claims asserted in its complaint are not covered by the arbitration agreement.
However, as Defendants pointed out, the agreement contains a delegation clause.
(See Shin Decl., Ex. A, p. 4 [“only the arbitrator to decide all issues
regarding arbitrability and the existence, scope and enforceability of this
mandatory, final and binding arbitration agreement”].) Because the Court finds
that a valid arbitration agreement exists, the delegation clause therein must
be enforced. In other words, the parties agreed to have the arbitrator, rather
than the Court, decide which claims are arbitrable.  
CONCLUSION
            Defendants’ motion to compel
arbitration is GRANTED. The case is stayed in its entirety pending the outcome
of arbitration.  
              