 Case Number:  23STCV16522    Hearing Date:   February 2, 2024    Dept:  32 


 
IPFS CORPORATION OF
  CALIFORNIA,
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
 
S.A.S. SERVICES GROUP,
  INC., 
                        Defendant.
  


 
  Case No.:  23STCV16522 
  Hearing Date:  February 2, 2024
 
     [TENTATIVE]
  order RE:
PLAINTIFF’s motion to serve through
  secretary of state 




 


 



BACKGROUND
            On July 14, 2023, Plaintiff IPFS
Corporation of California filed this action against Defendant S.A.S. Services Group,
Inc., asserting a claim for money paid and advanced pursuant to an agreement. 
            On December 19, 2023, Plaintiff
filed the instant motion to serve Defendant by serving the Secretary of State. 
LEGAL STANDARD
            “If an agent for the purpose of
service of process . . . cannot with reasonable diligence be found at the
address designated for personally delivering the process, or if no agent has
been designated, and it is shown by affidavit to the satisfaction of the court
that process against a domestic corporation cannot be served with reasonable
diligence upon the designated agent by hand . . . the court may make an order
that the service be made upon the corporation by delivering by hand to the
Secretary of State.” (Corp. Code, § 1702(a).) 
DISCUSSION
            In this case, Plaintiff searched the
Secretary of State website for Defendant’s registered agent and located the
agent’s listed address. (Klavdianos Decl. ¶ 3.) Plaintiff also conducted a search
on a different database (TLO) and confirmed the agent’s address. (Id., ¶
4.) The TLO search also returned two other potential addresses for Defendant. (Ibid.)
Plaintiff retained an investigative service to perform a search on the agent, which
returned a fourth additional address. (Id., ¶ 5.) A process server
attempted service at each address without success. (Id., ¶ 6, Ex. E, F,
G.) 
            Plaintiff has demonstrated that
Defendant “cannot be served with reasonable diligence upon the designated agent
by hand.” (See Corp. Code, § 1702(a).) Therefore, Plaintiff should be allowed
to serve Defendant by delivery to the Secretary of State. (Ibid.) 
CONCLUSION
            Plaintiff’s motion to serve
Defendant through the Secretary of State is GRANTED. 
 