 Case Number:  23STLC05506    Hearing Date:   October 16, 2024    Dept:  29 GEICO Insurance Co. v. Link Engineering
23STLC05506
Motion for Leave to Intervene filed by Progressive Express Insurance Company
Tentative
The motion is
granted.
Background
This case arises
out of an automobile accident that occurred on or about September 8, 2020.  
On August 21,
2023, Plaintiff GEICO General Insurance Company (“Plaintiff”) filed the
complaint in this action against Link Engineering Incorporated (“Defendant”)
and Does I through V.  In the complaint,
Plaintiff alleges that the Defendant was the owner of one of the vehicles
involved in the accident, that Defendant’s employee was driving the vehicle
within the course and scope of his employment with Defendant at the time of the
accident, that the negligence of Defendant’s employee was a cause of the
accident, and that Plaintiff is the insurer of another driver whose vehicle was
involved in the accident and was damaged.
On September
11, 2024, Progressive Express Insurance Company (“Progressive”) filed this motion
for leave to intervene.  
No opposition
has been filed. 
Legal
Standard 
“An intervention takes place when
a¿nonparty, deemed an intervenor, becomes¿a party to an action or proceeding
between other persons” and joins a plaintiff in seeking relief, unites with a
defendant in resisting the claims of a plaintiff, or demands relief adverse to
both a plaintiff and a defendant.  (Code
Civ. Proc., § 387, subd. (b).)
Subdivision (d) of Code of Civil Procedure section 387 provides
as follows:
(1) “The court shall, upon timely
application, permit a nonparty to intervene in the action or proceeding if
either of the following conditions is satisfied: 
(A) A provision of law confers an
unconditional right to intervene. 
(B) The person seeking intervention claims
an interest relating to the property or transaction that is the subject of the
action and that person is so situated that the disposition of the action may
impair or impede that person’s ability to protect that interest, unless the
person’s interest is adequately represented by one or more of the existing
parties.
(2) The court may, upon timely application,
permit a nonparty to intervene in the action or proceeding if the person has an
interest in the matter in litigation, or in the success of either of the
parties, or an interest against both.”
“It is well settled that the
intervener's interest in the matter in litigation must be direct, not
consequential, and that it must be an interest which is proper to be determined
in the action in which intervention is sought.”¿(Simpson Redwood Co. v.
State of California¿(1987)¿196 Cal.App.3d 1192, 1199-1200.)  To
establish a direct and immediate interest in the litigation for purposes of
permissive intervention, a non-party seeking intervention must show that he or
she stands to gain or lose by direct operation of the judgment, even if no
specific interest in the property or transaction at issue exists.¿ (Id.
at p. 1201.)  It is sufficient that there
is “a substantial probability” that the proposed intervenor’s interests will be
affected by the judgment.  (Timberidge¿Enterprises,
Inc. v. City of Santa Rosa¿(1978) 86 Cal.App.3d 873, 881-882.)
As one court has explained,
a proposed intervenor must show: [1] that the proposed intervenor has “an
interest relating to the property or transaction which is the subject of the
action”; [2] that the proposed intervenor is “so situated that the disposition
of the action may as a practical matter impair or impede that person's ability
to protect that interest”; and [3] that the proposed intervenor “is not
adequately represented by existing parties.” (Edwards v. Heartland Payment
Sys., Inc. (2018) 29 Cal.App.5th 725, 732.)
“Whether the
intervener’s interest is sufficiently direct must be decided on the facts of
each case.”  (Simpson Redwood Co.,
supra, 196 Cal.App.3d at p. 1200.) 
“[S]ection 387 should be liberally construed in favor of intervention.”¿
(Ibid.)¿ 
Procedurally, subdivision
(c) of section 387 requires that a motion to intervene “shall include a copy of
the proposed complaint in intervention or answer in intervention and set forth
the grounds upon which intervention rests.”¿ 
Judicial
Notice 
Progressive requests the Court to take
judicial notice of two minute orders that have been entered granting
Progressive leave to intervene in two related cases.  The request is granted.
Discussion
In connection
with the accident at issue, Progressive is the insurance carrier providing
coverage for the vehicle driven by Defendant’s employee and Chief Executive
Officer.  (Buckley Decl., ¶¶ 3-4.)  
Insurance Code section
11580, subdivision (b)(2), states that insurance policies covered by the
statute must contain:
“A provision that whenever
judgment is secured against the insured or the executor or administrator of a
deceased insured in an action based upon bodily injury, death, or property
damage, then an action may be brought against the insurer on the policy and
subject to its terms and limitations, by such judgment creditor to recover on
the judgment.” 
Accordingly,
under the terms of the policy and Insurance Code section 11580, Progressive is
potentially liable for any judgment in this action entered against Defendant.  Progressive however, states: (1) Defendant is
no longer in business; (2) the Chief Executive Officer has died; and (3) the
Chief Executive Officer’s wife is not cooperating in the discovery
process.  (Buckley Decl., ¶¶ 5, 8-11.)
Progressive
has shown that it has a sufficient basis to intervene under Code of Civil
Procedure section 387.  Progressive has
also satisfied all applicable procedural requirements.
The motion
is granted.
Conclusion
The Court GRANTS the motion of Progressive Express Insurance Company for leave to intervene. 
The Court GRANTS
Progressive Express Insurance Company LEAVE to file the Answer in Intervention attached
to the moving papers within 7 days of this hearing.
Moving Party is ordered to give notice. 