 Case Number:  22STCV29932    Hearing Date:   October 16, 2024    Dept:  29 Guiang v. Fernandes
22STCV29932
Defendant’s motion to continue trial
Tentative
The motion is granted in part and denied in part.
Background
Three related cases arise out of a vehicle
accident on September 22, 2020, on SR-91 Westbound Freeway, just east of
Atlantic Avenue in Long Beach, California. 
In this case, on September 14, 2022,
Plaintiff Shermann Keith Guiang (“Plaintiff” or “Guiang”) filed the complaint asserting
causes of action for motor vehicle negligence and general negligence against
Defendants Neil Pio Fernandes (“Fernandes”), David Robert Vaugh, and Does 1
through 50. 
On September 16, 2022, Plaintiff amended
the complaint to name Karen Tanedo (“Tanedo”) as Doe 1. 
On October 26, 2022, David Robert Vaughn,
erroneously sued as David Robert Vaugh (“Vaughn”) and Tanedo filed an answer. Vaughn
and Tanedo also filed a cross-complaint against Fernandes and Does 1 through
20. 
On November 3, 2022, Fernandes filed an
answer to the complaint. Fernandes also filed a cross-complaint against Vaughn
and Raul Carranza Valencia (“Carranza”). 
On August 15, 2024, the Court, at the request
of Plaintiff, dismissed the causes of action in the complaint against Vaughn
and Tanedo.
On September 17, 2024, the Court, at the
request of Vaughn and Tanedo, dismissed their cross-complaint.
Following the denial of an ex parte application,
Defendant Fernandes (“Defendant”) filed this motion to continue trial on September
24, 2024. Plaintiff filed an opposition on October 2, and Defendant filed a
reply on October 8.
Plaintiff filed an unauthorized sur-reply
on October 9, 2024.
On filing, the cases was assigned a trial
date of March 13, 2024. On the stipulation of the parties, the Court continued
the trial date to October 14, 2024. In August, the Court granted in part and
denied in part Plaintiff’s motion to continue trial: Plaintiff had sought a
continuance to January 2025, but instead the Court continued the trial for
approximately 30 days, to November 14, 2024.
The Court also notes that there are two related
cases pending (Case No. 22STCV30845, filed by Carranza against Guiang, Vaughn, Tanedo,
and Fernandes; and Case No. 22STCV30912, filed by Fernandes and Andres
Contreras Arrellano against Guiang, Vaughn, and Karen Tanedo). The cases are
not consolidated. 
Legal Standard
Code of Civil Procedure section 128, subdivision
(a)(8), provides that the court has the power to amend and control its process
and orders so as to make them conform to law and justice. “The power to
determine when a continuance should be granted is within the discretion of the
trial court.” (Color-Vue, Inc. v. Abrams (1996) 44 Cal.App.4th
1599, 1603.) “A trial court has wide latitude in the matter of calendar control
including the granting or denying of continuances.” (Park Motors, Inc. v.
Cozens (1975) 49 Cal.App.3d 12, 18.) 
“To ensure the prompt disposition of civil
cases, the dates assigned for trial are firm.  All parties and their
counsel must regard the date set for trial as certain.”  (Cal. Rules
of Court, rule 3.1332(a).)
“Although continuances of trials are disfavored,
each request for a continuance must be considered on its own
merits.”  (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1332(c).)  “The
court may grant a continuance only on an affirmative showing of good cause
requiring the continuance.”  (Ibid.)  Circumstances
that may support a finding of good cause include: 
“(1) The unavailability of an essential lay or
expert witness because of death, illness, or other excusable
circumstances; 
(2) The unavailability of a party because of
death, illness, or other excusable circumstances; 
(3) The unavailability of trial counsel because
of death, illness, or other excusable circumstances; 
(4) The substitution of trial counsel, but only
where there is an affirmative showing that the substitution is required in the
interests of justice; 
(5) The addition of a new party if: (A) The new
party has not had a reasonable opportunity to conduct discovery and prepare for
trial; or (B) The other parties have not had a reasonable opportunity to
conduct discovery and prepare for trial in regard to the new party's
involvement in the case; 
(6) A party's excused inability to obtain
essential testimony, documents, or other material evidence despite diligent
efforts; or 
(7) A significant, unanticipated change in the
status of the case as a result of which the case is not ready for trial.” 
(Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1332(c).) 
“In ruling on a motion or application for
continuance, the court must consider all the facts and circumstances that are
relevant to the determination.”  (Cal. Rules of Court, rule
3.1332(d).)  California Rules of Court, rule 3.1332(d) sets forth a
non-exhaustive list of factors that the court may consider: 
“(1) The proximity of the trial date; 
(2) Whether there was any previous continuance,
extension of time, or delay of trial due to any party; 
(3) The length of the continuance
requested; 
(4) The availability of alternative means to
address the problem that gave rise to the motion or application for a
continuance; 
(5) The prejudice that parties or witnesses will
suffer as a result of the continuance;
(6) If the case is entitled to a preferential
trial setting, the reasons for that status and whether the need for a
continuance outweighs the need to avoid delay;
(7) The court's calendar and the impact of
granting a continuance on other pending trials;
(8) Whether trial counsel is engaged in another
trial; 
(9) Whether all parties have stipulated to a
continuance; 
(10) Whether the interests of justice are best
served by a continuance, by the trial of the matter, or by imposing conditions
on the continuance; and 
(11) Any other fact or circumstance relevant to
the fair determination of the motion or application.” 
(Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1332(d).)
Discussion
Defendant moves to continue trial to April 2025.
According to Defendant, by April 3, 2024, Defendant and Plaintiff’s prior
counsel agreed to a dismissal of this action (as against Defendant) in exchange
for a waiver of costs. (Kandarian-Stein Decl., ¶ 4 & Exh. A.) No dismissal
was filed. 
Following Plaintiff’s substitution of counsel
in June 2024, Plaintiff refused to dismiss the case. Plaintiff was deposed in
July, and on August 5, 2024, Plaintiff filed and served a motion to continue
trial on August 5, 2024, indicating an intent to litigate against Defendant.
Defendant contends that this is a significant, unanticipated change in the status
of the case that excuses the inability of Defendant to complete discovery.
Defendant’s lead trial counsel has also
stated in a declaration that she is not available at any time during the period
of November 25 to December 31, 2024, “due to pre-paid vacation, Christmas, and
Hanukkah holidays” and that Defendant has plans to be out of town from December
6 through 17, 2024 and January 29 through February 7, 2025.
As a preliminary, threshold matter, the Court
disregards Plaintiff’s sur-reply filed on October 9, 2024. There is no
authority for the non-moving party to submit reply to a reply; Plaintiff did
not seek leave to file a sur-reply; and if Plaintiff had sought leave, it would
have been denied, as there are no late breaking developments to justify or sur-reply
or anything else in the sur-reply that could not have been presented in Plaintiff’s
opposition.
Turning to the merits, and setting aside
the unhelpful rhetoric offered by both Defendant and Plaintiff, the Court finds
good cause to grant in part the motion to continue trial. 
In March 2024, Plaintiff (through prior
counsel) indicated that he was prepared to dismiss Defendant, in exchange for a
waiver of costs. (Kandarian-Stein Decl., ¶ 4 & Exh. A.) At the time, only
limited discovery (at most) had been conducted, and trial was set for October
14, 2024.
Plaintiff then substituted in new counsel,
who advised Defendant at some point in July, and certainly by August 5, that he
intended to litigate against Defendant. (See id., ¶¶ 5-6 & Exh. B.) At
that point, the discovery cutoff was a little more than one month away.
On August 5, 2024, Plaintiff moved to continue
trial to January 2025. Defendant did not oppose the motion. On August 29, the Court
granted the motion in part and denied it in part. The Court continued the trial
for approximately one month but denied Plaintiff’s request for a longer
continuance, in part because of the lack of evidence of diligence by Plaintiff.
Now Plaintiff opposes any further
continuance of the trial date. But Defendant has shown good cause for some
continuance, as it would not have been expected or reasonable for Defendant to
work up this case for trial, including conducting a physical examination of
Plaintiff, during the time period in which there was (or appears to have been)
an agreement between the parties for Plaintiff to dismiss the case in exchange
for a waiver of costs. And in the time since Plaintiff’s repudiation of the
apparent agreement, Defendant has acted with reasonable diligence. 
But Defendant has not shown good cause to
continue the trial date April 2025. The remaining discovery, at least as indicated
in the moving papers, can be completed much sooner than that. Lawyers work hard
and are certainly entitled to take time off, but the statement of counsel that
she is not available for more than five weeks in November and December 2024 because
of vacation and holidays is no basis to delay the progress of this case to
trial. 
Conclusion
The Court GRANTS
in part and DENIES in part Defendant’s motion to continue trial.
The Court
CONTINUES the trial to January 9, 2025. The Final Status Conference and all
discovery deadlines are reset based on the new trial date.
Moving party is ordered to give notice.