On January 16, 2019, Plaintiffs Brian Yang and Jerry Xu filed a Complaint against Defendants Michel Amar, Alec Amar, Bit.Management, LLC, NYAM, LLC and Multiple Application Technology, LLC for (1) breach of fiduciary duty, (2) breach of contract, (3) breach of the implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing, (4) fraudulent transfer, (5) conversion, (6) conversion, (7) accounting, (8) violation of the UCL, (9) constructive trust, and (10) dissolution of limited liability company.  Plaintiff Brian Yang seeks to compel non-party Bit Mining International, LLC (“BMI”) to comply with his business record subpoena.  Yang contends that, “unbeknownst to him, defendant Michel Amar unilaterally changed Bit.Management LLC's (hereafter Bit.Management) business model by transferring ownership of the miners and the contracts for the bit mining operations to BM, an entity that Yang was wholly unfamiliar with, much less knew of its relationship with Bit.Management (hereafter the Transfer). This is significant in that the case centers around Yang's rights as to his 10% ownership of Bit.Management and his exclusion from participation in that ownership, in that Mr. Amar's unilateral transfer of that profitable business to BM from Bit.Management negatively impacted Yang's profits.”The subpoena at issue seeks financial documents primarily relating to asset transfers among BMI and the Defendants.BMI objects on the basis of relevance, privacy, and scope.  Previously, the Court ruled as follows: “The Motion to Compel is denied without prejudice because (1) a separate statement was only provided with the Reply brief such that a response could not be provided if desired and (2) Yang did not cite any evidence showing how exactly he learned that a transfer was made to the non-party, which would be necessary to show good cause for the subject discovery.”At this time, a separate statement has been provided with the opening papers.  Further, Yang cites Michel Amar’s testimony in which he does not deny that BMI owned miners.  Yang’s forensic accountant noted large transfers of money between BMI and Bit.Management, LLC.Defendants argue that the Motion is untimely because it was filed more than 60 days after BMI objected on October 26, 2023.  The initial Motion, however, was timely filed, and when the Court denied that motion without prejudice, it entertained the potential for another motion notwithstanding any deadline.  In fact, the Court could have simply continued the initial motion and there would not be an objection under that circumstance.  Yang should not be penalized because the Court procedurally chose to deny the motion without prejudice rather than continue it.   Defendants also argue that the testimony cited by Amar does not support that there was a transfer between BMI and Bit.Management.The Court will require a production because Amar’s testimony is unclear; there is an interrelationship between BMI and the Defendants; Bit.Management and BMI engage in a similar business; BMI was formed close in time to when Yang alleges that Defendants began a campaign to force Yang out of Bit.Management; corporations have a lesser privacy interest; the scope of discovery is broad; and a protective order exists between the parties.  The Court, however, will temporally narrow the subpoena to seek documents only from December 1, 2017, until May 1, 2020.  This applies to all requests that have no time limit or that pertain to the period of December 1, 2017, until the present.  The Motion to Compel is granted in part as set forth herein.  Documents are to be produced within 30 days.  The Court declines to award sanctions.  Moving party to give notice.If counsel do not submit on the tentative, they are strongly encouraged to appear by LACourtConnect rather than in person due to the COVID-19 pandemic. 