 Case Number:  24SMCV01057    Hearing Date:   July 10, 2024    Dept:  M City
of Santa Monica v. Colonial Manor et al., 24SMCV01057
 
Background
 
On
April 25, 2024, the parties stipulated in this matter and the related matter,
24SMUD00651, Colonial Manor v. Reyes, to have the Court resolve the legal issue
of whether Santa Monica Rent Control Charter Amendment (SMRCC) Section 1806(c)
and other ordinances permit Colonial Manor to raise the rent to the market rate
under the agreed upon factual circumstances of the case.  (4/25/24 Order.)  On July 6, 2024, the parties submitted their
Stipulated Facts for the July 10, 2024, Non-Jury Trial on Rent Increase Validity.  
 
The specific
issue to be addressed is whether Colonial Manor had the right to impose an
unlimited rent increase for a unit that was occupied by the spouse of the
original occupant who is now deceased. 
Colonial Manor contends that when the original occupant(s) vacate a
unit, the landlord can raise the rent on everyone else. Colonial’s
interpretation of the statute relies upon the language in Civil Code section
1954.53(d)(2) permitting an owner to increase rent “to a lawful sublessee or
assignee” when the original occupant(s) are no longer permanently residing
there.  If Mrs. Reyes falls within that
category, then the Costa-Hawkins Rental Housing Act preempts the local Santa
Monica rent control ordinance preventing Colonial from raising the rent. Therefore,
the Court must interpret the terms sublessee and assignee as used in section
1954.53, as well as the term original occupant. 
 
Does Section 1954.53(d)(2)
Apply to the Facts of this Case
 
The
effect of the Costa-Hawkins Rental Housing Act provision allowing residential
landlords to “establish the initial rental rate for a dwelling or unit” is to
permit landlords to impose whatever rent they choose at the commencement
of a tenancy. (Action Apartment Assn., Inc. v. City of Santa Monica
(2007) 41 Cal.4th 1232.) The term “occupant” is not limited to a party to the
rental agreement, but rather applies to any individual who has resided in the
dwelling from the start of a tenancy, with the landlord's permission.  (Mosser
Companies v. San Francisco Rent Stabilization & Arb. Bd., (2015) 233
Cal. App. 4th 505, 512 [city rent control protections applied to tenants' son’s
occupancy because he was an “original occupant” that continuously resided at
the Unit pursuant to the original lease even after the son’s parents had moved
out]; Cobb v. San Francisco Residential Rent Stabilization and Arbitration
Bd. (2002) 98 Cal.App.4th 345 [landlord did not have authority to increase
tenant's rent where tenant occupied apartment before effective day of rent
increase, tenant was not assignee or sublessee of previous tenant, and landlord
negotiated prior rent increase with tenant, and demanded prompt payment of
rent].)
 
Civil
Code section 1954.53(d)(2) authorizes unlimited rent increases only when the
occupants that remain are “sublessee[s] or assignee[s]” of the previous tenant.
The Court concludes that the terms “sublessee or assignee” was not an attempt
to refer to all persons still occupying a unit after the original
occupants. The use of the term “occupant” in the same subsection suggests that
the legislature was intending to use the more specific meanings behind
“sublessee” and “assignee,” as opposed to non-original occupants.  (See In re M.A., (2022) 83 Cal.
App. 5th 143, 150 (when different terms are used in part of same
statutory scheme, they are presumed to have different meanings.)  The statute can be fairly read to narrowly permit
rent increases only to a sublessee or assignee who occupied a unit after January
1, 1996, and where the original occupants have vacated.  Thus, if the individual is not a sublessee or
assignee, the provisions would not apply even if the original occupants have
vacated.
 
This
conclusion is supported by the remaining sections of Civil Code section 1954.53.  Section 1954.53 subsection (d)(1)-(4) all
refer to subletting. For example, subsection (d)(1) states that the Act does
not preclude express agreements in leases establishing rent for sublessees.
(“(d)(1) Nothing in this section or any other provision of law shall be
construed to preclude express establishment in a lease or rental agreement of
the rental rates to be applicable in the event the rental unit subject thereto
is sublet…”) (d)(3) provides the subdivision does not “apply to partial changes in occupancy of a dwelling
or unit where one or more of the occupants of the premises… remains an
occupant in lawful possession of the dwelling or unit” (emphasis added). As
discussed below, this case could be considered a “partial change” in occupancy
referred to in (d)(3), which demonstrates a recognition of the type of
situation presented here.
Furthermore, subsection (d)(4) also recognizes that nothing in the section
prohibits a covenant against sublease or assignment, unless the owner received
written notice from the tenant and accepted rent.  Thus, the context of subsection (d)(2)
supports the position that it is referring specifically to sublets or
assignments, as opposed to any other kind of occupant – whether original or not.
As the caselaw explains, the purpose of this subsection was to preclude “friends
and family” from creating subtenancies and assignments that could avoid the Costa
Hawkins Act. It would not preclude an owner establishing a new, oral lease with
occupants during partial changes in occupancy.
 
Giving
a strict interpretation of the terms, section 1954.53(d)(2) would not preempt Santa
Monica’s ordinance and allow for the 400% increase in rent. The stipulated
facts admit that Vilma Reyes is not an assignee or subtenant. Milton Reyes
lived at the Unit as a tenant until his death on September 8, 2023. (Stipulated
Fact (SF) 2.) Defendant, Mrs. Reyes, moved into the Unit in about February
2021. (SF 4, 5.) The couple got married in February 2022. (SF 3.) Mrs. Reyes
never paid Milton Reyes rent. (SF 6.) Mrs. Reyes also never entered into any
written, verbal, or implied agreement for Mr. Reyes to assign or transfer his
tenancy rights to the Rental Unit. (SF 7.) Thus, it is undisputed that she
never “paid rent” to, or entered into an assignment with, her husband. Furthermore,
Mrs. Reyes persuasively argues that a marital relationship cannot create a common
law subtenancy between husband and wife. 
As such, the Court concludes that Vilma Reyes is neither a subtenant or
assignee of Milton Reyes and Costa Hawkins does not authorize a rental increase
that would violate SMRCC law.  
 
Alternatively,
Mrs. Reyes would still be protected from the rent increase as a tenant.  A landlord and new occupant may informally
create a tenancy. “It is well established that a tenancy need not be created by
a lease, but may be created by occupancy by consent.”  (Miller v. Elite Ins. Co., (1980) 100
Cal. App. 3d 739, 750; see also Parkmerced Co. v. San Francisco Rent
Stabilization & Arbitration Bd., (1989) 215 Cal. App. 3d 490, 494-95.) Family
members and friends who subsequently move into the apartment are not protected unless
the landlord consents to the occupancy and accepts rent from the new occupant,
thus creating a new tenancy. Here, the evidence before the Court set forth in
the stipulated facts is that Colonial Manor explicitly, implicitly, or by
operation of law, created a new tenancy with Mrs. Reyes.  Once married in 2022, Mrs. Reyes can be
considered to have owed and paid rent to Colonial Manor based upon her husband’s
rental payments. Mrs. Reyes did not owe a duty to pay rent to her husband but
did owe an obligation to Landlord to pay the rent owed to it by her husband.
(Family Code § 914(a)(1).) Since Plaintiff accepted this rent from Mr. Reyes and
his spouse (the new occupant), a new tenancy would have been created so long as
the landlord was aware that Mrs. Reyes was occupying the unit. There is no
evidence that Colonial Manor was not aware of Mrs. Reyes occupying the
Unit.  In fact, the evidence points to
the opposite conclusion since Colonial Manor sent her the notice of the rent
increase immediately after her husband died. 

 
Therefore,
as an alternative to concluding that section 1954.53(d)(2) is inapplicable, the
Court would conclude that Colonial Manor and Mrs. Reyes created a new tenancy
in 2021 or February 2022, which pursuant to the terms of the December 2022
notice, was at a rental rate of $666.00, including all surcharges.  (SF 9.) 
As stated, there is no evidence that Colonial Manor did not know the
Reyes were married, and that Vilma Reyes was residing with Milton Reyes at the Unit.  By accepting rent from Milton Reyes, Colonial
Manor was accepting rent from husband and wife.  
 
Furthermore,
the Court’s ruling would fulfill the purpose behind the Costa Hawkins Act.  As the legislative history makes clear, the Costa-Hawkins Act establishes vacancy
decontrol for residential dwelling units where the former tenant has
voluntarily vacated, abandoned or been legally evicted. (Legis. Analyst,
analysis of Assem. Bill No. 1164 (1995-1996 Reg. Sess.) p. 2.)  It was not intended to be used to evict or
raise rental rates on a surviving spouse, who was not part of the initial lease
agreement.  