 Case Number:  23SMCV04773    Hearing Date:   July 10, 2024    Dept:  M CASE NAME:             Nassara LLC v. Stoll, et al. 
CASE NO.:                   23SMCV04773
MOTION:                     Petition/Motion to Compel
Arbitration 
HEARING DATE:   7/10/2024
 
LEGAL STANDARD 
 
Under California and federal law, public policy favors
arbitration as an efficient and less expensive means of resolving private
disputes. (Moncharsh v. Heily & Blase (1992) 3 Cal.4th 1,
8-9; AT&T Mobility LLC v. Concepcion (2011) 563 U.S. 333, 339.)
Accordingly, whether an agreement is governed by the California Arbitration Act
(“CAA”) or the Federal Arbitration Act (“FAA”), courts resolve doubts about an
arbitration agreement’s scope in favor of arbitration.  (Moncharsh,
supra, 3 Cal.4th at 9; Comedy Club, Inc. v. Improv West Assocs. (9th
Cir. 2009) 553 F.3d 1277, 1284; see also Engalla v. Permanente Med. Grp.,
Inc. (1997) 15 Cal.4th 951, 971-972 [“California law incorporates many of
the basic policy objectives contained in the Federal Arbitration Act, including
a presumption in favor of arbitrability [citation] and a requirement that an
arbitration agreement must be enforced on the basis of state law standards that
apply to contracts in general”].) “[U]nder both the FAA and California law,
‘arbitration agreements are valid, irrevocable, and enforceable, save upon such
grounds as exist at law or in equity for the revocation of any contract.’ ” (Higgins
v. Superior Crout (2006) 140 Cal.App.4th 1238, 1247.) 
 
“Code of Civil Procedure section 1281.2 requires a trial
court to grant a petition to compel arbitration if the court determines that an
agreement to arbitrate the controversy exists.” (Avery v. Integrated
Healthcare Holdings, Inc. (2013) 218 Cal.App.4th 50, 59, quotations
omitted.) Accordingly, “when presented with a petition to compel arbitration,
the court’s first task is to determine whether the parties have in fact agreed
to arbitrate the dispute.”  (Ibid.) A petition to compel
arbitration is in essence a suit in equity to compel specific performance of a
contract. (Id. at 71.) As with any other specific performance claim, “a
party seeking to enforce an arbitration agreement must show the agreement’s
terms are sufficiently definite to enable the court to know what it is to
enforce.” (Ibid. [internal citations omitted].) “Only the valid
and binding agreement of the parties, including all material terms well-defined
and clearly expressed, may be ordered specifically performed.” (Ibid.)
An arbitration agreement “must be so interpreted as to give effect to the
mutual intention of the parties as it existed at the time of contracting, so
far as the same is ascertainable and lawful.” (Civ. Code, § 1636.) The language
of the contract governs its interpretation if it is clear and explicit. (Civ.
Code, § 1368.) If uncertainty exists, “the language of a contract should be
interpreted most strongly against the party who caused the uncertainty to
exist.” (Civ. Code, § 1654.)  
 
The party seeking to compel arbitration bears the burden of
proving the existence of a valid arbitration agreement by the preponderance of
the evidence. (Engalla v. Permanente Medical Group, Inc. (1997) 15
Cal.4th 951, 972.) It would then be plaintiff’s burden, in opposing the motion,
to prove by a preponderance of the evidence any fact necessary to her
opposition. (Ibid.) “In these summary proceedings, the trial
court sits as a trier of fact, weighing all the affidavits, declarations, and
other documentary evidence, as well as oral testimony received at the court’s
discretion, to reach a final determination.” (Ibid.) 
 
ANALYSIS 
 
Defendants
Keith Kim and Helen Kim as Trustees of the Kim Family Trust (hereinafter, “Defendants”
or the “Kims”) move to compel Plaintiff Nassara, LLC’s claims to arbitration. 
 
Defendants assert that the instant claims are required to
go to arbitration because Plaintiff signed an arbitration agreement covering
their claims. As
with any contract, mutual assent or consent is necessary for the formation of a
valid arbitration agreement. (Civ. Code, §§ 1550, 1565.) “Consent is not
mutual, unless the parties all agree upon the same thing in the same sense.”
(Civ. Code, § 1580.) The moving party bears the initial burden of showing the
existence of an agreement to arbitrate by a preponderance of the evidence. (Mitri
v. Arnel Mgmt. Co. (2007) 157 Cal.App.4th 1164, 1169 [“Because the
existence of the agreement is a statutory prerequisite to granting the
petition, the petitioner bears the burden of proving its existence by a
preponderance of the evidence.”].)  
 
On
April 13, 2023, the Kim Family Trust, by and through its yacht broker David
Inglis, made a written contingent offer (the “Offer”) to purchase a 2020 Azimut
50 motor yacht Nassara (the subject “Vessel”) from the owner of record for
$1,230,000. (Wales Decl. ¶¶ 3-5.) On April 14, 2023, Yassine Amallal, claiming
to be the owner of record and representative of Nassara, LLC, accepted the Kim
Family Trust’s conditional offer to purchase the vessel. (Id., Ex. 1.) On June
2, 2023, the Kim Family Trust withdrew its offer as they could not clear the
contingency of a “Successful transfer of LLC ownership, free and clear of any
and all encumbrances.” (Wales Decl. ¶ 7.) The Vessel Purchase Agreement upon
which Plaintiff bases its claims against Defendants contains a broad and unambiguous
agreement to arbitrate. It states:
 
13. ARBITRATION OF DISPUTES. Any
Dispute, Claim or Controversy arising out of or related to this Agreement,
or the invalidity, interpretation, performance or breach thereof, directly or
indirectly, shall be decided by binding arbitration under the Rules of
the California Yacht Brokers Association, or of the Maritime Arbitration
Association of the United States, pursuant to the rules that are in effect for
such organizations on the date arbitration is requested. The arbitral
organization where arbitration is first commenced shall administer all arbitral
proceedings covered by this Agreement. If any provision of this agreement
conflicts with such rules, this agreement shall control. Buyer and Seller
agree to give up any rights they might possess to have the dispute litigated in
court or jury trial and their judicial rights to discovery and appeal. If
either party refuses to submit to arbitration, such party may be compelled
to arbitrate under law. Arbitration shall be conducted in the county of
Broker’s place of business handling this transaction. The prevailing party may
be awarded attorneys’ fees and costs of arbitration. Judgment may be entered
upon the arbitration award and enforced in any court having jurisdiction
thereof.
 
(Id., Ex. 1, ¶ 13,
emphasis added.)
 
There
is no dispute that the subject litigation arises from the Purchase Agreement.
Plaintiff’s claims are based upon an alleged breach of the Purchase Agreement. Plaintiff
does not contend otherwise in its opposition.
 
Plaintiff,
however, raises Code of Civil Procedure section 1281.2, which provides an
exception to arbitration when the court “determines that… [a] party to the
arbitration agreement is also a party to a pending court action or special
proceeding with a third party, arising out of the same transaction or series of
related transactions and there is a possibility of conflicting rulings on a
common issue of law or fact.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 1281.2(c).)  To avoid inconsistent results and the
possibility that each defendant will seek to escape liability by blaming the
other, the court can refuse to compel arbitration and order all parties joined
in a single action. (Mercury Ins. Group v. Superior Court (1998) 19
Cal.4th 332, 339–340.) In such cases, the parties to the arbitration agreement
are forced to litigate a dispute that they had agreed to arbitrate. (Id.
at 347–350.) The right to arbitration, created by agreement, is not absolute:
“it may have to yield if there is an issue of law or fact common to the
arbitration and a pending action or proceeding with a third party and there is
a possibility of conflicting rulings thereon.” (Id. at 348.)
 
            The Court observes no risk of
conflicting rulings of law or fact posed by the claims against the Kims when compared
to the claims against the other defendants. As pled in the complaint, the
issues are completely severable. The complaint alleges only the second cause of
action against the Kims for breach of the sales agreement. Specifically, the
Kims failed to close the purchase as required by the agreement. (Compl., ¶ 35.)
On the other hand, the complaint alleges the first, third, fourth, fifth,
sixth, seventh, and eighth causes of action against the other defendants,
arising from separate duties or contracts. Plaintiff brings claims against RJ
for failing to upkeep the Yacht as agreed in a completely separate contract.
(See Compl., ¶¶ 13-16.) Because of these failures, Plaintiff withheld
payments. (Id., ¶ 17.) In response, RJ filed a lien against the Yacht without
notifying Plaintiff. (Id.) It was only after escrow began with the Kims that
Plaintiff discovered the lien. (¶¶ 18-20.) As a result of the lien, and Plaintiff’s
apparent inability to transfer the title free and clear of the lien, the sale
fell through. (¶ 22.) Plaintiff alleges that RJ, Johnson, Stoll, Engel and
Wales breached their fiduciary duties to Plaintiff by filing the lien and
engaging in conflicts of interests during the transaction. (¶¶ 39-49.) From these
allegations, it is apparent that Plaintiff’s claim against the Kims for breach
of contract is not dependent upon the same facts or law as Plaintiff’s claims
against the other defendants. Plaintiff’s claims against the other defendants
do not arise out of Plaintiff’s or the Kims’ rights or obligations under the Purchase
Agreement. Instead, Plaintiff’s claims against the other defendants arise from separate
duties. At best, the claims are tangentially related because they relate
to the Yacht and/or its sale. 
 
The Kims met their burden to demonstrate the existence of
an arbitration agreement between the parties that covers Plaintiff’s claims.
Plaintiff, in turn, fails to demonstrate any defense to enforcement. The Kims’
motion is therefore GRANTED and the Court orders Plaintiff’s claims to
arbitration, as discussed above. The action is STAYED as to the Kims, pending
completion of the arbitration. (CCP § 1281.4.)  
 
A status conference re arbitration is set for June 3, 2025, at 8:30
a.m.