  Case Number:  19SMCV01709    Hearing Date:   July 10, 2024    Dept:  M CASE NAME:           City National
Bank v. Law Offices of Jeremy Tenser Ltd., et al.
CASE NO.:                19SMCV01709
MOTION:                  Motion
to Quash Service of Summons
HEARING DATE:   7/11/2024

 
Legal
Standard
 
“A defendant . . . may serve
and file a notice of motion for one or more of the following purposes:  (1) To quash service of summons on the ground
of lack of jurisdiction of the court over him or her. . . .”  (CCP § 418.10(a).) A court lacks jurisdiction
over a party if there has not been proper service of process. (Ruttenberg v.
Ruttenberg (1997) 53 Cal.App.4th 801, 808.) “When a motion to quash is
properly brought, the burden of proof is placed upon the plaintiff to establish
the facts of jurisdiction by a preponderance of the evidence.” (Aquila, Inc.
v. Sup. Ct. (2007) 148 Cal.App.4th 556, 568.) 
 
“[C]ompliance with the
statutory procedures for service of process is essential to establish personal
jurisdiction. [Citation.]” (Dill v. Berquist Construction Co. (1994) 24
Cal.App.4th 1426, 1444.) “[T]he filing of a proof of service creates a
rebuttable presumption that the service was proper” but only if it “complies
with the statutory requirements regarding such proofs.” (Id. at
1441-1442.) 
 
Analysis
 
Specially Appearing Cross-Defendants
Royal Bank of Canada (“RBC”), RBC Bank (Georgia) N.A. (“RBC Bank”), David McKay
(“McKay”) and Maria Douvas (“Douvas”) (together, the “RBC Parties”) move to
quash the service of summons for lack of personal jurisdiction and for failure
to comply with the statutory procedures for service of process with
international law. 
 
Due process permits state courts to exercise personal
jurisdiction over nonresidents who have “minimum contacts” with the forum
state. “Minimum contacts” means the relationship between the nonresident and
the forum state is such that the exercise of jurisdiction does not offend
“traditional notions of fair play and substantial justice” under the U.S.
Constitution's Fourteenth Amendment Due Process Clause.  (International
Shoe Co. v. Washington (1945) 326 U.S. 310, 316.) The extent to which a California court can exercise
personal jurisdiction over a defendant depends on the nature and quality of
defendant's “contacts” with the state.
 
Under a
“general” jurisdiction analysis (also called “all-purpose” or “unlimited”
jurisdiction), nonresident defendants may be sued on causes of action unrelated
to their activities within the state. (Perkins v. Benguet Consolidated
Mining Co. (1952) 342 U.S. 437, 446-447.) General
jurisdiction exists when a defendant is domiciled in the forum state or his
activities there are substantial, continuous, and systematic. (F. Hoffman-La
Roche, Inc. v. Sup. Ct. (2005) 130 Cal.App.4th 782, 796.) “In such
circumstances, it is not necessary that the specific cause of action alleged be
connected with the defendant’s business relationship to the forum.” (Id.)
“The standard for establishing general jurisdiction is ‘fairly high,’
[citation] and requires that the defendant’s contacts be of the sort that
approximate physical presence.” (Elkman, supra, 173 Cal.App.4th at
1315.) “Factors to be taken into consideration are whether the defendant makes
sales, solicits or engages in business in the state, serves the state’s markets,
designates an agent for service of process, holds a license, or is incorporated
there.” (Id.) 
 
Cross-Complainant
Adam Jeremy Tenser has the burden to set forth facts required for general or
specific jurisdiction. As Cross-Complainant fails to oppose the motion, he does
not meet this burden. Conversely, the RBC parties demonstrate that this Court lacks
general jurisdiction. According to the Second Amended Cross-Complaint
(SACC), RBC is “a multi-national public company, traded on the Toronto Stock
Exchange and New York Stock Exchange; and, at all times relevant is a Schedule
I bank under the Bank Act of Canada, with principal offices at 200 Bay Street,
South Tower, Toronto, Ontario, Canada.” (SAXC ¶ 10.) RBC does not have any
branches in California and is not registered to do business in California.
(Richardson Decl. ¶¶ 3-5.) Its head office is in Montreal, Quebec, Canada.
(Id.) RBC does not have branches or a corporate registered agent for service of
process in California. (Id. ¶ 6; Hosp Decl. ¶ 3.) 
 
McKay
is RBC’s President and Chief Executive Officer and Douvas is its Chief Legal
and Administrative Officer. (Douvas Decl. ¶ 1; Richardson Decl. ¶¶ 9-10.) They
are not domiciled in California, are not employees or officers of CNB, and are
not members of CNB’s board of directors. (Id.) McKay and Douvas do not have an
office in California. (Id.; SAXC ¶¶ 12, 14.) 
 
RBC
Bank is a separate National Banking Association organized under the laws of the
United States with its principal business office in Raleigh, North Carolina. (Wren
Decl., ¶ 3.) RBC Bank is also an indirect subsidiary of RBC, owned by RBC USA
Holdco, which is owned by RBC Group Holdco. (Id.) RBC Bank does not have any
branches in California. Day-to-day business of RBC, RBC Bank, and CNB is
managed independently. (Id. ¶ 4.) Each bank also has a separate board of
directors. (Wartburg Decl. ¶ 3.)
 
In
2015, CNB’s former parent company, City National Corporation, merged with RBC
USA Holdco. (Richardson Decl. ¶ 5.) Upon the merger, CNB became a wholly owned
subsidiary of RBC USA Holdco. (Id.) RBC USA Holdco is in turn owned by RBC
Group Holdings, an LLC formed under the laws of the State of Delaware and
headquartered in Toronto, Ontario. (Id.) However, the fact that a foreign corporation has an
in-state subsidiary or affiliate does not subject the corporate parent to
general jurisdiction in that state. (Daimler AG v. Bauman (2014) 571 US
117, 136;¿see also Young v. Daimler AG¿(2014) 228 Cal.App.4th 855,
866-867 [no general jurisdiction over parent corporation even if plaintiffs
reside in state, accident occurred there, the vehicle was purchased there, and
vehicle was manufactured by defendant's subsidiary].) CNB
retained its name, has its own officers and board of directors, maintains its
own corporate books and records, and has its own offices and employees.
(Wartburg Decl. ¶ 3.) 
 
Where general jurisdiction
cannot be established, a court may assume specific jurisdiction over a
nonresident, if the nonresident purposefully directed its activities at forum
residents, or purposefully availed itself of the privilege of conducting
activities within the forum state, thus invoking the benefits and protections
of local law. (Hanson v. Denckla (1958) 357 U.S. 235.) Specific
jurisdiction involves a three-part test: (1) the nonresident defendant must do
some act or consummate some transaction with the forum or perform some act by
which he purposefully avails himself of the privilege of conducting activities
in the forum, thereby invoking the benefits and protections of its laws; (2)
the claim must be one which arises out of or results from the defendant's
forum-related activities; and (3) exercise of jurisdiction must be
reasonable.”¿¿(Jewish Defense Organization, Inc. v. Sup. Ct. of Los Angeles
County (1999) 72 Cal.App.4th 1045, 1054 [purposeful¿availment¿exists where
a defendant performed some type of affirmative conduct which allows or promotes
the transaction of business within the forum state].)
 
The RBC Parties lack the minimum
contacts with California necessary for this Court to exercise personal
jurisdiction. Again, Cross-Complainant does not oppose and therefore fails to
meet its burden. None of the allegations involve any affirmative acts by the
RBC Parties that were directed or took place in California. Instead, The SACC
relies on an apparent theory of vicarious liability, ratification of City
National Bank’s conduct, which allegedly impacted all commercial banking
clients. (SACC ¶ 96.) On June 19, 2015, the Law Firm applied for a business
line of credit with CNB. (SAXC ¶¶ 26, 47–52.) The Law Firm also applied for
(and later entered into) a business overdraft line agreement with CNB on August
29, 2018. (Id. ¶¶ 33–35.) CNB wrongfully cancelled the Law Firm’s line of
credit on January 25, 2019 and its overdraft line on February 19, 2019. (Id. ¶¶
36–38, 72.) CNB deducted funds from the Law Firm’s account to satisfy an order
from the California Franchise Tax Board (“FTB”), only to later return the
funds, resulting in a state tax delinquency. (SACC ¶¶ 36–41.) CNB’s former
outside counsel, also based in California, breached his privacy and threatened
him. (Id. ¶¶ 15–18, 42–44.) Tenser pleads causes of action for fraud, extortion,
violations of the federal Racketeer Influenced and Corrupt Organization Act
(RICO), negligence, and violations of California’s Unfair Competition Law
(UCL). (Id. ¶¶ 45–113.) The RBC Parties allegedly “authorized,” “fail[ed] to
correct,” “indicate[d] a passive and indifferent attitude,” and “adopt[ed]”
CNB’s fraudulent conduct as their own. (SAXC ¶¶ 69, 101, 103.)  
 
CNB
parties’ evidence shows that there is no pervasive and continuous control over
CNB’s day-to-day operations. CNB retained its name, has its own officers and
board of directors, maintains its own corporate books and records, and has its
own offices and employees. (Wartburg Decl. ¶¶ 2–3.) RBC Bank is headquartered
in North Carolina, not California, and lacks any subsidiary relationship with
CNB. The cross-complaint does not allege any California connected conduct by
McKay or Douvas in their personal or professional capacities. Therefore,
personal jurisdiction is not established.
 
As a separate basis to quash,
cross-complainant fails to establish valid service on the foreign defendants.
The proof of service shows that on March 8, 2024, the process server personally
delivered the service documents to Raven Gero, Office of Jennifer Liu, Counsel,
Royal Bank of Canada at 200 Bay Street, South Tower, 6th Floor, Toronto,
Ontario, Canada M5J 2J5. However, Raven Gero is not an employee of RBC Bank, is
not a designated agent for service of process for RBC Bank, or an officer,
general manager, or a person authorized by RBC Bank to receive service of
process. (Wren Decl., ¶6.) Raven Gero is a law clerk who works at RBC’s
headquarters in Toronto, Canada. (Richardson Decl., ¶ 11.) Gero also is not an
agent for, or authorized to accept service of process on behalf of, McKay and
Douvas. 
 
Accordingly,
the motion to quash is GRANTED.