 Case Number:  21STCV16532    Hearing Date:   September 26, 2023    Dept:  27 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Kerry Bensinger, Department 27
 
 
HEARING DATE:     September
26, 2023                           TRIAL
DATE:  February 8, 2024
                                                           
CASE:                                Martha Ann Presley v. Walmart, Inc., et al.
 
CASE NO.:                 21STCV16532
 





















 
MOTION
FOR TARDY EXPERT DESIGNATION



 
MOVING PARTY:               Plaintiff
Martha Ann Presley
 
RESPONDING PARTY:     Defendants
Walmart Inc. and Cintas Corporation No. 2
 
 
I.          BACKGROUND
 
            On May 3, 2021, Plaintiff, Martha Ann Presley, initiated this
action against Defendants[1],
Walmart Inc. (“Walmart”) and Cintas Corporation No. 2 (“Cintas”), for injuries Plaintiff
sustained when she tripped and fell on a floor mat in a Walmart Store.  
 
On
April 7, 2023, Walmart filed an Ex Parte Application to Continue Trial and Related
Dates.  On April 10, 2023, the Court[2] granted, in part,
and denied, in part Walmart’s application. 
Pursuant to Walmart’s request, trial was continued to September 27,
2023.  Discovery and all
related dates remained tied to initial trial date of June 30,
2023.  
 
Based
on the June 30, 2023 trial date, Walmart and Cintas timely served Plaintiff
with their demands for exchange of expert designations on April 11, 2023 and
April 19, 2023, respectively.  Cintas
served Plaintiff with its expert designations on May 11, 2023.  Walmart did not designate any experts.  Plaintiff did not serve expert designations.
 
On June 27, 2023,
Plaintiff filed an Ex Parte Application to Continue FSC and Trial Dates and to
Extend All Related Dates Including Defendant’s Motion for Summary
Judgment.  When Walmart filed opposition
to the application and referenced Plaintiff’s failure to exchange expert
witness designation, Plaintiff’s counsel realized for the first time that she failed
to timely designate experts.  Thereafter,
Plaintiff’s counsel worked to prepare and complete an expert witness
designation.  Plaintiff served Walmart and
Cintas with the designation on June 30 2023.
 
On July 12, 2023,
Plaintiff filed an Ex Parte Application for a Tardy Expert Designation.  On July 13, 2023, the Court denied the
application for lack of exigency and directed Plaintiff to file a noticed
motion or obtain a stipulation from all parties.
 
On July 20, 2023,
Plaintiff filed an Ex Parte Application to Continue Walmart’s Motion for
Summary Judgment/Adjudication Hearing Date, FSC, and Trial Date and Extend All
Related Dates.  On July 21, 2023, the
Court granted in part and denied in part Plaintiff’s application.  Pursuant to Plaintiff’s request, trial was
continued to February 8, 2024 and Walmart’s summary judgment motion was
specially set to be heard on October 24, 2023. 
All discovery was closed with the exception of the hearing on the tardy
expert designation.  
 
On August 29,
2023, Plaintiff filed this Motion for Tardy Expert Designation.  Walmart and Cintas have each filed an
Oppositions.  Plaintiff filed a Reply. 
 
II.        LEGAL STANDARDS
            Any party may demand a mutual and
simultaneous exchange by all parties of a list containing the name and address
of any person whose oral or deposition testimony in the form of an expert
opinion any party expects to offer in evidence at the trial.  (Code Civ.
Proc., § 2034.210, subd. (a).)  “On motion of any party who has failed to
submit expert witness information on the date specified in a demand for that
exchange, the court may grant leave to submit that information on a later
date.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2034.710, subd. (a).)  The motion shall
be made a sufficient time in advance of the time limit for the completion of
discovery to permit the deposition of any expert to whom the motion relates to
be taken within that time limit.  Under exceptional circumstances, the
court may permit the motion to be made at a later time.  (Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 2034.610, subd. (b).)  The motion shall be accompanied by a meet and
confer declaration.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2034.610, subd. (c).) 
            The court shall grant leave to submit
tardy expert witness information only if all of the following conditions are
satisfied: 
            (a) the court has taken into account
the extent to which the opposing party has relied on the absence of a list of
expert witnesses; 
            (b) the court has determined that
any party opposing the motion will not be prejudiced in maintaining that
party’s action or defense on the merits; 
            (c) the court has determined that
the moving party did all of the following: (1) failed to submit the information
as the result of mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or excusable neglect, (2)
sought leave to submit the information promptly after learning of the mistake,
inadvertence, surprise, or excusable neglect; and (3) promptly thereafter
served a copy of the proposed expert witness information described in Section
2034.260 on all other parties who have appeared in the action; and,
            (d) the order is conditioned on the
moving party making the expert available immediately for a deposition, and on
any other terms as may be just, including, but not limited to, leave to any
party opposing the motion to designate additional expert witnesses or to elicit
additional opinions from those previously designated, a continuance of the
trial for a reasonable period of time, and the awarding of costs and litigation
expenses to any party opposing the motion.  
(Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 2034.720.) 
III.      DISCUSSION
A. Meet and
Confer
 
Plaintiff’s
counsel has satisfied this requirement. 
(Marzban Decl., ¶¶
6, 9.)
 
B.  Analysis
 
Plaintiff seeks leave to submit a tardy
expert witness designation and reopen discovery due to a clerical error.  After
consideration of the factors, the Court finds Plaintiff is not entitled to an
order relieving Plaintiff of her waiver to submit an expert witness
designation.       
            The Applicable Test (Code Civ.
Proc., § 2034.620) 
(a)  Reliance on the Expert Witness List¿ 
            Walmart argues it relied on the
absence of Plaintiff’s expert witness designation when it did not retain a rebuttal
liability expert and when it filed its summary judgment motion.  Plaintiff argues Walmart cannot show reliance
on either ground.  First, Walmart failed
to designate any experts.  Second, Walmart
filed its summary judgment motion before serving its demand for exchange of
expert designations.  Plaintiff’s
arguments have merit.  Walmart failed to
designate any experts.  “Our system
requires defendants participate in the litigation essentially simultaneously
with plaintiff.”  (Fairfax v. Lords (2006)
138 Cal.App.4th 1019, 1027.)  As such,
Walmart should have designated experts, including a liability expert, if it
anticipated Plaintiff would do the same. 
Walmart failed to do so and cannot now claim reliance on Plaintiff’s
missing expert designations.  Further, Walmart
filed its motion for summary judgment on March 13, 2023 and later served its
demand for exchange of expert designations on April 11, 2023.  Walmart could not have relied on Plaintiff’s
expert witness designation, served or not. 
Cintas does not discuss at all having relied on Plaintiff’s missing
expert witness list.  As such, this
factor weighs in Plaintiff’s favor.   
            (b) Prejudice¿ 
            Plaintiff argues Walmart and Cintas
will not suffer prejudice, and further, Plaintiff has proposed solutions to
resolve any potential prejudice to Defendants. 
Those solutions include, but are not limited to, allowing Walmart to
designate experts and Cintas to supplement their expert designation; making two
of Plaintiff’s experts available for deposition before any defense expert is
deposed; and paying for the defense depositions of Plaintiff’s experts.  Walmart contends it will be prejudiced if
discovery is opened at this late stage but does not otherwise offer any insight
into how they will suffer prejudice.  Cintas
argues that it will be prejudiced by having to incur additional expenses in
having to contend with Plaintiff’s expert’s opinions.  However, Plaintiff has already offered
various solutions which will mitigate Cintas’s concerns.  (See Marzban Decl., ¶ 7.)  This factor also weighs in Plaintiff’s favor.
(c) Excuse – Plaintiff must demonstrate all
of the following: 
             (c)(1) Failed to submit the
information as the result of mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or excusable
neglect.
(c)(2) Sought leave to submit the information promptly
after learning of the mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or excusable neglect.
(c)(3) Promptly thereafter served a copy of the proposed
expert witness information described in Section 2034.260 on all other parties
who have appeared in the action.
            Plaintiff argues the failure to
serve a timely expert witness list is the result of mistake,  inadvertence, or excusable neglect.  Laura Motaghy, legal secretary for Plaintiff’s
counsel, explains that she inputted the trial date of September 27, 2023 into
calendaring software which automatically generated an expert exchange date of
August 8, 2023.  Plaintiff’s counsel
proceeded with this case using this date and other deadlines set based on a
September 27, 2023 trial date.  Ms. Motaghy,
however, did not realize that discovery and all related dates remained tied to
the prior June trial date.  (See Motaghy
Decl.)  Plaintiff’s counsel represents
having learned of the mistake on June 27, 2023 when Cintas filed opposition to
Plaintiff’s ex parte application. 
Thereafter, Plaintiff’s counsel prepared and served Walmart and Cintas
with Plaintiff’s expert designation on June 30, 2023.  Plaintiff’s counsel further explains
believing Walmart’s and Cintas’s demands for exchange of expert designations in
April of 2023, and Cintas’s service of its expert witness designations in May
of 2023, to be early.  Plaintiff
satisfies prongs (c)(1) and (c)(3).
            Plaintiff also satisfies prong
(c)(2).  Fifteen days later after
learning of the mistake, on July 12, 2023, Plaintiff filed an ex parte
application for tardy expert designation. 
The Court could not grant Plaintiff’s application because a motion for tardy
expert designation cannot be accomplished by ex parte application.  (See 7/13/23 Minute Order.)  As required by the Eighth Amended Standing
Order, the Court directed Plaintiff to file a noticed motion.  Plaintiff did so on August 29, 2023.  
            Walmart and Cintas argue Plaintiff
did not promptly seek leave to serve a tardy expert designation.  Plaintiff originally reserved a hearing date
of August 7, 2023 for this motion yet inexplicably continued the hearing to
this date of September 27, 2023 and filed its motion on August 29, 2023.  However, waiting until August 29, 2023 to
seek relief by noticed motion is not beyond the pale.  Moreover, when considering Plaintiff first attempted
to rectify her error by ex parte application on July 12, 2023, Plaintiff demonstrates
prompt action.  
            The Court must grant leave to a
party to file a tardy expert designation if all the conditions are met.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2034.720.)  Here, Plaintiff
meets all the conditions.
            Accordingly, Plaintiff’s Motion for
Tardy Expert Designation is GRANTED.
IV.       CONCLUSION 
 
The motion is granted. 

 
Plaintiff must immediately make her experts available for
deposition and is responsible for the costs of the depositions, including the
court reporter fee, Plaintiff’s expert’s time, and reasonable fees related to defense
counsel’s time to prepare and take the deposition.  Plaintiff’s experts’ depositions are to take place
before the depositions of any defense expert. 
Additionally, Plaintiff is limited to offering one liability expert witness.  Defendants Walmart, Inc. and Cintas
Corporation No. 2 designation of supplemental and responsive experts and
discovery cut-off related thereto shall be tied to the February 8, 2024, trial
date.  
s.  
 
Moving party to give notice. 

 
 
Dated:   September 26,
2023                                   ___________________________________
                                                                                    Kerry
Bensinger
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court
 
            Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must send an
email to the Court at SSCDEPT27@lacourt.org indicating intention to submit on
the tentative as directed by the instructions provided on the court website at
www.lacourt.org.  Please be advised that if you submit on the tentative
and elect not to appear at the hearing, the opposing party may nevertheless
appear at the hearing and argue the matter.  Unless you receive a
submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume that others
might appear at the hearing to argue.  If the Court does not receive
emails from the parties indicating submission on this tentative ruling and
there are no appearances at the hearing, the Court may, at its discretion,
adopt the tentative as the final order or place the motion off calendar. 


