 Case Number:  22STCV14065    Hearing Date:   September 26, 2023    Dept:  27 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Kerry Bensinger, Department 27
 
 
HEARING DATE:     September
26, 2023                           TRIAL
DATE:  October 26, 2023
                                                           
CASE:                                James Bowers v. Arman Tarverdyan, et al.
 
CASE NO.:                 22STCV14065
 





















 
MOTION
TO DEEM ADMITTED REQUESTS FOR ADMISSIONS, SET ONE



 
MOVING PARTY:               Defendants
Arman Taverdyan, Marina Zakarian F-Taverdyan, Frederik Taverdyan, and ITT
Marketing, Inc.
 
RESPONDING PARTY:     No opposition
 
 
I.          BACKGROUND
 
            On April 28, 2022, Plaintiff, James Bowers, initiated this
action against Defendants, Arman Taverdyan, Marina Zakarian F-Taverdyan,
Frederik Taverdyan, and ITT Marketing, Inc., for injuries arising from a motor
vehicle accident.   
 
On
April 24, 2023, Defendants served Plaintiff with Requests for Admissions, Set
One.  Having not received responses, on June
7, 2023, Defendants filed this motion to deem admitted the Requests for Admissions against Plaintiff.[1]  Defendants request sanctions against Plaintiff.
 
The motion is unopposed.[2]
 
II.        LEGAL STANDARDS
 
If a party to
whom requests for admission are directed fails to serve a timely response, the
propounding party may move for an order that the truth of the matters specified
in the requests be deemed admitted.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2033.280, subd. (b).)¿
Moreover, failure to timely serve responses waives objections to the
requests.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2033.280, subd. (a).)   
 
            Monetary Sanctions 
            Code
of Civil Procedure section 2023.030 is a general statute authorizing the Court
to impose discovery sanctions for “misuse of the discovery process,” which
includes (without limitation) a variety of conduct such as: making, without
substantial justification, an unmeritorious objection to discovery; making an
evasive response to discovery; and unsuccessfully and without substantial
justification making or opposing a motion to compel or limit discovery.¿ (Code
Civ. Proc., § 2023.010.)¿¿¿ 
            If
sanctions are sought, Code of Civil Procedure section 2023.040 requires that
the notice specify the identity of the person against whom sanctions are sought
and the type of sanction requested, that the motion be supported in the points
and authorities, and the facts be set forth in a declaration supporting the
amount of any monetary sanction.¿¿ 
            In
the context of a motion to deem requests for admissions admitted, it is
mandatory that the court impose monetary sanctions on the party or attorney, or
both, whose failure to serve a timely response to the request necessitated the
motion.¿(Code Civ. Proc., § 2033.280, subd. (c).)¿ 
III.      DISCUSSION
 
Defendants
served Plaintiff with the admissions requests on April 28, 2023.  At the time of the filing of this motion, Plaintiff
has not provided responses.  As Defendants properly served the admissions
requests and Plaintiff failed to serve responses, the Court finds Defendants are
entitled to an order deeming admitted Requests
for Admissions, Set One, against Plaintiff.  
 
Monetary
Sanctions
 
Defendants
seek sanctions against Plaintiff.  In the
context of a motion to deem requests for admissions admitted, it is mandatory
that the court impose monetary sanctions on the party or attorney, or both,
whose failure to serve a timely response to the request necessitated the
motion.¿ (Code Civ. Proc., § 2033.280, subd. (c).)¿ Accordingly, sanctions
are imposed against Plaintiff in the sum of $236.50, consisting of 1 hour at
defense counsel’s hourly rate and $61.50 in filing fees.
 
IV.       CONCLUSION 
 
The motion is granted.  Defendants’ Requests for Admissions, Set One, is
deemed admitted against Plaintiff James Bowers.
 
The request for sanctions
is granted.  Sanctions are imposed
against Plaintiff in the sum of $236.50 to be paid to Defendants, by and
through their counsel.
            
Moving party to give notice. 

 
 
 
Dated:   September 26,
2023                                   ___________________________________
                                                                                    Kerry
Bensinger
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court
 
            Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must send an
email to the Court at SSCDEPT27@lacourt.org indicating intention to submit on
the tentative as directed by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org. 
Please be advised that if you submit on the tentative and elect not to appear
at the hearing, the opposing party may nevertheless appear at the hearing and
argue the matter.  Unless you receive a submission from all other parties
in the matter, you should assume that others might appear at the hearing to
argue.  If the Court does not receive emails from the parties indicating
submission on this tentative ruling and there are no appearances at the
hearing, the Court may, at its discretion, adopt the tentative as the final
order or place the motion off calendar. 


