 Case Number:  21STCV21843    Hearing Date:   September 26, 2023    Dept:  27 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Kerry Bensinger, Department 27
 
 
HEARING DATE:      September 26, 2023                   TRIAL DATE:  March 21, 2024
                                                           
CASE:                         Salvador Alvarado v. Lowe’s Home Centers, LLC, et al. 
 
CASE NO.:                 21STCV21843
 





















 
MOTIONS
TO COMPEL ATTENDANCE OF NONPARTY AT DEPOSITION 



 
MOVING PARTY:               Defendants
Lowe’s Home Centers, LLC and Anthony Guerrera
 
RESPONDING PARTY:     No opposition 
 
 
I.          BACKGROUND
 
            On June 11, 2021, Plaintiff, Salvador Alvarado, initiated
this action against Defendants, Lowe’s Home Centers, LLC (“Lowe’s”), and Anthony
Guerrera, for injuries arising from an assault and battery when Plaintiff
attempted to leave a Lowe’s store.  
                     
            On July 1,
2022, Defendants served subpoenas on SoCal Imaging, Inc. and Pacific MRI
requesting medical records, billing records, and diagnostic imaging studies
related to Plaintiff’s injuries.  SoCal
Imaging, Inc. and Pacific MRI each produced medical records only.  
 
            In order to
obtain the remainder of the requested documents, on January 10, 2023,
Defendants served the Custodians of Records for SoCal Imaging, Inc. and Pacific
MRI with Deposition Subpoenas.  Defendants
attached a Notice of Taking Deposition of Custodian of Records and Request for
Production of Documents at the Time of Deposition.  To date, the Custodians of Records for SoCal
Imaging, Inc. and Pacific MRI have not appeared for deposition or produced the
requested documents.
 
            On March 8,
2023, Plaintiff filed these motions to compel the Custodians of Records for
SoCal Imaging, Inc. and Pacific MRI to appear at deposition and produce the
requested documents.  Defendants seek
sanctions against the nonparty deponents.
 
            The motions
are unopposed.
 
II.        LEGAL STANDARDS 
 
            Any
party may obtain discovery by taking in California the oral deposition of any
person.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.010.)  A deposition subpoena may
command the attendance and the testimony of a nonparty deponent, as well as the
production of business records, other documents, electronically stored
information, and tangible things.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2020.020.)  If a nonparty deponent fails to answer any
question or to produce any document, electronically stored information, or
tangible thing under the deponent’s control that is specified in the deposition
notice or a deposition subpoena, the party seeking discovery may move the court
for an order compelling that answer or production.  (Code Civ. Proc. §§
2024.480, 2025.480.)   
 
            If
the nonparty deponent is a natural person, any person may serve the subpoena by
personal delivery of a copy of it to that person.  (Code Civ. Proc., §
2020.220, subd. (b)(1).) Personal service of any deposition subpoena is
effective to require the personal attendance and testimony of the nonparty
deponent, if the subpoena so specifies.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2020.220,
subd. (c)(1).)   
 
            “A
written notice and all moving papers supporting a motion to compel an answer to
a deposition question or to compel production of a document or tangible thing
from a nonparty deponent must be personally served on the nonparty deponent
unless the nonparty deponent agrees to accept service by mail or electronic
service at an address or electronic service address specified on the deposition
record.”¿ (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1346.)  
 
III.      DISCUSSION
 
            Defendants
properly served SoCal Imaging, Inc. and Pacific MRI with a subpoena and a
notice of deposition on January 10, 2023.  The depositions were scheduled
for February 15, 2023.  However, the
Custodians of Records for SoCal Imaging, Inc. and Pacific MRI each failed to
interpose any objections or to appear.  (See Rivera Decls.)   
 
Accordingly, the motions to compel SoCal Imaging, Inc. and
Pacific MRI to produce their Custodian of Records to appear for deposition and
to produce documents are GRANTED. 
 
            Monetary
Sanctions
 
            Defendants
seeks monetary sanctions against SoCal Imaging, Inc. and Pacific MRI.  Given the Court’s disposition of the motion,
sanctions are warranted.  
 
            Accordingly,
sanctions are imposed against SoCal Imaging, Inc. in the sum of $350,
consisting of two hours at defense counsel’s hourly rate and $60 in filing
fees.
 
            Sanctions
are imposed against Pacific MRI in the sum of $350, consisting of two hours at
defense counsel’s hourly rate and $60 in filing fees.
 
IV.       CONCLUSION 
 
The motions are granted.  The Court orders Pacific
Imaging, Inc. and Pacific MRI to produce their Custodian of Records for
deposition and to produce documents requested in the subpoena within 20 days of
this order. 
 
The request for monetary sanctions is granted.  
 
Sanctions are imposed against SoCal Imaging, Inc. in the sum
of $350, consisting of two hours at defense counsel’s hourly rate and $60 in
filing fees.
 
Sanctions are imposed against Pacific MRI in the sum of
$350, consisting of two hours at defense counsel’s hourly rate and $60 in
filing fees.
 
Sanctions are to be paid within 30 days of this order.
 
Moving party to give notice. 

 
 
Dated:   September 26,
2023                                   ___________________________________
                                                                                    Kerry
Bensinger
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court
 
            Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must send an
email to the Court at SSCDEPT27@lacourt.org indicating intention to submit on
the tentative as directed by the instructions provided on the court website at
www.lacourt.org.  Please be advised that if you submit on the tentative
and elect not to appear at the hearing, the opposing party may nevertheless
appear at the hearing and argue the matter.  Unless you receive a
submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume that others
might appear at the hearing to argue.  If the Court does not receive
emails from the parties indicating submission on this tentative ruling and
there are no appearances at the hearing, the Court may, at its discretion,
adopt the tentative as the final order or place the motion off calendar. 
 
 