 Case Number:  20STCV39294    Hearing Date:   July 5, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


July
  5, 2024




CASE NUMBER:


20STCV39294




MOTIONS:  


Motion
  for Judgment on the Pleadings   




MOVING PARTY:


Plaintiff Alexandra Delgado 




OPPOSING PARTY:


Defendants
  Maria Dolores Gutierrez,
  Joseph Rene Velasco, and Genaro Rene Velasco



 
 
BACKGROUND
 
On
October 13, 2020, Plaintiff Alexandra Delgado (“Plaintiff”) filed a complaint
against Defendants Maria Dolores Gutierrez, Joseph Rene Velasco, and Genardo
Rene Velasco (“Defendants”) for injuries resulting from a motor vehicle
accident. On November 13, 2020, Defendants filed an answer. 
 
On January
25, 2024, the Court granted Defendants’ motion for leave to file an amended
answer to assert eight affirmative defenses related to a purported settlement
agreement between Defendants and Plaintiff. (Min. Order, 1/25/24.) 
 
On January
29, 2024, Defendants filed their first amended answer to Plaintiff’s complaint.

 
Plaintiff
now moves for judgment on the pleadings, against affirmative defenses numbers
15 to 22 in the amended answer. Defendants oppose and Plaintiff replies. 
 
LEGAL
STANDARD 
 
The standard for ruling on a motion for judgment on the
pleadings is essentially the same as that applicable to a general demurrer,
that is, under the state of the pleadings, together with matters that may be
judicially noticed, it appears that a party is entitled to judgment as a matter
of law.  (Bezirdjian v. O'Reilly (2010) 183 Cal.App.4th 316, 321-322,
citing Schabarum v. California Legislature (1998) 60 Cal.App.4th 1205, 1216.) 
Matters which are subject to mandatory judicial notice may be treated as part
of the complaint and may be considered without notice to the parties. Matters
which are subject to permissive judicial notice must be specified in the notice
of motion, the supporting points and authorities, or as the court otherwise
permits. (Id.) The motion may not be supported by extrinsic evidence. (Barker
v. Hull (1987) 191 Cal.App.3d 221, 236.) 
 
When the moving party is a plaintiff, a motion for judgment
on the pleadings may be made on the following grounds: “the complaint states
facts sufficient to constitute a cause or causes of action against the
defendant and the answer does not state facts sufficient to constitute a
defense to the complaint.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 438(c)(1)(A).)   
 
“[I]n order for judicial
notice to support a motion for judgment on the pleadings by negating an express
allegation of the pleading, the notice must be of something that cannot
reasonably be controverted…The same is true of evidentiary admissions or
concessions.” (Columbia Casualty Co. v. Northwestern Nat. Ins. Co.
(1991) 231 Cal.App.3d 457, 468.)  
 
The same pleading of “ultimate facts” rather than
evidentiary matter or legal conclusions is required as in pleading the
complaint. The effect of a general denial in an answer is to put in issue
the material allegations of the complaint. (Advantec Group, Inc. v. Edwin’s
Plumbing Co., Inc. (2007) 153 Cal.App.4th 621, 627.)   
 
In addition to denials, the answer should contain whatever
affirmative defenses or objections to the complaint that defendant may have,
and that would otherwise not be in issue under a simple denial.  Such
affirmative defenses or objections are “new matter” and must be specially
pleaded. (Walsh v. West Valley Mission Community College Dist. (1998) 66
Cal.App.4th 1532, 1546; Code Civ. Proc. §
431.30(b).) Also, the
answer must aver facts as carefully and with as much detail as the facts which
constitute the cause of action and which are alleged in the complaint.  (FPI
Development, Inc. v. Nakashimi (1991) 231 Cal.App.3d 367, 384.)  The various
affirmative defenses must be separately stated and must refer to the causes of
action to which they relate “in a manner by which they may be intelligently
distinguished.”  (Code Civ. Proc. §431.30(g).)  In sum, California is
a fact pleading jurisdiction, not a notice pleading jurisdiction like the
federal courts, such that merely putting an opposing party on notice is not
sufficient.  (Bach v. County of Butte (1983) 147 Cal.App.3d 554,
561; see Diodes, Inc. v. Franzen (1968) 260 Cal.App.2d 244,
250.)   
 
The critical inquiry when a plaintiff demurs to an answer
is whether the answer raises a defense to plaintiff’s stated cause of
action.  (Timberidge Enterprises, Inc. v. City of Santa Rosa (1978) 86
Cal.App.3d 873, 879-880.) Demurrers to a complaint or an answer generally follow the
same rules; however, there are some important differences.  (South
Shore Land Co. v. Petersen (1964) 226 Cal.App.2d 725, 733.)   
 
First, for a demurrer to an answer, the defect in question
need not appear on the face of the answer.  (Id.)  “The
determination of the sufficiency of the answer requires an examination of the
complaint because its adequacy is with reference to the complaint it purports
to answer. [Citations.] This requirement, however, does not mean that the
allegations of the complaint, if denied, are to be taken as true, the rule
being that the demurrer to the answer admits all issuable facts pleaded therein
and eliminates all allegations of the complaint denied by the answer.
[Citations.]” (Id.)  Second, for purposes of a demurrer to an
answer, each defense in the answer must be considered separately without regard
to any other defense.  (Id. at 733-34.)  Thus, a separately
stated defense that is sufficient in form and substance when viewed in
isolation does not become insufficient when, on looking at the answer as a whole, that defense appears inconsistent with other parts of the
answer. (Id.)  Third, because a defendant is entitled to plead
inconsistent defenses, where one separate answer denies all of the
allegations of the plaintiff's complaint, the plaintiff is not excused from
making proof of the material facts because of admissions of some or all of them
found in other and separate answers of the defendant. (Id. at
734.)    
 
MEET
AND CONFER
 
A
motion for judgment on the pleadings must be accompanied by a meet and confer
declaration demonstrating an attempt to meet and confer in person or by
telephone, at least five days before the date a motion for judgment on the
pleadings is filed. (Code Civ. Proc., § 439.) Here, the Declaration of Claudia
Smith, Plaintiff’s counsel, does not describe a meet and confer prior to filing
this motion. Nevertheless, “[a] determination by the court that the meet and
confer process was insufficient shall not be grounds to grant or deny the
motion for judgment on the pleadings.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 439(a)(4).) 
 
JUDICIAL
NOTICE
 
Pursuant
to Plaintiff’s request, the Court takes judicial notice of the complaint in the
related action, case number 24STCV00168. (Evid. Code § 452(d).) 
 
DISCUSSION

 
As an initial matter, in opposition, Defendants correctly note that
Plaintiff served this motion 15 court days in advance of the hearing, rather
than the 18 court days required since this motion was served electronically. On
June 21, 2024, Plaintiff separately applied for relief under Code of Civil
Procedure section 473(b) for the late filing. On June 26, 2024, Defendants
filed an opposition to the application for relief. However, upon reviewing
Defendants’ opposition, the Court excuses the procedural defect, finding that
Defendants were not prejudiced. 
 
Plaintiff argues that affirmative defenses 15 to 22 contain only legal
conclusions, and thus fail to state facts to constitute a defense. 
 
Upon reviewing the affirmative defenses, the Court finds that affirmative
defenses numbers 15, 17, 19, 21, and 22 fail to state facts to support their
assertions and are legal conclusions. However, the remaining affirmative
defenses are sufficient since they allege a settlement agreement. To the extent
that Plaintiff argues there was no settlement agreement based on the exhibits
in the complaint in case number 24STCV00168, the Court finds the contents
of those exhibits are reasonably subject to dispute, and not judicially
noticeable. 
 
Therefore, the motion is granted with leave to amend because the Court
finds that Defendants can reasonably amend their answer. 
 
Because the motion is granted in part, the Court declines to award
sanctions for Defendants. 
 
CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
 
Accordingly, Plaintiff
Alexandra Delgado’s motion for judgment
on the pleadings is GRANTED in part as to affirmative defenses 15, 17,
19, 21, and 22 with leave to amend. Any
amended answer must be filed and served within 10 days.
 
Plaintiff shall give notice of
the Court’s order and file a proof of service of such.