 Case Number:  22STCV13548    Hearing Date:   July 5, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


July
  5, 2024




CASE NUMBER:


22STCV13548




MOTIONS:  


Petition
  for Approval of Compromise 




MOVING PARTY:


Petitioner Lillian Monica McFarland 




OPPOSING PARTY:


Unopposed
  



 
 
The Court has reviewed the
Petition to Approve Compromise of Pending Action of a Person with a Disability, filed on May 14, 2024 by
Petitioner Lillian Monica McFarland (Petitioner) on behalf of Claimant Taylor Swelstad, age 20. The Court denies
the petition without prejudice for the following reasons. 
 
As an initial matter, Petitioner indicates she is the guardian
ad litem for Claimant. However, there is no order appointing Petitioner as
guardian ad litem in the Court’s docket. Petitioner submits proof that she was
appointed the limited conservator of Claimant. However, the order does not
appear to grant Petitioner the power to approve settlements or initiate
lawsuits on Claimant’s behalf. 
 
Assuming Petitioner is appointed guardian ad litem, the
Court observes the following defects in the petition. 
 
Petitioner asserts Claimant is not fully recovered
and her emotional injuries are permanent. Petitioner must provide attachment
8 with copies of medical records or a report describing Claimant’s current
condition.  
 
Petitioner must complete item 12a, even if the values are
$0. Petitioner asserts in item 7 that Claimant received therapy from her
injuries. Any medical expenses, payments, and reductions must be disclosed in
item 12a.
 
Petitioner requests $180,000 in attorney fees which represents
40% of the gross settlement. Petitioner must include an attorney declaration in
attachment 13a discussing the factors in California Rules of Court, rule 7.955(b).

 
Petitioner has made contradictory selections in item 14.
If Petitioner has paid no fees or expenses, then she should not mark selections
in 14b. 
 
Petitioner must make a selection in 17f. 
 
Petitioner marked item 18a(3)(e), indicating there is a
conservatorship of Claimant’s estate but the proceeds will not become part of
the conservatorship of the estate. However, the conservatorship documents
attached to the petition show there is not a conservatorship of Claimant’s
estate, but rather her person. If there is no conservatorship of the estate,
then Petitioner must mark a selection in item 18b instead. Also, in the future,
Petitioner should notate this petition in the Court’s reservation system as one
seeking a special needs trust. Failure to do so may result in further delay.
 
Petitioner marked item 20 but there is no attachment 20
in the petition.
 
Accordingly, the Court denies the petition without
prejudice.
 
Petitioner shall give notice and file a
proof of service of such.
 