 Case Number:  22STCV30964    Hearing Date:   July 5, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


July
  5, 2024




CASE NUMBER:


22STCV30964




MOTIONS:  


Petition
  for Minors Compromise 




MOVING PARTY:


Petitioner Lizeth Galvez Radillo 




OPPOSING PARTY:


Unopposed
  



 
 
The Court has reviewed the petition
filed on May 22, 2024 by Petitioner Lizeth Galvez Radillo (Petitioner) on
behalf of Claimant Julian Campos, age 13. The Court denies the petition without prejudice for the following
reasons:
 
Petitioner must use the most updated forms MC-350, MC-351,
MC-355 in future petitions. Note: the item numbers used in this order refer to
the numbers in the instant petition and will vary from the numbers in the
updated form MC-350. 
 
Petitioner must provide further information in item 6
describing how the laceration to skull and temporal bone fracture occurred from
the hook embedding into Claimant’s finger. (See item 7.) Additionally, the
medical records attached do not show Claimant’s current condition since they
only describe the treatment on the day of the incident. The records also do not
show any skull laceration. Petitioner must provide further medical records, a
medical report, or other evidence attesting to Claimant’s condition. 
 
Page 3 is missing from the petition.
 
Petitioner must make a selection in item 12. 
 
Petitioner requests $12,500 in
attorney fees which represents 25% of the gross settlement. The Court finds this to be
reasonable. 
 
In the proposed order (MC-351), Petitioner must include
Claimant’s name in item 4. 
 
 
Petitioner shall give notice and file a
proof of service of such.
 