  Case Number:  20STCV00145    Hearing Date:   July 5, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


July
  5 2024




CASE NUMBER:


20STCV00145




MOTIONS:  


(1)  
  Compel Further Responses to Form Interrogatories, Set
  One
(2)  
  Compel Further Responses to Request for Production, Set
  One




MOVING PARTY:


Defendant Adan Villareal  




OPPOSING PARTY:


Plaintiff
  Matthew Morgan  



 
 
BACKGROUND
 
On March 21, 2024, Defendant Adan Villareal’s (“Defendant”) Form
Interrogatories, Set One and Request for Production of Documents, Set One directed
to Plaintiff Matthew Morgan (“Plaintiff”) were deemed served. Plaintiff was
ordered to serve verified responses within 30 days. (Min. Order, 3/21/24.) 
 
On June 6, 2024, in the order for Defendant’s motion to continue trial
and reopen discovery under Code of Civil Procedure section 2024.050, the Court
stated it “would be inclined to reopen discovery to hear any disputes regarding
the responses subject to the Court’s prior orders.” (Min. Order,
6/6/24.)
 
Defendant now moves to compel further responses from Plaintiff to Form
Interrogatories, Set One and Request for Production of Documents, Set One. Plaintiff
opposes. No reply has been filed. 
 
ANALYSIS
 
The
Court’s Eighth Amended Standing Order for Procedures in the Personal Injury Hub
requires counsel to participate in an Informal Discovery Conference (“IDC”)
before the Court will hear any motion to compel further responses to discovery,
and provides that PI Hub Courts may deny or continue any motion if parties fail
to schedule and complete an IDC before the scheduled hearing. While it appears
that Defendant filed an IDC statement with the Court on June 6, 2024, no IDC is
currently scheduled. As a result, no IDC has taken place.
 
CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
 
Therefore, the Court continues the motions to July 22, 2024 and sets
this matter for an informal discovery conference on Monday, July 8, 2024 at
2:30 p.m. in Department 32 of the Spring Street Courthouse. Prior to the IDC, the
parties shall meet and confer by telephone in an attempt to resolve their
issues. The parties shall appear at the IDC prepared to discuss their various
positions. 
 
Defendant is ordered to provide notice of the Court’s orders and file
a proof of service of such.