 Case Number:  22STCV18557    Hearing Date:   July 5, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


July
  5, 2024




CASE NUMBER:


22STCV18557




MOTIONS:  


Motion
  for Stay of Proceedings  




MOVING PARTY:


Plaintiff The Complete Logistics Company 




OPPOSING PARTY:


Defendant
  Super Center Concepts, Inc. 



 
 
BACKGROUND
 
This is a subrogation action brought by Plaintiff The Complete
Logistics Company (“Plaintiff”) to recover workers’ compensation benefits paid
to its employee, Lydia Gomez (“Gomez”), after she was allegedly injured while
making a delivery at a Super Center Concepts, Inc. grocery store. 
 
Plaintiff now moves to stay the proceedings, under the Court’s
inherent authority, because Gomez is continuing treatment for her injuries and
her workers’ compensation claim is still pending. Therefore, Plaintiff would
like to stay this action until the conclusion of the workers’ compensation
claim so it may know the amount of damages at issue. Defendant Super Center
Concepts, Inc. (“Defendant”) opposes. No reply has been filed. 
 
ANALYSIS
 
A court generally has inherent power, in its discretion, to stay
proceedings when such a stay will accommodate the ends of justice. (People
v. Bell (1984) 159 Cal.App.3d 323, 329.) 
 
Here, Plaintiff contends that (besides the workers’ compensation
claim) there is one related case in this matter that has not been deemed
“related” by the Court: 22STCV20833, currently pending in department 29. That
case was brought by Gomez for her injuries underlying this subrogation action. Both
parties contend that the Notices of Related Cases have not been ruled on. 
 
Plaintiff primarily argues a stay is required until Gomez’s claim is
resolved, and the amount of damages is determined. At the time this motion was
filed, the trial was set for July 29, 2024. However, as Defendant observes in
opposition, since filing this motion, trial has been continued, pursuant to
stipulation, to February 13, 2025. 
 
The primary basis for the stay was to prevent Plaintiff from
proceeding to trial without updated discovery on the total amount of workers’
compensation benefits it would pay. However, seeing as trial has been continued
to February 2025, the Court finds little prejudice to Plaintiff if the stay is
denied. As Defendant argues, without the stay, the parties will be able to
continue discovery and proceed with the case. Plaintiff also has not filed a
reply asserting that it still seeks a stay. 
 
Therefore, the Court exercises its discretion to deny the motion to
stay proceedings. 
 
 
CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
 
Therefore, the motion to stay proceedings is DENIED. 
 
Plaintiff shall provide notice of the Court’s ruling and file a proof
of service of such. 
 