 Case Number:  22STCV02004    Hearing Date:   July 5, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


July
  5, 2024




CASE NUMBER:


22STCV02004




MOTIONS:  


Motion
  for Summary Judgment, or Alternatively, Summary Adjudication




MOVING PARTY:


Defendant County of Los Angeles  




OPPOSING PARTY:


Plaintiff
  Nina Renee Richardson  



 
MOVING PAPERS
 
1.     Notice of Motion and Motion for Summary
Judgment, or in the Alternative, Summary Adjudication; Memorandum of Points and Authorities
2.     Separate Statement of Undisputed Material Facts[1]
3.     Declaration of Nicole G. Ortega  
4.     Appendix of Evidence in Support 
 
OPPOSITION PAPERS
 
1.     Plaintiff’s Opposition
2.     Plaintiff’s Response to Defendant’s Separate
Statement of Undisputed Material Facts, and Plaintiff’s Additional Material
Facts
3.     Plaintiff’s Evidentiary Objections
4.     Plaintiff’s Request for Judicial Notice 
5.     Plaintiff’s Evidence in Opposition 
6.     Plaintiff’s Notice of Lodging in Support
7.     Plaintiff’s Notice of Errata 
 
REPLY PAPERS
1.     Defendant’s Reply
2.     Reply to Plaintiff’s Response to Separate
Statement of Undisputed Material Facts
3.     Defendant’s Objections to Evidence 
 
BACKGROUND
 
On January 18, 2022, Plaintiff
Nina Renee Richardson (“Plaintiff”) filed a complaint against County of Los
Angeles, City of Whittier, State of California, Jesus Lozoya, and Does 1 to 20.
Plaintiff alleges she was hit by a vehicle driven by Jesus Lozoya (“Lozoya”)
while she was crossing a crosswalk at Colima Road and Dunton Drive. (Complaint
¶ 10.) 
 
Against Moving Defendant County of Los Angeles (“Defendant”),
Plaintiff asserts two causes of action: (1) dangerous condition of public
property under Government Code section 835, and (2) act or omission of employee
of public entity under Government Code section 815.2. 
 
Plaintiff alleges that the intersection where the incident took place
“was so negligently owned, possessed, controlled, designed, repaired,
maintained, built, and inspected so as to allow a dangerous condition to exist
for motorists and pedestrians using the roadway, due to factors including
excessive speed allowed for conditions, lack of adequate controls and warnings,
inadequate markings, significant accident history, visibility obstructions, the
failure to provide street lighting necessary to make the streets safe for
travel due to the presence of the above described peculiar conditions, and
others.” (Complaint ¶ 20.) 
 
Defendant now moves for summary judgment, or alternatively, summary
adjudication, arguing that it owed no duty of care, no dangerous condition
existed, and there is no evidence of a wrongful or negligent act by Defendant’s
employee. Plaintiff opposes and Defendant replies. 
 
LEGAL
STANDARD
 
“A
party may move for summary adjudication as to one or more causes of action
within an action, one or more affirmative defenses, one or more claims for
damages, or one or more issues of duty, if the party contends that the cause of
action has no merit, that there is no affirmative defense to the cause of
action, that there is no merit to an affirmative defense as to any cause of
action, that there is no merit to a claim for damages, as specified in Section
3294 of the Civil Code, or that one or more defendants either owed or did not
owe a duty to the plaintiff or plaintiffs.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd.
(f)(1).) “A motion for summary adjudication shall be granted only if it
completely disposes of a cause of action, an affirmative defense, a claim for damages,
or an issue of duty.” (Id.)  
 
“[T]he party moving for summary judgment bears the burden of persuasion
that there is no triable issue of material fact and that he is entitled to
judgment as a matter of law[.] There is a triable issue of material fact if,
and only if, the evidence would allow a reasonable trier of fact to find the
underlying fact in favor of the party opposing the motion in accordance with
the applicable standard of proof.” (Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co.
(2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 850.) 
 
 “[T]he party moving for summary judgment bears an initial burden of
production to make a prima facie showing of the nonexistence of any triable
issue of material fact; if he carries his burden of production, he causes a
shift, and the opposing party is then subjected to a burden
of production of his own to make a prima facie showing of the existence of a
triable issue of material fact.” (Ibid.; Smith v. Wells Fargo
Bank, N.A. (2005) 135 Cal.App.4th 1463, 1474 [summary judgment standards
held by Aguilar apply to summary adjudication motions].)  Further, in line with Aguilar v. Atlantic
Richfield Co., “[o]n a motion for summary adjudication, the trial court has
no discretion to exercise.  If a triable
issue of material fact exists as to the challenged causes of action, the motion
must be denied. If there is no triable issue of fact, the motion must be
granted.” (Fisherman's Wharf Bay Cruise Corp. v. Superior Court (2003)
114 Cal.App.4th 309, 320.)
 
“On a summary judgment motion, the
court must therefore consider what inferences favoring the opposing party a
factfinder could reasonably draw from the evidence. While viewing the evidence
in this manner, the court must bear in mind that its primary function is to
identify issues rather than to determine issues.  Only when the inferences are indisputable may
the court decide the issues as a matter of law. If the evidence is in conflict,
the factual issues must be resolved by trial.” (Binder v. Aetna Life Ins. Co.
(1999) 75 Cal.App.4th 832, 839 [cleaned up].) 
Further, “the trial court may not weigh the evidence in the manner of a
factfinder to determine whose version is more likely true.  Nor may the trial court grant summary
judgment based on the court's evaluation of credibility.” (Id. at p. 840
[cleaned up]; see also Weiss v. People ex rel. Department of Transportation
(2020) 9 Cal.5th 840, 864 [“Courts deciding motions for summary judgment or
summary adjudication may not weigh the evidence but must instead view it in the
light most favorable to the opposing party and draw all reasonable inferences
in favor of that party”].)        
 
JUDICIAL
NOTICE
 
Pursuant to Plaintiff’s request, the Court takes judicial notice of
the complaint and cross-complaint in this case. (Evid. Code. § 452(d).)
 
EVIDENTIARY
OBJECTIONS
 
The Court declines to rule on Defendant’s evidentiary objections as
they have no effect on the ruling herein, except for Defendant’s objections to the
declaration of Todd Roescher. The Court overrules the objections except to the
extent that Roescher’s opinions state legal conclusions. “…[E]xpert opinions on
whether a condition constitutes a dangerous condition of public property are
not determinative. ‘[T]he fact that a witness can be found to opine that such a
condition constitutes a significant risk and a dangerous condition does not
eliminate this court’s statutory task, pursuant to Government Code section
830.2, of independently evaluating the circumstances.’” (Sun v. City of
Oakland (2008) 166 Cal.App.4th 1177, 1189 [citations omitted].)
 
The Court declines to rule on Plaintiff’s evidentiary objections as
they have no effect on the ruling herein. 
 
DISCUSSION
 
Government Code section 835 states:¿“Except as provided by
statute, a public entity is liable for injury caused by a dangerous condition
of its property if the plaintiff establishes that the property was in a
dangerous condition at the time of the injury, that the injury was proximately
caused by the dangerous condition, that the dangerous condition created a
reasonably foreseeable risk of the kind of injury which was incurred, and
either:¿¿ 
¿ 
(a) A
negligent or wrongful act or omission of an employee of the public entity
within the scope of his employment created the dangerous condition; or¿¿¿ 
¿ 
(b) The
public entity had actual or constructive notice of the dangerous condition
under Section 835.2 a sufficient time prior to the injury to have taken
measures to protect against the dangerous condition.”¿¿¿
 
Government Code section 835 sets out the
exclusive conditions under which a public entity is liable for injuries caused
by a dangerous condition of public property. (Metcalf v. County of San
Joaquin (2008) 42 Cal.4th 1121, 1129, citing Brown v. Poway Unified
School Dist. (1993) 4 Cal.4th 820, 829; see also Zelig v. County of Los
Angeles (2002) 27 Cal.4th 1112.) 
 
“ ‘[A] claim alleging a dangerous
condition may not rely on generalized allegations [citation] but must specify
in what manner the condition constituted a dangerous condition.’ [Citation.] A
plaintiff's allegations, and ultimately the evidence, must establish a physical
deficiency in the property itself. [Citations.] A dangerous condition exists
when public property ‘is physically damaged, deteriorated, or defective in such
a way as to foreseeably endanger those using the property itself,’ or possesses
physical characteristics in its design, location, features or relationship to
its surroundings that endanger users.” (Cerna v. City of Oakland (2008)
161 Cal.App.4th 1340, 1347–48.) 
 
“A public entity may be liable for a
dangerous condition of public property even where the immediate cause of
plaintiff's injury is a third party's negligent or illegal act . . . if some
physical characteristic of the property exposes its users to increased danger
from third party negligence or criminality. [Citation.] But it is insufficient
to show only harmful third party conduct, like the conduct of a motorist.
‘[T]hird party conduct, by itself, unrelated to the condition of the property,
does not constitute a “dangerous condition” for which a public entity may be
held liable.’ [Citation.] There must be a defect in the physical condition of
the property and that defect must have some causal relationship to the third
party conduct that injures the plaintiff. [Citation.] ‘[P]ublic liability lies
under [Government Code] section 835 only when a feature of the public property
has “increased or intensified” the danger to users from third party conduct.’”
(Cerna, supra, 161 Cal.App.4th at 1348.) “When it comes to public
roadways, ‘a public entity is only required to provide roads that are safe for
reasonably foreseeable careful use.’ [Citation.]” (Huerta v. City of Santa
Ana (2019) 39 Cal.App.5th 41, 48 [holding that city owed no duty to light a
crosswalk].) 
 
Generally, a municipality has no duty to
light its streets and will not be liable in damages to someone injured solely
as a result of the lack of lighting. (Huerta, supra, 39
Cal.App.5th at 48.) However, a duty to light may arise if there is “some
peculiar condition rendering lighting necessary in order to make the streets
safe for travel.” (Id. at 49 [internal quotations omitted].) 
 
“A condition is not a dangerous condition
within the meaning of this chapter merely because of the failure to provide
regulatory traffic control signals, stop signs, yield right-of-way signs, or
speed restriction signs, as described by the Vehicle Code, or distinctive
roadway markings as described in Section 21460 of the Vehicle Code.” (Gov. Code
§ 830.4.) “Cases interpreting this statute have held that it provides a shield
against liability only in those situations where the alleged dangerous
condition exists solely as a result of the public entity’s failure to provide a
regulatory traffic device or street marking.” (Washington v. City and County
of San Francisco (1990) 219 Cal.App.3d 1531, 1534.)
 
“Neither a public entity nor a public
employee is liable under this chapter for an injury caused by the failure to
provide traffic or warning signals, signs, markings or devices described in the
Vehicle Code. Nothing in this section exonerates a public entity or public
employee from liability for injury proximately caused by such failure if a
signal, sign, marking or device (other than one described in Section 830.4) was
necessary to warn of a dangerous condition which endangered the safe movement
of traffic and which would not be reasonably apparent to, and would not have
been anticipated by, a person exercising due care.” (Gov. Code § 830.8.)
 
Here, the following is undisputed.
Plaintiff testified that on the night of the incident, she left her house after
9:30 p.m. to go to the minimart. She was walking back home when the incident
took place. (UMF 8.) Plaintiff testified that after looking both
ways at the subject crosswalk, she kept walking through the intersection
because she anticipated that she would be able to cross in time. (UMF 10.)
Plaintiff also testified that she anticipated that Mr. Lozoya would stop. (UMF
13.) At the time of the collision, Mr. Lozoya testified that he had his
headlights on. (UMF 18.) Mr. Lozoya testified that he believes that if there
had been enough light, he would have seen the Plaintiff ahead of time and would
have stopped on time. (UMF 20.) The crosswalk was marked, painted white, and
large enough to fit multiple people at the same time. (UMF 23.) Plaintiff
testified it was a clear night, the roads were not wet, the roadway was dry,
and there were no unusual conditions. (UMF 24.) Mr. Lozoya further testified
that at the time of the accident, he was not texting, talking on his cell
phone, and that there was nothing distracting him. (UMF 26.) 
 
Defendant offers the following
additional facts: 
 
-       
Plaintiff testified that she believed Mr. Lozoya would
see her because she was on the crosswalk and there are posted signs. (UMF 12.) 
-       
Mr. Lozoya also testified that he saw the
Plaintiff when his headlights illuminated her prior to the impact. (UMF 19.) 
 
Defendant contends that Plaintiff’s
allegations, including the excessive speed allowed for conditions, lack
of adequate controls and warnings, inadequate markings, significant accident
history, and visibility obstructions center around the lack of lighting at the
intersection. As Defendant notes in its motion and Plaintiff concedes, there is
generally no duty by a municipality to light a street. (Huerta, supra,
39 Cal.App.5th at 48.) Defendant has met its initial burden to show there was
no dangerous condition of public property. The burden shifts to Plaintiff. 
 
In opposition, Plaintiff provides the
following relevant facts:
 
-       
There is a change in elevation on Colima Avenue.
Between the intersection of Danbrook Drive and Dunton Drive, Colima is close to
level. Between the intersections of Dunton Drive and Hawes Street, Colima is
increasing in slope…. (PUMF 50.)
 
Here, Plaintiff sets forth evidence to
create a triable issue of fact that the physical characteristics of the street created
a substantial risk that a driver using due care while traveling would be unable
to see a pedestrian using due care while crossing.[2] Accordingly, Government
Code section 830.4 does not apply to this allegation.[3]
 
Considering all evidence and reasonable
inferences in the light most favorable to Plaintiff, the Court denies
Defendant’s motion for summary judgment.[4]
 
CONCLUSION AND
ORDER
 
Accordingly, Defendant County of Los Angeles’s Motion for Summary Judgment
is DENIED. 
 
            Defendant shall
provide notice of this ruling and file a proof of service of such.


