 Case Number:  22STCV20626    Hearing Date:   July 5, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court. 

 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


July
  5, 2024




CASE NUMBER:


22STCV20626




MOTIONS:  


(1)
  Compel Responses to Request for Production of Documents 
(2)
  Compel Responses to Form Interrogatories
(3)
  Compel Responses to Special Interrogatories




MOVING PARTY:


Defendant
  DoubleTree by Hilton   




OPPOSING PARTY:


None



 
 
BACKGROUND
 
            Defendant DoubleTree by Hilton (“Defendant”)
moves to compel Plaintiff Andrew Ramirez (“Plaintiff”) to serve verified
responses, without objections, to Request for Production of Documents, Set One,
Special Interrogatories, Set One, and Form Interrogatories, Set One. Defendant
seeks monetary sanctions. Plaintiff opposes. 
 
LEGAL
STANDARD
 
Interrogatories
 
If a party to whom interrogatories are directed fails to serve a
timely response, the propounding party may move for an order compelling
responses. (Code Civ. Proc. § 2030.290 (b).) Failure to timely respond waives
all objections, including privilege and work product, unless “[t]he party has
subsequently served a response that is in substantial compliance” and “[t]he
party’s failure to serve a timely response was the result of mistake,
inadvertence, or excusable neglect.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.290 (a)(1),
(a)(2).) The statute contains no time limit for a motion to compel where no
responses have been served and no meet and confer is required when a party does
not respond to discovery requests. All that need be shown in the moving papers
is that a set of interrogatories was properly served on the opposing party,
that the time to respond has expired, and that no response of any kind has been
served. (Leach v. Superior Court (1980) 111 Cal.App.3d 902, 905-906.) 
 
If a motion to compel responses is filed, the Court shall impose a
monetary sanction against the losing party “unless it finds that the one
subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other
circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.” (Code Civ. Proc., §§
2030.290 (c).) Further, “[t]he court may award sanctions under the Discovery
Act in favor of a party who files a motion to compel discovery, even though no
opposition to the motion was filed, or opposition to the motion was withdrawn,
or the requested discovery was provided to the moving party after the motion
was filed.” (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1348(a).)
 
Requests
for Production
 
Under Code of Civil Procedure Section 2031.300, if a party fails to
serve a timely response to a demand for inspection, the party making the demand
may move for an order compelling response to the demand. (Code Civ. Pro §
2031.300 (b).) The party who fails to serve a timely response to a demand for
inspection waives any objection to the demand unless the court finds that the
party has subsequently served a response that is in substantial compliance or
party’s failure was the result of mistake, inadvertence, or excusable neglect.
(Code Civ. Proc. § 2031.300 (a)(1)- (2).) 
 
Courts shall impose a monetary sanction against any party who
unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel a response to a demand for
inspection unless the party acted with substantial justification or other
circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust. (Code Civ. Proc. §
2031.300 (c).) Further, “[t]he court may award sanctions under the Discovery
Act in favor of a party who files a motion to compel discovery, even though no
opposition to the motion was filed, or opposition to the motion was withdrawn,
or the requested discovery was provided to the moving party after the motion
was filed.” (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1348(a).)
 
 
DISCUSSION
 
Here, Defendant served Request for Production of Documents, Set One,
Special Interrogatories, Set One, and Form Interrogatories, Set One on Plaintiff
on July 13, 2023. (Chun Decl. ¶ 2, Exh. A.) Defendant requested responses
multiple times throughout 2023. On February 29, 2024, Defendant emailed
Plaintiff’s counsel seeking responses without objections by March 4, 2024. (Id.
¶ 8.) Since then, no responses have been served. (Id. ¶ 9.) 
 
In opposition, Plaintiff has filed what appears to be his responses to
the discovery at issue in this motion; no verifications are attached to the
responses. However, Defendant has not filed a reply, and thus has not stated
whether the responses were eventually verified. Accordingly, the motions to
compel are granted.   
 
Defendant requests
$1,210 in monetary sanctions for each of the three motions, against Plaintiff
and counsel of record, based on an hourly rate of $230 and the $60 filing fee. (Chun
Decl. ¶ 10.) The Court finds sanctions are warranted because Plaintiff has
failed to respond without objections. However, the amount requested is
excessive given the type of motion, the lack of reply, and the fact counsel can
appear at the hearing remotely. Therefore, the Court awards sanctions in
the total amount of $405 (1.5 hour of attorney time and the filing fee, for the
Special Interrogatories motion). 
             
 
CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
 
Accordingly, Defendant DoubleTree by Hilton’s Motions to Compel Request
for Production of Documents, Set One and Form and Special Interrogatories, Set
One are GRANTED. Plaintiff Andrew Ramirez shall provide verified responses,
without objection, within 20 days.
 
The Court further GRANTS Defendant’s request for monetary sanctions
against Plaintiff and Plaintiff’s counsel, jointly and severally, in the
reduced amount of $405. Said monetary sanctions are to be paid to
counsel for Defendant within 30 days of the date of this order.
 
Defendant shall
provide notice of the Court’s order and file a proof of service of such. 