 Case Number:  22STCV28122    Hearing Date:   April 2, 2024    Dept:  27 Hon. Lee S. Arian
Department 27
Tentative
Ruling
¿ 
Hearing Date:           4/2/2024 at 1:30 p.m.
Case No./Name.:      22STCV28122 MICHAEL WILLIAM WILSON vs CLAYTON
DAMIAN FISCHER
Motion Name:                MOTION TO COMPEL FURTHER RESPONSES TO REQUESTS FOR PRODUCTION, SET
FIVE, AND FOR SANCTIONS
Moving Party:           Plaintiff
Responding Party:    Defendant Southwark Metal Manufacturing
Notice:                     Sufficient
¿¿¿ 
Ruling:                     MOTION TO COMPEL FURTHER RESPONSES IS
CONTINUED
 
On January 30, 2024, Plaintiff filed the
original motion to compel further responses to Defendant’s responses to
Plaintiff's Requests for Production, Set Five. On March 7, 2024, the Court
denied the motion without prejudice for failing to specify when the responses
were provided and whether the motion was filed within the 45-day deadline.
Additionally, the Court denied the original motion on the basis that Plaintiff
did not meet and confer sufficiently before filing the motion and ordered the
parties to meet and confer in good faith by March 14, 2024. On the same day the
original motion was heard, March 7, 2024, Plaintiff filed a renewed motion to
compel further without meeting and conferring first. On March 18, 2024,
Plaintiff submitted a declaration indicating that a meet and confer had occurred.
The next day, Defendant filed an opposition, arguing that the meet and confer
process was insufficient and bad faith use of discovery.
On March 7, 2024, the Court ordered the
Parties, including Plaintiff, to meet and confer in good faith by March 14,
2024. Contrary to this directive, Plaintiff filed a renewed motion after the
hearing without first engaging in the required meet and confer process with
Defendant. (Borisov Decl., ¶ 6.) Although Plaintiff filed a meet and confer
declaration on March 18, 2024, this occurred after the Court-ordered date of
March 14, 2024, and after the filing of the renewed motion. The purpose of the
meet and confer requirement is to resolve discovery disputes reasonably and in
good faith, thereby minimizing unnecessary judicial intervention. The sequence
of events, with Plaintiff filing the renewed motion immediately following the
initial hearing and preceding any genuine meet and confer efforts, suggests
that the meet and confer was not conducted in good faith. Instead, it appeared
as a tactical maneuver aimed at pressuring the opposing party into compliance
with a "take it or leave it" strategy, where if Defendant complied
with Plaintiff's demands, the motion would be taken off calendar. The Court
does not find that Plaintiff has met and conferred reasonably or in good faith.
Further, Personal Injury Hub Courts will not
entertain Motions to Compel Further Discovery Responses until the parties have
participated in an Informal Discovery Conference (IDC). (Eighth Amended
Standing Order For Procedures In The Personal Injury Hub Court at p. 7.) The
Court may either deny or continue a Motion to Compel Further Responses to
discovery if the parties do not schedule and complete an IDC prior to the
hearing date set for a Motion to Compel Further Responses to Discovery. (Id.)
The parties are required to participate in an
Informal Discovery Conference (IDC) to attempt to resolve any outstanding
discovery disputes before a motion to compel further can be heard. The Parties
are ORDERED to attend an IDC set for _______, 2024, and the current motion will be continued to _______, 2024.
 
The Court notes that it is concerned about
Plaintiff’s discovery conduct in this case. 
Defendant Southwark has stated that Plaintiff has served more than 500
Requests for Admissions and more than 500 Requests for Production of
Documents.  This case is not a complex
matter warranting such extensive discovery, albeit the Court understands that
Plaintiff is seeking to obtain sufficient information to support a punitive
damages claim.  That effort needs to be undertaken
in a reasonable manner that does not effectively weaponize the discovery
process.  While the Court is not ready to
deem the effort inappropriate at this point, Plaintiff is hereby put on notice
that the Court is sufficiently concerned as to note it now.  Prior to the IDC, the parties are to meet and
confer and determine if they can agree upon a reasonable discovery plan.
 
PLEASE TAKE NOTICE:¿¿¿¿¿ 
¿¿ 
If a party intends to submit on this tentative
ruling,¿the party must send an email to the court at¿sscdept27@lacourt.org¿with the Subject line “SUBMIT” followed by the
case number.¿ The body of the email must include the hearing date and time,
counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the party submitting.¿¿¿ 
 
Unless¿all¿parties submit by email to this tentative
ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or in person
for oral argument.¿ You should assume that others may appear at the hearing to argue.
 
If the parties neither submit nor appear at
hearing, the Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the tentative
ruling as the order of the Court.¿ After the Court has issued a tentative
ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion without
leave.
 