 Case Number:  22STCV12555    Hearing Date:   April 2, 2024    Dept:  27 Complaint:
4/14/22
Hon. Lee S.
Arian
Department 27
Tentative Ruling 
 
Hearing
Date:                4/2/2024
at 1:30 p.m.
Case
No./Name.:         22STCV12555
RAMONA RECINOS, et al. vs CUSTOM GOODS LLC
Motion
Name:                Motion
for Determination of Good Faith Settlement
Minor’s Compromise
Moving
Party:                 Plaintiffs
Responding
Party:      Unopposed
Notice:                                Sufficient
 
Ruling:                              MOTION
FOR DETERMINATION OF GOOD FAITH SETTLEMENT IS GRANTED.
 
PETITION FOR MINOR’S COMPROMISE IS
GRANTED.
 
DETERMINATION OF
GOOD FAITH SETTLEMENT
 
Background
 
On
April 14, 2022, Plaintiffs filed the present complaint for the wrongful death
of Decedent Edwin Recinos. Plaintiffs allege that Defendant Jaime Chicas
accidentally pinned Decedent between two trailers while operating a tractor
under the employment of Custom Goods LLC, on a site overseen and leased by
Premier Drayage from Radford Alexander Corporation, the owner of the property.
On November 28, 2022, Defendant Custom Goods LLC was dismissed from the action.
Plaintiffs entered into a settlement agreement with Defendants Chicas and
Premier Drayage for one million dollars and now move the Court for
determination of good faith settlement. The motion is unopposed.
 
Legal
Standard
 
CCP
section 877.6(a)(1) provides that “[a]ny party to an action wherein it is
alleged that two or more parties are joint tortfeasors or co-obligors on a
contract debt shall be entitled to a hearing on the issue of the good faith of
a settlement entered into by the plaintiff . . . and one or more alleged
tortfeasors or co-obligors . . . .”  (Code. Civ. Proc., §
877.6(a)(1).)  “A determination by the court that the settlement was made
in good faith shall bar any other joint tortfeasor or co-obligor from any
further claims against the settling tortfeasor or co-obligor for equitable
comparative contribution, or partial or comparative indemnity, based on
comparative negligence or comparative fault.”  (Id., §
877.6(c).)  Although a determination that a settlement was in good faith
does not discharge any other party from liability, “it shall reduce the claims
against the others in the amount stipulated” by the settlement.  (Id.,
§ 877(a).)
 
Factors
to consider in determining if a settlement was made in good faith include “a
rough approximation of plaintiffs’ total recovery and the settlor’s
proportionate liability, the amount paid in settlement, the allocation of
settlement proceeds among plaintiffs, and a recognition that a settlor should
pay less in settlement than he would if he were found liable after a
trial.”  (Tech-Bilt, Inc. v. Woodward-Clyde & Associates (1985)
38 Cal.3d 488, 499.)  “Other relevant considerations include the financial
conditions and insurance policy limits of settling defendants, as well as the
existence of collusion, fraud, or tortious conduct aimed to injure the
interests of nonsettling defendants.”  (Id.)
 
The
evaluation of whether a settlement was made in good faith is required to “be
made on the basis of information available at the time of settlement.”  (Tech-Bilt,
Inc. v. Woodward-Clyde & Associates (1985) 38 Cal.3d 488, 499.) 
“[A] court not only looks at the alleged tortfeasor’s potential liability to
the plaintiff, but it must also consider the culpability of the tortfeasor
vis-à-vis other parties alleged to be responsible for the same injury.”  (TSI
Seismic Tenant Space, Inc. v. Superior Court (2007) 149 Cal.App.4th 159,
166.)  “Potential liability for indemnity to a nonsettling defendant is an
important consideration for the trial court in determining whether to approve a
settlement by an alleged tortfeasor.”  (Id.)
 
“The
party asserting the lack of good faith shall have the burden of proof on that
issue.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 877.6(d).)  The party asserting the lack
of good faith can establish that the proposed settlement was not a settlement
made in good faith by showing the settlement is so far “out of the ballpark” in
relation to the Tech-Bilt factors as to be inconsistent with the
equitable objectives of the statute.  (Tech-Bilt, Inc., supra, 38
Cal.3d at 499-500.)
 
Unopposed
Motion 
 
An
unopposed motion for determination of good faith of settlement need not contain
a full and complete discussion of the Tech-Bilt factors (Tech-Bilt,
Inc. v. Woodward-Clyde & Associates (1985) 38 Cal.3d 488) by
declaration or affidavit; rather, a bare bones motion setting forth the grounds
of good faith and a declaration containing a brief background of the case is
sufficient.  (City of Grand Terrace v. Superior Court (1987) 192
Cal.App.3d 1251, 1261.)
 
Analysis
and Conclusion
 
The present motion is unopposed, and
there are no other filings objecting to the settlement at issue. The motion addressed
all the Tech-Bilt factors and demonstrated that the settlement agreement
for one million dollars was reached in good faith. The moving party has made a
sufficient showing. Thus, Settling Defendants’ Motion for Determination of Good
Faith Settlement is GRANTED.

PETITION TO APPROVE MINOR’S COMPROMISE

                The Court excuses the personal appearance of Claimant and
the guardian ad litem. Counsel may appear by telephone or video conference
call.
 
In the proposed settlement, the gross settlement amount
for the minor is $300,000.00. $75,000.00 will be used for attorneys’ fees, and
$6,064.00 will be used for costs.  The net balance of $218,936.00 will be
awarded to Claimant Edwin Recinos, Jr, a minor.
 
The
Court reviewed the petition and the order and finds the settlement fair and
reasonable. The Court also finds the attorney’s fees fair and reasonable.
Based on the foregoing, the petition filed on 3/25/24 is hereby GRANTED.
 
The Court sets an Order to Show Cause Re:
Compliance on ____________________
IN DEPARTMENT SS-27 AT 8:30 AM.
Moving
party is ordered to give notice.
 
PLEASE TAKE NOTICE:
 
If a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the court at sscdept27@lacourt.org with the Subject line “SUBMIT” followed
by the case number.  The body of the email must include the hearing date
and time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the party
submitting.
 
Unless all parties submit by email
to this tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely
(encouraged) or in person for oral argument.  You should assume that
others may appear at the hearing to argue.
 
If the parties neither submit nor appear at hearing, the
Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the tentative ruling as the
order of the Court.  After the Court has issued a tentative ruling, the
Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion without leave.