 Case Number:  23PSCV00368    Hearing Date:   January 17, 2024    Dept:  K Plaintiff John Roe’s
Motion for an Order Granting Preference in Setting Case for Trial is GRANTED. 
Background   
Plaintiff John Roe, a minor, by and through his
guardian ad litem, J.R. (“Plaintiff”) alleges as follows:
Plaintiff
was sexually assaulted and battered on July 26, 2022 by another minor while at
daycare.
On February 7, 2023,
Plaintiff filed a complaint, asserting a cause of action against Kindercare
Learning Centers LLC, Margue Zarate (together, “Defendants”) and Does 1-100
for:
1.                 
Negligence
A Final Status
Conference is set for February 25, 2025. Trial is set for March 11, 2025.
Legal
Standard
“A civil action to recover damages for wrongful death or
personal injury shall be entitled to preference upon the motion of any
party to the action who is under 14 years of age unless the court finds that
the party does not have a substantial interest in the case as a whole. . .”
(Code Civ. Proc., § 36, subd. (b) [emphasis added].)
“Upon the granting of a motion for preference pursuant to
subdivision (b), a party in an action based upon a health provider’s alleged
professional negligence, as defined in Section 364, shall receive a trial date
not sooner than six months and not later than nine months from the date that
the motion is granted.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 36, subd. (g).)
Discussion
Plaintiff moves the
court, per Code of Civil Procedure § 36, subdivision (b), for a preferential
trial date, on the basis that he is under the age of 14 and has a substantial
interest in the case.
Priority pursuant to
subdivision (b) is mandatory. (Peters v. Superior Court (1989) 212
Cal.App.3d 218, 224 [“[T]he Legislature made unmistakably clear that motions for
preference under subdivisions (d) and (e) were not mandatory. Equally clear, by
the omission of the phrase ‘in its discretion’ and by the use of ‘shall’
instead of ‘may,’ is that subdivisions (a) and (b) were intended to be
mandatory”]. The court, then, does not have discretion to deny the motion on
the basis of waiver, as urged by Defendants.
There is no meaningful
dispute that petitioner is under 14 years of age. Plaintiff’s counsel has
provided the court and opposing counsel with a copy of Plaintiff’s birth
certificate. While Defendants argue that Plaintiff’s counsel lacks personal
knowledge to lay foundation for same, they have not filed any objections and acknowledge
that Plaintiff specifically alleged in the complaint that he “was a minor (10
years old)” on July 26, 2022 and that Plaintiff made reference to his minor
status in his Case Management Statement. (Complaint, ¶ 8; Russell Decl., ¶ 3,
Exh. B). It is undisputed that
Plaintiff has a substantial interest in the case as the injured party.
Finally, Plaintiff’s
motion reflects compliance with subdivision (c)(1), in that it is supported by
a declaration from counsel that “all essential parties have been served with
process or have appeared.”
Plaintiff’s motion
is granted.