  Case Number:  20PSCV00334    Hearing Date:   January 17, 2024    Dept:  K Defendant Tracy Lenhart’s Motion for Summary Judgment or,
in the Alternative, Summary Adjudication is DENIED in full.
Background   
Plaintiff Jennifer Buckley, Trustee
of the Frank Raymond Restivo Revocable Trust Dated May 2010 (“Plaintiff”)
alleges as follows:
Frank Restivo (“Frank”),
Plaintiff’s father, became good friends with Defendants Leroy Lenhart (“Leroy”)
and Tracy Lenhart (“Tracy”), both dba Covina Coin (together, “the Lenharts”).
Over the course of 11 years, and pursuant to a verbal agreement, Frank loaned
the Lenharts over $800,000.00. Frank died on July 19, 2019. The Lenharts still
owed Frank $537,720.00 as of the date of Frank’s death, including $277,115.00
remaining in uncashed checks.
On April 22, 2022, Plaintiff
dismissed Leroy, with prejudice.
On October 30, 2023, Plaintiff filed
a First Amended Complaint, asserting causes of action against the Lenharts and
Does 1-20 for:
1.                 
Breach of Oral Contract
2.                 
Open Book Account
3.                 
Account Stated
4.                 
Promissory Estoppel
5.                 
Unjust Enrichment 
6.                 
Breach of Written Contract (Negotiable Instruments)
The Final Status Conference is set for January 23, 2024.
Trial is set for February 6, 2024
Legal Standard
The purpose of a motion for summary judgment or summary
adjudication “is to provide courts with a mechanism to cut through the parties’
pleadings in order to determine whether, despite their allegations, trial is in
fact necessary to resolve their dispute.” (Aguilar
v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 843.) “Code of Civil
Procedure section 437c, subdivision (c), requires
the trial judge to grant summary judgment if all the evidence submitted, and
‘all inferences reasonably deducible from the evidence’ and uncontradicted by
other inferences or evidence, show that there is no triable issue as to any
material fact and that the moving party is entitled to a judgment as a matter
of law.” (Adler v. Manor Healthcare Corp.
(1992) 7 Cal.App.4th 1110, 1119 [emphasis omitted].)
“On a motion for summary judgment, the initial burden is
always on the moving party to make a prima facie showing that there are no
triable issues of material fact.” (Scalf
v. D.B. Log Homes, Inc. (2005) 128 Cal.App.4th 1510, 1519.) A defendant
moving for summary judgment or summary adjudication “has met his or her burden
of showing that a cause of action has no merit if the party has shown that one
or more elements of the cause of action . . . cannot be established, or that
there is a complete defense to the cause of action.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c,
subd. (p)(2).) “Once the defendant . . . has met that burden, the burden shifts
to the plaintiff . . . to show that a triable issue of one or more material
facts exists as to the cause of action or a defense thereto.” (Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 437, subd. (p)(2).) “If the plaintiff cannot do so, summary judgment should
be granted.” (Avivi v. Centro Medico
Urgente Medical Center (2008) 159 Cal.App.4th 463, 467.)
“When deciding whether to grant summary judgment, the court
must consider all of the evidence set forth in the papers (except evidence to
which the court has sustained an objection), as well as all reasonable
inferences that may be drawn from that evidence, in the light most favorable to
the party opposing summary judgment.” (Id.
at 467; Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (c).)
Discussion
Tracy moves the court for summary judgment in her favor and
against Plaintiff; in the alternative, Tracy seeks summary adjudication of the
following issues:
Issue #1: Plaintiff’s first cause of action (i.e.,
for Breach of Oral Contract) fails, because Plaintiff cannot point to any
admissible evidence establishing an oral agreement or any other elements of an
oral contract, such as mutual assent, breach, causation or damages. Plaintiff’s
claim is also barred by the Statute of Frauds and statute of limitations.
Issue #2: Plaintiff’s second cause of action (i.e.,
for Open Book Account) fails, because Plaintiff cannot point to any admissible
evidence establishing an agreement for an open book account. Plaintiff’s claim
is also barred by the Statute of Frauds and statute of limitations.
Issue #3: Plaintiff’s third cause of action (i.e.,
for Account Stated) fails, because Plaintiff cannot point to any admissible
evidence establishing that Plaintiff and Tracy agreed on a final amount due.
Plaintiff’s claim is also barred by the Statute of Frauds and statute of
limitations.
Issue #4: Plaintiff’s fourth cause of action (i.e.,
for Promissory Estoppel) fails, because Plaintiff cannot point to any
admissible evidence establishing that Plaintiff made any representations, that
there was reliance and harm. Plaintiff’s claim is also barred by the Statute of
Frauds and statute of limitations. 
Issue #5: Plaintiff’s fifth
cause of action (i.e., for Unjust Enrichment) fails, because Plaintiff cannot
point to any admissible evidence establishing that Tracy benefitted at the
expense of Plaintiff and that it would be unjustifiable retention. Plaintiff’s
claim is also barred by the Statute of Frauds and statute of limitations.

Issue #6: Plaintiff’s sixth cause of action (i.e.,
for Breach of Written Contract) fails, because Plaintiff cannot point to any
admissible evidence establishing that Tracy entered into an agreement or that
the Commercial Code subsumes contract law and imposes contract law on checks in
that checks are not promises; breach, causation or damages. Plaintiff’s claim
is also barred by the Statute of Frauds and statute of limitations.
Operative Pleading
At the outset, the court notes that
on October 11, 2023, a “Stipulation [and Order] for Leave to File First Amended
Complaint and Attendant Discovery” was entered. The instant motion was filed on
October 24, 2023. Plaintiff’s FAC was not filed until October 30, 2023. “Because
there is but one complaint in a civil action, the filing of an amended
complaint moots a motion directed to a prior complaint.” (State Compensation
Ins. Fund v. Superior Court (2010) 184 Cal.App.4th 1124, 1131). However, although
this instant motion was filed when the original complaint was the operative
pleading and before the FAC was filed, the instant motion contemplated the
filing of the FAC and addressed Plaintiff’s cause of action for “Breach of
Written Contract (Negotiable Instruments)” which was added via the FAC.
Procedural Deficiencies
Tracy’s alternate request for summary adjudication
is deficient. Code of Civil Procedure § 437, subdivision (f)(1) states that
“[a] party may move for summary adjudication as to one or more causes of
action within an action, one or more affirmative defenses, one or more
claims for damages, or one or more issues of duty, if the party contends that
the cause of action has no merit, that there is no affirmative defense to
the cause of action, that there is no merit to an affirmative defense as to any
cause of action, that there is no merit to a claim for damages, as
specified in Section 3294 of the Civil Code, or that one or more defendants
either owed or did not owe a duty to the plaintiff or plaintiffs. A motion for
summary adjudication shall be granted only if it completely disposes of a cause
of action, an affirmative defense, a claim for damages, or an issue of duty.” (Emphasis
added).
California Rules of Court (“CRC”) Rule 3.1350, subdivision
(b) provides that “[i]f summary adjudication is sought, . . . , the specific
cause of action, affirmative defense, claims for damages, or issues of duty
must be stated specifically in the notice of motion and be repeated,
verbatim, in the separate statement of undisputed material facts.” (Emphasis
added). Subdivision (d) provides that “[t]he separate Statement of Undisputed
Material Facts in support of a motion must separately identify: (A) Each
cause of action, claim for damages, issue of duty, or affirmative
defense that is the subject of the motion; and (B) Each
supporting material fact claimed to be without dispute with respect to
the cause of action, claim for damages, issue of duty, or affirmative
defense that is the subject of the motion.” (Emphasis added). Tracy improperly seeks
summary adjudication of specific causes of action and affirmative defenses
within the same framed “issue” (i.e., for instance, Issue #1 seeks summary
adjudication of the first cause of action for Breach of Oral Contract and
of the affirmative defenses of Statute of Frauds and statute of limitations). Tracy’s
separate statement, moreover, fails to address each of the causes of action and
affirmative defenses separately; in fact, it does not appear that the statute
of frauds and/or statute of limitations are referenced whatsoever therein. The
court will treat the instant motion as one for summary judgment only.
Further, Plaintiff’s moving separate statement
fails to comply with Code of Civil Procedure § 437c, subdivision (b)(1) (the
separate statement must set forth “plainly and concisely all material facts
that the moving party contends are undisputed”). (See Reeves v. Safeway
Stores, Inc. (2004) 121 Cal.App.4th 95, 105-106 [“[D]efendant asserts
‘undisputed facts’ in terms not of relevant events but of what a witness
has said about events. . . It seems indisputably true that Brian Sparks
so testified in deposition. . . [b]ut what Sparks. . . might have said in
deposition is not, as such, a ‘material fact.’ It is of interest only as evidence
of a material fact, e.g., that plaintiff made a damaging admission about
his confrontation with Juarez. . .”].)
Plaintiff’s “Response to Defendant’s
Separate Statement of Facts” and “Defendant’s Response to Plaintiff’s Separate
Statement of Additional Material Facts in Dispute” both impermissibly include
evidentiary objections. “[A] separate statement is not evidence; it refers to evidence submitted in support of or
opposition to a summary judgment motion. (Jackson v. County of Los
Angeles (1997) 60 Cal.App.4th 171, 178, fn. 4 [emphasis theirs].) The
parties’ evidentiary
objections contained therein are summarily overruled on this basis.
Further, Tracy’s moving papers reflect
non-compliance with CRC Rule 3.1116(c) (i.e., “[t]he relevant portion of any
testimony in the deposition must be marked in a manner that calls attention to
the testimony”).
Evidentiary Objections
The court declines to rule on
Defendant’s “Objections to Evidence[, etc].”  as unnecessary to the disposition of the
motion. (See Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subdivision (q).)
Merits
First, the court notes that Tracy’s
motion repeatedly cites to unpublished/noncitable opinions (i.e., Setareh v.
Elyaszaseh, 2020 WL 3467840; Rolfe v. Bohannon, 2002 WL 31341627;
and Sweringer v. Humenik, 2016 WL 1601857 and Mejia v. Bank of
America, N.A., 2016 WL 1752958). CRC Rule 8.1115, subdivision (a) provides
that “[e]xcept as provided in (b)[1], an opinion
of a
California Court of Appeal or superior court appellate division that is not
certified for publication or ordered published must not be cited or relied on
by a court or a party in any other action.” The court admonishes counsel for
Tracy and declines to consider same.
On October 30, 2023, Plaintiff filed
a FAC against Tracy, Leroy[2] (together,
the “Lenharts”) and Does 1-20 for Breach of Oral Contract, Open Book Account,
Account Stated, Promissory Estoppel, Unjust Enrichment and Breach of Written
Contract (Negotiable Instruments).
Plaintiff alleged, in relevant part,
as follows:
Plaintiff became the
successor trustee of her father, Frank Restivo’s (“Frank”) trust upon his July
19, 2019 death and is the sole successor trustee. (FAC, ¶ 1). The Lenharts are
doing business as Covina Coin located in Covina, California. (Id., ¶ 2).
Frank and the Lenharts met in approximately 2008 and became good friends. (Id.,
¶ 7). Having an interest in rare coins, Frank would often visit the Lenharts at
their coin shop in Covina to chat with them and discuss the coins in stock. (Id.)
The Lenharts came to know that Frank willingly lent money to friends in need,
particularly to help keep their businesses running. (Id., ¶ 8). 
 
On or about October
2007, the Lenharts approached Frank and asked that Frank lend them money for
personal and business reasons. (Id., ¶ 9). Frank agreed and lent the
Lenharts $60,000.00 on October 15, 2007. (Id.) The Lenharts verbally
agreed to begin repaying Frank on a monthly basis as soon as possible, but no
later than six years after the funds had been lent. (Id.)
 
Frank ultimately lent
the Lenharts approximately $812,000.00 between October 2007 and November 2018.
(Id., ¶ 10). At some point, Frank began maintaining a handwritten ledger
of the amounts lent to the Lenharts and the amounts that had been paid. (Id.)
The Lenharts did not begin repaying any amounts until August 15, 2012, when
they repaid $2,000.00. (Id.) As of November 13, 2018, Frank was still
owed $535,720.00. (Id.) The Lenharts repeatedly verbally agreed to repay
the loans on a monthly basis and in full when they were able to do so. (Id.,
¶ 11). In about 2016, the Lenharts started writing and signing post-dated
checks to Frank, which Frank then held and cashed on a weekly or monthly basis.
(Id.) 
 
Starting in 2017 the
Lenharts often did not have sufficient funds to pay the checks they had
written, so Frank ended up holding dated checks for a long period of time
before cashing them. (Id.) In approximately 2018, Frank went to the bank
to deposit a check Leroy had signed and the bank indicated the checks were
starting to be too old and would soon be stale dated. (Id., ¶ 12). As a
result, the Lenharts began writing and signing checks and omitting the date so
Frank could fill in the date when the check was going to be negotiated. (Id.)
On November 9, 2018, Frank wrote his last check to Covina Coin for a further
loan, in the amount of $9,000.00. (Id., ¶ 15). Later in November 2018, a
check from the Lenharts bounced for the first time; that month, the Lenharts
stopped making repayments to Frank. (Id.) Frank did not deposit any
further checks after November 2018 because the Lenharts had insufficient funds
in their account. (Id.) After the first check bounced in November 2018,
Frank spoke with his children, including Plaintiff, about the loans to the
Lenharts and Covina Coin and advised them, inter alia, that the Lenharts still
owed him close to $600,000.00. (Id., ¶ 16). After Frank’s death,
Plaintiff located Frank’s accounting ledger, as well as the stack of uncashed
checks from the Lenharts. (Id., ¶ 17). On December 19, 2019, Plaintiff’s
counsel sent a demand for repayment to Leroy and proposed that Plaintiff begin
negotiating the uncashed signed checks which totaled $277,115.00. (Id.,
¶ 18). Leroy disputed the amount owed. (Id., ¶ 19).
The elements of a breach of contract cause of
action are the “(1) existence of the contract; (2) plaintiff's performance or
excuse for nonperformance; (3) defendant's breach; and (4) damages to plaintiff
as a result of the breach.” (Aton Center, Inc. v. United Healthcare Ins. Co.
(2023) 93 Cal.App.5th 1214, 1230.) The elements of a book account include: 1) a
detailed statement which constitutes the principal record of one or more
transactions between a debtor and a creditor; 2) that arises out of a contract
or some fiduciary relation; 3) that shows the debts and credits against whom
and in favor of whom; 4) that is entered in the regular course of business; 6) that
is kept in a reasonably permanent form or manner; and 7) that is in a bound
book or on a sheet or sheets fastened in a book or to backing but detachable
therefrom or on a card or cards of a permanent character or is kept in any
other reasonably permanent form and manner. (Code Civ. Proc., § 337a).
"The essential elements of an account stated are:
(1) previous transactions between the parties establishing the relationship of
debtor and creditor; (2) an agreement between the parties, express or implied,
on the amount due from the debtor to the creditor; (3) a promise by the debtor,
express or implied, to pay the amount due.” (Zinn v. Fred R. Bright Co.
(1969) 271 Cal.App.2d 597, 600). “The elements of a promissory estoppel claim
are (1) a promise clear and unambiguous in its terms; (2) reliance by the party
to whom the promise is made; (3)[the] reliance must be both reasonable and
foreseeable; and (4) the party asserting the estoppel must be injured by his
reliance.” (Aceves v. U.S. Bank, N.A. (2011) 192 Cal.App.4th 218, 225
[citation and internal quotations omitted].) Finally, unjust enrichment is a
“general principle, underlying various legal doctrines and remedies,” and is
“synonymous with restitution.” (Melchior v. New Line Productions, Inc.
(2003) 106 Cal.App.4th 779, 793 [citation and internal quotations omitted].)
Tracy has proffered the following
evidence in support of her motion for summary judgment:
Leroy died on April 13,
2021. (Defendants’ Undisputed Material Fact [“DUMF”] No. 1). Plaintiff knows of
at least 4-5 individuals to whom Frank extended credit. (DUMF No. 2). From
October 2007-November 2018, the period during which Plaintiff alleges Frank
extended credited [sic], “Covina Coin” was a fictious name (‘DBA’) solely
registered under Leroy Lenhart. (DUMF No. 3). No other person other than Frank
was involved in keeping the handwritten ledger. (DUMF No. 4). Plaintiff does
not know how often the handwritten ledger was updated. (DUMF No. 5). Plaintiff
does not know when the handwritten ledger was last updated. (DUMF No. 6).
Plaintiff admits that Plaintiff has no written agreements relating to money
loaned to Defendant (or Leroy). (DUMF No. 7). Plaintiff admits that she does
not know whether the undated checks in Frank’s possession at the time of his
death were to replace dated checks. (DUMF No. 8). Plaintiff admits that Frank
never told her that Tracy agreed to repay him moneys loaned. (DUMF No. 9). The
sole reason Plaintiff believes that the checks in Frank Restivo’s possession at
the time of his death related to a loan was because Frank Restivo allegedly
told her that. (DUMF No. 10). 
The foregoing material facts
proffered by Tracy are insufficient to shift Tracy’s moving burden, inasmuch as
they do not show that one or more elements of each of Plaintiff’s causes of
action cannot be established or that there is a complete defense to the causes
of action.
The motion is denied in full.  


