 Case Number:  22STCV10763    Hearing Date:   December 11, 2024    Dept:  28 Having
considered the moving, opposition, and reply papers, the Court rules as
follows.  
BACKGROUND 
On
March 29, 2022, Plaintiff Keily Almendares (“Plaintiff”) filed this action
against Defendants Scott Calder Warren (“Warren”), Linda Calder (“Calder”), and
Does 1-50 for negligence, negligence per se, negligent entrustment, and
respondeat superior. 
On
October 25, 2022, Warren and Calder (“Defendants”) filed an answer.  On January 26, 2024, Defendants filed an
amended answer. 
On
October 24, 2024, Defendants filed and electronically served a motion for
summary judgment.  The motion was set for
hearing on April 23, 2025. 
On
October 29, 2024, Defendants filed a motion to specially set/advance the
hearing of their motion for summary judgment or to continue the trial.  The motion was set for hearing on December
11, 2024.  On November 1, 2024,
Defendants filed a supplement to the motion.  On November 25, 2024, Plaintiff filed a
response. On December 4, 2024, Defendants filed a reply. 
Trial
is currently set for January 22, 2025. 
PARTIES’ REQUESTS 
Defendants
ask the Court to specially set or advance the hearing on their summary
judgment motion or to continue the trial. 
Plaintiff
does not oppose the request to specially set or advance the hearing on the
summary judgment motion, but Plaintiff opposes the request to continue the trial. 
LEGAL STANDARD 
A.   Summary judgment scheduling   
     Code of Civil Procedure section 437c,
subdivision (a), provides:    
“(a) (1) A party may move for summary judgment in an
action or proceeding if it is contended that the action has no merit or that
there is no defense to the action or proceeding. The motion may be made at any
time after 60 days have elapsed since the general appearance in the action or
proceeding of each party against whom the motion is directed or at any earlier
time after the general appearance that the court, with or without notice and
upon good cause shown, may direct. 
“(2) Notice of the motion and supporting papers shall
be served on all other parties to the action at least 75 days before the time
appointed for hearing. If the notice is served by mail, the required 75-day
period of notice shall be increased by 5 days if the place of address is within
the State of California, 10 days if the place of address is outside the State
of California but within the United States, and 20 days if the place of address
is outside the United States. If the notice is served by facsimile
transmission, express mail, or another method of delivery providing for
overnight delivery, the required 75-day period of notice shall be increased by
two court days. 
“(3) The motion shall be heard no later than 30 days
before the date of trial, unless the court for good cause orders otherwise. The
filing of the motion shall not extend the time within which a party must
otherwise file a responsive pleading.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 437c,
subd. (a).) 
To
satisfy the statutory notice requirement, a summary judgment motion “must be
served at least 105 days before trial (longer if served by mail)
[citation].  Motions served
electronically must be served at least 107 days before trial.  [Citation.]” 
(L. Edmon & C. Karnow, Cal. Practice Guide: Civil Procedure Before
Trial (Rutter 2024) ¶ 10:71, p. 10-33.) 
“The 30-day ‘cut-off’ under [Code of Civil Procedure section 437c] is
measured from the trial date in effect when the summary judgment motion is
made.”  (Id., ¶ 10:74, p.
10-33.)   “[A] continuance of the trial
date ‘reopens’ the time for such motions.” 
(Ibid.) 
B.   Motion to continue trial 
California
Rules of Court, rule 3.1332 provides: 
“(a) Trial dates are firm 
“To ensure the prompt disposition of civil cases, the
dates assigned for a trial are firm. All parties and their counsel must regard
the date set for trial as certain. 
“(b) Motion or application 
“A party seeking a continuance of the date set for
trial, whether contested or uncontested or stipulated to by the parties, must
make the request for a continuance by a noticed motion or an ex parte
application under the rules in chapter 4 of this division, with supporting
declarations. The party must make the motion or application as soon as
reasonably practical once the necessity for the continuance is discovered. 
“(c) Grounds for continuance 
“Although continuances of trials are disfavored, each
request for a continuance must be considered on its own merits. The court may
grant a continuance only on an affirmative showing of good cause requiring the
continuance. Circumstances that may indicate good cause include: 
“(1)  The
unavailability of an essential lay or expert witness because of death, illness,
or other excusable circumstances; 
“(2)  The
unavailability of a party because of death, illness, or other excusable
circumstances; 
“(3)  The
unavailability of trial counsel because of death, illness, or other excusable
circumstances; 
“(4)  The
substitution of trial counsel, but only where there is an affirmative showing
that the substitution is required in the interests of justice; 
“(5)  The
addition of a new party if: 
“(A)  The new
party has not had a reasonable opportunity to conduct discovery and prepare for
trial; or 
“(B)  The other
parties have not had a reasonable opportunity to conduct discovery and prepare
for trial in regard to the new party's involvement in the case; 
“(6)  A party's
excused inability to obtain essential testimony, documents, or other material
evidence despite diligent efforts; or 
“(7)  A
significant, unanticipated change in the status of the case as a result of
which the case is not ready for trial. 
“(d) Other factors to be considered 
“In ruling on a motion or application for continuance,
the court must consider all the facts and circumstances that are relevant to
the determination. These may include: 
“(1)  The
proximity of the trial date; 
“(2)  Whether
there was any previous continuance, extension of time, or delay of trial due to
any party; 
“(3)  The length
of the continuance requested; 
“(4)  The
availability of alternative means to address the problem that gave rise to the
motion or application for a continuance; 
“(5)  The
prejudice that parties or witnesses will suffer as a result of the continuance; 
“(6)  If the
case is entitled to a preferential trial setting, the reasons for that status
and whether the need for a continuance outweighs the need to avoid delay; 
“(7)  The
court's calendar and the impact of granting a continuance on other pending
trials; 
“(8)  Whether
trial counsel is engaged in another trial; 
“(9)  Whether
all parties have stipulated to a continuance; 
“(10)  Whether
the interests of justice are best served by a continuance, by the trial of the
matter, or by imposing conditions on the continuance; and 
“(11)  Any other
fact or circumstance relevant to the fair determination of the motion or
application.” 
(Cal. Rules of Court, rule
3.1332.) 
DISCUSSION 
Defendants
ask the Court to specially set or advance the hearing on their motion for
summary judgment or continue the trial to a date after the hearing on the summary
judgment motion. 
Trial is currently scheduled for January 22,
2025.  However, Defendants
filed and electronically served their summary judgment motion on October 24, 2024, more than two weeks after the
statutory deadline discussed above.  Because Defendants did not timely serve their motion for summary judgment, the Court denies Defendants’ motion to specially set or advance the hearing on the
summary judgment motion or to continue the trial. 
CONCLUSION 
The
Court DENIES the motion filed by Defendants Scott Calder Warren and Linda
Calder to specially set or advance the hearing on their motion for summary judgment
or to continue the trial. 
Moving
parties are ordered to give notice of this ruling. 
Moving
parties are ordered to file the proof of service of this ruling with the Court
within five days.