 Case Number:  23STCV18213    Hearing Date:   December 11, 2024    Dept:  28 Having
considered the moving papers, the Court rules as follows.  
BACKGROUND 
On August
2, 2023, Plaintiff Aislinn Olivia Cordova (“Cordova”)
filed this action against Defendants Osvin David
Rodriguez Gonzalez (“Gonzalez”), Mari De Rodriguez Hernandez, and Does 1-10
for motor vehicle tort. 
On
October 27, 2023, Defendant Mariela De Rodriguez Hernandez, erroneously sued
and served as Mari De Rodriguez Hernandez (“Hernandez”), filed an answer. 
On
November 14, 2023, Gonzalez filed an answer. 
On
January 26, 2024, Gonzalez and Hernandez filed a cross-complaint against
Cross-Defendant Cordova for negligence. 
On
June 20, 2024, Cordova filed an answer to the cross-complaint and filed a
cross-complaint against Cross-Defendants Gonzalez and Roes 1-25 for comparative
indemnity, contribution, and declaratory relief.  On August 20, 2024, Gonzalez filed an answer
to the cross-complaint. 
On
September 26, 2024, Hernandez filed a notice of settlement stating that
Hernandez and Gonzalez had reached a settlement with Cordova on Cordova’s complaint. 
On
October 7, 2024, Cordova filed (1) a motion to compel Gonzalez’s responses to request
for production of documents, set one, (2) a motion to compel Gonzalez’s
responses to special interrogatories, set one, and (3) a motion to compel Gonzalez’s
responses to form interrogatories, set one. 
The motions were set for hearing on December 11, 2024.  Gonzalez did not file oppositions. 
On
October 25, 2024, the Court found that the settlement between Defendant Osvin
David Rodriguez Gonzalez and Defendant Mari De Rodriguez Hernandez and
Plaintiff Aislinn Olivia Cordova was in good faith.
On
December 3, 2024, the Court dismissed Cordova’s complaint with prejudice at
Cordova’s request. 
Trial
is currently scheduled for January 29, 2025. 
PARTY’S REQUESTS 
Cordova
asks the Court to compel Gonzalez’s responses to request for production of
documents, set one, special interrogatories, set one, and form interrogatories,
set one. 
LEGAL STANDARD 
A.   Inspection demand 
 “If a party to
whom a demand for inspection, copying, testing, or sampling is directed fails
to serve a timely response to it, the following rules shall apply: 
“(a) The party to whom the demand for inspection,
copying, testing, or sampling is directed waives any objection to the demand,
including one based on privilege or on the protection for work product under
Chapter 4 (commencing with Section 2018.010). The court, on motion, may relieve
that party from this waiver on its determination that both of the following
conditions are satisfied: 
“(1) The party has subsequently served a response that
is in substantial compliance with Sections 2031.210, 2031.220, 2031.230,
2031.240, and 2031.280. 
“(2) The party’s failure to serve a timely response
was the result of mistake, inadvertence, or excusable neglect. 
“(b) The party making the demand may move for an order
compelling response to the demand. 
“(c) Except as provided in subdivision (d), the court
shall impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with Section
2023.010) against any party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or
opposes a motion to compel a response to a demand for inspection, copying,
testing, or sampling, unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction
acted with substantial justification or that other circumstances make the
imposition of the sanction unjust. If a party then fails to obey the order compelling
a response, the court may make those orders that are just, including the
imposition of an issue sanction, an evidence sanction, or a terminating
sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010). In lieu of or in
addition to this sanction, the court may impose a monetary sanction under
Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010). 
“(d) (1) Notwithstanding subdivision (c), absent
exceptional circumstances, the court shall not impose sanctions on a party or
any attorney of a party for failure to provide electronically stored
information that has been lost, damaged, altered, or overwritten as a result of
the routine, good faith operation of an electronic information system. 
“(2) This subdivision shall not be construed to alter
any obligation to preserve discoverable information.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.300.) 
B.   Interrogatories 
“If a party to whom interrogatories are directed fails
to serve a timely response, the following rules apply: 
“(a) The party to whom the interrogatories are
directed waives any right to exercise the option to produce writings under
Section 2030.230, as well as any objection to the interrogatories, including
one based on privilege or on the protection for work product under Chapter 4
(commencing with Section 2018.010). The court, on motion, may relieve that
party from this waiver on its determination that both of the following
conditions are satisfied: 
“(1) The party has subsequently served a response that
is in substantial compliance with Sections 2030.210, 2030.220, 2030.230, and
2030.240. 
“(2) The party’s failure to serve a timely response
was the result of mistake, inadvertence, or excusable neglect. 
“(b) The party propounding the interrogatories may
move for an order compelling response to the interrogatories. 
“(c) The court shall impose a monetary sanction under
Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010) against any party, person, or
attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel a response to
interrogatories, unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction acted
with substantial justification or that other circumstances make the imposition
of the sanction unjust. If a party then fails to obey an order compelling
answers, the court may make those orders that are just, including the imposition
of an issue sanction, an evidence sanction, or a terminating sanction under
Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010). In lieu of or in addition to that
sanction, the court may impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing
with Section 2023.010).” 
(Code Civ. Proc., §
2030.290.) 
DISCUSSION 
On August
13, 2024, Cordova served request for production of documents, set one, special
interrogatories, set one, and form interrogatories, set one, on Gonzalez.  Gonzalez did not provide timely responses and
had not provided responses by the time Cordova filed these motions. 
The
Court grants Cordova’s motion to compel Gonzalez’s responses to request for
production of documents, set one, and orders Gonzalez to serve verified
code-compliant responses to the request for production of documents without
objections and to produce the documents, electronically stored information,
and/or other things requested without objections by January 10, 2025. 
The
Court grants Cordova’s motion to compel Gonzalez’s responses to special
interrogatories, set one, and orders Gonzalez to serve verified code-compliant
responses to the special interrogatories without objections by January 10,
2025. 
The
Court grants Cordova’s motion to compel Gonzalez’s responses to form
interrogatories, set one, and orders Gonzalez to serve verified code-compliant
responses to the form interrogatories without objections by January 10, 2025. 
CONCLUSION 
The Court GRANTS Cross-Defendant
and Cross-Complainant Aislinn Olivia Cordova’s motion to compel Cross-Complainant and
Cross-Defendant Osvin David
Rodriguez Gonzalez’s responses to request for production of documents, set one,
and orders Cross-Complainant and Cross-Defendant Osvin David Rodriguez Gonzalez
to serve verified code-compliant responses to the request for production of
documents without objections and to produce the documents, electronically
stored information, and/or other things requested without objections by January
10, 2025. 
The
Court GRANTS Cross-Defendant and Cross-Complainant Aislinn Olivia Cordova’s
motion to compel Cross-Complainant and Cross-Defendant Osvin David Rodriguez
Gonzalez’s responses to special interrogatories, set one, and orders
Cross-Complainant and Cross-Defendant Osvin David Rodriguez Gonzalez to serve
verified code-compliant responses to the special interrogatories without
objections by January 10, 2025. 
The
Court GRANTS Cross-Defendant and Cross-Complainant Aislinn Olivia Cordova’s
motion to compel Cross-Complainant and Cross-Defendant Osvin David Rodriguez
Gonzalez’s responses to form interrogatories, set one, and orders
Cross-Complainant and Cross-Defendant Osvin David Rodriguez Gonzalez to serve
verified code-compliant responses to the form interrogatories without
objections by January 10, 2025. 
Moving
party is ordered to give notice of these rulings. 
Moving
party is ordered to file the proof of service of this ruling with the Court
within five days. 