  Case Number:  22STCV28104    Hearing Date:   February 8, 2024    Dept:  39 Steve Javidzad, et
al. v. Adler Construction, Inc., et al.
Case No.
22STCV28104
Motion for
Terminating Sanctions
 
            Plaintiffs
Steve Javidzad and Laleh Javidzad (collectively, “Plaintiffs”) filed this
wrongful eviction case against Eric Adler; Adler Construction, Inc. (“Adler
Construction”); and Adler Ventures, Inc. (“Adler Ventures”) (collectively,
“Defendants”).  Plaintiffs allege that
they rented a property in Beverly Hills with a monthly rent of $12,500 from
Defendants.  Plaintiffs allege that
Defendants wrongfully entered the property on September 2, 2021, and changed
the locks, constituting an unlawful eviction. 
Defendants filed a cross-complaint alleging causes of action for breach
of contract, trespass, intentional misrepresentation, and civil extortion.  Defendants allege that Plaintiffs stopped
making rental payments in December 2019, and then falsely claimed not to be
able to pay the rent due to the pandemic.  

 
            On
October 3, 2023, the Court ordered Plaintiff Steve Javidzad to provide
responsive documents within thirty (30) days, per his agreement to do so after
Defendant Adler Ventures filed a motion to compel, and ordered him to pay
monetary sanctions.  On November 1, 2023,
the Court granted Defendants’ motions to compel initial and further
responses.  The Court ordered Plaintiffs
to provide code-compliant responses, without objections, within thirty (30)
days and ordered Plaintiff Steve Javidzad to pay monetary sanctions.  
 
            Now, Defendants move for terminating
sanctions.  As of the date of the motion,
Plaintiffs have not produced any responsive documents or served code-compliant
responses.  (Declaration of Joshua Stein,
¶¶ 5, 12, 16.)  Plaintiffs have not
opposed the motion, and the record reflects no good cause for Plaintiffs’
failure to comply with their discovery obligations.  The Court has considered whether lesser
sanctions would facilitate Plaintiffs’ compliance with their discovery
obligations.  However, the Court previously
imposed monetary sanctions on two occasions, to no avail, and evidentiary and
issue sanctions would not remedy the prejudice caused by Defendants failure to
obtain necessary discovery.  
 
            Based upon
the foregoing, the Court orders as follows:
 
            1.         The Court grants Defendants’ motion for
terminating sanctions.
 
            2.         The Court dismisses Plaintiffs’
complaint with prejudice.
 
            3.         The Court strikes Plaintiffs’ answer to
the Defendants’ cross-complaint.
 
            4.         Defendants shall seek entry of default
within ten (10) days and shall submit a default judgment packet within twenty
(20) days.
 
            5.         The Court advances and vacates all
dates.  The Court issues an Order to Show
Cause why monetary sanctions shall not be imposed against Defendants and/or
Defendants’ counsel-of-record for any failure to comply with this order and
seek timely entry of default and default judgment.  The Court’s authority for this order stems
from California Rules of Court, rule 3.110(g) and (h), as well as Code of Civil
Procedure sections 583.150 and 177.5. 
The OSC hearing shall be held on March 12, 2024, at 8:30 a.m.  However, if possible, the Court will issue a
default judgment in advance of the hearing and will take the hearing
off-calendar.
 
            6.         Defendants’ counsel shall provide
notice and file proof of such with the Court. 
            