 Case Number:  23STCV18794    Hearing Date:   February 8, 2024    Dept:  39 Marineh Arakel v.
Andrew M. Fox, M.D., Inc., et al.
Case Number
23STCV18794
Motion to Compel
Arbitration
 
Plaintiff Marineh Arakel
(“Plaintiff”) filed this wrongful termination action against Defendants, who
move to compel arbitration pursuant to the parties’ written agreement.  The moving party on a petition to compel
arbitration “bears the burden of proving the existence of a valid arbitration
agreement by a preponderance of the evidence, while a party opposing the
petition bears the burden of proving by a preponderance of the evidence any
fact necessary to its defense.  The trial court sits as the trier of fact,
weighing all the affidavits, declarations, and other documentary evidence, and
any oral testimony the court may receive at its discretion, to reach a final
determination.”  (Ruiz v. Moss Bros.
Auto Group, Inc. (2014) 232 Cal.App.4th 836, 842, internal quotations and
citations omitted.) 
 
Defendants rely on an agreement
titled “Nurse Practitioner Independent Contractor Agreement.”  (See Declaration of Michael Thornhill, Exh.
A.)  The agreement is between Andrew M.
Fox, M.D., Inc. (referred to as “Group” in the arbitration agreement) and Plaintiff’s
company, Arakel First Assist, Inc. and its shareholder and President, Plaintiff
(referred to, collectively, as “Contractor” in the arbitration agreement).  (Ibid.) 
The agreement states: “Group desires to engage Contractor on a part-time
basis to provide professional [nurse practitioner] services to Group’s
patients, within the scope of the NP license and training of [Plaintiff], and
Contractor desires to be so engaged by Group and to provide such services to
and on behalf of Group.”  The parties
agreed that “any controversy or claim arising out of or relating to this
Agreement, or the breach thereof” shall be resolved by arbitration pursuant to
the rules and procedures of Judicate West. 

 
            Based upon
the foregoing, Defendant Andrew M. Fox, M.D., Inc. has demonstrate that there
is an arbitration agreement covering the claims at issue.  Plaintiff alleges:
 
“Defendants, and each of them, were the agents, employees,
managing agents, supervisors, coconspirators, parent corporation, joint
employers, alter egos, successors, and/or joint ventures of the other
Defendants, and each of them, and in doing the things alleged herein, were
acting at least in part within the course and scope of said agency, employment,
conspiracy, joint employer, alter ego status, successor status and/or joint
venture and with the permission and consent of each of the other Defendants.”
 
(Complaint, ¶ 13.)  This
is sufficient to invoke the arbitration agreement in this case.  (See, e.g., Dryer v. Los Angeles Rams
(1985) 40 Cal.3d 406, 418; Thomas v. Perry (1988) 200 Cal.App.3d 510,
516.)  
 
            Plaintiff argues
that this arbitration agreement was unconscionable under Armendariz v.
Foundation Health Psychcare Services, Inc. (2000) 24 Cal.4th 83, 96-121.  The agreement is not unconscionable for the
reasons stated by Defendants.  The Court
accepts Defendants’ stipulation to pay the arbitration fees.  (See Defendants’ Reply Brief, p.
6:17-23.)   
 
            Based upon
the foregoing, the Court orders as follows:
 
            1.         The Court grants Defendants’ motion to
compel arbitration based upon their agreement to pay the arbitration fees in
this case.  
 
            2.         The Court advances and vacates all
dates. 
 
            3.         The Court issues an Order to Show Cause
why this case should not be dismissed following arbitration.  The OSC hearing shall be held on November 19,
2024, at 8:30 a.m.  The Court provides
notice: If Plaintiff’s counsel does not appear, absent good cause, the Court
will assume that the matter has been resolved by way of arbitration or
settlement and shall dismiss the case with prejudice.
 
            4.         The parties shall file a status report
on or before November 7, 2024, concerning the status of the arbitration,
including potential arbitration dates.
 
            5.         Defendants’ counsel shall provide
notice and file proof of such with the Court. 
