 Case Number:  23STCV18559    Hearing Date:   June 26, 2024    Dept:  37 HEARING
DATE:                 Wednesday, June 26,
2024
 
CASE
NUMBER:                   23STCV18559
 
CASE NAME:                        David Feeley, et al. v. Jeffrey
R. Vargo, et al.
 
MOVING PARTY:                 Plaintiffs
David Feeley and Porter Ranch Physical Therapy, Inc.
 
OPPOSING PARTY:             Defendants
Jeffrey R. Vargo and Vargo Physical Therapy
 
TRIAL DATE:                        Not Set
 
PROOF OF SERVICE:           OK

                                                                                                                                                            

PROCEEDING:                      Motion for a Preliminary Injunction
 
OPPOSITION:                        23 April 2024
SUPP. OPPOSITION:             20 June 2024
 
REPLY:                                  29
April 2024
SUPP. REPLY:                       21 June 2024   
 
TENTATIVE:                         The Court denies Plaintiffs’ motion for preliminary
injunction.

                                                                                                                                                            

 
Background
 
On August 4, 2023,
David Feeley (“Feeley) and Porter Ranch Physical Therapy, Inc. (“Porter Ranch
PT”) (collectively “Plaintiff”) filed a Complaint against Jeffrey R. Vargo
(“Vargo”); Vargo Physical Therapy (“Vargo PT”) (collectively “Defendants”); and
Does 1 to 50. Plaintiff alleges that he was part of a joint venture with
Defendants to operate a chain of physical therapy clinics until he was
wrongfully ousted from the joint venture. 
 
The operative First
Amended Complaint (“FAC”), filed November 30, 2023, alleges six causes of
action: (1) Breach of Contract; (2) Conversion; (3) Breach of Fiduciary Duty;
(4) Civil Theft (Civ. Code § 496(c)); (5) Declaratory Relief; and (6) Violation
of Corp. Code §§ 1601, 1602. 
 
On April 8, 2024,
Plaintiffs dismissed the sixth cause of action. 
 
On April 26, 2024,
the court sustained Defendants’ demurrer to the FAC with leave to amend but
overruled the demurrer to the second cause of action for conversion. (Order 4/26/2024.)

On March 5, 2024,
Plaintiff moved for a preliminary injunction. Defendants opposed the Motion. After
hearing argument on the motion on May 17, 2024, the court continued the hearing
for supplemental briefing.  The matter is
now again before the court. 
 
motion for
preliminary injunction
 
I.         Legal Standard
 
“A preliminary injunction may be granted
at any time before judgment upon a verified complaint, or upon affidavits if
the complaint in the one case, or the affidavits in the other, show satisfactorily
that sufficient grounds exist therefore.” (CCP § 527(a).) “A preliminary injunction is an interim
remedy designed to maintain the status quo pending a decision on the merits.” (MaJor v. Miraverde Homeowners Assn. (1992) 7
Cal.App.4th 618, 622.) 
 
(a) An injunction may be granted in the
following cases: 
 
(1) When it appears by the complaint that
the plaintiff is entitled to the relief demanded, and the relief, or any part
thereof, consists in restraining the commission or continuance of the act
complained of, either for a limited period or perpetually. 
 
(2) When it appears by the complaint or
affidavits that the commission or continuance of some act during the litigation
would produce waste, or great or irreparable injury, to a party to the
action. 
 
(3) When it appears, during the
litigation, that a party to the action is doing, or threatens, or is about to
do, or is procuring or suffering to be done, some act in violation of the
rights of another party to the action respecting the subject of the action, and
tending to render the judgment ineffectual. 
 
(4) When pecuniary compensation would not
afford adequate relief. 
 
(5) Where it would be extremely difficult
to ascertain the amount of compensation which would afford adequate
relief. 
 
(6) Where the restraint is necessary to
prevent a multiplicity of judicial proceedings. 
 
(7) Where the obligation arises from a
trust.
 
(CCP
§ 526(a).) 
 
“Before
issuing a preliminary injunction, the trial court must ‘carefully weigh the
evidence and decide whether the facts require[ ] such relief.’ [Citation.] The
court evaluates the credibility of witnesses and makes factual findings on
disputed evidence.” (Fleishman v. Superior Court (2002) 102 Cal.App.4th
350, 356.) 
A
judge is not precluded from granting a preliminary injunction merely because of
conflicts in the evidence. (See National Subscription
Television v. Formula International, Inc. (1984) 153
Cal.App.3d 308, 314.) Because a hearing on a preliminary
injunction is not a “trial of a question of fact” within the meaning of CCP §
632, a judge is not required to issue a statement of decision, even on request.
(Oiye v. Fox (2012) 211 Cal.App.4th 1036, 1049.) A
plaintiff seeking injunctive relief must show the absence of an adequate
damages remedy at law. (CCP § 526(a)(4).) Mandatory preliminary injunctions rarely are
granted, and are reserved for extreme cases where the right is established
clearly. (Teachers Ins. & Annuity Assn. v. Furlotti (1999) 70
Cal.App.4th 1487, 1493.)
 
A preliminary injunction ordinarily cannot take effect
unless and until the plaintiff provides an undertaking for damages which the
enjoined defendant may sustain by reason of the injunction if the court finally
decides that the plaintiff was not entitled to the injunction. (See CCP §
529(a); CRC, rule 3.1150(f); City of South San Francisco v. Cypress Lawn
Cemetery Assn. (1992) 11 Cal.App.4th 916, 920.)
 
II.        Evidentiary Objections
 
The court
declines to rule on the objections to the Declarations of Ryan Ritthamel and
Mathew Himmelrick because they are not material to the disposition of this
Motion. 
 
Defendants’
Objection to the Declaration of David Feeley:
 
Objections
Nos. 17 and 18 are overruled. 
 
Defendants’
Objection to the Declaration of Randy Haj: 
 
Objections
Nos. 19 to 24 are overruled. 
 
III.      Discussion
 
A.        Factual Summary 
 
Plaintiffs assert that in 2004 Plaintiffs and Defendant Vargo
agreed to merge Plaintiff’s Porter Ranch Physical Therapy, Inc. (“Porter Ranch
PT”) with Defendant Vargo’s three physical therapy clinics (collectively “Vargo
PT”) to form a joint venture (the “2004 Agreement” or “Joint Venture
Agreement”). (Feeley Decl. ¶ 2.) Under the 2004 Agreement, Plaintiff would
receive $22,000.00 per month draw from the Porter Ranch PT and
Defendant Vargo would receive $8,000.00 per month. (Id. ¶ 3.) “If there
were profits beyond those amounts, the partners would split them 50/50, with
those distributions typically made on a quarterly basis.” (Ibid.)
 
As part of the 2004
Agreement, the parties opened additional clinics (the “Joint Venture Clinics”)
wherein ownership of the clinics was based on the capital contributions and
labor to each new location. (Feeley Decl. ¶ 5.) Contributions and labor
included scouting for locations, purchasing supplies, evaluating potential
hires, and handling administrative aspects of office openings. (Id. ¶
6.) Plaintiff Feeley asserts his capital
contributions and ownership interest in the Joint Venture Clinics are as follows:


Porter Ranch – Plaintiff’s ownership if 50%
Palmdale (2004) – Contribution: $56,114.00; Ownership:
     40%
Reseda (2005) – Contribution: $120,000.00; Ownership:
     30%
Burbank (2011) – Contribution: $60,000.00; Ownership:
     40%
San Fernando (2018) – Contribution: $66,000.00;
     Ownership: 33%

 
(Feeley
Decl. ¶ 8; Haj Decl. Ex. 12.) Plaintiff had access to the bank account for each
joint venture clinic and profits were distributed on a quarterly basis. (Feeley
Decl. ¶ 10.) Robert Greider (“Greider”) was tasked with the day-to-day
management of the clinics. (Feeley Decl. ¶¶ 11-13.) Per the 2004 Agreement,
Plaintiff was paid the agreed-upon $22,000 monthly draw and his proportional
share of any profit distributions from the clinics. (Feeley Decl. ¶ 14.) 
 
Plaintiff
Feeley further asserts that the monthly draw and profit distributions were not
based on how much Plaintiff worked.  After
becoming ill in 2020, Plaintiff continued to receive the agreed draw and profit
distributions for the joint venture clinics. (Feeley Decl. ¶ 16; Haj Decl. ¶¶
7-10, Ex. 6-9, 16; Grieder Decl. ¶ 11.) However, on January 18, 2023, Plaintiff
was ousted from the joint venture. (Feeley Decl. ¶ 17.) Despite disputing
Vargo’s authority to change the 2004 Agreement, Plaintiff was physically locked
out of the clinics, lost access to the bank accounts, and has been unable to
participate in the management of the joint venture. (Id. ¶ 18.)
Plaintiff Feeley asserts that February 2023 was the last day he was paid profit
distributions or a monthly draw. (Ibid.) After attempts at reaching a
settlement failed, Plaintiff filed suit on August 4, 2023. (Id. ¶ 21.) 
 
In
opposition, Defendants do not deny that Plaintiff Feeley participated in a
profit-sharing plan, but Grieder asserts that participation in the
profit-sharing plan was dependent on Feeley continuing to work for Vargo PT.
(Grieder Decl. ¶ 2.) At issue is whether Plaintiff Feeley’s right to
participate in the profit-sharing plan was contingent on being able to work. 
 
B.        Plaintiffs’
Request for a Preliminary Injunction
Plaintiffs seek a preliminary injunction enjoining Defendants
from:
 
1)    
Blocking Plaintiffs’ access
to the joint venture clinics (defined below), including the physical premises
of the clinics;
 
2)    
Blocking Plaintiffs’ access
to property belonging to the joint venture clinics, including without
limitation any and all financial accounts associated with the joint venture
clinics;
 
3)    
Preventing Plaintiffs from
withdrawing their ordinary and usual distributions from the financial accounts
for the joint venture clinics, including:
 
a)    
$621,385.00 in prior
distributions that would have been paid to Plaintiffs from January 2023 through
the present under the parties claimed joint venture agreement;
 
b)    
$22,000 per month from
March 2024 until the termination of this lawsuit by judgment, dismissal, or
otherwise; and
c)    
If profit distributions are
made from any of the joint venture clinics, Plaintiffs’ proportionate share of
that distribution, as follows: 
 
                                              
i.         
For the Porter Ranch clinic
(defined below): 50% of any distribution; 
 
                                            
ii.         
For the Palmdale clinic
(defined below): 40% of any distribution;
 
                                          
iii.         
For the Reseda clinic
(defined below): 30% of any distribution;
 
                                          
iv.         
For the Burbank clinic
(defined below): 40% of any distribution;
 
                                            
v.         
For the San Fernando clinic
(defined below): 33% of any distribution
 
4)    
Refusing to pay any profit
distributions to Plaintiffs to the extent Defendants otherwise would have
distributed profits to the owners of the clinics but for the terms of this
order;
 
5)    
Diverting business from the
joint venture clinics to the extent they otherwise would not have done so but
for the terms of this order;
 
6)    
Defendants are immediately
enjoined from incurring or attributing business expenses to the joint venture
clinics to the extent they otherwise would not have done so but for the terms
of this order;
 
7)    
As used in this order, the
“joint venture clinics” refer to the following physical therapy clinics: 
 
a)    
The Vargo Physical Therapy,
Inc. branded physical therapy clinic located at 3425 W. Victory Blvd., Burbank,
California 91505 (the “Burbank clinic”);
 
b)    
The Vargo Physical Therapy,
Inc. branded physical therapy clinic located at 38656 Medical Center Dr., Suite
B, Palmdale, California 93551 (the “Palmdale clinic”);
 
c)    
The Vargo Physical Therapy,
Inc. branded physical therapy clinic located at 18039 Sherman Way, Reseda,
California 91335 (the “Reseda clinic”);
 
d)    
The Vargo Physical Therapy,
Inc. branded physical therapy clinic located at 1240 Truman St., San Fernando,
California 91340 (the “San Fernando clinic”); and
 
e)    
 The Vargo Physical Therapy, Inc. branded
physical therapy clinic located at 11225 Tampa Avenue, Northridge, California
91326 (the “Porter Ranch clinic”).
 
“In deciding
whether to issue a preliminary injunction to a plaintiff, a trial court must
weigh two interrelated factors: (1) The plaintiff's likelihood of success on
the merits at trial, and (2) the harm to the plaintiff if the injunction is not
issued against the harm to the defendant if it is.” (Yee v.
American National Ins. Co. (2015) 235 Cal.App.4th
453, 456.) The
burden of proof is on the plaintiff as the moving party “to show all elements
necessary to support issuance of a preliminary injunction.”  (O'Connell
v. Superior Court (2006) 141 Cal.App.4th 1452, 1481.)   
1.         Likelihood to Succeed on the
Merits  
 
Under
California law, an agreement may be express or implied by conduct and may be
written or oral. (Civ. Code, §§ 1619, 1621, 1622, 1623.) The parties do not
dispute that Plaintiff Feeley and Defendants were part of a profit-sharing
agreement wherein Plaintiff received $22,000.00 a month plus money that was
classified as either profits by Plaintiffs or as bonuses by Defendants. (Vargo
Decl. ¶ 10; Haj Decl. ¶ 15, Ex. 16.) “Between 2008 and 2022, Vargo
PT has paid Mr. Feeley, through Porter Ranch PT, a total of over $4.2 million
under the Vargo PT profit-sharing plan.”(Grieder Decl. ¶ 8.) 
 
Defendant Vargo asserts the
$22,000 monthly payment was a monthly management fee that was contingent on
Plaintiff Feeley continuing to work for Vargo PT and that the terms of the
profit-sharing arrangement were solely determined at the discretion of
Defendant Vargo. (Vargo Decl.  ¶ 16;
Grieder Decl. ¶ 5.) Defendants maintain that any payments to Plaintiff Feeley
were repayment of the loans with interest plus bonus compensation for work
performed. (Vargo Decl. ¶¶ 16. 19.) Defendants assert that Defendant Vargo had
the sole authority to modify the terms of the 2004 Agreement but provide no
evidence of what these terms were or that continuing to work for Vargo PT was a
condition of payment under the agreement. 
 
“A contract
is unenforceable as illusory when one of
the parties has the unfettered or arbitrary right to modify or terminate the
agreement or assumes no obligations thereunder.” (Harris v. TAP Worldwide, LLC
(2016) 248 Cal.App.4th 373, 385.) Here, the Declarations of Mr. Grieder and
Defendant Vargo suggest that Defendant Vargo had the sole authority to change
or terminate the profit-sharing agreement as he saw fit. (Vargo Decl.  ¶ 16; Grieder Decl. ¶ 5.) No evidence is
provided by Defendants to support the finding that participation in the profit
sharing and monthly draw was contingent on certain terms being met by the
participants, including continuing to work for Vargo PT. In contrast, the
evidence shows Plaintiff Feeley continued receiving the $22,000 monthly draw
plus profits even though he was out sick and not working for Vargo PT, up until
Defendants decided to stop all payments in early 2023. (Vargo Decl. ¶ 25; Haj
Decl. Ex. 16.) 
 
Defendants also do not dispute that
Plaintiff made contributions to the opening of four Vargo PT/joint venture clinics
but assert that the contributions were loans to Vargo PT and not capital,
reflecting an ownership interest. (Vargo Decl. ¶ 16.) Defendants provide no
evidence that Plaintiff Feeley’s contributions were loans, as Defendants fail
to provide the loan documents with the agreed upon interest to support the
findings that the repayment to Plaintiff was “repayment with interest of loans
made to Vargo PT.” (Vargo Decl. ¶ 16.) 
 
Defendants further assert that
Plaintiff Feeley was merely a Clinical Director of the Porter Ranch clinic with
responsibilities not different from those of any other Vargo PT Clinical
Director. (Vargo Decl. ¶ 21; Grieder Decl. ¶ 9.) However, Defendants failed to
explain why Plaintiff had access to the bank accounts of five Vargo PT clinics,
specifically the five Plaintiff asserts were part of the Joint Venture Clincs,
despite only being the Clinical Director for the Porter Ranch clinic. (Haj
Decl. ¶ 7, Ex. 6, 7; Grieder Decl. ¶ 10.) Defendants further admit that
Plaintiff Feeley had the authority to initiate the transfers himself. (Grieder
Decl. ¶ 10.) Defendants fail to explain why Plaintiff Feeley was given access
to the other bank accounts and fail to show it was common for participants who
had made loans to Vargo PT to be given access to the bank accounts for each of
the clinics to which the loans corresponded. Moreover, if the profit
distributions were bonus compensation set by Defendant Vargo, why and how did
Mr. Grieder calculate the appropriate payment amounts? (Vargo Decl. ¶ 16,
Grider Decl. ¶ 10.)
 
As Defendants failed to rebut
Plaintiffs’ evidence as to a continuing right to payment of a $22,000.00
monthly draw plus profit distributions, Plaintiff Feeley has shown he is likely
to succeed on the merits.
 
      2.         Irreparable
Harm 
 
“[L]osing a job, and the income it
entails, amounts to irreparable harm.” (Costa Mesa City Employees'
Assn. v. City of Costa Mesa (2012) 209 Cal.App.4th 298, 308.) “To
obtain a preliminary injunction, a plaintiff ordinarily is required to present
evidence of the irreparable injury or interim harm that it will suffer if an
injunction is not issued pending an adjudication of the merits.” (White v. Davis (2003) 30 Cal.4th 528, 554; see also CCP
§ 526(a)(2).)
 
Plaintiff Feeley asserts that
the joint venture was his family’s primary source of support and being cut off
from those distributions resulted in Plaintiff having to sell property to pay
the mortgage on the family home, legal fees, and related costs. (Feeley Decl. ¶
23.) Plaintiff Feeley asserts he had to rely on the financial support of family members to meet basic expenses for
living. (Ibid.) 
 
After the May 17, 2024,
hearing, the court allowed Defendants to conduct limited discovery on Plaintiffs’
financial condition to assess whether Plaintiff Feeley can meet his financial
obligations and show he will suffer irreparable harm for which there is no
adequate legal remedy. (CCP § 526.) After considering the parties' supplemental
briefs, the court finds that the Plaintiffs cannot show they will suffer
irreparable harm and that monetary damages would be an inadequate legal remedy.
“Specific performance of a contract will not be compelled
when an adequate remedy exists at law, and if monetary damages afford adequate
relief and are not extremely difficult to ascertain, an injunction cannot be
granted.” (Thayer Plymouth Center, Inc. v. Chrysler Motors Corp. (1967) 255 Cal.App.2d 300, 306 (Thayer).) 
 
Plaintiff Feeley asserts that
he had to sell the property to pay ordinary expenses such as the mortgage and
legal fees. (Feeley Decl. ¶ 23.) “An injunction cannot
issue in a vacuum based on the proponents' fears about something that may
happen in the future. It must be supported by actual evidence[.]” (Korean Philadelphia Presbyterian Church v. California Presbytery
(2000) 77 Cal.App.4th 1069, 1084.) Here, it is
immaterial that Plaintiffs in the past had to sell personal assets and property
to sustain themselves financially. What matters is what present and future harm
the Plaintiffs will suffer if the injunction is not granted. Absent from Plaintiff Feeley’s declaration are representations
that in the future Plaintiff will need to sell personal assets and property to
meet his basic financial obligations. 
 
Plaintiff Feeley asserts that his present financial hardship
includes “delayed payment of my usual contribution to Porter Ranch Physical
Therapy, Inc.’s defined benefit plan” for the benefit of Plaintiff Feeley and
his wife. (Feeley Supp. Decl. ¶ 4.) Plaintiff Feeley also attached documents
showing the Feeley family’s monthly expenses for their mortgage, health
insurance, and home equity line of credit for May 2024. (Haj Supp. Decl. ¶ 17,
Ex. 4.) 
 
Defendants provide evidence that Plaintiffs currently have a
significant sum in cash assets as of May 2024. 
(See Pancer Supp. Decl. Ex. 1, 2, 4, 5.) 
The cash assets do not include Plaintiffs’ retirement accounts or other
assets. The court considers Plaintiff Feeley’s monthly expenses against the sum
he has available to him in cash assets. Excluding Plaintiffs’ legal fees, the
court finds that the cash assets are sufficient to meet the Plaintiffs’
financial obligations in the near future, precluding the finding of irreparable
harm. (See California Retail Portfolio
Fund GMBH & Co. KG v. Hopkins Real Estate Group (2011) 193 Cal.App.4th 849,
857 [“In the context of injunctions, insolvency or the inability to otherwise pay
money damages is a classic type of irreparable
harm”].) 
 
Plaintiff Feeley asserts
that another financial hardship is the legal fees he will incur in this action.
(Haj Decl. ¶¶ 7, 8.) The court is unaware of any case law finding that the
inability to afford legal fees equates to irreparable harm and Plaintiffs have
cited no legal authority supporting such a proposition. 
 
While the court agrees that the loss of income may in some
instances constitute irreparable harm, Plaintiffs fail to show that the loss of
income will result in the Feeley family lacking “funds
necessary to feed, house, and clothe themselves and their families for the
duration” of this litigation. (White, supra, 30 Cal.4th at p. 559.)
Plaintiffs fail to provide evidence showing they will be unable to
cover future costs for basic necessities or that they will have to cash in
their retirement and pay penalties to afford essential necessities. “The applicant must demonstrate a real threat of immediate and
irreparable injury [citations] due to the inadequacy of legal remedies.” (Triple A Machine Shop, Inc. v. State of California (1989) 213 Cal.App.3d 131, 138.) 
Consequently, Plaintiffs fail to show that unless this injunction
is granted, the cash reserves they have will be insufficient to sustain them
financially and they will be forced to sell property and personal assets that
are unique and cannot be replaced and compensated by monetary damages. “Generally, where damages afford an adequate remedy by way of
compensation for breach of contract, equitable relief will be denied.” (Thayer,
supra, 255 Cal.App.2d at p. 306.) 
 
The court is also
concerned that if the injunction is granted but Plaintiff fails to prevail in
this action, Plaintiffs will be unable to repay the money given to them under
this injunction. “In failing to consider the
effect of its interim relief on the status quo of the litigation, the trial
court ignored the foundational legal principle that the general purpose of a preliminary injunction
is to preserve the status quo pending a final adjudication of the claims on the
merits.” (O'Connell v. Superior Court (2006) 141 Cal.App.4th 1452, 1472.)
 
The court finds that the Plaintiffs have failed to meet their
burden of showing they will suffer irreparable harm that is not fully compensable by monetary damages. “In general, if the plaintiff may be
fully compensated by the payment of damages in the event he prevails, then
preliminary injunctive relief should be denied.” (Tahoe Keys Property Owners'
Assn. v. State Water Resources Control Bd. (1994) 23 Cal.App.4th
1459, 1471.) 
 
C.        Plaintiffs’
Request for Access to the Joint Venture Clinics 
 
The
evidence before the court reflects that Defendant Vargo decided to cut
Plaintiff off from the monthly draw and profit sharing because Plaintiff has
been unable to return to work due to health reasons. (Vargo
Decl. ¶ 24; Haj Decl. ¶ 15, Ex. 16; Compl. ¶¶ 19, 20.) Plaintiff Feeley
provides no evidence that his health has sufficiently improved and he can
resume work at the Joint Venture Clinics, including the work involved in managing
the clinics. Defendants have also provided evidence that Plaintiff Feeley’s
efforts to physically access the Joint Venture Clinics has disrupted business
operations and patient care. (Wolpert Decl. ¶¶ 4-6; Gradascevic Decl. ¶ 5-8.) 
 
Lastly, the operative
pleading does not allege that Defendants have mismanaged the assets from the Joint
Venture Clinic such that Plaintiffs need access to the clinics’ bank accounts to
assess the extent of such damage. Plaintiffs also fail to show that ordinary
discovery is inadequate to obtain the information and evidence Plaintiffs need
to prove their claims
 
Based on the above,
the court denies Plaintiffs’ request for preliminary injunction. 
 
Conclusion
 
Plaintiffs’ request
for a preliminary injunction is denied. Defendants to give notice. 
 