  Case Number:  23STCV15435    Hearing Date:   June 26, 2024    Dept:  37 CASE NUMBER:                   23STCV15435
CASE NAME:                        Infinity Medical Alliance, Inc. v. A&G Management Services, Inc.,
et al.
MOVING PARTY:                 Cross-Defendants Infinity
Medical Alliance, Inc. and Larisa Vinnitskaya
OPPOSING PARTY:             Cross-Complainants A&G
Management Service, Inc. and Aram Sharnazyan
TRIAL DATE:                        Not Set
PROOF OF SERVICE:           OK

                                                                                                                                                            

PROCEEDING:                      Demurrer to Second Amended
Cross-Complaint
OPPOSITION:                        11 June 2024
REPLY:                                  17
June 2024
 
TENTATIVE:                         The demurrer to the first cause of action is
overruled. The demurrer to the second, third, fourth, fifth, sixth, seventh,
eighth, ninth, tenth, and eleventh cause of action is sustained without leave
to amend. Cross-Defendants to provide notice. 

                                                                                                                                                            

 
Background
 
On July 3, 2023, Infinity Medical
Alliance, Inc. (“Plaintiff” or “IMA”) filed a Complaint against A&G
Management Services, Inc. (“A&G”); Aram Sharnazyan (“Sharnazyan”); and Does
1 to 50. 
 
The
Complaint alleges four causes of action: (1) Breach of Contract, (2)
Declaratory Relief, (3) Trespass- Monetary and Injunctive Relief; and (4)
Conversion. 
 
On
August 7, 2023, Defendants A&G and Sharnazyan filed a Cross-Complaint
(“CC”) against IMA, Larisa Vinnitskaya; Nikita Baranovskiy, Nixpro Inc.;
Konstantin Khlevnoy, Johnathan M. Quick, Jonathan Bohun, and Roes 1 to 50. 
 
Cross-Defendants IMA and Larisa
Vinnitskaya (“Vinnitskaya”) demurred to the Cross-Complaint (“CC”). On December
15, 2023, the court sustained the demurrer to the Cross-Complaint with leave to
amend. 
 
On March 21, 2024, Cross-Complainants
filed the operative Second Amended Cross-Complaint (“SACC”) alleging eleven
causes of action:
 
1)    
Breach
of Contract – against IMA and Roes 1 to 50;
2)    
Intentional
Misrepresentation – against all Cross-Defendants; 
3)    
Negligent
Misrepresentation – against all Cross-Defendants; 
4)    
Breach
of Implied Covenant of Good Faith and Fair Dealing – against IMA and Roes 1 to
50; 
5)    
Receipt
of Stolen Property (Pen. Code § 496(c)) – against all Cross-Defendants; 
6)    
Conversion,
against all Cross-Defendants; 
7)    
Intentional
Interference with Contractual Relations - against Vinnitskaya, Baranovskiy,
Nixpro, Khlevnoy, Quick, Tran, and Bohun; 
8)    
Intentional
Interference with Prospective Economic Relations – against Baranovskiy, Nixpro,
Khlevnoy, Quick, Tran, and Bohun;
9)    
Negligent
Interference with Prospective Economic Relations- against Baranovskiy, Nixpro,
Khlevnoy, Quick, Tran, and Bohun;
10) Unfair Business Practices (Bus. &
Prof. Code § 17200, et seq.)- against IMA, Vinnitskaya, Baranovskiy, and
Nixpro; and
11) Conspiracy – against all Cross-Defendants
 
Cross-Defendants IMA and Vinnitskaya
(collectively “Cross-Defendants) now demur to the SACC. Cross-Complainants
oppose the demurrer. The matter is now before the court.  
 
 
Discussion
 
I.         Legal Standard
 
Where pleadings are defective, a party may raise the defect
by way of a demurrer. (Coyne v. Krempels (1950) 36 Cal.2d 257, 262.) A
demurrer tests the sufficiency of a pleading, and the grounds for a demurrer
must appear on the face of the pleading or from judicially noticeable matters.¿
(CCP, § 430.30(a); Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311, 318.) In
evaluating a demurrer, the court accepts the complainant’s properly pled facts
as true and ignores contentions, deductions, and conclusory statements. (Daar
v. Yellow Cab Co. (1976) 67 Cal.2d 695, 713; Serrano v. Priest (1971)
5 Cal.3d 584, 591.) Moreover, the court does not consider whether a plaintiff
will be able to prove the allegations or the possible difficulty in making such
proof. (Fisher v. San Pedro Peninsula Hospital (1989) 214 Cal.App.3d
590, 604.) 
Leave to amend must be allowed
where there is a reasonable possibility of successful amendment. (Goodman v.
Kennedy (1976) 18 Cal.3d 335, 348.)¿ The burden is on the complainant to
show the Court that a pleading can be amended successfully. (Ibid.)
II.        Demurrer[1]
 
A.        Summary
of Allegations in SACC
 
Cross-Defendant
Infinity Medical Alliance, Inc. (“IMA”) is the holder of an adult-use and
cannabis business license and is the owner of a cannabis business located in
Torrence, CA (the “Business”). (SACC, ¶¶ 4, 
16.) Larisa Vinnitskaya (“Vinnitskaya”) is the Chief Executive Officer
of IMA. (SACC, ¶ 5.) Cross-complainant Aram Sharnazyan (“Sharnazyan”) owns and
operates A&G Management Services, Inc. (“A&G”). (SACC, ¶¶ 1, 2, 17.) On
or about September 25, 2019, IMA and A&G entered into an agreement (the
“Agreement”) wherein A&G would be the exclusive manager and operator of the
Business. (SACC, ¶ 18, Ex. 1.) 
 
                        i.          Cross-Complainants’ Relationship with
IMA 
 
Under
the Agreement, A&G would pay IMA a fixed monthly fee of $60,000. (SACC, ¶
18, Ex. 1, § 3.3.) However, IMA asserts that in June 2022, there was a
modification to only pay $45,000 for a year in consideration for A&G’s
incurred costs for electrical system upgrades made to the business. (SACC, 32.)
IMA drafted an amendment to reflect the reduced monthly fee (the “Amendment”),
which A&G signed and returned to IMA on or about June 28, 2022. (SACC, ¶
32, Ex. 2.) Cross-Complainants assert that IMA accepted the reduced monthly fee
for nearly a year without dispute, thus accepting, confirming, and ratifying
the adoption of the Amendment. (SACC, ¶ 32.) 
 
In
April 2022, A&G discovered that the Business had various delinquent tax
liabilities going back to 2012 when A&G had not yet entered into the
Agreement. (SACC, ¶ 31.) A&G asserts it was willing and ready to make
payments to the California Department of Tax and Fee Administration (“CDTFA”)
but Vinnitskaya, on behalf of IMA, instructed A&G not to pay the tax
liabilities until AMA could settle with CDTFA. (SACC, ¶ 31.) 
 
                        ii.         Cross-Complainants’
Relationship with Baranovskiy
 
In
June 2022, A&G hired Nikita Baranovskiy (“Baranovskiy”) to assist with the
Business’ day-to-day operations. (SACC, ¶ 20.) Baranovskiy in turn hired his
associates “Khlevnoy, Quick, Tran, and Bohun as personnel to manage the
Business’s day-to-day operations.” (SAC, ¶ 21.) In January 2023, Baranovskiy
deposited monies from the cash registers into a bank account belonging to him
and/or Nixpro Inc. in violation of A&G’s instruction to deposit all monies
into IMA’s bank account. (SACC, ¶ 23.) In March 2023, A&G’s accountant
discovered Baranovskiy’s scheme to embezzle the Business’s profits. (SACC, ¶¶
25, 28.) In June 2023, A&G terminated the partnership with Baranovskiy and
his associates. (SACC, ¶ 30.) 
 
Cross-Complainants
assert that the reduced monthly fee and taxes were never an issue between IMA
and A&G until A&G terminated Baranovskiy. (SACC, ¶¶ 33.) In June 2023,
IMA alleged A&G breached the Agreement due to nonpayment of taxes and the
reduced monthly fee. (SACC, ¶ 34.) On or about July 4, 2023, Cross-Complainants
vacated the premises of the Business and ceased all activities regarding the
Business or IMA. 
 
iii.       IMA’s Unfair Business Practices
 
The
SACC alleges upon information and belief that IMA received the proceeds from
Baranovskiy’s embezzlement and benefitted from his schemes. (SACC, ¶ 36.) 
 
IMA
instructed Cross-Complainants to not make payments of taxes to CDTFA to
fraudulently induce A&G to breach the Agreement. (SACC, ¶ 37.) IMA did not
fully execute the Amendment for the reduced monthly fee in order to
fraudulently induce A&G to breach the Agreement. (SACC, ¶ 38.) 
 
B.        First Cause of Action Breach of Contract
 
Cross-Complainants’ first cause of
action is premised on allegations that IMA induced Cross-Complainants to breach
the Agreement by instructing it to not pay taxes and not fully executing the
Amendment agreeing to a reduced monthly rate. (SACC, ¶¶ 44-46, 48, Ex. 1, 2.)
Accordingly, IMA breached Section 5.1(f) of the Agreement by failing to act in
good faith and act in the best interest of the parties. (SACC, ¶ 49, Ex. 1.) 
 
Cross-Defendants IMA and Vinnitskaya
assert that Cross-Complainants’ purported modifications are invalid because
they are against the express terms of the Agreement. The relevant provisions of
the Agreement state: 
 
Section
2.7 Manager Costs. Subject to Section 3.3, Manager shall be responsible
for all costs and expense of managing the Project, including, without
limitation, all . . .. (iii) common area maintenance, insurance, real property
taxes . . . (iv) federal, state, and/or city taxes related to the Project . . .

 
[
. . .]
 
Section
4.1 Fixed Monthly Fee.
            (a) During the Term, Manager shall
pay Company a monthly flat fee of Sixty Thousand Dollars ($60,000) (the “Monthly
Fee”) in accordance with the terms hereof. . .
 
[.
. . ]
 
Section
10.9 Entire Agreement. This Agreement . . . constitutes the sole and
entire agreement of the parties of this Agreement with respect to the subject
matter contained herein, and supersedes all prior and contemporaneous
understandings and agreements, both written and oral, with respect to the
subject matter. 
 
[
. . . ]
Section
10.12 Amendment and Modification; Waiver. This Agreement may only be
amended, modified, or supplemented by an agreement in writing signed by each
party hereto. No waiver by either party of any of the provisions hereof shall
be effective unless explicitly set forth in writing and signed by the waiving
party. Except as otherwise set forth in this Agreement, no failure to exercise
or delay in exercising any rights, remedy, power, or privilege arising from
this Agreement shall operate or be construed as a waiver thereof; nor shall any
single or partial exercise of any right, remedy, power, or privilege hereunder
preclude any other or further exercise thereof or the exercise of any other
right, remedy, power, or privilege. 
 
(SACC, Ex. 1 at p. 16, §§ 2.7, 4.1,
10.9, 10.12 [italics original].)
 
Therefore, Cross-Defendants assert that
they could not breach the Agreement based on verbal modifications because the
modifications are invalid under the Agreement unless they are in writing and signed
by IMA. 
 
In opposition, Cross-Complainants
assert that the implied in fact modifications are valid. “There cannot be a
valid, express contract and an implied contract, each embracing the same
subject matter, existing at the same time.” (Wal-Noon Corp. v. Hill
(1975) 45 Cal.App.3d 605, 613.) “However, that is not to say the parties may
not in that manner thereafter modify their agreement.” (Wagner v. Glendale Adventist Medical Center (1989) 216
Cal.App.3d 1379, 1388 [italics added].)
 
When one party has, through oral representations and
conduct or custom, subsequently behaved in a manner antithetical to one or more
terms of an express written contract, he or she has induced the other party to
rely on the representations and conduct or custom. In that circumstance, it
would be equally inequitable to deny the relying party the benefit of the other
party's apparent modification of the written contract.
 
(Ibid.)


“[W]here
the subsequent conduct of parties is inconsistent with and clearly contrary to
provisions of the written agreement, the parties' modification setting aside
the written provisions will be implied.” (Diamond Woodworks, Inc. v.
Argonaut Ins. Co. (2003) 109 Cal.App.4th
1020, 1038 overruled on other grounds by Simon v. San Paolo U.S. Holding
Co., Inc. (2005) 35 Cal.4th 1159; see also Garrison v. Edward Brown & Sons (1944) 25 Cal.2d
473, 479 [“Before a contract modifying a written contract can be implied, the
conduct of the parties according to the findings of the trial court must be
inconsistent with the written contract so as to warrant the conclusion that the
parties intended by modify the written contract.”].) 
 
Cross-Defendants argue the cases relied
on by Cross-Complainants are unavailing because the cases cited did not have an
integration clause or a requirement that modifications be in writing. However,
Cross-Defendants fail to cite case law stating an express agreement that
precludes oral modifications may never be modified orally. 
“A contract in writing may be modified by an oral
agreement to the extent that the oral agreement is executed by the parties.”
(Civ. Code, § 1698(b).) “The rules provided by subdivisions (b) and (c) [of
section 1698] merely describe cases where proof of an oral modification is
permitted; these rules do not, however, affect in any way the burden of the
party claiming that there was an oral modification to produce sufficient
evidence to persuade the trier of fact that the parties actually did make an
oral modification of the contract.” (See Law Revision Commission comments on
Civ. Code § 1698.)
 
California courts have found subsequent oral modifications to
be valid even when the agreement expressly provides that only written
modifications are valid. (See LGCY Power, LLC v. Superior
Court (2022) 75 Cal.App.5th
844, 867–868 [“That Sewell's employment agreement contains a provision that
requires all modifications be in writing does not make Civil Code section 1698,
subdivision (b), inapplicable”]; Biren v. Equality Emergency
Medical Group, Inc. (2002) 102 Cal.App.4th 125, 141 [The parties may,
by their conduct, waive a contractual provision requiring amendments to the
contract to be in writing, where the evidence shows that it was their intent to
waive the contractual provision.].)“[N]otwithstanding a provision in a
written agreement that precludes oral modification, the parties may, by their
words or conduct, waive contractual rights.” (Wind Dancer Production Group v.
Walt Disney Pictures (2017) 10 Cal.App.5th 56, 78.)
 
Accordingly, whether Cross-Defendant
IMA agreed orally to modify the Agreement remains a disputed issue of fact. In
other words, the parties may by their conduct wave a no oral modification
provision where the evidence shows that was their intent, and such an inquiry
“is ordinarily a question of fact unless ‘“there are no disputed facts and only
one reasonable inference may be drawn.’ ” (Park v. NMSI, Inc.
(2023) 96 Cal.App.5th 346, 358.) 
 
Taking the facts in the SACC as true,
IMA breached the Agreement when it instructed A&G to delay the payment of
taxes and sued A&G for breaching the Agreement despite IMA orally agreeing
to the modifications in violation Section 5.1(f) of the Agreement: 
 
Section
5.1 Representation and Warranties of the Parties. Each Party warrants
and represents to the other as follows: 
 
[
. . . ]
 
(f)        Such Party will act in good faith and in
the best interest of the Parties, collectively, in order to give the Project
the best chances of being successful. 
 
(SACC, ¶ 49, Ex. 1, § 5.1(f).) 
 
The demurrer to the first cause of
action is overruled. 
 
C.        Fifth and Sixth
Causes of Action – Receipt of Stolen Property (Penal Code, § 496(c)) and
Conversion 
 
Penal Code § 496(a) states in relevant part: 
 
Every
person who buys or receives any property that has been stolen or that has been
obtained in any manner constituting theft or extortion, knowing the property to
be so stolen or obtained, or who conceals, sells, withholds, or aids in
concealing, selling, or withholding any property from the owner, knowing
the property to be so stolen or obtained, shall be punished by imprisonment in
a county jail for not more than one year, or imprisonment pursuant to
subdivision (h) of Section 1170.
 
(Id. [italics added].)
 
To plead a cause of action for conversion, one
must allege (1) the plaintiff’s ownership or right to possession of personal
property; (2) defendant’s disposition of the property inconsistent with
plaintiff’s rights; and (3) resulting damages. (Fremont Indemnity Co. v.
Fremont General Corp. (2007) 148 Cal.App.4th 97, 119.) 
 
Cross-Defendants demurrer to the sixth cause of action on the grounds
that the monies embezzled belong to Cross-Defendant IMA, not Cross-Complainants.
Accordingly, Cross-Complainants do not have a possessory interest in the
converted funds. Cross-Defendants point out under IMA’s cannabis license,
A&G as the management company is only entitled to manage the Business on
IMA’s behalf but cannot sell cannabis itself or accept many for cannabis in its
own name. (See LACM Code, §§ 104.21(e), 105.06(a), and Bus. & Prof. Code,
§§ 26031.5, 26038.) 
 
The SACC alleges that Baranovskiy would use the Business’s
point-of-sale software and would mark the transactions as the sale of
“accessories” for $0.2 each but “in reality, these transactions were for
cannabis products” and Baranovskiy and his associates would retain the cash
from the sale for their own gains. (SACC, ¶¶ 26, 98, 111.) Accordingly, because
the sale was for cannabis products, IMA as the license holder was the rightful
owner of the monies Baranovskiy embezzled. 
The SACC further alleges that Baranovskiy and his associates would input
a fifty percent discount for a sale but charge the customer a full,
undiscounted price. (SACC, ¶¶ 100, 113.) Cross-Complainants fail to allege they
are the owners of the monies Baranovskiy pocketed from these fraudulent sales.
The SACC alleges that Baranovskiy and his associates deposited monies into an
ATM as part of their scheme, but the SACC fails to allege that Cross-Complaintants
are the rightful owners of the monies Baranovskiy deposited into the ATM. (SAC,
¶¶ 101, 114.) 
 
Without such facts, Cross-Complainants’ allegation that IMA and
Vinnitskaya received “Cross-Complainants’ property in the amount of
approximately $2,300,000” is unsupported by the allegations. (SACC, ¶¶ 103,
116.) Cross-Complainants specifically fail to allege they were the lawful
owners of the monies Baranovskiy and his associates embezzled. 
 
Accordingly, the demurrer to the fifth and sixth causes of action
is sustained without leave to amend. 
 
D.        Second and Third Causes of Action –
Negligent and Intentional Misrepresentation
“The
essential elements of a count for intentional misrepresentation are (1) a
misrepresentation, (2) knowledge of falsity, (3) intent to induce
reliance, (4) actual and justifiable reliance, and (5) resulting damage.
[Citations.] The essential elements of a count for negligent
misrepresentation are the same except that it does not require knowledge of
falsity but instead requires a misrepresentation of fact by a person who has no
reasonable grounds for believing it to be true. [Citations.] Each element of a
fraud count must be pleaded with particularity so as to apprise the defendant
of the specific grounds for the charge and enable the court to determine
whether there is any basis for the cause of action, although less specificity
is required if the defendant would likely have greater knowledge of the facts
than the plaintiff. [Citation.]”  (Chapman
v. Skype Inc. (2013) 220 Cal.App.4th 217, 230–231.) Negligent
misrepresentation requires that the party owe a duty to disclose. (See Goonewardene
v. ADP, LLC (2019) 6 Cal.5th 817, 841; Levine v. Blue Shield of
California (2010) 189 Cal.App.4th 1117, 1136.) 
 
The
second and third causes of action are premised on the fact that IMA and
Vinnitskaya represented to Cross-Complainants that it would enter a settlement
with CDTFA on the outstanding tax liabilities and that Cross-Complainants
should not make any tax payments. (SACC, ¶¶ 53, 66.) In June 2022, IMA
represented that it would execute the Amendment to reduce the monthly fee under
the Agreement. (SACC, ¶¶ 54, 67.)
 
Cross-Defendants
assert that the second and third causes of action are barred by the economic
loss doctrine. As explained by the California Supreme Court, “the
economic loss rule prevents the law of contract and the law of tort from
dissolving into the other.” (Robinson Helicopter Co., Inc. v. Dana Corp.
(2004) 34 Cal. 4th 979, 989.) “In general, there is no recovery in tort for
negligently inflicted ‘purely economic losses,’ meaning financial harm
unaccompanied by physical or property damage.” (Sheen v. Wells Fargo Bank, N.A.
(2022) 12 Cal.5th 905, 922.)
“[T]he rule functions to bar claims in
negligence for pure economic losses in deference to
a contract between litigating parties.” (Id. at p. 922.) 
 
The
court finds that Cross-Complainants’ second and third causes of action are
derivative of the first cause of action for breach of contract. Moreover,
Cross-Complainants’ opposition fails to explain why the second and third causes
of action are not barred by the economic loss doctrine.
 
The
demurrer to the second and third causes of action is sustained without leave to
amend. 
 
E.        Seventh, Eighth, and Ninth Causes of Action:
Intentional Interference with Contractual Relations; Intentional Interference
with Prospective Economic Relations, and Negligent Interference with Economic
Relations
 
“The
elements of a cause of action for intentional interference with contractual
relations are ‘(1) the existence of a valid contract between the plaintiff and
a third party; (2) the defendant’s knowledge of that contract; (3) the
defendant’s intentional acts designed to induce a breach or disruption of the
contractual relationship; (4)actual breach or disruption of the contractual
relationship; and (5) resulting damage.’ ” (Redfearn v. Trader Joe's Co.
(2018) 20 Cal.App.5th 989, 997, citing Reeves v. Hanlon(2004) 33 Cal.4th
1140, 1148.) 
 
The
tort of intentional interference with prospective economic relations is the
tort of intentional interference with prospective economic advantage. (See Della
Penna v. Toyota Motor Sales, U.S.A., Inc. (1995) 11 Cal.4th
376, 378 [Analyzing the burden of proof and the “the elements of the tort
variously known as interference with ‘prospective economic advantage,’
‘prospective contractual relations,’ or ‘prospective economic relations’[.]”].)  Subsequently, in Korea Supply Co. v. Lockheed
Martin Corp. (2003) 29 Cal.4th 1134, 1153 and Ixchel Pharma, LLC v. Biogen, Inc. (2020) 9 Cal.5th
1130, 1141, the California Supreme Court reiterated that the correct name of
the tort was intentional interference with prospective economic advantage. 
 
To state a claim for the
tort of intentional interference with prospective economic advantage (IIPEA),
the claimant must allege: (1) an economic relationship between the claimant and
some third party, with the probability of future economic benefit to the
claimant; (2) the defendant or cross-defendant’s knowledge of the relationship;
(3) intentional acts on the part of the defendant or cross-defendant designed
to disrupt the relationship; (4) actual disruption of the relationship; and (5)
economic harm to the claimant proximately caused by the acts of the
defendant.¿(Marsh v. Anesthesia Services Medical Group, Inc. (2011) 200
Cal.App.4th 480, 504.)
 
The
tort of negligent interference with a prospective economic advantage (“NIPEA”)
differs in that the defendant's act disrupting the economic relationship does
not need to be intentional. (Venhaus v. Shultz (2007) 155 Cal.App.4th
1072, 1078.) “The tort of negligent interference with economic
relationship arises only when the defendant owes the plaintiff a duty of care.”
(Stolz v. Wong Communications Limited Partnership (1994) 25 Cal.App.4th
1811, 1825 [italics original].)  For both IIPEA and NIPEA, the
interference must be wrongful by some legal measure other than the fact of the
interference itself. (Della Penna v. Toyota Motor Sales, U.S.A., Inc.
(1995) 11 Cal.4th 376, 378.) “[A]n act is independently wrongful if it is
unlawful, that is, if it is proscribed by some constitutional, statutory,
regulatory, common law, or other determinable legal standard.” (Korea Supply,
supra, 29 Cal.4th at p. 1159.)
 
Cross-Defendants IMA and Vinnitskaya
demurrer to the seventh, tenth, and ninth causes of action on the basis that
IMA cannot be charged with breaching its own contract. “Because a party to a
contract owes no tort duty to refrain from interference with its performance,
he or she cannot be bootstrapped into tort liability by the pejorative plea of
conspiracy.” (Applied Equipment Corp. v. Litton Saudi Arabia
Ltd. (1994) 7 Cal.4th 503, 514 (Applied Equipment).) “Conduct
amounting to a breach of contract becomes tortious only when it also violates
an independent duty arising from principles of tort law.” (Id. at p.
515.) 
 
Cross-Complainants
point out that the seventh, eighth, and ninth causes of action are alleged
against Vinnitskaya and Baranovskiy’s associates, not IMA. Therefore, the
interference claims are properly pled. Cross-Defendant Vinnitskaya asserts that
the agent immunity rule applies because she acted within the scope of her
employment when she allegedly represented to Cross-Complainants that there
would be a written amendment to reduce the monthly fee and not to pay taxes.
(SACC, ¶¶ 124, 134, 144.) 
 
The agent's immunity
rule emanates from a further holding in [Wise v. Southern Pac. Co. (1963) 223 Cal.App.2d 50] that: ‘Agents and employees of
a corporation cannot conspire with their corporate principal or employer where
they act in their official capacities on behalf of the corporation and not as
individuals for their individual advantage.’ [Citation.] The rule ‘derives from
the principle that ordinarily corporate agents and employees acting for or on
behalf of the corporation cannot be held liable for inducing a breach of the
corporation's contract since being in a confidential relationship to the
corporation their action in this respect is privileged.’ 
 
(Applied
Equipment, supra, 7 Cal.4th at p. 513, fn. 4.) “This immunity rule
and its exception (when an agent acts for his “own individual advantage”) are
based on the proposition that a corporation cannot conspire with itself—because
an agent or employee who is acting within the scope of his authority is (in the
eyes of the law) one and the same ‘person’ as the corporation.” (Everest Investors 8 v. Whitehall Real Estate Limited Partnership
XI (2002) 100 Cal.App.4th 1102, 1109.)
 
As the SACC alleges that Vinnitskaya
acted as an agent of IMA in inducing A&G to breach the Agreement, the
agent’s immunity rule applies and Vinnitskaya cannot be held liable for
breaching the contract between A&G and IMA. (SACC, ¶ 13.) 
 
Accordingly,
the demurrer to the seventh, eighth, and ninth causes of action is sustained
without leave to amend. 
 
F.        Fourth
– Breach of Implied Covenant of Good Faith 
 
“Every contract contains
an implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing providing that no party to
the contract will do anything that would deprive another party of the benefits
of the contract.¿The implied covenant protects the reasonable expectations of
the contracting parties based on their mutual promises.” (Digerati Holdings,
LLC v. Young Money Entertainment, LLC (2011) 194 Cal.App.4th 873, 885.)
“The covenant thus cannot ‘be endowed with an existence independent of its
contractual underpinnings.’ [Citation].” (Guz v. Bechtel Nat. Inc.(2000)
24 Cal.4th 317, 349.)   “[A]
tortious breach of contract … may be found when (1) the breach is accompanied
by a traditional common law tort, such as fraud or conversion; (2) the means
used to breach the contract are tortious, involving deceit or undue coercion;
or (3) one party intentionally breaches the contract intending or knowing that
such a breach will cause severe, unmitigable harm in the form of mental
anguish, personal hardship, or substantial consequential damages.” (Robinson Helicopter Co., Inc. v.
Dana Corp. (2004) 34 Cal.4th 979, 990.)
 
Cross-Defendants
allege that the fourth cause of action fails because the second and third
causes of action fail. In other words, no tort cause of action exists to
support a claim for Breach of the Implied Covenant and Fair Dealing. Cross-Complainants’
opposition attempts to anchor the fourth cause of action to fraudulent conduct
in violation of the Unfair Competition Law. However, Cross-Complainants fail to
cite case law to show that a claim for Breach of the Implied Covenant and Fair
Dealing can be anchored to a claim for breach of the UCL. 
 
More
importantly, the fourth cause of action is derivative of the first cause of
action for breach of contract because it is based on the same breach, breach of
Section 5.1(f) of the Agreement, and Vinnitskaya’s representations that the
amendment to reduce the monthly fee would be put in written and to not pay
taxes until there is a settlement negotiation with CDTFA. (SACC, ¶¶ 83, 81.)
“If the allegations do not go beyond the statement of a mere contract breach
and, relying on the same alleged acts, simply seek the same damages or other
relief already claimed in a companion contract cause of action, they may be
disregarded as superfluous as no additional claim is actually stated.”(Careau & Co. v. Security Pacific Business Credit, Inc. (1990) 222 Cal.App.3d 1371, 1395.) 
 
Based on the above, the demurrer to the fourth cause of action is
sustained without leave to amend. 
 
G.        Tenth
Causes of Action –Unfair Business Practices 
 
Business and Professions Code § 17200 (“UCL”) prohibits “any
unlawful, unfair or fraudulent business act or practice.” (Bus. &
Prof. Code, § 17200; see Clark v. Superior Court (2010) 50
Cal.4th 605, 610.) To plead this statutory claim, the pleadings must state with
reasonable particularity the facts supporting the statutory elements of the
violation. (Khoury v. Maly's of California, Inc. (1993) 14
Cal.App.4th 612, 619.)
 
“An unlawful business practice or act is an act or practice,
committed pursuant to business activity, that is at the same time forbidden by
law.” (Klein v. Earth Elements, Inc. (1997) 59 Cal.App.4th 965, 969.) “A
business practice is unfair within the meaning of the UCL if it violates
established public policy or if it is immoral, unethical, oppressive or
unscrupulous and causes injury to consumers which outweighs its benefits.” (McKell
v. Washington Mutual, Inc. (2006) 142 Cal.App.4th 1457, 1473.) Lastly, a
fraudulent business practice claims under section 17200 “is not based upon
proof of the common law tort of deceit or deception, but is instead premised on
whether the public is likely to be deceived.” (Pastoria v. Nationwide Ins.
(2003) 112 Cal.App.4th 1490, 1499.)
 
Cross-Defendants argue that the tenth cause of action fails
because it is derivative of Cross-Complainants’ other claims. “When a statutory claim fails, a derivative UCL claim also fails.”
(Aleksick v. 7-Eleven, Inc. (2012) 205 Cal.App.4th 1176, 1185.) “Thus, when the underlying
legal claim fails, so too will a derivative UCL claim.” (AMN Healthcare, Inc. v. Aya Healthcare Services, Inc. (2018) 28 Cal.App.5th 923,
950.)
 
The SACC alleges that due to Vinnitskaya’s representations about
the taxes and putting the amendment to the monthly fee in writing, “Cross-Defendants
have committed one or more acts of unfair competition, including but not
limited to fraudulent business practice, within the meaning of California
Business and Professional Code § 17200, et seq.’ (SACC, ¶ 160.) Cross-Complaints’ opposition merely asserts that
“Cross-Defendants acted fraudulently, which violates Business and Profession
Code § 17000.” (Opposition, at pp. 7:27-8:1.) 
 
Because
the demurrer to all causes of action, except for breach of contract, has been
sustained, Cross-Complainants’ derivative UCL claim also fails. Moreover, the court previously found that the tenth cause of action was not
pled with reasonable particularity and failed to show how Cross-Defendants
Vinnitskaya and IMA’s conduct was unlawful, unfair, or fraudulent under the
UCL. (Order 12/15/2023.) Here, the tenth
cause of action fails to allege how Vinnitskaya’s actions and IMA’s decision to
terminate the Agreement was an unlawful practice, was an unfair practice that
caused injury to consumers or was fraudulent in a manner that is likely to
deceive the public. 
 
The demurrer to the tenth cause of action is sustained without
leave to amend. 
 
I.         Eleventh
Cause of Action – Conspiracy
 
“[A]lleging the existence of a conspiracy
or aiding and abetting activity does not turn a garden-variety contract cause
of action [] into a derivative tort cause of action [].” (AMN Healthcare, Inc., supra,  28 Cal.App.5th at p. 949.) “Conspiracy is not
a cause of action, but a legal doctrine that imposes liability on persons who,
although not actually committing a tort themselves,  share with the immediate tortfeasors a common
plan or design in its perpetration.” (Applied Equipment, supra, 7
Cal.4th at pp. 510–511.) 
 
Cross-Defendants
demurrer to the eleventh cause of action on the basis that it is not a cause of
action but a mechanism to impose vicarious liability premised on a substantive
claim. (See Berg & Berg Enterprises, LLC v. Sherwood Partners, Inc.
(2005) 131 Cal.App.4th 802, 823.) The court agrees. 
 
The
demurrer to the eleventh cause of action is sustained without leave to amend. 
 
Conclusion
 
The demurrer to the first cause of
action is overruled. The demurrer to the second, third, fourth, fifth, sixth,
seventh, eighth, ninth, tenth, and eleventh cause of action is sustained
without leave to amend. Cross-Defendants to provide notice. 


