


[1]
Pursuant to CCP § 430.41, the meet and confer
requirement has been met. (Roger Decl. ¶ 2, Ex. A.) 

***********************************************************************************************************************CASE NAME:                        Infinity Medical Alliance, Inc.
v. A&G Management Services, Inc., et al.
MOVING PARTY:                 Cross-Defendants Nixpro Inc,
Nikita Baranovskiy, Jonathan Bohun 
OPPOSING PARTY:             Cross-Complainants A&G Management
Service, Inc. and Aram Sharnazyan
TRIAL DATE:                        Not Set
PROOF OF SERVICE:           OK

                                                                                                                                                            

PROCEEDING:                      Demurrer to Second Amended Cross-Complaint
OPPOSITION:                        11 June 2024
REPLY:                                  18
June 2024
 
TENTATIVE:                         The Nixpro Cross-Defendants’ demurrer to the
SACC is sustained with leave to amend as to the second, third, fifth, sixth,
seventh, eighth, and ninth causes of action. The demurrer is sustained without
leave to amend as to the tenth and eleventh cause of action. Plaintiff is
granted 30 days leave to amend. The court sets the OSC RE: Amended Complaint
for _, at 8:30 a.m. Cross-Defendants to give notice.

                                                                                                                                                            

 
Background
 
On July 3, 2023, Infinity Medical
Alliance, Inc. (“Plaintiff” or “IMA”) filed a Complaint against A&G
Management Services, Inc. (“A&G”); Aram Sharnazyan (“Sharnazyan”); and Does
1 to 50.  
 
The
Complaint alleges four causes of action: (1) Breach of Contract, (2)
Declaratory Relief, (3) Trespass-Monetary and Injunctive Relief; and (4)
Conversion.  
 
On
August 7, 2023, Defendants A&G and Sharnazyan filed a Cross-Complaint
(“CC”) against IMA, Larisa Vinnitskaya; Nikita Baranovskiy, Nixpro Inc.;
Konstantin Khlevnoy, Johnathan M. Quick, Jonathan Bohun, and Roes 1 to
50.  
 
Cross-Defendants IMA
and Larisa Vinnitskaya (“Vinnitskaya”) demurred to the Cross-Complaint (“CC”).
On December 15, 2023, the court sustained the demurrer to the Cross-Complaint
with leave to amend.  
 
On March 21, 2024,
Cross-Complainants filed the operative Second Amended Cross-Complaint (“SACC”)
alleging eleven causes of action
:  
1)    
Breach
of Contract – against IMA and Roes 1 to 50; 
2)    
Intentional
Misrepresentation – against all Cross-Defendants;  
3)    
Negligent
Misrepresentation – against all Cross-Defendants;  
4)    
Breach
of Implied Covenant of Good Faith and Fair Dealing – against IMA and Roes 1 to
50;  
5)    
Receipt
of Stolen Property (Penal Code § 496(c)) – against all
Cross-Defendants;  
6)    
Conversion,
against all Cross-Defendants;  
7)    
Intentional
Interference with Contractual Relations - against Vinnitskaya, Baranovskiy,
Nixpro, Khlevnoy, Quick, Tran, and Bohun;  
8)    
Intentional
Interference with Prospective Economic Relations – against Baranovskiy, Nixpro,
Khlevnoy, Quick, Tran, and Bohun; 
9)    
Negligent
Interference with Prospective Economic Relations- against Baranovskiy, Nixpro,
Khlevnoy, Quick, Tran, and Bohun; 
10) Unfair Business Practices (Bus. &
Prof. Code § 17200, et seq.)- against IMA, Vinnitskaya, Baranovskiy, and
Nixpro; and 
11) Conspiracy – against all
Cross-Defendants 
 
Cross-Defendants Nixpro
Inc. (“Nixpro”), Nikita Baranovskiy (“Baranovskiy”) and Jonathan Bohun
(“Bohun”) (collectively “Nixpro Cross-Defendants”) now demur to SACC.
Cross-Complainants oppose the demurrer. The matter is now before the
court.   
 
Discussion
 
I.         Legal Standard
 
Where pleadings are defective, a party may raise the defect
by way of a demurrer. (Coyne v. Krempels (1950) 36 Cal.2d 257, 262.) A
demurrer tests the sufficiency of a pleading, and the grounds for a demurrer
must appear on the face of the pleading or from judicially noticeable matters.¿
(CCP, § 430.30(a); Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311, 318.) In
evaluating a demurrer, the court accepts the complainant’s properly pled facts
as true and ignores contentions, deductions, and conclusory statements. (Daar
v. Yellow Cab Co. (1976) 67 Cal.2d 695, 713; Serrano v. Priest (1971)
5 Cal.3d 584, 591.) Moreover, the court does not consider whether a plaintiff
will be able to prove the allegations or the possible difficulty in making such
proof. (Fisher v. San Pedro Peninsula Hospital (1989) 214 Cal.App.3d
590, 604.) 
Leave to amend must be allowed
where there is a reasonable possibility of successful amendment. (Goodman v.
Kennedy (1976) 18 Cal.3d 335, 348.)¿ The burden is on the complainant to
show the Court that a pleading can be amended successfully. (Ibid.)
 
II.        Demurrer[1]
 
A.        Summary
of Allegations in SACC 
 
Cross-Defendant
Infinity Medical Alliance, Inc. (“IMA”) is the holder of an adult-use and
cannabis business license and is the owner of a cannabis business located in
Torrence, CA (the “Business”). (SACC, ¶¶ 4, 16.) Larisa Vinnitskaya
(“Vinnitskaya”) is the Chief Executive Officer of IMA. (SACC, ¶ 5.)
Cross-complainant Aram Sharnazyan (“Sharnazyan”) owns and operates A&G
Management Services, Inc. (“A&G”). (SACC, ¶¶ 1, 2, 17.) On or about
September 25, 2019, IMA and A&G entered into an agreement (the “Agreement”)
wherein A&G would be the exclusive manager and operator of the Business.
(SACC, ¶ 18, Ex. 1.)  
 
i.          Cross-Complainants’ Relationship
with IMA  
 
Under
the Agreement, A&G would pay IMA a fixed monthly fee of $60,000. (SACC, ¶
18, Ex. 1, § 3.3.) However, IMA asserts that in June 2022, there was a
modification to only pay $45,000 for a year in consideration for A&G’s
incurred costs for electrical system upgrades made to the business. (SACC, 32.)
IMA drafted an amendment to reflect the reduced monthly fee (the “Amendment”),
which A&G signed and returned to IMA on or about June 28, 2022. (SACC, ¶
32, Ex. 2.) Cross-Complainants assert that IMA accepted the reduced monthly fee
for nearly a year without dispute, thus accepting, confirming, and ratifying
the adoption of the Amendment. (SACC, ¶ 32.)  
 
In
April 2022, A&G discovered that the Business had various delinquent tax
liabilities going back to 2012 when A&G had not yet entered into the
Agreement. (SACC, ¶ 31.) A&G asserts it was willing and ready to make
payments to the California Department of Tax and Fee Administration (“CDTFA”)
but Vinnitskaya, on behalf of IMA, instructed A&G not to pay the tax
liabilities until AMA could settle with CDTFA. (SACC, ¶ 31.)  
 
ii.         Cross-Complainants’ Relationship
with Baranovskiy and the other Cross-Defendants
 
In
June 2022, A&G hired Nikita Baranovskiy (“Baranovskiy”) to assist with the
Business’ day-to-day operations. (SACC, ¶ 20.) Baranovskiy
is the Chief Executive Officer of Nixpro, Inc.. (SACC, ¶ 6.) Baranovskiy in
turn hired his associates “Khlevnoy, Quick, Tran, and Bohun as personnel to
manage the Business’s day-to-day operations.” (SAC, ¶ 21.) In January 2023,
Baranovskiy deposited monies from the cash registers into a bank account
belonging to him and/or Nixpro Inc. in violation of A&G’s instruction to
deposit all monies into IMA’s bank account. (SACC, ¶ 23.) In March 2023,
A&G’s accountant discovered Baranovskiy’s scheme to embezzle the Business’s
profits. (SACC, ¶¶ 25, 28.) In June 2023, A&G terminated the partnership
with Baranovskiy and his associates. (SACC, ¶ 30.)  
 
Cross-Complainants
assert that the reduced monthly fee and taxes were never an issue between IMA
and A&G until A&G terminated Baranovskiy. (SACC, ¶¶ 33.) In June 2023,
IMA alleged A&G breached the Agreement due to nonpayment of taxes and the reduced
monthly fee. (SACC, ¶ 34.) On or about July 4, 2023, Cross-Complainants vacated
the premises of the Business and ceased all activities regarding the Business
or IMA.  Cross-Complainants asserts that all Cross-Defendants are
agents of each other and “conspired to embezzle funds from the Business under
A&G’s management for their, own gains” and “conspired to perpetrate a
scheme against Cross-Complainants to fraudulently induce a breach of the
Agreement.” (SACC, ¶ 39.) 
 
The Nixpro Cross-Defendants now demurrer to the second, third, fifth, sixth, seventh,
eighth, ninth, tenth, and eleventh causes of action in the SACC. 
 
B.        Second and Third Causes of Action – Negligent
and Intentional Misrepresentation 
 
“The
essential elements of a count for intentional misrepresentation are (1) a
misrepresentation, (2) knowledge of falsity, (3) intent to induce
reliance, (4) actual and justifiable reliance, and (5) resulting damage.
[Citations.] The essential elements of a count for negligent
misrepresentation are the same except that it does not require knowledge of
falsity but instead requires a misrepresentation of fact by a person who has no
reasonable grounds for believing it to be true. [Citations.] Each element of a
fraud count must be pleaded with particularity so as to apprise the defendant
of the specific grounds for the charge and enable the court to determine
whether there is any basis for the cause of action, although less specificity
is required if the defendant would likely have greater knowledge of the facts
than the plaintiff. [Citation.]”  (Chapman v. Skype Inc. (2013)
220 Cal.App.4th 217, 230–231.) Negligent misrepresentation requires that the
party owe a duty to disclose. (See Goonewardene v. ADP, LLC (2019) 6
Cal.5th 817, 841; Levine v. Blue Shield of California (2010) 189
Cal.App.4th 1117, 1136.)  
 
The
SACC alleges the Nixpro Cross-Defendants along with the Cross-Defendants
“Quick, Tran and Bohun represented to Cross-Complainants that they would
operate the Business in a diligent and honest manner on behalf of
Cross-Complainants and for Cross-Complainants’ benefit” including depositing
the monies into the correct accounts as instructed by Cross-Complainants.
(SACC, ¶¶ 55, 68.) Instead, Cross-Defendants conspired to embezzle money from
the Business and induce Cross-Complainants to breach the Agreement. (SACC, ¶¶
56, 69.) 
 
The Nixpro
Cross-Defendants demur to the second and third causes of action on the bases
that no actional misrepresentation is alleged with the requisite specificity and
there are no factual allegations showing reliance or causation. “In California,
fraud must be pled specifically; general and conclusory allegations do not
suffice.” (Lazar v. Superior Court (1996) 12 Cal.4th 631, 645.)
“Causes of action for intentional and negligent misrepresentation sound in
fraud and, therefore, each element must be pleaded with specificity. (Daniels
v. Select Portfolio Servicing, Inc. (2016) 246 Cal.App.4th 1150, 1166
disapproved on other grounds by Sheen v. Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. (2022)
12 Cal.5th 905.) Specificity “necessitates pleading facts which show how, when,
where, to whom, and by what means the representations were tendered.” (Lazar,
at p. 631.) 
 
The
SACC fails to allege who, when, and by what means the Nixpro Cross-Defendants represented
to Cross-Complainants that it would operate the Business in a “diligent and
honest manner.” (SACC, ¶¶ 22, 55, 68.) Instead, the SACC alleges in a
conclusory manner that such representation was made “at all relevant times.”
(SACC, ¶¶ 22, 55, 68.) The SACC also fails to allege specific facts as to how the
Nixpro Cross-Defendants induced Cross-Complainants to breach the Agreement
since the SACC fails to allege that discrepancies in accounting led to IMA
terminating the Agreement. 
 
The SACC alleges that Vinnitskaya’s
representations about accepting a reduced monthly fee and to not pay taxes were
the reasons IMA terminated the Agreement. The SACC does not allege that Nixpro Cross-Defendants’
embezzlement of funds was the reason IMA decided to terminate the Agreement.
“If the defrauded plaintiff would have suffered the alleged damage even in the
absence of the fraudulent inducement, causation cannot be alleged
and a fraud cause of action cannot be sustained.” (Beckwith v. Dahl
(2012) 205 Cal.App.4th 1039, 1064.) In other words, the SACC fails to allege
that but for the Nixpro Cross-Defendants’ representation, the Agreement would
not have been terminated. 
 
The
demurrer to the second and third causes of action is sustained with leave to
amend. 
 
C.         Fifth and Sixth Causes of Action – Receipt
of Stolen Property (Penal Code, § 496(c)) and Conversion
 
Penal
Code § 496(a) states in relevant part:  
 
Every person who buys
or receives any property that has been stolen or that has been obtained in any
manner constituting theft or extortion, knowing the property to be so stolen or
obtained, or who conceals, sells, withholds, or aids in concealing, selling, or
withholding any property from the owner, knowing the property to be so stolen
or obtained, shall be punished by imprisonment in a county jail for not more
than one year, or imprisonment pursuant to subdivision (h) of Section
1170. 
 
(Id.
[italics added].) 
 
To plead a cause of action for conversion, one
must allege (1) the plaintiff’s ownership or right to possession of personal
property; (2) defendant’s disposition of the property inconsistent with
plaintiff’s rights; and (3) resulting damages. (Fremont Indemnity Co. v.
Fremont General Corp. (2007) 148 Cal.App.4th 97, 119.)¿ 
 
The
Nixpro Cross-Defendants demur to the fifth cause of action on the basis that
Cross-Complainants lack standing as they had no legal right to the monies
allegedly embezzled. The Nixpro Cross-Defendants demur to the sixth
cause of action on the bases that Cross-Complainants had no ownership or right
of possession and therefore cannot show Cross-Defendants disposed of the monies
in a manner inconsistent with Cross-Complainants’ property rights. 
 
The
SACC alleges that “Cross-Complainants had a right to possess all profits,
funds, and monies pursuant” to Section 3.3 of the Agreement, which provides: 
 
Section 3.3 Company
Activities: [] Manager may, in its sole discretion, perform certain
activities at Company’s request, including, without limitation, distribution
activities under the Cannabis Licenses (the “Company Activities”). All revenues
generated from the sales of goods and/or services in connection with Company
Activities shall be excluded from both the Project and the calculation of Gross
Revenues under this Agreement. The Company Activities shall not interfere in
any manner with Manager’s business activities or any other valid activities on
the Leased Premises, which continued uncured interference by Company shall
constitute a material breach of this Agreement.
 
(SACC,
¶¶ 94, 95, Ex. 1, § 3.3)
 
While the fifth cause of action alleges
that Cross-Complainants have the right of possession, it does not allege that
they are the legal owners of the monies, accordingly the demurrer to the fifth
cause of action is sustained without leave to amend. 
 
Moreover,
the SACC fails to explain how the fact that the revenue generated by the
Business is excluded from the Project and Gross-Revenue under section 3.3 of
the Agreement legally operates to give Cross-Complainants a possessory right to
the revenue. Section 3.3 states that the Manager may perform distribution
activities and other activities “at Companies request, without
limitation, distribution activities under the Cannabis License [.]” (SACC, ¶¶
94, 95, Ex. 1, § 3.3 [italics added].)
 
Cross-Complainants
do not allege that IMA requested that they take possession of the monies from
the cannabis sale or that such an instruction was permitted under the Cannabis
License. The Nixpro Cross-Defendants assert that IMA as the holder of the
cannabis license is the only entity with ownership and a possessory right to
any revenue because legally it is the only entity that can accept ownership or
possession of the cash paid by consumers for licensed cannabis products. (Bus.
& Prof. Code, §§ 26031.5, 26038; LAMC Code, §§ 105.06(a), 104.21(e).) 
 
Cross-Complainants’
opposition does not address the fact that they may not legally own or take
possession of the monies generated from the sale of licensed cannabis products.
Accordingly, the demurrer to the sixth cause of action is sustained without
leave to amend. 
 
D.        Seventh, Eighth, and
Ninth Causes of Action: Intentional Interference with Contractual Relations;
Intentional Interference with Prospective Economic Relations, and Negligent
Interference with Economic Relations 
 
“The
elements of a cause of action for intentional interference with contractual
relations are ‘(1) the existence of a valid contract between the plaintiff and
a third party; (2) the defendant’s knowledge of that contract; (3) the
defendant’s intentional acts designed to induce a breach or disruption of the
contractual relationship; (4) actual breach or disruption of the contractual
relationship; and (5) resulting damage.’ ” (Redfearn v. Trader Joe's Co.
(2018) 20 Cal.App.5th 989, 997, citing Reeves v. Hanlon (2004) 33
Cal.4th 1140, 1148.)¿ 
 
The
tort of intentional interference with prospective economic relations is the
tort of intentional interference with prospective economic advantage. (See Della
Penna v. Toyota Motor Sales, U.S.A., Inc. (1995) 11 Cal.4th 376, 378
[Analyzing the burden of proof and the “the elements of the tort variously
known as interference with ‘prospective economic advantage,’ ‘prospective
contractual relations,’ or ‘prospective economic relations’[.]”].)  Subsequently,
in Korea Supply Co. v. Lockheed Martin Corp. (2003) 29 Cal.4th 1134,
1153 and Ixchel Pharma, LLC v. Biogen, Inc. (2020) 9 Cal.5th 1130, 1141,
the California Supreme Court reiterated that the correct name of the tort was
intentional interference with prospective economic advantage.  
 
To state a claim for the
tort of intentional interference with prospective economic advantage (IIPEA),
the claimant must allege: (1) an economic relationship between the claimant and
some third party, with the probability of future economic benefit to the
claimant; (2) the defendant or cross-defendant’s knowledge of the relationship;
(3) intentional acts on the part of the defendant or cross-defendant designed
to disrupt the relationship; (4) actual disruption of the relationship; and (5)
economic harm to the claimant proximately caused by the acts of the
defendant.¿(Marsh v. Anesthesia Services Medical Group, Inc. (2011) 200
Cal.App.4th 480, 504.) 
 
The
tort of negligent interference with a prospective economic advantage (“NIPEA”)
differs in that the defendant's act disrupting the economic relationship does
not need to be intentional. (Venhaus v. Shultz (2007) 155 Cal.App.4th
1072, 1078.) “The tort of negligent interference with economic
relationship arises only when the defendant owes the plaintiff a duty of care.”
(Stolz v. Wong Communications Limited Partnership (1994) 25 Cal.App.4th
1811, 1825 [italics original].) ¿For both IIPEA and NIPEA, the interference
must be wrongful by some legal measure other than the fact of the interference
itself. (Della Penna v. Toyota Motor Sales, U.S.A., Inc. (1995) 11
Cal.4th 376, 378.) “[A]n act is independently wrongful if it is unlawful, that
is, if it is proscribed by some constitutional, statutory, regulatory, common
law, or other determinable legal standard.” (Korea Supply, supra,
29 Cal.4th at p. 1159.) 
 
The
Nixpro Cross-Defendants demur to the seventh, eighth, and ninth cause of action
on the basis that the Cross-Complainants fail to allege facts showing
causation. 
 
The
court finds that the SACC fails to allege that the Nixpro Cross-Defendants'
alleged embezzlement scheme caused A&G to terminate the Agreement or how
such conduct caused Cross-Complainants to breach the Agreement themselves. As
pled, the SACC alleges that Cross-Complaints breached their own contract
due to Cross-Defendants’ inducement: 
 
Cross-Complainants,
upon information and belief, and thereupon allege that Vinnitskaya,
Baranovskiy, Nixpro, Khlevnoy, Quick, Tran, and Bohun conspired to perpetrate a
scheme against Cross-Complainants to fraudulently induce a breach of the
Agreement. Cross-Complainants, upon information and belief, and thereupon
allege that Vinnitskaya, Baranovskiy, Nixpro, Khlevnoy, Quick, Tran, and Bohun
deceived, defrauded, and conspired against A&G to induce an early
termination of the Agreement whereby IMA and Baranovskiy would then be free to
form a business relationship together. 
 
(SACC,
¶¶ 126, 136, 146.) “Because a party to a contract
owes no tort duty to refrain from interference with its performance, he or she
cannot be bootstrapped into tort liability by the pejorative plea of
conspiracy.” (Applied Equipment Corp. v. Litton Saudi Arabia Ltd. (1994)
7 Cal.4th 503, 514. In other words, the disruption of the contractual or
economic relationship must be intentionally caused by the Nixpro
Cross-Defendants’ conduct rather than
Cross-Complaints. Lastly, the SACC fails to show that Cross-Complainants’
economic relationship with the Business Consumers existed separate and apart
from the Agreement such that Cross-Complainants had a separate and distinct
economic relationship protected under IIEPA and NIPEA. 
 
Based
on the above, the demurrer to the seventh, eighth, and ninth cause of action is
sustained with leave to amend. 
 
E.        Tenth Causes of Action –Unfair
Business Practices  
 
Business and Professions Code § 17200 (“UCL”) prohibits “any
unlawful, unfair or fraudulent business act or practice.”¿(Bus. & Prof.
Code, § 17200;¿see Clark v. Superior Court¿(2010) 50 Cal.4th 605, 610.)
To plead this statutory claim, the pleadings must state with reasonable
particularity the facts supporting the statutory elements of the violation. (Khoury
v. Maly's of California, Inc.¿(1993) 14 Cal.App.4th 612, 619.) 
 
“An unlawful business practice or act is an act or practice,
committed pursuant to business activity, that is at the same time forbidden by
law.” (Klein v. Earth Elements, Inc. (1997) 59 Cal.App.4th 965, 969.) “A
business practice is unfair within the meaning of the UCL if it violates
established public policy or if it is immoral, unethical, oppressive or
unscrupulous and causes injury to consumers which outweighs its benefits.” (McKell
v. Washington Mutual, Inc. (2006) 142 Cal.App.4th 1457, 1473.) Lastly, a
fraudulent business practice claims under section 17200 “is not based upon
proof of the common law tort of deceit or deception, but is instead premised on
whether the public is likely to be deceived.” (Pastoria v. Nationwide Ins.
(2003) 112 Cal.App.4th 1490, 1499.) 
 
Cross-Defendants argue
that the tenth cause of action fails because it is derivative of
Cross-Complainants’ other claims. “When a statutory claim fails, a derivative
UCL claim also fails.” (Aleksick v. 7-Eleven, Inc. (2012) 205
Cal.App.4th 1176, 1185.) “Thus, when the underlying legal claim fails, so too
will a derivative UCL claim.” (AMN Healthcare, Inc. v. Aya Healthcare
Services, Inc. (2018) 28 Cal.App.5th 923, 950.) 
 
The Nixpro Cross-Defendants’ demurrer has been sustained as to all
causes of action alleged against them such that the derivative UCL claim also
fails. Cross-Complainants’ opposition argues that Cross-Defendants breached the
fourth cause of action for breach of the implied duty of good faith and fair
dealing, but the fourth cause of action is not alleged only against
Cross-Defendant IMA. (Opposition, at p. 8:3-8.) Moreover, the court previously found that the tenth cause of action
was not pled with reasonable particularity and failed to show how the Nixpro
Cross-Defendants’ conduct was unlawful, unfair, or fraudulent under the UCL.
(Order 12/15/2023.) Here, the tenth cause of action fails to allege how the
Nixpro Cross-Defendants’ scheme to embezzle monies was an unlawful practice or
an unfair practice that caused injury to consumers or was fraudulent in a
manner that is likely to deceive the public.  
 
Accordingly, the demurrer to the tenth cause of action is
sustained without leave to amend.  
 
F.        Eleventh Cause of Action –
Conspiracy 
 
“[A]lleging the
existence of a conspiracy or aiding and abetting activity does not turn a
garden-variety contract cause of action [] into a derivative tort cause of
action [].” (AMN Healthcare, Inc., supra, 28 Cal.App.5th
at p. 949.) “Conspiracy is not a cause of action, but a legal doctrine that
imposes liability on persons who, although not actually committing a tort themselves,
share with the immediate tortfeasors a common plan or design in its
perpetration.” (Applied Equipment, supra, 7 Cal.4th at pp.
510–511.)  
 
The
Nixpro Cross-Defendants demur to the eleventh cause of action on the basis that
it is not a cause of action but a mechanism to impose vicarious liability
premised on a substantive claim. (See Berg & Berg Enterprises, LLC v.
Sherwood Partners, Inc. (2005) 131 Cal.App.4th 802, 823.) The court agrees.

 
The
demurrer to the eleventh cause of action is sustained without leave to
amend.  
 
Conclusion
 
The Nixpro Cross-Defendants’
demurrer to the SACC is sustained with leave to amend as to the second, third,
fifth, sixth, seventh, eighth, and ninth causes of action. The demurrer is
sustained without leave to amend as to the tenth and eleventh cause of action. Plaintiff
is granted 30 days leave to amend. The court sets the OSC RE: Amended Complaint
for _, at 8:30 a.m. Cross-Defendants to give notice.
 
 


