  Case Number:  22TRCV01184    Hearing Date:   October 30, 2023    Dept:  M Motion to Be Relieved
as Counsel
 
The court considered the moving
papers.
RULING
The motion is CONTINUED to
__________ to allow moving counsel to give notice of the hearing date,
including to defense counsel.  See Notice
of Change of Firm Name and Eservice Email Address filed on July 6, 2023.  Also, counsel is to submit a properly filled
out proposed order.
BACKGROUND
On November 8, 2022, plaintiff Mia
Morgan White filed a complaint against defendant Coty Spence for motor vehicle
negligence and general negligence.
On January 31, 2023, defendant an answer.
LEGAL STANDARD
The court has discretion to allow
an attorney to withdraw, and such a motion should be granted provided that
there is no prejudice to the client and it does not disrupt the orderly process
of justice.  See Ramirez v. Sturdevant (1994) 21 Cal. App. 4th 904, 915; People v. Prince (1968) 268 Cal. App. 2d
398.
CRC Rule 3.1362 (Motion to Be
Relieved as Counsel) requires (1) notice of motion and motion to be directed to
the client (made on the Notice of Motion and Motion to be Relieved as
Counsel—Civil form (MC-051)); (2) a declaration stating in general terms and
without compromising the confidentiality of the attorney-client relationship
why a motion under Code of Civil Procedure section 284(2) is brought instead of
filing a consent under Code of Civil Procedure section 284(1) (made on the
Declaration in Support of Attorney's Motion to Be Relieved as Counsel—Civil
form (MC-052)); (3) service of the notice of motion and motion and declaration
on all other parties who have appeared in the case; and (4) the proposed order
relieving counsel (prepared on the Order Granting Attorney's Motion to Be
Relieved as Counsel—Civil form (MC-053)).
DISCUSSION
            Plaintiff Mia Morgan White’s attorney
of record, Alex Valenzuela, seeks to be relieved as counsel.
            Counsel Valenzuela explains in his
declaration that there has been an irreconcilable breakdown of the
attorney-client relationship.
            The court notes that the original
hearing was scheduled for September 7, 2023. 
On that date, the court was unavailable and the hearing was continued to
October 30, 2023.  Counsel was ordered to
give notice.
            There is no proof of service filed
as to the continued hearing date. 
            Also, after further review, the
court notes that the motion seeks to relieve only Alex Valenzuela but there are
two attorneys on the caption of the complaint—Alex Valenzuela and Joseph H.
Elias.  The motion caption lists
Valenzuela and Samuel Dordulian of the Dordulian Law Group.
            The court also notes that defense
counsel filed a notice of change of firm name and eservice email address on
July 6, 2023, before the motion was filed on August 14, 2023 but that moving
counsel served defense counsel at the old firm name and email address.
            The proposed order is not filled
out.
The motion is thus CONTINUED to
allow moving counsel to give notice of the hearing date and to submit a
properly filled out proposed order.
Moving counsel is ordered to give
notice of this ruling.  