 Case Number:  23STCV26165    Hearing Date:   March 6, 2024    Dept:  37 HEARING DATE:                 Wednesday, March 6, 2024
CASE NUMBER:                   23STCV26165
CASE NAME:                        Maria Camas Chavez v. Otilia Jimenez, as Trustee of the Otilia Luna
Trust, et al. 
MOVING PARTY:                 Otilia Luna Jimenez,
as trustee of the Otilia Luna Trust; Alfonso Luna, as trustee of the Otilia
Luna Trust.
OPPOSING PARTY:             Plaintiffs Maria Camas Chavez, Hermenegildo Mendez Chale, Landi Mendez,
Jose Antonio Noh Ake, Jenny Del Carmen Mendez, Daisy Evelyn Mendez a minor by
and through her guardian ad litem, Landi Mendez; and Dylan Antonio Noh a minor
by and her his guardian ad litem, Lani Mendez
TRIAL DATE:                        Not Set. 
PROOF OF SERVICE:           OK

                                                                                                                                                            

PROCEEDING:                      Demurrer to Complaint with
Motion to Strike
OPPOSITION:                        15 February 2024
REPLY:                                  None
filed. 
 
TENTATIVE:                         Defendants’ demurrer to the Complaint is
overruled as to the first, second, and third causes of action and sustained
with leave to amend as to the fourth cause of action for breach of contract.
The motion to strike is denied. Plaintiffs are granted 30 days leave to amend.
OSC re: Amended Complaint set for __. 

                                                                                                                                                            

 
Background
 
On October 26, 2023, Maria Camas Chavez,
Hermenegildo Mendez Chale, Landi Mendez, Jose Antonio Noh Ake, Jenny Del Carmen
Mendez, Daisy Evelyn Mendez a minor by and through her guardian ad litem, Landi
Mendez; and Dylan Antonio Noh a minor by and her his guardian ad litem, Lani
Mendez (collectively “Plaintiffs”) filed A Complaint against Otilia Luna
Jimenez, as trustee of the Otilia Luna Trust; Alfonso Luna, as trustee of the
Otilia Luna Trust (collectively “Defendants”); and Does 1 to 50. 
 
The operative Complaint alleges four
causes of action for (1) breach of warranty of habitability, (2) breach of
covenant of quiet enjoyment, (3) negligence, and (4) breach of contract. 
 
On January 18, 2024, Defendants in pro
per, filed a demurrer to Plaintiff’s Complaint. On January 29, 2024, Defendants
filed a motion to strike the Complaint. Plaintiffs filed opposing papers on
February 15, 2024. No reply has been filed. 
 
Demurrer
 
I.         Legal Standard
 
A.        Demurrer 
 
A demurrer is an
objection to a pleading, the grounds for which are apparent from either the
face of the complaint or a matter of which the court may take judicial notice.
(CCP § 430.30(a); see also Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311, 318.)¿“To
survive a demurrer, the complaint need only allege facts sufficient to state a
cause of action; each evidentiary fact that might eventually form part of the
plaintiff’s proof need not be alleged.”¿(C.A. v. William S. Hart Union High
School Dist. (2012) 53 Cal.4th 861, 872.)¿For the purpose of
testing the sufficiency of the cause of action, the demurrer admits the truth
of all material facts properly pleaded.¿ (Aubry v. Tri-City Hospital Dist. (1992)
2 Cal.4th 962, 966-967.)¿A demurrer “does not admit contentions, deductions or
conclusions of fact or law.”¿(Daar v. Yellow Cab Co. (1967) 67
Cal.2d 695, 713.)¿¿ 
 
B.        Motion to Strike 
 
¿Any party, within the time allowed to respond to a pleading
may serve and file a notice of motion to strike the whole or any part thereof.
(CCP § 435(b)(1); CRC, rule 3.1322(b).) The court may, upon a motion or at any
time in its discretion and upon terms it deems proper: (1) strike out any
irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted in any pleading; or (2) strike
out all or any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity with the
laws of California, a court rule, or an order of the court. (CCP § 436(a)-(b); Stafford
v. Shultz (1954) 42 Cal.2d 767, 782 [“Matter in a pleading which is not
essential to the claim is surplusage; probative facts are surplusage and may be
stricken out or disregarded”].)¿¿¿¿ 
 
C.        Leave to Amend 
 
“Where the defect
raised by a motion to strike or by demurrer is reasonably capable of cure,
leave to amend is routinely and liberally granted to give the plaintiff a
chance to cure the defect in question.” (CLD Construction, Inc. v. City of
San Ramon (2004) 120 Cal.App.4th 1141, 1146.) The burden is on the
complainant to show the Court that a pleading can be amended successfully. (Goodman
v. Kennedy (1976) 18 Cal.3d 335, 348.)¿¿¿
 
II.        Discussion
 
The court notes that Defendants have
failed to comply with the mandatory requirements of CCP §§ 430.41 and section
435.5(a) which requires the parties to meet and confer before filing a demurrer
or motion to strike. “Any determination by the court that the meet and confer
process was insufficient shall not be grounds to overrule or sustain a
demurrer.” (CCP § 430.41(a)(4).) As the failure to meet and confer does not
constitute grounds to overrule a demurrer, the court continues to the merits.
 
Defendants single page demurrer as
follows: 
 
A.        Breach
of Warranty of Habitability
 
Defendants
argue that Plaintiffs’ allegations are false because Defendant Otilia Luna
fixed everything that needed to be fixed and around the property such that this
action is an extortion. 
 
Whether
Defendants fixed everything that needed to be fixed, is a disputed question of
fact not subject to demurrer. (See Fuhrman v. California Satellite Systems
(1986) 179 Cal.App.3d 408, 422.) Accordingly, the demurrer to this cause of
action is overruled. 
 
B.        Breach
of the Covenant of Quiet Enjoyment 
 
Defendants
assert that they “feel that Plaintiffs have brought these frivolous actions
against defendants to shake the defendants down for some cash which is
extortion.” (Demurrer, at p. 3:8:10.) 
 
"Whether
the plaintiff will be able to prove the pleaded facts is irrelevant to ruling
upon the demurrer." (Stevens v. Superior Court (1986) 180
Cal.App.3d 605, 609–610.) At the pleading stage, the court is not concerned
whether Plaintiff will be able to prove their claims, rather the court looks to
see if the Complaint pleads a viable cause of action. As Defendants fail to
show that the claim for breach of the covenant of quiet enjoyment is improperly
pled, the demurrer as this cause of action is overruled. 
 
C.        Negligence
 
Defendants
allege the negligence cause of action is extortion because Defendant Otilia
Luna has fixed everything that need to be fixed and Defendant Otilia Luna
“alleges that it is Plaintiffs who refuse to allow defendant Otilia Luna in the
property to fix what they the Plaintiffs have complaint [sic] about.”
(Demurrer, at p. 3:13-15.) 
 
As
stated above, whether Defendants have fixed all issues with the property and
whether Plaintiffs have prevented Defendants from fixing all the issues are
questions of fact not subject to demurrer. Accordingly, the demurrer is
overruled as the negligence cause of action. 
 
D.        Breach
of Contract
 
Defendants
allege that they only have a rental agreement with Plaintiff Hermenegildo
Mendez Chale. Whether this assertion is true remains a disputed question of
fact not subject to demurrer as the Complaint alleges that “Plaintiffs entered
into a residential lease agreement with Defendants” that set “forth the
parties, date, monthly, payment amount, and certain other terms.” (Compl. ¶
77.) However, when a breach of written contract claim is alleged “the terms [of
the contract] must be set out verbatim in the body of the complaint or a copy
of the written instrument must be attached and incorporated by reference.” (Otworth
v. Southern Pac. Transportation Co. (1985) 166 Cal.App.3d 452, 459
[internal citations omitted].) 
 
As
Plaintiffs failed to state verbatim the terms of the Lease or attach a copy of
the Lease to the Complaint, the demurrer to the breach of contract claim is
sustained with leave to amend. 
 
As
to Defendants’ other basis for demurring to the breach of contract claim, if
Defendants seek to recover payment for higher water bills due to their being
more tenants in the unit than agreed to in the Lease, Defendants should file
cross-complaint.  The purpose of a
demurrer is not to allege a cause of action against the plaintiff. (See CCP §
426.10.) 
 
Lastly,
whether the Plaintiffs are in fact undocumented is a disputed issue of fact and
irrelevant to this action and the court has no discretion to consider
irrelevant evidence. (See Velasquez v. Centrome, Inc.
(2015) 233 Cal.App.4th 1191, 1211-1212.) “Access to the courts is ‘a right guaranteed to all persons by the
federal and state Constitutions.’ “(Smith v. Ogbuehi
(2019) 38 Cal.App.5th 453, 465.) Accordingly, the Plaintiffs’ immigration
status has no bearing on the disposition of this demurrer or this action. 
 
Defendants’
motion to strike is without merit and is denied. 
 
Conclusion
 
Defendants’ demurrer to the
Complaint is overruled as to the first, second, and third causes of action and
sustained with leave to amend as to the fourth cause of action for breach of contract.
The motion to strike is denied. Plaintiffs are granted 30 days leave to amend.
OSC re: Amended Complaint set for __.
 