  Case Number:  23STCV22387    Hearing Date:   March 6, 2024    Dept:  37 HEARING DATE:                 Wednesday, March 6, 2024
CASE NUMBER:                   23STCV22387
CASE NAME:                        Douglas J. DeNoce, et
al. v. Watergate Property Owners Association, Inc., et al. 
MOVING PARTY:                 Defendants Watergate Property Owners
Association, Inc.; S.H. Chavin, Inc. dba Community Property Management
OPPOSING PARTY:             Plaintiffs Douglas J. DeNoce as an individual and Trustee of the
Savannah N. DeNoce Trust
TRIAL DATE:                         Not Set. 
PROOF OF SERVICE:           OK

                                                                                                                                                            

PROCEEDING:                      Motion to Strike First
Amended Complaint
OPPOSITION:                        22 February 2024
REPLY:                                  26
February 2-24
 
TENTATIVE:                         Defendants’ motion to strike is granted. The
Plaintiff is given 30 days leave to amend. OS re: Amended Complaint set for _.
Defendants to give notice. 

                                                                                                                                                            

 
Background
 
On September 18, 2023, Douglas J. DeNoce,
as an individual and Trustee of the Savannah N. DeNoce Trust (“Plaintiff”),
filed a Complaint against Watergate Property Owners Association, Inc.; S.H.
Chavin, Inc. dba Community Property Management (collectively “Defendants”) and
Does 1 to 25. 
 
The operative First Amended Complaint
(“FAC”) alleges two causes of action: (1) private nuisance; and (2) public
nuisance. 
 
On January 26, 2024, Defendants filed a
motion to strike the FAC’s request for punitive damages. Plaintiffs oppose the
Motion. 
 
Motion to
strike[1]
 
I.         Legal Standard
 
Any party, within the time allowed to respond to a pleading
may serve and file a notice of motion to strike the whole or any part thereof.
(CCP § 435(b)(1); CRC, rule 3.1322(b).) The court may, upon a motion or at any
time in its discretion and upon terms it deems proper: (1) strike out any
irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted in any pleading; or (2) strike
out all or any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity with the
laws of California, a court rule, or an order of the court. (CCP § 436(a)-(b); Stafford
v. Shultz (1954) 42 Cal.2d 767, 782 [“Matter in a pleading which is not
essential to the claim is surplusage; probative facts are surplusage and may be
stricken out or disregarded”].)¿¿¿¿¿¿ 
¿¿ 
“Where the defect raised by a motion to strike or by demurrer
is reasonably capable of cure, leave to amend is routinely and liberally
granted to give the plaintiff a chance to cure the defect in question.” (CLD
Construction, Inc. v. City of San Ramon (2004) 120 Cal.App.4th 1141, 1146.)
The burden is on the complainant to show the Court that a pleading can be
amended successfully. (Goodman v. Kennedy (1976) 18 Cal.3d 335, 348.)¿¿¿ 
 
II.        Discussion
 
Defendants seek to strike the
following from Plaintiff’s FAC: 
 
Plaintiffs are entitled to punitive and exemplary damages in
an amount to be ascertained, which is appropriate to punish or set an example
of Defendants and deter such behavior by Defendants and others in the future.
 
(FAC ¶ 53.)
 
f. For punitive damages for Defendants malicious, fraudulent,
and oppressive actions by the persons identified in the First Amended Complaint
and according to proof
 
[ . . . ]
 
h. An award to Plaintiffs for exemplary damages according to
proof
 
(Prayer for Relief subds. (f),
(g).)
 
To state a claim for punitive
damages under Civ. Code § 3294, a plaintiff must allege specific facts showing
that the defendant has been guilty of malice, oppression or fraud. (Smith v.
Superior Court (1992) 10 Cal. App. 4th 1033, 1042.)¿ The basis for punitive
damages must be pled with specificity; conclusory allegations devoid of any
factual assertions are insufficient. (Ibid.)¿¿“Malice” is defined in
Civ. Code § 3294 (c)(1) as “conduct which is intended by the defendant to cause
injury” or “despicable conduct which is carried on by the defendant with a
willful and conscious disregard of the rights or safety of others.”
“Oppression” is defined as “despicable conduct subjecting a person to cruel and
unjust hardship in conscious disregard of that person’s rights.” (Civ. Code §
3294(c)(2).) The term “despicable” has been defined in the case law as actions
that are “base,” “vile,” or “contemptible.” (Shade Foods, Inc. v. Innovative
Products Sales & Marketing, Inc. (2000) 78 Cal.App.4th 847, 891.) Fraud
means “an intentional misrepresentation, deceit, or concealment of a material
fact known to the defendant with the intention on the part of the defendant of
thereby depriving a person of property or legal rights or otherwise causing
injury.” (Civ. Code § 3294(c)(3).
 
The FAC alleges that Plaintiff
resided in a townhouse and that Defendants failed to abate a noise-based
nuisance that caused Plaintiff to suffer a life-altering pontine ischemic
stroke and that the noise nuisance constituted an interference with Plaintiff’s
use and enjoyment of the townhouse. (FAC ¶ 1.) 
 
Defendants point out that
Plaintiff alleged he has lived in the townhouse since 1999. (FAC ¶ 13.)  Plaintiff fails to allege that the adjacent
parking strips that were responsible for the vehicle noise nuisance were added
after he moved to the townhouse or that his stroke was proximately caused by
the creation of the parking strips because he suffered a stroke shortly after
the parking strips were built. “Mere negligence, even gross negligence, is not
sufficient to justify such an award” for punitive damages. (Kendall Yacht
Corp. v. United California Bank (1975) 50 Cal.App.3d 949,958.) 
 
The FAC alleges that when a
vehicle pulls into the parking lot or departs from the parking lot it makes
noise and that the Watergate Property Owners Association (“WPOA”) controls the
parking strips. (FAC ¶¶ 17, 18.) The FAC fails to allege facts that support a finding
that Defendants acted with malice, oppression, or fraud in building the
adjacent parking strips and in failing to control and abate the noise emitting
from the vehicles that use the parking strips. Although Plaintiff raised
objections to Defendants raising the issue of how long Plaintiff has lived in
the townhouse, that fact exists on the face of the FAC and Plaintiff had the
opportunity to raise the issue and explain why such a fact cannot considered at
the hearing for this Motion. 
 
“Public nuisance liability ‘does
not hinge on whether the defendant owns, possesses or controls the property,
nor on whether he is in a position to abate the nuisance; the critical question
is whether the defendant created or assisted in the creation of the nuisance.’”
(Melton v. Boustred (2010) 183 Cal.App.4th 521, 542 citing City of
Modesto Redevelopment Agency v. Superior Court (2004) 119 Cal.App.4th 28,
38; see also County of Santa Clara v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2006) 137
Cal.App.4th 292, 306 [accord].) Here, there are no facts alleging that
Defendants acted with malice, fraud, or oppression in creating or assisting in
the creation of the noise nuisance sufficient to support a claim for punitive
damages. 
 
When the defendant is
a¿corporation, “the oppression, fraud, or malice must be perpetrated,
authorized, or knowingly ratified by an officer, director, or managing agent of
the¿corporation.” (Wilson v. Southern California Edison Company (2015)
234 Cal.App.4th 123, 164; see Civ. Code, § 3294(b).) Here, Plaintiff fails to
allege who, what, and when each board member and managing agent of the trust
learned about the nuisance, Plaintiff’s health condition, and the impact of the
nuisance on Plaintiff’s health sufficient to show that each individual acted
with malice, fraud, or oppression and/or ratified said conduct. 
 
Based on the above, Defendants’
motion to strike is granted. 
 
Conclusion
 
Defendants’ motion to strike is
granted. The Plaintiff is given 30 days leave to amend. OSC re: Amended
Complaint set for _. Defendants to give notice.
 


