  Case Number:  20STCV40739    Hearing Date:   April 29, 2024    Dept:  30 RODOLFO ZARATE BLANCO vs KIRSTIE LEE WALKER, et al.TENTATIVEPlaintiff’s Motion to Compel Documents at Deposition and Request for Sanctions is GRANTED. Defendant is ordered to produce responsive documents to Requests No. 5, 7, 8 and 10, within 20 days of this order. Defendant is ordered to pay $610 in sanctions to Plaintiff’s counsel within 20 days of this order.  Moving party to give notice.Defendant’s request for sanctions is DENIED.Legal StandardCalifornia Code of Civil Procedure section 2025.450, subdivision (a) provides: “If, after service of a deposition notice, a party to the action . . . , without having served a valid objection under Section 2025.410, fails to appear for examination, or to proceed with it, or to produce for inspection any document . . . described in the deposition notice, the party giving the notice may move for an order compelling the deponent’s attendance and testimony, and the production for inspection of any document . . . described in the deposition notice.”California Code of Civil Procedure section 2025.450, subdivision (b) provides: “A motion under subdivision (a) shall comply with both of the following:2. The motion shall set forth specific facts showing good cause justifying the production for inspection of any document, electronically stored information, or tangible thing described in the deposition notice.3. The motion shall be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration under Section 2016.040, or, when the deponent fails to attend the deposition and produce the documents, electronically stored information, or things described in the deposition notice, by a declaration stating that the petitioner has contacted the deponent to inquire about the nonappearance.”Code Civil Procedure section 2025.480 provides, in pertinent part, as follows:(b) If a deponent fails to answer any question or to produce any document, electronically stored information, or tangible thing under the deponent’s control that is specified in the deposition notice or a deposition subpoena, the party seeking discovery may move the court for an order compelling that answer or production. (b) This motion shall be made no later than 60 days after the completion of the record of the deposition, and shall be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration under Section 2016.040. ...(CCP § 2025.480(a).)DiscussionPlaintiff moves to compel Defendant’s production of documents at her deposition.Meet and Confer RequirementThe Court finds the meet and confer requirement has been met. (Reply, Feldman Decl., Exh. 1 pgs 4:9-16:5.)Separate StatementA court has discretion to continue or deny a motion to compel further responses to interrogatories where no separate statement has been filed. (Sinaiko Healthcare Consulting, Inc. v. Pacific Healthcare Consultants (2007) 148 Cal.App.4th 390, 409, fn. 14.) A court can still compel further responses to interrogatories where no separate statement is provided. (Ibid.)The Court finds that Plaintiff has failed to comply with the separate statement requirement set forth in Cal. Rules of Court, Rule 3.1345. Plaintiff did not file a separate statement in support of the instant motion. The Court, however, will not deny the motion on such grounds. Defendant does not identify any prejudice it has incurred due to Plaintiff’s failure to file a separate statement. Plaintiff is reminded of the need to comply with the California Rules of Court.ObjectionsPlaintiff argues that Defendant waived objections to the document requests by serving them less than three days before the deposition notice. (See CCP Section 2025.410(a).)The Court disagrees. Defendants have not waived their objections to the request for production of documents. (Monarch Healthcare v. Superior Court (2000) 78 Cal.App.4th 1282, 1290 ["...a party or witness may wait until the deposition and raise objections at that time to the form or content of the subpoena, or to demands for production of privileged documents, etc."] quoting Weil & Brown, Cal. Practice Guide: Civil Procedure Before Trial (The Rutter Group 1999) ¶ 8:191, pp. 8C-40 to 8C-41; see also id., ¶ 8:606, p. 8E-6.) A request for production of documents in a deposition notice merely requires that the documents identified are to be produced by the deponent at the deposition. Thus, a request for documents in conjunction with a deposition notice is not the equivalent of a request for production of documents under Code of Civil Procedure section 2031.010 et seq. The non-moving party need not object in advance of the deposition as with an objection to the notice. Objections are timely raised during the deposition and are not waived by the failure to object before the deposition commences. (See CCP § 2025.460(a).)Estimate of Defendant’s Vehicle Damages, Cell Phone Records, Insurance Coverage DeclarationsNext, Plaintiff argues that two of the items sought and resisted for production, (1) an estimate of Defendant’s vehicle’s damages, and (2) cell phone records, are routinely produced in motor vehicle negligence litigation and are discoverable as bearing upon causation of injuries and whether Defendant was sober. Plaintiff argues the third item sought, insurance coverage declarations, is statutorily discoverable.After the deposition, Defendant offered to produce the insurance coverage declaration(s) (Request No. 10), but only if Plaintiff signed a confidentiality agreement, which Plaintiff declines to do, not being required to do this by any statute or order.Defendant also claims that the protective order in this case barred production of these three items (Request Nos. 5, 7, 8, and 10).On September 18, 2023, the Court granted Defendant’s motion for a protective order and limited the scope of Defendant’s deposition to questions related to issues of speed, damage to the vehicles, injuries (received and perceived), conversations at the scene, sobriety at time of accident, and whether defendant suffers from addictions to illegal drugs. (9/18/2023 Minute Order.)The Court finds that the items sought are not barred by the protective order. The Court expressly stated that damage to the vehicle and Defendant’s sobriety, addiction, and conversations at the scene were topics that Plaintiff may ask questions about. As such, the items sought -- documents relating to the vehicle’s damage, and cell phone records -- are within the scope of topics this Court stated Plaintiff may question Defendant about. As Plaintiff points out, if cell phone records show or lead to showing that Defendant Walker went drinking at lunchtime, it would reflect on her sobriety at the time of the subject accident, a permitted topic of testimony despite the protective order. Next, Defendant has not explained how insurance coverage declarations are barred by the protective order.Further, as to the insurance coverage declaration, Defendant offered to produce this evidence if Plaintiff entered into a protective order. As the party seeking entry of a protective order Defendant has the burden to show good cause for the protective order sought. (Fairmont Ins. Co. v. Superior Court (2000) 22 Cal.4th 245, 255 [“the burden is on the party seeking the protective order to show good cause for whatever order is sought.”].) Insofar as the “commercially sensitive” objection is concerned, the person claiming a trade secret privilege has the burden of establishing its existence (i.e., that the information involved is a trade secret and the party is its owner). Bridgestone/Firestone, Inc. v. Sup. Ct. (1992) 7 Cal.App.4th 1384, 1390.) This is done by declaration identifying the alleged trade secret, the documents which would disclose the trade secret, and presenting evidence that the secret qualifies as a trade secret. (Evid. Code §§ 1060-1061; Stadish v. Sup. Ct. (1999) 71 Cal.App.4th 1130, 1144-45.) Thereafter, the party seeking discovery must make a prima facie showing of the information's relevance and necessity to the case. Once this occurs, the trade secret claimant must demonstrate the disadvantages of a protective order, if any. (Bridgestone/Firestone, Inc. v. Sup. Ct., supra, 7 Cal.App.4th at p. 1390.)Defendant should have sought a protective order if it considers this information to be confidential or commercially sensitive. Further, Defendant has not produced any evidence to show this information would qualify as confidential or sensitive information. As such, Defendant has not justified its objections. “[I]f a timely motion to compel has been filed, the burden is on responding party to justify any objection.”¿ (Fairmont Ins. Co. v. Superior Court (2000) 22 Cal.4th 245, 255, citing Coy v. Superior Court (1962) 58 Cal.2d 210, 220-221.)Further, as to property damage estimates or evaluations, Defendant argues it previously answered in prior discovery that no responsive documents could be found in her possession, custody, or control. (Yoshioka Decl., ¶ 7, Exh. E, pp. 7-8.)Where a party is unable to comply with a demand for inspection, the party’s response should “affirm that a diligent search and a reasonable inquiry has been made in an effort to comply with that demand,” specify the reasons for the inability to comply, and “set forth the name and address of any natural person or organization known or believed by that party to have possession, custody, or control of that item or category of item.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 2031.230.)When responding to interrogatories, parties cannot feign ignorance by claiming an inability to respond. (Sinaiko Healthcare Consulting Inc. v. Pacific Healthcare Consultants (2007) 148 Cal.App.4th 390, 406.) They must perform a reasonable investigation to answer interrogatories. (Code Civ. Proc. §2030.220 subd. (c); Regency Health Services, Inc. v. Superior Court (1998) 64 Cal.App.4th 1496, 1504.) And “[i]f a person cannot furnish details [after the investigation], he should set forth the efforts made to secure the information.” (Deyo v. Kilbourne (1978) 84 Cal.App.3d 771, 782.)While Defendant states that she is unable to comply with these requests, Defendant has failed to make the required showing supporting her inability to comply; she failed to affirm that a diligent search and reasonable inquiry has been made, and failed to set forth the efforts made to secure the information. The response also fails to set forth the name and address of any natural person or organization known to have possession, custody or control of the documents.As a result, Plaintiff’s motion to compel the documents is granted. Defendant is to produce responsive documents to Requests No. 5, 7, 8 and 10 within 20 days of this order.SanctionsIf this motion is granted, the court shall impose a monetary sanction in favor of the party who noticed the deposition and against the deponent or the party with whom the deponent is affiliated, unless the court finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust. (CCP § 2025.450(g)(1).)Defendant argues Plaintiff brought this motion under the wrong code section. However, Defendant cites no authority which says this. Moreover, the requirement to file the motionwithin 60 days of the deposition under Code of Civil Procedure section 2025.480 have been met in this case so there would be no prejudice even if that were true. Thus, as the motion is granted, Plaintiff’s request for sanctions is also granted, but in reduced amount as the amount requested is excessive. As such, the Court imposes sanctions against Defendant Kirstie Lee Walker in the amount of $610 ($275 per hour x 2 hours, plus $60 filing fee) to be paid within 20 days of this order. Sanctions cannot be awarded against defense counsel because the statute says nothing about imposing sanctions against the attorney.Defendant’s request for sanctions against Plaintiff under Code of Civil Procedure section 2025.480(j) is denied as Plaintiff has not unsuccessfully made the motion.ConclusionBased on the foregoing, Plaintiff’s Motion to Compel Documents at Deposition and Request for Sanctions is GRANTED. Defendant is ordered to produce responsive documents to Requests No. 5, 7, 8 and 10, within 20 days of this order. Defendant is ordered to pay $610 in sanctions to Plaintiff’s counsel within 20 days of this order.Defendant’s request for sanctions is DENIED.