 Case Number:  24STCV03814    Hearing Date:   October 21, 2024    Dept:  56  
 
SUPERIOR
COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR
THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



OLIVIA HUSSEY
  and LEONARD
WHITING, 
                        Plaintiffs,
            vs.
 
PARAMOUNT PICTURES CORP.,
CRITERION COLLECTIONS, INC., a wholly
owned subsidiary of JANUS FILMS, LLC,
JANUS FILMS, LLC, a New York Limited
Liability Company, and DOES I through
D, inclusive, 
                                                                             
  
                        Defendants.       
                        


 


     
  CASE NO.:  24STCV03814
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER RE: 
SPECIAL MOTION OF DEFENDANTS TO STRIKE
  FIRST AMENDED COMPLAINT PURSUANT TO CCP § 425.16
 
Date: October 21, 2024
Time: 8:30 a.m.
Dept. 56
 
 



 
MOVING PARTY: Defendants
Paramount Pictures Corporation; Criterion Collections, Inc.; and Janus Films,
LLC (collectively, “Defendants”)
 
RESPONDING PARTY: Plaintiffs
Olivia Hussey (“Hussey”) and Leonard Whiting (“Whiting”) (collectively,
“Plaintiffs”)
 
            The Court has considered the moving,
opposition and reply papers.

 
BACKGROUND
            This case stems from the production
and distribution of the 1968 film adaptation of the Shakespeare drama Romeo
and Juliet (the “Film”), which was directed by Franco Zeffirelli and
starred by Plaintiffs as main characters. 
Plaintiffs entered production of the Film in Italy in 1967.  At the time of filming, Hussey was 16 years
old, and Whiting was 17 years old.  During
the production of the Film, Plaintiffs performed a scene in the nude (“the
Bedroom Scene”) at the request of Zeffirelli.  The Bedroom Scene depicts the couple waking up
the morning after their first night of marriage.  The Film includes frames of Whiting’s bare
buttocks and Hussey’s bare breasts, including her nipples and areolas.  It also depicts Whiting laying in bed with and
kissing Hussey after he has donned trousers.  The Film was originally released in theaters
in 1968, was released on DVD in 2000 and re-released on Blu-ray digital in
2023.
 
At
issue in the present action is the most recent 2023 digital release of the Film.  The operative First Amended Complaint (“FAC”)
filed on March 4, 2024, asserts the following causes of action: (1) unlawful
distribution of intimate photographs; (2) use of likeness; (3) violation of
Performers Rights Act of the United Kingdom; (4) Civil Code 1708.85(a); and (5)
15 U.S.C. § 6851(b).
 
            On May 23, 2024, Defendants filed the
instant Special Motion to Strike First Amended Complaint Pursuant to CCP §
425.16 (the “Motion”).  Plaintiffs filed
their opposition on August 2, 2024. Defendants filed a Reply Declaration of
Nary Kim on September 20, 2024.
 
JUDICIAL NOTICE 
Defendants’ Request
Defendants request that the Court take judicial
notice of the following:
•      
The three physical DVD and Blu-Ray discs of the 1968
Romeo and Juliet film 
lodged with the Court and described in Paragraphs 37 to 39 and
corresponding to Exhibits 1 to
3 to the Declaration of Nary Kim;
•      
British case law and authorities (as described in
and appended to the Declaration of
Rachel Alexander); 
•      
Plaintiffs’ complaint in the Prior Action (Exhibit A
to the Declaration of Nary Kim); and
•      
Plaintiffs’ initial complaint filed in this present
action.
Defendants further request that the Court take judicial notice of the
decision by Judge Alison MacKenzie in Whiting v. Paramount Pictures Corp.,
LASC Case No. 22SMC02968 (the “Prior Action”) on July 6, 2023.  
The Court finds that the requested records are
judicially noticeable.  (Evid. Code §
452, subds. (d), (f) and (h); § 453.)  Accordingly, Defendants’
requests for judicial notice are GRANTED.
 
Plaintiffs’ Request
Plaintiffs request judicial notice of the following:
Act III, Scene 5 of the Shakespearian drama, “Romeo
and Juliet”, as extracted from the Folger Shakespeare Library (https://www.folger.edu/explore/shakespeares-works/romeo-and-juliet/read/3/5).
 
The request is GRANTED.  (Evid. Code § 452 (h).)
            
DISCUSSION
A cause of action against a person arising from any
act of that person in furtherance of the person’s right of petition or free
speech under the United States Constitution or the California
Constitution in connection with a public issue shall be subject to a
special motion to strike, unless the court determines that the plaintiff has
established that there is a probability that the plaintiff will prevail on the
claim.  (CCP § 425.16, subd. (b)(1).)
 
            In ruling on an
anti-SLAPP (strategic lawsuit against public participation) motion, a trial court
uses a “summary-judgment-like procedure” at an early stage of the litigation.  (Varian Medical Systems, Inc. v. Delfino (2005)
35 Cal.4th 180, 192.)  The procedure is a
two-step process.  First, the moving
defendant must show that the acts of which the plaintiff complains were
protected activity, namely, that they were taken “in furtherance of the
[defendant]'s right of petition or free speech under the United States or California
Constitution in connection with a public issue.”  (CCP §425.16(b)(l).)  If the defendant carries that burden, the
burden shifts to the plaintiff to demonstrate a probability of prevailing on
the claim.  (CCP § 425.16(b)(3).)
 
In making both determinations, the trial court
considers “the pleadings, and supporting and opposing affidavits stating the
facts upon which the liability or defense is based.”  (CCP §
425. I 6(b)(2); Equilon Enterprises, LLC v. Consumer Cause, Inc.
(2002), 29 Cal.4th 53, 67.)


 
First Prong: Protected Activity
In determining the first step, “courts are to
consider the elements of the challenged claim and what actions by the defendant
supply those elements and consequently form the basis for liability.  The defendant’s burden is to identify what
acts each challenged claim rests on and to show how those acts are protected
under a statutorily defined category of protected activity.”  (Bonni v. St. Joseph Health System
(2021) 11 Cal.5th 995, 1009 [internal quotations and citations omitted].)
                        
Here, all of the Plaintiffs’ claims arise from the
Defendants’ distribution of the Film and inclusion of the Bedroom Scene.  It is well-settled that the production and
distribution of a film is a protected activity for the purpose of anti-SLAPP
law.  “Under California law, the
creation, production, and distribution of entertainment such as television or
film are activities in furtherance of the exercise of the right to free speech,
and thus protected under the anti-SLAPP statute.”  (Brodeur v. Atlas Ent’t, Inc. (2016)
248 Cal. App. 4th 665, 674; De Havilland v. FX Networks, LLC
(2018) 21 Cal.App.5th 845, 849-50.)  [“Authors
write books. Filmmakers make films.  Playwrights
craft plays.  And television writers, directors,
and producers create television shows and put them on the air. ... The First
Amendment protects these expressive works and the free speech rights of their
creators”].)  
 
Moreover, this very issue has been decided in a
previous lawsuit filed by Plaintiffs on December 30, 2022 against Paramount Pictures
Corporation relating to the distribution of the Film, in the Prior Action.  In the Prior Action, Judge MacKenzie, in granting
the anti-SLAPP motion, found that the first prong of the anti-SLAPP analysis
has been established as Plaintiffs’ claims arose from the production and distribution
of a film, which is a protected activity under the First Amendment.   In determining whether the first prong of
the analysis was satisfied, the Court rejected Plaintiff’s argument that the Bedroom
Scene constitutes illegal child pornography, and held that distribution of the
Film is thus entitled to First Amendment protections.  (5/26/2023 Minute Order, LASC Case No. 22SMCV02968.)  
 
Plaintiffs assert that collateral estoppel cannot
apply in the present action because the 2023 release that is the subject of the
present action occurred after the filing of the Prior Action and was therefore
nonexistent at the time.  The Court
disagrees.  The Court’s finding on this
same issue in the Prior Action has a preclusive effect on the present
action.  The Court further disagrees with
Plaintiffs’ contention that issue preclusion does not apply since the cases were declared as unrelated within the meaning of
California Rules of Court, rule 3.300(a).  (4/8/2024 Minute Order).  Even if a case is deemed unrelated under
procedural rules for case management, if the criteria for issue preclusion are
met, the issues decided in the prior case can still preclude their relitigation
in the current case.
 
Under California law, a party is collaterally
estopped from relitigating an issue if: “(1) the issue decided in a prior
adjudication is identical with that presented in the action in question; and (2)
there was a final judgment on the merits; and (3) the party against whom the
plea is asserted was a party or in privity with a party to the prior
adjudication.”  Burdette v. Carrier
Corp. (2008) 158 Cal. App. 4th 1668, 1688. 
Here, both Plaintiffs were parties to the Prior Action.  The issue of whether the distribution of the
Film is a protected activity, which was decided in the affirmative in the Prior
Action, is the exact same issue for resolution in the present action.  Plaintiffs’ attempt to distinguish the 2023
release from the prior releases holds no water, as both the Prior Action and
the present action relate to the distribution of the same movie and involve the
very same scene at issue.  The Court entered
judgment in the Prior Action on July 6, 2023, and Plaintiffs’ appeal was
dismissed by the Court of Appeals on April 15, 2024.  Since all the requirements of collateral
estoppel are met, Plaintiffs are barred from relitigating the issue of whether distribution
of the Film is a protected activity.  Thus, here, the first prong has been
established. 
 
Second Prong: Probability of Success on the Merits
Once protected activity is established in an
anti-SLAPP inquiry, the burden falls on Plaintiffs to demonstrate a
“probability” of success on the merits.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 425.16, subd. (b); Equilon,
supra, at p. 67; Baral v. Schnitt (2016) 1 Cal. 5th 376,
396 [“If the court determines that relief is sought based on allegations
arising from activity protected by the statute, the second step is reached.  There, the burden shifts to the plaintiff to
demonstrate that each challenged claim based on protected activity is legally
sufficient and factually substantiated.”].) 

 
As to the second step inquiry, a plaintiff seeking
to demonstrate the merit of the claim “may not rely solely on its complaint,
even if verified; instead, its proof must be made upon competent admissible
evidence.”¿  (Sweetwater Union High
School District v. Gilbane Building Co. (2019) 6 Cal.5th 931, 940,
citations omitted.)  “[T]he plaintiff must demonstrate that the complaint
is both legally sufficient and supported by a sufficient prima facie showing of
facts to sustain a favorable judgment if the evidence submitted by the
plaintiff is credited.” (Matson, supra, 40 Cal.App.4th at p. 548
[internal quotations omitted].)  At this
“second stage of an anti-SLAPP hearing, the court may consider affidavits,
declarations, and their equivalents if it is reasonably possible the proffered
evidence set out in those statements will be admissible at trial.”¿ (Sweetwater
Union High School Dist. v. Gilbane Building Co. (2019) 6 Cal.5th 931, 949
(emphasis in original).)  In making that determination, the trial court
considers “the pleadings, and supporting and opposing affidavits stating the
facts upon which the liability or defense is based.”  (Code Civ.
Proc., § 425.16, subd. (b); Equilon, supra, at p. 67.)
 
            Initially, the Court notes
that Plaintiffs did not dispute Defendants’ argument that Plaintiff’s third cause
of action under the United Kingdom statute, The Dramatic and Musical
Performers' Protection Act of 1958 (“DMPPA”), is not valid because the DMPPA
was completely repealed in 1989.  Since
the alleged acts took place after the repeal of the DMPPA, no legal claim can
be made under this statute. 
 
The rest of Plaintiffs’ claims also fail because Plaintiffs
cannot prove that they did not consent to the inclusion of the Bedroom Scene in
the Film and its subsequent distribution, including the 2023 release of the
Film.  The absence of consent is a key
element in all of the Plaintiffs’ claims. 
(Civ. Code § 1708.85(a) [“A private cause of action lies against a
person who intentionally distributes by any means a photograph, film,
videotape, recording, or any other reproduction of another, without the other’s consent…” (emphasis added)]; Civ. Code § 3344 [“Any person who knowingly uses
another’s name, voice, signature, photograph, or likeness, in any manner, … without such person’s prior consent, or,
in the case of a minor, the prior consent of his parent or legal guardian, shall be liable for any damages sustained by the person or persons
injured as a result thereof…”] (emphasis added); 15 U.S.C. § 6851(b) [“an
individual whose intimate visual depiction is disclosed … without the consent of the individual … may bring a civil action…”].  (Emphasis
added.))
 
            Plaintiffs argue that
the 2023 release of the Film had a much higher resolution than its original
release.  As such, Plaintiffs claim that
any prior consent given by Plaintiffs for earlier releases of the Film does not
apply to its 2023 release.  Plaintiffs
assert that on a special motion to strike, the court is required to accept the
allegations in the complaint as proven, and thus the allegation in the FAC that
the 2023 production had a much higher resolution than the original should be
accepted as true.  The Court
disagrees.  
 
In considering whether a plaintiff opposing an
anti-SLAPP motion to strike has shown a probability of prevailing on the merits,
the trial court considers the pleadings and evidentiary submissions of both the
plaintiff and the defendant, and although the court does not weigh the
credibility or comparative probative strength of competing evidence, it should
grant the motion if, as a matter of law, the defendant’s evidence supporting
the motion defeats the plaintiff’s attempt to establish evidentiary support for
the claim.  (Kenne v. Stennis
(2014) 230 Cal. App. 4th 953; Blanchard v. DIRECTV, Inc. (2004) 123 Cal.
App. 4th 903, 918.)
 
Here, Defendants submitted evidence of Hussey’s
written contract entered into by her legal guardian on her behalf, granting the
“right to record products of the Artist’s services hereunder and to include the
same in the said Film and … for the purposes of exploitation, advertising,
etc., by any and all means and by all media and for any other purposes the
Company will require.”  (Declaration of
Jonathan Strauss, Exh. B.)  Defendants
likewise demonstrated, through circumstantial evidence, the existence of Whiting’s
contract.  (Id., Exhs. J, C and K;
Declaration of Nary Kim, Exh. C.)  These contracts
are evidence of Plaintiff’s express consent. 

 
            Even in the absence of
express consent, however, Plaintiffs’ subsequent conduct in the decades that
followed since the Film’s original 1968 release speaks to Plaintiffs’ implied ratification
and approval of the Film, including the Bedroom Scene.  This includes, among others, appearances and statements
made by Plaintiffs during interviews and attendance at film festivals, during which
Plaintiffs did not object to the continuing release and distribution of the
successive releases of the Film.  (Declaration of Nary Kim, ¶¶ 24-33, and
corresponding exhibits.)  Thus,
Plaintiffs could not now make a showing of non-consent.  
 
            Equally unavailing is
Plaintiffs’ attempt to distinguish between the prior releases of the Film and
the 2023 release which is the basis of the present suit.  In support of this Motion, Defendants have
lodged with the Court copies of the Film in three different formats: (1) the
2000 domestic home-video release of the Film on DVD; (2) the 2013 international
home-video release of the Film on Blu-Ray; and (3) the 2023 Criterion release
of the Film on Blu-ray.  (Declaration of
Nary Kim, ¶¶ 37-38, Exhs. 1-3.)  
 
Plaintiffs claim that the 2023 re-release was
digitally enhanced in such high definition and detail that the Bedroom Scene
became impermissibly explicit and thus became a misappropriation of their
likeness without their consent.  The
Court considered the evidence submitted by Defendants and came to the
conclusion that Plaintiffs’ claims lack merit.  A comparison of the 2023 release with the
prior versions shows no significant visible improvement in the film,
particularly in the Bedroom Scene, to the naked eye.  The lack of noticeable distinction defeats
Plaintiffs’ assertion.
 
In short, Plaintiffs could not make a showing that
they have not consented to the distribution of the Film, whether in 2023 or its
previous releases.  The existence of Plaintiffs’
consent is dispositive of all of their claims in the instant case.  As a matter of law, therefore, Plaintiffs are
unable to demonstrate their
probability of prevailing on the merits.
 
RULING
            Based on all the foregoing, the
Motion is GRANTED. 
 
Moving
party is ordered to give notice of this ruling.            
 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at SMC_DEPT56@lacourt.org as directed
by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department does not receive an email
and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion will be placed off
calendar.
 
Dated this 21st day of October
2024
 




 


 




 


Hon. Holly J.
  Fujie
Judge of the
  Superior Court
 



