 Case Number:  23STCV16851    Hearing Date:   October 21, 2024    Dept:  56  
 
 
SUPERIOR
COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR
THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



MELISSA ZIEBELL,
  an individual, 
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
ROCKLEY PHOTONICS, INC., a Delaware
corporation; AL BENZONI, an individual;
  and
DOES 1-99, inclusive, 
                                                                             
  
                        Defendants.                               


 


     
  CASE NO.:  23STCV16851
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER RE: 
MOTION TO COMPEL DEFENDANT ROCKLEY PHOTONICS,
  INC. TO PROVIDE FURTHER RESPONSES TO PLAINTIFF ZIEBELL’S REQUESTS FOR
  PRODUCTION OF DOCUMENTS, SET ONE
 
Date: October 21, 2024
Time: 8:30 a.m.
Dept. 56
 
 



 
MOVING PARTY: Plaintiff
MELISSA ZIEBELL (“Plaintiff”)      
 
RESPONDING PARTY: Defendant
ROCKLEY PHOTONICS, INC. (“Defendant”)
 
            The Court has considered the moving,
opposition, and reply papers. 
 
BACKGROUND
             This action arises from an employment
relationship.  On July 19, 2023,
Plaintiff filed a complaint (“Complaint”) asserting the following causes of
action: (1) Lab. Code § 1102.5 retaliation; (2) FEHA discrimination: disparate
treatment; (3) FEHA harassment: hostile work environment; (4) FEHA retaliation;
(5) FEHA failure to prevent harassment, discrimination, or retaliation; (6) constructive
discharge; (7) violation of Equal Pay Act; and (8) Equal Pay Act – retaliation.
 
            On August 20, 2024, Plaintiff filed
the instant Motion to Compel Defendant to Provide Further Responses to Requests
for Production of Documents, Set One (the “Motion”).  Defendant filed and opposition on October 8,
2024, and Plaintiff filed a reply on October 11, 2024.
 
MEET AND CONFER 
            The meet and confer requirement has been met.
             
DISCUSSION
            California law requires a responding
party to respond to each request for production of documents with either a
statement of compliance, a representation that the party lacks the ability to
comply, or an objection to the demand.  (Code of Civil Procedure(“CCP”) § 2031.210,
subd. (a).) 
 
CCP
section 2031.310(a) provides that on receipt of a response to a request for
production of documents, the demanding party may move for an order compelling
further responses if: (1) A statement of compliance with the demand is
incomplete; (2) A representation of inability to comply is inadequate,
incomplete, or evasive; (3) An objection in the response is without merit or
too general. 
 
Here,
Plaintiff served Requests for Production of Documents, Set One (“RFPs”) on
Defendant on February 9, 2024.  (Declaration
of Janet H. Leader in Opposition to the Motion (“Leader Decl.”), ¶ 5.)  After receiving extensions, Defendant served
its written responses to the RFPs on June 26, 2024, and the verification was provided
on July 2, 2024.  (Leader Decl., ¶ 13,
Exh. F.) 
 
Defendant
objected to Plaintiff’s RFPs Nos. 12, 21-26, and 28-43.  The RFPs at issue seek “all documents related
to any complaints...” 
“…about
[Defendant’s] working conditions in the past 10 years” (no. 12);
“…related
to harassment based on race” (no. 21);
“…related
to harassment based on ancestry” (no. 22);
“…related
to harassment based on color” (no. 23);
“…related
to harassment based on national origin” (no. 24);
“…related
to harassment based on sex/gender” (no. 25);
“…related
to discrimination based on race” (no. 28);
“…related
to discrimination based on ancestry” (no. 29);
“…related
to discrimination based on color” (no. 30);
“…related
to discrimination based on national origin” (no. 31);
“…related
to discrimination based on sex/gender” (no. 32); 
“…related
to wrongful and/or constructive termination and/or demotion” (no. 33);
“all
documents related to…” harassment training completed by Plaintiff’s supervisors
(no. 26); and 
“lawsuits,
arbitrations, and/or administrative investigations…in the last 10 years” and
judgments and awards for every cause of action alleged by Plaintiff in her
Complaint (nos. 34-43).  (Ibid.)
 
Plaintiff
brought this Motion arguing that Defendant’s responses are evasive and
incomplete.  In Plaintiff’s Separate Statement,
Plaintiff asserts that circumstantial evidence, such as evidence of Defendant’s
previous acts of discrimination and retaliation is admissible to establish discriminatory
animus.
 
In
its opposition, Defendant asserts that the subject RFPs are not germane to
Plaintiff’s action and thus its objections are justified.  Defendant contends that the only internal
complaint made by Plaintiff while employed with Defendant was alleged wage
discrimination on the basis of gender.  Defendant
thus argues that the requests are excessive and overly broad since the subject
RFPs seek every alleged “complaint” made against Defendant for the last ten
(10) years alleging discrimination or harassment on the basis of race, color,
national origin or ancestry, or complaints about “working conditions,” while
Plaintiff’s Complaint is devoid of factual allegations supporting all the types
of causes of action and claims sought in the requests.  Defendant contends that the requests are nothing
more than a pure “fishing expedition” without any factual allegations
supporting such far-flung claims.
 
In
reply, Plaintiff simply re-asserts that Plaintiff’s requests seek relevant
information regarding evidence of Defendant’s prior acts of discrimination,
harassment and retaliation.  
 
Unlike
a motion to compel further responses to interrogatories and request for
admissions, a motion for further responses to document production requests must
set forth specific facts showing good cause justifying the discovery
sought.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.310, subd. (b)(1).)  It is not
necessary for the motion to show that the material sought will be admissible in
evidence.  “Good cause” may be found to justify discovery where specific
facts show that the discovery is necessary for effective trial preparation or
to prevent surprise at trial. (See Associated Brewers Dist. Co. v. Superior
Court (1967) 65 Cal.2d 583, 586-588; see also Code Civ. Proc., §§ 2017.010,
2019.030(a)(1) [“Information is discoverable if it is itself admissible in
evidence or appears reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of
admissible evidence and it is not unreasonably cumulative or duplicative, or is
obtainable from some other source that is more convenient, less burdensome, or
less expensive.”]; Lipton v. Superior Court (1996) 48 Cal.App.4th 1599,
1611-1612 [noting a party may obtain discovery regarding any matter, not
privileged, that is relevant to the subject matter involved in the pending
action, if the matter either is itself admissible in evidence or appears
reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence].)   
 
The
Court finds that Plaintiff has failed to set forth specific facts establishing
good cause to compel further responses to the RFPs.  The declaration of Plaintiff’s counsel
submitted in support of the Motion is, in essence, a recitation of
communications and correspondence between the parties’ respective counsel.  Counsel’s declaration, however, does not make
a showing of good cause as required by Calcor Space Facility, Inc. v.
Superior Court, supra, 53 Cal.App.4th 216, 224 and Digital Music
News LLC v. Superior Court, supra, 226 Cal.App.4th 216, 224.  Plaintiff has failed to present specific
facts—in a declaration—as to why further responses should be compelled and why
the documents requested will tend to prove or disprove a fact of consequence in
this action or will lead to other evidence that will tend to prove or disprove
such fact. 
 
In
sum, Plaintiff has not established good cause because the declaration of her
counsel is void of specific facts indicative of good cause. As such, Plaintiff
has not met her burden to compel further responses to the RFPs.
¿¿ 
The
Court, therefore, DENIES Plaintiff’s Motion in its entirety, including the
request for sanctions. 
 
Moving
party is ordered to give notice of this ruling.            
 
Parties
who intend to submit on this tentative must send an email to the Court at
SMC_DEPT56@lacourt.org as directed by the instructions provided on the court
website at www.lacourt.org.  If the
department does not receive an email and there are no appearances at the
hearing, the motion will be placed off calendar.
 
Dated this 21st day of October 2024
 




 


 




 


Hon. Holly J.
  Fujie
Judge of the
  Superior Court
 




 