  Case Number:  23STCP00613    Hearing Date:   April 10, 2024    Dept:  68 Dept.
68
Date:
4-10-24
Case
# 23STCP00613
Trial
Dates: N/A
 
PETITION
 
MOVING
PARTY: Petitioner, David Kartch
RESPONDING
PARTY: Unopposed/Respondents, David Gutierrez, et al.
 
RELIEF
REQUESTED
Hearing
on Motion for Issuance of Order Directing the Redaction of Personal Information
from Public Indexes and Databases
 
SUMMARY
OF ACTION
On
February 28, 2023, David Kartch filed a petition for removal of personal
information from public indexes and databases due to suspicion of potential
identity theft. Kartch specifically represents that a business entity
identified as DAGUT Group Inc., and agent for service David Gutierrez unlawfully
uses Kartch’s personal address in its corporate registration documents with the
California Secretary of State. 
 
RULING: Continued.
Petitioner David Kartch moves for relief pursuant to Civil
Code section 1798.201: 
 
“A person
who has learned or reasonably suspects that his or her personal identifying
information has been used unlawfully, as described in subdivision (a) of
Section 530.5 of the Penal Code, in a business entity filing, and has initiated
a law enforcement investigation in accordance with subdivision (a) of Section
530.6 of the Penal Code, may petition the superior court in the county in which
the person resides for an order, which may be granted ex parte, directing the
alleged perpetrator of the act described in paragraph (1) of subdivision (c) of
Section 530.5 of the Penal Code, if known, and the person using the personal
identifying information in the business entity filing to appear at a hearing
before the court and show cause for both of the following:
(a) Why
the personal identifying information should not be labeled to show the
information is impersonated and does not reflect the person's identity.
(b) Why
the personal identifying information should be associated with the business
entity.”
 
(Civ.
Code, § 1798.201.)
 
“(a) A
petition filed pursuant to Section 1798.201 shall be heard and determined
based on declarations, affidavits, police reports, or other material, relevant,
and reliable information submitted by the parties or ordered to be made part of
the record by the court.
(b) If
the court determines the petition is meritorious and there is no reasonable
cause to believe that the victim's personal identifying information has been
used lawfully in the business entity filing, the court shall make a finding
that the victim's personal identifying information has been used unlawfully in
the business entity filing and shall issue an order certifying this
determination.
(c) Upon
making a determination pursuant to subdivision (b), the court shall do the
following:
(1) Order
the name and associated personal identifying information in the business entity
filing to be redacted or labeled to show that the data is impersonated and does
not reflect the victim's identity.
(2) Order
the data to be removed from publicly accessible electronic indexes and
databases.
(d) A
determination made pursuant to subdivision (b) may be vacated at any time if
the petition or any information submitted in support of the petition is found
to contain any material misrepresentation or was obtained by fraud.
(e) The
Judicial Council shall develop a form for issuing an order of determination
pursuant to this section.
(f) An
order issued pursuant to subdivision (c) shall be filed with the Secretary of
State.”
 
Civ.
Code, § 1798.202
 
The subject motion constitutes a renewed motion. On October
20, 2023, the court considered the prior motion and wrote in relevant part:
 
“Based on the wording of that code section, it appears that
DAGUT Group Inc. is entitled to notice of the hearing and an opportunity to
appear at the hearing on this motion to explain the use of the address. There
is no indication from the paperwork filed by Mr. Kartch that DAGUT Group Inc.
has been served. Before the Court can hear this motion and grant the requested
relief, Mr. Kartch must serve DAGUT Group Inc. 
 
“The Court recognizes that part of the problem is that
Petitioner does not presently know how to serve the person, David Gutierrez,
who appears to have filed the Article of Incorporation that included his
address. Nonetheless, before this Court may adjudicate the matter, the other
parties to be impacted should be given the right to participate in this
proceeding. Further, the showing by Petitioner at this time does not establish
that any personal identifying information about Petitioner has been used. 
...
“The Court will not rule on this motion at this time due to
the failure of Petitioner to serve the person or entity that will be impacted
by the requested order. The Motion is DENIED without prejudice.”
 
In the renewed motion, Kartch articulates the efforts to effect
service on David Gutierrez, purported agent for DAGUT Group, Inc., but the
inability to confirm the identity of the subject David Gutierrez. The court
accepts the basis of the application, but again must defer consideration of the
application unless and until Petitioner can establish compliance with due
process requirements. Given the inability to locate Gutierrez or any other
unique identifying information regarding DAGUT Group Inc., the court directs
Petitioner to seek leave for service by publication.
 
(a) A summons may be served by publication if upon
affidavit it appears to the satisfaction of the court in which the action is
pending that the party to be served cannot with reasonable diligence be served
in another manner specified in this article … 
(c)
Service of a summons in this manner is deemed complete as provided in Section
6064 of the Government Code. ...
(e) As a condition of establishing that the party to be
served cannot with reasonable diligence be served in another manner specified
in this article, the court may not require that a search be conducted of public
databases where access by a registered process server to residential addresses
is prohibited by law or by published policy of the agency providing the
database, including, but not limited to, voter registration rolls and records
of the Department of Motor Vehicles.
 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 415.50.)
 
“Publication
of notice pursuant to this section shall be once a week for four successive
weeks. Four publications in a newspaper regularly published once a week or
oftener, with at least five days intervening between the respective publication
dates not counting such publication dates, are sufficient. The period of notice
commences with the first day of publication and terminates at the end of the
twenty-eighth day, including therein the first day.” (Gov. Code, § 6064.)
 
“If a defendant's address is ascertainable, a method of
service superior to publication must be employed, because constitutional
principles of due process of law, as well as the authorizing statute, require
that service by publication be utilized only as a last resort. (Citations.) … The term 'reasonable diligence ‘...
denotes a thorough, systematic investigation and inquiry conducted in good
faith by the party or his agent or attorney. (Citations.) A number of honest
attempts to learn defendant's whereabouts or his address by inquiry of
relatives, ... and by investigation of appropriate city and telephone
directories, [voter registries, and assessor's office property indices situated
near the defendant's last known location], generally are sufficient. These are
the likely sources of information, and consequently must be searched before
resorting to service by publication.” (Citations.) ‘Before allowing a plaintiff
to resort to service by publication, the courts necessarily require him to show
exhaustive attempts to locate the defendant, for it is generally recognized
that service by publication rarely results in actual notice. (Citations.).’” (Watts v. Crawford (1995) 10 Cal.4th 743, 749
[footnote 5].)
 
The court otherwise declines to make a finding under the
standard for establishing unlawful use of Petitioners information. “Every person who willfully obtains personal identifying
information, as defined in subdivision (b) of Section 530.55, of another
person, and uses that information for any unlawful purpose, including to
obtain, or attempt to obtain, credit, goods, services, real property, or
medical information without the consent of that person, is guilty of a
public offense, and upon conviction therefor, shall be punished by a fine, by
imprisonment in a county jail not to exceed one year, or by both a fine and
imprisonment, or by imprisonment pursuant to
subdivision (h) of Section 1170.” (Pen. Code,
§ 530.5, subd. (a).) The prior court raised similar concern. The court
therefore invites petitioner to present additional evidence in support of the
actual substantive request regarding the necessity for relief. 
 
The court therefore sets a new OSC
re: Hearing on Motion for June 6, 2024. The intention of the continuance is to
allow for Petitioner to seek publication of the petition with NEW hearing date,
meet the minimum four week circulation requirement, including submission of
proof of publication filed with the court, and present a supplemental
declaration regarding unlawful use beyond the simple existence of the address
itself. The court requires the information in order to make both due process
findings and substantive compliance before allowing submission of the order to
the California Secretary of State.
 
Petitioner need not provide notice to himself or the
unserved respondents.
 