 Case Number:  23STCV10162    Hearing Date:   April 10, 2024    Dept:  68 Dept. 68
Date:
4-10-24
Case
#23STCV10162
Trial
Date: Not Set
 
DEMURRER/MOTION TO STRIKE
 
MOVING
PARTY: Defendant, Skyhop Global, LLC
RESPONDING
PARTY: Plaintiff, Alexis Craney-Foster
 
RELIEF
REQUESTED
Demurrer
to the Second Amended Complaint
·        
7th
Cause of Action: Sexual Assault and Battery
·        
12th
Cause of Action: Failure to Provide Meal Breaks in Violation of Labor Code §
226.7
·        
13th
Cause of Action: Failure to Provide Rest Breaks in Violation of Labor Code §
226.7
·        
14th
Cause of Action: Failure to Provide Meal Breaks in Violation of Labor Code §
226.7
·        
15th
Cause of Action: Waiting Time Penalties Pursuant to Labor Code §§ 201 and 203
·        
17th
Cause of Action: Breach of Contract in Violation of Civil Code Section 1549
 
Motion
to Strike
·        
Seventeenth Cause of Action for Breach of
Contract
·        
SECOND AMENDED COMPLAINT, ¶ 36: all references
to “past situation” and “past complaints against her supervisors.”
·        
SECOND AMENDED COMPLAINT, ¶ 137: all references
to “past situation” and “past complaints against her supervisors” under the
Seventh Cause of Action of sexual assault and battery.
·        
SECOND AMENDED COMPLAINT, ¶ 143: all references
to “Individual Defendants” and “they engaged in sexually inappropriate
behavior” under the Seventh Cause of Action of sexual assault and battery.
·        
SECOND AMENDED COMPLAINT, ¶ 144: all references
to “the Individual Defendants’ sexual misconduct” under the Seventh Cause of
Action of sexual assault and battery.
·        
SECOND AMENDED COMPLAINT, ¶ 145: all references
to “the Individual Defendants’ actions” under the Seventh Cause of Action of
sexual assault and battery.
·        
SECOND AMENDED COMPLAINT, ¶ 149: all references
to “Individual Defendants” under the Seventh Cause of Action of sexual assault
and battery.
 
SUMMARY
OF ACTION
Plaintiff Alexis Craney-Foster was an employee of defendant
SkyHop Global LLC from January 8, 2021, through September 27, 2022, as an
airport shuttle driver for airport employees. During the course of employment,
Plaintiff alleges defendant Timothy Boykin began a course of sexually
inappropriate comments and touching. On June 5, 2021, Boykin visited her home,
where he non-consensually engaged in sexual intercourse with Plaintiff while
Plaintiff was intoxicated and incapacitated in her home after normal work
hours.
 
Plaintiff complained about the conduct of Boykin, which
led, at least in part to his dismissal. New supervisor defendant Eros Surla
also allegedly engaged in sexually harassing conduct.

Plaintiff again complained, and was promised $50,000 in exchange for the
execution for a settlement agreement. Plaintiff refused. Plaintiff continued to
report the inappropriate conduct of Surla, but was told no relief was
available. Plaintiff was subsequently terminated. 
 
On May 5, 2023, Plaintiff filed a 17 cause of action
complaint for Disability Discrimination in Violation of the FEHA; Quid
Pro Quo – Sexual Harassment in Violation of the FEHA; Hostile Work Environment
– Sexual Harassment in Violation of the FEHA; Retaliation in Violation of the
FEHA; Failure to Prevent Discrimination, Harassment, and/or Retaliation in
Violation of the FEHA; Negligent Hiring, Retention, and/or Supervision; Sexual
Assault and Battery; Failure to Provide Reasonable Accommodations in Violation
of the FEHA; Failure to Engage in the Interactive Process in Violation of the
FEHA; Wrongful Termination in Violation of Public Policy; Retaliation in
Violation of Labor Code §§ 1102.5; Failure to Provide Meal Breaks in Violation
of Labor Code § 226.7; Failure to Provide Rest Breaks in Violation of Labor
Code § 226.7; Failure to Provide Accurate Wage Statements in Violation of Labor
Code § 226; Waiting Time Penalties Pursuant to Labor Code §§ 201 and 203;
Failure to Permit Inspection of Personnel File and Payroll Records in Violation
of Labor Code §§ 226(c), 226(f), 432, and 1198.5; and, Breach of Contract in
Violation of Civil Code Section 1549. On September 5, 2023, the court sustained
the demurrer to the seventeenth cause of action in the complaint with leave to
amend. 
 
On September 25, 2023, Plaintiff filed a 16 cause of action first
amended complaint for Disability Discrimination in Violation of the FEHA; Quid
Pro Quo – Sexual Harassment in Violation of the FEHA; Hostile Work Environment
– Sexual Harassment in Violation of the FEHA; Retaliation in Violation of the
FEHA; Failure to Prevent Discrimination, Harassment, and/or Retaliation in
Violation of the FEHA; Negligent Hiring, Retention, and/or Supervision; Sexual
Assualt and Battery; Failure to Provide Reasonable Accommodations in Violation
of the FEHA; Failure to Engage in the Interactive Process in Violation of the
FEHA; Wrongful Termination in Violation of Public Policy; Retaliation in
Violation of Labor Code §§ 1102.5; Failure to Provide Meal Breaks in Violation
of Labor Code § 226.7; 13; Failure to Provide Rest Breaks in Violation of Labor
Code § 226.7; Failure to Provide Accurate Wage Statements in Violation of Labor
Code § 226; 15. Waiting Time Penalties Pursuant to Labor Code §§ 201 and 203;
and, Failure to Permit Inspection of Personnel File and Payroll Records in
Violation of Labor Code §§ 226(c), 226(f), 432, and 1198.5. On December 14,
2023, the court sustained the demurrer to the seventh cause of action in the
first amended complaint, and granted the motion to strike allegations in regard
to the conduct of Boykin without leave to amend.
 
On January 3, 2024, Plaintiff filed a second amended
complaint for Disability Discrimination in Violation of the FEHA; Quid Pro Quo
– Sexual Harassment in Violation of the FEHA; Hostile Work Environment – Sexual
Harassment in Violation of the FEHA; Retaliation in Violation of the FEHA;
Failure to Prevent Discrimination, Harassment, and/or Retaliation in Violation
of the FEHA; Negligent Hiring, Retention, and/or Supervision; Sexual Assault
and Battery; Failure to Provide Reasonable Accommodations in Violation of the
FEHA; Failure to Engage in the Interactive Process in Violation of the FEHA; Wrongful
Termination in Violation of Public Policy; Retaliation in Violation of Labor
Code §§ 1102.5; Failure to Provide Meal Breaks in Violation of Labor Code §
226.7; Failure to Provide Rest Breaks in Violation of Labor Code § 226.7;
Failure to Provide Accurate Wage Statements in Violation of Labor Code § 226;
Waiting Time Penalties Pursuant to Labor Code §§ 201 and 203; and, Failure to
Permit Inspection of Personnel File and Payroll Records in Violation of Labor
Code §§ 226(c), 226(f), 432, and 1198.5; Breach of Contract in Violation of
Civil Code Section 1549.
 
RULING
Demurrer: Sustained
without Leave to Amend in Part/Overruled in Part
SkyHop
Global, LLC (SkyHop) submits a demurrer to the seventh cause of action for
sexual assault and battery, as well challenges to the twelfth, thirteenth,
fourteenth, fifteenth, and seventeenth causes of action for Failure to Provide
Meal Breaks in Violation of Labor Code § 226.7, Failure to Provide Rest Breaks
in Violation of Labor Code § 226.7, Failure to Provide Meal Breaks in Violation
of Labor Code § 226.7, Waiting Time Penalties Pursuant to Labor Code §§ 201 and
203, and Breach of Contract in Violation of Civil Code Section 1549, as to
individual defendants Boykin, Surla, Leviett, Murad, and Anderson.
 
In
both demurrers to the complaint and first amended complaint, SkyHop only
challenged the seventh cause of action for sexual assault and battery. SkyHop
never previously raised any challenges to the wage and hour claims as to any
individual defendant, and only now raises the argument, though the claims
against all defendants existed since the filing of the complaint. 
 
“A party demurring to a pleading that has been amended after a
demurrer to an earlier version of the pleading was sustained shall not demur to
any portion of the amended complaint, cross-complaint, or answer on grounds
that could have been raised by demurrer to the earlier version of the
complaint, cross-complaint, or answer. (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.41, subd. (b).)
The piecemeal demurrer on behalf of individual defendants to the twelfth,
thirteenth, fourteenth, fifteenth, and seventeenth causes of action for Failure
to Provide Meal Breaks in Violation of Labor Code § 226.7, Failure to Provide
Rest Breaks in Violation of Labor Code § 226.7, Failure to Provide Meal Breaks
in Violation of Labor Code § 226.7, Waiting Time Penalties Pursuant to Labor
Code §§ 201 and 203, and Breach of Contract in Violation of Civil Code Section
1549, as to individual defendants Boykin, Surla, Leviett, Murad, and Anderson
will NOT be considered. The demurrer to the subject causes of action is
OVERRULED without further substantive consideration.
 
On
the seventh cause of action for Sexual Assault and Battery, SkyHop contends the
operative complaint lacks facts to establish a basis of vicarious liability,
thereby supporting the claim. Plaintiff in opposition maintains the numerous
reported incidents of workplace unwelcome sexual contact, and the failure to
remedy the situation, renders the employer liable. SkyHop in reply reiterates
the lack of facts supporting the vicarious liability claim. 
 
A demurrer is an objection to a pleading, the grounds for
which are apparent from either the face of the complaint or a matter of which
the court may take judicial notice. (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.30, subd. (a); see
also Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d
311, 318.) The purpose of a demurrer is to challenge the sufficiency of a
pleading “by raising questions of law.” (Postley
v. Harvey (1984) 153 Cal.App.3d 280, 286.) “In the construction of a
pleading, for the purpose of determining its effect, its allegations must be
liberally construed, with a view to substantial justice between the parties.”
(Code Civ. Proc., § 452.) The court “ ‘ “treat[s] the demurrer as admitting all
material facts properly pleaded, but not contentions, deductions or conclusions
of fact or law . . . .” ’ ” (Berkley v.
Dowds (2007) 152 Cal.App.4th 518, 525.) In applying these standards, the
court liberally construes the complaint to determine whether a cause of action
has been stated.  (Picton v. Anderson Union High School Dist. (1996) 50 Cal.App.4th
726, 733.)
 
The standard for determining
whether uninvited sexual contact constitutes an action within the course and
scope of employment brought forth extensive consideration from the California
Supreme Court. (Farmers Ins. Group v. County of
Santa Clara (1995) 11 Cal.4th 992.) “‘[A]n employer is
liable for risks “arising out of the employment.” [Citations.] [¶] A risk
arises out of the employment when 'in the context of the particular enterprise
an employee's conduct is not so unusual or startling that it would seem unfair
to include the loss resulting from it among other costs of the employer's
business. [Citations.] In other words, where the question is one of vicarious
liability, the inquiry should be whether the risk was one “that may fairly be
regarded as typical of or broadly incidental” to the enterprise undertaken by
the employer. ...’” [¶] ‘“One way to determine whether a risk is inherent in,
or created by, an enterprise is to ask whether the actual occurrence was a
generally foreseeable consequence of the activity. ... [¶] In California, the
scope of employment has been interpreted broadly under the respondeat superior
doctrine.” (Id., at pp. 1003-1004 (internal quotation marks omitted).)
 
“[T]he law is
clear that an employer is not strictly liable for all actions of its employees
during working hours. Significantly, an employer will not be held
vicariously liable for an employee's malicious or tortious conduct if the
employee substantially deviates from the employment duties
for personal purposes. (Citation.) Thus, if the employee ‘inflicts an
injury out of personal malice, not engendered by the employment’ (Citation) or
acts out of ‘personal malice unconnected with the employment’ (Citation), or
if the misconduct is not an ‘outgrowth’ of the employment (Citation),
the employee is not acting within the scope of employment. Stated another way,
‘[i]f an employee's tort is personal in nature, mere presence at the place of
employment and attendance to occupational duties prior or subsequent to the
offense will not give rise to a cause of action against the employer under the
doctrine of respondeat superior.’ (Citation.) In such cases, the losses do not
foreseeably result from the conduct of the employer's enterprise and so are not
fairly attributable to the employer as a cost of doing business.” (Id. at pp. 1004–1005.)
 
Where an
employee pursues his own ends, the use of property or facilities entrusted to
him by the principal is an inadequate basis for imputing liability to the
employer ... The mere fact that an employee has the opportunity to abuse
facilities necessary to the performance of his duties does not render an
employer vicariously liable for the abuse. [¶] Nor does the fact that the
offense occurred during working hours make [the perpetrator’s] action
incidental to his employment. .... If an employee's tort is personal in nature,
mere presence at the place of employment and attendance to occupational duties
prior or subsequent to the offense will not give rise to a cause of action
against the employer under the doctrine of respondeat superior. (Alma W. v. Oakland Unified School Dist. (1981) 123 Cal.App.3d 133, 140.)
 
The second amended complaint alleges
Plaintiff entering the office of Surla, whereby Surla initiated unwelcomed
sexual contact with Plaintiff [Sec. Amend. Comp., ¶¶ 128-129], and proceeded to
make lewd comments [Sec. Amend. Comp., ¶¶ ,130, 132]. The remainder of the
cause of action alleges reporting the actions of Surla, with no follow-up
investigation or disciplinary action occurring [Sec. Amend. Comp., ¶¶ 134-135,
137], Plaintiff’s termination from employment [Sec. Amend. Comp., ¶¶ 139], and legal
statements regarding vicarious liability [Sec. Amend. Comp., ¶¶ 143-149].
 
The court
finds the latest iterations of the subject cause of action in no way establishes
conduct within the course and scope of employment for purposes of establishing
vicarious liability. (See Farmers Ins. Group v. County of Santa Clara, supra,
11 Cal.4th at p. 1005; see Mary M. v. City of Los Angeles (1991) 54 Cal.3d 202, 219.) In a review of all three
complaints, consideration of all factual circumstances alleged, and the
applicable legal standard, the court finds no basis for further leave to amend.
The court concludes Plaintiff cannot state a legal basis for the instant cause
of action against SkyHop without omitting or altering material key facts,
thereby otherwise constituting a sham pleading. (See Code Civ. Proc., § 430.41,
subd. (e)(1); Youngman v. Nevada Irr. Dist. (1969) 70 Cal.2d 240, 245.) The
demurrer is therefore sustained without leave to amend. 
 
 
Motion to Strike: Granted in Part/Moot in Part/Denied in Part
SkyHop moves to strike the following:
Seventeenth Cause of Action for Breach of Contract; Second
Amended Complaint, ¶ 36: all references to “past situation” and “past
complaints against her supervisors”; Second Amended Complaint, ¶ 137: all
references to “past situation” and “past complaints against her supervisors”
under the Seventh Cause of Action of sexual assault and battery; Second Amended
Complaint, ¶ 143: all references to “Individual Defendants” and “they engaged
in sexually inappropriate behavior” under the Seventh Cause of Action of sexual
assault and battery; Second Amended Complaint, ¶ 144: all references to “the
Individual Defendants’ sexual misconduct” under the Seventh Cause of Action of
sexual assault and battery; Second Amended Complaint, ¶ 145: all references to
“the Individual Defendants’ actions” under the Seventh Cause of Action of
sexual assault and battery; and, Second Amended Complaint, ¶ 149: all
references to “Individual Defendants” under the Seventh Cause of Action of
sexual assault and battery.
 
On paragraphs 137, 143, 144, 145, and 149, the motion to strike is MOOT
based on the demurrer sustaining the sexual assault and battery cause of action
without leave to amend, as to SkyHop.
 
On the individual defendants within the sexual assault and battery cause
of action, the motion to strike is DENIED due to the failure to raise the
arguments in any of the prior challenges to the motion. (Code Civ. Proc., § 435.5, subd. (b).)
 
On the seventeenth cause of action for breach of contract, SkyHop
challenges the cause of action as added without leave of court. “Following an order sustaining a demurrer
or a motion for judgment on the pleadings with leave to amend, the plaintiff
may amend his or her complaint only as authorized by the court's
order. (Citation.) The plaintiff may not amend the complaint to add a new
cause of action without having obtained permission to do so, unless the new
cause of action is within the scope of the order granting leave to amend.” (Harris
v. Wachovia Mortgage, FSB (2010) 185 Cal.App.4th 1018, 1023.) People By and Through Dept. of
Public Works v. Clausen (1967) 248 Cal.App.2d 770, 785; see Zakk v. Diesel (2019) 33
Cal.App.5th 431, 456; Patrick v. Alacer Corp. (2008) 167 Cal.App.4th 995, 1015.) Plaintiff offers no
apparent defense to the argument.
 
A review of the prior court orders
shows no leave to amend to add in the subject cause and in fact an instruction
to Plaintiff to move for leave to amend on December 14, 2023. Plaintiff again
elected to forego seeking leave to amend. Again, the subject motion constitutes
the third review of the subject action. While the court undertakes no
consideration of the merits of the subject cause of action, the addition of the
cause of action after voluntarily omitting it from the first amended complaint,
combined with the continued failure to remedy the alleged omission, leads to
the conclusion that Plaintiff elects to not follow procedure. The court
therefore grants the motion to strike the seventeenth cause of action with
prejudice/without leave to amend. (Code Civ. Proc., § 435.5, subd. (e)(1).)
 
Finally on paragraph, SkyHop moves to strike paragraph 36
regarding all references to “past situation” and “past complaints against her
supervisors” on the basis that a settlement agreement bars such claims. Plaintiff
presents an extensive argument regarding protections barring victims from
addressing sexual violence claims. 
 
The court finds no reference to said settlement agreement in
the operative complaint, and otherwise declines to consider extrinsic inference
or facts barring a showing within the operative pleading regarding support for
the argument. The motion to strike is therefore DENIED on this item. 
 
In summary, the demurer is sustained without leave to amend as to the
seventh cause of action for sexual assault and battery as to demurring
defendant only and overruled as to the remainder. The motion to strike is moot
as to all allegations within the sexual assault and battery claim. The motion
to strike the seventeenth cause of action is granted with prejudice/without
leave to amend. The motion to strike portions of paragraph 36 of the second
amended complaint, and the claims against the individual defendants, is denied.
SkyHop to answer the remaining portions of the operative pleading within 10
days of this order.
 
Multiple motions to quash will be heard on June 11 and 13,
2024, as well as the Case Management Conference.
 
Defendant to provide notice.
 