 Case Number:  22STCV20465    Hearing Date:   December 12, 2023    Dept:  78 Superior Court of California County of Los Angeles Department 78  ROSA STEPHENSON,Plaintiff, vs. POMONA HEALTHCARE & WELLNESS CENER, LLC, et al., Defendants.  Case No.:  22STCV20465 Hearing Date:  December 12, 2023    [TENTATIVE] RULING RE:  PLAINITFF’S MOTION TO COMPEL FURTHER RESPONSES TO REQUESTS FOR ADMISSION, SET ONE BY DEFENDANT POMONA HEALTHCARE AND WELLNESSPlaintiff’s Motion to Compel Defendant Pomona Healthcare’s further responses to Request for Admissions, Set One is GRANTED. Additionally, Plaintiff’s motion to compel Pomona Healthcare’s further response to FROG 17.1 is GRANTED.Defendant is ordered to serve verified responses without objections within 10 days after the date of this order. Sanctions in the amount of $2,310 are imposed against Defendant. Sanctions are payable within 10 days after the date of this order.Moving party to provide notice and to file proof of service of such notice within five court days after the date of this order.FACTUAL BACKGROUNDThis is an action for elder abuse and negligent hiring. Plaintiffs allege that Decedent Rosa Stephenson was a patient at Park Avenue Healthcare & Wellness Center in Pomona, California in February 2022. Defendants failed to turn Decedent every two hours to avoid the development of pressure sores, causing Plaintiff to develop severe pressure sores. Defendants’ facility was understaffed and there were no employees who could assess and treat Plaintiffs’ skin conditions. After Plaintiff was discharged from the facility, the facility was investigated by the California Department of Public Health, which found that the facility had violated federal regulations.PROCEDURAL HISTORY On June 22, 2022, Rosa Stephenson filed her Complaint against Pomona Healthcare & Wellness, LLC (“Pomona Healthcare”), Pomona Nursing & Healthcare Centre, LLC, Brius Management Co., and Rockport Administrative Services, LLC.On August 15, 2022, Defendants answered.On December 20, 2022, the parties participated in IDC.On December 23, 2022, Rosa Stephenson passed away and the action was temporarily abated.On August 3, 2023, the parties again participated in IDC.On August 18, 2023, Plaintiff Penny Lyles, individually and as successor in interest to Rosa Stephenson, filed this motion to compel Pomona Healthcare’s further responses to Request for Admissions, Set One.DISCUSSION Request for Admissions (“RFAs”), set one. I. Legal StandardUnder Code of Civil Procedure, section 2030.300, the Court may order a responding party to serve a further response to interrogatories when the Court finds that any of the following apply: (1) the answer to a particular interrogatory is incomplete or evasive, (2) the exercise of the option to produce documents is unwarranted or the required specification of those documents is improper or inadequate, or (3) that an objection to an interrogatory is without merit or too general. Such a motion “shall be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration under Section 2016.040,” which “shall state facts showing a reasonable and good faith attempt at an informal resolution of each issue presented by the motion.” (Code Civ. Proc., sections 2016.040, 2030.300(b)(1).) Code Civ. Proc., section 2030.300, subdivision (d) authorizes a mandatory issuance of sanctions against “any party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel a further response to interrogatories, unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.”  (Code Civ. Proc., section 2030.300, subd. (d).) II. DiscussionPlaintiff moves to compel Pomona Healthcare’s further responses to RFA number 6.Pomona Healthcare originally served responses to Plaintiff’s Form Interrogatories (“FROGs”), Set One on December 9, 2022. (Motion, Exh. 2.) Plaintiff’s counsel testifies that the parties participated in IDC in December 2022 and agreed Pomona Healthcare would provide supplemental responses to RFA 6. (Partain Decl., ¶4.) However, the parties’ proposed order was never signed because Rosa Stephenson passed away shortly after the IDC. (Id.) At the August 3, 2023 IDC, Pomona Healthcare again agreed to provide further responses and failed to do so. (Id., ¶5.) Pomona Healthcare represents that it has already served a supplemental response to RFA 6. However, as Plaintiff points out, the supplemental response is not verified. Therefore, it is tantamount to no response at all, and the operative response is still the original response served in December 2022.Plaintiff seeks further responses to RFA 6, which states “Please admit that the PLAINTIFF did not develop any pressure sores while she was a resident at the FACILITY.” Pomona Healthcare objected on the grounds that the term “develop any pressure sores” is vague. However, the term is not vague and refers to the pressure sores Plaintiff alleges Decedent suffered while she was under Defendant’s care. Therefore, Pomona Healthcare’s objection is without merit. The motion is granted.Plaintiff also previously moved to compel Pomona Healthcare’s further responses to FROG number 17.1, which asked whether its responses to RFAs were unqualified admissions. Pomona Healthcare provided no response with respect to RFA 6. Because Pomona Healthcare is not required to respond to RFA 6, Pomona Healthcare must also provide a response to FROG number 17.1 with respect to RFA 6.Sanctions are mandatory because Pomona Healthcare unsuccessfully opposed this motion. Plaintiff’s request for $2,310 in sanctions is granted.DATED:  December 12, 2023______________________Hon. Jill Feeney Judge of the Superior Court