 Case Number:  23SMCV00723    Hearing Date:   July 9, 2024    Dept:  I The motion to set aside the default is DENIED.   
 
This is a fraud case. 
Defendant was properly served with the complaint and demurred to
it.  On September 14, 2023, the demurrer
was overruled.  Defendant Coti Williams
participated in the hearing remotely.  At
the time the demurrer was overruled, the court specifically informed
defendant—eardrum to eardrum—that she had 30 days to answer the complaint.  Plaintiff waited about 60 days before seeking
a default and later a default judgment. 
The default was entered as against the two individual defendants, but
not the entity defendant, which had not been served properly.  The court docket clearly and unambiguously
reflects that dichotomy.  On December 8,
2023, Williams contacted plaintiff and stated that she had a lawyer for
herself, but not the entity.  On January
18, 2024, plaintiff served defendants with ex parte notice relating to
the entity defendant.  Defendants did not
appear at the ex parte.  On
January 31, 2024, defendants filed an answer. 
The answer was filed as to the entity defendant—which was not in default
but it was not accepted as to the individual defendants, as the default
precluded them from answering.  On June
7, 2024, the court held a hearing.  A
person appeared who stated that he was a lawyer but did not actually say he
represented defendants.  He did say that
defendants intended to litigate the case. 
The court advised that person that if a motion to vacate was going to be
filed, it should be done quickly.  Ten
days later, on June 17, 2024, the instant motion was filed.
 
Given the situation, the answer filed on January 31, 2024,
is ineffective as to the individual defendants. 
They were already in default and therefore could not answer.  It was effective as to the entity, although
it appears that the entity is not a real entity.  Williams was served with the default on
November 20, 2023, which was long after the time that an answer was due.
 
Williams asserts mistake or excusable neglect.  There is neither.  The court specifically told Williams on
September 14, 2023, that she had to file an answer within 30 days or she could
be defaulted.  There was no ambiguity in
the court’s instruction and Williams certainly did not seem confused by
it.  Nothing in the moving papers suggest
any basis for any confusion on that score. 
Plaintiff could have sought a default 31 days after that hearing, but in
an abundance of caution plaintiff waited 60 days.  And after obtaining default, plaintiff served
defendants with notice of it on November 20, 2023.  Again, there could be no confusion and the
court’s docket is clear that the default was entered as against the individuals.  Further, even if defendants truly and
honestly believed that they had filed an answer on January 31, 2024, at most it
might give rise to an explanation for the delay between then and June, although
given the actual docket the court does not think so.  But defendants offer no justification for the
failure to file an answer as specifically instructed by the court or not moving
to vacate the default in the over two months after notice of default was
given.  Defendants were not misled and
there was no mistake.  The court finds
that the delay was deliberate and tactical. 
Accordingly, the motion to set aside is DENIED.  The court also notes that the motion was not
filed within 180 days of entry of the default, which makes it untimely under
CCP section 473(b).
 
Given that, the court will enter the default judgment.  The court finds the judgment to be proper
other than the punitive damages.  The
amount of punitive damages is not set forth in the complaint (which is
proper—setting a precise amount is not allowed), and no Statement of Damages
was served prior to entry of the default. 
Plaintiff notes that the various defaults all included the amount sought,
but that is not enough.  By the time
defendants got those documents, the default had already been entered.  Further, the court is not satisfied that
there has been an adequate showing of defendants’ financial state.  Plaintiff did find some internet evidence
that one of the defendants (“Pep”) is a photographer who has offered pictures
for sale at very significant prices.  But
there is no evidence that any of the pictures actually sold for those amounts
or what assets the defendants (or either of them) actually has, or any evidence
as to what liabilities they have.  There
is simply not enough information to justify a punitive damages award.
 
Therefore, plaintiff has a choice.  It can accept a default judgment in the
amount sought except for punitive damages or it can vacate the default, file a
statement of damages, and litigate.  If
plaintiffs choose the former option, they should submit a revised proposed
default judgment promptly, such as within 20 days.