  Case Number:  23STCV23900    Hearing Date:   August 14, 2024    Dept:  51 Tentative Ruling   Judge Upinder S.  Kalra, Department 51   HEARING DATE:   August  14, 2024                                                 CASE NAME:           Pascual  Salgado Espinoza, et al. v. Rosecrans Avenue Property LLC, et al.   CASE NO.:                23STCV23900    DEMURRER  TO FIRST AMENDED COMPLAINT   MOVING PARTY:  Defendant  Hwy 111 Hotel Group LP   RESPONDING PARTY(S): Plaintiffs Pascual Salgado  Espinoza, et al.   REQUESTED RELIEF:    1.      Demurrer  to the First Cause of Action of the First Amended Complaint as to Plaintiffs  Uriel Salgado Vega, Azmabeth Mesa, and Alma Meza for failure to state  sufficient facts constituting a cause of action (failure to plead contract); 2.      Demurrer  to the Second Cause of Action of the First Amended Complaint as to Plaintiffs  Uriel Salgado Vega, Azmabeth Mesa, and Alma Meza for failure to state  sufficient facts constituting a cause of action (lacks particularity); 3.      Demurrer  to the Third Cause of Action of the First Amended Complaint as to Plaintiffs  Uriel Salgado Vega, Azmabeth Mesa, and Alma Meza for failure to state  sufficient facts constituting a cause of action (failure to plead contract); 4.      Demurrer  to the Fourth Cause of Action of the First Amended Complaint as to Plaintiffs  Uriel Salgado Vega, Azmabeth Mesa, and Alma Meza for failure to state  sufficient facts constituting a cause of action (lacks particularity); 5.      Demurrer  to the Fifth Cause of Action of the First Amended Complaint as to Plaintiffs  Uriel Salgado Vega, Azmabeth Mesa, and Alma Meza for failure to state  sufficient facts constituting a cause of action (lacks particularity); 6.      Demurrer  to the Sixth Cause of Action of the First Amended Complaint as to Plaintiffs  Uriel Salgado Vega, Azmabeth Mesa, and Alma Meza for failure to state  sufficient facts constituting a cause of action (duplicative of fourth cause of  action); and 7.      Demurrer  to the Seventh Cause of Action of the First Amended Complaint as to Plaintiffs  Uriel Salgado Vega, Azmabeth Mesa, and Alma Meza for failure to state  sufficient facts constituting a cause of action (lacks particularity).     TENTATIVE RULING:    1.      Hwy 101’s Demurrer is OVERRULED as  to the Fourth Cause of Action and SUSTAINED as to the remaining  causes of action. STATEMENT OF MATERIAL FACTS AND/OR PROCEEDINGS:    On October 2, 2023, Plaintiffs Pascual Salgado Espinoza,  Blanca Salgado Vega, Edgar Salgado Vega, Uriel Salgado Vega, a minor by and  through his guardian ad litem Pascual Salgado Espinoza, Abisai Meza, Jennifer  Salgado, Azmabeth Meza, a minor by and through her guardian ad litem Jennifer  Salgado, and Alma Meza, a minor by and through his guardian ad litem Jeniffer  Salgado (Plaintiffs) filed a Complaint against Defendants Rosecrans Avenue  Property LLC and Hwy 111 Hotel Group LP (Defendants) with sixth causes of  action for: (1) Breach of Implied Warranty of Habitability; (2) Breach of  Statutory Warranty of Habitability; (3) Breach of the Covenant of Quiet  Enjoyment; (4) Negligence; (5) Violation of Civil Code Section 1942.4; and (6)  Private Nuisance.   According to the Complaint, Defendant Rosecrans Avenue  Property LLC (Rosecrans) owned and managed the subject property, 1750 E. Kay  St., Compton, CA 90211 (the Property) from September 19, 2019 to present and  Defendant Hwy 101 Hotel Group LP (Hwy 101) managed the Property from May 10,  2018 to September 19, 2019. Plaintiffs were tenants at the Property and allege  that Defendants failed to keep the Property in a habitable condition. These  conditions include electrical deficiencies, plumbing deficiencies, lack of hot  water, water leaks, floors and walls containing mold and mildew, insect  infestations, pest infestations, security and safety deficiencies, storage  deficiencies, and loss of use for various time periods.     On October 31, 2023, Plaintiffs filed the operative First  Amended Complaint (FAC) against the same Defendants.[1]  However, Plaintiffs added a seventh cause of action for Violation of Unfair  Competition Law (Bus. & Prof. Code §§ 17200-09). Plaintiffs also added  additional Plaintiffs: Yesenia Amaro, Kiarra Drew, Ruben Rodriguez, Allal Santo  III, a minor by and through his guardian ad litem Yesenia Amaro, Miguel  Estrada, Porche Cherelle Johnson, Mason Herrera Velasquez, a minor by and  through his guardian ad litem Jesus Herrera, Ignacio Alejandro Rubio, Elisa  Rosales, Amalia Melendez Laria, Adrian Heredia, Cristal Heredia, Naomi Heredia,  a minor by and through her guardian ad litem Adrian Heredia, Esther Heredia, a  minor by and through her guardian ad litem Adrian Heredia, Victor Guerro,  Karina Gallardo, Victor Guerrero, Jr., a minor by and through his guardian ad  litem Victor Guerro, Kaylie Guerrero, a minor by and through her guardian ad  litem Victor Guerrero, Evelyn Guerrero, a minor by and through her guardian ad  litem Victor Guerrero, Idolina Suastegui, Emiliana Gallardo, Eliseo Gallardo,  Marcelo Lorenzo, and Marlin Martinez. These additional Plaintiffs bring this  Action against Rosecrans only. (FAC ¶ 3.)   On December 20, 2023, Plaintiff Mason Herrera Velasquez  filed a Request for Dismissal as to Hwy 101 only.    On January 19, 2024, Plaintiffs filed an Amendment to  Complaint changing Doe 1 to Inspiration Property Management, LLC.   On January 25, 2024, Plaintiffs filed an Amendment to  Complaint changing Doe 2 to Inspiration Property Management, Inc.   On January 25, 2024, Plaintiffs filed a Request for  Dismissal as to Defendant Inspiration Property Management, LLC.   On April 2, 2024, Defendant Rosecrans filed an Answer and  Cross-Complaint.   On April 15, 2024, Plaintiffs filed a Request for Dismissal  as to Defendant Inspiration Property Management, Inc. only.   On May 10, 2024, Hwy 101 filed the instant Demurrer to the  FAC.   On June 14, 2024, Hwy 101 filed an Answer to Rosecrans’  Cross-Complaint and filed its own Cross-Complaint.   On June 24, 2024, Rosecrans filed an Answer to Hwy 101’s  Cross-Complaint.   On July 31, 2024, Plaintiffs filed an Opposition to Hwy  101’s Demurrer to the FAC. On August 6, 2024, Hwy 101 filed a reply.   LEGAL STANDARD:    Meet and Confer  ¿  Prior to filing a demurrer, the demurring party is required  to satisfy their meet and confer obligations pursuant to Code of Civ. Proc.  §430.41, and demonstrate that they so satisfied their meet and confer  obligation by submitting a declaration pursuant to Code of Civ. Proc.  §430.41(a)(2) & (3). The parties met and conferred telephonically on April  3, 2024 and were unable to resolve the issues. (Declaration of Jeffrey J.  Gillard ¶¶ 5-6.)    Demurrer¿  ¿  A demurrer for sufficiency tests whether the complaint  states a cause of action.¿(Hahn v. Mirda¿(2007)  147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747.) When considering demurrers, courts read the  allegations liberally and in context.¿In a demurrer proceeding, the defects  must be apparent on the face of the pleading or via proper judicial notice.¿(Donabedian v. Mercury Ins. Co. (2004)  116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994.)¿“A demurrer tests the pleadings alone and not the  evidence or other extrinsic matters. …. The only issue involved in a demurrer  hearing is whether the complaint, as it stands, unconnected with extraneous  matters, states a cause of action.”¿(Hahn¿147  Cal.App.4th at 747.)¿    When considering demurrers, courts read the allegations  liberally and in context, accepting the alleged facts as true. (Nolte v. Cedars-Sinai Medical Center  (2015) 236 Cal.App.4th 1401, 1406.) Courts also consider exhibits attached to  the complaint and incorporated by reference. (See Frantz v. Blackwell (1987) 189 Cal.App.3d 91, 94 (Frantz).)    Request  for Judicial Notice   The court grants Plaintiffs’ request  for judicial notice as to Exhibits A & B. (Evid. Code § 452(d),  (h); See Kalnoki v. First American  Trustee Servicing Solutions, LLC (2017) 8 Cal.App.5th 23,37.) However, the  court only takes judicial notice of the foregoing documents only as to “the  existence, content and authenticity of public records and other specified  documents”; it does not take judicial notice of the truth of the factual  matters asserted in those documents. (Dominguez  v. Bonta (2022) 87 Cal. App. 5th 389, 400.)¿   ANALYSIS:    First Cause of  Action – Breach of Implied Warranty of Habitability   Hwy 101 contends that Plaintiffs failed to sufficiently  plead a contract and failed to plead facts with reasonable precision. Namely, Hwy  101 does not know which substandard condition(s) presented during their tenancy  and their duration. Plaintiffs argue that they are not required to plead their  claim with such specificity since Hwy 101 already knows this information.[2]  Plaintiffs additionally argue they plead the legal effect of the lease which is  sufficient and that Hwy 101 can determine the scope of the uninhabitable  conditions during discovery if they do not already possess that information.[3]  Plaintiffs otherwise argue they sufficiently plead a claim for breach of the  implied warranty of habitability.  Hwy  101 replies that Plaintiffs are actually in the better position to identify  pertinent facts because they allegedly lived in the unit with the habitability  problems.   “[P]ublic policy compels landlords to bear the primary  responsibility for maintaining safe, clean and habitable housing in our state.”  (Erlach v. Sierra Asset Servicing, LLC (2014)  226 Cal.App.4th 1281, 1296.) As such, “there is a warranty of habitability  implied in residential leases in California.” (Ibid.) The elements of a cause of action for breach of the implied  warranty of habitability “are the existence of a material defective condition  affecting the premises' habitability, notice to the landlord of the condition  within a reasonable time after the tenant's discovery of the condition, the  landlord was given a reasonable time to correct the deficiency, and resulting  damages.” (Peviani v. Arbors at  California Oaks Property Owner, LLC (2021) 62 Cal.App.5th 874, 891 review  denied (July 14, 2021)). A violation of a statutory housing standard that  affects health and safety is a strong indication of a materially defective  condition. (Ibid.)¿¿    Upon reviewing the FAC, the court agrees that Plaintiffs  insufficiently alleged a claim for breach of the implied warranty of  habitability. Simply stated, Plaintiffs failed to allege that they notified  their landlord, in this instance Hwy 101, of the defective condition(s) within  a reasonable time after they discovered the condition and that their landlord  had a reasonable time to correct the deficiencies. The court declines to  develop the other arguments now.   Accordingly, the court SUSTAINS the demurrer as to the  First Cause of Action with leave to amend.   Second Cause of  Action – Breach of Statutory Warranty of Habitability   Hwy 101 contends that Plaintiffs failed to plead their  statutory claim with the requisite particularity. Specifically, Hwy 101  contends that Plaintiffs failed to cite the provisions of Civil Code § 1941 and  Health and Safety Code § 17920.3 that apply or the time periods they allegedly  violated said provisions. Plaintiffs argue that they have sufficiently alleged  statutory breaches, that Evidence Code § 699 codifies the doctrine of  negligence per se, and that the statutes show duty of care and breach.   Civil Code 1941.1 provides that a “dwelling shall be deemed  untenantable” for purposes of this statute “if it substantially lacks any” of  the following:  “(1) Effective waterproofing and  weather protection of roof and exterior walls, including unbroken windows and  doors. (2) Plumbing or gas facilities that conformed to applicable law in  effect at the time of installation, maintained in good working order. (3) A  water supply approved under applicable law that is under the control of the  tenant, capable of producing hot and cold running water, or a system that is  under the control of the landlord, that produced hot and cold running water,  furnished to appropriate fixtures, and connected to a sewage disposal system  approved under applicable law. (4) Heating facilities that conformed with  applicable law at the time of installation, maintained in good working order.  (5) Electrical lighting, with wiring and electrical equipment that conformed  with applicable law at the time of installation, maintained in good working  order. (6) Building, grounds, and appurtenances at the time of the commencement  of the lease or rental agreement, and all areas under control of the landlord,  kept in every part clean, sanitary, and free from all accumulations of debris,  filth, rubbish, garbage, rodents, and vermin. (7) An adequate number of  appropriate receptacles for garbage and rubbish, in clean condition and good  repair at the time of the commencement of the lease or rental agreement, with  the landlord providing appropriate serviceable receptacles thereafter and being  responsible for the clean condition and good repair of the receptacles under  his or her control. (8) Floors, stairways, and railings maintained in good  repair. (9) A locking mail receptacle for each residential unit in a  residential hotel . . . .” (Civ. Code § 1941.1(a)(1-9).)   Health & Safety Code 17920.3 identifies numerous  conditions rendering a “building or portion thereof” substandard.    As above, Plaintiffs failed to sufficiently allege facts  supporting a claim for breach of warranty of habitability. Namely, Plaintiffs  allege that Hwy 101 had “repeated notice, both actual and constructive” and  that their “failure to comply with the relevant habitability statutes can be  interpreted as reckless or intentional refusal to comply with obligations  imposed by statutes.” (FAC ¶ 17.) These are not facts but argument.   Accordingly, the court SUSTAINS the demurrer to the  Second Cause of Action with leave to amend.   Third Cause of  Action – Breach of the Covenant of Quiet Enjoyment   Hwy 101 contends that the minor Plaintiffs have not  sufficiently alleged they were/are parties to the lease of the Property.  Plaintiffs argue that they sufficiently alleged this claim.   The implied covenant of quiet enjoyment is breached when  there is an eviction, actual or constructive, of the tenant.  (Marchese v. Standard Realty &  Development Co. (1977) 74 Cal.App.3d 142, 148.) Actual eviction occurs when  there is an expulsion or ouster of the tenant by the landlord.  (Giraud v. Milovich (1938) 29 Cal.App.2d  543.) Constructive eviction occurs when there is a substantial and material  interference with the tenant’s beneficial use and enjoyment of the premises,  causing the tenant to vacate.  (Stoiber  v. Honeychuck (1980) 101 Cal.App.3d 903.) An interference by the landlord  amounts to a constructive eviction if the tenant so elects and surrenders possession,  and the tenant will not be liable for rentals following his eviction. Upon  surrendering possession of the premises, the tenant is relieved of the  obligation to pay rent and may sue for damages, or may plead damages by way of  offset in an action brought by the landlord to recover any unpaid rent that  accrued prior to surrender. (Andrews v.  Mobile Aire Estates (2005) 125 Cal.App.4th 578, 590.) Alternatively, a  tenant may elect to stand upon the lease, remain in possession and sue for  breach of contract damages as well as for injunctive relief. (Ibid.)  Minor inconveniences and  annoyances are not actionable. (Id.,  at pp. 589-590.)    Upon reviewing the FAC, Plaintiffs failed to sufficiently  allege a claim for breach of the covenant of quiet enjoyment. Here, Hwy 101’s  argument concerning the leasehold interest is well taken. Plaintiffs do not  allege eviction, rather, they allege diminished value of their leasehold  interest, illness, physical injury, mental stress, emotional distress,  discomfort, annoyance, anxiety, property damage, loss of use, and lost income.  (FAC ¶¶ 23-24.) The court is not persuaded that Plaintiffs sufficiently plead  the existence of a contract (the lease) with the minor Plaintiffs.    Accordingly, the court SUSTAINS the demurrer to the Third  Cause of Action with leave to amend.   Fourth Cause of  Action – Negligence   Hwy 101 contends that Plaintiffs failed to sufficiently  plead this cause of action because they rely on a statute for liability and did  not plead alleged statutory breaches with the requisite particularity.  Plaintiffs argue that they sufficiently plead this claim.   The elements of a negligence cause of action are duty, breach  of that duty, proximate cause, and damages. (Peredia v. HR Mobile Services, Inc. (2018) 25 Cal.App.5th 680,  687.) “ ‘ “[T]he threshold element of a cause of action for negligence is the  existence of a duty to use care toward an interest of another that enjoys legal  protection against unintentional invasion.” ‘ [Citations.] ‘ “Duty is a  question of law for the court.” ’ [Citation.] It is ‘ “to be determined on a  case-by-case basis.” ’ [Citations.] ‘ “A duty may arise through statute,  contract, or the relationship of the parties.” ’ [Citation.] Additionally, ‘  “California law establishes the general duty of each person to exercise, in his  or her activities, reasonable care for the safety of others. [Citation.]”  [Citation.] Civil Code section 1714, subdivision (a) provides in relevant part:  “Everyone is responsible, not only for the result of his or her willful acts,  but also for an injury occasioned to another by his or her want of ordinary  skill in the management of his or her property or person, except so far as the  latter has, willfully or by want of ordinary care, brought the injury upon  himself or herself.” ’[Citation.]” (Shipp  v. Western Engineering, Inc. (2020) 55 Cal.App.5th 476, 489-90.)¿    Upon reviewing the FAC, Plaintiffs have sufficiently alleged  a claim for negligence. First, Hwy 101 owed Plaintiffs a duty as the landlord  to maintain the Property. (FAC ¶ 26.) Second, Hwy 101 allegedly breached that  duty by failing to maintain the Property and correct substandard conditions.  (FAC ¶¶ 9, 27.) Third, these breaches caused damage to Plaintiffs, who  allegedly suffered and continue to suffer illness, physical injury, mental  stress, emotional distress, anxiety, annoyance and discomfort, property damage,  and lost income as well as diminished value of their leasehold interest. (FAC  ¶¶ 28-29.)    Accordingly, the court OVERRULES the demurrer to the  Fourth Cause of Action.   Fifth Cause of  Action – Violation of Civil Code Section 1942.4   Hwy 101 contends that Plaintiffs did not allege whether  their unit was subject to Los Angeles Department of Public Health violations  and applicable violations. Plaintiffs argue that the statute does not require  that the violations occurred in their unit, that it is disingenuous to claim  they do not know which violations they received while they owned the Property,  and their interpretation of Civil Code § 1942.4 is novel and incorrect.[4]  Plaintiffs propose that the statute applies to a tenant living in an apartment  building with a violation anywhere in the building and not just in that  tenant’s specific unit. (Opp. 11:2-7.) Hwy 101 does not address this argument  in reply. Rather, Hwy 101 replies that only one violation may have applied to  their unit during Hwy 101’s ownership period and Plaintiffs are in a better  position to state whether their unit was subject to the inspection violation.    “[A] residential landlord may not demand or collect rent,  increase rent, or serve a three-day notice to pay rent or quit if (1) the  dwelling is untenantable . . . or deemed and declared substandard; (2) a public  officer inspects the premises and gives the landlord written notice that it must  abate the nuisance or repair the property; (3) the conditions have not been  remedied within 35 days of the notice; and (4) the substandard conditions were  not caused by the tenant’s acts or omissions.” (Erlach v. Sierra Asset Servicing, LLC, supra, 226 Cal.App.4th at p.  1298; Civ. Code § 1242.4(a).)    Upon reviewing the FAC, Plaintiff has not sufficiently  alleged a claim for violation of Civil Code § 1942.4. None of the alleged  violations cited by Plaintiffs occurred during Hwy 101’s ownership of the  Property. (FAC ¶¶ 1, 32.) As such, Plaintiffs have not plead facts that Hwy 101  was given written notice by a public officer after inspection to abate the  nuisance or repair the property.   Accordingly, the court SUSTAINS the demurrer to the Fifth  Cause of Action with leave to amend.   Sixth Cause of  Action – Private Nuisance   Hwy 101 contends that this claim fails because it is  duplicative of Plaintiffs’ negligence claim. Additionally, Hwy 101 contends  that Plaintiffs failed to allege Hwy 101 engaged in an affirmative act to  create the alleged nuisance.[5]  Plaintiffs argue that they sufficiently plead this claim and did not address  Hwy 101’s duplicity contention at all.   A nuisance is defined as follows: “[a]nything which is  injurious to health,¿including, but not limited to, the illegal sale of  controlled substances,¿or is indecent or offensive to the senses, or an  obstruction to the free use of property, so as to interfere with the  comfortable enjoyment of life or property, or unlawfully obstructs the free  passage or use, in the customary manner, of any navigable lake, or river, bay,  stream, canal, or basin, or any public park,¿square, street, or highway, is a  nuisance.” (Civ. Code, § 3479.)¿¿  ¿  Private “[n]uisance liability arises from violation of a  duty to another that interferes with the free use and enjoyment of his or her  property.” (Chee v. Amanda Goldt Property  Management (2006) 143 Cal.App.4th 1360, 1373.) The elements of a private  nuisance are: (1) “the plaintiff must prove an interference with his use and  enjoyment of his property”; (2) “ ‘the invasion of the plaintiff’s interest in  the use and enjoyment of the land [must be] substantial,  i.e., that it cause[s] the plaintiff to suffer “substantial actual damage” ’ ”;  and (3) “ ‘ “[t]he interference with the protected interest must not only be  substantial, but it must also be unreasonable” [citation], i.e., it must be “of  such a nature, duration, or amount as to constitute unreasonable interference  with the use and enjoyment of the land.” ’ [Citation.]” (Mendez v. Rancho Valencia Resort Partners, LLC (2016) 3 Cal.App.5th  248, 262-63.) Tenants may sue their landlords for a nuisance. (Stoiber v. Honeychuck (1980) 101  Cal.App.3d 903, 919.)¿¿    Upon  reviewing the FAC, Plaintiffs have not sufficiently alleged a claim for  nuisance. Notably, Plaintiffs allegations are conclusory rather than factual.  For instance, Plaintiffs allege the condition were injurious to the health and  safety of Plaintiffs, indecent and offensive to Plaintiffs, and interfered  substantially with their comfortably enjoyment of the Property. (FAC ¶ 35.)  Plaintiff similarly alleges “general, special and property damage” but does not  allege facts showing substantial  actual damages.   Accordingly,  the court SUSTAINS the demurrer to the Sixth Cause of Action with leave to  amend.   Seventh Cause of  Action – Violation of Unfair Competition Law (Bus. & Prof. Code Sections  17200-09)   Hwy 101 contends that Plaintiffs failed to plead statutory  violations with requisite particularity and that, as alleged, the claim is  constrained to the landlord-tenant relationship rather than unfair or unlawful  business practices. Plaintiffs argue that they did identify the specific  statutory violations. Hwy 101 replies that Plaintiffs failed to plead any  misrepresentations, risk of public deception, lost money or property, and lack  of particularity.    Unfair competition is any unlawful, unfair, or fraudulent  business practices or act and unfair, deceptive, untrue, or misleading  advertising. (Bus. & Prof. Code § 17200.)¿ A plaintiff needs to identify  statutory, regulatory, or decisional law that the defendant has violated.¿ (Bernardo v. Planned Parenthood Federation of  America (2004) 115 Cal.App.4th 322, 352.)¿Unfair competition “borrows”  violations of other laws and authorizes a separate action pursuant to unfair  competition. (See Farmers Ins. Exch. v. Superior  Court (1992) 2 Cal.4th 377, 383.) Unfair conduct in unfair competition  actions must be violative of public policy and “tethered to specific  constitutional, statutory, or regulatory provisions.”¿ (Scripps Clinic v. Superior Court (2003) 108 Cal.App.4th 917, 940.)  As a statutory cause of action, allegations of unfair business practices must  state with reasonable particularity the facts supporting the statutory elements  of the violation. (Khoury v. Maly’s of  California, Inc. (1993) 14 Cal.App.4th 612, 619.) The statutory violations  must be specifically delineated and said violations must relate to a business  activity.¿ (Ibid.)¿   Upon reviewing the FAC, Plaintiffs have not sufficiently  alleged violation of Business and Profession Code Sec. 17200 et seq. Plaintiffs  allege that because Hwy 101 violated various habitability codes, they committed  unlawful business practices. (FAC ¶¶ 45-46.) The  court does not see factual allegations supporting this cause of action with  reasonable particularity.    Accordingly,  the court SUSTAINS the demurrer to the Seventh Cause of Action with leave to  amend.   CONCLUSION:               For  the foregoing reasons, the Court decides the pending motion as follows:    1.      Hwy 101’s Demurrer is OVERRULED as  to the Fourth Cause of Action and SUSTAINED as to the remaining  causes of action with 20 days leave to amend Moving party is to give notice.    IT IS SO ORDERED.    Dated:              August 14, 2024                      __________________________________                                                                                                                Upinder  S. Kalra                                                                                     Judge  of the Superior Court     