 Case Number:  24STCV04100    Hearing Date:   August 2, 2024    Dept:  32 


 
JUSTIN SMITH,
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
 
ALLA ZORIKOVA, et al., 
                        Defendants.
  


 
  Case No.:  24STCV04100
  Hearing Date:  August 2, 2024
 
     [TENTATIVE]
  order RE:
defendant joycelyn lew’s motion to quash
  service of summons 




 


 



BACKGROUND
            On February 20, 2024, Plaintiff
Justin Smith filed this action against Defendants Alla Zorikova, Olivia Jeong,
and Joycelyn Yew. The complaint asserts causes of action for (1) violation of
the Consumer Legal Remedies Act (CLRA), (2) violation of the Unfair Competition
Law (UCL), and (3) fraud. 
            Plaintiff alleges that Defendants
run an illegal dog breeding operation and operate out of Defendant Lew’s home
in Los Angeles. Plaintiff alleges that Defendants falsely advertise their dogs
as healthy, trained, and top quality. Plaintiff allegedly purchased a puppy
from Defendants that turned out to be sick, dirty, and not properly socialized.
Plaintiff allegedly contacted Defendant Zorikova for a refund, and Defendant
Zorkova allegedly refused, instead instructing Plaintiff to sell the dog to
another buyer himself. 
            On July 10, 2024, Defendant Lew
filed the instant motion to quash based on defective service of the summons and
complaint. Plaintiff filed his opposition on July 24, 2024. 
 
LEGAL STANDARD
“[T]he court in which an action is pending
has jurisdiction over a party from the time summons is served on him as
provided by Chapter 4 (commencing with Section 413.10).” (Code Civ. Proc, §
410.50(a).) “[A] court acquires jurisdiction over a party by proper service of
process or by that party's general appearance.” (In re Jennifer O.
(2010) 184 Cal.App.4th 539, 547.) Actual notice of a lawsuit is not a
substitute for proper service of process. (Abers v. Rohrs (2013) 217
Cal.App.4th 1199, 1206.) A defendant may serve and file a notice of motion to
quash service of summons on the ground that the court lacks jurisdiction. (Code
Civ. Proc., § 418.10(a).) 
DISCUSSION
            “A summons may be served by personal
delivery of a copy of the summons and of the complaint to the person to be
served.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 415.10.) Alternatively, a summons may be served by
leaving a copy of the summons and complaint at the person’s dwelling house,
usual place of abode, usual place of business, or usual mailing address, in the
presence of a competent member of the household or a person apparently in
charge, at least 18 years of age, who shall be informed of the contents
thereof, and by thereafter mailing a copy of the summons and complaint to the
same location. (Id., § 415.20.)
According to a proof of service filed June
13, 2024, a registered process server effectuated substitute service on
Defendant Lew at 3:22pm on February 29, 2024 by serving a John Doe standing
outside the front door. According to the proof of service, John Doe confirmed
that the defendants (other than Olivia Jeong) resided at the address but were
unavailable at the moment. John Doe then allegedly refused to accept the
summons and complaint, whereafter the server left the papers at the front door.

Kim Marra, a resident at the address,
avers that he encountered the process server on February 28, 2024 in the
backyard and refused to accept service on behalf of anyone. (Marra Decl. ¶ 3.)
Mr. Marra further avers that the door camera did not capture any encounter at
the front door at 3:22pm on February 29, 2024. (Id., ¶ 5.) Instead, the
camera captured a man leaving a package at the front door at 5:10pm on February
29, 2024 without anyone else present. (Id., ¶ 6, Ex. A.)  
Defendant Lew confirms that she resides at
the address identified in the proof of service. (Lew Decl. ¶ 4.) Defendant Lew
describes Mr. Marra as a 65-year-old tan Asian man with a receding hairline (id.,
¶ 7), which is different than the process server’s description of John Doe, a
60-year-old bald Caucasian or Hispanic man. Defendant Lew denies picking up the
package left at the front door or being informed by anyone that she had been
served. (Id., ¶ 10.) 
Under the circumstances, the Court finds
that Plaintiff properly served Defendant Lew by substitute service. The process
server arrived at the correct address, as confirmed by Defendant Lew. Mr.
Marra’s earlier encounter with the process server in the backyard does not
negate the server’s later encounter at the front door with John Doe. The fact
that the front door camera did not capture the encounter with John Doe is not
proof that the encounter did not happen. Defendant presents no competent
evidence rebutting the process server’s account. There is no evidence that the
unidentified man appearing at 5:10pm was the process server or that the package
he delivered consisted of the summons and complaint. The unspecified delivery
at 5:10pm does not negate the process server’s account of what occurred earlier
at 3:22pm.    
Furthermore, the fact that the summons and
complaint were dropped at the front door rather than directly handed to an
individual does not negate proper service. The service statutes are liberally
construed and only require substantial compliance. (Lebel v. Mai (2012)
210 Cal.App.4th 1154, 1165.) Here, the process server explained the nature of
the documents to John Doe, who confirmed that Defendant Lew resided at the
address. The server left the documents at the front door, which is a
sufficiently conspicuous place, only after John Doe refused to take them.
Therefore, the service substantially complied with statutory requirements. “[A]
‘defendant will not be permitted to defeat service by rendering physical
service impossible.’” (Bein v. Brechtel-Jochim Group, Inc. (1992) 6
Cal.App.4th 1387, 1393.)   
Ultimately, the Court finds that Defendant
Lew has not presented evidence sufficient to rebut the presumption of valid
service. (See Evid. Code, § 647.)   
CONCLUSION
            Defendant Lew’s motion to quash
service of summons is DENIED. 


 
JUSTIN SMITH,
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
 
ALLA ZORIKOVA, et al., 
                        Defendants.
  


 
  Case No.:  24STCV04100
  Hearing Date:  August 2, 2024
 
     [TENTATIVE]
  order RE:
defendant alla zorikova’s demurrer to
  complaint 




 


 


BACKGROUND            On February 20, 2024, Plaintiff
Justin Smith filed this action against Defendants Alla Zorikova, Olivia Jeong,
and Joycelyn Yew. The complaint asserts causes of action for (1) violation of
the Consumer Legal Remedies Act (CLRA), (2) violation of the Unfair Competition
Law (UCL), and (3) fraud.             Plaintiff alleges that Defendants
run an illegal dog breeding operation and operate out of Defendant Lew’s home
in Los Angeles. Plaintiff alleges that Defendants falsely advertise their dogs
as healthy, trained, and top quality. Plaintiff allegedly purchased a puppy
from Defendants that turned out to be sick, dirty, and not properly socialized.
Plaintiff allegedly contacted Defendant Zorikova for a refund, and Defendant
Zorkova allegedly refused, instead instructing Plaintiff to sell the dog to
another buyer himself.             On June 20, 2024, Defendant Zorikova
filed the instant demurrer to the complaint. Plaintiff filed his opposition on
July 9, 2024. Defendant filed her reply on July 9, 2024.    DISCUSSIONI.
CLRACLRA prohibits “unfair methods of
competition and unfair or deceptive acts or practices” in connection with “the
sale or lease of goods or services to any consumer.” (Civ. Code, § 1770(a).)
Such unlawful practices include, inter alia: (i) misrepresenting the
source, sponsorship, approval, or certification of goods or services; (ii) representing
that goods or services have sponsorship, approval, characteristics,
ingredients, uses, benefits, or quantities that they do not have; and (iii) advertising
goods or services with intent not to sell them as advertised. (Ibid.)Here, Plaintiff alleges that Defendants “misrepresented
the source and certification of puppies they are selling,” “misrepresented the
puppies . . . as having approval and characteristics they do not have,” and “advertised
puppies for sale . . . with the intent not to sell them as advertised.” (Compl.
¶¶ 27-29.) Specifically, Defendants allegedly deceive purchasers like Plaintiff
“into believing they will be receiving a top quality, healthy puppy or dog from
a high quality environment.” (Id., ¶ 3.) But in reality, the dog that
Plaintiff purchased was “not socialized,” had “an extreme bladder infection,”
was “filthy,” and exhibited signs of “being abused.” (Id., ¶ 17.) These
allegations facially state a violation of CLRA. (See Civ. Code, § 1770(a).) Defendant argues that “Plaintiff simply
names legal act while failing to state a cause of action that would be proper
under this statute.” (Dem. 9:10-12.) This is incorrect. As demonstrated above,
Plaintiff alleges ultimate facts showing a violation of CLRA. Defendant next argues that “Proposition 64
from November of 2004 imposed standing and class action requirement on causes
of action brought under California Unfair Competition Law. In this complaint,
only single Plaintiff Smith and there is no class action.” (Dem. 9:13-16.)
However, Prop 64 did not impose any class requirement for standing under the
UCL. A claim under the UCL may be brought by “a person who has suffered
injury in fact and has lost money or property as a result of the unfair
competition.” (Bus. & Prof. Code, § 17204.) This clearly means that a
single individual injured by an unlawful action may bring a claim under the
UCL.  In any event, the standing requirements
under the UCL have no bearing on the CLRA claim. Standing under CLRA is defined
in the following manner: “Any consumer who suffers any damage as a result of
the use or employment by any person of a method, act, or practice declared to
be unlawful by Section 1770 may bring an action against that person.” (Civ.
Code, § 1780(a).) No part of this requires class standing. Plaintiff has
sufficiently alleged that he suffered damage caused by Defendants’ acts because
he was deceived into purchasing a puppy that he believed was of a different
quality than it actually was. Therefore, Plaintiff may pursue the CLRA claim as
an individual.            Lastly, Defendant argues that “There Are
No Facts in the Complaint Alleged Specifically Against Defendant, especially in
reference that Plaintiff made with Defendant any contractual agreement.” (Dem.
9:17-18.) Defendant contends that “Plaintiff fails to allege in her Complaint
that Defendant entered into contractual agreement with Plaintiff and moreover,
breached it.” (Dem. 9:22-24.) However, the complaint makes clear that all of
the Defendants are jointly responsible for the alleged deception. The reference
to “Defendants” clearly includes Defendant Zorikova. The complaint does not
fail to assert a claim against Zorikova merely because it groups Zorikova with
the other Defendants. Furthermore, the complaint does attribute conduct
specifically to Zorikova. (See Compl. ¶¶ 14-23.) Defendant cites no authority
for her proposition that pleading a CLRA claim requires pleading a contract. As
stated above, Plaintiff has alleged facts demonstrating a violation of CLRA.
Because Plaintiff does not assert a breach of contract claim, it is immaterial
whether Plaintiff has pled the existence of a contract. Therefore, the demurrer to the first cause
of action is OVERRULED.   II.
UCLBusiness and Professions Code section
17200 prohibits unlawful, unfair, or fraudulent business acts or practices.
Each of the three prongs is an independent basis for relief. (Smith v. State
Farm Mutual Automobile Insurance Co. (2001) 93 Cal.App.4th 700, 718.) Unlawful conduct is defined as any
practice forbidden by law. (Farmers Ins. Exchange v. Superior Court
(1992) 2 Cal.4th 377, 383.) UCL actions alleging unlawful conduct “borrow” from
other statutes or common law causes of action outside Section 17200. (Klein
v. Chevron U.S.A., Inc. (2012) 202 Cal.App.4th 1342, 1383.) Because
Plaintiff has alleged a violation of CLRA, that violation constitutes
“unlawful” conduct which serves as a predicate for a UCL violation. Therefore,
Plaintiff has adequately pled a UCL violation. Defendant argues that “Plaintiff fails to
allege how, why and where Defendant violated Business Practices under § 17200.”
(Dem. 10:8-10.) However, Defendant cites no authority requiring an allegation
of “how, why and where” in order to plead a UCL claim. As discussed above,
Plaintiff has adequately pled a CLRA violation, which serves as a predicate for
the UCL claim. Defendant then argues that she is not
associated with “Von Schutz German Shepherds,” where Plaintiff allegedly bought
the puppy. (See Compl. ¶ 13.) This is a factual issue that cannot be resolved
on a demurrer. As discussed above, Plaintiff has alleged facts demonstrating
Defendants’ deceptive acts in violation of CLRA and the UCL. These allegations
must be assumed true on a demurrer, and Defendant cannot disprove them with
extrinsic facts. Therefore, the demurrer to the second
cause of action is OVERRULED. III.
Fraud“The elements of fraud that will give rise
to a tort action for deceit are: ‘(a) misrepresentation (false representation,
concealment, or nondisclosure); (b) knowledge of falsity (or ‘scienter’); (c)
intent to defraud, i.e., to induce reliance; (d) justifiable reliance; and (e)
resulting damage.’” (Engalla v. Permanente Medical Group, Inc. (1997) 15
Cal.4th 951, 974, quoting Lazar v.
Superior Court (1996) 12
Cal.4th 631, 638.) Fraud must be pleaded with specificity rather than with
general and conclusory allegations. (Small v. Fritz Companies, Inc. (2003)
30 Cal.4th 167, 184.) The specificity requirement means a plaintiff must allege
facts showing how, when, where, to whom, and by what means the representations
were made. (Lazar, supra, 12 Cal.4th at p. 645.) Defendant argues
that “Plaintiff refers to all the Defendants and those fails to state how
specifically Defendant would be engaged into any ‘deceptive conduct.’” (Dem.
11:24-26.) The Court agrees that the complaint fails to plead fraud with
specificity. While the complaint sufficiently alleges deceptive conduct for
purposes of CLRA and UCL, the allegations do not meet the heightened standard
for pleading fraud. The complaint broadly alleges that “Defendants have made
false representations and concealed material facts” (Compl. ¶ 40) without
attributing any fraudulent statement or omission to Defendant Zorikova. Nor
does the complaint allege the requisite details showing how, when, where, to
whom, and by what means the representations were made. (See Lazar, supra, 12
Cal.4th at p. 645.) Therefore, the
demurrer to the third cause of action is SUSTAINED with leave to amend. CONCLUSION            Defendant
Alla Zorikova’s demurrer is SUSTAINED with leave to amend as to the third cause
of action and OVERRULED in all other respects.   
