 Case Number:  24STCV09591    Hearing Date:   August 2, 2024    Dept:  32 


 
PABLO FLORES,
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
 
EMERALD TEXTILES, LLC,
  et al., 
                        Defendants.
  


 
  Case No.:  24STCV09591
  Hearing Date:  August 2, 2024
 
     [TENTATIVE]
  order RE:
defendant emerald socal, llc’s motion to
  compel arbitration 




 


 



BACKGROUND
            On April 16, 2024, Plaintiff Pablo
Flores filed this employment discrimination action against Defendants Emerald
Textiles, LLC and Emerald SoCal, LLC. 
            On June 11, 2024, Defendant Emerald
SoCal, LLC filed the instant motion to compel arbitration. Plaintiff filed his
opposition on July 25, 2024. Defendant filed its reply on July 26, 2024.
LEGAL STANDARD
“On petition of a party to an arbitration
agreement alleging the existence of a written agreement to arbitrate a
controversy and that a party to the agreement refuses to arbitrate that
controversy, the court shall order the petitioner and the respondent to
arbitrate the controversy if it determines that an agreement to arbitrate the
controversy exists….” (Code Civ. Proc, § 1281.2.) “The party seeking
arbitration bears the burden of proving the existence of an arbitration
agreement, and the party opposing arbitration bears the burden of proving any
defense, such as unconscionability.” (Pinnacle Museum Tower Assn. v.
Pinnacle Market Development (US), LLC (2012) 55 Cal.4th 223, 236.)
DISCUSSION
I.
Proof of Agreement
            “The moving party ‘can meet its
initial burden by attaching to the motion or petition a copy of the arbitration
agreement purporting to bear the opposing party's signature.’” (Gamboa v.
Northeast Community Clinic (2021) 72 Cal.App.5th 158, 165.) 
            On November 30, 2021, Plaintiff
signed a “Mutual Agreement to Arbitrate Claims” covering “all claims or
disputes” brought by either party relating to Plaintiff’s “application for
employment, employment, or separation of employment.” (Beach Decl., Ex. E.) Plaintiff
does not dispute this evidence. Thus, Defendant has satisfied its burden of
proving the existence of an arbitration agreement covering the claims at issue.

            The burden shifts to Plaintiff to
establish a defense against enforcement. (Pinnacle, supra, 55 Cal.4th at
p. 236.) Plaintiff argues that the agreement is unconscionable. 
II.
Unconscionability 
Unconscionability has both a procedural
and a substantive element. (Aron v. U-Haul Co. of California (2006) 143
Cal.App.4th 796, 808.) Both elements must be present for a court to invalidate
a contract or clause. (Ibid.) However, the two elements need not be
present in the same degree; courts use a sliding scale approach in assessing
the two elements. (Carbajal v. CWPSC, Inc. (2016) 245 Cal.App.4th 227,
242.)
a. Procedural Unconscionability
Procedural unconscionability “focuses on
two factors: ‘oppression’ and ‘surprise.’ ‘Oppression’ arises from an
inequality of bargaining power which results in no real negotiation and ‘an
absence of meaningful choice.’ ‘Surprise’ involves the extent to which the
supposedly agreed-upon terms of the bargain are hidden in the prolix printed
form drafted by the party seeking to enforce the disputed terms.” (Zullo v.
Superior Court (2011) 197 Cal.App.4th 477, 484, internal citations
omitted.) 
            1.
Contract of Adhesion
Plaintiff argues that the agreement is
procedurally unconscionable because it is a contract of adhesion. Plaintiff
avers that “I was told to just sign if I wanted to work.” (Flores Decl. ¶ 4.)
Plaintiff does not speak English and did not understand the agreement, which
was written in English. (Ibid.) No one otherwise explained the agreement
to Plaintiff. (Ibid.) 
The law is clear that none of these facts
negate the enforceability of an arbitration agreement. First, the contract
plainly states that it is not mandatory nor a condition of employment. (Beach
Decl., Ex. E, § 8.) Even if the agreement were mandatory, the adhesive nature
of a contract represents only a minimal degree of procedural unconscionability.
(Serpa v. California Surety Investigations, Inc. (2013) 215 Cal.App.4th
695, 704.) Furthermore, “one who signs an instrument which on its
face is a contract is deemed to assent to all its terms.” (Marin Storage
& Trucking, Inc. v. Benco Contracting & Engineering, Inc. (2001) 89
Cal.App.4th 1042, 1049.) “No law requires that parties dealing at arm's length
have a duty to explain to each other the terms of a written contract.” (Brookwood
v. Bank of America (1996) 45 Cal.App.4th 1667, 1674.) “Generally, a party
may not avoid enforcement of an arbitration provision because the party has
limited proficiency in the English language.” (Caballero v. Premier Care
Simi Valley LLC (2021) 69 Cal.App.5th 512, 518.) 
Despite not reading the contract or not
understanding it, Plaintiff still signed it. Thus, Plaintiff is deemed to
assent to the terms of the contract. The contract states that “[t]here is a
version of this agreement in Spanish, available upon request.” (Beach Decl.,
Ex. E.) There is no indication that Plaintiff expressed trouble reading the
English version or requested a different version. The agreement also states
that “[y]ou are free to seek assistance from independent advisors.” (Ibid.)
There is no indication that Plaintiff attempted to seek assistance. There is no
indication that Defendant refused to explain the agreement to Plaintiff or
prevented Plaintiff from seeking independent advice. Plaintiff’s claim that he
did not have a “reasonable opportunity” to review the agreement is conclusory
and presents no actual facts demonstrating that Defendant prevented Plaintiff
from reviewing the agreement. (See Flores Decl. ¶ 4.)
            2.
Failure to Attach Rules
Plaintiff argues that the agreement fails
to attach the arbitration rules. However, “the failure to attach the
[arbitration] rules, standing alone, is insufficient grounds to support a
finding of procedural unconscionability.” (Peng v. First Republic Bank
(2013) 219 Cal.App.4th 1462, 1472.) The arbitration agreement clearly states
that the arbitration will proceed under JAMS Employment Rules and provides an
internet link to access the rules. (Beach Decl., Ex. E.) Alternatively, the
agreement informs Plaintiff that a copy is available from HR upon request. (Ibid.)
Plaintiff’s claim that he was not given an opportunity to review the rules is
unsupported by evidence and contradicted by the plain terms of the agreement. 
b. Substantive Unconscionability
Substantive unconscionability focuses on
the actual terms of the agreement and evaluates whether they create overly
harsh or one-sided results as to shock the conscience. (Suh v. Superior
Court (2010) 181 Cal.App.4th 1504, 1515.)  
            1.
Attorney’s Fees
Plaintiff argues that the agreement
improperly waives his statutory right under FEHA to recover attorney’s fees
(Gov. Code, § 12965(b)) because it requires each party to bear their own
attorney’s fees and costs. However, the agreement states that “[e]ach party
will pay the fees for his/her/its own attorneys, subject to any remedies to
which that party may later be entitled under applicable law.” (Beach Decl.,
Ex. E, § 7.) The agreement expressly allows Plaintiff to recover attorney’s
fees under applicable law, which includes FEHA. Therefore, the agreement does
not waive Plaintiff’s right to recover attorney’s fees under FEHA. 
            2.
Costs of Arbitration
Plaintiff argues that the agreement
improperly requires him to bear the costs of arbitration because Defendant only
agreed to pay for “referee fees.” This is plainly contradicted by the terms of
the agreement, which provide that “Company will pay the Arbitrator's fees and
any fee for administering the arbitration.” (Beach Decl., Ex. E, § 7.) 
            3.
Discovery  
Plaintiff argues that “the arbitration
agreement fails to provide for any discovery.” (Opp. 9:9-10.) Again, this is
plainly contradicted by the terms of the agreement. The agreement states that
“[t]he parties have the right to conduct discovery and present witnesses and
evidence as needed to present their cases and defenses” and that “[e]ach party
shall have the right to subpoena witnesses and documents, including documents
relevant to the case from third parties.” (Beach Decl., Ex. E, § 6.) The
agreement provides for a certain number of depositions, interrogatories, and
requests for production, but also states that “additional discovery may be
conducted by agreement or as ordered by the Arbitrator.” (Ibid.) 
Plaintiff cites no authority for the
proposition that an arbitration agreement is unconscionable simply because it
provides for less discovery than would otherwise be available in court. “[A]rbitration
is meant to be a streamlined procedure. Limitations on discovery . . . is one
of the ways streamlining is achieved.” (Dotson v. Amgen, Inc. (2010) 181
Cal.App.4th 975, 983.) Therefore, an arbitration agreement is only required to
“provide[] for more than minimal discovery.” (Armendariz v. Foundation
Health Psychcare Services, Inc. (2000) 24 Cal.4th 83, 102.) The agreement
here meets this standard. Having agreed to arbitration, Plaintiff cannot
complain that he is unable to litigate the case as if he were in court.
            4.
Waiver of Jury Trial
Plaintiff argues that he did not make a
knowing and voluntary waiver of the right to a jury trial because the agreement
did not inform Plaintiff that he had a constitutional right to a jury. However,
the agreement clearly states on its first page, in bold and all caps, that “ALL
DISPUTES COVERED BY THIS AGREEMENT SHALL BE DECIDED BY AN ARBITRATOR THROUGH
FINAL AND BINDING ARBITRATION AND NOT BY A COURT, JURY TRIAL, OR ANY OTHER
ADJUDICATORY PROCEEDING.” (Beach Decl., Ex. E.)
By signing the agreement, Plaintiff
knowingly and voluntarily waived his right to a jury trial. (See Lawrence v.
Walzer & Gabrielson (1989) 207 Cal.App.3d 1501, 1507 [“An arbitration
agreement constitutes a waiver of the right to a jury trial”].) Plaintiff cites
no authority for the proposition that the agreement must specifically inform
him that the right to a jury is a constitutional right. 
In sum, the Court finds no procedural or
substantive unconscionability. Therefore, the arbitration agreement remains
enforceable. 
CONCLUSION
            Defendant’s motion to compel
arbitration is GRANTED. The Court hereby stays the case in its entirety. 