 Case Number:  23STCV14347    Hearing Date:   August 2, 2024    Dept:  32 


 
PHILLIP C. MILLS,
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
 
CORPORATION FOR BETTER HOUSING, et al., 
                        Defendants.
  


 
  Case No.:  23STCV14347
  Hearing Date:  August 2, 2024
 
     [TENTATIVE]
  order RE:
defendants’ motion to bifurcate 




 


 



BACKGROUND
            On June 21, 2023, Plaintiff Phillip
C. Mills filed this action for housing discrimination against Defendants
Corporation for Better Housing; 1264 W. Rosamond Blvd., LP; Winnresidential
California, LP; and Darlene Tolman. 
            On July 9, 2024, Defendants
Winnresidential California, LP and Darlene Tolman filed the instant motion to
bifurcate trial into liability and damages phases. The remaining Defendants
filed a joinder to the motion on July 10, 2024. 
LEGAL STANDARD
 “The
court may, when the convenience of witnesses, the ends of justice, or the
economy and efficiency of handling the litigation would be promoted thereby, on
motion of a party, after notice and hearing, make an order . . . that the trial
of any issue or any part thereof shall precede the trial of any other issue or
any part thereof in the case . . . .” (Code Civ. Proc., § 598.) “The court, in
furtherance of convenience or to avoid prejudice, or when separate trials will
be conducive to expedition and economy, may order a separate trial of any cause
of action, including a cause of action asserted in a cross-complaint, or of any
separate issue or of any number of causes of action or issues . . . .” (Id.,
§ 1048, subd. (b).) “It is within the discretion of the court to bifurcate
issues or order separate trials of actions . . . and to determine the order in
which those issues are to be decided.” (Royal Surplus Lines Ins. Co. v.
Ranger Ins. Co. (2002) 100 Cal.App.4th 193, 205.)
DISCUSSION
            Defendants argue that bifurcation is
warranted because the damages issue would be moot if Defendants are found not
liable. However, this is true in every case involving damages. This alone does
not justify creating two separate trials. There is no indication that judicial
economy would be served by bifurcation in this particular case. To the
contrary, because the witnesses and evidence for both liability and damages
will be the same, bifurcation would lead to duplication and waste. 
CONCLUSION
            Defendants’ motion to bifurcate is
DENIED.
 