  Case Number:  19STCV45568    Hearing Date:   January 19, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


January
  19, 2024




CASE NUMBER:


19STCV45568




MOTIONS:  


Motion
  for Summary Judgment




MOVING PARTY:


Defendant ARDI VIII International, LLC dba
  Charley’s Grilled Subs




OPPOSING PARTY:


Plaintiff
  Sacha Agopian, by and through his GAL Christine Agopian 



 
MOVING PAPERS
 
1.      Notice of Motion and Motion for Summary Judgment;
Memorandum of Points and Authorities; Declaration of James F.B. Sawyer 
2.      Separate Statement of Undisputed Material
Facts
 
OPPOSITION PAPERS
1.      Plaintiff’s Opposition to Motion for Summary
Judgment
2.      Plaintiff’s Response to Defendant’s Separate Statement
3.      Declaration of Tony Forberg and Evidence in
Opposition  
 
REPLY PAPERS 
1.      Defendant’s Reply to Opposition
2.      Defendant’s Objections to Plaintiff’s
Evidence
 
BACKGROUND
 
On December 17, 2019, Plaintiff
Sacha Agopian, by and through his GAL Christine Agopian (“Plaintiff”) filed a
complaint against Westfield Corp, and Does 1 to 50 for negligence and premises
liability alleging that on October 20, 2018, a fire alarm was negligently
activated at a shopping mall which caused people to run away. “[D]uring the
course of escape from the false alarm, Plaintiff a minor, was thrown to the
floor causing significant physical injury.” (Complaint, 4.) 
 
On March 30, 2020, Plaintiff filed the operative first amended
complaint (“FAC”) ostensibly alleging the same causes of action, but without
providing any attachments or written allegations. On May 18, 2021, Defendant
Sherman Oaks Fashion Associates, LP filed a cross complaint against Moving
Defendant ARDI VIII International, LLC dba Charley’s Grilled Subs (“ARDI”)
alleging that the false alarm originated from a business operated by ARDI. 
 
On May 10, 2022, Plaintiff filed a Doe Amendment alleging ARDI as Doe
1. 
 
ARDI now moves for summary judgment arguing that Plaintiff cannot
prove that it owed a duty or that the alleged breach caused Plaintiff’s
injuries. Plaintiff opposes and ARDI replies. 
 
LEGAL
STANDARD
 
“[T]he party moving for summary judgment bears the burden of persuasion
that there is no triable issue of material fact and that he is entitled to judgment
as a matter of law[.] There is a triable issue of material fact if, and only
if, the evidence would allow a reasonable trier of fact to find the underlying
fact in favor of the party opposing the motion in accordance with the
applicable standard of proof.” (Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co.
(2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 850.)  “[T]he party moving for summary judgment
bears an initial burden of production to make a prima facie showing of the
nonexistence of any triable issue of material fact; if he carries his burden of
production, he causes a shift, and the opposing party is then subjected to a burden of production of his own to make a prima facie
showing of the existence of a triable issue of material fact.” (Ibid.;
Smith v. Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. (2005) 135 Cal.App.4th 1463, 1474
[summary judgment standards held by Aguilar apply to summary
adjudication motions].)  Further, in line
with Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co., “[o]n a motion for summary
adjudication, the trial court has no discretion to exercise.  If a triable issue of material fact exists as
to the challenged causes of action, the motion must be denied. If there is no
triable issue of fact, the motion must be granted.” (Fisherman's Wharf Bay
Cruise Corp. v. Superior Court (2003) 114 Cal.App.4th 309, 320.)
 
“On a summary judgment motion, the
court must therefore consider what inferences favoring the opposing party a
factfinder could reasonably draw from the evidence. While viewing the evidence
in this manner, the court must bear in mind that its primary function is to
identify issues rather than to determine issues.  Only when the inferences are indisputable may
the court decide the issues as a matter of law. If the evidence is in conflict,
the factual issues must be resolved by trial.” (Binder v. Aetna Life Ins. Co.
(1999) 75 Cal.App.4th 832, 839 [cleaned up].) 
Further, “the trial court may not weigh the evidence in the manner of a
factfinder to determine whose version is more likely true.  Nor may the trial court grant summary
judgment based on the court's evaluation of credibility.” (Id. at p. 840
[cleaned up]; see also Weiss v. People ex rel. Department of Transportation
(2020) 9 Cal.5th 840, 864 [“Courts deciding motions for summary judgment or
summary adjudication may not weigh the evidence but must instead view it in the
light most favorable to the opposing party and draw all reasonable inferences
in favor of that party”].)            
 
            
EVIDENTIARY
OBJECTIONS
 
The Court declines to rule on ARDI’s evidentiary objections on the
basis that they have no effect on the ruling herein. 
 
DISCUSSION
 
Negligence and Premises Liability
The
elements of a cause of action for negligence are: (1) a duty on the part of
defendant toward plaintiff; (2) defendant’s breach of that duty; and (3) harm
to the plaintiff caused by that breach. (Kesner v. Superior Court (2016) 1 Cal.5th 1132, 1142.) The
elements of a cause of action for premises liability are the same as those for
negligence: duty, breach, causation, and damages. (McIntyre v. The Colonies-Pacific,
LLC (2014) 228
Cal.App.4th 664, 671.) 
Therefore,
to prevail on a claim for premises liability, Plaintiff must prove: (1)
defendant owned or controlled the subject property; (2) defendant was negligent
in the use or maintenance of the property; (3) plaintiff was harmed; and (4)
defendant’s negligence was a substantial factor in causing plaintiff’s harm.
(See Rowland v.
Christian (1968)
69 Cal.2d 108.) Liability in a premises liability action is based not on
responsibility for the conduct of others, but on the failure of the landowner
or occupier to act reasonably under the circumstances when he or she has reason
to anticipate the probability of injury and has an opportunity to prevent the
injury or warn of the peril. (Cody
F. v. Falleti (2001)
92 Cal.App.4th 1232, 1242.) 
To
determine the existence and scope of duty, courts consider the foreseeability
of harm to the plaintiff, the closeness of the connection between the
defendant’s conduct and the injury suffered, the moral blame attached to the
defendant’s conduct, the policy of preventing future harm, and the extent of
the burden to the defendant of imposing a duty to exercise care with resulting
liability for breach.  (Rowland v.
Christian (1968) 69 Cal.2d 108, 113.) 
“[I]n
analyzing duty, the court's task “is not to decide whether a particular
plaintiff's injury was reasonably foreseeable in light of a particular
defendant's conduct, but rather to evaluate more generally whether the category
of negligent conduct at issue is sufficiently likely to result in the kind of
harm experienced that liability may appropriately be imposed on the negligent
party.” [Citation.] Viewed in this light, the question of foreseeability in a
“duty” context is a limited one for the court, and readily contrasted with the
fact-specific foreseeability questions bearing on negligence (breach of duty)
and proximate causation posed to the jury or trier of fact. [Citation.]”  (Laabs v. Southern California Edison Co. (2009)
175 Cal.App.4th 1260, 1273 [cleaned up].) Stated differently, “a court's
task—in determining ‘duty’—is not to decide whether a particular
plaintiff's injury was reasonably foreseeable in light of a particular
defendant's conduct, but rather to evaluate more generally whether the category
of negligent conduct at issue is sufficiently likely to result in the kind of
harm experienced that liability may appropriately be imposed on the negligent
party.” (Brooks v. Eugene Burger Management Corp. (1989) 215 Cal.App.3d 1611, 1620
[quoting Ballard v. Uribe (1986) 41 Cal.3d 564, 573, fn. 6].)
“‘Breach of duty is usually a fact issue for the jury; if the
circumstances permit a reasonable doubt whether the defendant’s conduct
violates the standard of due care, the doubt must be resolved by the jury as an
issue of fact rather than of law by the court. [Citation.]’ [Citations.]” (Constance
B. v. State of California (1986) 178 Cal.App.3d 200, 207 (“Constance”).)
“Similarly, ‘… the decision whether that breach caused the damage (that
is, causation in fact) is again within the jury’s domain; but where reasonable
men will not dispute the absence of causality, the court may take the decision
from the jury and treat the question as one of law. [Citations.]’ [Citations.]”
(Constance, supra, 178 Cal.App.3d at p. 207 [italics in
original].) 
As an initial matter, ARDI argues that it is not
properly in the case as a Doe defendant because the FAC did not check the box
for Doe defendants on page 1. The Court notes that this argument is essentially
a motion for judgment on the pleadings, which was not sufficiently described in
ARDI’s notice of motion. Nonetheless, the FAC does allege Doe defendants on
page 2. Defendant does not address the allegations in paragraph 6. Accordingly,
the Court denies the motion for judgment on the pleadings.
ARDI’s motion for summary judgment argues that
Plaintiff cannot produce evidence showing it was foreseeable that the purported
alarm would cause Plaintiff’s injury or that the alarm in fact caused the
injury. Most of the facts in ARDI’s Separate Statement deal with the procedural
history of the case and purported defects in the pleading. 
ARDI offers the following additional facts, which
are undisputed: 
-         
Plaintiff was allegedly injured on October 20, 2018
when he fell from a piece of playground equipment at the Westfield Fashion
Mall, Los Angeles, California. Plaintiff claims that, shortly before his fall,
a smoke alarm at ARDI’s food court restaurant was triggered. Plaintiff asserts
that the triggering of the smoke alarm somehow caused the accident at issue,
and that ARDI should accordingly be held responsible for Plaintiff’s damages.
(UMF 1.)
-         
On May 18, 2021, SOFA filed a Cross-Complaint against
ARDI alleging that the alarm of which Plaintiff complained was a false alarm
emanating from a smoke detector contained within the premises leased and
operated by ARDI. (UMF 10.)
-         
Plaintiff’s uncle, Raffi Agopian was the only witness
to Plaintiff’s fall. (UMF 14.) 
-         
During the time leading up to the fall, Plaintiff was
playing on a piece of playground equipment that his uncle described as “a slide
or something.”  Plaintiff was still using
this piece of equipment when the alarm went off. (UMF 15.) 
-         
Raffi Agopian did not see Plaintiff start to fall.  He only saw Plaintiff land.  There was another, larger, child standing
next to Plaintiff on the play equipment when he fell. (UMF 16.) 
-         
Raffi Agopian believes that Plaintiff fell due to the
smoke alarm because Plaintiff had not fallen on that specific play equipment
during earlier visits. (UMF 17.) 
Here, ARDI has not met its initial burden to
demonstrate an absence of a triable issue of fact. In analyzing duty for
purposes of summary judgment, the Court evaluates whether the category of
allegedly negligent conduct at issue, i.e., the triggering of a false smoke
alarm[1]
near an indoor playground, is sufficiently likely to result in the kind of harm
experienced, i.e., a commotion that leads to a fall. In considering the Rowland
factors, the Court cannot find as a matter of law that ARDI owed no duty of
care. ARDI cites to no case authority supporting its position.
Additionally, ARDI fails to meet its burden to show
that there are no triable issues of fact regarding causation. ARDI’s only
evidence in support of this motion is the deposition of Raffi Agopian,
Plaintiff’s uncle, who purportedly witnessed the incident. Mr. Agopian testified that when the alarm sounded,
“everybody was moving erratically, like bumping into each other.” (Sawyer
Decl., Exh. A. Agopian Depo. 17:23–18:1.) When asked if he saw anyone bump into
the equipment, Mr. Agopian stated:
“No. I
thought either the 2 possibilities were either he fell or, like, he fell – I
mean he’s either – I’ve seen him on the piece of equipment many times, and I
don’t remember you know – he’s always done okay there. I’m assuming it was
either the panicking, the loud noise that disrupted him, or maybe they bumped
into each other, or I don’t know. I’m assuming. I’m not an expert. So I
wouldn’t know.” (Agopian Depo. 18:15–23.) 
He
further testified that “[i]t was a commotion. I don’t know if [adults] were
actually running, but people were – everybody’s movement seemed to be like,
happening faster than usual.” (Id. 19:4-9.)
Here, based on the deposition testimony alone, ARDI
does not set forth evidence showing the absence of a triable issue of fact. The
Court cannot find as a matter of law that the evidence shows that the false
alarm did not cause Plaintiff’s fall, considering all reasonable inferences in
favor of the opposing party.[2]
CONCLUSION AND
ORDER
 
Based on the foregoing, Defendant ARDI VIII International,
LLC’s Motion for Summary Judgment is DENIED.
 
            Defendant
shall give notice of this ruling and file a proof of service of such.
 
 


