 Case Number:  21STCV10618    Hearing Date:   January 19, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


January
  19, 2024




CASE NUMBER:


21STCV10618




MOTIONS:  


Motion
  for Leave to File Amended Cross-Complaint




MOVING PARTY:


Defendant/Cross-Complainant SP Plus
  Corporation




OPPOSING PARTY:


Defendant/Cross-Defendant
  Destination Shuttle Services, LLC



 
 
BACKGROUND
 
On March 17, 2021, Plaintiff Angel Dizon (“Plaintiff”) filed a
complaint against Defendants Destination Shuttle Services, LLC, 105 Airport
Parking, Inc., SP Plus Corporation, South Bay Airport Shuttle, Inc. and Does 1
to 50 for injuries related to a motor vehicle accident. 
 
On March 28, 2022, Defendant SP Plus Corporation (“SP”) filed a cross
complaint against Destination Shuttle Services (“DSS”) for comparative
indemnity, contribution, and declaratory relief. 
 
On March 23, 2023, SP filed a motion for leave to amend the cross
complaint. The motion was continued to June 27, 2023 so SP’s counsel could
submit a supplemental declaration. (See Min. Order, 6/13/23.) The motion was
unopposed. On June 27, 2023, SP’s counsel did not appear and the Court took the
motion off calendar. 
 
On November 14, 2023, SP filed the instant motion seeking leave to
amend the cross complaint, on the same basis as the initial motion. DSS
opposes. 
 
LEGAL
STANDARD 
 
“A party who fails to plead a cause of action subject to the
requirements of this article, whether through oversight, inadvertence, mistake,
neglect, or other cause, may apply to the court for leave to amend his
pleading, or to file a cross-complaint, to assert such cause at any time during the course of the action. The
court, after notice to the adverse party, shall grant, upon such terms
as may be just to the parties, leave to amend the pleading, or to file the
cross-complaint, to assert such cause if the party who failed to plead the
cause acted in good faith.¿ This subdivision shall be liberally construed to
avoid forfeiture of causes of action.”¿ (Code Civ. Proc., § 426.50.)
(Emphasis added.)¿ 
¿ 
The Court of Appeals has explained: “The legislative mandate
is clear. A policy of liberal construction of section 426.50 to avoid
forfeiture of causes of action is imposed on the trial¿court. A motion to file
a cross-complaint at any time during the course
of the action must be granted unless bad faith of
the moving party is demonstrated where forfeiture would otherwise result.
Factors such as oversight, inadvertence, neglect, mistake or other cause, are
insufficient grounds to deny the motion unless accompanied by bad faith.”
(Silver Organizations Ltd. v. Frank¿(1990) 217 Cal.App.3d 94, 98–99.) “‘‘Bad faith,’ is
defined as ‘[t]he opposite of ‘good faith,’ generally implying or involving
actual or constructive fraud, or a design to mislead or deceive another, or a
neglect or refusal to fulfill some duty or some contractual obligation, not
prompted by an honest mistake . . ., but by some interested or sinister
motive[,] . . . not simply bad judgment or negligence, but rather . . . the
conscious doing of a wrong because of dishonest purpose or moral obliquity; . .
. it contemplates a state of mind affirmatively operating with furtive design
or ill will. (Id. at 100.)¿ 
 
California Code of Civil Procedure section 473, subdivision (a)(1)
provides, in relevant part: “[t]he court may, in furtherance of justice, and on
any terms as may be proper, allow a party to amend any pleading or proceeding
by adding or striking out the name of any party, or by correcting a mistake in
the name of a party, or a mistake in any other respect; and may, upon like
terms, enlarge the time for answer or demurrer.¿ The court may likewise, in its
discretion, after notice to the adverse party, allow, upon any terms as may be
just, an amendment to any pleading or proceeding in other particulars; and may
upon like terms allow an answer to be made after the time limited by this
code.”¿ 
 
“This discretion should be exercised liberally in favor of amendments,
for judicial policy favors resolution of all disputed matters in the same
lawsuit.”¿(Kittredge Sports Co. v. Superior Court¿(1989) 213 Cal.App.3d
1045, 1047.)¿Ordinarily, the court will not consider the validity of the
proposed amended pleading in ruling on a motion for leave since grounds for a
demurrer or motion to strike are premature.¿The court, however, does have
discretion to deny leave to amend where a proposed amendment fails to state a
valid cause of action as a matter of law and the defect cannot be cured by
further amendment. (See¿California Casualty General Ins. Co. v.
Superior Court¿(1985) 173 Cal.App.3d 274, 281¿[overruled on other grounds
by¿Kransco¿v. American Empire Surplus Lines Ins. Co.¿(2000) 23 Cal.4th
390].)¿ 
 
DISCUSSION
 
Counsel for SP declares that the Court issued a tentative ruling on
June 26, 2023 that granted its motion. (Jemmott Decl. ¶ 3.) However, counsel
did not appear because he was unfamiliar with the local rule that unopposed
motions required an appearance at the hearing. (Id. ¶ 4.) SP seeks to add a fourth
cause of action, “Tort of Another”, to the cross complaint that will allow SP
to recover attorney fees against DSS for having to defend Plaintiff’s action.
(Id. ¶ 7.) SP argues that on March 6, 2023, Plaintiff testified in deposition
that he was a passenger in a stopped SP vehicle when a DSS vehicle crashed into
it. (Id. ¶ 2, 7.) 
 
In opposition DSS argues the Tort of Another cause of action has no
merit because it is only applicable in certain limited circumstances. (Opp.,
3.) DSS argues Plaintiff’s action merely alleges general negligence due to a
motor vehicle accident and is not an exceptional circumstance. 
 
In reply, SP argues DSS has waived the right to oppose after failing
to oppose the initial motion. Additionally, it argues the tort of another
doctrine applies in this scenario. 
 
As an initial matter, the first motion was taken off calendar.
Accordingly, DSS’s failure to oppose that motion has no bearing on this
separate motion. SP does not provide any authority for its position that the
Court must disregard the opposition now. Accordingly, the Court will consider
DSS’s arguments.
 
Tort
of Another Doctrine
 
Generally, “[i]n the absence of some special agreement, statutory
provision, or exceptional circumstances, attorney's fees are to be paid by the
party employing the attorney.” (Prentice v. North Am. Title
Guaranty Corp., Alameda Division (1963) 59
Cal.2d 618, 620.) However, the tort of another doctrine provides an exception:
“[a] person who through the tort of another has been required to act in the
protection of his interests by bringing or defending an action against a third
person is entitled to recover compensation for the reasonably necessary loss of
time, attorney's fees, and other expenditures thereby suffered or incurred.”
(Id.) 
 
The doctrine, however, is
limited. “[T]he Prentice exception was not meant to apply in every case
in which one party's wrongdoing causes another to be involved in litigation
with a third party. If applied so broadly, the judicial exception would
eventually swallow the legislative rule that each party must pay for its own
attorney. [Citations.] To avoid this result, Prentice limits its
authorization of fee shifting to cases involving ‘exceptional circumstances.’”
(Davis v. Air Technical Industries, Inc. (1978) 22 Cal.3d 1, 6.) Applying
this reasoning, the court in Davis declined to extend the doctrine to a
standard products liability case where a manufacturer and retailer were sued
for a defective product. (Id.) 
 
In Watson v. Department of Transportation (1998) 68 Cal.App.4th 885, 894, the
plaintiff sued Caltrans and the driver of another car (Watson) for personal
injury after an automobile collision. The jury found the plaintiff and Caltrans
at fault and Watson not at fault. Watson recovered a judgment on a
cross-complaint against Caltrans awarding him the attorney’s fees incurred in
the defense. (Id. at 887.) The Court of Appeal reversed. The court
concluded that “[t]he extension of the Prentice rule to the commonplace
case of an exonerated alleged tortfeasor would go a long way toward abrogation
of the American rule that each party to a lawsuit must ordinarily pay his or
her own attorney's fees. It would substantially expand the notion of duty under
the law of tort to compensation of the litigation expenses incurred by all
persons, however connected to any tortious event, whom the injured plaintiff
elects to sue who succeed in establishing lack of liability.” (Watson v. Department of Transportation (1998) 68 Cal.App.4th 885, 894.) 
 
Similarly, here, SP argues that it is not at fault and should be
awarded its attorney’s fees for having to defend itself. Even assuming the
truth of SP’s claims, there is no authority for extending the tort of another
doctrine to this motor vehicle negligence action. Accordingly, the proposed
amendment would be futile.
 
CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
 
Cross-Complainant SP Plus Corporation’s motion for leave to file an amended
cross-complaint is DENIED.
 
Cross-Complainant SP Plus Corporation shall provide notice of the
Court’s order and shall file a proof of service of such.