 Case Number:  21STCV31918    Hearing Date:   January 19, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


January
  19, 2024




CASE NUMBER:


21STCV31918




MOTIONS:  


Motion
  to Compel Compliance with Deposition Subpoena




MOVING PARTY:


Defendants Randy George Cudworth, Del Amo
  Construction, Inc., and Enterprise FM Trust LSR 




OPPOSING PARTY:


None
  



 
BACKGROUND
 
On January 31, 2022, Defendants
Randy George Cudworth, Del Amo Construction, Inc., and Enterprise FM Trust LSR
(“Defendants”) served a deposition subpoena for production of business records,
on non-party Advanced Multispecialty Surgery Center (“Advanced”), seeking
treatment records for Plaintiff Ramon Mayoral (“Plaintiff”).  
 
On September 5, 2023, Defendants moved
to compel compliance with the subpoena under Code of Civil Procedure section
1987.1. Defendants also seek sanctions. No opposition has been filed.
 
LEGAL
STANDARD
 
A party seeking discovery from a person who is not a party
to the action may obtain discovery by oral deposition, written deposition, or
deposition subpoena for production of business records.¿ (Code Civ. Proc., §
2020.010.)¿ A deposition subpoena may command either: (1) only the attendance
and testimony of the deponent, (2) only the production of business records for
copying, or (3) the attendance and testimony of the deponent, as well as the
production of business records, other documents, electronically stored
information, and tangible things.¿ (Code Civ. Proc., § 2020.020.)¿  
 
A service of a deposition subpoena shall be affected a
sufficient time in advance of the deposition to provide the deponent a
reasonable opportunity to locate and produce any designated documents and,
where personal attendance is commanded, a reasonable time to travel to the
place of deposition.¿ (Code Civ. Proc., § 2020.220, subd. (a).)¿ Personal
service of any deposition subpoena is effective to require a deponent who is a
resident of California to: personally appear and testify, if the subpoena so specifies;
to produce any specified documents; and to appear at a court session if the
subpoena so specifies.¿ (Code Civ. Proc., § 2020.220, subd. (c).)¿ A deponent
who disobeys a deposition subpoena may be punished for contempt without the
necessity of a prior order of the court directing compliance by the witness.¿
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2020.240.)¿A motion to compel compliance with a deposition
subpoena must be made within 60 days after completion of the deposition record,
the date objections are served, or the date specified for production, and be
accompanied by a meet and confer declaration. (Code Civ. Proc., §2025.480,
subd., (b); Board of Registered Nursing v. Sup.Ct. (Johnson &
Johnson) (2021) 59 CA5th 1011, 1032-1033.) 
 
California Code of Civil Procedure section 1987.1,
subdivision (a) states, “[i]f a subpoena requires the attendance of a witness
or the production of books, documents, or other things before a court, or at
the trial of an issue therein, or at the taking of a deposition, the court,
upon motion reasonably made by any person described in subdivision (b), or upon
the court’s own motion after giving counsel notice and an opportunity to be
heard, may make an order quashing the subpoena entirely, modifying it, or directing
compliance with it upon those terms or conditions as the court shall declare,
including protective orders. In addition, the court may make any other order as
may be appropriate to protect the person from unreasonable or oppressive
demands, including unreasonable violations of the right of privacy of the
person.” 
  
California Code of Civil Procedure section 1987.2,
subdivision (a) states, in relevant part, “. . . in making an order pursuant to
motion made . . . under Section 1987.1, the court may in its discretion award
the amount of the reasonable expenses incurred in making or opposing the
motion, including reasonable attorney’s fees, if the court finds the motion was
made or opposed in bad faith or without substantial justification . . . .” 
 
MEET
AND CONFER
 
            Defendants’ counsel merely states
that “Defendants met and conferred” following the production date. (Fodrini
Decl. ¶ 3.) However, this is insufficient to show that a good faith meet and
confer took place. 
 
DISCUSSION
 
On January 31, 2022, Defendants
served the deposition subpoena on Advanced. (Fodrini Decl. ¶ 2, Exh. A, B.) The
date of production was March 1, 2022. Sixty days after the date for production
was April 30, 2022. Therefore, since Defendants filed the instant motion on
September 5, 2023, the motion is untimely. 
 
Defendants argue the motion is
timely because Advanced never objected to the subpoena, and therefore the
record was never completed. However, Advance’s non-compliance was clear on
March 1, 2022, when the records were not produced. “A nonparty must comply (or
not) with the subpoena on the date specified for production. If a party is not
satisfied with the nonparty's compliance, the party has 60 days in which to
meet and confer with the nonparty. These meet and confer efforts do not affect
the mandatory 60-day deadline. The meet and confer process is part of the
60-day period in which to file a motion; it does not extend it. If the party is
still unsatisfied with the nonparty's compliance with any portion of the
subpoena at the end of this period (because, for example, the nonparty still
has not produced the requested documents), the party may file a motion to
compel.” (Board of Registered Nursing v. Superior Court
of Orange County (2021)
59 Cal.App.5th 1011, 1034–35.) Therefore, the 60-day deadline started on March
1, 2022. (See id. at 1033 [“On [the date specified for production], the
subpoenaing party has all of the information it needs to meet and confer
regarding the nonparty's compliance and, if unsatisfied, prepare a motion to
compel.”.) 
 
As a result, the motion to compel, and request for monetary
sanctions is denied. 
 
CONCLUSION AND
ORDER
 
Therefore, the Court DENIES the motion to compel compliance with the
deposition subpoena.  
 
            Defendants shall give notice of the
Court’s order and file a proof of service of such.