  Case Number:  20STCV40168    Hearing Date:   January 12, 2024    Dept:  68 Forouzan Golshani vs. Board of Trustees of the California
State University, 20STCV40168
Motion for Leave to File Fourth Amended Complaint
Moving Party: Plaintiff Forouzan Golshani

Responding Party: Defendant
Board of Trustees of the California State University

Background
            At the
hearing on Defendant Board of Trustees of the California State University’s
(Defendant) motion for summary judgment, Plaintiff Forouzan Golshani (Plaintiff)
made an oral motion for leave to amend his complaint, which the Court denied.
Just before that hearing, Plaintiff filed the current motion for leave to amend
his complaint on the basis that he wished to supplement the information in his
complaint as to his alleged protected disclosures. Plaintiff did not file this
motion until after he had viewed the Court’s tentative decision granting
Defendant’s motion for summary judgment. (Motion at p. ii.) 
On December 15, 2023, the Court
heard the parties’ arguments and adopted its tentative decision, granting
Defendant’s motion for summary judgment. Defendant argues in its opposition to
Plaintiff’s motion for leave to amend that Plaintiff’s motion is now moot and
is also untimely. Plaintiff argues in his reply that the motion was timely because
it was made before and at the hearing on the motion for summary judgment.
Analysis
            A court is
authorized, in its discretion, to “allow, upon any terms as may be just, an
amendment to any pleading or proceeding in other particulars . . .” (CCP §
473(a)(1).) Code of Civil Procedure § 576, likewise, provides that “any judge,
at any time before or after commencement of trial, in the furtherance of
justice, and upon such terms as may be proper, may allow the amendment to any
pleading . . .” (CCP § 576.) The determination of whether to grant leave to
file an amended pleading rests in the court’s sound discretion. 
Leave to amend is to be liberally
granted at any stage in the proceedings, up to and including trial. (Magpali
v. Farmers Group, Inc. (1986) 48 Cal.App.4th 471, 487; see also County
of Sanitation Dist. No. 2 of Los Angeles County v. Kern County (2005) 127
Cal.App.4th 1544, 1618 (noting that a plaintiff may be granted amendment even
at the time of trial).) To overcome the policy of liberally granting amendments
at any stage of litigation, a defendant must show both actual prejudice and
inexcusable delay. (Magpali, 48 Cal.App.4th at 487.) Prejudice exists
where an amendment to a complaint would result in a delay of trial; loss of
critical evidence; added costs of preparation; and increased burden of
discovery. (Id. at 486-488.)
Further, “‘even if a good amendment
is proposed in proper form, unwarranted delay in presenting it may – of itself
– be a valid reason for denial.’ (Citations omitted.)” (Record v. Reason
(1999) 73 Cal.App.4th 472, 487 [Plaintiff’s motion for leave to amend was
denied because Plaintiff knew of the facts that he wished to raise in opposition
to summary judgment for years before requesting leave to amend].)
            In this
case, Plaintiff knew of the facts that he wished to add to his complaint for at
least several months prior to the hearing on motion for summary judgment. It
was only after seeing the Court’s tentative ruling that Plaintiff filed his
motion for leave to amend. This would constitute an unreasonable delay.
Furthermore, the proposed allegations that Plaintiff wishes to add to his
complaint would not change the Court’s analysis of Defendant’s summary judgment
motion. Allowing Plaintiff to amend his complaint at this juncture would
prejudice Defendant because it would cause unreasonable delay by requiring
Defendant to file another motion for summary judgment.
            Based on
the foregoing, the Court denies Plaintiff’s motion for leave to amend.
Order
            Plaintiff’s
motion for leave to amend is DENIED.