 Case Number:  23VECV05477    Hearing Date:   November 27, 2024    Dept:  T 23VECV05477 TATIA CALHOUN
vs YOSI SHAYA
[TENTATIVE] ORDER:  Plaintiff Tatia Calhoun’s Ex Parte "Opposition
on Notice of Ruling on the Demurrer and Motion to Strike" is DENIED.
Introduction 
Plaintiff Tatia Calhoun
(Plaintiff) filed an “Ex Parte Opposition on Notice of Ruling on Demurrer and
Motion to Strike” (Ex Parte Opposition) on October 3, 2024.  Although not expressly stated, the Ex Parte
Opposition appears to request an opportunity to be heard on the Demurrer/Motion
to Strike.  The Ex Parte Opposition was
heard on October 7, 2024, wherein the Court considered the Ex Parte Opposition
as a Motion for Reconsideration of the ruling on the Demurrer/Motion to Strike
and set it for noticed hearing.  The
Court heard and ruled upon Defendant Yosi Shaya’s (Defendant) Demurrer and
Motion to Strike on September 12, 2024.  
Discussion 
In that the instant Ex Parte
Opposition is considered under the reconsideration statute, the motion was
required to be “made” 10 days from service of notice of entry of the
order.  (Code Civ. Proc., sec. 1008(a).)  Notice of the Ruling was served by Defendant
via mail on September 16, 2024.  The
deadline to file the instant motion was October 1, 2024, which includes the
five days for mailing.  The Court noted
that Plaintiff filed an “Opposition on Notice of Ruling on Demurrer Motion to
Strike New Court Date” (Opposition) on October 1, 2024.  The brief did not attach a Proof of
Service.  Without a Proof of Service, the
presumption is that the Opposition was not served upon Defendant.  Without service of the Opposition, it is
insufficiently shown that a reconsideration motion was timely made.  The instant Ex Parte Opposition was then
filed on October 3, 2024, again, without attaching a Proof of Service.  However, Defendant appeared at the October 7,
2024 Ex Parte Hearing.  The Ex Parte
Opposition being filed on October 3, 2024 is untimely under the reconsideration
statute.  Because there is insufficient
showing that the Opposition and the Ex Parte Opposition were timely “made”,
there is good cause to deny the Opposition and the Ex Parte Opposition based
upon timeliness. 
Because there is a colorable
argument that the Opposition could be timely “made,” the Court proceeded to
review the merits of Plaintiff’s arguments. 

Plaintiff asserted that she never
received the Demurrer and Motion to Strike and was hospitalized from August 29,
2024 thru September 2, 2024.  Plaintiff
further asserted that she informed Defendant that she was having surgery on
August 29, 2024 as grounds to request more time.  The Court record shows that the Demurrer and
Motion to Strike were served on July 24, 2024 at the address Plaintiff
identified on the Complaint and the Opposition and the Ex Parte
Opposition.  Plaintiff’s contention that
she did not receive the Demurrer and Motion to Strike is not credible because
Plaintiff admitted to requesting additional time due to her surgery and because
the subsequent Notice of the Ruling was served upon Plaintiff at the same
address, which Plaintiff evidently received in order to file the Opposition and
Ex Parte Opposition.  Because the Court
does not find Plaintiff’s contention of non-receipt of the demurrer and motion
to strike to be credible or persuasive, Plaintiff failed to present any new or
different facts, law, or circumstances. 
For this defect on the merits of Plaintiff’s arguments, there is good
cause to deny the motion for reconsideration.
The Court is empathetic to
Plaintiff’s hospitalization between August 29, 2024 and September 2, 2024.  However, the hospitalization does not provide
sufficient reasons for Plaintiff’s failure to respond to the Demurrer/Motion to
Strike between July 24, 2024 and August 29, 2024 or between September 3, 2024
and September 12, 2024.  In fact,
Plaintiff asserted that she was in discussion with a new attorney, Dennis
Block.  But Plaintiff did not submit any
additional facts to show why Mr. Block was not retained or could not have
contacted the Court on her behalf or even why Plaintiff could not have directly
contacted the Court prior to the September 12, 2024 hearing.  Plaintiff’s hospitalization is insufficient
to grant the relief requested.
The Opposition to this ex parte
also reveals that not only were the papers served on plaintiff by mail, they
were also served on her by email.  Also,
the declaration of Mr. Shaya details communications with the post office about
her receipt of mail.
Plaintiff’s Ex Parte Opposition,
considered as a reconsideration motion, is not persuasive and DENIED.  
Plaintiff should advise the court
and counsel by filing a change of address form if she is no longer receiving
mail at the address on her papers.
IT IS SO ORDERED, CLERK TO GIVE NOTICE.