 Case Number:  23VECV04708    Hearing Date:   November 27, 2024    Dept:  T 23VECV04708 WARNER GATEWAY
COMPANY, A C... vs SHAW, JACOBSMEYER, CRAIN
[TENTATIVE] ORDER:  Plaintiff Warner Gateway Company’s Motion for
Assignment Order is GRANTED.  
Introduction 
Plaintiff/Judgment Creditor
Warner Gateway Company (Plaintiff) moved for an assignment order against
Defendants/Judgment Debtors Kevin Shaw (Shaw) and Richard Jacobsmeyer
(Jacobsmeyer) (collectively, Defendants). 
Plaintiff seeks to have assigned Defendants’ payments or  wages from the federal government, rents
commissions, royalties, payments due from a patent or copyright, insurance
policy loan value, advances, loans, referral fees, fees for services,
management fees, wages, contingency fees, distributions, reimbursement,
payments in general, payments, accounts receivable, receivables from existing
cases and clients, cases in which either Debtor has a lien, payments from
insurers which retained either Debtor, general intangibles (as defined by
Commercial Code Section 9102(a)(a2)), judgments, instruments (as defined by
Code of Civil Procedure Section 708.510(a) and the comment to Section 708.510)
directly or indirectly (collectively, the "Funds") from all entities
and individuals, including, but not limited to, "shawlaw.org",
Shawlaw Associates and Michael Sullivan & Associates.  Judgment was entered on June 20, 2024 in
favor of Plaintiff in the total amount of $117,619.30.
Opposition was due November 14,
2024 and none was filed.
Discussion 
The Court has the authority to
assign to a judgment creditor all or part of a right to payment due or to
become due.  (Code Civ. Proc., sec.
708.510.)  The Court further has authority
to restrain debtors from assigning or otherwise disposing of or encumbering the
right to payment sought to be assigned. 
(Code Civ. Proc., sec. 708.520.) The judgment is shown to be still
enforceable and thus a need for the restraining order is shown.  The motion is persuasive.
The motion for assignment order
is GRANTED.  
IT IS SO ORDERED, CLERK TO GIVE NOTICE.