 Case Number:  24AHCV00148    Hearing Date:   October 4, 2024    Dept:  3 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - NORTHEAST
DISTRICT
 



ANTONIO GUACHIAC CARAC, 
                    Plaintiff(s),
          vs.
 
CONSOLIDATED
   DISPOSAL SERVICE, LLC, et al.,
 
                    Defendant(s).


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


      CASE NO.: 24AHCV00148
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: DEFENDANT KENNY WAN’S DEMURRER TO PLAINTIFF’S COMPLAINT
 
Dept.
  3
8:30
  a.m.
October
   4, 2024



 
I.      INTRODUCTION
         On January
23, 2024, plaintiff Antonio Guachiac Carac (“Plaintiff”) filed this action
against defendant Kenny Wan (“Defendant”), Consolidated Disposal Service, LLC
dba Republic Waste Servies of Southern California, LLC (“Republic”), Doe
Driver, Tang Lang Shue (“Trustee”) as trustee for the Tang Lang Shue Family
Trust (“Trust”), Tse Realty and Management Servies (“Tse Management”), and
Timothy Tse (“Tse”). 
          Plaintiff
alleges that on January 11, 2023, he was injured during the course and scope of
his employment with Trustee, Tse Management, Tse, and Defendant. (Compl. ¶.
17.) Plaintiff alleges he was hit by a vehicle owned by Republic and operated
by Doe Driver, a Republic employee working in the course and scope of his
employment. (Compl., ¶¶ 17-18.) Due to the collision, Plaintiff’s right foot was
wounded when it became entangled inside the drain cleaning equipment that he
was using. (Compl., ¶ 18.) The wound subsequently became infected and on
January 15, 2023, Plaintiff’s right foot was amputated. (Compl., ¶ 18.) 
          Plaintiff
asserts two causes of action for: (1) vehicular negligence (against Republic
and Doe Driver), and (2) violation of Labor Code section 3706 (against
Defendant, Trustee, Tse Management, and Tse) for failing to carry workers’
compensation insurance. 
          On
June 11, 2024, Defendant filed this demurrer to the sole cause of action
asserted against him for violation of Labor Code section 3706. 
          On
September 20, 2024, Plaintiff filed an opposition brief. 
          No
reply brief is on file with the Court. 
II.     LEGAL
STANDARDS
A demurrer may be brought if
insufficient facts are stated to support the cause of action asserted. (Code
Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subd. (e).) “We treat the demurrer as admitting all
material facts properly pleaded but not contentions, deductions or conclusions
of fact or law. We accept the factual allegations of the complaint as true and
also consider matters which may be judicially noticed. [Citation.]” (Mitchell v. California Department of Public
Health (2016) 1 Cal.App.5th 1000, 1007; Del
E. Webb Corp. v. Structural Materials Co. (1981) 123 Cal.App.3d 593, 604
[“the facts alleged in the pleading are deemed to be true, however improbable
they may be”].) 
A demurrer may also be brought on the
grounds that it is uncertain. (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subd. (f).) “A
demurrer for uncertainty is strictly construed, even where a complaint is in
some respects uncertain, because ambiguities can be clarified under modern
discovery procedures.” (Khoury v. Maly’s
of California, Inc. (1993) 14 Cal.App.4th 612, 616.) Where the complaint
contains substantial factual allegations sufficiently apprising defendant of
the issues it is being asked to meet, a demurrer for uncertainty will be
overruled or plaintiff will be given leave to amend. (Williams v. Beechnut Nutrition Corp. (1986) 185 Cal.App.3d 135,
139, fn. 2.) 
III.    DISCUSSION
          As an initial
matter, the Court addresses Plaintiff’s claim that Defendant’s demurrer is
untimely. A proof of service of the summons and complaint shows that Defendant
was served on April 13, 2024. Plaintiff argues that Defendant’s demurrer had to
be filed by May 13, 2024, since a defendant may demur within the same period of
time it has to answer the complaint—i.e., 30 days after service, unless
extended by stipulation or court order. (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.40, subd. (a).)
This demurrer was filed on June 11, 2024, along with a declaration by defense
counsel, Frank Hwu. Defense counsel does not argue that Defendant is entitled
to an automatic 30-day extension of the deadline to file a demurrer because he
does not state that he made a good faith attempt to meet and confer at least 5
days before the demurrer was due, nor could he, since he was retained on May
17, 2024, four days after the deadline to file a responsive pleading. (Hwu
Decl., ¶ 4.) Therefore, it does not appear that the demurrer is timely.
Nevertheless, an untimely demurrer may be considered by the court in its
discretion. (Jackson v. Doe (2011) 192 CA4th 742, 750). Here, the Court
exercises its discretion to consider the demurrer and proceeds to analyze it on
its merits.        
Defendant demurs to Plaintiff’s second
cause of action on the grounds that it fails to state sufficient facts.
Defendant argues that Plaintiff cannot maintain this lawsuit due to the worker’s
compensation exclusivity doctrine since Plaintiff alleged that he was injured “on
the job.” (Demurrer, p. 4.) Defendant also argues that Plaintiff’s allegations that
Defendant was an “employer” within the meaning of the Labor Code are deficient
because there are no allegations describing the “scope and nature of the work Plaintiff
was hired to do,” “when [Plaintiff] was hired,” or whether Defendant even
compensated Plaintiff. (Demurrer, p. 4.) Defendant contends that although
Plaintiff alleges that he did not carry worker’s compensation insurance, Plaintiff’s
second cause of action would be defeated if Plaintiff was a licensed contractor
or self-insured. (Demurrer, p. 4.) 
          Defendant’s
demurrer on this ground is OVERRULED. Plaintiff’s allegations are sufficient
because he details the circumstances of his employment and injury and pleads the
ultimate facts necessary to state a cause of action under Labor Code section
3600. (See Doe v. City of Los Angeles (2007) 42 Cal.4th 531, 550). Critically,
Plaintiff alleges that he was employed by Defendant, Trustee, Tse, and Tse
Management and that none of them carried worker’s compensation. (Compl., ¶¶ 27,
29.) Plaintiff alleges he was employed to clean out a drain using mechanized
equipment when he was hit by a vehicle which resulted in his injuries. (Compl.,
¶ 28.) Plaintiff further alleges that Defendant, along with Trustee, Tse, and
Tse Management, were negligent in their supervision of him and negligently
instructed him. (Compl., ¶ 31.) Plaintiff also alleges that he was not provided
an adequate and safe work environment because he was working in the “zone of
danger of vehicles” and was not given “a safe drain cleaning equipment/machine.”
(Compl., ¶ 31.) 
          As for
Defendant’s demurrer on the grounds of uncertainty, it is also OVERRULED. The
Complaint is not vague and ambiguous and further, any uncertainty or
ambiguities can be clarified through discovery. (See Khoury, supra,
14 Cal.App.4th at p. 616.) 
IV.    CONCLUSION
Defendant’s demurrer is OVERRULED in
its entirety. Defendant is to file an answer within 20 days of the date of this
Order. 
Moving party to give notice.
 
Dated
this 4th
day of October
2024
 




 


 




 


William A. Crowfoot 
Judge of the Superior Court
 




 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at ALHDEPT3@lacourt.org indicating
intention to submit on the tentative as directed by the instructions provided
on the court website at www.lacourt.org. Please be advised that if you submit
on the tentative and elect not to appear at the hearing, the opposing party may
nevertheless appear at the hearing and argue the matter. Unless you receive a
submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume that others
might appear at the hearing to argue. If the Court does not receive emails from
the parties indicating submission on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may, at its discretion, adopt the
tentative as the final order or place the motion off calendar.
 