 Case Number:  23AHCV00974    Hearing Date:   October 4, 2024    Dept:  3 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - NORTHEAST
DISTRICT
 



EUGENE LEE, 
                    Plaintiff(s),
          vs.
 
KIA
   AMERICA, INC., et al., 
 
                    Defendant(s).


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


      CASE NO.: 23AHCV00974
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: DEFENDANT KIA AMERICA, INC.’S MOTION FOR SUMMARY
  JUDGMENT
 
 
Dept.
  3
8:30
  a.m.
October
   4, 2024



 
I.           
INTRODUCTION 
On May 1,
2023, plaintiff Eugene Lee (“Plaintiff”) filed this action against defendant
Kia America, Inc. (“Defendant”) asserting causes of action or negligence,
strict products liability, and breach of express and implied warranty. The
action arises from a motor vehicle collision that took place on or about
October 7, 2022. (Compl., ¶ 7.) Plaintiff alleges he suffered injuries to his
head, back, and lower extremities when his vehicle rear-ended another vehicle
that abruptly stopped on the freeway due to debris. (Compl., ¶ 7.) Plaintiff
alleges these injuries were preventable and that the injuries resulted from his
body striking the interior of the vehicle after the airbag failed to deploy.
(Compl., ¶¶ 7-8.) 
On April 5,
2024, Defendant filed this motion for summary judgment. Defendant argues that
the product at issue, a 2016 Kia Optima, did not have a defect that caused
Plaintiff’s alleged injuries. (Motion, p. 2.) 
Plaintiff
filed an opposition brief on August 1, 2024. 
Defendant
filed a reply brief on August 9, 2024. 
On August 16,
2024, the Court continued the hearing to September 20, 2024, so that Defendant
could file the supporting declaration that was inadvertently omitted from its
filings. Because the declaration had been served on Plaintiff, no additional
briefing was permitted. 
On September
19, 2024, the Court granted Plaintiff’s ex parte application for leave to file
a declaration from his expert, Felix Lee, whose opinions had previously been submitted
in letter format and not as an affidavit or sworn declaration. The Court
permitted Defendant to make any evidentiary objections by September 26, 2024,
and Defendant filed objections on September 25, 2024. 
II.         
LEGAL STANDARD
A defendant moving for summary judgment
“has met his or her burden of showing that a cause of action has no merit if
the party has shown that one or more elements of the cause of action . . .
cannot be established, or that there is a complete defense to the cause of
action.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (p)(2).) To meet this burden of
showing a cause of action cannot be established, a defendant must show not only
“that the plaintiff does not possess needed evidence” but also that “the
plaintiff cannot reasonably obtain needed evidence.” (Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001)
25 Cal.4th 826, 854.) A moving defendant need not conclusively negate an
element of plaintiff’s cause of action, but it is insufficient for the
defendant to merely point out the absence of evidence. (Id. at p. 854;
Gaggero v. Yura (2003) 108 Cal.App.4th 884, 891.) The supporting evidence
can be in the form of affidavits, declarations, admissions, depositions,
answers to interrogatories, and matters of which judicial notice may be taken.
(Aguilar, supra, 25 Cal.4th at
p. 855.) “Once the defendant . . . has met that burden, the burden shifts to
the plaintiff . . . to show that a triable issue of one or more material facts
exists as to the cause of action or a defense thereto.” (Code Civ. Proc., §
437c, subd. (p)(2).) The plaintiff may not merely rely on allegations or
denials of its pleadings to show that a triable issue of material fact exists,
but instead, “shall set forth the specific facts showing that a triable issue
of material fact exists as to the cause of action.” (Ibid.) “If the plaintiff cannot do so, summary judgment should be
granted.” (Avivi v. Centro Medico Urgente
Medical Center (2008) 159 Cal.App.4th 463, 467.)
III.       
EVIDENTIARY OBJECTIONS
Defendant’s
Objection Nos. 1 and 4 are SUSTAINED. The website page with information about a
recall for 2016 Kia Optima vehicles and their frontal air bags is hearsay. 
Defendant’s
Objection Nos. 2 and 5 are SUSTAINED. The report from Felix Lee is not
presented as a sworn affidavit or declaration. 
Defendant’s
Objection Nos. 3 and 6 are SUSTAINED. The email between counsel is irrelevant
and constitutes privilege settlement communications. 
Defendant’s
Objection Nos. 7 through 15 to Plaintiff’s response to Defendant’s separate
statement and Plaintiff’s memorandum of points and authorities are not
objections to evidence but an objection to argument.  Therefore, the Court does not rule on them. 
Defendant’s
Objection No. 16 to the Declaration of Felix Lee is OVERRULED. 
Defendant’s Objection
No. 17 to the Declaration of Felix Lee is SUSTAINED. 
IV.       
DISCUSSION 
The facts regarding the
underlying motor vehicle collision are undisputed. On October 7, 2022 Plaintiff
was driving his 2016 Kia Optima east on the Glendale Freeway in the #4 lane 700
feet west of the San Fernando Road exit. (Def.’s Undisputed Material Fact
(“UMF”) No. 1.) Dzhuleta Tolmoyan was driving a Land Rover in front of Plaintiff
and, prior to the collision, the Land Rover was at a complete stop because
traffic was at a standstill. (UMF No. 2.) Prior to the collision, Plaintiff was
driving between 40 to 50 miles per hour when he attempted to slow for the
traffic ahead. (UMF No. 3.) Plaintiff applied the brakes, but was unable to
stop his vehicle in time to avoid crashing into the rear of the Land Rover.
(UMF No. 4.)
Defendant premises its motion on
two arguments: (1) that no defect exists and (2) even if a defect existed, it
did not cause Plaintiff’s injuries. 
First, Defendant argues that all
of Plaintiff’s causes of action fail because Plaintiff cannot prove that the
airbags in the 2016 Kia Optima were defective. (Motion, p. 6.) There are two
tests to determine whether a design defect exists: the consumer expectation
test and the risk-benefit test. These two tests provide alternative means for a
plaintiff to prove a design defect and do not serve as defenses to one another.
(McCabe v. American Honda Motor Co. (2002) 100 Cal.App.4th 1111, 1121.) Therefore,
a defendant must show that a design defect does not exist using both tests in
order to prevail on summary judgment. 
The “consumer expectation test”
permits a plaintiff to prove design defect by demonstrating that “the product
failed to perform as safely as an ordinary consumer would expect when used in
an intended or reasonably foreseeable manner.” (See McCabe v. American Honda
Motor Co. (2002) 100 Cal.App.4th 1111, 1120 [citing Barker v. Lull
Engineering Co. (1978) 20 Cal.3d 413, 426-427].) On the other hand, under
the risk-benefit test, a product that meets ordinary consumer expectations “nevertheless
may be defective if the design embodies an ‘excessive preventable danger.’” (Id.,
p. 1120-121.) Therefore, to prove a defect under the risk-benefit test, the
plaintiff need only demonstrate that the design proximately caused the
injuries. “Once proximate cause is demonstrated, the burden shifts to the
defendant to establish that the benefits of the challenged design, when
balanced against such factors as the feasibility and cost of alternative
designs, outweigh its inherent risk of harm.” (Id., p. 1121.) 
Here, Defendant argues that the failure
to deploy the frontal airbags was not evidence of a defect and submits the
expert opinion of Sarah Sharpe, Ph.D (“Dr. Sharpe”). Dr. Sharpe has a doctoral
degree in bioengineering and a Bachelor of Science degree in mechanical
engineering. (Sharpe Decl., ¶ 1.) Dr. Sharpe has conducted resarch and authored
peer-reviewd publications on occupant kinematics and kinetics in planar impacts,
and on the effects of frontal airbag deployment in lower-moderate and
higher-moderate speed frontal impacts with belted occupants. (Sharpe Decl., ¶
10.) Dr, Sharpe states that airbag deployment is not appropriate in all frontal
or near frontal crashes because deployment of an airbag in lower speed
collisions can impart energy to an occupant that might not otherwise have been
present and increase the risk of injury. (Sharpe Decl., ¶¶ 16-17.) Dr. Sharpe
refers to field accident data which reflects that “for belted occupants in low
speed frontal collisions, airbag deployment does not substantially affect
injury outcome for the head, spine, and thorax.” (Sharpe Decl., ¶ 19.) 
Dr. Sharpe states that here,
Plaintiff was involved in a crash with a maximum longitudinal crash delta-V
recorded at 12 kph (7.5 mph) and maximum lateral crash delta-V recorded at 1
kph (0.6 mp). (Sharpe Decl., ¶ 14.) Dr. Sharpe states that airbag deployment at
this crash severity with a 7.5 to 8 mph delta-V is not required to provide
occupant protection. (Sharpe Decl. ¶ 20.) She also states that the risks of
deployment in a crash with lower crash severity would  outweigh the benefits and such risks include:
“(1) unwanted or inadvertent deployments from pot holes, speed bumps, curbs and
road debris, (2) possible injuries from unnecessary deployments, and (3) the
airbag being unavailable for a second impact which could be more severe and in
which the airbag would be needed.” (Sharpe Decl., ¶ 21.) 
 Based on Dr. Sharpe’s opinion, Defendant shows
that no triable issue of material fact exists as to the existence of a design
defect under the risk-benefit test.
Next, Defendant argues that the
Kia Optima was not defective under the consumer expectation test. Defendant appears
to argue that an ordinary reasonable consumer’s expectations are shaped by the
owner’s manual for the Kia Optima, which states that “[t]here is no single
speed at which the air bags will inflate” and that they are “designed to
inflate based upon the severity of a collision and its direction.” (Lonnie
Decl., Ex. I, p. 2.) The manual further states that a number of factors
determine whether airbags will inflate, including, but not limited to, “vehicle
speed, angles of impact, and, the density and stiffness of the vehicles or
objects which [the] vehicle hits in the collision.” (Lonnie Decl., Ex. I, p. 2.)
The manual also identifies low-speed collisions as one of the circumstances in
which airbags will not deploy “because they may not provide benefits beyond the
protection of the seat belts in such collisions.” (Lonnie Decl., Ex. I, p. 4.) 
Accordingly, Defendant shows
that no reasonable consumer could expect that an air bag would deploy in a
low-speed collision because the owner’s manual identifies low-speed collisions
as one circumstance in which air bags would not deploy.  
Last, Defendant argues that
Plaintiff cannot establish that any design defect, if it existed, caused
Plaintiff’s injuries. (Stephen v. Ford Motor Co. (2005) 134 Cal.App.4th
1363, 1373 (“A product liability case must be based on substantial evidence
establishing both the defect and causation (a substantial probability that the
design defect, and not something else, caused the plaintiff’s injury . . . “).)
Plaintiff testified that he sustained injuries to his neck and did not injure
his head or chest. Defendant argues that air bag deployment would not have mitigated
or prevented Plaintiff’s soft tissue injuries because the air bas are “intended
to mitigate potentially serious to fatal head and chest injuries for belted,
properly positined occupants.” (Sharpe Decl., ¶ 16.) Further, the potential for
serious injury to belted occupants with or without air bag deployment is
similarly small for the head, face, neck, spine, thorax, and abdomen in low
speed frontal collisions. (Sharpe Decl., ¶ 19.) According to Dr. Sharpe, field
accident data reflects that “seat belt use alone is an effective means of
restraint” in lower speed events and that the risk of a serious injury is
increased if the air bags are deployed. (Ibid.) 
Therefore, Defendant meets its
burden to demonstrate that Plaintiff cannot show that the nondeployment of air
bags caused his injuries. 
In opposition, Plaintiff argues
that Dr. Sharpe’s declaration relies on “case specific information” and facts without
foundation or a hearsay exception. Plaintiff never identifies what information
or facts he takes specific issue with. The Court also disagrees with
Plaintiff’s asssertion that Dr. Sharpe’s opinion is purely conclusory. Dr.
Sharpe sets forth numerous factors and identifies multiple studies which she
relied on in order to reach her conclusion and Plaintiff does not dispute any
of them. Plaintiff also argues that summary judgment should be denied because a
reasonable consumer could expect the frontal air bags to deploy. 
Plaintiff offers the declaration
of his expert, Felix Lee (“Lee”), a forensic mechanical engineer. (Ex Parte,
Ex. 2, ¶ 2.) Lee states that based on the “frontal change in velocity of 7.5 to
8 mph”, he calculated that the likelihood of airbag deployment for Plaintiff’s
vehicle was approximately 40%” and the collision severity “[fell] within the
bounds of other real-world underride collisions where the frontal airbag have
[sic] deployed.” (Id., ¶¶ 4-5.) However, Lee does not address any of the
risks or benefits of the air bag system’s threshold for deployment in low-speed
collisions raised by Dr. Sharpe. Lee also does not create a triable issue of
fact regarding the circumstances of the collision because he, like Dr. Sharpe,
agree that the crash severity of the collision was about 7.5 to 8 mph. 
Plaintiff suggests the existence
of a manufacturing defect by including an online printout of a document
purporting to identify a recall for 2016 Kia Optima vehicles for frontal air
bags. However, even if, as Plaintiff contends, a triable issue of fact exists as
to the existence of a defect (either due to an air bag recall or as measured by
an ordinary consumer’s reasonable expectations), Plaintiff offers no evidence to
create a reasonable inference that his soft tissue injuries could have been
mitigated or prevented if the air bags had deployed. Moreover, to the extent
that Plaintiff claims he suffered additional injuries other than his soft
tissue injuries which Defendant did not mention, Plaintiff offers no evidence
of those additional injuries into the record. Plaintiff’s response to
Defendant’s separate statement refers to a medical report that is not attached
as an exhibit. (Plaintiff’s Response to UMF Nos. 15, 18.) 
Accordingly, because Plaintiff
fails to show that triable issues of material fact exist regarding the element
of causation, Defendant’s motion for summary judgment is GRANTED. 
V.     CONCLUSION
Defendant’s motion for summary judgment
is GRANTED.
 
Moving party to give notice.  
 
Dated
this 4th
day of October
2024 
 




 


 




 


William A. Crowfoot
Judge of the Superior Court




 
 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at ALHDEPT3@lacourt.org indicating
intention to submit on the tentative as directed by the instructions provided
on the court website at www.lacourt.org. 
Please be advised that if you submit on the tentative and elect not to appear
at the hearing, the opposing party may nevertheless appear at the hearing and
argue the matter.  Unless you receive a
submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume that others
might appear at the hearing to argue.  If
the Court does not receive emails from the parties indicating submission on
this tentative ruling and there are no appearances at the hearing, the Court
may, at its discretion, adopt the tentative as the final order or place the
motion off calendar.
 