 Case Number:  23AHCV00415    Hearing Date:   October 4, 2024    Dept:  3 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - NORTHEAST
DISTRICT
 



DAVID HUANG, et al., 
                    Plaintiff(s),
          vs.
 
AURORA
   LAS ENCINAS LLC, et al.,
 
                    Defendant(s).


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


     CASE NO.:  23AHCV00415
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: DEFENDANT AURORA LAS ENCINAS, LLC’S MOTION TO QUASH
   DEPOSITION NOTICE AND FOR PROTECTIVE ORDER 
 
Dept.
  3
8:30
  a.m.
October
   4, 2024




 


)


 



 
I.           
INTRODUCTION
Defendant Aurora Las Encinas, LLC (“Defendant”)
moves for an order quashing a deposition notice for their person most
knowledgeable. This action was filed by plaintiffs Rose Lee Chun Huang,
individually and as successor in-interest of David Huang (“Huang”), Michael
Huang, and Evelyn Huang (collectively, “Plaintiffs”). The deposition notice at
issue requests Defendant produce a person most knowledgeable on 5 categories of
testimony and requests Defendant produce 9 categories of documents.  
Defendant moves to preclude questioning
and production of documents relating to: (1) Huang’s roommate’s admission to
Defendant’s facility, (2) the roommate’s room placement while he was a patient
at Defendant’s facility, including but not limited to his room assignments,
discipline, monitoring, roommate assessments, and violence interventions; (3)
Defendant’s knowledge of the roommate’s history before he was accepted as a
patient, and (4) the “financials of the contract(s) between the County of Los
Angeles and [Defendant].” (Motion, p. 2.) 
II.         
LEGAL
STANDARD
“Before, during, or after a deposition,
any party, any deponent, or any other affected natural person or organization
may promptly move for a protective order.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.420, subd.
(a).) “The court, for good cause shown, may make any order that justice
requires to protect any party, deponent, or other natural person or
organization from unwarranted annoyance, embarrassment, or oppression, or undue
burden and expense.” (Id., subd. (b).) Such an order may require that the
deposition be taken at a different time, that certain matters not be inquired
into, that the scope of the examination be limited to certain matters, and that
all or some items designated in the deposition notice not be produced. (Ibid.)

III.       
DISCUSSION
Defendant argues a protective order is
necessary to “prevent disclosure of responsive documents protected by the
roommate’s and other patient’s constitutional right to privacy, the healthcare
provider-privilege, and sensitive financial information privacy, which rights
must be weighed against other countervailing interests.” (Motion, p. 13.) 
On July 1, 2024, the Court previously
ordered Defendant to provide documents pertaining to the roommate’s physical
and verbal altercations, as well as the roommate’s identity. The Court detailed
the exception to the psychotherapist-patient privilege where the patient
presents a serious danger of violence to others. (Evid. Code, § 1024.) Following
that reasoning, as well as acknowledging Plaintiffs’ legitimate interest in
determining the circumstances surrounding Huang’s death and Defendant’s
potential culpability, the Court does not see an issue with inquiring about
Huang’s roommate’s admission, room placement, discipline, monitoring, roommate
assessments, and any “violence interventions”, as stated in the deposition
notice, insofar as the information is directly related to Defendant’s knowledge
of his violent or aggressive behavior. (Motion, Ex. A, pp. 2-3.) The extent of
Defendant’s knowledge of any tendency of the roommate to be violent or
aggressive is related to their culpability in placing him in the same room as
Huang. Therefore, the motion for a protective order is DENIED in part to allow
Plaintiffs to question Defendant’s PMK about Huang’s roommate’s admission, room
placement, and Defendant’s knowledge about the roommate only as it relates to
any violent or aggressive behavior.  
Defendant also wishes to prevent
Plaintiffs from inquiring about the contracts between Defendant and the County for
programs which place mentally incompetent offenders at Defendants’ facility.
Defendant objects on the grounds of third-party privacy, the healthcare
provider-patient privilege, and financial privacy. 
Plaintiffs argue that good cause exists
to pursue these areas of inquiry (along with the associated requests for
production) because Defendant has a contractual and financial relationship with
the County to take on the County’s most problematic and difficult patients,
including those who were seriously disabled, violent, or placed in long-term
mental health holds. (Opp., p. 4.) Plaintiffs claim that Defendant was trying
to increase its profits by taking on problematic mental health patients from
the County which it was ill-equipped to handle due to chronic overstaffing and
undertraining. (Opp., pp. 7-8.) Plaintiffs’ claims of staffing and training
problems are unsubstantiated by any evidence although Plaintiffs submit an
email between Defendant’s CEO and the County in which the County suggests entering
into a “special agreement with increased rates” for a patient who is
problematic and assaultive after a request for placement was denied. (Opp., Ex.
7.) 
Whether Defendant has a pattern or
practice of accepting mental health patients with a known history of violent or
aggressive tendencies, whether Defendant was or believed it was capable of
providing care to those patients, and whether Defendant was financially
incentivized to do so, is relevant and/or reasonably calculated to lead to the
discovery of admissible evidence especially as to Defendant’s decision to place
Huang in a room with a roommate.
Plaintiffs overreach, however, in
demanding all documents and communications relating to Defendant’s contractual
relationship with the County. The Court is not inclined to order the production
of more patient-specific records. But Plaintiffs should be able to generally
inquire about Defendant’s relationship with the County, its acceptance of
patients with a history of violent or aggressive behavior, the number of those
patients compared to the total number of patients it is accepting from the
County, and any differences in the rates of compensation paid to the Defendant
by the County for such patients and any differences in the allocation of risk
borne by the Defendant and the County for such patients. 
Last, Defendant argues that there are 2,000
encrypted emails between it and the County and that Plaintiffs should subpoena such
records directly from the County. This is not persuasive. Defendant did not
object on the grounds that producing those emails would be unduly burdensome or
expensive to un-encrypt them, or that it does not have the means to do so.  Therefore, the request for a protective order
based on the availability of communications from the County is denied. 
IV.       
CONCLUSION
Defendant’s motion for a protective
order is DENIED in part to allow Plaintiffs to question Defendant’s PMK on
topics relating to Huang’s roommate’s admission, room placement, discipline,
monitoring, roommate assessments, and any “violence interventions” as long as
the inquiry is related to the roommate’s violent or aggressive behavior. Plaintiffs
may also inquire about Defendant’s contractual and financial relationship with
the County and require the production of documents and communications, so long
as the inquiry is limited to Defendant’s decision to accept patients with a
history of violent or aggressive behavior from the County from 2018 to the
present. 
Dated
this 4th
day of October, 2024
 




 


 




 


       William A.
  Crowfoot
Judge of the Superior Court
 




 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at ALHDEPT3@lacourt.org indicating
intention to submit on the tentative as directed by the instructions provided
on the court website at www.lacourt.org. Please be advised that if you submit
on the tentative and elect not to appear at the hearing, the opposing party may
nevertheless appear at the hearing and argue the matter. Unless you receive a
submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume that others
might appear at the hearing to argue. If the Court does not receive emails from
the parties indicating submission on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may, at its discretion, adopt the
tentative as the final order or place the motion off calendar.
 