  Case Number:  21AHCV00123    Hearing Date:   October 4, 2024    Dept:  3 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - NORTHEAST
DISTRICT
 



YANHONG XING,
                    Plaintiff(s),
          vs.
 
SHUNJUN
  ZHANG, et al., 
 
                    Defendant(s).


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


      CASE NO.: 21AHCV00123
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: PLAINTIFF’S’S MOTION FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT OR, IN THE ALTERNATIVE,
  SUMMARY ADJUDICATION
 
 
Dept.
  3
8:30
  a.m.
October
  4, 2024



 
I.      INTRODUCTION
          On November
30, 2021, plaintiff Yanhong Xing (“Plaintiff”) filed this action against
defendants Shunjun Zhang (“Zhang”), Meiju Group, LLC (“Meiju Group”), Huiyi Xie
(“Xie”) and Queena Wei (“Wei”) for breach of contract, fraud, and unlawful
immigration consultant practice. 
          Plaintiff
filed the operative First Amended Complaint on March 9, 2022. On May 17, 2024,
Plaintiff filed this motion for summary judgment or, in the alternative,
summary adjudication, against Zhang, Xie, and Meiju Group. The motion is
unopposed. 
 
II.     LEGAL
STANDARDS
A plaintiff moving for summary judgment
must show that there is no defense by proving each element of the cause of
action entitling the party to judgment on that cause of action. (Code Civ.
Proc., § 437c, subd. (p)(1).) The moving party bears the initial burden of
production to make a prima facie showing that there are no triable issues of
material fact. (Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 C4th 826,
850.) If the moving party carries this burden, it causes a shift, and the
opposing party is then subject to its own burden of production to make a prima
facie showing that a triable issue of material fact exists. (Ibid.) 
III.    DISCUSSION
Plaintiff relies on deemed admissions
to establish every element of her claims. “[A] deemed admitted order
establishes, by judicial fiat, that a nonresponding party has responded to the
requests by admitting the truth of all matters contained therein.”  (Wilcox
v. Birtwhistle (1999) 21 Cal.4th 973, 979.) 
Requests for admissions “differs fundamentally from the other five
discovery tools (depositions, interrogatories, inspection demands, medical
examinations, and expert witness exchanges) . . . [because] admission requests
seek to eliminate the need for proof:
‘The purpose of the admissions procedure . . . is to limit the triable issues
and spare the parties the burden and expense of litigating undisputed
issues.’  Sometimes, the admissions
obtained will even leave the party making them vulnerable to summary
judgment.”  [Citations.]  Matters that are admitted or deemed admitted
through RFA discovery devices are conclusively established in the litigation
and are not subject to being contested through contrary evidence.  [Citation.]” 
(St. Mary v. Superior Court (2014) 223 Cal.App.4th 762, 775.)
          Here,
Plaintiff served Zhang and Meiju Group with Requests for Admission (Set Two) (“RFAs”)
on November 15, 2023. (Ma Decl., ¶ 2.) On May 7, 2024, the RFAs were deemed
admitted. (Ma Decl., Ex. C.) Plaintiff contends that the RFAs establish each
element of her three claims for breach of contract, fraud, and unlawful
immigration consulting. 
          The
Court notes that Plaintiff does not cite to any deemed admissions by Xie.
Therefore, Plaintiff does not establish any of her causes of action as asserted
against Xie. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2033.410, subd. (b) [any admission made by a party
is binding only on that party for the purposes of the pending action].) Accordingly,
the motion for summary judgment is DENIED and the motion for summary
adjudication is DENIED with respect to Xie. 
The Court thus proceed to
analyze Plaintiff’s motion for summary adjudication with respect to Zhang and
Meiju Group (collectively, “Defendants”) and Plaintiff’s three causes of
action. 
          First,
for Plaintiff’s breach of contract claim, she must prove “(1) the contract, (2)
the plaintiff’s performance of the contract or excuse for nonperformance, (3)
the defendant’s breach, and (4) the resulting damage to the plaintiff.” (Richman
v. Hartley (2014) 224 Cal.App.4th 1182, 1186. The deemed admissions
establish the existence of an agreement wherein Defendants offered to assist
Plaintiff with her EB-3 petition, offered to assist with Plaintiff’s employment
as an officer or manager at Supermarket, and take all steps to file an EB-3
Petition on Plaintiff’s behalf. (UMF Nos. 1-6.) In exchange, Plaintiff would
agree to pay $218,000 in addition to attorney fees, with $158,000 to be paid as
a deposit which would be invested in the Supermarket so that Plaintiff could be
employed there. (UMF No. 7-8.) Plaintiff establishes the element of her
performance, breach, and damages because Defendants admit they received the
$158,000 deposit but did not have any connections wth the Supermarket and could
not employ Plaintiff as promised. (UMF No. 9-11.) 
          Accordingly,
the unopposed motion for summary adjudication as to the First Cause of Action
is GRANTED as to Defendants. 
          Second,
for Plaintiff’s fraud claim, Plaintiff must establish the following elements:
“‘(a) [the defendant’s] misrepresentation (false representation, concealment,
or nondisclosure); (b) knowledge of falsity (or ‘scienter’); (c) intent to
defraud, i.e., to induce reliance; (d) justifiable reliance [by the plaintiff];
and (e) resulting damage.’” (Engalla v. Permanente Medical Group, Inc.
(1997) 15 Cal.4th 951, 974.) 
Defendants have admitted they never
intended to help Plaintiff with any of the terms set forth in their agreement
and that they did not invest Plaintiff’s money into the Supermarket or take any
steps to arrange for Plaintiff’s employment. (UMF No. 18, 29, 30, 31.) However,
none of the RFAs are evidence of Plaintiff’s justifiable reliance. (Burch v.
Gombos (2000) 82 Cal.App.4th 352, 359 [RFA response preclusive only to the
extent required by a literal reading of the RFA].) Therefore, Plaintiff does
not show that every element of her fraud claim can be established. The motion
is DENIED as to the Second Cause of Action. 
Last, Plaintiff claims that Defendants
unlawfully acted as immigration consultants in violation of Business and
Professions Code section 22440, et seq. (Motion, p. 8.) Plaintiff claims that
Defendants violated sections 22440, 22441(a)(3), 22441(a)(5), 22442.3, and
22444 because they admit that they were not licensed to act as immigration
consultants by the state of California and were engaged in the business of
proiding immigration assistance. (UMF Nos. 22-23.) Plaintiff claims that
Defendants are subject to treble damages and that Plaintiff is entitled to fees
and costs pursuant to section 22446.5. The Court addresses each statute that
was allegedly violated below. 
First, section 22440 states that
it “is unlawful for any person, for compensation, other than persons authorized
to practice law or authorized by federal law to represent persons before the
Board of Immigration Appeals or the United States Citizenship and Immigration
Services, to engage in the business or act in the capacity of an immigration
consultant within this state except as provided by this chapter.” Therefore,
this statute itself does not give rise to a cause of action. 
Second, although Plaintiff
alleges that Defendants have admitted that they are not licensed to act as
immigration consultants, there is no requirement for a license set forth in the
statutory scheme. Instead, it is unlawful for a person to act in the capacity
of an immigration consultant unless the person has “on file with the Secretary
of State a disclosure statement and a bond.” (Bus. & Prof. Code, §
22443.3.) 
Section 22441 identifies the
type of nonlegal aistance or advice that a immigration consultant may provide.
Subdivisions (a)(3) and (a)(5) permit an immigration consultant to secure
supporting documents or refer people who can “undertake legal represntation
activities for a person in an immigration matter.” Therefore, the fact that
Defendants performed those activities is not unlawful, without an admission
that they are not authorized to do so. 
Section 22442.3 states, in
relevant part, that “[a]n immigration consultant shall not, with the intent to
mislead, literally translate, from English into another language, any words or
titles, including, but not limited to, “notary public,” “notary,” “licensed,”
“attorney,” or “lawyer,” that imply that the person is an attorney, in any
document, including an advertisement, stationery, letterhead, business card, or
other comparable written material describing the immigration consultant.”
Although Defendants have admitted that the agreement was prepared “with
intention of misleading and implying that [Defendants] [were] [attorneys] in
violation of Business and Professions Code section 22442.3, the intention to
mislead is irrelevant if no such translations were actually made in the
agreement. 
Section 22444 identifies
unlawful acts including making false or misleading statements to a client while
providing services to that client. Here, Defendants admit that they told
Plaintiff that she would be employed at the Supermarket even though they did
not have any connections to the Supermarket, had no ability to fulfill that promise,
and never took any steps to arrange for Plaintiff’s employment. Defendants also
admit that they told Plaintiff on multiple occasions that her immigration
petition was underway, and she had nothing to worry about, even though Defendants
never provided any documentation or information to the immigration attorneys
that Plaintiff was referred to and retained. Therefore, Plaintiff successfully
establishes a violation of section 22444, which imposes a “civil penalty not to
exceed $100,000 for each violation” on a person who violates the regulations
for immigration consultants set forth in Chapter 19.5. (Bus. & Prof. Code,
§ 22445, subd. (a)(1).) In addition, Plaintiff is entitled to “an amount equal
to treble the amount of actual damages or one thousand ($1,000) per violation,
whichever is greater,” as well as attorneys’ fees and costs.  (Bus. & Prof. Code, § 22446.5, subd.
(a).)
In assessing the amount of a
civil penalty, “the court may consider relevant circumstances presented by the
parties to the case, including, but not limited to, the following: the nature
and seriousness of the misconduct, the number of violations, the persistence of
the misconduct, the length of time over which the misconduct occurred, the
willfulness of the defendant's misconduct, and the defendant's assets,
liabilities, and net worth.” (Bus.& Prof. Code, § 22445, subd (a)(2).) 
Plaintiff requests a civil
penalty of the maximum $100,000 but provides no explanation for this amount.
Therefore, Plaintiff’s evidence of damages are limited to the $158,000 that she
paid to Defendants for their unlawful services. Accordingly, for Plaintiff’s
third cause of action against Defendants, Plaintiff is entitled to an award of $632,000,
consisting of $158,000 in damages and treble damages of $474,000, as well as reasonable
fees and costs. 
VI.    CONCLUSION
          Based on the
foregoing, the motion for summary judgment is DENIED. Plaintiff’s motion for
summary adjudication is GRANTED in part only as to her First and Third Causes
of Action against Zhang and Meiju Group. The motion for summary adjudication is
otherwise denied. 
Moving party to give notice.
Dated
this 4th day of October 2024
 




 


 




 


William A. Crowfoot
Judge of the Superior Court




 
          
Parties
who intend to submit on this tentative must send an email to the Court at
ALHDEPT3@lacourt.org indicating intention to submit on the tentative as
directed by the instructions provided on the court’s website at
www.lacourt.org. Please be advised that if you submit on the tentative and
elect not to appear at the hearing, the opposing party may nevertheless appear
at the hearing and argue the matter. 
Unless you receive a submission from all other parties in the matter,
you should assume that others might appear at the hearing to argue.