  Case Number:  21STCV03986    Hearing Date:   June 17, 2024    Dept:  45 Superior Court of
California
County
of Los Angeles
 



PEOPLE OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA ex
  rel. FRANK J. CANNATA,
 
                             Relator,
 
                              vs.
LUCKY’S
  TWO-WAY RADIOS, INC., a Nevada Corporation; BUDDY CORPORATION, a California
  Corporation; JAMES A. KAY, JR., an individual; DOES 1 through 20, Inclusive,
 
                              Defendants.


Case
  No.:  21STCV03986
DEPARTMENT
  45
 
 
 
[TENTATIVE]
  RULING
 
 
 
Action
  Filed: 02/01/2021 
[1st
  Amended Complaint Filed: 02/09/2023]
Trial
  Date: 09/03/2024



 
Hearing
date:              06/17/2024
Moving
Party:             Relator
Frank J. Cannata 
Responding
Party:      Defendants
Lucky’s Two-Way Radios, Inc.; Buddy Corporation;                                        and
James A Kay Jr.
Motion:                       Defendant’s Relator’s
Motion to Quash
The Court
considered the moving papers, opposition, and reply. Relator’s Motion to Quash
is GRANTED, pending in camera review of the subject
documents.

 

Background
             This case stems from accusations of insurance
fraud. On February 1, 2021, Frank J. Cannata (Relator) filed a Complaint
against three defendants: (1) Lucky’s Two-Way Radios, Inc.; (2) Buddy
Corporation; (3) and James A. Kay Jr (collectively Defendants). The Complaint
alleges that Defendants violated the California Insurance Frauds Prevention Act
(IFPA or INS §1871.7). On February 9, 2023, Relator filed the operative First
Amended Complaint (FAC). The violations are grounded in Plaintiff’s allegations
that Defendants owned several pieces of defunct electronic equipment. (FAC,
pgs. 5-7.) The Defendants allege that this equipment was stolen by Relator,
this allegation in and of itself is the basis for a separate case, Lucky’s
Two-Way Radios, Inc., et al. vs. Frank J. Cannata, Los Angeles Superior
Court Case No. LC106864 (hereinafter, Case No. LC106864). (See Defendants’
Request for Judicial Notice, Exh. 1.) Per Plaintiff, after Defendants reported
the theft, they claimed that the value of the loss was $881,190.43. Plaintiff
alleges that this value is grossly inflated and constitutes fraud upon
Defendants’ insurer Hartford Fire Insurance Company, as the fair market value
of the missing electronics is less than $20,000.00. (FAC, ¶ 29.) Relator then
filed suit. 
            The
motion now before the Court is Relator’s Motion to Quash the business records
subpoena propounded by Defendants on the California Department of Insurance. Defendants
oppose the Motion, and Relator files a reply. 
Legal
Standard
            The
governing rule here is Code Civ. Proc. §1987.1 which allows a court to quash a
subpoena entirely or partially, and issue an order to protect parties,
witnesses or consumers from unreasonable or oppressive demands including
violations of privacy. 
 
Discussion
            Relator uses their moving papers to make
three main arguments: (a) the California Department of Insurance has subpoena
immunity; (b) Defendants lack good cause to burden a non-party witness; and (c)
communications between a Qui Tam Relator and the Government are
protected by Attorney-Client Privilege and Attorney Work-Product Privilege. In
the event that privilege must be determined by review of the documents, Relator
requests an in-camera review of the documents sought by subpoena. As explained
below, the Court grants the instant Motion, pending in-camera review of the
documents sought by subpoena.  
 
a)     
The Department of Insurance Does
Not Have Subpoena Immunity
            Relator’s
first argument fails because the Court finds that the State of California has
waived any “subpoena immunity” by the adoption of Gov. Code §68097.1(b). 
            Relator
contends that Estate of Gonzalez v. Hickman (2006) 466 F.Supp.2d 1226 (Gonzalez)
stands for the proposition that the Eleventh Amendment bars subpoenas.
However, if a state has waived that immunity with respect to subpoena process,
the state no longer possess that immunity. The Eleventh Amendment confers
sovereign immunity upon the federal and state governments, granting them
immunity from lawsuits by their own citizens, unless they consent to such
suits. As it pertains to the case at bar, the Eleventh Amendment could be asserted
to bar a subpoena, as preventing the state from being subjected to a judicial
process against its will. Any consent must be unequivocally expressed. (Pennhurst
State School & Hosp. v. Halderman (1985) 465 U.S. 89, 99.) 
            Here
in Gov. Code §68097.1(b), the state of California has outlined the process by
which to serve a subpoena when “any other state employee” is required as a
witness before a court. Outlining a process by which to receive a subpoena is
only consistent with the intent to comply with it, not the intent to exercise
any immunity to it. Therefore, the California Department of Insurance does not
have subpoena immunity and can be compelled to comply.        
b)     
Defendants lack good cause to
burden non-party witness
            For
trial subpoenas duces tecum, an affidavit shall be served with a subpoena duces
tecum, showing good cause, specifying exact matters to be produced,
setting forth materiality, and stating the witness has the matters or things.
(Terry v. Slico (2009) 175 Cal.App.4th 352, 356. Emphasis added.)
Defendants contend that verifying whether Relator complied with the statutory
prerequisites outlined in IFPA is good cause to issue the subpoena to a
non-party. However, Relator rebuffs this argument citing Calcor Space
Facility, Inc. v. Superior Court (1997) 53 Cal.App. 4th 216, 225
(Calcor) which states that if the discovery can be obtained between the
parties, then the parties must do so. An exception to this exists if a showing
has been made that the material obtained from the party would be unreliable. (Id.)
No such showing has been made by Defendant, and Relator has made clear that
they possess the documents Defendant seeks. (Moving Papers, 6:7-11.) Here,
since the documents can be obtained from a party to the case, Defendant lacks
good cause to burden a non-party witness.
c)     
In camera review is appropriate to
determine if the documents requested are covered by privilege
            The
final issue is whether the documents sought from a non-party are protected by
either attorney-client privilege or the attorney work-product doctrine. “The
attorney-client privilege, set forth at Evidence Code section 954, confers a
privilege on the client ‘to refuse to disclose, and to prevent another from
disclosing, a confidential communication between client and lawyer....’” (Costco
Wholesale Corp. v. Superior Court, (2009) 47 Cal.4th 725, 740.)
“Work produced by an attorney's agents and consultants, as well as the
attorney's own work product, is protected by the attorney work-product
doctrine.” (Citizens for Ceres v. Superior Court, (2013) 217 Cal.App.4th
889, 911.)
            The
documents subject to the subpoena are “correspondence from Frank Cannata, Levi
Lesches, Esq. or anyone acting on their behalf relating to the claims made in
Cannata (LASC 21STCV03986) Insurance Fraud Complaint…” Relator contends that
these documents are covered by the attorney-client privilege because both the
Government and Relator have a commonality of interest, and thus, not only does
sharing the documents with a state agency not result in a waiver of either the
attorney-client privilege or work-product immunity, but that the Government is
fundamentally a client. Supporting this contention, Relator cites to Amphastar
Pharmaceuticals, Inc. v. Aventis Pharma SA (2013) WL 12136380 (Amphastar
I). 
            Defendants
counter arguing that the subsequent clarification in Amphastar
Pharmaceuticals, Inc. v. Aventis Pharma SA (2013) WL 12149230 (Amphastar
II) stated that the joint prosecution privilege does not extend to the
underlying facts contained within those communications between the relator and
the government entity. (Amphastar II, supra, at 5.) The Court notes that
neither case is binding, and that the prerequisite to share these documents
with the California Department of Insurance was a requirement that Relator
should not be punished for abiding by. (McKesson HBOC, Inc. v.
Superior Court (2004) 115 Cal.App.4th 1229, 1239, noting that
the disclosure must be voluntary.) Therefore, given that the documents may be
covered by a privilege Relator did not voluntarily waive, the Court deems the
documents appropriate for in-camera review. (Pack v. Kings County Human
Services Agency (2001) 89 Cal.App.4th 821, 838.)         
 
Conclusion
            Accordingly,
Relator’s Motion to Quash is GRANTED, pending in camera review of
the subject documents. 
            It
is so ordered.
 
Dated: June 17, 2024 
 
_______________________
MEL RED RECANA
Judge of the
Superior Court
 
 
 
 