 Case Number:  24STCV21436    Hearing Date:   December 19, 2024    Dept:  76 The following
tentative ruling is issued pursuant to Rule of Court 3.1308 at 1:20 PM on December 18,
2024.  
Notice of intent
to appear is REQUIRED pursuant to California Rule of Court 3.1308(a)(1).  The Court does not desire oral argument on
the motion addressed herein.  
As required by
Rule 3.1308(a)(1), any party seeking oral argument must notify ALL OTHER
PARTIES and the staff of Department 76 by 4:00 p.m. on December 18,
2024.
Notice to
Department 76 may be sent by email to smcdept76@lacourt.org or telephonically
at 213-830-0776. 
Per Rule of Court
3.1308, if notice of intention to appear is not given, oral argument will not
be permitted.            This
is a Lemon Law action.
            Plaintiff
Daniel Korda moves to compel the deposition of Defendant’s person most
knowledgeable.
TENTATIVE RULING
            Plaintiff Daniel Korda’s motion to
compel the deposition of Defendant Volkswagen
Group of America, Inc.’s person most knowledgeable is GRANTED as to Categories
Nos. 1 – 15, with No. 4 being GRANTED IN PART as set forth below. The motion to
compel production of documents is GRANTED as to Requests Nos. 1 – 10, with No.
6 being GRANTED IN PART as set forth below, and is DENIED as to Request No. 11.
            The parties are to meet and confer
as to the February deposition date.
            No sanctions were requested.
Motion To Compel Deposition With Production of
Documents
Plaintiff
Daniel Korda moves to compel the deposition of Defendant’s person most
knowledgeable.
            Civ. Proc.
Code § 2025.450 provides in pertinent part:

(a) If, after service of a deposition
notice, a party to the action or an officer, director, managing agent, or
employee of a party, or a person designated by an organization that is a party
under Section 2025.230, without having served a valid objection under Section 2025.410[1],
fails to appear for examination, or to proceed with it, or to produce for
inspection any document, electronically stored information, or tangible thing
described in the deposition notice, the party giving the notice may move for an
order compelling the deponent's attendance and testimony, and the production
for inspection of any document, electronically stored information, or tangible
thing described in the deposition notice.

(b) A motion under subdivision (a) shall
comply with both of the following:

 (1) The motion shall set forth specific facts showing good cause justifying the
production for inspection of any document, electronically stored information,
or tangible thing described in the deposition notice.

 (2) The motion shall be accompanied
by a meet and confer declaration under Section 2016.040, or, when the deponent
fails to attend the deposition and produce the documents, electronically stored
information, or things described in the deposition notice, by a declaration
stating that the petitioner has contacted the deponent to inquire about the
nonappearance.

. . .

(g) 

 (1) If a motion under subdivision (a)
is granted, the court shall impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7
(commencing with Section 2023.010) in favor of the party who noticed the
deposition and against the deponent or the party with whom the deponent is
affiliated, unless the court finds that the one subject to the sanction acted
with substantial justification or that other circumstances make the imposition
of the sanction unjust.
. . .


     (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.450(a),
(b), (g)[bold emphasis added].)
 
            Relating
to this action, following Plaintiff’s October 10, 2024 service of notice of
Defendant’s October 23, 2024 PMK deposition, Defendant served objections on
October 17, 2024. (Quinn Decl., ¶¶ 5 – 6.) Plaintiff’s counsel engaged in
sufficient meet and confer efforts with Defendant’s counsel, but the parties
were unable to reach agreement on a deposition date, although dates in
mid-February were offered by Defendant’s counsel. (Quin Decl., ¶¶ 7 – 12.) The
parties were unable to reach an agreement as to the terms of a PMK deposition.
(Id. at ¶¶ 12, 13.) Plaintiff’s counsel indicates that Defendant will
not produce a PMK witness within a reasonable date range to discuss all
categories with production of all responsive documents. (Id., ¶ 16.)
            Civ.
Proc. Code, § 2025.280(a) provides:
(a) The service of a
deposition notice under Section 2025.240 is effective to require any deponent who is a party to the action or
an officer, director, managing agent, or employee of a party to attend and to
testify, as well as to produce any document, electronically stored information,
or tangible thing for inspection and copying.

(Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.280(a)[bold emphasis
added].)
 
       Civ. Proc. Code, § 2025.230 provides:
 
If the
deponent named is not a natural person, the deposition notice shall describe
with reasonable particularity the matters on which examination is requested. In
that event, the deponent shall designate
and produce at the deposition those of its officers, directors, managing
agents, employees, or agents who are most
qualified to testify on its behalf as to those matters to the extent of any
information known or reasonably available to the deponent.
 
     (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.230 [bold
emphasis and underlining added].)
            Defendant
is required to designate and produce a PMK on the 15 noticed deposition topics,
absent having obtained a protective order pursuant to Civ. Proc. Code, §
2025.420[2]
that a PMK need not be produced on certain topics.

            On
October 17, 2024, Defendant served Objections to the Notice of Deposition of
the person most knowledgeable for Volkswagen Group of America, Inc. (Quinn Decl.,
Exh. 2.) However, serving written objections, even if valid objections
for failure to comply with Civ. Proc. Code, § 2025.210 et seq., does not stay
the deposition or excuse attendance. If such objections are determined by the
Court to be valid, this merely precludes using the deposition testimony as
evidence pursuant to Civ. Proc. Code, § 2025.620.
 
(a) Any party served with a
deposition notice that does not comply with Article 2 (commencing with Section
2025.210) waives any error or irregularity unless that party promptly serves a
written objection specifying that error or irregularity at least three calendar
days prior to the date for which the deposition is scheduled, on the party
seeking to take the deposition and any other attorney or party on whom the
deposition notice was served.
 
(b) If an objection is made three
calendar days before the deposition date, the objecting party shall make
personal service of that objection pursuant to Section 1011 on the party who
gave notice of the deposition. Any deposition taken after the service of a
written objection shall not be used against the objecting party under Section
2025.620 if the party did not attend the
deposition and if the court determines that the objection was a valid one.
 
(c) In addition to serving this
written objection, a party may also move
for an order staying the taking of the deposition and quashing the deposition
notice. This motion shall be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration under
Section 2016.040. The taking of the
deposition is stayed pending the determination of this motion.

(Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.410 [bold emphasis and underlining added].)
 
            The
Court will address the objections asserted by Defendant as to each Category and
Request for Production as set forth in the Separate Statement:


¿        Categories
Nos. 1, 2, 3, 5, 6, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15 : GRANTED.
            
            Defendant’s
objections are OVERRULED as none justify refusal to produce a PMK to testify as
to repairs, recalls, documents and warranties pertinent to the subject vehicle,
such as would reveal Defendant’s knowledge of the recurring issues and the
ability or cost to fix it. These categories do not require expert testimony,
but rather percipient witness testimony as to the history of the subject vehicle
and relevant known issues that may have affected the subject vehicle. Objections
on the ground of privilege may be asserted at the deposition.
 
¿        Category
No. 4 : GRANTED IN PART.
 
            Defendant’s
objection on the ground of overbreadth is SUSTAINED. The category will be
limited to Technical Service Bulletins applicable to the subject vehicle. Objections
on the ground of privilege may be asserted at the deposition.
 
¿        Categories
Nos. 7, 8: GRANTED.
 
Defendant’s
objections are OVERRULED as none justify refusal to produce a PMK to testify as
to why Defendant decided not to repurchase Plaintiff’s vehicle. Objections on
the ground of privilege may be asserted at the deposition.
 
 
¿        Requests
For Production of Documents Nos. 1, 2: GRANT.
 
            In the separate
statement, Plaintiff has made a fact-specific showing of good cause for the
documents requested. (Civ. Proc. Code § 2025.450(b)(1).)
 
            Defendant’s
objections are OVERRULED as inapplicable. 
 
 
 
¿        Requests
For Production of Documents Nos. 3, 4: GRANT.
 
            In the separate
statement, Plaintiff has made a fact-specific showing of good cause for the
documents requested. (Civ. Proc. Code § 2025.450(b)(1).) Defendant knows
whether a TSB or recall applies to the subject vehicle, whereas Plaintiff may
not have the technical expertise to make such determination.
 
The
objections are OVERRULED. Indeed, there is no indication that all applicable
TSBs cannot be located and retrieved with an electronic search. Defendant has
not demonstrated that any privileges would apply to these documents.  “[I]t
is the burden of the objecting party to support the applicability of a
particular privilege.” (Denari v. Superior Court
(1989) 215 Cal.App.3d 1488, 1494.)
 
¿        Requests
For Production of Documents Nos. 5, 6 (in part): GRANT.
            
            As
to Request No. 6, it will be limited to the documents pertinent to the subject
vehicle only.
 
            In the separate
statement, Plaintiff has made a fact-specific showing of good cause for the
documents requested. (Civ. Proc. Code § 2025.450(b)(1).) 
 
            Defendant’s
objection on the ground of attorney-client privilege and attorney work-produce
doctrine is SUSTAINED to the extent that such privileged information is
responsive. Defendant is to produce a privilege log identifying which documents
were withheld, and on what basis. All other objections are OVERRULED as not
justified.
 
¿        Requests
For Production of Documents Nos. 7, 8: GRANT.
 
In the
separate statement, Plaintiff has made a fact-specific showing of good cause
for the documents requested. (Civ. Proc. Code § 2025.450(b)(1).) 
 
            Defendant’s
objections are OVERRULED as not justified.
 
¿        Requests
For Production of Documents Nos. 9, 10: GRANT.
 
In the
separate statement, Plaintiff has made a fact-specific showing of good cause
for the documents requested. (Civ. Proc. Code § 2025.450(b)(1).) 
 
Defendant’s
objection on the ground of attorney-client privilege and attorney work-produce
doctrine is SUSTAINED to the extent that such privileged information is
responsive. Defendant is to produce a privilege log identifying which documents
were withheld, and on what basis. All other objections are OVERRULED as not
justified.
 
¿        Request For
Production of Documents No. 11: DENY.
 
            Plaintiff’s
offered good cause in the separate statement is not persuasive as to the
detailed information sought. There is no explanation as to how the details
sought will tend in reason to prove or disprove a disputed fact of consequence
or lead to other evidence which will do so.
 
“Although the scope of civil discovery is broad, it is not limitless.”
(Calcor Space Facility, Inc. v. Superior Court (1997) 53 Cal.App.4th 216, 223
[61 Cal. Rptr. 2d 567].) Discovery devices must “be used as tools to facilitate
litigation rather than as weapons to wage litigation.” (Id. at p. 221.) A party
seeking to compel discovery must therefore “set forth specific facts showing
good cause justifying the discovery sought.” (§ 2031.310, subd. (b)(1); see
Calcor Space Facility, Inc. v. Superior Court, supra, 53 Cal.App.4th at p.
223.)  To establish good cause, a discovery proponent must identify a disputed fact that is of
consequence in the action and explain how the discovery sought will tend in
reason to prove or disprove that fact or lead to other evidence that will
tend to prove or disprove the fact.
 
(Digital Music News LLC v. Superior Court
(2014) 226 Cal.App.4th 216, 224 (bold emphasis and underlining added),
overruled on other grounds in Williams
v. Superior Court (2017) 3 Cal.5th 531, 557, n. 8.)
 
            Defendant’s
objection on the ground of burden is SUSTAINED. The burden of locating all of
the information sought outweighs the information to be gained from this
category.
 
            No
sanctions were requested. 
 
            The parties are to meet and confer
as to the February deposition date.
 


