  Case Number:  23STCV15028    Hearing Date:   November 27, 2024    Dept:  47 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Theresa M. Traber, Department 47
 
 
HEARING DATE:     November 27, 2024               TRIAL DATE: June
17, 2025
                                                           
CASE:                         Lauren Redmond v. Charles Schwab &
Co., Inc.
 
CASE NO.:                 23STCV15028            
 
(1)  
MOTION TO COMPEL DEPOSITION; REQUEST FOR
SANCTIONS
(2)  
MOTION FOR PROTECTIVE ORDER
 
MOVING PARTY:               (1) Defendants Charles Schwab & Co., Inc., Matthew
Floit, and Andrew Ludwick; (2) Plaintiff Lauren Redmond
 
RESPONDING PARTY(S): (1) Plaintiff
Lauren Redmond; (2) Defendants Charles Schwab & Co., Inc., Matthew Floit,
and Andrew Ludwick
 
STATEMENT
OF MATERIAL FACTS AND/OR PROCEEDINGS:
            
            This is an employment discrimination action that was filed on June 28,
2023. Plaintiff alleges that she was harassed and terminated based on her
gender and a perceived disability. 
 
Defendants move to compel Plaintiff
to appear for further deposition, and for sanctions. Plaintiff moves for a
protective order regarding the manner of taking further depositions. 
            
TENTATIVE RULING:
 
Defendant’s Motion to Compel
Deposition is GRANTED. Plaintiff is ordered to appear in-person for her
deposition at a time and place of Defendants’ choosing within 30 days of this
order.
 
Defendants’ request for sanctions
is DENIED.
 
Plaintiff’s Motion for a Protective
Order is GRANTED. Individual Defendants Matthew Floit and Andrew Ludwick may
attend Plaintiff’s in-person deposition by remote means only.
 
//
DISCUSSION:
 
Motion to Compel Deposition
 
            Defendants
move to compel Plaintiff to appear for further deposition, and for sanctions. 
 
Legal Standard for Compelling Further Deposition
 
Code of Civil Procedure Section
2025.610 provides in relevant part:
 
(a)¿Once any party has taken the
deposition of any natural person, including that of a party to the action,
neither the party who gave, nor any other party who has been served with a
deposition notice pursuant to Section 2025.240 may take a subsequent deposition
of that deponent. 
 
(b)¿Notwithstanding subdivision
(a), for good cause shown, the court may grant leave to take a subsequent
deposition, and the parties, with the consent of any deponent who is not a
party, may stipulate that a subsequent deposition be taken. 
 
(Code Civ. Proc. §2025.610(a)-(b).) Depositions may be
compelled under Code of Civil Procedure section 2025.450, which provides:
 
If, after service of a deposition notice,
a party to the action or an officer, director, managing agent, or employee of a
party, or a person designated by an organization that is a party under Section
2025.230, without having served a valid objection under Section 2025.410, fails
to appear for examination, or to proceed with it, or to produce for inspection
any document, electronically stored information, or tangible thing described in
the deposition notice, the party giving the notice may move for an order
compelling the deponent's attendance and testimony, and the production for
inspection of any document, electronically stored information, or tangible
thing described in the deposition notice.
 
(Code Civ. Proc. § 2025.450(a).)
 
Meet
and Confer
 
A motion to compel a deposition must
include a meet and confer declaration stating facts showing a reasonable and
good faith attempt at an informal resolution of each issue presented by the
motion. (Code Civ. Proc. §§ 2025.450(b); 2016.040.)  
 
            The
Declaration of Eric May in support of the motion sets forth a series of e-mail
exchanges between counsel for the parties regarding Plaintiff’s continued
deposition on August 13, August 19, and August 21, 2024. (Declaration of Eric
W. May ISO Mot. ¶¶ 9-10; Exhs. 6-7.) A bare exchange of e-mails asserting the
parties’ position is not a “reasonable and good-faith attempt” at informal
resolution of the issues presented in this motion, as it does not indicate any
meaningful expenditure of effort by either side to reach a mutually-acceptable
solution. Defendants have not satisfied their statutory meet-and-confer
obligations. 
 
Defendants’ Evidentiary
Objections
 
            Defendants
object to portions of the Declaration of Michael Freiman in support of the
opposition to this motion. As the Court does not rely on that declaration in
reaching its ruling, the Court does not consider Defendants’ objections. 
 
Missing Proof of Service
 
            Plaintiff’s
opposition papers are not accompanied by a proof of service. However, although
Defendants note the absence of a proof of service, Defendants do not claim that
they were not timely served with the opposition papers. The Court therefore
finds the absence of a proof of service to be immaterial in this context. 
 
Analysis
 
            Defendants
move to compel Plaintiff to appear for further deposition. On July 8, 2024,
Defendants noticed Plaintiff’s deposition to proceed on August 2, 2024,
pursuant to a June 17, 2024 order from this Court. (May Decl. ¶¶ 6-7; Exh. 4.) Plaintiff’s
deposition proceeded on August 2, but was terminated after three hours on the
record. (Declaration of Diana Tabacopoulos ISO Mot. ¶ 4; Exh. 1.) The
deposition was re-scheduled and re-noticed to continue on August 8, 2024.
(Tabacopolous Decl. ¶ 5; May Decl. ¶ 8 Exh. 5.) Plaintiff’s deposition resumed
on August 8, but Plaintiff’s counsel terminated the deposition after four hours
on the record. (Tabacopolous Decl. ¶ 6; Exh. 2.) Defendants argue that
Plaintiff had no valid basis to terminate the deposition and should be
compelled to proceed with a further deposition.
 
            Although
Plaintiff’s opposition contests the characterization of the deposition
proceedings and challenges Defendants’ demand for sanctions, Plaintiff
expressly states that she has agreed to attend a third day of deposition. The
Court therefore finds that the motion to compel deposition should be granted to
give force and effect to that agreement. 
 
Sanctions
 
Defendants request sanctions against Plaintiff and her
counsel, Michael J. Freiman, in the amount of $15,628.38. This amount is based
on 12 hours of attorney time at $625 per hour, including time spent
meeting and conferring with Plaintiff’s counsel, as well as drafting the
motion, plus $8,128.38 in travel and lodging expenses. (May Decl. ¶¶11-12.) Attorney
time spent meeting and conferring with the opposing party does not, in the
Court’s view, constitute reasonable attorney’s fees in the context of a
discovery motion, as those fees would have been incurred even if the parties
had resolved the dispute informally. Moreover, considering Defendants’ abject
failure to properly meet and confer with the opposing party before bringing
this motion, the Court finds the inclusion of time spent “meeting and
conferring” to be highly inappropriate. Even if those fees were proper, 12
hours of attorney time is excessive and unreasonably inflated on its face. The
Court therefore exercises its discretion to deny the request for sanctions
outright. Chavez v. City of Los Angeles (2010) 47 Cal. 4th 970, 989-991.) 
 
Conclusion
 
Defendants’ Motion to Compel Deposition is GRANTED. Plaintiff
is ordered to appear in-person for her deposition at a time and place of
Defendants’ choosing within 30 days of this order.
 
Defendants’ request for sanctions
is DENIED.
 
Motion for Protective Order
 
            Plaintiff
moves for a protective order to either permit Plaintiff to attend her
deposition remotely, or to require the individual Defendants to attend
Plaintiff’s deposition remotely.
 
Missing Proof of Service
 
            Plaintiff’s
moving papers are once again unaccompanied by a proof of service. Although
Defendants purport to object to the absence of a proof of service, Defendants
have substantively responded to this motion within the time required by Code of
Civil Procedure section 1005(b) and have not asserted that service was not
properly made. However, the Court has previously admonished Plaintiff for the
failure to include a proof of service with her papers. (See August 26, 2024
Minute Order.) While the Court will overlook Plaintiff’s omission on this
motion, the Court’s patience in this regard is at its limit. Plaintiff is
therefore expressly warned that future papers which are not accompanied by a
proof of service will not be considered. 
 
Defendants’ Evidentiary
Objections
 
            Defendants
object to portions of the Declaration of Lauren Redmond in support of the
motion. The Court rules on these objections as followed. 
 
            Objection
No. 1: OVERRULED. Failure to attach a proof of service is not a valid
objection.
 
            Objection
No. 3: OVERRULED. Plaintiff’s statements do not lack foundation, and the
remaining objections go to weight, not admissibility.
 
            Objection
No. 4: OVERRULED. Plaintiff’s statements do not lack foundation, and
the remaining objections go to weight, not admissibility.
Legal Standard
 
            Plaintiff’s
notice of motion purports to seek relief under Code of Civil Procedure section
2030.90, a non-existent statute. However, the substance of the motion seeks a
protective order regarding a deposition, which is properly brought under Code
of Civil Procedure section 2025.420. As Defendants have not objected based on a
deficient notice of motion and have centered their opposition on this statute,
the Court construes the motion as brought under section 2025.420. 
 
Code of Civil Procedure section
2025.420 authorizes a party, deponent, or any other affected person or entity
to move for a protective order. (Code Civ. Proc. § 2025.420(a).) Subdivision
(b) authorizes the Court to, for good cause shown, issue a protective order “to
protect any party or other natural person from unwarranted annoyance,
embarrassment, or oppression, or undue burden and expense.” (Code Civ. Proc. §
2025.420(b).) A protective order under this section may include, inter alia,
an order that the deposition be taken only on certain specified terms and
conditions. (Code Civ. Proc. § 2025.420(b)(5).) 
 
Meet and Confer
 
            Before
filing a motion for a protective order, Plaintiff is required to file a
declaration stating her efforts to meet and confer with the opposing party to
resolve this dispute, showing a “reasonable and good faith attempt” to resolve
informally the issues presented by the motion before filing the motion. (Code
Civ. Proc. §§ 2016.040; 2025.420(a).) 
 
            Plaintiff
has entirely failed to address this requirement, offering nothing to establish
any efforts to informally resolve this dispute. Plaintiff has not satisfied her
statutory meet-and-confer obligations.
 
Analysis
 
            Plaintiff
seeks a protective order either permitting her to attend her deposition
remotely or to require the individual Defendants, Matthew Floit and Andrew
Ludwick, to attend her deposition remotely, rather than in person. Plaintiff
contends that, in light of her anticipated discussion of her medical and
emotional history, examination of those matters in close physical proximity to
the individual Defendants will cause her severe embarrassment and anxiety.
(Declaration of Lauren Redmond ISO Mot. ¶¶ 4-6.) 
 
            Defendants vehemently
oppose Plaintiff’s motion but offer no relevant and permissible authority
precluding the relief she seeks. Defendants argue that the individual
Defendants have a right to attend depositions as a component of their due
process rights. (See Willoughby v. Superior Court (1985) 172 Cal.App.3d
890, 892 [excluding party from deposition “would significantly and unreasonably
impair trial counsel’s ability to effectively represent his client.”] However,
that right is not at issue on this motion, as Plaintiff does not seek to
exclude the individual Defendants from attending the deposition. In fact,
Defendants largely fail to reckon with the actual relief sought on this motion
to either permit Plaintiff’s remote appearance or to require the Defendants’
remote appearance, except to cite an unpublished 2019 Court of Appeal
opinion, Jensen v. Superior Court (Cal. Ct. App. Oct. 3, 2019) Case No.
B295875, 2019 WL 4874726, which purportedly required a trial court to permit a
party’s in-person attendance. As counsel for Defendants should know,
unpublished authorities may only be cited when relevant for the purposes of the
doctrines of law of the case, res judicata, or collateral estoppel, or when
relevant to a criminal or disciplinary action because it states reasons for a
decision affecting the same defendant or respondent in another such action.
(Cal. Rules of Court Rule 8.1115(b).) Barring those exceptions, unpublished
authorities “must not be cited or relied on.” (Id. Rule
8.1115(a).) Even if that authority were citable, the Court would find a 2019
ruling on remote attendance hindering the assistance of counsel to have little
relevance in November 2024, where remote attendance of legal proceedings has
become routine. 
 
            In
the Court’s view, the proposed relief of requiring the individual Defendants to
attend Plaintiff’s deposition remotely, rather than in person, is a narrowly
tailored solution to facilitate Plaintiff’s in-person deposition, as ordered supra,
while mitigating the risk of undue embarrassment to Plaintiff. The Court
therefore finds good cause to grant the protective order requested.
 
Conclusion
 
Plaintiff’s Motion for a Protective
Order is GRANTED. Individual Defendants Matthew Floit and Andrew Ludwick may
attend Plaintiff’s in-person deposition by remote means only. 
 
CONCLUSION:
 
Defendant’s Motion to Compel
Deposition is GRANTED. Plaintiff is ordered to appear in-person for her
deposition at a time and place of Defendants’ choosing within 30 days of this
order.
 
Defendants’ request for sanctions
is DENIED.
 
Plaintiff’s Motion for a Protective
Order is GRANTED. Individual Defendants Matthew Floit and Andrew Ludwick may
attend Plaintiff’s in-person deposition by remote means only. 
 
            Moving
Parties to give notice.
 
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
Dated:  November 27,
2024                            ___________________________________
                                                                                    Theresa
M. Traber
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court
 

            Any party may submit on the
tentative ruling by contacting the courtroom via email at Smcdept47@lacourt.org by no later than 4:00 p.m. the day
before the hearing. All interested parties must be copied on the email. It
should be noted that if you submit on a tentative ruling the court will still
conduct a hearing if any party appears. By submitting on the tentative you
have, in essence, waived your right to be present at the hearing, and you
should be aware that the court may not adopt the tentative, and may issue an
order which modifies the tentative ruling in whole or in part.
 