 Case Number:  24STCV14500    Hearing Date:   November 27, 2024    Dept:  47 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Theresa M. Traber, Department 47
 
 
HEARING DATE:     November 27, 2024               TRIAL DATE: NOT
SET
                                                           
CASE:                         Michael Tootle v. Wedgewood Homes
Realty, LLC, et al.
 
CASE NO.:                 24STCV14500            
 
DEMURRER
TO FIRST AMENDED COMPLAINT AND MOTION TO STRIKE PORTIONS OF FIRST AMENDED
COMPLAINT

 
MOVING PARTY:               Defendants Wedgewood Homes Realty, LLC, Wedgewood,
LLC, and Neighborhood Stabilization, LLC
 
RESPONDING PARTY(S): Plaintiff Michael
Tootle
 
CASE
HISTORY:
·        
06/11/24: Complaint filed.
·        
06/11/24: First Amended Complaint filed. 
 
STATEMENT
OF MATERIAL FACTS AND/OR PROCEEDINGS:
            
            This is an action for employment discrimination and wrongful termination.
Plaintiff alleges that he was harassed based on his race.
 
Defendants demur to the First
Amended Complaint and move to strike portions of the Complaint.
            
TENTATIVE RULING:
 
Defendants’ Demurrer to the First
Amended Complaint is OVERRULED.
 
Defendants’ Motion to Strike is
DENIED. 
 
DISCUSSION:
 
Demurrer to First Amended Complaint
 
            Defendants
demur to the First Amended Complaint in its entirety. 
 
Legal Standard
 
A demurrer tests whether the
complaint states a cause of action. (Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147
Cal.App.4th 740, 747.) When considering demurrers, courts read the allegations
liberally and in context. (Taylor v. City of Los Angeles Dept. of Water and
Power (2006) 144 Cal.App.4th 1216, 1228.) In a demurrer proceeding, the
defects must be apparent on the face of the pleading or via proper judicial
notice. (Donabedian v. Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968,
994.) “A demurrer tests the pleadings alone and not the evidence or other
extrinsic matters. Therefore, it lies only where the defects appear on the face
of the pleading or are judicially noticed.” (SKF Farms v. Superior Court
(1984) 153 Cal.App.3d 902, 905.) “The only issue involved in a demurrer hearing
is whether the complaint, as it stands, unconnected with extraneous matters,
states a cause of action.” (Hahn, supra, 147 Cal.App.4th at p. 747.) The
ultimate facts alleged in the complaint must be deemed true, as well as all
facts that may be implied or inferred from those expressly alleged. (Marshall
v. Gibson, Dunn & Crutcher (1995) 37 Cal.App.4th 1397, 1403; see also Shields
v. County of San Diego (1984) 155 Cal.App.3d 103, 133 [stating, “[o]n
demurrer, pleadings are read liberally and allegations contained therein are
assumed to be true”].) “This rule of liberal construction means that the
reviewing court draws inferences favorable to the plaintiff, not the
defendant.” (Perez v. Golden Empire Transit Dist. (2012) 209 Cal.App.4th
1228, 1238.) 
 
Meet and Confer
 
Before filing a demurrer, the
demurring party shall meet and confer in person or by telephone with the party
who has filed the pleading subject to the demurrer and file a declaration
detailing their meet-and-confer efforts.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.41(a).)
However, an insufficient meet and confer process is not grounds
to overrule or sustain a demurrer.  (Code Civ. Proc., §
430.41(a)(4).)
 
            The Declaration
of Dean A. Rocco in support of the Demurrer states that counsel for the parties
spoke telephonically regarding the issues raised on this demurrer but were not
able to resolve this dispute. (Declaration of Dean A. Rocco ISO Dem. ¶ 2.) The
Court therefore finds that Defendants have satisfied their statutory meet-and-confer
obligations. 
 
Analysis
 
            Defendants demur
to the First Amended Complaint in its entirety on the grounds that the claims
asserted here were disposed of by a Nevada ruling ordering the matter to
arbitration. 
 
Defendants contend that the conduct
of Plaintiff’s counsel in filing this action was objectively unreasonable in
light of the history of the Nevada Action. Plaintiff filed a class action
complaint in the Eighth Judicial District Court of Nevada on July 5, 2023,
alleging that he was discriminated against and ultimately terminated on the
basis of his race while employed as a house flipper for Defendants. (RJN Exh.
1.) Plaintiff asserted claims for racial discrimination, hostile work
environment harassment, retaliation, wrongful termination, and intentional and
negligent infliction of emotional distress. (Id.) Defendants moved to
compel arbitration on the basis that Plaintiff had agreed to arbitrate claims
arising out his employment and agreed to delegate threshold questions of
arbitrability to the arbitrator. (RJN Exh. 2.) The Nevada District Court
granted the motion on October 3, 2023, finding that the parties had entered
into an arbitration agreement governed by the Federal Arbitration Act, that the
threshold questions of enforceability were delegated to the arbitrator, and
Plaintiff had failed to demonstrate unconscionability. (RJN Exh. 5.) The Nevada
District Court therefore ordered the matter to arbitration and dismissed the
Nevada Action without prejudice. (Id.) 
 
            Defendants
thus assert that the entire First Amended Complaint is subject to demurrer for
(1) lack of subject matter jurisdiction; (2) another action pending; and (3)
failure to state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action under the
doctrines of res judicata, collateral estoppel, and comity. None of these
arguments are persuasive. First, Defendants cite no authority standing for the
position that a prior proceeding, even in a different state, robs the Court of
jurisdiction, and, indeed, their papers largely fail to address this point.
Second, for a demurrer to lie for another action pending under Code of
Civil Procedure section 430.10(c), there must in fact be another action which
is pending. By Defendants’ admission, the Nevada action is not pending—it
has resolved. Third, with respect to res judicata, collateral estoppel,
and comity, Defendants do not directly address the elements for application of
those doctrines. More importantly, as the Court stated in ruling on Defendants’
Motion for Sanctions, Code of Civil Procedure section 1281.4 expressly states
that, when a controversy has been ordered to arbitration by “a court of
competent jurisdiction, whether in this State or not,” the proper remedy
under California law is a stay of the proceeding. (Code Civ. Proc. § 1281.4.)
California law does not provide for dismissal of matters ordered to
arbitration. (See Id.) Thus, even accepting Defendants’ arguments as to
the preclusive effect of the Nevada ruling, the proper remedy would be, on a
motion for such relief, to stay this action pending resolution of the
arbitration. 
 
            For these
reasons, the Court does not find that the First Amended Complaint is subject to
demurrer.
 
Conclusion
 
            Accordingly,
Defendants’ Demurrer to the First Amended Complaint is OVERRULED. 
 
Motion to Strike Portions of First Amended Complaint
 
            Defendants
move to strike portions of the First Amended Complaint.
 
Legal Standard
 
The court may, upon a motion, or at
any time in its discretion, and upon terms it deems proper, strike any
irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted in any pleading. Code Civ.
Proc., § 436(a). The court may also strike all or any part of any pleading not
drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of this state, a court rule, or an
order of the court. Id., § 436(b). The grounds for a motion to strike
are that the pleading has irrelevant, false or improper matter, or has not been
drawn or filed in conformity with laws. Id.§ 436. The grounds for moving to
strike must appear on the face of the pleading or by way of judicial notice. Id.§
437. “When the defect which justifies striking a complaint is capable of cure,
the court should allow leave to amend.” Vaccaro v. Kaiman (1998)
63 Cal.App.4th 761, 768. A motion to
strike can be used where the complaint or other pleading has not been drawn or
filed in conformity with applicable rules or court orders.  Code Civ.
Proc., § 436(b). This provision is for "the striking of a pleading due to
improprieties in its form or in the procedures pursuant to which it
was filed."  Ferraro v. Camarlinghi (2008) 161
Cal.App.4th 509, 528 (emphasis in original).
 
Meet and Confer
 
 Before filing a motion to strike, the moving
party shall meet and confer in person or by telephone with the party who has
filed the pleading subject to the motion to strike and file a declaration
detailing their meet-and-confer efforts. 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 435.5(a).) However, an insufficient meet-and-confer process
is not grounds to grant or deny a motion to strike.  (Code Civ. Proc., §
435.5(a)(4).)
 
The Declaration of Dean A. Rocco in
support of the Motion states that counsel for the parties spoke telephonically
regarding the issues raised on this demurrer but were not able to resolve this
dispute. (Declaration of Dean A. Rocco ISO Mot. ¶ 2.) The Court therefore finds
that Defendants have satisfied their statutory meet-and-confer obligations. 
 
Challenge to Entire Complaint for Sufficiency
 
            Defendants
first move to strike the entire First Amended Complaint as improper for the
same reasons asserted in the Demurrer. For the reasons addressed supra,
the Court is not persuaded. The Court therefore declines to strike the entire
First Amended Complaint on this basis.
 
Punitive Damages
 
            Defendants
also move to strike Plaintiff’s request for punitive damages on the grounds
that the First Amended Complaint does not plead facts supporting a claim for
punitive damages. 
Generally, punitive damages
may be awarded only when the trier of fact finds, by clear and convincing
evidence, that the defendant acted with malice, fraud, or oppression. (Civ.
Code, § 3294, subd. (a).) As nonintentional torts support punitive damages when
the defendant's conduct “involves conscious disregard of the rights or safety
of others,” our focus is on malice and oppression. (Gawara v. United States
Brass Corp. (1998) 63 Cal.App.4th 1341, 1361 [74 Cal. Rptr. 2d 663].) As
defined in the punitive damages statute, “[m]alice” encompasses “despicable
conduct which is carried on by the defendant with a willful and conscious
disregard of the rights and safety of others,” and “[o]ppression” means
“despicable conduct that subjects a person to cruel and unjust hardship in
conscious disregard of that person's rights.” (Civ. Code, § 3294, subd. (c)(1),
(2).) The term “‘despicable,’” though not defined in the statute, is applicable
to “circumstances that are ‘base,’ ‘vile,’ or ‘contemptible.’ ” (College
Hospital Inc. v. Superior Court (1994) 8 Cal.4th 704, 725 [34 Cal. Rptr. 2d
898, 882 P.2d 894], quoting 4 Oxford English Dict. (2d ed. 1989) p. 529.) 
 
Under the statute, “malice
does not require actual intent to harm. [Citation.] Conscious disregard for
the safety of another may be sufficient where the defendant is aware of the
probable dangerous consequences of his or her conduct and he or she willfully
fails to avoid such consequences. [Citation.] Malice may be proved either
expressly through direct evidence or by implication through indirect evidence
from which the jury draws inferences. [Citation.]” (Angie M. v. Superior
Court (1995) 37 Cal.App.4th 1217, 1228 [44 Cal. Rptr. 2d 197].)
 
(Pfeifer v. John Crane, Inc., (2013) 220
Cal.App.4th 1270, 1299 (bold emphasis added).)
 
Civil Code § 3294(a)
provides:
 
In an action for the breach
of an obligation not arising from contract, where it is proven by clear and
convincing evidence that the defendant has been guilty of oppression, fraud, or
malice, the plaintiff, in addition to the actual damages, may recover damages
for the sake of example and by way of punishing the defendant.”
 
Subdivision (b) defines liability for an employer
for the malicious, fraudulent, or oppressive conduct of its employees:
 
An employer shall not be
liable for damages pursuant to subdivision (a), based upon acts of an employee
of the employer, unless the employer had advance knowledge of the unfitness of
the employee and employed him or her with a conscious disregard of the rights
or safety of others or authorized or ratified the wrongful conduct for which
the damages are awarded or was personally guilty of oppression, fraud, or
malice. With respect to a corporate employer, the advance knowledge and
conscious disregard, authorization, ratification or act of oppression, fraud,
or malice must be on the part of an officer, director, or managing agent of the
corporation.
 
Civil Code § 3294(c) defines malice, oppression,
and fraud:
 
(1) ‘Malice’ means conduct
which is intended by the defendant to cause injury to the plaintiff or despicable
conduct which is carried on by the defendant with a willful and
conscious disregard of the rights or safety of others.
 
(2) ‘Oppression’ means despicable
conduct that subjects a person to cruel and unjust hardship in conscious
disregard of that person's rights.
 
(3) ‘Fraud’ means an
intentional misrepresentation, deceit, or concealment of a material fact known
to the defendant with the intention on the part of the defendant of thereby
depriving a person of property or legal rights or otherwise causing injury.
 
(Bold emphasis added.)
 
To withstand a motion to
strike punitive damages allegations, the complaint must set forth facts
supporting a claim for punitive damages:
 
The mere allegation an
intentional tort was committed is not sufficient to warrant an award of
punitive damages. (Citation omitted.) Not only must there be circumstances of
oppression, fraud or malice, but facts must be alleged in the pleading to
support such a claim.
 
(Grieves v. Superior Court (Fox) (1984) 157
Cal.App.3d 159, 166 (emphasis added).)
 
            Defendants
argue that the First Amended Complaint does not allege a sufficient basis for
punitive damages. The Court disagrees. The First Amended Complaint plainly
alleges that Plaintiff was terminated in retaliation for making internal
complaints and filing an EEOC complaint. (FAC ¶¶ 24, 28, 30, 31.) Plaintiff
also expressly asserts a cause of action for retaliation, charging Defendants
with malice. (FAC ¶¶ 65-71.) Conclusory allegations of malice are sufficient to
support punitive damages when retaliation is alleged. (Perkins v. Superior
Court (1981) 117 Cal.App.3d 1, 6-7.) The Court therefore does not find the
First Amended Complaint deficient in this respect. 
 
Conclusion
 
            Accordingly,
Defendants’ Motion to Strike is DENIED. 
CONCLUSION:

 
Accordingly, Defendants’ Demurrer
to the First Amended Complaint is OVERRULED.
 
Defendants’ Motion to Strike is
DENIED. 
 
            Moving
Parties to give notice.
 
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
Dated:  November 27,
2024                            ___________________________________
                                                                                    Theresa
M. Traber
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court
 

            Any party may submit on the
tentative ruling by contacting the courtroom via email at Smcdept47@lacourt.org by no later than 4:00 p.m. the day
before the hearing. All interested parties must be copied on the email. It
should be noted that if you submit on a tentative ruling the court will still
conduct a hearing if any party appears. By submitting on the tentative you
have, in essence, waived your right to be present at the hearing, and you
should be aware that the court may not adopt the tentative, and may issue an
order which modifies the tentative ruling in whole or in part.
 