 Case Number:  BC648395    Hearing Date:   November 27, 2024    Dept:  47 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Theresa M. Traber, Department 47
 
 
HEARING DATE:     November 27, 2024               TRIAL DATE: NOT
SET
                                                           
CASE:                         State of California v. Bruce E. Fishman,
M.D. 
 
CASE NO.:                 BC648395            
 
(1)  
MOTION
FOR SUMMARY ADJUDICATION
(2)  
MOTION
FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT OR, IN THE ALTERNATIVE, SUMMARY ADJUDICATION

 
MOVING PARTY:               (1) Plaintiffs State of California, the Counties of Los Angeles,
Kern, San Bernardino, Ventura, Santa Barbara, the Cities of Los Angeles and
Bakersfield, the School Districts of Los Angeles, McFarland, Visalia and Kern,
the Health Care District of Tehachapi, ex rel. Med-Legal Associates, Inc. and
CLCI, Inc; (2) Defendants Bruce E. Fishman, M.D., Bruce E. Fishman, M.D., FISC,
Inc. and Family Urgent Care & Industrial Medical Clinic, Inc
 
RESPONDING PARTY(S): (1) Defendants Bruce
E. Fishman, M.D., Bruce E. Fishman, M.D., FISC, Inc. and Family Urgent Care
& Industrial Medical Clinic, Inc; (2) Plaintiffs State of California, the
Counties of Los Angeles, Kern, San Bernardino, Ventura, Santa Barbara, the
Cities of Los Angeles and Bakersfield, the School Districts of Los Angeles,
McFarland, Visalia and Kern, the Health Care District of Tehachapi, ex rel.
Med-Legal Associates, Inc. and CLCI, Inc
 
CASE
HISTORY:
·        
01/27/17: Complaint filed under seal.
·        
11/06/17: Order lifting seal entered.
·        
12/22/17: First Amended Complaint filed under
seal. (Not on eCourt, but attached as exhibit to a filing.) 
·        
02/17/21: Judgment on the Pleadings
·        
02/22/21: Appeal filed by School Districts of
Los Angeles, McFarland, et al. and GLC Operations, Inc., et al.
·        
03/16/23: Remittitur filed, judgment reversed. 
STATEM/ENT
OF MATERIAL FACTS AND/OR PROCEEDINGS:
            
            This is a qui tam action alleging that Defendant Bruce E. Fishman lied
on his application (concealing a felony conviction) to serve as a qualified
medical evaluator (“QME”) in connection with the examination of injured workers
for purposes of their eligibility for workers’ compensation benefits.
Plaintiffs allege that Defendants billed Plaintiffs for medical evaluation
services Defendant Fishman unlawfully performed under the pretense of being a
validly appointed QME and collected public funds for these services. 
 
            Plaintiffs,
through the relators, move for summary adjudication of the first cause of
action for violation of the California Insurance Frauds Prevention Act.
Defendants move for summary judgment, or, in the alternative, summary
adjudication of all remaining causes of action. 
 
TENTATIVE RULING:
 
Plaintiffs’ Motion for Summary
Adjudication is DENIED.
 
Defendants’ Motion for Summary
Judgment, or, in the alternative, Summary Adjudication is DENIED. 
 
DISCUSSION:
 
Plaintiffs’ Motion for Summary Adjudication
 
            Plaintiffs,
through the relators, move for summary adjudication of the first cause of action
for violation of the California Insurance Frauds Prevention Act.
 
Legal Standard
 
The function of a motion for
summary judgment or adjudication is to allow a determination as to whether an
opposing party can show evidentiary support for a pleading or claim and, if
not, to enable an order of summary dismissal without the need for trial. (Aguilar
v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 843.) Code of Civil
Procedure Section 437c(c) “requires the trial judge to grant summary judgment
if all the evidence submitted, and ‘all inferences reasonably deducible from
the evidence’ and uncontradicted by other inferences or evidence, show that
there is no triable issue as to any material fact and that the moving party is
entitled to judgment as a matter of law.” 
(Adler v. Manor Healthcare Corp. (1992) 7 Cal.App.4th 1110,
1119.)  “The function of the pleadings in
a motion for summary judgment is to delimit the scope of the issues; the
function of the affidavits or declarations is to disclose whether there is any
triable issue of fact within the issues delimited by the pleadings.” (Juge
v. County of Sacramento (1993) 12 Cal.App.4th 59, 67, citing FPI
Development, Inc. v. Nakashima (1991) 231 Cal. App. 3d 367, 381-82.)
 
As to each claim as framed by the
complaint, a plaintiff moving for summary judgment satisfies the initial burden
to show that there is no defense to a claim by proving each element of the
cause of action entitling the party to judgment. (Code Civ Proc. § 437c(p)(1).)
Courts “liberally construe the evidence in support of the party opposing
summary judgment and resolve doubts concerning the evidence in favor of that
party.” (Dore v. Arnold Worldwide, Inc. (2006) 39 Cal.4th 384, 389.) The
lack of opposition is not grounds to grant a motion for summary judgment if a
defendant cannot meet their initial burden of proof. (See Thatcher v. Lucy
Stores, Inc. (2000) 79 Cal.App.4th 1081, 1087.)
 
            Once the
plaintiff has met that burden, the burden shifts to the defendant to show that
a triable issue of one or more material facts exists as to that cause of action
or a defense thereto. (Code Civ. Proc. § 437c(p)(1).) To establish a triable
issue of material fact, the party opposing the motion must produce substantial
responsive evidence. (Sangster v. Paetkau (1998) 68 Cal.App.4th 151,
166.)
 
Plaintiffs’ Request for Judicial Notice
 
            Plaintiffs
request that the Court take judicial notice of (1) a July 15, 1983 Judgment and
Probation Commitment Order in Case No. 83-60055-01 of the United States
District Court for the Eastern District of Michigan; (2) an Indictment in United
States of America v. Bruce Fishman, M.D., et al, Case No. 83-CR-60055 in
the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Michigan filed on
January 28, 1983; (3) a Complaint by the State of Michigan Department of
Licensing and Regulation, Michigan Board of Medicine In the Matter of Bruce
E. Fishman, M.D.; (4) the Consent Order and Stipulation in the Board of
medicine matter; a series of reappointment applications as a Qualified Medical
Evaluator for Bruce E. Fishman, M.D., dated (5) 2007; (6) 2009; (7) 2011; and
(8) 2013; (9) an Order Granting Petition for Writ of Mandate issued August 23,
2021 in Fishman v. Department of Industrial Relations, LASC Case No.
19STCP00911; and (10) the First Amended Complaint in this action.
 
            Plaintiffs’
requests Nos. 1 through 4 and 9 through 10 are GRANTED pursuant to Evidence
Code section 452(d). In so doing, the Court takes judicial notice only of the
existence of these documents and not the factual truth of any averments
contained within. 
 
The remainder of Plaintiffs’
requests are DENIED as Plaintiffs have not demonstrated that these documents
are official acts within the scope of Evidence Code section 452(c). This ruling
is without prejudice to Plaintiffs’ reliance upon these materials in the same
manner as any other admissible evidence. 
 
Undisputed Factual History
 
            Given the extraordinarily
contentious nature of this litigation, the Court finds it necessary to set
forth the underlying facts and the complex procedural history of this action.
 
            On January
26, 1983, Defendant Bruce Fishman, M.D., was criminally charged in the United
States District Court for the Eastern District of Michigan with conspiracy to distribute
controlled substances in violation of 21 U.S. Code section 846. (Plaintiffs’
RJN Exh. 2.) Defendant Fishman pled guilty to the charge of conspiracy to distribute
on July 14, 1983. (RJN Exh. 1.) Defendant Fishman’s license to practice
medicine was subsequently revoked in the State of Michigan and the State of
California. (See Remittitur, filed March 16, 2023 at p. 3.) In or about August
1989, Defendant Fishman successfully applied for probationary reinstatement of
his California medical license. (Id.) Thereafter, in 1993, Defendant
Fishman sought and obtained early termination of the probation, thus
reinstating his certificate to practice law without restriction. (Id.
pp. 3-4.)  ¶ 17.) In 2003, Defendant
Fishman applied for and received an appointment by the California Division of
Workers’ Compensation to serve as Qualified Medical Examiner. (See FAC ¶ 20.) Defendant
Fishman applied and obtained reappointment every two years between 2005 and
2013, inclusive, before allowing his appointment to lapse in 2014. (See FAC ¶¶
20-21.) During that time, Defendant Fishman and his corporation
allegedly served as QME, prepared relevant materials and reports, and collected
bills for that effort. (See FAC ¶¶ 20-22.) 
 
Procedural History
 
            The
procedural history of this qui tam action is intertwined with several other
proceedings, and the Court finds it appropriate to provide some explanation of
this history.  
 
1.     
Arbitration Between Defendants and Relator
Med-Legal Associates, Inc.
 
Med-Legal Associates, Inc., a
relator in this action, brought a petition for arbitration against Defendant
Fishman, asserting, in essence, that Defendant Fishman failed to disclose his
criminal conviction to Med-Legal. (Remittitur p. 5.) Defendant presented crossclaims
against Med-Legal. In February 2017, the arbitrator issued an award in favor of
Defendant Fishman, which was confirmed by the trial court and upheld on appeal.
(Id.) 
 
2.     
The Instant Qui Tam Action
 
In January 2017, Med-Legal, GLC
Operations, and the principal of both entities, Patrick Nazemi, filed the
instant qui tam action against Defendants, alleging that Defendant lied on his
QME application by concealing his 1983 conviction, thereby violating (1) the
Insurance Frauds Prevention Act and (2) the False Claims Act. (See generally
Complaint.) In December 2017, the First Amended Complaint was filed, asserting
the same claims but excluding GLC Operations and Nazemi as relators, and adding
GLCI as a new, separate relator. (See FAC.) On June 21, 2018, the Court
overruled Defendants’ Demurrer as to the first cause of action but sustained
the Demurrer without leave to amend as to the second cause of action, finding
that the allegations in this action fell within the workers’ compensation
exception to the False Claims Act. (June 21, 2018 Final Ruling.) 
 
On July 23, 2020, the Court granted
Defendants’ motion for judgment on the pleadings, finding that the first cause
of action was barred by the 2017 arbitration award under the doctrine of
collateral estoppel, and, separately, that the first cause of action was barred
by the statute of limitations. (July 23, 2020 Minute Order.) Plaintiffs
appealed, and the Court of Appeal reversed on March 16, 2023, holding (1) neither
the arbitration nor the California Medical Board’s findings had preclusive
effect on this action because neither concerned identical issues, and because
there was no evidence that the relators were all in privity with the sole party
to the arbitration; and (2) the statute of limitations did not bar this action
because some subset of the QME claims submitted by Defendants fell within the
limitations period. (Remittitur pp. 16-18.) 
 
3.     
Suspension Action & Writ Proceeding
 
On April 19, 2018, the Division of
Workers Compensation notified Defendants of its intent to suspend Defendant
Fishman. (Plaintiffs’ RJN Exh. 9 p.4.) On March 15, 2019, the DWC suspended
Defendant Fishman from participating in the workers’ compensation system,
notwithstanding the contrary recommendation by a Hearing Officer. (Id.)
Defendant Fishman thereafter petitioned for writ of mandate. (Id.) The
Court rejected Defendant’s argument that Labor Code section 139.21, which
mandates suspension of a physician from participation in the workers’
compensation system if they have been convicted of a crime that is
“substantially related to the qualifications, functions, or duties of a
provider of services” (subd. (a)(1)(A)(iv)), violated Defendant’s due process
rights, concluding that suspension from participation in the workers’
compensation system was not a constitutionally protected right. (RJN Exh. 9
pp.7-8.) The Court also declined to read into the statute a requirement for
proof of unfitness to practice medicine before ordering a suspension. (Id.)
The Court nevertheless found that the temporal aspect of Defendant Fishman’s
conviction, including its remoteness in time, was relevant to whether the crime
was “substantially related to the qualifications, functions, or duties of a
provider of services,” and, therefore, the DWC’s refusal to consider that
aspect constituted a prejudicial abuse of discretion. (RJN Exh. 9 pp. 10-12.)
Consequently, the Court granted the petition for writ of mandate and set aside
the decision suspending Defendants from participating in the workers’
compensation system. (RJN Exh. 9 p. 16.) 
 
Analysis
 
            Plaintiffs
seek summary adjudication of the first cause of action for violation of the
Insurance Frauds Prevention Act on the grounds that the undisputed facts
purportedly establish that Defendant Brue E. Fishman, M.D. committed fraud
within the definition of the Act. 
 
            In their
zeal to pursue the argument that Defendant Fishman committed a felony related
to his medical practice which should have disqualified him from serving as a
Qualified Medical Examiner under the Workers’ Compensation program, Plaintiffs neglect
to set forth the statutory elements for a fraud cause of action under the
Insurance Frauds Prevention Act. As the Act is the basis for Defendant
Fishman’s alleged liability, any analysis of the merits of the case must begin
with the operative statutes. 
 
            As relevant
to this motion, Plaintiffs’ first cause of action in the First Amended
Complaint asserts a violation of Penal Code section 550 which gives rise to
civil liability under the Insurance Frauds Prevention Act, codified at Insurance
Code section 1871.7. (RJN Exh. 10 [FAC] ¶ 43.) Subdivision (b) of Insurance
Code section 1871.7 establishes civil penalties for any person who violates, inter
alia, Penal Code section 550. (Ins. Code § 1871.7(b).) Subdivision (e)
permits any interested party to bring a civil action for violation of section
1871.7, including subdivision (b), on their own behalf and on behalf of the
State of California. (Id. subd. (e).) Penal Code section 550, on which
Defendant’s substantive liability is premised, states, in relevant part:
 
(a) It is
unlawful to do any of the following, or to aid, abet, solicit, or conspire with
any person to do any of the following:
 
(1) Knowingly
present or cause to be presented any false or fraudulent claim for the payment
of a loss or injury, including payment of a loss or injury under a contract of
insurance.
 
[. . .]
 
(5) Knowingly
prepare, make, or subscribe any writing, with the intent to present or use
it, or to allow it to be presented, in support of any false or fraudulent
claim.
 
(6) Knowingly
make or cause to be made any false or fraudulent claim for payment of a
health care benefit.
 
[. . .]
 
(10) For
purposes of paragraphs (6) to (9), inclusive, a claim or a claim for payment of
a health care benefit also means a claim or claim for payment submitted by or
on the behalf of a provider of any workers’ compensation health benefits under
the Labor Code.
 
(b) It is
unlawful to do, or to knowingly assist or conspire with any person to
do, any of the following:
 
(1) Present or
cause to be presented any written or oral statement as part of, or in support
of or opposition to, a claim for payment or other benefit pursuant to an
insurance policy, knowing that the statement contains any false or
misleading information concerning any material fact.
 
(2) Prepare or
make any written or oral statement that is intended to be presented to any
insurer or any insurance claimant in connection with, or in support of or
opposition to, any claim or payment or other benefit pursuant to an insurance
policy, knowing that the statement contains any false or misleading
information concerning any material fact.
 
(Pen. Code § 550 (a)(1), (5)-(6), (10); (b)(1)-(2) [emphasis
added].)
 
            For
Plaintiffs and Defendants, the central issue in this case is whether Defendant
Fishman’s 1983 conviction for conspiracy to distribute controlled substances constituted
a conviction for a felony related to Defendant’s medical practice which would
disqualify Defendant Fishman from serving as a QME under Labor Code section
139.2(b) and section 10(c) of title 8 of the Code of Regulations. (Labor Code §
139.2(b) [setting minimum statutory qualifications and delegating rulemaking
power to administrator]; Cal. Code Regs. Tit. 8 § 10(c) [“No physician who has
been convicted of a felony or misdemeanor related to his or her practice shall
be appointed or reappointed as a QME.”].) Plaintiffs argue vociferously in the
affirmative, relying on the broad language in the enacting statute and the
regulations, and on the factual claims in the indictment involving the operation
of a sham clinic for the purpose of issuing and filling prescriptions for
controlled substances. (Separate Statement of Undisputed Material Fact Nos.
4-28.)  Defendants argue, between insults
and opprobrium toward the relators and their counsel, with equal vehemence for
the opposite position, relying principally on the text of the indictment alleging
that Defendant Fishman conspired to distribute controlled substances ‘by
issuing and filling prescriptions for said drug outside the usual course of
medical practice and for no legitimate medical purpose.” (See RJN Exh. 2.
p.2.) Plaintiffs omit this language in their recitation of the charges. As an
officer of the Court, Plaintiff’s counsel has an ethical duty of candor not to
knowingly misstate facts to this tribunal. (Cal. Rules of Prof. Conduct Rule
3.3(a).) This key language should have been disclosed in Plaintiffs’ moving
papers, and Plaintiffs’ failure to do so does not reflect well on Plaintiffs’
counsel. 
 
That said, the Court need not
resolve the nature of Defendant Fishman’s conviction at this juncture because no
resolution would be sufficient to carry Plaintiffs’ burden on summary
adjudication. If the conviction is not related to Defendant Fishman’s practice,
then, naturally, Defendant Fishman’s representations in (a) applying and
reapplying for QME status and (b) submitting claims on which he represented
that he was a QME were true and per se not fraudulent with respect to
his QME status. However, assuming arguendo that the conviction was
related to his practice, Plaintiffs would still be required by the plain text
of Penal Code section 550 to establish that Defendant Fishman knew that the
conviction was related to his practice and therefore disqualified him from
serving as a QME. Plaintiffs offer no evidence in connection with this motion
which goes to Defendant Fishman’s mental state, and, for that reason, have
failed to carry their burden on summary adjudication. 
 
//
Conclusion
 
            Accordingly,
Plaintiffs’ Motion for Summary Adjudication is DENIED.
 
Motion for Summary Judgment or Summary Adjudication
 
Defendants move for summary
judgment or summary adjudication. 
 
In bringing a motion for summary
judgment or summary adjudication, the supporting papers must include “a
separate statement setting forth plainly and concisely all material facts that
the moving party contends are undisputed.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 437c(b)(1).) “The
requirement of a separate statement from the moving party and a responding
statement from the party opposing summary judgment serves two functions: to
give the parties notice of the material facts at issue in the motion and to
permit the trial court to focus on whether those facts are truly undisputed.” (Parkview
Villas Assn., Inc. v. State Farm Fire & Casualty Co. (2005) 133
Cal.App.4th 1197, 1210.) A Separate Statement must separately identify
not only each cause of action, claim for damages, issue of duty, or affirmative
defense that is the subject motion but “each supporting material fact claimed
to be without dispute with respect to the cause of action.” (Cal. Rule of Court
3.1350(d)(1)-(2)[emphasis added].) Subsection (h) of Rule 3.1350 sets forth the
format required for a Separate Statement, including the two-column format,
where the first column contains the movant’s stated material facts and
the evidence in support, while leaving the second column blank for the opposing
party’s response. (Rule 3.1350(h).) 
 
Defendants’ motion complies with
none of these requirements. The Separate Statement does not separately identify
each material fact claimed to be without dispute as to each issue on the motion
and instead incorporates other material facts by reference. The Separate
Statement also entirely fails to follow the two-column requirement set forth in
the Rules of Court. Rather, Defendants have elected to set forth “undisputed
facts” in one column and the “Source of Undisputed Fact” in the other, in
direct contravention of the Rules of Court. More gravely, rather than setting
forth facts and evidence in the manner contemplated by and exemplified in the
Rules of Court, Defendants have filled their Separate Statement with inappropriate
legal arguments and irrelevant and uncivil attacks on the opposing party.  In no respect is this a proper Separate
Statement of Undisputed Material Fact.  
 
The failure to provide a separate
statement is, in the Court’s discretion, grounds for denial of the motion.
(Code Civ. Proc. § 437c(b)(1).) Moreover, appellate precedent has consistently
encouraged trial courts to require strict compliance with the requirements for
separate statements. (United Community Church v. Garcin (1991) 231
Cal.App.3d 327, 335 [superseded by statute on other grounds]; North Coast
Business Park v. Nielsen Construction Co. (1993) 17 Cal.App.4th 22, 30-32.)
As the Court of Appeal for the Fourth District bluntly stated this past
December, “[t]rial courts should not hesitate to deny summary judgment motions
when the moving party fails to draft a compliant separate statement.” (Beltran
v. Hard Rock Hotel Licensing, Inc. (2023) 97 Cal.App.5th 865, 876.) This
Court will heed that instruction. 
 
Conclusion
 
            Accordingly,
Defendants’ Motion for Summary Judgment, or, in the alternative, Summary
Adjudication is DENIED. 
 
CONCLUSION:

 
            Accordingly, Plaintiffs’
Motion for Summary Adjudication is DENIED.
 
Defendants’ Motion for Summary
Judgment, or, in the alternative, Summary Adjudication is DENIED. 
 
            Moving
Parties to give notice.
 
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
Dated: November 26, 2024                             ___________________________________
                                                                                    Theresa
M. Traber
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court
 

            Any party may submit on the
tentative ruling by contacting the courtroom via email at Smcdept47@lacourt.org by no later than 4:00 p.m. the day
before the hearing. All interested parties must be copied on the email. It
should be noted that if you submit on a tentative ruling the court will still
conduct a hearing if any party appears. By submitting on the tentative you
have, in essence, waived your right to be present at the hearing, and you
should be aware that the court may not adopt the tentative, and may issue an
order which modifies the tentative ruling in whole or in part.
 