  Case Number:  BC617479    Hearing Date:   March 8, 2024    Dept:  P  
 
 
 
 
 
 
SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES
NORTHEAST DISTRICT
 



ARUTYUN FITILCHYAN; GALINA
  ARZUMANOVA; HRACHYA GASPARYAN; and MARINE HOVHANNISYAN,
                                           
  Plaintiffs,
vs.
AKOP TOROSIAN a.k.a. JACK TOROSIAN; ROBERT TOROSIAN;
  and DOES 1 through 100, inclusive,
 
                                           
  Defendants.










 

AKOP TOROSIAN aka JACK TOROSIAN; ROBERT TOROSIAN;
  MARINA FERMANYAN; and ELDA MADATYAN;
 
                                          
  Plaintiffs,
vs. 
ARUTYUN FITILCHYAN; HRACHYA GASPARYAN; ARMEN
  TASHJIAN; ARMEN "ARMENAK" JERMAKYAN; ASHOT MKHTTARYAN; and DOES 1
  through 100, inclusive,
                                           
  Defendants.
 


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
  )
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
  )
  )
  )
  )
  )
  )
  )
  )
  )
)
)
)


Case No.:  BC617479 (Related to
  Case No. BC616980)
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER GRANTING DEFENDANT MKHITARYAN’S MOTION FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT IN CASE NO.
  BC617479 
 
Date:   March
  8, 2024
Time:  8:30 a.m.
Dept.:  P



 
          
          I.        INTRODUCTION
          These related cases concern events
that transpired on April 16, 2014. For ease of reference, case no. BC616980 is
referred to as the Fitilchyan Action and case no. BC617479 as the Torosian
Action.  
The Fitilchyan Action alleges that Arutyun
Fitilchyan (Fitilchyan) was contacted by Akop Torosian (Akop) to perform some
locksmith services. Fitilchyan alleges they subsequently got into a fight and
Akop’s brother, Robert Torosian (Robert), also joined in.
In
Case No. BC617479, it is alleged the meeting at the body shop was a “set up”
and that  Akop and Robert were ambushed.
This complaint further alleges that following the shooting, Fitilchyan,
Gasparyan, and others attempted to extort money from Akop and Robert.   
Before the Court is an unopposed motion for summary
judgment filed by Defendant Mkhitaryan in Case No. BC617479. Defendant Mkhitaryan
seeks summary judgment, or in the alternative summary adjudication, as to the
causes of action asserted by the Torosian brothers against him (Causes of
Action 2-8).  Mkhitaryan argues the
Requests for Admissions that were deemed admitted by the Torosians entitle him to
summary judgment. 
The motion was filed December 1, 2023. Opposition to
the motion was due February 23, 2024. 
Moving party filed a declaration from his attorney, Frederic J.
Greenblatt on March 4, 2024, indicating that he had not received any opposition.  No opposition has been filed as of the time
of posting this tentative. 
Because Defendant has met his burden to demonstrate
that no triable issue of material facts exist, the motion for summary judgment
is GRANTED.          
 
II.       LEGAL
STANDARD
          A. Law Governing Motions for Summary Judgment
          Summary judgment is appropriately granted where it is shown
that an action has no merit or that there is no defense to the action. (Code
Civ. Proc. §437c(a).) A motion for summary judgment shall be granted where all
the papers submitted show that there is no triable issue of material fact, and
that the moving party is entitled to judgment as a matter of law. CCP § 437c(c).)
          Summary adjudication may be granted where it completely
disposes of a cause of action, an affirmative defense, a claim of damages, or
an issue of duty. (CCP § 437c(f).)
          A defendant has met “his or her burden of showing that a
cause of action has no merit if the party has shown that one or more elements
of the cause of action, even if not separately pleaded, cannot be established,
or that there is a complete defense to the cause of action.” (Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 437c(p)(2).) “[T]he burden [then] shifts to the plaintiff . . . to show that
a triable issue of one or more material facts exists as to that cause of action
or a defense thereto.” (Id.) To establish a triable issue of material
fact, the party opposing the motion must produce substantial responsive
evidence. (Sangster v. Paetkau (1998)
68 Cal.App.4th 151, 166.)
          The
pleadings play a key role in a summary judgment motion. “The function of the
pleadings in a motion for summary judgment is to delimit the scope of the
issues; the function of the affidavits or declarations is to disclose whether
there is any triable issue of fact within the issues delimited by the
pleadings.”  (Juge v. County of Sacramento (1993) 12 Cal.App.4th 59, 67, citing FPI Development, Inc. v. Nakashima
(1991) 231 Cal. App. 3d 367, 381-382.) As the California Supreme Court has
observed, “The materiality of a disputed fact is measured by the pleadings,
which set the boundaries of the issues to be resolved at summary judgment.” (Hutton
v. Fidelity National Title Co. (2013) 213 Cal.App.4th 486, 493. [citations
omitted.])
Unopposed
declarations may be accepted as true. (CCP § 437c(e).) However, affidavits must
be liberally construed in favor of the opposition and strictly construed
against the moving party in determining the existence of a "triable
issue" of fact. (D'Amico v. Board of Medical Examiners (1974) 11
Cal.3d 1, 21.)
 
III.     ANALYSIS
          A. The Undisputed Facts
          Pursuant to the Separate Statement, Defendant Mkhitaryan contends
that he did not assault or batter Plaintiffs Akop or Robert. (UMF 1.) He did
not attempt to extort money from either Plaintiff. ( See, e.g., UMF 2.) He did
not commit fraud against either Plaintiff. (UMF 3.) He likewise did not
conspire to extort money from or blackmail Plaintiffs. (UMFs 48-51.) He did not
“lure” Plaintiffs to the auto garage where the shooting occurred; nor did he know
that any other Defendant had a firearm (UMFs 4, 5). He did not injure
Plaintiffs, nor act with any intent to harass, oppress or maliciously injure them.
(See, e.g., UMFs 6-9.) He is not liable to Plaintiffs for their alleged
injuries, and was not present at the time the alleged injuries took place. (See,
e.g., UMFs 10-12.)  Additionally, Mkhitaryan
contends that he did not misuse the court processes. (UMFs  27-33.)[1]
          B. Conspiracy to Commit Assault and Battery
“The
essential elements of a cause of action for assault are: (1) defendant
acted with intent to cause harmful or offensive contact, or threatened to touch
plaintiff in a harmful or offensive manner; (2) plaintiff reasonably believed
she was about to be touched in a harmful or offensive manner or it reasonably
appeared to plaintiff that defendant was about to carry out the threat;
(3) plaintiff did not consent to defendant's conduct;              (4) plaintiff was harmed; and (5)
defendant's conduct was a substantial factor in causing plaintiff's harm.” (So
v. Shin (2013) 212 Cal.App.4th 257,269, internal citations omitted.) “The
essential elements of a cause of action for battery are: (1) defendant
touched plaintiff, or caused plaintiff to be touched, with the intent to harm
or offend plaintiff; (2) plaintiff did not consent to the touching; (3)
plaintiff was harmed or offended by defendant's conduct; and (4) a reasonable
person in plaintiff's position would have been offended by the touching.” (Id.,
internal citations omitted.) 
A
conspiracy requires proof that the defendant agreed to a certain objective to
injure the plaintiff; a wrongful act took place pursuant to the agreement; and
damage resulted. (Berg & Berg Ent., LLC v. Sherwood Partners, Inc.
(2005) 131 Cal. App.4th 802, 823, internal citations omitted.)
Mkhitaryan
urges that none of the elements of conspiracy to commit assault and battery can
be met here. In support, Defendant attaches his Requests for Admission (RFA),
Set One, served on Plaintiffs. (Greenblatt Decl. Exhs 1 and 2.) Due to Plaintiffs’
failure to respond, the matters in the RFA’s were deemed admitted in a ruling by
this Court on February 16, 2023. (Greenblatt Decl. Exh. 4, 2/16/23 Order.)  A deemed admitted order establishes that a
nonresponding party has responded to the requests by admitting the truth of the
facts referenced therein.  (Wilcox v.
Birtwhistle, 21 Cal. 4th 973, 979 (1999).)  
          The RFAs that were deemed admitted establish that:
Mkhitaryan did not assault or batter Plaintiffs (RFA 1) or otherwise act with
intent to harm the Plaintiffs (RFA 17); that he did not lure Plaintiffs to the
auto garage (RFA 4) and did not know that any other Defendant had a weapon (RFA
5); and, ultimately, that he did not harm Plaintiffs (RFA 7). To the extent
that Plaintiffs allege that Mkhitaryan was conspiring with the other Defendants
to assault and batter Plaintiffs, the established facts that he did not know
that the other Defendants had any weapons, and that he did not lure them to the
auto garage defeats such a claim. 
          Accordingly, there is no triable issue of material fact as
to the Second Cause of Action for conspiracy to commit assault and battery.
          C. Negligence
A negligence cause of action requires: duty, breach
of duty, causation and damages. (Antiglio v. Corning, Inc. (1998)
Cal.4th 604,614.)
Mkhitaryan
urges that none of the elements of negligence can be met here. In support,
Defendant references the RFA’s that were deemed admitted.  Specifically, the RFA’s establish that
Mkhitaryan was not negligent at the time of Plaintiff’s injury (RFA 6); that he
was not responsible for any injury Plaintiffs suffered, nor did he cause any of
Plaintiff’s injuries. (RFAs 7, 28, 30) 
Without
evidence supporting the key elements of causation and breach of duty, the cause
of action for negligence cannot be established.
Accordingly,
there is no triable issue of material fact as to the Third Cause of Action.
D.
Loss of Consortium
This
cause of action was brought by Marina Fermanyan and Elda Madatyan.  As they have dismissed their claims against
all Defendants, the Court need not address this aspect of Mkhitarian’s motion.
E.
Abuse of Process
To
establish a claim for abuse of process, a plaintiff must plead two necessary
elements: “that the defendant (1) entertained an ulterior motive in using the process,
and (2) committed a willful act in a wrongful manner.” (Coleman v. Gulf Ins.
Group (1986) 41 Cal.3d 782, 792.)
Mkhitaryan
urges that none of the elements of an abuse of process can be met here. In
support, he again references his RFA’s that have been deemed admitted.  These RFA’s 
establish that Defendant Mkhitaryan did not abuse the court process through
any actions he allegedly took (RFAs 9-15); nor is he responsible for any of
Plaintiffs’ financial losses (RFA 16); nor did he intend to harass Plaintiffs
or otherwise act with an ulterior motive. (RFA 17.) Accordingly, the two
elements of an abuse of process claim cannot be established, and there is no
triable issue of material fact as to the Fifth Cause of Action.
F.
Extortion and Blackmail
Extortion
and blackmail are synonymous.  Extortion
involves: (1) a knowing wrongful threat, (2) the threat included a demand for
money, property or other goods. (Flatley v. Mauro (2006) 39 Cal.4th 299,
325.)
Defendant
urges that each element cannot be met here. In support, Defendant references
the RFA’s that were deemed admitted. 
Specifically, the RFAs deemed admitted establish that Mkhitaryan did not
extort Plaintiffs (RFA 2); nor attempt to blackmail them. (RFA’s 18,19.) Additionally,
any financial loss suffered by Plaintiffs was not caused by Mkhitaryan’s
actions (RFA 16); nor did he act with intent to oppress Plaintiffs. (RFA 17.) Consequently,
the elements of the cause of action as pleaded by the Plaintiffs for civil
extortion cannot be established, as the RFA’s that were deemed admitted are
treated as judicial admissions.
Accordingly,
there is no triable issue of material fact as to the Sixth Cause of Action.
G.
Conspiracy to Commit Extortion and Blackmail
Extortion
involves: (1) a knowing wrongful threat, (2) the threat included a demand for
money, property or other goods. (Flatley v. Mauro (2006) 39 Cal.4th 299,
325.) A conspiracy requires proof that the defendant agreed to a certain
objective to injure the plaintiff; that a wrongful act took place pursuant to
the agreement; and resulting damages. (Berg & Berg Ent., LLC v. Sherwood
Partners, Inc. (2005) 131 Cal. App.4th 802, 823, internal citations omitted.)
 Consequently, a conspiracy to commit extortion would require
two or more people agreeing and working together to extract money or other
property from another person.
Defendant
urges that each element of conspiracy to commit extortion and blackmail cannot
be met here. Specifically, he asserts that the RFA’s that have been deemed
admitted establish that Mkhitaryan did not conspire to commit extortion or blackmail
(RFAs 20, 21); nor did he cause any of the Torosian’s alleged financial losses.
(RFA 16.)
Accordingly,
there is no triable issue of material fact as to the Seventh Cause of Action.
H.
Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress
“The
elements of a prima facie case for the tort of intentional infliction of
emotional distress (IIED) are: (1) extreme and outrageous conduct by the defendant
with the intention of causing, or reckless disregard of the probability of
causing, emotional distress; (2) the plaintiff’s suffering severe or extreme
emotional distress; and (3) actual and proximate causation of the emotional
distress by the defendant’s outrageous conduct. Conduct that is considered outrageous
must be so extreme as to exceed all bounds of that usually tolerated in a
civilized community.” (Wilson v. Hynek (2012) 207 Cal.App.4th 999, 1009,
citation and ellipses omitted.) 
Defendant
urges that the elements of intentional infliction of emotional distress cannot
be met here. Specifically, the RFA’s deemed admitted establish that Mkhitaryan
did not do anything extreme and outrageous to Plaintiffs (RFAs 22, 24); that Plaintiffs
did not suffer severe emotional distress (RFAs 25-28); nor did Mkhitaryan cause
severe emotional distress to Plaintiffs (RFAs 23, 25). Additionally, nothing
Mkhitaryan did caused injury, medical distress or other damage to Plaintiffs.
(RFAs 7, 26-27.) As the essential elements of intentional infliction of
emotional distress cannot be established, there exist no triable issue of
material fact. 
Accordingly,
there is no triable issue of material fact as to the Eighth Cause of Action.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
IV.     CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
          For the foregoing reasons, Defendant Mkhitaryan’s motion
for summary judgment is granted. Mkhitaryan is ordered to lodge and serve proposed
Judgment within five days. 
          Counsel for Mkhitaryan is
ordered to give notice of this ruling to all parties in both cases.
 
 
          
Dated:                                                              _______________________________
                                                                              MARGARET L. OLDENDORF
                                                                       JUDGE
OF THE SUPERIOR COURT
 
 


