 Case Number:  23SMCV00517    Hearing Date:   February 20, 2024    Dept:  205    Superior Court of California County of Los Angeles – West District  Beverly Hills Courthouse / Department 205   NETWORK EXPERTS, INC.,   Plaintiff, v.  BEVERLY HILLS IT SERVICES, et al.,   Defendants.    Case No.:  23SMCV00517     Hearing Date:  February 20, 2024   [TENTATIVE] ORDER RE:   DEFENDANTS BEVERLY HILLS IT    SERVICES AND BEVERLY HILLS IT’S    MOTION FOR RECONSIDERATION     BACKGROUND  This is theft of trade secrets case.  Plaintiff Network Experts provides computer sales. consulting and IT services.  Defendant Mostafa Karbalei Ahmad Baboli (“Baboli”) was employed by Plaintiff to serve as an IT specialist/director.   Baboli later formed Beverly Hills IT Services and Beverly Hills Services (the “Entity Defendants” and together with Baboli, “Defendants”) which then contracted with Plaintiff to perform IT services.  Baboli informed Plaintiff that the Entity Defendants would contract with Plaintiff as an independent contractor, servicing Plaintiff’s clients, while also servicing the Entity Defendants’ own clients as well.   Plaintiff claims Defendants misappropriated its trade secrets to poach Plaintiff’s clients.  Plaintiff also claims Baboli borrowed $9,540 pursuant to a promissory note which he has failed to repay.   The operative complaint alleges claims for (1) misappropriation of trade secrets, (2) breach of promissory note, (3) breach of fiduciary duty, (4) breach of duty of loyalty, (5) unfair competition, (6) intentional interference with prospective economic relations, (7) negligent interference with prospective economic relations, (8) conversion and (9) trespass to chattel.     Plaintiff served Defendants by substitute service on February 8, 2023.  Service is deemed completed on the 10th day after mailing, which is February 19, 2023.  Defendants’ response to the Complaint was due by March 21, 2023.  Defendants failed to respond.  Accordingly, default was entered against the Entity Defendants on April 27, 2023 and against Baboli on May 2, 2023.   This hearing is on Entity Defendants’ motion for reconsideration of an order denying their motion to set aside default.  The Entity Defendants argue they were not properly served under Code Civ. Proc. §415.20(c) and Bus. & Prof. Code §17538.5(d).  The Entity Defendants claim this is a new fact, law or circumstance, warranting reconsideration.   LEGAL STANDARD Pursuant to¿Code of Civil Procedure Section 1008(a):¿  “When an application for an order has been made to a judge, or to a court, and refused in whole or in part, or granted, or granted conditionally, or on terms, any party affected by the order may, within 10 days after service upon the party of written notice of entry of the order and based upon new or different facts, circumstances, or law, make application to the same judge or court that made the order, to reconsider the matter and modify, amend, or revoke the prior order. The party making the application shall state by affidavit what application was made before, when and to what judge, what order or decisions were made, and what new or different facts, circumstances, or law are claimed to be shown.” (Code of Civ. Proc., §1008(a).)¿  A court acts in excess of jurisdiction when it grants a motion to reconsider that is not based upon “new or different facts, circumstances or law.”¿ (Gilberd v. AC Transit (1995) 32 Cal. App. 4th 1494, 1499.)  There is a strict requirement of diligence, meaning the moving party must present a satisfactory explanation for failing to provide the evidence, different facts, or law earlier.¿ (Garcia v. Hejmadi (1997) 58 Cal. App. 4th 674, 690.)¿ A motion for reconsideration is properly denied when it is based on evidence that could have been presented in connection with the original motion.¿ (Morris v. AGFA Corp. (2006) 144 Cal.App.4th 1452, 1460;¿Hennigan v. White (2011) 199 Cal.App.4th 395, 406.)  EVIDENTIARY OBJECTIONS The Court overrules Plaintiff’s Objection No. 1 to the Declaration of Mostafa K. Baboli, and overrules Plaintiff’s Objection Nos. 1-2, 5 and sustains Objection Nos. 3-4, 6-8 to the Declaration of Erik Ceja.   DISCUSSION The Entity Defendants argue that they were not served in accordance with Code Civ. Proc. §415.20(c) and Bus. & Prof. Code §17538.5(d).   Section 415.20(c) provides that “if the only address reasonably known for the person to be served is a private mailbox obtained through a commercial mail receiving agency [“CMRA”], service of process may be effected on the first delivery attempt by leaving a copy of the summons and complaint with the commercial mail receiving agency in the manner described in subdivision (d) of Section 17538.5 of the Business and Professions Code.”  Section 17538.5(d) provides that “[u]pon receipt of any process for any mailbox service customer the CMRA owner or operator shall …. within five days after receipt, send all documents by first class mail, to the last known home or personal address of the mail receiving service customer.”   The Entity Defendants argue the CMRA here failed to mail the documents to their last known home or personal address, within five days after receipt.  Instead, the process server mailed the documents.  The Entity Defendants rely on Kremerman v. White (2021) 71 Cal.App.5th 358 which held that plaintiff’s service was deficient where plaintiff had not established compliance with Section 17538.5(d).    The Court denies the Entity Defendants’ motion for reconsideration as it fails to present any new facts, law or circumstances warranting reconsideration.  As counsel concedes, the “new” argument he is making now was known to him at the time he was researching the reply (see e.g., Motion at 1:23-24), and he chose not to include it in his reply.  There is a strict requirement of diligence, meaning the moving party must present a satisfactory explanation for failing to provide the evidence, different facts, or law earlier.¿ (Garcia v. Hejmadi (1997) 58 Cal. App. 4th 674, 690.)¿ Counsel has provided no explanation as to why he failed to include this argument in his reply. In any event, the Entity Defendants have not presented any admissible evidence that the CMRA in fact failed to mail the summons and complaint within five days after receipt.  While Baboli claims he did not receive the summons and complaint from the CMRA, this does not foreclose the possibility that the documents were in fact mailed by the CMRA.   As the moving party, the Entity Defendants had the burden of showing the CMRA failed to make the mailing.  (Hopkins & Carley v. Gens (2011) 200 Cal.App.4th 1401, 1410 (“The party seeking relief, however, bears the burden of proof in establishing a right to relief for CCP reconsideration 473 motion."); Dill v. Berquist Construction Co. (1994) 24 Cal.App.4th 1426, 1440 [“[I]n motions for relief from default, the burden is on the moving party to show good cause for relief.”]; Huh v. Wang (2007) 158 Cal.App.4th 1406, 142 (“As the moving party, appellant had the burden of establishing entitlement to relief from the judgment.”).)  The Entity Defendants failed to carry their burden.   CONCLUSION For the foregoing reasons, the Court DENIES the Entity Defendants’ motion for reconsideration.   DATED:  February 20, 2024    ___________________________ Edward B. Moreton, Jr. Judge of the Superior Court 




HEARING DATE:  February 20, 2024 JUDGE/DEPT:  Moreton/Beverly Hills, 205 CASE NAME: Network Experts Inc. v. Beverly Hills IT Services, et al.  CASE NUMBER:  23SMCV00517  COMP. FILED:  February 3, 2023    PROCEEDINGS:  REQUEST FOR ENTRY OF DEFAULT JUDGMENT MOVING PARTY:  Network Experts, Inc.  RESPONDING PARTY: Beverly Hills IT Services and Beverly Hills IT  BACKGROUND This is theft of trade secrets case.  Plaintiff Network Experts provides computer sales, consulting and IT services.  Defendant Mostafa Karbalei Ahmad Baboli (“Baboli”) was employed by Plaintiff to serve as an IT specialist/director.    Baboli later formed Beverly Hills IT Services and Beverly Hills Services (the “Entity Defendants” and together with Baboli, “Defendants”) which then contracted with Plaintiff to perform IT services.  Baboli informed Plaintiff that the Entity Defendants would contract with Plaintiff as an independent contractor, servicing Plaintiff’s clients, while also servicing the Entity Defendants’ own clients as well.    Plaintiff claims Defendants misappropriated its trade secrets to poach Plaintiff’s clients for their competitive business.  Plaintiff also claims Baboli borrowed $9,540 pursuant to a promissory note which he has failed to repay.    The operative complaint alleges claims for (1) misappropriation of trade secrets, (2) breach of promissory note, (3) breach of fiduciary duty, (4) breach of duty of loyalty, (5) unfair competition, (6) intentional interference with prospective economic relations, (7) negligent interference with prospective economic relations, (8) conversion and (9) trespass to chattel.  The complaint seeks unspecified damages, interest, attorney’s fees and costs.      Plaintiff served the Entity Defendants by substitute service on February 8, 2023.  Service is deemed completed on the 10th day after mailing, which is February 19, 2023.  Defendants’ response to the Complaint was due by March 21, 2023.  Defendants failed to respond.  Accordingly, default was entered against the Entity Defendants on April 27, 2023.    This hearing is on Plaintiff’s request for entry of default judgment against the Entity Defendants.  The Court previously denied the request because (1) Plaintiff’s complaint failed to specify any damages, as required under Code Civ. Proc. § 580, (2) Plaintiff’s request for entry of default judgment sought punitive damages, although Plaintiff failed to serve a statement of damages specifying the amount of punitive damages it sought before entry of default pursuant to Code Civ. Proc. §425.114, and (3) Plaintiff’s request for entry of default judgment sought default judgment against Baboli, though the Court set aside entry of default judgment against him.  Plaintiff now argues that while damages were not specified in its prayer for relief, damages were stated elsewhere in the body of its complaint.  Plaintiff also now abandons its claim for punitive damages and for request of entry of default judgment against Baboli.  RELIEF REQUESTED  Default judgment against Defendants for a total of $250,804.64 consisting of (1) $123,192,38 in special damages, (2) $23,138.27 in prejudgment interest at 10% per annum, (4) $102,764.10 in attorneys’ fees, and (5) $1,709.89 in costs.   ANALYSIS  Code of Civil Procedure section 585 sets forth the two options for obtaining a default judgment. First, where the plaintiff’s complaint¿seeks compensatory damages only, in a sum certain which is readily ascertainable from the allegations of the complaint or statement of damages, the clerk may enter the default judgment for that amount. However, if the relief requested in the complaint is more complicated, consisting of either nonmonetary relief, or monetary relief in amounts which require either an accounting, additional evidence, or the exercise of judgment to ascertain, the plaintiff must request entry of judgment by the court. In such cases, the plaintiff must affirmatively establish his entitlement to the specific judgment requested.¿ (Kim v. Westmoore Partners, Inc. (2011) 201 Cal.App.4th 267, 287.) Section 585 also allows for interest, costs and attorney fees, where otherwise allowed by law. (Code of Civ. Proc.  585(a).)  Multiple specific documents are required, such as: (1) form CIV 100, (2) a brief summary of the case; (3) declarations or other admissible evidence in support of the judgment requested; (4) interest computations as necessary; (5) a memorandum of costs and disbursements; (6) a proposed form of judgment; (7) a dismissal of all parties against whom judgment is not sought or an application for separate judgment under CCP § 579, supported by a showing of grounds for each judgment; (8) exhibits as necessary; and (9) a request for attorneys’ fees if allowed by statute or by the agreement of the parties.  (CRC Rule 3.1800.)  The relief granted to a plaintiff on a request for entry of default judgment “cannot exceed that which [is] demanded in [the] complaint . . . .” (Code Civ. Proc. § 580.)¿ Section 580¿exists to insure that a defaulting defendant has adequate notice of the judgment that might (and probably will) be entered against him, and to permit an enlightened decision about whether to appear and defend or to give up that right “in exchange for the certainty that he cannot be held liable for more than a known amount.” (Ely v. Gray¿(1990) 224 Cal. App. 3d 1257, 1261;¿In re Marriage of Lippel¿(1990) 51 Cal. 3d 1160, 1166;¿Greenup v. Rodman¿(1986) 42 Cal. 3d 822, 826.)  It follows that the amount of damages communicated to the defaulting defendant sets the ceiling on the plaintiff's recovery, and that a default judgment in excess of that amount is void.  (Schwab v. Rondel Homes, Inc. (1991) 53 Cal. 3d 428, 433;¿Greenup v. Rodman,¿ 42 Cal. 3d at 824.) Here, paragraph 25 of Plaintiff’s complaint specifies $90,000 in damages.  It states: “Specifically, Defendants have intentionally and successfully interfered with Plaintiff’s relations with at least two clients.  One such client had committed to retain Plaintiff to perform an approximately $90,000 project.  However, after Defendants interfered with the relationship, the client terminated its relationship with Plaintiff and started a direct relationship with Defendants’ competing business.  The same is true for at least one other client as well.”    These damages are sought in connection with Plaintiff’s claims for misappropriation of trade secrets, breach of fiduciary duty, breach of duty of loyalty, unfair competition, intentional interference with prospective economic relations, and negligent interference with prospective economic relations.  However, damages cannot be sought in connection with a claim for unfair competition.  (Korea Supply Co. v. Lockheed Martin Corp. (2003) 29 Cal.4th 1134, 1150.)  Notwithstanding, the Court concludes Plaintiff has specified $90,000 in damages as to the other remaining claims.    Plaintiff also seeks an additional $5,073.94 on its claim for breach of the promissory note.  But that claim was only asserted against Baboli, not the Entity Defendants.  Accordingly, Court declines to include that amount in the default judgment.  Plaintiff further seeks an additional $27,755.17 for damage to a car it loaned to Baboli as well as other equipment Baboli failed to return.  These damages are sought in connection with Plaintiff’s claims for conversion and trespass to chattel.  However, these amounts are not specified anywhere in the complaint, and therefore, cannot be sought on a request for entry of default judgment.      Plaintiff also requests injunctive relief:  prohibiting Defendants, and all other persons or entities acting in concert with or on their behalf from directly or indirectly disclosing, using, copying, selling, transmitting or otherwise misappropriating Plaintiff’s Trade Secrets and Confidential Information; prohibiting Defendants from continuing services for any client acquired due to use of Plaintiff’s Trade Secrets or Confidential Information; prohibiting Defendants from continuing services for any client that was previously a client or a potential client of Plaintiff; ordering Defendants and all other persons or entities acting in concert with or on their behalf to preserve and return to Plaintiff all electronic files, hard copy documents, including copies thereof, and other material and property belonging to Plaintiff in their possession, custody and/or control, including its Trade Secrets and Confidential Information; ordering Defendants, at their own cost, to allow a third party computer forensic company to conduct a confidential forensic analysis on Defendants’ servers to ensure that Plaintiff’s Trade Secret and Confidential Information or any portion thereof is not maintained on them, ordering Defendants, at their own cost, to allow a third party forensic company to obtain an image of the hard drive on all of the Competing Center’s laptops, computers, cell phones and other electronic storage devices issued to Defendants as well as an image of all of his personal such devices, in order to conduct a similar confidential forensic analysis; and ordering Defendants, at their own cost, to allow a third party forensic company to obtain copies of all emails sent by Defendants to date in connection with their competing business, in order to analyze any emails that contain Plaintiff’s Trade Secrets and Confidential Information. “Trade Secret” is defined as “lists with information including, but not limited to, the names, addresses, phone numbers, system, configurations, network set ups, customer order preferences, particular needs and characteristics, functions, and other information for each client.”  (Compl. ¶15.) “Confidential Information is defined as “certain material information about Network Experts’ business operations that, even if not necessarily trade secret, were nevertheless confidential, including without limitation, information concerning Network Experts’ clients, suppliers, employees, contractors, contract terms, pricing, financing, and other business practices.”  (Id. ¶16.) While Plaintiff is entitled to an injunction, its current request for¿injunctive relief is overbroad.  Given the nature of the¿default judgment requested, the Court is concerned that a broad injunction will lead to satellite litigation over the injunction's applicability to specific business information.  The Court accordingly grants the injunctive relief only as to the information specifically identified in paragraphs 15-16 of the Complaint.   Plaintiff also seeks attorneys’ fees and costs.  Plaintiff argues that such fees and costs are recoverable under the Promissory Note which states Plaintiff is entitled to recover “all costs of collection, including a reasonable attorneys’ fees in case the principal of this note or any payment on the principal or any interest thereon is not paid at the respective maturity thereof, or in case it becomes necessary to protect the security hereof, whether suit be brought or not.”  However, the Promissory Note was entered only as between Plaintiff and Baboli.  Accordingly, the attorneys’ fees provision in the Promissory Note is not enforceable against the Entity Defendants.     Further, while Plaintiff may recover costs even absent an agreement, Plaintiff failed to complete the memorandum of costs in item 7 of the CIV 100 form.  Use of CIV 100, item 7, is mandatory if costs are requested.  (Cal. Rules of Court 3.1800(a).)   Finally, Plaintiff seeks prejudgment interest pursuant to Civ. Code § 3288.  Section 3288 “allows interest from the date of monetary loss at the discretion of the trier of fact even if the damages are unliquidated.”  (Stein v. Southern Cal. Edison Co. (1992) 7 Cal.App.4th 565, 572.)  Plaintiff seeks prejudgment interest from January 1, 2022, when Plaintiff began working with Defendants.  Plaintiff fails to explain, however, how this date is the start date of the tortious act causing their damages. (Newby v. Vroman¿(1992) 11 Cal.App.4th 283, 289, 14 Cal. Rptr. 2d 44 “[W]here prejudgment interest is awarded under [Civil Code] section¿3288¿in order to compensate respondents fully for their loss, that interest must first be calculated on the entire judgment . . . from the date of the tortious act proximately causing their damages.").)  Accordingly, the Court declines to award prejudgment interest.  ¿      CONCLUSION AND ORDER   For the foregoing reasons, Plaintiff Network Express Inc.’s Request for Default Judgment is GRANTED IN PART and DENIED IN PART as to Defendants Beverly Hills IT Services and Beverly Hills IT.  Judgment is awarded in the sum of $90,000, and injunctive relief is granted.     
