 Case Number:  23AHCV02924    Hearing Date:   March 11, 2024    Dept:  X    Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Joel L. Lofton,
Department X
 
 
HEARING DATE:      March 11, 2024                                               TRIAL DATE: No date set. 
                                                           
CASE:                         ASN PASADENA LLC,
v. MARIKA MCWHOTER and DIETRICH RILEY
 
CASE NO.:                 23AHCV02924
 
            
 
MOTION
TO SET ASIDE DEFAULT

 
MOVING PARTY:               Defendants Marika McWhoter and
Dietrich Riley (“Defendants”)
 
RESPONDING PARTY:      No
response filed. 
 
SERVICE:                              Filed February 23, 2024
 
RELIEF
REQUESTED 
 
             Defendants move to set aside the
entry of default and default judgment entered on February 14, 2024. 
 
BACKGROUND
 
             This case arises out of Plaintiff ASN Pasadena
LLC’s (“Plaintiff”) unlawful detainer claim for property located at 25. S. Oak
Knoll Avenue #517, Pasadena, California 91101. Plaintiff filed its complaint on
December 19, 2023. 
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 
Defendants’
motion to set aside default and default judgment is GRANTED.
 
LEGAL STANDARD
 
“Section 473(b) provides for both discretionary and
mandatory relief. [Citation.]” (Pagnini v. Union Bank, N.A. (2018) 28 Cal.App.5th
298, 302.)  The discretionary relief provisions of Code of Civil
Procedure section 473, subd. (b) provide in relevant part: “The court may, upon any terms
as may be just, relieve a party or his or her legal representative from a
judgment, dismissal, order, or other proceeding taken against him or her
through his or her mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or excusable neglect. Application
for this relief shall be accompanied by a copy of the answer or
other pleading proposed to be filed therein, otherwise the application
shall not be granted, and shall be made within a reasonable time, in no case
exceeding six months, after the judgment, dismissal, order, or proceeding was
taken.” 
 
The mandatory relief provision provides that a court shall grant
relief “whenever an application for relief is made no more than six months after
entry of judgment, is in proper form, and is accompanied by an attorney’s sworn
affidavit attesting to his or her mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or neglect,
vacate any (1) resulting default entered by the clerk against his or her
client, and which will result in entry of a default judgment, or (2) resulting
default judgment or dismissal entered against his or her client, unless the
court finds that the default or dismissal was not in fact caused by the
attorney’s mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or neglect.” (Code Civ. Proc.
section 473, subd. (b).)
 
DISCUSSION
 
            Defendants
move to set aside default and default judgment entered against them. On
February 14, 2024, default and default clerk’s judgment was entered against
Defendants. Defendants raise various grounds to set aside the entry of default
and default judgment.  
 
            However, Defendants’ declaration only addresses grounds
pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 473.5. Code of Civil Procedure
section 473.5 provides: “When service of a summons has not resulted in
actual notice to a party in time to defend the action and a default or default
judgment has been entered against him or her in the action, he or she may serve
and file a notice of motion to set aside the default or default judgment and
for leave to defend the action. The notice of motion shall be served and filed
within a reasonable time, but in no event exceeding the earlier of:
(i) two years after entry of a default judgment against him or her; or
(ii) 180 days after service on him or her of a written notice that the
default or default judgment has been entered.”
 
            Dietrich
Riley provides that he was never notified of the summons and complaint. (Riley
Decl. ¶ 2.) Plaintiff has not filed an opposition to the present
motion. Defendants have demonstrated that service has not resulted in actual
notice to the parties in time to defend the action. Defendants’ motion to set
aside default and default judgment is granted. 
 
CONCLUSION
 
Defendants’
motion to set aside default and default judgment is GRANTED.
 
 
 
 
 
            
Dated:   March 11, 2024                                             ___________________________________
                                                                                    Joel
L. Lofton
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court