 Case Number:  23STCV28000    Hearing Date:   April 4, 2024    Dept:  72 SUPERIOR COURT OF CALIFORNIA
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES
 
DEPARTMENT 72
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DAVID ROMERO, 
 
                                  Plaintiff,
  
         v.
 
 
CASUDA CANYON RESTAURANT
  CORPORATION
 
                                  Defendant.
         


 Case No: 
  23STCV28000
 
 
 
 
 
 Hearing Date:  April 4, 2024
 Calendar Number:  4



 
 
 
Defendant Casuda Canyon Restaurant Corporation (“Defendant”)
moves the Court for an order compelling Plaintiff David Romero (“Plaintiff”) to
arbitrate his claims against Defendant and dismissing or staying this action.
 
The Court DENIES Defendant’s motion.
 
Background
 
          This
is an employment case. Plaintiff worked for Defendant as a general manager of
the Luminarias Restaurant beginning in June 2023 and ending when Defendant
terminated him on August 11, 2023.
 
          Plaintiff
filed this action on November 15, 2023. The complaint raises claims for (1)
retaliation in violation of FEHA; (2) failure to prevent retaliation; (3)
retaliation in violation of Labor Code, section 1102.5; (4) wrongful
termination; (5) failure to pay minimum wages; (6) failure to pay overtime
wages; (7) failure to provide meal periods; (8) failure to authorize or permit
rest periods; (9) failure to timely pay wages; and (10) failure to provide
adequate pay stubs.
 
          Defendant
moved to compel arbitration on March 8, 2024. Plaintiff filed an opposition and
Defendant filed a reply.
 
Evidentiary Objections
 
The Court sustains Plaintiff’s first, second, and third
objections to the Declaration of Ashley N. Pham. Pham does not establish
foundation or personal knowledge for her statements that the documents were
signed by Plaintiff.
 
The Court overrules the remaining objections.
 
Legal Standard
 
“[W]hen a petition to compel arbitration is filed and
accompanied by prima facie evidence of a written agreement to arbitrate the
controversy, the court itself must determine whether the agreement exists and,
if any defense to its enforcement is raised, whether it is enforceable. Because
the existence of the agreement is a statutory prerequisite to granting the
petition, the petitioner bears the burden of proving its existence by a preponderance
of the evidence. If the party opposing the petition raises a defense to
enforcement—either fraud in the execution voiding the agreement, or a statutory
defense of waiver or revocation (see § 1281.2, subds. (a), (b))—that party
bears the burden of producing evidence of, and proving by a preponderance of
the evidence, any fact necessary to the defense.” (Rosenthal v. Great
Western Fin. Securities Corp. (1996) 14 Cal.4th 394, 413.)
 
Discussion
 
The Arbitration Provisions
 
Defendant submits two documents pertaining to arbitration.
The first is a “Notice of Voluntary Dispute Resolution Agreement” (the
“Notice”). (Insichienmay Decl., Exh. A.) The second is a “Voluntary Dispute
Resolution Agreement” (the “Agreement”). (Insichienmay Decl., Exh. B.) 
 
The Notice does not purport to be an agreement to submit
disputes to arbitration. The bottom of the notice contains a signature line.
Above the signature line is a box labeled “Electronically Signed By.” Inside of
the box is typed the beginning of Plaintiff’s name (specifically, “David
Anthony Rom…” [ellipse in original]).
 
The Agreement states that the parties agree to use binding
arbitration to resolve all disputes that arise out of or are related to
employment with Defendant.
 
The bottom of the Agreement contains a signature line where
the beginning of Plaintiff’s name, “David Anthony Rom…” [ellipse in original]
is typed. Unlike in the Notice, there is no box or label indicating that it is
an electronic signature.
 
Mutual Assent
 
“In California, general principles of contract law determine
whether the parties have entered a binding agreement to arbitrate, and the
party seeking arbitration bears the burden of proving the existence of an
arbitration agreement.” (Ruiz v. Moss Bros. Auto Group, Inc. (2014) 232
Cal.App.4th 836, 842 [internal citations and quotation marks omitted; cleaned
up.)
 
“Still, any writing must be authenticated before the
writing, or secondary evidence of its content, may be received in evidence.” (Ibid.)
“Authentication of a writing means (a) the introduction of evidence sufficient
to sustain a finding that it is the writing that the proponent of the evidence
claims it is or (b) the establishment of such facts by any other means provided
by law.” (Evid. Code, § 1400.) 
 
“[T]he burden of authenticating an electronic signature is
not great.” (Ruiz, supra, 232 Cal.App.4th at p. 844.) However,
“[i]n the face of [a plaintiff’s] failure to recall signing the 2011 agreement,
[a defendant has] the burden of proving by a preponderance of the evidence that
the electronic signature was authentic[.]” (Id. at p. 846.)
 
Chantira Insichienmay declares that Defendant uses a
software called UKG UltiPro Solutions (“UKG”) to provide a portal for the
submission of employment applications and the distribution of forms and
policies to applicants and employees. (Insichienmay Decl. ¶ 5.) Employees’
logins are password-protected, and Defendant cannot obtain the passwords, nor
can a different user edit a form submitted by a user. (Insichienmay Decl. ¶ 6.)

 
Insichienmay declares that Plaintiff’s UKG file contains a
Notice and an Agreement, each of which was electronically signed by Plaintiff
on May 23, 2023. (Insichienmay Decl. ¶ 11.) Insichienmay’s declaration provides
the primary evidence in support of Defendant’s motion, and Insichienmay is the
only witness who has personal knowledge relating to whether Plaintiff signed
the Agreement.
 
Plaintiff denies that he signed the agreement. Plaintiff avers
in his declaration that any new hire paperwork he completed would have been
completed in one sitting, on May 23, 2023. (Romero Decl. ¶ 2.) Plaintiff states
that he does not recall signing any new hire paperwork after that date. (Romero
Decl. ¶ 2.) Thus, Defendant must prove the authenticity of Plaintiff’s
purported signature at the bottom of the Agreement.
 
Defendant’s own evidence raises doubts that Plaintiff signed
the Agreement. 
 
Insichienmay’s declaration states that that when the Notice
is signed, the user receives an indication stating, “I acknowledge that I
received a copy of the Voluntary Dispute Resolution Agreement” at the end with
a yellow box indicating “Sign Here.” (Insichienmay Decl. ¶ 7.) The user is
prompted to select the yellow box indicating “Sign Here” and, after selecting
that yellow box, the user’s first and last name will be populated in the
signature line. (Insichienmay Decl. ¶ 7.) The same thing happens when a user
signs that Agreement - the user receives an indication stating, “I acknowledge
that I received a copy of the Voluntary Dispute Resolution Agreement” at the
end with a yellow box indicating “Sign Here.” (Insichienmay Decl. ¶ 8.) The
user is prompted to select the yellow box indicating “Sign Here” and, after
selecting that yellow box, the user’s first and last name will be populated in
the signature line. (Insichienmay Decl. ¶ 8.)


In other words, the dialog that an employee clicks through
that results in their electronic signature appearing on the Agreement does not
state with any clarity that they are agreeing to the Agreement. Rather, it seems
to represent to the employee that their signature is an acknowledgment of
receipt, much like with the Notice. The declaration supports that the employee
is led to believe something different than the statement on the face of the
Agreement stating that the employee’s signature on the Agreement makes the
Agreement binding.
 
The Court finds that Defendant has not met its burden of
proving the existence of an arbitration agreement.  