  Case Number:  19STCV34358    Hearing Date:   January 23, 2024    Dept:  72  
SUPERIOR COURT OF CALIFORNIA
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES
 
DEPARTMENT 72
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



BEVERLY HILLS POLICE OFFICERS'
  ASSOCIATION, et al., 
 
                                  Plaintiff,
  
         v.
 
 
CITY OF BEVERLY HILLS, et al.,
 
                                  Defendants.
 


 Case No: 
  19STCV34358
 
 
 
 
 
 Hearing Date:  January 23, 2024
 Calendar Number:  1



 
 
 
Defendant California Public Employees Retirement System
(“CalPERS”) moves for judgment on the pleadings as to the fourth cause of
action for declaratory judgment in the Second Amended Complaint (“SAC”) filed
by Plaintiffs Ryan Lawrence, Alex Duncan, and Tyler Diamond (collectively, the “Individual
Plaintiffs”), and Beverly Hills Police Officers’ Association (“BHPOA”)
(collectively, “Plaintiffs”).
 
The Court CONTINUES CalPERS’s motion and STAYS this action
pending the outcome of the Code of Civil Procedure, section 1094.5 Writ of
Mandate proceedings initiated by Plaintiffs. 
The Court sets a status conference re writ of mandate proceedings for
August 14, 2024 at 8:30 a.m.
 
Background
 
The City of Beverley Hills (the “City”) contracts with
CalPERS for the purpose of providing certain benefits, including retirement
benefits, for its employees. The Individual Plaintiffs receive retirement
benefits through this program.
 
The Individual Plaintiffs were employees of the City and
were enrolled in the CalPERS retirement program pursuant to a Memorandum of
Understanding (the “MOU”) governing their relationship with the City. The
central issue in this case is the retirement formula the Individual Plaintiffs
were enrolled in. In short, although the Individual Plaintiffs were enrolled in
a "3% by 55 formula,” they contend that they actually should have been
enrolled in a “3% by 50 formula” under the MOU.
 
Plaintiffs filed this action on September 26, 2019. The
operative complaint is now the SAC. Plaintiffs filed the SAC against the City
and CalPERS on February 24, 2020, raising claims for (1) breach of contract –
Memorandum of Understanding; (2) breach of contract – Individual Employment
Agreement; (3) petition for writ of mandate; and (4) declaratory relief.
 
On August 24, 2020, the Court transferred the third cause of
action to the Writs and Receivers Department.
 
On December 17, 2020, Department 85 in the Writs and
Receivers Department sustained the demurrer to the third cause of action for
failure to exhaust administrative remedies, stating that Plaintiffs would need
to seek relief from CalPERS.
 
On December 22, 2020, Plaintiffs requested that CalPERS
change the retirement formula for the Individual Plaintiffs to the 3% at 50
formula. On February 2, 2021, CalPERS issued a determination that the
Individual Plaintiffs were correctly enrolled in the 3% at 55 formula. 
 
On October 5, 2021, the Court sustained CalPERS’s demurrer
to the first and second causes of action against CalPERS without leave to
amend. Therein, the Court found that the first cause of action was unfounded as
against CalPERS because Plaintiffs conceded that CalPERS is not liable for
breach of the MOU. The Court found that CalPERS could not be liable under the
second cause of action because Plaintiffs had not entered into an employment
agreement with CalPERS. The Court found that CalPERS was not otherwise a
necessary party to either of those causes of action. The Court overruled the
demurrer with respect to the fourth cause of action for declaratory relief,
explaining that “the CalPERS board cannot determine the proper interpretation
of the MOU between the City and [the Association]. That interpretation is left
to this Court.” (October 5, 2021 Minute Order at p. 2.) 
 
Meanwhile, Plaintiffs appealed CalPERS’s finding that the
Individual Plaintiffs were properly enrolled in the 3% at 55 formula, and an
administrative hearing (the “OAH Hearing”) was initiated with the OAH and was
conducted on February 1, April 13, and April 22, 2022. (CalPERS RJN, Exh. 7
(“OAH Proposed Order”).) CalPERS, Plaintiffs, and the City participated in the
OAH Hearing and were represented by counsel. (OAH Proposed Order at p. 2.) Plaintiffs
presented documentary evidence and testimony and conducted oral and written
arguments and cross-examination of witnesses. (OAH Proposed Order at pp. 2-3,
13-14.)
 
On September 12, 2022, the administrative law judge (“ALJ”)
issued a proposed order. (OAH Proposed Order at p. 26.) That order was
subsequently adopted by the CalPERS Board of Administration. (CalPERS RJN, Exh.
8 at p. 3.) The ALJ explicitly rejected the Court’s determination (and
CalPERS’s position at the OAH Hearing) that it could not consider the terms of
the MOU, determining that it had the power under PERL to determine the meaning
of the MOU. (OAH Proposed Order at pp. 18-19.) As explained by the ALJ, “jurisdiction
is established to determine (1) whether PERS and City acted in compliance with
Government Code 20475 and (2) whether City committed any error in applying
the 3% at 55 retirement formula to [Plaintiffs] under Government Code
sections 20475 and 20160. The ALJ must consider the language of the 2011 MOU
to make these determinations. The potential impact of the AU's findings outside
of this proceeding is not determinative of the resolution of the issues here.
However, the AU's authority is limited to claims based on the PERL; no other
claims have been considered.” (OAH Proposed Order at p. 19 [emphasis added].)
 
On May 11, 2023, the Court granted summary adjudication for
the City on the first, second, and fourth causes of action and, as a result,
granted the City summary judgment as to the entire action. The Court found that
the first cause of action was barred by collateral estoppel as a result of the
OAH Hearing. In reaching that conclusion, the Court found that the OAH Hearing
addressed the issue of whether the Individual Plaintiffs were correctly
classified in the 3% at 55 formula under the MOU and was a final judgment on
the merits by an administrative agency acting in a quasi-judicial capacity. The
Court found that summary adjudication for the City was appropriate on the
fourth cause of action because summary adjudication had been granted on the
first two claims, removing any basis for declaratory judgment that Plaintiffs
were entitled to be enrolled in the 3% by 50 formula pursuant to either the MOA
(first cause of action) or individual employment agreements (second cause of
action).
 
On June 23, 2023, Plaintiffs filed a Writ of Mandate
pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure, section 1094.5 requesting a review of the
OAH decision (the “Writ Proceedings”). (CalPERS RJN, Exh. 11.) Plaintiffs
requested to set aside the decision and categorize the Individual Plaintiffs in
the 3% at 50 formula. The Writ Proceedings are now scheduled for a Trial
Setting Conference on February 8, 2024, where the date of the hearing will
likely be determined.
 
CalPERS filed the instant motion on July 3, 2023. Plaintiffs
filed an opposition and CalPERS filed a reply.
 
The Court held an initial hearing on this motion on
September 21, 2023. The Court heard argument on (1) CalPERS’s argument that
Plaintiffs’ action is barred by collateral estoppel following the OAH decision;
(2) CalPERS’s argument that Plaintiffs had failed to exhaust administrative
remedies; and (3) CalPERS’s argument that the fourth cause of action fails
because the Court dismissed the first and second causes of action against
CalPERS. Following the hearing, the Court ordered the parties to file additional
briefing on the status of the Writ Proceedings and the issue of collateral
estoppel. The Court also determined that a motion for judgment on the pleadings
was the proper vehicle by which to bring CalPERS’s arguments here.
 
Requests for Judicial Notice
 
The Court grants the parties’ requests for judicial notice.
 
Legal Standard
 
It is well established in California that either prior to
trial, but after the time to answer or demur has passed, or at the trial, the
plaintiff or the defendant may move for judgment on the pleadings and that the
appropriate ground for such a motion is the same as that arguable by general
demurrer, namely, the failure to state a cause of action or defense. (Dobbins
v. Hardister (1966) 242 Cal.App.2d 787, 791; See also Sofias v. Bank of
America (1985) 172 Cal.App.3d 583, 586 [The non-statutory motion for
judgment on the pleadings can be made at any time, even during trial, since the
grounds for a general demurrer are never waived.], see also Code Civ. Proc.,
§438(f).)  
 
A motion for judgment on the pleadings performs the same
function as a general demurrer, and hence attacks only defects disclosed on the
face of the pleadings or by matters that can be judicially noticed. (See, e.g.,
Weil & Brown, Cal. Practice Guide: Civil Procedure Before Trial (TRG 1998)
§§ 7:275, 7:322; Lance Camper Manufacturing Corp. v. Republic Indemnity Co.
(1996) 44 Cal.App.4th 194, 198.) Presentation of extrinsic evidence is
therefore not proper on a motion for judgment on the pleadings. (Id.; Cloud
v. Northrop Grumman Corp. (1998) 67 Cal.App.4th 995, 999.) Both a demurrer
and a motion for judgment on the pleadings accept as true all material factual
allegations of the challenged pleading, unless contrary to law or to facts of
which a court may take judicial notice. (Mechanical Contractors Assn. v.
Greater Bay Area Assn. (1998) 66 Cal.App.4th 672, 677; Edwards v. Centex
Real Estate Corp, (1997) 53 Cal.App.4th 15, 27.) 
 
The motion may be made only after one of the following
conditions has occurred: (1) If the moving party is a plaintiff, and the
defendant has already filed his or her answer to the complaint and the time for
the plaintiff to demur to the answer has expired; (2) If the moving party is a
defendant, and the defendant has already filed his or her answer to the
complaint and the time for the defendant to demur to the complaint has expired.
(Code Civ. Proc., § 438(f).) The motion provided for in Code of Civil Procedure
section 438 may be made even though either of the following conditions
exist:  (1) The moving party has already demurred to the complaint or
answer, as the case may be, on the same grounds as is the basis for the motion
provided for in this section and the demurrer has been overruled, provided that
there has been a material change in applicable case law or statute since the
ruling on the demurrer; (2) The moving party did not demur to the complaint or
answer, as the case may be, on the same grounds as is the basis for the motion
provided for in this section. (Code Civ. Proc., § 438(g).) No motion may be
made pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 438 if a pretrial conference
order has been entered pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 575, or
within 30 days of the date the action is initially set for trial, whichever is
later, unless the court otherwise permits. (Code Civ. Proc., § 438(e).) 
 
Discussion
 
          The
Court has already sustained CalPERS’s demurrer as to Plaintiffs’ claims against
CalPERS for breach of the MOU and breach of alleged individual employment
agreements. The Court declined to dismiss Plaintiffs’ declaratory relief claim
against CalPERS at the time because the issue of the MOU’s applicability to the
City was yet to be determined. On summary judgment, the
Court determined that the ALJ’s finding that the City had not violated the MOU
was preclusive, and therefore dismissed the first, second, and fourth causes of
action against the City. Thus, the issue of the MOU’s applicability to the City
has been determined.

 
Collateral Estoppel
 
Plaintiffs argue that the application of collateral estoppel
to the ALJ’s findings on the MOU is improper.
 
“As generally understood, ‘[t]he doctrine of res judicata
gives certain conclusive effect to a former judgment in subsequent litigation
involving the same controversy.’ [Citation.] The doctrine ‘has a double
aspect.’ [Citation.] ‘In its primary aspect,’ commonly known as claim
preclusion, it ‘operates as a bar to the maintenance of a second suit between
the same parties on the same cause of action. [Citation.]’ [Citation.] ‘In its
secondary aspect,’ commonly known as collateral estoppel, ‘[t]he prior judgment
... “operates” ’ in ‘a second suit ... based on a different cause of action ...
“as an estoppel or conclusive adjudication as to such issues in the second
action as were actually litigated and determined in the first action.”
[Citation.]’ [Citation.] ‘The prerequisite elements for applying the doctrine
to either an entire cause of action or one or more issues are the same: (1) A
claim or issue raised in the present action is identical to a claim or issue
litigated in a prior proceeding; (2) the prior proceeding resulted in a final
judgment on the merits; and (3) the party against whom the doctrine is being
asserted was a party or in privity with a party to the prior proceeding.
[Citations.]’” (Boeken v. Philip Morris USA, Inc. (2010) 48 Cal.4th 788,
797.)
 
Plaintiffs argue that the ALJ could not have resolved their
claims in the SAC because the ALJ only considered Plaintiffs’ statutory claims,
and not on their contract claims. However, as discussed above, collateral
estoppel can apply to individual issues, in the form of issue preclusion, in
addition to entire claims. In evaluating Plaintiffs’ statutory claims, the ALJ
necessarily considered the meaning of the MOU terms when determining that PERS
properly applied the MOU to put Plaintiffs in the 3% at 55 formula. Thus, while
the ALJ could not make a determination on Plaintiffs’ contract claims
writ-large, the interpretations which the ALJ did reach as a necessary
part of evaluating Plaintiffs’ statutory claims has the ability to be
preclusive, as explained in the Court’s summary judgment minute order.
 
There is no dispute that the exact same parties present here
were represented at the OAH Hearing. However, because an appeal of the OAH
decision is pending in the Writ Proceedings, the parties agree that the OAH
decision is not yet final for the purposes of collateral estoppel. 
 
CalPERS requests that the Court stay this action pending the
resolution of the Writ Proceedings. “Trial courts generally have the inherent
power to stay proceedings in the interests of justice and to promote judicial efficiency.”
(Freiberg v. City of Mission Viejo (1995) 33 Cal.App.4th 1484, 1489
citing Walker v. Superior Court (1991) 53 Cal.3d 257, 266, 279.) Given
the already tortured history of this case, the Court concludes that such a stay
would be in the interest of judicial efficiency. The Court therefore stays this
action and continues CalPERS’s motion pending the outcome of the Writ
Proceedings.