 Case Number:  21STCV27139    Hearing Date:   January 23, 2024    Dept:  72  
SUPERIOR COURT OF CALIFORNIA
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES
 
DEPARTMENT 72
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



VALERIE KINCAID, 
 
                                  Plaintiff,
  
         v.
 
 
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES, et al.,
 
                                  Defendants.
 


 Case No: 
  21STCV27139
 
 
 
 
 
 Hearing Date:  January 23, 2024
 Calendar Number:  7



 
 
 
Defendant County of Los Angeles (the “County”) moves for
summary judgment on the Complaint filed by Plaintiff Valerie Kincaid
(“Plaintiff”) and, in the alternative, moves for summary adjudication on each
cause of action.
 
The Court DENIES Defendant’s motion. 
 
Background
 
Plaintiff is employed as a clerk with the County. From the
end of 2019 through December 2020, Plaintiff’s coworker, Marlene Tobin,
frequently yelled at Plaintiff and made allegedly derogatory comments toward
her on the basis of her race. (Plaintiff’s Separate Statement of Additional Facts
(“AMF”) 52, 76-78, 80, 87.) Plaintiff repeatedly complained to her managers
about Tobin’s conduct, but it took over a year for Tobin to be moved. (AMF 58-75,
79-83, 89-96.)
 
Plaintiff filed the Complaint against Defendants Tobin and
the County on July 23, 2021, stating claims for (1) harassment based on race;
(2) discrimination based on race; (3) retaliation for opposing violations of
FEHA; (4) failure to prevent harassment, discrimination, and retaliation; and
(5) whistleblower retaliation in violation of Labor Code section 1102.5.
 
On November 2, 2021, the Court overruled the County’s
demurrer complaint and found that Plaintiff’s managers’ alleged failure to move
Tobin to another unit facially constituted an adverse employment action for the
retaliation cause of action. (November 2, 2021 Minute Order at p. 2.)
 
The County filed this motion for summary judgment or in the
alternative summary adjudication on April 24, 2023. Plaintiff filed an Opposition,
and the County filed a Reply.
 
Evidentiary Objections
 
The Court overrules the parties’ evidentiary objections
without prejudice to their ability to raise those objections at trial.
 
Legal Standard
 
The purpose of a motion for
summary judgment or summary adjudication “is to provide courts with a mechanism
to cut through the parties’ pleadings in order to determine whether, despite
their allegations, trial is in fact necessary to resolve their dispute.” (Aguilar
v. Atlantic Richfield Co., supra, 25 Cal.4th at p. 843.) “Code of
Civil Procedure section 437c, subdivision (c), requires the trial judge to
grant summary judgment if all the evidence submitted, and ‘all inferences
reasonably deducible from the evidence’ and uncontradicted by other inferences
or evidence, show that there is no triable issue as to any material fact and
that the moving party is entitled to judgment as a matter of law.” (Adler v.
Manor Healthcare Corp. (1992) 7 Cal.App.4th 1110, 1119.) 
 
“In ruling on the motion,
the court must consider all of the evidence and all of the inferences
reasonably drawn therefrom [citation] and must view such evidence [citations]
and such inferences [citations] in the light most favorable to the opposing
party.” (Aguilar, supra, at pp. 844-845 [quotation marks
omitted].) 
 
“On a motion for summary
judgment, the initial burden is always on the moving party to make a prima
facie
showing that there are no triable issues of material fact.” (Scalf v. D. B.
Log Homes, Inc. (2005) 128 Cal.App.4th 1510, 1519.)  A defendant moving for
summary judgment or summary adjudication “has met his or her burden of showing
that a cause of action has no merit if the party has shown that one or more
elements of the cause of action . . . cannot be established, or that there is a
complete defense to the cause of action.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd.
(p)(2).) 
 
“Once the defendant . . .
has met that burden, the burden shifts to the plaintiff . . . to show that a
triable issue of one or more material facts exists as to the cause of action or
a defense thereto.” (Ibid.) To establish a triable issue of material
fact, the party opposing the motion must produce substantial responsive
evidence. (Sangster v. Paetkau (1998) 68 Cal.App.4th 151, 166.) “If the plaintiff cannot do
so, summary judgment should be granted.” (Avivi v. Centro Medico Urgente
Medical Center (2008) 159 Cal.App.4th 463, 467.)
 
Discussion
 
Harassment Based on Race – First Cause of Action
 
To establish a prima facie case of a hostile work
environment, [the plaintiff] must show that (1) [plaintiff] is a member of a
protected class; (2) [plaintiff] was subjected to unwelcome harassment; (3) the
harassment was based on [plaintiff’s] protected status; (4) the harassment
unreasonably interfered with [plaintiff’s] work performance by creating an
intimidating, hostile, or offensive work environment; and (5) defendants are
liable for the harassment.”  (Ortiz v. Dameron Hospital
Assn. (2019) 37 Cal.App.5th 568, 581.)  
 
Severe and Pervasive Harassment
 
The County argues that Tobin’s conduct was not severe and
pervasive enough to create a hostile work environment. 
 
Beginning around November or December 2019, Tobin started
making comments to herself while wearing headphones and listening to talk shows
about how certain groups are “stupid” and “losers.” (AMF 63.) 
 
Around May 2020, following the killing of George Floyd, Tobin
began making comments such as “[w]hy is everyone so upset about the George
Floyd thing? We didn’t see everything on the video”; “Black Lives Matter
protestors are not protesting, they are just destroying things, they are
criminals. They don’t care about justice”; “[t]hey [referring to Black Lives
Matter protestors] are not protesting, they’re just thugs and
terrorists…destroying everything, killing police”; referring to Black Lives
Matter protestors as “illiterate” and “low lifes”; that George Floyd’s killing
“was no murder”; telling Plaintiff and Whitney Rivers (the only black employees
in their unit) “I don’t know why everybody’s mad at the police because the
police are killing you people…it’s because y’all have an attitude problem and
don’t know when to shut up and that’s why police kill you”; “[y]’all kill each
other anyway, so I don’t see the difference”; calling black people animals and
“aggressive”; saying that black people put themselves in situations to be
killed by each other; saying that George Floyd deserved what happened to him
because he was a criminal; “Black Lives Matter is a terrorist group”; and
stating that black people protesting, “rioting,” or “looting” were “animals and
should be locked in cages.” (AMF 76.) Tobin made comments such as these
approximately once or twice a week, from May 2020 through August 2020. (AMF
76.)
 
Whether conduct is severe or pervasive must be assessed from
the perspective of a reasonable person in the same racial group. (McGinest
v. GTE Service Corp. (9th Cir. 2004) 360 F.3d 1103, 1116 [“Racially
motivated comments or actions may appear innocent or only mildly offensive to
one who is not a member of the targeted group, but in reality be intolerably
abusive or threatening when understood from the perspective of a plaintiff who
is a member of the targeted group” in analyzing Title VII racial discrimination
claim.]; see also State Dept. of Health Services v. Superior Court
(2003) 31 Cal.4th 1026, 1040 [“California courts often look to Title VII in
interpreting the FEHA”].) “The omnipresence of race-based attitudes and
experiences in the lives of black Americans causes even nonviolent events to be
interpreted as degrading, threatening, and offensive.” (Harris v.
International Paper Co. (D. Me. 1991) 765 F.Supp. 1509, 1516, vacated in
part on other grounds (D. Me. 1991) 765 F.Supp. 1529.)
 
It is true that not all of Tobin’s comments specifically
purported to be about black people. “However, the Third Circuit has explained
persuasively that “the use of ‘code words' can, under circumstances such as we
encounter here, violate Title VII.” (McGinest v. GTE Service Corp., supra,
360 F.3d at pp. 1116-1117, quoting Aman v. Cort Furniture Rental Corp.
(3d Cir. 1996) 85 F.3d 1074, 1083.) The Court finds these other courts’
analysis particularly apt – even where Tobin stated that she was talking about
protestors, rioters, or looters, a reasonable jury, and certainly a reasonable
black person, could conclude that those comments were coded words meant to
target black people based on negative stereotypes.
 
Thus, Plaintiff has created a triable issue of fact that
Tobin cause severe and pervasive racial harassment.
 
Orchestration or Acquiescence
 
          The
County argues that it did not orchestrate or acquiesce to Tobin’s harassing
conduct.
 
The County had already received at least twenty complaints
that Tobin racially harassed coworkers prior to Tobin’s harassment of
Plaintiff. (AMF 100-116.) As a result, there is a triable issue of fact that
the County was therefore well aware that Tobin had a tendency to racially
harass coworkers. Further, even after Plaintiff began complaining of Tobin’s
conduct, it took the County over a year to move Tobin to another unit, during
which time County managers repeatedly stated that it was ‘a process’ to move
Tobin and that Tobin’s standing desk made it harder to move her. (AMF 58-75,
79-83, 89-96.) Plaintiff’s evidence also adequately contests the County’s
assertion that it only became aware of Tobin’s racial comments in November
2020.
 
Even when Tobin was eventually moved out of Plaintiff’s
unit, it was because Tobin had requested to be moved. (AMF 99.) When Tobin made
this request, she was moved within one day – suggesting that moving her was
not, in fact, ‘a process.’ (AMF 99.) There is thus a triable issue of fact that
the County acquiesced to Tobin’s harassing conduct.
 
The Court therefore denies summary adjudication on this
cause of action.
 
Disparate Treatment Discrimination Based on Race – Second Cause of Action
 
A plaintiff alleging discrimination must allege “that (1) [she]
was a member of a protected class, (2) [she] was qualified for the position he
sought or was performing competently in the position he held, (3) [she]
suffered an adverse employment action, such as termination, demotion, or denial
of an available job, and (4) some other circumstance suggests discriminatory
motive.” (Guz v. Bechtel National Inc. (2000) 24 Cal.4th 317, 355.)
 
Adverse Employment Action
 
An adverse employment action must “materially affect the
terms and conditions of employment.” (Yanowitz v. L'Oreal USA, Inc.
(2005) 36 Cal.4th 1028, 1036.) “[A]dverse treatment that is reasonably likely
to impair a reasonable employee's job performance or prospects for advancement
or promotion” can constitute an adverse action. (Id. at pp. 1054-1055.)  Moreover, “workplace harassment, if
sufficiently severe or pervasive, may in and of itself constitute an adverse
employment action sufficient to satisfy . . . the prima facie case for . . .
retaliation cases.”  (Kelley v. The
Conco Companies (2011) 196 Cal.App.4th 191, 212, quotation omitted.)
 
The County contends that Plaintiff did not suffer an adverse
employment action. As explained in the Court’s November 2, 2021 minute order on
the County’s demurrer, the County’s acquiescence to Tobin’s conduct by failing
to move her for over a year was legally sufficient to constitute an adverse
employment action. The facts provided by the parties on this summary judgment
motion create a triable issue of fact on this question.
 
The County’s argument here is that its conduct did not
constitute an adverse employment action because it did not acquiesce to Tobin’s
conduct. However, as discussed above, Plaintiff has created a triable issue of
fact that the County did know of Tobin’s conduct for over a year, and
nevertheless failed to move her for that time. Thus, Plaintiff has created a
triable issue of fact that she suffered an adverse employment action.
 
 

 
Disproportionate Effect Based on Race
 
The County contends that any adverse employment action
against Plaintiff was not based on her race. However, as discussed above, there
is ample evidence that the County knew about Tobin’s racist conduct toward
Plaintiff and acquiesced to it by failing to move her and taking only minimal
action to alter her behavior, only holding a unit meeting where general
statements were made to the effect that harassment was not appropriate. For
these reasons, Plaintiff has created a triable issue of fact such that a reasonable
jury could conclude that the County’s failure to act was in part based on her
race.
 
The Court denies summary adjudication on this cause of
action.
 
Retaliation for Opposing Violations of FEHA – Third Cause of Action
 
“To establish a prima facie case of retaliation under the
[Fair Employment and Housing Act] FEHA, a plaintiff must show (1) he or she
engaged in a ‘protected activity,’ (2) the employer subjected the employee to
an adverse employment action, and (3) a causal link existed between the
protected activity and the employer’s action.” (Meeks v. Autozone, Inc. (2018) 24 Cal.App.5th 855, 878-879,
brackets omitted.) “An ‘adverse employment action,’ which is a critical
component of a retaliation claim, requires a substantial adverse change in the
terms and conditions of the plaintiff’s employment.” (Holmes v. Petrovich Development Co., LLC (2011) 191 Cal.App.4th
1047, 1063, quotation marks omitted.)
 
Adverse Employment Action
 
As discussed above under the second cause of action for
racial discrimination, Plaintiff has created a triable issue of fact that the
County did know of Tobin’s conduct for over a year, and nevertheless failed to
move her for that time or otherwise address the issue. Thus, Plaintiff has
created a triable issue of fact that she suffered an adverse employment action.
          
Connection to Protected Activity
 
As discussed above, Plaintiff repeatedly reported Tobin’s
harassing conduct to County management, and management failed to move Tobin to
a different unit despite Plaintiff’s repeated requests. Conversely, when Tobin
requested to be moved, she was moved within a day. A reasonable jury could find
that the County made these decisions in retaliation for Plaintiff’s reports.
The Court therefore denies summary adjudication on this cause of action.
 
Failure to Prevent Harassment,
Discrimination, and Retaliation – Fourth Cause of Action
 
The elements of a cause of action for failure to prevent
harassment or retaliation are: (1) actionable discrimination or harassment by
employees or nonemployees; (2) defendant’s legal duty of care toward plaintiff
(i.e., defendant is the plaintiff’s employer); (3) breach of that duty (i.e.,
failure to take all reasonable steps necessary to prevent discrimination and
harassment from occurring); (4) legal causation; and (5) damages to plaintiff.
(Trujillo v. North County Transit
District (1998) 63 Cal.App.4th 280, 287, 289; Bradley v. Department of Corrections & Rehabilitation (2008)
158 Cal.App.4th 1612, 1630; Gov. Code, § 12940.)
 
Presence of FEHA or Labor Code, Section 1102.5 Violation
 
The county contends that there was no violation of FEHA or
Labor Code, section 1102.5. However, as discussed above, there is a triable
issue of fact that Tobin’s allegedly harassing conduct violated FEHA.
 
          The
Court therefore denies summary adjudication on this cause of action.
 
Whistleblower Retaliation under
Labor Code, Section 1102.5 – Fifth Cause of Action
 
The Labor Code’s whistleblower provision prohibits an
employer from retaliating against an employee who reports a violation of state
or federal statute or a local, state or federal rule or regulation or who
refuses to participate in any activity that would result in a violation of law.
(Lab. Code § 1102.5.) To prevail on whistleblower retaliation claim, a
plaintiff must establish that their alleged protected activated was a
contributing factor in the adverse action taken against them. (Lab. Code, §
1102.5.)
 
Adverse Employment Action
 
As discussed above under the second cause of action for
racial discrimination, Plaintiff has created a triable issue of fact that the
County did know of Tobin’s conduct for over a year, and nevertheless failed to
move her for that time. Thus, Plaintiff has created a triable issue of fact
that she suffered an adverse employment action.
 
Causal Connection to Report of Legal Violation
 
As discussed above, Plaintiff repeatedly reported Tobin’s
harassing conduct to County management, and management failed to move Tobin to
a different unit despite Plaintiff’s repeated requests. Conversely, when Tobin
requested to be moved, she was moved within a day. A reasonable jury could find
that the County made these decisions in retaliation for Plaintiff’s reports. 
 
The Court therefore denies summary adjudication on this
cause of action.
 
 