 Case Number:  23VECV03921    Hearing Date:   March 26, 2024    Dept:  W BANI SHAHBAZ v.
FORD MOTOR COMPANY, et al.
 
Demurrer to
plaintiffs’ first complaint 
 
Date of Hearing:        March
26, 2024                                 Trial
Date:       None Set.
Department:              W                                                        Case No.:        23VECV03921
 
Moving Party:            Defendant Ford Motor Company 
Responding Party:     Plaintiff
Bani Shahbaz
Meet and Confer:      Yes.  (Cronin Decl. ¶¶5-7.)

 
BACKGROUND
 
This is a lemon law action which arises
from the purchase of a 2022 Ford F150. On September 7, 2023, Plaintiff filed a
complaint against Defendants Ford Motor Company and Sunnyvale Ford for Violation
of Subdivision (d) of Civil Code Section 1793.2; Violation of Subdivision (b) of
Civil Code Section 1793.2; Violation of Subdivision (a)(3) of Civil Code
Section; Breach of the Implied Warranty of Merchantability; Fraudulent
Inducement – Concealment; and Negligent Repair. On December 14, 2023, Plaintiff
filed a first amended complaint. 
 
Plaintiff alleges their vehicle had a
transmissions defect, which Defendant Ford knew about and concealed. 
 
[Tentative] Ruling
 
Defendant’s
Demurrer to the Third Cause of Action is SUSTAINED WITH LEAVE TO AMEND and
OVERRULED as to the Fifth Cause of Action. 
 
DISCUSSION
 
Defendant
Ford Motor Company demurs to the first amended complaint on the grounds the
third cause of action for Violation of Civil Code section 1793.2(a)(3) and the
fifth cause of action Fraudulent Inducement – Concealment remain defective and fail
to meet the requisite pleading requirements, despite Plaintiff having been afforded
the opportunity to cure the defects identified in Ford’s first demurrer. 
 
Third Cause
of Action
 
Civil Code section
1793.2(a)(3) requires every manufacturer of consumer good sold in this state
and for which the manufacturer has made an express warranty to make available
to authorized service and repair facilities sufficient service literature and
replacement parts to effect repairs during the express warranty period.   
 
Defendant
Ford argues despite this court’s prior ruling sustaining Ford’s previous demurrer
to this cause of action, Plaintiff’s FAC contains no new allegations to support
this claim. (See FAC at ¶¶ 54-56.) Defendant contends, instead, the FAC once
again states in a conclusory fashion that Ford failed to make available service
literature or replacement parts during the express warranty period and nothing
more. Moreover, there are no facts whatsoever to give Ford any indication of
what portion of the Civil Code section specifically was violated or how it was
violated nor are there facts alleged regarding damages. 
 
In
opposition, Plaintiff argues regarding literature or parts that Ford withheld
from its authorized repair facilities, that would be a matter for discovery.
(See Committee on Children's Television, Inc. v. General Foods Corp. (1983)
35 Cal.3d 197, 216-217, [when it appears from the nature of the allegations
that defendant must necessarily possess full information concerning the facts
of the controversy, even under strict rules of common law pleading, one of the canons
is that less particularity is required when the facts lie more in the knowledge
of the opposite party], superseded by statute on other grounds.) Moreover, the
Legislature used the word "effect" rather than "attempt" in
drafting the statute. Had the Legislature intended attempts at repair to
satisfy the statute, it could have used the word "attempt," as it did
elsewhere in the same Civil Code section. As a result, the pleadings
sufficiently put Defendant on notice as to the claim and the general type of
literature and/or replacement parts that were insufficient or not provided. 
 
The court
finds the allegations are still insufficient to support a claim under Civil
Code section 1793.2(a)(3). The new allegations include “Even after performance
of repairs based upon Defendant’s service literature and parts, Defendant’s
authorized repair facility still discovered diagnostic trouble code SSM 51310,
and contacted Defendant for further instruction.” (FAC ¶26.) However, this does
not support a contention that Ford failed to make available sufficient
service literature and replacement parts to effect repairs. By Plaintiff’s own
contentions, Ford did make available service literature; however, the
literature and/or replacement parts were insufficient to resolve the issue. The
court notes Plaintiff’s allegation “and contacted Defendant for further instruction.”
However, it is not clear from the allegations that Ford then failed to provide
any further instruction. Moreover, Plaintiff has not provided any law that Ford
can violate Civil Code section 1793.2(a)(3) by failing to develop service
literature or replacement parts to permanently fix a car.
 
Accordingly,
Defendant’s demurrer to the third cause of action is SUSTAINED WITH LEAVE TO
AMEND. 
 
Fifth Cause
of Action
 
The elements
of a claim for fraudulent concealment are: “(1) concealment or suppression of a
material fact; (2) by a defendant with a duty to disclose that fact to the plaintiff;
(3) the defendant intended to defraud the plaintiff by intentionally concealing
or suppressing the fact; (4) the plaintiff was unaware of the fact and would
not have acted as he or she did if she had known of the concealed or suppressed
fact; and (5) plaintiff sustained damages as a result of the concealment or
suppression of the fact.” (Hambrick v. Healthcare Partners Medical
Group, Inc.¿(2015) 238 Cal.App.4th 124, 162.) As a species of fraud and
deceit, such claims must be plead with specificity. (Lazar v. Superior
Court (1996) 12 Cal.4th 631, 645 (specificity means pleading the who,
where, when, what, and how).) But this rule for fraud by concealment, unlike
fraud by an affirmative misrepresentation, must be applied differently in the
case of non-disclosure because it is difficult to allege “who” or “how” or “by
what means” something was not disclosed or “when” or “where” a statement was
not made. (Alfaro v. Community Housing Imp. System & Planning
Ass’n, Inc. (2009) 171 Cal.App.4th 1356, 1384.)  Because of the nature
of such fraud and the fact such facts supporting concealment are more likely to
be known by defendant, less particularity is required.  (Id.)
 
Defendant
Ford argues Plaintiff has not pled facts supporting his fraudulent concealment
claim with the requisite specificity. Specifically, the FAC does not state any
facts to support a finding that Plaintiff relied on any communications with
Ford about the transmission. Whether or not plaintiff interacted with the sales
representative is immaterial as Plaintiff does not allege Ford sold him the
vehicle or agency. Moreover, the FAC remains vague and does not explain how the
alleged silence by Ford amounts to an affirmative act or representation about
the transmission or quality of the Subject Vehicle. Ford argues to the
contrary, Plaintiff’s claim fails because it includes an additional publicly
available Technical Service Bulletin on top of the previously alleged Technical
Service Bulletins regarding the purportedly defective 10R80 transmission.
Lastly, Plaintiff’s complaint fails to identify any individual authorized to
speak on Ford’s behalf during the sale. 
 
In
opposition, Plaintiff argues Plaintiff has sufficiently alleged the elements of
a fraudulent inducement by concealment claim under Dhital. In
particular, Plaintiff alleged he entered into a warranty contract with Ford
around January 22, 2023 (FAC ¶¶ 9-10); Plaintiff identified the material facts
Ford knew prior to his acquisition of the Subject Vehicle that Ford withheld
from Plaintiff (FAC ¶29); Plaintiff alleged that Defendant had superior
knowledge of the facts (FAC ¶¶ 30, 68, 71 a-c ); the safety risks posed by the
Transmission Defect (FAC ¶¶ 29, 67); the materiality of that information (FAC
¶¶ 73-74); Plaintiffs reliance on the non-disclosure (FAC ¶¶ 73-74); and
damages. (FAC ¶¶ 16, 23, 76-77.) Additionally, the TSBs issued by Ford to its
repair facilities illustrate the depth of Ford’s knowledge regarding the
Transmission Defect affecting its 10R80 transmission. And because TSBs contain
limited information and do not show the full extent of FORD's knowledge, these
documents do not defeat Ford’s exclusive knowledge. (In re MyFord Touch
Consumer Litigation (N.D.Cal. 2014) 46 F.Supp.3d 936, 960.)
 
The court
finds Plaintiff’s allegations sufficiently allege fraudulent concealment at
this juncture. The FAC now alleges portions of Defendant’s marketing material
for the vehicle in the FAC, identifying the material misrepresentations
Defendant made prior to, and after, the sale of the vehicle to Plaintiff. (FAC
¶64.) This along with the remaining allegations are sufficient to show
fraudulent concealment. The court notes that Plaintiff’s additional allegations
including the TSBs does not defeat Plaintiff’s contention. In Falk v.
General Motors Corp. (N.D. Cal. 2007) 496 F.Supp.2d 1088, the court noted
that while prospective purchasers may conduct an internet search prior to
purchasing a vehicle, the manufacturer is alleged to know about additional
information. Again, at this juncture and for pleading purposes, it is concluded
that Plaintiff has sufficiently alleged Ford’s exclusive knowledge of the
alleged defect. 
 
Accordingly,
Defendant’s demurrer to the fifth cause of action is OVERRULED. 