 Case Number:  24VECV01576    Hearing Date:   September 11, 2024    Dept:  T Hodges v City of LA
24VECV01576 
Tentative ruling:  Defendant’s motion for protective order:
Denied.  The court finds that the
discovery was not submitted in bad faith and that the areas of inquiry are
relevant or reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible
evidence. 
The court has considered the
grounds under CCP section 2030.040(a) which would warrant this additional
discovery.  The court finds that seeking
this same information by deposition is fraught with problems.  The defendant is an entity which means that
it would have to locate and produce one or more persons most qualified to
answer these questions.  This could
result in delay or difficulty in finding those persons and making them
available.  There is no more expediency
in using written discovery or deposition to obtain this information.  Instead, it seems more efficient to get this
information by written discovery so that the defendant can take the time to
locate this information.  The court does
not find that it would be a financial burden to respond to this discovery as
the defendant would still need to find the information for a deposition
anyway.  Finally, these are legitimate
areas of inquiry which relate to plaintiff’s case in chief and the defendant’s
affirmative defenses.  Defendant has also
failed to show how responding to the discovery will result in oppression or
undue expense.
For these reasons, the motion for
protective order is denied.
Monetary sanctions awarded
against City of Los Angeles in the sum of $1,000 for failure to meet in good
faith (CCP Section 2016.040 states as follows: “A meet and confer declaration
in support of a motion shall state facts showing a reasonable and good faith
attempt at an informal resolution of each issue presented by the motion” ) and
for failure to act with substantial justification (failure to cite to any
specific interrogatory or request for admission as being inappropriate,
irrelevant or unwarranted) payable by 9/25/2024 to the Client Trust Account of
CHEREN AND ASSOCIATES 16055 Ventura Blvd., Suite 525 Encino, California 91436
pursuant to CCP section 2023.010(i).
Clerk to give notice.