  Case Number:  23VECV00091    Hearing Date:   April 9, 2024    Dept:  W ROBIN LA DUE vs SHAHE BOYADIJAN, et al.
 
defendants’
demurrer to the SECOND amended complaint 
 
Date
of Hearing:        April 9, 2024                                      Trial
Date:       None Set  
Department:              W                                                        Case
No.:        23VECV00091
 
Moving Party:            Defendants Shahe Boyadjian and Maral
Boyadjian  
Responding Party:     No opposition.  
Meet and Confer:      Yes. (Zambrano Decl. ¶¶2-4.) 
 
BACKGROUND
 
On
January 9, 2023, Plaintiff Robin La Due filed a complaint against Defendants
Shahe Boyadjian and Maral Boyadjian. Plaintiff filed a First Amended Complaint
on August 24, 2023 for Breach of Contract, Stolen Property, and Malicious
Sabotage. Plaintiff filed a Second Amended Complaint on January 8, 2024, adding
a cause of action for Fraud on the Court. 
 
The parties have a history of litigation between them that began
prior to Plaintiffs filing the instant action. In January 2022, Boyadjian filed
a small claims action against Robin La Due to recover unpaid rent. Judgment was
ultimately entered in favor of Boyadjian, against La Due. On June 21, 2022,
Boyadjian filed an unlawful detainer action against Robin La Due stemming from
his longstanding unjustified failure to pay rent at the subject property, in
direct violation of the lease agreement. That matter was also fully litigated
and resulted in another judgment in favor of Boyadjian, against La Due.
Following those two actions by Boyadjian, Plaintiff subsequently brought two
civil actions against the Boyadjians. In
this action, Plaintiff alleges Defendants did not properly give Plaintiff
enough time to vacate the premises upon the Sheriffs arrival and left their
personal property at the unit, which Defendants have refused to return.
Plaintiff also alleges Defendant withheld Plaintiff’s security deposit. 
 
[Tentative]
Ruling
 
Defendants
Shahe Boyadjian and Maral Boyadjian Demurrer to the Second Amended Complaint is
SUSTAINED WITH LEAVE TO AMEND, IN PART. 
 
DISCUSSION
 
Defendants demur to the amended complaint on
the grounds each cause of action does not state facts sufficient to support a
claim against Defendants and is uncertain. 
 
First Cause of Action
 
Defendants demur to the first cause of action
on the grounds the Second Amended Complaint has no “rental agreement” attached
and the material terms of the “rental agreement” cannot be ascertained from the
terms set out in the pleading as the terms are not alleged. 
 
There are no attachments to the Second
Amended Complaint. Plaintiff did not amend their first cause of action
whatsoever after the demurrer to the First Amended Complaint was sustained. Since
this is only the first amended complaint after a demurrer has been sustained,
the court grants Plaintiff leave to amend. (See CCP § 430.41(e).) Plaintiff is
given one more opportunity to sufficiently plead a breach of contract claim
against Defendant. Defendant must either set out verbatim in the complaint the terms of the contract, attach the
contract to the complaint, or allege the contract by its legal effect. (McKell v. Washington Mutual, Inc. (2006)
142 Cal.App.4th 1457, 1489 [citing 4 Witkin, Cal. Proc. (4th ed. 1997)
Pleading, §§ 479-480, pp. 572-73].) Plaintiff must allege how withholding the
security deposit was a breach of the agreement between Plaintiff and Defendant
and how Plaintiff has been damaged by the breach. 
 
The court notes the
complaint Plaintiff alleges Defendant kept the security deposit in violation of
the Los Angeles City Moratorium. However, this is not grounds for a breach of
contract. If Plaintiff wishes to allege Defendant violated Civil Code section 1950.5
or the City Moratorium, Plaintiff must seek leave to amend by filing a motion.
See California Rules of Court, Rule 3.1324. 
 
Accordingly,
Defendants’ demurrer to the first cause of action is SUSTAINED WITH LEAVE TO
AMEND. 
 
Second Cause
of Action
 
Defendants demur to
the second cause of action on the grounds the complaint does not identify the
property but only sets forth a sum of money and moreover, has not shown
Plaintiff’s right to possession. 
 
The Second Amended
Complaint alleges Defendants caused damages to Plaintiffs in the amount of
$252,726 or alternatively, Plaintiff will take the personal property back after
deduction of value loss, missing pieces, condition, and so on. Plaintiff also
references an Exhibit 5, but there are no exhibits attached to the complaint. 
 
As alleged,
Plaintiff has not sufficiently demonstrated conversion of stolen property.
Since this action involves allegations of conversion of Plaintiff’s personal
property from the premises after a judgment in unlawful detainer, Code of Civil
Procedure section 1174 applies. Paragraph (h) of 1174 states in relevant part
that “[t]he landlord shall release the personal property pursuant to Section
1965 of the Civil Code or shall release it to the tenant...if the tenant...pays
the costs of storage as provided in Section 1990 of the Civil Code and claims
the property not later than the date specified in the writ of possession before
which the tenant must make his or her claim...” 
 
There are no
allegations Plaintiff gave notice or paid the cost of storage. Accordingly,
Defendants’ demurrer to the second cause of action is SUSTAINED WITH LEAVE TO
AMEND. Plaintiff
is given one more opportunity to sufficiently plead a conversion claim against
Defendant.
 
Third Cause
of Action
 
Defendants demur to
the third cause of action for ‘malicious sabotage’ on the grounds it is unclear
what the cause of action is that is alleged against defendants and moreover, Defendants
committed no act which was wrongful.
 
The court agrees.
There is no malicious sabotage cause of action. Plaintiff cites to Penal Code
section 594. Penal Code section 594 is in reference to property that is defaced
with graffiti, damaged, or destroyed. It is unclear what Plaintiff is alleging.
Again, if Plaintiff is claiming Defendants knowingly destroyed Plaintiff’s
business, Plaintiff has not alleged sufficient facts to show an (1) an economic
relationship between the plaintiff and a third party which contained a
reasonably probable future economic benefit or advantage to plaintiff; (2)
defendant knew of the existence of the relationship and was aware or should
have been aware that if it did not act with due care its actions would
interfere with this relationship and cause plaintiff to lose in whole or in
part the probable future economic benefit or advantage of the relationship; (3)
defendant was negligent; and (4) such negligence caused damage to plaintiff in
that the relationship was actually interfered with or disrupted and plaintiff
lost in whole or in part the economic benefits or advantage reasonably expected
from the relationship. (North American Chemical Co. v. Superior Court
(1997) 59 Cal.App.4th 764, 786.)
 
Accordingly,
Defendants’ demurrer to the third cause of action is SUSTAINED WITH LEAVE TO
AMEND. Plaintiff
is given one more opportunity to sufficiently plead an interference with
prospective economic advantage claim against Defendant. 
 
Fourth Cause
of Action
 
Defendants demur to
the fourth cause of action for fraud on the court on the grounds Plaintiff did
not seek leave to add this cause of action and moreover, it is uncertain. 
 
The court agrees. Following
an order sustaining a demurrer or a motion for judgment on the pleadings with
leave to amend, the plaintiff may amend his or her complaint only as authorized
by the court’s order.” (Harris v. Wachovia Mortg., FSB (2010) 185
Cal.App.4th 1018, 1023.) The court did not authorize the adding of the new
cause of action. Plaintiff must seek leave of the court before adding a cause
of action.  Moreover, “fraud on the
court” is not a cognizable cause of action.
 
Accordingly,
Defendants’ demurrer to the fourth cause of action is SUSTAINED WITHOUT LEAVE
TO AMEND. 
 