


[1]
This would be a Second Amended Third-Party Complaint.
 


[2]
The court is not entertained by counsel’s hypothetical discussion between
Trustees and their counsel. (Opp. at 10:22-11:10.) “Personal attacks on the character
or motives of the adverse party, his counsel or his witnesses are misconduct.”
(Bigler-Engler v. Breg, Inc. (2017) 7
Cal.App.5th 276, 295.) While the court appreciates zealous advocacy, it
cautions against such attacks and superfluous pop culture references.
 


[3]
The court acknowledges that it previously indicated that the Trustees needed to
comply with CRC, Rule 3.1324 and formally move for leave to amend their
third-party complaint to include new causes of action. Although not required
under Alacer, there does appear to be
substantial compliance with the rules of court. First, the motion includes the
proposed amended pleading. (CRC, Rule 3.1324(a)(1).) Second, the motion
includes a redlined copy of the proposed amended pleading indicating the new allegations
and any deleted allegations. (CRC, Rule 3.1324(a)(2)-(3).) As to compliance
with the declaration pursuant to Rule 3.1324(b), the effect of the proposed
Third Amended TPC is to add additional, specific factual allegations which
address the deficiencies identified at the July 27, 2023 and November 17, 2023
demurrer hearings and to support additional causes of action for Fraud,
Conspiracy to Defraud, Aiding & Abetting Fraud, Conspiracy to Breach
Fiduciary Duties, Aiding & Abetting Breach of Fiduciary Duties, and
Conversion. (Davis Decl., ¶ 3.) The amendment is proper because leave to amend
is liberally granted and it is necessary to add additional allegations, add
clarity about which allegations are directed to which Pierotti family member,
and to add additional causes of action supported by the additional allegations.
(Davis Decl. ¶ 4.) The original request for amendment was on October 9, 2023.
(Davis Decl. ¶ 12.) Only CRC, Rule 31324(b)(3) concerning when the facts were
discovered is at issue. According to Trustees, the facts giving rise to the
amended allegations were discovered during communications between counsel and
the clients on August 2, 11, and 15, 2023.[3]
(Davis Decl. ¶ 5.) However, the declaration goes on to state the Trustees
related to their counsel that Roy Biondi communicated the facts of his trust to
them and other family members upon formation of the Trust before his death.
(Davis Decl. ¶ 9.) The only new facts are that Roy Biondi transferred his
interest into his revocable trust as well as the details and timing of
communications between Trustees and Third-Party Defendants.[3]
(Davis Decl. ¶ 11.) The court is not persuaded that these are new facts instead
of more concisely articulated existing facts. Even so, since the new causes of
action advanced by the proposed Third Amended TPC “arise[] from the same basic
facts” as those originally plead, rather than “facts which give rise to a
wholly distinct and different legal obligation against the defendant,” the
court has the power to permit the amendment. (Herrera v. Superior Court (1984) 158 Cal.App.3d 255, 259.) As such,
there Defendants Peter, Aptco, and Anna-Marie are not likely prejudiced by
allowing the amendment. The remaining arguments as to sham pleading and statute
of limitations are discussed with the pending Demurrer. (See Atkinson v. Elk Corp. (2003) 109
Cal.App.4th 739, 760 [allowing an amendment that can be tested at demurrer.]) 
 
 


[4]
As noted in the parties’ stipulation, these arguments are from the briefing
from October 2023. There is no pending motion to strike.
 


[5]
Along those lines, the Trustees argue that the delayed discovery rule applies
to them even if they had all of the information available to conduct an
investigation. Indeed, the Trustees argue that the public records on which
Moving Defendants rely show that Ossi and Anna Marie Pierotti granted certain
optionees the option to purchase the Property, not notice of $37 million fraud.
(Opp. 7:16-20.) 
 


[6]
Moving Defendants also argue that the Trustees are estopped from making this
argument anyway because they successfully asserted that Roy Biondi was a
partner in their motion to intervene. 
 


[7]The
court acknowledges that the email requesting payment of taxes was from 2015.
Nonetheless, the allegations must be read in conjunction with  the allegation of continued payment of taxes
for years after Biondi’s death and proof that payment was requested two years
after Biondi’s death in 2013..


[8]The court recognizes that a confidential relationship
may not rise to the level of a fiduciary relationship but that is a question to
be resolved at a later stage when sufficiency of proof can be challenged, not today
at the pleading stage, where the only issue is the sufficiency of the
allegations. 


[9]
As with the fraud causes of action, the analysis for the sixth cause of action
also applies to the Seventh and Eighth Causes of Action for Conspiracy to
Breach Fiduciary Duties and Aiding & Abetting Breach of Fiduciary Duties.
 


[10]
Moving Defendants demurrer to the Third, Fourth, and Fifth Causes of Action for
failure to sufficiently plead reliance, too. The court adopts its analysis
under the Second Cause of Action to these causes of action.
 

