 Case Number:  22STCV28808    Hearing Date:   November 7, 2024    Dept:  28 Having  considered the moving, opposition, and reply papers, the Court rules as  follows.  BACKGROUND  On  September 6, 2022, Plaintiff Danielle Penberthy  (“Plaintiff”) filed this action against Defendants Jason Jean Karlo Lara Garcia  (“Garcia”), Postmates LLC, and Does 1-100 for negligence, negligence  entrustment, and negligent hiring, supervision, and retention.  On  November 4, 2022, Defendant Portier, LLC, erroneously sued as Postmates LLC (“Portier”), filed an answer.  On November 23, 2022,  the Court dismissed Portier without prejudice at Plaintiff’s request.  On  December 2, 2022, Defendant Blue Hill Specialty Insurance Company (“Intervenor”)  filed an answer-in-intervention to protect the interests of its insured,  Garcia.  On May 13, 2024, the Court  granted the parties’ stipulation to withdraw Intervenor’s  answer-in-intervention.  On  April 4, 2024, Garcia filed an answer.  On  September 12, 2024, Plaintiff filed a motion to quash Garcia’s deposition  subpoena issued to Women’s Care of Beverly Hills  and for sanctions.  The motion was set  for hearing on November 7, 2024.  On  October 25, 2024, Garcia filed an opposition and request for sanctions.  On October 31, 2024, Plaintiff filed a reply.  Trial  is currently set for February 5, 2025.  PARTIES’ REQUESTS  Plaintiff  asks the Court to quash the deposition subpoena for production of records which  Garcia served on Women’s Care of Beverly Hills (“Women’s Care”) and to impose  sanctions on Garcia’s counsel.  Garcia  asks the Court to deny the motion and to impose sanctions on Plaintiff.  LEGAL STANDARD  Code  of Civil Procedure section 1987.1 provides:  "(a) If a subpoena requires the attendance of a  witness or the production of books, documents, electronically stored  information, or other things before a court, or at the trial of an issue  therein, or at the taking of a deposition, the court, upon motion reasonably  made by any person described in subdivision (b), or upon the court’s own motion  after giving counsel notice and an opportunity to be heard, may make an order  quashing the subpoena entirely, modifying it, or directing compliance with it upon  those terms or conditions as the court shall declare, including protective  orders. In addition, the court may make any other order as may be appropriate  to protect the person from unreasonable or oppressive demands, including  unreasonable violations of the right of privacy of the person.  "(b) The following persons may make a motion  pursuant to subdivision (a): (1) A party. (2) A witness. (3) A consumer  described in Section 1985.3. (4) An employee described in Section 1985.6. (5) A  person whose personally identifying information, as defined in subdivision (b)  of Section 1798.79.8 of the Civil Code, is sought in connection with an  underlying action involving that person’s exercise of free speech rights."  (Code Civ. Proc., § 1987.1.)  Code  of Civil Procedure section 1985.3, subdivision (g), provides in part:  “(g)  Any  consumer whose personal records are sought by a subpoena duces tecum and who is  a party to the civil action in which this subpoena duces tecum is served may,  prior to the date for production, bring a motion under Section 1987.1 to quash  or modify the subpoena duces tecum. Notice of the bringing of that motion shall  be given to the witness and deposition officer at least five days prior to  production. The failure to provide notice to the deposition officer shall not  invalidate the motion to quash or modify the subpoena duces tecum but may be  raised by the deposition officer as an affirmative defense in any action for  liability for improper release of records.  * * * “No witness or  deposition officer shall be required to produce personal records after receipt  of notice that the motion has been brought by a consumer . . . except upon  order of the court in which the action is pending or by agreement of the  parties, witnesses, and consumers affected. . . .”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 1985.3,  subd. (g).)  Code  of Civil Procedure section 1987.2, subdivision (a), provides:  “Except as specified in subdivision (c), in making an  order pursuant to motion made under subdivision (c) of Section 1987 or under  Section 1987.1, the court may in its discretion award the amount of the  reasonable expenses incurred in making or opposing the motion, including  reasonable attorney’s fees, if the court finds the motion was made or opposed  in bad faith or without substantial justification or that one or more of the  requirements of the subpoena was oppressive.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 1987.2,  subd. (a).)  For  discovery purposes, information is relevant if it might reasonably assist a  party in evaluating the case, preparing for trial, or facilitating settlement.  (Gonzalez v. Superior Court (1995) 33 Cal.App.4th 1539, 1546.)  When  a party seeks discovery which impacts a person’s constitutional right to  privacy, limited protections come into play. (Shaffer v. Superior Court  (1995) 33 Cal.App.4th 993, 999.) The protections cover a person’s personal and  financial matters. (Ibid.) The court must balance competing rights — the  litigant’s right to discover relevant facts and the individual’s right to  maintain reasonable privacy — in determining whether the information is  discoverable. (Ibid.)  “  ‘[W]hile the filing of a lawsuit may implicitly bring about a partial waiver of  one’s constitutional right of associational privacy, the scope of such “waiver”  must be narrowly rather than expansively construed, so that plaintiffs will not  be unduly deterred from instituting lawsuits by the fear of exposure of their  private associational affiliations and activities.’ [Citation.] Therefore, . .  . an implicit waiver of a party’s constitutional rights encompasses only  discovery directly relevant to the plaintiff’s claim and essential to the fair  resolution of the lawsuit.” (Vinson v. Superior Court (1987) 43 Cal.3d  833, 842; see ibid. [“On occasion [a party's] privacy interests may have  to give way to [the] opponent's right to a fair trial. Thus courts must balance  the right of civil litigants to discover relevant facts against the privacy  interests of persons subject to discovery”].)  “[A]lthough  in seeking recovery for physical and mental injuries plaintiffs have  unquestionably waived their physician-patient and psychotherapist-patient  privileges as to all information concerning the medical conditions which they  have put in issue, past cases make clear that such waiver extends only to  information relating to the medical conditions in question, and does not  automatically open all of a plaintiff's past medical history to scrutiny.” (Britt  v. Superior Court (1978) 20 Cal.3d 844, 849 [trial court erred by placing  “absolutely no limit on defendant's efforts to obtain wholesale disclosure of  each plaintiff's lifetime medical history”].) “[P]laintiffs are ‘not obligated  to sacrifice all privacy to seek redress for a specific [physical,] mental or  emotional injury’; while they may not withhold information which relates to any  physical or mental condition which they have put in issue by bringing this  lawsuit, they are entitled to retain the confidentiality of all unrelated  medical or psychotherapeutic treatment they may have undergone in the past.” (Id.  at p. 864, fn. omitted.)  “Even  when discovery of private information is found directly relevant to the issues  of ongoing litigation, it will not be automatically allowed; there must then be  a careful balancing of the compelling public need for discovery against the  fundamental right of privacy. [Citation.] The scope of any disclosure must be  narrowly circumscribed, drawn with narrow specificity, and must proceed by the  least intrusive manner. [Citation.]” (Davis v. Superior Court (1992) 7  Cal.App.4th 1008, 1014.)  DISCUSSION  A.   The complaint  The  complaint alleges that on May 12, 2022, on Beverly  Boulevard near San Vicente Boulevard in Los Angeles, Garcia negligently drove  his automobile into the right side of Plaintiff’s motorcycle, injuring  Plaintiff.  B.   The subpoena for medical records  On August 16, 2024, Garcia served a deposition subpoena  asking Women’s Care for the following:  “Any and all documents and medical records, and all  writings, including, but not limited to, all office, emergency room, inpatient,  outpatient, and hospital charts and records; any and all radiology materials  and films, X-rays, MRI’s, and CT scans (a complete list of [sic]  breakdown from your film library must be provided prior to production of  requested films); any and all billing charges and insurance records, billing  records, explanation of benefits (EOBs), billing off-sets, write-offs, records  of payment, amounts paid, and amounts adjusted, including any and all  electronically stored documents and files, pertaining to the care, treatment,  and examination of [Plaintiff].”  (Exh.  A.)  C.   Plaintiff’s motion to quash  Plaintiff  asks the Court to quash the deposition subpoena, arguing it seeks obstetric and  gynecological records that are irrelevant to the case, violating her privacy  rights.  According to Plaintiff, Women’s  Care has provided obstetric and  gynecological care since 2022 but has not treated Plaintiff for the injuries to  her neck, back, and head (traumatic brain injury and spinal injuries) resulting  from the accident.  However, Plaintiff admits  that she discussed her post-accident physical pain with her Women’s Care obstetrician,  Dr. Labrant.  D.   Garcia’s opposition  Garcia  asserts that he issued a subpoena to Women’s Care based on Plaintiff’s  deposition testimony that, during her pregnancy, she discussed her physical  complaints of pain with Dr. Labrant, who recommended acupuncture.  Plaintiff also testified that she suffered  pain during her pregnancy due to the accident and, as a result, Plaintiff “continued  pain management throughout the entire pregnancy with more visits [to the acupuncturist].”  (Opposition p. 3.)  In response  to Plaintiff’s objection, Garcia has offered to limit the subpoena to exclude  any pre-accident records or records after Plaintiff gave birth, but Plaintiff  rejected the offer.  E.   Analysis  The  Court has considered the parties’ arguments and weighed Plaintiff’s privacy  rights against Garcia’s right to seek discoverable information.  The Court concludes that the subpoena is  overbroad to the extent that it is not limited in time or in subject matter.  Garcia  seeks information about the pain Plaintiff experienced (1) due to the accident  and (2) before the birth of her child.   The Court therefore limits the time period covered by the subpoena to  the period from May 12, 2022 (the date of the accident) to the date Plaintiff gave birth to her child.  In addition, the Court  limits the subpoena to include only documents and records involving  Plaintiff's complaints of pain in her neck, back, and head, any treatment recommended or provided for that pain, and any resulting billing information.  With  these limitations, the Court finds that the subpoena does not violate  Plaintiff’s privacy rights.  Therefore,  in all other respects, the Court denies the motion.  CONCLUSION  The  Court GRANTS in part Plaintiff Danielle Penberthy’s motion  to quash the deposition subpoena which Defendant Jason Jean Karlo Lara Garcia  issued to Women’s Care of Beverly Hills  on August 16, 2024.          The  Court limits the time period covered by the subpoena to the period from May 12,  2022 (the date of the accident) to the date Plaintiff Danielle Penberthy gave birth to her child.  In addition, the Court limits the subpoena to  include only documents and records involving Plaintiff Danielle Penberthy's complaints of pain in her neck, back, and head, any treatment recommended or provided for that pain, and any resulting billing information.   In  all other respects, the Court DENIES the motion.  Moving  party is ordered to give notice of this ruling.  Moving  party is ordered to file the proof of service of this ruling with the Court  within five days.