  Case Number:  21STCV38573    Hearing Date:   November 7, 2024    Dept:  28 Having
considered the moving, opposition, and reply papers, the Court rules as
follows. 
BACKGROUND 
On
October 19, 2021, Plaintiff Maria Socorro Ortega (“Plaintiff”) filed this
action against Defendants McDonald’s Restaurants of California, Inc.,
McDonald’s USA, LLC, and Does 1-50 for general negligence and premises
liability. 
On
November 23, 2021, Defendant McDonald's Restaurants of California, Inc. filed
an answer.  On November 29, 2021,
Defendant McDonald’s USA, LLC filed an answer. 
On September
18, 2024, Plaintiff filed a motion to compel Defendant McDonald’s Restaurants
of California, Inc. (“Defendant”) to produce witnesses for deposition.  The motion was set for hearing on November 7,
2024.  On October 30, 2024, Defendant
filed a late opposition.  (The Court
exercises its discretion to consider the late opposition.)  Also on October 30, 2024, Plaintiff filed a
reply. 
Trial
is currently scheduled for January 24, 2025. 
PARTIES’ REQUESTS 
Plaintiff
asks the Court to order Defendant to produce a person most qualified to testify
about subjects listed in Plaintiff's deposition notice. 
Defendant
asks the Court to deny the motion. 
LEGAL STANDARD 
Code
of Civil Procedure section 2025.450 provides in part: 
“(a) If, after service of a deposition notice, a party
to the action or an officer, director, managing agent, or employee of a party,
or a person designated by an organization that is a party under Section
2025.230, without having served a valid objection under
Section 2025.410, fails to appear for examination, or to proceed with it,
or to produce for inspection any document, electronically stored information,
or tangible thing described in the deposition notice, the party giving the
notice may move for an order compelling the deponent’s attendance and
testimony, and the production for inspection of any document, electronically
stored information, or tangible thing described in the deposition notice. 
“(b) A motion under subdivision (a) shall comply with
both of the following: 
“(1) The motion shall set
forth specific facts showing good cause justifying the production for
inspection of any document, electronically stored information, or tangible
thing described in the deposition notice. 
“(2) The motion shall be accompanied by a meet and
confer declaration under Section 2016.040, or, when the deponent fails to
attend the deposition and produce the documents, electronically stored
information, or things described in the deposition notice, by a declaration
stating that the petitioner has contacted the deponent to inquire about the
nonappearance. 
* * *
“(g) (1) If a motion under subdivision (a) is granted,
the court shall impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with
Section 2023.010) in favor of the party who noticed the deposition and against
the deponent or the party with whom the deponent is affiliated, unless the
court finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial
justification or that other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction
unjust. 
“(2) On motion of any other party who, in person or by
attorney, attended at the time and place specified in the deposition notice in
the expectation that the deponent’s testimony would be taken, the court shall
impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010)
in favor of that party and against the deponent or the party with whom the
deponent is affiliated, unless the court finds that the one subject to the
sanction acted with substantial justification or that other circumstances make
the imposition of the sanction unjust.” 
(Code Civ.
Proc., § 2025.450, subds. (a), (b), (g).)   
DISCUSSION 
A.   The complaint 
Plaintiff’s
complaint alleges that on November 5, 2019, at 555 E. Hardy Street, in
Inglewood, California, Plaintiff slipped and fell on liquid that was on the
floor, suffering injuries. 
B.   Plaintiff’s motion 
Plaintiff admits
that Defendant produced a witness, Maria Pedraza (“Pedraza”), to testify as its person most qualified about certain categories of information at a deposition
on October 23, 2024.  However, according
to Plaintiff, Pedraza lacked knowledge about the subjects listed in the
deposition notice and was not, in fact, Defendant’s person most qualified on
these subjects.  Therefore, Plaintiff
asks the Court to order Defendant to produce another person most qualified. 
In
opposition, Defendant asserts that (1) Pedraza, the current general manager of
the McDonald’s location where the accident occurred, had reviewed documents
about the incident before her deposition and therefore was a person most
qualified and (2) Defendant has agreed to produce Jose Miguel, the employee who
mopped the floors on the date of the incident, as another person most qualified
at a deposition on November 4, 2024. 
Plaintiff’s
reply does not mention Defendant’s agreement to produce Jose Miguel for a
person most qualified deposition on November 4, 2024.  In addition, Plaintiff has not informed the
Court whether the deposition scheduled for November 4, 2024 took place. 
Plaintiff has
not shown that Defendant failed to produce a person most qualified about the
subjects listed in the deposition notice. 
The Court denies the motion. 
CONCLUSION 
The Court DENIES Plaintiff Maria Socorro
Ortega’s motion to
compel Defendant McDonald’s Restaurants of California, Inc., to produce its
person most qualified to testify about subjects listed in the deposition
notice. 
Moving
party is ordered to give notice of this ruling. 
Moving
party is ordered to file the proof of service of this ruling with the Court
within five days.