 Case Number:  22STCV20019    Hearing Date:   November 7, 2024    Dept:  28 Having  considered the moving, opposition, and reply papers, the Court rules as  follows.   BACKGROUND   On  June 20, 2022, Plaintiff Amanda Montano (“Plaintiff”) filed this action against  Defendants Los Angeles County Metropolitan  Transportation Authority (“Metro”) and Does 1-100 for motor vehicle tort  and general negligence.  On  February 21, 2024, Plaintiff amended the complaint to include Defendant Joseph  Aquino (“Aquino”) as Doe 1.  On  July 27, 2022, Metro filed an answer.  On  December 19, 2023, Plaintiff filed a motion to compel Metro to produce its  employee Joseph Aquino to attend a deposition and testify. The motion was set  to be heard on March 20, 2024. On March 6, 2024, Metro filed an opposition. On  March 13, 2024, Plaintiff filed a reply. On March 20, 2024, the Court issued an  order noting that while Metro was willing to provide Aquino for a deposition,  he was on a medical leave. The Court continued the hearing to May 28, 2024 and  ordered Metro to provide an update on when Aquino would be available for  deposition.  On  April 25, 2024, the Court dismissed Aquino without prejudice at Plaintiff’s  request.  On  May 24, 2024, Metro filed a supplemental response asserting that Aquino was  still on medical leave, was unable to endure a deposition, and was hopeful that  he would return to work in August 2024. Metro submitted its attorney’s  declaration to support the supplemental response and asked the Court to  continue the hearing for 90 days.  On  May 28, 2024, Plaintiff filed a response arguing that the attorney declaration  attached to Metro’s May 24, 2024 supplemental response did not show the  attorney could competently testify about Aquino’s ability to testify. Plaintiff  also asserted that sub rosa surveillance showed “a man identified as Joseph  Aquino engaged in a variety of activities, including carrying objects, driving  an automobile, and other activities” who “displays no sign that to a lay  observer . . . would indicate weakness, illness, or incapacity of any kind,  i.e., any justification for ‘medical leave’.” Plaintiff charged that Metro was  claiming Aquino was on medical leave as a ploy or pretext to avoid a  deposition. Plaintiff asked the Court to deny Metro’s request for a  continuance, to compel Metro to produce Aquino for a deposition, and to impose  sanctions.  On  May 28, 2024, the Court issued a tentative ruling, heard argument, and  continued the hearing to July 10, 2024.  On  July 3, 2024, Metro filed its counsel’s declaration stating that on July 2,  2024, Aquino told Metro’s counsel (1) he is still on medical leave and expects  to return to work in or around January 2025, (2) due to health concerns, he  could not attend a deposition before he returns to work, and (3) he would be  available for a deposition in February 2025.  On  July 10, 2024, the Court issued a tentative ruling, heard argument, and  continued the hearing to August 28, 2024.  On  August 21, 2024, Metro filed a supplemental response in support of its  opposition to Plaintiff’s motion to compel Aquino’s deposition.  On August  28, 2024, the Court granted Plaintiff’s motion to compel Metro to produce Aquino  for deposition, ordered Metro to produce Aquino for deposition within 30 days,  and imposed sanctions on Metro.  On  September 25, 2024, Metro filed a motion to continue the trial.  The motion was set for hearing on November 7,  2024. On October 23, 2024, Metro’s counsel filed a declaration supporting Metro’s  motion to continue the trial.  On October  25, 2024, Plaintiff filed an opposition.   On October 31, 2024, Metro filed a reply.  On  October 3, 2024, the Court denied Metro’s ex parte application to continue the  trial.  The Court stated that, while the  ex parte application asserted that Aquino was recovering from surgery and  therefore could not participate in trial, “Metro has provided no evidence to  support the assertion. Metro has provided only counsel's hearsay statement that  ‘Our office has been advised that unfortunately, Mr. Aquino has been  experiencing serious health issues that will make him unable to take part in  the defense of the case.’ ”  Trial  is currently scheduled for November 20, 2024.  LEGAL STANDARD  A.   Motion to continue trial  California  Rules of Court, rule 3.1332 provides:  “(a) Trial dates are firm  “To ensure the prompt disposition of civil cases, the  dates assigned for a trial are firm. All parties and their counsel must regard  the date set for trial as certain.  “(b) Motion or application  “A party seeking a continuance of the date set for  trial, whether contested or uncontested or stipulated to by the parties, must  make the request for a continuance by a noticed motion or an ex parte  application under the rules in chapter 4 of this division, with supporting  declarations. The party must make the motion or application as soon as  reasonably practical once the necessity for the continuance is discovered.  “(c) Grounds for continuance  “Although continuances of trials are disfavored, each  request for a continuance must be considered on its own merits. The court may  grant a continuance only on an affirmative showing of good cause requiring the  continuance. Circumstances that may indicate good cause include:  “(1)  The  unavailability of an essential lay or expert witness because of death, illness,  or other excusable circumstances;  “(2)  The  unavailability of a party because of death, illness, or other excusable  circumstances;  “(3)  The  unavailability of trial counsel because of death, illness, or other excusable  circumstances;  “(4)  The  substitution of trial counsel, but only where there is an affirmative showing  that the substitution is required in the interests of justice;  “(5)  The  addition of a new party if:  “(A)  The new  party has not had a reasonable opportunity to conduct discovery and prepare for  trial; or  “(B)  The other  parties have not had a reasonable opportunity to conduct discovery and prepare  for trial in regard to the new party's involvement in the case;  “(6)  A party's  excused inability to obtain essential testimony, documents, or other material  evidence despite diligent efforts; or  “(7)  A  significant, unanticipated change in the status of the case as a result of  which the case is not ready for trial.  “(d) Other factors to be considered  “In ruling on a motion or application for continuance,  the court must consider all the facts and circumstances that are relevant to  the determination. These may include:  “(1)  The  proximity of the trial date;  “(2)  Whether  there was any previous continuance, extension of time, or delay of trial due to  any party;  “(3)  The length  of the continuance requested;  “(4)  The  availability of alternative means to address the problem that gave rise to the  motion or application for a continuance;  “(5)  The  prejudice that parties or witnesses will suffer as a result of the continuance;  “(6)  If the  case is entitled to a preferential trial setting, the reasons for that status  and whether the need for a continuance outweighs the need to avoid delay;  “(7)  The  court's calendar and the impact of granting a continuance on other pending  trials;  “(8)  Whether  trial counsel is engaged in another trial;  “(9)  Whether  all parties have stipulated to a continuance;  “(10)  Whether  the interests of justice are best served by a continuance, by the trial of the  matter, or by imposing conditions on the continuance; and  “(11)  Any other  fact or circumstance relevant to the fair determination of the motion or  application.”  (Cal. Rules of Court, rule  3.1332.)  B.   Motion to continue or reopen discovery Code of Civil Procedure section 2024.020 provides:  “(a) Except  as otherwise provided in this chapter, any party shall be entitled as a matter  of right to complete discovery proceedings on or before the 30th day, and to  have motions concerning discovery heard on or before the 15th day, before the  date initially set for the trial of the action.  “(b) Except as provided in Section 2024.050, a continuance or  postponement of the trial date does not operate to reopen discovery  proceedings.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2024.020.)  Code of Civil Procedure section 2024.050 provides:  “(a) On  motion of any party, the court may grant leave to complete discovery  proceedings, or to have a motion concerning discovery heard, closer to the  initial trial date, or to reopen discovery after a new trial date has been set.  This motion shall be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration under Section  2016.040.  “(b) In  exercising its discretion to grant or deny this motion, the court shall take  into consideration any matter relevant to the leave requested, including, but  not limited to, the following:  “(1) The  necessity and the reasons for the discovery.  “(2) The  diligence or lack of diligence of the party seeking the discovery or the  hearing of a discovery motion, and the reasons that the discovery was not  completed or that the discovery motion was not heard earlier.  “(3) Any  likelihood that permitting the discovery or hearing the discovery motion will  prevent the case from going to trial on the date set, or otherwise interfere  with the trial calendar, or result in prejudice to any other party.  “(4) The  length of time that has elapsed between any date previously set, and the date  presently set, for the trial of the action.  “(c) The  court shall impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with Section  2023.010) against any party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or  opposes a motion to extend or to reopen discovery, unless it finds that the one  subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other  circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.”  (Code Civ. Proc., §  2024.050.)  DISCUSSION  A.   Metro’s motion to continue the trial to April 8, 2025  Metro  asks the Court to continue the trial to April 8, 2025 or the next available  date and continue “all related cut-off dates” because Aquino, who operated the  bus involved in the accident at issue, “has been experiencing serious health  issues that will make him unable to take part in the defense of the case.”  (Motion pp. 2, 4.)   According to  Metro, “Mr. Aquino has been battling lung cancer and is still recovering from a  surgery which included removal of part of his lung. He cannot sit for a trial  on the trial date currently scheduled.  Further, Mr. Aquino is currently on  medical leave from his employment with Metro.”   (Motion p. 5.)  To  support Metro’s assertion that Aquino’s medical condition prevents him from  attending the trial until April 2025, Metro’s counsel submitted a declaration  containing hearsay statements from Aquino and his oncologist.  (Yehoshua 9/25/24 dec. ¶ 5.)  Metro has not submitted a declaration from a  medical professional stating that Aquino cannot attend a trial until April 2025  due to his medical condition.  Plaintiff  opposes the motion, arguing that Metro has provided no admissible evidence to  support its assertion that Aquino’s medical condition prevents him from  attending the trial until April 2025.  The  Court has previously raised the lack of support for Metro’s contention that  Aquino’s medical condition prevents him from being deposed or attending the  trial.  (See 8/28/24 minute order pp.  7-8; 10/3/24 minute order p. 2.)  But  Metro still has provided no admissible evidence supporting its position or  offered a reason for its failure to provide this evidence.    Metro  has the burden of establishing good cause for the continuance it is  requesting.  Metro has not carried this  burden.  The Court therefore denies Metro’s  request to continue the trial to April 8, 2025.  B.   Metro’s request for a “short continuance” to accommodate  its expert’s schedule  On  October 23, 2024, Metro’s counsel filed a declaration stating that he was  recently informed that “defendants' accident reconstructionist expert, Thomas  Lugger, will be unavailable November 7, 2024-November 22, 2024.”  In addition to Metro’s request for a  continuance to April 8, 2025, Metro therefore seeks “a short continuance of the  trial date” to accommodate its expert’s schedule.  (Yehoshua 10/23/24 dec. ¶ 3.)  The  Court finds good cause and continues the trial to November 24, 2024 or the next  available date.  The Court does not  continue or reopen discovery or related deadlines.  CONCLUSION  The  Court DENIES Defendant Los Angeles County  Metropolitan Transportation Authority’s motion to continue the trial to April  8, 2025 or the next available date and to continue related cut-off dates.  The  Court GRANTS Defendant Los Angeles County Metropolitan Transportation  Authority’s request for a “short continuance” of the trial.  The Court continues the trial to November 25,  2024 or the next available date.  The  Court does not continue or reopen discovery or related deadlines.  Moving  party is ordered to give notice of this ruling.  Moving  party is ordered to file proof of service of this ruling with the Court within  five days.