 Case Number:  23STCV02219    Hearing Date:   September 26, 2023    Dept:  30 BRANDON DARNELL SAVAGE, et al. vs ANGEL RICARDO ESCALANTE, et al.DemurrerRuling:  Defendant's Demurrer to the 4th Cause of Action to the First Amended Complaint is sustained with leave to amend within 20 days of notice of ruling. The Motion to Strike is granted with leave to amend within 20 days of notice of ruling. Moving party to give notice.Ruling:  DEMURRER - Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress:The FAC alleges that Defendants’ action and conduct following the collision was extreme and outrageous. (FAC ¶ 30.) The FAC states that the large force of the rear-end impact created by Defendant Escalante, and DOES 51 to 100’s large box truck was transferred directly to Plaintiffs’ vehicle and that it is reasonable and foreseeable for any person to realize that Plaintiffs were severely injured in this collision. Despite and while witnessing the damage caused by Defendants, they fled from the scene to escape liability. (Id.) Plaintiffs allege that Defendants acted with reckless disregard of the probability that Plaintiffs would suffer severe emotional distress, including suffering, anguish, fright, horror, nervousness, grief anxiety, worry, shock, humiliation, and shame, and severe emotional elevated state, knowing that Plaintiffs were present, experiencing and witnessing when Defendant Escalante, and Does 51 to 100’s conduct and action described herein were occurring. (Id. ¶ 31.) Plaintiffs allege they are entitled to punitive and exemplary damages based on Defendants’ actions which show actual malice and/or with a reckless disregard to Plaintiffs’ mental and physical injuries, health, and safety to everyone, including the Plaintiffs and the public. (Id. ¶ 33.)In Brooks v. E.J. Willig Truck Transp. Co. (1953) 40 Cal.2d 669, 679, the court found that a hit and run cannot give rise to damages unless the fact of the hit and run caused additional damages above and beyond the accident itself. Brooks did not consider the issue of whether punitive damages can be imposed based on a hit and run. It did, however, hold that such act only constitutes a tort if the act itself causes the plaintiff additional damages above and beyond the damages caused by the accident that precedes the hit and run. For example, if a plaintiff is struck and is seriously bleeding following the accident, the fact that the defendant hits and runs could cause additional damage due to loss of blood, death, etc. If, however, the accident causes immediate soft tissue damage, no amount of aid would reduce or minimize the future damages, and the act of hitting and running would not give rise to additional damages.Fleeing the scene of an auto accident may be reprehensible and outrageous if Plaintiff was apparently injured and required aid. Here, apart from the allegations that Plaintiffs were injured and experienced pain and discomfort from the collision, there are no facts to indicate that Plaintiffs suffered additional damages beyond those caused by the accident. The FAC does not allege that Plaintiffs were struck and began bleeding from the collision. There are no facts to indicate that Plaintiffs injuries may have gotten worse due to lack of medical assistance. Plaintiff’s allegations are insufficient to support a separate cause of action for intentional infliction of emotional distress for extreme and outrageous conduct. Plaintiff’s allegations are not specific to show intent to cause emotional harm to Plaintiff.The demurrer as to the fourth Cause of Action for IIED is SUSTAINED with twenty (20) days leave to amend.MOTION TO STRIKE -- Punitive Damages:Defendant argues that Plaintiff cannot recover punitive damages against Defendant because none of the facts alleged in the FAC rise to the level of fraud, oppression, malice, or despicable conduct in conscious disregard for the probable dangerous consequences.A motion to strike punitive damages is properly granted where a plaintiff does not state a prima facie claim for punitive damages, including allegations that defendant is guilty of oppression, fraud or malice. (Turman v. Turning Point of Cent. California, Inc. (2010) 191 Cal.App.4th 53, 63.) “Mere negligence, even gross negligence, is not sufficient to justify such an award” for punitive damages. (Kendall Yacht Corp. v. United California Bank (1975) 50 Cal. App. 3d 949, 958.) The allegations supporting a request for punitive damages must be alleged with specificity; conclusory allegations without sufficient facts are not enough. (Smith v. Superior Court (1992) 10 Cal.App.4th 1033, 1041-1042.)Punitive damages may be imposed where it is proven by clear and convincing evidence that the defendant has been guilty of oppression, fraud, or malice. (Civ. Code, § 3294, subd. (a).) “Malice” is conduct intended by the defendant to cause injury to the plaintiff or despicable conduct which is carried on with a willful and conscious disregard of the rights or safety of others. (Civ. Code, § 3294, subd. (c)(1).) “‘Punitive damages areproper only when the tortious conduct rises to levels of extreme indifference to the plaintiff’s rights, a level which decent citizens should not have to tolerate.’ [Citation.]” (Lackner v. North (2006) 135 Cal.App.4th 1188, 1210.) “As amended to include [despicable], the [Civil Code section 3294] plainly indicates that absent an intent to injure the plaintiff, ‘malice’ requires more than a ‘willful and conscious’ disregard of the plaintiffs’ interests. The additional component of ‘despicable conduct’ must be found.” (College Hospital Inc. v. Superior Court (1994) 8 Cal.4th 704, 725.) The statute’s reference to despicable conduct represents a “new substantive limitation on punitive damage awards.” (Ibid.) Despicable conduct is “conduct which is so vile, base, contemptible, miserable, wretched or loathsome that it would be looked down upon and despised by ordinary decent people. Such conduct has been described as ‘having the character of outrage frequently associated with crime.’” (Tomaselli v. Transamerica Ins. Co. (1994) 25 Cal.App.4th 1269, 1287.) Further, “[t]here must be evidence that defendant acted with knowledge of the probable dangerous consequences to plaintiff’s interests and deliberately failed to avoid these consequences.” (Flyer’s Body Shop Profit Sharing Plan v. Ticor Title Ins. Co. (1986) 185 Cal.App.3d 1149, 1155; see also Angie M. v. Superior Court (1995) 37 Cal.App.4th 1217, 1228 [“Conscious disregard for the safety of another may be sufficient where the defendant is aware of the probably dangerous consequences of his or her conduct and he or she willfully fails to avoid such consequences”].)The Court has carefully considered the arguments of the parties and rules that the allegations in the Complaint are not sufficient to support a claim for punitive damages. Plaintiff has not sufficiently alleged facts that, if proven, would establish that Defendant engaged in conduct that endangered others or was carried on with a willful and conscious disregard of the rights or safety of others. The Complaint does not contain any other allegation that would satisfy the requirements for malice or oppression. The Court will, however, grant Plaintiff  twenty (20) days leave to amend.