 Case Number:  21STCV07504    Hearing Date:   September 26, 2023    Dept:  30 CHRISTOPHER MICHAEL DOWDING vs HILARY SUSAN ROSE, et al.Motion for Summary JudgmentDefendants Hilary Susan Rose and Palisades Organic Landcare, Inc. dba Dirty Girl Organic Landcare’s Motion for Summary Judgment is GRANTED.DiscussionImproper FilingAs a preliminary matter, Plaintiff improperly filed a supplemental declaration in opposition to the Motion on August 14, 2023, and further briefing (and related documents) in opposition to the Motion on September 12, 2023. The supplemental declaration in opposition was filed three days before the previous hearing date for the present Motion and well after Plaintiff’s deadline to file any papers in opposition to the Motion, and was not authorized by the Court. The further briefing was filed after the Court continued the hearing for the present Motion; however, the Court simply continued the Motion, and did not authorize any further briefing. Thus, the Court exercises its discretion and strikes the supplemental declaration filed on August 14, 2023, and the further briefing filed by Plaintiff on September 12, 2023. (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 436(b), 1005(b).)Procedural IssuesIn addition, the Court finds that Plaintiff’s contention that the present Motion is not timely is without merit. The timeliness of the present motion is confirmed by the Court’s July 18, 2023 order, which continued the trial date to May 7, 2024, and ordered “[a]ll trial related deadlines continue in correspondence with the new trial date.”AnalysisMoving Defendants seek summary judgment on the grounds that workers’ compensation is the exclusive remedy against an employer for injuries sustained out of and in the course of employment.The Workers Compensation Act (“WCA”) governs compensation to employees for injuries incurred in the course and scope of their employment. (See Cal. Const., art. XIV, § 4; Cal. Labor Code, § 3201; Charles J. Vacanti, M.D., Inc. v. State Compensation Insurance Fund (2001) 24 Cal.4th 800, 810.) Compensation under the WCA is an employee’s exclusive remedy against an employer for injuries sustained out of and in the course of employment. (See Cal. Labor Code, §§ 3600(a), 3602(a).) Whether exclusivity bars a cause of action against an employer depends on whether the alleged injury falls within the scope of the exclusive remedy provisions. (See Charles J. Vacanti, M.D., Inc., supra, 24 Cal.4th at 811.) The exclusive remedy provisions apply only in cases of industrial personal injury or death. (Shoemaker v. Myers (1990) 52 Cal.3d 1, 16.) The exclusive remedy provisions do not apply where the dual capacity doctrine applies. (See id.) The dual capacity doctrine applies where the injury stems from an employer-employee relationship that is distinct and invokes a different set of obligations than the employer’s usual duties to its employee. (See id.; Cole v. Fair Oaks Fire Protection District (1987) 43 Cal.3d 148, 161-62.) Causes of action predicated upon an injury that is collateral to or derivative of an injury compensable by the exclusive remedies of the WCA may be subject to the exclusivity bar. (Id.) “While common law tort claims are generally preempted [citation], claims for separate injuries under distinct statutory schemes are not.” (Veguez v. Governing Board of Long Beach Unified School District (2005) 127 Cal.App.4th 406, 418.)Subject to certain exceptions, employees may not sue their employers or coworkers for injuries suffered in a workplace as they were limited to the exclusive remedies of the Workers’ Compensation system. (See Lab. Code, §§ 3601, 3602.) An employee may maintain a tort action against his or her employer for workplace injuries resulting from a willful physical assault by the employer. (See id., § 3602(b); Herrick v. Quality Hotels, Inns & Resorts, Inc. (1993) 19 Cal.App.4th 1608, 1617.) An employer generally cannot be held vicariously liable for damages resulting from a coworker’s physical act of aggression, unless the employer ratifies or directs the coworker’s act. (See Herrick, supra, 19 Cal.App.4th at 1618.)Here, Moving Defendants’ evidence shows that Plaintiff was hired as an employee of Moving Defendants to work at 27777 Winding Way in Malibu, and was injured while on working on said job. (UMF Nos. 1-7.) As a result of the injuries Plaintiff sustained while working for Moving Defendants, Plaintiff presented a claim to recover benefits from his employer’s workers compensation policy of insurance, and has further received monetary benefits from said claim. (UMF Nos. 8-9.)Moving Defendants meet their burden of proving that Plaintiff was an employee of Moving Defendants, at the time of the incident, and was injured while removing a deteriorated walkway at 27777 Winding Way in Malibu, within the course and scope of his employment. Additionally, there is no evidence to indicate that an exception to the workers compensation exclusivity rule applies. Thus, Plaintiff is precluded from suing Moving Defendants for injuries he sustained in the workplace.The burden now shifts to Plaintiff. Plaintiff failed to advance any substantive arguments or evidence in opposition to Moving Defendants’ Motion, and thus fails to meet his burden to show that triable issues of material fact exist over whether his claims against Moving Defendants are barred by Labor Code sections 3600 and 3602.In light of the Court finding that Plaintiff’s claims against Moving Defendants are barred by the workers compensation exclusivity rule, the Court need not reach Moving Defendants’ additional arguments regarding their lack of ownership or control over the subject property where Plaintiff sustained his injuries.Thus, Defendants’ Motion for Summary Judgment is GRANTED.