 Case Number:  23VECV04458    Hearing Date:   June 10, 2024    Dept:  T NOAH NORTON 23VECV04451
NATHANIEL NORTON
23VECV04458
Tentative ruling: In the Lead
Case Noah Ryder Norton, a minor, by and through his Guardian Ad Litem, Jennifer
Jeffries; individually and as Successor-in-Interest to Decedent, Robert Jasen
Norton (Super. Ct. Los Angeles County, pending, 23VECV04451 (Lead Case)) and
the Non-Lead Case Nathaniel Wyatt Norton, a minor and heir of Decedent Robert
Jason Norton, by and through his Guardian Ad Litem, Jennifer Marie McCurry v.
Marco Antonio Ruiz Gonzalez et al (Super. Ct. Los Angeles County, pending, No.
23VECV04458 (Non-Lead Case)), Plaintiff Noah Ryder Norton, a minor, by and
through his Guardian Ad Litem, Jennifer Jeffries (Noah ) and Plaintiff
Nathaniel Wyatt Norton, a minor, by and through his Guardian Ad Litem Jennifer
Marie McCurry (Nathaniel ) moved to enforce the settlement entered with
Defendants Marco Antonio Ruiz Gonzalez (Gonzalez), Baltazar Solorio Mejia
(Mejia), Lidia Solorio (Solorio), Cesar Ortiz Tovar (Tovar), Advanced Access
Controls Inc. (AAC), and Nominal Defendant Robert Jacob Norton (Robert ) (collectively,
Defendants).
In contradiction to the Notice to
the Motion, the body of the Points and Authorities asserted that the Motion is
also being brought by Plaintiff Noah Ryder Norton, a minor, by and through his
Guardian Ad Litem, Jennifer Jeffries (Noah), as identified in the Lead Case
(Noah Ryder Norton, a minor, by and through his Guardian Ad Litem, Jennifer
Jeffries; individually and as Successor-in-Interest to Decedent, Robert Jasen
Norton (Super. Ct. Los Angeles County, pending, 23VECV04451 (Lead Case)).  (See Points and Authorities, pg. 2:3-4.)  In that Noah did not provide proper notice on
the motion, there is grounds to deny the motion – at least as to Noah.
Even if the Court were to review
the motion as a motion filed by both Nathaniel and Noah in both the Lead and
Non-Lead cases, the Court finds other deficiencies.
To the extent the Motion is
presenting a global settlement and requesting a global judgment, the Motion
failed to present any facts/argument as to any claims held by Jennifer
Jeffries, as an individual, in the Lead Case. 
To the extent that Nathaniel and Noah are requesting enforcement of
settlement and/or entry of a global judgment, the request would be without
merit because resolution of Jennifer Jeffries’ claims in the Lead Case are not
addressed.
Procedurally, Noah’s Motion, if
any, is not proper.  The Lead Case did
not name Robert as a party plaintiff or a party defendant.  Because Robert is not a party in the Lead
Case, the Court cannot enforce any settlement as to Robert in the lead
case.  Without Robert being a named party
to the Lead Case, the Court lacks any jurisdiction over Robert in the Lead
Case. 
The Court further has doubts as
to its jurisdiction over Defendants Gonzalez, Mejia, Solorio, Tovar, and AAC in
both the Lead Case and Non-Lead Case. 
The Court files show that proofs of service of the summons and complaint
have not been filed in both cases as to Defendants Gonzalez, Mejia, Solorio,
Tovar, and AAC.  The Court files also
show that these defendants have not yet made any general appearance in either
the Lead or Non-Lead Case.  Any ruling on
the instant motion would be void without proper showing that the Court has
jurisdiction over Defendants.
Even if the Court were to review
the merits of the motion, there are still substantive deficiencies.
Nathaniel and Noah asserted that
all parties, including Nominal Defendant Robert (only in the Non-Lead Case),
came to an agreement to settle the matter with Defendants.  Nathaniel and Noah presented text message
exchanges between Robert and the relevant Counsels to prove-up entry into a
settlement agreement.  (Evan Khoshnou
Decl. pars. 4-8, Exhs. A-C.)  Nathaniel
and Noah argued that the Court has authority to enforce the settlement despite
Robert’s objection to the division of proceeds between Nathaniel, Noah, and
Robert.  Nathaniel and Noah asserted that
the Court’s authority is grounded in general contract law.  However, neither the Lead Case nor the
Non-Lead Case involve any breach of contract claim between Nathaniel, Noah, and
Robert.  This action is only for wrongful
death of Decedent Robert Jason Norton (Jason). 
Any settlement that the Court has
authority to rule upon would be the wrongful death claim within both cases as
to Robert (as a nominal defendant), Noah, Nathaniel, and Jennifer Jeffries
(individually, as identified in the Lead Case), on the one side, and Gonzalez,
Mejia, Solorio, Tovar, and AAC, on the other side.  The issue as to any settlement is not the
alleged settlement between plaintiffs and defendants.  The issue presented in the motion is a
dispute between Noah and Nathaniel, on the one side, and Robert, on the other
side, which is essentially a dispute between party plaintiffs.  The issues between Nathaniel/Noah and Robert
are not before this Court as alleged in the two Complaints.  Because the dispute presented is not placed
before this Court in the pleadings, the Court has no authority to rule upon the
dispute and force Robert into a settlement. 
IN SUMMARY
In Noah Ryder (individually) and
Jennifer Jeffries (individually and as successor in interest to Robert Jasen
Norton) v. Marco Antonio Ruiz Gonzalez, Baltazar Solorio Mejia, Lidia Solorio,
Cesar Ortiz Tova, and Advanced Access Controls:
1. There are no proofs of service
on any defendants.
2. Defendants have not
voluntarily appeared in the case.
3. Robert Jacob Norton is not a
party to this case.
4. The court has no jurisdiction
over defendants and Robert Jacob Norton.
5. There is no mention of
allocation of funds to Jennifer Jeffries, individually or as successor in
interest.
In Nathaniel Ryder (individually)
v. Marco Antonio Ruiz Gonzalez, Baltazar Solorio Mejia, Lidia Solorio, Cesar
Ortiz Tovar, Advanced Access Controls, and Robert Jacob Norton:
1. There are no proofs of service
on any defendants.
2. Defendants have not
voluntarily appeared in the case.
3. The court has no jurisdiction
over defendants and Robert Jacob Norton.
The motion to enforce settlement
filed in the Nathaniel case is not to enforce a settlement agreement between
the plaintiff and all defendants; it is to enforce a contract between plaintiff
and defendant Robert Jacob Norton, who has not appeared in this action.
The court has the ability to
consider a minors compromise without litigation, but it does not have the
ability to enforce a contract between the heirs, one of whom has not appeared
in the action.  At most, as the defendants
are not part of this action, this is a motion to force the heirs to a
particular distribution of settlement funds. 
Robert Jacob Norton has not been served with process and was emailed the
motion.  Even under these circumstances,
the court does not have jurisdiction to enter an order as to him.
The motion to enforce settlement
is DENIED WITHOUT PREJUDICE.