 Case Number:  23TRCV02814    Hearing Date:   March 14, 2024    Dept:  P Hearing Date: March 14, 2024Moving Parties: Defendant Hyundai Motor AmericaResponding Party: Plaintiff Keith ScogginsDEFENDANT’S MOTION TO COMPEL BINDING ARBITRATIONRULINGThe Court considered the moving, opposition, and reply papers. Defendant’s Motion to Compel Binding Arbitration is GRANTED.BACKGROUNDKeith Scoggins (Plaintiff) filed a Complaint on August 28, 2023. The Complaint alleged three causes of action grounded in the Song-Beverly Act against Hyundai Motor America (Defendant).On March 20, 2021, Plaintiff purchased a 2021 Hyundai Palisade (the Vehicle). (Complaint, ¶ 8.) Express warranties accompanied the sale of the Vehicle to Plaintiff. (Id.) Plaintiff alleges that the Vehicle was delivered to Plaintiff with defects and nonconformities to the warranty. (Id., ¶ 9.) Plaintiff alleges that after he delivered the Vehicle to Defendant’s authorized repair facilities for repair Defendant was unable to conform the Vehicle to the warranty. (Id., ¶¶ 23-24.) Plaintiff then filed suit.The motion now before the Court is Defendant’s Motion to Compel Arbitration (the Motion). Plaintiff opposes the Motion, and Defendant files a reply.DISCUSSIONRequest for Judicial NoticeDefendant requests that this Court take judicial notice of the following:1. Plaintiff’s Complaint, filed on August 28, 20232. Minute Order and Ruling in Jason Guaschino v. Hyundai Motor America, (United States District Court, Central District of California - Case No. CV 23-04354-MWF3. Minute Order and Ruling in Paula Vargas-Lopez v. Hyundai Motor America, (United States District Court, Central District of California - Case No. 8:22-cv-01526-FWS-JDE)4. Minute Order and Ruling in Virginia Mendoza v. Hyundai Motor America, (United States District Court, Central District of California - Case No. CV 22-210-DMG5. Minute Order and Ruling in Nanci Aleman Garcia v. Hyundai Motor America, (LASC - Case No. 22STCV38870)The request for judicial notice is redundant as to Plaintiff’s Complaint, as the Court’s ruling necessitates reference thereto, however, pursuant to CEC § 452(d)(1), the Court will grant judicial notice as to the remaining items.Legal StandardUnder both the Federal Arbitration Act and California law, arbitration agreements are valid, irrevocable, and enforceable, except on such grounds that exist at law or equity for voiding a contract. (Winter v. Window Fashions Professions, Inc. (2008) 166 Cal.App.4th 943, 947.) The party moving to compel arbitration must establish the existence of a written arbitration agreement between the parties. (Code of Civ. Proc. § 1281.2.) This is usually done by presenting a copy of the signed, written agreement to the court. “A petition to compel arbitration or to stay proceedings pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure sections 1281.2 and 1281.4 must state, in addition to other required allegations, the provisions of the written agreement and the paragraph that provides for arbitration. The provisions must be stated verbatim, or a copy must be physically or electronically attached to the petition and incorporated by reference.” (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1330.)The moving party must also establish the other party’s refusal to arbitrate the controversy. (Code of Civ. Proc. § 1281.2.) The filing of a lawsuit against the moving party for a controversyclearly within the scope of the arbitration agreement affirmatively establishes the other party’s refusal to arbitrate the controversy. (Hyundai Amco America, Inc. v. S3H, Inc. (2014) 232 Cal.App.4th 572, 577.)AnalysisIn their moving papers Defendant asserts that there are two arbitration agreements that control. The first is the arbitration agreement in the retail installment sale contract (RISC), the second is the arbitration agreement in the owner’s handbook. The Court notes that although both are presented verbatim, the latter is unsigned. Plaintiff’s refusal to arbitrate has been clearly established by the filing of the Complaint.As to the arbitration agreement within the RISC (RISC Arbitration Agreement), Plaintiff argues that it cannot be invoked because Defendant is a non-signatory to the contract. Any enforcement of the arbitration provision by Defendant, would come as being enforced by (1) equitable estoppel or (2) Defendant qualifying as a third-party beneficiary. Plaintiff argues that neither situation applies, therefore the RISC Arbitration Agreement cannot be enforced.As to the arbitration agreement within the handbook (Handbook Arbitration Agreement), Plaintiff argues that it cannot be enforced because (1) there was no assent and (2) Defendant’s attempt to sneak a contractual obligation into a warranty must fail.As explained below, the Court disagrees with both of Plaintiff’s arguments as to the RISC Arbitration Agreement and as to the Handbook Arbitration Agreement. The Court grants Defendant’s Motion.A. The Arbitration Agreement within the Retail Installment Sale ContractThe RISC Arbitration Agreement provides in pertinent part as follows:“1. EITHER YOU OR WE MAY CHOOSE TO HAVE ANY DISPUTE BETWEEN US DECIDED BY ARBITRATION AND NOT IN COURT OR BY JURY TRIAL.2. IF A DISPUTE IS ARBITRATED, YOU WILL GIVE UP YOUR RIGHT TO PARTICIPATE AS A CLASS REPRESENTATIVE OR CLASS MEMBER ON ANY CLASS CLAIM YOU MAY HAVE AGAINST US INCLUDING ANY RIGHT TO CLASS ARBITRATION OR ANY CONSOLIDATION OF INDIVIDUAL ARBITRATIONS.3. DISCOVERY AND RIGHTS TO APPEAL IN ARBITRATION ARE GENERALLY MORE LIMITED THAN IN A LAWSUIT, AND OTHERRIGHTS THAT YOU AND WE WOULD HAVE IN COURT MAY NOT BE AVAILABLE IN ARBITRATION.Any claim or dispute, whether in contract, tort, statute or otherwise (including the interpretation and scope of this Arbitration Provision, and the arbitrability of the claim or dispute), between you and us or our employees, agents, successors or assigns, which arises out of or relates to your credit application, purchase or condition of this vehicle, this contract or any resulting transaction or relationship (including any such relationship with third parties who do not sign this contract) shall, at your or our election, be resolved by neutral, binding arbitration and not by a court action…”In countering Plaintiff’s contention on estoppel, Defendant argues that equitable estoppel is available. Defendant relies on Felisilda v. FCA US LLC (2020) 53 Cal.App.5th 486, stating that Plaintiff’s warranty claims arise out of and are intertwined with the underlying contract obligations. (Also see, Boucher v. Alliance Title Co., Inc. (2005) 127 Cal. App. 4th 262, 271, [“[U]nder both federal and California decisional authority, a nonsignatory defendant may invoke an arbitration clause to compel a signatory plaintiff to arbitrate its claims when the causes of action against the nonsignatory are ‘intimately founded in and intertwined’ with the underlying contract obligations.”] and Goldman v. KPMG LLP (2009) 173 Cal.App.4th 209, 217-18.)In Felisilda vehicle buyers brought action against the dealership and the automobile manufacturer for violation of the Song-Beverly Consumer Warranty Act. The dealership filed a motion to compel arbitration that included the manufacturer. The trial court ordered arbitration and dismissed the dealership. The decision was affirmed by the Court of Appeal. (Felisilda, supra, 486). Part of the Felisilda Court’s ruling was that the Complaint had alleged that the warranties accompanied the sale of the vehicle, and that the manufacturer undertook to maintain the utility of the vehicle or provide compensation if there was a failure in performance. (Felisilda, supra, 496.) Plaintiff alleges similarly here, for example: “Express warranties accompanied the sale of the Subject Vehicle to Plaintiff by which Hyundai Motor America undertook to preserve or maintain the utility or performance of Plaintiff’s vehicle or to provide compensation if there was a failure in such utility or performance.” (Complaint, ¶ 8.)The court follows the recent 2nd District court of appeal case, Ford Motor Warranty Cases, Ochoa v. Ford Motor Company (2023) 89 Cal.App.5th 1324, which addresses whether a non-signatory manufacturer can invoke the arbitration provision in a sales contract and declines to follow the holding in Felisilda. The appellate court rejected the manufacturer’s positions as to equitable estoppel, third-party beneficiary, and agency theories, stating: “We agree with the trialcourt that FMC could not compel arbitration based on plaintiffs’ agreements with the dealers that sold them the vehicles. Equitable estoppel does not apply because, contrary to FMC’s arguments, plaintiffs’ claims against it in no way rely on the agreements. FMC was not a third party of those agreements as there is no basis to conclude the plaintiffs and their dealers entered into them with the intention of benefitting FMC. And FMC is not entitled to enforce the agreements as an undisclosed principal because there is no nexus between plaintiffs’ claims, any alleged agency between FMC and the dealers, and the agreements.”The court finds “manufacturer vehicle warranties that accompany the sale of motor vehicles without regard to the terms of the sale contract between the purchaser and the dealer are independent of the sales contract.” Montemayor v. Ford Motor Co. (2023) 92 Cal.App.5th 958, 969. Therefore, the RISC does not create an enforceable contract between plaintiff and Hyundai.B. The Owner’s Handbook & Warranty InformationThe parties also maintain contention that reach to the second arbitration agreement, the Handbook Arbitration Agreement. The Handbook Arbitration Agreement is similar to the RISC Arbitration Agreement; however, the key differences are that (a) there is a 30-day opt out option and (b) the following provision:IF YOU PURCHASED OR LEASED YOUR VEHICLE IN CALIFORNIA, YOUR WARRANTY IS MADE SUBJECT TO THE TERMS OF THIS BINDING ARBITRATION PROVISION. BY ACCEPTING BENEFITS UNDER THIS WARRANTY, INCLUDING HAVING ANY REPAIRS PERFORMED UNDER WARRANTY, YOU AGREE TO BE BOUND BY THESE TERMS.The Handbook Arbitration Agreement, unlike the RISK Arbitration Agreement, is not signed; however, Defendant provides a copy within the moving papers and indicates that this handbook accompanied the subject warranty. Indeed, the text of the warranty is within the handbook. (See Declaration of Ali Ameripour, Exh 3, pg. 13.)i. AssentPlaintiff’s first contention is that there was no assent to the Handbook Arbitration Agreement. There is no signature to the Handbook Arbitration Agreement in the copy Defendant attached, however, there is a provision that counters Plaintiff’s contention: “…by accepting benefits under this warranty, including having any repairs performed under warranty, you agree tobe bound by these terms.” (Id.) Additionally, the clause notes that if the Vehicle was purchased in California, the warranty is subject to the terms of the arbitration agreement therein.Here, contract law is instructive. The manner in which acceptance is to be communicated may be specified in the offer, in which case no other will suffice. But if the offer prescribes no means, “any reasonable and usual mode may be adopted.” (Witkin Summary of California Law, Eleventh Edition – Contracts.) Here, acceptance was specified as the action of purchasing or leasing the Vehicle within California, which the Plaintiff did. Plaintiff argues that silence cannot act as acceptance, we agree, however, the manner of acceptance was not silence, but making the purchase within state lines. Moreover, there was an opt-out provision in the Handbook Arbitration Agreement, yet there is no indication that Plaintiff ever availed himself to it. Therefore, Plaintiff assented to the Handbook Arbitration Agreement.ii. Handbook Arbitration Agreement vs. WarrantyPlaintiff’s final argument is that Defendant’s “attempt to sneak contractual obligations into a Warranty necessarily fail”. (Opposition Papers, 8:18-20.) The Court disagrees. First, the Handbook Arbitration Agreement is noted in bold in the table of contents and clearly stated on page 13 and 14 of the warranty, there does not appear to be any clear attempt to hide the terms of the Handbook Arbitration Agreement. Second, Plaintiff attempts to separate the warranty from the arbitration agreement arguing that a warranty, which focuses on the seller’s behavior and obligation, does not impose any independent obligation on the buyer outside of the context of enforcing the seller’s promises. (Opposition Papers, 9:1-7.) The Court is unpersuaded as Plaintiff fails to provide authority as to why the two may not be combined. Here, in clear terms, Defendant provided the text of the Handbook Arbitration Agreement, and a 30-day opt-out option. Plaintiff did not avail themselves to the latter, therefore it cannot avoid the former.Finally, to the extent that plaintiff pleads a cause of action for an implied warranty, the court finds that the causes of action asserting violations of the express warranty are wholly intertwined with the allegations regarding the implied warranty. Therefore, all of plaintiff’s allegations are subject to arbitration.CONCLUSIONAccordingly, Defendant’s Motion to Compel Binding Arbitration is GRANTED.Prevailing party on motion is ordered to give notice of ruling.