 Case Number:  22TRCV01513    Hearing Date:   March 14, 2024    Dept:  P Hearing Date: March 14, 2024Moving Parties: Defendant Vortex Alliance, Inc.Responding Party: N/A - UnopposedDEFENDANT VORTEX ALLIANCE, INC.’s DEMURRER TO PLAINTIFF’S COMPLAINTRULINGThe Court considered the moving papers. The Defendant Vortex Alliance, Inc.’s Demurrer to Plaintiff’s Complaint is SUSTAINED. Plaintiff is granted 20 days leave to amend.BACKGROUNDJack Cheung dba Three-C Co. (Plaintiff) filed an Unlawful Detainer Complaint on December 16, 2022 against David Tran (Tran) and Vortex Alliance (Vortex, collectively Defendants). The motion before the Court is Vortex’s Demurrer to Plaintiff’s Complaint. The Demurrer is unopposed.DISCUSSIONLegal Standard“[A] demurrer tests the legal sufficiency of the allegations in a complaint.” (Lewis v. Safeway, Inc. (2015) 235 Cal.App.4th 385, 388.) A demurrer can be used only to challenge defects that appear on the face of the pleading under attack or from matters outside the pleading that are judicially noticeable. (See Donabedian v. Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994 [in ruling on a demurrer, a court may not consider declarations, matters not subject to judicial notice, or documents not accepted for the truth of their contents].) For purposes of ruling on a demurrer, all facts pleaded in a complaint are assumed to be true, but the reviewing court does not assume the truth of conclusions of law. (Aubry v. Tri-City Hosp. Dist. (1992) 2 Cal.4th 962, 967.)AnalysisVortex argues upon Demurrer that the Complaint fails for three reasons: (1) Plaintiff cannot demonstrate compliance with Business and Professions Code § 17918 (BPC § 17918), (2) the Complaint fails to attach a copy of the lease, and (3) the Complaint fails to allege proper service of the Notice to Quit. The Court agrees with the first two reasons and sustains the Demurrer.Vortex argues first that Plaintiff fails to show compliance with BPC § 17918. This section provides:“No person transacting business under a fictitious business name contrary to the provisions of this chapter, or his assignee, may maintain any action upon or on account of any contract made, or transaction had, in the fictitious business name in any court of this state until the fictitious business name statement has been executed, filed, and published as required by this chapter.”Indeed, on page one, under questions 2(a) and 2(b), where Plaintiff is asked whether they have complied with the fictitious name laws and the fictitious name business is being conducted under, Plaintiff checks they have complied but then lists the name as “Vortex Alliance”, the business name the demurring defendant. Therefore, it is unclear whether Plaintiff has indeed complied or whether Plaintiff simply made a typographical error.More substantively, Vortex contends that the lease alleged to have been breached is not attached. In order to establish breach of a contract, Plaintiff must be able to establish the existence of a contract. (Oasis West Realty, LLC v. Goldman (2011) 51 Cal.4th 811, 821.) If a breach of contract claim “is based on alleged breach of a written contract, the terms must be set out verbatim in the body of the complaint or a copy of the written agreement must be attached and incorporatedby reference.” (Harris v. Rudin, Richman & Appel (1999) 74 Cal.App.4th 299, 307.) However, here, Plaintiff does neither.Finally, the Court notes that although the Demurrer contends that the three-day Notice to quit was not properly served, the Notice is attached along with proof of service demonstrating proper service. However, this does not remedy the first two deficiencies, therefore, the Demurrer is sustained.Leave to AmendLeave to amend must be allowed where there is a reasonable possibility of successful amendment. (See Goodman v. Kennedy (1976) 18 Cal.3d 335, 349 [court shall not “sustain a demurrer without leave to amend if there is any reasonable possibility that the defect can be cured by amendment”]. As there is reasonable possibility of successful amendment, leave to amend is granted. Plaintiff has 20 days leave to amend.CONCLUSIONThe Defendant Vortex Alliance, Inc.’s Demurrer to Plaintiff’s Complaint is SUSTAINED. Plaintiff is granted 20 days leave to amend.Prevailing party on motion is ordered to give notice of ruling.