  Case Number:  22STCV32415    Hearing Date:   November 30, 2023    Dept:  26  
Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
Department 26
 



 
KENDALL
  CAPPS,
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
 
JULIEN
  ENTERTAINMENT.COM, INC. dba JULIEN’S
  AuCTIONS; JASON DEBORD; DARREN C. JULIEN, et al.,

 
                        Defendants.


 
 Case No.: 22STCV32415
 
 Hearing Date: November 28, 2023
 
 [TENTATIVE]
  order RE:
Plaintiff’s motion to compel defendant
  jason debord’s further responses to special interrogatories, set
  one  



 
Procedural
Background
            On October 4, 2022, Plaintiff
Kendall Capps (“Plaintiff”) filed the instant wrongful termination action
against Defendants Julien Entertainment.com, Inc. dba Julien’s Auctions
(“Auctions”), Jason DeBord (“DeBord”), and Darren C. Julien (“Julien”)
(collectively “Defendants”).  The
complaint asserts seven causes of action for (1) Failure to Provide Meal
Breaks, (2) Failure to Provide Rest Breaks, (3) Failure to Pay Wages, (4)
Failure to Pay Overtime, (5) Failure to Provide Accurate Itemized Wage
Statements, (6) Violation of Business & Professions Code §§ 17200-17208,
and (7) Wrongful Termination in Violation of Public Policy.  On September 13, 2023, Plaintiff filed a Doe
amendment naming Martin J. Nolan as Doe 1.
            On September 15, 2023, Plaintiff
filed the instant motion to compel Defendant DeBord’s further responses to
Special Interrogatories, Set One (“SROGs”). 
On November 13, 2023, Defendant DeBord file an opposition.  On November 20, 2023, Plaintiff filed a
reply.
 
Legal Standard
Code of Civil Procedure section 2030.300
provides that “[o]n receipt of a response to interrogatories, the propounding
party may move for an order compelling a further response if the propounding
party deems that any of the following apply: (1) An answer to a particular
interrogatory is evasive or incomplete; [or] (2) An exercise of the option to
produce documents under Section 2030.230 is unwarranted or the required
specification of those documents is inadequate; [or] (3) An objection to an
interrogatory is without merit or too general.” 
(CCP § 2030.300(a).)
Notice of the motion must be given within 45
days of service of the verified response, or upon a later date agreed to in
writing.  Otherwise, the propounding
party waives any right to compel a further response.  (CCP § 2031.310(c).)  The motion must also be accompanied by a meet
and confer declaration.  (CCP §
2031.310(b)(2).)
The burden is on the responding party to
justify any objection or failure to fully answer the interrogatories.  (Fairmont
Ins. Co. v. Superior Court (Stendell)
(2000) 22 Cal. 4th 245, 255.)
 
Meet
and Confer
Pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 2030.300(b)(1) a motion to
compel further responses to interrogatories “shall be accompanied by a meet and
confer declaration under Section 2016.040.” 
(CCP § 2030.300(b)(1).)  “A meet
and confer declaration in support of a motion shall state facts showing a
reasonable and good faith attempt at an informal resolution of each issue
presented by the motion.”  (CCP §
2016.040.) “The level of effort at informal resolution which satisfies the
‘reasonable and good faith attempt’ standard depends upon the circumstances. In
a larger, more complex discovery context, a greater effort at informal
resolution may be warranted. In a simpler, or more narrowly focused case, a
more modest effort may suffice. The history of the litigation, the nature of
the interaction between counsel, the nature of the issues, the type and scope
of discovery requested, the prospects for success and other similar factors can
be relevant.”  (Obregon v. Superior
Court (1998) 67 Cal.App.4th 424, 431.)
            On December 15, 2022, Plaintiff
served the SROGS at issue on Defendant DeBord. 
(Kanter Decl. ¶ 5, Exh. A.)  After
several extensions, on March 10, 2023, Defendant DeBord served responses to the
SROGS at issue.  (Kanter Decl. ¶ 6, Exh.
B.)  Plaintiff met and conferred with
Defendant DeBord regarding the SROGS at issue by email, phone calls, and an
informal discovery conference.  (Kanter
Decl. ¶¶ 7, 10-12, Exh. D.)  However,
Defendant DeBord deemed his responses sufficient and refused to provide further
responses.  (Kanter Decl. ¶ 12.)  However, the parties did agree to extend the
deadline to file the instant motion.  (Kanter
Decl. ¶ 10.)  In light of the above
attempts at informal resolution, Plaintiff has sufficiently met and conferred.
 
Discussion
            Plaintiff seeks to
compel Defendant DeBord’s further response to SROGs No. 43, 44, 45, 65, 66, and
71.
 
SROGS No. 43-44
            “DESCRIBE the entire
process of auctioning items.”  (SROG No.
43.)
            “DESCRIBE the entire
process of assessing prospective items for auction.”  (SROG No. 44.)
            “DESCRIBE the entire
process of tracking auction items.”  (SROG
No. 45.)
 
In an identical response, Defendant DeBord responded as follows:
            “Responding Party incorporates
each of its General Objections herein. Responding Party further objects on the
grounds that the Interrogatory is vague and ambiguous, compound, overly broad,
unduly burdensome, invades third-party privacy rights, seeks confidential and
proprietary information, is beyond the scope of the Complaint, and is not
reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence.”  (Response to SROG Nos. 43-45.)
 
            General Objections
            Objections must be
specific, and general objections are improper. 
(CCP § 2030.30(a), [“n receipt of a response to interrogatories, the
propounding party may move for an order compelling a further response if the
propounding party deems that any of the following apply: …(3) An objection to
an interrogatory is without merit or too general.”], [Italics Added];
see also Korea Data Systems Co. v. Superior Court (1997) 51 Cal.App.4th
1513, 1516 [Noting that general objections are improper and
sanctionable].)  As such, the general
objections are insufficient to warrant a complete non-response to the SROGS at
issue.
 
            The SROGs are Not
Compound
            With regard to the “compound” objection, the
court finds that this objection too is unsupported.  “No specially prepared interrogatory shall
contain subparts, or a compound, conjunctive, or disjunctive question.” (CCP §
2030.060(f).)  Since any question using
an ‘and’ or ‘or’ could be compound and conjunctive this “‘rule should probably
apply only where more than a single
subject is covered by the question.’” (Clement
v. Alegre, (2009) 177 Cal. App. 4th 1277, 1291) [quoting Weil & Brown,
Cal. Practice Guide: Civil Procedure Before Trial, supra, ¶ 8:978.1, p. 8F–21]
[emphasis in original].)  
            Here, each of the
requests addresses a single topic – i.e., the process of auctioning.  The SROGs are not improperly compound as they
each address only a single topic.
 
            Defendant Fails to
Show Burden
            As to burden, “burden must be sustained by
evidence showing the quantum of work required” and “to support an objection of
oppression there must be some showing either of an intent to create an
unreasonable burden or that the ultimate effect of the burden is incommensurate
with the result sought.”  (West Pico Furniture Co. of Los Angeles v.
Superior Court In and For Los Angeles County (1961) 56 Cal.2d 407,
417.)  Moreover, even if [discovery
requests] are found to be “burdensome and oppressive,” the Court should not
simply sustain the objection and thereby excuse any answer. Rather, the Court
should limit the question to a reasonable scope. (Borse v. Superior Court
(Southern Pac. Co.) (1970) 7 Cal.App.3d 286, 289.)
            Here,
Defendant DeBord’s response fails to identify quantum of work required to
respond to these requests.  Similarly,
Defendant DeBord fails to identify in opposition the quantum of work required
to respond to these requests such that the requests would be overly burdensome
as to warrant a non-response to these SROGs.
 
            Confidentiality is not a Proper Objection
            No
case holds that confidentiality is a proper basis for an objection to an
otherwise proper interrogatory.  (Columbia
Broadcasting System, Inc. v. Superior Court for Los Angeles County (1968)
263 Cal.App.2d 12, 23.)  Rather, “[a]ssuming
that the information called for by this interrogatory is of a confidential
nature which defendants do not want to have included in a public record, they
presumably could have applied for a protective order[.]”  (Ibid.)   “An objection to any interrogatory … is not
the equivalent of a motion for a protective order.”  (Ibid.)  
            Here, Defendant DeBord did not
timely move for a protective order. 
Accordingly, Defendant DeBord may not refuse to respond to a SROG on
this basis.  


            Third Party Privacy
            The right of
privacy in the California Constitution (art. I, § 1), “protects the
individual's reasonable expectation of privacy against a serious
invasion.”  (Puerto v. Superior Court
(2008) 158 Cal.App.4th 1242, 1250 [italics in original]; See Williams v.
Superior Court (2017) 3 Cal.5th 531, 552 [“In Hill, we established a
framework for evaluating potential invasions of privacy. The party asserting a
privacy right must establish a legally protected privacy interest, an
objectively reasonable expectation of privacy in the given circumstances, and a
threatened intrusion that is serious. 
The party seeking information may raise in response whatever legitimate
and important countervailing interests disclosure serves, while the party
seeking protection may identify feasible alternatives that serve the same
interests or protective measures that would diminish the loss of privacy. A
court must then balance these competing considerations.”].)
            As the Supreme Court has “previously
observed, the right of privacy extends to sexual relations (Vinson
v. Superior Court, supra, 43 Cal.3d at p. 841, 239) and medical
records (Hill v. National Collegiate Athletic Assn. (1994) 7
Cal.4th 1, 41.).”  (John B. v.
Superior Court (2006) 38 Cal.4th 1177, 1198.)  Similarly, the constitutional right to
freedom of association requires protection of a person’s membership in
associations, whether they pertain to religious, political, economic, or even
purely social matters.  (Britt v.
Superior Court (1978) 20 Cal.3d 844, 852; see also Pacific-Union
Club v. Superior Court (1991) 232 Cal.App.3d 60, 71.)  Further, “‘Courts have frequently recognized
that individuals have a substantial interest in the privacy of
their home.’ [Citation.]”  (Puerto,
supra, 158 Cal.App.4th at p.1252.)  
            In establishing a privacy interest
“the burden [is] on the party asserting a privacy interest to establish
its extent and the seriousness of the prospective invasion, and against that
showing must weigh the countervailing interests the opposing party identifies,
as Hill requires.”  (Williams,
supra, 3 Cal.5th 531, 557.)  “Only
obvious invasions of interests fundamental to personal autonomy must be
supported by a compelling interest.”  (Ibid.)
            Here, SROGs No. 43-44
do not involve the specific identification of any third parties or any specific
information involving third parties. 
Further, in opposition, Defendant DeBord fails to specify how these
SROGs interfere with any third parties’ privacy.  Accordingly, this objection based on third
party privacy is similarly unsupported.
 
            Vague and Ambiguous
Objections are Unwarranted
            “A party may not
deliberately misconstrue a question for the purpose of supplying an evasive
answer. [Citation.] Indeed, where the question is somewhat ambiguous, but the
nature of the information sought is apparent, the proper solution is to provide
an appropriate response.”  (Deyo v.
Kilbourne (1978) 84 Cal.App.3d 771, 783.)
            Here, the SROGs are
clear and explicit.  To the extent that
there is some ambiguity, Defendant DeBord clearly could respond and thus was
required to do so.  An objection based
open vagueness or ambiguity will not support a non-response to a SROG unless
the question is unintelligible and thus impossible to respond to.
 
            Relevance 
            “[A]ny party may obtain discovery regarding
any matters, not privileged, that is relevant to the subject matter involved in
the pending action or to the determination of any motion made in that action,
if the matter either is itself admissible in evidence or appears reasonably
calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence.”  (CCP §
2017.010.)  “[A]n implicit waiver of a party's constitutional rights
encompasses only discovery directly relevant to the plaintiff's claim and
essential to the fair resolution of the lawsuit.”  (Vinson v. Superior
Court (1987) 43 Cal.3d 833, 842.)  However, discovery should not be
denied if the information sought has any relevance to the subject
matter. Thus, while relevancy is a possible ground for an objection, it is
often difficult to adequately justify it. 
(See generally Coy v. Superior
Court of Contra Costa County (1962) 58 Cal.2d 210, 217.)  “These rules are applied liberally in favor
of discovery, and (contrary to popular
belief), fishing expeditions are permissible in some
cases.”  (Gonzalez v. Superior Court (1995) 33 Cal.App.4th
1539, 1546 [internal citation omitted].)  
            Here, the complaint
sets forth no facts indicating that the process for auctioning is relevant in
any manner.  Similarly, Defendant DeBord’s
answer does not demonstrate that the process of auctioning is relevant.  Rather, Plaintiff contends that these SROGs
are relevant in light of Defendant Auctions’ responses to SROGs Nos. 44-49 and
a letter from Defense Counsel prior to the instant action being filed.  (Kanter Decl. ¶¶ 6, 8, Exhs. B-C.)  
            In the December 22,
2021 letter from Defense Counsel, Defense Counsel on behalf of Defendants
asserted that Plaintiff was an independent contractor and that during the
relevant time period, Plaintiff’s “unprofessional conduct, disorganization, and
general ineptitude caused significant damages to the auction house.”  (Kanter Decl. ¶ 8, Exh. C.)  Defense Counsel continued that Plaintiff’s
“conduct created expense and chaos, for example with the dereliction of his
responsibilities in tracking auction items, that caused valuable property to be
‘misplaced’ and only recovered after needlessly wasting the company's time and
money.”  (Kanter Decl. ¶ 8, Exh. C.)  In response to SROGs Nos. 44-49, Defendant
Auctions similarly asserted that Plaintiff’s job performance was inadequate.  (Kanter Decl. ¶ 6, Exh. B.) 
            In light of Defendant
Auctions’ responses, SROGs regarding Plaintiff’s specific job and job
performance are relevant to the claim for wrongful termination in order to
enable Plaintiff to counter the defense that Plaintiff was terminated for a
legitimate reason.  (See e.g., Mackey
v. Board of Trustees of California State University (2019) 31
Cal.App.5th 640, 673, [“As the party moving for summary judgment, [Defendant]
could either demonstrate that plaintiffs could not prove a prima facie case of
race discrimination, or provide legitimate, nondiscriminatory
reasons for any adverse action alleged.”].)   
However, a full description of the process of auctioning items,
assessing prospective items, or tracking auction items is relevant only insofar
as it relates to Plaintiff’s job performance. 

            Accordingly, Plaintiff’s
motion to compel Defendant DeBord’s further response to SROGs Nos. 43, 44, and
45 is granted as modified to limit these SROGs to require a description of Plaintiff’s
role in auctioning, assessing prospective items, and tracking auction items and
those portions of auction processes, assessment of prospective items, and
tracking auction items in which Plaintiff participated and with which Plaintiff
was involved during his time working with Defendants.
 
SROG No. 65
            “State the name, last
known residential address, age, sex/gender, and race of the person who assumed
Plaintiff’s duties on or after October 7, 2021.”  (SROG No. 65.)
            “Responding Party
incorporates each of its General Objections herein. Responding Party further
objects on the grounds that the Interrogatory seeks confidential and
proprietary information, invades third-part privacy rights, is vague and
ambiguous, compound, overly broad, unduly burdensome, beyond the scope of the
Complaint and is not reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of
admissible evidence.”  (Response to SROG
No. 65.)
 
            Defendant’s
Objections
            For the reasons
stated above as to SROGs No. 43-45, Defendant DeBord’s general objections and compound,
confidentiality, burdensome, and ambiguity objections are overruled.  However, the objection based on third-party
privacy is warranted.  
            As noted above,
“‘Courts have frequently recognized that individuals have a substantial
interest in the privacy of their home.’ [Citation.]”  (Puerto, supra, 158 Cal.App.4th at
p.1252.)  As SROG No. 65 seeks the
identification of a third-party’s residence, SROG No. 65 invades third-party
privacy.  While this privacy invasion may
be limited, at a minimum, some direct relevance is required to demonstrate why
Plaintiff’s replacement’s name, address, age, sex/gender, and race are
relevant.  
            Here, there is no direct relevance
as to Plaintiff’s replacement’s age, sex/gender, and race.  The complaint asserts five wage and hour
claims and a claim for violations of Business and Professions Code §§
17200-17208 based on those wage and hour violations.  
(Complaint ¶¶ 20-59.)  In support of Plaintiff’s
termination (FEHA) claim, the Complaint alleges that Defendants retaliated against
Plaintiff for protesting illegal discrimination relating to an unspecified
protected characteristic.  (Complaint ¶
72.)  Critically, Plaintiff does not
allege that he was discriminated against. 
Nor does Plaintiff allege that he was a part of a protected class under
FEHA.  Thus, the identity, address, age,
sex/gender, and race of Plaintiff’s replacement is not sufficiently relevant to
overcome the third-party privacy.  The
fact that Plaintiff could at some point make such a claim is not sufficiently
relevant to overcome the third-party privacy. 
(Separate Statement at p.27:3-6, [“While not directly relevant to a
claim that Plaintiff currently makes, the age, sex/gender, and race may also be
relevant to any future claim/allegations that he might make with regard to the
reasons or basis for his constructive termination.”].)
            However, Plaintiff’s replacement’s name
and address are relevant to enable Plaintiff to seek further discovery of the
duties of Plaintiff’s replacement, whether Plaintiff’s replacement has been
treated as an independent contractor or employee, and any statements made to Plaintiff’s
replacement regarding Plaintiff’s status.
            Accordingly, Plaintiff’s motion to
compel Defendant DeBord’s further response to SROG No. 63 is denied.
 
SROG No. 66
            “Specify each and
every false and defamatory statement Plaintiff made to third parties.”  (SROG No. 66.)
            “Responding Party
incorporates each of its General Objections herein. Responding Party further
objects on the grounds that the Interrogatory seeks information equally
available to Plaintiff, is duplicative and cumulative of prior Interrogatories,
is vague and ambiguous, compound, overly broad, unduly burdensome, beyond the
scope of the Complaint and is not reasonably calculated to lead to the
discovery of admissible evidence.” 
(Response to SROG No. 66.)
 
            Defendant’s
Objections
            For the reasons
stated above as to SROGs No. 43-45, Defendant DeBord’s general objections and
compound, confidentiality, burdensome, ambiguity, and third-party privacy
objections are overruled.  As to the objection
that the information is equally available to Plaintiff, the Court disagrees because
Plaintiff is not claiming that he made any defamatory statements.  Plaintiff is entitled to discovery what statements
Defendant DeBord attributes to Plaintiff that Defendant DeBord believes were
defamatory.
            However, as to relevance,
Defendants have not asserted any defamation claim.  The only relevance Plaintiff claims is in
light of the December 22, 2021 letter from Defense Counsel on behalf of Defendants
claiming that at an unspecified point Plaintiff contacted Defendant Auctions’
clients and made defamatory remarks. 
(Kanter Auctions Decl. ¶ 8, Exh. C.) 
The claimed defamatory remarks could be relevant to whether Defendants
had a legitimate, non-retaliatory reason for terminating Plaintiff.  However, as phrased, the SROG is overbroad in
that it would require Defendants to identify all claimed remarks at any time, including
those made after Plaintiff’s termination, which are not relevant to
Plaintiff’s claims.
Accordingly, Plaintiff’s motion to compel Defendant DeBord’s further
response to SROG No. 66 is granted as temporarily limited to alleged defamatory
statements made against Defendants between March 8, 2021 and October 7,
2021.  
 
SROG No. 71
            “IDENTIFY with
specificity any and all auctions undertaken by YOU from on or about January 1,
2017 to January 1, 2022, including the date of each auction, the place of each
auction, and the manner in which each auction was conducted.”  (SROG No. 71.)
            “Responding Party
incorporates each of its General Objections herein. Responding Party further
objects on the grounds that the Interrogatory seeks confidential and
proprietary information, invades third-party privacy rights, seeks information
equally available to Plaintiff, is duplicative and cumulative of prior
Interrogatories, is vague and ambiguous, compound, overly broad, unduly
burdensome, beyond the scope of the Complaint and is not reasonably calculated
to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence.”  (Response to SROG No. 71.)
 
            Defendant’s Objections
            For the reasons
stated above as to SROGs No. 43-45, Defendant DeBord’s general objections and compound,
confidentiality, burdensome, ambiguity, and third-party privacy objections are overruled.  As to the “equally available” objections, there
is no indication that Plaintiff has the same access to records that Defendant DeBord
does regarding any auctions that took place with Defendant Auctions.  (Bunnell v. Superior Court of Alameda
County (1967) 254 Cal.App.2d 720, 724, [“There is statutory precedent in
California for placing the burden of research on the propounder of the
interrogatory where the records from which the research is to be done are
equally available to him.”], [Italics Added].)  Presumably, Plaintiff no longer has access to
Defendant Auctions’ records at all. 
Thus, the objection based on the information being equally available is
inapplicable.  
            However, the Court
agrees that the request is overbroad. 
There is no explanation as to why records from auctions occurring for
years before and after Plaintiff’s employment are relevant to the instant
action.  Accordingly, Plaintiff’s motion
to compel Defendant Auctions further response to SROG No. 71 is granted as
limited to auctions with which Plaintiff was involved.
 
Sanctions
Plaintiff seeks sanctions of $8,575.00
against Defendant DeBord and his counsel of record.  (Kanter Decl. ¶ 15.)  
            “The
court shall impose a monetary sanction … against any party, person, or attorney
who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel a response
to [request for production], unless it finds that the one subject to the
sanction acted with substantial justification or that other
circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.”  (CCP § 2031.300(c); CCP § 2030.290(c).)  
            Here, Plaintiff has achieved only a mixed
result.  As discussed above, the Court is
granting Plaintiff’s requests with limitations in scope, to which the parties
should have reasonably been able to stipulate with a more genuine and robust
meet and confer effort.  Accordingly, the
Court finds that the imposition of sanctions would be unjust, and Plaintiff’s
request for sanctions is DENIED.

 
CONCLUSIONS AND
ORDER
Based on the foregoing, Plaintiff Kendall
Capps’s motion to compel Defendant Jason DeBord’s further response to Special
Interrogatories, Set One is GRANTED IN PART.
Within fifteen (15) days of notice of this
order, Defendant Jason DeBord is to provide further, code compliant, verified
responses without objection as to Special Interrogatories No. 43, 44, and 45 as
limited to describing Plaintiff’s role in auctioning, assessing prospective
items, and tracking auction items and those
portions of auction processes, assessment of prospective items, and tracking
auction items in which Plaintiff participated and with which Plaintiff was
involved during his time working with Defendants, Special
Interrogatory No. 65 as limited to Plaintiff’s
replacement’s name and address, Special Interrogatory No. 66 as temporarily
limited to alleged defamatory statements made against Defendants between March
8, 2021 and October 7, 2021, and Special Interrogatory No. 71 as limited to
auctions with which Plaintiff was involved. The motion is otherwise DENIED.
Plaintiff’s requests for sanctions are
DENIED.
Moving Party is to give notice and file
proof of service of such to all parties.
 
DATED:
November 30, 2023                                                 ___________________________
                                                                                          Elaine
Lu
                                                                                          Judge
of the Superior Court