 Case Number:  22STCV34766    Hearing Date:   March 7, 2024    Dept:  31 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Kerry Bensinger, Department 31
 
 
HEARING DATE:      March 7, 2024                                               TRIAL DATE:  November
18, 2024
                                                           
CASE:                         Suma Gowda v. Healthpiper LLC, et al.
 
CASE NO.:                      22STCV34766
 





















 
MOTIONS
TO COMPEL FURTHER RESPONSES TO DISCOVERY 



 
MOVING PARTY:               Plaintiff
Suma Gowda
 
RESPONDING PARTY:     Defendants healthPiper
LLC and healthPiper PC
 
 
I.          BACKGROUND
 
On October 31, 2022, Plaintiff, Suma Gowda, filed this employment
action against Defendants, healthPiper LLC, healthPiper PC, and Dr. Joshua
Edward Freedman.
 
On February 2, 2023, Plaintiff served healthPiper LLC and
healthPiper PC (collectively, “healthPiper Defendants”) with Special
Interrogatories, Set One, and Requests for Production of Documents, Set One.  On
April 7, 2023, after Plaintiff granted four extensions to respond to discovery,
healthPiper Defendants served objection-only responses.  Plaintiff took issue with the responses.  Thereafter, the parties met and conferred
resulting in healthPiper Defendants serving supplemental responses on April 25,
2023 and October 16, 2023 to a portion of Plaintiff’s discovery requests.  Plaintiff still found the responses to be
deficient.  
 
On December 1, 2023, the parties participated in an Informal
Discovery Conference (IDC).  The issues
were not resolved at the IDC.  The court
ordered the parties to meet and confer and directed Plaintiff to prepare a
Notice of Outcome regarding the meet and confer conference.  
 
On December 13, 2023, Plaintiff filed a Notice of
Outcome.  The Notice states, in relevant
part, that healthPiper Defendants agreed to provide further information and
documents responsive to various interrogatories and production requests by
January 12, 2024.  The Notice also states
that the deadline for Plaintiff to file motion to compel further responses is
extended to March 14, 2024.
 
On January 12, 2024, healthPiper Defendants served additional
documents which were not responsive to the at-issue productions requests.  Further, healthPiper Defendants did not
provide further responses to the at-issue special interrogatories.  
 
The parties met and conferred once more.  healthPiper Defendants served responses to
some of the special interrogatories on January 26, 2024, but did not produce
any additional documents.  
 
On February 13, 2024, Plaintiff filed these motions to
compel healthPiper Defendants to provide further responses to Special
Interrogatories (“SROG”), Nos. 8-13, 34, and 45-48, and Requests for Production
of Documents (“RPD”), Nos. 5, 6, 8, and 15-19. 
Plaintiff requests sanctions against healthPiper Defendants and their
counsel of record.
 
healthPiper Defendants filed oppositions.  Plaintiff filed replies.
 
II.        LEGAL
STANDARDS FOR COMPELLING FURTHER RESPONSES 
 
            Under Code
of Civil Procedure sections 2030.300 and 2031.310, parties may move for a
further response to interrogatories and requests for production of documents  where an answer to the requests are evasive or
incomplete or where an objection is without merit or too general.¿ A motion to
compel further response to requests for production “shall set forth specific
facts showing good cause justifying the discovery sought by the inspection
demand.”¿ (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.310, subd. (b)(1).)¿¿ 
¿ 
Notice of the motions must be given within 45 days of
service of the verified response, otherwise, the propounding party waives any
right to compel a further response.¿ (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 2030.300, subd. (c);
2031.310, subd. (c).)¿ The motions must also be accompanied by a meet and
confer declaration.¿ (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 2030.300, subd. (b)(1); 2031.310,
subd. (b)(2).)¿¿ 
¿ 
Finally, Cal. Rules of Court, Rule 3.1345 requires that all
motions or responses involving further discovery contain a separate statement
with the text of each request, the response, and a statement of factual and
legal reasons for compelling further responses.¿ (Cal. Rules of Court, Rule
3.1345, subd. (a)(3).)¿ 
             
Monetary
Sanctions¿¿ 
 
            Code of
Civil Procedure section 2023.030 is a general statute authorizing the Court to
impose discovery sanctions for “misuse of the discovery process,” which
includes (without limitation) a variety of conduct such as: making, without
substantial justification, an unmeritorious objection to discovery; making an
evasive response to discovery; and unsuccessfully and without substantial
justification making or opposing a motion to compel or limit discovery.¿ (Code
Civ. Proc., § 2023.010.)¿¿¿ 
 
            If
sanctions are sought, Code of Civil Procedure section 2023.040 requires that
the notice specify the identity of the person against whom sanctions are sought
and the type of sanction requested, that the motion be supported in the points
and authorities, and the facts be set forth in a declaration supporting the
amount of any monetary sanction.¿¿ 
 
            If the
court finds that a party has unsuccessfully made or opposed a motion to compel
responses to interrogatories or inspection demands, the court “shall impose a
monetary sanction . . . unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction
acted with substantial justification or that other circumstances make the
imposition of the sanction unjust.”¿ (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 2030.290, subd. (c),
2031.310, subd. (h).)¿¿¿  
 
Sanctions against counsel:¿ The court in Kwan
Software Engineering, Inc. v. Hennings (2020) 58 Cal.App.5th 57, 81 (Hennings)
noted that discovery sanctions against an attorney are governed by a different
standard than sanctions against a party:¿¿¿¿ 
¿¿ 
By the terms of the statute, a trial court under section
2023.030(a) may not impose monetary sanctions against a party’s attorney unless
the court finds that the attorney “advised” the party to engage in the conduct
resulting in sanctions. (§ 2023.030(a); Ghanooni v. Super Shuttle (1993)
20 Cal.App.4th 256, 261, 24 Cal.Rptr.2d 501.)¿ “Unlike monetary sanctions
against a party, which are based on the party's misuse of the discovery
process, monetary sanctions against the party's attorney require a finding the
‘attorney advis[ed] that conduct.’ ” (Ibid.) “It is not enough that the
attorney's actions were in some way improper.” (Corns v. Miller (1986)
181 Cal.App.3d 195, 200, 226 Cal.Rptr. 247 (Corns).) Because an
attorney's advice to a client is “peculiarly within [his or her] knowledge,”
the attorney has the burden of showing that he or she did not counsel discovery
abuse. (Ibid.) Accordingly, when a party seeking sanctions against an
attorney offers sufficient evidence of a misuse of the discovery process, the
burden shifts to the attorney to demonstrate that he or she did not recommend
that conduct. (Id. at pp. 200–201, 226 Cal.Rptr. 247; Ghanooni,
at p. 262, 24 Cal.Rptr.2d 501.)¿
 
III.       DISCUSSION
 
1.     
Procedural
Requirements 
 
Unless notice of the motion is given within 45 days of the
service of the verified response, or any supplemental verified response, or any
specific later date to which the requesting party and the responding party have
agreed in writing, the requesting party waives any right to compel further
response to the interrogatory, demand for inspection, or request for
admission.¿ (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 2030.290, subd. (c), 2031.290, subd. (c).)¿
Here, Plaintiff filed these motions on February 13, 2024 which is consistent
with the parties written agreement. 1 (See 12/13/23 Notice of
Outcome.)¿ Accordingly, the motions are timely.¿ 
 
healthPiper Defendants attack the timeliness of these
motions on another ground.  Specifically,
they contend the motions were not timely filed in relation to the March 7, 2024
hearing date.  Motions must be filed at
least sixteen (16) court days before the hearing. (Code Civ. Proc., § 1005,
subd. (b).)  An additional two (2) court
days are added when serving electronically. (Code Civ. Proc., § 1010.6, subd. (a)(2)(B).)  Accounting as well for court holidays, the
deadline to file these motions was February 8, 2024.  healthPiper Defendants are therefore technically
correct.  However, the argument is not
well-taken because healthPiper Defendants have been aware of the issues raised
by these motions for over a year.  healthPiper
Defendants fail to point to any prejudice resulting from Plaintiff’s untimely
filings.  Indeed, there is no prejudice
where, as here, healthPiper Defendants were able to respond to the merits of
Plaintiff’s motions.  The issues have
been briefed and are ripe for review. The court exercises its discretion to
consider the merits.  (See Cal. Rules of
Court, rule 3.1300(d).)
 
healthPiper Defendants next attack these motions based on
Plaintiff’s alleged failure to meet and confer prior to filing these motions as
to some of the at-issue discovery requests. 
This argument is also not well-taken. 
As detailed above, the parties engaged in numerous meet and confer
conferences and an IDC.  Plaintiff’s
motions are supported by meet and confer declarations.  (See Tojarieh Decls.)  Notwithstanding these efforts, the impasse on
the discovery responses persists.  The
procedural requirements have been met.[1]  
 
2.     
Special
Interrogatories 
      
Plaintiff seeks an order compelling a further response to SROG
Nos. 8-13.
 
SROG No. 8-13
 
Nos. 8-13 seek the following information:
 
No.
8: For each PERSON who has an equity share in YOUR business, state the amount
of equity they own and the date they received it. 
No.
9: IDENTIFY all venture capital firms, private investors, or any other
investors who invested in YOUR business. 
No.
10: For each PERSON who invested in YOUR business, state the amount they
invested and the date they made the investment. 
No.
11: If YOU received a valuation for YOUR business, state in details all facts
concerning the valuation, including the date YOU received the valuation, the
amount of the valuation, and the PERSON who provided you with valuation. 
No.
12: State YOUR gross revenues for each year during the RELEVANT TIME PERIOD. 
No.
13: State YOUR profits for each year during the RELEVANT TIME PERIOD.
            
            In
response, healthPiper Defendants asserted the same general, boilerplate objections
to each request based on the following laundry list: vagueness, ambiguity,
uncertainty, not reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible
evidence, unduly burdensome, and speculation. 
They also asserted objections based on attorney-client privilege,
attorney work product doctrine, and privacy. 
None of the objections are well taken.  healthPiper Defendants do not demonstrate how
the foregoing discovery requests are vague, ambiguous, uncertain or intrude
upon privilege.  To the contrary the
requests are sufficiently clear and do not, on their face, seek information
implicating any privilege. As Plaintiff points out, Nos. 8-13 do not inquire
into oral or written communication between healthPiper Defendants and their
attorney nor do they seek attorney work product.  And even if Nos. 8-13 sought identification of
a document protected by the work-product doctrine (they do not), healthPiper
Defendants would still be required to identify the documents.  (See Hernandez v. Superior Court
(2003) 112 Cal.App.4th 285, 293 [“[i]f an interrogatory asks the responding
party to identify a document, an adequate response must include a description
of the document.”].)  Moreover, these
requests are directly relevant to Plaintiff’s claims and damages. Further, any
privacy concerns are obviated by the protective order entered into by the parties.  (Tojarieh Decl., Ex. 26.)  Further responses are warranted. 
 
3.     
Requests for
Production
 
Plaintiff seeks an order compelling a further response to RPD,
Nos. 5, 6, 8, and 15-19, 
 
            RPD Nos.
5, 6, 8
 
            Nos. 5, 6,
and 8 concern communications between Plaintiff, Defendant Dr. Joshua Freedman,
and third parties.  healthpiper
Defendants represent the following.  During
meet and confer efforts, healthPiper Defendants agreed to a rolling production
of documents and engaged an e-Discovery vendor to undertake the data collection
process.  In all, the data at issue
consists of 131,783 documents which will require an additional four to five
weeks for attorney review prior to production. 
(See Ledergerber Decl.)  Based on
the foregoing, healthPiper Defendants argue the motions should be denied
because Plaintiff filed them notwithstanding Healthpiper’s  good faith efforts and communications
regarding the production of the documents. 

 
            In Reply,
Plaintiff argues these are misrepresentations. 
In support, Plaintiff refers the court to the Notice of Outcome filed on
December 13, 2023 wherein healthPiper Defendants unequivocally stated they would
produce all communications responsive to Nos. 5, 6, and 8 by January 12, 2024.  
 
            The Notice
of Outcome supports Plaintiff’s position. 
(See 12/13/23 Notice of Outcome, ¶ 2.) 
There is no language contemplating a rolling production.  healthPiper Defendants, without question,
agreed to produce the documents by January 12, 2024.  In essence, Plaintiff seeks to compel
compliance rather than a further response.  If a party filing a response to a demand for
inspection, copying, testing or sampling thereafter fails to permit the
inspection, copying, testing, or sampling in accordance with that party’s
statement of compliance, the demanding party may move for an order compelling
compliance.¿ (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.320, subd. (a).)  The court
construes Plaintiff’s motion accordingly. 
healthPiper Defendants must produce the documents.   
 
            RPD Nos.
15-19
 
            Nos. 15-19
seek the following:
 
No.
15: Each and every DOCUMENT reflecting the amount of equity any PERSON has in
YOUR business. 
No.
16: Each and every DOCUMENT reflecting investments made by any venture capital
firms, private investors, or any other investors in YOUR business. No. 17: Each
and every DOCUMENT reflecting any valuations YOU received for YOUR business. 
No.
18: Each and every DOCUMENT reflecting YOUR annual revenues during the RELEVANT
TIME PERIOD. 
No.
19: Each and every DOCUMENT reflecting YOUR annual profits during the RELEVANT
TIME PERIOD.
 
            In response,
healthPiper Defendants asserted the same general, boilerplate objections to
each request based on the following (albeit shorter) list: vagueness,
ambiguity, uncertainty, not reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of
admissible evidence, unduly burdensome, and privacy.  None of the objections are well taken.  healthPiper Defendants do not demonstrate how
the foregoing discovery requests are vague, ambiguous, uncertain or intrude
upon privilege.  To the contrary the
requests are sufficiently clear.  These
requests are directly relevant to Plaintiff’s claims and damages. Further, any
privacy concerns are obviated by the protective order the parties entered
into.  (Tojarieh Decl., Ex. 26.)  
 
            healthPiper
Defendants argue the motion should be denied as to RPD Nos. 15-19 because healthPiper
LLC and healthPiper PC are different entities with different responses to these
discovery requests.  healthPiper
Defendants confuse the analysis.  The
issue here is whether the objections interposed were different.  As it stands, each defendant asserted the
same objections.  healthPiper Defendants
do not show otherwise.   Absent that showing, the court finds both
healthPiper LLC and healthPiper PC asserted the same, baseless objections to
RPD Nos. 15-19.  It is therefore proper
to evaluate the merit of those objections in this single motion.  The court also notes that the responses to
RPD Nos. 15-19 are not code compliant. 
The Code of Civil Procedure contemplates three forms of proper responses
to a request for production: (1) a statement of compliance in full or in part
(CCP § 2031.220); (2) a statement of inability to comply (CCP § 2031.230);
and (3) a partial objection coupled with a statement of compliance or
representation of inability to comply (CCP § 2031.240).¿¿healthPiper Defendants
are not in compliance.  Further responses
are warranted.
 
4.     
Monetary
Sanctions
 
            Plaintiff
requests sanctions against healthPiper Defendants and their counsel.  Given the Court has granted these motions,
sanctions are warranted.  Pursuant to Hennings, supra,
imposition of monetary sanctions against counsel is also proper unless counsel
shows that he or she did not counsel the discovery abuse.¿ (Hennings, 58
Cal.App.5th at p. 81.)¿ Defense counsel does not meet their burden. 
Accordingly, sanctions are imposed against healthPiper LLC, healthPiper PC, and
their attorney of record in the amount of $2,852.44, consisting of four hours
at plaintiff’s counsel’s hourly rate and $152.44 in filing fees.
 
IV.       CONCLUSION
 
            The motions
to compel further responses to Special Interrogatory, Set One, Nos. 8-13, and Requests
for Production of Documents, Set One, Nos. 15-19 are GRANTED.  Defendants healthPiper LLC and healthPiper PC
are ordered to provide further responses within 20 days of this order.
 
            The motion
to compel further responses to Requests for Production of Documents Nos. 5, 6,
8, construed as a motion to compel compliance, is GRANTED.  Defendants healthPiper LLC and healthPiper PC
are ordered to produce the documents responsive to these requests within 20
days of this order. 
 
            The motion
to compel further responses to Special Interrogatory, Set One, Nos. 34, and
45-48 is MOOT.
 
            The request
for sanctions is GRANTED.  Defendants
healthPiper LLC and healthPiper PC and their counsel of record are ordered to
pay, jointly and severally, sanctions in the sum of $2,852.44, to be paid to
Plaintiff, by and through her counsel within 30 days of this order.
 
Moving party to give notice. 

 
Dated:   March 7, 2024                                   




 


   




 


  Kerry Bensinger  
  Judge of the Superior Court 




                                                
 


