  Case Number:  20STCV05359    Hearing Date:   April 11, 2024    Dept:  F51  APRIL 10, 2024    DEMURRER  Los Angeles Superior Court Case  # 20STCV05359   Demurrer Filed: 11/3/23   MOVING PARTY: Defendant FPI Management, Inc. (“Moving  Defendant”) RESPONDING PARTY: Plaintiffs  Katrin Silvestro and Jorge A. Rodriguez (collectively, “Plaintiffs”)  NOTICE: OK    RELIEF REQUESTED: Moving Defendant demurs to the third, fourth, fifth, seventh and eighth causes of  action in Plaintiffs’ second amended complaint (“SAC”).   TENTATIVE RULING: The demurrer is overruled as to Plaintiffs’ third cause of action, and sustained as to  the fourth, fifth, seventh and eighth causes of action without leave to amend. Moving Defendant to file an answer to  Plaintiff’s SAC, as modified, within 30 days.   BACKGROUND    Plaintiffs  bring this action alleging personal injury and monetary damages arising from bedbug  bites they sustained in February 2018 while residing at an apartment complex  owned and operated by Defendants. Moving Defendant is the managing corporation of  the apartment complex.   On 2/10/20,  Plaintiffs filed their original complaint against Defendants, alleging the  following causes of action: (1) Battery; (2) Negligence; (3) Intentional  Infliction of Emotional Distress; (4) Breach of Implied Warranty of  Habitability; (5) Breach of Covenant of Quiet Enjoyment; (6) Violation of Civil  Code Section 1942.4; (7) Private Nuisance; and (8) Public Nuisance.   On 4/13/23,  after the Court partially sustained Moving Defendant’s demurrer to Plaintiffs’  original complaint, Plaintiffs filed their FAC, alleging against Defendants the  same eight causes of action. On 10/2/23, after the Court partially sustained  Moving Defendant’s demurrer to Plaintiffs’ first amended complaint (“FAC”),  Plaintiffs filed their SAC, alleging against Defendants the same eight causes  of action.   On 11/3/23,  Moving Defendant filed the instant demurrer. On 3/28/24, Plaintiffs filed their  opposition. On 4/4/24, Moving Defendant filed its reply.   ANALYSIS   Moving Defendant  demurs to demurs to Plaintiffs’ third, fourth, and fifth causes of action for  failure to state a cause of action, and to the seventh and eighth causes of  action as duplicative of the Negligence cause of action.   A.    Meet  and Confer   Moving Defendant’s counsel declares that on 10/18/23, and  10/26/23, she telephoned Plaintiffs’ counsel in attempts to meet and confer  regarding the issues raised in the instant demurrer, but did not receive a  response. (Decl. of Jizell K. Lopez, ¶¶ 4–5.) Therefore, the Court finds that  counsel has satisfied the preliminary meet and confer requirements of  Code of Civil Procedure section 430.41, subdivision (a).   B.     Intentional  Infliction of Emotional Distress   Plaintiffs’ third cause of action  alleges against Defendants intentional infliction of emotional distress. “The  elements of a prima facie case for the tort of intentional infliction of  emotional distress are: (1) extreme and outrageous conduct by the defendant  with the intention of causing, or reckless disregard of the probability of  causing, emotional distress; (2) the plaintiff’s suffering severe or extreme  emotional distress; and (3) actual and proximate causation of the emotional  distress by the defendant’s outrageous conduct. Conduct to be outrageous must  be so extreme as to exceed all bounds of that usually tolerated in a civilized  community.” (Wilson v. Hynek (2012)  207 Cal.App.4th 999, 1009.)   Here, Moving Defendant argues that  “there are no allegations to support the claim that either of the two  Plaintiffs suffered from severe emotional distress. As there are no allegations  even describing emotional distress, there is no way for the Court to determine  if severe emotional distress has been properly pleaded.” (Dem. 4:8–10.)   The Court notes that it has already  previously found that Plaintiffs successfully alleged facts sufficient to  constitute a cause of action for Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress.  (8/23/23 Min. Order, p. 3.) Accordingly, the demurrer is overruled as to  Plaintiffs’ third cause of action.   C.    Breach  of Implied Warranty of Habitability; Breach of Implied Covenant of Quiet  Enjoyment   Plaintiffs’  fourth and fifth causes of action respectively allege against Defendants Breach  of Implied Warranty of Habitability, and Breach of Implied Covenant of Quiet  Enjoyment.   To establish a breach of the implied warranty of habitability, Plaintiffs  must establish (1) “the existence of a material defective condition affecting  the premises’ habitability,” (2) “notice to the landlord of the condition  within a reasonable time after the tenant’s discovery of the condition,” (3)  “the landlord was given a reasonable time to correct the deficiency, and” (4)  “resulting damages.” (Erlach v. Sierra  Asset Servicing, LLC (2014) 226 Cal.App.4th 1281, 1297.)   The elements of a claim for breach  of the covenant of quiet enjoyment are: (1) a lease agreement between plaintiff  and defendant; (2) absence of language contrary to the implied covenant that  tenant shall have quiet enjoyment and possession; (3) act or omission of the  landlord, or anyone claiming under the landlord, which “substantially  interfere[s] with a tenant[’]s right to use and enjoy the premises for the  purposes contemplated by the tenancy”; and (4) an applicable remedy. (See Andrews v. Mobile Aire Estates (2005)  125 Cal.App.4th 578, 588-591.)   In Stoiber v. Honeychuck  (1980) 101 Cal.App.3d 903, the Court of Appeal found that a landlord’s agents  could not be held liable in a contractual cause of action. “Although the agent  defendants may not be held liable under the implied warranty theory, causes of  action may be stated against them in tort. Since the suit for breach of the  implied warranty is essentially a contractual one, the trial court correctly  ruled the agents could not be held liable on the breach of warranty because an  agent is ordinarily not liable on the contract when he acts on behalf of a  disclosed principal.” (Stoiber, 101 Cal.App.3d at 929.)   Here, Moving Defendant again demurs against Plaintiffs’ fourth and  fifth causes of action on the basis that it is not a party to the lease  agreement, but a “designated agent for a disclosed principal,” and argues that these  contractual causes of action must therefore fail for lack of privity between  the parties. (Dem. 4:27.) In opposition, Plaintiffs note that they have now  attached the lease agreement between the parties to their complaint, along with  the added allegation that Moving Defendant is a party to the lease. (SAC ¶¶  100–101.) However, as the attached lease agreement explicitly states, Moving  Defendant signed the agreement “on behalf of, and as designated agent for,  Owner.” (Ex. A to SAC, pp. 23–24, 26–29, 31–33, 35, 37, 39–40.)   Based on  the foregoing, the Court applies the Court of Appeal’s reasoning in Stoiber to  find that Plaintiffs cannot maintain liability against Moving Defendant for their  contractual causes of action for Breach of Implied Warranty of Habitability and  Breach of Implied Covenant of Quiet Enjoyment. Accordingly, the demurrer to  Plaintiffs’ fourth and fifth causes of action is sustained without leave to  amend.   D.    Private  Nuisance; Public Nuisance   Plaintiffs’  seventh and eighth causes of action respectively allege against Defendants Private  Nuisance and Public Nuisance.   To establish an action for private nuisance,  (1) “the plaintiff must prove an interference with his use and enjoyment of his  property”; (2) “the invasion of the plaintiff’s interest in the use and  enjoyment of the land must be substantial, that is, that it causes the  plaintiff to suffer substantial actual damage”; (3) “the interference with the  protected interest must not only be substantial, but it must also be  unreasonable, i.e., it must be of such a nature, duration, or amount as to  constitute unreasonable interference with the use and enjoyment of the land.” (Mendez v. Rancho Valencia Resort Partners,  LLC (2016) 3 Cal.App.5th 248, 262–263.)   Public  nuisances are “substantial and unreasonable” “offenses against, or  interferences with, the exercise of rights common to the public.” (County of Santa Clara v. Atlantic Richfield  Co. (2006) 137 Cal.App.4th 292, 305.) However, “where negligence and  nuisance causes of action rely on the same facts about lack of due care, the  nuisance claim is a negligence claim.” (El Escorial Owner’s Association v.  DLC Plastering, Inc. (2007) 154 Cal.App.4th 1337, 1349.)   In the SAC,  Plaintiffs again maintain that the bedbug infestation “negligently and  intentionally” caused by Defendants constitutes both a private and public  nuisance. (SAC ¶¶ 125, 131.) The underlying factual allegations, namely that  Defendants failed to maintain the health and safety of the premises, are again the  same in Plaintiffs’ second cause of action for Negligence. (Id. at ¶  47.)   Moving  Defendant again argues that “Plaintiffs here again have failed to demonstrate  how the nuisance claim is different from the negligence claim,” and therefore,  under El Escorial, the nuisance causes of action must fail because they  are duplicative of Plaintiffs’ second cause of action for Negligence. (Dem. 5:22–23;154  Cal.App.4th at 1349.) In opposition, Plaintiffs argue that “the causes of  action in question are a different form of negligence. The torts of negligence  frequently coexist. They are not strictly duplicative and any duplication can  be dealt with in a verdict form at trial.” (Pls.’ Opp. 15:4–6.) However, the  Court notes that Plaintiffs do not cite to any legal authority to support these  contentions.   Based on  the foregoing, the Court finds that Plaintiffs’ causes of action for Private  Nuisance and Public Nuisance rely on the same underlying factual allegations, and  therefore are duplicative of, Plaintiffs’ Negligence cause of action.  Accordingly, as Plaintiffs have failed to cure the defects set forth in the  Court’s previous ruling, the demurrer is sustained as to Plaintiffs’ seventh  and eighth causes of action without leave to amend.   CONCLUSION    The demurrer is overruled  as to Plaintiffs’ third cause  of action, and sustained as to the fourth, fifth, seventh and eighth  causes of action without leave to amend. Moving Defendant to file an answer to Plaintiff’s SAC, as modified,  within 30 days.