  Case Number:  23CHCV00672    Hearing Date:   February 28, 2024    Dept:  F51  FEBRUARY 27, 2024    DEMURRER WITH  MOTION TO STRIKE  Los Angeles Superior Court Case  # 23CHCV00672    Demurrer Filed: 10/13/23 Motion to Strike Filed: 10/16/23   MOVING PARTY: Defendants FML Management; and Lurline  Gardens Limited Housing (collectively, “Defendants”) RESPONDING PARTY: Plaintiff  Kristen Wall (“Plaintiff”) NOTICE: OK   RELIEF REQUESTED: Defendants  demur to the first through fourth, and sixth through eleventh, causes of action  in Plaintiff’s complaint. Defendants also seek an order striking Plaintiff’s references  to punitive damages, attorney fees, statutory damages, restitution of rent, and  civil penalties from the complaint.   TENTATIVE RULING: The demurrer is: (1)    Overruled as to Plaintiff’s first, second,  fourth, sixth, tenth, and eleventh causes of action; (2)    Sustained with 30 days leave to amend as to  Plaintiff’s third  and seventh cause of  action; and (3)    Sustained without leave to amend as to  Plaintiff’s eighth and ninth causes of action.   The motion to strike is granted in part, with leave to amend.   Defendants are reminded to review the 5/3/19 First Amended  General Order Re Mandatory Electronic Filing for Civil. When e-filing  documents, parties must comply with the “TECHNICAL REQUIREMENTS” which are set  forth at page 4, line 4 through page 5, line 12 of the Court’s 5/3/19 First  Amended General Order Re Mandatory Electronic Filing for Civil (particularly bookmarking  declarations and exhibits). (CRC 3.1110(f)(4).) Plaintiff  is reminded that “all papers filed must be prepared using a font size not  smaller than 12 points,” and that “each line number must be aligned with a line  of type.” (CRC 2.108(4).) Failure to comply with these requirements in the  future may result in papers being rejected, matters being placed off calendar,  matters being continued so documents can be resubmitted in compliance with  these requirements, documents not being considered and/or the imposition of  sanctions. // // BACKGROUND    This is a  landlord-tenant action in which Plaintiff, a tenant in a rental unit located at  20800 Vintage Street, Unit 10, Chatsworth, California 91311, in a residential  property owned and operated by Defendants. (Compl. ¶¶ 1, 4.) Plaintiff alleges  that the subject property holds numerous habitability violations, “including  deteriorated carpet posing safety and trip hazard, deteriorated bathtub with  improper glazing, dysfunctional plumbing systems, deteriorated plumbing  accessories, lack of operable heater and air conditioning, cockroach  infestation, improper weatherproofing, lack of locks on windows, improper fire  protection systems, and general state of deterioration and dilapidation of  windows, doors, cabinets, frames, floors, walls, and ceilings.” (Id. at  ¶ 22.)   On 3/8/23,  Plaintiff filed her complaint against Defendants, alleging the following causes  of action: (1) Violation of California Civil Code § 1942.4; (2) Tortious Breach  of the Warranty of Habitability; (3) Private Nuisance; (4) Business and  Professions Code § 17200 et seq.; (5) Negligence; (6) Breach of Covenant of  Quiet Enjoyment; (7) Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress; (8)  Negligence Per Se; (9) Violation of Consumer Legal Remedies Act, California  Civil Code § 1750 et seq.; (10) Violation of Los Angeles Municipal Tenant  Anti-Harassment Ordinance; and (11) False Advertising, California Business  & Professions Code § 17500 et seq.   On 10/13/23,  Defendants filed the instant demurrer. On 10/16/23, Defendants filed the  instant motion to strike. On 12/11/23, Plaintiff filed her oppositions. On  2/21/24, Defendants filed their replies.   ANALYSIS   As a general matter, a party may respond to a pleading  against it by demurrer on the basis of any single or combination of eight  enumerated grounds, including that “the pleading does not state facts  sufficient to constitute a cause of action” and is uncertain, meaning  “ambiguous and unintelligible.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subds. (e) and  (f).) In a demurrer proceeding, the defects must be apparent on the face of the  pleading or via proper judicial notice.¿(Donabedian v. Mercury Ins. Co.  (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994.)¿   “A demurrer tests the pleading alone, and not the evidence  or facts alleged.” (E-Fab, Inc. v. Accountants, Inc. Servs.  (2007) 153 Cal.App.4th 1308, 1315.) As such, the court assumes the truth of the  complaint’s properly pleaded or implied factual allegations. (Ibid.) The  only issue a demurrer is concerned with is whether the complaint, as it stands,  states a cause of action. (Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th  740, 747.)    Here, Defendants  demur to the first through fourth, and sixth through eleventh, causes of action  in Plaintiff’s complaint on the bases that Plaintiff fails¿to allege facts  sufficient to¿constitute those causes of action, thereby rendering the  complaint fatally uncertain. // // // // A.    Meet  and Confer   Before filing its demurrer, “the demurring party shall meet  and confer in person or by telephone with the party who filed the pleading that  is subject to demurrer for the purpose of determining whether an agreement can  be reached that would resolve the objections to be raised in the demurrer.”  (Code Civ. Proc. § 430.41, subd. (a).) The demurring party must file and  serve a meet and confer declaration stating either: “(A) The means by which the  demurring party met and conferred with the party who filed the pleading subject  to demurrer, and that the parties did not reach an agreement resolving the  objections raised in the demurrer;” or “(B) That the party who filed the  pleading subject to demurrer failed to respond to the meet and confer request  of the demurring party or otherwise failed to meet and confer in good faith.” (Id.  at subd. (a)(3).)   Here, Defendants’ counsel declares that on 9/1/21,[1]  she and Plaintiff’s counsel met and conferred in an attempt to resolve the issues  raised in the instant demurrer and motion to strike, but the parties were  unable to come to a resolution. (Decl. of Mary Zharatanyan ¶ 3.) Accordingly, the  Court finds that counsel has satisfied the preliminary meet and confer  requirements of Code of Civil Procedure section 430.41, subdivision (a).   B.     Violation  of California Civil Code § 1942.4   Plaintiff’s  first cause of action alleges against Defendants a Violation of Civil Code  section 1942.4. Section 1942.4 provides a statutory cause of action against a  landlord who demands or collects rent, issues a notice of rent increase, or  issues a three-day notice to pay or quit pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure  section 1161, subdivision (2), when the following conditions exist: (1) the  dwelling does not satisfy the statutory conditions of habitability, safety, or  maintenance; (2) a public officer has inspected the premises and has given  written notice to the landlord of the duty to repair the substandard condition;  (3) the conditions are not corrected within 35 days after the notice without  good cause; and (4) the condition was not caused by the act or omission of the  tenant. (Civ. Code § 1942.4, subd. (a) [emphasis added].)   Here,  Defendants argue that this cause of action fails because “there are no facts  alleged of the identity of the public officer giving the specific obligations  to Defendants’ of the outcome of such inspections as set forth in Plaintiff’s  Complaint, as well as a lack of facts as to substandard conditions.” (Dem.  3:28–4:2.) “Also, the Complaint fails to provide the necessary information to  warrant the relief in this statute, including what specific violations  Defendants were written up for, how notice of such written notice was provided,  what the details of such notice were, time periods of compliance, all of which  is necessary for Defendants to defend themselves against these allegations.” (Id.  at 4:2–6.)   In  opposition, Plaintiff argues that her first “cause of action provides that the  City of Los Angeles housing inspectors provided written notice to the  Defendants of the substandard conditions.” (Pl.’s Opp. 4:13–14, citing Compl.  ¶¶ 62, 65, 67, 71, 72, 86.) In the cited portions of the complaint, Plaintiff  alleges that on 12/21/21, the Los Angeles Housing Department inspected the  premises and issued Defendants numerous citations relating to substandard  carpeting, plumbing, air conditioning, heating, sanitation, “Without good  cause, Defendants failed to abate or repair the conditions identified in one or  more of the Notice and Orders to Comply within 35 days of receiving the notice,  during which time the substandard conditions continued to exist without  abatement.” (Compl. ¶ 88.)   Based on  the foregoing allegations, the Court finds that at the demurrer stage, Plaintiff  has alleged facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action for Violation of  Civil Code section 1942.4. Accordingly, the demurrer against Plaintiff’s first  cause of action is overruled.   C.    Tortious  Breach of the Warranty of Habitability   Plaintiff’s  second cause of action alleges against Defendants a Breach of the Implied  Warranty of Habitability. “There is in California a common law implied warranty  of habitability in residential leases, and … under this warranty a landlord ‘covenants  that premises he leases for living quarters will be maintained in a habitable  state for the duration of the lease.’” (Knight v. Hallsthammar (1981) 29  Cal.3d 46, 52.) To establish a breach of the implied warranty of habitability, a  plaintiff must establish (1) “the existence of a material defective condition  affecting the premises’ habitability,” (2) “notice to the landlord of the  condition within a reasonable time after the tenant’s discovery of the  condition,” (3) “the landlord was given a reasonable time to correct the  deficiency, and” (4) “resulting damages.” (Erlach v. Sierra Asset Servicing,  LLC (2014) 226 Cal.App.4th 1281, 1297.)   Here, as a  preliminary matter, Defendants argue that Plaintiff cannot allege a breach of a  warranty implied in any purported lease agreement between the parties because “Plaintiff’s  Complaint fails to include any contract between Plaintiff and Defendants.” (Dem.  4:14–15.) Defendants further argue that “Plaintiff’s Complaint lacks any facts  indicating whether the effect on habitability of the defective conditions was  not apparent upon reasonable inspection, nor contains any facts as the  specificity of when notice was given to Defendants within a reasonable time  after discovery.” (Id. at 5:20–23.)   Plaintiff  argues in opposition that she has alleged the existence of a rental agreement  between the parties throughout her complaint, and that “discovery will  ascertain the lease agreement.” (Pl.’s Opp. 4:20.) The Court observes that  Plaintiff has indeed alleged the existence of a lease agreement in her  complaint. (Compl. ¶¶ 59, 104, 167.) Moreover, as Plaintiff notes, at the  pleading stage, “‘a plaintiff may plead the legal effect of the contract rather  than its precise language.’” (Pl.’s Opp. 3:23–25, quoting Miles v. Deutsche  Bank National Trust Co. (2015) 236 Cal.App.4th 394, 402.) Accordingly, the  Court finds that Plaintiff has sufficiently alleged a lease agreement between  the parties giving rise to an implied warranty of habitability.   As it  pertains to the remaining elements of Plaintiff’s second cause of action,  Plaintiff alleges in her complaint that the subject property contained the  following untenantable conditions: “deteriorated carpet posing safety and trip  hazard, deteriorated bathtub with improper glazing, dysfunctional plumbing  systems, deteriorated plumbing accessories, lack of operable heater and air  conditioning, cockroach infestation, improper weatherproofing, lack of locks on  windows, improper fire protection systems, and general state of deterioration  and dilapidation of windows, doors, cabinets, frames, floors, walls, and  ceilings.” (Compl. ¶ 95.) As previously noted, Plaintiff also alleges that  Defendants were cited about the defective conditions by the Los Angeles Housing  Department on 12/21/21, yet failed to remedy the conditions within 35 days. (Id.  at ¶¶ 62, 65, 67, 71, 72, 75, 88.)   Based on  the foregoing allegations, the Court finds that at the demurrer stage,  Plaintiff has alleged facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action for  Breach of the Implied Warranty of Habitability. Accordingly, the demurrer  against Plaintiff’s second cause of action is overruled.   D.    Private  Nuisance   Plaintiff’s  third cause of action alleges against Defendants Private Nuisance. To establish  an action for private nuisance, (1) “the plaintiff must prove an interference  with his use and enjoyment of his property”; (2) “the invasion of the  plaintiff’s interest in the use and enjoyment of the land must be substantial,  that is, that it causes the plaintiff to suffer substantial actual damage”; (3)  “the interference with the protected interest must not only be substantial, but  it must also be unreasonable, i.e., it must be of such a nature, duration, or  amount as to constitute unreasonable interference with the use and enjoyment of  the land.” (Mendez v. Rancho Valencia Resort Partners, LLC (2016) 3  Cal.App.5th 248, 262–263.) However, “where negligence and nuisance causes of  action rely on the same facts about lack of due care, the nuisance claim is a  negligence claim.” (El Escorial Owner’s Association v. DLC Plastering, Inc.  (2007) 154 Cal.App.4th 1337, 1349.)   Here,  Defendants argue that “Plaintiff’s nuisance claim is duplicative of her  negligence claim,” because “both causes of action tenuously rely on the same  factual predicate, being that Defendants’ alleged failure and/or refusal to  prevent and/or repair the conditions alleged affecting Plaintiff’s unit at the  Subject Property.” (Dem. 7:9, 7:21–23.)   In  opposition, Plaintiff argues that “here, the negligence and private nuisance  causes of action rely on some of the same facts about lack of due care;  however, the negligence cause of action is premised on additional separate  facts.” (Pl.’s Opp. 5:10–12 [emphasis in original].) “The causes of action rely  on separate facts, with some overlap.” (Id. at 5:24.) Plaintiff  elaborates that Defendants’ allegedly negligent conduct “encompasses their  failure to make repairs for the conditions posing a nuisance, [and] it  additionally incorporates and is based on the Defendants’  conduct in harassing the Plaintiff, refusing to accept their rent, attempting  to influence the Plaintiff to vacate the Property wrongfully, engaging in a  retaliatory eviction, and attempting to circumvent local rent control laws.”  (Id. at 5:15–18.)   In  comparing Plaintiff’s Private Nuisance and Negligence causes of action, as pled  in the complaint, the Court observes that Plaintiff’s Nuisance cause of action  mainly alleges that “Defendants’ failure to provide repairs, their refusal to  comply with complaints and/or government citations, and their lack of urgency  in providing repair created conditions, … were injurious to the Plaintiffs’  health and safety.” (Compl. ¶ 107.) Similarly, Plaintiff’s Negligence cause of  action primarily alleges that “Defendants breached this duty [of care to  Plaintiff] by failing to maintain the Property in question in a condition fit  for human occupancy, and by failing to repair all subsequent dilapidations  thereof.” (Id. at ¶ 130.) The Court finds no allegations in connection  with Plaintiff’s negligence cause of action alleging “Defendants’ conduct in  harassing the Plaintiff, refusing to accept their rent, attempting to influence  the Plaintiff to vacate the Property wrongfully, engaging in a retaliatory  eviction, and attempting to circumvent local rent control laws.” (Pl.’s Opp. 5:15–18.)   Based on  the foregoing, the Court finds that Plaintiff’s nuisance cause of action relies  on the same facts as her negligence cause of action. Accordingly, the demurrer  to Plaintiff’s third cause of action is sustained.   E.     Business  and Professions Code § 17200 et seq.   Plaintiff’s  fourth cause of action alleges that Defendants violated Business and  Professions Code section 17200 et seq. (the “UCL”). To set forth a claim for  unfair business practices in violation of the UCL, a plaintiff must establish  that the defendant was engaged in an “unlawful, unfair or fraudulent business  act or practice and unfair, deceptive, untrue or misleading advertising” and  certain specific acts. (Bus. & Prof. Code, § 17200.)   “In  essence, an action based on Business and Professions Code section 17200 to  redress an unlawful business practice ‘borrows’ violations of other laws and  treats these violations, when committed pursuant to business activity, as  unlawful practices independently actionable under section 17200 et seq. and  subject to the distinct remedies provided thereunder.” (People ex rel. Bill  Lockyer v. Fremont Life Ins. Co. (2002) 104 Cal.App.4th 508, 515.) A  plaintiff alleging an “unfair” business practice under the UCL must show that  the defendant's conduct is “tethered to an underlying constitutional, statutory  or regulatory provision, or that it threatens an incipient violation of an  antitrust law, or violates the policy or spirit of an antitrust law.” (Graham  v. Bank of America, N.A. (2014) 226 Cal.App.4th 594, 613.) “‘Fraudulent,’  as used in the statute, does not refer to the common law tort of fraud but only  requires a showing members of the public ‘are likely to be deceived.’” (Olsen  v. Breeze, Inc. (1996) 48 Cal.App.4th 608, 618.)   Here,  Defendants argue that Plaintiff’s UCL claim fails because “Plaintiff fails to  plead those statutory claims upon which the 17200 claim is based.” (Dem.  8:25–26.) Plaintiff argues in opposition that “Defendants engaged in unlawful  behavior relating to the ownership and management of the Property. Paragraphs 3  through 196 describe with factual specificity an unlawful refusal to abate  serious habitability violations which violated several statutes, including  Civil Code section 1941.1 and Health and Safety Code section 17920.3, and  several legal doctrines, including the warranty of habitability.” (Pl.’s Opp. 7:2–5.)   The Court  agrees with Plaintiff, and finds that as Plaintiff has adequately pled  Defendants’ violations of the relevant habitability laws, Plaintiff has  likewise adequately pled that Defendants engaged in “unlawful” business  practices in violation of the UCL. Accordingly, the demurrer against  Plaintiff’s fourth cause of action is overruled.   F.     Breach  of Covenant of Quiet Enjoyment   Plaintiff’s  sixth cause of action alleges against Defendants a Breach of the Implied  Covenant of Quiet Enjoyment. In every lease and rental agreement, the landlord  impliedly covenants that the tenant will have the quiet possession and  enjoyment of the premises during the lease term, except as otherwise provided  in the lease. (Civ. Code § 1927.) The elements of a claim for breach of the  covenant of quiet enjoyment are: (1) a lease agreement between plaintiff and  defendant; (2) absence of language contrary to the implied covenant that tenant  shall have quiet enjoyment and possession; (3) act or omission of the landlord,  or anyone claiming under the landlord, which “substantially interfere[s] with a  tenant[’]s right to use and enjoy the premises for the purposes contemplated by  the tenancy”; and (4) an applicable remedy. (Andrews v. Mobile Aire Estates  (2005) 125 Cal.App.4th 578, 588–591.)   The implied  covenant of quiet enjoyment and possession is breached when there is a wrongful  actual or constructive eviction of the tenant. (Standard Live Stock Co v.  Pentz (1928) 204 Cal. 618, 625.) There is a constructive eviction when  there is a substantial and material interference with the tenant’s beneficial  use and enjoyment of the premises, even though the tenant is not actually  deprived of occupancy. (Stoiber v. Honeychuck (1980) 101 Cal.App.3d 903,  925–926, “A constructive eviction occurs when the acts or omissions … of a  landlord, or any disturbance or interference with the tenant’s possession by  the landlord, renders the premises, or a substantial portion thereof, unfit for  the purposes for which they were leased, or which has the effect of depriving  the tenant for a substantial period of time of the beneficial enjoyment or use  of the premises.”)   Here,  Defendants argue that “Plaintiff fails to allege facts showing that any actual  or constructive eviction of Plaintiff occurred as a result of the actions of  Defendant.” (Dem. 10:4–5.) Based on the aforementioned allegations in  Plaintiff’s complaint regarding the nature and extent of the untenantable  conditions at the subject premises, and Defendants’ alleged failure to remedy  them, the Court finds that Plaintiff has sufficiently alleged facts to support  a constructive eviction resulting from the breach of the implied covenant of  quiet enjoyment. Accordingly, the demurrer to Plaintiff’s sixth cause of action  is overruled.   G.    Intentional  Infliction of Emotional Distress   Plaintiff’s  seventh cause of action alleges against Defendants Intentional Infliction of  Emotional Distress. “The elements of a prima facie case for the tort of  intentional infliction of emotional distress are: (1) extreme and outrageous  conduct by the defendant with the intention of causing, or reckless disregard of  the probability of causing, emotional distress; (2) the plaintiff’s suffering  severe or extreme emotional distress; and (3) actual and proximate causation of  the emotional distress by the defendant’s outrageous conduct. Conduct to be  outrageous must be so extreme as to exceed all bounds of that usually tolerated  in a civilized community.” (Wilson v. Hynek (2012) 207 Cal.App.4th 999,  1009.) A mere allegation that a plaintiff suffered severe emotional distress,  without facts indicating the nature or extent of any mental suffering incurred  as a result of the defendant’s alleged outrageous conduct, does not state a  cause of action for intentional infliction of emotional distress. (Pitman v.  City of Oakland (1988) 197 Cal.App.3d 1037, 1047–1048.)   Here,  Defendants argue that “there are no factual assertions that Defendants did  anything to deliberately cause Plaintiff emotional distress. Furthermore,  Plaintiff’s grouping together all Defendants is not sufficient to advance a  prayer for IIED.” (Dem. 11:11–13.) “The Complaint clearly fails to establish  any type of intentional or despicable conduct targeted at causing Plaintiff  severe emotional distress by Defendants, who, again, are corporate entities.” (Id.  at 11:25–27.)   The Court  agrees.  Not only are the allegations  directed at corporate entities, they lack the specificity the law requires for  this cause of action.     Accordingly,  the demurrer against Plaintiff’s seventh cause of action is sustained.   H.    Negligence  Per Se   Plaintiff’s  eighth cause of action alleges against Defendants Negligence Per Se. “The  negligence per se doctrine, as codified in Evidence Code section 669, creates a  presumption of negligence if four elements are established: (1) the defendant  violated a statute, ordinance, or regulation of a public entity; (2) the  violation proximately caused death or injury to person or property; (3) the  death or injury resulted from an occurrence of the nature of which the statute,  ordinance, or regulation was designed to prevent; and (4) the person suffering  the death or the injury to his person or property was one of the class of  persons for whose protection the statute, ordinance, or regulation was  adopted.” (Spates v. Dameron Hospital Association (2003) 114 Cal.App.4th  208, 218 [quotations omitted].) “The doctrine of negligence per se is not a  separate cause of action, but creates an evidentiary presumption that affects  the standard of care in a cause of action for negligence.” (Johnson v.  Honeywell International Inc. (2009) 179 Cal.App.4th 549, 555 [quotations  and brackets omitted].)   Here,  Defendants argue that the instant cause of action is not a separate tort, but  relies on the same underlying facts as Plaintiff’s negligence cause of action.  (Dem. 12:4.) In opposition, Plaintiff appears to agree that “the pleading of a  Negligence Per Se cause of action should be read and understood to be an  alternative theory of liability arising out of the same facts as the fifth  cause of action for Negligence.” (Pl.’s Opp. 9:18–19.) “Despite the titling as  negligence per se for the eighth cause of action, the cause of action is one  for negligence, but one which is predicated on the alternative theory that the  negligence arose from violation of statutes.” (Id. at 10:1–3.)   Based on  the foregoing, the Court finds that Plaintiff’s Negligence Per Se cause of  action is duplicative of her Negligence cause of action. Accordingly, the  demurrer against Plaintiff’s eighth cause of action is sustained without leave  to amend.   I.       Violation  of Consumer Legal Remedies Act, California Civil Code § 1750 et seq.   Plaintiff’s  ninth cause of action alleges that Defendants violated the Consumer Legal  Remedies Act, Civil Code section 1750 et seq. (the “CLRA”). “The CLRA makes  unlawful, in Civil Code section 1770, subdivision (a) … various unfair methods  of competition and unfair or deceptive acts or practices undertaken by any  person in a transaction intended to result or which results in the sale or  lease of goods or services to any consumer. … The CLRA proscribes 27 specific  acts or practices.” (Rubenstein v. The Gap, Inc. (2017) 14 Cal.App.5th  870, 880–881 [internal citations and quotations omitted].) At least 30 days  before filing a suit seeking damages, plaintiff must send the potential  defendant by mail a written notice of the alleged violations and demand  correction. (Civ. Code § 1782.) Generally, “whether a practice is deceptive,  fraudulent, or unfair is generally a question of fact which requires ‘consideration  and weighing of evidence from both sides’ and which usually cannot be made on  demurrer.’” (Brady v. Bayer Corp. (2018) 26 Cal.App.5th 1156, 1164.)   Here,  Defendants argue that Plaintiff has not adequately pled that she provided  Defendants with the statutorily required notice. “This cause of action contains  no allegations of notices in writing, or whether such notices, if any, were  sent by certified or registered mail.” (Dem. 13:9–11.)   Plaintiff  argues in opposition that “Civil Code § 1782 provides that, ‘An action for  injunctive relief brought under the specific provisions of Section 1770 may be  commenced without compliance with subdivision (a),’ i.e. that an action for  injunctive relief does not require a 30 day notice to the Defendant.” (Pl.’s  Opp. 11:4–7.) While the Court observes that Civil Code section 1782,  subdivision (d), does indeed provide an exception to the 30-day notice  requirement, this exception applies only to complaints for injunctive relief. Here,  in contrast, Plaintiff’s complaint seeks only money damages and not injunctive  relief. Moreover, this exception requires that “not less than 30 days after the  commencement of an action for injunctive relief, and after compliance with  subdivision (a), the consumer may amend his or her complaint without leave of  court to include a request for damages.” (Civ. Code § 1782, subd. (d).) Here,  Plaintiff concedes in her opposition that she failed to provide Defendants with  the requisite 30-day notice. (Pl.’s Opp. 11:7–8.)   Based on  the foregoing, the Court finds that Plaintiff has not sufficiently alleged  compliance with the 30-day notice requirement under Civil Code section 1782,  nor could she. Accordingly, the demurrer against Plaintiff’s ninth cause of  action is sustained without leave to amend.   J.      Violation  of Los Angeles Municipal Tenant Anti-Harassment Ordinance   Plaintiff’s  tenth cause of action alleges against Defendants a Violation of the Los Angeles  Municipal Tenant Anti-Harassment Ordinance. The Los Angeles Municipal Tenant  Anti-Harassment Ordinance, Chapter IV, Article 5.3, defines tenant harassment  to include “failing to perform and timely complete necessary repairs and  maintenance required by Federal, State, County, or local housing, health, or  safety laws;” and “threatening to or engaging in any act or omission which  interferes with the tenant's right to use and enjoy the rental unit or whereby  the premises are rendered unfit for human habitation and occupancy.” (Los  Angeles Mun. Code, § 45.33, subds. 2, 8.)   “An  aggrieved tenant under this article, or any person, organization, or entity who  will fairly and adequately represent the interests of an aggrieved tenant(s)  under this article, may institute civil proceedings as provided by law, against  any landlord violating any of the provisions of this article and any person who  aids, facilitates, and/or incites another to violate the provisions of this  article, regardless of whether the rental unit remains occupied or has been  vacated due to harassment.” (Los Angeles Mun. Code, § 45.35, subd. A.) “A civil  proceeding or small claims case initiated under this article alleging any  violation of Section 45.33 … may be commenced only after the tenant provides  written notice to the landlord of the alleged violation, and the landlord fails  to remedy the repair or maintenance issue within a reasonable period of time.”  (Id. at subd. F.)   Here,  Defendants argue that “Plaintiff has failed to plead specific facts showing  that Plaintiff complied with Los Angeles Municipal Code Section 45.35(F) in  providing facts of specific written notice of violations to support this cause  of action.” (Dem. 14:4–6.) In opposition, Plaintiff argues that “Paragraph 183  of the complaint specifically provides that the government got involved, as a  provided, supra, the City of Los Angeles issued several citations to the  Defendants for their egregious violations related to the housing conditions  therein. City of Los Angeles housing inspectors provided written notice to the  Defendants of the substandard conditions.” (Pl.’s Opp. 10:11–15, citing Compl.  ¶¶ 62, 65, 67, 71, 72, 86.)   Based on  the foregoing allegations, the Court finds that at the demurrer stage,  Plaintiff has sufficiently alleged notice to Defendants, and has therefore also  alleged facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action Violation of the Los  Angeles Municipal Tenant Anti-Harassment Ordinance. Accordingly, the demurrer  against Plaintiff’s tenth cause of action is overruled.   K.    False  Advertising, California Business & Professions Code § 17500 et seq.   Plaintiff’s eleventh cause of  action alleges against Defendants False Advertising in violation of Business  & Professions Code section 17500 (the “FAL”). The FAL prohibits public  dissemination of any untrue or misleading advertising in connection with the  disposal of any real or personal property or performance of services to  consumers in the State of California. (Bus. & Prof. Code § 17500.) The  false advertisement must be “such that it is probable that a significant  portion of the general consuming public or of targeted consumers, acting  reasonably in the circumstances, could be misled.” (Lavie v. Procter &  Gamble Co. (2003) 105 Cal.App.4th 496, 508.)   Here, Defendants argue that “Plaintiff  has failed to differentiate all Defendants’ as to which false or misleading  statement was made, whether there was an intent to make the public enter an  obligation and, importantly, any facts alleged that Defendants were seeking to  deceive consumers of ordinary intelligence.” (Dem. 14:18–21.)   The Court observes that in the  complaint, Plaintiff alleges that “since in or around June of 2015, the  Defendants have engaged in advertising to the public, including Plaintiffs, and  offering the Property for lease and rent. By advertising the Property for rent  to the public at large, the Defendants were stating, and representing, that the  Property was in a condition suitable for tenancy.” (Compl. ¶ 191.) Plaintiff  further alleges that “Defendants have engaged in the advertising herein alleged  with the intent to directly or indirectly rent the substandard and untenantable  property described herein, of which they failed to make repairs, and to rent  the Property without providing the amenities and management as promised.” (Id.  at ¶ 192.)   Based on  the foregoing allegations, the Court finds that at the demurrer stage,  Plaintiff has alleged facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action False  Advertising. Accordingly, the demurrer against Plaintiff’s eleventh cause of  action is overruled.   L.     Uncertainty   Generally  speaking, “demurrers for uncertainty are disfavored and thus are strictly  construed because ambiguities can reasonably be clarified under modern rules of  discovery. Such demurrers are granted only if the pleading is so  incomprehensible that defendant cannot reasonably respond.” (Cal.Jur.3d § 137.)  “Where the complaint contains substantive factual allegations sufficiently  apprising defendant of the issues it is being asked to meet, a demurrer for  uncertainty should be overruled or plaintiff given leave to amend.” (Williams  v. Beechnut Nutrition Corp. (2011) 185 Cal.App.3d 135, 139 fn.2.)   In applying  the stringent standard for demurrers filed on this ground, the Court finds that  Plaintiff’s complaint is not “so incomprehensible” that Defendants cannot  respond to it, particularly where Defendants have offered substantive arguments  in opposition thereto. Even where a complaint is in some respects uncertain,  ambiguities can be clarified under modern discovery procedures. (A.J. Fistes  Corp. v. GDL Best Contractors, Inc. (2019) 38 Cal.App.5th 677, 695.)   MOTION TO STRIKE    The court  may, upon a motion, or at any time in its discretion, and upon terms it deems  proper, strike any irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted in any  pleading. (Code Civ. Proc., § 436, subd. (a).) The court may also strike all or  any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of this  state, a court rule, or an order of the court. (Id., § 436, subd. (b).)  The grounds for moving to strike must appear on the face of the pleading or by  way of judicial notice. (Id., § 437.)    A.    Punitive  Damages   Punitive  damages may be recovered upon a proper showing of malice, fraud, or oppression  by clear and convincing evidence. (Civ. Code § 3294, subd. (a).) “Malice” is  defined as conduct intended to cause injury to a person or despicable conduct  carried on with a willful and conscious disregard for the rights or safety of  others. (Id. at subd. (c); Turman v. Turning Point of Cent. Cal.,  Inc. (2010) 191 Cal.App.4th 53, 63.) “Oppression” means despicable conduct  subjecting a person to cruel and unjust hardship, in conscious disregard of the  person’s rights. (Ibid.) “Fraud” is an intentional misrepresentation,  deceit, or concealment of a material fact known by defendant, with intent to  deprive a person of property, rights or otherwise cause injury. (Ibid.)   1.       Malice, Fraud, or Oppression   Punitive  damages must be supported by factual allegations. Conclusory allegations,  devoid of any factual assertions, are insufficient to support a conclusion that  parties acted with oppression, fraud or malice. (Smith v. Superior Court  (1992) 10 Cal.App.4th 1033, 1042; Anschutz Entertainment Group, Inc. v.  Snepp (2009) 171 Cal.App.4th 598, 643.)   Here, Defendants  argue that “Plaintiff’s allegations within the Complaint fail to show or set  for any facts that Defendants (grouped together) could be found to have  punitive damages imposed against them, let alone any acts of malice or  oppression. Also, absent from the Complaint is any intent on behalf of  Defendants (themselves corporate entities) to cause harm to Plaintiff.” (MTS 11:9–13.)   The Court  finds that the complaint, as pled, insufficiently pleads a basis for punitive  damages against Defendants based on malice or oppression.    Accordingly,  the Court finds Plaintiff has not sufficiently alleged conduct that may be  considered malicious and oppressive as defined by Civil Code section 3294.    2.       Employer Liability   “An  employer shall not be liable for [punitive] damages … based upon acts of an  employee of the employer, unless the employer had advance knowledge of the  unfitness of the employee and employed him or her with a conscious disregard of  the rights or safety of others or authorized or ratified the wrongful conduct  for which the damages are awarded or was personally guilty of oppression,  fraud, or malice. With respect to a corporate employer, the advance knowledge  and conscious disregard, authorization, ratification or act of oppression,  fraud, or malice must be on the part of an officer, director, or managing agent  of the corporation.” (Civ. Code § 3294, subd. (b).)   Defendants  argue that “Plaintiff’s Complaint only offers the conclusory allegation and  characterization, parroting the language of the statute, of Defendants conduct,  which is wholly insufficient to support punitive damages.” (MTS 13:14–16.)  Defendants further argue that “Plaintiff’s Complaint fail to identify a single  officer, director, or managing agent of Defendants who participated in,  directed, authorized, or ratified any allegedly malicious, oppressive or  fraudulent conduct.” (Id. at 13:17–19.)   Plaintiff  does not address this issue in her opposition.   Based on the foregoing, the Court finds that at this stage, Plaintiff  has insufficiently alleged that Defendants ratified/approved of the allegedly  wrongful conduct by their agents/employees. Accordingly, the Court grants  Defendants’ motion to strike portions of Plaintiff’s complaint referencing  punitive damages.   B.     Attorney  Fees   An award of  attorney fees is proper when authorized by contract, statute, or law. (Code  Civ. Proc. §§ 1032, subd. (b); 1033.5, subd. (a)(10).) Here, Plaintiff prays  for “reasonable attorney fees, in the amount of $500.00 per hour, for those  hours actually expended pursuant to California Code of Civil Procedure §  1021.5, California Civil Code § 1942.4, California Civil Code § l780(e), and  California Civil Code § 3304.” (Compl. 62:1–3.) Plaintiff also seeks to recover  attorney fees stemming from her tenth cause of action for Violation of the Los  Angeles Municipal Tenant Anti-Harassment Ordinance. (Id. at ¶ 183.)   To the  extent that Defendants contend that Plaintiff cannot recover attorney fees  stemming from her first and tenth causes of action, the Court denies the motion  to strike those portions from the Complaint, as it overrules the demurrer as to  those causes of action.   With  respect to Plaintiff’s prayer for attorney fees in connection with her CLRA  claim, as the Court sustains Defendants’ demurrer to Plaintiff’s ninth cause of  action without leave to amend, the motion to strike any related prayers for  relief therefrom is moot.   C.    Statutory  Damages, Restitution of Rent, Civil Penalties   Defendants  further seek to strike Plaintiff’s prayer for statutory damages under Civil  Code section 1942.2, restitution of rent monies under the UCL, and civil  penalties under Los Angeles Municipal Code section 45.35. As the Court  overrules the demurrer to these causes of action, the Court likewise denies  Defendants’ motion to strike the prayers for relief stemming therefrom.   Based on  the foregoing, the Court denies Defendants’ motion to strike.   LEAVE TO AMEND   Where a  demurrer is sustained, leave to amend must be allowed where there is a  reasonable possibility of successful amendment. (Goodman v. Kennedy  (1976) 18 Cal.3d 335, 348.) The burden is on the plaintiff to show the court  that a pleading can be amended successfully. (Id.; Lewis v. YouTube,  LLC (2015) 244 Cal.App.4th 118, 226.) However, “[i]f there is any  reasonable possibility that the plaintiff can state a good cause of action, it  is error to sustain a demurrer without leave to amend.” (Youngman v. Nevada  Irrigation Dist. (1969) 70 Cal.2d 240, 245).   Here, the  Court notes that this is the first demurrer brought against Plaintiff’s  original complaint. Therefore, under the Court’s liberal policy of granting  leave to amend, Plaintiff is granted 30 days leave to amend the complaint to  cure the defects set forth above, with the exception of her eighth and ninth  causes of action. Plaintiff is cautioned that “following an order sustaining a  demurrer … with leave to amend, the plaintiff may amend his or her complaint  only as authorized by the court's order. … The plaintiff may not amend the  complaint to add a new cause of action without having obtained permission to do  so, unless the new cause of action is within the scope of the order granting  leave to amend.” (Zakk v. Diesel (2019) 33 Cal.App.5th 431, 456.)   CONCLUSION    The demurrer is: (1)    Overruled as to Plaintiff’s first, second,  fourth, sixth, tenth, and eleventh causes of action; (2)    Sustained with 30 days leave to amend as to Plaintiff’s  third and seventh cause of action; and (3)    Sustained without leave to amend as to  Plaintiff’s eighth and ninth causes of action.   The motion to strike is granted in part, with leave to amend.     