  Case Number:  21STCV44845    Hearing Date:   December 12, 2024    Dept:  W CARLOS ARITA vs 7-ELEVEN INC
 
defendants’ demurrer to the fourth amended complaint
with motion to strike 
 
Date of Hearing:        December 12, 2024                     Trial Date:     None set 
Department:              W                                                   Case No.:       21STCV44845
 
Moving
Party:            Defendants Suresh Kumar
Luthra, Saroj Luthra and S and R Luthra Inc. 
Responding
Party:     Plaintiff Carlos Arita 
 
BACKGROUND
 
This is personal injury action that occurred on September 11,
2020, at a 7-Eleven franchise store located in Van Nuys, CA (the “Subject
Incident”). Plaintiff alleges he was “beat up” by Defendants while in the
7-Eleven to purchase some items. 
 
Plaintiff Carlos Josue Arita filed the original Complaint on
December 9, 2021 and filed the First Amended Complaint (“FAC”) on December 20,
2021, against defendants 7-Eleven Inc. (“Defendant”) and Does 1 to 100. On
February 17, 2023, Plaintiff added S and R Luthra Inc. (dba 7-Eleven as Doe 1,
Suresh Kumar Luthra as Doe 2, and Saroj Luthra as Doe 3. Plaintiff dismissed
7-Eleven, Inc. on March 21, 2023. 
 
The instant action is related to 22STCV28081 (Carlos Arita v.
Saros Luthra) and 22STCV28062 (Carlos Arita v. Suresh Kumar Luthra).

 
On May 4, 2023, Plaintiff filed a Second Amended Complaint. The
SAC alleges negligence and premises liability. Plaintiff added back 7-Eleven,
Inc. on December 18, 2023. On May 13, 2024, Plaintiff filed a Third Amended
Complaint after seeking leave to amend. This court granted Plaintiff’s Motion
for leave to file a Fourth Amended Complaint and on September 30, 2024,
Plaintiff filed a 4AC alleging assault, battery, negligence, false
imprisonment, and intentional infliction of emotional distress.  
 
[Tentative] Ruling
 
Defendants’ Demurrer to the Fourth Amended Complaint is OVERRULED.
Defendants’ Motion to Strike Portions of Plaintiffs’ Fourth Amended Complaint
is DENIED.  
 
REQUEST
FOR JUDICIAL NOTICE
 
Plaintiff request this court take
judicial notice of (1) Defendant’s Notice of Motion and Motion To Strike
Portions to Plaintiff’s First Amended Complaint filed with the Los Angeles
Superior Court on June 18, 2024, and heard on September 17, 2024 (Exh. 1); (2) meet
and confer e-mail of July 1, 2024, from Plaintiff’s counsel, Macauley Ekpenisi,
Esq, on Amended Complaint after consolidation of case (Exh. 2); (3) Plaintiff’s
Counsel, Macauley Ekpenisi, Esq, follow up on meet and confer of July 1, 2024
(Exh. 3); and (4) Defendant's Counsel’s responses of July 17, 2024, to the
e-mail meet and confer of July 1, 2024 (Exh. 4). 
 
The court GRANTS the request for
judicial notice as to Exhibits 1. 
 
Plaintiff also objects to Defendant’s
request for judicial notice. Specifically, the deposition transcript (Exh. B)
and police report (Exh. A). The court sustains the objections. 
 
EVIDENTIARY
OBJECTIONS
 
Plaintiff submits objections to the
demurrer on the grounds it is improper and based on an inadmissible the police
report. As noted above, the court has sustained the objection to the police
report. The court overrules the objection to the demurrer. 
 
DISCUSSION
 
Defendants Suresh Kumar Luthra, Saroj Luthra, and S and R Lutrha
Inc. demur to each cause of action of the Fourth Amended Complaint (“4AC”) on
the grounds each cause of action fails to state facts sufficient to amount to a
cause of action against Defendants and the claims are uncertain, ambiguous and
unintelligible. Defendants also move to strike portions of the 4AC including
punitive damages allegations. 
 
Defendants demur to the 4AC on the ground the 4AC makes material
omissions that contradict earlier allegations including that the alleged
incident was unprovoked including omitting the fact Plaintiff was drunk at the
scene. Defendants first argue the 4AC is vague, ambiguous and uncertain but
fails to point out anywhere in the complaint that is uncertain other than that
the fourth cause of action fails to state which of the Defendants is the target
of this count. However, demurrers for uncertainty are disfavored and should
only be sustained where the complaint is so uncertain that the demurring
defendant cannot reasonably respond. (See, e.g., Khoury v. Maly's of Calif.,
Inc. (1993) 14 Cal.App.4th 612, 616.) From the allegations of the fourth
cause of action, it is clear the claim for false arrest/imprisonment is against
both Defendants Suresh Kumar Luthra and Saroj Luthra. 
 
Next, Defendants demur to the first and second causes of action
for assault and battery on the grounds the prior allegations admitted that
Plaintiff was intoxicated and that he never paid for the items and as a result,
Defendants were trying to address a loss prevention issue. As a result,
Plaintiff cannot make a claim for assault or battery because Plaintiff cannot
allege Defendants acted with the intent to harm or offend Plaintiff. 
 
The court finds the allegations sufficient for the purposes of a
demurrer. Although Defendants state otherwise, Defendants are turning this
demurrer into a contested evidentiary hearing. The “admissions” made in the
earlier versions of the verified complaints are not so inconsistent that the
amendment would be considered a sham pleading. Plaintiff’s “removal” of the
police report and admission to being intoxicated would not necessarily
establish failure to allege facts sufficient to constitute a battery or assault
claim. Even if the allegations of intoxication and not paying for items were
included, it would be for a jury to decide whether Defendants acted with
reasonable force to protect their property/concern for loss prevention. 
 
Accordingly, Defendants’ demurrer to the first and second causes
of action is OVERRULED. 
 
Next, Defendants demur to the third cause of action for negligence
on the grounds Defendants owed no duty because as noted under prior
allegations, he was intoxicated and not acting as an ordinary customer.
Defendants contend as a result, they believed he was trying to steal
merchandise. Regardless of whether Plaintiff includes the allegations of
intoxication, the court believes the allegations sufficient to withstand a
demurrer. Nowhere in any of the versions of the complaint does it stand that
Plaintiff was the one who created the danger and therefore, Defendants did not
owe Plaintiff a duty. These type of arguments are better suited for summary
judgment or trial. 
 
Lastly, Defendants demur to the fourth cause of action for false
imprisonment on similar grounds. Defendants contend the facts that have been
alleged in earlier pleadings reveal that Defendants availed themselves of the
merchant’s privilege. Defendants claim not only was Plaintiff intoxicated when
he entered the store, but he acted suspiciously, lurking around the store, and
causing Defendants to feel concerned about his intent. Moreover, the police
report and Plaintiff's own deposition transcript shows Plaintiff was
intoxicated at the time he entered the business. Again, these arguments are
better suited for summary judgment or trial. 
 As noted by Defendants, the
standard is that the detention itself must be carried out for a reasonable
time and reasonable manner. Based on the allegations, Plaintiff has
sufficiently alleged the elements for false imprisonment. 
 
The court notes Defendants do not make any arguments regarding
Plaintiff’s claim for intentional infliction of emotional distress. 
 
Accordingly, Defendants’ Demurrer to the 4AC is OVERRULED. 
 
Motion to Strike 
 
Defendants move to strike portions of Plaintiff’s complaint for
punitive damages on the grounds Plaintiff has failed to plead facts to support
a claim for punitive damages and by pleading the facts that only serve
Plaintiff, the 4AC fails to satisfy the heightened pleading obligation to show
entitlement to punitive damages under a clear and convincing standard. 
 
The allegations supporting a request for punitive damages must be
alleged with specificity; conclusory allegations without sufficient facts are
not enough.  (Smith v. Superior Court
(1992) 10 Cal. App. 4th 1033, 1041-1042. The court concludes plaintiff has alleged
facts to support a claim for punitive damages.  He alleges two intentional torts –
assault/battery and false imprisonment.  
He claims that these actions were done with malicious and a conscious
disregard for his health and safety. 
These allegations are sufficient. 
