 Case Number:  24LBCV01423    Hearing Date:   November 5, 2024    Dept:  S25 BackgroundOn July 9, 2024, Plaintiffs filed a complaint against Defendants Ford Motor Company, Caruso Ford Lincoln and Does 1 to 10, alleging violations of the Song-Beverely Consumer Warranty Act (“SBA”), the breach of implied warranty of merchantability, fraudulent inducement – concealment and negligent repair. Plaintiffs allege that on or about April 10, 2022, a warranty contract was entered into with Defendant Ford Motor Company regarding a Certified Pre-Owned 2020 Ford Expedition, vehicle identification number 1FMJU1KT0LEA24873. (Compl., ¶ 7.) Plaintiffs assert that despite this warranty, Defendant did not offer to repurchase or replace the Subject Vehicle when the defects and nonconformities manifested during the warranty window for the Subject Vehicle. (Compl., ¶¶ 11-16.)Meet and ConferThe requirements are satisfied. (Liu Decl., ¶ 2; Code Civ. Proc., § 430.41, subd. (a)(2).)DiscussionDefendants’ demur to the to the 5th cause of action (Fraudulent Inducement-Concealment) on the grounds that the claim (1) fails to state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action and (2) is barred by the economic loss rule.The elements of a cause of action for intentional fraud are 1) misrepresentation (false representation, concealment, or nondisclosure); 2) knowledge of falsity (scienter); 3) intent to defraud or induce reliance; 4) justifiable reliance; and 5) damages. (See Cal. Civ. Code §1709.) “[T]he elements of a cause of action for fraud and deceit based on concealment are: (1) the defendant must have concealed or suppressed a material fact, (2) the defendant must have been under a duty to disclose the fact to the plaintiff, (3) the defendant must have intentionally concealed or suppressed the fact with the intent to defraud the plaintiff, (f) the plaintiff must have been unaware of the fact and would not have acted as he did if he had known of the concealed or suppressed fact, and (5) as a result of the concealment or suppression of the fact, the plaintiff must have sustained damage.” (Marketing West, Inc. v. Sanyo Fisher (USA) Corp. (1992) 6 Cal.App.4th 603, 612-613.) Fraudulent inducement is a viable tort claim under California law. ‘The elements of fraud are (a) a misrepresentation (false representation, concealment, or nondisclosure); (b) scienter or knowledge of its falsity; (c) intent to induce reliance; (d) justifiable reliance; and (e) resulting damage. Fraud in the inducement is a subset of the tort of fraud. It ‘occurs when ‘the promisor knows what he is signing but his consent is induced by fraud, mutual assent is present and a contract is formed, which, by reason of the fraud, is voidable.”’ (Dhital v. Nissan North America, Inc. (2022) 84 Cal.App.5th 828, 838-839.)Fraud actions are subject to strict requirements of particularity in pleading. (Committee on Children's Television, Inc. v. General Foods Corp. (1983) 35 Cal.3d 197, 216.) “Fraud must be pleaded with specificity… [t]o withstand a demurrer, the facts constituting every element of the fraud must be alleged with particularity, and the claim cannot be salvaged by references to the general policy favoring the liberal construction of pleadings. (Goldrich v. Natural Y Surgical Specialties, Inc. (1994) 25 Cal.App.4th 772, 782.) “This particularity requirement necessitates pleading facts which ‘show how, when, where, to whom, and by what means the representations were tendered.”’ (Stansfield v. Starkey (1990) 220 Cal.App.3d 59, 73.) “The requirement of specificity in a fraud action against a corporation requires the plaintiff to allege the names of the persons who made the allegedly fraudulent representations, their authority to speak, to whom they spoke, what they said or wrote, and when it was said or written.” (Tarmann v. State Farm Mut. Auto Ins. Co. (1991) 2 Cal.App.4th 153,157.)Plaintiff Sufficiently Pled Defect Defendant Ford Allegedly ConcealedDefendants contend that Plaintiffs’ 5th cause of action for Fraudulent Inducement – Concealment fails to allege with particularity the defect Defendants allegedly concealed. In opposition, Plaintiffs respond that the defect Defendants allegedly concealed is a “Transmission Defect” and that its description of problems caused by the defect are sufficient to give notice for pleading purposes. (Compl., ¶ 39; see Dhital v. Nissan North America, Inc. (2022) 84 Cal.App.5th 828, 844.)The court finds that Plaintiffs have sufficiently alleged with the requisite particularity the defect that Defendant Ford allegedly concealed. The Complaint’s description of the ways in which Ford Expedition transmissions may be defective and hazardous driving conditions relating generally to the purported transmission defect are sufficient. (See Dhital v. Nissan North America, Inc. (2022) 84 Cal.App.5th 828, 844 [declining to hold that plaintiffs had to include more detailed allegations in their second amended complaint considering it was alleged “the CVT transmissions were defective in that they caused such problems as hesitation, shaking, jerking, and failure to function [and] Nissan was aware of the defects as a result of premarket testing and consumer complaints that were made both to NHTSA and to Nissan and its dealers.”]; see Compl., ¶¶ 39, 72, 74-75.) Moreover, concealment may constitute actionable fraud when the defendant is “in a fiduciary relationship with the plaintiff, when the defendant had exclusive knowledge of material facts not known to the plaintiff, when the defendant actively conceals a material fact from the plaintiff, or when the defendant makes partial representations but also suppresses some material facts.” (LiMandri v. Judkins (1997) 52 Cal.App.4th 326, 336.) Here, the Complaint alleges Defendants had exclusive knowledge of material defects in the transmissions and concealed those defects from Plaintiffs at the time Plaintiffs purchased the Subject Vehicle.Plaintiffs’ Claim is Pled with the Requisite SpecificityPlaintiffs have sufficiently alleged with the requisite particularity the defect that Defendant Ford allegedly concealed. The Complaint’s description of the ways in which Ford Expedition transmissions may be defective and hazardous driving conditions relating generally to the purported transmission defect are sufficient. (See Dhital v. Nissan North America, Inc. (2022) 84 Cal.App.5th 828, 844 [declining to hold that plaintiffs had to include more detailed allegations in their second amended complaint considering it was alleged “the CVT transmissions were defective in that they caused such problems as hesitation, shaking, jerking, and failure to function [and] Nissan was aware of the defects as a result of premarket testing and consumer complaints that were made both to NHTSA and to Nissan and its dealers.”]; see Compl., ¶¶ 39, 74, 75.) While it is true that the Complaint fails to allege the names of the persons who concealed facts or knew of a transmission flaw, details of that nature are required in affirmative misrepresentation cases, not concealment cases. Further, less specificity is required if it appears from the nature of allegations that defendant., e.g. the Ford Defendants, must necessarily possess full information, or if the facts lie more in the knowledge of opposing parties. (Alfaro v. Community Housing Improvement System & Planning Assn., Inc. (2009) 171 Cal.App.4th 1356,1384-1385.) Accordingly, the Court finds that Plaintiffs' allegations are sufficiently detailed to state a cause of action for Fraudulent Inducement – Concealment. (See Compl., ¶¶ 7, 39, 40, 75, 78a-c, 49, 74, 49, 80-81, 14, 21, 83-84, 73, 76 [concealment], 39-40, 75-78a [knowledge of falsity], 79-80 [intent to induce reliance], 49, 80-81 [justifiable reliance], 14, 21, 83-84 [damages].)Plaintiffs Have Sufficiently Alleged a Duty to DiscloseThe duty to disclose arises in four ways: “(1) when the defendant is in a fiduciary relationship with the plaintiff, (2) when the defendant had exclusive knowledge of material facts not known to the plaintiff, (3) when the defendant actively conceals a material fact from the plaintiff and (4) when the defendant makes partial representations but also suppresses some material facts.” (LiMandri v. Judkins (1997) 52 Cal.App.4th 326, 336.)Plaintiffs’ Complaint provides a sufficient basis for disclosure without a transaction between the parties as it pleads (1) Defendant Ford had exclusive knowledge of material facts not known to Plaintiffs via “pre-production testing data, early consumer complaints about the Transmission Defect made directly to Defendant FMC and its network of dealers, aggregate warranty data compiled from FMC’s network of dealers, testing conducted by Defendant FMC in response to these complaints, as well as warranty repair and part replacements data received by Defendant FMC from Defendant FMC’s network of dealers, amongst other sources of internal information;” (Compl., ¶ 78a); and (2) concealment of this safety defect was material “in that a reasonable person would have considered them to be important in deciding whether or not to purchase the Subject Vehicle.” (Compl., ¶ 80.)Further, a relationship between Plaintiffs and Defendant Ford may arise from a specific contractual connection - the 2020 Model Year Ford Warranty Guide (the “Guide”). (See Compl., Ex. A.) The Guide “explains in detail the warranty coverages that apply to your 2020-model car or light truck. If you bought a previously owned 2020-model vehicle, you are eligible for any remaining warranty coverages.” (FAC, Ex. A at p. 1 [Introduction section].) The relationship arising from the warranty provided by Defendant Ford specifically to Plaintiffs, and not merely to the general public, constitutes a sufficient transactional connection to support a claim for failure to disclose. (See Scherer v. FCA US, LLC (S.D. Cal. 2021) 565 F.Supp.3d 1184, 1194 [discussion of Bigler-Engler case and holding that a failure to disclose claim is properly grounded on contractual relationship reflected in the warranty agreement].)The Economic Loss Rule Does Not Bar Plaintiffs’ ClaimIn Rattagan v. Uber Technologies, Inc. (2024) 324 Cal.Rptr.3d 433, the Court found that “[w]hen evaluating whether the parties' expectations and risk allocations bar tort recovery, the court must consider the alleged facts. First, applying standard contract principles, it must ascertain the full scope of the parties' contractual agreement, including the rights created or reserved, the obligations assumed or declined, and the provided remedies for breach. Second, it must determine whether there is an independent tort duty to refrain from the alleged conduct. Third, if an independent duty exists, the court must consider whether the plaintiff can establish all elements of the tort independently of the rights and duties assumed by the parties under the contract.” (Id. at 450-451.) “The guiding and distinguishing principle is this. If the alleged breach is based on a failure to perform as the contract provides, and the parties reasonably anticipated and allocated the risks associated with the breach, the cause of action will generally sound only in contract because a breach deprives an injured party of a benefit it bargained for. However, if the contract reveals the consequences were not reasonably contemplated when the contract was entered and the duty to avoid causing such a harm has an independent statutory or public policy basis, exclusive of the contract, tort liability may lie.” (Id. at 451.)A party purchasing a vehicle does not bargain with the expectation that the automotive manufacturer is concealing known material defects from them. The risks of such a concealment are not allocated within the warranty. There are also public policy reasons, exclusive of the contract, for not wanting an automotive manufacturer to withhold information on such defects, including safety. As noted by the Rattagan Court, public policy has viewed fraudulent concealment on equal footing with affirmative misrepresentations. (Id. at 462.) These public policy reasons are exclusive of the contract, and therefore tort liability would exist in such instances of fraudulent concealment. Accordingly, the court finds that Plaintiffs' 5th cause of action is not barred by the economic loss rule under Rattagan.Tentative RulingDefendants’ Demurrer to the 5th Cause of Action is overruled. Defendants have 20 days leave to file answer on the Complaint.