 Case Number:  22AVCV00187    Hearing Date:   November 7, 2023    Dept:  A14 Background
 
This is a breach of contract
action. Plaintiff Patricia Woodward (“Plaintiff”), daughter to Spencer Wallace,
Jr. (“Mr. Wallace”), alleges that Mr. Wallace informed Defendant Janice Wallace
(“Wallace”), wife of Mr. Wallace until his passing, that his property located
at 2534 Carmina Ave., Los Angeles, CA 90016 (the “Property”) was to be given to
Plaintiff upon his passing. Plaintiff contends that this was told to Wallace on
several occasions and Mrs. Wallace acknowledged to Plaintiff that the house
would go to her. Plaintiff further alleges that this intention was also
codified in a writing when Wallace sent Plaintiff an acknowledgement of full
distribution that gave Plaintiff 100% legal and equitable title in the Property
(Exhibit 2) and by a follow up letter on or around November 2021 (Exhibit 3).
Plaintiff believes that Wallace willfully and intentionally conspired with
other defendants and sold the property below its actual value. 
 
On March 21, 2022, Plaintiff
filed her Complaint.
 
On May 05, 2022, Plaintiff filed
her First Amended Complaint (“FAC”).
 
The operative pleading is the
Second Amended Complaint (“SAC”) which alleges 14 causes of action for: (1)
Breach of Contract against Defendants Cedric Age (“Age”), ACE Realty (“ACE”),
and Federal Escrow Inc. (“Federal Escrow”); (2) Breach of Contract against
Wallace; (3) Breach of Fiduciary Duties against all defendants; (4) Conversion
against all defendants; (5) Fraud – Concealment against all defendants; (6)
Fraud – Misrepresentation against all defendants; (7) Negligence against all
defendants; (8) Negligent Infliction of Emotional Distress (“NIED”) against all
defendants; (9) Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress (“IIED”) against
all defendants; (10) Breach of Good Faith and Fair Dealing against all
defendants; (11) Quiet Title against Defendant Tiger 11 Inc. (“Tiger 11”); (12)
Unjust Enrichment against all defendants; (13) Violation of Business and
Professions Code § 17200 against all defendants; and (14) Declaratory Relief
against all defendants.
 
On August 01, 2023, Defendants
Age, ACE, and Tiger 11 filed their Demurrer with Motion to Strike.
 
On October 03, 2023, Plaintiff
filed her Oppositions to the Demurrer and Motion to Strike. 
 
-----
 
Legal Standard
 
Standard for Demurrer – A demurrer for sufficiency tests whether
the complaint states a cause of action.¿ (Hahn v.¿Mirda¿(2007) 147 Cal.
App. 4th 740, 747.) ¿When considering demurrers, courts read the allegations
liberally and in context.¿ (Taylor v. City of Los Angeles Dept. of Water and
Power¿(2006) 144 Cal. App. 4th 1216, 1228.)¿ In a demurrer proceeding, the
defects must be apparent on the face of the pleading or by proper judicial
notice.¿ (Cal. Code Civ. Proc. § 430.30(a).)¿A demurrer tests the pleadings
alone and not the evidence or other extrinsic matters.¿ (SKF Farms v.
Superior Court¿(1984) 153 Cal. App. 3d 902, 905.)¿ Therefore, it lies only
where the defects appear on the face of the pleading or are judicially
noticed.¿¿(Ibid.)¿¿The only issue involved in a demurrer hearing is
whether the complaint, as it stands, unconnected with extraneous matters,
states a cause of action.¿ (Hahn,¿supra,¿147 Cal.App.4th at
747.)¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿ 
¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿ 
A general demurrer admits the truth of all
factual, material allegations properly pled in the challenged pleading,
regardless of possible difficulties of proof.¿¿(Blank v. Kirwan
(1985) 39 Cal.3d 311, 318.)¿ Thus, no matter how unlikely or improbable,
plaintiff’s allegations must be accepted as true for the purpose of ruling on
the demurrer.¿¿(Del E. Webb Corp. v. Structural Materials Co.¿(1981) 123
Cal.App.3d 593, 604.)¿ Nevertheless, this rule does not apply to allegations
expressing mere conclusions of law, or allegations contradicted by the exhibits
to the complaint or by matters of which judicial notice may be taken.¿¿(Vance
v. Villa Park¿Mobilehome¿Estates¿(1995) 36 Cal.App.4th 698, 709.)¿A general
demurrer does not admit contentions, deductions, or conclusions of fact or law
alleged in the complaint; facts impossible in law; or allegations contrary to
facts of which a court may take judicial notice.¿¿(Blank,¿supra,
39 Cal.3d at p. 318.)¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿ 
¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿ 
Pursuant to¿Code Civ. Proc.¿§430.10(e), the
party against whom a complaint has been filed may object by demurrer to the
pleading on the grounds that the pleading does not state facts sufficient to
constitute a cause of action.¿ It is an abuse of discretion to sustain a
demurrer without leave to amend if there is a reasonable probability that the
defect can be cured by amendment.¿¿(Schifando¿v. City of Los Angeles¿(2003)
31 Cal.4th 1074, 1082,¿as modified (Dec. 23, 2003).)¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿ 
¿ 
-----
 
Standard for a Motion to Strike – The court may,
upon a motion, or at any time in its discretion, and upon terms it deems
proper, strike any irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted in any
pleading. (Cal. Code Civ. Proc. § 436(a).) The court may also strike all or any
part of any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of this
state, a court rule, or an order of the court. (Id., § 436(b).) The
grounds for a motion to strike are that the pleading has irrelevant, false, or
improper matter, or has not been drawn or filed in conformity with laws. (Id.
§ 436.) The grounds for moving to strike must appear on the face of the
pleading or by way of judicial notice. (Id. § 437.)¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿ 
¿ 
-----¿ 
¿ 
Meet and Confer Requirement– Before filing a demurrer
or a motion to strike, the demurring or moving party is required to meet and
confer with the party who filed the pleading demurred to or the pleading that
is subject to the motion to strike for the purposes of determining whether an
agreement can be reached through a filing of an amended pleading that would
resolve the objections to be raised in the demurrer. (Cal. Code Civ. Proc. §§
430.41 and 435.5.) Counsel for Defendants Age, ACE, and Tiger 11, Kimberly R.
Rose-McCaslin (“Rose-McCaslin”), declares that she sent a detailed written
correspondence to Plaintiff’s attorney outlining Defendants’ arguments
regarding deficiencies and within an hour received correspondence from
Plaintiff’s attorney stating (1) he did not agree with the arguments presented,
and (2) advised Rose-McCaslin to file her demurrer. (Decl. Rose-McCaslin ¶¶
2-3.) A determination by the court that the meet and confer process was
insufficient shall not be grounds to overrule or sustain a demurrer or motion
to strike. (Cal. Code Civ. Proc. §§ 430.41(a)(4)
and 435.5(a)(4).)
Accordingly, the Court determines the Demurrer and Motion to Strike on their
merits.
 
-----
 
Discussion
 
Application – 
 
i.       Demurrer
 
Defendants Age, ACE, and Tiger 11
demur to the First Cause of Action (Breach of Contract), Third Cause of Action
(Breach of Fiduciary Duty), Fourth Cause of Action (Conversion), Fifth Cause of
Action (Concealment), Sixth Cause of Action (Fraudulent Misrepresentation),
Seventh Cause of Action (Negligence), Eighth Cause of Action (NIED), Ninth
Cause of Action (IIED), Tenth Cause of Action (Breach of Covenant of Good Faith
and Fair Dealing), Eleventh Cause of Action (Quiet Title), Twelfth Cause of
Action (Unjust Enrichment), Thirteenth Cause of Action (Violation of Bus. &
Prof. Code § 17200), and Fourteenth Cause of Action (Declaratory Relief).
 
It appears that Defendants Age,
ACE, and Tiger 11 have a general argument that pertains to all causes of
action. Defendants Age, ACE, and Tiger 11 argue that Plaintiff does not have
standing to sue as she had no legal ownership in the Property, and is neither a
party to, nor an identified third-party beneficiary of, any of the contracts
related to the sale. Defendants Age, ACE, and Tiger 11 highlight that they only
writings which Plaintiff alleges exist relative to the “conveyance” of the
Property to her, are the purported communications from Wallace’s counsel
relative to a future transfer. 
 
Plaintiff asserts that her status
as a property owner is a question of fact and cannot be determined on Demurrer.
Specifically, Plaintiff highlights that she has alleged ownership and has
discussed her ownership interest via the trust (see SAC ¶ 28, 79, 92, Exh. 1),
the Final Distribution that Plaintiff sighed (see SAC ¶¶ 1, 28, 79, 92, Exh. 2),
and the executed deed (see SAC ¶¶ 51, 53, Exh. 8.) 
 
Defendants Age, ACE, and Tiger 11
argue in Reply that Plaintiff has not demonstrated standing as “a trust
beneficiary holds only equitable title in trust property while the legal title
resides entirely in the trustee, giving only the trustee the power to convey
absolute ownership of trust property, either by operation of law, “or by an
instrument in writing, subscribed by the party disposing of the same.
[Citation.]” (Reply 2:1-4.)
 
Defendants Age, ACE, and Tiger 11’s
argument is does not hold as Plaintiff has provided a Quitclaim Deed, signed by
herself, attached as Exh. 8 to the SAC. Due to this Quitclaim Deed, a
reasonable inference can be made that Plaintiff did have, at some point,
ownership or an interest in the Property. (See Perez v. Golden Empire
Transit Dist. (2012) 209 Cal.App.4th 1228, 1239 [“Code of Civil Procedure
section 452 provides in full: ‘In the construction of a pleading, for the
purpose of determining its effect, its allegations must be liberally construed,
with a view to substantial justice between the parties.’ This rule of liberal
construction means that the reviewing court draws inferences favorable to the
plaintiff, not the defendant. (Carney v. Simmonds (1957) 49 Cal.2d 84,
93 [315 P.2d 305]; Advanced Modular Sputtering, Inc. v. Superior Court
(2005) 132 Cal.App.4th 826, 835 [33 Cal. Rptr. 3d 901] [“pleadings are to be
liberally construed in favor of the pleader …”].)”].) 
 
As an initial matter, the Court
must address the SAC’s pleading of conspiracy. Defendants Age, ACE, and Tiger
11 provide no argument in their Demurrer as to the conspiracy allegations. Plaintiff
discusses conspiracy throughout her Opposition. Defendants Age, ACE, and Tiger
attempt to argue conspiracy on Reply. This is a new argument. It is well
established that new arguments presented in reply briefs will not be
considered. (See In re Marriage of Khera & Sameer (2012) 206
Cal.App.4th 1467, 1477-78 [“ ‘Obvious reasons of fairness militate against consideration of
an issue raised initially in the reply brief of an appellant. [Citations.]”]; Varjabedian
v. City of Madera (1977) 20 Cal.3d 285, 295, fn. 11 [. . .“Obvious reasons of fairness militate against consideration of
an issue raised initially in the reply brief of an appellant.”]; People v.
Smithey (1999) 20 Cal.4th 936, 1017, fn. 26 [“ ‘[T]he rule is that points
raised in the reply brief for the first time will not be considered, unless
good reason is shown for failure to present them before. [Citations.]’
[Citation.]”].)
 
Civil conspiracy is “a legal
doctrine that imposes liability on persons who, although not actually
committing a tort themselves, share with the immediate tortfeasors a common
plan or design in its perpetration. [] By participation in a civil conspiracy,
a coconspirator effectively adopts as his or her own the torts of other
coconspirators within the ambit of the conspiracy. [] In this way, a
coconspirator incurs tort liability co-equal with the immediate tortfeasors.” (Applied
Equipment Corp. v. Litton Saudi Arabia Ltd. (1994) 7 Cal.4th 503, 510-511.)
The elements of conspiracy are: "(1) the formation and operation of the
conspiracy, (2) wrongful conduct in furtherance of the conspiracy, and (3)
damages arising from the wrongful conduct." (Kidron v. Movie
Acquisition Corp. (1995) 40 Cal.App.4th 1571, 1581.) "[A]ctual
knowledge of the planned tort, without more, is insufficient to serve as the
basis for a conspiracy claim. Knowledge of the planned tort must be combined
with intent to aid in its commission.” (Id. at p. 1582.)
 
The SAC states, among other
conspiracy allegations:
 
Woodward is informed
and believes and thereon alleges that Defendants entered a conspiracy to
fraudulently transfer the Property, which rightfully belonged to Woodward,
without her permission. Defendants were successful with their conspiracy as a
grant deed was signed, on or around December 21, 2021, granting ownership of
the Property to Tiger. Said deed was record on or around January 25, 2022. (See
Exhibit 6.)
 
The culmination of the sale and/or
conspiracy could not have been executed without Federal.
 
(SAC ¶¶ 53-54.)
 
The pleadings show that Age does
business as ACE Realty and is an owner or director of Tiger 11. (See SAC
[generally], Exh. 7, Exh. 9.) The pleadings also show that Plaintiff had, at
some point, ownership or an interest in the Property. As mentioned, infra,
a broker learns the material facts that may affect the principal's decision.
Thus, a reasonable inference is that Age, in order not to breach his fiduciary
duty to Wallace, has knowledge of the material facts related to the Property
and relayed such knowledge to Wallace as his prinicpal. Tiger 11, the buyer who
has relations to Age, purchased the Property below market value. (See SAC ¶
120, Exh. 6.) The Property was sold prior to Plaintiff’s signing of the
Quitclaim Deed, resulting in damages in the form of Plaintiff’s lost interest
in the Property. (See SAC Exh. 6, Exh. 8.) Further, an appraisal document from
an unaffiliated entity showed: (1) the Property was acquired by Tiger 11 from
Wallace, in the trust, on January 25, 2022 for $2,250,000 and then transferred
back to Wallace, in the trust, on January 27, 2022 with no details. (See SAC
Exh. 5.) Thus, it appears from the pleadings that Defendants Age, ACE, and
Tiger 11 participated in an alleged conspiracy or, at least, had prior
knowledge or agreed to the acts committed by Wallace and/or Federal. 
 
The Court analyzes this Demurrer
in the context of the conspiracy allegations. 
 
a.     First
Cause of Action (Breach of Contract)
 
Defendants Age, ACE, and Tiger 11
argue that Plaintiff has not alleged a contract with Age, ACE, or Tiger.
Specifically, Defendants Age, ACE, and Tiger 11 present that the only contracts
are: (1) an agreement between Wallace and Age to sell the Property (SAC ¶ 34),
and (2) an offer and acceptance between Tiger 11 and Wallace for purchase of
the Property (SAC ¶ 37.) Defendants Age, ACE, and Tiger 11 turn to Plaintiff’s
allegations that she is a third party and argue that: (1) a person seeking to
enforce a contract as a third-party beneficiary must plead a contract which was
made expressly for his or her benefit and one in which it clearly appears that
he or she was a beneficiary, (2) Plaintiff makes no such allegation here, (3)
neither has Plaintiff alleged the substance of the contract or attached a
contract. Next, Defendants Age, ACE, and Tiger 11 turn to implied-in-fact
contracts and argue that Plaintiff has alleged several written contracts and,
as such, there cannot be an implied-in-fact contract as there can be no implied
contract where the subject of the relationship is already covered by a written
contract.
 
Plaintiff presents that she has
alleged facts sufficient to establish that there is a contract, whether implied
or in fact, and the standard of a Demurrer admits all facts properly pleaded. Plaintiff
emphasizes that her Breach of Contract claim is not against Tiger 11, but only
Age and ACE, and that she was a necessary party to the contract as she was the
owner of the Property, that she was not required to perform on the contract as
she did not agree to sell the Property, that Age and ACE breached the contract
by selling the Property without her permission, and damages resulted. Plaintiff
further argues: (1) she is a third-party beneficiary as she has alleged the
terms of the contract and detailed how she met the requirements of Cal. Civ. Code
§ 1559; and (2) Plaintiff’s implied contract theory is an alternative theory
should the Court find that there is no written contract and the actions alleged
facts meet the requirements for an implied contract at the pleadings stage.
 
Defendants Age, ACE, and Tiger 11
argue that Plaintiff’s Opposition offers no legal support for arguments, Cal.
Code Civ. Code § 1559 does not apply to beneficiaries of a trust where a trust
is made in favor of the third party attempting to sue and the contract in
question is between the trustee and the agent of the trustee. Defendants Age,
ACE, and Tiger 11 argue that, as such, Plaintiff has failed to demonstrate that
she is a legal owner of the Property or an intended beneficiary of any of the
alleged agreements. Further, Defendants argue that while alternative pleadings
are allowed, they cannot be allowed where the elements of one preclude the
other. 
 
“To prevail on a cause of action
for breach of contract, the plaintiff must prove (1) the contract, (2) the
plaintiff’s performance of the contract or excuse for nonperformance, (3) the
defendant’s breach, and (4) the resulting damage to the plaintiff.” (Richman
v. Hartley (2014) 224 Cal.App.4th 1182, 1186.)
 
It appears from the SAC that the
written contracts discussed are those in paragraph 81 – “all real estate
contracts associated with the sale of the Property.” However, “if the action is
based on an alleged breach of a written contract, the terms must be set out
verbatim in the body of the complaint or a copy of the written instrument must
be attached and incorporated by reference.” (Otworth v. S. Oac. Transp. Co.
(1985) 166 Cal.App.3d 452, 459.) Here, based on the allegations and the
Quitclaim Deed which depicts a transfer between Plaintiff and Wallace (see Exh.
8), there is no written contract between Plaintiff and Defendants Age, ACE, and
Tiger 11. 
 
Regarding California’s
third-party beneficiary doctrine, Goonewardene v. ADP, LLC (2019) 6
Cal.5th 817 (“Goonewardene”) provides insight:
 
Instead, a review of
[the California Supreme Court’s] third party beneficiary decisions reveals that
our court has carefully examined the express provisions of the contract at
issue, as well as all of the relevant circumstances under which the contract
was agreed to, in order to determine not only (1) whether the third party would
in fact benefit from the contract, but also (2) whether a motivating purpose of
the contracting parties was to provide a benefit to the third party, and (3)
whether permitting a third party to bring its own breach of contract action
against a contracting party is consistent with the objectives of the contract
and the reasonable expectations of the contracting parties. All three elements
must be satisfied to permit the third party action to go forward.
 
With regard to the
second element, we note that our past cases have sometimes referred to this
element of the third party beneficiary doctrine as a requirement that the
“purpose” of the contract be to benefit the third party (see, e.g., Lucas v.
Hamm, supra, 56 Cal.2d at pp. 589–590) and sometimes as a
requirement that there be “an intent to benefit” the third party (see, e.g., id.
at p. 591; Murphy v. Allstate Ins. Co., supra, 17 Cal.3d at p.
944; Garcia v. Truck Ins. Exchange, supra, 36 Cal.3d at p. 436).
Because of the ambiguous and potentially confusing nature of the term “intent”
(see Eisenberg, supra, 92 Colum. L.Rev. at p. 1378), this opinion uses the term
“motivating purpose” in its iteration of this element to clarify that the
contracting parties must have a motivating purpose to benefit the third party,
and not simply knowledge that a benefit to the third party may follow from the
contract. To avoid any possible confusion, however, we emphasize that our
intent-to-benefit case law remains pertinent in applying this element of the
third party beneficiary doctrine.
 
(Goonewardene, supra,
6 Cal.5th at 830.) 
 
The SAC states: 
 
Furthermore,
Woodward is informed, believes and based thereon alleges as true that she is a
third-party beneficiary, which also allows her the right to sue. Civil Code
§1559 states: “A contract, made expressly for the benefit of a third person,
may be enforced by him at any time before the parties thereto rescind it.”
Woodward qualifies as third party as she would benefit from the contract with
Federal as she would get money from the sale of the Property, and she did get
money from the sale. Woodward is informed, believes and based thereon alleges
as the true that a motivating factor for Wallace and Federal entering into a
contract was to benefit Woodward, as she was an owner, and would be getting the
proceeds from the sale. Lastly, as an owner and third-party beneficiary, she
must be permitted to bring her own breach of contract action against a
contracting party because it is consistent with the objectives of the contract
and the reasonable expectations of the contracting parties, which is to protect
a party’s interest in the Property and ensure rules and guidelines are followed
to name a few.
 
(SAC ¶ 83)
 
Though the SAC attempts to
delineate Plaintiff’s third-party beneficiary status through paragraph 83,
there are no facts that allow a reasonable inference that any motivating
purpose of the real estate contracts was Plaintiff’s benefit. Rather, it appears
from the allegations that the motivating purpose of the real estate contracts
was Wallace’s benefit(s) and, to obtain that benefit, Plaintiff received a
benefit (i.e., Wallace had knowledge that a benefit to the third party may
follow from the contract, but it was not the motivating purpose behind the
contract). 
 
Defendants Age, ACE, and Tiger 11’s
argument regarding implied-in-fact contracts relies on the existence of a
written contract. However, as mentioned ante, there is no written
contract between Plaintiff and Defendants Age, ACE, and Tiger 11.
 
“ ‘An implied contract’ ‘ “ . . .
in no less degree than an express contract, must be founded upon an ascertained
agreement of the parties to perform it, the substantial difference between the
two being the mere mode of proof by which they are to be respectively
established.” [Citation.] It is thus an actual agreement between the parties,
“the existence and terms of which are manifested by conduct.” (Civ. Code, §
1621.) Although an implied   in fact
contract may be inferred from the “conduct, situation or mutual relation of the
parties, the very heart of this kind of agreement is an intent to promise.”
[Citation.]’ (Friedman v. Friedman (1993) 20 Cal. App. 4th 876, 887 [24
Cal. Rptr. 2d 892].)” (Truck Ins. Exchange v. Amoco Corp. (1995) 35
Cal.App.4th 814, 824-25; see also Retired Employees Assn. of Orange County,
Inc. v. County of Orange (2011) 52 Cal.4th 1171, 1178 [“The existence and
terms of an implied contract are manifested by conduct. (Civ. Code, § 1621.)
The distinction reflects no difference in legal effect but merely in the mode
of manifesting assent. (1 Witkin, Summary of Cal. Law (10th ed. 2005) Contracts,
§ 102, p. 144.) Accordingly, a contract implied in fact ‘consists of
obligations arising from a mutual agreement and intent to promise where the
agreement and promise have not been expressed in words.’ ”].)
 
“A cause of action for breach of
implied contract has the same elements as does a cause of action for breach of
contract, except that the promise is not expressed in words but is implied from
the promisor's conduct.” (Yah v. Producers Guild of America, Inc. (2008)
161 Cal.App.4th 172, 182.) The Court incorporates the elements of a contract, ante,
for the discussion of the implied contract. 
 
From the allegations, it does not
appear that there was any agreement between Plaintiff and Defendants Age, ACE,
and Tiger 11. 
 
As the Court noted in the
previous demurrer, it has been held that “an act such as breach of fiduciary
duty may be both a breach of contract and a tort.” (Kangarlou v. Progressive
Title Co., Inc. (2005) 128 Cal.App.4th 1174, 1178 (“Kangarlou”).)
However, “ ‘[w]hether an action is based on contract or tort depends upon the
nature of the right sued upon, not the form of the pleading or relief
demanded.  If based on breach of promise
it is contractual; if based on breach of a noncontractual duty it is tortious.
[Citation.] If unclear the action will be considered based on contract rather
than tort. [Citation.] [¶] In the final analysis we look to the pleading to
determine the nature of plaintiff's claim.’ [Citation.]” (Id. at
1178-79.) Based on the pleadings, as mentioned ante, it appears that
there was no direct promise between Plaintiff and Defendants Age, ACE, and Tiger
11.
 
The SAC does not sufficient
allege a basis for either an express or implied contract and, accordingly, does
not survive Demurrer.
 
b.     Third
Cause of Action (Breach of Fiduciary Duty)
 
Defendants Age, ACE, and Tiger 11
argue (1) as to Age and ACE, there is no contractual relationship between the
parties, so Age and ACE did not owe a fiduciary duty to Plaintiff; (2) As to
Age and ACE, Defendants Age, ACE, and Tiger 11 direct the parties and the Court
to their ownership argument and present that, as the ownership issue has  been dispensed with and no allegations show
that Age or ACE knew about the Trust, they did not solicit or accept a
fiduciary relationship with Plaintiff; (3) as to Tiger 11, Plaintiff is not a
principal and no allegation has been made that the sale wasn’t undertaken with
full knowledge of Cedric’s relationship with Tiger 11. 
 
Plaintiff argues that she had
pled facts sufficient to show that Defendants Age, ACE, and Tiger 11 owed her a
fiduciary duty in paragraph 103(c) of the SAC. Plaintiff emphasizes that she
need not establish that she will win on the claim, but only that she has stated
a cause of action under any possible legal theory and this has been done for
the Third Cause of Action (Breach of Fiduciary Duty).
 
Defendants Age, ACE, and Tiger 11’s
Reply argues that Plaintiff is not an owner or a party to any agreement with
them, thus her fiduciary duty claims are improper. 
 
The Court has discussed the
ownership argument, ante. At this stage, the Quitclaim Deed suffices to
provide a reasonable inference that Plaintiff had, at some point, ownership or
an interest in the Property.
 
“‘The elements of a cause of
action for breach of fiduciary duty are: (1) existence of a fiduciary duty; (2)
breach of the fiduciary duty; and (3) damage proximately caused by the
breach.’” (Gutierrez v. Girardi (2011) 194 Cal.App.4th 925, 932.)
 
“A fiduciary must tell its
principal of all information it possesses that is material to the principal's
interests.” (Michel v. Moore & Associates, Inc. (2007) 156
Cal.App.4th 756, 762.) “The broker as a fiduciary has a duty to learn the
material facts that may affect the principal's decision. He is hired for his
professional knowledge and skill; he is expected to perform the necessary
research and investigation in order to know those important matters that will
affect the principal's decision, and he has a duty to counsel and advise the
principal regarding the propriety and ramifications of the decision. The
agent's duty to disclose material information to the principal includes the
duty to disclose reasonably obtainable material information. [¶]… [¶] The facts
that a broker must learn, and the advice and counsel required of the broker,
depend on the facts of each transaction, the knowledge and the experience of
the principal, the questions asked by the principal, and the nature of the
property and the terms of sale. The broker must place himself in the position
of the principal and ask himself the type of information required for the
principal to make a well-informed decision. This obligation requires
investigation of facts not known to the agent and disclosure of all material
facts that might reasonably be discovered.” (Miller & Starr, Real Estate
Law 2d, Agency, § 3.17, pp. 94, 96-97, 99.) Furthermore, a broker " '…
cannot accept information received from others as being true, and transmit it
to the principal, without either verifying the information or disclosing to the
principal that the information has not been verified. Because of the fiduciary
obligations of the broker, the principal has a right to rely on the statements
of the broker, and if the information is transmitted by the broker without
verification and without qualification, the broker is liable to the principal
for negligent misrepresentation.” (Salahutdin v. Valley of California, Inc. (1994)
24 Cal.App.4th 555, 562-63.) “Accordingly, a buyer's agent is not required to
verify information received from the seller and passed on to the buyer if the
buyer understands the agent is merely passing on unverified information.” (Pagano
v. Krohn (1997) 60 Cal.App.4th 1, 12.)
 
The Court notes that the
Restatement (Second) of Torts Section 874 treats breach of fiduciary duty as a
tort that subjects a fiduciary to liability to the beneficiary for harm caused
by the breach. The Court turns to California case law for the application of
conspiracy to breach of fiduciary duty:
 
Some courts, noting
the close relationship between conspiracy and aiding and abetting, have
suggested that the law should treat conspiracy to breach a fiduciary duty and
aiding and abetting a breach of fiduciary duty similarly. For example, in In
re County of Orange (Bankr. C.D.Cal. 1996) 203 B.R. 983, citing Applied
Equipment Corp. and Kidron, the court stated that it saw “no reason
for treating the vicarious tort of aiding and abetting breach of a fiduciary
duty differently from that of conspiracy to breach a fiduciary duty.
‘Conspiracy is a concept closely allied with aiding and abetting. A conspiracy
generally requires agreement plus an overt act causing damage. Aiding and
abetting requires no agreement, but simply assistance. The common basis for
liability for both conspiracy and aiding and abetting, however, is concerted
action.’” (Id. at p. 999, quoting Janken v. GM Hughes Electronics (1996)
46 Cal.App.4th 55, 78 [53 Cal. Rptr. 2d 741].) In Howard v. Superior Court (1992)
2 Cal.App.4th 745 [3 Cal. Rptr. 2d 575] the issue was whether a client
attempting to plead a cause of action for aiding and abetting against an
attorney had to comply with Civil Code former section 1714.10, which required
the plaintiff to obtain a court order before pleading such a civil conspiracy
claim. The court noted that “[i]n the abstract, there may be a distinction
between an aiding and abetting cause of action and one for civil conspiracy,”
but held that because the alleged conduct fell “within the ambit” of the
statute, the statute applied to the plaintiff's aiding and abetting claim. (Howard,
at p. 749, fn. omitted.) And in K & S Partnership v. Continental Bank,
N.A. (8th Cir. 1991) 952 F.2d 971, the court stated, “[k]nowing
participation in a breach of fiduciary duty ‘is analogous to a cause of action
… for aiding and abetting a securities fraud,’ where the primary violation
involves a breach of fiduciary duty. [Citation.] Likewise, liability for civil
conspiracy is in substance the same thing as aiding and abetting liability. Civil
conspiracy requires an agreement to participate in an unlawful activity and an
overt act that causes injury, so it ‘does not set forth an independent cause of
action’ but rather is ‘sustainable only after an underlying tort claim has been
established.’ [Citations.]” (Id. at p. 980.)
 
California law,
however, does not treat conspiracy to breach a fiduciary duty and aiding and
abetting a breach of fiduciary duty similarly. In Casey v. U.S. Bank Nat.
Assn., supra, 127 Cal.App.4th 1138, on which the trial court relied,
a trustee in bankruptcy sued three banks, alleging that they aided and abetted
the fiduciaries of the bankrupt corporation in a scheme to divert funds from
the corporation. One of the causes of action was aiding and abetting a breach
of fiduciary duty. (Id. at pp. 1141–1142.) Citing this court's opinion
in Saunders v. Superior Court (1994) 27 Cal.App.4th 832, 846 [33 Cal.
Rptr. 2d 438], the court in Casey observed that “California has adopted
the common law rule for subjecting a defendant to liability for aiding and
abetting a tort. ‘“Liability may … be imposed on one who aids and abets the
commission of an intentional tort if the person (a) knows the other's conduct
constitutes a breach of duty and gives substantial assistance or encouragement
to the other to so act or (b) gives substantial assistance to the other in
accomplishing a tortious result and the person's own conduct, separately
considered, constitutes a breach of duty to the third person.” [Citations.]’
[Citation.]” (Casey, supra, at p. 1144.) The trustee in Casey
attempted to allege liability under the first theory, and the banks challenged
the sufficiency of the allegations of “‘substantial assistance.’” (Casey,
at p. 1145.) The court noted “that liability for aiding and abetting depends on
proof the defendant had actual knowledge of the specific primary wrong the
defendant substantially assisted.” (Ibid.) The court concluded that the
trustee had failed to allege facts showing that the banks knew the fiduciaries
were misappropriating corporate funds. Thus, the trustee failed to state a
cause of action for aiding and abetting a breach of fiduciary duty. (Id.
at p. 1153.)
 
Citing Casey,
Saunders, and the Restatement Second of Torts, the court in Berg
& Berg Enterprises, LLC v. Sherwood Partners, Inc. (2005) 131
Cal.App.4th 802 [32 Cal. Rptr. 3d 325] explained: “Despite some conceptual
similarities, civil liability for aiding and abetting the commission of a tort,
which has no overlaid requirement of an independent duty, differs fundamentally
from liability based on conspiracy to commit a tort. [Citations.]
‘“[A]iding-abetting focuses on whether a defendant knowingly gave ‘substantial
assistance’ to someone who performed wrongful conduct, not on whether the
defendant agreed to join the wrongful conduct.” [¶] … [W]hile aiding and
abetting may not require a defendant to agree to join the wrongful conduct, it
necessarily requires a defendant to reach a conscious decision to participate
in tortious activity for the purpose of assisting another in performing a
wrongful act. …’ [Citation.] The aider and abetter's conduct need not, as
‘separately considered,’ constitute a breach of duty. [Citations.]” (Id.
at pp. 823–824, fn. 10.)
 
In Neilson v.
Union Bank of California, N.A. (C.D.Cal. 2003) 290 F.Supp.2d 1101, the
court thoroughly reviewed California case law and concluded that under
California law a defendant can be liable for aiding and abetting a breach of
fiduciary duty in the absence of an independent duty owed to the plaintiff. (Id.
at p. 1135.) After noting that conspiracy and aiding and abetting “are closely
allied forms of liability,” the court found that “[n]o California case,
however, holds that a party must owe the plaintiff a duty before he or she can
be held liable as an aider and abettor. Rather, California cases outlining the
elements of aiding and abetting liability have consistently cited the elements
of the tort as they are set forth in the Restatement (Second) of Torts, § 876,
and have omitted any reference to an independent duty on the part of the aider
and abettor. Under this formulation, liability may properly be imposed on one
who knows that another's conduct constitutes a breach of duty and substantially
assists or encourages the breach.” (Id. at p. 1133.)
 
The Neilson
court explained why this is so: “Unlike a conspirator, an aider and abettor
does not ‘adopt as his or her own’ the tort of the primary violator. Rather,
the act of aiding and abetting is distinct from the primary violation;
liability attaches because the aider and abettor behaves in a manner that
enables the primary violator to commit the underlying tort. [Citations.] …
Because aiders and abettors do not agree to commit, and are not held liable as
joint tortfeasors for committing, the underlying tort, it is not necessary that
they owe plaintiff the same duty as the primary violator. Conspirators, by
contrast, are held liable for the tort committed by their co-conspirator.
[Citation.] Because liability is premised on the commission of a single tort,
it is logical that all conspirators must be legally capable of committing the
wrong.” (Neilson v. Union Bank of California, N.A., supra, 290
F.Supp.2d at pp. 1134–1135, fn. omitted.) “Additionally, causation is an
essential element of an aiding and abetting claim, i.e., plaintiff must show
that the aider and abettor providedassistance that was a substantial factor in
causing the harm suffered. [Citations.] … This difference too demonstrates the
distinction between the forms of liability, and argues in favor of a rule that
permits the imposition of aider and abettor liability in the absence of a duty
owed directly to the plaintiff.” (Id. at p. 1135; see Simi Management
Corp. v. Bank of America, N.A. (N.D.Cal. 2013) 930 F.Supp.2d 1082, 1099,
fn. 15 [“‘liability for aiding and abetting may exist even where the
defendant's conduct does not independently breach a duty to the plaintiff’”]; Villains,
Inc. v. American Economy Ins. Co. (N.D.Cal. 2012) 870 F.Supp.2d 792, 795
[“‘[t]he differences between conspiracy and aiding and abetting are not merely
semantic’ and … ‘[t]hese differences have led several courts … to recognize
that a non-fiduciary can aid and abet a breach of fiduciary duty’”]; Granewich
v. Harding (1999) 329 Ore. 47 [985 P.2d 788, 793–794] [“[l]egal authorities
… virtually are unanimous in expressing the proposition that one who knowingly
aids another in the breach of a fiduciary duty is liable to the one harmed
thereby,” and “[n]one of those authorities even implies that liability for
participants in the breach of fiduciary duty is confined to those who
themselves owe such duty”]; see also Heckmann v. Ahmanson (1985) 168
Cal.App.3d 119, 127 [214 Cal. Rptr. 177] [third party greenmailer purchasers of
corporation's shares in takeover attempt can be liable for aiding and abetting
breach of fiduciary duty of corporation's directors who authorized
corporation's purchase of the third parties' shares at a premium]; accord,
Feinberg Testamentary Trust v. Carter (S.D.N.Y. 1987) 652 F.Supp. 1066,
1083.)
 
[. . .]
 
Thus, there are two
different theories pursuant to which a person may be liable for aiding and
abetting a breach of fiduciary duty. One theory, like conspiracy to breach a
fiduciary duty, requires that the aider and abettor owe a fiduciary duty to the
victim and requires only that the aider and abettor provide substantial
assistance to the person breaching his or her fiduciary duty. (Casey v. U.S.
Bank Nat. Assn, supra, 127 Cal.App.4th at p. 1144; Coffman v.
Kennedy (1977) 74 Cal.App.3d 28, 32 [141 Cal. Rptr. 267].) On this theory,
California law treats aiding and abetting a breach of fiduciary duty and
conspiracy to breach a fiduciary duty similarly. Courts impose liability for
concerted action that violates the aider and abettor's fiduciary duty. (See Janken
v. GM Hughes Electronics, supra, 46 Cal.App.4th at p. 78; In re
County of Orange, supra, 203 B.R. at p. 999.) The second theory for
imposing liability for aiding and abetting a breach of fiduciary duty arises
when the aider and abettor commits an independent tort. (See Casey, supra,
at p. 1144; Saunders v. Superior Court, supra, 27 Cal.App.4th at
p. 846.) This occurs when the aider and abettor makes “‘a conscious decision to
participate in tortious activity for the purpose of assisting another in
performing a wrongful act.’” (Berg & Berg Enterprises, LLC v. Sherwood
Partners, Inc., supra, 131 Cal.App.4th at p. 823, fn. 10; accord, Central
Bank of Denver, N. A. v. First Interstate Bank of Denver, N. A. (1994) 511
U.S. 164, 181 [128 L. Ed. 2d 119, 114 S. Ct. 1439].)
 
(American Master Lease LLC v.
Idanta Partners, Ltd. (2014) 225 Cal.App.4th 1451, 1473-77 (“American
Master Lease”).)
 
Simultaneously, there are other opinions
from the same appellate circuit discussing conspiracy and breach of fiduciary
duty:
 
By its nature, tort
liability arising from a conspiracy presupposes that the conspirator is legally
capable of committing the tort--that he owes a duty to the plaintiff recognized
by law and is potentially subject to liability for the breach of that duty.
Standing alone, a conspiracy does no harm, engenders no tort liability, and
does not per se give rise to a cause of action. It must be activated by the
commission of an actual tort. (Applied Equipment Corp. v. Litton Saudi
Arabia Ltd. (1994) 7 Cal.4th 503, 511, [28 Cal. Rptr. 2d 475, 869 P.2d
454].) Relying on that rule, Doctors' Co. rejected an insured's effort
to allege a conspiracy to violate Insurance Code section 790.03 against an
insurer and the attorney (and expert) retained by the insurer to assist with
the insured's defense against a third party's claim, explaining that a cause of
action for civil conspiracy does not arise "if the alleged conspirator,
though a participant in the agreement underlying the injury, was not personally
bound by the duty violated by the wrongdoing and was acting only as the agent
or employee of the party who did have that duty." (Doctors' Co. v.
Superior Court, supra, 49 Cal.3d at pp. 41-42, 44, italics added;
see also Gruenberg v. Aetna Ins. Co. (1973) 9 Cal.3d 566, 576, [108 Cal.
Rptr. 480, 510 P.2d 1032] [insurer's adjusters and attorneys are not liable on
a theory of conspiracy to breach the implied covenant of good faith because the
adjusters and attorneys are not parties to the insurance contract and because
the agents and employees of a corporation cannot conspire with their corporate
principal or employer when they act in their official capacities and not as
individuals for their individual advantage].)
 
(Everest Investors 8 v.
Whitehall Real Estate Partnership Xi (2002) 100 Cal.App.4th 1102, 1106-07;
see also 1-800 Contacts, Inc. v. Steinberg (2003) 107 Cal.App.4th 568,
590 [“Conspiracy is not an independent cause of action, but rather a doctrine
imposing liability for a tort upon those involved in its commission. [Citation.]
And ‘tort liability arising from conspiracy presupposes that the coconspirator
is legally capable of committing the tort, i.e., that he or she owes a duty to
plaintiff . . . and is potentially subject to liability for breach of that
duty.’ (Id. at p. 511.)”].)
 
It appears that, because
Plaintiff is not a principal to the agreement with Age, there is no basis for a
fiduciary duty between Age, ACE, and/or Tiger 11. 
 
Accordingly, the pleadings have
not sufficiently alleged a claim of breach of fiduciary duty based on case
precedent. 
 
c.      Fourth
Cause of Action (Conversion)
 
Defendants Age, ACE, and Tiger 11
present that a party who has neither title nor possession nor any right to
possession may not sue for conversion and direct the parties and the Court to
their ownership argument.
 
The Court directs the parties to
its analysis of Plaintiff’s ownership/interest in the Property, ante.
 
Plaintiff argues that she has
properly pled facts sufficient to establish conversion as she has pled that she
is an owner; that she had a right to possession under the trust, final
distribution, and deed; and such documents also allude to a change in title of
the Property.
 
Defendants Age, ACE, and Tiger 11’s
Reply emphasizes that Plaintiff was not an owner and, therefore, she cannot
claim conversion. 
 
“The essential elements of
conversion are: (1) the plaintiff owned or had the right to possess the
personal property; (2) the defendant disposed of the property in a manner
inconsistent with the plaintiff's property rights; and (3) resulting damages. (Voris
v. Lampert (2019) 7 Cal.5th 1141, 1150–1151 [250 Cal. Rptr. 3d 779, 446
P.3d 284].) The defendant's conduct ‘must be knowingly or intentionally done,’
but a ‘wrongful intent’ or motive is not a requirement. (Taylor v. Forte
Hotels International (1991) 235 Cal.App.3d 1119, 1124 [1 Cal. Rptr. 2d
189], original italics (Taylor); see Voris, supra, at p. 1150.)
Because the defendant's conduct ‘must be knowingly done, “neither negligence,
active or passive, nor a breach of contract, even though it results in injury
to, or loss of, specific property, constitutes a conversion.” [Citation.] It
follows therefore that mistake, good faith, and due care are ordinarily
immaterial, and cannot be set up as defenses in an action for conversion.’ (Taylor,
supra, at p. 1124.) Nonetheless, ‘there can be no conversion where an
owner either expressly or impliedly assents to or ratifies the taking, use or
disposition of his property.’ (Farrington v. A. Teichert & Son, Inc.
(1943) 59 Cal.App.2d 468, 474 [139 P.2d 80].)” (Berry v. Frazier (2023)
90 Cal.App.5th 1258.)
 
The pleadings show that Age does
business as ACE Realty and is an owner or director of Tiger 11. The pleadings
also show that Plaintiff had, at some point, ownership or an interest in the
Property. As mentioned, ante, a broker learns the material facts that
may affect the principal's decision. Thus, a reasonable inference is that Age,
in order not to breach his fiduciary duty to Wallace, has knowledge of the
material facts related to the Property. It is unclear how the Property sold. It
appears that several transactions have occurred: (1) Tiger 11, the buyer who
has relations to Age, was granted the Property on December 21, 2021 ( SAC ¶
120, Exh. 6; see also Exh. 7 [Age is listed as Incorporator]); (2) the Property
was granted prior to Plaintiff’s signing of the Quitclaim Deed on January 25,
2022 (SAC Exh. 8); (3) simultaneously on January 25, 2022, Tiger 11 acquired
the Property for $2,250,000 (Exh. 5); and (4) the Property was transferred back
to Wallace, in the trust, on January 27, 2022 with no details (ibid.). Plaintiff
later received $50,000.00. As Plaintiff’s interest in the Property under the
trust is 10%, Plaintiff believes the property was sold for $500,000. (SAC ¶
43.) 
 
A reasonable inference from the
sequence of events is that the Property was granted to Tiger 11 prior to
Plaintiff’s signing of the Quitclaim Deed, resulting in damages in the form of
Plaintiff’s lost interest in the Property. (See SAC Exh. 6, Exh. 8.) 
 
Conversion is a strict liability
tort. (See Los Angeles Federal Credit Union v. Madatyan (2012) 209
Cal.App.4th 1383, 1387 [citing Burlesci v. Petersen (1998) 68
Cal.App.4th 1062, 1066].) As mentioned, ante, participation in a civil
conspiracy causes a co-conspirator to effectively adopt as his or her own the
torts of other coconspirators within the ambit of the conspiracy.  (See Applied Equipment Corp., supra,
7 Cal.4th at 510-511.) The Court held previously that the SAC sufficiently
pleads a claim of Conversion against Federal. (See 08/15/2023 SOD.) Likewise,
the Court believes that the SAC sufficiently pleads a claim of Conversion
against Wallace. The Court directs the parties to the tentative Statement of
Decision for Wallace’s Demurrer. (See 9/26/2023 tentative SOD as to Wallace.)
 
Thus, the SAC sufficiently pleads
a claim of Conversion.
 
d.     Fifth
Cause of Action (Fraud – Concealment) and Sixth Cause of Action (Fraud –
Misrepresentation)
 
Defendants Age, ACE, and Tiger 11
present that they did not owe Plaintiff a duty of any kind as she was not a
principal, a party to any contract, an identified third-party beneficiary, or a
legal owner of the Property. Further, Defendants Age, ACE, and Tiger 11 argue
that there was no reliance as Plaintiff states that she “relied on Wallace and
Defendants misrepresentations by believing she had no real interest in the
Property and that Wallace had the right to do whatever she wanted with the
Property” (SAC ¶ 133), but none of the
delineated concealments or
misrepresentation that are, or could be contributed to these themselves.
 
Plaintiff argues that she has
pled all facts necessary to establish a claim of Fraudulent Concealment due to
her ownership, contractual relationship between the parties, and that she was
injured due to fraud. Plaintiff concedes that she has not pled a claim for
Fraudulent Misrepresentation as to Defendants Age, ACE, and Tiger 11 directly
and requests to amend the SAC.
 
Defendants Age, ACE, and Tiger 11
argue that what Plaintiff concedes are facts are, in actuality, conclusory
statements and Plaintiff has failed to demonstrate ownership or her status as a
third party beneficiary. 
 
“The elements of fraud that will
give rise to a tort action for deceit are: “ ‘(a) misrepresentation (false
representation, concealment, or nondisclosure); (b) knowledge of falsity (or
‘scienter’); (c) intent to defraud, i.e., to induce reliance; (d) justifiable
reliance; and (e) resulting damage.’ ” (Engalla v. Permanente Medical Group,
Inc. (1997) 15 Cal.4th 951, 974.)
 
The Court first addresses fraud
based on concealment.
 
As to Defendants Age, ACE, and
Tiger 11, the Fifth Cause of Action (Fraud – Concealment) reads, in relevant
part:
 
Defendants concealed
the true purchase price. An appraisal dated February 22, 2022, stated Tiger
paid $2,250,000 for the Property
 
Defendants concealed
the fact the sales transaction was fraudulent as no one had the authority to
sell the Property.
 
Defendants concealed
the fact Wallace did not have the right to sell the Property.
 
Cedric concealed the
fact he was an owner and/or director of Tiger, the buyer.
 
Cedric and Tiger
concealed the fact they had a financial relationship.
 
Cedric concealed the
fact that the market value of the property was approximately $1,100,000.00.
 
Woodward is informed
and believes, and based thereon, alleges that Defendants also concealed or
suppressed other facts regarding their involvement with each other.
 
Woodward is informed
and believes, and based thereon, alleges that the Defendants were under a duty
to disclose these facts to her by way of contract, (i.e., listing agreement and
agency disclosure relationship agreement), her ownership interest, as well as
California laws and rules governing agents, brokers, and escrow companies.
Moreover, Wallace had a duty to disclose the facts under her obligations as
trustee.
 
(SAC ¶¶ 120-122.) 
 
It appears that taking into
consideration the pleadings and Defendants Age, ACE, and Tiger 11 alone, a
claim for concealment is not sufficiently pled as there seems to be no legal
reason for disclosure given in the pleadings; however, the Court must consider
the conspiracy allegations. 
 
As to Federal, the Court held: 
 
The Court next turns
to fraud based on concealment.
 
“[T]he elements of
an action for fraud and deceit based on a concealment are: (1) the defendant
must have concealed or suppressed a material fact, (2) the defendant must have
been under a duty to disclose the fact to the plaintiff, (3) the defendant must
have intentionally concealed or suppressed the fact with the intent to defraud
the plaintiff, (4) the plaintiff must have been unaware of the fact and would
not have acted as he did if he had known of the concealed or suppressed fact,
and (5) as a result of the concealment or suppression of the fact, the
plaintiff must have sustained damage.” (Boschma v. Home Loan Center, Inc.
(2011) 198 Cal.App.4th 230, 248.) “A duty to speak may arise in four ways: it
may be directly imposed by statute or other prescriptive law; it may be
voluntarily assumed by contractual undertaking; it may arise as an incident of
a relationship between the defendant and the plaintiff; and it may arise as a
result of other conduct by the defendant that makes it wrongful for him to
remain silent.” (SCC Acquisitions, Inc. v. Central Pacific Bank (2012)
207 Cal.App.4th 859, 860.)
 
Regarding Federal
Escrow, the SAC states:
 
On or around January
25, 2022, a representative, by the name of Shawna Holbrook, who worked for
Federal and having the express and/or implied authority to speak on Federal’s
behalf, concealed the fact that the document she asked Woodward to sign was in
fact a document to transfer all her interest in the Property to Wallace;
thereby, taking all her rights away.
 
(SAC ¶ 120(j).) 
 
The representative
who worked for Federal, by the name of Shawna Holbrook, an escrow officer,
alleging she had the express and/or implied authority to speak on Federal’s
behalf, knew the fact that the document she asked Woodward to sign was in fact
a document to transfer all her interest in the Property to Wallace not just a
document to give her 10% percent. She knew this as she requested an agency send
a notary to Woodward’s house to sign a quitclaim deed. The document Woodward
signed was a quitclaim deed that completely transferred any and all rights of
Woodward to Wallace, which was never told to Woodward. Said conversation and
transfer occurred on or around January 25, 2022.
 
(SAC ¶ 92[].)
 
At issue is Federal
Escrow’s representation of the Quitclaim Deed. Federal Escrow, through
Holbrook, disclosed only part of the purpose of the document. The Court notes
“[t]he fact that a false statement may be obviously false to those who are
trained and experienced does not change its character, nor take away its power
to deceive others less experienced. There is no duty resting upon a citizen to
suspect the honesty of those with whom he [or she] transacts business. Laws are
made to protect the trusting as well as the suspicious.” (Boschma,
supra, 198 Cal.App.4th at 249 [original italics].) Though this was discussed in
the context of caveat emptor, the Court believes it is applicable to
this situation as well. That is, based on the allegations, it is reasonable to
infer that an average layperson would rely on the representations from an
escrow agent, especially when property interest is at stake.
 
Here, the Court
addressed the issue of fiduciary duty, ante. Accordingly, the duty to
disclose arose from the fiduciary relationship between the parties.
 
Regarding the
element of intent, “fraudulent intent is an issue for the trier of fact to
decide.” (Beckwith v. Dahl (2012) 205 Cal.App.4th 1039, 1061.)
 
As to the fourth
element, Plaintiff states: “Woodward relied on Wallace and Defendants concealed
or suppressed facts by believing she had no real interest in the Property and
that Wallace had the right to do whatever she wanted with the Property. Furthermore,
she believed that the deal as consummated was valid and arm’s length and not
the result of fraud and conspiracy. Woodward relied on Federal’s employee, by
the name of Shawna Holbrook’s, statement that what she was signing was the only
way to obtain her 10% of the sale, which is why she signed it.” (SAC ¶ 125.)
The Court finds this sufficient as, taken along with rest of the allegations,
the SAC shows Plaintiff was unaware that her property interest clouded title, a
sale between Wallace and Tiger 11 had occurred before Plaintiff was contacted,
Plaintiff believed the only way to receive anything related to the Property was
through signing the Quitclaim Deed presented by Federal Escrow, and Plaintiff
repeatedly emphasizes that she never agreed to sell the Property and that such
action disregarded her father’s wishes and caused her emotion[al] turmoil. 
 
As analyzed, the SAC
sufficiently pleads a claim for fraud based in concealment. 
 
(08/15/2023 SOD.) 
 
Thus, with the conspiracy
allegation taken into consideration, the SAC has sufficiently pled a cause of
action for fraud based in concealment. 
 
The Court turns next to misrepresentation.
 
As to Age, ACE, and Tiger 11, the Sixth
Cause of Action (Fraud – Misrepresentation) reads, in relevant part:
 
Woodward
is informed and believes, and based thereon, alleges that Cedric, ACE, Tiger,
and Federal, misrepresented their involvement which each other. The true value
of the Property, the true parties involved with the buyer, Tiger; . . .
 
[.
. .]
 
Knowledge
of Falsity: At the time Wallace and Defendants made the aforementioned
misrepresentations, they knew that they were false and were made solely to
induce reliance upon them by Woodward. Namely Defendants wanted to improperly
and wrongfully sell the Property to Tiger. The representative who worked for
Federal, by the name of Shawna Holbrook, an escrow officer, alleging she had
the express and/or implied authority to speak on Federal’s behalf, knew the
fact that the document she asked Woodward to sign was in fact a document to
transfer all her interest in the Property to Wallace not just a document to
give her 10% percent. She knew this as she requested an agency send a notary to
Woodward’s house to sign a quitclaim deed. The document Woodward signed was a
quitclaim deed that completely transferred any and all rights of Woodward to
Wallace, which was never told to Woodward. Said conversation and transfer
occurred on or around January 25, 2022
 
(SAC ¶¶ 91-92[1].)
 
“Any
action sounding in fraud … must be pleaded with particularity,” a standard
informally known as the heightened pleading standard for claims of fraud. (City
of Pomona v. Superior Court (2001) 89 Cal.App.4th 793, 803; see also Wilhelm
v. Pray, Price, Williams & Russell (1986) 186 Cal.App.3d 1324, 1332 [every
element of fraud is properly subject to particularity requirement].) This
heightened pleading standard requires a plaintiff to plead, inter alia, facts
in her complaint showing “how, when, where, to whom, and by what means the
representations [amounting to fraud] were tendered.” (Stansfield v. Starkey
(1990) 220 Cal.App.3d 59, 73; see also State of California ex rel. McCann v.
Bank of America, N.A. (2011) 191 Cal.App.4th 897, 904 (plaintiff must
allege "time, place, and contents of the false representations").
However, [l]ess
specificity is required when it ‘appears from the nature of the allegations
that the defendant must necessarily possess full information concerning the
facts of the controversy.’ ” (Committee on Children's Television, Inc. v. General
Foods Corp. (1983) 35 Cal.3d 197, 216 [quoting Bradley v. Hartford
Acc.& Indem. Co. (1973) 30 Cal.App.3d 818, 825].) The
specificity requirement is greatly relaxed or eliminated under
circumstances where the defendant must necessarily possess superior information
of the fraud. (Id, at 216-217; see also Silberg v. Anderson
(1990) 50 Cal.3d 205, 212-213.) The Court believes that this action
is one in which the pleadings support an inference that all defendants possess
superior information. 
 
A cause
of action for misrepresentation requires an affirmative statement. (See SB
Vineyards, LLC v. Orsi (2017) 15 Cal.App.5th 1089, 1102.) Here, there are
no representations that anyone spoke to Plaintiff regarding “[all defendants]
involvement which each other[, t]he true value of the Property, [and] the true
parties involved with the buyer, Tiger[.]” (See SAC ¶ 91.)
 
The Court cannot ignore the allegations of conspiracy. The Court then
looks at the co-conspirators:
 
The
Court first addresses fraud based on misrepresentation.
 
“The
elements of fraud that will give rise to a tort action for deceit are: “ ‘(a)
misrepresentation (false representation, concealment, or nondisclosure); (b)
knowledge of falsity (or ‘scienter’); (c) intent to defraud, i.e., to induce
reliance; (d) justifiable reliance; and (e) resulting damage.’ ” (Engalla v.
Permanente Medical Group, Inc. (1997) 15 Cal.4th 951, 974.)
 
As
to Federal Escrow, the SAC states:
 
Federal
misrepresented the nature of the document it had Woodward sign, which caused
Woodward to transfer all her interest in the Property to Wallace.
 
(SAC
¶ 91(e).)
 
The
misrepresentation in the Sixth Cause of Action as to Federal Escrow is the
representation of the document. However, case precedent holds “a cause of
action for misrepresentation requires an affirmative statement, not an implied
assertion. [Citation.]” (RSB Vineyards, LLC v. Orsi (2017) 15
Cal.App.5th 1089, 1102 (“RSB Vineyards”.) To come to that holding the RSB
Vineyards court relied upon Apollo Capital Fund LLC v. Roth Capital
Partners, LLC (2007) 158 Cal.App.4th 226, 243 (“Apollo Capital Fund”),
which states: “. . .[A] positive assertion is required; an omission or an
implied assertion or representation is not sufficient. [Citations.]” The Court
notes that Apollo Capital Fund discussed the need for an affirmative
representation in the context of negligent misrepresentation; however, RSB
Vineyards expanded the holding to intentional misrepresentation.
 
Plaintiff
states clearly in her Opposition: “Lastly Plaintiff is not challenging the
condition of the statement because it did allow her to get her 10% but it also
caused her to sign over all her interest in the property, which was not told to
her and was the true purpose of the document.” (Opp. 12:22-24.) Thus, no
affirmative statement was made. 
 
Accordingly,
the Sixth Cause of Action for Fraudulent Misrepresentation is not properly
pled.
 
(08/15/2023 SOD.) 
 
There is
no liability based on co-conspirator Federal. The Court turns next to its
analysis of co-conspirator Wallace:
 
A cause of action
for misrepresentation requires an affirmative statement. (See SB Vineyards,
LLC v. Orsi (2017) 15 Cal.App.5th 1089, 1102.) Here, there are no
allegations related to statements that Wallace made to Plaintiff. Despite the
SAC’s allegations in paragraph 131, the only statement discussed in this cause
of action is that from Shawna Holbrook, an escrow officer from Federal. (See SAC
¶¶ 131(e), 92.) However, the cause of action incorporates each preceding
paragraph. The beginning paragraphs of the SAC describe the interactions that
Plaintiff had with Wallace: 
 
Wallace acknowledged
the fact the Property was going to Woodward on several occasions
 
[. . .]
 
On or around October
8, 2021, Wallace caused her retained counsel to send Woodward a Receipt of
Final Distribution whereby Wallace transferred all rights in the Property to
Woodward outright; therein waving her and the Trust’s ability to hold the
remaining 90% until her death. Woodward accepted. Woodward signed and returned
the Receipt of Final Distribution. (See Exhibit 2.) Therein Woodward
immediately became a 100% equitable and legal owner in the Property.
 
On or around
November 2021, Wallace again contacted Woodward through counsel letting her
know the deed had been signed and Woodward needed to send back the preliminary
change of ownership form to be filed with the county. (See Exhibit 4.) 
 
However, sometime
after November 2021, Wallace contacted Woodward and told her she was no longer
transferring the Property to her, which had already 100% vested in Plaintiff,
and instead would be selling the Property, which the Trust no longer had title to
and did not authorize. 
 
Woodward never
agreed to sell the Property.
 
(SAC ¶¶ 20-31.) 
 
The exhibits
incorporated into the Complaint support this. Exh. 1 is the trust which
provides: “If SPENCER BRACEY WALLACE JR is the Deceased Settler, then ten
percent (10%) of title and ownership to the property located at 2534 Carmona
Avenue, Los Angeles, California, shall be transferred to PATRICIA ANN WOODWARD,
immediately and outright.” (SAC Exh. 1 at Trust Division IV.) Exh. 2 depicts
contact between Wallace, through counsel, sent on October 04, 2021, which
states that (1) the Receipt of Final Distribution will enable Plaintiff to
receive title to the Property; (2) Plaintiff needs to sign and date the
document; (3) contains a document which reads, in relevant part: “I hereby
acknowledge receipt of this full and final distribution and transfer of all title,
rights and obligations to the real property, commonly known as 2534 Carmona
Avenue, City of Los Angeles, State of California (Assessor Parcel Number
5048-001-042), from the Surviving Settlor and Trustee, JANICE LOUISE WALLACE.
In addition, I acknowledge and accept that I have been advised that this a full
and final distribution of my inheritance under this Trust . . .[;]” and (4) the
document is signed by Plaintiff and dated October 08, 2021. Exh. 4 depicts
contact between Wallace, through counsel, sent on November 23, 2021, which
states: (1) Wallace signed a Quitclaim Deed, naming Plaintiff as owner of the
Property; (2) Plaintiff needed to sign and file documents, such as a
Preliminary Change of Ownership Report and Reassessment Exclusion for Transfer
Between Parent and Child, and provide a filing fee; (3) certain items are not
mandatory (ex. documents can be recorded without the PCOR, but tax will be
based on an assessed value and a re-assessment will occur); and (4) as a result
of this inheritance, Plaintiff will be responsible for all expenses related to
the Property.
 
These interactions
between Wallace and Plaintiff are sufficient to plead an affirmative statement.
It also appears that these interactions, and the later selling of the Property,
led to the statement by Shawna Holbrook, an escrow officer from Federal, which
resulted in Plaintiff’s signing of the Quitclaim Deed. 
 
There are two types
of misrepresentation: intentional and negligent. The SAC appears to be alleging
intentional misrepresentation. (See SAC ¶ 132.) “[F]raudulent intent is an
issue for the trier of fact to decide.” (Beckwith v. Dahl (2012) 205
Cal.App.4th 1039, 1061.) At the pleading stage, with regards to intent, a
plaintiff need must allege a knowingly false representation by the defendant
and an intent to deceive or induce reliance. (Medallion, Inc. v. Clorox Co.
(1996) 44 Cal.App.4th 1807, 1816.) Such allegations are alleged and supported
by the exhibits.
 
Plaintiff relied on
the statements made by all defendants at different points throughout the events
that make up this action – (1) that Plaintiff would receive title to the
Property stated by Wallace, through counsel; (2) later, that Wallace could sell
and would sell the Property; (3) that the Property was sold; and (4) that in
order to obtain the anything from the Property, specifically 10% of the
proceeds, Plaintiff had to sign the Quitclaim Deed. The SAC is unclear as to
whether Plaintiff took action after receiving the correspondence shown in
Exhibit 4. However, the SAC shows reliance on Wallace’s aforementioned
statements as Plaintiff signed the Final Receipt of Distribution. The Court
believes this to be sufficient at this stage of the pleadings. 
 
The resulting damage
is clear: Plaintiff was deprived of ownership in the Property. 
 
The SAC has
sufficiently pled a claim for Fraud – Misrepresentation as to Wallace. 
 
(09/26/2023
Tentative SOD as to Wallace.) 
 
Accordingly,
the SAC has sufficiently pled a claim for fraud based in misrepresentation
against Age, ACE, and Tiger 11 due to the conspiracy allegations. 
 
e.      Seventh
Cause of Action (Negligence) and Eighth Cause of Action (NIED)
 
Defendants
Age, ACE, and Tiger 11 argue that Plaintiff was not a party to, nor a
third-party beneficiary of, any contract thus the alleged duty arising from
contract does not exist, so the only alternative is agency and Plaintiff must
demonstrate that she and Age consented to the agency relationship between them.
Defendants Age, ACE, and Tiger 11 argue that Plaintiff cannot do this as there
are no facts alleged establishing that Age knew of Plaintiff. 
“ ‘The
elements of a cause of action for negligence are well established. They are
“(a) a legal duty to use due care; (b) a breach of such legal duty; [and] (c) the
breach as the proximate or legal cause of the resulting injury.” ’ ” (Ladd
v. County of San Mateo (1996) 12 Cal.4th 913, 917.) 
 
Plaintiff
includes the Negligence and NIED arguments within her fiduciary argument. 
 
It
appears that the Reply does not contain an argument for the Negligence or NIED
claims.
 
The Court
has described Plaintiff’s ownership or interest in the Property, ante.
Despite Plaintiff’s, at minimum 10% interest in the Property, Plaintiff was not
included in the contract between Wallace and Age. Because of this, Age’s
principal was Wallace and not Plaintiff. However, “[o]ne who officiously, and
without the consent of the real or apparent owner of a thing, takes it into his
possession for the purpose of rendering a service about it, must complete such
service, and use ordinary care, diligence, and reasonable skill about the
same.” (Cal. Civ. Code § 2078.)  Age took
into his possession the Property for rendering a service, selling the Property.
Using ordinary care, diligence, and reasonable skill in performing such an
action would uncover that the title of the Property was clouded. Despite this,
as pled in the SAC, Age as broker, sold the Property to Tiger 11, his own
company. Thus, there was a duty and breach. Such breach caused injury to
Plaintiff in the form of her lost ownership and/or interest in the Property.
 
Thus, a
claim for negligence has been properly pled.
 
Regarding
NIED, Defendants Age, ACE, and Tiger 11 argue that recovery of emotional
distress damages for negligence is (1) available only if the emotional distress
arises out of the defendant's breach of a legal duty, and (2) must have been
proximately caused by that breach of duty. Defendants Age, ACE, and Tiger 11
argue that Plaintiff has failed to establish that any of them owed her a duty
of care, therefore a claim for NIED fails.
 
The
necessary elements for NIED are: (1) the defendant's legal duty to use due
care; (2) the defendant's breach of such a legal duty; (3) causation; and (4)
damages in the form of serious emotional distress. (Huggins v. Longs Drug
Stores California, Inc. (1993) 6 Cal.4th 124, 129; Bogard v. Emplrs
Casualty Co. (1985) 164 Cal.App.3d 602, 618 [serious emotional distress is
essential element for NIED].) The doctrine of NIED is not a separate tort or
cause of action, but rather allows certain persons to recover damages for
emotional distress only on a negligence cause of action even though they were
not otherwise injured or harmed. (See Molien v. Kaiser Foundation Hospitals
(1980) 27 Cal.3d 916, 928; see also Witkin, Summary of Cal. Law (9th ed. 1988)
Torts, § 838, p. 195) 
 
As to the
emotional distress suffered, Plaintiff presents the following for the NIED
claim:
 

“Woodward is informed and believes, and based
     thereon, alleges that Defendants knew, or should have known, that their
     actions described above and throughout this Complaint would cause Woodward
     severe emotional distress as they sold her home without her permission.”
     (SAC ¶ 148.)
“As a further proximate result of Defendants’
     actions and the consequences proximately caused by it, as hereinabove
     alleged, Woodward suffered severe humiliation, mental anguish, and severe
     emotional and physical pain and distress, in an amount according to proof
     at trial, plus pre-judgment interest and collection costs.” (SAC ¶ 150.)

 
The Court
has already determined that an action for Negligence exists based on the facts
alleged in the SAC. (See ante.) 
 
Here,
while the facts underlying this “cause of action” are duplicative of
Plaintiff’s separate Negligence cause of action, the damages sought are
different. Courts have gone both ways on demurrers for NIED with some
sustaining them, and some overruling them. The Court allows the NIED cause
action to proceed as it seeks a different form of recovery than the Negligence
cause of action.  
 
f.      Ninth
Cause of Action (IIED)
 
Defendants
Age, ACE, and Tiger 11 argue that Plaintiff cannot show that she was a party to
or a third-party beneficiary of any contract with demurring defendants, that
she was not the legal owner of the Property, and that no facts are established
that show that demurring defendants knew Plaintiff existed. 
 
Plaintiff
argues that she has pled the elements of an IIED claim as the conduct alleged
is outrageous and directed at Plaintiff.
 
Defendants
Age, ACE, and Tiger 11’s Reply reiterates that Plaintiff is not an owner of the
Property. 
 
The Court
has addressed the issue of ownership, ante. 
 
Crouch provides a summary
of IIED at the demurrer stage in the context of California law:
 
A cause of
action for IIED requires proof of: (1) extreme and outrageous conduct by the
defendant with the intention of causing, or reckless disregard of the probability
of causing, emotional distress; (2) the plaintiff suffered severe emotional
distress; and (3) the defendant's extreme and outrageous conduct was the actual
and proximate cause of the severe emotional distress. (Hughes v. Pair
(2009) 46 Cal.4th 1035, 1050 [95 Cal. Rptr. 3d 636, 209 P.3d 963].)
 
A defendant's
conduct is considered to be outrageous if “it is so ‘“‘extreme as to exceed all
bounds of that usually tolerated in a civilized community.’”’” (Hughes v.
Pair, supra, 46 Cal.4th at p. 1051; see Potter v. Firestone Tire
& Rubber Co. (1993) 6 Cal.4th 965, 1001 [25 Cal. Rptr. 2d 550, 863 P.2d
795]; see also Rest.2d Torts, § 46, com. d, p. 73.) Liability for IIED does not
extend to “‘“mere insults, indignities, threats, annoyances, petty oppressions,
or other trivialities.”’” (Hughes v. Pair, supra, 46 Cal.4th at
p. 1051.) Malicious or evil purpose is not essential to liability for IIED. (Spinks
v. Equity Residential Briarwood Apartments (2009) 171 Cal.App.4th 1004,
1045 [90 Cal. Rptr. 3d 453].)
 
California's
definition of extreme and outrageous conduct is based on comment d to section
46 of the Restatement Second of Torts. (See Hughes v. Pair, supra,
46 Cal.4th at p. 1051.) Comment d to section 46 states: “Liability has been
found only where the conduct has been so outrageous in character, and so
extreme in degree, as to go beyond all possible bounds of decency, and to be
regarded as atrocious, and utterly intolerable in a civilized community.
Generally, the case is one in which the recitation of the facts to an average
member of the community would arouse his resentment against the actor, and lead
him to exclaim, ‘Outrageous!’” (Rest.2d Torts, § 46, com. d, p. 73.)
 
(Crouch, supra, 39
Cal.App.5th at 1007.)
 
In Stoiber v. Honeychuck (1980)
101 Cal.App.3d 903, the appellate court held: “ ‘Behavior may be considered
outrageous if a defendant (1) abuses a relation or position which gives him
power to damage the plaintiff's interest; (2) knows the plaintiff is
susceptible to injuries through mental distress; or (3) acts intentionally or
unreasonably with the recognition that the acts are likely to result in illness
through mental distress.’ [Citation.]” In this case, Plaintiff alleges that she
suffered “extreme emotional distress” as a result of defendants due to
Defendants Age, ACE, and Tiger 11’s conduct, which includes “1) converting
Woodward’s Property; 2) misrepresenting key facts about her interest and rights
in the sale; and 3) fraudulently inducing her into signing her interest away,
with the intention of causing, or in reckless disregard of the probability of
causing, severe emotional and physical pain and distress to [Plaintiff.]” (SAC
¶ 152.) It is clear that the actions taken by Defendants Age, ACE, Tiger 11,
and their alleged co-conspirators go beyond “mere insults, indignities,
threats, annoyances, petty oppressions, or other trivialities.” (See Crouch,
supra, 39 Cal.App.5th at 1007 [citing Hughes v. Pair, supra,
46 Cal.4th at 1051].) 
 
Liberally construing the
allegations of the SAC in favor of Plaintiff, the Court finds the Ninth Cause
of Action for IIED sufficiently pled.
 
The Court notes that IIED is a
tort and that the conspiracy allegations would apply as well as the Court has
found that the SAC has sufficiently pled a claim for IIED against alleged
co-conspirators Federal (See 08/15/2023 SOD) and Wallace (09/26/2023 Tentative
SOD as to Wallace).
 
g.    
Tenth Cause of Action (Breach of Covenant of
Good Faith and Fair Dealings)
 
Defendants
Age, ACE, and Tiger 11 argue that because there is no contractual relationship
between any of them and Plaintiff, there cannot be a breach of covenant of good
faith and fair dealing. 
 
Plaintiff
includes her argument for this cause of action within the argument for the
Breach of Contract cause of action.
 
It
appears that there is no argument in the Reply that is specific to this cause
of action. 
 
“There is
no obligation to deal fairly or in good faith absent an existing contract. If
there exists a contractual relationship between the parties . . . the implied
covenant is limited to assuring compliance with the express terms of the
contract, and cannot be extended to create obligations not contemplated in the
contract.” (Racine &Laramie, Ltd. v. Department of Parks &
Recreation (1992) 11 Cal.App.4th 1026, 1032 [internal citations omitted].)
“Although breach of the implied covenant often is pleaded as a separate count,
a breach of the implied covenant is necessarily a breach of contract.” (Digerati
Holdings, LLC v. Young Money Entertainment, LLC (2011) 194Cal.App.4th 873,
885.) 
 
The Court
incorporates its analysis for the First Cause of Action. The Court found that
there was no contract between the parties. As such, the Tenth Cause of Action
is not sufficiently pled.
 
h.    
Eleventh Cause of Action (Quiet Title)
 
Defendants
Age, ACE, and Tiger 11 argue that Plaintiff never held legal title to the
Property, so she cannot carry a claim to quiet title. 
 
Plaintiff
argues that a reading of the SAC shows that she has properly pled sufficient
facts to constitute a valid Quiet Title claim against Defendants Age, ACE, and
Tiger 11.
 
Defendants
Age, ACE, and Tiger 11’s Reply reiterates that Plaintiff is not an owner of the
Property. 
 
The Court
has addressed ownership, ante, and held that the Quitclaim Deed creates
a reasonable inference that, at one point, Plaintiff did have ownership or an
interest in the Property. As such, Defendants Age, ACE, and Tiger 11’s argument
fails.
 
i.      
Twelfth Cause of Action (Unjust Enrichment)
 
Defendants
Age, ACE, and Tiger11 argue that (1) unjust enrichment is not a cause of
action, and (2) even if it could be a cause of action, such a claim would rest
on the obligation to do justice if one obtains the money or property of others
without authority and Plaintiff has no legal ownership in the Property, thus
there has been no detriment to Plaintiff. 
 
Plaintiff
argues that Unjust Enrichment is a valid theory of recovery.
 
Defendants
Age, ACE, and Tiger 11’s Reply reiterates that Plaintiff is not an owner of the
Property, so Unjust Enrichment fails.
 
The Court
as discussed ownership, ante.
 
It appears that appellate courts
differ as to their opinions on whether unjust enrichment is a cause of action.
(See Lectrodryer v. SeoulBank (2000) 77 Cal.App.4th 723 (“Lectrodryer”)
[a case in the Second Appellate District, recognizing a cause of action for
unjust enrichment] and Rutherford Holdings LLC v. Plaza Del Rey (2014)
223 Cal.App.4th 221 [a case in the Sixth Appellate District, holding “[u]njust
enrichment is not a cause of action, however, or even a remedy, but rather a
general principle, underlying various legal doctrines and remedies...it is
synonymous with restitution.”].) 
 
When appellate decisions are in
conflict on a point, the court exercising inferior jurisdiction must choose
between the conflicting decisions. (Auto Equity Sales, Inc. v. Superior
Court of Santa Clara County (1962) 57 Cal.2d 450, 456.) “
 
In 2015, the California Supreme
Court held: 
 
An individual who
has been unjustly enriched at the expense of another may be required to make
restitution. (See Ghirardo v. Antonioli (1996) 14 Cal.4th 39, 51 [57
Cal. Rptr. 2d 687, 924 P.2d 996]; see also Rest.3d Restitution and Unjust
Enrichment, § 1; 1 Witkin, Summary of Cal. Law (10th ed. 2005) Contracts, §
1013, p. 1102.) Where the doctrine applies, the law implies a restitutionary
obligation, even if no contract between the parties itself expresses or implies
such a duty. (See Buss, supra, 16 Cal.4th at p. 51.) Though
this restitutionary obligation is often described as quasi-contractual, a
privity of relationship between the parties is not necessarily required.
(Ibid.; see CTC Real Estate Services v. Lepe (2006) 140
Cal.App.4th 856, 860–861 [44 Cal. Rptr. 3d 823].)
 
Restitution is not
mandated merely because one person has realized a gain at another's expense.
Rather, the obligation arises when the enrichment obtained lacks any adequate
legal basis and thus “cannot conscientiously be retained.” (Rest.3d Restitution
and Unjust Enrichment, § 1, com. b, p. 6.)
 
(Hartford Casualty Ins. Co. v.
J.R. Marketing L.L.C. (2015) 61 Cal. 4th 988, 998 (“Hartford Casualty
Ins. Co.”) [emphasis added].)
 
As such, the Court allows the
Unjust Enrichment Cause of Action to remain. 
 
Hartford Casualty Ins. Co.,
however, did not deal with similar facts at hand. The Court turns to the
holding in Lectrodryer. “The elements for a claim of unjust enrichment
[are] receipt of a benefit and unjust retention of the benefit at the expense
of another.” (Lectrodryer, supra, 77 Cal.App.4th at 726.)
 
The Court
has discussed Plaintiff’s ownership and/or interest in the Property, ante.
It is clear that Defendants Age, ACE, and Tiger 11 have received a benefit from
the Property at the expense of Plaintiff either through their actions, the
actions of their co-conspirators, or both.
 
Accordingly,
the Twelfth Cause of Action for Unjust Enrichment has been sufficiently pled.
 

Thirteenth Cause of Action (Violation of Bus.
     & Prof Code Section 17200)

 
Defendants
Age, ACE, and Tiger 11 argue that, because Plaintiff did not have legal title
to the Property, she has not suffered an actual injury resulting in lost money
or property as a result of demurring defendants and, thus, the pleadings cannot
support a claim under Cal. Bus. & Prof. Code § 17200, et seq. 
 
Plaintiff
presents that she has pled actual injury, standing, and causation as she has
pled that she had legal ownership in the Property, that the Property was stolen
from her, and that Defendants Age, ACE, and Tiger 11 were the cause of her
injury. 
 
Defendants
Age, ACE, and Tiger 11’s Reply reiterates that Plaintiff is not an owner of the
Property. 
 
Bus.
& Prof. Code § 17200 permits recovery for “any unlawful, unfair, or
fraudulent business act or practice.”¿ (Bus. & Prof. Code § 17200.)¿ To
successfully plead a UCL claim for unfair business practices, a plaintiff must
allege facts justifying relief in the form of protecting the public from unfair
business practices or deceptive advertising. (Day v. AT&T Corp.
(1998) 63 Cal.App.4th 325, 331-332.) 
 
Pursuant
to Bus. & Prof. Code, § 17204, a private party must have “suffered injury
in fact and has lost money or property as a result of the unfair competition”
to pursue a claim. “To satisfy the narrower standing requirements imposed by
Proposition 64, a party must now (1) establish a loss or deprivation of money
or property sufficient to qualify as injury in fact, i.e., economic injury, and
(2) show that that economic injury was the result of, i.e., caused by, the
unfair business practice or false advertising that is the gravamen of the
claim.” (Kwikset Corp. v. Superior Court (2011) 51 Cal.4th 310, 322.)
“There are innumerable ways in which economic injury from unfair competition
may be shown. A plaintiff may (1) surrender in a transaction more, or acquire
in a transaction less, than he or she otherwise would have; (2) have a present
or future property interest diminished; (3) be deprived of money or property to
which he or she has a cognizable claim; or (4) be required to enter into a
transaction, costing money or property, that would otherwise have been
unnecessary.” (Id. at 323.) 
 
Plaintiff
has suffered injury in fact through the loss of her property interest and,
based on the pleadings, such loss is the result of Defendants Age, ACE, and
Tiger 11 or their co-conspirator’s conduct. Plaintiff has standing to bring a
UCL claim.
The SAC reads, in relevant part:
 
The conduct of
Federal, Tiger, Cedric, and ACE as alleged herein, and throughout this
complaint constitutes unfair, unlawful, and/or fraudulent business practices
under California’s Unfair Competition Law, Bus. & Prof. Code §§ 17200 et
seq, including without limitation, their efforts to wrongfully sale and
transfer title in the Property without Woodward’s permission
 
Specifically:
Woodward is informed and believes, and based thereon, alleges that Cedric, ACE,
Tiger, and Federal, all public businesses performed business practice acts,
which effect the public, that included knowingly and willfully conspiring and
agreeing among each other to conceal Cedric, ACE, Tiger, and Federal’s,
personal and financial involvement with each other in an effort to purchase the
Property. These actions are even more egregious as Cedric was the broker on the
deal for the buyer, Tiger, and the seller. Cedric is also the vice president
and treasurer of Tiger. Cedric is also the owner of ACE. These positions put
Cedric and ACE in a position to ensure their conspiracy with Tiger, and
Federal, would succeed with little concern for discovery. And it did as the
Property was sold. Cedric, ACE, Tiger, and Federal’s behavior and actions are
beyond malicious, oppressive, reprehensible, and intentional. The purpose of
their conspiracy was to line their pockets at the expense of Woodward, the
rightful owner. Cedric, ACE, Tiger, and Federal used their position to defraud
Woodward. Specifically Federal knowingly mislead and/or unduly pressured
Woodward into signing a document to transfer all her interest in her Property
without first properly explaining and/or telling her what the document she
would be signing would be. That predicate must be a business act or practice
that would likely deceive members of the public, which defendants’ acts were. (Bank
of the West v. Superior Court (1992) 2 Cal. 4th 1254, 1267.)
 
Said acts and/or
practices detailed above and throughout this Complaint are a danger to the
public at larger for the following reasons:
 
[. . .]
 
c. Federal, an
escrow company, that performs fraudulent and tortious acts to improperly allow
its buying parties to acquire title to homes is of the utmost danger to the
public. These acts of defrauding the true owner of the Property for others’
benefit are of the utmost danger to the buyers and sellers i.e., public.
 
(SAC ¶¶ 170-171.)
 
“In consumer cases, the [California] Supreme
Court has not established a definitive test to determine whether a business
practice is unfair. [Citations.]” (Drum v. San Fernando Valley Bar Assn.
(2010) 182 Cal.App.4th 247, 256.) There are three types of tests for unfairness
in consumer cases: (1) “that the public policy which is a predicate to a
consumer unfair competition action under the ‘unfair’ prong of the UCL must be
tethered to specific constitutional, statutory, or regulatory provisions[;]”
(2) “whether the alleged business practice ‘is immoral, unethical, oppressive,
unscrupulous or substantially injurious to consumers and requires the court to
weigh the utility of the defendant’s conduct against the gravity of the harm to
the alleged victim[;]’ ” and (3) a three-part test that requires the consumer
injury be substantial, that the injury must not be outweighed by any
countervailing benefits to consumers or competition, and the injury must be an
injury that consumers themselves could not reasonably have avoided. (Id.
at 256-57.) 
 
Case law has held “ ‘In order to state a cause of action under the fraud prong of
[section 17200] a plaintiff need not show that he or others were actually
deceived or confused by the conduct or business practice in question. ‘The
“fraud” prong of [section 17200] is unlike common law fraud or deception. A
violation can be shown even if no one was actually deceived, relied upon the
fraudulent practice, or sustained any damage. Instead, it is only necessary to
show that members of the public are likely to be deceived.’ [Citations.] (Schnall
v. Hertz Corp. (2000) 78 Cal.App.4th 1144, 1167–1168 [93 Cal. Rptr. 2d 439].)” (Progressive
West Ins. Co. v. Superior Court, 135 Cal.App.4th 263, 284.) “Unless the
challenged conduct ‘ “targets a
particular disadvantaged or vulnerable group, it is judged by the effect it
would have on a reasonable consumer.” ’ [Citation.]” (Puentes, supra,
160 Cal.App.4th 638, 645 [citing Aron v. U-Haul Co. of California (2006)
143 Cal.App.4th 796, 806].)  
 
An unlawful business practice under
section 17200 is “ ‘an act or
practice, committed pursuant to business activity, that is at the same time
forbidden by law. [Citation.]’ ” (Bernardo v. Planned Parenthood Federation of America
(2004) 115 Cal.App.4th 322, 351; See also Smith v. State Farm Mutual
Automobile Ins. Co. (2001) 93 Cal.App.4th 700, 717-718; Progressive West
Ins. Co., supra, 135 Cal.App.4th 263 at 287.)  
 
The SAC
is sufficient to meet the requirements of the unfair prong under the second
test and the fraud prong as Plaintiff as the Court has discussed, ante.
 
Accordingly,
the Thirteenth Cause of Action for Violation of Bus. & Prof Code Section
17200 is sufficiently pled.
 
k.    
Fourteenth Cause of Action (Declaratory Relief)
 
Defendants
Age, ACE, and Tiger 11 argue that Plaintiff cannot seek declaratory relief
because she was never an owner of the Property and cannot seek declaratory
relief as she does not have a real interest in the ultimate adjudication of the
issue because she has neither suffered nor is about to suffer any injury of
sufficient magnitude reasonably to assure that all of the relevant facts and
issues will be adequately presented.
 
Plaintiff
argues that a reading of the SAC shows that she has properly pled sufficient
facts to constitute a valid Declaratory Relief claim against Defendants Age,
ACE, and Tiger 11.
 
Defendants
Age, ACE, and Tiger 11’s Reply reiterates that Plaintiff is not an owner of the
Property.
 
The Court
has addressed ownership, ante, and held that the Quitclaim Deed creates
a reasonable inference that, at one point, Plaintiff did have ownership or an
interest in the Property. As such, Defendants Age, ACE, and Tiger 11’s argument
fails.
 
l.      
Uncertainty 
 
Defendants
Age, ACE, and Tiger 11 also set forth two arguments (contract-based claims,
duty based claims) to which they believe the Demurrer can be sustained for
uncertainty. 
 
Plaintiff
presents that she has alleged the terms of the contract, the sale of the
property, and that she has alleged all facts supporting all duty causes of
actions. 
 
Defendant
Age, ACE, and Tiger 11 argues that the language used in the SAC is broad and
fails to specifically allege which parts of a number of different contracts
were breached by the them. 
 
Cal. Code
Civ. Proc. § 430.10 defines “uncertain” as ambiguous and unintelligible. 
 
This is
not the case as there is a clear legal standard and argument for each cause of
action in the SAC. Further, Defendants Age, ACE, and Tiger 11 have been able to
provide arguments as to the merits of each cause of action for this Demurrer. Moreover,
demurrers for uncertainty are disfavored and are only granted where the
complaint is so unclear that the defendant cannot reasonably state a response “because
ambiguities can be clarified under modern discovery procedures.” (See Khoury
v. Maly's of Calif. (1993) 14 Cal.App.4th 612, 616.)
 
-----
 
Defendants Cedric Age, ACE
Reality, and Tiger 11’s Demurrer is OVERRULED as to uncertainty, the Fourth
Cause of Action (Conversion against all defendants), the Fifth Cause of Action
(Fraud – Concealment against all defendants), the Sixth Cause of Action (Fraud-
Misrepresentation against all defendants), the Seventh Cause of Action
(Negligence against all defendants), the Eighth Cause of Action (Negligent
Infliction of Emotional Distress against all defendants), the Ninth Cause of
Action (Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress against all defendants),
the Eleventh Cause of Action (Quiet Title against Tiger 11), the Twelfth Cause
of Action (Unjust Enrichment against all defendants), Thirteenth Cause of
Action (Violation of Bus. & Prof. Code §§ 17200, et seq. against all
defendants), and the Fourteenth Cause of Action (Declaratory Relief against all
defendants).
 
Defendants Cedric Age, ACE
Reality, and Tiger 11’s Demurrer is SUSTAINED as to the First Cause of Action
(Breach of Contract against Defendants Cedric Age, Ace Realty, and Federal
Escrow) and Third Cause of Action (Breach of Fiduciary Duties against all defendants).

 
 
ii.    
Motion to Strike
 
Defendants
Age, ACE, Tiger 11 move to strike the following:
 
1.    
Paragraph 71, in its entirety, as to CEDRIC AGE, an
individual; and ACE REALTY; TIGER 11, INC.
2.    
Paragraph 78, in its entirety, as to CEDRIC AGE, an
individual; and ACE REALTY; TIGER 11, INC. 
3.    
Paragraph 107, in its entirety, as to CEDRIC AGE, an
individual; and ACE REALTY; TIGER 11, INC. 
4.    
Paragraph 128, in its entirety, as to CEDRIC AGE, an
individual; and ACE REALTY; TIGER 11, INC. 
5.    
Paragraph 136, in its entirety, as to CEDRIC AGE, an
individual; and ACE REALTY; TIGER 11, INC. 
6.    
Paragraph 156, in its entirety, as to CEDRIC AGE, an
individual; and ACE REALTY; TIGER 11, INC. 
7.    
Paragraph 173, in its entirety, as to CEDRIC AGE, an
individual; and ACE REALTY; TIGER 11, INC. 
8.    
Those portions of the prayer identified as: “….AS TO
THE THIRD, SEVENTH, TENTH, ELEVENTH, TWELFTH, AND FOURTEENTH CAUSES OF
ACTION….2. For punitive damages in the amount in excess of $3,300,000.00.”
 
Defendants
Age, ACE, and Tiger 11 categorize these paragraphs as references to punitive or
exemplary damages and believe they are improper. 
 
Defendants
Age, ACE, and Tiger 11 argues that the general rule in California is that a
showing of malice, either in fact or actual, is needed for such damages. Defendants
Age, ACE, and Tiger 11 then cite Grieves v. Superior Ct. (1984) 157
Cal.App.3d 159, 166 (“Grieves”) which reads: “The mere allegation an
intentional tort was committed is not sufficient to warrant an award of
punitive damages ... Not only must there be circumstances of oppression, fraud
or malice, but facts must be alleged in the pleading to support such a claim.” Defendants
Age, ACE, and Tiger 11 then argue that the SAC fails to provide any facts which
allows Plaintiff to recover punitive damages as she failed to demonstrate that
she was a legal owner of the property or had any contractual relationship with
defendants and that Plaintiff has impermissibly included an amount for the punitive
damages as Cal. Civ. Code § 3295(e) provides: “no claim for exemplary damages
shall state an amount or amounts.”
 
Plaintiff
argues that she has alleged facts to support punitive damages as she has shown
that Defendants Age, ACE, and Tiger 11 acted with, at minimum, a willful and
conscious disregard of Plaintiff’s rights. Plaintiff highlights that the SAC
shows malice, oppression, and/or fraud. Plaintiff does not believe her
allegations are conclusory. Plaintiff further argues that she has not stated an
exact amount of damages by stating that she seeks an amount “in excess of
$3,300,000.00” in the Prayer. However, Plaintiff states that, if the Court
believes it runs afoul of the rule, she will concede to its striking. 
 
Defendants
Age, ACE, and Tiger 11 argue that Plaintiff has not pointed to malice,
oppression or fraud as (1) the Opposition contains nothing but string
citations, (2) converting property is a legal conclusion; and (3) there are no
allegations that they misrepresented Plaintiff’s interest or right in the sale
or induced her to sign the Quitclaim Deed.
 
First,
the Court has addressed Plaintiff’s ownership, ante, and determined
that, at some point, Plaintiff did have ownership or an interest in the
Property.
 
Next, Defendant’s
Age, ACE, and Tiger 11’s own citations show that punitive damages can be
satisfied by circumstances of oppression and fraud, not just malice.
 
To obtain punitive damages under California
law, a plaintiff must establish “by clear and convincing evidence that the defendant
has been guilty of oppression, fraud, or malice.” Cal. Civ. Code § 3294(a). To
maintain a claim for punitive damages against a corporation, a plaintiff must
demonstrate oppressive, fraudulent, or malicious conduct on behalf of an
officer, director, or managing agent of the corporation. (See Cal. Civ. Code §
3294(b).)
 
As to the requirement for fraud, oppression,
or malice, Plaintiff has alleged sufficient facts that defendant Age, ACE, and
Tiger 11 misrepresented facts via the conspiracy allegation. ACE and Tiger 11
are corporations. The SAC evidences that Age is an incorporator, treasurer, and
vice president of Tiger 11 (SAC Exh. 7) and that Age does business as ACE (SAC
Exh. 9). The Court notes that Age’s relation to both ACE and Tiger 11 have also
been conceded in this Motion to Strike. (See Motion to Strike 6:11-15 [“Janice
hired CEDRIC AGE (“Cedric”) and his real estate brokerage, ACE REALTY (“Ace”)
to market and sell the Property and that Janice further sold the Property to
TIGER 11, INC., (“Tiger”) an entity f]r which Age is an officer.”].) The SAC
has met the requirements to maintain a claim for punitive damages against ACE
and Tiger 11 as corporations.
 
Finally, the Court turns to the amount
requested in the SAC. The SAC reads:
 
AS TO THE THIRD, SEVENTH, TENTH, ELEVENTH,
TWELFTH, AND FOURTEENTH CAUSES OF ACTION
 
1. For General Damages and Special Damages
to be proven at trial; and
2. For punitive damages in the amount in
excess of $3,300,000.00.
 
(SAC Prayer for Relief.)
 
Cal. Civ.
Code § 3295(e) reads: “No claim for exemplary damages shall state an amount or
amounts.” Thus, SAC’s inclusion of the phrase “in the amount in excess of $3,300,000.00” is not drawn in conformity
with the laws of this state. 
 
Accordingly, the Motion to Strike is GRANTED
in part as to those portions of the prayer identified as: “….AS TO THE THIRD,
SEVENTH, TENTH, ELEVENTH, TWELFTH, AND FOURTEENTH CAUSES OF ACTION….2. For
punitive damages in the amount in excess of $3,300,000.00,” and DENIED as to
the remaining requests.
 
-----
 
      I.         
Leave to Amend
 
Leave to amend
must be allowed where there is a reasonable possibility of successful
amendment. (Goodman v. Kennedy¿(1976), 18 Cal.3d 335, 348.) While under
California law leave to amend is liberally granted, “leave to amend should not
be granted where, in all probability, amendment would be futile.” (Vaillette
v. Fireman's Fund Ins. Co. (1993), 18 Cal. App. 4th 680, 685).¿ “A trial
court does not abuse its discretion when it sustains a demurrer without¿leave
to amend¿if either (a) the facts and the nature of the claims are clear and no
liability exists, or (b) it is probable from the nature of the defects and
previous unsuccessful attempts to plead that the plaintiff cannot state a
claim.” (Cantu v. Resolution Trust Corp.¿(1992)¿4 Cal.App.4th 857,
889.)¿¿¿¿ 
¿ 
Here, the claims are such that:¿ 
 
·       
The
deficiencies in the First Cause of Action (Breach of Contract) cannot be
amended as there was no contract between Plaintiff and Defendants Age, ACE, and
Tiger 11. Likewise, the deficiencies in the Tenth Cause of Action (Breach of
Good Faith and Fair Dealing), which requires a contract between the parties,
cannot be rectified as no contract exists between Plaintiff and Age, ACE, and
Tiger 11.
·       
The
deficiencies related to the Motion to Strike stem from the use of an amount in
the Prayer, though Cal. Civ. Code § 3295(e) reads: “No claim for
exemplary damages shall state an amount or amounts.” Thus, SAC’s inclusion of
the phrase “in the amount in excess of
$3,300,000.00” is not drawn in conformity with the laws of this state. 
 
Accordingly, leave to amend will not rectify
these deficiencies.
 
The Court notes that it appears that
Plaintiff seeks to amend the Six Cause of Action (Fraud- Misrepresentation) in
order to provide direct liability against Defendants Age, ACE, and Tiger 11.
The Court allows this. 
 
 
Conclusion
 
Defendants Cedric Age, ACE
Reality, and Tiger 11’s Demurrer is OVERRULED as to uncertainty, the Fourth
Cause of Action (Conversion against all defendants), the Fifth Cause of Action
(Fraud – Concealment against all defendants), the Sixth Cause of Action (Fraud-
Misrepresentation against all defendants), the Seventh Cause of Action
(Negligence against all defendants), the Eighth Cause of Action (Negligent
Infliction of Emotional Distress against all defendants), the Ninth Cause of
Action (Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress against all defendants),
the Eleventh Cause of Action (Quiet Title against Tiger 11), the Twelfth Cause
of Action (Unjust Enrichment against all defendants), Thirteenth Cause of
Action (Violation of Bus. & Prof. Code §§ 17200, et seq. against all
defendants), and the Fourteenth Cause of Action (Declaratory Relief against all
defendants).
 
Defendants Cedric Age, ACE
Reality, and Tiger 11’s Demurrer is SUSTAINED as to the First Cause of Action
(Breach of Contract against Defendants Cedric Age, Ace Realty, and Federal
Escrow), Third Cause of Action (Breach of Fiduciary Duties against all
defendants), and Tenth Cause of Action (Breach of Good Faith and Fair Dealing).

 
Defendants Cedric Age, ACE
Reality, and Tiger 11’s Motion to Strike is GRANTED in part as to those portions of the prayer identified as: “….AS
TO THE THIRD, SEVENTH, TENTH, ELEVENTH, TWELFTH, AND FOURTEENTH CAUSES OF
ACTION….2. For punitive damages in the amount in excess of $3,300,000.00,” and
DENIED as to the remaining requests. 
 
Leave to amend is GRANTED as to
the Sixth Cause of Action (Fraud- Misrepresentation against all defendants).


