 Case Number:  23STCV20864    Hearing Date:   April 3, 2024    Dept:  34                                     
SUBJECT:        Demurrer to the Verified Amended
Cross-Complaint
 
Moving Party: Law
Offices of William I. Rothbard and The Altman Law Group
Resp. Party:    None
 
        
        The SACC is STRICKEN. The operative
pleadings are the FAC and the FACC. 
 
The Demurrer to the FACC is OVERRULED. 
 
BACKGROUND:
 
On August 30, 2023, Law Offices of William I Rothbard (“Rothbard”)
and The Altman Law Group (“Altman”) filed their Complaint against
Intermarketing Media, LLC, Jason Krieck, David Klein, and David A. Klein P.C.
on causes of action arising from a fee dispute. Rothbard and Altman are both
sole proprietorships, and they are litigating this matter in propria persona.

 
On September 19, 2023, Rothbard and Altman filed their
Verified First Amended Complaint (FAC). 
 
On December 26, 2023, Intermarketing Media, LLC, Jason
Krieck, David Klein, and David A. Klein P.C. filed their Verified Answer. 
 
On January 5, 2024, Intermarketing Media, LLC, Jason
Krieck, David Klein, and David A. Klein P.C. filed: (1) Amended Verified
Answer; and (2) Verified Cross-Complaint against Rothbard and Altman.
 
On February 9, 2024, Intermarketing Media, LLC, Jason
Krieck, David Klein, and David A. Klein P.C. filed their Amended Verified
Cross-Complaint (“FACC”). 
 
On February 29, 2024, Rothbard and Altman filed their
Demurrer to the FACC. In support of their Demurrer, Rothbard and Altman concurrently
filed: (1) Request for Judicial Notice; and (2) Judicial Council Form CIV-140,
Declaration of Demurring Party Regarding Meet and Confer. 
 
On March 20, 2024, Intermarketing Media, LLC, Jason
Krieck, David Klein, and David A. Klein P.C. filed their Second Amended
Verified Cross-Complaint (“SACC”). 
 
On March 26, 2024, Rothbard and Altman filed their Reply
in support of their Demurrer to the FACC. 
 
No opposition or other response to the Demurrer to the
FACC has been filed. 
 

ANALYSIS:
 
I.         
Preliminary
Issue
 
On March 20, 2024,
Intermarketing Media, LLC, Jason Krieck, David Klein, and David A. Klein P.C.
filed their Second Amended Verified Cross-Complaint (“SACC”). 
 
As correctly noted by Rothbard and Altman, the SACC was filed without
leave of Court, even though the pleading had already been amended once. 
 
The Courts of Appeal have explicitly disallowed this practice because it
violates Code of Civil Procedure section 472, subdivision (a). (Hedwall v.
PCMV, LLC (2018) 22 Cal.App.5th 564, 575 [“By parity of reasoning, under
section 472, the right to amend a cross-complaint as a matter of right is
similarly limited to the original version of the cross-complaint.”]; Mac v.
Minassian (2022) 76 Cal.App.5th 510, 517 [“Otherwise, leave of court is
required under Code of Civil Procedure section 473.”].)
 
The Court has the power to strike an improperly filed cross-complaint.
(Hedwall, supra, at p. 579.)
 
The Court STRIKES the SACC. The operative pleadings are therefore the
FAC and the FACC. 
 
The Court will now consider the Demurrer to the FACC. 
 
II.      
Request
for Judicial Notice
 
Rothbard and Altman request that the Court take judicial notice of
various items filed in a separate case that is or was before the United States
District Court for the Central District of California. All of these items are
filings made by the Parties; none of these items are rulings by the Court or
final dispositions of the matters encompassed. 
 
The Court DENIES as irrelevant judicial notice to
these items. “Although a court may judicially notice a variety of matters
(Evid. Code, § 450 et seq.), only relevant material may be noticed.” (Am.
Cemwood Corp. v. Am. Home Assurance Co. (2001) 87 Cal.App.4th 431, 441, fn.
7, quotation omitted, italics in original.)
 
III.    
Legal
Standard
 
“The party
against whom a complaint or cross-complaint has been filed may object, by
demurrer or answer as provided in Section 430.30, to the pleading on any one or
more of” various grounds listed in statute. (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10.)
 
“When any ground
for objection to a complaint, cross-complaint, or answer appears on the face
thereof, or from any matter of which the court is required to or may take
judicial notice, the objection on that ground may be taken by a demurrer to the
pleading.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.30, subd. (a).)
 
“A demurrer to a
complaint or cross-complaint may be taken to the whole complaint or
cross-complaint or to any of the causes of action stated therein.” (Code Civ.
Proc., § 430.50, subd. (a).)
 
“In reviewing the sufficiency
of a complaint against a general demurrer, we are guided by long-settled rules.
We treat the demurrer as admitting all material facts properly pleaded, but not
contentions, deductions or conclusions of fact or law. We also consider matters which may be judicially
noticed. Further, we give the complaint a reasonable interpretation,
reading it as a whole and its parts in their context.” (Blank v. Kirwan (1985)
39 Cal.3d 311, 318, citations and internal quotation marks omitted.)
 
IV.     
Discussion
 
Rothbard and Altman demur to all three causes of action in the FACC. 
 
A. 
    Breach
of Contract
 
1. 
    Legal
Standard
 
To state a cause of action for breach of
contract, a plaintiff must be able to establish “(1) the existence of the
contract, (2) plaintiff’s performance or excuse for nonperformance, (3)
defendant’s breach, and (4) the resulting damages to the plaintiff.” (Oasis
W. Realty, LLC v. Goldman (2011) 51 Cal.4th 811, 821.)
 
If a breach of contract claim “is based on
alleged breach of a written contract, the terms must be set out verbatim in the
body of the complaint or a copy of the written agreement must be attached and
incorporated by reference.” (Harris v. Rudin, Richman & Appel (1999)
74 Cal.App.4th 299, 307.) 
 
“In an action based on a written contract, a
plaintiff may plead the legal effect of the contract rather than its precise
language.” (Constr. Protection Servs., Inc. v. TIG Specialty Ins. Co.
(2002) 29 Cal.4th 189, 198–199.)
 
2. 
    Discussion
 
Rothbard and Altman demur to the first cause of action for breach of
contract, arguing that the FACC does not sufficiently plead contracts, their
breach, or damage therefrom. (Demurrer, p. 8:10–13.)
 
The Court disagrees with this argument. 
 
Among other things, Intermarketing Media, LLC, Jason Krieck, David
Klein, and David A. Klein P.C. allege: (1) that the Parties entered into
written feed agreements; (2) that the contracts included duties and obligations
to perform legal services with the requisite degree of care, skill, and
diligence; (3) that Rothbard and Altman did not exercise the requisite degree
of care, skill, and diligence; (4) that these were breaches of the fee
agreements; and (5) that Intermarketing Media, LLC, Jason Krieck, David Klein,
and David A. Klein P.C. have suffered damages from these breaches. (FACC, ¶¶
27–31.)
 
For the purposes of a demurrer, the Court must assume the truth of the
allegations. These allegations are sufficient for a cause of action of breach
of contract to withstand demur. 
 
The Court OVERRULES the Demurrer to the first cause of action for
breach of contract. 
 
B. 
    Fraud
and Misrepresentation
 
1. 
    Legal
Standard
 
“The elements of fraud are (a) a
misrepresentation (false representation, concealment, or nondisclosure); (b)
scienter or knowledge of its falsity; (c) intent to induce reliance; (d)
justifiable reliance; and (e) resulting damage.” (Hinesley v. Oakshade Town
Ctr. (2005) 135 Cal.App.4th 289, 294.)
 
The facts constituting the alleged fraud must
be alleged factually and specifically as to every element of fraud, as the
policy of “liberal construction” of the pleadings will not ordinarily be
invoked. (Lazar v. Super. Ct. (1996) 12 Cal.4th 631, 645.)
 
To properly allege fraud against a
corporation, the plaintiff must plead the names of the persons allegedly making
the false representations, their authority to speak, to whom they spoke, what
they said or wrote, and when it was said or written. (Tarmann v. State Farm
Mut. Auto. Ins. Co. (1991) 2 Cal.App.4th 153, 157.)
 
2. 
    Discussion
 
Rothbard and Altman demur to the second cause of action for fraud and
misrepresentation, arguing that the pleading does not meet the heightened
pleading standard for fraud. (Demurrer, p. 13:21–22.)
 
The Court disagrees with this argument. 
 
Among other things, Intermarketing Media, LLC, Jason Krieck, David
Klein, and David A. Klein P.C. allege: (1) that Rothbard made representations
to Jason Krieck and David Klein that the estimated cost would be between
$50,000.00 and $100,000.00; (2) that Rothbard and Altman’s final billing
exceeded $800,000.00, and the case had not completed discovery; (3) that
Rothbard knew or should have known that the representation was unreasonable and
false; (4) that Rothbard also made false representations about use of Altman’s
legal services, which Rothbard knew to be false when made; (5) that Rothbard’s
representations were deliberately designed to induce Intermarketing Media, LLC,
Jason Krieck, David Klein, and David A. Klein P.C. to retain Rothbard and
Altman; (6) that these representations did in fact induce the reliance; (7)
that the reliance was reasonable; and (8) that damages ensued. (FACC, ¶¶ 33–39,
42–45.)
 
These allegations are sufficient to meet the heighted pleading standard
for a cause of action for fraud. 
 
The Court OVERRULES the Demurrer to the second cause of action for
fraud. 
 
C. 
    Breach
of Fiduciary Duty
 
1. 
    Legal
Standard
 
“The elements of a cause of action
for breach of fiduciary duty are the existence of a fiduciary relationship, its
breach, and damage proximately caused by that breach.” (City of Atascadero
v. Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner, & Smith, Inc. (1998) 68 Cal.App.4th
445, 483.)
 
“There are¿two kinds¿of fiduciary
duties — those imposed by law and those undertaken by agreement.” (Gab Bus. Servs.
v. Lindsey & Newsom Claim Servs. (2000) 83 Cal.App.4th 409, 416,
emphasis omitted, overruled in part on other grounds by Reeves v. Hanlon
(2004) 33 Cal.4th 1140, 1154.)
 
“Fiduciary duties are imposed by law in certain technical, legal relationships such
as those between partners or joint venturers, husbands and wives, guardians and
wards, trustees and beneficiaries, principals and agents, and attorneys and
clients.” (Gab Bus. Servs., supra, at p. 416, citations
omitted.)
 
“A fiduciary duty is undertaken by
agreement when one person enters into a confidential relationship with another.” (Gab Bus. Servs., supra,
at p. 417.)
 
2. 
    Discussion
 
Rothbard and Altman demur to the third cause of action for breach of
fiduciary duty, arguing that the pleading does not allege breach of duty of
loyalty or confidentiality. (Demurrer, p. 15:9–12.)
 
The Court disagrees with this argument. 
 
        Lawyers owe many duties to their
clients. One of these is a fiduciary duty; there are also many other duties
that attorneys owe to their clients.
 
        Among other things, Intermarketing
Media, LLC, Jason Krieck, David Klein, and David A. Klein P.C. allege: (1) that
Rothbard and Altman were retained as lawyers by Intermarketing Media, LLC,
Jason Krieck, David Klein, and David A. Klein P.C.; (2) that Rothbard and
Altman violated multiple duties (including their fiduciary duty, their duty of
loyalty, and their duty of candor and truthfulness) that they owed to
Intermarketing Media, LLC, Jason Krieck, David Klein, and David A. Klein P.C.;
and (3) that these violations harmed Intermarketing Media, LLC, Jason Krieck,
David Klein, and David A. Klein P.C. (FACC, ¶¶ 48–52.)
 
        These allegations sufficient plead a
cause of action for breach of fiduciary duty. 
 
        The Court OVERRULES the Demurrer to the
third cause of action for breach of fiduciary duty.
 
V.        
Conclusion

 
        The SACC is STRICKEN. The operative
pleadings are the FAC and the FACC. 
 
The Demurrer to the FACC is OVERRULED.