 Case Number:  BC490644    Hearing Date:   April 3, 2024    Dept:  34 SUBJECT:        Motion to Quash or Modify Deposition  Subpoena for Production of Business Records to the Coronado Shores Company,  Inc.   Moving Party: Judgment Debtor  Paris Rashad Benson Resp. Party:    Judgment Creditor Matthew Loguidice         The  Motion to Quash is DENIED.            Attorney’s  fees are AWARDED in favor of Judgment Creditor and against Judgment Debtor in  the amount of $1,500.00.   BACKGROUND:   On August  22, 2012, Plaintiff Matthew Loguidice filed his Complaint against Defendant  Paris Rashad Benson on causes of action regarding business transactions the  Parties were engaged in.    On  October 30, 2012, Plaintiff filed his First Amended Complaint.    On  November 2, 2020, the Court entered Judgment for Plaintiff (now “Judgment  Creditor”) and against Defendants Paris Rashad Benson (a.k.a. Paris Benson),  The Alfree Group, Inc., The Alfree Group, and The Altree Investments, LLC (now  “Judgment Debtors”), jointly and severally, in the total amount of $374,985.47.   Post-judgment  enforcement hearings have been ongoing since 2023.    On  February 6, 2024, Judgment Debtor filed his Motion to Quash or Modify  Deposition Subpoena for Production of Business Records to The Coronado Shores  Company, Inc. (“Motion to Quash”). In support of his Motion to Quash, Judgment  Debtor concurrently filed: (1) Declaration of Jordan Matthews; and (2) Proposed  Order.    On  March 20, 2024, Judgment Creditor filed his Opposition to the Motion to Quash.    On  March 26, 2024, Judgment Debtor filed his Reply in support of his Motion to  Quash. Judgment Debtor concurrently filed: (1) Declaration of Paris Benson; and  (2) Declaration of Jordan Matthews.    ANALYSIS:   I.           Legal Standard    “If a subpoena requires  the attendance of a witness or the production of books, documents,  electronically stored information, or other things before a court, or at the  trial of an issue therein, or at the taking of a deposition, the court, upon  motion reasonably made by any person described in subdivision (b), or upon the  court’s own motion after giving counsel notice and an opportunity to be heard,  may make an order quashing the subpoena entirely, modifying it, or directing  compliance with it upon those terms or conditions as the court shall declare,  including protective orders. In addition, the court may make any other order as  may be appropriate to protect the person from unreasonable or oppressive  demands, including unreasonable violations of the right of privacy of the  person.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 1987.1, subd. (a).)   “Before,  during, or after a deposition, any party, any deponent, or any other affected  natural person or organization may promptly move for a protective order. The  motion shall be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration under Section  2016.040.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.420, subd. (a).)   “The  court, for good cause shown, may make any order that justice requires to  protect any party, deponent, or other natural person or organization from unwarranted  annoyance, embarrassment, or oppression, or undue burden and expense.” (Code  Civ. Proc., §§ 2025.420, subd. (b).)   Courts  have considerable discretion in granting and crafting protective orders. (Raymond Handling Concepts Corp. v. Super.  Ct. (1995) 39 Cal.App.4th 584, 588.)   II.       Discussion   A.       The  Subpoenas at Issue   On January 12, 2024,  Judgment Creditor served Judicial Council Form SUBP-010, Deposition Subpoena  for Production of Business Records (“Deposition Subpoena”) on The Coronado  Shores Company, Inc. (Decl. Matthews, Exh. A [actual page 8 of 38].)   The records requested  are:   “Any  and all   ·       “Copies of checks/rental payments made for or on behalf of  Paris Benson related to the leased property at 6408 La Jolla Scenic Dr. S. La  Jolla, CA 92037 from January 1, 2023 to present.   ·       “Copies of any communications between The Coronado Shores  Co., Inc. and Paris Benson from January 1, 2023 to present.   ·       “Copies of any communications between The Coronado Shores  Co., Inc. and Benson Kindness, LLC from January 1, 2023 to present.   ·       “Copies of any communications related to the leased property  at 6408 La Scenic Dr. S. La Jolla, CA 92037 from January 1, 2023 to present.   ·       “Copy of the current lease/rental agreement for the leased  property.”   (Decl. Matthews, Exh. A, Attachment 3 [actual page  9 of 38].)   B.       The  Parties’ Arguments                  Judgment  Debtor moves the Court to quash or otherwise modify the Deposition Subpoena.  (Motion to Quash, p. 7:5–6.)           Judgment  Debtor argues: (1) that Judgment Creditor seeks documents that are entirely  irrelevant to this matter; (2) that Judgment Creditor seeks information that  violates Judgment Debtor’s and any third party’s right to privacy; (3) that the  Deposition Subpoena is overbroad; and (4) that Judgment Debtor is entitled to  monetary sanctions for abuse of the discovery process. (Motion to Quash, pp.  5:9, 6:5–6, 6:20, 6:22.)           Judgment  Creditor disagrees, arguing: (1) that the documents are relevant to this  matter; (2) that the Deposition Subpoena is not overbroad or violative of  privacy; and (3) that sanctions should actually be awarded in favor of Judgment  Creditor. (Opposition, pp. 3:17, 4:3, 5:22–28.)           Judgment  Debtor reiterates his arguments in his Reply.      C.       Discussion   1.       Relevancy           The  documents requested are relevant. Specifically, the lease agreement might show  that Judgment Debtor has a contract to receive income; the checks/rental  payments might show that the Judgment Debtor is in fact receiving income; and  the communications requested might show that Judgment Debtor has had  discussions about these potential flows of income.    2.       Narrowness           The  Deposition Subpoena is not overbroad. The records requested are  only for a lease agreement, specific rental payments, and communications with a  corporate entity. The Deposition Subpoena does not request bank records or  other, more sensitive information. Further, the Deposition Subpoena limits this  request to January 1, 2023, which is an appropriate scope of approximately  fourteen months of records.    3.       Privacy   a.      Legal Standard   The California Constitution includes the inalienable  right to privacy. (Cal. Const., Art. I, § 1.)   “The party asserting a privacy right must establish a legally  protected privacy interest, an objectively reasonable expectation of privacy in  the given circumstances, and a threatened intrusion that is serious. The party  seeking information may raise in response whatever legitimate and important  countervailing interests disclosure serves, while the party seeking protection may identify  feasible alternative that serve the same interests or protective measures that  would diminish the loss of privacy. A court must then balance these competing  considerations.” (Williams v. Super. Ct. (2017) 3 Cal.5th 531, 552,  citing Hill v. Nat’l Collegiate Athletic Ass’n (1994) 7 Cal.4th 1, 35.)   The balancing test outlined in Hill applies whenever lesser  privacy interests are at stake. (Williams, supra, at p.  556.) The Court only applies the higher “compelling interest” standard to  justify “an obvious invasion of an interest fundamental to personal autonomy.”  (Ibid.) For example, a party must meet the compelling interest  standard to discover an opposing party’s medical information. (Davis v.  Super. Ct. (1992) 7 Cal.App.4th 1008, 1015, 1020.)    b.     Discussion   The  records requested require the Court to invoke a balancing test (and not the  compelling interest test) because these records do not involve an obvious  invasion of an interest fundamental to personal autonomy. Put differently, the  records requested are business records related to rental transactions, not  personal records related to personal autonomy.    On  the one side is Judgment Debtor and The Coronado Shores Company, Inc.’s right  to privacy in business records. On the other side is Judgment Creditor’s right to obtain  information necessary to satisfy a judgment.    Balancing  these interests, the Court determines that Judgment Creditor should be able to  obtain these records. The limited nature and scope of the request further tilts  the balance in favor of Judgment Creditor.            The Court DENIES the Motion to Quash.            D.     Sanctions   1.       Legal  Standard   “Except as specified in subdivision  (c), in making an order pursuant to motion made under subdivision (c) of  Section 1987 or under Section 1987.1, the court may in its discretion award the  amount of the reasonable expenses incurred in making or opposing the motion,  including reasonable attorney’s fees, if the court finds the motion was made or  opposed in bad faith or without substantial justification or that one or more  of the requirements of the subpoena was oppressive.” (Code Civ. Proc., §¿1987.2, subd. (a).)   2.       Discussion           Judgment  Debtor requests $4,500.00 in fees. (Motion to Quash, p. 7:1–2.) Because the  Motion to Quash is denied, fees are not appropriate in favor of Judgment  Debtor.            Judgment  Creditor requests $1,500.00 in fees. (Opposition, p. 6:2–5.) Judgment Creditor  prevailed in opposing the Motion to Quash, and the Court has not been provided  with evidence that would indicate there was substantial justification for the  Motion to Quash. (Code Civ. Proc., § 1987.2, subd. (a).) Thus, fees are  appropriate here in favor of Judgment Creditor.    It is not  uncommon for courts to compare opposing counsel’s fees to help determine  whether the moving party’s fees are reasonable. That is because a “comparative  analysis of each side’s respective litigation costs may be a useful check on  the reasonableness of any fee request.”¿¿(Mountjoy v. Bank of Am., N.A.¿(2016)  245 Cal.App.4th 266, 273, 281, quoting Donahue v. Donahue¿(2010) 182  Cal.App.4th 259, 272.)¿   “[T]here is  one particularly good indicator of how much time is necessary [for the purpose  of determining reasonableness of attorneys’ fees] . . . and that is how much  time the other side’s lawyers spent. . . . [S]uch a comparison is a useful  guide in evaluating the appropriateness of time claimed. If the time claimed by  the prevailing party is of a substantially greater magnitude than what the  other side spent, that often indicates that too much time is claimed.  Litigation has something of the tennis game, something of war, to it; if one  side hits the ball, or shoots heavy artillery, the other side necessarily  spends time hitting the ball or shooting heavy artillery back.” (Democratic  Party of Washington State v. Reed (9th¿Cir. 2004) 388 F.3d 1281, 1287.)   Here,  Judgment Debtor requested $4,500.00 in attorney’s fees and Judgment Creditor  requested $1,500.00 in attorney’s fees. Had Judgement Creditor requested higher  fees, the Court might have granted them.   However, given that Judgment Debtor seems to think that $4,500 in attorney's  fees is appropriate here, it is fair to assume that Judgment Debtor would agree  that $1,500 is also appropriate.            The  Court AWARDS attorney’s fees in favor of Judgment Creditor and against Judgment  Debtor in the amount of $1,500.00.   III.     Conclusion            The Motion to Quash is DENIED.            Attorney’s  fees are AWARDED in favor of Judgment Creditor and against Judgment Debtor in  the amount of $1,500.00.  