 Case Number:  23SMCV04840    Hearing Date:   June 12, 2024    Dept:  N TENTATIVE RULINGDefendants Ezequial D. Gherscovici, individually and as Trustee, and Ivy A. Brooks-Gherscovici, individually and as Trustee’s Motion to Strike Request for Attorney Fees Based Upon CC&Rs Within Plaintiff’s First Amended Complaint is GRANTED with thirty (30) days leave to amend as to Plaintiff’s request for attorney fees in paragraph 32.Plaintiff Ocean Sunrise LLC may amend its complaint only as authorized by the Court’s order and may not amend the complaint to add a new party or cause of action without having obtained permission to do so. (Harris v. Wachovia Mortgage, FSB (2010) 185 Cal.App.4th 1018, 1023.)Defendants Ezequial D. Gherscovici, individually and as Trustee, and Ivy A. Brooks-Gherscovici, individually and as Trustee to give notice. REASONINGRequest for Judicial NoticePlaintiff Ocean Sunrise LLC (“Plaintiff”) requests judicial notice of all exhibits attached to Plaintiff’s opposition. Plaintiff has not submitted any exhibits attached to either Plaintiff’s opposition or Plaintiff’s request for judicial notice, and no declaration of David Y. Nakatsu was provided with any exhibits. Thus, Plaintiff’s request for judicial notice is DENIED. AnalysisDefendants Ezequial D. Gherscovici, individually and as Trustee, and Ivy A. Brooks-Gherscovici, individually and as Trustee (“Defendants”) move the Court for an order striking Plaintiff Ocean Sunrise LLC (“Plaintiff”)’s request for attorney fees in paragraph 32 of Plaintiff’s First Amended Complaint (“FAC”) on the ground that the covenants, conditions, and restrictions (“CC&Rs”) at issue in this action do not apply to Plaintiff as it does not own property within the tract covered by the CC&Rs. The Court notes that it has not considered Plaintiff’s sur-reply, as this document is not authorized by statute, and Plaintiff did not seek leave of court to file a sur-reply.The court may, upon motion, or at any time in its discretion, and upon terms it deems proper, strike any irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted in any pleading. (Code Civ. Proc., § 436, subd. (a).) The court may also strike all or any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of this state, a court rule, or an order of the court. (Code Civ. Proc., § 436, subd. (b).) The grounds for a motion to strike are that the pleading has irrelevant, false, or improper matter, or has not been drawn or filed in conformity with laws. (Code Civ. Proc., § 436.) The grounds for moving to strike must appear on the face of the pleading or by way of judicial notice. (Code Civ. Proc., § 437.)Leave to amend must be allowed where there is a reasonable possibility of successful amendment. (See Goodman v. Kennedy (1976) 18 Cal.3d 335, 349 [court shall not “sustain a demurrer without leave to amend if there is any reasonable possibility that the defect can be cured by amendment”]; Kong v. City of Hawaiian Gardens Redevelopment Agency (2002) 108 Cal.App.4th 1028, 1037 [“A demurrer should not be sustained without leave to amend if the complaint, liberally construed, can state a cause of action under any theory or if there is a reasonable possibility the defect can be cured by amendment.”]; Vaccaro v. Kaiman (1998) 63 Cal.App.4th 761, 768 [“When the defect which justifies striking a complaint is capable of cure, the court should allow leave to amend.”].) The burden is on the complainant to show the Court that a pleading can be amended successfully. (Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311, 318.)An award of attorney’s fees is proper when authorized by contract, statute, or law. (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 1032, subd. (b), 1033.5, subd. (a)(10).) In paragraph 32, Plaintiff alleges it “is entitled to recover attorney fees and costs incurred in enforcing these terms” (FAC ¶ 32), referring to the CC&Rs governing its property located at APN 4453-0003-024. (FAC ¶¶ 23, 26.) Plaintiff alleges it is a party to the CC&Rs or an intended third-party beneficiary of the CC&Rs, and article 9.02 provides that any party who prevails to enforce the terms of the CC&Rs or to determine the rights or duties or any person thereunder will recover all legal fees and costs. (FAC ¶¶ 30-31.) Defendants argue that Plaintiff has not provided the complete language of article 9.02, which reads, in relevant part, as follows:Proceedings to restrain violation of these restrictions may be brought by Declarant, the Architectural Committee (or its members) or by any Owner. In the event of proceedings brought by any party or parties to enforce or restrain violation of any of these restrictions, the prevailing party in such proceedings may recover a reasonable attorney’s fee to be fixed by the court, in addition to court costs.(FAC ¶ 26, Ex. 2.)Plaintiff argues that the next line in article 9.02 stating that “[i]n the event of proceedings brought by any party or parties to enforce or restrain violation of any of these restrictions, the prevailing party in such proceedings may recover a reasonable attorney’s fee to be fixed by the court, in addition to court costs,” compels a conclusion that any party may bring an action to enforce or restrain the CC&Rs, and article 9.04 also references “the failure of Declarant, or the Architectural Committee, and/or of any Owner or of any other person entitled to enforce any of these restrictions.” (FAC ¶ 26, Ex. 2.) Put simply, the Court does not read the CC&Rs in the way that Plaintiff argues. The CC&Rs are a contract, and the language of the contract is clear that only Declarant, identified in the CC&Rs as Kendall-Johnson Company, the Architectural Committee (or its members), or any Owner may bring an action and recover attorney fees. Reference to “any party” does not mean that anyone who wants to may bring an action. The logical reading is that “any party” refers to any party who is entitled to bring an action, and article 9.02 states who is entitled to bring an action. Thus, Plaintiff must be an owner within Tract 30203 to bring an action and recover attorney fees under the CC&Rs, and Plaintiff does not allege anywhere in the FAC that its property is within Tract 30203. (See FAC ¶ 22 [Plaintiff alleges the CC&Rs apply to each lot owner defendant].) Whether Plaintiff is a third-party beneficiary of the CC&Rs or has a basis to sue Defendants for their conduct is of no consequence here where the CC&Rs define who is entitled to attorney fees, and Plaintiff is not included therein.Plaintiff argues it may also recover attorney fees and costs under statute. Plaintiff alleges elsewhere in the FAC that it is entitled to recover attorney fees and costs because Defendants’ conduct constitutes a public nuisance. (FAC ¶ 47.) Code of Civil Procedure section 1021.5 allows the Court to “award attorneys’ fees to a successful party against one or more opposing parties in any action which has resulted in the enforcement of an important right affecting the public interest if: (a) a significant benefit, whether pecuniary or nonpecuniary, has been conferred on the general public or a large class of persons, (b) the necessity and financial burden of private enforcement . . . [is] such as to make the award appropriate, and (c) such fees should not in the interest of justice be paid out of the recovery, if any.” This statutory provision codifies what is known as the private attorney general doctrine. (Vasquez v. State of California (2008) 45 Cal.4th 243, 250.) “The doctrine rests on the recognition that privately initiated lawsuits, while often essential to effectuate important public policies, will as a practical matter frequently be infeasible without some mechanism authorizing courts to award fees.” (Ibid.) The purpose of the doctrine “is to encourage suits enforcing important public policies by providing substantial attorney fees to successful litigants in such cases.” (Graham v. DaimlerChrysler Corp. (2004) 34 Cal.4th 553, 565.)“An award on the ‘private attorney general’ theory is appropriate when the cost of the claimant’s legal victory transcends his personal interest, that is, when the necessity for pursuing the lawsuit placed a burden on the plaintiff out of proportion to his individual stake in the matter.” (County of Inyo v. City of Los Angeles (1978) 78 Cal.App.3d 82, 89.) In other words, “attorneys[’] fees are awarded when a significant public benefit is conferred through litigation pursued by one whose personal stake is insufficient to otherwise encourage the action.” (Beach Colony II v. California Coastal Commission (1985) 166 Cal.App.3d 106, 114.)Whether Defendants’ conduct warrants attorney fees under Code of Civil Procedure section 1021.5 is a question of fact. Plaintiff has alleged that it has sustained slide and other damages due to Defendants’ conduct (FAC ¶¶ 46, 48), which may provide a basis for attorney fees according to proof. Thus, Plaintiff appears to have an alternative basis for attorney fees, and Defendants have not moved to strike this allegation; rather, Defendants argue only that attorney fees under the CC&Rs is improper, and the Court agrees for the reasons stated above. For this reason, Defendants Ezequial D. Gherscovici, individually and as Trustee, and Ivy A. Brooks-Gherscovici, individually and as Trustee’s Motion to Strike Request for Attorney Fees Based Upon CC&Rs Within Plaintiff’s First Amended Complaint is GRANTED with thirty (30) days leave to amend as to Plaintiff’s request for attorney fees in paragraph 32. Plaintiff Ocean Sunrise LLC may amend its complaint only as authorized by the Court’s order and may not amend the complaint to add a new party or cause of action without having obtained permission to do so. (Harris v. Wachovia Mortgage, FSB (2010) 185 Cal.App.4th 1018, 1023.)