 Case Number:  24PSCV00568    Hearing Date:   June 11, 2024    Dept:  6 CASE  NAME:  Scott  DeSmet, Conservator of the Person and Estate of Gregory L.  DeSmet Sr and  Trustee of the Gregory L. DeSmet Trust v. Vicki Brown aka Vicki Brown-Desmet,  et al.  Demurrer  to Plaintiff’s Complaint  TENTATIVE  RULING  The Court SUSTAINS the demurrer to the First, Second, and Third  Causes of Action of the complaint with 20 days’ leave to amend.  The Court DENIES the motion to strike as moot.               Moving Parties are ordered to give  notice of the Court’s ruling within five calendar days of this order.  BACKGROUND  This is a business dispute. On February 23, 2024, plaintiff Scott  DeSmet, Conservator of the Person and Estate of Gregory L. DeSmet Sr and Trustee  of the Gregory L. DeSmet Trust (Plaintiff) filed this action against defendants  Vicki Brown aka Vicki Brown-DeSmet (Vicki), Victoria Marie Brown aka Victoria  Marie Brown-DeSmet[1],  Gregory L. DeSmet Jr. (Greg Jr.), Al Snow (Snow), DPI Labs, Inc. (DPI Labs),  DeSmet Property Investments, LLC (DeSmet Property), Sowing Seeds for Life  (Sowing Seeds), Hillsborough Accounting Services (collectively, Defendants),  and Does 1 through 100, alleging causes of action for: (1) fraud and conspiracy  to commit fraud; (2) breach of fiduciary duty; and (3) financial elder abuse  and conspiracy to commit financial elder abuse.  On April 29, 2024, Vicki, DPI Labs, DeSmet Property, Greg Jr., and  Sowing Seeds (collectively, Moving Parties) demurred to and moved to strike the  complaint.[2] On May 29, 2024, Plaintiff opposed the motions. On June 4, 2024, Moving Parties  replied.  LEGAL  STANDARD – Demurrer              A demurrer is a pleading used to test the legal sufficiency of  other pleadings. It raises issues of law, not fact, regarding the form or  content of the opposing party's pleading (complaint, answer or  cross-complaint). (Code Civ. Proc., § 422.10; see Donabedian v.  Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994.) It is not the function  of the demurrer to challenge the truthfulness of the complaint; and for  purposes of ruling on the demurrer, all facts pleaded in the complaint are  assumed to be true. (Id.)  A  demurrer can be used only to challenge defects that appear on the face of the  pleading under attack; or from matters outside the pleading that are judicially  noticeable. (Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311, 318; Donabedian,  supra, 116 Cal.App.4th at p. 994.) No other extrinsic evidence can be  considered. (Ion Equip. Corp. v. Nelson (1980) 110 Cal.App.3d 868,  881 [error for court to consider facts asserted in memorandum supporting  demurrer]; see also Afuso v. United States Fid. & Guar. Co. (1985) 169 Cal.App.3d 859, 862, disapproved on other grounds in Moradi-Shalal  v. Fireman’s Fund Ins. Cos. (1988) 46 Cal.3d 287 [error to consider  contents of release not part of court record].)  A  demurrer can be utilized where the “face of the complaint” itself is incomplete  or discloses some defense that would bar recovery. (Guardian North Bay, Inc.  v. Superior Court (2001) 94 Cal.App.4th 963, 971-972.) The “face of  the complaint” includes material contained in attached exhibits that are  incorporated by reference into the complaint, or in a superseded complaint in the same action. (Frantz v.  Blackwell (1987) 189 Cal.App.3d 91, 94; see also Barnett v. Fireman’s  Fund Ins. Co. (2001) 90 Cal.App.4th 500, 505 [“[W]e rely on and accept as true the contents of the exhibits and treat as  surplusage the pleader’s allegations as to the legal effect of the exhibits.”])  A demurrer  can only be sustained when it disposes of an entire pleading, cause of action,  or affirmative defense. (See Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1320, subd. (a); Poizner  v. Fremont General Corp. (2007) 148 Cal.App.4th 97, 119; Kong v. City of  Hawaiian Gardens Redev. Agency (2003) 108  Cal.App.4th 1028, 1046-1047.)  PRELIMINARY  ISSUES – Demurrer              “Each ground of demurrer must be in  a separate paragraph and must state whether it applies to the entire complaint,  cross-complaint, or answer, or to specified causes of action or defenses.”  (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1320, subd. (a).) The Court notes that Moving  Parties’ notice of demurrer fails to comply with Rule 3.1320, subdivision (a),  of the California Rules of Court, and does not state each ground for demurrer  for each cause of action in a separate paragraph. (Notice of Demurrer, 2:11-13.)  The Court also notes that Moving Parties stated their grounds for  the demurrer in the notice rather than in a demurrer, which is separate from  the notice and memorandum of points and authorities. (See A. Demurrers, Cal.  Prac. Guide Civ. Pro. Before Trial Ch. 7(I)-A [“The demurring party must file  with the court, and serve on the other party, the following: • Demurrer;  • Notice of Hearing (see ¶ 7:110 ff.); • Memorandum of Points and  Authorities; [CRC 3.1112(a)] • Proof of service. [CCP § 1005(b); CRC 3.1300(c)].”  [emphasis added].)  The Court further notes that the memorandum of points and  authorities in support of the demurrer adds the ground of uncertainty in the  middle of the memorandum instead of in the demurrer. (Memorandum of Points and  Authorities, 5:16-6:5.)  The Court will still consider the demurrer, but admonishes Moving  Parties to comply with the requirements of the California Rules of Court going  forward.  DISCUSSION  Meet and Confer  Per Code of Civil Procedure section 430.41, subdivision (a),  Moving Parties were required to meet and confer in person, by telephone, or by  video conference before bringing this demurrer. (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.41,  subd. (a).) The Court finds Moving Parties’ meet-and-confer efforts  insufficient, as there is no indication that counsel for Moving Parties ever  called counsel for Plaintiff before filing the demurrer. (See Meigs Decl., ¶  2.) Nevertheless, the Court may not overrule a demurrer for failure to  adequately meet and confer. (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.41, subd. (a)(4).) The  Court will still consider the demurrer, but admonishes Moving Parties to comply  with the Code of Civil Procedure going forward.  First Cause of Action – Fraud and Conspiracy to Commit Fraud  To state a cause of action for fraud, the plaintiff  must allege facts demonstrating, “(1) a misrepresentation, (2) knowledge of  falsity, (3) intent to induce reliance, (4) actual and justifiable reliance,  and (5) resulting damage. [Citation.]” (Aton Ctr., Inc. v. United Healthcare  Ins. Co. (2023) 93 Cal.App.5th 1214, 1245.) “In California, fraud must be  pled specifically; general and conclusory allegations do not suffice.  [Citations.] ‘Thus ‘ “the policy of liberal construction of the pleadings ...  will not ordinarily be invoked to sustain a pleading defective in any material  respect.’ ‘ [Citation.] [¶] This particularity requirement necessitates  pleading facts which show how, when, where, to whom, and by what means the  representations were tendered.’ [Citation.] A plaintiff's burden in asserting a  fraud claim against a corporate employer is even greater. In such a case, the  plaintiff must ‘allege the names of the persons who made the allegedly  fraudulent representations, their authority to speak, to whom they spoke, what  they said or wrote, and when it was said or written.’ [Citation.]” (Lazar v.  Superior Ct. (1996) 12 Cal.4th 631, 645 (Lazar).) To invoke civil  conspiracy liability against multiple defendants, the plaintiff must allege  facts demonstrating, “’(1) formation and operation of the conspiracy and (2)  damage resulting to plaintiff (3) from a wrongful act done in furtherance of  the common design.’ [Citation.]” (Prakashpalan v. Engstrom,  Lipscomb & Lack (2014) 223 Cal.App.4th 1105, 1136 (Prakashpalan).)  Moving Parties demur to the First Cause of Action for  fraud and conspiracy to commit fraud on the grounds that the complaint fails to  state a cause of action. Moving Parties contend the complaint fails to allege  fraud with the requisite specificity, as there are no allegations regarding what  the alleged misrepresentations were, who made them, to whom they were made, the  means by which they were made, or when they allegedly occurred. Moving Parties  also contend the complaint fails to allege facts demonstrating a conspiracy, as  the complaint contains no allegations regarding the formation or operation of a  conspiracy. In opposition, Plaintiff contends the complaint alleges sufficient  facts for fraud and conspiracy to commit fraud.  The Court finds the complaint fails to state a cause  of action for fraud and conspiracy to commit fraud. The complaint lacks any  allegations explaining what misrepresentations were purportedly made, when they  were made, how they were made, or who made the misrepresentations and to whom  they were made. (See Compl., ¶¶ 12-16.) The complaint further fails to allege what  was said or written and when the alleged representations were said or written,  which is necessary for fraud claims against corporate defendants. (See Id.;  Lazar, supra, 12 Cal.4th at p. 645.) Instead, the complaint alleges in a  conclusory and cluttered fashion that Vicki, Greg Jr., and Snow made  misrepresentations. (See Compl., ¶¶ 12-16.) The complaint also does not  allege that Greg Jr. or Snow were authorized to make statements on behalf of DPI  Labs or DeSmet Property. (See Id., ¶¶ 4-5.) Further, the complaint fails  to allege facts showing the resulting damage to the Conservatee and the Trust. “[T]he loss of corporate profits, revenues,  or assets as a result of negligent or intentional wrongdoing by a corporation's  officers, directors, or majority shareholders results in corporate injury, for  which only the corporation may sue to recover.” (Sole Energy Co. v.  Petrominerals Corp. (2005) 128 Cal.App.4th 212, 230.)  Moreover, given  the failure to state a cause of action for fraud, the complaint also  necessarily fails to state a claim for civil conspiracy because conspiracy is  not a separate cause of action. (Prakashpalan, supra, 223 Cal.App.4th at  p. 1136 [“There is no separate tort of civil conspiracy and no action for  conspiracy to commit a tort unless the underlying tort is committed and damage  results therefrom. [Citation.]”]) The Court further construes Plaintiff’s  failure to address Moving Parties’ arguments in the opposition as a tacit  admission that Moving Parties’ arguments are meritorious. (See Sexton v.  Superior Court (1997) 58 Cal.App.4th 1403, 1410; C. Opposing the Motion—and  Rebutting the Opposition, Cal. Prac. Guide Civ. Pro. Before Trial Ch. 9(I)-C,  ¶ 9:105.10.)  Based on the foregoing, the Court SUSTAINS the demurrer to the  First Cause of Action.     Second Cause  of Action – Breach of Fiduciary Duty  To state a cause of action for breach of fiduciary  duty, the plaintiff must allege facts demonstrating, “’(1) the existence  of a fiduciary relationship, (2) its breach,  and (3) damage proximately caused  by that breach.’ [Citation.]” (O'Neal v. Stanislaus Cnty. Employees' Ret. Assn. (2017)  8 Cal.App.5th 1184, 1215.)  Moving  Parties demur to the Second Cause of Action for breach of fiduciary duty for  failure to state a cause of action and for uncertainty. Moving Parties contend  the complaint contains no allegations establishing the existence of a fiduciary  duty on behalf of any of the Defendants except for Vicki. Moving Parties  contend the complaint only makes conclusory allegations that Defendants made  misrepresentations and misappropriations of funds from DPI, and fails to allege  what the misrepresentations were, when the alleged misappropriations occurred,  or who is alleged to have taken part in the alleged misappropriation, and fails  to meet the heightened pleading requirements for fraud claims. Moving Parties  also contend Plaintiffs’ breach of fiduciary duty claim ambiguously refers to  misrepresentations without any specificity and is therefore uncertain. Moving  Parties further contend the complaint does not establish the existence of a  fiduciary duty on behalf of Greg Jr. or any entity Defendant.  In  opposition, Plaintiff contends Defendants omit the fact that the Second Cause  of Action includes a conspiracy to breach the fiduciary duty Defendants have  admitted Vicki owes to Plaintiff. Plaintiff otherwise contends the complaint  adequately alleges a cause of action for breach of fiduciary duty.  The Court  finds the Second Cause of Action is subject to demurrer for uncertainty and  also for failure to state a cause of action against Greg Jr. and Snow. First, although  not specifically mentioned in the moving papers, the Court notes that the  Second Cause of Action is actually two causes of action. (See Compl., ¶¶ 17-25.)  The complaint lists them as Count One for DPI Labs and Count Two for DeSmet  Property. (Id.) Combining two causes of action into one creates  ambiguity and renders that cause of action subject to demurrer for uncertainty.  (See Zumbrun v. University of Southern California (1972) 25 Cal.App.3d  1, 9 [trial court properly sustained demurrers for uncertainty based on two  contracted related causes of action having been improperly combined into one].)  This cause of action should be split into two separate causes of action.  Second, the complaint fails to allege facts  demonstrating that either Greg Jr. or Snow owed a fiduciary duty to DPI Labs or  DeSmet Property. For example, the complaint does not allege that Greg Jr. or  Snow were directors or officers of either entity. (Compl., ¶¶ 4-7.) Additionally,  the allegation that Snow was a CPA does not automatically impose a fiduciary  duty either. (Id., ¶ 5.) “Notably, no reported  California decision has found that the relationship between an accountant and client (without more)  creates a fiduciary obligation. [Oakland Raiders v. Nat'l Football League,  131 Cal. App. 4th 621, 632, 32 Cal. Rptr. 3d 266 (6th Dist. 2005).]” (§ 34:19.  Duty of care to clients, Cal. Civ. Prac. Torts § 34:19.)  Third, Plaintiff’s argument that Greg Jr. and Snow  can be liable for conspiracy to breach Vicki’s fiduciary duty to DPI Labs and  DeSmet Property is unpersuasive and unavailing. "A nonfiduciary cannot  conspire to breach a duty owed only by a fiduciary. 'Conspiracy is not an  independent tort; it cannot create a duty. . . . It allows tort recovery only  against a party who already owes the duty . . . based on applicable substantive  tort law principles.' " (Kidron v. Movie Acquisition Corp. (1995)  40 Cal.App.4th 1571, 1597 quoting Applied Equipment Corp. v. Litton Saudi  Arabia Ltd. (1994) 7 Cal.4th 503, 514.)  While  the complaint alleges a fiduciary duty as to Vicki, based on the foregoing  regarding combining the causes of action, the Court SUSTAINS the demurrer to  the Second Cause of Action as to Vicki with leave to amend.  For  all of the foregoing reasons, the Court SUSTAINS the demurrer to the Second  Cause of Action as to DeSmet and Snow with leave to amend.  Third Cause of Action – Financial Elder Abuse and  Conspiracy to Commit Financial Elder Abuse “Financial abuse” of an elder or dependent adult occurs when a  person or entity does any of the following: (1) Takes, secretes, appropriates, obtains, or retains real or  personal property of an elder or dependent adult for a wrongful use or with  intent to defraud, or both. (2) Assists in taking, secreting, appropriating, obtaining, or  retaining real or personal property of an elder or dependent adult for a  wrongful use or with intent to defraud, or both. (3) Takes, secretes, appropriates, obtains, or retains, or assists  in taking, secreting, appropriating, obtaining, or retaining, real or personal  property of an elder or dependent adult by undue influence, as defined in  Section 15610.70. (Welf. &  Inst. Code, § 15610.30, subd. (a).) Elder abuse claims are statutory causes of action and therefore  must be pleaded with particularity. (See Covenant Care, Inc. v. Superior  Court (2004) 32 Cal.4th 771, 790, citing Lopez v. Southern Cal. Rapid  Trans. Dist. (1985) 40 Cal.3d 780, 795.) Moving Parties demur to the Third Cause of Action for financial elder  abuse for failure to state a cause of action. Moving Parties contend the  complaint contains no allegations that Defendants appropriated any real or  personal property of Plaintiff. Moving Parties contend Plaintiff instead makes  vague and conclusory allegations that Defendants made misrepresentations and  misappropriated funds from DPI Labs, which is a corporation and is separate  from Plaintiff’s status as a shareholder of DPI Labs. In opposition, Plaintiff contends that Plaintiff has standing to  allege a cause of action for elder abuse. Plaintiff contends Vicki has reported  income to the taxing authority that was never paid to the Conservatee (as  defined in the complaint) because Vicki converted those funds for her own use  and benefit. Plaintiff contends that Snow assisted Vicki in converting the  funds that were reported as paid to Conservatee but in fact were not. Plaintiff  contends that Plaintiff is able to plead both derivative causes of action and  direct causes of action, and that Plaintiff has sufficiently pled this Third  Cause of Action for elder abuse.             The Court finds the complaint fails  to state a cause of action for financial elder abuse. The Court agrees with Moving  Parties that the complaint does not allege facts demonstrating Plaintiff was  deprived of personal property for purposes of a financial elder abuse claim.  (See Compl., ¶¶ 26-29.) The money and profits of the corporation belong to the  corporation unless it declares a dividend or liquidates. “Shareholders do not  own and have no right to receive corporate profits, except in limited  circumstances: ‘It is fundamental, of course, that the corporation has a  personality distinct from that of its shareholders, and that the latter neither  own the corporate property nor the corporate earnings.’ [Citation.]  Shareholders own stock in the corporation, from which they derive income only  upon liquidation of the corporation or the declaration of a dividend by the  corporate directors. [Citation.]” (Sole Energy Co. v. Petrominerals Corp.  (2005) 128 Cal.App.4th 212, 229.) The complaint does not allege that DPI Labs  or DeSmet Property declared a dividend or was liquidated. (See generally,  Compl.) Thus, the moneys that were allegedly misappropriated from DPI Labs or  DeSmet Property were not Plaintiff’s personal property. It is not clear from  the facts alleged in the complaint that the Third Cause of Action is based on  the alleged reporting of income to the taxing authority. (See Compl., ¶¶ 26-29.)  Nor are such allegations alleged with any specificity. (See Compl., ¶ 12(e).) The  Court also finds that the complaint lacks the specificity necessary for an  elder abuse claim for many of the same reasons set forth above under the First  Cause of Action. (See Covenant Care, Inc. v. Superior Court, supra, 32  Cal.4th at p. 790.)             Moreover, although not raised in the  parties’ respective briefs, the Court notes that the complaint does not allege the  Conservatee was an elder or dependent adult (as defined in the statute) at the  time of the alleged misconduct. The Third Cause of Action is based on the  alleged deprivation of the Conservatee’s money and assets. (Compl., ¶ 28.)              Based on the foregoing, the Court  SUSTAINS the demurrer to the Third Cause of Action with leave to amend.             Alter Ego Allegations             “A claim against a defendant, based  on the alter ego theory, is not itself a claim for substantive relief, e.g.,  breach of contract or to set aside a fraudulent conveyance, but rather,  procedural, i.e., to disregard the corporate entity as a distinct defendant and  to hold the alter ego individuals liable on the obligations of the corporation  where the corporate form is being used by the individuals to escape personal  liability, sanction a fraud, or promote injustice.” (Hennessey's  Tavern, Inc. v. Am. Air Filter Co. (1988) 204 Cal.App.3d 1351, 1359,  internal citation omitted.) The Court declines to address the parties’ arguments  regarding the alter ego allegations in the complaint, as alter ego is not a  cause of action. (Hennessey's Tavern, Inc. v. Am. Air Filter Co.  supra, 204 Cal.App.3d at p. 1359.) A  demurrer can only be sustained when it disposes of an entire pleading, cause of  action, or affirmative defense. (See Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1320, subd.  (a); Poizner v. Fremont General Corp., supra, 148 Cal.App.4th at p. 119;  Kong v. City of Hawaiian Gardens Redev. Agency, supra, 108 Cal.App.4th at p. 1046.) The  proper motion to address the alter ego allegations would have been a motion to  strike. (PH II, Inc. v. Superior Court (1995) 33 Cal.App.4th 1680,  1682-1683, internal citations omitted [“A demurrer does not lie to a portion of  a cause of action… We conclude that when a substantive defect is clear  from the face of a complaint… a defendant may attack that portion of the cause  of action by filing a motion to strike.”])  LEGAL  STANDARD – Motion to Strike              “Any party, within the time allowed to  respond to a pleading may serve and file a notice of motion to strike the whole  or any part thereof, but this time limitation shall not apply to motions  specified in subdivision (e).” (Code Civ. Proc., § 435, subd. (b)(2).)  “The court may, upon a motion made pursuant to Section 435, or at any time in  its discretion, and upon terms it deems proper: (a) Strike out any  irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted in any pleading. (b) Strike out all or any  part of any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of  this state, a court rule, or an order of the court.” (Id., § 436.)  DISCUSSION  Meet and Confer  Per Code of Civil Procedure section  435.5, subdivision (a), Moving Parties were required to meet and confer in person, by  telephone, or by video conference before bringing this motion to strike. (Code Civ. Proc., § 435.5, subd. (a).) The Court  finds Moving Parties’ meet-and-confer efforts insufficient, as there is no  indication that counsel for Moving Parties ever called counsel for Plaintiff  before filing the motion to strike. (See Meigs Decl., ¶ 2.) Nevertheless, the  Court may not deny a motion to strike for failure to adequately meet and  confer. (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.41, subd. (a)(4).) The Court will still  consider the motion to strike, but admonishes Moving Parties to comply with the  Code of Civil Procedure going forward.  Analysis  Moving Parties seek to strike allegations seeking recovery for  punitive damages and attorney’s fees. Given that the Court has sustained the  demurrer to each cause of action of the complaint with leave to amend, the  Court DENIES the motion to strike as moot.        Based on the foregoing, the Court DENIES the motion to strike as  moot.  CONCLUSION  The Court SUSTAINS the demurrer to the First, Second, and Third  Causes of Action of the complaint with 20 days’ leave to amend.  The Court DENIES the motion to strike as moot.               Moving Parties are ordered to give  notice of the Court’s ruling within five calendar days of this order.     