  Case Number:  24PSCV00137    Hearing Date:   June 11, 2024    Dept:  6 CASE
NAME:  Manuel
Fernandez, trustee of the Pena Family Revocable Trust dated November 9, 2022 v.
Shmuel Y. Mahgerefteh, et al. 
Motion
of Charles O. Agege to be Relieved as Counsel for Plaintiff 
TENTATIVE
RULING 
The Court GRANTS the motion of Charles O. Agege to be relieved as
counsel for Plaintiff and will sign the proposed order. The withdrawal will not
be effective until Counsel files a proof of service of the signed order upon
Plaintiff. 
Counsel is ordered to give notice of this ruling and file proof of
service of same within five calendar days. 
BACKGROUND 
This is a real property loan dispute. On January 12, 2024,
plaintiff Manuel Fernandez, trustee of the Pena Family Revocable Trust dated
November 9, 2022 (Plaintiff) filed this action against defendants Shmuel Y.
Mahgerefteh, Law Offices of Richard G. Witkin APC (collectively, Defendants)
and Does 1 through, alleging causes of action for declaratory relief, unfair
and unlawful business practice, injunctive relief, cancellation of instruments,
rescission based on unconscionability, and accounting. 
On
April 19, 2024, Charles O. Agege of Law Offices of Charles O. Agege, counsel
for Plaintiff, moved to be relieved as counsel. The motion is unopposed. 
LEGAL
STANDARD
The Court has
discretion to allow an attorney to withdraw, and such a motion should be
granted, provided that there is no prejudice to the client, and it does not
disrupt the orderly process of justice. (See Ramirez v. Sturdevant (1994) 21 Cal.App.4th 904, 915; People v. Prince (1968) 268 Cal.App.2d
398, 403-407.) 
A motion to
be relieved as counsel must be made on Judicial Council Form MC-051 (Notice of
Motion and Motion), MC-052 (Declaration), and MC-053 (Proposed Order). (Cal.
Rules of Court, rule 3.1362, subds. (a), (c), (e).) The requisite
forms must be served “on the client and on all parties that have appeared in
the case.” (Cal. Rules of Court, Rule 3.1362, subd. (d).) 
DISCUSSION 
Charles
O. Agege of Law Offices of Charles O. Agege (Counsel) seeks to be relieved as
counsel for Plaintiff. Counsel contends Plaintiff breached the fee agreement
and that Counsel advised Plaintiff he would withdraw if Plaintiff did not
comply with his fee obligation. (Agege Decl., ¶ 2.) The Court finds this
sufficient grounds to permit withdrawal. A lawyer may withdraw from
representation if the client breaches a material term of an agreement with the
lawyer and if the lawyer warns the client following the breach that the lawyer
will withdraw unless the client remedies the breach. (Cal. Rules
of Professional Conduct, rule 1.16, subd. (b)(5).) 
Counsel has provided the appropriate forms, i.e., Judicial Council
Forms CIV-051, CIV-052, and CIV-053. (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1362.)
Counsel has also provided proofs of service for each of these documents. 
Therefore, the Court GRANTS the motion. 
CONCLUSION 
The Court GRANTS the motion of Charles O. Agege to be relieved as
counsel for Plaintiff and will sign the proposed order. The withdrawal will not
be effective until Counsel files a proof of service of the signed order upon
Plaintiff. 
Counsel is ordered to give notice of this ruling and file proof of
service of same within five calendar days.