

 
BACKGROUND
 
On
January 26, 2023, Plaintiff Alejandra Perez (“Plaintiff”) filed a complaint against
Defendants Full of Flavor, LLC, Peter Trinh (“Defendants”) and Does 1 through 10
for (1) violation of the Unruh Civil Rights Act. 
 
Plaintiff asserts claims under the
Unruh Civil Rights Act (without injunctive relief). She seeks damages against
Cult, a restaurant located in the City of Santa Monica, the website address of
which is https://www.cultsantamonica.com/, alleging that the website could not
be read by screen reader software ("SRS").
 
MOVING PARTY
POSITION
 
            Defendants argue
that Plaintiff’s cause of action fails because she cannot prove that she had a
bona fide intent to patronize the business because she has previously sued 11
restaurants and did not visit them thereafter (Mot. p. 2-3.) Defendants also
argue that Plaintiff fails to show that she was denied access to the business
because of the website since “Defendant’s website, on October 1, 2022, offered
two versions of the menu: the first in image format (See Exhibit B), and the
second in PDF.” (Id. at p.12.) Defendants further argue Plaintiff lacks
standing under the Unruh Act because she failed to present credible evidence
that she visited Cult's website, https://www.cultsantamonica.com/, with the
requisite bona fide intent to use its services. (Id. at p.8.) Defendants
also argue that Plaintiff’s statement that she is permanently blind is an
inadmissible legal conclusion and lacks sufficient foundation and detail to
meet the initial burden placed upon Plaintiff because she does not offer any
medical or other records that details the nature or severity of her vision
problems or provide the opinion of a doctor or other health care professional
regarding her vision problems, or any evidence that she has been regarded by
others as having an impairment. (Id. at p.9.) 
 
OPPOSITION
 
            In
Opposition, Plaintiff argues that Defendants’ arguments are meritless because
of precedent. (Opp. p.3.) Additionally, Plaintiff argues that Defendants’
argument that Plaintiff had no intent to patronize the cafe at the time she
visited the website misses the point because she is arguing that unequal access
to the three menus prevented her from deciding whether to patronize. (Id.
at p. 4.) 
 
REPLY
 
            On Reply, Defendants
argue that Plaintiff’s argument that she “could not have formed an intent to
patronize the cafe without such information” is at best, specious, and in fact,
misleading because she could have used other search sites, asked Siri for
Cult’s telephone number and spoken to staff, or used the “Order Online” button
which would have been able to read the menu with her Screen Reader. (Reply p. 2-4.)
 Defendants also argue that Plaintiff’s
allegation that she visited the website to determine whether she liked the food
and drinks is not sufficient to establish standing because it shows that she
did not have a bona fide intent to patronize.  (Id. at p.5-6.) Defendants also argue
that precedent does not support her claim because the issue here is lack of
standing for not having a genuine intent to patronize. (Id. at p. 6-7.)
 
ANALYSIS
 
I.           
Legal Standard 
A party seeking summary judgment
has the burden of producing evidentiary facts sufficient to entitle him/her to
judgment as a matter of law. (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (c); Vesely v.
Sager (1971) 5 Cal.3d 153.) The moving party must make an affirmative
showing that he/she is entitled to judgment irrespective of whether or not the
opposing party files an opposition. (Villa v. McFerren (1995) 35
Cal.App.4th 733.) 
 
When a Defendant or
Cross-Defendant seeks summary judgment, he/she must show either (1) that one or
more elements of the cause of action cannot be established; or (2) that there
is a complete defense to that cause of action. (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd.
(p)(2).) When a Plaintiff or Cross-Complainant seeks summary judgment, he/she
must produce admissible evidence on each element of each cause of action on
which judgment is sought. (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (p)(1).) The moving
party’s “affidavits must cite evidentiary facts, not legal conclusions or
‘ultimate’ facts” and be strictly construed. (Scalf v. D. B. Log Homes, Inc.
(2005) 128 Cal.App.4th 1510, 1519; Hayman v. Block (1986) 176 Cal.App.3d
629, 639.)  
 
The opposing party on a motion
for summary judgment is under no evidentiary burden to produce rebuttal
evidence until the moving party meets his or her initial movant’s burden. (Binder
v. Aetna Life Insurance Company (1999) 75 Cal.App.4th 832.) Once the
initial movant’s burden is met, then the burden shifts to the opposing party to
show, with admissible evidence, that there is a triable issue requiring the
weighing procedures of trial. (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (p).) The
opposing party may not simply rely on his/her allegations to show a triable
issue but must present evidentiary facts that are substantial in nature and
rise beyond mere speculation. (Sangster v. Paetkau (1998) 68 Cal.App.4th
151.) As to any alternative request for summary adjudication of issues, such
alternative relief must be clearly set forth in the Notice of Motion and the
general burden-shifting rules apply but the issues upon which summary adjudication
may be sought are limited by statute. (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (f)(1).)
“A motion for summary adjudication shall be granted only if it completely
disposes of a cause of action, an affirmative defense, a claim for damages, or
an issue of duty.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (f)(1).) 
 
II.           
Evidentiary Objections 
Plaintiff
Alejandra Perez objects to evidence cited by Defendants Full of Flavor, LLC and
Peter Trinh in support of their motion for summary judgment. 
California Rules
of Court Rule 3.1354 requires a party making written objections to evidence to
submit a proposed order that includes places for the Court to indicate whether
it has sustained or overruled each objection and a place for the signature of
the judge.  CRC rule 3.1354(c) identifies the mandatory format for the
proposed order.  A Court must rule on individual objections only when they
are timely and in the proper form. (Demps v. San Francisco Housing Authority
(2007) 149 Cal. App. 4th 564, 578.) 
Here, Plaintiff’s
proposed order is not in one of the two mandatory forms, as a result, this is
grounds to overrule all objections for the failure to comply with CRC rule
3.1354. Nevertheless,
the Court rules as follows: 
SUSTAINED: 4, 7-9, 10, 11,
13-14, 16-23.
OVERRULED: 1-3, 5-6, 12,
15
III.           
Discussion 
Defendants move for summary judgment
on the basis that there are no triable issues of material fact concerning the
essential elements of Plaintiff’s cause of action. (Mot., p. 2.)  
Plaintiff
asserts a cause of action for violation of the Unruh Civil Rights Act.
The Unruh Civil Rights Act (Unruh Act) provides that “all
persons within the jurisdiction of this state are free and equal, and no matter
what their sex, race, color, religion, ancestry, national origin, disability,
or medical condition are entitled to the full and equal accommodations,
advantages, facilities, privileges, or services in all business establishments
of every kind whatsoever.” (Civil Code, § 51, subd. (b).) The Unruh Act
incorporates the protections created by the Americans with Disabilities Act of
1990 (ADA), 42 U.S.C. § 12101 et seq., and mandates that “[a] violation of the
right of any individual under the [ADA] shall also constitute a violation of
this section.” Thus, any violation of the ADA is a per se violation of the
Unruh Act, regardless of the defendant's intent. (See Civil Code § 51, subd.
(f); Lentini v. California Center for the Arts, Escondido (9th Cir.
2004) 370 F.3d 837, 847; Munson v. Del Taco, Inc. (2009) 46 Cal. 4th
661, 665.)
            
“A plaintiff can recover under the Unruh
Civil Rights Act on¿two alternate theories: (1) a violation of the ADA
(Civ. Code, § 51, subd. (f)); or (2) denial of access to a business
establishment based on intentional discrimination. [Citations.]”  (Martinez
v. San Diego County Credit Union¿(2020) 50¿Cal.App.5th 1048,
1059.)¿(Emphasis added.)  Intentional discrimination, however, need not be
proved to obtain damages under the Unruh Civil Rights Act when the plaintiff
establishes a violation of the ADA.  (Munson v. Del Taco, Inc., (2009)
46 Cal.4th 661, 665.) 
 
On October 1, 2022, Plaintiff
visited Defendants’ restaurant’s website, however, the website allegedly did
not have a PDF version of the menu. (Davis Decl. ¶12; Complaint ¶¶ 3-5; Decl.
Perez ¶¶3-6.) Therefore, Plaintiff believes she is entitled to Unruh Damages
and does not request injunctive relief. (UMF No. 14.) Plaintiff states that she
is legally blind and has required screen reader software (“SRS”) to vocalize
visual website content on computer and mobile device screens. (Plaintiff’s
Separate Statement of Material Fact [PSSMF] No. 1.) However, Defendants dispute
this fact because Plaintiff does not offer medical records or any evidence
proving her vision impairment. (Separate Statement of Material Fact [DSSMF]
No.1.) The parties do not dispute that Plaintiff did not call the restaurant
directly or refer to third-party sites such as DoorDash or Caviar to find the
restaurant’s menu. (Undisputed Material Fact “UMF” Nos. 6,11.) Plaintiff only
visited the website to review the restaurant’s menus. (UMF No. 7.) Additionally,
both parties agree that the restaurant did not intentionally discriminate
against Plaintiff. (UMF No. 8.) 
 
            Defendants
argue that the Cult restaurant website on October 1, 2022, was accessible and
there were alternative methods to find the menus. In support, they provide the
declaration of Defendant Peter Trinh who is a partner of Cult Santa Monica and
the Manager/Member of Full of Flavor, LLC. They also provide the expert
declaration of Craig Davis, who is the principal of Accessible Crew LLC, a
company that conducts accessibility audits for a variety of organizations
including commercial and noncommercial entities and has experience in auditing
and remediating websites for compliance with the Americans with Disabilities
Act and WCAG 2.0+. (Davis Decl. ¶2.) However, multiple statements made by Mr.
Davis are inadmissible because they are irrelevant to the websites condition on
October 1, 2022. However, in Mr. Davis’s supplemental declaration replying to
the opposition, he states that he “can verify that the option and presumably
the service to “Order Online” was available on all pages of the Defendant’s
website as far back as January 2022 by checking available scans of the web page
at Internet Archive, also known as The Wayback Machine, located at https://web.archive.org.”
(Supplemental Davis Decl. ¶ 8.) In Peter Trinh’s declaration, he states that
they “have a readable PDF version of our menu listed on the “Menu” page on the
website [and] [a] readable version of the menu is also available on DoorDash
and Caviar.” (Trinh Decl. ¶7.) However, it is unclear whether he is referring
to the date Plaintiff accessed the website or currently. Defendants also argue
that Plaintiff has previously sued about eleven other restaurants. 
 
            In opposition, Plaintiff argues that
the drinks, food, and dim sum menus appearing at
https://www.cultsantamonica.com/menu on October 1, 2022, were JPEG images that
did not contain and had not been encoded with any actual text that could be
recognized and navigated by screen reader software which would have been
impossible for a blind individual to learn about the items. (Plaintiff’s
Additional Separate Statement Nos. 1-2.) In support, Plaintiff presents her own
declaration along with the declarations of Joseph Allen Jr. and Beth A.
Franssen. Beth A. Franssen, is an “an expert in accessibility of websites to
visually impaired individuals who require and use screen reader software to
vocalize visual website content on computer and mobile device screens.”
(Franssen Decl. ¶1.) Ms. Franssen states that she “examined the native
electronic version of the website at https://www.cultsantamonica.com as it
existed in October 2022, as well as the native electronic versions of the three
menus (drinks, food, and dim sum) appearing on the website at the time.” (Id.
at ¶3.) Further, she states “[a]s they existed in October, 2022, the website
and its constituent webpages did not contain any PDF versions of the menus or
links to any downloadable PDF versions of the menus. The language "for a
pdf readable version of our menu, click here" did not appear anywhere on
the website or its webpages as they existed in October, 2022.” (Id. at
¶¶ 6-7.) Joseph Allen Jr. states that he was working as a legal investigator in
October 2022 for the Law Office of Morse Mehrban and downloaded the entire
website. (Allen Decl. ¶1.) Moreover, Mr. Allen states that he “examined the
entire website and its webpages to determine whether the contents of those
menus appeared anywhere on the website in either text or PDF form. I could not
locate the contents of those menus anywhere on the website in either text or
PDF form.” (Id. at ¶ 3.)  Plaintiff
also presents her own declaration stating that she visited the website on
October 1, 2022, to review its drink and food menus but was unable to access that
information because there were no PDF versions of the menus. (Perez Decl. ¶
3-5.)
 
             Defendants’ argument regarding the requirement
for medical records or other evidence to determine the severity of Plaintiff’s
visual impairment are meritless because Defendants fail to cite to any
authority requiring Plaintiff to provide medical records or other evidence to
prove a claimed disability. 
 
Defendants’ argument regarding standing shows
that it is a triable issue of material fact. The Court agrees with Plaintiff
that the facts in Martinez
v. San Diego County Credit Union and Thurston v. Midvale Corp are similar to the facts in
this case. For instance, in Martinez, the plaintiff who was blind,
brought an action against defendant credit union, claiming its website was
incompatible with software permitting him to read website content. (Martinez
v. San Diego County Credit Union (2020) 50 Cal.App.5th 1048, 1048.)
The Martinez plaintiff asserted a single cause of action under the Unruh
Civil Rights Act (Civ. Code, § 51 et seq.) based on two alternate theories: (1)
defendant's website violated the Americans with Disabilities Act (42 U.S.C. §
12111 et seq.) (ADA); and (2) defendant's actions constituted intentional
discrimination prohibited by the Unruh Civil Rights Act. (Civ. Code, § 51 et
seq.; 42 U.S.C. § 12101 et seq.) (Id.) In this case, Plaintiff is also
blind and alleges that the restaurant’s website was incompatible with her
screen reader software because the menu was not in PDF form. However, in Martinez,
the Court of Appeal did not address standing. (Id. at 1075, fn. 9.) Moreover,
in Thurston v. Midvale Corp, the plaintiff was blind and used a screen
reader to access the Internet, when she tried to use appellant’s website for
its restaurant her screen reader could not read the menu. (Thurston v.
Midvale Corp. (2019) 39 Cal.App.5th 634, 637.) The Court of Appeal
found that plaintiff had standing under the Unruh Act because she had intent to
use its services but encounters an exclusionary policy or practice that
prevents him or her from using those services. (Id. at 641.) 
 
Plaintiff’s bona fide intent to use Defendants’ services is a
triable issue of material fact. Here, Plaintiff stated in her opposition that “Plaintiff’s
Complaint is based upon her inability to access information (three menus)
appearing on Defendants’ website. Plaintiff may or may not have ultimately
decided to patronize Defendants’ Cafe depending on what she learned about its
menu items. However, she never got to the point where she could make that
decision because she was deprived of information relevant to it. The issue is
unequal access to information.” (Opp. p.4.) Plaintiff’s cited case law do not
show that the cases support standing as unequal access to information. Nevertheless,
the Supreme Court in White v. Square, Inc. noted that “standing analysis
is limited to the pleadings, in which [plaintiff] unequivocally alleges his
intention to use [defendant’s] services.” (White v. Square, Inc. (2019)
7 Cal.5th 1019, 1032.) Here, Plaintiff’s Complaint alleges “[o]n or about
October 1, 2022, Plaintiff visited the website in order to review the
restaurant’s menus but was unable to do so because the menus were in image form
and incompatible with screen reader software.” (Complaint ¶5.) In Thurston
v. Omni Hotels Management Corp. the Court of Appeal affirmed the trial
court’s decision to instruct jurors to make the determination whether plaintiff
possessed a bona fide intent to use its services, because it was “unclear []
whether her factual allegations could overcome [defendant’s] assertion that she
did “not actually possess a bona fide intent … to use its
services.” (Thurston v. Omni Hotels Management Corp. (2021) 69
Cal.App.5th 299, 309.)
 
The Court finds
that the evidence presented by the Plaintiff and Defendant give rise to triable
issues of material fact regarding the accessibility of the contents on the date
of the website visit. Thus, there is a genuine dispute of fact as to
whether Plaintiff was denied full and equal access to
the Defendants’ restaurant by not providing the menus in PDF form and if
Plaintiff had a bona fide intent to patronize. 
 
IV.       Conclusion 
            
            In all, Defendants’ Motion for Summary
Judgment is DENIED. 
 
Moving Party is ordered to give notice.
 