  Case Number:  BC700483    Hearing Date:   February 8, 2024    Dept:  74 Nasser Sedaghat, et al. v. Tarzana  Health and Rehabilitation Center, et al.   Plaintiff’s Motion to Compel Further  Responses to Discovery Requests   The  court considered the moving papers, opposition, and reply. BACKGROUND             This action arises from a wrongful  death.             On  April 2, 2018, Nasser Sedaghat, by and through his heirs and successors in  interest, filed a complaint against Defendant Tarzana Health and Rehabilitation  Center and Kamran Kamrava.             On  September 5, 2023, Plaintiff David Sedaghat (Plaintiff) propounded special  interrogatories (set one) on SSC Tarzana Operating Company, LP (dba Tarzana  Health and Rehabilitation Center) and SAVASeniorCare Administrative Services,  LLC (Defendants).              On  September 6, 2023, Plaintiff propounded requests for production of documents  (set one) on Defendants.             On  September 10, 2023, Plaintiff propounded special interrogatories (set two) on  Defendants. Plaintiff also propounded requests for production of documents (set  two) on Defendants.             Defendants  responded to the discovery on October 23, 2023.             On  December 7, 2023, Plaintiff filed this motion to compel further discovery. DISCUSSION             The court denies Plaintiff’s motion for  several reasons. First, Plaintiff’s single motion includes multiple sets of  discovery. Second, Plaintiff’s meet-and-confer declaration does not show a  reasonable and good faith attempt at informal resolution; for example, Plaintiff’s  emails that he attaches as exhibits do not identify for Defendants by set and  number which discovery responses are deficient. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2016.040;  Sedaghat Decl., ¶¶ 6-7; Ex. 1; Ex. 2.) Third, Plaintiff’s motion does not  include a separate statement which California Rules of Court, rule 3.1345,  subdivision (a) requires.             The  court denies Plaintiff’s request for sanctions because the motion was deficient,  because Defendants’ opposition was substantially justified, and because the law  does not award attorney’s fees as discovery sanctions to a self-represented  party. CONCLUSION                 The court denies Plaintiff’s motion  to compel further discovery.                 Defendants shall give notice.