

 
BACKGROUND
 
On
September 2, 2021, AAA T.L.C. Health Care, Inc. (“Plaintiff”) filed a complaint
against Arthur Glick (“Arthur”), Doris Glick (“Doris”), Laurie Glick (“Laurie”)[1], and Joan Glick Emery (“Joan”) (collectively
“Defendants”), alleging causes of action for: (1) breach of contract, (2) goods
and services rendered, (3) account stated, (4) open book account, (5) unjust
enrichment, and (6) interference with contractual relations. The complaint
arises from an alleged breach of contract to provide home care services for
Defendant Laurie’s parents, Defendant Arthur and Defendant Doris. 
 
On
November 1, 2021, Defendant Laurie filed a cross-complaint against Plaintiff, Priscilla
Roque Manzaneres, and DOES 1 through 20. 
 
On April
20, 2023, Defendant Laurie filed an amended cross-complaint against Plaintiff,
Priscilla Roque Manzaneres, and DOES 1 through 20, inclusive, alleging causes
of action for: (1) breach of contract, (2) breach of the implied covenant of
good faith and fair dealing, and (3) unlawful and unfair business practices.
 
On
September 7, 2023, Plaintiff filed the instant motion to compel Defendant
Laurie to provide code-compliant responses, without objection, to Plaintiff’s
Request for Production, Set Two, which were propounded on Defendant Laurie by
Plaintiff on or about July 10, 2023 (the “Motion”). Plaintiff also requests
monetary sanctions against Defendant Laurie and her attorneys of record in the
amount of $7,499.15. 
 
On
November 21, 2023, after hearing oral argument, the Honorable Timothy Patrick
Dillon sitting in Department 73 of this Court, granted the motion for summary
adjudication filed by Defendants Laurie and Joan as to the portion of
Plaintiff’s first cause of action based on the liquidated damages provision,
paragraph 45, and the entirety of Plaintiff’s sixth cause of action for
interference with contractual relations. (11/21/23 Minute Order at p. 15.) At
the November 7, 2023, hearing on the motion to compel Defendant Laurie’s
compliance with notice of depositions and to compel further testimony, the
Court inquired as to the extent of damages and the parties agreed that this
action should be reclassified as a limited civil action if the motion for
summary adjudication was granted. (11/21/23 Minute Order at p. 15.) The Court
reclassified this action “as limited because the amount in controversy is less
than $25,000.” (11/21/23 Minute Order at p. 15.) 
 
On
November 22, 2023, Department 1 of this Court issued an order reassigning this
action to the limited civil hub in Department 26 at the Spring Street
Courthouse before the Honorable Mark E. Windham. (11/22/23 Minute Order.) Plaintiff
filed a peremptory challenge to the Honorable Mark E. Windham and, on December
1, 2023, this action was reassigned to the Honorable Latrice A.G. Byrdsong
sitting in Department 25 at the Spring Street Courthouse.  
 
On
January 17, 2024, Plaintiff filed a reply brief as to the Motion. 
 
On
January 24, 2024, the Court continued the hearing on the Motion, which was
scheduled for January 24, 2024, to February 22, 2024 due to the hearing on the
Motion not being rescheduled on Department 25’s motion calendar. (01/24/24
Minute Order.) 
 
On
February 7, 2024, Defendant Laurie filed and served an opposition to the
Motion. 
 
On
February 13, 2024, Plaintiff filed and served an objection to Defendant
Laurie’s opposition brief. The objection states that while Defendant “Laurie’s
opposition is indeed predictable, and thus contains arguments that [Plaintiff]
was able to anticipatorily address in its January 17, 2024 Reply (particularly
as they relate to issues of unlimited versus limited jurisdiction cases), there
are still several arguments raised in [Defendant] Laurie’s late-filed opposition
that [Plaintiff] has not had the opportunity to address due solely to
[Defendant] Laurie’s flagrant violations of the rules and her ‘strategic’ late
filing of the opposition brief.” (Objection to Opposition, p. 1:12-17.) 
 
Although
filed and served late, the Court will consider Defendant Laurie’s opposition to
the Motion. (Cal. Rules of Court, Rule 3.1300, subd. (d).) 
 
 
 
 
MOVING PARTY
POSITION
 
            Plaintiff
contends that it is entitled to proper and code-compliant responses to the Requests
for Production of Document and Things it propounded. Plaintiff argues that
Defendant Laurie’s discovery responses fail to comply with CCP §§ 2031.280, 2031.230,
and 2031.240. Plaintiff further argues that sanctions for discovery violations
are mandatory. Moreover, Plaintiff indicates that meet and confer efforts were
fruitless. 
 
OPPOSITION

 
            In
opposition to the Motion, Defendant Laurie argues that Plaintiff’s discovery is
improper for a case subject to limited jurisdiction. Defendant Laurie further
argues that Plaintiff has not shown that it will be unable to prosecute or
defend the action effectively without the discovery sought. Lastly, Defendant
Laurie argues that her responses are substantively proper and there is no basis
for compelling a further response. 
 
REPLY
 
            On reply,
Plaintiff argues that the Court’s November 21, 2023 order did not vacate the
Motion, and the discovery obligations at issue in the instant motion arose
during the unlimited phase of this case. Plaintiff asserts that no late
opposition should be permitted and the failure to oppose a motion is tantamount
to consent of the granting of that motion. 
 
OBJECTION TO
THE LATE-FILED OPPOSITION
 
            In
its objection to the late-filed opposition of Defendant Laurie, Plaintiff
argues that Defendant Laurie referred to Plaintiff as a “he” belying Defendant
Laurie’s counsel targeting Plaintiff’s counsel in this litigation rather than
Plaintiff.  Plaintiff contends the
discovery standard applicable to this motion is the very liberal approach to
discovery outline in Tien v. Superior Court. Plaintiff also contends
that Defendant Laurie flagrantly and willfully misrepresents the status of the
arguments related to the first amended cross-complaint in that discovery was
not closed when Plaintiff propounded the requests at issue. Plaintiff argues
that Defendant Laurie fails to address Plaintiff’s contention that her
responses failed to comply with CCP §§ 2031.280, 2031.230, and 2031.240. Plaintiff
contends that the opposition also fails to address the argument that general
objections are not permissible. Next, Plaintiff asserts that Defendant Laurie
fails to address Plaintiff’s contention that Defendant Laurie failed to meet
and confer regarding the instant motion. Lastly, Plaintiff asserts that
Defendant Laurie did not address any of the issues underlying its request for
mandatory sanctions. 
 
 
ANALYSIS
 
I.          Compelling
Further Responses to Requests for Production of Documents    
A.               
Meet and Confer Requirement
 
A motion made pursuant to CCP §
2031.310 “shall be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration under Section
2016.040.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 2031.310(b)(2).) “A meet and confer declaration
in support of a motion shall state facts showing a reasonable and good faith
attempt at informal resolution of each issue presented by the motion.” (Code
Civ. Proc. § 2016.040.) 
 
In support of the Motion, Neal S.
Zaslavsky, Esq. (“Zaslavsky”) declares that after reviewing Defendant Laurie’s responses
to Plaintiff’s Requests for Production, Set Two, Nos. 88-139, he initiated the
meet and confer process with Defendant Laurie’s counsel on August 14, 2023.
(Zaslavsky Decl., ¶ 5; Exh. C.) Zaslavsky states that he sent an e-mail
explaining the defects in the responses and inviting counsel to a meet and
confer teleconference. (Id.) Defendant Laurie’s counsel never followed
up on his meet and confer letter or indicated her availability for a meet and
confer conference. (Id., ¶¶ 6-9.) 
 
Thus, the Court finds that Plaintiff
has complied with the meet and confer requirement pursuant to CCP §
2031.310(b)(2).
 
B.                
Legal Standard 
In California, discovery statutes
“must be construed liberally in favor of disclosure unless the request is
clearly improper.” Williams v. Superior Court (2017) 3 Cal.5th 531, 541.
“Under the discovery statutes, information is discoverable if it is
unprivileged and is either relevant to the subject matter of the action or
reasonably calculated to reveal admissible evidence.” John B. v. Superior
Court (2006) 38 Cal.4th 1177, 1186. “Discovery may relate to the claim or
defense of the party seeking discovery or of any other party to the action.” Ibid.
On receipt of a response to a demand
for inspection, copying, testing, or sampling, the demanding party may move for
an order compelling further response to the demand if the demanding party deems
that any of the following apply: (1) a statement of compliance with the demand
is incomplete; (2) a representation of inability to comply is inadequate,
incomplete, or evasive; or (3) an objection to the response is without merit or
too general. (Code Civ. Proc. § 2031.310(a)(1)-(3).) A motion brought pursuant
to CCP § 2031.310 “shall set forth specific facts showing good cause justifying
the discovery sought by the demand.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 2031.310(b)(1).)  
“To establish good cause, a discovery
proponent must identify a disputed fact that is of consequence in the action
and explain how the discovery sought will tend in reason to prove or disprove
that fact or lead to other evidence that will tend to prove or disprove the
fact.” Digital Music News LLC v. Superior Court (2014) 226
Cal.App.4th 216, 224. “In law and motion practice, factual evidence is
supplied to the court by way of declarations.” Calcor Space Facility, Inc.
v. Superior Court (1997) 53 Cal.App.4th 216, 224. 
Code Civ. Proc. § 2023.010(d) provides
that a misuse of the discovery process is failing to respond or to submit to an
authorized method of discovery.  Code
Civ. Proc. § 2023.010(h) states that a misuse of the discovery process includes
making or opposing, unsuccessfully and without substantial justification, a
motion to compel or limit discovery. A court may impose a monetary sanction
against a party engaging in the misuse of the discovery process or any attorney
advising such conduct under Code Civ. Proc. § 2023.030(a). A court has
discretion to fix the amount of reasonable monetary sanctions. Cornerstone
Realty Advisors, LLC v. Summit Healthcare Reit, Inc. (2020) 56 Cal.App.5th 771.  
 
1.         The Limited Jurisdiction
Status of this Action
Plaintiff propounded the discovery at
issue on July 10, 2023, to which Defendant Laurie provided responses on August
9, 2023. (Zaslavsky Decl., ¶¶ 2-3; Exhibits A-B.) Plaintiff contends that
Defendant Laurie’s responses are defective. (Zaslavsky Decl., ¶ 5.) On November
21, 2023, pursuant to the stipulation of the parties, this action was
reclassified from an unlimited civil jurisdiction action to one of limited
jurisdiction. (11/21/23 Minute Order at p. 15.) The instant motion was filed
when this action was classified as an unlimited civil jurisdiction action. 
In a limited civil action, as to an
adverse party, a party can use any combination of 35 of the following: (1)
interrogatories with no subparts; (2) demands to produce documents or things;
and (3) requests for admission with no subparts. (Code Civ. Proc. §
94(a)(1)-(3).) In a limited civil action “[d]iscovery is permitted only to the
extent provided by [Section 94] and Section 95.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 94.) “The
court may, on a noticed motion and subject to such terms and conditions as are
just, authorize a party to conduct additional discovery, but only upon a
showing that the moving party will be unable to prosecute or defend the action
effectively without the additional discovery.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 95.) “In
making a determination under this section, the court shall take into account
whether the moving party has used all applicable discovery in good faith, and
whether the party has attempted to secure the additional discovery by
stipulation or by means other than formal discovery.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 95(a).)

The Court finds that although the
discovery at issue was propounded when this action was classified as unlimited
civil jurisdiction, this action is now one of limited jurisdiction. Plaintiff’s
objection to Defendant Laurie’s late-filed opposition does not dispute the
contention of Defendant Laurie that “Plaintiff has already propounded and
Defendant Laurie . . . has already responded to 87 Requests for Production in
Set One; 153 Requests for Admission in Set One; Form Interrogatories, Set One,
which included multiple subparts; [and] 96 Special Interrogatories in Set One.”
(Opposition, p. 3:4-6.) 
Plaintiff’s citations to Sauer v.
Superior Court (1987) 195 Cal.App.3d 213 and City of Los Angeles v.
PricewaterhouseCoopers, LLC (2022) 84 Cal.App.5th 466 are inapposite as:
(1) neither case referenced CCP §§ 94 and 95, and (2) neither case stands for
the proposition that discovery propounded when a case is classified as
unlimited jurisdiction is operative when a case is reclassified pursuant to CCP
§§ 94 and 95. The issue in City of Los Angeles v. PricewaterhouseCoopers,
LLC, supra, 84 Cal.App.5th 466 was whether discovery sanctions could
be imposed “nine months after the case was dismissed with prejudice . . . for
egregious misuse of the discovery process while the litigation was pending.” City
of Los Angeles v. PricewaterhouseCoopers, LLC, supra, 84 Cal.App.5th
466, 475.  Here, there has been no
dismissal of this action. Moreover, Sauer v. Superior Court, supra, 195
Cal.App.3d 213 concerned a discovery referee’s order granting a motion to
compel discovery and recommending the imposition of monetary sanctions thereto.
Sauer v. Superior Court, supra, 195 Cal.App.3d 213, 216-17. Here,
Plaintiff is seeking to compel further discovery responses and there has been
no discovery referee involved in this action. 
Rather, this action is currently a
limited civil jurisdiction action and Plaintiff is seeking to compel further
responses to 52 requests for production. It is undisputed that Plaintiff has
exceeded the amount of discovery allowed under CCP § 94, as Plaintiff has
already propounded more than 35 discovery requests consisting of
interrogatories, requests for production of documents, and requests for
admission on Defendant Laurie. Although the discovery at issue was propounded
when this action was classified as unlimited, this action is now a limited
civil action and Plaintiff is seeking “to conduct additional discovery” by obtaining
further responses from Defendant Laurie. (Code Civ. Proc. § 95.) 
Plaintiff does not provide any
applicable legal authority indicating that Plaintiff can proceed with obtaining
previously propounded discovery—above the amount which is allowed under CCP §
94—when a case is reclassified from an unlimited civil jurisdiction action to a
limited civil jurisdiction action. 
If Plaintiff would like to compel
further responses, the Court will allow Plaintiff to follow the procedure in
CCP § 95 by filing a noticed motion to conduct additional discovery. 
Irrespective of such fact, and as will
be explained below, the Motion cannot be granted due to Plaintiff failing to
meet its burden in showing good cause.  
2.         The
Failure to Show Good Cause
            The
instant motion seeks to “compel further responses . . . pursuant to California
Code of Civil Procedure § 2031.310.” (Motion, p. i:13-14.) As such, Plaintiff
was required “to set forth specific facts showing good cause justifying the
discovery sought by the demand.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 2031.310(b)(1).)
            The
Court finds that Plaintiff has not met its burden in showing good cause to
warrant further responses to its second set of Requests for Production of
Documents. The declaration of Zaslavsky in support of the Motion does not
mention good cause or even attempt to explain “how the discovery sought will
tend in reason to prove or disprove that fact or lead to other evidence that
will tend to prove or disprove the fact.” Digital Music News LLC v. Superior
Court, supra, 226 Cal.App.4th 216, 224. Additionally, the
memorandum of points and authorities does not attempt to articulate whether
good cause exists to compel Defendant Laurie’s further responses. Plaintiff has
not met its burden in showing good cause to compel further responses. Calcor
Space Facility, Inc. v. Superior Court, supra, 53 Cal.App.4th 216,
223-24. The declaration of Zaslavsky is essentially a recitation of meet
and confer efforts between the parties and articulates counsel’s qualifications
in support of Plaintiff’s request for monetary sanctions. (Zaslavsky Decl., ¶¶
5-11.) 
            Thus, even
if this case was not reclassified as one of limited jurisdiction after
Plaintiff propounded the discovery at issue, the Court would be unable to grant
the Motion due to Plaintiff’s failure to show good cause.  
II.        Conclusion 
            
            Based on the foregoing, Plaintiff’s Motion to Compel Defendant
Laurie’s Further Responses to Set Two of its Request for Production and for
Monetary Sanctions is DENIED WITHOUT PREJUDICE. 
 
 
            Moving party is ordered to give
notice. 


