

 
BACKGROUND
 
On August
10, 2023, Plaintiffs Judith Guerra and Gloria Guerra (“Plaintiffs”) filed a complaint
against Defendants United Financial Casualty Company (“United”), AFNI, and AAA
Insurance (“AAA”) (collectively “Defendants”). The complaint is set forth on a Form
PLD-PI-001 and checks a cause of action for “Motor Vehicle” as a cause of
action. 
 
On November
30, 2023, the Court sustained the demurrer of Defendant United to the complaint
with 20 days leave to amend. 
 
On December
19, 2023, Plaintiffs filed the operative First Amended Complaint (“FAC”)
against Defendants alleging negligence and motor vehicle damages. The FAC is
set forth on pleading paper and contains no captioned causes of action.
Plaintiffs are self-represented. 
 
On
January 9, 2024, Defendant United filed and served the instant demurrer to the
FAC on the grounds that it fails to state facts sufficient to constitute a
cause of action. 
 
MOVING PARTY
POSITION
 
            Defendant
United demurs to the FAC on the grounds that Plaintiffs cannot maintain a
negligence cause of action. Defendant United asserts that “[t]he FAC confirms
that [Defendant United] was the Silva’s insurance carrier—not the insurance
carrier for Plaintiffs. As [Defendant United] does not owe any duties to random
third parties that it does insured [sic], the FAC confirms that Plaintiffs
cannot maintain their negligence claim against [Defendant United].” (Motion at
p. 5:26-6:2.)  
 
OPPOSITION
 
            None as of
February 16, 2024.  
 
REPLY
 
            None as of
February 16, 2024.
 
 
ANALYSIS
 
I.          Demurrer
A.               
Meet and Confer Requirement 
Prior to
filing a demurrer, the demurring party is required to meet and confer with the
party who filed the pleading demurred to for the purposes of determining
whether an agreement can be reached through a filing of an amended pleading
that would resolve the objections to be raised in the demurrer. (Code Civ.
Proc. § 430.41.) An insufficient meet and confer process is not grounds to
overrule or sustain a demurrer. (Code Civ. Proc. § 430.41(a)(4).) 
            Counsel for Defendant United, Kenny
C. Brooks (“Brooks”), declares that he attempted to reach Plaintiffs via
telephone to meet and confer regarding the instant demurrer. (Brooks Decl., ¶
2.) Counsel was unable to reach Plaintiffs at the phone number listed on the
caption of the FAC. (Id.) The Court finds that the meet and confer
requirement has not been met. However, the Court will still assess the merits
of the demurrer. The Court reminds the parties of the need to comply with the
requirements of the Code of Civil Procedure. 
B.        Legal Standard 
A demurrer for sufficiency tests
whether the complaint states a cause of action. Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147
Cal.App.4th 740, 747. In a demurrer proceeding, the defects must be
apparent on the face of the pleading or via proper judicial notice. Donabedian
v. Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994. In assessing a
demurrer, the court “treat[s] the demurrer as admitting all material facts
properly pleaded, but not contentions, deductions or conclusions of law.” Blank
v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311, 318. “The only issue involved in a demurrer
hearing is whether the complaint, as it stands, unconnected with extraneous
matters, states a cause of action.” Hahn v. Mirda, supra, 147
Cal.App.4th at 747.  A complaint will
be upheld against a demurrer if it pleads facts sufficient to place the
defendant on notice of the issues sufficient to enable the defendant to prepare
a defense.  Doe v. City of Los Angeles
(2007) 42 Cal.4th 531, 549-50. “Generally it is an abuse of discretion to
sustain a demurrer without leave to amend if there is any reasonable
possibility that the defect can be cured by amendment.” Goodman v. Kennedy
(1976) 18 Cal.3d 335, 349. A “[p]laintiff must show in what manner he can
amend his complaint and how that amendment will change the legal effect of his
pleading.” Ibid. 
 
 
1.         Negligence Cause of Action   
 
“To succeed in a negligence action,
the plaintiff must show that (1) the defendant owed the plaintiff a legal duty,
(2) the defendant breached the duty, and (3) the breach proximately or legally
caused (4) the plaintiff’s damages or injuries.” Thomas v. Stenberg (2012)
206 Cal.App.4th 654, 662. 
 
The FAC alleges that, on May 6,
2023, Plaintiff Judith Guerra was involved in an automobile accident with
William Silva (“Silva”), who is a client of Defendant United. (FAC, p. 1:17-19.)
The FAC then sets forth the details of the accident. (Id., p.
1:21-2:15.) Plaintiffs allege that after the accident, the parties filed their
claims and that is when Plaintiffs allege that they realized that AAA
negligently sold Plaintiff Gloria Guerra an insurance policy. (Id., p.
2:15-3:5.) 
 
The FAC then alleges a conversation
with Progressive concerning AAA concluding that Plaintiffs were at fault for
the accident. (FAC, p. 3:6-14.) Plaintiffs allege that “Progressive insurance
is the company that represented the other party in the accident but we received
a letter from AFNI, a subrogation company stating they were contacting us on
behalf of [Defendant] United . . . where they wanted to collect the amount of
$11,036.57 from us because we were held liable for the payments they had made.”
(Id., p. 3:15-18.) Plaintiffs further allege that “[Defendant] United .
. .  has sent over this company to
collect the money from us and even suspend our driving or registration
privileges if we don’t respond.” (Id., p. 3:17-18.) Plaintiffs allege
that “[t]he reason for [their] complaint is because both insurances have
ignored [Plaintiffs] and [their] property damages, [and] aside from that, they
. . . [want] [Plaintiffs] to pay for the other parties damages.” (Id.,
p. 3:23-24.) The FAC alleges that Plaintiffs “would like United Financial or
AAA to respond to [their] damages and place a 50/50 fault.” (Id., p. 4:4-5.)

 
The Court finds that the FAC does
not state a claim for negligence against Defendant United. The FAC does not
allege that Defendant United owed Plaintiffs a duty, does not allege the breach
of a duty, and does not allege causation. In fact, the FAC does not even allege
any damages caused by Defendant United. The FAC only makes a cursory reference
to Defendant United in the context of Defendant United insuring the other
driver involved in the automobile accident and Defendant United attempting to
collect payments it made arising from the automobile accident. 
 
Accordingly, the Court finds that
the FAC fails to state a cause of action for negligence against Defendant
United. Moreover, the lack of an opposition brief leads to an inference that
the demurrer is meritorious. Sexton v. Superior Court (1997) 58 Cal.App.4th
1403, 1410. By failing to oppose the demurrer, Plaintiffs have conceded to
the arguments raised therein because “[c]ontentions are waived when a party
fails to support them with reasoned argument and citations to authority.” Moulton
Niguel Water Dist. v. Colombo (2003) 111 Cal.App.4th 1210, 1215. The Court
acknowledges that Plaintiffs are self-represented, however, a pro per
litigant is held to the same standard as an attorney. Kobayashi v. Superior
Court (2009) 175 Cal.App.4th 536, 543.
 
            The Court SUSTAINS Defendant
United’s demurrer to the FAC without leave to amend. The Court finds that there
lacks a reasonable possibility of amendment given Plaintiffs’ acknowledgment in
the FAC that Defendant United was not the insurance carrier for Plaintiffs.  As such, Plaintiffs cannot maintain a
negligence claim against Defendant United as it owes no legal duty of care to them.
   
 
II.        Conclusion 
            
            In sum, Defendant’s United’s Demurrer to the FAC is
SUSTAINED WITHOUT LEAVE TO AMEND.  
 
Counsel for
the Moving Party is ordered to give notice and to electronically submit a
proposed judgment of dismissal within 10-days of this Court’s order.