

 
BACKGROUND
 
On October
2, 2023, Petitioners Michael John Hulley and Richard Michael Sanders
(“Petitioners”) filed a Petition to Confirm Arbitration Award (the “Petition”) to
confirm the award issued by a FINRA Arbitration Panel (“Arbitrator”) granting
Petitioners’ request for expungement against Respondent Martin L. Vukich, TTEE
of the Vukich Family Trust U/A (“Respondent”).   
 
On
February 5, 2024, after hearing, the Court continued the hearing on the
Petition due to numerous deficiencies pertaining to the Petition. The Court
found that the Petition did not comply with CCP § 1285.4 as it did not set
forth the names of the Arbitration Panel members and did not set forth the
substance of the parties’ agreement to arbitrate in the Petition. (02/05/24
Minute Order at p. 4.) Moreover, the Court found that the Petition and notice
of hearing did not include a proof of service indicating that Respondent was
served with a copy of the Petition and summons under CCP § 1290.4. (02/05/24
Minute Order at p. 5.)  Additionally, the
Court found that the Petition did not satisfy the requirements of CCP § 1283.6
because there was no indication that a signed copy of the award was served on
both parties by registered or certified mail, or by a prescribed method in the
parties’ arbitration agreement. (02/05/24 Minute Order at p. 5.) Petitioners
were ordered to file supplemental papers addressing the Court’s identified
deficiencies at least 16 court days before the next scheduled hearing. (02/05/24
Minute Order at p. 6.) The Court’s minute order stated that the hearing was
continued to March 6, 2024 (02/05/24 Minute Order at p. 6); however, the
register of actions indicates that the hearing was continued to February 22,
2024. 
 
On
February 6, 2024, Petitioners filed the instant Amended Petition to Confirm
Arbitration Award (the “Amended Petition”). 
 
On
February 14, 2024, Petitioners filed a Proof of Service indicating that
Respondent was served with the Amended Petition via mail on February 6, 2024. An
Acknowledgement of Receipt is attached to the Proof of Service and is signed by
Respondent’s counsel. 
 
MOVING PARTY
POSITION
 
            Petitioners
request that the Court enter an order confirming the arbitration award issued
in the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (“FINRA”) arbitration
proceedings styled Martin L. Vukich, TTEE of the Vukich Family Trust U/A
Dated 07/17/2003, Case No. 22-00379, which included the Arbitrator’s
recommendation for expungement of all references to this matter from their
Central Registration Depository (“CRD”) registration records. 
 
OPPOSITION

 
            No
opposition has been filed.
 
REPLY
 
            No reply
has been filed. 
 
 
ANALYSIS
 
I.          Confirming
an Arbitration Award   
A.               
Legal Standard 
“Any party to an arbitration award in
which an award has been made may petition the court to confirm, correct, or
vacate the award.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 1285.) “A petition under this chapter
shall: (a) Set forth the substance of or have attached a copy of the agreement
to arbitrate unless the petitioner denies the existence of the agreement. (b)
Set forth the names of the arbitrators. (c) Set forth or have attached a copy
of the award and the written opinion of the arbitrators, if any.” (Code Civ.
Proc. § 1285.4.) The petition must also “name as respondents all parties to the
arbitration and may name as respondents any other persons bound by the
arbitration award.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 1285.) “If a petition . . . is duly
served and filed, the court shall confirm the award as made, whether rendered
in this state or another state.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 1286.)  A petition to confirm an award must be served
and filed within four years after the date the petitioner was served with a
signed copy of the award. (Code Civ. Proc., § 1288.) 
“If an [arbitration] award is
confirmed, judgment shall be entered in conformity therewith.  The judgment so entered has the same force
and effect as and is subject to all the provisions of law relating to, a
judgment in a civil action of the same jurisdictional classification; and it
may be enforced like any other judgment of the court in which it is entered, in
an action of the same jurisdictional classification.” (Code Civ. Proc., §
1287.4.) 
Code Civ. Proc § 1283.6 provides that
“[t]he neutral arbitrator shall serve a signed copy of the award on each party
to the arbitration personally or by registered or certified mail or as provided
in the agreement.” Also, a party may seek a court judgment confirming an
arbitration award by filing and serving a petition no more than four years, but
not less than 10 days, after the award is served. (Code Civ. Proc. §§ 1288,
1288.4.) 
Code of Civil Procedure § 1290.4, the
statute governing proper service of the Amended Petition states, in pertinent
part:
“(a) A copy of the petition and
written notice of the time and place of the hearing thereof and any other
papers upon which the petition is based shall be served in the manner provided
in the arbitration agreement for the service of such petition and notice. 
(b) If the arbitration agreement does
not provide the manner in which such service shall be made and the person upon
whom service is to be made has not previously appeared in the proceeding and
has not previously been served in accordance with this subdivision: ¶ (1)
Service within this State shall be made in the manner provided by law for the
service of summons in an action; ¶ (2) Service outside this State shall be made
by mailing a copy of the petition and notice of hearing and other papers by
registered or certified mail. Personal service is the equivalent of such
service by mail. Proof of service by mail shall be made by affidavit showing
such mailing together with the return receipt of the United States Post Office
bearing the signature of the person on whom service was made.” 
B.        Discussion  
Petitioners have satisfied the
requirements of Code of Civil Procedure section 1285.4. Petitioners have provided
a copy of the arbitration award. (Amended Declaration of Jacqueline C. Karama, ¶
10; Exh. F.) The Amended Petition also sets forth the names of the Arbitration
Panel Members. (Amended Petition, ¶¶ 10, 12.) The Amended Petition also
articulates the substance of the parties’ agreement to arbitrate. (Amended
Petition, ¶¶ 5-9.) Petitioners have also attached a copy of the parties’ signed
Uniform Submission Agreements, in which the parties consented to arbitration
before FINRA. (Amended Declaration of Jacqueline C. Karama, ¶¶ 4-5; Exhs. B-D.)

Petitioners have met the requirements
of Code of Civil Procedure section 1290.4. The Court notes that Petitioners
have provided a proof of service indicating that Respondent’s counsel was
served with a copy of the Summons and Petition by email and mail. (Amended
Declaration of Jacqueline C. Karama, ¶¶ 14; Exh. K.) Petitioners have also presented
evidence that Respondent does not oppose the Petition. (Id., ¶ 2; Exh.
A.) On February 14, 2024, Petitioners filed a Proof of Service indicating that Respondent
was served—via counsel—with the Amended Petition by mail on February 6, 2024.
Respondent’s counsel even signed an Acknowledgement of Receipt concerning the
Amended Petition. Petitioners have therefore complied with CCP § 1290.4. 
Additionally, the Court finds that
Petitioners have met the requirements under CCP § 1283.6. Code Civ. Proc §
1283.6 provides that “[t]he neutral arbitrator shall serve a signed copy of the
award on each party to the arbitration personally or by registered or certified
mail or as provided in the agreement.” The final arbitration award was served
on the parties through FINRA’s service portal. (Amended Declaration of
Jacqueline C. Karama, ¶ 10; Exh. E.) The Uniform Submission Agreements, in
which the parties consented to arbitration, state that the FINRA Code of
Arbitration Procedure governs the arbitration. (Id., ¶¶ 4-5; Exhs. B-D.)
The FINRA Code of Arbitration Procedure requires that parties use the FINRA
service portal to electronically file and serve documents, and mandates the use
of the FINRA service portal. (See FINRA Code of Arbitration Procedure <https://www.finra.org/rules-guidance/rulebooks/finra-rules/12300>
[as of February 22, 2024].)
Accordingly, the Court GRANTS the
Amended Petition to Confirm Arbitration Award. 
II.        Conclusion 
            
            The Amended Petition to Confirm Arbitration Award filed
by Petitioners Michael John Hulley and Richard Michael Saunders is GRANTED. The
Amended Petition is unopposed which creates an inference that the Amended
Petition is meritorious. (Sexton v. Superior Court (1997) 58 Cal.App.4th
1403, 1410.) 
 
            Moving parties are ordered to give
notice. 