  Case Number:  23STCV04847    Hearing Date:   October 14, 2024    Dept:  40      Superior
Court of California
 
County of Los Angeles
 
Department 40
 



JAYDA MUNKBERG, an individual; ROBERT SMITH, an individual,
Plaintiffs,
v.
HYUK RO, an individual; UBER TECHNOLOGIES, INC., a
  Delaware Corporation; RASIER, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company;
  RASIER-CA, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company; STATE FARM MUTUAL
  AUTOMOBILE INSURANCE COMPANY, an Illinois Corporation; THE STANDARD FIRE
  INSURANCE COMPANY, a Connecticut entity, organization unknown; STEPHEN
  SPENCER MORRIS, an individual; and DOES 1 through 50, inclusive,
Defendants.
  
_____________________________________
THE STANDARD FIRE INSURANCE COMPANY,
Cross-Complainants,
v.
HYUK RO, an individual; UBER TECHNOLOGIES, INC., a
  Delaware Corporation; RASIER, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company;
  RASIER-CA, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company; STEPHEN SPENCER MORRIS,
  an individual; and DOES 1 through 50, inclusive,
Cross-Defendants.
  
 


 Case No.: 23STCV04847 
 Hearing Date: October 14, 2024
 Trial Date: April 29, 2025
 [TENTATIVE] RULING RE:
Defendant/Cross-defendant Stephen Spencer Morris’ Demurrer
  to the Cross-Complaint.



 
 
Procedural History
This action involves a multiple motor vehicle accident that
occurred on or about May 9, 2021, between Defendants Hyuk Ro, Uber
Technologies, Inc., Rasier, LLC, Rasier-CA, LLC (the Uber Defendants), Stephen
Spencer Morris and Plaintiffs Munkberg and Smith, wherein Plaintiffs sustained
injuries. Plaintiffs also allege Defendants State Farm Mutual Automobile
Insurance Company and The Standard Fire Insurance Company failed to pay uninsured
motorist benefits and/or underinsured motorists benefits to Plaintiffs under
their insurance policies.
Defendant/Cross-Complainant The Standard Fire Insurance Company’s
(“SFI”) filed a Cross-Complaint alleging causes of action for (1) equitable
indemnity; (2) apportionment; (3) contribution; and (4) declaratory relief. 
Defendant/Cross-defendant Stephen Spencer Morris now demurs to the
Cross-Complaint, which SFI has not opposed.
After review, the Court SUSTAINS without leave to amend the Demurrer
because Defendant/Cross-defendant Stephen Spencer Morris has been improperly
joined as a Cross-defendant in the Cross-Complaint.
 
Background Allegations
This case arises from allegations that Uber, its driver Hyuk Ro,
and its affiliates (collectively the Uber Defendants) and Stephen Spencer Morris
(Morris), the driver of a separate car, failed to use a degree of care,
caution, and prudence in driving, operating, and controlling each of their
respective vehicles, creating a roadway obstruction in an active lane of the
I-10 E/B Freeway. (Compl., ¶¶11, 22-28.) Specifically, Hyuk Ro initially stopped
his own vehicle in an active lane of the 1-10 Freeway, and a second driver Morris
in a private car crashed into that vehicle. (Compl., ¶ 10.) The Uber Defendants
and Morris also failed to adequate safety measures to warn other vehicles of
impending danger and/or roadway obstructions. (Compl., 24.) As a result,
Plaintiffs suffered severe and serious injuries due to a multiple vehicle
collision. (Compl., ¶25.) Insurance Defendants breached the insurance policies
held by Plaintiffs by failing to pay uninsured motorist benefits and/or
underinsured motorists benefits to Plaintiffs. (Compl., ¶¶3, 8-9, 30-34,
37-42.)
The Cross-Complaint, filed by Defendant and Cross-Complainant Standard
Fire Insurance Co. (SFI), alleges claims for 1) equitable indemnity, 2)
apportionment, 3) contribution, and 4) declaratory relief against Morris and the
Uber Defendants.
Demurrer 
 
Legal Standard: “The primary
function of a pleading is to give the other party notice so that it may prepare
its case [citation], and a defect in a pleading that otherwise properly
notifies a party cannot be said to affect substantial rights.” (Harris v.
City of Santa Monica (2013) 56 Cal.4th 203, 240.)¿¿ 
“A¿demurrer¿tests the legal
sufficiency of the factual allegations in a complaint.” (Ivanoff v. Bank of
America, N.A.¿(2017) 9 Cal.App.5th 719, 725.) The Court looks to whether
“the complaint alleges facts sufficient to state a cause of action or discloses
a complete defense.” (Id.) The Court does not “read passages from a
complaint in isolation; in reviewing a ruling on a demurrer, we read the
complaint ‘as a whole and its parts in their context.’ [Citation.]” (West v.
JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. (2013) 214 Cal.App.4th 780, 804.) The Court
“assume[s] the truth of the properly pleaded factual allegations, facts that
reasonably can be inferred from those expressly pleaded and matters of which
judicial notice has been taken.” (Harris, supra, 56 Cal.4th p. 240.)
“The court does not, however, assume the truth of contentions, deductions or
conclusions of law. [Citation.]” (Durell v. Sharp Healthcare (2010) 183
Cal.App.4th 1350, 1358.)¿¿ 
A general demurrer may be brought
under Code of Civil Procedure section 430.10, subdivision (e) if insufficient
facts are stated to support the cause of action asserted or under section
430.10, subdivision (a), where the court has no jurisdiction of the subject of
the cause of action alleged in the pleading. All other grounds listed in
Section 430.10, including uncertainty under subdivision (f), are special
demurrers. Special demurrers are not allowed in limited jurisdiction courts.
(Code Civ. Proc., § 92, subd. (c).)¿¿ 
Leave to amend must be allowed
where there is a reasonable possibility of successful amendment. (Goodman v.
Kennedy (1976) 18 Cal.3d 335, 348.)¿ The burden is on the complainant to
show the Court that a pleading can be amended successfully. (Id.)¿¿¿ 
 
Meet and Confer
Before filing a demurrer or motion
to strike, the moving party must meet and confer in person or by telephone with
the party who filed the pleading to attempt to reach an agreement that would
resolve the objections to the pleading. (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 430.41, 435.5.)
“Any determination by the court that the meet and confer process was
insufficient shall not be grounds to overrule or sustain a demurrer.” (Code
Civ. Proc., § 430.41, subd. (a)(4).) A demurrer and motion to strike have
similar meet and confer requirements. (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 430.41, 435.5.) 
Morris advances the declaration of
his counsel of record, who attests that he met and conferred with SFI’s counsel
via telephone before filing the present demurrer. (Chalamidas Decl., ¶6, ex.
A.) The parties could not resolve the matter informally. (Id.)
 
Merits of Demurrer 
Defendant/Cross-defendant Morris
demurs to the entire Cross-Complaint on the ground that he and
Defendant/Cross-Complainant SFI are not joint tortfeasors in this case.
Specifically, Morris argues SFI has subjected him to misjoinder where there is
no contractual privity between him and SFI; no contractual privity between him
and Plaintiffs; he was sued for negligence and motor vehicle negligence; and he
has nothing to do with Plaintiffs’ first party coverage action against its
insurers including SFI.
Here, two types of joinder exists:
compulsory joinder (CCP § 389) and permissive joinder (CCP § 379, formerly
cited as sections 379a, 379b, and 379c). The Court finds that neither Code
sections support joining Morris as a Cross-defendant in this instant case. 
The Cross-Complaint alleges that
“Plaintiff’s [sic] damages, if any, were proximately caused by the actions and
primary negligence of CROSS-DEFENDANTS herein, and each of them, in that
CROSS-DEFENDANTS, and each of them are partially or completely, and solely
liable for the damages sought by Plaintiffs in their Complaint filed in this
action, and that the conduct, if any, of Cross-Complainant, was passive,
secondary, remote, and/or nonexistent.” (Cross-Compl., ¶¶8, 16, 18, 20.) 
“The salutary procedure afforded by
sections 379a, 379b, and 379c of the Code of Civil Procedure is clearly
intended to be available upon a showing either that the negligence of two or
more persons, whether joint, independently concurrent, or successive,
contributed proximately to cause the injury for which recovery is sought, or
that the injury for which recovery is sought was proximately caused by the
negligence of one or another or several of two or more persons and, as to each
person who is not charged absolutely, that a reasonable uncertainty, requiring
determination of some factual or legal issue, exists in respect to alternative
or quantitative liability. [Cleaned up].” (Landau v. Salam (1971) 4
Cal.3d 901, 906.)
In the operative Complaint,
Plaintiffs assert a sole cause of action for negligence against Morris.
(Compl., ¶¶16, 24-28.) By contrast, Plaintiffs assert a different cause of
action for breach of contract against SFI. (Compl., ¶¶9, 37-42.)  As such, Plaintiffs do not seek recovery
against Morris and SFI for the same injury because Plaintiffs allege physical
injuries against Morris on the basis of negligence liability, but financial
injuries against SFI on the basis of contract liability. Although these
injuries arise from the same subject accident, the Complaint alleges different
bases of liability against Morris and SFI. Also, the Complaint is devoid of any
allegations that Morris caused or contributed to the breach of insurance
contract between Plaintiffs and SFI. Furthermore, the Cross-Complaint makes no
such allegations. (Cross-Compl., ¶¶7-16, 18.) Likewise, neither the Complaint
nor Cross-Complaint allege that Morris was a party to the insurance contracts. (Id.)
Nor has any opposition been filed. Thus, the Court finds that Morris is not a
“indispensable” or “conditionally necessary” party to the Cross-Complaint. 
Finally, there is no indication or
rebuttal argument made showing that this defect can be cured by amendment.
Conclusion
Based on the foregoing, the Court SUSTAINS without leave to amend the
Demurrer to the Cross-Complaint as to Cross-Defendant Morris only.