 Case Number:  24STCV17331    Hearing Date:   October 14, 2024    Dept:  40 Superior
Court of California
County
of Los Angeles
Department 40
 



JOSHUA LORNE ROGERS,
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
CARLSON INDUSTRIES LLC, a California limited liability company;
  NATASHA TERESA SKIDMORE, an individual; NICHOLAS KANTER, an individual; and
  DOES 1-100, inclusive,
                        Defendants.
 


 Case No.:          24STCV17331
 Hearing Date:   October
  14, 2024
 Trial Date:        None
  Set
 [TENTATIVE] RULING RE:
Defendant Carlson Industries LLC’s Special Motion to Strike [RES ID # 4699]



 
I. Background
A. Pleadings
Plaintiff Joshua Lorne Rogers
(Rogers) sues Defendants Carlson Industries, LLC, Natasha Teresa Skidmore
(Skidmore), Nicholas Kanter (Kanter), and Does 1 through 100 (collectively,
Defendants) pursuant to a July 12, 2024 Complaint alleging causes of action
for: (1) Breach of Contract, as to Skidmore; (2) Breach of Contract, as to Carlson
Industries; (3) Inducing Breach of Contract, as to Carlson Industries and
Kanter; (4) Intentional Interference with Contractual
Relations, as to Carlson Industries and Kanter; (5) Breach of Covenant of Good
Faith, as to Carlson Industries; and (6) Breach of Covenant of Quiet Enjoyment,
as to Carlson Industries. 
Defendant Carlson Industries owns
the real properties located at 2100 N. Main Street, Los Angeles, CA 90031 (2100
Property) and 660 South Avenue 21, Los Angeles, CA 90031 (660 Property). On
March 6, 2021, Carlson Industries and Rogers entered into a lease agreement for
Unit #B-5 at the 2100 Property. On December 28, 2021, Carlson Industries and
Rogers entered into a lease agreement for Unit # 5 at the 660 Property. On
September 13, 2023, Rogers and Skidmore entered into a sublease agreement in
which Skidmore was to sublease Rogers’ unit at the 660 Property from October
15, 2023, to October 14, 2024. 
Rogers alleges that Skidmore made
one payment of $8,400 under the Sublease and made no payments thereafter. He
alleges that Carlson Industries and Kanter caused Skidmore to discontinue
payments under the sublease. He further alleges that Carlson Industries denied
Rogers’ request to sublease and barred Rogers from hosting an event at the 660
Property, in violation of the lease and the covenant of good faith and fear dealing
and breached the covenant of quiet enjoyment by hosting twice yearly “Artwalks”
at the 660 Property. 
On January 11, 2024, acting as
attorney for Carlson Industries, Kanter sent Rogers and Skidmore a proposed
Settlement Agreement. The proposed Settlement Agreement included leasing the
unit in the 660 Property directly to Skidmore and dismissing the ongoing
unlawful detainer lawsuit against Rogers, in exchange for Rogers terminating
his lease and vacating the property.
This action was filed on July 12,
2024.
B. Motion Before the Court
On September 13, 2024, Carlson
Industries filed a special motion to strike (anti-SLAPP motion) against the Complaint’s
third and fourth causes of action, on the grounds that those claims and
allegations arise from protected activity related to settlement communications
and that Rogers cannot show a probability of prevailing on those causes of
action.  
On September 30, 2024, Rogers opposed
the anti-SLAPP motion. 
Carlson Industries’ anti-SLAPP
motion is now before the Court. 
 
II. Anti-SLAPP Motion
A. Request for Judicial Notice
Pursuant to Evidence Code section
452, subdivision (d), the Court may take judicial notice of “[r]ecords of (1)
any court of this state or (2) any court of record of the United States or of
any state of the United States.” The court however may not take judicial notice
of the truth of the contents of the documents. (Herrera v. Deutsche Bank
National Trust Co. (2011) 196 Cal.App.4th 1366, 1375.) Documents are only
judicially noticeable to show their existence and what orders were made such
that the truth of the facts and findings within the documents are not
judicially noticeable. (Lockley v. Law Office of Cantrell, Green, Pekich,
Cruz & McCort (2001) 91 Cal.App.4th 875, 885.)  
Per Carlson Industries’ request, the
Court takes judicial notice of the following: 
The February 27, 2024 Unlawful
Detainer action filed by Carlson Industries, LLC against Joshua Lorne Rogers,
in the Los Angeles Superior Court, Case No. 24STUD02568; and
The October 18, 2023 Unlawful
Detainer action filed by Carlson Industries, LLC against Joshua Lorne Rogers,
in the Los Angeles Superior Court, Case No. 23STUD13600.  
(9/12/24 RJN, Exhibits 1 and 2.)
B. Legal Standard
Anti-SLAPP
analysis under Code of Civil Procedure section 425.16 proceeds in two familiar
steps. In the first step, the defendant or moving party must make “a threshold
showing that the challenged cause of action is one ‘arising from’ protected
activity.” (Barry v. State Bar of California (2017) 2 Cal.5th 318, 321,
quotations omitted (Barry).) In this context, the term “protected
activity” refers to speech or petitioning activities. (Barry, 2 Cal.5th
at p. 321.) A claim arises from protected activity when that activity underlies
or forms the basis for the claim; otherwise stated, “the defendant’s act
underlying the plaintiff’s cause of action [must] itself [be] … an act in
furtherance of the right of petition or free speech.” (Park v. Board of
Trustees of California State University (2017) 2 Cal.5th 1057, 1063,
quotations omitted (Park).) “[T]he focus is on determining what ‘the
defendant’s activity [is] that gives rise to his or her asserted liability—and
whether that activity constitutes protected speech or petitioning.’” (Ibid.)
In teasing out whether protected conduct exists, courts should consider the
elements of the challenged claim and what actions by the defendant
supply those elements and consequently form the basis for liability. (Ibid.) 
If the court finds the defendant or moving party succeeds
at the first step, then the burden shifts to the plaintiff to “demonstrate[] a
probability of prevailing on the claim.” (Ibid. [quotations omitted].)
At the second step, courts “evaluate the defendants’ evidence only to determine
if it defeats that submitted by the plaintiff as a matter of law.’ [Citation.]
‘[I]n order to establish the requisite probability of prevailing [citation],
the plaintiff need only have “‘stated and substantiated a legally sufficient
claim.’” [Citation.] “Put another way, the plaintiff ‘must demonstrate that the
complaint is both legally sufficient and supported by a sufficient prima facie
showing of facts to sustain a favorable judgment if the evidence submitted by
the plaintiff is credited.’”‘ [Citation.] … That burden [is] not particularly
high.” (Area 51 Productions, Inc. v. City of Alameda (2018) 20
Cal.App.5th 581, 602 (Area 51 Productions, Inc.).) “Claims with the
requisite minimal merit may proceed.” (Navellier v. Sletten (2002) 29
Cal.4th 82, 94 (Navellier).) If the cause of action satisfies both
prongs of the anti-SLAPP statute, then it is subject to being struck. (Barry,
supra, 2 Cal.5th at p. 321.) 
As stated by our State’s highest Court: “This is a
‘summary-judgment-like procedure at an early stage of the litigation.’” (Varian
Medical Systems, Inc. v. Delfino (2005) 35 Cal.4th 180, 192 (Varian).) 
1. First-Prong Analysis 
A defendant meets its burden of showing that a plaintiff’s
claim arises from that defendant’s exercise of free speech or petition rights
by making a prima facie showing that the act or conduct underlying the
plaintiff’s claims falls within one of the four categories found in Code of
Civil Procedure Section 425.16, subdivision (e). (Navellier, supra,
29 Cal.4th at p. 88.) “Courts should analyze each claim for relief — each act
or set of acts supplying a basis for relief, of which there may be several in a
single pleaded cause of action — to determine whether the acts are protected
[the first prong of the analysis] and, if so, whether the claim they give rise
to has the requisite degree of merit to survive the motion [the second prong of
the analysis].” (Bonni v. St. Joseph Health System (2021) 11 Cal.5th
995, 1010.) 
Code of Civil Procedure Section 425.16, subdivision (e)
states: 
As used in this section, “act in furtherance of a person’s
right of petition or free speech under the United States or California
Constitution in connection with a public issue” includes:  
(1) any written or oral statement or writing made before a
legislative, executive, or judicial proceeding, or any other official
proceeding authorized by law,  
(2) any written or oral statement or writing made in
connection with an issue under consideration or review by a legislative,
executive, or judicial body, or any other official proceeding authorized by
law,  
(3) any written or oral statement or writing made in a
place open to the public or a public forum in connection with an issue of
public interest, or  
(4) any other conduct in furtherance of the exercise of the
constitutional right of petition or the constitutional right of free speech in
connection with a public issue or an issue of public interest.  
(Code Civ. Proc., § 425.16, subd. (e).)
At the first step of the anti-SLAPP analysis, the moving
defendant bears the burden of identifying all allegations of protected
activity, and the claims for relief supported by them. When relief is sought
based on allegations of both protected and unprotected activity, the
unprotected activity is disregarded for the first prong of the anti-SLAPP
discussion. If the court determines that relief is sought based on allegations
arising from activity protected by the statute, the second step is reached. (Baral
v. Schnitt (2016) 1 Cal.5th 376, 396 (Baral).) 
As
a preliminary matter, the Court notes that while Carlson Industries refers in
its motion at times to the third cause of action as “Breach of Covenant of Good
Faith,” as is indicated on the caption of the Complaint, in fact within the
body of the Complaint, the third cause of action is entitled “Inducing Breach
of Contract.” Carlson Industries’ arguments as to the third cause of action clearly
refer to the latter. So, to avoid confusion, the Court clarifies that at all
times herein referenced in this ruling the third cause of action is referred as
to a claim for Inducing Breach of Contract. 
In the motion, Carlson Industries argues that the
Complaint’s third and fourth causes of action arise from protected settlement
related activity, which have consistently been held to constitute protected
activity under the anti-SLAPP statute (Mot. pp. 3, 6-7.) The initial unlawful
detainer action was filed in October, 2023, alleging that Rogers was served
with a Termination Notice on September 14 and 15, 2023. (RJN, Ex. 2, ¶ 6.)
Meanwhile, Rogers alleges that on September 13, 2023, he entered into a sublease
with Skidmore. (Complaint, ¶ 8.) Rogers further alleges that Carlson Industries
made unspecified “statements and offers to Skidmore that encouraged her to
discontinue payments to Plaintiff under the sublease,” and that they send an “email
and proposed Settlement Agreement to Plaintiff and Defendant Skidmore
offering  Skidmore to lease the premises
and to dismiss the Unlawful Detainer action in exchange for various conduct.
(Complaint, ¶ 10.)
In
opposition, Rogers argues that the challenged causes of action do not arise
from protected activity because nothing pertaining to Skidmore is “under
consideration by the court.” (Opp. p. 1.) Rogers argues that Carlson Industries
offered Skidmore a direct lease in place of her sublease with Rogers. (Opp. p. 5.)
 He asserts that although titled
Settlement Agreement, the document was merely a lease proposal which he argues
impermissibly circumvented his sublease agreement with Skidmore. (Opp. p. 5.) Rogers
further argues that the Settlement Agreement document was not part of a
protected settlement negotiation for anti-SLAPP purposes in this action, because
Skidmore was not a party to the underlying unlawful detainer case between Carlson
Industries and Rogers (Opp. pp. 5-6.) 
Rogers
also addresses the gravamen test, and argues that “even if the claims were
found to allege a mixture of protected and unprotected activity, they should
not be stricken because the protected activity is merely incidental to the
unprotected activity.” (Opp. p. 8:25-9:1.) In so doing, he cites to outdated
authorities that predate the Supreme Court’s most recent articulation of the
relevant anti-SLAPP test, Baral v. Schnitt (2016) 1 Cal.5th 376 and Bonni
v. St. Joseph Health System (2021) 11 Cal.5th 995. Additionally, Rogers
does not specify what activity he refers to as unprotected activity. 
Here, the Court finds that the third and fourth causes of action
arise from protected activity. Carlson Industries filed the underlying unlawful
detainer action against Rogers on October 18, 2023. (Mot. p. 3.) In an effort
to resolve that litigation, Carlson Industries, through its counsel Nicholas
Kanter, sent the proposed Settlement Agreement to Rogers and Skidmore on
January 11, 2024. (Mulgrew Decl., ¶ 4; Compl., Ex. 4.) Kanter’s
communications related to the proposed Settlement Agreement are protected under
the anti-SLAPP statute because the litigation privilege extends to statements
made in connection with pending litigation. This perspective aligns with
the idea that the litigation privilege covers conduct associated with
litigation, including settlement negotiations and mediation, which are seen as
exercises of the First Amendment right to petition.  (O&C Creditors
Grp., LLC v. Stephens and Stephens XII, LLC (2019) 42 Cal.App.5th 546; Navellier,
supra, 29 Cal.4th 82 at 85-86). Settlement negotiations, regardless of
when they occur, are protected activities because they involve communications
pending before or under consideration by an official body.  (Navellier,
supra, 29 Cal.4th at 90.) 
Rogers'
argument that the third and fourth causes of action are not protected
communications—because the proposed Settlement Agreement “exceeded the scope of
settlement negotiations” by involving a third party, Skidmore, who was not
party to the unlawful detainer action, and because it “sought to resolve
matters entirely outside the scope” of the case—is unpersuasive. Skidmore, as
sublessee to Rogers’ lease agreement, is bound by the conditions of Rogers’
lease. (Compl., Ex. 3, Sublease Agreement ¶ 8.) Further, the sublease expressly
provides that “Sublessee agrees that if the Master Lease is terminated for any
reason, this Sublease Agreement will terminate effective the same date.”
(Compl., Ex. 3, Sublease Agreement ¶ 10.) Thus, unavoidably, the underlying
unlawful detainer action directly affects Skidmore, and she is necessarily a
party to the Settlement Agreement. Thus, Rogers’ arguments do not support a
conclusion that the claims do not arise from protected settlement
communications. 
Further, the Complaint alleges that the Settlement Agreement underlies
the causes of action for Inducing Breach of Contract and Intentional
Interference with Contractual Relations. Rogers states that “Ms.
Skidmore chose to breach her sublease agreement with me based primarily on her
understanding, based on the proposal (“Settlement Agreement”) she received from
Mr. Kanter and additional direct communication with Mr. Kanter that she was “in
the right” to discontinue paying me and wait to sign a direct lease for the
same property.” (Rogers Decl. ¶ 6.) Thus, as Skidmore’s decision to breach the
lease was “based primarily on her understanding, based on the proposal
(“Settlement Agreement”), the protected activities underlie the causes of
action. (Rogers Decl. ¶ 6.) No other specific conduct underlying these claims is
alleged in the Complaint.
Thus, Carlson Industries has satisfied its burden to show that the allegations
supporting the third and fourth causes of action fall within the definition of
protected activity for the purposes of satisfying the first prong of the
anti-SLAPP analysis. 
2. Second-Prong Analysis 
If the first prong of the anti-SLAPP analysis is met, “the
burden shifts to the plaintiff [i.e., Ms. Weiss] to demonstrate[] a probability
of prevailing on the claim[s].” (Park, supra, 2 Cal.5th at p.
1063 [quotations omitted].) “Claims with the requisite minimal merit may proceed.”
(Navellier, supra, 29 Cal.4th at p. 94.) The plaintiff “must
demonstrate that the complaint is both legally sufficient and supported by a
sufficient prima facie showing of facts to sustain a favorable judgment if the
evidence submitted by the plaintiff is credited.” (Area 51 Productions, Inc.,
supra, 20 Cal.App.5th at p. 602 [quotations omitted].) 
As discussed above, the litigation
privilege applies to statements made in connection with pending litigation. As Carlson Industries argues, “The litigation privilege applies
to settlement communications at issue in this case because: (1) they were made
during the pendency of the UD Lawsuit; (2) by litigants/participants authorized
by law (i.e., Kanter, in his capacity as attorney for Carlson); (3) to attempt
to resolve the UD Lawsuit; and (4) the settlement communications were directly
connected to the UD Lawsuit. (Complaint, ¶ 10, Ex. 4; Mulgrew Decl. ¶ 4)” (Mot.
pp. 8:26-9:2.) 
Rogers argues that the litigation
privilege should not apply because Kanter sent the Settlement Agreement not to
achieve the objects of the litigation, but rather to apply financial pressure on
Rogers. (Opp. p. 11.) However, “[t]he litigation privilege protects even
communication made with an intent to harm, so long as the communication is made
in ‘relation’ to a pending/ongoing or genuinely contemplated judicial or other
official proceeding.”  (Geragos v.
Abelyan (2023) 88 Cal.App.5th 1005, 1031-1032.) Accordingly, Rogers has not
met his burden to state and substantiate a legally sufficient claim.  
Because the Settlement Agreement,
and the communications and activities pursuant to it, are privileged, Rogers
has not shown a probability of success on the merits of the third and fourth
causes of action.
III. Conclusion
Defendant Carlson Industries Special Motion to Strike under Code of Civil Procedure section 425.16 is
GRANTED. 
The third cause of action for Inducing Breach of Contract and the fourth cause of action for
Intentional Interference with Contractual Relations are stricken.  