 Case Number:  23CMCP00184    Hearing Date:   December 7, 2023    Dept:  A 23CMCP00184
In the Matter of:  Johqa
 Langley, a minor by and through her Guardian ad Litem, Ashanti Langley
Thursday,
 December 7, 2023 at 8:30 a.m.
 
[TENTATIVE]
ORDER CONTINUING
 THE HEARING ON PETITION FOR CHANGE OF NAME
 
      Petitioner, Johqa Maliqe Langley, a minor, by and through her
 mother, Ashanti Langley, filed this Petition for an Order for Change
of Name to Johqa Maliqe Webb, to assume the last name of her guardian.  
      Only one parent consented to the name change. Petitioner is
required to disclose the name and address of the other parent and serve that
person with the Order to Show Cause at least 30 days before the continued hearing
date. (Code Civ. Proc., § 1277(a)(4).) The Court’s file does not reflect that
Petitioner filed a proof of service showing that the other parent was given
notice of the hearing. 
      Petitioner may personally deliver to the other parent notice of
the time and place of the hearing or a copy of the order to show cause” (Code
Civ. Proc., § 1277; Code
Civ. Proc., § 415.10.) If the other parent lives outside the state, the
parent may be served by first-class mail, postage prepaid, and requiring a
return receipt. (Code
Civ. Proc., § 415.40.)
      Petitioner is required to make diligent efforts to locate the
other parent. If the other parent cannot be located, Petitioner shall file a
supplemental declaration stating what attempts were made to locate the other
parent and why service cannot be reasonably accomplished. The supplemental declaration
shall be filed no less than 10 court days before the continued hearing date. Additionally,
the Court’s file does not reflect that Petitioner has complied with the
requirements for publication of the Order to Show Cause. Code Civ. Proc., §
1277. 
            Accordingly,
the Court continues the hearing to February 9, 2024,  at 8:30 a.m. in Department A of the Compton
Courthouse. Petitioner is ordered to comply with the foregoing requirements. 