  Case Number:  19STCV03192    Hearing Date:   December 7, 2023    Dept:  A 19STCV03192 Apolonio
 Garcia, by and through his Guardian ad Litem, Rafael Garcia v. Antonio Uribe
 Caracheo, et al.
December
 7, 2023 at 8:30 a.m.
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER CONTINUING THE HEARING ON PETITION
FOR APPROVAL OF COMPROMISE OF A CLAIM FOR A PERSON WITH A DISABILITY
 
      The
Second Amended Complaint (“SAC”) alleges that on December 14, 2018, Plaintiff,
employed by West Coast Warehousing, was struck by a truck driven by Defendant,
Antonio Uribe Caracheo (“Caracheo”), who was driving with the permission and
consent of Lincoln Transportation Services, Inc. (“Lincoln”). Plaintiff alleges
claims for negligence and negligent entrustment.
      As a
result of the incident, Plaintiff suffered a severe traumatic brain injury and multiple
facial fractures. (Attachment 8.) He suffers from major neurocognitive disorder
as a result.  He is not a candidate for
vocational rehabilitation or for future employment and is 100 percent disabled.

      Plaintiff
seeks approval of the Plaintiff’s settlement. (CA
R LOS ANGELES SUPER CT Rule 4.115.) Lincoln will pay $9,825,000 and West
Coast Management will contribute $25,000. A lien for medical expenses has been
waived.
      Plaintiff’s
counsel requests attorney’s fees totaling $3,930,000 which is 40 percent of the
gross settlement. In awarding fees, the court must use a reasonable fee standard,
giving consideration to the terms of the retainer agreement. (Cal.
Rules of Court, 7.955.) The court may consider the following non-exclusive factors:
the fact that a person with a disability is involved and that person’s circumstances;
the amount of the fee in proportion to the value of the services performed; the
novelty and difficulty of the questions involved, and the skill required; the
amount involved and the results obtained; the experience, reputation, and
ability of counsel and the attorney’s relative sophistication. If the fee is
contingent, the court considers the risk of loss borne by counsel, the amount
of costs advanced, and the delay in payment of fees and obtaining reimbursement
for costs. (Cal.
Rules of Court, 7.955 subd. (b).)
      The
Court has considered the declaration of Plaintiff’s counsel, Gary Dordick, who took
this case on a contingency fee basis. He attests to the case’s difficulty and
complexity, the number of Defendants involved, and the coordination required because
of Plaintiff’s worker's compensation case. The Court finds the fee request is
reasonable under all of the circumstances. 
      The
Court has reviewed the billing records of counsel for costs incurred in
litigating this matter totaling $204,088.30. After deducting attorney’s fees
and costs, the net settlement to Plaintiff is $5,690,911.70. Plaintiff proposes
to use $4,000,000 to fund a single-premium deferred annuity. The balance of
$1,690,911.70 will be transferred to an existing trust for Plaintiff’s benefit.

      Because
the settlement involves a transfer to a trust, the Probate Division must review
the trust terms. (CA
R LOS ANGELES SUPER CT Rule 4.115.)  Plaintiff
must lodge with the filing window of the Probate Division at Stanley Mosk
Courthouse at least 30 days before the hearing a physical copy of the face page
of the petition to approve the compromise and attach a copy of the proposed
trust instrument and the proposed order approving the compromise and trust. (Id.)

      Accordingly, while the Court is
inclined to approve the terms of settlement, an order cannot be submitted
without the Probate Division’s review. Accordingly, the Court continues the
hearing on this Petition to February 9, 2023, at
8:30 a.m. in Department A of the Compton Courthouse. Plaintiff is ordered to
comply with Local Rule 4.115.
 