 Case Number:  23STCV14579    Hearing Date:   October 25, 2023    Dept:  14 (1)        Demurrer
 
            Defendants now
demurs to the entire complaint on the grounds that the facts alleged are
insufficient to support any cause of action and are uncertain.
 
Decision
 
            The
demurrer to the first, fifth, sixth, and seventh causes of action is OVERRULED.
 
            The
demurrer to the second, third, fourth, eighth, and ninth causes of action is
SUSTAINED, with 20 days leave to amend.
 
First Cause of Action: Breach of Fiduciary Duty
 
            “The
elements of a cause of action for breach of fiduciary duty are: 1) the
existence of a fiduciary duty; 2) a breach of the fiduciary duty; and 3)
resulting damage. (City of Atascadero v. Merill, Lynch, Pierce, Fenner &
Smith, Inc. (1999) 68 C.A.4th
445, 483).” Pellegrini v. Weiss (2008) 165 Cal.App.4th 515, 524. Corporate officers have a fiduciary
duty to the corporation they serve. See Oakland Raiders v. National
Football League (2005) 131 Cal.App.4th 621, 632-633 (listing
types of fiduciary relationships).
 
            Plaintiffs have pled that Defendant
Muthoni was a corporate officer of Plaintiff Care who engaged in self-dealing
by hiring his own company to do work he knew it couldn’t do. (Complaint ¶¶
29-32). Defendant Muthoni argues that he was not a proper corporate
officer because he had no management authority. That is a question of fact which
cannot be resolved on demurrer.
 
Second Cause of Action: Intentional Misrepresentation
 
            The
elements of a cause of action for fraud are: (1) a false representation, actual
or implied, or concealment of a matter of fact material to the transaction
which defendant had a duty to disclose or defendant’s promise made without the
intention to perform; (2) defendant’s knowledge of the falsity; (3) defendant’s
intent to deceive; (4) plaintiff’s justifiable reliance thereon; and (5)
resulting damage to plaintiff. Mosier v. Southern
 Calif. Physicians Ins. Exchange (1998) 63 Cal.App.4th
1022, 1045. 
 
Fraud must be specifically pled,
and the particularity requirement necessitates the pleading of facts that “show
how, when, where, to whom, and by what means the representations were
tendered.” Stansfield v. Starkey (1990) 220 Cal.App.3d 59, 73. The
purpose of the rules of fraud pleading is to inform the defendant and the court
of the specific grounds of the charge and enable them to evaluate it. See Chapman
v. Skype Inc. (2013) 220 Cal.App.4th 217, 231.
 
            The alleged
misrepresentations here are (1) Defendant Muthoni’s assertion “that he had the
skills, qualifications, and experience to serve as CTO” and Defendant Deviate’s
assertions that it “could meet Care as One’s needs” in a manner that would “fulfill
Care as One’s promises.” (Complaint ¶¶ 36-38). This is not sufficient to
satisfy the rules of fraud pleading. Plaintiff does not say when these
representations were made, to whom, and in what form. The alleged
representations themselves are so generic as to be almost meaningless.
 
            Essentially
all the court knows from this pleading is that Defendants’ performance was
unsatisfactory to Plaintiffs. While poor performance may lead to any number of
outcomes, a fraud claim is not one of the possibilities.
 
Third Cause of Action: Negligent Misrepresentation
 
            The
pleadings, law, and analysis on this claim are the same as on the claim above,
and the result should be the same.
 
Fourth Cause of Action: Tortious Interference
 
            There is no
single cause of action for “Tortious Interference with Prospective Economic
Advantage.” There are possible claims for (a) Intentional Interference with
Prospective Economic Advantage or (b) Negligent Interference with Prospective
Economic Advantage. Compare Youst v. Longo (1987) 43 Cal.3d 64, 71, fn.
6 with Venhaus v. Shultz (2007) 155 Cal.App.4th 1072, 1078. It
appears that Plaintiffs wish to make both of these claims (Complaint ¶ 61)
(“intentionally or negligently failed to perform”). If so, they will need to
correctly identify and plead them as separate causes of action, since the
elements and legal requirements of each claim differ.
 
            There is also
at least one substantive legal problem with Plaintiffs’ claims. The alleged
interference consists in part of work done (or not done) by Defendant Muthoni.
But Defendant Muthoni was an employee of Plaintiff Care. But a party charged
with interference must be a “stranger to the contract.” See Applied
Equipment Corp. v. Litton Saudi Arabia Ltd. (1994) 7 Cal.4th
503, 513-514. It cannot be an agent or employee of the principal. See Shoemaker
v. Myers (1990) 52 Cal.3d 1, 24.
 
            The alleged
interference also consists in part of work done (or not done) by Defendant
Deviate. To this, Defense responds that Defendant Deviate was a party to the
relevant contracts. This is unclear from the Complaint; paragraphs 16 and 60
suggest that Deviate had some contractual obligations, but do not make clear
how those obligations arose, or to whom they were owed. Plaintiff will need to
clear that up as well.
 
Fifth Cause of Action: Conversion
 
            “The
elements of a claim for conversion are (1) ‘the
plaintiff's ownership or right to possession of the property at the time of the
conversion,’ (2) ‘the defendant's conversion
by a wrongful act or disposition of property rights,’ and (3) damages. (Ibid.).
‘It is not necessary that there be a manual taking of the property,” only “an
assumption of control or ownership over the property, or that the alleged
converter has applied the property to his [or her] own use.’ (Id. at pp.
451-452).” Prakashpalan v. Engstrom, Lipscomb and Lack (2014) 223 Cal.App.4th
1105, 1135.
 
            Plaintiff
Care is a software company. They allege that they own the computer code that
lets them run their software and provide their services. (Complaint ¶ 66).
They also allege that Defendant Muthoni kept them from accessing that code for one
month after his termination. (Complaint ¶¶ 19-24, 67-69). This resulted in
loss of business. (Complaint ¶ 70).
 
            That is
sufficient to plead conversion.
 
Sixth Cause of Action: Receiving Stolen Property
 
            Penal Code
§ 496 provides in relevant part:
 
“(a) Every person…who conceals,
sells, withholds, or aids in concealing, selling, or withholding any property
from the owner, knowing the property to be so stolen or obtained, shall be
punished by…
A principal in the actual theft of
the property may be convicted pursuant to this section.
…
(c) Any person who has been injured
by a violation of subdivision (a) or (b) may bring an action for three times
the amount of actual damages, if any, sustained by the plaintiff, costs of
suit, and reasonable attorney's fees.”
 
The demurring parties treat this cause of action as
analytically identical to the conversion claim. The discussion given above in
connection with that claim governs here as well.
 
Seventh Cause of Action: Unfair Competition
 
            “Business
and Professions Code section 17200…establishes three varieties of unfair competition
- acts or practices which are unlawful, or unfair, or fraudulent.” Podolsky
v. First Healthcare Corp. (1996) 50 Cal.App.4th 632, 647. Each
prong presents an independent basis for relief with different elements to be
proven. See South Bay Chevrolet v. General Motors Acceptance Corp.
(1999) 72 Cal.App.4th 861, 886, 888; compare Mayron v. Google LLC
(2020) 54 Cal.App.5th 566, 574 with Camacho v. Automobile Club of
Southern California (2006) 142 Cal.App.4th 1394, 1403.
 
Where (as here) a claim has been asserted
on the “unlawful” prong of the statute, all plaintiff needs to do is establish
a violation of some other legal duty. Mayron v. Google LLC (2020) 54
Cal.App.5th 566, 574. In that sense, this claim is wholly derivative
of Plaintiff’s other claims. Since they survive, it does too.
 
However, Plaintiff
is advised of the following: claims under Bus. & Prof Code § 17200 are resolved
by bench trial. Nationwide Biweekly Administration, Inc. v. Superior Court
(2020) 9 Cal.5th 279, 305 (“a cause of action under the UCL…is to be
tried by the court rather than by a jury”). And where a complaint includes
bench issues and jury issues, the court tries the bench issues first. Hoopes
v. Dolan (2008) 168 Cal.App.4th 146, 156-157. Since this claim appears
to be a carbon copy of Plaintiff’s other claims, if it survives to the Final
Status Conference, the result will likely be that the court tries this cause of
action first and resolves all the factual disputes which exist in this case. So,
in practical effect, inclusion of this claim may ultimately result in waiver of
any right Plaintiff may have to a trial by jury. Plaintiff may wish to
reconsider this cause of action in light of these realities.
 
Eighth and Ninth Causes of Action: Infliction of
Emotional Distress
 
            Only
Plaintiff Bhatti may assert these causes of action, since Plaintiff Care is a
corporation and eo ipso cannot suffer emotional distress. However, the course of conduct alleged here is poor performance in a
business setting, followed by theft after termination. Defendants are accused
of tanking the business for which they worked, whether by design or by sheer
haplessness, then holding hostage a major piece of proprietary information
after they were fired. This caused financial harm, for which the business, as
the victim, may recover. It does not give other employees of the business the
right to recover for emotional distress.
 
            To
state a claim for IIED, Plaintiff Bhatti must allege that they were the express
target of the Defendants’ behavior, or that under the circumstances, the Defendant
must have been aware that his actions would harm that Plaintiff. See Christensen v. Superior Court
(1991) 54 C.3d
868, 903. To state a claim for NIED, Plaintiff Bhatti must allege the ordinary
elements of negligence, which include a legal duty of care. Marlene F. v.
Affiliated Psychiatric Medical Clinic (1989) 48 Cal.3d 583, 588, 598.
 
            There are
no facts alleged here to show that Defendants were targeting Plaintiff Bhatti
personally, or that they should have expected Plaintiff Bhatti to suffer severe
emotional distress. The allegations here are a failure to properly do business
as an officer of a company. There is no legal expectation that a failure to
perform, or even corporate theft, will cause severe emotional distress to
another officer of that company, especially in light of the general policy
against allowing purely financial injuries to result in tort actions. See Sheen v. Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. (2022) 12 Cal.5th 905, 922 (“there is no
recovery in tort for…financial harm unaccompanied by physical or property
damage”)
 
            Likewise,
there is no pleading that either defendant owed a legal duty of care to Plaintiff
Bhatti. Defendant Muthoni owed a fiduciary duty to Plaintiff Care. But that
does not automatically translate into a personal legal duty owed to Plaintiff
Bhatti.
 
Conclusion
 
            Because
Plaintiffs have properly pled claims for breach of fiduciary duty, conversion,
receiving stolen property, and unfair competition, the demurrer to the first,
fifth, sixth, and seventh causes of action is OVERRULED. Because Plaintiffs
have failed to properly plead any other claim, the demurrer to the second,
third, fourth, eighth, and ninth causes of action is SUSTAINED. Because this is
the first test of the pleadings and the court cannot predict what facts
Plaintiffs might be able to allege to cure the deficiencies in their Complaint,
the court grants Plaintiffs 20 days leave to amend.
 
(2)        Motion to
Strike Complaint
 
            Defendants
now move this court for an order striking the claims for punitive damages and
attorney’s fees from the Complaint. 
 
Decision
 
The motion is DENIED.
 
            As
discussed above, Plaintiffs have properly stated claims for breach of fiduciary
duty and conversion, both of which are intentional torts which may give rise to
a punitive damages award. See Civil Code § 3294(c)(1). Plaintiffs have
also properly stated a claim for receiving stolen property, which may give rise
to an attorney’s fees award. Penal Code § 496(c).