  Case Number:  21STCV12626    Hearing Date:   April 26, 2024    Dept:  K CASE NAME:           OSCAR
CONEJO v. CITY OF PASADENA 
CASE
NUMBER:                              21STCV12626 
HEARING
DATE:                                                    4/26/24
                         
TRIAL
DATES:                    1/17/24 TO 1/24/24
 
______________________________________________________________________________
 
TENTATIVE RULING (Italicized
Portion AMENDED)
 
MOTIONS:  
 

Plaintiff’s Motion
     JNOV                                                                  DENIED
Plaintiff’s
     Motion for New Trial/Additur                                      DENIED
Defendant’s
     Motion to Tax Costs                                                   GRANTED

 
 
 
 
I.               
 BACKGROUND AND PROCEDURAL HISTORY
 
            This was a motor vehicle collision in which Defendant City
of Pasadena (“D”) admitted negligence for its city truck colliding with
Plaintiff Conejo’s (“P”) trailer.  P was
a passenger in the truck towing the damaged trailer and claimed physical injury
from the collision.  A 4 day jury trial
was held in January 2024 solely on the issues of causation of P’s alleged
personal injury damages and the quantity of those damages.  On 1/24/24 the jury returned a verdict for P in
the amount of $64,250 (comprised of past and future medical expenses and past
and future pain and suffering).  
            P now brings the instant motions for (1) JNOV, and (2)
New Trial as to damages or Additur.  D
brings its motion to tax P’s costs in the amount of $925.55 for producing and copying
trial binders.
 
A.   
D’s
Allegedly Late Opposition Brief (AMENDED)
 
            As a preliminary procedural matter, P
objects to D’s Opposition Brief as untimely under CCP § 659a, which requires opposing
briefs to be served within 10 days of service of the moving brief.  P’s motions were filed and served electronically
on 3/15/24.  Without an extension for
service of the opening brief, the due date for the opposition would have been 10
days later on 3/25/24.  However, CCP §
1010.6(a)(3)(B) extended D’s opposition deadline by 2 court days because of electronic
service of P’s motions.  While this
Section does not apply to extend a movant’s deadline for a new trial or JNOV,
it does apply to opposition and Reply briefs. 
Therefore, the deadline for D’s opposition was extended from 3/25/24 to 3/27/24.  As such, D’s opposition filed on 3/27/24 was
timely.
  
II.            
ANALYSIS
 
A.   
P’s
JNOV Motion 
 
P’s JNOV motion under CCP § 629 must
be procedurally denied because it does not 
provide
the remedy P seeks.  Typically, JNOV’s
are requested by the losing party at trial to vacate the verdict/judgment found
by the jury and instead enter a judgment for the losing party.  Here, the jury returned a verdict in favor
of P; the granting of a JNOV under this section would result in this Court invalidating
that verdict and instead entering a verdict in favor of D.  This is not the result P seeks.  P moves this Court to vacate the quantity of
damages awarded and instead grant a higher amount, but to keep the judgment in
P’s favor.  Given that the verdict rendered
for P, a JNOV motion is not the vehicle to address P’s particular grievance.  An examination of the wording of CCP § 629
illustrates this point:   The Court
“shall render judgment in favor of the aggrieved party notwithstanding the
verdict whenever a motion for directed verdict for the aggrieved party
should have been granted had a previous motion been made.”  CCP § 629 [italics added].  Applying that standard to this case, that
means that P should be awarded judgment notwithstanding the verdict (which
he actually was awarded) only if he should have been granted a motion for
directed verdict had such motion been made. 
Here, had P made a motion for directed verdict for the damages he now
seeks, such motion would rightly have been denied.  It’s obvious that the contortions that this
Court has to go through in an attempt to fit P’s claims for damages above what
the jury awarded into a JNOV motion prove the point that a JNOV is simply not
applicable here.  Moreover, even if P’s
JNOV was procedurally proper, this Court would deny it substantively as this
Court would find, for the reasons set forth below, that there was sufficient
evidence to support the jury’s damages verdict. 
DENIED.
 
 
B.   
P’s
Motion for New Trial or Additur
 
1.    
Sufficiency
of the Evidence
 
CCP § 657 sets forth several
grounds for the granting of a new trial; P asserts inadequacy 
of
the damages (§ 657.5) and insufficiency of the evidence (§ 657.6).  The standard P must meet to be successful in
this motion is high:
 
A new trial shall not be granted
upon the ground of insufficiency of the evidence to justify the verdict or
other decision, nor upon the ground of . . . inadequate damages, unless after
weighing the evidence the court is convinced from the entire record, including
reasonable inferences therefrom, that the court or jury clearly should have
reached a different verdict or decision.
 
CCP
§ 657.
 
            The main argument P poses is that
his evidence of economic damages from his experts (both as to having been
caused by the accident and the reasonable costs of treatments incurred) was not
refuted and therefore the jury could not have awarded anything less.  P is incorrect on this assertion, both as a
matter of law and as a matter of fact.  
 
                        As a matter of law, jurors are sole
judges of the facts and it is their sole province to weigh the evidence and determine
the credibility of the witnesses.  P is
simply wrong on his assertion that just because there was no testimony to
contradict his witnesses’ testimony that the jury is required to find P’s
witness testimony to be true.  The jury
is free to discount or even disregard entirely any witness’ testimony even if
no other evidence is admitted to contradict it. 
Here, the jury was free to accept, reject, or discount some or all of
the testimony of  P’s expert Dr.
Light.  D’s counsel certainly gave the
jury many reasons to question that witness’ credibility including: P’s initial
physical examination showed his condition as normal;  P’s spinal disk protrusions were degenerative;
and that P had a pre-existing shoulder condition and did not have an MRI performed
on it until two and a half years after the accident.  Even more importantly, the jury could have
(and apparently did) looked at the mechanism of the accident and determined
that there could not have been enough force generated to cause the extent of
bodily injury claimed by P.  Evidence
presented to support this conclusion include: 
this was a slow speed (under 10 mph) collision between D’s front right fender
with the rear left fender of an open bed trailer being towed by a truck P was
sitting in; P was not the driver of the truck towing the trailer, he was a
passenger located at the seat diagonally and furthest situated from the moment
of impact; the jury looked at photographs of the damage to the trailer fender
as well as a photograph of P shortly after the accident and having climbed onto
the back of the trailer; no emergency services or ambulances were requested or
responded; both P and his driver indicated to P at the scene that they were OK;
and all parties drove off from the scene on their own power.  
 
            P
is also incorrect factually, as D’s expert Dr. Liberman provided testimony
contradicting 
some of Dr. Light’s opinions.  Dr. Liberman testified that the disk bulges
were degenerative, 
taking many years to form, predated
the accident, and was not caused by a traumatic incident.  
            Moreover,
there were no typical indications of trauma to P’s spine.  Dr. Liberman also testified that the spinal
injections given to P were not justified because P had not exhausted conventional
conservative treatment such as anti-inflammatory and pain medications, heat
device, nerve stimulator, and others.  He
further testified that conservative treatment would have cost about $1,700 -
$3,400 and that MRI’s cost between $600 to $1,200 each.  
 
                        In
light of the above, there was certainly enough evidence to support the jury
awarding damages in an amount less than what P’s expert opined was reasonable
and necessary.  In other words, after
weighing the evidence from the entire record, this Court cannot conclude that “the
jury clearly should have reached a different decision” regarding the quantity
of damages awarded.  
 
 
2.    
Alleged
Juror Misconduct
 
P also argues that a new trial is
mandated because of juror misconduct; specifically, that 
the
verdict was an impermissible “quotient verdict,” which is proscribed in CACI
5009: “you may not agree in advance to simply add up the amounts each juror
thinks is right and then, without further deliberations, make the average your
verdict”.  P cites to the Declaration of
Juror Marquette to establish the elements of a quotient verdict.  However, that Declaration is silent as to
whether the jury conducted “further deliberations” on the average obtained, the
failure of which is an essential element to a “quotient verdict.”  That critical element is addressed in the
Declarations of jurors Hindle and Manheim, both of whom declare that such
“further deliberations” did in fact occur. 
Juror Manheim declared that individual proposals for past medical
expenses were taken and written on a white board, and that “thereafter, the
jurors discussed the numbers that they each proposed until they reached an
agreement as to what the final number would be.”  (Manheim Decl. ¶¶ 13-14).  Juror Manheim also recalls that the
foreperson “asked each juror for any objections” to the sums arrived at, and
had even “reopened the discussions when it wasn’t clear there was complete
agreement.”  (Id. ¶ 17).  Juror Manheim specifically rejects the notion
that there was a “prior agreement, at any time, for the jury to be bound by any
set figure(s), method, or calculation(s).” 
(Id. ¶ 12).  He explains
that “the verdict was not reached by compromise or previous agreement by the
jurors but was the result of careful deliberation and lengthy discussion among
the jurors.  I do not believe that any of
the damage awards was based solely on arithmetic calculations (e.g., averages).”  (Id. ¶ 18).  
 
            Juror Hindle confirms that each
juror was asked for their own past damages figures and that an average of those
figures was taken, but only as a preliminary approach to spur further
deliberations:  “Though an average was
ultimately used to determine the proposed amount the plaintiff should be
awarded for past medical expenses, it was a process that everyone agreed was a
reasonable approach after sharing initial viewpoints and subsequent
discussion.” (Hindle Decl. ¶ 5, emphasis added).  Moreover, Juror Hindle also disposes of any
argument that the jury pre-bound itself to an average:  “Everyone was very respectful and receptive of
the opinions of others, no one was coerced to accept the subsequent proposed
approach of taking the average of what each of us thought he deserved, and we
went around the table afterward to ensure that everyone was comfortable
with the proposed amount.”  (Id. ¶
5, emphasis added).  Juror Hindle further
indicates that the foreperson “asked each juror for any objections on the
amounts awarded before entering the final figures on the Special Verdict Form,”
and that when “it wasn’t clear that there was a complete agreement,” the
foreperson “reopened the discussions.” 
(Id. ¶ 5, emphasis added). 
Juror Hindle concludes, as did Juror Manheim, that “[n]one of the damage
awards was based solely on arithmetic calculations (e.g., averages)” but
were rather the results “of careful deliberation and lengthy discussion between
the jurors.”  (Id. ¶ 7, emphasis
added).
 
                        In
light of this record, this Court finds that the jury verdict was not a
“quotient verdict.”  As such, P’s motion
for new trial or additur are both DENIED.
 
 
C.   
D’s
Motion to Strike/Tax Costs
 
D moves to strike or tax Item 16
(“Other”) in P’s Memorandum of Costs for $925.55, 
which
is comprised of costs expended for parking and for the production of 4 trial
binders.  First, with respect to parking
expenses, CCP § 1033.5(a)(3)(C) authorizes travel expenses only for the taking
of depositions.  Since the parking
expenses were not for depositions but for court appearances, this travel
expense is unauthorized.  Moreover,
regular commutation expenses are typically non-compensable costs, and therefore
the $68 in parking expenses requested by P will be taxed in full.  
 
            Second, with respect to the $857.55
in binder expenses sought, this Court finds that the binders containing copies
of the exhibits and FSC pleadings were “reasonably necessary to the conduct of
the litigation” under CCP § 1033.5(c)(2), and will therefore exercise its
discretion in awarding costs for the binders under § 1033.5(c)(4).  However, even in exercising its discretion, this
Court cannot grant prohibited costs such “photocopying charges,” which are
disallowed under CCP § 1033.5(b)(3) “except for exhibits.”  Reviewing this Court’s notes, it appears that
approximately 20 exhibits were introduced into evidence.  Bearing these parameters in mind, this Court
will tax the binder expenses by $457.55 and award P the balance of $400.
 
            In sum, this Court will GRANT
D’s motion to tax Item 16 costs in the amount of $525.55 out of the requested
$925.55, leaving a net cost award for Item 16 of $400.  Adding in the uncontested costs, the total
costs awarded to P is $2,864.96.  
 
 
            III.     ORDER
 
            P’s
motions for JNOV, New Trial or Additur are DENIED and D’s
Motion to Tax Costs is GRANTED in part. 