  Case Number:  24PSCV01626    Hearing Date:   November 25, 2024    Dept:  6 CASE  NAME:  Elsy  Hernandez v. Hyundai Motor America  Defendant’s  Motion to Compel Arbitration  TENTATIVE  RULING  The Court DENIES Defendant’s motion to compel arbitration. Defendant is ordered to file an Answer or responsive pleading within 10 Court days of this Order.              Plaintiff is ordered to give notice  of the Court’s ruling within five calendar days of this order.  BACKGROUND  This is a lemon law case. On May 20, 2024, plaintiff Elsy  Hernandez (Plaintiff) filed this action against defendant Hyundai Motor America  (Defendant) and Does 1 through 10, alleging causes of action for Violation of  Song-Beverly Act – Breach of Express Warranty, Violation of Song-Beverly Act –  Breach of Implied Warranty, and Violation of the Song-Beverly Action section  1793.2.  On June 24, 2024, Defendant moved to compel arbitration. On November  12, 2024, Plaintiff opposed the motion. On November 18, 2024, Defendant  replied.  LEGAL  STANDARD  Parties may be compelled to arbitrate  a dispute upon the court finding that: (1) there was a valid agreement to  arbitrate between the parties; and (2) said agreement covers the controversy or  controversies in the parties’ dispute.¿(Omar v. Ralphs Grocery Co. (2004)¿118  Cal.App.4th 955, 961.) A party moving to compel arbitration has the burden of  establishing the existence of a valid agreement to arbitrate and the party  opposing the petition has the burden of proving, by a preponderance of the  evidence, any fact necessary to its defense. (Banner Entertainment, Inc. v.  Superior Court¿(1998) 62 Cal.App.4th 348, 356-357.) A party seeking to  compel arbitration meets their initial burden of establishing the existence of  a valid arbitration agreement by attaching a copy to the motion or petition to  compel arbitration. (Espejo v. Southern California  Permanente Medical Group (2016) 246 Cal.App.4th 1047, 1060.)  “California  has a strong public policy in favor of arbitration and any doubts regarding the  arbitrability of a dispute are resolved in favor of arbitration.” (Coast  Plaza Doctors Hospital v. Blue Cross of California (2000) 83 Cal.App.4th  677, 686.) “This strong policy has resulted in the general rule that  arbitration should be upheld unless it can be said with assurance that an  arbitration clause is not susceptible to an interpretation covering the  asserted dispute.” (Ibid. [internal quotations omitted].) This  is in accord with the liberal federal policy favoring arbitration agreements  under the Federal Arbitration Act (“FAA”), which governs all agreements to  arbitrate in contracts involving interstate commerce. (9 U.S.C. § 2, et  seq.; Higgins v. Superior Court (2006) 140 Cal.App.4th 1238, 1247.)  PRELIMINARY  ISSUES  Defendant submitted new evidence on reply. Generally,  new evidence is not permitted on reply unless it fills in gaps in the evidence  created by the opposing party’s opposition and is not raising new substantive  issues for the first time; otherwise, a further hearing would be required to  permit the opposing party to respond. (Jay v. Mahaffey (2013) 218  Cal.App.4th 1522, 1537-1538.) None of the new evidence submitted on reply fills  in any gaps of Plaintiff’s arguments. Accordingly, the Court declines to  consider such evidence.  OBJECTIONS              The Court SUSTAINS  Plaintiff’s Objection Numbers 2 and 4 for lack of foundation and authentication.  The Court OVERRULES the remaining objections.  REQUESTS FOR JUDICIAL NOTICE              The Court GRANTS the  parties’ requests for judicial notice. (Evid. Code § 452, subds. (a)-(d).)  However, the Court takes judicial notice of the  foregoing documents only as to “the existence, content and authenticity of  public records and other specified documents”; it does not take judicial notice  of the truth of the factual matters asserted in those documents. (Dominguez v. Bonta (2022) 87 Cal.App.5th 389, 400.)  DISCUSSION  FAA v. CAA“[T]he FAA's procedural  provisions do not apply unless the contract contains a choice-of-law clause  expressly incorporating them. [T]he question is not whether the parties adopted  the CAA’s  procedural provisions: The state's procedural statutes apply by default because  Congress intended the comparable FAA sections to apply in federal court. The  question, therefore, is whether the parties expressly incorporated the FAA’s procedural  provisions into their agreements.” (Victrola 89, LLC v. Jaman  Properties 8 LLC (2020) 46 Cal.App.5th 337, 345, internal citations  omitted and italics in original.) “[P]revious  cases have held that when an arbitration agreement provides that its  ‘enforcement’ shall be governed by California law, the [CAA] governs a party's  motion to compel arbitration. It follows that when an agreement provides that  its ‘enforcement’ shall be governed by the FAA, the FAA governs a party's  motion to compel arbitration.” (Id., at p. 346.)  Neither of the warranties Defendant submitted for this motion  contain language indicating that the enforcement of the arbitration agreements  contained within those warranties is governed by the FAA. (Ameripour Decl.,  Exs. 2, 3.)[1] Accordingly, the CAA applies by default and governs this motion. (Victrola  89, LLC v. Jaman Properties 8 LLC, supra, 46 Cal.App.5th at p. 345.)  Existence of Valid Arbitration Agreement  Defendant moves to compel arbitration based on language in its  Certified Used Vehicle Limited Warranty (Limited Warranty) and its Owner’s  Handbook & Warranty Information (collectively, the Warranties). (Ameripour  Decl., Exs. 2-3.) Having provided copies of the Warranties containing the  arbitration language, Defendant has met its initial moving burden in  establishing the existence of an arbitration agreement. (Espejo v. Southern  California Permanente Medical Group, supra, 246 Cal.App.4th at p. 1060.) The  burden now shifts to Plaintiff. (Gamboa v. Ne. Cmty. Clinic (2021) 72 Cal.App.5th 158, 167 (Gamboa).)  Plaintiff objected to the Warranties on the grounds  that they, among other things, lack foundation and authentication, and the  Court sustained Plaintiff’s objections on those grounds. The declaration of Ali  Ameripour does not provide facts demonstrating personal knowledge regarding the  Warranties or whether Plaintiff saw or signed the arbitration agreements in the  Warranties. (See Ameripour Decl., ¶¶ 4-5; Gamboa, supra, 72  Cal.App.5th at p. 169 [objection to declaration for lack of foundation and  authentication on motion to compel arbitration affirmed on appeal where  declarant did not provide foundational facts].) The fact that motions to compel  arbitration do not necessarily require authentication of the arbitration  agreement with the moving papers does not mean Defendant may avoid the  foundation requirement altogether; rather, it must be established once the opposing  party challenges the validity of the arbitration agreement, which Plaintiff has  done here. (See id. at p. 167.) Plaintiff also challenged the validity  of the arbitration agreements by Plaintiff stating that Plaintiff never signed  any post-sale arbitration agreement like the ones Defendant submitted for this  motion. (Hernandez Decl., ¶ 6.) Plaintiff also states that Plaintiff was never  informed or given notice about any agreement to arbitrate warranty claims in  the Warranties or that Plaintiff had 30 days to opt out from the arbitration  agreements after purchasing the subject vehicle. (Hernandez Decl., ¶¶ 4-5.)  Additionally, the Court notes that the Limited  Warranty appears to have been created in 2023, i.e., the year after Plaintiff  purchased the subject vehicle, based on the copyright notices at the bottom of  each page indicating the year 2023. (Compl., ¶ 8; Ameripour Decls., Exs. 2, 3.)  Defendant appears to be referencing a different set of written warranties other  than those Plaintiff may have received when purchasing the subject vehicle. Defendant’s  reply also presented no new evidence to lay the foundation for the arbitration  agreements either or otherwise prove their validity by a preponderance of the  evidence. (See generally, Reply; Gamboa, supra, 72 Cal.App.5th at pp.  164-165.) Thus, the Warranties are inadmissible and Defendant has failed to  establish the existence of a valid arbitration agreement between the parties. This  by itself is sufficient to deny the motion.  Moreover, even if the Warranties were admissible, they  would not be sufficient to demonstrate the existence of an arbitration  agreement between the parties. Defendant did not present any evidence  demonstrating that Plaintiff signed or accepted the arbitration agreements  contained in the Warranties before or at the time of purchasing the subject vehicle.  (Ameripour Decl., Exs. 2, 3.) Defendant did not present any evidence that Plaintiff  even received the terms of the arbitration agreements in the Warranties before purchasing  the subject vehicle. (Ameripour Decl., Exs. 2, 3.) The fact the complaint  alleges Plaintiff received a written warranty from Defendant in connection with  the purchase of the subject vehicle is not the same as saying that Plaintiff  accepted the arbitration agreements in the Warranties, nor is it the same as  saying that Plaintiff received the terms of the arbitration agreements before  purchasing the subject vehicle. (Compl., ¶¶ 4, 8.)              Based on the foregoing, the Court  DENIES the motion and declines to consider the parties’ remaining arguments..  CONCLUSION  The Court DENIES Defendant’s motion to compel arbitration. Defendant is ordered to file an Answer or responsive pleading within 10 Court days of this Order.              Plaintiff is ordered to give notice  of the Court’s ruling within five calendar days of this order.     