 Case Number:  23CHCV01316    Hearing Date:   April 5, 2024    Dept:  F43 Dept. F43
Date: 4-5-24
Case #23CHCV01316,
Carmen Cristina Oliveros-Lopez vs. American Honda Motor Co., Inc., et al.
Trial Date: N/A
 
PETITION TO COMPEL ARBITRATION
 
MOVING PARTY: Defendant
American Honda Motor Co.
RESPONDING
PARTY: Plaintiff Carmen Cristina Oliveros-Lopez
 
RELIEF
REQUESTED
Defendant is
requesting that the Court compel the case to arbitration and stay the action
 
RULING: Petition
to compel arbitration is denied.
 
SUMMARY OF
ACTION
On May 4, 2023,
Plaintiff Carmen Cristina Oliveros-Lopez (Plaintiff) filed this action against
Defendant American Honda Motor Co. (Defendant) for causes of action related to violations
of the Song-Beverly Warranty Act. Plaintiff has alleged three causes of action
for violation of the Song-Beverly Act against Defendant Honda American Motor
Co. and one cause of action for negligence per se against the repair facility,
Defendant Honda Lancaster. The dealership from which Plaintiff leased the
vehicle, Galpin Honda, is not named in Plaintiff’s complaint.
 
On February 22,
2024, Defendant filed this petition to compel arbitration and stay the action.
Plaintiff opposes.
 
Defendant’s
Request for Judicial Notice: With Defendant’s petition, Defendant has requested
that the Court take judicial notice of Plaintiff’s complaint. The Court takes
judicial notice of this document.
 
Plaintiff’s
Request for Judicial Notice: With Plaintiff’s opposition, Plaintiff has
requested that the Court take judicial notice of three court cases. The Court
takes judicial notice of these cases.
 
Plaintiff’s
evidentiary objection: Plaintiff has objected to the paragraph in the
declaration of Andres F. Michel (Defendant’s counsel) that explains what the
MVLA is that this attached to the Declaration of Dedrick Manigo. (Michel Decl.,
¶ 2.) Plaintiff objects to this paragraph on the basis that it lacks foundation
or personal knowledge, and is irrelevant and misleading. The Court sustains Plaintiff’s
objection. Defendant’s attorney did not draft or sign this document, so he
lacks personal knowledge about the document. Plaintiff also objects to the
entirety of Michel’s declaration. The Court overrules Plaintiff’s objection to
the entire declaration.
 
Defendant’s Evidentiary
Objections to the Declaration of Plaintiff:
            Sustained: 1
            Overruled: 2 (paragraph is not in
Plaintiff’s declaration), 3, 4
 
ANALYSIS
California law
incorporates many of the basic policy objectives contained in the Federal
Arbitration Act, including a presumption in favor of arbitrability. (Engalla
v. Permanente Medical Group, Inc. (1997) 15 Cal.4th 951, 971-972.) The
petitioner bears the burden of proving the existence of a valid arbitration
agreement by the preponderance of the evidence, the party opposing the petition
then bears the burden of proving by a preponderance of the evidence any fact
necessary to demonstrate that there should be no enforcement of the agreement,
and the trial court sits as a trier of fact to reach a final determination on
the issue. (Rosenthal v. Great Western Financial Securities Corp. (1996)
14 Cal.4th 394, 413.) The Court is empowered by CCP § 1281.2 to compel parties
to arbitrate disputes pursuant to an agreement to do so.   
 
CCP § 1281.2
states that: 
“The court shall order the petitioner and
the respondent to arbitrate the controversy if it determines that an agreement
to arbitrate the controversy exists, unless it determines that: 
(a)
The right to compel arbitration has been waived by the petitioner;
or  
(b)
Grounds exist for the revocation of the agreement.  
(c) A party to the arbitration agreement
is also a party to a pending court action or special proceeding with a third
party, arising out of the same transaction or series of related transactions
and there is a possibility of conflicting rulings on a common issue of law or
fact. For purposes of this section, a pending court action or special
proceeding includes an action or proceeding initiated by the party refusing to
arbitrate after the petition to compel arbitration has been filed, but on or
before the date of the hearing on the petition. This subdivision shall not be
applicable to an agreement to arbitrate disputes as to the professional
negligence of a health care provider made pursuant to Section 1295.” (CCP §
1281.2.)
 
The Court
denies the petition on the merits. Though Plaintiff makes arguments regarding
the conscionability of the agreement, the main dispute rests on the fact that
Defendant was not a signatory to the arbitration agreement in question, but
Defendant argues that it should be able to compel arbitration by virtue of the
doctrine of equitable estoppel and Defendant’s claim that it is a named third-party
beneficiary of the arbitration agreement.
 
“Under that
doctrine [of equitable estoppel] …a nonsignatory defendant may invoke an
arbitration clause to compel a signatory plaintiff to arbitrate its claims when
the causes of action against the nonsignatory are intimately founded in and
intertwined with the underlying contract obligations.” (JSM Tuscany, LLC v.
Superior Ct. (2011) 193 Cal.App.4th 1222, 1237, quoting Boucher v. All
Title Co. (2005) 127 Cal.App.4th 262, 271 and Goldman v. KPMG, LLP
(2009) 173 Cal.App.4th 209, 217–18 (internal quotation marks omitted).) The
sine qua non for application of equitable estoppel as the basis for allowing a
nonsignatory to enforce an arbitration clause is, “that the claims plaintiff
asserts against the nonsignatory must be dependent upon, or founded in and inextricably
intertwined with, the underlying contractual obligations of the agreement
containing the arbitration clause.” (Goldman, supra, 173
Cal.App.4th at 217–18; accord, JSM Tuscany, LLC, supra, 193
Cal.App.4th at 1237.) “The fundamental point is that a party is not entitled to
make use of [a contract containing an arbitration clause] as long as it worked
to her advantage, then attempt to avoid its application in defining the forum
in which her dispute . . . should be resolved.” (Jensen v. U-Haul Co. of
Cal. (2017) 18 Cal.App.5th 295, 306, quoting NORCAL Mut. Ins. Co. v.
Newton (2000) 84 Cal.App.4th 64, 84 (internal quotation marks omitted).)
Courts examine the facts alleged in the operative complaint to determine
whether equitable estoppel applies. (Goldman, supra, 173
Cal.App.4th at 229–30.) 
 
In one case, an
arbitration agreement that was in the retail sales agreement was found to
extend to a nonsignatory car manufacturer because “the arbitration provision in
this case provides for arbitration of disputes that include third parties so
long as the dispute pertains to the condition of the vehicle.” (Felisilda v.
FCA US LLC (2020) 53 Cal.App.5th 640, 648.) 
 
The language of
the arbitration provision in the Motor Vehicle Lease Agreement (MVLA) mentions “Honda”.
Whether is refers to Galpin Honda, the dealership from which Plaintiff leased
the vehicle and which signed the MVLA, or Defendant American Honda Motor Co.,
is not immediately evident. The agreement states in relevant part as
follows: 
“PLEASE READ THIS ARBITRATION PROVISION
CAREFULLY TO UNDERSTAND YOUR RIGHTS. BY ELECTING ARBITRATION, YOU AGREE THAT
ANY CLAIM THAT YOU MAY HAVE IN THE FUTURE MUST BE RESOLVED THROUGH BINDING
ARBITRATION…
By signing the Arbitration Consent, YOU
elect to have disputes resolved by arbitration. YOU, HONDA or any
involved third party may pursue a Claim. ‘Claim’ means any dispute between YOU,
HONDA, or any involved third party relating to your account, this Lease,
or our relationship, including any application, the Vehicle, its performance
and any representations, omissions or warranties…”
(Manigo Decl.,
Ex. A.)
 
The last
paragraph of the arbitration provision indicates that “American Hondo Motor
Co., Inc.” is, in fact, included under the umbrella term “Honda”:
“HONDA means Lessor, Dealer, Honda
Lease Trust, American Honda Finance Corporation (AHFC), American Honda Motor
Co., Inc., Honda Finance Exchange. Inc., Acura Financial Services (AFS), Honda
Financial Services (HFS), HVT, Inc., their parents, subsidiaries, predecessors,
successors, assignees, and officers, employees, representatives and agents. YOU
means Lessee and Co-Lessee to this Lease.”
(Manigo Decl.,
Ex. A.)
 
Now the
question remains as to whether Defendant may invoke the MVLA as a named third
party beneficiary.
 
This language
of the agreement is somewhat similar to the language in Felisilda, which
allowed the defendant car manufacturer to compel arbitration as to the
condition of the vehicle. The arbitration agreement in the current case states
that Plaintiff or “Honda” may pursue a Claim related to the Vehicle or any
warranties. It is worth noting that the plaintiff in Felisilda had sued
both the dealership and the manufacturer for Song-Beverly causes of action,
which is not the case here. Plaintiff has only sued Defendant American Honda,
as the manufacturer, for the Song-Beverly causes of action. The dealership that
sold Plaintiff the vehicle and signed the MVLA with the arbitration provision, Galpin
Honda, is not a party to this action.
 
As the Court of
Appeal has observed, “[w]e agree with Ngo that the sales contracts
reflect no intention to benefit a vehicle manufacturer…nothing in the sale
contracts or their arbitration provision offers any direct “benefit” to the
[manufacturer].” (Ochoa v. Ford Motor Company – Ford Motor Warranty Cases
(2023) 89 Cal.App.5th 1324, 1338, review granted July 19, 2023 (S279969), pursuant
to Rule of Court 8.115(e)(3), the Supreme Court ordered that while pending
review the decision could be cited as persuasive authority and to establish a
conflict in authority that would allow trial courts to choose between
conflicting appellate decisions.) The manufacturer’s “claim that it ‘would
benefit from utilizing arbitration as an efficient means of dispute resolution
as an efficient means of dispute resolution’ (italics added) if treated
as a third party beneficiary begs the question: does the arbitration provision
directly benefit [the manufacturer]? The answer is patently ‘no.’ Its direct
benefits are expressly limited to those persons who might rely on it to avoid
proceeding in court – the purchaser, the dealer, the dealer’s employees,
agents, successors or assigns. [The manufacturer] is none of these.” (Id.)
 
Ochoa is
distinguishable from Felisilda because both the dealership and
manufacturer were sued in Felisilda, while only the manufacturer was
sued in Ochoa. In this case, the manufacturer and the repair facility
(Defendant Honda Lancaster) are being sued. The dealership, Galpin Honda, is
not being sued. Therefore, Ochoa would be more applicable to this case
than Felisilda. As discussed in further detail below, as in Ochoa,
the complaint as to Defendant American Honda Motor Co. is not based on the
lease, which included an express disclaimer of any warranties as to the dealer.
The complaint is based on the warranties given by Defendant American Honda
Motor Co. 
 
Though
Defendant American Honda Motor Co. is a named beneficiary of the arbitration
agreement in the MVLA, the agreement is not concerned with warranties given by
Defendant, which is the basis upon which Plaintiff has sued. The MVLA is
chiefly concerned with the financing of the vehicle and how Plaintiff intends
to pay for it. In fact, Section 11 of the MVLA, “Warranties”, states that “If
the Vehicle is new, the Vehicle is covered by the manufacturer’s standard new
car warranty.” (Manigo Decl., Ex. A.) The MVLA goes on to state “Lessor makes
no express warranties or representations as to the vehicle’s (or any of its
party or accessories) condition, merchantability, suitability or fitness for a
particular purpose and lessor makes no other representations or warranties
whatsoever.” (Id.)
 
By disclaiming
any warranties, that suggests that the MVLA is separate and distinct from
express warranties covered by the Song-Beverly Act, meaning that, even though
the arbitration agreement mentions “warranties”, such actions under those
warranties would not be covered by the arbitration agreement in the MVLA. Because
the manufacturer warranty obligations arise independently from the MVLA, they
are not so intertwined that this action should be governed by the arbitration
provision in the MVLA. (See JSM Tuscany, LLC, 193 Cal.App.4th 1222.)
 
Plaintiff also made
arguments concerning the conscionability of the arbitration agreement. However,
because the Court is denying the petition on the basis that actions for breach
of warranty under the Song-Beverly Act are not covered by the MVLA, then it is
not necessary for the Court to address the conscionability arguments. The Court
likely would have found the agreement conscionable, however.
 
The petition to
compel arbitration is denied on the basis that the warranty obligations under
the Song-Beverly Act are not inextricably intertwined with the arbitration
agreement in the MVLA.
 
Moving party to
give notice.