 Case Number:  21STCV23520    Hearing Date:   July 16, 2024    Dept:  50  
 
Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
Department 50
 



c&m investment group, ltd.,  
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
HARVEY CHAMPLIN, 
                        Defendant.


Case No.:


21STCV23520




Hearing Date:


July 16, 2024




Hearing Time:


10:00 a.m.




[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: 
 
PLAINTIFFS’
  MOTION TO FILE UNDER SEAL TRIAL BRIEF AND CERTAIN TRIAL EXHIBITS
 



 
Background 
Plaintiffs C&M Investment Group, Ltd. and Karlin Holdings Limited
Partnership (jointly, “Plaintiffs”) filed this action on June 23, 2021 against
Defendant Harvey Champlin, asserting causes of action for (1) intentional
interference with contractual relations and (2) intentional interference with
prospective economic benefit. 
Plaintiffs now move for
an order to seal excerpts of their trial brief and certain trial exhibits. The
motion is unopposed. 
Discussion 
Generally, court records
are presumed to be open unless confidentiality is required by law. (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 2.550, subd. (c).) If the presumption of access
applies, the court may order that a record be filed under seal “if it expressly
finds facts that establish: (1) There exists an
overriding interest that overcomes the right of public access to the record;
(2) The overriding interest supports sealing the record; (3) A substantial
probability exists that the overriding interest will be prejudiced if the
record is not sealed; (4) The proposed sealing is narrowly tailored; and (5) No
less restrictive means exist to achieve the overriding interest.” (Cal. Rules of
Court, rule 2.550, subd. (d).)
Plaintiffs seek to seal
(1) excerpts of their Trial Brief, (2) Trial Exhibit 41 (September 24,
2021 Deposition of Neil Campbell), (3) Trial Exhibit 539 (October 4, 2022
Deposition Transcript of Gary Michelson, M.D.), (4) Trial Exhibit 542
(Cooperation Agreement dated October 13, 2020), (5) Trial Exhibit 543
(Declaration of Lauren Schweitzer in Support of Plaintiffs’ Opposition to
Harvey Champlin’s Motion for Summary Judgment or, in the Alternative, Summary
Adjudication of Issues), and (6) Trial Exhibit 544 (Declaration of Dr. Gary
Karlin Michelson in Support of Plaintiffs’ Opposition to Harvey Champlin’s
Motion for Summary Judgment or, in the Alternative, Summary Adjudication of
Issues) (collectively, the “Sealed Documents.”) (Notice of Motion at p. 1:5-14.)  
Plaintiffs assert that “[t]he Sealed Documents contain confidential
information relating to a settlement agreement (including its terms).” (Schweitzer
Decl., ¶ 4.) Plaintiffs assert that “[t]he Sealed Documents are
quintessentially sensitive, non-public information because they pertain to a
settlement agreement, because making this information public could have
ramifications for Plaintiffs pertaining to potential future deals…” (Schweitzer
Decl., ¶ 5.) Plaintiffs contend that for these
reasons, there is an overriding interest that supports sealing the Sealed
Documents, and there is a substantial probability that this overriding interest
will be prejudiced absent sealing. 
Plaintiffs cite to Monster Energy Co. v.
Schechter (2019) 7 Cal.5th 781,
793, where the California Supreme Court noted that “[t]he privacy of a settlement
is generally understood and accepted in our legal system, which favors
settlement and therefore supports attendant needs for confidentiality. Routine
public disclosure of private settlement terms would chill the parties’
ability in many cases to settle the action before trial. Such a result
runs contrary to the strong public policy of this state favoring settlement of
actions.” (Internal quotations and citations
omitted.) 
As an initial matter,
the Court notes that it is unclear how the redacted excerpts of Plaintiffs’
trial brief “contain confidential information relating to a settlement
agreement.” (Schweitzer Decl., ¶ 4.) Plaintiffs’ instant motion does not appear
to contain any explanation as to how the redacted material pertains to a
purported settlement. 
Plaintiffs also assert
that “the proposed sealing order is narrowly tailored and is the least
restrictive means of protecting Plaintiffs’ overriding interest. The order
seeks to seal only portions of Plaintiffs’ trial brief and a small number of
Trial Exhibits.” (Mot. at p. 4:4-6.) 
However, the Court does not find that Plaintiffs have shown that the entirety
of Trial Exhibits 41, 539, 543, and 544 “contain confidential information
relating to a settlement agreement.” (Schweitzer Decl., ¶ 4.) Plaintiffs do not
appear to identify which portions of these exhibits purportedly relate to a settlement
agreement. Thus, as to Trial Exhibits 41, 539, 543, and 544, the Court does not
find that Plaintiffs have shown that “[t]he proposed sealing is narrowly
tailored.” (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 2.550, subd. (d)(4).) 
As to Trial Exhibit 542, the Court finds that Plaintiffs have shown
that “[t]here exists an overriding
interest that overcomes the right of public access to the record;
(2) The overriding interest supports sealing the record;
(3) A substantial probability exists that the overriding interest will
be prejudiced if the record is not sealed; (4) The proposed sealing is narrowly tailored; and
(5) No less restrictive means exist to achieve the overriding
interest.” (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 2.550, subd. (d).) 
However, it does not appear that Plaintiffs filed public redacted
versions of the subject Trial Exhibits in connection with the instant motion.
Pursuant to California Rules of Court, rule 2.551,
subdivision (b)(5), “[i]f necessary to prevent
disclosure, any motion or application, any opposition, and any supporting
documents must be filed in a public redacted version and lodged in a complete,
unredacted version conditionally under seal. The cover of the redacted version
must identify it as ‘Public--Redacts materials from conditionally sealed
record.’ The cover of the unredacted version must identify it as ‘May Not Be
Examined Without Court Order--Contains material from conditionally sealed
record.’” 
In light of the foregoing, the Court denies
Plaintiffs’ motion. 
Conclusion
Based on the foregoing, the
Court denies Plaintiffs’ motion to seal. 
Plaintiffs are ordered
to give notice of this order.
 
DATED:  July
 16, 2024                                  ________________________________
Hon. Teresa A. Beaudet
Judge, Los Angeles Superior Court