  Case Number:  22CHCV00109    Hearing Date:   April 23, 2024    Dept:  F49    Dept.    F49      Date:    4/23/24     Case    Name: Northbridge Point Homeowners Association v. Crown Construction and    Design, Inc.; Road Runner Masonry, Inc.; and Does 1-100     Case    # 22CHCV00109      LOS ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT NORTH VALLEY DISTRICT DEPARTMENT F49    APRIL 23, 2024    DEMURRER WITH MOTION TO STRIKE  Los Angeles Superior  Court Case # 22CHCV00109    Motion  filed: 7/12/23   MOVING PARTY: Defendants Crown Construction and  Design, Inc. and Road Runner Masonry (“Defendants”) RESPONDING PARTY: Plaintiff Northbridge Point  Homeowners Association (“Plaintiff”) NOTICE: OK    RELIEF  REQUESTED: An  order from this Court sustaining Defendants’ Demurrer to the Second and Fourth  Causes of Action in Plaintiff’s First Amended Complaint.   TENTATIVE  RULING: The demurrer  is SUSTAINED without LEAVE TO AMEND. The motion to strike is GRANTED IN PART.    BACKGROUND   On February 16, 2022, Plaintiff initiated this action  against Defendants Crown Construction and Design, Inc. (“Crown”), Road Runner  Masonry (“Road Runner”) (collectively, “Defendants”), and Does 1 through 100.    Subsequently, on February 28, 2023, Plaintiff filed her  operative First Amended Complaint (“FAC”), alleging the following causes of  action: (1) Breach of Contract (Construction Agreement) against Crown and Does  1-50; (2) Negligence against Crown and Does 1-50; (3) Negligent Misrepresentation  against Crown and Does 1-50; and (4) Negligence against Road Runner and Does  51-100.   On July 12, 2023, Defendants filed the instant Demurrer (the  “Demurrer”) with Motion to Strike (the “Motion”). On April 10, 2024, Plaintiff  filed its Opposition. Subsequently, Defendants replied on April 16, 2024.              ANALYSIS    “It is black letter law that a demurrer tests  the legal sufficiency of the allegations in a complaint” (Lewis v. Safeway,  Inc. (2015) 235 Cal.App.4th 385, 388.)  A general demurrer is proper, and typically  used, where the plaintiff fails to allege “facts sufficient to constitute a  cause of action.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subd. (e); Cloud v. Northrop  Grumman Corp. (1998) 67 Cal.App.4th 995, 1004.)   “The  sufficiency of a cause of action is evaluated by presuming all of the material  factual allegations in the complaint are true.” (Aubry v. TriCity Hospital  Dist. (1992) 2 Cal 4th 962, 966 – 967 (Aubry).) In ruling on a  demurrer, a court may consider facts that are properly subject to judicial  notice.” (Arroyo v. Plosay, 225 Cal. App. 4th 279.)  In ruling on a demurrer, the allegations of the complaint must be liberally  construed, with a view to substantial justice between the parties. (Glennen  v. Allergan, Inc. (2016) 247 Cal.App.4th 1, 6.) Nevertheless, while  "[a] demurrer admits all facts properly pleaded, [it does] not [admit]  contentions, deductions or conclusions of law or fact." (George v.  Automobile Club of Southern California (2011) 201 Cal.App.4th 1112, 1120,  135.) Additionally, “[a] complaint otherwise good on its face is subject to  demurrer when facts judicially noticed render it defective.” (Evans v. City  of Berkeley (2006) 38 Cal.4th 1, 6.)   “It is error for a trial court to sustain a demurrer  when the plaintiff has stated a cause of action under any possible legal  theory. (Barquis v. Merchants Collection Assn. (1972) 7 Cal.3d 94, 103.)  And it is an abuse of discretion to sustain a demurrer without leave to amend  if the plaintiff shows there is a reasonable possibility any defect identified  by the defendant can be cured by amendment. (Blank v. Kirwan, supra, 39  Cal.3d at 318.)” Aubry, supra, 2 Cal. 4th 962, 967.)   A.     Meet and  Confer                          A party filing a demurrer “shall  meet and confer in person or by telephone with the party who filed the pleading  that is subject to demurrer for the purpose of determining whether an agreement  can be reached that would resolve the objections to be raised in the demurrer.”  (Code Civ. Proc., section 430.41(a).) A failure to meet and confer does not  constitute grounds to sustain or overrule a demurrer. (See Code Civ. Proc.,  sections 430.41 (a)(4).)   Defendants’ counsel attests  that on June 20, 2023, the parties telephonically met and conferred regarding  the Demurrer and Motion to Strike. (Cohen Decl., ¶ 3.) As to both the Demurrer  and the Motion, the parties were unable to agree on the remaining issues. (Id.,  ¶ 4.)   Based on these actions, the  Court concludes that the meet and confer requirements have been sufficiently met.   B.      Second Cause  of Action – Negligence against Crown and Does 1-50               “The elements of a cause of  action for negligence are duty, breach, causation, and damages.” (Melton v.  Boustred (2010) 183 Cal.App.4th 521, 529).    ‘Whether a  defendant owes a duty of care is a question of law.  Its existence depends upon the foreseeability of the risk and a weighing of  policy considerations for and against imposition of liability.’ [Citation.]” (Burgess v. Superior Court (1992) 2 Cal.4th 1064, 1072.)   “[A]” breach of contract  is tortious only when some independent duty arising from tort law is violated.” (Applied Equipment, (1994)  7 Cal.4th 503, 515 (Applied Equipment).)   In Erlich v. Menezes  (1999) 21 Cal.4th 543 (Erlich), the Supreme Court of California again reaffirmed  its previous decisions detailing the reasons for denying tort recovery in  contract breach cases. These include the differing objective underlying tort  and contract breach, the importance of predictability in assuring commercial  stability in contractual dealings, the potential for converting contract breach  into a tort with accompanying punitive damage recovery, and the preference for  legislative action in affording appropriate remedies. (Id., at 553.) The  Supreme Court summarized that “tort damages have been permitted in contract  cases where a breach of duty directly causes physical injury [Citation]; for  breach of the covenant of good faith and fair dealing in insurance contracts  [Citation]; for wrongful discharge in violation of fundamental public policy;  or where the contract was fraudulently induced,” emphasizing “the duty that  gives rise to tort liability is either completely independent of the contract  or arises from conduct which is both intentional and intended to harm.” (Ibid.)     As a preliminary issue,  Plaintiff contends that the Erlich ruling is limited solely to cases of  tort damage involving emotional distress. However, the Court disagrees with  this interpretation. The legal principle as outlined in both Applied  Equipment and Erlich provide clear guidance on the distinctions  between tort and contract law, applicable to instances where the same wrongful  act is alleged, irrespective of specific type of tort claim being asserted.  Consequently, the Court concludes that these principles are directly  instructive in determining the boundaries between tort and contract claims in  this case.   Defendants argue that the  FAC’s Second Cause of Action for Negligence fails to allege any independent  duty outside of the parties’ contract. Moreover, they assert that Plaintiff  does not claim that Defendants’ alleged negligence in breaching the contract  resulted in damage to any personal injuries or to Plaintiff’s other properties  that were not covered by the contractual obligations. (Dem, at 5-6.)   Moreover, Plaintiff, in its  Opposition, contends that “accompanying every contract is a common-law duty to  perform with care, skill, reasonable experience, and faithfulness the thing  agreed to be done, and a negligent failure to observe any of these conditions  is a tort.” Plaintiff supports this assertion by referencing case law,  including North American Chemical Co. v. Superior Court (1997) 59  Cal.App.4th 764, 774 (North American Chemical).   In Erlich, supra,  although reversing the Court of Appeal’s ruling in finding tort damages, the  Supreme Court of California recognized the lower court’s observation of the  legal principal stated in North American Chemical, that “the same  wrongful act may constitute both a breach of contract and an invasion  of an interest protected by the law of torts, [Citation.]” (Id., at  551.) However, the Supreme Court did not discuss the application of this  principle in the North America Chemical case.    Upon reviewing the Northen  American Chemical case, the Court observes that the Court of Appeal based  its reasoning on two precedents: Eads v. Marks (1952) 39 Cal.2d 807 (Eads),  and Allred v. Bekins Wide World Van Services (1975) 45 Cal.App.3d 984 (Allred),  both of which exhibited fact patterns consistent with the limitations as  outlined in Erlich.    In Eads, supra, the  plaintiff’s parents had contracted with the defendant creamery for home milk  delivery. Special instructions were given to defendant regarding the  placement of the milk bottle due to plaintiff’s young age. The defendant  negligently failed to follow these instructions resulting in the plaintiff’s  injury. (Id., at 809.) The North American Chemical court highlighted  that “It has been well established in this state that if the cause of action arises from a breach of  a promise set forth in the contract, the action is ex contractu but if it  arises from a breach of duty growing out of the contract it is ex  delicto....’ [Citation.][Italics in original.] Where the cause of action arises  from the breach of a contractual duty, the action is delictual notwithstanding  that it also involves a breach of contract. [Citation.]” Notably, the  special instructions in Eads created a tort-protected interest that,  combined with the physical damage suffered by the plaintiff, extended beyond  the mere contractual duty of milk itself.    Similarly, in Allred,  supra, the contract involved the defendant transporting the plaintiff’s  personal belongs back to the United States. The defendant packed the plaintiff’s  property using rancid and contaminated straw, which led to damages to  plaintiff’s property and personal injury to the plaintiff and her husband. (Id.,  987-989.)    Here, Plaintiff alleges that  it entered into an agreement with Defendant Crown for the tasks including the  demolition of damaged concrete, installation of new concrete, addition of  drains in the pool deck area, movement of concrete tables, and installation of  deco seal. (FAC, ¶ 14.) The FAC also details a list of purported damages:  excessive cracking of the pool deck beyond  normal expectations; one of the skimmers was raised by approximately 3/8”,  which constitute in an injury hazard; the perimeter of the deck is lifting at  the transition to the coping and causing a separation of the newly applied  Dek-O Seal; there is concrete at the bottom of the small pool which cannot be  removed without leaving some marks in the new plaster; the pool decks are  showing signs of permanent discoloration; the jacuzzi deck area and jacuzzi  have significant discoloration; the inside diameter of the pickets of the  perimeter fencing exceeding 4”; and improperly placed wheelchair kicker at the  bottom of handrail to the pool ramp, which was set with clearance for water  flow. (Id., ¶ 16.)   Distinct from the situations  in Eads and Allred, the damages alleged here clearly arise from a breach of a promise detailed in the contract, thus categorized as  ex contractu rather than ex delicto. Plaintiff  does not assert that Defendants violated an independent legal duty, i.e., an  interest protected by tort law outside the contractual obligation.  Additionally, Plaintiff’s pleadings do not claim tort damage where a breach of  duty directly causes physical injury.   Furthermore, consistent with  the limitations on tort damages arising from breach of contract as outlined in Erlich,  Plaintiff’s FAC does not allege any intentional conducts by Defendants,  purposeful breach of the covenant of good faith and fair dealing arising from  fiduciary duties between the parties, wrongful discharge in violation of  fundamental public policy, or fraudulent formation of the contract.  Consequently, by applying the established legal principle in Supreme Court  cases such as Applied Equipment Corp. and Erlich, the Court  concludes that tort recovery is unavailable based on Plaintiff’s allegation of  negligent breach of contract.   Given the lack of sufficient  factual pleading on the existence of a legal duty independent of the contract,  Plaintiff’s allegations fail to constitute the cause of action. (See Code Civ.  Proc., § 430.10, subd. (e).)   Therefore, the Court  SUSTAINS without LEAVE TO AMEND the Demurrer as to the Second Cause of Action.     C.     Fourth Cause  of Action – Negligence against Road Runner and Does 51-100   The  FAC alleges that Defendants Road Runner and Crown entered into a written  agreement, under which Road Runner agreed to replace the concrete pool deck,  and that “Road Runner knew that the Project was being done for the benefit of  Plaintiff and owed a duty of care to Plaintiff.” (FAC, ¶ 50.)   Under  Civil Code section 1559, “A contract, made expressly for the benefit of a third  person, may be enforced by him at any time before the parties thereto rescind  it.” Consequently,  Plaintiff may enforce the  contract between itself and Crown against Road Runner as a third-party  beneficiary.    However,  despite this contractual relationship, Plaintiff fails to state a legal duty sufficient  to support a cause of action for Negligence, as mere breach of contract does  not sufficiently support an action in tort. (Erlich, supra, 21  Cal.4th at 551.)   Following  the reasoning applied to the Second Cause of Action, the Court SUSTAINS without  LEAVE TO AMEND the Demurrer as to the Fourth Cause of Action.    D.     Motion to  Strike   The court may, upon a  motion, or at any time in its discretion, and upon terms it deems proper,  strike any irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted in any pleading.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 436, subd. (a).) The court may also strike all or any part  of any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of this state, a  court rule, or an order of the court. (Id.,  § 436, subd. (b).) The grounds for a motion to strike are that the pleading has  irrelevant, false, or improper matter, or has not been drawn or filed in  conformity with laws. (Id. § 436.)  The grounds for moving to strike must appear on the face of the pleading or by  way of judicial notice. (Id. § 437.)   In  their Motion to Strike, Defendants move to strike the following portions from  the FAC:   (1)                FAC,  paragraph 15 (portion): “During the course of CROWN’s construction, the  Association’s Board Members identified problems with CROWN’s workmanship and,  at that time, CROWN appeared to show a willingness to take steps to remediate  the problems. CROWN claimed that some of those problems, such as deck  discoloration, would improve over time after project completion.”   (2)                FAC,  paragraph 17 (portion): “In correspondence dated December 9, 2020, CROWN noted increased  staining since its last inspection. It stated, ‘We can NOT do anything about  the staining and hoping that it will diminish in time once the soil underneath  the slabs will warm up or will have less moisture. Timing is unknown.’ The  CROWN letter acknowledged the presence of hair line cracks and notes that more  hair line cracks are likely to occur in the future. CROWN noted: ‘Again, there  is NOTHING that could be done about that and unfortunately it is very natural  for concrete.’ The CROWN letter concluded that it would address elevated  sections of concrete around the pool and spa areas and indicated that it would  show the ‘HOA members the acceptable and unacceptable elevations of the  concrete prior to any replacement/repairs.’”   (3)                FAC,  paragraph 18: “The Board rejected the minimal repairs that were outlined by  CROWN in its December 9th correspondence  because they did not satisfactorily address the Association’s concerns.”   (4)                FAC,  paragraph 20 (portion): “The letter demanded that CROWN tender Association’s  claim to its insurers.”   (5)                FAC,  paragraph 21: “On September 29, 2021, the Association’s legal counsel sent  correspondence to CROWN which indicated that the Association would be moving  forward with repairs, but in a final effort to avoid litigation, wished to  contact CROWN’s liability insurer. The letter demanded that CROWN provide its  liability insurance information by October 6, 2021.”   (6)                FAC,  paragraph 23: “… the association has incurred significant attorneys’ fees … in  attempting to obtain Defendants’ compliance with the Contract ….”   (7)                FAC,  paragraph 30 (portion): “… loss of use, and other consequential … damages ….”   (8)                FAC, Prayer, paragraph 7: “For reasonable attorney’s fees.”   i.                     Request  for Attorney’s Fees   “[u]nder the American Rule, as a general proposition each  party must pay his own attorney fees. This concept is embodied in [Code Civ. Proc., §] 1021, which  provides that each party is to bear his own attorney fees unless  a statute or the agreement of the parties provides otherwise.” Gray v. Don Miller &  Associates, Inc. (1984)  35 Cal. 3d 498, 504.)   Here,  Plaintiff acknowledges that it has agreed to strike the references to attorney  fees, during the meet and confer process.    Consequently,  the Court GRANTS without LEAVE TO AMEND the Motion to Strike FAC, paragraph 23  (portion) and Prayer for Relief, paragraph 7, as referenced above.   ii.                   Request  for Special Damages   Unlike  general damages, special damages are those losses that do not arise directly  and inevitably from any similar breach of any similar agreement. Instead, they  are secondary or derivative losses arising from circumstances that are  particular to the contract or to the parties. Special damages are recoverable  if the special or particular circumstances from which they arise were actually  communicated to or known by the breaching party (a subjective test) or were  matters of which the breaching party should have been aware at the time of  contracting (an objective test). ... Special damages ‘will not be presumed from  the mere breach’ but represent loss that ‘occurred by reason of injuries  following from’ the breach. ... Special damages are among the losses that are  foreseeable and proximately caused by the breach of a contract. (Civ. Code, §  3300.) (Lewis Jorge Construction Management, Inc. v. Pomona Unified School  Dist. (2004) 34 Cal.4th 960, 967–969, most citations omitted.)   Defendants  contend that Plaintiff’s FAC contains no allegations that amount to  contemplation of the parties nor does the agreement allege any such by the  parties relating to any “loss of use” or “consequential damages.” (Mot., at 6.)   The Court notes that the FAC alleges  only in paragraph 30 that “As a direct and proximate result of Defendants’  breach of the Contract, Plaintiff has and will be damaged in that it will have  to pay to repair the defects in an amount yet unknown, including retaining  another contractor to evaluate the work to be performed and to perform the  services for which Defendants failed to perform, together with delay, loss of  use, and other consequential and incidental damages, all which exceed the  minimum jurisdictional amount of this Court. In addition, Plaintiff has been  damaged because it will now spend additional funds above what this project  should have cost had Defendants performed their work in a reasonable and proper  manner.” However, there is no allegation that the damages were “actually  communicated to or known by the breaching party, Defendants” as mandated by  established law to implicate recoverable special damages.    Plaintiff correctly notes that ““[E]ach evidentiary fact that might eventually form  part of the plaintiff’s proof need not be alleged,” citing C.A. v. William  S. Hart Union High School Dist. (2012) 53 Cal.4th 861, 872. However, this  notion does not excuse the absence of a required allegation, as opposed to the  insufficiency of evidentiary facts. When the Court reviews a motion to strike, it  examines the allegations that “appear on the face of the pleading or by way of judicial notice.” (See  Code Civ., Proc., § 437(a).)   Consequently, the Court GRANTS with LEAVE TO AMEND the Motion to Strike FAC,  paragraph 30 (portion) as referenced above.   iii.                 Violation  of Evidence Codes   Defendants move to strike the several  portions of the FAC based on violations of Evidence Codes section 1151, 1152,  and 1155, arguing that legally inadmissible matters are irrelevant or improper  matter inserted in any pleading, thus warranting their removal. (Mot., at 6,  Reply, at 3.)   Under  Evidence Code section 1151, “[w]hen, after the occurrence of  an event, remedial or precautionary measures are taken, which, if taken previously, would have  tended to make the event less likely to occur, evidence of such subsequent  measures is inadmissible to prove negligence or culpable conduct in  connection with the event.”               FAC, paragraph 15 (portion),  states: “During the course of CROWN’s construction, the Association’s Board  Members identified problems with CROWN’s workmanship and, at that time, CROWN  appeared to show a willingness to take steps to remediate the problems. CROWN  claimed that some of those problems, such as deck discoloration, would improve  over time after project completion.”               However,  the Court finds that FAC paragraph 15 does not allege subsequent remedial  measures, but rather actions taken “during the cause of ... construction,” and  thus not violate Evidence Code section 1151.               Therefore,  the Court DENIES the Motion to Strike FAC, paragraph 15 (portion) as referenced  above.               Under  Evidence Code section 1152, “[e]vidence that a person has, in  compromise … furnished or offered  or promised to furnish any money or any other thing, act, or service to another  who has sustained or will sustain or claims that he or she has sustained loss  or damage, as well as any conduct or statements made in negotiations thereof,  is inadmissible to prove his or her liability for the loss or damage  or any part of it.”                FAC, paragraph  17 (portion) states,: “In correspondence dated December 9, 2020, CROWN noted  increased staining since its last inspection. It stated, ‘We can NOT do  anything about the staining and hoping that it will diminish in time once the  soil underneath the slabs will warm up or will have less moisture. Timing is  unknown.’ The CROWN letter acknowledged the presence of hair line cracks and  notes that more hair line cracks are likely to occur in the future. CROWN  noted: ‘Again, there is NOTHING that could be done about that and unfortunately  it is very natural for concrete.’ The CROWN letter concluded that it would  address elevated sections of concrete around the pool and spa areas and  indicated that it would show the ‘HOA members the acceptable and unacceptable  elevations of the concrete prior to any replacement/repairs.’”   FAC  paragraph 18 pleads: “The Board rejected the minimal repairs that were outlined  by CROWN in its December 9th correspondence  because they did not satisfactorily address the Association’s concerns.”   The  Court finds that allegations in paragraphs 17 and 18 fall within the scope of  “conduct or statements made in negotiations,” thus inadmissible under Evidence  Code section 1152.   Accordingly,  the Court GRANTS without LEAVE TO AMEND the Motion to Strike FAC paragraphs 17  (portion) and 18, as referenced above.   Under  Evidence Code section 1155, “[e]vidence that a person was, at the time a  harm was suffered by another, insured wholly or partially against loss arising  from liability for that harm is inadmissible to prove negligence or  other wrongdoing.”   FAC paragraph  20 (portion) states, “The letter demanded that CROWN tender Association’s claim  to its insurers.”   FAC  paragraph 21 alleges, “On September 29, 2021, the Association’s legal counsel  sent correspondence to CROWN which indicated that the Association would be  moving forward with repairs, but in a final effort to avoid litigation, wished  to contact CROWN’s liability insurer. The letter demanded that CROWN provide  its liability insurance information by October 6, 2021.”   The  Court agrees with Defendants that the facts alleged in paragraphs 20 (portion)  and 21 regarding Defendants’ insurance information is irrelevant to the FAC as they  are not essential to the statement of the claim.    Therefore,  the Court GRANTS without LEAVE TO AMEND the Motion to Strike FAC paragraphs 20  (portion) and 21, as referenced above.   In  sum, the Court GRANTS IN PART the Motion to Strike.   CONCLUSION   Defendants’  Demurrer is SUSTAINED without LEAVE TO AMEND.    Defendants’  Motion to Strike is GRANTED without LEAVE TO AMEND as to paragraphs 17  (portion), 18, 20 (portion), 21, 23 of the First Amended Complaint, and  paragraph 7 of the Prayer for Relief.   Defendants’  Motion to Strike is DENIED as to paragraph 15 (portion) of the First Amended  Complaint.   Defendants’  Motion to Strike is GRANTED with LEAVE TO AMEND as to paragraph 30  (portion) of the First Amended Complaint.   Moving  party is to give notice.