  Case Number:  22STCV11583    Hearing Date:   October 5, 2023    Dept:  15 [TENTATIVE] ORDER RE MOTION FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT
(GOULD)
            Defendant
Gould Electronics Inc. filed a motion for summary judgment of Plaintiffs Donald
Welt and Dianne Welt’s claims that Donald Welt was exposed to asbestos from
Defendant’s products.  Defendant also
moved for summary adjudication of the request for punitive damages.
A defendant seeking summary judgment
must “conclusively negate[] a necessary element of the plaintiff’s case, or . .
. demonstrate[] that under no hypothesis is there a material issue of fact that
requires the process of trial.”  (Guz
v. Bechtel Nat. Inc. (2000) 24 Cal.4th 317, 334.)  To show that a plaintiff cannot establish an
element of a cause of action, a defendant must make the initial showing “that
the plaintiff does not possess, and cannot reasonably obtain, needed
evidence.”  (Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield
Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 854.) 
“The defendant may, but need not, present evidence that conclusively
negates an element of the plaintiff’s cause of action.  The defendant may also present evidence that
the plaintiff does not possess, and cannot reasonably obtain, needed evidence –
as through admissions by the plaintiff following extensive discovery to the
effect that he has discovered nothing.” 
(Id. at p. 855.)  A
plaintiff’s deposition testimony that the plaintiff has no knowledge of any
exposure to the defendant’s products may be sufficient to shift the burden to
the plaintiff to demonstrate the existence of triable issues of fact.  (McGonnell v. Kaiser Gypsum Co., Inc.
(2002) 98 Cal.App.4th 1098, 1103-1104.) 
The plaintiff’s deposition testimony that he did not recall ever working
with a product manufactured by the defendant may not be sufficient to shift the
burden if the plaintiff is able to prove his case by another means.  (Weber v. John Crane, Inc. (2006) 143
Cal.App.4th 1433, 1439.)  “‘If plaintiffs
respond to comprehensive interrogatories seeking all known facts with
boilerplate answers that restate their allegations, or simply provide laundry
lists of people and/or documents, the burden of production will almost
certainly be shifted to them once defendants move for summary judgment and
properly present plaintiff’s factually devoid discovery responses.’”  (Id. at p. 1440.) 
A.        Motion
for Summary Judgment
            Defendant
argues Plaintiffs have no evidence that Donald Welt was exposed to asbestos
from a product from Defendant.  (Motion
at p. 2.)  In response to an
interrogatory asking for a description of the products that exposed Welt to
asbestos, Plaintiffs stated he worked with Bulldog Electrical Products but did
not mention Defendant.  (Undisputed
Material Fact (“UMF”) 3, 4.)  Defendant
also served an interrogatory asking for all facts supporting Plaintiffs’ claims
that Defendant is liable, and Plaintiffs responded that Welt worked around
Bulldog Electrical products owned by Defendant. 
(Ex. C at p. 2; Ex. D at p. 2.) 
At his deposition, Welt testified he does not have a recollection associating
Bulldog with any electrical circuits and does not have a recollection of “ever
cutting, abrading, drilling, sanding, anything that [he] associate[s] with the
name Bulldog.”  (Ex. E at pp. 1050-1051.)  This evidence shows Plaintiffs do not have
and cannot reasonably obtain evidence of exposure.
            In
opposition, Plaintiffs cite Welt’s deposition testimony that he worked on
breaker boxes from Bulldog, he knows the brand because the name was printed on
the part, and he worked with the wiring and insulation.  (Ex. C at pp. 121, 122-123.)  This testimony creates a disputed fact
whether Welt was exposed to asbestos from Bulldog products.
            Defendant
also argues it never made or sold electrical products and has no relationship
with any predecessor entity that made or sold electrical products.  (Motion at p. 3.)  However, Defendant does not cite any evidence
in support of that assertion and therefore did not shift the burden.
            B.        Motion for Summary Adjudication
            Defendant
moves for summary adjudication of the request for punitive damages.   When
the motion targets a request for punitive damages, a higher standard of proof
is at play.  “Although the clear and
convincing evidentiary standard is a stringent one, ‘it does not impose on a
plaintiff the obligation to “prove” a case for punitive damages at summary
judgment [or summary adjudication.’ 
[Citations.]  Even so, ‘where the
plaintiff’s ultimate burden of proof will be by clear and convincing evidence,
the higher standard of proof must be taken into account in ruling on a motion
for summary judgment or summary adjudication, since if a plaintiff is to
prevail on a claim for punitive damages, it will be necessary that the evidence
presented meet the higher evidentiary standard.’  [Citation.]” 
(Butte Fire Cases (2018) 24 Cal.App.5th 1150, 1158-1159.)  “Summary judgment or summary adjudication ‘ “
‘on the issue of punitive damages is proper’ only ‘when no reasonable jury
could find the plaintiff’s evidence to be clear and convincing proof of malice,
fraud or oppression.’ ” ’. 
[Citation.]”  (Id. at p.
1159.)
For a corporate
defendant, the oppression, fraud or malice “must be on the part of an officer,
director, or managing agent of the corporation.”  (Civ. Code, § 3294, subd. (b).)  That requirement can be satisfied “ ‘if the
evidence permits a clear and convincing inference that within the corporate
hierarchy authorized persons acted despicably in “willful and conscious
disregard of the rights or safety of others.” ’ 
[Citation.]”  (Morgan v. J-M
Manufacturing Company, Inc. (2021) 60 Cal.App.5th 1078, 1090.)  A plaintiff also “can satisfy the ‘managing
agent’ requirement ‘through evidence showing the information in the possession
of the corporation and the structure of management decisionmaking that permits
an inference that the information in fact moved upward to a point where
corporate policy was formulated.’ 
[Citation.]”  (Id. at p.
1091.)
“ ‘[I]ntentionally marketing a defective product
knowing that it might cause injury and death is ‘highly reprehensible.’  [Citation.]” 
(Bankhead v. ArvinMeritor, Inc. (2012) 205 Cal.App.4th 68,
85.)  Punitive damages may be available
when a defendant knows the dangers of asbestos, took action to protect its own
employees, knew that its products were likely to pose a danger to users, and
did not warn them.  (Pfeifer v. John
Crane, Inc. (2013) 220 Cal.App.4th 1270, 1300.)  Such evidence “was sufficient to show malice,
that is, despicable conduct coupled with conscious disregard for the safety of
others.”  (Id. at pp.
1300-1301.)   
            Defendant
argues it served an interrogatory asking for all facts supporting the request
for punitive damages, and in response Plaintiffs state it had no facts.  (Ex. C at p. 3; Ex. D at pp. 9-10.)  This is sufficient to shift the burden.
            In
opposition, Plaintiffs cite a letter dated November 17, 1978 from Gould Inc. stating
asbestos dust caused great concern to its employees and letters from 1979 about
asbestos in Gould’s products.  (Motion at
pp. 11-12.)  However, Plaintiffs did not
show that Gould Inc. was the same company as Bulldog Electrical at the time of
Welt’s exposure to Bulldog Electrical products, and Plaintiffs did not submit
evidence of the relationship between Gould Inc. and Defendant.  Thus, Plaintiffs failed to show that Gould
Inc. owned Bulldog Electrical in 1978 such that Gould Inc.’s knowledge in 1978 is
imputed to Bulldog Electrical or that Gould Inc. was responsible in 1978 for
Bulldog Electrical’s products.  
            Defendant
objects to this evidence, but even if it is admissible, it does not show a
disputed issue concerning punitive damages. 

            The
motion for summary judgment is DENIED.  The
motion for summary adjudication is GRANTED.
            The
moving party is to give notice.
 