 Case Number:  23STLC00488    Hearing Date:   September 20, 2023    Dept:  25  1409 Manhattan Apts, LLC v. RidgeGate Escrow,
Inc. 23stlc00488ANALYSIS:
 
I.               
Background
 
On January 23, 2023, Plaintiff 1409
Manhattan Apt, LLC (“Plaintiff”) filed an action against Defendant RidgeGate
Escrow, Inc. for (1) breach of contract, (2) negligence, and (3) fraud.
 
On April 7, 2023, Defendant filed a
Demurrer with Motion to Strike. 
Plaintiff filed the First Amended Complaint (“FAC”) on April 18,
2023.  Thus, Defendant took the Demurrer
with Motion to Strike off calendar.
Defendant filed an Answer on May
22, 2023.
 
On the same day, Defendant filed
the instant Motion to Strike Punitive Damages from First Amended Complaint
(“Motion”).  Plaintiff filed an
Opposition on August 18, 2023, and Defendant filed a Reply on August 24, 2023.
 
On August 28, 2023, the Court
continued the hearing on the Motion to September 20, 2023.  (8-28-23 Minute Order.)
 
II.             
Legal Standard
 
According
to Code of Civil Procedure § 436:
 
The court
may, upon a motion made pursuant to Section 435, or at any time in its
discretion, and upon terms it deems proper:
 
(a)
Strikeout any irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted in any pleading.
(b) Strike
out all or any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity with the
laws of this state, a court rule, or an order of the court.
 
However, motions to strike in limited jurisdiction courts
may only challenge pleadings on the basis that “the damages or relief sought
are not supported by the allegations of the complaint.”  (Code Civ. Proc. § 92(d).)  The Code of Civil Procedure also authorizes
the Court to act on its own initiative to strike matters, empowering the Court
to enter orders striking matter “at any time in its discretion, and upon terms
it deems proper.”  (Code Civ. Proc. §
436.) ¿ Furthermore, § 435.5 requires that “[b]efore filing a motion to strike
pursuant to this chapter, the moving party shall meet and confer in person or
by telephone with the party who filed the pleading that is subject to the
motion to strike for the purpose of determining whether an agreement can be
reached that resolves the objections to be raised in the motion to
strike.”  (Code Civ. Proc. § 435.5(a).)
 
“In order to survive a motion to strike an allegation of
punitive damages, the ultimate facts showing an entitlement to such relief must
be pled by a plaintiff.”  (Clauson v.
Superior Court (1998) 67 Cal.App.4th 1253, 1255.)  A request for punitive damages may be made
pursuant to Civil Code §¿3294(a) which provides that “[i]n an action for the
breach of an obligation not arising from contract, where it is proven by clear
and convincing evidence that the defendant has been guilty of oppression,
fraud, or malice, the plaintiff, in addition to the actual damages, may recover
damages for the sake of example and by way of punishing the defendant.”
 
Under the statute, malice is defined as “conduct which
is intended by the defendant to cause injury to the plaintiff or despicable
conduct which is carried on by the defendant with a willful and conscious
disregard of the rights or safety of others” and oppression is defined as
“despicable conduct that subjects a person to cruel and unjust hardship in
conscious disregard of that person’s rights.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 3294(c)(1),
(c)(2).)  Although not defined by the
statute, despicable conduct refers to circumstances that are base, vile, or
contemptible.  College Hospital, Inc.
v. Superior Court (1994) 8 Cal.4th 704, 725.)  Also, “[u]nder the statute, malice does not
require actual intent to harm…Conscious disregard for the safety of another may
be sufficient where the defendant is aware of the probable dangerous
consequences of his or her conduct and he or she willfully fails to avoid such
consequences…. [Citation.]”  (Pfeifer
v. John Crane, Inc. (2013) 220 Cal.App.4th 1270, 1299.)
 
Furthermore, parties cannot recover attorney’s fees unless expressly
authorized by a statute or contract.  (Hom
v. Petrou (2021) 67 Cal.App.5th 459, 464.)
 
When a plaintiff “has pleaded the general set of facts upon
which his cause of action is based,” the court should give the plaintiff an opportunity
to amend his complaint, since plaintiff should not “be deprived of his right to
maintain his action on the ground that his pleadings were defective for lack of
particulars.”  (Reed v. Norman
(1957) 152 Cal.App.2d 892, 900.) 
Generally, the court will allow leave to amend on at least the first
try, unless there is absolutely no possibility of overcoming the issue.  (See Angie M. v. Superior Court
(1995) 37 Cal.App.4th 1217, 1227.)
 
III.           
Discussion: 
 
A.    
Meet and Confer Requirement
 
On May 15, 2023, defense counsel
left a voicemail message for Plaintiff’s counsel and followed-up with an email
in order to meet and confer regarding the Motion to Strike.  (Davis Decl. ¶ 3.)  The following day, Plaintiff’s counsel
responded, stating that she disagreed and that all of the elements were
adequately alleged.  (Ibid. at ¶
4.)  Defense counsel states that based on
these communications and prior discussions, the attorneys were unable to reach
an agreement.  (Ibid. at ¶ 4.)
 
The Court finds that defense
counsel’s declaration is sufficient to satisfy the meet and confer requirement.
 
B.     Motion to Strike
 
Defendant moves to strike portions
of the Complaint seeking punitive damages on the basis that the allegations do
not support this form of relief.  (Mot. p.
2.)
 
1.    
Item 1: Page 6, Paragraph FIR-7: “The
aforementioned acts of Defendants are willful, wanton, malicious, intentional,
oppressive, and despicable, and were done in willful and conscious disregard of
the rights of Plaintiff, and were done by or with the express knowledge,
consent, and ratification of managerial agents and employees of Defendants, and
thereby justify punitive and exemplary damages to be proven at trial.”
 
2.    
Item 2: Page 7, Exemplary Damages Attachment, Ex-1,
Ex-2: “The aforementioned acts of Defendants are willful, wanton,
malicious, intentional, oppressive, and despicable, and were done in willful
and conscious disregard of the rights of Plaintiff, and were done by or with
the express knowledge, consent, and ratification of managerial agents and
employees of Defendants, and thereby justify punitive and exemplary damages to
be proven at trial. Specifically Defendant’s agent Nicole Nichols asked for
Plaintiffs forwarding address knowing she would not use it as requested;” and
Ex-3.
 
(Ibid.)
 
            Defendant
argues that Plaintiff has “pleaded insufficient facts supporting circumstances
of oppression, fraud, or malice to justify its request for punitive damages in
these circumstances.”  (Ibid. at
p. 3.)  According to the First Amended
Complaint, the parties entered into an agreement whereby Plaintiff was to buy
an apartment complex with Defendant serving as the escrow company.  (Ibid.; See FAC.)  Plaintiff alleges that, according to the
agreement, Defendant agreed to set up mail forwarding so that mail addressed to
the Property would be forwarded to Plaintiff’s business address.  (Ibid.)  Plaintiff has not attached the
agreement.  (Ibid.)  Plaintiff further alleges that Defendant did
not set up mail forwarding, thus, property tax bills were sent to the property
and Plaintiff was unaware of these bills. 
(Ibid.)  Plaintiff was late
in paying the bills and accrued about $8,500 in delinquent fees for overdue tax
payments.  (Ibid.)  Plaintiff sets forth causes of action for
breach of contract, negligence, and fraud, and also seeks punitive damages for
RidgeGate’s failure to change Plaintiff’s mailing address.  (Ibid.)
 
            Defendant
argues that Plaintiff must allege specific facts showing that Defendant’s
conduct was oppressive, fraudulent, or malicious.  (Ibid.)  The FAC presents conclusory facts and
“buzzwords” that do not provide any specific facts demonstrating such
conduct.  (Ibid. at pp. 5-7.)  Furthermore, the breach of an escrow holder’s
fiduciary duty or negligence do not support an award of punitive damages.  (Ibid. at p. 8.)  Defendant’s duty was in processing the escrow
and the only allegation presented in the FAC is regarding Defendant’s failure
to change the mailing address.  (Ibid.)  This conduct cannot “rise to the level of ‘despicable’
or ‘willful’ conduct constituting ‘malice’ that might render RidgeGate liable
for punitive damages.”  (Ibid.)
 
            In
Opposition, Plaintiff argues that “Plaintiff has adequately plead facts
supporting circumstances of oppression, fraud, or malice sufficient to justify
exemplary damages in this case.”  (Oppos.
p. 2.)  Plaintiff argues that its cause
of action for fraud pleads very specific facts regarding Defendant’s
conduct.  (Ibid.)  The FAC states:
On June 16, 2021, Defendant's
agent, Nicole Nichols, a branch manager at RIDGEGATE ESCROW emailed Plaintiffs
agent, Shaun Setareh, requesting Plaintiffs forwarding address as part of its
promise to set up mail forwarding at Property after the completed sale.
However, Ms. Nichols had no intention of performing on this promise as she
never updated the address despite Plaintiff responding within minutes of the
request with the proper address: 9665 Wilshire Blvd. Ste. 430, Beverly Hills,
CA 90212.
 
(FAC at p. 6.)  Based
on these allegations, “it is reasonable to ‘infer that defendants acted in
callous disregard of plaintiffs’ rights, knowing that their conduct was
substantially certain to vex, annoy, and injure plaintiffs.’”  (Oppos. p. 2.)  Plaintiff adds that Defendant promised to set
up mail forwarding in the written agreement and later, also requested the
forwarding address, which Plaintiff provided in minutes.  (Ibid. at p. 3.)  However, “Defendant’s repeated and willful
failure to perform its promise warrants the inference that the promisor did not
intend to perform as promised.”  (Ibid.)  Defendant’s conduct injured Plaintiff,
resulting in the accrual of late penalties. 
(Ibid.)  Plaintiff argues
that the FAC “contains a plethora of facts that are sufficient to show
Defendant’s actions and/or omissions were ‘conceived in a spirit of mischief or
with criminal indifference towards the obligations owed to others’ meriting
punitive damages.”  (Ibid. at p.
4.)  Defendant acted with criminal
indifference toward Plaintiff’s tax obligations and willfully misrepresented,
on at least two occasions, that it would set up mail forwarding.  (Ibid. at p. 4.)  As an experienced escrow company, Defendant should
have known about its obligations.  (Ibid.)  Punitive damages will “serve to deter the
Defendant from committing similar misdeeds.” 
(Ibid. at p. 5.)
 
            In its
Reply, Defendant reiterates that the law does not favor punitive damages and
Courts should grant them with caution. 
(Reply p. 2.)  Defendant argues
that “Plaintiff is mistaken and mischaracterized simple conduct with radical
characterizations” to show that Defendant’s failure to set up mail forwarding rises
to the level of conduct appropriate for punitive damages.  (Ibid. at p. 3.)  Defendant adds that an escrow holder’s breach
of duty cannot alone, without malice, fraud, or oppression, rise to the level
of conduct that would merit an award of punitive damages.  (Ibid. at pp. 4-5.)  Defendant repeats that Plaintiff’s
allegations are conclusory and use “buzz-words” but do not allege any specific
facts regarding Defendant's conduct.  (Ibid.
at p. 5.)  Defendant also states that
there was no escrow instruction or promise to set up mail forwarding, but even
if there was, failure to set up mail forwarding “is not fraud or even the type
of conduct that punitive damages would be appropriate.”  (Ibid.)
 
Having reviewed the parties’
arguments, the Court makes the following findings.
 
First, Plaintiff alleges that
Defendant’s failure to set up mail forwarding was a breach of Defendant’s promise
and the parties’ agreement.  The Court
notes that punitive damages cannot be awarded in an action
for the breach of an obligation arising out of a contract.  (Civ. Code § 3294(a).)
 
Second, Plaintiff
alleges a cause of action for fraud and argues that its request for punitive
damages arises from this cause of action. 
The Court does not find that Plaintiff has alleged
sufficient facts to show that it is entitled to punitive damages.  The allegations made in its fraud cause of
action do not contain any specific facts that demonstrate that any of
Defendant’s conduct could possibly demonstrate oppression,
fraud, or malice.  Moreover, Plaintiff’s
allegations in support of its request for punitive damages are conclusory and
merely recite the requirements for a request for punitive damages.
 
The Court also finds that Plaintiff
has previously had an opportunity to amend the Complaint.  In its Opposition, Plaintiff has not shown
that another amendment could cure the defect in the pleadings.
 
Accordingly, Defendant’s Motion to
Strike is GRANTED without leave to amend.
 
V.             
Conclusion & Order 
 
For the foregoing reasons:
 
The Court GRANTS Defendant
RidgeGate Escrow, Inc.’s Motion to Strike without leave to amend.
 
Moving party to give notice.