 Case Number:  23STCV17619    Hearing Date:   December 12, 2024    Dept:  19 The matter came before the
Court for hearing on December 12, 2024, in Department 19 of the Stanley Mosk Courthouse.  The Court apologizes to counsel, but after
some confusion at the hearing by the Court and upon further review, the
tentative ruling by the Court has been revised. The Court will set February 3,
2025, at 8:30 a.m. for counsel to address the Court’s revised ruling. 
 
 
REVISED TENTATIVE RULING
 
Plaintiffs’ Motion to Compel
Kiara Janine Booker to Appear for a Deposition, filed on November 6, 2024, is
DENIED without prejudice.
 
As a preliminary matter, the
motion seeks to compel the deposition of “Kiara Janine Booker,” but the Court
cannot determine whether “Kiara Janine Booker” is the same person as named
defendant “Kara Booker.” While the declaration of Barry Zelner attached to the
motion indicates that they are the same person, (Barry Zelner, ¶ 3; see Compl.,
¶ 7), the motion seeks to compel compliance with a Deposition Subpoena for
Personal Attendance served on “Kiara Janine Booker.” (See Motion, p. 3; Zelner
Decl. at ¶ 7, Ex. 1.) A subpoena is not needed to take the deposition of a
party witness; however, a subpoena must be used to take the deposition of a
non-party witness. (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 2020.010(b), 2025.280(a), (b).)
Plaintiffs also provide evidence that the Deposition Subpoena for Personal
Attendance was personally served on “Kiara Janine Booker,” (Zelner Decl. at ¶
7, Ex. 2), further suggesting that “Kiara Janine Booker” and “Kara Booker” are
not the same person and that “Kiara Janine Booker” is a non-party witness. (See
Cal. R. Ct., 3.1346 [“A written notice and all moving papers supporting a
motion to compel an answer to a deposition question or to compel production of
a document or tangible thing from a nonparty deponent must be personally served
on the nonparty deponent unless the nonparty deponent agrees to accept service
by mail or electronic service at an address or electronic service address
specified on the deposition record.”].)
 
Next, the Court is not
satisfied that the motion papers have been properly served.
 
The proof of service attached
to the motion papers indicates that they were served electronically on (1)
counsel for Defendant 1 Plus 1 Senior Care, Inc.; and (2) “Kiara Janine
Booker.” However, no electronic service address is provided for “Kiara Janine
Booker.” The Court notes that no defendant has yet appeared in the matter;
thus, assuming “Kiara Janine Booker” and “Kara Booker” are the same person, it
is unclear if Defendant Booker has counsel. An unrepresented party may not be
electronically served unless the self-represented party affirmatively agrees
otherwise. (See Code Civ. Proc., § 1010.6(c); Cal. R. Ct. 2.251(b); see also
Cal. R. Ct., 2.253(b)(3).) To the extent that Defendant Booker has counsel,
then the papers must be served on her counsel. Moreover, the proof of service
does not state the electronic service address of the person making the service
as required by Code of Civil Procedure section 1013b, subdivision (b)(1). Thus,
the Court finds the proof of service attached to the motion papers is insufficient
evidence that the motion papers were served on any person or entity.
 
In the event “Kiara Janine
Booker” and “Kara Booker” are not the same person and “Kiara Janine Booker” is
a non-party witness, then both the motion papers and the Deposition Subpoena
for Personal Attendance needed to be personally served on “Kiara Janine
Booker.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2020.220(b)-(c), Cal. Rules of Ct., 3.1346;
see Cal. R. Ct., 2.251(f)(2) [“A document may not be electronically served on a
nonparty unless the nonparty consents to electronic service or electronic
service is otherwise provided for by law or court order.”].) However, the proof
of service attached to the motion papers only suggests that Defendant 1 Plus 1
Senior Care, Inc. may have been served. Nothing has been filed indicating that
the motion papers were personally served on “Kiara Janine Booker” as required
by California Rules of Court, rule 3.1346
 
Similarly, the Court is not
satisfied that Plaintiffs have given proper notice of the hearing date. 
 
On November 5, 2024, the Court
granted Plaintiffs’ ex parte application and specially set the hearing.
(November 5, 2024 Minute Order, p. 1.)
 
On November 6, 2024, Plaintiffs
filed concurrently with the motion papers a “Notice of Ruling Re Motion to
Advance Motion to Compel Against Kiara Janine Booker” (the “Notice of Ruling”).
The proof of service attached to the Notice of Ruling indicates it was
electronically served on attorney Tom M. Castonovo of Shaver, Korff &
Castronovo LLP. However, as discussed above, assuming “Kiara Janine Booker” and
“Kara Booker” are the same person and Plaintiffs are seeking to compel the
deposition of a party, no defendant has yet appeared in the matter, and it
cannot be determined whether Tom M. Castonovo represents Kiara Janine
Booker/Kara Booker. If “Kiara Janine Booker” is a non-party witness, then the
notice needed to be personally served on her. (Cal. R. Ct., 3.1346.) Moreover,
as with the proof of service attached to the motion papers, the proof of
service attached to the Notice of Ruling does not state the electronic service
address of the person making the service as required by Code of Civil Procedure
section 1013b, subdivision (b)(1) and therefore is insufficient evidence that
the Notice of Ruling was served on any person or entity.
 
For these reasons, the motion
is denied without prejudice.
 
Since no defendant has appeared
in the matter, notice is not required under the circumstances. (Code Civ.
Proc., § 1010.)
 
 