  Case Number:  21STCV43604    Hearing Date:   December 12, 2024    Dept:  19  RULING  After full consideration of the papers and evidence filed, inferences reasonably drawn therefrom, and oral argument at the hearing of December 12, 2024, Defendant General Motors, LLC’s Motion for Summary Judgment is GRANTED.  The Court DENIES Plaintiffs’ request for relief pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 437c, subdivision (h).  Counsel for Defendant to file a proposed judgment within 60 days.  The Court sets a Non-Appearance Case Review Re: Proposed Judgment for March 21, 2025, in Department 19 of the Stanley Mosk Courthouse.   Counsel for Defendant to give notice.  STATEMENT OF THE CASE  This is a lemon law action. Plaintiffs Rudy Distrito and Carlos Distrito (collectively, “Plaintiffs”) bring suit against Defendant General Motors, LLC (“Defendant”) alleging the following causes of action: Violation of Subdivision (d) Of Civil Code Section 1793.2. Violation of Subdivision (b) Of Civil Code Section 1793.2. Violation of Subdivision (a)(3) Of Civil Code Section 1793.2; and Breach of the Implied Warranty of Merchantability (Civ. Code, § 1791.1; § 1794; § 1795.5).  Plaintiffs allege that they “entered into a warranty contract” with Defendant “regarding a 2017 Cadillac Escalade vehicle identification number 1GYS3HKJXHR297915 (hereafter ‘Vehicle’), which was manufactured and or distributed by Defendant GM.” (Compl., ¶ 9.) Plaintiffs allege that Defendant breached the warranty contract when Defendant failed to properly remedy defects with the Subject Vehicle and failed to either replace the Vehicle or reimburse Plaintiffs for the price paid for the Vehicle. (Id. at ¶¶ 14-27, 30-31, 35-37.)  Defendant filed the instant Motion for Summary Judgment (the “Motion”).  GROUNDS FOR MOTION  As an initial matter, the Court notes that the Motion is entitled a “Motion for Summary Judgment.” Although the Motion’s Memorandum of Points and Authorities argues that “¿any and all Song-Beverly claims asserted on his behalf should be summarily adjudicated in GM’s favor,” (Motion, p. 3), that the “¿Court should summarily adjudicate Plaintiffs’ first, second and third causes of action in favor of GM,” (id. at p. 10), and that the “¿Court grant GM summary adjudication on Counts I through IV of the Complaint,” (id. at p. 11), the Notice of Motion does explicitly request “summary adjudication” of any cause of action.  In Opposition, Plaintiff contends that the Motion is “a pure Motion for Summary Judgment,” and therefore “¿if Plaintiffs demonstrate even a single triable issue of material fact (as described in Defendant's Separate Statement), then Defendant's entire MSJ fails.” (Opposition, p. v.) California Rules of Court, rule 3.1350, subdivision (b) provides, in relevant part:  If summary adjudication is sought, whether separately or as an alternative to the motion for summary judgment, the specific cause of action, affirmative defense, claims for damages, or issues of duty must be stated specifically in the notice of motion and be repeated, verbatim, in the separate statement of undisputed material facts. (Cal. R. Ct., 3.1350(b).)  The Court of Appeal in Gonzales v. Superior Court (1987) 189 Cal.App.3d 1542 explains that:  It is elemental that a notice of motion must state in writing the “grounds upon which it will be made.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 1010; Cal. Rules of Court, rule 311(a); Silva v. Holland (1888) 74 Cal. 530, 532….) Only the grounds specified in the notice of motion may be considered by the trial court. (Taliaferro v. Riddle (1959) 167 Cal.App.2d 567, 570…; cf. Carrasco v. Craft (1985) 164 Cal.App.3d 796, 808…].) This rule has been held to be especially true in the case of motions for summary adjudication of issues. (Homestead Savings v. Superior Court (1986) 179 Cal.App.3d 494, 499….)  The language in Code of Civil Procedure section 437c, subdivision (f) makes it clear that a motion for summary adjudication cannot be considered by the court unless the party bringing the motion duly gives notice that summary adjudication is being sought. (Homestead Savings v. Superior Court, supra., 179 Cal.App.3d at pp. 497-498; Weil & Brown, Cal. Practice Guide: Civil Procedure Before Trial (1986) §§ 10:21, 10:43.) “If a party desires adjudication of particular issues or subissues, that party must make its intentions clear in the motion ....” (Homestead Savings v. Superior Court, supra., 179 Cal.App.3d at p. 498.) There is a sound reason for this rule: “... the opposing party may have decided to raise only one triable issue of fact in order to defeat the motion, without intending to concede the other issues. It would be unfair to grant a summary adjudication order unless the opposing party was on notice that an issue-by-issue adjudication might be ordered if summary judgment was denied.” (Weil & Brown, supra., at § 10:44.) (Id. at 1545–1546; see Maryland Cas. Co. v. Reeder (1990) 221 Cal.App.3d 961, 974 fn. 4 [“…in its notice of motion Maryland did not identify the coverage provided by particular policies as discrete issues on which it was seeking summary adjudication. Thus we do not have the power to direct the trial court to enter an order in Maryland's favor as to the coverage provided by particular policies.”]; Hawkins v. Wilton (2006) 144 Cal. App. 4th 936, 949 (“…because Wilton did not move in the alternative for summary adjudication of specified issues, we will not address whether Wilton may have prevailed on some issues in this case.”); Sequoia Ins. Co. v. Sup. Ct.¿ (1993) 13 Cal.App.4th 1472, 1478 [“…there is no longer any reason for a notice of motion to identify specific issues; a listing of the disputed causes of action, as was done here, is sufficient. The trial court's stated requirement that the “matters” at issue be more precisely identified would have been accurate under the prior system of summary adjudication (cf. Homestead Savings v. Superior Court (1986) 179 Cal.App.3d 494…but is unjustified under the present version of section 437c, subdivision (f).”].)  Here, the Court finds that the Notice of Motion sufficiently gives Plaintiffs notice that Defendant is seeking summary judgment, or in the alternative, summary adjudication of the First, Second, and Third Causes of Action. Although the Notice of Motion fails to explicitly use the word “adjudication,” the Notice of Motion clearly states that Defendant is arguing that it is entitled to judgment as a matter of law with respect to “Counts I-III.” (Motion at p. 2.) Given the reference in the Notice of Motion to “Counts I-III” and the assertion in the memorandum that the “¿Court should summarily adjudicate Plaintiffs’ first, second and third causes of action in favor of GM,” (id. at p. 10), the Court finds that Plaintiffs are “on notice that an issue-by-issue adjudication might be ordered” with respect to the First, Second, and Third Causes of Action “if summary judgment is denied. (Gonzales, supra, 189 Cal.App.3d at 1546.)  However, the Court finds that the Notice of Motion does not provide sufficient notice that Defendant is seeking summary adjudication of the Fourth Cause of Action. The Notice of Motion makes no reference to the Fourth Cause of Action or “Count IV.” California Rules of Court, rule 3.1350, subdivision (b) requires that the “specific cause of action… must be stated specifically in the notice of motion….” (Cal. R. Ct., 3.1350(b); see Mediterranean Const. Co. v. State Farm Fire & Cas. Co. (1998 (66 Cal.App.4th 257, 262 [because granting motion is such a drastic remedy, all procedural requirements must be satisfied].)  Since the Notice of Motion specifically identifies “Counts I-III” but not the Fourth Cause of Action, the Court construes the Motion as a Motion for Summary Judgment or, in the alternative, a Motion for Summary Adjudication of the First, Second, and Third Causes of Action only.   Thus, if Defendant is not entitled to summary judgment, Defendant may nonetheless still obtain summary adjudication of the First, Second, and Third Causes, but may not obtain summary adjudication of the Fourth Cause of Action.   EVIDENTIARY OBJECTION  The Court rules on Plaintiff’s evidentiary objections as follows:  Declaration of Bryan Jensen   OBJECTION #1: OVERRULED OBJECTION #2: OVERRULED OBJECTION #3: OVERRULED  OBJECTION #4: OVERRULED OBJECTION #5: OVERRULED  DISCUSSION  I. Procedural Requirements  The Code of Civil Procedure requires that the notice of motion and supporting paper be served on all other parties at least 75 days prior to the hearing date, and that the motion be heard no later than 30 days prior to trial. (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 437c(a)(2), 437c(a)(3).)   Further, the Code of Civil Procedure prescribes that:  The supporting papers shall include a separate statement setting forth plainly and concisely all material facts which the moving party contends are undisputed. Each of the material facts stated shall be followed by a reference to the supporting evidence. The failure to comply with this requirement of a separate statement may in the court's discretion constitute a sufficient ground for denial of the motion. (Code Civil Proc., § 437c(b)(1); see also Cal. R. Ct., 3.1350(c)(2) & (d).)   Here, Defendant provided the required separate statement. The Motion was filed and served more than 75 days before the hearing date and will be heard more than 30 days prior to trial. The Court finds the Motion timely and properly filed.   II. LEGAL STANDARDS  Code of Civil Procedure section 437c, subdivision (c) provides that:  The motion for summary judgment shall be granted if all the papers submitted show that there is no triable issue as to any material fact and that the moving party is entitled to a judgment as a matter of law. In determining if the papers show that there is no triable issue as to any material fact, the court shall consider all of the evidence set forth in the papers, except the evidence to which objections have been made and sustained by the court, and all inferences reasonably deducible from the evidence, except summary judgment shall not be granted by the court based on inferences reasonably deducible from the evidence if contradicted by other inferences or evidence that raise a triable issue as to any material fact. (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c(c).)  Further, pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 437c, subdivision (f)(1):  “A party may move for summary adjudication as to one or more causes of action within an action, one or more affirmative defenses, one or more claims for damages, or one or more issues of duty, if that party contends that the cause of action has no merit or that there is no affirmative defense thereto, or that there is no merit to an affirmative defense as to any cause of action, or both, or that there is no merit to a claim for damages, as specified in Section 3294 of the Civil Code, or that one or more defendants either owed or did not owe a duty to the plaintiff or plaintiffs.” (Code Civil Proc., § 437c(f)(1).)  The purpose of the law of summary judgment is to provide courts with a mechanism to cut through the parties' pleadings in order to determine whether, despite their allegations, trial is in fact necessary to resolve their dispute.” (Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 843.) In analyzing motions for summary adjudication, courts must apply a three-step analysis: “(1) identify the issues framed by the pleadings; (2) determine whether the moving party has negated the opponent's claims; and (3) determine whether the opposition has demonstrated the existence of a triable, material factual issue.” (Hinesley v. Oakshade Town Center (2005) 135 Cal.App.4th 289, 294.) Pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 437c, subdivision (p)(2):  A defendant or cross-defendant has met his or her burden of showing that a cause of action has no merit if the party has shown that one or more elements of the cause of action, even if not separately pleaded, cannot be established, or that there is a complete defense to the cause of action. Once the defendant or cross-defendant has met that burden, the burden shifts to the plaintiff or cross-complainant to show that a triable issue of one or more material facts exists as to the cause of action or a defense thereto. The plaintiff or cross-complainant shall not rely upon the allegations or denials of its pleadings to show that a triable issue of material fact exists but, instead, shall set forth the specific facts showing that a triable issue of material fact exists as to the cause of action or a defense thereto. (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c(p)(2).)  The California Supreme Court in Aguilar, supra, laid down the requisite burden for the party moving for summary judgment:  From commencement to conclusion, the moving party bears the burden of persuasion that there is no genuine issue of material fact and that he is entitled to judgment as a matter of law. There is a genuine issue of material fact if, and only if, the evidence would allow a reasonable trier of fact to find the underlying fact in favor of the party opposing the motion in accordance with the applicable standard of proof. Initially, the moving party bears a burden of production to make a prima facie showing of the nonexistence of any genuine issue of material fact. If he carries his burden of production, he causes a shift: the opposing party is then subjected to a burden of production of his own to make a prima facie showing of the existence of a genuine issue of material fact. How each party may carry his burden of persuasion and/or production depends on which would bear what burden of proof at trial. Thus, if a plaintiff who would bear the burden of proof by a preponderance of evidence at trial moves for summary judgment, he must present evidence that would require a reasonable trier of fact to find any underlying material fact more likely than not. (Aguilar, supra, 25 Cal.4th at 857.)  The court must “view the evidence in the light most favorable to the opposing party and accept all inferences reasonably drawn therefrom.” (Hinesley, supra, 135 Cal.App.4th at 294; Dore v. Arnold Worldwide, Inc. (2006) 39 Cal.4th 384, 389 (Courts “liberally construe the evidence in support of the party opposing summary judgment and resolve doubts concerning the evidence in favor of that party.”).) A motion for summary adjudication must be denied where the moving party's evidence does not prove all material facts, even in the absence of any opposition, (Leyva v. Sup. Ct. (1985) 164 Cal.App.3d 462, 475), or where the opposition is weak. (Salasguevara v. Wyeth Labs., Inc. (1990) 222 Cal.App.3d 379, 384, 387.)  “[I]n ruling on a motion for summary judgment, a trial court must consider all the evidence submitted, except the court may ignore evidence not disclosed in moving party's separate statement of undisputed facts.” (San Diego Watercrafts, Inc. v. Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. (2002) 102 Cal.App.4th 308, 315.) However, the court may in its discretion look to evidence outside the separate statement, subject to due process concerns. (Id. at 315-317.)  A moving defendant has two means by which to shift the burden of proof to the plaintiff to produce evidence creating a triable issue of fact. (Brantley v. Pisaro (1996) 42 Cal.App.4th 1591, 1598.) “The defendant may rely upon factually insufficient discovery responses by the plaintiff to show that the plaintiff cannot establish an essential element of the cause of action sued upon.” (Id. (citing Union Bank v. Superior Court (1995) 31 Cal.App.4th 573, 590).) “Alternatively, the defendant may utilize the tried and true technique of negating (‘disproving’) an essential element of the plaintiff's cause of action.” (Id. (citing Chevron U.S.A., Inc. v. Superior Court (1992) 4 Cal.App.4th 544, 552-553, disapproved of on other grounds by Camargo v. Tjaarda Dairy (2001) 25 Cal.4th 1235); see Code Civ. Proc., § 437c(p)(2).)  However, to shift the burden based on factually insufficient discovery responses, the moving defendant must show that plaintiff cannot reasonably obtain evidence to prove a cause of action, which is more than simply arguing that there is an absence of evidence. (Gaggero v. Yura (2003) 108 Cal.App.4th 884, 891.)  III. ANALYSIS  A. Plaintiffs’ Request for a Continuance Pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure Section 437c, subdivision (h)  Pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 437c, subdivision (h), Plaintiffs request that the Court continue the hearing on the Motion “¿until after Plaintiffs have had an opportunity to depose Defendant’s PMK witness.” (Opposition at p. 9.) Plaintiffs contend that a continuance is necessary “¿due to Defendant’s withholding of evidence necessary to oppose Defendant’s MSJ,” arguing that, as described in their “Motion To Compel Deposition Of The Person Most Knowledgeable For General Motors, LLC; Request For Production Of Documents At Deposition; And Request For Monetary Sanctions Against General Motors, LLC” filed on July 9, 2024 and noticed for hearing on March 6, 2025 (the “Motion to Compel”), and because Defendant “¿outright refuses to produce essential discovery in necessary for Plaintiffs’ Opposition, including testimony of Defendant’s PMK on all noticed categories” indicating that Defendant “never ¿intended to produce a PMK witness.” (Id. at pp. v., 9.)  Code of Civil Procedure section 437c, subdivision (h) provides that:  If it appears from the affidavits submitted in opposition to a motion for summary judgment or summary adjudication, or both, that facts essential to justify opposition may exist but cannot, for reasons stated, be presented, the court shall deny the motion, order a continuance to permit affidavits to be obtained or discovery to be had, or make any other order as may be just. The application to continue the motion to obtain necessary discovery may also be made by ex parte motion at any time on or before the date the opposition response to the motion is due. (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c(h).)  Code of Civil Procedure section 437c, subdivision (h) “specifically requires a good faith showing by affidavit. It is not enough to merely raise the issue in the opposition memorandum.” (American Continental Ins. Co. v. C & Z Timber Co. (1987) 195 Cal.App.3d 1271, 1280.)   As explained by the Court of Appeal in 501 East 51st Street, Long-Beach-10 LLC v. Kookmin Best Insurance Co., Ltd. (2020) 47 Cal.App.5th 924:  A party seeking continuance or denial of a motion under section 437c, subdivision (h) must show that the facts to be obtained are essential to opposing the motion, that there is reason to believe such facts may exist, and that additional time is needed to obtain these facts. The party's supporting declarations must show: (1) Facts establishing a likelihood that controverting evidence may exist and why the information sought is essential to opposing the motion; (2) The specific reasons why such evidence cannot be presented at the present time; (3) An estimate of the time necessary to obtain such evidence; and (4) The specific steps or procedures the opposing party intends to utilize to obtain such evidence. (Id. at 939 (internal citations and quotations omitted).)  “Code of Civil Procedure section 437c, subdivision (h) requires more than a simple recital that ‘facts essential to justify opposition may exist.’” (Lerma v. County of Orange (2004) 120 Cal.App.4th 709, 715.) “The affidavit or declaration in support of the continuance request must detail the specific facts that would show the existence of controverting evidence.” (Id. (citing Roth v. Rhodes (1994) 25 Cal.App.4th 530, 548; American Continental Ins. Co., supra, 195 Cal.App.3d at 1280).)  “[T]he affiant is not required to show that essential evidence does exist, but only that it may exist. This, and the language stating the continuance shall be granted upon such a showing, ‘leaves little room for doubt that such continuances are to be liberally granted.’” (Frazee v. Seely (2002) 95 Cal.App.4th 627, 634 (quoting Bahl v. Bank of America (2001) 89 Cal.App.4th 389, 395); see Lerma, supra, 120 Cal.App.4th at 714 [If a nonparty makes the requisite good faith showing by affidavit that a continuance is needed to obtain facts essential to justify opposition to the motion, then a continuance is mandatory].)  “When a continuance of a summary judgment motion is not mandatory, because of a failure to meet the requirements of Code of Civil Procedure section 437c, subdivision (h), the court must determine whether the party requesting the continuance has nonetheless established good cause therefor. That determination is within the court's discretion.” (Lerma, supra, 120 Cal.App.4th at 716 (citing Mahoney v. Southland Mental Health Associates Medical Group (1990) 223 Cal.App.3d 167, 170-172).)   Here, the declaration of Plaintiffs’ counsel, Daniel Law, is the only affidavit filed by Plaintiffs which contain facts relevant to the continuance request. Mr. Law attests that Plaintiffs “have been attempting to take the deposition of GM’s PMK since June 28, 2023,” but that “[t]o date, GM has refused to produce a witness on all categories.” (Daniel Law Decl., ¶ 3.) Mr. Law attests that, “[o]n June 28, 2023, Plaintiffs served a Notice of Deposition of GM’s PMK to Defendant, noticed for August 30, 2023, at 10:00 AM,” but that, in objections served on August 23, 2024, Defendant objected on the basis of unavailability. (Id. at ¶¶ 4-5.) Mr. Law attests that, on April 12, 2024, Plaintiffs served an “Amended Notice of Deposition of GM’s PMK to Defendant, noticed for May 3, 2024, at 10:00 AM,” but that, in objections served on April 23, 2024, Defendant again objected on the basis of unavailability. (Id. at ¶¶ 6-7.)  Mr. Law attests that “Plaintiffs’ counsel has been meeting and conferring with Defendant’s counsel in good faith concerning the deposition of a PMK witness since June 28, 2023,” but that Defendant has refused to make its PMK available. (Id. at ¶¶ 8-9.)   Mr. Law attests that the PMK deposition “is necessary, as Defendant’s PMK will testify not only to the defects experienced in Plaintiffs’ Vehicle, but also as to the Vehicle’s ownership history, prior owners, prior uses, prior issues in the Vehicle, and any warranties issued or subsequently issued regarding the Vehicle, which relate to arguments made in Defendant’s MSJ.” (Id. at ¶ 10.)  The Court finds that Plaintiffs are not entitled to a continuance because the Court finds that Plaintiffs fail to make the requisite good faith showing.  First, for the reasons discussed below, including but not limited to the undisputed fact that the Vehicle was purchased used, the Court concludes, as argued by Defendant, that “no additional facts developed during discovery would or could help Plaintiffs.” (Reply, p. 5.) Thus, the Court finds that Plaintiffs fail to show that there are facts that may exists that are essential to opposing the Motion.   Second, the Court finds that Plaintiffs inappropriately delayed in seeking to compel the deposition of Defendant’s PMK and that their request for a continuance in the Opposition to the instant Motion is not being made in good faith.  As explained by the Court of Appeal in Cooksey v. Alexakis (2004) 123 Cal.App.4th 246:  We agree with the majority of courts holding that lack of diligence may be a ground for denying a request for a continuance of a summary judgment motion hearing. Although the statute does not expressly mention diligence, it does require a party seeking a continuance to declare why “facts essential to justify opposition ... cannot, for reasons stated, then be presented” (§ 437c, subd. (h), italics added), and courts have long required such declarations to be made in good faith. (See, e.g., Yuzon v. Collins [(2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 149] at p. 167…; California Automobile Ins. Co. v. Hogan [(2003) 112 Cal.App.4th 1292] at p. 1305…; Aguimatang v. California State Lottery [(1991) 234 Cal.App.3d 769] at pp. 803–804…; O'Laskey v. Sortino [(1990) 224 Cal.App.3d 241] at p. 251…; Fisher v. Larsen (1982) 138 Cal.App.3d 627, 648….) There must be a justifiable reason why the essential facts cannot be presented. An inappropriate delay in seeking to obtain the facts may not be a valid reason why the facts cannot then be presented. The statute itself authorizes the imposition of sanctions for declarations presented in bad faith or solely for purposes of delay. (§ 437c, subd. (j).) A good faith showing that further discovery is needed to oppose summary judgment requires some justification for why such discovery could not have been completed sooner. (Id. at 257.)  Back on May 26, 2022, over two and one half (2.5) years ago, the February 6, 2025, trial date was set. (May 26, 2022, Minute Order, p. 1.)   Yet, the declaration of Daniel Law states that Plaintiffs waited until June 28, 2023, over a year after the setting of the trial date and over a year and a half since the commencement of the action, to first notice the deposition of Defendant’s PMK. (Law Decl. at ¶ 4.)   Citing the declaration of Nino Sanaia filed in support of the Motion to Compel on July 9, 2024, Mr. Law attests that “Plaintiffs’ counsel has been meeting and conferring with Defendant’s counsel in good faith concerning the deposition of a PMK witness since June 28, 2023.” (Id. at ¶ 8 (citing Declaration of Nino Sanaia ISO Plaintiffs’ pending Motion to Compel (“Sanaia Decl.”), ¶¶ 25-34, Exs. 11-18).)  However, after review of the declaration of Nino Sanaia filed in support of the Motion to Compel, it appears that Plaintiffs attempted to meet and confer with Defendant regarding a date for Defendant PMK’s deposition no earlier than April 12, 2024, when Plaintiffs’ counsel sent a letter with the Amended Notice of Deposition, which is approximately ten (10) months after the original Notice of Deposition was served on June 28, 2023 and almost two (2) years after the trial date was set. (Sanaia Decl., ¶ 28, Ex. 13.)   Plaintiffs finally filed the Motion to Compel on July 9, 2024, noticed for a hearing date of March 6, 2025, which is a month after the scheduled trial date. Despite the February 6, 2025 trial date being set over two and a half years ago, Plaintiffs waited over a year to first notice the deposition of Defendant’s PMK, waited almost another year to meet and confer with Defendant regarding a mutual date for Defendant PMK’s deposition, and now seek a continuance of the hearing on the instant Motion until March 6, 2025, which is after the date set for trial.   Further, Plaintiffs waited over one month after the filing of the Motion to Compel to file their “Ex Parte Application To Shorten Time To Hear Plaintiffs’ Motion To Compel Deposition Of The Person Most Knowledgeable For General Motors, LLC; Request For Production Of Documents At Deposition Or Alternatively, Continue Hearing On Defendant’s Motion For Summary Judgement, Trial, And All Related Deadlines” (the “Ex Parte”), which was filed on August 9, 2024.  Moreover, while the Ex Parte alternatively sought a continuance of the hearing on the instant Motion, the hearing on the instant Motion is already a mere 56 days before the February 6, 2025 trial date, and Code of Civil Procedure section 437c, subdivision (a)(1)(3) requires that a motion for summary judgment and/or adjudication “shall be heard no later than 30 days before the date of trial, unless the court for good cause orders otherwise.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c(a)(1)(3).) Plaintiffs fail to explain, and the Court fails to see, how, given their years-long delay, Plaintiffs could have completed the PMK deposition without requiring a continuance of the trial date.   In sum, the Court finds that Plaintiffs inappropriately delayed in seeking to compel the deposition of Defendant’s PMK and that their request for a continuance in the Opposition to the instant Motion is not being made in good faith.  Accordingly, for all the foregoing reasons, the Court DENIES Plaintiffs’ request for relief pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 437c, subdivision (h).  B. Analysis on Motion  Defendant argues (1) that Plaintiff Rudy Distrito lacks standing to assert claims under the Song-Beverly Consumer Warranty Act; (2) Plaintiff Carlos Distrito bought the Vehicle used and therefore cannot prevail on the Fourth Cause of Action; (3) the Vehicle is not a “new motor vehicle” and Plaintiff Carlos Distrito did not receive any new or additional warranty coverage with the purchase of the used Vehicle and therefore cannot prevail on the First, Second, and Third Cause of Action; and (4) Plaintiffs do not have evidence to substantiate the alleged violations and therefore cannot prevail on the Second and Third Causes of Action. (Motion at pp. 3, 7-11.)  1. Plaintiff Rudy Distrito’s Standing  The Song-Beverly Consumer Warranty Act is codified at Civil Code sections 1790 through 1795.8, inclusive.   In order for a plaintiff “to prevail in an action under Song-Beverly, he must be a ‘buyer of consumer goods.’” (Atkinson v. Elk Corp. (2003) 109 Cal.App.4th 739, 749 (quoting Civ. Code, § 1794(a); Civ. Code, § 1794(a) [“Any buyer of consumer goods who is damaged by a failure to comply with any obligation under this chapter or under an implied or express warranty or service contract may bring an action for the recovery of damages and other legal and equitable relief.”].)   Civil Code section 1791, subdivision (b) defines “buyer” as:  …any individual who buys consumer goods from a person engaged in the business of manufacturing, distributing, or selling consumer goods at retail.  (Civ. Code, § 1791(b); see Atkinson, supra, 109 Cal.App.4th at 749 (quoting Civ. Code, § 1791(b)) [“Civil Code section 1791 provides definitions pertinent to Song Beverly. Subdivision (b) defines ‘buyer’ or ‘retail buyer’ as ‘any individual who buys consumer goods from a person engaged in the business of manufacturing, distributing, or selling consumer goods at retail.’”].)  Here, the Court finds that Defendant sustains its initial burden to show there is no triable issue of material fact regarding whether Plaintiff Rudy Distrito has standing to maintain a claim under the Song-Beverly Consumer Warranty Act.  Defendant provides as evidence the Retail Installment Sale Contract (hereafter, the “Purchase Agreement”) for the Vehicle, which lists only Plaintiff Carlos Distrito as “Buyer” and does not list any “co-buyer.” (Bryan Jensen Decl., ¶ 4, Ex. A.)  Indeed, Plaintiffs do not dispute that Plaintiff Rudy Distrito is not a buyer of the Vehicle; rather, Plaintiffs argue that Plaintiff Rudy Distrito has standing because he “was the primary driver of the Vehicle….” (Opposition at p. 8 (citing Plaintiffs’ Decl., ¶¶ 3, 6-7, Ex. 3).) However, Plaintiffs do not provide any legal authority to conclude that a “buyer” as defined by the Song-Beverly Consumer Warranty Act extends to “primary drivers” of a motor vehicle. Plaintiffs’ reliance on Islas v. Ford Motor Company (C.D. Cal., July 29, 2019, No. EDCV 18-2221-GW(SPX)) 2019 WL 10855294 is misplaced. First, it is an unpublished federal district court case. In any event, in Islas, the United States District Court held that, although the co-plaintiff was not listed on the purchase agreement, it was undisputed that the co-plaintiff was “actually the person making the payments on the vehicle,” obtained insurance, and made the insurance payments. (Id. at * 3, 6.)  Here, in contrast, Plaintiffs do not provide any evidence that Plaintiff Rudy Distrito made payments on the Vehicle, obtained insurance on the Vehicle, or made any insurance payments. Rather, Plaintiffs only provide evidence that Plaintiff Rudy Distrito “was the primary driver of the Vehicle, brought the Vehicle in for repairs, and made sure the Subject Vehicle was properly maintained.” (Plaintiffs’ Decl. at ¶ 3; see id. at ¶¶ 6-7, Ex. 3.)   Plaintiffs fail to provide a sufficient legal basis to conclude that being the “primary driver” of the Vehicle and taking responsibility for maintaining the Vehicle are sufficient to render Plaintiff Rudy Distrito a “buyer” for purposes of maintaining a claim under the Song-Beverly Consumer Warranty Act.  In sum, the Court finds that Plaintiffs fail to sustain their burden to show the existence of a triable issue of material fact regarding whether Plaintiff Rudy Distrito has standing to maintain a claim under the Song-Beverly Consumer Warranty Act.  Since all of Plaintiffs’ claims are Song-Beverly Consumer Warranty Act claims, the Court finds that Defendant is entitled to summary judgment with respect to Plaintiff Rudy Distrito.  2. Plaintiff Carlos Distrito Bought Vehicle Used  Next, Defendant argues that, because Plaintiff Carlo Distrito bought the Vehicle used and there is no evidence that Defendant was a distributor or retail seller of the Vehicle to Plaintiff Carlos Distrito, Plaintiff Carlos Distrito cannot maintain the Fourth Cause of Action for Breach of the Implied Warranty of Merchantability. (Motion at pp. 7-8.)  “It is evident from [Civil Code, §§ 1791, 1791.1, and 1795.5] that only distributors or sellers of used goods—not manufacturers of new goods—have implied warranty obligations in the sale of used goods.” (Nunez v. FCA US LLC (2021) 61 Cal.App.5th 385, 399.) Thus, a plaintiff’s implied warranty claim against a manufacturer fails as a matter of law “where there is no evidence the manufacturer played any role in the sale of the used car to plaintiff.” (Id. at 398-399.)  Here, it is undisputed that the Vehicle was purchased used from Direct Wholesale Motors dba Hermosa Motors. (Plaintiffs’ Response to Defendant’s SSUMF No. 2.)   In its separate statement, Defendant asserts that Martin Cadillac delivered the Vehicle to its original owners(s) on March 20, 2017. (Defendant’s SSUMF Nos 5.)  The Court agrees with Defendant, (Reply at pp. 2-3), that Plaintiffs fail to properly dispute this fact.   California Rules of Court, rule 3.1350, subdivision (f)(2) prescribes the rules for responding to a moving party’s separate statement:   On the right side of the page, directly opposite the recitation of the moving party's statement of material facts and supporting evidence, the response must unequivocally state whether that fact is "disputed" or "undisputed." An opposing party who contends that a fact is disputed must state, on the right side of the page directly opposite the fact in dispute, the nature of the dispute and describe the evidence that supports the position that the fact is controverted. Citation to the evidence in support of the position that a fact is controverted must include reference to the exhibit, title, page, and line numbers. (Cal. R. Ct., 3.1350(f)(2).)  In their response to Defendant’s asserted fact Number 5, Plaintiffs fail to state the nature of the dispute and fail to describe the evidence that supports the position that the fact is controverted with citation to “the exhibit, title, page, and line numbers” of “the evidence in support of the position that a fact is controverted….”(Cal. R. Ct., 3.1350(f)(2).) Rather, Plaintiffs merely repeat their evidentiary objection, which, as stated above, the Court overrules.  Thus, the Court finds that it is undisputed that Martin Cadillac delivered the Vehicle to its original owners(s) on March 20, 2017, and that Defendant sufficiently shows that, while Defendant distributed the Vehicle to Martin Cadillac which sold the Vehicle to its original owners, Defendant did not distribute the Vehicle to Plaintiff Carlos Distrito, but that Direct Wholesale Motors dba Hermosa Motors instead distributed the Vehicle to him.   In its separate statement, Defendant asserts that Direct Wholesale Motors dba Hermosa Motors is not a GM-authorized dealership. (Defendant’s SSUMF No. 3.)   In response, Plaintiffs contend such fact is “disputed,” indicating that “¿Plaintiffs purchased the Vehicle, which was manufactured and distributed by GM. (Pltfs.’ Decl., Ex. 1.).” (Plaintiffs’ Response to Defendant’s SSUMF No. 3.) However, the bare assertion that the Vehicle was “manufactured and distributed” by Defendant does not mean that Defendant played any role in the sale of the Vehicle to Plaintiff Carlos Distrito by Direct Wholesale Motors dba Hermosa Motors, and Plaintiffs’ Exhibit 1 is merely the Purchase Agreement, which also does not show that Defendant played any role in the sale of the Vehicle to Plaintiff Carlos Distrito, as opposed to distributing the Vehicle to the original buyer(s). It is undisputed that Plaintiffs were not the Vehicle’s original owners. (Plaintiffs’ Response to Defendant’s SSUMF No. 4.)   Plaintiff Carlos Distrito does not set forth any evidence that Defendant played any role in the sale of the Vehicle to Plaintiff Carlos Distrito by Direct Wholesale Motors dba Hermosa Motors. While Plaintiffs suggest in their opposition that Defendant “partnered” with Direct Wholesale Motors dba Hermosa Motors, (Opposition at p. 5), Plaintiffs fail to provide any supporting evidence. As discussed above, the Court finds that Plaintiffs fail to sufficiently dispute that “Direct Wholesale Motors dba Hermosa Motors is not a GM-authorized dealership.” (Plaintiffs’ Response to Defendant’s SSUMF No. 3.)  Thus, for the foregoing reasons, the Court finds that Defendant sustains its initial burden to show no triable issue of material fact with respect to whether Defendant played any role in the sale of the Vehicle to Plaintiff Carlos Distrito by Direct Wholesale Motors dba Hermosa Motors, and that Plaintiff Carlos Distrito fails to sufficiently show the existence of a triable issue of material fact concerning whether Defendant, as the manufacturer and distributor of the Vehicle to its original owners(s), may be liable for breach of the implied warranty of merchantability.   Accordingly, assuming Defendant is entitled to judgment as a matter of law with respect to the First, Second, and Third Causes of Action, then Defendant is entitled to summary judgment of the entire action.   3. Vehicle Not A “New Motor Vehicle” and No New or Additional Warranty Coverage Provided with Purchase of  Vehicle   Defendant contends that they are entitled to summary adjudication of the First, Second, and Third Causes of Action on the ground that Plaintiff Carlos Distrito did not purchase a “new motor vehicle” as defined by the Song-Beverly Consumer Warranty Act, and did not receive any new or additional warranty coverage from Defendant with the purchase of the Vehicle. (Motion at pp. 8-10.)  In Jensen v. BMW of North America, Inc. (1995) 35 Cal.App.4th 112 the Court of Appeal held that a used or pre-owed motor vehicle that is sold or leased with any balance remaining on the manufacturer's new motor vehicle warranty is also included within the SBA’s definition of “new motor vehicle.” (Id. at 113.)  In Rodriguez v. FCA US, LLC (2022) 77 Cal.App.5th 209, the Court of Appeal held that used vehicles, purchased from a retail seller unaffiliated with manufacturers, do not statutorily qualify as new motor vehicles, when there is a balance remaining on manufacturers’ warranties. (Id. at pp. 223-224.) The California Supreme Court granted review, and on October 31, 2024, published its opinion, Rodriguez v. FCA US, LLC (2024) 326 Cal.Rptr.3d 440.  The California Supreme Court affirmed the Court of Appeal’s opinion in Rodriguez v. FCA US, LLC (2022) 77 Cal.App.5th 209 and disapproved of Jensen, holding that a motor vehicle purchased with an unexpired manufacturer's new car warranty does not qualify as a motor vehicle sold with a manufacturer's new car warranty under the Song-Beverly Consumer Warranty Act’s definition of “new motor vehicle” unless the new car warranty was issued with the sale. (Id. at 443-450.) Here, the Complaint alleges that Defendant breached the “New Vehicle Limited Warranty” attached to the Complaint as Exhibit A and provided as evidence by Defendant. (Jensen Decl. at ¶ 7, Ex. C.)  Defendant provides evidence that the Vehicle was purchased used and, while the “New Vehicle Limited Warranty” had not expired when Plaintiff Carlos Distrito purchased the Vehicle, Defendant did not issue or provide any new or additional warranty coverage to Plaintiffs or the Vehicle. (Jensen Decl. at ¶¶ 7-8, Exs. C-D; Alexandria O. Pappas Decl., ¶ 3, Ex. A; see Defendant’s SSUMF Nos. 2, 6-8.)  Although Plaintiffs contend the facts asserted in Defendant’s separate statement Numbers 6, 7, and 8 are “Disputed,” as with their response to Defendant’s asserted fact Number 5, discussed above, Plaintiffs fail, for each asserted fact, to state the nature of the dispute and fail to describe the evidence that supports the position that the fact is controverted with citation to “the exhibit, title, page, and line numbers” of “the evidence in support of the position that a fact is controverted…,”(Cal. R. Ct., 3.1350(f)(2)), but instead merely repeat their evidentiary objections, which, as stated above, the Court overrules.  Thus, the Court finds that these facts are undisputed, and that Defendant sustains its initial burden to show no triable issue of material fact with respect to whether the Vehicle is a “new motor vehicle” under the Song-Beverly Consumer Warranty Act.   Plaintiffs do not provide any evidence that Defendant provided any new or additional warranty coverage to Plaintiff with the purchase of the Vehicle.  Thus, the Court finds that Plaintiff Carlos Distrito fails to sustain his burden to show the existence of a triable issue of fact.  Accordingly, pursuant to the California Supreme Court’s decision in Rodriguez v. FCA US, LLC (2024) 326 Cal.Rptr.3d 440, the Court finds there is no triable issue of material fact as to whether the Vehicle qualifies as a motor vehicle sold with a manufacturer's new car warranty under the Song-Beverly Consumer Warranty Act’s definition of “new motor vehicle.”  In Opposition, Plaintiffs argue that Rodriguez v. FCA US, LLC (2024) 326 Cal.Rptr.3d 440 “¿does not affect Plaintiffs’ Second, Third, and Fourth Causes of Action” because the “new motor vehicle” limitation does not carry over to claims made pursuant to Civil Code section 1793.2, subdivision (a)(3) and (b). (Opposition at pp. 4-5.)  The Court rejects Plaintiffs’ arguments.    Civil Code section 1793.2, subdivisions (a) and (b) set forth the obligations of a manufacturer who has made an express warranty, (Civ. Code, § 1793.2(a)-(b)), and Civil Code section 1793.2, subdivision (d) sets forth the remedies for the manufacturer’s failure to comply with these obligations. (Civ. Code, § 1793.2(d).) As explained by the California Supreme Court in Rodriguez:  The Song-Beverly Consumer Warranty Act provides buyers of new motor vehicles with specific remedies when a vehicle turns out to be defective. Section 1793.2, subdivision (d)(2) gives new car buyers what is known as a refund-or-replace remedy: It requires manufacturers to “promptly replace” a defective new motor vehicle or “promptly make restitution” to the buyer when the manufacturer is “unable to service or repair a new motor vehicle, as that term is defined in paragraph (2) of subdivision (e) of Section 1793.22, to conform to the applicable express warranties after a reasonable number of attempts.” These enhanced remedies under the Act for breach of express warranty are “distinct from” and “in addition to” remedies otherwise available in contract under the California Uniform Commercial Code.  (Rodriguez, supra, 326 Cal.Rptr.3d at 442 (internal citations omitted).)  All of Plaintiffs’ claims alleged in the Complaint allege that Defendant is liable under the Song-Beverly Consumer Warranty Act and seek the remedies available under the Song-Beverly Consumer Warranty Act. (Compl. at ¶¶ 24-42; id. at Prayer for Relief.)  Yet, as explained by the California Supreme Court in Rodriguez:  …the Act's remedies for failure to repair a used product in conformity with an express warranty have applicability where the express warranty accompanies the sale of the product. For new products, liability extends to the manufacturer; for used products, liability extends to the distributor or retail seller and not to the manufacturer, at least where the manufacturer has not issued a new warranty or played a substantial role in the sale of a used good. In both cases, the Act's protections are premised on an express warranty arising from the product's sale. Against this backdrop, it would be anomalous to construe “other motor vehicle sold with a manufacturer's new car warranty to include any used car sold by a distributor or retailer with a preexisting, unexpired manufacturer's warranty. (Rodriguez, supra, 326 Cal.Rptr.3d at 448.)  Since the Court finds there is no triable issue of material fact regarding whether the Vehicle qualifies as a motor vehicle sold with a manufacturer's new car warranty under the Song-Beverly Consumer Warranty Act’s definition of “new motor vehicle,” the Court finds, pursuant to the California Supreme Court’s decision in Rodriguez, that there is no triable issue of material fact as to whether Defendant, the manufacturer but not the distributor of the Vehicle to Plaintiffs, can be liable under the Song-Beverly Consumer Warranty Act.  The Court also notes that, while Plaintiffs cite to Stiles v. Kia Motors America, Inc. (2024) 101 Cal.App.5th 913, (Opposition at p. 4), Stiles approved and followed Jensen, which was disapproved of by the California Supreme Court’s decision in Rodriguez. Thus, any reliance by Plaintiffs reliance on Stiles is misplaced.   For all the foregoing reasons, the Court finds that Defendant is entitled to summary adjudication of the First, Second, and Third Causes of Action.  Since the Court also finds, as discussed above, that Defendant is entitled to judgment as a matter of law with respect to the Fourth Cause of Action and judgment as a matter of law with respect to all of Plaintiff Rudy Distrito’s claims, the Court GRANTS Defendant’s Motion for Summary Judgment.  As such, the Court does not address Defendant’s remaining argument because it assumes that Defendant may be liable under the Song-Beverly Consumer Warranty Act.   .  