 Case Number:  23STCV20007    Hearing Date:   May 9, 2024    Dept:  17 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
 
DEPARTMENT
17
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 



LUCAS VILLANUEVA, a minor, by and through
  his Guardian ad Litem Cristina Olivares 
  
        
  vs.
 
SOUTHERN
  CALIFORNIA PERMANENTE MEDICAL GROUP., et al.  
 


 Case
  No.:  23STCV20007
 
 
 
 Hearing Date: May 9, 2024



 
Defendant’s motion to compel arbitration
is GRANTED, and this action is ordered stayed pending the completion of
proceedings. 
            
            On
8/21/2023, Plaintiff Lucas Villanueva (Plaintiff), a minor, by and though his
Guardian ad Litem Cristina Olivares, filed suit against Southern California
Permanente Medical Group, Kaiser Foundation Hospitals, and Kaiser Foundation
Health Plan, Inc. (collectively, Defendants), alleging general negligence. 
 
            Now,
Defendants move for an order compelling arbitration of Plaintiff’s Complaint,
and staying this action pending the completion of arbitration proceedings. 
 
Legal Standard 
 
Where the Court has determined that an agreement to
arbitrate a controversy exists, the Court shall order the petitioner and the
respondent to arbitrate the controversy …unless it determines that…  grounds exist for rescission of the agreement.”
(Code Civ. Proc., § 1281.2.) Among the grounds which can support rescission are
fraud, duress, and unconscionability. (Tiri
v. Lucky Chances, Inc. (2014) 226 Cal.App.4th 231, 239.) The Court may also
decline to compel arbitration wherein there is possibility of conflicting
rulings on a common issue of law or fact. (Code Civ. Proc., § 1281.2 (c).) 
 
Discussion 
 
The party moving to compel arbitration “bears the burden
of proving [the] existence [of an arbitration agreement] by a preponderance of
the evidence.” (Rosenthal v. Great
Western Fin. Securities Corp. (1996) 14 Cal.4th 394, 413.) The moving party
also bears the burden of demonstrating that the claims fall within the scope of
the arbitration agreement. (Omar v.
Ralphs Grocery Co. (2004) 118 Cal.App.4th 955, 961.)
 
A.   
Existing Agreement
 
Defendant
submitted evidence that at the time of the medical services at issues, Ms.
Olivares was enrolled as a Health Plan member under the LA County
Agreement/EOC, and she sought and received medical services thereunder. She
initially enrolled as a Health Plan member under the LA County Agreement/EOC
effective October 1, 2012, and she elected Kaiser and renewed her enrollment
each year thereafter through the present time. (Petition, Ex. B; Vasques Decl.,
¶ 6.)
 
In
opposition, Plaintiff argues that has no memory of being presented with this
Arbitration Agreement: “When I enrolled in health care coverage with Defendants
through the LA County online enrollment system in 2012, and when I renewed
annually thereafter, I do not recall seeing any pop-up screens or any other
prominent arbitration disclosure during this application process, and I did not
review the terms of any arbitration agreement.” (Olivares Decl., ¶ 5.)  Plaintiff also argues that the arbitration
provision is not prominently displayed.
 
However, as
to the first contention, while Plaintiff states she has no memory of agreeing
to the arbitration provision, Defendants records indicate that she did.
(Vasques Decl., ¶ 6.) Moreover, Plaintiff would not have been able to move
forward with Kaiser enrollment if she had not agreed and Plaintiff accepted and
obtained the benefits of Kaiser enrollment for many years. 
 
As to the
second contention, for purposes of Health & Safety Code § 1363.1(b),
“prominent” or “prominently displayed” is defined as “standing out from its
surroundings” (Burks v. Kaiser Foundation Health Plan, Inc. (2008) 160
Cal.App.4th 1021, 1028-29) or as “readily noticeable” (Imbler v. PacifiCare
of Cal. Inc. (2002) 103 Cal.App.4th 567, 579) Here, Defendant attached an
“exemplar copy of the web enrollment screen arbitration disclosure” and an
electronic record “[logging Plaintiff’s] activities on the web enrollment
system, including her acceptance of the arbitration agreement.” (Petition, Exs.
C, D-1 & E.) This shows that the arbitration disclosures appear on a
separate screen, are preceded by the title “Kaiser Arbitration” in large font,
followed by a bold and underlined heading, “Kaiser Foundation Health
Plan, Inc. and Kaiser Permanente Insurance Company Arbitration Agreement”,
followed by the arbitration disclosure in clear and bold font, appearing by
itself with no other topics or unrelated provisions. The Court agrees that this
layout satisfies the requirements of Health & Safety Code § 1363.1(b),
 
            Based
on the foregoing, the Court finds that the preponderance of evidence indicates
that a binding arbitration agreement exists between Plaintiff and Defendants. (Rosenthal,
supra, 14 Cal.4th at p. 413.)  
 
B.   
Covered Claims 
 
 
The Binding
Arbitration provision states, in part: 
 
Binding
Arbitration 
 
For all
claims subject to this “Binding Arbitration” section, both Claimants and
Respondents give up the right to a jury or court trial and accept the use of
binding arbitration. . . . 
 
Scope
of arbitration 
            
Any dispute
shall be submitted to binding arbitration if all of the following requirements
are met: 
 
·       
The claim arises from or is related to
an alleged violation of any duty incident to or arising out of or relating to
this EOC or a Member Party’s relationship to Kaiser Foundation Health Plan,
Inc. (Health Plan), including any claim for medical or hospital malpractice (a
claim that medical services were unnecessary or unauthorized or were
improperly, negligently, or incompetently rendered), for premises liability, or
relating to the coverage for, or delivery of, services or items, irrespective
of the legal theories upon which the claim is asserted.
·       
The claim is asserted by one or more
Member Parties against one or more Kaiser Permanente Parties or by one or more
Kaiser Permanente Parties against one or more Member Parties.
·       
Governing law does not prevent the use
of binding arbitration to resolve the claim 
 
Members
enrolled under this EOC thus give up their right to a court or jury trial, and
instead accept the use of binding arbitration except that the following types
of claims are not subject to binding arbitration: 
·       
Claims within the jurisdiction of the
Small Claims Court 
·       
Claims subject to a Medicare appeal
procedure as applicable to Kaiser Permanente Senior Advantage Members
·       
Claims that cannot be subject to
binding arbitration under governing law
 
As referred
to in this “Binding Arbitration” section, “Member Parties” include: 
·       
A Member
·       
A Member’s heir, relative, or personal
representative
·       
Any person claiming that a duty to him
or her arises from a Member’s relationship to one or more Kaiser Permanente
Parties
            
(Petition,
Exh. A.) 
 
Here,
Plaintiff’s claim in this action arise out of the LA County Agreement/EOC under
which Ms. Olivares was enrolled, and thus are covered within the scope of the
arbitration agreement. 
 
Given that
Defendants have established by a preponderance of the evidence that an
arbitration agreement exists, and that Plaintiff’s claims are covered by that
agreement, the burden shifts to the Plaintiff to establish that the arbitration
clause should not be enforced. (Pinnacle
Museum Tower Assn. v. Pinnacle Market Development (US), LLC (2012) 55
Cal.4th 223, 236. (Pinnacle).)
 
II.              
Plaintiff’s Burden  
 
The party
opposing arbitration bears the burden of proving, by a preponderance of the
evidence any defense, such as unconscionability or duress. (Pinnacle, supra, 55 Cal.4th at p. 236.) 
 
“Unconscionability has both procedural
and substantive elements. Although both must appear for a court to invalidate a
contract or one of its individual terms, they need not be present in the same
degree: ‘[T]he more substantively oppressive the contract term, the less
evidence of procedural unconscionability is required to come to the conclusion
that the term is unenforceable, and vice versa.’”  (Roman
v. Superior Court (2009) 172 Cal.App.4th 1462, 1469. (Roman).) Where the degree of procedural unconscionability is low,
“the agreement will be enforceable unless the degree of substantive
unconscionability is high.” (Ajamian v.
CantorCO2e (2012) 203 Cal.App.4th 771, 796 (Ajamian).)
 
Plaintiff
argues that the agreement is procedurally unconscionable because it is an
adhesion contract and does not include arbitration rules. Plaintiff argues the
agreement is substantively unconscionable because it imposes unfair costs on
Plaintiff. 
 
However,
Plaintiff’s first contention ignores the fact that Plaintiff had a choice of
various health plans as an employee of the County of Los Angeles. As such,
while Plaintiff was not able to opt out of arbitration if she wished to be
enrolled at Kaiser, Plaintiff was free to select other health care options if
she did not wish to opt into Kaiser’s arbitration requirement. 
 
Plaintiff’s
second contention ignores that the rules of arbitration were incorporated in
the agreement, and that failure to attach them, on its own, is not grounds for
procedural unconscionability. (Brinkley v. Monterey Financial Services
(2015) 242 Cal.App.4th 314, 341-42) (this is “not a ground for concluding the
entire arbitration agreement is procedurally unconscionable;” the rules were
“easily accessible,” “available on the Internet,” and plaintiff was “already
online completing the e-signature process”; and citing cases). Here the
Arbitration Agreement provides: “If you have questions about the Rules, please
call the OIA at (213) 637-9847, email us at oia@oia-kaiserarb.com, or visit the
OIA’s website at www.oiakaiserarb.com. Copies of the Rules for Kaiser member
arbitrations, forms, and other helpful items can be found at the OIA website.”
(Petition, Exh. F, p. 22.) 
 
As such, the
Court finds no evidence of procedural unconscionability based on the adhesive
nature of Kaiser’s arbitration provisions or the failure to attach rules. 
 
As for
substantive unconscionability,       in
opposition, Plaintiff argues that the agreement is substantively unconscionable
because the Arbitration Agreement requires a three-person arbitration panel,
with each side paying for its own “party arbitrator” and paying half of the
neutral arbitrator’s fees. This would likely lead to fees vastly more expensive
than that anticipated by a civil case, and Ms. Olivares stated in arbitration
that it would be a “crushing” financial burden. (Olivares Decl. ¶ 3.) While the
Agreement offers an option to have arbitration be conducted a single neutral
arbitrator, Plaintiff would have to agree that his damages are worth no more
than $200,000. Plaintiff’s claim—which is based on allegations that Defendants’
negligence lead him to suffer since birth from severe pain, physical
disability, disfigurement, emotional anxiety, and an disruption of his nervous
system—alleges damages much higher than $200,000. As such, this option would
force Plaintiff’s family to either take on a great financial burden or agree to
a damages cap which greatly limits his ability to recover damages.    
 
While the Court is deeply sympathetic to this concern,
Plaintiff has not presented the Court with sufficient evidence to grant the
requested relief. In opposition, Plaintiff cites cases like Hang v. RG
Legacy I, LLC (2023) 88 Cal.App.5th 1243 and Roldan v.
Callahan & Blaine (2013) 219 Cal.App.4th 87, 97 to show that
the Court, while unable to order Defendants to pay Plaintiff’s share of fees,
can give Defendants a choice: “if the trial
court determines that any of these plaintiffs is unable to share in the cost of
the arbitration, [Defendant] can elect to either pay that plaintiff's share of
the arbitration cost and remain in arbitration or waive its right to arbitrate
that plaintiff's claim.” (Roldan, supra, 219 Cal.App.4th at p.
98.) 
 
However, in both Hang and Roldan,
Plaintiffs were indigent, and were unable to pay any portion of the arbitration
fees. Here, by contrast, Ms. Olivares does not claim to be indigent, and also
does not clarify what portion of fees, if any, she would be able to cover. 
 
Rather, the only
evidence submitted by Ms. Olivares to show that she is unable to cover the
costs of arbitration is a single statement in declaration:
 
I
am unable to pay those fees, and they would be a crushing financial burden. I
do not have savings or assets that would enable me to pay thousands of dollars
in arbitration fees, much less a hundred thousand or more. I am the primary
source of income for our family. The income from my employment business is only
approximately $60,000 annually. Because of Lucas’ severe and serious injuries
resulting from Defendants’ negligence at birth, Lucas requires a significant
amount of care on a daily basis, which leaves me unable to work additional time
to supplement my income.
 
(Olivares
Decl., ¶ 9.)
 
As such, Ms. Olivares has not submitted any evidence of
financial status or ability to pay beyond this single statement in declaration.
She does not submit any financial documents to clarify her household’s
financial condition or savings, nor does she clarify By contrast, the determination
in Hang was supported by “substantial evidence” including “declarations and exhibits [submitted by the estate’s
representative] showing that former resident's sole income when he died was
$826 per month in Social Security benefits, that all funds in his trust account
at facility were used to pay for his funeral and burial expenses, and that his
estate had no other assets or property.” (Hang, supra, 88 Cal.App.5th
at p. 1255.) 
 
Moreover, in reply, Kaiser indicates
that the requirement that Plaintiff remit damages over $200,000 is a statutory
provision, rather than something required by Kaiser’s agreement. (See
Health & Saf. Code § 1373.19.) Kaiser also indicated that it will waive the
use of party arbitrators, which results in “(1) neutral arbitrator
cost-shifting to Kaiser and (2) no need to appoint or pay a party arbitrator.
“(OIA, Rule 15(a)(ii).)  Accordingly, the
Court finds that Plaintiff’s concerns over an ability to pay are mitigated by
Kaiser’s waiver of the use of party arbitrators in this matter. 
 
Based on the foregoing, Defendant’s
motion to compel arbitration is granted, and this action is ordered stayed
pending the completion of proceedings. 
 
It is so ordered. 
 
Dated:  May   
, 2024
                                                                                                                                                           
   Hon. Jon R.
Takasugi
   Judge of the
Superior Court
 
 
 
Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must
send an email to the court at smcdept17@lacourt.org
by 4 p.m. the day prior as directed by the instructions provided on the court
website at www.lacourt.org.  If a party submits
on the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must
identify the party submitting on the tentative. 
If all parties to a motion submit, the court will adopt this
tentative as the final order.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  For more information, please contact the court clerk at (213)
633-0517.  
 
 