  Case Number:  21STCV14842    Hearing Date:   May 9, 2024    Dept:  17 Superior
Court of California
County
of Los Angeles
 
DEPARTMENT 17
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 



BROADCAST
  MUSIC, INC 
  
           Plaintiff in Interpleader 
 
                           
         vs.
 
ALEXANDER
  COLLIN BAKER, et al. 
 
                                          


 Case No.: 
  21STCV14842
 
 
 
 Hearing
  Date:  May 9, 2024



 
Adam Bravery’s
motion for summary judgment is DENIED.  
 
            On
4/20/2021, Broadcast Music, Inc (BMI) filed an complaint in interpleader
against Alexander Collin Baker (Baker), Clara Veseliza Baker aka Clair Marlo,
and Adam Bravery, LLC (Bravery, LLC). 
 
On 8/17/2021,
Baker and Bravery, LLC filed a cross-complaint (XC) against BMI and Erika
Stallings, alleging: (1) declaratory judgment; (2) declaratory judgment; (3)
breach of contract; (4) breach of fiduciary duty; (5) constructive fraud; (6)
intentional infliction of emotional distress; and (7) fraudulent inducement
 
            On
2/23/2024, Adam Bravery, LLC (Bravery) moves for summary judgment. 
 
Discussion 
 
            Bravery
contends that there are no triable issues of material fact remaining as to who
is the rightful payee of the BMI royalties on deposit with the Court. 
 
            After
review, the Court denies Bravery’s motion. 
 
            The
following facts are undisputed: 
 
-        
Baker and Marlo are songwriters. (UMF
No. 1.) 
 
-        
On July 7, 2016, Family Court Judge
Virginia Keeny signed a Stipulation and Order in the Baker-Marlo Dissolution
Action LD068701 (the “July 2016 Order”) that provided: “Without prejudice and
subject to reallocation at time of trial, all royalty payments received by
either party from any source, for creative work from 1-11-1995 through 4-7-15
will be shared and paid 50/50”. (UMF No. 2.) 
 
-        
The July 2016 Order further provided:
“Neither party shall sell, transfer, assign, or make any deal whatsoever with
any third party for any work created between 1-11-95 through 4-7-15 without the
written consent of the other or court order.” (UMF No. 3.)
 
-        
On July 18, 2016, Baker and Marlo
signed and sent letters of direction to various royalty paying entities
including BMI. (Marlo Exhibit D)
 
-        
In response to that July 18, 2016
letter of direction, BMI began paying the royalties due to Baker and Marlo
50/50 on works from 1-11-95.
 
-        
Subsequently, on April 12, 2017, Baker
executed a BMI Royalty Assignment Form that purported to assign royalties
earned on all works in his BMI catalogue to Write Hear, LLC. (UMF No. 8.) Upon
receipt of the 2017 assignment by Baker, BMI accepted and processed the 2017
assignment in the ordinary course and subsequently made payments to Write Hear
LLC in accordance therewith. (UMF No. 10.) 
 
-        
In 2018, Baker and two other partners
formed Adam Bravery, LLC. (UMF No. 11.) 
 
-        
In July 2018, Baker, on behalf of Write
Hear, LLC, assigned the royalties (“Assigned Royalties”) to Adam Bravery, LLC.
(UMF No. 13.) 
 
-        
Upon receipt of the 2018 assignment by
Baker on behalf of Write Hear LLC, BMI accepted and processed the 2018
assignment in the ordinary course and subsequently and payments to Adam Bravery
LLC in accordance therewith. (UMF No. 14.) 
 
-        
In the weeks before November 7, 2019,
Marlo learned of Baker’s assignment of BMI royalties first to Write Hear, LLC
and then to Adam Bravery and brought an OSC re contempt against Baker for
violation of at least the July 2016 Stipulation and Order. On November 7, 2019,
the Family Court considered Marlo’s OSC re contempt against Baker, dismissed
the OSC re contempt, and found that “all issues should be litigated at time of
trial.” (Marlo Exhibit G)
 
-        
In response to this order on the OSC
and other disputes raised by Marlo, she is informed that BMI began holding
Baker’s BMI royalty revenue stream in or about March 2020. Subsequently, BMI
filed the instant interpleader action asking this Court to resolve the dispute
as to who among Baker, Marlo, and Adam Bravery, is the proper party to receive
the held royalty stream. 
 
-        
In its 9/20/2021 ruling, this Court
found that Marlo’s claims regarding the validity of the royalty assignment, and
her claim of an ownership interest in the assigned royalties was to be decided
in Family Court. On that basis, from 3/20/2020 to 11/7/2022, BMI withheld a
total of $72,631.86 from Bravery. (UMF Nos. 42, 47.) 
 
-        
The Family Court judgment found: 
 
The evidence
[admitted in Family Court] establishes that the Alex Royalty Assignments were
done to intentionally interfere with and avoid Clara's attempt to collect from
Alex the Federal Attorney Fee Judgment and to further insulate himself from
payment of the various reimbursement he owes Clara hereunder. And while this
Court has authority to set aside transfers of community property even without
joinder of the third-party transferees, it need not do that here because Alex
recognizes the primacy of this Court's jurisdiction over community property. In
other words, the Court need not reach the issue of whether the Alex Royalty
Assignments violated the Royalty Stipulation or the ATRO's because Alex has
assigned only his right to payment to the Community Royalties Estate, all the
while recognizing that this Court retains the right to arrange and allocate the
Community Property as is necessary to effectuate an equal distribution of the
Community Property.
 
Here, before
Alex could ever receive funds from the Community Royalties Estate, he needs to
repay Clara the Reimbursement Sum due herein. And the remaining balance of any
of Alex's remaining share of the Community Royalties Estate is being
reallocated to Clara as a sanction here under Section 271(c). There is thus no
need to make any further rulings or findings with respect to the Alex Royalty
Assignments. They are of no import because in effect, the entirety of the
Community Royalties Estate is ultimately awarded to Clara for payment of the
Reimbursement Sum and Sanctions. There is nothing for Alex to assign to third
parties, save for his separate property interests as set forth in the Song
List.”
 
                                    (UMF
No. 35.)
 
            However,
entirely absent from the Family Law Court ruling is any determination that the
royalty assignment was valid or that Marlo’s claim of ownership interest was
invalid. As such, the Court finds no basis for applying the doctrine of res
judicata here. One of the elements of res judicata is that the prior proceeding
must result in a final judgment on the merits. Such cannot be said about a
ruling which did not reach any conclusion on this issue. (Bucur v. Ahmad (2016)
244 Cal.App.4th 175, 177.) 
 
            Accordingly,
the question of whether or not the assignments were valid or whether Marlo has
an ownership interest in the assigned royalties has not been adjudicated. 
 
            Indeed,
Bravery’s own motion seems to suggest that the November 22 Family Law Order was
not decided in its favor: “Bravery LLC makes this motion because there
are no triable issues of material fact relevant to deciding who is the rightful
payee of the BMI royalties on deposit with the Court. Pursuant to the July 2016
Order of the Family Court, the withheld royalties are rightly payable to
Alexander C. Baker. Pursuant to a 2018 assignment, Adam Bravery LLC became the
rightful payee of the withheld royalties. This remained true until November
2022, when the Family Court awarded the entirety of the royalty stream to Marlo.”
(2:7-12, emphasis added.) This uncertainty exists throughout the entirety of
Bravery’s motion. 
 
            Unfortunately,
Marlo’s opposition offers no greater clarity, simultaneously arguing that
triable issues exist and that she is entitled to a judgment as a matter of law
despite acknowledging that she has no pending motion which could possibly grant
her that relief. 
 
            Taken
together, the Court finds itself unable to make sense of Bravery’s motion. In
particular, the Court is troubled by the following facts:
 
-        
First, this Court determined that the
dispute over the royalty assignment was solely within the jurisdiction of the
Family Law Court. Bravery offers no explanation as to why it now puts this
question before this Court, and how this does not amount to a request for
reconsideration of a long ago motion. 
 
-        
Second, while asking this Court to take
up the question of the validity of the royalty assignment, Bravery
simultaneously contends that this question is barred from re-litigation by the
res judicata doctrine.
 
-        
Third, there is nothing in the 2022
Family Order which indicates a determination of the assignment issue.
 
-        
Fourth, Bravery’s own motion at once
states that it is the rightful ownership of the withheld royalty stream by virtue
of the 2022 Family Order and also states that the “Family Court awarded the
entirety of the royalty stream to Marlo” (Motion, 2: 11-12.)
 
As such, the
Court finds itself unable to take up the question of adjudication here. Bravery
may refile a motion if it is able to which addresses these deficiencies. 
 
Based on the
foregoing, Bravery’s motion for summary judgment is denied. 
 
 
 
It is so ordered. 
 
Dated:  May   
, 2024
                                                                                                                                                           
   Hon. Jon R.
Takasugi
   Judge of the
Superior Court
 
 
 
Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must
send an email to the court at smcdept17@lacourt.org
by 4 p.m. the day prior as directed by the instructions provided on the court
website at www.lacourt.org.  If a party submits
on the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must
identify the party submitting on the tentative. 
If all parties to a motion submit, the court will adopt this
tentative as the final order.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  For more information, please contact the court clerk at (213)
633-0517.  
 
 
 
 