 Case Number:  23SMCV03679    Hearing Date:   July 3, 2024    Dept:  M CASE NAME:           Sheriff v. LAC-MTA, et al.
CASE NO.:                23SMCV03679
MOTION:                  Motion
for Leave to File Cross-Complaint
HEARING DATE:   7/3/2024

 
Legal
Standard
 
Leave of court is required to file a compulsory
cross-complaint when it is not filed before or at the same time as the answer.
(CCP § 428.50(a), (c).) Where a party seeks leave to file a compulsory
cross-complaint, whether due to oversight, inadvertence, mistake, neglect, or
other cause, leave must be granted anytime during the course of litigation so
long as the defendant acted in good faith. (CCP § 426.50.) Leave should be
liberally granted to avoid forfeiture of causes of action. (Id.)
 
“Factors such as oversight, inadvertence, neglect, mistake
or other cause, are insufficient grounds to deny the motion unless accompanied
by bad faith.” (Silver Organizations Ltd. v. Frank¿(1990) 217 Cal.App.3d
94, 99.) “[The] principle of liberality requires that a strong showing of bad
faith be made in order to support a denial of the right to file a
cross-complaint under this section.” (Foot's Transfer & Storage Co. v.
Superior Court (1980) 114 Cal.App.3d 897, 902.) To establish bad faith, the
opposing party must show “actual or constructive fraud, or a design to mislead
or deceive another, or a neglect or refusal to fulfill some duty or some
contractual obligation, not prompted by an honest mistake ..., but by some
interested or sinister motive[,] ... not simply bad judgment or negligence, but
rather ... the conscious doing of a wrong because of dishonest purpose or moral
obliquity; ... [bad faith] contemplates a state of mind affirmatively operating
with furtive design or ill will.” (Id. at 100.) While the good faith
requirement gives courts a “modicum of discretion,” the law strongly favors
granting leave. (Sidney v. Superior Court (1988) 198 Cal.App.3d 710,
718.) 
 
Analysis
 
Defendants Los Angeles County Metropolitan Transportation
Authority and Anahi Castillejos will move the court for an Order granting leave
to file a cross-complaint. (Kohrs Decl., Ex. 1.) Defendants assert that they
have discovered a video which reveals that the subject accident was actually
caused by Plaintiff’s Uber passenger, when he opened the rear door of
Plaintiff’s vehicle into the lane of the passing bus. Defendants therefore seek
leave of court to file a cross-complaint against Plaintiff and his unknown
passenger for indemnification and damages to the bus. The motion is unopposed. There
is no bad faith apparent from the record. Accordingly, the motion is GRANTED.
 
Defendant to file the
cross-complaint within 5 days.