  Case Number:  22SMCV01405    Hearing Date:   July 3, 2024    Dept:  M CASE NAME:             Heeke, et al., v. Golden
Empire Nursing & Rehab Center LP, et al. 
CASE NO.:                   22SMCV01405
MOTION:                     Demurrer to the
Complaint  
HEARING DATE:   7/3/2024
 
LEGAL STANDARD 
 
A demurrer for sufficiency tests whether
the complaint states a cause of action. (Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147
Cal.App.4th 740, 747.) When considering demurrers, courts read the allegations
liberally and in context. In a demurrer proceeding, the defects must be
apparent on the face of the pleading or via proper judicial notice. (Donabedian
v. Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994.) A demurrer tests the
pleadings alone and not the evidence or other extrinsic matters. Therefore, it
lies only where the defects appear on the face of the pleading or are
judicially noticed. (CCP §§ 430.30, 430.70.) At the pleading stage, a plaintiff
need only allege ultimate facts sufficient to apprise the defendant of the
factual basis for the claim against him. (Semole v. Sansoucie (1972) 28
Cal. App. 3d 714, 721.) A “demurrer does not, however, admit contentions,
deductions or conclusions of fact or law alleged in the pleading, or the
construction of instruments pleaded, or facts impossible in law.” (S. Shore
Land Co. v. Petersen (1964) 226 Cal.App.2d 725, 732, internal citations
omitted.) 
 
A special demurrer for uncertainty is
disfavored and will only be sustained where the pleading is so bad that
defendant cannot reasonably respond—i.e., cannot reasonably determine what
issues must be admitted or denied, or what counts or claims are directed
against him/her. (CCP § 430.10(f); Khoury v. Maly’s of Calif., Inc.
(1993) 14 Cal.App.4th 612, 616.) Moreover, even if the pleading is somewhat
vague, “ambiguities can be clarified under modern discovery procedures.” (Ibid.)  
 
Any party, within the time allowed to
respond to a pleading may serve and file a notice of motion to strike the whole
or any part thereof. (CCP § 435(b)(1); Cal. Rules of Court, Rule 3.1322(b).)
The court may, upon a motion or at any time in its discretion and upon terms it
deems proper: (1) strike out any irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted
in any pleading; or (2) strike out all or any part of any pleading not drawn or
filed in conformity with the laws of California, a court rule, or an order of
the court. (CCP §§ 436(a)-(b); Stafford v. Shultz (1954) 42 Cal.2d 767,
782 [“Matter in a pleading which is not essential to the claim is surplusage;
probative facts are surplusage and may be stricken out or disregarded”].) 
 
“Liberality in permitting amendment is
the rule, if a fair opportunity to correct any defect has not been given.” (Angie
M. v. Superior Court (1995) 37 Cal.App.4th 1217, 1227.) It is an abuse of
discretion for the court to deny leave to amend where there is any reasonable
possibility that plaintiff can state a good cause of action. (Goodman v.
Kennedy (1976) 18 Cal.3d 335, 349.) The burden is on plaintiff to show¿in
what manner¿plaintiff can amend the complaint, and¿how¿that
amendment will change the legal effect of the pleading.¿(Id.) 
  
ANALYSIS 
 
Defendants
Susan Claydon, FNP and Christopher Claydon, M.D., Inc., demur to the fourth and
fifth counts for Elder Neglect of Plaintiffs Brenda Heeke, Brett Heeke, and
Darren Heeke’s Second Amended Complaint (SAC). Defendants also move to strike
the related remedies of attorneys’ fees and punitive damages.
 
To
establish a claim for Elder Abuse and Neglect under the statute, a plaintiff
must allege the following: (1) plaintiff is an elder or dependent adult; (2)
defendant had responsibility for meeting the basic needs of the elder or
dependent adult, such as nutrition, hydration, hygiene or medical care; (3)
defendant knew of conditions that made the elder or dependent adult unable to
provide for his or her own basic needs; (4) defendant denied or withheld goods
or services necessary to meet the elder or dependent adult’s basic needs,
either: (a) with knowledge that injury was substantially certain to befall the
elder or dependent adult malice, oppression, or fraud; or (b) with conscious
disregard of the high probability of such injury recklessness; and (5) the
neglect caused the elder or dependent adult to suffer physical harm, pain or
mental suffering. (Carter v. Prime Healthcare Paradise Valley LLC (2011)
198 Cal.App.4th 396, 407; Welf. & Inst. Code, § 15610.07.) Elder abuse must
be pleaded with particularity in accordance with the pleading rules governing
statutory claims. (Carter, supra, 198 Cal.App.4th at 407.)
 
A
claim of “neglect” by a person having the “care or custody” of an elder under
the Elder Abuse Act requires a caretaking or custodial relationship where a
person has assumed significant responsibility for attending to one or more of
those basic needs of the elder or dependent adult that an able-bodied and fully
competent adult would ordinarily be capable of managing without assistance,
which entails more than casual or limited interactions. (Winn v. Pioneer
Medical Group, Inc. (2016) 63 Cal.4th 148, 158; see Covenant Care, Inc.
v. Superior Court (2004) 32 Cal.4th 771, 779, 783.) Neglect covers
misconduct that is distinct from, but potentially overlapping with,
professional negligence. (Delaney v. Baker (1999) 20 Cal.4th 23, 33.) As
used in the Act, neglect refers not to the substandard performance of medical
services but, rather, to the failure of those responsible for attending to the
basic needs and comforts of elderly or dependent adults, regardless of their
professional standing, to carry out their custodial obligations. (Covenant Care,
supra, 32 Cal.4th at 783.) 
 
The
oppression, fraud, malice, or recklessness requirements can, together, be
understood as constituting an “egregiousness” standard for Elder Abuse
liability. (Carter, supra, 198 Cal.App.4th at 405.) Recklessness
requires deliberate disregard of a high degree of probability an injury will
occur. (Id.; see Delaney, supra, 20 Cal.4th at 40 [recklessness
found where defendant failed to attend to decedent’s advanced bedsores, despite
knowing of decedent’s deteriorating condition].) Further, there must be an allegation
of authorization or ratification on the part of a managing agent in order to
recover damages for dependent adult abuse against corporate defendants. (Welf.
& Inst. Code, § 15657(c); Civ. Code, § 3294(b).)
 
The
Claydon Defendants are Christopher Claydon, MD, Inc., a medical group, and
Susan Claydon, FNP. (SAC ¶¶ 21-22.) The Claydon Defendants were members of the
Interdisciplinary Team (“IDT”), which was responsible for Decedent’s treatment
plan. (Id.) The SAC alleges that the Claydon Defendants were primary care
providers, the attending physicians, and had both custodial and
professional duties to Decedent, including providing and supervising her
hydration. (SAC ¶ 24.) As primary care physicians, Claydon Defendants were
responsible for providing all necessary care services and managing health
concerns. (Id.) As her attending physicians, the Claydon Defendants were
responsible for regularly seeing, evaluating, and assessing, monitoring, and
authorizing all aspects of Decedent’s care and treatment. (SAC ¶ 25.) They were
also the medical directors of Golden Empire. (SAC ¶ 26.) 
 
Liberally
construing the entire SAC, the Court concludes that Plaintiffs still fail to
allege that the Claydon Defendants failed to hydrate Decedent as a basic need.
Instead, Plaintiffs have alleged that Claydon Defendants failed to provide
appropriate hydration as medical care. Plaintiffs argue that Claydon
Defendants neglected Decedent, because she was under the care and custody of
the Claydon Defendants and they had an ongoing responsibility for her “basic
daily needs” including assisting, monitoring, supervising, and assessing her
hydration status, which she was incapable of managing without assistance due to
dementia. (SAC ¶¶ 24, 65.) Plaintiffs note that the Act expressly recognizes
the “failure to prevent dehydration” as neglect. (Welf. & Inst. Code §
15610.57.) The Court concurs and fully recognizes that hydration may form a
basis for a custodial relationship, since a typical adult is reasonably
expected to manage their basic hydration needs. However, the Claydon
Defendants’ failure to provide hydration went beyond a failure to meet the basic
hydration needs of Decedent because the dehydration/need for hydration resulted
from Claydon’s medical treatment of Decedent. 
 
On
June 1, 2021, Claydon was concerned that Decedent was dehydrated and
malnourished. (SAC ¶ 29.) As a result of not having enough staff, and despite
Decedent’s care plan, Decedent was not provided with sufficient services to
ensure that she was well hydrated. (¶¶ 30, 68.) On August 31, 2021, Claydon
ordered Digoxin for Decedent after she “inexcusably failed to verify an ECG
machine misinterpretation of Ms. Heeke’s heart rate” which clearly showed she
was not in “atrial flutter.” (¶ 31.) The SAC alleges that for unknown reasons,
Claydon doubled the dose of Digoxin a week later, even though a known side
effect of Digoxin is dehydration. (Id.) Despite this increased need for
hydration, Claydon failed to take any action in response to Decedent displaying
the patent signs and symptoms of dehydration, including but not limited to her
feeling confused and tired. (¶ 32.) Throughout September, Claydon ignored symptoms
and lab results, failed to conduct any assessment of her hydration status, and
as a result, Decedent did not receive proper hydration. (¶¶ 33-36.) Moreover,
the same lab results showed that she was suffering from severe digoxin
poisoning, as dehydration prevented her from clearing the toxic amount
of Digoxin. (¶34.) Claydon Defendants ignored obvious signs and symptoms of
“both dehydration and digoxin toxicity” in her final weeks. (¶ 36.) On
September 27, 2021, Decedent indicated that she wanted direct treatment for
medical conditions, including IV fluids and artificially administered nutrition,
whereas she previously wanted only comfort-focused care. (¶ 37.) Decedent
continued to decline and eventually died on October 1, 2021, because of
dehydration and the toxic levels of Digoxin. (¶¶ 38-40.) 
 
The
SAC does not allege that Decedent was dehydrated because she did not receive
sufficient hydration to meet her daily basic needs. Instead, the SAC, much as
the FAC, makes clear that the increased hydration was a medical need, necessary
to address the toxic amount of Digoxin. The Claydon Defendants unnecessarily
prescribed digoxin for Decedent, which increased her risk for dehydration, and increased
her need for hydration in order to flush the drug out of her body. In the
context of this medical need, Claydon Defendants failed to provide appropriate
hydration for Decedent. Importantly, the SAC never distinguishes between any failure
to provide sufficient hydration for Decedent’s basic needs, as opposed to the
medical need cited throughout the SAC. (See SAC ¶¶31-38.) Plaintiffs argue that
Decedent did not become dehydrated because of the medication, rather she became
dehydrated because she did not get enough fluids. However, in the context
provided, Plaintiffs need to allege that Defendants failed to provide for
Decedent’s basic hydration needs, rather than a need for fluids
resulting from a medical prescription. Therefore, as currently formulated, the
alleged neglect sounds in medical malpractice rather than a failure to attend
to a basic need.
 
Throughout
the original complain and the FAC, the allegations make clear that the
dehydration issue was caused by a digoxin overdose and alleged medical
negligence in handling that overdose, and not as an independent failure of
custodial staff.  Accordingly, the
demurrer is SUSTAINED without leave to amend.  
 
            The motion to strike relies on the
same general arguments presented in demurrer. Plaintiffs do not dispute that, without
a well-pled elder abuse/neglect claim, they may not recover attorneys’ fees
here. Likewise, without the elder neglect
claim, Code of Civil Procedure section 425.13 would prohibit the stated
claim for punitive damages against Defendants, as they are health care providers
and leave to allege punitive damages was not granted. Accordingly, the motion
to strike is GRANTED without leave.