 Case Number:  23SMCV04143    Hearing Date:   July 3, 2024    Dept:  M CASE NAME:             Khodadadi v. Ramin, et al. 
CASE NO.:                   23SMCV04143
MOTION:                     Demurrer to the
Complaint  
HEARING DATE:   7/3/2024
 
LEGAL STANDARD 
 
A demurrer for sufficiency tests whether
the complaint states a cause of action. (Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147
Cal.App.4th 740, 747.) When considering demurrers, courts read the allegations
liberally and in context. In a demurrer proceeding, the defects must be
apparent on the face of the pleading or via proper judicial notice. (Donabedian
v. Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994.) A demurrer tests the
pleadings alone and not the evidence or other extrinsic matters. Therefore, it
lies only where the defects appear on the face of the pleading or are
judicially noticed. (CCP §§ 430.30, 430.70.) At the pleading stage, a plaintiff
need only allege ultimate facts sufficient to apprise the defendant of the
factual basis for the claim against him. (Semole v. Sansoucie (1972) 28
Cal. App. 3d 714, 721.) A “demurrer does not, however, admit contentions,
deductions or conclusions of fact or law alleged in the pleading, or the
construction of instruments pleaded, or facts impossible in law.” (S. Shore
Land Co. v. Petersen (1964) 226 Cal.App.2d 725, 732, internal citations
omitted.) 
 
A special demurrer for uncertainty is
disfavored and will only be sustained where the pleading is so bad that
defendant cannot reasonably respond—i.e., cannot reasonably determine what
issues must be admitted or denied, or what counts or claims are directed
against him/her. (CCP § 430.10(f); Khoury v. Maly’s of Calif., Inc.
(1993) 14 Cal.App.4th 612, 616.) Moreover, even if the pleading is somewhat
vague, “ambiguities can be clarified under modern discovery procedures.” (Ibid.)  
  
“Liberality in permitting amendment is
the rule, if a fair opportunity to correct any defect has not been given.” (Angie
M. v. Superior Court (1995) 37 Cal.App.4th 1217, 1227.) It is an abuse of
discretion for the court to deny leave to amend where there is any reasonable
possibility that plaintiff can state a good cause of action. (Goodman v.
Kennedy (1976) 18 Cal.3d 335, 349.) The burden is on plaintiff to show¿in
what manner¿plaintiff can amend the complaint, and¿how¿that
amendment will change the legal effect of the pleading.¿(Id.) 
 
ANALYSIS 
 
Defendant
Soroush Adam Ramin demurs Plaintiff Jamshid Khodadadi’s Complaint (General
Negligence), and moves to strike the request for punitive damages.
 
The
elements of medical malpractice are: “(1) the duty of the professional to use
such skill, prudence, and diligence as other members of his profession commonly
possess and exercise; (2) a breach of that duty; (3) a proximate causal
connection between the negligent conduct and the resulting injury; and (4)
actual loss or damage resulting from the professional's negligence.” (Simmons
v. West Covina Medical Clinic (1989) 212 Cal. App. 3d 696, 701-02.) 
 
The
Complaint fails to allege that Defendant breached a professional duty to
Plaintiff.  The complaint alleges: 
 
Jamshid Khodadadi presented with the
problem of having difficulty in urination and also frequent nightly urination.
Khodadadi was treated for these symptoms by Dr. Ramin. Dr. Ramin mentioned that
cancer was a concern, and he needs to do some testing. The tests showed no
evidence of cancer. A procedure was done under local anesthesia in Dr. Ramin's
clinic, and apparently, biopsy of related tissues was performed. After the
procedure, Mr. Khodadadi developed serious infection in his urinary tract. Dr.
Ramin put the patient on twenty-seven days antibiotic regime, however, every
day his symptoms were getting worse until he could not urinate at all. Later,
without any testing, Dr. Ramin changed his antibiotic to a new one, again his
condition got worsened to the point he could not stand up. Since the prescribed
antibiotic and Dr. Ramin diagnosis did not work, Mr. Khodadadi was taken to the
hospital. Mr. Khodadadi stayed six days in the hospital, blood and urine
samples were taken and culture was performed to identify the type of infection.
In this critical time, Dr. Ramin office was unresponsive to Mr. Khodadadi’s and
his family’s requests. They were told by your office that the doctor is on
vacation. [¶] As a direct and proximate cause of professional and general
negligence of Dr. Ramin Plaintiff was seriously injured and suffered numerous
days of pain. He was also abandoned by the Defendant as he was trying to reach
the Defendant Dr.Ramin he was told by Dr.Ramin's staff that the doctor is not
available .
 
(Compl., ¶ GN-1.)
 
Simply
put, no breach of duty is alleged. To establish the existence of a duty as a
matter of fact, Plaintiff must allege that Defendant’s conduct fell below the
applicable standard of care. The complaint is silent on the standard of care.
The complaint does not state whether Defendant’s prescription of antibiotics or
failure to respond to Plaintiff’s requests at the hospital is a failure to use
the same skill, prudence, and diligence as other members of Defendant’s profession
commonly possess and exercise. Of course, there is a reasonable probability of
successful amendment addressing this issue.
 
However,
the action is time barred on its face. In an action for injury or death against
a health care provider based upon such person's alleged professional
negligence, the time for the commencement of action shall be three years after
the date of injury or one year after the plaintiff discovers, or through the
use of reasonable diligence should have discovered, the injury, whichever
occurs first. (CCP § 340.5.) Plaintiff plainly alleges that he was injured on June
5, 2022. (Compl., ¶ GN-1.) Plaintiff filed his Complaint more than a year
later, on September 5, 2023. The complaint does not allege any facts supporting
delayed discovery, or that the statute of limitations was otherwise tolled.
 
While
unalleged, Plaintiff contends that on May 15, 2023, he caused a Notice of
Intent to Sue to be served via US Mail and Certified US Mail on the Defendant’s
office. (Asadi Decl., Ex. A.) Code of Civil Procedure section 364 provides
additional time for filing actions “based upon the health care provider's
professional negligence.” No such action “may be commenced unless the defendant
has been given at least 90 days' prior notice of the intention to commence the
action.” (CCP § 364(a).) “If the notice is served within 90 days of the
expiration of the applicable statute of limitations, the time for the
commencement of the action shall be extended 90 days from the service of the
notice.” (CCP §364(d).) The May 15, 2023, service was within 90 days of the
expiration of the one-year limitations period (June 5, 2023). The operative statute
of limitations was therefore extended 90 days from the service of that notice, until
August 13, 2023. Therefore, even considering Plaintiff’s extrinsic evidence,
the suit was untimely filed on September 5, 2023. 
 
Accordingly, Defendant’s demurrer
is SUSTAINED without leave
to amend.
 
Also, the motion to strike punitive damages is GRANTED without
leave to amend. (CCP §425.13
[precluding claims of punitive damages against healthcare providers without
first seeking leave of court].)