  Case Number:  24NNCV00523    Hearing Date:   November 14, 2024    Dept:  P [TENTATIVE] ORDER SUSTAINING DEFENDANTS DEMURRER
TO PLAINTIFFS’ COMPLAINT and DENYING DEFENDANTS MOTION TO STRIKE. I.         INTRODUCTION
This action arises from an incident
in which Plaintiffs Alberto Erick Shum Cen, Yan Li, and their minor son, Anson
Cen (“Anson”) (collectively, “Plaintiffs”) allege that Anson sustained severe
injuries from an unstable lazy Susan and hot teapot at Defendants’
restaurant. 
Plaintiffs filed this action
against Defendants Boston Lobster Inc., a California corporation, and Li Shou
Ma (“Defendants”) on March 27, 2024, asserting the following causes of
actions:(1) Negligence, (2) Premises Liability, (3) Breach of Implied Warranty
of Safety, (4) Strict Product Liability, (5) Vicarious Liability, (6)
Attractive Nuisance Doctrine, (7) Negligent Infliction of Emotional Distress,
and (8) Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress.
On July 9, 2024, Defendants filed a
demurrer along with a motion to strike. Plaintiffs filed an opposition to the
demurrer on July 29, 2024, and an opposition to the motion to strike on August
14, 2024.
Moving party’s arguments
Defendants demur to the entire
complaint, arguing that Plaintiff Anson Cen, a minor born on October 18, 2018,
lacks the legal capacity to sue because no guardian ad litem has been properly
appointed. Defendants assert that although the complaint identifies Alberto
Erick Shum Cen and Yan Li as guardian’s ad litem, there is no formal petition
or court order confirming this appointment, thereby rendering the complaint
defective under Code of Civil Procedure § 430.10(b).
Additionally, Defendants demur to
the third, fourth, fifth, sixth, seventh and eighth causes of action.
Opposition arguments
Plaintiffs oppose Defendants’
demurrer, arguing that they have the capacity to sue as the Complaint
identifies Anson’s parents as his guardian’s ad litem, which they assert is
sufficient to establish this capacity. Plaintiffs further contend that they
have sufficiently alleged the third, fourth, fifth, sixth, seventh, and eighth
causes of action.
Reply arguments
Defendants reiterate the same
arguments in reply.
Meet and confer
Pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure
section 430.41, subdivision (a), the demurring party is required to meet and
confer with the party who filed the pleading at least five days before the
responsive pleading is due. This must occur in person, telephone or by video
conference with the aim of resolving any objections raised in the demurrer.
Additionally, the demurring party must file and serve a declaration detailing
the meet and confer efforts. It should be noted, however, that the failure to
meet and confer is not itself grounds for sustaining or overruling a demurrer
or granting or denying a motion to strike. (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 430.41, subd.
(a)(4), 435.5, subd. (a)(4).)
Here, on June 5, 2024, Defendants'
counsel, Alvin Andrade, contacted Plaintiffs' counsel, Peter S. Deng, by
telephone to discuss the possible demurrer and motion to strike portions of
Plaintiffs complaint. Defendants' counsel inquired whether Plaintiffs would
consider withdrawing the challenged causes of action and the punitive damages
allegations to avoid filing the demurrer and motion to strike. Plaintiffs'
counsel indicated he would need to consult with colleagues and would respond
regarding possible withdrawal (Andrade Decl., ¶¶ 4-5). Following this
discussion, Plaintiffs’ counsel agreed to an automatic 30-day extension for
Defendants to file their responsive pleadings. Defendants' counsel filed the
declaration for extension on June 6, 2024, thereby extending the due date for
the demurrer and motion to strike to July 10, 2024 (Andrade Decl., ¶¶ 5-6).
Based on the foregoing, the Court
finds that the meet and confer requirement has been satisfied.
II.        LEGAL STANDARD
A demurrer tests the legal
sufficiency of a complaint. Donabedian v.
Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994. A plaintiff’s allegations
must be accepted as true for purposes of demurrer, no matter how “improbable”
they are. (Del E. Webb Corp. v.
Structural Materials Co. (1981) 123 Cal.App.3d 593, 604 (Del E. Webb).) Allegations need not be
accepted as true if they are contradicted by judicially noticeable facts. (Cansino v. Bank of America (2014) 224
Cal.App.4th 1462, 1474.) 
Pleadings are to be broadly
construed (Code Civ. Proc., § 452) and demurrers are to be overruled where the
facts are sufficient to state any cause of action. (Quelimane Co. v. Stewart
Title Guaranty Co. (1998) 19 Cal.4th 26, 38.)
Code of Civil Procedure section 430.10, subdivision (f)
provides for a demurrer where a pleading is uncertain. Demurrers for
uncertainty are disfavored and are only sustained where a pleading is so incomprehensible
a defendant cannot reasonably respond. (A.J. Fistes v. GDL Best Contractors,
Inc. (2019) 38 Cal.App.5th 677, 695; Khoury v. Maly’s of California (1993) 14 Cal.App.4th 612, 616.) 
III.      ANALYSIS
A.   
General Demurrer – Failure to State Facts
Sufficient to Constitute a Cause of Action
Defendants demur to Plaintiff’s
Complaint based on (1) lack of capacity to sue as to the entire complaint and,
alternatively, (2) failure to state sufficient facts for the third, fourth,
fifth, sixth, seventh, and eighth causes of action.
Lack of capacity to sue
Defendants demur to the entire
complaint, arguing that Plaintiff Anson Cen, a minor born on October 18, 2018,
lacks the legal capacity to sue because no guardian ad litem has been properly
appointed. Defendants contend that, although the complaint identifies Alberto
Erick Shum Cen and Yan Li as guardians ad litem, there is no formal petition or
court order establishing this appointment. Thus, Defendants argue that the
complaint is defective, and the demurrer should be sustained under Code of
Civil Procedure § 430.10(b). (Demurrer pp.7-8)
In opposition, Plaintiffs asserts
that the complaint clearly designates Alberto and Yan as guardian’s ad litem,
which, Plaintiffs argues, establishes the necessary capacity to sue.
The Court finds that Defendants
argument regarding Plaintiff Anson Cen's lack of capacity to sue based on the
alleged absence of a formal appointment of guardian ad litem does not justify
sustaining a demurrer to the entire complaint. Although Defendants contend that
the complaint is defective under Code of Civil Procedure § 430.10(b) due to a
lack of formal petition or court order for guardian’s ad litem, the Court finds
that the designation of Alberto Erick Shum Cen and Yan Li as guardians ad litem
in the complaint suffices at this stage. The issue does not appear on the face
of the complaint to warrant dismissal. Therefore, the Court overrules
Defendants' demurrer on this ground.
Third cause of action: Breach of Implied Warranty of
Safety
Defendants demur to the third cause
of action for breach of implied warranty of safety, arguing that it is
duplicative of the negligence and premises liability causes of action.
Defendants assert that the allegations and relief sought in this claim are
identical to those in the negligence and premises liability claims.
Additionally, Defendants contend that breach of implied warranty of safety is a
fictitious cause of action without recognized legal elements. (Demurrer pp.9-10)
Plaintiffs argues that the
complaint sufficiently details Defendants breach of an implied warranty of
safety owed to their patrons. Plaintiffs asserts that, by operating the
restaurant, Defendants implicitly warranted that all aspects of the dining
environment would be safe for use.
The Court finds that no recognized
cause of action exists for breach of implied warranty of safety. Plaintiff’s
reliance on Soule v. General Motors Corp. (1994) 8 Cal.4th 548 is
misplaced, as this case does not establish such a cause of action. Furthermore,
a demurrer may be sustained when a cause of action is duplicative of another
cause of action and “adds nothing to the complaint by way of fact or theory of
recovery.” (Rodrigues v. Campbell Industries (1978) 87 Cal.App.3d 494,
501; see also Palm Springs Villas II Homeowners Association, Inc. v. Parth
(2016) 248 Cal.App.4th 268, 290). Here, the third cause of action repeats
substantially similar allegations as those in the negligence and premises
liability claims, specifically that “Defendant negligently provided a dangerous
and defective condition” (Complaint ¶ 50) and that the injuries resulted as a
“direct and proximate result of the breach” (Complaint ¶ 51).
Thus, the Court SUSTAINS the
Defendants demurrer as to this cause of action without leave to amend.
Fourth cause of action: Strict Product Liability
Defendants demur to the fourth
cause of action, arguing that the complaint fails to state a cause of action.
To establish strict products liability, a plaintiff must allege that the
defendant “produced, manufactured, sold, or was in some way responsible for the
product.” (Garcia v. Joseph Vince Co. (1978) 84 Cal.App.3d 868, 874.)¿¿A
defendant may be liable if the defendant “play[ed] an integral role in the
producing and marketing enterprise of [the light fixtures, lighting components,
and other lighting products and accessories] and . . . profit[ed] from placing
the products into the stream of commerce.” (Bay Summit Community Association
v. Shell Oil. Co. (1996) 51 Cal.App.4th 762, 773-74.) 
Here, the complaint fails to meet
these elements as it does not allege that Defendants produced, manufactured, or
sold the lazy Susan and metal teapot. While the complaint claims that the lazy
Susan and metal teapot were defective and posed a danger to consumers—including
Plaintiff Anson Cen—due to instability and lack of adequate safety features
(Complaint ¶ 56), it does not allege that Defendants were involved in the
production, manufacturing, or sale of these items. Consequently, the complaint
lacks the necessary allegations to support a strict products liability claim
against Defendants.
Accordingly, the Court SUSTAINS the
Defendants demurrer as to this cause of action with 20 days leave to amend.
Fifth cause of action: Vicarious Liability
Defendants demur to the fifth cause
of action, arguing that the complaint fails to state a cause of action. Under
California law, A principal may be vicariously liable for injury committed by
an act of its agent where (1) the principal directly authorizes the act to be
committed, (2) the agent commits the act in the scope of their agency and in
performing service on behalf of the principal, or (3) the principal ratifies
its agent's conduct after the fact by electing to adopt the agent's conduct. Doe
v. Roman Catholic Archbishop of Los Angeles (2016) 247 Cal.App.4th 953,
969.
Defendants argue that vicarious
liability is not a standalone cause of action but rather a theory of liability.
They contend that Plaintiffs has already alleged Defendants liability for the
actions of their employees in the negligence and premises liability causes of
action. Since the underlying allegations and relief sought in the vicarious
liability claim are identical to those in the negligence and premises liability
claims, Defendants assert that this cause of action is redundant and should be dismissed.
(Demurrer p.10)
In opposition, Plaintiffs argues
that the employees of Defendants acted negligently within the scope of their
employment, thereby establishing a basis for vicarious liability. Plaintiffs
specifically alleges that Defendants employees were acting within the scope of
their employment (Complaint ¶ 64) and that the act of placing the hot teapot on
an unstable lazy Susan was performed by an employee of Defendants (Complaint ¶
65).
The Court finds that the vicarious
liability allegations are duplicative of the claims already set forth in the
negligence and premises liability causes of action. As such, the vicarious
liability claim does not introduce distinct factual or legal elements beyond
those asserted in the negligence and premises liability causes of action. 
Accordingly, the Court SUSTAINS
Defendants demurrer to the fifth cause of action without leave to amend on the
grounds that it is duplicative.
Sixth cause of action: Attractive Nuisance Doctrine
Defendants demur to the sixth cause
of action arguing that it fails for multiple reasons: (a) the doctrine no
longer applies in California as an independent basis for liability; (b) when
applicable, it was linked to negligence theory to address the duty of care but
was never intended as a separate cause of action, making it improperly
redundant (Careau & Co. v. Security Pacific Business Credit, Inc.
(1990) 222 Cal.App.3d 1371, 1401; Palm Springs Villas II Homeowners Assn.,
Inc. v. Parth (2016) 248 Cal.App.4th 268, 290; Award Metals, Inc. v.
Sup. Ct. (1991) 228 Cal.App.3d 1128, 1135); and (c) even if the doctrine
were still viable, it would not apply here because Plaintiffs is alleged to be
an invitee/patron, not a trespasser (Complaint ¶¶ 11, 14-16, 69-74).
Plaintiffs, in opposition,
maintains that the complaint articulates a clear scenario of attractive
nuisance, asserting that the hazardous condition posed by the lazy Susan
constitutes such a claim.
The Court agrees with Defendants
and finds that attractive nuisance no longer serves a cause of action in
California. Therefore, the Court SUSTAINS Defendant’s demurrer to the sixth
cause of action without leave to amend.
 Seventh cause of action: Negligent Infliction of
Emotional Distress (NIED)
“The law of negligent infliction of
emotional distress in California is typically analyzed by reference to two
theories of recovery: the ‘bystander’ theory and the ‘direct victim’ theory.
The negligent causing of emotional distress is not an independent tort, but the
tort of negligence. The traditional elements of duty, breach of duty,
causation, and damages apply. Whether a defendant owes a duty of care is a
question of law.” (Spates v. Dameron Hosp. Ass’n (2003) 114 Cal.App.4th
208, 213, ellipses, quotation marks, brackets, and paragraph breaks
omitted.) 
Defendants argue that Plaintiffs
NIED claim does not meet the limited circumstances in which direct victim
claims for NIED have been upheld. The California Supreme Court has recognized
three specific scenarios for direct victim NIED claims: (1) negligent
mishandling of corpses (Christensen v. Sup. Ct. (1991) 54 Cal.3d 868);
(2) misdiagnosis of a disease that could potentially harm another (Molien v.
Kaiser Foundation Hospitals (1980) 27 Cal.3d 916); and (3) negligent breach
of a duty arising from a preexisting relationship (Burgess v. Sup. Ct.
(1992) 2 Cal.4th 1064). Defendants argue that none of these circumstances are
present in this case.
Plaintiffs maintain that the
complaint clearly supports NIED. Plaintiffs argue that this foreseeability of
emotional distress resulting from the incident substantiates their NIED claim,
and they allege that witnessing the scalding of their minor child and handling
the immediate aftermath caused them serious emotional distress (Complaint ¶
78). Plaintiffs also allege Defendants owed a duty of care to them and their
minor child to act in a way that would not foreseeably cause emotional distress
(Complaint ¶ 76). They further claim that their distress was severe,
manifesting in physical symptoms and disruptions in daily life, necessitating
medical attention and ongoing psychological care (Complaint ¶ 79).
The Court finds that Plaintiffs
have conflated the bystander and direct victim theories of NIED by grouping all
Plaintiffs together under a single cause of action. Each theory applies to
different Plaintiffs—the parents may proceed under the bystander theory, while
the minor could proceed under a direct victim theory. However, the complaint
fails to distinctly allege each theory for the respective Plaintiffs, resulting
in a lack of clarity as to which theory applies to each party.  Therefore,
the Court SUSTAINS Defendant’s demurrer to this cause of action with 20 days
leave to amend.
Eighth cause of action: Intentional Infliction of
Emotional Distress (IIED)
“The elements of a prima facie case
for the tort of intentional infliction of emotional distress are: (1) extreme
and outrageous conduct by the defendant with the intention of causing, or
reckless disregard of the probability of causing, emotional distress; (2) the
plaintiff’s suffering severe or extreme emotional distress; and (3) actual and
proximate causation of the emotional distress by the defendant’s outrageous
conduct. Conduct to be outrageous must be so extreme as to exceed all bounds of
that usually tolerated in a civilized community.” (Wilson v. Hynek
(2012) 207 Cal.App.4th 999, 1009, citation and ellipses omitted.) 
Defendants demur to this cause of
action, arguing that Plaintiffs have failed to allege conduct rising to the
level of “outrageousness” required for an IIED claim. Defendants contend that
there are no factual allegations showing conduct so extreme that it exceeds all
bounds of decency.
Plaintiffs argue in opposition that
Defendants’ failure to remedy known hazards or adequately warn patrons of
potential dangers, particularly given the vulnerability of the patrons
involved, constitutes extreme and outrageous conduct. Plaintiffs cite their
allegations that “Defendants’ acts and omissions amount to extreme and
outrageous conduct,” causing them mental anguish and severe emotional distress
(Complaint ¶¶ 84, 87).
The Court finds that Plaintiffs
have not provided sufficient factual allegations to support a claim of extreme
and outrageous conduct that exceeds the bounds of what is typically tolerated
in a civilized community. The Complaint lacks specific facts to establish
“extreme and outrageous” conduct or to demonstrate that Defendants acted with
intent to cause Plaintiffs emotional distress.
The Court SUSTAINS Defendants' demurrer as to this cause of
action with 20 days leave to amend.
 
Motion to strike
The court may, upon a motion, or at
any time in its discretion, and upon terms it deems proper, strike any
irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted in any pleading. (Code Civ.
Proc., § 436(a).) The court may also strike all or any part of any pleading not
drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of this state, a court rule, or an
order of the court. (Id,, § 436(b).) The grounds for a motion to
strike are that the pleading has irrelevant, false, or improper matter, or has
not been drawn or filed in conformity with laws. (Id. § 436.) The
grounds for moving to strike must appear on the face of the pleading or by way
of judicial notice. (Id. § 437.)
Given that the Court sustained the
demurrer to the Complaint with leave to amend, the Court DENIES the motion to
strike as MOOT.
       IV.       ORDER
            The Court
SUSTAINS the demurrer as to the third, fourth, fifth, sixth seventh and eighth
cause of action with 20 days leave to amend as to causes of action 4, 7 and 8.
Defendants' motion to strike is DENIED
as moot.
            Defendants
are to give notice.
            
Dated: 11/14/24                                                                      
 
 
 
             
JARED D. MOSES  
           JUDGE OF THE SUPERIOR COURT 