 Case Number:  24STCV19058    Hearing Date:   November 12, 2024    Dept:  72  
SUPERIOR COURT OF CALIFORNIA
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES
 
DEPARTMENT 72
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



BENJAMIN GUTSHALL, 
 
                                  Plaintiff,
  
         v.
 
 
GENERAL MOTORS, LLC, et al.,
 
                                  Defendants.
 


 Case No: 
  24STCV19058
 
 
 
 
 
 Hearing Date:  November 12, 2024
 Calendar Number:  8



 
 
 
Defendant Promenade Imports, LLC dba Infiniti of Valencia
(“Infiniti of Valencia”) demurs to the second cause of action in the Complaint
filed by Plaintiff Benjamin Gutshall (“Plaintiff”).
 
The Court SUSTAINS the demurrer.
 
In order to determine whether amendment is futile, the Court
requests argument from Plaintiff explaining (1) what facts Plaintiff can allege
that would cure the failure to allege an implied warranty by Infiniti of
Valencia, which appears to also require the existence of an express warranty by
Infiniti of Valencia; and (2) whether allegations of latency at the time of
sale would be inconsistent with Plaintiff’s allegations about the nature of the
defect. 
 
Background
 
This is a Song-Beverly action. The following facts are taken
from the allegations of the Complaint, which the Court accepts as true for the
purposes of the demurrer.
 
On June 27, 2022, Plaintiff purchased a used 2022 GMC Yukon
(the “Vehicle”) from Infiniti of Valencia. 
 
Plaintiff alleges that the Vehicle came with the original
manufacturer’s warranty, wherein Defendant General Motors, LLC (“GM”) is
alleged to have promise to undertake to preserve or maintain the utility or
performance of the Vehicle. Plaintiff does not allege that Infiniti of Valencia
ever provided an express warranty for the Vehicle.
 
On December 27, 2022, the Vehicle was taken to the dealer for
regular maintenance and to address two manufacturer recalls.
 
On May 9, 2023, the Vehicle was taken to the dealer because
it failed to start following an over-the-air program event (apparently, a
remote update to software). Roadside assistance was required to jump-start the
Vehicle because the battery would not hold a charge.
 
Plaintiff alleges that the Vehicle was taken to the dealer a
total of five times in 2023 and 2024 to address a no-start/battery issue. The
battery was replaced three times in connection with this issue.
 
Plaintiff filed this action on July 31, 2024. The Complaint
raises claims for (1) violation of Song-Beverly Consumer Warranty Act; and (2)
breach of implied warranties pursuant to Song-Beverly Act.
 
On August 12, 2024, Plaintiff added Infinity of Valencia as
a Defendant by Doe amendment.
 
On September 18, 2024, Plaintiff’s counsel agreed to dismiss
the first claim against Infiniti of Valencia following meet-and-confer efforts.
 
On September 23, 2024, Infinity of Valencia demurred to the
second claim. Plaintiff filed an opposition and Infinity of Valencia filed a
reply.
 
Legal Standard
 
“The party against whom a complaint or cross-complaint has
been filed may object, by demurrer or answer as provided in Section 430.30, to
the pleading on any one or more of the following grounds:
 
(a) The court has
no jurisdiction of the subject of the cause of action alleged in the pleading.
(b) The person who filed the pleading does not have the
legal capacity to sue.
(c) There is
another action pending between the same parties on the same cause of action.
(d) There is a defect or misjoinder of parties.
(e) The pleading does not state facts sufficient to
constitute a cause of action.
(f) The pleading is
uncertain. As used in this subdivision, “uncertain” includes ambiguous and
unintelligible.
(g) In an action
founded upon a contract, it cannot be ascertained from the pleading whether the
contract is written, is oral, or is implied by conduct.
(h) No certificate was filed as required by Section 411.35.”
 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10.)
 
As a general matter, in a demurrer proceeding, the defects
must be apparent on the face of the pleading or via proper judicial
notice. (Donabedian v. Mercury Ins.
Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994.) “A demurrer tests the pleading
alone, and not the evidence or facts alleged.” (E-Fab, Inc. v. Accountants,
Inc. Servs. (2007) 153 Cal.App.4th 1308, 1315.) The court assumes the truth
of the complaint’s properly pleaded or implied factual allegations. (Ibid.) The only issue a demurrer is
concerned with is whether the complaint, as it stands, states a cause of
action. (Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747.)
 
Where a demurrer is sustained, leave to amend must be
allowed where there is a reasonable possibility of successful amendment. (Goodman v. Kennedy (1976) 18 Cal.3d 335,
348.) The burden is on the plaintiff to show the court that a pleading can be
amended successfully. (Ibid.;
Lewis v. YouTube, LLC (2015) 244 Cal.App.4th 118, 226.) However, “[i]f
there is any reasonable possibility that the plaintiff can state a good cause
of action, it is error to sustain a demurrer without leave to amend.” (Youngman v. Nevada Irrigation Dist.
(1969) 70 Cal.2d 240, 245).
 
Discussion
 
“Unless disclaimed in the manner prescribed by this chapter,
every sale of consumer goods that are sold at retail in this state shall be
accompanied by the manufacturer’s and the retail seller’s implied warranty that
the goods are merchantable. The retail seller shall have a right of indemnity
against the manufacturer in the amount of any liability under this section.”
(Civ. Code, § 1792.)
 
“ ‘Implied warranty of merchantability’ or ‘implied warranty
that goods are merchantable’ means that the consumer goods meet each of the
following: [¶] (1) Pass without objection in the trade under the contract
description. [¶] (2) Are fit for the ordinary purposes for which such goods are
used. [¶] (3) Are adequately contained, packaged, and labeled. [¶] (4) Conform
to the promises or affirmations of fact made on the container or label.” (Civ.
Code, § 1791.1, subd. (a).)
 
“ ‘Consumer goods’ means any new product or part
thereof that is used, bought, or leased for use primarily for personal, family,
or household purposes, except for clothing and consumables.” (Civ. Code, § 1791,
subd. (a) [emphasis added].) 
 
“Notwithstanding the provisions of subdivision (a) of
Section 1791 defining consumer goods to mean ‘new’ goods, the obligation of a
distributor or retail seller of used consumer goods in a sale in which an
express warranty is given shall be the same as that imposed on
manufacturers under this chapter except:
 
(a) It shall be the
obligation of the distributor or retail seller making express warranties with
respect to used consumer goods (and not the original manufacturer, distributor,
or retail seller making express warranties with respect to such goods when new)
to maintain sufficient service and repair facilities within this state to carry
out the terms of such express warranties. ….
 
(c) The duration of
the implied warranty of merchantability and where present the implied warranty
of fitness with respect to used consumer goods sold in this state, where the
sale is accompanied by an express warranty, shall be coextensive in duration
with an express warranty which accompanies the consumer goods, provided the
duration of the express warranty is reasonable, but in no event shall such
implied warranties have a duration of less than 30 days nor more than three
months following the sale of used consumer goods to a retail buyer. Where
no duration for an express warranty is stated with respect to such goods, or
parts thereof, the duration of the implied warranties shall be the maximum
period prescribed above.”
 
(Civ. Code, § 1795.5.)
 
            Here,
Plaintiff alleges that the Vehicle was purchased in used condition. Because the
Vehicle was not new, it does not qualify as consumer goods and cannot generally
be the subject of an implied warranty of merchantability.
 
Plaintiff does not allege that Infiniti of Valencia issued
an express warranty with the Vehicle. Thus, section 1795.5 does not imply a
warranty of merchantability either.
 
Plaintiff argues that Civil Code, section 1792.3, subd. (a)
prevents waiver of an implied warranty of merchantability unless the goods are
sold ‘as is’ or ‘with all faults.’ However, this case does not involve a waiver
issue, because Plaintiff has not alleged that there was an implied warranty in
place to be waived.
 
Further, even if a warranty of merchantability were implied,
it would have a maximum duration of three months. Plaintiff first took the
Vehicle in for maintenance on December 27, 2022 – more than three months after
the June 27, 2022 purchase of the Vehicle. Further, the maintenance issues
raised on December 27, 2022 did not include the no-start/battery problem.
Plaintiff first took the Vehicle in to address the no-start/battery problem on
May 9, 2023. Thus, even assuming for the sake of argument that there was an
implied warranty of merchantability, Plaintiff has not alleged that the issues
arose within the warranty period.
 
The Court therefore sustains the demurrer to this claim. 
 
Plaintiff contends that he can amend the Complaint to cure
the defects by alleging that the defects were latent. Plaintiff contends that
if the defects were latent, the fact that Plaintiff first notified the dealer
outside of three-month period for implied warranties would not defeat his
claim. (Mexia v. Rinker Boat Co., Inc. (2009) 174 Cal.App.4th 1297, 1304,
1310 [“The implied warranty of merchantability may be breached by a latent
defect undiscoverable at the time of sale” and the argument “that latent defects
must be discovered and reported to the seller within the specified time—has no
support in the text of the statute.”]; 
 
The Court is concerned that this
amendment would be futile for two reasons. First, Plaintiff says nothing about
his ability to assert that there was an implied warranty in this case that
applies to Infiniti of Valencia’s sale of a used car.  As noted above, an implied warranty for a
retailer’s sale of such a car requires the existence of an express warranty
also.  It is not clear to the Court
whether Plaintiff can allege in good faith that there was an express warranty
by Infiniti of Valencia that would carry with it an implied warranty.  

 
Second, Plaintiff has alleged that no-start/battery defect
began after a wireless software update to the car. The defect would thus not be
latent at the time of sale. When “a party files an amended complaint and seeks
to avoid the defects of a prior complaint either by omitting the facts that
rendered the complaint defective or by pleading facts inconsistent with the
allegations of prior pleadings”, “the policy against sham pleading permits the
court to take judicial notice of the prior pleadings and requires that the
pleader explain the inconsistency. If he fails to do so the court may disregard
the inconsistent allegations and read into the amended complaint the
allegations of the superseded complaint.” (Owens v. Kings Supermarket
(1988) 198 Cal.App.3d 379, 384.)
 
The Court requests argument from Plaintiff explaining (1)
what facts Plaintiff can allege that would cure the failure to allege an
implied warranty; and (2) whether allegations of latency at the time of sale
would violate the sham pleading doctrine.