  Case Number:  22PSCV01739    Hearing Date:   December 7, 2023    Dept:  G Defendant Ford Motor Company’s Motion for Entry of Protective
Order to Govern Production of Confidential Materials
Respondent: Plaintiffs Quanyi
Wang and Ruoxuan Li
TENTATIVE RULING
Defendant Ford Motor Company’s Motion for Entry of a Protective
Order to Govern Production of Confidential Materials is GRANTED with modifications
as delineated below.
BACKGROUND
This
is a lemon law action. In November 2021, Plaintiffs Quanyi Wang and Ruoxuan Li entered into a warranty
contract with Defendant Ford Motor Company (Ford) by purchasing a 2021 Ford
Explorer from Defendant Hemborg Ford. Subsequently, Wang and Li’s vehicle manifested
engine defects.
On
November 8, 2022, Wang and Li filed a complaint against Ford, Hemborg Ford, and
Does 1-10, alleging the following causes of action: (1) breach of express
warranty, (2) breach of implied warranty, and (3) negligent repair. On April 6,
2023, the court sustained a demurrer to the Complaint by Hemborg Ford with
leave to amend.
On
April 26, 2023, Wang and Li filed a First Amended Complaint (FAC) against the
same defendants alleging the same causes of
action. On June 29, the court sustained Hemborg Ford’s demurrer to the FAC
without leave to amend.
On
August 28, 2023, Ford filed the present motion. A hearing on Ford’s motion is
set for December 7 and a post-mediation status conference/trial setting
conference is also set for May 15, 2024.
ANALYSIS
Ford
moves for a protective order to protect the confidentiality of discovery
responses. For the following reasons, the court GRANTS Ford’s motion with
modifications.
Legal Standard
“The
court, for good cause shown, may make any order that justice requires to
protect any party or other natural person or organization from unwarranted
annoyance, embarrassment, or oppression, or undue burden and expense.” (Code
Civ. Proc., §§ 2030.090, subd. (b) [interrogatories], 2031.060, subd. (b)
[production of documents], 2033.080, subd. (b) [requests for admission].) Such
orders may include excusing the party from answering the discovery requests at
issue, limiting the number of discovery requests, or extending the time to
respond to discovery requests. (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 2030.090, subd. (b),
2031.060, subd. (b), 2033.080, subd. (b).) The court has considerable
discretion in granting and crafting protective orders. (Raymond Handling
Concepts Corp. v. Superior Court (1995) 39 Cal.App.4th 584, 588.)
Discussion
As
an initial matter, Wang and Li argue Ford’s motion must be denied on the
grounds that it is untimely. In response to a discovery demand, “the party to
whom the demand has been directed, and any other party or affected person, may
promptly move for a protective order.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.060, subd.
(a).) The timeliness and promptness of a protective order request “turns on the
facts.” (Nativi v. Deutsche Bank National Trust Co. (2014) 223
Cal.App.4th 261, 317.) Wang and Li argue they served discovery on Ford in March
2023 and that Ford failed to file the present motion until August 2023. But the
supporting declaration of Wang and Li’s counsel fails to provide any support
for this claim. Instead, Wang and Li’s counsel provides a vague and cursory
description of meet-and-confer efforts. (Powell Decl., ¶ 2.) In contrast, the
declaration of Ford’s counsel details meet-and-confer efforts that began in
January 2022 and continued up until August 2023. (Biemann Decl., ¶ 3-6.) Thus,
the court finds Ford’s motion is timely, and now considers the motion on the
merits.
In
this case, the parties do not dispute that Ford’s discovery responses include
confidential information that should be protected from disclosure pursuant to a
protective order. (Motion, p. 1:3-6; Opp., 1:3-9.) Instead, while Wang and Li
have agreed to the use of a LASC model protective order, they do not agree with
Ford’s proposed modifications to the model protective order, including (1)
Ford’s definition of “affiliated attorneys,” (2) Ford’s document access
requirements, (3) Ford’s prohibition on sharing documents with mock jurors, (4)
Ford’s prohibition on the posting or sale of discovery documents, and (5)
Ford’s requirements for the return or destruction of documents at the
conclusion of the case.
The
court addresses each proposed modification below:
Definition of “Affiliated Attorneys”
First,
Ford proposes changes to the definition of “affiliated attorneys” in paragraph
7(b) of the model protective order. In the model protective order, access to
confidential records is limited to “Attorneys of record in the Proceedings and
their affiliated attorneys, paralegals, clerical and secretarial staff employed
by such attorneys who are actively involved in the Proceedings and are not
employees of any Party.” Ford proposes qualifying “affiliated attorneys” as
“affiliated attorneys in the same firm.” (Biemann Decl., Ex. I, ¶ 7(b).)
Ford
argues this modification is necessary to prevent Ford’s documents from being
shared with multiple attorneys who have no responsibility to protect Ford’s
documents. But such an argument ignores the actual wording of the model
protective order. The model protective order does not allow Ford’s documents to
be shared with any broadly affiliated attorney. Rather, as quoted above, it
limits disclosure to “affiliated attorneys . . . employed by such attorneys who
are actively involved in the Proceedings.”
The
court finds there is no good cause set forth for preventing the disclosure of
documents to attorneys who Wang and Li’s counsel employ outside of their firm. Accordingly,
the court declines to issue a protective order with this modification.
Document Access Requirements
Second,
Ford proposes an additional requirement in paragraph 7(b) that covers
non-lawyer access to Ford’s documents by including language stating, “each
non-lawyer given access to Confidential Materials shall be . . . required to
execute Exhibit A agreeing to be bound by the terms of this protective order
prior to disclosure.” (Biemann Decl., Ex. I, ¶ 7(b).) Ford contends this
modification is required because each non-lawyer must acknowledge and agree to
be bound by the protective order. Here, Ford fails to provide any legal
authority for this position and the non-lawyers’ consent is not required for
the court’s order to have legal effect and to bind them. Accordingly, the court
declines to issue a protective order with this modification.
Ford
also proposes (1) allowing access to videographers and providers of litigation
support services, (2) allowing access to outside experts or non-attorney
consultants who sign Exhibit A, and (3) prohibiting access to experts or
consultants who are currently employed by a competitor of Ford. Because Wang
and Li do not address these proposed changes in their opposition, the court
finds they have waived any challenge to them and GRANTS Ford’s request to issue a protective
order with these modifications.
Prohibition on Sharing Documents with Mock Jurors
Third,
Ford proposes deleting paragraph 7(g) from the model protective order which
allows mock jury participants to access Ford’s documents provided they sign
Exhibit A. Ford maintains this modification is required because mock jurors are
virtual strangers and Ford will have no way to confirm the accuracy of their
contact information if an issue arises.
The
court finds this argument is without merit since it could easily apply to any
of the other parties with access to Ford’s documents. Accordingly, the court
declines to issue a protective order with this modification.
Prohibition on Posting or Sale of Documents
Fourth,
Ford proposes modifying paragraph 8 of the model protective order to prevent the
posting of the documents “on any website or internet accessible document
repository that is accessible to anyone other than the persons noted in
paragraph 7 above.” (Biemann Decl., Ex. I, ¶ 8(a).) Ford also proposes language
that prohibits persons in paragraph 7 from selling, advertising, or publicizing
Ford’s confidential documents. (Biemann Decl., Ex. I, ¶ 8(a).)
Here,
Ford fails to demonstrate why this additional language is necessary. The proposed
model order already states that Wang and Li shall only permit access to the
persons designated in paragraph 7. (Biemann Decl., Ex. I, ¶ 7.) And it states
Ford’s documents shall only be used “for the
purposes of preparing for, conducting, participating in the conduct of, and/or prosecuting
and/or defending the Proceeding, and not for any business or other purpose whatsoever.”
(Biemann Decl., Ex. I, ¶ 8.)
The
court finds there is no good cause for the additional language which simply
restates the protective order’s requirements and, therefore, the court declines
to issue a protective order with this modification.
Document Disposal Requirements
Fifth
and last, Ford proposes modifying paragraph 21 of the model protective order to
require the return or destruction of all confidential materials and documents
within thirty (30) days after settlement or termination of the proceeding.
(Biemann Decl., Ex. I, ¶ 21.) Ford’s proposed modification also removes
language from the model protective order which allows Wang and Li to retain
their work product. (Biemann Decl., Ex. I, ¶ 21.) While Wang and Li do not
appear to challenge the requirements to return or destroy confidential documents,
they do oppose the removal of language involving work product. While Ford
argues allowing Wang and Li to keep work product with confidential information
would afford Ford with no ability to track their location and use over time, the
court finds this argument is unavailing as Wang and Li still will be under the
continuing obligation to protect the confidentiality of such information
pursuant to the stipulation.
Accordingly,
the court GRANTS Ford’s request to issue a protective order these modifications with the
exception of its omission of language allowing Wang and Li to keep their work
product.
CONCLUSION
Based on the foregoing,
Ford’s motion for a protective order is GRANTED with the following
modifications.
In paragraph 7(b) of the
proposed protective order, Ford’s inclusion of “in the same firm” and “required
to execute Exhibit A agreeing to be found by the terms of this protective order
prior to disclosure” shall be stricken.
In paragraph 7(g) of the
proposed protective order, the following language from the model protective
order shall be included:
“mock
jury participants, provided, however, that prior to the Disclosure of
Confidential Materials to any such mock jury participant, counsel for the Party
making the Disclosure shall deliver a copy of this Stipulation and Protective
Order to such person, shall explain that such person is bound to follow the
terms of such Order, and shall secure the signature of such person on a
statement in the form attached hereto as Exhibit A.”
In paragraph 8 of the
proposed protective order, Ford’s inclusion of subdivision (a) and subdivision
(b) shall be stricken.
In paragraph 21 of the
proposed protective order, the following language from the model protective
order shall be included where indicated in italics:
“Within
thirty (30) days after the settlement or other termination of the Proceeding,
the undersigned Parties shall have thirty (30) days to either (a) promptly
return to counsel for each Designating Party all Confidential Materials and all
copies thereof, including any documents which any such Party disclosed to any
Qualified Person, or (b) securely destroy the Protected Documents,
including any documents which any such Party disclosed to any Qualified Person
and certify in writing such destruction to the Designating Party, except
that counsel for each Party may maintain in its files, in continuing compliance
with the terms of this Stipulation and Protective Order, all work product, and
one copy of each pleading filed with the Court.”