 Case Number:  23PSCV00975    Hearing Date:   December 7, 2023    Dept:  G Defendant State of California’s Demurrer to Plaintiff’s
Complaint
 
Respondent: Plaintiff Sonia Moreno
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 
Defendant State of California’s Demurrer to Plaintiff’s
Complaint is CONTINUED to a date to be determined at the hearing in Department
G (Pomona).
 
Defendant State of California’s counsel is also ordered
to meet and confer with Plaintiff Sonia Moreno’s counsel regarding the present
demurrer and to file a supplemental declaration describing such meet and confer
efforts at least nine (9) court days before the next scheduled hearing.
 
BACKGROUND
 
This is a premises liability action. In October 2022,
Plaintiff Sonia Moreno was walking down a sidewalk along West San Bernardino
Road in West Covina when Moreno allegedly tripped and fell because of an
uncovered pipe. Moreno’s fall allegedly resulted in physical injuries that
required medical treatment.
 
On April 4, 2023,
Moreno filed a complaint against the City of West Covina (West Covina), the
City of Azusa (Azusa), the State of California (the State), and Does 1-30,
alleging the following causes of action: (1) premises liability and (2)
personal injury against a public entity or its employee.
 
On September 29,
2023, Moreno and West Covina stipulated to the dismissal of the second cause of
action against West Covina.
 
On October 30, 2023, the State filed the present demurrer. At
least five days prior to filing the demurrer, the State’s counsel allegedly met
and conferred with Moreno’s counsel. (Thomas Decl., ¶ 2.)
 
A hearing on the demurrer and a case management conference are
set for December 7, 2023.
 
ANALYSIS
 
The State demurs to Moreno’s entire Complaint.
For the following reasons, the court finds the
parties did not adequately meet and confer.
 
Legal Standard
 
Pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 430.41,
subdivision (a), prior to filing a demurrer, “the demurring party shall meet
and confer in person or by telephone with the party who filed the pleading that
is subject to demurrer for the purpose of determining whether an agreement can
be reached that would resolve the objections to be raised in the demurrer.”
This section further provides that “the demurring party shall identify all of
the specific causes of action that it believes are subject to demurrer and
identify with legal support the basis of the deficiencies.” (Code Civ. Proc., §
430.41, subd. (a)(1).)
 
While Code of Civil Procedure section 430.41, subdivision
(a)(4) makes clear failing to meet and confer is not grounds to overrule a
demurrer, courts “are not required to ignore defects in the meet and confer
process” and if the court determines “no meet and confer has taken place, or
concludes further conferences between counsel would likely be productive, it
retains discretion to order counsel to meaningfully discuss the pleadings with
an eye toward reducing the number of issues or eliminating the need for a
demurrer, and to continue the hearing date to facilitate that effort.” (Dumas
v. Los Angeles County Bd. of Supervisors (2020) 45 Cal.App.5th 348, 355
& fn. 3.)
 
Discussion
 
In this case, the
State’s counsel filed a declaration stating the parties met and conferred.
But a
meet-and-confer declaration must state “[t]he means by which the demurring
party met and conferred with the party who filed the pleading subject to
demurrer, and that the parties did not reach an agreement resolving the
objections raised in the demurrer.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.41, subd.
(a)(3)(A).) Here, while the form declaration allowed for the declarant to
choose their form of meeting and conferring, counsel failed to check either the
in-person option or telephonic option. Thus, the court finds a continuance to
further meet and confer is appropriate.
 
CONCLUSION
Based on the foregoing, the State’s demurrer is CONTINUED
to a date to be determined at the hearing in Department G (Pomona).
 

The State’s counsel is also ordered to meet and confer with Moreno’s counsel regarding the present demurrer and to file a supplemental declaration describing such meet and confer efforts at least nine (9) court days before the next scheduled hearing. 