 Case Number:  23PSCV02124    Hearing Date:   December 7, 2023    Dept:  G Plaintiff City of Diamond Bar’s Motion for Preliminary
Injunction
Respondent: NO OPPOSITION
TENTATIVE RULING
Plaintiff City of Diamond Bar’s Motion for Preliminary
Injunction is GRANTED.
BACKGROUND
This
is a nuisance abatement action. Defendants John Zhong and Catherine Li are the alleged
owners of real property on Knoll Court in Diamond Bar. From March 2022 to
present, the City of Diamond Bar (the City) alleges Zhong and Li have been
utilizing the Diamond Bar property for short-term rentals in violation of
Diamond Bar Municipal Code section 22.08.030. The City alleges that despite
multiple notices of violation, Zhong and Li have failed to comply.
On
July 14, 2023, the City filed a complaint against Zhong, Li, and Does 1-50,
alleging (1) public nuisance and (2) public nuisance per se.
On October
27, 2023, the City filed the present motion. A hearing on the City’s motion is
set for December 7 along with a case management conference.
REQUESTS FOR JUDICIAL
NOTICE
The City’s requests for
judicial notice of the Knoll Court property’s grant deed, Diamond Bar Municipal
Code provisions, and prior filings in the present action are GRANTED.
ANALYSIS
The
City seeks a preliminary injunction to enjoin Zhong and Li from continuing to
operate a short-term rental at the Knoll Court property in violation of Diamond
Bar Municipal Code. For the following reasons, the court GRANTS the
City’s motion.
Legal
Standard
“[A]
court will deny a preliminary injunction unless there is a reasonable
probability that the plaintiff will be successful on the merits, but the
granting of a preliminary injunction does not amount to an adjudication of the
merits.” (Beehan v. Lido Isle Community Assn. (1977) 70 Cal.App.3d 858,
866.) “The function of a preliminary injunction is the preservation of the
status quo until a final determination of the merits.” (Ibid.)
In
evaluating a party’s request for a preliminary injunction, courts consider “(1)
how likely it is that the moving party will prevail on the merits, and (2) the
relative harm the parties will suffer in the interim due to the issuance or nonissuance of the injunction.” (Dodge,
Warren & Peters Ins. Services, Inc. v. Riley (2003) 105 Cal.App.4th
1414, 1420.) “[T]he greater the . . . showing on one, the less must be shown on
the other to support an injunction.” (Ibid, quoting Butt v. State of
California (1992) 4 Cal.4th 668, 678.) The balancing of harm between the
parties also “involves consideration of such things as the inadequacy of other
remedies, the degree of irreparable harm, and the necessity of preserving the
status quo.” (Husain v. McDonald’s Corp. (2012) 205 Cal.App.4th 860,
867, quoting Abrams v. St. John’s Hospital & health Center (1994) 25
Cal.App.4th 628, 636.)¿The burden of proof is on the plaintiff as the moving
party “to show all elements necessary to support issuance of a preliminary
injunction.” (O’Connell v. Superior Court (2006) 141 Cal.App.4th 1452,
1481.)
But
“[w]here a governmental entity seeking to enjoin the alleged violation of an
ordinance which specifically provides for injunctive relief establishes that it
is reasonably probable it will prevail on the merits, a rebuttable presumption
arises that the potential harm to the public outweighs the potential harm to
the defendant. If the defendant shows that it would suffer grave or irreparable
harm from the issuance of the preliminary injunction, the court must then
examine the relative actual harms to the parties.” (IT Corp. v. County of
Imperial (1983) 35 Cal.3d 63, 72 (internal footnote omitted).)
Discussion
In this case, the City argues
Zhong and Li are operating a short-term rental in violation of Diamond Bar
Municipal Code (DBMC). Pursuant to DBMC section 22.04.020, subdivision (h), “[i]f
a proposed use of land is not specifically listed in article II (Zoning
Districts and Allowable Land Uses), the use shall not be allowed” unless it
involves similar or equivalent use. Any violation of the DBMC is “deemed a
public nuisance and may be abated by the city by any lawful means, including
but not limited to administrative abatement proceedings, cost recovery
proceedings pursuant to section 22.78.070, restraining order or injunction.”
(DBMC, § 1.04.010, subd. (e).)
According to Greg Gubman, the
director of the City’s Community Development Department, the Knoll Court
property is zoned as “Low Density Residential.” (Gubman Decl., ¶ 4.) Pursuant
to DBMC section 22.08.030, operation of a short-term rental is not one of the
approved uses for this type of zoning district. Furthermore, DBMC section
5.08.050 specifically prohibits the operation of short-term rentals in Diamond
Bar. The DBMC defines a short-term rental as “[t]he use of any dwelling unit,
or any portion thereof, for short-term occupancy” which it defines as “[t]he
use or possession, or right to use or possess, of any portion of a dwelling
unit, room or rooms offered for remuneration for dwelling, lodging or sleeping
purposes for a period of less than 30 days.” (DBMC, § 22.80, subd. (s).)
Here, Ronnie Ramirez, a code
enforcement officer for the City, provided a declaration stating Ramirez first
cited Zhong and Li for operating a short-term rental at the Knoll Court
property on March 10, 2022. (Ramirez Decl., ¶ 5.) Subsequently, Ramirez states
Zhong and Li continued to operate the Knoll Court property as a short-term
rental on Airbnb and that Ramirez issued another citation for such violations
on January 12, 2023. (Ramirez Decl., ¶ 7.) On October 23, Ramirez found another
advertisement for the Knoll Court property on Airbnb and states Zhong and Li
continue to operate the Knoll Court property as a short-term rental. (Ramirez,
¶ 9-11.)
Based on the testimony of
Ramirez, the court finds it is likely the City will be able to prevail on the
merits and establish Zhong and Li have been operating a short-term rental at
the Knoll Court property in violation of the DBMC. And because the DBMC
authorizes the use of injunctive relief to enjoin violations of the DBMC as
public nuisances, the court finds the City is entitled to the presumption that
the potential harm to the City outweighs any potential harms to Zhong and Li. Accordingly,
because Zhong and Li have failed to rebut this presumption with any timely
opposition, the court finds the City is entitled to a preliminary injunction
and GRANTS the City’s motion.
CONCLUSION
Based on the foregoing, the
City’s motion for a preliminary injunction is GRANTED.  Defendants Zhong
and Li are enjoined from continuing to operate a short-term rental at the Knoll
Court property in violation of the Diamond Bar Municipal Code.
Plaintiff
to submit an order consistent with this ruling.