..................... ..................... ..................... ......
The summary displayed below was created by an LLM named 'llama3-8b-8192':
Here is the summary of the judge's tentative ruling in YAML format:

```
Case Number: 22TRCV01587
Plaintiff's Name: Shil K. Park
Defendant's Name: Centinela Medical Center of South Bay, Inc., et al.
People-Names: None
Company-Names: Centinela Medical Center of South Bay, Inc.
Places: Los Angeles, Lawndale
Dates: December 21, 2022, October 31, 2023
Events: Lease agreement, breach of contract, cross-complaint
Money: Damages, rent
Intentions: To determine the sufficiency of the cross-complaint
Facts: Breach of contract, failure to make repairs, interference with quiet enjoyment
Disputes: Breach of contract, rescission, breach of covenant of quiet enjoyment, partial eviction, violation of ordinances
Acts: Failure to make repairs, interference with quiet enjoyment
Agreements: Lease agreement, cross-complaint
Laws: Civil Code, Code of Civil Procedure, Los Angeles County Anti-Harassment and Retaliation Ordinance, Lawndale Municipal Code
Case Citations: Numerous California court cases
Statutes: Civil Code, Code of Civil Procedure, Los Angeles County Anti-Harassment and Retaliation Ordinance, Lawndale Municipal Code
Roles: Plaintiff (Shil K. Park), Defendant (Centinela Medical Center of South Bay, Inc., et al.)
Significant Statements:
* The Court finds that the cross-complaint states facts sufficient to state a cause of action for breach of contract.
* The Court sustains the demurrer to the cause of action for rescission with 20 days leave to amend.
* The Court overrules the demurrer to the cause of action for breach of the covenant of quiet enjoyment.
* The Court sustains the demurrer to the cause of action for partial eviction with 20 days leave to amend.
* The Court sustains the demurrer to the cause of action for violation of the Los Angeles County Anti-Harassment and Retaliation Ordinance with 20 days leave to amend.
* The Court sustains the demurrer to the cause of action for violation of the Lawndale Municipal Code with 20 days leave to amend.
```

Summary:

The judge has issued a tentative ruling on the demurrer to the cross-complaint filed by the defendant, Centinela Medical Center of South Bay, Inc., et al. The court finds that the cross-complaint states facts sufficient to state a cause of action for breach of contract, but sustains the demurrer to the causes of action for rescission, partial eviction, violation of the Los Angeles County Anti-Harassment and Retaliation Ordinance, and violation of the Lawndale Municipal Code with 20 days leave to amend. The court overrules the demurrer to the cause of action for breach of the covenant of quiet enjoyment. The parties are ordered to request judicial notice of any relevant ordinances and attach a full copy of any relevant ordinances to the demurrer and/or opposition.
