  Case Number:  22TRCV00719    Hearing Date:   October 31, 2023    Dept:  B 
LOS ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT – SOUTHWEST DISTRICT
 




 
Honorable Gary Y. Tanaka                                                                                      Tuesday, October 31, 2023 
Department B                                                                                                                             Calendar No. 5  



 
 
PROCEEDINGS
 
Irma
Hernandez Mata, et al. v. Win Chevrolet, Inc., et al.
22TRCV00719
1.     
Irma Hernandez
Mata, et al.’s Motion to Compel Further Responses to Request for Production of
Documents, Set One, and Request for Sanctions 
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 
Irma Hernandez Mata, et al.’s Motion to Compel Further
Responses to Request for Production of Documents, Set One, and Request for Sanctions
is moot, in part, denied, in part, and granted, in part.
 
Background
 
Plaintiffs filed their Complaint on August 19, 2022. This
is a “Lemon Law” case brought by Plaintiffs concerning a 2021 GMC Sierra. Plaintiffs
allege that the vehicle suffers from widespread defects, including transmission,
engine, electrical, and suspension defects. Defendant has been unable to repair
their vehicle within a reasonable number of attempts. Plaintiffs further allege
that Defendant knew that the vehicle suffered from the prevalent defects, but
nevertheless refused to repurchase the vehicle—a willful violation of the
Song-Beverly Consumer Warranty Act (“Song-Beverly Act”). Plaintiffs allege the
following causes of action: 1. Violation of Song-Beverly Act – Breach of
Express Warranty; 2. Violation of Song-Beverly Act – Breach of Implied
Warranty; 3. Negligent Repair. 
 
Motion to Compel Further Responses to Requests for
Production of Documents 
 
A party responding to an inspection demand shall
respond to each demand with one of the following:  a statement the party will comply with the
demand, a representation the party lacks the ability to comply with the demand,
or an objection.  (Code Civ. Proc., §
2031.210, subd. (a).)  A response to an
inspection demand may be inadequate because it is evasive or incomplete;
contains an incomplete statement of compliance; an inadequate, incomplete, or
evasive representation of inability to comply; or meritless or overly general
objections to a demand.  (Code Civ.
Proc., § 2031.310, subd. (a).) 
 
If a demanding party believes the responding party
responded inadequately, the demanding party may move for an order compelling
further response.  (Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 2031.310, subd. (a).)  “Unless
notice of this motion is given within 45 days of the service of the verified
response, or any supplemental verified response, or on or before any specific
later date to which the demanding party and the responding party have agreed in
writing, the demanding party waives any right to compel a further response to the
demand.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.310,
subd. (c).)    
 
Meet and Confer
 
            Plaintiff set forth a meet and
confer declaration in substantial compliance with CCP § 2031.310(b)(2).  (Declaration, Phil A. Thomas, dated March 28,
2023, ¶¶ 11-19.)
 
            Motion to Compel 
 
Plaintiff seeks further responses to Request for
Production of Documents Nos. 16-32, 37-41 and 45-46.
 
As to Requests 16, 19-32, and 45-46, the motion is
moot.  Defendant served further responses
on October 9, 2023.  (Decl., Arash
Yaraghchian, Ex. B.)
 
As to Requests for Production of Documents 17 and 18,
first, the Court notes that the status of the dispute with respect to the
requests is unclear because Defendant’s separate statement fails to address
these requests, at all. However, in the opposition, Defendant states that
responsive documents were produced or offered to be produced. 
 
Request 17 seeks: “YOUR workshop manual(s) for the
SUBJECT VEHICLE.” Request 18 seeks: “The operative Franchise Agreement, if any,
on the date of sale of the SUBJECT VEHICLE between YOU and the dealership that
sold the SUBJECT VEHICLE to Plaintiffs.”
 
Based on the statements set forth in the opposition,
the motion is either granted, or, is moot. If the documents have already been
produced the motion is moot. If the documents have not been produced, the
motion is granted. In the latter scenario, Defendant is ordered to serve
further responses within 10 days of this date.
 
As to Requests 37 to 41, the motion is denied. The
requests are overly broad.
 
Requests 37 to 41 state, as follows:
 
“REQUEST FOR PRODUCTION NO. 37: DOCUMENTS sufficient
to identify all of YOUR OBDII codes for the same year, make, and model as the
SUBJECT VEHICLE. REQUEST FOR PRODUCTION NO. 38: DOCUMENTS sufficient to show
all of YOUR vehicle symptom codes for the same year, make, and model as the
SUBJECT VEHICLE. REQUEST FOR PRODUCTION NO. 39: DOCUMENTS sufficient to show
all of YOUR vehicle component repair codes for the same year, make, and model
as the SUBJECT VEHICLE. REQUEST FOR PRODUCTION NO. 40: DOCUMENTS sufficient to
show all of YOUR customer complaint codes from 2021 to present. REQUEST FOR PRODUCTION NO. 41: DOCUMENTS sufficient to
show all labor operation codes provided by YOU to YOUR authorized dealerships
from 2021 to present.” (Plaintiff’s Ex. A, pages 7-8.)
 
In Donlen v.
Ford Motor Co. (2013) 217 Cal.App.4th 138, 154, the Court of
Appeal held that the trial court did not err in refusing to exclude evidence
with respect to vehicles other than Plaintiff’s vehicle because Plaintiff’s
expert testimony was properly limited to the same type of transmission involved
in Plaintiff’s vehicle as well as the other vehicles at issue.  Here, however, the requests are not limited to
pursue discovery related to similar defects that relate to the same year, make,
and model as Plaintiff’s vehicle. Instead, the information requested refers to
numerous codes and/or defects that may have no bearing or relevance to the specific
alleged defects of Plaintiff’s vehicle. 
 
Thus, as to Requests 37 to 41, the motion is denied.
 
Therefore, Defendant is ordered to serve further
responses to Requests 17 and 18, again, presuming that no further responses
have yet to be served since the filing of the motion, within 10 days of this
date. If further responses have already been served as Defendant seems to
imply, the motion is moot as to these requests.
 
As to Requests 16, 19-32, and 45-46, the motion is
moot. If Plaintiff contends that the recent further responses that were served remain
deficient, that would be the subject of a separate motion after a meet and
confer process has been completed directed to these newly served further
responses. 
 
Plaintiff’s request for monetary sanctions is denied.
 
Defendant is ordered to give notice of this ruling. 
 
 
 