  Case Number:  21CHCV00349    Hearing Date:   October 27, 2023    Dept:  F47 Dept. F47
Date: 10/27/23
Case #21CHCV00349
 
MOTION FOR NEW
TRIAL 
 
Motion filed 9/18/23.
 
MOVING PARTY: Defendant Newhere, Inc, dba CBDFX.Com
RESPONDING PARTY: Plaintiff Vaping360 GMBH
NOTICE: ok
 
RELIEF REQUESTED: An order granting a new trial.
 
RULING: The motion is denied.
 
SUMMARY OF FACTS & PROCEDURAL HISTORY
 
This action arose out of the alleged breach of a contract
between Plaintiff Vaping360 GMBH (Plaintiff) and Defendant Newhere, Inc. dba
CBDFX.Com (Defendant) for use of Plaintiff’s website hyperlinks to promote and
sell Defendant’s products.  Plaintiff
contended that the contract stipulated that Plaintiff would receive commission
based on the use of the hyperlinks from Plaintiff’s website to Defendant’s
website to purchase Defendant’s products. 
 
On 7/5/23 and 7/6/23, a court trial of the action was
held after which judgment was entered for Plaintiff against Defendant on the
complaint for the principal and total amount of $821,040.59.  (See 7/5/23 and 7/6/23 Minute
Orders).  Judgment and a Statement of
Decision were signed and filed on 8/3/23. 
On 8/14/23, Plaintiff filed and served Notice of Entry of Judgment.  On 8/29/23, Defendant filed and served
notices of intent to move for new trial and to set aside and vacate the
judgment.  On 8/30/23, the Court sent
notice that the hearing on the motions was scheduled for 9/28/23.  Thereafter, pursuant to stipulation, the
hearing on the motions was continued to 10/27/23.
 
On 9/18/23, Defendant filed and served its papers in
support of the motions.  Defendant
contends that a new trial should be granted on the following grounds: (1)
erroneous admission of evidence (CCP 657(1)); (2) erroneous exclusion of
evidence (CCP 657(1)); (3) the evidence was insufficient to justify the award
(CCP 657(6)); (4) the damages awarded are excessive (CCP 657(5)); and/or (5) it
was an error in law to deny Defendant’s motion for nonsuit.  Plaintiff has opposed the motions and Defendant
has filed replies to the oppositions.  
 
ANALYSIS
 
A new trial may only be granted based on the grounds set
forth in CCP 657.  Jackson (2021)
66 CA5th 1196, 1213.
 
As noted above, Defendant relies on subsections 1, 5 and
6 to support the request for a new trial.
 
CCP 657 provides in relevant part: 
 
“The verdict may be vacated and any
other decision may be modified or vacated, in whole or in part, and a new or
further trial granted on all or part of the issues, on the application of the
party aggrieved, for any of the following causes, materially affecting the
substantial rights of such party:
 
1. Irregularity in the proceedings
of the court, jury or adverse party, or any order of the court or abuse of
discretion by which either party was prevented from having a fair trial.
 
. .
. 
 
5. Excessive or inadequate damages.
 
6. Insufficiency of the evidence to
justify the verdict or other decision, or the verdict or other decision is
against law.
 
. .
. 
 
When a new trial is granted, on all
or part of the issues, the court shall specify the ground or grounds upon which
it is granted and the court's reason or reasons for granting the new trial upon
each ground stated.
 
A new trial shall not be granted
upon the ground of insufficiency of the evidence to justify the verdict or
other decision, nor upon the ground of excessive or inadequate damages, unless
after weighing the evidence the court is convinced from the entire record,
including reasonable inferences therefrom, that the court or jury clearly
should have reached a different verdict or decision.
 
The order passing upon and
determining the motion must be made and entered as provided in Section
660 and if the motion is granted must state the ground or grounds
relied upon by the court, and may contain the specification of reasons. If an
order granting such motion does not contain such specification of reasons, the
court must, within 10 days after filing such order, prepare, sign and file such
specification of reasons in writing with the clerk. The court shall not direct
the attorney for a party to prepare either or both said order and said
specification of reasons.
 
On appeal from an order granting a
new trial the order shall be affirmed if it should have been granted upon any
ground stated in the motion, whether or not specified in the order or
specification of reasons, except that (a) the order shall not be affirmed upon
the ground of the insufficiency of the evidence to justify the verdict or other
decision, or upon the ground of excessive or inadequate damages, unless such
ground is stated in the order granting the motion and (b) on appeal from an
order granting a new trial upon the ground of the insufficiency of the evidence
to justify the verdict or other decision, or upon the ground of excessive or
inadequate damages, it shall be conclusively presumed that said order as to
such ground was made only for the reasons specified in said order or said
specification of reasons, and such order shall be reversed as to such ground
only if there is no substantial basis in the record for any of such reasons.”
 
Relying on CCP 657(1), Defendant contends that a new
trial is warranted because the Court improperly admitted certain evidence over
its objection which was prejudicial. 
Specifically, Defendant argues that the Court erroneously admitted
Plaintiff’s Exhibit 4, Post Affiliate Documents; testimony of Plaintiff’s
witness Benjamin Biri regarding Exhibit 4; Plaintiff’s Exhibit 1; and testimony
of Plaintiff’s witness Christopher Kendall regarding Exhibit 1.  
 
The Court finds that Plaintiff’s Exhibit 4 consisting of
documents subpoenaed from Post Affiliate Pro were properly authenticated and
did not constitute inadmissible hearsay. 
The Court further finds that Benjamin Biri as a co-founder and
shareholder of Plaintiff as well as its Chief Technology Officer was qualified
to testify regarding the information contained in the exhibit.  
 
Similarly, the Court finds that the emails in Plaintiff’s
Exhibit 1 and Christopher Kendall’s testimony regarding same, as Plaintiff’s
person most qualified, were also properly admitted into evidence.  
 
Also relying on CCP 657(1), Defendant contends that a new
trial should be granted because the Court improperly excluded its Exhibit 43
which Defendant contended was a “standard Affiliate agreement.”  Since the document evidenced an agreement
between Defendant and a company other than Plaintiff, it had no relevance to
this action and was properly excluded.   
 
Relying on CCP 657(6), Defendant contends that a new
trial is warranted because the evidence was insufficient to justify the
$821,040.59 award to Plaintiff.  As noted
above, the evidence in support of the damage award was properly admitted.  As such, the evidence sufficiently justified
the award.  
 
Relying on CCP 657(5), Defendant argues that a new trial
should be granted, or a remittitur should be ordered, because the damages
awarded are excessive.  Defendant has not
shown that the damage award included sums which fell outside the contract
period.  As such, the damages awarded
were not excessive.
 
Finally, Defendant argues that a new trial should be
granted because the Court improperly denied its motion for nonsuit.  Defendant has failed to establish that Plaintiff,
a foreign corporation, was prohibited from bringing the action.  Defendant has not shown that Plaintiff was
transacting intrastate commerce such that Corporations Code 2203 applied to
Plaintiff.  Nor has Defendant shown that it
raised the issue in its answer or sought to amend its answer to raise such
defense so as not to have waived it. 
 
CONCLUSION
 
The motion is denied. 
 
 
 
 Dept. F47
Date: 10/27/23
Case #21CHCV00349
 
MOTION TO SET
ASIDE & VACATE THE JUDGMENT 
 
Motion filed 9/18/23.
 
MOVING PARTY: Defendant Newhere, Inc, dba CBDFX.Com
RESPONDING PARTY: Plaintiff Vaping360 GMBH
NOTICE: ok
 
RELIEF REQUESTED: An order setting aside and
vacating the judgment in this action.  
 
RULING: The motion is denied.
 
SUMMARY OF FACTS & PROCEDURAL HISTORY
 
This action arose out of the alleged breach of a contract
between Plaintiff Vaping360 GMBH (Plaintiff) and Defendant Newhere, Inc. dba
CBDFX.Com (Defendant) for use of Plaintiff’s website hyperlinks to promote and
sell Defendant’s products.  Plaintiff
contended that the contract stipulated that Plaintiff would receive commission
based on the use of the hyperlinks from Plaintiff’s website to Defendant’s
website to purchase Defendant’s products. 
 
On 7/5/23 and 7/6/23, a court trial of the action was
held after which judgment was entered for Plaintiff against Defendant on the
complaint for the principal and total amount of $821,040.59.  (See 7/5/23 and 7/6/23 Minute
Orders).  Judgment and a Statement of
Decision were signed and filed on 8/3/23. 
On 8/14/23, Plaintiff filed and served Notice of Entry of Judgment.  On 8/29/23, Defendant filed and served
notices of intent to move for new trial and to set aside and vacate the
judgment.  On 8/30/23, the Court sent
notice that the hearing on the motions was scheduled for 9/28/23.  Thereafter, pursuant to stipulation, the
hearing on the motions was continued to 10/27/23.
 
On 9/18/23, Defendant filed and served its papers in
support of the motions.  Plaintiff has
opposed the motions and Defendant has filed replies to the oppositions.  
 
ANALYSIS
 
CCP 663 provides, in relevant part: 
 
“A judgment or decree, when based
upon a decision by the court, or
the special verdict of a jury, may, upon motion of the party aggrieved, be set
aside and vacated by the same court, and another and different judgment
entered, for either of the following causes, materially affecting the
substantial rights of the party
and entitling the party to a
different judgment:
1. Incorrect or erroneous legal basis for the decision, not
consistent with or not supported by the facts;
and in such case when the judgment is set aside, the statement
of decision shall be amended and corrected.”
 
Based on arguments made in Defendant’s motion/s for
nonsuit, which was/were denied by the Court, Defendant contends that the
judgment entered in this case should be set aside and vacated because Plaintiff
is not qualified to conduct business in California and, therefore, pursuant to
Corporations Code 2203 and 2105, Plaintiff is barred from maintaining the
action against Defendant. 
 
Defendant has failed to establish that the judgment was
on an incorrect or erroneous legal basis which was not consistent or supported
by the facts.  As noted in the ruling on
Defendant’s motion for new trial, Defendant has not established that Plaintiff,
a foreign corporation, was prohibited from bringing the action.  Defendant has not shown that Plaintiff was
transacting intrastate commerce such that Corporations Code 2203 applied to
Plaintiff.  Nor has Defendant shown that it
raised the issue in its answer or sought to amend its answer to raise such
defense so as not to have waived it.  
 
CONCLUSION
 
The motion is denied. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 