  Case Number:  20SMCV01196    Hearing Date:   December 1, 2023    Dept:  205    Superior Court of California County of Los Angeles – West District  Beverly Hills Courthouse / Department 205   WILLIAM P. HOWELL, as Trustee of the Howell Family Trust,    Plaintiff, v.  SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA EDISON, et al.,    Defendants.    Case No.:  20SMCV01196      Hearing Date:  December 1, 2023   [TENTATIVE] ORDER RE:   PLAINTIFF’S MOTION FOR SUMMARY    ADJUDICATION RE: DUTY   MOVING PARTY:  Plaintiff William P. Howell, as Trustee of the Howell Family Trust  RESPONDING PARTY:  Defendant Southern California Edison (“SCE”), Edison Power Constructors, Inc. (“EPC”), Tidwell Excavation Acquisition Co. (“Tidwell”) and Hampton-Tedder Electric Company (“Hampton-Tedder”)  BACKGROUND This action arises from property damage allegedly caused by a utility company and its contractors.  The Howell Family Trust owns the property located at 604 S. Topanga Canyon Boulevard, Topanga, California (the “Property”), and Plaintiff William Howell resides at the Property with his family.  (Undisputed Material Fact (“UMF”) No. 1.)  There is a Caltrans right of way that runs parallel to the Boulevard and adjoining the Property.  (UMF No. 3.)  The Caltrans right of way contains a steel drainage pipe that is an integral part of the larger Caltrans Drainage System (the “Culvert”).  (UMF No. 4.)   The Caltrans Drainage System runs beneath the Boulevard and directs water to the Culvert, and is designed to empty onto a protected covering on the Upper Slope above the Howell driveway.  The protected covering is made of shotcrete or gunite which is intended to serve as a protective envelope shielding the underlying soil from moisture, instability and erosion.  (UMF No. 5.)  The water, having drained out of the Culvert, was then designed to run through a drainage system under the Howell driveway before discharging from an outlet onto the Lower Slope which is also covered with shotcrete.  (UMF No. 5.) The Property has been subject to frequent storms for many years.  Storms produce runoff, and where erosive soils and steep slopes are characteristic, such as at the Property, storm runoff will cause erosion of the soils and generate debris and mud that is then transported with the runoff.  The drainage system located on the Property is designed to convey storm runoff both overland and within the underground storm drainage system.  (UMF No. 26.) On or about September 30, 2019, EPC, an SCE contractor, installed Pole 751047E (the “Pole”) on the Caltrans right of way, by drilling and then installing the Pole directly into the Culvert that was part of the Caltrans Drainage System.  (UMF No. 9.)  Plaintiff claims EPC’s installation of the Pole was not done under a valid encroachment permit, which requires any applicant to adhere to Caltrans’ rules and regulations and to report to Caltrans any and all damages.  (UMF No. 11.)  EPC disputes this fact.  (Ex. A to Burtness Decl.) EPC later noticed that the Pole installed in the Culvert had “caved in,” caused visible voids around it, and that the “hillside was washed out.”  (UMF No. 12.)  EPC then inserted pole foam and gravel into the hole surrounding the Pole as a “temporary fix.”  (UMF No. 13.)  The pole foam and gravel clogged the Culvert which impeded the flow of water.  (UMF No. 14.)  On or about December 29, 2019, after heavy rains in the area, Plaintiff discovered a flood of water and debris emanating from the shotcrete covering the Upper Slope around the Culvert and washing over and under the driveway of the Property and under the shotcrete of the Lower Slope.  (UMF No. 16.) On January 10, 2020, Hampton-Tedder, another SCE contractor, was instructed to remove and relocate the Pole.  Plaintiff claims Hampton-Tedder poured a load of pea gravel on the damaged Culvert, which had not been repaired.  (UMF Nos. 20, 22.)  Hampton-Tedder denies that it installed the pea gravel.  (Hampton Tedder’s Separate Statement of Undisputed Facts (“HTSSOF”) No. 3.)        On January 12, 2020, Tidwell, another SCE contractor, was instructed to fill the hole and cap it with cement.  (UMF No. 21.)  The Culvert had not been repaired at the time Tidwell was asked to cap the hole with dirt and cement.  (UMF No. 22.)   Caltrans engineering wanted to see the extent of the erosion and damage on the Property.  SCE told Tidwell to jackhammer the Upper Slope shotcrete to expose the damaged Culvert and surrounding area, and Tidwell did so without engineering expertise or applicable permits.  (UMF No. 23.)  As a result, the jackhammering and removal of the Upper Slope shotcrete caused additional sliding and erosion to the right hand side of the Upper Slope.  (UMF No. 24.)   This hearing is on Plaintiff’s motion for summary adjudication on the issue of duty.  Plaintiff argues that Defendants SCE, EPC, Tidwell and Hampton-Tedder owed it a duty of care because “it was foreseeable and indeed an obvious risk that a pole negligently installed directly through the Culvert, followed by foam and debris poured directly into the Culvert – thereby causing a complete congestion – would impair the function of the Drainage System intended to protect the Property from heavy rains.”  SCE and EPC do not dispute they owe a duty to Plaintiff.1  And Tidwell did not file an opposition to Plaintiff’s motion for summary adjudication.   LEGAL STANDARD  Code Civ. Proc. § 437c(f)(1) provides that a party may “move for summary adjudication as to one or more causes of action, one or more affirmative defenses, one or more claims for damages or one or more issues of duty.”  Section 437c(f)(1) expressly authorizes a party to seek summary adjudication on “one or more issues of duty, if the party contends that … one or more defendants either owed or did not owe a duty to the plaintiff or plaintiffs.”  (Id.; Linden Partners v. Wilshire Linden Associates (1998) 62 Cal.App.4th 508, 522 (“The language of the statute is clear and unequivocal, a plaintiff may seek a determination of whether a defendant or defendants owed a duty to plaintiff.”).) The function of a motion for summary judgment or adjudication is to allow a determination as to whether an opposing party cannot show evidentiary support for a pleading or claim and to enable an order of summary dismissal without the need for trial.  (Aguilar v. Atlantic Ritchfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 843.)  Code Civ. Proc. §437c(c) “requires the trial judge to grant summary judgment if all the evidence submitted and ‘all inferences reasonably deducible from the evidence’ and uncontradicted by other inferences or evidence, show that there is no triable issue as to any material fact and that the moving party is entitled to judgment as a matter of law.” (Adler v. Minor Healthcare Corp. (1992) 7 Cal.App.4th 1110, 1119.)   “The function of the pleadings in a motion for summary judgment is to delimit the scope of the issues; the function of the affidavits or declarations is to disclose whether there is any triable issue of fact within the issues delimited by the pleadings.”  (Juge v. County of Sacramento (1993) 12 Cal.App.4th 59, 67).   As to each claim as framed by the complaint, a plaintiff moving for summary judgment must satisfy the initial burden of proof by presenting facts to establish an essential element of the claim(s) or by negating an affirmative defense.  (Code Civ. Proc. §437c(p)(2); Scalf v. D.B. Log Homes, Inc. (2005) 128 Cal.App.4th 1510, 1520.)  Courts “liberally construe the evidence in support of the party opposing summary judgment and resolve doubts concerning the evidence in favor of that party.”  (Dore v. Arnold Worldwide, Inc. (2006) 39 Cal.4th 384, 389.)  Once the plaintiff has met its burden, the burden shifts to the defendant to show that a triable issue of one or more material facts exists as to that cause of action or a defense thereto.  (Id.)  To establish a triable issue of material fact, the party opposing the motion must produce substantial responsive evidence.  (Sangster v. Paetkau (1998) 68 Cal.App.4th 151, 166.) REQUEST FOR JUDICIAL NOTICE Hampton-Tedder requests judicial notice of the National Weather Service’s Climatological Data for Santa Monica Pier, California.  The Court grants the request pursuant to Cal. Evid. Code §§452(h) and 453.   EVIDENTIARY OBJECTIONS The Court declines to consider EPC’s evidentiary objections as they are made to the separate statement of facts, rather than to the evidence in support of such facts. (Concerned Citizens of S. Cent. L.A. v. Astroturf Corp., 2023 Cal. Super. LEXIS 9480 at *7 (declining to rule on evidentiary objections that refer to specific facts in the¿separate statement without identifying the specific document or exhibit that makes the fact objectionable).)  DISCUSSION The threshold element of a cause of action for negligence is the existence of a duty to use due care.¿ (Bily v. Arthur Young & Co. (1992) 3 Cal.4th 370, 397.)  As a general rule, each person has a duty to use ordinary care and “is liable for injuries caused by his failure¿to exercise reasonable care in the circumstances … .” (Rowland v. Christian (1968) 69 Cal.2d 108, 112; see¿Civ. Code, § 1714.)  This general rule applies to public utilities, which have “a general duty to exercise reasonable care in the management of [their] personal and real property.” (White v. Southern Cal. Edison Co. (1994) 25 Cal.App.4th 442, 447.)  “[W]hether a duty of care exists in a given circumstance, is a question of law to be determined [by the court] on a case-by-case basis.” (Parsons v. Crown Disposal Co. (1997) 15 Cal.4th 456, 472.)¿ This determination involves the balancing of various factors, including “the foreseeability of harm to the plaintiff, the degree of certainty that the plaintiff suffered injury, the closeness of the connection between the defendant’s conduct and the injury suffered, the moral blame attached to the defendant’s conduct, the policy of preventing future harm, the extent of the burden to the defendant and consequences to the community of imposing a duty to exercise care with resulting liability for breach, and the availability, cost, and prevalence of insurance for the risk involved.” (Ann M. v. Pacific Plaza Shopping Center¿(1993) 6 Cal.4th 666, 675, fn. 5, quoting¿Rowland v. Christian, 69 Cal.2d at 113.) “The foreseeability of the harm, though not determinative, has become the chief factor in duty analysis.” (Scott v. Chevron U.S.A. (1992) 5 Cal.App.4th 510, 515.)  The California Supreme Court discussed the foreseeability analysis in¿Bigbee v. Pacific Tel. & Tel. Co. (1983) 34 Cal.3d 49.  In that case, the plaintiff was inside a telephone booth located in a parking lot 15 feet away from the curb when¿a drunk driver veered off the street and crashed into the booth, injuring the plaintiff.  (Id. at 52–54.)¿The plaintiff sued the entities that installed and maintained the telephone booth, alleging that the booth was negligently located too close to the street.  (Id. at 53.)¿The defendants moved for summary judgment, which the trial court granted.  The Supreme Court reversed.  Regarding the issue of foreseeability, the Supreme Court explained: “In pursuing this inquiry, it is well to remember that ‘foreseeability is not to be measured by what is more probable than not, but includes whatever is likely enough in the setting of modern life that a reasonably thoughtful [person] would take account of it in guiding practical conduct.’ [Citation.] One may be held accountable for creating even ‘the risk of a slight possibility of injury if a reasonably prudent [person] would not do so.’ [Citations.] Moreover, it is settled that what is required to be foreseeable is the general character of the event or harm—e.g., being struck by a car while standing in a phone booth—not its precise nature or manner of occurrence.”  (Id. at 57–58.) Foreseeability with respect to the analysis of duty must¿be distinguished from foreseeability in the context of determining negligence (i.e., breach of duty) or causation.  In analyzing¿duty, the¿court’s task “is not to decide whether a¿particular¿plaintiff's injury was reasonably foreseeable in light of a¿particular¿defendant’s conduct, but rather to evaluate more generally whether the category of negligent conduct at issue is sufficiently likely to result in the kind of harm experienced that liability may appropriately be imposed on the negligent party.  Viewed in this light, the question of foreseeability in a “duty” context is a limited one for the court, and readily contrasted with the fact-specific foreseeability questions bearing on negligence (breach of duty) and proximate causation posed to the jury or trier of fact.”  (Scott, 5 Cal.App.4th at 516.)¿Thus, while foreseeability¿with respect to duty is determined by focusing on the general character of the event (Bigbee, 34 Cal.3d at p. 57), foreseeability in evaluating negligence and causation requires a “more focused, fact-specific” inquiry that takes into account a particular plaintiff's injuries and the particular defendant’s conduct.  (Ballard v. Uribe¿(1986) 41 Cal.3d 564, 572–573, fn. 6.)¿ The “general character of the event” in this case is the installation of the Pole into the Culvert and the congestion of the Culvert with foam and gravel, resulting in soil erosion and mudslides during a heavy storm.  The Court concludes this event is foreseeable for purposes of an analysis of duty; that is, soil erosion after drilling a hole into a drainage pipe and clogging it with foam and gravel is “likely enough in the setting of modern life that a reasonably thoughtful [person] would take account of it in guiding practical conduct.” (Bigbee v. Pacific Tel. & Tel. Co., 34 Cal.3d at 57.)  The Court thus finds no difficulty in concluding that the category of negligent conduct at issue here is sufficiently likely to result in the kind of harm experienced. Hampton-Tedder is the only defendant that opposes summary adjudication on the issue of duty.  Hampton-Tedder argues there is a disputed issue as to whether it installed the pea gravel and even if it installed it, whether the installation caused the damage to Plaintiff.  These arguments go to whether there is a breach of duty and causation.  They do not go to the issue of duty.   Accordingly, the Court grants summary adjudication in favor of Plaintiff on the issue of duty. CONCLUSION For the foregoing reasons, the Court GRANTS Plaintiff’s motion for summary adjudication on the issue of duty.    IT IS SO ORDERED.  DATED: December 1, 2023    ___________________________ Edward B. Moreton, Jr. Judge of the Superior Court 