 Case Number:  22AHCV00822    Hearing Date:   August 16, 2024    Dept:  3 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - NORTHEAST
DISTRICT
 



JOHN LE NGUYEN, 
                    Plaintiff(s),
          vs.
 
MINH LE
   NGUYEN,
 
                    Defendant(s).


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


     CASE NO.:  22AHCV00822
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: MOTION TO APPOINT PARTITION REFEREE 
 
Dept.
  3
8:30
  a.m.
August 16,
  2024




 


)


 



 
On February 27, 2024, plaintiff John Le
Nguyen (“Plaintiff”) filed this motion requesting the Court appoint a referee to
carry out the sale of the property located at 2070 Meridian Avenue, South
Pasadena, California 91030 (the “South Pasadena Property”) and order that the
costs of the sale and fees of the referee be paid from the sale proceeds. At
the previous hearing on July 12, 2024, the Court continued the hearing on this
motion and ordered the parties to meet and confer on selecting a referee. The
parties were also ordered to submit a joint statement in which they would
nominate up to 3 individuals who are willing to serve as a referee in this
matter and include each individuals’ curricula vitae, fee schedules, and any
other information. The joint statement was also supposed to include a
description of efforts made to reach an agreement on who the referee should be.
The Court informed the parties that if the parties were unable to reach an
agreement, the Court would choose one of the nominees identified in the report
and appoint them as a referee for the sale of the South Pasadena Property. 
No joint statement has been filed since
the last hearing. Accordingly, the Court has no nominees for reference to
choose from and the motion to appoint a referee is DENIED without prejudice. 
Dated
this 16th
day of August, 2024
 




 


 




 


       William A.
  Crowfoot
Judge of the Superior Court
 




 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at ALHDEPT3@lacourt.org indicating
intention to submit on the tentative as directed by the instructions provided
on the court website at www.lacourt.org. Please be advised that if you submit
on the tentative and elect not to appear at the hearing, the opposing party may
nevertheless appear at the hearing and argue the matter. Unless you receive a
submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume that others
might appear at the hearing to argue. If the Court does not receive emails from
the parties indicating submission on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may, at its discretion, adopt the
tentative as the final order or place the motion off calendar.
 