 Case Number:  23AHCV00974    Hearing Date:   August 16, 2024    Dept:  3 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - NORTHEAST
DISTRICT
 



EUGENE LEE, 
                    Plaintiff(s),
          vs.
 
KIA
   AMERICA, INC., et al., 
 
                    Defendant(s).


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


      CASE NO.: 23AHCV00974
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: DEFENANT KIA AMERICA, INC.’S MOTION FOR SUMMARY
  JUDGMENT
 
 
Dept.
  3
8:30
  a.m.
August
   16, 2024



 
I.           
INTRODUCTION 
On May 1,
2023, plaintiff Eugene Lee (“Plaintiff”) filed this action against defendant
Kia America, Inc. (“Defendant”) asserting causes of action or negligence,
strict products liability, and breach of express and implied warranty. The
action arises from a motor vehicle collision that took place on or about
October 7, 2022. (Compl., ¶ 7.) Plaintiff alleges he suffered injuries to his
head, back, and lower extremities when his vehicle rear-ended another vehicle
that abruptly stopped on the freeway due to debris. (Compl., ¶ 7.) Plaintiff
alleges these injuries were preventable and that the injuries resulted from his
body striking the interior of the vehicle after the airbag failed to deploy.
(Compl., ¶¶ 7-8.) 
On April 5,
2024, Defendant filed this motion for summary judgment. Defendant argues that
the product at issue, a 2016 Kia Optima, did not have a defect that caused
Plaintiff’s alleged injuries. (Motion, p. 2.) 
Plaintiff
filed an opposition brief on August 1, 2024. 
Defendant
filed a reply brief on August 9, 2024. 
II.         
LEGAL STANDARD
A defendant moving for summary judgment
“has met his or her burden of showing that a cause of action has no merit if
the party has shown that one or more elements of the cause of action . . .
cannot be established, or that there is a complete defense to the cause of
action.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (p)(2).) To meet this burden of
showing a cause of action cannot be established, a defendant must show not only
“that the plaintiff does not possess needed evidence” but also that “the
plaintiff cannot reasonably obtain needed evidence.” (Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001)
25 Cal.4th 826, 854.) A moving defendant need not conclusively negate an
element of plaintiff’s cause of action, but it is insufficient for the
defendant to merely point out the absence of evidence. (Id. at p. 854;
Gaggero v. Yura (2003) 108 Cal.App.4th 884, 891.) The supporting evidence
can be in the form of affidavits, declarations, admissions, depositions,
answers to interrogatories, and matters of which judicial notice may be taken.
(Aguilar, supra, 25 Cal.4th at
p. 855.) “Once the defendant . . . has met that burden, the burden shifts to
the plaintiff . . . to show that a triable issue of one or more material facts
exists as to the cause of action or a defense thereto.” (Code Civ. Proc., §
437c, subd. (p)(2).) The plaintiff may not merely rely on allegations or
denials of its pleadings to show that a triable issue of material fact exists,
but instead, “shall set forth the specific facts showing that a triable issue
of material fact exists as to the cause of action.” (Ibid.) “If the plaintiff cannot do so, summary judgment should be
granted.” (Avivi v. Centro Medico Urgente
Medical Center (2008) 159 Cal.App.4th 463, 467.)
III.       
EVIDENTIARY OBJECTIONS
Defendant’s
Objections 1 through 3 are SUSTAINED. The website recall information and email
between counsel is irrelevant and the report from the purported expert Felix
Lee is not presented as a sworn affidavit or declaration. 
IV.       
DISCUSSION 
Defendant argues that all of
Plaintiff’s causes of action fail because Plaintiff cannot prove that the
airbags in the 2016 Kia Optima were defective or that the alleged defects in
the 2016 Kia Optima caused his injuries. (Demara v. The Raymond Corp.
(2017) 13 Cal.App.5th 545, 553, citing Webb v. Special Electric Co., Inc. (2016)
63 Cal.4th 167, 179; see also Stephen v. Ford Motor Co. (2005) 134
Cal.App.4th 1363, 1373 (“A product liability case must be based on substantial
evidence establishing both the defect and causation (a substantial probability
that the design defect, and not something else, caused the plaintiff’s injury .
. . “).)
However, many of Defendant’s material
facts rely on evidence in exhibits contained in the Declaration of Dommond E. Lonnie
(“Lonnie Declaration”), which has not been filed in the record. It appears from
Defendant’s proof of service that Plaintiff was served with the Lonnie
Declaration and the attached exhibits; therefore, notice does not appear to be
at issue. Nevertheless, the more pressing point is that there is no admissible
evidence supporting Defendant’s motion in the record. Instead, the only
evidence which has been filed in support of Defendant’s motion is the expert
declaration of Sarah Sharpe, Ph.D. However, Dr. Sharpe’s opinion is premised on
facts derived from that evidence in the Lonnie Declaration that is not currently
in the record. “Where an expert bases his conclusion upon assumptions which are
not supported by the record, upon matters which are not reasonably relied upon
by other experts, or upon factors which are speculative, remote or conjectural,
then his conclusion has no evidentiary value. [Citations.] In those
circumstances the expert's opinion cannot rise to the dignity of substantial
evidence.” (Borger v. Department of Motor Vehicles (2011) 192
Cal.App.4th 1118, 1122 [citations omitted].) Accordingly, because Defendant’s
motion is effectively unsupported by any admissible evidence, Defendant has not
met its burden to show that Plaintiff cannot prevail on this action.  
Accordingly, the Court continues
the hearing so that Defendant can file with the Court the Lonnie Declaration
and the attached exhibits already served on Plaintiff. Defendant is ordered to
file the missing declaration no later than 10 court days before the new hearing
date. The Court is not inviting and will not consider any additional briefing 
V.      CONCLUSION
          The hearing
on this motion is continued to September 20, 2024 at 8:30 a.m. in Department 3
of the Alhambra Courthouse.  
Moving party to give notice.  
 
Dated
this 16th
day of August
2024 
 




 


 




 


William A. Crowfoot
Judge of the Superior Court




 
 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at ALHDEPT3@lacourt.org indicating
intention to submit on the tentative as directed by the instructions provided
on the court website at www.lacourt.org. 
Please be advised that if you submit on the tentative and elect not to appear
at the hearing, the opposing party may nevertheless appear at the hearing and
argue the matter.  Unless you receive a
submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume that others
might appear at the hearing to argue.  If
the Court does not receive emails from the parties indicating submission on
this tentative ruling and there are no appearances at the hearing, the Court
may, at its discretion, adopt the tentative as the final order or place the
motion off calendar.