  Case Number:  22STCV33251    Hearing Date:   August 6, 2024    Dept:  V SUPERIOR COURT OF CALIFORNIA
COUNTY OF LOS
ANGELES – NORTHEAST DISTRICT
DEPARTMENT V
LACHICA OUSLEY, an individual, ANGELIQUE JOHNSON
OUSLEY, an individual,

Plaintiffs,

vs.

HOLIDAY INN EXPRESS / SUED HOLLYWOOD STAY LLC HOTEL; SHERRI HOODWORTH,

Defendants.

Case No.: 22STCV33251
Hearing Date: August 6, 2024
Time: 9:00 a.m. 

[TENTATIVE] ORDER RE: DEFENDANT HOLLYWOOD STAY HOTEL, LLC’S DEMURRER TO
PLAINTIFFS’ THIRD AMENDED COMPLAINT
MOVING PARTIES: Defendant HOLLYWOOD STAY HOTEL,
LLC
RESPONDING PARTY: Unopposed
The court considered the moving papers.
BACKGROUND
Plaintiffs Lachica Ousley (Ousley) and Angelique
Johnson Ousley (collectively, plaintiffs) filed the complaint against
defendants Hollywood Stay Hotel, LLC (Hollywood Stay), erroneously sued and
served as Holiday Inn Express Hotel, and Sherri Hoodworth (collectively,
defendants) on October 11, 2022. This case arises out of injuries sustained at
defendants’ hotel, potentially from a treadmill.
On July 7, 2023, the court sustained Hollywood
Stay’s demurrer with leave to amend. The court found that Plaintiff’s complaint
did not sufficiently identify any cognizable causes of action to which
defendants could reply. Plaintiffs’ First Amended Complaint (FAC) was rejected
by the court for failure to include a case number. Plaintiffs sought leave of
the court to file a Second Amended Complaint (SAC). On February 2, 2024, the
court sustained defendants’ demurrer to the SAC with 20 days leave to amend.
The court found that the SAC does not cure the defects of plaintiffs’ complaint
because the pleadings were still uncertain.
Plaintiffs filed their Third Amended Complaint
(TAC) on February 5, 2024. Hollywood Stay demurred to the TAC on April 23,
2024. No opposition has been filed.
REQUEST FOR JUDICIAL NOTICE
Hollywood Stay requests the court to take
judicial notice of the Third Amended Complaint. The court takes judicial notice
of the TAC pursuant to Evidence Code section 452(d).
LEGAL STANDARD
A party may object to a complaint or
cross-complaint; the party may file a demurrer, an answer, or both. (Code of
Civ. Proc., § 430.30.) The demurrer may be filed within 30 days after service
of the complaint or cross-complaint unless extended by stipulation or court
order. (Code of Civ. Proc. § 430.40(a).)
As a general matter, in a demurrer proceeding,
the defects must be apparent on the face of the pleading or via proper judicial
notice. (Donabedian v. Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994.) “A
demurrer tests the pleading alone, and not the evidence or facts alleged.”
(E-Fab, Inc. v. Accountants, Inc. Servs. (2007) 153 Cal.App.4th 1308, 1315.) As
such, the court assumes the truth of the complaint’s properly pleaded or
implied factual allegations. (Id.) The only issue a demurrer is concerned with
is whether the complaint, as it stands, states a cause of action. (Hahn v.
Mirda (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747.)
DISCUSSION
A. Meet and Confer
Code of Civil Procedure section 430.41(a)
requires that the moving party meet and confer with the party who filed the
pleading that is subject to the demurrer. Hollywood Stay met and conferred with
plaintiff via email on March 1, 2024, and telephone call on March 4, 2024.
(Decl. of Danica J. Brustkern, ¶ 6; Exh. B.) Accordingly, this requirement has
been met.
B. Demurrer
The court finds that the TAC does not cure the
defects of the SAC because the pleadings are still uncertain. Uncertainty is
defined as ambiguous and unintelligible by Code of Civil Procedure section
430.10. A demurrer for uncertainty should be granted “if the pleading is so
incomprehensible that a defendant cannot reasonably respond.” (A.J. Fistes
Corp. v. GDL Best Contractors, Inc. (2019) 38 Cal.App.5th 677, 695.)
The TAC is a handwritten form complaint with an
additional two handwritten pleading pages a lot of which is unintelligible and
ambiguous.
The first page includes handwriting that is
difficult to read and make sense of. The court gleans that Plaintiffs “want to
recover compensation for being in pain cause of actions”. Plaintiffs allege
“defendants held liable [for a] physical injury claim.” Other than that, what
is understandable are the following words and phrases, “the essential elements
to pleading a cause of injury”, “bad faith dangerous condition of property”,
“punitive damages”, “a claim for liability condition of property”, and
“10,000,000 million under California law”. This section does not provide
allegations that defendant can reasonably respond to.
The second page provides little additional
information besides the address of the Holiday Inn Express in Burbank and that
injury to person or damage to personal property occurred in the jurisdictional
area of the court.
On the third page, plaintiffs indicated that
attachments for general negligence and premises liability causes of actions
would be attached to the complaint. Plaintiffs also allege they suffered wage
loss; general damages awarded for losses that are not easily quantifiable for
example pain and suffering, physical pain, emotional distress, and mental
anguish that the injured has suffered; and burns to shoulder rotator right
shoulder. Plaintiffs also pray for punitive damages “defendant for outrageous
conduct similar to which formed the basis of the lawsuit”. While plaintiffs
alleged two distinct causes of action, general negligence and premises
liability, plaintiffs fail to plead these causes of action with certainty in
the rest of the TAC, as discussed below.
On the fourth and fifth pages, plaintiffs list the
following: negligence, emotional distress, physical torts, fraud and negligent
misrepresentation, chapter 6 product’s liability, and chapter 9 real property
torts. Plaintiffs also include the following phrases: “what legally makes a
product”; “what is the cause of action for product defect?”; “product liability
is a doctrine that gives plaintiffs a consumer item this doctrine can fall
under liability, meaning that defendants can be held liable regardless of their
intent or knowledge”; and when the plaintiff proves that the product has a
condition that makes it unsafe for other human beings.” These phrases are at
most attempts at correct statements of law.
On the last two pages, from what the court can
understand, plaintiffs allege that they are “suing the hotel premises for
negligently not maintaining an equipment on the property.” Plaintiffs allege
that in the state of California owners have a legal duty to maintain safe
property conditions while adequately warning guests and visitors of hazard.
Plaintiffs allege that premises liability include, among others, accidents
resulting from property conditions like the case she is filing. Here,
plaintiffs state plaintiffs include an adult and a minor child. Again, at most,
plaintiffs are providing the applicable law for premises liability.
Plaintiffs also allege that they have all medical records, dates and pictures
and video. Plaintiffs allege that the hotel did not call the ambulance when
they ran to the front desk yelling, crying with severe bad injuries and burns.
Plaintiffs allege that when they ran to the front desk crying and begging for help,
they were given a first aid kit and told to go back to their room. Plaintiffs
allege a yellow cab was called to the hotel with some papers printed out with
an urgent care address the hotel referred them to. Plaintiffs allege they are
traumatized. Plaintiffs allege they have video with the treadmill lifted
up in the air from the back that would not stop running and Ousley falling
forward and her two-year old daughter stuck underneath it.
 Here, despite plaintiffs attempts to relate the
events underlying the cause of action and listing causes of action, the TAC is
still uncertain because large portions of it are unintelligible, Plaintiffs
provide ambiguous details of what occurred on the premises and allege nothing
beyond an accident at the hotel that involved a treadmill, Ousley and her
daughter, and injuries and burns. Because the TAC is uncertain, defendant
cannot reasonably respond to the TAC. This is the fourth attempt by plaintiff to
cure the defects, and plaintiff has not opposed the demurrer. Although it is
the rare case that the court will not grant leave to amend, the court finds it
is appropriate to deny leave to amend here where plaintiffs have made four
attempts to state a claim, have not filed responsive pleadings and have not
asked for leave to amend.
Based on the
foregoing, the court sustains defendant Hollywood Stay Hotel, LLC’s demurrer to
the Third Amended Complaint, and grants its motion to dismiss.