 Case Number:  23STCV21862    Hearing Date:   May 30, 2024    Dept:  17 Superior
Court of California
County
of Los Angeles
 
DEPARTMENT 17
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 



PAUL
  MORRIS 
                           
         vs.
 
GARY
  KELLER, et al. 
 
 


 Case No.: 
  23STCV21862
 
 
 
 Hearing
  Date:  May 30, 2024



 
 
Defendant’s motion to compel arbitration is GRANTED. This
matter is ordered stayed pending the completion of arbitration proceedings.

 
            On
9/11/2023, Paul Morris (Plaintiff) initiated this action. On 1/4/2024,
Plaintiff filed a first amended complaint (FAC) against Gary Keller, Tom R.
Lamphere, Jan S. Richey, Caltex Millennium, LLC, and Keller Williams Realty,
Inc., alleging: (1) intentional interference with prospective business
advantage; (2) negligent interference with prospective business advantage; and
(3) unfair competition. 
 
            On
4/2/2024, Defendants Gary Keller, CalTex Millennium, LLC, and Keller Williams
Realty (collectively, Defendants) moved to compel Plaintiff to arbitrate this
action, and stay proceedings. 
 
Legal Standard 
 
Where the Court has determined that an agreement to
arbitrate a controversy exists, the Court shall order the petitioner and the
respondent to arbitrate the controversy …unless it determines that…  grounds exist for rescission of the
agreement.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 1281.2.) Among the grounds which can support
rescission are fraud, duress, and unconscionability. (Tiri v. Lucky Chances, Inc. (2014) 226 Cal.App.4th 231, 239.) The
Court may also decline to compel arbitration wherein there is possibility of
conflicting rulings on a common issue of law or fact. (Code Civ. Proc., §
1281.2 (c).) 
 
Discussion 
 
The party moving to compel arbitration “bears the burden
of proving [the] existence [of an arbitration agreement] by a preponderance of
the evidence.” (Rosenthal v. Great
Western Fin. Securities Corp. (1996) 14 Cal.4th 394, 413.) The moving party
also bears the burden of demonstrating that the claims fall within the scope of
the arbitration agreement. (Omar v.
Ralphs Grocery Co. (2004) 118 Cal.App.4th 955, 961.)
 
A.   
Existing Agreement
 
Here, Defendants
submitted evidence that Plaintiff is compelled to arbitrate under two different
agreements: (1) a Letter Agreement signed on 5/7/2006; and (2) a Regional
Representative Agreement (RRA) entered into on 1/8/2016.
 
As for the
Letter Agreement, the Letter Agreement stated: 
 
Arbitration.
Any dispute or controversy arising under or in connection with this agreement
shall be settled exclusively by binding arbitration to be held in Dallas
County, Texas, in accordance with the rules of the American Arbitration
Association then in effect.
 
            (Lamphere
Decl., Exh. A., ¶ 12.)
 
            While
the Letter Agreement contained a provision—paragraph two—which states that it
expired after five years—Defendants submitted evidence that Plaintiff continued
to be Regional Director for CalTex long after that five year period and CalTex
and Morris continued to operate under the Letter Agreement until CalTex
terminated Morris’s role as noticed in June 2021. (See e.g. Lamphere
Decl., ¶ 7.) To show a clear intent and belief to extend the Letter Agreement,
Defendants note that “Lamphere specifically referenced the Letter Agreement in
his termination email to Morris and gave Morris the 90 days’ advance notice of
termination required under the Letter Agreement. If the Letter Agreement were
not still in effect at that time, Morris could have been terminated with no
notice, and CalTex could have avoided paying Morris for an extra three months’
of services.” (Motion, 8: 20-23.)  
 
            Defendants
submitted case law to show that where the parties’ actions manifest a clear and
unequivocal intent to continue performing under the contract, the prior,
written contract is extended and the arbitration clause survives with the rest
of the agreement. (Sieber & Calicutt, Inc. v. La Gloria Oil & Gas Co.,
66 S.W.3d 340, 347 (Tex. App.—Tyler 2001, pet. denied) (contract and its terms
continued past expiration date due to parties’ continued performance; “The
extension of a term of a contract is the extension of all of its provisions.”);
ALCOA v. Hydrochem Indus. Services, Inc., No. 13-02- 00531-CV, 2005 WL
608232, at *2 (Tex. App.—Corpus Christi–Edinburg Mar. 17, 2005, pet. denied) (“[T]he
course of dealings between the parties showed that contracts had frequently
been extended beyond their express expiration date.”); see also Double
Diamond, Inc. v. Hilco Elec. Co-op., Inc., 127 S.W.3d 260, 267 (Tex.
App.—Waco 2003, no pet.) (“We find no authority, and Hilco has directed us to
none, prohibiting parties from impliedly extending an agreement or entering
into a new agreement after a written agreement expires.”). This also can be
thought of as the parties agreeing to waive only the expiration clause of the
agreement. See Celadon Trucking Services, Inc. v. Lugo’s Sec. Agency,
No. 04-05-00018-CV, 2005 WL 2401886, at *2 (Tex. App.—San Antonio Sept. 28,
2005, no pet.) (“A contract provision for an exact date of performance can be
waived by the parties.”)
 
            In
opposition, Plaintiff did not submit any evidence to show that there was no
intent to continue performing under the Letter Agreement, nor did Plaintiff
address any of Defendant’s caselaw or attempt to distinguish those cases from
the facts here. Rather, Plaintiff argued in full: 
 
The Letter
Agreement which contained the arbitration clause expired before Plaintiff filed
suit. Any course of dealing after expiration did not in any way reflect an
agreement to the original terms. Simply put there was no agreement to arbitrate
in this case. The California Supreme Court has held that "[t]o presumes [sic]
arbitrability without first establishing, independently, consent to arbitration
is to place the proverbial cart before the horse." (Sandquist v. Lebo
Auto., Inc., 1 Cal. 5th 233, 252 (2016); (See also, Litton Financial
Printing Div. v. NLRB, (1991) 501 U. S. 190) .
 
            (Opp.,
8: 19-9:7.) 
 
As such, the
only oppositional argument advanced by Plaintiff is a conclusory one that the
agreement expired, and a recitation of generic caselaw concerning the need to
establish the existence of an agreement to arbitrate. (“This failure to cite pertinent
legal authority is enough reason to reject the argument”); Akins v. State of
California (1998) 61 Cal.App.4th 1, 50, 71 (contention waived by failure to
cite legal authority).
 
            As
for the RRA, Defendant submitted evidence that while it was signed by KWRI and
CalTex, “Morris, Lamphere, and Richey, as Controlling Principals and
Representatives’ Principals each agreed to be bound on their individual behalf
to perform under the RRA.” (Motion, 4: 10-12; Id. at Ex. A.) 
 
            Plaintiff
did not address this contention at all in opposition, but rather argued “[a]s
established, Plaintiff is not a signatory to the RRA. Indeed, CalTax and KWI
are the only parties to the agreement.” As such, Plaintiff has not refuted
Defendants’ contention that Plaintiff agreed to individually undertake the
obligations to perform under the RRA. Nor does Plaintiff respond to Defendants’
arguments with respect to equitable estoppel claims.  
 
            Accordingly,
the Court concludes that the preponderance of evidence indicates the existence
of an arbitration agreement. 
 
            The
Court also finds Plaintiff’s claims to be covered within the scope of the
arbitration clause. 
 
The RRA
contains a broad scope of arbitration covering disputes that “arise[] under or
in relation to this Agreement or between or among Representative, any member of
Representative’s Group [of which Morris was a member and was a signatory to the
RRA] and Company, [etc.] . . . .” (Lamphere Decl., Exh. A.) The Letter
Agreement contains a broad arbitration clause that applies to all disputes
“arising under or in connection with this agreement.” (Ibid.) 
 
Throughout
the Complaint, Morris’ focus is his role as Regional Director of CalTex which
was put into place by the Letter Agreement and which is a role required and
noted specifically by the RRA:
 
Morris’
allegations focus on whether that role would be changed in some way—i.e., to a
different role of Regional Operating Principal of certain regions, including
CalTex’s Region (¶ 12.C); to remain as Regional Director of certain regions,
including CalTex’s Region (¶ 12.D); or whether Morris would become majority
owner of the CalTex Region (¶ 12.E). [Compl. ¶¶ 13- 21.] Morris alleges that in
May 2021, Keller (of KWRI) changed his position about Morris and would not
approve him to be Regional Operating Principal of certain regions, including
CalTex’s Region, and would not “help Morris with the purchase of Lamphere’s
region.” [Id. at ¶¶ 22-23.] Ultimately, Morris alleges (but Keller denies) that
Keller told Lamphere (and thus CalTex) “to fire Morris from the Regional
Director role” of CalTex, which Lamphere then did in June 2021 
when he
terminated the Letter Agreement. [Id. at ¶¶ 24-28.]
 
                        (Motion,
10: 6-7.)
 
            All
of these allegations (which are incorporated into and form the basis of each of
the causes of action) relate to the Letter Agreement as they relate to Morris’
role of Regional Director that was put into place by the Letter Agreement. [Id.
at ¶¶ 29, 37, 43.]
 
Given that Defendant has established by a preponderance
of the evidence that an arbitration agreement exists, and that Plaintiff’s
claims are covered by that agreement, the burden shifts to the Plaintiff to
establish that the arbitration clause should not be enforced. (Pinnacle Museum Tower Assn. v. Pinnacle
Market Development (US), LLC (2012) 55 Cal.4th 223, 236. (Pinnacle).)
 
II.              
Plaintiff’s Burden  
 
The party opposing arbitration bears the burden of
proving, by a preponderance of the evidence any defense, such as
unconscionability or duress. (Pinnacle,
supra, 55 Cal.4th at p. 236.) 
 
            Here,
Plaintiff did not advance any defense to enforceability. As such, he has not
met his burden to show that the arbitration agreement should be not be
enforced. 
 
Based on the foregoing, Defendant’s motion to compel
arbitration is granted. This matter is ordered stayed pending the completion of
arbitration proceedings.
 
 
 
It is so ordered. 
 
Dated:  May   
, 2024
                                                                                                                                                           
   Hon. Jon R.
Takasugi
   Judge of the Superior Court
 
 
 
Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must
send an email to the court at smcdept17@lacourt.org
by 4 p.m. the day prior as directed by the instructions provided on the court
website at www.lacourt.org.  If a party submits
on the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must
identify the party submitting on the tentative. 
If all parties to a motion submit, the court will adopt this
tentative as the final order.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  For more information, please contact the court clerk at (213)
633-0517.  
 
 