  Case Number:  22STCV30718    Hearing Date:   May 30, 2024    Dept:  17 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
 
DEPARTMENT
17
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 



BRETT GAGNON, an
  individual, and in 
a directive
  capacity on behalf of GEMINON PROPERTIES, LLC
 
        
  vs.
 
ARSALAN HAMIDI 
 


 Case
  No.:  22STCV30718 
 
 
 
 Hearing Date: May 30, 2024 



 
 
Michelangelo
Tatone’s motion to be relieved as Plaintiff’s counsel is GRANTED.  
 
Legal Standard
 
Motions to withdraw are routinely
granted if made in the proper form and presented with proper notice. The court
may issue an order allowing an attorney to withdraw from representation, after
notice to the client.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 284(2).) 
 
Discussion 
 
Attorney Michelangelo
Tatone brings the instant motion for relief as counsel as to Plaintiff Brett
Gagnon. 
 
Mr. Tatone
explains that Plaintiff has been non-responsive and failed to comply with
multiple obligations.   
 
Given the looming
jury trial date of 6/24/2024, the Court would ordinarily deny this request due
to the risk of prejudice to the client. However, Plaintiff filed a substitution
of attorney on 5/17/2024, indicating that Plaintiff has already secured
replacement counsel. Accordingly, the Court is persuaded the risk of prejudice
is mitigated. 
 
The following
documents are properly submitted: Civil Form MC-051 “Notice of Motion and
Motion to be Relieved as Counsel,” Civil Form MC-052 “Declaration in Support of
Attorney’s Motion to be Relieved as Counsel,” and Civil Form MC-053 “Order
Granting Attorney’s Motion to be Relieved as Counsel.” 
 
             
 
            The
motion is GRANTED.
 
It is so ordered. 
 
Dated:  May   
, 2024
                                                                                                                                                           
   Hon. Jon R.
Takasugi
   Judge of the
Superior Court
 
 
 
Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must
send an email to the court at smcdept17@lacourt.org
by 4 p.m. the day prior as directed by the instructions provided on the court
website at www.lacourt.org.  If a party submits
on the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must
identify the party submitting on the tentative. 
If all parties to a motion submit, the court will adopt this
tentative as the final order.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  For more information, please contact the court clerk at (213)
633-0517.  
 
 
 
 
 