  Case Number:  23VECV03440    Hearing Date:   January 9, 2025    Dept:  107 


 
 
 
SUPERIOR COURT OF THE
  STATE OF CALIFORNIA
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES
NORTHWEST DISTRICT
 




Hasmik
  Sukiasyan,
 
Plaintiff.
 
   v.
 
BMW
  of North America, LLC. 
 
Defendant.
 


 
 
   Case Number             Department
  23VECV03440                     107




 
 
COURT’S [TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE:       
 



[THE FOLLOWING IS A TENTATIVE RULING IN THE ABOVE CASE]:  Grant
in the reduced amount of $26,742.05.
 
 
I.               
BACKGROUND 
 
On
August 7, 2023, Plaintiff Hasmik Sukiasyan (“Plaintiff”) filed a complaint
against Defendants BMW of North America, LLC, Mini at Universal City, (“Defendants”)
and Does 1 through 50, alleging causes of action for: (1) violation of
Song-Beverly Act – breach of express warranty; (2) violation of Song-Beverly
Act – breach of implied warranty; (3) violation of the Song-Beverly Act section
1793.2, subdivision (b); and (4) violation of the Song-Beverly Act section
1796.5.
 
On
May 29, 2024, Plaintiff filed a notice of settlement.
 
On
November 13, 2024, Plaintiff filed a motion for attorneys’ fees (the “Motion”).
On December 18, 2024, Defendants filed an opposition. On December 24, 2024,
Plaintiff filed a reply.
 
II.            
DEFENDANTS’
OBJECTIONS
 
Defendants
raise seven objections to Michael Saeedian’s declaration.
 
This
court sustains Objection Nos. 1 through 6 because Saeedian does not appear to
have personal knowledge of these matters. (See Evid. Code §¿702.)
 
This
court overrules Objection No. 7.
 
III.          
LEGAL
STANDARD 
The settlement agreement
provided that Plaintiff could recover “‘attorney’s fees and costs reasonably
incurred by Plaintiff” by way of a stipulation agreed upon between the parties,
or, if the parties cannot agree on an amount, by way of a noticed ‘motion to
the Court.’” (Saeedian Declaration ¶
21.)
 
Further,
California Civil Code section 1794, subdivision (d) states:
 
If the buyer
prevails in an action under this section, the buyer shall be allowed by the
court to recover as part of the judgment a sum equal to the aggregate amount of
costs and expenses, including attorney's fees based on actual time expended,
determined by the court to have been reasonably incurred by the buyer in
connection with the commencement and prosecution of such action.
 
“The plain
wording of the statute requires the trial court to base the fee award upon
actual time expended on the case, as long as such fees are reasonably incurred
– both from the standpoint of time spent and the amount charged.” (Robertson v. Fleetwood Travel Trailers of California,
Inc. (2006) 144 Cal.App.4th 785, 817) The “prevailing
party has the burden of showing that the fees incurred were reasonably
necessary to the conduct of the litigation, and were reasonable in amount.” (Id.
at 817-818.) “The amount of an attorney fee to be awarded is a matter
within the sound discretion of the trial court.” (Id.
at 822.)
 
IV.          
DISCUSSION
 
Plaintiff
seeks to recover $30,194.80 in attorneys’ fees and costs. (Motion p. 2.) This
includes $28,784.50 for 72.2 hours of billed attorneys’ fees and costs totaling
$1,410.30. (Motion p. 2; Saeedian Declaration Ex. 1 pdf p. 18.) 
 

Service

 
Defendants
argue Plaintiff did not serve Defendants with the Motion at Defendants’
counsel’s correct service address. (Opposition p. 6.) Defendants filed an ex
parte application to continue the hearing, but subsequently withdrew the
application. Regardless, this court continued the hearing from January 2, 2025,
to January 9, 2025. (01/02/25 Minute Order.)
 

Hourly Rate

 
Defendants
argue Plaintiff’s counsel’s hourly rates are excessive and “should be reduced
to what is consistent with the ‘2023 Real Rate Report: The Industry’s Leading
Analysis of Law Firm Rates, Trends, and Practices.’” (Opposition p. 13.)
 
In
the reply, Plaintiff argues “Defendant has intentionally searched for the
lowest rates it can, does not state those are for Los Angeles, does not state
the rates represent contingency work, and does not explain how those rates
reflect the skill level of any attorney in any possible way.” (Reply p. 9.)
 
“In
determining hourly rates, the court must look to the ‘prevailing market rates
in the relevant community. [Citation] The rates of comparable attorneys in the
forum district are usually used. [Citation] In making its calculation, the
court should also consider the experience, skill, and reputation of the
attorney requesting fees. [Citation] The court may rely on its own knowledge
and familiarity with the legal market in setting a reasonable hourly rate.
[Citation] ‘Affidavits of the plaintiffs’ attorney and other attorneys
regarding prevailing fees in the community, and rate determinations in other
cases, particularly those setting a rate for the plaintiffs’ attorney, are
satisfactory evidence of the prevailing market rate.’” (Heritage Pacific
Financial, LLC v. Monroy (2013) 215 Cal.App.4th 972, 1009.) 
 
Plaintiff
submits a declaration by Plaintiff’s counsel, Michael Saeedian. Saeedian
discusses the background and experience of the attorneys, law clerk, and
paralegal who billed on this case. (Saeedian Declaration ¶¶ 3-6.) Counsel
Michael Saaedian billed at $695.00 per hour, managing attorney Christopher
Urner billed at $525.00 per hour, attorney Jorge Acosta billed at $350.00 per
hour, and law clerk Evelyn Ghazarian billed at $250.00 per hour. (Saeedian
Declaration ¶ 12.) Saeedian states that “[t]he rates charged by my office in
this case are below the contingency rates reflected in the Laffey Matrix which
is a summary of rates charged by contingency attorneys.” (Saeedian Declaration
¶ 13.)
 
This
court finds that the hourly rates billed by Plaintiff’s counsel are reasonable.
(See Goglin
v. BMW of North America, LLC (2016) 4 Cal.App.5th 462, 464, 473-474
[concluding a trial court did not abuse its discretion in finding a $575 hourly
rate was appropriate in a Song-Beverly Consumer Warranty Act action.])¿ 
 

Hours

 
Defendants
argue that Plaintiff “seeks reimbursement for tasks that were never
completed, for example, Plaintiff’s counsel claims that on May 15,
2024, he drafted and served a meet and confer letter regarding dealership
discovery responses, which never occurred.” (Opposition p. 5, bolding and
underlining in original.)
 
In
response to Defendants’ argument that Plaintiff seeks fees for “legal tasks not
performed”, Plaintiff states “[t]he letter certainly exists, was drafted and
was served on Ms. Silver directly” and submits the letter as an exhibit. (Reply
p. 5.) Based on the exhibit, this court is satisfied Plaintiff drafted and sent
the meet and confer letter. (See Reply Ex. A.)
 
Defendants
also argue that “Plaintiff’s
counsel knew that Defendants were interested in settling this matter within two
weeks of being served with the Complaint, yet repeatedly elected to ignore
defense counsel’s emails and propound unnecessary discovery instead.”
(Opposition p. 8.) Defendants’
counsel submits a declaration stating that, two weeks after Defendants were
served with the complaint, Defendants’ counsel requested a call with
Plaintiff’s counsel to discuss “’coming to an early resolution’ in the case[.]”
(Silver Declaration ¶
2.) Plaintiff’s
counsel did not respond but “instead chos[e] to proceed with litigation by
serving needless discovery on Defendant BMW NA[.]” (Silver Declaration ¶ 3.) Defendants’
counsel stated they reached out to Plaintiff’s counsel about settlement on
November 21, 2023, December 12, 2023, and January 3, 2023, but “Plaintiff
ignored defense counsel’s attempts to resolve the matter yet again and instead
chose to proceed with serving depositions notices on February 21, 2024,
discovery requests to the dealership defendant, and further meet and confer
letters regarding Defendant’s discovery responses.” (Silver Declaration ¶¶
4-7.) On March 20, 2024, Defendants’ counsel attempted to speak with
Plaintiff’s counsel again about settlement but was unable to reach Plaintiff’s
counsel. (Silver Declaration ¶ 8.) Defendants’ counsel’s declaration states: 
 
It
is undisputed that Defendant took no depositions, conducted no vehicle
inspection, and then settled the matter easily without any kind of fight or
friction . . .  Plaintiff’s counsel
solely served one set of boilerplate discovery requests (Form interrogatories,
special interrogatories, requests for admission, and requests for production)
only to Defendant BMW NA, as used in most cases with defense counsel’s law
firm. Plaintiff then served a second set of only Special interrogatories and
requests for production only to BMW NA. No depositions were taken, no vehicle
inspections were conducted, and very little discussions took place given that
Plaintiff and his counsel chose to sit on their hands throughout the entire
year and ignore defense counsel’s emails . . . Other than appearing for a case
management conference and serving boilerplate discovery requests and motions,
this matter was never actively litigated[.]” 
 
(Silver
Declaration ¶¶ 12-13.)
 
Finally,
Defendants’ counsel states that: “The subject vehicle was not eligible for a
buyback under Song Beverly at the time the lawsuit was filed. It was not until
the final repair visit one year ago, that the subject vehicle became eligible
for a repurchase. Shortly after Defendants became aware of their duty to
buyback the subject vehicle, they communicated the offer.” (Silver Declaration
¶ 14.)
 
In
the reply, Plaintiff argues this court cannot reduce or eliminate the
attorneys’ fees award solely because Defendants wanted to informally discuss
settling the case. (Reply pp. 3-4.) Plaintiff states that Defendants’ April 30,
2024, offer was for the statutory repurchase price plus $7,500 in fees and
costs. (Reply p. 2.)  Plaintiff’s
counsel’s declaration also states that the “firm did not have any direct
authority to accept or deny a settlement offer” and “[i]t is very rare that a
client will try to give us specific ‘blanket’ authority to accept or reject any
offer of settlement and because this can easily result in a misunderstanding,
we do not accept such authority. Each offer of settlement is handled with
limited authority as to that time period only and for a specific amount of
money.” (Saeedian Declaration ¶ 3.)
 
Plaintiff
cites Reck v. FCA US LLC (2021) 64 Cal.App.5th 682, 687, which states “it
is an error of law for the trial court to categorically deny or reduce an
attorney fee award on the basis of a plaintiff's failure to settle when the
ultimate recovery exceeds the Code of Civil Procedure section 998 settlement
offer.” (Reply p. 3.) Plaintiff argues “this rule applies with even more force
in this case where BMW NA LLC did not make any Section 998 offer and in fact,
admits that it only wanted to ‘discuss settlement for months.’” (Reply p. 3.)  Plaintiff also cites Greene v. Dillingham
Construction, N.A., Inc. (2002) 101 Cal.App.4th 418, 425-426, where the
Court of Appeal stated, “to reduce [a party’s] request for fees simply because
he rejected an informal settlement offer would be inconsistent with the
incentives provided in the [California Fair Employment and Housing Act] to
prosecute discrimination claims.” (Reply p. 4.)
 
Based
on the authority cited above, this court cannot categorically reduce or deny
the attorneys’ fees award solely because Plaintiff rejected an informal
settlement offer.
 
Defendants
also argue Plaintiff billed attorneys for clerical and/or administrative tasks.
(Opposition p. 9.) And Defendants argue that “the billable hours sought in
Plaintiff’s Fee Motion are clearly unreasonable and manifestly inflated” or
“should have been handled by a paralegal or legal support staff member.”
(Opposition p. 11.) Finally, Defendants argue that “the billable hours sought
in Plaintiff’s Fee Motion are clearly unreasonable and manifestly inflated.”
(Motion p. 11.)
 
The
billed amounts here include a series of small entries that, when considered
together, are excessive. (Saeedian Declaration Ex. 1.) Plaintiff’s counsel
billed 0.1 hours to “Review
driver's license from Client”,
0.2 hours for “Receipt
and review of Conformed Summons, Complaint, Civil Case Cover Sheet and
additional forms and compile documents for Service of Process”, 0.2 hours to
“Review Notice of CMC from Court; calculate CMC deadlines and update file re
same.”, 0.2 hours to “Review email from Client re service records and vehicle
videos”, 0.2 hours to “Analyze additional service records from Client; draft
notes and include to file”, 0.2 hours to “Access court docket re case status,
download ROA and update file re same”, 0.2 hours to “Receipt of POS of Summons
for BMW NA from Process Server”, 0.2 hours for “Receipt of POS of Summons for
Mini at Universal City from Process Server”, “0.1 hours for “Receipt and review
Notice of Case Reassignment from Court”, and 0.2 hours to “Review email from
Client re vehicle registration and service record.” (Saeedian Declaration Ex. 1.) This court finds that
these tasks were excessively billed and reduces the total billed amount to 0.9
hours.
 
Plaintiff’s
counsel also billed 0.4 hours to “Analyze vehicle repair history report and
update file”, 2.2 hours to “Draft Repair Chronology”, 0.7 hours for
“Communication with Client re: service history and revise repair chronology re
same”, 0.2 hours to “Revise repair chronology”, and 0.4 hours to “Revise Repair
Chronology.” (Saeedian
Declaration Ex. 1.) Plaintiff’s
counsel’s firm purportedly specializes in lemon law actions, and it is
excessive for a firm specializing in lemon law cases to spend 3.9 hours
drafting and revising the repair chronology for this case. (See Saeedian
Declaration ¶ 2.) Thus, this court reduces the billed amount to 1 hour.
 
Plaintiff’s
counsel also billed, or anticipates billing, 10.2 hours related to this Motion.
This court finds that billing 10.2 hours for this Motion is excessive and reduces
the billed amount to 5.1 hours.
 

Pre-Litigation Fees

 
Defendants
argue “Plaintiff is not entitled to fees incurred prior to the commencement of
an action.” (Opposition p. 12.) Defendants cite Civil Code section 1794,
subdivision (d), which states that buyers can recover attorneys’ fees “in
connection with the commencement and prosecution of such action.” Thus, section
1794, subdivision (d) explicitly states a buyer may recover attorneys’ fees
incurred “in connection with the commencement . . . of such action.” (Emphasis
added.) Defendants cite no other authority for the proposition that the
attorneys’ fee award here cannot include fees incurred prior to drafting and
filing the complaint. (See Opposition p. 12.) Accordingly, this court will not
reduce the fee award because some of the fees were incurred before Plaintiff
filed the complaint.
 
V.             
CONCLUSION
 
For the foregoing reasons, this court grants
Plaintiff $25,331.75 in attorneys’ fees. This court also grants Plaintiff $1,410.30
in costs. In total, Defendant BMW of North America, LLC is ordered to pay
Plaintiff $26,742.05 within thirty (30) days’ notice of this court’s order. (Defendant BMW of North America, LLC, is
responsible for paying the attorneys’ fees. The Notice
of Motion mentions an order entering judgment “against Defendants.” (Notice of
Motion p. 1.))

 
 
 
Dated:              January 9, 2025                        _______­­­­­­­­­­___________________________                                                                                                                              Hon.
Eric Harmon
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court