 Case Number:  19STCV46099    Hearing Date:   October 30, 2023    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


October
  30, 2023




CASE NUMBER:


19STCV46099




MOTIONS:  


Motion
  for Summary Judgment




MOVING PARTY:


Defendant Yosef Y. Nasseri, M.D.




OPPOSING PARTY:


None



 
MOVING PAPERS
 
1.      Defendant Yosef Y. Nasseri, M.D.’s Notice of Motion and Motion for Summary
Judgment; Memorandum of Points and Authorities; Declaration of Yosef Y.
Nasseri; Declaration of David J. Masutani
2.      Separate Statement of Undisputed Facts
3.      Declaration of Keith Beiermeisteer, M.D.
4.      Notice of Lodging of Exhibits
 
OPPOSITION PAPERS
1.      None filed.
 
REPLY PAPERS 
 
BACKGROUND
 
            On December 23, 2019, Plaintiff Fred Kordlar
(Plaintiff) filed a complaint against Cedar’s Sinai Medical Center, Yosef T.
Nasseri, M.D., and Does 1 to 100 for medical malpractice. The operative first
amended complaint (FAC) was filed on February 24, 2020 and similarly alleged a
single cause of action for medical malpractice. Plaintiff alleges that
he underwent “bowel resection and external ostomy in August 2017 at
Cedars-Sinai Medical Center in Los Angeles, California. Defendants were
negligent in performing the surgery and subsequent medical care, falling below
the standard of care in the community.” (FAC, attach. 1.) 
 
Defendant Yosef T. Nasseri
(Defendant) now moves for summary judgment arguing that the action is
barred by the statute of limitations.  
 
LEGAL
STANDARD
 
“[T]he party moving for summary judgment bears the burden of persuasion
that there is no triable issue of material fact and that he is entitled to
judgment as a matter of law[.] There is a triable issue of material fact if,
and only if, the evidence would allow a reasonable trier of fact to find the
underlying fact in favor of the party opposing the motion in accordance with
the applicable standard of proof.” (Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co.
(2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 850.)  “[T]he party moving for summary judgment
bears an initial burden of production to make a prima facie showing of the
nonexistence of any triable issue of material fact; if he carries his burden of
production, he causes a shift, and the opposing party is then subjected to a burden of production of his own to make a prima facie
showing of the existence of a triable issue of material fact.” (Ibid.;
Smith v. Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. (2005) 135 Cal.App.4th 1463, 1474
[summary judgment standards held by Aguilar apply to summary
adjudication motions].)  Further, in line
with Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co., “[o]n a motion for summary
adjudication, the trial court has no discretion to exercise.  If a triable issue of material fact exists as
to the challenged causes of action, the motion must be denied. If there is no triable
issue of fact, the motion must be granted.” (Fisherman's Wharf Bay Cruise
Corp. v. Superior Court (2003) 114 Cal.App.4th 309, 320.)
 
“On a summary judgment motion, the
court must therefore consider what inferences favoring the opposing party a
factfinder could reasonably draw from the evidence. While viewing the evidence
in this manner, the court must bear in mind that its primary function is to
identify issues rather than to determine issues.  Only when the inferences are indisputable may
the court decide the issues as a matter of law. If the evidence is in conflict,
the factual issues must be resolved by trial.” (Binder v. Aetna Life Ins. Co.
(1999) 75 Cal.App.4th 832, 839 [cleaned up].) 
Further, “the trial court may not weigh the evidence in the manner of a
factfinder to determine whose version is more likely true.  Nor may the trial court grant summary
judgment based on the court's evaluation of credibility.” (Id. at p. 840
[cleaned up]; see also Weiss v. People ex rel. Department of Transportation
(2020) 9 Cal.5th 840, 864 [“Courts deciding motions for summary judgment or
summary adjudication may not weigh the evidence but must instead view it in the
light most favorable to the opposing party and draw all reasonable inferences
in favor of that party”].)  
 
JUDICIAL NOTICE
 
Defendant requests judicial notice
of certain court documents in the Declaration of David J. Masutani. This was
improper since the request was not filed as a separate document. (Cal. Rules
Court, rule 3.1350 (c)(5).) 
 
Nevertheless, “[t]he court may in
its discretion take judicial notice of any court record in the United States.
(Evid. Code § 451.) This includes any orders, findings of facts and conclusions
of law, and judgments within court records. [Citations.] However, while courts
are free to take judicial notice of the existence of each document in a court
file, including the truth of results reached, they may not take judicial notice
of the truth of hearsay statements in decisions and court files.” (Kilroy v. State of California (2004) 119 Cal.App.4th 140,
145.) “Evidence of a statement is not made inadmissible by the hearsay rule
when offered against the declarant in an action to which he is a party in
either his individual or representative capacity, regardless of whether the
statement was made in his individual or representative capacity.” (Evid. Code §
1220.) 
 
Therefore, the Court takes judicial
notice of Plaintiff’s First Amended Complaint (Exh. A); CSMC’s Separate
Statement of Undisputed Material Facts (Exh. E); Notice of Lodging (Exh. F); the
Notice of Ruling for Summary Judgment filed on October 18, 2021 (Exh. H); and
Plaintiff’s initial Complaint filed on December 23, 2019 (Exh. O) as part of
the Court’s record. (Evid. Code § 452(d)(1).) 
 
DISCUSSION
 
“Civil Code section 1714, subdivision (a) establishes
the general duty of each person to exercise, in his or her activities,
reasonable care for the safety of others. 
When applied to medical professionals, this duty of care imposes a duty
to use such skill, prudence and diligence as other members of his profession
commonly possess and exercise.”  (Flores
v. Liu (2021) 60 Cal.App.5th 278, 290 [cleaned up].)  To prevail on a claim for negligence against
a medical professional, a plaintiff must demonstrate that: (1) a medical
professional had a duty to use the skill, prudence and diligence that members
of the profession commonly possess and exercise; (2) breach of that duty; (3)
an injury that resulted from the breach of that duty; and (4) actual loss or
damage resulting from the breach of that duty. 
(Banerian v. O’Malley (1974) 42 Cal.App.3d 604, 612.)
 
Per Code of Civil Procedure section
340.5, “[i]n an action for injury or death against a health care provider based
upon such person's alleged professional negligence, the time for the
commencement of action shall be three years after the date of injury or one
year after the plaintiff discovers, or through the use of reasonable diligence
should have discovered, the injury, whichever occurs first.” (Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 340.5.) The statute of limitations begins to run when the plaintiff has
notice or information to put a reasonable person on inquiry. (Jolly v. Eli Lilly & Co. (1988) 44 Cal.3d 1103, 1110–11.)  Under Code of Civil Procedure section
364, “No action based upon the health care provider's professional negligence
may be commenced unless the defendant has been given at least 90 days' prior
notice of the intention to commence the action.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 364, subd.
(a).) “If the notice is served within 90 days of the expiration of the
applicable statute of limitations, the time for the commencement of the action
shall be extended 90 days from the service of the notice.” (Code Civ. Proc., §
364, subd. (d).)
 
Defendant sets forth the following
facts: 
 
-         
On August 28, 2017, Dr. Nasseri performed procedures on
plaintiff consisting of an exploratory laparotomy, sigmoid colon resection,
creation of an end colostomy, abdominal wash, removal of the colonic stent, and
flexible sigmoidoscopy. Pathology included segment of colon with
diverticulosis, luminal narrowing, and melanosis coli- one benign lymph node.
Distal margin of sigmoid colon resection with melanosis coli. Resected specimen
had segment of colon with diverticulosis, melanosis coli and hemorrhage, separate
fragment of adipose tissue, colonic stent removal. (UMF 4.) 
-         
On December 4, 2017, Dr. Nasseri performed surgery on
plaintiff at CSMC which included: 1. Laparoscopic surgery converted to open
procedure for lysis of adhesions lasting more than 2 and 2 and ½ hours., low
anterior resection, closure of colostomy, splenic flexure mobilization,
flexible sigmoidoscopy. No enterotomies were observed during the surgery and no
complications were noted. (UMF 5.)
-         
Around this time, Dr. Jamil told him that the
Octreotide damaged his gallbladder, he had taken too much of it and his doctor
needed to stop it. He said Dr. Nasseri was negligent in that the Octreotide
never should have been prescribed to him – that was an error. (UMF 10.)
-         
Plaintiff stopped seeing Dr. Nasseri after August 3,
2018. (UMF 13.)
-         
On August 16, 2018, Dr. Bilchik told plaintiff that his
fistula was caused by a perforation in his intestines that his other physicians
did not close in the prior two surgeries. (UMF 14.)
-         
Dr. Bilchik also told plaintiff that Dr. Nasseri was
negligent in that plaintiff never needed to undergo the first colon surgery.
(UMF 15.) 
-         
On December 23, 2019, plaintiff filed his initial
medical malpractice complaint against CSMC and Dr. Nasseri, alleging that in
August 2017, Defendants were negligent in performing a bowel resection and
external ostomy surgery on plaintiff at CSMC, and in their provision of
subsequent medical care. Dr. Nasseri was never served a Notice of Intent to Sue
letter pursuant to C.C.P. §364, nor was he ever served with the initial
complaint. (UMF 16.) 
-         
Plaintiff asserts that Dr. Nasseri committed
professional negligence from August of 2017 to July 2018. (UMF 17.) 
 
The Court finds that Defendant has met his burden to show that
Plaintiff’s claim for professional negligence is time-barred. Defendant argues
that the limitations period commenced on August 16, 2018 when Plaintiff was
first made aware by his physician, Dr. Bilchek, that his alleged injuries may
have been caused by the prior acts of other health care providers including
Defendant. Therefore, Defendant argues that Plaintiff had until August 16, 2019
to file his complaint for professional negligence. However, Plaintiff did not
file his complaint until December 23, 2019.
 
The burden shifts to Plaintiff. Plaintiff has not filed an
opposition to the motion for summary judgment. As such, Plaintiff has not met
his burden to show the existence of a triable issue of fact regarding the
timeliness of his complaint. Accordingly, the Court grants the motion for
summary judgment.[1]
 
CONCLUSION AND
ORDER
 
            Based on the foregoing, Defendant Yosef
Y. Nasseri, M.D.’s Motion for Summary Judgment is GRANTED. Defendant shall file
a proposed judgment within 10 days.
 
            Defendant shall
provide notice of this ruling and file a proof of service of such.
 


