 Case Number:  BC722083    Hearing Date:   October 30, 2023    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 



DEPARTMENT


32




HEARING DATE


October 30, 2023




CASE NUMBER


BC722083




MOTION 


Motion to Set Aside Dismissal




MOVING PARTY


Plaintiffs Victor Davila, Mario Davila, David Davila,
  Grecia P. Davila, Estate of Mario A. Davila, Estate of Maribel Davila, and
  Estate of Oscar Davila




OPPOSING PARTY


None



 
MOTION
 
              Plaintiffs
move to set aside the Court’s order of February 2, 2022, in which the Court
dismissed Plaintiffs’ complaint for failure to file default judgment. Plaintiffs
bring this motion pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 473(d). No
opposition has been filed.
 
ANALYSIS
 
Code of Civil Procedure § 473,
subdivision (d), provides: “The court may, upon motion of the injured party, or
its own motion, correct clerical mistakes in its judgment or orders as entered,
so as to conform to the judgment or order directed, and may, on motion of
either party after notice to the other party, set aside any void judgment or
order.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 473, subd. (d).)
 
 
Section 473(d) “allows a trial
court to set aside a void judgment without mentioning a time limit.” (Johnson
v. E-Z Ins. Brokerage, Inc. (2009) 175 Cal.App.4th 86, 98.) “A court can
lack fundamental authority over the subject matter, question presented, or
party, making its judgment void, or it can merely act in excess of its
jurisdiction or defined power, rendering the judgment voidable.” (Id.
[citation omitted].) “A judgment is void if the court lacked jurisdiction over
the subject matter of the parties, for example, if the defendant was not
validly served with summons. [Citation omitted.] In contrast, a judgment is
valid but voidable if it is the result of the court’s failure to follow proper
procedure.” (Id.) In Johnson, the court found that the trial
court had fundamental jurisdiction over the parties and the subject matter and
concluded that the petitioner could not challenge the default and default
judgment under section 473(d). (Id. at 99.) The court further concluded
that the petitioner, having waited 12 years, was untimely in any motion to set
aside brought under section 473(b).
 
The party or the legal
representative must seek such relief “within a reasonable time, in no case
exceeding six months, after the judgment, dismissal, order, or proceeding was
taken.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 473, subd. (b); see Rappleyea v. Campbell (1994) 8 Cal.4th 975, 980 [“because more than
six months had elapsed from the entry of default, and hence relief under
section 473 was unavailable”]; People v.
The North River Ins. Co. (2011) 200 Cal.App.4th 712, 721 [motion for relief
under section 473 must be brought “within a reasonable time, in no case
exceeding six months”]).  “The six-month
limit is mandatory; a court has no authority to grant relief under section 473,
subdivision (b), unless an application is made within the six-month period.”  (Arambula
v. Union Carbide Corp. (2005) 128 Cal.App.4th 333, 340 [citations omitted].)  
 
“The distinction between a
clerical error and a judicial error does not depend so much on the person
making it as it does on whether it was the deliberate result of judicial
reasoning and determination.” (Pettigrew v. Grand Rent-A-Car (1984) 154
Cal.App.3d 204, 209.) “A clerical error in a judgment, as regards correction,
includes one made by the court which cannot reasonably be attributed to
exercise of judicial consideration or discretion.” (Id. at 209-10
[citation and quotations omitted].) “Clerical error is to be distinguished from
judicial error which cannot be corrected by amendment. The distinction between
clerical error and judicial error is whether the error was made in rendering
the judgment, or in recording the judgment rendered. Any attempt by a court,
under the guise of correcting clerical error, to revise its deliberately
exercised judicial discretion is not permitted.” (Id. [citation and
quotations omitted].)
 
Here,
Plaintiffs argue that the Court erred in dismissing the case pursuant to
California Rule of Court 3.740. However, the Court had fundamental jurisdiction
over the subject matter and over Plaintiffs. Plaintiffs argue that the judgment
is the result of the Court’s failure to follow proper procedure. Plaintiffs
have not demonstrated that the judgment was void, rather than voidable.
Moreover, the error at issue does not appear to have been a clerical mistake in
the judgment, but a ruling by the Court in the exercise of judgment. The minute
order dated October 29, 2021 states that “Counsel also represents to the Court,
a Default Judgment packet will be filed as to Edgar Verduzco
(Defendant). An Order to Show Cause Re: Dismissal/ Failure to File
Default Judgment Pursuant to CRC 3.740 is scheduled for 02/02/2022 at
8:30 AM in Department 32 at Spring Street Courthouse. (Minute Order Dated
10/29/21 [emphasis added].)
 
Accordingly,
Plaintiffs have not established that section 473(d) applies.
 
CONCLUSION AND ORDER
            
Accordingly, the Court denies
Plaintiffs’ motion to set aside dismissal.
 
Plaintiffs are ordered to
provide notice of this Order and file proof of service of such.  
 
 