 Case Number:  22STCV29612    Hearing Date:   September 24, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE
NOTE:   Parties are encouraged to meet and confer concerning this
tentative ruling to determine if a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that
party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number,
date and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable),
and the identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the
Court does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on this
tentative ruling and there are no appearances at the hearing, the Court may
place the motion off calendar or adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the
Court.  If all parties do not submit on this tentative ruling, they should
arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the Court has posted/issued a tentative
ruling, the Court has the inherent authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the
subject motion and adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.   
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 



DEPARTMENT


32




HEARING DATE


September 24, 2024




CASE NUMBER


22STCV29612




MOTION


Motion for Summary Judgment, or in the alternative, Motion
  for Summary Adjudication




MOVING PARTY


Defendants City of Los Angeles, Los Angeles Police
  Department, Renzo Garibaldi, William Coreas, Roberto Sanchez, Garabed
  Chichoyan, and Andreas An




OPPOSING PARTY


None 



 
 
MOVING PAPERS:
 

Notice of Motion for
     Summary Judgment, or in the Alternative Summary Adjudication
Separate Statement of Undisputed
     Material Facts
Request for Judicial
     Notice
Declaration of Andreas An
Declaration of Katerina
     Unzicker
Declaration of Owen Berger
Declaration of Garabed
     Chichoyan
Declaration of William
     Coreas
Declaration of Maria Silva
Declaration of Gina Lee 
Declaration of Mary Hodges
Notice of Errata of
     Mislabeled Exhibits 

 
OPPOSITION
PAPERS:
 

None.

 
REPLY
PAPERS: 
 

None.

 
BACKGROUND
 
On September 12, 2022, Plaintiffs Floridalma Ajanel and Raul Baten (individually
and as successor in interest to the estate of Decedent Dioncio Baten Ajanel),
and Santiago Ajanel (collectively, “Plaintiffs”) filed a complaint for
negligence and wrongful death for the death of Decedent Dionicio Ajanel
(“Decedent”). 
 
Plaintiffs allege that on September 2, 2021, Defendants Renzo
Garibaldi, William Coreas, Roberto Sanchez, Garabed Chichoyan, and Andreas An,
were operating a vehicle and acting within the scope of employment with Los
Angeles Police Department and City of Los Angeles. (Complaint, 4.) Plaintiffs
also allege that Defendants Los Angeles Police Department (“LAPD”) and City of
Los Angeles owned and entrusted the vehicles.
 
On July 25, 2023, Plaintiffs filed an amendment to the complaint,
substituting Sung Joo Ko as Doe 1. On August 23, 2023, Plaintiffs filed an
amendment to the complaint, substituting Jeffrey Howard as Doe 2 and Keith
Sparrow as Doe 3. 
 
Defendants City of Los Angeles, Los Angeles Police Department, Renzo
Garibaldi, William Coreas, Roberto Sanchez, Garabed Chichoyan, and Andreas An (“Defendants”)
now move for summary judgment, or alternatively, summary adjudication, arguing
that (1) Plaintiffs have failed to set forth a statutory basis for liability,
(2) the LAPD officers are immune under Vehicle Code section 17004, and (3) City
of Los Angeles and Los Angeles Police Department is immune under Vehicle Code
section 17004.7. 
 
No opposition has been filed. 
 
 
LEGAL STANDARD 
 
“A party may move for summary adjudication as to one or
more causes of action within an action, one or more affirmative defenses, one
or more claims for damages, or one or more issues of duty, if the party
contends that the cause of action has no merit, that there is no affirmative
defense to the cause of action, that there is no merit to an affirmative
defense as to any cause of action, that there is no merit to a claim for
damages, as specified in Section 3294 of the Civil Code, or that one or more defendants
either owed or did not owe a duty to the plaintiff or plaintiffs.” (Code Civ.
Proc., § 437c, subd. (f)(1).) “A motion for summary adjudication shall be
granted only if it completely disposes of a cause of action, an affirmative
defense, a claim for damages, or an issue of duty.” (Id.) 
 
The function of a motion for
summary judgment or adjudication is to allow a determination as to whether an
opposing party cannot show evidentiary support for a pleading or claim and to
enable an order of summary dismissal without the need for trial. (Aguilar v.
Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 843.) “[T]he party
moving for summary judgment bears an initial burden of production to make a prima facie showing of the nonexistence of any triable issue of
material fact; if he carries his burden of production, he causes a shift, and
the opposing party is then subjected to a burden of production of his own to
make a prima facie showing of the existence of a triable issue of material
fact.” (Ibid.; Smith v. Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. (2005) 135
Cal.App.4th 1463, 1474 [summary judgment standards held by Aguilar apply
to summary adjudication motions].)  Further, in line with Aguilar v.
Atlantic Richfield Company, “[o]n a motion for summary adjudication, the
trial court has no discretion to exercise.  If a triable issue of material
fact exists as to the challenged causes of action, the motion must be denied.
If there is no triable issue of fact, the motion must be granted.” (Fisherman's
Wharf Bay Cruise Corp. v. Superior Court (2003) 114 Cal.App.4th 309, 320.) 
 
“On a summary judgment motion, the court must therefore
consider what inferences favoring the opposing party a factfinder could
reasonably draw from the evidence. While viewing the evidence in this manner,
the court must bear in mind that its primary function is to identify issues
rather than to determine issues.  Only when the inferences are
indisputable may the court decide the issues as a matter of law. If the
evidence is in conflict, the factual issues must be resolved by trial.” (Binder
v. Aetna Life Ins. Co. (1999) 75 Cal.App.4th 832, 839 [cleaned up].) 
Further, “the trial court may not weigh the evidence in the manner of a
factfinder to determine whose version is more likely true.  Nor may the
trial court grant summary judgment based
on the court's evaluation of credibility.” (Id. at p. 840 [cleaned up];
see also Weiss v. People ex rel. Department of Transportation (2020) 9
Cal.5th 840, 864 [“Courts deciding motions for summary judgment or summary
adjudication may not weigh the evidence but must instead view it in the light
most favorable to the opposing party and draw all reasonable inferences in
favor of that party”].) 
 
 
JUDICIAL
NOTICE
 
            The Court denies Defendants’
request for judicial notice but will consider the evidence therein in the
absence of any evidentiary objection by Plaintiffs. 
 
DISCUSSION
 

Negligence and Wrongful Death 

 
“The elements of a negligence cause of action are the existence of a
legal duty of care, breach of that duty, and proximate cause resulting in
injury.” (Castellon v. U.S. Bancorp (2013) 220 Cal.App.4th 994, 998 [citation
omitted].) Under Code of Civil Procedure section 377.60, a decedent’s surviving
spouse and children may bring a cause of action for the death of a person
caused by the wrongful act or neglect of another. 
 
Government Code section 815 provides that “[a] public entity is not
liable for an injury, whether such injury arises out of an act or omission of
the public entity or a public employee or any other person” except as provided
by statute. (Gov. Code, § 815, subd. (a); see Hoff v. Vacaville Unified
School Dist. (1998) 19 Cal.4th 925, 932.) “[D]irect tort liability of
public entities must be based on a specific statute declaring them to be
liable, or at least creating some specific duty of care, and not on the general
tort provisions of Civil Code section 1714. Otherwise, the general rule of
immunity for public entities would be largely eroded by the routine application
of general tort principles.” (Eastburn v. Regional Fire Protection Authority
(2003) 31 Cal.4th 1175, 1183.) Consequently, “public
entities may be liable only if a statute declares them to be liable.”  (Tuthill
v. City of San Buenaventura (2014) 223 Cal.App.4th 1081, 1088 [emphasis in
the original].) It has been recognized that it is impermissible to sue a public
entity for common law negligence. (Torres v. Department of Corrections and
Rehabilitation (2013) 217 Cal.App.4th 844, 850.)  
 
In general, “under the Tort Claims Act,
public employees are liable for injuries caused by their acts and omissions to
the same extent as private persons. (Gov. Code, § 820, subd. (a).) Vicarious
liability is a primary basis for liability on the part of a public entity, and
flows from the responsibility of such an entity for the acts of its employees
under the principle of respondeat superior. [Citations.] As the Act provides, ‘[a]
public entity is liable for injury proximately caused by an act or omission of
an employee of the public entity within the scope of his employment if the act
or omission would ... have given rise to a cause of action against that
employee,’ unless ‘the employee is immune from liability.’ (Gov. Code, § 815.2,
subds.(a), (b).)” (Zelig v. County of Los Angeles (2002) 27
Cal.4th 1112, 1128.)
 
            As an initial matter, Defendants
first argue that City of Los Angeles and Los Angeles Police Department cannot
be liable since Plaintiffs failed to identify a statutory basis. The Court, on
its own, takes judicial notice that City of Los Angeles and Los Angeles Police
Department are public entities as defined by the California Government Code.
(Gov. Code § 811.2 [“’Public entity includes . . . a county city, district,
public authority, public agency, and any other political subdivision or public
corporation in the State.”]. 
 
            Reviewing the complaint, Plaintiffs
have set forth no statutory basis for liability. Therefore, City of Los Angeles
and Los Angeles Police Department meet their initial burden. Since Plaintiffs
have not filed an opposition, they fail to meet their burden. 
 
            Next, Defendants argue the LAPD
officers are immune under Vehicle Code section 17004.
 

Immunity Under Vehicle Code section 17004

 
 
California Vehicle Code section 17004 provides: “[a] public employee
is not liable for civil damages on account of personal injury to or death of
any person or damage to property resulting from the operation, in the line of
duty, of an authorized emergency vehicle while responding to an emergency call
or when in the immediate pursuit of an actual or suspected violator of the law,
or when responding to but not upon returning from a fire alarm or other
emergency call.”
 
            “[S]ection 17004 does not by its
terms require the immediate pursuit to involve an actual ‘emergency’ situation,
as opposed to a mere ‘routine traffic stop’ to issue a citation.” (Cruz v.
Briseno (2000) 22 Cal.4th 568, 572.) Additionally, the section “contains no
provision for loss of immunity due to the officer's negligent or intentional
conduct during the pursuit, including his supposedly negligent failure to
activate lights or sirens.” (Id.)
 
            Here, Defendants set forth the
following facts about the Defendant LAPD officers:
 
-       
On September 2, 2021, at the time of the subject
Incident, Renzo Garibaldi, William Coreas, Roberto Sanchez, Garabed Chichoyan
and Andreas An were police officers who were operating marked black and white
LAPD motor vehicles and acting within the course and scope of their employment
with the LAPD. (UMF 8.) 
-       
Officers Garibaldi, Coreas, Sanchez, Chichoyan and An
were assigned to Hollywood Division of the LAPD, and were part of the
Operations West Bureau Human Trafficking Task Force. (UMF 9.) 
-       
Officers Chichoyan and Sanchez were part of the
uniformed chase unit during the trick operation and assigned to Unit 6V53, in a
marked black and white LAPD vehicle equipped with a siren, forward-facing red
light and emergency bar. (UMF 10.) 
-       
Officers Coreas and Garibaldi were part of the
uniformed chase units during the trick operation and assigned to Unit 6V51, in
a marked black and white LAPD vehicle equipped with a siren, forward-facing red
light and emergency bar. (UMF 11.)
-       
Sergeant An was providing supervisory oversight of the
uniformed chase units during a trick operation, was in full uniform and
assigned to Unit 6V50, driving a marked black and white LAPD hybrid vehicle
equipped with a siren and forward-facing red light. (UMF 12.) 
-       
Officers Garibaldi, Coreas, Sanchez, Chichoyan and An
were informed that a vehicle suspected of human trafficking of a minor had been
identified, and was described as a black Mercedes Benz, License Plate
8MGG112.  Chase unit officers were
directed to conduct a vehicle stop on the suspected vehicle. (UMF 13.)
-       
To prevent the suspect vehicle from leaving the area
where the trick operation was occurring, Sergeant An attempted to conduct a
traffic stop on the suspected human trafficking vehicle driven by Keith Sparrow
and also occupied by Julian Sparrow. (UMF 14.) 
-       
Officers Chichoyan and Sanchez drove to Sergeant An’s
location, stopped their vehicle behind Sergeant An’s vehicle and then exited
their vehicle and began to walk over to Sergeant An to assist him with the
traffic stop. (UMF 17.) 
-       
Suddenly and without warning, the suspect vehicle drove
off at a high rate of speed and Sergeant An pursued the suspect vehicle, whose
occupant was wanted for human trafficking, to prevent likelihood of escape.
(UMF 18.) 
-       
Officers Coreas and Garibaldi followed behind Sergeant
An and broadcast they were in pursuit, while Officers Chichoyan and Sanchez
followed behind Officers Coreas and Garibaldi. (UMF 19.) 
-       
The pursuit of the suspect vehicle continued southbound
on Saint Andrews Place to westbound on Beverly Boulevard, southbound on
Gramercy Place to westbound on 2nd Street, to southbound on Wilton Place.  As the suspect vehicle sped towards 5th
Street, it entered the intersection of Wilton Place and 6th Place where it
collided with a third-party vehicle which then caused a multivehicle collision
involving Dionicio Ajanel, who was later pronounced deceased at the scene of
the collision. (UMF 20.) 
 
Defendants have provided sufficient facts showing that Decedent’s death
resulted from the immediate pursuit of a suspected violator of the law, and
therefore, immunity under section 17004 applies. The burden now shifts to
Plaintiffs to establish a triable issue of fact. Since Plaintiffs have not
filed an opposition, they fail to meet their burden. 
 
Therefore, the motion for summary judgment as to the LAPD Officer
Defendants Renzo Garibaldi, William Coreas, Roberto Sanchez, Garabed Chichoyan,
and Andreas An, is granted. 
 
            Because the LAPD officers are
immune, Defendants City of Los Angeles and Los Angeles Police Department are immune
as well unless another statute says otherwise. (See Gov. Code, § 815.2, subd.
(b); Hernandez v. City of Pomona (2009) 46 Cal.4th 501, 519.)  One such statute that could foreclose immunity
under Government Code section 815.2 is Vehicle Code section 17001 which states:
“[a] public entity is liable for death or injury to person or property
proximately caused by a negligent or wrongful act or omission in the operation
of any motor vehicle by an employee of the public entity acting within the
scope of his employment.” Therefore, the Court will consider the argument that Defendants
City of Los Angeles and Los Angeles Police Department are immune under Vehicle
Code section 17004.7. 
 
 

Immunity Under Vehicle Code section 17004.7

 
 
Vehicle Code section 17004.7 states in
relevant part: 
 
 
“(b)(1) A public agency employing peace officers
that adopts and promulgates a written policy on, and provides regular and
periodic training on an annual basis for, vehicular pursuits complying with
subdivisions (c) and (d) is immune from liability for civil damages for
personal injury to or death of any person or damage to property resulting from
the collision of a vehicle being operated by an actual or suspected violator of
the law who is being, has been, or believes he or she is being or has been, pursued
in a motor vehicle by a peace officer employed by the public entity.
 
(2) Promulgation of the written policy under
paragraph (1) shall include, but is not limited to, a requirement that all
peace officers of the public agency certify in writing that they have received,
read, and understand the policy. The failure of an individual officer to sign a
certification shall not be used to impose liability on an individual officer or
a public entity.
 
(c) A policy for the safe conduct of motor
vehicle pursuits by peace officers shall meet all of the following minimum
standards:
 
(1) Determine under what circumstances to
initiate a pursuit. The policy shall define a “pursuit,” articulate the reasons
for which a pursuit is authorized, and identify the issues that should be
considered in reaching the decision to pursue. It should also address the
importance of protecting the public and balancing the known or reasonably
suspected offense, and the apparent need for immediate capture against the
risks to peace officers, innocent motorists, and others to protect the public.
(2) Determine the total number of law enforcement
vehicles authorized to participate in a pursuit. Establish the authorized
number of law enforcement units and supervisors who may be involved in a
pursuit, describe the responsibility of each authorized unit and the role of
each peace officer and supervisor, and specify if and when additional units are
authorized.
(3) Determine the communication procedures to be
followed during a pursuit. Specify pursuit coordination and control procedures
and determine assignment of communications responsibility by unit and
organizational entity.
(4) Determine the role of the supervisor in
managing and controlling a pursuit. Supervisory responsibility shall include
management and control of a pursuit, assessment of risk factors associated with
a pursuit, and when to terminate a pursuit.
(5) Determine driving tactics and the
circumstances under which the tactics may be appropriate.
(6) Determine authorized pursuit intervention
tactics. Pursuit intervention tactics include, but are not limited to,
blocking, ramming, boxing, and roadblock procedures. The policy shall specify
under what circumstances and conditions each approved tactic is authorized to
be used.
(7) Determine the factors to be considered by a
peace officer and supervisor in determining speeds throughout a pursuit.
Evaluation shall take into consideration public safety, peace officer safety,
and safety of the occupants in a fleeing vehicle.
(8) Determine the role of air support, where
available. Air support shall include coordinating the activities of resources
on the ground, reporting on the progress of a pursuit, and providing peace
officers and supervisors with information to evaluate whether or not to
continue the pursuit.
(9) Determine when to terminate or discontinue a
pursuit. Factors to be considered include, but are not limited to, all of the
following:
(A) Ongoing evaluation of risk to the public or
pursuing peace officer.
(B) The protection of the public, given the known
or reasonably suspected offense and apparent need for immediate capture against
the risks to the public and peace officers.
(C) Vehicular or pedestrian traffic safety and
volume.
(D) Weather conditions.
(E) Traffic conditions.
(F) Speeds.
(G) Availability of air support.
(H) Procedures when an offender is identified and
may be apprehended at a later time or when the location of the pursuit vehicle
is no longer known.
(10) Determine procedures for apprehending an
offender following a pursuit. Safety of the public and peace officers during
the law enforcement effort to capture an offender shall be an important factor.
(11) Determine effective coordination,
management, and control of interjurisdictional pursuits. The policy shall
include, but shall not be limited to, all of the following:
(A) Supervisory control and management of a
pursuit that enters another jurisdiction.
(B) Communications and notifications among the
agencies involved.
(C) Involvement in another jurisdiction's
pursuit.
(D) Roles and responsibilities of units and
coordination, management, and control at the termination of an
interjurisdictional pursuit.
(12) Reporting and postpursuit analysis as
required by Section 14602.1. Establish the level and procedures of postpursuit
analysis, review, and feedback. Establish procedures for written postpursuit
review and followup.
 
(d) “Regular and periodic training” under this
section means annual training that shall include, at a minimum, coverage of
each of the subjects and elements set forth in subdivision (c) and that shall
comply, at a minimum, with the training guidelines established pursuant to
Section 13519.8 of the Penal Code.
 
(e) The requirements of subdivision (c) represent
minimum policy standards and do not limit an agency from adopting additional
policy requirements. The requirements in subdivision (c) are consistent with
the 1995 California Law Enforcement Vehicle Pursuit Guidelines developed by the
Commission on Peace Officer Standards and Training pursuant to Section 13519.8
of the Penal Code that will assist agencies in the development of their pursuit
policies. Nothing in this section precludes the adoption of a policy that
limits or restricts pursuits.”
 
A determination of
whether a public agency has complied with subdivisions (c) and (d) is a
question of law for the court. (Veh. Code, § 17004.7, subd. (f).) 
 
            Here, Defendants set forth the
following relevant facts:
 
-       
The LAPD maintains the Manual of the Los Angeles Police
Department, which is a composite of current policies, procedures and
rules.  Pursuant to Volume 0/section 004,
all LAPD employees are directed to conform to the Manual rules and provisions.
(UMF 22.) 
-       
On June 26, 2007, after approval by the Board of Police
Commissioners, LAPD Chief of Police William Bratton issued Special Order 21,
which expressed the most recent version of the LAPD Vehicle Pursuit Policy.
(UMF 25.) 
-       
Special Order 21 directs all sworn personnel to
complete and sign the Pursuit Policy Attestation form, attached to Special
Order 21. (UMF 27.) 
-       
On September 7, 2018, Chief of Police Michael Moore
issued Special Order 17 which requires all sworn officers to complete the
Annual Vehicle Pursuit Policy Training and the Pursuit Policy Training
Attestation each year, and informs sworn officers that the Attestation is only
available electronically via the Learning Management System and must be
completed following completion of the online vehicle pursuit training program.
(UMF 29.) 
-       
The policy of the LAPD requires all of its sworn police
officers to certify in writing that they have received, read, and understand
the LAPD Vehicle Pursuit Policy. (UMF 30.) 
-       
The LAPD Vehicle Pursuit Policy in force on September
2, 2021, is attached as Exhibit D to the Berger Declaration. (UMF 31.) 
-       
The LAPD provides regular and periodic training on an
annual basis on its Vehicle Pursuit Policy, which is available to all LAPD
personnel through its e-learning portal, the Learning Management System
(“LMS”), and is published in the LAPD Policy Manual in Vol. 1/section 555, Vol.
3/ section 201, and Vol. 4/section 205. (UMF 32.) 
-       
All LAPD sworn officers are required to take the online
training program on LAPD’s Vehicle Pursuit Policy and Attestation on an annual
basis. (UMF 35.) 
-       
The online Vehicle Pursuit Policy training program
consists of informational slides, embedded video and competency questions.  The online training program is narrated, and
a participating officer cannot proceed to the next slide until either the
narration is complete, and/or the embedded video has been played, and/or the
competency questions have been answered correctly, and the officer is prompted
to proceed. (UMF 36.) 
 
The Court finds that Defendants have met their initial burden. (Berger
Decl., Exh. B.) The burden shifts to Plaintiffs. Since Plaintiffs have not
opposed, they fail to meet their burden.
 
Therefore, Defendants’ motion for summary judgment is granted. 
 
CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
 
            Based
on the foregoing, Defendants’ Motion
for Summary Judgment is GRANTED. Defendants shall file and serve a proposed
judgment within 10 days.
 
Moving Defendants shall provide notice of this ruling and file a proof
of service of such. 
 