  Case Number:  20STCV35050    Hearing Date:   September 24, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


September
  24, 2024




CASE NUMBER:


20STCV35050




MOTIONS:  


Request
  for Leave to Amend   




MOVING PARTY:


Cross-Complainant Cartage West, Inc.




OPPOSING PARTY:


Cross-Defendant
  Andy Frain Services, Inc. 



 
 
BACKGROUND
 
On
March 15, 2022, Plaintiff Michael Greenwood (“Plaintiff”) filed the operative
first amended complaint (“FAC”) asserting causes of action for assault,
battery, intentional infliction of emotional distress, negligence, and
negligent hiring and supervision. Plaintiff alleges he was performing his
duties as a security guard at a cargo facility at 18055 Harmon Ave. Carson,
California, when he was physically assaulted by Defendant Fermin Antonio
Mazariego Jr. (FAC ¶ 7, 10-11.) Plaintiff sued Defendant Cartage West, Inc.
(“Cartage”) for negligence and negligent hiring and supervision based on
Mazariego’s alleged actions and alleges it owned the premises where the
incident occurred (FAC ¶ 9). 
 
On
October 17, 2023, the Court granted Cartage’s motion for summary adjudication
regarding the negligent hiring, supervision, and retention cause of action, but
denied the motion regarding the negligence cause of action. 
 
            On February 23, 2024, the Court
granted Cartage’s motion for leave to file a cross-complaint against
Plaintiff’s employer, Andy Frain Services, Inc. (Min. Order, 2/23/24.) 
 
            On February 29, 2024, Cartage filed
its cross-complaint for equitable indemnification, contribution, and
declaratory relief against Andy Frain Services, Inc. (“Andy Frain”). 
 
            On September 9, 2024, the Court
granted in part Andy Frain’s motion for judgment on the pleadings against
Cartage’s cross-complaint. (Min. Order, 9/9/24.) The Court then requested
further “briefing regarding whether Cartage should be granted leave to amend,
namely, what claims Cartage proposes to allege that are not covered by worker’s
compensation’s exclusive remedy, and the ability of Cartage to do so given the
allegations in the FAC.” (Ibid.)
 
            Accordingly, Cartage’s request for
leave to amend was continued to September 24, 2024. Cartage’s memorandum of
points and authorities was due by September 16, 2024, and Andy Frain’s
responses was due September 19, 2024. (Min. Order, 9/9/24.)
 
LEGAL
STANDARD 
 
Leave
to Amend 
 
“A motion for judgment on the pleadings performs the same function as
a general demurrer, and hence attacks only defects disclosed on the face of the
pleadings or by matters that can be judicially noticed.” (Cloud v. Northrop
Grumman Corp. (1998) 67 Cal.App.4th 995, 999.) Where a demurrer is
sustained, leave to amend must be allowed where there is a reasonable
possibility of successful amendment. (Goodman v. Kennedy (1976) 18
Cal.3d 335, 348.) The burden is on the plaintiff to show the court that a
pleading can be amended successfully. (Id.; Lewis v. YouTube, LLC
(2015) 244 Cal.App.4th 118, 226.) However, “[i]f there is any reasonable
possibility that the plaintiff can state a good cause of action, it is error to
sustain a demurrer without leave to amend.” (Youngman v. Nevada Irrigation
Dist. (1969) 70 Cal.2d 240, 245).
 
Equitable
Indemnification
 
“The elements of a cause of action for indemnity are (1) a showing of
fault on the part of the indemnitor and (2) resulting damages to the indemnitee
for which the indemnitor is ... equitably responsible. [Citation.]” (Bailey
v. Safeway, Inc. (2011) 199 Cal.App.4th 206, 217 [internal quotations
omitted].) “There are two basic types of indemnity: express indemnity, which
relies on an express contract term providing for indemnification, and equitable
indemnity, which embraces ‘traditional equitable indemnity’ and implied
contractual indemnity.” (Jocer Enterprises, Inc. v. Price¿(2010) 183 Cal.App.4th 559, 573.)
 
“Traditional equitable indemnity and implied contractual
indemnity share a key feature that distinguishes them from express indemnity:
unlike express indemnity, neither traditional equitable indemnity nor implied
contractual indemnity is available ‘in the absence of a joint legal obligation
to the injured party.’ [Citation.] Under this principle, ‘there can be no
indemnity without liability,’ that is, the indemnitee and the indemnitor must
share liability for the injury. [citations omitted.].” (Jocer Enterprises, Inc., supra, 183
Cal.App.4th at 573 [internal quotations omitted].)  “Thus, no indemnity may be obtained
from an entity that has no pertinent duty to the injured third party [Citation],
that is immune from liability [citation], or that has been found not to be
responsible for the injury.” (Id. at 573-74.) 
 
“It is not sufficient, for purposes of
indemnification, for a defendant simply to claim someone else caused all or
part of the plaintiff’s damages. To state a claim for indemnification, a
defendant must allege that the same harm for which he may be held liable is
properly attributable – at least in part – to the alleged indemnitor.” (Molko
v. Holy Spirit Ass’n (1988) 46 Cal.3d 1092, 1127 [superseded by statute on
other grounds as stated in Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25
Cal.4th 826].) “If a defendant believes the plaintiff’s injuries were the
result of a different harm altogether, he may argue the point to the jury and
escape liability if successful. Absent some claim of mutual liability for the
same harm, however – under joint-and-several or vicarious liability principles,
for example – an indemnification action will not lie.” (Id. at 1127-28
[citation omitted].)
 
DISCUSSION
 
            In the Request for Leave to Amend,
Cartage alleges facts that Andy Frain prevented Plaintiff from seeking
medical care after the alleged attack and did not accommodate Plaintiff’s new
work restrictions following the incident and never allowed him to return to
work. (Request Amend, at 8-9.) As a result, Cartage alleges that Andy Frain
owed Plaintiff duties to reasonably accommodate his condition, to not
retaliate, and to not discriminate. Cartage also alleges that Plaintiff initiated
a workers’ compensation claim with Andy Frain. 
 
In other words, it appears Cartage seeks to litigate Fair Employment
and Housing Act (“FEHA”) claims, such as employment discrimination and wrongful
termination, on Plaintiff’s behalf (despite that Plaintiff himself is not
alleging this) and cites to cases regarding whether such claims are foreclosed
by workers’ compensation exclusivity. (Request Amend, at 11.) 
 
However, Cartage alleges no facts of a joint legal obligation to
Plaintiff, or the same harm. Rather, Cartage purports to allege that Andy Frain
separately caused Plaintiff’s damages, due to a different legal harm. As noted
above, a defendant may make such argument to the jury, but “an indemnification
action will not lie.” (Molko, supra, 46 Cal.3d at 1128.)[1]
 
CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
 
Accordingly, Cross-Complainant
Cartage West, Inc.’s request for leave to amend is DENIED.
 
            Moving
party shall give notice of the Court’s order and file a proof of service of
such.


