 Case Number:  22STCV18504    Hearing Date:   February 13, 2024    Dept:  40 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
Department 40
 



JANET WEISS, INDIVIDUALLY & AS TRUSTEE OF THE JANET WEISS
  SEPARATE PROPERTY TRUST DATED AUGUST 10, 2020,
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
NURBEH BARAVARIAN, AND DOES 1 THROUGH 20, INCLUSIVE,
                        Defendants.


 Case No.:          22STCV18504
 Hearing Date:   2/13/24
 Trial Date:        4/2/24
 [TENTATIVE] RULING RE:
Plaintiff Janet Weiss’s Motion to Compel Inspection.



 
Background
Plaintiff Janet Weiss—individually
and as trustee of the Janet Weiss Separate Property Trust Dated August 10, 2020—sues
Defendants Nurbeh Baravarian and Does 1 through 20 pursuant to a June 6, 2022
Complaint alleging claims of (1) IIED/NIED, (2) Violation of Easement, (3)
Violation of Covenant of Good Faith and Fair Dealing, and (4) Negligence.
The claims arise from the following
allegations. Plaintiff Weiss owns Unit 705 at 321 North Oakhurst, Beverly
Hills, California (the Weiss Condo; the Condominium Project). Plaintiff Weiss’s
downstairs neighbor at Unit 605 is Defendant Baravarian (the Baravarian Condo).
In violation of the Condominium Project’s Covenants, Codes, and Restrictions
(CC&Rs), Defendant Baravarian refused to permit Plaintiff Weiss rightful
access to a bathroom in Defendant Baravarian’s condominium unit to effect a
repair on a leaking water pipe housed between the Weiss Condo and the
Baravarian Condo, which was more accessible through Defendant Baravarian’s unit
as opposed to Plaintiff Weiss’s adjoining upstairs unit, resulting in damages
to Plaintiff Weiss.
On November 14, 2023, Plaintiff
Weiss filed a motion to compel an inspection of the Baravarian Condo.
On January 30, 2024, Defendant
Baravarian opposed the motion to compel inspection.
On February 6, 2024, Plaintiff
Weiss replied to the opposition.
Plaintiff Weiss’s motion is now
before the Court.
 
Motion to Compel Premises Inspection
Legal
Standard
A
demand to produce can be used to discover anything that is within the scope
discovery, is not protected by a privilege or other discovery exemption, and is
within the possession, custody, or control of the responding party. (See Code.
Civ. Proc., §§ 2017.010, 2031.010, subd. (a).) For example, the discovering
party can demand that the responding party permit it (or someone acting on the
responding party’s behalf) to inspect, photograph, test, or sample any tangible
thing in the responding party’s possession, custody or control. (Code. Civ.
Proc., § 2031.010, subd. (c).)
A
demand to produce must properly identify the documents, ESI, land, or other
things to be produced. (Code. Civ. Proc., § 2031.030, subd. (c)(1).) To
properly identify the things, the demand must (1) specifically describe each
thing to be produced or (2) describe with reasonable particularity each
category of item to be produced. (Code. Civ. Proc., § 2031.030, subd. (c)(1).) 
Further,
a demand to produce must identify the type of activity to be performed on the
things produced and how the activity will be performed. (Code. Civ. Proc., §
2031.030, subd. (c)(4).) A demand involving tangible things must state whether
they are to be inspected, photographed, tested, or sampled. (Code. Civ. Proc.,
§ 2031.030, subd. (c).)
The
inspection demand must be served (1) on the party to whom the inspection demand
was directed and (2) on all other parties who have appeared in the case. (Code.
Civ. Proc., § 2031.040.)
A
discovering party may file a motion to compel compliance with a demand to
produce when the responding party does not permit inspection, copying, testing,
sampling, or measuring in accordance with the compliance statement the
responding party serves in respond to the demand to produce. (Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 2031.320, subd. (a).)
Order
Compelling Premises Inspection: GRANTED.
In
her motion, Plaintiff Weiss argues that an inspection of the Baravarian Condo
is necessary to: (1) establish that Plaintiff Weiss should not have been
required to jackhammer her shower and concrete slab between floor when she
could have accessed the leak through the wallboard ceiling of the Baravarian
Condo, where repairs to the Weiss Condo have caused a $40,000 devaluation but
would have only cost Defendant Baravarian “a couple hundred dollars”; and (2)
show no damages to the Baravarian Condo, which will support IIED damages based
on the allegations that Defendant Baravarian attempted to extort compensation
from Plaintiff Baravarian for damages to his unit arising from Plaintiff
Baravarian’s repair of her unit. (Mot., pp. 1, 5-6; see Complaint, ¶¶ 15-17 [Defendant
Baravarian claims water leak causing damages of $7,286.04 to the Baravarian
Condo but estimated costs shown to actually be $2,119.18].) Plaintiff Weiss
also argues that an inspection will not invade privacy rights or that the need
to inspect overcomes those privacy rights because Defendant Baravarian caused
emotional distress to Plaintiff Weiss by yelling and screaming at Plaintiff
Weiss, including cornering Plaintiff Weiss in the corner of the Condominium
Project’s garage, all to demand payment for repairs to the Baravarian Condo and
threatening to place a lien on the Weiss Condo, while simultaneously failing to
make repairs to the Baravarian Condo. (Mot., pp. 6-7; see Complaint, ¶¶ 18-21.)
Plaintiff
Weiss makes other arguments relating to whether a small claims action between
the parties supports an inspection of the Baravarian Condo, which the Court
does not consider because this action does not encompass the issues in the
small claims action.
In
opposition, Defendant Baravarian argues that Plaintiff conflates this action
with the small claims action, with which the Court agreed above. Defendant
Baravarian also argues that an inspection of the Baravarian Condo is not
necessary because photographs are sufficient to inspect any damage to the
Baravarian Condo and an inspection of the bathroom will shed no light on the
issues in the action. Defendant Baravarian argues that he has no cross-pleading
in this action alleging damages and that emotional distress cannot relate to an
inspection of the Baravarian Condo because Defendant Baravarian has already
produced discovery showing damages to the Baravarian Condo in early 2023. Last,
Defendant Baravarian argues that the pleadings in no way put his right to
privacy in the Baravarian Condo at issue, for which reason there is no waiver
of the right to privacy. (Opp’n, pp. 6-8 [Court notes opposition attaches no
declaration signed under penalty of perjury by counsel, and attaches no supporting
evidence other than a separate statement per Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1345].)
In
reply, Plaintiff Weiss argues that an expert declaration filed by Plaintiff
shows good cause for inspection because, among other things, the inspection
will show that repairs to the Weiss Condo could have been more easily effected
from the Baravarian Condo with minimal to no damages to Defendant Baravarian
and is essential to determine the bias, truthfulness, and veracity of Defendant
Baravarian’s claims of damages to the Baravarian Condo. Plaintiff adds that the
opposition is not supported by any evidence and that the points and authorities
cannot act as evidence. Plaintiff Weiss also argues that the inspection is
necessary to show that the pipe Plaintiff Weiss needed to fix was better
accessed from the Baravarian Condo and to show that the lack of damage to the
Baravarian Condo frames Defendant Baravarian’s demands for money from Plaintiff
Weiss as baseless and extortionate (a partial basis for the IIED claim). Plaintiff
frames these discovery needs in juxtaposition to Defendant Baravarian’s
representations in the small claims case that he has not repaired damages in
his unit, to the fact that Defendant Baravarian has only permitted photos of
the Baravarian Condo, and to the fact that Defendant Baravarian has only
allowed one contractor to enter the Baravarian Condo. Last, Plaintiff argues
that the right to privacy is waived by the CC&Rs and overcome by the
discoverable evidence the inspection can produce. (Reply, pp. 1-10, citing in
part Reply, Madueno Decl., ¶¶ 3-5, 8 [expert declaration] & Weiss Decl., ¶
11 [photographs only], Exs. B [no evidence of payments for repairs], C [no
visible damage to Baravarian Condo].)
The
Court finds in favor of Plaintiff Weiss.
The
Court initially notes that the opposition is a pleading filed with the Court
that completely lacks evidentiary support, including declarations from the
party or counsel. (See Opp’n, p. 9 [unsworn] & Opp’n, Separate Statement,
p. 17 [same].) Such papers are evidentiarily not entitled to credence. (In
re Zeth S. (2003) 31 Cal.4th 396, 413, fn. 11 [“the unsworn statements of
counsel are not evidence,” citation omitted]; South Sutter, LLC v. LJ Sutter
Partners, L.P. (2011) 193 Cal.App.4th 634, 668, fn. 14 [unsworn arguments
of counsel in a legal memorandum are not evidence].)
            Defendant filed objections to the
Reply brief on February 9, 2024, on the ground that Weiss’ reply brief was
filed 4 court days instead of 5 court days before the hearing (February 12
being a court holiday) and on the ground that Plaintiff introduced new arguments
and three new declarations in the Reply. The Court notes that Defendant has not
shown any prejudice by the filing 1 day late. As to the argument that Plaintiff
has introduced new evidence: “While additional evidentiary matter submitted
with the reply ordinarily should not be allowed, the court has discretion to
consider it when it poses no prejudice to the opposing party.” (Hahn v.
Diaz-Barba (2011) 194 Cal.App.4th 1177, 1193.) Here, the Court does not
consider the additional declarations for any purpose other than to show that
Plaintiff’s expert does view the inspection of the bathroom as “necessary,” responding
to Defendant’s arguments in the opposition that it is not necessary. Even assuming
Defendant could, with supplemental briefing, introduce an expert or lay
declaration to the contrary, the Court is persuaded that Plaintiff’s request is
reasonably based on the evidence and facts, even if subject to dispute between
the parties.
Moving
to the merits, and even without consideration of the evidence submitted in
Reply, an inspection of the Baravarian Condo is relevant for various reasons. An
inspection can show whether the repairs to the pipe in the common space between
the Baravarian and Weiss Condos was more accessible from the Baravarian Condo
and permit a determination whether making such repairs through the wallboard
ceiling of Unit 605 would have been less costly, more effective, and more
reasonable, and whether Defendant Baravarian breached the CC&Rs by
prohibiting repairs to the pipe from the Baravarian Condo. Moreover, an
inspection can show that any claims of damage to the Baravarian Condo are
overinflated or false, supporting a conclusion that Defendant Baravarian’s
demands for payment from Plaintiff Weiss were baseless and amounted to nothing
more than extortion or harassment. (See Complaint, ¶¶ 6-14 [leak, need for
access, and repairs], 15-21 [Defendant Baravarian’s conduct].)
The
Court determines that any right to privacy held by Defendant Baravarian is
overcome by the compelling interest in an inspection of the Baravarian Condo to
pursue evidence relating to the issues discussed in the preceding paragraph. (Williams
v. Superior Court (2017) 3 Cal.5th 531, 556 [If the case involves an
obvious invasion of a privacy interest that is fundamental to the holder’s
personal autonomy, a compelling interest or need must be present to overcome
the privacy interest].) In addition, Baravarian can mitigate any privacy concerns
by removing personal effects from the bathroom before it is inspected.
While
Defendant Baravarian argues that damages can be assessed by inspecting photos,
the Court is not convinced that there is no benefit to permitting an inspection
and allowing Plaintiff Weiss to conduct her own discovery. Discovery of course is
broader than admissibility, and should be allowed when it is likely--not
guaranteed--to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence. Moreover,
Defendant Baravarian cites no authority prohibiting an inspection here and has
filed no motion for protective order. Any arguments relating to burden or
similar objections—see, e.g., Code Civ. Proc., 2019.030, subds. (a)(1)-(2)—are
unavailing where the Court is not convinced that an assessment of damage to the
Baravarian Condo should be limited to review of photographic evidence. Indeed,
such a limitation goes against the express purpose of the provisions of Code of
Civil Procedure section 2031.010.
The
Court otherwise disposes of Defendant Baravarian’s remaining objections on the
above grounds.
Plaintiff
Weiss’s motion is thus GRANTED.
Sanctions:
DENIED.
Except
as related to certain ESI production, the court shall impose a monetary
sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010) against any party,
person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel
compliance with a demand, unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction
acted with substantial justification or that other circumstances make the
imposition of the sanction unjust. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.320, subd. (b).)
After
review, here, the Court determines that sanctions would be unjust and are thus
DENIED.
As
argued by Defendant Baravarian: “A timely response to Plaintiff’s Demand for Inspection
was provided. [See Plaintiff’s Exhibit B[.]] Subsequently, a written and
detailed explanation for Defendant’s position was provided [See Plaintiff’s
Exhibit F], [to] which Plaintiff failed to respond …, such that if anyone has
acted unreasonably, it appears to be Plaintiff. Defendant also willingly
participated in an IDC hearing, where the Court suggested that Plaintiff should
withdraw this Motion.” (Opp’n, p. 8.) 
The
IDC Conference is an off the record conference which does not constitute a
ruling on a motion, nor is it based on a full review of the papers in support
and against the motion. When a discovery dispute is not resolved at an IDC, the
motion comes on for hearing after a full review of both parties’ papers. Nevertheless,
as indicated by the Court’s initial reaction, as contrasted with its final
ruling, this was a close case, in which both sides raised reasonable arguments.
Sanctions are not appropriate here. 

Conclusion
Plaintiff Janet Weiss’s Motion to
Compel Inspection is GRANTED.
Defendant Nurbeh Baravarian SHALL
permit an inspection of the Baravarian Condo within 30 days of this ruling.
Plaintiff Janet Weiss’s Request for
Sanctions is DENIED.