 Case Number:  23SMCV00021    Hearing Date:   September 21, 2023    Dept:  1 23SMCV00021          SEAN
CLARK, AN INDIVIDUAL vs COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES
Plaintiff’s Motion to Transfer District 
TENTATIVE RULING:       The
motion is DENIED.
Standard

 
The
Local Rules of the Los Angeles Superior Court govern the assignment of cases
between its districts and departments. (Code Civ. Proc. § 402.) LASC Local Rule
2.3(b)(2) authorizes Department 1 to transfer civil cases from one judicial
district to another via a noticed motion on three enumerated grounds: (1) when
the case was filed in an improper district; (2) for the convenience of
witnesses; or (3) to promote the ends of justice. (LASC
Local Rule 2.3(b)(2).) 
 
Plaintiff Failed to Demonstrate a Transfer is Warranted
 
Plaintiff
seeks to transfer this action to the Stanley Mosk Courthouse in the Central
District. The case is currently assigned to Department P of the Santa Monica
Courthouse, which sits in the West District of the Los Angeles Superior Court.
(LASC Local Rule 2.2(b).)
 
Local
Rule 2.3(a)(1)(A) contains mandatory filing rules which have no application to
Plaintiff’s complaint, as the case does not fall within any of the enumerated
case types: personal injury, asbestos, class action, probate, Labor Code
section 98.2, writ of prohibition or mandate, emancipation, or adoption. If
none of the mandatory provisions apply, an unlimited civil case may be filed in
the Central District at a plaintiff’s election. 
(LASC Local Rule 2.3(a)(1)(B) (“Except as set forth in subsection (A) above,
[Mandatory Filing], . . .  an unlimited
civil or Family Code action may be filed in the Central District . . .”).) An
unlimited civil complaint asserting employment related claims may be filed
either in the Central District or “where the contract of employment was
performed or where the employer resides or does business.” (LASC Local Rule
2.3(a)(1)(B).) Plaintiff alleges Defendant employed Plaintiff at 427 Encinal
Canyon Road, Malibu, California 90265, (Compl. ¶ 3), which is within the West
District. Thus, Plaintiff’s action is properly filed in either the West
District or the Central District.
 
Plaintiff
contends “[d]ue to a clerical error by a clerk of the Los Angeles Superior
Court, several cases filed by Plaintiff’s counsel’s law firm that should have
been assigned to the Central District as a matter of right, were incorrectly
routed to incorrect courthouses.” (Mot. at 1:3-5.)
 
Plaintiff’s
motion and supporting declaration refer almost exclusively to Plaintiff’s
counsel’s filing difficulties in a different case, 22SMCV02721 Chavez v.
Santa Monica. (Mot. at 1:27-2:20; Xie Decl. ¶¶ 3-16, Ex. 2-7.) Plaintiff’s
reliance on his counsel’s prior filings involving different cases is misplaced.
Neither the motion nor the supporting declaration provide any evidence that
Plaintiff properly attempted to file the instant case in the Central District
and was unable to complete such filing. Plaintiff attaches email correspondence
with a court administrator, which lists this case as a matter that has “been
assigned to different venues due to the repeated rejections and instructions
we’d been given to write on the Civil Case Cover Sheet Addendum.” (Xie Decl.
Ex. 1.) As noted by Defendant, (Opp. at 3:13-24), the email from the court
administrator refers to the selection of Reason 2 on the civil case sheet
addendum. (Xie Decl. Ex. 1 (“We have reiterated to them that, when item 2 and
Central are selected as the location reasons on the Civil Case Cover Sheet, the
filing shall be accepted for Central regardless of the address or zip code.”).)
Plaintiff has not demonstrated he selected Reason 2 on a rejected filing in
this case.
 
Plaintiff
provides a rejected civil case cover sheet addendum for this action dated October
25, 2022. (Xie Decl. Ex. 8.) In “Step
4” of this civil case cover sheet addendum where the filing party is asked to
“[c]heck the appropriate boxes for the numbers shown under Column C for
the type of action that you have selected. Enter the address, which is the
basis for the filing location including zip code,” Plaintiff’s counsel selected Reason 3 only, which correlates with the
“[l]ocation where cause of action arose,” and listed the relevant address as 427 Encinal Canyon Road Malibu, CA
90265, (Xie Decl. Ex. 8.) This address is Plaintiff’s former place of employment alleged in the complaint. (Compl.
¶ 3.) As noted by Defendant in opposition, (Opp. at 3:13-24), Plaintiff did not
select Reason 2, which correlates with permissive filing in the Central
District. (Xie Decl. Ex. 8.) In
“Step 5” of the civil case cover sheet, where the filing party is asked to
certify the proper filing location, Plaintiff’s counsel indicated the Central
District was the appropriate filing location under the applicable Local Rules,
which is entirely inconsistent with Plaintiff’s stated Reason and address. (Xie Decl. Ex. 8.) 
 
The clerk’s Notice of Rejection alerted Plaintiff’s
counsel to this inconsistency: “type of action with zip code 90265 is not filed
at Stanley Mosk. Please refer to filing court locator on the court website to
determine correct courthouse.” (Xie Decl. Ex. 9.) Rather than make clear
Plaintiff sought to permissively file the case in the Central District,
Plaintiff changed the certification in Step 5 only, to confirm the West
District was the proper district. (Xie Decl. Ex. 10.) Thus,
Plaintiff’s complaint was filed in West District, a proper district in
compliance with the Local Rules. 
 
Plaintiff’s
motion is not supported by any applicable facts or law demonstrating a transfer
of this action, 23SMCV00021 Clark v. County of Los Angeles, is warranted.
There is no basis to transfer the action based upon a “failure to file the case
in accordance with the requirements set forth in . . . Chapter” 2 of the Local
Rules. (LASC Local Rule 2.3(b)(2).) The Court finds Plaintiff’s summary
invocation of the Court’s inherent authority unpersuasive where, as here, there
are enumerated Local Rules governing the specific relief sought. 
 
Plaintiff
failed to meet his burden and the motion is DENIED with prejudice.
 