  Case Number:  20STCV36767    Hearing Date:   September 21, 2023    Dept:  1 20STCV36767           DJAMILEH
MAHJOUBI vs DAVID E FERMELIA, MD
Plaintiff’s Motion to Transfer Case to Another
Department; Request for Immediate Stay of Proceedings 
TENTATIVE RULING:       The
motion is DENIED.
Plaintiff Failed to Demonstrate a Proper Basis for the
Transfer Sought 
 
The
Local Rules of the Los Angeles Superior Court govern the assignment of cases
between its districts and departments. (Code Civ. Proc. § 402.) LASC Local Rule
2.3(b)(2) authorizes Department 1 to transfer civil cases from one judicial
district to another via a noticed motion on three enumerated grounds: (1) when
the case was filed in an improper district; (2) for the convenience of
witnesses; or (3) to promote the ends of justice. (LASC
Local Rule 2.3(b)(2).) 
 
In
the motion, Plaintiff lists various grievances against Judge Thomas Long, which
are not properly before this Court on a motion to transfer. Plaintiff raises
issues regarding the calendaring of motions, the denial of a “verbal”
peremptory challenge, disagreement with court rulings, and a peremptory
challenge “hereby submitted to Department 1.” Department 1 is not the proper
department to submit Plaintiff’s peremptory challenge related to Judge Long.
(Code Civ. Proc. § 170.6(a)(2).) Contrary to Plaintiff’s assertion, (Mot. at 3:10-12),
the case remains assigned to Judge Long for all purposes. 
 
Plaintiff
does not cite any authority supporting the proposition that a litigant may, via
a motion to transfer, avoid the statutory procedures for disqualifying a
judicial officer. (Code Civ. Proc. §§ 170 et seq.) Until an assigned
judicial officer is found to be disqualified in a procedurally proper manner,
that judge has both an ethical and statutory duty to decide the cases assigned
to them. (Cal. Code Jud. Ethics, canon 3B(8); Code Civ. Proc. § 170; Cal. Rules
of Court, rule 10.608.) 
 
Judge
Long denied Plaintiff’s “oral motion to continue hearing and motion for the
court to recuse itself” on August 15, 2023. (Pltf. Ex. G.) To the extent
Plaintiff’s request for recusal was pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure
sections 170.1 and 170.3, Plaintiff’s recourse was to seek a writ with the
Court of Appeal. (Code Civ. Proc. § 170.3(d) (“The determination of the
question of the disqualification of a judge is not an appealable order and may
be reviewed only by a writ of mandate from the appropriate court of appeal
sought only by the parties to the proceeding.”).) While Department 1 may hear
motions for reconsideration of an order granting a peremptory challenge under
Code of Civil Procedure section 170.6, (LASC Local Rule 2.23(1)), Plaintiff’s
challenge was denied and there is no basis for Department 1 to review that
order. 
 
As
noted by Defendant in opposition, (Opp. at 5:12-14), Plaintiff’s caption page
for the motion references a request for a stay, but does not provide any
argument or authority in the motion regarding that request. (Jones v.
Superior Court (1994) 26 Cal.App.4th 92, 99 (“Issues do not have a life of
their own: if they are not raised or supported by argument or citation to
authority, we consider the issues waived.”).) Moreover, Plaintiff’s case is not
assigned to Department 1 and the Local Rules do not designate Department 1 as
the proper department to consider Plaintiff’s stay request. 
 
Plaintiff has not demonstrated a basis
for relief that can be granted by Department 1. Accordingly, Plaintiff’s motion
is DENIED.