 Case Number:  22SMCV02721    Hearing Date:   September 21, 2023    Dept:  1 22SMCV02721          JAMES
CHAVEZ vs CITY OF SANTA MONICA
Plaintiff’s Motion to Transfer District 
TENTATIVE RULING:       The
motion is GRANTED.
Standard

 
The
Local Rules of the Los Angeles Superior Court govern the assignment of cases
between its districts and departments. (Code Civ. Proc. § 402.) LASC Local Rule
2.3(b)(2) authorizes Department 1 to transfer civil cases from one judicial
district to another via a noticed motion on three enumerated grounds: (1) when
the case was filed in an improper district; (2) for the convenience of
witnesses; or (3) to promote the ends of justice. (LASC
Local Rule 2.3(b)(2).) 
 
A Transfer is Warranted Under the Circumstances Here
 
Plaintiff
seeks to transfer this action to the Stanley Mosk Courthouse in the Central
District. The case is currently assigned to Department M of the Santa Monica
Courthouse, which sits in the West District of the Los Angeles Superior Court.
(LASC Local Rule 2.2(b).)
 
Local
Rule 2.3(a)(1)(A) contains mandatory filing rules which do not apply to
Plaintiff’s complaint, as the case does not fall within any of the enumerated
case types: personal injury, asbestos, class action, probate, Labor Code
section 98.2, writ of prohibition or mandate, emancipation, or adoption. If
none of the mandatory provisions apply, an unlimited civil case may be filed in
the Central District at a plaintiff’s election. 
(LASC Local Rule 2.3(a)(1)(B) (“Except as set forth in subsection (A)
above, [Mandatory Filing], . . .  an
unlimited civil or Family Code action may be filed in the Central District . .
.”).) An unlimited civil complaint asserting employment related claims may be
filed either in the Central District or “where the contract of employment was
performed or where the employer resides or does business.” (LASC Local Rule
2.3(a)(1)(B).) Defendant City of Santa Monica resides and does business in the
West District. Thus, Plaintiff’s action is properly filed in either the West
District or the Central District. 
 
Plaintiff
contends “[d]ue to a clerical error by a clerk of the Los Angeles Superior
Court, several cases filed by Plaintiff’s counsel’s law firm that should have
been assigned to the Central District as a matter of right, were incorrectly
routed to incorrect courthouses.” (Mot. at 1:3-5.) Plaintiff attempted to file
this action several times, but the clerk’s office rejected every attempt to
permissively file the case in the Central District. (Xie Decl. Ex. 2-14, Ex.
1-7.) The last notice of rejection expressly stated “[o]n the addendum,
according to the fcl, this should be filed in Santa Monica Courthouse or
Beverly Hills Courthouse.” (Xie Decl. Ex. 7.) 
 
As
argued by Plaintiff and acknowledged by a court operations administrator, (Xie
Decl. Ex. 1), the clerk’s office mistakenly rejected Plaintiff’s attempted
permissive filings in the Central District and mistakenly mandated Plaintiff
file this action in the West District. Plaintiff complied with the clerk’s
office’s instructions to ensure the complaint was filed. Defendant contends “it
was not wrong for the Court to assign this case to Santa Monica . . . [and] the
Santa Monica Courthouse is an appropriate place for the trial of this matter.”
(Opp. at 2:7-14.) While filing mistakes are typically made by the filing party,
in this instance it is clear the filing mistakes were made by the clerk’s
office. The Local Rules expressly allow Plaintiff to permissively file this
action in the Central District and Plaintiff was prevented from such filing.
(LASC Local Rule 2.3(a)(1)(B).) 
 
Accordingly,
there has been “a failure to file the case in accordance with the requirements
set forth in” Chapter 2 of the Local Rules, which is a proper basis for a
transfer between districts. (LASC Local Rules 2.3(b)(2).) Plaintiff’s motion is
GRANTED. 
 
Conclusion
 
Plaintiff’s
Motion to Transfer District is GRANTED and 22SMCV02721 is ordered reassigned to
the Stanley Mosk Courthouse in the Central District of the Los Angeles Superior
Court.
 
Notice
of Reassignment shall be issued shortly.
 
Plaintiff
to give notice. 
 