  Case Number:  22STCV13106    Hearing Date:   October 31, 2024    Dept:  52 Plaintiff Maureen Martinez’s Motion to Compel
Further Testimony and Document Production from Armine Ambartsumyan
            Plaintiff
Maureen Martinez moves to compel deponent Armine Ambartsumyan to answer
questions asked at deposition, to testify at a second day of deposition, and to
produce documents at deposition.
Meet and Confer
Defendants Farmers Group, Inc., Farmers
Insurance Exchange, Fire Insurance Exchange, Truck Insurance Exchange,
Mid-Century Insurance Company, and Farmers New World Life Insurance Company
(collectively, “Farmers”) argue plaintiff did not meet and confer in good faith
before filing this motion as required. 
When meeting and conferring, “though some effort is required in all instances [citation], the level of
effort that is reasonable is different in different circumstances, and may vary
with the prospects for success.”  (Obregon
v. Superior Court (1998) 67 Cal.App.4th 424, 432–433.)  
Under the circumstances, plaintiff
adequately met and conferred as to compelling answers and further testimony.  The parties have already had numerous bitter discovery
disputes.  This time, at the end of the
deposition, plaintiff’s counsel stated, “[W]e will pick up on another
day.”  (Gallagher Decl., Ex. E,
Ambartsumyan Depo., 285:15-16.)  Farmers’
counsel replied, “Well, I am not agreeing to produce the witness.  You have wasted so much time here today.  You can take that up with the judge.”  (Id., 285:17-19.)  
After the deposition, plaintiff’s
counsel wrote to Farmers’ counsel: “I am emailing you to meet and confer
regarding getting available deposition dates for the following people.  Please provide us with some available dates
for each person by Friday 9/4/2024.” 
(Gallagher Decl., Ex. D.) 
Defendants’ counsel replied, “Ms. Ambartsumyan will not be appearing for
a further session of the deposition.”  (Ibid.)  Farmers’ counsel made it reasonably clear that
any further discussion would be futile.  
            Plaintiff
did not, however, meet and confer as required regarding the document requests.  Plaintiff’s declaration does not demonstrate
any attempt to resolve that dispute. 
Answers to Specific Questions
            Plaintiff
shows good cause to require Ambartsumyan to answer the three questions included
in the separate statement.  “If a
deponent fails to answer any question …, the party seeking discovery may move
the court for an order compelling that answer.” 
(CCP § 2025.480(a).)  Generally,
the deponent may avoid answering a question only based on an objection “to
protect privileged information from disclosure.”  (Stewart v. Colonial Western Agency, Inc.
(2001) 87 Cal.App.4th 1006, 1014.)  For
other objectionable questions, “counsel should not instruct the deponent not to
answer … ‘[u]nless the objecting party demands that the taking of the
deposition be suspended to permit a motion for a protective order.’ ”  (Ibid.) 
            For the
three disputed questions, Farmers did not object based on privilege.  Farmers made other objections that, even if valid,
do not permit instructing the witness not to answer.  
            Question
No. 1 states: “So it would be against the law to retaliate against Ms. Martinez
for making a complaint to the Department of Insurance, correct?”  Defendants’ counsel objected on the ground
that the question “clearly calls for a legal opinion.”  The court agrees: the objection is
meritorious.  But defendants’ counsel had
no right to instruct the witness not to answer. 
Defendants’ only remedy was to demand to suspend the deposition to seek
a protective order.  The court admonishes
plaintiff’s counsel for asking a clearly inappropriate question.  The court admonishes defendants’ counsel for
instructing the witness not to testify.  
            This is one
of many examples of how counsel for both sides have acted in an unreasonable,
overly aggressive, and discourteous manner in this litigation.  The cost of litigation has substantially and
unnecessarily increased because of the conduct of the attorneys for plaintiff
and Farmers.
Farmers does not meet its burden of
justifying its objections as to question Nos. 2 and 3.  Question No. 2 asks a follow-up question to Ambartsumyan’s
testimony that she “terminated a district manager as well that was a male.”  The transcript continues: “Q. For what?  A. Violating the contract.  Q. Violating the contract by how?  A. I don’t want to get into details.”  (Ambartsumyan Depo., 198:2-5.)  
Farmers objected that the question
was not reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence.  Ambartsumyan recommended terminating
plaintiff.  Asking why she terminated
someone else is discoverable. 
Plaintiff’s FEHA claims require proving “that discrimination was a substantial
motivating factor” for terminating her. 
(Harris v. City of Santa Monica (2013) 56 Cal.4th 203, 232,
italics in original.)  Plaintiffs
frequently must rely on circumstantial evidence to prove an employer’s
motive.  (See Colarossi v. Coty US
Inc. (2002) 97 Cal.App.4th 1142, 1153.)  This question poses a reasonable possibility
of discovering evidence admissible for the purpose of proving motive.   
Farmers also objected that the
question violated the district manager’s privacy rights.  “The party asserting a privacy right must establish
a legally protected privacy interest, an objectively reasonable expectation of
privacy in the given circumstances, and a threatened intrusion that is
serious.”  (Williams v. Superior
Court (2017) 3 Cal.5th 531, 552.)  Farmers does not establish the latter two
elements.  
Question No. 3 was, “Where is --
where is this conflict of interest defined anywhere?”  Farmers objected and instructed the deponent
not to answer on the basis that she had already answered it multiple
times.  Farmers asserts three portions of
the transcript include the same question and answer.  (Opp., p. 7, citing 71:22 – 72:5,
118:24-119:11, 119:13-22.)  Those
portions of the transcript include other questions and answers about conflicts
of interest.  None of those questions specifically
asked if Farmers has a document defining “conflict of interest.”  That the agency contract has a “conflict of
interest section” (Ambartsumyan Depo., 118:24-25) does not necessarily mean the
contract defines that phrase.
Second Day of Deposition
            Plaintiff
shows good cause to require Ambartsumyan to testify at a second day of
deposition.  The rule limiting depositions “to seven hours of total
testimony” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.290, subd. (a)) does not apply “[t]o any
case brought by an employee or applicant for employment against an employer for
acts or omissions arising out of or relating to the employment relationship” (id.,
subd. (b)(4)).  Farmers did not move for
a protective order or show a sufficient basis for ending the deposition.  Counsel for both sides of this dispute
engaged in some disruptive behavior at the deposition.  Plaintiff’s counsel’s conduct does not justify
stopping her from completing Ambartsumyan’s deposition.    
Document Requests
As to the document requests, in
addition to failing to meet and confer, plaintiff’s motion is procedurally
defective.  She did not include the
requests, Farmers’ responses, or reasons for compelling production in the
mandatory separate statement.  “The
motions that require a separate statement include a motion … [t]o compel or to
quash the production of documents or tangible things at a deposition.”  (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1345(a)(5).)  Plaintiff’s papers do not include a copy of
any objections to the requests and do not state whether defendants produced any
documents in response to the requests.
Sanctions
Both sides seek monetary sanctions
against one another.  Plaintiff’s motion
and Farmers’ opposition were both partially successful.  Plaintiff and Farmers acted with substantial
justification.  No sanctions are appropriate.  
Disposition
            Plaintiff
Maureen Martinez’s motion to compel further deposition of Armine Ambartsumyan
is granted as to compelling answers to question Nos. 1-3 in the separate
statement and as to compelling a second day of deposition.  
Defendants Farmers Group, Inc., Farmers
Insurance Exchange, Fire Insurance Exchange, Truck Insurance Exchange,
Mid-Century Insurance Company, and Farmers New World Life Insurance Company are
ordered to make deponent Armine Ambartsumyan available for a second day
of deposition no later than November 18, 2024. 
By November 5, defendants shall propose three dates between November 6
and November 18 for the continued deposition. 
Plaintiff shall choose one of the three dates defendants propose. 