 Case Number:  24STCV16946    Hearing Date:   October 31, 2024    Dept:  52 Specially Appearing
Defendant Coastal Health Care, Inc. dba Brentwood Health Care Center’s Motion
to Quash Service of Process
Specially
appearing defendant Coastal Health Care, Inc. dba Brentwood Health Care Center
(Coastal) moves to quash service of summons by plaintiff Brett Stettner for the
Estate of Suzi G. Stettner.  “[O]nce a
defendant files a motion to quash the burden is on the plaintiff to prove by a
preponderance of the evidence the validity of the service.”  (Bolkiah v. Superior Court (1999)
74 Cal.App.4th 984, 991.)  
Plaintiff does not
meet his burden of showing valid service of summons.  “A summons may be served on a corporation by
delivering a copy of the summons and the complaint” to one of several people,
including “the person designated as agent for service of process,” a corporate
officer, or “a person authorized by the corporation to receive service of
process.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 416.10.)  
Plaintiff’s proof of
service attests to personal service via “Mitchel Taylor / Authorized Person” at
1321 Franklin Street, Santa Monica, CA 90404. 
(Harrison Decl., Ex. B.)  Coastal’s
registered agent for service is Victor Lundquist at 25910 Acero, Ste 350,
Mission Viejo, CA 92691.  (Id.,
Ex. A.)  Plaintiff does not present
evidence showing Mitchel Taylor is a person authorized to accept service on
behalf of Coastal.  Without such
evidence, the proof of service does not show valid personal service on Coastal.  
Plaintiff also does
not show valid substituted service.  As
an alternative to personal service, “a summons may be served” on a corporation
“by leaving a copy of the summons and complaint” at the corporation’s office “with
the person who is apparently in charge thereof, and by thereafter mailing a
copy of the summons and complaint by first-class mail, postage prepaid to the
person to be served at the place where a copy of the summons and complaint were
left.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 415.20, subd.
(a).)
Assuming Mitchel
Taylor was the person apparently in charge of Coastal’s office, the proof of
service is insufficient because the process server does not attest to mailing a
copy of the documents to the person to be served after leaving the documents
with Taylor.  The part of the proof of
service indicating subsequently mailing the documents is blank.  (Harrison Decl., Ex. B, § 5.b(4).)  
Specially
appearing defendant Coastal Health Care, Inc. dba Brentwood Health Care Center’s
motion to quash service of process is granted.  The court hereby quashes service of
the summons on defendant Coastal Health Care, Inc. dba Brentwood Health Care
Center.  