 Case Number:  23STCV18814    Hearing Date:   October 31, 2024    Dept:  52 Plaintiff
Marcelino Diaz’s Motion to Compel Production of Documents and to Compel
Deposition
Evidentiary Objections
            Plaintiff
Marcelino Diaz makes seven objections to the declaration of counsel for defendant
Blue Cross of California dba Anthem Blue Cross (Anthem).  Anthem’s counsel does not lay sufficient
foundation for personal knowledge of the facts stated in her declaration.  All seven objections are sustained.
Production of Documents
Plaintiff Marcelino Diaz moves to compel Anthem to
produce additional documents in compliance with its responses to inspection
demands Nos. 1, 3, and 4.  Code of Civil
Procedure section 2031.320(a) provides, “If a party filing a response to a
demand for inspection, copying, testing, or sampling … thereafter fails to
permit the inspection, copying, testing, or sampling in accordance with that
party’s statement of compliance, the demanding party may move for an order
compelling compliance.”
Plaintiff meets his burden of showing Anthem did not
produce all documents in its possession, custody, or control in accordance with
its statements of compliance for demands for inspection Nos. 1, 3, and 4.
Demand
for inspection No. 1 asked for: “All documents and electronically stored
information (‘ESI’) that relate or refer to Plaintiff as they have existed at
any time from November 1, 2021 to the present.  These documents and ESI should include but not
be limited to those that evidence: a) any communications with Plaintiff or
anyone acting on his behalf; b) any communications among your personnel
regarding Plaintiff; c) any emails or text messages regarding Plaintiff.”  
Demand
No. 3 asked for: “The documents and ESI evidencing any communications with
customer service representatives regarding Plaintiff as they have existed at
any time from November 1, 2021 to the present.”
Demand
No. 4 asked for: “All documents and ESI evidencing any activity by Grievances
and Appeals personnel on any grievance made by Plaintiff or anyone acting on
his behalf at any time,” including but not limited to documents showing five
specific matters.  
Anthem
ultimately responded to these demands by producing many documents and stating
it “conducted a reasonably diligent search for responsive documents and has
produced all non-privileged responsive documents in its possession, custody,
and control.”  After plaintiff filed this
motion, Anthem produced additional documents. 
Plaintiff, however, presents evidence showing Anthem has additional
responsive documents falling in two categories.
First,
plaintiff seeks “screenshots from its PEGA computer system” used to process
grievances.  The record indicates Anthem
produced some documents of that type. 
(Robles Decl., ¶ 9, Ex. A.)  Anthem
does not deny having additional documents of that type.  Anthem must produce them all.
Second,
plaintiff seeks metadata for all 55 audio recordings Anthem produced.  Anthem’s counsel testifies, “Anthem was able
to manually prepare XML files for 10 of the produced audio recordings that were
stored in its older database.  Anthem
produced the XML files for the 10 produced audio recordings in its October 16,
2024 production.  Anthem, however, was
unable to prepare XML files for the remaining audio recordings because those
recordings are not stored in .xml files.” 
(Robles Decl., ¶ 23.)  Even if that
evidence were admissible, it does not mean Anthem does not have additional
responsive documents. 
The
electronically stored metadata for all the audio recordings falls within demands
for inspection Nos. 1, 3, and 4. 
Plaintiff did not limit his demands to XML files.  That the other 45 recordings have no
associated XML files does not mean Anthem does not have the metadata in some
form.  The fact that Anthem could
identify the responsive audio files necessarily means it has some additional
information about them. 
Deposition
of Anthem’s Person Most Qualified
            Plaintiff moves to compel the
deposition of Anthem’s person most qualified regarding the “purpose and
function of a ‘Case Summary,’ … including how a Case Summary is generated,
constructed, or used, and the sources of information it draws from for its
content.”  A party may move to compel the
deposition of a party and to compel production of documents requested in the
notice when the party fails to appear at deposition or produce documents
“without having served a valid objection under Section 2025.410.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.450, subd. (a).) 
Anthem
did not serve a valid objection to the deposition.  It objected that the date was unilaterally
set.  That may be a practical reason to not attend a deposition, but it is not a valid
objection under Code of Civil Procedure section 2025.410.  That section refers to objections to “a
deposition notice that does not comply with Article 2 (commencing with section
2025.210),” not for other reasons a party cannot attend a deposition.  Though it is a professional courtesy to
mutually schedule a deposition, the Civil Discovery Act does not require that.  “An oral deposition shall be scheduled for a
date at least 10 days after service of the deposition notice.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.270, subd. (a).)  “The service of a deposition notice under
Section 2025.240 is effective to require any deponent who is a party to the
action… to attend and to testify, as well as to produce any document,
electronically stored information, or tangible thing for inspection and
copying.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.280,
subd. (a).)
After plaintiff filed this motion, Anthem agreed to
produce a deponent.  Anthem, however, seeks
to postpone the deposition until after cross-defendants appear in this
action.  That request is reasonable.  Otherwise, the deponents could be required to
testify at deposition a third time after cross-defendants appear.  After plaintiff filed his reply brief, Anthem
filed a motion for protective order to postpone depositions until after
cross-defendants appear.  The court will
not order Anthem to produce its deponent until it rules on Anthem’s motion for
protective order.
Reopening Other Depositions
            Plaintiff
further moves to reopen the depositions of Anthem employees Jacqueline Peterson
and Doreen Martinez, limited to any documents produced after their prior
depositions.  Code of Civil Procedure
section 2025.610, subdivision (b) provides, “[F]or good cause shown, the court
may grant leave to take a subsequent deposition.”  Section 2025.610 does not require meeting and
conferring before such a motion, but plaintiff does not show he made any effort
to informally resolve the dispute before filing the motion.  After plaintiff filed the motion, Anthem
agreed to produce the deponents subject to limitations.  In his reply brief, plaintiff objects to two
of the limitations. 
First, plaintiff objects to the limit that the
deposition “shall not refer to any subjects and/or information … that should
have been previously covered.”  (Robles
Decl., ¶ 26.)  Plaintiff argues what
“should have been” covered is too vague to be implemented.  The court agrees.  Anthem may not limit the depositions in that
manner.
Second, plaintiff objects to Anthem’s request that the
depositions occur after all cross-defendants have appeared in this action.  As discussed above with respect to the
deposition of Anthem’s person most qualified, that request is reasonable.  
Sanctions
            Plaintiff
requests monetary sanctions against Anthem and its counsel.  The court will not impose sanctions because Anthem
acted with substantial justification.  The
record indicates Anthem tried in good faith to produce responsive documents and
to work with plaintiff on scheduling the depositions.  Anthem had good reason to resist producing
witnesses for depositions before cross-defendants have appeared in this action.  
Disposition
             Plaintiff Marcelino Diaz’s motion to compel
production of documents and compel deposition is granted
in part.  The court hereby orders defendant Blue Cross of California dba Anthem Blue
Cross to produce all documents, including screenshots from the PEGA system and
metadata for all audio recordings, in accordance with its statements of
compliance in response to demands for inspection Nos. 1, 3, and 4, within 20
days.