 Case Number:  22STCV04368    Hearing Date:   January 11, 2024    Dept:  37 HEARING DATE:                 Thursday, January 11, 2024
CASE NUMBER:                   22STCV04368
CASE NAME:                        Lermont Moukoian v. The Estate of Harutiun Moukoian, et al. 
MOVING PARTY:                 Plaintiff Lermont Moukoian individually
and as Trustee of the Lermon Moukoian Living Trust
OPPOSING PARTY:             Defendants The Estate of Harutiun
Moukoian; Zovinar Suzie Postajian Moukoian (“Zovinar” or “Suzie”) individually
and as Trustee of the Zov S. Postajian Moukoian Living Trust. 
TRIAL DATE:                        30 January 2024
PROOF OF SERVICE:           OK

                                                                                                                                                            

PROCEEDING:                      Motion for Summary
Adjudication 
OPPOSITION:                        29 November 2023
REPLY:                                  08
December 2023
 
TENTATIVE:                         Plaintiff’s
Motion for Summary Adjudication is granted as to the eighth cause of action and
denied as to the first, fifth, and ninth causes of action. 
 

                                                                                                                                                            

 
Background
 
This action involves a dispute over ownership of a property. On
February 3, 2022, Lermont Moukoian (“Plaintiff” or “Lermont”) individually and
as Trustee of the Lermont Moukoian Living Trust, filed a Complaint against The
Estate of Harutiun Moukoian; Zovinar Suzie Postajian Moukoian (“Zovinar” or
“Suzie”) individually and as Trustee of the Zov S. Postajian Moukoian Living
Trust (collectively “Defendants”); Does 1 to 70, and All Persons or Entities
Unknown Claiming Any Legal or Equitable Right, Title, Estate, Lien or Interest
in the property located in Glendale, California (the “Glendale Property”). 
 
The operative First Amended Complaint
(“FAC”) alleges nine causes of action: (1) Cancellation of Instruments under
Civ. Code § 3412; (2) Financial Elder Abuse in violation of Welf. & Inst.
Code §§ 15610.27, 15610.30, and 15657.5; (3) Physical Elder Abuse in violation
of Welf. & Inst. Code §§ 15610.27, 15610.07, 15610.57, and 15657; (4)
Fraud/Intentional Misrepresentation; (5) Quiet Title; (6) Conversion; (7)
Unjust Enrichment; (8) Prob. Code §§  850
and 859 for double damages; and (9) Declaratory Relief.
 
On April 28, 2023, Federal Home Loan
Mortgage Company was dismissed as a defendant. 
 
On June 15, 2022, Zovinar, individually
and as trustee filed a Cross-Complaint against Lermont, individually and as
trustee of the Lermont Moukoian Living Trust, and Roes 1 to 20. The
Cross-Complaint alleges two causes of action: (1) Declaratory Relief; and (2)
Promissory Estoppel. 
 
On September 29, 2023, the Plaintiff
filed a Motion for Summary Adjudication of Issues in the FAC. Defendant Zovinar
filed an opposition. The Plaintiff filed a reply on December 8, 2023. The court
continued the hearing on the motion from January 3, 2024, to January 11,
2024.  The matter is now before the
court. 
 
Plaintiff’s
Motion for summary adjudication
 
I.         Legal Standard
 
The purpose of a motion for
summary judgment or summary adjudication “is to provide courts with a mechanism
to cut through the parties’ pleadings in order to determine whether, despite
their allegations, trial is in fact necessary to resolve their dispute.”¿(Aguilar
v. Atl. Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal. 4th 826, 843.) “Code of Civil
Procedure section 437c, subdivision (c), requires the trial judge to grant
summary judgment if all the evidence submitted, and ‘all inferences reasonably
deducible from the evidence’ and uncontradicted by other inferences or
evidence, show that there is no triable issue as to any material fact and that
the moving party is entitled to judgment as a matter of law.” (Adler v.
Manor Healthcare Corp. (1992) 7 Cal.App.4th 1110, 1119.) Summary
adjudication may be granted as to one or more causes of action within an
action, or one or more claims for damages. (CCP § 437c(f).)¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿ 
¿¿¿¿¿ 
A defendant moving for summary
judgment bears two burdens: (1) the burden of production – presenting
admissible evidence, through material facts, sufficient to satisfy a directed
verdict standard; and (2) the burden of persuasion – the material facts
presented must persuade the court that the plaintiff cannot establish one or
more elements of a cause of action, or a complete defense vitiates the cause of
action. (CCP § 437c(p)(2);¿Aguilar,¿supra, 25 Cal.4th at p.
850-851.) A defendant may satisfy this burden by showing that the claim “cannot
be established” because of the lack of evidence on some essential element of
the claim.¿¿(Union Bank v. Superior Court (1995) 31 Cal.App.4th 574,
590.)¿¿Once the defendant meets this burden, the burden shifts to the plaintiff
to show that a “triable issue of one or more material facts exists as to that
cause of action or defense thereto.”¿(Ibid.)¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿ 
¿¿¿¿¿ 
“On ruling on a motion for summary
judgment, the court is to ‘liberally construe the evidence in support of the
party opposing summary judgment and resolve doubts concerning the evidence in
favor of that party.’” (Cheal v. El Camino Hospital¿(2014) 223
Cal.App.4th 736, 760.) On a summary judgment motion, the court must therefore
consider what inferences favoring the opposing party a factfinder could
reasonably draw from the evidence. While viewing the evidence in this manner,
the court must bear in mind that its primary function is to identify issues
rather than to determine issues. [Citation.]” (Binder v. Aetna Life Ins. Co.¿(1999)
75 Cal.App.4th¿832, 839.)¿¿¿¿¿¿ 
¿¿¿¿¿ 
Defeating summary judgment
requires only a single disputed material fact. (See CCP § 437c(c) [a motion for
summary judgment “shall be granted if all the papers submitted show that there
is no triable issue as to any material fact and that the moving party is
entitled to a judgment as a matter of law”] [italics added].) Thus, any
disputed material fact means the court must deny the motion – the court has no
discretion to grant summary judgment. (Zavala v. Arce (1997) 58
Cal.App.4th 915, 925 n. 8; Saldana v. Globe-Weis Systems Co. (1991) 233
Cal.App.3d 1505, 1511-1512.)¿¿¿¿ 
 
II.        Request for Judicial Notice
 
The court may take judicial notice of “official acts of the
legislative, executive, and judicial departments of the United States and of
any state of the United States,” “[r]ecords of (1) any court of this state or
(2) any court of record of the United States or of any state of the United
States,” and “[f]acts and propositions that are not reasonably subject to
dispute and are capable of immediate and accurate determination by resort to
sources of reasonably indisputable accuracy.” (Evid. Code § 452(c), (d), and
(h).) “Taking judicial notice of a document
is not the same as accepting the truth of its contents or accepting a
particular interpretation of its meaning.” (Joslin
v. H.A.S. Ins. Brokerage (1986) 184
Cal.App.3d 369, 374.)
 
Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant
requests judicial notice of the following: 
 
1)    
The Death Certificate of Harutiun Henry
Moukoian as attached hereto as Exhibit “1.”
 
2)    
The Affidavit of Death of Joint Tenant
reflecting the death of Zabel Moukoian and conveying title to the real property
located at 1620 Camulos Avenue, Glendale, California 91208 by operation of law
to Lermont Moukoian attached hereto as Exhibit “2.”
 
3)    
The Grant Deed dated May 12, 2012,
reflecting Lermont Moukoian’s conveyance of title to the real property located
at 1620 Camulos Avenue, Glendale, California 91208 to Lermont Moukoian, Trustee
of the Lermont Moukoian Living Trust attached hereto as Exhibit “3.”
 
4)    
The Grant Deed dated June 30, 2018,
conveying title to 1620 Camulos Avenue, Glendale, California 91208 from Lermont
Moukoian, Trustee of the Lermont Moukoian Living Trust to Harutiun Henry
Moukoian, Trustee, a married man as his sole and separate property attached
hereto as Exhibit “4.”
 
5)    
The Grant Deed dated September 5, 2018,
conveying title to 1620 Camulos Avenue, Glendale, California 91208 from Lermont
Moukoian, Trustee of the Lermont Moukoian Living Trust to Harutiun Henry
Moukoian, Trustee, a married man as his sole and separate property attached
hereto as Exhibit “5.”
 
6)    
The Deed of Trust recorded September
12, 2018, collateralizing a promissory note in the amount of $370,000 by
Harutiun Henry Moukoian secured by the real property located at 1620 Camulos Avenue,
Glendale, California 91208 attached hereto as Exhibit “6.”
 
7)    
The Grant Deed dated August 18, 2020,
conveying title to 1620 Camulos Avenue, Glendale, California 91208 from
Harutiun Henry Moukoian, a Married Man as his sole and separate property to Harutiun
Henry Moukoian and Suzie Z. Moukoian, Husband and Wife and Joint Tenants
attached hereto as Exhibit “7.” 
 
8)    
The Affidavit of Death of Joint Tenant
for Harutiun Henry Moukoian dated March 20, 2021, attached hereto as Exhibit
“8.” 
 
9)    
The Trust Transfer Deed dated May 22, 2021,
conveying title to 1620 Camulos Avenue, Glendale, California 91208 from Suzie
Z. Moukoian, aka Zovinar Suzie Postajian Moukoian, a widow, to Zovinar Suzie
Postajian Moukoian (also known as Suzie Z.P. Moukoian), Trustee of the Zov. S.
Postjian Moukoian Living Trust dated May 18, 2021, attached hereto as Exhibit
“9.” 
 
Plaintiff’s request
for judicial notice is granted. 
 
Defendant/Cross-Complainant
Zovinar requests judicial notice of the following: 
 
1)    
Exhibit 1: June
30, 2018, Grant Deed for the Glendale Property. 
 
2)    
Exhibit 2: September
12, 2018, Grant Deed for the Glendale Property.
 
3)    
Exhibit 3: September
16, 2020, Grant Deed for the Glendale Property.
 
4)    
Exhibit 4: Affidavit
of Death of Joint Tenant for the Glendale Property.
 
5)    
Exhibit 5: Trust
Transfer Deed dated May 18, 2021, for the Glendale Property.
 
6)    
Exhibit 6: Report
of Court Appointed Counsel Attorney Regarding Temporary Conservatorship of
Person and Estate of Lermont Moukoian. 
 
7)    
Exhibit 7: Lermont
Moukoian Living Trust. 
 
8)    
Exhibit 8: Amendment
to the Lermont Moukoian Living Trust. 
 
Defendant Zovinar’s
request for judicial notice is granted. 
 
III.      Defendant Zovinar’s Evidentiary Objections
 
“[W]hen evidentiary objections
are in proper form, a trial court must rule on the objections.” (Vineyard
Springs Estates v. Superior Court (2004) 120
Cal.App.4th 633, 642.) “Because the statute and legislative history are silent
as to the specific manner in which evidentiary objections must be made, we
presume that the Legislature intended no changes to the established procedure
for making evidentiary objections. Thus, the California Rules of Court govern.”
(Reid v. Google, Inc. (2010) 50 Cal.4th 512, 531.)
 
Here, Defendant
Zovidar’s objections are in an improper form and fail to follow the
requirements of the California Rules of Court (“CRC”).  CRC Rule 3.1354 requires that the objecting
party: 
 
(1) Identify the name
of the document in which the specific material objected to is located; 
(2) State the
exhibit, title, page, and line number of the material objected to; 
(3) Quote or set
forth the objectionable statement or material; and 
(4) State the grounds
for each objection to that statement or material. 
 
Furthermore, CRC Rule 3.1354(b)
and (c) require that objections be made in a separate document and that the
party submit a proposed order with places for the court to indicate whether it
sustains or overrules each objection and a place for the signature of the
judge.
 
Here, Defendant Zovinar failed
to quote or set forth the objectional statement or material. Moreover, no
proposed order for the objections was submitted. Nevertheless, the court
exercises its discretion and rules on Defendant Zovinar’s objections. 
 
defendant Zovinar’s
objections to the Declaration of Patrick Dejean:

 
Objection
Paragraph 3 is sustained as Patrick tries to prove the contents of a writing,
in violation of the Best Evidence Rule. 
 
Objections
to Paragraphs 4 and 5 are overruled as the statement does not lack foundation
and Defendant Zovinar fails to articulate what preliminary facts are missing
from his declaration as to render it inadmissible. 
 
Objections
to Paragraphs 6 and 7 are overruled as the statements in the paragraph are not
dependent on the content of the writing and instead are based on the
Declarant’s personal knowledge as Successor Trustee of Plaintiff’s Living
Trust.
 
defendant Zovinar’s
objections to the Declaration of Anna Dejean:
 
Objections
to Paragraphs 3, 4, 5, 11, 12, 14, and 22 are sustained due to hearsay. 
 
Objections
to Paragraphs 6, 9, 15, 16, 18, and 19, are sustained as the statements violate
the Best Evidence Rule. 
 
Objections
to Paragraphs 7, 13, 20, 21, and 23 are overruled as the objections lack merit.

 
Objection
to Paragraph 10 is overruled as the statement does not depend on the contents
of a writing and is based on the Declarant’s personal knowledge as Successor
Trustee of Plaintiff’s Living Trust.
 
defendant Zovinar’s
objections to the Declaration of Lermont Moukoian: 
 
Objections
to Paragraphs 3 and 14 are overruled as the statements do not depend on a
writing and are based on the Declarant’s personal knowledge as the Trustee of
the Living Trust. 
 
The
court declines to rule on objections to Paragraphs 7, 8, 9, 10, and 17, as the
objections are immaterial to the court’s disposition of this Motion. (CCP §
437c(q).)  All objections not ruled upon
are preserved for appeal. 
 
Objections
to Paragraphs 11, 22, 23, 25, 26, 28, 30, 31, 34, 36, 37, 45, 46, 48, 51, 57,
58, 59, 60, and 75 are overruled as the objection lacks merit. 
 
Objection
to Paragraph 13 is overruled as the statement does not depend on a writing and
is based on the Declarant’s personal knowledge as the husband of the deceased. 
 
Objection
to Paragraph 24 is sustained as the Declarant fails to provide facts as to how
he has personal knowledge that the Glendale Property was worth over
$1,000,000.00. 
 
Objections
to Paragraphs 27, 29, 32, 40, 41, 47, 50, 62, 63, 65, 66, 67, and 68 are
sustained due to hearsay. 
 
Objections
to Paragraphs 33, 43, 52, 70, 71, 72, and 74 are sustained as the paragraphs
try to prove the contents of a writing in violation of the Best Evidence Rule. 
 
Objection
to Paragraph 38 is sustained in part as to the following sentence: “Harut never
advised me to get the advice of counsel concerning my transfer of title to
Harut and did not obtain a Certificate of Independent Review.” 
 
Objection
to Paragraph 39 is sustained in part as to the sentence: “Harut told me he was
applying for a loan of $350,000.” 
 
Objection
to Paragraph 42 is overruled as the statement is based on the Declarant’s
personal knowledge and does not depend on the contents of the writing. 
 
Objection
to Paragraph 53 is similarly overruled as the statement goes to the intent
regarding the inclusion of a provision in the Plaintiff’s Living Trust and is
based on the Plaintiff’s personal knowledge as the Trustee of the Living Trust
and the statement is not dependent on the contents of the Living Trust. 
 
Objections
to Paragraphs 55, 56, and 64 are sustained as the statements fail to provide
facts that show that the Declarant had personal knowledge of those facts. 
 
Objection
to Paragraph 69 is sustained in part as to the sentence “Harut never responded
to Anna’s letter.” The objection is otherwise overruled as it lacks merit. 
 
defendant Zovinar’s
objections to the Declaration of Valerie F. Horn: 
 
Objection
to Paragraph 2 is overruled as Defendant Zovinar also relies on her deposition
testimony to oppose this Motion. (See Serri v. Santa Clara
University (2014) 226 Cal.App.4th 830, 856 [“Since Defendants had relied on
this very same evidence, there was no merit to these objections and they should
not have been sustained.”].) Further CRC, Rule 3.1116(b) requires that only the
relevant portion of any deposition transcript be included. 
 
Objections
3 and 4 are also overruled as they lack merit. 
 
IV.       Plaintiff’s Evidentiary Objections
 
Plaintiff’s
Evidentiary Objections to the Declaration of Zovinar Suzie Postajian Moukoian: 
 
Objections
Nos. 1, 2, 3, and 4 are sustained and the statement fails to show the Declarant
has personal knowledge of the facts alleged. 
 
Objections
Nos. 5, 6, and 7, 10, 14, and 16, are overruled as they lack merit. 
 
Objections
Nos. 8, 9, 11, 12, 13, and 17 are sustained due to hearsay.
 
Objection
15 is overruled as Exhibit D does not show U.S. Bank Checks. 
 
Plaintiff’s
Evidentiary Objections to Defendant Zovinar’s Request for Judicial Notice. 
 
Objections
Nos. 1, 2, and 3 are overruled. 
 
V.        Discussion
 
Plaintiff Lermont Moukoian (“Lermont” or
“Plaintiff”) individually and as Trustee of the Lermont Moukoian Living Trust
(the “Living Trust”), moves for summary adjudication of the following issues: 
 
Issue 1:
Lermont Moukoian individually and as Trustee of the Lermont Moukoian Living
Trust are entitled to judgment on their first cause of action to order up and
cancel the 4 Deeds at issue as a matter of law, canceling and expunging the
instruments that Defendants have improperly recorded on the Glendale Property. 
 
Issue 2:
Lermont Moukoian individually and as Trustee of the Lermont Moukoian Living
Trust is entitled to summary adjudication in their favor as to the fifth cause
of action to quiet title as a matter of law, quieting title in favor of
Plaintiffs, establishing that Plaintiffs are the sole owners of the Glendale
Property in Fee Simple as of February 3, 2022, and that Defendants have no
interest whatsoever in the Glendale Property. 
Issue 3:
Lermont Moukoian individually and as Trustee of the Lermont Moukoian Living
Trust is entitled to summary adjudication in their favor as to the eighth cause
of action to return property back to Lermont’s Trust pursuant to Cal. Prob.
Code § 850 as a matter of law, returning the Glendale Property back to Lermont
Moukoian, as Trustee of the Lermont Moukoian Living Trust, establishing that
Lermont, as the Trustee is the sole owner of the Glendale Property in Fee
Simple as of February 3, 2022, and that Defendants have no interest whatsoever
in the Glendale Property. 
 
Issue 4:
Lermont Moukoian individually and as Trustee of the Lermont Moukoian Living
Trust is entitled to summary adjudication in their favor as to the ninth cause
of action for declaratory relief as a matter of law establishing that
Plaintiffs are the sole owners of the Glendale Property in Fee Simple as of
February 3, 2022, and that Defendants have no interest whatsoever in the
Glendale Property. 
 
Defendant Zovinar
opposes the Motion. 
 
A.         Defendant
Zovinar’s Untimely Notice of Court Clarification and Failure to Expressly State
that Zovinar Opposes the Motion both Individually and in Her Representative
Capacity as an Administrator and Trustee for the other Named Defendants
 
On
November 29, 2023, an opposition to the Plaintiff’s Motion for Summary
Adjudication was filed by “Defendant Suzie Zovinar Moukoian.” The court notes
that Defendant Zovinar’s full name is given as “Zovinar Suzie Postajian
Moukoian” and not as “Suzie Zovinar Moukoian.” The opposition made no mention
that Zovinar opposed the motion both individually and in her capacity as the
Administrator of The Estate of Harutiun Moukoian and as Trustee of the Zov. S.
Postajian Moukoian Living Trust. Plaintiff filed a reply on December 8, 2023,
along with a Notice of Certain Defendants’ Non-Opposition as to Non-Opposing
Parties Zovinar Moukoian, as Administrator of the Estate of Harutiun Moukoian
(Deceased), and Zovinar Suzie Postajian Moukoian, as Trustee of the Zov S.
Postajian Moukoian Living Trust (“NonOpposing Defendants”).
 
On
December 11, 2023, the Defendants’ filed a “Notice of Court Clarification”
stating that “the document entitled ‘Defendant’s Opposition to Lermont
Moukoian’s Motion for Summary Adjudication’ and all supporting documents filed
by Defendants [sic] Zovinar Suzie Postajian Moukoian, is intended to include
all Defendants, specifically, The Estate of Harutiun Moukoian, Zovinar Suzie
Postajian Moukoian, individually and as Trustee of the Zov S. Postajian
Moukoian Living Trust.” Defendant argues that because Zovinar is the
Administrator of The Estate of Harutiun Moukoian and is the Trustee of the Zov
S. Postajian Moukoian Living Trust, the named Defendants are one and the same. 
 
The
Plaintiff disputes this contention and filed an opposition to the “Notice of
Court Clarification” and a Supplemental Opposition to the “Notice of Court
Clarification.” “ ‘A probate or trust estate is not a legal entity; it is
simply a collection of assets and liabilities. As such, it has no capacity to
sue or be sued, or to defend an action. Any litigation must be maintained by,
or against, the executor or administrator of the estate.’ ” (Galdjie v. Darwish (2003) 113 Cal.App.4th 1331, 1344
citing Weil
& Brown, Cal. Practice Guide: Civil Procedure Before Trial (The Rutter
Group 2003) ¶ 2:126, p. 2–36.) “At common law, where a cause of action
is prosecuted on behalf of an express trust, the trustee is the real party in
interest because the trustee has legal title to the cause.” (Saks v. Damon Raike & Co. (1992) 7 Cal.App.4th
419, 427.) 
 
The court agrees that Zovinar’s
Opposition was defective because it provided no notice that she was opposing
the motion both individually in her capacity as the Administrator of The Estate
of Harutiun Moukoian and as the Trustee of the Zov S. Postajian Moukoian Living
Trust. First, there is no authority permitting a party to file a “Notice of
Court Clarification” in opposition to a motion for summary adjudication.
Secondly, no Notice of Errata has been made by Defendants[1]. (CCP § 473(a).)
 
An opposition to a motion for summary
adjudication “shall be served and filed not less than 14 days preceding the
noticed or continued date of hearing, unless the court for good cause orders
otherwise.” (CCP, § 437c(b)(2). Here, the “Notice of Court Clarification” was
not served until three days after Plaintiff had filed his reply. “A trial court
has broad discretion under rule 3.1300(d) of the Rules of Court to refuse to
consider papers served and filed beyond the deadline without a prior court
order finding good cause for late submission.” (Bozzi v. Nordstrom, Inc.
(2010) 186 Cal.App.4th 755, 765.) 
 
However, the Defendants did not file any
late papers but made a “clarification” that Zovinar’s opposition was filed not
just in her capacity but also in her representative capacity as an
administrator and trustee. In Choi v. Sagemark Consulting
(2017) 18 Cal.App.5th 308, at a hearing for a motion for summary judgment, the
plaintiffs filed a notice of errata seeking
to correct an inadvertent omission of two deposition exhibits from
evidence filed in support of their opposition to the motion and requested leave
to amend their separate statement in opposition. (Id. at p. 317.) The
trial court, noting the plaintiffs’ failure to
comply with the statutory requirements of a summary judgment motion and the
unfairness to the defendants, denied the request.  The appellate court found that the trial
court did not abuse its discretion in refusing both requests and in rejecting
plaintiffs' arguments that relied on the late-filed evidence. (Id. at p.
321.) In Mackey v. Board of Trustees of California
State University (2019) 31 Cal.App.5th 640, the appellate court found that the trial court did not abuse its
discretion in excluding the plaintiffs’ declaration filed in opposition to the
motion for summary judgment because they were filed four days after the
defendant had filed its reply and three days before the hearing. (Id. at
p. 657.) Despite the reason given for the omissions, was an “upload error,” the
trial court refused to consider the declarations because the “plaintiffs
did not seek a continuance, and there was no abuse of discretion in excluding
declarations filed after the reply.” (Ibid.) 
 
Here, unlike the
plaintiffs in Choi and Makey, the Defendants are not seeking to submit new
evidence but instead are seeking to correct a mistake or omission regarding the
names of the parties opposing Plaintiff’s Motion.  Thus, the court may properly treat the
“Notice of Court Clarification” as a Notice of Errata. More importantly,
Plaintiff has made no showing that he is prejudiced by the “Notice of Court
Clarification.” Therefore, the court on its own Motion treats the “Notice of
Court Clarification” as a Notice of Errata to correct omissions in Defendant’s
opposition and reflect the fact that Defendant Zovinar in her individual and in
her representative capacity as Administrator of The Estate of Harutiun Moukoian
and as Trustee of the Zov. S. Postajian Moukoian Living Trust is opposing
Plaintiff’s Motion. (See CCP § 473(a).) 
 
B.        Summary
of Facts 
 
The following facts are
undisputed unless otherwise noted by citation to the evidence. In 1983,
Plaintiff Lermont and his wife acquired title to a property located in
Glendale, California (the “Glendale Property.” (Undisputed Material Fact
(“UMF”) 12.) Sometime after the death of his wife, on May 12, 2012, Lermont
conveyed title of the Glendale Property to The Lermont Moukoian
Living Trust, UTD May 12, 2012 (the “Living Trust”) with Lermont being the Trustee.
(UMF 14; see also Plaintiff’s Request for Judicial Notice (“PRJN”) Ex. 3;
Defendant’s request for Judicial Notice (“DRJN”) Ex. 7.) Until May 2018, the Plaintiff owned the Glendale Property free and
clear. (UMF 22.) 
 
In May 2011, Plaintiff’s son, Albert
Moukoian (“Albert”), and his wife moved into the Glendale
Property and lived with Plaintiff. (UMF 15.) Albert and his wife eventually had
four children, but around April 2018 Plaintiff wanted Albert to move out of the
Glendale Property. (UMF 16, 19.) The Plaintiff reached out to his other son,
Harutiun Henry Moukoian (“Harut”), to assist in getting Albert to move out of
the Glendale Property. (UMF 3, 20, 23.) In a meeting that took place in mid-May
2018, the parties do not dispute that Plaintiff told Harut that he wanted
Albert and his family to move out, but because Albert was not working and had
four children and a wife, he wanted to financially help Albert and his family
move out. (UMF 23; see also Lermont Decl. ¶ 23.) 
 
The parties dispute
what specific agreement was reached between Plaintiff and Harut, regarding the
Glendale Property. Unfortunately, Harut died on February 6, 2021. (UMF 4.)
Harut was married to Defendant Zovinar. (UMF 5.) According to Plaintiff, the
terms of the oral agreement regarding the Glendale Property are as follows: 
 
a)    
The Plaintiff would transfer title to
Harut temporarily as an accommodation and conditional transfer of legal title
so that Harut could obtain a loan collateralized by the Glendale Property to
fund Albert’s move out money. 
b)    
After Albert vacated from the Glendale
Property, Harut and his family would move into the Glendale Property with
Plaintiff and reside there. 
 
c)    
Instead of paying rent, Harut would pay
the mortgage, taxes and insurance for the Glendale Property, and pay off the
loan obtained to fund Albert’s move out money. 
 
d)    
Once the loan was obtained and Albert
had moved out and Harut and his family moved into the Glendale Property, Harut
would transfer title to the Glendale Property back to Plaintiff, as Trustee of
Lermont’s Living Trust. 
 
(Lermont Decl. ¶ 25.)

 
Zovinar disputes that
the agreement required Harut to reconvey the title to the Glendale Property
back to Plaintiff. (Suzie Moukoian Decl. (hereinafter “Zovinar Decl.”) ¶¶ 5,
10.) According to Zovinar, the agreement was that a loan would be taken out
against the Glendale Property and part of the proceeds would be used to
renovate the Glendale Property and pay Albert to move out while Harut and
Zovinar would be responsible for maintenance and upkeep. (Zovinar Decl. ¶ 5.) 
 
Plaintiff maintains
that on July 24, 2018, his daughter Anna Dejean (“Anna”), informed Harut that
Plaintiff had a Living Trust and she had power of attorney for Plaintiff. (Anna
Decl. ¶ 3.)
 
The Plaintiff’s
Living Trust stated as follows: 
 
SUCCESSOR
TRUSTEE INSTRUCTIONS
 
To the Successor Trustee’s Attention:
LERMONT MOUKOIAN wishes to give to the successor Trustee
the following instructions for administrative items:
 
I, LERMONT MOUKOIAN, hereby
direct that the validity of any sale, transfer of
Titles / ownerships, or mortgaging of all or any portion my Trust Estate during
my lifetime shall require the notarized approval and
consent of both of the following Successor Trustees: 
1) Anna Dejean, and
2) Patrick Dejean.
 
(Lermont
Decl. ¶¶ 52, 53, Ex. 1 at p. 23; DRJN Ex. 7 at p. 23.)
 
Grant Deed No. 1 was
executed on June 30, 2018, wherein Plaintiff as Trustee of Living Trust passed
the title of the Glendale Property to Harut as “trustee of the Harutiun Henry
Moukoian, a married man as his sole and separate property.” (PRJN Ex. 4.) On
July 2, 2018, Grant Deed No. 1 was recorded with the Los Angeles County
Recorder’s Office as Instrument No. 20180661851. (UMF 32, 37.)
 
On September 5, 2018,
Grant Deed No. 2 was executed wherein Plaintiff as the Trustee of the Living
Trust granted the Glendale Property to Harut, as a married man as his sole and
separate property. (PRJN Ex. 5.) On September 12, 2018, Grant Deed No. 2 was
recorded. (PRJN Ex. 5.) 
On September 22,
2020, Grant Deed No. 3 was recorded, wherein Harut transferred his interest in
the Glendale Property to Harut and his wife, Zovinar, husband and wife as joint
tenants. (PRJN Ex. 7.)
 
On June 9, 2021,
Grant Deed No. 4 was recorded, wherein Zovinar, as widow, transferred the title
of the Glendale Property to Zov S. Postajian Moukoian Living Trust. (UMF 72;
PRJN Ex. 9.)
 
Grant Deed No. 1
stated: “THERE IS NO CONSIDERATION FOR THIS TRANSFER. There is zero
($0) Documentary Transfer Tax due. This is a bona fide gift and the grantor
received nothing in return, Revenue and Taxation Code § 11911.” (PRJN Ex. 4
[bold and all caps in original].) 
 
Grant Deed No. 2 has
a cross “[X]” over the designation that states “Exempt from transfer tax,
Reason: ‘This is a bonafide gift and the grantor received nothing in return, R
& T 11911.” (PRJN Ex. 5.) 
 
Grant Deed No. 3
contains a stamp stating: “This is a bonafide gift and the grantor received
nothing in return, R&T 11911.” (PRJN Ex. 7.) 
 
Grant Deed No. 4
states “This conveyance transfers grantor’s interest into her Revocable Living
Trust, R & T 11930.” (PRJN Ex. 9.) 
 
Zovinar disputes any
contention that Plaintiff’s transfer of the Glendale Property was without
consideration because Plaintiff wanted Albert to move out, but Albert could not
do so financially. Accordingly, Harut received a loan with the Glendale
Property as collateral, paid Albert to move out, and used the remaining loan
proceeds to repair and remodel the Glendale Property for the Plaintiff’s
benefit. (Perryman Decl. Ex. A [Lermont Depo. at pp. 36-23-39; 42:23-43:7],
Zovinar Decl. ¶¶ 8, 11; PRJN Ex. 6.) 
 
The following facts
are undisputed. On September 12, 2018, a Deed of Trust collateralizing a
promissory note signed by Harutiun Henry Moukoian in the amount of $370,000.00
was recorded with the Los Angeles County Recorder’s Office, Instrument No.
20180935461. (UMF 50; PRJN Ex. 6.) On September 25, 2018, Harut paid Albert a
total of $250,000.00 to move out. (UMF 51, 53.) On September 26, 2018, Albert
and his family moved out of the Glendale Property. (UMF 54.) In executing Grant
Deeds Nos. 1 and 2, Harut failed to obtain the notarized approval and consent
of Anna and her husband, Patrick Dejean (“Patrick”). (UMF 59, 60.)
 
C.        First Cause of Action – Cancellation of
Instruments
 
Under Civ. Code § 3412,
a “written instrument in respect to which there is a reasonable apprehension
that if left outstanding it may cause serious injury to a person against whom
it is void or voidable, may, upon his application, be so adjudged, and ordered
to be delivered up or cancelled.” “ ‘To prevail on a claim to cancel an
instrument, a plaintiff must prove (1) the instrument is void or voidable due
to, for example, fraud; and (2) there is a reasonable apprehension of serious
injury including pecuniary loss or the prejudicial alteration of one's
position.’ ” (Thompson v. Ioane (2017) 11 Cal.App.5th 1180, 1193–1194
[internal citations omitted].)
 
Plaintiff seeks cancellation of Grant
Deed Nos. 1 to 4 on the basis that Plaintiff’s Living Trust expressly
prohibited the transfer of any Trust asserts without the notarized approval and
consent to the Successor Trustees, Anna and Patrick. (Lermont Decl. Ex. 1 at p.
23; DRJN Ex. 7 at p. 23.)
 
By the express provisions of the
Successor Trustee Instructions, “during [the] lifetime” of Plaintiff, “the
validity of any sale, transfer of Titles / ownerships, or mortgaging of all or
any portion my Trust” required “the notarized approval and consent of” Anna and
her husband, Patrick, in order for the transfer of any property to be valid.
(Lermont Decl. Ex. 1 at p. 23; DRJN Ex. 7 at p. 23.)
 
Defendant Zovinar
does not dispute that Harut failed to obtain the notarized approval and consent
of Anna and Patrick prior to recording Grant Deed Nos. 1 and 2. (UMF 59, 60.)
Therefore, Plaintiff has met his burden of showing that his transfer of the
Glendale Property to Harut was invalid because there was no notarized consent
from Anna and Patrick as required by the Living Trust. “ ‘A void deed passes no
title, and cannot be made the foundation of a good title even under the
equitable doctrine of bona fide purchase.’ ” (Erickson v. Bohne
(1955) 130 Cal.App.2d 553, 557.) As Grant Deeds Nos. 1 and 2 appear void, Grant
Deed Nos. 3 and 4 are also void. The burden shifts to the Defendant to show why
Grant Deeds Nos. 1 to 4 are valid and should not be cancelled. 
 
Defendant Zovinar
argues that Grant Deeds Nos. 1 to 4 are valid for four reasons: 1) Plaintiff
maintained authority to transfer the Property to anyone of his own choosing
without the consent of the Successor Trustees of the Lermont Moukoian Living
Trust; 2) Plaintiff independently and under his own free will transferred title
to the Property to Harut; 3) Disputed Material issues relating to the terms of
the agreement; and 4) Plaintiff’s claims are time-barred.  The court disagrees and will address each
argument in turn.   
 
First, although Defendant Zovinar asserts
that Plaintiff as the Trustee of the Living Trust had the authority to transfer
ownership of the Glendale Property to anyone (Opp. 8-10), she cites to no evidence
or legal authority in support of this assertion. She argues that because the
Living Trust is revocable, Lermont retained the authority to revoke the trust
at any time during his lifetime. (Prob. Code, § 15401.) However, Defendant
Zovinar fails to show that Plaintiff terminated the trust pursuant to the
“method of revocation provided by the trust instrument.”  (Prob. Code, § 15401(a) (1-2).) 
 
Second, Defendant Zovinar asserts that
Plaintiff independently transferred the Property to Harut, and he was not
unduly influenced to do so.  (Opp. 10-12.)  She again fails, however, to cite any legal
authority to show that compliance with Successor Trustee Instructions was not
required or was excused such that the transfer of Grant Deed Nos. 1 and 2 was
valid. Per the express terms of the Living Trust, Harut and Plaintiff were
required to obtain Anna and Patrick’s notarized approval and consent for the
transfer of the Glendale Property to Harut to be valid if the transfer occurred
during Plaintiff’s lifetime. The prohibition on the sale and transfer of any
portion of the Trust assets without the notarized approval and consent of Anna
and Patrick, as outlined in the Successor Trustee Instructions, did not apply
upon Plaintiff’s death but “during my lifetime.” (Lermont Decl. Ex. 1 at p. 23,
DRJN Ex. 7 at p. 23.) 
 
As Trustee of the Living Trust, Plaintiff
did not have unbridled power to dispose or transfer the Trust’s assets,
including the Glendale Property.  The
Plaintiff’s powers as Trustee of the Living Trust are outlined in Section C.
entitled “Trustee Powers” of the Living Trust. (Lermont Decl. Ex. 1 at pp.
11-16, DRJN Ex. 7 at pp. 11-16.) The Living Trust confers upon the Trustee the
following rights: 
 
To
sell, at public or private sale, for cash or on credit, and upon such terms as
it may deem property, any property at any time held by it. As used in this
paragraph, the term “sell” shall mean and include: convey, exchange, convert,
improve, repair, partition, divide, allot, subdivide, create restrictions,
easements or other servitudes upon, operate and control. 
 
[.
. .]
 
Notwithstanding
any other provisions of this Trust Agreement, during the lifetime of Settlor,
to make one or more distributions from the Trust, from either income or
principal, as annual gifts provided that as each donee, such gifts do not
exceed the amount that is wholly excludable from taxable gifts under Section
2503 of the Internal Revenue Code. . . .
 
(Lermont Decl. Ex. 1 at pp. 11-16, DRJN
Ex. 7 at pp. 11-16.)
 
Here, Defendant Zovinar provided no evidence
that Plaintiff’s transfer of the Glendale Property to Harut was within the
Trustee’s powers to do as set out in the Living Trust. She fails to prove that
the transfer of the Glendale Property was a sale for cash or credit or that
Harut received the Glendale Property as a donee and in compliance with the limitations
set forth in the Living Trust. Similarly, Defendant Zovinar fails to set forth
any admissible evidence to show that Plaintiff’s transfer of the Glendale
Property was supported by consideration or that Harut was a bona fide purchaser
for value.
 
Third, Defendant Zovinar argues that
there are disputed issues regarding the terms of the agreement between
Plaintiff and Harut.  She argues that the
term that “after Harut and his family moved into the Glendale Property, Harut
would transfer title back to Lermont” is not supported by the grant deeds he
executed.  (Opp. 13.)   This
argument is not relevant to the issue that Grant Deed Nos. 1 to 4 must be
cancelled because Plaintiff’s Living Trust expressly prohibited the transfer of
any Trust asserts without the notarized approval and consent to the Successor
Trustees, Anna and Patrick. (Lermont Decl. Ex. 1 at p. 23; DRJN Ex. 7 at p.
23.)
 
Finally, Defendant Zovinar argues that
all of Plaintiff’s claims are time-barred because the oral agreement between
Plaintiff and Harut occurred in June 2018, but Plaintiff did not file suit
until February 2, 2022. (Opp. 13-17.)  “Ordinarily a suit to set aside and cancel a void instrument is
governed by section 343 of the Code of Civil Procedure. [Citation.] However,
when the gravamen of the cause of action stated involves fraud or a mistake,
Code of Civil Procedure, section 338(4) is the statute of limitations
applicable and the cause of action is not deemed to have accrued until the
discovery of the facts constituting the mistake.” (Zakaessian v. Zakaessian, (1945) 70 Cal.App. 2d 721, 725.) Here, Defendant Zovinar fails to show that a
four-year statute of limitations applies to Plaintiff’s first cause of action
or that the cause of action is time-barred. 
 
Plaintiff further argues that because the
Grant Deeds Nos. 1 and 2 are void, so is the Deed of Trust. (See Ecrickaon,
supra, 130 Cal.App.3n at p. 557.) 

Although the court agrees that Plaintiff has met its burden of showing that
Grant Deeds Nos. 1 to 4 should be cancelled as they are void, Plaintiff has
failed to show that he is entitled to cancellation despite not seeking
cancellation of the Deed of Trust recorded September 12, 2018, in which Harut
as borrower obtain a loan of $370,000 with the Glendale Property being listed
as collateral.  (PRJN Ex. 6.) “The fact that a deed of trust conveys a more limited interest in
property than a grant deed [citation] does not mean that forged documents
involving that interest should be treated differently than documents involving
other interests. Indeed, decisional authority relative to forged
instruments other than grant deeds uniformly hold such instruments to be void.”
(Wutzke v. Bill Reid Painting Serv. (1984) 151 Cal.App.3d 36, 43.) “In
short, there is no reason in law or policy why the principle that forged
documents should not apply to any instrument through which an interest in
property is passed.” (Id. at pp. 43-44.) Here, Plaintiff alleged that
Plaintiff’s transfer of the Glendale Property to Harut was invalid because the
terms of the Living Trust prohibited the Transfer and Harut’s failed status as
a bona fide purchaser for value who took without notice by his exercise of
undue influence, fraud, and bad faith in procuring Grant Deed Nos. 1 and 2 from
Lermont without consideration. (See Reply at pp. 10:20-11:5.) 
 
While Plaintiff’s logic holds that the
Deed of Trust dated September 12, 2018, is void as the Grant Deed used to
obtain the Deed of Trust, is void, Plaintiff fails to show that he did not
obtain a benefit from Harut’s loan, including proceeds from the loan being used
to repair the Glendale Property. Plaintiff does not dispute that he knew the
transfer of the Glendale Property to Harut’s name would be used to secure a
loan in Harut’s name and the money would be used to help Albert and his family
move out and pay for repairs and improvements on the Glendale Property.
“Ordinarily, in the cancellation or rescission of contracts, it is incumbent
upon the parties seeking rescission to restore everything of value that
has been received.” (Weger v. Rocha (1934) 138 Cal.App.109, 116.) Because
Plaintiff was aware of the benefits that would be obtained from Harut securing
a loan and those benefits were received, triable issues of fact exist as
whether Plaintiff may be estopped from denying the validity of the Deed of Trust.
(See Wutzke v. Bill Reid Painting Service, Inc. (1984) 151 Cal.App.3d 36, 44.) This raises a triable
issue of fact as to whether it would be equitable to cancel Grant Deeds 1 and 2
and render the Deed of Trust invalid. 
 
Since Plaintiff is
not seeking cancellation of the Deed of Trust dated September 12, 2018, and
because Plaintiff fails to show that he did not secure a benefit under the loan
obtained from the Deed of Trust or that such benefit has been “restored” the
court denies Plaintiff’s request for summary adjudication as to the first cause
of action because triable issues of fact exist.
 
D.        Fifth Cause of Action – Quiet Title
 
Actions to quiet title
are governed by Civ. Code § 761.010 et seq. A verified complaint for quiet title must
contain (1) a description of the property, (2) the title of the plaintiff as to
which a determination is sought and its basis, (3) the adverse claims to the
title of the plaintiff against which a determination is sought, (4) the date as
to which determination is sought, and (5) a prayer for determination of title.
(Code Civ. Proc., § 761.020.) To prevail in an action to quiet title, the
plaintiff must prove title superior to that of defendant. (Gerhard v.
Stephens (1968) 68 Cal.2d 864, 918.) “A quiet title judgment cannot be
entered in the absence of all parties with an interest in the property at
issue.” (Ranch at the Falls LLC v. O'Neal (2019) 38 Cal.App.5th
155, 173.) 
 
“The plaintiff may recover only upon the
strength of his or her own title, however, and not upon the weakness of the
defendant's title. Where the plaintiff relies on a paper title alone he must
trace his title (1) to the government; or (2) to grantor in possession at the
time of the conveyance to the plaintiff; or (3) to a source common to the
chains of title of plaintiff and defendant. [Citations.] The burden of proof is
upon the plaintiff. [Citation]” (Ernie v. Trinity Lutheran
Church (1959) 51 Cal.2d 702, 706.)
 
“Where a complaint seeks to quiet title
to real property and cancel an instrument and both claims are based on the same
facts, it is said that the cancellation claim is incidental to the claim to
quiet title such that the action asserts only one claim.” (Deutsche Bank National Trust Co. v. Pyle (2017) 13
Cal.App.5th 513, 523 (Deutsche Bank).) “Stated differently, a complaint alleging facts
authorizing relief both to quiet title and to cancel an instrument may state
but one cause of action, ‘this does not mean that the cause of action is
necessarily one to quiet title. Quieting title is the relief granted once a
court determines that title belongs in plaintiff. In determining that question,
where a contract exists between the parties, the court must first find
something wrong with that contract. In other words, in such a case, the
plaintiff must show he has a substantive right to relief before he can be
granted any relief at all. Plaintiff must show a right to rescind before he can
be granted the right to quiet his title.’ [Citation.]” (Id. at pp.
523-524; see also Weeden v. Hoffman (2021) 70
Cal.App.5th 269, 292–293 [“The Weedens are seeking to quiet title and also to
have the instrument under which Hoffman claims an interest in the Property
declared void; these comprise a single cause of action”]; Leeper v. Beltrami (1959) 53 Cal.2d 195, 216 [“It is
apparent that the quiet title suit was completely dependent upon plaintiffs'
success in attacking the trust deed. The Court in the Thompson case was
undoubtedly correct in holding that facts alleged in a complaint authorizing
relief both to quiet title and to cancel an instrument state but one cause of
action. That is undoubtedly the law”].)
 
Here, Plaintiff’s FAC alleged that
Federal Home Loan Mortgage Company (“Federal Loan”) had a beneficial interest
in the Glendale Property because it secured the loan provided to Harut via the
Glendale Property as reflected in the Deed of Trust recorded on September 12,
2018. 
On April 28, 2023, Plaintiff dismissed
Federal Loan as a Defendant. A claim for quiet title is meant to “finally
settle and determine, as between the parties, all conflicting claims to the
property in controversy, and to decree to each such interest or estate therein
as he may be entitled to.” (Yuba Inv. Co. v. Yuba
Consolidated Gold Fields (1926) 199 Cal. 203, 209; Deutsche Bank Nat'l Trust Co. v. Pyle (2017) 13 Cal.App.5th 513, 524.) 
Without Federal Loan as a
Defendant (or the successor Trustee who holds title to the Deed of Trust), the
court cannot determine all of the parties' beneficial interest in the Glendale
Property. Moreover, Plaintiff fails to explain how Plaintiff can obtain the
relief requested without the Cancellation of the Deed of Trust. Before entering a judgment quieting title, the
court must “examine into and determine the plaintiff's title against the
claims of all the defendants.” (CCP, § 764.010 [italics added].) Without
a finding that Federal Loan has no valid interest in the Glendale Property or
arguments as to why the Deed of Trust is void as a matter of law, the court is
precluded from granting Plaintiff’s claim for quiet title. Therefore, Plaintiff
has failed to meet his initial burden of showing he is entitled to a judgment
for quiet title. 


Therefore, summary adjudication is denied
as to the fifth cause of action for quiet title. 
 
E.        Eighth
Cause of Action – Return Trust Property Pursuant to Prob.  Code § 850
 
Probate Code § 850(a)(3) states, in relevant part: 
(a) The following
persons may file a petition requesting that the court make an order under this
part:
 
[.
. .]
(A) Where the trustee is in possession
of, or holds title to, real or personal property, and the property, or some
interest, is claimed to belong to another.
(B) Where the trustee has a claim to real
or personal property, title to or possession of which is held by another.
(C) Where the property of the trust is
claimed to be subject to a creditor of the settlor of the trust.
(b) The petition shall set forth facts
upon which the claim is based.
 
“Section 850 specifically contemplates that a trustee
may bring an action to recover trust property that is held by anyone other than
the trustee; it does not limit recovery to a certain class of people, nor does
it purport to prevent a trustee from recovering trust assets from third parties
who wrongfully possess them.” (Dudek v. Dudek (2019)
34 Cal.App.5th 154, 170.) 
Probate Code § 859 “unambiguously states, ‘If a court
finds that a person has in bad faith wrongfully taken, concealed, or disposed
of property belonging to the estate of a decedent, conservatee, minor, or
trust, the person shall be liable for twice the value of the property recovered
by an action under this part.’ As noted above, when it is established that
property is recoverable under section 850 and that the party who took the
property acted in bad faith, then the section 859 penalty may be imposed.” (Estate of Kraus (2010) 184 Cal.App.4th 103, 117.) 
Here, the Plaintiff has shown that Plaintiff lacked
the authority to transfer the title of the Glendale Property without the notarized
consent to Anna and Patrick. (Lermont Decl. Ex. 1 at p. 23; DRJN Ex. 7 at p.
23.) Moreover, Plaintiff has also shown that Harut was not a bona fide purchase
or value as Grant Deed Nos. 1 and 2 show that no consideration was provided.
(PRJN Ex. 4, 5.) Moreover, Plaintiff provides evidence that on January 11,
2019, Anna informed Harut that the transfer of the Glendale Property was
invalid as Anna and Patrick’s consent was required but not obtained. (Anna Decl.
¶ 15, Ex. 1.) 
As Plaintiff has met his burden of showing that
Defendants acted in bad faith in transferring the Glendale Property and failed
to return the Property to Plaintiff’s Trust, the burden shifts to Defendant
Zovinar to show why summary adjudication should not be granted. 
Defendant Zovinar argues on that summary adjudication
of the eighth causes of action should be denied because the claim is time-barred
and the doctrine of latches applies. She fails, however, to show that
Plaintiff’s eighth cause of action is barred by the doctrine of latches as she
presents no evidence to show Plaintiff unjustifiably delayed in bringing this
action. Moreover, CCP §§ 318 and 319 provide a five-year statute of limitations
for actions involving title to or possession of real property, thus making
Plaintiff’s action timely and not barred by the statute of limitations. 
As Defendant Zovinar fails to show that a triable
issue of material fact exists regarding the eighth cause of action, summary
adjudication is granted as to this claim. 
F.
       Ninth Cause of Action – Declaratory
Relief
 
Per the FAC,
Plaintiff seeks declaratory relief regarding the following: 
 

“Specifically whether the transfer deeds from Lermont
     Moukoian as Trustee of the Lermont Trust to Harut are null, void, and
     unenforceable and the deeds between Defendant Zovinar Suzie Postajian
     Moukoian and Defendant Zovinar Suzie Postajian Moukoian as Trustee of the
     Zov S. Postajian Moukoian Living Trust are null, void, and unenforceable
     because, among other reasons, each of the four deeds was unauthorized by
     the Successor Trustees of Lermont’s trust and procured by undue influence
     and misrepresentations.” (FAC ¶ 87.)

 

“Under Code of Civil Procedure §1060, Plaintiff is
     entitled to a judicial declaration of the rights and duties of the
     respective parties under the transfer deeds, namely that there are none
     and no one but Plaintiff has any rights in the Glendale Property. A void
     deed passes no title and cannot be made the foundation of a good title
     even under the equitable doctrine of bona fide purchase.” (FAC ¶ 88.)

 
As the ninth cause of
action seeks a declaration of the parties’ rights and duties regarding the
title and ownership of the Glendale Property, the ninth cause of action is duplicative
of the first and fifth causes of action. 
 
Where a request for declaratory relief
relies upon the same facts as a claim to quiet title and cancel a written
instrument, “they will be treated as one.” (Tiedje v. Aluminum Taper Mill.
Co. (1956) 46 Cal.2d 450, 452 [treating
claims for declaratory relief, quiet title, and the voiding of an illegal stock
sale as a single cause of action.].)
 
As summary adjudication
was denied as to the first and fifth cause of action, the court also denies
summary adjudication as to the ninth cause of action. 
 
Conclusion
 
Plaintiff’s
Motion for Summary Adjudication is granted as to the eighth cause of action and
denied as to the first, fifth, and ninth causes of action. 
 
Plaintiff to give notice. 


