  Case Number:  20STCV07287    Hearing Date:   September 5, 2024    Dept:  73 9/05/2024 
Dept. 73 
Hon. Rolf
Treu, Judge presiding 
 
CHICAGO TITLE INSURANCE COMPANY v. SOLUTION4HOME.COM,
LLC, et al. (20STCV07287) 
 
Counsel for
Plaintiff:  Joseph Dorfman (Fidelity National Law Group) 
Counsel for
Defendants: N/A
 
PLAINTIFF’S MOTION TO VACATE DISMISSAL AND ENTER
JUDGMENT (filed 6/14/2024) 
 
TENTATIVE RULING 
 
The Court GRANTS Plaintiff’s Motion to Vacate
Dismissal and Enter Judgment.  
 
I. BACKGROUND
 
On February
21, 2020, Plaintiff Chicago Title Insurance Company filed the instant action
against Defendants Solution4Home.com, LLC, a limited liability company fdba
Giant Earth Property, LLC; Gene Choe aka Gene Wook Choe aka Eugene Wook Choe
aka Jin C. Choe aka Jin Hoon Choe aka Jin Chan Choe; April Cabuena aka April L.
Cabuena aka April Lou Cabuena; Victor Matthews; Victor Hammond; Motsoasele Nkhereanye;
Gold Mine Investments and Development Corporation; and Sonny Seyedi.  
 
The Complaint alleges that in 1999, Sheila Fletcher inherited
the subject real property located at 214 Horizon Avenue, Venice, CA 90291.
Fletcher was defrauded which resulted in title insurance claims made by
Plaintiff’s insureds. Plaintiff incurred damages resolving its insureds claims
and sought recovery in the instant action.
 
Defendants Solution4Home.com,
LLC, a limited liability company fdba Giant Earth Property, LLC; Gene Choe aka
Gene Wook Choe aka Eugene Wook Choe aka Jin C. Choe aka Jin Hoon Choe aka Jin
Chan Choe (collectively “Defendants”) settled with Plaintiff under a
Stipulation for Entry of Judgment (the “Stipulation”).  Pursuant
to the terms of the Stipulation, Defendants agreed to pay Plaintiff $75,000
under a payment plan. 
 
On March 21, 2022, the Court ordered
Defendants dismissed without prejudice, but the Court retained jurisdiction to
make orders to enforce any and all terms of settlement, including judgment,
pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure § 664.6.
 
On
June 14, 2024, Plaintiff filed the
instant Motion to Vacate Dismissal and Enter Judgment against Defendants.  
 
No opposition has been filed. 
 
II.ANALYSIS
 
A.     Legal
Standard
 
CCP section 664.6 provides that “[i]f
parties to pending litigation stipulate, in a writing signed by the parties
outside the presence of the court or orally before the court, for settlement of
the case, or part thereof, the court, upon motion, may enter judgment pursuant
to the terms of the settlement.  If requested by the parties, the court
may retain jurisdiction over the parties to enforce the settlement until
performance in full of the terms of the settlement.”  (Code Civ. Proc., §
664.6.)
 
B.    
Judicial Notice
 
Plaintiff requests judicial notice of: (1) The Minute Order dated
March 21, 2022, and (2) The Order Approving Joint Stipulation for Entry of
Judgment and Order for the Court to Retain Jurisdiction to Enforce Parties
Stipulation for Entry of Judgment Pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure Section
664.6.
 
The court may
take judicial notice of “official acts of the legislative, executive, and
judicial departments of the United States and of any state of the United
States,” “[r]ecords of (1) any court of this state or (2) any court of record
of the United States or of any state of the United States,” and “[f]acts and
propositions that are not reasonably subject to dispute and are capable of
immediate and accurate determination by resort to sources of reasonably
indisputable accuracy.” (Evid. Code § 452, subds. (c), (d), and (h).) The Court
may take judicial notice of its own file. (See Stepan v. Garcia (1974) 43 Cal.App.3d 497, 500.)
 
The Court
grants Plaintiff’s requests for judicial notice.
 
C.    
Discussion
 
Plaintiff argues that Defendant
failed to fulfill the obligations agreed to in the parties’ Stipulation. As a
result, Plaintiff requests that the Court vacate the dismissal previously
entered in this case pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure, section 664.6, and
enter Judgment in the amount of $23,370 pursuant to the terms of the written
Stipulation. 
 
In support of its motion,
Plaintiff filed the Stipulation showing the agreed upon terms. The Stipulation provides
for the Court to retain jurisdiction pursuant to CCP section 664.6 to enforce
the agreement. (Dorfman Decl., Ex. A, ¶ C.) Pursuant to the Stipulation, “Defendants
shall pay to Chicago the settlement amount of $75,000.00 with 3% interest
payable over monthly installments of $3,225.00 each commencing on
November 1, 2021 and continuing the 1st day of each consecutive
month thereafter until the settlement sum is paid in full pursuant to the
Payment Schedule.” (Dorfman Decl., Ex. A, ¶ A.) Further, pursuant to the
Stipulation, in the event of default by the Defendants, Plaintiff is entitled
to request entry of judgment against Defendants for the amount of principal
plus court costs, less a credit for all payments received under the terms of
the Stipulation. (Keith Decl., Ex. A, ¶ B.)
Plaintiff
asserts that Defendants made payments totaling $51,630 and then stopped making payments
required by the Stipulation. (Dorfman Decl., ¶ 4.) Defendants defaulted under
the terms of the Stipulation by failing to pay the payment due April 1, 2023,
and all subsequent payments due under the Stipulation. (Ibid.)
 
Notably, Defendants failed to file
an opposition.  
 
As Defendants have defaulted, the
Court finds Plaintiff is entitled to entry of judgment under the
Stipulation. 
 
Based on the foregoing, the Court
grants the Motion to vacate dismissal and enters judgment in the principal sum
of $75,000,
less credits of $51,630, for a total of $23,370.00.   
 
III. CONCLUSION 
 
The Court GRANTS Plaintiff’s Motion to Vacate
Dismissal and Enter Judgment.  
 
Moving party to give notice. 
 
 