 Case Number:  24STCV04208    Hearing Date:   September 5, 2024    Dept:  73 09/05/24
Dept. 73
Hon.
Rolf Treu, Judge presiding 
 
IMMIGRANT RIGHTS DEFENSE COUNCIL, LLC
v. SKLAR, et al. (24STCV04208) 
 
Counsel
for Plaintiff: Sebastian Medvei (Medvei Law Group, APC)
Counsel
for Defendant/moving party:  Robert
Gentino (Law Office of Robert Gentino)
 
PLAINTIFF’S MOTION FOR ATTORNEY’S FEES (filed 06/24/2024)
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 
Plaintiff’s Motion for
Attorneys’ Fees is GRANTED. The Court awards Plaintiff $40,785 in attorney fees and costs. 
 
I. BACKGROUND
 
On February
20, 2020, Plaintiff Immigrant Rights Defense Council, LLC (“Plaintiff”) filed
this action against Defendants Izabella Sklar, Access Legal Services and Same
Day Marriage in Los Angeles, Inc. (“Defendants”) and Does 1 through 100.
 
Plaintiff’s
Complaint alleges a cause of action for Violation of the Immigration Consultant
Act (“ICA”). 
 
The Complaint
alleges the following. Commencing in or about 2003, Defendants started offering
immigration services. The business offers immigration legal services in
exchange for compensation, including services such as assistance with the
preparation of petitions and applications for immigration benefits, as well as
the provision of legal advice. However, during the time the website and Defendants’ business has
existed, Defendants did not obtain immigration consultant bonds, in violation
of Business and Professions Code section 22443.3. Moreover, throughout the
website, Defendants create an “aura of expertise” and refer to themselves as
professionals experienced in immigration laws, despite not taking the
immigration specialization exam, or even obtaining a law degree or even
maintaining the required immigration consultant bond. Nowhere on
the website is there a clear and conspicuous statement that Defendants cannot
provide legal advice, in violation of Business and Professions Code section
22442.2. Plaintiff seeks injunctive relief and reasonable fees/costs. 
 
On April 12,
2024, Plaintiff filed its Acceptance of Defendants’ Statutory Offer to
Compromise Pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure Section 998.
 
On April 12,
2024, the Court entered judgment enjoining Defendants from violating the ICA
and from engaging in the business of an immigration consultant as well as entitling
Plaintiff to reasonable attorney’s fees and costs. 
 
On April 25,
2024, Plaintiff filed and served notice of entry of judgment and Plaintiff’s
memorandum of costs. 
 
On June 24,
2024, Plaintiff filed the instant motion for attorneys’ fees, arguing:
·      
Plaintiff is entitled to recover its reasonable attorneys’ fees
and costs under Business and Professions Code section 22446.5
·      
Plaintiff’s counsel’s hours spent/hourly rate is reasonable
·      
This action serves the public interest. Plaintiff should be
awarded a lodestar multiplier of 1.5.
·      
Plaintiff requests attorney’s fees and costs for a total of
$40,785.
 
Defendants
filed an opposition, arguing: 
·      
Plaintiff’s counsel seeks the outrageous sum of $40,785 in
attorney fees notwithstanding Block Billing, Inflated Billing, Piggybacked
Work, No Complex Issues, Unreasonable Hourly Rate, Unnecessary Work Performed
After Defendants’ Settlement Offers for Full Relief and after Defendants’
Section 998 Offer for Full Relief. The Court should reduce the award or deny it
altogether. 
 
Plaintiff
filed a reply arguing that the Court should disregard Defendants’ late filed
opposition, that Defendants fail to specify which Defendant is bringing the
opposition, and Plaintiff maintains that the requested fees/costs are
reasonable. 
 
II. ANALYSIS 
 
A.      Defendants’
Late Filed Opposition
 
As an initial matter, the Court notes that Defendants failed to
timely file its opposition. 
 
Opposition papers are required to be filed and served at
least nine court days prior to the hearing under California Code of Civil
Procedure (“CCP”) section 1005, subdivision (b). A court may properly consider papers that are not timely filed
pursuant to CCP section 1005(b) unless “substantial rights” are affected.
 (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1300(d); Code Civ. Proc., § 475.)  The
appearance of a party at the hearing of a motion and his or her opposition to
the motion on the merits is a waiver of any procedural defects or
irregularities in a motion.  (Carlton
v. Quint (2000) 77 Cal.App.4th 690, 697.)
 
Here, Defendants filed their opposition on August 28, 2024, after
the opposition was due. Defendants assert the opposition was filed late because
the electronic filing was initially rejected. (Gentino Decl., ¶ 1.) However, a court may properly consider papers that
are not timely filed pursuant to CCP section 1005(b) unless “substantial
rights” are affected.  (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1300(d); Code Civ.
Proc., § 475.) Since Plaintiff were able to respond to the opposition in its
Reply, the Court, in its discretion, considers the arguments raised in Defendants’
late filed opposition.
 
B.      Objections to
Evidence
 
Plaintiff’s
objections to Defendant’s evidence are overruled. 
 
C.      Legal
Standard 
 
CCP §§ 1032 and 1033.5 provide that a prevailing party may
recover its costs as a matter of right, and that those costs may include
attorneys’ fees when authorized by statute or contract. 
 
“[A]bsent
circumstances rendering the award unjust, an attorney fee award should
ordinarily include compensation for all the hours reasonably spent,
including those relating solely to the fee.  We explained that the purpose
behind statutory fee authorizations—i.e., encouraging attorneys to act as
private attorneys general and to vindicate important rights affecting the
public interest—will often be frustrated, sometimes nullified, if awards are
diluted or dissipated by lengthy, uncompensated proceedings to fix or defend a
rightful fee claim.” (Ketchum v. Moses (2001) 24 Cal.4th 1122,
1133-34 (emphasis in original).)  “The fee setting inquiry in California
ordinarily begins with the ‘lodestar,’ i.e., the number of hours reasonably
expended multiplied by the reasonable hourly rate.... The lodestar figure may
then be adjusted, based on consideration of factors specific to the case, in
order to fix the fee at the fair market value for the legal services
provided.” (Id. at 1134.) Other factors to consider in fixing the
reasonableness of fees to be considered beyond the fee agreement alone include,
but are not limited to “(1) the time and labor required, the novelty and
difficulty of the questions involved, and the skill requisite to perform the
legal service properly; (2) the likelihood that the acceptance of the
particular employment will preclude other employment by the lawyer; (3) the fee
customarily charged in this locality for similar legal services; (4) the amount
involved and the results obtained; (5) the time limitations imposed by the
circumstances; and (6) the experience, reputation, and ability of the lawyer or
lawyers performing the services.” (Glendora Community Redevelopment
Agency v. Demeter (1984) 155 Cal.App.3d 465, 470.)
 
D.    
Plaintiff is entitled to recover
attorney’s fees
 
Business and Professions Code section 22446.5 “sets
forth three classes of plaintiffs who may pursue actions against immigration
consultants who violate the ICA: (1) ‘A person claiming to be aggrieved by a
violation of this chapter by an immigration consultant may bring a civil action
or injunctive relief or damages, or both’ (subd. (a)); ‘Any other party who,
upon information and belief, claims a violation of this chapter has been
committed by an immigration consultant may bring a civil action for injunctive
relief on behalf of the general public’ (subd. (b)); and (3) ‘The Attorney
General, a district attorney, or a city attorney who claims a violation of this
chapter has been committed by an immigration consultant, may bring a civil
action for injunctive relief, restitution, and other equitable relief against
the immigration consultant in the name of the people of the State of
California’ (subd. (c)).” (Immigrant Rights Defense Council, LLC v. Hudson
Ins. Co. (2022) 84 Cal. App. 5th 305, 309-310.) “The first two categories
of plaintiffs who prevail in their actions are entitled to ‘reasonable
attorneys’ fees and costs.’” (Id. at 310.) Indeed, such fees and costs
are mandatory, as opposed to other statutes that provide for discretionary
awards. (Bus. & Prof. Code § 22446.5(b) (stating that a private attorney
general plaintiff, “upon prevailing, shall recover reasonable attorneys’ fees
and costs”—use of the word shall makes such fees and costs mandatory); see
e.g. Grossman v. Park Fort Washington Assn. (2012) 212 Cal. App. 4th 1128,
1133 (where statutory conditions for an award of statutory attorney fees is
met, award is “mandatory”); Serrano v. Unruh (1982) 32 Cal. 3d 621, 633.)
 
Here, the
parties’ stipulation provides that Plaintiff was awarded an injunction against
Defendants and Plaintiff is entitled to attorney’s fees and costs. Thus, Plaintiff
is a prevailing party in this action and the Court finds that Plaintiff is
entitled to its reasonable attorneys’ fees and costs. 
 
E.     
Hourly Rate
 
“The
reasonable hourly rate is that prevailing in the community for similar
work.”  (PLCM Group v. Drexler (2000) 22 Cal.4th 1084, 1095.) “The
experienced trial judge is the best judge of the value of professional services
rendered in [her] court.” (Ibid.) An attorney’s
own billing rates carry a presumption of reasonableness. (Mandel v. Lackner
(1979) 92 Cal.App.3d 747, 761)
 
Plaintiff’s
counsel asserts his hourly rate of $750 is a reasonable base rate for the
lodestar calculation. Plaintiff’s counsel states this hourly rate is well
within the range of current market rates in Los Angeles for attorneys of
similar experience. (Medvei Decl., ¶ 6.)
 
The Court finds that the rate requested by Plaintiff’s
counsel is reasonable. Counsel’s
declaration sufficiently attests to his experience and the reasonableness of
the rates. (Medvei Decl., ¶¶ 5-7.) Based on the evidence before it, the Court is not inclined to
reduce the hourly rates requested.
 
F.      
Reasonable Hours Incurred and Costs
 
“A
trial court assessing attorney fees begins with a touchstone or lodestar
figure, based on the ‘careful compilation of the time spent and reasonable
hourly compensation of each attorney ... involved in the presentation of the
case.”  (Christian Research Institute v. Alnor (2008) 165
Cal.App.4th 1315, 1321.) “The reasonableness of attorney fees is within the
discretion of the trial court, to be determined from a consideration of such
factors as the nature of the litigation, the complexity of the issues, the
experience and expertise of counsel and the amount of time involved. The court
may also consider whether the amount requested is based upon unnecessary or
duplicative work.” (Wilkerson v. Sullivan (2002) 99 Cal.App.4th 443,
448.) 
 
While
not per se objectionable, block billing can exacerbate the vagueness of an
attorney fee request and support a court’s finding that time entries were
inflated and non-compensable.  (Christian Research Institute v. Alnor
(2008) 165 Cal.App.4th 1315, 1325-1326.) 
 
Plaintiff’s counsel states that he expended 36.2 hours litigating
this case. Plaintiff also seeks a lodestar enhancement of 1.5 due to: 1)
the contingent nature of Plaintiff’s counsel’s compensation and likely delays
in receiving payment; and 2) the public interest nature of the litigation. 
 
The
Court has reviewed all of the claimed hours. Utilizing a lodestar method, the Court
finds that the total amount of reasonable hours spent by Plaintiff’s counsel in
this matter to date is 36.2 hours. Hence, the lodestar attorney’s fees award is
$27,150 (36.2 x $750/hr.). Plaintiff’s request for a lodestar
enhancement/multiplier of 1.5 is granted.
 
Plaintiff also filed a Memorandum of Costs seeking the recovery of
its filing and service costs in connection with this matter. The “prevailing
party is entitled as a matter of right to recover costs in any action or
proceeding.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 1032, subd. (b).) Thus, the Court further awards Plaintiff’s requested costs
for $635.66 plus $60 in the filing of the instant Motion. 
 
In sum, this Court grants Plaintiff’s attorneys’ fees and costs totaling
$40,785.
 
III.
DISPOSITION 
 
Plaintiff’s Motion for
Attorneys’ Fees is GRANTED. The Court awards Plaintiff $40,785 in attorney fees and costs. 