 Case Number:  23STCV12280    Hearing Date:   September 5, 2024    Dept:  73 09/05/2024 
Dept. 73 
Hon. Rolf
Treu, Judge presiding 
 
SUNDO HONG v. SUN BE HONG (23STCV12280) 
 
Counsel for
Plaintiff/moving party:  Jacob Iloulian (Law Office of Jacob Illoulian) 
Counsel for
Defendant:  Justin Rodriguez (Justice Law Partners, Inc.)
 
MOTION FOR RECONSIDERATION OF PRIOR ORDER FOR
APPOINTMENT OF REFEREE (filed 5/09/2024) 
 
TENTATIVE RULING 
 
Defendant’s motion for
reconsideration is DENIED.
 
I. BACKGROUND
 
On June 1, 2023,
Plaintiff Sundo Hong (“Plaintiff”) filed the instant action against Defendant Sun
Be Hong (“Defendant”). 
 
This is an
action for partition by sale of the commercial property at 6840 S. Crenshaw
Blvd., Los Angeles, CA 90043, held equally as joint tenants by Plaintiff and
Defendant. (FAC, ¶ 1.) Plaintiff
alleges Defendant refused to voluntarily sell the real property in question or
buy out the share of Plaintiff’s interest. (Ibid.)
 
On
March 4, 2023, Plaintiff filed the Motion for Interlocutory Judgment of
Partition by Sale and Appointment of Partition Referee.  Defendant did not file an opposition. On May
1, 2024, the Court granted Plaintiff’s motion.
 
II.DISCUSSION
 
A.     
Judicial Notice
 
Defendant requests judicial notice of the Complaint for
Interpleader filed by Fenix Entrepreneur Inc., Case No. 24STCV17180. 
 
The court may take judicial notice of
“official acts of the legislative, executive, and judicial departments of the
United States and of any state of the United States,” “[r]ecords of (1) any
court of this state or (2) any court of record of the United States or of any
state of the United States,” and “[f]acts and propositions that are not
reasonably subject to dispute and are capable of immediate and accurate
determination by resort to sources of reasonably indisputable accuracy.” (Evid.
Code § 452, subds. (c), (d), and (h).)¿¿ 
 
The Court grants
Defendants’ request for judicial notice.
 
B.     
Motion for Reconsideration
 
Defendant moves for reconsideration of the Court’s May 1,
2024 order granting Plaintiff’s Motion for
Interlocutory Judgment of Partition by Sale and Appointment of Partition
Referee.
 
The moving party must present new facts, circumstances or law
in order to grant a motion for reconsideration.  (See CCP § 1008(a); see
also Mink v. Superior Court (1992) 2 Cal.App.4th 1338, 1342.)  The
party seeking reconsideration of an order shall state by affidavit what
application was made before, what order or decisions were made, and what new or
different facts or circumstances are claimed to be shown.  (CCP §
1008(a).)  Further, “…the party seeking reconsideration must provide not
only new evidence but also a satisfactory explanation for the failure to
produce that evidence at an earlier time.” (Glade v. Glade (1995) 38
Cal.App.4th 1441, 1457 [emphasis added].)  The legislative intent was to
restrict motions for reconsideration to circumstances where a party offers the
court some fact or circumstance not previously considered and some valid reason
for not offering it earlier. (Gilberd v. AC Transit (1995) 32
Cal.App.4th 1494, 1500.) 
 
Defendant asserts that new or different circumstances exist
warranting reconsideration. Defendant contends that an interpleader was filed
after the time of Plaintiff’s Motion “whereby
a Buyer who previously entered into a Purchase Agreement with the Defendant,
prior to the filing of the Complaint for Partition, declared a stake in the
instant case.” (Motion, p. 3.) Defendant also states that “counsel for
Defendant was limited in his ability to participate meaningfully in the May 1st
hearing as he was engaged in a trial matter and Defendant’s opposition had not
been effectively filed for the Court’s consideration.” (Motion, p. 4.)
 
The Court does not find that
Defendant has sufficiently established new or different circumstances that
could not have been offered earlier. According to Defendant, Martin Fierro entered
into a January 20, 2023 Purchase Agreement to buy Defendant's 1/2 Joint Tenant
interest in the subject real property owned with Plaintiff Sun Do Hong, thereby
severing the joint tenancy. (Motion, Ex. B.) Thus, Defendant had this
information in January 2023, before Plaintiff’s Motion was heard on May 1,
2024. Therefore, Defendant could have offered this information earlier at the
time of Plaintiff’s Motion. Yet, Defendant failed to file an opposition.
Therefore, the Court does not find reconsideration is warranted.   
 
Accordingly,
Defendant’s motion for reconsideration is DENIED.
 
III. CONCLUSION 
 
Defendant’s motion for reconsideration is DENIED.