  Case Number:  22NWCV00150    Hearing Date:   December 14, 2023    Dept:  C LORRAINE L. COTA
v. MARCO ANTONIO MARTIN aka TONY MARTIN, ET AL.
CASE NO.:  22NWCV00150
HEARING:  12/14/23 @ 9:30
a.m.
 
#1
TENTATIVE ORDER
 
     I.       
Specially Appearing Defendant Excellence
RE Real Estate. Inc.’s Motion for Reconsideration is DENIED.
 
    II.       
Plaintiff Lorraine Cota’s Motion to
Strike is GRANTED. 
 
  III.       
Plaintiff Lorraine Cota’s Application for
Writ of Attachment is GRANTED.
 
Plaintiff to give notice. 

 
 
Background
 
On March 3, 2022, Plaintiff Lorraine Cota filed a complaint
against Defendants Marco Antonio Martin (“Martin”), 365 Kapital, LLC (“365”),
My Rights Inc. (“MRI”), Rinaldo Rios (“Rios”), Excellence RE Real Estate. Inc.
(“ERRE”), and Does 1-50, inclusive, alleging causes of action for 1) financial
elder abuse, 2) breach of fiduciary duty, 3) actual fraud, 4) constructive
fraud, 5) conversion, 6) recovery of payment from unlicensed contractor, and 7)
money had and received. 
 
Default was entered against all parties on April 15, 2022. 
 
On September 20, 2023, Rios filed a Verified Answer to the
Complaint.
 
On September 25, 2023, Plaintiff filed a motion to strike
the verified answer on the grounds that it was filed after default had been
properly entered against Rios.   
 
On October 3, 2023, the Court denied ERRE’s motion to set aside
entry of default entered against ERRE on April 15, 2022.
 
On October 12, 2023, ERRE moved for reconsideration of the
order. On November 30, 2023, Plaintiff filed an opposition to ERRE’s motion
along with a request for judicial notice. To date, ERRE did not file a reply. 
 
On November 27, 2023, the Court denied without prejudice
Plaintiff’s ex parte application for writ of attachment. In the November 27,
2023 minute order, the Court ruled that the ex parte application be deemed the
moving papers. To date, no opposition or reply papers have been filed. 
 
On December 7, 2023, Rios filed an opposition to Plaintiff’s
motion to strike Rios’s Verified Answer. On December 11, 2023, Plaintiff filed
a reply. 
 
Analysis
 
1) Motion for Reconsideration
 
Specially appearing Defendant Excellence RE Real Estate.
Inc. (“ERRE”) moves pursuant to CCP § 1008 for reconsideration. 
 
ERRE requests the Court reconsider its October 3, 2023 order
wherein the Court denied ERRE’s motion to set aside the April 15, 2022 entry of
default. In its motion to set aside, ERRE argued that it was served by
substituted service rather than personal service and therefore that default was
prematurely entered before the time allowed for responding to the complaint
expired. The Court disagreed, finding that Defendant Reynaldo Rios was a person
authorized to accept service on behalf of ERRE, as Rios was the person in
charge of ERRE’s Pico Rivera office. The Court found that “it is undisputed
that Rios was employed by [ERRE], he was in charge of the Pico Rivera office,
and he is a co-defendant in this lawsuit. From a practical standpoint, these
factors make it “highly probable that [ERRE] would receive actual notice.” (10.03.23
Minute Order, p. 4.) 
 
ERRE now contends that Rios was not at ERRE’s office on the
day Plaintiff contends the summons and complaint were served on Rios. (Rios
Decl., para. 4.)  ERRE attaches the
Declaration of Christina Nunez, an Executive Assistant for ERRE, wherein Nunez
states that she keeps a sign in sheet at the office that does not indicate that
Rios was present on March 14, 2022 to accept service. (Nunez Decl., para. 3,
Exh. 3.) 
 
In opposition, Plaintiff contends that the motion must be
denied because 1) a motion for reconsideration must be based on new or
different facts, circumstances, or law and ERRE’s request is based on facts
known at the time of the October 3, 2023 order, and 2) ERRE has not shown a
right to relief from default. 
 
The Court agrees with Plaintiff. Though ERRE argues for the
first time that Rios never received actual service, the facts underlying this
contention are not new and have in fact existed dating back to before the
hearing on ERRE’s motion to set aside. Thus, they are not sufficient to grant a
motion for reconsideration. 
 
To be entitled to reconsideration, the moving party must show
that “(1) evidence of new or different facts exist, and (2) the party has a
satisfactory explanation for failing to produce such evidence at an earlier
time. [Citation.]” (Kalivas v. Barry Controls Corp. (1996) 49
Cal.App.4th 1152, 1160-61.) The burden under § 1008 “is comparable to
that of a party seeking a new trial on the ground of newly discovered evidence:
the information must be such that the moving party could not, with reasonable
diligence, have discovered or produced it at the trial.”¿ (Ibid.; Even
Zohar Construction & Remodeling, Inc. v. Bellaire Townhouses, LLC
(2015) 61 Cal.4th 830, 833 [finding that § 1008 imposes the special requirement
of having to not only show new or different facts, circumstances, or law, but
also to “show diligence with a satisfactory explanation for not presenting the
new or different information earlier…”].)¿
 
Here, ERRE has not met the high burden of demonstrating it
was diligent in searching for all supporting evidence available to it at the
time of the set aside hearing. Accordingly, ERRE’s motion for reconsideration
is DENIED. 
 
2) Motion to Strike
 
Plaintiff Lorraine Cota moves pursuant to CCP §§ 435 and
436(b) to strike Defendant Reynaldo Rios’s Verified Answer to the Complaint as
it was filed after default had been entered against Rios. 
 
Rios, the broker for the sale of the property that is the
subject of the Complaint, was served personally with a copy of the summons and
complaint at Defendant ERRE’s office building on March 14, 2022. After Rios
failed to respond, Plaintiff filed a request for entry of default on April 15,
2022. Judgment was entered that same date against all Defendants. Then, on
August 7, 2023, Rios was served with a copy of an amended summons and complaint
correcting the spelling of Rios’s first name, which was initially spelled
“Rinaldo”. Subsequently, on September 20, 2023, Rios filed a Verified Answer to
the Complaint. 
 
Plaintiff’s counsel attempted to meet and confer with Rios
prior to filing this motion to strike but Rios, who filed the Verified Answer
in pro per, only responded that he would talk with his attorney about this
motion. Therefore, the Court finds that Plaintiff’s counsel has satisfied the
meet and confer requirement. 
 
CCP § 435 allows a party to file a motion to strike to a
whole pleading or any part thereof. CCP § 436(b) allows a court to strike out
all or any part of any pleading that is not drawn in conformity with the laws
of the state. “The entry of a default terminates a defendant's rights to take
any further affirmative steps in the¿litigation until either its default is set
aside or a default judgment is entered.¿[Citations]¿‘A defendant against whom a
default has been entered is out of court and is not entitled to take any
further steps in the cause affecting plaintiff's right¿of action; he cannot
thereafter, until such default is set aside in a proper proceeding, file
pleadings or move for a new trial or demand notice of subsequent
proceedings.’¿[Citation]”¿(Devlin v. Kearny Mesa AMC/Jeep/Renault, Inc.¿(1984)
155 Cal.App.3d 381, 385-386.)¿
 
Plaintiff
contends that she is entitled to an order striking Rios’s Verified Answer
because it was filed after a proper entry of default. In opposition, Rios
contends for the first time that service of the Complaint was improper. Without
considering the merits of this contention, the Court finds that Rios’s
arguments are improperly placed in the opposition to Plaintiff’s motion to
strike. Instead, if Rios intends to undo the entry of default, Rios must bring
a separate motion to set aside the entry of default. Thus, Plaintiff’s motion
to strike Rios’s Verified Answer is GRANTED.
 
3) Writ of Attachment
 
Plaintiff seeks to attach the following property to secure
$918,542.55: 3811 Marber Avenue, Long Beach, CA 90808, Michelle Denise Toscano.
The legal description of the property is Lot 16 of Tract No. l3001, in the City
of Long Beach, County of Los Angeles, State of California, as per Map recorded
in Book 248, Page 8 through 10 inclusive of Maps, in the office of the County
Recorder of said County. 
 
An
application for writ of possession must be executed under oath and include: 
 
·       
A “showing of the basis
of the plaintiff’s claim and that the plaintiff is entitled to possession of
the property claimed,” 
·       
A copy of the written
instrument if the basis of the claim is a written instrument, 
·       
A “showing that the property is wrongfully detained by the
defendant,” 
·       
A
showing of “the manner in which the defendant came
into possession of the property,” 
·       
A showing of “the reason for the detention,” 
·       
A particular description of the property and its value, 
·       
A statement of the location of the property, including a
showing that there is probable cause to believe the property is located there
if alleged to be within a private place, and 
·       
A “statement that the property has not been taken for a tax,
assessment, or fine” or “seized under an execution against the property of the
plaintiff[.]” 
 
(Code
Civ. Proc., § 512.010, subd. (b).) 
 
The
court shall issue a writ of possession if, after considering pleadings
and other papers in the record—in addition to other evidence that may be
produced at the hearing—it finds the plaintiff has “established the probable
validity of” its claim to possession of the property and satisfied the
undertaking requirements of Code of Civil Procedure section 515.010. (Code Civ.
Proc., §§ 512.050 & 512.060, subd. (a).) Code of Civil Procedure section
515.010 requires the plaintiff to file an undertaking of at least “twice the
value of the defendant’s interest in the property” with the court before the
court issues any writ of possession, unless the court finds the defendants have
“no interest in the property.” (Id., § 515.010, subds. (a) & (b).) 
 
Here, Plaintiff demonstrates the basis of its claims and that he is
entitled to possession of the property at issue. The property that is the
subject of the writ of attachment is owned by Defendant Toscano.
Toscano, who is believed to be Defendant Martin’s girlfriend, was a participant
in the scheme to defraud Plaintiff of her finances, having been the recipient
of funds Martin claimed were owed to him under the alleged contract for home
improvement services. Martin directed payments for those services and there is
evidence of a wire transfer of $65,000 to Toscano. Toscano shortly thereafter
made a purchase of the Marber Property from Defendant 365, one of Martin’s
business entities in which he has 100% ownership.
 
Contingent on Plaintiff filing an undertaking of twice
Tuscano’s interest in the property, the Court finds that Plaintiff’s Writ of
Attachment is GRANTED.
 
Conclusion
 
1) Defendant ERRE’s motion for reconsideration is DENIED. 


2) Plaintiff Lorraine Cota’s motion to strike Defendant
Rios’s Verified Answer is GRANTED. 


3) Plaintiff Lorraine Cota’s application for writ of
attachment is GRANTED. 