 Case Number:  22STCV29276    Hearing Date:   December 14, 2023    Dept:  C KHACHIKYAN, et al.
v. PLATINUM TRANSPORTION GROUP, INC., et al.
CASE NO.:  22STCV29276
(r/w 23NWCV03161 and 23NWCV03263)
HEARING:  12/14/23 @
10:30 a.m.
 
#7
TENTATIVE ORDER
 
     I.       
Defendants Platinum Transportation Group
Inc. and Worldwide Transpiration Group, Inc.’s Motion to Consolidate is GRANTED.

 
   
II.       
Plaintiff-in-Intervention
Philadelphia Indemnity Insurance Company’s Motion to Sever is GRANTED
 
  III.       
Plaintiff-in-Intervention
Philadelphia Indemnity Insurance Company’s Motion to Reclassify is DENIED.  
 
Defendants to give notice. 
 
Background
 
Plaintiffs Ani Khachikyan, Elah Kaseblyan, a minor by and
through her guardian ad litem, Ani Khachikyan; and Leah Kaseblyan, a minor by
and through her guardian ad litem, Ani Khachikyan, (collectively, the Khachikyan
Plaintiffs), filed this action against defendants Platinum Transportation
Group, Inc. and Miguel Angel Pacheco for damages arising from a motor vehicle
accident. Plaintiffs allege the accident was caused by the Defendants'
employee, Miguel Angel Pacheco, while he was transporting Plaintiff and two of
her minor daughters, along with two other mothers and their children, in
Defendants' common carrier 2021 Mercedes Sprinter van. The complaint alleges
claims for (1) motor vehicle negligence, (2) general negligence, and (3)
negligent hiring/training/supervision/retention.
 
On April 5, 2023, the Khachikyan Plaintiffs filed an
Amendment to Complaint adding Worldwide Transportation Group, Inc. as a named
defendant. 
 
On October 4, 2023, in a separate action (23NWCV03161),
Plaintiff Vincent Sarni (Sarni) also filed a complaint against Defendants Platinum
Transportation Group, Inc. and Miguel Angel Pacheco based on the same accident,
alleging causes of action for (1) motor vehicle negligence, and (2) general
negligence. 
 
Similarly, on October 12, 2023, in a different case
(23NWCV03263), Plaintiffs Karine Kirakanyan and Madelina Tatevosian filed a
complaint against Defendants Platinum Transportation Group, Inc., Worldwide
Transportation Group, Inc., and Miguel Angel Pacheco based upon the same
accident, asserting claims for (1) motor vehicle negligence, and (2) general
negligence.
 
On November 27, 2023, the Court found that cases 22STCV29276,
23NWCV03161, and 23NWCV03263 are related within the meaning of California Rules
of Court, rule 3.300(a). Case no. 22STCV29276 was designated the lead case.
 
Now, Defendants Platinum Transportation Group Inc. and
Worldwide Transporation Group, Inc. (hereinafter, Moving Defendants”) move to
consolidate these related cases. Plaintiff-in-Intervention Philadelphia Indemnity
Insurance Company move to sever and reclassify the claims by Minor Plaintiffs.  The Khachikyan Plaintiffs oppose
each of these motions.  
 
 
I.            
Motion to Consolidate Related Cases
 
Legal Standard
 
“When actions involving a common question of law or fact are
pending before the court, it may order a joint hearing or trial of any or all
the matters in issue in the actions; it may order all the actions consolidated
and it may make such orders concerning proceedings therein as may tend to avoid
unnecessary costs or delay.”  (Code Civ. Proc. § 1048, subd.
(a).)  The purpose of consolidation is to enhance trial court efficiency
by avoiding unnecessary duplication of evidence and the danger of inconsistent
adjudications.  (See Todd-Stenberg v. Dalkon Shield Claimants
Trust (1996) 48 Cal.App.4th 976, 978-979.) 
 
A Notice of Motion to consolidate cases must (1)
include a list of all named parties in each case, the names of those who have
appeared, and the names of their respective attorneys of record; (2) include
the captions of all the cases sought to be consolidated; and (3) be filed in
each case sought to be consolidated.  (Cal. Rules of Court, rule
3.350(a)(1).)   
 
Procedural
Compliance
 
As a preliminary matter, the instant motion is not
procedurally proper pursuant to California Rules of Court, rule 3.350 because
the notice of motion was not filed in the related cases. However, this defect
is minor and shall be excused because all parties have been served. (Motion,
Proof of Service.) Therefore, the Court shall consider the instant motion on
its merits.
 
Merits
 
The Moving Defendants move to consolidate case 22STCV29276
with related cases 23NWCV03161 and 23NWCV03263, arguing that all three actions
involve common issues of law and fact in so far as each action arises out of
the same multi-vehicle accident that occurred on May 7, 2022 and involves
similar theories of liability. (Motion at pp. 6-7.) The Moving Defendants
further assert that consolidation of these actions would promote judicial
economy by avoiding the duplication of procedures and unnecessary costs and
delays. (Id. at pg. 7.) Consequently, they reason that no party would be
prejudiced if both actions were consolidated. (Ibid.) 
 
In opposition, the Khachikyan Plaintiffs oppose the instant
motion on the ground that consolidating the various cases would prejudice the
minor plaintiff’s trial preference rights. (Opposition at pg. 4.)
 
In reply, the Moving Defendants contend that the issue
regarding the minor plaintiff’s trial preference will be resolved by the
Plaintiff-in-Intervention’s motion to sever the minor’s claims from the claims
of the mother. (Reply at pg. 3.) Regardless, even if that motion is not
granted, the Moving Defendants reason that consolidation would still be proper
because the minor plaintiffs’ injuries are insignificant compared to their
mother’s. (Id. at pp. 3-4.) 
 
Under the circumstances, the Court is inclined to grant the
motion to consolidate. It would be an inefficient use of judicial resources to
have three separate trials proceeding at different times when they all involve
common issues of law and fact. Notably, the Khachikyan Plaintiffs’ opposition
does not contest this issue. 
 
With regard to the argument raised in the opposition, the
Court is cognizant of the Minor Plaintiff’s right to a trial preference
pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure § 36(b). The Court, with Judge Audri Mori
presiding, found that the Minor Plaintiffs have a substantial interest in this
action as a whole “because they were involved in and to continue to suffer
injuries from the subject accident.” (February 22, 2023 Minute Order at pg. 2.)
Furthermore, the parties stipulated that this action is a Code of Civil
Procedure § 36 priority case warranting trial preference. (See Stipulation and
Order, filed on March 10, 2023.)  Nothing
has occurred in this case that would disrupt this stipulated order. While the
Khachikyan Plaintiffs are concerned that consolidating the three actions would infringe
on the Minor Plaintiffs’ trial preference rights, this concern is mitigated by
severing the Minor Plaintiffs’ claim from the consolidated action and allowing
their claims to proceed sooner. As explained below, the
Plaintiff-in-Intervention’s Motion to Sever has merit.  Because consolidation will promote judicial
efficiency and minimize prejudice to the parties, consolidation is warranted.
 
Accordingly, because the Court intends to sever Minor Plaintiffs’
claims, the Motion for Consolidation is GRANTED. 
 
 
II.           
Motion to Sever Minor Plaintiffs’ Claims
 
Legal Standard
 
A court may
order a separate trial of any cause of action or of any separate issue in
furtherance of convenience, to avoid prejudice, or when separate trials will be
conducive to expedition and economy.  (Code Civ. Proc., §¿1048, subd.
(b).)  Whether there will be a severance and separate trials on issues in
a single action is a matter within the discretion of the trial court. (Shade
Foods, Inc. v. Innovative Products Sales & Marketing, Inc. (2000) 78
Cal.App.4th 847, 911-912.) 
 
Merits
 
Philadelphia argues that the issues raised by Plaintiff Khachikyan are
different from the issues raised by Minor Plaintiffs.  Philadelphia argues that the injuries
sustained by Minor Plaintiffs appear minimal and, if severed, their matters can
be transferred to a limited jurisdiction court. 
In contrast, Plaintiff Khachikyan requests damages in the amount of $4.2
million and alleges substantial injuries including traumatic brain injury,
miscarriage of a baby, visual deficits, and orthopedic injuries.  Plaintiff Khachikyan has visited over 11
doctors since the incident.  Philadelphia
argues that severance will promote judicial economy because Minor Plaintiffs
will receive an expedited trial untethered from the complexities of Plaintiff
Khachikyan’s trial.  Severance will also
avoid undue prejudice to Defendants and Philadelphia because they will have
additional time to defend against Plaintiff Khachikyan’s extensive and
significant allegations.  
 
Plaintiffs argue that the new February 23, 2024 trial date will allow
all parties to complete discovery, including expert witness discovery,
concerning Plaintiffs’ injuries.  Plaintiffs
contend that a severance will not promote judicial economy because Plaintiff
Khachikyan, as guardian ad litem, would have to testify as a percipient witness
in both trials.   
 
In the Court’s view, however, promoting judicial economy and minimizing
prejudice to the parties are best served by severing Minor Plaintiffs’
claims.  As discussed above, the Court is
inclined to consolidate this lawsuit with two other related cases: Sarni v.
Platinum Transportation Group, Los Angeles Superior Court Case No.
23NWCV03161, and Sirakanyan v. Platinum Transportation Group, Los
Angeles Superior Court Case No. 23NWCV03263, filed on October 4, 2023 and
October 12, 2023 respectively.  The court
does not see how the consolidated cases can be tried by the February 23, 2024
trial date, and any attempt to do so will likely prove extremely costly to the
parties.  Severing the Minor
Plaintiffs’ claims from the consolidated action will allow the former to
proceed to trial sooner.  
 
Accordingly, the Motion to Sever is GRANTED.
 
 
III.         
Motion to Reclassify Minor Plaintiffs’ Claims
 
A motion to reclassify an unlimited civil case as a limited civil case
may be granted only if the court determines that plaintiff’s claim necessarily
involves less than $25,000.00; i.e., that a greater recovery “could not be
obtained” or is “virtually unobtainable.” (Walker v. Superior Court
(1991) 53 Cal.3d 257.)  
 
Philadelphia argues the minors’ collective claims should be reclassified
as a limited civil case because their medical treatment consisted of one phone call
between their mother and their pediatrician, the minor children do not claim
lost earnings, and the minor children do not claim future care.  Philadelphia asserts that the special damages
for both Minor Plaintiffs total at most about $500.00.  
In Opposition, Plaintiffs submit reports from Neuropsychologist Claude
Ruffalo who concludes that both Minor Plaintiffs experienced concussive head
injuries with residual posttraumatic stress disorder symptoms. (Burunsuzyan
Decl., Exs. 1 and 2.)  Based upon this
record, the court cannot determine that Minor Plaintiffs will necessarily
recover less than $25.000.00.
 
Accordingly, the Motion to Reclassify is DENIED.
 
  
 
 