 Case Number:  23STCV06981    Hearing Date:   February 20, 2024    Dept:  54 


Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles




 
Lillian B. Scott, et al.,


 
 
 
Plaintiffs,


 
Case No.:
 


 
23STCV06981




 
vs.


 


 
Tentative Ruling
 




 
Norm Reeves, Inc., et al.,


 
 
 
Defendants.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing Date: February 20, 2024
Department 54, Judge Maurice A. Leiter
Motion to Compel Arbitration
Moving Party: Defendant Norman Reeves, Inc., joined
by Defendant Honda Motor Co., Inc.
Responding Party: Plaintiffs Lillian B. Scott and
Patricia Y. Mogart and Defendant Hudson Insurance Company
 
T/R:     DEFENDANTS’ MOTION TO COMPEL
ARBITRATION IS GRANTED AS AGAINST PLAINTIFFS ONLY.
 
THE ACTION IS STAYED IN ITS ENTIRETY.
 
DEFENDANTS TO NOTICE.  
 
If the parties wish to submit on the tentative, please email the
courtroom at SMCdept54@lacourt.org with notice to opposing
counsel (or self-represented party) before 8:00 am on the day of the hearing.
The Court considers the moving
papers, oppositions, and reply.
 
BACKGROUND
 
This is a lemon law and consumer fraud action
arising out of Plaintiffs’ purchase of a 2016 Honda Pilot
from Defendant Norman Reeves, Inc., manufactured and distributed by Defendant American Honda Motor Co., Inc.

 
 
 
 
ANALYSIS
 
“On petition of a party to an
arbitration agreement alleging the existence of a written agreement to
arbitrate a controversy and that a party thereto refuses to arbitrate a
controversy, the court shall order the petitioner and the respondent to
arbitrate the controversy if it determines that an agreement to arbitrate the
controversy exists….”  (CCP §
1281.2.)  The right to compel arbitration
exists unless the court finds that the right has been waived by a party’s
conduct, other grounds exist for revocation of the agreement, or where a
pending court action arising out of the same transaction creates the
possibility of conflicting rulings on a common issue of law or fact.   (CCP § 1281.2(a)-(c).)  “The party seeking arbitration bears the
burden of proving the existence of an arbitration agreement, and the party
opposing arbitration bears the burden of proving any defense, such as
unconscionability.”  (Pinnacle Museum
Tower Assn. v. Pinnacle Market Development (US), LLC (2012) 55 Cal.4th 223,
236.) 
 
A. Existence of Arbitration Agreement
 
Defendant Norman Reeves, Inc., joined
by Defendant Honda, moves to compel arbitration based on the arbitration
provision in the Retail Installment Sale Contract executed by Plaintiffs on February
27, 2021. (Decl. Marquez, Exh. A.) The agreement provides, in pertinent part, “Any claim or dispute, whether in contract, tort, statute or otherwise
... between you [Plaintiffs] and us [NR Honda] or our employees, agents,
successors or assigns, which arises out of or relates to your credit
application, purchase or condition of this vehicle, this contract or any resulting
transaction or relationship (including any such relationship with third parties
who do not sign this contract) shall, at your or our election, be resolved by
neutral binding arbitration and not by a court action.” (Id.) The agreement is governed by the FAA.
 
In opposition, Plaintiffs assert
Honda’s joinder is untimely and argue Honda cannot compel arbitration as a
non-signatory. After execution, Defendant Norman Reeves, Inc. assigned the
contract to Defendant Honda. No parties dispute this. The agreement
specifically includes claims against any assignees and as an assignee, Honda has
become a party to the agreement. Honda may compel arbitration against
Plaintiffs.
 
Defendant Hudson asserts that it cannot
be compelled to arbitrate because it is neither a party nor assignee of the
RISC. The Court agrees. Moving Defendants do not address this in reply.
 
Defendants have met their burden to
establish the existence of an agreement to arbitrate. The burden shifts to
Plaintiffs to establish any defenses to enforcement.
 
B. Waiver
 
“The question of waiver is one of
fact.” (Augusta v. Keehn & Associates (2011) 193 Cal.App.4th 331,
337 (quoting Berman v. Health Net (2000) 80 Cal.App.4th 1359, 1363-64).)
“There is no single test for waiver of the right to compel arbitration, but
waiver may be found where the party seeking arbitration has (1) previously
taken steps inconsistent with an intent to invoke arbitration, (2) unreasonably
delayed in seeking arbitration, or (3) acted in bad faith or with willful
misconduct.” (Id.)
 
Plaintiffs assert Defendants have
waived the right to arbitrate because they have delayed in filing this motion
despite discussion and a preliminary stipulation to arbitrate as early as July
2023. Plaintiffs argue that they will be prejudiced by arbitration at this
stage because trial is only months away, currently set for July 2024. This is
insufficient to establish waiver. Defendants have made their intention to
arbitrate clear since the beginning of this case and have taken no steps
inconsistent with this intention.
 
C. JAMS v. AAA
 
Plaintiffs assert the Court should
order the arbitration be administered by JAMS rather than AAA. The agreement
provides for AAA as arbitrator but allows for a different arbitrator with
mutual consent from the parties. The Court will not order the action to JAMS;
Defendants have not agreed to JAMS.
 
Defendants’ motion to compel
arbitration is GRANTED as to these Defendants only. The action is STAYED in its
entirety.


 