 Case Number:  22STCV34964    Hearing Date:   February 20, 2024    Dept:  54 


Superior Court of
  California
County of Los
  Angeles




 
ODG Builders, Inc.,


 
 
 
Plaintiff,


 
Case No.:
 


 
22STCV34964




 
vs.


 


 
Tentative Ruling
 




 
SBBB, LLC, et al.,


 
 
 
Defendants.


 


 




 


 


 


 



 
Hearing Date: February 20, 2024
Department 54, Judge Maurice A. Leiter
Motion to Strike Answer and Enter
Default
Moving Party: Plaintiff ODG Builders, Inc.
Responding Party: None
 
T/R:      PLAINTIFF’S MOTION TO STRIKE
DEFENDANT’S ANSWER AND ENTER DEFAULT IS GRANTED.
 
PLAINTIFF TO NOTICE.
 
If the parties wish to submit on the tentative, please
email the courtroom at SMCdept54@lacourt.org with
notice to opposing counsel (or self-represented party) before 8:00 am on the
day of the hearing.
 
The Court considers the moving papers.
No opposition has been received. 
 
“Any party, within the time allowed to
response to a pleading, may serve and file a notice of motion to strike the
whole or any part" of that pleading. (CCP 435(b). “The Court may, upon a
motion made pursuant to Section 435, or at any time in its discretion, and upon
terms it deems proper: (a) Strike out any irrelevant, false or improper matter
asserted in any pleading; (b) Strike out all or any part of any pleading not
drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of this state, a court rule, or an order
of the Court." (CCP 436.) 
 
Plaintiff moves to strike Defendant
SBBB, LLC’s answer on the grounds that it is an unrepresented entity. “A
corporation has the capacity to bring a lawsuit because it has all the powers
of a natural person in carrying out its business. (§ 17; Corp. Code, §§ 105,
207.) However, under a long-standing common law rule of procedure, a
corporation, unlike a natural person, cannot represent itself before courts of
record in propria persona, nor can it represent itself through a corporate
officer, director or other employee who is not an attorney. It must be represented
by licensed counsel in proceedings before courts of record.” (CLD
Construction, Inc. v. City of San Ramon (2004) 120 Cal.App.4th 1141, 1145.)
 
On September 5, 2023, Defendant’s
counsel was relieved via counsel’s motion. As of the date of this motion,
Defendant has failed to retain counsel. Defendant has not opposed this motion
to show it has counsel. 
 
Plaintiff’s motion to strike
Defendant’s answer and enter default is GRANTED.
 
 
 