 Case Number:  21STCV45326    Hearing Date:   November 6, 2023    Dept:  27  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL
DISTRICT
 



DEVIN GASTON, 
                   Plaintiff,
          vs.
 
FIRST
  TRANSIT, INC., et al.,
 
                   Defendants.
 


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


      CASE NO.: 21STCV45326
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: MOTION TO COMPEL RESPONSES TO FORM AND SPECIAL INTERROGATORIES;
  REQUEST FOR MONETARY SANCTIONS 


 
Dept.
  27
1:30
  p.m.
November
  6, 2023



 
MOVING PARTY: Defendant First Transit, Inc. 
 
I.           
INTRODUCTION
On
December 13, 2021, Plaintiff Devin Gaston (“Plaintiff”) filed a complaint
against Defendants First Transit, Inc. (“Defendant”) and Does 1 to 50 alleging
a single cause of action for negligence. 
On
October 13, 2023, Defendant filed and served the following two unopposed
discovery motions: (1) a motion to compel Plaintiff’s responses to Defendant’s
Form Interrogatories, Set One, without objections, and for monetary sanctions
against Plaintiff and/or her attorneys of record in the amount of $1,350.00
(the “Form Interrogatories Motion”); and (2) a motion to compel Plaintiff’s
responses to Defendant’s Special Interrogatories, Set One, without objections,
and for monetary sanctions against Plaintiff and/or her attorneys of record in
the amount of $1,350.00 (the “Special Interrogatories Motion”)(collectively,
the “Motions”). The Court will address the Motions in this one ruling. 
II.         
LEGAL
STANDARD
Within 30 days after service of
interrogatories, the party to whom the interrogatories are propounded shall
serve the original of the response to them on the propounding party, unless on
motion of the propounding party the court has shortened the time for response,
or unless on motion of the responding party the court has extended the time for
response.  (Code Civ. Proc. §
2030.260(a).)  If the party to whom
interrogatories are directed fails to serve a timely response, the party to
whom the interrogatories are directed waives any right to exercise the option
to produce writings under Section 2030.230, as well as any objection to the
interrogatories, including one based on privilege or on the protection for work
product.  (Code Civ. Proc. §
2030.290(a).) The party propounding interrogatories may move for an order
compelling response to the interrogatories. 
(Code Civ. Proc. § 2030.290(b).)  
 
Code Civ. Proc. § 2023.010(d) provides
that a misuse of the discovery process is failing to respond or to submit to an
authorized method of discovery.  Code
Civ. Proc. § 2023.010(h) states that a misuse of the discovery process includes
making or opposing, unsuccessfully and without substantial justification, a
motion to compel or limit discovery.   A
court may impose a monetary sanction against a party engaging in the misuse of
the discovery process or any attorney advising such conduct under Code Civ. Proc.
§ 2023.030(a).  The court shall impose a
monetary sanction against any party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully
makes or opposes a motion to compel a response to interrogatories, unless it
finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification
or that other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust. (Code
Civ. Proc. § 2030.290(c).) A court has discretion to fix the amount of
reasonable monetary sanctions.  (Cornerstone
Realty Advisors, LLC v. Summit Healthcare Reit, Inc. (2020) 56 Cal.App.5th
771.)
III.       
DISCUSSION
Both the Form Interrogatories Motion
and the Special Interrogatories Motion are unopposed which gives rise to an
inference that the Motions have merit. (Sexton v. Superior Court (1997)
58 Cal.App.4th 1403, 1410.) 
The Court
therefore GRANTS the Form Interrogatories Motion and Special Interrogatories
Motion. Plaintiff is ordered to serve verified, complete, and code-compliant
responses, without objections, to Defendant’s Form Interrogatories, Set One,
and Special Interrogatories, Set One within 30 days of the date of this order. 

As to monetary sanctions, Defendant
requests monetary sanctions of $1,350.00 per motion which represents four (4)
hours preparing the respective motions, two (2) hours reviewing the opposition
and preparing a reply, and one (1) hour appearing at the hearing on the motion.[1]
(Mintie Decl., ¶ 13.) Counsel’s hourly rate is $225.00 per hour. (Id.) Given
that the Motions are unopposed and the relative brevity and straightforward
nature of the Motions, the Court awards Defendant reasonable monetary sanctions
in the amount of $1350.00 per motion (which represents three hours of work per
motion at the hourly rate of $225.00 per hour). 
Thus, as to the Form Interrogatories
Motion and Special Interrogatories Motion, the Court awards Defendant total
monetary sanctions in the amount of $1350.00. 
IV.        
CONCLUSION
The Court GRANTS the Form
Interrogatories Motion and Special Interrogatories Motion. Plaintiff is ordered
to serve verified, complete, and code-compliant responses, without objections, to
Defendant’s Form Interrogatories, Set One, and Special Interrogatories, Set One
within 30 days of the date of this order.
The Court GRANTS IN PART Defendant’s
request for monetary sanctions and awards Defendant reasonable monetary
sanctions in the total amount of $1350.00. This amount represents monetary
sanctions as to both the Form Interrogatories Motion and Special
Interrogatories Motion. Monetary sanctions are to be paid by Plaintiff and
Plaintiff’s attorney of record, jointly and severally, to Defendant within 30
days of the date of this order. 
Moving party to give notice.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at SSCDEPT27@lacourt.org indicating
intention to submit on the tentative as directed by the instructions provided
on the court website at www.lacourt.org. 
Please be advised that if you submit on the tentative and elect not to
appear at the hearing, the opposing party may nevertheless appear at the
hearing and argue the matter.  Unless you
receive a submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume
that others might appear at the hearing to argue.  If the Court does not receive emails from the
parties indicating submission on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may, at its discretion, adopt the
tentative as the final order or place the motion off calendar.
        Dated this 3rd day of November 2023
 




 


 




 


Hon.
  Lee S. Arian 
Judge of the Superior Court
 




 


