  Case Number:  20STCV22045    Hearing Date:   November 6, 2023    Dept:  27  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL
DISTRICT
 



ENA MEJIA,
                   Plaintiff,
          vs.
 
RESTAURANT
  DEPOT; DOES 1 to 100, inclusive,
 
                   Defendants.


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


      CASE NO.: 20STCV22045
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: DEFENDANT RESTAURANT DEPOT, LLC’S MOTION FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT TO
  PLAINTIFF’S COMPLAINT


 
Dept.
  27
1:30
  p.m.
November
  6, 2023



 
I.                 
INTRODUCTION
This is a personal injury action. Plaintiff Ena Mejia (“Plaintiff”)
filed this action on June 11, 2020. She filed the operative Second Amended
Complaint on July 15, 2020 (SAC), alleging one cause of action for premises
liability against Defendant Restaurant Depot[1]
“(Restaurant Depot”) and Does 1 to 100. On May 17, 2023, Plaintiff filed a Doe
amendment to the SAC, naming Defendant P & T Restaurant, Inc. d.b.a. Viva
La Pasta (Viva La Pasta).  Plaintiff
claims that while shopping at a Restaurant Depot store in Van Nuys, she was
struck by a box that fell off a shopping cart, which caused her personal
injuries.
On August 23, 2023, Restaurant Depot filed the instant motion for
summary judgment. On October 23, 2023, Plaintiff opposed the motion.  On November 1, 2023, Restaurant Depot
replied.
 
II.              
LEGAL
STANDARDS
A.  
Summary
Judgment
The function of a motion for summary judgment or adjudication is
to allow a determination whether an opposing party has evidentiary support for
a pleading or claim and, if not, to enable an order of summary dismissal
without the need for trial. (Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25
Cal.4th 826, 843.) Code of Civil Procedure section 437c(c) “requires the trial
judge to grant summary judgment if all the evidence submitted, and ‘all
inferences reasonably deducible from the evidence’ and uncontradicted by other
inferences or evidence, show that there is no triable issue as to any material
fact and that the moving party is entitled to judgment as a matter of law.” (Adler
v. Manor Healthcare Corp. (1992) 7 Cal.App.4th 1110, 1119.)  There is a triable issue of material fact if,
and only if, the evidence would allow a reasonable trier of fact to find the
underlying fact in favor of the party opposing the motion in accordance with
the applicable standard of proof.”  (Aguilar, 25 Cal.4th at 850.)
 “[T]he party moving for summary judgment bears an initial burden of
production to make a prima facie showing of the nonexistence of any triable
issue of material fact; if he carries his burden of production, he causes a
shift, and the opposing party is then subjected to a burden
of production of his own to make a prima facie showing of the existence of a
triable issue of material fact.”  (Ibid.)  
“On a summary
judgment motion, the court must therefore consider what inferences favoring the
opposing party a factfinder could reasonably draw from the evidence. While
viewing the evidence in this manner, the court must bear in mind that its
primary function is to identify issues rather than to determine issues.  Only when the inferences are indisputable may
the court decide the issues as a matter of law. If the evidence is in conflict,
the factual issues must be resolved by trial.” 
(Binder v. Aetna Life Ins. Co. (1999) 75 Cal.App.4th 832, 839
[cleaned up].)  Further, “the trial court
may not weigh the evidence in the manner of a factfinder to determine whose
version is more likely true.  Nor may the
trial court grant summary judgment based on the court's evaluation of
credibility.”  (Id. at p. 840
[cleaned up]; see also Weiss v. People ex rel. Department of Transportation
(2020) 9 Cal.5th 840, 864 [“Courts deciding motions for summary judgment or
summary adjudication may not weigh the evidence but must instead view it in the
light most favorable to the opposing party and draw all reasonable inferences
in favor of that party”].)  
Store Owner Liability
“A store owner is not the
insurer of its patrons' personal safety, but does have a duty to exercise
reasonable care to keep the premises reasonably safe for patrons. [Citation.]
This includes a duty to keep the floors safe for patrons' use. [Citation.] To
establish an owner's liability for negligence, the plaintiff must prove duty,
breach, causation, and damages. [Citation.]” (Peralta v. Vons Companies, Inc.
(2018) 24 Cal.App.5th 1030, 1035.) In a negligence-based cause of action, “[t]o
meet its burden of proof, a ‘plaintiff must introduce evidence which affords a
reasonable basis for the conclusion that it is more likely than not that the
conduct of the defendant was a cause in fact of the result. A mere possibility
of such causation is not enough…. A store owner is liable if the store owner
created the hazardous condition or was aware of it.” (Id. at 1036.)
          If the store owner’s employee created the hazardous
condition, the store owner is vicariously liable under respondeat superior. (Getchell
v. Rogers Jewelry (2012) 203 Cal.App.4th 381, 385; see also Sanders
v. MacFarlane’s Candies (1953) 119 Cal.App.2d 497, 501 [if employee created
hazardous condition within the scope of employment, knowledge is imputed to the
store owner].)
Although the owner's lack of knowledge is
not a defense, ‘[t]o impose liability for injuries suffered by an invitee due
to [a] defective condition of the premises, the owner or occupier ‘must have
either actual or constructive knowledge of the dangerous condition or have been
able by the exercise of ordinary care to discover the condition, which if known
to him, he should realize as involving an unreasonable risk to invitees on his
premises....'’ [Citation.]
 
Courts have also held that where the
plaintiff relies on the failure to correct a dangerous condition to prove the
owner's negligence, the plaintiff has the burden of showing that the owner had
notice of the defect in sufficient time to correct it. [Citation.]
 
(Ortega v. Kmart Corp.
(2001) 26 Cal.4th 1200, 1206.)
III.          
DISCUSSION
          Restaurant Depot’s Prima Facie Showing
          Restaurant Depot contends there is no triable issue of
material fact regarding the issues of duty, breach, or causation, on the
grounds that: (1) Restaurant Depot did not create the hazardous condition; and (2)
Restaurant Depot did not have actual or constructive knowledge of the hazardous
condition. More specifically, Restaurant Depot contends that the undisputed
facts show, in part, as follows:
1.  On November 9, 2018,
Plaintiff was walking in the Restaurant Depot store located in Van Nuys when a
box fell on her from an overloaded shopping cart (Separate Statement of
Undisputed Material Facts “SSUMF” 8); 
2.  The incident occurred at the
front end of the store as Plaintiff was walking toward the cash register (SSUMF
9);
3.  Plaintiff contends the boxes on
the subject shopping cart were piled high, which constituted a dangerous
condition (SSUMF 10);
4.  Plaintiff does not know how
long the condition existed before the incident (SSUMF 11);
5.  Plaintiff first saw the
shopping cart on her way to the cash register and therefore does not know how
long the subject box was on the overloaded shopping cart (SSUMF 12);
6.  Plaintiff observed that the
person using the overloaded shopping cart was wearing an orange-colored vest
with stripes (SSUMF 14);
7.  Employees of the Restaurant
Depot store in Van Nuys wear blue vests, not orange-colored vests (SSUMF 15);
8.  No employees of Restaurant
Depot loaded the subject shopping cart with any items, including the box that
fell on Plaintiff (SSUMF 17);
9.  The subject shopping cart was
being used by Defendant Viva La Pasta (SSUMF 20);
10.       The box that struck Plaintiff
was loaded by Mr. Valdez onto the top of his shopping cart (SSUMF 22);
11.       Mr. Valdez was an employee of
Viva La Pasta at the time of the incident (SSUMF 23); and
12.      
Mr. Valdez did not seek the assistance of any
employees of Restaurant Depot to move any of the shopping carts he was using on
the day of the incident (SSUMF 24).
Based on these undisputed
facts, [2]
the Court finds that Restaurant Depot has met its initial burden of
establishing the absence of a triable issue of material fact on the issues of duty,
breach and causation.  These facts sufficiently
establish Restaurant Depot’s prima facie showing that no triable issues of fact
exist as to whether (1) Restaurant Depot created the hazardous condition
leading to Plaintiff’s injuries and (2) Restaurant Depot had actual or
constructive knowledge of the hazardous condition. 
Plaintiff’s Shifted Prima
Facia Showing
Plaintiff does not meet her
shifted burden to show the existence of a triable issue of fact.  In her Separate Statement, Plaintiff raises the
following three primary facts that she contends create a triable issue:   
1.    
There was a man pushing a shopping cart with
merchandise in front of [Plaintiff] that appeared to be a [Restaurant Depot] employee.  Her reasoning is there’s a group there who
help you with lifting heavy items and such. 
These individuals are wearing these shirts, like a vest, a vest that has
stripes on it.  Further, she states that
she knows it was an employee because the “helper” (Rogelio Avila) had just left
the cart there and had gone off to pick up some more items. The box fell from this
cart.  (Plaintiff’s Undisputed Statement
of Facts (“PUSF”) 3.)
2.    
Viva La Pasta employee Rogelio Valdez Avila (Rogelio
Avila) witnessed the incident and was helping his boss on the day of the
incident. (PUSF 6.)
3.    
Rogelio Avila was not wearing a vest on the day of
the incident. (PUSF 7.)
Regarding PUSF 3, the fact
that the man pushing a cart “appeared” to be an employee of Restaurant Depot is
unavailing, as that is merely an indication of Plaintiff’s state of mind at the
time of the incident, which is not an issue for purposes of a premises
liability claim. (See Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (e); Peralta, supra, 24
Cal.App.5th at p. 1035.)  Moreover, this
proffered statement is directly undermined by Plaintiff’s concessions that the
person handling the shopping cart at the time of the incident was wearing an
orange-colored vest with stripes but employees of Restaurant Depot at that Van
Nuys location wear blue vests. (SSUMF 14-15; see Halpern Decl., Ex. 6, Mejia
Depo., 36:4-6.)
It is unclear how Rogelio
Avila helping his boss on the day of the incident and witnessing the incident
has any bearing on liability.  If
anything, it further supports Restaurant Depot’s position that the party who
created the hazardous condition was Viva La Pasta, and that Restaurant Depot had
neither actual knowledge nor constructive knowledge of the hazardous condition
before the incident.
Plaintiff’s contention that
Rogelio Avila was not wearing a vest on the day of the incident is contradicted
by Plaintiff’s concessions that the person handling the shopping cart was
wearing an orange-colored vest with stripes and that the person handling the
subject shopping cart was Rogelio Avila acting on behalf of Viva La Pasta.
(SSUMF 13-14, 22-24.) Also, Plaintiff has conceded that employees of Restaurant
Depot at the Van Nuys location wear blue vests. (SSUMF 15.) Plaintiff has not
presented evidence showing that the person handling the shopping cart was
wearing a blue vest. (See PUSF 3, 7.)
In her Opposition and Separate
Statement, Plaintiff proffers new theories of liability that are not part of
her operative complaint.  She now seeks
to hold Restaurant Depot liable on the theory that it created a dangerous
condition beyond the grocery cart at issue by allowing the store to be
overcrowded with customers pushing and shoving each other while maneuvering
heavy shopping carts, all while insufficiently trained employees looked
on.  (See PSUF 13, 14, 15).  These claims are a shift in allegations from
the SAC in an apparent attempt to change the theory upon which the case has
progressed to date.  The Court does not
consider these new theories for the first time at summary judgment.  (See Blair v. Superior Court (1990)
218 Cal. App. 3d 221, 226; see also Oakland Raiders v. National Football League
(2005) 131 Cal.App.4th 621, 646 [finding that three additional claims of how
defendant breached its fiduciary duties were not pled or encompassed by
plaintiff's second cause of action for breach of fiduciary duty and therefore
the trial court correctly disregarded them from plaintiff’s opposition to
motion for summary judgment]; Laabs v. City of Victorville (2008) 163
Cal.App.4th 1242 [finding that additional facts alleged in opposition to
defendant’s motion for summary judgment shifted the alleged dangerous condition
to property not remotely referenced in the amended complaint and attempted to
predicate liability on a totally different condition]).   And,
even if the Court were to consider these new theories, the evidence to support
them is insufficient.  
The allegations and evidence presented
to the Court show that Restaurant Depot did not create the hazard allegedly
created by the overfilled grocery cart from which a box fell on Plaintiff and
Restaurant Depot did not have constructive knowledge of that hazard prior to Plaintiff’s
alleged injury. The Court thus finds that Plaintiff has failed to establish the
existence of a triable issue of material fact regarding Restaurant Depot’s liability.
Accordingly, the Court GRANTS Restaurant Depot’s motion for summary judgment.
IV.           
CONCLUSION
The Court GRANTS Restaurant Depot’s motion for summary judgment.
Moving party to give notice.
Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must send an email
to the Court at SSCDEPT27@lacourt.org indicating intention to submit on the
tentative as directed by the instructions provided on the court website at
www.lacourt.org.  Please be advised that
if you submit on the tentative and elect not to appear at the hearing, the
opposing party may nevertheless appear at the hearing and argue the
matter.  Unless you receive a submission
from all other parties in the matter, you should assume that others might
appear at the hearing to argue.  If the
Court does not receive emails from the parties indicating submission on this
tentative ruling and there are no appearances at the hearing, the Court may, at
its discretion, adopt the tentative as the final order or place the motion off
calendar.
11/3/23




 


 




 


Hon. Lee S.
  Arian 
Judge
  of the Superior Court
 




 


