  Case Number:  23STCV04903    Hearing Date:   September 6, 2024    Dept:  17 Superior  Court of California County of  Los Angeles   DEPARTMENT 17   TENATIVE RULING      CASEY    MILLER              vs.   SPECTRUM    HYDROPONICS, et al.        Case No.:     23STCV04903      Hearing Date:  September 6, 2024        Defendants’ motion for summary judgment is DENIED.  Defendants’ motion for summary adjudication is GRANTED as to the first through  eighth causes of action.                  On 3/6/2023, Plaintiff Casey Miller  (Plaintiff) filed suit against Spectrum Hydroponics and Scott Murray  (collectively, Defendants), alleging: (1) discrimination; (2) retaliation; (3)  failure to prevent; (4) failure to provide reasonable accommodation; (5)  failure to engage in good faith process; (6) violation of California Family  Rights Act (CFRA); (7) declaratory judgment; (8) wrongful termination; (9)  failure to pay wages; (10) failure to pay overtime; (11) failure to provide  meal and rest periods; (12) failure to provide itemized wage statements; (13)  waiting time penalties; (14) unfair competition; and (15) failure to permit  inspection of personnel and payroll records.                Now, Defendants move for summary  judgment, or, in the alternative, summary adjudication, of Plaintiff’s  Complaint.    Discussion                 As a preliminary matter, neither Defendants’  Memorandum of Points and Authorities nor its Separate Statement addressed  causes of action Nos. 9-15.[1]  Accordingly, summary judgment is not appropriate, and the Court limits its  analysis to the claims which were addressed in the moving papers.  As their motion for summary judgment, it is Defendants’  initial burden to submit sufficient evidence to shift the burden of proof to  Plaintiff. Without any mention of, or evidence concerning, the Labor Code  causes of action, Defendants have not met their initial burden of proof as to  these claims, and thus the burden did not shift to Plaintiff to produce any  evidence.                Defendant argues that: (1)  Plaintiff’s first through sixth causes of action fail against Defendants  because the Spectrum Hydroponics did not regularly employ five or more  employees; (2) Plaintiff cannot establish a disability discrimination claim;  (3) Plaintiff cannot establish a failure to accommodate or an interactive  process claim; and (4) Plaintiff cannot establish a retaliation claim under  either FEHA or CFRA.               As for the first contention,  Government Code section 12926(d) provides a clear definition as to which  employers are governed by the FEHA, stating “‘Employer’ includes any person  regularly employing five or more persons…” (Gov’t Code § 12926, subdivision d;  (emphasis added;) see also Jennings v. Marralle (1994) 8 Cal.4th 121,  130 [“the FEHA, which declares the right to employment without discrimination  to be a civil right and establishes that right as public policy of this state,  simultaneously limits the application of the act’s enforcement provisions to  employers of five or more persons.”) The Code of Regulations explains that  “regularly employing means employing five or more individuals for any part of  the day on which the unlawful conduct allegedly occurred, or employing five or  more employees on a regular basis.” (Cal. Code Regs., tit. 2, § 11008.)  Similarly, Government Code section 12945.2(b)(4)(A) states that “‘Employer  means … any person who directly employs five or more persons to perform  services for a wage or salary.”” (Gov’t Code § 12945.2, subdivision b.)               In support of its contention that it  never employed five or more employees, Defendants submitted evidence that:   -          Spectrum  LLC (the Company) is a retail business located in Santa Fe Springs, California,  that sells hydroponics equipment and supplies. Formed in March 2021, Spectrum  LLC is the successor in interest of Spectrum Hydroponics, Plaintiff’s employer.  (SS 1-2.)    -          Defendant  Scott Murray was the sole proprietor of Spectrum Hydroponics and, currently, he  is one of the managing members of Spectrum LLC. Defendant Scott Murray was  never an employee of Spectrum Hydroponics and is not an employee of Spectrum  LLC. (SS 3-4.)    -          Throughout  Plaintiff’s employment with the Company (which spanned over a three-year  period), there has never been five or more employees working for the company  simultaneously. (SS 7.)    -          Specifically,  from 2018 through Plaintiff’s resignation in 2021, there were only three  employees, including Plaintiff. (SS 8.)    -          The  Company’s Quarterly Federal Tax Return (Form 941), reveals that the Company  employed only three employees for all four quarters of 2020, including  Plaintiff, and only three employees for the first quarter of 2021, including  Plaintiff. (SS 9.)    -          At  his deposition, Plaintiff speculated that, during his tenure at the Company,  about seven to eight other individuals worked at the Company. Plaintiff  believes these individuals were employees because he was in the Company store  with them and because they “did company parties together. (SS 11.) However,  Plaintiff admitted that he did not know the employment status of these  individuals as he never saw these individuals’ personnel files, IRS W-2 Forms  or wage statements. (SS 12.) Moreover, Plaintiff confirmed he did not know  whether these individuals were independent contractors who were free to set  their own work schedules. (SS 13.)    -          The  Company hired a construction company to perform carpentry and construction  services. The Company hired a graphic designer as a consultant to create a  website and social media content. (SS 15-16.) However, these individuals were  not employees.    Defendants’ evidence supports a reasonable inference that it  did not have five employees or more, and thus is not subject to FEHA.  Accordingly, the burden shifts to Plaintiff to disclose a triable issue of  material fact.    In opposition, Plaintiff argues that Defendant has not  presented evidence to prove that the individuals were independent contractors.  More specifically, Plaintiff argues that “for those whom Defendants claim were  independent contractors, Defendants have not produced any documentary evidence  showing such a relationship (i.e. invoices, contracts for services, etc.)”  (Opp., 8: 4-5.)   Moreover, Plaintiff argues that:   When Plaintiff was terminated, in March 2021, Spectrum  employed Taylor Hansen, Plaintiff, Cooper Weatherly, Cory Peligulas, Donald  Doe, David Doe, Ed Wolf, Dave Padilla, Diane Doe, Christian Holguin, Eric,  Gunter, Brandon With, and two additional employees who were recently hired.  [PSS 7-16.] Each of these employees reported to Hansen and Murray. [Id.]  Plaintiff worked both the same and overlapping shifts with these employees.  [Id.] Throughout his employment, Plaintiff worked with Cory Peligulas one to  two times per week. [Id.] In fact, Spectrum currently has six employees. [PSS  48.] As such, whether Defendants employed five persons is disputed, and  Plaintiff’s FEHA claims survive.               (Opp., 8: 15-22.)   However, Defendant submitted Quarterly Federal Tax Return  (Form 941) and payroll records to show that they employed only three employees  for all four quarters of 2020 (including Plaintiff), and only three employees  for the first quarter of 2021 (again including Plaintiff). Moreover, as noted  by Defendant, while Plaintiff contends that Defendant’s Exhibit 2 does not  indicate the number of persons legally  classifiable as employees because Defendants allegedly “have a history of  paying employees in cash,” and claims that he and “many” of his coworkers were  compensated in cash “at some point,” Plaintiff has not provided any evidence  which could show this beyond his own statement that it so. As such, Plaintiff’s  assertion is conclusory and speculative. (Evid. Code § 702.)    Moreover, Plaintiff also argues that for purposes of FEHA,  the term “employer” can include independent contractors because employer is  defined as any person or individual regularly employing “five or more  individuals, including individuals performing any service under any  appointment, contract of hire or apprenticeship, express or implied, oral or  written.” `As such, Plaintiff argues that regardless of whether certain  individuals were independent contractors, they may still be counted for  purposes of determining whether an entity is an employer.     However, Plaintiff does not cite any caselaw wherein Courts  have adopted this interpretation. (“This failure to cite pertinent legal  authority is enough reason to reject the argument”); Akins v. State of  California (1998) 61 Cal.App.4th 1, 50, 71 (contention waived by failure to  cite legal authority). Moreover, Plaintiff offers no explanation as to why the  statute would not have been drafted to expressly include independent  contractors in the list of included individuals. Accordingly, the Court  declines to adopt Plaintiff’s interpretation of this statute. Moreover, as  noted by Defendants in reply, subsection (1)(A) goes on to define “regular  basis” as referring to “the nature of a business that is recurring, rather than  constant.” Here, the evidence submitted only supports a reasonable inference  that Defendants’ business is constant, not recurring.    As such, the Court finds Plaintiff’s evidence fails to  support a reasonable inference that Defendant regularly employed five or more  individuals during the relevant period. Based on this conclusion, summary adjudication  can be granted as to claims one through six.                Given this conclusion, the Court  necessarily concludes no triable issue exist as to the seventh cause of action  for declaratory judgment and the eighth cause of action for wrongful  termination, both of which are derivative of claims one through six.                However, given that this motion does  not address the Labor Code violations, the Court cannot conclude that  Plaintiff’s prayer for punitive damages fails as a matter of law.               Based on the foregoing, Defendants’  motion for summary judgment is denied. Defendants’ motion for summary adjudication  is granted as to the first through eighth causes of action.      It is so  ordered.    Dated:   September    , 2024                                                                                                                                                                Hon. Jon R. Takasugi     Judge of the Superior Court       Parties who intend to submit on  this tentative must send an email to the court at smcdept17@lacourt.org  by 4 p.m. the day prior as directed by the instructions provided on the court  website at www.lacourt.org.   If a party submits on the tentative, the party’s email must include the case  number and must identify the party submitting on the tentative.  If all parties to a motion  submit, the court will adopt this tentative as the final order.  If the department does not receive an email  indicating the parties are submitting on the tentative and there are no  appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed off calendar.  For more information,  please contact the court clerk at (213) 633-0517.         