 Case Number:  24STCV12852    Hearing Date:   September 6, 2024    Dept:  17 Superior Court of California
County of Los
Angeles
 
DEPARTMENT 17
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 



RAMON ARIAS MORENO 
  
        
  vs.
 
HAMIDEH MOAYEDPARDAZI, M.D., 
et al. 
  


 Case
  No.:  24STCV12852   
 
 
 
 Hearing Date:  September 6, 2024




 
            Defendants’
demurrer is OVERRULED. 
 
            Defendants’
motion to strike is DENIED. 
 
            On
5/21/2024, Plaintiff Ramon Arias Moreno (Plaintiff) filed suit against Hamideh
Moayedpardazi, M.D., De La Pena Eye Clinic, a Medical Group, Inc., and
Med-Laser Surgical Center, LLC, alleging: (1) professional negligence; (2)
medical battery, and (3) intentional infliction of emotional distress. 
 
            On
7/29/2024, Defendants Hamideh Moayedpardazi, M.D. and De La Pena Eye Clinic, a
Medical Group, Inc., (collectively, Defendants) demurred to Plaintiff’s second
and third causes of action.
 
Factual Background
 
            This
action arises out of a surgery performed on Plaintiff’s eyes. Plaintiff alleges
that he consented to undergoing bilateral “selective laser trabeculoplasty,”
first on the left eye, followed by the right eye “a few weeks later.”
(Complaint ¶ 13.) Plaintiff alleges the surgery was performed on the wrong eye,
and without the proper pre-operative markings or numbing drops. 
 
Discussion 
 
            Defendants
argue that Plaintiff cannot state a claim for medical battery or intentional
infliction of emotional distress. 
 
            After
review, the Court disagrees. 
 
            “The
battery theory should be reserved for those circumstances when a doctor
performs an operation to which the patient has not consented.” (Cobbs v.
Grant (1972) 8 Cal.3d 229, 240.)
 
 Here, Plaintiff alleges that he consented to
surgery being performed first on his left eye, and then on his right eye. By
allegedly performing surgery first on his right eye, Plaintiff has alleged
facts which could show that Defendants exceeded the scope of his consent. 
 
Second,
Plaintiff has alleged sufficient facts at the pleading stage which could show
deliberate intent. “[I]n a case involving conditional consent, the requisite
element of deliberate intent to deviate from the consent given cannot be presumed
simply from the act itself.” (Dennis v. Southard (2009) 174 Cal.App.540,
544.) Here, Plaintiff alleges that when he entered the operating room, marking
were made on his left-eye. Then:
 
Defendant Dr.
Moayedpardazi [] entered the operating room and placed the surgical instrument
on Plaintiff MORENO’s right eye as opposed to the left eye. Plaintiff MORENO
initially was under the impression that perhaps Defendant Dr. MOAYEDPARDAZI was
merely checking his right eye. It was not until he felt a sharp, intense pain
in his right eye that he realized Defendant Dr. MOAYEDPARDAZI was performing
surgery on the wrong eye. Despite his excruciating pain, Plaintiff MORENO
attempted to alert Defendant Dr. MOAYEDPARDAZI of the error, but she ignored
his protests and hastily exited the operating room.
 
Subsequently,
Plaintiff MORENO tried to communicate his distress to the nurse (hereinafter
referred to as Defendant "Doe 1") who had initially marked his left
eye and administered the numbing drops. Unfortunately, Doe 1 also left the room
following Defendant Dr. MOAYEDPARDAZI, disregarding Plaintiff MORENO's pleas
for assistance. As a result, the selective laser trabeculoplasty was not only
performed on the incorrect eye, but it was also done without the proper
pre-operative markings or numbing drops, causing Plaintiff MORENO to endure
severe pain and discomfort during the procedure.
 
            (Complaint
¶¶ 15-16.)
 
            As
such, Plaintiff alleged facts which could show he only consented to surgery on
his left eye at this stage of the procedure, and that only his left eye was
prepared with drops and visible markings. Despite this, and despite Plaintiff’s
attempts to alert Defendant Dr. Moayedpardazi, Dr. Moayedpardazi ignored his
protests, did not investigate further, and continued to perform surgery on the
incorrect eye, which had neither been marked nor treated with numbing drops. Accepted
as true, this could show that Defendant Dr. Moayedpardazi’s deviation from
Plaintiff’s consent was deliberate. 
 
            Given
this conclusion, Plaintiff has necessarily also alleged sufficient facts to
state a claim for emotional distress. Whether or not Defendant Dr.
Moayedpardazi did, in fact, intend to deviate from Plaintiff’s consent or
inflict emotional distress on Plaintiff is a factual determination not properly
made at this time. Plaintiff alleges that Dr. Moayedpardazi was alerted to the
error, ignored the error, and continued to perform the surgery despite
Plaintiff’s “pleas for assistance.” (Complaint ¶ 16.) Accepted as true,
Plaintiff’s allegations could constitute extreme and outrageous conduct
intended to inflict emotional distress.
                                                                                        
            Based
on the foregoing, Defendants’ demurrer to the second and third causes of action
is overruled. 
 
Motion to Strike 
 
            Defendants
argue that Plaintiff has not alleged sufficient facts to support a prayer for
punitive damages, and Plaintiff has not complied with CCP section 425.13. As
set forth above, the Court overruled Defendants’ demurrer to Plaintiff’s
battery and emotional distress claims. As such, Plaintiff’s claim is not
limited to medical negligence, and thus has not run afoul of section 425.13. 
 
Accepted as
true at the pleading stage, Plaintiff has alleged facts which could show that
Defendants engaged in conduct which is intended by
the defendant to cause injury to the plaintiff or despicable conduct which is
carried on by the defendant with a willful and conscious disregard of the
rights or safety of others. (Civ. Code, § 3294, subd. (c)(1).)
            
            Based on the foregoing, Defendants’
motion to strike is denied.
 
It is so ordered. 
 
Dated:  September   
, 2024
                                                                                                                                                           
   Hon. Jon R.
Takasugi
   Judge of the
Superior Court
 
 
 
Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must
send an email to the court at smcdept17@lacourt.org
by 4 p.m. the day prior as directed by the instructions provided on the court
website at www.lacourt.org.  If a party submits
on the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must
identify the party submitting on the tentative. 
If all parties to a motion submit, the court will adopt this
tentative as the final order.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  For more information, please contact the court clerk at (213) 633-0517.  
 
 
 
            