 Case Number:  23STCV14867    Hearing Date:   March 14, 2024    Dept:  30 Dept.
30 
Calendar
No.
Calva vs. Martinez, et. al.,
Case No. 23STCV14867
 
Tentative Ruling re: 
Defendants’ Motion to Compel Arbitration
 
Defendants TPS Solutions, Inc., TPS
Solutions, Inc. dba Coast Personnel, and Hugo Martinez (collectively,
Defendants) move to compel Plaintiff Saul Calva (Plaintiff) to binding
arbitration and stay this action pending completion of arbitration. The motion
is denied.
 
“On petition of a party to an
arbitration agreement alleging the existence of a written agreement to
arbitrate a controversy and that a party thereto refuses to arbitrate such
controversy, the court shall order the petitioner and the respondent to arbitrate
the controversy if it determines that an agreement to arbitrate the controversy
exists, unless it determines that: (a) The right to compel arbitration has been
waived by the petitioner; or (b) Grounds exist for the revocation of the
agreement.”  (Code Civ. Proc. § 1281.2,
subds. (a), (b).)
A proceeding to compel arbitration is
in essence a suit in equity to compel specific performance of a contract. (Freeman v. State Farm Mutual Auto Insurance
Co. (1975) 14 Cal.3d 473, 479.) Such enforcement may be sought by a party
to the arbitration agreement. (Code Civ. Proc., § 1280, subd. (e)(1).) 
            The petition to compel arbitration
functions as a motion and is to be heard in the manner of a motion, i.e., the
facts are to be proven by affidavit or declaration and documentary evidence
with oral testimony taken only in the court’s discretion. (Code Civ. Proc.,
§1290.2; Rosenthal v. Great Western Fin.
Securities Corp. (1996) 14 Cal.4th 394, 413–414.) The petition to compel
must set forth the provisions of the written agreement and the arbitration
clause verbatim, or such provisions must be attached and incorporated by
reference. (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1330; see Condee v. Longwood Mgmt. Corp. (2001) 88 Cal.App.4th 215, 218 (Condee).)  
            Once petitioners allege that an
arbitration agreement exists, the burden shifts to respondents to prove the
falsity of the purported agreement, and no evidence or authentication is
required to find the arbitration agreement exists. (See Condee, supra, 88
Cal.App.4th at p. 219.) However, if the existence of the agreement is
challenged, “petitioner bears the burden of proving [the arbitration
agreement’s] existence by a preponderance of the evidence.” (Rosenthal v. Great Western Fin. Securities
Corp. (1996) 14 Cal.4th 394, 413; see also Espejo v. Southern California Permanente Medical Group (2016) 246
Cal.App.4th 1047, 1058–1060.)
 
Plaintiff’s Complaint asserts fourteen
causes of action against Defendants, including for assault, battery, sexual harassment,
and discrimination under FEHA, retaliation, and wrongful termination. 
 
Defendants TPS Solutions, Inc. and TPS
Solutions, Inc. dba Coast Personnel (collectively, TPS) are allegedly staffing
agencies. (Comp. ¶¶ 8-9.) Defendant Hugo Martinez (Martinez) is a manager or
supervising agent for TPS. (Comp. ¶ 7.) Plaintiff alleges that he was hired by
Defendants in 2016 to work at Defendants’ auto facility in Valencia,
California. (Comp. ¶ 22.) Martinez became Plaintiff’s manager beginning in
2021. (Comp. ¶¶ 27-28.) Martinez allegedly made a number of harassing and
discriminatory comments towards Plaintiff, retaliated against Plaintiff when
Plaintiff rebuffed Martinez’s offers to meet outside of work, and physically
touched Plaintiff without consent. (Comp. ¶ 30.) As a result of Martinez’s
conduct, Plaintiff resigned in May 2023. (Comp. ¶ 30.)
 
            Defendants move to compel
arbitration based on a “Labor Arbitration Agreement” (the Agreement) between
Plaintiff and Indu-Electric, Inc. (Indu-Electric), executed on September 3,
2019. (Medina Decl. ¶ 2, Ex. 1.) Under the Agreement, Plaintiff and
Indu-Electric “agree to submit to binding arbitration any dispute arising from
[Plaintiff] being utilized by INDU-ELECTRIC, the work conditions of
INDU-ELECTRIC, any dispute regarding any alleged employment relationship
between the Parties, any issues regarding termination of the relationship
between the parties . . ., and any claims or legal actions brought after the
date this Agreement is executed…” (Id. § 2.) Though none of the
Defendants are party to the Agreement, they argue that they may compel
arbitration under it based on equitable estoppel.
 
“In the arbitration
context, a party who has not signed a contract containing an arbitration
clause may nonetheless be compelled to arbitrate when he seeks enforcement of
other provisions of the same contract that benefit him. [Citation.] . . . [T]he equitable estoppel doctrine
applies when a party has signed an agreement to arbitrate but attempts to avoid
arbitration by suing nonsignatory defendants for claims that are ‘based on the
same facts and are inherently inseparable’ from arbitrable claims against
signatory defendants.” (Metalclad
Corp. v. Ventana Environmental Organizational Partnership (2003) 109
Cal.App.4th 1705, 1713.) “Courts
applying equitable estoppel against a signatory have ‘looked to the
relationships of persons, wrongs and issues, in particular whether the claims
that the nonsignatory sought to arbitrate were ‘intimately founded in and
intertwined with the underlying contract obligations.’ ” (Ibid.)
While Defendants cite Garcia
v. Pexco, LLC (2017) 11 Cal.App.5th 782, for the proposition that a
staffing agency may enforce an arbitration agreement as a non-signatory, that
is not an accurate description of the facts of that case. In Garcia, the
plaintiff signed an arbitration agreement with a staffing agency and was
assigned to work for another company, Pexco. (Id. at 784.) The Court of
Appeal found that the non-signatory Pexco could enforce the arbitration
agreement between the plaintiff and the staffing agency based on equitable
estoppel, because “all
of [plaintiff’s] claims are intimately founded in and intertwined with his employment
relationship with [staffing agency], which is governed by the employment
agreement compelling arbitration.” (Id. at 787.) 
The circumstances in this
case differ from Garcia. Here, in contrast, the defendant staffing
agency is seeking to enforce an arbitration agreement between their alleged
employee and another entity. Defendants do not claim that Plaintiff was
employed by Indu-Electric (the Agreement states that “[Plaintiff] acknowledges
that he or she has been offered to INDU-ELECTRIC . . . as leased labor.”).
Crucially, the claims in Plaintiff’s Complaint do not depend on the purported
relationship between Plaintiff and Indu-Electric. Indu-Electric is not named
anywhere in the Complaint; rather, Plaintiff alleges that he was hired and
employed by Defendants, and that Martinez is TPS’s manager or supervising
agent. (Comp. ¶¶ 7, 22.) Defendants
have presented no valid evidence explaining the relationships between
Indu-Electric, TPS, and Plaintiff, and fail to show that Plaintiff’s claims against
them are “based on
the same facts and are inherently inseparable” from arbitrable claims Plaintiff
may assert against Indu-Electric. (Metalclad Corp., 109 Cal.App.4th at
1713.) Because Defendants have shown no grounds for enforcing the Agreement as
non-signatories, the motion is denied.
On reply, Defendants argue they are
entitled to enforce the arbitration agreement as third party
beneficiaries.  Defendants did not raise
this argument in its opening brief, depriving Plaintiff of the opportunity to respond.  The court does not consider this argument.
            Even if the
court considered the argument, Defendants fail to establish third party
beneficiary status.  “A contract, made
expressly for the benefit of a third person, may be enforced by him at any time
before the parties thereto rescind it.” 
(Civil Code §1559.)  “In some
cases, a nonsignatory was required to arbitrate a claim because a benefit was
conferred on the nonsignatory as a result of the contract, making the
nonsignatory a third-party beneficiary of the arbitration agreement.”  (County of Contra Costa v. Kaiser
Foundation Health Plan, Inc. (1996) 47 Cal.App.4th 237, 242.)
            Third
parties do not become “third party beneficiaries” just because a contract
benefits them. A contract must be “made expressly” for the third party's
benefit. The test is “whether an intent to benefit a third person appears from
the terms of the contract.”  (Jensen
v. U-Haul Co. of California (2017) 18 Cal.App.5th 295, 301-302; Pillar
Project AG v. Payward Ventures, Inc. (2021) 64 Cal.App.5th 671 (plaintiff
was not third-party beneficiary to arbitration agreement between
“cryptocurrency exchange” platform and intermediary plaintiff hired to convert
his cryptocurrency into conventional currency).)
            As the
party claiming third party beneficiary status, Defendants TPS and Martinez have
the burden of proving each element of third-party beneficiary status.  (Jones v. Jacobson (2011) 195
Cal.App.4th 1, 15 (“the nonsignatory bears the burden to establish he or she is
a party to the arbitration agreement/provision covering the dispute”).)  Defendants TPS and Martinez fail to make any
cogent argument that they are third party beneficiaries of the Labor
Arbitration Agreement except to say that the agreement should be read to
benefit workers leased to Indu-Electric, like Martinez.  Defendants conclusory statement does not
establish an intent to benefit them in the Labor Arbitration Agreement.   
            Defendants’
request to be deemed third party beneficiaries of the Labor Arbitration
Agreement is denied.  
            Defendants
ask that the court judicially notice the trial court’s order granting TPS’s
motion to compel arbitration in Tarin, which was based on the exact same
Labor Arbitration Agreement and a plaintiff who was also an employee of TPS
leased out to Indu-Electric.  Individual
orders of other trial courts are not authority upon which parties may
rely.  “Trial courts do not make binding
precedents.” (9 Witkin (6th ed. 2021) California Procedure, Appeal
§507.) “When collected and readily available for study,” trial court orders
“may be cited for their persuasive value and are occasionally followed in the
absence of controlling higher authority.” (Id.) However, an isolated
ruling that is not part of a readily available compilation is not citable for
its persuasive value. (Santa Ana Hosp. Med. Center v. Belshé (1997) 56
Cal.App.4th 819, 830.)
            Moreover,
in Tarin, the plaintiff named both TPS and Indu-Electric in the
complaint and alleged that they were both his employers.  (Medina Dec., Ex. 4, 1:25-28.)  Plaintiff did not name Indu-Electric here,
nor has he alleged that they were both his employers.  The trial court found Garcia
controlling and the facts presented in Tarin were in line with those in Garcia.  Here, the same circumstances do not exist,
namely that the joint employment relationship is alleged in the complaint
against TPS and Indu-Electric.  