 Case Number:  23BBCV02702    Hearing Date:   August 16, 2024    Dept:  A LOS
ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT
NORTH
CENTRAL DISTRICT - BURBANK
DEPARTMENT
A
 

TENTATIVE
RULING
AUGUST 16,
2024

DEMURRER
& MOTION TO STRIKE

Los Angeles Superior Court
Case # 23BBCV02702

 
MP:     General Motors, LLC (Defendant)                 
RP:     Bernard
Crowden (Plaintiff) 

 
NOTICE:
 

The Court
is not requesting oral argument on this matter.  The Court is guided by
California Rules of Court, Rule 3.1308(a)(1) whereby notice of intent to appear
is requested.  Unless the Court directs argument in the Tentative Ruling,
no argument is requested and any party seeking argument should notify all other
parties and the court by 4:00 p.m. on the court day before the hearing of the
party’s intention to appear and argue.  The tentative ruling will become
the ruling of the court if no argument is received.   
 
Notice
may be given either by email at BurDeptA@LACourt.org or by telephone at (818)
260-8412.
 
ALLEGATIONS: 
 
Bernard Crowden (Plaintiff)
brings this action against General Motors, LLC (GM) after his purchase of a 2021
Chevrolet Bolt (the Bolt). Plaintiff alleges that GM sold him the Bolt despite
knowing that it suffered from issues with its lithium-ion battery. Plaintiff
states causes of action for (1) Violation Of Song-Beverly Act - Breach Of
Express Warranty, (2) Violation Of Song-Beverly Act - Breach Of Implied
Warranty, (3) Violation Of Song-Beverly Act - Section 1793.2, (4) Fraud -
Affirmative Misrepresentation/Concealment, and (5) Violation Of Business &
Professions Code § 17200. 
 
GM now demurs to the fourth and fifth causes of action (Fraud-Affirmative
Misrepresentation/Concealment, and Violation Of Business & Professions Code
§ 17200). GM also moves to strike Plaintiff’s
request for punitive damages in the Prayer for Relief. Plaintiff opposes the
demurrer and the motion to strike, GM has filed no reply. 
 
ANALYSIS: 
 
I.                   
LEGAL
STANDARDS
 
Demurrer
 
The grounds for a demurrer must appear on the
face of the pleading or from judicially noticeable matters. (C.C.P. §
430.30(a); Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal. 3d 311, 318.) A demurrer for
sufficiency tests whether the complaint states a cause of action. (Hahn v.
Mirda (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747.) The only issue involved in a
demurrer hearing is whether the complaint states a cause of action. (Id.)
 
A demurrer assumes the truth of all factual,
material allegations properly pled in the challenged pleading. (Blank v.
Kirwan, supra, 39 Cal. 3d at p. 318.) No matter how unlikely or improbable,
the plaintiff’s allegations must be accepted as true for the purpose of ruling
on the demurrer. (Del E. Webb Corp. v. Structural Materials Co. (1981)
123 Cal.  App. 3d 593, 604.) But this does not include contentions;
deductions; conclusions of fact or law alleged in the complaint; facts
impossible in law; or allegations contrary to facts of which a court may take
judicial notice.  (Blank, supra, 39 Cal. 3d at 318.)
 
Pursuant to C.C.P. §§ 430.10(e) and (f), the
party against whom a complaint has been filed may demur to the pleading on the
grounds that the pleading does not state facts sufficient to constitute a cause
of action, or that the pleading is uncertain, ambiguous and/or unintelligible.
It is an abuse of discretion to sustain a demurrer without leave to amend if
there is a reasonable probability that the defect can be cured by amendment. (Schifando
v. City of Los Angeles (2003) 31 Cal. 4th 1074, 1082.)
 
Motion
to Strike 
 
Motions
to strike are used to reach defects or objections to pleadings that are not
challengeable by demurrer, such as words, phrases, and prayers for damages.
(See C.C.P. §§ 435, 436, and 437.) The proper procedure to attack false
allegations in a pleading is a motion to strike. (C.C.P. § 436(a).) In granting
a motion to strike made under C.C.P. § 435, “[t]he court may, upon a motion
made pursuant to Section 435 [notice of motion to strike whole or part of
complaint], or at any time in its discretion, and upon terms it deems proper:
(a) Strike out any irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted in any
pleading.” (C.C.P. § 436(a).) Irrelevant matters include immaterial allegations
that are not essential to the claim or those not pertinent to or supported by
an otherwise sufficient claim. (C.C.P. § 431.10.) 
 
The court
may also “[s]trike out all or any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in
conformity with the laws of this state, a court rule, or an order of the court.”
(C.C.P. § 436 (b).)
 
II.                
MERITS 
 
Meet and Confer 
 
C.C.P. §§
430.41(a) and 435.5(a) requires that the moving party meet and confer with the
party who filed the pleading that is subject to the demurrer and/or motion to
strike. Upon review the Court finds the meet and confer requirements were met.
(Park Decl. ¶ 1.) 
 
Fourth COA – Fraud (Affirmative Misrepresentation/ Concealment) –
Overruled 
 
The elements of a fraud claim based on concealment are: “(1) the
defendant must have concealed or suppressed a material fact, (2) the defendant
must have been under a duty to disclose the fact to the plaintiff, (3) the
defendant must have intentionally concealed or suppressed the fact with the
intent to defraud the plaintiff, (4) the plaintiff must have been unaware of
the fact and would not have acted as he did if he had known of the concealed or
suppressed fact, and (5) as a result of the concealment or suppression of the
fact, the plaintiff must have sustained damage.” (Bigler-Engler v. Breg,
Inc. (2017) 7 Cal.App.5th 276, 310-311 [“Bigler-Engler”].)
 
There are “four circumstances in which nondisclosure or concealment may
constitute actionable fraud: (1) when the defendant is in a fiduciary
relationship with the plaintiff; (2) when the defendant had exclusive knowledge
of material facts not known to the plaintiff; (3) when the defendant actively
conceals a material fact from the plaintiff; and (4) when the defendant makes
partial representations but also suppresses some material facts.” (Id.
at 311.) If a fiduciary relationship does not exist, but the latter three
circumstances are present, Plaintiff must still show “the existence of some
other relationship between the plaintiff and defendant from which a duty to
disclose can arise.” (Id.)
 
GM argues that Plaintiff has (1) pled the facts of the alleged fraud with
insufficient particularity, (2) has not sufficiently alleged GM’s prior
knowledge of the defect, and (3) has not pled a transactional relationship
between himself and GM. The Court addresses each of these arguments in turn. 
 
Specificity of Pleading
 
GM
argues Plaintiff does not allege a material misrepresentation with sufficient
specificity. GM cites Linear
Tech. Corp. v. Applied Materials, Inc. (2007) 152 Cal. App.4th 115, 132
which held “[M]ere conclusionary allegations that the omissions are intentional
and for the purpose of defrauding and deceiving plaintiff and bringing about
the purchase … and that plaintiff relied on the omissions in making such
purchase are insufficient [to show fraud by concealment].” 
 
GM alleges Plaintiff failed to plead “(1) the identity of the GM
employee that made the representations to, or concealed the facts from,
Plaintiff, (2) the employee’s authority to speak and act on behalf of GM, (3)
GM’s knowledge about alleged defects in the Bolt at the time of Plaintiff’s
purchase, (4) what specific GM representations were reviewed and relied upon in
purchasing the Subject Vehicle, (5) how long prior to purchasing the Subject
Vehicle the representations were reviewed, if even reviewed pre-purchase, and
which representation therein was relied upon, and (6) whether those materials
were prepared by GM or someone else.”
(Dem. pg. 13.) 
 
The Court finds the allegations of the Complaint are pleaded with the
requisite specificity for an action for fraud sounding in concealment. Rules of specifically pleading how, when, where, to whom, and by
what means, misrepresentations were communicated, are intended to apply to
affirmative misrepresentations, and not to concealment. (See Alfaro v.
Community Housing Improvement System & Planning Assn., Inc. (2009) 171
Cal. App. 4th 1356, 1384.) 
 
Here,
Plaintiff alleges that GM specifically marketed the Bolt as possessing a
long-lasting lithium-ion battery suitable for long distances. (Compl.
¶¶ 26, 35.) Plaintiff alleges these features were held out to the public
in various marketing materials by GM. (Id.) Plaintiff also alleges that in October
2019, GM employee Adam Piper was made available by GM to answer questions
regarding the Bolt’s battery at an event hosted by GM. (Compl. ¶ 24.)
Plaintiff alleges that Adam Piper represented that the battery of the Bolt was
designed to be fully charged, despite GM’s knowledge that the battery was
unsafe at full charge. (Id.) 
 
The Court finds these allegations are sufficiently
particular to sustain a cause of action based on concealment of material fact.
While it is not clear to whom Adam Piper’s statements were made, it is clear
the statements were made with the purpose of inducing the public to purchase the
Bolt. Further, the allegations indicate that the knowledge of any defect would
have likely been exclusively within GM’s knowledge at the time the Bolt was
being marketed and sold. As Alfaro makes
clear, the usually stringent requirements in pleading fraud are relaxed when the
facts appear to lie more within the exclusive knowledge of the defendant. (Alfaro supra, 171 Cal.App.4th at 1384.) 
 
Prior Knowledge 
 
GM also argues Plaintiff has failed to plead that GM was aware of any
defect prior to making these representations. The Court finds this argument
unpersuasive. 
 
Plaintiff alleges that in December 2016, GM first became aware of issues
with the battery in the Bolt and instituted a Battery Exchange and Internal
Parts Process to replace defective batteries. (Compl. ¶ 16.) Plaintiff
further alleges that GM continued to experience issues with the Bolt’s battery
throughout 2018. (Compl. ¶ 20.) Plaintiff further alleges that, in March
2019, GM became aware of the first battery fire involving the Bolt. (Compl.
¶ 23.) All of these factual allegations are sufficient to support
Plaintiff’s claim that GM knew of the defective battery but continued to sell
the Bolt to the general public. 
 
GM’s argument that the allegations in the Complaint refer to a previous
model year of the Bolt is unpersuasive. Whether Plaintiff’s Bolt actually
suffered the issues that GM was aware of is a matter not resolvable on
demurrer. This demurrer is merely concerned with whether Plaintiff has pled
ultimate facts as to GM’s knowledge of a battery defect. The Court finds
Plaintiff has done so. 
 
Transactional Relationship & Duty to Disclose
 
GM lastly argues Plaintiff has not alleged a relationship between them
sufficient to establish GM’s duty to disclose. GM relies primarily on the
decision in Bigler-Engler which held the following: 
 
“In transactions which do not involve
fiduciary or confidential relations, a cause of action for non-disclosure of
material facts may arise in at least three instances: (1) the defendant makes
representations but does not disclose facts which materially qualify the facts
disclosed, or which render his disclosure likely to mislead; (2) the facts are
known or accessible only to defendant, and defendant knows they are not known
to or reasonably discoverable by the plaintiff; (3) the defendant actively
conceals discovery from the plaintiff.”[Citation].
 
A duty to disclose may arise as a result of a
transaction between the parties. However, the transaction “…must necessarily
arise from direct dealings between the plaintiff and the defendant; it cannot
arise between the defendant and the public at large.” 
 
(Bigler-Engler supra, 7 Cal.App.5th 276 at 311-312.) 
 
The Court notes this issue was addressed by
the decision in Dhital v.
Nissan North America, Inc., wherein the plaintiffs sued Nissan North
America, Inc. alleging a transmission defect. The plaintiffs alleged claims
under the Song-Beverly Consumer Warranty Act and a common law fraud claim
alleging that Nissan fraudulently concealed the defects and induced them to
purchase a car. (Dhital v. Nissan North America, Inc. (2022) 84
Cal.App.5th 828, 838). The California Supreme Court granted review of Dhital on
February 1, 2023, however, the request to depublish was denied. Since review is
pending and the Supreme Court did not otherwise order, Dhital does not
have binding effect, however, “it may be cited for potentially persuasive value
only.” (CRC, Rule 8.1115 (e)(1).)
 
Although Dhital
is currently on review and has no binding precedential value, the Court finds
its analysis persuasive. The Dhital court held plaintiffs sufficiently
alleged a transactional relationship because they alleged that they bought the
car from a Nissan dealership, that the car was backed by Nissan warranty, and
that Nissan dealerships are authorized agents. (Dhital supra, 84 Cal.App.5th 828 at 844.) 
 
Plaintiff
is not required to allege evidentiary facts supporting the existence of an
agency relationship, only allegations of ultimate fact. (Quelimane Co. v.
Stewart Title Guaranty Co. (1998) 19 Cal. 4th 26, 47). An allegation of
agency is an allegation of ultimate fact that must be accepted as true for
purposes of ruling on a demurrer. (Dones v. Life Ins. Co. of North America (2020) 55
Cal.App.5th 665, 685.)
  
Here, Plaintiff alleges the dealership, Community Chevrolet
Company (the dealership), is “an authorized retail dealer and agent of”
GM. (Compl. ¶ 6.) Plaintiff alleges that GM holds out its dealerships online
without disclaiming that they are not agents of GM. (Id.) Plaintiff
alleges the dealership personnel were represented to him the Bolt range was
safe and long-range capable. (Compl. ¶ 26.) The Court finds Plaintiff has
sufficiently pleaded the ultimate fact that the dealership was an agent of GM
such that a transactional relationship between Plaintiff and GM existed. 
 
In short, the
Court finds Plaintiff has sufficiently pled his cause of action for fraudulent
concealment. Accordingly, the demurrer to the fourth cause of action is
OVERRULED. 
 
Fifth COA –
Violations of the UCL – Overruled 
 
GM demurrers
to this cause of action on grounds that Plaintiff has not pled any unlawful or
fraudulent activity within the meaning of the UCL. GM further demurs on grounds
that Plaintiff has not pled the availability of injunctive relief. 
 
“California
Business and Professions Code §§ 17000, et seq…states…that unfair competition
shall mean and include unlawful, unfair or fraudulent business practices…A
plaintiff alleging unfair business practices under these statutes must state
with reasonable particularity the facts supporting the statutory elements of
the violation.” (Khoury v. Maly’s of California, Inc. (1993) 14
Cal.App.4th 612, 618-619.) The Court notes that “[b]ecause Business and
Professions Code section 17200 is written in the disjunctive, it establishes
three varieties of unfair competition-acts or practices which are unlawful, or
unfair, or fraudulent. An act can be alleged to violate any or all of the three
prongs of the UCL-unlawful, unfair, or fraudulent.” (Berryman v. Merit
Property Management, Inc. (2007) 152 Cal.App.4th 1544, 1554 [internal
quotation marks and citation omitted].)
 
Here, the
Court finds that Plaintiff has adequately alleged unlawful behavior in the form
of Song Beverly Violations as well as its Fraud Causes of action. “By
proscribing any unlawful business practice, section 17200 borrows’ violations
of other laws and treats them as unlawful practices that the unfair competition
law makes independently actionable. Thus, a violation of another law is a
predicate for stating a cause of action under the UCL’s unlawful prong.” (Rubenstein
v. The Gap, Inc. (2017) 14 Cal.App.5th 870, 879-880 [internal quotation
marks and citations omitted].) Given that Plaintiff has adequately pled
unlawful behavior, GM’s argument as to the lack of unfair behavior is moot. 
 
GM further
argues that Plaintiff has not pled the existence of an equitable remedy. The UCL
provides only two remedies to redress its violations: (1) injunctive relief to
prevent’ practices of unfair competition and (2) restitution to restore to any
person in interest any money or property acquired through unfair practices. (Korea
Supply Co. v. Lockheed Martin Corp., (2003) 29 Cal. 4th 1134, 1147). GM
argues that Plaintiff must show the unavailability of a legal remedy to be
entitled to a remedy under the UCL. (Knox v. Phoenix Leasing, Inc.
(1994) 29 Cal. App.4th1357, 1368.) Whether Plaintiff can demonstrate the
unavailability of a legal remedy is a matter not suited for resolution on
demurrer. A demurrer is purely concerned with the sufficiency of the pleadings.
As outlined below Plaintiff has sufficiently pled an equitable remedy. 
 
Here,
Plaintiff has pled no basis for equitable relief by way of injunction. Indeed,
Plaintiff specifically alleges that GM has already acknowledged the Battery
Defect in Bolt vehicles and issued a recall such that injunctions would be
without purpose. (Compl. ¶ 30.) Regardless, Plaintiff has still specifically
pled that they are entitled to restitution in the amount paid for the vehicle.
(Compl. ¶¶ 49, 53, 56, 132.) GM’s demurrer does not address the availability of
restitution at all, simply concluding that the cause of action must fail
because an injunction is not available. As Plaintiff has pled entitlement to
restitution, their claim for violation of the UCL survives. 
 
Accordingly,
the demurrer to the fifth cause of action is OVERRULED. 
 
Motion to
Strike 
 
Here, GM bases its Motion to Strike Plaintiff’s
prayer for Punitive Damages on the argument that Plaintiff has not pleaded
the fraud cause of action with the specificity required. Plaintiff’s
prayer for punitive damages, and GM’s argument against it, are intrinsically
intertwined with the fraudulent concealment cause of action, and as such, the Court’s
ruling as to the Motion to Strike is determined by the Court’s ruling of
the demurrer. As such, the Motion to Strike is DENIED.
 
---
 
RULING:
 
In the event the parties submit on this
tentative ruling, or a party requests a signed order or the Court in its
discretion elects to sign a formal order, the following form will be either
electronically signed or signed in hard copy and entered into the Court’s
records. 
 
ORDER
 
General Motors, LLC’ s Demurrer
and Motion to Strike came on regularly for hearing on August 16, 2024,
with appearances/submissions as noted in the minute order for said hearing, and
the Court, being fully advised in the premises, did then and there rule as
follows:
 
THE
DEMURRER TO THE FOURTH CAUSE OF ACTION IS OVERRULED.
 
THE
DEMURRER TO THE FIFTH CAUSE OF ACTION IS OVERRULED. 
 
THE
MOTION TO STRIKE IS DENIED. 
 
UNLESS ALL PARTIES WAIVE NOTICE, GM TO GIVE
NOTICE. 