 Case Number:  24BBCP00030    Hearing Date:   August 16, 2024    Dept:  A LOS
ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT
NORTH
CENTRAL DISTRICT - BURBANK
DEPARTMENT
A
 

TENTATIVE
RULING
AUGUST 16,
2024

PETITION
TO ENFORCE ARBITRATION

Los Angeles Superior Court
Case # 24BBCP00030

 



MP:  


Jason Craig (Petitioner) 




RP:  


Michael Philbeck (Respondent) [No
  Opposition Filed]



 
NOTICE:
 

The Court is not
requesting oral argument on this matter.  The Court is guided by
California Rules of Court, Rule 3.1308(a)(1) whereby notice of intent to appear
is requested.  Unless the Court directs argument in the Tentative Ruling,
no argument is requested and any party seeking argument should notify all other
parties and the court by 4:00 p.m. on the court day before the hearing of the
party’s intention to appear and argue.  The tentative ruling will become
the ruling of the court if no argument is received.   
 
Notice may be given
either by email at BurDeptA@LACourt.org or by telephone at (818) 260-8412.
 
ALLEGATIONS: 
 
Jason Craig
(Petitioner) seeks an order from the Court compelling Michael D. Philbeck
(Respondent) to arbitrate claims between them. Petitioner states that there are
claims regarding his purchase of property from Respondent that must be
arbitrated per the California Residential Purchase Agreement (the Agreement)
entered into by both parties. Respondent has not opposed this petition. 
 
The Court previously
denied, without prejudice, the petition on grounds that Respondent had not been
served in the matter. (See March 15, 2024 Minute Order) On April 14, 2024,
Petitioner filed proof of service on Respondent. The petition was then set to
be heard on May 17, 2024. Thereafter, Respondent filed a stipulation between
the parties to continue the May 17 hearing to August 16, 2024, so that the
parties could attempt to mediate the case. Neither Petitioner nor Respondent
have filed any documents regarding mediation. Respondent has filed no
opposition to the petition to compel arbitration.  
  
ANALYSIS: 
 
I.                   
LEGAL
STANDARD 
 
“Code of
Civil Procedure section 1281.2 requires a trial court to grant a petition to
compel arbitration if the court determines that an agreement to arbitrate the
controversy exists.” (Avery v. Integrated Healthcare Holdings, Inc.
(2013) 218 Cal.App.4th 50, 59, [quotations omitted].) Accordingly, “when
presented with a petition to compel arbitration, the court’s first task is to
determine whether the parties have in fact agreed to arbitrate the dispute.” (Id.)
A petition to compel arbitration is in essence a suit in equity to compel
specific performance of a contract. (Id. at 71.) 
 
As with
any other specific performance claim, “a party seeking to enforce an
arbitration agreement must show the agreement’s terms are sufficiently definite
to enable the court to know what it is to enforce.” (Id. [internal
citations omitted].) “Only the valid and binding agreement of the parties,
including all material terms well-defined and clearly expressed, may be ordered
specifically performed.” (Id.) An arbitration agreement “must be so
interpreted as to give effect to the mutual intention of the parties as it
existed at the time of contracting, so far as the same is ascertainable and
lawful.” (Civ. Code § 1636.) 
 
The
language of the contract governs its interpretation if it is clear and
explicit. (Civ. Code § 1368.) If uncertainty exists, “the language of a
contract should be interpreted most strongly against the party who caused the
uncertainty to exist.” (Civ. Code § 1654.)
 
The party
seeking to compel arbitration bears the burden of proving the existence of a
valid arbitration agreement by the preponderance of the evidence. (Engalla
v. Permanente Medical Group, Inc. (1997) 15 Cal.4th 951, 972.) It would
then be plaintiff’s burden, in opposing the motion, to prove by a preponderance
of the evidence any fact necessary to her opposition. (See Id.) “In
these summary proceedings, the trial court sits as a trier of fact, weighing
all the affidavits, declarations, and other documentary evidence, as well as
oral testimony received at the court’s discretion, to reach a final
determination.” (Id.)
 
Further,
C.C.P. § 1281.2 requires a party seeking to compel arbitration “to plead and
prove a prior demand for arbitration under the parties' arbitration agreement
and a refusal to arbitrate under the agreement.” (Mansouri v. Superior Court
(2010) 181 Cal.App.4th 633, 640-41 [“...if proof of a demand and refusal to
arbitrate under the agreement is a necessary prerequisite to a petition to
compel arbitration under section 1281.2, the failure to prove such demand and
refusal is a failure to state a cause of action—a fundamental error that
permits us to review the issue despite a party's failure to raise the theory in
the trial court.”].)
 
II.                
MERITS 
 
Analysis 
 
Petitioner seeks to
arbitrate his claims that Respondent failed to disclose the guest house of the
Subject Property had been converted from a garage without plans and permits.
(Craig Decl. ¶ 3.) Petitioner has shown that he and Respondent entered into
an agreement for the purchase of real property identified as 4833 Willowcrest,
North Hollywood, CA 91601 (Subject Property). (Craig Decl. ¶, Exh. 1.) This
agreement contained an arbitration clause that reads in relevant part as
follows: 
 
The Parties agree that any dispute or claim in Law or equity
arising between them out of this Agreement or any resulting transaction, which
is not settled through mediation, shall be decided by neutral, binding
arbitration. The Parties also agree to arbitrate any disputes or claims with
Broker(s), who, in writing, agree to such arbitration prior to, or within a
reasonable time after, the dispute or claim is presented to the Broker. The
arbitrator shall be a retired judge or justice, or an attorney with at least 5
years of residential real estate Law experience, unless the parties mutually
agree to a different arbitrator. The Parties shall have the right to discovery
in accordance with Code of Civil Procedure §1283.05. In all other respects, the
arbitration shall be conducted in accordance with Title 9 of Part 3 of the Code
of Civil Procedure. Judgment upon the award of the arbitrator(s) may be entered
into any court having jurisdiction. Enforcement of this agreement to arbitrate
shall be governed by the Federal Arbitration Act. 
 
The Court finds the
attachment of the agreement and its language are sufficient to satisfy
Petitioner’s burden to show an agreement to arbitrate. By virtue of his nonresponse,
Respondent has failed to carry his burden to prove any fact necessary to refute
the existence of an agreement. 
 
Petitioner further states
that despite several demands to arbitrate, Respondent has refused. On August
29, 2023 Petitioner’s counsel mailed a demand letter to respondent. (Baker
Decl. ¶ 2, Exh. 2.) Petitioner’s counsel subsequently emailed the letter
to Respondent’s real estate broker, who later confirmed it was forwarded to
Respondent. (Baker Decl. ¶¶ 3-4.) On October 2, 2023, Petitioner again
mailed his demand letter, this time to a home address for Respondent obtained
via skip trace. (Baker Decl. ¶ 5.) The Court finds the notices sent to
Respondent are satisfactory in accordance with the prior demand requirements of
C.C.P. § 1281.2. 
 
Accordingly, the petition
is GRANTED. 
 
Appointment of Arbitrator 
 
CCP § 1281.6 provides that:
 
If the arbitration
agreement does not provide a method for appointing an arbitrator, the parties
to the agreement who seek arbitration and against whom arbitration is sought
may agree on a method of appointing an arbitrator and that method shall be
followed. In the absence of an agreed method, or if the agreed method fails or
for any reason cannot be followed, or when an arbitrator appointed fails to act
and his or her successor has not been appointed, the court, on petition of a
party to the arbitration agreement, shall appoint the arbitrator.
 
When a petition is made to
the court to appoint a neutral arbitrator, the court shall nominate five
persons from lists of persons supplied jointly by the parties to the
arbitration or obtained from a governmental agency concerned with arbitration
or private disinterested association concerned with arbitration. The parties to
the agreement who seek arbitration and against whom arbitration is sought may,
within five days of receipt of notice of the nominees from the court, jointly
select the arbitrator whether or not the arbitrator is among the nominees. If
the parties fail to select an arbitrator within the five-day period, the court
shall appoint the arbitrator from the nominees.
 
As there is no agreement
between the parties, the Court shall appoint an arbitrator by this method. The
Court will set an OSC re: Appointment of Arbitrator for September 18, 2024.
Petitioner is ordered to give notice and meet and confer with Respondent
regarding a mutually agreeable arbitrator. The parties shall provide a list of
at least five persons five days prior to the hearing. If the parties cannot
agree on an arbitrator, the Court will appoint an arbitrator from the nominees.

 
Request for Costs as
Sanctions 
 
Pursuant to C.C.P. §
680.230 “judgment” means a judgment, order, or decree entered in a court of
this state. Although not every order is automatically converted into an
enforceable judgment, an order awarding costs pursuant to a petition to compel
arbitration is the equivalent of an enforceable money judgment. (See Otay
River Constructors v. San Diego Expressway (2008) 158 Cal.App.4th 796, 804
["Where an action is brought solely to compel arbitration of contractual
disputes between the parties,... a party who succeeds in obtaining an order
denying the petition to compel arbitration is a prevailing party in the action
on the contract even though the merits of the parties' underlying contractual
disputes have not yet been resolved ..."]; see also Benjamin, Weill
& Mazer v. Kors (2011) 195 Cal.App.4th 40, 77 [same applies where the
motion to compel arbitration is granted].)
 
Here, the
Court finds that Petitioner is entitled to costs as the result of his
successful petition to compel arbitration. Thus, the Court awards costs in the
amount of $546.50. (Baker Decl. ¶ 9(b).) While Petitioner also requests an
award of $4,950 in attorney’s fees, he does not present any statutory grounds
for such an award nor present any authority demonstrating he is so entitled. As
such, the Court denies this request. 
--- 
 
RULING:
 
In the
event the parties submit on this tentative ruling, or a party requests a signed
order or the court in its discretion elects to sign a formal order, the
following form will be either electronically signed or signed in hard copy and
entered into the court’s records. 
 
ORDER 
 
Jason Craig’s Petition
to Enforce Arbitration came on regularly for hearing
on August 16, 2024, with appearances/submissions as noted in the minute order
for said hearing, and the court, being fully advised in the premises, did then
and there rule as follows: 
 
THE PETITION TO ENFORCE ARBITRATION IS GRANTED.  
 
COSTS ARE AWARDED IN THE AMOUNT OF $546.50 TO BE
PAID WITHIN 30 DAYS.
 
THE COURT SETS AN OSC RE: APPOINTMENT OF
ARBITRATOR FOR SEPTEMBER 18, 2024 AT 9:00 A.M. 
PARTIES ARE ORDERED TO MEET AND CONFER REGARDING APPOINTMENT OF AN
ARBITRATOR PURSUANT TO THE CRITERIA SET FOR THE IN THE AGREEMENT.
 
ORDER TO SHOW CAUSE RE:  CONFIRMATION OF ARIBTRATION AWARD OR
DISMISSAL (SETTLEMENT) IS SET FOR AUGUST 14, 2025 AT 9:00 AM.
 
IT IS SO
ORDERED. 
 
DATE: 
August 16, 2024                            _______________________________ 
                                                                   
    F.M.
TAVELMAN, Judge 
Superior Court of California 
County of
Los Angeles 
 
 