 Case Number:  24BBCV00094    Hearing Date:   August 16, 2024    Dept:  A LOS
ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT
NORTH
CENTRAL DISTRICT - BURBANK
DEPARTMENT
A
 

TENTATIVE
RULING
AUGUST 16,
2024

MOTION TO
COMPEL FURTHER RESPONSES

Los Angeles Superior Court
Case # 24BBCV00094




 
MP:  


 
Georgia Durante (Plaintiff)




RP:  


Hyundai Motor America (Defendant)



 
NOTICE:
 

The Court is not
requesting oral argument on this matter.  The Court is guided by
California Rules of Court, Rule 3.1308(a)(1) whereby notice of intent to appear
is requested.  Unless the Court directs argument in the Tentative Ruling,
no argument is requested and any party seeking argument should notify all other
parties and the court by 4:00 p.m. on the court day before the hearing of the
party’s intention to appear and argue.  The tentative ruling will become
the ruling of the court if no argument is received.   
 
Notice may be given
either by email at BurDeptA@LACourt.org or by telephone at (818) 260-8412.
 
ALLEGATIONS: 
 
Georgia Durante (Plaintiff) brings this action against Hyundai Motor
America (Hyundai) for claims arising out of the
purchase of a 2016 Hyundai Tuscon (the Subject Vehicle). The Complaint alleges
several causes of action for violation of the Song-Beverly Consumer Warranty
Act. 
 
Before the Court is a
motion to compel further responses to Plaintiff’s Request for the Production of
Documents (RFPD). Hyundai opposes the motion and Plaintiff replies. 
 
ANALYSIS: 
 
I.                   
LEGAL
STANDARD 
 
A motion
to compel further responses to RFPD may be brought based on: (1) incomplete
statements of compliance; (2) inadequate, evasive, or incomplete claims of
inability to comply; or (3) unmerited or overly generalized objections. 
(C.C.P. § 2031.310(c).) 
 
A motion
to compel further production must set forth specific facts showing good cause
justifying the discovery sought by the inspection demand. (See C.C.P. §
2031.310(b)(1).) In Digital Music News LLC v Superior Court (2014) 226
Cal.App.4th 216 at 224, the Court defined “good cause” as a showing that there
“a disputed fact that is of consequence in the action and the discovery sought
will tend in reason to prove or disprove that fact or lead to other evidence
that will tend to prove or disprove the fact.”  If the moving party
has shown good cause for the requests for production, the burden is on the
objecting party to justify the objections. (Kirkland v. Sup.Ct (2002) 95
Cal. App.4th 92, 98.) 
 
II.                
MERITS 
 
Timeline 
 
On April 2, 2024 Plaintiff
served their RFPD on Hyundai. (Stoliker Decl ¶ 20.) On May 6, 2024,
Hyundai served objection only responses to each of the 144 RFPD. (Stoliker
Decl. ¶ 23, Exh. 5.) 
On June 7, 2024, Plaintiff
sent Hyundai’s counsel a meet and confer letter detailing the perceived
insufficiencies of Hyundai’s response. (Stoliker Decl. Exh. 9.) On June 12,
2024, Hyundai responded that they intended to file a motion to compel
arbitration which would moot the discovery demands. (Mayo Decl. ¶ 8.) Plaintiff
replied that she would move to compel further responses unless Hyundai agreed
to supplemental responses. (Stoliker Decl., Exh. 13.) Plaintiff states that Hyundai
has produced no responsive documents as of Plaintiff’s filing this motion.
(Stoliker Decl. ¶ 25.)
 
Discussion 
 
Hyundai argues that the
present motion is premature by virtue of their pending motion to compel
arbitration. The Court agrees that the filing of a motion to stay the matter
pending a motion to compel arbitration necessarily stays the discovery process.
 
Hyundai cites to clear
authority providing that a trial court is required to stay an action while an
application to arbitrate the subject matter of the action is pending. (See Twentieth
Century Fox Film Corp. v. Superior Court (2000) 79 Cal.App.4th 188,
193.) This authority derives directly from the language of C.C.P. § 1281.4
which reads as follows: 
 
If a court of competent jurisdiction, whether in this State or
not, has ordered arbitration of a controversy which is an issue involved in an
action or proceeding pending before a court of this State, the court in which
such action or proceeding is pending shall, upon motion of a party to such
action or proceeding, stay the action or proceeding until an arbitration is had
in accordance with the order to arbitrate or until such earlier time as the
court specifies.
 
If an application has been made to a court of competent
jurisdiction, whether in this State or not, for an order to arbitrate a
controversy which is an issue involved in an action or proceeding pending
before a court of this State and such application is undetermined, the court in
which such action or proceeding is pending shall, upon motion of a party to
such action or proceeding, stay the action or proceeding until the application
for an order to arbitrate is determined and, if arbitration of such controversy
is ordered, until an arbitration is had in accordance with the order to
arbitrate or until such earlier time as the court specifies.
 
If the issue which is the controversy subject to arbitration is
severable, the stay may be with respect to that issue only.
 
The Court acknowledges that
at the time of Plaintiff’s filing this motion, no motion to compel arbitration
was filed. Regardless, the fact remains that Hyundai’s subsequently filed a
motion to compel arbitration and to stay the instant matter. Twentieth Century
Fox and C.C.P. § 1281.4 make clear that this filing functions to stay all
discovery matters in this case pending the resolution of the motion to compel. Further,
Hyundai clearly signaled their intent to file a motion to compel arbitration in
their meet and confer correspondence and their discovery responses. Moreover, Hyundai
has indicated that, should their motion to compel arbitration be denied, they
are willing to produce amended responses within three weeks. (Mayo Decl.
¶ 11.)  
 
Given the stay on discovery
matters, the Court is inclined to continue this motion until after the
determination of Hyundai’s motion to compel. The motion to compel is currently
set for hearing on September 6, 2024. As such, the Court continues the motion
to compel further responses to October 4, 2024. 
--- 
 
RULING:
 
In the
event the parties submit on this tentative ruling, or a party requests a signed
order or the court in its discretion elects to sign a formal order, the
following form will be either electronically signed or signed in hard copy and
entered into the court’s records. 
 
ORDER 
 
Georgia Durante’s Motion
to Compel Further Responses came on regularly for
hearing on August 16, 2024 with appearances/submissions as noted in the minute
order for said hearing, and the court, being fully advised in the premises, did
then and there rule as follows:  
 
THE MOTION TO
COMPEL FURTHER RESPONSES IS CONTINUED TO OCTOBER 4, 2024 AT 9:00 A.M. 
 
ALL OTHER DATES
REMAIN. 
 
DEFENDANT HYUNDAI
TO GIVE NOTICE.
 