 Case Number:  22STCV13111    Hearing Date:   August 16, 2024    Dept:  A LOS
ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT
NORTH
CENTRAL DISTRICT - BURBANK
DEPARTMENT
A
 

TENTATIVE
RULING
AUGUST 16,
2024

MOTION
TO AUTHORIZE ADULT PROTECTIVE SERVICES DISCLOSURE

Los Angeles Superior Court
Case # 22STCV13111

 



MP:  


THC Orange County, LLC dba Kindred
  Hospital Los Angeles (Defendant)




RP:  


County of Los Angeles Adult
  Protective Services (Non-Party) [No Response]



NOTICE:
 

The Court is not
requesting oral argument on this matter.  The Court is guided by
California Rules of Court, Rule 3.1308(a)(1) whereby notice of intent to appear
is requested.  Unless the Court directs argument in the Tentative Ruling,
no argument is requested and any party seeking argument should notify all other
parties and the court by 4:00 p.m. on the court day before the hearing of the
party’s intention to appear and argue.  The tentative ruling will become
the ruling of the court if no argument is received.   
 
Notice may be given
either by email at BurDeptA@LACourt.org or by telephone at (818) 260-8412.
 
ALLEGATIONS: 
 
Anita
Aslanyan (Plaintiff) brings this action against Providence St. Joseph Health
Center (Providence) and THC Orange County,
LLC dba Kindred Hospital Los Angeles (THC). Plaintiff alleges that Providence
and THC failed to properly care for her deceased father Razmik Aslanyan
(Decedent). Plaintiff states a singular cause of action for professional
negligence. 
 
Before the Court is a
motion made by THC to authorize the County of Los Angeles Adult Protective
Services (APS) to disclose various investigative reports concerning Decedent.
THC argues these reports are necessary to show that Plaintiff was financially
abusing Decedent. Plaintiff has filed no opposition to this motion. APS has
also filed no response to this motion, presumably because they were not served
with notice. 
 
ANALYSIS: 
 
The Court
begins with an analysis of the grounds for THC’s motion. THC seeks a Court
order requiring the disclosure of investigative reports generated by Adult
Protective Services. THC states the grounds for their motion is 5 USC
552a(b)(11). This code section is commonly referred to as the Freedom of
Information Act. 5 USC 552a(b)(11) states:
 
No agency shall disclose any record which is
contained in a system of records by any means of communication to any person,
or to another agency, except pursuant to a written request by, or with the
prior written consent of, the individual to whom the record pertains, unless
disclosure of the record would be…pursuant to the order of a court of competent
jurisdiction…
 
The
Freedom of Information Act is not applicable to California public
agencies.  In California, motions seeking
document requests from nonparties are typically brought pursuant to C.C.P. §§
2020.010 and 2025.480(a). (See Sears, Roebuck & Co. v. National Union
Fire Insurance Company of Pittsburgh (2005) 131 Cal.App.4th 1342, 1350
[discovery from nonparties is governed by C.C.P. §§ 2020.010, et seq., and is
primarily carried out by way of subpoena]; C.C.P. § 245.580(a) [If a deponent
fails to answer any question or to produce any document, the party seeking
discovery may move the court for an order compelling that answer or
production.].)  Requests for documents
from state and county agencies would be governed by the Public Records Act
codified under the California Government Code.  
The moving party does not cite to or argue disclosure under the Public
Records Act, nor, as indicated herein, property notice the involved public
agency.
 
The above
C.C.P sections explicitly authorize motions to compel production from a
non-party and have an established judicial framework by which the Court can
evaluate such motions. THC’s vague request for a court order compelling APS to
produce documents is without such statutory basis or judicial framework.
Further, the Court cannot treat this motion as though it were brought pursuant
to C.C.P. § 2025.480(a) because THC did not serve a deposition subpoena upon
APS. 
 
The
statutes relied upon in THC’s brief also do not authorize this motion. THC
cites to Welfare and Inst. Code (WIC) § 15633. This code section does not
establish grounds for THC’s motion. WIC § 15633, merely permits an agency to
disclose information if they are presented with a court order to do so. THC
also cites to WIC § 10850(a) which permits an agency to disclose otherwise
confidential information in the context of a criminal prosecution for violation
of Penal Code § 368. This statute is entirely inapplicable to this civil action
for negligence. 
 
Even if
THC has served a deposition subpoena and brought this motion pursuant to the
correct authority, the fact remains that they did not serve notice of this
motion on APS. It is axiomatic that a crucial component of any motion asking
the Court to compel production must be served on the person/entity who would be
bound by the order. 
 
Given
THC’s motion is procedurally defective in several manners, the motion is
DENIED. 
 
--- 
 
RULING:
 
In the
event the parties submit on this tentative ruling, or a party requests a signed
order or the court in its discretion elects to sign a formal order, the
following form will be either electronically signed or signed in hard copy and
entered into the court’s records. 
 
ORDER 
 
THC Orange County,
LLC dba Kindred Hospital Los Angeles’s Motion to Authorize Disclosure came on regularly for hearing on August 16, 2024, with
appearances/submissions as noted in the minute order for said hearing, and the
court, being fully advised in the premises, did then and there rule as follows: 
 
THE MOTION IS DENIED.  
 
THC TO
GIVE NOTICE. 
 
IT IS SO
ORDERED. 
 