 Case Number:  23BBCV01302    Hearing Date:   August 16, 2024    Dept:  A LOS
ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT
NORTH
CENTRAL DISTRICT - BURBANK
DEPARTMENT
A
 

TENTATIVE
RULING
AUGUST 16,
2024

MOTIONS
TO COMPEL DISCOVERY RESPONSES 

Los Angeles Superior Court
Case # 23BBCV01302

 



MP:  


Interinsurance Exchange of the Automobile
  Club as subrogee of Robert and Ilene Dickman (Plaintiff) 




RP:  


Smart Construction and Design (Defendant)
  [No Response]



 
NOTICE:
 

The Court is not
requesting oral argument on this matter.  The Court is guided by
California Rules of Court, Rule 3.1308(a)(1) whereby notice of intent to appear
is requested.  Unless the Court directs argument in the Tentative Ruling,
no argument is requested and any party seeking argument should notify all other
parties and the court by 4:00 p.m. on the court day before the hearing of the
party’s intention to appear and argue.  The tentative ruling will become
the ruling of the court if no argument is received.   
 
Notice may be given
either by email at BurDeptA@LACourt.org or by telephone at (818) 260-8412.
 
ALLEGATIONS: 
 
Interinsurance Exchange
of the Automobile Club as subrogee of Robert and Ilene Dickman (Plaintiff) brings this action
against Smart Construction and Design (Defendant) for
claims arising out of a fire which destroyed the home of subrogees. Specifically,
Plaintiff alleges that Defendant permitted the negligent use of a blow torch while
repairing the roof of subrogees house. The roof subsequently caught fire and
resulted in Plaintiff indemnifying subrogees in the amount of $722,682.72. Defendant is a sole proprietorship
of Gil Arava, who appears in this matter in pro per. 
 
Plaintiff now moves to compel Defendant’s response to their Form
Interrogatories, Special Interrogatories, and Request for the Production of
Documents (RFPD). Plaintiff has filed no opposition to these motions. 
 
Defendants also request $750 in sanctions be granted in
connection with each of the three motions. 
 
ANALYSIS: 
 
I.                   
LEGAL
STANDARD 
 
If a party
to whom interrogatories are directed fails to serve a timely response, the
propounding party may move for an order compelling response and for a monetary
sanction.  (C.C.P. § 2030.290(b).)  The statute contains no time
limit for a motion to compel where no responses have been served.  All
that need be shown in the moving papers is that a set of interrogatories was
properly served on the opposing party, that the time to respond has expired,
and that no response of any kind has been served.  (See Leach v.
Superior Court (1980) 111 Cal. App. 3d 902, 905-906.) 
 
Where
there has been no timely response to a demand to produce documents, the
demanding party may seek an order compelling a response.  (C.C.P. §
2031.300(b).)  Failure to timely respond waives all objections, including
privilege and work product.  (C.C.P. § 2031.300 (a).)  Thus, unless
the party to whom the demand was directed obtains relief from waiver, he or she
cannot raise objections to the documents demanded. There is no deadline for a
motion to compel responses.  Likewise, for failure to respond, the moving
party need not attempt to resolve the matter outside court before filing the
motion. 
 
II.                
MERITS 
 
Request to Compel Responses

 
On February
8, 2024, Plaintiff propounded their Form Interrogatories, Special
Interrogatories, and RFPD on Defendant via mail and e-mail. (Terhufen Decl.
¶ 2, Exh. A.)  On March 6, 2024,
Defendant apparently sent an email to Plaintiff’s counsel requesting an
extension on the discovery requests. (Terhufen Decl. Exh. B.) Plaintiff’s
counsel permitted an extension to March 23, 2024. (Id.) On April 8,
2024, having received no responses, Plaintiff’s counsel sent a meet and confer
letter to Defendant. (Id.) As of the filing of this motion, Plaintiff’s
counsel has received no discovery responses.  (Terhufen Decl. ¶ 4.) 
 
Based on
the foregoing, Plaintiff’s unopposed motions to compel initial response
to their Form Interrogatories, Special Interrogatories, and RFPD are GRANTED. 
 
Sanctions

 
The Court may
impose a monetary sanction ordering that one engaging in the misuse of the
discovery process, or any attorney advising that conduct, or both pay the
reasonable expenses, including attorney’s fees, incurred by anyone as a result
of that conduct. (C.C.P. § 2023.030(a).) Further,
it is customary to grant sanctions where a party has filed a motion to compel,
and the other party fails to file an opposition. (C.R.C. Rule 3.1348(a).)  
 
Here, Plaintiff
has drafted and filed three motions while Defendant has rendered no opposition.
Accordingly, the Court awards sanctions in the amount of $930 against Defendant.
This amount reflects 3 hours of attorney work at a rate of $250 per hour, as
well as the $60 filing fee for each motion. (Terhufen Decl. ¶ 6.) Given
the Court’s experience with motions of this type, and in light of the fact the
motions were unopposed, this sanction amount appears appropriate to compensate Plaintiff’s
efforts in compelling responses. 
--- 
 
RULING:
 
In the
event the parties submit on this tentative ruling, or a party requests a signed
order or the court in its discretion elects to sign a formal order, the
following form will be either electronically signed or signed in hard copy and
entered into the court’s records. 
 
ORDER 
 
Interinsurance Exchange
of the Automobile Club as subrogee of Robert and Ilene Dickman’s Motions to Compel Responses to Discovery came on regularly for hearing on August 16, 2024, with
appearances/submissions as noted in the minute order for said hearing, and the
court, being fully advised in the premises, did then and there rule as
follows: 
 
THE MOTIONS TO COMPEL RESPONSES TO PLAINTIFF’S
FORM INTERROGATORIES, SPECIAL INTERROGATORIES, AND REQUESTS FOR PRODUCTION ARE
GRANTED.  
 
FURTHER RESPONSES DUE WITHIN 30 DAYS.   
 
SANCTIONS ARE GRANTED IN THE AMOUNT OF $930 AS AGAINST
DEFENDANT.
 
SANCTIONS TO BE PAID WITHIN 30 DAYS. 
 
UNLESS ALL PARTIES WAIVE NOTICE, PLAINTIFF TO
GIVE NOTICE. 