 Case Number:  23BBCV02519    Hearing Date:   August 16, 2024    Dept:  A LOS
ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT
NORTH
CENTRAL DISTRICT - BURBANK
DEPARTMENT
A
 

TENTATIVE
RULING
AUGUST 13,
2024

MOTION FOR
PROTECTIVE ORDER

Los Angeles Superior Court
Case # 23BBCV02519

 



MP:  


Levon Anayan (Defendant)




RP:  


Empire Fire and Marine Insurance
  Company (Intervenor)



 
NOTICE:
 

The Court is not
requesting oral argument on this matter.  The Court is guided by
California Rules of Court, Rule 3.1308(a)(1) whereby notice of intent to appear
is requested.  Unless the Court directs argument in the Tentative Ruling,
no argument is requested and any party seeking argument should notify all other
parties and the court by 4:00 p.m. on the court day before the hearing of the
party’s intention to appear and argue.  The tentative ruling will become
the ruling of the court if no argument is received.   
 
Notice may be given
either by email at BurDeptA@LACourt.org or by telephone at (818) 260-8412.
 
ALLEGATIONS: 
 
This is
an action between Liana Ordaz (Ordaz) and Levon Anayan (Anayan) relating to an
automobile collision between the parties. Before the Court is a motion to
intervene by Empire Fire and Marine Insurance Company (Empire). On February 23,
2024, the Court granted Empire’s motion to intervene in this matter. Empire
contended that, as the insurer for Anayan’s vehicle, it has an interest in this
litigation. The basis for this claim is Empire’s belief that Ordaz and Anayan
staged the collision in order to defraud their insurance companies. 
 
Before
the Court is a Motion for Protective Order filed by Anayan. Anayan seeks to
exclude from evidence two recorded statements made to Empire in the course of
their investigation. Anayan’s sole argument is that these statements are the
subject of attorney-client privilege. Empire opposes the motion.
  
ANALYSIS: 
 
I.                   
LEGAL
STANDARD 
 
Before,
during, or after a deposition, any party, any deponent, or any other affected
natural person or organization may promptly move for a protective order.
(C.C.P. § 2025.420, (a).) The motion must be accompanied by a meet and confer
declaration under C.C.P. § 2016.040. (Id.) 
 
The
court, for good cause shown, may make any order that justice requires to
protect any party, deponent, or other natural person or organization from
unwarranted annoyance, embarrassment, or oppression, or undue burden and
expense.” (C.C.P. § 2025.420(b).) Moreover, there are “no time limits within
which an application for a protective order must be filed” (Stadish v.
Superior Court (1999) 71 Cal. App. 4th 1130, 1144.)
 
C.C.P. §
2025.420(b), provides a nonexclusive list of permissible directions that may be
included in a protective order. “[T]he burden is on the party seeking the
protective order to show good cause for whatever order is sought.” (Fairmont
Ins. Co. v. Superior Court (2000) 22 Cal.4th 245, 255.)
 
II.                
MERITS 
 
Anayan
asks the Court grant a protective order with respect to discovery requests
served on Empire by Plaintiff. Specifically, Anayan requests that two recorded
calls between himself and agents of Empire be excluded from discovery. The
first recorded statement is contained within a November 14, 2022 phone call
between an Empire claims adjuster and Anayan. (Bozoghlian Decl. ¶ 6.) The
second recorded statement was taken on February 10, 2023. (Bozoghlian Decl.
¶ 7.) During this second conversation Anayan, now represented by counsel,
answered various questions under penalty of perjury from an Empire
investigator. (Bozoghlian Decl. ¶ 7.)
 
The
discovery request was from plaintiff to the intervenor.  After defendant’s counsel objected to
disclosure of the telephone calls with intervenor.  (Miller Decl. ¶17).  Subsequently, plaintiff’s counsel called
defendant’s counsel and advised that plaintiff was not requesting the
production of the recorded calls in question. 
Mr. Miller, plaintiff’s counsel advised the intervenor was insisting on
producing these calls.  (Miller Decl.
¶19).  
 
At this
time, the Court finds it unnecessary to analyze whether the statements are
protected by an attorney-client privilege or whether there is an exception
thereto if one does exist.  Ultimately,
plaintiff was seeking discovery from intervenor, and plaintiff likewise has the
right to further define what is sought.  
Since plaintiff is not seeking the recorded calls in question, intervenor
has disclosed their existence and can comply with what is requested by
plaintiff without transgressing upon defendant’s claimed privilege.  Intervenor does not explain why turning over
information that is not requested is needed to comply with the discovery
request.  Intervenor may fully comply
without turning over the recorded calls in question.  Defendant also seeks an order that prevents
the disclosure of the existence of the calls, the Court does not find a basis
to issue such an order, only the content of the calls and the recordings should
not be provided.   The law permits the
disclosure of the existence of items, which is often done with a privilege
log.  That would then permit the Court to
make further rulings to the extent necessary whether the items are in fact
privledged.
 
The Court
believes the requested relief can be granted without opining on the validity of
defendant’s attorney-client privilege claim. 
Accordingly, the motion for protective order is GRANTED.   However, the request is granted for the
limited purpose of responding to the current discovery requests from plaintiff,
and not for any other purpose.  Whether
these statements may be admitted at trial or should be subsequently disclosed
for some other reason is not being addressed.  
The bottom line is that plaintiff is not requesting the recorded calls
and has so advised intervenor. 
Intervenor should not include information that is not being requested.
--- 
 
RULING:
 
In the
event the parties submit on this tentative ruling, or a party requests a signed
order or the court in its discretion elects to sign a formal order, the
following form will be either electronically signed or signed in hard copy and
entered into the court’s records. 
 
ORDER 
 
Levon
Anayan’s Motion for Protective Order came on regularly for hearing on August 9, 2024, with
appearances/submissions as noted in the minute order for said hearing, and the
court, being fully advised in the premises, did then and there rule as
follows: 
 
THE MOTION FOR PROTECTIVE ORDER IS GRANTED. 
 
DEFENDANT IS TO FILE AN ORDER CONSISTENT WITH
THIS COURT’S RULING.
 
UNLESS ALL PARTIES WAIVE NOTICE, DEFENDANT
ANAYAN TO GIVE NOTICE. 
 
 
DATE: 
August 13, 2024                            _______________________________ 
                                                                   
    F.M.
TAVELMAN, Judge 
Superior Court of California 
County of
Los Angeles 
 
LOS
ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT
NORTH
CENTRAL DISTRICT - BURBANK
DEPARTMENT
A
 

AUGUST 16, 2024

CONTINUANCE
LAW AND MOTION MATTERS

Los Angeles
Superior Court Case # 
21GDCV00283
23BBCV01317
23BBCV02519

 
Due to an unexpected urgent
matter that arose this week, additional time is necessary to hear this matter
and issue a Tentative Ruling.   On the
Court’s own motion, the matters are continued to AUGUST 20, 2024 at 10:00 a.m.,
or any date thereafter upon stipulation of counsel. 
ORDER 
 

The
law and motion matters set for August 16, 2024 for cases 21GDCV00283,
23BBCV01317 and 23BBCV02519 came on for hearing on August 16, 2024, with appearances/submissions
as noted in the minute order for said hearing, and the court, being fully
advised in the premises, did then and there rule as follows: 
 

 
THE LAW AND MOTION MATTERS FOR 21GDCV00283, 23BBCV01317 and 23BBCV02519 ARE CONTINUED
TO AUGUST 20, 2024, AT 10:00 AM, OR ANY DATE THEREAFTER UPON STIPULATION OF
COUNSEL.
 
PLAINTIFFS IN EACH MATTER ARE TO GIVE
NOTICE. 
 
IT IS SO
ORDERED. 
 