 Case Number:  BC718464    Hearing Date:   August 16, 2024    Dept:  A LOS
ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT
NORTH
CENTRAL DISTRICT - BURBANK
DEPARTMENT
A
 

TENTATIVE
RULING
AUGUST 14, 2024

MOTION
FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT 

Los Angeles Superior Court
Case # BC718464

 
MP:     The
City of Los Angeles (Defendant)                        
RP:     Pink Selkin, Lodie Pollard, Luna
Skyy Pollard, Donna Hill, Jayden Devaughn Carter Jayden Devaughn Carter
(Plaintiffs) 
 
NOTICE:
 

The Court
is not requesting oral argument on this matter.  The Court is guided by
California Rules of Court, Rule 3.1308(a)(1) whereby notice of intent to appear
is requested.  Unless the Court directs argument in the Tentative Ruling,
no argument is requested and any party seeking argument should notify all other
parties and the court by 4:00 p.m. on the court day before the hearing of the
party’s intention to appear and argue.  The tentative ruling will become
the ruling of the court if no argument is received.   
 
Notice
may be given either by email at BurDeptA@LACourt.org or by telephone at (818)
260-8412.
 
ALLEGATIONS: 
 
Pink Selkin (Selkin) and Lodie Pollard, Luna
Skyy Pollard, Donna Hill, and Jayden Devaughn Carter (collectively Pollard
Plaintiffs) bring this action against the City of Los Angeles (the City).
Selkin and Pollard Plaintiffs (collectively Plaintiffs) allege that the City is
liable for damages sustained in connection with an April 14, 2018 fire at 3779
Cahuenga Blvd., Studio City, California. This fire claimed the lives of Michael Pollard and Devaughn Carter, of
whom Pollard Plaintiffs are the survivors. The fire also caused severe injury
to Plaintiff Selkin, who was trapped in the building. 
 
Pollard Plaintiffs state the
following causes of action against the City: (1) Liability Pursuant to
Government Code §§ 815, 815.2, 815.4, 815.6, 820, 822.2, 840.2, & 850.2 and
(2) Survivor Action.
 
Selkin states only a cause of
action for Liability Pursuant to Government Code §§ 815, 815.2, 815.4, 815.6,
820, 822.2, 840.2, & 850.2
 
Before the Court are two motions for Summary
Judgment, both brought by the City as to each First Amended Complaint (FAC) in
the matter. Plaintiffs oppose these motions, and the City replies. The Court
notes that the arguments presented in opposition by Selkin and Pollard
Plaintiffs are virtually identical. As such, the Court will discuss the merits
of both oppositions in combination throughout its ruling. 
 
EVIDENTIARY OBJECTIONS: 
 
The City’s objections to the evidence of Pollard Plaintiffs are SUSTAINED
as to Nos. 1, 2-14 and OVERRULED as to Nos. 15-19. 
 
The City’s objections to the evidence of Selkin are SUSTAINED as to Nos.
1, 2-14 and OVERRULED as to Nos. 15-19. 
 
JUDICIAL NOTICE: 
 
All Plaintiffs request judicial notice be taken of the following: 
 
1.      California Fire Code § 701.2 
 
2.      Los Angeles Municipal Code §§ 91.8903.1.1,
91.8903.1.2, and 91.8903.1.3 
 
3.      Los Angeles Municipal Code §§ 91.8902.8,
91.8902.9, 91.8902.12, 91.8902.13, and 91.8902.14 
 
4.      Order After Hearing Re: Defendant City of
Oakland’s Demurrer to Second Amended Master Complaint, filed on May 2, 2018, in
the case titled Gregory, et al. v. Ng, et al., Alameda County Superior
Court No. RG 16843631 
 
5.      Case Summary and Appellate Docket (Register
of Actions) for the writ titled City of Oakland v. Superior Court, First
Appellate District No. A154686, trial court case no. RG16843631 
 
6.      Opposition to Defendant City of Los Angeles’s
Demurrer to Plaintiffs’ First Amended Complaint filed on April 3, 2023
 
7.      California
Fire Code § 1.11.2.1.1 
 
8.      California
Fire Code § 110 
 
9.      Answer
of the Defendant City of Los Angeles to Plaintiffs’ First Amended Complaint
filed on May 2, 2023
 
As to requests 1-3 and 7-8 the Court finds these are historical statutes,
that is they are the version of the statutes in place at the time the incident
in this case occurred. As such, they are subject to judicial notice pursuant to
Evidence Code § 452. Requests 1-3 and 7-8 are GRANTED. 
 
As to Requests 4-5, Plaintiff provide no basis for judicial notice of
these cases outside of their reliance upon these orders in their opposition
memorandum. Given these cases are not published decision they are not the basis
for judicial precedent the Court DENIES Requests 4-5. 
 
As to Requests 6 and 9, these are documents which already exist in the
Court’s record of this case. As such, judicial notice of the documents within
the Court’s files is GRANTED.  
 
ANALYSIS: 
 
I.                   
LEGAL
STANDARD
 
The
function of a motion for summary judgment or adjudication is to allow a
determination as to whether an opposing party cannot show evidentiary support
for a pleading or claim and to enable an order of summary dismissal without the
need for trial. (Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co.¿(2001) 25 Cal.4th
826, 843.) C.C.P.¿§ 437c(c) “requires the trial judge to grant summary judgment
if all the evidence submitted, and ‘all inferences reasonably deducible from
the evidence’ and uncontradicted by other inferences or evidence, show that
there is no triable issue as to¿any material fact and that the moving party is
entitled to judgment as a matter of law.”¿ (Adler v. Manor Healthcare Corp.
(1992) 7 Cal.App.4th 1110, 1119.)¿ “The function of the pleadings in a motion
for summary judgment is to delimit the scope of the issues; the function of the
affidavits or declarations is to disclose whether there is any triable issue of
fact within the issues delimited by the pleadings.”¿ (Juge¿v. County of
Sacramento¿(1993) 12 Cal.App.4th 59, 67, citing¿FPI Development, Inc. v.
Nakashima¿(1991) 231 Cal.App.3d 367, 381-382.)¿ 
¿ 
As to
each claim as framed by the complaint, the defendant moving for summary
judgment must satisfy the initial burden of proof by presenting facts to negate
an essential element, or to establish a defense. (C.C.P.¿§437c(p)(2);¿Scalf v.
D. B. Log Homes, Inc.¿(2005) 128 Cal.App.4th 1510, 1520.) Courts “liberally
construe the evidence in support of the party opposing summary judgment and
resolve doubts concerning the evidence in favor of that party.” (Dore v.
Arnold Worldwide, Inc.¿(2006) 39 Cal.4th 384, 389.)¿ 
¿ 
Once the
defendant has met that burden, the burden shifts to the plaintiff to show that
a triable issue of one or more material facts exists as to that cause of action
or a defense thereto. To establish a triable issue of material fact, the party
opposing the motion must produce substantial responsive evidence. (Sangster
v.¿Paetkau¿(1998) 68 Cal.App.4th 151, 166.)¿ 
 
II.                
MERITS 
 
Background
 
This case concerns a fire which
claimed the lives of Michael Pollard and Devaughn Carter. (Selkin FAC
¶ 1.)  On April 14, 2018, a fire broke out at 3779 Cahuenga Blvd.,
Studio City, California (the property). (Id.) Plaintiffs allege that the
property was being used for recording studios, residences, and live/workspace
with separate, unpermitted soundproof rooms available for lease to its tenants
and their visitors. (Id.) 
 
While the details are not clear,
it is alleged that the fire was started by the actions of Efrem Zimbalist
Demery (Demery). In other cases brought by Plaintiffs, it is alleged that
Demery purchased a lighter and gasoline from a nearby gas station and then used
these implements to set fire to the property. Demery is currently incarcerated
in Folsom State Prison, having pled guilty to two counts of murder and one
count of arson. 
 
The case before the Court
concerns Plaintiffs’ claims against the City for their alleged role in failing
to prevent the deaths of Pollard and Carter. It also concerns Selkin’s claims
against the City for injuries she sustained from being trapped in the building.
The City now moves for summary judgment as against all Plaintiffs. The City
argues that, as a public entity, they are immune from tort liability other than
where explicitly provided by statute. The City further argues that they
possessed no statutory duty to inspect the property to insure it was being
properly used or that it did not pose undue risk to occupants in the case of a
fire. 
 
Although the Pollard Plaintiffs
and Selkin are represented by different counsel, the briefs submitted in
opposition to the two motions for summary judgment are virtually identical. All
Plaintiffs contend that the City is liable under Gov. Code § 815.6 for failure
to discharge a mandatory duty established by a variety of statutes and city
ordinances. Plaintiffs allege that, for several years prior to the fire, the
City had actual knowledge of the unsafe conditions at the property by virtue of
several emergency responders visiting the property. (Selkin FAC ¶ 6, Pollard
FAC ¶ 29.) 
 
Facts Regarding City’s Notice 
 
Plaintiffs allege that emergency
officials for the City were called out to the property for a variety of reasons
in the years prior to the fire. These responses, and relevant facts associated,
are listed below: 
 
·        
On September 6, 2014, Police Officer Michael
Marciano (Ofcr. Marciano) received a radio call at the property regarding a
battery investigation. (Selkin Exh. 6.) Ofcr. Marciano testified at his
deposition that the property was very dark inside, requiring the use of his
flashlight to properly navigate. (Id. at p. 15.) Marciano testified that
he entered from the rear of the building as the front door was locked. (Id.)

 
·        
On April 18, 2015, Police Officer Eric Avendano
(Ofcr. Avendano) received a radio call at the property regarding a transient without
permission living in the building. (Selin Exh. 7.) 
 
·        
On April 19, 2015, Police Officers responded to an
assault call at the property. (Selkin Exh. 7.) The report listed the property
as a recording studio. (Id.)
 
·        
On April 20, 2015, Police Officers responded to
a burglary call at the property. (Selkin Exh. 11.) The report listed the
property as a recording studio. (Id.) The report also makes mention that
the burglary victim’s room had a doorknob lock and that the front door had an
electronic pass code system. (Id.) 
 
·        
On July 9, 2015, Police Officers responding to a
call regarding a transient setting up camp near the building. (Selkin Exh. 14.)
The report listed the property as a recording studio. (Id.)
 
·        
On March 29, 2016, Police Officer Kenneth Franco
responded to the property regarding a call that someone’s car was broken into.
(Selkin Exh. 15.)
 
·        
On January 13, 2017, Police Officer Brittney
Guiterrez responsed to a call about an assault. (Selkin Exh. 16.) The report
for this incident lists the building as a recording studio. (Id.) 
 
·        
On June 18, 2021, Police Officers responded to
and entered the property. (Selkin Exhs. 24, 25, 26.) Body camera footage from
this incident shows the conditions of the property and confirms it was being
used as a recording studio. (Id.) Plaintiff states this body camera
footage reveals multiple building violations including interior double doors,
inadequate lighting, inadequate exit signage, and inadequate fire
extinguishers. (Id.) 
 
Plaintiffs also allege that on
March 15, 2017, Los Angeles Fire Department Captain Duc Nguyen (Capt. Nguyen)
completed two online Customer Service Requests (CSR) regarding the property
with the Los Angeles Department of Building and Safety (LADBS). (Selkin Exh.
8.) Capt. Nguyen’s deposition testimony was that the Fire Department received
two CSR regarding an alleged marijuana grow operation at the property. (Id.
p. 22.) Nguyen further testified that he would generally report obvious
building code violations to the LADBS. (Id. p. 24.) 
 
Plaintiffs also include the
deposition testimony of LADBS staff member Oscar Salgado (Salgado). (Exh. 12.)
Salgado testified that he referred the above referenced marijuana CSR to the
Los Angeles Police Department (LAPD) because it concerned allegations of an unlawful
marijuana grow. (Id. p. 33.) Salgado testified that the LADBS is not
trained in matters concerning unlawful marijuana growing. (Id. p. 42.)
Salgado further testified that LADBS does not have a protocol to follow up when
they refer a CSR to another City department. (Id. p. 29.) Salgado
testified that LADBS generally has authority to issue an order to comply when
they have verified municipal code violations existed. (Id. p. 28.) 
 
Discussion 
 
Statutory Liability 
 
The City first argues that they
are entitled to summary judgment because Plaintiffs have not demonstrated any
statutory basis for liability. The City correctly points out that Gov. Code §
815 immunizes government entities from negligence claims absent explicit
statutory basis. The City argues that no statute cited by Plaintiffs
specifically creates liability for failure to make private property free of
fire hazards. 
 
In response, Plaintiffs concede the
statutes cited in their FAC do not directly create liability for the City.
Plaintiffs do maintain statutory liability pursuant to Gov. Code § 815.6 which
provides: 
 
Where a public
entity is under a mandatory duty imposed by an enactment that is designed to
protect against the risk of a particular kind of injury, the public entity is
liable for an injury of that kind proximately caused by its failure to
discharge the duty unless the public entity establishes that it exercised
reasonable diligence to discharge the duty.
 
The Court agrees that Gov. Code §
815.6 applies to Plaintiffs’ claims. Plaintiffs have pled a variety of statutes/ordinances
which purportedly create a mandatory duty. An enactment, ordinance, or statute
creates a mandatory duty only if it requires a public agency to take a
particular action. (See San Mateo Union High School Dist. v. County of San
Mateo (2013) 213 Cal.App.4th 418, 429; Guzman v. County of Monterey (2009)
46 Cal.4th 887, 894.) Whether a statute or ordinance imposes a mandatory duty
on a public entity is a question of statutory interpretation for the Court. (Id.
at 898.) On their face, these statutes/ordinances appear to create mandatory
duties such that Plaintiffs’ pleadings are proper. A list and brief summary of
the statutes/ordinances, as they appeared at the time of the incident, are
provided below: 
 
Cal. Health & Saf. Code §§ 
 
·        
13145
o  
Requiring the State Fire Marshal the chief of
any city or county fire department or district providing fire protection
services, and their authorized representatives, shall enforce in their
respective areas building standards relating to fire and panic safety adopted
by the State Fire Marshal and published in the State Building Standards Code.                  
·        
13146
o  
Establishing it is the responsibility of the
State Fire Marshal, chief of any city or county fire department or of any fire
protection district, and their authorized representatives to enforce building
standards. 
·        
17960
o  
The building department of every city or county
shall enforce within its jurisdiction all the provisions published in the State
Building Standards Code, the provisions of this part, and the other rules and
regulations promulgated pursuant to the provisions of this part pertaining to
the erection, construction, reconstruction, movement, enlargement, conversion,
alteration, repair, removal, demolition, or arrangement of apartment houses,
hotels, or dwellings.
·        
17961(a)
o  
The housing or building department … shall
enforce within its jurisdiction all of this part, the building standards
published in the State Building Standards Code, and the other rules and
regulations adopted pursuant to this part pertaining to the maintenance,
sanitation, ventilation, use, or occupancy of apartment houses, hotels, or
dwellings.
·        
17962
o  
The chief of any city or any county fire
department or district providing fire protection services, and their authorized
representatives, shall enforce in their respective areas all those provisions
of this part, the building standards published in the State Building Standards
Code relating to fire and panic safety, and those rules and regulations
promulgated pursuant to the provisions of this part pertaining to fire
prevention, fire protection, the control of the spread of fire, and safety from
fire or panic.
·        
17920.3
o  
Any building or portion thereof including any
dwelling unit, guestroom or suite of rooms, or the premises on which the same
is located, in which there exists any of the following listed conditions to an
extent that endangers the life, limb, health, property, safety, or welfare of
the public or the occupants thereof shall be deemed and hereby is declared to
be a substandard building… 
·        
17952
o  
In the event of nonenforcement of this part, or
the building standards published in the California Building Standards Code, or
the other rules and regulations promulgated pursuant to the provisions of this
part, such provisions, building standards or other rules and regulations shall
be enforced by the department in any city or county after the department has
given written notice to the governing body of that city or county or fire
protection district, as the case may be, of a violation of this part, those
building standards, or the other rules or regulations promulgated pursuant to
the provisions of this part and the city or county has failed to initiate
proceedings to secure correction of the violation within 30 days of the date of
that notice.
 
Cal. Fire Code §§ 
 
·        
110.1 
o  
If during the inspection of a premises, a
building or structure, or any building system, in whole or in part, constitutes
a clear and inimical threat to human life, safety or health, the fire code
official shall issue such notice or orders to remove or remedy the conditions
as shall be deemed necessary in accordance with this section, and shall refer
the building to the building department for any repairs, alterations,
remodeling, removing or demolition required.
·        
110.1.1
o  
Structures or existing equipment that are or
hereafter become unsafe or deficient because of inadequate means of egress or
which constitute a fire hazard, or are otherwise dangerous to human life or the
public welfare, or which involve illegal or improper occupancy or inadequate
maintenance, shall be deemed an unsafe condition. A vacant structure that is
not secured against unauthorized entry as required by Section 311 shall be
deemed unsafe.
·        
110.1.2 
o  
Where an apparent structural hazard is caused by
the faulty installation, operation or malfunction of any of the items or
devices governed by this code, the fire code official shall immediately notify
the building code official in accordance with Section 110.1.
·        
1.11.2.1.1. 
o  
The Court notes that this section contains
identical language to that in Cal. Health & Saf. Code § 13146.
 
LAMC § 91.8903.1.1. 
 
·        
Whenever the Department determines that any
building, structure, or premises is within the scope of this division, the
Department shall issue an order to the owner as shown in the last equalized
assessment roll. The order shall specify the conditions which cause the
building or premises to be within the scope of this division; whereupon the
owner or owner’s agent shall obtain the necessary permits and abate the
deficiencies in accordance with LAMC Subdivision 91.8903.1.2. The order shall
also require that the owner maintain the vacant buildings or structures vacant
until they are repaired or demolished.
 
Whether each of these
statutes/ordinances create a mandatory duty applicable to Plaintiffs’ cause of
action would require the statutory interpretation of each. The Court finds such
an analysis unnecessary in light of the City’s argument that it is immune from
any mandatory duty under Gov. Code § 818.6. 
 
 
Immunity under Gov. Code §
818.6
 
The City asserts that Gov. Code §
818.6 grants them absolute immunity from Plaintiffs’ claims. Gov. Code § 818.6
provides: 
 
A public entity is
not liable for injury caused by its failure to make an inspection, or by reason
of making an inadequate or negligent inspection, of any property, other than
its property (as defined in subdivision (c) of Section 830), for the purpose of
determining whether the property complies with or violates any enactment or
contains or constitutes a hazard to health or safety.
 
Case law makes clear that the
immunity provisions provided by statute generally prevail over any liabilities
established by statute. (Cochran v. Herzog Engraving Co. (1984) 155
Cal.App.3d 405, 409.) As will be discussed below, the Court finds the case law
interpreting immunity under Gov. Code § 818.6 negates any statutory liability
for a violation of mandatory duty. 
 
In Cochran v. Herzog Engraving
Co., the California Court of Appeal held that Gov. Code § 818.6 immunized
the City of San Mateo from liability caused by fire damage. Cochran
concerned an engraving company which frequently employed magnesium, a highly
combustible substance. (Cochran supra, 155 Cal.App.3d. at 408.) The
engraver had been inspected by the city fire inspector on two separate
occasions. (Id.) The Cochran court found that Gov. Code § 818.6
granted immunity from any negligent inspection of private property to determine
if the property constitutes a hazard to health or safety. (Id. at 411.)
The Cochran court rejected the argument that this section only immunized
the city from a failure to inspect, rather than its failure to follow up on its
findings regarding the magnesium. (Id.) The court held that the immunity
of Gov. Code § 818.6 is broad and intended to immunize entities from any
activity which stems from an inspection. (Id. at 412.) The court
concluded that the failure to rectify the dangerous magnesium storage after
inspection was immunized under Gov. Code § 818.6. (Id.) The court
further held that this immunity prevailed over any mandatory duty that arose
from Gov. Code § 815.6. (Id.) 
 
Perhaps most importantly for
purpose of this motion, the Cochran court held that “In order for the
immunity to apply, the negligence in question must have been part and parcel of
the inspection or have had a direct or proximate effect on it, either by
impairing its value, frustrating its goals or purposes, affecting the results
or findings made, or in some other way resulting in damage to the investigation
itself.” (Id. at 411.) 
 
Immunity stemming from or
relating to inspection was further explored in Harshbarger v. City of Colton.
Harshbarger concerned an instance where a pair of building inspectors
hired by the city of Colton intentionally disregarded their findings that a new
construction contained multiple code violations. (Harshbarger v. City of
Colton (1988) 197 Cal.App.3d 1335, 1338.) The plaintiffs in Harshbarger
brought an action against Colton for intentional misrepresentation and
suppression of fact. (Id.) The court ultimately held that inspection
immunity extended to claims for fraudulent inspection as well as negligent
inspection. (Id.) 
 
The plaintiffs in Harshbarger also
argued for statutory liability based on the mandatory duty imposed by Health
and Saf. Code § 17960. In discussing mandatory duty, the Harshbarger court
held: 
 
We agree that Health
and Safety Code section 17960 imposes a mandatory duty on Colton to enforce
code provisions and other rules and regulations pertaining to the construction
of dwellings. However, inspection of property for compliance with codes and
regulations is the means by which the public entity carries out its mandatory
duty of enforcing compliance with codes and other building standards; and
section 818.6 specifically provides immunity to public entities for failure to
make any, or adequate, inspection of property.
 
(Id. at 1346 [emphasis
added].) 
 
The principles of Cochran and
Harshbarger were further expanded in Haggis v. City of Los Angeles.
In Haggis, the California Supreme Court held that Gov. Code § 818.6
inspection immunity extended to a city’s mandatory duty to record a certificate
of substandard condition, following an inspection revealing the plaintiff’s
land was vulnerable to future landslides. (Haggis v. City of Los Angeles
(2000) 22 Cal.4th 490, 504.) The Court found that “Construing the immunity of
section 818.6 broadly to include the entire process of inspection and reporting
[citation], the Court of Appeal correctly held that section 818.6 immunizes the
City from liability for failing, after an inspection, to take the additional
step of recording with the county recorder the information so discovered.” (Id.
at 504.) The Haggis court thus concluded the city was immune under
section 818.6 from failing to take the additional step of recording a
certificate of substandard condition because the alleged negligent failure to
record the certificate of substandard condition was “‘directly connected to the
inspection process itself.’” (Id. at 504, quoting Cochran, supra,
155 Cal.App.3d at p. 412.)
 
In applying the holdings of the
above cases, the Court finds that any mandatory duty imposed by Plaintiffs’
various statutes/ordinances would be defeated by Gov. Code § 818.6 immunity. This
is because any duty arising from Plaintiffs’ statutes would necessarily
implicate the inspection process. As the Harshbarger court made clear,
the process of inspection is the means by which a government entity
discovers and rectifies substandard building conditions on private property. In
order for any of the requirements of the California Health and Safety Code to
trigger, logic dictates there must be an inspection of the premises. The same
can be said of the requirement of the California Fire Code and LAMC 91.8903.1.1.

 
The above principle is reinforced
by the fact that several of the statutes relied upon by Plaintiff specifically
contemplate an inspection. For example, Cal. Fire Code § 110.1 begins with the
caveat of, “If during the inspection of a premises…” The same is true of LAMC 91.8903.1.1
which begins “Whenever the Department determines that any building, structure,
or premises is within the scope of this division.” The determination by LADBS
that a building is within the purview of that code section could only occur
after an inspection.  
 
Further, Plaintiffs’ argument
that the City was on notice of the hazards outside of the inspection process is
unpersuasive. Plaintiff offers evidence of several city officials being
dispatched to the property, but none were for the purpose of inspecting the
building or enforcing building codes. Plaintiff presents no authority that city
police officers function as de facto inspectors for LADBS. While police
officers do not have any specialized training to identify building code
violations, their training are more traditional criminal statutes such as  the Penal Code, Vehicle Code and certain
sections of the Health and Safety Code applicable to illicit drugs; it does not
follow that noticing a building code violation triggers a mandatory duty under
the code sections cited. 
 
Even if the officer visits did
trigger a mandatory duty, the case law makes clear that this would not matter
in the face of Gov. Code § 818.6 immunity. Cochran established that
where inspections occurred and violations were negligently not rectified, Gov
Code § 818.6 still applied. If the City was on notice by virtue of the officer
visits or CSR, the fact remains that Gov. Code § 818.6 is intended to immunize
the City from any liability that resulted from their negligent failure to then
inspect the premises or take any action related to such an inspection. Further,
Plaintiffs’ contention that further discovery is needed to potentially uncover
a mandatory duty is also without merit. Setting aside the fact that Plaintiffs
have had ample time to conduct discovery, the fact remains that any mandatory
duty would necessarily be defeated by Gov. Code 818.6 immunity. 
 
Plaintiffs’ interpretation of the
law would result in the almost complete nullification of Gov. Code § 818.6
immunity. As the Haggis court observed, the purpose of this statute is
to broadly immunize “…the entire process of inspection and reporting” (Haggis
supra, 22 Cal.4th 490 at 504.) “In the present case, similarly, allowing
liability for failure to fully report, by recordation, the results of an
inspection, while immunizing the failure to conduct an inspection at all, would
have the effect, contrary to the evident legislative intent, of discouraging
municipal safety and health inspections. Even if plaintiff’s first cause of
action stated a valid claim for breach of a mandatory duty, therefore, section
818.6 would immunize the City from liability for that breach.” (Id. at
505.) As Haggis makes clear, the immunity under Gov. Code § 818.6 is
intended to apply broadly to effectuate the legislative intent of encouraging
municipal safety. 
 
Special Relationship 
 
The Court also finds that
Plaintiffs have not sufficiently demonstrated a special relationship between
themselves and the City such that they would have a duty to warn under Gov.
Code § 815.2. 
 
Under Gov. Code § 815.2(a), “[a]
public entity is liable for injury proximately caused by an act or omission of
an employee of the public entity within the scope of his employment if the act
or omission would, apart from this section, have given rise to a cause of
action against that employee or his personal representative.” (Cal. Gov’t Code
§ 815.2(a).) “As a general rule, one owes no duty to control the conduct of
another, nor to warn those endangered by such conduct.” (Davidson v. City of
Westminster (1982) 32 Cal. 3d 197, 203.) A duty may arise if “(a) a special
relation exists between the actor and the third person which imposes a duty
upon the actor to control the third person’s conduct, or (b) a special relation
exists between the actor and the other which gives the other a right to
protection.” (Id.)
 
In evaluating whether a public
entity has a special relationship, courts have noted that “[s]pecial
relationships have defined boundaries.” (Regents of Univ. of California v.
Superior Court (2018) 4 Cal. 5th 607, 621.) “They create a duty of care
owed to a limited community, not the public at large.” (Id.) For
example, “police officers are not in a special relationship with the citizens
in their jurisdiction . . . even when officers are aware of risks to a specific
potential victim[.]” (Id.) “Nor is a government entity in a special
relationship with all citizens who use its facilities.” (Id.) The court
noted that “[i]n declining to find a duty of care owed to courthouse visitors,
we observed that a ‘county,’ ‘as with all public entities,’ has the
responsibility to ‘exercise reasonable care to protect all of its citizens’...
but does not thereby become liable to each individual for all foreseeable harm.”
(Id.) 
 
Here, Plaintiffs have not
demonstrated any relationship between the City and themselves outside of the
City’s general duty to provide for the common wellbeing of its citizens. As the
Regents decision makes clear, the fact that the police officers had been
called to the property on numerous occasions does not create a special
relationship giving rise to a duty to warn of potential subpar building
conditions. 
 
Conclusion 
 
In short, the Court finds that
any mandatory duty imposed by statute/ordinance is preempted by the immunity
provisions of Gov. Code § 818.6. Any mandatory duty would necessarily arise
from the inspection process, which is entitled to immunity in cases of both
negligence and fraud. The case law on the matter makes clear that immunity
conferred under Gov. Code § 818.6 is to be broadly applied such that government
entities cannot be liable for a failure to inspect or thereafter abate
defective conditions of private property. As such, Plaintiffs’ statutory causes
of action must fail as a matter of law. 
 
Accordingly, the motions for
summary judgment are GRANTED. 
 
RULING:
 
In the event the parties submit on this tentative ruling,
or a party requests a signed order or the court in its discretion elects to
sign a formal order, the following form will be either electronically signed or
signed in hard copy and entered into the court’s records. 
 
ORDER
 
The City of Los Angeles’ Motions for Summary
Judgment came on regularly for hearing on August 14, 2024, with
appearances/submissions as noted in the minute order for said hearing.  The Court, being fully advised in the
premises, did then and there rule as follows:
 
THE
CITY OF LOS ANGELES’ MOTIONS FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT IS GRANTED.
 
UNLESS ALL PARTIES WAIVE NOTICE, THE CITY TO
GIVE NOTICE. 
 
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
DATE:  August
14, 2024                               
_______________________________
                                                                   
    F.M. TAVELMAN, Judge
                                                                        Superior
Court of California
County of Los Angeles
 