 Case Number:  22STCV21983    Hearing Date:   October 9, 2024    Dept:  54 


Superior
  Court of California
County
  of Los Angeles




 
Carolyn Parker,


 
 
 
Plaintiff,


 
Case No.:
 


 
22STCV21983




 
vs.


 


 
Tentative Ruling
 




 
Country Villa Terrace Nursing Center,
  et al.,


 
 
 
Defendants.


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing Date: October 9, 2024
Department 54, Judge Maurice A. Leiter
Motion to Enforce Subpoena for Business
Records
Moving Party: Defendants West Pico Terrace
Healthcare & Wellness Centre, LP, Pacific Healthcare Holdings, Inc.,
Rockport Administrative Services, LLC and Shlomo Rechnitz
Responding Party: None
 
T/R:     DEFENDANTS’
MOTION TO ENFORCE SUBPOENA IS GRANTED.
ADULT PROTECTIVE SERVICES TO COMPLY WITH THE SUBPOENA WITHIN 15 DAYS OF
NOTICE OF RULING.
DEFENDANTS TO NOTICE.  
 
If the parties wish to submit on the tentative, please
email the courtroom at SMCdept54@lacourt.org with
notice to opposing counsel (or self-represented party) before 8:00 am on the
day of the hearing. 
 
The Court considers the moving papers.
No opposition has been received. 
 
BACKGROUND
 
On March 30, 2023, decedent Carolyn
Parker, through her successor-in-interest to Darnley Scantlebury, filed the
operative first amended complaint against Defendants, asserting causes of
action for (1) elder abuse; (2) negligence; (3) violation of Health &
Safety Code § 1430(B); (4) willful misconduct; and (5) wrongful death. 
 
Plaintiffs allege decedent was a
resident at Defendants’ skilled nursing facility from May 14, 2022 to May 17,
2022, following a stroke. Plaintiffs allege Defendants were informed repeatedly
that decedent was at risk of falling from her bed, but Defendants refused to
provide bed railings or a bed alarm and switched her to an unsafe mattress.
Decedent fell out of bed in the middle of the night and was not helped for at
least an hour after the fall. Plaintiffs allege decedent became paralyzed because
of the fall. Thereafter, decedent was transferred to the hospital where she
suffered from infected pressure ulcers and various other complications,
resulting in her death on January 12, 2023.
 
ANALYSIS
 
CCP § 1987.1 provides, “[i]f a subpoena
requires the attendance of a witness or the production of books, documents,
electronically stored information, or other things before a court, or at the
trial of an issue therein, or at the taking of a deposition, the court, upon
motion reasonably made by any person described in subdivision (b), or upon the
court's own motion after giving counsel notice and an opportunity to be heard,
may make an order quashing the subpoena entirely, modifying it, or directing
compliance with it upon those terms or conditions as the court shall declare,
including protective orders.”
Defendants moves to enforce a subpoena served
on third-party Adult Protective Services on July 2, 2024. Defendants assert
that they learned in discovery that a report was made to Adult Protective Services
in 2021 alleging possible abuse by Plaintiff Darnley Scantlebury against his
mother, decedent Carolyn Parker. Defendants assert that this is relevant to
Scantlebury’s wrongful death damages relating to the closeness of the family
unit. This is information is relevant and discoverable. No opposition has been
filed to show otherwise. 
Defendants’ motion is GRANTED.


 