 Case Number:  23STCV21906    Hearing Date:   October 9, 2024    Dept:  54 


Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles




 
WFG National Title Company of California,


 
 
 
Plaintiff,


 
Case No.:
 


 
23STCV21906




 
vs.


 


 
Tentative Ruling
 




 
Ashli Milich, et al.,


 
 
 
Defendants.


 


 




 


 


 


 



 
Hearing Date: October 9, 2024
Department 54, Judge Maurice A. Leiter
Motion for Order Directing Service of
Summons on Freedom Financial Group, Inc. dba Freedom
Financial Group. by Delivery of
Process to Secretary of State
Moving Party: Plaintiff WFG National Title Company of California
Responding Party: None
 
T/R:      PLAINTIFF’S MOTION IS GRANTED.
 
PLAINTIFF TO NOTICE.
 
If the parties wish to submit on the tentative, please
email the courtroom at SMCdept54@lacourt.org with
notice to opposing counsel (or self-represented party) before 8:00 am on the
day of the hearing. 
 
The Court considers the moving papers. No opposition has been received.
 
Corporations Code § 1702(a)
provides: “If an agent for the purpose of service of process has resigned and
has not been replaced or if the agent designated cannot with reasonable
diligence be found at the address designated for personally delivering the
process, or if no agent has been designated, and it is shown by affidavit to
the satisfaction of the court that process against a domestic corporation
cannot be served with reasonable diligence upon the designated agent by hand in
the manner provided in Section 415.10, subdivision (a) of Section 415.20
or subdivision (a) of Section 415.30 of the Code of Civil Procedure or upon the
corporation in the manner provided in subdivision (a), (b) or (c) of Section
416.10 or subdivision (a) of Section 416.20 of the Code of Civil Procedure, the
court may make an order that the service be made upon the corporation by
delivering by hand to the Secretary of State, or to any person employed in the
Secretary of State’s office in the capacity of assistant or deputy, one copy of
the process for each defendant to be served, together with a copy of the order
authorizing such service. Service in this manner is deemed complete on the 10th
day after delivery of the process to the Secretary of State.”  
 
Plaintiff requests an order directing
service on the Secretary of State for Defendant Freedom
Financial Group, Inc. dba Freedom Financial Group. Plaintiff asserts that the addresses for Freedom
Financial listed by the Secretary of State and found via search no longer exist
or are no longer associated with Freedom Financial. The agent for service
listed for Freedom Financial passed away several years ago. This is sufficient
to establish reasonable diligence. 
 
Plaintiff’s motion is GRANTED.