  Case Number:  21STCV07601    Hearing Date:   October 9, 2024    Dept:  54 


Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles




 
KB Home Nevada, Inc., et al.,


 
 
 
Plaintiffs,


 
Case No.:
 


 
21STCV07601




 
vs.


 


 
Tentative Ruling
 




 
Steadfast Insurance Company, et al.,


 
 
 
Defendants.


 


 




 


 


 


 



 
Hearing Date: October 9, 2024
Department 54, Judge Maurice Leiter
Motion for Summary Adjudication
Moving Party: Plaintiffs KB Home Nevada Inc., KB Home Phoenix Inc., KB Home South Bay Inc., and
KB Home
Responding Party: Defendant Steadfast
Insurance Company
 
T/R:     PLAINTIFF’S MOTION FOR SUMMARY
ADJUDICATION IS DENIED.
 
PLAINTIFFS TO
NOTICE.
 
If the parties wish to submit on the
tentative, please email the courtroom at SMCdept54@lacourt.org with
notice to opposing counsel (or self-represented party) before 8:00 am on the
day of the hearing.
The Court considers the moving papers,
opposition, and reply.
 
BACKGROUND
 
On August 24, 2021, Plaintiffs KB Home Nevada Inc., KB Home Phoenix Inc., KB Home South Bay Inc., and
KB Home filed the operative first amended complaint against Defendants
Steadfast Insurance Company and John J. Diemer, asserting causes of action for
breach of contract, breach of the covenant of good faith and fair dealing and
negligent misrepresentation. The insured Plaintiffs allege the insurer
Defendant Steadfast refused to reimburse Plaintiffs for overpayments related to
claims on homes built by Plaintiffs covered by the policies provided by
Defendant.
 
EVIDENCE
OBJECTIONS
“In granting or denying a motion for summary
judgment or summary adjudication, the court need rule only on those objections
to evidence that it deems material to its disposition of the motion.” (CCP §
437c(q).) Plaintiff’s objections nos. 5, 7-12 are OVERRULED.
ANALYSIS
 
“A party may move for summary
adjudication as to one or more causes of action within an action, one or more
affirmative defenses, one or more claims for damages, or one or more issues of
duty, if the party contends that the cause of action has no merit, that there
is no affirmative defense to the cause of action, that there is no merit to an
affirmative defense as to any cause of action, that there is no merit to a
claim for damages, as specified in Section 3294 of the Civil Code, or that one
or more defendants either owed or did not owe a duty to the plaintiff or
plaintiffs. A motion for summary adjudication shall be granted only if it completely
disposes of a cause of action, an affirmative defense, a claim for damages, or
an issue of duty.” (CCP § 437c(f)(1).)
 
Plaintiffs move for summary
adjudication of Defendant’s statute of limitations affirmative defenses. 
 
The insurance coverage at issue in this
action was in effect from 2003-2006. Plaintiffs present evidence showing they
made claims for reimbursement on these policies in 2018 and 2019. Plaintiffs
assert that Defendant did not issue a denial of these claims before Plaintiffs
filed suit in 2021. Plaintiffs argue that the statute of limitations for wrongful
denial of insurance coverage does not accrue until the insurer denies coverage,
breaching the insurance agreement.
 
The statute of
limitations begins to run when a party knows or should know the facts essential
to a claim. (Love v. Fire Ins. Exchange (1990) 221 Cal.App.3d 1136, 1143).
In opposition, Defendant presents
evidence showing that Plaintiffs already had tendered claims, and the parties settled
the claims relating to the subject insurance policies, in 2008-2014. This is
sufficient to create a triable issue of fact as to the statute of limitations
affirmative defenses. Plaintiffs have not shown as a matter of law that they
may revive an expired claim under the “unconditional denial” standard in Vu v. Prudential
Property & Cas. Co. (2001) 26 Cal.4th 1142, 1149 and its progeny.
 
Plaintiffs’ motion for summary
adjudication is DENIED.
 
 
 
 
 