  Case Number:  20TRCV00847    Hearing Date:   September 12, 2024    Dept:  8 Tentative Ruling¿ 
¿¿ 
HEARING DATE:                 September 12, 2024
¿¿ 
CASE NUMBER:                   20TRCV00847
¿¿ 
CASE NAME:                         Drakk Holdings, LLC
v. PSIP SN Vermont LLC, et al. 
¿¿ 
MOVING PARTY:                 Defendant, PSIP SN Vermont,
LLC
¿¿ 
RESPONDING PARTY:        Plaintiff,
Drakk Holdings, LLC
¿¿ 
TRIAL DATE:                        January 27, 2025 
¿¿ 
MOTION:¿                              (1) Motion for Summary Judgment 
                                                (2) DRAKK’s objection
to PSIP’s Notice of Motion to Quash Deposition Ruling
¿ 
Tentative Rulings:                  (1)  GRANTED.  The Court has several questions for DRAKK’s
counsel noted below from its earlier tentative, but the evidence from the Zion
Bank deposition has not raised a triable issue of material fact.   The Court
is engaged in a jury trial, so oral argument will need to be focused and to the
point as the Court has already heard extensive oral argument on this MSJ.  
                                                (2) DRAKK’s objection OVERRULED.
The MTQ is mooted by the Zion Bank deposition having been taken
 
 
I. BACKGROUND¿¿  
 
A. Factual¿¿ 
¿ 
On November 17, 2020, Plaintiff DRAKK Holdings, LLC
(“DRAKK”) filed this action against Defendant, PSIP SN Vermont, LLC (“PSIP”).
On September 29, 2021, Plaintiff filed a Second Amended Complaint. On November
30, 2022, Plaintiff filed a Third Amended Complaint (“TAC”) alleging cases of
action for: (1) Specific Performance/Express Written Contract; (2) Specific
Performance/Promissory Estoppel; (3) Specific Performance/Breach of Implied
Covenant of Good Faith and Fair Dealing; (4) Promissory Estoppel and Money
Damages; (5) Fraud & Deceit; and (6) Negligent Misrepresentation.¿ 
 
This case involves a dispute between Plaintiff DRAKK
(buyer) and Defendant PSIP (seller), regarding a purchase and sale agreement
(“PSA”) for real property. Plaintiff claims in its complaint that Defendant
failed to complete the sale of its subdivided parcel under its PSA. On the
other hand, Defendant asserts DRAKK failed to complete the purchase of the
subdivided property because it did not have the funds in hand to pay the
purchase price on time, and that DRAKK’s claims to “financial ability” to borrow
or sell assets to get the funds at some future time is not legally sufficient
to prove DRAKK was “ready and able” to purchase on time. 
 
Defendant has filed a Motion for Summary
Adjudication as to all six of the causes of action asserting that Plaintiff’s
causes of action have no merit, that the necessary elements of each cannot be
established, and there is a complete defense to each. Further, Defendant contends
that because this Court can grant a Motion for Summary Adjudication to each of
the causes of action that Summary Judgment can be granted on the grounds that
the entire TAC has no merit, there are no triable issues of material fact, and
PSIP is entitled to judgment against Drakk as a matter of law. 
 
 
B. Procedural¿¿ 
¿ 
On August 15, 2023, Defendant
filed a Motion for Summary Adjudication and Summary Judgment. On March 13,
2024, Plaintiff filed an opposition. On March 22, 2024, Defendant filed a reply
brief. The motion hearing was continued to March 14, 2024. 
 
Further, on March 1, 2024, Defendant filed a Motion to Quash. On April
16, 2024, Plaintiff filed an opposition. On April 19, 2024, Defendant filed a
reply brief. The original hearing date of the Motion to Quash was on March 14,
2024. 
 
After posting a tentative ruling
to grant the defense MSJ with areas for oral argument outlined, and after
taking extensive oral argument at the March 14, 2024 hearing, this Court
continued the hearing on the motion for summary judgment and the Motion to
Quash Nonparty subpoenas to July 16, 2024. 
In so doing, the Court ordered the parties to submit the first set of supplemental
briefs, not to exceed five pages, on the narrow issues discussed by this Court
at the hearing on March 14. The briefs and/or deposition excerpts were ordered
to be submitted by July 3, 2024.  On July
3, 2024, both PSIP and DRAKK filed supplemental briefs. 
 
            This motion was again on calendar for July 16, 2024.  The Court did not take oral argument, but
instead addressed Plaintiff’s request for additional discovery under Section
437c(h), i.e., the Zion Bank deposition. 
The Court found that a continuance of the hearing was appropriate under
Section 437c(h) to take the Zion Bank deposition.  The Court also directed the parties to submit
a stipulation to continue the trial and the hearing on the Motion for Summary
Judgment pending the outcome of the Zion Bank deposition.  The Court’s tentative ruling for July 16, 2024
contemplated a second set of supplemental briefs and/or declarations, also not
to exceed 5 pages, for the already fully-briefed and once supplemented MSJ.  On August 5, 2024, the stipulation was filed
with the Court and the trial was continued to January 27, 2025, in recognition
of the fact that if the Court were to deny the MSJ the parties would need time
to complete trial preparation and that it would have been wasteful for the parties
to file motions in limine, prepare joint exhibits lists and a short statement
of the case meet and confer over joint jury instructions and a verdict form, and
other trial documents.  In no way did the
Court approve any more than 5 more pages of second supplemental filings on the MSJ,
plus any excepts from the Zion Bank deposition transcript itself.   
 
 
II. EVIDENTIARY OBJECTIONS 
 
PSIP Objection to DRAKK’s
Unauthorized Assertions in its Supplemental Brief RE Zion Bank Deposition and
Kenneally and Rebenold Declaration and Exhibits: 
 
Sustain: 1-5
Overrule: N/A. 
 
III. ANALYSIS¿ 
 
A.   
Motion
for Summary Judgment 
 
            Prior
to the July 16, 2024 hearing, this Court requested the parties discuss the
issues identified involving section 7.2.5 of the PSA in the first set of supplemental
briefs the Court had invited the parties to prepare and file for it prior to
the July hearing.  At the July 16, 2024
hearing, this Court continued the hearing and noted that it would be permitting
the parties to file yet another up to 5-page second supplemental brief and/or declaration
bearing on what if anything the Court should consider from the Zion Bank
testimony. The Court also posited the following questions for the re-scheduled
oral argument after the Zion Bank deposition: 
 
1.    
In
DRAKK’s supplemental opposition brief, it argued that Defendant failed to
provide any admissible evidence that the Property complied with the Conditions
of Approval regarding the Tentative Parcel Map. The Court expressed being
puzzled by this argument because the Final Map, not merely the Tentative, was
filed as having been entirely approved nearly a year after the September 26,
2019 tentative approval letter from the County Department of Regional Planning.
At the continued hearing, this Court noted that DRAKK’s counsel should be
prepared to explain: 
a.     
How
any of the 2019 conditions of approval are material in light of the filing of
the Final Parcel Map
b.    
Does
not the filing of the Final Parcel Map establish “local approval”?
c.     
Does
not the filing of the Final Map prove compliance with the Subdivision Map Act? 
d.    
Is
there any evidence before the Court that Mr. Kenneally raised any allegedly
unsatisfied specific condition of approval with DRAKK after Sean became
“alarmed” about PSIP’s Notice of the September 25, 2020 Tract Map recording? 
 
2.    
Next,
as to DRAKK’s argument that the closing date should be construed to be at least
15 days after the last of the filing of the Final Map, CC&Rs and Access
Agreement, the Court tentatively found that the argument does not raise any
triable issues of material fact. This Court noted that the undisputed evidence
before the Court is that the Final Parcel Map recorded on September 4, 2020, well
more than 15 days before the last extended deadline of October 30, 2020. The
Court questioned:
a.     
How
does that chronology raise a triable issue of fact as to the closing date? 
b.    
How
does the absence of the map itself in evidence raise a material issue of fact
if it is undisputed that it was recorded more than 15 days before the extended
closing date?
 
At the September 12, 2024 continued
hearing, DRAKK’s counsel should be ready to answer these questions in oral
argument. 
 
Zion Bank’s PMQ’s Deposition Testimony
 
            The
Court permitted a 5-page second supplemental brief and/or declaration to be
filed, and even clarified that the supplemental filing was to be 5-pages maximum.
This Court also noted that the second supplemental briefing was limited to what,
if anything, this Court should consider from the Zion Bank testimony. Although
DRAKK’s Zion Bank brief itself appears to be five (5) pages plus Counsels’
signature on a 6th page, DRAKK’s second supplemental submission of
materials for the already fully-briefed MSJ was over 300 pages including
declarations of Keith Kenneally and Chris Rabenold with exhibits.  The Court will not be reading or analyzing
the documents in the declarations, nor the declarations themselves. The Court
granted leave for 5 pages maximum, having already received and reviewed a
massive number of exhibits, declarations, pages, and briefs.  Supplemental briefs and declarations, like patience,
are not infinite.  The Court did not
authorize or approve any request for more than 5 pages, regardless of what the
PMK from Zion Bank could or could not attest to.  Limits are limits.  The Legislature limits the size of a brief on
an MSJ, and the Court previously allowed supplemental briefing on two occasions
to expand the page length.  But not beyond
the second supplemental submission of not more than 5 pages.    
 
            As
to the information bearing on the Zion’s PMQ Deposition, Plaintiff DRAKK
asserts that “Zions would have issued the requisite loan amount by October 30,
2020.” With this assertion, Plaintiff contends that the Zions deposition
discussed letters of interest and the Zions “Commitment” from 2021. Plaintiff
argues that the Zions “Commitment” is a letter from Zions whereby it discussed
or presented a conditional counter-offer that the witness initially referred to
as a letter of interest, not a binding, legally enforceable loan commitment, to
loan Plaintiff $6,339,147.   DRAKK asserts this letter raises an “inference
that Zions would have funded it in October 2020 with an acceptable phase II.”
(DRAKK Supp. Brief, p. 4.)   This
suggests that DRAKK did not seek much less obtain a loan commitment by October
30, 2020, which is problematic to the Court on this motion.  
 
            Exhibit
A, formerly DRAKK’s Exhibit JJ, is not entitled “commitment letter,” nor does
it act as one. Zion’s PMQ does not refer to it as a “commitment letter” either.
In fact, his deposition testimony notes that the letter “is essentially
information going to them telling them this is stuff we’re going to need to
work through to close. This is, I think, closer to a commitment letter.” (Zions’
Depo., 25:23-26:1.) He also noted that the letter “describes the requirements”
and “describes what [Zions would] need to close it. It describes what type of
covenants are going to go into it.” (Zions’ Depo., 26:25-27:3.) Further, when
asked about an “approval,” Zions’ PMQ’s testimony indicates that an approval is
not a releasing of funds. Instead, when asked about “approval” he noted that
“[w]ith an approval, there is a loan presentation, goes to an approval
authority, somebody who has authority to approve that amount of money for a
loan. The loan was clearly approved under the appropriate process that was
clearly documented in the system. And then once it’s approved, it’s presented
to the borrower, and the borrower then can proceed to they and close with the
loan officer or the borrower also can reject it and decide they don’t want to
do it.” (Zions’ Depo., 27:19-28:3.) 
 
            Without
quoting more from the deposition transcript, the Court notes two major points.
First, and most importantly, this letter facilitating a counteroffer that was
offered to DRAKK on May 26, 2021, almost 7 months after the closing date. There
is no proof that each condition precedent made by Zion was met for the funds to
even release.  The argued inference, that
if Zion was willing to make a conditional counteroffer of funds in May of 2021,
that means there is a triable issue of fact that Zion would have made a loan
commitment by October 30, 2020.   The Court disagrees, and finds that this requested
inference is speculative, not a reasonable inference that a trier of fact could
reasonably draw from the evidence.  
 
            Next,
DRAKK’s supplemental brief asserts that Zions’ loan would have issued on or
before October 30, 2020. However, this statement is NOT from Zion’s PMQ’s
deposition transcript. It is an argument, not a fact.  Plaintiff basis this argument on the
following factors: (1) First, Plaintiff argues a phase II test and report could
have been done in September 2020 in two or less weeks; (2) Plaintiff asserts
that, except for phase II testing, by September 2020, Rabenold/Harvest had
most, if not all the other information lenders require to underwrite and
approve this loan, including updated appraisals; (3) Plaintiff contends that Zions’
PMQ’s testimony further suggested that Zions would have issued its loan in
October 2020 based on the factors he testified about, such as the nature of the
business, the business’s finances, and the lending environment, all favored
issuing the loan to Plaintiff in October 2020; and (4) That there is a strong
inference that Zions would have funded it in October 2020 with an acceptable
phase II.   
 
All of these requested inferences are
contingent on other facts that are not proven. 
Zions did not issue a loan commitment. 
DRAKK did not have a Phase II report. 
A phase II inspection and test were not done before October 30,
2020.  DRAKK had no contractual right to obtain
a phase II environmental report after it allowed the inspection contingency to
expire.  DRAKK did not file suit before
the extended closing date of October 30, 2020 to enjoin PSIP from having the closing
date expire.  DRAKK did not sue before the
closing date to obtain declaratory relief that PSIP was acting in bad faith to
enforce its contractual right to bar environmental testing or inspections on the
site.  Just as it is speculative for the Court
to draw the inference that a hypothetical judge would have enjoined PSIP from
having the closing date expire, if a hypothetical suit were filed before
October 30, 2020, it is speculative for the Court or a reasonable juror to draw
the inference that DRAKK was ready, willing, and able to make the purchase by the
closing date if certain contingencies could hypothetically be proven.  There is no triable issue of material fact
that those contingencies or hypothetical matters were in fact satisfied by October
30, 2020.    
 
            As
the supplemental briefs were ordered to involve Zion Bank’s deposition, the
above concludes the analysis of the arguments made by DRAKK and PSIP in the first
five pages of the Court’s expressly permitted second supplemental briefing/declaration
which was limited by the Court to what it should consider from the Zion Bank
deposition.   The Court is not persuaded
to change its prior tentative ruling that PSIP has carried its initial burden
of entitlement to summary judgment, and that DRAKK has failed to carry its
shifted burden of demonstrating a triable issue of fact material to the MSJ.  
 
B.   
Motion
to Quash 
 
Next,
as noted above, this Court also heard – on May 14, 2024 – Defendant PSIP’s
Motion to Quash Deposition Subpoenas. The Court continued the motion to July
16, 2024, and Plaintiff has by now taken the Zions deposition, so the Motion to
Quash as to Zion Bank is m