 Case Number:  23TRCV04039    Hearing Date:   September 12, 2024    Dept:  8 Tentative Ruling¿¿ 
¿¿¿ 
HEARING DATE:                 September 12, 2024¿¿ 
¿¿ 
CASE NUMBER:                   23TRCV04039
¿¿ 
CASE NAME:                        Ayline A. Amirayan
v. Ford Motor Company, et al. ¿¿¿ 
¿¿ 
MOVING PARTY:                 Defendant, Ford Motor Company
¿¿ 
RESPONDING PARTY:        Plaintiffs,
Ayline A. Amirayan 
¿¿ 
TRIAL DATE:                        Not Set. 
¿¿¿ 
MOTION:¿                              (1) Motion to Compel
Plaintiff’s Further Responses to Special Interrogatories, Set One
                                                (2) Defendant’s
Request for Sanctions
                                                
Tentative Rulings:                  (1) GRANTED, verified further
responses without objections are due by October 11, 2024
(2) GRANTED in the amount of $560.
                                                 
I. BACKGROUND¿¿¿ 
¿¿¿ 
A. Factual¿¿¿ 
¿¿¿ 
On December 4, 2023, Plaintiff, Ayline A. Amirayan
(“Plaintiff”) filed a Complaint against Defendants, Ford Motor Company,
Autonation Ford Torrance, and DOES 1 through 10. On March 21, 2024, Plaintiff
filed a First Amended Complaint (“FAC”) alleging causes of action for: (1)
Violation of Civil Code § 1793.2(d); (2) Violation of Civil Code § 1793.2(b);
(3) Violation of Civil Code § 1793.2(a)(3); (4) Breach of the Implied Warranty
of Merchantability – Civil Code § 1791.1, 1794, and 1795.5; (5) Negligent Repair;
(6) Violation of the Magnuson-Moss Warranty Act; and (7) Fraudulent Inducement
– Concealment. 
 
On April 5, 2024, Ford notes that it served Plaintiff with
its Special Interrogatories, Set Two, to obtain additional information relevant
to the fraud allegations asserted in Plaintiff’s FAC in order to adequately
prepare for trial. Due to the volume of the FAC’s allegations and claims
asserted therein, Ford propounded thirty-nine (39) additional interrogatories
in its second set of Special Interrogatories which are directly tied to each of
Plaintiff’s substantive factual contentions asserted in the fraud cause of
action to the FAC. Specifically, Ford notes that the Special Interrogatories
request that Plaintiff state the facts that support the cited factual
contentions and allegations in her FAC and identify documents relating to
Plaintiff’s allegations. 
 
On May 7, 2024, Plaintiff served her responses to Ford’s
Special Interrogatories, Set Two and served verification for those responses on
May 8, 2024, but Ford argues none of her responses are code-compliant. Rather,
as to each and every Special Interrogatory, Ford argues that Plaintiff’s
responses are limited to a litany of baseless boilerplate objections in which
Plaintiff asserted that the interrogatories were vague, ambiguous, overbroad,
unduly burdensome, harassing, not full and complete, lack reasonable
particularity, compound, conjunctive, and/or disjunctive, irrelevant, seeks
information protected by the attorney-client privilege or work-product doctrine
and prematurely seeks expert witness information in contra version of
California Code of Civil Procedure section 2034.010, or otherwise provide vague
and non-responsive answers. As such, Defendant Ford has filed this Motion to
Compel Further Responses to Special Interrogatories, Set Two. 
 
B. Procedural¿¿¿ 
¿¿ 
On August 6, 2024, Ford filed its Motions
to Compel Further Responses to Special Interrogatories, Set Two. On August 29,
2024, Plaintiff filed an opposition brief. On September 5, 2024, Ford filed a
reply brief. 
 
¿II. ANALYSIS¿ 
¿ 
A.   
Legal
Standard 
 
Code of Civil Procedure
section 2030.300 provides that “[o]n receipt of a response to interrogatories,
the propounding party may move for an order compelling a further response if
the propounding party deems that . . .”[a]n answer to a particular
interrogatory is evasive or incomplete.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.300,
subd. (a).) Notice of the motions must be given within 45 days of service
of the verified response, otherwise, the propounding party waives any right to
compel a further response. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.300, subd. (c).) The
motions must also be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration. (Code Civ.
Proc., § 2030.300, subd. (b).) Finally, Cal. Rules of Court, Rule 3.1345 requires
that all motions or responses involving further discovery contain a separate
statement with the text of each request, the response, and a statement of
factual and legal reasons for compelling further responses. (Cal. Rules of
Court, Rule 3.1345, subd. (a)(3)). 
 
B.    Discussion 
 
                                    
i.         
Meet and
Confer Efforts 
 
            The Court notes
that Ford’s meet and confer efforts are disputed in this case. Plaintiff argues
that Ford failed to meet and confer in good faith and that the parties never
discussed the substance of the discovery dispute. Plaintiff confirms that on
June 17, 2024, Plaintiff’s counsel met and conferred with Defense Counsel, Zack
Amin, regarding various cases. Plaintiff notes that Defense counsel requested
supplemental responses for a few matters, and following the call, Defense
counsel requested supplemental responses for a few matters. However, Plaintiff
asserts that nowhere in the conversation did the parties agree to supplement
twenty-four (24) different cases in approximately twenty (20) days. 
 
            A review of the
June 17, 2024 letter indicates that the parties discussed a separate matter
involving mutual counsel (George, Jacob, et al. v. Ford Motor Company, et
al.), and that, “[a]s for the following matters, the deadline to provide
supplemental responses to Ford’s discovery requests is this week. Ford has
agreed to extend the time for you and your clients to provide supplemental
responses to Ford’s discovery requests. Therefore, you have until July 11,
2024, to provide supplemental responses in the following matters. Accordingly,
Ford’s motion to compel deadlines will be extended the same to August 1, 2024.”
(Declaration of Zakaria H. Amin (“Amin Decl.”), ¶ 5, Exhibit D.) 
 
            Instead of
showing that Plaintiff’s counsel responded to this letter indicating that they
did not agree to this, Plaintiff now asserts that they never agreed to the
contents and extensions in the letter, despite including the letter in
Plaintiff’s counsel’s declaration as well, and despite maintaining that the
date for Defense counsel to file a Motion to Compel Further was still June 25,
2024. Plaintiff’s opposition brief asserts, without any proof, that counsel
would have never agreed to this amount of production, that the parties never
discussed the particulars of the cases, including the case at bar, and that on
June 17, 2024, Plaintiff’s counsel had no such knowledge, as Defendant only
served the letter exactly a week after the ‘meet-and-confer’ call. 
 
            The Court requests
oral argument from Plaintiff’s counsel as to the following questions: (1) If
the June 17, 2024 letter was memorialized by Defense counsel as a confirmation
and summarization of the parties’ counsels’ mutual agreement, why would
Plaintiff’s counsel not respond, and include in the declaration that response,
that such an agreement was not reached over the phone earlier that day between
the parties? (2)  If Plaintiff’s counsel
did not telephonically agree to the extension to provide supplemental responses
as well as Ford’s deadline to file its motion to compel further, why would
Plaintiff’s counsel fail to respond detailing that such was never agreed to? Instead,
the Court notes that the meet and confer evidence provided by Plaintiff is the
exact same as that provided by Defendant Ford, detailing efforts on the part of
Ford to meet and confer. Plaintiff has not filed any evidence such as a reply
from Plaintiff’s counsel disputing any of the communications or agreements
allegedly reached telephonically between the parties.   Depending on Plaintiff’s responses, the Court is inclined to find
that Ford sufficiently met and conferred in good faith prior to the filing of
this motion to compel further.   
 
NOTE:   Given the volume of cases pending between the
counsel’s respective offices, some consolidation and coordination of discovery
efforts will obviously need to be required. 
Further, some level of cooperation will be required on a going-forward
basis, and a recognition of the fact that because of the sheer number of cases
pending between the parties, they should consider sample or universal extension
agreements when there are limited deponents or verifiers of discovery responses
available, or where the handling attorney is on vacation or in trial.   For example,
the responding party might be automatically granted a standard 21-day additional
period of time to object and otherwise respond, in order to avoid the receipt
of a multitude of objections-only responses. 
As a practical matter, the responding party must assert objections only
if a requested extension to respond is not granted, which results in more discovery
motions, more hearings, more consumption of non-productive time, and greater
animosity between counsel.  There IS a
better way, which the Court encourages the parties to consider going
forward.  Further, if a party seeks to
rely on a “document dump” as the way it intends to answer interrogatories, the Court
discusses below what CCP section 2030.230 requires to answer interrogatories by
reference to produced documents.  
 
                                  
ii.         
Special Interrogatories
 
            Ford seeks this
Court to order further responses to Special Interrogatories Nos. 24-54,
and 47-62. For example, Ford notes that Special Interrogatories Nos. 24 through
62 are specifically tailored to each of the substantive factual allegations in
the complaint. The Court will discuss each below. Specifically, Ford cites to Special
Interrogatories Nos. 24, 26, 30, and 34, which ask Plaintiff to list the
material facts at issue in the case and which speak directly to Plaintiff’s
cause of action for fraudulent inducement – concealment. 
 
            More specifically, as with Special
Interrogatories Nos. 45 and 51, Ford argues that Plaintiff failed to
provide a single response and instead served boilerplate objections. Special
Interrogatory No. 45 asks Plaintiff to: “[d]escribe in detail what made YOU
decide to lease or purchase the VEHICLE.” Further, Special Interrogatory No. 51
asks Plaintiff to: “[d]escribe in detail how would YOU have acted differently
had YOU known the material facts YOU allege Ford concealed from YOU.” In
response to each of these interrogatories, Plaintiff responded: 
 
Plaintiff objects
that this interrogatory is compound, conjunctive, and/or disjunctive and not
full and complete in and of itself. Plaintiff objects further that the
interrogatory is vague, ambiguous, overbroad, and lacks reasonable
particularity. Plaintiff objects that “YOUR” is uncertain, ambiguous, and
confusing, and Plaintiff responds on their own behalf. Plaintiff objects that
this interrogatory seeks information neither relevant to the subject matter of
this action nor reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible
evidence. Plaintiff objects to the extent the interrogatory imposes on
Plaintiff any requirement or discovery obligation greater than or different
from those under the Code of Civil Procedure and other applicable law. Plaintiff
objects that this interrogatory is unduly burdensome and harassing to the
extent it seeks information in the custody or control of, or equally available
to, Defendants. Plaintiff objects to the extent this interrogatory seeks
information protected by the attorney-client privilege or work product doctrine
and seeks the premature disclosure of expert witness information in
contravention of Code Civ. Proc. § 2034.010 et seq. Plaintiff objects that the
interrogatory calls for a legal conclusion.
 
            The Court OVERRULES the compound,
conjunctive, and/or disjunctive objection as each interrogatory only asks
Plaintiff to answer one question per request. The Court also OVERRULES
Plaintiff’s uncertain, ambiguous, and confusing objection. Although the Court
can understand that the phrasing of the interrogatories may be overbroad, the
Court does not find it so overbroad as to not provide an answer to these
questions. As such, the Court GRANTS Ford’s motion on these grounds.  
 
            Next, as to Special Interrogatories
Nos. 24, 26, 28, 30, 32, 34, 36, 38, 41, 43, 47, 49, 53, 55, and 61, Ford notes
that they ask Plaintiff specific questions related to her fraud cause of
action. Instead of responding with the material facts Plaintiff bases her
allegation on, Plaintiff merely responds that the answers are within the
complaint. The Court does not find these “expedient” answers to the listed
interrogatories to be sufficient. Clearly the questions are relevant to
Plaintiff’s case as they specifically ask Plaintiff to provide the facts on
which she bases each allegation in the complaint. The complaint is filled with
just that – allegations. As such, it is an improper and evasive response to
point Ford to allegations when Ford is seeking facts now that the
parties have been able to engage in discovery.  A party seeking punitive damages limited only
by the financial condition of the defendant and under current SCOTUS precedent up
to 9 times the economic damages should expect discovery requests as to the factual
basis for a punitive damages cause of action. 

 
            As to Special Interrogatories Nos. 25,
27, 29, 31, 33, 35, 37, 39, 40, 42, 44, 46, 48, 50, 52, 54, 56, 58, 60, and 62,
Ford asked Plaintiff to identify the documents that support the facts
identified in the above discussed interrogatories seeking Plaintiff’s material
facts.  Instead of providing complete
responses listing the documents provide, even if already provided, with the
bates-stamped identifiers, Plaintiff merely refers Defendant generally to the
documents produced in connection with Plaintiff’s responses to Defendant’s
Requests for Production, Set One, to the extent applicable. 
 
            Plaintiff’s responses are not sufficient responses to any
of the interrogatories seeking the corresponding relevant documents. In the
multitude of documents produced in lemon law cases, Plaintiffs as well as
Defendants are required to provide direct responses to the discovery and to
specify the exact documents that speak to the interrogatory. As such, the Court
GRANTS Plaintiff’s motion as to these interrogatories as well.  CCP Section 2020.230 provides a detailed
process for answering an interrogatory by reference to produced documents.  It states as follows:  
“If the answer to an
interrogatory would necessitate the preparation or the making of a compilation
. . . or summary of or from the documents of the party to whom the
interrogatory is directed, and if the burden or expense of preparing or making
it would be substantially the same for the party propounding the interrogatory
as for the responding party, it is a sufficient answer to that interrogatory TO
REFER TO THIS SECTION AND TO SPECIFY THE WRITINGS FROM WHICH THE ANSWER MAY BE
DERIVED OR ASCERTAINED. This specification shall be in sufficient
detail to permit the propounding party to locate and to identify, as readily as
the responding party can, the documents from which the answer may be
ascertained.”  (capitalization and
emphasis added.)  
The Court’s interpretation
of Section 2030.230 is that for each interrogatory as to which a full and complete
answer is found and contained in produced documents, the responding party
shall, separately for each interrogatory, list the Bates numbers of the produced
documents from which the full and complete answer to the interrogatory may be
found.  Thus, different interrogatories will
reference different Bates numbers.  This avoids
the unsavory practice of a “document dump” where hundreds or thousands of pages
are provided without any effort to identify the subset of the produced documents
that are responsive to each different interrogatory.  
            Lastly, Ford notes that Special
Interrogatories Nos. 57 and 59 ask Plaintiff to list all damages “suffered as a
result of Ford’s failure to disclose material facts.” In Plaintiff’s response,
Ford notes that Plaintiff only makes a vague reference that Plaintiff is
“entitled to maximum amount of damages allowed by the law.”  This is an insufficient response. The thrust of
the interrogatory is to require plaintiff to specify the extra-contractual
damages claimed in addition to non-economic damages which are subject to the jury’s
determination based on the evidence and their common sense, without any formula
or any fixed standard in making that determination.  Ford’s motion is GRANTED and Plaintiff must
provide a more complete response, verify what elements of economic damages are
sought and in what amount beyond the refund of purchase price and the incidental
damages permitted under the Song-Beverly Act, plus any categories of
non-economic damages. 
 
C.    Sanctions
 
Pursuant
to Code of Civil Procedure section 2030.300, subdivision (d), “[t]he court
shall impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7 against any party, person, or
attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel a further
response to interrogatories, unless it finds that the one subject to the
sanction acted with substantial justification or that other circumstances make
the imposition of the sanction unjust.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.300, subd.
(d).) Here, Ford has requested the Court impose monetary sanctions against Plaintiff
in the amount of $560. However, Ford’s counsel does not indicate what criteria
were used in coming up with this amount. Instead, Ford’s counsel merely seeks
$500 in attorney work done on the motion and $60 for the filing fee. Although
the amount is reasonable, the Court notes that Defense counsel’s declaration
needs to break down how the amount was calculated. 
 
Sanctions
will be discussed further at the hearing during oral argument after the Court
has a bigger picture of the meet and confer efforts. Nonetheless, the Court’s
inclination is to find the amount requested by Defendant to be reasonable. 
 
III. CONCLUSION 
 
For
the foregoing reasons, Ford’ Motion to Compel Further Responses to Special
Interrogatories is GRANTED. Ford’s Request for Monetary Sanctions is tentatively granted
pending oral argument on the meet and confer issues. Plaintiff’s further
responses are due to Defendant Ford on or before October 11, 2024. 
 
Ford
is ordered to give notice.