 Case Number:  23TRCV02990    Hearing Date:   September 12, 2024    Dept:  8 Tentative Ruling¿¿ 
¿¿¿ 
HEARING DATE:                 September 12, 2024¿ 
¿¿¿ 
CASE NUMBER:                   23TRCV02990
¿¿¿ 
CASE NAME:                        Mohameduvesh Patel v. Stephanie Hernandez
Hijar, et al. 
¿¿¿ 
MOVING PARTY:                 Defendant,
Stephanie Hernandez Hijar and Irma Hijar Martinez
¿¿¿ 
RESPONDING PARTY:        Plaintiff, Mohameduvesh Patel (No Opposition) 
 
TRIAL DATE:                        Not Set.
¿¿¿ 
MOTION:¿                              (1) Defendants’ Motion to Compel Plaintiff’s Initial Response to Form Interrogatories, Set One 
                                                (2) Defendants’
Motion to Compel Plaintiff’s Initial Response to Special Interrogatories, Set
One a
                                                (3) Defendants’
Motion to Compel Plaintiff’s Initial Response to Requests for Production of
Documents, Set One 
 
Tentative Rulings:                  (1) GRANTED
                                                (2) GRANTED
                                                (3) GRANTED
 
 
I. BACKGROUND¿¿¿ 
¿¿¿ 
A. Factual¿¿¿ 
¿¿¿ 
            On September 11, 2024, Plaintiff,
Mohameduvesh Patel (“Plaintiff”) filed a complaint against Defendants,
Stephanie Hernandez Hijar, Irma Hijar Martinez, and DOES 1 through 50. The
complaint alleges causes of action for: (1) Motor Vehicle Negligence; and (2)
General Negligence. The complaint alleges that on September 12, 2021, Plaintiff
was lawfully operating his vehicle on Inglewood Avenue near West 111th St. when
Defendant operated her vehicle without causation and in an unsafe manner that
it collided with Plaintiff’s vehicle. 
 
            On October 27, 2023, Defendants,
Stephanie Hernandez Hijar and Irma Hijar Martinez (collectively, “Defendants”)
note that they electronically served Plaintiff with Form Interrogatories, Set
One, Special Interrogatories, Set One, and Requests for Production of
Documents, Set One. However, Defendants note that no responses were provided. 
 
            On December 25, 2023, Defendants claim
they received a notice of a change in handling attorney to represent Plaintiff.
On February 5, 2024, Defendants assert that Plaintiff’s counsel filed a motion
to be relieved as counsel, which was granted by this Court on March 7, 2024. 
 
            On March 8, 2024, the day after Plaintiffs’
counsel were granted leave to withdraw as counsel, Defendants assert that they
electronically served the discovery to Plaintiff directly. However, Defendants
note that no responses were provided and no communications have been made from
Plaintiff that they intended to obtain new counsel to provide responses. On
April 15, 2024, Defendant asserts that Defendant served Plaintiff with a meet
and confer letter requesting the missing responses, and gave Plaintiff until
May 1, 2024 to produce verified discovery responses. Nonetheless, Defendants
note that Plaintiff failed to provide any responses by this date and has not
made any indication that he intends to comply with Defendants’ discovery
request. Thus, Plaintiff has filed these Motions to Compel Plaintiff’s initial
responses to Form Interrogatories, Set One, Special Interrogatories, Set One,
and Requests for Production of Documents, Set One.
 
B. Procedural¿¿¿ 
 
 On July 26, 2024, Defendants filed these Motions to Compel
Plaintiff’s Responses to Form Interrogatories, Special
Interrogatories, and Request for Production of Documents, Set One. To date, no opposition has been filed.  
 
II. ANALYSIS¿¿ 
¿¿ 
A.    Legal Standard 
 
 A party must respond to interrogatories within 30 days
after service. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.260, subd. (a).) If a party to whom
interrogatories are directed does not provide timely responses, the requesting
party may move for an order compelling responses to the discovery. (Code Civ.
Proc., § 2030.290, subd. (b).) The party also waives the right to make any
objections, including one based on privilege or work-product protection. (Code
Civ. Proc., § 2030.290, subd. (a).) There is no time limit for a motion to
compel responses to interrogatories other than the cut-off on hearing discovery
motions 15 days before trial. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2024.020, subd. (a); Code
Civ. Proc., 2030.290.) No meet and confer efforts are required before filing a
motion to compel responses to the discovery. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.290; Sinaiko
Healthcare Consulting, Inc. v. Pacific Healthcare Consultants (2007) 148
Cal.App.4th 390, 411
 
            Further,
where there has been no timely response to a Code of Civil Procedure §
2031.010 demand, the demanding party must seek an order compelling a response.
(Code Civ. Proc. § 2031.300.) Failure to timely respond waives all objections,
including privilege and work product. Thus, unless the party to whom the demand
was directed obtains relief from waiver, he or she cannot raise objections to
the documents demanded. There is no deadline for a motion to compel responses.
Likewise, for failure to respond, the moving party need not attempt to resolve
the matter outside court before filing the motion. Where the motion seeks only
a response to the inspection demand, no showing of "good cause" is
required. 
 
 
B.   
Discussion 
 
Here, the Court notes that based on the
moving papers, and lack of opposition brief, that Plaintiff has entirely failed
to respond to the Moving Defendants’ propounded discovery. Accordingly, this
Court GRANTS Defendants’ Motion to Compel Plaintiff’s initial response to Form
Interrogatories, Set One, Motion to Compel Plaintiff’s initial response to
Special Interrogatories, Set One, and Motion to Compel Plaintiff’s initial
response to Requests for Production of Documents, Set One. Plaintiff is ordered
to provide code-compliant, verified responses to Defendants’ propounded
discovery, without objection, on or before October 11, 2024. 
 
III. CONCLUSION¿¿¿ 
¿¿¿¿ 
For the foregoing reasons, Defendants’ Motions to Compel Plaintiff’s
 Initial Responses are GRANTED and
Plaintiff is to provide code-compliant, verified responses, without objection
to the propounded discovery on or before October 11, 2024.  
 
Moving Defendants are ordered to give
notice. 
 
 
 
 
 