  Case Number:  24STCV00226    Hearing Date:   October 31, 2024    Dept:  B 


Superior
  Court of California
County
  of Los Angeles
Southwest
  District
Torrance
  Dept. B




 
TIFFANY
  ABRAHAM, et al., 


 
 
 
Plaintiffs,


 
Case No.:
 


 
24STCV00226




 
vs.


 


 
[Tentative]
  RULING
 




 
CITY
  OF LOS ANGELES, et al.,


 
 
 
Defendants.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing
Date:                          October 31,
2024
 
Moving Parties:                      Proposed intervenor Travelers
Property Casualty Company of America
Responding
Party:                  None
Motion for Leave to
File Complaint in Intervention
 
            The Court considered the moving papers
and plaintiffs’ notice of non-opposition.
RULING
            The motion is GRANTED.  Travelers Property Casualty Company of
America is ordered to file its complaint-in-intervention within five days.
BACKGROUND
            On July 6, 2023, plaintiffs Tiffany
Abraham, individually and as guardian ad litem for Cash Abraham and Cali
Abraham and as successor in interest of Cristopher James Abraham Martin, and
Cash Abraham and Cali Abraham, through their guardian ad litem and as
successors in interest, filed a complaint against City of Los Angeles, Los
Angeles World Airports, Champion Fire Systems, Inc., Communication Technology
Services, LLC, Communication Technology Services, Inc., Jacobs Engineering
Group, Inc., New Cingular Wireless PCS, LLC, AT&T Mobility Corporation,
T-Mobile West Tower LLC, T-Mobile West LLC, Spring PCS Assets, LLC, Verizon
Business Network Services, LLC, and Los Angeles SMSA Limited Partnership for
(1) dangerous condition of public property, (2) liability pursuant to Gov.
Code, (3) negligence, (4) negligence and vicarious liability (against City of
LA and LA World Airports), (5) strict products liability (against Champion Fire
Systems), (6) negligent products liability (against Champion), (7) breach of
warranty (against Champion).
            On November 15, 2023, pursuant to
stipulation and order, the venue was changed to Los Angeles Superior Court.
            On January 19, 2024, City of Los
Angeles filed a cross-complaint.
            On February 21, 2024, T-Mobile West
Tower LLC, T-Mobile West LLC, and Sprint PCS Assets, LLC filed a
cross-complaint.
            On February 21, 2024, New Cingular
Wireless PCS, LLC and AT&T Mobility Corporation filed a cross-complaint.
            On February 23, 2024, Communication
Technology Services, LLC filed a cross-complaint.
            On March 1, 2024, Los Angeles SMSA
Limited Partnership filed a cross-complaint.
            On March 7, 2024, Communication
Technology Services filed a FACC.
DISCUSSION
Travelers Property Casualty Company
of America requests leave to file a complaint-in-intervention pursuant to CCP §387
for subrogation of workers’ compensation benefits.
The complaint alleges that the
events giving rise to the action occurred on October 31, 2022, at approximately
6:58 a.m. at LAX, in or near Terminal 8, Room, 102.  Complaint, ¶22.  Decedent Martin was working in a utility room
at or near Room 102.  Id., ¶23.  While working on a ladder in utility room,
decedent began braising a pipe related to the new HVAC system being
installed.  Suddenly and without warning,
including without the requisite pre-activation alarms, without the requisite
delay, without the requisite lockouts and without other mandated safety
mechanisms, the fixed tank carbon dioxide fire suppressant released lethal
doses and qualities of carbon dioxide into the room.  Id., ¶24. 
Among other negligent acts, the carbon dioxide tanks, the fire panel,
the electrical panel, the carbon dioxide fire suppression system and the
utility rooms where the carbon dioxide fire suppression systems were located
failed to have and/or operate with the requisite safety precautions.  Id., ¶25. 
As a result of the subject incident, decedent sustained catastrophic
personal injuries and succumbed to his injuries eleven days later on November
11, 2022.  Id., ¶26.
CCP §387(d) states:  “(1) 
The court shall, upon timely application, permit a nonparty to intervene
in the action or proceeding if either of the following conditions is satisfied:
(A) 
A provision of law confers an unconditional right to intervene.
(B) 
The person seeking intervention claims an interest relating to the
property or transaction that is the subject of the action and that person is so
situated that the disposition of the action may impair or impede that person’s
ability to protect that interest, unless that person’s interest is adequately
represented by one or more of the existing parties.
(2) The court may, upon timely
application, permit a nonparty to intervene in the action or proceeding if the
person has an interest in the matter in litigation, or in the success of either
of the parties, or an interest against both.”
To establish a direct and immediate
interest in the litigation for purposes of permissive intervention, a non-party
seeking intervention must show that he or she stands to gain or lose by direct
operation of the judgment, even if no specific interest in the property or
transaction at issue exists.  Simpson Redwood Co. v. State of California
(1987) 196 Cal. App. 3d 1192, 1201. 
“Whether the intervener’s interest is sufficiently direct must be
decided on the facts of each case . . . . And section 387 should be liberally
construed in favor of intervention.”  Id. at 1200.  “In order that a party may be permitted to
intervene it is not necessary that his interest in the action be such that he
will inevitably be affected by the judgment. 
It is enough that there be a substantial probability that his interests
will also be so affected.  'The purposes
of intervention are to protect the interests of those who may be affected by
the judgment . . . .'"  Timberidge Enterprises, Inc. v. City of
Santa Rosa (1978) 86 Cal. App. 3d 873, 881-82 (citations and italics
omitted).  An insurance carrier with a
right of subrogation has a direct pecuniary interest in its insured’s action
against a responsible third party, and may be permitted to intervene.  Deutschmann v. Sears, Roebuck & Co.
(1982) 132 Cal. App. 3d 912, 915.
Travelers “may choose how to try to
recoup payments it has made.  It
may:   (1) intervene in an injured
worker’s action, (2) file an independent action, or (3) assert a lien in an
injured worker’s action.  This ensures
the employee does not get a double recovery, the third party does not have to
defend two lawsuits, and compensation insurance rates are minimized.”  Fremont Comp. Ins. Co. v. Sierra Pine,
Ltd. (2014) 121 Cal. App. 4th 389, 396 (citations omitted).  
Labor Code § 3852 provides that,
“[a]ny employer who pays, or becomes obligated to pay compensation . . . may
likewise make a claim or bring an action against the third person.  In the latter event the employer may recover
in the same suit, in addition to the total amount of compensation, damage for
which he or she was liable including all salary, wage, pension, or other
emolument paid to the employee or to his or her dependents.”   “If the employer is insured against
workmen’s compensation liability, the insurer has the same right of action as
the employer, or is subrogated to the employer’s right.  In enforcing its cause of action the insurer
may . . . join as party plaintiff in the suit previously filed by the employee.”  Burum v. State Compensation Ins. Fund
(1947) 30 Cal. 2d 575, 580-81. 
Labor Code § 3853 provides that,
“If the action is brought by either the employer or employee, the other may, at
any time before trial on the facts, join as party plaintiff or shall
consolidate his action, if brought independently.”
Travelers seeks recovery of the
workers’ compensation benefits paid to plaintiffs on behalf of Travelers’
insured, Brymax Construction Services, Inc. 
Travelers asserts that it is its position that defendants were wholly
responsible for the accident and are liable to plaintiffs for the injuries
sustained by decedent and for the workers’ compensation payments made by
Travelers.  To date, Travelers contends,
it has paid workers’ compensation benefits to plaintiffs in the amount of
$774,857.98.
The Court finds that Travelers has
a direct pecuniary interest in the success of plaintiffs and have an interest
in protecting its right to recover from defendants.  Further, “[u]nder the doctrine of
subrogation, when an insurer pays money to its insured for a loss caused by a
third party, the insurer succeeds to its insured’s rights against the third
party in the amount the insurer paid.”  Hodge
v. Kirkpatrick Dev., Inc. (2005) 130 Cal. App. 4th 540, 548
(citation omitted).  “Subrogation is the
insurer’s right to be put in the position of the insured, in order to recover
from third parties who are legally responsible to the insured for a loss paid
by the insurer.”  Id. (citation
omitted).  
The Court therefore finds that
Travelers has met its burden under CCP §387.
The motion is thus GRANTED.
 
ORDER
            The motion is GRANTED.  Travelers is ordered to file its
complaint-in-intervention within five days. 
Travelers is ordered to give notice
of the ruling.