 Case Number:  22STCV31547    Hearing Date:   January 2, 2025    Dept:  73 01/02/2023
Dept. 73
Hon. Rolf Treu, Judge presiding
 
SOLEDAD VALENCIA v. NORMANDIE/WILSHIRE RETIREMENT HOTEL, INC.,
et al. 
(22STCV31547)
 
Counsel for
Plaintiff/opposing party: Steven Peck (Peck Law Group, APC)
 
Counsel for Defendant
Barlow Respiratory Hospital/moving party: Jeffrey Grass (Davis, Grass,
Goldstein & Finlay)
 
MOTION FOR SUMARY JUDGMENT, OR IN THE
ALTERNATIVE, SUMMARY ADJUDICATION BY DEFENDANT BARLOW RESPIRATORY HOSPITAL (filed 10/11/24)
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 
The Motion for Summary Adjudication is GRANTED as
to the first and second causes of action against Defendant Barlow Respiratory
Hospital.
 
BACKGROUND
 
On September 27, 2023, Plaintiff Soledad Valencia
(“Plaintiff”) filed her Complaint against Defendants Normandie/Wilshire
Retirement Hotel, Inc. (“CHRC”) and Barlow Respiratory Hospital (“Barlow”). 
 
On July 19, 2023, Defendant Barlow filed a demurrer to the Complaint’s
first cause of action for elder abuse and a motion to strike portions of the
Complaint. On August 22, 2023, this court sustained Defendant Barlow’s demurrer
with leave to amend and the motion to strike was moot. 
 
On September 11, 2023, Plaintiff filed a First Amended
Complaint (“FAC”) alleging claims for (1)
Elder Abuse, (2) Negligence, and (3) Violation of Residents Rights against
Defendant CHRC only.
 
The
FAC alleges the following as it pertains to Barlow.  Plaintiff was an elderly patient admitted to
Barlow from July 21, 2023 until September 15, 2021. (FAC, ¶¶
15-23.) During her hospitalization at Barlow, Plaintiff’s care plan
required Barlow staff to monitor Plaintiff’s skin at least two times daily for
redness or breakdown, and to reposition Plaintiff at least every two hours to
prevent skin breakdown. (FAC, ¶ 17.) As a result of Barlow’s staff’s failure to adhere to Plaintiff’s care
plan as well as understaffing of the facility by Barlow’s managing agents, Plaintiff
developed pressure injuries to her sacrum. (FAC, ¶¶
21-22.)
 
On November 19, 2024, Plaintiff added Glendale
Adventist Medical Center dba Adventist Health Glendale as DOE 1.
 
On October 11, 2024, Defendant Barlow
filed a Motion for Summary Judgment, or in the alternative, Motion for Summary
Adjudication, arguing:
·       
Barlow
Respiratory Hospital contends that the care and treatment provided to Ms.
Valencia met the standard of care and no act or omission on its part caused
injury to Ms. Valencia. Moreover, Barlow Respiratory Hospital contends that
there is no triable issue of material fact that it did not abuse or neglect Ms.
Valencia. The undisputed evidence is that Barlow Respiratory Hospital met the
patient’s care needs and provided the patient with care and treatment as
required. 
·       
Ms.
Valencia was admitted to Barlow Respiratory Hospital on July 21, 2021, with a
deep tissue injury to her sacrococcygeal area (sacrum). The condition of the
injury remained stable during the patient’s admission and was a deep tissue
injury at the time of discharge from Barlow on September 15, 2021. Barlow cites
to medical records in support. 
·       
On
the issue of standard of care, the Motion is supported by the declaration of
Ryan Klein, M.D. It is the expert opinion of Dr. Klein that the care and
treatment provided by Barlow Respiratory Hospital to the plaintiff met the
standard of care. (Exhibit L, Klein Decl., p.5, lines 2-27.)
 
No opposition was filed.
 
ANALYSIS
 
A.      Legal
Standard 
 
Motions for summary adjudication are
procedurally identical to motions for summary judgment. (Serri v. Santa
Clara University (2014) 226 Cal.App.4th 830, 859.) “A party may move for summary
adjudication as to one or more causes of action within an action, one or more
affirmative defenses, one or more claims for damages, or one or more issues of
duty, if that party contends that the cause of action has no merit or that
there is no affirmative defense thereto, or that there is no merit to an
affirmative defense as to any cause of action, or both, or that there is no
merit to a claim for damages . . . or that one or more defendants either owed
or did not owe a duty to the plaintiff or plaintiffs. A motion for summary
adjudication shall be granted only if it completely disposes of a cause of
action, an affirmative defense, a claim for damages, or an issue of duty.”
(Code of Civ. Proc., §¿437c,¿subd. (f)(1).)¿
 
A plaintiff moving for summary judgment/summary
adjudication bears the initial burden of showing that “there is no defense to a
cause of action if that party has proved each element of the cause of action
entitling the party to judgment on the cause of action.”  (Code Civ.
Proc., § 437c, subd. (p)(1).) “Plaintiff's¿initial¿burden¿of proof in moving for
summary judgment, however, d[oes] not include disproving any
affirmative defenses asserted by defendants.”  (Oldcastle Precast, Inc. v.
Lumbermens Mutual Casualty Co.¿(2009) 170 Cal.App.4th 554, 564, citing Aguilar
v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 853 (“Aguilar”) [“summary judgment
law in this state no longer requires a¿plaintiff¿moving for summary judgment to
disprove any defense asserted by the defendant as well as prove each element of
his own cause of action.... All that the¿plaintiff¿need do is to ‘prove[ ] each element of the cause of action’ ”])  Once Plaintiff meets its
initial burden of proving each element of the cause of action, “the burden shifts
to the defendant “to show that a triable issue of one or more material facts
exists as to that cause of action¿or a defense thereto.” (Ibid.) 
 
A defendant
moving for summary judgment/summary adjudications must show “that one or more
elements of the cause of action . . . cannot be established, or that there is a
complete defense to the cause of action.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd.
(p)(2); see also, Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (o).) “The defendant
may, but need not, present evidence that conclusively negates an element of the
plaintiff's cause of action.  The defendant may also present evidence that
the plaintiff does not possess, and cannot reasonably obtain, needed
evidence—as through admissions by the plaintiff following extensive discovery
to the effect that he has discovered nothing.  But… the defendant must
indeed present evidence."  (Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001)
25 Cal.4th 826, 855 [italics in original].)   “In other words, all
that the defendant need do is to show that the plaintiff cannot establish at
least one element of the cause of action--for example, that the plaintiff
cannot prove element¿X.”  (Id., at 853.) The court in Aguilar
distilled summary judgment to “a single proposition:  If a party moving
for summary judgment in any action . . . would prevail at trial without
submission of any issue of material fact to a trier of fact for determination,
then he should prevail on summary judgment.  In such a case . . . the
‘court should grant’ the motion ‘and “avoid a . . . trial’ rendered ‘useless’
by nonsuit or directed verdict or similar device.  (Id. at
855.) 
 
As noted in Aguilar,
“the party moving for summary judgment bears an initial burden of production to
make a prima facie showing of the nonexistence of any triable issue of material
fact; if he carries his burden of production, he causes a shift, and the
opposing party is then subjected to a burden of production of his own to make a
prima facie showing of the existence of a triable issue of material
fact.”  (Aguilar, supra, 25 Cal.4th at 850.)  Thus, courts
usually follow a three-step analysis: “First, we identify the issues framed by
the pleadings . . . . [¶] Secondly, we determine whether the moving party’s
showing has established facts which negate the opponent’s claim and justify a
judgment in movant’s favor. . . . [¶] When a . . . motion prima facie justifies
a judgment, the third and final step is to determine whether the opposition
demonstrates the existence of a triable, material factual issue.”  (Ojavan
Investors, Inc. v. Cal. Coastal Comm. (1997) 54 Cal.App.4th 373, 385
[citation and footnote omitted].) 
  
Opposing
parties must present substantial evidence in order to avoid summary
judgment.  (Sangster v. Paetkau (1998) 68 Cal.App.4th 151,
163.)  “In some instances…, ‘evidence may be so lacking in probative value
that it fails to raise any triable issue.’”  (Whitmire v.
Ingersoll-Rand Co. (2010) 184 Cal.App.4th 1078, 1083-1084.)  “A
complete failure of proof concerning an essential element of the nonmoving
party's case necessarily renders all other facts immaterial.”  (Hunter
v. Pacific Mechanical Corp (1995) 37 Cal.App.4th 1282, 1286, disapproved on
other grounds by Aguilar, supra, at 865; accord Saelzler v. Advanced
Group 400 (2001) 25 Cal.4th 763, 780 [“‘If the plaintiff is unable to meet
her burden of proof regarding an essential element of her case, all other facts
are rendered immaterial.’”].) 
 
Courts
“construe the moving party's affidavits strictly, construe the opponent's
affidavits liberally, and resolve doubts about the¿propriety¿of granting the
motion in favor of the party opposing it.’” (Unilab Corp.v. Angeles-IPA
(2016) 244 Cal.App.4th 622, 636; internal citation omitted.) 
“The court focuses on issue finding; it does not resolve issues of fact. The
court seeks to find contradictions in the evidence, or inferences reasonably
deducible from the evidence, which raise a triable issue of material
fact.”  (Johnson v. United Cerebral Palsy, etc. (2009) 173
Cal.App.4th 740, 754; internal citation omitted.)   
"[S]ummary judgment cannot be granted when the facts are susceptible [of]
more than one reasonable inference...” (Rosas v. BASF Corp.¿(2015) 236
Cal.App.4th 1378, 1392.) 
 
B.      First Cause
of Action for Elder Abuse and Second Cause of Action for Negligence
 
Defendant Barlow moves for summary
adjudication of the first and second causes of action. 
 
To plead
elder abuse, the plaintiff must allege “facts establishing that the defendant:
(1) had responsibility for meeting the basic needs of the elder or dependent
adult, such as nutrition, hydration, hygiene or medical care [citations]; (2)
knew of conditions that made the elder or dependent adult unable to provide for
his or her own basic needs [citations]; and (3) denied or withheld goods or
services necessary to meet the elder or dependent adult’s basic needs, either
with knowledge that injury was substantially certain to befall the elder or
dependent adult (if the plaintiff alleges oppression, fraud or malice) or with
conscious disregard of the high probability of such injury (if the plaintiff
alleges recklessness) [citations].”  (Carter v. Prime Healthcare
Paradise Valley LLC (2011) 198 Cal.App.4th 396, 406-07.)  “The
plaintiff must also allege . . . that the neglect caused the elder or dependent
adult to suffer physical harm, pain or mental suffering.” (Id. at p.
407.) “[T]he facts constituting the neglect and establishing the causal link
between the neglect and the injury ‘must be pleaded with particularity,’ in
accordance with the pleading rules governing statutory claims.” (Ibid.
quoting Covenant Care, Inc. v. Superior Court (2004) 32 Cal.4th 771,
790).)   
 
“‘[N]eglect’ within the
meaning of Welfare and Institutions Code section 15610.57 covers an area of
misconduct distinct from ‘professional negligence.’” (Covenant Care,
Inc., supra, 32 Cal.4th at p. 783.) “As used in the Act, neglect
refers not to the substandard performance of medical services but, rather, to
the ‘failure of those responsible for attending to the basic needs and comforts
of elderly or dependent adults, regardless of their professional standing, to
carry out their custodial obligations.’” (Ibid.) Furthermore, in order to distinguish
Dependent Adult Abuse from Professional Negligence, there must be a showing of
recklessness, fraud, malice, or oppression. (Ibid.) “Oppression,
fraud, and malice involve intentional, willful, or conscious wrongdoing of a
despicable or injurious nature” whereas recklessness requires deliberate
disregard of a high degree of probability an injury will occur. (Carter,
supra, 198 Cal.App.4th at 405 [internal quotation marks
omitted].)   
 
In Carter,
the court provided examples of cases involving conduct sufficiently egregious
to warrant an award of enhanced remedies under the Elder Abuse Act. One such
example was the following:  
 
An
88–year–old woman with a broken ankle “was frequently left lying in her own
urine and feces for extended periods¿of time” and she developed¿pressure
ulcers¿on her ankles, feet and buttocks that exposed bone, “despite plaintiff's
persistent complaints to nursing staff, administration, and finally, to a
nursing home ombudsman.”  
 
(Carter,
supra, 198 Cal.App.4th at 405, citing Delaney v. Baker (1999) 20
Cal.4th 23, 27, 41.)  
 
Additionally, to recover against a corporate defendant for
elder abuse, a plaintiff must allege that an officer, director, or managing
agent of the corporation personally engaged in wrongful conduct, or else had
advance knowledge of the conduct, authorized it, or ratified it.  (Civ.
Code, § 3294, subd. Welf. & Inst. Code, § 15657, subd. (c).)   
 
Here, the FAC alleges the
following. Barlow is a hospital that provides general acute care. (FAC, ¶ 3.) At all relevant times,
Plaintiff was an elder over 65 years of age who had physical and developmental disabilities.
(FAC, ¶
11.) On July 21, 2021, Plaintiff was admitted to Barlow for long term acute
care. (FAC, ¶
15.) When she was admitted, Plaintiff had no pressure injuries or skin
breakdown. (FAC, ¶
16.) Plaintiff’s skin integrity care plan at Barlow indicated that Barlow staff
would monitor her skin at least two
times daily for redness or breakdown and report to a physician for further
treatment orders in the event of any skin breakdown issues. (FAC, ¶ 17.)
Plaintiff’s care plan also required Barlow staff to reposition her at least
every two hours to prevent skin breakdown. (Ibid.) However, Plaintiff
alleges that on numerous days, Barlow staff failed to inspect her skin every
shift and reposition her every two hours. (FAC, ¶ 20.) As a result, Plaintiff developed pressure
injuries to her sacrum which she continues to endure pain and suffering for.
(FAC, ¶ 21.) Plaintiff
further alleges that Barlow deliberately understaffed its nursing staff, which
also caused Barlow staff to fail to inspect her skin every shift and reposition
her as required by her care plan. (FAC, ¶ 22.) On September 15, 2021, Plaintiff left Barlow
and was admitted to CHRC for skilled nursing care. (FAC, ¶ 23.) According
to Plaintiff, Barlow’s neglect of the Plaintiff included its failure to provide
medical care, to protect her from health and safety hazards and failure to
provide sufficient staff. (FAC at ¶¶ 6, 15 – 30, 36 - 40). 
 
Barlow
argues it did not abuse or neglect Plaintiff. Barlow contends that its expert witness, Ryan Klein, M.D. ("Dr. Klein"),
establishes that
it complied with the applicable
standard of care in treating Plaintiff. Barlow asserts that when
Plaintiff was admitted, her condition
was assessed by the nurse, and orders were obtained for wound care management,
which appropriately included Optifoam for the sacrococcygeal deep tissue
injury, citric acid for the moisture associated damage of the perianal area,
pressure reduction mattress, along with turning and repositioning Plaintiff. (Exhibit
C – Barlow Records, p.001912 – 001913; Exhibit D – Barlow Records, p.001879 -
001880; Exhibit F – Barlow Records, p.000014 – 000015; Exhibit L – Klein Decl.,
p.3, lines 12-16.) Barlow also submits Plaintiff’s medical records showing that
the orders were carried out, with daily assessments and treatment of the
sacrococcygeal deep tissue injury and perianal MASD wound, and repositioning
every two hours. (Exhibit G – Barlow Records, p.002861 – 002880; Exhibit H –
Barlow Records, p.003356 – 003702; Exhibit L, Klein Decl., p.5, lines 12-18.) Further, Barlow asserts the
sacrococcygeal deep tissue injury and the perianal MASD remained stable
throughout the Plaintiff’s admission and Plaintiff was provided with adequate
hydration, nutrition, and medications, including antibiotics. Dr. Klein states
that the fact that Plaintiff’s sacrococcygeal deep tissue injury and perianal
MASD did not progress or become infected, and that she was able to be
transferred to a lower level of care, as opposed to being readmitted to an
acute care hospital, reflects that the patient’s condition did not deteriorate
and that her basic needs were met, and she was provided reasonable and
appropriate care. (Exhibit L, Klein Decl., p.5, lines 19-27.)
 
Based on the foregoing, the Court finds that Barlow has carried
its initial burden. Plaintiff must establish a triable issue of material fact
in order to avoid summary adjudication. 
 
Here, Plaintiff did not file an opposition. “A party who has not timely filed written opposition to a
motion…may not be afforded an opportunity to offer oral argument at the
hearing.” (Sexton v. Superior Court (1997) 58 Cal.App.4th 1403, 1410.)
“The failure to file opposition creates an inference that the motion or
demurrer is meritorious.”¿ (Id.)¿ “In such cases, the court may hear
argument limited to a request for a continuance of the hearing in order to
afford an opportunity for written opposition.” (Id.) “[T]he rule is
patently intended to prevent the introduction of legal theories without prior
notice to opposing counsel and the court.” (Id.) Thus, Plaintiff has
failed to carry her burden.
 
Accordingly,
the Motion for Summary Adjudication
is GRANTED as to the first and second causes of action against Defendant Barlow
Respiratory Hospital.
 
DISPOSITION
 

The Motion for Summary
Adjudication is GRANTED as to the first and second causes of action against
Defendant Barlow Respiratory Hospital.
 