 Case Number:  23STCV31024    Hearing Date:   January 2, 2025    Dept:  73 01/02/25
Dept. 73
Hon. Rolf Treu, Judge presiding
 
SUPERSTAR MONITORING LLC, et al. v. SHARP
GROUP LLC, et al. (23STCV31024)
 
Counsel for
Plaintiffs/opposing party:  Suzanne
Rand-Lewis (Gary Rand & Suzanne E. Rand-Lewis, Professional Law
Corporations) 
Counsel for
Defendants/moving party:  Corine Zygelman
(Murchison & Cumming LLP)
 
demurrer AND MOTION TO STRIKE PORTIONS OF
THE FIRST AMENDED complaint (filed 6/24/24)
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 
Defendants’
demurrer to Plaintiffs’ first and twelfth causes of action is OVERRULED. 
 
Defendants’ demurrer to Plaintiff’s second, third, fourth and sixth
causes of action is SUSTAINED with 20 days leave to amend. 
 
I. BACKGROUND
 
On December 19, 2023, Plaintiffs Superstar Monitoring LLC;
Annmarie Baranik (“Baranik”); Raymond Anthony Lerma; Samantha Brown; Adrian
Napolitano and Roman Moreno filed a Complaint against Defendants Sharp Group
LLC and Rozita Natanzi. 
 
On October 2, 2024, the Court sustained in part Defendants’
demurrer to Plaintiffs’ Complaint with leave to amend.
 
On October 17, 2024, Plaintiff filed a First Amended Complaint
(“FAC”) alleging the following causes of action
against the Defendants: (1) Breach of Express and Implied Contract; (2) Breach
of the Covenant of Good Faith and Fair Dealing; (3) Breach of Express and
Implied Warranty; (4) Breach of Quiet Enjoyment; (5) Trespass; (6) Nuisance; (7)
Fraud, Negligent Misrepresentation, Concealment; (8) Negligence – Premises
Liability; (9) Negligence - Negligent Supervision, Negligent Management; (10)
Violation of Business and Professions Code §17200; (11) Violation of the
Consumer Legal Remedies Act; and (12) Intentional Infliction of Emotional
Distress.
 
The FAC alleges the following. Plaintiffs were tenants/occupants
of the subject premises, at Defendants’ Oakridge Plaza with the street address
of 14336 Ventura Boulevard. Plaintiff Baranik was the lessee of the premises. Defendants
entered into a written lease with Plaintiff Baranik, which provided for her to
have the exclusive use of and to occupy 1,117 square feet of retail space,
parking and amenities located at the premises for the use of her business Superstar
Monitoring LLC, and her employees, occupants and clientele. Almost immediately
after moving in, Plaintiffs allege issues arose relating to the hot water,
thermostat, heat, unhoused
individuals in front of the building, smoke from other tenants, water intrusion
and the elevator. Plaintiffs also allege Defendants breached the lease
and their duties to Plaintiffs by failing to remediate water intrusion on the
premises which caused the premises to be unfit for use, unhealthy and unsafe.
 
On November 19, 2024, Defendants filed the instant demurrer, arguing:
·      
Plaintiffs’ first,
second, third, fourth, sixth and twelfth causes of action fail for uncertainty
and failure to
state a claim. 
·       Defendants demur to the first cause of
action (Breach of Express and Implied Contract), second cause of action (Breach
of the Covenant of Good Faith and Fair Dealing) and fourth cause of action
(Breach of Quiet Enjoyment) as to the “non lessee” Plaintiffs
o  
The
Non-Lessee Plaintiffs have no
standing to allege damages based on contractual claims where they were not parties
to the contract.
·       Plaintiffs’
third cause of action for "Breach of Express and Implied Warranty"
fails because it is not clear what warranty is actually being alleged.
o  
It is presumed for purposes of this demurrer that Plaintiffs are
seeking damages for warranty of habitability; however, there is no recognized
implied warranty of habitability in a commercial lease.
·      
Plaintiffs’ sixth cause of action for nuisance is duplicative. The
nuisance claim is a mere clone of the negligence cause of action.
·       Plaintiffs’ twelfth
cause of action for intentional infliction of emotional distress fails to state
facts. Allegations supporting a showing that Defendants acted intentionally or
outrageously have not been adequately pled. 
 
Plaintiffs filed an opposition, arguing that the FAC sufficiently
sets forth facts to constitute a cause of action.
 
Defendants filed a reply maintaining that Plaintiffs failed to
plead facts to constitute each of its causes of action.  
 
II. ANALYSIS
 
A.      Meet and
Confer Requirement 
 
“Before
filing a demurrer pursuant to this chapter, the demurring party shall meet and
confer in person or by telephone with the party who filed the pleading that is
subject to demurrer for the purpose of determining whether an agreement can be
reached that would resolve the objections to be raised in the demurrer.” (Code
Civ. Proc., § 430.41, subd. (a).)  
 
Here, counsel for Defendants submitted a declaration stating she
sent Plaintiffs’ counsel a letter outlining the alleged issues in the Complaint.
(Mantovani Decl., ¶¶ 4-6.) Defendants’ counsel received an email from Plaintiffs’
counsel stating they were unwilling to amend the Complaint. (Ibid.) While the
parties did not meet and confer in person or by telephone, the failure to meet
and confer is not grounds to overrule or sustain a demurrer. (Code Civ. Proc.,
§§ 430.41, subd. (a)(4); 435.5 subd. (a)(4).) Thus, the Court
proceeds on the merits.
 
B.      Legal
Standard for Demurrer
 
A demurrer
tests the sufficiency of whether the complaint states a cause of action. (Hahn
v. Mirda (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747.) When considering demurrers,
courts read the allegations liberally and in context—any defects must be
apparent on the face of the pleading or via proper judicial notice. (Donabedian
v. Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994.) “A demurrer tests the
pleading alone, and not the evidence or facts alleged.” (E-Fab, Inc. v.
Accountants, Inc. Servs. (2007) 153 Cal.App.4th 1308, 1315.) As such, the
court assumes the truth of the complaint’s properly pleaded or implied factual
allegations. (Id.) The only issue a demurrer is concerned with is
whether the complaint, as it stands, states a cause of action. (Hahn,
supra, 147 Cal.App.4th at p. 747.)
 
C.      First, Second
and Fourth Causes of Action against Non-Lessee Plaintiffs
 
Defendants
demur to the first cause of action (Breach of Express and Implied Contract),
second cause of action (Breach of the Covenant of Good Faith and Fair Dealing)
and fourth cause of action (Breach of Quiet Enjoyment) as to the “non lessee”
Plaintiffs.
 
The
FAC alleges that “[o]n or about December 21, 2020, Baranik (“Lessee”) and Sharp
(“Lessor”) entered into a written lease for the suitable use of the common
areas and retail space in Defendants’ Oakridge Plaza commencing February 1,
2021, and ending January 23, 2023.” (FAC, ¶ 3.)
 
While
the lease is not attached to the FAC, Defendants assert that the FAC states
that only Baranik was the lessee. Therefore, Defendants argue that the other
Non-Lessee Plaintiffs have no standing to allege damages based on contractual
claims where they were not parties to the contract. "Someone who is not a
party to [a] contract has no standing to enforce the contract.’ (Hatchwell
v. Blue Shield of California (1988) 198 Cal.App.3d 1027, 1034; Republic
Indem. Co. v. Schofield (1996) 47 Cal. App. 4th 220, 227.) Defendants
assert Non-Lessee Plaintiffs also have no standing as to implied contract
terms, including Breach of the Covenant of Good Faith and Fair Dealing and Breach
of Quiet Enjoyment. “The prerequisite for any action for
breach of the implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing is the existence
of a contractual relationship between the parties, since the covenant is an
implied term in the contract.” (Smith v. City and County of San Francisco
(1990) 225 Cal.App.3d 38, 49.) The implied covenant of quiet enjoyment runs
between the tenants and the landlord from whom they are renting the Property. (Andrews
v. Mobile Aire Ests. (2005) 125 Cal. App. 4th 578, 590.)
 
In
opposition, Plaintiffs first argue that Defendants are barred from raising this
argument as to the first and second causes of action because Defendants failed
to demur to these causes of action in their first Demurrer. 
 
As
to the first cause of action for Breach of Express and Implied Contract, the
Court agrees. Under CCP 430.41(b), a party demurring to a pleading that has been
amended after a demurrer to an earlier version of the pleading was sustained
shall not demur to any portion of the amended complaint, cross-complaint, or
answer on grounds that could have been raised by demurrer to
the earlier version of the complaint, cross-complaint, or answer. Thus, after
the first demurrer, a party cannot subsequently challenge a cause of action if the
previous demurrer was overruled, or an unchanged cause of action was initially
unchallenged. Here, the first cause of action is an unchanged
cause of action that was initially unchallenged. The original
Complaint’s first cause of action was for Breach of Express and Implied
Contract. Defendants’ first Demurrer filed on June 24, 2024, did not demur to
the first cause of action. Therefore, Defendants are precluded from challenging
this cause of action in the instant Demurrer.  
 
As
to the second cause of action for Breach of the Covenant of Good Faith and Fair
Dealing and fourth cause of action for Breach of Quiet Enjoyment, Defendants
are not precluded from challenging these causes of action. In Defendants’ first
Demurrer, Defendants had demurred to the original Complaint’s second cause of
action for “Breach of the Covenant of Good Faith and Fair Dealing/Breach of
Express and Implied Warranty of Quiet Enjoyment, Trespass, Nuisance.” The Court
had sustained the Demurrer to this cause of action based on uncertainty. Thus,
the FAC’s second cause of action and fourth cause of action were originally
challenged and sustained in Defendants’ first Demurrer. Therefore, Defendants
are not barred from demurring to the second and fourth causes of action. 
 
Plaintiffs
next argue that the Non Lessee Plaintiffs have standing as to the Breach
of the Covenant of Good Faith and Fair Dealing and Breach of Quiet Enjoyment because they were employees of the
business and intended beneficiaries of the lease. Plaintiffs contend the FAC
alleges that the lease conferred rights and benefits on all of the Plaintiffs:
“Defendants entered into a written lease with Plaintiff ANNMARIE BARANIK, which
provided for her to have the exclusive use of and to occupy 1,117 square feet
of retail space, parking and amenities located at Defendants’ Oakridge Plaza
with the street address of 14336 Ventura Boulevard (hereinafter the “PREMISES”)
for the suitable use of her business SUPERSTAR MONITORING LLC, formerly known
as Legal Angels, and her employees, occupants and clientele.” (FAC, ¶ 1.)
 
However, the Court does not find
Plaintiffs’ argument persuasive. As Defendants point out, Plaintiffs provide no
details about how the Non Lessee Plaintiffs were intended beneficiaries, nor is
it alleged that there was any manifestation in the lease that third parties
were intended to be benefitted. The contracting parties must clearly manifest
their intent to benefit the third party. (City & County of San Francisco
v. Western Air Lines, Inc. (1962) 204 Cal.App.2d 105, 120–121.) Plaintiffs
fail to cite to any authority establishing that the Non Lessee Plaintiffs have standing as to the Breach of the
Covenant of Good Faith and Fair Dealing and Breach of Quiet Enjoyment for being employees of the business. The
case that Plaintiffs cite in support, Andrews v.
Mobile Aire Estates (2005) 125 Cal.App.4th 578, is inapposite as it pertains to whether the defendant owed its
tenants a right to quiet enjoyment, and does not discuss whether third party
beneficiaries or employees are also owed this right.  
 
Since Defendants had not previously
demurred to the first cause of action, it is OVERRULED. The Court SUSTAINS the
second and fourth causes of action with leave to amend.
 
D.     Third Cause
of Action: Breach of Express and Implied Warranty 
 
Next,
Defendants demur to the third cause of action for Breach of Express and Implied
Warranty against all Plaintiffs.
 
To establish a breach of the implied warranty
of habitability, Plaintiffs must establish (1) “the existence of a material
defective condition affecting the premises’ habitability,” (2) “notice to the
landlord of the condition within a reasonable time after the tenant’s discovery
of the condition,” (3) “the landlord was given a reasonable time to correct the
deficiency, and” (4) “resulting damages.” 
(Erlach v. Sierra Asset Servicing, LLC (2014) 226 Cal.App.4th
1281, 1297.)
 
Defendants contend it is well
established that there is no recognized implied warranty of habitability in a
commercial lease. (See, e.g., Muro v. Superior Court (1986) 184
Cal.App.3d 1089, 1098; Fish Construction Co. v. Moselle Coach Works, Inc.
(1983) 148 Cal.App.3d 654, 658; Schulman v. Vera (1980) 108 Cal.App.3d
552, 560–561.)
 
Plaintiffs do
not dispute that this cause of action pertains to a
commercial lease. However, Plaintiffs argue they were a small business and
their tenancy was akin to a dwelling, in which they provided services like a
home visit to their customers. Plaintiffs argue “Superstar fka Legal Angels was
a monitoring business which provided Court ordered supervision services for
families and children with Court ordered visitation needs. The Premises
provided a home environment for the family visits to occur. The Premises were
more like a home than an office or other retail business.” (Oppos., p. 10.)
However, the FAC fails to contain any such allegations.
 
The Court SUSTAINS the third cause of
action with leave to amend.
 
E.      Sixth Cause
of Action: Nuisance
 
Defendants argue Plaintiffs’ sixth cause of
action for nuisance fails because it is duplicative of its negligence causes of
action. 
 
To
establish an action for private nuisance, (1) “the plaintiff must prove an
interference with his use and enjoyment of his property”; (2) “the invasion of
the plaintiff’s interest in the use and enjoyment of the land must be
substantial, that is, that it causes the plaintiff to suffer substantial actual
damage”; (3) “the interference with the protected interest must not only be
substantial, but it must also be unreasonable, i.e., it must be of such a
nature, duration, or amount as to constitute unreasonable interference with the
use and enjoyment of the land.”  (Mendez
v. Rancho Valencia Resort Partners, LLC (2016) 3 Cal.App.5th 248, 262-263,
cleaned up.)

 
The FAC
alleges:
 
“The
dangerous and defective conditions of the PREMISES alleged in the factual
allegations above constituted a nuisance. The conditions include, but were not
limited to, that Plaintiffs were exposed to unsafe, unfit premises with long
standing and ongoing safety, water, mold and smoke intrusion issues at the
PREMISES. Defendants refused reasonable access to water. Defendants did not
provide hot water. Defendants did not provide heat. The common areas were
unclean, unsafe and Plaintiffs had to report unhoused individuals living in
front of the business and blocking ingress and egress multiple times. Other
tenants used the area in front of the business to smoke, causing smoke to enter
the PREMISES and to cause the PREMISES to be unhealthy and unusable. Water
intruded from structural defects into the garage parking areas making it
unsafe. The elevator was not functional for months causing difficulty access
the premises and moving objects necessary for use in the premises. The common
areas were wet, slippery and unsafe. Water was permitted to intrude in and
remain in the premises causing it to be unsafe and unhealthy. The PREMISES was
unfit for use, unhealthy and unsafe, as there was a complete lack of upkeep and
maintenance, it was not watertight, its systems were old and run down, which
permitted the existence and infestation of the PREMISES with mold, mildew,
fungus, insects, in addition to the trespasses by people, smoke, slippery
common areas, lack of heat, parking and elevator issues, which were nuisances
as stated above.”
 
(FAC, ¶ 61.)
 
Here,
Plaintiffs’ nuisance claim appears to be a negligence claim. Plaintiffs’
nuisance cause of action is premised on the unsafe conditions of the Property.
Similarly, the nuisance cause of action is premised on the same defective
conditions of the Property that constituted a nuisance (FAC, ¶ 81.) Where
negligence and nuisance causes of action rely on the same facts about lack of
due care, the nuisance claim is a negligence claim. (El Escorial Owners'
Assn. v. DLC Plastering, Inc. (2007) 154 Cal. App. 4th 1337, 1349; Martinez v. Pacific Bell (1990) 225
Cal.App.3d 1557, 1565.) Further, Plaintiffs seek the same relief for both
causes of action. 
 
Thus, Plaintiffs
fail to distinguish their nuisance cause of action from their negligence causes
of action. Accordingly, the demurrer to the sixth cause of action is SUSTAINED with
leave to amend.
 
F.       Twelfth Cause
of Action: Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress
 
Defendants
argue Plaintiffs’ Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress cause of action
fails to state a cause of action. 
 
“The elements of a prima facie case for the
tort of intentional infliction of emotional distress are: (1) extreme and
outrageous conduct by the defendant with the intention of causing, or reckless
disregard of the probability of causing, emotional distress; (2) the
plaintiff’s suffering severe or extreme emotional distress; and (3) actual and
proximate causation of the emotional distress by the defendant’s outrageous
conduct. Conduct to be outrageous must be so extreme as to exceed all bounds of
that usually tolerated in a civilized community.”  (Wilson v. Hynek (2012) 207
Cal.App.4th 999, 1009, cleaned up.)
 
The “mere allegation that the plaintiffs
suffered severe emotional distress, without facts indicating the nature or
extent of any mental suffering incurred as a result of the defendant's alleged
outrageous conduct, fail[s] to state a cause of action for intentional
infliction of emotional distress.” (Pitman v. City of Oakland (1988) 197
Cal.App.3d 1037, 1047.) “The allegation that plaintiff suffered shame,
humiliation and embarrassment without further factual explanation does not meet
the requirement of specificity….” (Id.)
 
The
FAC alleges:
 
“[T]he dangerous and defective conditions of the PREMISES alleged
in the factual allegations above were outrageous and intolerable by civil
society including Defendants’ depriving Plaintiffs of the basic things
necessary for life such as water, heat and fresh air. Their outrageous
intolerable conduct included, but was not limited to, that Plaintiffs were
exposed to unsafe, unfit premises with long standing and ongoing safety, water,
mold and smoke intrusion issues, Defendants refused reasonable access to water,
Defendants did not provide hot water, Defendants did not provide heat. The
common areas were unclean, unsafe and Plaintiffs had to report unhoused
individuals living in front of the business and blocking ingress and egress
multiple times. Other tenants used the area in front of the business to smoke,
causing smoke to enter the PREMISES and to cause the PREMISES to be unhealthy
and unusable. Water intruded from structural defects into the garage parking
areas making it unsafe. The elevator was not functional for months causing
difficulty access the premises and moving objects necessary for use in the
premises. The common areas were wet, slippery and unsafe. Defendants permitted
the existence and infestation of the PREMISES with mold, mildew, fungus, insects,
in addition to the trespasses by people, smoke, slippery common areas, lack of
heat, parking and elevator issues.
 
Because of these conditions Plaintiffs were sick. Defendants knew
the conditions were causing Plaintiffs to be sick. They still let them become
worse.
 
Plaintiffs suffered extreme distress including fear, worry,
anxiety, which affect their daily lives and caused them anguish, pain,
suffering and illness.”
 
(FAC, ¶¶ 96-98.)
 
The Court
finds Plaintiffs allegations sufficient at this time. Here, Plaintiffs have
alleged the nature of their mental suffering incurred
as a result of Defendants’ alleged outrageous conduct. (FAC, ¶ 98.)
 
Accordingly, the
demurrer to the twelfth cause of action is OVERRULED.
 
III. DISPOSITION
 
Defendants’ demurrer to Plaintiffs’ first and twelfth causes of
action is OVERRULED. 
 
Defendants’ demurrer to Plaintiff’s second, third,
fourth and sixth causes of action is SUSTAINED with 20 days leave to amend. 