 Case Number:  24CMCV00154    Hearing Date:   July 16, 2024    Dept:  A 24CMCV00154
Juliana Santoyo v. Hyundai Motor America, et al.
Tuesday,
July 16, 2024, at 8:30 a.m.
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER GRANTING
DEFENDANT’S MOTION TO COMPEL ARBITRATION AND STAY ACTION 
I.       
BACKGROUND
       The
complaint alleges that Hyundai Motor America, (“Hyundai”) issued a warranty to
Plaintiff in connection with the purchase of a 2022 Hyundai Palisade. The vehicle
developed defects which Defendant could not repair. Defendant allegedly failed
to comply with its obligations under the Song-Beverly Consumer Warranty Act
(“the Act”). 
II.     
ARGUMENTS
       Defendants,
Hyundai Modern Equity Holdings Little Hills, Inc., request an order
compelling this matter to binding arbitration pursuant to the Federal
Arbitration Act (“FAA”) based on the warranty in the “Owner’s Handbook &
Warranty Information” (“Handbook”) requiring arbitration of any disputes. Alternatively,
Defendants argue that Plaintiff enrolled their vehicle in Hyundai’s “Bluelink
Services” pursuant to a Connected Services Agreement (“CSA") that requires
Plaintiff to submit claims to binding arbitration. Hyundai’s standing to demand
arbitration arises from those agreements between Plaintiff and Hyundai. Plaintiff
is estopped to deny the validity of the arbitration agreement while
simultaneously claiming benefits pursuant to the manufacturer’s warranty. 
       In
opposition, Plaintiff argues that equitable estoppel does not apply because the
claims do not arise from the Retail Installment Sales Contract (“Sales Contract”)
between Plaintiff and the dealer. Hyundai is not a signatory to that agreement.
The agreements to arbitrate are not enforceable as they are unconscionable. 
       In
reply, Hyundai asserts its arguments are not based on the Sales Contract. Plaintiff’s
complaint arises from Defendant’s warranty and repair obligations. Equitable
estoppel applies. Plaintiff cannot avoid her obligations under the warranty and
claim she did not have notice of its arbitration requirements. Plaintiff did
not meet her burden of establishing that the agreements at issue between
Plaintiff and Hyundai are procedurally and substantively unconscionable.        
 
 
III.    LEGAL
STANDARDS
The court can order
the parties to arbitrate the matter on petition of a party to an arbitration
agreement. (Code Civ. Proc., § 1281.2.) The petitioner’s burden is to establish that a
valid arbitration agreement exists. The opposing party’s burden is to establish
a defense to enforcement based on a preponderance of evidence.  (Molecular Analytical Systems v.
Ciphergen Biosystems, Inc. (2010)
186 Cal.App.4th 696, 705.)
 
IV.    DISCUSSION
       Plaintiff alleges that Defendant’s
warranty obligations “arise out of warranty and repair obligations of HYUNDAI
MOTOR AMERICA in connection with a vehicle Plaintiff purchased and for which
HYUNDAI MOTOR AMERICA issued a written warranty. The warranty was not issued by
the selling dealership.” (Complaint, ¶ 5.) Hyundai’s demand for arbitration
arises from the warranty and CSA. Plaintiff improperly refers to the Sales
Contract on which Hyundai does not rely. 
       The warranty issued by Defendant is expressed
in bold and in all caps within the Handbook and requires binding arbitration
for any disputes arising from repairs under warranty.
“IF YOU PURCHASED OR LEASED YOUR VEHICLE IN CALIFORNIA, YOUR WARRANTY
IS MADE SUBJECT TO THE TERMS OF THIS BINDING ARBITRATION PROVISION. BY USING
THE VEHICLE, OR REQUESTING OR ACCEPTING BENEFITS UNDER THIS WARRANTY, INCLUDING
HAVING ANY REPAIRS PERFORMED UNDER WARRANTY, YOU AGREE TO BE BOUND BY THESE
TERMS. IF YOU DO NOT AGREE WITH THESE TERMS, PLEASE CONTACT US AT
OPT-OUT@HMAUSA.COM WITHIN THIRTY (30) DAYS OF YOUR PURCHASE OR LEASE TO OPT-OUT
OF THIS ARBITRATION PROVISION.” (Ali Ameripour Decl., Ex. 3, pp. 12-14.)
 
       The
agreement expressly states it is governed by the Federal Arbitration Act, and
that the agreement is to be “broadly interpreted and to make all disputes and
claims between us (including our affiliated companies) relating to or arising
out of your vehicle purchase, use or performance of your vehicle, or the
vehicle warranty subject to arbitration to the maximum extent permitted by law.”
(Id. pp.
13.)
       Under Section 2 of the FAA, written arbitration
agreements are valid, irrevocable, and enforceable “save upon such grounds as
exist at law or in equity for the revocation of a contract.” (Arthur
Andersen LLP v. Carlisle
(2009) 556 U.S. 624, 629–630.) Even
when the FAA applies, state law governs such matters as who is bound by and who
may enforce an arbitration agreement [citations omitted].” (Thomas v. Westlake (2012) 204 Cal.App.4th 605, 614, n.7.) Finally, California
contract law principles determine if an agreement to arbitrate exists; “the
basic requirements for formation of a contract must be present,” including parties
capable of contract, consent, a lawful object, and sufficient consideration. (Lopez
v. Charles Schwab & Co., Inc.
(2004) 118 Cal.App.4th 1224, 1230.)

       Plaintiff
has not established any defenses to enforcement of the contract. Plaintiff’s
claims are expressly alleged to arise from Defendant’s failure to adhere to its
warranty obligations. The warranty is issued by Hyundai, and Plaintiff
acknowledges receiving the Handbook at the time of delivery. (Santoyo decl., ¶
6.)
       Defendant
argues that Plaintiff is estopped to argue that the arbitration agreement is
invalid since Plaintiff expressly alleges she relied on the benefits and
warranties of the manufacturer’s warranty and not the Sales Contract.
(Complaint, ¶9.) Plaintiff attempts to negate her own allegations asserting that
she did not rely on either the Sales Contract or the Handbook, but rather she
relied “exclusively” on the representations by Win Hyundai Carson. (Santoyo
decl., ¶ 8.) Plaintiff did not allege a claim against Win Hyundai Carson.
(Complaint, pp. 2:1-6.)
       Ordinarily,
estoppel would apply to enforce a contract against a non-signatory. The
principle of equitable estoppel applies "when the causes of action against
the nonsignatory are ‘intimately founded in and intertwined’ with the
underlying contract obligations … Under those circumstances, where a plaintiff ‘relies
on contract terms in a claim against a nonsignatory defendant, even if not
exclusively, a plaintiff may be equitably estopped from repudiating the
arbitration clause contained in that agreement.’” (Boucher v. Alliance Title Co.,
Inc. (2005) 127
Cal.App.4th 262, 272.) Here,
Hyundai is a party to the arbitration agreement set forth in its written
warranty on which Plaintiff’s claims are based. 
       Plaintiff
has not established that the warranty agreement is unconscionable. The court
considers two elements to determine whether that is a valid defense. The first
element, procedural unconscionability, requires evidence that the contract was
adhesive in nature, such as where the employee lacks the ability to negotiate
and lacks meaningful choice or where the unconscionable provision is hidden
within a “prolix printed form.” (Samaniego v. Empire Today LLC (2012) 205 Cal.App.4th 1138, 1144.) The second element, substantive
unconscionability, involves a contract that is one-sided or overly harsh. (Fitz v. NCR Corp. (2004) 118 Cal.App.4th 702, 713 [Agreements that are “unfairly one-sided” and lack
“mutuality of obligations” such as where the weaker party is required to
arbitrate, while the stronger party is afforded a choice of forums are
unenforceable.].) 
       While
both elements are required to be present, they do not have to be present to the
same degree. Rather, "the more substantively oppressive the contract term,
the less evidence of procedural unconscionability is required to come to the
conclusion that the term is unenforceable, and vice versa." (Armendariz
v. Foundation Health Psychcare Services, Inc.
(2000) 24 Cal.4th 83, 114.) 
       Plaintiff
argues she was not given notice of the warranty in the Handbook and its
requirement for arbitration and was not made aware of it until she received
Defendant’s motion. Plaintiff asserts that the warranty is “buried” and
unenforceable. An agreement is not procedurally unconscionable if a person is "pressed
for sufficient time to thoroughly read and understand an arbitration agreement."
(Dougherty
v. Roseville Heritage Partners
(2020) 47 Cal.App.5th 93, 103–104.)
Moreover, a plaintiff can be bound by an arbitration agreement regardless of
whether she read it or was aware of it. (Id.)
       Nor is
Defendant obligated to "highlight
the arbitration clause of its contract, nor […] to specifically call that
clause to [plaintiff’s] attention. Any state law imposing such an obligation
would be preempted by the FAA. … Furthermore, we have held that even when a
customer is assured it is not necessary to read a standard form contract with
an arbitration clause, “it is generally unreasonable, in reliance on such
assurances, to neglect to read a written contract before signing it." (Sanchez
v. Valencia Holding Co., LLC
(2015) 61 Cal.4th 899, 914–915.) 
       Moreover,
Defendant permitted Plaintiff to opt out of the arbitration agreement. (Ali
Ameripour Decl., Ex. 3, pp. 12-14. [“IF YOU DO NOT AGREE WITH THESE TERMS,
PLEASE CONTACT US AT OPT-OUT@HMAUSA.COM WITHIN THIRTY (30) DAYS OF YOUR
PURCHASE OR LEASE TO OPT-OUT OF THIS ARBITRATION PROVISION.”].) By its terms,
the agreement to arbitrate was not mandatory. This was not a “take it or leave
it” provision.
       Plaintiff
has not established that the agreement was substantively unconscionable.   Plaintiff
does not refer to any terms that are one-sided or lack mutuality of obligation.
Instead, Plaintiff refers to characteristics she believes were procedurally
unconscionable, which is the first element of unconscionability. (Opp. 13:1-6.)
Here, the obligation to arbitrate was imposed on Hyundai and Plaintiff equally.
Defendant agreed to pay for arbitration fees except for the initial fee.
(Ameripour decl., Ex. 3, pp. 13.).
V.     
CONCLUSION
       Section 3 of the FAA requires a stay of
the action on application of one of the parties “if it involves an ‘issue
referable to arbitration under an agreement in writing.’ 9 U.S.C. § 3.” (Arthur
Andersen LLP v. Carlisle (2009) 556 U.S. 624, 630.) Accordingly,
Defendant’s motion to compel arbitration is GRANTED. The action is stayed until
completion of arbitration or further order of the use. The court sets an OSC
re: Arbitration for February 10, 2025,  at 8:30 a.m. in Department A of the Compton
Courthouse.