 Case Number:  21CMCV00174    Hearing Date:   July 16, 2024    Dept:  A 
21CMCV00174
 Nicolas Perez v. General Motors, LLC
Tuesday,
 July 16, 2024, at 8:30 a.m.
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER GRANTING PLAINTIFF’S
 MOTION FOR ATTORNEYS’ FEES
[TENTATIVE] ORDER DENYING DEFENDANT’S MOTION TO
TAX COSTS
 
I.       
BACKGROUND       
       Plaintiff
alleges that Defendant issued an express warranty in connection with
Plaintiff’s purchase of a 2019 Chevrolet Silverado. Plaintiff alleges that the
vehicle developed defects in its transmission, braking, and mechanical systems
which Defendant failed to remedy or repair in violation of the Song-Beverly
Consumer Warranty Act (“Act”).
       On
September 18, 2023, Plaintiff filed Notice of Settlement of Entire Case.
Plaintiff now requests attorney’s fees of $55,497.00 and additional fees of
$5,000 to review Defendant’s opposition to this motion and to appear at the
hearing. [1]
II.     
ARGUMENTS
       Plaintiff
argues he is entitled to attorney’s fees under the Act because Defendant
unreasonably forced Plaintiff to file suit and litigate the case. Defendant
settled the case for $110,000, which includes damages for restitution and civil
penalties. 
       In
opposition, Defendant argues this case did not present any unique issues and
did not require special skill. This case is identical to the hundreds of
matters litigated against Defendant. The fee request is padded, unreasonable,
inefficient, and unsupported by the record.  
       In
reply, Plaintiff argues that Defendant’s contentions are based on an entirely
arbitrary assessment of the work expended by Plaintiff to litigate this case,
which arose as a result of Defendant’s unreasonable conduct. Other courts have
affirmed that Plaintiff’s counsel’s fees are reasonable. 
 
 
III.   
LEGAL STANDARDS
       A
prevailing buyer in an action under the SBA “shall be allowed by the court” to
recover the aggregate amount of costs and expenses, “including attorney’s fees
based on actual time expended, determined by the court to have been reasonably
incurred by the buyer in connection with the commencement and prosecution of
such action.” (Civ.
Code, § 1794 subd.(d).) A prevailing buyer has the burden of showing that
the fees incurred were allowable, reasonably necessary to the conduct of the
litigation, and were reasonable in amount. 
(Pulliam
v. HNL Automotive Inc. (2021) 60 Cal.App.5th 396, 405.) The
reasonable hourly rate is that prevailing in the community for similar work. (Id.)

       A reasonable fee can be measured by the
marketplace by analyzing the quality and necessity of services and then
comparing that cost with what other attorneys with similar experience and
ability charge for the same services. (Shaffer
v. Superior Court (1995) 33 Cal.App.4th 993, 1002.)
       In “lemon law” cases, the
court applies the lodestar method in calculating attorney’s fees, including the
use of fee multipliers where applicable. (Robertson v. Fleetwood Travel Trailers of California, Inc. (2006)
144 Cal.App.4th 785, 818.) The court determines a lodestar
figure “based on a careful compilation of the actual time spent and reasonable
hourly compensation for each attorney.” (Robertson at 819.) The lodestar may be
augmented or diminished “by taking various relevant factors into account
including (1) the novelty and difficulty of the questions involved and the
skill displayed in presenting them; (2) the extent to which the nature of the
litigation precluded other employment by the attorneys; and (3) the contingent
nature of the  fee award, based on the uncertainty of prevailing on
the merits and of establishing eligibility for the award.” (Robertson at 819.) The multiplier is a risk
enhancement based on the probability of loss. (Robertson at 821.)  
       The prevailing party is entitled to
“’compensation for all the hours reasonably spent” in litigating
the action to a successful conclusion. (Ibid., italics in original.)
‘Reasonably spent’ means that time spent ‘in the form of inefficient or
duplicative efforts is not subject to compensation. (Horsford
v. Board of Trustees of California State University
(2005) 132 Cal.App.4th 359, 394.)
       The court may rely on his or her own
experience and is given broad discretion in calculating reasonable attorney’s
fees. (Ketchum
v. Moses (2001) 24 Cal.4th 1122, 1132
["The experienced trial judge is the best judge of the value of
professional services rendered in his court, and while his judgment is of
course subject to review, it will not be disturbed unless the appellate court
is convinced that it is clearly wrong.”].)
IV.   
DISCUSSION
       Plaintiff
seeks reimbursement of fees incurred by a partner (Jordan G. Cohen), a senior
associate (Rodney Gee), an associate, (Diana Rivero) and four paralegals. The
bulk of the work was completed by Ms. Rivero (95.6 hours) and Robert Aguilar
(18.5 hours).
       The
Court has considered all of the relevant factors including the nature of the
case, which in the Court’s view, is a relatively routine “lemon law” case that did
not involve novel or difficult questions of law or fact and resolved relatively
quickly with little motion practice. The case required minimal discovery. The
Court also considers the outcome of the case, which resulted in restitution and
civil penalties without requirement of trial.
       With
respect to the number of hours that each of three attorneys and five paralegals
spent on various tasks, the Court has reviewed the billing record and finds
that a number of the itemized tasks are unreasonable, inefficient, and at times
duplicative among the attorneys and paralegal. Plaintiff’s counsel is entitled
to reasonable compensation; however, “‘padding” in the form of inefficient or
duplicative efforts is not subject to compensation." (Ketchum
v. Moses (2001) 24 Cal.4th 1122, 1132.) 
       The
Court is permitted to make “across the board cuts and apply a negative
multiplier” where it determines that the case was not complex, as well as the
experience of counsel in this area. (Warren
v. Kia Motors America, Inc. (2018) 30 Cal.App.5th 24, 41 [permitting a
negative multiplier of 33% to the lodestar fee request of $351,055.26,
resulting in a fee award of $115,848.24].) 
       The
court has discretion to apply a reduction in hours for duplicative and or
excessive billing. Proper factors to consider in applying a negative reduction
are the lack of complexity, that the matter did not go to trial, that name
partners were doing work that could have been done by lower-billing attorneys,
and that all the attorneys were doing work that could have been done by
paralegals, thus applying a 39% reduction in the lodestar. (Morris
v. Hyundai Motor America (2019) 41 Cal.App.5th 24, 41.) These factors
are applicable here. Accordingly, the court declines fees incurred by senior
counsel and a senior associate and four of the five paralegals except for
Robert Aguilar. 
       The
court finds that $400 per hour incurred by Diana Rivero and $210 per hour
incurred by Mr. Aguilar are reasonable. Ms. Rivero claims 95.6 hours of work
for this case which the court reduces to 77 hours. Mr. Aguilar’s total hours of
18.5 are reduced to 15 hours. 
V.     
CONCLUSION
Accordingly, Plaintiff’s Motion for attorney’s
fees is GRANTED. The court permits fees as follows:



Counsel/paralegal


Hourly fee


Time


 




Diana Rivero


$400.00


77.00


$30,800.00




Robert Aguilar 


$210.00


15


$3,150.00




TOTAL


 


 


$33,742.00



 

//

 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER DENYING DEFENDANT’S MOTION TO
TAX COSTS
 
I.       
BACKGROUND
       The
parties settled this matter on September 18, 2023, and Defendant agreed to pay
fees and costs to be determined by the court. Plaintiff filed his Memorandum of
Costs on April 22, 2024, requesting $2,974.16 in costs. 
       Defendant
asks for a reduction of $2,255.88, as these costs were unreasonable and
unnecessary, the motions to compel discovery were boilerplate, frivolous, and
did nothing to advance the case. Plaintiff seeks to enrich himself. Plaintiff’s
counsel should recover no more than $718.28.
       In
opposition, Plaintiff states he is entitled to recover costs as the prevailing
party. Recoverable costs under the Song-Beverly Consumer Warranty Act (“SBA”)
are not limited to statutory costs defined under Code Civ. Proc., § 1033.5. Plaintiff
is entitled to out-of-pocket expenses. The SBA permits recovery of costs and
expenses that are far broader than section 1033.5 permits.
        In reply, Defendant reiterates its arguments
that the majority of Plaintiff’s costs were not necessary or reasonable. 
 
II.     
LEGAL STANDARDS
       The court may, upon motion or at any time in
its discretion and upon terms it deems proper: (1) strike out any irrelevant,
false, or improper matter inserted in any pleading; or (2) strike out all or
any part of the pleading not drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of
California, a court rule, or an order of the Court. (Code Civ. Proc., § 436 subd (a)-(b).)         
       Section 1032 of the Code of Civil
Procedure “is the fundamental statutory authority for awarding costs in civil
actions.” (Leiper
v. Gallegos (2021) 69 Cal.App.5th
284, 297.) Section 1033.5
“is a list of what is, and is not, allowable as a cost, [and] similarly is
trial-court-oriented, with items exclusively related to trial court proceedings
(e.g., references to jury fees, taking depositions, process servers, etc.).” (Stratton
v. Beck (2018) 30 Cal.App.5th 901,
910.)” 
       A
prevailing party defined in part as the party with a net monetary recovery is
entitled to costs as a matter of right. (Code
Civ. Proc., § 1032 subd. (b).) The SBA permits the buyer’s recovery of
“costs and expenses … determined to have been reasonably incurred by the
buyer.” (Civ.
Code, § 1794 subd (d).) For purposes of the SBA, "expenses encompass
out-of-pocket expenses beyond the costs identified in Code of Civil Procedure
section 1033.5.” (Smalley
v. Subaru of America, Inc. (2022) 87 Cal.App.5th 450, 457.)
Accordingly, Plaintiff is not limited to costs articulated under section 1033.5.
(Jensen
v. BMW of North America, Inc. (1995) 35 Cal.App.4th 112, 137 ["it
is clear the Legislature intended the word ‘expenses’ to cover items not
included in the detailed statutory definition of ‘costs.’”].) Instead, the
court considers whether costs were “reasonably incurred by the buyer in
connection with the commencement and prosecution of [this] action.” (Jensen
at 138.) 
       Defendant
has not established that any of the expenses incurred by Plaintiff as
distinguished from statutory costs were unreasonably incurred. 
1.     
Filing fees incurred for the attorney’s fees
motion, discovery motions and court reporter fees incurred for the motion
hearing were reasonable costs and expenses given Plaintiff’s inability to
obtain relevant information to prosecute the action. The fact that Defendant
contends that this is an “optional cost” does not establish it was unreasonably
incurred. Moreover, reservation fees are required at the time of reservation. 
2.        
Advanced and nonrefundable jury fees are
required by local rule to be deposited in order for Plaintiff to preserve his
right to a jury trial. (Code Civ. Proc., § 631 subd (b).) Although the matter
did not go to trial, it remains a reasonably incurred expense. 
3.        
Remaining costs for filing CMC statements, Notice
of Change of Address, and related notices and courtesy copy delivery fees.
         Defendant contends that the notice “fees” were
administrative in nature and not required for the litigation. While the Court
may not charge a filing fee for some of these notices, Plaintiff’s counsel
still incurred an expense to a third party to file the notices with the court
electronically. A Case Management Conference statement is required by the
Court.  Defendant has not established
that the expense of serving courtesy copies to the court is unreasonable. It is
required with respect to discovery motions. (LASC First Amended General Order,
¶ 9.) It stands to reason that a litigant should make the court aware of
changes in contact information to ensure delivery of court-issued
communication. 
V.     CONCLUSION
         Based on the foregoing, Defendant’s Motion to Tax Costs is
DENIED. 
       



 
 


