 Case Number:  22CMCV00331    Hearing Date:   July 16, 2024    Dept:  A 
22CMCV00331
 Antonio Carlin, Guillermo Rios v. Esteban Carlin
Tuesday, July
 16, 2024, at 8:30 a.m.
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER
GRANTING
 LEAVE TO FILE AN AMENDED ANSWER
 
                                                                                       
I.         
BACKGROUND
The complaint, filed on September 21, 2022, alleges that pursuant
to an oral agreement, Plaintiffs and Defendant agreed to buy real property
together, to share title and expenses equally, and to split profits if the
house was sold. Because of Plaintiffs’ difficulties, only Defendant was placed on
title to the home. Defendant now claims to be the sole owner. Plaintiffs allege
claims for partition, accounting, breach of contract, breach of the implied
covenant of good faith and fair dealing, fraud, constructive trust, and
declaratory relief. 
                                                                                       
II.         
ARGUMENTS
Defendant moves to amend the answer to allege affirmative defenses
which have become necessary based on written discovery obtained from
Plaintiffs. The amended pleading will also narrow and clarify the issues.
Plaintiffs will not suffer prejudice from the amended answer. 
Plaintiffs request an order awarding sanctions against Defendant
under Code Civ. Proc., § 128.5 because the motion is frivolous.  It has been over one year since Defendant
filed his answer. Defendant has not explained the delay. Plaintiffs will suffer
prejudice because discovery is complete. The amended answer will require
Plaintiffs to engage in further discovery and cause a trial delay. The evidence
does not substantiate the absence of an agreement to sell the property as
Defendant proposes to add in the amended answer. 
In reply, Defendant argues that where it appears that amendment is
necessary, the court may postpone trial. Plaintiffs have not shown that
Defendant intentionally engaged in dilatory litigation. 
                                                                             
III.         
LEGAL STANDARDS
      The court can permit amendment of any
pleading on any terms and “in other particulars” as may be proper.” (Code Civ.
Proc., § 473(a).) The court’s discretion will usually be exercised liberally to
permit amendment of the pleadings. (Nestle
v. City of Santa Monica (1972) 6
Cal.3d 920, 939.) If the motion
is timely made, and the granting of the motion will not result in prejudice to
the opposing party, it is error to refuse permission to amend. (Morgan
v. Superior Court of Cal. In and For Los Angeles County (1959) 172 Cal.App.2d 527, 530 ["… it is error to refuse permission to amend
and where the refusal also results in a party being deprived of the right to
assert a meritorious cause of action or a meritorious defense, it is not only
error but an abuse of discretion.”].) Amendments are liberally permitted up to
the date of trial or during trial where no prejudice is shown. (Atkinson
v. Elk Corp. (2003) 109
Cal.App.4th 739, 761.) 
      Whether an amendment should be allowed “rests in the sound discretion
of the trial court. [Citations.] And courts are much more critical of proposed
amendments to answers when offered after long unexplained delay or on the eve
of trial [citations], or where there is a lack of diligence, or there is
prejudice to the other party (citations).” (Hulsey
v. Koehler (1990) 218 Cal.App.3d 1150,
1159.) 
                                                                                      
IV.         
DISCUSSION
      While
Plaintiff argues that the evidence does not substantiate the proposed
amendments, the court does not consider the validity of the amendments at this
stage. The “better course is to allow a plaintiff to amend the complaint and
then let the parties test its legal sufficiency in other appropriate
proceedings.” (Brown v. Ralphs Grocery Co. (2018) 28 Cal.App.5th 824, 843.) Nor may a court condition leave to
amend on production of admissible evidence substantiating the allegations of
the amended pleading. (Sanai v. Saltz (2009) 170 Cal.App.4th 746, 770.) 
      Defendant
has shown diligence and reason for the delay in amending the answer which was
predicated upon receipt of responses to discovery which is ongoing. (Robert
Krasney decl., ¶¶ 14-15.) Plaintiffs contend that they will suffer prejudice
because they are required to incur additional costs for discovery pertaining to
the new affirmative defenses. Defendant contends the amendments will assert
dispositive defenses and narrow the issues. Thus, the only “true” prejudice to
Plaintiffs is that they will “now have to go back and try the case on the
merits. But since the law strongly favors trial and disposition on the merits,
there is no prejudice." (Rogalski v. Nabers Cadillac (1992) 11 Cal.App.4th 816, 822.)
      Trial
is presently set for November 20, 2024. Plaintiffs have not explained what
lengthy discovery is required that cannot be completed before the trial date.
To the extent discovery cannot be completed prior to trial, any party may move
the court for leave to continue trial and discovery as necessary.
      Plaintiffs
have not shown that the motion is frivolous and requires imposition of
sanctions. A court has discretion to award reasonable expenses including
attorney’s fees incurred as a result of "actions or tactics, made in bad
faith, that are frivolous or solely intended to cause unnecessary delay."
(Code Civ. Proc., § 128.5 subd. (a).) “Frivolous” actions or
tactics means "totally and completely without merit or for the sole
purpose of harassing an opposing party." (Code Civ. Proc., § 128.5 subd. (b)(1) and (2).) 
      The
moving party’s burden is to establish that the action or tactic was "(1)
totally and completely without merit, measured by the objective, ‘reasonable
attorney’ standard, or (2) motivated solely by an intention to harass or cause
unnecessary delay, measured by a subjective standard. [Citations.] Whether
sanctions are warranted depends on an evaluation of all the circumstances
surrounding the questioned action.” (Wallis v. PHL Associates, Inc. (2008) 168 Cal.App.4th 882, 893.)
      Plaintiffs’
request for imposition of sanctions under Section 128.5 is procedurally
defective in that the motion is required to be filed separately from other
motions or requests. (Code Civ. Proc., § 128.5 subd. (f)(2)(a).) Secondly, since
Plaintiffs contend that filing the motion was frivolous, Plaintiffs must comply
with the 21-day safe harbor provision which applies where the “action or
tactic” is the filing of a motion or pleading that is frivolous and without
merit. First, the ‘moving party must serve on the offending party a motion for
sanctions.’ (Ibid.) Service of the sanctions motion triggers the 21-day
safe harbor period during which the moving party may not file the motion. (Ibid.)
That is because the offending party may avoid sanctions by withdrawing the
challenged pleading during the 21-day period. (Ibid.) Second, if the
offending party does not withdraw the challenged pleading during that period,
then the moving party may file the sanctions motion.” (Id.) Strict
compliance with the safe harbor provision is required, and failing to comply
precludes an award of sanctions. (Id. at 551.)
 
                                                                                       
V.     CONCLUSION
   
Based on the foregoing, Defendant’s motion for leave to file an amended
answer is GRANTED. Defendant is ordered to file and serve its first amended
answer forthwith.  Plaintiffs’ request
for imposition of sanctions is DENIED. 
      
 