 Case Number:  23SMCV01044    Hearing Date:   February 6, 2024    Dept:  207 TENTATIVE RULING 
 



DEPARTMENT


207




HEARING DATE


February 6, 2024




CASE NUMBER


23SMCV01044




MOTION


Demurrer




MOVING PARTIES


Defendants The Bessemer Trust Company of California, N.A.;
  E&TB Investments, LLC; Tara Daughrity Broida; Steven J. Dwyer; and
  Elizabeth Kim




OPPOSING PARTIES


Plaintiffs Jennifer Flynn Adams and Christoper Adams



 
MOTION
 
This case is a landlord/tenant dispute regarding the conditions of real
property Plaintiffs Jennifer Flynn Adams (“Flynn”) and Christoper Adams (together,
“Plaintiffs”) leased, with the intent to purchase in the future.  
 
Plaintiffs’ first amended complaint (“FAC”), alleges fourteen causes
of action for (1) breach of statutory duties; (2) negligence; (3) maintenance
of a nuisance and trespass; (4) breach of lease agreement; (5) breach of
contract; (6) fraud and deceit; (7) negligent misrepresentation; (8) breach of
the duty of good faith and fair dealing; (9) quantum meruit; (10) intentional
interference with prospective economic advantage; (11) negligent interference
with prospective economic advantage; (12) unfair business practices; (13)
intentional infliction of emotional distress; and (14) declaratory and
injunctive relief.
 
Defendants The Bessemer Trust Company of California, N.A. (“Bessemer”);
E&TB Investments, LLC (“E&TB”); Tara Daughrity Broida (“Broida”);
Steven J. Dwyer (“Dwyer”); and Elizabeth Kim (collectively, “Defendants”) demur
to the third, fifth, eighth, ninth, tenth, eleventh, and thirteenth causes of
action for failure to state a cause of action, pursuant to Code of Civil
Procedure, section 430.10, subdivision (e). 
Defendants additionally demur to the third, fifth, tenth, and eleventh
causes of action on the basis of uncertainty, pursuant to Code of Civil
Procedure, section 430.10, subdivision (f). 

 
Plaintiffs oppose the demurrer and Defendants reply.
 
REQUEST
FOR JUDICIAL NOTICE
 
            Defendants request judicial notice
of a copy of a printout from the Delaware Secretary of State website indicating
Defendant E&TB Investment, LLC was incorporated on December 27, 2018.
 
Official notices, statements, and certificates made by a Secretary of
State are properly the subject of judicial notice as documents reflecting
official acts of a state’s executive department, pursuant to Evidence Code
section 452, subdivision (c).  (See
generally Friends of Shingle Springs Interchange, Inc. v. County of El
Dorado (2011) 200 Cal.App.4th 1470, 1483–1484.)
However,
“materials prepared by private parties and merely on file with the state
agencies” may not be properly judicially noticed as an official act of a
legislative, executive, or judicial department of the United States or any
state of the United States.  (People
v. Thacker (1985) 175 Cal.App.3d 594, 598.)
            
            The printout in question reflects
that E&TB Investments LLC is in good standing, and shows an incorporation/formation
date of 12/27/2018.  Therefore, it
reflects the State of Delaware’s official act of accepting E&TB’s application
and deeming it an entity as of 12/27/2018.
 
            Therefore, the Court grants Defendant’s
request for judicial notice.
 
OBJECTIONS
 
            Plaintiffs object to and request to
strike Defendants’ demurrer, exhibits attached to the demurrer, and reply brief
on the grounds that (1) the demurrer and reply brief use excessive footnotes to
circumvent the applicable page limit; (2) the reply raises new arguments not
raised in the demurrer; and (3) Defendants improperly reference arguments made
in the prior demurrer.  
 
            While the Court acknowledges that
Defendants have employed a liberal use of footnotes, neither brief exceeds the
applicable page limitations,[1]
and given the number of causes of action at issue and the number of Defendants
involved, the Court does not find Defendants’ use of footnotes excessive under
the circumstances.
 
            The Court agrees that, to the extent
the Reply raises new arguments, due process dictates that Plaintiffs should
have an opportunity to respond.  However,
Plaintiffs do not articulate what new arguments Defendants have made in the
Reply, and the Court is uncertain what Plaintiffs are referring to.  Regardless, the Court bases its analysis solely
on arguments raised in the demurrer, so to the extent the Reply contains new
arguments, the Court does not rely upon them. 

 
The Court also agrees that the exhibits attached to the demurrer
should be disregarded.  Extrinsic
evidence may not be considered on a demurrer, and Defendants did not request
the Court to take judicial notice of the exhibits attached directly to the
demurrer.  (See, e.g., Ion Equip.
Corp. v. Nelson (1980) 110 Cal.App.3d 868, 881 [“The purpose of a general demurrer
is to determine the sufficiency of the complaint and the court should only rule
on matters disclosed in that pleading”].) 
Therefore, the Court does not consider them in its analysis.  
 
ANALYSIS
 
1.      DEMURRER
 
“It is black letter law that a demurrer tests the legal sufficiency of
the allegations in a complaint.”  (Lewis v. Safeway, Inc. (2015)
235 Cal.App.4th 385, 388.)  In testing the sufficiency of a cause of
action, a court accepts “[a]s true all material facts properly pled and matters
which may be judicially noticed but disregard contentions, deductions or
conclusions of fact or law.  [A court
also gives] the complaint a reasonable interpretation, reading it as a whole
and its parts in their context.”  (290
Division (EAT), LLC v. City & County of San Francisco (2022) 86
Cal.App.5th 439, 450 [cleaned up]; Hacker v. Homeward Residential, Inc.
(2018) 26 Cal.App.5th 270, 280 [“in considering the merits of a demurrer,
however, “the facts alleged in the pleading are deemed to be true, however
improbable they may be”].)
 
Further, in ruling on a demurrer, a court must “liberally construe”
the allegations of the complaint “with a view to substantial justice between
the parties.”  (See Code Civ. Proc., §
452.)  “This rule of liberal construction
means that the reviewing court draws inferences favorable to the plaintiff, not
the defendant.”  (Perez v. Golden Empire Transit Dist. (2012) 209
Cal.App.4th 1228, 1238.)   
 
In summary, “[d]etermining whether the complaint is sufficient as
against the demurrer on the ground that it does not state facts sufficient to
constitute a cause of action, the rule is that if one consideration of all the
facts stated it appears the plaintiff is entitled to any relief at the hands of
the court against the defendants the complaint will be held good although the
facts may not be clearly stated, or may be intermingled with a statement of
other facts irrelevant to the cause of action shown, or although the plaintiff
may demand relief to which he is not entitled under the facts alleged.”  (Gressley v. Williams (1961) 193
Cal.App.2d 636, 639.)
 
A.   
UNCERTAINTY
 
A demurrer for uncertainty will be sustained only where the pleading
is so bad that the responding party cannot reasonably respond - i.e., he or she
cannot reasonably determine what issues must be admitted or denied, or what
claims are directed against him or her. 
(Khoury v. Maly’s of California (1993) 14 Cal.App.4th 612,
616.)  Where a demurrer is made upon the
ground of uncertainty, the demurrer must distinctly specify exactly how or why
the pleading is uncertain, and where such uncertainty appears by reference to
page and line numbers.  (See Fenton
v. Groveland Comm. Services Dist. (1982) 135 Cal.App.3d 797, 809.) 
 
                                                                   
i.           
Third
Cause of Action – Nuisance and Trespass
 
Defendants contend the third cause of action is ambiguous because nuisance
and trespass are two distinct causes of action. 

 
A “nuisance” is “[a]nything which is injurious to health, including,
but not limited to, the illegal sale of controlled substances, or is indecent
or offensive to the senses, or an obstruction to the free use of property, so
as to interfere with the comfortable enjoyment of life or property, or
unlawfully obstructs the free passage or use, in the customary manner, of any
navigable lake, or river, bay, stream, canal, or basin, or any public park,
square, street, or highway, is a nuisance.” 
(Civ. Code, § 3479.)
 
A nuisance may be public, private, or both.  (Koll-Irvine Center Property Owners Assn.
v. County of Orange (1994) 24 Cal.App.4th 1036, 1041.)  “Unlike public nuisance, which is an
interference with the rights of the community at large, private nuisance is a
civil wrong based on disturbance of rights in land.”  (Ibid.)  “So long as the interference is substantial
and unreasonable, and such as would be offensive or inconvenient to the normal
person, virtually any disturbance of the enjoyment of the property may amount
to a nuisance.”  (Ibid.)
 
By contrast, “trespass” is “an unlawful interference with the
possession of property.”  (Staples v.
Hoefke (1987) 189 Cal.App.3d 1397, 1406.) 
To establish trespass, a plaintiff must demonstrate (1) that plaintiff
leased/occupied/controlled the property; (2) defendants intentionally,
recklessly, or negligently entered plaintiff’s property or caused another
person or thing to enter plaintiff’s property; (3) plaintiff did not give
permission for the entry or defendant exceeded plaintiff’s permission; (4) plaintiff
was actually harmed; and (5) defendant’s conduct was a substantial factor in
causing plaintiff’s harm.  Such entry can
be above or below the surface of the land. 
(CACI No. 2000 (2023).)
 
In analyzing pleadings, Courts elevate substance over form.  (See Plumlee
v. Poag (1984) 150 Cal.App.3d 541, 546 [“Courts under the reformed system
of procedure look to the substance of things rather than to form”].)  
 
Here, Plaintiffs allege:
 
72. At all relevant times herein, said Defendants
negligently, intentionally, and/or otherwise, failed to adequately maintain,
design, modify, and/or repair the drainage and plumbing, sewage, and septic
systems, or otherwise remove standing water and/or sewage in and around the
SUBJECT PREMISES, and failed to prevent water and/or sewage from accumulating
on the premises which was allowed to pool in and around Plaintiffs' home, and
penetrate/trespass into their living space, thus, substantially interfering with
Plaintiffs’ quiet use and enjoyment, and/or possession, of the SUBJECT
PREMISES. 
 
73. Defendants' committed acts and omissions have
resulted in substandard physical characteristics of the premises and to human
activities in violation of Health & Safety Code §§17920.3 and 17920.10, as
well as Civil Code § 1941, et. Seq. The conditions on or about the premises
affect the health, welfare, or safety of plaintiffs and their family and
constitute the creation of a nuisance under said code sections and within the
meaning of Civil Code §§3479, 3480, 3481, Code of Civil Procedure §731, and
further interfere with Plaintiffs’ contractual as well as legal right to use
and enjoyment, and possession, of the SUBJECT PREMISES.
 
74. As set forth herein, Plaintiffs have
sustained and still suffer substantial harm from continuing water intrusion,
failing foundations, sewage overspill, a problem with diverted/standing water
around their home caused by diversion of rainwater and other water by
improper/inadequate drainage in the surrounding areas, outside structures, and
by inadequate drainage and plumbing systems. 
 
75. As a proximate result of the contractual and
statutory violations, and maintenance of the nuisance, Plaintiffs, at all
relevant times herein, became continuously exposed to an environment that
deprived Plaintiffs of the safe, healthy, and comfortable use of the premises,
all of which is indecent or offensive to the senses, or an obstruction to the
free use of property, so as to interfere with the comfortable use and enjoyment
of life or property. 
 
76. As a proximate result of said Defendants'
maintenance of the nuisance and trespass, Plaintiffs suffered property damage,
economic loss, personal injuries, discomfort, annoyance, emotional distress,
and mental anguish, all to their general damage according to proof. 
 
77. In maintaining the nuisance and trespass,
said Defendants acted with full knowledge of the consequences thereof and of
the damage being caused to Plaintiffs despite this knowledge, Defendants failed
to abate the nuisance by repairing the defective and dangerous conditions of
the premises or causing them to be repaired, entitling Plaintiffs to injunctive
relief therefore. 
 
78. Said Defendants threaten to, and unless
restrained and ordered to restore proper drainage, reconstruct substantial
portions of the home, repair or replace the septic system, repair and/or
replace the applicable drainage system, repair and/or replace the applicable
plumbing system, abate all mold infestation with removal and replacement of
damaged structure and/or HVAC system, abate the infestation of the SUBJECT
PREMISES by rodents, spiders and/or insects, and make any other alterations or
repairs to correct the complained of problems, will continue to act in
violation of the LEASE and above-referenced statutes, and thereby continue and
repeat their violations. 
 
79. The actions and omissions of said Defendants
alleged above will irreparably harm Plaintiffs, neighbors, and the general
public.
 
(FAC
¶¶ 72-79.)  
 
Thus, Plaintiff’s allegations implicate both trespass and nuisance.  However,
each cause of action must be separately stated. 
(See California Rules of Court, rule 2.112.)
 
Therefore, the Court sustains
Defendants’ demurrer to the third cause of action for uncertainty, because it improperly
conflates and combines two separate causes of action, and Defendants therefore cannot
reasonably determine which claim (trespass or nuisance) is directed against them
by the third cause of action.
 
                                                                 
ii.           
Fifth
Cause of Action – Breach of Contract based upon Promissory Estoppel
 
Although not raised by the parties, the court notes that the cause of
action labeled “breach of contract based upon promissory estoppel” implicates
two separate and contradictory theories of liability in one cause of action.
 
“Conceptually, promissory
estoppel is distinct from contract in that the promisee's justifiable and
detrimental reliance on the promise is regarded as a substitute for
consideration required as an element of an enforceable contract.”  (Toscano v. Greene Music (2004) 124
Cal.App.4th 685, 692–693.)  
 
“A promissory estoppel claim
also lacks another essential element of a contract claim: the parties’ [mutual]
consent.”  (Douglas E. Barnhart, Inc.
v. CMC Fabricators, Inc. (2012) 211 Cal.App.4th 230, 242.)  As such, the Supreme Court has repeatedly
recognized breach of contract and promissory estoppel “not only as distinct or
alternative theories of recovery but also as mutually exclusive.”  (Id. at p. 243.)
 
Thus, the promises either form
the basis of a contract, or they support recovery under a theory of promissory
estoppel, but they cannot simultaneously support both.
 
Here, a review of the allegations demonstrate that, despite
Plaintiffs’ references to the promises forming an “agreement,” Plaintiffs allege
only a promissory estoppel theory of liability. 
Plaintiffs have separately brought the fourth cause of action for
purported breaches of the lease agreement.
 
Thus, elevating substance over form, the Court construes the fifth
cause of action as stating a claim for promissory estoppel, not breach of
contract.
 
Defendants contend the fifth cause of action for promissory estoppel
is nonetheless uncertain because it is premised on three separate promises, and
therefore combines multiple theories of liability into a single cause of
action.  The Court disagrees.  Defendants’ demurrer demonstrates how well
Defendants have been able to parse the allegations of the fifth cause of action
with respect to the various alleged promises and their applicability to each
Defendant.  Therefore, Defendants do not
demonstrate that any portions of the fifth cause of action are so bad that they
cannot reasonably determine what issues must be admitted or denied, or what
claims are directed against them.  The
Court thus declines to sustain Defendants’ demurrer to the fifth cause of
action on the basis of uncertainty.  
 
                                                               
iii.           
Tenth and
Eleventh Causes of Action – Intentional and Negligent Interference with
Prospective Economic Advantage
 
Defendants contend the tenth and eleventh causes of action “make zero
sense” because the FAC fails to allege facts establishing all of the required
elements of those causes of action.  Whether
Plaintiffs have adequately stated a cause of action is a separate issue from
whether that cause of action is uncertain. 
Again, Defendants do not demonstrate that any portions of the tenth or
eleventh causes of action are so bad they cannot reasonably determine what
issues must be admitted or denied, or what claims are directed against
them.  Rather, Defendants contend that
the allegations are incomplete to state a cause of action.  Therefore, the Court does not sustain
Defendants’ demurrer to the tenth or eleventh causes of action on the basis of
uncertainty.
 
B.    
FAILURE TO STATE A CAUSE OF ACTION
 
                                                                   
i.           
Fifth Cause
of Action – Breach of Contract based upon Promissory Estoppel
 
“The elements of a promissory
estoppel claim are (1) a promise clear and unambiguous in its terms; (2)
reliance by the party to whom the promise is made; (3) [the] reliance must be
both reasonable and foreseeable; and (4) the party asserting the estoppel must
be injured by his reliance.”  (Jones
v. Wachovia Bank (2014) 230 Cal.App.4th 935, 945.)
 
With regard to the first
element, promise, Plaintiffs allege:
 
97. As set forth herein under paragraphs 15
through 22, of this Complaint, in or around June of 2018, representations and
clear and unambiguous promises were made by Defendants BROIDA, DWYER, KIM and
DOES 31-35 regarding (1) the condition and value of the SUBJECT PREMISES; (2)
the exclusive right to future ownership interest to Plaintiffs, and (3) payment
to FLYNN for due diligence services. (Collectively “PROMISES.”)
 
(FAC ¶ 97.)
 
            Yet
despite this promise, Plaintiffs allege Defendants Broida, Burstin, Bessemer,
and ETB “have failed and refuse” to sell the property to Plaintiffs.  (FAC ¶ 110.)
 
As for reliance, Plaintiffs
allege:
 
100. Based thereon, Plaintiffs entered into a
LEASE on June 24, 2018, with MADISON with the intent to purchase the property
per the representations and promises of Defendants and continued with renting
such property in expectations of the promises being kept. This intent of the
parties to proceed in this manner, and to allow for purchase of the SUBJECT
PREMISES by plaintiffs was manifest by the parties not including an integration
clause in the Lease Agreement. 
 
101. In further reasonably relying thereon,
plaintiffs invested a substantial amount of time, money and resources in making
repairs and improvements to the SUBJECT PREMISES which cut significantly into
their work days and billable hours. No reimbursement was requested or offered
because plaintiffs reasonably relied on the stated promises that these efforts
would be taken into consideration for final purchase, and plaintiffs believed
the improvements, repairs, and services provided were for the benefit of their
future home.
 
(FAC ¶¶ 100-101.)
 
            Regarding
foreseeability and damages, Plaintiffs allege:
 
105. As a result of the representations and clear
and unambiguous PROMISES and actions of BROIDA (as Co-Trustee of MADISON),
DWYER (as Co-Trustee of MADISON and on behalf of BESSEMER), KIM, and/or agents
acting on their behalf, and DOES 1-75 regarding: (1) the condition and value of
the SUBJECT PREMISES; (2) the exclusive right to future ownership interest to
Plaintiffs, and (3) payment to FLYNN for due diligence services, it was
reasonably foreseeable that Plaintiffs would and did alter their position in entering
the subject LEASE and moving into the SUBJECT PREMISES, as well as investing a
substantial amount of time, money and resources in making repairs and
improvements to the SUBJECT PREMISES. Plaintiffs have incurred costs, expenses,
and made decisions that now affect their equitable interests, future residency,
work positions, childcare needs, schooling choices, and alternative real estate
opportunities all to their detriment and loss
 
(FAC
¶ 105.)
 
            Defendants
argue (1) the FAC fails to allege any promise made by Defendant E&TB; (2)
the alleged promises fail to state a claim against Defendants Broida or
Bessemer.  
 
            Defendant
E&TB
 
            Defendants
argue the FAC fails to allege any promise made by Defendant E&TB, and in
fact it could not allege any such promise by or on behalf of E&TB because
E&TB did not exist as an entity at the time the promises were allegedly
made.  Plaintiffs counter that although
ET&B did not exist at the time of the alleged promises, it is controlled by
Eric Broida and Defendant Tara Daughrity Broida, who transferred the subject
property to E&TB.
 
            The
Court agrees with Defendants.  Because
E&TB did not exist at the time the alleged promises were made, those
promises could not have been made by or on behalf of E&TB.  To the extent the Broidas broke their promise
to sell the property to Plaintiffs, Plaintiffs’ cause of action for promissory
estoppel is properly brought against the Broidas, not E&TB.
 
            Therefore
the Court sustains E&TB’s demurrer to the fifth cause of action for
promissory estoppel.
 
            Defendants
Broida and Bessemer
 
            Defendants
next argue that Defendant Broida’s alleged promise concerning the “condition
and value” of the property, “that the SUBJECT PREMISES was habitable, safe,
structurally sound and stable, and was in compliance with all building and
safety codes, among other things” was simply a statement of fact, not an
actionable promise.  (See FAC ¶¶ 17, 97.)  Defendants also argue that Defendant Broida’s
alleged promise that “Plaintiffs would have the exclusive right to purchase
said property” (see FAC ¶ 16) is too vague to be enforceable.  Defendants further argue that the promise by
Defendant Bessemer (through Defendant Dwyer) that “authorized FLYNN to perform
‘any and all diligence’ ‘required’ to ascertain the fair market value of the
SUBJECT PREMISES” and agreeing “to pay all fees and costs associated with this
work and provided no limitations cap on time or efforts” (FAC ¶ 21) is also too
vague to be enforceable.
 
            The
Court disagrees.  Whether the alleged
statements were in fact actionable promises such that a reasonable
person in Plaintiffs’ shoes would have similarly relied on them are factual
determinations to be made at later stages of the litigation.  For purposes of pleading, Plaintiffs have
adequately stated a cause of action for promissory estoppel against Defendants
Broida and/or Bessemer.
 
                                                                 
ii.           
Eighth
Cause of Action – Brach of the Duty of Good Faith and Fair Dealing
 
Defendant next contends that
because the Breach of the Duty of Good Faith and Fair Dealing are also premised
on the alleged false promises, the Eighth cause of action must also fail.  The Court agrees that, to the extent
Plaintiffs attempt to premise their eighth cause of action on the
non-contractual promises underlying the fifth cause of action for promissory
estoppel, the eighth cause of action similarly fails.
 
However, the eighth cause of
action is also premised on Defendants’ alleged beaches of the lease
agreement.  Therefore, the eighth cause
of action similarly survives.
 
                                                               
iii.           
Ninth
Cause of Action – Quantum Meruit
 
“The requisite elements of
quantum meruit are (1) the plaintiff acted pursuant to “an explicit or implicit
request for the services” by the defendant, and (2) the services conferred a
benefit on the defendant.”  (Port
Medical Wellness, Inc. v. Connecticut General Life Insurance Company (2018)
24 Cal.App.5th 153, 180.)
 
Defendants contend that the
ninth cause of action, which is premised on the promise allegedly made by
Defendant Dwyer (on behalf of Bessemer) authorizing Plaintiff Flynn to perform
“any and all diligence” regarding the fair market value of the premises, fails
as to Defendant Broida, because there is no allegation that Defendant Broida
made an explicit or implicit request for Plaintiff Flynn’s due diligence
services.
 
Plaintiffs counter that the
FAC alleges that all Defendants were working together on behalf of the
landlord.  The FAC alleges that Madison
was the landlord (FAC ¶ 12), and that “[a]t all time mentioned in this
complaint, BROIDA, BURSTIN, BESSEMER, and DOES 21 through 30 are the alter egos
of MADISON[…]” (FAC ¶ 13.)
 
Therefore, the allegations are
sufficient to withstand demurrer as to Defendant Broida at this stage of the
litigation.
 
                                                               
iv.           
Tenth
and Eleventh Causes of Action – Intentional and Negligent Interference with
Prospective Economic Advantage
 
The elements of a cause of action for intentional interference with
prospective economic advantage are: (1) the existence between plaintiff and a
third party of an economic relationship with the probability of future economic
benefit to the plaintiff; (2) defendant’s knowledge of the relationship; (3)
intentionally wrongful acts designed to disrupt the relationship; (4) actual
disruption of the relationship; and (5) economic harm proximately caused by the
defendant’s action.  (Roy Allan Slurry
Seal, Inc. v. American Asphalt South, Inc. (2017) 2 Cal.5th 505, 512.)  
 
“The difference between
intentional interference and negligent interference with prospective economic
advantage relates to the defendant's intent.” 
(Redfearn v. Trader Joe's Co. (2018) 20 Cal.App.5th 989, 1006.)  Thus, the third element of a negligent
interference claim requires that the defendant was negligent, as opposed to any
intentionally wrongful acts.  (Venhaus
v. Shultz (2007) 155 Cal.App.4th 1072, 1078.)
 
Defendants argue Plaintiffs
fail to allege facts regarding the first, fourth, or fifth elements.  Plaintiffs allege:
 
20. Beginning on or about April 19th, 2022,
Bessemer solicited FLYNN as a client. As part of this process, BESSEMER gained
knowledge of FLYNN'S business background, and contracted work and consulting,
with financial entities and government agencies. BURSTIN (Managing Director and
Director of Client Advisory for Bessemer Trust of California), and DWYER
(Senior Vice President of Bessemer Trust of California), and KIM knew that any
conflict for FLYNN in her duty to report and/or duty to inform would result in a
substantial loss of work and put her company at risk and could have a devasting
impact on her livelihood. As a result of such issues arising and not being
corrected, FLYNN has suffered substantial losses to her livelihood.
 
32. On or about July 24th, 2022, in performing
her authorized diligence, FLYNN met with officials at Public Works -Building
& Safety in an attempt to locate property records. Officials and inspectors
informed FLYNN that BROIDA and her advisors needed to be informed that they
were in violation of countless CSD NORTH requirements that needed to be
addressed immediately. They also confirmed that the property does not have a
valid certificate of occupancy and is currently in violation of the implied warranty
of habitability. FLYNN reported this immediately to BROIDA, who told her to report
it to DWYER. FLYNN also reported this again to Mr. Glowacki, Mr. Burstin and
Ms. Kim. 
 
33. On July 29th, 2022 - FLYNN offered to send
this diligence report, and the cornering material facts and information
regarding the property, to DWYER to add to Mr. Broida’s estate records. DWYER
refused to physically accept FLYNN'S report and other findings to add to
records for Mr. Broida’s and retaliated with a verbal threat the he would stop
the purchase/sale. 
 
34. On September 20th, 2022 - FLYNN formally
reported her still unaddressed findings and concerns to Jeff Glowacki and then,
at Mr. Glowackis’s request, to BURSTIN. It was explained to FLYNN that BURSTIN
was responsible for the office’s supervisory obligations and for enforcing
policies and procedures. BURSTIN would conduct an internal investigation and
provide FLYNN with all required assurances in writing to address FLYNN’S
perceived conflicts of interest and to be able to determine how best to proceed
with any transaction related to the property. This investigation was to take no
more than 30 days. BURSTIN to date has never addressed these reported concerns.

 
35. Given BESSEMER’s knowledge of FLYNN'S
background, and contracted work for and consulting with financial entities and
government agencies, BURSTIN, and DWYER knew that this matter created a
conflict for plaintiff and that she my lose a substantial amount of work, and
it put her company at risk if the conflict wasn’t resolved. In response,
BURSTIN, as the Managing Director and Director of Client Advisory for BESSEMER,
threatened FLYNN by stating “Uh oh, I guess I better make the story I told to
the IRS true. Ha ha ha!” He also called FLYNN a “good girl,” and told her that
he knew and appreciated that she wouldn’t report this to anyone because it
would be bad for my friend Tara and probably worse for FLYNN. BURSTIN then
stated: “We are going to have to find another way to address this. Reporting
this to the assessor’s office or trying to correct our tax records will trigger
an audit for all of our clients." As a result of these issues not being
corrected, FLYNN has suffered a substantial loss to her livelihood. 
 
36. The discovered misdeeds of BESSEMER led to
further retaliation in the form of a Notice to Vacate on May 27, 2023, with a
threat to demolish the property, and with BURSTIN on one occasion threatening
FLYNN stating “If you care about your family’s safety you will leave the house”
and offering FLYNN a one time $60,000 payment to go away.
 
154. As set forth in paragraphs 20, and 32
through 36 of this complaint, BESSEMER, ETB, DWYER, KIM, BURSTIN and DOES 131
through 140, and each of them, knew of FLYNN’s business background and that
FLYNN’s business operations and relationships involved existing contracted work
and consulting with financial entities and government agencies. Said defendants
were also aware of her existing business and about its imminent sale for which
defendants Dwyer and BURSTIN expressed a desire to have BESSEMER become a part
of.
 
[…]
 
158. Flynn is informed and believes, and
thereupon alleges that BESSEMER, ETB, DWYER, KIM, BURSTIN and DOES 131 through
140 willfully and deliberately committed the wrongful acts alleged herein with
the intent to harm FLYNN financially to cause existing clients, prospective
clients, and others to sever their present and prospective business
relationships with FLYNN.
 
[…]
 
160. As a proximate result of such wrongful acts,
FLYNN has suffered injury and damage to her business and goodwill in an amount
to conform to proof at trial, but in no event less than the jurisdictional
minimum of this Court.
 
(FAC
¶¶ 20, 32-36, 154, 158, 160.)  Thus,
Plaintiffs adequately allege that (1) Flynn had economic relationships doing
contract and consulting work for financial entities and government agencies;
(2) Defendants knew about these relationships; (3) Defendants had Flynn move in
and perform due diligence for them on the subject property, knowing it had
numerous code violations and was legally uninhabitable; (4) Flynn’s involvement
with Defendants’ property did disrupt those relationships, (5) causing Flynn to
suffer “substantial losses to her livelihood[.]”
 
            Therefore, Plaintiffs have
adequately stated a cause of action for intentional and/or negligent
interference with prospective economic advantage.
 
                                                                 
v.           
Thirteenth
Cause of Action – Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress
 
“A cause of action for
intentional infliction of emotional distress exists when there is (1) extreme
and outrageous conduct by the defendant with the intention of causing, or
reckless disregard of the probability of causing, emotional distress; (2) the plaintiff's
suffering severe or extreme emotional distress; and (3) actual and proximate
causation of the emotional distress by the defendant's outrageous
conduct.”  (Hughes v. Pair (2009)
46 Cal.4th 1035, 1050 [cleaned up]; see also CACI 1600 (2023).)
 
Plaintiffs allege:
 
186. Defendants’ conduct mentioned above, as
alleged in this amended complaint, was extreme and outrageous, deliberate, and
willful and done in reckless disregard of causing Plaintiffs emotional
distress. 
 
187. As a proximate result of said Defendants’
conduct and the consequences proximately caused by it, as hereinabove alleged,
Plaintiffs suffered severe humiliation, mental anguish, and emotional and
physical distress, and has been injured in mind and body as set forth above to
Plaintiffs’ damage in an amount to be proven at the time of trial. 
 
188. As a further direct and proximate result of
this conduct, and the emotional distress suffered as a consequence, Plaintiffs
expect to incur additional expenses to Plaintiffs’ damage in an amount to be
proven at the time of trial.
 
(FAC ¶¶ 186-188.)
 
            Defendants
argue that Plaintiff’s inclusion of the term “extreme and outrageous” is too
conclusory to state a claim.
 
            The
Court disagrees.  Whether Defendants’
alleged conduct of knowingly leasing uninhabitable premises to Plaintiffs; knowingly
straining Flynn’s business relationships with financial institutions and
government entities by having Flynn conduct due diligence for the property on
behalf of Defendants and coercing Flynn not to report her findings; and retaliating
by threatening to evict Flynn are ultimately true or rise to the level of
“extreme and outrageous” conduct is a factual inquiry to be determined at later
stages of the litigation.  
 
            Therefore,
the Court overrules Defendants’ demurrer to the thirteenth cause of action.
 
2.     
LEAVE TO AMEND
 
A plaintiff has the burden of showing in what
manner the complaint could be amended and how the amendment would change the
legal effect of the complaint, i.e., state a cause of action. (See The
Inland Oversight Committee v City of San Bernardino (2018) 27 Cal.App.5th
771, 779; PGA West Residential Assn., Inc. v Hulven Int'l, Inc. (2017)
14 Cal.App.5th 156, 189.) A plaintiff must not only state the legal basis for
the amendment, but also the factual allegations sufficient to state a cause of
action or claim. (See PGA West Residential Assn., Inc. v Hulven Int'l, Inc.,
supra, 14 Cal.App.5th at p. 189.) Moreover, a plaintiff does not meet his
or her burden by merely stating in the opposition to a demurrer or motion to
strike that “if the Court finds the operative complaint deficient, plaintiff
respectfully requests leave to amend.” (See Major Clients Agency v Diemer
(1998) 67 Cal.App.4th 1116, 1133; Graham v Bank of America (2014) 226
Cal.App.4th 594, 618 [asserting an abstract right to amend does not satisfy the
burden].)
 
Here, Plaintiffs simply request leave to amend the complaint, but
do not provide any factual details they could add to cure the deficiencies
identified.  
 
However, because the deficiency in the third cause of action is
simply combining two causes of action into one, that defect can be remediated
by re-pleading the allegations as two separate causes of action.  Therefore, as to the third cause of action
only, the Court grants Plaintiffs leave to amend to allege separate causes of
action for trespass and nuisance.  
 
CONCLUSION AND ORDER
 
For the reasons stated, the Court sustains Defendants’ demurrer to the
third cause of action on the basis of uncertainty with leave to
amend.  
 
The Court sustains Defendant E&TB’s demurrer to the fifth cause of
action for failure to state a cause of action without leave to
amend.  The Court overrules the remaining
Defendants’ demurrers to the fifth cause of action in all other respects.  
 
The Court overrules Defendants’ demurrers to the eighth, ninth, tenth,
eleventh, and thirteenth causes of action in their entirety.
 
Plaintiffs shall file and serve a second amended complaint in
accordance with this order on or before February 20, 2024.  
 
Defendants shall provide notice of the Court’s ruling and file a proof
of service regarding the same.  
 
 
DATED:  February 6, 2024                                                    ___________________________
                                                                                          Michael
E. Whitaker
                                                                                          Judge
of the Superior Court


