  Case Number:  21STCV39105    Hearing Date:   February 6, 2024    Dept:  207 TENTATIVE
RULING 
 



DEPARTMENT


207




HEARING DATE


February
  6, 2024




CASE NUMBER


21STCV39105




MOTION


Motion
  to Compel Enforcement of Subpoenas




MOVING PARTY


Plaintiff
  Michael Landver




OPPOSING PARTIES


Defendant
  Matrix Clinical Research, Inc., et al.



 
BACKGROUND
 
Plaintiff Michael Landver (“Plaintiff”) initiated this action on
October 22, 2021, by bringing a Complaint in his individual capacity and
derivatively on behalf of nominal defendant, United Clinical Research, Inc.
(“United”). Plaintiff brings this action against Defendant Matrix Clinical
Research, Inc. (“Matrix”) and individual Defendants Faramarz Shamam, Peyman
Banooni, and Stan Gershovich (the “Individual Defendants”) (collectively,
“Defendants”). 
 
Plaintiff alleges Plaintiff and the Individual Defendants previously
formed United, a company that conducts clinical trials for drug development, in
which Plaintiff claims a 25% ownership interest. Plaintiff alleges the
Individual Defendants later stopped working with Plaintiff and formed their own
company, Defendant Matrix, to conduct such clinical trials. In so doing,
Plaintiff alleges the Individual Defendants misappropriated United’s business,
employees, revenue, contracts, and trade secrets which they used to start
Defendant Matrix so they would no longer have to share profits with Plaintiff.
 
Plaintiff moves to compel third party David Gadoshian, CPA
(“Gadoshian”) to comply with the subpoena served upon him, for a contempt order
against Gadoshian, and also for sanctions. 
Defendants oppose, and Plaintiff has replied.  Gadoshian has not opposed the motion.
 
Subsequent to the filing of the Motion, Gadoshian delivered the
requested documents to Plaintiff, as represented in the Opposition and Reply
briefs, as well as represented to the Court by the parties at a hearing on
February 1, 2024.  Thus, the only issue
remaining is sanctions.
 
ANALYSIS
 
“In California, discovery may
be obtained from a nonparty through an oral deposition, a written deposition,
or a deposition for the production of business records and things. (Code Civ.
Proc., § 2020.010, subd. (a).)” (Board of Registered Nursing v. Superior
Court of Orange County (2021) 59 Cal.App.5th 1011, 1030 (“Board of
Registered Nursing”).) “To pursue the deposition of a nonparty, a party must
generally serve a deposition subpoena.” (Ibid.).)
 
“‘A deposition subpoena that
commands only the production of business records for copying shall designate
the business records to be produced either by specifically describing each
individual item or by reasonably particularizing each category of item, and
shall specify the form in which any electronically stored information is to be
produced, if a particular form is desired.’ [Citation.]” (Board of
Registered Nursing, supra, 59 Cal.App.5th at p. 1030.)
 
“‘If a deponent fails to
answer any question or to produce any document, electronically stored
information, or tangible thing under the deponent’s control that is specified
in the deposition notice or a deposition subpoena, the party seeking discovery
may move the court for an order compelling that answer or production.’ (Code
Civ. Proc., § 2025.480, subd. (a).)” (Board of Registered Nursing, supra,
59 Cal.App.5th at p. 1031.) “‘[D]iscovery conducted by
way of a business records subpoena is a
“deposition.”’ [Citation.]” (Id. at pp. 1031-1032.) “If a subpoena
requires the attendance of a witness or the production of books, documents,
electronically stored information, or other things before a court, or at the
trial of an issue therein, or at the taking of a deposition, the court, upon
motion reasonably made by [a party or a witness] . . . may make an order . . .
directing compliance with it upon those terms or conditions as the court shall
declare, including protective orders.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 1987.1.)
 
            On
August 1, 2023, Plaintiff personally served Defendant Matrix’s accountant,
third party David Gadoshian, CPA with a deposition subpoena for Matrix’s
business records, with a production date of August 20, 2023.  (Baranov Decl. ¶ 8 and Ex. A.)  On August 7, 2023, Defendants filed a motion to
quash, which was noticed for hearing on September 13, 2023.  (Baranov Decl. ¶ 9 and Ex. B.)  Plaintiff opposed the motion to quash on August
30, 2023.  (Baranov Decl. ¶ 9 and Ex. C.)  After the opposition was filed, but prior to
the hearing, Defendants took the motion to quash off calendar.  (Baranov Decl. ¶ 9 and Ex. D.)
 
            On
September 11, 2023, counsel for Plaintiff contacted Gadoshian, advising him
that the motion to quash was taken off calendar, and therefore he must comply
with the subpoena and produce the requested documents.  (Baranov Dec. ¶ 10 and Ex. E.)  Gadoshian agreed to produce the documents by
September 18, 2023.  (Ibid.)  Gadoshian did not produce the documents by
September 18.
 
            On
September 19, 2023, counsel for Defendants sent a letter to Plaintiff’s counsel
and to Gadoshian, advising that Gadoshian did not need to comply with the
subpoena, and requesting Plaintiff’s counsel to “cease and desist” from contacting
Gadoshian.  (Baranov Decl. ¶ 11, Ex. F.)  On September 28, 2023, the parties had an
informal discovery conference, where the Court expressed disapproval of Defendants’
counsel’s conduct.  
 
            Plaintiff’s
counsel continued to contact Gadoshian regarding the outstanding business
records, to no avail.  (Baranov Decl. ¶ 12
and Exs. G-I.)  On November 16, 2023, the
parties had another IDC, where the Court granted Plaintiff permission to file
the instant motion to compel.
 
            On
December 6, 2023, Defendants moved for a protective order, which the Court
denied on January 3, 2024.  (See January
3, 2024 Minute Order.)  Plaintiff
represents that Gadoshian produced the documents on January 12, 2024.  (Reply at p. 2.)
 
            Defendants
oppose the motion and seek sanctions, arguing (1) Gadoshian has delivered all requested
documents; (2) Defendants did not agree to the production of their business
records; (3) there is no court order compelling Gadoshian’s response; and (4) Plaintiff
did not meet and confer with Defendants prior to filing this motion.
 
            As
to the first argument, the fact that Gadoshian has delivered the requested
documents moots the motion to compel, but not the request for sanctions.              
 
As to the remaining arguments,
the validly served subpoena required Gadoshian to either object or serve the
requested documents.  Gadoshian did not
object.  Defendants did file a motion to
quash, but once that was taken off calendar, Gadoshian was required to respond
on the agreed upon September 18, 2023 date. 
There is no requirement that Plaintiffs meet and confer with
Defendants prior to filing a motion to compel in connection with a third
party subpoena or that Defendants agree to the production.
 
            Plaintiff
seeks an order of contempt and monetary sanctions from Gadoshian in the amount
of $6,605, representing 11 hours of attorney time at an hourly rate of $595
plus the $60 filing fee.  (Baranov Decl.
¶ 14.)  Defendants seek monetary
sanctions from Plaintiff in the amount of $9,975.
 
            Because
Plaintiff’s motion is proper, procedurally and factually, the Cout denies
Defendants’ request for monetary sanctions.
 
            As
for Plaintiff’s requests, while the Court agrees that Gadoshian failed to
timely respond to the deposition subpoena, it does not find contempt
appropriate under the circumstances. 
Defendants’ counsel was apparently communicating with Gadoshian,
advising Gadoshian not to respond during the pendency of various motions,
including the motion to quash and the motion for protective order.  Moreover, Gadoshian is a third party, and this
is the first incident of Gadoshian’s failure to comply with discovery.
 
The Court does, however, agree
that monetary sanctions are warranted. 
(Code Civ. Proc. Section 1987.2.) 
 Therefore, the Court further
awards monetary sanctions against Gadoshian in the amount of $2,440,
representing 4 hours of attorney time to prepare the moving and reply papers at
the hourly rate of $595, plus the $60 filing fee.
 
 
CONCLUSION AND ORDER
 
Therefore, the Court denies, in part, as moot Plaintiff’s motion to
compel compliance with the deposition subpoena. 

 
Further, the Court orders Gadoshian
to pay monetary sanctions in the amount of $2,440 , to Plaintiff, by and
through Plaintiff’s counsel, within 30 days of notice of the Court’s order.
 
Plaintiff shall provide notice of the Court’s order and file a proof
of service of such. 
 
 
 
 
DATED:  February 6, 2024                                                    ___________________________
                                                                                          Michael
E. Whitaker
                                                                                          Judge
of the Superior Court
 