  Case Number:  21NWCV00400    Hearing Date:   January 26, 2024    Dept:  C The Windmill Co. Inc. vs Fayek Sedrak, et al.
Case No.: 21NWCV00400
Hearing Date: January 26, 2024 @ 9:30 a.m. 
#1
Tentative Ruling 
I.               
Defendant Fayez Sedrak’s Motion for
Summary Judgment is GRANTED. 
II.             
Defendant O&C Hillside Resources
Management Company’s Motion for Summary Judgment is DENIED. 
 
Background
On June 21, 2021, Plaintiff, The Windmill Co., Inc.,
(“Plaintiff”) filed an action against Defendants Fayez Sedrak (“Sedrak”) and
O&C Hillside Resources Management Co. (“O&C Hillside”), alleging Breach
of Contract, Breach of Implied Covenant of Good Faith and Fair Dealing, and
Declaratory Relief. In a First Amended Complaint filed on February 6, 2023
(“FAC”) Plaintiff alleged that on January 3, 2020, Plaintiff entered into a
Sale of Business agreement with O&C Hillside to purchase the business known
as ARCO AM PM 6545 located at 13550 Beach Blvd, La Mirada, CA, for
$1,590,000.00. The parties opened an Escrow at Ace Escrow where they each
signed mutual escrow instructions and Plaintiff deposited $30,000 into Escrow.
(Id., ¶¶ 8-9; Benge Decl., Exhibit 1.) Escrow was to close in 90 days. (Benge
Decl., Exhibit 2.)
The original escrow for the purchase of the Arco AM/PM was
signed on January 3, 2020. The original purchase price was $1,590,000.00.
(Benge Decl. ¶¶ 3-4; Exhibits 1-2.) However, during the first escrow period
several problems arose, including the necessity by Tesoro (the franchisor) to
elect not to exercise their right of first refusal, the Landlord’s
unwillingness to sign the assignment and assumption of ground lease, and
problems with a Hydrogen facility. (Sedrak Decl. ¶¶ 9, 14, 24; Benge Decl. ¶¶
10, 17.) During this period, Plaintiff obtained a loan approval note dated
October 1, 2020, for $1,110,000.00. (Mashney Decl., Exhibit 9.) 
For those reasons an amended escrow agreement was signed on
January 21, 2021.  Those instructions
stated that escrow was to close within ninety days. (Benge Decl., Exhibit 3.)
The amended agreement called for a promissory note for $150,000.00 with an
interest rate of 0% per annum for eight years. In addition, the Escrow
Amendment changed the purchase price to $1,940,000.00. (Benge Decl., Exhibit
3.)
During this time, Plaintiff did not deposit funds into
escrow as required by the amended escrow agreement or obtain a loan. However,
on March 22, 2021, Defendant Sedrak emailed an Ace Escrow account for an agent
named “Debbie” to cancel escrow. (Mashney Decl., Ex. 16.) This cancellation
occurred 30 days prior to the close of 90 day window. 
On May 25, 2021, Plaintiff sent a demand for specific
performance as to all Defendants, which went unanswered. (Mashney Decl.,
Exhibit 17.)
On June 21, 2021, Plaintiff, the Windmill Co., Inc., filed
an action against Fayez Sedrak and O&C Hillside Resources Management Co.,
alleging Breach of Contract, Breach of Implied Covenant of Good Faith and Fair
Dealing, and Declaratory Relief. (See Complaint.) 
On August 1, 2021, Defendants emailed a Notice of Default
and Second Demand and Notice to Perform Escrow, which gave only five days to
deposit the funds. (Mashney Decl., Exhibit 18.) 
On August 4, 2021, Plaintiff sent the second demand for
specific performance. (Mashney Decl., Exhibit 20.)
On October 7, 2021, Plaintiff obtained a second loan
approval note for $1,940,000.00. (Mashney Decl., Exhibit 21.) Plaintiff claims
that Defendant O&C Hillside did not sign a 4506T form that Defendant claims
is necessary for the loan to be processed. 
Legal Standard 
Summary
judgment is proper “if all the papers submitted show that there is no triable
issue as to any material fact and that the moving party is entitled to judgment
as a matter of law.”  (Code Civ. Proc. §437c(c).)  Where a defendant
seeks summary judgment or adjudication, he must show that either “one or more
elements of the cause of action, even if not separately pleaded, cannot be
established, or that there is a complete defense to that cause of
action.”  (Id. at §437c(o)(2).)  A defendant may satisfy this burden
by showing that the claim “cannot be established” because of the lack of
evidence on some essential element of the claim.  (Union Bank v.
Superior Court (1995) 31 Cal.App.4th 574, 590.)  Once the defendant
meets this burden, the burden shifts to the plaintiff to show that a “triable
issue of one or more material facts exists as to that cause of action or
defense thereto.”  (Id.)   
 
The
moving party bears the initial burden of production to make a prima facie
showing that there are no triable issues of material fact.  (Aguilar v.
Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 850.)  A defendant
moving for summary judgment must show either (1) that one or more elements of
the cause of action cannot be established or (2) that there is a complete
defense to that cause of action.  (Code Civ. Proc. §437c(p).)  A
defendant may discharge this burden by furnishing either (1) affirmative
evidence of the required facts or (2) discovery responses conceding that the
plaintiff lacks evidence to establish an essential element of the plaintiff's
case. If a defendant chooses the latter option, he or she must present evidence
“and not simply point out that plaintiff does not possess and cannot reasonably
obtain needed evidence….” (Aguilar, supra, 25 Cal.4th at
865-66.)
 
[A]
defendant may simply show the plaintiff cannot establish an essential element
of the cause of action “by showing that the plaintiff does not possess, and
cannot reasonably obtain, needed evidence.” (Id. at p. 854.)  Thus, rather
than affirmatively disproving or negating an element (e.g., causation), a
defendant moving for summary judgment has the option of presenting evidence
reflecting the plaintiff does not possess evidence to prove that element. “The
defendant may, but need not, present evidence that conclusively negates an element
of the plaintiff's cause of action. The defendant may also present evidence
that the plaintiff does not possess, and cannot reasonably obtain, needed
evidence—as through admissions by the plaintiff following extensive discovery
to the effect that he has discovered nothing” to support an essential element
of his case. (Aguilar, supra, at p. 855.) Under the latter approach, a
defendant's initial evidentiary showing may “consist of the deposition
testimony of the plaintiff's witnesses, the plaintiff's factually devoid
discovery responses, or admissions by the plaintiff in deposition or in
response to requests for admission that he or she has not discovered anything
that supports an essential element of the cause of action.” (Lona v. Citibank,
N.A., supra, 202 Cal.App.4th at p. 110.)  In other words, a defendant may
show the plaintiff does not possess evidence to support an element of the cause
of action by means of presenting the plaintiff's factually devoid discovery
responses from which an absence of evidence may be reasonably inferred.
(Scheiding v. Dinwiddie Construction Co. (1999) 69 Cal.App.4th 64, 83.) 
 
Thus,
a moving defendant has two means by which to shift the burden of proof under
the summary judgment statute: “The defendant may rely upon factually
insufficient discovery responses by the plaintiff to show that the plaintiff
cannot establish an essential element of the cause of action sued upon.
[Citation.] [Or alternatively, the defendant may utilize the tried and true
technique of negating (‘disproving’) an essential element of the plaintiff's
cause of action.”
(Leyva
v. Garcia (2018) 20 Cal.App.5th 1095, 1103.) 
 
Until
the moving defendant has discharged its burden of proof, the opposing plaintiff
has no burden to come forward with any evidence. Once the moving defendant has
discharged its burden as to a particular cause of action, however, the
plaintiff may defeat the motion by producing evidence showing that a triable
issue of one or more material facts exists as to that cause of action. 
(Code Civ. Proc. §437c(p)(2).)  On a motion for summary judgment, the
moving party's supporting documents are strictly construed and those of his
opponent liberally construed, and doubts as to the propriety of summary
judgment should be resolved against granting the motion.  (D’Amico v.
Board of Medical Examiners (1974) 11 Cal.3d 1, 21.) 
 
Discussion 
A.    Defendant
Fayek Sedrak’s Motion for Summary Judgment
Defendant Sedrak maintains that he was not a party to the
escrow agreement, but rather signed the contract in his capacity as a corporate
principal. 
The fact that an individual is a corporate principal,
agent, or officer of the company does not make the corporate officer-principal
a party to the corporation’s contacts.(Bensara v. Marciano, (2001) 92
Cal. App. 4th 987, 990 (holding that plaintiff was not a party to agreements
because “he unambiguously signed both as a corporate officer and only as a
corporate officer, not in his individual capacity.”) It is an elementary
principle of contract law that a person must be a party to a contract to be
liable under the contract. (Gruenberg v. Aetna Ins. Co., (1973) 9 Cal.3d
566, 576 (non-insurer defendants were not parties to the insurance agreements
and therefore were not subject to a duty of good faith and fair dealing); Tuchscher
Development Enterprises, Inc. v. San Diego Unified Port Dist., (2003) 106
Cal.App.4th 1219, 1243 (nonparty to exclusive negotiating agreement not under
contractual duty to refrain from negotiating.) Defendant argues that Plaintiff
has no basis to claim that Mr. Sedrak is responsible for a breach of contract
to which he is not a party. The Court notes, that Defendant Sedrak is not an
individual signee to the contract. Further, Defendant Sedrak also contends that
he is not the alter ego of O&C Resources Management Company. 
The alter ego doctrine does not guard every unsatisfied
creditor of a corporation but instead affords protection where some conduct
amounting to bad faith makes it inequitable for the corporate owner to hide
behind the corporate form. Difficulty in enforcing a judgment or collecting a
debt does not satisfy this standard. (Sonora Diamond Corp. v. Superior Court,
(2000) 83 Cal. App. 4th 523, 539.)
Defendant Sedrak argues that Plaintiff has not made any
showing the Defendant Sedrak abused the corporation’s privileges, committed any
fraud, or engaged in bad faith. 
Defendant Sedrak has made a showing that as a non-party to
the contract, he cannot be held liable. 
Accordingly, the burden shifts to Plaintiff to make an affirmative
showing that Defendant Sedrak was a party to the contract. 
The conditions under which a corporate entity may be
disregarded, or the corporation be regarded as the alter ego of the
stockholders, necessarily vary according to the circumstances in each case since
the doctrine is essentially an equitable one and for that reason is
particularly within the province of the trial court. Only general rules may be
laid down for guidance. The two requirements are (1) that there be such unity
of interest and ownership that the separate personalities of the corporation
and the individual no longer exist, and (2) that, if the acts are treated as
those of the corporation alone, an inequitable result will follow. With respect
to the second requirement, it is sufficient that it appear that recognition of
the acts as those of a corporation only will produce inequitable results. (Associated
Vendors, Inc. v. Oakland Meat Co. (1962) 210 Cal.App.2d 825, 827.)
In Opposition, Plaintiff presents the following evidence
for the alter ego theory:
·       Defendant
Sedrak testified during his deposition that basically he is “everything”
(meaning he was the President, the treasurer, and the secretary) at O&C
Hillside Resource Management Company (“O&C”), and he has been holding such
titles since 2008. (Mashney Decl., Exhibit 29 – Deposition Transcript of Fayez
Sedrak, pg. 17, lines 12-17) 
·       Defendant
Sedrak testified during his deposition that as the one who holds all such
titles, he is basically knowledgeable and responsible for all of the major
decisions and transactions that pertain to O&C. (Mashney Decl., Exhibit 29
– Deposition Transcript of Fayez Sedrak, pg. 17, lines 18-22) 
·       Defendant
Sedrak testified during his deposition that “I am the organization.” (Mashney
Decl., Exhibit 29 – Deposition Transcript of Fayez Sedrak, pg. 63, line 25) 
·       Defendant
Sedrak appeared as the PMK (Person Most knowledgeable) of O&C. 
·       Defendant
Sedrak and O&C retained the same counsel, Wendy Benge, at the beginning of
this lawsuit. 
·       Defendant
Sedrak is the sole entity that communicated with TESORO. According to Mashney
Decl., Exhibit 3 – Notice of Insufficient Documentation, dated 03/26/2020,
Tesoro Refining & Marketing Company, LLC (“TESORO”) sent email to
fsedrak@sbcglobal.net. Furthermore, according to the Notice of Denial of
Consent” dated 12/23/2020, TESORO also communicated with DSEDRAK.
·       Defendant
Sedrak emailed Ace Escrow on 03/04/2021 to cancel escrow. (Mashney Decl.,
Exhibit 16)
The facts of this case are analogous to Lopez v
Escamilla, (2022) 79 Cal. App. 5th 646. In Lopez, Defendant admitted
that he was his company’ initial director, president, secretary, and treasurer.
The company had only one board meeting. Only he signed the company's checks. He
was the only shareholder, officer, and board member. (Id. at 651.) The Court agreed with Plaintiff’s arguments that “the
corporation and its sole owner had the same interests because the owner was the
corporation. Because he was the corporation, only he controlled the company,
all its decisions, the litigation, and the decision to default. (Id. at
648.) However, in Lopez, the court found that plaintiff made an
affirmative showing that defendant not only controlled the corporation but
comingled his own funds with the corporation’s and engaged in fraudulent and
inequitable conduct. 
Here, Plaintiff does not provide evidence of any fraudulent
behavior or comingling of funds. Therefore, the Court need not assess the
piercing of the corporate vail argument. 
Since Plaintiff cannot provide proof of its alter ego
theory or that Defendant Sedrak, by signing the contract, was acting as
anything other than O&C Hillside’s corporate officer, Defendant Sedrak’s
Motion for Summary Judgement is GRANTED. 
 
B.    Defendant
O&C Hillside Resources Management Company 

Defendant O&C Hillside’s Motion for Summary Judgment is
based on Plaintiff’s Material failure to perform the Amended Escrow Agreement
of January 21, 2021. Defendant argues that the 90-day closing date of April 21,
2021 closed without performance and that Plaintiff failed to perform at any
time following O&C Hillside’s August 1, 2021, demand for performance. Defendant
O&C Hillside also argues that Plaintiff never had a loan commitment to fund
the Escrow, and was never ready, willing, or able to close escrow.  
 
a.    First Cause
of Action for Breach of Contract 
“The
standard elements of a claim for breach of contract are: ‘(1) the contract, (2)
plaintiff’s performance or excuse for nonperformance, (3) defendant’s breach,
and (4) damage to plaintiff therefrom.’” (Wall Street Network, Ltd. v. New
York Times Co. (2008) 164 Cal.App.4th 1171, 1178.) The plaintiff must
attach the contract at issue to the complaint or plead the material terms to
assert a breach of contract claim. (Construction Protective Servs., Inc. v.
TIG Specialty Ins. Co. (2002) 29 Cal.4th 189, 198–99; San Diego Housing
Comm’n v. Indust. Indem. Co. (1998) 68 Cal.App.4th 526, 536.) 
Here, there
was a contract that laid out how the parties were to perform, what the breach
would be and the damages. However, Defendant O&C Hillside argues that the
contract fails, because the material terms of the contract were unspecified. 
To establish that a contract exists (the first element), the plaintiff must
prove that there has been a “meeting of the [parties'] minds on all material points.” (Banner Entertainment,
Inc. v. Superior Court (1998) 62 Cal.App.4th 348, 359; Cheema v. L.S.
Trucking, Inc. (2019) 39 Cal.App.5th 1142, 1149.) Whether the parties'
minds have met is judged “objective[ly]”
by looking to “the outward manifestations or expressions of the parties, ...
and not their unexpressed intentions or understandings.” (Alexander v.
Codemasters Group Limited (2002) 104 Cal.App.4th 129, 141 (Alexander),
disapproved on another ground in Reid v. Google (2010) 50 Cal.4th 512 (Reid);
Bustamante v. Intuit, Inc. (2006) 141 Cal.App.4th 199, 208 (Bustamante).)
A particular term of a contract is “material”
or “essential” if it is necessary (1) in order to “provide a basis for
determining the existence of a breach” of that contract,
and (2) “for giving an appropriate remedy.” (Bustamante, at p. 209; Alexander,
at p. 141.) 


Defendant O&C Hillside contends the January 21, 2021,
Amendment (Exhibit “3”) was an agreement to agree on collateral for the
Security Agreement and to fill in the blanks of Escrow’s “usual form.” There
was no agreement on material terms following the January 21, 2021, Amendment.
There was no “usual form” presented to the parties and no such form was ever
agreed upon. So-called “usual forms” have blanks where the material terms are
to be filled in. There is a total failure to specify (1) the creditor’s rights
in the collateral; (2) what would constitute a default; (3) what remedies could
be exercised upon default, (4) whether after acquired property was permitted or
affected. Instead, these material terms were left to future agreement in
filling out the “usual form.”
Defendant O&C Hillside further contends that that
Plaintiff did not perform the terms of the contract as Plaintiff did not
deposit the funds into escrow by the April 21, 2021 deadline. 
The material factors to be ascertained from a contract for
the sale of real property are the seller, buyer, the price to be paid, the time
and manner of payment, and the property to be transferred, describing it so it
may be identified; and that where these matters are sufficiently definite the
contract may be specifically enforced. (Magna Development Co. v. Reed
(1964) 228 Cal.App.2d 230, 231.) The modern trend of law is to favor the
enforcement of contracts, to lean against their unenforceability because of
uncertainty, and to carry out the intentions of the parties if this can
feasibly be done. Id. at 235.
Uniform Commercial Code Comment 3 to U.C.C. 9108 notes that
"[m]uch litigation has arisen over whether a description in a security
agreement is sufficient to include after-acquired collateral if the agreement
does not explicitly so provide. This question is one of contract interpretation
and is not susceptible to a statutory rule." Accordingly, U.C.C. 9108
contains no reference to descriptions of after-acquired collateral. (4 B.
Witkin, Summary of California Law, Secured Transactions in Personal Property § 46
(11th ed. 2022).)
Here, the Amended Escrow Instructions signed by the parties
on January 21, 2021 was an enforceable contract. (See Mashney Decl., Exhibit
14.) The Court notes that the First Amended Instructions specifically refer to
the original Escrow Instructions signed by parties on January 3, 2020. (Mashney
Decl., Exhibit 1.) The amended instructions specifically state that the
previous instructions are being “modified” – supplemented to reflect the new
purchase price, new loan amount and the new balance of funds to be deposited
into escrow. Furthermore, the last paragraph of the Amended Escrow Instructions
specifically state that all other terms and conditions of the escrow will
remain the same.
Furthermore, the Court finds that the material terms are
present – seller is identified as O&C Hillside; buyer is identified as
Plaintiff; price to be paid is stated as $1,940,000.00; time and manner of
payment is stated – “ESCROW SUMMARY” specifically states, “Buyer has deposited
with escrow $30,000.00.” “ Buyer will deposit prior to close of escrow
$670,000.00.” “Buyer to obtain a new business loan in the amount of
$1,090,000.00.” “Owner’s carry loan in the amount of $150,000.00.” “TOTAL
CONSIDERATION: $1,940,000.00.” Moreover, the property to be transferred is
stated as “ARCO AM PM 6545 13550 Beach Blvd., La Mirada, CA 90638.”
As for the “NEW FINANCING BY SELLER”, the Amended Escrow
Instructions specifically states that the note, security agreement, and
financing statements are to be prepared by Escrow Holder on “your standard
form,” for signature of the parties bearing the terms specified as follows:
Promissory note in the amount of $150,000.00 executed by Buyer in favor of
Seller. Payment terms are to be 8 years with balloon payment with interest from
TBD (date of escrow closing) at the rate of 0 (ZERO)% per annum. Further, the
Amended Instructions specifically states that Escrow Holder is authorized to
insert interest commencement date, payment dates (which are linked to the
interest commencement date), as required at closing, over signature of the
parties, without further instructions from them. 
Accordingly, the Court finds that the material terms of the
contract were present. 
Defendant O&C Hillside argues that Plaintiff never
deposited the requisite funds into escrow nor obtained the loan, as required by
the contract by the date escrow was to close. The Court determines that O&C
Hillside has satisfied its initial burden of demonstrating a prima facie
case.  The Court now turns to whether Plaintiff
performed or was excused from performing the condition precedent. 
When the contract contains an express condition precedent,
a party alleging breach of contract bears the burden of proving that it
performed or was excused from performing the condition precedent. (Code of
Civil Procedure § 457.)  Plaintiff argues
that it performed its end of the bargain by: (1) attending all training and
interviews required by TESORO, (2) paying all required fees to TESORO, (3) obtaining
loan approval, and (4) having sufficient cash at hand to close escrow.
Plaintiff, by its own admission, states that it did not
have the loan amount for the amended purchase price of $1,940,000.00 until
October 7, 2021. (Opp., p. 12.) This date is certainly past the ninety-day
threshold of the amended agreement and the five-day threshold of the August 1,
2021 letter. Even considering the accounts Plaintiff cites as exhibits,
Plaintiff would not have had the funds to pay the purchase price in full with only
$1,348,337.71 on hand. (Mashney Decl., Exhibits 23-27.) 
However, Plaintiff does make a showing that 30 days prior
to the end of the 90 day escrow period closing, Defendant Sedrak emailed Ace
Escrow to cancel the escrow. (Mashney Decl., Ex. 16.) The Court is persuaded
that there is a triable issue of fact of whether this canceled escrow prevented
Plaintiff from satisfying its obligations. 
Further any escrow must remain open until ABC approves the
qualifications of the applicant and premises. The escrow holder shall not
release any funds in the escrow in exchange for a promissory note or in
exchange for any other consideration of less value to the creditors than the
funds exchanged. (Section 24074.2 B&P Code.) Plaintiff offers evidence that
it attempted to have Michael Geyer —O&C Hillside ABC’s license holder— sign
and return the license transfer. (Mashney Decl., Ex 6.) However, Defendant
O&C Hillside never responded to this email. Accordingly, there is a triable
issue of fact as to whether escrow would have been able to close due to the
lack of a transferred ABC license. 
Finally, Defendant argues that the January 21, 2021 Amended
Escrow Agreement waived all prior claims between the parties.  In support of this argument, Defendant relies
upon Oakland Raiders v. Oakland-Alameda County Coliseum, Inc. (2006) 144
Cal.App.4th 1175.  There, Plaintiff
Oakland Raiders entered into a series of agreements with Defendant
Oakland-Alameda County Coliseum, Inc. to finance and construct a stadium in the
City of Oakland.  The Oakland Raiders sued
for alleged misrepresentation of season ticket sales which it claimed induced
the team to leave Los Angeles and enter into agreements with Defendant.  The appellate court concluded that the Oakland
Raiders waived its claim of fraudulent inducement, which occurred before the first
agreements were reached, by entering into a supplemental agreement with
Defendant.  
In contrast to the fraud alleged in Oakland Raiders,
Plaintiff Windmill alleges a series of delays that continued beyond the signing
of the Amended Escrow Agreement.  “Waiver
is the intentional relinquishment of a known right after full knowledge of the
facts … Thus, [t]he pivotal issue in a claim of waiver is the intention of the
party who allegedly relinquished the known legal right.” (Id. at
1189-90.)  Understood in this way, it can
hardly be said that by signing the Amended Escrow Agreement, Plaintiff intentionally
relinquished its right to sue over future delays caused by Defendant.  Under these circumstances, the Court
determines that the doctrine of waiver is inapplicable.
Accordingly, Defendant O&C Hillside’s Motion for Summary
Judgment is DENIED. 
 
b.    Second
Cause of Action: Violation of Good Faith Covenant 
The Court now turns its
attention to the second cause of action for violation of the good faith
covenant. 
Defendant O&C Hillside
argues that there is no independent claim for Breach of Covenant of Good Faith
and there is no claim for interfering with a contract to which a party is a
signatory. Defendant argues that Plaintiff’s claims predate the January 21,
2021, Amendment. 
Plaintiff argues that Defendant O&C Hillside interfered
with the contract by not signing the requisite forms necessary to close escrow.

There is no independent claim for the violation of the
covenant of good faith and fair dealing, and the claim is nothing more than a
breach of contract. (Guz v. Bechtel Nat. Inc., (2000) 24 Cal. 4th 317,
351; Careau & Co. v. Security Pacific Business Credit, Inc., (1990)
222 Cal. App. 3d 1371, 1393.)
Here, the Court has resolved the breach of contract cause
of action.  As there is no independent
claim for violation of the covenant of good faith and fair dealing, this claim
must also present a triable issue of fact. 

Accordingly, Defendant’s Motion for Summary Adjudication as
to the Second Cause of Action is DENIED.
 
c.     Third
Cause of Action for Declaratory Relief 
“Any
person interested under a written instrument, excluding a will or a trust, or
under a contract, or who desires a declaration of his or her rights or duties
with respect to another, or in respect to, in, over or upon property, or with
respect to the location of the natural channel of a watercourse, may, in cases
of actual controversy relating to the legal rights and duties of the respective
parties, bring an original action or cross-complaint in the superior court for
a declaration of his or her rights and duties in the premises, including a
determination of any question of construction or validity arising under the
instrument or contract. He or she may ask for a declaration of rights or
duties, either alone or with other relief; and the court may make a binding
declaration of these rights or duties, whether or not further relief is or
could be claimed at the time. The declaration may be either affirmative or
negative in form and effect, and the declaration shall have the force of a
final judgment. The declaration may be had before there has been any breach of
the obligation in respect to which said declaration is sought.” (CCP § 1060.) 
 
“The
remedies provided by this chapter are cumulative, and shall not be construed as
restricting any remedy, provisional or otherwise, provided by law for the
benefit of any party to such action, and no judgment under this chapter shall
preclude any party from obtaining additional relief based upon the same facts.”
(CCP § 1062.) 
 
Defendant O&C Hillside argues that declaratory relief cause
of action relies on the same facts as the breach of contract cause of action.  However, under CCP § 1062, declaratory relief may still be granted. 
The Court has found that there is a triable issue of fact
with respect to the breach of contract cause of action. If, after a trial, the
court decides to uphold the agreement and order specific performance, there
will still be a future relationship between the parties. Since an actual
controversy has been established, declaratory relief is required to preserve
the rights and obligations of both parties.
Accordingly, Defendant’s Motion for Summary Adjudication as
to the Third Cause of Action is DENIED. 
 
C.   Evidentiary
Objections
 
a.    Defendants’
Objection to the Haves Affidavit is OVERRULED. 
b.    Defendants’
Objection to Mashney Affidavit is OVERRULED.
c.     Defendants’
Objection to Youssef Affidavit is OVERRULED.