 Case Number:  22STCV25187    Hearing Date:   October 12, 2023    Dept:  49 Nala Mena, a minor, by and through her Guardian ad Litem, Vanessa Samuels, v. Los Angeles Unified School DistrictMOTION TO COMPEL PLAINTIFF’S DEPOSITION MOVING PARTY: Defendant Los Angeles Unified School DistrictRESPONDING PARTY(S): Plaintiff Nala Mena, a minor, by and through her Guardian ad Litem, Vanessa SamuelsSTATEMENT OF MATERIAL FACTS AND/OR PROCEEDINGS: Plaintiff Nala Mena, a minor, by and through her Guardian ad Litem, Vanessa Samuels, brings this action against Defendant Los Angeles Unified School District for (1) negligence and (2) negligent hiring, training, and supervision. Plaintiff alleges while attending kindergarten at Fullbright Avenue Elementary school, she was the victim of physical and mental bullying.Defendant now moves for an order compelling Plaintiff’s deposition.  Plaintiff opposed.TENTATIVE RULING:Defendant’s Motion to Compel Plaintiff’s Deposition is GRANTED, under the terms discussed herein.The current trial dates are to be advanced and vacated.  A Trial Setting Conference is set for June 3, 2024, at 8:30 a.m.   It is the court’s intention to set a trial date within a reasonable time thereafter.   All cutoff dates shall be extended per the new trial date.Moving party to give notice, unless waived.  DISCUSSION:Motion to Compel Plaintiff’s Deposition1. Legal Standard Where, as here, a party deponent has not appeared for his or her deposition, CCP § 2025.450 applies:(a) If, after service of a deposition notice, a party to the action or an officer, director, managing agent, or employee of a party, or a person designated by an organization that is a party under Section 2025.230, without having served a valid objection under Section 2025.410, fails to appear for examination, or to proceed with it, or to produce for inspection any document, electronically stored information, or tangible thing described in the deposition notice, the party giving the notice may move for an order compelling the deponent’s attendance and testimony, and the production for inspection of any document, electronically stored information, or tangible thing described in the deposition notice.(b) A motion under subdivision (a) shall comply with both of the following:(1) The motion shall set forth specific facts showing good cause justifying the production for inspection of any document, electronically stored information, or tangible thing described in the deposition notice.(2) The motion shall be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration under Section 2016.040, or, when the deponent fails to attend the deposition and produce the documents, electronically stored information, or things described in the deposition notice, by a declaration stating that the petitioner has contacted the deponent to inquire about the nonappearance.(CCP § 2025.450(a),(b) [emphasis added].)2. AnalysisDefendant LAUSD moves to compel Plaintiff, a seven-year-old minor, to appear at her noticed deposition. Defendant also seeks sanctions against Plaintiff and her counsel for Plaintiff’s failure to appear.The District noticed Plaintiff’s deposition for June 22, 2022. (Burnet Decl., Ex. B). Plaintiff served objections to the deposition notice, and Plaintiff’s counsel advised that he would not produce Plaintiff for deposition. (Burnet Decl., Exs. D and E.) The District served a notice rescheduling the deposition to take place remotely, as a concession. (Burnet Decl., ¶ 7, Ex. F, at p. 2, and Ex. G.) On June 22, 2023, Plaintiff did not appear at the deposition, and the District prepared an Affidavit of Non-Appearance. (Burnet Decl., Ex. J.)Of particular relevance to this motion is Plaintiff’s allegation that she “was assaulted battered and sexually molested by having another minor boy touch her vaginal area multiple times while defendants, through FULLBRIGHT agents and employees, lost track of their whereabouts, did not find them for about one hour, and failed to take reasonably necessary steps to locate Plaintiff and provide for her protection and safety. (Compl. ¶ 45.) Defendant argues that “[b]ecause [Plaintiff’s] Guardian ad Litem, Vanessa Samuels, was not present at the time of the subject incident, the only person who can provide first-hand information about what allegedly occurred while the two children were hiding in the cabinet, is Plaintiff.” (Mtn. 8: 16-20.) Plaintiff opposes the deposition, at least at this time. Plaintiff submits a declaration from Dr. Lynn E. Ponton, M.D., who examined Plaintiff by Zoom video conference on March 31, 2022. (See Ponton Decl.) Based on her interview with Plaintiff, Dr. Ponton opines that a deposition would “aggravate the trauma [Plaintiff] has experienced.” (Id. ¶ 4.) She states that a child such as Plaintiff who “is symptomatic with PTSD” should “not be confronted in an adversarial setting such as a deposition.” (Id. ¶ 6.) In her professional opinion, “to take the deposition of this child at this juncture…would be to risk irreparable damage to this child.” (Id. p. 8.) She also emphasizes that Defendant’s expert has not personally examined the patient. (Id. ¶ 7.)Defendant, on the other hand, has provided a Declaration from Christopher Thompson, M.D. (See Thompson Decl.) Dr. Thompson has not personally examined Plaintiff, but “reviewed the Complaint in this matter as well as Plaintiff’s records, including, but not limited to, those from Eisner Pediatric and Family Medical Center, which span from March 29, 2022 to June 27, 2023.” (Thompson Decl. ¶ 13.) Based on his review, he disagrees with Dr. Ponton’s opinion that deposing Plaintiff Nalah Mena at this point “would be to risk irreparable harm.” (Id. ¶ 15.) Rather, he suggests that “conducting a deposition of Nalah Mena,” under certain conditions, “would pose a relatively low risk to Nalah’s mental health.” (Id. ¶ 15.) He notes that Dr. Ponton’s initial evaluation of Nalah occurred on March 31, 2022—approximately 19 months ago. (Id. ¶ 16.) He contends the records suggest “Nalah has overall been improving and has been doing relatively well from a trauma symptom-related standpoint” since then. (Id.) It is therefore his “professional opinion that there is not a compelling basis from a psychiatric standpoint why Plaintiff should not be able to undergo a deposition in this matter, as long as the questioning is framed in a manner geared to a young child, and the length of the deposition is reasonable for a child of that age.” (Id. ¶ 17.)Here, the court is sensitive to the nature of the allegations, which involve sexual touching against a minor child. This court is also particularly cognizant of Plaintiff’s ongoing trauma from this event. The court must also, however, duly consider Defendant’s right to gather information from perhaps the only party with direct knowledge of what occurred—that being Plaintiff. By this ruling, this court attempts to balance these competing considerations.Plaintiff apparently discontinued therapy in June 2023. (Thompson Decl. Ex. L, p. 5; Ponton Decl. ¶ 5.) Plaintiff is not against sitting for her deposition entirely but seeks to delay the deposition so that she can undergo further therapy beforehand. It is unclear when (or if) Plaintiff will reenter therapy.Therefore, it is this court’s intention to tentatively order a date for Plaintiff’s deposition to occur in April or May of 2024—approximately six months from the date of this Ruling. Doing so will permit Plaintiff to reenter and undergo further therapy until then, with a particular focus on issues that may arise at her deposition. A delay of this length is highly unlikely to result in a lapse of memory of the events that occurred during the subject incident. This will necessitate a continuance of the presently set February 1, 2024, trial date to a time after the deposition. Plaintiff filed her Complaint on August 4, 2022. Because this action has been pending for just over a year, a relatively-brief trial continuance will not unduly prejudice either party. Accordingly, on good cause shown, Defendant’s Motion to Compel the Deposition of Plaintiff is GRANTED under the terms discussed herein.3. SanctionsCode of Civil Procedure section 2025.450 (g)(1), provides that, “[i]f a motion under subdivision (a) is granted, the court shall impose a monetary sanction . . . in favor of the party who noticed the deposition and against the deponent or the party with whom the deponent is affiliated, unless the court finds that the one subject to sanction acted with substantial justification or that other circumstances make the imposition of sanction unjust.” The court declines to award sanctions, finding that each party acted with substantial justification or that other circumstances make the imposition of sanction unjust. Moving party to give notice, unless waived.  IT IS SO ORDERED.Dated:   October 12, 2023 ___________________________________ Randolph M. Hammock Judge of the Superior Court Any party may submit on the tentative ruling by contacting the courtroom via email at Smcdept49@lacourt.org by no later than 4:00 p.m. the day before the hearing.  All interested parties must be copied on the email.  It should be noted that if you submit on a tentative ruling the court will still conduct a hearing if any party appears. By submitting on the tentative you have, in essence, waived your right to be present at the hearing, and you should be aware that the court may not adopt the tentative, and may issue an order which modifies the tentative ruling in whole or in part.