 Case Number:  21STCV33828    Hearing Date:   October 12, 2023    Dept:  49 Charlotte Parker, Individually and as Successor-in-Interest to John Doe P.C., deceased, v. Young Men’s Christian Association of Metropolitan Los Angeles  DEFENDANT’S DEMURRER TO PLAINTIFF’S SECOND AMENDED COMPLAINT MOVING PARTY: Defendant Young Men’s Christian Association of Metropolitan Los AngelesRESPONDING PARTY(S): Plaintiff Charlotte Parker, Individually and as Successor-in-Interest to John Doe P.C., deceasedSTATEMENT OF MATERIAL FACTS AND/OR PROCEEDINGS: Plaintiff Charlotte Parker brings this action individually and as Successor-in-Interest to her deceased son, John Doe P.C. Plaintiff alleges in approximately 1985 or 1986, John Doe P.C. was sexually assaulted during a camping trip by Doe Defendants 2 and 3, alleged to be employees, agents, or representatives of Defendant Young Men’s Christian Association of Metropolitan Los Angeles (“YMCA”). Plaintiff alleges the sexual assault affected her son as a child and throughout his entire life, ultimately leading to his passing on December 30, 2022. Plaintiff brings causes of action against Defendants for (1) childhood sexual assault, (2) sexual battery, (3) IIED, (4) negligence, (5) negligent retention/supervision/failure to warn, and (6) survival action under CCP § 377.30 et seq.Defendant YMCA now demurrers to the First, Second, and Third Causes of Action in the Second Amended Complaint. Plaintiff opposed.TENTATIVE RULING:Defendant’s Demurrer to the Second Amended Complaint is OVERRULED.Defendant is ordered to File an Answer to the SAC within 21 days of this Ruling.Plaintiff is ordered to give notice, unless waived.DISCUSSION: DemurrerI. Meet and Confer The Declaration of Attorney Joseph W. Cheung, Counsel for Defendant, reflects that the meet and confer requirement was satisfied. (CCP § 430.41.) II. Legal StandardA demurrer for sufficiency tests whether the complaint states a cause of action.  (Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147 Cal. App. 4th 740, 747.)  When considering demurrers, courts read the allegations liberally and in context.  (Taylor v. City of Los Angeles Dept. of Water and Power (2006) 144 Cal. App. 4th 1216, 1228.)  In a demurrer proceeding, the defects must be apparent on the face of the pleading or by proper judicial notice.  (CCP § 430.30(a).)  A demurrer tests the pleadings alone and not the evidence or other extrinsic matters.  (SKF Farms v. Superior Court (1984) 153 Cal. App. 3d 902, 905.)  Therefore, it lies only where the defects appear on the face of the pleading or are judicially noticed.  (Id.)  The only issue involved in a demurrer hearing is whether the complaint, as it stands, unconnected with extraneous matters, states a cause of action.  (Hahn, 147 Cal.App.4th at 747.)III. AnalysisDefendant YMCA demurrers to the First (Childhood Sexual Assault), Second (Sexual Battery), and Third Causes of Action (IIED), on the grounds each fails to state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action.  (Code of Civil Procedure § 430.10(e).) Each is addressed in turn.A. Demurrer Based on Failure to Allege Respondeat SuperiorFirst, Defendant contends the First, Second, and Third causes of action fail because the alleged sexual abuse by Does 2 and 3 “was outside the course and scope of their alleged employment with YMCA,” and therefore, “YMCA cannot be vicariously liable for their alleged childhood sexual assault and sexual battery of Decedent.” (Dem. 3: 14-16.) Defendant asserts it is “well-established that an employer cannot be vicariously liable for an employee’s sexual molestation of a minor because such misconduct is outside the course and scope of employment as a matter of law.” (Dem. 4: 21-23.) In the Second Amended Complaint, Plaintiff alleges the decedent “attend[ed] a camp organized and sponsored by the Torrance -South Bay YMCA when he was approximately 14 years of age,” where he was introduced to Does 2 and 3. (SAC ¶ 15.) Does 2 and 3 are alleged to be “employees, agents, and/or representatives of YMCA at the camp.” (Id.) Plaintiff alleges Does 2 and 3 “were allowed unlimited and unsupervised access to the minors who were attending the camp, including being able to shower with them.” (Id. ¶ 16.) Over the course of three days, Plaintiff alleges Does 2 and 3 “repeatedly sexually abused and assaulted Decedent,” including abuse occurring in the shower. (Id. ¶ 17.) Under the doctrine of respondeat superior, an employer may be held vicariously liable for torts committed by an employee within the scope of employment. [Citation.] (Mary M. v. City of Los Angeles (1991), 54 Cal. 3d 202, 208).  “A risk arises out of the employment when ‘in the context of the particular enterprise an employee’s conduct is not so unusual or startling that it would seem unfair to include the loss resulting from it among other costs of the employer's business. [Citations.] In other words, where the question is one of vicarious liability, the inquiry should be whether the risk was one ‘that may fairly be regarded as typical of or broadly incidental’ to the enterprise undertaken by the employer. [Citation.]’ ” (Id., citing Perez v. Van Groningen & Sons, Inc., 41 Cal.3d at p. 968). Even tortious conduct that violates an employee’s official duties, does not benefit the employer, and is willful or malicious in nature may be within the scope of employment.  (Id.)  In Mary M. v. City of Los Angeles, a woman was raped by a city police officer.  (54 Cal. 3d at 207). The officer, who was in uniform and driving a city-issued black-and-white vehicle, pulled plaintiff over and subjected her to a field sobriety test. (Id.) Instead of placing her under arrest, the officer drove her home, where he raped her. (Id.) The victim then brought a civil suit against the officer and his employer.  (Id.)  The trial court entered judgment for the plaintiff, after a jury verdict in her favor and a special finding by the jury that the officer acted within the scope of his employment. (Id.).  The appeals court reversed.  On appeal to the California Supreme Court, the court reversed the lower Court’s judgment, holding that when a police officer on duty misuses his official authority by raping a woman whom he has detained, the public entity that employs him can be held vicariously liable.  (Id. at 221).  The court explained:  Here, [the officer] was acting within the scope of his employment when he detained plaintiff for erratic driving, when he ordered her to get out of her car and to perform a field sobriety test, and when he ordered her to get in his police car. Then, misusing his authority as a law enforcement officer, he drove her to her home, where he raped her. When plaintiff attempted to resist [the officer’s] criminal conduct, he continued to assert his authority by threatening to take her to jail. Viewing the transaction as a whole, it cannot be said that, as a matter of law, [the officer] was acting outside the scope of his employment when he raped plaintiff.(Id. at 219).In Lisa M. v. Henry Mayo Newhall Memorial Hospital (1995) 12 Cal.4th 291, 294, a victim sued the hospital after a hospital ultrasound technician sexually molested a woman under the pretense of conducting an ultrasound imaging exam. The trial court granted summary judgment for the hospital.  (Id.) The court of appeals reversed, relying on the theory of respondeat superior.  (Id.)  On appeal to the Supreme Court, the Court reversed again.  The Court first addressed whether the technician’s acts were “endangered by” or an “outgrowth” of his employment.  (Id. at 300).  It answered this question in the negative, explaining that the technicians “motivating emotions” were not fairly attributable to work-related events or conditions. (Id. at 301). “The technician's decision to engage in conscious exploitation of the patient did not arise out of the performance of the examination, although the circumstances of the examination made it possible.”  (Id.)Second, the Court looked to the foreseeability of the conduct.  “An intentional tort is foreseeable, for purposes of respondeat superior, only if ‘in the context of the particular enterprise an employee's conduct is not so unusual or startling that it would seem unfair to include the loss resulting from it among other costs of the employer's business.’”  (Id. at 302).  This is a question “of a relationship between the nature of the work involved and the type of tort committed.”  (Id.)  The court found the technician’s conduct was the “independent product of [his] aberrant decision to engage in conduct unrelated to his duties,” and therefore not foreseeable.  The Court distinguished the case from Mary M., noting the Mary M. was a limited holding.  (Id. at 304).  It reasoned that while a “police officer’s assault may be foreseeable from the scope of his unique authority over detainees, we are unable to say the same of an ultrasound technician’s assault on a patient.”  (Id.)In John R. v. Oakland Unified Sch. Dist. (1989) 48 Cal. 3d 438, the California Supreme Court held that the school district which employed a teacher who sexually molested a student could not be held vicariously liable for the teacher's acts under the doctrine of respondeat superior. The court largely narrowed its analysis on the application of vicarious liability to school districts. (Id. at 450-452.)Here, considering the foregoing authorities with the facts alleged in the Second Amended Complaint, for pleadings purposes, Plaintiff has sufficiently alleged facts to support respondeat superior liability against Defendant YMCA. The court notes that ordinarily, the determination whether an employee has acted within the scope of employment presents a question of fact; it becomes a question of law only when “the facts are undisputed and no conflicting inferences are possible.”  (Mary M., supra, 54 Cal. 3d at 213).Given the allegations in the context of a camp environment, it cannot be said that Doe 2 and 3’s conduct was “not so unusual or startling that it would seem unfair to include the loss resulting from it” to Defendant YMVA.  (Lisa M., 12 Cal.4th at 302). Rather, a jury could conclude—based on the facts alleged and facts that could be revealed in discovery—that Defendant YMCA can reasonably be held liable for the alleged sexual assaults by its employees. Therefore, this issue cannot be resolved by demurrer.Accordingly, Defendant’s Demurrer to the First, Second, and Third Causes of Action is OVERRULED.B. Demurrer to IIED Cause of ActionSecond, Defendant argues Plaintiff has plead insufficient facts to support the Third Cause of Action for intentional infliction of emotional distress. “A cause of action for intentional infliction of emotional distress exists when there is ‘(1) extreme and outrageous conduct by the defendant with the intention of causing, or reckless disregard of the probability of causing, emotional distress; (2) the plaintiff's suffering severe or extreme emotional distress; and (3) actual and proximate causation of the emotional distress by the defendant's outrageous conduct.  A defendant's conduct is ‘outrageous’ when it is so ‘extreme as to exceed all bounds of that usually tolerated in a civilized community. And the defendant's conduct must be ‘intended to inflict injury or engaged in with the realization that injury will result.’”  (Hughes v. Pair (2009) 46 Cal.4th 1035, 1050-51, quoting Potter v. Firestone Tire & Rubber Co. (1993) 6 Cal.4th 965, 1001) (internal citations omitted). “Liability for intentional infliction of emotional distress ‘ “does not extend to mere insults, indignities, threats, annoyances, petty oppressions, or other trivialities.”  (Bock v. Hansen (2014) 225 Cal. App. 4th 215, 233.)  Severe emotional distress means “ ‘emotional distress of such substantial quality or enduring quality that no reasonable [person] in civilized society should be expected to endure it.’”  (Id.)Although a claim for IIED will generally present multiple questions of fact, a court may sustain a demurrer to the claim when “the facts alleged do not amount to outrageous conduct as a matter of law.” (Bock, supra, 225 Cal. App. 4th at 235.)  The process has been described as “more intuitive than analytical.”  (So v. Shin (2013) 212 Cal.App.4th 652, 671–672.)Here, Plaintiff alleges Defendant YMCA was “apprised, knew, or should have known and/or [was] on notice of DOE 2’s and/or DOE 3’s propensities and disposition to engage in unlawful sexual activity with minors.” (Id. ¶ 20.) Plaintiff alleges “Defendants failed to act to prevent abuse that had not yet occurred to Decedent when they had actual and/or constructive notice of DOE 2’s and/or DOE 3’s prior acts toward minors and/or acted to cover-up his abuse of minors that had already occurred.” (Id. ¶ 21.) “Defendants willfully refused to notify, give adequate warning, and/or implement appropriate safeguards and thereby created the peril that ultimately damaged Decedent.” (Id. ¶ 23.) “Defendants had the authority and the ability to obstruct and/or stop the sexual assaults but negligently and/or willfully failed to do so, thereby allowing his abuse of Decedent to occur and to continue unabated.” (Id. ¶ 27.) Defendants allegedly failed to stop the sexual abuse “in order to avoid a scandal.” (Id.) Plaintiff alleges Defendant’s conduct was “extreme and outrageous and intentionally and/or recklessly caused Decedent severe emotional distress.” (Id. ¶ 46.)Considering the allegations and the nature of the claims, and accepting the same as true, Plaintiff has adequately stated a claim for IIED. At minimum, Plaintiff has alleged extreme and outrageous conduct by the YMCA, done with a reckless disregard of the probability of causing the Decedent emotional distress. Accordingly, Defendant’s Demurrer to the Third Cause of Action is OVERRULED.IT IS SO ORDERED.Dated:   October 12, 2023 ___________________________________                Randolph M. Hammock                Judge of the Superior Court Any party may submit on the tentative ruling by contacting the courtroom via email at Smcdept49@lacourt.org by no later than 4:00 p.m. the day before the hearing.  All interested parties must be copied on the email.  It should be noted that if you submit on a tentative ruling the court will still conduct a hearing if any party appears. By submitting on the tentative you have, in essence, waived your right to be present at the hearing, and you should be aware that the court may not adopt the tentative, and may issue an order which modifies the tentative ruling in whole or in part.