 Case Number:  23STCV12365    Hearing Date:   September 25, 2023    Dept:  71 Superior
Court of California
County
of Los Angeles
 
DEPARTMENT 71
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



CESAR CRUZ, 
  
         vs.
 
TINA
  ODJAGHIAN LAW GROUP, et al.


 Case No.: 
  23STCV12365
 
 
 
 Hearing Date:  September 21, 2023



 
Defendants Tina Odjaghian
Law Group’s, Tina Odjaghian’s, Wil Fabian’s, and Elizabeth Fabian’s unopposed demurrer to pro per Plaintiff Cesar Cruz’s
complaint is sustained with 20 days leave to amend as to the x
causes of action.
 
          Defendants Tina
Odjaghian Law Group (“Law Group”), Tina Odjaghian (“Odjaghian”), Wil Fabian
(“Wil”), and Elizabeth Fabian (“Elizabeth”) (collectively, “Defendants”) demur unopposed
to the complaint (“Complaint”) of Plaintiff Cesar Cruz (“Cruz”) (“Plaintiff”), in
pro per.  (Notice of Demurrer, pg.
1.)
 
Meet and Confer
Before filing a demurrer, the
moving party must meet and confer in person or by telephone with the party who
filed the pleading to attempt to reach an agreement that would resolve the
objections to the pleading and obviate the need for filing the demurrer.  (C.C.P. §430.41.)

Defendants’ counsel filed a
declaration stating on June 9, 2023, she called and left a voicemail message
for Plaintiff to discuss the deficiencies in his Complaint and also sent him an
email.  (Decl. of Hak ¶4.)  Defendant’s counsel
declares the parties were unable to come to an agreement as to all of the
items in the demurrer.  (Decl.
of Alcumbrac ¶5, Exh. 5.)  Defendants’
counsel declares that having not heard from Plaintiff since she sent him an
email and called him, she called and sent him two emails on June 19, 2023.  (Decl. of Alcumbrac ¶6, Exh. 6.)  Defendants’ counsel declares Plaintiff
responded to her June 19, 2023, email later that day, in which he stated that he
was preparing an amended complaint and that he would send it to her on June 23,
2023.  (Decl. of Alcumbrac ¶7, Exh. 7.)  Defendants’ counsel declares she engaged in
several email correspondences with Plaintiff regarding issues with his proposed
amended complaint, namely that he would file the complaint in the Imperial
County Superior Court.  (Decl. of
Alcumbrac ¶¶9-11, Exhs. 9-11.)  Defendant’s counsel’s declaration substantially
complies the requirements of C.C.P. §430.41(a)
because states the issues raised in the demurrer could not be resolved out of
court.  (C.C.P. §430.41(a); see
Decl. of Alcumbrac ¶12.) 
Therefore, the Court will consider the instant demurrer.
 
          Background
          Plaintiff
filed his operative Complaint against Defendants on February 3, 2023, in the
Imperial County Superior Court.  On May
1, 2023, Defendants’ motion to transfer was heard before the Imperial County
Superior Court; the Imperial County Superior Court granted Defendants’ motion
to transfer Plaintiff’s case to the Los Angeles County Superior Court.  Plaintiff’s case was assigned to the instant
Court on June 12, 2023.  Plaintiff’s
Complaint alleges four causes of action: (1) breach of contract; (2) fraud; (3)
general negligence; and (4) “intentional.”
          On July 3,
2023, Defendants filed the instant demurrer. 
As of the date of this hearing Plaintiff has not filed an opposition.
 
Demurrer
Summary of Demurrer
Defendants demur
on the basis that Plaintiff’s 1st through 4th causes of action are uncertain
and the 2nd through 4th causes of action fail to state facts sufficient to
constitute causes of action against Defendants. 
(Demurrer, pgs. 3-4; C.C.P. §§430.10(e), (f).)
 
Legal Standard
“[A] demurrer tests the legal sufficiency of the allegations in a complaint.”
(Lewis v. Safeway, Inc. (2015) 235 Cal.App.4th 385, 388.)  A demurrer can be used only to challenge
defects that appear on the face of the pleading under attack or from matters
outside the pleading that are judicially noticeable.  (See Donabedian v. Mercury Insurance Co. (2004)
116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994 [in ruling on a demurrer, a court may not consider
declarations, matters not subject to judicial notice, or documents not accepted
for the truth of their contents].)  For
purposes of ruling on a demurrer, all facts pleaded in a complaint are assumed
to be true, but the reviewing court does not assume the truth of conclusions of
law.  (Aubry v. Tri-City Hospital
District (1992) 2 Cal.4th 962, 967.)
 
Uncertainty
A demurrer for
uncertainty will be sustained only where the complaint is so bad that defendant
cannot reasonably respond—i.e., he or she cannot reasonably determine what
issues must be admitted or denied, or what counts or claims are directed
against him or her.  (Khoury v. Maly’s of California, Inc. (1993)
14 Cal.App.4th 612, 616.) 
If the complaint
contains enough facts to apprise defendant of the issues it is being asked to
meet, failure to label each cause of action is not ground for demurrer:
“Although inconvenient, annoying and inconsiderate, the lack of labels . . .
does not substantially impair [defendant’s] ability to understand the
complaint.” (Williams v. Beechnut Nutrition Corp. (1986) 185 Cal.App.3d
135, 139 n.2.) 
Where a demurrer
is made upon this ground, it must distinctly specify exactly how or why the
pleading is uncertain, and where such uncertainty appears (by reference to page
and line numbers of the complaint).  (See Fenton v. Groveland Community
Services District (1982) 135 Cal.App.3d 797, 809.) 
Defendants fail
to specify where the uncertainty appears by reference to page line and numbers
in the complaint.  (See id.)  However, Plaintiff’s Complaint as
a whole is impermissibly uncertain such that Defendants cannot reasonably
determine what issues must be admitted or denied, or what counts or claims are
directed against them.  (Khoury, 14 Cal.App.4th at pg. 616.)
Accordingly,
Defendants’ demurrer on the basis of uncertainty is sustained with 20
days leave to amend. 
 
Failure to State
a Claim
Breach of
Contract (1st COA)
A cause of action for breach of contract requires the following
elements: (1) the existence of a contract; (2) plaintiff’s performance or
non-performance; (3) defendant’s breach of the contract; and (4) damages
suffered by plaintiff.  (Reichert
v. General Insurance Co. (1968) 68 Cal.2d 822, 830.)
Plaintiff must plead the contract, plaintiff’s performance or excuse
for non-performance, defendant’s breach, and damage to plaintiff therefrom.  (Acoustics, Inc.
v. Trepte Construction Co. (1971) 14 Cal.App.3d 887, 913.)  Although a written contract is usually pleaded
by alleging its making and attaching a copy which is incorporated by reference,
a written contract can also be pleaded by alleging the making and the substance
of the relevant terms.  (Construction Protective Services, Inc. v. TIG Specialty Insurance
Co. (2002) 29 Cal.4th 189, 198-199; Perry v. Robertson (1988) 201
Cal.App.3d 333, 341.)  “An oral contract
may be pleaded generally as to its effect, because it is rarely possible to
allege the exact words. [Citation.] A demurrer for uncertainty is strictly
construed, even where a complaint is in some respects uncertain, because
ambiguities can be clarified under modern discovery procedures. [Citations.]”  (Khoury, 14 Cal.App.4th at pg. 616.) 
That plaintiff could not allege with specificity the exact terms of the
contract does not preclude statement of a cause of action.  (Id.)
Plaintiff alleges a retainer agreement was made.  (Complaint ¶BC-1.)  Plaintiff alleges criminal breach of contract.  (Complaint ¶BC-1.)  Plaintiff alleges Defendant entered a binding
contract with the intention to deceive and defraud.  (Complaint ¶BC-2.)  Plaintiff alleges he suffered damages
proximately caused by defendant’s breach of the agreement by personal
injury.  (Complaint ¶BC-4.)  Plaintiff alleges he is entitled to $100
million in attorney’s fees, punitive damages, and restitution.  (Complaint ¶BC-6.)
Plaintiff fails to plead the existence of a written or oral contract,
either by attaching the contract or alleging the terms of the contract, and
with whom the contract was made.  (Construction Protective Services, Inc., 29 Cal.4th at pgs. 198-199; Khoury, 14 Cal.App.4th at pg. 616.)  Plaintiff
fails to allege his performance or non-performance of the contract and which
defendants breached the contract, and facts regarding the breach of the
contract.  (Reichert, 68
Cal.2d at pg. 830.)
Accordingly,
Defendants’ demurrer to Plaintiff’s 1st cause of action
for breach of contract is sustained with 20 days leave to amend.
 
Fraud (2nd COA)
          A fraud cause of action must contain the following
elements: (1) defendant made representations that were false when made; (2)
defendant knew the statements were false when made; (3) plaintiff justifiably
relied upon the statements; and (4) as a result, plaintiff suffered damages.  (CACI 1900).  
Fraud must be pleaded with
specificity rather than with general and conclusory allegations.  (Small v. Fritz Companies, Inc. (2003)
30 Cal.4th 167, 184.)  The specificity
requirement means a plaintiff must allege facts showing how, when, where, to
whom, and by what means the representations were made, and, in the case of a
corporate defendant, the plaintiff must allege the names of the persons who
made the representations, their authority to speak on behalf of the
corporation, to whom they spoke, what they said or wrote, and when the
representation was made.  (Lazar v.
Superior Court (1996) 12 Cal.4th 631, 645; West v. JPMorgan Chase Bank,
N.A. (2013) 214 Cal.App.4th 780, 793.)
Plaintiff alleges intentional
or negligent misrepresentation of criminal malpractice.  (Complaint ¶FR-2.)  Plaintiff alleges the representations were
false and the truth was as stated in Attachment FR-2.b, which is not attached
to the Complaint.  (Complaint ¶FR-2.)  Plaintiff alleges when defendant made the
representations, defendant knew they were false, or defendant had no reasonable
ground for believing the representations were trust.  (Complaint ¶FR-2.)  Plaintiff alleges defendant
concealed or suppressed material facts as stated in Attachment FR-3.a, but does
not include such an attachment with his Complaint.  (Complaint ¶FR-3.)  Plaintiff alleges defendant concealed or
suppressed material facts defendant was bound to disclose or by telling
plaintiff other facts to mislead plaintiff and prevent plaintiff from
discovering the concealed or suppressed facts. 
(Complaint ¶FR-3.)  Plaintiff
alleges defendant made a promise about a material matter without any intention
of performing it in the form of loss of benefits and entering a binding
contract with the intention to deceive and defraud Plaintiff.  (Complaint ¶FR-4.)  Plaintiff alleges in justifiable reliance
upon defendant’s conduct, Plaintiff was induced to act as state in Attachment
FR-5, but no such attachment is included with the Complaint.  (Complaint ¶FR-5.)  Plaintiff alleges because of his reliance
upon defendant’s conduct, Plaintiff has been damaged as stated in Attachment
FR-6, but no attachment is included. 
(Complaint ¶FR-6.)  Plaintiff
alleges Defendants colluded with the insurance company by way of concealment,
harming Plaintiff through continued oppressive malicious acts in order to
benefit.  (Complaint ¶FR-6.)
Plaintiff fails to allege a
cause of action for fraud.  Plaintiff
fails to allege facts showing how, when, where, to whom, and by what means the
representations were made.  (Lazar,
12 Cal.4th at pg. 645.)
Accordingly, Defendants’
demurrer to Plaintiff’s 2nd of action is sustained with 20 days leave to
amend.
 
General Negligence (3rd COA)
A cause of action for
negligence requires the following elements: (1) a legal duty owed to plaintiff
to use due care; (2) breach of duty; (3) causation; and (4) damage to
plaintiff.  (County of Santa Clara v.
Atlantic Richfield Co. (2006) 137 Cal.App.4th 292, 318; Ladd v. County
of San Mateo (1996) 12 Cal.4th 913, 917.)
Plaintiff alleges Defendants
Does 1 to 4 was the proximate cause of damages to Plaintiff.  (Complaint ¶IT-1.)  Plaintiff alleges by the following acts or
omissions to act, defendant intentionally caused the damages to plaintiff: Plaintiff
entered into a binding contract with premeditated intent to deceive and defraud
Plaintiff.  (Complaint ¶IT-1.)  Plaintiff alleges the following reasons for
liability: infliction of emotional distress, misrepresentation, criminal
malpractice, legal malpractice, professional malpractice, breach of contract,
collusion, corruption, conflict of interest, financial exploitation,
discrimination, unfair business practices, exploitation/abuse, deception,
fraud, defamation, discrimination, breach of duty of care, breach of fiduciary
duty, malice, oppression, strict liability, assault-battery, and aggravated
assault.  (Complaint ¶IT-1.)  
Plaintiff fails to allege
Defendants owed him a legal duty to use due care, Defendants breached the duty,
causation, and damage to plaintiff.  (County
of Santa Clara, 137 Cal.App.4th at pg. 318.)
Accordingly,
Defendants’ demurrer to Plaintiff’s 3rd cause of action is sustained with
20 days leave to amend.
 
Intentional Tort (4th COA)
          Plaintiff fails to allege a cognizable
cause of action; Plaintiff must identify the particular intentional tort and
allege facts that meet the required elements to allege the specific tort.  Plaintiff makes the same allegations as
stated in the 3rd cause of action. 
Plaintiff cannot allege an intentional tort by way of listing the names
of various intentional torts.
Accordingly,
Defendants’ demurrer to Plaintiff’s 4th cause of action is sustained with
20 days leave to amend.
 
          Conclusion
Defendants’
demurrer to Plaintiff’s 1st, 2ne, 3rd, and 4th causes of
action in his Complaint is sustained with 20
days leave to amend.

Moving Party to
give notice.
 
 
Dated:  September _____, 2023
                                                                             





  