  Case Number:  23STCP01914    Hearing Date:   September 25, 2023    Dept:  71 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
 
DEPARTMENT
71
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 



DR. PAUL C.
  BROUN, et al.,
  
         vs.
 
STATE OF
  GEORGIA.


 Case No.:  23STCP019141
 
 
 
 Hearing
  Date:  September 25, 2023



 
Petitioners Dr. Paul C. Broun’s, Sheri Gilligan’s, and VoterGA’s
motion to compel compliance with Petitioners’ second Subpoena Duces Tecum,
served on Non-party Los Angeles County District Attorney’s Office, Custodian of
Records and Evidence, served on Non-party on March 14, 2023, to produce and
permit inspection and copying of forensically sound evidence drives containing
information from Konnech, Inc. is granted. 

 
LADA is to produce the items responsive to Petitioners’ request
within 30 days of this ruling.
 
          Petitioners Dr. Paul C. Broun
(“Broun”), Sheri Gilligan (“Gilligan”), and VoterGA (“VoterGA”) (collectively, “Petitioners”)
move for an order compelling Non-party Los Angeles County District Attorney’s
Office, Custodian of Records and Evidence (“LADA”) to comply
with Petitioners’ second subpoena duces tecum, served on LADA on March 14, 2023,
requiring LADA to produce and permit inspection and copying of forensically
sound evidence drives containing information from Konnech, Inc. (“Konnech”)
(“Subpoena”).  (Notice of Petition,
pgs. 1-2.)  Petitioners bring the instant
petition on the grounds that the records sought from LADA are directly relevant
to Petitioners’ out-of-state case, essential to a fair resolution of the
lawsuit, and cannot be obtained by less intrusive means.  (Notice of Petition, pg. 2.)
 
Background
          On December 8,
2022, Petitioners served LADA with their first subpoena duces tecum, to which
LADA objected and refused to produce any requested documents.  (Decl. of Cubeiro ¶¶3-4, Exh. B.)  On January 27, 2023, Petitioners’ counsel and
LADA’s counsel met and conferred via telephone to discuss the subpoena, and
Petitioners’ counsel offered to narrow the focus of the request.  (See Decl. of Cubeiro ¶6.)  On February 1, 2023, Petitioners’ counsel
emailed LADA’s counsel a narrowed and focused request.  (Decl. of Cubeiro ¶7, Exh. C.)  Petitioners’ counsel did not receive a
response to his email.  (Decl. of Cubeiro
¶8.)  Petitioners filed the Subpoena at
issue on March 13, 2023.  (Decl. of Cubeiro
¶9.)  On March 31, 2023, LADA filed an
objection to Petitioners’ second subpoena and refused to provide any of the
requested documents.  (Decl. of Cubeiro
¶10.)
          On May 31, 2021, Petitioners
filed the instant petition.  LADA filed
an opposition on August 24, 2023.  Petitioners
filed their reply on August 30, 2023.
 
          Request for
Judicial Notice
          Petitioners’ 8/30/23
request for judicial notice is denied.
 
          Evidentiary
Objection
          LADA’s 8/24/23
evidentiary objection to the Declaration of Garland Favorito (“Favorito”) are
overruled as to Nos. 2, 3, 5, and 7, and sustained as to Nos. 1, 4, and 6. 
 
Motion
to Compel Compliance
C.C.P. §2025.480(a) provides: “If a deponent
fails to answer any question or to produce any document, electronically stored
information, or tangible thing under the deponent’s control that is specified
in the deposition notice or a deposition subpoena, the party seeking discovery
may move the court for an order compelling that answer or production.”  (C.C.P. §2025.480(a).)[1]
Petitioners’ subpoena requests the following
items:
A copy of all forensically sound evidence drives imaged from a)
computer/electronic hardware obtained from any Konnech, Inc. location or b) any
and all cloud-based services used by Konnech, including the following:
 
1) From the Konnech, Inc. corporate network:
a. All PCAP traffic at the network perimeter
b. All images identifying ingress and egress TCP/IP source and
c. Destination IP addresses for all known ports or protocols in use in
such communications.
 
2) From the Konnech, Inc. network mapping atoll, like NMAP
a. Enumerated topology of the network
b. Enumerated topology of network infrastructure, and
c. Enumerated topology hosts (servers, workstations) existing on the
network, including all generated NMAP files and PDFs
 
3) From Konnech, Inc. data captured from all third party cloud services
company sites like Jira, Microsoft Teams, or any similar services, including
corporate administrative services.
 
In regards to a search warrant executed in the State of Michigan, or
otherwise gathered in relation to Case No. BA 509784, People of the State of
California v. Eugene Wei Yu (DOB: 11/01/1957).
 
(Petition SS, pg. 2.)
LADA fails to demonstrate that the items requested are
privileged.  LADA argues that the items are privileged under Evidence Code
§1040, which provides in pertinent part,
(a) 
As used in this section,
“official information” means information acquired in confidence by a public
employee in the course of his or her duty and not open, or officially
disclosed, to the public prior to the time the claim of privilege is made.
 
(b) 
A public entity has a
privilege to refuse to disclose official information, and to prevent another
from disclosing official information, if the privilege is claimed by a person
authorized by the public entity to do so and either of the following apply:
 
(1)  
Disclosure is forbidden
by an act of the Congress of the United States or a statute of this state.
 
(2)  
Disclosure of the
information is against the public interest because there is a necessity for
preserving the confidentiality of the information that outweighs the necessity
for disclosure in the interest of justice; but no privilege may be claimed
under this paragraph if any person authorized to do so has consented that the
information be disclosed in the proceeding. In determining whether disclosure
of the information is against the public interest, the interest of the public
entity as a party in the outcome of the proceeding may not be considered.
 
(Evid. Code §§1040(a)-(b).)
LADA argues that the items subject to the subpoena are privileged
because they constitute “official information” because they were “acquired in
confidence” by the DA in the course of his duty and have not yet been
officially disclosed.  (Opposition, pg.
3.)  Yet, LADA makes no showing that the items were acquired in
confidence.  Absent a showing that the items were acquired in confidence,
no privilege applies.  (Shepherd v. Superior Court (1976)
17 Cal.3d 107, 124, overruled on other grounds by People v. Holloway
(2004) 33 Cal.4th 96; Ibarra v.
Superior Court (2013) 217 Cal.App.4th 695, 705.)
Moreover, even if LADA were to show that the items subject to the
subpoena were “acquired in confidence” and so constitute “official
information,” the privilege prescribed by Evidence Code §1040 is not
absolute.  Items may be withheld under the provisions of §1040(b)(2)
only upon a finding that disclosure would be “against the public interest.”  (Shepherd, 17 Cal.3d at pg. 125.) 
LADA has made no such showing.  While Mark Beeart declares that the
Konnech matter is an open investigation (Decl. of Beaart ¶6), moving party’s
evidence belies that assertion.  (Reply, pg. 2 n.1.)  Moreover, Mr.
Beeart makes no showing as to why the disclosure of the subpoenaed items would
impact any ongoing investigation. 
Accordingly, Petitioners’ motion is granted.
 
          Conclusion
Petitioners’
motion to
compel LADA’s compliance with their March 14, 2023, subpoena duces tecum to
produce and permit inspection and copying of forensically sound evidence drives
containing information from Konnech, Inc. is granted.  
LADA is to
produce the items responsive to Petitioners’ request within 30 days of this
ruling.
Moving Party to
give notice.
 
 
Dated:  September _____, 2023
                                                                             





  