 Case Number:  23STCV30345    Hearing Date:   October 7, 2024    Dept:  52 Tentative Ruling: 
Cross-Defendant
Universal Protection Service, LP’s Demurrer to First Amended Cross-Complaint
Cross-defendant
Universal Protection Service, LP, doing business as
Allied Universal Security Services (Universal) demurs to the first amended
cross-complaint by Jamison Services, Inc. and Jamison Properties, Inc.
(collectively, “Jamison”).
Universal demurs only to Jamison’s sixth cause of
action for negligence.  Jamison does not
allege sufficient facts to constitute a cause of action for negligence.  The
economic loss rule bars this claim.  “In general, there is no recovery in tort for
negligently inflicted ‘purely economic losses,’ meaning financial harm
unaccompanied by physical or property damage.” 
(Sheen v. Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. (2022) 12 Cal.5th 905,
922.)  “[T]he rule functions to bar
claims in negligence for pure economic losses in deference to a contract
between litigating parties.”  (Ibid.)
 
“ ‘[T]he economic
loss rule requires a [contractual party] to recover in contract for purely
economic loss due to disappointed expectations, unless [the party] can
demonstrate harm above and beyond a broken contractual promise.’ ”  (Rattagan v. Uber Technologies, Inc. (2024)
17 Cal.5th 1, 20 (Rattagan).)  “[T]he
economic loss doctrine applies when the parties have entered into a contract;
the plaintiff sues for tort damages, alleging the defendant failed to perform
as the contract requires; and negligently caused economic losses flowing from
the breach.  In such a case, the
plaintiffs are generally limited to recovery of those economic damages and
cannot seek to expand their remedies beyond those available in contract.  The doctrine does not apply if the defendant’s
breach caused physical damage or personal injury beyond the economic losses
caused by the contractual breach and the defendant violated a duty flowing, not
from the contract, but from a separate, legally recognized tort obligation.”  (Id. at p. 44.)
The complaint in
this action by plaintiff Jane Doe D.R. asserts claims against Jamison and
Universal arising from sexual assault she suffered at a property where Jamison
and Universal provided security or other services.  Jamison’s first amended cross-complaint
alleges Jamison Services, Inc. entered a written contract with Universal’s
predecessor.  (FACC, ¶ 19.)  The sixth cause of action for negligence
alleges Universal “owed a duty to Cross-Complainants to exercise reasonable
care in supplying the product and/or service, and/or performing the work
required of them arising out of their express and/or implied agreements with
Cross-Complainants that Jane Doe alleges caused her injuries.”  (¶ 32a.) 
(The first amended cross-complaint includes two paragraphs numbered
32.  The court refers to them as 32a and
32b.)    
Jamison thus alleges
Universal negligently performed the services for which Jamison hired it via the
Universal’s “agreements with Cross-Complainants.”  (FACC, ¶ 32a.)  Jamison does not allege it suffered physical
damage or property damage.  Only
plaintiff Jane Doe D.R. alleges a physical injury.  Jamison’s alleges it was injured because it
“incurred costs and expenses associated with the resolution of” plaintiff’s
claims against Jamison.  (¶ 32b.)  Those are purely economic losses arising out
of the contractual relationship between Jamison and Universal.
Even if Jamison
alleged it personally suffered property damage, negligence requires both an
injury “beyond the economic losses caused by the contractual breach and [that]
the defendant violated a duty flowing, not from the contract, but from a
separate, legally recognized tort obligation.” 
(Rattagan, supra, 17 Cal.5th at p. 44, italics added.)  Jamison alleges no facts establishing
Universal owed it a tort duty independent of its contractual duties.
Disposition
Cross-defendant Universal Protection Service, LP,
doing business as Allied Universal Security Services’ demurrer to the sixth
cause of action alleged in the first amended cross-complaint by Jamison
Services, Inc. and Jamison Properties, Inc. is sustained
with 20 days’ leave to amend.