 Case Number:  22STCV33581    Hearing Date:   May 20, 2024    Dept:  29 Ex Parte Application (Deemed as a Motion and
set for hearing) to Withdraw and Amend Responses to Request for Admissions No.
18 (Set One) and No. 27 (Set Three), filed by of Defendant IHG Management
(Maryland) LLC.
Ex Parte Application to Continue Trial, filed
by Defendants.
Tentative
The
Court will hear from counsel.
The
Court’s tentative ruling (pending resolution of certain issues relating to the
evidence) is to grant the motion, to grant in part the alternative request of
Plaintiff for monetary relief, to grant the alternative request of Plaintiff to
reopen discovery for the limited purpose of allowing Plaintiff to conduct
discovery on this issue, and to continue the trial.
The
Court’s tentative ruling is to deny Defendants’ application to continue trial.
This is
only a tentative ruling. It is not an order of the Court and should not be
treated as or relied on as a court order. The tentative ruling is subject to
change, including at or before the hearing.
Background
On October
20, 2020, according to the First Amended Complaint (the “FAC”), three
individuals assaulted and robbed at gunpoint Plaintiffs Jacqueline Duclos, Sumoya
Michael, and Jane Doe (a minor child) (collectively, “Plaintiffs”) while they
were staying in a guestroom of the InterContinental Hotel in downtown Los
Angeles. (FAC, ¶ 14.) Plaintiffs allege that the robbery was
“orchestrated” by and/or “perpetrated with the direct assistance of” Defendant Ronald Elie (“Elie”), who
was then a Director of Housekeeping of the hotel. (Id., ¶¶ 1, 7, 14.)
Plaintiffs also allege (among other things) that Elie, as a Director of
Housekeeping, had a keycard that allowed him to enter guest rooms, including
Plaintiffs’ room; that Elie was “cross-trained with respect to security
protocols for the Hotel”; and that Elie was able to advise the three men “of
these protocols, furnish them with a key to gain access to the Hotel lobby and
avoid suspicion from Hotel security.” (Id., ¶¶ 17-18, 22.)
On October 14, 2022,
Plaintiffs filed the Complaint in this action against Defendants Ronald Elie;
InterContinental Hotel Los Angeles Downtown; InterContinental Hotels Group, PLC;
Keehong Woo; Hajin International Corp; and Does 1-50, asserting causes of
action for (1) negligence, (2) negligent hiring, supervision, and
retention, (3) invasion of privacy, (4) negligent infliction of emotional
distress (“NIED”), and (5) Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress
(“IIED”). Plaintiffs subsequently amended their complaint to
name Hanjin International Corporation as Doe 1; Jin Ho Lee as Doe 2; and IHG
Management (Maryland) LLC as Doe 3.
On May
11, 2023, Defendants IHG Management (Maryland) LLC (“IHGM”) and Hanjin
International Corp. (“Hanjin) demurred to the complaint. IHGM and Hanjin
(collectively, “Defendants”) also filed a motion to strike the claim for
punitive damages. On June 28, 2023, the Court overruled the demurrer and
granted the motion to strike, with leave to amend.
On July 28, 2023, Plaintiffs filed the FAC. In the FAC,
Plaintiffs assert the same five causes of action against the same defendants.
On August 29, Defendants filed a motion to strike the punitive damages
allegations in the FAC. On October 2, the Court denied the motion.
Defendants filed their Answer to the FAC on November 3,
2023.
On
November 9, 2023, Defendants filed a motion for summary judgment or, in the
alternative, for summary adjudication. After taking the matter under
submission, the Court issued a ruling on April 19 denying Defendants’ motion
for summary judgment, granting Defendants’ motion for summary adjudication as
to Plaintiffs’ claim for punitive damages against them, and otherwise denying
Defendants’ motion for summary adjudication.
Trial is currently set for June 4,
2024.
There are two matters set for hearing
on May 20, 2024.
The first relates to certain
responses to Requests for Admission by Defendant IHGM. 
On September 8, 2023, IHGM served
responses to Plaintiff Jacqueline Duclos’s First Set of Requests for Admission.
(Samuels Decl., ¶ 3 & Exh. B.) Request for Admission No. 18, and the
Response thereto, are as follows:
REQUEST
FOR ADMISSION NO. 18:

Admit
that YOU were aware of DEFENDANT ELIE’s criminal background before hiring him. 
RESPONSE
TO REQUEST NO. 18: 
Objection.
Compound. Vague and ambiguous. Vague and confusing as to the phrase “criminal
background”. The request is argumentative, assumes facts not in evidence, and
lacks foundation. Without waiving any objections, Responding Party responds as
follows: 
Defendant
admits that the pre-hiring criminal background check generically identified
unspecified criminal activity that was more than seven (7) years prior and,
therefore, Defendant was legally prohibited under California law from taking
further action in that regard.
(Id., Exh. B, at p. 6.) IHGM’s
responses were verified, on information and belief, by Peter Clarke, Vice
President of IHGM. (Id., Exh. B, at p. 7 [misnumbered as p. 4].)
On November 3, 2023, IHGM served
responses to Plaintiff Jacqueline Duclos’s Third Set of Requests for Admission.
(Id., ¶ 4 & Exh. C.) Request for Admission No. 27, and the Response
thereto, are as follows:
REQUEST
FOR ADMISSION NO. 27:

Admit
that IHG Management (Maryland) LLC was legally prohibited under California law
from taking further action in regard to criminal activity it identified during
Elie’s prehiring criminal background, Request No. HA-011819-G29XU. 
RESPONSE
TO REQUEST FOR ADMISSION NO. 27:

Vague
and ambiguous as to “further action”; and calls for a legal conclusion.
Otherwise, admit.
(Id., Exh. C, at pp. 2-3.)
IHGM’s responses were again verified, on information and belief, by Mr. Clarke.
(Id., Exh. C, at p. 12.) (IHGM’s Responses to Requests for Admission
Nos. 18 and 27 are referred to as the “RFA Responses.)
On or about April 22, 2024, Defendants’
counsel David M. Samuels learned that the RFA Responses were incorrect. (Id.,
¶ 5.) According to Mr. Samuels’s declaration, the background check report on
Defendant Elie did not in fact identify “unspecified
criminal activity that was more than seven (7) years prior” to the report. (Ibid.)

On May 3, 2024, IHGM presented an ex parte
application (a) to continue the trial date so that a noticed motion to withdraw
and amend the RFA Responses could be heard or, in the alternative, (b) for an
order shortening time on a hearing on IHGM’s request to withdraw and amend,
with the ex parte application treated as the moving papers. Plaintiffs filed an
opposition.
The Court, after discussing the matter with
counsel, granted IHGM’s request for alternative relief, set the hearing for May
20, set a briefing schedule, and further permitted IHGM to submit further
evidence in support of the request by no later than May 6. On May 6, IHGM
submitted two additional declarations in support of the request. Plaintiffs
filed an opposition on May 13, 2024, along with objections to some of IHGM’s
evidence. IHGM filed a reply on May 16.
The second matter before the Court on May 20
relates to Defendants’ request to continue trial.
On May 16, 2024, Defendants presented an ex
parte application to continue the trial date. Plaintiffs filed an opposition.
The Court, after discussing the matter with counsel, continued the hearing on
Defendants’ ex parte application to May 20.
Legal Standard
Code
of Civil Procedure section 2033.300 governs requests to withdraw or amend
responses to requests for admission. Section 2033.300 provides:
“(a) A party may
withdraw or amend an admission made in response to a request for admission only
on leave of court granted after notice to all parties.
(b) The court may permit
withdrawal or amendment of an admission only if it determines that the
admission was the result of mistake, inadvertence, or excusable neglect, and
that the party who obtained the admission will not be substantially prejudiced
in maintaining that party’s action or defense on the merits.
(c) The court may impose
conditions on the granting of the motion that are just, including, but not
limited to, the following:
(1) An order that the
party who obtained the admission be permitted to pursue additional discovery
related to the matter involved in the withdrawn or amended admission.
(2) An order that the
costs of any additional discovery be borne in whole or in part by the party
withdrawing or amending the admission.”
The Court of Appeal discussed
section 2033.300 at length in New Albertsons, Inc. v. Superior Court (2008)
168 Cal.App.4th 1403. The Court of Appeal stated that the state “eliminates
undeserved windfalls obtain through requests for admission and furthers the
policy favoring the resolution of lawsuits on the merits.” (Id. at p.
1418.)   
Although the court has
discretion in ruling on a motion brought under section 2033.300, that
discretion “is not unlimited” and “must be exercised in
conformity with the spirit of the law and in a manner that serves the interests
of justice.” (Id., at p. 1420.)
“Because
the law strongly favors trial and disposition on the merits, any doubts in
applying section 2033.300 must be resolved in favor of the party seeking
relief. Accordingly, the court’s discretion to deny a motion under the statute
is limited to circumstances where it is clear that the mistake, inadvertence,
or neglect was inexcusable, or where it is clear that the withdrawal or
amendment would substantially prejudice the party who obtained the admission in
maintaining that party's action or defense on the merits.” 
(Id.
at pp. 1420-1421.)  
Objections to Evidence
Plaintiffs assert 11 objections to IHGM’s
declarations. 
The Court has considered these objections and OVERRULES
them. Although a number of the objected-to statements are inadmissible hearsay
if offered for the truth of the matters asserted, they are admissible evidence
as it relates to state of mind (which is relevant to the matters before the
Court).
Further consideration of Plaintiffs’ Objections
Nos. 1-4 (to the entirety of the Declaration of Sara Burns and to three
paragraphs of that declaration) is set forth below.
Discussion
IHGM’s counsel Mr. Samuels has submitted a declaration testifying to his
mistake. Mr. Samules states that the RFA Responses “were incorrect based on my
error.” (Samuels Decl., ¶ 5.) “The erroneous admissions,” Mr. Samuels
say, “were a result of my own mistake.” (Id., ¶ 6.)
The Court has considered the testimony of
Mr. Samuels, finds it credible, and accepts it. Mr. Samuels made an error.
That is the start of the Court’s analysis
under Code of Civil Procedure section 2033.300, but it is not the end of it.
Under subdivision (b), the Court must also consider whether IHGM’s RFA
Responses were “the result of” Mr. Samuels’s error, and whether the requested
relief would substantially prejudice Plaintiffs.
On the issue of the causal relationship
between Mr. Samuels’s error and IHGM’s RFA Responses, the evidence is a bit
murky. The RFA Responses were verified by Mr. Clarke, Vice President of IHGM,
not Mr. Samuels. Mr. Samuels, in his declaration, uses the phrases “based on”
and “result of,” but he does not provide any facts to draw the connection
between his own mistake and his client’s mistake in verifying the responses
containing erroneous information. Perhaps IHGM views this issue as
self-evident, but it is not. The parties, not their lawyers, are expected to
have the knowledge on which discovery responses are based. 
IHGM attempts – or at least at one point
attempted – to bridge that gap between Mr. Samuels and Mr. Clarke with the
Declaration of Sara Burns. Ms. Burns is a Senior Corporate Counsel of IHG
Hotels & Resorts. (Burns Decl., ¶ 1.) Ms. Burns testifies that she received
the information from Mr. Samuels that she now knows is incorrect, believed it
to be accurate at the time, and approved of the RFA Responses. (Id., ¶¶
3-5.) “The only basis for approving these erroneous admissions,” Ms. Burns
states, “was the misunderstanding originating with Mr. Samuels.” (Id., ¶
5.) Ms. Burns then states that she arranged for Mr. Clarke, an officer of IHGM,
to verify the RFA Responses on information and belief, even though Mr. Clarke
had no direct or personal knowledge of the substance of the underlying matters.
(Id., ¶ 6.)
The Court has considered the testimony of
Ms. Burns, finds it credible, and accepts it. Ms. Burns provides the necessary
connection between (1) Mr. Samuels’s error and (2) Mr. Clarke’s verification of
the RFA Responses containing the error.
In its reply, however, IHGM appears to
change tactics, now asking that Ms. Burns’s declaration “be stricken from the
record.” (Reply, at p. 8:7-8.) (The Court understands that IHGM is concerned
about issues relating to potential waiver (in whole or in part) of the
attorney-client privilege, but those issues are not before the Court at this
time.) The Court is prepared to consider the request to withdraw the
declaration of Ms. Burns, but IHGM must consider that, as a potential
consequence of that request, there could be a failure of proof on its request
to withdraw or amend the RFA Responses. THE COURT WILL HEAR FROM COUNSEL ON
THIS ISSUE.
Turning to the issue of prejudice in
subdivision (b) of Code of Civil Procedure section 2033.300, it is clear from
the context of the statute and the case law that, in this context, the
Legislature is generally not concerned about the “prejudice” associated with a
party having to submit evidence to prove its case on the merits, rather than
benefitting from the opposing party’s erroneous admission. Instead, the
Legislature’s concern is focused on the undue and/or substantial prejudice that
can arise when a matter is admitted, a party relies on the admission (by, for
example, deciding not to pursue certain discovery on the admitted matter), and
then the party making the admission seeks to withdraw or amend the admission –
leaving the opposing party without the admission or the discovery that would
otherwise have been pursued.
In this respect, subdivision (b) of the
statute (referring to substantial prejudice) and subdivision (c) (referring to conditions
imposed in relation to a withdrawal or amendment of the admission) can be read
together. It is certainly understandable that if the motion is granted,
Plaintiffs will (if allowed) pursue further discovery into what Defendants
knew, and when they knew it, with regard to Elie’s criminal history. This is
discovery that was unnecessary in light of the RFA Responses but is now necessary.
In addition, Plaintiffs may also seek the opportunity to conduct discovery into
the process that led to the RFA Responses; although the Court finds the
declarations of Mr. Samuels and Ms. Burns credible, Plaintiffs still should be given
the opportunity to explore these matters in more detail through discovery and,
if appropriate, present the conflict between the RFA Responses and the proposed
revised responses to the trier of fact for consideration of the issue at trial:
the trial judge will ultimately decide what evidence is and is not permitted at
trial, but the trier of fact may have to decide whether it believes that IHGM’s
RFA Responses were in fact erroneous. (See Jahn v. Brickey (1985) 168
Cal.App.3d 399, 405 [withdrawn admissions “may still be used ordinarily for
impeachment”].)
The Court finds that substantial prejudice
to Plaintiffs may be avoided by allowing Plaintiffs to reopen discovery (if
they wish) to pursue discovery into these matters. Such discovery was not
necessary when IHGM had admitted the truth of Requests for Admission Nos. 18
and 27 in its RFA Responses, but it may well be necessary now. At the very
least, Plaintiffs should have the opportunity to pursue this discovery, if they
choose, to cure the prejudice that they might otherwise face.
Plaintiffs’ other arguments regarding
prejudice, however, fall short. The Court certainly understands Plaintiffs’ extreme
level of frustration with what has occurred here, but in many respects
Plaintiffs’ arguments relating to prejudice are no more than complaints that
they will no longer enjoy the benefit of a windfall from an erroneous admission
by IHGM.
(On a related point, the Court finds that
both sides have made unhelpful arguments questioning the veracity and integrity
of the other. The Court does not find any merit in Plaintiffs’ argument that
this entire endeavor was part of a nefarious strategy of Defendants to mislead
Plaintiffs and delay the trial. And the Court does not even begin to comprehend
Defendants’ baseless accusation that Plaintiffs have somehow done something
wrong in relying on the RFA Responses, sworn under oath by IHGM, in deciding not
to pursue further discovery to obtain evidence on a factual issue that was
fully resolved by the RFA Responses.) 
Finally, as to the conditions that the
Court may order pursuant to subdivision (c), the Court rejects Plaintiffs’
argument that 100 percent of the attorney’s fees incurred since the date of the
first admission should be borne by Defendants. The Court has reviewed the
evidence submitted by Plaintiffs, including counsel’s billing records, and
finds: (1) that much of the work performed since September 2023 would have had
to have been done even if IHGM had not provided erroneous RFA Responses (such
as pursuing other discovery, opposing Defendants’ summary judgment motion, and
preparing for trial); and (2) that even if some of the work would have been
done differently (or not at all), Plaintiffs have not provided an adequate
basis on this record to differentiate between work that might have been done
differently and work that would have been done the same, with or without the
erroneous RFA Responses. Awarding 100 percent of the fees incurred since
September 2023, as Plaintiffs request, would therefore result in a windfall to
Plaintiffs.
Having said that, imposing some conditions
on the granting of the relief requested by IHGM is plainly necessary,
appropriate, and just. Having considered all of the evidence in the record and
the arguments of counsel, the Court, pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure
section 2033.300, subdivision (c), imposes the following conditions:
First, the Court reopens discovery for the
limited purpose of allowing Plaintiffs to conduct further discovery on the
matters covered by the RFA Responses, including (but not necessarily limited
to) Defendants’ knowledge of Defendant Elie’s past criminal activities and the
circumstances surrounding the drafting and verification of the RFA Responses.
This may include depositions and/or written discovery. (See Code Civ. Proc., §
2033.330, subd. (c)(1).)
Second, the Court continues trial to a date
to be determined. The continuation of trial does not reopen discovery (except
as set forth above) or reset any discovery deadlines.
Third, the Court orders that the reasonable
costs of the additional discovery, including attorney’s fees, will be borne by
IHGM. (See Code Civ. Proc., § 2033.330, subd. (c)(2); see also Rhule v.
Wavefront Technology, Inc. (2017) 8 Cal.App.5th 1223, 1228-1229.) The Court
is of course unable to set the amount of these not-yet-incurred costs at this
time; Plaintiffs may at any time in the future file a motion to set the amount
of the costs. 
Turning to Defendants’ ex parte application
to continue trial, it is denied. Substitution of counsel on the eve of trial is
not good cause for a continuance, or for a reopening of discovery (whether
expert discovery or fact discovery). Nor can a party force a continuance by
bringing in new counsel with a conflict on the date set for trial in this
matter.
Conclusion
The Court will hear from counsel.
The Court’s tentative ruling is as follows:
The Court GRANTS the motion of
IHGM to withdraw its Responses to Requests for Admission Nos. 18 and 27 and to
replace them with the proposed amended verified responses attached as Exhibit E
to IHGM’s application.
The Court GRANTS IHGM leave to serve the
amended verified responses within 5 days.
The Court REOPENS DISCOVERY for the limited
purpose of allowing Plaintiffs to conduct further discovery on the matters
covered by the RFA Responses.
The Court CONTINUES trial to _______________________.
Except as set forth above, the Court does not reopen discovery or reset any
discovery deadlines.
Third, the Court ORDERS that the reasonable
costs of the additional discovery, including attorney’s fees, will be borne by
IHGM. 
Moving
Party is to give notice.