 Case Number:  21STCV39942    Hearing Date:   May 20, 2024    Dept:  29 Motion to Intervene
filed by Swift Financial, LLC
Motion to Enforce Equitable Distribution of Settlement Agreement filed by Swift
Financial, LLC.
Tentative
The Court will hear from counsel on all
issues raised in the papers, including, but not limited to, the following.
No. 1. 
Is it necessary for the judgment creditor to intervene?  Code of Civil Procedure section 708.430,
subdivision (b), seems to say that, at least in some circumstances, it is not
necessary.
No. 2. 
If intervention is necessary, the Court recognizes that the motion to
intervene is unopposed.  Nonetheless,
certain procedural requirements are not satisfied.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 387, subd. (c).)
No. 3. 
Code of Civil Procedure section 708.440 provides that once a judgment
creditor files a notice of lien, the parties to the litigation cannot enter
into a settlement agreement “without the written consent of the judgment
creditor or authorization by order of the court.”  The parties appear to have violated this
provision by entering into a settlement agreement without the consent of the
judgment creditor or authorization from the court.  What is the consequence?  Should the Court treat the briefing on this
contested motion as, in effect, including a request of the judgment debtor for
authorization from the Court?  Does
everyone agree with that approach, and will it allow everyone to be heard fully
on all issues?  The Court is not
interested in evaluating form over substance, as long as all parties agree that
that they have had a full and fair opportunity to be heard on all issues.
No. 4. 
What is the strongest authority that Swift Financial can offer as to why
the Court should exercise its discretion in the manner it requests, which would
appear to allow it to obtain proceeds that are subject to a more senior lien
(the attorney lien)?
Background
On October 29, 2021, Armen Voskerchyan
(“Plaintiff”) filed a complaint against Serj Homayak Marganian (“Defendant”)
and Does 1 to 20, asserting causes of action for motor vehicle negligence and
general negligence arising out of an automobile accident occurring on July 14,
2020, at or near the intersection of Buena Vista Street and Riverside Drive in
Burbank.
On March 14, 2022, non-party Swift Financial,
LLC (“Swift”) filed a notice of lien relating to a money judgment entered in Case
No. 20BBCP00178 in the amount of $109,836.00.
On February 2, 2024, Defendant filed a notice
of settlement of the entire case.
On April 9, 2024, Swift filed two motions in
this case.
First, Swift filed a motion for leave to intervene.
No opposition has been filed.
Second, Swift filed a motion to enforce
equitable distribution of settlement agreement. Plaintiff filed an opposition
on April 25, and Swift filed a reply on April 30.  
The motion was originally set for hearing on
May 8 and was continued to May 20.
Two other cases arising out of the same
accident were filed and deemed related (Case Nos. 21STLC02415
and 22STCV21568).  Both of those other
cases have been dismissed.
Legal Standard
Intervention
“An intervention takes place when a¿nonparty,
deemed an intervenor, becomes¿a party to an action or proceeding between other
persons” and joins a plaintiff in seeking relief, unites with a defendant in
resisting the claims of a plaintiff, or demands relief adverse to both a
plaintiff and a defendant.  (Code Civ.
Proc., § 387, subd. (b).)
Subdivision (d) of Code of Civil Procedure
section 387 provides as follows:
(1) “The court
shall, upon timely application, permit a nonparty to intervene in the action or
proceeding if either of the following conditions is satisfied: 
(A) A provision of
law confers an unconditional right to intervene. 
(B) The person
seeking intervention claims an interest relating to the property or transaction
that is the subject of the action and that person is so situated that the
disposition of the action may impair or impede that person’s ability to protect
that interest, unless the person’s interest is adequately represented by one or
more of the existing parties.
(2) The court may,
upon timely application, permit a nonparty to intervene in the action or
proceeding if the person has an interest in the matter in litigation, or in the
success of either of the parties, or an interest against both.”
“It is well settled that the intervener's interest
in the matter in litigation must be direct, not consequential, and that it must
be an interest which is proper to be determined in the action in which
intervention is sought.”¿(Simpson Redwood Co. v. State of California¿(1987)¿196
Cal.App.3d 1192, 1199-1200.)  To
establish a direct and immediate interest in the litigation for purposes of
permissive intervention, a non-party seeking intervention must show that he or
she stands to gain or lose by direct operation of the judgment, even if no
specific interest in the property or transaction at issue exists.¿ (Id.
at p. 1201.)  It is sufficient that there
is “a substantial probability” that the proposed intervenor’s interests will be
affected by the judgment.  (Timberidge¿Enterprises,
Inc. v. City of Santa Rosa¿(1978) 86 Cal.App.3d 873, 881-882.)
Procedurally, subdivision (c) of section 387
requires that a motion to intervene “shall include a copy of the proposed
complaint in intervention or answer in intervention and set forth the grounds
upon which intervention rests.”¿ 
In the specific context of a judgment creditor
seeking to intervene in an involving the judgment debtor, Code of Civil
Procedure section 708.430 provides:
(a) The court in which the action or
special proceeding is pending may permit a judgment creditor who has obtained a
lien under this article to intervene in the action or proceeding pursuant to Section 387.
(b) For the purposes of Sections 708.450 and 708.470,
a judgment creditor shall be deemed to be a party to the action or special
proceeding even though the judgment creditor has not become a party to the
action or proceeding under subdivision (a).
Enforcing Lien
“A judgment creditor who has a money judgment
against a judgment debtor who is a party to a pending action or special
proceeding may obtain a lien” under the provisions of Code of Civil Procedure 708.10
through 708.480.  (Code Civ. Proc., §
708.410, subd. (a).)  The lien is
obtained by filing and service a notice of lien and an abstract or copy of the
money judgment.  (Id., subds.
(b)-(c); see also Code Civ. Proc., § 708.420.)
Code of Civil Procedure section 708.440
provides, in relevant part:
(a) [U]nless the judgment creditor's
money judgment is first satisfied or the lien is released, the judgment
recovered in the action or special proceeding in favor of the judgment debtor
may not be enforced by a writ or otherwise, and no compromise, dismissal, settlement,
or satisfaction of the pending action or special proceeding or the judgment
procured therein may be entered into by or on behalf of the judgment debtor,
without the written consent of the judgment creditor or authorization by order
of the court obtained under subdivision (b).
(b) Upon application by
the judgment debtor, the court in which the action or special proceeding is
pending or the judgment procured therein is entered may, in its discretion,
after a hearing, make an order described in subdivision (a) that may include such
terms and conditions as the court deems necessary. The application for an order
under this subdivision shall be made on noticed motion. The notice of motion
shall be served on the judgment creditor. Service shall be made personally or
by mail.
Code
of Civil Procedure section 708.470, subdivisions (a) and (b), provide:
(a) If the judgment debtor is entitled to
money or property under the judgment in the action or special proceeding and a
lien created under this article exists, upon application of any party to the
action or special proceeding, the court may order that the judgment debtor's
rights to money or property under the judgment be applied to the satisfaction
of the lien created under this article as ordered by the court. Application for
an order under this section shall be on noticed motion. The notice of motion shall
be served on all other parties. Service shall be made personally or by mail.
(b) If the judgment
determines that the judgment debtor has an interest in property, the court may
order the party having custody or control of the property not to transfer the
property until it can be levied upon or otherwise applied to the satisfaction
of the lien created under this article.
The creditor applying for an order under section
708.470 has the burden of persuading the court that the application should be
granted and the judgment proceeds applied to satisfy the creditor’s lien, notwithstanding
a potentially senior lien. (Brown v. Super. Ct. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th
320, 334-335.) 
“Other things
being equal, different liens upon the same property have priority according to
the time of their creation ….”  (Civ.
Code, § 2987.)
Discussion
The Court will
hear from counsel.
Conclusion
The Court will hear
from counsel.