  Case Number:  23CHCV02586    Hearing Date:   February 29, 2024    Dept:  F47 Dept. F47
Date: 2/29/24
Case #23CHCV02586
 
MOTION TO
STRIKE
 
Motion filed on 10/2/23.
 
MOVING PARTY: Defendant Frankie Florez
RESPONDING PARTY: Plaintiffs Larry Tran and Cirena Torres
NOTICE: ok
 
RELIEF REQUESTED: An order striking
the punitive damages prayers as part of the causes of action in Plaintiffs’
complaint.

 
RULING: The motion is granted with 30 days leave
to amend.  
 
SUMMARY OF FACTS & PROCEDURAL HISTORY
 
This action arises out of a dispute between neighboring
property owners regarding trees. 
Plaintiffs Larry Tran and Cirena Torres (Plaintiffs) contend that
neighboring property owner, Defendant Frankie Florez (Florez) improperly
cut/damaged trees on their property, has defamed them with regard to the tree
situation, etc.
 
On 8/28/23, Plaintiffs, representing themselves, filed
this action against Florez and Kings Tree Service, Inc. alleging causes of
action for: (1) Injury to Timber – Civil Code 3346(a), (2) Injury to Timber – Civil
Code 733, (3) Private Nuisance – Civil Code 3479, (4) Negligence, Negligence
Per Se & Gross Negligence, (5) Invasion of Privacy – Civil Code 1708.8, (6)
Civil Penalties Pursuant to Penal Code 637.2 (against Florez only), (7)
Defamation Per Se – Los Angeles County Sheriff’s Department (by Tran against
Florez), (8) Defamation Per Se – Los Angeles County Fire Department (by  Tran against Florez), (9) Defamation Per Se –
Property Management Company (by Tran against Florez), (10) Defamation Per Se –
Independent Gardener (by Tran against Florez), (11) Defamation Per Se –
Neighbors Across the Street (by Tran against Florez), (12) Intentional
Infliction of Emotional Distress and (13) Negligent Infliction of Emotional
Distress.  The 1st – 12th
causes of action include claims for punitive damages as does the prayer for
relief.  
 
On 10/2/23, Florez filed and served the instant motion
seeking an order striking the punitive damages prayers as part of the causes of
action in Plaintiffs’ complaint.  Plaintiffs
have opposed the motion and Florez has filed a reply to the opposition.  The parties dispute whether the other met
their respective meet and confer obligations. 
(See Wainfield Decl.; Tran Decl.; Torres Decl.).  Since failing to adequately meet and confer
is not grounds to grant or deny the motion, the Court will rule on the merits.  CCP 435.5(a)(4).  
 
ANALYSIS
 
Civil Code 3294 provides, in relevant part: 
 
“(a) In an action for the breach of
an obligation not arising from contract, where it is proven by clear and
convincing evidence that the defendant has been guilty of oppression, fraud, or
malice, the plaintiff, in addition to the actual damages, may recover damages
for the sake of example and by way of punishing the defendant.
 
. .
. 
 
 
(c) As used in this section, the
following definitions shall apply:
(1) ‘Malice’ means conduct which is
intended by the defendant to cause injury to the plaintiff or despicable
conduct which is carried on by the defendant with a willful and conscious
disregard of the rights or safety of others.
(2) ‘Oppression’ means despicable
conduct that subjects a person to cruel and unjust hardship in conscious
disregard of that person's rights.
(3) ‘Fraud’ means an intentional
misrepresentation, deceit, or concealment of a material fact known to the
defendant with the intention on the part of the defendant of thereby depriving
a person of property or legal rights or otherwise causing injury.”
 
In order to state a claim for punitive damages, a
complaint must include specific factual allegations showing that the
defendant’s conduct was oppressive, fraudulent or malicious.  Today’s IV, Inc. (2022) 83 CA5th 1137,
1193; Brousseau (1977) 73 CA3d 864, 872.
 
Here, the complaint does not include the necessary
specific factual allegations to support a finding that Defendant’s conduct was
fraudulent, oppressive or malicious.  (See
Complaint, generally).  As such, the
claims for punitive damages contained in the 1st through 12th
causes of action are insufficiently pled. 

 
CONCLUSION
 
The motion is granted. 
Due to the liberal policy of allowing leave to amend and since this is
only the original complaint, Plaintiffs are given 30 days leave to amend to try
to cure the defects in their pleading.   
 