  Case Number:  21STCV26138    Hearing Date:   May 16, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


May
  16, 2024




CASE NUMBER:


21STCV26138




MOTIONS:  


Motion
  to Vacate Dismissal




MOVING PARTY:


Plaintiff Francesco Ferrario 




OPPOSING PARTY:


Defendant
  Bjorn David Lund



 
BACKGROUND
 
On July 15, 2021, Plaintiff Francesco Ferrario (“Plaintiff”) filed a
complaint against Defendants Bjorn David Lund (“Defendant”) and Does 1 to 10
for negligence from a motor vehicle accident. 
 
On March 4, 2024, the case was called for trial at 8:30 a.m. and counsel
for Plaintiff did not appear. Plaintiff had been ordered to appear personally. Upon
oral request by Defendant, the Court dismissed the complaint without prejudice
pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 581(b)(5). (Min. Order, 3/4/24.) 
 
On March 4, 2024, Plaintiff filed the instant motion to vacate the
dismissal. Defendant opposes and Plaintiff replies. 
 
LEGAL
STANDARD
 
Under Code
of Civil Procedure section 473(b), the Court may relieve a party from a
dismissal taken against him through his mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or
excusable neglect.  This application must
be filed no more than six months after entry of the order from which relief is
sought, and must contain an affidavit of fault demonstrating the moving party’s
mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or excusable neglect. 
 
A mistake
is a basis for relief under section 473 when by reason of the mistake a party
failed to make a timely response.  Surprise occurs when a party is
unexpectedly placed in a position to his injury without any negligence of his
own. Excusable neglect is a basis for relief when the party has shown some
reasonable excuse for the default.  (Credit Managers Association of
California v. National Independent Business Alliance (1984) 162 Cal.App.3d
1166, 1173; Davis v. Thayer (1980) 113 Cal.App.3d 892, 905.)  Under
Code of Civil Procedure section 473, the moving party bears the burden of
demonstrating an excusable ground, such as fraud or mistake, justifying a
court’s vacating a judgment.  (Basinger v. Roger & Wells (1990)
220 Cal.App.3d 16, 23–24.)   
 
Relief under
this section is mandatory when based on an attorney affidavit of fault;
otherwise, it is discretionary. (Id.) However mandatory relief is only
available when a party fails to oppose a dismissal motion (“which are
procedurally equivalent to a default”). (Leader v. Health Industries of America, Inc. (2001) 89
Cal.App.4th 603, 620.) The mandatory relief provision
does not apply to dismissals for “failure to prosecute [citations omitted], dismissals
for failure to serve a complaint within three years [citations omitted],
dismissals based on running of the statute of limitations [citations omitted],
and voluntary dismissals entered pursuant to settlement [citations omitted].”
(Id.) 
 
“Whenever the court grants relief from a default, default
judgment, or dismissal based on any of the provisions of this section, the
court may do any of the following: 
(A) Impose a penalty of no greater than one thousand
dollars ($1,000) upon an offending attorney or party. 
(B) Direct that an offending attorney pay an amount no
greater than one thousand dollars ($1,000) to the State Bar Client Security
Fund. 
(C) Grant other relief as is appropriate.” 
 
(Code Civ. Proc. 473(c)(1).)  
 
DISCUSSION
 
            Procedurally,
the present motion is timely because it was filed within six months after the
case was dismissed. 
 
            The
Declaration of Plaintiff’s counsel, Eamon Jafari, states that trial in this
case was originally set for February 23, 2024. (Jafari Decl. ¶ 2.) However,
because there were no trial courts available that day, trial was continued to
March 4, 2024. Plaintiff learned that one of his experts was unavailable that
day and conferred with Defendant about continuing trial. (Id. ¶ 5.) It
appears the parties agreed to continue trial orally at the March 4, 2024 trial
date, for September 18, 2024. (Id. ¶ 6–7.) Plaintiff’s co-counsel, Jacob
Gould agreed to appear at the March 4, 2024 trial since Mr. Jafari had to
appear at a trial setting conference at the Pomona Courthouse at 9:00 a.m. that
day. (Id. ¶ 8.) However, on March 4, 2024, at 6:54 a.m., Mr. Gould
contacted Mr. Jafari informing him he was ill and could not personally appear.
(Id. ¶ 9; Gould Decl. ¶ 3.) Mr. Jafari then drove to the Spring Street
Courthouse. At 8:25 a.m., while in traffic, Mr. Jafari attempted to appear
remotely using the LA Court Connect App but heard no audio. (Jafari Decl. ¶
11.) As a result, Mr. Jafari was unable to timely appear in-person. (Id.
¶ 16.) 
 
            In
opposition, Defendant questions the credibility of Plaintiff’s counsels’
account. However, Plaintiff’s counsel declared under penalty of perjury that
due to a last-minute illness, he was unable to appear for trial in-person, thus
causing the dismissal. Therefore, the Court finds that this scenario involved
surprise due to the abrupt nature of the illness. Defendant seeks $6,404.22 in
fees and costs for appearing at the trial and for filing this opposition. This
amount exceeds the values in section 473(c) and appears to reflect fifteen (15)
hours to draft this opposition and three hours appearing at the trial. (Opp.,
8.) Based on the above, the Court declines to impose a penalty, since it
appears the non-appearance was due to an unforeseen circumstance. 
 
CONCLUSION AND
ORDER
 
Therefore, the Court GRANTS Plaintiff’s motion to vacate the dismissal. Trial
is set for July 8, 2024 at 8:30 a.m. in Department 32 of the Spring Street
Courthouse. All trial counsel are ordered to appear personally at 8:30 a.m. 
 
All discovery remains closed.
 
Plaintiff to provide notice and file a proof of service of such.
 