 Case Number:  23LBCV00268    Hearing Date:   November 14, 2023    Dept:  S27  
1.    
Background
Facts
Plaintiff, Raul Field Escandon
filed this action against Defendants, Universal Iron Works, Appleby Property
Management, Olive Crest Homeowners Association, Ara Agopian, and HOA Board of
Directors on 2/21/23.  Plaintiff’s operative
First Amended Complaint includes various causes of action and spans 78
pages.  Plaintiff seeks an injunction
providing for various forms of relief, and also seeks compensatory
damages.  
 
2.     Demurrer
(Defendants, Appleby Property Management, Olive Crest Homeowners Association,
and Ara Agopian)
a.    
Legal Standard on Demurrer
A demurrer is a pleading used to test
the legal sufficiency of other pleadings. It raises issues of law, not fact,
regarding the form or content of the opposing party’s pleading.  It is not the function of the demurrer to
challenge the truthfulness of the complaint; and for purpose of the ruling on
the demurrer, all facts pleaded in the complaint are assumed to be true, however
improbable they may be.
 
A demurrer can be used only to
challenge defects that appear on the face of the pleading under attack; or from
matters outside the pleading that are judicially noticeable. Blank v. Kirwan 39
Cal.3d 311 (1985). No other extrinsic evidence can be considered (i.e., no
“speaking demurrers”). A demurrer is brought under CCP § 430.10 [grounds], §
430.30 [as to any matter on its face or from which judicial notice may be
taken], and § 430.50(a) [can be taken to the entire complaint or any cause of
action within].  Specifically, a demurrer
may be brought per CCP § 430.10(e) if insufficient facts are stated to support the
cause of action asserted.  Per CCP
§430.10(a) a demurrer may be brought where the court has no jurisdiction of the
subject of the cause of action alleged in the pleading.  Furthermore, demurrer for uncertainty will be
sustained only where the complaint is so bad that the defendant cannot reasonably
respond.  CCP § 430.10(f).  
 
However, in construing the
allegations, the court is to give effect to specific factual allegations that
may modify or limit inconsistent general or conclusory allegations. Financial
Corporation of America v. Wilburn, 189 Cal.App.3rd 764, 769 (1987). And, if the
facts pled in the complaint are inconsistent with facts which are incorporated
by reference from exhibits attached to the complaint, the facts in the
incorporated exhibits control. Further, irrespective of the name or label given
to a cause of action by the plaintiff, a general demurrer must be overruled if
the facts as pled in the body of the complaint state some valid claim for relief.
Special demurrers are not allowed in limited jurisdiction courts. (CCP § 92(c).)
 
Leave to amend must be allowed
where there is a reasonable possibility of successful amendment. Goodman v.
Kennedy, 18 Cal.3d 335, 348 (1976). The burden is on the complainant to show
the Court that a pleading can be amended successfully. (Id.) 
 
Finally, CCP section 430.41
requires that “[b]efore filing a demurrer pursuant to this chapter, the
demurring party shall meet and confer in person or by telephone with the party
who filed the pleading that is subject to demurrer for the purpose of determining
whether an agreement can be reached that would resolve the objections to be
raised in the demurrer.” (CCP §430.41(a).) The parties are to meet and confer
at least five days before the date the responsive pleading is due. (CCP §430.41(a)(2).)
Thereafter, the demurring party shall file and serve a declaration detailing
their meet and confer efforts. (CCP §430.41(a)(3).)
 
b.    
Meet
and Confer
Defense Counsel declares he and
Plaintiff met and conferred telephonically for 24 minutes, but were unable to
resolve the issues presented by way of the pleading challenges.  The Court will therefore rule on the demurrer
on its merits.
 
c.     General
Note
The first fifty pages of Plaintiff’s
FAC set forth the factual basis of Plaintiff’s claims.  Much of the fifty pages is evidentiary in
nature and therefore improper as a pleading, which should set forth only the ultimate
facts giving rise to the relief requested. 
See C.A. v. William S. Hart Union High School Dist. (2012) 53 Cal.4th
861, 872.  
 
Plaintiff’s FAC alleges six purported
causes of action against Defendants.  None
of the six causes of action is recognized under California law.  The six causes of action are captioned:
·        
Arbitration provisions in the Olive Crest
CC&Rs are “Unreasonable” because the 12-Unit Condominium HOA and Board of Directors
have become unviable/dysfunctional, denying Plaintiff’s Property Rights for
which declaratory and injunctive relief is needed;
·        
The Defendants’ Fence Bolts Trespassed into Plaintiff’s
Unit #1 causing severe damage for which they are liable;
·        
The Defendants’ negligent actions actually and/or
proximately caused Plaintiff’s injuries for which they are liable;
·        
HOA Board Directors Agopian’s, Huerta’s, and
Garcia’s continuing actions in violation and/or failure to enforce HOA
Governing documents Provisions and State Statutes cause a nuisance making the
HOA dysfunctional, warranting declaratory and injunctive relief;
·        
Actions by Agopian, Huerta, and Garcia, as HOA Board
Directors, went against HOA Governing Documents Constituting Abuse of Authority,
and were “arbitrary, capricious, an abuse of discretion, or otherwise not in
accordance with laws,” so “much be set aside”;
·        
HOA Directors Agopian’s, Huerta’s, and Garcia’s
willful and intentional negligence, harassment, and/or malice caused Plaintiff’s
injuries, so they are Individually Liable;
·        
Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress
actually and proximately caused by the Defendants on Plaintiff through willful
and intentional negligence, harassment, and/or malice.  
 
The Court will do its best, in the discussion
below, to determine what recognized causes of action Plaintiff is attempting to
plead, and to determine whether he has adequately done so.
d.     Timeliness
of Demurrer
Plaintiff, in opposition to the demurrer,
argues Defendants did not timely file their demurrer, and therefore the Court
should summarily overrule the challenge. 
Plaintiff contends he served the FAC on Defendants on 7/10/23 and
Defendants did not file the challenge until 8/11/23, which is 32 days after
service.  Plaintiff filed his FAC on
7/11/23, and the proof of service indicates he served it, by email, on
7/10/23.  
 
CCP §1010.6(a)(3)(B) makes clear
that, whenever a document is served by electronic service, the time to respond
thereto is extended by two court days. 
Defendants’ demurrer was therefore timely filed 32 days after they were
served with the FAC by email.
 
e.     Verification
of Demurrer
Plaintiff also argues the demurrer
is not verified and should not be considered. 
As discussed above, a demurrer is a pleading challenge that contends the
operative complaint, on its face, fails to state a cause of action.  There is no requirement that a demurrer be
verified.  Indeed, a demurrer cannot be
based on any facts outside the four corners of the pleading, and therefore verification
of a demurrer would be nonsensical.
 
f.      IDR
Civil Code §5950 is found in
Division Four, Part 5, Chapter 10 of the Civil Code.  Division Four is entitled General
Provisions.  Part 5 is entitled Common Interest
Developments.  Chapter 10 is entitled
Dispute Resolution and Enforcement.  §5950
provides:
(a) At the time of commencement of
an enforcement action, the party commencing the action shall file with the
initial pleading a certificate stating that one or more of the following
conditions are satisfied:
(1) Alternative dispute resolution
has been completed in compliance with this article.
(2) One of the other parties to the
dispute did not accept the terms offered for alternative dispute resolution.
(3) Preliminary or temporary
injunctive relief is necessary.
(b) Failure to file a certificate
pursuant to subdivision (a) is grounds for a demurrer or a motion to strike
unless the court finds that dismissal of the action for failure to comply with
this article would result in substantial prejudice to one of the parties.
 
Defendants demur to the entire
action, contending Plaintiff failed to file the required certificate.  Plaintiff, in opposition to the demurrer,
contends his FAC, at 2:9-13, 48:18-49:9, and 72:1-9 sufficiently alleges
compliance with the Civil Code.  At
2:9-13, Plaintiff alleges, “Pursuant to Civil Code (“CC”) §5950, Plaintiff made
significant alternative dispute resolution (“ADR”) efforts and will continue
doing so.  However, at this time “One of
the other parties to the dispute did not accept the terms offered for [ADR]”.  Additionally, “Preliminary or temporary
injunctive relief is necessary” as part of the remedy.  A certificate pursuant to CC §5950(a) is
being filed herewith.
 
At page 72, Plaintiff provides a
certificate stating the above.  
 
The problem with Plaintiff’s
allegations is that this is his First Amended Complaint.  His original complaint was silent in this
regard.  Plaintiff was required, per Code,
to engage in these efforts PRE-filing of his complaint.  At minimum, he needs to allege he engaged in
these efforts BEFORE he filed his complaint. 
He never alleges he did so. 
Plaintiff was required, per Code, to allege compliance prior to
COMMENCEMENT of his action.  
 
The Court has already denied
Plaintiff’s requests for temporary or preliminary injunctive relief.  The Court therefore finds no “substantial
prejudice” would result if it sustained the demurrer on this ground.  Plaintiff is free to pursue IDR in good faith
and then re-file any claims if IDR is not successful.  The demurrer on this ground is sustained.  Because this is a purely legal issue, leave
to amend is denied.
 
g.     Additional
Issues
The Court declines to rule on the
remaining issues raised by way of the demurrer, as doing so is not necessary to
a resolution of the merits of the demurrer. 

 
3.     Motion
to Strike
Defendants’ motion to strike is
moot in light of the ruling on the demurrer.
 
4.     Demurrer
(Defendant, Universal Ironworks Services, LLC)
a.    
Meet and Confer
Defense Counsel declares he met and
conferred telephonically and in subsequent correspondence with Plaintiff, but
the issues were not resolved.  
 
b.    
Timing of Demurrer
Plaintiff argues he served the FAC
on Defendant on 7/10/23 and Defendant did not file the demurrer until 8/28/23,
49 days later.  Defendant, in reply, correctly
notes that the Court heard and granted its motion to quash on 7/27/23, which
rendered the 7/10/23 service of the FAC improper and moot.  The demurrer was timely filed less than 30
days after Defense Counsel accepted service of the FAC on 7/28/23.  
 
c.     Verification
As with Co-Defendants’ demurrer,
above, Plaintiff again argues the demurrer is not verified.  Again, a demurrer need not be verified, and
rests entirely on the allegations of the operative pleading itself.
 
d.     Causes
of Action Pled against Defendant
Plaintiff’s FAC includes the
second, third, and seventh causes of action against Defendant.  As noted above, these causes of action are
for:
·        
The Defendants’ Fence Bolts Trespassed into Plaintiff’s
Unit #1 causing severe damage for which they are liable;
·        
The Defendants’ negligent actions actually and/or
proximately caused Plaintiff’s injuries for which they are liable;
·        
Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress
actually and proximately caused by the Defendants on Plaintiff through willful
and intentional negligence, harassment, and/or malice.  
 
e.         Second Cause of Action
Plaintiff’s second cause of action
is entitled “The Defendants’ Fence Bolts Trespassed into Plaintiff’s Unit #1
causing severe damage for which they are liable.”  The Court presumes this cause of action is intended
to be one for trespass.  Defendant demurs
to the cause of action, contending Plaintiff cannot state a claim for trespass
because he admits the bolts were attached to the exterior of his unit, and
pursuant to Civil Code §4095, the exterior of the units in a condominium
building are owned by the association, not by the individual owners.
 
The crux of Plaintiff’s cause of
action is that the effects of the fence were felt inside of his unit.  See, for example, ¶2 of the FAC, alleging, “On
the Olive Crest building end of the fence Universal set the last post differently,
allegedly not following standard practice, by bolting it against the exterior wall
the interior side of which is within Plaintiff’s Unit #1 causing Unit #1’s
interior walls and windows in Kitchen and Dining Room to vibrate and ‘rumble’
every time the steel fence gate opened and closed.”  
 
Thus, the question before the Court
is whether a non-physical intrusion, such as vibration, noise, etc., can
constitute a trespass.  Because neither
party briefed the issue, the Court briefly researched it.  The Court found Intel Corp. v. Hamidi (2003)
30 Cal.4th 1342, wherein the California Supreme Court made clear that
a nonphysical intrusion can constitute a nuisance, but cannot constitute a trespass.  
 
Because Plaintiff has alleged purely
nonphysical intrusion into his unit, the demurrer to the trespass cause of
action is sustained without leave to amend.
 
f.      Third
Cause of Action
The Court presumes Plaintiff’s
third cause of action, entitled “The Defendants’ negligent actions actually and/or
proximately caused Plaintiff’s injuries for which they are liable,” is one for
negligence.  
 
Defendant demurs to the cause of
action, contending Plaintiff failed to allege duty or breach.  
 
Defendant’s first contention is
that Plaintiff failed to allege duty. 
Defendant contends Plaintiff alleges Defendant was hired by Appleby,
which is the property management company for the HOA, and therefore any duty
ran only between Defendant and Appleby and did not run to Plaintiff.  Defendant cites no authority to support this position.  The query before the Court is whether a
defendant who contracts with one party and then performs the contract in a
manner that negatively affects a third party can be held liable for negligence.
 It seems logical that the answer would
be yes.  Defendant is alleged to have
performed the contract in a manner inconsistent with industry standards, and its
performance on the contract is alleged to have caused Plaintiff, a person who
would clearly be affected by the performance of the contractual duties,
damages.  
 
Defendant’s second argument is that
Plaintiff failed to allege breach of any duty. 
Again, however, Plaintiff alleges Defendant was hired to build a fence,
but did so in a manner not consistent with industry standards, causing
Plaintiff damages.  While this is a
fact-intensive issue, at the pleading stage it appears Plaintiff has stated a
cause of action for negligence.  The demurrer
is overruled.
 
g.     Seventh
Cause of Action
Plaintiff’s seventh cause of action
is entitled “Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress actually and proximately
caused by the Defendants on Plaintiff through willful and intentional negligence,
harassment, and/or malice.”  The Court presumes
this is intended to be a cause of action for intentional infliction of emotional
distress.  
 
The elements of a cause of action
for intentional infliction of emotional distress are (1) outrageous conduct by
the defendant, (2) intention to cause or reckless disregard of the probability
of causing emotional distress, (3) severe emotional suffering, and (4) actual
and proximate causation of the emotional distress.  Conduct is extreme and outrageous when it
exceeds all bounds of decency usually tolerated by a decent society, and is of
a nature which is especially calculated to cause, and does cause, mental
distress.  Liability does not extend to
mere insults, indignities, threats, annoyances, petty oppressions, or other
trivialities.  (Fisher v. San Pedro
Peninsula Hospital (1989) 214 Cal.App.3d 590.)
 

The California Supreme Court has
held that a defendant’s actions could be characterized as
"outrageous" for purposes of tort liability for intentional
infliction of emotional distress, if he “(1) abuses a relation or position
which gives him power to damage the plaintiff's interest; (2) knows the
plaintiff is susceptible to injuries through mental distress; or (3) acts
intentionally or unreasonably with the recognition that the acts are likely to
result in illness through mental distress.” 
(Agarwal v. Johnson (1979) 25 Cal.3d 932, 946 [overruled on other
grounds].)
 
 Severe emotional distress means “emotional
distress of such substantial quality or enduring quality that no reasonable
[person] in civilized society should be expected to endure it.” (Girard v. Ball
(1981) 125 Cal.App.3d 772, 787 788.)
 
Plaintiff failed to plead extreme
and outrageous conduct per the above standard. 
The demurrer is sustained without leave to amend.    
 
5.     Motion
to Strike
Defendant moves to strike Plaintiff’s
prayer for punitive damages and related allegations.  The motion is granted for the reasons stated
in connection with the demurrer to the IIED cause of action.  Plaintiff has pled, at most, a negligence
claim.  His allegations do not rise to
the level of malice, fraud, or oppression. 
Because it does not appear the defect could be cured, leave to amend is
denied.
 
6.     Conclusion
Defendants, Appleby, et al’s
demurrer is sustained without leave to amend. 
Their motion to strike is moot.  
 
Defendant, Universal’s demurrer to
the second and seventh causes of action is sustained without leave to
amend.  Its demurrer to the third cause
of action is overruled.  Its motion to
strike is granted without leave to amend. 
Universal is ordered to file an answer to the FAC, with the second and
seventh causes of action and punitive damages allegations deemed stricken,
within ten days.  
7.     Case
Management Conference
The parties are reminded that there
is a CMC on calendar concurrently with the hearing on the above motion.  The Court asks the parties to make arrangements
to appear remotely at the hearing on the demurrers, motions and the CMC.  