 Case Number:  23LBCV00243    Hearing Date:   November 14, 2023    Dept:  S27 1.    
Background
Facts
Plaintiffs, Loreen
Avakian and Jeffrey Garza filed this action against Defendant, Wells Fargo Bank,
N.A. on 2/08/23.  On 6/01/23, they filed their
operative First Amended Complaint, which includes causes of action for wrongful
foreclosure, violation of the homeowners’ bill of rights, violation of BPC §17200,
et seq., intentional misrepresentation, unjust enrichment, and fraud.  The crux of the FAC is that Plaintiffs
obtained a loan secured by a deed of trust from Defendant, and while the
parties were communicating in an attempt to modify the loan, First American,
the trustee on the deed, recorded a Notice of Default and Election to Sell.  Plaintiff alleges Wells Fargo made numerous representations
that the loan modification request was being considered and that the sale had
been suspended, but the sale went forward in the course of these discussions
and without further notice.  
 
2.    
Prior
Hearing
The Court was
originally scheduled to hear this demurrer on 9/12/23.  Prior to the hearing, the Court issued a
tentative ruling sustaining the demurrer without leave to amend in light of
Plaintiff’s failure to oppose the demurrer. 
Plaintiff appeared at the hearing and the parties agreed to permit a
continuance of the hearing so Plaintiff could file opposition to the demurrer.  The Court continued the hearing to 11/14/23.  
 
3.    
Demurrer 
a.     Legal
Standard on Demurrer
A demurrer is a pleading used to test
the legal sufficiency of other pleadings. It raises issues of law, not fact,
regarding the form or content of the opposing party’s pleading.  It is not the function of the demurrer to
challenge the truthfulness of the complaint; and for purpose of the ruling on
the demurrer, all facts pleaded in the complaint are assumed to be true, however
improbable they may be.
 
A demurrer can be used only to
challenge defects that appear on the face of the pleading under attack; or from
matters outside the pleading that are judicially noticeable. Blank v. Kirwan 39
Cal.3d 311 (1985). No other extrinsic evidence can be considered (i.e., no
“speaking demurrers”). A demurrer is brought under CCP § 430.10 [grounds], §
430.30 [as to any matter on its face or from which judicial notice may be
taken], and § 430.50(a) [can be taken to the entire complaint or any cause of
action within].  Specifically, a demurrer
may be brought per CCP § 430.10(e) if insufficient facts are stated to support the
cause of action asserted.  Per CCP
§430.10(a) a demurrer may be brought where the court has no jurisdiction of the
subject of the cause of action alleged in the pleading.  Furthermore, demurrer for uncertainty will be
sustained only where the complaint is so bad that the defendant cannot reasonably
respond.  CCP § 430.10(f).  
 
However, in construing the
allegations, the court is to give effect to specific factual allegations that
may modify or limit inconsistent general or conclusory allegations. Financial
Corporation of America v. Wilburn, 189 Cal.App.3rd 764, 769 (1987). And, if the
facts pled in the complaint are inconsistent with facts which are incorporated
by reference from exhibits attached to the complaint, the facts in the
incorporated exhibits control. Further, irrespective of the name or label given
to a cause of action by the plaintiff, a general demurrer must be overruled if
the facts as pled in the body of the complaint state some valid claim for relief.
Special demurrers are not allowed in limited jurisdiction courts. (CCP § 92(c).)
 
Leave to amend must be allowed
where there is a reasonable possibility of successful amendment. Goodman v.
Kennedy, 18 Cal.3d 335, 348 (1976). The burden is on the complainant to show
the Court that a pleading can be amended successfully. (Id.) 
 
Finally, CCP section 430.41
requires that “[b]efore filing a demurrer pursuant to this chapter, the
demurring party shall meet and confer in person or by telephone with the party
who filed the pleading that is subject to demurrer for the purpose of determining
whether an agreement can be reached that would resolve the objections to be
raised in the demurrer.” (CCP §430.41(a).) The parties are to meet and confer
at least five days before the date the responsive pleading is due. (CCP §430.41(a)(2).)
Thereafter, the demurring party shall file and serve a declaration detailing
their meet and confer efforts. (CCP §430.41(a)(3).)
 
b.    
Meet
and Confer
Defense Counsel, Michael Rapkine, declares the parties met and conferred
by telephone but were unable to resolve the issues presented by way of the
demurrer.  The Court therefore finds the meet
and confer requirement satisfied.    
 
c.     Opposition
The demurrer was originally
scheduled for hearing on 1/25/24.  On
7/10/23, both parties appeared for a Case Management Conference.  At the CMC, the Court moved the hearing on the
demurrer to 9/12/23.  All parties waived
notice of the date change.  Any opposition
to the demurrer was due on or before 8/29/23. 
Plaintiff did not file timely opposition to the demurrer, but appeared
at the hearing and the parties agreed to a continuance to permit timely
opposition.
 
Pursuant to CCP §1005(b), opposition
to the demurrer was due nine court days prior to the continued hearing date of
11/14/23.  Nine court days prior to
11/14/23 fell on 10/31/23.  Plaintiff
filed grossly untimely opposition on 11/07/23, only four court days prior to
the hearing and after the time for Defendant to file reply papers had lapsed.  The Court has read and considered the opposition
papers in light of the gravity of the ruling. 
  
 
d.     Request for Judicial Notice
Defendant seeks
judicial notice of various documents filed in state court, federal court,
bankruptcy court, and the Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals.  The RJN is granted.  
 
e.     Grounds for Demurrer
Defendant demurs
to the FAC on multiple grounds.  First,
it contends the entire FAC is barred by the doctrine of res judicata.  Second, it contends the entire FAC is
time-barred.  Third, it contends each individual
cause of action pled in the complaint suffers from fatal defects in addition to
the res judicata and SOL issues.  
 
f.      Res Judicata
Defendant, through
its request for judicial notice, provides evidence that Plaintiffs previously
filed a lawsuit in federal court seeking relief against Defendant arising out
of the alleged wrongful foreclosure that forms the basis of this action.  Wells Fargo moved to dismiss the lawsuit, and
the Federal District Court granted the motion. 
Plaintiffs appealed, and the Ninth Circuit affirmed the dismissal.  
 
Pursuant to Commissioner
v. Sunnen, 333 U.S. 591, 597 (1948), the doctrine of res judicata acts as a bar
to all claims that were previously asserted or could have been previously
asserted if a prior action results in a final judgment adverse to the
plaintiff.  Defendant clearly shows that
is the case here.  
 
Plaintiff, in opposition
to the demurrer, argues the prior dismissal was purely procedural in nature,
and therefore the dismissal with prejudice was improper, as it should have been
without prejudice.  Plaintiffs concede,
however, that they appealed the dismissal, and the Ninth Circuit affirmed.  If the dismissal was improper, Plaintiffs’
remedy was a further appeal.  Plaintiffs
cannot argue, at the trial court level in state court, that a federal court
dismissal and subsequent appeal were both wrongly decided.  
 
Notably, in
Federal Home Loan Bank of San Francisco v. Countrywide Financial Corp. (2013)
213 Cal.App.4th 1520, the Court of Appeals held that a plaintiff’s
decision to voluntarily dismiss a case with prejudice for strategic
non-substantive reasons still has res judicata effect.  
 
The demurrer is
therefore sustained on the ground that the case is barred by the doctrine of
res judicata.  
 
g.     Statute of Limitations
Similarly,
Defendant argues the case is barred by the statute of limitations.  Plaintiffs concede the statute of limitations
acts as a bar to their claims, but contend their case “relates back” to the
prior federal court filing.  Plaintiffs
cite the Federal Rules of Court to support their position.  The Federal Rules of Court do not apply in
this state court action.  Additionally, the
Court knows of no authority permitting use of the relation back doctrine to
save one case from the statute of limitations based on the filing of a prior
case that was dismissed with prejudice in a different court.  The Court therefore sustains the demurrer
without leave to amend on statute of limitations grounds as well.  
 
h.     Additional Grounds for Demurrer
The Court declines
to rule on the other issues presented on demurrer, as doing so is not necessary
to a final resolution of the matter.  The
demurrer is sustained without leave to amend on the ground that the FAC is
barred by the doctrine of res judicata and the statute of limitations.  All other asserted grounds for demurrer are
moot.  
 
Defendant is
ordered to give notice.
 
Parties who intend to submit
on this tentative must send an email to the court at gdcdepts27@lacourt.org indicating intention to submit on the tentative as
directed by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the tentative
and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed off
calendar.  If a party submits on the
tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must identify the
party submitting on the tentative. If any party does not submit on the
tentative, the party should make arrangements to appear remotely at the hearing
on this matter.   