 Case Number:  NC061338    Hearing Date:   November 14, 2023    Dept:  S27 1.     Background
Facts
Plaintiff, Parkview Village, LLC
filed this action against Defendants, Lisa Renee Marin, Diori Rafael Jones,
Dustin Anthony Chavis, Austin Maurice Johnson, A 2ND Look 4 You, and
Viva Fit for breach of contract, account stated, and unjust enrichment on
8/21/17.  Plaintiff’s complaint is for
monetary damages for breach of a commercial lease agreement.  
 
The Court, at Plaintiff’s request,
entered judgment by default against Defendants on 7/23/18.  The judgment is in the principal amount of
$32,930.00.  The judgment includes
prejudgment interest and costs.  The
judgment also includes an award of attorneys’ fees in the amount of $1337.90
based on the attorneys’ fees provision in the parties’ contract.  
 
2.     Motion
for Attorneys’ Fees
Judgment Creditor has been
attempting, since 7/23/18, to enforce the judgment.  Judgment Creditor’s attorney, Alexander
Haroonian, declares that Judgment Creditor has incurred attorneys’ fees and
costs in the amount of $12,259.15 in attempting to enforce the judgment.  Post-judgment attorney effort has included
attempting to take judgment debtor examinations of Chavis and Jones, opposing a
motion to vacate default judgment by Jones, and communicating with Johnson
concerning resolution of the judgment. 
Exhibit 5 to the moving papers is the billing statement for Haroonian’s
fees, which the Court has read and finds to show all fees were both necessarily
and reasonably incurred.  
 
The motion is granted.  CCP §§685.040, 1033.5(a)(10)(A), and the
parties’ lease, §27.  Plaintiff is
ordered to give notice.
 
Parties who intend to submit
on this tentative must send an email to the court at gdcdepts27@lacourt.org indicating intention to submit on the tentative as
directed by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the tentative
and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed off calendar.  If a party submits on the tentative, the
party’s email must include the case number and must identify the party
submitting on the tentative. If any party does not submit on the tentative, the
party should make arrangements to appear remotely at the hearing on this
matter.   