  Case Number:  20STCV43681    Hearing Date:   March 27, 2024    Dept:  52 Defendant
Flintridge Riding Club’s Motion to Compel Responses to Requests for Production
of Documents and Deposition
Defendant
Flintridge Riding Club moves compel plaintiff David Johnston to produce
documents requested in the notice of his deposition and testify further at
deposition.  One may move to compel the deposition of a party and move for production
of requested documents when that party fails to appear at deposition or produce
the requested documents “without having served a valid objection under Section
2025.410.”  (CCP § 2025.450(a).)
The fifth amended notice of plaintiff’s deposition
included requests for 23 categories of documents.  (Skinner Decl., Ex. A.)  Plaintiff did not object to those requests.  He did not produce any documents before his
deposition on February 6, 2024.  (Id.,
¶ 6.)  At his deposition, plaintiff
testified he possesses responsive documents but did not produce them.  (Id., ¶ 7, Ex. C.)  Defendant shows good cause to demand these
categories of documents.  The court
therefore will order plaintiff to produce responsive documents.  The court will also order plaintiff to
further testify at his deposition so defendant has an opportunity to examine
him about the documents.    
Sanctions
            Defendant
moves for $5,880 in sanctions against plaintiff.  “If a motion” to compel deposition or
production of documents specified in a deposition notice “is granted, the court
shall impose a monetary sanction … in favor of the party who noticed the
deposition and against the deponent or the party with whom the deponent is
affiliated, unless the court finds that the one subject to the sanction acted
with substantial justification or that other circumstances make the imposition
of the sanction unjust.”  (CCP §
2025.450(g)(1).)  
            The
court has no basis to find plaintiff acted with substantial justification.  Sanctions are just under the
circumstances.  Defendant, however, did
not reasonably incur $5,880 in expenses. 
That amount includes: 5.5 hours of attorney fees (at $300 hourly) for
preparing the motion; 8.5 hours of fees for a paralegal (at $120 hourly)
assisting in preparing the motion; 4.5 hours of attorney fees anticipated for
reviewing an opposition, drafting the reply, preparing for and attending the
hearing; 4.5 hours of fees for a paralegal reviewing the opposition and
assisting with the reply; and 6 hours preparing for and conducting the third
session of plaintiff’s deposition. 
(Skinner Decl., ¶¶ 9-11.)  
            Plaintiff
did not oppose the motion.  Defendant did
not file a reply.  Defendant cannot
recover sanctions for those anticipated attorney fees.  
Defendant also cannot recover fees for preparing for
and conducting the third session of plaintiff’s deposition.  A court may impose monetary sanctions for “the
reasonable expenses, including attorney’s fees, incurred by anyone as a result
of” the opposing party’s misuse of the discovery process.  (CCP § 2023.030(a).)  Defendant did not incur these fees as a
result of plaintiff’s misuse of the discovery process.  Defendant would have spent that time if
plaintiff had timely produced the documents before or at his deposition.  Moreover, courts cannot impose monetary
sanctions for future expenses because a party “had not ‘incurred’ those
expenses within the meaning of section 2023.030, subdivision (a).”  (Tucker v. Pacific Bell Mobile Services
(2010) 186 Cal.App.4th 1548, 1551.)  In
that case, the Court of Appeal held the trial court erred in “award[ing]
monetary sanctions related to anticipated costs of a future deposition.”  (Ibid.)
            The
court therefore will award defendant a total of $2,730 in sanctions: 5.5 hours
of attorney fees at $300 hourly, 8.5 hours of fees for a paralegal at $120
hourly, plus the $60 filing fee.     
Disposition
            Defendant
Flintridge
Riding Club’s motion to compel production of documents and further deposition
is granted.  
Plaintiff
David Johnston is ordered to produce all documents responsive to
requests for production Nos. 1-23 specified in the fifth amended notice of his
deposition within 20 days.  Plaintiff
David Johnston is ordered to appear and testify to complete his deposition
within 35 days.  Plaintiff David Johnston
is ordered to pay defendant Flintridge Riding Club $2,730 in sanctions
within 35 days.