 Case Number:  23STCV24193    Hearing Date:   March 27, 2024    Dept:  52 Defendants QTC Management, Inc., Leidos
Holdings, Inc., Leidos, Inc., Jeanette Johnson, and Marcella Aiken’s Demurrer
and Motion to Strike to Portions of Second Amended Complaint
Demurrer
Defendants QTC
Management, Inc. (QTC), Leidos Holdings, Inc., Leidos, Inc. (collectively,
Leidos), Jeanette Johnson, and Marcella Aiken demur to all causes of
action alleged against them by plaintiff Gayane Mkrtchyan’s second amended
complaint.
A. Leidos Entities
            The
Leidos entities demur on the basis that plaintiff does not allege sufficient
facts showing they employed her.  An “employer” includes “a person who
‘exercises control over the wages, hours, or working conditions’ of a
worker.”  (Duffey v. Tender Heart Home
Care Agency, LLC (2019) 31 Cal.App.5th 232, 246.)  Under FEHA, multiple entities may be liable
as “joint employers” (Vernon v. State of California
(2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 114, 125) or as an “integrated enterprise” (Laird v. Capital Cities/ABC, Inc.
(1998) 68 Cal.App.4th 727, 737, overruled on other grounds by Reid v.
Google, Inc. (2010) 50 Cal.4th 512, 524). 
Though “common ownership or control alone” is insufficient, a parent
corporation constitutes an employer when it exercises control over its
subsidiary, including its “ ‘day-to-day employment decisions.’ ”  (Id. at p. 738.)
            Plaintiff
alleges sufficient facts to support the legal conclusion that the Leidos
entities employed her.  She alleges she
began working for QTC in 1993.  (SAC, ¶
17.)  She further alleges “Leidos and
Leidos Holdings acquired QTC in 2019 and thereafter ran, managed and otherwise
fully controlled QTC’s operations.”  (Ibid.)  The primary allegations concern conduct
occurring after 2019, after the Leidos defendants “fully controlled” QTC.  
B.   Exhaustion of Administrative Remedies
The moving defendants argue plaintiff
failed to exhaust her administrative remedies as required for her FEHA claims.  “FEHA’s
exhaustion requirement should not be interpreted as a procedural gotcha.” 
(Clark v. Superior Court (2021) 62
Cal.App.5th 289, 293 (Clark).)  “The
administrative exhaustion requirement is satisfied if FEHA claims in a judicial
complaint are ‘ “like and reasonably related to” ’ those in the DFEH complaint
[citation] or ‘likely to be uncovered in the course of a DFEH investigation.’ ”  (Id. at p. 301.)  “ ‘The function of an administrative
complaint is to provide the basis for an investigation into an employee’s claim
of discrimination against an employer, and not to limit access to the courts.’
”  (Id. at p. 306.)  
Plaintiff’s administrative charges with the Civil
Rights Department (SAC, Exs. 1 & 2) were sufficient.  The amended complaint broadly asserts
numerous forms of FEHA violations, including the causes of action she alleges
now.  (Id., Ex. 2.)  That the complaints are conclusory does mean
plaintiff failed to exhaust her administrative remedies.  
Moreover, the Court of
Appeal has expressed skepticism about applying this requirement when “there
was no administrative investigation because the DFEH Complaint,
right-to-sue notice and judicial complaint were all filed on the same day.”  (Clark, supra, 62 Cal.App.5th at p. 310, fn. 23.)  Plaintiff’s CRD complaint indicates “an
immediate Right to Sue notice was requested.” 
(SAC, Ex. 1, p. 1.)  The amended
CRD complaint is dated October 3, 2023 (SAC, Ex. 2), the day before plaintiff
filed this action.  Finding plaintiff
failed to exhaust her administrative remedies would not serve the purposes of
that requirement.  It would only be a
“procedural gotcha.”  (Clark,
supra, at p. 293.)  
C. Adverse Employment Action
            Defendants
contend plaintiff fails to allege an adverse employment action as required for
her first, second, fifth, and sixth causes of action.  These causes of action require the
plaintiff to “ ‘demonstrate that he or she has been subjected to an adverse employment
action that materially affects the terms, conditions, or privileges of
employment.’ ”  (Francis v. City of
Los Angeles (2022) 81 Cal.App.5th 532, 540–541.)  “The ‘materiality’ test of adverse employment
action … looks to ‘the entire spectrum of employment actions that are
reasonably likely to adversely and materially affect an employee’s job
performance or opportunity for advancement in his or her career,’ and
the test ‘must be interpreted liberally ... with a reasonable appreciation of
the realities of the workplace....’ ”  (Patten
v. Grant Joint Union High School Dist. (2005) 134 Cal.App.4th 1378, 1389,
overruled on other grounds by Lawson v. PPG Architectural Finishes,
Inc. (2022) 12 Cal.5th 703.) 
            When
liberally construed, the second amended complaint alleges facts constituting an
adverse employment action.  “[A]dministrative
leave may constitute an adverse employment action.”  (Whitehall v. County of San Bernardino
(2017) 17 Cal.App.5th 352, 367.)  “
‘[W]hen an employee can work with a reasonable accommodation other than a leave
of absence, an employer may not require that the employee take a leave of
absence.’ ”  (Wallace v. County of
Stanislaus (2016) 245 Cal.App.4th 109, 134.)  Plaintiff alleges, “Beginning in May of 2023,
Mkrtchyan sought to work remotely, but she was never given that option or any
interactive process to determine accommodations.” (¶ 21.s.)  She also alleges, “All defendants ultimately denied
any accommodation that would allow plaintiff to return to work.”  (Ibid.)  Refusing
to permit an employee to return to work may materially affect the terms and
conditions of her employment and reduce her opportunity for advancement.
D.
National Origin and Ancestry Discrimination (1st Cause of Action)
Plaintiff does not allege sufficient facts
for this cause of action.  A plaintiff
generally must allege “facts from which discriminatory intent be inferred.”  (Brown v. Los Angeles Unified
School District (2021) 60 Cal.App.5th 1092, 1107.)  The second amended complaint includes only
three relevant allegations: (1) plaintiff is “of Armenian race and national
origin and ancestry” (¶ 19.c), (2) “when achieving a
promotion and obtaining a management level position, plaintiff was told by her
supervisor the biased and derogatory comments and directive of: ‘Stay away
from Armos’ ” (¶ 29), which is “a slang term for an Armenian” (fn. 5); and
(3) defendants violated FEHA by “using national original [sic], ancestry, race
and color biased [sic] that substantially motivated their reasons for their
adverse employment actions against plaintiff.” (¶ 30.)  
Assuming
a single derogatory comment about national origin could permit an inference of
discriminatory intent, this comment occurred decades ago.  Plaintiff alleges it was made when she was
promoted and obtained “a management level position.”  (¶ 29.) 
She alleges, “In 1999, she was promoted to office manager, a position
she retained until 2004, when she was promoted again, to regional
manager.”  (¶ 17.)  One derogatory comment in 1999 or 2004 does
not permit an inference of discriminatory intent for defendants’ conduct within
the statute of limitations. 
E.
Age Discrimination (5th Cause of Action)
            Plaintiff does not allege sufficient
facts for this cause of action for the same reason as the first cause of
action.  She alleges she belongs to the
protected class because she is over 40 (¶ 19.c) and makes the conclusory
allegation that her “age and/or other characteristics protected by FEHA,
Government Code section 12900, et seq., were substantial motivating factors in
defendants’ ” conduct (¶ 67).  She makes
no allegations permitting an inference of discriminatory intent.  
F.
Retaliation (4th and 7th Causes of Action)
            Plaintiff alleges sufficient facts
for her retaliation claims.  Defendants
contend she has not alleged an adverse employment action.  The court rejected that argument above.  Defendants further argue plaintiff has not
alleged retaliatory actions or motive. 
Her second amended complaint alleges plaintiff requested not to travel
as a reasonable accommodation.  (¶¶ 21.a,
21.o, p, q.)  It alleges that, when she
returned from work disability leave in May 2023, defendants told her she would
have to travel to Riverside and Fresno. 
(¶¶ 21.o-p.)  Plaintiff alleges
that defendants were “making her travel unnecessarily and not for any business
purpose.”  (¶ 21.q.)  When liberally construed, the second amended
complaint sufficiently alleges defendants imposed phony travel requirements as retaliation
for plaintiff’s protected activity.
G.
Wrongful Constructive and/or Actual Termination (10th Cause of Action)
            Plaintiff fails to allege sufficient
facts for this cause of action.  Wrongful
termination requires termination.  (Motevalli
v. Los Angeles Unified School Dist. (2004) 122 Cal.App.4th 97, 106.)  Constructive discharge occurs when the
employer makes working conditions so intolerable that the employee is
“permitted to quit and sue.”  (Gibson
v. Aro Corp. (1995) 32 Cal.App.4th 1628, 1637.)  “The idea of ‘constructive termination’ is
that working conditions are made so intolerable by the employer that the
wronged employee is forced to quit.” 
(Lee v. Bank of America (1994) 27 Cal.App.4th 197, 213; accord Turner
v. Anheuser-Busch, Inc. (1994) 7 Cal.4th 1238, 1246 [“The proper focus
is on whether the resignation was coerced, not whether it was simply one rational
option for the employee”].)  
Plaintiff does not allege
she was terminated or that she resigned due to intolerable working
conditions.  The second amended complaint
alleges, “Mkrtchyan is on disability leave, but her employment has been
constructively and/or actually terminated by defendants’ failure to accommodate
her.”  (SAC, ¶ 20.)  Assuming that being on disability leave satisfies
the requirement of intolerable working conditions, plaintiff does not allege
the other necessary condition: that she quit. 
Plaintiff provides no authority that she can sue for wrongful
termination while remaining on leave and continuing the employment
relationship.
H.
Harassment Based on Disability (3rd Cause of Action)
            Plaintiff alleges sufficient facts
for this cause of action.  For this
claim, the employee must show she was subjected to conduct that was “severe
enough or sufficiently pervasive to alter the conditions of her employment and
create a hostile or abusive work environment.”  (Lyle v. Warner Brothers Television
Productions (2006) 38 Cal.4th 264, 283.) 
“[A]n employee generally cannot recover for harassment that is
occasional, isolated, sporadic, or trivial; rather, the employee must show a
concerted pattern of harassment of a repeated, routine, or a generalized
nature.”  (Ibid.)
In
contrast with discrimination, which
concerns unequal terms and conditions of employment, “harassment focuses
on situations in which the social environment of the workplace
becomes intolerable because the harassment (whether verbal, physical, or
visual) communicates an offensive message to the harassed employee.”  (Roby v. McKesson Corp. (2009) 47
Cal.4th 686, 706.)  Despite the
distinction between the two types of violations, “in some cases the hostile
message that constitutes the harassment is conveyed through official employment
actions.”  (Id. at p. 708.)  
Plaintiff alleges numerous acts that, though tied to
managerial conduct, can reasonably be characterized as conveying a hostile
message to her based on her disability. 
She alleges defendants “regularly… threaten[ed] to
terminate her employment because she took disability and medical leave.”  (¶ 21.s.) 
She further alleges that, though
she submitted medical documentation for her requested accommodations, defendants
“threatened to terminate plaintiff’s employment on multiple occasions because
she took disability and medical leave and was still on disability and medical
leave—falsely alleging that defendants did not have a doctor’s authorization
for plaintiff’s needed disability and medical leaves.”  (¶ 46.) 
The court cannot conclude that, as a matter of law, this conduct was not
severe or pervasive enough to create a hostile work environment.  
I. Interactive Process (9th Cause of
Action)
            Plaintiff
alleges sufficient facts for this cause of action.  FEHA imposes “a continuous obligation to
engage in the interactive process in good faith.  [Citation.] 
‘Both employer and employee have the obligation “to keep communications
open” and neither has “a right to obstruct the process.” [Citation.]  “Each party must participate in good faith,
undertake reasonable efforts to communicate its concerns, and make available to
the other information which is available, or more accessible, to one
party.  Liability hinges on the objective
circumstances surrounding the parties’ breakdown in communication, and
responsibility for the breakdown lies with the party who fails to participate
in good faith.” ’ ”  (Swanson v.
Morongo Unified School Dist. (2014) 232 Cal.App.4th 954, 971–972.)  “[A]n employer’s obligations under the FEHA
may not be delegated” in a manner that “free[s] the employer of
liability.”  (Raines v. U.S.
Healthworks Medical Group (2023) 15 Cal.5th 268, 290.)        
            The second
amended complaint alleges that, when she requested reasonable accommodations,
the moving defendants, through their agents and co-defendants, “engaged in no
interactive process attempting to find some accommodation that would allow
plaintiff to return to gainful employment” but instead “sen[t] plaintiff a
notice stating that no accommodation would be permitted.”  (¶ 88.) 
These allegations sufficiently state that defendants did not fulfill
their duty to engage in the interactive process in good faith.    
J. Reasonable Accommodation (8th Cause of Action)
            Plaintiff
alleges sufficient facts for this cause of action.  “ ‘The essential elements of a failure to
accommodate claim are: (1) the plaintiff has a disability covered by the FEHA;
(2) the plaintiff is a qualified individual (i.e., he or she can perform the
essential functions of the position); and (3) the employer failed to reasonably
accommodate the plaintiff’s disability.’ ” 
(Cuiellette v. City of Los Angeles (2011) 194 Cal.App.4th 757,
766.) 
Plaintiff alleges sufficient facts
for this cause of action for the same reasons as her cause of action for
failing to engage in the interactive process. 
She alleges defendants’ agent made no effort to identify a reasonable
accommodation and instead told her none would be provided.  (¶ 97.) 
She further alleges defendants required her to take “medical and
disability leaves and made no attempts to provide accommodations that would
allow plaintiff to continue working.”  (¶
46.)  
K. Failure to Prevent Discrimination, Retaliation, and
Harassment (12th Cause of Action)
Plaintiff alleges sufficient facts
for this cause of action.  Defendants argue
this claim fails without the underlying claims for discrimination, retaliation,
or harassment.  (See Dickson v. Burke Williams, Inc. (2015) 234 Cal.App.4th 1307, 1309.)  Plaintiff alleges sufficient facts for some
of those underlying claims.  This cause
of action therefore withstands demurrer. 

L. Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress (11th Cause
of Action)
Plaintiff
alleges sufficient facts for this cause of action.  “An essential element of such a claim is a
pleading of outrageous conduct beyond the bounds of human decency.  [Citations.] 
Managing personnel is not outrageous conduct beyond the bounds of human
decency, but rather conduct essential to the welfare and prosperity of
society.  A simple pleading of personnel
management activity is insufficient to support a claim of intentional
infliction of emotional distress, even if improper motivation is alleged.  If personnel management decisions are
improperly motivated, the remedy is a suit against the employer for
discrimination.”  (Janken v. GM Hughes Electronics (1996) 46 Cal.App.4th 55,
80.)  
On the other hand, the
Court of Appeal has stated that “by its very nature,
sexual harassment in the work place is outrageous conduct as it exceeds all
bounds of decency usually tolerated by a decent society.” 
(Fisher v. San Pedro Peninsula Hospital
(1989) 214 Cal.App.3d 590, 618.)  The same reasoning applies to harassment
based on other protected classes. 
Plaintiff alleges sufficient facts for harassment based on
disability.  Whether the allegations are
sufficiently extreme or outrageous therefore is a question of fact.  (See Murphy v. Allstate Ins. Co. (1978)
83 Cal.App.3d 38, 51 [“Whether the defendant’s conduct was outrageous and
whether the plaintiff’s emotional distress was severe are
generally questions of fact”].)
Motion to Strike
Defendants QTC
Management, Inc., Leidos Holdings, Inc., Leidos, Inc., Jeanette Johnson, and
Marcella Aiken move to strike 25 portions of plaintiff’s second amended complaint.  First, they move to strike allegations of
conduct that occurred outside the statute of limitations.  Assuming that conduct is not directly actionable, the allegations
regarding plaintiff’s disability and past accommodations are still “pertinent to” or “supported by an otherwise
sufficient claim.”  (CCP § 431.10, subd.
(b)(2).)  
Second, defendants move to strike the
entire first cause of action for discrimination based on national origin.  This portion for the motion duplicates their
demurrer.  It is moot.  
Third, defendants move to strike
portions of the second amended complaint regarding punitive damages.  Courts may strike allegations related to
punitive damages where the facts alleged “do not rise to the level of malice,
oppression or fraud necessary” to recover punitive damages under Civil Code
section 3294.  (Turman v. Turning
Point of Central California, Inc. (2010) 191 Cal.App.4th 53, 64.)  Conclusory allegations are not enough.  (Smith v. Superior Court (1992)
10 Cal.App.4th 1033, 1042.)  The
complaint must make “factual assertions supporting a conclusion [defendants]
acted with oppression, fraud or malice.” 
(Ibid.) 
Plaintiff alleges
sufficient facts to recover punitive damages. 
“[W]illfully and consciously retaliat[ing] against” employees for
exercising their rights can constitute malicious or oppressive conduct
sufficient for punitive damages.  (Colucci
v. T-Mobile USA, Inc. (2020) 48 Cal.App.5th 442, 455.)  That an employer “intentionally discriminated
against” an employee can suffice for malice. 
(Cloud v. Casey (1999) 76 Cal.App.4th 895, 911.)  That the employers “then attempted to hide
the illegal reason for their decision with a false explanation” could be found
“base, contemptible or vile.”  (Id.
at p. 912.)   
As discussed above,
plaintiff alleges sufficient facts for her claims for retaliation, disability
harassment, and intentional infliction of emotional distress.  Whether the alleged conduct rises to the
level of malice, oppression, or fraud is a question of fact.
Disposition
            Defendants QTC
Management, Inc., Leidos Holdings, Inc., Leidos, Inc. Jeanette Johnson, and
Marcella Aiken’s demurrers to plaintiff Gayane Mkrtchyan’s first, fifth, and 10th
causes of action are sustained with 20 days’ leave to amend.  Defendants’ demurrers to plaintiff’s second
through fourth, sixth through ninth, 11th, and 12th causes of action are overruled.
Defendants QTC
Management, Inc., Leidos Holdings, Inc., Leidos, Inc. Jeanette Johnson, and
Marcella Aiken’s motion to strike portions of the second amended complaint is denied.
Defendants New York Life Insurance,
New York Life, and New York Life Group Benefits Solutions’ Demurrer and Motion
to Strike to Portions of Second Amended Complaint
Demurrer
Defendants
New York Life Insurance, New York Life, and New York Life Group Benefits
Solutions (collectively, NY Life) demur to all causes of action alleged against
them by plaintiff Gayane Mkrtchyan’s second amended complaint.
A. Exhaustion of Administrative Remedies
The NY Life defendants argue
plaintiff failed to exhaust her administrative remedies as required for her FEHA
claims.  “FEHA’s
exhaustion requirement should not be interpreted as a procedural gotcha.” 
(Clark v. Superior Court (2021) 62
Cal.App.5th 289, 293 (Clark).)  “The
administrative exhaustion requirement is satisfied if FEHA claims in a judicial
complaint are ‘ “like and reasonably related to” ’ those in the DFEH complaint
[citation] or ‘likely to be uncovered in the course of a DFEH investigation.’ ”  (Id. at p. 301.)  “ ‘The function of an administrative
complaint is to provide the basis for an investigation into an employee’s claim
of discrimination against an employer, and not to limit access to the courts.’
”  (Id. at p. 306.)  
Plaintiff’s administrative charges with the Civil
Rights Department (SAC, Exs. 1 & 2) were sufficient.  The amended complaint broadly asserts
numerous forms of FEHA violations, including the causes of action she alleges
now.  (Id., Ex. 2.)  That the complaints are conclusory does mean
plaintiff failed to exhaust her administrative remedies.  
Moreover, the Court of
Appeal has expressed skepticism about applying this requirement when “there
was no administrative investigation because the DFEH Complaint,
right-to-sue notice and judicial complaint were all filed on the same day.”  (Clark, supra, 62 Cal.App.5th at p. 310, fn. 23.)  Plaintiff’s CRD complaint indicates “an
immediate Right to Sue notice was requested.” 
(SAC, Ex. 1, p. 1.)  The amended
CRD complaint is dated October 3, 2023 (SAC, Ex. 2), the day before plaintiff
filed this action.  Finding plaintiff
failed to exhaust her administrative remedies would not serve the purposes of
that requirement.  It would only be a
“procedural gotcha.”  (Clark,
supra, 62 Cal.App.5th at p. 293.) 

B. Summary of Allegations Against NY Life
The second amended complaint alleges
numerous conclusory allegations about the NY Life defendants.  For example, it alleges they (and the other
entity defendants) “directly and indirectly employed plaintiff Mkrtchyan, as
defined in the Fair Employment and Housing Act at Government Code section
12926(d).  Defendants QTC, Leidos
Holdings, Leidos, NYLI, NYL, and NYLGBS compelled, coerced, aided, and abetted
the discrimination, each prohibited by California Government Code section
12940(i).  At all relevant times, all
defendants acted as agents of all other defendants in committing the acts
alleged herein, under the definition set forth by FEHA, at Government Code
section 12926(d) and the controlling decision in Kristina Raines v. U.S.
Healthworks Medical Group (2023) 15 Cal.5th 268.”  (SAC, p. 1, fn. 1.)  Those are legal conclusions.  
Plaintiff also alleges conclusions of
fact, such as NY Life “as both the agent[s] of [their] codefendants and in
[their] own capacity exercised control over the working conditions related to
and involving plaintiff’s disability leave, accommodations sought and initiated
interactive process.” (¶ 9.)
As opposed to the conclusory
allegations or uncertain allegations about the plural “defendants,” the only
factual allegations about the NY Life defendants are: (a) identifying their
locations (¶ 2.d-f); (b) plaintiff “submitted relevant doctor’s notes to” her
superiors, but they “directed that Mkrtchyan send the notes to defendant New
York Life instead and denied Mkrtchyan the opportunity to be released to return
to work until defendant New York Life made that decision first” (¶ 21.j); (c)
she did so, but was told “her documentation was not received, even though
Mkrtchyan promptly uploaded all documentation requested of her to Margarian,
Aiken, Fairchild, and New York Life” (¶ 21.k); (d) her superiors required her
“to limit her communications to New York Life, not QTC or Leidos” (¶ 21.s); (e)
her superiors “denied Mkrtchyan the opportunity to be released to return to
work until defendant New York Life made that decision first” (¶ 49); and (e)
the other entities “directed plaintiff to contact only defendant NYLI, NYL, NYLGBS,
who in turn told plaintiff that she would not be given any accommodation of returning
her to work, blaming defendants QTC, Leidos and Leidos Holding.  All named entity defendants engaged in no
interactive process attempting to find some accommodation that would allow
plaintiff to return to gainful employment, ignoring the statutory requirement
that they engage in a timely, good faith, interactive process.  Simply sending plaintiff a notice stating that
no accommodation would be permitted per the employer, without explanation or
attempts to place plaintiff in any alternative job or grant the requested
accommodation sought from May of 2023 through August of 2023” (¶¶ 88, 97).
These allegations fail to establish
any basis for holding NY Life liable as an “employer” under theories that they “indirectly”
or jointly employed plaintiff or for “aiding and abetting” any violations
committed by an employer.  It may,
however, be liable as a business entity agent of plaintiff’s employer.  “[A]n employer’s business entity agents can
be held directly liable under the FEHA for employment discrimination in
appropriate circumstances when the business-entity agent has at least five
employees and carries out FEHA-regulated activities on behalf of an
employer.”  (Raines v. U.S.
Healthworks Medical Group (2023) 15 Cal.5th 268, 273 (Raines).)    
C. Interactive Process (9th Cause of
Action)
            Plaintiff
alleges sufficient facts for this cause of action against NY Life as an agent
of her employer.  FEHA imposes “a
continuous obligation to engage in the interactive process in good faith.  [Citation.] 
‘Both employer and employee have the obligation “to keep communications
open” and neither has “a right to obstruct the process.” [Citation.]  “Each party must participate in good faith,
undertake reasonable efforts to communicate its concerns, and make available to
the other information which is available, or more accessible, to one
party.  Liability hinges on the objective
circumstances surrounding the parties’ breakdown in communication, and
responsibility for the breakdown lies with the party who fails to participate
in good faith.” ’ ”  (Swanson v.
Morongo Unified School Dist. (2014) 232 Cal.App.4th 954, 971–972.)
            The
interactive process includes, among other things, requesting and evaluating
“reasonable medical documentation” when necessary.  (Cal. Code Regs., tit. 2, § 11069(c)(2).)  The regulation on the interactive process
further provides, “In consultation with the applicant or employee to be
accommodated, the employer or other covered entity shall identify potential
accommodations and assess the effectiveness each would have in enabling the
applicant to have an equal opportunity to participate in the application
process and to be considered for the job; or for the employee to perform the
essential function of the position held or desired or to enjoy equivalent
benefit and privileges of employment compared to non-disabled employees.”  (Id., subd. (c)(7).)    
            The second
amended complaint adequately alleges that NY Life acted as the agent of
plaintiff’s employer and carried out the FEHA-regulated activity of engaging in
the interactive process.  Plaintiff
alleges her superiors required her to communicate with NY Life about her
disability and requests for accommodation. 
(¶ 21.j-l, s.)  She further
alleges that defendants including NY Life “engaged in no interactive process
attempting to find some accommodation that would allow plaintiff to return to
gainful employment, ignoring the statutory requirement that they engage in a
timely, good faith, interactive process.” 
(¶¶ 88, 97.)  When liberally
construed, these allegations suffice to constitute a cause of action against NY
Life.
D. Reasonable Accommodation (8th Cause of Action)
            Plaintiff
alleges sufficient facts for this cause of action against NY Life.  “ ‘The essential elements of a failure to
accommodate claim are: (1) the plaintiff has a disability covered by the FEHA;
(2) the plaintiff is a qualified individual (i.e., he or she can perform the
essential functions of the position); and (3) the employer failed to reasonably
accommodate the plaintiff’s disability.’ ” 
(Cuiellette v. City of Los Angeles (2011) 194 Cal.App.4th 757,
766.)  “ ‘[W]hen an employee can work
with a reasonable accommodation other than a leave of absence, an employer may
not require that the employee take a leave of absence.’ ”  (Wallace v. County of Stanislaus
(2016) 245 Cal.App.4th 109, 134.)  
            Plaintiff
alleges sufficient facts for this cause of action for the same reasons as the
ninth cause of action for violation of the interactive process.  She alleges her employer designated NY Life
to act as its agent with respect to the FEHA-regulated activities of conducting
the interactive process and determining disability accommodations and “denied
Mkrtchyan the opportunity to be released to return to work until defendant New
York Life made that decision first.” 
(SAC, ¶ 49.)  She further alleges defendants
required her to take “medical and disability leaves and made no attempts to
provide accommodations that would allow plaintiff to continue working.”  (¶ 46.) 

E. Disability Discrimination (2nd Cause of Action);
Retaliation Due to Disability and Disability Leave (4th Cause of Action);
Wrongful Constructive and/or Actual Termination (10th Cause of Action)
Plaintiff does not allege sufficient
facts for these causes of action.  As
discussed above, she does not allege facts supporting the legal conclusions
that NY Life employed her under any theory. 
Discrimination and retaliation both require an adverse employment
action.  (Higgins-Williams v. Sutter
Medical Foundation (2015) 237 Cal.App.4th 78, 84 [disability
discrimination]; Brown v. Los
Angeles Unified School District (2021) 60 Cal.App.5th 1092, 1105 [retaliation].)  Wrongful termination requires terminating the
employee, either actually or constructively. 

Plaintiff
alleges NY Life “carrie[d]
out FEHA-regulated activities” (Raines, supra, 15 Cal.5th at p. 273)
with respect to the interactive process and reasonable accommodations.  She does not allege sufficient facts showing
“their own FEHA obligations” (id. at p. 290) included responsibility for
the terms and conditions of plaintiff’s employment. 
F. Failure to Prevent Discrimination, Retaliation, and
Harassment (12th Cause of Action)
Plaintiff fails to allege sufficient
facts for this cause of action against NY Life. 
FEHA provides it is unlawful for an employer (or agent) “to fail to take
all reasonable steps necessary to prevent discrimination and harassment from
occurring.”  (Gov. Code, § 12940, subd.
(k).)  This claim cannot stand on its own
without the underlying claims for discrimination or harassment.  (Dickson
v. Burke Williams, Inc. (2015) 234 Cal.App.4th 1307, 1309; Trujillo v.
North County Transit Dist. (1998) 63 Cal.App.4th 280, 289.)  
Plaintiff alleges sufficient facts against
NY Life only for failing to engage in the interactive process (Gov. Code, §
12940, subd. (n)) and failure to provide reasonable accommodation (id.,
subd. (m)).  Those violations are
separate from discrimination (id., subd. (a)), harassment (id.,
subd. (g)), and retaliation (id., subd. (h)).  Plaintiff’s second complaint therefore does
not state a cause of action against NY Life for failing to prevent
discrimination, retaliation, and harassment.
G. Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress (11th Cause
of Action)
Plaintiff
does not allege sufficient facts for this cause of action against NY Life.  “An essential element of such a claim is a
pleading of outrageous conduct beyond the bounds of human decency.  [Citations.] 
Managing personnel is not outrageous conduct beyond the bounds of human
decency, but rather conduct essential to the welfare and prosperity of
society.  A simple pleading of personnel
management activity is insufficient to support a claim of intentional
infliction of emotional distress, even if improper motivation is alleged.  If personnel management decisions are
improperly motivated, the remedy is a suit against the employer for
discrimination.”  (Janken v. GM Hughes
Electronics (1996) 46 Cal.App.4th 55, 80.)  Plaintiff alleges NY Life did nothing more than
personnel management.  
Motion
to Strike
            The NY Life defendants move to strike
40 portions of plaintiff’s second amended complaint.  First, they move to strike all references to
their names.  This portion of their
motion amounts to an improper attempt to demur via the wrong procedural
mechanism.  (See Quiroz v. Seventh Ave. Center (2006) 140 Cal.App.4th 1256, 1281.)
            Second, NY Life
moves to strike allegations on the basis that plaintiff failed to exhaust her
administrative remedies.  The court
rejected that argument above.
            Third, NY Life
moves to strike allegations regarding conduct before October 3, 2020, as beyond
the statute of limitations.  Assuming
that conduct is not directly actionable, those allegations are still “pertinent to” or “supported by an otherwise
sufficient claim.”  (CCP § 431.10, subd.
(b)(2).)  
            Fourth,
NY Life moves to strike portions of the second amended complaint regarding
punitive damages.  Courts may strike
allegations related to punitive damages where the facts alleged “do not rise to
the level of malice, oppression or fraud necessary” to recover punitive damages
under Civil Code section 3294.  (Turman
v. Turning Point of Central California, Inc. (2010) 191 Cal.App.4th
53, 64.)  Conclusory allegations are not
enough.  (Smith v. Superior Court (1992)
10 Cal.App.4th 1033, 1042.)  The
complaint must make “factual assertions supporting a conclusion [defendants]
acted with oppression, fraud or malice.” 
(Ibid.)
            The
factual allegations against NY Life, as discussed above, cannot be
characterized as malice, oppression, or fraud as necessary for punitive
damages.  Plaintiff alleges only
violations of statutory obligations regarding personnel management.  The court therefore will strike these
portions of the second amended complaint. 

Disposition
            Defendants
New York Life Insurance, New York Life, and New York Life Group Benefits
Solutions’ demurrers to plaintiff Gayane Mkrtchyan’s second, fourth, 10th,
11th, and 12th causes of action are sustained with 20 days’ leave to
amend.  Defendants New York Life
Insurance, New York Life, and New York Life Group Benefits Solutions’ demurrers
to plaintiff’s eighth and ninth causes of action are overruled.
Defendants
New York Life Insurance, New York Life, and New York Life Group Benefits
Solutions’ motion to strike portions of the second amended complaint is granted
in part as to allegations regarding punitive damages.  The court hereby strikes the following
portions of the second amended complaint as against the NY Life defendants,
with 20 days’ leave to amend: (1) paragraphs 24.a-c; (2) paragraph 42; (3)
paragraph 64; (4) paragraph 93; (5) paragraph 93; (6) paragraph 101; (7)
paragraph 106; (8) paragraph 117; and (9) paragraph 2 of the prayer for
relief.  