 Case Number:  22STCV39648    Hearing Date:   March 27, 2024    Dept:  52 Plaintiff T.S.’s Motion Pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure Section
340.1 for an Order to Name Doe Defendants
Plaintiff T.S. moves under Code of Civil
Procedure section 340.1 for an order that plaintiff may amend the complaint to
substitute the true names of defendants Doe 1 and Doe 2.  
Amendment to
Substitute Names of Doe 1 and Doe 2
Plaintiff
shows corroborative facts sufficient to permit amendments to substitute the
true names of defendants Doe 1 and Doe 2. 
In an action for childhood sexual assault, the plaintiff must designate
the defendant as a Doe “until there has been a showing of corroborative
fact.”  (CCP § 340.1(l).)  “[I]f one or more facts corroborative of one
or more of the charging allegations against a defendant has been shown,” the
court shall “order that the complaint may be amended to substitute the name of
the defendant or defendants.”  (Id.,
subd. (m).)  
Plaintiff
submitted a certificate of corroborative facts. 
The court reviewed the certificate in camera as required under Code of
Civil Procedure section 340.1(m).  Based
solely on the certificate and the reasonable inferences to be drawn from it,
the court finds plaintiff has shown at least one fact corroborative of the
charging allegations against Does 1 and Doe 2. 
Plaintiff may therefore amend the complaint to substitute the true names
of defendants Doe 1 and Doe 2.  
Sealing
The court finds good cause to seal the certificate of corroborative
facts.  The general rules for sealing
records “do not apply to records that are required to be kept confidential by
law.”  (Cal. Rules of Court, rule
2.550(a)(2).)  The court must review “the
certificate of corroborative fact in camera” (CCP § 340.1(m)) and “shall keep”
the certificate “under seal and confidential from the public.”  (Id., subd. (n).)  The court must seal the certificate.  
Disposition
Plaintiff T.S.’s
motion is granted.  The
court hereby orders that plaintiff may file amendments to the first amended complaint
to substitute the true names of defendants Doe 1 and Doe 2.  The court hereby seals plaintiff’s certificate
of corroborative fact.