 Case Number:  22TRCV00362    Hearing Date:   March 20, 2024    Dept:  8 Tentative Ruling   HEARING DATE:                 March 20, 2024    CASE NUMBER:                  22TRCV00362   CASE NAME:                        Catherine M. Herrera v. Darlene Agarwala,  et al.     MOVING PARTY:                (1) Defendants,  Darlene Agarwala, Pronita Ann Agarwala, Stephen Miro, Gregory Mollner, and  Sabina Agarwala-Miro   RESPONDING PARTY:       (1) Plaintiffs, Paul Herrera and Catherine M. Herrera   TRIAL DATE:                       April 7, 2025  MOTION:                              (1) Motion to Compel Further Responses to Form Interrogatories, Set One to Plaintiff, Paul  Herrera                                                  (2) Motion to Compel Further Responses to Special  Interrogatories, Set One to Plaintiff, Paul Herrera                                                 (3) Motion to Compel Further Responses to Requests for  Production of Documents, Set One to Plaintiff, Paul Herrera                                                  (4) Motion to Compel  Plaintiff’s Further Responses to Requests for Admission to Plaintiff and  Cross-Defendant Paul Herrera                                                 (5) Requests for  Sanctions                                                 (6) Stipulation to  continue the April 8, 2024 trial   Tentative Rulings:                  (1) (2), (3) CONTINUED to  April 17, 2024.  Some of the subject Form  Rogs and RFPs directly relate to RFAs as to which the Court is granting the  motion to compel, which will correspondingly require second amended  responses.   The Court gives some discussion as to the RFAs  at issue in hopes of steering the parties’ future additional meet-and-confer  process between now and the continued hearing.   Both parties are ordered to meet and confer on the FROGs, SROGs and RFPs  to resolve as many requests as possible without the Court’s intervention and to  narrow the number and scope of the remaining discovery requests at issue.  The moving party is ordered to provide a  truncated Separate Statement containing only the SROGs and RFPs that remain at  issue on or before April 12, 2024                                                 (4) Motion to Compel RFAs  as to Paul Herrera is GRANTED as discussed below                                                 (5) Requests for  Sanctions is also CONTINUED to April 17, 2024                                                 (6) GRANT; the Court  will discuss the potential new trial date which will be no earlier than late  October at the hearing     I. BACKGROUND    A. Factual  On May 10, 2022, Plaintiff  Catherine M. Herrera, as successor trustee to Amend and Restatement of the Jan  Kumar Agarwala Separate Property Trust dated September 13, 2021 (“Plaintiff”)  filed a complaint against Darlene Agarwala, an individual, Pronita Ann  Agarwala, an individual, Sabina Agarwala Miro, an individual, Stephen Miro, an  individual, Christopher Miro, an individual, Gregory Mollner, an individual,  Pronita Ann Agarwala and Sabina Agarwala Miro as trustees of the 2010 Darlene  Agarwala Revocable Trust Dated 26, 2010, Prontina Ann Agarwala and Gregory  Mollner as trustees of 2010 Agarwala-Mollner Revocable Trust Mollner, Stephen  Miro and Sabine Miro as trustees of the Miro Family Trust Dated 8/7/21, all  Persons claiming an interest in the real properties described in the complaint  adverse to Plaintiff’s title or any cloud on Plaintiff’s title thereto, and  Does 1 through 100.    On November 11, 2022,  Catherine M. Herrera resigned as successor trustee and Paul Herrera accepted  the position and duties as successor trustee under the terms of the Jan Trust.  On December 2, 2022, Plaintiff filed a First Amended Complaint (“FAC”) for: (1)  Partition of that Certain Real Property Commonly Known as 5021 W. 129th  Street, Hawthorne, CA 90250 APN: 4144-002-023; and (2) Partition of that  Certain Real Property Commonly Known as 521 ½ S/ Oak Street, Inglewood,  California 90301 APN: 4018-025-003.    Per the moving papers, on  September 6, 2023, Defendant, Darlene Agarwala propounded to Plaintiff her  first sets of written discovery – Form Interrogatories, Special  interrogatories, Inspection Demands, and Requests for Admission. Plaintiffs  Paul and Catherine Herrera served responses on October 6, 2023. However,  Defendant, Darlene Agarwala asserts that the responses contained many  objections. Based on this, Darlene Agarwala asserts that her counsel sent  Plaintiff’s counsel a meet and confer letter, dated November 27, 2023, setting  forth each deficiency of Plaintiff’s responses.  On December 7, 2023, Darlene Agarwala notes  Plaintiff served amended responses to the Requests for Admission which revised  the prior responses, though the amended responses still contained allegedly inadequate  responses to several requests.    Defense counsel contends that  on January 15, 2024, another meet and confer letter set forth, in detail, the  alleged deficiencies in Plaintiff Herrera’s responses and requested the proper,  code-compliant responses be served. On January 17, 2024, Defendant notes Plaintiff’s  associate counsel sent correspondence proclaiming that the amended responses  were proper, and without addressing substantively the points raised by  Defendant’s counsel’s January 15, 2024 meet and confer letter.    Defendant Darlene Agarwala  notes that concurrently filed with the present motions to compel further is an  invitation to Plaintiff’s counsel to participate in an IDC if allowed by the  Court.   Based on the above, Defendant  Darlene Agarwala files these Motions to Compel Plaintiff’s further responses to  set one discovery. The parties also have stipulated to continue the trial from  April 8 to October 2024 or later.   B. Procedural   On January 26, 2024, Defendant, Darlene  Agarwala filed these Motions to Compel Further responses from  Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant, Paul Herrera. On March 7, 2024, Plaintiff and  Cross-Defendant filed opposition briefs. On March 13, 2024, Darlene Agarwala  filed reply briefs.  Each side filed  Separate Statements as well.     II.  ANALYSIS               As with most  partition action, the parties have strenuous disagreements bearing on the  accounting aspect of the relative amounts that should be added or deducted from  a pro rata or per capita allocations.   These disagreements bubbled over into the discovery motion  cauldron.  The Court will assist the  parties in resolving those disagreements but needs directed assistance form  counsel to make that happen.       Preliminarily, this Court notes that the purpose of  a Separate Statement in a discovery motion is to make it easier, not harder,  for the Court to rule on motions compelling further responses to propounded  discovery categories. Regurgitating arguments, points, authorities, and  citations from a moving or opposing brief in a separate statement, especially  to the extent done by Defendant, violates the page limitations of briefs  supporting or opposing a motion. This Court is unable to gather from the moving  papers which requests Defendant Darlene Agarwala is seeking further responses,  thus requiring the Court to review the lengthy separate statements in order to  determine as to which requests Darlene Agarwala is seeking further responses. In  a skimmed review of the separate statements, this Court believes Darlene  Agarwala’s Requests for Further Responses to Form Interrogatories, set one,  seeks further responses to five (5) requests, (9.1, 15.1, 17.1, 50.3, and 50.5.)  Despite there apparently being only five requests at issue, Darlene has  submitted a fifty-five (55) page separate statement. Next, for the Request for  Further Responses to Special Interrogatories, set one, this Court believes  Darlene Agarwala is requesting further responses to special interrogatories  nos. 1 through 69. The separate statement for this motion is eighty-five (85)  pages long. Third, for the Motion to Compel Further Responses to Inspection  Demand, this Court believes Darlene Agarwala is seeking further responses to  demands 1-28. Attached to this motion is a 61 page separate statement. 55+85+61=201;  that’s a lot of pages in addition to the briefs, declarations, the responsive  separate statements, etc.     Rather than send the parties to a discovery referee  given this unwieldy volume, the Court instead will give examples of how it will  analyze the shortest set of discovery requests at issue and direct the parties  back to conduct a more meaningful and fruitful meet and confer process.  The Court will also order the moving party to  submit a bare-bones amended separate statement as to each continued motions  shortly before the continued hearing as discussed below.                 The RFAs.               As to RFA 19, the  Motion is granted.  Both parties are  making semantic arguments which the Court will address.  The thrust of the RFA is to seek an admission  that the escrow statement figure for Decedent’s capital contributions is an  accurate reflection of the entire and full amount of Decedent’s “capital”  contributions.  The amended response  denies that the escrow statement reflects the total amount of Jan Agarwale’s “contributions”  but did not respond to the issue of “capital” contributions.  A second amended response is required.                 As to RFA 20, the  Court’s analysis and ruling is the same, a second amended response is required  that responds to the specifically requested admission about “capital”  contributions, not other species of contributions.               As to RFAs 60, 61  and 62, the Motion is granted.  Code Civ. Proc., § 2033.220 (c) states that “If a responding party  gives lack of information or knowledge as a reason for a failure to admit all  or part of a request for admission, that party SHALL STATE IN THE ANSWER THAT A  REASONABLE INQUIRY CONCERNING THE MATTER IN THE PARTICULAR REQUEST HAS BEEN  MADE, and that the information known or readily obtainable is insufficient to  enable that party to admit the matter.”   (Capitalization added.)  Neither  the original nor amended responses states that reasonable inquiry has been  made, and thus a second amended response is required that addresses this  point.  If it is true  that co-defendant Catherine Herrera admitted this same request propounded to  her, it is not clear why Paul did not ask his predecessor if she did or did not  obtain purchase documents and/or improvement documents and/or income/expense  documents as to the 129th Street property, but the second amended  response must specify that reasonable inquiry has been made.              This Court  further notes that the majority of the argument is in the separate statement,  instead of the memorandum of points and authorities, where it should be. The  Court also observes that the majority of the arguments made in the separate  statement are virtually identical to the other arguments made as to each  request in that specific separate statement. The Court urges the parties to  take note of this as the Court will not rule on motions to compel further  responses with excessive separate statements, but instead, will send the issues  back to the party to further meet and confer. This Court thus is continuing the  hearing, but orders the parties to meet and confer further, specifically with  regards to the Motions to Compel Further Responses to Special Interrogatories  and Inspection Demands. This Court further requires an amended separate  statement to be filed by the moving party as to the SROGs and RFPs on or before  April 12, 2024. The amended separate statement should contain only the request,  the response, and any amended or supplemental response but only as to the discovery  requests still at issue for the continuance. The continued hearing will be on April  17, 2024, at 9:00 a.m. The issue of sanctions will also be discussed at the  continued hearing. 