 Case Number:  23STCV01612    Hearing Date:   November 15, 2023    Dept:  71  
Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
 
DEPARTMENT 71
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 



ADAN GOMEZ-RIVERA,  
  
         vs.
 
ADB GLOBAL TRADE LLC, et al.


 Case No.: 
  23STCV01612
 
 
 
 Hearing
  Date:  November 15, 2023



 
Defendant Parsoda U.S.A., Inc. DBA
Pacifica Wholesale Tile and Stone’s demurrer to Plaintiff Adan
Gomez-Rivera’s first amended complaint is sustained with 20
days leave to amend as to the 4th cause of action.
Defendant’s
motion to strike is denied as moot. 
 
Defendant Parsoda U.S.A., Inc. DBA Pacifica Wholesale Tile and
Stone (“Parsoda”) (“Defendant”) demurs to Plaintiff Adan Gomez-Rivera’s (“Gomez-Rivera”) (“Plaintiff”)
first amended complaint (“FAC”).  (Notice of Demurrer, pgs. 1-2; C.C.P.
§430.10(e).)  Defendant also moves to
strike portions of the FAC.  (Notice of
MTS, pgs. 2-3.)
 
Background
Plaintiff filed his initial Complaint on January 25, 2023.  On March 2, 2023, Plaintiff filed the
operative FAC against Defendant and numerous other Non-moving Defendants
(collectively, “Defendants”) alleging four causes of action: (1) negligence;
(2) strict liability- warning defect; (3) strict liability- design defect; and
(4) fraudulent concealment.
This action arises out of Plaintiff’s employment from about 2004
to 2022 in Los Angeles in which he cut, fabricated, and installed granite,
marble, and other natural and artificial stone countertops, mostly in homes. 
(FAC ¶58.)  Plaintiff alleges through the course of his work, he worked
with inherently hazardous products manufactured, distributed by Defendants and
Plaintiff was thereby exposed to and inhaled toxicologically significant
amounts of silica, metals, and other fibrogenic substances from said products,
and developed silicosis and other related consequential injuries, and for which
Plaintiff needs to receive a lung transplant to save his life.  (FAC ¶69.) 

On August 14, 2023, Defendant filed the instant demurrer and
motion to strike.  On November 1, 2023,
Plaintiff filed his opposition.  On November
7, 2023, Defendant filed its reply.
 
A.  
Demurrer
Summary of Demurrer
Defendant demurs to Plaintiff’s 4th cause of action for fraudulent
concealment on the basis that Plaintiff alleges generally that “all defendants”
fraudulently concealed the toxic hazards of their stone products from Plaintiff,
but there are no specific allegations made as to Parsoda, and the generalized
fraud allegations against “all defendants” do not contain the requisite
specificity to maintain a fraud claim against Parsoda.  (Demurrer, pg. 3; Demurrer Memo, pg. 2; C.C.P.
§430.10(e).)[1]
 
          Meet and Confer
Before filing a demurrer pursuant to this chapter, the demurring
party shall meet and confer in person or by telephone with the party who
filed the pleading that is subject to demurrer for the purpose of determining
whether an agreement can be reached that would resolve the objections to be
raised in the demurrer.  (C.C.P.
§430.41(a), emphasis added.)  A
declaration must be filed with a demurrer regarding the results of the meet and
confer process.  (C.C.P. §430.41(a)(3).)
Defendant’s counsel’s declaration states he corresponded in
writing with to Plaintiff’s counsel to address the deficiencies in the
FAC.  (Decl. of Mohamed ¶2, Exh. A.)  Defendant’s counsel’s declaration is insufficient
under C.C.P. §430.41(a)(3) because he did not meet and confer in person or by
telephone, as required by the statute. 
However, failure to sufficiently meet and confer is not grounds to
overrule or sustain a demurrer.  (C.C.P.
§430.41(a)(4).)  Accordingly, the Court
will consider the instant demurrer.
 
Legal Standard
“[A] demurrer tests the legal
sufficiency of the allegations in a complaint.” (Lewis v. Safeway, Inc.
(2015) 235 Cal.App.4th 385, 388.)  A
demurrer can be used only to challenge defects that appear on the face of the
pleading under attack or from matters outside the pleading that are judicially
noticeable.  (See Donabedian v.
Mercury Insurance Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994 [in ruling on a
demurrer, a court may not consider declarations, matters not subject to
judicial notice, or documents not accepted for the truth of their
contents].)  For purposes of ruling on a
demurrer, all facts pleaded in a complaint are assumed to be true, but the
reviewing court does not assume the truth of conclusions of law.  (Aubry v. Tri-City Hospital District
(1992) 2 Cal.4th 962, 967.)
 
Failure to State a Claim
Fraudulent
Concealment (4th COA)
“[T]he elements of an action for fraud and
deceit based on a concealment are: (1) the defendant must have concealed or
suppressed a material fact, (2) the defendant must have been under a duty to
disclose the fact to the plaintiff, (3) the defendant must have intentionally
concealed or suppressed the fact with the intent to defraud the plaintiff, (4)
the plaintiff must have been unaware of the fact and would not have acted as he
did if he had known of the concealed or suppressed fact, and (5) as a result of
the concealment or suppression of the fact, the plaintiff must have sustained
damage.”  (Boschma v. Home
Loan Center, Inc. (2011) 198 Cal.App.4th 230, 248.)
“In transactions which do not involve
fiduciary or confidential relations, a cause of action for non-disclosure of
material facts may arise in at least three instances: (1) the defendant makes
representations but does not disclose facts which materially qualify the facts
disclosed, or which render his disclosure likely to mislead; (2) the facts are
known or accessible only to defendant, and defendant knows they are not known
to or reasonably discoverable by the plaintiff; (3) the defendant actively conceals
discovery from the plaintiff.”  (Warner
Construction Corp. v. L.A. (1970) 2 Cal.3d 285, 294, footnotes omitted.)
Fraud actions are subject to strict
requirements of particularity in pleading. 
(Committee on Children’s Television, Inc. v. General Foods Corp.
(1983) 35 Cal.3d 197, 216.)  Fraud must
be pleaded with specificity rather than with general and conclusory
allegations.  (Small v. Fritz
Companies, Inc. (2003) 30 Cal.4th 167, 184.)  The specificity
requirement means a plaintiff must allege facts showing how, when, where, to
whom, and by what means the representations were made, and, in the case of a
corporate defendant, the plaintiff must allege the names of the persons who
made the representations, their authority to speak on behalf of the
corporation, to whom they spoke, what they said or wrote, and when the
representation was made.  (Lazar v.
Superior Court (1996) 12 Cal.4th 631, 645; West v. JPMorgan Chase Bank,
N.A. (2013) 214 Cal.App.4th 780, 793.)
Less specificity as to fraud claims is required if it appears from
the nature of allegations that defendant must necessarily possess full
information, or if the facts lie more in the knowledge of opposing parties.  (Alfaro v. Community Housing Improvement
System & Planning Assn., Inc. (2009) 171 Cal.App.4th 1356, 1384-85 [“it
does not appear necessary to require each of the 38 plaintiffs to allege each
occasion on which an agent of either defendant could have disclosed …. Surely
defendants have records of their dealings with the plaintiffs.”].)
Plaintiff alleges prior to Plaintiff’s exposure to Defendants’
stone products, Defendants were aware that their artificial stone products
contained extremely high concentrations of crystalline silica (approximately
95%), which produced extremely high levels of respirable crystalline silica in
their ordinary and expected use, when fabricators and installers cut, grind,
drill, edge, and polish the products, so their products presented extreme
hazards and risks to the health of exposed workers, in comparison with natural
stone products such as granite (which contains about 35% crystalline silica)
and marble (which only contains about 5% crystalline silica).  (FAC ¶514.) 
Plaintiff alleges prior to Plaintiff’s exposure to Defendants’ stone
products, Defendants were aware that commonly used and recommended protective
measures (e.g., use of wet processing methods and air purifying respirators)
were inadequate to prevent fabricators and installers from getting silicosis.  (FAC ¶515.) 

Plaintiff alleges prior to Plaintiff’s exposure to Defendants’
stone products, Defendants were aware that Plaintiff’s employers lacked
knowledge of the extreme toxic hazards of Defendants’ stone products and were
unaware of the extreme protective measures that are necessary to prevent
fabricators and installers from getting silicosis from exposure to Defendants’
stone products.  (FAC ¶516.)  Plaintiff alleges at all times prior to
Plaintiff’s exposure to Defendants’ stone products, Defendants nevertheless concealed
from Plaintiff and from his employers the extreme protective measures that are
necessary to prevent fabricators and installers from getting silicosis from
exposure to Defendants’ stone products. 
(FAC ¶517.)
          Plaintiff alleges at
all times prior to Plaintiff’s exposure to Defendants’ stone products, Defendants
failed to check and monitor the use of Defendants’ stone products to determine
whether Plaintiff’s employers were using the products in such a manner so as
not to endanger the health and safety of their employees, or whether
Plaintiff’s employers were endangering the health and safety of their employees
by using Defendants’ products in such a manner as would cause silicosis and
death.  (FAC ¶518.)  Plaintiff alleges at all times prior to
Plaintiff’s exposure to Defendants’ stone products, Defendants failed to cease
selling their toxic and lethal stone products to Plaintiff’s employers who,
despite their best efforts and intentions, were incapable of using Defendants’
stone products safely, were incapable of protecting fabricators and installers
from the respiratory and lethal hazards of Defendants’ stone products, and, although
they attempted to use Defendants’ stone products as directed and intended, were
nevertheless endangering the health and safety of their employees by exposing them
to the toxic and lethal hazards of Defendants’ stone products.  (FAC ¶519.) 

Plaintiff alleges pursuant to California common law, Defendants
were under a legal duty to fully disclose the toxic and fibrogenic properties
of their products directly to Plaintiff.  (FAC ¶423.) 
Plaintiff alleges Defendants also owed a duty to disclose the toxic
hazards of their stone products to Plaintiff because Defendants alone had knowledge
of material facts, to wit the toxic properties of their products, which were not
accessible to Plaintiff.  (FAC
¶424.)
Plaintiff alleges Defendants also owed a duty to disclose the
toxic hazards of their stone products to Plaintiff because Defendants made representations
regarding their stone products but failed to disclose additional facts which
materially qualify the facts disclosed, and/or which rendered the disclosures made,
likely to mislead Plaintiff.  (FAC
¶425.)
Plaintiff alleges Defendants also owed a duty to disclose the
toxic hazards of their stone products to Plaintiff because a transactional
relationship existed between Plaintiff and Defendants inasmuch as Plaintiff
purchased and/or received toxic stone products from Defendants.  (FAC ¶426.)
Plaintiff alleges notwithstanding their knowledge of the toxic and
fibrogenic hazards of their stone products, at all material times hereto, Defendants concealed said toxic hazards from Plaintiff so
that he would use Defendants’ stone products in his work.  (FAC ¶427.) 
Plaintiff alleges he was unaware of the toxic and fibrogenic properties
of Defendants’ stone products and would not have acted as he did had he known
of said concealed hazards.  (FAC ¶428.) 
Plaintiff alleges Defendants had a duty to disclose the toxic
hazards of their products to Plaintiff’s employers; Defendants concealed
significant health hazards from Plaintiff; Defendants intended that their
products be used by Plaintiff; and therefore, intended and had reason to expect
that their concealment of toxic hazards and health risks would be acted upon by
Plaintiff, who otherwise would not have used Defendants’ stone products.  (FAC ¶429.)  Plaintiff alleges in using Defendants’ stone
products, Plaintiff acted in justifiable reliance that Defendants had not
concealed material facts of the toxic hazards of their stone products.  (FAC ¶429.)
Plaintiff alleges as a direct and proximate result of Defendants’
fraudulent concealment of the toxic and fibrogenic hazards of their stone
products, Plaintiff was exposed to Defendants’ stone products in the course of
his work as a countertop fabricator and installer and he has sustained serious
injuries and disease, including silicosis, and other conditions.  (FAC ¶430.)  Plaintiff alleges each of the
toxic stone products to which Plaintiff was exposed, was manufactured and/or
supplied by Defendants, including the Doe Defendants.  (FAC ¶431.)  Plaintiff alleges as a result of his exposure
to Defendants’ toxic stone products, toxins, including silica, metals and other
toxic substances, within said stone products entered his body.  (FAC ¶431.)  Plaintiff alleges each of the foregoing toxic
stone products caused Plaintiff’s silicosis as well as his other related and
consequential injuries.  (FAC ¶434.)
          Plaintiff alleges
facts for a cause of action for fraudulent concealment but lacks the sufficient
particularity for allegations against Defendant.  Plaintiff alleges (1) Defendants
concealed or suppressed a material fact (FAC ¶¶514-519);
(2) Defendants were under a duty to disclose the fact to Plaintiff (FAC ¶¶423-429);
(3) Defendants intentionally concealed or suppressed the fact with the
intent to defraud Plaintiff (FAC ¶¶427, 429); (4) Plaintiff was
unaware of the fact and would not have acted as he did if he had known of the
concealed or suppressed fact (FAC ¶428); and (5) as a result of the concealment
or suppression of the fact, Plaintiff sustained damage (FAC ¶434).
          The
pleading specificity requirement for fraud claims means a plaintiff must allege
facts showing how, when, where, to whom, and by what means the representations
were made, and, in the case of a corporate defendant, the plaintiff must allege
the names of the persons who made the representations, their authority to speak
on behalf of the corporation, to whom they spoke, what they said or wrote, and
when the representation was made.  (Lazar,
12 Cal.4th at pg. 645; West, 214 Cal.App.4th at pg. 793.)  Here, less specificity is required based on
the nature of the allegations that the facts lie more in the knowledge of
Defendant than in Plaintiff.  (Alfaro,
171 Cal.App.4th at pgs. 1384-1385.) 
However, Plaintiff fails to allege Defendant’s conduct of intentionally
concealing or suppressing a material fact with the intent to defraud Plaintiff
(FAC ¶¶427, 429).
          Accordingly,
Defendant’s demurrer to Plaintiff’s 4th cause of action for fraudulent
concealment is sustained with 20 days leave to amend.
 
Conclusion
Defendant’s demurrer to Plaintiff’s FAC is sustained with 20
days leave to amend as to the 4th cause of action.
Moving Party to give notice.
 
B.   
Motion to Strike
In light of the Court’s ruling on the demurrer, Defendant’s motion
to strike is denied as moot.
 
Dated:  November _____, 2023
                                                                             





  