 Case Number:  22STCV18602    Hearing Date:   January 23, 2025    Dept:  73 01/23/2025
Dept. 73
Rolf Treu, Judge presiding
 
VERONICA AVERY v. CATHERINE BELANGER,
et al. (22STCV18602)
 
Counsel for Plaintiff/moving
party:  Daniel R. Sallus and Adam G.
Carpinelli (Stone & Sallus, LLP)
Counsel for Defendant/opposing
party: Daniel M. Agrella (Business Litigation Lawyers) and Eric R. Ginder (The
Ginder Law Group) 
 
MOTION FOR TERMINATING SANCTIONS AND
REQUEST FOR MONETARY SANCTIONS (filed 11/13/2024)
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 
The Court GRANTS IN PART Plaintiff’s Motion for Terminating Sanctions
Against Defendant Only Escrow, Inc. and Request for Monetary Sanctions.   
 
Plaintiff’s request
for terminating sanctions is DENIED WITHOUT PREJUDICE.
 
The Court GRANTS
Plaintiff’s request for monetary sanctions against Defendant Only Escrow, Inc.
in the reduced amount of $1,515.00. Said monetary sanctions are to be paid to
counsel for Plaintiff within 30 days of the date of this order. 
 
I.           
BACKGROUND
 
On June 7, 2022, Plaintiff Veronica Avery (“Plaintiff”) filed a
Complaint against Defendant Catherine Belanger (“Catherine”), Benjamin Belanger
(“Benjamin”), and Kannella, Inc. dba Re/Max All-Pro (“Re/Max”) and Does 1
through 10, inclusive, alleging causes of action for: (1) Elder Financial
Abuse, (2) Breach of Fiduciary Duty, (3) Fraud, (4) Violation of Bus. &
Prof. Code § 17200, and (5) Declaratory and Injunctive Relief.  
 
On October 3, 2022, Plaintiff filed the operative First Amended
Complaint, alleging causes of action for: (1) Elder Financial Abuse, (2) Breach
of Fiduciary Duty, (3) Fraud, (4) Violation of Bus. & Prof. Code § 17200,
and (5) Declaratory and Injunctive Relief. 

 
On January 10, 2024, Plaintiff filed an Amendment to her Complaint
that identified Defendant Only Escrow, Inc. (“Only Escrow” or “Defendant”) as
Doe 1. On March 6, 2024, Only Escrow filed its Answer to Plaintiff’s complaint.

 
On September 12, 2024, after hearing, the Court granted
Plaintiff’s motion to deem request for admissions, set one, as admitted against
Defendant. (09/12/24 Minute Order at p. 1.) The truth of the matters in set one
of Plaintiff’s RFAs were deemed admitted. (09/12/24 Minute Order at p. 1.) The
Court also granted Plaintiff’s request for monetary sanctions against Defendant
Only Escrow in the reduced amount of $1,515.00. (09/12/24 Minute Order at p.
1.) The Court ordered monetary sanctions to be paid to counsel for Plaintiff
within 30 days of the date of the Court’s order. (09/12/24 Minute Order at p.
1.) Defendant did not file an opposition to the motion. (09/12/24 Minute Order
at pp. 1-2.) 
 
On September 13, 2024, after hearing, the Court granted
Plaintiff’s motion to compel Defendant Only Escrow’s responses to set one of
Plaintiff’s request for production of documents. (09/13/24 Minute Order at p.
1.) Defendant Only Escrow was ordered to provide verified responses within 30
days. (09/13/24 Minute Order at p. 1.) The Court also granted Plaintiff’s
request for monetary sanctions against Defendant Only Escrow in the reduced amount
of $1,515.00. (09/13/24 Minute Order at p. 1.) The Court ordered monetary
sanctions to be paid to counsel for Plaintiff within 30 days of the date of the
Court’s order. (09/13/24 Minute Order at p. 1.)
 
On September 17, 2024, after hearing, the Court granted
Plaintiff’s motion to compel Defendant Only Escrow’s responses to set one of
Plaintiff’s form interrogatories. (09/17/24 Minute Order at p. 1.) Defendant
Only Escrow was ordered to provide verified responses within 30 days. (09/17/24
Minute Order at p. 1.) The Court also granted Plaintiff’s request for monetary
sanctions against Defendant Only Escrow in the reduced amount of $1,515.00.
(09/17/24 Minute Order at p. 1.) The Court ordered monetary sanctions to be
paid to counsel for Plaintiff within 30 days of the date of the Court’s order.
(09/17/24 Minute Order at p. 1.) Notice was waived. (09/17/24 Minute Order at
p. 4.) 
 
On September 20, 2024, Plaintiff filed and served respective
notices of ruling which show that Plaintiff served Defendant Only Escrow with
the Court’s September 12, 2024 and September 13, 2024 orders. 
 
On October 1, 2024, after hearing, the Court granted Plaintiff’s
motion to compel Defendant Only Escrow’s responses to set one of Plaintiff’s special
interrogatories. (10/01/24 Minute Order at p. 1.) Defendant Only Escrow was
ordered to provide verified responses within 30 days. (10/01/24 Minute Order at
p. 1.) The Court also granted Plaintiff’s request for monetary sanctions
against Defendant Only Escrow in the reduced amount of $1,515.00. (10/01/24
Minute Order at p. 1.) The Court ordered monetary sanctions to be paid to
counsel for Plaintiff within 30 days of the date of the Court’s order. (10/01/24
Minute Order at p. 1.)
 
On October 1, 2024, Plaintiff served a notice of ruling of the
Court’s October 1, 2024 order on all interested parties. (See 10/01/24 Notice
of Ruling.) 
 
On January 7, 2025, after hearing, the Court denied Defendant’s
motion to vacate the Court’s order deeming the RFAs as admitted, as well as
Defendant’s request for monetary sanctions against Plaintiff. (01/07/25 Minute
Order at p. 5.) The Court’s order noted that “three days before the hearing on
the RFA Motion, on September 9, 2024, Defendant served its responses to the
RFAs.” (01/07/25 Minute Order at p. 2.) 
 
On January 13, 2025, Plaintiff filed a notice of change of
attorney indicating that “Stone & Sallus, LLP, attorneys of record for
Plaintiff . . . has changed the handling attorney in this matter, and her[e]by
substitutes Daniel R. Sallus, Esq. and Adam G. Carpinelli, Esq. as attorneys of
record. The firm’s address, telephone number, facsimile number and email
addresses remain unchanged.” (Notice of Change of Attorney at p. 1:23-26.) 
 
On November 13, 2024, Plaintiff filed a Motion for Terminating
Sanctions against Defendant Only Escrow and Request for Monetary Sanctions,
arguing: 
 
·      
Terminating sanctions are warranted for Defendant’s willful
violation of this Court’s orders.
·      
Monetary sanctions should be imposed against Defendant and/or its
counsel. 
 
In opposition, Defendant argues that:
 
·      
Terminating sanctions are reserved for egregious misconduct. 
·      
Defendant has fully complied with discovery obligations. 
·      
Plaintiff has suffered no prejudice. 
·      
There is no evidence of abuse or bad faith. 
·      
Plaintiff’s misrepresentations are misleading. 
 
As of January 17, 2025, no reply brief has been filed. Any reply
brief was required to have been filed and served at least five court days prior
to the hearing. (Code Civ. Proc., § 1005, subd. (b).) 
 
II.           
ANALYSIS
 
A.      Legal
Standard for Motion for Terminating Sanctions 
 
A misuse of the discovery process includes, but is not limited to,
“[d]isobeying a court order to provide discovery.” (Code Civ. Proc., §
2023.010, subd. (g).) A misuse of the discovery process may warrant the
imposition of terminating sanctions. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2023.030.) Terminating
sanctions may be imposed by one of the following orders: (1) an order striking
out the pleadings or parts of the pleadings of any party engaging in the misuse
of the discovery process; (2) an order staying further proceedings by that
party until an order for discovery is obeyed; (3) an order dismissing the
action, or any part of the action, of that party; and (4) an ordering rendering
a judgment by default against that party. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2023.030, subd.
(d)(1)-(4).)  
 
Further, “[t]he court may impose a monetary sanction ordering that one
engaging in the misuse of the discovery process, or any attorney advising that
conduct, or both pay the reasonable expenses, including attorney’s fees,
incurred by anyone as a result of that conduct. The court may also impose this
sanction on one unsuccessfully asserting that another has engaged in the misuse
of the discovery process, or on any attorney who advised that assertion, or on
both. If a monetary sanction is authorized by any provision of this title, the
court shall impose that sanction unless it finds that the one subject to the
sanction acted with substantial justification or that other circumstances make
the imposition of the sanction unjust.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2023.030, subd.
(a).)  
 
“The discovery statutes evince an incremental approach to discovery
sanctions, starting with monetary sanctions and ending with the ultimate
sanction of termination.” (Doppes v. Bentley Motors, Inc. (2009) 174
Cal.App.4th 967, 992.)  “Discovery sanctions should be appropriate to the
dereliction, and should not exceed that which is required to protect the
interests of the party entitled to but denied discovery.” (Ibid.)
“[C]ontinuing misuses of the discovery process warrant incrementally harsher
sanctions until the sanction is reached that will curb the abuse.”  (Ibid.)
Where discovery violations are “willful, preceded by a history of abuse, and
the evidence shows that less severe sanctions would not produce compliance with
discovery rules, the trial court is justified in imposing the ultimate
sanction.” (Ibid.)  A trial court has broad discretion to
impose discovery sanctions, but two facts are generally a prerequisite to the
imposition of nonmonetary sanctions. (Biles v. Exxon Mobil Corp. (2004)
124 Cal.App.4th 1315, 1327.) Where discovery sanctions are requested against a
party, there must be a failure to comply with a court order and the failure
must be willful. (Ibid.)   
 
“[A] sanction cannot go further than is necessary to accomplish the
purpose of discovery.” (Newland v. Superior Court (1995) 40 Cal.App.4th
608, 613.) “[S]anctions may not be imposed solely to punish the offending
party.” (Rutledge v. Hewlett-Packard Co. (2015) 238 Cal.App.4th 1164,
1193.) “Furthermore, the sanction chosen should not provide a windfall for the
other party, by putting the prevailing party in a better position than if he or
she had obtained the discovery and it had been favorable.” (Ibid.) 
 
B.      Evidence in
Support of the Motion 

 
Counsel for Plaintiff, Adam G.
Carpinelli (“Carpinelli”), provides a declaration in support of the motion. Mr.
Carpinelli states the following: On September 12th, 13th, 17th, and October
1st, the Court heard Plaintiff’s motions to compel Defendant’s responses to
requests for admission, requests for production, form interrogatories, and
special interrogatories, sets one, respectively. (Carpinelli Decl., ¶ 3.) The
Court granted all four of Plaintiff’s motions and awarded Plaintiff sanctions
in the amount of $1,515.00 for each motion, or a total of $6,060.00 for all
four motions. (Carpinelli Decl., ¶ 3; Exh. A.) To date, Defendant has failed to
comply with the court orders by failing to provide discovery responses without
objections and by failing to pay the sanctions owed to Plaintiff. (Carpinelli Decl.,
¶ 3.) Plaintiff is left without discovery documents that may contain highly
probative information concerning the issues in this litigation that are
necessary for Plaintiff to prepare for trial. (Carpinelli Decl., ¶ 4.)
Defendant’s continued reluctance to provide this information gives Plaintiff
cause to believe that the discovery responses would contain highly relevant
admissions and/or circumstantial evidence that would be damaging to Defendant’s
case. (Carpinelli Decl., ¶ 4.) 
 
Counsel states that Defendant has not
complied with the Court orders by providing discovery responses and sanctions,
which were all due on or before October 31, 2024. (Carpinelli Decl., ¶ 5.) Defendant
and its counsel are currently indebted to Plaintiff and Plaintiff’s counsel for
a total of $6,060.00 in sanctions imposed pursuant to the Court’s orders on the
four discovery motions. (Carpinelli Decl., ¶ 6.) 
 
Mr. Carpinelli sets forth his hourly
rate of $485 per hour and states that a $60.00 filing fee was incurred for the
instant motion. (Carpinelli Decl., ¶ 7.) Counsel spent 3.5 hours on the motion
and its associated papers. (Carpinelli Decl., ¶ 7.) 1.5 hours is expected to
review any opposition and prepare a reply. (Carpinelli Decl., ¶ 7.) Counsel
expects to spend one (1) hour attending the hearing on the instant motion.
(Carpinelli Decl., ¶ 7.) Thus, Mr. Carpinelli expects to spend a total of six
(6) hours pertaining to the motion. (Carpinelli Decl., ¶ 7.) Plaintiff requests
monetary sanctions of $2,970.00 against Defendant and/or its counsel.
(Carpinelli Decl., ¶ 7.) 
 
 
 
 
C.      Evidence in
Opposition to the Motion 
 
In opposition
to the motion, counsel for Defendant, Eric Ginder (“Ginder”), provides a
declaration. Mr. Ginder states that Defendant provided verified responses to
Plaintiff’s request for admissions, special interrogatories, form
interrogatories, and request for production of documents. (Ginder Decl., ¶ 2;
Exh. A.) Plaintiff failed to serve the requests for admissions, form
interrogatories, and request for production of documents on both counsel for
Defendant, and Plaintiff only served co-counsel, Daniel Agrella, at an e-mail
address not designated for service. (Ginder Decl., ¶ 3.) Mr. Ginder states that
due to the improper service, he was unaware of the discovery requests and
motions even though he is lead counsel for Defendant. (Ginder Decl., ¶ 4.) This
caused delays in calendaring responses, responding to Plaintiff’s discovery,
and missed deadlines in this case. (Ginder Decl., ¶ 4.) Despite the improper
service, Defendant served verified responses to Plaintiff’s request for
admissions on September 9, 2024, which was three days before the hearing on
Plaintiff’s motion to deem those requests admitted. (Ginder Decl., ¶ 5; Exh.
A.)
 
Mr. Ginder
indicates that, on January 8, 2025, Defendant served verified responses to
Plaintiff’s form interrogatories and requests for production. (Ginder Decl., ¶
5; Exh. A.) Defendant served verified responses to Plaintiff’s special
interrogatories on January 9, 2025. (Ginder Decl., Exh. A.) Plaintiff’s
discovery motions as to Defendant were not served on both counsel for Defendant
as Plaintiff only served Mr. Agrella and failed to serve Mr. Ginder. (Ginder
Decl., ¶ 6.) 
 
As to the
outstanding monetary sanctions, Mr. Ginder indicates that the monetary
sanctions of $6,060.00 will have been paid by January 10, 2025, as such
sanctions check was mailed on such date. (Ginder Decl., ¶¶ 7-8; Exh. B.) The
total sanctions amount of $6,060.00 was paid late due to the fact that it
presents a financial hardship on Defendant’s counsel, Daniel Agrella, who is a
solo practitioner, and the sanctions were paid from Mr. Agrella’s personal
funds. (Ginder Decl., ¶ 7.) Defendant has now provided verified objection-free
responses as of the filing of the opposition. (Ginder Decl., ¶ 7.) Plaintiff
ignored multiple ACH or wire instructions, which resulted in a delay of the
payment process. (Ginder Decl., ¶ 8.) Counsel states that Defendant has fully
complied with all discovery obligations and that, as of the filing of the
motion, Defendant has no outstanding discovery obligations. (Ginder Decl., ¶
9.) Counsel states that the motion for terminating sanctions is moot. (Ginder
Decl., ¶ 10.) Defendant has acted in good faith to address any prior delays
caused by service issues and financial hardship and has fully cured any alleged
deficiencies in discovery. (Ginder Decl., ¶ 10.) Counsel states that Plaintiff
has suffered no prejudice. (Ginder Decl., ¶ 15.) 
 
D.     Appropriateness
of Sanctions
 
The Court has reviewed Plaintiff’s discovery motions filed as to
Defendant, and the Court agrees with Mr. Ginder that he was not served with any
of those motions. The proofs of service as to Plaintiff’s discovery motions as
to Defendant only show that Mr. Agrella was served with the motions on
Defendant’s behalf. While Mr. Ginder was not served with the initial motions,
the Court finds his co-counsel, Mr. Agrella, was served with the motions. Thus,
Mr. Agrella should have been on notice as to Defendant’s discovery obligations.

 
However, Plaintiff did serve the Court’s notice of ruling as the
Court’s September 12, September 13, and October 1, 2024 orders on both Mr.
Agrella and Mr. Ginder. Irrespective of any lack of service of the motions on
Mr. Ginder, the Court finds that both of Defendant’s attorneys were served with
the notice of ruling as to the Court granting the motions to compel responses
to Plaintiff’s special interrogatories and requests for production, as well as
the court order deeming the RFAs as admitted. Thus, Defendant was aware of this
Court’s orders as to such discovery and therefore was aware of its discovery
obligations and obligation to pay monetary sanctions. As to the Court’s
September 17, 2024 order concerning the form interrogatories, Mr. Agrella
appeared at the hearing and notice was waived. (See 09/17/24 Minute Order at p.
4.) Thus, Defendant was also aware of its obligations to provide responses to
Plaintiff’s form interrogatories and the payment of monetary sanctions pursuant
to Plaintiff’s motion to compel responses thereto. 
 
Given that counsel for Defendant had notice of the Court’s September
12, September 13, September 17, and October 1, 2024 orders, the Court finds
that Defendant failed to comply with such orders. As to the RFA motion, while
Defendant provided responses on September 9, 2024, which was prior to the
hearing on such motion, Defendant did not pay monetary sanctions pursuant to
any of the Court’s orders until January 10, 2025. Further, Defendant failed to
comply with this Court’s September 13, September 17, and October 1, 2024 orders
by failing to provide verified responses within 30 days of the date of each
respective order.  
 
The Court also takes issue with the statement in the declaration of Mr.
Ginder that the payment of sanctions was late due to the financial hardship of
Mr. Agrella. (Ginder Decl., ¶ 7.) The Court questions why the financial
hardship of Mr. Agrella is relevant given that none of the relevant court
orders ordered Mr. Agrella to pay sanctions. In fact, the September 12,
September 13, September 17, and October 1, 2024 orders only imposed sanctions
against Defendant. 
 
Accordingly, the Court finds that Defendant’s failure to comply with
this Court’s discovery orders issued on September 12, September 13, September
17, and October 1, 2024 was willful. It is apparent that Defendant provided
untimely discovery responses despite court orders ordering Defendant to provide
said responses within 30 days. Moreover, Defendant’s untimely payment of monetary
sanctions also failed to comply with this Court’s orders. 
 
However, the Court declines to impose terminating sanctions. Given that
Defendant has, although belatedly, provided discovery to Plaintiff and has paid
the outstanding monetary sanctions, the Court finds that imposing terminating
sanctions against Defendant would amount to punishment and would provide a
windfall to Plaintiff. Moreover, the Court must take an incremental approach to
sanctions. While evidentiary or issue sanctions might have been appropriate,
Plaintiff did not request such sanctions. 
 
Critically, the Court notes that the notice of motion does not indicate
which type of terminating sanction is sought. While Plaintiff indicates in the
memorandum of points and authorities that she seeks an order striking
Defendant’s answer (Mem. of Ps and As at p. 6:2-3), such request should have
been identified in the notice of motion. “A request for sanction shall, in the
notice of motion . . . specify the type of sanction sought.” (Sole Energy
Co. v. Hodges (2005) 128 Cal.App.4th 199, 207.) Given that terminating sanctions are
not uniform in their application, Plaintiff should have set forth which type of
terminating sanction she sought in the notice of motion. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2023.030, subd.
(d)(1)-(4).)  
 
Plaintiff’s request for terminating sanctions
is therefore DENIED WITHOUT PREJUDICE. 
 
The Court, however, does find that monetary sanctions are appropriate.
Defendant did not provide the requisite discovery and pay monetary sanctions in
a timely manner despite court orders. The Court will only impose monetary
sanctions against Defendant as the notice of motion does not identify which
counsel of Defendant monetary sanctions are sought against. (Not. of Mot. at p.
2:1-2.) The Court is unsure whether Plaintiff seeks sanctions against Mr. Agrella,
Mr. Ginder, or both. 
 
Here, Defendant disobeyed multiple court orders pertaining to
discovery. The Court GRANTS Plaintiff’s request for monetary sanctions in the
reduced amount of $1,515.00 (which represents three hours of work on the motion
and the $60 filing fee). The Court reduces sanctions given the straightforward
nature of the motion. Monetary sanctions in the amount of $1,515.00 are to be
paid to counsel for Plaintiff by Defendant Only Escrow, Inc. within 30 days of
the date of this order. 
 
III.           
DISPOSITION

 
Based on the foregoing, the Court GRANTS IN PART Plaintiff’s
Motion for Terminating Sanctions Against Defendant Only Escrow, Inc. and
Request for Monetary Sanctions.   
 
Plaintiff’s
request for terminating sanctions is DENIED WITHOUT PREJUDICE.
 
The Court
GRANTS Plaintiff’s request for monetary sanctions against Defendant Only
Escrow, Inc. in the reduced amount of $1,515.00. Said monetary sanctions are to
be paid to counsel for Plaintiff within 30 days of the date of this order. 