  Case Number:  24TRCV02605    Hearing Date:   December 16, 2024    Dept:  E 


Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
Southwest District
Torrance Dept. E




 
DEBBIE
  ANN MARTINEZ, an individual,


 
 
 
Plaintiff,


 
Case No.:


 
24TRCV02605




 
vs.


 


 
[Tentative]
  Sustained
 




 
CITY OF
  LOS ANGELES, a Public Entity; LOS ANGELES WORLD AIRPORTS, a Public Entity;
  and Does 1-25, Inclusive,


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Defendants.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing
Date:              December
16, 2024
 
Moving Parties:          City of Los Angeles
 
Responding Party:      None
 
HEARING: Demurrer 
 
            The Court considered the moving. 
 
RULING
 
            The Court
sustains the Demurrer with leave to amend within 20 days of this ruling.
            
BACKGROUND
 
            On August
8, 2024, Plaintiff Debbie Ann Martinez filed the Complaint against Defendants
City of Los Angeles and Los Angeles World Airports, alleging causes of action
for negligence, premises liability, and willful failure to warn arising from an
alleged slip and fall incident at Los Angeles International Airport.
 
            On November 7, 2024,
Defendant filed the instant Demurrer.
 
            Plaintiff has not
opposed the Demurrer.
            
LEGAL STANDARD
 
            A demurrer can be
used only to challenge defects that appear on the face of the pleading under
attack or from matters outside the pleading that are judicially noticeable. (Blank
v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311, 318.) “To survive a demurrer, the complaint
need only allege facts sufficient to state a cause of action; each evidentiary
fact that might eventually form part of the plaintiff’s proof need not be
alleged.” (C.A. v. William S. Hart Union High School Dist. (2012) 
53 Cal.4th 861, 872.) For the purpose of testing the sufficiency of
the cause of action, the demurrer admits the truth of all material facts
properly pleaded. (Aubry v. Tri-City Hospital Dist. (1992) 2 Cal.4th
962, 966-967.) A demurrer “does not admit contentions, deductions or
conclusions of fact or law.” (Daar v. Yellow Cab Co. (1967) 67 Cal.2d
695, 713.) 
 
A pleading is uncertain if it is ambiguous or
unintelligible. (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subd. (f).) A demurrer for
uncertainty may lie if the failure to label the parties and claims renders the
complaint so confusing defendant cannot tell what he or she is supposed to
respond to. (Williams v. Beechnut Nutrition Corp. (1986) 185 Cal.App.3d
135, 139, fn. 2.) However, “[a] demurrer for uncertainty is strictly construed,
even where a complaint is in some respects uncertain, because ambiguities can
be clarified under modern discovery procedures.” (Khoury v. Maly’s of
California, Inc. (1993) 14 Cal.App.4th 612, 616.) 
 
 
DISCUSSION 
 
Meet and Confer 
 
Before filing a
demurrer, “the demurring party shall meet and confer in person or by telephone
with the party who filed the pleading that is subject to demurrer for the
purpose of determining whether an agreement can be reached that would resolve
the objections to be raised in the demurrer.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.41, subd. (a).) 
 
            Defendant’s Counsel called Plaintiff’s Counsel on October
18, 2024, and spoke about possible deficiencies in the Complaint. (Rosenthal
Decl. ¶ 4.) Therefore, the
Court finds that Defendant has satisfied the meet and confer requirement.
 
Plaintiff Debbie
Ann Martinez alleges that Defendants City of Los Angeles, Los Angeles World
Airports, and Does 1-25 negligently caused her injuries on July 30, 2023, when
she slipped and fell due to a dangerous condition on Defendants' property at
Los Angeles International Airport (LAX), Terminal 1. The walking surface was
inherently dangerous for its intended use, and a liquid-like substance caused
her to slip, resulting in serious bodily injuries.
 
Plaintiff asserts
that Defendants were negligent in installing, constructing, maintaining,
inspecting, repairing, managing, supervising, and operating the premises,
including floors, fixtures, entrance/exit ways, and surrounding areas. She
claims Defendants either created the hazardous condition or failed to correct,
remove, or warn her of the danger despite having actual or constructive notice.
Defendants’ failure to act or warn was a direct cause of her injuries.
 
As a result of
Defendants' negligence, Plaintiff sustained serious bodily injuries, requiring
past and future medical treatment and related expenses. She also alleges loss
of earnings, diminished earning capacity, and ongoing emotional distress, pain
and suffering, mental anguish, and loss of quality of life. Plaintiff further
names Does 1-25 as unidentified individuals or entities responsible for her
injuries, pending further discovery. Damages sought exceed the jurisdictional
minimum and will be proven at trial.
 
 
Cause
of Action 1 – General Negligence
 
“To
state a cause of action for negligence, a plaintiff must allege (1) the
defendant owed the plaintiff a duty of care, (2) the defendant breached that
duty, and (3) the breach proximately caused the plaintiff's damages or
injuries.” (Lueras v. BAC Home Loans Servicing, LP (2013) 221
Cal.App.4th 49, 62.) 
 
            Defendant argues that no general negligence claim can be
asserted against a public entity as Government Code § 815.2 limits a public
entity's liability to acts or omissions of its employees performed within the
scope of employment, provided such acts would otherwise give rise to a cause of
action against the employee. (Gov. Code § 815.2(a).) If the employee is immune,
the public entity is also immune. (Gov. Code § 815.2(b).)
 
Defendant asserts
that employees acting within the scope of employment are immune from claims
related to dangerous property conditions under Government Code §§ 815.4 and
840. The Complaint fails to identify specific acts or omissions by any named
employee of Defendant that caused Plaintiff’s injuries, instead making
collective and vague allegations, which are insufficient to state a valid
claim.
 
Further, Defendant
argues the Complaint does not allege with sufficient detail the essential
elements of a negligence claim necessary to attach liability to an employee. (Merrill
v. Navegar, Inc. (2001) 26 Cal.4th 465.) The Complaint also fails to
address whether any negligent employee would have immunity under Gov. Code §
815.2(b), which must be specifically pled. (Gov. Code § 815.2(b).) Therefore,
Defendant concludes that Plaintiff has not sufficiently stated a cause of
action for negligence against a public entity and requests that the demurrer to
this cause of action be sustained.
 
            Plaintiff has filed
no opposition to the Demurrer.
 
            Defendant has shown that
Plaintiff's negligence claim is barred because, except as otherwise provided
for by statute, there is no liability on the part of a public entity for any
act or omission of itself, a public employee, or any other person. (Cal. Gov.
Code § 815(a); Susman v. City of Los Angeles (1969) 263 Cal.App.2d 803,
808; De Villers v. County of San Diego (2007) 156 Cal.App.4th
238, 247.)
 
            Therefore, the Court sustains the
Demurrer to the first cause of action with leave to amend.
 
Cause
of Action 2 – Willful Failure to Warn
 
            The Second cause of action asserts a count for willful
failure to warn under California Civil Code § 846.
 
            Plaintiff’s claim of willful failure
to warn, based on California Civil Code § 846, is inapplicable to public
entities like Defendants. (Civ. Code, § 846.) Liability for public entities
regarding the condition of public property is governed exclusively by the
Government Claims Act, specifically § 835, which covers dangerous conditions on
public property. (Gov. Code § 835.) Section 846 applies only to private
property owners who grant access for recreational purposes and does not apply
to public entities or commercial travel, such as the incident involving
Plaintiff. (Civ. Code § 846.) Furthermore, the Court has explicitly rejected
the use of § 846 to impose liability on public entities. (Delta Farms
Reclamation Dist. v. Superior Court (1983) 33 Cal. 3d 699, 704-06.) Thus, Plaintiff’s
claim for willful failure to warn is barred by the Government Claims Act. (Civ.
Code, § 846; Delta Farms Reclamation Dist., supra, 33 Cal. 3d 699,
704-06.) 
 
            Plaintiff has filed no opposition to
the Demurrer.
 
            Therefore, the Court sustains the
Demurrer to the second cause of action with leave to amend.
 
Cause
of Action 3 – Dangerous Condition of Public Property
 
            A public entity may be liable for a
dangerous condition of public property if the property was in a dangerous
condition at the time of the injury, the dangerous condition caused the injury,
the condition created a reasonably foreseeable risk of the type of injury that
occurred, and either a negligent or wrongful act or omission of an employee
within the scope of their employment created the condition, or the public
entity had actual or constructive notice of the dangerous condition in
sufficient time to take measures to protect against it. (Gov. Code § 835; Sun
v. City of Oakland (2008) 166 Cal.App.4th 1177, 1183.)
 
Defendant
argues that Plaintiff’s Complaint fails to sufficiently allege a cause of
action for dangerous condition of public property with the required
particularity. Defendant contends that vicarious liability for the acts of
employees or agents is precluded by Government Code §§ 815.2(b) and 840, which
provide immunity for public entities and employees under such claims.
Additionally, Plaintiff has not adequately alleged either actual or
constructive knowledge of the alleged dangerous condition. (Manual v. PGE (2009)
173 Cal.App.4th 927, 945.)
 
Defendant
further asserts that the Complaint lacks the necessary allegations to establish
the essential elements of a dangerous condition claim under Government Code §
835. Specifically, Plaintiff has failed to allege: (1) that Defendant owned or
controlled the property; (2) that the property was in a dangerous condition at
the time of the incident; (3) that the dangerous condition created a
foreseeable risk of the kind of injury that occurred; (4) that the dangerous
condition was caused by the negligence of an employee acting within the scope
of employment, or that Defendant had sufficient notice of the dangerous
condition and failed to act; (5) that Plaintiff suffered harm; and (6) that the
dangerous condition was a substantial factor in causing Plaintiff’s injuries.
(Gov Code § 835.)
 
            Plaintiff has not filed an
opposition to this Demurrer.
 
            While Plaintiff has pleaded that she
slipped on a water-like substance and fell, the rest of her allegations are
overly general. (Complaint p. 4-5.) Plaintff fails to plead how the dangerous
condition was caused by the negligence of an employee acting within the scope
of their duties, or how the dangerous condition created a foreseeable risk of
injury. (Gov Code § 835.) Thus, the Complaint fails to state facts sufficient
to plead a cause of action for dangerous condition of public property.
 
            Therefore, the Court sustains the
Demurrer to the third cause of action with leave to amend.