 Case Number:  23STCV14467    Hearing Date:   September 21, 2023    Dept:  52 Defendants
KHRG La Peer LLC, Karina Celis, and Felipe Cucalon’s Motion to Compel
Arbitration and Stay of the Action 
Defendants
KHRG La Peer LLC, Karina Celis, and Felipe Cucalon move to compel arbitration
of this action by plaintiff Cynthia Sandoval.
Evidentiary Objections
Defendants make 12 objections to plaintiff’s declaration.  All 12 objections are overruled.
Federal Arbitration Act (FAA)
            Plaintiff disputes
whether the FAA applies.  The court
declines to reach the issue because the result would be the same under either
the FAA or the California Arbitration Act.
Existence
of Agreement
Defendants
present sufficient evidence that plaintiff electronically signed the purported
arbitration agreement.  A motion to
compel arbitration is “a summary proceeding.” 
(Espejo v. Southern California
Permanente Medical Group (2016) 246 Cal.App.4th 1047, 1057.)  The moving party can meet the “initial burden
to show an agreement to arbitrate by attaching a copy of the arbitration
agreement purportedly bearing the opposing party’s signature.”  (Id. at p. 1060.)  After the opposing party “challenge[s] the
validity of that signature,” the moving party must “establish by a
preponderance of the evidence that the signature was authentic.”  (Id. at p. 1058.)  The moving party can meet its ultimate burden by showing the “security
precautions regarding transmission and use of an applicant’s unique username
and password, as well as the steps an applicant would have to take to place his
or her name on the signature line.”  (Id.
at p. 1062.)
Defendants
present evidence that plaintiff electronically signed an arbitration agreement (Campbell
Decl., Ex. 5) on November 14, 2022 (id., ¶¶ 12-14, Exs. 4-5).  Defendants also submit evidence explaining
the security precautions taken to ensure only plaintiff could sign the
agreement.  (Id., ¶¶ 4-12, Ex. 2.)  Employees were required to create an “ADP
account” using “personal identifying information,” including their date of
birth and partial Social Security number. 
(Id., ¶ 8.)  Employees
“must input a unique user name and password created by them.”  (Ibid.)  Plaintiff admits she created an “ADP account”
to access payroll documents.  (Sandoval
Decl., ¶ 4.)
To sign a
document, employees must “scroll through the entire document,” then “type in
their first and last name and either click I DECLINE or I ACCEPT.”  (Campbell Decl., ¶ 9.)  Afterward, “ADP creates a document verifying
the electronic signature of the Electronic Agreement.”  (Ibid.)  “Once completed, neither the employee, KHRG
nor ADP had, or has, the ability to modify an employee’s Electronic Agreement
selection choice.”  (Ibid.)  Defendants submit a document from the ADP
software showing plaintiff electronically signed the arbitration agreement on
November 14, 2022, at 2:15 p.m. EST.  (Id.,
Ex. 5.) 
Plaintiff does
not effectively rebut that evidence.  When
she was hired in December 2021, plaintiff expressly opted out of an arbitration
agreement presented to her on paper. 
(Campbell Decl., ¶¶ 4-6, Ex. 1; Sandoval Decl., ¶ 3, Ex. A.)  Plaintiff states her supervisors “made
multiple efforts to convince [her] to sign the company’s arbitration
agreement.”  (Id., ¶ 5.)  They did so “at least four or five
times.”  (Ibid.)  Plaintiff “stood by [her] initial decision
and refused to sign any arbitration agreement.” 
(Ibid.)  Plaintiff further
states, “Human Resources Director [Krystopher] Campbell and Defendant Karina
Celis were much more aggressive about their efforts to have me execute an
arbitration agreement after I began disclosing my work restrictions and
complaining about ongoing harassment by Defendant Karina Celis.”  (Id., ¶ 6.)
Plaintiff
asserts defendant Karina Celis accepted the agreement on her behalf without her
consent.  She states, “On or about
November 2022, I was approached by Defendant Karina Celis and Human Resources
Assistant Kimberly Friedman.  They
escorted me to an office and sat me in front of a computer and ordered me to
login into my ADP account in order to process documents, which they both
identified as ‘payroll records.’  After I
provided login information to both of them, Defendant Karina Celis proceeded to
take control and click some buttons on the screen and subsequently logged out
of the account.  When I asked them what
they were doing, Defendant Celis replied by again telling me that it was just ‘payroll
records’ that needed to be processed for the company.  …  The
whole process with Defendant Celis and Human Resources Assistant Kimberly Friedman
took no more than three to four minutes, and I was rushed out of the office and
told to return to cleaning rooms.” 
(Sandoval Decl., ¶ 7.) 
Plaintiff states
she requested paper copies of the documents, but defendants would not provide
them.  (Sandoval Decl., ¶¶ 7-8.)  She further states, “Had I received hard
copies or been instructed how to access digital copies of the records, I would
have immediately opted out … as I had done so at the beginning of my tenure
when I was presented with a paper copy of the agreement.”  (Id., ¶ 9.)  Plaintiff concludes, “[A]s I began
complaining about her conduct, Defendant Karina Celis took it upon herself to
digitally process the agreement by taking over my ADP account under the false
pretense that she was managing my ‘payroll records.’ ”  (Id., ¶ 11.)  
Defendant
Karina Celis directly disputes plaintiff’s statements.  Celis states, “I have never communicated with
Sandoval regarding the execution of the Electronic Agreement.  I never took control of Sandoval’s ADP
account, let alone forced or coerced Sandoval to electronically sign her
Electronic Agreement.”  (Celis Decl., ¶
6.)  
Celis
submits strong corroborating evidence. 
She presents evidence she did not start working for KHRG La Peer LLC
until November 16, 2022—two days after plaintiff signed the arbitration
agreement.  (Celis Decl., ¶¶ 2-6.)  Celis presents documentary evidence showing
she started working for KHRG La Peer LLC on November 16, 2022, including internal
emails from before she started (id., Ex. 1) and “on boarding documents
executed on [her] first day of work,” which are signed by hand and dated
November 16, 2022 (id., ¶ 5, Ex. 3). 
Moreover, Celis states. “[F]or the first 45 days of my employment with
KHRG I was in an observation period” and “was simply observing the company’s
operations and I did not have authority to make decisions nor give directives
to employees, including Sandoval.”  (Id.,
¶ 6.)  It therefore was “impossible for [Celis]
to have executed Sandoval’s Electronic Agreement on her behalf.”  (Ibid.)
A simple
mistake in who accepted the agreement on plaintiff’s behalf does not explain
this discrepancy.  Though plaintiff
states another employee, Kimberly Friedman, was present when the agreement was
electronically signed (Sandoval Decl., ¶¶ 7, 9), plaintiff specifically asserts
Celis was the one who took “control” and pressed the buttons to indicate
accepting the agreement (id., ¶¶ 7, 11). 
Moreover, plaintiff states defendants became “much more aggressive about
their efforts to have [her] execute an arbitration agreement after [she] began
disclosing [her] work restrictions and complaining about ongoing harassment by
Defendant Karina Celis.”  (Id., ¶
6.)  Plaintiff also states Karina Celis
accepted the agreement for plaintiff “as [plaintiff] began complaining about
[Celis’s] conduct.”  (Id., ¶ 11.)  Plaintiff could not have complained about
Celis’s conduct before Celis started her job. 

Defendants
thus present evidence impeaching plaintiff’s testimony and rebutting her account
of how the agreement was electronically signed. 
Defendants meet their burden of showing by a preponderance of the
evidence that plaintiff manifested her consent to the electronic arbitration agreement.
Unconscionability
            Plaintiff argues the agreement is
unconscionable and therefore unenforceable. 
Unconscionability requires both
procedural and substantive unconscionability using a sliding scale.  (Serafin v. Balco Properties Ltd., LLC
(2015) 235 Cal.App.4th 165, 185.) 
“Procedural unconscionability focuses on the elements of oppression and
surprise.”  (Id. at p. 177.)  “Substantive unconscionability focuses on the
actual terms of the agreement and evaluates whether they create overly harsh or
one-sided results.  (Ibid., internal
quotes omitted.)  “Generally, the burden
is on the party opposing arbitration to show an arbitration agreement is
unconscionable.”  (Saheli v. White
Memorial Medical Center (2018) 21 Cal.App.5th 308, 330.)
Plaintiff shows moderate procedural unconscionability.  Procedural unconscionability occurs when the
stronger party drafts the contract and presents it to the weaker party on a
‘take it or leave it basis.’ ”  (Trivedi v. Curexo Technology Corp.
(2010) 189 Cal.App.4th 387, 393, disapproved on other grounds by Baltazar v. Forever 21, Inc. (2016) 62
Cal.4th 1237.)  “ ‘Arbitration contracts
imposed as a condition of employment are typically adhesive.’ ” (Davis v.
Kozak (2020) 53 Cal.App.5th 897, 906 (Davis).)  “By itself, however, adhesion establishes only
a ‘low’ degree of procedural unconscionability.”  (Id. at p. 907.)
Plaintiff presents
evidence of surprise or oppression.  In
November 2022, defendants asked her to electronically sign an arbitration
agreement during her workday.  (Sandoval
Decl., ¶ 7.)  She had no opportunity to
negotiate the contract and was given little time to review it.  (Ibid.)  Plaintiff states, “I neither speak nor write
English” (id., ¶ 3), but the electronic interface for signing the
agreement is “primarily in English” (id., ¶ 4).  Plaintiff also asked for paper copies of the
digital documents, but defendants refused to provide them.  (Id., ¶¶ 7-9.)  
Plaintiff does not, however, show any substantive
unconscionability as required.  She
argues the agreement is substantively unconscionable because it includes a
provision waiving her right to bring representative claims under the Private
Attorneys General Act (PAGA).  The
agreement provides, “Unless prohibited by applicable law,” plaintiff may not “participate
in any representative action.”  (Campbell
Decl., Ex. 5, p. 2.)  It further states,
“Individual claims under the Private Attorneys General Act based on alleged
individual Labor Code violations shall be resolved on an individual basis only,
and unless prohibited by applicable law, there will be no right or authority to
pursue non-individual claims as a private attorney representative involving
Labor Code violations affecting other individuals.”  (Ibid.)  This provision does not apply because such a
waiver is “prohibited by applicable law.” 
(See Iskanian v. CLS Transportation Los Angeles, LLC (2014)
59 Cal.4th 348, 384 (Iskanian).)  
Plaintiff provides no authority that including a
void provision waiving the right to bring representative PAGA claims makes an
agreement unenforceable.  In Iskanian,
the California Supreme Court held the employer “cannot compel the waiver of [the
employee’s] representative PAGA claim but that the agreement is otherwise
enforceable.”  (59 Cal.4th at p.
391.)  Furthermore, any unconscionability
arising from this provision is irrelevant because plaintiff does not bring any
PAGA claims. 
Plaintiff also argues the agreement is substantively
unconscionable because it requires her to pay the costs of arbitration.  The agreement provides, “Unless otherwise
provided by law, I understand that the Company and I shall be responsible for
our own attorney’s fees and costs, except that I shall be required to pay the
case filing fee charged by JAMS/AAA or the filing fee had I filed a complaint
in state court, whichever is less.”  (Campbell
Decl., Ex. 5, p. 2.)  
As with the PAGA waiver, plaintiff will not be
required to pay costs unique to arbitration under this provision because doing
so is prohibited as “otherwise provided by law.”  (See, e.g., Armendariz v. Foundation
Health Psychcare Services, Inc. (2000) 24 Cal.4th 83, 110-111.)  Courts “assume that the arbitrator will
operate in a reasonable manner in conformity with the law.”  (Dotson v. Amgen, Inc. (2010) 181
Cal.App.4th 975, 984.)  California law
requires defendants to pay all costs unique to this arbitration.  The court assumes the arbitrator will follow
that requirement.
Assuming these two provisions are unconscionable, they
are severable.  “The strong legislative and judicial preference is to sever the
offending term and enforce the balance of the agreement” unless the agreement
is “permeated by unconscionability.”  (Lange v. Monster Energy Company (2020) 46 Cal.App.5th 436, 453, internal
quotes, citations, and alterations omitted.) 
The agreement includes a severability clause: “If any provision of this
Agreement is held to be invalid or unenforceable, in whole or in part, the
remaining provisions shall continue to be valid and any unenforceable or
conflicting provision shall be automatically severed.”  (Campbell Decl., Ex. 5, p. 3.)  The court will therefore sever the PAGA
waiver and the fee provision and require defendant KHRG La Peer LLC to pay
plaintiff’s arbitration fees.
Disposition
            Defendants
KHRG La Peer LLC, Karina Celis, and Felipe Cucalon’s motion to compel
arbitration and stay the action is granted.  
The court
hereby severs the agreement’s “Waiver of Representative Claims”
(Campbell Decl., Ex. 5, p. 2) and the agreement’s provision that “the Company
and I shall be responsible for our own attorney's fees and costs” (ibid.).  As required by Armendariz v. Foundation Health Psychcare Services,
Inc., defendant KHRG La Peer LLC must pay all of plaintiff’s costs that are unique
to arbitration.
Plaintiff
Cynthia Sandoval is ordered to arbitrate this action against
defendants.  The court hereby stays the
entire action pending resolution of the arbitration proceeding.