 Case Number:  21CHCV00423    Hearing Date:   February 28, 2024    Dept:  F43 Dept. F43
Date: 2-28-24
Case # 21CHCV00423, WIN Partners, LLC vs. World Tech
Toys, Inc.
Trial Date: N/A
 
DEMURRER TO SECOND AMENDED CROSS-COMPLAINT WITH
MOTION TO STRIKE
 
DEMURRER WITH MOTION TO STRIKE
 
MOVING PARTY: Plaintiff and Cross-Defendant WIN Partners,
LLC
RESPONDING PARTY: Cross-Complainants World Tech Toys,
Inc. and World Trading 23, Inc.
 
RELIEF REQUESTED
Demurrer to the Second Amended Cross-Complaint
·        
1st Cause of Action: Breach of
Contract
·        
2nd Cause of Action: Fraud/Deceit
·        
3rd Cause of Action: Negligent
Misrepresentation
·        
4th Cause of Action: Quantum Meruit
 
Motion to Strike
·        
Allegations Related to and Claim for Punitive Damages
[SACC, pp. 15:12-22; 17:5-15; and 18:21]
 
RULING: Demurrer is overruled in its entirety. The
motion to strike is granted in part for p. 17:5-15.
 
DEMURRER
 
MOVING PARTY: Cross-Defendants Numair Fakir and Hasham
Hussain
RESPONDING PARTY: Cross-Complainants World Tech Toys,
Inc. and World Trading 23, Inc.
 
RELIEF REQUESTED
Demurrer to the Second Amended Cross-Complaint
·        
Entire Complaint
·        
1st Cause of Action: Breach of
Contract
·        
2nd Cause of Action: Fraud/Deceit
·        
3rd Cause of Action: Negligent
Misrepresentation
·        
4th Cause of Action: Quantum Meruit
 
RULING: Sustained for all causes of action without
leave to amend
 
SUMMARY OF ACTION 
This case involves a contract for personal protective
equipment (PPE) between Cross-Complainants and Cross-Defendant WIN Partners,
LLC. WIN Partners attempted to market the PPE but customers would not buy the
products. WIN Partners attempted to get a refund, but no money was refunded.
After WIN Partners filed suit, Cross-Complainants subsequently filed a cross-complaint
against WIN Partners and WIN Partners employees, Numair Fakir and Hasham
Hussain. The cross-complaint is based on WIN Partners failure to pay for the
services of Cross-Complainants.
 
Cross-Complainant’s Cross-Complaint alleges four causes of
action for Breach of Contract, Fraud/Deceit, Negligent Misrepresentation, and
Quantum Meruit.
 
On August 7, 2023, the Court ruled on the Cross-Defendants’
demurrers to Cross-Complainants’ First Amended Cross-Complaint (FACC). The
Court sustained a demurrer with leave to amend to the FACC for Cross-Defendants
Fakir and Hussain on the basis of their individual capacity. The Court also
sustained their demurrer to the First, Second, Third, and Fourth Causes of
Action. The Court overruled Cross-Defendant WIN Partners’ demurrer to the
Second and Third Causes of Action.
 
Cross-Complainants filed a Second Amended Cross-Complaint
(SACC) on August 22, 2023. WIN Partners filed a demurrer with motion to strike
on September 26, 2023. Fakir and Hussain filed a demurrer on October 4, 2023.
Cross-Complainants oppose these demurrers.
 
ANALYSIS
A demurrer is an objection to a pleading, the grounds for
which are apparent from either the face of the complaint or a matter of which
the court may take judicial notice. (CCP § 430.30(a); see also Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311,
318.) The purpose of a demurrer is to challenge the sufficiency of a pleading
“by raising questions of law.” (Postley
v. Harvey (1984) 153 Cal.App.3d 280, 286.) “In the construction of a
pleading, for the purpose of determining its effect, its allegations must be
liberally construed, with a view to substantial justice between the parties.” (CCP
§ 452.) The court “ ‘ “treat[s] the demurrer as admitting all material facts properly
pleaded, but not contentions, deductions or conclusions of fact or law…” ’ ” (Berkley v. Dowds (2007) 152 Cal.App.4th
518, 525.) In applying these standards, the court liberally construes the
complaint to determine whether a cause of action has been stated. (Picton v. Anderson Union High School Dist.
(1996) 50 Cal.App.4th 726, 733.)
 
WIN Partners, Inc.
 
Demurrer:
 
WIN Partners is
demurring to the First and Fourth Causes of Action for the first time, despite
having filed previous demurrers to the cross-complaint that did not include
these causes of action. Additionally, the Court previously overruled WIN
Partners’ demurrer to Cross-Complainants’ Second and Third Causes of Action,
but WIN Partners has demurred to them again.
 
CCP § 430.41(b) states
that “A party demurring to a pleading that has been amended after a demurrer to
an earlier version of the pleading was sustained shall not demur to any portion
of the…cross-complaint…on grounds that could have been raised by demurrer to
the earlier version of the…cross-complaint…”
 
Based on the
plain text of CCP § 430.41(b), it would forbid any demurrer by WIN Partners to
Cross-Complainants’ Cross-Complaint on grounds that were not previously raised.
Considering that the demurrer to the First and Fourth Causes of Action is based
on new grounds, the demurrer is overruled.
 
WIN Partners
argues in its reply that because the Court previously sustained the demurrer of
the individual cross-defendants to the First and Fourth Causes of Action, then
that would carry over to it. The Court disagrees. If WIN Partners had
previously thought the First and Fourth Causes of Action to be deficient, it
should have demurred to them. It cannot now demurrer to them for the first time
because the Court sustained another party’s demurrer to those causes of action.
 
It should also be
noted that when a demurrer to a cause of action has previously been overruled,
filing a demurrer again is improper because the Court is “foreclosed from
rendering a new determination on the viability of those claims unless some new
facts or circumstances were brought to [its] attention.” (Bennett v.
Suncloud (1997) 56 Cal.App.4th 91, 96-97.) Further, “a party cannot seek to
dismiss the same claim based on a previously rejected argument without seeking
reconsideration.” (Goncharov v. Uber Technologies, Inc. (2018) 19
Cal.App.5th 1157, 1167.)
 
The Court
previously overruled WIN Partners’ demurrer to the Second and Third Causes of
Action. That ruling stands.
 
WIN Partners’
demurrer to Cross-Complainants’ SACC is overruled in its entirety.
 
Motion to Strike:
 
WIN Partners has moved to strike Cross-Complainants’
allegations related to and request for punitive damages on the basis that Cross-Complainants
have not sufficiently pled that WIN Partners acted with oppression, fraud, or
malice.
 
This Court may strike from the complaint any irrelevant,
false, or improper matter. Under CCP § 435, “[a]ny party, within the time
allowed to respond to a pleading may serve and file a notice of motion to
strike the whole or any part thereof.” Under CCP § 436(a), “[t]he court may,
upon a motion made pursuant to Section 435, or at any time in its discretion,
and upon terms it deems proper . . . [s]trike out any irrelevant, false, or
improper matter inserted in any pleading.”
 
Punitive damages are governed by Civ. Code § 3294: “In an
action for the breach of an obligation not arising from contract, where it is
proven by clear and convincing evidence that the defendant has been guilty of
oppression, fraud, or malice, the plaintiff, in addition to the actual damages,
may recover damages for the sake of example and by way of punishing the
defendant.” (Civ. Code § 3294(a).)
 
Cross-Complainants have sufficiently alleged a cause of
action for fraud, so punitive damages may be available under that cause of
action. That leaves the punitive damage allegations under the negligent misrepresentation
cause of action (p. 17:5-15). In Cross-Complainants’ opposition, they indicated
that the inclusion of punitive damages under the negligent misrepresentation
cause of action was inadvertent.
 
Therefore, the motion to strike is granted, but only for the
punitive damage allegations found on page 17, lines 5-15, under the negligent
misrepresentation cause of action.
 
            Numair
Fakir and Hasham Hussain
 
Demurrer:
 
Cross-Defendants Fakir and Hussain (Cross-Defendants) demur
to the entire complaint on the basis that there is no basis for liability for
them as individuals. They also demur to the four causes of action on the basis
that they fail to state facts sufficient to constitute causes of action against
Fakir and Hussain.
 
First, Cross-Defendants argue that they are protected from
liability by the Immunity Rule. Pursuant to Cal. Corp. Code § 17703.04(a)(1),
the debts, obligations, or other liabilities, whether arising in contract,
tort, or otherwise, are solely those of the limited liability company to which
they relate. “They do not become the debts, obligations, or other liabilities
of a member or manager solely by solely by reason of the member acting as a
member or manager acting as a manager for the limited liability company.” (Cal.
Corp. Code § 17703.04(a)(2).) California courts follow this rule, finding
agents and employees acting for and on behalf of an entity in their official
capacities may not ordinarily be held liable for breach of the company’s
contract. (Shoemaker v. Myers (1990) 52 Cal.3d 1, 24-25.) The rationale
for this rule is that agents acting for their company within their authority
and official capacity are in confidential relationship with the company and
their actions are privileged. (Mallard v. Boring (1960) 182 Cal.App.2d
390, 393.)
 
There are exceptions to the Immunity Rule when an agent
agrees to be obligated personally for the debts, obligations, and liabilities
of the limited company, provided such agreement is made expressly in writing.
(See, e.g.., Cal. Corp. Code § 17703.04(e) (articles and organizational
documents, personal written guarantee).) A member may become subject to
personal liability by judgment of court, under the common law alter ego
liability theory, or under the same or similar circumstances and to the same
extent as a shareholder of a corporation. (Cal. Corp. Code § 17703.04(b).)
 
Another exception to the Immunity Rule is “[a]n agent or
employee is always liable for his own torts, whether his employer is liable or
not.” (Fleet v. Bank of America N.A. (2014) 229 Cal.App.4th 1403, 1411.)
“In other words, when the agent commits a tort, such as…fraud…, then…the agent
[is] subject to liability in a civil suit for such wrongful conduct.” (Fleet,
229 Cal.App.4th at 1411.) “[I]f a tortious act has been committed by an agent
acting under authority of his principal, the fact that the principal thus
becomes liable does not, of course, exonerate the agent from liability.” (Id.)
“The fact that the tortious act arises during the performance of a duty created
by contract does not negate the agent’s liability.” (Id. at 1411-12.)
 
In this case, Cross-Defendants are an agent and manager of
WIN Partners, LLC (SACC, ¶¶ 4-5, 7.) This means that for purposes of the breach
of contract and quantum meruit causes of action, they would be protected by the
Immunity Rule because they were the agent and manager of WIN Partners and acted
with its authority. (SACC, ¶ 7.) No exceptions would apply for those two causes
of action. 
 
However, Cross-Complainants also make the argument in their
opposition that Cross-Defendants are the alter egos of WIN Partners. They point
to allegations in the SACC that Fakir is the sole manager of WIN (SACC, ¶ 4)
and that limited discovery showed that Fakir and Hussain failed to segregate
funds, diverted funds, undercapitalization etc. (SACC, ¶ 8.) Cross-Complainants
argue that these allegations sufficiently demonstrate that WIN Partners is
nothing more than the alter ego of Fakir and Hussain. Cross-Defendants argue in
their reply that this is insufficient to demonstrate that they are alter egos
because the complaint itself contains no facts regarding WIN Partners’ assets
compared to its debts for the purpose of determining adequate capitalization.
Cross-Defendants also argue that the limited discovery which Cross-Complainants
cite lies outside of the four corners of the cross-complaint. 
 
That being said, in Rutherford Holdings, LLC v. Plaza Del
Rey (2014) 223 Cal.App.4th 221, the Court of Appeal held that alter ego
allegations were sufficient where the plaintiff had alleged that “Caswell
dominated and controlled PDR; that a unity of interest and ownership existed
between Caswell and PDR; that PDR was a mere shell and conduit for Caswell's
affairs; that PDR was inadequately capitalized; that PDR failed to abide by the
formalities of corporate existence; that Caswell used PDR assets as her own;
and that recognizing the separate existence of PDR would promote injustice.
These allegations mirror those held to pass muster in First Western Bank
& Trust Co. v. Bookasta…As in First Western, “[a]ssuming these
facts can be proved, [Caswell] ... may be held liable ... under the alter ego
principle.” (Citation.) ¶ Defendants argue that Rutherford failed to allege
specific facts to support an alter ego theory, but Rutherford was required to
allege only “ultimate rather than evidentiary facts.” (Citation.)” (Rutherford
Holdings, 223 Cal.App.4th at 235-236.)
 
This would indicate that the allegations of
Cross-Complainants concerning WIN Partners and the individual
Cross-Complainants that “there is commingling of funds and assets, failure to
segregate funds, diversion of funds, the treatment of the corporation assets as
his own, a failure to maintain adequate corporate records, a failure to
adequately capitalize the business, absence of corporate assets, and
undercapitalization” (SACC, ¶ 8) are sufficient to show alter ego.
 
Based on the foregoing, Cross-Complainants have sufficiently
alleged that Cross-Defendants are alter egos of WIN Partners. Therefore, it is
necessary to individually address the First and Fourth Causes of Action, as
well as the Second and Third Causes of Action.
 
For the First Cause of Action for breach of contract, “To
state a cause of action for breach of contract, [a plaintiff] must plead the
contract, his performance of the contract or excuse for nonperformance,
[defendant’s] breach and the resulting damage. (Citation.) Further, the
complaint must indicate on its face whether the contract is written, oral, or
implied by conduct. (Citation.)” (Otworth v. Southern Pac. Transportation Co.
(1985) 166 Cal.App.3d 452, 458–59; Careau & Co. v. Security Pacific
Business Credit, Inc. (1990) 222 Cal.App.3d 1371, 1388.) In examining a
breach of contract claim, the court is required to examine the terms, or at
least the legal effect of the contract. (Otworth v. Southern Pac.
Transportation Co., supra, 166 Cal.App.3d at 459 [“If the action is
based on an alleged breach of a written contract, the terms must be set out
verbatim in the body of the complaint or a copy of the written instrument must
be attached and incorporated by reference”]; Construction Protective
Services, Inc. v. TIG Specialty Ins. Co. (2002) 29 Cal.4th 189, 198–199
[“In an action based on a written contract, a plaintiff may plead the legal
effect of the contract rather than its precise language”].)
 
Cross-Complainants did not attach or incorporate the written
invoice into their Second Amended Cross-Complaint, so it is unknown the extent
to which the individual Cross-Defendants allegedly breached the contract. Cross-Defendants’
demurrer to the First Cause of Action is sustained without leave to amend.
 
For the Second and Third Causes of Action, fraud and
negligent misrepresentation are torts for which Cross-Defendants could be
personally liable under the theory discussed in Fleet. The Immunity Rule
does not apply to these two causes of action. They shall be addressed individually
to determine their sufficiency.
 
For the Second Cause of Action for Fraud, “‘The elements of
fraud, which give rise to the tort action for deceit, are (a) misrepresentation
(false representation, concealment, or nondisclosure); (b) knowledge of falsity
(or “scienter”); (c) intent to defraud, i.e., to induce reliance; (d) justifiable
reliance; and (e) resulting damage.’” … [¶] ‘Promissory fraud’ is a subspecies
of the action for fraud and deceit. A promise to do something necessarily
implies the intention to perform; hence, where a promise is made without such
intention, there is an implied misrepresentation of fact that may be actionable
fraud.” (Lazar v. Superior Court (1996) 12 Cal.4th 631, 638.)
 
“‘Active concealment or suppression of facts by a
nonfiduciary “is the equivalent of a false representation, i.e., actual fraud.”
[Citation.] (Citation).)’ A fraud claim based upon the suppression or
concealment of a material fact must involve a defendant who had a legal duty to
disclose the fact. (Civ. Code, § 1710, subd. (3) [a deceit includes “[t]he
suppression of a fact, by one who is bound to disclose it, or who gives
information of other facts which are likely to mislead for want of
communication of that fact”]; Citation.)” (Hoffman v. 162 North Wolfe LLC
(2014) 228 Cal.App.4th 1178, 1186.) “[T]he elements of an action for fraud and
deceit based on concealment are: (1) the defendant must have concealed or
suppressed a material fact, (2) the defendant must have been under a duty to
disclose the fact to the plaintiff, (3) the defendant must have intentionally
concealed or suppressed the fact with the intent to defraud the plaintiff, (4)
the plaintiff must have been unaware of the fact and would not have acted as he
did if he had known of the concealed or suppressed fact, and (5) as a result of
the concealment or suppression of the fact, the plaintiff must have sustained
damage.” (Marketing West, Inc. v. Sanyo Fisher (USA) Corp. (1992) 6
Cal.App.4th 603, 612–613.) 
 
For the Third Cause of Action, “Negligent misrepresentation
is a separate and distinct tort, a species of the tort of deceit. ‘Where the
defendant makes false statements, honestly believing that they are true, but
without reasonable ground for such belief, he may be liable for negligent
misrepresentation, a form of deceit.’” (Bily v. Arthur Young & Co.
(1992) 3 Cal.4th 370, 407.) “‘The elements of fraud, which give rise to the
tort action for deceit, are (a) misrepresentation (false representation,
concealment, or nondisclosure); (b) knowledge of falsity (or ‘scienter’); (c)
intent to defraud, i.e., to induce reliance; (d) justifiable reliance; and (e)
resulting damage.’” (Lazar v. Superior Court (1996) 12 Cal.4th 631,
638.)
 
Cross-Complainants allege that the individual
Cross-Defendants made misrepresentations regarding what WIN Partners would do. Cross-Complainants
allege that they “materially relied on the misrepresentations made by the
Individual Cross-Defendants, individually and on behalf of WIN, in entering
into the HKMI Deal and would not have entered into the HKMI Deal and/or not
have the Cross-Defendants be a part of the transaction but for such
representations.” (SACC, ¶ 49.) Though Cross-Complainants have alleged that the
individual Cross-Defendants made the misrepresentations on behalf of themselves
as individuals, it is unclear from the SACC how that is the case. The SACC does
not explain how the individual Cross-Defendants had knowledge of the falsity of
the statements they were making. Simply stating that Fakir and Hussain did
something individually is not sufficient to demonstrate that Fakir and Hussain
were acting on their own behalf or had knowledge of the falsity of their
statements. From the allegations in the SACC, it appears that they were making
the statement on behalf of WIN Partners, not themselves.
 
Based on the foregoing, Cross-Defendants’ demurrer to the
Second and Third Causes of Action is sustained without leave to amend, as
Cross-Defendants have had several chances to sufficiently amend their
cross-complaint but have failed to do so.
 
For the Fourt Cause of Action for Quantum Meruit, it
requires a party to “establish both that he or she was acting pursuant to
either an express or implied request for services from the defendant and that
the services rendered were intended to and did benefit the defendant.” (Ochs
v. PacifiCare of California (2004) 115 Cal.App.4th 782, 794.) “‘The measure
of recovery in quantum meruit is the reasonable value of the services rendered
provided they were of direct benefit to the defendant.’” (Maglica v. Maglica
(1998) 66 Cal.App.4th 442, 449.)
 
Similar to the breach of contract claim, Cross-Complainants
have failed to establish what services the individual Cross-Defendants failed
to pay for. Accordingly, Cross-Defendants’ demurrer to this cause of action is
sustained without leave to amend.
 
ORDER
 
The demurrer of Cross-Defendant WIN Partners is overruled in
its entirety. WIN Partners’ motion to strike is granted for p. 17:5-15 only.
 
The demurrer of Cross-Defendants Fakir and Hussain is
sustained without leave to amend for all causes of actions. 
 
Moving parties to give notice to all parties.