  Case Number:  23STCV14015    Hearing Date:   December 17, 2024    Dept:  39  
 TENTATIVE RULING
 



DEPT:


39




HEARING DATE:


December 17, 2024




CASE NUMBER:


23STCV14015




MOTION:  


Motion to Compel Deposition




MOVING PARTY:


Plaintiffs Isamar Cervantes and Yolanda Rodriguez




OPPOSING PARTY:


Defendant Kia Motors America, Inc.



 
MOTIONS
            Plaintiffs
Isamar Cervantes and Yolanda Rodriguez (“Plaintiffs”) move to compel Defendant Kia
Motors America, Inc. (“Defendant”) to produce its person most qualified to
testify at deposition and to produce documents set forth in its deposition
notice.  Defendant opposes the motion.
ANALYSIS
Pursuant to Code
of Civil Procedure section 2025.450, if a party to the action fails to appear
for deposition after service of a deposition notice and the party has not
served a valid objection to that notice, the party giving the notice may move
for an order to compel the deponent to attend and testify at deposition.  (Code Civ. Proc., §2025.450, subd. (a).)  
Plaintiffs served
Defendant with a notice of deposition. 
Defendant has not produced its person most knowledgeable for deposition.  Accordingly, the Court grants the motion to
compel Defendant’s deposition.  (Code
Civ. Proc., § 2025.450, subd. (a).)  
In opposition, Defendant
argues it properly objected to Plaintiffs’ deposition notice “on the grounds
that the matter was vague and ambiguous, not limited to the Subject Vehicle, is
not reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence,
etc.”  Defendant also objected “based on
privilege and work product or premature disclosure of expert opinion to
specific matters of examination.”  (Opposition
to Motion to Compel Deposition, p. 5.)  If
Defendant sought to avoid producing a person most qualified to testify or
documents on specified topics, Defendant was required to seek a protective
order so “[t]hat certain matters not be inquired into.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.420, subd. (b)(9).)  Defendant did not do so.  The scope of the requested information is not
an “error or irregularity” in the deposition notice, to which Defendant could
object.  (See Code Civ. Proc., §
2025.410.)  The Court finds that
Plaintiffs’ deposition notice is not vague and ambiguous to the extent Defendant
cannot identify a person most knowledgeable to testify on its behalf or produce
documents responsive to Plaintiffs’ requests.  Thus, Defendant’s objections are without
merit.
The Court declines
to impose sanctions against Defendant because Defendant did stipulate to
produce its person most knowledgeable for deposition on a date certain.  (See Opposition to Motion to Compel
Deposition, p. 4.)  As such, the Court
finds that an award of sanctions against Defendant would be unjust.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.450, subd. (g).)  
CONCLUSION AND ORDER
Plaintiffs’ motion to compel Defendant to
produce its person most qualified to testify on specified topics and to produce
documents is granted.  Defendant is to
produce its person most qualified for deposition within 30 days of notice of
this order, unless Plaintiffs stipulate otherwise.  The scope of the deposition is as set forth
in Exhibit 11 to the Declaration of Sasha B. Dismuke.
Plaintiffs are ordered to provide notice of
this order and to file proof of service of same.
 