  Case Number:  22AHCV00264    Hearing Date:   October 22, 2024    Dept:  NCB  
Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
North
Central District
Department B
 



 
Meredith
  paz,
  et al.,
                        Plaintiffs,
            v.
 
CITY OF SIERRA MADRE., 
                        Defendant.


 
  Case No.:  22AHCV00264
 
  Hearing Date:  October 22, 2024
 
[TENTATIVE] order RE:
motion to compel further responses



 
BACKGROUND
A.   
Allegations 
            Plaintiffs Meredith Paz and Victor
Paz (“Plaintiffs”) allege that their home is a wood-frame, single family,
one-story dwelling located at 1100 Arno Drive in Sierra Madre.  They allege that Defendant City of Sierra
Madre (“City”) controls and operates a main water pipe located along and
directly above Plaintiffs’ property. 
Plaintiffs allege that beginning August 1, 2021, they noticed a large
amount of water on and underneath the property and that water continues to seep
onto and under their property.  They
allege that City’s conduct, including but not limited to their construction,
design, management, maintenance, operation, and/or control of its water pipes,
as well as its failures to appreciate the impact and danger the water pipes
would cause adjacent real property caused Plaintiffs damages.  
            The first amended complaint (“FAC”),
filed June 23, 2022, alleges causes of action for: (1) inverse condemnation;
(2) negligence (Gov’t Code, § 815.2(a)); (3) dangerous condition of public
property (Gov’t Code, § 835); and (4) nuisance.   
B.     Cross-Complaint
On July 28, 2022, City
filed a cross-complaint against Roes 1-10 for: (1) equitable indemnity; (2)
contribution; and (3) declaratory relief. 
C.    
Motion on Calendar
On September 4, 2024, Plaintiffs filed a
motion to compel City’s further responses to Form Interrogatories, set one
(“FROG”).  
On October 9, 2024, City filed an
opposition brief.  
On October 14, 2024, Plaintiffs filed a
reply brief. 
DISCUSSION 
            Plaintiffs move to
compel City’s further responses to FROG Nos. 1.1, 15.1, and 17.1.  
FROG 1.1 asks City to state the name,
address, telephone number, and relationship to it of each person who prepared
or assisted in the preparation of the responses to the FROGs.  City responded: “Responding Party and its
attorneys of record, Bordin Semmer LLP, 6100 Center Drive, Suite 1100, Los
Angeles, CA 90045; (323) 457-2110.”  Plaintiffs
argue that they are entitled to know the identity of the persons involved in preparing
the responses so that they can later be cross-examined.  While City has identified itself and its
attorneys of record in its response, City fails to provide any names of
individuals and the relationship of each person who prepared or assisted in
preparing the responses.  A further
response is warranted.  The motion is
granted as to FROG No. 1.1.  
FROG No. 15.1 asks City to identify each denial of a
material allegation and each special or affirmative defense in the pleadings
and for each: (a) state all facts upon which it bases the denial or special or
affirmative defense; (b) state the contact information of all persons who have
knowledge of those facts; and (c) identify all documents and other tangible
things that support
its denial or special or affirmative defense, and
state the contact information of the person who has each document.  City objected that the term “material” was
vague, it invoked the attorney-client privilege and attorney work product
doctrine, and it objected that the FROG called for expert opinion and sought
legal conclusions/reasoning/theories. 
Without waiving objections, City responded that a general denial was appropriate
under CCP § 431.30 and that the FROG was premature as to affirmative defenses,
as discovery was still ongoing.  In its
opposition, City states that it has no objection to providing a supplemental
response now that discovery has progressed, and further information has been
obtained.  (See Opp. Separate Statement
at p.2.)  In light of City’s
representations that it will provide further responses, the Court grants the
motion as to FROG No. 15.1.  
FROG No. 17.1 asks if City’s response to each RFA served
with the FROGs is an unqualified admission and, if not, for each response that
is not an unqualified admission: (a) state the RFA number; (b) state all facts
upon which the response is based; (c) state the contact information of all
persons with knowledge of those facts; and (d) identify all documents that
support the response and contact information of persons who has each
document/thing.  The FROG is directed to
RFA Nos. 1-52.  However, a copy of the
RFAs is not provided with the moving, opposition, or reply papers, and the
separate statements do not provide the text of the RFAs.  The Court notes that Plaintiffs filed a
motion to compel City’s further responses to the RFAs, which is currently
scheduled for December 13, 2024.  As
such, the motion regarding FROG No. 17.1 is better determined following the
Court’s ruling on the motion to compel further responses to the RFAs.  Thus, the motion as to FROG No. 17.1 is
continued to December 13, 2024.    
Plaintiffs request sanctions
in the amount of $2,510 against City and its counsel of record.[1]  City argues that sanctions are inappropriate
since City acted with substantial justification with its objections/responses
and that the requested sanctions are excessive.  The Court will defer the issues of sanctions
on this motion to compel further responses to the FROG to December 13, 2024 to
be heard with the additional 4 motions to compel further responses set for that
date.    
CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
Plaintiffs
Meredith Paz and Victor Paz’s motion to compel Defendant City of Sierra Madre’s
further responses to FROG is granted as to FROG Nos. 1.1 and 15.1.  Defendant is ordered to provide further
responses within 20 days of notice of this order. 
The motion to
compel City’s further response to FROG No. 17.1 and the issue of sanctions is
continued to December 13, 2024 to be heard concurrently with the motions to
compel City’s further responses to Form Interrogatories (set two), Request for
Admissions (set one), Request for Admissions (set two), and Request for
Production of Documents (set one).  
Plaintiffs shall
provide notice of this order. 
 
 
DATED: 
October 22, 2024                                        ___________________________
                                                                              John
Kralik
                                                                              Judge
of the Superior Court 


