 Case Number:  21STCV38616    Hearing Date:   September 28, 2023    Dept:  72  
SUPERIOR COURT
OF CALIFORNIA 
COUNTY OF LOS
ANGELES 
 
DEPARTMENT 72 
 
TENTATIVE RULING 
 



Milagro Paz Umanzor, et al.
 
 
                                 
  Plaintiffs, 
   
         v. 
 
 
Sylvester
  Malone, et al.
 
                                 
  Defendants. 
  


 Case No: 21STCV38616
 
 
 
  
 
 Hearing Date:  September
  28, 2023
 Calendar Number:  1



 
 
Unopposed Motion to Be
Relieved as Counsel filed by Counsel Ryan D. White, Counsel for Plaintiffs.
 
Recommended Ruling:  Counsel’s Motion to be Relieved as Counsel
for Plaintiffs is GRANTED.
 
 
Background 
 
          This is
an action arising from a landlord tenant dispute regarding the conditions of
the premises, in which the Plaintiffs resided in.  Plaintiffs Milagro Paz Umanzor; Elmer Isaias
Orellana Umanzor; Jason Orellana; Belynda Orellana; Maribel Garcia; Juan
Francisco Garcia Gill; Uriel Garcia; Luzelena Garcia; Oziel Garcia; Evelyn
Garcia; Angelica Maria Torres; Hugo De La Cruz; Kiara De La Cruz; Karina De La
Cruz; Luis Garcia Delgado; Brian De La Cruz Torres; Maria Magdalena Delgado;
Joel Pinto; Edgar Cuevas; and David Avila (hereinafter collectively,
"Plaintiffs"), filed a Complaint against Defendants Sola Impact Fund
II, LP; Sola Impact Fund II GG, LLC; Sola Rentals, Inc.; Sola Management, LLC;
Sola Impact Rental Company, Inc.; and Martin Muto (hereinafter collectively,
"Defendants"), as well as Sylvester Malone, Dorothy N. Malone and
DOES 1-100, inclusive, on October 19, 2021, alleging thirteen separate causes
of action against each Defendant. The Complaint alleges that Defendants failed
to fulfill their duties as property owners and managers, and as a result,
Plaintiffs were exposed to uninhabitable living conditions, including exposure
to infestations and damaged housing structures.
 
          On May 26, 2023, Plaintiffs’ Counsel Ryan
D. White filed the instant motions to be relieved as counsel as to all
Plaintiffs.   
 
 
Summary 
 
Moving Arguments 
 
Counsel Ryan D. White seeks
to be relieved as counsel for Plaintiffs as Counsel has been appointed to serve
as Judge in the Los Angeles County Superior Court.  
 
Opposing Arguments 
 
None. 
 
Legal Standard 
 
“The question of granting or
denying an application of an attorney to withdraw as counsel (Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 284, subd. (2)) is one which lies within the sound discretion of the trial
court ‘having in mind whether such withdrawal might work an injustice in the
handling of the case.’  [Citation.]”  (People v. Prince (1968)
268 Cal.App.2d 398, 406 [internal quotations omitted].)  The court should
also consider whether the attorney’s “withdrawal can be accomplished without
undue prejudice to the client’s interests.”  (Ramirez v. Sturdivant
(1994) 21 Cal.App.4th 904, 915.) 
  
California Rules of Court,
rule 3.1362 requires that the following be submitted in support of an
attorney’s Motion to Be Relieved as Counsel pursuant Code of Civil Procedure
section 284, subdivision (2): (1) a notice of motion and motion directed to the
client (made on Notice of Motion and Motion to Be Relieved as Counsel—Civil
(Judicial Council Form, MC-051)); (2) a declaration stating in general terms
and without compromising the confidentiality of the attorney-client
relationship why a motion under Code of Civil Procedure section 284,
subdivision (2) is brought instead of filing a consent under Code of Civil
Procedure section 284, subdivision (1) (made on Declaration in Support of
Attorney’s Motion to Be Relieved as Counsel—Civil (Judicial Council Form,
MC-052)); (3) a proof of service evidencing service of the notice of motion and
motion, declaration, and proposed order on the client and on all other parties
who have appeared in the case; and (4) a proposed order relieving counsel
(prepared on Order Granting Attorney’s Motion to Be Relieved as Counsel—Civil
(Judicial Council Form, MC-053)).  (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1362,
subd. (a), (c), (d), (e).) 
 
Discussion 
 
Counsel seeks to be relieved as counsel
for each Plaintiff.
 
Counsel filed a Notice of Motion and Motion to Be Relieved as Counsel
(MC-051), an Order Granting Attorney’s Motion to Be Relieved as Counsel
(MC-053), and a Declaration in Support of Attorney’s Motion to Be Relieved as
Counsel (MC-052) on the appropriate forms, as outlined within California Rules
of Court, rule 3.1362, subdivisions (a), (c), and (e). (Cal. Rules of Court,
rule 3.1362, subd. (a), (c), (e).) 
 
Plaintiffs will not be
prejudiced if Counsel’s motion is granted. Plaintiffs
continue to have three other counsel of record who will remain as counsel in
this matter. The next hearing in this matter is a Motion to be Relieved as Counsel on September 28, 2023.  The final conference on Final Status
Conference is on October 6, 2023. 
Trial is set to begin October
16, 2023.  However, the Court notes that
there is a hearing for a motion to leave to amend motion to leave the Complaint
and a hearing for summary adjudication, set for after the current trial
date.  Also on September 19, 2023, the
parties stipulated to continue trial and related dates for no sooner than May
6, 2024. 
 
The
Court is satisfied that Counsel has a compelling reason to withdraw, given Counsel’s
appointment to the bench. (MC-052, Item
#2.) 
 
Conclusion 
 
Counsel’s
Motion to be Relieved as Counsel for Plaintiffs is GRANTED.