  Case Number:  20STCV22269    Hearing Date:   September 28, 2023    Dept:  72  
SUPERIOR COURT OF CALIFORNIA
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES
 
DEPARTMENT 72
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 



LUIS GARCIA, etc., 
 
                                  Plaintiff,
  
         v.
 
CAR AROMA SUPPLIES, INC., etc.,
 
                                  Defendant.
 
 


 Case No:  20STCV22269
 
 
 
 
 
 Hearing Date:  September 28, 2023
 Calendar
  Number:  3



 
 
 
Pursuant to the Court’s April 27, 2023 minute
order in which the Court granted Plaintiff’s motion for preliminary approval of
class settlement, the Court set a final fairness hearing and ordered class
counsel to submit briefing and supporting declarations prior to the final
fairness hearing. Class counsel, however, submitted neither the briefing nor
supplemental declarations. 
 
The Court therefore
CONTINUES the final fairness hearing to Friday, October 27, 2023 at 9:30 a.m.
in this department. The Court orders class counsel to file the required
briefing and declarations with the Court by the close of business on Friday,
October 20, 2023.

 
 
Background
 
          On June 12, 2020, Plaintiff Luis Garcia
(“Plaintiff”), as an individual and on behalf of all aggrieved employees, filed
a complaint for damages, injunctive relief, and restitution against Defendant
Car Aroma Supplies, Inc. (“Defendant”) alleging causes of action for: (1)
violation of PAGA for failure to pay all wages including overtime; (2)
violation of PAGA for failure to provide meal periods; (3) violation of PAGA
for failure to provide rest periods; (4) violation of PAGA for failure to pay
wages of terminated or resigned employees; (5) violation of PAGA for failure to
provide accurate wage statements; and (6) violation of PAGA for failure to
reimburse for necessary expenditures. On October 30, 2020, Defendant filed an
Answer to the complaint. 
          
On July 20, 2022, Plaintiff
filed a motion for preliminary approval of class settlement. On August 11,
2022, after hearing and oral argument, the Court denied Plaintiff’s motion on
the grounds that the complaint only set forth claims under the Private
Attorneys General Act (“PAGA”) and no class action claims were asserted. The
Court’s minute order denying the motion stated that Plaintiff sought the
Court’s approval of a class settlement in a case in which no class action was
asserted. 
 
          On October 7, 2022, Plaintiff filed
the operative First Amended Complaint (“FAC”), which is a class action brought
on of behalf of Plaintiff and the class he seeks to represent, alleging causes
of action for: (1) failure to pay all wages including minimum and overtime
wages; (2) failure to provide rest periods or compensation in lieu thereof; (3)
failure to provide meal periods or compensation in lieu thereof; (4) failure to
keep accurate payroll records; (5) failure to pay wages of terminated or
resigned employees; (6) failure to reimburse for necessary expenditures; (7)
Business and Professions Code §§ 17200 et seq.—unfair/unlawful business
practices; and (8) violation of the California Labor Code Private Attorneys
General Act. 
 
          On October 10, 2022, Plaintiff filed a
renewed notice of motion and motion for preliminary approval of class
settlement for an order granting preliminary approval of the proposed class
action settlement between Plaintiff and Defendant. On April 27, 2023, a hearing
occurred on Plaintiff’s motion and the Court granted Plaintiff’s motion for preliminary
approval of class settlement. The Court’s minute order states that “[p]rior to
the final fairness hearing, Class Counsel must submit briefing and supporting
declarations regarding a lodestar calculation of the attorney’s fees sought.
The Court must determine that the attorney’s fees sought are reasonably related
to the work performed before any fees are awarded.” Moreover, the Court ordered
the class representative to “submit a declaration explaining why he should be
compensated for the expense or risk incurred in conferring a benefit on other
members of the class. The declaration must be specific enough in the form of
quantification of time and effort expended on the litigation, and in the form
of reasoned explanation of financial or other risks incurred by plaintiff for
this Court to conclude that an enhancement award was necessary to induce plaintiff
to participate in this lawsuit.”  
 
          The Court’s April 27, 2023 minute
order provides that the motion for final approval documents, along with
supporting documents, must be filed by September 6, 2023.  The Court’s minute order set the fairness
hearing for September 28, 2023. 
 
          The Court finds that Plaintiff has not
submitted the required documents in order for the Court to proceed with the
fairness hearing. No briefing or supporting declarations regarding the lodestar
calculation of attorney’s fees sought has been filed. Moreover, the class
representative has not submitted a declaration explaining why he should be
compensated for the expense or risk incurred in conferring a benefit on other
members of the class. The Court cannot proceed with ascertaining fairness until
the aforementioned documents are provided to the Court. 
 
In order for class
counsel to comply with the instructions set forth in this Court’s April 27,
2023 minute order, the Court CONTINUES
the final fairness hearing to Friday, October 27, 2023 at 9:30 a.m. in this
department. The Court orders class counsel to file the
required briefing and declarations with the Court by the close of business on
Friday, October 20, 2023. 
 
 
 
 