 Case Number:  22STCV09612    Hearing Date:   September 30, 2024    Dept:  50  
 
Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
Department
50
 



GARY HUERTA,
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
MICHAEL SIMMS, et al.
                        Defendants.


Case No.:


22STCV09612




Hearing Date:


September 30, 2024




Hearing Time:


10:00 a.m.




[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: 
 
MOTION FOR
  ATTORNEYS’ FEES AGAINST DEFENDANTS CENA KITCHEN AND PLANT RANCH




AND RELATED CROSS-ACTIONS


 



 
Background 
On March 18, 2022,
Plaintiff Gary Huerta (“Huerta”) filed this action against Defendants Michael
Simms, Carmen Santillan, Plant Ranch, Inc. and Cena Kitchen, LLC. Plaintiff
filed the operative Third Amended Complaint on August 29, 2023, alleging causes
of action for 
(1) constructive fraud, (2) accounting,
(3) conversion, (4) breach of the operating agreement, 
(5) breach of fiduciary duty, (6)
declaratory relief, and (7) dissolution. 
On August 24, 2023, Plant
Ranch, Inc. and Cena Kitchen, LLC (jointly, “Cross-Complainants”) filed a
Cross-Complaint against Huerta, alleging causes of action for (1) breach of
fiduciary duty, (2) breach of contract (operating agreement), (3) breach of
contract (bylaws), and (4) declaratory relief.  
The Cross-Complaint
alleges, inter alia, that “[i]n 2016, Michael Simms (‘Simms’), Carmen
Santillan (‘Santillan’), and Huerta (collectively, the ‘Founders’) formed a
business originally called Cena Vegan…” (Cross-Compl., ¶ 7.) “In addition to
manufacturing plant-based proteins, Cena Vegan sold its products in Los Angeles
using food trucks...” (Cross-Compl., ¶ 8.) “In July 2019, the Founders decided
to split Cena Vegan into two businesses—Plant Ranch, Inc. (‘Plant Ranch’) and
Cena Kitchen, LLC (‘Cena Kitchen’). Plant Ranch would remain the wholesaler and
manufacturer of plant-based proteins, while Cena Kitchen would become the
restaurant, catering, and event services business. Each of the Founders owns a
one-third interest in both Plant Ranch and Cena Kitchen.” (Cross-Compl., ¶ 11.)
“Following the split, the understanding amongst the Founders was that…Huerta
would focus exclusively on the development of Plant Ranch.” (Compl., ¶ 14.) 
The Cross-Complaint
alleges, inter alia, that “Huerta breached his fiduciary duty to Plant
Ranch and its shareholders by committing the following acts, among others: a.
Repeatedly misrepresenting to investors that he was the only founder willing to
dedicate his full time to Plant Ranch, while simultaneously failing to disclose
that he was employed full-time at AT&T. b. Misrepresenting Santillan and
Sims’s willingness to dedicate their time to Plant Ranch in an effort to
persuade them to give up 10% of their shares as a condition of receiving
investment funds when such condition was not actually required by prospective
investors. c. Being unduly combative with the head of operations for Cedar
Lane, such that Cedar Lane declined the project, which lead to Trader Joe’s not
making a formal commitment to purchase from Plant Ranch. d. Unilaterally
terminating Mr. Freundlich as Plant Ranch’s corporate counsel without the
knowledge or consent of Santillan or Simms. e. Improperly commingling funds of
Plant Ranch and Cena Kitchen without the knowledge or consent of Santillan or
Simms. f. Charging personal and/or non-business-related expenses to Plant
Ranch’s Capital One credit card without the knowledge or consent of Santillan
or Simms. g. Refusing to ensure timely payment of debts that Plant Ranch
initially incurred while Huerta was in control, including, but not limited to,
premiums for Plant Ranch’s workers compensation insurance policies and rent
owed to Plant Ranch’s industrial kitchen landlord. h. Failing to properly
manage Plant Ranch’s finances, such that Plant Ranch became delinquent on rent,
lost hundreds of thousands of dollars, and spent money on unnecessary
extravagances, such as expensive marketing consultants, rather than ensuring
critical needs were met, such as payroll and rent.” (Cross-Compl., ¶ 42.) 
On January 30, 2024,
Cross-Complainants filed a request for dismissal of the Cross-Complaint,
without prejudice. Dismissal was entered on January 30, 2024. 
Huerta now moves “for an
order determining that, as the prevailing party on the dismissal of the
Cross-Complaint filed on behalf of Defendants Plant Ranch, Inc….and Cena
Kitchen, LLC…[Huerta] is entitled to an award of attorneys’ fees and costs,
against Plant Ranch and Cena Kitchen, jointly and severally.” Cross-Complainants
oppose. 
Discussion
A.    Entitlement to Attorney’s Fees
In the motion,
Huerta asserts that “[e]ven though
the voluntary dismissal prohibits Plaintiff from recovering his fees on the
contract claims, recovery is still allowed under the tort claims.” (Mot. at p. 5:8-9.) It appears that Huerta asserts that the “tort
claims” are Cross-Complainants’ causes of action for breach of fiduciary duty
and declaratory relief. Huerta argues that “Plaintiff is the prevailing
party and under the operating agreement with Cena Kitchen Plaintiff is entitled
to his attorneys’ fees for all claims[1]
including the claims brought for breach of fiduciary duty and declaratory
relief.” (Mot. at p. 2:7-10.)
Civil
Code section 1717, subdivision (a) provides, “[i]n any action on a contract, where the
contract specifically provides that attorney’s fees and costs, which are incurred
to enforce that contract, shall be awarded either to one of the parties or to
the prevailing party, then the party who is determined to be the party
prevailing on the contract, whether he or she is the party specified in the
contract or not, shall be entitled to reasonable attorney’s fees in addition to
other costs.” Pursuant to Civil Code
section 1717, subdivision (b)(2), “[w]here an action has been voluntarily
dismissed or dismissed pursuant to a settlement of the case, there shall be no
prevailing party for purposes of this section.” 
In the motion, Huerta cites
to Khan v. Shim (2016) 7 Cal.App.5th 49, 56-57, where the Court of Appeal
noted as follows: 
 
“…section 1717 has
a very important limitation. The statute, including its ban on the award of
fees in the event of a pretrial dismissal, applies only to “action[s] on a
contract.” (§ 1717, subd. (a).) What happens
where, as here, a party brings both contract claims and tort causes of action
as well and then dismisses the entire complaint before trial? In Santisas,
the Supreme Court was asked to decide whether a defendant could recover any
fees from a plaintiff who had “voluntarily dismissed before trial an
action asserting both tort and contract claims, all of which [arose] from a … contract
containing a broadly worded attorney fee provision … . [I]s any or all of such
recovery precluded by either Civil Code section
1717 or [the] decision in Olen, supra,
21 Cal.3d 218?” (Santisas, supra, 17
Cal.4th at p. 602.)
 
The court held that neither section 1717 nor the Olen decision
created a general rule against enforcing contractual attorney fee provisions
after a pretrial dismissal. (Santisas, supra,
17 Cal.4th at pp. 619, 623.) In analyzing whether a pretrial dismissal
allows for the recovery of attorney fees for noncontractual claims, the Supreme
Court noted that under Code of Civil Procedure section
1032, subdivision (a)(4), the definition of “‘prevailing party’” includes
“‘a defendant in whose favor a dismissal is entered,’” which could
apply to voluntary pretrial dismissals. (Santisas,
supra, 17 Cal.4th at p. 606.) That statute further provides that
“a prevailing party is entitled as a matter of right to recover costs in any
action or proceeding.” ((Id., § 1032, subd. (b).) “Costs,” moreover, includes attorney
fees “when authorized by … [¶] … [c]ontract.” (Code
Civ. Proc., § 1033.5, subd. (a)(10)(A).)
 
Therefore, the Supreme Court concluded, whether a
party which has voluntarily dismissed its tort claims before trial will be
liable for its opponent’s attorney fees spent in defending those tort claims is
determined by the contract, and the fee provision, “depending upon its
wording, may afford the defendant a contractual right, not affected by section 1717, to recover attorney fees incurred in
litigating the [noncontractual] causes of action.” (Santisas,
supra, 17 Cal.4th at p. 617, italics added.).” (Emphasis in original.) 
The Court of
Appeal in Khan found that “[s]o, the rule to be applied
here, developed through the decades with various twists and turns, is as
follows: Insofar as Shim seeks to recover attorney fees for his
defense against Khan’s contract claims, this recovery is prohibited by section 1717(b)(2); insofar as Shim seeks to
recover attorney fees for his defense against Khan’s tort claims, that
depends on the wording of the parties’ fee provision and whether it is broad
enough to encompass torts.” ((Khan v. Shim, supra, 7 Cal.App.5th at p. 57.)

Here, the Cross-Complaint
alleges that “[t]he Operating Agreement of Cena Kitchen, LLC (‘Operating
Agreement’), entered into on August
1, 2019, is a legally enforceable document through which the members of Cena
Kitchen agreed to abide by and be bound by certain obligations, rules, and
requirements.” (Cross-Compl., ¶ 52.) Huerta notes that a copy of this Operating
Agreement is attached as Exhibit “B” to the Cross-Complaint. (Cross-Compl. ¶
52, Ex. B.) Huerta cites to Section 12.15 of the
Operating Agreement, which provides, “Section
12.15Attorneys’ Fees. If any party hereto institutes any legal
suit, action, or proceeding, including arbitration, against another party in
respect of a matter arising out of or relating to this Agreement, the
prevailing party in the suit, action, or proceeding shall be entitled to
receive, in addition to all other damages to which it may be entitled, the
costs incurred by such party in conducting the suit, action, or proceeding,
including reasonable attorneys’ fees and expenses and court costs.”
(Cross-Compl. ¶ 52, Ex. B, emphasis in original.) Huerta asserts that pursuant
to this provision, “[a]s a result of being the prevailing party on the tort
claims, Plaintiff is entitled to his attorneys’ fees of $20,590 incurred
regarding the same.” (Mot. at p. 6:4-5.) 
In the
opposition, Cross-Complainants assert that “Huerta…has no legal basis for an award of
attorneys’ fees against either Cross-Complainant on any of the causes of action
alleged in the voluntarily dismissed Cross-Complaint.” (Opp’n at p. 2:9-10.) As
discussed, Huerta acknowledges in the motion that “the voluntary dismissal
prohibits Plaintiff from recovering his fees on the contract claims…” (Mot. at
p. 5:8-9.) As set forth above, Civil Code section 1717,
subdivision (b)(2) provides that 
“[w]here an action has been voluntarily dismissed or dismissed pursuant
to a settlement of the case, there shall be no prevailing party for purposes of
this section.” 
As to the first cause of
action for breach of fiduciary duty, Cross-Complainants note that this cause of
action is alleged by “Cross-Complainant Plant Ranch Against Huerta…”
(Cross-Compl., p. 7:4, emphasis added.) The first cause of action alleges, inter
alia, that that “Huerta breached his fiduciary duty to Plant Ranch and its
shareholders” by committing certain specified acts. (Cross-Compl., ¶ 42.) However,
as noted by Cross-Complainants, “the Agreement 
upon which Huerta relies as a basis for an award
of attorney’ fees is the Operating Agreement of Cena Kitchen, entered into
between Cena Kitchen, LLC, Huerta, Simms, and Santillan—not Plant Ranch.”
(Opp’n at p. 4:23-25, emphasis omitted.) The “Operating Agreement of Cena
Kitchen, LLC” attached as Exhibit B to the Cross-Complaint provides, inter
alia, that “THIS OPERATING AGREEMENT of Cena Kitchen, LLC, a California
limited liability company (the ‘Company’), is entered into as of August 1, 2019
by and among Gary Huerta (‘Gary’), Michael Simms (‘Michael’), and Carmela
Santillan (‘Carmen’) (collectively, the ‘Initial Members,’ and each an ‘Initial
Member’).” (Cross-Compl. ¶ 52, Ex. B, p. 1.) Cross-Complainants
assert that accordingly, “there is no fee provision from which Huerta’s
request would ostensibly flow as it relates to Plant Ranch.” (Opp’n at p.
5:9-10.) 
            In
the reply, Huerta notes that the Prayer for Relief of the Cross-Complaint
alleges that Cross-Complainants seek, inter alia, “an award of costs and
reasonable attorneys’ fees in accordance with Section
12.15 of the Cena Kitchen Operating Agreement.” (Cross-Compl., p. 12, ¶ 4.)
But the Court does not see how the existence of this allegation demonstrates
that Huerta is entitled to attorney’s fees in connection with the breach of
fiduciary duty and declaratory relief causes of action, and Huerta does not
cite to legal authority to support such proposition. 
            Huerta
also asserts that “the…cause of action for Breach of Fiduciary Duty
incorporates all factual allegations listed in paragraphs 1 through 38 which
encompass actions Plaintiff took on behalf of both companies. That cause of
action even states that Plaintiff improperly commingled funds between Plant
Ranch and Cena Kitchen. This is why Corporate Defendants sought attorneys’ fees
in this cause of action under the Operating Agreement.” (Reply at p. 4:4-9,
emphasis omitted.) 
            As
set forth above, the breach of fiduciary duty cause of action by Plant Ranch against
Huerta alleges, inter alia, that “Huerta breached his fiduciary duty to
Plant Ranch and its shareholders” by committing certain acts, including “[i]mproperly
commingling funds of Plant Ranch and Cena Kitchen without the knowledge or
consent of Santillan or Simms.” (Cross-Compl., ¶ 42(e).) But Huerta does not
appear to explain how this alleged act (or the breach of fiduciary cause of
action) purportedly “arise out of or relate to” the Operating Agreement of Cena
Kitchen, LLC. As discussed, the attorneys’ fees provision of the subject
Operating Agreement provides, “[i]f any party hereto institutes any legal suit,
action, or proceeding, including arbitration, against another party in
respect of a matter arising out of or relating to this Agreement, the
prevailing party in the suit, action, or proceeding shall be entitled to
receive, in addition to all other damages to which it may be entitled, the
costs incurred by such party in conducting the suit, action, or proceeding,
including reasonable attorneys’ fees and expenses and court costs.”
(Cross-Compl. ¶ 52, Ex. B, ¶ 12.15.) Huerta does not discuss any
provision of the Operating Agreement other than the attorneys’ fees provision,
or provide any analysis in the motion as to how the first cause of action of
the Cross-Complaint purportedly arises out of or relates to the Operating
Agreement. 
            Cross-Complainants also assert in
the opposition that “the fourth cause of action for declaratory relief asserted
by Cena Kitchen sounds in contract, not tort, thereby precluding Huerta from
recovering attorneys’ fees under that cause of action.” (Opp’n at p. 5:11-13.)
The declaratory relief cause of action is “[b]y Cross-Complainant Cena Kitchen Against
Huerta” and alleges, inter alia, that “[a]n
actual controversy has arisen and now exists between Cross-Complainant Cena
Kitchen and Cross-Defendant Huerta concerning their respective rights as defined
by the Operating Agreement. Specifically, Cena Kitchen contends that, pursuant
to the express language of the Operating Agreement, Huerta has resigned as a
member of Cena Kitchen because (i) on March 27, 2021, Huerta provided written
notice of his intent to resign; and (ii) since at least March 2021, Huerta has
worked less than 50% of full time per month in the aggregate over a 3 month
period (many times over)…Cross-Complainant Cena Kitchen is informed and
believes, and thereon alleges, that Huerta disputes this contention…Cross-Complainant
Cena Kitchen therefore desires a judicial declaration that Huerta resigned as a
member of Cena Kitchen as of March 27, 2021, pursuant to the express language
of Section 1.01 of the Operating Agreement.” (Cross-Compl., p. 11:3; Cross-Compl., ¶¶ 59-61.)
             In the opposition, Cross-Complainants cite to Exxess
Electronixx v. Heger Realty Corp. (1998) 64 Cal.App.4th 698, 710-711, where the Court of Appeal noted that “[a]
complaint for declaratory relief…sets forth facts showing the existence of
an actual controversy relating to the legal rights and duties of the respective
parties under a written instrument and requests that these rights and duties be
adjudged by the court. Plainly, a declaratory relief action that seeks to
establish the parties’ rights under a contract is an action sounding in
contract.” (Internal quotations and citations omitted.) Cross-Complainants
assert that “the Cross-Complaint’s Fourth Cause of Action seeks a ‘judicial
declaration that Huerta resigned as a member of Cena Kitchen as of March 27,
2021, pursuant to the express language of Section 1.01
of the Operating Agreement.’…In other words, it seeks a determination of the
legal rights of the parties arising under the Operating Agreement. There is no
question under these facts that the Declaratory Relief action sounds in
contract—and not tort.” (Opp’n at p. 5:23-27, emphasis omitted.) Huerta does
not appear to address or dispute this point in the reply. As discussed,
pursuant to Civil Code section 1717, subdivision (b)(2),
“[w]here an action has been voluntarily dismissed or dismissed pursuant to a
settlement of the case, there shall be no prevailing party for purposes of this
section.”
In light of the foregoing,
the Court does not find that Huerta has demonstrated his entitlement to
attorneys’ fees against Cross-Complainants. 
            Lastly,
the Court notes that in the reply, Huerta argues that “the Cross-Complaint was
filed in bad faith.” (Reply at p. 4:13-14.) Huerta appears to seek attorney’s
fees on these grounds under Code of Civil Procedure
section 128.5. (Reply at p. 4:14-15.) However, this argument was not raised
by Huerta in the motion. The Court notes that “¿[p]oints raised for the first
time in a reply brief will ordinarily not be considered, because such
consideration would deprive the respondent of an opportunity to counter the
argument.¿” (American Drug Stores, Inc. v. Stroh (1992) 10 Cal.App.4th 1446, 1453¿.)
Accordingly, the Cout declines to consider the points raised for the first time
in Huerta’s reply.  
Conclusion
            Based
on the foregoing, Huerta’s motion is denied.  
Cross-Complainants are
ordered to provide notice of this ruling.
 
DATED:  September 30, 2024                       ________________________________
Hon. Teresa A.
Beaudet
Judge, Los
Angeles Superior Court


