 Case Number:  22STCV33496    Hearing Date:   October 26, 2023    Dept:  30 ANDREW FLORES vs MONTEBELLO UNIFIED SCHOOL DISTRICT, et al.Demurrer to First Amended ComplaintTENTATIVEDISCUSSIONLegal Standard“[A] demurrer tests the legal sufficiency of the allegations in a complaint.” (Lewis v. Safeway, Inc. (2015) 235 Cal.App.4th 385, 388.) A demurrer can be used only to challenge defects that appear on the face of the pleading under attack or from matters outside the pleading that are judicially noticeable. (See Donabedian v. Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994 [in ruling on a demurrer, a court may not consider declarations, matters not subject to judicial notice, or documents not accepted for the truth of their contents].) For purposes of ruling on a demurrer, all facts pleaded in a complaint are assumed to be true, but the reviewing court does not assume the truth of conclusions of law. (Aubry v. Tri-City Hosp. Dist. (1992) 2 Cal.4th 962, 967.)Thursday, October 26, 2023AnalysisAntagonistic PleadingsThe primary argument HBIC puts forth is that Plaintiff’s pleadings are contradictory, arguing that where the facts are “antagonistic” to each other, the Demurrer should be sustained, relying on Steiner v. Rowley, (1950) 35 Cal. 2d 713, 718-19. HBIC argues that stating that Doe-1 worked for both Jorge’s Get Around and HBIC is the antagonistic fact in the FAC. Plaintiff counters, contending that Steiner applies to verified complaints, and that Plaintiff’s FAC is not verified. (See Travelers Indemnity Company of Connecticut v. Navigators Specialty Insurance Company (2021) 70 Cal.App.5th 341, fn. 15.) Upon reply, Defendant reiterates that a party can plead inconsistent causes of action, but not antagonistic facts.Here, the Court does not find the facts antagonistic or contradictory. Working for one, two, or even three of the defendants in the instant matter is not impossible and can be alleged. Defendant argues that Plaintiff plead that Doe-1 “was exclusively employed by Jorge’s Get Around…” (Reply Papers, 3:1-2), however, no statement claiming Doe-1 was exclusively employed appears in the FAC. Therefore, the FAC withstands this challenge from the Demurrer.Pleadings are accepted as trueAdditionally, HBIC argues that they never employed Doe-1. In their Demurrer, HBIC attack a vital element of the pleadings, arguing that their liability is cut off if Doe-1 was never hired nor employed by them. HBIC is correct, this is a crucial element that a theory of vicarious liability rests on. However, whether this is true is not a fact to be decided upon Demurrer. (See Committee on Children’s Television, Inc. v. General Foods Corp., (1983) 35 Cal.3d 197, 213-214. [“It is not the ordinary function of a demurrer to test the truth of the plaintiff's allegations or the accuracy with which he describes the defendant's conduct.”].) Therefore, as per the legal standard upon which a court evaluates a demurrer, the allegations are accepted as true.First and Second Causes of Action – Assault and BatteryHBIC’s final arguments challenge the sufficiency of the stated causes of action. “The essential elements of a cause of action for assault are: (1) defendant acted with intent to cause harmful or offensive contact, or threatened to touch plaintiff in a harmful or offensive manner; (2) plaintiff reasonably believed [he or] she was about to be touched in a harmful or offensive manner or it reasonably appeared to plaintiff that defendant was about to carry out the threat; (3) plaintiff did not consent to defendant’s conduct; (4) plaintiff was harmed; and (5) defendant’s conduct was a substantial factor in causing plaintiff’s harm.” (So v. Shin (2013) 212 Cal.App.4th 652, 668-669.)“The essential elements of a cause of action for battery are: (1) defendant touched plaintiff, or caused plaintiff to be touched, with the intent to harm or offend plaintiff; (2) plaintiff did not consent to the touching; (3) plaintiff was harmed or offended by defendant’s conduct; and (4) a reasonable person in plaintiff’s position would have been offended by the touching.” (So v. Shin (2013) 212 Cal.App.4th 652, 668-669.)Here, with regard to assault, Plaintiff alleged that Doe-1 intentionally punched him. This alone suffices to create reasonable apprehension that plaintiff may be imminently harmed, there was no consent, Plaintiff was harmed as alleged by the “pain and suffering, anxiety, embarrassment, humiliation, loss of self-esteem, shame, and extreme and severe mental anguish and emotional distress.” (FAC, ¶ 16,) Finally, Doe-1 was a substantial factor in causing the harm, but for the punch, Plaintiff would not have suffered harm. The same actions fulfill the elements for battery. Therefore, the first and second causes of action for assault and battery have been sufficiently alleged and survive demurrer. The Demurrer as to the first and second causes of action are overruled.Fourth Cause of Action – Negligent Hiring, Supervision or RetentionThe elements of a cause of action for negligent hiring, retention, or supervision are: (1) the employer’s hiring, retaining, or supervising an employee; (2) the employee was incompetent or unfit; (3) the employer had reason to believe undue risk of harm would exist because of the employment; and (4) harm occurs. (Evan F. v. Hughson United Methodist Church (1992) 8 Cal.App.4th 828, 836-837.)Here, Plaintiff alleges the necessary elements. Plaintiff alleges that Doe-1 was hired by HBIC. (FAC, ¶ 37.) Plaintiff alleges that Doe-1 was unfit and that his employers had reason to believe he was unfit prior to hiring. (FAC, ¶¶ 11 and 39.) Finally, Plaintiff suffered the harm when he was punched. Here, all the proper elements have been alleged, therefore, the fourth cause of action survives demurrer. The Demurrer as to the fourth cause of action is overruled.ConclusionTherefore, with no contradictory pleadings invalidating the FAC, with the facts as alleged accepted as true, and will all elements of each cause of action properly pled, HBIC’s Demurrer to Plaintiff’ FAC is OVERRULED. 