 Case Number:  23AHCV02312    Hearing Date:   July 9, 2024    Dept:  X    Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Joel L. Lofton,
Department X
 
 
HEARING DATE:      July 9, 2024                                        TRIAL DATE: not set
                                                           
CASE:                         Jennifer Merrick,
et al. v. Kamal Preet Singh, et al. 
 
CASE NO.:                 23AHCV02312
 
 
 
MOTION
TO COMPEL DEPOSITION

 
MOVING PARTY:               Plaintiff Jennifer Merrick
 
RESPONDING PARTY:      Defendant
Sidhu Truck Line, Inc.
 
SERVICE:                              Filed April 10, 2024
 
OPPOSITION:                       Filed June 25, 2024
 
REPLY:                                   none
 
RELIEF
REQUESTED 
 
             Plaintiff moves for an order
compelling Defendant to produce its person most qualified for deposition. 
 
BACKGROUND
 
             This is a personal injury case arising out of a
motor vehicle accident. Plaintiffs filed this complaint on October 5, 2023. 
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 
            Plaintiff’s motion to compel the deposition of
Defendant’s person most qualified is DENIED.
 
            Plaintiff’s request for sanctions is DENIED.
 
LEGAL STANDARD
 
Code of Civil Procedure section 2025.450, subdivision (a), provides: “If, after service
of a deposition notice, a party to the action or an officer, director, managing
agent, or employee of a party, or a person designated by an organization that
is a party under Section 2025.230, without having served a valid objection
under Section 2025.410, fails to appear for examination, or to proceed with it,
or to produce for inspection any document, electronically stored information,
or tangible thing described in the deposition notice, the party giving the
notice may move for an order compelling the deponent’s attendance and
testimony, and the production for inspection of any document, electronically
stored information, or tangible thing described in the deposition notice.”
 
            Code of
Civil Procedure section 2025.450 subdivision (b) requires that any motion under
subdivision (a) set forth specific facts showing good cause and a meet and
confer declaration or, when a deponent fails to attend the deposition, a
declaration stating the moving party contacted the deponent to inquire about
the nonappearance. 
 
DISCUSSION
 
            Plaintiff
moves for an order compelling the deposition testimony of Defendant’s person
most qualified. Plaintiff provides that on March 4, 2024, Plaintiffs served
Defendant with a notice of deposition for its person most qualified. (Mesaros
Decl. ¶ 2.) The deposition was noticed for April 5,
2024. (Ibid.) The notice indicated only one topic of deposition:
insurance. (Adzhemyan Decl., Exh. A.) Specifically, Plaintiff requests
that Defendant produce a deponent to testify about any liability policies
pertaining to accidents. (Ibid.) On April 1, 2024, Defendant objected to
Plaintiffs’ notice of deposition. (Adzhemyan Decl., ¶ 8, Exh. C.) The objections
to the deposition notice specifically stated that Defendant would not appear
because: 1) the deposition was unilaterally set; 2) it was burdensome and oppressive;
3) it impermissibly called for expert opinion; 4) it failed to comply the
“reasonable particularity” requirement set forth in Civil Procedure Section
2025.230, causing Defendant to resort to speculation; and 5) it was vague,
ambiguous and overbroad. (Id., Exh. C.) On April 5, 2024, Plaintiffs
proceeded with the deposition anyways. Defendant’s representatives did not
appear. (Mesaros Decl. ¶ 5.) 
 
            Defendant opposes the motion based on insufficient meet
and confer, and because Defendant has already produced the information that
Plaintiff seeks. Defendant’s counsel attempted to reach Plaintiff’s counsel on
five different occasions but did not receive a response. (Adzhemyan Decl., ¶¶
5-7.) Defendant has already provided its insurance information to Plaintiff in
response to discovery requests (Adzhemyan Decl., ¶¶ 11-14, Exhs. F-I.)
 
            Plaintiff
failed to meet and confer and set forth specific facts showing good cause.
 
CONCLUSION
 
            Plaintiff’s motion to compel the deposition of
Defendant’s person most qualified is DENIED.
 
            Plaintiff’s request for sanctions is DENIED.
 
            Moving
Party to give notice. 
 
 
            
Dated:   July 9, 2024                                       ___________________________________
                                                                                    Joel
L. Lofton
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court
 
 
Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must send an
email to the court indicating their 
intention to submit.  alhdeptx@lacourt.org
