 Case Number:  23STCV05765	    Hearing Date:   October 3, 2023    Dept:  W LAW OFFICES OF
ADELA Z. ULLOA, APC V. AREG SARKISSIAN, et al.
 
DEFENDANTS’
DEMURRER WITH MOTION TO STRIKE FIRST AMENDED COMPLAINT
 
Date of Hearing:        October
3, 2023                                Trial
Date:       N/A  
Department:              W                                                        Case
No:         23STCV05765 
 
Moving Party:            Defendants
Areg Sarkissian and Sarkissian Real Estate Inc. 
Responding Party:     Plaintiff
Law Offices of Adela Z. Ulloa, APC 

 
BACKGROUND
 
Plaintiff Law
Offices of Adela Z. Ulloa, APC had posted a job for a managing attorney for
their practice. Plaintiff alleges Defendant Sarkissian responded to the job
posting and during the initial interview, misrepresented himself to be an
expert attorney in the practice area of wrongful foreclosure. Plaintiff alleges
Defendant also breached the agreement by failing to meet basic deadlines and
failure to submit legible billing. 
 
On March 28, 2023, this action was
related to Defendant’s Labor Commission Appeal action against Law Offices of
Adela Z. Ulloa, APC (LASC Case No. 21VECP00029). 
 
On July 17, 2023, Plaintiff filed a
First Amended Complaint for 1. Breach of Contract; 2. Breach of Good Faith and
Fair Dealing; 3. Estoppel; 4. Fraudulent Misrepresentation; 5. Fraudulent Promise
without Intention to Perform; 6. Fraudulent Concealment; 7. Negligence; and, 8.
Breach of Fiduciary Duty.
 
[TENTATIVE]
RULING
 
Defendants Areg
Sarkissian and Sarkissian Real Estate Inc. Demurrer is SUSTAINED WITHOUT LEAVE
TO AMEND, in part. Defendants Areg
Sarkissian and Sarkissian Real Estate Inc.’s Motion to Strike is MOOT, in part.

 
REQUEST
FOR JUDICIAL NOTICE
 
Defendants Areg
Sarkissian and Sarkissian Real Estate Inc. request judicial notice of the
following documents including the agreement, correspondence including e-mail
and voicemail, termination letter, billing sheet, phone call log, and meet and
confer letter. (RJN, Exhs. A-O.) 
 
Plaintiff objects to the request for judicial notice on the
grounds  these documents are outside the
scope of judicial notice, since they are not indisputable. The court agrees.
The court denies Defendant’s request for judicial notice. 
 
DISCUSSION
 
Defendants Areg Sarkissian and Sarkissian Real Estate Inc. demur
to Plaintiff’s First Amended Complaint on the grounds all causes of actions
claimed by Plaintiff are outside their respective statutes of limitations and
thus, barred. Defendants also demur on the grounds the lawsuit is filed in
retaliation for the the appeal made by Defendant before the Labor Commission, Case
No. WC-CM-645854. Defendants request sanctions against Plaintiff in the amount
of $2,000.00. 
 
Statute of Limitations
 
Defendants demur to the breach of contract, and breach of good
faith and fair dealing causes of action on the grounds the claims are barred by
the statute of limitations. 
 
Under California Code of Civil Procedure section 337, an action
founded upon a written contract, such as breach of written contract and breach
of the covenant of good faith and fair dealing, must be brought within four
years of the alleged breach. The cause of action accrues when the breach
occurs. (See Spear v. California State Automobile Association (1992) 2
Cal.4th 1035, 1042.) Similarly, a cause of action for estoppel based on a
written promise, and breach of fiduciary duties is subject to a four year statute
of limitations.  (CCP §§ 343; 337.)   
 
Defendants argue Plaintiff alleges extensively in their First
Amended Complaint that Plaintiff and Defendant entered into a contract on or
around October 9, 2018 and that the contract was terminated on October 29,
2018. Accordingly, the statute of limitations ran October 29, 2022. Plaintiff
filed their complaint on March 15, 2023. Defendants further argue Emergency
Rule 9 does not apply because the specific dispute occurred before the
Emergency Rule went into effect. 
 
The court disagrees. Per Emergency Rule 9, statutes of limitations
that extend beyond 180 days are tolled (and thereby extended) for the period
April 6, 2020 to October 1, 2020, adding an additional 167 days.  Plaintiffs’ breach of contract claims accrued
on October 29, 2018.  With Emergency Rule
9, plaintiffs had to bring suit no later than April 12, 2023.  Having filed their complaint on March 15,
2023, the contract based claims are timely .  
 
As for Plaintiff’s fraud and negligence claims, the statute of
limitations for fraudulent misrepresentations, promise without intention to
perform, and concealment is 3 years. (CCP §338(d).) Code of Civil Procedure
section 335.1 provides that any action for negligence must be commenced within
two years.  Plaintiff’s contends the
filing of Defendant’s appeal of the Labor Board decision tolled Plaintiff’s
counter claims in this instant action. “It
has consistently been held that the commencement of an action tolls the statute
of limitations as to a defendant’s then unbarred cause of action against the
plaintiff, ‘relating to or depending upon the contract, transaction, matter,
happening or accident upon which the action is brought, . . .’” (Trindade
v. Superior Court (1973) 29 Cal. App. 3d 857, 860 (citation omitted).)
Other courts have also held that the tolling doctrine applies not only to
compulsory cross-complaints but permissive as well. (ZF Micro Devices, Inc.
v. TAT Capital Partners, Ltd. (2016) 5 Cal.App.5th 69, 89.) Because the
statute of limitations had not run at the time Defendant filed his appeal and
Plaintiff contends they could not file a cross-complaint in Defendant’s appeal,
plaintiffs’ contend they had  to initiate
their own civil action. However, the court finds this rule only applies to
pleadings within the same case. The “relation back” rule does not apply merely
because defendant's claim could have been asserted as a cross-complaint. Thus,
an independent action on the claim is subject to the statute of limitations. (Luna
Records Corp. v. Alvarado (1991) 232 Cal.App.3d 1023, 1029-1030.)
 
The court notes Defendant also argues Plaintiff maliciously filed
this claim after the Labor Board Commissioner granted Defendant’s appeal and
refers to “evidence” produced by Plaintiff as part of their complaint. Any such
argument is not appropriate for demurrer. ¿In a demurrer proceeding, the
defects must be apparent on the face of the pleading or via proper judicial
notice.¿(Donabedian v. Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968,
994.)¿“A demurrer tests the pleading alone, and not on the evidence or facts
alleged.” (E-Fab, Inc. v. Accountants, Inc. Servs. (2007) 153
Cal.App.4th 1308, 1315.)
 
Accordingly, Defendant’s demurrer to the third, fourth, fifth, and
sixth causes of action is SUSTAINED WITHOUT LEAVE TO AMEND. 
 
Sanctions
 
Defendant seeks 128.5 sanctions in their demurrer. Section 128.5
requires a request for sanctions to be brought in a separate motion.  (See
CCP § 128.5(f)(1)(A).)  As such, the court does not address
Defendant’s request at this time. 
 
Motion to Strike
 
Defendant seeks to strike Plaintiff’s allegations supporting a
claim for punitive damages as well as several paragraphs alleging Defendant’s
purported fraud. 
 
Because Plaintiff’s allegations for punitive damages are within
their fraud causes of action, the court finds Defendant’s motion to strike moot
as to the punitive allegations. Moreover, “when a substantive defect is clear
from the face of a complaint, such as a violation of the applicable statute of
limitations or a purported claim of right which is legally invalid, a defendant
may attack that portion of the cause of action by filing a motion to
strike.”  (PH II, Inc. v. Superior Court (1995) 33 Cal.App.4th
1680, 1682-1683.)  “[S]uch use of the motion to strike should be cautious
and sparing.  We have no intention of creating a procedural ‘line item
veto’ for the civil defendant.”  (Ibid.) Here, the court is
not convinced the allegations are improper or irrelevant. Accordingly, the
court denies Defendant’s motion to strike. 
 
 