  Case Number:  22VECV00728    Hearing Date:   October 3, 2023    Dept:  W ALBERT
BOYAJIAN V. SURGE GLOBAL BAKERIES PARTNERS GP, ET AL.
 
MOTION TO QUASH
SERVICE OF SUMMONS ON COMPLAINT AND COMPLAINT
 
Date
of Hearing:        October 3, 2023                                Trial Date:       None
set   
Department:
             W                                                        Case No.:        22VECV00728
 
Moving
Party:            Specially Appearing
Defendants Lewis Sharp, Thomas Beauchamp, and Surge Private Equity LLC 
Responding
Party:     Plaintiff Albert Boyajian  
 
BACKGROUND
 
On May 31, 2022, Plaintiff Albert Boyajian filed a
complaint against Defendants Surge Global Bakeries Holdings LLC, Surge Global
Bakeries Partners LP, Surge Global Bakeries Partners GP, LLC, Surge Private
Equity LLC, Surge Private Equity, McLarty Capital Partners SBIC II, LP, The
Firmament Group, Thomas Beauchamp, Lewis Sharp, Lauren Steel, Parris Boyd,
Tobias Keller, Andy Burchfield, and Ashur Aghasi for (1) Limited Partner
Derivative Suit; (2) Limited Partner Derivative Suit; (3) Fraudulent
Concealment; (4) Breach of Contract; and (5) Breach of Contract.
 
This action involves shareholder derivative and direct
claims by Plaintiff. Plaintiff alleges he sold his profitable bakery for an
equity position in a parent entity, a place on the board of directors of his
former bakery (now a wholly-owned subsidiary), and a Consulting Agreement. However,
Plaintiff alleges he did not know, when he sold his company, that the purchase
was merely the first step of a lender’s scheme to exploit the company for the
lender’s benefit, entirely contrary to the best interests of the equity
holders. Plaintiff contends after the purchase, the company unwarrantedly
acquired an additional two companies and took on additional dramatic debt,
during periods of mismanagement by inept managers and the lender who controlled
the board. Moreover, since the takeover, Plaintiff alleges the lender has not
given plaintiff any information on the companies; and has not called a meeting
of the board. 
 
[TENTATIVE]
RULING:
 
Specially
Appearing Defendants Surge Private Equity LLC, a Texas LLC, Lewis Sharp, and
Thomas Beauchamp’s Motions to Quash Service of Summons on Complaint and
Complaint are CONTINUED. 
 
DISCUSSION
 
I.                   
MOTION TO QUASH SERVICE BY SPECIALLY
APPEARING DEFENDANT SURGE PRIVATE EQUITY, LLC OF SUMMONS ON COMPLAINT AND
COMPLAINT
 
Specially
Appearing Defendant Surge Private Equity LLC, a Texas LLC (“Surge LLC”) moves
the court for an Order quashing service of the summons on the complaint by
Plaintiff Albert Boyajian on the grounds of lack of personal jurisdiction. 
 
Where
a nonresident defendant challenges jurisdiction by a motion to quash, the
plaintiff bears the burden of establishing by a preponderance of the evidence
the factual bases justifying the exercise of jurisdiction. (Viaview, Inc. v.
Retzlaff (2016) 1 Cal.App.5th 198, 216.) To satisfy this burden, a
plaintiff must present competent evidence showing that the defendant’s
conducted related to the pleaded causes of action is such as to constitute
minimum contacts with the forum to justify jurisdiction. (Id. at
217.) 
 
A
nonresident defendant is subject to the forum’s general jurisdiction where the
defendant’s contacts are substantial, continuous, and systematic. (DVI, Inc.
v. Superior Court (2002) 104 Cal.App.4th 1080, 1090.) A court has no
general jurisdiction when the company has no offices, employees, bank accounts,
or real property in California. (See Cassiar Mining Corp. v. Superior Court
(1998) 66 Cal.App.4th 550, 554.) If a nonresident’s contacts are not
substantial and systematic, a court may exercise specific jurisdiction over a
nonresident defendant only if (i) the defendant has purposefully availed itself
of forum benefits by purposefully and voluntarily directing its activities
toward the forum, (ii) the controversy is related to or arises out of the
defendant’s contacts with the forum, and (iii) the forum’s assertion of
personal jurisdiction over the defendant would comport with fair play and
substantial justice. (Jensen v. Jensen (2019) 31 Cal.App.5th 682,
686-87.) In determining whether a defendant has purposefully availed itself of
the benefits of the forum state, the relevant inquiry is “the degree to which a
foreign corporation interjects itself into the forum state” such that the
defendant can “reasonably expect to be haled into court there.” (Felix v.
Bomoro Kommanditgesellschaft (1987) 196 Cal.App.3d 106, 115-17.)  
 
Surge
LLC argues it has no offices or employees in California and does not have continuous
or systematic contacts in California. (Sharp Decl. ¶¶3-5.) Moreover, the
allegations of the complaint demonstrate there is no personal jurisdiction over
Surge LLC by actions or agreement. 
 
In
opposition, Plaintiff argues specific jurisdiction exists. Plaintiff contends when
Plaintiff decided to sell his business, Surge LLC was instrumental in
negotiating the acquisition price, obtaining investors, and then facilitating
and structuring the asset purchase transaction of Global Bakeries via the
entities it created. Moreover, Thomas Beauchamp and Lewis Sharp (Surge LLC’s
principals) met with Plaintiff in person in Los Angeles on multiple occasions,
both prior to and subsequent to the acquisition. Plaintiff further contends
Defendants Beauchamp and Sharp permanently granted their voting rights to Surge
LLC and as a result, support a finding of minimum contacts. Plaintiff also
states if the court concludes there is insufficient evidence of minimum contacts,
then Plaintiff requests that the court continue the hearing to permit Plaintiff
to conduct jurisdictional discovery. 
 
The
court notes that a parent company’s passive investment alone cannot create
purposeful availment. (HealthMarkets, Inc. v. Superior Court (2009) 171 Cal.
App. 4th 1160, 1169.) There is also case law that the relevant factors for
establishing purposeful availment of a contract with an out of state party
includes prior negotiations, contemplated future consequences, the parties’
course of dealings, and the contract’s choice-of-law provision. (Goehring v.
Superior Court (1998) 62 Cal.App.4th 894, 907.) In Goehring, the court held
that defendants’ execution of agreements alone were insufficient to establish
that defendants purposefully availed themselves of forum benefits. 
 
The
court finds Plaintiff has not shown purposeful direction or purposeful
availment and accordingly, has not met its initial burden of demonstrating
facts justifying the exercise of jurisdiction. The evidence before the court
indicates Surge LLC entered into negotiations of the underlying agreement. However,
the agreement was not entered into by Surge LLC or on the behalf of Surge LLC.
It is true Surge LLC is mentioned in the underly agreement; nevertheless, that
does not indicate Surge LLC purposefully availed themselves of the benefits of
conducting business within California. Moreover, Plaintiff does not provide any
authority for their contention that permanently assigning voting rights creates
minimum contacts. 
 
The
court finds Plaintiff has demonstrated further discovery will lead to the
production of evidence establishing jurisdiction against Surge LLC. A trial court has the discretion to continue the hearing on a motion
to quash service of summons for lack of personal jurisdiction to allow the
plaintiff to conduct discovery on jurisdictional issues. (HealthMarkets, Inc. v. Superior Court (2009) 171 Cal. App. 4th
1160, 1173.) To succeed on a motion for a continuance for jurisdictional
discovery, “the plaintiff should demonstrate that discovery is likely to lead
to the production of evidence of facts establishing jurisdiction.” (In re Auto. Antitrust Cases I & II
(2005) 135 Cal. App. 4th 100, 127.) Here, the discovery into Surge LLC’s
contractual relationships and identification of Surge LLC in the underlying
agreement may lead to relevant evidence. 
 
Accordingly, Defendant Surge LLC’s motion to quash is CONTINUED. 
 
II.                 
MOTION TO QUASH SERVICE OF SUMMONS ON
COMPLAINT AND COMPLAINT BY SPECIALLY APPEARING DEFENDANT LEWIS SHARP AND THOMAS
BEAUCHAMP 
 
Specially
Appearing Defendants Lewis Sharp and Thomas Beauchamp each bring a motion to
quash service of summons on complaint and complaint on grounds of lack of
personal jurisdiction. 
 
Plaintiff
did not file an opposition to either motion by Sharp or Beauchamp. Based on the
discussion above, the court continues Defendant Sharp and Beauchamp’s motion so
jurisdictional discovery may be conducted. 