 Case Number:  21STCV36131    Hearing Date:   February 21, 2024    Dept:  29 Motion to
Strike Service and Answer on Defendant Lovepreet Singh filed by Plaintiff Noheli
Jimenez. 
 
Tentative
 
The
motion is granted.
 
Background
 
On
October 1, 2021, Plaintiff Noheli Jimenez (“Plaintiff”) filed her complaint
against Lovepreet Singh for Motor Vehicle Negligence cause of action arising
out of an automobile accident occurring on October 16, 2019.
 
Lovepreet
Singh filed an answer on November 28, 2023.
 
On
January 18, 2024, Plaintiff filed this motion to strike proof of service on
Lovepreet Singh as well as his answer. No opposition has been filed.
 
Legal
Standard
 
“The
proper procedure for attacking the validity of a summons which has been served
upon a person who is not a party to an action is by a motion to quash the
service thereof.” (Kline v. Beauchamp (1938) 29 Cal.App.2d 340, 341.)
 
“A
defendant, on or before the last day of his or her time to plead or within any
further time that the court may for good cause allow, may serve and file a
notice of motion for one or more of the following purposes: (1) To quash
service of summons on the ground of lack of jurisdiction of the court over him
or her.” (CCP § 418.10(a)(1).)
 
Discussion
 
Plaintiff
contends that the Lovepreet Singh was served and answered her complaint is not
the same Lovepreet Singh as intended in her complaint. As such, Plaintiff
requests service on the answering Lovepreet Singh be quashed.
 
Plaintiff
believes Lovepreet Singh is a different Defendant in that the attached driver’s
license is different than the one in the CHP officer’s report. (Feldman Decl.,
¶ 5.) Plaintiff’s counsel reached out to the answer Lovepreet Singh’s counsel regarding
dismissing him, but has not received a response. (Id., ¶ 6.) Plaintiff
believes the correct Lovepreet Singh has now been correctly served. (Id.,
¶ 9; see also Exhibit B.) 
 
Here,
Plaintiff has shown through sufficient evidence that the person incorrectly
served is not a party to the action.  Thus,
the Court GRANTS Plaintiff’s motion, and quashes the service on Lovepreet Singh,
and strikes the answer filed on November 28, 2023.
 
Conclusion
 
The
Court GRANTS Plaintiff’s motion.
 
The
Court ORDERS service on Lovepreet Singh quashed.  The Court also STRIKES the answer filed by
Lovepreet Singh on November 28, 2023.
 
Moving
party is ordered to give notice.