 Case Number:  23STCV08018    Hearing Date:   February 21, 2024    Dept:  29 Motion to Compel Response to Request for Statement of Damages
(filed 11/8/23)
Motion to Compel Further Responses to Form Interrogatories (filed 11/8/23)
Motion to Compel Further Responses to Special Interrogatories (filed 11/8/23)
Motion to Compel Further Responses to Requests for Production (filed 11/8/23)
Tentative
The motion to compel a response to the request for statement
of damages is denied as moot.  The
request for sanctions is denied.
The three motions to compel further responses are continued
for approximately 30 days.
Background
This case arises out of an alleged motor vehicle accident
on April 11, 2021, near the intersection of Washington Boulevard and Greenwood
Avenue in Montebello.  On April 11, 2023,
Plaintiff Cindy Garofalo (“Plaintiff”) filed her complaint against Defendants
Circle K Stores, Inc., Wayne Sheppard, and Does 1 through 50, asserting causes
of action for motor vehicle negligence and general negligence.  On August 2, 2023, Defendants Circle K
Stores, Inc. and Wayne Edward Sheppard (collectively “Defendants”) filed their
answer to the complaint.
On the
same day that they answered, August 2, 2023, Defendants served Plaintiff with a
Request for Statement of Damages. (Gonzalez Decl., ¶ 4 & Exh. A.)  Defendants followed up on August 29, October
9, October 26, October 30, October 31, November 6, and November 7, and although
Plaintiff did respond to some of those communications with promises of future
compliance, Plaintiff never served a statement of damages.  (Id., ¶¶ 6-18 & Exhs. B-E.)
On November 8, 2023, Defendants filed this motion to
compel Plaintiff’s responses to the Request for Statement of Damages.
Plaintiff did not file any opposition, but Plaintiff did serve a
statement of damages on or about November 15, 2023.  (Gonzalez IDC Decl., ¶ 22 & Exh. 8.)  
Also
on August 2, 2023, Defendants served Plaintiff with discovery, including Form
Interrogatories (Set One), Special Interrogatories (Set One), and Requests for Production
(Set One).  (Gonzalez Decls., ¶ 4 &
Exhs. A.)  Plaintiff served responses on
September 20.  (Id., ¶ 6 &
Exhs. B.)  The parties met and conferred
and although Plaintiff agreed to provide amended responses, no such amended
responses were served.  (Id., ¶¶ 7-17.)
On
November 8, Defendants filed these three motions to compel further
responses.  Defendants also seek
sanctions.
Plaintiff
has not filed any opposition.
On January 19, 2024, Defendants filed a declaration of
counsel in connection with an Informal Discovery Conference (“IDC”) scheduled
for February 9.  In that declaration,
Defendants stated that they received further responses to the discovery
requests on December 19, 2023.  (Gonzalez
IDC Decl., ¶ 24 & Exhs. 9-12.) 
Defendants contend that the further responses are still not code
compliant.  (Id., ¶ 25.)
The disputes were not resolved at the IDC.
Legal Standard
Statement of Damages
Code of Civil Procedure section 425.11,
subdivision (b), requires that when a defendant in a personal injury case requests
a statement of damages, the plaintiff must “serve a responsive statement as to
the damages within 15 days.”  (Code Civ.
Proc., § 425.11, subd. (b).)  If a timely
response is not served, “the defendant, on notice to the plaintiff, may
petition the court in which the action is pending to order the plaintiff to
serve a responsive statement.”  (Ibid.)
 
Further Responses to Interrogatories and Document
Requests
“On receipt of a response to interrogatories, the propounding
party may move for an order compelling a further response if the propounding
party deems that any of the following apply: (1) An answer to a particular
interrogatory is evasive or incomplete. (2) An exercise of the option to
produce documents under Section 2030.230 is unwarranted or the required
specification of those documents is inadequate. (3) An objection to an
interrogatory is without merit or too general.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.300, subd. (a).)
Notice of a motion to compel further responses must be given
“within 45 days of the service of the verified response, or any supplemental
verified response, or on or before any specific later date to which the
propounding party and the responding party have agreed in writing.” (Id.,
subd. (c).)
A motion to compel further responses must be accompanied by a meet-and-confer
declaration and a separate statement or, in the discretion of the Court, a
“concise outline of the discovery request and each response in dispute.” (Id.,
subd. (b)(1) & (b)(2); Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1345.)
“The court shall
impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010)
against any party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a
motion to compel a further response to interrogatories, unless it finds that
the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that
other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.300, subd. (d).)
“On receipt of a response to a demand for inspection, copying,
testing, or sampling, the demanding party may move for an order compelling
further response to the demand if the demanding party deems that any of the
following apply: (1) A statement of compliance with the demand is incomplete.  (2) A representation of inability to comply
is inadequate, incomplete, or evasive. 
(3) An objection in the response is without merit or too general.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.310, subd. (a).)
Notice of a motion to compel further responses must be given
“within 45 days of the service of the verified response, or any supplemental
verified response, or on or before any specific later date to which the
propounding party and the responding party have agreed in writing.” (Id.,
subd. (c).)
A motion to compel further responses must set forth specific
facts showing good cause for the discovery and must be accompanied by a meet-and-confer
declaration and a separate statement or, in the discretion of the Court, a
“concise outline of the discovery request and each response in dispute.” (Id.,
subd. (b)(1)-(3); Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1345.)
“[T]he court shall
impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010)
against any party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a
motion to compel further response to a demand, unless it finds that the one
subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other
circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.310, subd. (h).)
In Chapter 7 of the
Civil Discovery Act, Code of Civil Procedure section 2023.030, subdivision (a)
provides, in pertinent part, that the court may impose a monetary sanction ordering
that any person “engaging in the misuse of the discovery process, or any
attorney advising that conduct, or both pay the reasonable expenses, including
attorney’s fees, incurred by anyone as a result of that conduct.” A “misuse of
the discovery process” includes (among other things) failing to respond or to
submit to an authorized method of discovery; making, without substantial
justification, an unmeritorious objection to discovery; making an evasive
response to a discovery request; disobeying a court order to provide discovery;
and making or opposing, unsuccessfully, a motion to compel without substantial
justification. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2023.010, subds. (d)-(h).)
Discussion
Statement of Damages
Shortly after this motion was filed, Plaintiff served a
statement of damages.  (Gonzalez IDC
Decl., ¶ 22 & Exh. 8.)  Accordingly,
the request for an order compelling the service of a statement of damages is
DENIED as moot.
Defendants also seek monetary sanctions.  Although there is no direct statutory
authority for an award of sanctions in this context, Defendants correctly note
that one Court of Appeal decision from the Fourth District mentions in dicta in
a footnote that such sanctions might be available in certain circumstances.  (Argame v. Werasophon (1997) 57
Cal.App.4th 616, 618 fn. 3.)
The Court exercises its discretion to decline to award
sanctions here, where, shortly before the motion was filed, Plaintiff asked for
a brief extension of time to complete the statement of damages and where,
shortly after the motion was filed, the statement of damages was in fact
served.  Moreover, the Court notes that a
Second District Court of Appeal decision has taken a more narrow view on the
power of a court to award sanctions in the absence of express legislative
authority.  (City of Los Angeles v. PricewaterhouseCoopers,
LLC (2022) 84 Cal.App.5th 466, 504, 510-511.)  The Court is aware that the California Supreme
Court has granted review of the City of Los Angeles case.  The order granting review, filed on January
25, 2023, states that pending review, the appellate opinion “may be cited,”
including “for its persuasive value.” 
The Court finds the reasoning of Justice Moor in City of Los Angeles to
be persuasive.
Further Response to Interrogatories and Document
Requests
In their moving papers, filed on November 8, Defendants seek
further responses to Form Interrogatories 7.1, 10.1, and 14.1; Special
Interrogatories Nos. 4, 5, 8-15, 17, 18, 21, 25, 26, 37, 38, 40, 41, 48, 58,
59, 61, 62, 77, and 80; and Requests for Production Nos. 1-13 and 16.
On December 19, 2023, Plaintiff served further responses to
the form interrogatories, special interrogatories, and requests for production.  (Gonzalez IDC Decl., ¶ 24 & Exhs. 10-13.)  Defendants contend that the “vast majority”
of these further responses are still “evasive and inadequate.”  (Id., ¶ 25.)
Defendants initial moving papers were complete and included a
Separate Statement. In light of Plaintiff’s subsequent service of amended
responses, however, it is unclear to the Court what discovery responses remain
in dispute; Defendants’ statement that some or most responses remain “evasive”
and/or “inadequate” is not sufficient.
Accordingly, the Court will continue the hearing on the three
motions to compel for approximately 30 days and order Defendants to file, for
each motion, an updated Separate Statement that complies with California Rules
of Court, rule 3.1345. 
Conclusion
The Court DENIES as moot Defendants’ motion to compel a
response to the request for a statement of damages.  The Court DENIES the request for sanctions in
that motion.
The Count CONTINUES the hearing on Defendants’ motions to
compel further responses to form interrogatories, special interrogatories, and
requests for production for approximately 30 days, to a date convenient for the
Court and counsel.
The Court ORDERS Defendants to file an updated Separate
Statement under California Rules of Court, rule 3.1345, for each motion, at
least ten court days in advance of the new hearing date.
Moving parties to give notice.