 Case Number:  23STCV10717    Hearing Date:   February 21, 2024    Dept:  29 Motion for Leave to Amend Complaint filed by Plaintiffs
Ernesto Flores and Nayeli Quiroz .
 
Tentative
The motion
is granted.
Background
This case arises out of an incident on
May 14, 2021, in which Plaintiff Ernesto Flores allegedly suffered injuries
from an electrocution.  On May 12, 2023,
Plaintiffs Ernesto Flores and Nayeli Quiroz (collectively “Plaintiffs”) filed
their complaint against Brian R. Stalker, Elizabeth H. Stalker, Johnson
Electric, Kenneth Johnson, TGNPM, and Does 1 to 100, asserting causes of action
or premises liability and general negligence. 

Defendants Brian R. Stalker and
Elizabeth H. Stalker (collectively, the “Stalkers”) filed their answer on
September 15, 2023.
On October 6, 2023, Defendant Johnson
Electric and Kenneth Johnson (collectively, the “Johnson Defendants”) filed a
motion to strike certain allegations in the complaint.  On November 6, 2023, the Johnson Defendants filed
a notice taking their motion off calendar. 
The Johnson Defendants have not filed an answer.
On January 19, 2024, Plaintiffs filed
a motion for leave to file a First Amended Complaint (“FAC”).  The proposed FAC adds 19 causes of action
arising out of the same incident but does not add any new parties.  (Jacobs Decl., Exh. 1.) 
The Johnson Defendants filed an
opposition to the motion on February 6, 2024. 
Plaintiffs filed their reply on February 13.
Legal Standard
CCP §
473(a)(1) provides, in relevant part: 
“The court may, in furtherance of justice, and on any terms as may be
proper, allow a party to amend any pleading or proceeding by adding or striking
out the name of any party, or by correcting a mistake in the name of a party,
or a mistake in any other respect; and may, upon like terms, enlarge the time
for answer or demurrer.  The court may
likewise, in its discretion, after notice to the adverse party, allow, upon any
terms as may be just, an amendment to any pleading or proceeding in other
particulars; and may upon like terms allow an answer to be made after the time
limited by this code.”  
“This
discretion should be exercised liberally in favor of amendments, for judicial
policy favors resolution of all disputed matters in the same lawsuit.”  (Kittredge Sports Co. v. Superior Court
(1989) 213 Cal.App.3d 1045, 1047.) 
Ordinarily, the court will not consider the validity of the proposed
amended pleading in ruling on a motion for leave since grounds for a demurrer
or motion to strike are premature.  The
court, however, does have discretion to deny leave to amend where a proposed
amendment fails to state a valid cause of action as a matter of law and the
defect cannot be cured by further amendment. 
(See California Casualty General Ins. Co. v. Superior Court (1985)
173 Cal.App.3d 274, 281, overruled on other grounds by Kransco v. American
Empire Surplus Lines Ins. Co. (2000) 23 Cal.4th 390.) 
California
Rule of Court, rule 3.1324, subdivision (a) provides that a motion to amend a
pleading must (1) include a copy of the proposed amendment or amended pleading,
which must be serially numbered to differentiate it from previous pleadings or
amendments; (2) state what allegations in the previous pleading are
proposed to be deleted, if any, and where, by page, paragraph and line number,
the deleted allegations are located; and (3) state what allegations are
proposed to be added to the previous pleading, if any, and where, by page,
paragraph, and line number, the additional allegations are located.  Subdivision (b) requires a declaration that
specifies (1) the effect of the amendment; (2) why the amendment is
necessary and proper; (3) when the facts giving rise to the amended allegations
were discovered; and (4) the reasons why the request for amendment was not made
earlier.  
Even if
a good amendment is proposed in proper form, a long, unwarranted and unexcused
delay in presenting it may be a good reason for denial.  In most cases, the factors for timeliness
are: (1) lack of diligence in discovering the facts or in offering the
amendment after knowledge of them; and (2) the effect of the delay on the
adverse party.  If the party seeking the
amendment has been dilatory, and the delay has prejudiced the opposing party,
the judge has discretion to deny leave to amend.  (Hirsa v. Superior Court (1981) 118
Cal.App.3d 486, 490.)  Prejudice exists
where the amendment would require delaying the trial, resulting in loss of
critical evidence, or added costs of preparation such as an increased burden of
discovery.  (Magpali v. Farmers Group,
Inc. (1996) 48 Cal.App.4th 471, 486-488.) 
Discussion
Plaintiffs
seek leave to amend their complaint to add 19 new causes of action, numbered
3-21 as follows: (3) IIED, (4) NIED, (5) Fraud - Intentional Misrepresentation,
(6) Fraud - Concealment, (7) Fraud - False Promise, (8) Constructive Fraud, (9)
Negligent Misrepresentation, (10) Breach of Written Contract, (11) Breach of
Oral Contract, (12) Breach of Implied Contract, (13) Breach of the Implied
Covenant of Good Faith and Fair Dealing, (14) Promissory Estoppel, (15) Breach
of Warranty of Habitability, (16) Breach of Duty to Maintain Habitable
Conditions, (17) Breach of the Implied Covenant of Quiet Enjoyment, (18) Public
Nuisance, (19) Private Nuisance, (20) Unfair Business Practices, and (21) Loss
of Consortium. Plaintiffs contend that this amendment will them to pursue all
their theories of liability in a single action, as all the additional claims
are based on the same incident as alleged in the original complaint.
Plaintiffs’ counsel states in her declaration
that the facts giving rise to the new allegations and causes of action were
discovered as a result of site inspections in October and December 2023 and
subsequent research and investigation.  (Jacobs
Decl., ¶ 9.)
The case
is not yet at issue.  The Johnson
Defendants have appeared but have not filed an answer.  Named Defendant TGNPM has not appeared.
The
Court has carefully considered the arguments from both sides and finds that
there is good cause to grant the motion for leave to amend.  The proposed FAC adds a substantial number of
additional legal theories of recovery, but all of the new causes of action
arise out of the same incident and involve the same parties.  The case is at a preliminary stage, and there
has been no showing of any undue or unfair prejudice to the Johnson Defendants
if leave to amend is granted.  Any
arguments regarding the sufficiency of the new allegations may be raised
through a demurrer or motion to strike.
Conclusion
The Court GRANTS Plaintiffs’
motion for leave to amend.
The
Court GRANTS Plaintiffs leave to file the First Amended Complaint attached to
their moving papers within 10 days. 
Moving
Party is to give notice.