 Case Number:  23STCV13699    Hearing Date:   February 21, 2024    Dept:  29 
Motion to Compel Arbitration filed by Defendant Lyft, Inc.
 
Tentative
The motion is
granted.
Background
This matter
arises out of an automobile accident that allegedly occurred on June 30, 2021,
on the southbound I-110 freeway on-ramp near Manchester Avenue in Los Angeles. On
June 14, 2023, Plaintiff Shanai Denera Beime (“Plaintiff”) filed her complaint
against Lyft, Inc., Gustavo Adolfo Aldana, Eleather Fay Rhinehart, Dwayne
Porter, and Does 1 through 50, asserting a cause of action for
negligence/negligence per se.
On September
15, Defendant Gustavo Aldana Lopez (erroneously sued as Gustavo Adolfo Aldana) (“Aldana”)
filed an answer to the complaint.
On October 2,
Defendants Dwayne Porter (“Porter”) and Eleather Fay Rhinehart (“Rhinehart”)
filed an answer to the complaint and a cross-complaint for indemnity against
Lyft, Inc., Aldana, and Roes 1 through 20. 
On October 6,
2023, Defendant Lyft, Inc. (“Lyft”) filed its answer to the complaint.
On November 9,
2023, Lyft and Aldana each filed an answer to the cross-complaint.
On January
24, 2024, Lyft filed this motion to compel arbitration of Plaintiff’s claims
against Lyft and to stay the litigation of the claims in the complaint against Lyft
pending the outcome of the arbitration.
No party has
filed an opposition.
Legal Standard 
California
law incorporates many of the basic policy objectives contained in the Federal
Arbitration Act, including a presumption in favor of arbitrability. (See Engalla
v. Permanente Medical Group, Inc. (1997) 15 Cal.4th 951, 971-72.) Under the
FAA, “A written provision in … a contract evidencing a transaction involving
commerce to settle by arbitration a controversy thereafter arising out of such
contract or transaction, or the refusal to perform the whole or any part
thereof, or an agreement in writing to submit to arbitration an existing
controversy arising out of such a contract, transaction, or refusal, shall be
valid, irrevocable, and enforceable, save upon such grounds as exist at law or
in equty for the revocation of any contract ….” (9 U.S.C., § 2.) Under Code of
Civil Procedure section 1281, a “written agreement to submit to arbitration an
existing controversy or a controversy thereafter arising is valid, enforceable
and irrevocable, save upon such grounds as exist for the revocation of any
contract.”  
Code of
Civil Procedure section 1281.2 provides, in pertinent part, the following:
“On petition of a party to an
arbitration agreement alleging the existence of a written agreement to
arbitrate a controversy and that a party thereto refuses to arbitrate such
controversy, the court shall order the petitioner and the respondent to arbitrate
the controversy if it determines that an agreement to arbitrate the controversy
exists, unless it determines that: 
(a) The right to compel
arbitration has been waived by the petitioner; or 
(b) Grounds exist for the
revocation of the agreement. 
(c) A party to the arbitration
agreement is also a party to a pending court action or special proceeding with
a third party, arising out of the same transaction or series of related
transactions and there is a possibility of conflicting rulings on a common
issue of law or fact ....”  
(d) … If the court determines that a party to
the arbitration is also a party to litigation in a pending court action or
special proceeding with a third party as set forth under subdivision (c), the
court (1) may refuse to enforce the arbitration agreement and may order
intervention or joinder of all parties in a single action or special
proceeding; (2) may order intervention or joinder as to all or only
certain issues; (3) may order arbitration among the parties who have
agreed to arbitration and stay the pending court action or special proceeding
pending the outcome of the arbitration proceeding; or (4) may stay
arbitration pending the outcome of the court action or special proceeding.
(Code Civ.
Proc., § 1281.2.) 
“[W]hen a
petition to compel arbitration is filed and accompanied by prima facie evidence
of a written agreement to arbitrate the controversy, the court itself must
determine whether the agreement exists and, if any defense to its enforcement
is raised, whether it is enforceable. Because the existence of the
agreement is a statutory prerequisite to granting the petition, the petitioner
bears the burden of proving its existence by a preponderance of the
evidence. If the party opposing the petition raises a defense to
enforcement—either fraud in the execution voiding the agreement, or a statutory
defense of waiver or revocation (see §1281.2(a), (b))—that party bears the
burden of producing evidence of, and proving by a preponderance of the
evidence, any fact necessary to the defense.” (Rosenthal v. Great Western
Fin. Securities Corp. (1996) 14 Cal.4th 394, 413.)
Preliminary Matters
Before addressing the merits, the
Court begins with two preliminary matters.
First, the Court disregards entirely Lyft’s citations to the ruling
of other California Superior Courts, and Lyft’s argument based on these
rulings. In California state court, the only state court decisions that can be
cited, and the only decisions that have any weight, are published decisions by
appellate courts. Rulings by California state trial courts, no matter how
inspired and thoughtful, are not published, are not citable, and have no
precedential authority.   
Second, the Court disregards entirely
Lyft’s unhelpful suggestion that the risk of inconsistent rulings – which is the
necessary and the inevitable result of Lyft’s motion – could be avoided if
Plaintiffs simply dismissed all of their claims against Lyft. Arbitration
clauses are designed to provide an alternate forum for the prompt and efficient
resolution of disputed claims. Contrary to Lyft’s argument, arbitration clauses
are not designed to provide blanket immunity from liability for the party with
greater bargaining power.  Lyft’s
apparent suggestion to the contrary is meritless and lacks any support in the
law.
Discussion
Lyft moves
for an order compelling arbitration of Plaintiff’s claim against Lyft in
accordance with the terms of an agreement between the parties to
arbitrate.  Lyft also seeks to stay
litigation of Plaintiff’s claims against Lyft pending completion of the
arbitration.
As a threshold matter, Lyft has met its initial
burden of showing that there is an agreement to arbitrate between the parties
that covers the matters in dispute here. 

Paul McCachern, Safety Program Lead for Lyft, has
submitted a written declaration explaining (among other things): (1) that
Plaintiff accepted Lyft’s Terms of Service when she created her user account on
February 25, 2017, and subsequently accepted a series of Lyft’s updated Terms
of Service on October 29, 2019; on January 11, 2021; and January 9, 2023. (McCachern
Decl., ¶¶ 11-12.)  
The documents attached to Mr. McCachern’s
declaration, and authenticated by him, demonstrate (among other things): (1)
that paragraph 17 of the Terms of Service dated September 30, 2016, which
Plaintiff accepted for the first time on February 25, 2017, prior to the
accident, includes an agreement to arbitrate “all disputes and claims between
us,” subject to some exclusions that do not apply here (Exh. 2, at p. 18.); (2)
that paragraph 17 of the Terms of Service that Plaintiff accepted in 2019, as
well as paragraph 17 of the Terms of Service that Plaintiff accepted in 2020,
also contain similar provisions (Exhs. 4, 5.); (3) that paragraph 17 of
the Terms of Service dated December 12, 2022, which Plaintiff accepted on January
9, 2023, after the accident, also contains similar provisions. (Exh. 6.); and (4)
that all of the Terms of Service accepted by Plaintiffs state that the parties’
agreement to arbitrate “is governed by the Federal Arbitration Act.” (Exhs. 2, 4,
5, 6.) 
Plaintiff has not filed an opposition.
Where, as here, the parties have agreed
that their agreement to arbitrate is “governed by” the Federal Arbitration Act,
and there is no reference to California law or procedure governing the
arbitration, the procedural rules of the FAA apply (because that
is what the parties agreed to), and the procedural
provisions of the California Arbitration Act, including Code of Civil Procedure
section 1281.2, are displaced. (Victrola 89 v. Jaman Properties
(2020) 46 Cal.App.5th 337, 346-48; Rodriguez v. American Technologies
(2006) 136 Cal.App.4th 1110, 1121-22.) Under the FAA’s procedural rules, the
motion to compel the arbitration must be granted, and the litigation between
the parties who agreed to arbitrate must be stayed, even if there are other
pending claims not subject to arbitration that arise from the same transaction
or occurrence, and even if there is a risk of inconsistent or conflicting
rulings. (See 9 U.S.C. § 3; Moses H. Cone Memorial Hosp. v. Mercury
Construction (1983) 460 U.S. 1.) The FAA “leaves no place for the exercise
of discretion by a district court, but instead mandates that district courts
shall direct the parties to proceed to arbitration on issues as to which an
arbitration agreement has been signed,” even when “the result would be the
possibility inefficient maintenance of separate proceedings in different
forums.” (Dean Witter Reynolds v. Byrd (1985) 470 U.S. 213, 218.)
Accordingly, the motion is granted.
Conclusion
The Court GRANTS Lyft’s motion to
compel arbitration. 
 
The Court ORDERS Plaintiff and Lyft to
arbitrate the claims in the Complaint pursuant to the terms of the agreements
between Plaintiff and Lyft.
 
The Court STAYS litigation of
Plaintiff’s claim against Lyft.
 
No other part of this litigation is
stayed or affected by this ruling. Litigation of Plaintiff’s claims against the
other defendants, and of all claims in the cross-complaint, may proceed.
 
The Court sets an OSC re dismissal
(completion of arbitration) for ______________, 2024, at 8:30 a.m., in
Department 29 of the Spring Street Courthouse.
 
Moving Party is ORDERED to give
notice.
 