 Case Number:  22STCV20297    Hearing Date:   February 21, 2024    Dept:  29 Plaintiff’s Motion to Compel Further Responses to Form Interrogatories (filed 12/8/23)TentativeThe Court will hear from counsel.BackgroundThis case arises out of a motor vehicle accident on January 16, 2021, near the intersection of South Western Avenue and West 89th Street in Los Angeles.  On June 21, 2022, Plaintiffs Uriel Calzada Martinez and Aracely De Los Santos filed the Complaint in this action, asserting causes of action for motor vehicle negligence and general negligence against Defendants Jerome Winfield (“Defendant”) and Does 1 through 50.  On April 13, 2023, Defendant filed his Answer to the Complaint.On August 22, 2023, Plaintiff Uriel Martinez (“Plaintiff”) served Defendant with discovery, including Form Interrogatories (Set One).  (Weinberg Decl., ¶ 3 & Exh. B.)On October 25, 2023, Defendant provided untimely responses.  (Id., ¶ 4 & Exh. E.)  The responses include both objections and substantive responses.  (Id., Exh. E.)  The responses are not verified, however.  (Id., ¶ 4.)Plaintiff attempted to meet and confer with Defendant to obtain the verifications and substantive responses.  Defendant did not provide the verifications and suggested instead an exchange in which Defendant would provide the verifications if Plaintiff would agree that Defendant had not waived his objections by failing to provide a timely response.  (Id., ¶¶ 5-7 & Exh. F.)On December 8, 2023, Plaintiff this motion to compel further responses.  Plaintiff also seeks sanctions.Defendant has not filed any opposition.The Court is aware that a motion to compel further responses to a request for production of documents is on calendar for February 22, 2024.Legal Standard“On receipt of a response to interrogatories, the propounding party may move for an order compelling a further response if the propounding party deems that any of the following apply: (1) An answer to a particular interrogatory is evasive or incomplete. (2) An exercise of the option to produce documents under Section 2030.230 is unwarranted or the required specification of those documents is inadequate. (3) An objection to an interrogatory is without merit or too general.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.300, subd. (a).)Notice of a motion to compel further responses must be given “within 45 days of the service of the verified response, or any supplemental verified response, or on or before any specific later date to which the propounding party and the responding party have agreed in writing.” (Id., subd. (c).)A motion to compel further responses must be accompanied by a meet-and-confer declaration and a separate statement or, in the discretion of the Court, a “concise outline of the discovery request and each response in dispute.” (Id., subd. (b)(1) & (b)(2); Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1345.)“The court shall impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010) against any party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel a further response to interrogatories, unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.300, subd. (d).)In Chapter 7 of the Civil Discovery Act, Code of Civil Procedure section 2023.030, subdivision (a) provides, in pertinent part, that the court may impose a monetary sanction ordering that any person “engaging in the misuse of the discovery process, or any attorney advising that conduct, or both pay the reasonable expenses, including attorney’s fees, incurred by anyone as a result of that conduct.” A “misuse of the discovery process” includes (among other things) failing to respond or to submit to an authorized method of discovery; making, without substantial justification, an unmeritorious objection to discovery; making an evasive response to a discovery request; disobeying a court order to provide discovery; and making or opposing, unsuccessfully, a motion to compel without substantial justification. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2023.010, subds. (d)-(h).)DiscussionAt the informal discovery conference on January 23, the issues were not resolved, but the Court and counsel did discuss that Defendant would provide further responses to the discovery requests by February 13.The Court will hear from counsel regarding the current status of the discovery issues.ConclusionThe Court will hear from counsel.