


[1]
Medalist, Fairview, and PPRF represent that this case was dismissed without
prejudice on April 26, 2024.  (See
Medalist, Fairview, and PPRF’s Opposition, p. 3.)


[2]
Petitioners state that they prepared a supplemental version of this chart to
“illustrate that there are anywhere from one to five common legal issues in
each of the actions at issue[.]” 
(Petitioners’ Sur-Reply, p. 1.) 
The supplemental chart is purported attached to the sur-reply at exhibit
A (see ibid.); however, the exhibit A in the binder submitted to the Court is
blank.
 


[3]
Petitioners claim Holmes, a former executive, misappropriated “public and
private funds from Shangri-La that were earmarked for the construction and
operation of the Homekey Properties.” 
(Petitioners’ MP&A, p. 7.) 
This case seeks to hold Holmes liable for the purported
misappropriations.  


[4]
BMO states that it initially sought judicial foreclosure on three properties
but that those claims are now moot and that the case no longer implicates
Homekey properties.  (See BMO’s
Opposition, pp. 1, 3 n.4.)


 
[5]
Again, BMO Bank N.A. says the judicial foreclosure claims are now moot.  (See ibid.)


[6] Northstar states that the lenders have agreed to the
AG’s proposed use restrictions on the Homekey properties.  (See Northstar Opposition, p. 3.)  The Court will seek confirmation of this
representation at the hearing.  If true, it
will be another factor against coordination.
 


[7]
Petitioners’ bankruptcy argument is speculative and fails to change the
outcome.  Whether bankruptcy stays will
be ordered and impact one or more of the cases is unclear on the current record,
but, if it does happen, it will not be an uncommon act.  Bankruptcy stays occur on a regular basis in
complex and noncomplex cases.  They are
standard.  Their effect is to pause
litigation as to particular parties, not to create common issues as to all
parties.  The presence of unique
properties, unique loans and contracts, unique property interests, etc. renders
the factual and legal issues more individualized than common.      


 
[8]
Shangri-La remains free to try to relate or consolidate the cases so that the
Monterey cases are in one courtroom in Monterey and the San Bernardino cases
are in one courtroom in San Bernardino. 
(See, e.g., PDG’s Opposition, p. 4 [discussing the San Bernardino
cases].) 

