

 
            This is a habitability case brought
by thirty-eight residential tenants who rent, or have rented, units in a
building located at 215 West Sixth Street in downtown Los Angeles (Property).
 
            Plaintiffs
Michael Laguerre, Robert Alvin Johnson, Kerry-Ann Morrison, Joselyn Garcia,
Alexander Mattera, Whitney Coss, Eric Bradley, Arman Musakhanyan, Damaris
Cervantes, John Michael Triana, Jamar Hart, Natali Babiyans, Jamal Shakir,
Alisa Garrett, Keith Thomas, Thomas Syrowski, Justin Goslee, Jasmyme Cannick,;
Giovanna Dagostino, Alex Onofre, Jennifer Bailey, Matthew Dutcher, Kevin
Reeves, Jacqwel Brown, Jaida Kyi, Daniel Kirkland, Nathaniel Salgo, Devante
Roper, D’marques Riley, Mario Foster, Brandie Rossi, Boston Osborne, Samantha
Bran, Paul Martignetti, Sherrtl Grant, Lam Vu, Jas Jeffress, Jean Juste
(collectively, Plaintiffs) sued their landlord, Manhattan Loft, LLC (Manhattan
Loft) and its alleged agents, Erica Rivera and Pam Pham-Le.
 
            The
operative Second Amended Complaint (SAC) alleges numerous causes of action,
including breach of contract, breach of implied warranty of habitability,
breach of quiet enjoyment, and violations of state and local tenant
protections. 
 
            Plaintiffs
allege that during their tenancies, Defendants knowingly permitted Property to subsist
in an untenable condition. Specifically, Plaintiffs allege the Property
suffered from numerous health and safety code violations, including vermin infestation,
dangerous elevators, mold growth, offensive odor, and overall dilapidation.
They also allege Defendants abused and harassed them when they tried to assert
their rights, including through physical threats and attempts to illegally
evict them.
 
            On
January 11, 2023, the Court heard Defendant Manhattan Loft’s demurrer to Plaintiffs’
Complaint; Defendant Manhattan Loft demurred to eighteen of Plaintiffs’
twenty-eight cause of action. The Court overruled the demurrer as to nine causes
of action, sustained with leave as to eight causes of action, sustained without
leave as to one cause of action. 
 
            Manhattan
Loft demurred again to the First Amended Complaint. On May 15, 2023, the Court
overruled the demurrer to three causes of action, sustained without leave to amend
three causes of action, and sustained with leave to amend as to sixteenth and
twenty-first causes of action.
 
            On
July 5, 2023, Defendant Manhattan Lofts demurred to the sixteenth
and twenty-first causes of action. Plaintiffs opposed the demurrer. The Court
sustained the demurrer without leave to amend. 
 
            Now,
Defendant
SBDTLA 1, LLC, SBDTLA 2, LLC, SBDTLA 3, LLC, SBDTLA 4, LLC (collectively,
SBDTLA) and Greystar California, Inc. (Greystar) (collectively, Defendants) move
for judgment on the pleadings on the grounds that Plaintiff omitted Defendants as
parties from the First
Amended Complaint (FAC) and Second Amended Complaint (SAC). Plaintiffs oppose
the motion on the grounds that the omission was based on attorney mistake and
seeks relief pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 473, subdivision (b).
 
            The
motion for judgment on the pleadings is moot. The SBDTLA defendants and
Greystar have been dismissed from the case.
 
LEGAL STANDARD
“[A] motion for judgment on
the pleadings is the functional equivalent of a general demurrer.... Indeed,
the only significant difference between the two motions is
in their timing.” (People v. $20,000 U.S. Currency (1991) 235
Cal.App.3d 682, 691.)
 
A
demurrer for sufficiency tests whether the complaint states a cause of action.
(Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747.) When considering
demurrers, courts read the allegations liberally and in context. The defects
must be apparent on the face of the pleading or via proper judicial notice. (Donabedian
v. Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994.) A demurrer tests the
pleadings alone and not the evidence or other extrinsic matters. Therefore, it
lies only where the defects appear on the face of the pleading or are
judicially noticed. (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 430.30, 430.70.) At the pleading
stage, a plaintiff need only allege ultimate facts sufficient to apprise the
defendant of the factual basis for the claim against him. (Semole v.
Sansoucie (1972) 28 Cal. App. 3d 714, 721.) A “demurrer does not, however,
admit contentions, deductions or conclusions of fact or law alleged in the
pleading, or the construction of instruments pleaded, or facts impossible in
law.” (S. Shore Land Co. v. Petersen (1964) 226 Cal.App.2d 725, 732
[internal citations omitted].)
 
DISCUSSION
 
            Defendants
move for a judgment on the pleading as to the entire Second Amended Complaint
on the grounds that they have been dismissed as parties from the FAC and SAC.
 
            On May 4, 2022 and June 21, 2022,
Plaintiffs amended their Complaint to name SBDTLA and Greystar, respectively,
previously named as Does. (See 5/4/22 Amendment to the Complaint; 6/21/2022
Amendment to the Complaint.)[1] Then, Plaintiffs
filed a First Amended Complaint (FAC) on February 6, 2023 and a Second Amended
Complaint (SAC) on June 5, 2023. However, neither of these pleadings name
Defendants in the caption or the body of the complaint, despite the prior Doe amendments.
(See generally FAC, SAC.) 
 
“It has long been the rule that an
amended complaint that omits defendants named in the original complaint
operates as a dismissal as to them.” (Fireman's Fund Ins. Co. v. Sparks
Construction, Inc. (2004) 114 Cal.App.4th 1135, 1142.) A request for
dismissal is unnecessary because the amended complaint itself constitutes the
request for dismissal. (Ibid.; see Kuperman v. Great Republic Life
Ins. Co. (1987) 195 Cal.App.3d 943, 947 [filing of amended complaint
omitting a defendant as a party effected a dismissal of that defendant from the
action].) 
 
An amended complaint supersedes the
original one, which “ ‘ceases to perform any function as a pleading.’ ” (Foreman
& Clark Corp. v. Fallon (1971) 3 Cal.3d 875, 884.) Thus, an amended
complaint that omits a defendant has the same effect as the dismissal of a
defendant from a cause of action or complaint. (Spreckels v. Spreckels
(1916) 172 Cal. 789, 790 [omission of parties from amended pleadings is
equivalent to a voluntary dismissal as to those parties]; JKC3H8 v. Colton
(2013) 221 Cal.App.4th 468, 477.)
 
Based on the foregoing,
Defendants state that they have been dismissed as matter of law and seek
judgment on the pleadings based on this fact. However, to Defendants’ point,
they have been dismissed from this action. There is no additional relief the
Court can offer on this particular motion to an already dismissed party.
 
In opposition, Plaintiffs
acknowledge the omission of Defendants from the FAC and SAC, and request relief
under the discretionary and mandatory provisions of Code of Civil Procedure
section 473, subdivision (b). 
 
Plaintiff’s’ counsel states
that the error in omitting Defendants from the SAC was entirely his mistake, and
vaguely references some “family issues” that occurred at the time of the filing
of the SAC. (Partiyeli Decl., ¶¶ 2-4.) 
 
“The mandatory relief
provision of section 473[, subdivision] (b) is a ‘narrow exception to the
discretionary relief provision for default judgments and dismissals.’
[Citation.] Its purpose ‘ “was to alleviate the hardship on parties who lose
their day in court due solely to an inexcusable failure to act on the part
of their attorneys.” ’ ” (Henderson v. Pacific Gas & Electric Co.
(2010) 187 Cal.App.4th 215, 226; see also Zamora v. Clayborn Contracting
Group, Inc. (2002) 28 Cal.4th 249, 257.) 
 
Relief under the mandatory
provision is not available here. Plaintiffs’ counsel only provides a declaration
of attorney fault with respect to the SAC, but his declaration is devoid of any
discussion as to Defendants’ omission from the FAC. As the reply notes, Plaintiffs
filed the Complaint on April 12, 2022 and then filed Doe amendments naming
Defendants SBDTLA on May 4, 2022 and naming Greystar on June 21, 2022; the FAC,
which did not include these Defendants, was filed on February 6, 2023. Thus, Plaintiffs
could not add new parties following the filing of the SAC or through
Plaintiffs’ “NOTICE OF ERRATA, RE: SECOND AMENDED COMPLAINT COVERSHEET AND FACE
PAGE” (filed on August 30, 2023).
 
Further, discretionary relief under section 473, subdivision (b) is also
unavailable here. The six-month period
to file a motion for relief begins to run when the order or proceeding in
question “was taken.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 473, subd. (b).) Here, Plaintiffs seek relief from voluntary
dismissal that occurred on February 6, 2023 with the FAC and then again on June
5, 2023 with the SAC. The Opposition seeking this relief was not filed until March
6, 2024. Plaintiffs’ request for relief is well outside the six-month
limitation set forth in Code of Civil Procedure section 473, subdivision (b)
for discretionary relief.[2] 
 
In the alternative, Plaintiffs
request leave to amend the pleadings. As Defendants have been dismissed as a
matter of law and the Court finds this motion is moot, the Court cannot grant
leave to amend on this motion for judgment on the pleadings. As such, Plaintiffs
must file a motion for leave to amend that complies with California Rules of
Court, Rule 3.1324 if they seek to file an amended pleading.
 
 
CONCLUSION
 
The motion for
judgment on the pleadings is moot. 
 


