 Case Number:  23TRCV02090    Hearing Date:   October 3, 2023    Dept:  8 Tentative Ruling¿ 
¿¿ 
HEARING DATE:                 October 3, 2023¿¿ 
¿¿ 
CASE NUMBER:                  23TRCV02090
¿¿ 
CASE NAME:                        Louis A. Sparks, Jr. V. Willie Bell, et al. ¿¿¿ 
¿¿ 
MOVING PARTY:                Defendants, Willie Bell and Maura Bell 
 
RESPONDING PARTY:       Plaintiff, Louis A. Sparks, Jr. (No Opposition) 
¿¿ 
TRIAL DATE:                        None
Set.   
¿¿ 
MOTION:¿                              (1) Demurrer¿ 
¿ 
Tentative Rulings:                  (1) SUSTAINED, with 30 days leave
to amend.  The Court encourages Plaintiff
to seek assistance or representation of a licensed attorney to enable him to
amend his lawsuit in conformity with the law and procedural rules in the civil
courts.  
 
 
I. BACKGROUND¿¿ 
¿¿ 
A. Factual¿¿ 
¿ 
On June 29,
2023, Louis A. Sparks (“Plaintiff”) filed a complaint against Defendants,
Willie Bell, Maura Bell, Maura Sparks, Earl L Coats, Davita Dialysis, Robert
Sparks, Lois Sparks, Dennis Sparks, Wesslyn L. Hamilton, Edward E. Sarks.
Matrae L. Sparks, Marcus O. Sparks, Joyce R. Sparks, Edelberto Ysaguirre, and
Hilberto Ysaguirre (“Defendants”). The Complaint appears to allege a cause of
action for Murder. 
 
Defendants,
Willie Bell and Maura Bell now file a demurrer to the Complaint.  
 
B. Procedural¿¿ 
 
On August 31, 2023, Defendants,
Willie Bell and Maura Bell filed a demurrer. To date, no opposition has been
filed. 
 
¿II. MOVING PARTY’S GROUNDS
 
Defendants demur to Plaintiff’s
complaint on the Grounds that Plaintiff fails to state sufficient causes of
action to state the alleged causes of action, and because the complaint is
uncertain. 
 
 
III. ANALYSIS¿ 
 
A. Demurrer 
¿ 
A demurrer can be used only to challenge defects that
appear on the face of the pleading under attack or from matters outside the pleading
that are judicially noticeable. (Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311,
318.) “To survive a demurrer, the complaint need only allege facts sufficient
to state a cause of action; each evidentiary fact that might eventually form
part of the plaintiff’s proof need not be alleged.” (C.A. v. William S. Hart
Union High School Dist. (2012) 53 Cal.4th 861, 872.) For the purpose of
testing the sufficiency of the cause of action, the demurrer admits the truth
of all material facts properly pleaded. (Aubry v. Tri-City Hospital Dist.
(1992) 2 Cal.4th 962, 966-967.) A demurrer “does not admit contentions,
deductions or conclusions of fact or law.” (Daar v. Yellow Cab Co.
(1967) 67 Cal.2d 695, 713.)¿¿¿ 
 
Here, as Defendants note, Plaintiff has filed a complaint in pro per
and has, in a separate attachment, has named around sixteen defendants. The
complaint appears to be based on allegations of “murder” and “death” but states
no factual allegations, but instead attaches multiple documents. The Court
cannot gather from Plaintiff’s claims what exactly he is alleging. Pursuant to
Code of Civil Procedure § 430.10(f) a demurrer may be brought for uncertainty
when the complaint is ambiguous and unintelligible. Here, the Complaint makes
no clear causes of action, and even if he does, the Complaint presents no facts
in which he bases his allegations on. As such, the Court finds the Complaint to
be uncertain, and fails to state facts sufficient enough to state a cause of
action for murder or death. As such, the Demurrer is SUSTAINED, with 30 days
leave to amend.  
 
That means Plaintiff has until November 2, 2023 in which to file and
serve on defendants’ counsel a First Amended Complaint that contains factual
allegations in sentence or paragraph form. 
While exhibits may be attached to a complaint or amended complaint and
may be referenced or incorporated by reference in a lawsuit’s allegations.  California law requires the plaintiff to set
forth her or his allegations in sentence or paragraph form to apprise the
defendants and the Court as to what claims or causes of action are being
asserted.  Typically, this includes a
statement of the elements of each claim or cause of action being asserted, and a
succinct set of alleged facts if known to support those elements.  “Murder” is a term in the criminal law; a
lawsuit in the civil courts can be predicated on the same conduct that would
give rise to a criminal charge, but that conduct must be alleged as showing or
supporting a civil claim or cause of action.
 
¿¿¿ 
Defendants are ordered to give notice. 