 Case Number:  22TRCV01468    Hearing Date:   October 3, 2023    Dept:  8 Tentative Ruling¿ 
¿¿ 
HEARING DATE:                 October 3, 2023¿ 
¿¿ 
CASE NUMBER:                  22TRCV01468
¿¿ 
CASE NAME:                        Ronald
Guritzky v. Herbert James Henry Jr.                         .¿¿¿ 
¿¿ 
MOVING PARTY:                Defendant, Herbert James Henry Jr. 
¿¿ 
RESPONDING PARTY:       Plaintiff,
Ronald Guritzky 
¿¿ 
TRIAL DATE:                        July 29, 2024  
¿¿ 
MOTION:¿                              (1) Motion to Dismiss and/or
Motion for Summary Judgment, or in the alternative, Summary Adjudication 
                                                
¿ Tentative Rulings:                 (1)  DENIED.  
 
                                                 
I. BACKGROUND¿¿ 
¿¿ 
A. Factual¿¿ 
¿¿ 
            On December 12, 2022, Plaintiff,
Rondald Guritzky (“Plaintiff”) filed a Complaint against Defendant, Herbert J.
Henry, Jr. (“Defendant”), and DOES 1 through 10. On December 14, 2022,
Plaintiff filed a First Amened Complaint (“FAC”) alleging causes of action for:
(1) Breach of Promissory Note; (2) Breach of Contract; (3) Common Counts – Open
Book Account; and (4) Common Counts – Account Stated.  The Opposition to the pending motion indicates
that Defendant is Plaintiff’s brother in law and that Plaintiff loaned his
relative $152,000, approximately one-fifth of which was repaid through
September of 2022 but a balance remains.
 
            Defendant, who is representing
himself without a lawyer, first filed a General Denial and now has filed what
he labeled as a Motion to Dismiss and/or Motion for Summary Judgment, seeking
to terminate the lawsuit.
 
B. Procedural¿¿ 
¿ 
On September 11, 2023, Defendant filed this
Motion to Dismiss and/or Summary Judgment. On September 19, 2023, Plaintiff
filed an opposition and objections to evidence. To date, no reply brief has
been filed. 
 
II. EVIDENTIARY OBJECTIONS 
 
Sustain:  Defendant’s  Exhibit A, Exhibit L, Exhibit I.  The defense exhibits are not authenticated
such as by a declaration under penalty of perjury.  They thus cannot be considered for this
motion.  
 
Overrule: None. 
 
III. ANALYSIS¿ 
 
Motion to Dismiss 
 
            Courts may
dismiss actions for numerous reasons. Defendants who are representing
themselves are held to the same standard as attorneys, and attorneys are
required to identify the statutory grounds supporting dismissal when they seek
that ruling from a judge hearing the motion.  The Motion refences several provisions of the California
Penal Code, including the forgery statute, which are definitions of crimes
rather than grounds for dismissal of a civil case.  A contract defense can be proof by the
defendant that the claimed promissory note attached to the First Amended Complaint
is a forgery, but claiming it is so and proving the forgery requires proof, not
mere assertions in a brief.  The Court
cannot determine if the motion to dismiss is actually a demurrer, which if it
were then the demurrer would be overruled because Mr. Henry previously field a
General Denial so his right to file a demurrer has expired, and because the First
Amended Complaint contains sufficient allegations of the four causes of action
asserted.  The reference to Civil Code
section 1624, the Statute of Frauds, could potentially provide a defense and
the Opposition brief does not address a statute of frauds defense directly at
all.  However, the motion fails to state
or establish what aspect of the Statute of Frauds or which subdivision of
Section 1624 is implicated here, or to provide admissible evidence on which the
Court could make such a determination.   As such, the Motion to Dismiss is DENIED. 
 
Motion for Summary Judgment 
 
The function of a motion for summary judgment or
adjudication is to allow a determination as to whether an opposing party cannot
show evidentiary support for a pleading or claim and to enable an order of
summary dismissal without the need for trial. (Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield
Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 843.) CCP Section 437(c) “requires the trial
judge to grant summary judgment if all the evidence submitted, and ‘all
inferences reasonably deducible from the evidence’ and uncontradicted by other
inferences or evidence, show that there is no triable issue as to any material
fact and that the moving party is entitled to judgment as a matter of law.”¿ (Adler
v. Manor Healthcare Corp. (1992) 7 Cal.App.4th 1110, 1119.)¿ “The function
of the pleadings in a motion for summary judgment is to delimit the scope of
the issues; the function of the affidavits or declarations is to disclose
whether there is any triable issue of fact within the issues delimited by the
pleadings.”¿ (Juge v. County of Sacramento (1993) 12 Cal.App.4th 59, 67,
citing FPI Development, Inc. v. Nakashima (1991) 231 Cal. App. 3d 367,
381-382.)¿ 
 
As to each claim as framed by the complaint, the defendant
moving for summary judgment must satisfy the initial burden of proof by
presenting facts to negate an essential element, or to establish a defense.
(CCP § 437c(p)(2); Scalf v. D. B. Log Homes, Inc. (2005) 128 Cal.App.4th
1510, 1520. ) Courts “liberally construe the evidence in support of the party
opposing summary judgment and resolve doubts concerning the evidence in favor
of that party.”¿ (Dore v. Arnold Worldwide, Inc.¿(2006) 39 Cal.4th 384,
389.)¿ 
 
Once the defendant has met that burden, the burden shifts
to the plaintiff to show that a triable issue of one or more material facts
exists as to that cause of action or a defense thereto.¿¿¿ 
 
To establish a triable issue of material fact, the party
opposing the motion must produce substantial responsive evidence that is
admissible under the rules of evidence. (Sangster v. Paetkau (1998) 68
Cal.App.4th 151, 166.) 
 
Procedural Requirements
 
            Preliminarily,
Defendant’s Motion for Summary Judgment fails on numerous procedural grounds.
Pursuant to California Rules of Court, Rule 3.1350, a Motion for Summary
Judgment must contain and be supported by the following documents: (1) Notice
of Motion; Separate Statement of undisputed material facts in support of the
motion; (3) Memorandum in support of motion; (4) Evidence in support of motion;
and (5) Request for judicial notice in support of motion. (CRC, Rule
3.1350(c)(1-5).) Here, although Plaintiff attempts to include a memorandum in support
of his motion, as well as evidence in support of the motion, the other
requirements are missing from Plaintiff’s Motion for Summary Judgment. Moreover,
the motion is set for hearing in violation of California’s longer time periods
for notice of a motion for summary judgment. 
The most critical missing element for a valid California summary
judgment motion are a lack of admissible evidence, such as a declaration under
penalty of perjury to carry the moving party’s initial burden of proof, or
authenticated exhibits from which the Court could finds that a signature was or
was not forged.  Further, there is no
Separate Statement of Undisputed Material Facts with reference to the
supporting evidence, another mandatory requirement for a proper California
motion for summary judgment.  The absence
of either of these missing elements is sufficient ground for the Court to deny
summary judgment.  
 
            Defendant
Fails to Carry His Burden on Motion for Summary Judgment
 
            When
bringing a Motion for Summary Judgment, the initial burden is on Defendant to
demonstrate to the Court that there are no triable issues of material fact.
Here, Plaintiff’s moving papers only allege that Plaintiff’s evidence as
provided by allegations in the complaint, are “fraudulent” and “do not rise to
the standards of a valid enforceable promissory note.”   Defendant asserts that upon comparison of
Exhibit A (as to which the Court has sustained objection), and Exhibit I, there
is “probable cause” that this document was forged and/or altered by the
Plaintiff, specifically his initials HJH JR in the upper left of the document
as well as the entire top half of the document. Such statements and arguments
by Defendant, which are not statement under penalty of perjury and thus cannot
be considered as admissible evidence, do not satisfy his burden of showing that
there is no issue of material fact. As such, the Motion for Summary Judgment is
DENIED. 
 
 
Plaintiff is ordered to give
notice. 