  Case Number:  22TRCP00389    Hearing Date:   October 3, 2023    Dept:  8 Tentative
Ruling 
¿ 
HEARING DATE:                 October 3, 2023¿ 
¿ 
CASE NUMBER:                  22TRCP00389
¿ 
CASE NAME:                        Alan Elias v.
West Coast Laboratories, Inc. 
¿ ¿ 
MOVING PARTY:                Respondent,
West Coast Laboratories, Inc.
 
RESPONDING PARTY:       Petitioner,
Alan Elias  
 
MOTION:¿                              (1) Motion to Compel Further
Responses, Without Objections, to Requests for Production, Set One
                                                (2)
Motion to Compel Further Responses, Without Objection, to Requests for
Admission, Set One
                                                (3)
Motion to Compel Further Responses, Without Objections, to Form
Interrogatories, Set One
                                                (4)
Request for Sanctions
 
Tentative Rulings:                  (1) Motion to Compel RFP is
DENIED as to 1, 2, and 4
                                                (2)
Motion to Compel RFAs ; the Court will entertain oral argument as to relevancy
                                                (3)
Motion to Compel FROGS is to be argued as to 17.1, since the interrogatory
responses are dependent on whether the Court orders responses to the
corresponding RFAs, but GRANTED as to 2.5. 
                                                (4)
Request for Sanctions as to RFPs, RFAs, and FROG 17.1 is denied.  Each side had substantial justification for
its position regardless of which way the Court rules  
 
 
                                                 
 
I. BACKGROUND¿ 
¿ 
A. Factual¿ 
¿¿ 
            On October 21, 2022, Petitioner,
Alan Elias (“Petitioner”), filed a Writ of Mandate against Respondent, West
Coast Laboratories, Inc. (“Respondent” or “WCL”.) On February 14, 2023,
Petitioner filed an Amended Writ of Mandate. (“AWOM”.) Petitioner requested in
his writ of mandate to allow his accountant, Ashraf Attalah, to inspect the
“accounting books, records, and minutes of proceedings of the shareholder and
the board” as allowed under California Corporations Code section 1601.
 
            On April 13, 2023, Respondent notes
that it propounded on Defendant a set of Requests for Production, Requests for
Admission, and Form Interrogatories, Set One. Respondent notes that on May 26,
2023, Petitioner sent their responses to Respondent. However, Respondent argues
that for Requests for Production Nos 1-4, Requests for Admission Nos. 1-7 and
26-29, and Form Interrogatories Nos. 2.5, and 17.1 contain boilerplate
objections. As such, Respondent has brought these Motions to Compel Further
Responses.  
 
B. Procedural  
 
On
July 12, 2023, Respondent brought its Motions to Compel Further. On August 9,
2023, Plaintiff filed an opposition. To date, no reply brief has been filed.  On August 17, 2023, the Court granted an ex
parte application to continue the discovery motions and the trial date.
 
¿II. ANALYSIS ¿ 
¿ 
A.   
Legal Standard 
“Unless otherwise limited by order
of the court in accordance with this title, any party may obtain discovery
regarding any matter, not privileged, that is relevant to the subject matter involved
in the pending action or to the determination of any motion made in that
action, if the matter either is itself admissible in evidence or appears
reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence.” (Code
of Civ. Proc. § 2017.010.) For discovery purposes, information is regarded as
relevant “if it might reasonably assist a party in evaluating the case,
preparing for trial, or facilitating settlement thereof.” (City of Los
Angeles v. Superior Court (2017) 9 Cal.App.5th 272, 288.)  
A motion to compel further
responses to a demand for inspection or production of documents (“RFP”) may be
brought based on: (1) incomplete statements of compliance; (2) inadequate,
evasive, or incomplete claims of inability to comply; or (3) unmerited or
overly generalized objections.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.310(c).) A
motion to compel further production must set forth specific facts showing good
cause justifying the discovery sought by the inspection demand. (See Code Civ.
Proc., § 2031.310(b)(1).) In Digital Music News LLC v Superior Court
(2014) 226 Cal.App.4th 216 at 224, the Court defined “good cause” as a showing
that there “a disputed fact that is of consequence in the action and the
discovery sought will tend in reason to prove or disprove that fact or lead to
other evidence that will tend to prove or disprove the fact.” If the
moving party has shown good cause for the requests for production, the burden
is on the objecting party to justify the objections. (Kirkland v. Sup.Ct
(2002) 95 Cal. App.4th 92, 98.) 
Further,
“Any party may obtain
discovery . . . by propounding to any other party to the action written
interrogatories to be answered under oath.”¿ (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.010,
subd. (a).)¿¿ “The party to whom
interrogatories have been propounded shall respond in writing under oath
separately to each interrogatory by any of the following: (1) An answer
containing the information sought to be discovered[;] (2) An exercise of the
party's option to produce writings[;] (3) An objection to the particular interrogatory.”¿
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.210, subd. (a).)¿“On receipt of a response to
interrogatories, the propounding party may move for an order compelling a
further response if the propounding party deems that any of the following
apply: (1) An answer to a particular interrogatory is evasive or incomplete[;]
(2) An exercise of the option to produce documents under Section 2030.230 is
unwarranted or the required specification of those documents is inadequate[;]
(3) An objection to an interrogatory is without merit or too general.”¿ (Code
Civ. Proc., § 2030.300, subd. (a).)¿ 
 
Additionally, Code of Civil Procedure section
2033.290, subdivision (a), provides that “[o]n receipt of a particular response
to requests for admissions, the party requesting admissions may move for an
order compelling a further response if that party deems that either or both of
the following apply: (1) An answer to a particular request is evasive or
incomplete[;] (2) An objection to a particular request is without merit or too
general.”  Notice of the motion must be
given within 45 days of service of the verified response, otherwise the
propounding party waives the right to compel a further response. (Code Civ.
Proc., § 2033.290, subd. (c).) The motions must also be accompanied by a meet
and confer declaration. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2033.290, subd. (b).)    
 
"The
court shall limit the scope of discovery if it determines that the burden,
expense, or intrusiveness of that discovery clearly outweighs the likelihood
that the information sought will lead to the discovery of admissible
evidence." (Cal. Code of Civ. Proc. § 2017.020(a).) Generally, objections
on the ground of burden require the objecting party to produce evidence of (a)
the propounding party's subjective intent to create burden or (b) the amount of
time and effort it would take to respond. (See West Pico Furniture Co. of
Los Angeles v. Superior Court In and For Los Angeles County (1961) 56
Cal.2d 407, 417.) However, no such evidence is necessary where discovery is
obviously overbroad on its face. (See Obregon v. Superior Court (1998)
67 Cal.App.4th 424, 431.)
 
B.    
Discussion
 
RFP Nos. 1-4
 
            Here,
Respondent argues that RFP Nos. 1 through 4 are relevant to Petitioner’s claim,
and to Respondent’s ability to effectively defend itself. Respondent asserts
that Petitioner answered in “boilerplate” language, stating that such requests
were vague, ambiguous, and overbroad as to content, scope, and time, that to
comply with the request would pose an undue burden on the Responding Party and
the request is intended to annoy or harass thereof, and tat it is irrelevant
and beyond the scope of permissible discovery. Further, Respondent noted that
Petitioner also objected on the basis of premature disclosure of expert
witnesses, the equal availability of the sought information to the propounding
party, and work product privilege. However, Respondent contends that the
requests for production are simply none of what Petitioner claims in the objections.
Instead, Respondent argues they are clear, with narrow timeframe, and within
scope of this litigation. Respondent next notes that Petitioner also objected
asserting the information sought is equally available to the propounding party,
but Respondent contends Petitioner has full and direct access to the requested
information, whereas Respondent would need to traverse multiple communication
channels to obtain the same information. 
 
            In
opposition, Petitioner argues that this action is a petition for a writ of
mandate under Corporations Code § 1601, and analyzes whether Petitioner is a
shareholder of WCL, and if so, whether he can ask for the records, whether he
is entitled to them, and whether he can copy them. However, Petitioner argues
that Respondent’s discovery does not seek to determine whether or not
Petitioner is a shareholder, and instead, is a “fishing expedition” involving a
past and ongoing history of litigation between the Shad family, of whom Alan
Elias is a member, and seeks discovery from other cases involving the parties.
With respect to the RFPs, Petitioner argues that they are not reasonably
calculated or particularized, noting they ask for Elias’ communications with
his accountant, and Elias’ contracts and communications with WCL. However,
Petitioner argues this case is not about HIS books or records but is about
WCLs. Petitioner contends he is not obligated to open his books to the
corporation, nor are his contracts with WCL relevant to his inspection rights. 
            
            The Court
agrees that the records sought in RFP Nos. 1, 2, and 4 are irrelevant to the
present action.  While those records may be
pertinent to Petitioner’s true motives, which Respondent suspects, the Court
does not believe his actual motives matter if he has a statutory right to
inspect the subject records.  As to RFP
No. 3, the scope of this discovery request may be seeking contracts between
Petitioner and Respondent as a way of determining Petitioner’s role as a
shareholder, which appears to be legitimate discovery.  The Court’s tentative is thus to grant a
motion to compel as to RFP No. 3 only, and to permit oral argument as to the
scope of production.   
 
Request for Admission Nos. 1-7; 26-29
 
On the RFA motion, Respondent argues that Petitioner’s
objections to RFAs Nos. 1 through 7 are improper. These RFAs seek receipt of Petitioner’s
financial documents (Tax Returns from 2019 to 2021, Bank Statements from 2019
through July 2021, Balance Sheets for the period of 2019-2021, Profit
and Loss Statements for the period 2019-2021, and Trial Balances for the period
2019-2021.) Respondent notes that Petitioner’s objections to these requests includes
premature disclosure of expert opinion, but the Court disagrees.  Further, Respondent argues that Petitioner
also objects based on equally available information, work product privilege,
and that he is not an accountant, and he forwards the records directly to his
accountant. However, Respondent notes that the requests only seek Petitioner’s
acknowledgement that he received such documents. 
 
In
opposition, Petitioner argues that the RFAs relating to documents are ambiguous
and argumentative as Petitioner cannot admit whether he received “the Balance
Sheet” or “the Profit and Loss statements” from WCL. Instead, Petitioner
contends that that is the entire point of this action, as Petitioner does not
know what he has or does not have. Petitioner further argues that the RFAs
reference extrinsic documents and are not self-contained, and as such, cannot
be admitted or denied. Petitioner posits that if WCL had attached documents and
asked for admissions regarding their receipt or genuineness, then there might
be a proper request. Instead, Petitioner contends that what was made, and what
was objected to, is simply argumentative and a transparent attempt to obviate
WCL’s obligations to make its books and records available to a shareholder.
Lastly, Petitioner argues that if WCL’s premise is that it has previously
provided some of the books and records, or even all of them, that does not mean
that Petitioner has lost his right to request them again, in their most current
and updated form. 
 
The
Court is not persuaded by the briefing that such admissions are relevant to the
present action, but the Court has an open mind and will therefore invite oral
argument as to relevancy.   In Respondent’s moving papers, it appears that
Respondent has requested these admissions to prove that Petitioner had current
knowledge of WCL’s financial situation from having access to WCL’s annual
financial documents and discussing such with his accountant.  While that may or may not be true, the Court
is unclear as to why an admission of the same is material to Petitioner’s shareholder
rights to inspect the records again or to have his account re-examine the
records.  The Court will allow oral
argument as to relevancy with respect to Corporations Code § 1601 
 
Further,
Respondent argues that Petitioner’s objections to RFAs 26-29 ae improper.
Respondent contends that Petitioner’s relevance objection to admission that he
did not pay $5,000 to his accountant for the review of WCL’s books and records
between 2019-2022 is groundless and improper as Respondent contends that such
discovery is relevant. Again, the Court will allow oral argument as to the
relevance of such requests with respect to this case.
 
Form
Interrogatories 2.5 and 17.1
 
            Lastly, Respondent argues
Petitioner’s objections to Form Interrogatories 2.5 and 17.1 are improper. As
to FROG 2.5, Respondent argues that Petitioner’s current and previous address
are relevant and speaks to his character and ability to effectively be informed
about the current state of business. As a general note, the Court contends that
responses to FROGS are almost always going to be found to be relevant as they
are Judicial Council-approved requests. Here, the Court orders Petitioner to
respond to FROG 2.5. 
            
            As for FROG 17.1, the Court will
determine whether Petitioner need respond further after oral argument as to the
corresponding RFAs. 
 
C.   
Sanctions 
Sanctions are mandatory in
connection with motions to compel responses to interrogatories and requests for
production of documents against any party, person, or attorney who
unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel.¿¿(CCP. §§ 2030.290(c),¿2030.300(d),¿2031.300(c),¿and
2031.310(h).) However, sanctions are not mandatory if the court “finds that the
one subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other
circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.”¿¿(Id.) 
            Here, it appears that each side has
presented a bona fide basis for its position that the discovery is
objectionable or discoverable. 
Accordingly, sanctions are denied. 
 