  Case Number:  21PSCV00172    Hearing Date:   July 11, 2024    Dept:  K Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant Manking ELS LLC’s and
Cross-Defendants Chung Chin Tsai aka Johnny Tsai’s and Kenny Tsai’s Motion to
Set Aside Default is GRANTED. The court awards attorney’s fees and costs in the reduced amount of $329.04, payable
within 30 days from the date of the notice of ruling.
Background   
Plaintiff Manking ELS, LLC (“Manking”) alleges as follows:
On May 19, 2017, Manking entered into a Commercial Lease Agreement (“CLA”)
with Enhancer Elsinore, LLC (“Enhancer”), Esther Lin (“Lin”) and Walter Lynn (“Lynn”)
(collectively, “Defendants”) pertaining to the Elsinore Hot Springs Motel
(“Property”). The CLA, which was to be effective on June 16, 2017, called for a
three-year lease term. At Defendants’ request, the parties on June 16, 2017
signed an Addendum, extending the lease from July 16, 2017 to such date at
which inspections pass to qualify the Property for an occupancy permit. At the
same time the parties executed the CLA, Defendants drafted a Hotel Management
Agreement (“HMA”), which the parties entered into on June 16, 2017. Defendants
failed to pay rent and failed to manage and maintain the Property.
On November 12, 2021, Manking filed a Second Amended Complaint, asserting
causes of action against Defendants and Does 1-10 for:
1.                 
Breach
of Written Contract
2.                 
Fraud/Misrepresentation
3.                 
Negligent
Misrepresentation
4.                 
Breach
of Fiduciary Duties
5.                 
Common
Counts
6.                 
Accounting

On March 1, 2022, the court sustained Defendants’ demurrer to the second
and third causes of action, without leave to amend.
On March 25, 2024, Defendants filed a First Amended Cross-Complaint
(“FACC”), asserting causes of action against Manking, Chung Chin Tsai aka
Johnny Tsai (“J. Tsai”), Kenny Tsai (“K. Tsai”) and Roes 1-50 for:
1.                 
Rescission
2.                 
Breach
of Contract (In the Alternative)
3.                 
Intentional
Misrepresentation
4.                 
Negligent
Misrepresentation
5.                 
Negligence
6.                 
Disgorgement
On May 8, 2024,
Manking’s, J. Tsai’s and K. Tsai’s defaults were entered on the FACC.
A Trial Setting
Conference is set for July 11, 2024.
Legal Standard
“The court may, upon any terms as may be just, relieve a party
or his or her legal representative from a judgment, dismissal, order, or other
proceeding taken against him or her through his or her mistake, inadvertence,
surprise, or excusable neglect. Application for this relief shall be
accompanied by a copy of the answer or other pleading proposed to be filed
therein, otherwise the application shall not be granted, and shall be made
within a reasonable time, in no case exceeding six months, after the judgment,
dismissal, order, or proceeding was taken . . . Notwithstanding any other
requirements of this section, the court shall, whenever an application for
relief is made no more than six months after entry of judgment, is in proper
form, and is accompanied by an attorney's sworn affidavit attesting to his or
her mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or neglect, vacate any (1) resulting
default entered by the clerk against his or her client, and which will result
in entry of a default judgment, or (2) resulting default judgment or dismissal
entered against his or her client, unless the court finds that the default or
dismissal was not in fact caused by the attorney's mistake, inadvertence,
surprise, or neglect. . .” (Code Civ. Proc., § 473, subd. (b).)
Discussion
Manking, J. Tsai and
K. Tsai (together, “Cross-Defendants”) move the court for an order, per
Code of Civil Procedure § 473, subdivision (b), setting aside the default
entered against them on the FACC, on the basis of mistake, inadvertence,
surprise, or excusable neglect.
Cross-Defendants’ counsel Maxwell Lin (“Lin”) attests that
the date for response to the FACC was mis-calendared due to a clerical error by
a member of his staff (Lin Decl., ¶ 4); that he did not notice the mistake for
several days “due to an unusually heavy calendar (Id.); that on May 6,
2024 opposing counsel Jason Feazell (“Feazell”) emailed him and indicated that
if a response was not filed that day, he would file a request for default (Id.,
¶ 5); that he did not notice Feazell’s above statement because it was “part of
a thread wherein other matters were being discussed” until May 8, 2024 (Id.);
that he prepared the answer which was filed May 9, 2024 (Id., ¶ 5, Exh.
A) and that he later learned that Cross-Defendants’ default had been filed and
entered on May 8, 2024 (Id., ¶ 6).
The motion is
granted on the mandatory basis of attorney affidavit of fault.
Enhancer, Lin and
Lynn urge the court to award them attorneys fees and costs in the amount of
$1,379.04 for pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure § 473, subdivisions (b).
(Opp., 5:23-6:2). Subdivision (b) provides, in relevant part, that “[t]he court
shall, whenever relief is granted based on an attorney’s affidavit of fault,
direct the attorney to pay reasonable compensatory legal fees and costs to
opposing counsel or parties . . .”
Under the
circumstances, the court is inclined to award attorneys fees and costs in the
reduced amount of $329.04 (i.e., 1 hour at $300.00/hour, plus $29.04 filing
fee), which are payable within 30 days from the date of the notice of ruling.