  Case Number:  20LBCV00129    Hearing Date:   January 14, 2025    Dept:  S27 1.    
Background
Facts
Plaintiffs, Michael, Injin, and Nicholas Park filed this action against
Defendants, Foasberg Laundry and Cleaners, Inc., Richard D. Foasberg, the
Estate of Richard D. Foasberg, Marisa Foasberg, Lynette Jean Vavrek, and JRJ
Limited Partnership for damages arising out of contamination on Defendants’
property for which Plaintiffs have incurred removal and/or remedial action
costs in connection with the Hazardous Substance Account Act.  
 
Plaintiffs filed their complaint on 3/03/20, and Defendants filed an
answer on 10/07/20.  Plaintiffs’
complaint includes causes of action for California Superfund Act, Negligence,
Trespass, Nuisance, Breach of Contract, and Declaratory Relief.  
 
On 8/08/20, Defendants filed a cross-complaint against United Fabricare
Supply, Inc. and Hoyt Corporation.  On
4/02/21, Defendants filed their operative FACC against United and Hoyt, as well
as Kelleher Equipment Supply, Inc., Renzacci of America, Inc., R.R. Street
& Co., Inc., and SPX Cooling Technologies, Inc.  The FACC seeks indemnification and
contribution, as well as related claims and remedies, against the cross-defendants.  The crux of the cross-complaint is that the
cross-defendants manufactured, distributed, etc., dry cleaning products for the
property, and/or they serviced those products for the property.  
 
2.    
Motion
to Continue Trial
a.     History of Trial Continuances
Defendants first sought an order continuing trial on 4/08/21.  They established that environmental
investigation of the property must be completed and a remedy must be selected
before the trial, and that this process would take at least three years to
complete.  Defendants also noted that
additional parties would likely be added to the case, and substantial discovery
remained to be undertaken prior to trial. 
The motion was joined by Plaintiffs and not opposed by any party.  Thereafter, the trial in the case was
continued multiple times without opposition. 

 
On 2/22/24, the Court heard and granted Foasberg’s most recent motion
to continue trial over RR’s opposition. 
The Court found Foasberg adequately showed it had been actively pursuing
discovery, but despite its best efforts, trial could not go forward.  Relevant to this motion, the Court noted:
Despite these delays, moving parties contend they are still diligently
attempting to carry out the remainder of the SVGAWP. Genesis anticipates that
it will commence field work in February of 2024. (Van der Hoven Decl. ¶ 5e.)
Genesis estimates that, as of the filing of this Motion, that the environmental
investigation at the site is approximately 35% completed. (Van der Hoven Decl.
¶ 5e.) As such, Genesis estimates that the delineation of the site will be
completed in late 2024 or early 2025; however, that timeframe could increase if
the revised plan indicates that additional investigation is needed to fully
delineate the site. (Van der Hoven Decl. ¶ 5e.) A study to determine the proper
remedy will begin after that.
 
b.    
Law
Governing Trial Continuance
Trial dates are firm to ensure prompt disposition of civil cases. (Cal.
Rules of Court, rule 3.1332, subd. (a).) Continuances are thus generally
disfavored. (See id., rule 3.1332, subd. (b).) Nevertheless, the trial court
has discretion to continue trial dates. (Hernandez v. Superior Court (2004) 115
Cal.App.4th 1242, 1246.) Each request for continuance must be considered on its
own merits and is granted upon an affirmative showing of good cause. (Cal.
Rules of Court, rule 3.1332, subd. (c); Hernandez, supra, 115 Cal.App.4th at p.
1246.) 
 
Circumstances that may indicate good cause include: (1) the
unavailability of an essential lay or expert witness due to death, illness, or
other excusable circumstances; (2) the unavailability of a party due to death,
illness, or other excusable circumstances; (3) the unavailability of trial
counsel due to death, illness, or other excusable circumstances; (4) the
substitution of trial counsel where there is an affirmative showing that the
substitution is required in the interests of justice; (5) the addition of a new
party if (A) the new party has not had a reasonable opportunity to conduct
discovery and prepare for trial, or (B) the other parties have not had a
reasonable opportunity to conduct discovery and prepare for trial in regard to
the new party’s involvement in the case; (6) a party’s excused inability to
obtain essential testimony, documents, or other material evidence despite
diligent efforts; or (7) a significant, unanticipated change in the status of
the case as a result of which the case is not ready for trial. (Cal. Rules of
Court, rule 3.1332, subd. (c).) 
 
The court must also consider such relevant factors as: (1) the
proximity of the trial date; (2) whether there was any previous continuance,
extension of time, or delay of trial caused by any party; (3) the length of the
continuance requested; (4) the availability of alternative means to address the
problem that gave rise to the motion or application for a continuance; (5) the
prejudice that parties or witnesses will suffer as a result of the continuance;
(6) if the case is entitled to a preferential trial setting, the reasons for
that status and whether the need for a continuance outweighs the need to avoid
delay; (7) the court’s calendar and the impact of granting a continuance on
other pending trials; (8) whether trial counsel is engaged in another trial;
(9) whether all parties have stipulated to a continuance; (10) whether the
interests of justice are best served by a continuance, by the trial of the
matter, or by imposing conditions on the continuance; and (11) any other fact
or circumstance relevant to the fair determination of the motion or
application. (Id., at rule 3.1332, subd. (d).)
 
c.    
Parties’
Positions 
As an initial note, both parties
discuss events that occurred prior to the 4/22/24 continuance of the
trial.  The Court already determined
Foasberg was adequately diligent prior to that time.  The Court, therefore, is focused on events
that have occurred subsequent to that continuance, and will not address the
parties’ arguments concerning events prior to 4/22/24.
 
Foasberg details the efforts that
have been made to proceed toward trial. 
It explains that, in March of 2024, after resolving insurance-related
issues, Genesis resubmitted the encroachment permit application to install
groundwater sampling wells and nested soil vapor probes off-site in the public
right-of-ways.  In July, LBDPW approved
the encroachment permit, which permitted Genesis to proceed with installation
and sampling work related to the SVGAWP. 
Foasberg began coordinating with neighboring properties to obtain the
earliest available dates for sampling, and also began coordinating with
Plaintiffs to obtain approval for on-site work. 
In August, Genesis submitted Foasberg’s SVE Pilot Study Work Plan for
review.  Foasberg made attempts to
expedite this process.  In September,
Genesis began sampling the property.  In
October, Genesis took steps to schedule the SVE pilot study, which was set for
the end of the month.  Genesis will be
submitting reports by January of 2025, but Genesis is required to create
reports in the wet and dry season, and the round of sampling for the wet season
will not be completed until May of 2025. 
Additionally, because of the results of the prior sampling, sampling at
more remote locations is necessary, and that sampling must be approved, which
means it will not be completed until at least August of 2025.  Foasberg notes that all of this sampling
absolutely must be completed before RWQCB will approve any remedy, which means
adhering to the current trial date will lead to renewed subsequent
litigation.  Foasberg seeks a continuance
through 8/29/25, which it contends will comply with the five-year dismissal
statute.
 
RR opposes the motion.  It contends the delays are of Foasberg’s own
making.  It contends Foasberg should have
been testing neighboring properties from the beginning, but chose to wait until
it was ordered to do so.  It contends
Foasberg, at the 6/14/24 status conference, told the Court testing would be
done by early 2025, a position it reiterated in connection with future status
conferences.  It provides an expert
declaration stating that the proposed permits should have only taken a few
weeks to obtain, and the extensions, caused by Foasberg, have unreasonably
delayed the process.  It contends
Foasberg has refused to timely provide data to it, such that it could not
review the data and prepare for trial. 
It notes that Foasberg concedes testing and reports will likely not be
completed until after 8/29/25, such that another trial date will be
necessary.  It concludes the motion should
be denied.  
 
Notably, any reply to the
opposition was due on or before 1/07/25. 
The Court has not received timely reply papers.  The Court is aware that the ongoing fire
situation in the greater Los Angeles area could be affecting Foasberg’s ability
to submit timely reply papers.  In the
event this is the case, the Court will entertain late reply arguments at the
hearing on the motion.  
d.     Analysis
The Court is in a bit of an
untenable position with respect to this motion. 
The trial has been continued many times, and RR is entitled to have its
day in court.  That said, and even if the
delays are, as RR insists, of Foasberg’s own making, it is unclear what that
day in court would look like if the trial were not continued.  RR does not suggest, in opposition to the
motion, HOW the trial could go forward without all required testing being
completed.  
 
That said, the Court is concerned
that Foasberg is indicating testing during “wet” season is necessary, but
winter has, to date, been dry, and significant drought is predicted for this
year’s normally rainy season.  If there
is no rainy season, how will this affect testing and delays?
 
The Court is satisfied with
Foasberg’s showing that the five-year statute will not be affected by a
continuance to 8/29/25, a showing RR does not contest.  The Court wishes to hear from the parties, at
the hearing, on the following issues:
·        
First and foremost, Foasberg must be prepared,
at the hearing, to give a meaningful assessment of the timeline for preparing
this case for trial.  If RR believes
anything can and should be done by Foasberg to expedite the process, RR must be
prepared to discuss those options.  The
Court will consider issuing orders that require Foasberg to adhere to a
timeline, with the understanding that some governmental entities’ response times
may be out of Foasberg’s control.
·        
Second, the parties must be prepared to address
what a trial would look like if testing were not complete.  Could issues of liability be assessed, even
if issues of actual damages would need to be tabled for later?  In other words, is there a way to bifurcate
the trial so that RR can have its day in court even though some required
testing is not completed?  Could
bifurcation potentially streamline settlement discussions when future testing
is ultimately completed?
The Court asks the parties to make
arrangements to appear remotely at the hearing on the motion.  