 Case Number:  23LBCV01255    Hearing Date:   January 14, 2025    Dept:  S27 1.    
Background Facts
Plaintiff, Eric Cleveland filed this action against Defendants, Cancun
Properties LLC, Anjai Savire LLC, and Sirenitas Restaurant, Inc. for violations
of the ADA and UNRUH, contending he has osteoarthritis and Defendants’ property
is in violation of the ADA and UNRUH because it needs to have an asphalt
overlap in the parking area and needs to have work done on the disabled parking
space for the property.  
 
2.     Motion for Leave to Amend
Plaintiff hired an expert to examine Defendant’s property, and the
expert discovered additional nonconformities on the property.  Plaintiff seeks leave to amend the complaint
to add allegations concerning the other nonconformities.  CCP §473(a) provides for liberal amendment of
complaints.  In light of the lack of
opposition to the motion, as well as the liberal standard in favor of
amendment, the motion for leave to amend is granted.  
 
The Court notes that Plaintiff filed the amended complaint on 9/24/24,
contemporaneously with filing the moving papers.  The amended complaint was erroneously marked
“filed” instead of “lodged.”  The amended
complaint is deemed filed as of today’s hearing date, not 9/24/24.  Defendant must file a responsive pleading
within twenty days of today’s hearing date. 
If Defendant does not do so, its answer to the original complaint will
be deemed its answer to the amended complaint. 

 
3.     Discovery Motions
The Court notes that Plaintiff has
scheduled six future discovery motions. 
This is in addition to the prior discovery motion the Court heard on
7/25/24.  The hearing on all six motions
will be held on 2/13/25, the last scheduled date of the six hearings.  The 1/16, 1/30, 2/04, and 2/06 motions are
all continued to 2/13/25 at 8:30 a.m. in Department S27.  The parties must meet and confer in good
faith to resolve the discovery disputes. 
If the parties are unable to do so, the Court will likely appoint a discovery
referee on 2/13/25 in lieu of ruling on the motions.  The Court therefore also schedules an OSC re:
appointment of discovery referee for 2/13/25. 
If necessary, the Court will briefly continue the FSC and trial dates to
permit the referee to rule on the motions. 

 
Plaintiff is ordered to give
notice.  
 
Parties who intend to submit
on this tentative must send an email to the court at gdcdepts27@lacourt.org indicating intention to submit on the tentative
as directed by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  If a party submits on
the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must identify
the party submitting on the tentative.  If
the parties do not submit on the tentative, they should arrange to appear
remotely.