 Case Number:  22STCV02259    Hearing Date:   January 14, 2025    Dept:  S27 1.    
Background
Facts
Plaintiff, Lea Encarnacion filed this action against Defendants, Conair
Corporation, Conair LLC, BaBylissPRO, Derrick Deering, Ashley Lavalle, Kevin
Kird, and Reggie Marcel for damages arising out of damage to her scalp when her
hair was dyed and bleached while working as a model for Defendants’ event.  Plaintiff’s complaint includes causes of
action for general negligence, personal injury, and products liability.  
 
On 9/20/23, Conair LLC filed a cross-complaint for express indemnity,
breach of contract, equitable indemnity, contribution, and declaratory relief
against Transom Symphony OpCo, LLC dba Beauty Quest Group.  The crux of the cross-complaint is that
Conair entered into an asset purchase agreement with Transom pursuant to which
Transom agreed to indemnify Conair for any damages relating to any Rusk
products.  
 
2.    
Motion
for Summary Judgment/Adjudication
a.    
Burdens
on Summary Judgment
Summary judgment is proper “if all
the papers submitted show that there is no triable issue as to any material
fact and that the moving party is entitled to judgment as a matter of
law.”  (Code Civ. Proc. §437c(c).)  Where a defendant seeks summary judgment or
adjudication, he must show that either “one or more elements of the cause of
action, even if not separately pleaded, cannot be established, or that there is
a complete defense to that cause of action.” 
(Id. at §437c(o)(2).)  A defendant
may satisfy this burden by showing that the claim “cannot be established”
because of the lack of evidence on some essential element of the claim.  (Union Bank v. Superior Court (1995) 31
Cal.App.4th 574, 590.)  Once the
defendant meets this burden, the burden shifts to the plaintiff to show that a
“triable issue of one or more material facts exists as to that cause of action
or defense thereto.”  (Ibid.)  
 
The moving party bears the initial
burden of production to make a prima facie showing that there are no triable
issues of material fact.  (Aguilar v.
Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 850.)  A defendant moving for summary judgment must
show either (1) that one or more elements of the cause of action cannot be
established or (2) that there is a complete defense to that cause of action.  (Id. at §437c(p).)  A defendant may discharge this burden by
furnishing either (1) affirmative evidence of the required facts or (2)
discovery responses conceding that the plaintiff lacks evidence to establish an
essential element of the plaintiff's case. If a defendant chooses the latter
option he or she must present evidence “and not simply point out that plaintiff
does not possess and cannot reasonably obtain needed evidence….” Aguilar,
supra, 25 Cal.4th at 865-66,
[A] defendant may simply show the
plaintiff cannot establish an essential element of the cause of action “by
showing that the plaintiff does not possess, and cannot reasonably obtain,
needed evidence.” (Id. at p. 854.)  Thus,
rather than affirmatively disproving or negating an element (e.g., causation),
a defendant moving for summary judgment has the option of presenting evidence
reflecting the plaintiff does not possess evidence to prove that element. “The
defendant may, but need not, present evidence that conclusively negates an
element of the plaintiff's cause of action. The defendant may also present
evidence that the plaintiff does not possess, and cannot reasonably obtain,
needed evidence—as through admissions by the plaintiff following extensive discovery
to the effect that he has discovered nothing” to support an essential element
of his case. (Aguilar, supra, at p. 855.) Under the latter approach, a
defendant's initial evidentiary showing may “consist of the deposition
testimony of the plaintiff's witnesses, the plaintiff's factually devoid
discovery responses, or admissions by the plaintiff in deposition or in
response to requests for admission that he or she has not discovered anything
that supports an essential element of the cause of action.” (Lona v. Citibank,
N.A., supra, 202 Cal.App.4th at p. 110.) 
In other words, a defendant may show the plaintiff does not possess
evidence to support an element of the cause of action by means of presenting
the plaintiff's factually devoid discovery responses from which an absence of
evidence may be reasonably inferred. (Scheiding v. Dinwiddie Construction Co.
(1999) 69 Cal.App.4th 64, 83.)
 
Thus, a moving defendant has two
means by which to shift the burden of proof under the summary judgment statute:
“The defendant may rely upon factually insufficient discovery responses by the
plaintiff to show that the plaintiff cannot establish an essential element of
the cause of action sued upon. [Citation.] [Or a]lternatively, the defendant
may utilize the tried and true technique of negating (‘disproving’) an
essential element of the plaintiff's cause of action.” (Brantly v. Pisaro
(1996) 42 Cal.App.4th 1591, 1598.)  Leyva
v. Garcia (2018) 20 Cal.App.5th 1095, 1103.
Until the moving defendant has
discharged its burden of proof, the opposing plaintiff has no burden to come
forward with any evidence. Once the moving defendant has discharged its burden
as to a particular cause of action, however, the plaintiff may defeat the
motion by producing evidence showing that a triable issue of one or more
material facts exists as to that cause of action.  (Id. at §437c(p)(2).)  On a motion for summary judgment, the moving
party's supporting documents are strictly construed and those of his opponent
liberally construed, and doubts as to the propriety of summary judgment should
be resolved against granting the motion. 
(D’Amico v. Board of Medical Examiners (1974) 11 Cal.3d 1, 21.) 
 
b.     Law
Governing Summary Judgment Based on Factually Devoid Discovery Responses
A party moving for summary judgment
or summary adjudication must introduce admissible evidence in order to shift
the burden of proof to the opposing party. 
There are two ways for the moving party to make out the necessary prima
facie case.  A party may present evidence
that – if uncontradicted – constitutes a preponderance of evidence that the
plaintiff cannot establish an essential element of its claim.  This approach, which requires offering
evidence that negates a key element of the defense, is known as the “tried and
true” approach.  See, e.g., Kids’
Universe v. In2Labs (2002) 95 Cal.App.4th 870, 879.  
 
Alternatively, a defendant may
present circumstantial evidence that the plaintiff does not now possess and
cannot reasonably obtain the evidence needed to establish one or more elements
of a defense.  This is known as the “no
evidence” approach and is described in Aguilar v, Atlantic Richfield Company
(2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, at 854.   A party
making a “no evidence” motion must introduce admissible evidence (by
declaration or otherwise) that, in response to the full panoply of discovery
devices (request for production, interrogatories, depositions etc.), the
opposing party has produced factually devoid responses sufficient to support an
inference that the party cannot make out a prima facie case on an element of
its defense.  In addition, a party making
a “no evidence” motion must also establish that, by the time the case comes up
for trial, the opposing party “cannot reasonably expect to obtain” the evidence
necessary to raise a triable issue of fact on the issue.  Schieding v. Dinwiddie Construction Company (1999)
69 Cal.App. 4th 64, 83.
 
c.     Initial
Notes 
The hearing on this motion was
originally scheduled for 10/31/24.  Reply
documents were due five days prior to the hearing, on 10/26/24.  Transom did not file reply documents until
10/30/24.  Compounding the issue, Transom
filed a purported “motion to strike,” seeking to strike various aspects of the
opposition papers.  On 10/30/24, the
Court granted Transom’s ex parte application; the Court continued the hearing
on the summary judgment motion to 1/14/25 and also set a hearing on the motion
to strike for 1/14/25.
 
There is absolutely no authority
permitting a motion to strike to be directed to summary judgment opposition
papers.  Transom was, of course, welcome
to file evidentiary objections, which it also did.  Transom cites no grounds for striking any
portion of the opposition, and the motion to strike is summarily denied.
 
d.     Analysis
The crux of this motion is that
there is no evidence to support Conair’s position that Plaintiff was injured by
a Rusk product.  Transom raises issues
relating to the parties’ agreement and New York vs. California law, and also
asserts myriad evidentiary objections, even going so far as to seek to strike
portions of the opposition papers, as discussed above.  If, however, Transom fails to meet its burden
re: a Rusk product and/or Conair raises triable issues in this regard, the
remaining arguments are moot.
 
As noted above, when a party moves
for summary judgment, that party can meet its burden in one of two ways.  It can either introduce affirmative evidence
that an element of the challenged pleading is unfounded, or it can rely on the
opposing party’s factually devoid discovery responses.  In this case, if Transom wants to pursue the
first route, it must introduce affirmative evidence that a Rusk product was NOT
used on Plaintiff.  Transom failed to do
so.  
 
While not meaningfully discussed by
the parties, because Transom failed to introduce affirmative evidence that a
Rusk product was NOT used on Plaintiff, it falls on Transom to introduce
evidence that it propounded the “full panoply” of discovery on Conair and
Conair’s factually devoid discovery responses entitle it to judgment as a
matter of law.  Transom also did not do
this.  Instead, Transom cherry-picked
Plaintiff’s deposition testimony in an attempt to meet its moving burden.  This is insufficient for two reasons.  First, it does not constitute a showing that
Conair served factually devoid discovery responses, in response to the full
panoply of available discovery, as discussed above.  
 
Second, the testimony cited by the
parties, at a minimum, does not make the required showing that Conair cannot
show Plaintiff’s hair was treated with a Rusk product.  Defendant’s fact 19 purports to establish
that Plaintiff does not know what bleach/lightener or color products were used
on her hair.  The fact is supported by
Plaintiff’s deposition testimony, which is attached as Exhibit 16 to
Defendant’s appendix of exhibits (and authenticated by Defense Counsel’s
declaration).  Specifically, Defendant
contends various statements made at pages 234-243 of the deposition establish
this fact.  If the testimony is read in
context, however, it is basically that Plaintiff saw tubes of Rusk hair dye all
around her, but she did not specifically see the Rusk product being squeezed
into a bowl and then applied to her hair, because the stylist was standing
behind her when he prepared the dye.  
 
Notably, Plaintiff filed a “Notice
of Lodgment” with her opposition, pursuant to which she apparently “lodged” her
exhibits.  Plaintiff did not actually
file her exhibits.  The Court cannot
locate Plaintiff’s exhibits anywhere. 
Plaintiff does, however, quote a portion of her testimony, at page 30,
wherein she stated that Kevin Kirk, who was doing her hair, described the hair
product to her and told her it was Rusk hair dye, as well as pages 149-150,
wherein she testified that she saw a bottle with the Rusk name on it, which she
knows was ultimately used on her hair.  
 
Even if the portions of the
testimony stating what Kevin Kirk told Plaintiff are stricken as hearsay (per
Transom’s evidentiary objections), there remains sufficient evidence to defeat
summary judgment.  Plaintiff saw the box
and a reasonable juror could conclude, based on what she saw, that the product
was used.  Additionally, as discussed
above, when moving on the “no evidence” ground, the moving party must not only
show that the opposing party currently has no evidence, but also that it could
not obtain such evidence prior to trial. 
Pursuant to Aguilar, supra, at 856, the Court must determine if a
reasonable trier of fact could draw the inference Conair seeks to have
drawn.  If so, the motion must be
denied.  In this case, Plaintiff’s
testimony supports an inference that Rusk hair dye was used, such that the
motion must be denied.
 
e.     Evidentiary
Objections
To the extent Transom objects to
consideration of Plaintiff’s deposition testimony, cited above, the objections
are overruled.  All remaining objections
will not change the outcome of the ruling on the motion and the Court therefore
declines to rule on them.  CCP
§437c(q).  Conair submitted objections
with the opposition papers; a ruling on those objections would also not change
the ruling on the motion, and the Court declines to rule on them.  
 
f.      Alternative
Motion for Summary Adjudication
Transom also seeks summary
adjudication of each cause of action in Conair’s cross-complaint.  Transom does not meaningfully articulate any
ground for summary adjudication, separate and apart from its argument in
support of summary judgment.  The alternative
motion for summary adjudication is therefore also denied.
 
Transom is ordered to give
notice.  
 
Parties who intend to submit
on this tentative must send an email to the court at gdcdepts27@lacourt.org indicating intention to submit on the tentative
as directed by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  If a party submits on
the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must identify
the party submitting on the tentative.  If
the parties do not submit on the tentative, they should arrange to appear
remotely.