 Case Number:  22LBCV00569    Hearing Date:   January 14, 2025    Dept:  S27 The Court was originally scheduled
to hear Petitioner’s petition to approve compromise of a minor on
10/31/24.  The Court did not approve the
settlement and denied the petition without prejudice.  The Court rescheduled a hearing on an amended
petition for 12/10/24.  An amended
petition was due at least sixteen court days prior to the hearing.  Petitioner did not file a timely amended
petition.  The Court continued the
hearing on the petition to 1/14/25 and ordered Petitioner to file a petition at
least sixteen court days prior to the continued hearing.
 
Petitioner failed to do so.  The Court will continue the hearing on the
petition one final time.  The hearing on
the petition is continued to Thursday, 2/27/25 at 8:30 a.m. in Department
S27.  If Petitioner does not file a
timely (sixteen court days prior to the hearing) petition prior to the hearing,
the Court will dismiss the case.  The
ruling will be without prejudice to Petitioner’s right to file a petition to
approve compromise of a minor as a separate proceeding.  If Petitioner does so, Petitioner must file a
notice of related cases contemporaneously with the petition.  Petitioner must not have the petition heard
in another department without disclosing this department’s prior ruling on the
original petition.
 
Petitioner is ordered to give
notice.  
 
Parties who intend to submit
on this tentative must send an email to the court at gdcdepts27@lacourt.org indicating intention to submit on the tentative
as directed by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  If a party submits on
the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must identify
the party submitting on the tentative. If any party does not submit on the
tentative, the party should make arrangements to appear remotely at the hearing
on this matter.   