 Case Number:  24CHCV00899    Hearing Date:   September 18, 2024    Dept:  F51  SEPTEMBER 17,  2024    DEMURRER  Los Angeles Superior Court Case # 24CHCV00899    Demurrer filed: 5/10/24   MOVING PARTY: Plaintiff Arsen Titanyan (“Plaintiff”) RESPONDING PARTY: Defendant  David Safar (“Defendant”) NOTICE: OK    RELIEF REQUESTED: Plaintiff  demurs to Defendant’s entire answer.   TENTATIVE RULING: The demurrer is sustained with 20  days leave to amend.   BACKGROUND    This is a  premises liability action in which Plaintiff alleges that on 4/26/23, while he  was an invitee at Defendant’s house, he was injured when he slipped and fell on  the stars between the first and second steps. (Compl. p. 4.) On 3/19/24,  Plaintiff filed his complaint against Defendant, alleging the following causes  of action: (1) General Negligence; and (2) Premises Liability.    On 5/1/24,  Defendant filed his answer to Plaintiff’s complaint. On 5/10/24, Plaintiff  filed the instant demurrer against Defendant’s answer. On 9/5/24, Defendants  filed their opposition. No reply has been filed to date.   ANALYSIS   As a general matter, a party against whom an answer has  been filed may object to the answer by demurrer, on the basis of any single or  combination the following grounds: “(a) The answer does not state facts  sufficient to constitute a defense; (b) The answer is uncertain. As used in  this subdivision, ‘uncertain’ includes ambiguous and unintelligible; (c) Where  the answer pleads a contract, it cannot be ascertained from the answer whether  the contract is written or oral.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 430.20.)   Demurrers against answers are fairly uncommon, and the  determination of whether an answer states a defense is generally governed by  the same principles that apply in determining if a complaint states a cause of  action. (South Shore Land Co. v. Petersen (1965) 226 Cal.App.2d 725,  732.) In a demurrer proceeding, the defects must be apparent on the face of the  pleading or via proper judicial notice.¿(Donabedian v. Mercury Ins. Co.  (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994.)   “A demurrer tests the pleading alone, and not the evidence  or facts alleged.” (E-Fab, Inc. v. Accountants, Inc. Servs. (2007) 153  Cal.App.4th 1308, 1315.) The sufficiency of the answer requires an examination  of the complaint because the adequacy of the answer must be determined in  reference to the complaint it purports to answer. (Timberidge Enterprises,  Inc. v. City of Santa Rosa (1978) 86 Cal.App.3d 873, 880.)   A.    Meet-and-Confer   Before filing its demurrer, “the demurring party shall meet  and confer in person or by telephone with the party who filed the pleading that  is subject to demurrer for the purpose of determining whether an agreement can  be reached that would resolve the objections to be raised in the demurrer.”  (Code Civ. Proc. § 430.41, subd. (a).) The demurring party must file and  serve a meet and confer declaration stating either: “(A) The means by which the  demurring party met and conferred with the party who filed the pleading subject  to demurrer, and that the parties did not reach an agreement resolving the  objections raised in the demurrer;” or “(B) That the party who filed the  pleading subject to demurrer failed to respond to the meet and confer request  of the demurring party or otherwise failed to meet and confer in good faith.” (Id.  at subd. (a)(3).)   Here, Plaintiff’s counsel declares that on 5/1/24 and  5/6/24, he sent Defendant’s counsel meet and confer letters attempting to discuss  the issues raised in the instant demurrer, but the parties were unable to  informally resolve the dispute. (Decl. of Ruben Vardanyan, ¶¶ 2–5.) Accordingly,  the Court finds that counsel has satisfied the preliminary meet and confer  requirements set forth under Code of Civil Procedure section 430.41,  subdivision (a).   B.      Factual Sufficiency   “An  important difference is that in the case of a demurrer to the answer, as  distinguished from a demurrer to the complaint, the defect in question need not  appear on the face of the answer. The determination of the sufficiency of the  answer requires an examination of the complaint because its adequacy is with  reference to the complaint it purports to answer. … This requirement, however,  does not mean that the allegations of the complaint, if denied, are to be taken  as true, the rule being that the demurrer to the answer admits all issuable  facts pleaded therein and eliminates all allegations of the complaint denied by  the answer.” (South Shore Land Co., 226 Cal.App.2d at 733.)   Here, Plaintiff  demurs to each of Defendant’s affirmative defenses in his answer, on the basis that  Defendant fails¿to allege facts sufficient to state a defense. Plaintiff argues  that the Court should sustain the demurrer and “strike all defenses because  they fail to state facts sufficient to constitute a defense and are, therefore,  ambiguous and uncertain.” (Dem. 4:27–28.) “Plaintiff should not be forced to  guess which defenses apply to which causes of action, the facts supporting  those defenses, and conduct lengthy discovery into meritless defenses.” (Id.  at 4:21–23.)   In  opposition, Defendant argues that “Defendant is allowed to reference the  complaint itself as to the facts in order to establish the affirmative defense.  Defendant is not required to plead the same facts as that in the complaint.” (Def.’s  Opp. 4:12–14, citing South Shore Land Co., 226  Cal.App.2d 725.) Defendant further contends that “Defendant’s Answer to  Plaintiff’s Unverified Complaint, states sufficient facts in support of  Defendant’s affirmative defenses, and refers back to Plaintiff’s Unverified  Complaint, referencing all causes of action with language sufficient to assert  the affirmative defenses to Plaintiff’s Unverified Compliant.” (Id. at 5:18–22.)   However,  upon review of Defendant’s answer, the Court notes that Defendant makes no  incorporation by reference to the factual allegations in Plaintiff’s complaint.  To the contrary, “Defendant denies each, every and all of the allegations of  said Complaint, and the whole thereof, and denies Plaintiff has sustained  damages in any sum or sums alleged, or in any other sum or at all.” (Answer  1:19–21.) Therefore, under South Shore Land Co., Defendant effectively  eliminated Plaintiff’s factual allegations as stated in his complaint, and  fails to allege any additional facts in his answer, besides an allegation that  “at the time of the accident described in the complaint, plaintiff was in the  course and scope of his/her employment with this answering defendant.” (Answer  3:19–21.)   Based on  the foregoing, the Court finds that Defendant has failed to state facts  sufficient to constitute the defenses asserted in his answer. Accordingly, the  demurrer is sustained.   C.     Leave to Amend   Where a  demurrer is sustained, leave to amend must be allowed where there is a  reasonable possibility of successful amendment. (Goodman v. Kennedy  (1976) 18 Cal.3d 335, 348.) The burden is on the opposing party to show the  court that a pleading can be amended successfully. (Id.; Lewis v. YouTube,  LLC (2015) 244 Cal.App.4th 118, 226.)   Here, under  the Court’s liberal policy of granting leave to amend, Defendant is granted 20  days leave to amend the answer to cure the defects set forth above.   CONCLUSION    The demurrer is sustained with 20 days leave to amend.   The Court is not requesting oral argument on  this matter.  Pursuant to California Rules of Court, Rule 3.1308(a)(1)  notice of intent to appear is required.  Unless the Court directs argument  in the Tentative Ruling, no argument will be permitted unless a “party notifies  all other parties and the court by 4:00 p.m. on the court day before the  hearing of the party’s intention to appear and argue.  “The tentative  ruling will become the ruling of the court if no notice of intent to appear is received.”         Notice may be given either by email at CHAdeptF51@LACourt.org or by  telephone at (818) 407-2233.  