 Case Number:  23STCV11632    Hearing Date:   November 13, 2024    Dept:  17 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
 
DEPARTMENT
17
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 



HYUN SOON LEE 
 
        
  vs.
 
FOUAD ASHOUR
 


 Case
  No.:  23STCV11632  
 
 
 
 Hearing Date: November 13, 2024



 
 
Plaintiff’s
motion to set aside is DENIED, WITHOUT PREJUDICE. 
 
On 5/23/2023,
Plaintiff Hyun Soon Lee (Plaintiff) filed suit against Fouad Ashour and Ashour
Victory Property, LLC, alleging: (1) breach of contract; (2) breach of implied
covenant of good faith and fair dealing; (3) negligence; (4) unjust enrichment;
and (5) fraud and misrepresentation.
 
On 7/8/2024,
the Court granted Defendant’s motion for an OSC re: Contempt and ordered
Plaintiff’s Complaint dismissed without prejudice. 
 
On 9/25/2024,
Plaintiff moved to set aside the dismissal. 
 
Discussion 
 
            Plaintiff
moves to set aside the dismissal entered on 7/8/2024, on the grounds that she
was not aware of the status of her case because
Plaintiff was assisted by an unauthorized and unlawful legal document assistant
named Bill Kim from Good People Associated, Inc.
 
            More specifically, Plaintiff submitted a declaration
stating that she paid $13,000 to Mr. Kim and Good People Associated, Inc. to
represent her in this case. (Plaintiff Decl. ¶ 5.) Plaintiff contends that Mr.
Kim misrepresented to her that he could represent her in this case, despite
that Good People Associated, Inc. is not a law firm. (Id. ¶ 5.)
Plaintiff contends that she wasn’t informed about the status of the case since
it begun. (Id. ¶ 6.) It wasn’t until Plaintiff hired Kevin H. Jang as
counsel on 9/6/2024 that Plaintiff discovered her case had been dismissed. ((Id.
¶ 7.) 
 
            However, in opposition, Defendant notes that Plaintiff
personally attended the 3/20/2024 hearing where sanctions were ordered, and a
Notice of Ruling was served on Plaintiff Lee on 3/26/2024. 
 
Moreover, Section
473(b) provides:
 
The court
may, upon any terms as may be just, relieve a party or his or her legal
representative from a judgment, dismissal, order, or other proceeding taken
against him or her through his or her mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or
excusable neglect. Application for this relief shall be accompanied by a copy
of the answer or other pleading proposed to be filed therein, otherwise the
application shall not be granted, and shall be made within a reasonable time,
in no case exceeding six months, after the judgment, dismissal, order, or
proceeding was taken. . . 
 
            As such, section 473(b) requires that the motion to set
aside be accompanied by a proposed pleading, i.e., whatever missing
documentation resulted in the dismissal. Here, the Court granted a motion to compel
discovery responses on 3/20/2024, and dismissal was the result of Plaintiff’s
failure to provide responses or issue sanctions payment. As such, Plaintiff was
required to accompany this motion with proposed responses to outstanding
discovery as well as sanctions payment. The failure to include this is fatal to
her request here.
 
            Based on the foregoing, Plaintiff’s motion to set aside
is denied, without prejudice. 
 
 
It is so ordered. 
 
Dated:  November   
, 2024
                                                                                                                                                           
   Hon. Jon R.
Takasugi
   Judge of the
Superior Court
 
 
 
Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must
send an email to the court at smcdept17@lacourt.org
by 4 p.m. the day prior as directed by the instructions provided on the court
website at www.lacourt.org.  If a party submits
on the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must
identify the party submitting on the tentative. 
If all parties to a motion submit, the court will adopt this
tentative as the final order.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  For more information, please contact the court clerk at (213)
633-0517.  
 
 
 
 