  Case Number:  23STCV01009    Hearing Date:   November 13, 2024    Dept:  17 Superior Court of California
County of Los
Angeles
 
DEPARTMENT 17
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 



LUDELLA LEONARD 
 
  
        
  vs.
 
856 W 42ND PLACE, LLC, et al.
  
  


 Case
  No.:  23STCV01009 
 
 
 
 Hearing Date:  November 13, 2024




 
 
Movant’s motion to be
appointed successor in interest to the deceased Plaintiff is DENIED, WITHOUT
PREJUDICE. 
 
            On 1/17/2023, Plaintiff Ludella Leonard (Plaintiff) filed
suit against 856 W. 42nd Place, LLC and Brent Hogan (collectively,
Defendants), alleging: (1) wrongful eviction; (2) conversion; (3) negligence;
(4) violation of CCP section 789.3; (5) violation of Civil Code section 789.3;
(6) elder abuse (isolation); (7) elder abuse (isolation); (8) elder abuse
(financial abuse); and (9) elder abuse (financial abuse).
 
            On 10/7/2024, Delphine Leonard (Movant) moved for an
order appointing her as successor in interest for deceased Plaintiff. 
 
Discussion 
 
            Movant contends that she should be appointed as successor
in interest for deceased Plaintiff because Ludella Leonard died intestate, and
no other person has a superior right to commence the action or proceeding or to
be substituted for the decedent in the pending action or proceeding. Moreover,
no proceeding is now pending in California for administration of the Decedent's
estate, and she succeeds Decedent Ludella Leonard’s interest in the action or
proceeding (as defined in California Code of Civil Procedure § 377.11).
 
            However, in opposition, Defendants indicate that Movant’s
motion is procedurally and substantively defective. 
 
            As for procedural defects, CCP section 377.32 requires
that a successor-in-interest’s motion be accompanied by a declaration setting
forth facts in support of a finding that she is successor in interest. Here,
Movant’s motion sets forth facts concerning the decedent’s information, and the
procedural history of the administration of her estate, but does not set forth
actual facts which could show that she is the successor in interest and
that her interest is superior to all others. 
 
            As for substantive defects, CCP. section 337.11 defines “successor
in interest” as “the beneficiary of the decedent's estate or other successor in
interest who succeeds to a cause of action or to a particular item of the
property that is the subject of a cause of action.” Where, as here, the
decedent died without leaving a will, CCP section 337.10, subdivision (b), in
turn defines “beneficiary of the decedent's estate,” in pertinent part, as “the
sole person or all of the persons who succeed to a cause of action, or to a
particular item of property that is the subject of a cause of action” (emphasis
added).
 
Here,
Movant Delphine has two siblings, Harold and Duane Leonard. Movant has not
shown why her interest, as niece of Ludella, would be superior to that of her
brothers, who were nephews of Ludella. Movant must show why they are not also
needed as successors in interest pursuant to CCP section 337.10, subdivision
(b). 
 
Notably,
while Movant’s motion was served on Defendants’ counsel, it apparently was not
served on Ludella’s nephews or other family members. Accordingly, no other
family member was given an opportunity to oppose Delphine’s contentions, or to
show that they have an equal interest to that of Movant. 
 
            Based on the foregoing, Movant’s motion to be appointed
successor in interest to the deceased Plaintiff is denied, without prejudice. 
 
 
It is so ordered. 
 
Dated:  November   
, 2024
                                                                                                                                                           
   Hon. Jon R.
Takasugi
   Judge of the
Superior Court
 
 
 
Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must
send an email to the court at smcdept17@lacourt.org
by 4 p.m. the day prior as directed by the instructions provided on the court
website at www.lacourt.org.  If a party submits
on the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must
identify the party submitting on the tentative. 
If all parties to a motion submit, the court will adopt this
tentative as the final order.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  For more information, please contact the court clerk at (213)
633-0517.  
 