 Case Number:  23STCV02085    Hearing Date:   November 13, 2024    Dept:  17 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
 
DEPARTMENT
17
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 



SEBASTIAN DONOVAN, et al
 
  
        
  vs.
 
QUANTGENE, INC.,
  et al.
 


 Case
  No.:  23STCV02085 
 
 
 
 Hearing Date:  November 13, 2024




QUANTGENE, INC., et al.
 
            vs.
 
SEBASTIAN DONOVAN, et al.










 
 
 

Plaintiffs’
motion to compel is MOOT. The Court declines to award sanctions at this time.
 
On 1/31/2023,
Plaintiffs Sebastian Donovan and Arconex (collectively, Plaintiffs) filed suit
against Quantgene, Inc. and Johannes Bhakdi (collectively, Defendants),
alleging: (1) breach of contract; (2) breach of implied covenant of good faith
and fair dealing; (3) unjust enrichment; (4) intentional misrepresentation; (5)
negligent misrepresentation; and (6) violation of Business and Professions Code
section 17200.
 
            On
3/3/2023, Cross-Complainants Quantgene, Inc. and Johannes Bhakdi filed a
cross-complaint (XC) against Cross-Defendants Sebastian Donovan and Arconex,
alleging: (1) breach of contract; (2) breach of implied covenant of good faith
and fair dealing; (3) false promise; (4) intentional misrepresentation; (5)
concealment; (6) negligent misrepresentation; (7) conversion; (8) unjust
enrichment; (9) intentional interference with contractual relations; and (10)
unfair business practices. 
 
            On
9/26/2024, Plaintiffs moved to compel production of materials improperly
withheld as privileged, and requested monetary sanctions in connection with the
motion.
 
Discussion 
 
            Plaintiffs
argue that Defendants have improperly withheld two categories of documents on
the alleged basis of attorney-client privilege: (1) Defendants withheld
communications that include an adverse third party, which defeats any claim of
privilege notwithstanding the presence of lawyers on the emails; and (2)
Defendants withheld communications with Harry Nelson, an individual who is both
a lawyer and a shareholder in Quantgene, which involve Mr. Nelson’s attempt to
broker a resolution of the dispute between the parties prior to the filing of
this litigation.
 
            In
opposition, Defendants represent that upon the filing of Plaintiffs’ motion,
they immediately addressed the issues raised. More specifically, Defendants
contend that they immediately produced 4 JAMS arbitration documents which
involved Quantgene and a former employee. Because they were directed to JAMs,
Defendants’ counsel agreed that they were not privileged. 
 
Defendants
also contend that they immediately addressed the issue over Harry Nelson’s emails
with Johannes Bhakdi. More specifically:
 
Defendants’
counsel reviewed each of the privilege log items that Plaintiffs identified and
substantively addressed them in an email with Plaintiff’s counsel later that
same day the Motion was filed. (Woo Decl., ¶ 9, Ex. B, 9/26/24, 7:44 p.m.
email). Based on that review and summary of the issues, Defendants agreed to
produce, and the next day, produced (1) a single email where it appeared Mr.
Bhakdi was communicating with Mr. Nelson as an intermediary to pass along a
message to Mr. Donovan, (3) three emails where the content was merely setting
up conference calls between Mr. Bhakdi, Mr. Weiss and Mr. Nelson (which were
produced on the agreement that they did not constitute a waiver of the
privilege), and (3) an email from Mr. Nelson forwarding to Mr. Bhakdi a demand
letter from Plaintiffs’ counsel sent to Mr. Nelson in December 2022 (this
particular email was not even on Plaintiff’s identified list of items requested
to be produced, but was reviewed as part of double checking every logged entry
in this general time frame where Mr. Bhakdi and Mr. Nelson communicated). (Woo
Decl., Ex. B - 9/26/24, 7:44 p.m. email).
 
As to the
specific Harry Nelson items identified by Plaintiffs for which Defendants
maintained the original assertion of privilege and did not produce the
communication, gave specific reasons for each item (see Woo Decl., Ex. B -
9/26/24, 7:44 p.m. email), noted that Quantgene’s in-house counsel Mr. Weiss
was involved in providing substantive responses to inquiries from Mr. Bhakdi,
and asserted that the inclusion of Mr. Nelson did not waive the privilege.
Defendants also maintained the privilege over invoices which detailed legal
advice and work product performed by the Nelson Hardiman firm for Quantgene.
(Woo Decl., Ex. C - 9/27/24, 4:12 p.m. email).
 
(Opp., 8:
1-22.)
 
After review,
the Court is persuaded that Plaintiffs’ motion is now substantively moot.
Moreover, meet-and-confer was inadequate here, and it appears the discovery
issues could have been resolved informally without motion practice.
Accordingly, the Court declines to award sanctions at this time. 
 
Based on the
foregoing, Plaintiffs’ motion to compel is moot. The Court declines to award
sanctions at this time.
 
It is so ordered. 
 
Dated:  November   
, 2024
                                                                                                                                                           
   Hon. Jon R.
Takasugi
   Judge of the
Superior Court
 
 
 
Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must
send an email to the court at smcdept17@lacourt.org
by 4 p.m. the day prior as directed by the instructions provided on the court
website at www.lacourt.org.  If a party submits
on the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must
identify the party submitting on the tentative. 
If all parties to a motion submit, the court will adopt this
tentative as the final order.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  For more information, please contact the court clerk at (213)
633-0517.  
 
 
 