  Case Number:  23STCV07896    Hearing Date:   August 7, 2024    Dept:  55 NATURE OF PROCEEDINGS: Demurrers filed by Defendants
Capital Benefit, Inc., Marcel Bruetsch, and Mural Media.
Background
The Court continued the hearing on the demurrers filed
by Defendants Marcel Bruetsch and Capital Benefit, Inc. (“Marcel/Capital
Benefit”) and Mural Media, LLC 401k Plain (“Mural Media”) to enable the parties
to file supplemental briefing on certain claims in Plaintiff Linda Maultsby’s (“Plaintiff”)
Third Amended Complaint (“TAC”). Plaintiff did not file the TAC, though she did
lodge it on 6/4/2024. There is no indication that she ever served even the
lodged TAC on the defendants. Nevertheless, the Court considers the parties’ additional
briefing filed after 6/4/2024 and Plaintiff’s lodged TAC. The claims and
arguments at issue in this tentative are as follows: (1) Mural Media’s demurrer
to the quiet title claim; (2) Marcel/Capital Benefit’s demurrer to the fraud claim;
and (3) Capital Benefit’s demurrer to the breach of contract claim. 
Analysis
Mural Media- quiet title claim
Mural Media contends that the quiet title claim
against it fails because (1) Plaintiff does not allege compliance with the
tender rule, (2) she cannot use a quiet title claim to challenge the validity
of foreclosure proceedings, and (3) arguments about Mural Media’s legal status
do not save Plaintiff’s claim.
The Court agrees with Mural Media that Plaintiff’s TAC
does not cure the above listed deficiencies with the quiet title claim. The TAC
does not plead compliance with the tender rule and Plaintiff’s failure to comply
with the rule precludes this claim. The Court disagrees with Plaintiff that an
equitable exception to the tender rule applies because, contrary to her claim,
the TAC does not challenge the validity of the debt on the property. The Court
also concludes Mural Media’s other arguments against the quiet title claim, as
set forth in the initial demurrer briefing and supplemental briefing, have
merit. The Court therefore sustains the demurrer to this claim without leave to
amend. 
Marcel/Capital Benefit- fraud claim and Capital
Benefit- breach of contract
As explained by the Court in its 6/4/2024 order, the
fraud claim in the TAC was directed to Marcel/Capital Benefit. Marcel/Capital
Benefit previously argued that this claim fails to allege the specific details
required for a fraud claim against it. The Court permitted further briefing on this
claim but only Marcel/Capital Benefit filed an additional brief, in which they
reiterate that the TAC contains only conclusory allegations. The Court agrees
that none of the elements of a fraud claim are pled with the requisite specificity.
The TAC alleges that Capital made various alleged representations to Plaintiff but fails to allege how, when, where, and by what means the representations
were tendered, or alternatively, facts indicating that Marcel/Capital Benefit
necessarily already know such information. Moreover, Plaintiff has
not opposed the demurrer. The Court therefore sustains Marcel/Capital Benefit’s
demurrer to the fraud claim without leave to amend. 
The breach of contract claim in the TAC refers to Capital
Benefit. The Court therefore permitted further briefing on this claim. Only Capital
Benefit has provided additional briefing, in which it contends that the conclusory
allegation that Capital Benefit has an agreement with Maultsby is insufficient
to allege a contract claim. The Court agrees. The TAC alludes to various
alleged duties that Capital Benefit owed to Plaintiff, but neglects to allege
any contract provision of any alleged contract that Capital Benefit purportedly
breached. This is insufficient to state a claim. The demurrer to the contract
claim is also sustained without leave to amend  
Negligence claimMarcel/Capital Benefit also contends that the TAC
fails to allege a negligence claim against them. They did not, however, demur
to the negligence claim when they filed the initial demurrer to the SAC. To the
extent they now wish to demur to this claim in the TAC, the Court will consider
their reply brief as the opening brief on this issue. Plaintiff shall have an
opportunity to file a brief regarding the negligence claim against these
defendants, and the Court will set another hearing to consider those arguments.ConclusionMural Media's demurrer to the quiet title claim in the TAC is sustained without leave to amend. Marcel/Capital Benefit's demurrer to the fraud and breach of contract claims are sustained without leave to amend. The Court will set a hearing on Marcel/Capital Benefit's demurrer to the negligence claim in the TAC. 