 Case Number:  23STCV26575    Hearing Date:   July 8, 2024    Dept:  56  
 
 
SUPERIOR
COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR
THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



KASANDRA MACIAS,
  
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
 
DO & CO LOS ANGELES, INC., ET AL., 
                                                                             
  
                        Defendants.                               


 


     
  CASE NO.:  23STCV26575
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER RE: 
MOTION TO COMPEL ARBITRATION OF
  PLAINTIFF’S INDIVIDUAL PAGA CLAIMS AND STAY PLAINTIFF’S REPRESENTATIVE PAGA
  CLAIM
 
Date: July 8, 2024
Time: 8:30 a.m.
Dept. 56
 
 



 
MOVING PARTY: Defendant
Express Services, Inc. (“Express”)
 
RESPONDING PARTY: Plaintiff
Kasandra Macias (“Plaintiff”)
 
            The Court has considered the moving,
opposition, and reply papers. 
 
BACKGROUND
             On October 30, 2023, Plaintiff filed the
instant complaint (the “Complaint”) seeking civil penalties under the Private
Attorneys General Act of 2024, Cal. Lab. Code, § 2698, et seq. (“PAGA”),
individually and on behalf of similarly aggrieved employees, against Defendants
DO & CO Los Angeles, Inc. (“DCLA”) and Express (collectively, “Defendants”),
for alleged violations of the California Labor Code.    
 
            On April 19, 2024, Express filed a
Motion to Compel Arbitration of Plaintiff’s Individual PAGA Claim and Stay
Plaintiff’s Representative PAGA Claim (the “Motion”).  Plaintiff filed an opposition to the Motion
on June 24, 2024, and Express filed a reply on June 28, 2024.
            
EVIDENTIARY OBJECTIONS
             Plaintiff’s objections to the Declaration of
Harvey H.H. Homsey in Support of Express’ Motion are OVERRULED.
 
DISCUSSION
Standard 
“California law reflects a strong public policy in
favor of arbitration as a relatively quick and inexpensive method for resolving
disputes.  To further that policy,
section 1281.2 requires a trial court to enforce a written arbitration
agreement unless one of three limited exceptions applies.  Those statutory exceptions arise where (1) a
party waives the right to arbitration; (2) grounds exist for revoking the
arbitration agreement; and (3) pending litigation with a third party creates
the possibility of conflicting rulings on common factual or legal issues.”  (Acquire II, Ltd. v. Colton Real Estate
Group (2013) 213 Cal.App.4th 959, 967; Code Civ. Proc., § 1281.2.)  Similarly, “under the FAA, the strong federal
policy favoring arbitration agreements requires courts to resolve any doubts
concerning arbitrability in favor of arbitration.”  (Valencia v. Smyth (2010) 185
Cal.App.4th 153, 176 (internal quotations omitted).)  
 
In deciding a petition to compel arbitration, trial
courts must decide first whether an enforceable arbitration agreement exists
between the parties, and then determine the second gateway issue whether the
claims are covered within the scope of the agreement.  (Omar v. Ralphs Grocery Co. (2004) 118
Cal.App.4th 955, 961.)  The opposing
party has the burden to establish any defense to enforcement.  (Gatton v. T-Mobile USA, Inc. (2007)
152 Cal.App.4th 571, 579 [“The petitioner, T–Mobile here, bears the burden of
proving the existence of a valid arbitration agreement and the opposing party,
plaintiffs here, bears the burden of proving any fact necessary to its
defense.”].)  
 
Procedurally, a petition to compel arbitration or
stay proceedings must state verbatim the provisions providing for arbitration,
or must have a copy of them attached. 
(Cal. R. Ct., rule 3.1330.)  
 
Arbitration Agreement at Issue
“With respect to the moving party’s burden to
provide evidence of the existence of an agreement to arbitrate, it is generally
sufficient for that party to present a copy of the contract to the court.”  (Baker v. Italian Maple Holdings, LLC
(2017) 13 Cal.App.5th 1152, 1160.)
 
Express provides a copy of the Mutual Arbitration Agreement
(the “MAA”) that was electronically executed and signed by Plaintiff on April
22, 2022, when Plaintiff was hired as an associate.  (Declaration of Harvey H.H. Homsey in Support
of Express’ Motion (“Homsey Decl.”), ¶¶ 6-7, Exh. B.)  The MAA provides, in relevant part:
 
“Except as provided below, both the Company and
Individual (on behalf of himself/herself as well as his/her heirs, spouse,
successors, assigns, and agents) agree all legal disputes and claims between
them shall be determined exclusively by final and binding arbitration before a
single, neutral arbitrator as described in this Agreement. Except as provided
below, claims subject to this Agreement include without limitation all claims
pertaining to Individual’s employment or other relationship with the Company
(including application for or termination of employment or other relationship)
and all claims for discrimination, harassment, or retaliation; wages, overtime,
benefits, or other compensation; breach of any express or implied contract;
violation of public policy; negligence or other tort claims including without
limitation defamation, fraud, and infliction of emotional distress; and
violation of any federal, state, or local law, statute, regulation, or
ordinance. Except as provided below, Individual and the Company voluntarily
waive all rights to trial in court before a judge or jury on all claims covered
by this Agreement…”
 
(Homsey Decl., Exh. B, ¶ 1.)
 
Express adequately demonstrates that Plaintiff
accepted the terms of the offer during Express’ hiring and onboarding process,
and that the electronic record or electronic signature is attributable to
Plaintiff.  (Homsey Decl., ¶¶ 4-7; Cal.
Civ. Code, § 1633.9 [“(a) An electronic record or electronic signature is
attributable to a person if it was the act of the person. The act of the person
may be shown in any manner, including a showing of the efficacy of any security
procedure applied to determine the person to which the electronic record or
electronic signature was attributable.”].) 
In her opposition, Plaintiff does not dispute that she entered into an
arbitration agreement by electronically signing the MAA.  Rather, Plaintiff merely contends that the
MAA is unenforceable due to its unconscionability.  Thus, the Court finds Express met its burden
to demonstrate the existence of an arbitration agreement.
 
The court also finds that the Plaintiff’s claims are
covered within the scope of the MAA.  The
claims in the Complaint stem from her employment and Defendants’ alleged
violations of state labor laws.  (Compl.
¶ 14 [“Throughout Plaintiff’s employment, Defendants committed numerous labor
code violations under state law.]; Homsey Decl., Exh. B, ¶ 1 [“claims subject
to this Agreement include without limitation all claims pertaining to
Individual’s employment or other relationship with the Company… and violation
of any federal, state, or local law…”].)
 
The Arbitration Agreement Does Not Violate
Armendariz
To be enforceable, an arbitration agreement in an
employment contract must comply with the requirements of Armendariz v.
Foundation Health Psychcare Services, Inc. (2000) 24 Cal.4th 83.  The Armendariz requirements are that:
“(1) the arbitration agreement may not limit the damages normally available
under the statute; (2) there must be discovery sufficient to adequately
arbitrate their statutory claim; (3) there must be a written arbitration
decision and judicial review sufficient to ensure the arbitrators comply with
the requirements of the statute; and (4) the employer must pay all types of
costs that are unique to arbitration.”  (Little
v. Auto Stiegler, Inc. (2003) 29 Cal.4th 1064, 1076.)  
 
Here, the MAA does not limit the damages available
to Plaintiff, does not limit discovery, requires a written award, and requires
the employer to pay all costs unique to arbitration.  (Homsey Decl., Exh. B, ¶¶ 6, 8.)  The MAA complies with the requirements of Armendariz.

 
Unconscionability 
Plaintiff argues that the agreement is unenforceable
as unconscionable. 
 
Regardless of the claim asserted, arbitration
agreements are only enforceable if they are not unconscionable.  (Armendariz, supra, 24 Cal.4th at 113; Baxter
v. Genworth N. Am. Corp., (2017) 16 Cal.App.5th 713, 721.) “Both procedural
and substantive unconscionability must be present for a court to refuse to
enforce a contract, although they need not be present in the same degree.”  (Baxter, supra, 16 Cal.App.5th at 721
(citing Baltazar v. Forever 21, Inc. (2016) 62 Cal.4th 1237, 1243.)  Procedural unconscionability focuses on (1)
“oppression” resulting from unequal bargaining power that adheres the weaker
party to nonnegotiable terms and (2) “surprise” involving “the extent to which
the supposedly agreed-upon terms are hidden in a prolix printed form drafted by
the party seeking to enforce them.”  (Flores
v. Transamerica HomeFirst, Inc., (2001) 93 Cal.App.4th 846, 853.)  Substantive unconscionability “focuses on
overly harsh or one-sided results [that lack substantial justification].” (Baxter,
supra, 16 Cal.App.5th at 724; Armendariz, supra, 24 Cal.4th at
117-18.) 
 
Procedural Unconscionability
As initial matter, the Court notes that far from
being a hidden arbitration provision, the MAA is a standalone two-page document
entitled “Mutual Arbitration Agreement,” highlighting for Plaintiff that she
was signing an arbitration agreement and that by signing the Agreement,
Plaintiff agreed to arbitrate all arbitrable claims.  (Homsey Decl., Exh. B.)  Plaintiff’s sole argument regarding procedural
unconscionability is that the arbitration agreement is a contract of adhesion
as a mandatory condition of employment.  A mandatory arbitration agreement in the
employment context establishes a small degree of procedural
unconscionability.  (Armendariz, supra,
24 Cal.4th at 113 (“The term [contract of adhesion] signifies a standardized
contract, which, imposed and drafted by the party of superior bargaining
strength, relegates to the subscribing party only the opportunity to adhere to
the contract or reject it.”); Serpa v. California Surety Investigations,
Inc. (2013) 215 Cal.App.4th 695, 704 (“It is well settled that adhesion
contracts in the employment context, that is, those contracts offered to
employees on a take-it-or-leave-it basis, typically contain some aspects of
procedural unconscionability.) 
Plaintiff’s opposition does not establish any other basis for finding the
agreement procedurally unconscionable.  
 
Accordingly, Plaintiff has demonstrated minimal
procedural unconscionability and must “make a strong showing of substantive
unconscionability to render the arbitration provision unenforceable.”  (Gatton, supra, 152 Cal.App.4th at
586.)
 
Substantive Unconscionability 
Plaintiff contends that the MAA is substantively
unconscionable mainly due to its overbroad scope, unlimited duration and lack
of mutuality.
 
Foremost, the Court finds that the MAA between
Plaintiff and Defendants is mutual as it binds both parties to arbitrate
any controversy arising out of Plaintiff’s employment, and that both parties
waive all rights to trial in court before a judge or jury on all claims covered
by the MAA.  (Homsey Decl., Exh. B, ¶ 1; Baltazar,
supra, 62 Cal.4th at 1248 (“Baltazar argues that the arbitration agreement
at issue is unfairly one-sided because it lists only employee claims as
examples of the types of claims that are subject to arbitration. . . . We disagree.
The arbitration agreement at issue here makes clear that the parties mutually
agree to arbitrate all employment-related claims”).) Similarly, here, the
agreement is mutual, and Plaintiff’s argument does not establish substantive
unconscionability.
 
The Court also notes that the scope of the MAA is
explicitly limited to claims “pertaining to [Plaintiff’s] employment or other
relationship” with Express. (Homsey Decl., Exh. B, ¶ 1.) Plaintiff’s only
relationship with Express is as an employee or applicant; as such, this proviso
does not contribute to substantive unconscionability.  Additionally, the MAA covers claims arising
from Plaintiff’s employment.  Thus, notwithstanding
the provision that the MAA remains in effect even after termination of
Plaintiff’s employment, the MAA will last only until the statute of limitations
on Plaintiff’s potential employment-based claims has lapsed, and is not
infinite in duration as Plaintiff suggests.
 
Plaintiff further argues that the MAA is
substantively unconscionable due to the inclusion of non-arbitrable claims,
lack of provision for judicial review, inclusion of pre-dispute jury waiver,
and improper imposition of stay.  These
arguments lack merit.  Regarding the
agreement to stay any claim in court while the arbitrable claims undergo
arbitration, it is well within the Court’s power to do so as contemplated by
both courts and the Legislature, and thus does not contribute to
unconscionability.  (Cal. Civ. Proc., §
1281.4; Adolph v. Uber Technologies, Inc., 14 Cal.5th 1104, 1123-24
(2023).  
 
The lack of provision expressly allowing for
judicial review does not equate to the MAA barring any judicial review, and
thus does not render the MAA unconscionable. 
Plaintiff cites no authority requiring arbitration agreements to
expressly provide for judicial review.  
 
Plaintiff also points to the failure to exclude
sexual harassment and assault claims among the covered claims, which goes
against the Labor Code section 432.6 and the Federal Ending Forced Arbitration
of Sexual Assault and Harassment Act of 2021, which prohibit the compelled
arbitration of such claims.  Suffice it
to state that Plaintiff is not alleging any of these claims that she contends
are exempt from arbitration.  
 
Regarding the contention that the MAA contains an
unlawful pre-dispute jury waiver, the MAA provides that jury trial will be
waived “to the maximum extent permitted by law.” (Homsey Decl., Exh. B, ¶ 9.)  Thus, the MAA contemplates that this waiver
will not be allowed if it is not permitted by law. Thus, Plaintiff has failed
to demonstrate any substantive unconscionability.
 
Accordingly, the Court finds Plaintiff failed to
meet her burden of establishing that the arbitration provisions are
unenforceable as unconscionable.
 
Finally, since the MAA itself specified that it
included claims against Express’ alleged joint or co-employer (such as DCLA
in this case), Plaintiff’s claims against DCLA are likewise subject to
arbitration.  (Fuentes v. TMCSF, Inc.,
26 Cal. App. 5th 541, 549 (2018). (“The arbitration clause itself specified the
entities to which it applied.”)
 
RULING
            The Motion is GRANTED.  Plaintiff’s individual PAGA claim is hereby
compelled to arbitration, and Plaintiff’s representative PAGA claim is stayed
pending completion of arbitration.  The
Court sets a Status Conference for January 6, 2025, regarding the status of
arbitration.  
 
            Moving Party is ordered to give
notice of this ruling.            
 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at SMC_DEPT56@lacourt.org as directed
by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department does not receive an email
and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion will be placed off
calendar.
 
Dated this 8th day of July 2024
 




 


 




 


Hon. Holly J.
  Fujie
Judge of the
  Superior Court
 




 