  Case Number:  23STCV02814    Hearing Date:   July 8, 2024    Dept:  56  
 
SUPERIOR
COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR
THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



JEREMEY EDWARDS,
  
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
 
AVALON COLD STORAGE, LLC, ET AL., 
                                                                             
  
                        Defendants.                               


 


     
  CASE NO.:  23STCV02814
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER RE: 
DEMURRER TO COMPLAINT, OR ALTERNATIVELY,
  MOTION TO STAY AND ENJOIN PROCEEDINGS
 
Date: July 8, 2024
Time: 8:30 a.m.
Dept. 56
 
 



 
MOVING PARTY: Defendant
Ramin Rostami  (“Rostami”)
RESPONDING PARTY: Plaintiff
Jeremey Edwards (“Plaintiff”)
 
            The Court has considered the moving,
opposition and reply papers. 
 
BACKGROUND
            This action allegedly arises from a wage and hour class action lawsuit entitled
Edwards v. Chartwell Staffing Services, Inc., Case No. 2:16-cv-09187-PSG-KS
(“Federal Court Action”) in the United States District Court, Central District
of California (Western Division) (“Federal Court”).  Plaintiff was the named plaintiff in the
Federal Court Action who filed the action against Chartwell Staffing Services,
Inc. (“Chartwell”).  Chartwell filed a
cross-complaint in the Federal Court Action against American Food Processing
& Packing, LLC (“American Food Packing”). 

 
 On February
27, 2018, a class action settlement (the “Settlement Agreement”) was entered
into between Plaintiff, individually and on behalf of all others similarly
situated, on the one hand, and Chartwell and American Food Packing on the other
hand.  (Compl., Exh. A.)  In the Settlement Agreement, “Defendants” was
defined to mean Chartwell; American Food Packing; Avalon Cold Storage, LLC; and
American Logistics Internation Fulfillment, LLC (collectively, “Settlement
Agreement Defendants”).  (Id., ¶
11.)  In turn, American Food Packing, Avalon
Cold Storage, LLC and American Logistics International Fulfillment, LLC were
collectively referred to as the “Avalon Entities.”  (Id.)[1]  The Settlement Agreement provided for the payment
by Settlement Agreement Defendants of a Gross Settlement Amount of
$800,000.  Chartwell is responsible for
$500,000 of the Gross Settlement Amount, and the Avalon Entities are
responsible for the remaining $300,000. 
(Id., ¶ 17.)  
 
The Federal Court granted final approval of the Settlement
Agreement in a Minute Order entered on August 27, 2018 (the “Minute Order”).  (Exh. 1 to Roswami’s Request for Judicial
Notice [“Roswami RJN”], Federal Court Action Docket, No. 62.)  On August 29, 2019, Plaintiff filed a motion
to enforce the Settlement Agreement against American Food Packing.  (Id., No. 65.)  On October 9, 2019, the Federal Court entered
judgment against American Food Packing in the amount of $300,000 (the
“Judgment”).  (Id., No. 75.)  There is no explanation for why Plaintiff did
not file a motion to enforce the Settlement Agreement against the Avalon
Entities in Federal Court.
 
On February 8, 2023, Plaintiff, as an individual only,
filed the instant complaint (the “Complaint”) before this Court, seeking to enforce the Judgment in the Federal Court
Action, and alleging that the Avalon Entities had breached the Settlement
Agreement by not paying the $300,000 that they were obliged to pay under the
Settlement Agreement.  The
Complaint, naming some, but not all, of the Avalon Entities as defendants, asserts
the following causes of action: (1) action to enforce a judgment; (2) breach of
contract; and (3) declaratory judgment.  On
February 8, 2024, Plaintiff filed Amendments to the Complaint, substituting,
among others, Rostami for the fictitiously named “Doe 1.” Rostami is not a
party to the Settlement Agreement and there are no allegations that would
support enforcement of the Settlement Agreement against Doe 1.
 
On April 25, 2024, Rostami filed a Demurrer to the
Complaint.  In the alternative, Rostami
seeks to stay and enjoin the proceedings. 
Plaintiff filed an opposition on June 24, 2024, to which Rostami filed a
reply on June 28, 2024.  
 
JUDICIAL NOTICE 
            Rostami requests judicial notice of Exh. 1 – the federal docket for the
matter of Jeremy Edwards v. Chartwell Staffing Services, Inc. et al.
Case No. 2:16-cv-09187-PSG-KS.
 
            Plaintiff requests
judicial notice of the following: (1) Exh. A – Defendant Avalon Cold Storage,
LLC’s Statement of Information filed on September 30, 2019; (2) Exh. B –
Defendant American Food Processing & Packing d/b/a Avalon Food Packing’s Statement
of Information filed on September 30, 2019; (3) Exh. C – Defendant American
Logistics International Fulfillment, LLC’s Statement of Information filed on
April 27, 2017. 
The
respective parties’ requests for judicial notice are GRANTED pursuant to
Evidence Code Sections 452, subdivision (d), (h), and 453 (except as to the
truth of the matters stated therein). 
 
DISCUSSION
            “The primary function of a pleading is to give the
other party notice so that it may prepare its case [citation], and a defect in
a pleading that otherwise properly notifies a party cannot be said to affect
substantial rights.”  (Harris v. City
of Santa Monica (2013) 56 Cal.4th 203, 240.)  “A demurrer tests the legal sufficiency of
the factual allegations in a complaint.” (Ivanoff v. Bank of America, N.A. (2017)
9 Cal.App.5th 719, 725.)  The Court looks
to whether “the complaint alleges facts sufficient to state a cause of action
or discloses a complete defense.” (Id.) 
The Court does not “read passages from a complaint in isolation; in
reviewing a ruling on a
demurrer, we read the complaint ‘as a whole and its
parts in their context.’ [Citation.]” (West v.
JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. (2013) 214 Cal.App.4th 780, 804.)  The Court “assume[s] the truth
of the properly pleaded factual allegations, facts
that reasonably can be inferred from those
expressly pleaded and matters of which judicial notice
has been taken.” (Harris, supra, 56 Cal.4th p. 240.) “The
court does not, however, assume the truth of contentions, deductions or
conclusions of law. [Citation.]” (Durell v. Sharp
Healthcare (2010) 183 Cal.App.4th 1350,
1358.)
 
            As a general matter, in a demurrer
proceeding, the defects must be apparent on the face of the pleading or via
proper judicial notice.  (Donabedian
v. Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994.)  “The only issue a demurrer is concerned with
is whether the complaint, as it stands, states a cause of action.  (Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th
740, 747.)
                        
In
the Demurrer, Rostami argues, among other things, that in both the Settlement
Agreement and the Federal Court’s Minute Order, the Federal Court expressly and
exclusively retained jurisdiction to interpret the Settlement Agreement and
enforce resulting judgments.  Rostami further
contends that consequently, this Court does not have jurisdiction, and the
litigation should be dismissed. 
Alternatively, Rostami seeks to stay the proceedings. 
 
            In his opposition, Plaintiff argues
that he is seeking to enforce the Judgment in this case, which purportedly does
not contain any clause regarding jurisdiction. 
Plaintiff asserts that since the Complaint arises from both the
Settlement Agreement and the Judgment, and Plaintiff already sought enforcement
of the Settlement Agreement in Federal Court (although for an unknown reason not
against the Avalon Entities), the Federal Court did not retain exclusive
jurisdiction over the claims alleged in the Complaint.
 
            The Court notes that the Settlement Agreement
contains the following provision:
 
“70.
    Jurisdiction of the Court.        Following entry of the Final Order and
Judgment,
the Court shall retain jurisdiction with respect to the interpretation,
implementation,
and enforcement of the terms of this Stipulation and all orders and judgments
entered in connection therewith, and the Parties, Class Counsel and Defense
Counsel submit to the jurisdiction of the Court for purposes of interpreting, implementing,
and enforcing the Settlement embodied in this Stipulation and all orders and
judgments entered in connection therewith.”


(Compl., Exh. A, ¶ 70.)
 
            
            Moreover, the Minute Order approving
the Settlement Agreement explicitly stated:
 
 
            “…3. Without affecting the finality
of this judgment in any way, this Court hereby retains exclusive jurisdiction over
Defendant and the Settlement Class Members for all matters relating to this
litigation, including the administration, interpretation, effectuation, or
enforcement of the Settlement Agreement and this Order.” 
(Roswami RJN, Exh.
1, Federal Court Action Docket, No.
62.)
 
Thus,
the Court finds that the Federal Court retained exclusive jurisdiction to
interpret and enforce the Settlement Agreement and all orders and judgments
related thereto.  Where the district
court expressly retains jurisdiction to enforce a settlement agreement, and to
resolve disputes that may arise under it, litigation in state court would pose
a significant risk of frustrating the district court’s jurisdiction over the
consent judgment.  (Flanagan v. Arnaiz
(9th Cir. 1998) 143 F.3d 540.)  
 
            The Court finds in addition that the
Complaint itself does not state a valid cause of action relating to the
Settlement Agreement.  It alleges that
Plaintiff is the named Plaintiff in a class action and that he alone, not the
class, is seeking to enforce the payment of $300,000 pursuant to the Settlement
Agreement.  Assuming that this relief
were granted, it would accrue to the benefit of the individual Plaintiff, and
not to the class which it was intended to benefit.  This Court would have no jurisdiction over
the other class members to whom this money allegedly was to be distributed.
 
The
Court therefore finds that the Federal Court has exclusive jurisdiction to
interpret and enforce the Settlement Agreement.  The appropriate resolution is to allow the
Federal Court to determine the matters raised in this lawsuit pertaining to the
interpretation and enforcement of the Settlement Agreement.  The Federal Court has the sole jurisdiction
over the other class members and therefore is the only jurisdiction in which the
obligations under the Settlement Agreement can be determined.  The Court therefore SUSTAINS the Demurrer
without leave to amend, as the current allegations in the Complaint cannot be
amended to allege a viable claim against Defendants.
 
In
view of the above discussion, the Court finds no need to consider the remaining
arguments in the Demurrer regarding whether the allegations in the Complaint
sufficiently state the causes of action against Rostami.
 
RULING
            In light of all the foregoing, the
demurrer is hereby SUSTAINED without leave to amend.  
 
Moving
Party is ordered to give notice of this ruling.            
 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at SMC_DEPT56@lacourt.org as directed
by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department does not receive an email
and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion will be placed off
calendar.
 
Dated this 8th day of July 2024
 




 


 




 


Hon. Holly J.
  Fujie
Judge of the
  Superior Court
 






