  Case Number:  23STCV20137    Hearing Date:   October 2, 2024    Dept:  50  
 
Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
Department
50
 
 




HENRY PULLIAM, et al.,
                        Plaintiffs,
            vs.
RELIANT LIFE SHARES, LLC, et al.,
                        Defendants.


Case No.:


23STCV20137




Hearing Date:


October 2, 2024




Hearing Time:


10:00 a.m.




[TENTATIVE] ORDER RE:
PLAINTIFFS’
  MOTION FOR LEAVE TO FILE A FIRST AMENDED COMPLAINT
 




            
Background 
On
August 21, 2023, Plaintiffs Henry Pulliam and Judith Pulliam (jointly,
“Plaintiffs”) filed this action against Defendant Reliant Life Shares, LLC. The
Complaint alleges causes of action for (1) fraud – intentional
misrepresentation, (2) negligent misrepresentation, (3) fraud-omissions, (4)
breach of fiduciary duty, (5) professional negligence, (6) rescission, and 
(7) money had
and received. 
Plaintiffs
now move for leave to file a first amended complaint. The motion is unopposed. 
Request for Judicial Notice 
The
Court grants Plaintiffs’ request for judicial notice. 
Discussion 
Pursuant to Code
of Civil Procedure section 473, subdivision (a)(1),
“[t]he court may, in furtherance of justice, and on any terms as may be proper,
allow a party to amend any pleading.” Amendment may be allowed at any time
before or after commencement of trial. ((Id., § 576.) “[T]he court’s
discretion will usually be exercised liberally to permit amendment of the
pleadings. The policy favoring amendment is so strong that it is a rare case in
which denial of leave to amend can be justified.” ((Howard v. County of San Diego (2010) 184 Cal.App.4th 1422, 1428 [internal
citations omitted].) “If the motion to
amend is timely made and the granting of the motion will not prejudice the
opposing party, it is error to refuse permission to amend….” ((Morgan v. Superior Court of Los Angeles County (1959) 172 Cal.App.2d 527, 530.) Prejudice includes “delay in trial, loss of critical
evidence, or added costs of preparation.” (Solit v.
Tokai Bank, Ltd. New York Branch (1999) 68 Cal.App.4th 1435, 1448.)
A motion to amend a pleading before trial must include a copy of the
proposed amendment or amended pleading, which must be serially numbered to
differentiate it from previous pleadings or amendments. (Cal.
Rules of Court, rule 3.1324, subd. (a).) The motion must also state what
allegations are proposed to be deleted or added, by page, paragraph, and line
number. (Ibid.) Finally, a
“separate declaration must accompany the motion and must specify: (1) The
effect of the amendment; (2) Why the amendment is necessary and proper; (3)
When the facts giving rise to the amended allegations were discovered; and (4)
The reasons why the request for amendment was not made earlier.” (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1324, subd.
(b).)  
Exhibit 1 to Plaintiffs’ counsel’s supporting declaration is a “copy
of the proposed First Amended Complaint, with the changes/additions bolded and
highlighted.” (Steuer Decl., ¶ 2.) Plaintiffs’ counsel indicates that “the proposed
First Amended Complaint makes the following changes to the original complaint:
1) it adds six proposed new defendants to the complaint; 2) it adds factual
allegations pertaining to those six defendants; 3) it specifies which causes of
action are asserted against each of the defendants; 4) it specifies the alleged
misconduct of the six proposed new defendants; and 5) it adds allegations of
facts and conduct which occurred or was first discovered after the original
complaint was filed.” (Steuer Decl., ¶ 2.) Plaintiffs’ counsel states that “[t]he
primary purpose of the proposed First Amended Complaint is to add six
defendants to the complaint who are alleged to be alter egos of the original
defendant, and to allege alter ego liability as to those six proposed new
defendants.” (Steuer Decl., ¶ 2.)
Plaintiffs’ counsel further states that “[t]he proposed additional
alter ego defendants were not included in the original complaint because
Plaintiffs and I were unaware of their alter ego relationship with the original
defendant at that time. My office learned of the alter ego relationship after being
informed in another matter in which I am counsel that the original defendant
was in receivership. In the course of reviewing filings in the receivership
proceeding, I discovered that the Los Angeles County Superior Court had ruled
that the proposed additional defendants are alter egos of the original
defendant, after a trial on the merits in another matter which was affirmed on
appeal, and had made specific factual findings to that effect.” (Steuer Decl.,
¶ 4.)
 In addition, Plaintiffs’
counsel states that “I discovered that the original defendant engaged in
misrepresentations, omissions and breaches of duty of which Plaintiffs and I
were not previously aware from filings in the other matter in Los Angeles
County Superior court, filings in a putative class action case against the
original defendant, filings which the receiver of the original defendant has
made, and discovery produced in another matter against the original defendant
in which I am counsel.” (Steuer Decl., ¶ 5.) Plaintiffs’ counsel also states
that “[t]he DOE defendants were dismissed at the case management conference
before I was aware that the proposed new defendants were alter egos of the
original defendant and therefore appropriate DOE defendants. My office promptly
prepared the proposed first amended complaint upon becoming aware of the
proposed new defendants’ alter ego liability and the additional acts of
wrongdoing by the original defendant.” (Steuer Decl., ¶ 6.) 
Plaintiffs assert that they “should be allowed to include all known
joint tortfeasors in this case in order to avoid a multiplicity of actions
arising out of the same investment and events. Likewise, Plaintiffs should be
allowed to allege all claims which are supported by the facts of their case,
and all facts which support their claims against the original defendant and the
proposed additional defendants.” (Mot. at p. 4:1-5.) 
Based
on the foregoing, and in light of the lack of any opposition, the Court finds
that Plaintiffs have demonstrated good cause to file the proposed First Amended
Complaint. 
Conclusion
Based on the foregoing, Plaintiffs’ motion is granted. The Court orders Plaintiffs to file and
serve the First Amended Complaint within 3 days of the date of this Order.¿   
Plaintiffs
are ordered to give notice of this Order.  
 
DATED:  October 2, 2024                             ________________________________
Hon. Teresa A.
Beaudet
Judge, Los
Angeles Superior Court