 Case Number:  24STCV02929    Hearing Date:   October 2, 2024    Dept:  50  
 
Superior
Court of California
County
of Los Angeles
Department 50
            



KEEP AMERICA SAFE AND
  BEAUTIFUL,
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
VOYAGE FOODS, INC.,
  et al.,
                        Defendants.


Case No.:


24STCV02929




Hearing Date:


October 2, 2024




Hearing Time:


10:00 a.m.




[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE:
 
MOTION FOR ENTRY OF STIPULATED
  CONSENT JUDGMENT



 
Background 
Plaintiff Keep America Safe
and Beautiful (“Plaintiff”) filed this Proposition 65 action on 
February 5, 2024 against Defendant Voyage
Foods, Inc. (“Defendant”). The Complaint alleges one cause of action for
violations of Health and Safety Code section 25249.6. 
            In the Complaint, Plaintiff alleges,
inter alia, that “[t]his Complaint seeks to remedy Defendant’s
continuing failure to adequately warn individuals in California that they are
being exposed to cadmium, a chemical known to the State of California to cause
cancer and other reproductive harm. Such exposures have occurred, and continue
to occur, through the manufacture, distribution, sale and consumption of
Defendant’s Voyage - Peanut-Free Spread - Roasted Seed Spread - UPC#: 8 60007
88390 3 (the ‘Product’). The Product is available to consumers in California
through a multitude of retail channels including, without limitation (a)
third-party traditional brick-and-mortar retail locations; (b) via the internet
through Defendant’s website; and (c) via the internet through third-party
retail websites. Consumers are exposed to cadmium when they consume the
Product.” (Compl., ¶ 1.) Plaintiff alleges that “Defendant has at all times
relevant to this Complaint violated Proposition 65 by knowingly and
intentionally exposing individuals to cadmium without first giving clear and
reasonable warnings to such individuals regarding the reproductive toxicity of
cadmium.” (Compl., ¶ 33.) 
            Plaintiff’s counsel states in his
declaration in support of the motion that “the parties have agreed to terms of
a settlement, embodied within a stipulated form of [Proposed] Consent Judgment.”
(Krikorian Decl., ¶ 10.)
Plaintiff now moves “for an order to enter judgment pursuant to the
terms of the stipulated settlement of this case executed by all parties on or
about August 8, 2024.” The motion is unopposed. 
Discussion 
Under Health and Safety Code section 25249.6,
“[n]o person in the course of doing business shall knowingly and intentionally
expose any individual to a chemical known to the state to cause cancer or
reproductive toxicity without first giving clear and reasonable warning to such
individual, except as provided in Section 25249.10.”
 “If there is a settlement of an
action brought by a person in the public interest under subdivision (d), the
plaintiff shall submit the settlement, other than a voluntary dismissal in
which no consideration is received from the defendant, to the court for
approval upon noticed motion, and the court may approve the settlement only if
the court makes all of the following findings: (A) The warning that is
required by the settlement complies with this chapter. (B) The award of
attorney’s fees is reasonable under California law. (C) The penalty amount
is reasonable based on the criteria set forth in paragraph (2) of subdivision
(b).” (Health & Saf. Code, § 25249.7, subd. (f)(4).)
The plaintiff “has the burden of producing evidence sufficient to sustain each
required finding. The plaintiff shall serve the motion and all supporting
papers on the Attorney General, who may appear and participate in a proceeding
without intervening in the case.” (Health & Saf.
Code, § 25249.7, subd. (f)(5).)
Here, the proof of service attached to the motion
states that the moving papers were served on Defendant’s counsel and “Office of
the Attorney General” on August 9, 2024.  
The Warning’s Compliance
Health and Safety Code section 25249.6 provides, “[n]o person in the course
of doing business shall knowingly and intentionally expose any individual to a
chemical known to the state to cause cancer or reproductive toxicity without
first giving clear and reasonable warning to such individual, except as provided
in Section 25249.10.” Pursuant to California Code of Regulations, title
27, section 25601, subdivision
(a), “[a] warning is ‘clear and reasonable’
within the meaning of Section 25249.6 of the Act if
the warning complies with all applicable requirements of this article.” 
The
subject [Proposed] Consent Judgment as to Voyage Foods, Inc. (herein, the
“Proposed Consent Judgment”) indicates that it is “entered into by and between
KEEP AMERICA SAFE AND BEAUTIFUL, acting on behalf of the public interest
(hereinafter ‘KASB’) and VOYAGE FOODS, INC. (hereinafter ‘VOYAGE’ or ‘Defendant’).”
(Krikorian Decl., ¶ 10, Ex. C, ¶ 1.1) 
The
Proposed Consent Judgment provides that “[b]eginning on the Compliance Date[1],
VOYAGE shall be permanently enjoined from manufacturing for sale in the State
of California, ‘Distributing into the State of California,’ or directly selling
in the State of California, any Covered Product that causes an exposure, as set
forth in Section 25249.6 of Proposition 65 and its
implementing regulations, to a ‘Daily Cadmium Exposure Level’ of more than 4.1
micrograms of cadmium per day unless it meets the warning requirements under Section 3.2.” (Krikorian Decl., ¶ 10, Ex. C, ¶ 3.1.)
The “Covered Product” is defined as “Voyage-Peanut-Free Spread-Roasted Seed
Spread-UPC #: 8 60007 88390 3.” (Ibid., ¶ 1.3.)

The
Proposed Consent Judgment further provides that “[i]f VOYAGE is required to
provide a warning pursuant to Section 3.1, one of
the following warnings must be utilized pursuant to California Code of
Regulations (‘CCR’) title 27, sections 25603 and
25607.2 (‘Warning’):…” (Krikorian Decl., ¶ 10, Ex. C, ¶ 3.2.) “Option 1”
and “Option 2” warnings are set forth in paragraph 3.2 of the Proposed Consent
Judgment. (Ibid.) 
Pursuant
to California Code of Regulations, title 27, section 25603, subdivision (a), “[u]nless otherwise specified in Section 25607.1 et seq., a warning meets the
requirements of this subarticle if it is provided using one or more of the
methods required in Section 25602 and includes all
the following elements: 
(1) A
symbol consisting of a black exclamation point in a yellow equilateral triangle
with a bold black outline. Where the sign, label or shelf tag for the product
is not printed using the color yellow, the symbol may be printed in black and
white. The symbol shall be placed to the left of the text of the warning, in a
size no smaller than the height of the word ‘WARNING’.
(2) The
word ‘WARNING:’ in all capital letters and bold print, and:…(D) For
exposures to a chemical that is listed as both a carcinogen and a reproductive
toxicant, the words, ‘This product can expose you to chemicals including [name
of one or more chemicals], which is [are§ known to the State of California to
cause cancer and birth defects or other reproductive harm. For more information
go to www.P65Warnings.ca.gov.’” 
Here, “Option 1” of the warnings set forth in paragraph 3.2 of
the Proposed Consent Judgment appears to comply with California
Code of Regulations, title 27, section 25603, subdivision (a). The “Option 1” warning also appears to
comply with California Code of Regulations, title 27, section 25607.2, subdivision (a).
Pursuant
to California Code of Regulations, title 27, section 25603, subdivision (b), “[a] short-form warning may be provided on
the product label using all the following elements:
(1) The symbol required in
subsection (a)(1). (2) The word ‘WARNING:’ in all capital letters, in bold
print….(C) For exposures to both listed carcinogens and reproductive toxicants,
the words, ‘Cancer and Reproductive Harm -- www.P65Warnings.ca.gov.’” Here,
“Option 2” of the warnings set forth in paragraph
3.2 of the Proposed Consent Judgment appears to comply with California
Code of Regulations, title 27, section 25603, subdivision (b). 
Pursuant
to California Code of Regulations, title 27, section 25602, subdivision (a), “[u]nless otherwise specified in Section
25607 et seq, a consumer product exposure warning meets the requirements of
this subarticle if it complies with the content requirements in Section 25603 and is provided using one or more of the
following methods: (1) A product-specific warning
provided on a posted sign, shelf tag, or shelf sign, for the consumer product
at each point of display of the product. (2) A
product-specific warning provided via any electronic device or process that
automatically provides the warning to the purchaser prior to or during the purchase
of the consumer product, without requiring the purchaser to seek out the
warning.
(3) A warning on the label that
complies with the content requirements in Section
25603(a).
(4) A short-form warning on the
label that complies with the content requirements in Section
25603(b). The entire warning must be in a type size no smaller than
the largest type size used for other consumer information on the product. In no
case shall the warning appear in a type size smaller than 6-point type.” Here,
the Proposed Consent Judgment provides that “[t]he Warning shall be securely
affixed to or printed upon the label of each Covered Product and it must be set
off from other surrounding information.” (Krikorian Decl., ¶ 10, Ex. C, ¶ 3.2.)
Pursuant
to California Code of Regulations, title 27, section 25602, subdivision (b), “[f]or internet purchases, a warning that
complies with the content requirements of Section
25603(a) must also be provided by including either the warning or a clearly
marked hyperlink using the word ‘WARNING’ on the product display page, or by
otherwise prominently displaying the warning to the purchaser prior to
completing the purchase. If the warning is provided using the short-form
warning label content pursuant to Section 25602(a)(4),
the warning provided on the website may use the same content. For purposes of
this subarticle, a warning is not prominently displayed if the purchaser must
search for it in the general content of the website.” Here, the Proposed
Consent Judgment provides that “for any Covered Product sold over the internet,
the Warning shall appear on the checkout page, or prominently displayed to the
purchaser prior to completing the purchase, in full text or through a clearly
marked hyperlink using the word ‘WARNING’ in all capital and bold letters when
a California delivery address is indicated for any purchase of any Covered
Product. If a hyperlink is used, the hyper link must go directly to a page
prominently displaying the Warning without content that detracts from the
Warning.” (Krikorian Decl., ¶ 10, Ex. C, ¶ 3.2.)
Based on the foregoing, the Court finds that
Plaintiff has shown that the “[t]he warning that
is required by the settlement complies with this chapter.” (Health
& Saf. Code, § 25249.7, subd. (f)(4)(A).)
Reasonableness of Award of Attorneys’ Fees and Costs 
The Proposed Consent
Judgment requires Defendant
to pay Plaintiff’s counsel “$40,000.00 for all attorneys’ fees, expert
and investigation fees and related costs associated with this matter and the
Notice.” (Krikorian Decl.,
¶ 10, Ex. C, ¶ 5.) The Court
finds that Plaintiff’s counsel’s supporting declaration justifies the fee
award. Plaintiff’s counsel sets forth the experience and background of each of
the attorneys who worked on this case, as well as the requested hourly rate for
each attorney. (Krikorian Decl., ¶¶ 1-5, pp. 4-5.) Mr. Krikorian’s
hourly rate is $450/hour, Mr. Thomassian’s hourly rate is $550/hour, and Mr.
Jivalagian’s hourly rate is $550/hour. (Krikorian Decl., ¶¶ 1, 4, 5, pp. 4-5.) The Court finds that
these requested hourly rates are reasonable. 
            Plaintiff’s counsel attests to the fact that “a total lodestar
of $40,000” has been expended on this case. (Krikorian Decl., ¶ 6, p. 5.) No time records are included, but Plaintiff’s counsel does provide a
detailed review of the work performed by the attorneys. (Krikorian
Decl., ¶ 6, pp. 5-6.) In addition, Plaintiff’s counsel states that his firm has
advanced approximately $4,500.00 in unreimbursed litigation expenses in this
matter. (Krikorian Decl.,
¶ 6, p. 6.) 
The Court finds that the
amount allocated for attorney’s fees and costs in the Proposed Consent Judgment
is reasonable. 
 
 
Reasonableness of Penalty Amount
Under Health and Safety Code section 25249.7,
subdivision (b)(2), the Court shall consider the following factors in
assessing the amount of the civil penalty: “(A) The nature and extent of
the violation. (B) The number of, and severity of, the violations.
(C) The economic effect of the penalty on the violator. (D) Whether
the violator took good faith measures to comply with this chapter and the time
these measures were taken. (E) The willfulness of the violator’s
misconduct. (F) The deterrent effect that the imposition of the penalty
would have on both the violator and the regulated community as a whole.
(G) Any other factor that justice may require.” 
The Proposed Consent
Judgment provides that Defendant will pay a civil penalty in the amount of $7,500.00.
(Krikorian Decl., ¶ 10, Ex. C., ¶ 4.) In compliance with Health and Safety Code
section 25249.12, the Proposed Consent Judgment provides that 75% ($5,625.00)
of the civil penalty shall be disbursed to the California Office of
Environmental Health Hazard Assessment, and the remaining 25% ($1,875.00) shall
be paid to Plaintiff. (Ibid.) Plaintiff’s
counsel asserts that the “penalty is appropriate given a number of mitigating
factors, including, without limitation: (1) Defendant’s willingness to agree,
pursuant to the terms of the Consent Judgment, to maintain an appropriate
warning to consumers directly on the label of the packaging or container of the
Covered Product that it contains Cadmium, and to warn of its reproductive
toxicity and carcinogenic potential; (2) the relatively low cadmium levels
contained in the Subject Product which, while well in excess of the safe harbor
Maximum Allowable Dosage Level of 4.1 micrograms per grams of product, were
nonetheless well below the thousand-fold level known to cause reproductive
toxicity.” (Krikorian Decl., ¶ 13, pp. 3-4.)
Plaintiff asserts that “the nature and severity of the subject
violation is best described as moderate,” and that “Defendant has been very
cooperative in providing Plaintiff with any information requested, and,
consistent with the aims of the Act, has been amenable to crafting an
appropriate resolution.” (Mot. at p. 10:7-9; 10:12-15.) 
The Court finds that the
civil penalty amount provided for in the Proposed Consent Judgment is
reasonable.
Conclusion 
Based
on the foregoing, Plaintiff’s motion for entry of stipulated consent judgment
is granted. The Court will sign the proposed Judgment on Proposition 65
Settlement submitted on August 13, 2024. 
Plaintiff
is ordered to provide notice of this Order. 
 
DATED:  October 2, 2024                             ________________________________
Hon. Teresa A.
Beaudet
Judge, Los
Angeles Superior Court 


