 Case Number:  22STCV23103    Hearing Date:   June 11, 2024    Dept:  29 Motion to Continue
Trial filed by Defendants Ram Singh, Performance Transportation, LLC, and
Performance Food Group, Inc.
Tentative
The motion is denied.
Background
On July 18, 2022, Kevin Frudakis
(“Plaintiff”) filed a complaint against Ram Singh, Performance Transportation,
LLC, Performance Food Group, Inc. (collectively “Defendants”), and Does 1 to 50,
asserting causes of action for motor vehicle negligence and general negligence arising
out of an accident on September 24, 2020, on the 110 Freeway just north of Sepulveda
Boulevard in Los Angeles.  On filing, the
case was assigned a trial date of January 16, 2024.
On August 15, 2022, Defendants filed an
answer to the complaint.
On July 13, 2023, Sedwick, Plaintiff-in-Intervention
and the workers compensation carrier for Plaintiff’s employer, filed its
Complaint-in-Intervention against Defendants and Roes 1 through 50.
On November 28, 2023, the Court granted Defendants’
motion to continue trial (over the opposition of Plaintiff) so that Defendants would
have additional time to complete discovery. 
The Court set a new trial date of June 11, 2024, and continued the
discovery deadlines. 
On March 28, 2024, the Court granted
Defendants’ ex parte application to continue trial so that the parties could
mediate.  The Court set a new trial date
of July 10, 2024, and continued the discovery deadlines.
On May 28, 2024, Defendants filed another ex
parte application to continue trial.  The
Court set the application for hearing on the motion calendar on June 11, ordered
that it would treat the application as Defendants’ moving papers, and ordered Plaintiff
to file any opposition by June 5.  
Plaintiff filed an opposition on June 5.
Legal Standard
Code of Civil Procedure section 128,
subdivision (a)(8), provides that the court has the power to amend and control
its process and orders so as to make them conform to law and justice. “The
power to determine when a continuance should be granted is within the
discretion of the trial court.” (Color-Vue, Inc. v. Abrams (1996) 44
Cal.App.4th 1599, 1603.) “A trial court has wide latitude in the matter of
calendar control including the granting or denying of continuances.” (Park
Motors, Inc. v. Cozens (1975) 49 Cal.App.3d 12, 18.)  
“To ensure the prompt disposition of civil
cases, the dates assigned for trial are firm. 
All parties and their counsel must regard the date set for trial as
certain.”  (Cal. Rules of Court, rule
3.1332(a).)
“Although continuances of trials are
disfavored, each request for a continuance must be considered on its own
merits.”  (Cal. Rules of Court, rule
3.1332(c).)  “The court may grant a
continuance only on an affirmative showing of good cause requiring the
continuance.”  (Ibid.)  Circumstances that may support a finding of
good cause include:  
“(1) The
unavailability of an essential lay or expert witness because of death, illness,
or other excusable circumstances;  
(2) The
unavailability of a party because of death, illness, or other excusable
circumstances;  
(3) The
unavailability of trial counsel because of death, illness, or other excusable
circumstances;  
(4) The
substitution of trial counsel, but only where there is an affirmative showing
that the substitution is required in the interests of justice;  
(5) The addition
of a new party if: (A) The new party has not had a reasonable opportunity to
conduct discovery and prepare for trial; or (B) The other parties have not had
a reasonable opportunity to conduct discovery and prepare for trial in regard
to the new party's involvement in the case; 

(6) A party's
excused inability to obtain essential testimony, documents, or other material
evidence despite diligent efforts; or  
(7) A
significant, unanticipated change in the status of the case as a result of
which the case is not ready for trial.”  
(Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1332(c).)  
“In ruling on a motion or application for
continuance, the court must consider all the facts and circumstances that are
relevant to the determination.”  (Cal.
Rules of Court, rule 3.1332(d).)  California
Rules of Court, rule 3.1332(d) sets forth a non-exhaustive list of factors that
the court may consider:  
“(1) The
proximity of the trial date;  
(2) Whether
there was any previous continuance, extension of time, or delay of trial due to
any party;  
(3) The length
of the continuance requested;  
(4) The
availability of alternative means to address the problem that gave rise to the
motion or application for a continuance; 

(5) The
prejudice that parties or witnesses will suffer as a result of the continuance;

(6) If the case
is entitled to a preferential trial setting, the reasons for that status and
whether the need for a continuance outweighs the need to avoid delay; 
(7) The court's
calendar and the impact of granting a continuance on other pending trials; 
(8) Whether
trial counsel is engaged in another trial; 

(9) Whether all
parties have stipulated to a continuance; 

(10) Whether the
interests of justice are best served by a continuance, by the trial of the
matter, or by imposing conditions on the continuance; and  
(11) Any other
fact or circumstance relevant to the fair determination of the motion or
application.”  
(Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1332(d).) 
Discussion
Defendants request
a trial continuance on essentially four grounds: (1) that they obtained
information in April 2024 about Plaintiff engaging in activities that are inconsistent
with his claimed injuries and they are diligently pursuing discovery into these
matters (Motu Decl., ¶¶ 7-9); (2) that significant discovery still remains to
be done (id., ¶ 6); (3) that lead trial
counsel recently had another trial continued to July 1, with an estimated
length of 20-25 days; and (4) that two of Defendants’ experts are unavailable
from July 12-28 (no evidence submitted but raised in notice at p. 3.).
The Court has
considered the evidence in the record and the argument of both sides and
concludes that Defendants have not shown good cause for a continuance on this
record and at this time.  The Court
addresses each of Defendants’ arguments in turn.
First, Defendants
are in the process of pursuing discovery relating to their contention that
Plaintiff has engaged in activities that are inconsistent with his claimed
injuries.  The Court, of course, has no
idea whether there is or is not merit to that contention, but Defendants are
certainly entitled to pursue discovery into all matters that are either
admissible at trial or likely to lead to the discovery of admissible
evidence.  There is a motion to compel set
for hearing on June 25, the last day for discovery motions to be heard in
advance of trial.  
The Court has not
reviewed that motion and expresses no views on the merits.  As with any other motion, the moving party
has a right to be heard, and, after the hearing, the Court might grant the
motion, might deny the motion, or might grant it in part or deny it in part. 
Defendants are, at
this time, essentially asking the Court to assume (1) that the motion will be
granted and further assume (2) that, even though the motion will be heard
within the statutory period for pre-trial discovery motions, compliance with an
order granting the motion to compel will make it impossible for trial to
proceed on the scheduled date.  Defendants
may or may not prove to be correct on one or both of these points, but it is
premature to ask the Court to continue the trial date at this time based on
assumptions, possibilities, and speculation. 
 
Having said that, and
again without expressing any views on the merits of a discovery motion that the
Court has not reviewed, Plaintiff may wish to review its responses and consider
whether it would be appropriate to amend or supplement now, voluntarily, in advance
of the hearing.  Because if Defendants
are correct that their motion will be granted and the volume of discovery at
issue is significant, then Defendants may well have a meritorious argument for
a trial continuance after the Court has ruled on the discovery motion.  The sooner that any such discovery is
provided to Defendants, the stronger is the Plaintiff’s argument that trial
should not be continued.
Second, the Court
does not find that there is good cause to continue the trial again so that
Defendants can complete other discovery. 
Defendants answered in August 2022, and trial was initially set for January
2024.  Trial has been continued twice.  The first continuance, which was for almost five
months, was granted specifically so that Defendants would have additional time
to complete their discovery.  Defendants
have had plenty of time to conduct discovery and have not shown good cause for another
continuance based on their contention that additional general discovery needs
to be done.
Third, the Court does not find that there is good cause at this time to
continue trial to accommodate the schedule of Defendants’ lead trial counsel.  The Court, of course, does not expect counsel
to be in two places at once, and if lead trial counsel is actually and actively
engaged in another trial on July 10, then this matter will need to trail or be
continued.  But the Court does not find good
cause at this time to continue this trial merely because trial counsel may potentially
be engaged in another trial on July 10.  Cases
settle, trials get continued for a myriad of reasons, and the mere possibility of
a conflict next month – or even a probability of such a conflict – is not a
sufficient ground to continue trial at this time.
Fourth, the
reported conflict with the schedules of experts appears to be more theoretical
than real.  Even if there were evidence
in the record supporting the experts’ scheduling issues, Defendants report that
the experts will be available by July 28. 
Unless the trial is going to be a short one, the issues of ordering and scheduling
of witness testimony can be dealt with by the trial court.  If Defendants’ concern is that the trial will
be completed before July 28, then Defendants may renew the request, with evidence
explaining why the experts are not available for the scheduled trial and when Defendants
became aware of this issue, and the Court will consider trailing trial for a
short period (or possibly granting a request for a brief continuance).
In sum, each of
the reasons presented in support of the request for a continuance, whether considered
separately or in the aggregate, do not establish good cause for a continuance
of trial at this time.  The motion is
denied. 
Conclusion
The Court DENIES Defendants’
motion to continue trial.
Moving Party is ORDERED to give notice.