


[1]On May 1, 2024,
the Court issued an Order pertaining to the County’s and the City’s respective
demurrers to the TAC. The Court’s May 1, 2024 Order provides, inter alia,
that the Court grants the County’s request for judicial notice filed in support
of the County’s demurrer. 


[2]The Court notes
that on June 20, 2024, a Fifth Amended Complaint was submitted in this action.
The Fifth Amended Complaint was “electronically received” on such date but was
not filed. The docket for this action does not show that Plaintiff was
authorized to file any Fifth Amended Complaint.   
 


[3]The FAC does not
appear to allege any fourth or twelfth causes of action.  


[4]The Court notes
that the first, thirteenth, and fifteenth causes of action do not appear to specify
which defendant(s) such causes of action are alleged against. The second cause
of action is alleged against “LAPD.” The third cause of action is alleged
against the “Los Angeles Police Department, Los Angeles Fire Department, County
of Los Angeles, Department of Coroner.” The fifth cause of action is alleged
against “County of Los Angeles, Department of Coroner, City of Los Angeles
Police Department, Los Angeles Fire Department.” The sixth, seventh, eighth,
ninth, and tenth causes of action are alleged against “All Defendants.” The
eleventh cause of action is alleged against “Police Department.” The fourteenth
cause of action is alleged against “Los Angeles City Police Department, Los
Angeles Fire Department, Los Angeles Fire department EMT.” 
 


[5]In the opposition,
Love states that she is “proceeding solely as Carolyn Love, an individual.”
(Opp’n at p. 2:8.)


[6]The Court also
notes that Love’s opposition asserts, inter alia, that “Plaintiff’s
Fifth Amended Complaint contains detailed factual allegations that, if proven
true, constitute valid causes of action against Defendants.” (Opp’n at p.
23:12-13.) However, as discussed, the Fourth Amended Complaint is the operative
pleading in this case. Plaintiff’s Fifth Amended Complaint was not filed, and
the Court did not authorize Plaintiff to file a Fifth Amended Complaint. 


[7]As discussed, Government
Code section 815.6 provides that “[w]here
a public entity is under a mandatory duty imposed by an enactment that is
designed to protect against the risk of a particular kind of injury, the public
entity is liable for an injury of that kind proximately caused by its failure
to discharge the duty unless the public entity establishes that it exercised
reasonable diligence to discharge the duty.” Plaintiff’s
first cause of action also does not appear to identify any
specific statute or regulation purportedly imposing a mandatory duty on the
City. 
 


[8]The City also asserts
that “[t]he Eleventh claim is an added claim which also violates the Court’s
previous order not to add any additional claims.” (Demurrer at p. 11:25-26.)
Indeed, the TAC does not appear to specifically allege a cause of action for
“negligent investigation and failure to perform welfare check.” (County’s 12/20/23
RJN, ¶ 1, Ex. A.) The Court notes that “[f]ollowing an order sustaining a
demurrer or a motion for judgment on the pleadings with leave to amend, the
plaintiff may amend his or her complaint only as authorized by the court’s
order.¿The plaintiff may not amend the complaint to add a new cause of action
without having obtained permission to do so, unless the new cause of action is
within the scope of the order granting leave to amend.” (Harris v. Wachovia Mortgage, FSB (2010) 185
Cal.App.4th 1018, 1023, [internal citation omitted].) The Court’s May
1, 2024 Order did not authorize Plaintiff to allege an additional cause of
action for “negligent investigation and failure to perform
welfare check.” The Court finds that this is an additional ground to sustain
the City’s demurrer to the eleventh cause of action of the FAC. 

