 Case Number:  22STCV33580    Hearing Date:   July 12, 2024    Dept:  50  
 
 



CAROLYN TRACIE LOVE,
  individually and as trustee for Trashawn Tillet,
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
LOS ANGELES COUNTY,
  DEPARTMENT OF THE CORONER, et
  al.
                        Defendants.


Case No.:


22STCV33580




Hearing Date:


July 12, 2024




Hearing
  Time:    2:00 p.m. 
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE:
 
DEFENDANT COUNTY
  OF LOS ANGELES’ DEMURRERS TO PLAINTIFF’S FOURTH AMENDED COMPLAINT; 
 
DEFENDANT CITY
  OF LOS ANGELES’ DEMURRER TO PLAINTIFF’S FOURTH AMENDED COMPLAINT
 



            
Background
Plaintiff
Carolyn Tracie Love, individually and as trustee for Trashawn
Tillett filed this action on October 14, 2022 against Defendants Los Angeles
County, Department of the Coroner; Los Angeles City; Los Angeles Police
Department; and Los Angeles Fire Department. 
On May 23, 2023, Defendant City of Los Angeles filed a notice of
removal of the action to federal court. 
On November 15, 2023, the United States District Court, Central
District of California issued an “Order Granting in Part Defendants’ Motions to
Dismiss [DKT Nos. 70, 71] And Remanding Case” in the matter Carolyn Tracie
Love v. Los Angeles County, et al., Case No. 2:23-cv-03851-SB-PVC
(herein, the “Federal Action”). The November 15, 2023 Order in the Federal
Action provides, inter alia, as follows: 
 
“After
Defendants moved to dismiss her Second Amended Complaint (SAC), Plaintiff, now
proceeding pro se, filed an untimely Third Amended Complaint (TAC) nearly two
weeks after her opposition deadline had passed. Dkt. No. 65. The TAC
significantly expands on her earlier pleadings, spanning 68 pages and alleging
24 causes of action…including 13 federal claims. Id. The Court
allowed the filing of the TAC and denied as moot the motions to dismiss the
SAC. Dkt. No. 67. The City and County now move to dismiss Plaintiff’s TAC for
failure to state a claim. Dkt. Nos. 70, 71. The Court finds this
matter suitable for decision without oral argument and vacates the December 1,
2023 motion hearing. Fed. R. Civ. P. 78;
L.R. 7-15. Because Plaintiff has not alleged any plausible federal
claims, the Court dismisses her federal causes of action and remands the
remaining claims to state court.” (November 15, 2023 Order, p. 2.) 
The November 15, 2023 Order in the Federal Action concludes that
“[a]ccordingly, the Court GRANTS IN PART Defendants’ motions to dismiss, and
Plaintiff’s federal claims in Counts 7, 11, 14, and 16-25 are DISMISSED on the
merits with prejudice. The Court does not reach the rest of Defendants’
arguments, but instead declines to exercise supplemental jurisdiction over
Plaintiff’s remaining state-law claims. The case is therefore REMANDED to the
state court from which it was removed.” (November 15, 2023 Order, p. 8.)
On November 20, 2023, a notice from the United States District Court,
Central District of California was filed in this action indicating, inter
alia, that “[p]ursuant to this Court’s ORDER OF REMAND issued on
11/15/2023, the above-referenced case is hereby remanded to your jurisdiction.”

Defendants County of Los Angeles (the “County”) and City of Los
Angeles (the “City”) demurred to the Third Amended Complaint for Damages
(“TAC”). As noted in the County’s request for judicial notice in support of the
County’s Demurrer to the TAC, filed on December 20, 2023, the subject TAC was
filed in the Federal Action on September 28, 2023. (County’s RJN, ¶ 1, Ex. A.)[1] The
County demurred to the TAC’s third cause of action for negligent investigation
and failure to render aid, fifth cause of action for negligent hiring, sixth
cause of action for violation of California constitutional rights, eighth cause
of action for intentional and negligent infliction of emotional distress, ninth
cause of action (untitled), and tenth cause of action for constructive
fraud-intentional misrepresentation – concealment. (See May 1, 2024
Order; County’s 12/20/2023 RJN, ¶ 1, Ex. A.) On May 1, 2024, the Court issued
an Order sustaining the County’s demurrer to the third, fifth, sixth, eighth,
ninth, and tenth causes of action of the TAC as to the County and the
“Department of the Coroner,” with leave to amend.
In addition, the City demurred to the TAC’s first cause of action for
failure to conduct a homicide investigation and wellness check, second cause of
action for negligent investigation, third cause of action for negligent
investigation and failure to render aid, fifth cause of action for negligent
hiring, sixth cause of action for violation of California constitutional rights,
eighth cause of action for intentional and negligent infliction of emotional
distress, ninth cause of action (untitled), tenth cause of action for
constructive fraud-intentional misrepresentation – concealment, twelfth cause
of action for violation of California’s Unruh Civil Rights Act, thirteenth
cause of action for violation of California’s Unruh Civil Rights Act, and
fifteenth cause of action for violation of Government
Code section 11135. (See May 1, 2024 Order; County’s 12/20/2023 RJN,
¶ 1, Ex. A.) On May 1, 2024, the Court issued an Order sustaining the City’s
demurrer to the first, second, third, fifth, sixth, eighth, ninth, tenth,
twelfth, and thirteenth causes of action of the TAC, with leave to amend. The
Court overruled the City’s demurrer to the fifteenth cause of action of the
TAC.
On May 17, 2024, Carolyn Tracie Love, an individual, and on behalf of
Trashawn Alton Tillet (“Plaintiff”) filed a Fourth Amended Complaint (“FAC”).[2] The
FAC alleges causes of action for[3] (1) failure to conduct a homicide investigation and
wellness check, (2) negligent investigation, (3) negligent investigation and
failure to render aid, (5) negligent hiring, (6) violation of California
constitutional rights, (7) violation of 42 U.S.C. § 1983, (8) intentional and negligent infliction of
emotional distress, (9) [untitled], (10) constructive fraud – intentional
misrepresentation – concealment, (11) negligent investigation and failure to
perform welfare check, (13) violation of California’s Unruh Civil Rights Act,
(14) “42. U.S.C. - 1083 – Monell Claim – failure
to train,” and (15) violation of Government Code §
11135.[4]
The County now demurs to the third, fifth, sixth, eighth, ninth, and
tenth causes of action of the FAC. In addition, the City now demurs to the
first, second, third, fifth, sixth, seventh, eighth, ninth, tenth, eleventh,
thirteenth, fourteenth, and fifteenth causes of action of the FAC. 
Carolyn
Tracie Love (herein, “Love”) opposes both.[5]
Allegations of the
FAC 
In the FAC, Plaintiff
alleges, inter alia, that on October 20, 2021, Plaintiff arrived at the
home of her son, Trashawn Alton Tillet (herein, the “Decedent”). (FAC, ¶ 1.)
Plaintiff alleges that the Decedent’s eyes were closed and that he did not
respond to his name. (FAC, ¶ 8.) Plaintiff alleges the Decedent had contusions
on “the right-side temple above his ear…” (FAC, ¶ 10.) Plaintiff alleges that
“[m]ultiple bottles of alcohol were everywhere in his living room as if there
had been a party,” and that “Plaintiff believes that the alcohol bottles were
staged and planted by a violent perpetrator to district attention from a crime
and crime scene.” (FAC, ¶¶ 5, 14.) Plaintiff alleges that paramedics arrived at
the apartment. (FAC, p. 7:5.) Plaintiff alleges that she “never observed either
paramedic deploy life saving measures.” (FAC, ¶ 48.) Plaintiff further alleges
that one paramedic said, “sorry he been dead for maybe a few days.” (FAC, ¶ 56.)
Plaintiff further alleges, inter alia, that “LAPD officers…never
thoroughly investigated…whether [the Decedent] was the victim of a homicide.” (FAC,
¶ 185.) 
In addition, Plaintiff
alleges that “there is substantial evidence that the coroner mixed up the
findings of a different deceased.” (FAC, ¶ 322.) Plaintiff further alleges that
“[it] appears that [the Decedent’s] body may have been cremated. Upon
information and belief, the coroner gave the funeral possession of the wrong
body.” (FAC, ¶ 386.)
The County’s
Demurrer 
A.    Legal Standard
A demurrer can be used
only to challenge defects that appear on the face of the pleading under attack
or from matters outside the pleading that are judicially noticeable. (Blank
v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311,
318.) “To survive a demurrer, the
complaint need only allege facts sufficient to state a cause of action; each
evidentiary fact that might eventually form part of the plaintiff’s proof need
not be alleged.” (C.A. v. William S. Hart
Union High School Dist. (2012) 53
Cal.4th 861, 872.) For the purpose of testing the
sufficiency of the cause of action, the demurrer admits the truth of all material facts properly pleaded. (Aubry v. Tri-City Hospital Dist. (1992) 2 Cal.4th 962, 966-967.) A demurrer “does not admit contentions, deductions or conclusions
of fact or law.” (Daar v. Yellow Cab Co. (1967) 67 Cal.2d 695, 713.)
 
B.    
Third, Fifth, Sixth, Eighth, Ninth, and Tenth Causes
of Action as to Plaintiff’s Claims on Behalf of the Decedent 
 The County asserts that “the
claims that Plaintiff is asserting (presumably) on behalf of Decedent fail
because there are no allegations against the County relating to conduct
occurring before Decedent’s death, and Plaintiff, proceeding in pro se, cannot
represent the Decedent.” (Demurrer at p. 12:9-12.) As set forth above, the FAC
alleges, inter alia, that “Plaintiff CAROLYN TRACIE LOVE, an individual,
and on behalf of TRASHAWN ALTON TILLETT, her deceased son by and her attorney
alleges as follows against Defendants Los Angeles County Coroner’s, Los Angeles
City Fire Dept, Los Angeles City Police Dept does 1 to 10.” (FAC, p. 1.) 
The County cites to People v. Runyan (2012) 54 Cal.4th 849, 861-862, where the California
Supreme Court noted that “[n]o civil
claim can be asserted, on a decedent’s personal behalf, for injury or damage to
the decedent that occurs, or accrues, after the decedent has died. The
governing statutes recognize two, and only two, mutually exclusive types of
actions that may be brought, or maintained, in consequence of a person’s death.
First, a cause of action in favor of a person survives the person’s death, and
may be commenced, or continued, by the decedent’s personal representative, or,
if none, by the decedent’s successor in interest. However, the damages
recoverable in such an action are limited to the loss or damage that the
decedent sustained or incurred before death…”
(Internal quotations and citations omitted.) 
The County asserts that “[h]ere, the
factual basis of the County’s wrongdoing, as alleged in the Fourth Amended
Complaint, relates solely to conduct occurring after Decedent’s death – namely,
the purported negligent investigation of Decedent’s cause of death and the
mishandling of his remains…” (Demurrer at p. 12:17-20, emphasis omitted, citing
FAC, ¶¶ 196-208.) 
The
County asserts that “[b]ecause there are no allegations against the County
relating to conduct occurring before Decedent’s death, no claim accrued as to
Decedent against the County before his death and each of the claims asserted on
his behalf as to the County are properly dismissed.” (Demurrer at p. 12:21-24,
emphasis omitted.) Love does not appear to dispute this point in the
opposition.[6] 
The County also asserts that “Plaintiff, who is not an attorney,
cannot represent the interests of Decedent’s estate proceeding pro se.”
(Demurrer at p. 13:3-4.) The caption page of the FAC lists “Carolyn Tracie
Love” above “Attorneys for CAROLYN TRACIE LOVE, (pro per) Individually.” (FAC,
p. 2.) However, as discussed, the FAC also alleges, inter alia, that
“Plaintiff CAROLYN TRACIE LOVE, an individual, and on behalf of TRASHAWN
ALTON TILLETT, her deceased son by and her attorney alleges as
follows against Defendants Los Angeles County Coroner’s, Los Angeles City Fire
Dept, Los Angeles City Police Dept does 1 to 10.” (FAC, p. 1, emphasis added.)
Love does not appear to dispute that she has not obtained an attorney.
The County cites to Hansen v. Hansen (2003) 114 Cal.App.4th
618, 621, where the
Court of Appeal noted that “[a] person
who is unlicensed to practice law and who represents a decedent’s estate cannot
appear in propria persona on behalf of the estate in matters outside the
probate proceedings. Since the passage of the State
Bar Act in 1927, persons may represent their own interests in legal
proceedings, but may not represent the interests of another unless they are
active members of the State Bar.” (Internal citations omitted.) 
Accordingly, in
light of the foregoing, the Court sustains the County’s demurrer to the third,
fifth, sixth, eighth, ninth, and tenth causes of action of the FAC, to the
extent these causes of action are alleged by Plaintiff on behalf of the
Decedent. 
C.     Third,
Fifth, and Eighth Causes of Action 
Next, the County asserts that “Plaintiff’s
third, fifth, and eighth causes of action fail to plead the requisite statutory
provision imposing a mandatory duty on the County for liability under California Government Code § 815.6.” (Demurrer at p.
13:6-8.) Plaintiff’s third cause of action is for “negligent investigation and
failure to render aid,” the fifth cause of action is for “negligent hiring,”
and the eighth cause of action is for “intentional and negligent infliction of
emotional distress.” 
The County notes that “‘[a] public entity is not liable for an injury,’ ‘[e]xcept
as otherwise provided by statute.’ (Gov. Code, §
815.)…In other words, direct tort
liability of public entities must be based on a specific statute declaring them
to be liable, or at least creating some specific duty of care…” (Eastburn v.
Regional Fire Protection Authority (2003)
31 Cal.4th 1175, 1183.) In Plaintiff’s third and fifth causes of
action, she alleges that “Defendants owed her a duty pursuant to Government Code section 815.6…” (FAC, ¶¶ 398, 401.)
In the eighth cause of action, Plaintiff alleges that “Defendant Los Angeles
Coroner’s Department owed her a duty pursuant to Government
Code section 815.6…” (FAC, ¶ 419.) 
Government Code section 815.6 provides that “[w]here a public entity is under a mandatory duty imposed
by an enactment that is designed to protect against the risk of a particular
kind of injury, the public entity is liable for an injury of that kind
proximately caused by its failure to discharge the duty unless the public
entity establishes that it exercised reasonable diligence to discharge the
duty.” The County notes that “[a] plaintiff
seeking to hold a public entity liable under Government
Code section 815.6 must specifically identify the statute or regulation
alleged to create a mandatory duty.” (In re Groundwater Cases (2007) 154 Cal.App.4th 659, 689.) As noted by the County, Plaintiff’s
third, fifth, and eighth causes of action do not appear to identify any
specific statute, enactment, or provision that Plaintiff claims imposed a
mandatory duty on the County.
In light of the foregoing, the Court sustains the County’s demurrer to
the third, fifth, and eighth causes of action of the FAC. 
D.    Sixth Cause of Action 
The sixth cause of action of
the FAC is for “violation of California Constitutional rights.”
This cause of action alleges that “Defendants’
actions violated, and continue to violate, Plaintiff’s rights under Article I, Sections 1, 2, 3, 7, 13 and 15 of the
California Constitution.” (FAC, ¶ 408.) Plaintiff alleges that Defendants
“violate[d] her due process right to a governmental investigation,” “violate[d]
her due process right to an unbiased governmental investigation,” and
“violate[d] her equal protection and/or due process right not to be singled out
for irrational and/or arbitrary discriminatory treatment.” (FAC, ¶ 407.) 
            The
County cites to authority supporting its assertion that Sections
1, 2, and 7 of Article I of the California Constitution do not provide for
a private right of action for damages. The County cites to Clausing v. San Francisco Unified
School Dist. (1990) 221 Cal.App.3d
1224, 1237, footnote 6, where the Court of
Appeal noted that “article I, section 1, of the California Constitution…states:
‘All people are by nature free and independent and have inalienable
rights. Among these are enjoying and
defending life and liberty, acquiring, possessing, and protecting property, and
pursuing and obtaining safety, happiness, and privacy.’ Clearly, although
safety and happiness are inalienable rights, this provision of the Constitution
does not establish the means whereby they may be enjoyed. No case has ever held
that this provision enunciating the inalienable right to obtain safety and happiness
is self-executing in the sense that it gives rise, in and of itself, to a
private right of action for damages or an affirmative duty on the part of the
state to take particular steps to guarantee the enjoyment of safety or
happiness by all citizens.” The County
also cites to Degrassi v. Cook (2002) 29 Cal.4th 333, 342, where the California Supreme Court “conclude[d]
that there is no indication in the language of article
I, section 2(a), nor any evidence in the history of that provision, from
which we may find, within that provision, an implied right to seek damages for
a violation of the free speech right set out therein.” In addition,
the County cites to Katzberg v.
Regents of University of California (2002)
29 Cal.4th 300, 324, where the California Supreme
Court “conclude[d] that there is no indication in the language of
article I, section 7(a), nor any evidence in the
history of that section, from which we may find, within that provision, an
implied right to seek damages for a violation of the due process liberty
interest.” The Court notes that Love’s opposition to the
County’s demurrer does not appear to address this legal authority. 
            As
to Article I, Sections 3, 13 and 15, the County
asserts that “[n]one of these provisions of the California Constitution
provide Plaintiff a ‘due process’ right to a ‘governmental investigation’ by
the County’s DMEC as to the cause of Decedent’s death.” (Demurrer at p. 15:17-19.)
Indeed, as noted by the County, Section 3 concerns
“[a]ssembly, petition, open meetings,” Section 13
concerns “search and seizure,” and Section 15
concerns “safeguards in criminal prosecutions.” 
(Cal. Const., art. I, § 3; Cal. Const., art.
I, § 13; Cal. Const., art. I, § 15.) Thus,
the Court does not see how these provisions are relevant to Plaintiff’s claims
in the FAC. 
The County
also asserts that “[n]or has Plaintiff alleged any facts to support her
allegation that she was ‘singled out for irrational and/or arbitrary
discriminatory treatment’ by the County.” (Demurrer at p. 15:19-21; see FAC,
¶ 407.) Love’s opposition to the County’s demurrer does not appear to address
this point. 
            In light of the foregoing, the Court
sustains the County’s demurrer to the sixth cause of action of the FAC. 
E.     Ninth Cause of Action 
As noted by the County, the
ninth cause of action of the FAC is untitled, but alleges that “Plaintiff, as
DECEDENT’S successor in interest, seek [sic] all damages accruing to DECEDENT
in a survival action, pursuant to Code of Civil
Procedure section 377.34.” (FAC, ¶ 425.) The County asserts that “there
are no recoverable damages on behalf of Decedent against the County given that
he was already deceased when the County’s DMEC responded.” (Demurrer at p. 17:15-17.)  
As noted by the County, Code of Civil Procedure section 377.34, subdivision
(a) provides that “[i]n an action or proceeding by a decedent’s personal
representative or successor in interest on the decedent’s cause of action, the
damages recoverable are limited to the loss or damage that the decedent
sustained or incurred before death, including any penalties or punitive or
exemplary damages that the decedent would have been entitled to recover had the
decedent lived, and do not include damages for pain, suffering, or
disfigurement.” In the
opposition, Love does not appear to address the County’s assertion that there
are no recoverable damages under the ninth cause of action given that the
Decedent “was already deceased when the County’s DMEC responded.”
(Demurrer at p. 17:16-17.) 
Based on the foregoing, the
Court sustains the County’s demurrer to the ninth cause of action of the FAC. 
F.     Tenth Cause of Action 
Plaintiff’s tenth cause of
action is for “constructive fraud – intentional misrepresentation –
concealment.” In the tenth cause of action, Plaintiff alleges, inter alia,
that “Defendants…intentionally misrepresented the status of decedents medical
exam and the location of his remains…” (FAC, ¶ 427.) The County asserts that
the tenth cause of action fails because “Plaintiff fails to identify any
statutory basis for imposing direct liability as to the County for this claim.”
(Demurrer at p. 17:25-26.) As discussed, pursuant to Government
Code section 815, “[e]xcept as otherwise provided
by statute: (a) A public entity is not liable for an injury, whether such injury
arises out of an act or omission of the public entity or a public employee or
any other person…” Indeed, the tenth cause of action does not allege
any statutory basis for imposing liability on the County as to this cause of
action.  
In light of the foregoing, the Court sustains the County’s demurrer to
the tenth cause of action of the FAC. 
G.    Claims Against the
“Department of the Coroner” 
Lastly, the County asserts that “[i]n the Fourth Amended Complaint, it
is unclear whether Plaintiff is separately naming the ‘Department of the
Coroner’ as a defendant.” (Demurrer at p. 18:23-24.) The Court agrees that this
is unclear, as the caption page of the FAC lists, inter alia, “Los
Angeles County, Department of the Coroner.”
The County asserts that “to the extent the Department of Medical
Examiner-Coroner is separately named, it should be dismissed as a duplicative
defendant.” (Demurrer at p. 19:11-12.) The County cites to City of Tracy
v. Cohen (2016) 3
Cal.App.5th 852, footnote 1, where the Court of Appeal noted that “[w]e again adjust the appellate title in one of these
appeals, putting the official capacity cart (‘Successor Agency, etc.’) back
behind the party name horse (‘City of Tracy’), and deleting the Department of
Finance as a party, a redundant defendant.” The County’s counsel also
states in his supporting declaration that “Plaintiff agreed…that she did not
intend to separately name the ‘Department of Coroner’ as a Defendant.” (Bustos
Decl., ¶ 5.) This does not appear to be disputed by Love in her opposition to
the County’s demurrer.  
In light of the foregoing, the Court sustains the County’s demurrer to the
third, fifth, sixth, eighth, ninth, and tenth causes of action of the FAC
against the “Department of the Coroner,” to the extent these causes of action
are alleged against any purported separate entity named “Department of the
Coroner.” 
 
The City’s
Demurrer 
A.    Legal Standard
A demurrer can be used
only to challenge defects that appear on the face of the pleading under attack
or from matters outside the pleading that are judicially noticeable. (Blank
v. Kirwan, supra, 39 Cal.3d
at p. 318.) “To survive a demurrer, the
complaint need only allege facts sufficient to state a cause of action; each
evidentiary fact that might eventually form part of the plaintiff’s proof need
not be alleged.” (C.A. v. William S. Hart
Union High School Dist., supra,
53 Cal.4th at p. 872.) For the purpose of testing the
sufficiency of the cause of action, the demurrer admits the truth of all material facts properly pleaded. (Aubry
v. Tri-City Hospital Dist., supra, 2 Cal.4th at pp. 966-967.) A demurrer “does not admit contentions, deductions or conclusions
of fact or law.” (Daar v. Yellow Cab Co., supra, 67 Cal.2d at p. 713.)
 
B.    
First, Second, Third,
Fifth, Sixth, Seventh Eighth, Ninth, Tenth, Eleventh, Thirteenth, Fourteenth, and
Fifteenth Causes of Action as to Plaintiff’s Claims on Behalf of the
Decedent
The City demurs
to the first, second, third, fifth, sixth, seventh, eighth, ninth, tenth,
eleventh, thirteenth, fourteenth, and fifteenth causes of action of the FAC. As
discussed, the FAC alleges, inter alia, that “Plaintiff CAROLYN TRACIE
LOVE, an individual, and on behalf of TRASHAWN ALTON TILLETT, her deceased
son by and her attorney alleges as follows against Defendants Los Angeles
County Coroner’s, Los Angeles City Fire Dept, Los Angeles City Police Dept does
1 to 10.” (FAC, p. 1, emphasis added.) 
The City argues that Plaintiff cannot assert any causes of action or
seek any damages on behalf of the Decedent, as Plaintiff’s “alleged status as a
trustee does not alter the fact that Plaintiff is prohibited from bringing
these claims as a pro per.” (Demurrer at p. 9:18-19.) As discussed, “[a] person who is unlicensed to practice law and who
represents a decedent’s estate cannot appear in propria persona on behalf of
the estate in matters outside the probate proceedings. Since the passage of the State Bar Act in
1927, persons may represent their own interests in legal proceedings, but may
not represent the interests of another unless they are active members of the
State Bar.” (Hansen v. Hansen, supra, 114
Cal.App.4th at p. 621 [internal citations omitted].) In
light of the foregoing, the Court sustains the City’s demurrer to first,
second, third, fifth, sixth, seventh, eighth, ninth, tenth, eleventh,
thirteenth, fourteenth, and fifteenth causes of action of the FAC, to the
extent these causes of action are alleged by Plaintiff on behalf of the
Decedent. 
 
C.    
Federal Causes of Action 
Next, the City asserts that “the federal causes of action are barred
by res judicata…” (Demurrer at p. 10:8-9.) It appears the “federal causes of
action” the City is referring to are the seventh and fourteenth causes of
action of the FAC, as the City asserts that “[i]n meet and confer
communications with Plaintiff, it was informed that the Seventh and Fourteenth
causes of action were being withdrawn.” (Demurer at p. 10:24-25.) The seventh
cause of action of the FAC is for violation of 42
U.S.C. § 1983. The fourteenth cause of action is for “42 U.S.C. – 1983 – Monell Claim – Failure to Train.” 
The City cites to Mycogen Corp. v. Monsanto Co. (2002) 28 Cal.4th 888,
896, where the
California Supreme Court notes that “‘Res
judicata’ describes the preclusive effect of a final judgment on the merits.
Res judicata, or claim preclusion, prevents relitigation of the same cause of action
in a second suit between the same parties or parties in privity with them.” The Mycogen Court noted that “[a] clear and predictable res judicata doctrine promotes
judicial economy. Under this doctrine, all claims based on the same cause
of action must be decided in a single suit; if not brought initially, they may
not be raised at a later date. Res judicata precludes piecemeal litigation by
splitting a single cause of action or relitigation of the same cause of action
on a different legal theory or for different relief.” (Id. at
p. 897 [internal quotations omitted].) 
As set forth
above, the November 15, 2023 Order in the subject Federal Action
provides, inter alia, as follows: 
 
“After
Defendants moved to dismiss her Second Amended Complaint (SAC), Plaintiff, now
proceeding pro se, filed an untimely Third Amended Complaint (TAC) nearly two
weeks after her opposition deadline had passed. Dkt. No. 65. The TAC
significantly expands on her earlier pleadings, spanning 68 pages and alleging
24 causes of action…including 13 federal claims. Id.
The Court allowed the filing of the TAC and denied as moot the motions to
dismiss the SAC. Dkt. No. 67. The City and County now move to dismiss Plaintiff’s
TAC for failure to state a claim. Dkt. Nos. 70, 71. The Court
finds this matter suitable for decision without oral argument and vacates the
December 1, 2023 motion hearing. Fed. R. Civ. P. 78;
L.R. 7-15. Because Plaintiff has not alleged any plausible federal
claims, the Court dismisses her federal causes of action and remands the
remaining claims to state court.” (November 15, 2023 Order, p. 2.) 
As also discussed, the November 15, 2023 Order in the Federal Action
concludes that “[a]ccordingly, the Court GRANTS IN PART Defendants’ motions to
dismiss, and Plaintiff’s federal claims in Counts 7, 11, 14, and 16-25 are
DISMISSED on the merits with prejudice...” (November 15, 2023 Order, p. 8.) The
Court notes that Plaintiff’s TAC contained, inter alia, a seventh cause
of action for violation of 42 U.S.C. § 1983, and a
fourteenth cause of action for “42 U.S.C. – 1983 –
Monell Claim – Failure to Train.” (County’s 12/20/23 Request for Judicial
Notice, ¶ 1, Ex. A.) In the opposition, Love does not appear to dispute that
the seventh and fourteenth causes of action in her FAC are barred.  
The City’s counsel also indicates in her supporting declaration that
“Plaintiff represented that she would be withdrawing/removing federal causes of
action and identified the Seventh…and Fourteenth causes of action.” (Hunter
Decl., ¶ 5.) This does not appear to be disputed by Love in her opposition. 
Based on the foregoing, the Court sustains the City’s demurrer to the
seventh and fourteenth causes of action of the FAC. 
 
D.   
Second, Third, Fifth, and Eighth Causes of Action 
Next, the City asserts that the FAC “does not allege any statutory
authority on which to bring any state law claims against the City, any of its
departments or any of its employees.” (Demurrer at p. 12:4-5.) As discussed, “‘[a] public entity is not liable
for an injury,’ ‘[e]xcept as otherwise provided by statute.’ (Gov. Code, § 815.)…In other words, direct tort liability of public entities must be
based on a specific statute declaring them to be liable, or at least creating
some specific duty of care…” (Eastburn v. Regional
Fire Protection Authority, supra,
31 Cal.4th at p. 1183.)
Plaintiff’s second cause of action for negligent investigation, third
cause of action for negligent investigation and failure to render aid, and
fifth cause of action for negligent hiring allege that “Plaintiff…contends that
Defendants owed her a duty pursuant to Government Code
section 815.6…” (FAC, ¶¶ 392, 398, 401.) In addition, Plaintiff’s eighth
cause of action for intentional and negligent infliction of emotional distress
alleges that “Plaintiff contends that the Defendant Los Angeles Coroner’s
Department owed her a duty pursuant to Government Code
section 815.6…” (FAC, ¶ 419.) As set forth above, “[a] plaintiff seeking to
hold a public entity liable under Government Code
section 815.6 must specifically identify the statute or regulation alleged
to create a mandatory duty.” (In re Groundwater Cases,
supra, 154 Cal.App.4th at p. 689.) Plaintiff’s second, third,
fifth, and eighth causes of action do not appear to identify
any specific statute or regulation purportedly imposing a mandatory duty on the
City. 
Based on the foregoing, the Court sustains the City’s demurrer to the
second, third, fifth, and eighth causes of action of the FAC. 
E.     First and Eleventh
Causes of Action 
The City also appears to assert that certain causes of action,
including the first and eleventh causes of action of the FAC, fail because
“there is no right to police services, a police investigation or a particular
type of investigation under Section 845,” and
because “Section 820.2…affords immunity for the
discretionary manner in which an investigation is conducted.” (Demurrer at p.
11:21-23.) Government Code section 845 provides in part that “[n]either a public entity nor a public employee is liable
for failure to establish a police department or otherwise to provide police
protection service or, if police protection service is provided, for failure to
provide sufficient police protection service.” Government
Code section 820.2 provides that “[e]xcept as otherwise provided by statute, a public employee is
not liable for an injury resulting from his act or omission where the act or
omission was the result of the exercise of the discretion vested in him,
whether or not such discretion be abused.”

Plaintiff’s first cause of action for “failure to conduct a homicide
investigation and wellness check” alleges that “Defendants owed her a duty
pursuant to Government Code section 815.6,” and
that “Defendant breached that duty.” (FAC, ¶¶ 388-389.)[7]
Plaintiff’s eleventh cause of action is for negligent investigation and failure
to perform welfare check. In this cause of action, Plaintiff alleges that “[o]n
October 21, 2021, Defendant LAPD breached the mandated duty to perform a
competent and thorough welfare check and investigation of the circumstances
surroundings Trashawan[’s] death.” (FAC, ¶ 436.) Plaintiff further alleges that
“Trashawn was left to die without medical treatment from the defendant during a
time of crisis.” (FAC, ¶ 438.) 
In the opposition, Love does not appear to dispute that her first and
eleventh causes of action are barred by Government
Code section 845 or Government Code section 820.2.

Based on the foregoing, the Court sustains the City’s demurrer to the first
and eleventh causes of action of the FAC.[8] 
F.     Sixth Cause of Action 
As set forth above,
Plaintiff’s sixth cause of action alleges that “Defendants’ actions violated,
and continue to violate, Plaintiff’s rights under Article
I, Sections 1, 2, 3, 7, 13 and 15 of the California Constitution.” (FAC, ¶
408.) Plaintiff alleges that Defendants “violate[d] her due process right to a
governmental investigation,” “violate[d] her due process right to an unbiased
governmental investigation,” and “violate[d] her equal protection and/or due
process right not to be singled out for irrational and/or arbitrary
discriminatory treatment.” (FAC, ¶ 407)
Article I,
Section 1 of the California Constitution provides that “[a]ll people
are by nature free and independent and have inalienable rights. Among these are
enjoying and defending life and liberty, acquiring, possessing, and protecting
property, and pursuing and obtaining safety, happiness, and privacy.” (Cal. Const., art. I § 1.) The City asserts that “Plaintiff
has not pled sufficient facts to support her claim for violation of her state constitutional
right to privacy.” (Demurrer at p. 16:8-9.) Love does not appear to
specifically address this point in her opposition to the City’s demurrer.  
The City also cites to Julian v. Mission Community
Hospital (2017) 11 Cal.App.5th
360, 391, where the Court of Appeal found
that “[t]here is no cause of action for
damages for alleged violations of California
Constitution, article I, section 2, subdivision (a) (freedom of speech), article I, section 3, subdivision (a) (right to
petition the government)…or article I, section 7,
subdivision (a) (due process and equal protection), when such an action is
not tied to an established common law or statutory action, and Julian alleges no such cause of action.” Here, Love’s opposition to the City’s demurrer
does not appear to demonstrate how she may allege a cause of action for damages
for a violation of Article I, Sections 2, 3, or 7
of the California Constitution. 
As to Article
I, Sections 13 and 15 of the California Constitution, the City asserts that
these sections are not applicable to the facts of this case. Indeed, as
discussed, Section 13 concerns “search and
seizure,” and Section 15 concerns “safeguards in
criminal prosecutions.”  (Cal. Const.,
art. I, § 13; Cal. Const., art. I, § 15.)
            In light of the foregoing, the Court
sustains the City’s demurrer to the sixth cause of action of the FAC. 
 
 
G.    Ninth Cause of Action 
As discussed, the ninth cause
of action of the FAC is untitled, but alleges that “Plaintiff, as DECEDENT’S
successor in interest, seek [sic] all damages accruing to DECEDENT in a
survival action, pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure
section 377.34.” (FAC, ¶ 425.) 
In the demurrer, the City
asserts that “Plaintiff’s Ninth claim for damages fails as a matter of
law, as it is essentially a survival action, which is a claim personal to
Tillet and not to Plaintiff. Plaintiff, who is pro per, cannot bring any claims
on behalf of Tillet, and there is no legally cognizable right to bring this
claim.” (Demurrer at p. iii:3-6.) As discussed, the caption page of the FAC states “Carolyn
Tracie Love” above “Attorneys for CAROLYN TRACIE LOVE, (pro
per).” (FAC, p. 1.) Plaintiff does
not appear to state that she obtained counsel. 
As set forth above, “[a] person who is
unlicensed to practice law and who represents a decedent’s estate cannot appear
in propria persona on behalf of the estate in matters outside the probate
proceedings. Since the passage of the State
Bar Act in 1927, persons may represent their own interests in legal
proceedings, but may not represent the interests of another unless they are
active members of the State Bar.” (Hansen v. Hansen, supra, 114 Cal.App.4th at p. 621 [internal citations
omitted].) 
In light of the foregoing,
the Court sustains the City’s demurrer to the ninth cause of action of the FAC.

H.    Tenth Cause of Action 
Plaintiff’s tenth cause of
action is for “constructive fraud – intentional misrepresentation –
concealment.” In the tenth cause of action, Plaintiff alleges, inter alia,
that “Defendants…intentionally misrepresented the status of decedents medical
exam and the location of his remains…” (FAC, ¶ 427.) Plaintiff further alleges
that “Defendants…knowingly failed to disclose to Plaintiff important
fact(s) known to them about DECEDENT to with the [sic] fact that DECEDENT’S
records were misidentified with those of Lance Edward William’s…” (FAC, ¶ 428.)

In the demurrer, the City
asserts that the tenth cause of action “appears to be directed to
conduct allegedly committed by the County defendants.” (Demurrer at p. 17:26.)
The City asserts that “[t]here are no factual allegations as to anything that
the City, its departments or its employees did or did not do. As such, this
claim is uncertain and fails as to the City defendants.” (Demurrer at pp.
17:27-18:2.) Love does not appear to respond to or dispute this point in the
opposition. Indeed, the tenth cause of action does not appear to reference the
“City” specifically.
In light of the foregoing, the Court sustains the City’s demurrer to
the tenth cause of action of the FAC. 
I.       Thirteenth Cause of Action 
The City also asserts
that Plaintiff’s “Unruh Civil Rights Act cause of action fails as a matter of
law.” (Demurrer at p. 14:20.) Plaintiff’s thirteenth cause of action for violation of
California’s Unruh Civil Rights Act alleges, inter alia, that “Trashawn
is a gay black man with HIV which constitutes a disability that limits a major
life activity.” (FAC, ¶ 444.) Plaintiff alleges that “Defendant’s conduct
violated the Unruh Civil Rights Act by denying (or aiding or inciting the
denial of) Trashawn’s rights to full and equal use of the accommodations,
advantages, facilities, privileges, or services Defendant’s [sic] offers to
patients by denying Trashawn adequate care based on his disability.” (FAC, ¶
445.) 
            In the demurrer, the City asserts, inter
alia, that “[t]he allegations in this claim also are conclusory at best,
which does not satisfy the specific pleading standard as to public entities and
public employees.” (Demurrer at p. 14:23-25.) Indeed,
Plaintiff does not appear to specify in the thirteenth cause of action how the
City allegedly “[denied] Trashawn adequate care based on his
disability.” (FAC, ¶ 445.) In Gates v. Superior Court (1995) 32 Cal.App.4th
481, 493-494, cited by the City, the Court of Appeal noted
that “because under the Tort Claims Act all
governmental tort liability is based on statute, the general rule that
statutory causes of action must be pleaded with particularity is applicable.
Thus, to state a cause of action against a public entity, every fact material
to the existence of its statutory liability must be pleaded with
particularity.” (Internal quotations omitted.) Love does not appear to
respond to this point in the opposition. 
In light of the
foregoing, the Court sustains the City’s demurrer to the thirteenth cause of
action of the FAC.  
J.       Fifteenth Cause of
Action 
Plaintiffs’ fifteenth cause of action is for violation of Government Code section 11135. 
Government Code section 11135, subdivision (a) provides that “[n]o person in the State of
California shall, on the basis of sex, race, color, religion, ancestry,
national origin, ethnic group identification, age, mental disability, physical
disability, medical condition, genetic information, marital status, or sexual
orientation, be unlawfully denied full and equal access to the benefits of, or
be unlawfully subjected to discrimination under, any program or activity that
is conducted, operated, or administered by the state or by any state agency, is
funded directly by the state, or receives any financial assistance from the
state. Notwithstanding Section 11000, this section
applies to the California State University.” 
            In the FAC, Plaintiff alleges that “Defendant’s
conduct denied Trashawn full and equal access to the services, programs, and
activities offered by Defendant to patients at Defendant’s [sic] in violation
of Cal. Gov’t Code Section 11135.” (FAC, ¶ 456.) Plaintiff
further alleges that “Defendant’s conduct also denied Carolyn, who is
‘associated with’ Trashawn under the meaning of the statute by virtue of the
fact that she is the mother of Trashawn, a qualified individual with a
disability within the meaning of Section 11135(c)(1),
full and equal access to the services, programs, and activities offered by
Defendant in violation of Section 11135.” (FAC, ¶
457.) 
            In the demurrer, the City notes that “[t]his
claim contains no factual allegations as to which state funded programs and
services Plaintiff was denied access or how she was denied access by virtue of
Defendant City’s alleged conduct in this incident.” (Demurrer at p. 18:11-13.) Loves does not appear to respond to or
dispute this point in the opposition. 
            The City also notes that Government
Code section 11135 is contained within “Chapter 1” concerning “State
Agencies.” The City asserts that Section 11135
accordingly does not pertain to the City. Love also does not appear to respond
to this point in the opposition. 
            Based on the foregoing, the Court sustains the City’s
demurrer to the fifteenth cause of action of the FAC. 
Conclusion
Based on the foregoing, the
Court sustains the County’s demurrer to the third, fifth, sixth, eighth,
ninth, and tenth causes of action of the FAC as to the County and the
“Department of the Coroner,” without leave to amend. As discussed, the Court
sustained the County’s previous demurrer to the TAC in its entirety. (See
May 1, 2024 Order.) In addition, Love has not proffered any basis for any amendment to cure the foregoing
deficiencies. Accordingly, the Court finds that it is appropriate to sustain
the County’s instant demurrer without leave to amend.¿ 
            In addition, based on the foregoing,
the Court sustains the City’s demurrer to the first, second, third, fifth,
sixth, seventh, eighth, ninth, tenth, eleventh, thirteenth, fourteenth, and fifteenth
causes of action of the FAC. As discussed, the Court sustained the City’s
previous demurrer to the TAC, except for the City’s demurrer to the fifteenth
cause of action of the TAC. (See May 1, 2024 Order.) In addition, Love has not proffered any basis for any amendment to cure the foregoing
deficiencies. Accordingly, the Court finds that it is appropriate to sustain
the City’s instant demurrer without leave to amend.¿ 
            In light of the foregoing, the Court orders
the City to file and serve a proposed judgment of dismissal within 30 days of
the date of this order. (¿Donald v. Cafe Royale,
Inc. (1990) 218 Cal.App.3d
168, 186 [“An order sustaining a demurrer without leave to amend is not
a final judgment; a judgment of dismissal follows such an order as a matter of
course.”]¿.)¿¿
            As to the County, the Court notes that the seventh cause
of action of the FAC is alleged against “all Defendants.” However, the County
did not demur to this cause of action. In his supporting declaration, the
County’s counsel states that “[d]uring the meet and confer,
Plaintiff agreed to the dismissal of the Seventh Cause of Action…” (Bustos
Decl., ¶ 5.) However, it does not appear that any request for dismissal has
been filed as to the seventh cause of action of the FAC. The Court also notes
that the first, thirteenth, and fifteenth causes of action of the FAC do not
appear to specify which defendant(s) such causes of action are alleged against.
The County does not demur to these causes of action, and the County’s demurrer
does not appear to discuss them. 
            In light of the foregoing, the Court
orders the County to file and serve its answer to the FAC within 10 days of the
date of this Order.¿¿
The City is ordered to
give notice of this Order.  
 
DATED:  July 12, 2024                            ________________________________
Hon. Teresa A.
Beaudet
Judge, Los
Angeles Superior Court
 


