  Case Number:  22TRCV00077    Hearing Date:   May 1, 2024    Dept:  8 TENTATIVE  RULING   Date:                                     May 1, 2024 Case No.:                           22TRCV00077 Plaintiffs:                            LAT Group, Inc. and Qiandai Zhao Defendants:                      Manhong Zhang, Sunshine  Investment, Inc., Estate of Jacky Lo, Torrance Family Trust, et. al, Defendants Application:                      Application for Default Judgment  by the Court Tentative Ruling:             Deny  the default judgment without prejudice                   In this  matter set for a Case Management Conference on May 1, 2024, Plaintiff have a  pending application for a Court Judgment by default.  The proposed money judgment is for over $6  Million and against Defendant Harbor Green Grain, LP, and separately against other  defendants as well based on the same evidence.    Plaintiffs’ evidence submitted in  support of the claimed default judgments as to each of the defaulting  defendants is the Declaration of Qiandai Zhao, who asserts she is the owner of  LAT Group Inc.  The evidence is  insufficient for the Court to enter the requested money judgment, for the  following reasons: 1.       The Zhao Declaration in paragraph 3 asserts that  in November of 2020, Zhao responded to a WeChat group chat message by  “promising to wire $50,000 from her Bank of America account.  Lo did not pay back.”  The evidence before the Court does not show  that Zhao did in fact wire $50,000 or some other amount to the late Jacky  Lo.  There is no bank account statement,  no confirmation of wire transfer, no attached copies of WeChat messages, nor  any other corroboration for the inference Plaintiffs seek for the Court to draw  from paragraph 3 that Zhao sent any amount of money to Jacky Lo. 2.       The Zhao Declaration in paragraph 4 asserts that  in December of 2020, Plaintiffs, Jacky Lo and Sunshine Investment signed a  cooperation agreement, but that agreement is not attached to the  declaration.  This paragraph also asserts  that the agreement concerned the assertion that a 300,000 loan (presumably  $300,000) was to be transferred “to an account of Defendant’s designation” to  pay for costs to be incurred in the purchase of 5 billion 3M Brand model 1860  masks.  Although there are a dozen  defendants listed in the lawsuit and in the declaration, paragraph 4 does not  specify which of the defendants were to have designated the account or did  designate an account, what that account was, and whether Zhao wired or  transferred money to such a designated account.   Nor does paragraph 4 state that Zhao did in fact transfer $300,000 or  some other amount to Jacky Lo or to some other defendant.   3.       The Zhao Declaration in paragraph 5 asserts that  “in” December 4, 2020, “Defendants represented to Plaintiff that they would  receive a return of $5,000,000 if Defendants’ purchase of N95 face masks  returned an interest.”  While the Court  interprets this as a contention that one or more of the Defendants made a  promise of this phenomenal rate of return, the declaration does not identify  which of the defendants made that representation, what the time period was for  the claimed return on investment, whether the promise was made in writing or orally,  and if in writing the declaration fails to attach the corroborating  document.  Further, the phrase ”returned  an interest” is vague and unclear, i.e., does that mean that the $5M amount was  a rate of interest, or that the supplier of the masks expressed an interest in  making the transaction, or something else.   Further still, it is not clear whether the N95 mask is the same or  different from the 3M Brand model 1860 masks referenced in the prior paragraph  of the declaration.   4.       The Zhao Declaration in paragraph 6 asserts that  “some” of the defendants were alter egos of other defendants, but the declaration  does not provide facts from which the Court could determine whether any one  defendant was the alter ego of any other defendant, aside from the facts that Mr.  Lo was an officer or director in “a number of corporations and partnerships”  and that some of them shared a common mailing address. This is insufficient to  prove that every defendant was the alter ego of every other defendant.   5.       The Zhao Declaration in paragraph 10 asserts  that Lo misrepresented his health, but it fails to specify what facts would  lead the Court to draw that conclusion, i.e., what statements were made to whom  and when about his health.   6.       The prejudgment interest of $1,620,432.82 is  claimed at 10%, but it is not clear from the Zhao declaration what the  commencement date should be for the running of any pre-judgment interest. 7.       The Zhao declaration indicates that Jacky Lo has  passed away and that Manhong Zhang is his widow, but it does not indicate  whether there is a probate case pending or whether a claim has been filed to  the estate for some or any of the amounts claimed here. 8.       The Zhao declaration lacks facts sufficient for  the Court to make a determination that Haotian Lao was an ‘accomplice” to Jacky  Lo’s alleged scheme or how Linda Bao was “a part of or at least knew of the  scheme to defraud the Plaintiffs.”    9.       The signature block for Ms. Zhao’s signature on  the declaration lacks a consistent appearance with that of the rest of the  document, giving the Court the impression that the signature itself may have  been cut and pasted from another document.      In the Court’s view, many of these deficiencies may be correctable  with a more robust and detailed CCP section 585 declaration of the Plaintiff.  But on the facts presented, the Court cannot  enter a default judgment for any amount against any defendant.  