 Case Number:  21STCV25666    Hearing Date:   March 15, 2024    Dept:  54 Superior Court of California 
County of Los Angeles  
 



 
PETER FAMULARI,  
 
Plaintiff, 
v. 
 
CITY OF LOS ANGELES, et al., 
 
Defendants. 


 
  Case No.:  21STCV25666  
  
  
  TENTATIVE
  RULING 
 
 



 
Hearing Date: March 15, 2024
Department 54, Judge Maurice A. Leiter
Motion for Summary Judgment
Moving Party: Defendant City of Los Angeles 
Responding Party: Peter Famulari
 
T/R:   DEFENDANT’S MOTION FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT IS
GRANTED.
 
DEFENDANT TO NOTICE.
 
If the parties wish to submit on the tentative, please email
the courtroom at¿SMCdept54@lacourt.org¿with notice to opposing counsel (or self-represented party)
before 8:30 am on the day of the hearing.
 
            The
Court considers the moving papers, opposition, and reply. 
 
BACKGROUND 
 
Plaintiff Peter Famulari
brought this lawsuit alleging damages resulting from restricted access to his
property via Crater Lane.  The City of Los Angeles installed a large “END”
sign in the middle of the road on the southern segment of Crater Lane. 
The sign impaired access to Plaintiff’s property by car, and according to
Plaintiff, rendered his property “landlocked” and substantially impacted its
value. 
 
The operative First
Amended Complaint alleges eight causes of action against the City for (1)
public nuisance, (2) private nuisance, (3) inverse condemnation, (4) denial of
due process, (5) dangerous condition of public property, (6) negligence, (7)
declaratory relief, and (8) failure to repair dedicated street.  Plaintiff
then filed a “supplemental” complaint for personal injury, based on alleged
trip and falls while walking on Crater Lane.  
 
The Court bifurcated the
First Amended Complaint’s third cause of action for inverse condemnation and
seventh cause of action for declaratory relief.  Plaintiff’s claim for
declaratory relief sought a declaration that the City owns and operates the relevant
portion of Crater Lane and has a duty to maintain it.  These two claims
proceeded to a bench trial on July 17, 2023.  
 
At the trial, Michael
Patonai of the Bureau of Engineering, testified that he found no evidence of
any act by the City Council or the City’s Board of Public Works accepting this
portion of Crater Lane into the system of City streets.  (UMF No. 6,) 
Mr. Patonai also testified that in his opinion, based on his knowledge,
training and experience and review of records, the City has never accepted this
portion of Crater Lane into the system of City streets.  (UMF No.
6.)  Mr. Patonai also testified the City does not maintain streets that
have not been constructed per a City plan.  (UMF No. 7.)  Mr. Patonai
testified that Crater Lane has no “Section ID” number in the Bureau of
Engineering’s NavigateLA database which indicates that the City’s Bureau of Street
Services does not consider it to be a street the City must maintain.  (UMF
No. 8.) 
 
The City also introduced
into evidence two letters from the mid-1960s by the then City Engineer of Los
Angeles Lyall A. Pardee (Trial Exhibits 212 and 213), which support the
testimony of Mr. Patonai that Crater Lane was not, and has never been, a City street. 
(UMF No. 9.) 
 
On August 31, 2023, the
Court issued its final decision on the inverse condemnation
and declaratory relief claim.  The Court found that the portion of Crater
Lane at issue in this case was not accepted to the City’s system of streets
during the relevant period, as required by Streets and Highways Code §1806 and
the City of Los Angeles has no duty to maintain it, or to remove the END sign
and bollards.  (UMF No. 11.)   
 
Before the Court is the
City’s motion for summary judgment.  The City argues that this Court’s
August 31, 2023 decision found the City does not own, maintain, or control the
disputed portion of Crater Lane because it was not accepted in the City’s
system of streets during the relevant period, and this finding is dispositive
of the remaining causes of action which require a showing that the City owns,
maintains or controls the property at issue.   
 
LEGAL STANDARD  
 
The function of a motion
for summary judgment or adjudication is to allow a determination as to whether
an opposing party cannot show evidentiary support for a pleading or claim and
to enable an order of summary dismissal without the need for trial.  (Aguilar
v. Atlantic Ritchfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 843.)  Code Civ.
Proc. §437c(c) “requires the trial judge to grant summary judgment if all the
evidence submitted and ‘all inferences reasonably deducible from the evidence’
and uncontradicted by other inferences or evidence, show that there is no
triable issue as to any material fact and that the moving party is entitled to
judgment as a matter of law.” (Adler v. Minor Healthcare Corp. (1992) 7
Cal.App.4th 1110, 1119.)  “The function of the pleadings in a motion for
summary judgment is to delimit the scope of the issues; the function of the
affidavits or declarations is to disclose whether there is any triable issue of
fact within the issues delimited by the pleadings.”  (Juge v. County of
Sacramento (1993) 12 Cal.App.4th 59, 67).   
 
As to each claim as
framed by the complaint, a defendant moving for summary judgment must satisfy
the initial burden of proof by presenting facts to negate an essential element
of the claim(s) or by establishing an affirmative defense.  (Code Civ. Proc.
§437c(p)(2); Scalf v. D.B. Log Homes, Inc. (2005) 128 Cal.App.4th 1510,
1520.)  Courts “liberally construe the evidence in support of the party
opposing summary judgment and resolve doubts concerning the evidence in favor
of that party.”  (Dore v. Arnold Worldwide, Inc. (2006) 39 Cal.4th
384, 389.)  
 
Once the defendant has
met its burden, the burden shifts to the plaintiff to show that a triable issue
of one or more material facts exists as to that cause of action or a defense
thereto.  (Id.)  To establish a triable issue of material
fact, the party opposing the motion must produce substantial responsive
evidence.  (Sangster v. Paetkau (1998) 68 Cal.App.4th 151,
166.)  
 
DISCUSSION 
 
The City argues that
this Court’s August 31, 2023 ruling held that the City did not own, maintain,
or control the relevant segment of Crater Lane. The City contends that this is dispositive
of all remaining causes of action because these findings mean the City has no duty to maintain the END
sign or the bollards. 
 
Plaintiff does not
dispute the premise of the City’s motion: that the City’s duty to maintain is a
requirement for each of his remaining causes of action, and if the City did not
own, control, or maintain the relevant section of Crater Lane, his remaining
claims would be barred.  (See, e.g., Nalwa v. Cedar Fair, L.P. (2012)
55 Cal.4th 1148, 1154 [“Duty, being a question of law, is
particularly amenable to resolution by summary judgment.]) Plaintiff also does
not dispute that this Court’s August 31, 2023 order found the City did not own,
control or had a duty to maintain Crater Lane.  Plaintiff raises four
arguments: 
 
First, Plaintiff argues that the Court’s findings are not final and are
not binding.  This is incorrect.  “Issues adjudicated in earlier
phases of a bifurcated trial are binding in later phases of that trial and need
not be relitigated.  [Citations.]  No other rule is possible, or
bifurcation of trial issues would create duplication, thus subverting the
procedure’s goal of efficiency.  [Citation.]  ‘[D]uplication of
effort is the very opposite of the purpose of bifurcated trials.’”  (Orange
County Water Dist. v. Alcoa Global Fasteners, Inc. (2017) 12 Cal.App.5th
252, 259.) 
 
Second, Plaintiff argues that the Court’s finding as to whether the City
owned or controlled the street was not necessary to its decision and therefore
may be revisited.  But Plaintiff’s claim for declaratory relief sought,
among other things, a declaration that the City owned, operated and had a duty
to maintain Crater Lane.  In finding for the City on this cause of action,
the Court’s conclusion that the City did not own or control the relevant
segment of Crater Lane was a necessary finding. 
 
Third, Plaintiff argues that the Court failed to consider City
Ordinance 101780 and City Ordinance 186020 in the first phase of the
trial.  As the City points out, these ordinances were not previously raised. 
The pleadings play a key role in a summary judgment motion and “set the
boundaries of the issues to be resolved at summary judgment.”  (Jacobs
v. Coldwell Banker Residential Brokerage Co. (2017) 14 Cal.App5th 438,
444.)  “A party may not oppose a summary judgment motion based on a claim,
theory or defense that is not alleged in the pleadings,” and “evidence offered
on an unpleaded claim, theory or defense is irrelevant because it is outside
the scope of the pleadings.”  ¿(California Bank & Trust v. Lawlor¿(2013)
222 Cal.App.4th 625, 637, fn. 3.)  
 
Nor did
Plaintiff seek to rely on these Ordinances at the bench trial. Plaintiff essentially
asks the Court to reconsider its earlier ruling based on new arguments. The
Court declines to do so.
 
Fourth, Plaintiff argues that the Court’s finding is
limited to the period at issue in the claim for inverse condemnation and the
Court did not address the 2020-2022 period.  Again, this argument ignores
the Court’s finding on the declaratory relief claim.   
 
There is no triable
issue as to the City’s ownership, control, or duty to maintain the relevant segment
of Crater Lane. As noted, Plaintiff agrees that this finding precludes his
remaining claims. The Court grants summary judgment in favor of the
City.   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 