  Case Number:  19STCV39485    Hearing Date:   March 15, 2024    Dept:  54 


Superior
  Court of California
County of
  Los Angeles




 
Walther Medina,  


 
 
 
Plaintiff,


 
Case No.:
 


 
19STCV39485




 
vs.


 


 
Tentative Ruling
 




 
Montebello Unified School District,
  et al.,


 
 
 
Defendants.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing Date: March 15, 2024
Department 54, Judge Maurice A. Leiter
Motion to Continue Trial
Moving Party: Defendant/Cross-Complainant Anthony
Martinez
Responding Party: Plaintiff Walther Medina 
 
T/R:     DEFENDANT/Cross
complainant anthony martinez’s motion is granted IN PART. THE COURT WILL ADDRESS
A NEW TRIAL DATE AT HEARING.
 
DEFENDANT/Cross complainant TO GIVE NOTICE.
 
If the
parties wish to submit on the tentative, please email the courtroom at¿SMCdept54@lacourt.org¿with notice to opposing counsel (or self-represented party)
before 8:30 am on the day of the hearing.
            The
Court considers the moving papers, opposition, and reply.
 
While trial continuances are generally
disfavored, pursuant to CRC Rule 3.1332(c), circumstances that indicate good
cause for a continuance include “[a] party's excused inability to obtain
essential testimony, documents, or other material evidence despite diligent
efforts.” (CRC Rule 3.1332(c)(6).) Factors the Court may consider include,
“[t]he proximity of the trial date,” “[w]hether there was any previous
continuance, extension of time, or delay of trial due to any party,” and
“[t]he length of the continuance requested.” (CRC Rule 3.1332(d).) 
 
            Defendant
and Cross-Complainant Anthony Martinez moves for a trial continuance on the
grounds (1) that lead counsel will be on parental leave during the July 29,
2024, trial date, and (2) the extension is statutorily compliant under California
Code of Civil Procedure § 583.310. Codefendant Montebello Unified School
District filed a notice of non-opposition to the trial continuance. Plaintiff
Walther Medina expressed willingness to “accommodate any requests…need[ed]
based on the circumstances”, but was unwilling to stipulate to a continuance
“given the 5 year rule.” 
The Court is sympathetic to
counsel’s parental leave. However, this is a 2019 case, approaching five years
old. Trial has been continued repeatedly, over several years. The motion
contains no information about trial readiness, or about efforts to settle. The
Court will not countenance further delay in bringing this case to resolution. The
Court will grant a brief continuance. However, the parties must advise the Court
about the status of this case, efforts to settle and, as may be necessary,
preparing another lawyer for moving party to be lead counsel at trial.
 


 