 Case Number:  23TRCV00553    Hearing Date:   October 21, 2024    Dept:  M LOS ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT –
SOUTHWEST DISTRICT
 
 
Honorable Gary Y. Tanaka                                               Monday, October 21, 2024
Department M                                                                                               Calendar No. 13
  
 
PROCEEDINGS
 
Alejandro
Lopez v. Indizen Optical Technologies of America, LLC, et al.  
23TRCV00553
1.      Golkar Enterprises, Ltd.’s Motion for Summary Judgment
  

TENTATIVE RULING
 
            Golkar Enterprises, Ltd.’s Motion
for Summary Judgment is granted. 
 
Background
 
            Plaintiff filed the Complaint on March 1, 2023 and the
First Amended Complaint was filed on June 12, 2024. Plaintiff alleges the
following facts. Plaintiff “was lawfully present on the premises of 2925
California Street in the City of Torrance, County of Los Angeles, State of
California. At or about said time and place, a dangerous condition existed on
said premises; an unmarked and concealed live electric bus bar/line carrying a
significant and dangerous voltage of electricity located near the ceiling of
the premises. Plaintiff, while installing a sensor on near the ceiling at a
great height, made contact with the live electric bus line with his drill,
resulting in a large electrical explosion.” (FAC, ¶ 8.)  Plaintiff alleges the following causes of
action: 1. Negligent Infliction of Personal Injury – Premises Liability 2.
Negligent Infliction of Personal Injury 3. Strict Liability 4. Breach of
Warranty. Only the first cause of action is alleged against moving party Golkar
Enterprises – the landlord and owner of the property.
 
            Objections
 
            Plaintiff’s Objections Filed on June 10, 2024: 
 
            Objections 1 to 20 are overruled. Further, the Court
notes that many of the objections simply object to the separate statement of
facts rather than the evidence that supports those facts. Thus, in that regard,
Plaintiff failed to follow the format of objections set forth in Cal. Rules of
Court, Rule 3.1354(b). Plaintiff also failed to file a proposed order on the
objections pursuant to Cal. Rules of Court, Rule 3.1354(c). 
 
            Defendant’s Objections Filed on June 17, 2024:
 
            Objections 1 to 4 are overruled.
            Objection 5 is overruled. 
            Objection 6 is overruled. Whether the statements set
forth contradict other statements made by the deponent would simply be a matter
for credibility and does not constitute a ground to strike that testimony.
            Objections 7 to 9 are overruled.
            Objections 10 to 13 are sustained.
            Objection 14 is overruled.
            Objection 15 is sustained. 
            Because objection 15 is sustained, no ruling is made as
to objections 16 to 20 as they are not material to the ruling on this motion.
            Objection 21 is overruled.
 
            Motion for Summary Judgment or Summary Adjudication
 
            The purpose of a motion for summary judgment or summary
adjudication “is to provide courts with a mechanism to cut through the parties’
pleadings in order to determine whether, despite their allegations, trial is in
fact necessary to resolve their dispute.” 
(Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co.
(2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 843.)  “Code of
Civil Procedure section 437c, subdivision (c), requires the trial judge to
grant summary judgment if all the evidence submitted, and ‘all inferences
reasonably deducible from the evidence’ and uncontradicted by other inferences
or evidence, show that there is no triable issue as to any material fact and
that the moving party is entitled to judgment as a matter of law.”  (Adler
v. Manor Healthcare Corp. (1992) 7 Cal. App. 4th 1110, 1119.)
 
            “On a motion for summary judgment, the initial burden is
always on the moving party to make a prima facie showing that there are no
triable issues of material fact.”  (Scalf v. D. B. Log Homes, Inc. (2005)
128 Cal. App. 4th 1510, 1519.)  A defendant moving for summary judgment or summary
adjudication “has met his or her burden of showing that a cause of action has
no merit if the party has shown that one or more elements of the cause of
action . . . cannot be established, or that there is a complete defense to the
cause of action.”  CCP § 437c(p)(2).  “Once the defendant . . . has met that
burden, the burden shifts to the plaintiff . . . to show that a triable issue
of one or more material facts exists as to the cause of action or a defense
thereto.” CCP § 437c(p)(2).  “If the
plaintiff cannot do so, summary judgment should be granted.”  Avivi
v. Centro Medico Urgente Medical Center (2008) 159 Cal. App. 4th 463, 467.
 
            “A plaintiff or cross-complainant has met his or her
burden of showing that there is no defense to a cause of action if that party
has proved each element of the cause of action entitling the party to judgment
on the cause of action. Once the plaintiff or cross-complainant has met that
burden, the burden shifts to the defendant or cross-defendant to show that a
triable issue of one or more material facts exists as to the cause of action or
a defense thereto.” Code Civ. Proc., § 437c(p)(1).
 
            “When deciding whether to grant summary judgment, the
court must consider all of the evidence set forth in the papers (except
evidence to which the court has sustained an objection), as well as all
reasonable inferences that may be drawn from that evidence, in the light most
favorable to the party opposing summary judgment.”  (Avivi,
159 Cal.App.4th at 467; CCP § 437c(c).)
 
            Defendant moves for summary judgment as against the
Plaintiff and Plaintiff in Intervention. The motion is “made on the grounds
that GOLKAR owed no duty to Plaintiff as it was merely the owner of the subject
premises and, prior to the subject incident, did not retain any control over
the premises or the alleged injury-causing device, which was installed after the
premises was leased by GOLKAR to Plaintiff’s employer, Younger Mfg. Co. dba
Younger Optics (hereinafter “Younger Optics”), and did not breach any duty to
Plaintiff. Further, no act or omission on GOLKAR’S part was a legal cause of or
contributed to the harm suffered by Plaintiff.” (Notice of Motion, page 2,
lines 10-15).
 
            As to the first cause of action for negligence, plaintiff
must establish the following elements: “the existence of a legal duty of care,
breach of that duty, and proximate cause resulting in injury.”  McIntyre v. Colonies-Pacific, LLC
(2014) 228 Cal.App.4th 664, 671.  A cause
of action for premises liability requires that the plaintiff prove all of the
following:  (1) the defendant owned,
leased, occupied or controlled the property; 
(2) the defendant was negligent in the use or maintenance of the
property;  (3) the plaintiff was harmed;
and (4) the defendant’s negligence was a substantial factor in causing
plaintiff’s harm.  CACI No. 1000.  Civil Code section 1714(a) provides, in
relevant part:  “Everyone is responsible,
not only for the result of his or her willful acts, but also for an injury
occasioned to another by his or her want of ordinary care or skill in the
management of his or her property or person, except so far as the latter has,
willfully or by want of ordinary care, brought the injury upon himself or
herself.” 
 
            “Since Rowland v.
Christian (1968) 69 Cal.2d 108, the liability of landowners for injuries to
people on their property has been governed by general negligence
principles.”  Pineda v. Ennabe (1998) 61 Cal.App.4th 1403, 1407.  “The owner of premises is under a duty to
exercise ordinary care in the management of such premises in order to avoid
exposing persons to an unreasonable risk of harm.  A failure to fulfill this duty is
negligence.”  Brooks v. Eugene Burger Management Corp. (1989) 215 Cal.App.3d
1611, 1619.  “[T]he duties owed in
connection with the condition of land are not invariably placed on the person
[holding title] but, rather, are owed by the person in possession of the land .
. . .”  Alcaraz v. Vece (1997) 14 Cal.4th 1149, 1157-58 (internal citations
and quotations omitted).  “A defendant
need not own, possess and control
property in order to be held liable; control alone is sufficient.”  Id. at
1162.
 
            “Historically, the public policy of this state generally
has precluded a landlord’s liability for injuries to his tenant or his tenant’s
invitees from a dangerous condition on the premises which comes into existence
after the tenant has taken possession.  .
. .  To this general rule of
nonliability, the law has developed a number of exceptions, such as where the
landlord covenants or volunteers to repair a defective condition on the
premises (Scholey v. Steele, 59 Cal.App.2d 402, 405 [138 P.2d 733];
Minolletti v. Sabini, 27 Cal.App.3d 321, 324 [103 Cal.Rptr. 528]), where
the landlord has actual knowledge of defects which are unknown and not apparent
to the tenant and he fails to disclose them to the tenant (Shotwell v. Bloom,
60 Cal.App.2d 303, 309-310 [140 P.2d 728]), where there is a nuisance existing
on the property at the time the lease is made or renewed (Burroughs v. Ben's
Auto Park, Inc., 27 Cal.2d 449, 453-454 [164 P.2d 897]), when a safety law
has been violated (Grant v. Hipscher, 257 Cal.App.2d 375, 382-383 [64
Cal.Rptr. 892]), or where the injury occurs on a part of the premises over
which the landlord retains control, such as common hallways, stairs, elevators
or roof (Johnston v. De La Guerra Properties, Inc., 28 Cal.2d 394, 400
[170 P.2d 5]).  A common element in these
exceptions is that either at or after the time possession is given to the
tenant the landlord retains or acquires a recognizable degree of control over the
dangerous condition with a concomitant right and power to obviate the condition
and prevent the injury.  In these
situations, the law imposes on the landlord a duty to use ordinary care to
eliminate the condition with resulting liability for injuries caused by his
failure so to act.”  Uccello v.
Laudenslayer (1975) 44 Cal.App.3d 504, 510-11.
 
            The Court finds that Defendant has met its initial burden
of showing that Plaintiff’s cause of action lacks merit by showing that an
element or elements of the cause of action cannot be established.  Therefore, the burden shifts to Plaintiff to
show that a triable issue of one or more material facts exists as to the cause
of action.  CCP § 437c(p)(2).  The Court finds that Plaintiff has not met
his burden to provide specific facts to show that a triable issue of material
fact exists as to the first cause of action.
 
            Here, Defendant has submitted facts, within their
separate statement of material facts, supported by evidence, demonstrating that
Defendant owed no duty to Plaintiff. 
Defendant states that it leased the premises where Plaintiff fell to Plaintiff’s
employer Younger Optics.  (Defendant’s
Separate Statement of Facts and Supporting Evidence, 3-9.)  Defendant contends that Younger Optics maintained
exclusive possession and control of the property since 1995. (Id. at 10.)  Younger Optics made alterations to the
property. (Id. at 12.) Defendant did not
have the right to enter the property without the permission of Younger Optics.
(Id. at 13.) Defendant’s sole
responsibility was as to the foundation, exterior walls, roof structure, and
underground piping. (Id, at 14.)  Younger
Optics had the sole responsibility and control with respect to electrical
matters. (Id. at 15.)  Defendant had no
actual knowledge of a dangerous condition on the property.  (Id. at 31.)  Defendant did not create the alleged dangerous
condition.  (Id. at 32-33.) 
            
            Plaintiff argues that he has sufficient evidence to
demonstrate that Defendant had control over the premises and the alleged
dangerous condition, before the incident and during the entire tenancy of the
lease agreement, and that this retained control led to a duty to inspect and
identify dangerous conditions as well as a duty to cure and/or warn of
them.  Plaintiff contends that he has
sufficient evidence to permit a reasonable jury to conclude that Defendant
breached each one of those duties and as a result was a substantial cause of
the incident.
 
            Plaintiff points to lease provisions that provide the
landlord the right to enter the property. In addition, the lease states that
the tenant must obtain approval of the landlord to make improvements. Plaintiff
also states that Defendant and its agent conducted inspection of the premises
on an annual basis. (Opposition, page 5, lines 15-16.) Interestingly, Plaintiff
also argues that Defendant provided no evidence of any inspections whatsoever
and that this constituted a breach of duty. (Id. at page 11, lines 10-11.)  Thus, since Defendant did not conduct an
inspection at the time of the lease renewals, Plaintiff argues that Defendant
must be held liable. Mora v. Baker Commodities, Inc. (1989) 210
Cal.App.3d 771, 782.
 
            In addition, Plaintiff contends that Defendant had a duty
to warn of hidden defects that existed at the time of the original lease. Couch
v. Pacific Gas & Elec. Co. (1947) 80 Cal.App.2d 857. Plaintiff believes
that the subject dangerous condition – bus bar – existed at the time of the
original lease. Plaintiff contends that “OSHA issued two citations to
Plaintiff’s employer. One of the violations issued was 8 CCR § 1518(d)(1),
which requires “a legible marking…indicating the presence and location of the
energized circuit(s), or warning signs.” (Opposition, page 17, lines 22-24.)
 
            First, as to Plaintiff’s arguments regarding the terms of
the lease, the arguments in essence show, at most, that the lease agreement
does not show lack of control on its face.  While it is true that the lease itself does
not, on its own, establish lack of control, Defendant has submitted competent
evidence from the declarations of Michael Kennedy and Marc Guren that Defendant
did not have actual control over the property, and most specifically control
over the interior of the property including the subject bus bar.  Plaintiff provided no competent evidence to
controvert this contention to establish the existence of a triable issue of
material fact with respect to whether Defendant did, in fact, retain control of
the property.  
 
            If an instrumentality that the owner did not own or
control created a dangerous condition on the property owner’s land, a duty of
care may exist to remedy the danger or warn others of the danger.  Alcaraz
v. Vece (1997) 14 Cal.4th 1149, 1156.  Here, however, there is no evidence that
Defendant controlled the interior portion of the premises and most specifically
the electrical components, including the subject bus bar.  Thus, there was no duty imposed upon Defendant
to warn others of this condition.  There
is no evidence that Defendant had actual or constructive knowledge of this
condition.  A duty may extend to property
over which the business proprietor exercises actual or apparent control even if
not owned or possessed.   Southland
Corp. v. Superior Court (1967) 203 Cal.App.3d 656, 664. Here, it is
apparent that Younger Optics retained exclusive control over the portion of the
premises that Plaintiff contends was dangerous.
 
               Plaintiff argues that Defendant did not conduct
reasonable inspections.  However, the
lease provision itself only provided a 90-day warranty after Younger Optics took
control of the premises. Again, Plaintiff conflates Defendant’s “right” to
reenter and inspect the premises with Defendant’s absolute requirement to
inspect the premises.  While it is
undisputed that Defendant maintained a right of inspection, a mere lack of
inspection or an inspection that does not reveal that dangerous condition does
not act as de facto strict liability on the part of the landlord. 
 
            As stated in Mora v. Baker Commodities, Inc.
(1989) 210 Cal.App.3d 771, 781–782, a case heavily relied upon by Plaintiff: “when
a landlord renews a lease or re-leases the premises to the same tenant, the
very making of a new lease shows that at that time the landlord has a right of
entry to the premises, and logically, having a right to enter [the landlord
must] remedy the defect[.] [¶] However, the landlord's responsibility to
inspect is limited. Like a residential landlord, the duty to inspect charges
the lessor only with those matters which would have been disclosed by a
reasonable inspection. The burden of reducing or avoiding the risk and the
likelihood of injury will affect the determination of what constitutes a
reasonable inspection. The landlord's obligation is only to do what is
reasonable under the circumstances. The landlord need not take extraordinary
measures or make unreasonable expenditures of time and money in trying to
discover hazards unless the circumstances so warrant. When there is a potential
serious danger, which is foreseeable, a landlord should anticipate the danger
and conduct a reasonable inspection before passing possession to the tenant.
However, if no such inspection is warranted, the landlord has no such
obligation.” Id. (internal citations and quotations omitted).  There is no evidence that Defendant had any
reason to anticipate a foreseeable danger to Plaintiff or others with respect
to the bus bar.  In fact, the evidence
also suggests that the bus bar itself was not dangerous but instead the danger
only resulted after the bus bar was drilled into.  With respect to the CAL-OSHA violation noted
above, the violation was specifically directed to the employer and not the
landlord who, as mentioned above, did not have control over the electrical
components.
 
            “Plaintiffs, on the other hand, maintain that even an
out-of-possession landowner may be liable if it had constructive
knowledge of the danger. Plaintiffs appear to assume that if a danger is
created by any source, and an inspection of the premises would have revealed
the danger, then the property owner should have known of the danger and
therefore is liable to any injured party. We do not believe the issue can be
resolved by such a simple, generic approach. A danger present on land is not
the responsibility of the landowner in all circumstances.” Laico v. Chevron
U.S.A., Inc. (2004) 123 Cal.App.4th 649, 660. Plaintiff submitted no
competent evidence that Defendant had any control over Plaintiff’s job duties
and responsibilities with Younger Optics. Simply because Plaintiff contends
that his job involved a situation wherein he drilled into a dangerous
electrical bus bar does not conflate the existence of a duty of care upon the
landlord who had no control over the condition, did not create the condition,
and did not have any constructive or actual knowledge of the condition. Plaintiff
relies on mere speculation and conjecture that Defendant must have had some
level of control over the area where Plaintiff was injured. 
 
             Therefore, for the
foregoing reasons, Defendant’s motion for summary judgment is granted. 
 
            Defendant is ordered to give notice of this ruling.
 
 
            
 