 Case Number:  24TRCV00897    Hearing Date:   October 21, 2024    Dept:  M LOS ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT –
SOUTHWEST DISTRICT
 
 
Honorable Gary Y. Tanaka                                                                Monday,
October 21, 2024
Department M                                                                                                            Calendar
No. 12
 
 
PROCEEDINGS
 
Rodolfo Hernandez v. Kaladar Co., Inc., et
al.
            24TRCV00897
1.      Kaladar Co., Inc.’s Motion to Compel Arbitration and to
Stay Action
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 
            Kaladar Co., Inc.’s Motion to Compel
Arbitration and Stay Action is granted. 
 
Background 
            
            Plaintiff filed the Complaint on March
13, 2024. Plaintiff alleges the following facts. Plaintiff purchased a Land
Rover from Defendant. After the purchase, there were numerous mechanical
problems with the vehicle. 
 
Motion to
Compel Arbitration
 
            “California law reflects a strong
public policy in favor of arbitration as a relatively quick and inexpensive
method for resolving disputes. 
[Citation.]  To further that policy, [Code of Civil Procedure]
section 1281.2 requires a trial court to enforce a written arbitration
agreement unless one of three limited exceptions applies.  [Citation.] 
Those statutory exceptions arise where (1) a party waives the right to
arbitration; (2) grounds exist for revoking the arbitration agreement; and (3)
pending litigation with a third party creates the possibility of conflicting
rulings on common factual or legal issues. 
(§ 1281.2, subds. (a)–(c).)”  Acquire
II, Ltd. v. Colton Real Estate Group (2013) 213 Cal.App.4th 959, 967. 
 
“The petitioner bears the burden of proving the existence of a valid
arbitration agreement by the preponderance of the evidence, and a party
opposing the petition bears the burden of proving by a preponderance of the
evidence any fact necessary to its defense.  In these summary proceedings, the trial court
sits as a trier of fact, weighing all the affidavits, declarations, and other
documentary evidence, as well as oral testimony received at the court’s
discretion, to reach a final determination.”  Giuliano v. Inland Empire Personnel, Inc.
(2007) 149 Cal.App.4th 1276, 1284.
 
“The party opposing arbitration has the burden of demonstrating that an
arbitration clause cannot be interpreted to require arbitration of the dispute.  Nonetheless, this policy does not override
ordinary principles of contract interpretation.  [T]he contractual terms themselves must be
carefully examined before the parties to the contract can be ordered to
arbitration:  Although [t]he law favors
contracts for arbitration of disputes between parties, there is no policy
compelling persons to accept arbitration of controversies which they have not
agreed to arbitrate.”  Rice v. Downs
(2016) 247 Cal.App.4th 1213, 1223 (internal citations and quotations omitted). 
 
In Rowe v. Exline (2007) 153
Cal.App.4th 1276, 1286, the Court of Appeal found that “a nonsignatory sued as
an agent of a signatory may enforce an arbitration agreement.”  Id.
at 1286.  In addition, “a nonsignatory
who is the agent of a signatory can even be compelled to arbitrate claims
against his will.”  Id. at 1285, citing Harris v. Superior Court (1986) 188
Cal.App.3d 475, 477–78.  Further, “in
many cases, nonparties to arbitration agreements are allowed to enforce those
agreements where there is sufficient identity of parties.”  Valley
Casework, Inc. v. Comfort Construction, Inc. (1999) 76 Cal.App.4th 1013,
1021.  This includes nonparties as agents
of a party as well as “a third party beneficiary of an arbitration
agreement.”  Ibid.  
 
            Defendant moves to compel
arbitration and to stay this action pursuant to CCP 1281.2 et seq. on the
grounds that Plaintiff executed an arbitration agreement wherein Plaintiff is
bound to arbitrate the claims alleged in the Complaint. Defendant attached
as Exhibit 1 to the Declaration of Mehdi Omrani the purported arbitration
agreement that was signed by Plaintiff on May 18, 2023. 
            
Because the moving party met
its initial burden to show the existence of a valid arbitration clause with
respect to the claims of the Plaintiff, the burden shifts to Plaintiff to show
that the arbitration clause should not be enforced as to these claims. Rice,
supra, 247 Cal.App.4th at 1223. Plaintiff filed no written opposition to
the motion.
 
Defendant Merchants Bonding
Company filed a limited opposition stating that it should not be bound by the
arbitration clause because it is not a party to the contract containing the
arbitration provision. Nothing in the motion requests that the Court bind
Merchants Bonding Company to the arbitration clause.
 
Code Civ. Proc., § 1281.2(c)
provides an exception to arbitration when:
“A party to the arbitration
agreement is also a party to a pending court action or special proceeding with
a third party, arising out of the same transaction or series of related
transactions and there is a possibility of conflicting rulings on a common issue
of law or fact. For purposes of this section, a pending court action or special
proceeding includes an action or proceeding initiated by the party refusing to
arbitrate after the petition to compel arbitration has been filed, but on or
before the date of the hearing on the petition. This subdivision shall not be
applicable to an agreement to arbitrate disputes as to the professional
negligence of a health care provider made pursuant to Section 1295.” 
 
Code Civ. Proc., § 1281.2
further provides:
“If the court determines
that a party to the arbitration is also a party to litigation in a pending
court action or special proceeding with a third party as set forth under
subdivision (c), the court (1) may refuse to enforce the arbitration agreement
and may order intervention or joinder of all parties in a single action or
special proceeding; (2) may order intervention or joinder as to all or only
certain issues; (3) may order arbitration among the parties who have agreed to
arbitration and stay the pending court action or special proceeding pending the
outcome of the arbitration proceeding; or (4) may stay arbitration pending the
outcome of the court action or special proceeding.”
 
Thus, a court may refuse to
enforce arbitration if it determines that a party to the arbitration agreement
is also a party to a pending court action with a third party arising out of the
same transaction or series of related transactions and there is a possibility
of conflicting rulings on a common issue of law or fact. California Code of
Civil Procedure §1281.2(c). Here, it is undisputed that Merchants Bonding
Company is not a party to the arbitration provision. 
 
However, no party has adequately
identified that there is a significant potential of conflicting rulings on
common issues of fact and law between the parties to the arbitration agreement
and these third parties. Thus, the proper course herein would be to stay the
pending court action and proceed to arbitration as to Defendant Kaladar Co.
Inc. and Plaintiff pursuant to CCP § 1281.2(c). 

 
Therefore, Defendant’s Motion to Compel Arbitration
and to Stay Action is granted, in part.
 
Arbitration is ordered between Plaintiff and Defendant
Kaladar Co., Inc.  
 
The court action is hereby ordered stayed pending
arbitration.  
 
An OSC re: status of arbitration is set for
____________.
 
Defendant Kaladar Co., Inc. is ordered to give notice
of this ruling.