 Case Number:  24STCV01838    Hearing Date:   June 10, 2024    Dept:  52 Defendant Chinatown Community for
Equitable Development’s Special Motion to Strike
Under Code of Civil Procedure section
425.16, defendant Chinatown Community for Equitable Development (Chinatown
Community) specially moves to strike all causes of action alleged against it by
plaintiffs 920 Everett Street, LLC, Victoria Vu, and Jerome Fink.  
The court has lost jurisdiction to rule on
this motion.  “[I]f a plaintiff
voluntarily dismisses the case prior to the hearing on the anti-SLAPP motion,
the court loses jurisdiction to rule on the anti-SLAPP motion, but retains the
limited jurisdiction to consider the merits of the motion in order to decide if
attorney fees and costs should be awarded the successful defendants.  [Citation.] 
In short, the dismissal is given effect, but the defendant does not lose
its anti-SLAPP right to recover fees if its motion would have been
successful.”  (Dickinson v. Cosby (2017)
17 Cal.App.5th 655, 679.)  On May 15,
2024, plaintiff voluntarily dismissed the entire action without prejudice.  The court therefore cannot rule on the motion.  
Though plaintiffs did not oppose the
motion, Chinatown Community filed a reply brief arguing the court should rule
on the motion and dismiss the action against it with prejudice.  The reply argues the authority on this
subject does not address the distinction between dismissal with or without
prejudice.  Moore v. Liu (1999) 69
Cal.App.4th 745, 751 stated, “We hold that a defendant who is voluntarily
dismissed, with or without prejudice, after filing a section 425.16 motion to
strike, is nevertheless entitled to have the merits of such motion heard as a
predicate to a determination of the defendant’s motion for attorney’s fees and
costs under subdivision (c) of that section.” 
The Court of Appeal did not specifically consider whether a trial court
retains jurisdiction to grant an anti-SLAPP motion and dismiss the action with
prejudice after a voluntarily dismissal without prejudice.  
This court lacks jurisdiction to grant defendant’s
anti-SLAPP motion and dismiss the action with prejudice.  “[A]s a general rule, a voluntary dismissal
of an action deprives the court of both subject matter and personal
jurisdiction in that case. 
[Citation.]  Based on this general
rule, ‘most orders entered after the dismissal are void and have no effect.’
”  (Manhan v. Gallagher (2021) 62
Cal.App.5th 504, 509.)  But “ ‘ “courts
have carved out a number of exceptions to this rule in order to give meaning
and effect to a former party’s statutory rights.” [Citation.]  When a postdismissal or postjudgment motion
involves collateral statutory rights, then the court may retain jurisdiction to
determine and enforce those rights.’ ”  (Ibid.)  Examples of such collateral matters include
motions for sanctions under Code of Civil Procedure section 128.5 (ibid.),
“a judgment for costs” (ibid.), and motions “to declare a plaintiff a
vexatious litigant after voluntary dismissal” (id. at p. 510).  The exceptions apply to “a collateral issue
not directly based on the merits of the underlying proceeding.”  (Ibid.) 
The general rule applies here.  Awarding attorney fees to a prevailing
defendant under Code of Civil Procedure section 425.16(c) is a collateral
matter.  Dismissing the action with
prejudice would be a direct ruling on the merits of this proceeding.  Plaintiff’s voluntary dismissal without
prejudice precludes the court from making such a ruling.  
The reply argues, “Finding that a voluntary
dismissal without prejudice filed after an anti-SLAPP motion moots the
anti-SLAPP motion would allow SLAPP plaintiffs to skirt virtually all [the
statute’s] remedies and timeouts.” 
(Reply, p. 2.)  As discussed
above, it does not allow plaintiffs to skirt one of the chief remedies: awarding
attorney fees under Code of Civil Procedure section 425.16(c).  Chinatown Community has not yet sought
attorney fees.  
Defendant Chinatown Community for
Equitable Development’s special motion to strike is moot.