 Case Number:  23STCV30344    Hearing Date:   April 3, 2024    Dept:  54 


Superior Court of California 
County of Los Angeles 




 
Keep America Safe and Beautiful, in the public interest,


 
 
 
Plaintiff, 


 
Case No.: 
 


 
 23STCV30344




 
vs. 


 


 
TENTATIVE RULING 
 




 
Kabushiki Kaisha Muso Shoji, and DOES 1 through 100, inclusive, 


 
 
 
Defendants. 
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing Date: April 3, 2024
 
Department 54, Judge Maurice Leiter 
 
MOTION FOR ENTRY OF STIPULATED CONSENT JUDGMENT
 
Moving Party: Plaintiff Keep America Safe and Beautiful  
 
Responding Party: None                 
 
T/R:     The motion is GRANTED.  Moving party is to give notice.
 
If the parties wish to submit on the tentative,
please email the courtroom at¿SMCdept54@lacourt.org¿with notice
to opposing counsel (or self-represented party) before 8:00 am on the day of
the hearing. 
The Court considered the moving papers. 
No opposition has been filed.  
 
BACKGROUND
 
On December 12, 2023, Plaintiff Keep America Safe and Beautiful sued
Defendant Kabushiki Kaisha Muso Shoji for civil penalties and injunctive relief.
Plaintiff alleges that Defendant violated Proposition 65 by failing to warn of exposure
to cadmium in Kabushiki’s shiitake mushrooms, Premium "Donko" Thick Cap
Estate Grown on Oak Log, which Kabushiki distributed and/or sold in California.
 
Plaintiff now moves, pursuant to California Health & Safety
Code § 25249.7(f), for an order approving a Proposed Stipulated Consent
Judgment.
 
 
 
ANALYSIS
Health & Safety Code § 24259.7(f)
governs approval of settlements and consent judgments in private actions to
enforce Proposition 65.  Section
24259.7(f)(4) provides, in relevant part:
If there is a settlement of an action
brought by a person in the public interest under subdivision (d), the plaintiff
shall submit the settlement, other than a voluntary dismissal in which no
consideration is received from the defendant, to the court for approval upon
noticed motion, and the court may approve the settlement only if the court
makes all of the following findings:
(a)  The
warning that is required by the settlement complies with this chapter.
(b)  The
award of attorney’s fees is reasonable under California law.
(c)  The
penalty amount is reasonable based on the criteria set forth in paragraph (2)
of subdivision (b).
“To stamp a consent agreement with the
judicial imprimatur, the court must determine the proposed settlement is
just….In the context of Proposition 65 litigation, necessarily brought to
vindicate the public interest, the trial court also must ensure that its
judgment serves the public interest.”  (Consumer
Advocacy Group, Inc. v. Kintetsu Enterprises of America (2006)141
Cal.App.4th 46, 61.)
1.   
The Warning
A warning must be “clear” and “reasonable.”  (HSC § 25249.6.)  To comply, the manner of transmission must be
reasonable and the message must be sufficiently clear to communicate the
warning.  (Environmental Law
Foundation v. Wykle Research, Inc. (2005) 134 Cal.App.4th 60, 67 fn. 6.)  
The warning requirements in section 3.2 of the
Proposed Consent Judgment are clear and reasonable. They communicate that the
product can expose a consumer to chemicals including cadmium, which is known to
the State of California to cause cancer and birth defects or other reproductive
harm.  If Kabushiki is required to
provide a warning pursuant to section 3.1, one of the following warnings must
be utilized: (1) “WARNING: Consuming this
product can expose you to chemicals including cadmium, which is [are] known to
the State of California to cause cancer and birth defects or other reproductive
harm. For more information go to ww.P65Warnings.ca.gov/food”; and (2) “WARNING:
Cancer and Reproductive Harm - http://www.p65wamings.ca.gov/food.”  (Declaration of Tro
Krikorian (“Krikorian Decl.”), ¶ 10; Exhibit C – a copy of the Stipulated
Consent Judgment, Section 3.1-3.2.) 
These warnings include the word “WARNING” in all capital and bold
letters and direct the consumer to www.P65warnings.ca.gov for
more information.  Pursuant to
section 3.2, the warning will be affixed to the packaging of the product and
will be prominently placed so that it likely will be read and understood by an
ordinary individual.  
2.   
Attorney’s Fees and Costs
The negotiated $40,000.00 reimbursement for
fees and out-of-pocket litigation expenses is reasonable; it is less than the lodestar
calculations.  (Krikorian Decl., ¶
6.)   Plaintiff’s counsel have spent 85 hours on
this matter, and expect to spend an additional three to four hours.  (Id.) 
Counsel declares he and his staff bill at a rate of $450 to $550 per
hour.  (Id. at ¶¶ 1-5.)
3.   
Reasonableness of the Penalty
Health & Safety Code §
24259.7(b)(2) provides: 
In assessing the amount of a civil
penalty for a violation of this chapter, the court shall consider all of the
following:
(a)  The
nature and extent of the violation.
(b)  The
number of, and severity of, the violations.
(c)  The
economic effect of the penalty on the violator.
(d)  Whether
the violator took good faith measures to comply with this chapter and the time
these measures were taken.
(e)  The
willfulness of the violator’s misconduct.
(f)   The
deterrent effect that the imposition of the penalty would have on both the
violator and the regulated community as a whole.
(g)  Any
other factor that justice may require.
The proposed penalty of $5,000 is reasonable.  (Krikorian Decl., ¶ 13; Exhibit C, Section
4.)  In November 2023, Plaintiff’s
counsel began investigating whether the product contained excessive levels of cadmium.  (Id. at ¶ 2.)  In December 2022, Plaintiff confirmed,
through third-party certified laboratory testing, that the product contained cadmium
at levels actionable pursuant to California Health and Safety Code section
25249.9.  (Id. at ¶ 4.)  On February 3, 2023 counsel’s firm prepared and
served a Notice of Violation of Health and Safety Code Section 25249.5, et seq.
on Kabushiki.  (Id.
at ¶ 5.)  On December 12, 2023, Plaintiff filed this
action. (Id. at ¶ 8.) 
The
parties have cooperated throughout. 75 percent of the penalty
will be paid to the Office of Environmental Health Hazard Assessment; the
remaining 25 percent will be paid to Plaintiff.
4.   
Public Interest
Under 11 Cal. Code Regs. § 3201(b)(1), “a
settlement that provides for the giving of a clear and reasonable warning,
where there had been no warning provided prior to the sixty-day notice, for an
exposure that appears to require a warning, is presumed to confer a significant
benefit on the public.”  The warning here
does exactly that; it serves the public interest. 


 