 Case Number:  23CHCV02439    Hearing Date:   April 30, 2024    Dept:  F47 Dept. F47
Date: 4/30/24
Case #23CHCV02439
 
MOTION TO
STRIKE
 
Motion filed on 2/26/24.
 
MOVING PARTY: Defendant Garfield Beach CVS, LLC,
erroneously sued and served as CVS Pharmacy, Inc.
RESPONDING PARTY: Plaintiffs Estate of Anita Y. Raphael, through
its personal representative Joseph Rogoff and Charlotte Marion Raphael,
individually, through her conservator Joseph Rogoff
NOTICE: ok
 
RELIEF REQUESTED: An order striking the punitive
damages allegations against Defendant Garfield Beach CVS, LLC, erroneously sued
and served as CVS Pharmacy, Inc. (CVS) from Plaintiffs’ Estate of Anita Y.
Raphael, through its personal representative Joseph Rogoff, Charlotte Marion
Raphael, individually, through her conservator Joseph Rogoff (collectively,
Plaintiffs) complaint.  Specifically, CVS
seeks to strike the following portions of Plaintiffs’ complaint: (1) “punitive
damages” at p.3,  ¶14, line (a)(2) and
(2) p.7, Exemplary Damages Attachment in its entirety.
 
RULING: The motion is granted with 20 days leave
to amend.  
 
SUMMARY OF FACTS & PROCEDURAL HISTORY
 
This action arises out of the death of Anita Y. Rapahel
(Decedent).  Plaintiffs Estate of Anita
Y. Raphael, through its personal representative Joseph Rogoff and Charlotte
Marion Raphael, individually, through her conservator Joseph Rogoff
(collectively, Plaintiffs) allege that on 10/6/22, Decedent was placing items
in a donation box when she became entangled in the donation box resulting in
suffocation and death.  In their
complaint, Plaintiffs allege that all defendants, including Defendant Garfield
Beach CVS, LLC, erroneously sued and served as CVS Pharmacy, Inc. (CVS), “negligently
owned, maintained, operated, managed, operated, managed, designed, manufactured
and controlled” the donation box. (See Complaint, p.4, ¶1). Plaintiffs’ complaint
alleges three causes of action for (1) General Negligence, (2) Products
Liability, and (3) Premises Liability.  (See
Complaint).  The complaint seeks punitive
damages. (See Complaint, p.3, ¶14 and p.7).
 
Despite CVS’ counsel’s multiple attempts to meet and
confer with Plaintiffs’ counsel regarding the issues CVS had with the punitive
damage allegations in the complaint, Plaintiffs’ counsel failed to
respond.  (See Conley Decl. ¶¶3-6,
Ex.2).  Therefore, on 2/26/24, CVS filed
and served the instant motion seeking an order striking the punitive damages
allegations against CVS from Plaintiffs’ complaint.  Specifically, CVS seeks to strike the
following portions of Plaintiffs’ complaint: (1) “punitive damages” at
p.3,  ¶14, line (a)(2) and (2) p.7,
Exemplary Damages Attachment in its entirety.
On 4/17/24, Plaintiffs filed an opposition to the
motion.  On 4/23/24, CVS filed a reply to
the opposition.  
 
ANALYSIS
 
To state a claim for punitive damages, a plaintiff must
plead specific facts showing the defendant engaged in conduct that amounts to
malice, oppression or fraud.  See
Civil Code 3294; Clauson (1998) 67 CA4th 1253, 1254.  Something more than the mere commission of a
tort is required to support a claim for punitive damages.  Taylor (1979) 24 C3d 890,
894-895.  The mere carelessness,
ignorance, unreasonableness or recklessness of a defendant does not justify the
imposition of punitive damages.  Tomaselli
(1994) 25 CA4th 1269, 1287.  Punitive
damages are rarely awarded in unintentional tort cases because they usually
lack the evil motive required for such an award.  Lackner (2006) 135 CA4th 1188, 1210.
 
Plaintiffs have failed to allege sufficient specific
facts to establish how CVS acted with the requisite malice, oppression or fraud
by allowing the donation box to be placed near a CVS store.  The complaint does not provide specific
information regarding the alleged “dozens of similar incidents across North
America” of which Plaintiffs claim defendants were or should have been aware or
how defendants were or should have been aware of such incidents.  Plaintiffs have also failed to allege
sufficient facts to establish corporate approval of the alleged wrongful
conduct which is necessary to state a claim for punitive damages against an
entity defendant such as CVS.  See
CCP 3294(b).
 
The Court notes that the declaration of Plaintiffs’
counsel does not address their failure to respond to CVS’ meet and confer
efforts regarding the issue presented by this motion.  (See Wright Decl.).  The reply indicates that on 4/17/24, the
parties began a meet and confer process to potentially submit a Joint
Stipulation which would render the instant motion moot.  (See Reply, p.3:13-18; Conley Reply
Decl., Ex.A).
 
CONCLUSION
 
The motion is granted. 
Due to the liberal policy of allowing leave to amend and because this is
only the original complaint, Plaintiffs are given 20 days to try to cure the
defects in their pleading.  
 
If the Joint Stipulation is submitted and the order is
entered thereon rendering this motion moot before the hearing, the motion will
be placed off calendar.  However, in such
case, the Court notes that Plaintiffs’ failure to respond to meet and confer
efforts before the motion was filed will have caused CVS to waste time and
money preparing the instant motion and reply and will have caused the Court to
waste time reviewing the motion, opposition and reply and preparing the
tentative ruling.  
 
 
 