  Case Number:  19STCV43706    Hearing Date:   April 2, 2024    Dept:  57 Pending
before the Court is Plaintiff's motion for attorney's fees in the amount of $96,470.  For the reasons stated below, the Court is
denying the motion without prejudice.
Following
an uncontested bench trial,  the Court
found that Plaintiff prevailed on its claim against Defendants Longnan Jin and
Wenjie Guo for breach of a nondisclosure agreement ("the NDA").  In pertinent part, the NDA  provided that "[i]n the event that any
action, suit, or other proceeding is instituted to remedy, prevent or obtain
relief from a breach of this Agreement, or arising out of a breach of this
Agreement, the substantially prevailing party shall recover all of such party’s
attorneys’ fees incurred in each and every such action, suit or other
proceeding, including any and all appeals or petitions therefrom.”  Because
the NDA authorizes an award of attorney's fees to the party that prevailed in
an action on the NDA, and because the Court determined that Plaintiff prevailed
on its action for breach of the NDA, Plaintiff is entitled under Civil Code
1717(a) to reasonable attorney's fees it incurred to enforce to the NDA.  (Section 1717(a) [“In any action on a
contract, where the contract specifically provides that attorneys’ fees and
costs, which are incurred to enforce that contract, shall be awarded either to
one of the parties or to the prevailing party, then the party who is determined
to be the party prevailing on the contract, whether he or she is the party
specified in the contract or not, shall be entitled to reasonable attorney’s
fees in addition to other costs."].)
Plaintiff
also prevailed after trial on a host of other claims against the Defendants.
These were tort and other non-contractual claims for which an award of
attorney's fees is not authorized by Section 1717 or any other statute. 
As a
general rule, when a claim based on a contract providing for an award of
attorney fees to the party that prevailed on an action to enforce the contract
is joined with tort or other claims for which an award of attorney’s fees is
not authorized by statute, attorney’s fees are recoverable by the prevailing
party only as they relate to the contract claim; therefore, the trial court
must apportion the fees incurred by the prevailing party between the contract
claim and the other claims on which that party prevailed. (Reynolds Metals
Co. v. Alperson (1979) 25 Cal.3d 124, 129. 
This rule gives away, however, when the contract claim is so intertwined
with the other claims that it is impracticable to apportion attorney time between
work for which an award of  fees is authorized
and work for which it is not. (Calvo Fisher & Jacob LLP v. Lujan
(2015), 234 Cal.App.4th 608, 625-626; Bell v. Vista Unified School Dist.
(2000) 82 Cal.App.4th 672, 687.    
It is unclear
from the Plaintiff’s motion whether the amount of attorney’s fees that
Plaintiff seeks, $ 96,470, is attributable just to the work done in connection
with the Plaintiff’s successful claim for breach of the NDA (for which an award
of attorney’s fees is authorized under Section 1717(a)) or whether that amount
also reflects work done in connection with Plaintiff’s other successful claims
(for which an award of attorney’s fees is not authorized under Section 1717(a)
or any other statute.)  If the former, it
would appear that the amount of fees that Plaintiff is seeking is unreasonably high,
given that the claim for breach of the NDA was just one of many claims.  If the latter, Plaintiff has failed in the
motion to articulate why the general rule of apportionment between contract claims,
on the one hand, and non-contract claims, on the other hand, should not apply
here.  In other words, Plaintiff has
failed to show that the work on the non-contract claims is so intertwined with
the work on the contract claim that apportionment is impractical. 
The
Court is denying the motion without prejudice. 
This will give the Plaintiff an opportunity to resubmit an amended
motion for attorney’s fees that conforms to the principles set forth in this
ruling.
 