 Case Number:  22STCV23033    Hearing Date:   April 2, 2024    Dept:  57 Pending before the Court is the motion for
summary judgment of Defendants Cedars-Sinai Health System dba Cedars-Sinai
Medical Center; Glenn B. Pfeffer, M.D. and Cedars-Sinai Medical Center
(collectively, “Defendants”) on Plaintiff Edwin Savadian’s complaint against
them for medical malpractice.  Savadian’s
medical malpractice claim arises from a procedure that Defendants performed on
his leg in  2021.  The Court is denying Defendants’ motion. 
“A
party may move for summary judgment in an action or proceeding if it is
contended that the action has no merit or that there is no defense to the
action or proceeding.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c(a)(1).)  A cause of action has no merit if “one or more
of the elements of the cause of action cannot be separately established, even
if that element is separately pleaded.” (Id., § 437c(o)(1).)    The function of a motion for summary judgment
is to allow a determination as to whether an opposing party can show
evidentiary support for a pleading or claim and to enable an order of summary
dismissal without the need for trial. (Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co.
(2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 843.)  In
analyzing motions for summary judgment, courts must apply a three-step
analysis: “(1) identify the issues framed by the pleadings; (2) determine
whether the moving party has negated the opponent's claims; and (3) determine
whether the opposition has demonstrated the existence of a triable, material
factual issue.” (Hinesley v. Oakshade Town Center (2005) 135 Cal.App.4th
289, 294.)  Under this framework, summary
judgment is granted when, after the Court’s consideration of the evidence set
forth in the papers and all reasonable inferences accordingly, no triable
issues of fact exist, and the moving party is entitled to judgment as a matter
of law. (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c(c).
As
to each claim as framed by the complaint, a defendant moving for summary
judgment must satisfy the initial burden of proof by presenting facts to negate
an essential element, or to establish a defense.  (Scalf v. D. B. Log Homes, Inc. (2005)
128 Cal.App.4th 1510, 1520.) Courts “liberally construe the evidence in support
of the party opposing summary judgment and resolve doubts concerning the
evidence in favor of that party.” (Dore v. Arnold Worldwide, Inc. (2006)
39 Cal.4th 384, 389.)  Once the defendant
moving party has met its burden, the burden shifts to the plaintiff to show via
specific facts that a triable issue of material facts exists as to a cause of
action or a defense thereto. (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c(p)(2).) When a party
cannot establish an essential element or defense, a court must grant a motion
for summary adjudication.  (Id., § 437c(c), (o).)   
 “The elements of a cause of action for medical
malpractice are: (1) a duty to use such skill, prudence, and diligence as other
members of the profession commonly possess and exercise; (2) a breach of the
duty; (3) a proximate causal connection between the negligent conduct and the
injury; and (4) resulting loss or damage.” (Lattimore v. Dickey (2015)
239 Cal.App.4th 959, 968.)   “Both the standard of care and
defendants’ breach must normally be established by expert testimony in a
medical malpractice case.” (Avivi
v. Centro Medico Urgente Medical Center (2008)
159 Cal.App.4th 463, 467 [“Avivi”].) 
Thus in a medical malpractice case, “’[w]hen a
defendant moves for summary judgment and supports his motion with expert
declarations that his conduct fell within the community standard of care, he is
entitled to summary judgment unless the plaintiff comes forward with
conflicting expert evidence.’ [citations.]” (Munro v. Regents of
University of California (1989) 215 Cal.App.3d 977, 985.)  An expert declaration, if uncontradicted, is
conclusive proof as to the prevailing standard of care and the propriety of the
particular conduct of the health care provider.  (Starr v. Mooslin
(1971) 14 Cal.App.3d 988, 999.)   
“[C]ausation in actions arising from medical negligence must be proven
within a reasonable medical probability based on competent expert testimony,
i.e., something more than a ‘50–50 possibility.’ [Citations.]” (Bromme v.
Pavitt (1992) 5 Cal.App.4th 1487, 1504.)   “[T]he
appropriate test for expert qualification in ordinary medical malpractice
actions is whether the expert is familiar with circumstances similar to those
of the respondents; familiarity with the standard of care in the particular
community where the alleged malpractice occurred, while relevant, is generally
not requisite . . .” (Avivi, supra, 159 Cal.App.4th at 465.)
Defendants contend that they complied with
the applicable standard of care and there is nothing they did or failed to do
that caused or contributed to Savadian’s injury. In support of those
contentions, Defendants present the expert declaration of Dr. Michael Pinzur.  Dr. Pinzur’s declaration sets forth his professional
opinion that the procedure Defendants performed on Savadian was necessary for his
“presenting condition and functional complaints” and that “pre-operative
vascular studies were not necessary . . . because [Savadian] had good palpable
pulses to his foot.” (Pinzur Dec., ¶¶ 7-8.) As to causation, Dr. Pinzur
opines that “[t]he post-operative complications suffered by Mr. Savadian were
not the result of any vascular insufficiency, nor were they the result of the
cast” Defendants placed on Savadian. (Id., ¶ 12.) 
In
opposition to Defendants’ motion for summary judgment, Savadian objects to Dr.
Pinzur’s declaration on the grounds that Dr. Pinzur is not qualified to render
his opinion and that his opinion lacks foundation.  As to his qualifications, Dr. Pinzur states that
he is licensed to practice in the State of Illinois where he has been in
practice for more than 40 years. (Pinzur Decl., ¶ 1.)  Savadian contends that Dr. Pinzur is not
qualified to testify on the standard of care in 2021 in Southern California
(the geographic location where Defendants performed the procedure on Savadian)
because Dr. Pinzur has not practiced there and is not licensed to practice
there either.   As to the foundation of Dr. Pinzur’ opinion,
Savadian contends that Dr. Pinzur fails to lay the foundation for his stated
“familiar[ity] with the standard of care as it existed in 2021 in Southern
California for the management of patients and medical conditions such as those
presented by Edwin Savadian.” (Id., ¶ 5.)
The
Court need not rule on the validity of Savadian’s objections to Dr. Pinzur’s
declaration in order to dispose of Defendants’ motion for summary
judgment.  That is because even if those
objections are invalid, Savadian has submitted the declaration of his own
medical expert, Dr. David Tepper, and Dr. Tepper’s declaration fundamentally contradicts
Dr. Pinzur’s declaration and thereby creates triable issues of material fact on
Savadian’s medical malpractice claim.   
Specifically,
in his declaration, Dr. Tepper opines that Defendants fell below the applicable standard of care when they proceeded
to operate on Savadian without ordering a CT arteriogram of the left lower
extremity to evaluate the vascular system pre-operatively. (Tepper Decl., ¶
12.)  Dr. Tepper notes that Savadian had
previously undergone multiple lengthening procedures on the same leg and had a
history of smoking; according to Dr. Tepper, this meant that Savadian was not a
candidate to undergo an additional lengthening procedure to his already
compromised vascular system in his left lower extremity. (Id.., ¶¶ 9, 12, 17,
18.)  In direct contrast to Dr. Pinzur’s
opinion, Dr. Tepper  opines that preoperatively
palpating the foot for vascular integrity is an outdated standard of care.
(Id., ¶ 14.) Dr. Tepper further opines that the applicable standard of care for
circumstances like Savadian’s is an arteriogram, which has been the standard
for the past 20 years. (Ibid.)  Dr.
Tepper’s declaration also contradicts Dr. Pinzur’s as to causation. In particular,
Dr. Tepper opines to a reasonable degree of medical probability that Savadian’s
pain, discoloration, and dying tissue post-operation resulted from poor
circulation that was caused by the procedure itself and the way Savadian’s foot
was positioned in the cast that was placed on Savadian after the procedure.
(Id., ¶ 19.)  Dr. Tepper concludes
that Defendants’ “failures to address complication of the loss of circulation
post operatively and make adjustments to the foot position, more than just a
bivalved cast, was a substantial factor in the necrosis of the left calf flap
and distal foot.” (Id., ¶ 21.) 
Defendants did not file a reply brief in support of their
motion for summary judgment.   As a result, they have not presented any
evidence or argument to convince the Court to ignore the opinions that Dr.
Tepper offers in his declaration.   The
Court thus has before it two  competing expert
declarations, Dr. Pinzur’s and Dr. Tepper’s, that come to diametrically
opposite conclusions on whether the Defendants engaged in medical malpractice
in performing the procedure on Savadian that gives rise to this action.  In sum, there are disputed issues of material
arising from the competing expert declarations. 
Accordingly, Defendants’ motion for summary judgment must be denied.