  Case Number:  24NNCV01718    Hearing Date:   September 4, 2024    Dept:  A LOS
ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT
NORTH
CENTRAL DISTRICT - BURBANK
DEPARTMENT
A
 

TENTATIVE
RULING
SEPTEMBER 4,
2024
Continued
from August 30, 2024

DEMURRER

Los Angeles Superior Court
Case # 24NNCV01718

 



MP:  


John C. Chao, D.D.S. dba Alhambra
  Dental Group (Defendant)




RP:  


Beryl Bai (Plaintiff) 



 
NOTICE:
 

The Court is not
requesting oral argument on this matter.  The Court is guided by
California Rules of Court, Rule 3.1308(a)(1) whereby notice of intent to appear
is requested.  Unless the Court directs argument in the Tentative Ruling,
no argument is requested and any party seeking argument should notify all other
parties and the court by 4:00 p.m. on the court day before the hearing of the
party’s intention to appear and argue.  The tentative ruling will become
the ruling of the court if no argument is received.   
 
Notice may be given
either by email at BurDeptA@LACourt.org or by telephone at (818) 260-8412.
 
ALLEGATIONS: 
 
Beryl Bai
(Plaintiff) brings this action against John
C. Chao, D.D.S. dba Alhambra Dental Group (Defendant).
Plaintiff alleges that she was seriously injured by Defendant’s negligent
dental treatment from 2018 to 2021. Plaintiff’s Complaint states causes of
action for (1) Medical Negligence and (2) Elder Abuse. 
 
Defendant
now demurs to each cause of action on grounds that they are barred by the
applicable statute of limitations and fail to state sufficient facts. Plaintiff
opposes the demur. 
 
ANALYSIS: 
 
I.                   
LEGAL
STANDARD 
 
The grounds for a demurrer must appear on the
face of the pleading or from judicially noticeable matters. (C.C.P. §
430.30(a); Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311, 318.) A demurrer for
sufficiency tests whether the complaint states a cause of action. (Hahn v.
Mirda (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747.) The only issue involved in a
demurrer hearing is whether the complaint states a cause of action. (Id.)
 
A demurrer assumes the truth of all factual,
material allegations properly pled in the challenged pleading. (Blank v.
Kirwan, supra, 39 Cal. 3d at 318.) No matter how unlikely or improbable,
the plaintiff’s allegations must be accepted as true for the purpose of ruling
on the demurrer. (Del E. Webb Corp. v. Structural Materials Co. (1981)
123 Cal.  App. 3d 593, 604.) But this does not include contentions;
deductions; conclusions of fact or law alleged in the complaint; facts
impossible in law; or allegations contrary to facts of which a court may take
judicial notice.  (Blank, supra, 39 Cal. 3d at 318.)
 
Pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure (“C.C.P.”) §§
430.10(e) and (f), the party against whom a complaint has been filed may demur
to the pleading on the grounds that the pleading does not state facts
sufficient to constitute a cause of action, or that the pleading is uncertain,
ambiguous and/or unintelligible. It is an abuse of discretion to sustain a
demurrer without leave to amend if there is a reasonable probability that the
defect can be cured by amendment. (Schifando v. City of Los Angeles
(2003) 31 Cal. 4th 1074, 1082.)
 
II.                
MERITS 
 
Meet and Confer 
 
C.C.P. § 430.41(a) requires that the moving party meet
and confer with the party who filed the pleading that is subject to the
demurrer. Upon review the Court finds the meet and confer requirements were
met. (Yousefi Decl. ¶ 2.) 
 
Facts 
 
In
or about January 2018, Plaintiff visited Defendant’s clinic at Alhambra Dental
Group for dental work. (Compl. ¶ 46.) Plaintiff sought treatment for
receding gums and two loose teeth. (Id.) Plaintiff alleges Defendant required
$18,000 in payment before beginning any work. (Compl. ¶ 48.) Plaintiff
alleges that Defendant diagnosed her with a periodontal disease requiring laser
treatment, but that Defendant is not a licensed periodontist. (Compl.
¶ 49.) Plaintiff alleges that she underwent the treatment plan and paid
$27,300 for the services. (Id.) Plaintiff asserts that she continued to
treat with Defendant through 2021. (Compl. ¶ 50.) 
 
In
2022 Plaintiff sought treatment from a periodontist given her persistent
symptoms with her teeth and gums. (Compl. ¶ 60.) Plaintiff alleges that it
was during this consultation she realized Defendant’s negligence. (Compl.
¶ 61.) In January 2024, Plaintiff treated with a dentistry expert and was
diagnosed with Temporomandibular Joint (TMJ) and Obstructive Sleep Apnea (OSA).
(Compl. ¶ 64.) Plaintiff alleges she was never diagnosed by Defendant with
TMJ or OSA. (Compl. ¶ 47) 
 
First COA – Medical Negligence – Overruled 
 
Defendant
demurrers to this cause of action on grounds that it is barred by the
applicable statute of limitations. “The defense of statute of limitations may
be asserted by general demurrer if the complaint shows on its face that the
statute bars the action…In order for the bar of the statute of limitations to
be raised by demurrer, the defect must clearly and affirmatively appear on the
face of the complaint; it is not enough that the complaint shows merely that
the action may be barred.” (E-Fab, Inc. v. Accountants, Inc. Services (2007)
153 Cal.App.4th 1308, 1315-1316.) For Defendant to succeed in his demurrer, he
must demonstrate that the cause of action is necessarily barred by the relevant
statute of limitations on the face of the Complaint.  
 
C.C.P.
§ 340.5 provides in relevant part:
 
In an action for
injury or death against a health care provider based upon such person's alleged
professional negligence, the time for the commencement of action shall be three
years after the date of injury or one year after the plaintiff discovers, or through
the use of reasonable diligence should have discovered, the injury, whichever
occurs first.
 
Defendant
argues that Plaintiff’s cause of action is barred under either measure in C.C.P
§ 340.5. This suit was filed on May 21, 2024, more than three years from the
injury or one year from discovery. Plaintiff argues that her claim is not
entirely barred because the statute of limitations has not run out on her
claims relating to TMJ and OSA. Plaintiff’s argument on this front is
persuasive.  
 
The term injury for
purposes of section 340.5 refers to the damaging effect of the alleged wrongful
act and not to the act itself. The injury is not necessarily the ultimate harm
suffered, but instead occurs at ‘the point at which appreciable harm is first
manifested. An injury manifests when damage is evidenced in some significant
fashion; when the damage has clearly surfaced and is noticeable. Because the
three-year limitations period accrues at the time of injury, it is the
surfacing of appreciable harm that marks the beginning of the three-year
period. 
 
(Filosa v. Alagappan (2020) 59 Cal.App.5th 772, 779 [internal
citations and quotation marks omitted].) 
 
For purposes of the
one-year period, discovery of the injury means the plaintiff has discovered
both his or her injury and its negligent cause. The plaintiff need not be aware
of either the specific facts or the actual negligent cause of the injury. If the
plaintiff has notice or information of circumstances that would put a
reasonable person on inquiry notice, the limitation period is activated. 
 
(Id.
[internal citations and quotation marks omitted].) 
 
Plaintiff’s
argument that she only “discovered” her injury related to the failure to
diagnose TMJ and OSA comports with the factual allegations of her Complaint.
Plaintiff alleges that her teeth began to protrude forward and give her a
neanderthal like appearance. (Compl. ¶ 56.) Plaintiff does not ascribe a
date for when she first noticed this. Plaintiff also alleges that during her
2021 periodontist consultation, she realized Defendant’s negligence because she
was told that any dental work performed on a patient with gum disease would be
ineffective. (Compl. ¶ 61.) 
 
On
its face Plaintiff’s Complaint does not definitively indicate that her
discovery of the TMJ and OSA related injuries was outside of the statute of
limitations. Plaintiff’s Complaint does not affirmatively indicate that the
2022 periodontist consultation had anything to do with her lower teeth
protrusion. Plaintiff only alleges that she was diagnosed with TMJ and OSA in
2024 and thereafter became aware of Defendant’s negligence in not diagnosing
her. 
 
The
Court stresses that on demurrer, the facts in a pleading must be strictly
construed in favor of Plaintiff. This demurrer is not concerned with whether
Plaintiff’s claims may be barred, it is concerned with where they are
necessarily barred on the face of the Complaint. Plaintiff’s factual pleadings
do not definitively establish that her claim is barred by the applicable
statute of limitations. Whether Plaintiff’s claims will survive more
substantive dispositive motions remains to be seen. 
 
Accordingly,
the demurrer to the first cause of action is OVERRULED. 
 
Second COA –Elder Abuse – Sustained with Leave to Amend 
 
Plaintiff’s argument in opposition speaks to financial Elder
Abuse which was not alleged in the complaint, but rather physical Elder Abuse
was. She does not state such a cause of action in her Complaint. Plaintiff’s
second cause of action is for Elder Abuse under Welf. & Inst. Code §
15610.07 (hereinafter physical Elder Abuse), which is a separate and distinct
claim from one for financial Elder Abuse brought under Welf. & Inst. Code §
15610.30(a). This distinction is crucial because the two
claims have separate statutes of limitations and separate pleading elements. As
will be discussed below, the Court finds any potential claim for physical Elder
Abuse would be barred by the applicable statute of limitations.  
 
The Court notes that
Plaintiff does not plead her age, an essential element to a claim for elder
abuse. The Elder Abuse Act makes certain enhanced remedies available to a
plaintiff who proves abuse of an elder, i.e., a 'person residing in this state,
65 years of age or older.' (Welf. & Inst. Code § 15610.27.) Nowhere in the
Complaint does Plaintiff plead that she is 65 years or older. Nor does The only
allegation speaking to Plaintiff’s age is that she “was substantially more
vulnerable than other members of the public…because of her age and physical
condition.” (Compl. ¶ 95.) This is allegation is insufficient to allege
that Plaintiff is over the age of 65. 
Plaintiff’s cause of
action is subject to demurrer on grounds of failure to plead her age alone.
Regardless, the Court finds further analysis concerning the statute of
limitations.    
When considering a Demurrer, the Court focuses solely on what
is alleged in the operative complaint, not additional facts asserted in the
opposition that are not in the Complaint. 
A cause of action for physical Elder Abuse has a two-year limitations
period. (Benun v. Superior Court (2004)
123 Cal.App.4th 113 [holding that the statute of limitations for
assault/battery are facially applicable to a cause of action under Welf. & Inst. Code §
15610.07].) As Plaintiff last treated with Defendant in 2021, her 2024 appears
necessarily time barred.  Nonetheless,
based on what was presented in the Complaint, the Court believes that Plaintiff
may be able to amend to properly allege an Elder Abuse cause of action.  Therefore, leave to amend will be granted.
 
The demurrer to the second cause of action is SUSTAINED
with 20 days’ leave to amend. 
--- 
 
RULING:
 
In the
event the parties submit on this tentative ruling, or a party requests a signed
order or the court in its discretion elects to sign a formal order, the
following form will be either electronically signed or signed in hard copy and
entered into the court’s records. 
 
ORDER 
 
John C. Chao, D.D.S. dba
Alhambra Dental Group’s Demurrer came on regularly
for hearing on August 30, 2024, with appearances/submissions as noted in the
minute order for said hearing, and the court, being fully advised in the
premises, did then and there rule as follows: 
 
THE DEMURRER TO THE FIRST CAUSE OF ACTION IS
OVERRULED. 
 
THE DEMURRER TO THE SECOND CAUSE OF ACTION IS
SUSTAINED WITH 20 DAYS’ LEAVE TO AMEND.
 
UNLESS ALL PARTIES WAIVE NOTICE, DEFENDANT TO
GIVE NOTICE. 
 
IT IS SO
ORDERED. 
 
DATE: 
August 30, 2024                            _______________________________ 
                                                                   
    F.M.
TAVELMAN, Judge 
Superior Court of California 
County of
Los Angeles 
 
 