 Case Number:  24STCP02321    Hearing Date:   October 31, 2024    Dept:  86 MOTION FOR PRELIMINARY INJUNCTION
 
Date:               10/31/24 (1:30 PM) 
Case:                           City of Ontario et al. v. Inland Empire Utilities Agency
(24STCP02321) 
  
TENTATIVE RULING:
 
Plaintiff/Petitioner City of Ontario’s Motion for a
Preliminary Injunction is DENIED. 
 
Plaintiff and petitioner City of Ontario’s (“Ontario”) requests
for judicial notice are GRANTED. (Evid. Code § 452(b), (c).) 
 
Ontario moves for a preliminary injunction enjoining defendant
and respondent Inland Empire Utilities Agency (“Agency” or “IEUA”) from “reducing
the quantity of water available to be purchased, on either a monthly or annual
basis, by the City of Ontario pursuant to Sections 15 and 16 of the Chino Basin
Regional Sewage Service Contract [“Regional Contract”] as amended October 19,
1994.” (Notice at 2:5-8.) Section 15 and 16 provided Ontario and other contracting
agencies with a right of first purchase of treated effluent, i.e.,
recycled water. (Jones Decl. ¶¶ 8, 10 & Ex. 1 at §§ 15(A), 16(A)(1),
16(A)(2), (B).) The Regional Contract expired on January 2, 2023. (Jones Decl.
¶ 13.) 
 
Ontario objects to the Agency’s adoption of ordinances,
which purportedly subordinate Ontario’s right of first purchase to the Agency’s
obligations under the judgment in Orange County Water District v. City of
Chino, et al., Orange County Superior Court Case No. 117628 (“OC Judgment”)
to provide a certain flow of Santa Ana River water at Prado Dam for the benefit
for downstream users (RJN Ex. 3, Ordinance No. 114 at § 15 [Agency has
exclusive right to recycled water, with right of first purchase governed by
Ordinance No. 115]; RJN Ex. 4, Ordinance No. 115 at § 27 [“IEUA, within its
discretion, may prioritize the usage of recycled water for meeting the SAR Base
Flow Obligation when it is necessary to do so regardless of the effect on base
supply for purchase”],§ 10(EE) [definition of “Santa Ana River (SAR) Base Flow
Obligation]; Lin Decl. ¶¶ 4-13 [describing SAR Base Flow Obligation]; see
also Jones Decl. ¶ 29 & Ex. 5 at 9 [Agency “manages recycled water to
first meet a Santa Ana River minimum environmental flow discharge requirement…followed
by member agency non-potable reuse demands”].) Ontario and the other municipal
plaintiffs contend that they still have the right to first purchase under the
Regional Contract notwithstanding the contract’s expiration. (Compl. ¶¶ 66-69.)

 
“[T]he question whether a preliminary injunction should be
granted involves two interrelated factors: (1) the likelihood that the
plaintiff will prevail on the merits, and (2) the relative balance of harms
that is likely to result from the granting or denial of interim injunctive
relief.”  (White v. Davis (2003) 30 Cal.4th 528, 554.) However,
before the Court can exercise its discretion and consider the two interrelated
factors, “the applicant must make a prima facie showing of entitlement to
injunctive relief.” (Triple A Machine Shop, Inc. v. State of California
(1989) 213 Cal.App.3d 131, 138, citation omitted.) The applicant must
demonstrate a real threat of immediate and irreparable injury due to the
inadequacy of legal remedies.” (Ibid.) 
 
Ontario fails to show a “real threat of immediate and
irreparable injury due to the inadequacy of legal remedies.” (Triple A
Machine, 213 Cal.App.3d at 138, emphasis added.) In no uncertain terms, the
Manager of Water Resources for Agency declares: “To the best of my knowledge,
IEUA has never refused to honor the right of first purchase. To the best of my
knowledge, IEUA has not informed Ontario that it will refuse to honor Ontario’s
right of first purchase next year or for any particular year after. To the best
of my knowledge, IEUA has no plans to refuse to honor Ontario’s right of first
purchase in the future.” (Lin Decl. ¶ 21; see also Lin Decl. ¶ 38 [“Ontario
is IEUA’s largest recycled water customer and, to the best of my knowledge,
IEUA has no
intent of reducing the base supply of recycled water
available to Ontario or its other customer agencies if IEUA does not have
to”].) Agency also explains that it does not have an incentive to deny Ontario the
right of first purchase under Ordinance No. 115 because it needs the revenue
from the sale of recycled water to pay for operation and maintenance of its
recycled water system, as well as to pay for the debt incurred to construct
capital projects. (Lin Decl. ¶¶ 41, 42 & Ex. O.) 
 
To the extent that Agency needs additional recycled water to
fulfill its obligations under the OC Judgment, Agency avers that it can stop
its replenishment of groundwater and use the resulting additional available water
to meet its obligations under the judgment and the direct use demands of its
customers. (Lin Decl. ¶ 43 & Ex. P [regional groundwater charge has lower
priority than agency direct use demands and obligation of judgment].) 
 
Ontario contends that the uncertainty surrounding the right
of first purchase under Ordinance 115 warrants the issuance of an injunction. This
argument pertains to the justiciability of the present dispute, i.e.,
whether the case is sufficiently ripe for the Court to reach the merits of the
dispute. (Pacific Legal Foundation v. California Coastal Com. (1982) 33
Cal.3d 158, 170.) Based on the present showing, however, Ontario fails to show any
immediate threat that it will not be able to purchase recycled water from
Agency. For the foregoing reasons, Ontario’s assertion that it may not be able
to avail itself of the right of first purchase of recycled water is currently
hypothetical. 
Because Ontario fails to show any immediate threat of harm
to warrant issuance of the requested injunction, the Court does not consider
the likelihood that Ontario will prevail on the merits or the balance of harms
that would result from the proposed preliminary injunction. 
 
The motion for a preliminary injunction is DENIED.