  Case Number:  24STCP00999    Hearing Date:   October 31, 2024    Dept:  86 


 
ROSALIA DISCOE,  


 
 
 
 
 
Petitioner,


 
 
 
 
 
Case No.
 


 
 
 
 
 
24STCP00999




vs.
 
 
KIM JOHNSON, Director, California Department of
  Social Services, in her official capacity,
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Respondent.
 


[TENTATIVE] RULING ON PETITION FOR WRIT OF
  ADMINISTRATIVE MANDAMUS
 
Dept. 86 (Hon. Curtis A. Kin)
 
 




 


 


 


 



Petitioner
Rosalia Discoe petitions for a writ of mandate (1) directing respondent Kim
Johnson, Director, California Department of Social Services (“Department”), in
her official capacity, to set aside the administrative decision denying
protective supervision to petitioner’s minor son and (2) remanding the case for
further proceedings. 
 
I.       Factual Background
 
A.          
In-Home
Supportive Services
 
“In
1973 the Legislature enacted the In-Home Supportive Services (IHSS) program to
enable aged, blind or disabled poor to avoid institutionalization by remaining
in their homes with proper supportive services.” (Miller v. Woods (1983)
148 Cal.App.3d 862, 867.) “The Department and its director are responsible for
administering the IHSS program in compliance with state and federal laws.
[Citations.] The Department promulgates regulations to implement the statutes [citations]
while the county welfare departments administer the program under the state’s
general supervision. The county departments process applications for IHSS
assistance [citations], determine the individual’s needs and authorize
services. [citation.].” (Id. at 868.) 
 
The
IHSS program is governed by Welfare and Institutions Code sections 12300, et
seq., and the Department’s Manual of Policies and Procedures (MPP),
sections 30-700, et seq. The services that may be authorized through the
IHSS program are specified in MPP sections 30-757.11 through 30-757.19. (See
RJN Ex. A.) The Department issues additional guidance on IHSS benefits in
All-County Letters (“ACL”) to county departments. (RJN Ex. B [“ACL No. 15-25”].)
 
B.          
Protective
Supervision
 
Protective
supervision is an IHSS supportive service. (Welf. & Inst. Code § 12300(b).)
Protective supervision “consists of observing recipient behavior and
intervening as appropriate in order to safeguard the recipient against injury,
hazard, or accident.” (RJN Ex. A at MPP § 30-757.17.) It is a benefit available
for observing the behavior of “non-self-directing, confused, mentally impaired,
or mentally ill persons only.” (RJN Ex. A at MPP § 30-757.171.) 
 
Protective
supervision is only authorized if “[a]t the time of the initial assessment or
reassessment, a need exists for twenty-four-hours-a-day of supervision in order
for the recipient to remain at home safely.” (RJN Ex. A at MPP § 30-757.173(a).)
Furthermore, protective supervision must be limited to the functional
limitations of the recipient and cannot be authorized for routine childcare or
supervision. (RJN Ex. A at MPP § 30-763.456(d).) 
 
“The
Department’s regulations, and case law, define the purpose and form of
protective supervision, which, in essence, determines the eligible recipients
of this benefit…. ‘“Protective supervision” services authorized by section
12300 are “for monitoring the behavior of nonself-directing, confused, mentally
impaired, or mentally ill persons....” [Citation.] … To be eligible for such
services, an individual must show “that twenty-four hour need exists ... and
that the recipient can live at home safely if protective supervision is
provided.” [Citation.] [¶] Some recipients are old, suffering degenerative
diseases. Others are young but retarded, epileptic, blind, brain damaged or
schizophrenic. The recipients cannot protect themselves from injury. Some are
self-destructive. For example, one autistic, blind and brain-damaged child
lapses “into seizures and temper tantrums ... venting his frustrations by
banging his head against a wall.” Others cannot control normal but potentially
hazardous activities such as cooking or smoking a cigarette.’ [Citation.]” (Calderon
v. Anderson (1996) 45 Cal.App.4th 607, 614-15, quoting Miller v. Woods,
148 Cal.App.3d at 869.) “‘Protective supervision’ appears to be similar to care
given small children, that is, anticipating everyday hazards and intervening to
avert harm.” (Marshall v. McMahon (1993) 17 Cal.App.4th 1841, 1847.) “[E]ligibility
for IHSS benefits must generally be reassessed on an annual basis. [Citations.]”
(Norasingh v. Lightbourne (2014) 229 Cal.App.4th 740, 754.)
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
C.          
County
Denies Protective Supervision to Minor
 
Petitioner
is the mother of a minor who is diagnosed with autism spectrum disorder,
developmental delay, and optic nerve dysplasia.[1]
(AR 3.) Petitioner’s minor son is functionally limited by visual impairment
with difficulty in depth perception, speech delay, and lack of coordination. (AR
3.) Petitioner applied for IHSS on the minor son’s behalf. (AR 3.) 
 
On
October 25, 2022, a County of Los Angeles (“County”) social worker conducted a telephone
assessment for petitioner’s son. (AR 372.) On November 2, 2022, the County
conducted a face-to-face assessment at petitioner’s home. (AR 372.) On November
28, 2022, the County issued a Notice of Action that authorized 19 hours and 20
minutes per month of in-home supportive services, effective August 29, 2022,
while denying protective supervision services. (AR 3, 368, 370.) The Notice of
Action stated that petitioner’s son was not eligible for protective supervision
because the minor does not need more supervision than an unimpaired child of
the same age and the minor can remain at home safely without 24-hour
supervision. (AR 370.) 
 
D.          
Respondent
Affirms Denial of Protective Supervision
 
On
January 5, 2023, petitioner filed an appeal, challenging the County’s denial of
protective supervision. (AR 3.) On March 1, 2023, ALJ Ryan Bradley (“ALJ”)
presided over the telephonic hearing for petitioner’s son. (AR 466, 468.) Petitioner
appeared at the telephonic hearing with her authorized representative, while a
County hearing representative and a social worker appeared on behalf of the County.
(AR 466.)
 
On
April 5, 2023, the ALJ issued his post-hearing decision sustaining the denial
of protective supervision. (AR 2.) The ALJ engaged in a four-step process to
determine whether the minor is eligible for protective supervision. (AR 9.)
 
First,
the ALJ analyzed whether the minor is nonself-directing due to a mental
impairment or mental illness. (AR 9.) The ALJ found petitioner’s son suffers
from a mental impairment and is nonself-directing, i.e., unable to
assess danger and risk of harm because of the mental impairment. (AR 10-13.) In
making this finding, the ALJ relied on the SOC 821 form completed by minor’s
treating physician, a psychological report, a social worker assessment, an
Individualized Education Plan assessment, and live testimony.
 
Second,
the ALJ analyzed whether the minor is likely to engage in potentially dangerous
activities and whether the minor has the physical ability to put himself at
risk of harm. (AR 13.) The ALJ found petitioner’s son meets this step as
well.  The ALJ based this finding on
petitioner’s testimony about her son’s unsafe climbing and unsafe touching and
operating of the stove. (AR 13.) The ALJ also considered the treating physician’s
opinion that petitioner’s son is physically capable of placing himself in danger.
(AR 13.) The ALJ found environmental modifications do not eliminate the risk of
harm completely. (AR 13.)
 
Third,
the ALJ analyzed whether the minor needs more supervision than a minor of
comparable age who is not mentally impaired. (AR 14.) The ALJ found the minor
in this case does not need more supervision than a neurotypical child of the
same age because neurotypical children also engage in similar dangerous
behaviors, i.e., climbing on furniture and exploring countertops and
cabinets. (AR 14.) The ALJ determined it is not unusual for an unimpaired child
of the same age to test physical limits by attempting to touch hot surfaces. (AR
14.) The ALJ also opined that it is not unusual for an unimpaired child to be
curious about stove knobs. (AR 14.) As such, the ALJ found that petitioner’s
son requires the same level of supervision as an unimpaired child of the same
age to remain safely at home. (AR 14.)
 
Because
the ALJ did not find that petitioner’s son needs more supervision than a minor
of comparable age who is not mentally impaired, the ALJ did not move to step
four and determine whether 24 hour-a-day supervision is needed. (AR 10.)
 
II.      Procedural History
 
            On
March 28, 2024, petitioner filed a verified Petition for Writ of Administrative
Mandamus. On August 12, 2024, respondent filed an Answer.
 
            On
September 4, 2024, petitioner filed an opening brief. On October 2, 2024, respondent
filed an opposition. On October 15, 2024, petitioner filed a reply. Petitioner
has also lodged the administrative record and joint appendix. 
 
III.     Standard of Review
 
Under CCP § 1094.5(b),
the pertinent issues are whether the respondent has proceeded without
jurisdiction, whether there was a fair trial, and whether there was a
prejudicial abuse of discretion. An abuse of discretion is established if the
agency has not proceeded in the manner required by law, the decision is not
supported by the findings, or the findings are not supported by the evidence.
(CCP § 1094.5(b).)
 
The Court exercises its
independent judgment in reviewing denials of applications for public
assistance. (See Norasingh v. Lightbourne (2014) 229 Cal.App.4th 740,
752.) Under the independent judgment test, “the trial court not only examines
the administrative record for errors of law, but also exercises its independent
judgment upon the evidence disclosed in a limited trial de novo.” (Bixby v. Pierno (1971) 4 Cal.3d 130, 143.) The court
must draw its own reasonable inferences from the evidence and make its own
credibility determinations. (Morrison v.
Housing Authority of the City of Los Angeles Board of Commissioners (2003)
107 Cal. App. 4th 860, 868.)  
 
An agency is presumed to
have regularly performed its official duties. (Evid. Code § 664.) “In
exercising its independent judgment, a trial court must afford a strong
presumption of correctness concerning the administrative findings, and the
party challenging the administrative decision bears the burden of convincing
the court that the administrative findings are contrary to the weight of the
evidence.”  (Fukuda v. City of Angels (1999) 20 Cal.4th 805, 817, internal
quotations omitted.) 
 
IV.     Analysis
 
A.          
Request
for Judicial Notice
 
The
Court rules on petitioner’s requests for judicial notice as follows: 
 
1.           
Exhibit
A – Department Manual of Policies and Procedures, Chapter 30-700 – GRANTED
(Evid. Code § 452(b))
 
2.           
Exhibit
B – All-County Letter No. 15-25, Protective Supervision Clarifications –
GRANTED (Evid. Code § 452(c))
 
3.           
Exhibit
C – All-County Letter No. 98-87 (Evid. Code § 452(c)) – GRANTED (Id. §
452(c))
 
B.          
Merits
 
ACL
15-25 sets forth a four-step process in determining whether a mentally impaired
or mentally ill minor is entitled to protective supervision:
 
1)    Is the minor nonself-directing
due to the mental impairment or mental illness? 
2)    Is the minor likely to engage in
potentially dangerous activities? 
3)    Does the minor need more
supervision than a minor of comparable age who is not mentally impaired or
mentally ill? 
4)    Is 24-hour supervision needed
for the minor to remain at home safely? 
 
(RJN
Ex. B at 6-7.) It is undisputed that the minor has been diagnosed with autism
spectrum disorder and is therefore mentally impaired. (AR 10.) Thus, the ALJ
proceeded with the four-step process to determine whether the minor is eligible
for protective supervision. 
 
1.         
The
Minor Is Nonself-Directing
 
With
respect to the first step of the four-step process, under MPP § 30-757.171,
petitioner must show that her son is “nonself-directing, confused, mentally
impaired or mentally ill.” “[N]onself-direction is an inability, due to a
mental impairment/mental illness, for individuals to assess danger and the risk
of harm, and therefore, the individuals would most likely engage in potentially
dangerous activities that may cause self-harm.” (RJN Ex. B at 3.)
 
As
an initial matter, based on the use of the word “or” in the Department’s
Manual, it is questionable whether the minor must also be nonself-directing if
found to be mentally impaired.  (Compare
RJN Ex. A at MPP § 30-757.171 [“Supervision is available for observing the
behavior of nonself-directing, confused, mentally impaired, or mentally
ill persons only”], emphasis added) with RJN Ex. B. at 2-3 [All County
Letter stating “a person must be both mentally impaired or mentally ill and
nonself-directing to be eligible for Protective Supervision,” emphasis in
original].)  “[U]se of the word ‘or’ in a
statute indicates an intention to use it disjunctively so as to designate
alternative or separate categories. (White v. County of Sacramento
(1982) 31 Cal.3d 676, 680; see also Yamaha Corp. of America v. State Bd. of
Equalization (1998) 19 Cal.4th 1, 10-11 [regulations have binding force of
law, unlike agency interpretations].) 
 
Regardless,
the first step is not in dispute. The ALJ found that the minor is
nonself-directing, and the Court agrees with that finding. The ALJ found that
the minor is severely impaired in memory, moderately impaired in orientation,
and severely impaired in judgment. (AR 10-12; see also RJN Ex. B at 2,
citing MPP § 30-756.372 [mental function evaluated based on memory,
orientation, and judgment].) 
 
With
respect to memory, the ALJ credited the opinion of the minor’s treating
physician that the minor “needs repetition and reminders to remain on task and
his learning is delayed.” (AR 10-11.) The ALJ also noted that the minor climbs
on furniture multiple times per day, even though his parents told him not to do
so. (AR 11.) With respect to orientation, the minor’s treating physician noted
that the minor has some awareness of his surroundings. (AR 11.) Petitioner
testified that the minor cannot identify his own body parts. (AR 11.) 
 
With
respect to judgment, the minor’s treating physician opined that the minor’s
judgment is severely impaired and assessed the minor as having limited safety
awareness and eloping. (AR 12.) Petitioner also testified that the minor climbs
furniture and counters every day and stacks hampers and unstable objects to
climb upward. (AR 12.) The minor has also twice been taken to the emergency
room because he severely injured himself while climbing. (AR 12.) Petitioner
also testified that about once a day, the minor will attempt to touch a hot
stove or turn on the stove, despite having burned his finger on the stove and
petitioner’s admonitions not to touch the stove. (AR 12.)
 
            Based on the foregoing evidence, the
ALJ determined the minor to be nonself-directing, finding: “The weight of the
evidence shows that the recipient engages in dangerous behaviors, cannot
remember or understand the dangers that he encounters and does not retain
sufficient judgment to avoid or stop them from occurring.” (AR 12-13.)
 
2.         
The
Minor Is Likely to Engage in Potentially Dangerous Activities
 
            With respect to the second step, as
discussed in the ALJ’s evaluation of the minor’s self-direction, the ALJ found
that the minor engages in two potentially dangerous activities: unsafe climbing
and unsafe touching and operating of the stove. (AR 13.)   This finding is also not in dispute.
 
3.         
The
Minor Requires More Supervision Than Routine Childcare
 
With
respect to the third step, the critical dispute between the parties is whether
the minor needs “more supervision than a minor of comparable age who is not
mentally impaired/mentally ill.” (RJN Ex. B at 7 [ACL 15-25].) “Protective supervision…[is]
limited to protective supervision needed because of the functional limitations
of the recipient. This service shall not include routine child care or
supervision.” (MPP § 30-763.456(d).) “More supervision” can be “more time, more
intensity, or both.” (RJN Ex. B at 7.) “The additional supervision required
must be significantly more than routine child care, and not only be related to
the functional limitations of the child, but also allow the child to remain
safely in their own home with this assistance.” (RJN Ex. B at 7.) 
 
a.           
Whether
ALJ Proceeded in Manner Required by Law
 
Petitioner
argues that the ALJ failed to proceed in the manner required by law when
finding that the minor did not need more supervision than an unimpaired minor
of comparable age because (1) the ALJ did not consider whether the minor
required more intense supervision, (2) the ALJ did not consider the degree of
impairment in the minor’s memory, orientation, and judgment, and (3) the minor
was denied protective supervision based solely on his age. 
 
            With respect to the first two
arguments, “implicit in [Code of Civil Procedure] section
1094.5 is a requirement that the agency which renders the challenged decision
must set forth findings to bridge the analytic gap between the raw evidence and
ultimate decision or order.” (Topanga Assn. for a Scenic Community v. County
of Los Angeles (1974) 11 Cal.3d 506, 515.) The California Supreme Court has
explained that “among other functions, … findings enable the reviewing court to
trace and examine the agency's mode of analysis.” (Id. at 516.)
 
Addressing
the second argument first, this Court finds that the ALJ considered the degree
of impairment in the minor’s memory, orientation, and judgment. Although the
ALJ found the minor to be severely impaired in memory and judgment (AR 10-12),
the ALJ found that the required supervision of the minor is not more than the
supervision required of a neurotypical three-year-old, as all three-year-olds climb
and touch the stove and require close supervision to prevent injury from these
behaviors. (AR 14 [“It is determined that the level of supervision typically
expected to be necessary for caring for unimpaired children of that age would
involve either preventing or closely supervising the above activities so as to
ensure the child’s safety”].) The ALJ also found that the “level of supervision
typically provided to an unimpaired 3-year old child would adequately address
the above hazards.” (AR 14.) Thus, even with the minor’s functional
limitations, the ALJ found that more supervision, either in time or intensity,
compared to an unimpaired three-year old is not required.
 
The
Court also finds that the ALJ considered the intensity of supervision of the
minor required. The ALJ discusses testimony reflecting the frequency of the
minor’s climbing and stove-related behaviors, both on a daily basis. (AR
12-13.) With respect to climbing, the ALJ stated that the “rate of engagement”
in climbing is “not found to be more frequent than that of an unimpaired child
of the same age.” (AR 14.) With respect to touching and operating of the stove,
by stating that “[i]t is also not unusual for an unimpaired child of the same
age as the [minor] to test his physical limits by holding his hand close to a
hot stove surface, even when warned by a loving parent not to do so” (AR 14),
the ALJ essentially found that the minor’s daily touching and operating of the
stove is not more frequent than a neurotypical minor of the same age. (Southern
Pacific Transportation Co. v. State Bd. of Equalization
(1987) 191 Cal.App.3d 938, 954 [“Administrative agency findings are generally
permitted considerable latitude with regard to their precision, formality, and
matters reasonably implied therein”].) Although
the word “intensity” is not stated in the determination that more supervision
was not needed, the ALJ acknowledged that “more supervision” could be more in
time and/or more in intensity. (AR 9, 13-14.) Thus, for this reason, combined
with the finding that the level of supervision provided to an unimpaired
three-year-old would adequately address the potentially dangerous activities, it
is apparent the ALJ considered intensity in determining that the minor does not
require more supervision. 
 
With
respect to the third argument, the Court disagrees that the ALJ denied
protective supervision based solely on the minor’s age. The ALJ did state “[a]n
unimpaired 3-year-old child will tend to be very closely supervised solely by
virtue of his age, exactly because a child of that age will engage in dangerous
activities without adequately weighing the consequences.” (AR 14.) However, the
ALJ then found that, with respect to the potentially dangerous activities at
issue here (i.e., unsafe climbing and touching and operating of the
stove), other three-year-olds without mental impairments engage in these
behaviors and the same level of supervision required to prevent injury to such neurotypical
minors would adequately address the risk of injury to the minor. (AR 14.) Thus,
the ALJ considered not just the age of the minor but also the behaviors at
issue and attendant risks of injury to determine that the minor, compared to
neurotypical minors of the same age, did not require more supervision. 
 
For
the foregoing reasons, the Court finds that the ALJ proceeded in the manner
required by law. 
 
b.    Whether the Weight of the
Evidence Supports Findings
 
As
an alternative argument, petitioner argues that the ALJ’s findings are not
supported by the evidence. As stated in section III above, the Court looks to
the weight of the evidence in determining whether the finding that the minor
does not require more supervision compared to a neurotypical three-year-old is
supported by the evidence. 
 
According
to the Guidelines for Early Learning in Child Care Home Settings from the
California Department of Education (“CDE”), a preschool-age child “may need
help” if the child “[d]oes not recognize dangerous situations such as walking
in traffic or jumping from high places.” (AR 102, 148, 163, 174 [minor was in
preschool], 303-04.) The CDE also states that around 36 months, or 3 years of
age, “[C]hildren demonstrate an understanding of cause and effect by making
predictions about what could happen and reflect upon what caused something to happen.”
(AR 312.) The CDE provides an example of a child seeing a bandage on another
child’s knee and asking, “what happened?” (AR 312.)
 
Inconsistent
with the decision’s finding that a neurotypical three-year-old also engages in
unsafe activities “without adequately weighing the consequences” (AR 14), the
CDE guidelines depict a typical three-year-old as having awareness that certain
situations may be unsafe. By contrast, petitioner’s testimony during the
administrative hearing indicates that the minor has impaired safety awareness.
Petitioner testified that the minor “has burnt his finger on the stove but
still continues to try to touch the stove despite the [petitioner]’s
admonitions for him not to do that.” (AR 12.) The ALJ also noted petitioner’s
statement that the minor “twice injured himself so severely while climbing that
he had to be taken to the emergency room.” (AR 12.) Despite having twice
suffered severe injury, the minor “climbs furniture and counters every day and
will stack hampers and unstable objects like toys to climb upward.” (AR 12.) Indeed,
the ALJ concluded that the minor “does not retain sufficient memory,
orientation, and judgment to assess danger and risk of harm.” (AR 12.) Petitioner’s
testimony indicates that, because the minor does not recognize the potential
danger in his behaviors, more intense supervision of the minor compared to a neurotypical
minor of comparable age is necessary to prevent injuries to the minor. 
 
Although
the CDE guidelines do not reference climbing, as argued by respondent, this is
immaterial. Jumping from a high place is akin to falling from a high place in
that both could lead to injury. The material question here is whether the minor
recognizes the danger from falling from a high place. Despite severely injuring
himself twice while climbing, the minor continues to climb. (AR 12.) The minor
appears to lack safety awareness, which neurotypical three-year-olds have,
according to CDE guidelines. Failure to recognize danger indicates that
supervision beyond routine childcare is required. 
 
            Further, the minor’s teacher and
therapist stated that the minor requires supervision from arrival at school to
the time he leaves school due to his potentially dangerous behaviors, including
his climbing while unsupervised. (AR 102, 103.) Moreover, the 2022 Psychological
Report assessed the minor as an 8-month-old in the area of health and safety
when the minor was 2 years and 10 months. (AR 127, 145; see also AR 185
[2022 Psychoeducational Evaluation scored minor as “extremely low” in
health/safety].) The minor’s 2022 Individualized Education Program placed him
in a separate classroom for 600 minutes a week of individual and small group
instruction. (AR 162.) In addition, the 2022 Psychoeducational Evaluation found,
“[r]elative to individuals of comparable age, [the minor] is currently
functioning at the 2nd percentile, and [his] overall level of
cognitive ability can be described as in the below average range of
functioning.” (AR 186.) This additional evidence indicates that the minor
requires more intense supervision than an unimpaired minor of comparable age.  
 
            Respondent notes that the minor’s
cognitive development scored at low average, not significantly below average.
(AR 373, 479.) This cognitive development score appears to be an overall score
that includes thinking, reasoning, and remembering. (AR 373.) A low average
score does not preclude the need for protective supervision, especially
considering that the minor has scored “extremely low” in the specific area of
health and safety, the minor is equivalent to an 8-month-old in terms of safety,
and his teacher and therapist attest to the minor’s need for constant supervision.
(AR 102-03, 145, 185.)
 
            Based on the foregoing, even though
the Court finds that the ALJ proceeded in the manner required by law, the
weight of the evidence demonstrates that the minor requires more supervision—at
least in terms of intensity—than routine childcare.
 
4.         
Respondent
Must Determine Whether Minor Requires 24-Hour Supervision
 
            Under MPP § 30-757.173(a),
petitioner must show that her son requires “twenty-four-hours-a-day supervision
in order . . . to remain at home safely.” 
However, because the ALJ concluded that the minor did not require more
supervision than an unimpaired minor of comparable age, he did not reach this additional
issue.  On remand, respondent must make
this determination.
 
V.      Conclusion
 
For the foregoing reasons, the petition is GRANTED.
Respondent is ordered to set aside the decision denying the minor protective
supervision.  The matter is remanded for
reconsideration in light of the Court’s opinion, including a determination of
whether minor requires 24-hour supervision. Pursuant to Local Rule 3.231(n), petitioner
shall prepare, serve, and ultimately file a proposed judgment and writ of
mandate. 
 


