 Case Number:  24TRCV01056    Hearing Date:   June 12, 2024    Dept:  P Demurrer with Motion to StrikeThe court considered the moving, opposition, and reply papers.RULINGThe demurrer is SUSTAINED with leave to amend. The motion to strike is GRANTED with leave to amend. Plaintiff is instructed to file an amended complaint within 20 days of notice of this order.BACKGROUNDOn March 27, 2024, plaintiff Elana T. Mossazadeh (“Plaintiff”) filed a complaint against defendant American Honda Motor Company, Inc. (“Defendant”), alleging the following causes of action: (1) violation of subdivision (d) of Civil Code § 1793.2; (2) violation of subdivision (b) of Civil Code § 1793.2; (3) violation of subdivision (a)(3) of Civil Code § 1793.2; (4) breach of the implied warranty of merchantability; and (5) fraudulent inducement – concealment.The complaint alleges that, on March 5, 2021, Plaintiff purchased a 2021 Honda Odyssey, bearing vehicle identification number 5FNRL6H84MB022473, which was manufactured and or distributed by Defendant. (Compl. ¶ 6.) A written warranty accompanied the sale of the subjectvehicle. (Id. at ¶ 7, Exh. A.) It is further alleged that the subject vehicle possessed a “sensing defect” that were covered by the warranty and substantially impaired the subject vehicle’s use, value and safety. (Id. at ¶¶ 11-12, 14.) Defendant is alleged to have concealed this “sensing defect” prior to Plaintiff’s purchase of the subject vehicle. (Id. at ¶ 64.)Now, Defendants move to the strike portions of the complaint that support a claim for punitive damages, which consists of Paragraphs 31 and 38 as well as the prayer for punitive and exemplary damages. Plaintiff opposes.LEGAL AUTHORITYA. DemurrerA demurrer can be used only to challenge defects that appear on the face of the pleading under attack or from matters outside the pleading that are judicially noticeable. (Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311, 318.) “To survive a demurrer, the complaint need only allege facts sufficient to state a cause of action; each evidentiary fact that might eventually form part of the plaintiff’s proof need not be alleged.” (C.A. v. William S. Hart Union High School Dist. (2012) 53 Cal.4th 861, 872.) For the purpose of testing the sufficiency of the cause of action, the demurrer admits the truth of all material facts properly pleaded. (Aubry v. Tri-City Hospital Dist. (1992) 2 Cal.4th 962, 966–967.) A demurrer “does not admit contentions, deductions or conclusions of fact or law.” (Daar v. Yellow Cab Co. (1967) 67 Cal.2d 695, 713.)A demurrer tests the legal sufficiency of the pleadings and will be sustained only where the pleading is defective on its face. (City of Atascadero v. Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith, Inc. (1998) 68 Cal.App.4th 445, 459.) “If substantial facts which constitute a cause of action are averred in the complaint or can be inferred by reasonable intendment from the matters which are pleaded, although the allegations of these facts are intermingled with conclusions of law, the complaint is not subject to demurrer for insufficiency.” (Krug v. Meeham (1952) 109 Cal.App.2d 274, 277.)B. Motion to StrikeThe court may, upon a motion, or at any time in its discretion, and upon terms it deems proper, strike any irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted in any pleading. (Code Civ. Proc. § 436(a).) The court may also strike all or any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of this state, a court rule, or an order of the court. (Code Civ. Proc. § 436(b).) Thegrounds for moving to strike must appear on the face of the pleading or from any matter of which the court is required to take judicial notice. (Code Civ. Proc. § 437.)DISCUSSIONAs a preliminary matter, the Court finds that the Defendant has complied with the meet and confer requirement pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure §§ 430.41 and 435.5. (Hernandez Decls. at ¶ 2.)A. Whether the Fifth Cause of Action for Fraudulent Inducement – Concealment is Time-BarredPursuant to Code of Civil Procedure § 338(d), a fraud cause of action is “not deemed to have accrued until the discovery, by the aggrieved party, of the facts constituting the fraud or mistake.”Defendant argues that the fifth cause of action is time-barred because the claim was not brought within the three-year statute of limitations under Civil Code § 338(d), and it reasons that the claim accrued at the date of purchase on March 5, 2021 because it is alleged that the subject vehicle was equipped with the “sensing defect” and Plaintiff would not have purchased the subject vehicle had she known about this defect. (Demurrer at pp. 10-11; Compl. ¶¶ 6, 64, 70-77.) The instant case was not filed until March 27, 2024. Defendant further contends that Plaintiff’s appeal to various forms of tolling are inadequate because sufficient allegations have not been alleged to support such relief.Notably, Plaintiff’s opposition fails to address this issue. Thus, Plaintiff has effectively conceded this issue. (See Rudick v. State Bd. Of Optometry (2019) 41 Cal.App.5th 77, 90.)Even if Plaintiff had raised argument in opposition to this issue, the Court finds Defendant’s argument to be persuasive because sufficient facts have not been alleged regarding the discovery of the alleged fraud. To rely on the delayed discovery rule, a plaintiff “must specifically plead facts to show (1) the time and manner of discovery and (2) the inability to have made earlier discovery despite reasonable diligence,” and “conclusory allegations will not withstand demurrer.” (Fox v. Ethicon Endo-Surgery, Inc. (2005) 35 Cal.4th 797, 808.) The complaint conclusory alleges that the alleged concealment was not discovered until “shortly before filing this Complaint as the Subject Vehicle continued to exhibit symptoms of defects following Defendant's unsuccessful attempts to repair them.” (Compl. ¶¶ 23, 26-29.) However,this inadequately states the time and manner of the discovery, and why Plaintiff was unable to make this discovery sooner. For instance, there are no allegations to suggest when Plaintiff brought the subject vehicle to repair the alleged “sensing defect” and for how many times.Additionally, based on the allegations in the complaint, Plaintiff presumes that class action tolling under Am. Pipe & Const. Co. v. Utah, 414 U.S. 538 (1974) automatically applies. (Compl. ¶¶ 24-25.) In order for class action tolling to apply, it must be alleged that (1) the prior class action “sufficiently put defendants on notice of the substance and nature of plaintiff's claims” and (2) tolling would “serve to further economy and efficiency of litigation.” (Jolly v. Eli Lilly & Co. (1988) 44 Cal.3d 1130, 1122.) Upon review of the complaint, Plaintiff has failed to alleged a prior class action put Defendant on notice of the substance and nature of Plaintiff’s claims, and there are no allegations to suggest Plaintiff actively protected her rights or that she delayed in filing suit in reliance of either class action. (American Pipe, supra, 414 U.S. at pg. 561 (conc. opn. of Blackmun, J.) (reasoning that this form of tolling is not meant “to attract and save members of the purported class who have slept on their rights.”).)Accordingly, demurrer to the fifth cause of action is sustained on this ground.B. Whether the Fifth Cause of Action is Pleaded with Specificity to State a Claim of Fraud.Defendant also argues that the fifth cause of action is subject to demurrer because it has not been pleaded with the requisite specificity. (Demurrer at pp. 4-8.) In particular, Defendant argues that the sufficient facts have not been alleged that Defendant had exclusive knowledge of the alleged defect or that the parties had a direct transaction to trigger a duty to disclose the alleged defect.To state a claim for fraudulent inducement-concealment, a plaintiff must allege: (1) the defendant “concealed or suppressed a material fact,” (2) the defendant was “under a duty to disclose the fact to the plaintiff,” (3) the defendant “intentionally concealed or suppressed the fact with the intent to defraud the plaintiff,” (4) the plaintiff was “unaware of the fact and would not have acted as he did if he had known of the concealed or suppressed fact,” and (5) “as a result of the concealment or suppression of the fact, the plaintiff must have sustained damage.” (Bigler-Engler v. Breg, Inc. (2017) 7 Cal.App.5th 276, 310–11.)Absent a fiduciary relationship between the parties, a duty to disclose can arise in only three circumstances: (1) the defendant had exclusive knowledge of the material fact; (2) thedefendant actively concealed the material fact; or (3) the defendant made partial representations while also suppressing the material fact. (Bigler-Engler, supra, 7 Cal.App.5th at 311; LiMandri v. Judkins (1997) 52 Cal.App.4th 326, 336.) Such circumstances “presuppose[ ] the existence of some other relationship between the plaintiff and defendant in which a duty to disclose can arise.” (LiMandri, supra, 52 Cal.App.4th at p. 337.) The California Supreme Court “has described the necessary relationship giving rise to a duty to disclose as a ‘transaction’ between the plaintiff and defendant ….” (Bigler-Engler, supra, 7 Cal.App.5th at p. 311; Warner Construction Corp. v. City of Los Angeles (1970) 2 Cal.3d 285, 294 [“In transactions which do not involve fiduciary or confidential relations”]; Hoffman v. 162 North Wolfe LLC (2014) 228 Cal.App.4th 1178, 1187–89 [rejecting concealment claim where plaintiffs “were not involved in a transaction with the parties they claim defrauded them”]; LiMandri, supra, 52 Cal.App.4th at p. 337 [“such a relationship can only come into being as a result of some sort of transaction between the parties”].)Defendant contends that it did not have exclusive knowledge of the alleged defect because it is alleged that this alleged defect was publicly disclosed through the NHTSA and there was no direct transaction between the parties. (Demurrer at pg. 6.) In this regard, Defendant argues that sufficient facts have not been alleged to suggest that Defendant’s authorized dealerships are its agents for the purpose of selling cares. (Id. at pg. 7.) Moreover, Defendant asserts that the express warranty does not create a duty to disclose because it is not part of the sale contract. (Id. at pg. 6, relying on Ford Motor Warranty Cases (2023) 89 Cal.App.5th 1324 611, 619-620.)In opposition, Plaintiff maintains that the fifth cause of action has been sufficiently alleged and reasons that a transaction relationship is not required under California law for the manufacturer to have a duty to disclose. Regardless, Plaintiff asserts that for pleading purposes, her allegations are sufficient to establish a transactional relationship. (Opposition at pg. 7, relying on Dhital v. Nissan North America (2022) 84 Cal.App.5th 828.The plaintiffs in Dhital sued Nissan for Song-Beverly violations. They alleged the transmission was faulty and unreliable, and that it placed them at risk for an accident though they did not allege they had actually been injured. The pleading included a claim for fraudulent inducement. Plaintiffs alleged that Nissan concealed defects it had a duty to disclose in order to induce the purchase. The trial court sustained Nissan’s demurrer to the fraudulent inducement cause of action on the basis that it was barred by the economic loss doctrine. Within its decision reversing the lower court’s decision, the appellate court found that:“[a]t the pleading stage (and in the absence of a more developed argument by Nissan on this point), we conclude Plaintiff’s allegations are sufficient. Plaintiff alleged that they bought the car from a Nissan dealership, that Nissan backed the car with an express warranty, and that Nissan’s authorized dealerships are its agents for purposes of the sale of Nissan vehicles to consumers. In light of these allegations, we decline to hold Plaintiff’s claim is barred on the ground there was no relationship requiring Nissan to disclose known defects.”(Dhital, supra, 84 Cal.App.5th at pp. 727-729.)However, unlike the defendant in Dhital, Defendant here has set forth a satisfactory argument as to why it should not be summarily presumed that an agency relationship existed between Defendant and the dealership that sold the subject vehicle to Plaintiff. “[A] dealer or retailer may in a layman's view be an agent of the [manufacturer], but he is not an agent in the legal sense of that relationship.” (Avalon Painting Co. v. Alert Lumber Co. (1965) 234 Cal.App.2d 178, 184; see also Herremans v. BMW of N. Am., LLC, No. (C.D.Cal. 2014) 2014 WL 5017843, at *6 [“[t]he relationship between automobile manufacturers and their dealers has been examined by a host of courts throughout the country, all of which have agreed that dealers are not ‘agents’ of manufacturers.”].) Plaintiff’s complaint does not allege that Defendant’s authorized dealerships are its agents. Critically, “fraud must be pleaded specifically; general and conclusory allegations do not suffice.” (Lazar v. Superior Court (1996) 12 Cal.4th 631, 645.) Thus, without sufficiently alleging the existence of a transactional relationship, the complaint fails to sufficiently allege the existence of a duty.Accordingly, because the complaint does not sufficiently allege a direct transaction between the parties, the fifth cause of action for fraudulent concealment has not been sufficiently alleged. Therefore, the demurrer is sustained on this ground as well. For the sake of judicial economy, the court declines to address Defendant’s remaining argument regarding the economic loss rule.C. Motion to StrikeBecause Defendant’s demurrer has been sustained as to the fifth cause of action, and the motion to strike attacks the punitive damages that would flow only from that cause of action, it is GRANTED.CONCLUSIONBased on the foregoing, the demurrer is SUSTAINED and the motion to strike is GRANTED with leave to amend. Plaintiff is ordered to file any amended complaint within 20 days of notice of this order.Moving party is ordered to give notice of this ruling.