 Case Number:  21TRCV00376    Hearing Date:   June 12, 2024    Dept:  P Motion for Summary Judgment [or Summary Adjudication]The court considered the moving, opposition, and reply papers.RULINGPlaintiff David Trozak’s Motion for Summary Judgment or in the alternative, Motion for Summary Adjudication is DENIED.JUDCIAL NOTICEPlaintiff, David Trozak requests that the Court take judicial notice of the following documents pursuant to California Rules of Evidence §§ 452 and 453:1. Exhibit 1 – copy of the Recorded Grant Deed showing that Plaintiff David Trozak is the owner of the real property known as 721 30th Street, Hermosa Beach, California 90254.2. Exhibit 2 - Recorded Grant Deed showing that Defendants Kenneth Hartley and Dorothy Forba owned 723 30th Street, Hermosa Beach, California 90254 beginning on or around September 28, 2006.3. Exhibit 3 - Recorded Grant Deed showing that Defendants Kenneth Hartley and Dorothy Forba sold 723 30th Street, Hermosa Beach, California 90254 on or around November 1, 2023.Under Evidence Code section 452, the Court may take judicial notice of “[f]acts and propositions that are not reasonably subject to dispute and are capable of immediate and accurate determination by resort to sources of reasonably indisputable accuracy,” and must take judicial notice of such facts and propositions if a party so requests and provides sufficient notice to the adverse party. (Evid. Code, §§ 452, subd. (h) & 453.)However, the court does not “take judicial notice of the truth of factual matters asserted therein.” (Ramsden v. Western Union (1977) 71 Cal.App.3d 873, 879.) “To go beyond notice of the existence of a document to an interpretation of its meaning constitutes improper consideration of evidentiary matters.” (Middlebrook-Anderson Co. v. Southwest Sav. & Loan Assn. (1971) 18 Cal.App.3d 1023, 1038.)The Court takes judicial notice of the documents, but not the facts stated therein.EVIDENTIARY OBJECTIONSDefendants Kenneth Hartley and Dorothy Forba object to portions of David Trozak’s Declaration in Support of his Motion for Summary Judgment or in the alternative, Motion for Summary Adjudication. Plaintiff argues that the evidentiary objections should be overruled because they are meritless and Trozak’s declaration is made pursuant to his personal knowledge.Overruled: 1-16Sustained: NoneIn support of their opposition, Defendants submitted a “Separate Statement of Additional Disputed Facts.” As that document is not contemplated by Code of Civil Procedure section 437c or the California Rules of Court, the court declines to consider it.BACKGROUNDI. PROCEDURAL BACKGROUNDOn May 19, 2021, Plaintiff David Trozak (“Plaintiff”) filed the Complaint against Ken Hartley, Dorothy Forba, and Does 1 through 10 (collectively, “Defendants”). According to the Complaint, Plaintiff owns and has at all times relevant herein resided at the real property known as 721 30th Street, Hermosa Beach, California (“Property”). (Complaint ¶ 8.) Defendants owned and/or were in possession of the real property known as 723 30th Street, Hermosa Beach, California (“Neighbor Property”), which is directly adjacent to the Property. (Complaint ¶ 9.) In early 2017, Plaintiff noted a deteriorating fence between Property and Neighbor Property. (Complaint ¶ 10.) On May 9, 2017, a survey and topography of the property line between Plaintiff’s Property and Defendant’s Property was conducted by Denn Engineers which showed that a portion of Defendant’s Property was encroaching onto Plaintiff’s Property, that included a front entry porch, walkway, and mailbox. (Complaint ¶ 12.) Plaintiff and previous owners of Plaintiff’s Property never gave permission to Defendants to enter or encroach upon Plaintiff’s Property. (Complaint ¶¶ 13-17.)Plaintiff alleged the following causes of action: 1.Trespass; 2.Private Nuisance; and 3. Interference with Contractual Relations.On January 21, 2022, Defendants and Cross-Complainants Kenneth Hartley and Dorothy Forba filed a Cross-Complaint against Plaintiff David Trozak, Andrea Trozak, and Does 1 through 50 alleging the following causes of action: (1) Prescriptive Easement; (2) Declaratory Relief; (3) Nuisance/Damages To Property; (4) Interference With Quiet Enjoyment; (5) Permanent Injunction; (6) Negligence; And (7) Premises Liability.On November 21, 2023, Defendants and Cross-Complainants dismissed without prejudice their Cross-Complaint.On March 28, 2024, Plaintiff David Trozak filed the instant Motion for Summary Judgment or in the alternative, Summary Adjudication, Request for Judicial Notice, and Declaration of David Trozak.On May 28, 2024, Defendants filed their Opposition, Evidentiary Objections, Response to Separate Statement, and Defendants’ Separate Statement of Additional Disputed Facts.On June 6, 2024, Plaintiff filed a Reply, Reponses to Separate Statement of Additional Material Facts, Declarations, and Reply to Defendants’ Evidentiary Objections.II. FACTUAL BACKGROUNDPlaintiff David Trozak (“Plaintiff”) is the owner of the real property known as 721 30th Street, Hermosa Beach, California 90254. (“Plaintiff’s Property.”) (Defendants’ Response to Plaintiff’s Separate Statement of Disputed Material Facts (hereinafter “SSDF”) No. 1.1) Defendants Kenneth Hartley and Dorothy Forba owned the neighboring property 723 30th Street Hermosa Beach, California 90254. (“Defendant’s Property”) at all relevant times up and until November 30, 2023. (SSDF No. 2.) Plaintiff, on or about May 2017, had a survey and topography of the property line between Plaintiff’s Property and the neighboring property, 723 30th Street, Hermosa Beach, California 90254 (“723 30th”). (SSDF No. 3.) The results of the survey showed that a portion of 723 30th Street’s fence was encroaching onto Plaintiff’s Property. (SSDF No. 3.) 723 30th’s front entry porch, walkway, and mailbox were also encroaching onto Plaintiff’s Property. (SSDF No. 3.) Plaintiff and the previous owners of Plaintiff’s Property never gave Defendants permission to enter or encroach upon Plaintiff’s Property.2 (SSDF No. 4.) Plaintiff has been harmed because the trespass has caused him to suffer loss of use of the property and loss of value in the amount of $72,105.74. Further the annoyance and discomfort caused by the trespass and associated behaviors have caused Plaintiff to incur damages of $250,000.00.3 (Plaintiff’s Separate Statement of Material Facts “PSSMF” No.5.)On December 11, 2019, Plaintiff hired MROCK Construction to demolish the existing residence and build a new one on Plaintiff’s Property. This project included the construction of a new fence on the property line with Defendant’s Property. (SSDF No.10.) Defendants knew of the existence of Plaintiff’s contract with Plaintiff’s general contractor because Defendants saw Plaintiff’s general contractor performing work on Plaintiff’s Property and Defendants called a subcontractor who was working for Plaintiff’s general contractor.4 (SSDF No. 11.) Defendants interfered with this contract because they physically intimidated and threatened Plaintiff’s general contractor, harassed him, and physically blocked the construction. These repeated harassing behaviors resulted in Plaintiff’s general contractor quitting and ending his contract with Plaintiff.5 (SSDF No. 12.)Beginning in or around April 2020 and continuing through July 2021, Defendants allegedly acted in a manner that obstructed Plaintiff’s free use of the Property such as trespassing onto Plaintiff’s property, interfering and blocking Plaintiff’s general contractor from replacing a fence that was a health and safety hazard, getting in the face of Plaintiff’s general contractor when he tried to construct the new fence, and threatening Plaintiff’s general contractor with physical abuse. (SSDF No.13.) Plaintiff’s general contractor and his workers needed to remove portions of concrete that were trespassing onto Plaintiff’s property to perform construction of the property line fence and Defendants interfered physically to try to stop them. (SSDF No.13.) All of these actions by Defendants caused Plaintiff to incur additional costs because workers would show up to complete work and could not get the work done but they still were paid for showing up and attempting to complete work.6 (SSDF No.13.)Plaintiff’s general contractor has been unable to complete the work Plaintiff hired him to do and the work remains paused.7 (SSDF No. 14.)III. LEGAL STANDARDThe purpose of a motion for summary judgment “is to provide courts with a mechanism to cut through the parties’ pleadings in order to determine whether, despite their allegations, trial is in fact necessary to resolve their dispute.” (Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 843; Code Civ. Proc., § 437c (c).) “[Section 437c] requires the trial judge to grant summary judgment if all the evidence submitted, and ‘all inferences reasonably deducible from the evidence’ and uncontradicted by other inferences or evidence, show that there is no triable issue as to any material fact and that the moving party is entitled to judgment as a matter of law.” (Adler v. Manor Healthcare Corp. (1992) 7 Cal.App.4th 1110, 1119.)“A plaintiff or cross-complainant has met his or her burden of showing that there is no defense to a cause of action if that party has proved each element of the cause of action entitling the party to judgment on¿the¿cause of action.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (p)(1).) Then, “the burden shifts to the defendant or cross-defendant to show that a triable issue of one or more material facts exists as to¿the¿cause of action or a defense thereto.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (p)(1).) To establish a triable issue of material fact, the party opposing the motion must produce substantial responsive evidence. (Sangster v. Paetkau (1998) 68 Cal.App.4th 151, 166.) Courts “liberally construe the evidence in support of the party opposing summary judgment and resolve doubts concerning the evidence in favor of that party.” (Dore v. Arnold Worldwide, Inc. (2006) 39 Cal.4th 384, 389.In a motion for summary judgment, the pleadings serve to “delimit the scope of the issues” while the affidavits function to “disclose whether there is any triable issue of fact within the issues delimited by the pleadings.” (Flores v. City of San Diego (2022) 83 Cal.App.5th 360, 372.) Facts alleged in affidavits of the party against whom the motion for summary judgment is based must be accepted as true. (Blaustein v. Burton (1970) 9 Cal.App.3d 161.)IV. DISCUSSIONA. Positions of the Partiesa. Moving Party’s ArgumentsPlaintiff argues that there are no triable issues of material fact for his first (trespass), second (nuisance), and third (interference with contractual relations) cause of action because all elements were established. (Not. of Mot. for Sum. Jmt. pp. 2,5-7.) Plaintiff provides his own declaration and exhibits in support of his motion.b. Responding Party’s OppositionIn opposition, Defendants argue that there are triable issues of material facts because Plaintiff has not provided any evidence to support the elements of his causes of action besides his own declaration. (Opp’n at p. 1-3.) Moreover, Defendants also argue that Plaintiff’s claim of damages are not supported by law and states that the trespass cause of action is moot. (Opp’n at p. 5-7.) Defendants provide declarations from Eileen M. Kendall and Dorothy Forba in support of their claims that Plaintiff did not suffer any physical, mental, or emotional injuries and did not engage in the acts alleged by Plaintiff.c. Moving Party’s ReplyIn reply, Plaintiff reasserts his initial arguments and states that there are no triable issues of material fact. (Reply at p. 4.) There is still an ongoing trespass due to the fact that Defendants never removed the additional portion of the 2-step landing and porch on the west side of the Defendants’ property, 723 30th Street, Hermosa Beach, CA. (Reply at p.2.)B. Legal Analysisa. Trespass“‘Trespass is an unlawful interference with possession of property.’ (Internal citation omitted.) The elements of trespass are: (1) the plaintiff’s ownership or control of the property; (2) the defendant’s intentional, reckless, or negligent entry onto the property; (3) lack of permission for the entry or acts in excess of permission; (4) harm; and (5) the defendant’s conduct was a substantial factor in causing the harm. (See CACI No. 2000.)” (Ralphs Grocery Co. v. Victory Consultants, Inc., (2017) 17 Cal.App.5th 245, 261-62.)In the complaint, Plaintiff asserts that “Plaintiff had full ownership and possession of the Property.”(Complaint ¶ 24.) “Since approximately May 2017, Defendants intentionally, recklessly, and/or negligently entered and continued entering Plaintiff’s property by and through their encroachments and actions as to Plaintiff’s agents and contractors.” (Complaint ¶ 25.) “Plaintiff never gave permission to Defendants to act in this manner or to enter the Property.” (Complaint ¶ 26.) “Plaintiff is and was actually harmed by Defendants’ actions and intrusion on his Property, and such harm was substantially caused by Defendants’ conduct resulting in economic and non-economic damages, among others.” (Complaint ¶ 27.)In support of his position, Plaintiff presents his own declaration and other exhibits.(1) The Plaintiff’s Ownership or Control of the PropertyHere, it is undisputed that Plaintiff is the owner of 721 30th Street, Hermosa Beach, California 90254 (“Plaintiff’s Property”). (UMF No. 1; Trozak Decl. ¶ 3.) Therefore, Plaintiff satisfied this element.(2) The Defendant’s Intentional, Reckless, or Negligent Entry onto the PropertyPlaintiff declares that after he “had a survey and topography of the property line between [his] property and the neighboring property then owned by Defendants which showed that a portion of Defendants’ property, 723 30th Street, Hermosa Beach, California 90245 was encroaching onto [his] property. This included Defendants’ front entry porch and mailbox.” (Trozak Decl. ¶ 5; Exhibit A.) Plaintiff attached a copy of the survey along with photographs showing the encroaching mailbox and front entry porch. (Id.) However, there is a triable issue of material fact as to whether Defendants affirmatively acted to trespass; such action need not have been intentional, but trespass requires at least a negligent action or failure to act.(3) Lack of Permission for the Entry or Acts in Excess of PermissionPlaintiff declares that he “never gave permission to Defendants to enter or encroach onto [his] property.” (Trozak Decl. ¶ 6.) Plaintiff does not provide any other evidence. However, since Plaintiff makes the declaration under penalty of perjury, the Court finds that this declaration was sufficient. Therefore, this element was satisfied.(4) HarmPlaintiff declares that “based on the current market value, [his] home is worth approximately $5,650,000.00. The square footage of [his] home is 3,931 square feet. Approximately 42 square feet was affected which is a loss of use amounting to $72,105.74 in loss of use damages” andcontinues to accrue. (Trozak Decl. ¶¶ 15-16.) However, Plaintiff failed to provide any evidence as to the costs of the home or how the 42 square feet resulted in $72,105.74 in loss of use damages. Therefore, Plaintiff failed to prove there are no triable issues of material facts as to the harm. Assuming this element was met, the Court completes the analysis below.(5) The Defendant’s Conduct was a Substantial Factor in Causing the HarmPlaintiff provides his declaration to show that Defendants’ conduct was a substantial factor in causing the harm because Defendants “mercilessly harassed” the general contractor throughout the time he was doing construction at his property by “getting in his face, physically blocking his workers, and threatening his workers physically if they continued to work on constructing the fence that [he] hired MROCK Construction to construct. Due to this harassment, portions of the work has been left an incomplete state.” (Trozak Decl. ¶ 13.) As mentioned above, Plaintiff fails to provide any evidence of the alleged harassment rather than his own testimony.Therefore, Plaintiff failed to meet his burden that there are no triable issues of material facts, and the burden does not shift to Defendants.Thus, the Motion for Summary Judgment or in the Alternative Motion for Summary Adjudication is DENIED as to the first cause of action for trespass.b. Private NuisanceTo state a claim for private nuisance, a plaintiff must plead (1) that the defendant interfered with plaintiff’s use and enjoyment of the plaintiff’s property; (2) that “the invasion of the plaintiff's interest in the use and enjoyment of the land was substantial, i.e., that it cause[d] the plaintiff to suffer substantial actual damage”; (3) “the interference was unreasonable, i.e., it must be ‘of such a nature, duration or amount as to constitute unreasonable interference with the use and enjoyment of the land.” (Chase v. Wizman (2021) 71 Cal. App. 5th 244.)In the complaint, Plaintiff asserts, “Since approximately May 2017, [Defendants] acted in a manner which was indecent, offensive, obstructed Plaintiff’s free use of the Property and interfered with his comfortable enjoyment of Property, and caused and continues to cause a hazard to the Property through Defendants’ continued intrusions upon the Property and preventing Plaintiff’s agents and contractors from replacing the fence upon rightful and proper boundaries.” (Complaint ¶ 29.) The complaint further alleges “Defendants’ conduct in performing these actions was intentional, unreasonable, reckless, and/or negligent, and substantially interfered and continues to interfere with Plaintiff’s use and enjoyment of the Property, where an ordinary person would be annoyed or disturbed by Defendants’ conduct.” (Complaint ¶ 30.)In support of his position, Plaintiff presents his own declaration. Plaintiff states “Defendants often stared into my yard and home in an intimidating manner. They took photographs of myself and my family while we were in our home where my wife and I have our home offices. This made us extremely uncomfortable as they could have been photographing work we were doing on our computers. These behaviors only stopped because we put up a partial fence. They also continued to photograph me from their balcony as I did regular things at my home like taking out my trash. They yelled profanities at me from their balcony. This was ongoing during the time they lived next door. Defendants would also glare at me through their rotting fence.” (Trozan Decl. ¶ 14.) Plaintiffdid not provide any evidence showing that Defendants engaged in this behavior or show how this behavior would be a private nuisance. The Court also notes that Plaintiff does not cite to any authority showing how this behavior is a private nuisance.Therefore, Plaintiff failed to meet his burden that there are no triable issues of material facts, and the burden does not shift to Defendants.Thus, the Motion for Summary Judgment or in the Alternative Motion for Summary Adjudication is DENIED as to the second cause of action for private nuisance.c. Interference with Contractual RelationsThe elements of an action for tortious interference of contract are (1) a valid contract between plaintiff and a third party, (2) defendant's knowledge of this contract, (3) defendant's intentional acts designed to induce a breach or disruption of the contractual relationship, (4) actual breach or disruption of the contractual relationship, and (5) resulting damage. (Hahn v. Diaz-Barba, (2011) 194 Cal. App. 4th 1177, 1198.)The complaint alleges, “On or around early 2021, Plaintiff formed and had a contract with his first general contract to perform the work to replace the deteriorated fence between property and Neighbor Property. Defendants knew of the existence of such contract based on the work the first general contractor began performing on the Property and their interaction with Defendants. Defendants’ conduct which included screaming, harassing, unlawfully calling the police, and threatening physical altercation with the first contractor, as well as physically blocking the construction, prevented the first general contractor from performing his contractual duties to Plaintiff. Due to Defendants’ actions, the first general contractor had to end his contractual relations with Plaintiff.” (Complaint ¶¶ 34-37.)In support of his position, Plaintiff again presents his own declaration and a copy of his contract with MROCK Construction.(1) A Valid Contract Between Plaintiff And A Third PartyPlaintiff submitted the copy of the contract between MROCK Construction and Plaintiff. (Trozak Decl. ¶ 7; Exhibit B.) Exhibit B shows that the parties David Trozak and Andrea Trozak entered into the contract with MROCK Construction on December 11, 2019. Therefore, Plaintiff satisfied this element.(2) Defendant's Knowledge of this ContractPlaintiff states that “[o]n or about April 2020, workers from MROCK Construction were subjected to physical intimidation, threats of physical abuse, and being physically blocked by Defendants which prevented MROCK Construction from doing the work I hired them to do. This work included removing portions of concrete that were trespassing onto Plaintiff’s property to perform construction of the property line fence and Defendants interfered physically to try to stop them.” (Trozak Decl. ¶ 8.) Therefore, Plaintiff argues that Defendants “clearly knew of the existence of the contract because they had numerous interactions with Plaintiff’s general contractor . . ..” (Mot. for Summ. Judgm. at p. 7.) The Court agrees that Defendants could makean inference that a contract existed when a construction team was working on Plaintiff’s property. Therefore, this element is satisfied.(3) Defendant's Intentional Acts Designed to Induce a Breach or Disruption of the Contractual RelationshipPlaintiff argues Defendants then intentionally interfered with the contract by engaging in repeated harassing behaviors for more than a year and eventually causing Plaintiff’s contractor to quit. (SSDF Nos. 11, 12; Trozak Decl. ¶¶ 8-13.) However, the Court notes that Plaintiff fails to provide any evidence showing that Defendants intentionally interfered besides his own declaration. Therefore, Plaintiff failed to meet his burden that there are no triable issues of material facts, and the burden does not shift to Defendants.(4) Actual Breach or Disruption of the Contractual RelationshipPlaintiff declares that “[d]ue to this harassment, portions of the work has been left an incomplete state. Before we can complete the work, the encroaching mailbox and porch need to be removed. To date, the request to remove the encroachment has been refused by Defendants.” (Trozak Decl. ¶ 13.) Again, Plaintiff failed to include any evidence showing that the refusal resulted in the disruption of the contractual relationship. Therefore, Plaintiff failed to meet his burden that there are no triable issues of material facts, and the burden does not shift to Defendants.(5) Resulting DamageFor the same reasons mentioned above, this element fails because of the lack of support as to damages.Therefore, Plaintiff failed to meet his burden that there are no triable issues of material facts, and the burden does not shift to Defendants.Thus, the Motion for Summary Judgment or in the Alternative Motion for Summary Adjudication is DENIED as to the third cause of action for interference with contractual relations.V. CONCLUSIONTherefore, the PLAINTIFF’S NOTICE OF MOTION AND MOTION FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT filed by David Trozak on 03/28/24 is DENIED.