 Case Number:  23STCV20937    Hearing Date:   March 28, 2024    Dept:  27 HON. LEE
S. ARIAN
DEPARTMENT
27
TENTATIVE
RULING
 
Hearing Date:           3/28/2024 at 1:30 p.m.
Case No./Name:       23STCV20937 CESAR CHAVEZ vs GILMER FIGUEROA 
Motion:                    MOTION TO COMPEL DEPOSTION, REQUEST FOR
PRODUCTION AND FOR SANCTIONS
Moving Party:           Plaintiff
Responding Party:    Defendant Boris Navarro
Notice:                      Sufficient
 
Ruling:                    MOTION TO COMPEL DEPOSTION, REQUEST FOR
PRODUCTION AND FOR SANCTIONS IS
GRANTED.
 
Legal Standards 
 
Any
party may obtain discovery, subject to restrictions, by taking the oral  deposition
of any person, including any party to the action.  (Code
Civ. Proc., §
2025.010.) A
properly served deposition notice is effective to require a party or
party-affiliated deponent to attend and to testify, as well as to produce
documents for inspection and copying.  (Code Civ. Proc., §
2025.280, subd. (a).)   
 
“If,
after service of a deposition notice, a party to the action . . . or employee
of a party . . . , without having served a valid objection under Section
2025.410, fails to appear for examination, or to proceed with it, or to produce
for inspection any document, electronically stored information, or tangible
thing described in the deposition notice, the party giving the notice may move
for an order compelling the deponent’s attendance and testimony, and the
production for inspection of any document, electronically stored information,
or tangible thing described in the deposition notice.” (Code Civ. Proc. §
2025.450, subd. (a).)
“The
motion shall be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration under Section
2016.040, or, when the deponent fails to attend the deposition and produce the
documents, electronically stored information, or things described in the
deposition notice, by a declaration stating that the petitioner has contacted
the deponent to inquire about the nonappearance.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.450,
subd. (b)(2).)   
 
“The
motion shall set forth specific facts showing good cause justifying the
production for inspection of any document, electronically stored information,
or tangible thing described in the deposition notice.” (Code Civ. Proc., §
2025.450, subd. (b)(1).)  
 
Factual Background and Analysis
On August 30, 2023,
Plaintiff filed the present motor accident case against Defendants Gilmer
Figueroa and Boris Navarro. Since October 2023, Plaintiff has been attempting
to take Defendant Navarro’s deposition. The deposition notice was amended four
times, with the latest notice served on January 22, 2024, for a deposition
scheduled on February 21, 2024. Defendant Navarro did not object to the latest
deposition notice. On February 20, 2024, just one day before the deposition,
Defendant Navarro’s counsel informed Plaintiff that they would not be appearing
for the deposition and did not provide an alternative date. After numerous
nonappearances or last minute cancellations, Plaintiff now moves the Court to
compel Defendant Navarro’s deposition.
Plaintiff's declaration
and motion demonstrated sufficient meet and confer efforts and demonstrated
good cause for the document production. Defendant Navarro does not oppose this
motion on these grounds. In fact, Defendant Navarro does not contest that the
deposition should be compelled but only argues that sanctions should not be
imposed against the attorney due to Defendant Navarro’s non-assistance in the
preparation and appearance for his deposition. Nonetheless, Defendant Navarro’s
numerous failures to appear compelled Plaintiff to file the current motion and
thereby incur attorney’s fees. Plaintiff requests sanctions in the amount of
$2,375. However, due to the simplicity of the motion and defense counsel's
representation of his client’s non-compliance, the Court exercises its
discretion and reduces the amount to $1,500.00 and ORDERS Defendant Navarro (and
not his counsel) to pay sanctions of $1,500.00 to Plaintiff within 20 days of today’s
date. 
Furthermore, Defense counsel stated that he is in
the process of being relieved as counsel and requested that the Court allow a
minimum of 30 days to resolve representation issues for Mr. Navarro before
granting the motion. The Court finds this request reasonable. The Court GRANTS
Plaintiff’s motion to compel deposition and production of documents and ORDERS
Defendant Navarro to sit for his deposition and produce the requested documents
at the deposition within 50 days of today or within 20 days of Defendant
Navarro obtaining new counsel, whichever is earlier.
PLEASE TAKE NOTICE:
 
If a party intends to submit on this tentative ruling,¿the party must send an email to
the court at¿sscdept27@lacourt.org¿with the Subject line “SUBMIT”
followed by the case number.¿ The body of the email must include the hearing date
and time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the party
submitting.
 
Unless¿all¿parties submit by email to this tentative ruling, the
parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or in person for oral
argument.¿ You should assume that others may appear at the
hearing to argue.
 
If the parties neither submit nor appear at hearing,
the Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the tentative ruling as the
order of the Court.¿ After the Court has issued a tentative ruling, the
Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion without leave.