 Case Number:  21STCV41302    Hearing Date:   March 28, 2024    Dept:  27  
Hon. Lee S. Arian
Department 27
Tentative
Ruling
 
Hearing Date:           3/27/2024 at 1:30 p.m.
Case No./Name:       21STCV41302 TAMIKA YOUNG vs A&B DONUTS
Motion:                    MOTION TO QUASH DEFENDANT’S SUBPOENA FOR
INSURANCE CLAIM FILES OR IN THE ALTERNATIVE FOR A PROTECTIVE ORDER
Moving Party:           Plaintiff
Responding Party:    Defendant A&B Donuts
Notice:                     Sufficient
 
Ruling:                               MOTIONS TO QUASH
DEFENDANT’S SUBPOENAS FOR INSURANCE CLAIM FILES OR IN THE ALTERNATIVE FOR A
PROTECTIVE ORDER IS DENIED.
 
REQUEST FOR SANCTIONS IS DENIED
 
Background
 
On November 9,
2021, Plaintiff filed the current complaint for a slip and fall incident at
A&B Donut shop on November 9, 2019. On the very next day after the fall at
the donut shop, Plaintiff was involved in a minor traffic collision, and then in
2020, Plaintiff was involved in a minor collision in Texas. On August 21, 2023,
Defendant A&B Donuts issued subpoenas to Liberty Mutal Insurance Company and
to Allstate Insurance Company for Plaintiff’s claim files from November 9, 2019,
to present. On January 30, 2024, Defendant issued subpoenas to the same insurance
companies for updated information from August 21, 2023, to present. Plaintiff
now moves the court to quash the subpoenas or to grant a protective order.
 
Legal
Standard
 
CCP
section 1987.1 states that “[i]f a subpoena requires the attendance of a
witness or the production of books, documents, electronically stored
information, or other things before a court, or at the trial of an issue
therein, or at the taking of a deposition, the court, upon motion reasonably
made by any person described in subdivision (b), or upon the court’s own motion
after giving counsel notice and an opportunity to be heard, may make an order
quashing the subpoena entirely, modifying it, or directing compliance with it
upon those terms or conditions as the court shall declare, including protective
orders.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 1987.1(a).)  “In addition, the court may
make any other order as may be appropriate to protect the person from
unreasonable or oppressive demands, including unreasonable violations of the
right of privacy of the person.”  (Id.)  Subdivision (b)
provides that a party may make a motion pursuant to subdivision (a).  (Id.,
§ 1987.1(b).) 
 
As
a general rule, all unprivileged information that is relevant to the subject
matter of the action is discoverable if it would itself be admissible evidence
at trial or if it appears reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of
admissible evidence. (Code Civ. Proc. § 2017.010; Schnabel v. Superior Court
(1993) 5 Cal.4th 704, 711.) When the information sought to be discovered
impacts a person’s constitutional right to privacy, limited protections come
into play for that person. (Shaffer v. Superior Court (1995) 33
Cal.App.4th 993, 999.) The protections cover both a person’s personal and
financial matters. (Id.) The court must balance competing rights — the
right of a litigant to discover relevant facts and the right of an individual
to maintain reasonable privacy — in determining whether the information is
discoverable. (Id.) 
 
Analysis
Meet and Confer
Plaintiff appears to
have at least attempted to meet and confer sufficiently to meet that requirement.

The Subpoenas
The Court is unclear
regarding which subpoena(s) Plaintiff is seeking a protective order for, as
there are four subpoenas currently at issue.  On August 21, 2023, Defendant served subpoenas
on Liberty Mutual and on Allstate seeking claims information from November 9,
2019, to the present.  On January 30,
2024, Defendant served two additional subpoenas on the insurers   requesting updated claims information from
August 21, 2023, to the present. Plaintiff’s separate statement includes only
references the January 30, 2024, subpoenas. 
The underlying issue contributing to this confusion is that Plaintiff
has improperly combined four motions to quash subpoenas into one filing. This
not only potentially allows Plaintiff to jump ahead of other litigants in the
procedural queue but also deprives the court of the full filing fees that
assist the court in paying for the services it provides to the public.
1.  Original
Subpoenas
Plaintiff filed the
present motion in March 2024; however, the two original subpoenas were served
on August 21, 2023, six months before the motion. A motion should have been
filed before the compliance date specified in the subpoena to prevent
compliance. Due to the lack of timely filing to quash or for a protective
order, Liberty Mutual complied with the subpoena. At this point, then, the
motion is moot as to that subpoena. 
Further, as noted above, Plaintiff did not include the original
subpoenas in question within the separate statement.  Thus, the motions as to the August 2023 subpoenas
are denied as moot and on procedural grounds for failure to provide a separate
statement as to those subpoenas.
2.  Updated
Subpoenas
Regarding the two
updated subpoenas served on January 30, 2024 requesting information from August
21, 2023, to the present, Each subpoena request is limited to the incident
number stated on the subpoena. Plaintiff agrees that medical and property
damage records to these incidents should be produced. He appears to contend
that the following should not be produced: (1) any witness statements, which
may be protected by the work product doctrine and (2) any other declarations or
communications that are irrelevant to Plaintiff’s damages in the present slip
and fall case, or those protected by the attorney-client privilege or the
attorney work-product doctrine, should also be withheld.
The Court has no information to determine that any
declarations (1) exist in the files at issues and (2) involve attorney work
product.  Without such information, the
Court is disinclined to make any ruling related to such declarations.  Given that the subpoenas are explicitly limited
to documents related to the specific incident number stated, the Court does not
perceive a need to limit the scope of the subpoenas.  Accordingly, the motions to quash or for
protective order are denied.

Sanctions
Plaintiff’s request for sanctions is denied.
 
PLEASE TAKE NOTICE:
 
If a party intends to submit on this tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the court at sscdept27@lacourt.org with the Subject line “SUBMIT” followed by
the case number.  The body of the email must include the
hearing date and time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the
party submitting.
 
Unless all parties submit by email to this tentative
ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or in person
for oral argument.  You should assume that others may appear at
the hearing to argue.
 
If the parties neither submit nor appear at hearing, the
Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the tentative ruling as the
order of the Court.  After the Court has issued a tentative
ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion without
leave.
 
 