 Case Number:  22STCV25601    Hearing Date:   March 28, 2024    Dept:  27 ¿¿¿ 



DEPT:¿¿¿¿¿¿ 


Hon. Lee S. Arian, Dept
  27¿¿¿¿¿ 




HEARING DATE:¿¿¿¿¿ 


3/28/24      




MOTION:¿ 


MOTION TO BE RELIEVED AS
  COUNSEL¿ 




CASE NAME/NUMBER:¿¿¿¿¿ 


22STCV25601 MIGUEL
  MONTES vs JACK T CHU




Moving Counsel:¿¿¿ 


Edward M. Morgan 




Next Hearing Date:¿¿¿ 


FSC at 10/24/24¿¿ 




Trial Date:¿¿¿ 


11/5/24




RULING:¿¿¿¿¿ 


GRANT¿¿ 



 
Background
 
Plaintiff is currently
represented by Counsel Edward M. Morgan (“Morgan”) of Downtown L.A Law Group. Morgan moves to be relieved as counsel, citing an
irremediable breakdown in the attorney-client communication, which rendered it
unreasonably difficult, if not impossible, for Morgan to continue representing
Plaintiff. No opposition has been filed.
 
Legal Standard
 
The Court has discretion
to allow an attorney to withdraw, and such a motion should be granted provided
that there is no prejudice to the client and it does not disrupt the orderly
process of justice. (See Ramirez v. Sturdevant (1994) 21 Cal.App.4th
904, 915; People v. Prince (1968) 268 Cal.App.2d 398, 403-407.)
 
A motion to be relieved as
counsel must be made on Judicial Council Form MC-051 (Notice of Motion and
Motion), MC-052 (Declaration), and MC-053 (Proposed Order). (Cal. Rules of
Court, rule 3.1362, subds. (a), (c), (e).) The requisite forms must be served
“on the client and on all parties that have appeared in the case.” (Cal. Rules
of Court, Rule 3.1362, subd. (d).)
 
Analysis and Conclusion¿¿ 
 
Judicial Council Form
MC-051 (Notice of Motion and Motion), MC-052 (Declaration), and MC-053
(Proposed Order) have all been filed and served. Morgan seeks to be relieved as
counsel for Plaintiff on the grounds that there has been a breakdown in the
attorney-client relationship. The Court finds this to be proper grounds for
withdrawal. A breakdown in the attorney-client relationship and/or communication
is grounds for allowing the attorney to withdraw. (Estate of Falco
(1987) 188 Cal.App.3d 1004, 1014.) The Court notes that the next hearing is an
FSC set for 10/24/24.
 
Despite efforts to mail
the documents to Plaintiff, Morgan has been unable to confirm that Plaintiff’s
mailing address is current. However, Morgan has undertaken reasonable efforts
to locate a more current address by mailing the motion to Plaintiff's last
known address with a return receipt, calling Plaintiff's last known phone
number, contacting Plaintiff's listed emergency contact, conducting a people
search, and calling six other potential numbers for Plaintiff. None of these
resulted in Morgan making contact with Plaintiff.  The Court finds that counsel has made
reasonable efforts to discover Plaintiff's last known address. Accordingly, the
present motion to be relieved as counsel is GRANTED, effective upon counsel
serving Notice of this ruling on Plaintiff at Plaintiff’s last known address.
 
¿PLEASE TAKE
NOTICE:
 
If a party intends to submit on this tentative ruling,¿the party must send an email to the court at¿sscdept27@lacourt.org¿with the Subject line “SUBMIT” followed by the case
number.¿ The body of the email must include the hearing date and time, counsel’s
contact information, and the identity of the party submitting.
 
Unless¿all¿parties submit by email to this tentative ruling, the
parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or in person for oral
argument.¿ You should assume that others may appear at the hearing to argue.
 
If the parties neither submit nor appear at hearing,
the Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the tentative ruling as the
order of the Court.¿ After the Court has issued a tentative ruling, the
Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion without leave.