 Case Number:  23STCV14713    Hearing Date:   March 28, 2024    Dept:  27  Hon. Lee S. Arian
Department 27
Tentative Ruling
 
Hearing Date:                3/28/2024 at 1:30 p.m.
Case No./Name.:         23STCV14713 REGINALD WILSON vs
JIYEON CHOI
Motion Name:                MOTION TO COMPEL FURTHER
Moving Party:                 Plaintiff
Responding Party:      Defendant Ji Yeon Choi
Notice:                                Insufficient
 
Ruling:                               MOTION TO COMPEL FURTHER IS DENIED
 
Legal Standard
 
CCP § 1005(b) provides “all moving and
supporting papers shall be served and filed at least 16 court days before the
hearing. … if the notice is served by facsimile transmission, express mail, or
another method of delivery providing for overnight delivery, the required
16-day period of notice before the hearing shall be increased by two calendar
days.”  
 
CCP § 1010.6(a)(3)(B) Provides
“Any period of notice, or any right or duty to do any act or make any response
within any period or on a date certain after the service of the document, which
time period or date is prescribed by statute or rule of court, shall be
extended after service by electronic means by two court days.”¿  
 
Cole v. Superior Court (2022) 87 Cal.App.5th 84, 87 is on point. In Cole,
the appellate court faced the same issue in relation to a summary judgment
motion and, since CCP Section 437c does not expressly state any extension of
the notice period for electronic service, it looked to CCP Section 1010.6,
which addresses service by electronic transmission, to determine if any
extension applies to such service. And, in fact, as noted above, Section 1010.6(a)(3)(B) provides for a two-day notice
extension for electronic service. Here, too, Section 1005(b) does not expressly
state an extended notice period, so we look to Section 1010.6. Accordingly,
Plaintiff needed to serve the motion 18 court days before the hearing. 
 
Factual Background and Analysis
 
It is undisputed that
Plaintiff's motion was served electronically on March 5, 2024. The hearing must
be scheduled for no earlier than March 29, 2024, 18 court days from the date of
electronic service. However, the hearing is currently set for March 28, 2024,
and is therefore untimely. Plaintiff’s contention that the Court can ignore the
untimely nature of the motion is without merit. 
The case to which it cites for the proposition that the Court has
discretion to consider a noticed motion that provides less than the required
notice relates to an opposition, not a noticed motion.  Consequently, Plaintiff's motion is DENIED.
 
PLEASE TAKE NOTICE:
 
If a party intends to submit on this tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the court at sscdept27@lacourt.org with the Subject line “SUBMIT” followed by
the case number.  The body of the email must include the
hearing date and time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the
party submitting.
 
Unless all parties submit by email to this tentative
ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or in person
for oral argument.  You should assume that others may appear at
the hearing to argue.
 
If the parties neither submit nor appear at hearing, the
Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the tentative ruling as the
order of the Court.  After the Court has issued a tentative
ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion without
leave.
 
 
 
 
 