 Case Number:  21STCV12624    Hearing Date:   March 28, 2024    Dept:  27 Complaint Filed:      4/2/21
¿ 
Hon. Lee S. Arian¿ 
Department 27¿ 
Tentative Ruling¿ 
 
Hearing Date:           3/19/2024 at 1:30 p.m.¿ 
Case No./Name:       21STCV12624 MARGARET BOCK, AN INDIVIDUAL vs
CITY OF LA MIRADA
Motion:                    Motion to Bifurcate
Moving Party:           Defendant West Coast Arborist, Inc.
Responding Party:    Plaintiff and Defendant City of La Mirada
Notice:                     Sufficient¿ 
 
Ruling:                     Motion to Bifurcate is Denied without
Prejudice
 
Background
 
On
May 3, 2020, Plaintiff allegedly tripped and fell on a portion of uplifted
sidewalk in the City of La Mirada. Plaintiff filed the present lawsuit on April
2, 2021, against Defendants City of La Mirada and West Coast Arborists (WCA).
WCA was tasked with performing tree trimming services and reporting any
hazardous conditions to the City. Despite conducting tree trimming services on
December 19, 2019, WCA failed to report the hazardous uplifted sidewalk. Under
the service contract between the City and WCA, WCA was to indemnify and defend
the City against claims arising from services rendered by WCA, including not
reporting unsafe conditions. 
 
On
January 10, 2024, the City and Plaintiff entered into a settlement agreement
for $25,000 and filed an application for determination for a good faith
settlement. WCA challenged the settlement, arguing that the amount does not
reflect the City's proportionate liability and suggests collusion to the disadvantage
of WCA. The motion is under submission.
On
January 12, 2024, WCA brought a motion to bifurcate.  
 
Analysis
 
The
Court now denies WCA’s motion to bifurcate without prejudice because the issue
is best left to the discretion of the trial judge.  WCA can raise the issue at the time of trial.
 
Further,
the good faith settlement motion that is pending may resolve the issue of
indemnity, which is the basis for WCA’s motion. 
 
Accordingly,
at this time, the motion to bifurcate is denied without prejudice.
 
 PLEASE TAKE NOTICE:        
     
If a
party intends to submit on this tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the court at sscdept27@lacourt.org with the Subject line “SUBMIT” followed by
the case number.  The body of the email must include the
hearing date and time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the
party submitting.          
   
Unless all parties submit by email to this tentative
ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or in person
for oral argument.  You should assume that others may appear at
the hearing to argue.          
   
If
the parties neither submit nor appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion
off calendar or adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  After the Court has issued a tentative
ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion without
leave.          
¿PLEASE TAKE NOTICE:¿¿¿¿¿¿¿ 
¿¿¿¿ 
If a party intends to submit on
this tentative ruling,¿the party must send an email to the court at¿sscdept27@lacourt.org¿with the Subject line “SUBMIT”
followed by the case number.¿ The body of the email must include the hearing date
and time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the party
submitting.¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿ 
¿¿ 
Unless¿all¿parties submit by email to this
tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or
in person for oral argument.¿ You should assume that others may appear at the
hearing to argue.¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿ 
¿¿ 
If the parties neither submit nor appear at hearing,
the Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the tentative ruling as the
order of the Court.¿ After the Court has issued a tentative ruling, the Court may
prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion without leave.¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿ 
 