 Case Number:  22BBCV01067    Hearing Date:   September 21, 2023    Dept:  A LOS
ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT
NORTH
CENTRAL DISTRICT - BURBANK
DEPARTMENT
A
 

TENTATIVE
RULING
SEPTEMBER 21,
2023

SPECIAL MOTION
TO STRIKE 

Los Angeles Superior Court
Case # 22BBCV01067

 



MP: Harvey Weinstein (Defendant)




RP:  Marisa Falero (Plaintiff)



 
ALLEGATIONS: 
 
On
November 11, 2023, Melissa Falero (“Plaintiff”) filed suit against several well-known
entertainment production companies and personalities. Plaintiff is an attorney
admitted to practice in New York and is in this action pro per. Plaintiff alleges
these companies and persons incorporated details of her life into several dozen
motion pictures and television shows over the period of several decades without
her permission. Before the Court now is an anti-SLAPP motion brought by defendant
Harvey Weinstein (“Weinstein”). 
 
Plaintiff
asserts 10 total causes for (1) Conspiracy to Commit or Violation of New York
Civil Rights Law § 50-51 (as to all defendants), (2) Conspiracy to Commit or
Violation of California Common Law (as to all defendants), (3) Conspiracy to
Commit or Violation of Ca. Civ. Code § 3344 (as to all defendants), (4) IIED
(as to defendants Damon, Affleck, Smith, Lopez, the Weinsteins, Disney,
Miramax, Lionsgate, Paramount, and Pearl St.), (5) NEID (as to defendants
Damon, Affleck, Smith, Lopez, the Weinsteins, Disney, Miramax, Lionsgate,
Paramount, and Pearl St.), (6) Stalking & Harassment Under Ca. Civ. Code §§
1708.7 and 527.6 (as against Affleck, Damon, Harvey Weinstein.), (7) Prima
Facie Tort – Affleck, Damon, Smith, Casey, Lopez, and the Weinsteins) (8) Negligence (as
to the Weinsteins, Miramax, and Disney.), (9) Negligent Hiring, Retention and
Supervision (as to Robert Weinstein, Miramax, and Disney.) (10) Aiding and
Abetting (as to Robert Weinstein, Miramax, Disney.)   
 
On August 18, 2023, this matter came on for
hearing. The Court requested additional evidentiary submissions by Weinstein
speaking to public interest requirement in Anti-SLAPP matters. The Court
provided a full briefing schedule to both parties, providing Plaintiff the
opportunity to review the supplemental submissions of Weinstein, respond to
them, and file evidentiary objections. The Court having reviewed the
submissions of both parties now issues the following ruling: 
 
ANALYSIS:
 
I.               
LEGAL
STANDARD 
 
“An
anti-SLAPP motion ‘requires the court to engage in a two-step process. First,
the court decides whether the defendant has made a threshold showing that the
challenged cause of action is one arising from protected activity… If the
court finds that such a showing has been made, it then determines whether the
plaintiff has demonstrated a probability of prevailing on the claim.’ ‘Under
section 425.16, subdivision (b)(2), the trial court in making these
determinations considers ‘the pleadings, and supporting and opposing affidavits
stating the facts upon which the liability or defense is based.’” (Premier Medical Management Systems, Inc. v.
California Insurance Guarantee Association (2006) 136 Cal.App.4th 464, 472
(Citations Omitted).)
 
“Resolution
of an anti-SLAPP motion involves two steps. First, the defendant must establish
that the challenged claim arises from activity protected by section
425.16. [Citation.] If the defendant makes the required showing, the burden
shifts to the plaintiff to demonstrate the merit of the claim by establishing a
probability of success. We have described this second step as a
‘summary-judgment-like procedure.’[Citation.] The court does
not weigh evidence or resolve conflicting factual claims. Its inquiry is
limited to whether the plaintiff has stated a legally sufficient claim and
made a prima facie factual showing sufficient to sustain a favorable judgment.
It accepts the plaintiff's evidence as true and evaluates the defendant's
showing only to determine if it defeats the plaintiff's claim as a matter of
law.” (Baral v. Schnitt (2016) 1 Cal.5th 375, 384-85.) As to the second
step inquiry, a plaintiff seeking to demonstrate the merit of the claim “may
not rely solely on its complaint, even if verified; instead, its proof must be
made upon competent admissible evidence.” (Sweetwater Union High School
Dist. v. Gilbane Building Co. (2019) 6 Cal.5th 931 (Sweetwater).)
 
II.             
MERITS 
 
On
Supplemental Declarations 
 
Plaintiff
cites Jay v. Mahaffey (2013) 218 Cal.App.4th 1522 in claiming that
the motion should not be heard because new evidence is not to be considered in
reply briefs. Plaintiff is correct that the general rule is that new
evidence is not permitted to be presented in reply briefs. (Id. 1537,
see also San Diego Watercrafts, Inc. v. Wells Fargo Bank, 102 Cal. App.
4th 308.) However, “Although, the inclusion of additional evidentiary matter
with the reply should only be allowed in the exceptional case, the trial
court's consideration of such additional evidence is not an abuse of discretion
so long as the party opposing the motion for summary judgment has notice and an
opportunity to respond to the new material. (Weiss v. Chevron, U.S.A., Inc.
(1988) 204 Cal.App.3d 1094, 1098.) 
 
Plaintiff
overlooks the procedural differences present in this case from those cited
above. Each of those cases concerned instances where new evidence was submitted
in reply without the court’s prior permission and without opportunity for the
opposing party to respond. The general rule barring new evidence in reply
briefs has a simple reasoning. The rule exists because the opposing party has
no statutorily permissible way of responding to new evidence when prepared in a
reply brief. Exceptions do exist to this general rule, for example due process
concerns may be outweighed by the strength of new evidence. (Wall Street
Network, Ltd. v. New York Times Co., 164 Cal. App. 4th 117, 1190.) Here no
exception is necessary and there are no due process concerns. Plaintiff has
been afforded full opportunity to reply and present her evidentiary objections
to Weinstein’s supplemental declaration. 
 
Having
reviewed the evidentiary objections Plaintiff has submitted, the Court having
considered each objection OVERRULES the objections. 
 
FAC
Allegations as to Weinstein 
 
Plaintiff
alleges Weinstein participated in the following appropriations of her image:
 
The
Weinsteins maintained a relationship with Miramax Film Corp. after they left
and, through TWC or Dimension, partnered with it on films including The Matador
(2005), Derailed (2005), Breaking & Entering (2006), and Scary Movie 4
(2006) (FAC ¶ 49.) 
 
Miramax’s
Seabiscuit (2002) includes “Maricella,” with dark hair who rides horses. (FAC ¶
396.)
 
Miramax’s
Bad Santa 2 (2016) includes the plaintiff’s belongings and her birthdate. (FAC
¶ 397.)
 
Dimension
The Adventures of Sharkboy and Lava Girl (2005), Spy Kids 4-D: All the Time in
the World (2011), Amityville: The Awakening (2017), Mob Wives uses plaintiff’s
portrait, likeness, story and persona repeatedly (FAC ¶¶ 398-400.) 
 
TWC’s Mob
Wives uses plaintiff’s portrait, likeness, story and persona repeatedly. (FAC ¶
401.) 
 
TWC’s
Scream 4 (2011), The Details (2011), The Railway Men (2013), St. Vincent
(2014), Suite Francais (2014), Big Eyes (2014), Snowpiercer (2013), and Lion
(2016) all use aspects of the plaintiff’s story or persona and the allegations
(¶ 407.) 
 
Arising
from Protected Activity 
 
“A cause
of action is subject to a special motion to strike if the defendant shows that
the cause of action arises from an act in furtherance of the defendant’s
constitutional right of petition or free speech in connection with a public
issue and the plaintiff fails to demonstrate a probability of prevailing on the
claim.”  (Digerati Holdings, LLC v. Young Money Entertainment, LLC (2011) 194
Cal.App.4th 873, 883 (Citations Omitted).)
 
“An ‘act
in furtherance of a person’s right of petition or free speech under the United
States or California Constitution in connection with a public issue’ is defined
by statute to include ‘(1) any written or oral statement or writing made before
a legislative, executive, or judicial proceeding, or any other official
proceeding authorized by law, (2) any written or oral statement or writing made
in connection with an issue under consideration or review by a legislative,
executive, or judicial body, or any other official proceeding authorized by
law, (3) any written or oral statement or writing made in a place open to the
public or a public forum in connection with an issue of public interest, or (4)
any other conduct in furtherance of the exercise of the constitutional right of
petition or the constitutional right of free speech in connection with a public
issue or an issue of public interest.’ 
If the defendant shows that the cause of action arises from a statement described
in clause (1) or
(2) of section 425.16, subdivision (e), the
defendant is not required to separately demonstrate that the statement was made
in connection with a ‘public issue.’”  (Id. (Citations Omitted).)
 
“A cause
of action is one ‘arising from’ protected activity within the meaning of section 425.16, subdivision (b)(1)
only if the defendant's act on which the cause of action is based was an act in
furtherance of the defendant's constitutional right of petition or free speech
in connection with a public issue. In deciding whether the ‘arising from’
requirement is satisfied, ‘the court shall consider the pleadings, and
supporting and opposing affidavits stating the facts upon which the liability
or defense is based.’ Whether the ‘arising from’ requirement is satisfied
depends on the ‘gravamen or principal thrust’ of the claim. A cause of action
does not arise from protected activity for purposes of the anti-SLAPP statute
if the protected activity is merely incidental to the cause of action.”  (Id. at
883-884 (Citations Omitted).) 
 
Weinstein
argues each of Plaintiff’s claims arise from Weinstein’s engagement in
protected activity. Weinstein posits that each cause of action against him
concerns the creation of television and film media which is considered
protected speech under C.C.P. § 425.16. Weinstein argues his creation of film
and television media constitute free speech and are accorded protection under
the First Amendment. Weinstein further argues that the creation of the
challenged speech is a matter of public interest. 
 
That the movies and films
created by Weinstein are protected speech is without doubt. “[I]t is beyond
dispute that movies involve free speech.” (Dyer v. Childress (2007)
147 Cal.App.4th 1273, at 1280.) As such, it remains Weinstein’s burden to show
the creation of the challenged media is of public concern as per C.C.P. §
425.16. C.C.P.  § 425.16 does not define
what matters are and are not of public interest, however the preamble states
the provisions are to be construed broadly to safeguard the exercise of free
speech (See Nygård, Inc. v. Uusi-Kerttula (2008) 159 Cal.App.4th 1027,
1039.) To this extent courts have regularly held that moving parties in an
anti-SLAPP motion need not demonstrate that the public interest in protected
speech is significant. (Id.) All that must be shown is that the
protected speech concerns a matter in which the public takes an interest (Tamkin
v. CBS Broadcasting, Inc., 193 Cal. App. 4th 133, 143.) 
 
In the supplemental
declaration of Shawn Burkley, Weinstein presents voluminous critic reviews, via
Rotten Tomatoes, and news articles, via the New York Times, with respect to
each of works Plaintiff claims appropriated her image. (Burkley Decl. Exhs. 1-37.)
The Court, having reviewed these evidentiary submissions, finds that they are
adequate to establish public interest in the relevant works. 
 
Plaintiff
also argues her claim does not “arise from” Weinstein’s protected activity
because the gravamen of her claim is that of stalking and not of appropriation.
The Court continues to find this argument unpersuasive. The creation of
television and film media is in no way merely incidental to this action. Indeed,
Plaintiff’s complaint states explicitly that the purpose for which Weinstein obtained
various details of her life was to appropriate them into film and television.
Plaintiff’s FAC contains a fact section attesting at length to this alleged
appropriation and contains no facts which indicate that the gravamen of her
claims is instead stalking. 
 
To the
extent that Plaintiff argues Weinstein Anti-SLAPP should fail because of the
illegality exception, this argument is misplaced. The illegality exception is a
narrow exception which removes otherwise protected speech from Anti-SLAPP
protection where the conduct is criminal as a matter of law. (Timothy W. v.
Julie W. (2022), 85 Cal. App. 5th 648, 660.) “Further, it applies only ‘where
either the defendant concedes the illegality of its conduct or the illegality
is conclusively shown by the evidence.’ (Id. citing Flatley v.
Mauro (2006), 39 Cal. 4th 299.) Despite Plaintiff’s contentions, there has
been no evidentiary showing on her behalf that Weinstein engaged in conduct
which is criminal as a matter of law with respect to Plaintiff’s claims. 
 
As such, the
Court finds all of Plaintiff’s causes of action arise from Defendant’s
engagement in protected activity concerning public interest. 
 
Probability
of Prevailing 
 
First
Cause of Action 
 
Plaintiff’s
first cause of action is for violation of New York Civil Rights Law § 50-51. A
cause of action under these statutes requires a plaintiff show “(1) use of plaintiff’s
name, portrait, picture or voice (2) for advertising purposes or for the
purposes of trade (3) without consent and (4) within the state of New York.” (Lohan
v. Take-Two Interactive Software, Inc., 31 N.Y.3d 111, 120 (2018).
 
“It is
well settled that Section 51 is to be construed narrowly and ‘[m]erely
suggesting certain characteristics of the plaintiff, without literally using
his or her name, portrait, or picture, is not actionable under the statute.’ [Citation].
Thus, New York courts have consistently dismissed Section 51 claims based on
the use of a fictitious name, even if the depiction at issue evokes some
characteristics of the person or the person is identifiable by reference to
external sources.” (Greene v. Paramount Pictures Corp. (E.D.N.Y.
2015) 138 F. Supp. 3d 226.)
 
Plaintiff
cannot sustain a cause of action under these statutes because the FAC contains
no allegations of the use of Plaintiff’s name, portrait, picture, or voice.
Plaintiff’s FAC contains numerous allegations of the use of vague
characteristics and names which are similar to her own, but no allegations of
the direct use of her image. Further, Plaintiff’s FAC contains no allegations
of use for advertising purposes. Plaintiff presents no argument as to this
point in her opposition. As such, the Court finds Plaintiff has not shown the
probability of succeeding on this claim. 
 
Second
and Third Causes of Action 
 
To make
out a common law cause of action for commercial misappropriation in California,
a plaintiff must allege facts showing: “(1) the defendant’s use of the
plaintiff’s identity; (2) the appropriation of plaintiff’s name or likeness to
defendant’s advantage, commercially or otherwise; (3) lack of consent; and (4)
resulting injury.” Stewart v. Rolling Stone LLC, 181 Cal. App. 4th 664,
679 (2010). 
 
California
Civil Code § 3344 prohibits the use of “another’s name, voice, signature,
photograph, or likeness, in any manner, on or in products, merchandise, or
goods, or for purposes of advertising or selling, or soliciting purchases of,
products, merchandise, goods or services” without consent.
 
In the
previous Anti-SLAPP rulings, the Court found the decision Polydorus v.
Twentieth Century Fox Film Corp., 67 Cal. App. 4th 318 to be guiding. In Polydorus,
plaintiff was a non-celebrity alleging the appropriation of his likeness in the
movie The Sandlot. (Id. at 320.) Plaintiff argued the Sandlot
incorporated several features of his life in creating one of its characters. (Id.)
These features included the use of a similar name to plaintiff’s last name and
his physical likeness as an adolescent. (Id.) Additionally, plaintiff
was a childhood schoolmate of the writer and director. (Id.) The Polydorus
court found the use of a similar last name and shared physical
characteristics to be insufficient to establish a claim for misappropriation. (Id.)
Ultimately the Court found that “…the rudimentary similarities in locale and
boyhood activities do not make The Sandlot a film about appellant's life.” (Id.
at 323.) 
 
Weinstein
argues the same should result here, as the allegations and evidence provided by
Plaintiff do not approach the level of the showing made in Polydorus.
The Court agrees. 
 
Plaintiff’s
evidence is voluminous, but none approaches the level of specificity that the Polydorus
court still found insufficient. Plaintiffs alleges that her bookshelf and
candle holder are shown in the movie Scream 4 (Falero Aff. ¶ 77.), that the
movie Bad Santa 2 features a woman with carpal tunnel and panic attacks (Falero
Aff. ¶ 82.), and that similar furnishings to hers were used in TWC’s “Mob Wives”
(Falero Aff. ¶ 93.) Plaintiff further alleges the film The Details shows
similar raccoon infestations to her own (Falero Aff ¶ 79.) and that the lead in
the movie The Railway Man also has a dark bob haircut (Falero Aff ¶ 80.). These
are but a few of the many evidentiary offerings made by Plaintiff in her
opposition to this motion. The Court finds none of these showings approach the
level required to establish the use of one’s image in a claim for
misappropriation. 
 
Other
cases in which courts have found likeness allegations sustainable in an
anti-SLAPP context generally include instances where likeness was contractually
authorized to be used but was used in a way the contract did not permit. (See (No
Doubt v. Activision Publishing, Inc. (2011) 192 Cal.App.4th 1018 [finding
the otherwise authorized use of band members images was misappropriation when
used outside the context of the agreed upon contract]; (Belen v. Ryan
Seacrest Productions, LLC (2021) 65 Cal.App.5th 1145 [finding
misappropriation in using footage of a model in a private changing room even
though she otherwise consented to filming.)
 
In short,
Plaintiff’s showings at best suggest a vague connection to film and media
produced by Weinstein over the period of several decades. None of these
evidentiary showings indicate Plaintiff could prevail in her claim that Weinstein
used her identity for purpose of misappropriation. As such, Plaintiff has not
demonstrated reasonable probability these claims would prevail. 
 
Fourth &
Fifth Cause of Action 
 
Plaintiff’s
causes of action for IIED and NIED are premised on the exact same facts as her
claims for misappropriation. 
 
“The
elements of a prima facie case for the tort of intentional infliction of
emotional distress are: (1) extreme and outrageous conduct by the defendant
with the intention of causing, or reckless disregard of the probability of
causing, emotional distress; (2) the plaintiff’s suffering severe or extreme
emotional distress; and (3) actual and proximate causation of the emotional
distress by the defendant’s outrageous conduct. Conduct to be outrageous must
be so extreme as to exceed all bounds of that usually tolerated in a civilized
community.” (Wilson v. Hynek (2012)
207 Cal.App.4th 999, 1009, citation and ellipses omitted.)
 
“The law
of negligent infliction of emotional distress in California is typically
analyzed by reference to two theories of recovery: the ‘bystander’ theory and
the ‘direct victim’ theory. The negligent causing of emotional distress is not
an independent tort, but the tort of negligence. The traditional elements of
duty, breach of duty, causation, and damages apply. Whether a defendant owes a
duty of care is a question of law.” (Spates
v. Dameron Hosp. Ass’n (2003) 114 Cal.App.4th 208, 213, ellipses, quotation
marks, brackets, and paragraph breaks omitted.)
 
Here, the
Court finds that Plaintiff’s evidence does not indicate behavior that is
extreme and outrageous. Even taking every single factual allegation as true,
the tangential relation alleged between Weinstein and Plaintiff does not
approach extreme and outrageous conduct. Further, Plaintiff makes no showing as
to the infliction of NIED under either theory supported under California law.
As such, the Court finds Plaintiff has not shown probability of succeeding on
these claims. 
 
Sixth
Cause of Action
 
A person
is liable for the tort of stalking when the plaintiff proves the defendant
engaged in a pattern of conduct the intent of which was to follow, alarm, place
under surveillance, or harass the plaintiff. In order to establish this
element, the plaintiff shall be required to support his or her allegations with
independent corroborating evidence. (Cal. Civ. Code §
1708.7(a)(1).) 
 
Plaintiff
offers no independent corroborating evidence that Weinstein engaged in such
behavior. Plaintiff’s only accounts of anything resembling any relation between
her and Weinstein is that she wrote to Weinstein for members of her writer’s
group in 2003 (Falero Aff. 38.). Plaintiff’s evidence is insufficient to show
she has a probability of prevailing on this claim. 
 
Seventh
Cause of Action 
 
Plaintiff’s
cause of action for Prima Facie Tort is one that is not recognized in
California. Plaintiff concedes as much. However, Plaintiff argues she brings
this cause of action under New York law. Ignoring the complications that come
with enforcing New York law in California, even if this law were applicable
Plaintiff would still be unable to demonstrate the probability of prevailing.
New York law holds that where prima facie tort claims are merely an alternative
catch all to conventional tort claims they cannot be sustained. (Freihofer
v. Hearst Corp. (1985) 65 N.Y.2d 135 at 143.) Plaintiff offerors no
independent facts which distinguish this claim for the myriad of other tort
claims she asserts. It is apparent to the Court that this cause of action is
meant to be an alternative means to the other causes of actions associated and
cannot stand on its own. As such, Plaintiff has not demonstrated likelihood of
success. 
 
Eighth
Cause of Action 
 
In order
to state a claim for negligence, Plaintiff must allege the elements of (1) “the
existence of a legal duty of care,” (2) “breach of that duty,” and (3)
“proximate cause resulting in an injury.” (McIntyre
v. Colonies-Pacific, LLC (2014) 228 Cal.App.4th 664, 671.)
 
The Court
notes the causes of action for negligence is based on the same facts as the
causes of action for misappropriation. At no point in the FAC does Plaintiff
allege Harvey Weinstein personally sexually assaulted or predatorily stalked
her. Plaintiff’s claims are based entirely on the allegation that Harvey
Weinstein stalked her for the purpose of incorporating elements of her life
into various film and TV productions. Plaintiffs evidence offered in opposition
does nothing to cure this defect.  The
element of breach of a duty of care in a negligence cause of action has not
been shown to exist here. Nor has the element of harm in a negligent hiring
action been shown. 
 
---
 
RULING:
 
In the
event the parties submit on this tentative ruling, or a party requests a signed
order or the court in its discretion elects to sign a formal order, the following
form will be either electronically signed or signed in hard copy and entered
into the court’s records. 
 
ORDER 
 
Defendant Harvey
Weinstein’s Special Motion to Strike came on
regularly for hearing on September 21, 2023, with appearances/submissions as
noted in the minute order for said hearing, and the court, being fully advised
in the premises, did then and there rule as follows: 
 
THE
SPECIAL MOTION TO STRIKE IS GRANTED. 
 
DEFENDANT
WEINSTEIN TO GIVE NOTICE, UNLESS ALL PARTIES WAIVE NOTICE.
 
DATE:  September 21, 2023                            _______________________________ 
                                                                   
    F.M. TAVELMAN, Judge 
Superior Court of California 
County of
Los Angeles 
 
 
 