  Case Number:  22BBCV00358    Hearing Date:   September 21, 2023    Dept:  A LOS
ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT
NORTH
CENTRAL DISTRICT - BURBANK
DEPARTMENT
A
 

TENTATIVE
RULING 
(Revised)
SEPTEMBER 21,
2023

MOTION
TO QUASH SERVICE OF SUMMONS

Los Angeles Superior Court
Case # 22BBCV00358

 



MP:  


Archstone
  Distribution, LLC (Cross-Complainant)




RP:  


EcoSoft SPC and EcoSoft WaterSystems
  (Specially Appearing Cross-Defendants)



 
ALLEGATIONS: 
 
This
action stems from the malfunctioning of a water filtration system which was
installed in a doctor’s office in Burbank, CA. Sentinel Insurance Company
(“Sentinel”), the insurer for the office, seeks indemnification for the
approximately $926,379.54 in damages caused by the leak of the filter. (Compl.
¶ 27.) Sentinel’s Complaint alleges the filter was provided by Archstone Distribution,
LLC (“Archstone”) who in turn purchased the filter from Amazon.com. (Compl. ¶
17.) Archstone alleges that the company who sold the filter through Amazon was
Clean Sip LLC. (Cross-Compl. ¶ 9.) Archstone further alleges that EcoSoft SPC
is the company who manufactured the malfunctioning filter. (Id.) 
 
EcoSoft
SPC and EcoSoft WaterSystems now specially appear and move to quash the service
of process from Archstone.  These parties
assert that service has not been properly rendered and that the Court lacks
personal jurisdiction over them. Archstone opposes. EcoSoft SPC and EcoSoft
WaterSystems reply. 
  
ANALYSIS: 
 
I.               
LEGAL
STANDARD 
 
A
defendant, on or before the last day of her time to plead or within any further
time that the court for good cause may allow, may move to quash service of
summons on the ground of lack of jurisdiction over her. (C.C.P. § 418.10(a);
see Greener v. Workers' Comp. Appeals Bd. (1993) 6 Cal.4th 1028, 1036.)
For a court to have personal jurisdiction over a defendant, two elements are
required: (1) there must be some basis for exercising personal jurisdiction
over the defendant, i.e., defendant's consent, physical presence, domicile, or
minimum contacts; and (2) service of summons must be proper. (Ziller Elecs.
Lab. GmbH v. Superior Court (1988) 206 Cal.App.3d 1222, 1229.)
 
A motion
to quash service of summons can be used to challenge one or both elements
of personal jurisdiction. (Id.) When the defendant makes
a motion to quash, the burden is on the plaintiff to prove, by a
preponderance of the evidence facts justifying the exercise of jurisdiction
over the defendant. (See id. at 1232-1233 [If a defendant
files a motion to quash service of summons, the plaintiff has the
burden to establish both elements of personal jurisdiction].) Thus, a
plaintiff must file an opposition to defeat a motion to quash. (See Floveyor
Internat., Ltd. v. Superior Court (1997) 59 Cal.App.4th 789,
794 [defendant does not have to act on motion to quash until
plaintiff makes prima facie showing of jurisdiction].) 
 
Further,
such a motion must establish personal jurisdiction on any grounds
challenged by the defendants; if the defendant alleges that there is no basis
for personal jurisdiction and that service was improper, the
plaintiff must establish both a basis for personal jurisdiction and
proper service. (See Ziller, supra, 206 Cal.App.3d at 1229.)
The mere allegations of facts or allegations in an unverified complaint are
insufficient to establish jurisdiction for these purposes. (In re Automobile
Antitrust Cases I & II (2005) 145 Cal.App.4th 100, 100.)
 
II.             
REQUEST
FOR JUDICIAL NOTICE & EVIDENTIARY OBJECTIONS 
 
Archstone
requests judicial notice of the California Secretary of State information for
Down Town Wholesalers, Inc. and Clean Sip, LLC pursuant to Evidence Code § 452.
Archstone’s request is granted. 
 
Specially
appearing parties’ evidentiary objections to the declaration of Michael Jenkins
are taken deferred to the next court date. 
 
III.           
MERITS 
 
Service
Pursuant to Hague Convention 
 
Moving
parties first argue that service has not been effectuated in accordance with
the Hague Service Convention. EcoSoft SPC is located in Ukraine, and EcoSoft
WaterSystems is located in Germany. 
 
Ukraine
has objected to Article 10 of the Hague Service Convention. Where a country has
objected to Article 10 of the Hague Convention - service through the Central
Authority is the only valid method of serving process abroad. (Hague Service
Convention, T.I.A.S. No. 6638, 20 U.S.T. 361 (U.S. Treaty); Articles 2 through
10.)
 
EcoSoft
SPC originally argued that no proof of service had been filed showing such
service was effectuated on the central authority. After the motion was filed
Archstone filed a proof of service which showed service on the central
authority for Ukraine on June 6, 2023. Accordingly, EcoSoft SPC’s motion to
this end is moot. 
 
No
proof of service has been submitted regarding EcoSoft WaterSystems. As such,
the motion to quash as to EcoSoft WaterSystems is GRANTED. 
 
Personal
Jurisdiction 
 
EcoSoft
SPC argues service should be quashed because the Court lacks personal
jurisdiction. 
 
Personal
Jurisdiction in General 
 
A
California court can exercise personal jurisdiction over a nonresident
defendant who has “minimum contacts” with the state. (Pavlovich v. Superior
Court (2002) 29 Cal.4th 262, 268; Virtualmagic Asia, Inc. v.
Fil-Cartoons, Inc. (2002) 99 Cal.App.4th 228, 238.) A defendant has minimum
contacts if the quality and nature of its activity in the forum state (referred
to as “contacts”) is such that it is reasonable and fair to require the
defendant to conduct a defense in that state. (Pavlovich, supra, at 268;
Strasner v. Touchstone Wireless Repair & Logistics, LP (2016) 5
Cal.App.5th 215, 221.) 
 
The
exists two types of personal jurisdiction: “general” (sometimes called
“all-purpose”) jurisdiction and “specific” (sometimes called “case-linked”)
jurisdiction. (Bristol-Myers Squibb Co. v. Superior Court of California, San
Francisco County (2017) 582 U.S. 255, 262.) 
 
Archstone
argues both for the exercise of general and specific personal jurisdiction in
its opposition. The Court will analyze each of these arguments in turn. 
 
General
Jurisdiction 
 
Under
a “general” jurisdiction analysis, nonresident defendants may be sued on causes
of action unrelated to their activities within the state. (Cornelison v.
Chaney (1976) 16 Cal.3d 143, 147.) 
 
Only
a “limited set” of affiliations with a forum state will render a defendant
subject to general jurisdiction. “For an individual, the paradigm forum for the
exercise of general jurisdiction is the individual’s domicile; for a
corporation, it is an equivalent place, one in which the corporation is fairly
regarded as at home” (Daimler AG v. Bauman (2014) 571 US 117, 137.) 
 
Here,
Archstone cannot allege general personal jurisdiction as traditionally
constructed. EcoSoft SPC cannot be considered “at home” under any of the
traditional metrics espoused in Daimler. Instead, Archstone argues
EcoSoft SPC is subject to general personal jurisdiction by virtue of an alter
ego or agency theory. Archstone argues Clean Sip LLC, a cross-defendant in this
action, is an alter ego of EcoSoft SPC operating within the United States.
 
California
courts have held that the mere ownership of a subsidiary does not subject a
nonresident parent company to general personal jurisdiction based on the
subsidiary’s forum contacts. (Sonora Diamond Corp. v. Superior Court
(2000) 83 Cal.App.4th 523, 540; DVI v. Superior Court (2002) 104
Cal.App.4th 1080, 1092.) Several courts have held or suggested, however, that
principles of “alter ego” and “agency,” including the “representative services”
doctrine, can justify the exercise of general personal jurisdiction over a
nonresident defendant. (Sonora Diamond, supra, at 537-543; DVI, supra,
at 1093-1094.)
 
To
pierce the corporate veil between a parent and subsidiary under the alter ego
theory, the plaintiff must show (1) that there is such a unity of interest and
ownership between the parent and subsidiary that the separate personalities of
the entities no longer exists; and (2) that failure to disregard the corporate
forms would result in fraud or injustice. (Sonora Diamond, supra, 83
Cal.App.4th at 539.) When the corporate form is used to perpetrate a fraud,
circumvent a statute, or accomplish some other wrongful or inequitable purpose,
the courts will ignore the corporate entity and deem the corporation’s acts to
be those of the persons or organizations actually controlling the corporation,
in most instances the equitable owners. Alter ego is an extreme remedy, used
sparingly. (Id.)
 
Archstone
provides an Asset Purchase Agreement between Andrii Mitchenko (Chief Executive
Director of EcoSoft SPC) and Down Town Wholesalers, Inc. as Exhibit E to its
opposition. This Asset Purchase Agreement is also between Clean Sip, LLC.
Andrii Mitchenko is listed as the Member/Manager of Clean Sip, LLC. (Id.)
This Purchase Agreement references a Distribution Agreement between Down Town
Wholesalers and EcoSoft SPC. (Id. Exh E, p. 6.) Archstone generally
argues that alter ego may be found because EcoSoft SPC and Clean Sip, LLC share
an executive in Mitchenko. Archstone also argues that the Asset Purchase
Agreement appears shows Clean Sip LLC conveying rights of EcoSoft SPC, which it
could not do unless they were the same corporate entity. 
 
In
reply, EcoSoft SPC submits the declaration of Mitchenko. Mitchenko states Clean
Sipp LLC was incorporated in New York and dissolved in 2020. (Mitchenko Supp. Decl.
¶ 2.) He also states that EcoSoft SPC and Clean Sip were separate entities
and did not share leadership, bank accounts, or employees. (Id. ¶¶ 4-5.)
 
Specific
Jurisdiction
 
A
court can exercise specific jurisdiction over a nonresident defendant if (1)
the defendant has purposefully availed itself of the forum's benefits and
protections and (2) the cause of action relates to or arises out of the
defendant's contacts with the forum, and (3) the exercise of personal
jurisdiction would comport with fair play and substantial justice. (Pavlovich,
supra, 29 Cal.4th at 269.) The contacts for specific jurisdiction are those
that existed when the plaintiff's cause of action arose. (Strasner, supra,
5 Cal.App.5th at 226.)
 
To
establish minimum contacts for specific jurisdiction, the plaintiff must show
that the defendant has purposefully availed itself of the privilege of
conducting activities in California to involve its benefits and protections.
(See Axiom Foods, Inc. v. Acerchem Int'l (9th Cir. 2017) 874 F.3d 1064,
1068; Bristol-Myers supra, 1 Cal.5th 783, 799-800.) In this analysis,
(1) only the defendant's contacts with California are considered, not the
defendant's contacts with persons who reside there, (2) the defendant's
contacts must have been purposeful rather than random, fortuitous, or
attenuated, and (3) the defendant must have sought some benefit by availing
itself of the jurisdiction. (See Walden v. Fiore (2014) 571 U.S. 277,
285-286; Burger King Corp. v. Rudzewicz (1985) 471 U.S. 462, 474-475; Vons
Cos., supra, 14 Cal.4th at pp. 446, 458.)
 
Here,
Archstone argues personal jurisdiction is proper because EcoSoft SPC has
purposefully availed itself of the State of California. As evidence of this,
Archstone submits the declaration of its counsel Michael Jenkins. Jenkins
states that he ordered a water filter from www.ecosoftwater.com to his home in
Northridge, California in March of 2022. (Jenkins Decl. ¶ 2.) Jenkins states
the address listed for ecosoftwater in one of the email communications was 5899
S. Downey Rd., Vernon, CA 90058. (Id.) Jenkins also submits the label of
the package he received which is labeled as follows: 
 
Shipping Department 
Brio Water Technology 
CDW Warehouse 
768 Turnbull Canyon 
Hacienda Heights CA 91745
 
Jenkins
states that, at the time he ordered the filter, www.ecosoftwater.com claimed
its corporate offices were the Turnbull Canyon address. (Id. at ¶ 4.) In
reply, EcoSoft SPC submits the declaration of Mitchenko. Mitchenko states that
Down Town Wholesalers “provide distribution services to the EcoSoft Entities in
connection with products sold in the United States for the period of September
2019 through the present. Those services are provided pursuant to a
distribution contract and invoices and purchase orders between the companies.”
(Id. ¶ 9.) 
 
The
relatedness component of specific jurisdiction does not require the activity in
the forum state to be the cause of action. (See Daimler Trucks North America
LLC v. Superior Court (2022) 80 Cal.App.5th 946, 956, citing Ford Motor
Company v. Montana Eighth Judicial District Court (2021) 141 S.Ct. 1017.) “The
first half of the arise out of or relate to standard asks about causation; but
the back half, after the or contemplates that some relationships will support
jurisdiction without a causal showing.” (Id., [internal quotations and
citations omitted].)
 
On
the other hand, the California Appellate Court has found that where an out-of-state
company imported products into a state where the injury occurred, but did not
import the specific product at issue, there was so specific jurisdiction. (LG
Chem, Ltd. v. Superior Court of San Diego County (2022) 80 Cal.App.5th
348.) The Court in LG Chem found that the logic of Ford which
eschewed causation depended on the rationale that Ford has specifically “systematically
served a market”. (Id. at 367.) Conversely, the LG Chem court
found that specific jurisdiction was lacking where LG had not advertised,
marketed, or solicited buyers for the product at issue (a battery component for
electric vehicles). (Id.)  The LG
Chem court also noted that the Ford
court had found Ford’s activity had fostered the sort of consumer behavior
which laid the foundation for the claims at issue. (Id.) The court noted
that LG had taken active steps to prevent the consumer behavior which
established the claim in LG Chem. (Id.) 
 
Continuance
for Limited Jurisdictional Discovery
 
A
trial court has discretion to continue a hearing on a motion to quash for lack
of personal jurisdiction to allow a plaintiff to conduct discovery on
jurisdictional issues. (Burdick v. Superior Court (2015) 233 Cal.App.4th
8, 30.) A party seeking a continuance in order to conduct jurisdictional
discovery must make a showing that such discovery is likely to produce evidence
to establish personal jurisdiction. (Id.)
 
Plaintiff
requests a denial of the Motion to Quash, or in the alternative a continuance
for jurisdictional discovery.   For the
reasons stated in Plaintiff’s moving papers, the Court agrees that additional
jurisdictional discovery would be appropriate. 
The Court clarifies that this continuance for Plaintiffs' additional
jurisdictional discovery is not intended to serve as a blank check to broadly
inquire into new areas/topics/categories beyond this limited scope.
 
Supplemental
Briefing
 
The
parties shall file supplemental briefing before the continued hearing date as
follows:
 
No
later than sixteen (16) court days before the continued hearing date,
Plaintiffs shall file and serve a Supplemental Brief Opposing Motion to Quash
that discusses any new evidence that supports their jurisdictional arguments,
including supporting any evidence and declarations. The brief shall be limited
to ten (10) pages of argument, and shall be focused only on any "new"
evidence not discussed in the original Opposition papers.
 
No
later than nine (9) court days before the continued hearing date, moving
parties shall file and serve a Supplemental Brief in Support of Motion to Quash
that responds to Plaintiffs' filing. The brief shall be limited to ten (10)
pages of argument, and shall be focused only on any "new" evidence
raised in Plaintiffs' supplemental filing.
 
--- 
 
RULING:
 
In the
event the parties submit on this tentative ruling, or a party requests a signed
order or the court in its discretion elects to sign a formal order, the
following form will be either electronically signed or signed in hard copy and
entered into the court’s records. 
 
ORDER 
 
EcoSoft SPC and
EcoSoft WaterSystems’ Motion to Quash Service of Summons came on regularly for hearing on September 21, 2023, after being
continued due to technical issues related to a remote reporter, with
appearances/submissions as noted in the minute order for said hearing, and the
court, being fully advised in the premises, did then and there rule as
follows: 
 
ECOSOFT
WATERSYSTEMS MOTION TO QUASH IS CONTINUED.  
PLAINTIFF’S REQUEST FOR ADDITIONAL JURISDICTIONAL DISCOVERY IS GRANTED. 
 
MOTION TO
QUASH IS CONTINUED TO DECEMBER 29, 2023, OR TO SUCH OTHER DATE THAT IS
AVAILABLE WITH THE COURT AND THE PARTIES STIPULATE TO.  HEARING SHALL BE AT 9:00 A.M.
 
UNLESS
ALL PARTIES WAIVE NOTICE, ARCHSTONE TO GIVE NOTICE. 
 
IT IS SO
ORDERED. 
 
DATE: 
September 21, 2023                           _______________________________ 
                                                                   
    F.M. TAVELMAN, Judge 
Superior Court of California 
County of
Los Angeles 
 
 