 Case Number:  22VECV01343    Hearing Date:   September 24, 2024    Dept:  T GEVSHANYAN V KAISER 22VECV01343
C/W 24VECV01664
[TENTATIVE] ORDER:  [NEGLIGENCE CASE] Defendants Kaiser
Foundation Hospitals; Southern California Permanente Medical Group; and Kaiser
Foundation Health Plan, Inc.’s Demurrer to the Second Amended Complaint is
OVERRULED.
Defendants Kaiser Foundation
Hospitals; Southern California Permanente Medical Group; and Kaiser Foundation
Health Plan, Inc.’s Motion to Strike Portions of the Second Amended Complaint
is DENIED.
Defendants Kaiser Foundation
Hospitals; Southern California Permanente Medical Group; and Kaiser Foundation
Health Plan, Inc. are ORDERED to file a singular Answer to ALL Causes of Action
alleged in the Second Amended Complaint and alleged in the concurrent Complaint
within 20 days.
Introduction 
Defendants Kaiser Foundation
Hospitals; Southern California Permanente Medical Group; Kaiser Foundation
Health Plan, Inc. (collectively, Defendants) demurred to Plaintiff Mike
Gevshanyan (Mike) and Agapi Gevshanyan’s (Agapi) (collectively, Plaintiffs) Second
Amended Complaint (SAC).  Defendants’
demurrer placed into issue the second cause of action (COA) for Statutory
Dependent Adult Abuse/Neglect. 
Defendants further moved to strike the request for punitive and
exemplary damages under the second COA.
Procedure
On June 27, 2024, the Court
consolidated case nos. 22VECV01343 and 24VECV01664 “for all purposes.”  (See Court’s June 27, 2024 Minute
Order.)  When consolidation is ordered
“for all purposes,” the pleadings are regarded as merged, one set of findings
is made, and one judgment is rendered. 
(Hamilton v. Asbestos Corp., Ltd. (2000) 22 Cal.4th 1127,
1147-1148.)  Because the two pleadings
are effectively merged, the filing of separate attacks on the pleadings in the
two cases is not warranted.  Because the
attacks on the pleadings were filed prior to consolidation, the Court reviewed
the separate demurrers and motions to strike filed in both cases.  However, proceeding forward in this
litigation, the Court considers the two pleadings to be a singular
pleading.  The parties are ordered to
litigate the matter as a singular action.
Discussion 
Previously at the January 18,
2024 hearing on the demurrer to the First Amended Complaint, the Court found
the second COA to be insufficiently supported with factual allegations as to
employer liability (i.e., the employee committing the acts was an officer,
director or managing agent of Defendants acting on behalf of Defendants; or
that an officer, director, or managing agent of Defendants had advance
knowledge of the unfitness of the employee who committed the acts and employed
the employee with a knowing disregard of the rights or safety of others; or
that an officer, director, or managing agent of Defendants authorized the
conduct of the employee who committed the acts; or that an officer, director,
or managing agent of Defendants knew of the wrongful conduct of the employee
who committed the acts and adopted or approved the conduct after it occurred
(CACI no. 3102B).  Defendants argued that
the SAC’s second COA again suffers the same pleading defect.  However, the SAC expressly alleged
authorization, ratification, and/or prior knowledge of the unfitness of an
employee (i.e., Mike’s assigned nurses) by Defendants’ officer, director, or
managing agent.  Specifically,
Defendants’ officers, directors, or managing agents understaffed the facilities
that treated Mike and that these decisions to understaff were made, authorized,
or ratified by officers, directors, or managing agents.  Further, the unfitness of Mike’s nurses were
alleged to be known by Defendants and employed by Defendants anyway.  (SAC pars. 12.5, 20-22, 36 37.3, and
37.6.)  Specifically naming the officers,
directors, or managing agents, whether or not they are part of Mike’s treating
nurses, is not required and facts regarding identities can be disclosed during
discovery.  The Court disagrees with
Defendants and does not find the argument persuasive.  Plaintiffs sufficiently cured the pleading
defect.
The demurrer to the SAC’s second
COA is OVERRULED.
As to the motion to strike,
Defendants argued that the SAC failed to plead facts to show authorization,
ratification, and/or prior knowledge of the unfitness of an employee on the
part of an officer, director, or managing agent.  (Code Civ. Proc., sec. 3294.)  The argument is the same issue reviewed above
in the demurrer to the SAC’s second COA. 
The Court did not find the argument persuasive in the demurrer and again
does not find the argument persuasive in the concurrent Motion to Strike.
Defendants’ motion to strike
punitive and exemplary damages from the second COA is DENIED.  
_______________________________________________________________________
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER:  [WRONGFUL DEATH CASE] Defendants Kaiser
Foundation Hospitals; Southern California Permanente Medical Group; and Kaiser
Foundation Health Plan, Inc.’s Demurrer to the Complaint is OVERRULED.
Defendants Kaiser Foundation
Hospitals; Southern California Permanente Medical Group; and Kaiser Foundation
Health Plan, Inc.’s Motion to Strike Portions of the Complaint is DENIED.
Defendants Kaiser Foundation
Hospitals; Southern California Permanente Medical Group; and Kaiser Foundation
Health Plan, Inc. are ORDERED to file a singular Answer to ALL Causes of Action
alleged in the Complaint and alleged in the concurrent Second Amended Complaint
within 20 days.
Introduction 
Defendants Kaiser Foundation
Hospitals; Southern California Permanente Medical Group; Kaiser Foundation
Health Plan, Inc. (collectively, Defendants) demurred to Plaintiffs Agapi,
Suzie, and Maryann Gevshanyan’s (collectively, Plaintiffs) Complaint.  Defendants’ demurrer placed into issue the
second cause of action (COA) for Dependent Adult Abuse/Neglect (Wrongful
Death).  Defendants further moved to
strike the entirety of the second COA and all requested damages in the Prayer
under the second COA.
Procedure
On June 27, 2024, the Court
consolidated case nos. 22VECV01343 and 24VECV01664 “for all purposes.”  (See Court’s June 27, 2024 Minute
Order.)  When consolidation is ordered
“for all purposes,” the pleadings are regarded as merged, one set of findings
is made, and one judgment is rendered. 
(Hamilton v. Asbestos Corp., Ltd. (2000) 22 Cal.4th 1127,
1147-1148.)  Because the two pleadings
are effectively merged, the filing of separate attacks on the pleadings in the
two cases is not warranted.  Because the
attacks on the pleadings were filed prior to consolidation, the Court reviewed
the separate demurrers and motions to strike filed in both cases.  However, proceeding forward in this
litigation, the Court considers the two pleadings to be a singular
pleading.  The parties are ordered to
litigate the matter as a singular action.
Discussion 
Defendants argued that the second
COA is not a recognized COA and duplicative of the first COA for medical
negligence (wrongful death).  “The
elements of a wrongful death cause of action are the tort (negligence or other
wrongful act), the resulting death, and the damages, consisting of the
pecuniary loss suffered by the heirs.” 
(Quiroz v. Seventh Ave. Center (2006) 140 Cal.App.4th 1258, 1263; see
also Code Civ. Proc., sec. 377.60.)  In
the instant action, Plaintiffs alleged two separate torts to ground their
wrongful death claim – medical negligence and dependent adult
abuse/neglect.  Because the wrongful
death COA is grounded on two separate torts, the first and second COAs are not
duplicative.  However, it is noted that a
wrongful death COA is usually seen as a single COA grounded in all the
underlying torts alleged in the operative pleading.  (Holland v. Silverscreen Healthcare, Inc.,
review granted August 21, 2024, S285429 (Holland); Valentine v. Plum Healthcare
Group, LLC (2019) 37 Cal.App.5th 1076, 7083; Avila v. Southern California
Specialty Care, Inc. (2018) 20 Cal.App.5th 835, 838-839; Daniels v. Sunrise
Senior Living, Inc. (2013) 212 Cal.App;.4th 674, 677-678.)  Plaintiffs’ separation of the torts that form
the basis for the wrongful death COAs makes the Complaint confusing.  However, when reviewing the pleading
elements, it is not seen as being improper for Plaintiffs to separate out the
wrongful death COAs into two COA grounded on two separate torts: negligence and
based upon dependent adult abuse/neglect. 
Defendants’ arguments that the second COA being duplicative and not
recognized is unpersuasive.  
Defendants argued that Plaintiffs
lack standing to allege the second COA based upon the Holland opinion.  However, Defendants’ argument relying upon
Holland is not persuasive because the case is being reviewed by the California
Supreme Court.  The Court does not agree
with Defendants that Plaintiffs’ second COA is their own dependent
abuse/neglect COA.  The Court reads the
Complaint’s second COA as being a wrongful death COA grounded on the dependent
abuse/neglect tort.  The argument is not
persuasive.
Defendants argued that the second
COA, if read as a dependent abuse/neglect COA, is not alleged with sufficient
supportive facts.  Because the Court
reads the second COA as being a wrongful death COA and not a dependent
abuse/neglect COA, Defendants’ additional arguments disputing the sufficiency
of the facts alleged to plead the elements of dependent abuse/neglect is
moot.  
The demurrer to the second COA
for wrongful death grounded upon dependent adult/neglect is OVERRULED.
Defendants’ motion to strike the
second COA asserted the same arguments made in the concurrent demurrer.  Because the arguments in the demurrer were
not persuasive, the arguments made in the motion to strike also failed.  The Court disagrees with Defendants’
contention that the second COA is actually a dependent abuse/neglect
claim.  As reviewed above, the COA is for
wrongful death.
Defendants’ motion to strike is
DENIED.  
IT IS SO ORDERED, CLERK TO GIVE
NOTICE.