 Case Number:  22VECV00647    Hearing Date:   September 24, 2024    Dept:  T 22VECV00647  Tarzana v Work The court  has reviewed the objections and refusals to answer by Mr. Work at his  deposition.  The objections are without  merit.  Neither he nor Mr. Reinsdorf are  lawyers.  The information requested does  not touch on any attorneys work product.   The information requested is not protected by attorney client privilege.  Mr. Work’s understanding is not in accordance  with the law. California  recognizes the common interest doctrine as a "nonwaiver doctrine"  whereby disclosure is permitted between parties without waiver of privileges  where communications would otherwise be protected by the attorney-client  privilege or the attorney work-product doctrine and where the disclosure is  necessary to accomplish the purpose for which the legal advice was sought. OXY  Res. California v. Superior Court, 115 Cal. App. 4th 874, 889 (2004), as  modified (Mar. 4, 2004); Citizens for Ceres v. Superior Court, 217 Cal. App.  4th 889, 914 (2013). For two  persons who are working together in litigation, and neither are lawyers, they  do not have a privilege to refuse to disclose their discussions if the  underlying discussions are not themselves privileged in some manner.  The common interest “privilege” is not a  standalone privilege. As concerning  the Joint Defense Agreement issue, the question is whether the parties are  truly aligned.  Here, they are not.  Mr. Reinsdorf seeks to prevent his personal  responsibility for something unclear, as he is not being sued. Mr. Work seeks  to prevent his personal liability for damages to property that Mr. Reinsdorf  seems to be claiming to own.  They are  not aligned. Finally,  Mr. Work submitted the declaration of Mr. Reinsdorf in support of his motion  for summary adjudication.  That  declaration and communications between them are fair game for the deposition of  Mr. Work.  Mr. Work cannot use the  declaration as a sword and then attempt to hide behind a non-existent privilege  as a shield to test the truth of the matters stated in the declaration. The court  grants the motion in the first instance and orders Mr. Work to answer the  questions to which he refused to answer, to proceed with the completion of his  deposition, and to produce the documents that he refused to produce, prior to  the next session of his deposition which is to take place on 10/8/2024 at 9:30  a.m. or at any other date and time by prior written agreement with plaintiff’s  counsel.  The  documents to be produced are the following categories: 1, 2, 3, 9,  10, 11, 12, 13, 14.  The rest are denied. The court  will set a hearing on monetary sanctions.