On June 25, 2024, Plaintiffs Angel Escudero, Maria Armenta, Elizabeth Armenta, and Monei Ortiz filed a Complaint for (1) elder abuse, (2) violation of Patient Bill of Rights, (3) negligence, and (4) wrongful death. Defendants Riverside Healthcare & Wellness Centre, LLC and Rockport Administrative Services, LLC now seek to compel arbitration of this matter. Plaintiffs argue that “1. The agreement is unenforceable because plaintiff lacked capacity to enter into the agreement; 2. The Wrongful Death Claims are not arbitrable as the agreement cannot bind plaintiffs in their individual capacities because they did not sign it; 3. The agreement is both procedurally and substantively unconscionable. [ ]; 4. Defendant failed to authenticate Mr. Escudero’s signature. [ ]; 5. Enforcing arbitration against this defendant would result in conflicting rulings of law and findings of fact. C.C.P. 1281.2.”The subject arbitration agreement includes a delegation clause.  Parties to an arbitration agreement may agree to delegate to the arbitrator, instead of a court, questions regarding the enforceability of the agreement.”  (Pinela v. Neiman Marcus Group, Inc. (2015) 238 Cal.App.4th 227, 239.)   “There are two prerequisites for a delegation clause to be effective. First, the language of the clause must be clear and unmistakable. [Citation.] Second, the delegation must not be revocable under state contract defenses such as fraud, duress, or unconscionability.”  (Aanderud v. Superior Court (2017) 13 Cal.App.5th 880, 891-892.)  Here, the language of the delegation clause is clear and unmistakable: “The arbitrator, and not any federal, state, or local court or agency, shall have the exclusive authority to resolve any Dispute relating to the interpretation, applicability, enforceability, or formation of this Agreement, including, but not limited to, any claim that all or any part of this Agreement is void or voidable.”Further, Plaintiffs have failed to establish the substantive unconscionability of the delegation clause itself. Thus, the Motion to Compel Arbitration is granted.  The arbitrator is to determine arbitrability.  This action is stayed pending the resolution of arbitration.  (Code Civ. Proc. § 1281.4.)    Moving party to give notice.