On October 27, 2023, this action was stayed pending a ruling on a motion to compel arbitration filed by Defendants Scientology International and Bridge Publications, Inc.On October 10, 2024, the Court granted a motion for leave to conduct discovery filed by Defendants and “limited [the discovery] to the deposition of Kent regarding arbitration and as to the plaintiff regarding arbitration.”Plaintiff Jane Doe now seeks reconsideration of the aforementioned October 10, 2024, ruling.  Specifically, Plaintiff argues that the Court “should (a) reconsider the Minute Order, hold in abeyance for 21 days the Motion for Leave to Conduct Discovery in order to afford CSI an opportunity to make its declarant, Ms. Ruth Speidel, available for cross-examination, absent which the Speidel declaration will be stricken and the Motion for Leave to Conduct Discovery denied; (b) in the alternative, reconsider the Minute Order, hold in abeyance Defendants’ Motion for Leave to Conduct Discovery, insofar as it requests a deposition of Plaintiff, until after Defendants depose Mr. Kent, and adjudicate Defendants’ request to depose Plaintiff at that time; (c) in the alternative, reconsider the Minute Order and order that, prior to any deposition of Plaintiff, Defendants first provide to Plaintiff all materials on which Defendants intend to rely during any deposition of Plaintiff; and (d) in any event, reconsider the Minute Order and limit the relief granted to nothing greater than the relief sought by Defendants in their Motion for Leave to Conduct Discovery.”Code Civ. Proc. § 1008(a) provides, “When an application for an order has been made to a judge, or to a court, and refused in whole or in part, or granted, or granted conditionally, or on terms, any party affected by the order may, within 10 days after service upon the party of written notice of entry of the order and based upon new or different facts, circumstances, or law, make application to the same judge or court that made the order, to reconsider the matter and modify, amend, or revoke the prior order. The party making the application shall state by affidavit what application was made before, when and to what judge, what order or decisions were made, and what new or different facts, circumstances, or law are claimed to be shown.”Plaintiff first argues that “Defendants relied on the declaration of Ms. Speidel, Plaintiff’s mother. Due process demands either that Plaintiff be permitted to cross-examine Ms. Speidel or that the Speidel declaration be stricken.”  This is incorrect; there is no requirement that an evidentiary hearing take place in connection with law and motion practice.  If Defendants ever file supplemental matters in connection with their motion to compel arbitration, Plaintiff will have an opportunity to respond and present other evidence.   Plaintiff next argues, “Defendants relied on the withdrawal of Plaintiff’s prior counsel, Brad Edwards, to suggest that Plaintiff may have destroyed evidence relating to Defendant’s Motion to Compel Arbitration. Plaintiff has new evidence, in the form of a declaration from Mr. Edwards, that shows Defendants’ argument to be unsound.”  This, however, does not directly address whether Kent committed underlying misconduct with respect to spoliation or whether Plaintiff’s deposition is still warranted.Next, Plaintiff contends that “in the event that Defendants are permitted to depose either Mr. Kent or Plaintiff, basic fairness demands that the documents on which Defendants would rely at those depositions be produced to Plaintiff in advance of any deposition.”  There is no such requirement.  On the contrary, the deponent is typically required to produce documents.  Plaintiff also argues that “Defendants requested narrow relief in their Motion for Leave to Conduct Discovery and at the hearing on that motion, and this Court suggested at that hearing that it only would grant even narrower relief. But the Minute Order grants relief far broader than that requested by Defendants. Due process requires that any relief this Court grants be limited to that requested by Defendants in their Motion for Leave to Conduct Discovery.”Respectfully, the Court does not find its minute order stating that discovery is limited to “arbitration” issues to be improperly broad, and it is not apparent that Defendants will pursue any improper or uncontemplated matters at this time.The Court also sees little reason to first depose Kent and then relitigate the issue of whether Plaintiff’s deposition would be proper.  These depositions should not be overly lengthy and if Plaintiff/Kent did not destroy evidence, the depositions should be simple and straightforward.In sum, the Motion for Reconsideration is denied.  The objections are overruled.Moving party to give notice.