 Case Number:  22STCV24138    Hearing Date:   November 8, 2023    Dept:  27  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL
DISTRICT
 



CHIQUITA RANDLE, etc. et al., 
                   Plaintiff,
          vs.
 
VINODBHAI
  C. BHAGAT etc., et al.,
 
                   Defendants.
 


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


      CASE NO.: 22STCV24138
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: DEMURRER TO FIRST AMENDED COMPLAINT, OR IN THE ALTERNATIVE, MOTION
  FOR JUDGMENT ON THE PLEADINGS; MOTIONS TO STRIKE 


 
Dept.
  27
1:30
  p.m.
November
  8, 2023



 
MOVING PARTIES: Defendants Ramesh Bhagat, Hansa Bhagat,
Ankur Patel, Krina Vinodbhai Bhagat, Akash Pael, Jignesh Patel, Town Motel,
L.P., and Bhagat Investments Century LLC (collectively, the “Bhagat
Defendants”); Defendant Vinodbhai C. Bhagat (“Defendant Vinodbhai”)  
RESPONDING PARTY: Plaintiff Chiquita Randle  
 
I.           
INTRODUCTION
On
July 26, 2022, Plaintiffs Chiquita Randle and The Estate of Huey Paul Randle,
by and through its Successor-in-Interest, Chiquita Randle (collectively,
“Plaintiffs”) filed a complaint against Defendants
Vinodbhai C. Bhagat, Ramesh Bhagat, Hansa Bhagat, Ankur Patel, Krina Vinodbhai
Bhagat, Akash Patel, Jignesh Patel, Town Motel, LP, Bhagat Investments Century,
LLC and Does 1 to 50. The complaint alleges causes of action for: (1) wrongful
death and survival action sounding in negligence and negligence per se;
and (2) wrongful death and survival action sounding in negligent hiring/retention/supervision/training.
The complaint arises from Defendant Vinodbhai allegedly striking decedent
Huey Paul Randle with a motor vehicle while intoxicated.  
On
May 8, 2023, the Bhagat Defendants filed an Answer to the complaint.[1]

On
September 11, 2023, Plaintiffs filed the operative First Amended Complaint
(“FAC”) against Defendants Vinodbhai C. Bhagat, Ramesh Bhagat, Hansa Bhagat,
Ankur Patel, Krina Vinodbhai Bhagat, Akash Patel, Jignesh Patel, Town Motel,
LP, Bhagat Investments Century, LLC and Does 1 to 50, alleging causes of action
for: (1) wrongful death and survival action sounding in negligence and
negligence per se; and (2) wrongful death and survival action sounding
in negligent hiring/retention/supervision/training.
The Instant Motions
On October 6, 2023, the Bhagat
Defendants filed a demurrer to the entire FAC or, in the alternative, a motion
for judgment on the pleadings (the “Bhagat Demurrer”).[2]
The Bhagat Defendants also filed a motion to strike portions of the FAC (“the
“Bhagat Motion to Strike”).[3]
On October 13, 2023, Defendant
Vinodbhai filed a motion to strike portions of the FAC (the “Vinodbhai Motion
to Strike”).[4]
Plaintiff filed an opposition to the
respective motions. The Bhagat Defendants filed a reply brief as to their
demurrer and motion to strike. Defendant Vinodbhai filed a reply brief as to
his motion to strike. 
The Court will address the respective
motions filed by the parties in this one ruling. 
The Meet and Confer Requirement
          The meet and
confer requirement has been met as to the Bhagat Demurrer and the Bhagat Motion
to Strike pursuant to Code Civ. Proc. §§ 430.41 and 435.5. The meet and confer
requirement has been met as to the Vinodbhai Motion to Strike pursuant to Code
Civ. Proc. § 435.5. 
II.         
LEGAL
STANDARD
A demurrer tests the sufficiency of a
complaint as a matter of law.  (Durell
v. Sharp Healthcare (2010) 183 Cal.App.4th 1350, 1358.) The court gives the
complaint a reasonable interpretation, and treats the demurrer as admitting all
material facts properly pleaded.  (Ibid.)  A demurrer accepts as true all well pleaded
facts and those facts of which the court can take judicial notice but not
deductions, contentions, or conclusions of law or fact. (Fox v. JAMDAT
Mobile, Inc. (2010) 185 Cal.App.4th 1068, 1078.) A general demurrer may be
taken to a complaint where “[t]he pleading does not state facts sufficient to
constitute a cause of action.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 430.10(e).) A defendant may
demur to a complaint where the pleading is uncertain, which means the pleading
is ambiguous and unintelligible. (Code Civ. Proc. § 430.10(f).) Although Courts
construe pleadings liberally, sufficient facts must be alleged to support the
allegations plead to survive a demurrer. (Rakestraw v. California
Physicians' Serv. (2000) 81 Cal.App.4th 39, 43.)  The standard for granting a motion for
judgment on the pleadings is essentially the same as that applicable to a
general demurrer. (Schabarum v. California Legislature (1998) 60
Cal.App.4th 1205, 1216.) 
Where a demurrer is sustained, leave to
amend must be allowed where there is a reasonable possibility of successful
amendment. (Goodman v. Kennedy (1976) 18 Cal.3d 335, 348.) The burden is
on the plaintiff to show the court that a pleading can be amended successfully.
(Id.) If there is any reasonable possibility that the plaintiff can
state a good cause of action, it is error to sustain a demurrer without leave
to amend. (Youngman v. Nevada Irrigation Dist. (1969) 70 Cal.2d 240,
245).  
III.       
THE
BHAGAT DEMURRER 
The Bhagat Defendants demur to the
first and second causes of action in the FAC on the grounds that: (1) the FAC
fails to state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action against the
Bhagat Defendants; and (2) the entire FAC is too uncertain, vague, and
ambiguous to constitute a cause of action against the Bhagat Defendants. 
In opposition to the demurrer of the
Bhagat Defendants, Plaintiff contends that the Bhagat Defendants waived their
right to bring a special demurrer or motion to strike punitive damages.[5]
Plaintiff also asserts that all challenged causes of action state facts
sufficient to constitute a cause of action. 
Issue No.1: Timeliness of the Demurrer of the Bhagat
Defendants 
          Plaintiff
contends that the Bhagat Defendants had no issues or concerns of uncertainty or
ambiguity when answering the initial complaint. Plaintiff asserts that the
Bhagat Defendants have therefore waived the right to challenge the FAC via a
special demurrer for uncertainty. 
          Code Civ.
Proc. § 430.80(a) provides that “[i]f the party against whom a complaint . . .
has been filed fails to object to the pleading . . . by demurrer . . . that
party is deemed to have waived the objection unless it is . . . an objection
that the pleading does not state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of
action.” A court has discretion to consider a late-filed demurrer. (McAllister
v. County of Monterey (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 253, 282.) The trial court can
consider a late-filed demurrer “so long as its action does not affect the substantial
rights of the parties.” (Ibid.) A special demurrer is a demurrer that is
brought on the grounds that a pleading is ambiguous, unintelligible, or
uncertain. (Coons v. Thompson (1946) 75 Cal.App.2d 687, 690.) 
          The Court
agrees that by failing to file a special demurrer to the complaint, the Bhagat
Defendants have waived their right to bring a special demurrer for uncertainty
pursuant to Code Civ. Proc. § 430.80(a). 
The Bhagat Defendants, however, did not
waive their right to bring a general demurrer for failure to state facts
sufficient to constitute a cause of action. The Court therefore will consider
the general demurrer of the Bhagat Defendants but not the special demurrer of
the Bhagat Defendants. Thus, the Court’s analysis below will assess whether the
FAC states sufficient facts to constitute a cause of action against the Bhagat
Defendants.[6]
Issue No.2: First Cause of Action
          Whether a
defendant owes a duty of care is a question of law. (Aguirre-Alvarez v.
Regents of University of California (1998) 67 Cal.App.4th 1058, 1063.) To
succeed in a negligence action, a plaintiff must show that (1) the defendant
owed the plaintiff a legal duty, (2) the defendant breached the duty, and (3)
the breach proximately or legally caused (4) the plaintiff’s damages of
injuries. (Thomas v. Stenberg (2012) 206 Cal.App.4th 654, 662.) Whether
a duty is owed is a question of law. (Ibid.) A person ordinarily is
obligated to exercise due care in his or her own actions so as not to create an
unreasonable risk of injury to others, and this legal duty generally is owed to
the class of persons who it is reasonably foreseeable may be injured as a
result of the actor’s conduct. (Ibid.) There is no duty, however, to act
to protect others from the conduct of third parties. (Delgado v. Trax Bar
& Grill (2005) 36 Cal.4th 224, 235.)  
          The FAC
alleges that Defendant Vinodbhai operated the 2014 Toyota Sienna (the “Subject
Vehicle”) that struck decedent Huey Paul Randle. (FAC, ¶¶ 18-19.) All
defendants are alleged to have owned the Subject Vehicle. (Id., ¶ 20.) The
FAC alleges that all Defendants—but most particularly Defendant Vinodbhai—were
intoxicated, inattentive, and reckless which caused the Subject Vehicle to
strike decedent. (Id., ¶ 21.) The FAC alleges that all Defendants—but
most particularly Defendant Vinodbhai—fled the scene without rendering
assistance to decedent causing him to die. (Id.) According to the FAC,
Defendants were under a duty to exercise reasonable care for the safety of
decedent in owning, maintaining, inspecting, entrusting, delegating, managing
and operating the Subject Vehicle. (Id., ¶ 24.) The FAC alleges breach,
causation, and damages. (Id., ¶¶ 25, 27-31.) Defendants are alleged to have
breached their duty “through their negligent, reckless and unlawful conduct in
regard to the ownership, leasing, entrustment, delegation, management, and
operation of the [Subject] Vehicle.” (Id., ¶ 25.) 
          The Court
finds that Plaintiffs have stated a sufficient cause of action for negligence.
The Court finds that the contention of the Bhagat Defendants that the FAC fails
to identify any identifiable breach of Defendants is unpersuasive. The FAC
clearly sets forth all elements necessary to state a cause of action for
negligence. Plaintiffs have alleged the elements of duty, breach, causation,
and damages as to Defendants collectively. (Id., ¶¶ 25, 27-31.) 
          Therefore, the
demurrer of the Bhagat Defendants to the first cause of action in the FAC is
OVERRULED. 
Issue No.3: Second Cause of Action
          An employer
may be found liable for its employee’s torts as long as the proximate cause of
the injury occurred within the scope of employment. (Purton v. Marriott
International, Inc. (2013) 218 Cal.App.4th 499, 508.) An employer can be
held liable for negligent hiring if he knows the employee is unfit, or has
reason to believe the employee is unfit or fails to use reasonable care to
discover the employee’s unfitness before hiring him. (Juarez v. Boy Scouts
of America, Inc. (2000) 81 Cal.App.4th 377, 395.) There can be no liability
for negligent supervision in the absence of knowledge by the principal that the
agent or servant was a person who could not be trusted to act properly without
being supervised. (Ibid.) Liability for negligent hiring, retention, and
supervision requires a connection between the employment and injured party. (Mendoza
v. City of Los Angeles (1998) 66 Cal.App.4th 1333, 1341.) Liability for
negligent hiring, supervision, or retention requires that the employer knew or
should have known that hiring the employee created a particular risk or hazard
and that particular harm materializes. (Doe v. Capital Cities (1996) 50
Cal.App.4th 1038, 1054.) 
          The Court
finds that Plaintiffs have not stated a valid cause of action for negligent hiring/retention/supervision/training.
Plaintiffs have failed to allege that Defendant Town Motel, LP, Bhagat
Investments Century, LLC, Ramesh Bhagat, or Jignesh Patel knew that hiring
Defendant Vinodbhai would create a risk or hazard that he would drive a while
intoxicated and that he would strike a pedestrian. (FAC, ¶¶ 33-42.) 
          Therefore,
the Court SUSTAINS the demurrer of the Bhagat Defendants to the second cause of
action in the FAC with 20 days leave to amend. 
IV.    BHAGAT MOTION
TO STRIKE
          “Any party,
within the time allowed to respond to a pleading may serve and file a notice of
motion to strike the whole or any part thereof.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 435(b)(1).)
A court may “[s]trike out any irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted in
any pleading.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 436(a).) 
A court may “[s]trike out all or any part of any pleading not drawn or
filed in conformity with the laws of this state, a court rule, or an order of
the court.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 436(b).) 
Issue No.1: Punitive Damages
          The Bhagat
Defendants seek to strike punitive damages allegations from the FAC and prayer
for relief therein. 
          “In order to
survive a motion to strike an allegation of punitive damages, the ultimate
facts showing an entitlement to such relief must be pled by a plaintiff.”  (Clauson v. Superior Court (1998) 67
Cal.App.4th 1253, 1255.)  California Civil
Code, Section 3294 authorizes punitive damages upon a showing of malice,
fraud, or oppression.  Malice is defined
as either “conduct which is intended by the defendant to cause injury to the
plaintiff,” or “despicable conduct which is carried on by the defendant with a
willful and conscious disregard of the rights or safety of others.”  (Civil Code § 3294(c)(1).)  “Despicable conduct is conduct which is so
vile, base, contemptible, miserable, wretched or loathsome that it would be
looked down upon and despised by ordinary decent people.”  (Mock v. Michigan Millers Mutual Ins. Co.
(1992) 4 Cal. App. 4th 306, 331.)  Fraud
under California Civil Code, Section 3294(c)(3) “means an intentional
misrepresentation, deceit, or concealment of a material fact known to the
defendant with the intention on the part of the defendant of thereby depriving
a person of property or legal rights or otherwise causing injury.”  California Civil Code, Section 3294(2)
defines oppression as “despicable conduct that subjects a person to cruel and
unjust hardship in conscious disregard of that person’s rights.”  Specific facts must be pled in support of
punitive damages.  (Hillard v. A.H.
Robins Co. (1983) 148 Cal.App.3d 374, 391-392.)  Facts must be pled to show that a defendant
“act[ed] with the intent to vex, injure or annoy, or with a conscious disregard
of the plaintiff’s rights.”  (Silberg
v. California Life Ins. Co. (1974) 11 Cal.3d 452, 462.)  Conduct that is merely negligent will not
support a claim for punitive damages.  (Tomaselli
v. Transamerica Ins. Co. (1994) 25 Cal.App.4th 1269, 1288.) 
to the FAC
          An employer
will not be liable for punitive damages based upon the acts of an employee of
the employer, unless: (1) the employer had advance knowledge of the unfitness
of the employee and employed him or her with a conscious disregard of the
rights or safety of others; or (2) the employer ratified the wrongful conduct
for which the damages are awarded or was personally guilty of oppression,
fraud, or malice. (Civ. Code § 3294(b).) As to a corporate employer, the
advance knowledge and conscious disregard, authorization, ratification or act
of oppression, fraud, or malice must be on the part of an officer, director, or
managing agent of a corporation.  (Id.)

A managing agent is someone who
exercises substantial discretionary authority over decisions that ultimately
determine corporate policy. (White v. Ultramar, Inc. (1999) 21 Cal.4th
563, 573.) A supervisory employee with hiring and firing power may qualify as a
managing agent. (Id. at p. 580.) A managing agent is a person whose
decisions affect a substantial portion of the company and that are the type
likely to come to the attention of corporate leadership. (Roby v. McKesson
Corp. (2009) 47 Cal.4th 686, 715.) 
The inquiry in determining whether an employee is a managing agent does
not necessarily hinge on their level in the corporate hierarchy.  (Kelly-Zurian v. Wohl Shoe Co. (1994)
22 Cal.App.4th 397, 421.) The critical inquiry is the degree of discretion the
employees possess in making decisions that will ultimately determine corporate
policy. (Id.)  
Analysis 
The Court finds that Plaintiffs have
not alleged sufficient facts showing malice, fraud, or oppression to warrant
the imposition of punitive damages against the Bhagat Defendants. The FAC is
rooted in negligence, and negligent conduct will not support a claim for
punitive damages under Tomaselli v. Transamerica Ins. Co., supra,
25 Cal.App.4th 1269, 1288. Moreover, the FAC only makes conclusory allegations
as to punitive damages and does not set forth specific facts. (FAC, ¶¶ 23, 31,42.)
Moreover, the FAC does not allege any oppression, fraud, or malice on the part
of corporate defendants Town Motel, L.P. and Bhagat Investments Century, LLC by
an officer, director, or managing agent. 
The Bhagat Motion to Strike is GRANTED
with 20 days leave to amend. 
V.      VINODBHAI
MOTION TO STRIKE
          Defendant
Vinodbhai seeks to strike punitive damages allegations from the FAC and prayer
for relief therein, as well as Plaintiffs’ request for attorneys’ fees from the
prayer for relief. 
          Request to
Strike Attorneys’ Fees 
Initially, the Court finds that the
request to strike attorneys’ fees from the prayer for relief is procedurally
improper as it was not set forth in the notice of motion. A notice of motion to
strike must quote in full the portions to be stricken except where the motion
is to strike an entire paragraph, cause of action, count or defense. (Cal.
Rules of Court, Rule 3.1322(a).) The Court therefore DENIES Defendant Vinodbhai’s
request to strike attorneys’ fees from the FAC due to his non-compliance with
Cal. Rules of Court, Rule 3.1322. 
Punitive Damages Analysis 
          The Court
references its recitation of the FAC’s allegations, as well as the legal
standard as to a motion to strike from above, and incorporates it herein. 
          The Court
finds that Plaintiffs have not alleged sufficient facts showing malice, fraud,
or oppression to warrant the imposition of punitive damages against Defendant
Vinodbhai. The FAC is rooted in negligence, and negligent conduct will not
support a claim for punitive damages under Tomaselli v. Transamerica Ins.
Co., supra, 25 Cal.App.4th 1269, 1288. Moreover, the FAC only makes
conclusory allegations as to punitive damages and does not set forth specific
facts. (FAC, ¶¶ 23, 31.) 
          The Court therefore GRANTS IN PART the Vinodbhai Motion to
Strike. The Court DENIES the request of Defendant Vinodbhai to strike
attorneys’ fees from the prayer for relief in the FAC. The Court GRANTS the
request of Defendant Vinodbhai to strike punitive damages allegations from the
FAC with 20 days leave to amend. 
 
VI.     CONCLUSION
The Court OVERRULES the demurrer of the
Bhagat Defendants to the first cause of action in the FAC.
The Court SUSTAINS the demurrer of the
Bhagat Defendants to the second cause of action in the FAC with 20 days leave
to amend. 
The Bhagat Motion to Strike is GRANTED
with 20 days leave to amend.
 The
Court GRANTS IN PART the Vinodbhai Motion to Strike. The Court DENIES the
request of Defendant Vinodbhai to strike attorneys’ fees from the prayer for
relief in the FAC. The Court GRANTS the request of Defendant Vinodbhai to
strike punitive damages allegations from the FAC with 20 days leave to amend.
The Bhagat Defendants are ordered to
give notice of this ruling in its entirety to all interested parties.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at SSCDEPT27@lacourt.org indicating
intention to submit on the tentative as directed by the instructions provided
on the court website at www.lacourt.org. 
Please be advised that if you submit on the tentative and elect not to
appear at the hearing, the opposing party may nevertheless appear at the
hearing and argue the matter.  Unless you
receive a submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume
that others might appear at the hearing to argue.  If the Court does not receive emails from the
parties indicating submission on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may, at its discretion, adopt the
tentative as the final order or place the motion off calendar.
        Dated this 8th day of November 2023
 




 


 




 


Hon.
  Lee S. Arian 
Judge of the Superior Court
 




 


