  Case Number:  20STCV11485    Hearing Date:   November 8, 2023    Dept:  27  
 
 
SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL
DISTRICT
 



KELLY DUANGRUDEESWAT, 
                   Plaintiff,
          vs.
 
LONG
  BEACH TRANSIT, et al.,
 
                   Defendants.


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


      CASE NO.: 20stcv11485
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: DEFENDANT’S MOTION TO CONTINUE ALL TRIAL RELATED DATES
 
Dept.
  27
1:30
  p.m.
November
  8, 2023



 
          
BACKGROUND
On March 23, 2020, Plaintiff Kelly
Duangrudeeswat (“Plaintiff”) filed this action against Defendants Long Beach
Public Transportation Company (“LBPTC”) (erroneously sued as “Long Beach
Transit”) and Rodney Jones (together “Defendants”) for injuries arising from an
automobile accident that occurred on October 7, 2019. 
          On October
10, 2023, the Court continued trial to August 30, 2024 in order for LBPTC’s
summary judgment motion to be heard before trial. However, the Court declined
to extend related discovery and pretrial dates because Defendants failed to put
forth grounds to continue those dates. As of the filing of this motion, discovery
cut-off dates and all pretrial deadlines including discovery, expert, and
motion cut-off dates remain set to the previous trial date, December 7, 2023.
On October 13, 2023, Defendants filed
the instant motion to continue all trial related dates, including pretrial
deadlines and discovery and motion cutoffs, to correspond to the new trial date.
On October 23, 2023, Plaintiff filed an opposition. On November 1, 2023,
Defendants filed a reply. 
DISCUSSION
Based on the previous December 7, 2023
trial date, the applicable pretrial cut-offs are as follows: (1) Fact Discovery
- November 7, 2023, (2) Fact Discovery Motions - November 22, 2023, (3) Expert
Discovery - November 22, 2023, and (4) Expert Discovery Motions - November 27,
2023. (Sullivan Decl. ¶ 6.)
Defendants contend that good cause
exists to continue trial related dates because Plaintiff is still treating for
her claimed injuries, thus delaying Defendants’ ability to complete necessary
discovery in advance of trial and ostensibly preventing Plaintiff from
providing a settlement demand to allow the parties to pursue a possible
informal resolution of the case. Defendants contend that absent the
continuance, they will be unable to prepare a competent defense, determine
their potential exposure in this matter, or proceed with informed settlement
discussions to potentially obviate the need for trial within the timelines based
on the prior trial date.
Specifically, Plaintiff has continually
postponed completing her deposition that she sat for on May 5, 2023, inhibiting
Defendants’ ability to obtain information necessary to conduct medical and
neurological IMEs. (Sullivan Decl. ¶¶ 8-11.) Defendant contends that Plaintiff
has declined to provide a damages demand because her injuries have prevented her
from assembling a complete picture of her damages in the case. (Sullivan Decl. ¶
10.) As of October 13, 2023, Plaintiff had not provided dates for the
completion of her deposition. (Sullivan Decl. ¶ 12.) Defendants contend that
they have been diligently pursuing and participating in the discovery process. (Sullivan
Decl. ¶ 14.) Furthermore,
Defendants contend that absent the completion of Plaintiff’s deposition and any
necessary IMEs, Defendants cannot retain appropriate experts or provide them
sufficient information to form opinions and evaluations of Plaintiff’s claimed
injuries or treatment and care. (Sullivan Decl. ¶ 16.) Defendant contends that Plaintiff
will not be prejudiced by the proposed continuance as Plaintiff has not
completed her own discovery in advance of the current cut-offs, and the
requested continuance will not unnecessarily prolong proceedings, interfere
with the parties’ ability to proceed with trial on the date currently set, or
impose any undue burden or expense. (Sullivan Decl. ¶ 19.)
          In
opposition, Plaintiff contends that good cause does not exist because
Defendants have failed to pursue discovery for the past six months.
Specifically, Plaintiff contends that Defendants have not responded to
Plaintiff’s proposed dates for a second session of her deposition. In June
2023, Plaintiff contacted Defendants to schedule her deposition and on June 27,
2023, Plaintiff offered July 28, 2023 for her deposition; however, Defendants were
silent and never responded. (Ortega Decl. ¶15.) Additionally, Plaintiff contends that Defendants did not
respond to Plaintiff’s timely notice and request for bus inspection. Plaintiff
noticed the inspection in September 2023 and requested confirmation of the
inspection four times; however, Defendants refused to confirm the demand until
Plaintiff made known her intention to file a motion to compel with sanctions.
(Ortega Decl. ¶ 2-4.) Defendants eventually provided one available date for the
inspection that was well after the discovery cutoff date and, by so doing,
agreed this inspection would proceed after discovery has been closed. (Ortega
Decl. ¶ 2-4.) Furthermore, Plaintiff contends that Defendant failed to timely
or fully respond to written discovery requests despite six demands since May
2023, forcing Plaintiff to file two motions to compel, set for hearing November
22, 2023. (Ortega Decl. ¶ 5-6.)
            In
reply, Defendants contend that Plaintiff has failed to provide dates she is
available to complete the deposition, apart from a single date for which
counsel for Defendants was unavailable. Defendants contend that, contrary to
Plaintiff’s statements in opposition, Defendants have been pursuing discovery
over the past six months to the 
extent possible. After the first
session of Plaintiff’s deposition on May 5, 2023, Counsel for Defendants served
subpoenas for Plaintiff’s medical records on Plaintiff’s additional providers,
PT at the Beach and Platinum Orthopedic Specialists. (Ortega
Decl. ¶ 10) (Reply, Sullivan
Decl. ¶ 5.) However, Defendants contend that any IME before Plaintiff provides
a complete picture of her damages would be premature and likely require
additional examinations. Additionally, Defendants contend that Plaintiff
herself served additional discovery on October 18, 2023, to which responses are
due after the discovery cutoff. (Sullivan Decl., Exs. B, C.)
            Under
California Rules of Court, rule 3.1332, subd. (c), the Court may grant a
continuance only on an affirmative showing of good cause requiring the
continuance. Circumstances that may indicate good cause include “a party’s
excused inability to obtain essential testimony, documents, or other material evidence
despite diligent efforts.” The Court should consider all facts and
circumstances relevant to the determination, such as proximity of the trial
date, prior continuances, prejudice suffered, whether all parties have
stipulated to a continuance, and whether the interests of justice are served.
(Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1332, subd. (d).)
            Here,
the Court finds that good cause exists to continue all related pretrial dates
to relate to the current trial date of August 30, 2024. Plaintiff has not demonstrated that she
will be prejudiced by granting this extension while Defendants have
demonstrated that they will be prejudiced if they are not able to complete the
deposition of Plaintiff and conduct necessary IMEs regarding Plaintiff’s injuries
and damages. 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at SSCDEPT27@lacourt.org indicating
intention to submit on the tentative as directed by the instructions provided
on the court website at www.lacourt.org. 
Please be advised that if you submit on the tentative and elect not to
appear at the hearing, the opposing party may nevertheless appear at the
hearing and argue the matter.  Unless you
receive a submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume
that others might appear at the hearing to argue.  If the Court does not receive emails from the
parties indicating submission on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may, at its discretion, adopt the
tentative as the final order or place the motion off calendar.
Dated
this 8th day of November 2023
 




 


 




 


Hon. Lee S. Arian
Judge of the Superior Court
 




 