 Case Number:  21STCV14541    Hearing Date:   November 8, 2023    Dept:  27 SUPERIOR COURT
OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY
OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



ANDRES
  FLORES, 
                   Plaintiff,
          vs.
 
DUGAN
  HOLDINGS, LLC., et al.,
 
                   Defendant(s).


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


      CASE NO.: 21STCV14541
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: THREE MOTIONS TO COMPEL FORM INTERROGATORIES, SPECIAL
  INTERROGATORIES, AND REQUESTS FOR PRODUCTION


 
Dept. 27
1:30 p.m.
November 8,
  2023



 
I.                  
INTRODUCTION
On April 16, 2021, Plaintiff Andres Flores
(“Plaintiff”) filed a complaint against Defendants Dugan Holdings, LLC, John
Higgins, and Does 1 to 100, alleging a cause of action for premises liability.  
On September 6, 2023, Defendant Dugan Holdings,
LLC (“Defendant”) filed three motions to compel Plaintiff’s verified responses
to Form Interrogatories, Set One, Special Interrogatories, Set One, and Request
for Production of Documents, Set One.  
On November 1, 2023, counsel for Plaintiff
represented that new counsel would be taking over the case.  
No opposition or reply has been filed in the
instant motions. 
II.               
LEGAL STANDARD
Where a party fails to serve timely responses
to discovery requests, the court may make an order compelling responses.¿ (Code
Civ. Proc., §§ 2030.290, 2031.300; Healthcare Consulting, Inc. v. Pacific
Healthcare Consultants (2007) 148 Cal.App.4th 390, 403.)¿¿ A party that
fails to serve timely responses waives any objections to the request, including
ones based on privilege or the protection of attorney work product.¿ (Code Civ.
Proc., §§ 2030.290, subd. (a), 2031.300, subd. (a).)¿ Unlike a motion to compel
further responses, a motion to compel responses is not subject to a
45-day time limit and the propounding party has no meet and confer
obligations.¿ (Sinaiko Healthcare Consulting, Inc., supra, 148
Cal.App.4th at p. 404.)¿ 
III.            
DISCUSSION
As a preliminary matter, it is noted that, even
though three separate motions were filed, they are all identical in so far as
they rely on the same legal arguments and exhibits. Thus, for citing purposes,
the Court shall reference just one motion.  
Defendant argues they electronically served
Plaintiff with Form Interrogatories, Set One, Special Interrogatories, Set One,
and Request for Production of Documents, Set One, on June 1, 2023.  (Decl. Shyer, ¶ 3.) Plaintiff’s responses
were due on July 5, 2023.  (Id.)  After receiving no responses, Defendant
emailed Plaintiff on July 25 and August 6 to inquire about the status of the
discovery responses.   (Decl. Shyer, ¶¶
4, 5.)  To date, Defendant argues
Plaintiff has not responded. 
There is no evidence before the Court indicating
that Plaintiff served verified responses to Defendant’s discovery demands. 
Accordingly, the Court GRANTS Defendant’s
motions to compel Plaintiff’s verified responses to Defendant’s Form Interrogatories,
Set One, Special Interrogatories, Set One, and Request for Production of
Documents, Set One.   
IV.            
CONCLUSION
Defendant’s Motions to Compel Responses to Form
Interrogatories, Set One, Special Interrogatories, Set One, and Request for
Production of Documents, Set One are GRANTED. 
Plaintiff Andres Flores is ordered to provide
verified responses without objections.  
Moving party to give notice.
Parties who intend to submit on this tentative
must send an email to the Court at SSCDEPT27@lacourt.org indicating intention
to submit on the tentative as directed by the instructions provided on the
court website at www.lacourt.org.  Please
be advised that if you submit on the tentative and elect not to appear at the
hearing, the opposing party may nevertheless appear at the hearing and argue
the matter.  Unless you receive a
submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume that others
might appear at the hearing to argue.  If
the Court does not receive emails from the parties indicating submission on
this tentative ruling and there are no appearances at the hearing, the Court
may, at its discretion, adopt the tentative as the final order or place the
motion off calendar.
Dated this 8th
day of November 2023
 
 




 


 




 


Hon. Lee S.
  Arian 
Judge of the
  Superior Court
 




 
 
 
 