 Case Number:  22STCV04619    Hearing Date:   November 8, 2023    Dept:  27  
 
 
SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL
DISTRICT
 



TERESITA MAYELA NAVARRO AS GUARDIAN AD LITEM FOR NATALIE
   NAVARRO, STEVE NAVARRO, VALERIA GUADALUPE NAVARRO, ANDREW NAVARRO, 
                   Plaintiff(s),
          vs.
 
RUBEN
   JESUS JARAMILLA, JR. ANDIAMO LOGISTICS, INC., LSA, ELEMENT FLEET
   CORPORATION, GLECO FLEET TRUST, LSR, AMAZON.COM SERVICES LLC, and DOES 1-100,
 
                   Defendant(s).


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


     CASE NO.:  22STCV04619
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: DEFENDANTS ANDIAMO LOGISTICS, INC., ELEMENT FLEET
   CORPORATION, AND RUBEN JESUS JARAMILLA, JR.’S MOTION TO QUASH DEPOSITION
   SUBPOENA 
 
Dept.
  27
1:30
  p.m.

November
   8, 2023



 
I.           
INTRODUCTION
On
February 7, 2022, Plaintiffs Teresita Mayela Navarro, individually and as
Guardian ad Litem for Natalie Navarro, a minor, Steve Navarro, Valeria
Guadalupe Navarro, and Andrew Navarro, filed this wrongful death action against
Defendants Ruben Jesus Jaramilla, Jr. (“Jaramilla”), Andiamo Logistics, Inc.,
LSE (“Andiamo”), Element Fleet Corporation (“EFC”), Gelco Fleet
Trust, LSR (“GFT”), and
Amazon.com Services LLC (“Amazon”). Plaintiff alleges that on September 23,
2021, Jaramilla operated a motor vehicle that collided with a motorcycle
operated by decedent Jose Erubey Navarro Maya (“Maya”), which caused Maya’s
death. Plaintiffs allege that the collision occurred during the course and
scope of his employment and/or partnership with Andiamo and/or Amazon.
Plaintiffs additionally allege that Andiamo, Amazon, EFT, and GFT owned/insured
the vehicle Jaramilla operated at the time of the subject accident. Plaintiffs
filed the operable First Amended Complaint (“FAC”) asserting causes of action
for wrongful death and loss of consortium on March 18, 2022. 
On
June 23, 2023, Plaintiffs served a deposition subpoena for production of records
on United Parcel Service, Inc. (“UPS”) for records pertaining to Jaramilla. On July
21, 2023, Andiamo, EFC, and Jaramilla (hereinafter, “Defendants”) filed this instant
motion to quash Plaintiffs’ deposition subpoenas. On September 19, 2023,
Plaintiffs filed an opposition. On September 27, 2023, Defendants filed a
reply. 
II.         
LEGAL STANDARD
A deposition subpoena may request (1)
only the attendance and testimony of a deponent, (2) only the production of
business records for copying, or (3) the attendance and testimony, as well as
the production of business records. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2020.020.) The court,
upon motion or the court’s own motion, “may make an order quashing the subpoena
entirely, modifying it, or directing compliance with it upon those terms or
conditions as the court shall declare, including protective orders. In
addition, the court may make any other orders as may be appropriate to protect
the person from unreasonable or oppressive demands, including unreasonable
violations of the right of privacy of the person.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 1987.1,
subd. (a).) “A deposition subpoena that commands only the production of
business records for copying shall designate the business records to be
produced either by specifically describing each individual item or by
reasonably particularizing each category of item . . .” (Code Civ. Proc., §2020.410,
subd. (a).
III.       
DISCUSSION
Defendants seek to quash Plaintiffs’
deposition subpoenas on the grounds that the subpoenas are overbroad as to time
and scope, violate Jaramilla’s right to privacy, and seek irrelevant
information. Alternatively, Defendants request to stay enforcement of
Plaintiffs’ subpoena pending the Court’s in camera inspection of the produced
documents, during which Plaintiffs request that the Court determine whether any
of the requested documents are admissible, and, if appropriate, make a
protective order. Defendants seek monetary sanctions against Plaintiffs and
their counsel of record in the amount of $1,635.00.
          In
opposition, Plaintiffs argue that the deposition subpoena is relevant because
it pertains to Jaramilla’s history of driving while employed for UPS, including
his previous collisions. Further, Plaintiffs contend that the information
sought is relevant to whether Amazon, Andiamo and EFC knew or should have known
that Jaramilla was unfit to operate the Amazon truck that killed the decedent.
Plaintiffs dispute that they are seeking medical records from UPS that violate
Jaramilla’s right to privacy but instead seek an employment file of Jaramilla.
Plaintiffs assert that Defendants have not demonstrated the deposition subpoena
violates the privacy rights of third parties. 
          In reply,
Defendants reiterate that the subpoena is overboard by requesting “any and all
documents” including work injury records and incident reports. Defendants
assert that Jaramilla has a reasonable expectation of privacy in his employment
records. Last, and most significantly, Defendants argue that the subpoena
should be quashed or deemed moot since Plaintiffs have withdrawn the subject
subpoenas. 
          Here, the subject deposition subpoena
has been withdrawn. Accordingly, the motion to quash deposition subpoena is
denied as MOOT.  
Sanctions 
The court shall impose a monetary
sanction against any party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or
opposes a motion to quash a deposition notice, unless it finds that the one
subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other
circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.  (Code of Civ. Proc., § 2025.410, subd. (d).) 
          Defendants seek sanctions against
Plaintiffs and their counsel of record in the amount of $1,635.00. Defendants’
counsel charges an hourly billing rate of $175.00 per hour. (Stone Decl. ¶9.)
Counsel claims he spent 4 hours preparing this motion and the Separate
Statement, anticipates he will spend 2 hours to review the opposition and
prepare a reply, 1 hour to appear at the hearing, and incurred a $60.00 filing
fee. (Id.) 
 
Defendants’ counsel’s hourly billing
rate of $175.00 per hour is reasonable. The Court finds that the several
instances of billing were reasonably incurred. Accordingly, the Court awards
sanctions against Plaintiffs and their counsel of record in the total amount of
$1,635.00. 
IV.        
CONCLUSION
Defendants’ motion to quash Plaintiffs’
deposition subpoenas is DENIED as moot.
Monetary sanctions are awarded to Defendants
against Plaintiffs in the amount of $1,635.00.
Moving party to give notice.
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at SSCDEPT27@lacourt.org indicating
intention to submit on the tentative as directed by the instructions provided
on the court website at www.lacourt.org. 
Please be advised that if you submit on the tentative and elect not to
appear at the hearing, the opposing party may nevertheless appear at the
hearing and argue the matter.  Unless you
receive a submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume
that others might appear at the hearing to argue.  If the Court does not receive emails from the
parties indicating submission on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may, at its discretion, adopt the
tentative as the final order or place the motion off calendar.
 
    Dated this 8th day of November
2023 
 




 


 




 


Hon. Lee S. Arian 
Judge of the Superior Court
 




 