 Case Number:  21STCV30384    Hearing Date:   November 8, 2023    Dept:  27  
 
 
SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL
DISTRICT
 



ANNA MARIE ONAINDIA, 
                   Plaintiff,
          vs.
 
CITY
  OF SANTA MONICA, et al.,
 
                   Defendants.


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


      CASE NO.: 21STCV30384
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: DEFENDANT’S MOTION FOR LEAVE TO FILE AN AMENDED ANSWER
 
Dept.
  27
1:30
  p.m.
November
  8, 2023



 
BACKGROUND
On August 17, 2021, Plaintiff Anna
Marie Onaindia (“Plaintiff”) filed this action against Defendants City of Santa
Monica (“Defendant”) and Does 1 through 20 for injuries arising an accident
that occurred on May 30, 2021 wherein Plaintiff, while riding on an electric
scooter, struck a metal signpost base next to a protected bikeway. 
On October 16, 2023, Defendant filed
the instant motion for leave to amend its answer to add the affirmative defense
of trail immunity. On October 26, 2023, Plaintiff filed a notice of
non-opposition. 
DISCUSSION
The Court may, in its discretion and
after notice to the adverse party, allow an amendment to any pleading.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 473, subd. (a)(1).)  A motion to amend a pleading must include a
copy of the proposed amendment or amended pleading which must be serially
numbered to differentiate it from previous pleadings or amendments and must
state what allegations in the previous pleading are proposed to be deleted or
added, if any, and where, by page, paragraph, and line number, the allegations
are located.  (California Rules of Court,
rule 3.1324(a).)  The motion shall also
be accompanied by a declaration attesting to the effect of the amendment, why
the amendment is necessary and proper, when the facts giving rise to the
amended allegations were discovered, and why the request for amendment was not
made earlier.  (California Rules of
Court, rule 3.1324(b).)
Defendant filed its initial answer on
October 14, 2021. Since then, upon further discovery, analysis, and
investigation, Defendant’s counsel determined that Ocean Avenue Protected
Bikeway, the location of the accident, is a trail within the meaning of Government
Code section 831.4, meaning that Defendant believes it can assert the
affirmative defense of trail immunity. 
Defendant has complied with the
procedural requirements of CRC, rule 3.1324. Defendant’s proposed First Amended
Answer is attached as Exhibit A to its moving papers. The Amended Answer does
not delete any allegations and only adds one affirmative defense. Defendant
discovered the grounds for the amended pleadings in September 2023 and
immediately after made the request for leave to amend. (Green Decl. para. 5.)
Furthermore, the request is necessary and proper because Defendant is immune
from liability under Government Code section 831.4. (Green Decl. para. 4.) 
Considering the liberal policy of the
Court in granting leave to amend pleadings to resolve cases on their merits,
and given Plaintiff’s non-opposition, the Court finds that Defendant’s motion
for leave to amend its answer is GRANTED. The Court accepts Defendant’s Amended
Answer, attached to its motion as Exhibit A. 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at SSCDEPT27@lacourt.org indicating
intention to submit on the tentative as directed by the instructions provided
on the court website at www.lacourt.org. 
Please be advised that if you submit on the tentative and elect not to
appear at the hearing, the opposing party may nevertheless appear at the
hearing and argue the matter.  Unless you
receive a submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume
that others might appear at the hearing to argue.  If the Court does not receive emails from the
parties indicating submission on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may, at its discretion, adopt the
tentative as the final order or place the motion off calendar.
Dated
this 8th day of November 2023
 




 


 




 


Hon. Lee S. Arian
Judge of the Superior Court
 




 