 Case Number:  21STCV36175    Hearing Date:   November 8, 2023    Dept:  27  
 
 
SUPERIOR COURT OF
THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF
LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



SANDRA MARTINEZ
  BASURTO,
                        Plaintiff(s),
            vs.
 
BODEGA LATINA CORPORATION dba EL
  SUPER, et al., 
 
                        Defendant(s).


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


   
  CASE NO.: 21STCV36175
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER RE:
MOTION TO COMPEL FURTHER RESPONSES
  TO SPECIAL INTERROGATORIES
 
Dept. 27
1:30 p.m.
November 8, 2023



 
 
 
MOVING PARTY:            Plaintiff
Sandra Martinez Basurto
RESPONDING PARTY:    Defendant
Bodega Latina Corporation dba El Super
 
I.         BACKGROUND
On
October 1, 2021, Plaintiff Sandra Martinez Basurto (“Plaintiff”) filed this
action against Defendants Bodega Latina Corporation dba El Super (“Defendant”)
and Does 1 through 50, inclusive, asserting two causes of action for (1)
negligence and (2) premises liability. 
The
Complaint alleges that on or about March 14, 2020, Plaintiff was a lawful
invitee at Defendant’s store at 315 San Fernando Mission Blvd., San Fernando,
CA 91340 (the “Premises”), when she slipped and fell on a tomato, severely
injuring herself. (Compl., ¶¶ 5, 7.)
On
July 7, 2023, Plaintiff filed the instant motion to compel Defendant’s further
responses to her Special Interrogatories, Set One. 
On
October 26, 2023, Defendant filed its opposition. 
On
November 1, 2023, Plaintiff filed her reply. 
II.        LEGAL STANDARD
The following rules apply to responses
to interrogatories. 
“(a)
Each answer in a response to interrogatories shall be as complete and
straightforward as the information reasonably available to the responding party
permits.
(b)
If an interrogatory cannot be answered completely, it shall be answered to the
extent possible.
(c)
If the responding party does not have personal knowledge sufficient to respond
fully to an interrogatory, that party shall so state, but shall make a
reasonable and good faith effort to obtain the information by inquiry to other
natural persons or organizations, except where the information is equally
available to the propounding party.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.220.) 
In addition, “[i]f an objection is made
to an interrogatory or to a part of an interrogatory, the specific ground for
the objection shall be set forth clearly in the response.” (Code Civ. Proc., §
2030.240, subd. (b).)
“On receipt of a response to
interrogatories, the propounding party may move for an order compelling a
further response if the propounding party deems that any of the following
apply: ¶ (1) An answer to a particular interrogatory is evasive or incomplete.
¶ (2) An exercise of the option to produce documents under Section 2030.230 is
unwarranted or the required specification of those documents is inadequate. ¶
(3) An objection to an interrogatory is without merit or too general.” (Code
Civ. Proc., § 2030.300, subd. (a).)  
Similarly, “[o]n receipt of a response
to a demand for inspection, copying, testing, or sampling, the demanding party
may move for an order compelling further response to the demand if the
demanding party deems that any of the following apply: ¶ (1) A statement of
compliance with the demand is incomplete. ¶ (2) A representation of inability
to comply is inadequate, incomplete, or evasive. ¶ (3) An objection in the
response is without merit or too general.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.310, subd.
(a).) “The motion shall set forth specific facts showing good cause justifying
the discovery sought by the demand.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.310, subd.
(b)(1).)  
Motions to compel further responses to
interrogatories must be brought within 45 days of service of a verified
response, supplemental verified response, or on a date to which the propounding
and responding parties have agreed to in writing; otherwise, the propounding
party waives the right to compel further responses. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.300,
subd. (c).)
“The court shall impose a monetary
sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010) against any party,
person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel a
further response to interrogatories, unless it finds that the one subject to
the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other circumstances
make the imposition of the sanction unjust.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.300,
subd. (d).)
“If a party then fails to obey an order
compelling further response to interrogatories, the court may make those orders
that are just, including the imposition of an issue sanction, an evidence
sanction, or a terminating sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with Section
2023.010). In lieu of, or in addition to, that sanction, the court may impose a
monetary sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010).” (Code
Civ. Proc., § 2030.300, subd. (e).)
III.      DISCUSSION
To
understand Plaintiff’s motion, it is helpful to review the relevant procedural
background. 
On
April 25, 2022, Plaintiff filed a motion to compel further responses to 
“Plaintiff’s Special Interrogatories to Defendant, Set One” (“SROG”), among
other discovery. (Motion, filed April 25, 2022, declaration of Svetlana
Liberman, ¶ 3; Exhibit A – copy of the SROGs; Evid. Code, § 452, subd. (d)
[providing that a court may take judicial notice of court records].)
On
January 25, 2023, the Court held a hearing on the SROG motion, but continued it
to February 21, 2023, ordering the parties to meet, confer, and determine which
interrogatories were still at issue before the next hearing. (Minute Order
dated January 25, 2023, pp. 2-3.) The hearing was subsequently continued to
April 13, 2023. 
On
April 13, 2023, the Court granted Plaintiff’s request to compel Defendant’s
further responses to SROG Nos. 20, 21, 26, 31, and 32 (the “April 13 Order”). (April
13 Order, p. 13, Conclusion section.) The Court imposed sanctions of $1,560 against
Defendant and its counsel of record, jointly and severally, for failing to
provide further responses to the SROGs and other discovery. (April 13 Order,
pp. 12-13, beginning on the last paragraph of Page 12.) The Court ordered
Defendant to pay the sanctions and provide further responses to the SROGs within
20 days of the April 13 Order (i.e., by May 11, 2023). (April 13 Order, p. 13.)
Plaintiff
now moves to compel Defendant’s further responses to SROG Nos. 21, 26, 31, and
32, arguing that Defendant has still failed to produce code compliant
responses. Plaintiff’s counsel attests to the following facts in support of the
motion. On May 26, 2023, Defendant served a late, improper, and incomplete
third set of its further responses to the SROGS. (Motion, declaration of Svetlana
Liberman (“Liberman Decl.”), ¶ 4; Exhibit B – a copy of the third set of
further responses to the SROGs.) The third set was verified at the time of
service. (See Motion, Liberman Decl., Exhibit B, p. 2, verification
provided by Adrian Rios.) On June 28, 2023, Plaintiff’s counsel sent defense
counsel a meet and confer letter, seeking to resolve the dispute concerning
Defendant’s incomplete responses. (Liberman Decl., ¶ 5; Exhibit C – a copy of
the letter.) Defense counsel responded the same day, stating that she would respond
to the meet and confer letter, but she never did. (Liberman Decl., ¶¶ 6-7.) 
The
SROGs at issue asked Defendant the following:
·        
SROG
No. 21: State all facts that support a contention that Plaintiff was not
injured as a result of the INCIDENT.
·        
SROG
No. 26: If YOU contend that the Plaintiff’s conduct contributed to the
causation of the INCIDENT that forms the basis of this litigation, state all
facts that support this contention.
·        
SROG
No. 31: If YOU contend that any of the medical bills incurred by Plaintiff in
connection with the injuries she suffered as a result of the INCIDENT that
forms the basis of this litigation, are unreasonable state all facts that
support this contention.
·        
SROG
No. 32: IDENTIFY all WRITINGS that support YOUR contention that the medical
bills incurred by Plaintiff in connection with the injuries she suffered as a
result of the INCIDENT that forms the basis of this litigation, are
unreasonable.
In
opposition, Defendant argues the motion “will be moot” because it has agreed to
serve further responses to the SROGs at issue. In support of the opposition, defense
counsel attests to the following facts. On October 13, 2023, the parties
attended an Informal Discovery Conference (“IDC”) before Hon. Kerry Bensinger.
(Opposition, declaration of Tiffany Schneider (“Schneider Decl.”), ¶ 3.)
Defense counsel agreed to provide further responses as recommended by the
Court. (Schneider Decl., ¶ 3.) Counsel requested the Court to allow a brief
continuance to allow Defendant, a fairly large corporation, to review proposed
responses to the SROGs and provide signed verifications. (Schneider Decl., ¶
3.) “The Court appeared inclined to grant this request, but refused upon
plaintiff’s counsel’s objection.” (Schneider Decl., ¶ 3.) “As promised,
proposed further responses were drafted according to the court’s
recommendations at the IDC and are Code-compliant. It is not [defense
counsel’s] practice to serve unverified responses.” (Schneider Decl., ¶ 4.)
“Upon receipt of the verifications and confirmation of the accuracy of
responses, [her] office will serve the further responses on plaintiff.”
(Schneider Decl., ¶ 4; Exhibit A – a copy of the proposed fourth set of further
responses to the SROGs.)
In
reply, Plaintiff essentially argues (among other things) that the instant
motion is not moot because Defendant only agreed to provide further responses
because of the instant motion. Therefore, Plaintiff argues, the Court should
still impose sanctions on the Defendant. 
As
an initial matter, the Court finds the instant motion timely as it was made (on
July 7, 2023) within 45 days of service of Defendant’s third set of further
responses to the SROGS (on May 26, 2023). (See Code
Civ. Proc., § 2030.300, subd. (c) [requiring a motion to compel further
interrogatories to be made within 45 days of service of verified supplemental
responses; otherwise, the propounding waives the right to compel further
responses].) 
The Court also finds that Plaintiff has
satisfied the meet and confer and separate statement requirements. (See Code
Civ. Proc., § 2030.300, subd. (b)(1) [requiring the instant motion to be
accompanied by a meet and confer declaration]; Liberman Decl., ¶¶ 5, 6
[testifying that the parties met and conferred]; Cal.
Rules of Court, rule 3.1345(a)(2) [requiring motions to compel further
responses to requests for interrogatories to be accompanied by a separate
statement]; Separate Statement, filed July 7, 2023 [outlining the
interrogatories at issue, Defendant’s responses, and Plaintiff’s reasons for
moving to compel further responses].)
Defendant’s proposed responses are
insufficient to make the instant motion moot because “[u]nsworn responses are
tantamount to no responses at all.” (Appleton v. Superior Court (1988)
206 Cal. App. 3d 632, 636 [discussing unverified discovery responses].) 
Therefore,
since Defendant argues it can provide (and has drafted a proposed, albeit
unverified) further responses to the interrogatories, the Court finds it proper
to grant Plaintiff’s request to compel those further responses. 
Accordingly,
the request to compel further responses to SROGs Nos. 21, 26, 31, and 32 is
granted. 
The
imposition of sanctions is also proper due to the Defendant’s failure to
provide code-compliant and/or verified responses despite being given multiple
opportunities to do so. 
Plaintiff
seeks sanctions of $2,160 against Defendant. The requested sanctions consist of
4 hours Plaintiff’s counsel spent preparing the instant motion, 2 hours counsel
anticipated spending reviewing the opposition and drafting a reply, a total of
6 hours at counsel’s billing rate of $350 per hour (equals $2,100), plus a $60
filing fee. (Liberman Decl., ¶ 7.)  Accordingly, the Court orders Defendant and Defendant’s
counsel to pay $2,160 in sanctions. 
IV.      CONCLUSION
          Plaintiff
Sandra Martinez Basurto’s Motion to Compel Further Responses to Special
Interrogatories
is GRANTED as follows. 
          The request to
compel further responses to Plaintiff’s Special Interrogatories to Defendant Bodega Latina Corporation dba El Super, Set One, Nos.
21, 26, 31, and 32 is GRANTED. Defendant is ordered to serve verified, further,
code-compliant responses to those interrogatories within 20 days of this
ruling. 
          The request to impose sanctions is
GRANTED against Defendant Bodega Latina
Corporation dba El Super only. Defendant is ordered to pay Plaintiff sanctions
of $2,160 within 20 days of this ruling. 
Moving
party to give notice.  
            Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at SSCDEPT27@lacourt.org indicating intention to submit
on the tentative as directed by the instructions provided on the court’s
website at www.lacourt.org.  Please be
advised that if you submit on the tentative and elect not to appear at the
hearing, the opposing party may nevertheless appear at the hearing and argue
the matter.  Unless you receive a
submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume that others
might appear at the hearing to argue.  If
the Court does not receive emails from the parties indicating submission on
this tentative ruling and there are no appearances at the hearing, the Court
may, at its discretion, adopt the tentative as the final order or place the
motion off calendar.
        Dated this 8th day of November 2023
 
 




 


 




 


Hon. Lee S.
  Arian
Judge of the
  Superior Court




 