 Case Number:  21STCV11513    Hearing Date:   November 8, 2023    Dept:  27  
 
 
SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL
DISTRICT
 



ALONZO WARD, 
                   Plaintiff,
          vs.
 
PLURIA
  MARSHALL, et al.,
 
                   Defendants.


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


      CASE NO.: 21STCV11513
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: DEFENDANT’S MOTION FOR LEAVE TO FILE AN AMENDED ANSWER
 
Dept.
  27
1:30
  p.m.
November
  8, 2023



 
BACKGROUND
On March 25, 2021, Plaintiff Markus
Derrell Smith (“Plaintiff”) filed this action against Defendants Pluria William
Marshall, III (“Defendant”), Wave Community Newspapers, Inc., Anthony Garland,
Markus Smith, and Does 1 through 50.
On September 19, 2023, Defendant filed
the instant motion to consolidate this case with Markus Derrell Smith v.
Pluria William Marshall et. al,
Case No. 21STCV07846, filed on February 26, 2021, in Los Angeles County
Superior Court (general jurisdiction), assigned to Judge Lee S. Arian of
Department 27. This motion is unopposed. 
Defendant simultaneously moved in 21STCV07846
to consolidate that case with the instant one. That motion is set for hearing
on November 28, 2023. 
LEGAL STANDARD
California Rules of Court, rule 3.350, subdivision
(a) states in relevant part: 
(1) A
notice of motion to consolidate must: 
(A)
List all named parties in each case, the names of those who have appeared, and
the names of their respective attorneys of record; 
(B)
Contain the captions of all the cases sought to be consolidated, with the
lowest-numbered case shown first; and 
(C)
Be filed in each case sought to be consolidated. 
(2)
The motion to consolidate: 
(A)
Is deemed a single motion for the purpose of determining the appropriate filing
fee, but memorandums, declarations, and other supporting papers must be filed
only in the lowest-numbered case; 
(B)
Must be served on all attorneys of record and all non-represented parties in all of the cases sought to be
consolidated; and 
(C)
Must have a proof of service filed as part of the motion. 
(Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.350, subd. (a)).
Also, the consolidation statute, Code of Civil Procedure section 1048, states
in relevant part: 
(a) 
When actions involving a common question of law or fact are pending before the
court, it may order a joint hearing or trial of any or all the matters in issue
in the actions; it may order all the actions consolidated and it may make such
orders concerning proceedings therein as may tend to avoid unnecessary costs or
delay. 
(b) 
The court, in furtherance of convenience or to avoid prejudice, or when
separate trials will be conducive to expedition and economy, may order a
separate trial of any cause of action, including a cause of action asserted in
a cross-complaint, or of any separate issue or of any number of causes of
action or issues, preserving the right of trial by jury required by the
Constitution or a statute of this state or of the United States. 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 1048, subd. (a).)  
The granting or denial of the motion to
consolidate rests in the sound discretion of the trial court and will not be
reversed except upon a clear showing of abuse of discretion. (See Fellner v.
Steinbaum (1955) 132 Cal.App.2d 509, 511.)  
 
DISCUSSION
Defendant moves to consolidate the
instant action with Case No. 21STCV07846 on the grounds that there are common
issues of law and fact pending before the Court and that the interests of
justice require that the cases be consolidated and tried together. Both matters
concern a four-vehicle accident that occurred on April 4, 2018, involving
vehicles driven by (1) Pluria Marshall III, (2) Markus Derrell Smith, (3)
Anthony James Garland, and (4) Eric Burt. Both cases seek damages for motor
vehicle negligence. Thus, there are common questions of law and fact between
the cases. Additionally, Defendant has served all the parties to each action.
Therefore, the Court finds the consolidation of the two cases is proper and in
the interest of judicial economy. The Court is inclined to GRANT this Motion. 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at SSCDEPT27@lacourt.org indicating
intention to submit on the tentative as directed by the instructions provided
on the court website at www.lacourt.org. 
Please be advised that if you submit on the tentative and elect not to
appear at the hearing, the opposing party may nevertheless appear at the
hearing and argue the matter.  Unless you
receive a submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume
that others might appear at the hearing to argue.  If the Court does not receive emails from the
parties indicating submission on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may, at its discretion, adopt the
tentative as the final order or place the motion off calendar.
Dated
this 8th day of November 2023
 




 


 




 


Hon. Lee S. Arian
Judge of the Superior Court
 




 