 Case Number:  23BBCV01647    Hearing Date:   February 2, 2024    Dept:  A LOS
ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT
NORTH
CENTRAL DISTRICT - BURBANK
DEPARTMENT
A
 

TENTATIVE
RULING
FEBRUARY 2,
2024

DEMURRER
& MOTION TO STRIKE

Los Angeles Superior Court
Case # 23BBCV01647

 
MP:     Burlington
Beverly LLC, Olive Apartments LLC, and Drake Real Estate Group, Inc. (Defendants)
RP:     Linda
Granero and Emily Aceves (Plaintiffs)
 
NOTICE:
 
The Court is not requesting oral argument on
this matter.  Pursuant to California Rules of Court, Rule 3.1308(a)(1)
notice of intent to appear is required.  Unless the Court directs argument
in the Tentative Ruling, no argument will be permitted unless a “party notifies
all other parties and the court by 4:00 p.m. on the court day before the
hearing of the party’s intention to appear and argue.  The tentative
ruling will become the ruling of the court if no notice of intent to appear is
received.”   
 
Notice may be given either by email at
BurDeptA@LACourt.org or by telephone at (818) 260-8412.
 
ALLEGATIONS: 
 
Linda Granero and Emily Aceves, by and through
her guardian ad litem Linda Granero (Plaintiffs) bring this action against Burlington
Beverly LLC, Olive Apartments LLC, and Drake Real Estate Group, Inc. (collectively
“Defendants”). Plaintiffs alleges Defendants wrongfully served a 60-day Notice
to Quit the property they rented at 1300-1304 West Olive Avenue, Burbank, CA
91506. Plaintiffs allege the 60-day Notice to Quit stated the Defendants were
terminating Plaintiffs’ tenancy based on an “intent to demolish or
substantially remodel the residential real property” pursuant to Cal. Civil
Code section 1946.2(b)(2)(D). (Compl. ¶ 19.) Plaintiffs allege Defendants
did not have a good-faith intent to demolish the building at the time the
notice was served. Plaintiffs allege they have suffered damages by virtue of
seeking alternative housing after the notice was posted. 
 
The Court notes that there is no allegation of
an unlawful detainer filing in the Complaint. Defendants indicate in their demurrer
that this is because Defendants inadvertently accepted rent from Plaintiffs
after the notice was served. (See Dem. p. 10.) Plaintiffs do not dispute that
the notice was void by acceptance of rent. (See Oppo. p. 7-8.)
 
Plaintiffs’ Complaint contains 9 causes of
action for (1) Violation of Unfair Competition Law, (2) Declaratory Relief, (3)
Intentional Misrepresentation, (4) Violation of County Antiharassment Ordinance,
(5) Violation of Civil Code § 1940.2 6. Retaliation, (7) Negligent
Misrepresentation, (8) Breach of Covenant of Quiet Enjoyment, and (9) Breach of
Implied Covenant of Good Faith and Fair Dealing. 
 
Defendants now demur to each of Plaintiffs’ causes
of action. Defendants also move to strike Plaintiffs’ requests for punitive
damages in connection with Plaintiffs’ cause of action for Negligent
Misrepresentation. Plaintiffs oppose and Defendants reply. 
 
JUDICIAL NOTICE & OBJECTIONS: 
 
Plaintiffs request the Court take
judicial notice of the Complaint in The People of the State of California v.
Green Valley Corporation, Case No. 23CV417467, filed June 13, 2023,
pursuant to Evidence Code § 452. The Court notes that Plaintiffs have not
attached a copy of this document and have not separately briefed the relevance
of this document to the instant motion. As such, the Court denies the request. 
 
As the Court declines to grant
Plaintiffs’ request for judicial notice, Defendants’ objection to its notice is
MOOT. 
 
Defendants request the Court take
judicial notice of the statutory language of Civil Code § 1946.2(b)(2)(D), both
as it is currently instated and as it will be amended on April 1, 2024. This
request is GRANTED. 
 
ANALYSIS: 
 
I.                   
LEGAL
STANDARDS
 
The grounds for a demurrer must appear on the
face of the pleading or from judicially noticeable matters. (C.C.P. §
430.30(a); Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal. 3d 311, 318.) A demurrer for
sufficiency tests whether the complaint states a cause of action. (Hahn v.
Mirda (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747.) The only issue involved in a
demurrer hearing is whether the complaint states a cause of action. (Id.)
 
A demurrer assumes the truth of all factual,
material allegations properly pled in the challenged pleading. (Blank v.
Kirwan, supra, 39 Cal. 3d at p. 318.) No matter how unlikely or improbable,
the plaintiff’s allegations must be accepted as true for the purpose of ruling
on the demurrer. (Del E. Webb Corp. v. Structural Materials Co. (1981)
123 Cal.  App. 3d 593, 604.) But this does not include contentions;
deductions; conclusions of fact or law alleged in the complaint; facts
impossible in law; or allegations contrary to facts of which a court may take
judicial notice.  (Blank, supra, 39 Cal. 3d at 318.)
 
Pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure (“C.C.P.”)
§§ 430.10(e) and (f), the party against whom a complaint has been filed may
demur to the pleading on the grounds that the pleading does not state facts
sufficient to constitute a cause of action, or that the pleading is uncertain,
ambiguous and/or unintelligible. It is an abuse of discretion to sustain a
demurrer without leave to amend if there is a reasonable probability that the
defect can be cured by amendment. (Schifando v. City of Los Angeles
(2003) 31 Cal. 4th 1074, 1082.)
 
Motions to strike are used to reach defects or
objections to pleadings that are not challengeable by demurrer, such as words,
phrases, and prayers for damages. (See C.C.P. §§ 435, 436, and 437.) The proper
procedure to attack false allegations in a pleading is a motion to strike.
(C.C.P. § 436(a).) In granting a motion to strike made under C.C.P. § 435,
“[t]he court may, upon a motion made pursuant to Section 435 [notice of motion
to strike whole or part of complaint], or at any time in its discretion, and upon
terms it deems proper: (a) Strike out any irrelevant, false, or improper matter
inserted in any pleading.” (C.C.P. § 436(a).) Irrelevant matters include
immaterial allegations that are not essential to the claim or those not
pertinent to or supported by an otherwise sufficient claim. (C.C.P. § 431.10.) 
 
The court may also “[s]trike out all or any part
of any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of this state, a
court rule, or an order of the court.” (C.C.P. § 436 (b).)
 
To
succeed on a motion to strike punitive damages allegations, it must be said as
a matter of law that the alleged behavior was not so vile, base, or
contemptible that it would not be looked down upon and despised by ordinary
decent people. (Angie M. v. Superior Court (1995) 37 Cal. App. 4th 1217,
1228-1229.)
 
II.                
MEET
& CONFER 
 
C.C.P. §§ 430.41(a) and 435.5(a) requires that
the moving party meet and confer with the party who filed the pleading that is
subject to the demurrer and/or motion to strike. Upon review the Court finds
the meet and confer requirements were met. (Rosenbaum Decl. ¶¶ 4-5.) 
 
III.             
MERITS 
 
Demurrer
 
As a preliminary matter, the
Court addresses Defendants’ demurrer on grounds that Plaintiffs’ causes of
action are barred by the litigation privilege. 
 
Defendants argue that Plaintiffs’
Complaint is barred because it is solely based on the 60-day Notice to Quit
served on April 15, 2023. (Compl. ¶ 18.) Defendants argue they issued
their 60-day Notice to Quit pursuant to Civil Code § 1946.2(b) which governs
the no-fault just cause conditions for termination of tenancy after continuous
and lawful occupation. Civil Code § 1946.2(b)(2)(D) establishes that “[i]ntent
to demolish or to substantially remodel the residential real property” serves
as a valid no-fault just cause for termination of residential residency.
 
Plaintiffs argue their Complaint
alleges Defendants lacked the good-faith intent to demolish the property.
Plaintiffs argue these allegations allow the Complaint to survive a demurrer
based on the litigation privilege, as the determination of whether the notice
was issued in good faith is a question of fact pursuant to Action Apartment
Association, Inc. v. City of Santa Monica (2007) 41 Cal.4th 1232
 
The litigation privilege within
Civil Code § 47(b) is an “absolute” privilege (Mallard v. Progressive Choice
Ins. Co. (2010) 188 Cal.App.4th 531, 543). “The litigation privilege,
however, is not without limit.” (Action Apartment Association, Inc. v. City
of Santa Monica (2007) 41 Cal.4th 1232, 1242.)  
 
Courts can, and have, applied the
litigation privilege to bar a cause of action on demurrer. In Silberg v.
Anderson, the California Supreme Court confirmed a ruling which
sustained such a demurrer. (Silberg v. Anderson (1990) 50 Cal.3d 205,
210.) The plaintiff in Silberg brought his claims against his wife’s
attorney in a prior marital dissolution action, arguing the attorney had
deceived him into participating in a biased psychological examination. (Id.)
The attorney demurred to the complaint, arguing plaintiff failed to state facts
sufficient to constitute a cause of action because the attorney’s statements
during the litigation were privileged under Civil Code § 47. (Id. at
221.) The Silberg court confirmed the sustaining of the demurrer,
finding that an “interest of justice exception” did not apply. (Id. at
218-219.) 
 
Silberg is useful to
our analysis here insofar as it confirms the general concept that the
litigation privilege can be applied upon demurrer. Other case law exists
supporting this general concept. (see Home Ins. Co. v. Zurich Ins. Co. (2002)
96 Cal.App.4th 17 [sustaining a demurrer on grounds that litigation privilege
barred a claim for fraudulent inducement where the inducing statement was made
in the course of litigation]; see also Tom Jones Enterprises, Ltd. v. County
of Los Angeles (2013) 212 Cal.App.4th 1283 [sustaining a demurrer to a
negligence cause of action because government employee’s release of funds
obtained via levy was privileged under Civil Code § 47].) However, Silberg,
Home Ins., and Tom Jones are distinguishable from the instant
case in that none of them contemplate the application of the litigation
privilege to causes of action stemming from the filing of an unlawful detainer
action. 
 
Case law applying the litigation
privilege to unlawful detainer actions exists, but it usually arises in the
context of a special motion to strike (“anti-SLAPP” motion). For example,
Defendants cite to Feldman v. 1100 Park Lane Associates in
contending that the litigation privilege applies to unlawful detainer actions.
The Court agrees that Feldman stands for this principle, however the
reasoning of the Feldman court was in some part reliant on the
procedural posture of an anti-SLAPP motion. This procedural difference makes
the principles of Feldman more difficult, though not impossible, to
apply in the demurrer context. 
 
Feldman concerned a special
motion to strike causes of action for retaliatory eviction, negligence, and wrongful
eviction. (Feldman v. 1100 Park Lane Associates (2008) 160
Cal.App.4th 1467, 1473.) All of the causes of action stemmed from defendant’s
filing of an unlawful detainer complaint. (Id.) The plaintiff in Feldman
alleged that the defendant had made false statements to law enforcement and
further false statements in a three-day notice to quit served on plaintiff. (Id.)
The California Court of Appeals upheld the striking of the retaliatory eviction
cause of action, finding the plaintiff did not make a prima facie showing that
they were likely to succeed on the merits. (Id. at 1492.) The court also
found the litigation privilege provided a defense to the cause of action for
negligence and that the plaintiff had again failed to demonstrate likelihood of
success. (Id.) Finally, the wrongful eviction claim was held to be
preempted by the state enacted litigation privilege because it was based on a
city ordinance. (Id. at 1494.) 
 
It appears from the Court’s
reading that the holding of Feldman was at least partially reliant on
facts stemming from the anti-SLAPP procedure. In their preliminary discussion
of whether the litigation privilege applied to notices to quit, the Court found
the law specifies that a three-day notice is protected by the litigation
privilege “when it relates to litigation that is contemplated in good
faith and under serious consideration.” (Id. at 1486.) The Feldman court
held that application of the litigation privilege to a notice to quit
is thus a question of fact. (Id. at 1487.) “The question of fact is
not whether the service was malicious or done with a bad intent or whether it
was done based upon facts the landlord has no reasonable cause to believe to be
true. Rather, the factual question . . . is whether a prelitigation
communication relates to litigation that is contemplated in good faith and
under serious consideration.” (Id. [internal quotation marks and
citations omitted].)
 
The determination of fact
contemplated in Feldman does not speak to the merits of the action. (Bisno
v. Douglas Emmett Realty Fund 1988 (2009) 174 Cal.App.4th 1534, 1552.)
“Instead, the focus is on whether the unlawful detainer action was seriously
contemplated when the notice was served, without regard to its merits or the
landlord’s motive.” (Id.)  Where a
three-day notice to quit was quickly followed by an unlawful detainer action, the
litigation privilege applies to bar causes of action stemming from that notice.
(Id.) 
 
The Court notes that parts of the Feldman
court’s ruling relied on their finding that the plaintiffs had not shown
likelihood of success on the merits. This is a finding which is uniquely
enabled by the presentation of evidence on a special motion to strike.
Anti-SLAPP motions are procedurally akin to summary judgment motions and afford
the Court the presentation of evidence speaking to the merits of the parties’
claims. In contrast, the Court cannot consider the presentation of evidence or
the likelihood of success on the merits on demurrer. 
 
In opposition, Plaintiff argues that Court of
Appeals in Ulkarim v. Westfield LLC declined to follow the rule in Feldman.
Plaintiff argues that Ulkarim creates a distinction between a cause
of action based on the “termination of a tenancy or filing of an unlawful
detainer complaint from a cause of action based on the decision to terminate or
other conduct in connection with the termination.” (Ulkarim v. Westfield LLC (2014)
227 Cal.App.4th 1266, 1276.)  
 
The Court first notes that Ulkarim concerned
an anti-SLAPP motion. The plaintiff in Ulkarim was a commercial tenant
of the defendant. (Id. at 1270.) The parties had a commercial tenancy
agreement which included the terms under which termination could be sought. (Id.)
The defendant served a notice of termination upon plaintiff followed by an
unlawful detainer action. The plaintiff subsequently brought an action for
breach of the contract, among others (Id. at 1271.) Some of the
plaintiff’s causes of action were based on the unlawful detainer action, while
others spoke to the notice of termination. (Id.) The defendant sought to
strike the entire action as an anti-SLAPP suit, which the trial court granted.
(Id.) 
 
On review the Court of Appeals was concerned
with whether plaintiff’s causes of action the notice of termination “arose
from” the filing of the unlawful detainer action, which was already determined
to be protected activity. (Id. at 1275.) The Court examined numerous
anti-SLAPP opinions, including Feldman, and declined to hold that a
notice of termination always “arises from” the protected activity of filing an
unlawful detainer action. The Ulkarim court held “The lesson we learn
from this line of authority is that a tenant's complaint against a landlord
filed after the service of a notice of termination and the filing of a
complaint for unlawful detainer does not arise from those particular activities
if the gravamen of the tenant's complaint challenges the decision to terminate
the tenancy or other conduct in connection with the termination apart from the
service of a notice of termination or filing of an unlawful detainer complaint.”
(Id. at 1279.) The court ultimately held that the causes of action
speaking to the notice of termination should not be struck because they spoke
to an alleged bad-faith termination of the business contract which stood
separate from the unlawful detainer action. (Id. at 1281.) 
 
Here, unlike Feldman and unlike Ulkarim,
there is no unlawful detainer action. Plaintiffs’ Complaint is based entirely
on the 60-day Notice to Quit. Also, unlike Ulkarim, this case does not
concern commercial tenancy. The 60-day Notice to Quit in this case and the
notice of termination in Ulkarim are not equivalent. A notice of
termination based on the conditions of a commercial tenancy contract is subject
to interpretation and the principles of bad faith generally applicable in
contract law. In contrast, the 60-day Notice to Quit in this case was served in
accordance with Civil Code § 1946.2. The statute outlines the legal
requirements for service of a notice to quit for a no-fault cause, including
where a landlord intends to demolish or substantially remodel the residential
real property. The law only requires the landlord state this intent in the
notice, it does not require this intent be the only motivation and it does not
require the landlord to evidence affirmative steps toward a demolish/remodel. 
 
Here, Defendants served the notice stating
their intent pursuant to the law. Afterward, Defendants inadvertently accepted
rent from Plaintiffs such that the notice became ineffective, and Defendants
could not pursue an unlawful detainer action. Plaintiffs’ allegations that
Defendants lacked good faith in announcing their intent to demolish the
residence does not remove the 60-day Notice to Quit from the purview of Civil
Code § 1946.2(d). 
 
The Court finds that Plaintiffs’ causes of
action, insofar as they are based on the filing of the 60-day Notice to Quit,
are barred as a matter of law by the litigation privilege. However, this does
not mean that Plaintiffs cannot state any cause of action against Defendants.
It could be that Plaintiffs may state causes of action against Defendants for
actions external to the notice. Plaintiffs Complaint hints at such actions in
paragraph 35 which alleges Defendants engaged in conduct such as issuing notices
restricting the use/enjoyment of the common areas and mandating overly
restrictive and arbitrary aesthetic conditions in Plaintiffs’ apartment, such
as a prohibition on visible items on interior windowsills and restricting
access to housing services, including parking, at the Property for multiple
consecutive days. The Court finds these allegations may be sufficient to
sustain some of Plaintiffs’ causes of action, but as currently stated they too
conclusory and it is unclear as to which cause of action these violations
speak. 
 
Accordingly, the demurrer to Plaintiffs’ Complaint is
SUSTAINED with 20 days’ leave to amend. 
 
Motion to Strike 
 
Defendants
seek to strike various portions of the FAC which request punitive damages and
attorneys’ fees. Given the Court has sustained the demurrer to the cause of
action upon which these claims can be made with leave to amend, the motion to
strike punitive damages is MOOT. 
 
RULING:
 
In the event the parties submit on this
tentative ruling, or a party requests a signed order or the court in its
discretion elects to sign a formal order, the following form will be either
electronically signed or signed in hard copy and entered into the court’s
records.
 
ORDER
 
Burlington Beverly LLC, Olive Apartments LLC,
and Drake Real Estate Group, Inc.’s Demurrer and
Motion to Strike came on regularly for hearing on February 2, 2024, with
appearances/submissions as noted in the minute order for said hearing, and the
court, being fully advised in the premises, did then and there rule as follows:
 
THE
DEMURRER IS SUSTAINED WITH 20 DAYS’ LEAVE TO AMEND. 
 
THE
MOTION TO STRIKE PLAINTIFFS’ REQUEST FOR PUNITIVE DAMAGES IS MOOT.
 
THIS
MATTER HAS BEEN TRANSFERRED TO ALHAMBRA, DEPT. V EFFECTIVE JANUARY 5,
2024.  A CASE MANAGEMENT CONFERENCE WILL
BE SET FOR APRIL 9, 2024 AT 8:30 A.M.
 
UNLESS
ALL PARTIES WAIVE NOTICE, DEFENDANTS TO GIVE NOTICE. 
 
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
DATE:  February
2, 2024                               
_______________________________
                                                                   
    F.M. TAVELMAN, Judge
                                                                        Superior
Court of California
County of Los Angeles
 