 Case Number:  23BBCV01365    Hearing Date:   February 2, 2024    Dept:  A LOS
ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT
NORTH
CENTRAL DISTRICT - BURBANK
DEPARTMENT
A
 

TENTATIVE
RULING
FEBRUARY 2,
2024

MOTION
TO COMPEL ARBITRATION & STAY MATTER

Los Angeles Superior Court
Case # 23BBCV01365

 



MP:  


Hillsdale Treatment Center, LLC,
  Timothy Dailey, and Eric Niccole (Defendants)




RP:  


None



 
NOTICE:
 
The
Court is not requesting oral argument on this matter.  Pursuant to
California Rules of Court, Rule 3.1308(a)(1) notice of intent to appear is
required.  Unless the Court directs argument in the Tentative Ruling, no
argument will be permitted unless a “party notifies all other parties and the
court by 4:00 p.m. on the court day before the hearing of the party’s intention
to appear and argue.  The tentative ruling will become the ruling of the
court if no notice of intent to appear is received.”   
 
Notice
may be given either by email at BurDeptA@LACourt.org or by telephone at (818)
260-8412.
 
ALLEGATIONS: 
 
Azad Khachatrian
(Plaintiff) brings this action against Hillsdale Treatment Center, LLC, a
Delaware Limited Liability Company registered in California (Hillsdale),
Timothy Dailey (Dailey), and Eric Niccole (Niccole) (collectively Defendants).
Plaintiff alleges Defendants breached a rental agreement for a care facility at
6704 Ben Ave, North Hollywood, CA 91606, by virtue of failure to pay rent and
causing damage to the property. Plaintiff states causes of action for (1)
Breach of Contract and (2) Breach of the Covenant of Good Faith and Fair
Dealing.  
 
Before
the Court is a Motion to Compel Arbitration and Stay Action brought by
Defendants. Plaintiff has rendered no opposition to this motion.  
  
ANALYSIS: 
 
I.                   
LEGAL
STANDARD 
 
Code of
Civil procedure § 1281.2 states: “[o]n petition of a party to an arbitration
agreement alleging the existence of a written agreement to arbitrate a
controversy and that a party thereto refuses to arbitrate such controversy, the
court shall order the petitioner and the respondent to arbitrate the
controversy if it determines that an agreement arbitrate the controversy
exists.” 
 
A party
seeking to compel arbitration has the initial burden to prove, by a
preponderance of the evidence, the existence of a valid and enforceable
arbitration agreement. (Engalla v. Permanente Medical Group, Inc. (1997)
15 Cal.4th 951, 972.) If the moving party has met its initial burden, then the
burden shifts to respondents to prove the falsity or unenforceability of the
arbitration agreement. (Ibid.) 
 
II.                
MERITS 
 
The Arbitration Clause 
 
As evidence of an
arbitration agreement between the parties, Defendants submit a copy of the
Management Service Agreement (Agreement) between Plaintiff (operating as
Freedom Transitional Living) and Hillsdale. (Mot. Exh. 1.A.) The Court notes
this agreement is also attached to the Complaint in this matter. The Agreement bears
the signatures of Plaintiff, as owner of Freedom Transitional Living, and
Dailey, as managing partner of Hillsdale. (Id.) The arbitration section
of the Agreement is located at paragraph 11 and reads, in relevant part, as follows:

 
11. Arbitration: Any dispute, claim or controversy arising out
of or relating to this Agreement or the breach, termination, enforcement,
interpretation or validity thereof, including the determination of the scope or
applicability of this agreement to arbitrate, shall be determined by
confidential, binding arbitration in Orange County, California before one
arbitrator. The arbitration shall be administered by JAMS pursuant to JAMS’
Streamlined Arbitration Rules and Procedures. Judgment on the Award may be
entered in any court having jurisdiction. This clause shall not preclude
parties from seeking provisional remedies in aid of arbitration from a court of
appropriate jurisdiction. 
 
The Court notes the broad
language employed in the arbitration clause. It appears from the plain language
of the contract that the parties agreed to resolve “any dispute, claim, or
controversy” arising out of the Agreement via arbitration. Given that
Plaintiff’s causes of action are both based on the breach of the Agreement, it
appears that this dispute does indeed “arise from” the Agreement. Absent any
argument from Plaintiff to the contrary, the Court finds Defendant has shown
the existence of a valid and enforceable arbitration agreement governing this
dispute. 
 
Further, the Court finds
that Dailey and Niccole can enforce the agreement to arbitrate, despite the
fact they are not signatories. Dailey’s signature on the Agreement is present
as a managing member of Hillsdale, meaning Dailey is alleged to have signed the
Agreement as an agent of Hillsdale and not in any personal capacity. Niccole’s
signature is not present on the Agreement, but he is likewise alleged to be an
agent of Hillsdale by virtue of his status as a managing member. (Compl. ¶ 4.) Courts
have routinely held that a nonsignatory who is an agent of a party to a
contract may compel the other parties to the contract to arbitrate claims arising
under the contract. (Fuentes v. TMCSF, Inc. (2018) 26 Cal.App.5th
541, 551.) Here, Plaintiff’s claims against Dailey and Niccole are based
expressly on the breach of the Agreement. No claims outside of the breach of
contract attach to Dailey and Niccole which must be separated as
non-arbitrable. 
 
As such, the Court finds Defendants
have provided sufficient evidence that Plaintiff’s dispute is subject to
arbitration and the burden thus shifts to Plaintiff to show falsity or
unenforceability. Plaintiff, having submitted no opposition to this motion, has
not upheld his burden. Given that the arbitration clause is present in
Plaintiff’s Complaint, the Court sees no facial claim for falsity. Further, the
language of the arbitration agreement appears to bind both parties equally and
is not facially unconscionable.  
 
Accordingly, the motion to
compel arbitration is GRANTED. 
 
Stay 
 
Once arbitration has been compelled,
in whole or in part, a stay of proceedings is mandatory if the issues in the
arbitration and the pending action overlap. (C.C.P. § 1281.4 (if a court “has
ordered arbitration of a controversy which is an issue involved in an action or
proceeding pending before a court of this State, the court in which such action
or proceeding is pending shall, upon motion of a party to such action or
proceeding, stay the action or proceeding until an arbitration is had in
accordance with the order to arbitrate or until such earlier time as the court
specifies.”)) 
 
“The purpose of the
statutory stay [under section 1281.4] is to protect the jurisdiction of the
arbitrator by preserving the status quo until arbitration is resolved. In the
absence of a stay, the continuation of the proceedings in the trial court
disrupts the arbitration proceedings and can render them ineffective.” (Federal
Ins. Co. v. Superior Court (1998) 60 Cal.App.4th 1370, 1374-1375 (citations
omitted).) 
 
As the Court grants the
motion to compel arbitration in its entirety, the Court also grants the motion
to stay the proceedings pending arbitration. 
--- 
 
RULING:
 
In the
event the parties submit on this tentative ruling, or a party requests a signed
order or the court in its discretion elects to sign a formal order, the
following form will be either electronically signed or signed in hard copy and
entered into the court’s records. 
 
ORDER 
 
Hillsdale Treatment
Center, LLC, Timothy Dailey, and Eric Niccole’s Motion to Compel Arbitration came on regularly for hearing on February 2, 2024, with
appearances/submissions as noted in the minute order for said hearing, and the
court, being fully advised in the premises, did then and there rule as
follows: 
 
THE MOTION TO COMPEL ARBITRATION IS GRANTED. 
 
THE STAY OF PROCEEDINGS IS GRANTED. 
 
THE MARCH 14, 2024 CASE MANAGEMENT CONFERENCE IS
ADVANCED AND VACATED.  A STATUS
CONFERENCE RE: ARBITRATION IS SET FOR AUGUST 29, 2024 AT 9:00 A.M. 
 
UNLESS ALL PARTIES WAIVE NOTICE, HILLSDALE
TREATMENT CENTER, LLC TO GIVE NOTICE. 
 
IT IS SO
ORDERED. 
 
DATE: 
February 2, 2024                            _______________________________ 
                                                                   
    F.M.
TAVELMAN, Judge 
Superior Court of California 
County of
Los Angeles 
 
 