 Case Number:  22BBCV00823    Hearing Date:   February 2, 2024    Dept:  A LOS
ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT
NORTH
CENTRAL DISTRICT - BURBANK
DEPARTMENT
A
 

TENTATIVE
RULING
FEBRUARY 2,
2024

MOTION
FOR LEAVE TO AMEND, MOTION TO QUASH, & MOTIONS TO COMPEL FURTHER RESPONSES

Los Angeles Superior Court
Case # 2BBCV00823

 



MP:  


Rebecca Brudzynski (Plaintiff)




RP:  


Peoples Action Power (Defendant)



 
NOTICE:
 
The
Court is not requesting oral argument on this matter.  Pursuant to
California Rules of Court, Rule 3.1308(a)(1) notice of intent to appear is
required.  Unless the Court directs argument in the Tentative Ruling, no
argument will be permitted unless a “party notifies all other parties and the
court by 4:00 p.m. on the court day before the hearing of the party’s intention
to appear and argue.  The tentative ruling will become the ruling of the
court if no notice of intent to appear is received.”   
 
Notice
may be given either by email at BurDeptA@LACourt.org or by telephone at (818)
260-8412.
 
ALLEGATIONS: 
 
Rebecca Brudzynski (Plaintiff)
brings this action against Peoples Action Power (Defendant). Plaintiff alleges
that she was subject to racial discrimination while she was an employee of
Defendant in 2020. Plaintiff is in this matter in pro per. 
 
Before the court are five
motions, each brought by Plaintiff. These motions are as follows, in order by
date of filing: 
 
1.     
Motion to
Compel Further Responses to Special Interrogatories Set Two (Filed Dec. 4,
2023).
2.     
Motion to
Compel Further Responses to Request for Production Set Two and Three (Filed
Dec. 4, 2021.) 
3.     
Motion to
Quash Deposition Subpoenas (Filed Dec. 11, 2023.) 
4.     
Motion to
Compel Further Request for Production Set Two and Three (Filed Dec. 21, 2021.)
5.     
Motion to
Join Necessary part on a Second Amended Complaint (Filed Dec. 26, 2023.)  
 
The Court
notes that Nos. 2 & 4 on this list appear duplicative. This will be
addressed in the Court’s substantive analysis. Defendant opposes each motion,
while Plaintiff has rendered no reply. 
  
ANALYSIS: 
 
Motion to
Join Necessary Parties 
 
Plaintiff
“Motion to Join Necessary Parties” seeks to join Adam Kruggel, People’s Action
Institute, and People’s Action Institute as necessary parties by filing a Second
Amended Complaint.  
 
The Court
finds that Plaintiff has not stated the appropriate grounds for this motion.
Plaintiff’s declaration states that the basis for her motion is California
Rules of Court (C.R.C.) Rule 3.110(e). C.R.C Rule 3.110(e) refers to the
modification of time to serve a defendant named in an action. This rule has no
bearing on the motion Plaintiff seeks to bring and does not provide authority
for her to make such a motion. 
 
Instead,
Plaintiff’s motion is essentially one for leave to amend her First Amended
Complaint (FAC) to add these parties as defendants. The requirements for such a
motion are governed by C.R.C. Rule 3.1324. As will be discussed below, the
Court finds Plaintiff’s has not made the statutory showings required to grant
leave to amend. 
 
A party
requesting leave to amend must submit a motion that includes: (1) a copy of the
proposed amendment or amended pleading, serially numbered to differentiate it
from previous pleadings; (2) a statement of which allegations would be deleted
by the amendment, and where they are located in the previous pleading; and (3)
a statement of what allegations would be added by the amendment, and where they
are located in the proposed pleading.¿ (C.R.C. Rule 3.1324(a).) The motion
should also include a declaration stating: (1) the effect of the amendment; (2)
why the amendment is necessary and proper; (3) when the facts giving rise to
the amended allegations were discovered; and (4) why the request was not made
earlier.¿ (Id. at Rule 3.1324(b).)
 
Here,
Plaintiff has failed to attach a proposed amended complaint as required by C.R.C.
Rule 3.1324(a)(1). Further, Plaintiff’s declaration does not explain the effect
of adding these parties nor why the addition of any of these parties is in fact
necessary. Plaintiff has brought this action against People’s Action Power, and
her motion does not endeavor to explain why the current defendant is
inadequate. To the extent that Plaintiff’s motion claims these proposed parties
are alter-egos or agents of People’s Action Power, such claims must be
supported by evidentiary showings to that effect. Plaintiff’s motion is
unaccompanied by any evidence as to the corporate or agency status of the
proposed parties absent her own declaration that she believes Adam Kruggel
controls all these entities. 
 
In short,
Plaintiff’s motion contains almost none of the information required by C.R.C.
Rule 3.1324(a)-(b) which governs motions for leave to amend. 
 
Accordingly,
this motion is DENIED without prejudice. 
 
Motion to
Quash 
 
Plaintiff
moves to quash two Deposition Subpoenas served on Soultenders, Inc.
(Soultenders) and Susan Wooton Reyes (Reyes). These deposition subpoenas seek
disclosure of Plaintiff’s mental health records from 2020 to present. (Tang
Decl. ¶ 7.) Soultenders and Reyes were both identified as mental health
providers by Plaintiff in response to Defendant’s Interrogatories. (Tang Decl.
¶ 5.) Defendant states they issued the subpoenas because Plaintiff
specifically identified emotional injury attributable to the incident in this
case. (Tang Decl. ¶ 4.)
 
Plaintiff
states two separate grounds upon which the subpoenas must be quashed. First,
Plaintiff argues that the subpoenas are violative of her right to privacy. The
Court finds this argument unpersuasive, as Plaintiff has placed her mental
health at issue in this case. 
 
Under Article
I § 1 of the California Constitution, California recognizes a constitutional
right to privacy. This right “protects an individual’s reasonable
expectation of privacy against a serious invasion.” (Faunce v. Cate (2013)
222 Cal.App.4th 166, 171.) Under California law, even highly relevant,
nonprivileged information may be shielded from discovery if its disclosure
would impair a person’s inalienable right to privacy. (See Britt
v. Superior Court (1978) 20 Cal.3d 844, 855-56.) The right to privacy
protects the individual’s reasonable expectation of privacy against a serious
invasion. (Pioneer Electronics (USA), Inc. v. Superior Court (2007) 40
Cal.4th 360, 370.) 
 
Bringing
a suit that puts one's medical or mental condition at issue can waive one's
privacy rights. (Vinson v. Superior Court (1987) 43 Cal.3d 833, 842.)
“[B]y asserting a causal link between her mental distress and defendants’
conduct, plaintiff implicitly claims it was not caused by a preexisting mental
condition, thereby raising the question of alternative sources for the
distress. We thus conclude that her mental state is in controversy.” (Vinson,
supra, 43 Cal.3d at 840.)
 
Here,
Plaintiff is directly asserting that she was caused emotional distress by the
events alleged in her First Amended Complaint. Thus, Plaintiff has waived the
privacy interest in her mental health records as they are directly relevant to
her claims against Defendant. 
 
Plaintiff
also appears to argue that the subpoenas are overbroad. Plaintiff does not
substantively brief this argument, only simply stating that the requests are
overboard and not reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible
evidence. 
 
C.C.P. §
2020.410(a) states that a deposition subpoena that commands only the production
of business records for copying shall designate the business records to be
produced either by specifically describing each individual item or reasonably
particularizing each category of item and shall specify the form in which any
electronically stored information is to be produced if a particular form is
desired. The copies of the subpoenas are not attached to Plaintiff’s motion but
are attached to Defendant’s opposition. From the Court’s review of the
subpoenas, it appears they are compliant with C.C.P. § 2020.410(a). Plaintiff
submits no substantive argument as to how the subpoenas are non-compliant. 
 
The Court
finds that the contention that the subpoenas are overbroad is unsupported.
Given that Plaintiff’s mental state and damages are at issue, Defendant is
allowed to inquire into the basis for such claims in order to defend itself in
this litigation.
 
Accordingly,
the motion to quash the deposition subpoenas is DENIED.  However, given the sensitive nature of what is
being requested, the Court does believe that compliance should be contingent
upon the Defendant agreeing to a protective order for the records.
 
Motion to
Compel Further Responses 
 
 
Motion to
Compel Further Production of Documents 
 
The Court
is unable to ascertain the basis for the two motions to compel further
responses which are on its calendar for February 2, 2024. It appears that
Plaintiff has reserved two separate hearings for her Motion to Compel Further
Responses to Request for Production (RFPD) Sets Two and Three. It also appears
that Plaintiff has filed two separate motions under this same title. One of
these motions was filed on December 4, 2023 and the other was filed December
21, 2023. Both of these motions seek the exact relief, that Defendant be
compelled to provide further reply to Plaintiff’s RFPD Sets Two and Three,
which were served on November 1, 2023. (Brudzynski Decl. ¶ 2.) These RFPD sets
were intended to replace RFPD Set One which contained a statutorily impermissible
amount of requests. 
 
Brudzynski’s
declaration does not state when responses were received to RFPD Set Two and
Three. Her December 4, 2023, motion includes a separate statement which has
responses from Defendant, but it is unclear from where these responses came.
This is critically important because Brudzynski argues in her December 21, 2023,
motion that Defendant served further responses to the RFPD on December 5, 2023.
The serving of further responses on December 5, 2023, after the filing of the
first motion, suggests that the December 4, 2023 motion is moot. 
 
Plaintiff
could still seek to compel further responses to the RFPD, but she would need to
include the December 5, 2023 responses in such a motion and explain why those
responses remain insufficient. Plaintiff submitted no separate statement with
her December 21, 2023 motion and did not attach the December 5 responses.
Instead, Plaintiff simply states the December 5 responses remain insufficient.
(Dec. 21 Mot. p. 2, ¶ 2.) 
 
In short,
it appears that Defendant served additional responses to the RFPD on December
5, 2023 which would have mooted the December 4, 2023 motion. Plaintiff
subsequently filed another motion to compel further responses on December 21,
2023 that is not code compliant. 
 
Accordingly,
the motion to compel further responses to RFPD Sets Two and Three is DENIED
without prejudice. 
 
Motion To
Compel Further Responses to Special Interrogatories 
 
Plaintiff
also moves to compel further responses to her Special Interrogatories Set Two. 
 
As with
her RFPD, Plaintiff’s Interrogatories Set One also exceeded the number allowed
by statute. (Brudzynski Decl. ¶ 1.) Plaintiff agreed to submit shorter
interrogatories and propounded her Special Interrogatories Set Two on November
1, 2023. (Brudzynski Decl. ¶ 2.) It appears from Plaintiff’s motion that
she contends she never received responses to her Special interrogatories Set
Two. (SPROG Mot. p. 2, ¶ 2.) However, Plaintiff then states that she
received responses to Special Interrogatories Set One at some point. (Id.)

 
The Court
further notes that Plaintiff’s separate statement submitted in conjunction with
her motion is not code compliant. C.R.C. Rule 3.1345(c) requires that a
separate statement contain the text of each response received. Plaintiff’s
separate statement contains no responses from Defendant at all and they are not
attached as an exhibit. 
 
It is
unclear to the Court whether Plaintiff has or has not received responses to her
Special Interrogatories Set Two. If Plaintiff has not received responses, then
she is making her motion on the wrong grounds, as she should be seeking to
compel initial production rather than further production. If Plaintiff has
received responses, her motion is not code compliant for failure to include
those responses in her separate statement. In either case, the motion before
the Court is defective. 
 
Accordingly,
the motion to compel further responses to Special Interrogatories Set Two is
DENIED without prejudice. 
--- 
 
RULING:
 
In the
event the parties submit on this tentative ruling, or a party requests a signed
order or the court in its discretion elects to sign a formal order, the
following form will be either electronically signed or signed in hard copy and
entered into the court’s records. 
 
ORDER 
 
Rebecca Brudzynski’s
Motion to for leave to amend, motion to quash, & motions to compel further
responses came on regularly for hearing on February 2,
2024, with appearances/submissions as noted in the minute order for said
hearing, and the court, being fully advised in the premises, did then and there
rule as follows: 
 
THE MOTION FOR LEAVE TO AMEND IS DENIED WITHOUT
PREJUDICE. 
 
THE MOTION TO QUASH DEPOSITION SUBPOENAS IS
DENIED SUBJECT TO A PROTECTIVE ORDER.
 
THE MOTION TO COMPEL FURTHER RESPONSES TO
SPECIAL INTERROGATORIES SET TWO IS DENIED WITHOUT PREJUDICE. 
 
THE MOTION TO COMPEL FURTHER REPSONSES TO
REQUEST FOR PRODUCTION SETS TWO AND THREE IS DENIED WITHOUT PREJUDICE. 
 
UNLESS ALL PARTIES WAIVE NOTICE, DEFENDANT TO
GIVE NOTICE. 
 
IT IS SO
ORDERED. 
 
DATE: February
2, 2024                            _______________________________ 
                                                                   
    F.M.
TAVELMAN, Judge 
Superior Court of California 
County of
Los Angeles 
 
 