  Case Number:  19BBCV01129    Hearing Date:   February 2, 2024    Dept:  A LOS
ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT
NORTH
CENTRAL DISTRICT - BURBANK
DEPARTMENT
A
 

TENTATIVE
RULING
FEBRUARY 2,
2023

MOTION FOR
LEAVE TO AMEND ANSWER

Los Angeles Superior Court
Case # 19BBCV01129

 



MP:  


California Automobile Insurance
  Company (Defendant)




RP:  


None



 
NOTICE:
 
The Court is not requesting oral argument on this
matter.  Pursuant to California Rules of Court, Rule 3.1308(a)(1) notice
of intent to appear is required.  Unless the Court directs argument in the
Tentative Ruling, no argument will be permitted unless a “party notifies all
other parties and the court by 4:00 p.m. on the court day before the hearing of
the party’s intention to appear and argue.  The tentative ruling will
become the ruling of the court if no notice of intent to appear is received.”  

 
Notice may be given either by email at BurDeptA@LACourt.org
or by telephone at (818) 260-8412.
 
ALLEGATIONS: 
 
Anoush Semerdjian (Plaintiff) brings this action against
California Automobile Insurance Company (CalAuto). Plaintiff contends she
purchased a homeowner’s insurance policy (Policy) from CalAuto prior to April
7, 2018 that covered her pets. (TAC ¶¶ 7, 8.) 
Plaintiff asserts that on April 7, 2018, her dog escaped the property
and subsequently bit Lode Margolis (“Margolis”) who sustained substantial
injury. (TAC ¶ 11.) Plaintiff alleges CalAuto breached the terms of the
insurance contract when it refused to reimburse Plaintiff for the costs associated
with boarding the dog after the incident. (TAC ¶ 14.) 
 
CalAuto
now moves for leave to amend their answer to the TAC for a second time. CalAuto
seeks to add an additional affirmative defense that Plaintiff’s claim is barred
by the four-year statute of limitations. CalAuto states this affirmative
defense was inadvertently omitted from its first amended answer. Plaintiff has
rendered no opposition to this motion. 
 
ANALYSIS: 
 
I.                   
LEGAL
STANDARD 
 
C.C.P. §
473(a)(1) provides, in relevant part: “The court may, in furtherance of
justice, and on any terms as may be proper, allow a party to amend any pleading
or proceeding by adding or striking out the name of any party, or by correcting
a mistake in the name of a party, or a mistake in any other respect; and may,
upon like terms, enlarge the time for answer or demurrer. The court may
likewise, in its discretion, after notice to the adverse party, allow, upon any
terms as may be just, an amendment to any pleading or proceeding in other
particulars; and may upon like terms allow an answer to be made after the time
limited by this code.”
 
“This
discretion should be exercised liberally in favor of amendments, for judicial
policy favors resolution of all disputed matters in the same lawsuit.” (Kittredge
Sports Co. v. Superior Court (1989) 213 Cal.App.3d 1045, 1047.) Ordinarily,
the court will not consider the validity of the proposed amended pleading in
ruling on a motion for leave since grounds for a demurrer or motion to strike
are premature. (See Id. at 1048.) The court, however, does have
discretion to deny leave to amend where a proposed amendment fails to state a
valid defense as a matter of law and the defect cannot be cured by further
amendment. (See California Casualty General Ins. Co. v. Superior Court
(1985) 173 Cal.App.3d 274, 281.)
 
Under
California Rules of Court Rule (C.R.C.) 3.1324(a), a motion to amend a pleading
shall: (1) include a copy of the proposed amendment or amended pleading, which
must be serially numbered to differentiate it from previous pleadings or
amendments; (2) state what allegations in the previous pleading are proposed to
be deleted, if any, and where, by page, paragraph and line number, the deleted
allegations are located; and (3) state what allegations are proposed to be
added to the previous pleading, if any, and where, by page, paragraph, and line
number, the additional allegations are located.
 
Under C.R.C.
Rule 3.1324(b), a separate declaration must accompany the motion and must
specify: (1) the effect of the amendment; (2) why the amendment is necessary
and proper; (3) when the facts giving rise to the amended allegations were
discovered; and (4) the reasons why the request for amendment was not made
earlier.
 
II.                
MERITS 
 
The Court finds CalAuto has
submitted sufficient declarations in support of their motion.
 
CalAuto submits a copy of
the proposed amended answer alongside their motion which includes the
additional affirmative defense. CalAuto also submits the declaration of their
counsel Tod Castronovo (Castronovo). In his declaration, Castronovo attests
that the amended answer seeks to add a sixth affirmative defense at page 6,
lines 7-11 reading “Statute of Limitations – 4 Year Statute of Limitations”.
(Castronovo Decl. ¶ 3.) The Court finds these submissions satisfy the
requirements of C.R.C. Rule 3.1324(a). 
 
A separate Castronovo
declaration is attached to the moving papers. In this declaration Castronovo
states that CalAuto inadvertently failed to include the additional affirmative
defense at the time it filed its first amended complaint on September 21, 2023.
(Castronovo Mot. Decl. ¶ 5.) Castronovo advised Plaintiff’s counsel of
this omission and sent correspondence seeking a stipulation that the
affirmative defense be added. (Castronovo Mot. Decl. ¶ 7, Exh. A.) Having
heard no reply to this correspondence, Castronovo instead proceeded to seek
leave of the court to amend. (Castronovo Mot. Decl. ¶ 8.) From the
Castronovo declaration, the Court is satisfied that the requirements of C.R.C.
Rule 3.1324(b) have been met. CalAuto has explained the effect of the amendment
would be to add an additional affirmative defense, has demonstrated that this
defense may be applicable to the instant case, and stated their efforts to
correct the inadvertent omission of the defense once it was discovered. 
 
The Court finds CalAuto has
fulfilled the requirements of California Rules of Court, Rule 3.1324(a) and
(b). Further, requests to amend Answers are to be liberally considered and Plaintiff
has rendered no opposition to this motion. 
Accordingly, CalAuto’s motion for leave to amend their answer to the
Third Amended Complaint is GRANTED. The Second Amended Answer to Third Amended
Complaint filed by CalAuto on December 4, 2023 is deemed the operative Answer. 
--- 
 
RULING:
 
In the
event the parties submit on this tentative ruling, or a party requests a signed
order or the court in its discretion elects to sign a formal order, the
following form will be either electronically signed or signed in hard copy and
entered into the court’s records. 
 
ORDER 
 
California Automobile
Insurance Company’s Motion for Leave to Amend came on
regularly for hearing on February 26, 2024 with appearances/submissions as
noted in the minute order for said hearing, and the court, being fully advised
in the premises, did then and there rule as follows: 
 
THE MOTION FOR LEAVE TO AMEND IS GRANTED. 
 
THE SECOND AMENDED ANSWER TO THIRD AMENDED
COMPLAINT FILED BY CALAUTO ON DECEMBER 4, 2023 IS DEEMED THE OPERATIVE ANSWER. 
 
THE CASE MANAGEMENT CONFERENCE SET FOR APRIL 24,
2024 REMAINS. 
 
CALIFORNIA AUTOMOBILE INSURANCE COMPANY TO GIVE
NOTICE.
 
IT IS SO
ORDERED. 
 
DATE: 
February 2, 2024                               _______________________________ 
                                                                   
    F.M.
TAVELMAN, Judge 
Superior Court of California 
County of
Los Angeles 
 
 