 Case Number:  22BBCV00852    Hearing Date:   February 2, 2024    Dept:  A LOS
ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT
NORTH
CENTRAL DISTRICT - BURBANK
DEPARTMENT
A
 

TENTATIVE
RULING
FEBRUARY 2,
2024

MOTION
TO VACATE DEFAULT JUDGMENT 

Los Angeles Superior Court
Case # 22BBCV00852

 



MP:  


Minako America
  Corporation and Mina Refaat (Defendants)




RP:  


Abdulaziz, Grossman,
  & Rudman (Plaintiff)



 
NOTICE:
 
The Court is not requesting oral argument on this
matter.  Pursuant to California Rules of Court, Rule 3.1308(a)(1) notice
of intent to appear is required.  Unless the Court directs argument in the
Tentative Ruling, no argument will be permitted unless a “party notifies all
other parties and the court by 4:00 p.m. on the court day before the hearing of
the party’s intention to appear and argue.  The tentative ruling will
become the ruling of the court if no notice of intent to appear is received.”  

 
Notice may be given either by email at BurDeptA@LACourt.org
or by telephone at (818) 260-8412.
 
ALLEGATIONS: 
 
Abdulaziz,
Grossman, & Rudman (Plaintiff) bring this action against Minako America
Corporation (Minako) and Mina Refaat (Refaat) (collectively Defendants).
Plaintiff alleges that Defendants failed to pay for legal services rendered.
Plaintiff seeks damages in the amount of $50,876.24. 
 
On
October 26, 2023, Plaintiff filed the Complaint in this action. The proof of service
attests to Defendants’ personal service upon Refaat November 8, 2022 at 522
East Airline Way Gardena, California. 
 
On March
21, 2023, the Court entered default against Defendants. Despite the default, on
March 22, 2203, the Court held a case management conference. Refaat appeared at
the case management conference on behalf of himself. The Court informed Refaat
that he could not represent Minako in this action, as corporations must be
represented by an attorney in the State of California. The Court’s minute order
reflects that the parties stipulated to continue the case management conference
to July 31, 2023 and Plaintiff’s counsel was ordered to give notice. 
 
Plaintiff
thereafter requested the entry of a Default Judgment which was initially
rejected, but then on July 12, 2023, the Default Judgment was ultimately
entered. On July 20, 2023, a writ of execution was issued. 
 
Defendants
now move the Court to vacate the Default Judgment entered against them.
Defendants first state that the judgment should be set aside on grounds of
extrinsic fraud. Alternatively, Defendants suggest the Court exercise its
discretion in setting aside the judgment due to Defendants’ mistake/neglect.
Plaintiff opposed the motion, arguing that no extrinsic fraud occurred, and
that Defendants were properly served in the motion. 
    
OBJECTIONS: 
 
Plaintiff’s objections to the
declaration of Kimberly Manning are SUSTAINED as to Nos. 1 & 2 and
OVERRULED as to No. 3. 
 
ANALYSIS: 
 
I.                   
LEGAL
STANDARD 
 
After a default judgment is entered, a
defendant has three basic avenues for relief: (1) the party can obtain relief
under C.C.P. §473 and §473.5; (2) the party can show that extrinsic fraud or
mistake exists; or (3) the party can show that the default judgment was
facially void.  (Trackman v. Kenney
(2010) 187 Cal.App.4th 175, 181.)
 
Extrinsic Fraud
 
“Extrinsic fraud occurs when a party is
deprived of the opportunity to present his claim or defense to the court; where
he was kept ignorant or, other than from his own negligence, fraudulently
prevented from fully participating in the proceeding.” (Spom v. Home Depot
USA, Inc. (2005) 126 Cal.App.4th 1294, 1300.) “While the grounds for an
equitable action to set aside a default judgment are commonly stated as being
those of extrinsic fraud or mistake, the terms are given a very broad meaning
which tends to encompass all circumstances that deprive an adversary of fair
notice of hearing whether or not those circumstances would qualify as
fraudulent or mistaken in the strict sense.” (Munoz v. Lopez (1969) 275
Cal.App.2d 178, 181.) 
 
“To set aside a judgment based upon
extrinsic mistake one must satisfy three elements. First, the defaulted party
must demonstrate that it has a meritorious case. Second, the party seeking to
set aside the default must articulate a satisfactory excuse for not presenting
a defense to the original action. Last, the moving party must demonstrate
diligence in seeking to set aside the default once ... discovered.” (Rappleyea
v. Campbell (1994) 8 Cal.4th 975, 982 [internal citations and quotations
omitted].)
 
C.C.P. §
473(b)
 
C.C.P. § 473(b) has
both a discretionary relief provision and a mandatory relief provision. The
discretionary provision of C.C.P. §
473(b), in pertinent part, reads as follows: 
 
The court may, upon any terms as may be just,
relieve a party or his or her legal representative from a judgment, dismissal,
order, or other proceeding taken against him or her through his or her mistake,
inadvertence, surprise, or excusable neglect. Application for this relief shall
be accompanied by a copy of the answer or other pleading proposed to be filed
therein, otherwise the application shall not be granted, and shall be made
within a reasonable time, in no case exceeding six months, after the judgment,
dismissal, order, or proceeding was taken…
 
The
mandatory provision of C.C.P. § 473(b) reads, in pertinent part, as follows: 
 
Notwithstanding any other requirements of this
section, the court shall, whenever an application for relief is made no more
than six months after entry of judgment, is in proper form, and is accompanied
by an attorney’s sworn affidavit attesting to his or her mistake, inadvertence,
surprise, or neglect, vacate any (1) resulting default entered by the clerk
against his or her client, and which will result in entry of a default
judgment, or (2) resulting default judgment or dismissal entered against his or
her client, unless the court finds that the default or dismissal was not in
fact caused by the attorney’s mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or
neglect. 
 
The
general underlying purpose of C.C.P. § 473(b) is to promote the
determination of actions on their merits. (Even Zohar Construction
& Remodeling, Inc. v. Bellaire Townhouses, LLC (2015) 61 Cal.4th
830.) Under this statute, an application for relief must be made no more than
six months after entry of the judgment, dismissal, order, or other proceeding
from which relief is sought and must be accompanied by an affidavit of fault
attesting to the mistake, inadvertence, surprise or neglect of the moving party
or its attorney. (C.C.P., § 473(b); English v. IKON Business Solutions
(2001) 94 Cal.App.4th 130, 143.)
 
II.                
MERITS 
 
Extrinsic
Fraud 
 
Extrinsic
fraud is a broad concept that “tend[s] to encompass almost any set of extrinsic
circumstances which deprive a party of a fair adversary hearing.” (Marriage
of Park (1980) 27 Cal.3d 337, 342; County of San Diego v. Gorham
(2010) 186 Cal.App.4th 1215, 1229 [default judgment obtained by false proof of
service constitutes extrinsic fraud].) But extrinsic fraud is not a basis for
relief when a defendant’s own negligence “permitted the fraud to be practiced”
or where there is no “causation between the misrepresentation and a defendant’s
failure to present a defense.” (Kramer v. Traditional Escrow, Inc.,
(2020) 56 Cal.App.5th 13, 36 [internal quotes omitted].)
 
Here,
Defendants allege a myriad of misrepresentations of which only some are
relevant to the failure to provide a defense. As a preliminary matter,
Defendants allegations that funds were taken from an incorrect account after
the writ of execution issued are irrelevant to any determination of extrinsic
fraud in obtaining the default judgment. (See Refaat Decl. Exh. D, Manning
Decl. ¶ 4.)  
 
The
substance of Defendants’ motion begins by arguing that Plaintiff agreed not to
pursue default during settlement discussions. (See Mot. p. 5.) As support for
this claim the motion cites to the declaration of Defendants’ counsel Kimberly
Manning (Manning). A review of the Manning declaration reveals no reference to
any settlement negotiations or an agreement by Plaintiffs to not pursue
default. All the Manning declaration shows is that Manning requested Plaintiff
stipulate to set aside the default and Plaintiff refused this request. (Manning
Decl. ¶ 5.) 
 
The
record is clear that Defendants had notice of this lawsuit by virtue of
Refaat’s appearance at the March 22, 2023 case management conference. This case
management conference was held a day after default was entered and the default
was discussed at the case management conference. (See Goodman Decl. ¶ 4.)
The Court specifically informed Refaat of the circumstances of the case and
advised him to seek counsel to represent Minako. (Id.) Refaat states
only that the case management conference was continued and that no one from
Plaintiff would speak to him. (Refaat Decl. ¶ 4.) 
 
Further,
the Court finds Defendants’ argument that Plaintiff lied about service to be
unavailing. Plaintiffs submit the sworn affidavit of a process served that
Refaat was personally served with process. This affidavit creates a rebuttable
presumption that service was valid. (American Express Centurion Bank v. Zara
(2011) 199¿Cal.App.4th 383, 390 [internal citation omitted]; Evid. Code §
647.) Refaat’s self-serving declaration that he was out of town at the time of
service, unaccompanied by any evidentiary showing to that effect, is not
sufficient to rebut the presumption created by the proof of service. (See
Refaat Decl. ¶ 3.) 
 
Nowhere
in Defendants motion do they state facts amounting to a fraud perpetrated by
Plaintiffs. Plaintiffs have proceeded with default in the usual course of
litigation and have provided notice to Defendants of their intent to do so. The
fact that Refaat may not have understood fully the circumstances at the case
management conference does not speak to an extrinsic fraud on Plaintiff’s
behalf. 
 
C.C.P. §
473 
 
The Court
first notes that Defendants’ motion is within the time frame for discretionary
relief under C.C.P. § 473(b). Defendants had six months from the entry of
default judgment to bring a motion to vacate that judgment. Default judgment
was entered on July 12, 2023, giving Defendants until January 12, 2023 to file
this motion. Defendants’ motion was filed on November 20, 2023. The same cannot
be said for the entry of default, which occurred some months earlier.
Regardless, Defendants’ motion does not seek to set aside the default, only the
default judgment. 
 
The Court
declines to exercise its discretion to vacate the judgment. As previously
discussed, Defendants only argument on this front is that Refaat was confused
about the meaning of the March 22, 2023 case management conference. Refaat’s
statement regarding the case management conference is as follows: 
 
Through my prior counsel I got an email of a
Case Management Conference earlier in March of this year that there was a
hearing. I went myself and the judge continued it. I tried to speak to my prior
attorneys but no one would speak to me and no one told me that I needed
independent counsel for my corporation to avoid default. Of course, I had no
idea that I would be personally at risk as I had no fee agreement as an
individual with my "trusted" attorneys, nor did my innocent wife.
 
(Refaat
Decl. ¶ 4.)
 
This
statement indicates that Refaat was aware of this case, aware of the fact that
a default was entered, and aware that he needed to obtain counsel to represent
Minako. Furthermore, the Court advised Refaat of the status, and the need for
the legal entity to have counsel.  Refaat
still did not promptly act.  The only
relief under C.C.P. § 473(b) with which this statement could comport is
excusable neglect. Excusable neglect exists when reasonably prudent person in
similar circumstances might have made same error. (County of San Bernardino
v. Mancini (2022) 83 Cal.App.5th 1095, 1103.) The Court does not view
the circumstances of this case as the result of an error by a reasonably
prudent person. The facts before the Court indicate that Refaat was served with
notice of this action and did not file a responsive pleading. The facts
similarly indicate that Refaat was aware of the default and the need to hire
counsel to represent Minako, yet he did not do so until after default judgment
was entered. 
 
In their
reply, Defendants argue for the first time that notice of the continued case
management conference was never received. (See Reply. p. 4.) Defendants argue
they were waiting for notice of the continued hearing and believed they would
have a chance to dispute the default at that hearing. (Id.) Defendants
submit no declarations to this effect. If notice was not received of the
continuance, why does neither the Refaat nor Manning declaration state as much?
As it currently stands, the Court has no statement from Refaat regarding the
nature of his mistake or neglect, only the arguments of his counsel in reply. 
 
In short,
the Court finds the showings of Defendants do not indicate that default
judgment was entered as the result of mistake or excusable neglect. Nor do
Defendants submit a declaration of attorney mistake which would entitle them to
mandatory relief. 
 
Accordingly,
the motion to vacate default judgment is DENIED. 
 
--- 
RULING:
 
In the
event the parties submit on this tentative ruling, or a party requests a signed
order or the court in its discretion elects to sign a formal order, the
following form will be either electronically signed or signed in hard copy and
entered into the court’s records. 
 
ORDER 
 
Minako
America Corporation and Mina Refaat’s
Motion to Vacate Default Judgment came on regularly
for hearing on February 2, 2024, with appearances/submissions as noted in the
minute order for said hearing, and the court, being fully advised in the
premises, did then and there rule as follows: 
 
THE MOTION TO SET ASIDE AND VACATE DEFAULT IS DENIED.
 
 
UNLESS
ALL PARTIES WAIVE NOTICE, PLAINTIFF TO GIVE NOTICE.
 
IT IS SO
ORDERED. 
 
DATE: 
February 2, 2024                            _______________________________ 
                                                                   
    F.M. TAVELMAN, Judge 
Superior Court of California 
County of
Los Angeles 
 
 