 Case Number:  23BBCV01415    Hearing Date:   February 2, 2024    Dept:  A LOS
ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT
NORTH
CENTRAL DISTRICT - BURBANK
DEPARTMENT
A
 

TENTATIVE
RULING
FEBRUARY 2,
2024

MOTION
TO COMPEL FURTHER DISCOVERY RESPONSES

Los Angeles Superior Court
Case # 23BBCV01415

 



MP:  


Brendan
  Patrick Cyr (Plaintiff)




RP:  


None



 
NOTICE:
 
The Court is not requesting oral argument on this
matter.  Pursuant to California Rules of Court, Rule 3.1308(a)(1) notice
of intent to appear is required.  Unless the Court directs argument in the
Tentative Ruling, no argument will be permitted unless a “party notifies all
other parties and the court by 4:00 p.m. on the court day before the hearing of
the party’s intention to appear and argue.  The tentative ruling will
become the ruling of the court if no notice of intent to appear is received.”  

 
Notice may be given either by email at BurDeptA@LACourt.org
or by telephone at (818) 260-8412.
 
ALLEGATIONS: 
 
Dennis Stirling (Plaintiff) brings this action against Brendan
Patrick Cyr (Defendant) and Dona Maria Corral. Plaintiff alleges Defendant
negligently operated a motor vehicle which resulted in a rear-end collision
with Plaintiff’s vehicle and subsequent injury. Plaintiff’s Complaint states a
singular cause of action for negligence. 
 
Before the Court are two motions to compel further discovery
responses brought by Defendant. Defendant seeks to compel Plaintiff’s further
responses to his Form Interrogatories Nos. 4.1, 6.4, 6.5, 10.1, and 20.2.
Defendant also seeks further responses to his Requests for Production of
Documents (RFPD) Nos. 1-14. Defendant additionally seeks monetary sanctions in
regard to both motions. Plaintiff has rendered no opposition to either motion. 
 
ANALYSIS: 
 
I.           
LEGAL
STANDARD 
 
Motion to
Compel Further Responses to Interrogatories 
 
On
receipt of a response to interrogatories, the propounding party may move for an
order compelling a further response if the propounding party deems that the
responses contain: (1) answers that are evasive or incomplete, (2)¿an
unwarranted or insufficiently specific exercise of an option to produce
documents in lieu of a substantive response, or (3) unmerited or overly
generalized objections.  (C.C.P.
§¿2030.300(a).) The responding party has the burden of justifying the
objections thereto. (Coy v. Sup.Ct. (1962) 58 Cal.2d 210, 220-21.)
  
Motion to
Compel Further Responses to RFPD
 
A motion
to compel further responses to RFPD may be brought based on: (1) incomplete
statements of compliance; (2) inadequate, evasive, or incomplete claims of
inability to comply; or (3) unmerited or overly generalized objections. 
(C.C.P. § 2031.310(c).) 
 
A motion
to compel further production must set forth specific facts showing good cause
justifying the discovery sought by the inspection demand. (See C.C.P. §
2031.310(b)(1).) In Digital Music News LLC v Superior Court (2014) 226
Cal.App.4th 216 at 224, the Court defined “good cause” as a showing that there
“a disputed fact that is of consequence in the action and the discovery sought
will tend in reason to prove or disprove that fact or lead to other evidence
that will tend to prove or disprove the fact.”  
 
If the
moving party has shown good cause for the requests for production, the burden
is on the objecting party to justify the objections. (Kirkland v. Superior
Court (2002) 95 Cal. App.4th 92, 98.) 
 
II.           
MERITS 
 
Interrogatories

 
The Court finds
Defendant is entitled to further responses to his interrogatories. 
 
On September 20,
2023, Defendant propounded his interrogatories on Plaintiff’s counsel via email
service. (Alami Decl. ¶ 3.) On October 24 ,2023, having received no
responses to discovery, Defendant’s counsel sent a meet and confer letter to Plaintiff’s
counsel. (Alami Decl. ¶ 4, Exh. C.) The meet and confer letter noted that Plaintiff
had waived the right to object to the Form Interrogatories by virtue of failure
to timely respond. (Id.) Defendant also asked that Plaintiff provide
verified responses no later than November 7, 2023, to avoid Court intervention
in the matter. (Id.) Plaintiff’s counsel then served verified discovery
responses on November 9, 2023. (Alami Decl. ¶ 6.) 
 
Defendant argues
Plaintiff’s response to Form Interrogatory No. 4.1, which seeks information
about Plaintiff’s insurance at the time of the incident, is incomplete and
evasive. Plaintiff’s response only stated that he was insured at the time of
the incident without providing any of the requested information about the
insurance policy. (Exh. E.) The Court agrees this response is in incomplete and
requires further response be compelled. 
 
Each of the
remaining Form Interrogatory responses which Defendant argues are insufficient
suffer from the same defect. C.C.P. § 2030.230 requires that where an answer
identifies a document, it must do so with sufficient particularity. Plaintiff
replied to Form Interrogatories Nos. 6.4, 6.5, 10.1, and 20.2 each by
broadly directing Defendant to Plaintiff’s medical records and the police
report for the incident. 
 
Defendant’s Form
Interrogatories Nos. 6.4 and 6.5 both request information regarding Plaintiff’s
medical health care provider and any medication he takes as a result of the
incident. Plaintiff responded to each of these by citing to his submitted
medical records and bills. 
 
Plaintiff’s response
to Form Interrogatory No. 10.1(c), which requests the information of
Plaintiff’s previous health care providers, similarly directs Defendant to the
produced medical records and bills.   Defendant’s Form Interrogatory No. 20.1,
requesting information regarding each vehicle involved in the collision, simply
directs Defendant to the police report for the incident. 
 
The Court finds
Plaintiff’s responses do not identify any specific medical records or bills
which are responsive to this request. Defendant is left to sift among the
produced medical records and bills, which often contain superfluous
information, and guess at which information is responsive to this request. As
such, the Court finds that Defendant’s responses to Form Interrogatories Nos. 6.4, 6.5, 10.1,
and 20.2 are insufficient as per C.C.P. § 2030.230. 
 
Accordingly, the motion to compel further production to Form
Interrogatories Nos. 4.1, 6.4, 6.5, 10.1, and 20.2 is GRANTED. 
 
RFPD 
 
The Court finds
Defendant has shown good cause for the further production of the documents they
request, and that Plaintiff’s statements of compliance were incomplete. 
 
Defendant’s RFPD
Nos. 1-14 each seek documentation directly related to the subject incident. Plaintiff
responded to each RFPD with a statement that responsive documents would be
supplied. However, no responsive documents were attached to their responses.
(Alami Decl. ¶ 7.) Defendant’s counsel offered an additional ten days after
responses were received for Plaintiff to produce documents, but no such
production occurred. (Alami Decl. ¶ 7.) At current, Defendant is left with Plaintiff’s
statement that documents will be produced without any actual documents being
supplied. 
 
The Court notes
that Plaintiff has rendered no opposition to this motion. A failure to oppose a
motion may be deemed a consent to the granting of the motion. (California Rules
of Court, Rule 8.54(c).) Further, on a motion to compel further production Plaintiff
has the burden to justify his objections thereto. Here, Plaintiff has failed to
oppose this motion and failed to justify any objections to production. 
 
Accordingly, the
motion to compel further responses to RFPD Nos. 1-14 is GRANTED. 
 
Sanctions 
 
As concerns motions to compel, the law only requires
sanctions in the event that a party unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to
compel further response. (C.C.P. § 2033.290(d), C.C.P. §¿2030.300(d).) As such,
any monetary sanctions granted are within the discretionary power of the Court
as per C.C.P. § 2030.290. As per C.C.P. § 2023.010(d), failure to respond
constitutes a misuse of the discovery process. Additionally, it is customary to
grant sanctions where a party has filed a motion to compel, and the other party
fails to file an opposition. (C.R.C. Rule 3.1348(a).)  
 
Here, Defendant
has submitted two motions to compel further responses while Plaintiff has
provided no response. As such, the Court awards sanctions in the amount of $702.33.
This amount reflects four hours of attorney work (preparing this motion and
appearing at the hearing) at a rate of $160.17 per hour, plus the $61.65 filing
fee. (Alami Decl. ¶ 9.)  This amount does
not include the time spent preparing a reply, as no opposition was filed. The
Court finds this amount of sanctions appropriate to compensate for the cost of
both motions.  
 
--- 
RULING:
 
In the
event the parties submit on this tentative ruling, or a party requests a signed
order or the court in its discretion elects to sign a formal order, the
following form will be either electronically signed or signed in hard copy and
entered into the court’s records. 
 
ORDER 
 
Brendan Patrick Cyr’s
Motion to Compel Further
Responses came on
regularly for hearing on February 2, 2024, with appearances/submissions as
noted in the minute order for said hearing, and the court, being fully advised
in the premises, did then and there rule as follows: 
 
THE
MOTION TO
COMPEL FURTHER PRODUCTION TO FORM INTERROGATORIES NOS. 4.1, 6.4, 6.5, 10.1, AND
20.2 IS GRANTED. 
 
THE MOTION TO
COMPEL FURTHER RESPONSES TO RFPD NOS. 1-14 IS ALSO GRANTED.
 
FURTHER
PRODUCTION IS ORDERED TO OCCUR WITHIN 30 DAYS. 
 
SANCTIONS
ARE AWARDED FOR DEFENDANT AS AGAINST PLAINTIFF AND PLAINTIFF’S COUNSEL, JOINTLY
AND SEVERALLY, IN THE AMOUNT OF $702.33. 
 
SANCTIONS
ARE TO BE PAID WITHIN 30 DAYS.
 
UNLESS
ALL PARTIES WAIVE NOTICE, DEFENDANT TO PROVIDE NOTICE.
 
IT IS SO
ORDERED.  
 
DATE: February
2, 2024                            _______________________________ 
                                                                   
    F.M.
TAVELMAN, Judge 
Superior Court of California 
County of
Los Angeles 