 Case Number:  22STCV21562    Hearing Date:   December 3, 2024    Dept:  29 Privado v. Aultman
22STCV21562
OSC re Bifurcate or Sever Cross-Complaint for Separate Trial
Tentative
The Court orders the cross-complaint bifurcated and set for a
separate trial.
Background
On July 1, 2022, Plaintiff Kem Privado (“Plaintiff”) filed the
complaint in this action against Defendants Eric Daniel Aultman (“Defendant”)
and Does 1 through 50, asserting causes of action for motor vehicle negligence
and general negligence arising out of an alleged accident on July 8, 2020, at
or near 9020 South Aviation Boulevard in Inglewood, California.
On December 9, 2022, Defendant filed an answer.
On filing, the case was assigned a trial date of December 29,
2023.
In November 2023, the Court, on the stipulation of the
parties, continued the trial date to February 21, 2024; discovery, however,
remained closed.
On December 1, 2023, Defendant filed a cross-complaint against
Michael W. Chu (“Chu”) and Roes 1 through 20. 

Defendant filed the cross-complaint.  In the cross-complaint, Defendant alleges
(among other things) that Chu’s negligence in providing medical treatment to
Plaintiff caused, contributed to, and/or exacerbated Plaintiff’s injuries.
On February 2, 2024, Defendant filed a motion for leave to
file the (already filed) cross-complaint. 
The hearing on the motion was set for May 7, 2024.
On February 6, 2024, Defendant filed a notice of stay of
proceedings based on Defendant’s filing of a bankruptcy petition in the Northern
District of Texas.  The Court in this
action stayed the action, vacated all hearing dates, and set a status
conference for August 5, 2024.
On May 20, 2024, Plaintiff filed a notice that Defendant’s
bankruptcy case was closed and Defendant had received a discharge.
On August 5, 2024, the Court held a status conference and set
the matter for trial on December 4, 2024.
On the same day, August 5, 2024, Defendant filed a declaration
stating that Cross-Defendant Chu was served, by substituted service, on
February 2, 2024.
On September 6, 2024, Defendant filed a motion for leave to
file the (already filed) cross-complaint. 
The hearing was set October 3, 2024. 
The motion was withdrawn by the moving party on September 30.
On October 9, 2024, Defendant filed another motion for leave
to file the (already filed) cross-complaint. 
The hearing was set for November 6.
While the motion was pending, the Court, on October 18, 2024,
denied Defendant’s ex parte application to continue trial and reopen discovery.
On November 6, 2024, the Court denied the motion for
leave.  As set forth in the Minute Order,
the Court noted that the complaint had already been filed, had not been stricken,
and was not subject to any pending motion to strike.
On November 13, 2024, Defendant filed a document entitled “Notice
of Stay of Proceedings.”  The notice was
based on the discharge obtained by Defendant from the bankruptcy court and the
injunction, under federal law, against efforts to collect on discharged debts.  Plaintiff filed an objection on November 14.
On November 20, 2024, the Court held a Final Status
Conference.  Counsel for Plaintiff and
Defendant attended, as did counsel for specially appearing Cross-Defendant
Chu.  The Court continued the Status
Conference to December 2 and advised counsel that, notwithstanding the purported
“Notice of Stay,” the case was not stayed and remained on calendar for trial on
December 4.
Also on November 20, Cross-Defendant Chu filed an ex parte
application to quash service of the summons of the cross-complaint.  On November 22, the Court denied the
application without prejudice to Cross-Defendant filing a noticed motion.  
The Court also, on its own motion set an Order to Show Cause
Why the Court Should Not Bifurcate or Sever the Cross-Complaint for a Separate
Trial.  The Court set a briefing schedule
and set the OSC for hearing on December 3, 2024.
Defendant filed an opposition to the OSC on November 26.  Plaintiff filed a brief in support of the OSC
on November 27.  Cross-Defendant Chu
filed a notice of non-opposition on November 27.
Legal Standard
Code of Civil Procedure section 1048, subdivision (b),
provides in relevant part:
“The court, in furtherance of convenience or to avoid
prejudice, or when separate trials will be conducive to expedition and economy,
may order a separate trial of any cause of action, including a cause of action
asserted in a cross-complaint, or of any separate issue or of any number of causes
of action or issues ….”
“[T]he court has inherent power to regulate the order of
trial, and therefore can order separate trials of causes of action or issues
pursuant to [section] 1048 at any time, even during the trial itself.”  3 Weil & Brown, California Practice Guide:
Civil Procedure Before Trial (2024), ¶ 12:420.
“It is within the discretion of the court to bifurcate issues
or order separate trials of actions … and to determine the order in which those
issues are to be decided.”   (Royal Surplus Lines Ins. Co. v. Ranger
Ins. Co. (2002) 100 Cal.App.4th 193, 205; accord (Antelope Valley
Groundwater Cases (2020) 59 Cal.App.5th 241, 273; Huff v. Securitas
Security Services USA (2018) 23 Cal.App.5th 745, 762.)  Long standing case law recognizes that trial courts
have broad discretion to decide whether a complaint and a cross-complaint
should be tried together or separately. 
(E.g., Roylance v. Doelger (1962) 57 Cal.2d 255, 262; Bank of
Orient v. Super. Ct. (1977) 67 Cal.App.3d 588, 597.)
Discussion
Plaintiff seeks to recover from Defendant for the serious injuries
that Plaintiff alleges he sustained as a result of a vehicle accident.  Defendant contends that Plaintiff’s injuries
were caused, in whole or in part, by negligent medical treatment by
Cross-Defendant Chu.
There are plainly both efficiencies and inefficiencies associated
with a single trial that includes both the complaint and cross-complaint.  In a single trial, there would be only one
proceeding in which a single jury (presumably) would determine the extent of
Plaintiff’s injuries and allocate fault as between Plaintiff, Defendant, and
Cross-Defendant.  In separate trials, in
contrast, there would be some repetition of evidence, as well as some risk of
inconsistent determinations. 
In a single trial, however, there would be a lengthy presentation
of evidence regarding the quality of medical care provided by Cross-Defendant
Chu.  Plaintiff made the decision to
pursue a streamlined case against only Defendant, and not to litigate the
potential medical malpractice claim against Chu, which is likely to be complicated,
technical, and heavily reliant on experts. 
But in a single trial, Plaintiff would be forced to sit through (and
have his counsel sit through) this testimony; this testimony would be lengthy
and potentially distracting, and Plaintiff presumably sought to avoid this by
bringing causes of action against only Defendant.  
In considering whether to order separate trials, the Court
must balance a number of interests, including efficiency and prejudice.  If Defendant had pursued the cross-complaint
with diligence, the balancing of interests would likely have led to a different
result.  But Defendant did not pursue the
cross-complaint diligently.  To the
contrary, Defendant waited more than a year – until after discovery had closed –
even to file the cross-complaint.  This appears
to have been nothing less than a stalling tactic by Defendant, an effort to
obtain a further continuance of the trial.
As a direct result of Defendant’s delay tactics, if the Court
were not to order separate trials, there would now be a need for another continuance
of the trial date.  Moreover, it would
need to be a lengthy continuance: Cross-Defendant has not even answered yet,
and there would presumably need to be a continuance of at least 6-9 months (if
not longer) for the pleadings to be settled, for the cross-complaint to be at
issue, and for discovery on the cross-complaint to be completed.  Plaintiff is seeking compensation for very
serious injuries, and such a lengthy further continuance would certainly cause prejudice
to him.  
The Court, in contrast, gives little weight to Defendant’s
claims of prejudice.  If separate trials
are ordered, all of Defendant’s substantive rights will be preserved.  There may be some small amount of additional
litigation costs that Defendant will incur, but, whether there is one trial or
two, the bulk of these costs – including discovery and trial of the malpractice
claim – would need to be incurred in any event. 
And, it bears noting, any additional litigation costs that Defendant
will incur are the result of its own delay in prosecuting the cross-complaint.  As between Plaintiff and Defendant, it is
appropriate for the prejudice to fall on Defendant, whose delay has placed the parties
in this situation.
After careful consideration of the written submissions of the
parties, the Court exercises its discretion to order that this action be
bifurcated and that the cross-complaint be set for a separate trial.  The trial date of December 4, 2024, stands
for the trial of Plaintiff’s complaint.
Conclusion
The Court BIFURCATES this action and SETS THE CROSS-COMPLAINT
for a separate trial.
The trial date of December 4, 2024, stands for trial of
Plaintiff’s complaint.
The Court SETS a Trial Setting Conference in approximately 60
days for the separate trial on the cross-complaint.
The Court orders Plaintiff to give notice.