  Case Number:  19STCV16639    Hearing Date:   December 3, 2024    Dept:  29 Pope-Morgan v Chen
19STCV16639
Plaintiffs’ Motion for Order Admitting Stephen D. Morrison, III, Esq. as
counsel pro hac vice 
Tentative
The motion is granted.
Background
Plaintiffs Angela Pope-Morgan, Asia Morgan,
Alma Morgan, Kirk Morgan, and Sarah Morgan (“Plaintiffs”) allege that they were
injured on May 12, 2017, in a collision with a motor vehicle driven by
Defendant Leilei Chen on Interstate I-40 in New Mexico. 
On May 13, 2019, Plaintiffs filed the
Complaint in this action against Defendants Leilei Chen, FBM Group Corporation
(collectively, “Defendants”), and Does 1 through 25. 
Plaintiffs filed the First Amended Complaint
(“FAC”) on August 13, 2019. 
Defendants filed their Answer to the FAC on
September 6, 2019.
On January 5, 2023, the court, at the request
of Plaintiff Alma Morgan, dismissed the causes of action in the FAC asserted by
Plaintiff Alma Morgan with prejudice.
On November
1, 2024, Plaintiffs filed this motion for Stephen D. Morrison, III, Esq. to be
admitted pro hac vice. 
 
No
opposition has been filed.
 
Legal Standard
 
Any
attorney licensed to practice before the bar of any United States court or the
highest court in any state, and who has been retained to appear in a particular
cause pending a court of this State, but who is not a licensee of the
California State Bar may apply to appear pro hac vice in this State by
submitting his or her written application and mailing notice to all interested
parties, as well as notice and a $50.00 application fee to the State Bar
Association in San Francisco.  (Cal.
Rules of Court, Rule 9.40 (a), (c), (e).) 
An applicant may neither reside nor work in California and may not
perform regular or substantial business, professional, or other activities in
the State.  (Id. at Rule 9.40
(a).)  
 
Discussion
 
Plaintiffs
have satisfied all substantive and procedural requirements for the motion.
 
The
motion is granted.
 
Conclusion
 
The Court GRANTS Plaintiff’s motion for counsel Stephen
D. Morrison, III, Esq. to be admitted pro hac vice. 
 
Moving party to give notice.