  Case Number:  23GDCV01391    Hearing Date:   April 18, 2024    Dept:  3 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - NORTHEAST
DISTRICT
 



LIDA ZOHRABIANS, BY AND THROUGH HER SUCCESSOR IN INTEREST,
   ANAHID MINASKANIAN, et al., 
                    Plaintiff(s),
          vs.
 
CENTRAL CONVALESCENT
   HOSPITAL OF GLENDALE INC. DBA CHANDLER CONVALESCENT, et al.,
 
                    Defendant(s).


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


      CASE NO.: 23GDCV01391
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: DEFENDANTS DEMURRER AND MOTION TO STRIKE
 
Dept.
  3
8:30
  a.m.
April
   18, 2024



 
I.      INTRODUCTION
         On July 5,
2024, plaintiff Anahid Minaskanian (“Plaintiff”), individually and as
successor-in-interest of Lida Zohrabians (“Zohrabians”), filed this action
against defendants Central Convalescent Hospital of Glendale Inc. dba Chandler
Convalescent Hospital (“Facility”) (erroneously sued as “Central Convalescent
Hospital of Glendale Inc. dba Chandler Convalescent Hospital-Glendale” and
“Chestnut Ridge Post Acute LLC dba Chandler Convalescent Hospital-Glendale”)
and Renew Health Consulting Services (“Management”). Plaintiff also named
Vartan Vartanians and Mary Boudaghians as nominal defendants. The complaint
asserts causes of action for: (1) elder abuse and neglect (Welfare &
Institutions Code section 15600 et seq.), (2) violations of Residents’ Bill of
Rights (Health & Safety Code section 1430(b), (3) negligence, and (4)
wrongful death. 
          On
November 28, 2023, Facility and Management (collectively, “Defendants”) filed a
demurrer and motion to strike. Defendants argue that Plaintiff’s causes of
action for elder abuse, violation of Residents’ Bill of Rights, and wrongful
death are insufficiently pled. Defendants move to strike Plaintiff’s prayer for
attorney fees, punitive damages, and exemplary damages, as well as allegations about
previous notices of deficiencies issued by the “DPH” (which Plaintiff does not
define, but the Court presume refers to the “California Department of Public
Health”). 
          Plaintiffs
filed opposition briefs on March 14, 2024. 
          Defendants
filed reply briefs on March 20, 2024. 
II.     LEGAL
STANDARDS
A.  
Demurrer
A demurrer may be brought if
insufficient facts are stated to support the cause of action asserted. (Code
Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subd. (e).) A demurrer tests the legal sufficiency of the
pleadings and will be sustained only where the pleading is defective on its
face. (City of Atascadero v. Merrill
Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith, Inc. (1998) 68 Cal.App.4th 445, 459.)
“We treat the demurrer as admitting all material facts properly pleaded but not
contentions, deductions or conclusions of fact or law. We accept the factual
allegations of the complaint as true and also consider matters which may be
judicially noticed. [Citation.]” (Mitchell
v. California Department of Public Health (2016) 1 Cal.App.5th 1000, 1007; Del E. Webb Corp. v. Structural Materials
Co. (1981) 123 Cal.App.3d 593, 604 [“the facts alleged in the pleading are
deemed to be true, however improbable they may be”].) Allegations are to be
liberally construed. (Code Civ. Proc., § 452.) In construing the allegations,
the court is to give effect to specific factual allegations that may modify or
limit inconsistent general or conclusory allegations. (Financial Corporation of America v. Wilburn (1987) 189 Cal.App.3rd
764, 769.) 
B.  
Motion
to Strike
          Any party,
within the time allowed to respond to a pleading may serve and file a notice of
motion to strike the whole or any part thereof. (Code Civ. Proc., § 435, subd.
(b)(1).) The court may, upon a motion, or at any time in its discretion, and
upon terms it deems proper, strike any irrelevant, false, or improper matter
inserted in any pleading. (Code Civ. Proc., § 436, subd. (a); Stafford v. Shultz (1954) 42 Cal.2d 767,
782 [“Matter in a pleading which is not essential to the claim is surplusage;
probative facts are surplusage and may be stricken out or disregarded”].) The
court may also strike all or any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in
conformity with California law, a court rule, or an order of the court. (Code
Civ. Proc., § 436, subd. (b).) An immaterial or irrelevant allegation is one
that is not essential to the statement of a claim or defense; is neither
pertinent to nor supported by an otherwise sufficient claim or defense; or a
demand for judgment requesting relief not supported by the allegations of the
complaint. (Code Civ. Proc., § 431.10, subd. (b).) The grounds for moving to
strike must appear on the face of the pleading or by way of judicial notice.
(Code Civ. Proc., § 437.)
III.    DISCUSSION
A.  
Demurrer
1.  
Allegations
of the Complaint 
From on or about July 13, 2022, to
August 4, 2022, Facility provided care or services to Zohrabians. (Complaint at
¶ 17, 25.) Upon admission, Zohrabians was “alert but had periods of
forgetfulness and short term memory issues.” (Compl., ¶ 18.) Zohrabians also
needed assistance with all of her activities of daily living, including
dressing, personal hygiene, transferring, toilet use, eating, and bed mobility;
she was also occasionally incontinent. (Compl., ¶ 18.) Defendants allegedly identified
that Zohrabians was at a high risk of falls based upon the medications she was
taking, poor safety awareness, and problems with her balance and memory. Plaintiff
alleges that Defendants knew they needed to ensure that Zohrabians’s call
lights were answered promptly and put her on a toileting schedule, among other
things. (Compl., ¶ 19.) However, Plaintiff alleges that Zohrabians experienced
significant delays when she attempted to use her call light for assistance to
use the restroom. (Compl., ¶ 21.) 
On August 4, 2022, at approximately
7:40 a.m. Zohrabians suffered an unwitnessed fall. (Compl., ¶ 22.) Zohrabians
“was attributed with stating she got up because she needed to use the
restroom.” (Compl., ¶ 23.) Plaintiff alleges Defendants had also moved
Zohrabians to a new room and Defendants were aware this move could cause Plaintiff
to suffer confusion and disorientation and need closer monitoring and
supervision. (Compl. ¶ 24.) Following the fall, Plaintiff had a bump on her
head and was in significant pain. (Compl., ¶ 25.) She was transferred to the
hospital where she was diagnosed with a hip fracture and underwent surgery, but
passed away on August 14, 2022, due to “[t]he trauma of the surgery and her
subsequent condition.” (Compl., ¶ 25.)  
2.  
First
Cause of Action for Elder Abuse and Neglect 
Plaintiff’s first cause of action for
elder abuse and neglect is brought on Zohrabians’s behalf pursuant to the Elder
Abuse and Dependent Adult Civil Protection Act (“EADACPA”) Welfare and
Institutions Code section 15600 et. seq. "The Act [i.e. The Elder Abuse
and Dependent Adult Civil Protection Act] does not create a cause of action as
such, but provides for attorney fees, costs and punitive damages under certain
conditions. (ARA Living Centers-Pacific, Inc. v. Superior Court (1993)
18 Cal.App.4th 1556, 1563-1564, 23 Cal.Rptr.2d 224; see Welf. & Inst. Code,
§ 15657.) Abuse of a dependent adult or elder will justify heightened remedies
when the cause of action includes facts showing the following: “(a) Physical
abuse, neglect, financial abuse, abandonment, isolation, abduction, or other
treatment with resulting physical harm or pain or mental suffering[; or] [¶]
(b) The deprivation by a care custodian of goods or services that are necessary
to avoid physical harm or mental suffering.” (Welf. & Inst. Code, §
15610.07.) Acts of simple or even gross negligence will not justify the
additional civil damage remedies. (Covenant Care, Inc. v. Superior Court
(2004) 32 Cal.4th 771, 783-785 (“Covenant Care”).) Where the elder or
dependent adult has died, the neglect or abuse resulting in pain or mental
suffering must amount to recklessness, oppression, fraud or malice, in order to
justify the heightened remedies. (Mack v. Soung (2000) 80 Cal.App.4th
966, 972.) A claim under the Elder Abuse Act must be pled with particularity. (Covenant
Care, supra, 32 Cal.4th at p. 790.
Plaintiff does not allege acts
amounting to “recklessness, oppression, fraud, or malice” or a significant
pattern of withholding care from Zohrabians. Plaintiff alleges that Zohrabians
experienced “significant delays” when using her call light for assistance to
use the restroom “[d]uring the course of her residency, which appears to have
lasted almost 3 weeks, but only describes one such incident which allegedly led
to Zohrabian falling. (Compl., ¶¶ 21-25; see Sababin v. Superior Court
(2006) 144 Cal.App.4th 81, 90.) 
Plaintiff’s allegations of minimum
staffing ratios, care plans, or policies are also conclusory insofar as they
are supposed to show that care was withheld from Zohrabians. Plaintiff alleges
no facts explaining how understaffing actually caused harm to Zohrabians. In
fact, Plaintiff alleges that Zohrabians was seen by a staff member 15 minutes
before the fall but was “not assisted to the restroom or asked if she needed to
use the restroom.” (Compl., ¶¶ 22-23.) This omission does not amount to elder
abuse, but professional negligence. 
Furthermore, when an elder abuse claim
is brought against a corporate defendant, the plaintiff must further allege
that an officer, director or managing agent committed, authorized or ratified
the abuse or neglect. (Welf. & Inst. Code § 15657(c); Civ. Code § 3294.)
Plaintiff alleges that Facility’s administrator or “other managing agent” had
knowledge of Defendants’ “neglectful care”, failure to provide adequate
supervision, a “hazard-free environment to prevent accidents”, understaffing,
and “failure to honor resident’s rights.” (Compl., ¶¶ 42-43.) But the identity
of the administrator or “other managing agent” is not alleged with specificity.

Therefore, Defendants’ demurrer to the
First Cause of Action is SUSTAINED.  
3.  
Second
Cause of Action for Violation of Residents’ Bill of Rights
Health & Safety Code § 1430 (b)
allows for a private right of action “against the licensee of a facility who
violates any rights of the resident or patient as set forth in the Patient’s
Bill of Rights in Section 72527 of Title 22 of the California Code of
Regulations, or any other right provided for by federal or state law or
regulation...” Defendants argue that Plaintiff fails to allege any facts
sufficient to state a cause of action because there are no allegations
identifying the specific rights which were violated and the manner in which
they were violated. 
Plaintiff alleged that Facility
violated Health & Safety Code § 1599.1 (a) and California Code of
Regulations § 72329.1(a) (g)(1), which requires Facility to ensure the
provision of sufficient numbers of qualified personnel to appropriately staff
the facility and care for her needs. (Complaint, ¶ 73(a).) As stated above in
the discussion of Plaintiff’s claim for elder abuse, Plaintiff alleges no
causal connection between alleged understaffing and Zohrabians’ care. 
Similarly, Plaintiff alleges that
Defendants violated Zohrabians’s right to adequate supervision and assistance
devices to ensure a hazard free environment pursuant to Code of Federal Regulations
§ 483.25(d). But despite alleging a duty to “ensure her environment was clear
and safe”, there are no factual allegations that inadequate supervision, lack
of assistance devices, or any hazardous environment condition contributed to
Zohrabians’s fall. (Compl., ¶ 19.)
Plaintiff also alleged that Defendants
violated Zohrabians’s rights by failing to have a care plan developed,
implemented, reviewed, and updated as required by California Code of
Regulations § 72311(a)(1)(B), (a)(1)(C), and (a)(2). (Complaint ¶ 73(c).) But
Plaintiff’s allegations are conclusory and incomplete, if not contradictory.
First, with respect to the claim that Zohrabians did not have a care plan
developed, the Complaint states that “other care plans were written to address
[Zohrabians]’s occasional incontinence of bowel and bladder and cognitive
communication deficits.” (Compl., ¶ 20.) Second, Plaintiff claims Zohrabians was
“supposed to be assessed” for participation in a toileting program and having a
toileting schedule set, yet also alleges that Defendants “knew they needed to .
. . put [Zohrabians] on a toileting schedule” (without stating the source of
this knowledge). (Compl., ¶¶ 19-21.) This allegation of knowledge is vague and
unsupported by facts; further, it is unclear whether Plaintiff is alleging that
the care plans written specified that Zohrabians needed assistance to the
toilet up on waking, after meals, and at bed time, or merely that Zohrabians
was to be assessed to determine whether such assistance was necessary. Last, Plaintiff
does not allege facts supporting the claim that the care plans were supposed to
be reviewed and updated, especially as Zohrabians’s residency barely lasted 3
weeks.  
          Accordingly,
Defendants’ demurrer to the Second Cause of Action is SUSTAINED. 
4.  
Fourth
Cause of Action for Wrongful Death
Defendants argue that Plaintiff’s wrongful
death claim is expressly contradicted by Zohrabians’s death certificate. Defendants
claim that they cannot be liable for Zohrabians’s death because her death
certificate states that the cause of death was a cardiopulmonary arrest due to
a stroke and identifies other significant cconditions including liver failure,
heart failure, and non-alcoholic liver cirrhosis. Defendants argue that
Plaintiff does not sufficiently allege a causal connection between Zohrabians’s
fall and her death which occurred 10 days later. 
This argument is unpersuasive.
Plaintiff adequately alleges that Zohrabians sustained a hip fracture as a
result of the fall and had to undergo surgery for the fracture. (Compl., ¶ 25.)
Plaintiff also alleges that “[t]he trauma of the surgery and her subsequent
condition proved to be too much” and Zohrabians passed away shortly after. (Ibid.)
At the pleadings stage, this is sufficient to allege a causal connection
between Zohrabians’ fall and Defendants’ alleged neglect. Whether Zohrabians
had comorbidities which were the true cause of her death is an issue of fact. 
          The demurrer
to the Fourth Cause of Action is OVERRULED.  
B.  
Motion
to Strike
Defendants move to strike Plaintiff’s
claim for punitive damages and attorneys’ fees, which are only requested within
the context of the First and Second Causes of Action. As the Court sustains
Defendants’ demurrer to these causes of action, the motion to strike the
request for punitive damages and attorneys’ fees is moot. 
Defendants also seek to strike
references to the investigations and findings of the Department of Public
Health (“DPH”) within paragraphs 42, 43, 53, and 54 of the complaint.
Defendants argue that these investigations and findings are irrelevant as “lay
opinions.” The Court does not agree or disagree with this characterization at
this juncture, but instead finds that the references should be stricken as irrelevant
because Plaintiff alleges that the DPH’s findings “are appropriate in
determining whether Defendants’ conduct amounted to elder or dependent adult
abuse and neglect.” Again, as the Court sustains Defendants’ demurrer to the
elder abuse claim, these references are now irrelevant. Therefore, Defendants’
motion to strike the references to DPH’s findings of deficiencies in paragraphs
42, 43, 53, and 54 is GRANTED. 
IV.    CONCLUSION
Defendants’ demurrer is SUSTAINED with
20 days’ leave to amend as to the First and Second Causes of Action.
Defendants’ demurrer to the Fourth Cause of Action is OVERRULED. 
Defendants’ motion to strike the
references to DPH is GRANTED. Defendants’ motion to strike Plaintiff’s claim
for punitive damages and attorneys’ fees is moot. 
Moving party to give notice.
 
 
Dated
this 18th
day of April
2024
 




 


 




 


William A. Crowfoot 
Judge of the Superior Court
 




 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at ALHDEPT3@lacourt.org indicating
intention to submit on the tentative as directed by the instructions provided
on the court website at www.lacourt.org. Please be advised that if you submit
on the tentative and elect not to appear at the hearing, the opposing party may
nevertheless appear at the hearing and argue the matter. Unless you receive a
submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume that others
might appear at the hearing to argue. If the Court does not receive emails from
the parties indicating submission on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may, at its discretion, adopt the
tentative as the final order or place the motion off calendar.
 