 Case Number:  24STCP01812    Hearing Date:   July 12, 2024    Dept:  53 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles – Central District
Department
53
 
 




grant | shenon, a
   professional law corporation

   ;
 
Petitioner,
 
 
vs.
 
 
lawrence deutsch

   , et al.;
 
Respondents.


Case
  No.:


24STCP01812




 


 




Hearing
  Date:


July
   12, 2024




 


 




Time:





   10:00 a.m.




 


 




 
[tentative]
  Order RE:
 
petition to confirm arbitration award
 



 
MOVING PARTY:                 Petitioner Grant | Shenon, a
Professional Law Corporation    
 
RESPONDING PARTY:       Unopposed
Petition to Confirm Arbitration Award
The court
considered the moving papers filed in connection with this petition.  No opposition papers were filed.  
DISCUSSION
Petitioner Grant | Shenon, a Professional Law Corporation
(“Petitioner”) moves the court for an order confirming the final arbitration
award issued by arbitrators Michael J. Zuckerman, Setrak Attarian, and Sarkis
Jacob Babachanian, in the arbitration between Petitioner and respondents
Lawrence Deutsch and Jacob Deutsch (“Respondents”).
The court finds that Petitioner has not properly served Respondents
with this petition and the supporting papers. 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 1290.4, subd. (b)(1).) 
“Section 1290.4, subdivision (b) of the Code of Civil Procedure . . .
set[s] forth service requirements for a ‘petition’ under the contractual
arbitration law[,]” including a petition to confirm, correct, or vacate an
arbitration award.  (Miranda v. 21st
Century Ins. Co. (2004) 117 Cal.App.4th 913, 928.)  This statute provides that service shall be
made “in the manner provided in the arbitration agreement for the service of
such petition and notice.”  (Code Civ.
Proc., § 1290.4, subd. (a).)  If the
arbitration agreement does not provide for the manner of such service, and if
the person upon whom service is to be made has not previously appeared in the
proceeding, then “[s]ervice within this State shall be made in the manner
provided by law for the service of summons in an action.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 1290.4, subd.
(b)(1).) 
Respondents have not yet appeared in this action and appear to reside
in California.  (Grant Decl., Ex. B,
Arbitration Award, p. 3 [proof of service on Respondents at California
address].)  Moreover, Petitioner did not
identify a provision in the parties’ arbitration agreement setting forth the
manner of service of a petition to confirm an arbitration award.[1]  Thus, Petitioner was required to serve
Respondents with this petition and the notice of hearing on the petition in the
manner provided by law for the service of summons in an action.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 1290.4, subd. (b)(1).) 
“A summons may be served by personal delivery of a copy of the summons
and of the complaint to the person to be served.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 415.10.)  If the summons and complaint cannot, with
reasonable diligence, be personally delivered to the person to be served, “a
summons may be served by leaving a copy of the summons and complaint at the
person’s dwelling house, usual place of abode, usual place of business, or
usual mailing address . . . in the presence of a competent member of the
household or a person apparently in charge of his or her office, place of
business, or usual mailing address . . . at least 18 years of age, who shall be
informed of the contents thereof, and by thereafter mailing a copy of the
summons and of the complaint by first-class mail, postage prepaid to the person
to be served at the place where a copy of the summons and complaint were
left.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 415.20, subd.
(b).) 
Petitioner attached a proof of service to the petition stating that
Respondents were served with its Notice of Petition to Confirm Arbitration
Award and the proposed order by mail and by email.  (Pet., pp. 49-50.)  Petitioner did not file any other proofs of
service establishing service on Respondents of the petition and the notice of
the hearing thereon.  Thus, the court
finds that Petitioner has not served Respondents with the petition and the
notice of hearing on the petition “in the manner provided by law for the
service of summons in an action” because Petitioner did not serve Respondents
(1) by personal service, or (2) by substituted service.  (Ibid.; Code Civ. Proc., § 1290.4,
subd. (b)(1).) 
The court therefore denies Petitioner’s petition to confirm the
arbitration award, without prejudice to Petitioner’s filing an amended petition
and serving Respondents with the amended petition in the same manner as service
of summons.
ORDER
            The court denies petitioner Grant |
Shenon, a Professional Law Corporation’s petition to confirm arbitration award,
without prejudice.
            The court orders petitioner Grant |
Shenon, a Professional Law Corporation to give notice of this ruling.
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
DATED:  July 12, 2024
 
_____________________________
Robert
B. Broadbelt III
Judge
of the Superior Court


