  Case Number:  23STCV21848    Hearing Date:   July 12, 2024    Dept:  53 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles – Central District
Department
53
 
 




immigrant rights defense
   council, llc

   ;
 


   Plaintiff,
 
 
vs.
 
 
laura e. vaca

   , et al.;
 


   Defendants.


Case
  No.:


23STCV21848




 


 




Hearing
  Date:


July
   12, 2024




 


 




Time:





   10:00 a.m.




 


 




 
[tentative]
  Order RE:
 
specially appearing defendant’s motion to
  quash service of summons
 



 
MOVING PARTY:                 Specially appearing defendant
Edward Lasseville    
 
RESPONDING PARTY:       Plaintiff Immigrant Rights Defense Council, LLC
Motion to Quash Service of Summons
The court
considered the moving, opposition, and reply papers filed in connection with
this motion. 
DISCUSSION
Specially appearing defendant Edward Lasseville (“Defendant”) moves
the court for an order quashing service of the summons and complaint by
plaintiff Immigrant Rights Defense Council, LLC (“Plaintiff”). 
“A
defendant, on or before the last day of his or her time to plead or within any
further time that the court may for good cause allow, may serve and file a
notice of motion for one or more of the following purposes: [¶] (1) To quash
service of summons on the ground of lack of jurisdiction of the court over him
or her.”  (Code Civ. Proc., §¿418.10, subd. (a)(1).)  “[A] motion to
quash under section 418.10, subdivision (a)(1) is a limited procedural tool to
contest personal jurisdiction over the defendant where the statutory
requirements for service of process are not fulfilled.”  (Stancil v.
Superior Court (2021) 11 Cal.5th 381, 390.)  
As a threshold matter, the court notes that Defendant appears to
request several forms of relief based on various grounds.  Specifically, Defendant appears to contend
that (1) the summons is invalid because (i) the person to whom the documents
were delivered did not have authority to accept documents on his behalf, and
(ii) the First Amended Complaint was not mailed to him; (2) the court does not
have subject matter jurisdiction over this action because Plaintiff does not
have standing; and (3) the Immigration Consultant Act is void for vagueness.  For the reasons set forth below, the court
finds that Defendant has not shown that the court should quash service of the
summons and complaint on these grounds.
First, the court finds that (1) Defendant has not met his burden to
rebut the statutory presumption of substituted service as to the statements
made establishing that the process server left the summons and operative
complaint with the receptionist at Defendant’s usual place of business, and (2)
Plaintiff has met its burden to prove, by a preponderance of the evidence, that
all jurisdictional criteria have been met.  
On June 25, 2024, Plaintiff filed a proof of service of summons
stating that Defendant was served with the summons and the First Amended
Complaint by substituted service on March 4, 2024, at 2407 Randolph Street,
Huntington Park, California, by leaving the documents with Jane Doe, Receptionist,
“a person at least 18 years of age apparently in charge at the office or usual
place of business of the person to be served.” 
(June 25, 2024 POS-010, p. 1, ¶¶ 2-4 and 5, subd. (b).)  Attached to the proof of service is a
“Declaration of Diligence,” in which the process server attests to making three
unsuccessful attempts to personally serve Defendant on February 12, 2024,
February 16, 2024, and February 21, 2024. 
(June 25, 2024 POS-010, p. 3, MC-031, ¶¶ 1-3.)  Also attached to the proof of service is a
“Declaration of Mailing,” in which Melissa Berry (a person other than the
process server that delivered the summons and operative complaint) states that
she mailed copies of the summons and the First Amended Complaint to Defendant
at the address of service on March 4, 2024. 
(June 25, 2024 POS-010, p. 4, MC-031.) 
The court finds that Defendant has not met his burden to show that Plaintiff
did not properly serve him by substituted service on the ground that the
receptionist did not have authority to accept documents on Defendant’s behalf. 
Because the proof of service establishing the delivery of documents to
a person apparently in charge of the usual place of business was completed and
signed by a registered process server, there is a rebuttable presumption of the
facts stated therein.  (June 25, 2024
POS-010, p. 2, ¶ 7, subd. (e)(3).)  Evid.
Code, § 647 [“The return of a process server registered pursuant to Chapter 16
(commencing with Section 22350) of Division 8 of the Business and Professions
Code upon process or notice establishes a presumption, affecting the burden of
producing evidence, of the facts stated in the return”].)  Thus, Defendant was “required to produce
evidence that he was not served.”  (America
Express Centurion Bank v. Zara (2011) 199 Cal.App.4th 383, 390.)  As set forth above, the court finds that
Defendant has not met that burden. 
“If
a copy of the summons and complaint cannot with reasonable diligence be
personally delivered to the person to be served, as specified in Section
416.60, 416.70, 416.80, or 416.90, a summons may be served by leaving a copy of
the summons and complaint at the person’s dwelling house, usual place of abode,
usual place of business, or usual mailing address other than a United States
Postal Service post office box, in the presence of a competent member of the
household or a person apparently in charge of his or her office, place of
business, or usual mailing address other than a United States post office box,
at least 18 years of age, who shall be informed of the contents thereof, and by
thereafter mailing a copy of the summons and of the complaint by first-class
mail, postage prepaid to the person to be served at the place where a copy of
the summons and complaint were left.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 415.20, subd.
(b).)  
Defendant
has submitted the declaration of the person with whom the documents were left,
Hidali Renteria, the receptionist for nonmoving defendant Agencia Privada de
Inmigracion, Inc. (“API”), in which Renteria states that (1) she is a
receptionist for API; (2) on March 4, 2024 the process server entered API’s
location at 2407 Randolph Street, Huntington Park, California; (3) Renteria
informed the process server that she was not authorized to accept the documents
without nonmoving defendant Laura Vaca “knowing more or being present[;]” and
(4) despite this representation, the process server “dropped the papers on the
counter in front of [Renteria] and left.” 
(Renteria Decl., p. 1.)  
As set
forth above, a summons and complaint may be served by leaving a copy of those
documents at the person’s usual place of business “in the presence of a
competent member of the household or a person apparently in charge of his or
her office[ or] place of business. . . .” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 415.20, subd. (b).)  Defendant did not present argument or evidence
establishing that Renteria—as the receptionist for API and at least 18 years of
age—was not a person “apparently in charge” of the place of business.  (Ibid; Renteria Decl., p. 1 [“I am
over the age of 18 years”].)  Moreover,
Defendant’s evidence does not appear to dispute that the process server
delivered these documents to Defendant’s place of business as stated in the
proof of service.  (Renteria Decl., p. 1
[the process server dropped the papers on the counter in front of Renteria].) 
The court notes that Defendant also stated, in his declaration, that
his “former place of employment’s business address was 2407 Randolph
Street, Huntington Park, California,” i.e., the location at which service was
made.  (Lasseville Decl., p. 1:3-4
[emphasis added].)  Defendant did not
argue, in his moving papers, that this address is not his “usual place of
business. . . .”  (Code Civ. Proc., §
415.20, subd. (b).)  However, to the
extent that Defendant has attempted to raise such an argument, the court finds
that the characterization of this address as his former place of employment,
without more, is insufficient to show that 2407 Randolph Street is not his
usual place of business.  Defendant did
not, for example, state that, as of the date of service, he no longer worked
for API at that address.  
Moreover, Plaintiff has presented evidence that supports its assertion
that, at the time of service, 2407 Randolph Street was Defendant’s usual place
of business.  (Opp., Ex. 4, p. 1 [State
of California, Office of Secretary of State, Statement of Information
Corporation for API Properties, Inc., listing Defendant as an officer,
director, and agent for service of process with the address 2407 Randolph
Street, Huntington Park, California, 90255]; Opp., Ex. 5, p. 3 [proof of
service signed by Defendant, dated November 10, 2023, stating that his business
address is 2407 Randolph Street, Huntington Park, California, 90255].) 
As to the
requirement that the documents be mailed, the court finds that Plaintiff
has met its burden to prove that it satisfied that jurisdictional requirement
for substituted service.[1]  (Code Civ. Proc., § 415.20, subd. (b); Brown v. Garcia (2017)
17 Cal.App.5th 1198, 1203 [“‘On a motion to quash service of summons, the
plaintiff bears the burden of proving by a preponderance of the evidence that
all jurisdictional criteria are met’”].)  
Although
the declaration of mailing was not signed by a registered process server, the
court finds that the declaration of mailing, which was signed under penalty of
perjury, is credible evidence establishing that Plaintiff “thereafter mail[ed]
a copy of the summons and complaint by first-class mail, postage prepaid” to
Defendant at his usual place of business. 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 415.20, subd. (b); June 25, 2024 POS-010, p. 4,
MC-031.)  The court notes that both
Renteria and Defendant have stated, in their declarations, that they have not
received a copy of the summons and First Amended Complaint in the mail at this
API’s address.  (Renteria Decl., p. 2 [“I
have not seen anything arrive in the mail addressed to [Defendant] regarding
this case.  I would know because I am the
person that handles incoming mail”]; Lasseville Decl., p. 1:11 [“I have never
received a copy of the first amended complaint by mail in this case”].)  However, those assertions do not establish
that Plaintiff did not mail the documents to Defendant as required, only that
Defendant did not receive those documents. 
Receipt of the summons and complaint by mail is not a requirement for
substituted service; instead, section 415.20 requires only that Plaintiff mail those
documents.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 415.20,
subd. (b).)  The court finds that the
declaration of mailing establishes that Plaintiff mailed the documents to
Defendant at his usual place of business as required.  Moreover, the court recognizes that
“[s]tatutes governing substitute service shall be liberally construed to
effectuate service and uphold jurisdiction if actual notice has been received
by the defendant . . . .”  (Hearn v.
Howard (2009) 177 Cal.App.4th 1193, 1201 [internal quotations and citations
omitted].)  There is no dispute that
Defendant has actual notice of this action. 
            Second,
the court finds that Defendant has not properly challenged the court’s subject
matter jurisdiction in connection with the pending motion to quash service of
summons. 
            Defendant
has argued that the court does not have subject matter jurisdiction of this
action because Plaintiff lacks standing. 
(Mot., pp. 12:6-15:15.)  However,
a challenge to the subject matter jurisdiction of a court “may not . . . be
made in a ‘special appearance’ by a motion to quash service of summons.”  (Greener v. Workers’ Comp. Appeals Bd. (1993)
6 Cal.4th 1028, 1036.)  Further, while
the court recognizes that such a challenge may be permissible in a hybrid
motion to quash and to dismiss, Defendant did not file such a “hybrid motion”
to quash service of summons and to dismiss the action for lack of subject
matter jurisdiction.  (Boisclair v.
Superior Court (1990) 51 Cal.3d 1140, 1144, n. 1.)  Instead, Defendant’s notice of motion states
that he is moving to quash the summons and to contest the jurisdiction of the
court “due to a failure to serve summons as required by Code Civ. Proc. §
415.20 as the manner so attempted.” 
(Notice of Mot., p. 1:11-15.)  Thus, the court finds that Defendant’s motion
to quash service of summons is not the appropriate method by which to challenge
subject matter jurisdiction. 
Even if the court were to
find that Defendant has properly challenged subject matter jurisdiction in
connection with this motion, the court finds that Defendant did not establish
that the court does not have subject matter jurisdiction over this action because
(1) Defendant contends that Plaintiff does not have standing to bring this
action, but Plaintiff’s standing is an issue independent of the court’s subject
matter jurisdiction, and (2) Defendant did not show that Plaintiff does not
have standing to bring this action pursuant to the Immigration Consultant Act.  (Bus. & Prof. Code, § 22446.5, subd. (b)
[any other party who claims a violation of the statute “may bring a civil
action for injunctive relief on behalf of the general public”].) 
            Third,
the court finds that Defendant has not shown that the court lacks subject
matter jurisdiction over him, such that the court has authority, pursuant to
Code of Civil Procedure section 418.10, to quash service of the summons and
complaint, based on Defendant’s arguments that (1) the Immigration Consultant
Act violates the Eighth Amendment of the Constitution of the United States, and
(2) the Immigration Consultant Act is void for vagueness.  (Stancil, supra, 11 Cal.5th at
p. 390 [“a motion to quash under section 418.10, subdivision (a)(1) is a limited
procedural tool to contest personal jurisdiction over the defendant
where the statutory requirements for service of process are not fulfilled”]
[emphasis added].) 
            The
court therefore denies Defendant’s motion to quash service of summons and
complaint.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 418.10,
subd. (a).) 
Finally, the court is concerned about the tone and content of a number of remarks
made by Defendant in his moving papers, which include personal attacks and disparaging
remarks against Plaintiff’s counsel.  (See,
e.g., Mot., pp. 10:4-6, 10:7-8, 20:27-29.)   The court finds that such remarks are
distracting from the merits of the issues and arguments presented, are not
persuasive advocacy, and have no place in written or oral submissions,
presentations, or communications made to the court or to other parties or
counsel in this litigation.  As the court states in section 1 of its
“Courtroom Information for Department 53” posted on the court’s website, “[t]he
court places a very high value on civility, courtesy, and professionalism in
the practice of law and the judicial process.¿ The court expects all attorneys
and parties to treat each other, witnesses, jurors, court personnel, the court,
and others with the highest level of civility, courtesy, and professionalism,
both inside and outside the courtroom.”  The court expects all parties,
attorneys, and other participants in this litigation to govern their conduct
accordingly.
ORDER
            The court denies defendant Edward
Lasseville’s motion to quash service of summons and complaint. 
            The court orders plaintiff Immigrant
Rights Defense Council, LLC to give notice of this ruling.
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
DATED:  July 12, 2024
 
_____________________________
Robert
B. Broadbelt III
Judge
of the Superior Court


