 Case Number:  23STCV25569    Hearing Date:   July 12, 2024    Dept:  53 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles – Central District
Department
53
 
 




byron chapman

   , et al.;
 


   Plaintiffs,
 
 
vs.
 
 
gavin newsom, in his official capacity as Governor of
   California

   , et al.;
 


   Defendants.


Case
  No.:


23STCV25569




 


 




Hearing
  Date:


July
   12, 2024




 


 




Time:





   10:00 a.m.




 


 




 
[tentative]
  Order RE:
 
defendants’ motion for judgment on the
  pleadings
 



 
MOVING PARTIES:              Defendants Gavin Newsom, in his
official capacity as Governor of California, and Rob Bonta, in his official
capacity as Attorney General of California   
 
RESPONDING PARTIES:     Plaintiffs Byron Chapman, Jose Madriz, and
Christopher Langer     
Motion for Judgment on the Pleadings
The court
considered the moving, opposition, and reply papers filed in connection with
this motion. 
DISCUSSION
Defendants Gavin Newsom, in his official capacity as Governor of
California, and Rob Bonta, in his official capacity as Attorney General of
California (“Defendants”) move the court for an order granting their motion for
judgment on the pleadings as to the Complaint for Declaratory and Injunctive
Relief filed in this action by plaintiffs Bryon Chapman, Jose Madriz, and
Christopher Langer (“Plaintiffs”). 
Plaintiffs have filed this action seeking a declaration that Code of
Civil Procedure sections 425.50 and 425.55, Government Code section 70616.5,
and Civil Code sections 55.31, subdivisions (b) and (c), and 55.54, subdivisions
(a)(1), (b)(2)(D), and (c)(7) (collectively, the “High-Frequency Litigant
Statutes”) are unconstitutional and violate the Americans with Disabilities Act
of 1990 (42 U.S.C. § 12101 et seq.) (the “Americans with Disabilities Act”).  (Compl., p. 2:1-8.) 
The court grants Defendants’ motion for judgment on the pleadings as
to Plaintiffs’ first claim for relief for violation of the First Amendment
Right to Petition because it does not state facts sufficient to constitute a
cause of action.  (Code Civ. Proc., §
438, subd. (c)(1)(B)(ii).)  
Plaintiffs have based this claim on their allegation that Code of
Civil Procedure sections 425.50 and 425.55 and Civil Code section 55.54
“restrict Plaintiffs’ access to the court system by placing additional burdens
on them or making their pleadings susceptible to a motion to strike.”  (Compl., ¶ 96.)  The court finds that Plaintiffs have not
alleged facts establishing that these statutes constitute prior restraints on
Plaintiffs’ speech.  “The use of prior
restraint to prohibit speech is particularly disfavored.  ‘A prior restraint is an administrative or
judicial order that forbids certain speech in advance of the time the
communication is to occur.  [Citation.]’  [Citation.] 
‘[P]rior restraints on speech and publication are the most serious and
least tolerable infringement on First Amended rights.’  [Citation.]” 
(People v. Salvador (2022) 83 Cal.App.5th 57, 66 [internal
citations omitted].)  
The court acknowledges, as Plaintiffs have pleaded, that certain of
the High-Frequency Litigant Statutes require a plaintiff alleging a
construction-related accessibility claim in a complaint to include information
set forth by statute, to verify such a complaint, and to pay a single
high-frequency litigant fee to the clerk. 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 425.50, subds. (a), (b)(1); Gov Code., § 70616.5,
subds. (a), (b).)  However, Plaintiffs
have not pleaded facts, nor presented argument in their opposition papers, showing
that such provisions—which reflect “partial restriction[s]” and conditions on
their ability to file certain accessibility lawsuits—constitute a prior
restraint on their speech.  (Wolfgram
v. Wells Fargo Bank (1997) 53 Cal.App.4th 43, 60 [vexatious litigant had
not “established that a partial restriction on the ability to file suit has
ever been held to be a ‘prior restraint’ requiring a showing of clear and
present danger and concomitant procedural safeguards”].)  
The court grants Defendants’ motion for judgment on the pleadings as
to Plaintiffs’ second claim for relief for violation of the First Amendment –
retaliation because it does not state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of
action since Plaintiffs did not allege facts establishing that (1) Plaintiffs
have suffered an injury due to the enactment of the High-Frequency Litigant
Statutes that would deter a person of ordinary firmness from engaging in that
protected activity (i.e., to file construction-related accessibility claims) solely
because those statutes require the inclusion of certain information in a
complaint and the payment of a fee by plaintiffs who have filed 10 or more
complaints alleging such claims within a 12-month period, and (2) Defendants
enacted the High-Frequency Litigant Statutes because of Plaintiffs’ activity.[1]  (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 438, subd. (c)(1)(B)(ii),
425.55, subd. (b)(1) [defining high-frequency litigant]; Tichinin v. City of
Morgan Hill (2009) 177 Cal.App.4th 1049, 1062-1063 [elements of claim of
retaliation for exercising a constitutional right].)
The court grants Defendants’ motion for judgment on the pleadings as
to Plaintiffs’ third claim for relief for violation of the First Amendment –
overbreadth because it does not state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of
action.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 438, subd.
(c)(1)(B)(ii).) 
“‘A statute is facially overbroad if it “may cause others not before
the court to refrain from constitutionally protected speech or
expression.”  [Citations.]  To succeed, “a constitutional challenge based
on asserted overbreadth . . . must demonstrate the statute inhibits a
substantial amount of protected speech. 
[Citation.]  ‘[O]verbreadth . . .
must not only be real, but substantial as well, judged in relation to the
statute’s plainly legitimate sweep.’ 
[Citation.]”  [Citation.]’”  (In re J.M. (2019) 36 Cal.App.5th 668,
679-680.)  “[T]he mere fact that one can
conceive of some impermissible applications of a statute is not sufficient to
render it susceptible to an overbreadth challenge.”  (In re J.C. (2014) 228 Cal.App.4th
1394, 1401 [internal citations and quotations omitted].) 
The court acknowledges that Plaintiffs have alleged that the
High-Frequency Litigant Statutes “have led to chilling effects by other
individuals seeking to enforce the [Americans with Disabilities Act].”  (Compl., ¶ 114.)  The court finds that this allegation is
insufficient to allege that the High-Frequency Litigant Statutes “may cause
others not before the court to refrain from constitutionally protected speech
or expression.”  (In re J.M., supra,
36 Cal.App.5th at pp. 679-680.)  Plaintiffs did not identify any provisions of
the High-Frequency Litigant Statutes that bar or may cause other individuals
from bringing construction-related accessibility suits.  
Moreover, Plaintiffs have not alleged facts, nor presented authority
in their opposition papers, showing that the High-Frequency Litigant Statutes
are not narrowly tailored to the compelling state interest to protect courts from
becoming burdened with lawsuits “apparently seeking quick cash settlements
rather than correction of the accessibility violation.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 425.55, subd. (a)(2); Wolfe
v. Goerge (N.D. Cal. 2005) 385 F.Supp.2d 1004, 1013 [finding that California’s
vexatious litigant statute is not overbroad because it is narrowly tailored to
further the compelling interest in having a legal system that is not needlessly
disrupted by baseless litigation].)  The
court also finds relevant that many of the provisions of the High-Frequency
Litigant Statutes—which, as set forth above, require a plaintiff to include
certain information about the high-frequency litigant delineated by statute, to
pay a single filing fee, and to refrain from sending a pre-litigation demand
letter—do not apply to all persons seeking to bring such suits, but to plaintiffs
who have filed 10 or more complaints alleging construction-related
accessibility violations within a 12-month period.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 425.55, subd. (b)(1).) 
The court grants Defendants’ motion for judgment on the pleadings as
to Plaintiffs’ fourth claim for relief for violation of California
Constitution, Article I, section 3, because it does not state facts sufficient
to constitute a cause of action since Plaintiffs have not alleged facts
establishing that the enaction of the High-Frequency Litigant Statutes has
deprived Plaintiffs’ of their right to petition the government under the
California Constitution for the same reasons set forth in connection with the
court’s ruling on the first cause of action. 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 438, subd. (c)(1)(B)(ii); Cal. Const., art. I, § 3,
subd. (a) [“The people have the right to . . . petition government for redress
of grievances . . . .”].)
The court grants Defendants’ motion for judgment on the pleadings as
to Plaintiffs’ fifth claim for relief for violation of the Fifth Amendment –
due process because it does not state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of
action since Plaintiffs did not allege facts establishing that the
High-Frequency Litigant Statutes’ provisions setting forth pleading
requirements, providing for a filing fee, and restricting the ability to send a
prelitigation demand, have deprived them of any liberty or property interests
about which they were not given notice.  (Code
Civ. Proc., § 438, subd. (c)(1)(B)(ii); Lent v. California Coastal Com. (2021)
62 Cal.App.5th 812, 842 [“‘Both the federal and state Constitutions compel the
government to afford persons due process before depriving them of any property
interest[,]’” and the essence of due process is the requirement that a person
in jeopardy of loss be given notice and an opportunity to be heard]; Compl., ¶¶
126, 134.)  For example, while Plaintiffs
allege that the right to petition is a Constitutionally protected right
(Compl., ¶ 124) and that the High-Frequency Litigant Statutes have imposed
heightened pleading standards on construction-related accessibility claims
(Compl., ¶ 126), Plaintiffs did not identify any provision of those statutes
depriving them of their abilities to bring their claims in court. 
The court grants Defendants’ motion for judgment on the pleadings as
to Plaintiffs’ sixth claim for relief for violation of the California
Constitution, article I, section 7’s right to due process because it does not
state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action for the same reasons as
set forth in connection with the court’s ruling on the sixth cause of
action.  (Civ. Proc., § 438, subd.
(c)(1)(B)(ii); Lent, supra, 62 Cal.App.5th at p. 842 [both the
federal and state Constitutions compel the government to provide due process];
Compl., ¶¶ 138-139.)
The court grants Defendants’ motion for judgment on the pleadings as
to Plaintiffs’ seventh claim for relief for violation of the Fourteenth
Amendment – Equal Protection because it does not state facts sufficient to
constitute a cause of action.  (Code Civ.
Proc., § 438, subd. (c)(1)(B)(ii).) 
Plaintiffs have alleged that high-frequency litigants “are not a
recognized protected class,” but are required, pursuant to statute, to be
individuals who exercised a constitutional right in a quantity deemed excessive
by the state (i.e., individuals who have filed more than 10 construction-related
accessibility violations within a 12-month period), such that the court must
apply strict scrutiny when evaluating the High-Frequency Litigant Statutes.  (Compl., ¶ 150; Code Civ. Proc., § 425.55,
subd. (b)(1).)  “It is a fundamental
principle that, ‘[t]o succeed on [a] claim under the equal protection clause,
[a defendant] first must show that the state has adopted a classification that
affects two or more similarly situated groups in an unequal manner.’  [Citations.] 
‘In considering whether state legislation violates the Equal Protection
Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment . . . [courts] apply different levels of
scrutiny to different types of classifications. 
At a minimum, statutory classification must be rationally related to a
legitimate governmental purpose. 
[Citations.]  Classifications
based on race or national origin . . . and classifications affecting
fundamental rights . . . are given the most exacting scrutiny.  Between these extremes of rational basis
review and strict scrutiny lies a level of intermediate scrutiny, which
generally has been applied to discriminatory classifications based on sex or
illegitimacy.  [Citations.]’”  (People v. Wilkinson (2004) 33 Cal.4th
821, 836 [internal citations omitted].) 
First, the court finds that Plaintiffs have not alleged facts
establishing that the classification of them as high-frequency litigants “affect[s]
[their] fundamental rights[,]” so as to warrant the application of strict
scrutiny to the High-Frequency Litigant Statutes, since Plaintiffs have not
alleged facts establishing that the High-Frequency Litigant Statutes have deprived
them of their fundamental rights of petition. 
(Wilkinson, supra, 33 Cal.4th at p. 836; OSU student
Alliance v. Ray (9th Cir. 2012) 699 F.3d 1053, 1067 [the differential
treatment of the plaintiffs “will draw strict scrutiny (as opposed to rational
basis review) under the Equal Protection Clause only if it impinged [the]
plaintiffs’ First Amendment Rights”].) 
Thus, because the facts alleged show that the High-Frequency Litigant
Statutes have not deprived Plaintiffs of their fundamental rights, the court
applies a rational basis review to the High-Frequency Litigant Statutes.  The court finds that the High-Frequency
Litigant Statutes are rationally related to the legitimate government purposes
of (1) preventing courts from becoming burdened with lawsuits “seeking quick
cash settlements rather than correction of the accessibility violation[,]” and
(2) maintaining the reputation “of other innocent disabled consumers who are
merely trying to go about their daily lives accessing public accommodations as they
are entitled to have full and equal access” to under the Unruh Civil Rights Act
and Americans with Disability Act.  (Code
Civ. Proc., § 425.55, subd. (a)(2); Wilkinson, supra, 33 Cal.4th
at p. 836.)
Second, even if the court had found that Plaintiffs had alleged facts
establishing that the High-Frequency Litigant Statutes contain a
“classification affecting fundamental rights[,]” the court would find that the
statutes satisfy strict scrutiny.  (Wilkinson,
supra, 33 Cal.4th at p. 836.)  The
High-Frequency Litigant Statutes, which require the inclusion of minimal
information regarding the alleged violation and a high-frequency litigant, disallow
a prelitigation demand for money, and require a separate filing fee, are
narrowly tailored and necessary to further the compelling state interests of (1)
preventing courts from becoming burdened with lawsuits “seeking quick cash
settlements rather than correction of the accessibility violation[,]” and (2)
maintaining the reputation “of other innocent disabled consumers who are merely
trying to go about their daily lives accessing public accommodations as they
are entitled to have full and equal access” to under the Unruh Civil Rights Act
and Americans with Disability Act.  (Code
Civ. Proc., §§ 425.55, subd. (a)(3), (b)(1), 425.50, subd. (a); Civ. Code, §
55.3, subd. (b)(1)(A); Gov. Code, § 70616.5, subds. (a), (b); People v.
Flint (2018) 22 Cal.App.5th 983, 993.) 
The court grants Defendants’ motion for judgment on the pleadings as
to Plaintiffs’ eighth claim for relief for violation of California
Constitution, article I, section 7 – equal protection clause, because it does
not state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action for the same reasons
set forth in connection with the court’s ruling on the seventh claim for relief
for violation of the equal protection clause of the United States Constitution.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 438, subd. (c)(1)(B)(ii);
Chorn v. Workers’ Comp. Appeals Bd. (2016) 245 Cal.App.4th 1370, 1389
[“Equal protection analysis under the state Constitution is substantially
similar to that under the federal Constitution”].) 
The court grants Defendants’ motion for judgment on the pleadings as
to Plaintiffs’ ninth claim for relief for violation of the constitutional right
to privacy because it does not state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of
action since Plaintiffs have not alleged facts establishing that the required
disclosures under Code of Civil Procedure section 425.50, subdivision (a),
including the disclosure of the reasons why the high-frequency litigant desired
to access the defendant’s business and why the high-frequency litigant was in
the geographic area of the defendant’s business, constitute “‘a serious
invasion of privacy’” by Defendants. 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 438, subd. (c)(1)(B)(ii); Compl., ¶ 163 [alleging
that the reasons and motivations for traveling to a particular area or business
constitutes private information]; Garrabrants v. Erhart (2023) 98
Cal.App.5th 486, 497 [elements of cause of action for state constitutional
invasion of privacy claim].) 
The court grants Defendants’ motion for judgment on the pleadings as
to Plaintiffs’ 10th claim for relief for preemption by the Americans with
Disabilities Act because it does not state facts sufficient to constitute a
cause of action.  (Code Civ. Proc., §
438, subd. (c)(1)(B)(ii).) 
Plaintiffs
allege that the High-Frequency Litigant Statutes are preempted by the Americans
with Disabilities Act because these statutes (1) are “inconsistent with the
federal requirements by placing hurdles not found in the federal law” (Compl.,
¶ 172), including its pleading requirements (Compl., ¶ 174) and additional
filing fee (Compl., ¶ 175), and (2) present obstacles to the full enforcement
of the Americans with Disabilities Act (Compl., ¶ 173).  The court disagrees. 
The
construction clause in the Americans with Disabilities Act “disavows any broad
preemptive intent, instead permitting states to enact and enforce complementary
laws[.]”  (Jankey v. Lee (2012) 55
Cal.4th 1038, 1049; 42 U.S.C. §¿12201, subd. (b) [“Nothing in this chapter
shall be construed to invalidate or limit the remedies, rights, and procedures
of any Federal law or law of any State or political subdivision of any State or
jurisdiction that provides greater or equal protection for the rights of
individuals with disabilities than are afforded by this chapter”].)  Laws that do not afford equal or better
protection to individuals with disabilities than the Americans with
Disabilities Act are “not shielded from preemption[,]” but the construction
clause therein “does not categorically declare that any law providing lesser
protection than the [Americans with Disabilities Act] is invalid.”  (Jankey,
supra, 55 Cal.4th at p. 1049.)  “[S]uch laws are invalid to the
extent standard conflict or obstacle preemption principles would require their
displacement.”  (Ibid.)  “Obstacle preemption ‘requires proof
Congress had particular purposes and objectives in mind, a demonstration that
leaving state law in place would compromise those objectives, and reason to
discount the possibility the Congress that enacted the legislation was aware of
the background tapestry of state law and content to let that law remain as it
was.’”  (Restore Hetch Hetchy v. City and County of San Francisco (2018)
25 Cal.App.5th 865, 877.)   
Plaintiffs have not cited authority establishing that Congress had, in
enacting the Americans with Disabilities Act, particular purposes and
objectives in mind as to the filing of construction-related accessibility
violation claims that would be compromised by leaving in place the
High-Frequency Litigant Statutes.  (Restore
Hetch Hetchy, supra, 25 Cal.App.5th at p. 877.)  The purpose of the Americans with Disabilities
Act is (1) to provide a “national mandate for the elimination of discrimination
against individuals with disabilities;” (2) to provide consistent and
enforceable “standards addressing discrimination against individuals with
disabilities;” (3) to ensure the central role of the Federal Government in
enforcing those standards on behalf of individuals with disabilities; and (4)
to invoke congressional authority “to address the major areas of discrimination
faced day-to-day by people with disabilities.” 
(42 U.S.C. § 12101, subd. (b).)  The court finds that the provisions of the
High-Frequency Litigant Statutes challenged by Plaintiffs in their Complaint
(i.e., the provisions that, inter alia, require certain information to
be pleaded, require the payment of an additional filing fee, and require the
written advisory to the defendant) do not compromise the objectives and purpose
of the Americans with Disabilities Act. 
Those statutes do not compromise the federal statute’s provision of a
national mandate for the elimination of discrimination, the provision of
enforceable standards to address discrimination, the Federal Government’s role
in enforcing those standards, or the invocation of the government to address
discrimination faced by individuals with disabilities.  (Ibid.) 
Thus, the court finds that Plaintiffs have not alleged facts
establishing that the High-Frequency Litigant Statutes are preempted by the
Americans with Disabilities Act. 
The court grants Defendants’ motion for judgment on the pleadings as
to Plaintiffs’ 11th claim for relief for retaliation in violation of the
Americans with Disabilities Act because it does not state facts sufficient to
constitute a cause of action since Plaintiffs have not alleged facts
establishing that (1) Defendants knew of Plaintiffs’ involvement in protected
activity and enacted the High-Frequency Litigant Statutes because of their
protected activity, and (2) the enactment of the High-Frequency Litigant
Statutes was a “materially adverse act[] of retaliation” by Defendants.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 438, subd. (c)(1)(B)(ii);
Wilson v. Murillo (2008) 163 Cal.App.4th 1124, 1133 [elements of prima
facie case of retaliation under the Americans with Disabilities Act], 1136-1137
[“adversity must be material—it is not enough that the alleged adverse conduct
poses some de minis inconvenience or embarrassment—the conduct must go beyond
legitimate bounds”]; 42 U.S.C. § 12203, subd. (a).) 
The
burden is on the plaintiff “to articulate how it could amend its pleading to
render it sufficient.”¿ (Palm Springs Villas II Homeowners Assn., Inc. v.
Parth (2016) 248 Cal.App.4th 268, 290.)¿ To satisfy that burden, a
plaintiff “must show in what manner he can amend his complaint and how that
amendment will change the legal effect of his pleading.”¿ (Goodman v.
Kennedy (1976) 18 Cal.3d 335, 349.)  The court finds that Plaintiffs
have not met their burden to show how they can amend their pleading to render
it sufficient.  The court therefore
grants Defendants’ motion for judgment on the pleadings without leave to amend.

ORDER
            The court grants defendants Gavin
Newsom, in his official capacity as Governor of California, and Rob Bonta, in
his official capacity as Attorney General of California’s motion for judgment
on the pleadings to the Complaint filed by plaintiffs Bryon Chapman, Jose
Madriz, and Christopher Langer without leave to amend. 
            The court orders defendants Gavin
Newsom, in his official capacity as Governor of California, and Rob Bonta, in
his official capacity as Attorney General of California to prepare, serve, and
lodge a proposed judgment of dismissal within 10 days from the date of this
order. 
            The court orders that (1) the trial
set for October 15, 2025, and (2) the final status conference set for October
3, 2025, are vacated. 
            The court sets an Order to Show
Cause re dismissal (after granting motion for judgment on the pleadings without
leave to amend) for hearing on November 1, 2024, at 8:30 a.m., in Department
53.
The court orders defendants Gavin Newsom, in his official capacity as
Governor of California, and Rob Bonta, in his official capacity as Attorney
General of California to give notice of this ruling.
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
DATED:  July 12, 2024
 
_____________________________
Robert
B. Broadbelt III
Judge
of the Superior Court


