 Case Number:  23STCV23402    Hearing Date:   December 17, 2024    Dept:  68 Dept.
68
Date:
12-17-24 c/f 11-25-24
Case
#: 23STCV23402
Trial
Date: 1-21-25
 
PMQ DEPOSITION
 
MOVING
PARTY: Plaintiff, Donald Stephenson 
RESPONDING
PARTY: Defendant, Mercedes-Benz USA, LLC
 
RELIEF
REQUESTED
Motion
to Compel PMQ Deposition
 
SUMMARY
OF ACTION
Plaintiff
Donald Stephenson alleges a 2020 Mercedes-Benz GT63C4S vehicle suffers from certain
defects not repaired by Defendant Mercedes-Benz USA, LLC. On September 27, 2023,
Plaintiff filed a complaint for Violation of Song-Beverly Act—Breach of Express
Warranty of Merchantability, and Violation of the Song-Beverly Act—Breach of
Implied Warranty, and Negligent Repair. On June 21, 2023, FCA US LLC answered
the complaint.
 
On
November 14, 2024, the court granted the motion for judgment on the pleadings
by LAD-MB, LLC dba Mercedes-Benz of Los Angeles as to the third cause of action
for negligent repair. 
 
RULING: Granted.
Plaintiff Donald Stephenson moves to compel the deposition
of the person most qualified (PMQ), and 4 requests for production. Plaintiff
served a notice of deposition for the PMQ, and attempted to meet and confer,
but alleges Mercedes-Benz USA, LL (Mercedes) refuses to produce witness(es) and
presented obstructionist objects. Mercedes in opposition denies any objection
to the attending the deposition, and states that Plaintiff provided no
videoconferencing option for attendance. Plaintiff failed to adequately meet
and confer before filing the instant motion on the same day as the scheduled
deposition. Plaintiff took no certificate of non-appearance. Mercedes continues
to offer to produce the witness. The electronic filing system shows no reply on
file at the time of the tentative ruling publication cutoff, but the court
reserves the right to take the matter under submission for any filed reply
appearing between the time of the issuance of the tentative ruling and the
hearing.
 
A party may file a motion to compel deposition upon a
non-appearance of the noticed party. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.450, subd. (a).)
A party must present a qualified person for each deposition. (Maldonado v. Superior Court (2002) 94 Cal.App.4th
1390, 1398.) Because the motion constitutes a motion to compel, no meet and
confer was required given the agreed upon objection free date of August 27,
2024.
 
The validity of the deposition and document production
remains undisputed. The court therefore foregoes a review of the standards for Song-Beverly
Act (SBA) litigation, and its own policy regarding discovery. 
 
The notice of deposition in fact identifies the location of
the deposition as “Zoom Video Conference,” and it remains undisputed no Zoom
link was provided. [See Declaration of Luis Serrano, Ex. G.] Apparently no
pre-deposition meet and confer occurred before or after regarding the omitted
video conference link, thereby leading to the motion before the court instead
of the parties simply generating the necessary link or agreeing to a new date.
 
The court therefore GRANTS the motion for purposes of
requiring the presentation of the PMQ for deposition via videoconference, with
a pre-provided Zoom link presented by Plaintiff’s counsel. The court also
orders document production on the undisputed categories. The court orders the
parties to meet and confer within the next five (5) day of this order to agree
upon a mutually convenient deposition date of the PMQ to occur within the next 10
days, pursuant to the presented guidelines.
 
Defendant may assert any privilege objections at the time of
the deposition, as it deems required. An excessive amount of objections and/or
termination of the deposition may allow Plaintiff to file a motion to compel further
deposition testimony and/or production. Such a motion will require a trial
continuance, with a potential additional setting of an OSC for referral to a
discovery referee in order to conduct a supervised deposition and/or document review
with authority to make privilege determinations, as well as the right to award
sanctions in favor of the prevailing party.
 
The court declines to impose sanctions against either party
given the lack of effort to resolve this otherwise readily resolved issue, as
well as the lack of any certificate of non-appearance presented by Plaintiff. (Code
Civ. Proc., § 2025.450, subd. (g).)
 
Trial remains set for January 21, 2025. 
 
Defendant to give notice.