  Case Number:  23STCV29612    Hearing Date:   March 15, 2024    Dept:  51 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Upinder S.
Kalra, Department 51
 
HEARING DATE:   March
15, 2024                                               
 
CASE NAME:           Selma
Blunk v. Frank D. Lanterman Regional Center, Inc., et al.
 
CASE NO.:                23STCV29612

 
SPECIAL
MOTION TO STRIKE PLANTIFF’S COMPLAINT UNDER CCP § 425.16; DEMURRER
 
MOVING PARTY:  Defendants
Los Angeles County Developmental Services Foundation d/b/a Frank D. Lanterman
Regional Center and Srbui Ovsepyan
 
RESPONDING PARTY(S): Plaintiff Selma Blunk
 
REQUESTED RELIEF: 
 
1.      An
Order striking Plaintiff’s Complaint and for reasonable attorneys’ fees;
2.      Demurrer
to the entire Complaint for failure to state sufficient facts to constitute a
cause of action.
TENTATIVE RULING: 
 
1.      Defendants’
Special Motion to Strike is GRANTED;
2.      Defendants’
Demurrer is OVERRULED as moot.
STATEMENT OF MATERIAL FACTS AND/OR PROCEEDINGS: 
 
On December 4, 2023, Plaintiff Selma Blunk (Plaintiff) filed
a Complaint against Defendants Frank D. Lanterman Regional Center, Inc. and
Srbui Ovsepyan (Defendants) with four causes of action for: (1) Defamation, (2)
Defamation Per Se, (3) False Light, and (4) Intentional Infliction of Emotional
Distress.
 
According to the Complaint, Defendants sent a letter to the
Honorable Judge Lynn Scaduto, Gloria Cohen and Rebecca Loo that contained
statements about Plaintiff in connection with conservatorship proceedings of a
third party. Plaintiff claims these statements were false. 
 
On January 9, 2024, Defendants filed a Demurrer.
 
On February 2, 2024, Defendants filed a Special Motion to
Strike Pursuant to CCP § 425.16.
 
On February 23, 2024, Plaintiff filed an opposition to the
Demurrer.
 
On March 4, 2024, Plaintiff filed an opposition to the
Special Motion to Strike.
 
On March 8, 2024, Defendants filed reply briefs.
 
LEGAL STANDARD: 
 
Special Motion to
Strike
 
“The anti-SLAPP procedures are designed to shield a
defendant’s constitutionally protected¿conduct¿from
the undue burden of frivolous litigation.”¿ (Baral v.¿Schnitt¿(2016) 1 Cal.5th 376, 393.)¿ “The anti-SLAPP
statute does not insulate defendants from any liability for claims arising from
the protected rights of petition or speech.¿ It only provides a procedure for
weeding out, at an early stage, meritless claims arising from protected
activity.”¿ (Id.¿at p. 384.)¿¿¿ 
 
“Resolution of an anti-SLAPP motion involves two steps.¿
First, the defendant must establish that the challenged claim arises from
activity protected by¿section 425.16.¿ If the defendant makes the required
showing, the burden shifts to the plaintiff to demonstrate the merit of the
claim by establishing a probability of success.”¿ (Baral,¿supra, 1 Cal.5th
at p. 384 [citation omitted].)¿ The California Supreme Court has “described
this second step as a ‘summary-judgment-like procedure.’¿ The court does not
weigh evidence or resolve conflicting factual claims.¿ Its inquiry is limited
to whether the plaintiff has stated a legally sufficient claim and made¿a prima
facie¿factual showing sufficient to sustain a favorable judgment.¿ It accepts
the plaintiff’s evidence as¿true, and¿evaluates the defendant’s showing only to
determine if it defeats the plaintiff’s claim as a matter of law.¿
‘[C]laims¿with the requisite minimal merit may proceed.’”¿ (Id.¿at pp. 384-385 [citations
omitted].)¿ 
 
Demurrer
 
A demurrer for sufficiency tests whether the complaint
states a cause of action.¿(Hahn v. Mirda¿(2007)
147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747.) When considering demurrers, courts read the
allegations liberally and in context.¿In a demurrer proceeding, the defects
must be apparent on the face of the pleading or via proper judicial notice.¿(Donabedian v. Mercury Ins. Co. (2004)
116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994.)¿“A demurrer tests the pleadings alone and not the
evidence or other extrinsic matters. …. The only issue involved in a demurrer
hearing is whether the complaint, as it stands, unconnected with extraneous
matters, states a cause of action.”¿(Hahn¿147
Cal.App.4th at 747.)¿¿ 
¿ 
When considering demurrers, courts read the allegations
liberally and in context, accepting the alleged facts as true. (Nolte v. Cedars-Sinai Medical Center
(2015) 236 Cal.App.4th 1401, 1406.) Courts also consider exhibits attached to
the complaint and incorporated by reference. (See Frantz v. Blackwell (1987) 189 Cal.App.3d 91, 94 (Frantz).)¿ 
 
Meet and Confer
 
Prior to
filing a demurrer, the demurring party is required to satisfy their meet and
confer obligations pursuant to Code of Civ. Proc. §430.41, and demonstrate that
they so satisfied their meet and confer obligation by submitting a declaration
pursuant to Code of Civ. Proc. §430.41(a)(2) & (3). Defendants’ counsel
attempted to meet and confer with Plaintiff’s counsel on December 22, 2023,
January 2, 2024, and January 4, 2024 with no response. (Abramowitz Decl. ¶ 4.)
Even if this is insufficient meet and confer efforts, that alone is not grounds
to overrule or sustain a demurrer, or
grant or deny a motion to strike. (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 430.41, subd. (a)(4);
435.5 subd. (a)(4).)
 
Request for Judicial Notice
 
ANALYSIS: 
 
SPECIAL MOTION TO
STRIKE
 
Defendants contend the Complaint is subject to Special
Motion to Strike under CCP § 425.16(e)(1) because it is wholly based on
protected speech – namely, the Probate Code § 1827.5 report in connection with
Plaintiff’s limited conservatorship petition. Plaintiff contends the report is
not protected because it is false and was sent to a non-party to the
conservatorship petition.
 
Prong 1: Protected
Speech
 
The first prong of the anti-SLAPP analysis requires the
defendant to make “a threshold showing that the challenged cause of action is
one arising from protected activity.”  (Equilon Enterprises v. Consumer Cause, Inc. (2002) 29¿Cal.4th 53,
67 (Equilon); § 425.16, subd.
(b)(1).)  “[T]he statutory phrase ‘cause of action . . .  arising
from’ means simply that the defendant’s act underlying the plaintiff’s cause of
action must itself have been an act
in furtherance of the right of petition or free speech.  [Citation.] 
In¿the anti-SLAPP context, the critical point is whether the plaintiff’s cause
of action itself was based on an act
in furtherance of the defendant’s right of petition or free speech.”  (City of Cotati v. Cashman (2002) 29
Cal.4th 69, 78 (City of Cotati); Park, supra, at p. 1060; Old Republic Const. Program Group v.
Boccardo Law Firm, Inc. (2014) 230 Cal.App.4th 859, 862.) As such, a trial
court must examine the elements of a claim and determine what actions supply
those elements and consequently form the basis for the defendant’s alleged
liability.  (Park, supra, 2
Cal.5th at p. 1063.) Allegations of protected activity that are “ ‘merely
incidental’ or ‘collateral’ ” or that “merely provide context, without
supporting a claim for recovery, cannot be stricken under the anti-SLAPP
statute.”  (Baral v. Schnitt (2016)
1 Cal.5th 376, 394 (Baral).) 
“In deciding whether the ‘arising from’ requirement is met, a court considers
‘the pleadings, and supporting and opposing affidavits stating the facts upon which
the liability or defense is based.’ ”  (City of Cotati, at p. 79, quoting § 425.16, subd. (b).)   
 
CCP § 425.16(e)(1) provides that an “act in furtherance of a
person's right of petition or free speech under the United States or California
Constitution in connection with a public issue” includes: (1) any written or
oral statement or writing made before a legislative, executive, or judicial
proceeding, or any other official proceeding authorized by law. 
 
Here, it is undisputed that the Complaint is based on
protected speech because it was made as part of a judicial proceeding.[1]
(Compl., Exhibit 1 [referencing Case No. 23STPB08125].) Indeed, Plaintiff’s
entire Complaint is based on this Report.[2]

 
Accordingly, Defendants have made a threshold showing that Plaintiff’s
Complaint arises from protected activity.
 
Prong 2: “Probability
of prevailing on the claims”
 
Defendants contend Plaintiff cannot prevail on the merits
because the Report is absolutely privileged under the litigation privilege
codified in Civ. Code 47(b). Plaintiff argues that Defendants sent the Report
to a non-party, Ms. Cohen, which was not protected speech. Plaintiff
additionally argues that Defendants perjured themselves rendering the
statements unprotected. Defendants reply that Ms. Cohen is N.J.’s
co-conservator and is substantially interested in the outcome of Plaintiff’s
limited conservatorship hearing. 
 
When defendants carry their initial burden to make a prima
facie showing that the claims are subject to CCP § 425.16, the burden shifts to
the plaintiff to establish a probability that they will prevail at trial on
that claim by making a prima facie showing on that claim.¿ (Roberts v. Los Angeles County Bar Assoc.¿(2003)
105 Cal.App.4th 604, 613.)¿ “Put another way, the plaintiffs ‘must demonstrate
that the complaint is both legally sufficient and supported by a sufficient
prima facie showing of facts to sustain a favorable judgment if the evidence
submitted by the plaintiff is credited.’ [Citations.]”¿ (Feldman v. 1100 Park Lane Associates (2008) 160 Cal.App.4th 1467,
1477-78).¿ “Thus, plaintiffs' burden as to the second prong of the anti-SLAPP
test is akin to that of a party opposing a motion for summary judgment.”¿ (Id.)¿ While the Court does not weigh the
evidence, “the trial court must consider facts so as to make a determination
whether [Cross-Complainants] can establish a prima facie probability of
prevailing on [their] claims.”¿ (Blanchard
v. DIRECTV, Inc.¿(2004) 123 Cal.App.4th 903, 921.)¿  “If
there is a conflict in the evidence (the existence of a disputed material
fact), the anti-SLAPP motion should be denied. (Citizens of Humanity, LLC v. Hass (2020) 46 Cal.App.5th 589,
598.)  As will be shown, Plaintiff has failed
in their burden to establish a probability that they will prevail at trial on
that claim by making a prima facie showing on that claim.¿
 
Litigation Privilege
 
The litigation privilege is codified at Civil Code section 47, subdivision (b), and
provides that “a privileged publication or broadcast is one made . . . [¶] [i]n
any . . . judicial proceeding . . . .”  
 
“’The principal purpose of [Civil Code] section [47,
subdivision (b)] is to afford litigants and witnesses . . .  the utmost
freedom of access to the courts without fear of being harassed subsequently by
derivative tort actions.’ [Citation.] Additionally, the privilege promotes
effective judicial proceedings by encouraging ‘“open channels of communication
and the presentation of evidence”’¿without the external threat of liability
[citation]¿and ‘by encouraging attorneys to zealously protect their clients' interests.’
[Citation.]” (Flatley v. Mauro (2006)
39 Cal.4th 299, 321-322.) 
 
The litigation
privilege is “absolute,” and “it bars all tort causes of
action except a claim of malicious prosecution.” (Hagberg v. California Federal Bank (2004) 32 Cal.4th 350, 360.) It
applies not only to statements made before a court but broadly “to any
communication (1) made in judicial or quasi-judicial proceedings; (2) by
litigants or other participants authorized by law; (3) to achieve the objects of
the litigation; and (4) that have some connection or logical relation to the
action.” (Silberg v. Anderson (1990)
50 Cal.3d 205, 212 (Silberg).) Simply
put, “communications in connection with matters related to a lawsuit are
privileged under Civil Code section 47, subdivision (b).” (Sylmar Air Conditioning v. Pueblo Contracting Services (2004) 122
Cal.App.4th 1049, 1058.) Moreover, “[t]he
privilege ‘is not limited to statements made during a trial or other
proceedings, but may extend to steps taken prior thereto, or afterwards.’
[Citation.]’ [Citation.].” (Flickinger v. Finwall (2022) 85 Cal. App. 5th 822, 840.)[3]
To be sure, “[t]he
litigation privilege is interpreted broadly in order to further its principal
purpose of affording litigants and witnesses the utmost freedom of access to
the courts without fear of harassment in derivative tort actions. [Citation.].” (Ibid.) 
 
Here, as discussed above, the protected activity that is
the basis of liability in this action is the Report that Defendants submitted
to the court during Plaintiff’s petition for limited conservatorship. A copy of
that filing was also served on two other parties: the conservatee’s attorney, and
to a Ms. Cohen. The initial reason for the report being sent to Cohen was because
she was identified on the Petition as a co-conservator along with Plaintiff.
This was an error. Cohen was not petitioning to be a co- co-conservator of N.J.
Plaintiff contends that since Cohen was not
a co-conservator, the litigation privilege does not apply. Plaintiff’s narrow reading
of the litigation privilege is not supported by the facts or law.
 
While Plaintiff justifiably
challenges labeling Cohen as a co-conservator, it cannot be disputed that Cohen
is connected to N.J.’s Petition.  First,
on July 25, 2023, Petitioner filed the Petition for N.J. (23STBP08125).[4]
The day before, on July 24, 2023, Plaintiff and Gloria Cohen jointly filed a petition
to be co-conservators for C.C. (23STBP08032),[5]
another consumer of Defendant. Second, C.C. and N.J. are roommates, who live together
in a Glendale apartment. Third, Cohen is the mother of C.C. and Plaintiff is
C.C.’s aunt. The fact that simultaneously with N.J.’s Conservator Petition, Plaintiff
and Cohen were jointly petitioning to become co-conservators of C.C. demonstrates
a clear connection to the two Petitions. 
 
Applying these facts to
the four Silberg factors results in one, inescapable conclusion: the litigation
privilege applies to the report being sent to Cohen. 
 
(1) Made in judicial or quasi-judicial
proceedings
 
A
communication need not occur in court to be made in a judicial proceeding. (Costa v. Superior Court (1984) 157
Cal.App.3d 673, 677 (Costa).)  The report that Cohen was cc’ed was addressed
to a Superior Court Judge who was adjudicating N.J.’s Petition. Thus, the Court
finds that the communication was made in a judicial proceeding.
 
(2) By litigants or
other participants authorized by law
Cohen qualifies as “other participant
qualified by law. First, she was a prospective witness, and thus was a
participant who was authorized by law.  (Ascherman v. Natanson (1972) 23 Cal.App.3d 861, 865.) Second, Cohen was “substantially interested” in the petition for N.J.’s limited
conservatorship’s outcome. Since Plaintiff and Cohen were simultaneously seeking a conservatorship of C.C., N.J.’s
roommate’s, who was her daughter and Plaintiff’s niece, it is reasonable to
infer that the report could impact the Petition of her daughter.  Stated otherwise, she was not just some random
member of the general public who received the report. (Costa, supra, 157 Cal.App.3d at p. 687; Susan A. v. County of Sonoma (1991) 2 Cal.App.4th 88, 94 [“[T]he
subsidiary lodge members to whom the letter was addressed possessed a
substantial interest in the outcome of the pending litigation and as such were
authorized participants therein.”].) Thus, the Court
concludes that Cohen was another participant authorized by law.
 
(3) To achieve the objectives of
the litigation and (4) Have some connection or logical relation to the action.
“The requirement that the communication be in furtherance
of the objects of the litigation is, in essence, simply part of the requirement
that the communication be connected with, or have some logical
relation to, the action, i.e., that it not be extraneous to the action. . . (Silberg, supra, 50
Cal.3d 219.)[6]  “ ‘In order that the privilege apply, it is unnecessary
that the defamatory matter be relevant or material to an issue before the
tribunal but need only have some proper connection or relation to the
proceeding and in achieving its objectives.’ ” (Costa, supra,  157 Cal.App.3d at p. 677.) The connections
to the N.J. Petition is self-evident. It appears that the investigation into
C.C.’s petition was done concurrently with the investigation of N.J.’s
petition. The court noted typographical errors that misgendered N.J. as she.
And it only makes sense that there was overlap in the reports since two Petitions
were pending for two roommates who were both consumers of Defendant and the Plaintiff
was the Petitioner in both applications. Thus, the Court concludes that the
communication to Cohen has a connection to or logical relation to the action. 
 
Therefore, even if each fact in the Complaint is taken as
true and even if Plaintiff has stated a claim with respect to each cause of
action, the litigation privilege bars admission of all of Plaintiff’s evidence of
Defendants’ wrongdoings. Because Plaintiff will be barred from presenting
evidence to substantiate his claim, Plaintiff does not have a probability of
success. 
 
False Statements
Even if the litigation privilege did not bar the admission
of the report sent to Cohen, Plaintiff has, nonetheless, failed in her burden
to show she has minimal probability of success. Plaintiff’s entire complaint is
founded on statements in the report that she alleges are false. Below are the statements:
 
1.      Expressed
desire to become N.J.’s In-Home Supervisor and receive payment which suggested a
financial conflict of interest. [7]
2.      N.J.
has stated numerous times that he did not want Plaintiff as conservator. 
3.      N.J.
states that Plaintiff installed security cameras which makes N.J. feel that his
privacy is being violated.
Plaintiff needed to proffer admissible evidence that these
statements are false. While Plaintiff argues that they are false, Plaintiff has
presented no admissible evidence that the above statements are false. Accordingly,
she has failed to meet her minimal showing.
 
Accordingly, the court GRANTS Defendants’ Special Motion
to Strike the Complaint.
 
DEMURRER
 
Based on the foregoing ruling on the Special Motion to
Strike, Defendants’ demurrer is OVERRULED as moot.
 
CONCLUSION:
 
            For
the foregoing reasons, the Court decides the pending motion as follows: 
 
1.Defendants’ Special Motion to
Strike is GRANTED;
2.Defendants’ Demurrer is
OVERRULED as moot.
Moving party is to give notice. 
 
IT IS SO ORDERED. 
 
Dated:              March 15, 2024                       __________________________________                                                                                                                Upinder
S. Kalra
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court
 
 


