


[1]
Instead, as will be discussed more fully below, the parties dispute whether
this document is absolutely protected by the litigation privilege.
 


[2]
Specifically, Plaintiff alleges that the Report is defamatory, that it is
defamatory per se for painting her as scheming to control financial affairs of
N.J., that it damages her reputation in the community, and that Defendants’
creating the Report was meant to intentionally inflict emotional distress.


[3]Although the scope of
protected activity under anti-SLAPP and the scope of the litigation privilege are not exactly
coterminous, they are symmetrical for the purposes of this motion. (See Flatley, supra, at p. 323 [“The litigation privilege is also relevant to the
second step in the anti-SLAPP analysis in that it may present a substantive
defense a plaintiff must overcome to demonstrate a probability of prevailing”];
accord Action Apartment Association, Inc.
v. City of Santa Monica (2007) 41 Cal.4th 1232, 1248 [litigation privilege applies to communications
and communicative conduct, but not to noncommunicative conduct].) 


[4]The Petition is replete with errors. In Box 2 Proposed
conservatee is “Daniel Palacios.” The Court wonders, Who is Daniel Palacios?
Moreover, the address of conservatee is the same address as Plaintiff. Other
filings indicate the correct address of N.J. should be the same as C.C.’s. 
 


[5]A quick comparison of the two Petitions indicate that
they are identical in almost all respects. For example, in Box 5 in N.J.’s Petition
which asks for the reason for the application, Plaintiff writes: “He is unable
to make medical decisions. He cannot [sic] left alone. He gets easily confused.
He does not know the date/time of day. He cannot use public transportation. He
is susceptible to sexual abuse.” Box 5 of C.C.’s Petition, other than changing
the gender, is a cut and paste duplicate, with the same grammatical errors: “She
is unable to make medical decisions. She cannot [sic] left alone. She gets
easily confused; She does not know the date/time of day. She cannot use public
transportation. She is susceptible to sexual abuse.”


[6]Plaintiff’s
reliance on Bradley
v. Hartford Acc. & Indem. Co. (1973) 30 Cal.App.3d 818 is misplaced. The
interest of justice test that its holding was founded on was expressly rejected
by California Supreme Court in Silberg.


[7]The
other alleged potential financial conflict of interest was leveled against
Cohen—landlord of N.J.— and not Plaintiff. 

