Here is the summary in YAML format:

```
Case Number: 22STCV13023
Plaintiff's Name: Kenneth Oleesky
Defendant's Name: Lithia Motors, Inc. and Van Nuys-L
People-Names: Kenneth Oleesky, Diana Rusnick, Shirley Wang, Esq., Jacqueline A. Connor
Company-Names: Lithia Motors, Inc., Van Nuys-L, Keyes Motors, Inc., Toyota Motor Sales U.S.A., Inc., Saber Law Group
Places: Los Angeles, California, Medford, Oregon
Dates: February 20, 2024, March 13, 2024
Events: Deposition of Van Nuys-L's PMK, Motion to Compel, Motion to Quash, Appointment of Discovery Referee
Money: $13,736 (amount of monetary sanctions)
Intentions: Plaintiff seeks to investigate the structure of Defendants vis-à-vis Toyota and determine if both Defendants jointly employed Plaintiff
Facts: Plaintiff filed an employment action against Defendants; Defendant's counsel directed the PMK not to answer certain deposition questions; Plaintiff moved to compel the PMK to answer questions and for a protective order governing future depositions
Disputes: Dispute over whether the deposition should be limited to questions that the witness refused to answer; dispute over whether the deposition should be conducted remotely or in-person
Acts: Plaintiff's counsel sought monetary sanctions against Defendant and/or its counsel; Defendant's counsel directed the PMK not to answer certain deposition questions
Agreements: None
Laws: California Code of Civil Procedure, California Rules of Court, Martinez v. Combs (2010), SCC Acquisitions, Inc. v. Superior Court (2015), Britt v. Superior Court (1978)
Case Citations: Martinez v. Combs (2010), SCC Acquisitions, Inc. v. Superior Court (2015), Britt v. Superior Court (1978)
Statutes: California Code of Civil Procedure, California Rules of Court
Roles: Judge (appointing a discovery referee and making rulings on motions), Plaintiff's counsel (seeking to investigate the structure of Defendants vis-à-vis Toyota), Defendant's counsel (directing the PMK not to answer certain deposition questions)
Significant Statements:
* "The Court will not appoint a discovery referee for other depositions or motions at this point, but the Court will revisit this issue as necessary."
* "The Court appoints a discovery referee for that purpose only."
* "The record suggests that Van Nuys-L's principal business office is in Medford, Oregon."
* "The Court will reconsider this order if Defendant provides evidence that Van Nuys-L's principal business office is such that another location would be required under section 2025.250."
* "The Court orders that the deposition shall occur in Los Angeles, California unless the parties stipulate otherwise."
* "The Court finds that Van Nuys-L and its counsel have abused the discovery process, warranting sanctions."
```

And here is a summary of the judge's tentative ruling in English text:

The judge has issued a tentative ruling in a employment action between Plaintiff Kenneth Oleesky and Defendant Lithia Motors, Inc. and Van Nuys-L. The Plaintiff has moved to compel the person most knowledgeable (PMK) for Van Nuys-L to answer certain deposition questions, and to appoint a discovery referee to preside over the deposition. The Plaintiff has also moved for a protective order governing future depositions and for monetary sanctions against Defendant and/or its counsel.

The judge has granted the Plaintiff's motions and ordered that the PMK for Van Nuys-L shall sit for another deposition that shall last eight hours or less (not including breaks). The deposition shall not be limited to those questions that the witness refused to answer, and the Plaintiff's counsel may ask any questions, even if they were answered during the prior deposition.

The judge has also appointed a discovery referee, the Honorable Jacqueline A. Connor, to preside over the deposition and make appropriate findings and recommendations on necessary rulings. The judge has ordered that the deposition shall occur in Los Angeles, California unless the parties stipulate otherwise.

In addition, the judge has denied Defendant's motion to quash two subpoenas that Plaintiff served on Keyes Motors, Inc. and Toyota Motor Sales U.S.A., Inc. The judge has found that the subpoenas are not overbroad and that Plaintiff is entitled to investigate the structure of Defendants vis-à-vis Toyota.

The judge has also ordered that Van Nuys-L and its counsel shall pay the cost of the discovery referee, since their attorney's conduct necessitated the referee. The judge has further ordered that the parties shall meet and confer and schedule the deposition forthwith.