 Case Number:  22STCV13023    Hearing Date:   March 13, 2024    Dept:  39 Kenneth Oleesky v.
Lithia Motors, Inc., et al.
Case No.
22STCV13023
 
Order #1 of 2
Order Appointing
Discovery Referee to Preside Over Deposition
 
            Plaintiff
Kenneth Oleesky (“Plaintiff”) filed this employment action against Defendants
Lithia Motors, Inc. (“Lithia”) and Van Nuys-L (“Defendant”).  Previously, Plaintiff Kenneth Oleesky
(“Plaintiff”) moved to compel the person most knowledgeable (“PMK”) for
Defendant Van Nuys-L (“Defendant”), Diana Rusnick, to answer certain deposition
questions after Defendant’s counsel directed her not to answer.  Plaintiff moved for a protective order
governing future depositions.  Finally,
Plaintiff’s counsel sought monetary sanctions in the amount of $13,736 against
Defendant and/or its counsel of record, Shirley Wang, Esq. of the Saber Law
Group. 
 
            The Court
granted Plaintiff’s motions and ordered as follows: (1) The PMK for Van Nuys-L
on Topic Numbers 3, 4, and 8-24 shall sit for another deposition that shall
last eight hours or less (not including breaks); (2) This deposition shall not be
limited to those questions that the witness refused to answer; (3)  Plaintiff’s counsel may ask any questions,
even if they were answered during the prior deposition; and (4) The deposition
shall be taken in-person unless the parties stipulate to a remote appearance.  In other words, Plaintiff’s counsel is
entitled to a “re-do” of this deposition based upon Defendant’s counsel’s
conduct during the prior deposition.  
 
The Court issued an Order to Show
Cause why the Court should not appoint a discovery referee under Code of Civil
Procedure section 639 to preside over the deposition of Van Nuys-L’s PMK, supervise
the parties’ conduct, and make appropriate findings and recommendations on
necessary rulings, including whether a question falls within the scope of a PMK
designation and whether objections shall be sustained or overruled (though the
PMK is required to answer all questions, even if the discovery referee sustains
the objection).  The Court incorporates
its order of February 20, 2024, by reference. 
The Court deferred a ruling on the issue of sanctions.  
 
            Neither
party objects to the appointment of a discovery referee to preside over the
deposition of Van Nuys-L’s person most knowledgeable.  Therefore, the Court appoints a discovery
referee for that purpose only.  The Court
declines to appoint a discovery referee for other depositions or motions at
this point, but the Court will revisit this issue as necessary. 
 
            During the
prior hearing, Defendant’s counsel requested that the Court authorize a remote
deposition.  The Court declines to do
so.  None of this would have been
necessary but for Defendant’s counsel’s conduct.  The Court orders that the deposition shall
occur in Los Angeles, California unless the parties stipulate otherwise per
Code of Civil Procedure section 2025.250(d), as well as the Court’s inherent
authority to control discovery.  The
record suggests that Van Nuys-L’s principal business office is in Medford,
Oregon.  (See Declaration of Diana
Rusnick, ¶¶ 3-4.)  The Court will
reconsider this order if Defendant provides evidence that Van Nuys-L’s
principal business office is such that another location would be required under
section 2025.250.  
 
            Based upon
the foregoing, the Court orders as follows:
 
            1.         The Court orders that the deposition of
Van Nuys-L’s PMK shall be conducted live in Los Angeles, California unless the
parties stipulate otherwise.  
 
            2.         The Court orders that a discovery
referee shall preside over the deposition and make appropriate findings and
recommendations on necessary rulings, including whether a question falls within
the scope of a PMK designation and whether objections shall be sustained or
overruled (though the PMK is required to answer all questions, even if the
discovery referee sustains the objection). 
The discovery referee’s work shall be limited to presiding over this
deposition.  
 
            3.         Because the deposition will occur in
Los Angeles, California, the Court considers the parties’ three proposed
discovery referees in Los Angeles.  The
Court appoints the Honorable Jacqueline A. Connor because her hourly billing
rate of $1,200 is the lowest among the three discovery referees in Los Angeles
(in consideration of Judge White’s initial case management fee, which does not appear
to be necessary for such a limited engagement). 
The Court knows Judge Connor only by reputation, never having met or
spoken with her.  The Court authorizes only
18 hours to prepare for and preside over the deposition, given that this is a
straightforward issue.  
 
            4.         If Judge Connor declines the case, or
the parties stipulate to a different referee, the parties shall alert the Court
by filing a stipulation and proposed order or ex parte application with at
least three days’ notice.  
 
5.         For
the reasons discussed in the Court’s order of February 20, 2024, the Court
finds that Van Nuys-L and its counsel have abused the discovery process,
warranting sanctions.  However, instead
of ordering Van Nuys-L and its counsel to pay these sanctions and then
splitting the cost of the discovery referee among the parties, the Court simply
will order Van Nuys-L to pay the cost of the discovery referee, since its attorney’s
conduct necessitated the referee.   
 
6.         The
parties shall meet-and-confer and schedule the deposition forthwith.  
 
            7.         Plaintiff’s counsel shall provide
notice and file proof of such with the Court. 
 
 
 


 
Order #2 of 2
Defendants’ Motion
to Quash
 
            Defendants
move to quash two subpoenas that Plaintiff served on Keyes Motors, Inc.
(“Keyes”) and Toyota Motor Sales U.S.A., Inc. (“Toyota”) (collectively, the “deponents”).  The motions were served on the deponents through
counsel via email, and the Court assumes that the deponents agreed to this
method of service for purposes of California Rules of Court, rule 3.1346.  
 
If a subpoena requires the production of documents, the Court may quash
the subpoena entirely or modify it. 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 1987.1, subd. (a).) 
In ruling on a motion to quash, “the Court may in its discretion award
the amount of the reasonable expenses incurred in making or opposing the
motion, including reasonable attorney's fees, if the court finds the motion was
made or opposed in bad faith or without substantial justification or that one
or more of the requirements of the subpoena was oppressive.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 1987.2, subd. (a).) 
 
            Plaintiff seeks all dealership agreements,
franchise agreements, and master framework agreements between Toyota and Defendants.  Defendants contend these subpoenas are
overbroad.  They are not.  Plaintiff contends Defendants jointly
employed Plaintiff.  As such, Plaintiff
is entitled to investigate the structure of Defendants vis-à-vis Toyota.  An employer is “any person . . . who directly
or indirectly, employs or exercises control over the wages, hours or working
conditions of any person[,]” or a person who “engage[s], suffer[s], or
permit[s] [another person] to work[.]” 
It also includes any person who exercises control over the wages, hours
or working conditions of employees. 
(Cal. Code Regs., tit. 8, § 11140(2)(C)-(F).)  Per Martinez v. Combs (2010) 49
Cal.4th 35, an employer is “a person who ‘employs or exercises control over the
wages, hours, or working conditions of any person[,]’” and this “definition
logically incorporates the separate definition of ‘employ’ (i.e., ‘to engage,
suffer, or permit to work’) as one alternative.”  (Martinez v. Combs (2010) 49 Cal.4th
35, 59.)  The nature of the relationship
between Toyota and Defendants is therefore directly relevant to the issue of
whether Defendants jointly employed Plaintiff. 
Plaintiff is entitled to investigate the extent to which each Defendant  operated independently of Toyota and each
other to determine if both Defendants exercised control over Plaintiff’s
employment.  Plaintiff is entitled to
this discovery.
 
Defendants argue that the subpoena violates Defendants’ rights to
privacy.  As corporations, Defendants do
not have a right to privacy under the California Constitution.  (SCC Acquisitions, Inc. v. Superior Court
(2015) 243 Cal.App.4th 741, 755.)  Regardless,
the Court must order the disclosure of private information if the information
is directly relevant to the litigation. 
(See Britt v. Superior Court (1978)
20 Cal.3d 844, 855-856.)  The requested
information is directly relevant to this litigation.  
 
Defendants argue that Plaintiff could obtain this information directly
from Defendants, which would be less intrusive on the deponents.  There are two problems with this
argument.  First, Defendants’ counsel do
not represent the deponents; it is incumbent upon the deponents to raise this
issue.  Second, Plaintiff’s counsel is
not required to rely on Defendants. 
Sometimes, discovery from third parties is more reliable and
forthcoming.  
 
The subpoena Plaintiff served on Keyes seeks documents regarding the acquisition
of the dealership where Plaintiff worked by Defendants from Keyes.  Again, the nature of the relationship between
Defendants is directly relevant to the issue of whether Defendants jointly
employed Plaintiff.  
 
Based upon the foregoing, Defendants’ motions to quash are denied.  The deponents shall comply with the subpoenas
within twenty (20) days.  Plaintiff’s counsel
shall provide notice and file proof of such with the Court.    