  Case Number:  22VECV01240    Hearing Date:   May 24, 2024    Dept:  T 22VECV01240 SOTO V PURETEK
[TENTATIVE] ORDER:  Plaintiff Adriana Soto’s Motion for Evidence Sanctions is DENIED. 
Introduction
Plaintiff Adriana Soto (Plaintiff) moved for evidence sanctions against Defendant Puretek Corporation (Defendant) due to their failure to produce their Person Most Qualified (PMQ) per the Court’s December 18, 2023 Order (Order).  Plaintiff requests sanctions prohibiting Defendant from introducing the following matters into evidence:  “the testimony of any person purported to be Puretek Corporation’s Person Most Qualified on Plaintiff’s wages, Puretek Corporation’s organizational structure, Plaintiff’s personnel file, Plaintiff’s termination, Puretek Corporation’s policies and procedures related to sexual harassment, all complaints, investigations, and remedial actions related to any complaints of sexual harassment against any defendants in this action, and agreements entered into between the Defendants in this action.”
Discussion
Plaintiff submitted that Defendant produced an alleged PMQ, Jeff Pressman (Jeff )[the Court means no disrespect by using the deponent’s first name.  The use of first names was for clarity because Jeff and Barry Pressman share the same last name], at the deposition.  However, Plaintiff argued that Jeff was not the proper PMQ and the PMQ that should have been produced was Barry Pressman (Barry).  Plaintiff argued that producing Jeff as a PMQ was in direct violation of the Order.  However, the Court notes that the Order did not require Defendant to produce a specific person as the PMQ.  It is upon the entity to designate and produce the officers, directors, managing agents or employees most qualified to testify on its behalf.  (Code Civ. Proc., sec. 2025.230.)  Because Defendant produced their PMQ, there is insufficient facts presented to show any violation of the Order. 
Plaintiff further argued that producing Jeff as the PMQ was a misuse of discovery.  A misuse of discovery includes either a failure to respond to discovery or providing evasive responses to discovery.  (Code Civ. Proc., sec. 2023.010(d) and (f).)  Nothing in Plaintiff’s motion or evidence shows that Jeff failed to respond to questions or provided evasive responses.  Plaintiff’s only basis for the motion is their objection that Jeff lacked personal knowledge as to the events surrounding the claims alleged and the subsequent investigation.  Plaintiff asserted that the employee that investigated Plaintiff’s claim was Natalie Nunez, who reported to Barry.  However, the PMQ need only testify “as to those matters to the extent of any information known or reasonably available to the deponent.”  (Code Civ. Proc., sec. 2025.230.)  A PMQ’s deposition is necessarily dependent upon the work done by others and requires the PMQ to avail him/herself of information to respond to questioning on the matter.  Plaintiff’s argument is unpersuasive.  Further, Plaintiff does not cite to any portion of the deposition transcript showing that Jeff was unable to respond to questions related to Plaintiff’s claim or Defendant’s investigation.  There is insufficient factual showing that Jeff’s testimony was lacking/misuse of discovery, despite Plaintiff’s contention otherwise.  For the failure to show a misuse of discovery (i.e., Jeff’s failure to respond to questioning or providing evasive responses), Plaintiff’s motion is not persuasive.
IT IS SO ORDERED, DEFENDANT TO GIVE VERBATIM NOTICE OF THIS RULING.