 Case Number:  23STCV07922    Hearing Date:   December 1, 2023    Dept:  56  
 
 
 
 
SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



BETTY BRAWNER,
 
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
 
ICC CONVALESCENT CORP., et al.,
 
                        Defendants.


 


     
  CASE NO.:  23STCV07922
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER RE: DEMURRERS AND
  MOTIONS TO STRIKE
 
Date: 
  December 1, 2023
Time: 8:30 a.m.
Dept. 56
Judge: Holly J. Fujie
 



 
MOVING PARTIES:
Defendants Syed Mohammad G. Hossain, M.D. (“Hossain”); Eugene Karpus, M.D.
(“Karpus”); Sam Nuthalapaty, M.D. (“Nuthalapaty”); and Monica Keh (“Keh”)
(collectively, “Moving Defendants”)
 
RESPONDING PARTY:
Plaintiff
 
The Court has
considered the moving, opposition and reply papers.
 
BACKGROUND
            This
action arises out of alleged misconduct that occurred during Plaintiff’s
admission at two skilled nursing facilities. 
Plaintiff’s complaint (the “Complaint”) alleges: (1) breach of contract;
(2) violation of the Elder/Dependent Abuse Act (the “Elder Abuse Act”); (3)
breach of fiduciary duty; (4) fraud; (5) civil remedies under Penal Code
section 496; (6) civil remedies under Civil Code section 3345; (7) negligence;
and (8) violation of the Patient’s Bill of Rights.
 
In relevant part, the Complaint
alleges: Plaintiff, who was born in 1932, has been cognitively impaired,
disabled, and unable to care for her own needs since at least 2016.  (See Complaint ¶¶ 28-29.)  Beginning in November 2021, pursuant to a
contract, Plaintiff was admitted to receive fulltime care at Defendant Saint
Vincent Healthcare, LLC (“Saint Vincent”). 
(Complaint ¶ 31.)  Hossain was
Plaintiff’s attending doctor during her admission at Saint Vincent.  (Complaint ¶ 32.)  Saint Vincent agreed to promptly contact
Plaintiff’s children in the event of adverse conditions.  (Complaint ¶ 31.)  Saint Vincent and its attending employees
knew that Plaintiff was dependent on them for all of her basic needs.  (Complaint ¶ 35.)  Plaintiff was discharged from Saint Vincent
on or about January 13, 2022.  (Complaint
¶ 37.)  Beginning on or about April
11, 2022, Plaintiff’s family began to suspect various acts of malfeasance and
neglect related to her admission at Saint Vincent that were evidenced by
pressure ulcers that Plaintiff had developed. 
(See Complaint ¶ 37.)
 
            Pursuant to a contract entered into
by Plaintiff and Imperial, Plaintiff was admitted to receive fulltime care at
Defendant Imperial Care Center (“Imperial”). 
(Complaint ¶ 40.)  During her
admission at Imperial, Plaintiff received treatment and care from Nuthalapaty,
her attending physician, Keh, a nurse practitioner working under Nuthalapaty,
and Karpus, her psychiatrist.  (See Complaint
¶¶ 16, 42-43.)  While admitted at
Imperial, Plaintiff was neglected and received inadequate care that culminated
in Plaintiff having a stroke on or about April 12, 2022 that required
hospitalization.  (See Complaint
¶¶ 44-48.)[1]  During Plaintiff’s hospitalization, it was
determined that Plaintiff had not been administered medications she was
prescribed, and that the failure to administer these medications substantially
contributed to her stroke.  (Complaint ¶
48.)  After being released from the
hospital, Plaintiff was readmitted to Imperial, where she has continued to be
subjected to inadequate care and neglect, which has resulted in skin issues, a
broken arm, and poor oral hygiene.  (See
Complaint ¶ 49.)
 
On September 14, 2023, Hossain filed:
(1) a demurrer to the Complaint (the “Hossain Demurrer”); and (2) a motion to
strike portions of the Complaint (the “Hossain Motion”). 
 
On September 25, 2023, Karpus filed:
(1) a demurrer to the first through sixth and eighth causes of action (the
“Karpus Demurrer”); and (2) a motion to strike portions of the Complaint (the
“Karpus Motion”).
 
On September 27, 2023, Keh filed: (1)
a demurrer to the second and third causes of action (the “Keh Demurrer”); and
(2) a motion to strike portions of the Complaint (the “Keh Motion”).
 
On September 27. 2023, Nuthalapaty
filed: (1) a demurrer to the first through sixth and eighth causes of action
(the “Nuthalapaty Demurrer”); and (2) a motion to strike portions of the
Complaint (the “Nuthalapaty Motion”).
 
 
DEMURRERS
Meet and Confer
The meet and confer requirement has
been met for the Demurrers and Motions.
 
Legal Standard
A demurrer tests the sufficiency of a
complaint as a matter of law.  (Durell v. Sharp Healthcare (2010) 183
Cal.App.4th 1350, 1358.)  The court
accepts as true all material factual allegations and affords them a liberal
construction, but it does not consider conclusions of fact or law, opinions,
speculation, or allegations contrary to law or judicially noticed facts.  (Shea
Homes Limited Partnership v. County of Alameda (2003) 110 Cal.App.4th 1246,
1254.)  With respect to a demurrer, the
complaint must be construed liberally by drawing reasonable inferences from the
facts pleaded.  (Rodas v. Spiegel (2001) 87 Cal.App.4th 513, 517.)  A demurrer will be sustained without leave to
amend if there exists no reasonable possibility that the defect can be cured by
amendment.  (Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311, 318.)  
 
Demurrers for uncertainty are
disfavored.  (Chen v. Berenjian (2019)
33 Cal.App.5th 811, 822.)  A demurrer for
uncertainty is strictly construed, even where a complaint is in some respects
uncertain, because ambiguities can be clarified under modern discovery
procedures.  (Id.)  
 
 
 
 
Legal Capacity to Sue
Under California Code of Civil
Procedure (“CCP”) section 430.10, subdivision (b), a party may demur to a
complaint on the grounds that person who filed the pleading does not have the
legal capacity to sue.  (CCP § 430, subd.
(b).)  
 
            The
Karpus Demurrer argues that the allegations of the Complaint demonstrate that
Plaintiff lacks the legal capacity to sue. 
A person who lacks the legal capacity to sue includes all of the
following: (A) a person who lacks capacity to understand the
nature or consequences of the action or proceeding; (B) a person who lacks
capacity to assist the person's attorney in the preparation of the case; and
(C) a person for whom a conservator may be appointed pursuant to Section 1801 of the Probate
Code.  (CCP § 372, subd. (a)(4).)
 
            The
Court observes that although the Complaint alleges that Plaintiff suffers from
numerous mental and physical disabilities, including Alzheimer’s disease,
Plaintiff’s legal capacity (or lack thereof) cannot be ascertained from the
face of the pleading.  The Court
therefore declines to sustain the Karpus Demurrer on this basis, although
should Plaintiff choose to file an amended pleading, she may appoint a guardian
ad litem, as discussed in the Karpus Opposition brief.
 
First Cause of Action
The elements
of a claim for breach of contract are: (1) the contract; (2) the plaintiff’s
performance or excuse for nonperformance; (3) the defendant’s breach; and (4)
damage to plaintiff therefrom.  (Wall Street Network, Ltd. v. New York Times
Co. (2008) 164 Cal.App.4th 1171, 1178.) 
A plaintiff may
plead the legal effect of the contract rather than its precise language.  (Construction
Protective Services, Inc. v. TIG Specialty Insurance Co. (2002) 29 Cal.4th
189, 198-99.)  
 
A defendant
may demur to an action founded upon a contract if it cannot be ascertained from
the pleading whether the contract is written, is oral, or is implied by
conduct.  (CCP § 430.10, subd. (g).) 
 
            The
Complaint alleges that contracts regarding Plaintiff’s care were entered into
upon her admission to Saint Vincent and Imperial.  The Complaint does not allege whether these
agreements were written, oral, or implied by conduct.  Nor does the Complaint allege Moving
Defendants’ individual relationships to the alleged contracts. The Court
therefore SUSTAINS the Hossain, Karpus, and Nuthalapaty Demurrers to the first
cause of action with 20 days leave to amend.
 
Second Cause of Action
The Elder Abuse Act
affords certain protections to elders and dependent adults.  (Kruthanooch v. Glendale Adventist Medical
Center (2022) 83 Cal.App.5th 1109, 1123.) 
Section 15657 of the Welfare and Institutions Code provides heightened
remedies to a plaintiff who can prove “by clear and convincing evidence that a
defendant is liable for physical abuse as defined in Section 15610.63, or
neglect as defined in Section 15610.57,” and who can demonstrate that the
defendant acted with “recklessness, oppression, fraud, or malice in the
commission of this abuse.”  (Id.)  
 
“Neglect” within the
meaning of Welfare and Institutions Code section 15610.57 covers an area of
misconduct distinct from “professional negligence.”  (Covenant Care, Inc. v. Superior Court (2004)
32 Cal.4th 771, 783.)  As used in the Elder
Abuse Act, neglect refers not to the substandard performance of medical
services but, rather, to the failure of those responsible for attending to the
basic needs and comforts of elderly or dependent adults, regardless of their
professional standing, to carry out their custodial obligations.  (Id.)  Thus, the statutory definition of “neglect”
speaks not of the undertaking of medical services, but of the failure to
provide medical care.  (Id.) 
 
The Elder Abuse Act's
heightened remedies are available only in limited circumstances.  (Alexander v. Scripps Memorial Hospital La
Jolla (2018) 23 Cal.App.5th 206, 222.) 
A plaintiff must prove, by clear and convincing evidence, that a
defendant is liable for either physical abuse or neglect, and that the
defendant committed the abuse with recklessness, oppression, fraud, or
malice.  (Id.)  The facts constituting the neglect and
establishing the causal link between the neglect and the injury “must be pleaded
with particularity,” in accordance with the pleading rules governing statutory
claims.  (Covenant Care, Inc. v.
Superior Court (2004) 32 Cal.4th 771, 790.)
 
            The Court finds that the Complaint
does not allege sufficiently particularized facts to allege violations of the
Elder Abuse Act against Moving Defendants. 
The allegations are generalized, largely consist of legal conclusions,
and fail to distinguish the alleged wrongdoing from professional
negligence.  The Court therefore SUSTAINS
the Demurrers to the second cause of action with 20 days leave to amend. 
 
Third Cause of Action
To state a
cause of action for breach of fiduciary duty, a plaintiff must allege: (1) the
existence of a fiduciary relationship; (2) breach of that relationship; and (3)
damages.  (Shopoff & Cavallo LLP
v. Hyon (2008) 167 Cal.App.4th 1489, 1509.) 

 
A fiduciary
relationship is any relation existing between parties to a transaction wherein
one of the parties is in duty bound to act with the utmost good faith for the
benefit of the other party.  (Wolf v.
Superior Court (2003) 107 Cal.App.4th 25, 29.)  Such a relation ordinarily arises where a
confidence is reposed by one person in the integrity of another, and in such a
relation the party in whom the confidence is reposed, if he voluntarily accepts
or assumes to accept the confidence, can take no advantage from his acts
relating to the interest of the other party without the latter's knowledge or
consent.  (Id.)  Before a person can be charged with a
fiduciary obligation, he must either knowingly undertake to act on behalf and
for the benefit of another or must enter into a relationship which imposes that
undertaking as a matter of law.  (Hasso
v. Hapke (2014) 227 Cal.App.4th 107, 140.) 
Fiduciary duties are imposed by law in certain technical, legal
relationships such as those between partners or joint venturers, trustees and
beneficiaries, principals and agents, and attorneys and clients.  (Id.) 
A fiduciary duty under common law may arise when one person enters into
a confidential relationship with another. 
(Id.)  Every contract to
some extent requires each party to repose trust and confidence in the other;
one party's right to contingent compensation, standing alone, does not
give rise to a fiduciary duty.  (City
of Hope National Medical Center v. Genentech, Inc. (2008) 43 Cal.4th 375,
391.)  Whether a fiduciary duty exists is
generally a question of law.  (Marzec
v. California Public Employees Retirement System (2015) 236 Cal.App.4th
889, 915.)  Whether the defendant
breached that duty towards the plaintiff is a question of
fact.  (Id.)
 
            The Complaint does not identify the
exact nature of the alleged fiduciary relationship between Plaintiff and Moving
Defendants, but the duty appears to be rooted in contract.  In light of the Court’s ruling on the first
cause of action, the Court SUSTAINS the Demurrers to the third cause of action
with 20 days leave to amend. 
 
Fourth Cause of Action
The elements
of intentional misrepresentation are: (1) misrepresentation; (2) knowledge of
falsity; (3) intent to defraud, i.e., to induce reliance; (4) justifiable
reliance; and (5) resulting damage.  (Golden
Eagle Land Investment, L.P. v. Rancho Santa Fe Assn. (2018) 19 Cal.App.5th
399, 428.)  
 
The elements
of promissory fraud¿ are: (1) a promise made regarding a material fact without
any intention of performing it; (2) the existence of the intent not to perform
at the time the promise was made; (3) intent to deceive or induce the promisee
to enter into a transaction; (4) reasonable reliance by the promisee; (5)
nonperformance by the party making the promise; and (6) resulting damage to the
promisee.  (Rossberg v. Bank of
America, N.A. (2013) 219 Cal.App.4th 1481, 1498.)  
 
Fraud claims
must be alleged with particularity.  (Golden
Eagle Land Investment, L.P. v. Rancho Santa Fe Assn. (2018) 19 Cal.App.5th
399, 428.)  The facts required to be pled
are facts that show how, when, where, to whom, and by what means the
representations were tendered.  (Lazar v. Superior Court (1996) 12
Cal.4th 631, 645.)  The heightened
pleading for standard for fraud claims is relaxed if it appears from the nature
of the allegations that the defendant must necessarily possess full
information, or if the facts lie more in the knowledge of opposing
parties.  (Alfaro v. Community Housing
Improvement System & Planning Assn., Inc. (2009) 171 Cal.App.4th 1356,
1384-85.)  
 
The
Complaint does not allege sufficiently specific facts to delineate the bases
for the fraud claims against Moving Defendants. 
Nor does the Complaint allege fraudulent intent.  The Court therefore SUSTAINS the Hossain, Karpus, and Nuthalapaty Demurrers to the fourth cause of action with
20 days leave to amend. 
 
Fifth Cause of Action
In relevant part, Penal Code section 496, subdivision (a) provides that
every person who buys or receives any property that has been stolen or that has
been obtained in any manner constituting theft or extortion, knowing the
property to be so stolen or obtained, or who conceals, sells, withholds, or
aids in concealing, selling, or withholding any property from the owner,
knowing the property to be so stolen or obtained, shall be punished by
imprisonment in a county jail for not more than one year, or imprisonment
pursuant to subdivision (h) of Penal Code section 1170.  (Pen. Code § 496, subd. (a).)  In addition, under Penal Code section 496,
subdivision (c), any person who has been injured by a violation of subdivision
(a) may bring an action for three times the amount of actual damages, if any, sustained by the
plaintiff, costs of suit, and reasonable attorney's fees.  (Pen. Code § 496, subd. (c).)  
 
The Complaint summarily alleges that Moving
Defendants received Plaintiff’s property under false pretenses, but does not
identify how any specific conduct amounts to theft or extortion under Penal
Code section 496.  The Court therefore
SUSTAINS the Hossain, Karpus, and Nuthalapaty Demurrers to the fifth cause of
action with 20 days leave to amend. 
 
Sixth Cause of Action
Treble damages may be awarded in
actions brought by, or on behalf of, or for the benefit of senior citizens or
disabled person to redress unfair or deceptive acts or practices or unfair
methods of competition.  (Civ. Code §
3345, subd. (a).)  Treble damages may be
awarded under Civil Code section 3345 only if the statute under which recovery
is sought permits a remedy that is in the nature of a penalty.  (Clark v. Superior Court (2010) 50
Cal.4th 605, 614.)  If a cause of action
is brought pursuant to a statute that allows the imposition of a fine or civil
penalty or other remedy with the purpose to punish or deter, the court may
award treble damages if: (1) the defendant knew or should have known that his
conduct was directed to one or more senior citizens or disabled persons; (2)
the defendant’s conduct caused one or more senior citizens or disabled persons
to suffer loss of encumbrance of a primary residence, principal employment or
source of income; substantial loss of property set aside for retirement, or for
personal or family care and maintenance, or substantial loss of payments
received under a pension or retirement plan; and (3) one or more senior
citizens or disabled persons are substantially more vulnerable than other
members of the public to the defendant’s conduct because of age, poor health or
infirmity and actually suffered substantial damage resulting from the
defendant’s conduct.  (Civ. Code § 3345,
subd. (b).)  
 
As a preliminary matter, Civil Code
section 3345 is a remedy rather than a cause of action.  In addition, the Complaint does not specify
the statute or statutes that form the basis for the request for treble
damages.  The Court therefore SUSTAINS
the Hossain, Karpus, and Nuthalapaty Demurrers to the sixth cause of action
with 20 days leave to amend. 
 
Seventh Cause of Action
The
elements of negligence are: (1) duty; (2) breach; (3) causation; and (4)
damages. (Peredia v. HR Mobile Services, Inc. (2018) 25 Cal.App.5th 680,
687.)  
 
The Hossain
Demurrer argues that the negligence claim is not clearly alleged.  The Court agrees—the Complaint fails to set
forth the duty that was allegedly breached. 
The Court therefore SUSTAINS the Hossain Demurrer to the seventh cause
of action with 20 days leave to amend. 
 
Eighth Cause of Action
            Health and Safety Code section 1430,
subdivision (b) permits civil actions to be brought against the licensee of a
facility under certain circumstances.  (See
Health & Saf. Code § 1430, subd. (b).)
 
 
            The
Demurrers argue that the Complaint fails to allege that Moving Defendants are
licensees.  Plaintiff’s opposition briefs
do not address this argument, and the Court therefore finds that Plaintiff has
conceded this argument.  (See Nelson
v. Pearson Ford Co. (2010) 186 Cal.App.4th 983, 1021.)  The Court therefore SUSTAINS the Hossain,
Karpus, and Nuthalapaty Demurrers to the eighth cause of action with 20 days
leave to amend. 
 
MOTIONS TO STRIKE
Under CCP
section 436, a motion to strike either: (1) strikes any irrelevant, false or
improper matter inserted in any pleading; or (2) strikes any pleading or part
thereof not drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of this state, a court
rule or order of court.  (CCP § 436, subds. (a)-(b).)
 
In light of
the Court’s rulings on the Demurrers, the Motions are MOOT.
 
 
Moving parties are
ordered to give notice of this ruling. 
 
 
 
Parties who intend to
submit on this tentative must send an email to the Court at
SMC_DEPT56@lacourt.org as directed by the instructions provided on the court
website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department does not receive an email
and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion will be placed off
calendar. 
 
  Dated
this 1st day of December 2023
 



  






Hon. Holly J. Fujie 
Judge of the Superior Court 
 





