  Case Number:  20STCV19331    Hearing Date:   December 1, 2023    Dept:  56  
 
 
 
SUPERIOR COURT OF THE
STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS
ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 
 



AIDAN SCIANDRA, et al., 
 
                        Plaintiffs,
            vs.
 
CHRONICPRACTOR
  CAREGIVER, INC., et al., 
 
                        Defendants.
 


 


      CASE NO.: 20STCV19331
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: MOTION FOR SUMMARY ADJUDICATION
 
Date:  December 1, 2023 
Time:
  8:30 a.m.
Dept.
  56
Jury
  Trial: April 29, 2024
 



AND RELATED CROSS-ACTION
 
MOVING PARTY: Plaintiffs/Cross-Defendants
Aidan Sciandra (“Sciandra”); Boualiene Syprasert (“Syprasert”); and Jack
Edjourian (“Edjourian”) (collectively, “Plaintiffs”)
 
            RESPONDING PARTY:
Defendants/Cross-Complainants Chronicpractor Caregiver, Inc. (“CCI”), Eric
Loyola (“Loyola”), and Daniela Alexander (“Alexander”) (collectively,
“Defendants”) 
 
            The Court has considered
the moving, opposition and reply papers. 

 
 
 
 
BACKGROUND
This action arises
out of a dispute concerning the ownership of a marijuana dispensary.  The currently operative third amended
complaint (the “TAC”) alleges: (1) breach of contract – equity purchase
agreement; (2) breach of contract – promissory note; (3) breach of contract –
security agreement; (4) breach of written contract by third party beneficiary;
(5) specific performance; (6) demand for accounting; and (7) unjust enrichment.

 
The currently
operative first amended cross-complaint (the “FAXC”) alleges: (1) breach of
contract; (2) breach of fiduciary duty of loyalty; (3) breach of fiduciary duty
of care; (4) aiding and abetting breach of fiduciary duty; (5) conversion; and
(6) conversion. 
 
In relevant part,
the TAC alleges: Plaintiffs and Defendants (collectively, the “Parties”)entered into three written
agreements pertaining to the ownership, management, and branding/licensing of a
marijuana dispensary, CCI: (1) a binding term sheet containing an equity
purchase agreement (the “Binding Term Sheet”); (2) a promissory note (the
“Promissory Note”); and (3) a pledge and security agreement (the “Pledge and
Security Agreement”) (collectively, the “Agreements”).  (See TAC ¶¶ 21-29.)  The Agreements set forth the terms of
Plaintiffs’ and Defendants’ plans for the ownership and management of CCI and
their intention to license Edjourian’s branding for the store.  (See,
e.g., TAC ¶¶ 16-17.)  Defendants failed to perform under all of the
Agreements.  (See TAC ¶¶ 38, 44, 50.)  
 
On August 30,
2023, Plaintiffs filed a motion for summary adjudication (the “Motion”).  Sciandra and Syprasert seek summary adjudication of the second cause of action
in the TAC and Edjourian seeks summary adjudication of the fourth cause of
action in the TAC.  Plaintiffs
collectively seek summary adjudication of the first, fifth, and sixth causes of
action in the FAXC and the 25th, 27th, 30th, and 33th affirmative defenses
raised in Defendants’ answer to the TAC (the “Answer”).  The Motion argues that Plaintiffs are
entitled to summary adjudication of these issues because the undisputed
material facts demonstrate that there are no triable issues of material fact
with respect to these claims and defenses.  

 
EVIDENTIARY OBJECTIONS
Plaintiffs’
objections to the Declaration of Eric Loyola (“Loyola Decl.”) numbers 1-3, 5-6,
and 9 are OVERRULED.  Plaintiffs’
objections to the Loyola Decl. numbers 4, 7, 8, and 10 are SUSTAINED.
 
Plaintiffs’
objections to the Declaration of Daniela Alexander (“Alexander Decl.”) numbers
11-14, 17, and 19 are OVERRULED. 
Plaintiffs’ objections to the Alexander Decl. numbers 15, 16, and 18 are
SUSTAINED.
 
Plaintiffs’
objections to Defendants’ Separate Statement of Additional Material Facts
(“AMF”) numbers 22-23 are OVERRULED. 
Plaintiffs’ objections to Defendants’ AMFs numbers 21 and 24-34 are
SUSTAINED. 
 
 
 
DISCUSSION
The function of a motion for summary
judgment or adjudication is to allow a determination as to whether an opposing
party cannot show evidentiary support for a pleading or claim and to enable an
order of summary dismissal without the need for trial.  (Aguilar
v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 843.)  California Code of Civil Procedure
(“CCP”) section 437c, subdivision (c) requires the trial judge to grant summary
judgment if all the evidence submitted, and all inferences reasonably deducible
from the evidence and uncontradicted by other inferences or evidence, show that
there is no triable issue as to any material fact and that the moving party is
entitled to judgment as a matter of law. 
(Adler v. Manor Healthcare Corp.
(1992) 7 Cal.App.4th 1110, 1119.)
 
A plaintiff moving
for summary judgment or summary adjudication meets the burden of showing that
there is no defense to a cause of action if the plaintiff has proved each
element of the cause of action entitling them to judgment on that cause of
action.  (CCP § 437c, subd. (p)(1).)  A defendant moving for summary judgment must
satisfy the initial burden of proof by presenting facts to negate an essential
element, or to establish a defense as to each claim as framed by the complaint.
 (CCP § 437c, subd. (p)(2); Scalf v. D. B. Log Homes, Inc. (2005)
128 Cal.App.4th 1510, 1520.)  
 
Summary
adjudication of an affirmative defense is properly granted when there is no
triable issue of material fact as to the defense and the moving party is
entitled to judgment on the defense as a matter of law.  (CCP § 437c, subds. (c), (f)(1); Kendall-Jackson
Winery, Ltd. v. Superior Court (2000) 76 Cal.App.4th 970, 977-78.)  The motion shall be supported by affidavits,
declarations, admissions, answers to interrogatories, depositions and matters
of which judicial notice shall or may be taken. 
(CCP §437c, subd. (b)(1).) When a plaintiff moves for summary
adjudication on an affirmative defense, the court shall grant the motion only
if it completely disposes of the defense. 
(CCP § 437c, subd. (f)(1).)  The
plaintiff bears the initial burden to show there is no triable issue of
material fact as to the defense and that he or she is entitled to judgment on
the defense as a matter of law.  (See’s
Candy Shops, Inc. v. Superior Court (2012) 210 Cal.App.4th 889, 900.)  In so doing, the plaintiff must negate an essential
element of the defense or establish that the defendant does not possess and
cannot reasonably obtain evidence needed to support the defense.  (Id.) 
If the plaintiff does not make this showing, it is unnecessary to
examine the defendant’s opposing evidence and the motion must be denied.  (Id.) 

 
Once the moving party has met their
burden, the burden shifts to the opposing party to show that a triable issue of
one or more material facts exists as to that cause of action or a defense
thereto.  To establish a triable issue of
material fact, the party opposing the motion must produce substantial
responsive evidence.  (Sangster v. Paetkau (1998) 68
Cal.App.4th 151, 166.)  Courts
liberally construe the evidence in support of the party opposing summary
judgment and resolve doubts concerning the evidence in favor of the opposing
party.  (Dore v. Arnold Worldwide, Inc. (2006) 39 Cal.4th 384, 389.)
 
 
 
 
Plaintiffs’ Evidence
The Binding
Term Sheet was entered into by Sciandra, Syprasert (both of whom are identified
in the document as “Investors”), Loyola, and Alexander.  (See Declaration of Aidan
Sciandra (“Sciandra Decl.”) ¶ 5, Exhibit 1.)  The Binding Term Sheet provides the terms of
an agreement for Sciandra and Syprasert to purchase and ownership interests in
CCI from Loyola and Alexander’s former business partners.  (See id.)  
 
The Binding
Term Sheet provides, in part:
 
“The Parties
acknowledge and agree that the Equity Purchases cannot be closed without
approval of the applicable governmental agencies and therefore, subject to
compliance with all applicable laws, the Parties have entered into that
certain: (i) Promissory Note Secured by Pledge of Stock…; and (ii) Pledge and
Security Agreement… . This Term Sheet, the Note and the Security Agreement
represent the total understanding of the Parties in connection with the Equity
Purchases and the other transactions contemplated hereby and thereby.  Notwithstanding anything contrary contained
in this Term Sheet, the Note and the Security Agreement, any default under the
Term Sheet, the Note or the Security Agreement shall be a default under the
Term Sheet, the Note and the Security Agreement.  Upon any Investor default hereunder, the Note
and Security Agreement shall [be] of no force or effect and any monies due
thereunder shall be deemed to be liquidated damages in connection with such
default.”  (Id.)
 
The Binding
Term Sheet contains a provision providing that the Investors (Sciandra and
Syprasert) agreed to pay Loyola and Alexander $750,000 each in equal monthly
installments over a 24-month period that were separate from their monthly
compensation.  (Id. at p. 3.)  The Binding Term Sheet
also includes a provision providing that the Parties agreed to collaborate to
negotiate a license agreement or some other form of agreement for the use of
the “Plug” brand name and the “Jack the Plug” persona.  (Id.)
 
The
Promissory Note was executed on October 3, 2019.  (UMF 5; see Sciandra
Decl., Exhibit 2.)  The Promissory Note
provides that Defendants agreed to repay $200,000 plus interest to Sciandra and
Syprasert on or before the second anniversary of the date of the Note.  (Id.)  
 
Sciandra
and Syprasert transferred $200,000 total to purchase the equity interests as
detailed in the Binding Term Sheet.  (UMF
10-11.)  Ownership of these interests was
transferred to CCI, and Defendants never undertook the agreed-upon actions to
secure government approvals for the interests to be transferred to Sciandra and
Syprasert.  (See UMF
13-18.)  The Parties’ business
relationship ended by March 1, 2020. 
(UMF 21.)  The debt memorialized
in the Promissory Note has not been repaid. 
(See UMF 23.)
 
Second Cause of Action
The elements
of a claim for breach of contract are: (1) the contract; (2) the plaintiff’s
performance or excuse for nonperformance; (3) the defendant’s breach; and (4)
damage to plaintiff therefrom.  (Wall Street Network, Ltd. v. New York Times
Co. (2008) 164 Cal.App.4th 1171, 1178.) 

 
It is
undisputed that the amount owed under the Promissory Note has not been
repaid.  While the Motion provides
evidence that Sciandra and Syprasert performed under the Binding Term Sheet by wiring
money to purchase shares of CCI, the Motion does not provide evidence that they
performed
their promise to pay $750,000 to Loyola and Alexandra in equal monthly
installments.  Defendants contend
Sciandra and Sysrapert failed to make these payments, and that Defendants’
performance was therefore excused.  
 
Construing
the evidence in Defendants’ favor, the Court finds that there are factual
issues regarding the interrelationship of the Parties’ obligations under the
Agreements and the enforceability of the liquidated damages clause in the
Binding Term Sheet that preclude summary adjudication of the second cause of
action. The Court therefore DENIES the Motion as to the second cause of action
of the TAC.  For the same reason, the
Court also DENIES the Motion as to the fourth cause of action of the TAC, the
first cause of action of the FAXC, and the 25th, 27th, 30th, and 33th
affirmative defenses.
 
Fifth and Sixth Causes of Action
of the FAXC
The elements of
conversion are: (1) the
plaintiff’s ownership or right to possession of the property; (2) the
defendant’s conversion by a wrongful act or disposition of property rights; and
(3) damages.  (Hodges v. County of Placer (2019)
41 Cal.App.5th 537, 551.)  Money cannot be the subject of a cause of
action for conversion unless there is a specific, identifiable sum involved,
such as where an agent accepts a sum of money to be paid to another and fails
to make the payment.  (McKell v.
Washington Mutual, Inc. (2006) 142 Cal.App.4th 1457, 1491.)  
 
            The
FAXC alleges: Edjourian wrongfully took $78,000 from CCI’s safe under the guise
that this amount was owed to Sciandra and Syprasert for their ownership
interests.  (FAXC ¶ 62.)  Sciandra wrongfully took $22,000 from CCI’s
safe.  (FAXC 67.)
 
 
            Plaintiffs
provide evidence that Edjourian was authorized to take the $78,000 and used the
amount to remodel CCI.  (UMF 60.)  CCI’s bookkeeper has no knowledge of Sciandra
removing $22,000 from CCI’s safe.  (UMF
61.)  CCI’s written records of money
being taken in and out of its safe show one $15,000 discrepancy and several
other minor discrepancies, and Defendants have not produced any documents that
support their allegation that Sciandra removed $22,000 from the safe without
their consent.  (See UMF 65-66.)
 
            The
Court finds that Plaintiffs have met their burden to show that there are no
triable issues of material fact regarding the two conversion claims alleged in
the FAXC.  Defendants have not provided
evidence that puts the facts presented in support of the Motion at issue.  The Court therefore GRANTS the Motion with
respect to the fifth and sixth causes of action in the FAXC. 
 
 
 
Moving party is
ordered to give notice of this ruling. 
 
 
 
 
Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must send an email to
the Court at SMC_DEPT56@lacourt.org as directed by the instructions provided on
the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department does not receive
an email and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion will be placed
off calendar. 
 
            Dated this 1st day of December 2023
 




 


 




 


Hon.
  Holly J. Fujie
Judge
  of the Superior Court
 




 
 
 
 
 
 