 Case Number:  21STCV26485    Hearing Date:   November 5, 2024    Dept:  29 Enlow v.
Starline Tours of Hollywood
21STCV26485
Plaintiff’s Motion for Leave to File First Amended Complaint
Tentative
The motion
is denied without prejudice.
Background
On July
19, 2021, Cheryl D. Enlow (“Plaintiff”) filed a complaint against Starline
Tours of Hollywood, Inc. (“Starline”) and Does 1 through 20 for negligence
arising out of an incident on July 26, 2019, in which Plaintiff alleges that
she was injured while attempting to board a tour bus or other tour vehicle.
(Complaint, ¶¶ 7-8.)
On April
3, 2023, Starline filed an answer. 
On
February 2, 2024, Plaintiff amended the complaint to name Gaw Capital
Investments, LLC dba Ovation Hollywood (“Gaw”) as Doe 1 and DJM Capital
Partners, Inc. dba Ovation Hollywood (“DJM”) as Doe 2.  Default was entered against Gaw and DJM on
June 21, 2024.
On June
28, 2024, Plaintiff amended the complaint to name CIM Group, L.P. as Doe 3 and CIM
Group Acquisitions, LLC as Doe 4.
On September
25, 2024, the Court overruled the demurrer filed by CIM Group, L.P. and CIM
Group Acquisitions, LLC (collectively, the “CIM Defendants”).  On the same day, the Court granted, without
leave to amend, the motion filed by the CIM Defendants to strike the prayer for
punitive damages against the CIM Defendants in the complaint.
On
October 2, 2024, the CIM Defendants filed an answer to the complaint.
On
October 14, 2024, Plaintiff filed this motion for leave to file a First Amended
Complaint (“FAC”).  Plaintiff also submitted
(on October 14) and served (on October 9) a copy of the proposed FAC. 
The CIM
Defendants filed an opposition on October 23. 
Plaintiff filed and served an untimely reply on October 30.
Legal
Standard
 
Code of
Civil Procedure section 473, subdivision (a)(1), provides, in relevant
part:  
“The
court may, in furtherance of justice, and on any terms as may be proper, allow
a party to amend any pleading or proceeding by adding or striking out the name
of any party, or by correcting a mistake in the name of a party, or a mistake
in any other respect; and may, upon like terms, enlarge the time for answer or
demurrer.  The court may likewise, in its
discretion, after notice to the adverse party, allow, upon any terms as may be
just, an amendment to any pleading or proceeding in other particulars; and may
upon like terms allow an answer to be made after the time limited by this
code.”  
“This
discretion should be exercised liberally in favor of amendments, for judicial
policy favors resolution of all disputed matters in the same lawsuit.”  (Kittredge Sports Co. v. Superior Court
(1989) 213 Cal.App.3d 1045, 1047.) 
Ordinarily, the court will not consider the validity of the proposed
amended pleading in ruling on a motion for leave since grounds for a demurrer
or motion to strike are premature.  The
court, however, does have discretion to deny leave to amend where a proposed
amendment fails to state a valid cause of action as a matter of law and the
defect cannot be cured by further amendment. 
(See California Casualty General Ins. Co. v. Superior Court (1985)
173 Cal.App.3d 274, 281, overruled on other grounds by Kransco v. American
Empire Surplus Lines Ins. Co. (2000) 23 Cal.4th 390.) 
Under California
Rules of Court, rule 3.1324(a), a motion to amend a pleading shall (1) include
a copy of the proposed amendment or amended pleading, which must be serially
numbered to differentiate it from previous pleadings or amendments; (2) state
what allegations in the previous pleading are proposed to be deleted, if any,
and where, by page, paragraph and line number, the deleted allegations are
located; and (3) state what allegations are proposed to be added to the
previous pleading, if any, and where, by page, paragraph, and line number, the
additional allegations are located.  
Rule
3.1324(b) further provides that a separate declaration must accompany the
motion and must specify (1) the effect of the amendment; (2) why the amendment
is necessary and proper; (3) when the facts giving rise to the amended
allegations were discovered; and (4) the reasons why the request for amendment
was not made earlier.  
Even if
a good amendment is proposed in proper form, a long, unwarranted and unexcused
delay in presenting it may be a good reason for denial.  In most cases, the factors for timeliness
are: (1) lack of diligence in discovering the facts or in offering the
amendment after knowledge of them; and (2) the effect of the delay on the
adverse party.  If the party seeking the
amendment has been dilatory, and the delay has prejudiced the opposing party,
the judge has discretion to deny leave to amend.  (Hirsa v. Superior Court (1981) 118
Cal.App.3d 486, 490.)  Prejudice may be
shown, in certain circumstances, where the amendment would require delaying the
trial, where critical evidence has been lost, or where the amendment would
unfairly add to the costs of preparation for trial, such as an increased burden
of discovery.  (Magpali v. Farmers
Group, Inc. (1996) 48 Cal.App.4th 471, 486-488.) 
Discussion
Plaintiff
seeks leave to file the proposed FAC to add certain details to the negligence
cause of action. 
As a
threshold matter, the Court finds that the procedural requirements for the
motion under California Rules of Court, rule 3.1324(b), have not been
satisfied.  Plaintiff did not submit a
declaration with the motion explaining when the facts giving rise to the
amended allegations were discovered and why the request for amendment was not
made earlier.  Plaintiff did submit declarations
with her reply, but the reply was untimely, and even those declarations do not
satisfy the requirements of the Rules of Court.
 
Accordingly,
the motion is denied without prejudice.  
 
In light
of the liberal standard for amendments to a complaint, the Court encourages counsel
to explore the potential for a stipulation to allow an amended pleading.
 
If a new
motion is filed, Plaintiff is advised that the Court expects strict compliance
with the requirements of Rule 3.1324(a) & (b).
 
Conclusion
 
Accordingly, Plaintiff’s motion for leave to amend
is DENIED WITHOUT PREJUDICE. 
 
Moving
Party is to give notice.