 Case Number:  22STCV25497    Hearing Date:   November 5, 2024    Dept:  29 Calderon v. Sofi Stadium
22STCV25497
Motion to be Relieved as Counsel, filed by Plaintiff Crystal Calderon’s Counsel
Daniel Moossai, Esq. of the Downtown LA Law Group.
Motion to be Relieved as Counsel, filed by Plaintiff Maria
Esther Gonsalez’s Counsel Daniel Moossai, Esq. of the Downtown LA Law Group. 
 
Tentative
The motions to be relieved as counsel are granted.
Background
On August 8, 2022, Crystal Calderon and Maria
Esther Gonsalez (collectively “Plaintiffs”) filed a complaint against Sofi Stadium,
City of Inglewood, County of Los Aneles, California Department of
Transportation, Pincay Re, LLC, and Stadco LA, LLC for general negligence and premises
liability causes of action arising from Plaintiff Gonsalez falling out of her
wheelchair on August 28, 2021. 
No defendant has appeared in this matter.
On October 11,
2024, Daniel Moossai, Esq. of the Downtown LA Law
Group (“Counsel”) filed these motions to be relieved as counsel for
Plaintiffs. 
 
No opposition
has been filed. 
 
Legal
Standard
The court may order that an attorney be changed or
substituted at any time before or after judgment or final determination upon
request by either client or attorney and after notice from one to the other.
(Code of Civ. Proc., § 284(b).) An attorney is permitted to withdraw where
conflicts between the attorney and client make it unreasonable to continue the
representation. (See Cal. Rules of Prof. Conduct 3-700(C)(1).) “The
determination whether to grant or deny a motion to withdraw as counsel lies
within the sound discretion of the trial court.” (Manfredi & Levine v.
Superior Court (1998) 66 Cal.App.4th 1128, 1133.)   
 
An application to be relieved as counsel must be made on
Judicial Counsel Form MC-051 (Notice of Motion and Motion) (Cal. Rules of
Court, rule 3.1362(a)), MC-052 (Declaration) (Cal. Rules of Court, rule
3.136(c)), and MC-053 (Proposed Order) (Cal. Rules of Court, rule
3.1362(e)).   
 
Further, the requisite forms must be served on the client
and all other parties who have appeared in the case. (Cal. Rules of Court,
rule 3.1362(d).) The court may delay effective date of the order relieving
counsel until proof of service of a copy of the signed order on the client has
been filed with the court. (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1362(e).) 
 
Discussion
 
Counsel has
filed the Notice, Declaration and Order to be Relieved as Counsel. 
 
Counsel states there
has been a breakdown of the attorney-client relationship between Counsel and
Plaintiffs. Counsel states he has been unable to confirm Plaintiffs’ addresses,
but took the following steps to locate a more current address: (1) mailing the
motion papers to Plaintiffs’ last known addresses with return receipt
requested, (2) calling Plaintiffs’ last known telephone numbers, and (3) conducting
a TLO search.
 
The Court finds
there is good cause to relieve Counsel as attorney of record. 
 
Accordingly, the
motion is GRANTED.
The Court notes
that the upcoming hearing dates on the Declaration and Orders are no longer
correct.  
Conclusion
The motions to
be relieved as counsel is GRANTED.
The Court
directs the Judicial Assistant to correct the dates on the proposed orders.
The orders are effective
upon filing with the Court a proof of service showing service of the signed
order (not just the minute order) on the client.
Moving counsel
to give notice.