 Case Number:  23STCV09646    Hearing Date:   November 5, 2024    Dept:  29 Lee v. Shanklin
23STCV09646
Motion to be Relieved as Counsel, filed by Plaintiff’s Counsel
Mindy Susan Bish of Bish & Cutting, APC.
 
Tentative
Motion to be relieved as counsel is granted.
Background
On May 1, 2023, Maurice Lee (“Plaintiff”)
filed a complaint against Trisha Shanklin (“Defendant”) for motor vehicle
negligence cause of action arising out of an automobile accident occurring on May
13, 2021. 
Defendant has not yet appeared in this
matter.
On October 7,
2024, Mindy Susan Bish of Bish & Cutting, APC (“Counsel”)
filed these motions to be relieved as counsel for Plaintiffs. No opposition has
been filed. 
 
Legal
Standard
The court may order that an attorney be changed or
substituted at any time before or after judgment or final determination upon
request by either client or attorney and after notice from one to the other.
(Code of Civ. Proc., § 284(b).) An attorney is permitted to withdraw where
conflicts between the attorney and client make it unreasonable to continue the
representation. (See Cal. Rules of Prof. Conduct 3-700(C)(1).) “The
determination whether to grant or deny a motion to withdraw as counsel lies
within the sound discretion of the trial court.” (Manfredi & Levine v.
Superior Court (1998) 66 Cal.App.4th 1128, 1133.)   
 
An application to be relieved as counsel must be made on
Judicial Counsel Form MC-051 (Notice of Motion and Motion) (Cal. Rules of
Court, rule 3.1362(a)), MC-052 (Declaration) (Cal. Rules of Court, rule
3.136(c)), and MC-053 (Proposed Order) (Cal. Rules of Court, rule
3.1362(e)).   
 
Further, the requisite forms must be served on the client
and all other parties who have appeared in the case. (Cal. Rules of Court,
rule 3.1362(d).) The court may delay effective date of the order relieving
counsel until proof of service of a copy of the signed order on the client has
been filed with the court. (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1362(e).) 
 
Discussion
 
Counsel has
filed the Notice, Declaration and Order to be Relieved as Counsel. Counsel contends
there has been a breakdown of the attorney-client relationship. Counsel states Plaintiff
refuses to confirm his address; however, Counsel took the following steps to
confirm Plaintiff’s current address: (1) mailing the motion papers to Plaintiffs’
last known addresses with return receipt requested, and (2) conducting a public
record search.
 
The Court finds
there is good cause to relieve Counsel as attorney of record. 
 
Accordingly, the
motion is GRANTED.
The Court notes
that the upcoming hearing dates on the Declaration and Orders are no longer
correct. 
 
Conclusion
The motion to be
relieved as counsel is GRANTED.
The Court
directs the Judicial Assistant to correct the dates in the proposed order.
The order is
effective upon filing with the Court a proof of service showing service of the
signed order (not just the minute order) on the client.
Moving counsel
to give notice.