 Case Number:  21STCV27469    Hearing Date:   November 5, 2024    Dept:  29 Cervantes v. County of Los Angeles  21STCV27469  Motion for Summary Judgment, filed by Defendant City of Cudahy   TENTATIVE The  motion is DENIED. BackgroundOn July 27, 2021, Francisco Javier Cervantes
(“Plaintiff”) filed a complaint against County of Los Angeles (“County”), City
of Cudahy (“City”), Bill Greene Sports Complex (“BGSC”), and Does 1 through 50,
seeking recovery for damages arising out of an incident on January 12, 2021, in
which Plaintiff alleges that he fell through “an unsecured sky light located on
the roof of the subject premises, causing Plaintiff to fall several feet to the
ground … and sustain bodily injuries.” (Complaint, ¶ 7.) On October 18, 2022, the Court, at the
request of Plaintiff, dismissed all causes of action asserted against County.On January 12, 2023, Plaintiff filed a First
Amended Complaint (“FAC”). In the FAC, Plaintiff asserts causes of action for a
dangerous condition of public property and negligence against the same
defendants. Plaintiff alleges that at the time of his fall, he was employed by a
nonparty and was working “to repair and assist with the repairs of cell towers
located on the rooftop” of the sports complex. (FAC. ¶ 7.) On April 21, 2023, City filed an answer to
the FAC.On October 31, 2023, City filed this motion for
summary judgment, along with a request for judicial notice. Plaintiff filed his opposition on October 22,
2024, along with objections to some of City’s evidence.City filed its reply on October 31, 2024, along
with objections to some of Plaintiff’s evidence.Legal Standard“The purpose
of the law of summary judgment is to provide courts with a mechanism to cut
through the parties’ pleadings in order to determine whether, despite their
allegations, trial is in fact necessary to resolve their dispute.” (Aguilar
v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 843.) Code of Civil
Procedure section 437c, subdivision (c), “requires the trial judge to grant
summary judgment if all the evidence submitted, and ‘all inferences reasonably
deducible from the evidence’ and uncontradicted by other inferences or
evidence, show that there is no triable issue as to any material fact and that
the moving party is entitled to judgment as a matter of law.” (Adler v.
Manor Healthcare Corp. (1992) 7 Cal.App.4th 1110, 1119.) “The function of
the pleadings in a motion for summary judgment is to delimit the scope of the
issues; the function of the affidavits or declarations is to disclose whether
there is any triable issue of fact within the issues delimited by the
pleadings.” (Juge v. County of Sacramento (1993) 12 Cal.App.4th 59, 67,
citing FPI Development, Inc. v. Nakashima (1991) 231 Cal.App.3d 367,
381-382.)As to each
cause of action as framed by the complaint, a defendant moving for summary
judgment or summary adjudication must satisfy the initial burden of proof by
presenting facts to show “that one or more elements of the cause of action ...
cannot be established, or that there is a complete defense to the cause of
action.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (p)(2); see also Aguilar, supra,
25 Cal.4th at pp. 850-851; Scalf v. D. B. Log Homes, Inc. (2005) 128
Cal.App.4th 1510, 1520.) Once the defendant has met that burden, the burden
shifts to the plaintiff to show that a “triable issue of one or more material
facts exists as to the cause of action or a defense thereto.” (Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 437c, subd. (p)(2); see also Aguilar, supra, 25 Cal.4th at pp.
850-851.)A plaintiff or
cross-complainant moving for summary judgment or summary adjudication must
satisfy the initial burden of proof by presenting facts to show “that there is
no defense to a cause of action if that party has proved each element of the
cause of action entitling the party to judgment on the cause of action.” (Code
Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (p)(1).) Once the plaintiff or cross-complainant has
met that burden, the burden shift to the defendant or cross-defendant to show
that a “triable issue of one or more material facts exists as to the cause of
action or a defense thereto.” (Ibid.)The party
opposing a motion for summary judgment or summary adjudication may not simply
“rely upon the allegations or denials of its pleadings” but must instead “set
forth the specific facts showing that a triable issue of material fact exists.”
(Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subds. (p)(1) & (p)(2). To establish a triable
issue of material fact, the party opposing the motion must produce substantial
responsive evidence. (Sangster v. Paetkau (1998) 68 Cal.App.4th 151,
166.)Courts
“liberally construe the evidence in support of the party opposing summary
judgment and resolve doubts concerning the evidence in favor of that party.” (Dore
v. Arnold Worldwide, Inc. (2006) 39 Cal.4th 384, 389.)Request for Judicial NoticeCity requests Judicial Notice of Plaintiff’s
FAC and City’s answer. While almost certainly unnecessary, the request is
granted.Objections to EvidenceEach party objects to some of the
evidence submitted by the other. Evidence presented in support of, or in
opposition to, a motion for summary judgment must be admissible. (Code Civ.
Proc., § 437c, subd. (d); Perry v.
Bakewell Hawthorne LLC (2017) 2
Cal.5th 536, 541-43.) The court must “consider all of the evidence set forth in the papers, except the
evidence to which objections have been made and sustained.” (Code Civ. Proc., §
437c, subd. (c).)Plaintiff asserts three objections to the
Declaration of Richard Iglesias and four objections to exhibits submitted by
City. The Court SUSTAINS Plaintiff’s objections to paragraphs 6 and 7 of the
Declaration of Mr. Iglesias (lack of foundation/personal knowledge). The Court
SUSTAINS Plaintiff’s objection to Exhibit 8 (lack of authentication based on
personal knowledge). The Court OVERRULES Plaintiff’s other objections.City asserts approximately 57 unnumbered objections
to the Declaration of Brad P. Avrit, PE submitted by Plaintiff. The Court
SUSTAINS City’s objections to paragraph 10, the first two sentences of
paragraph 11, the first sentence of paragraph 12, and paragraph 23 (improper
expert opinion/legal argument). The Court OVERRULES City’s other objections.The Court
finds that Mr. Avritt has appropriate credentials and his testimony relates to a subject that is sufficiently beyond common experience
that the opinion of an expert witness would assist the trier of act; is based
on information of the type on which an expert may reasonably rely; is based on
reasons supported by the information on which the expert relies; and is not
speculative. (Evid. Code, §§ 801-802; Sargon Enterprises v. USC (2012)
55 Cal.4th 747, 771-21.) The Court
recognizes that Mr. Avrit opines that there was a dangerous condition present
at the scene of the accident. This testimony is not binding on the Court and
does not in itself create a disputed issue of material fact on a motion for
summary judgment. “The fact that a witness can be found to opine
that … a condition constitutes a significant risk and a dangerous condition
does not eliminate this court’s statutory task pursuant to Government Code
section 830.2, of independently evaluating the circumstances.” (Thimon v.
City of Newark (2020) 44 Cal.App.5th 745, 755; accord Sun v. City of
Oakland (2008) 166 Cal.App.4th 1177, 1189; Davis v. City of Pasadena
(1996) 42 Cal.App.4th 701, 705.) But expert opinion may be admissible,
relevant, and helpful to the Court, even if it is not determinative. The Court will consider all of the admissible evidence (including
the expert opinion evidence as to which no objection is sustained) in
conducting its independent obligation (in which expert opinion evidence is not determinative)
to evaluate whether the existence of a dangerous condition may be resolved on
this record as a matter of law.DiscussionThis case arises out of a work-related injury that
occurred on January 12, 2021, at the Bill Greene Sports Complex on Clara Street
in Cudahy. (Defendant’s Statement of Undisputed Material Facts [“DSUMF”], Nos.
1-2.) The premises are owned by City. (DSUMF, No. 3; Plaintiff’s Statement of
Additional Material Facts [“PSAMF”], No. 2.)City previously leased a portion of the
premises for use as cell phone towers to a predecessor of T-Mobile USA, Inc.
(“T-Mobile”). (DSUMF, No. 4; PSAMF, No. 3.) T-Mobile hired UOS Construction,
Inc. (“UOS”) to perform repair work on the cell phone towers on the premises.
(DSUMF, No. 5; PSAMF, No. 4.) UOS hired Plaintiff (and others) for the work.
(DSUMF, No. 6; PSAMF, Nos. 5-6.)  Plaintiff was injured when he fell through a
skylight located on the roof of the premises. (DSUMF, No. 8; PSAMF, Nos. 7-13.)
Plaintiff lost his balance and, while attempting to steady himself, placed his
hands behind him. (PSAMF, Nos. 11-12.) As he did so, he came into contact with
the skylight and fell through it. (PSAMF, Nos. 12-13.)At the time of the accident, he was working as
an employee of UOS performing repair work on the cell phone towers. (DSUMF, No.
7; PSAMF, Nos. 1, 6.) Plaintiff received his work instructions solely from UOS
and was trained and supervised by UOS. (DSUMF, Nos. 10-11, 14, 17.) Neither City nor T-Mobile provided Plaintiff
with training, tools, instructions for this work. (DSUMF, Nos. 12-13, 17.)
There were no employees of City or T-Mobile on the roof at the time of the
accident. (DSUMF, No. 16.)There were 12 skylights on the roof of the
premises. (PSAMF, No. 14.) The skylight through which Plaintiff fell was
located within six feet of the nearest cell tower on which Plaintiff was
performing repairs. (PSAMF, Nos. 15-16.)Although a portion of the premises was leased
to T-Mobile, City had received several proposals or bids for work on the roof.
(PSAMF, No. 21.) City did not take any action to replace the roof or perform
major repairs on the roof or the skylights prior to the accident at issue
(PSAMF, Nos. 23-24, 26.) The skylights were approximately 29 years old at the
time of the accident. (PSAMF, No. 25.) The skylight at issue was degraded to
some degree by ultraviolet light from the sun over time. (PSAMF, No. 28.)There was no skylight screen or guardrails in
place at the time of the accident. (PSAMF, Nos. 29-30.) There were no fall
protections in place. (PSAMF, No. 32.) Nor were there warning signs. (PSAMF,
No. 31.)Based on this incident, Plaintiff asserts a
single cause of action against City in the FAC, alleging that he was injured as
a result of a dangerous condition on public property under Government Code
section 835. As set forth in
the statute, there are four elements for such a claim: “[A] public entity is liable for injury
caused by a dangerous condition of its property if the plaintiff establishes
[1] that the property was in a dangerous condition at the time of the injury,
[2] that the injury was proximately caused by the dangerous condition, [3] that
the dangerous condition created a reasonably foreseeable risk of the kind of
injury which was incurred, and [4] either: (a) A negligent or
wrongful act or omission of an employee of the public entity within the scope
of his employment created the dangerous condition; or¿(b) The public entity had
actual or constructive notice of the dangerous condition under Section 835.2 a
sufficient time prior to the injury to have taken measures to protect against
the dangerous condition.”(Gov. Code, § 835; see
also, e.g., Tansavatdi v. City of Rancho Palos
Verdes (2023) 14 Cal.5th 639, 653; Thimon, supra, 44 Cal.App.5th at p. 753.)  City moves for
summary judgment on essentially two grounds: (1) that City did
not owe a duty to Plaintiff under the Privette Doctrine; and (2) that
there was no dangerous condition on the roof because the danger from falling
through a skylight was readily apparent to any person using reasonable care. The
Court addresses each of these arguments in turn. The Privette DoctrineCity’s primary argument is that under the rule of Privette
v. Superior Court (1993) 5 Cal.4th 689, and its progeny, City owed no duty
to Plaintiff and breached no duty to Plaintiff, and that therefore Plaintiff’s
claims against City are barred as a matter of law. In Privette and
subsequent cases, courts have repeatedly affirmed the rule that when a person
or entity hires an independent contractor to provide work or services, and one
of the contractor’s employees is injured on the job, the hirer is generally not
liable to the employee. (Id., at p. 702; see also, e.g., Gonzalez v.
Mathis (2021) 12 Cal.5th 29, 41 [“we have repeatedly reaffirmed the basic
rule that a hirer is typically not liable for injuries sustained by an
independent contractor or its workers while on the job”]; Camargo v. Tjaarda
Dairy (2001) 25 Cal.4th 1235, 1244-1245.)Initially, the California Supreme Court based this
rule primarily on the existence of the worker’s compensation remedial scheme.
As the cases explained: (1) workers compensation coverage generally provides
the exclusive remedy for injuries sustained at work; and (2) the hirer (the
owner of the work premises or the person or entity that hires a contractor to
provide services through the contractor’s employees) “should be subject to no
greater liability” than the contractor. (Privette, supra, 5 Cal.4th at
p. 699.) “[T]he rule of workers’ compensation exclusivity, which shields an
independent contractor who pays workers’ compensation insurance premiums from
further liability to its employees for on-the-job injuries, should equally
protect the property owner who, in hiring the contractor, is indirectly paying
for the cost of such coverage, which the contractor presumably has calculated
into the contract price. Therefore, … the property owner should not have to pay
for injuries caused by the contractor’s negligent performance of the work when
workers’ compensation statutes already cover those injuries.”(Ibid.) In the decades since the Privette decision,
courts have “recast [the] primary rationale for the Privette doctrine in
terms of delegation rather than workers’ compensation.” (Sandoval v.
Qualcomm (2021) 12 Cal.5th 256, 270.) “There is a strong presumption under
California law that a hirer of an independent contractor delegates to the
contractor all responsibility for workplace safety.” (Gonzalez, supra, 12
Cal.5th at p. 37.) “This means that a hirer is typically not liable for
injuries sustained by an independent contractor or its workers while on the
job.” (Id., at pp. 37-38.) “When a person or organization hires an independent contractor, the hirer
presumptively delegates to the contractor the responsibility to do the work
safely. … This presumption is grounded in two major principles: first, that
independent contractors by definition ordinarily control he manner of their own
work; and second, that hirers typically hire independent contractors precisely
for their greater ability to perform the contracted work safely and
successfully.”(Sandoval, supra, at p. 269.) The hirer, in
contrast, “is typically less knowledgeable and more poorly positioned to
prevent injury to the contract workers than the contractor is.” (Id. at
p. 270.) Accordingly, “A person or entity hiring an independent contractor (a
‘hirer’) ordinarily delegates to that independent contractor all responsibility
for the safety of the contractor’s workers.” (Id. at p. 264; see also,
e.g., Seabright Ins. Co. v. U.S. Airways, Inc. (2011) 52 Cal.4th 590,
597 [“Our decisions recognize a presumptive delegation of responsibility for
workplace safety from the hirer to the independent contractor, and a
concomitant delegation of duty.”]; Tverberg v. Fillner Construction, Inc. (2012)
202 Cal.App.4th 1439, 1445 [“When a hirer delegates contracted work to an
independent contractor, it also impliedly delegates its duty to provide a safe
workplace to that contractor. In these circumstances, the hirer has no duty and
the contractor may not recover from the hirer for his or her injuries.”].)The California Supreme Court has recognized two
primary exceptions to the Privette doctrine. First, the hirer may be
liable where it “retains control over the contractor’s work and actually
exercises that control in a way that affirmatively contributes to the worker’s
injury.” (Sandoval, supra, 12 Cal.5th at p. 264; see also, e.g., Gonzalez,
supra, 12 Cal.5th at p. 38.) This is sometimes referred to as the “Hooker
exception,” named after the California Supreme Court case in which the
exception was recognized, Hooker v. Department of Transportation (2002)
27 Cal.4th 198, 202. The Hooker exception applies only when the evidence
shows “not only that the hirer retained control over the contracted work, but
also that the hirer actually exercised that retained control in a manner than
affirmatively contributed to the contract worker’s injury.” (Sandoval,
supra, 12 Cal.5th at p. 274.) Merely retaining the right to become involved
is not sufficient; rather, there must be evidence that through (for example)
“direction” or “participation,” the hirer actually “involve[d] itself in the
contracted work” to such an extent that the contractor was “not entirely free
to do the work in the contractor’s own manner.” (Sandoval, supra, 12
Cal.5th at p. 276; see also, e.g., Gonzalez, supra, 12 Cal.5th at p. 42;
Tverberg, supra, 202 Cal.App.4th at pp. 1446-1448.) If the immediate cause of the worker’s injury is the
conduct of the contractor, a plaintiff must show that “the hirer in some
respect induced – not just failed to prevent – the contractor’s injury-causing
conduct.” (Sandoval, supra, 12 Cal.5th at p. 277.) Alternatively, a
plaintiff may demonstrate affirmative conduct by the hirer through evidence
that “the hirer’s exercise of retained control contribute[d] to the injury
independently of the contractor’s contribution (if any) to the injury.” (Ibid.)  Second, the hirer may also be liable where it
“withholds critical information regarding a concealed hazard.” (Id., at
p. 264.) This is sometimes referred to as the “Kinsman exception,” named
after the California Supreme Court case in which the exception was recognized, Kinsman
v. Unocal Corp. (2005) 37 Cal.4th 659. Although the hirer ordinarily “turns
over control of the worksite to the contractor so that the contract can perform
the contracted work,” the hirer may still be liable under the Kinsman exception
for injuries resulting from a “hazard that the hirer either knows or reasonably
should know exists, and that the contractor does not know exists and could not
reasonably discover without the hirer’s disclosure.” (Sandoval, supra, 12
Cal.5th at pp. 271-272; see also, e.g., Gonzalez, supra, 12 Cal.5th at
pp. 38, 42-43; Kinsman, supra, 37 Cal.4th at p. 664.) The Kinsman exception is a limited in scope.
As the California Supreme Court explained in Kinsman:[W]hen there is a known safety hazard on a hirer’s premises that can be
addressed through reasonably safety precautions on the part of the independent
contract, a corollary of Privette and its progeny is that the hirer
generally delegate the responsibility to take such precautions to the
contractor, and is not liable to the contractor’s employee if the contractor
fails to do so. We see no persuasive reason why this principle should not apply
when the safety hazard is caused by a preexisting condition on the property,
rather than by the method in which the work is conducted.(37 Cal.4th at pp. 673-674.) The landowner or hirer
may be liable only when the hazard “is concealed from the contractor.” (Id.
at p. 674.) For the exception to apply, there must be a showing that (1) the
landowner or hirer “knows or reasonably should know of a concealed, preexisting
hazardous condition on its premises”; (2) the contractor “does not know and
counsel not reasonably ascertain the condition”; and (3) the landowner or hirer
does not warn the contractor. (Id. at p. 675.) The Kinsman exception
does not apply, however, to apparent or other hazards known to the contractor.
(Gonzalez, supra, at pp. 45-53.) The Second District Court of Appeal recently
addressed the scope of the Kinsman exception in Acosta v. MAS Realty,
LLC (2023) 96 Cal.App.5th 635, a detailed and thorough opinion authored by
Justice Edmon. The basic delegation principle of the Privette doctrine,
as summarized in Acosta, is as follows: “Because the hirer presumptively
delegates to the independent contractor the authority to determine the manner
in which the work is to be performed, the contractor also assumes the
responsibility to ensure that the worksite is safe, and the work is performed
safely.” (Id., at p. 650.)Moreover, the
contractor’s duty to inspect and to identify safety hazards is not narrowly
limited to “the scope of the work [the contractor] was hired to do.” (Id.
at p. 661.) As Justice Edmon explains:“[Plaintiff] is correct that an independent
contractor does not have a duty to inspect all of the landowner’s property or
to identify hazards wholly outside of [the contractor’s] area of expertise. But
a landowner who hires an independent contractor presumptively delegates to that
contractor its tort law duty to provide a safe workplace for the contractor’s
employees, and thus the independent contractor has a duty to determine whether
its employees can safely perform the work they have been hired to do. That
includes a duty to inspect not only the worksite itself, but the means to
access the worksite.”(Id. at
pp. 661-662 [citations omitted]; see also Gonzalez, supra, 12 Cal.5th at
p. 55 [holding that a contractor had a duty to inspect the path that workers
will need to travel to reach the worksite]; Tverberg v. Fillner
Construction, Inc. (2010) 49 Cal.4th 518, 529 [same]; Blaylock v. DMP (2023)
92 Cal.App.5th 863, 866 [same].)The
Application of the Privette DoctrineThe
Court begins by noting that the Privette Doctrine was developed in the
context of private entities, not public entity landowners or hirers. Here, both
sides assume that the doctrine applies equally to City and other public
entities; accordingly, the Court assumes, without deciding, that the Privette
Doctrine can provide a defense to a cause of action under Government Code
section 835 against a public entity landowner.In this
case, if City had hired UOS to perform the work on the roof, the Court would
likely conclude that Plaintiff’s cause of action against City is barred by the Privette
Doctrine. Plaintiff was injured on the job while working as an employee of a
contractor performing services on the premises owned by City. (DSUMF, Nos. 1-8;
PSAMF, Nos. 1-13.) Under the Privette Doctrine, as set for the above, the
hirer presumptively delegates issues of workplace safety to the contractor. Moreover,
neither the Hooker nor the Kinsman exception applies here. City
did not exercise retained control in connection with Plaintiff’s work, and
there was no concealed hazard present that was unknown to the contractor or
could not have been discovered by a reasonable inspection of the worksite. (DSUMF,
Nos. 9-11, 14, 17; PSAMF, No. 3-4, 14-17.) Significantly, however, City did not hire UOS.
Rather, City leased a portion of the premises to T-Mobile, and it was T-Mobile who
hired UOS. (DSUMF, Nos. 4-5.) That means that, at least as a matter of
contract, City did not delegate to UOS its duties with regard to an allegedly
dangerous condition on the roof – because City had no contractual relationship
at all with UOS. UOS was simply a contractor hired by City’s tenant. City does
not argue that it delegated issues of rooftop safety to T-Mobile (whether in
the lease or otherwise). And in hiring UOS to perform repair work, T-Mobile did
not alter or delegate, did not have the power or authority to alter or delegate,
the duties that City owed to Plaintiff (or anyone else) with regard to rooftop
safety.Does that make a difference? According to a
recent decision of the First District Court of Appeal, Ramirez v. PK I Plaza
580 SC LP (2022) 85 Cal.App.5th 252, it does. In Ramirez, a
commercial landlord (Kimco) leased certain premises to a tenant (Freeway).
Freeway hired an independent contractor (Ramirez) to perform certain work.
Ramirez was injured while performing this work and sued, among others, Kimco.The Court of Appeal, in a divided decision, reversed
the trial court’s grant of summary judgment to Kimco under the Privette
Doctrine. As the court explained, “Kimco [the landlord] did not hire either
Ramirez or Freeway” to perform the work. (85 Cal.App.5th at p. 265.) “Thus,
Kimco did not delegate a responsibility for ensuring the worksite’s safety,
either directly or through the chain of delegation.” (Ibid.) The
delegation of workplace safety that is at the core of Privette and its progeny,
the Court of Appeal reasoned, is absent where the landlord did not contract with
or hire the contractor (either directly or indirectly) to perform the work. (Id.,
at pp. 266-270.)Justice Banke dissented. Justice Banke argued,
among other things, that in substance Kimco had hired Freeway to perform the
work, and so the responsibility to ensure workplace safety had been delegated
to Freeway (and then subsequently Freeway delegated the responsibility to
Ramirez). (Id., at pp. 278-280.) She rejected the majority’s conclusion
that the applicability of Privette, and ultimately the ability of a worker
to recover for on-the-job injuries, should turn on the happenstance of whether
the hirer of the contractor for work on leased premises was the landlord or the
tenant. (Ibid.)If this Court were writing on a clean slate,
the Court might well agree with the views expressed by Justice Banke. But the
slate is not clean. The decisions of every District and every Division of the
Court of Appeal are binding on all Superior Courts in California. (Auto Equity
Sales v. Superior Court (1962) 57 Cal.2d 450, 455; Cuccia v. Superior
Court (2007) 153 Cal.App.4th 347, 353.) Appellate courts in California
review the rulings of the Superior Court; the Superior Court does not review
the rulings of the appellate courts. Different Districts or even Division of
the Court of Appeal may disagree with each other, and choose not to follow other
Court of Appeal rulings. The Superior Court has no such power.Absent a conflict in appellate court rulings
(and no party identifies any conflict), this Court must and will follow Ramirez.
Based on Ramirez, the Court concludes that City has not met its initial
burden as a defendant moving for summary judgment of showing, based on the Privette
Doctrine, that one or more
elements of Plaintiff’s cause of action cannot be established or that there is
a complete defense to the cause of action.Dangerous ConditionIn the alternative, City argues briefly that
even if Privette does not apply, it is still entitled to summary
judgment because the skylight on the roof was not a “dangerous condition”
within the meaning of Government Code section 835. (Opening Mem., at pp.
19-20.)  The term “dangerous
condition” means a “condition of property that creates a substantial (as
distinguished from a minor,¿trivial¿or insignificant) risk of injury when such
property or adjacent property is used with due care in a manner in which it is
reasonably foreseeable that it¿will be used.”¿(Gov. Code, § 830, subd. (a); see
also Thimon, supra, 44 Cal.App.5th at p. 754.)¿”Public property is in a
dangerous condition within the meaning of section 835 if it is physically
damages, deteriorated, or defective in such a way as to foreseeably endanger
those using the property itself.” (Cordova
v. City of Los Angeles (2015) 61 Cal.4th 1099, 1105.) “The existence
of a dangerous condition ordinarily is a question of fact, but the issue may be
resolved as a matter of law if reasonable minds can come to only one conclusion.”
(Peterson v. San Francisco Comm. College Dist.¿(1984) 36 Cal.3d 799,
810; accord Stack v. City of Lemoore (2023) 91 Cal.App.5th 102, 110; Nunez
v. City of Redondo Beach (2022) 81 Cal.App.5th 749, 757.)  Plaintiff has the burden of proving the existence of a dangerous
condition and each element of a cause of action under Government Code 835. A
court may not presume that there was a dangerous condition merely because the
plaintiff was injured. (Sambrano v. City of San Diego (2001) 94
Cal.App.4th 225, 241 [describing such an argument as “reason[ing] backwards”].)“A condition is not dangerous within the meaning of
the statute unless it creates a hazard to those who foreseeably will use the
property ... with due care. Thus, even though it is foreseeable that
persons may use public property without due care, a public entity may not be
held liable for failing to take precautions to protect such persons.”¿(Matthews
v. City of Cerritos¿(1992) 2 Cal.App.4th 1380, 1384; accord Biscotti
v. Yuba City Unified School Dist. (2007) 158 Cal.App.4th
554, 561.) “The condition of the property involved should create
a ‘substantial risk’ of injury, for an undue burden would be placed upon public
entities if they were responsible for the repair of all conditions creating any
possibility of injury however remote that possibility might be.”¿(Fredette¿v.
City of Long Beach¿(1986) 187 Cal.App.3d 122, 130, fn.5; accord Nunez,
supra, 81 Cal.App.5th at p. 758.) Government Code section 830.2 provides that a condition is not a
“dangerous condition” under the Government Claims Act:“if the
trial or appellate court, viewing the evidence most favorably to the plaintiff,
determines as a matter of law that the risk created by the condition was of
such a minor, trivial or insignificant nature in view of the surrounding
circumstances that no reasonable person would conclude that the condition
created a substantial risk of injury when such property or adjacent property
was used with due care in a manner in which it was reasonably foreseeable that
it would be used.” (Gov. Code, § 830.2; accord Cordova, supra, 61 Cal.4th at p. 1105.).) This
statutory principle is sometimes referred to as “the trivial defect doctrine.”It is impossible to
maintain public property in perfect condition. (Stack, supra, 91
Cal.App.5th at pp. 109-110; Nunez, supra, 81 Cal.App.5th at p. 758; Kasparian
v. AvalonBay Communities, Inc. (2007) 156 Cal.App.4th 11, 26.) The
Government Claims Act is not intended to make public entities “insurers”
against injuries arising from trivial defects. (Stack, supra, 91
Cal.App.5th at p. 109; Thimon, supra, 44 Cal.App.5th at p. 757.) Rather,
the trivial defect doctrine shields public entities from liability for
“minor, trivial, or insignificant” defects. (Huckey v. City of Temecula (2019)
37 Cal.App.5th 1092, 1104; Kasparian, supra, 156 Cal.App.4th at p. 27.) This is not to say that it
is impossible for a member of the public to sustain injuries as a result of a
defect that is trivial. (See Nunez, supra, 81 Cal.App.5th at pp.
759-760.) But the duty of care of a public entity (or a private landowner) does
not extend to protecting members of the public from minor or trivial defects. (Id.
at pp. 757, 759.)“The trivial defect
doctrine is not an affirmative defense. It is an aspect of duty that a
plaintiff must plead and prove.” (Huckey, supra, 37 Cal.App.5th at p.
1104; accord Nunez, supra, 81 Cal.App.5th at p. 757.)   “In appropriate cases, the
trial court may determine ... whether a given … defect was trivial as a
matter of law.” (Huckey, supra, 37 Cal.App.5th at p. 1104.) “‘Where
reasonable minds can reach only one conclusion—that there was no
substantial risk of injury—the issue is a question of law, properly resolved by
way of summary judgment.’” (Id. at pp. 1104-1105 (quoting Caloroso v.
Hathaway (2004) 122 Cal.App.4th 922, 929).) “If, however,
the court determines that sufficient evidence has been presented so that
reasonable minds may differ as to whether the defect presents a substantial
risk of injury, the court may not conclude that the defect is trivial as a
matter of law.” (Huckey, supra, 37 Cal.App.5th at p. 1105.)  The Court has
considered all of the facts in the record. On this record, the Court finds that
reasonable minds can differ as
to whether the skylight presented a substantial risk of injury when the roof was used with due care in
a manner in which it was reasonably foreseeable that it would be used. There
are (at least) triable issues as to whether it was reasonably foreseeable that
workers would, from time to time, be performing repair work on the roof;
whether it was reasonably foreseeable that a worker exercising due care might
nonetheless lose their balance, stumble, and place their weight on a skylight;
and whether it was reasonably foreseeable, given the arrangement of the
skylights and their condition, that a worker placing their weight on a skylight
might fall through the skylight and sustain injuries as a result. City did not take
any action to remedy or warn of the dangerous condition. (See PSAMF,
Nos. 29-32.)Accordingly, the Court cannot conclude that the rooftop was not
dangerous as a matter of law.Therefore, City’s motion for summary judgment
is denied. ConclusionThe Court DENIES City’s motion for summary
judgment.

































































































































































Moving Party is to give notice.