 Case Number:  24STCV02046    Hearing Date:   January 15, 2025    Dept:  73 01/15/2025
Dept. 73
Hon. Rolf M. Treu,
Judge presiding
 
Claire Donahue v. 427 S Mariposa
Partners, LP, et al. (24STCV02046)
 
Counsel for
Plaintiff/opposing party: Claire Donahue is represented by Armand J. Jaafari 
Counsel for Defendant/moving
party: 427 S Mariposa Partners, LP, is represented by David Stuart Canter
 
Motion to compel plaintiff’s further
responses to form interrogatories, set one and request for monetary sanctions (filed 08/06/2024)
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 
Defendant 427 S Mariposa Partners, LP’s Motion to Compel Plaintiff’s
Further Responses to Form Interrogatories, Set One, is GRANTED. Plaintiff is
hereby ordered to provide further verified responses, without objections, to
Defendant’s Form Interrogatories, Set One, within 30 days of the date of this
order. 
 
The Court further GRANTS Defendant 427 S Mariposa Partners, LP’s request
for monetary sanctions against Plaintiff and Plaintiff’s counsel in the reduced
amount of $1,360.00. Said monetary sanctions are to be paid to Defendant’s
counsel within 30 days of the date of this order. 
 
Moving party to give notice.
 
I. BACKGROUND
 
On January
26, 2024, Plaintiff Claire Donahue (“Plaintiff”) brought this action against Defendants
427 S Mariposa Partners, LP; LA Urban Living LLC; Jeclim LLC; Jeremy Miller;
Philip G. Miller and Annie Boxell (collectively, “Defendants”). 
 
The Complaint
alleges the following: Plaintiff was an occupant of real property located at
427 S Mariposa, Unit 511, Los Angeles, CA (the “Property”) as a lessee/tenant
under a written lease with Defendants. Plaintiff alleges that on April 6, 2020,
Plaintiff reported an active leak and water damage in the bedroom ceiling to
management, who acknowledged the issue but failed to conduct repairs despite
multiple follow-ups. On January 25, 2022, Plaintiff discovered additional mold
growth in the bedroom after heavy rains. Plaintiff informed the building
manager and requested repairs. During Plaintiff’s tenancy, Defendants failed to
maintain the Property in a safe and habitable condition. Plaintiff was
eventually forced to vacate the Property due to health issues while living in
the Property. Defendants constructively evicted Plaintiff from the
Property—having refused to make the required repairs to the Property and ensure
the Property be made safe and habitable, and after Plaintiff told Defendants
that Plaintiff suspected that the fungal growth at the Property was making
Plaintiff sick.
 
The Complaint
alleges the following causes of action: 
1. Breach of
the implied warranty of habitability; 
2. Nuisance; 
3. Breach of
contract; 
4.
Negligence; 
5. Negligent
misrepresentation; 
6.
Constructive eviction; 
7. Premises
liability; 
8. Fraud; and

9.
Intentional infliction of emotional distress. 
 
On August 6,
2024, Defendant 427 S Mariposa Partners, LP (“Defendant” or “Mariposa”) filed a
motion to compel Plaintiff’s further responses to form interrogatories, set
one, and a request for monetary sanctions, arguing:
·               
Defendant properly electronically served
Plaintiff with its Form Interrogatories, Set One, on March 22, 2024.
·               
On April 25, 2024, Defendant sent an
email to Plaintiff’s counsel to confer about Plaintiff’s failure to respond.
·               
On April 25, 2024, Plaintiff’s counsel
claimed that Defendant failed to properly serve their written discovery
requests.
·               
On April 30, 2024, based on Plaintiff’s
contention that service of the requests was improper, Defendant granted
Plaintiff an extension of time to provide Defendant with her responses based on
a service date of April 30, 2024, making Plaintiff’s responses due on or before
June 4, 2024.
·               
On June 7, 2024, after still not
receiving Plaintiff’s responses, Defendant granted Plaintiff an extension of
time to provide Defendant with her responses until June 14, 2024.
·               
On June 18, 2024, Plaintiff
electronically served Plaintiff’s Responses to Defendant’s Form
Interrogatories. However, Plaintiff failed to tailor her responses to
Defendant’s Form Interrogatories. Instead, Plaintiff provided one responsive
document with evasive, non-responsive, and/or incomplete responses, and in some
cases, Plaintiff failed to respond to an interrogatory.
·               
On July 29, 2024, Defendant sent
Plaintiff’s counsel a formal meet and confer letter identifying the
deficiencies in Plaintiff’s responses. Defendant requested code-compliant
responses by Friday, August 2, 2024.
·               
On Monday, August 5, 2024, having not
received any communications from Plaintiff’s counsel, Defendant wrote to
Plaintiff’s counsel to arrange an informal discovery conference and an
extension of time to file any required motions to compel further responses.
·               
On Tuesday, August 6, 2024, having not
received any communications from Plaintiff’s counsel, Defendant filed the
instant motion to compel further responses.
No opposition has been filed. On January
8, 2025, Defendant filed a notice of non-opposition.
 
II. ANALYSIS
 
A.      Legal
Standard
 
“Any party
may obtain discovery…by propounding to any other party to the action written
interrogatories to be answered under oath.” (CCP § 2030.010(a).) “An
interrogatory may relate to whether another party is making a certain
contention, or to the facts, witnesses, and writings on which a contention is
based. An interrogatory is not objectionable because an answer to it involves
an opinion or contention that relates to fact or the application of law to
fact, or would be based on information obtained or legal theories developed in
anticipation of litigation or in preparation for trial.” (CCP § 2030.010(b).)
 
The
propounding party may move for an order compelling a further response to the
interrogatories if the propounding party deems that any of the following apply:
(1) an answer is particularly evasive or incomplete; (2) an exercise of the
option to produce documents is unwarranted or the required specification of
those documents is inadequate; and (3) an objection to an interrogatory is
without merit or too general. (CCP § 2030.300(a)(1)-(3).)  The motion shall be accompanied by a meet and
confer declaration. (CCP § 2030.300(b)(1).)
 
The Code of
Civil Procedure requires the following for answers to interrogatories: “(a)
Each answer in a response to interrogatories shall be as complete and
straightforward as the information reasonably available to the responding party
permits. (b) If an interrogatory cannot be answered completely, it shall be
answered to the extent possible. (c) If the responding party does not have
personal knowledge sufficient to respond fully to an interrogatory, that party
shall so state, but shall make a reasonable and good faith effort to obtain the
information by inquiry to other natural persons or organizations, except where
the information is equally available to the propounding party.” (CCP §
2030.220.)
 
When
responding to interrogatories, the Discovery Act requires a party to make a
reasonable and good faith effort to obtain the information before responding to
the interrogatories. (Regency Health Services, Inc. v. Superior Court
(1998) 64 Cal.App.4th 1496, 1504.) A party cannot plead ignorance to
information which can be obtained from sources under his control. (Deyo v.
Kilbourne (1978) 84 Cal.App.3d 771, 782.)
 
B.      Discussion
 
In this case,
Defendant has demonstrated that Plaintiff’s responses to the interrogatories
were deficient and were evasive and incomplete. (CCP § 2030.300(a)(1).)
 
In support of
its motion, Defendant presented the Declaration of Christine R. Ghattas
(“Ghattas Decl.”), Defendant’s counsel of record, which states the following
facts: 
 
On March 22,
2024, Defendant served Plaintiff electronically with Form Interrogatories.
(Ghattas Decl., ¶ 2; Ex. A.) Plaintiff’s responses were due on April 24, 2024,
30 days following service, plus an additional two court days for electronic
service. (CCP §§ 2030.260(a); 1013 (a).) However, Plaintiff failed to provide
responses by this date. (Ghattas Decl., ¶ 3.) After communications between
counsel for Defendant and Plaintiff where Defendant’s counsel granted Plaintiff
multiple extensions to her deadline to provide responses, on June 7, 2024,
Defendant ultimately granted Plaintiff an extension to provide her responses
without objections by June 14, 2024. (Id., ¶¶ 4-9; Ex. B.)
 
On June 18,
2024, Plaintiff electronically served her responses to Defendant’s Form
Interrogatories. (Ghattas Decl., ¶ 10; Ex. C.) However, such responses were
deficient for multiple reasons, including the following:
              
1.      Plaintiff
failed to answer or even reference Form Interrogatories Nos. 14.2, 17.1, 50.1,
50.2, 50.3, 50.4, 50.5, and 50.6.
2.      Plaintiff’s
response to Form Interrogatory No. 6.5 is incomplete because Plaintiff was
asked to provide information about the medications she was taking, but all she
did was say she was taking medications that could be found in the medical
records that she produced, but she did not produce any medical records.
3.      Plaintiff’s
responses to Form Interrogatories Nos. 6.7, 7.1, and 12.6 are incomplete and
evasive because Plaintiff failed to completely answer the interrogatories.
4.      Finally,
Plaintiff’s response to Form Interrogatory No. 8.3 is incomplete and
non-responsive because it conflicts with another of Plaintiff’s responses.
 
On July 29,
2024, Defendant’s counsel sent Plaintiff’s counsel a formal meet and confer
letter identifying Defendant’s claimed deficiencies in Plaintiff’s responses
and requesting that Plaintiff provide code-compliant responses to Defendant’s Form
Interrogatories by Friday, August 2, 2024. (Ghattas Decl., ¶ 11, Ex. D.) On
August 5, 2024, having not received any communications from Plaintiff’s
counsel, Defendant’s counsel sent an additional meet and confer correspondence
requesting an informal discovery conference and an extension of time to file
any motions to compel further responses. (Id., ¶ 12, Ex. E.) Again,
Plaintiff’s counsel did not provide any response. (Id., ¶ 12.)
 
This evidence
is sufficient to justify Plaintiff’s further response, or in some cases initial
response, to Defendant’s Form Interrogatories. Further, Plaintiff’s lack of
opposition waives any potential objections Plaintiff may have had to any of
Defendant’s Form Interrogatories. 
 
Accordingly,
the Court GRANTS Defendant’s motion to compel Plaintiff’s further responses to form
interrogatories, set one.
 
C.      Defendant’s
Request for Monetary Sanctions
 
In connection
with its motion, Defendant also requests the imposition of monetary sanctions
on Plaintiff and Plaintiff’s counsel for their misuse of the discovery process.
Defendant’s request totals $2,140.00, representing 4.5 hours preparing this
motion and related documents, 1.0 hours anticipated to prepare a reply, and 2.5
hours anticipated to prepare for and attend the hearing on this motion charged
at a $260 per hour fee, as well as a $60.00 filing fee for this motion.
(Ghattas Decl., ¶¶ 14-15.)
 
“The court
shall impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with Section
2023.010) against any party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or
opposes a motion to compel a response to interrogatories, unless it finds that
the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that
other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.” (CCP §
2030.290(c).)
 
“To the
extent authorized by the chapter governing any particular discovery method or
any other provision of this title, the court, after notice to any affected
party, person or attorney, and after opportunity for hearing may impose …
sanctions against anyone engaging in conduct that is a misuse of the discovery
process…” (CCP § 2023.030.) “Misuses of the discovery process include, but are
not limited to . . . (e) Making, without substantial justification, an
unmeritorious objection to discovery . . . (f) Making an evasive response to
discovery . . . (h) Making or opposing, unsuccessfully and without substantial
justification, a motion to compel or to limit discovery….” (CCP § 2023.010.)
 
“The court
may impose a monetary sanction ordering that the one engaging in the misuse of
the discovery process, or any attorney advising that conduct, or both pay the
reasonable expenses, including attorney’s fees, incurred by anyone as a result
of that conduct.” (CCP § 2023.030(a).)
 
Here, the
facts described above, as well as Plaintiff’s failure to oppose Defendant’s motion,
justify the imposition of monetary sanctions against Plaintiff and Plaintiff’s
counsel for misuse of the discovery process. However, since the motion is
unopposed, the Court will not award Defendant’s anticipated fees for preparing
a Reply. Further, the Court finds that 2.5 anticipated hours to prepare for and
attend the hearing on an unopposed motion is unreasonable, and that 4.5 hours
to prepare a relatively simple discovery motion is not reasonable given
counsel’s level of expertise. The Court awards Defendant’s attorney’s fees for
5.0 hours of attorney work and for the filing fee. Thus, monetary sanctions are
awarded in the reduced amount of $1,360.00. 
 
Accordingly,
the Court GRANTS Defendant’s request for monetary sanctions against Plaintiff
and Plaintiff’s counsel in the reduced amount of $1,360.00.
 

III. DISPOSITION
 
Defendant 427 S Mariposa
Partners, LP’s Motion to Compel Plaintiff’s Further Responses to Form
Interrogatories, Set One, is GRANTED. Plaintiff is hereby ordered to provide
further verified responses, without objections, to Defendant’s Form
Interrogatories, Set One, within 30 days of the date of this order. 
 
The Court further GRANTS
Defendant 427 S Mariposa Partners, LP’s request for monetary sanctions against
Plaintiff and Plaintiff’s counsel in the reduced amount of $1,360.00. Said
monetary sanctions are to be paid to Defendant’s counsel within 30 days of the
date of this order. 
 
Moving party to give notice.