 Case Number:  23STCV13188    Hearing Date:   March 20, 2024    Dept:  40 Superior
Court of California
County
of Los Angeles
Department 40
 



JESUS CASTRO, an individual,
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
AMERICAN HONDA MOTOR CO., INC.; and DOES 1 through 10, inclusive
                        Defendants.


 Case No.:          23STCV13188
 Hearing Date:   3/20/24
 Trial Date:        12/10/24
 [TENTATIVE] RULING RE:
Plaintiff Jesus
  Castrol’s Motion to Compel Further Responses to Plaintiff’s Request for
  Production of Documents, Set One.



 
I. Background
A. Pleadings
Plaintiff Jesus Castro sues
Defendants American Honda Motor Co., Inc. (AHM) and Does 1 through 10 pursuant
to a June 9, 2023, Complaint alleging claims of (1) Violation of Subdivision
(d) of Civil Code Section 1793.2, (2) Violation of Subdivision (b) of Civil
Code Section 1793.2, (3) Violation of Subdivision (a)(3) of Civil Code Section
1793.2, (4) Breach of Express Written Warranty, Civil Code Section 1791.2
Subdivision (a); Section 1794; and (5) Breach of Implied Warranty of
Merchantability, Civil Code Section 1791.1; Section 1794.
The claims arise from the following
allegations. On September 5, 2021, Plaintiff purchased a 2018 Honda Pilot
(Vehicle) that was manufactured and/or distributed by Defendant AHM. Plaintiff
received an express written warranty in which Defendant AHM undertook to
preserve or maintain the utility or performance of the Vehicle or to provide
compensation if there was a failure in utility or performance for a specified
period of time. After Plaintiff took possession of the Vehicle and during the
warranty period, the Vehicle contained or developed defects that substantially
impaired the use, safety, and/or value of the Vehicle, including defective
body, powertrain, safety, electrical, braking, and noise systems. Plaintiff
provided Defendant AHM sufficient opportunity to service or repair the Vehicle,
but AHM was unable or failed to service or repair the Vehicle within a
reasonable number of attempts and did not promptly replace or repurchase the
Vehicle.
B. Motion Before the Court
On August 30, 2023, Plaintiff
Castro served Request for Production of Documents (RPDs), Set One, on Defendant
AHM.
On October 3, 2023, Defendant AHM electronically
served objection-only responses to RPDs, Set One.
Between August 30, 2023, and
November 14, 2023, Plaintiff sent various meet and confer letters to AHM’s
counsel, in which Plaintiff’s counsel sought to confer about electronically
stored information (ESI) involved in RPDs, Set One, AHM’s objections and
arguments related to arbitration, and the narrowing of databases involved in
the ESI production at issue. 
AHM’s counsel did not provide a
response to those communications, nor did AHM produce any documents in response
to RPDs, Set One—a position not disputed by the evidentiary facts stated in the
declaration of counsel attached to the opposing papers before the Court.
As a result, on November 20, 2023,
Plaintiff Castro filed a motion to compel further responses to RPDs, Set One,
Nos. 16-21.
On March 7, 2024, AHM filed an
opposition to Plaintiff’s motion.
On March 13, 2024, Plaintiff Castro
filed a reply to AHM’s opposition.
Plaintiff Castro’s motion is now
before the Court.
 
II. Motion to Compel Further Production: GRANTED.
A. Legal Standard
A motion to compel a further
response is used when a party gives unsatisfactory answers or makes untenable
objections to interrogatories, demands to produce, or requests for admission.
(See Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.310, subd. (a); Sinaiko Healthcare Consulting,
Inc. v. Pacific Healthcare Consultants (2007) 148 Cal.App.4th 390, 403.)
To request further production, a
movant must establish: (1) good cause for the production (Code Civ. Proc., §
2031.310, subd. (b)(1); Sinaiko, supra, at p. 403); and (2) that
a further response is needed because (a) the responding party’s statement of
compliance with the demand to produce is incomplete Code Civ. Proc., §
2031.310, subd. (a)(1)), (b) the responding party’s representation that it is unable
to comply is inadequate, complete, or evasive (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.310,
subd. (a)(2)), (c) the responding party’s objection in the response is without
merit or is too general (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.310, subd. (a)(3); Catalina
Island Yacht Club v. Superior Court (2015) 242 Cal.App.4th 1116, 1127), or
(d) if the responding party objected to the production of ESI on the ground
that it is not reasonably accessible the movant can show that the (i) ESI is
reasonably accessible or (ii) there is good cause for production of the ESI
regardless of its accessibility (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.310, subd. (e)).
B. Analysis
1. Production
Requests at Issue
RPDs, Set One, defines “[t]he term ‘POWERTRAIN
DEFECT’ … to mean such defects [that] result in symptoms including, but not
limited to: display of ‘transmission system problem’ warning; malfunction of
torque converter; torque converter clutch circuit performance failure;
transmission fluid leak; defective transmission case; premature failure of
transmission; clicking noise; knocking noise; corroded exhaust components;
failure of catalytic converter; faulty fuel injectors; DTC P0430; DTC P219A;
TSB #16-087; TSB 21-010; and any other concern identified in the repair history
for the subject 2018 Honda Pilot; Vehicle Identification Number
5FNYF6H7XJB005957.”
RPDs, Set One, No. 16 requests: “All
DOCUMENTS, including but not limited to electronically stored information and
electronic mails, concerning or relating to any internal analysis or
investigation by YOU or on YOUR behalf regarding the POWERTRAIN DEFECT in
vehicles of the same year, make, and model as the SUBJECT VEHICLE. [This
request shall be interpreted to include, but not be limited to, any such
investigation to determine the root cause of such POWERTRAIN DEFECT, any such
investigation to design a permanent repair procedure for such POWERTRAIN
DEFECT, any such investigation into the failure rates of parts associated with
such POWERTRAIN DEFECT, any cost analysis for implementing a proposed repair
procedures, any savings analysis not implementing a proposed repair procedures,
etc.]”
RPDs, Set One, No. 17 requests: “All
DOCUMENTS, including but not limited to electronically stored information and
electronic mails, concerning or relating to any communications YOU have had
regarding POWERTRAIN DEFECT in vehicles of the same year, make, and model as
the SUBJECT VEHICLE.”
RPDs, Set One, No. 18 requests: “All
DOCUMENTS, including but not limited to electronically stored information and
electronic mails, concerning or relating to any decision to issue any notices,
letters, campaigns, warranty extensions, technical service bulletins and
recalls concerning the POWERTRAIN DEFECT in vehicles of the same year, make,
and model as the SUBJECT VEHICLE.”
RPDs, Set One, No. 19 requests: “All
DOCUMENTS, including but not limited to electronically stored information and
electronic mails, concerning customer complaints, claims, reported failures,
and warranty claims related to POWERTRAIN DEFECT, in vehicles of the same year,
make, and model as the SUBJECT VEHICLE, including but not limited to any
databases in YOUR possession with information from dealers, service
departments, parts departments, or warranty departments, and all documents
concerning YOUR response to each complaint, claim or reported failure.”
RPDs, Set One, No. 20 requests: “All
DOCUMENTS, including but not limited to electronically stored information and
electronic mails, concerning failure rates of vehicles of the same year, make,
and model as the SUBJECT VEHICLE as a result of POWERTRAIN DEFECT.”
RPDs, Set One, No. 21 requests: “All
DOCUMENTS, including but not limited to electronically stored information and
electronic mails, concerning or relating to any fixes for POWERTRAIN DEFECT in
vehicles of the same year, make, and model as the SUBJECT VEHICLE.”
(Mot., Separate Statement, pp. 2, 3,
12, 21, 29, 38, 47.)
2. AHM’s
Objections
AHM’s objections generally fall
into the following categories:
(1) Vagueness, ambiguity,
overbreadth, undue burden, harassment, and asking for information that is not
relevant or reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence;
(2) Information as to other vehicle
of the same year, make, and model is irrelevant where this action involves
failure to conform Plaintiff’s Vehicle, no other vehicles, to warranty (RPDs,
Set One, Nos. 16-20 only);
(3) “Powertrain defect” is
ambiguous and overly broad as defined in the production requests;
(4) The overbreadth of the requests
fails to meet the reasonable particularity required from Code of Civil
Procedure           section 2031.030,
subdivision (c)(1);
(5) The requests involve
confidential, commercially sensitive, and proprietary information or trade
secrets;
(6) The requests seek to have AHM
respond on behalf of another entity;
(7) AHM filed a motion to compel
arbitration and for a stay in this action, as set for hearing on January 11,
2024;
(8) The attorney-client privilege,
the attorney work-product doctrine, and/or the premature discovery of
information and materials to be provided by an expert witness pursuant to Code
of Civil Procedure section 2034.210 et seq. (RPDs, Set One, No. 17 only);
(9) The right to privacy (RPDs, Set
One, Nos. 19-20 only); and or
(10) Argumentative and assumes a
defect (RPDs, Set One, No. 21 only).
(See Mot., Separate Statement, pp.
3-4 ,12-13, 21-22, 30, 38-39, 47.)
3. Merits of
Objections and Production
a. RPDs, Set
One, Nos. 16, 18, 21
Plaintiff’s motion is GRANTED as to
RPDs, Set One, because Defendant AHM has agreed to production relating to these
requests, and the reply does not indicate that production has been made to
date. (Opp’n, pp. 2-3; Reply.)
b. RPDs, Set
One, Nos. 17, 19, 20
Plaintiff’s motion is also GRANTED as
to RPDs, Set One, Nos. 17, 19, 20.
These requests are summarized above
in Section II.B.1. They are relevant to whether AHM had knowledge of
nonconformable defects in the powertrain system in the Vehicle, based on
knowledge of similar nonconformable defects in the powertrain systems of
vehicles of the same year, make, and model.
The Song-Beverly Act provides for civil penalties through
two separate means: (1) where the manufacturer’s non-compliance with the Act is
willful (i.e.,
intentional violation of the Act); and (2) penalties where the manufacturer
violates its express warranty obligations. (Civ. Code, § 1794, subd. (c),
(e)(1)-(5).) 
Here, the defects are specifically
defined as “defects [that] result in symptoms including, but not limited to:
display of ‘transmission system problem’ warning; malfunction of torque
converter; torque converter clutch circuit performance failure; transmission fluid
leak; defective transmission case; premature failure of transmission; clicking
noise; knocking noise; corroded exhaust components; failure of catalytic
converter; faulty fuel injectors; DTC P0430; DTC P219A; TSB #16-087; TSB
21-010; and any other concern identified in the repair history for the subject
2018 Honda Pilot; Vehicle Identification Number 5FNYF6H7XJB005957.” (Mot.,
Separate Statement, p. 2.)
The opposition argues that the powertrain
definition “includes … symptoms referencing a myriad of components for which
the Subject Vehicle was never presented to an authorized repair facility.”
(Opp’n, p. 5.)
However, the declaration of counsel
attached to the moving papers summarizes Plaintiff’s authorized repair facility
visits between September 20, 2021, and July 21, 2023, with the visits relating
to the failure of the torque converted clutch circuit, a leaking transmission
case requiring a transmission replacement, corroded exhaust components that
required a catalytic converter assembly replacement, and malfunction of the
fuel injectors. (Mot., Panhwar Decl., ¶¶ 3-11, Ex. 1 [repair facility visits
documents]; see also id. at Exs. 2-3 [copies of service bulletins at
issue].)
As a result, it follows that a
finding of willful noncompliance with the SBA could arise from a determination
that AHM had knowledge of nonconformable defects in the powertrain system
components summarized above or based on information relating to the above
diagnostic codes and service bulletins, which provided AHM a basis for knowing
that it could not conform the Vehicle as a result of the effect of these
defects on the powertrain system or of a more global powertrain failure that
affected multiple components therein.
This makes the discovery relevant,
even if it involves third party complaints. (Civ. Code, § 1794, subd. (c).)
This also defeats the opposition arguments at pages three to seven.
The Court overrules the vagueness
and ambiguity objections based on the clarity of the definition of the
powertrain system and the specific components alleged to have been affected
here.
The (1) confidential, commercially
sensitive, and proprietary information, (2) trade secrets, (3) response on
behalf of another entity, (4) attorney-client privilege, attorney work-product
doctrine, and/or the premature discovery of information and materials to be
provided by an expert witness pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section
2034.210 et seq., (5) right to privacy, and (6) argumentative and assumes a
defect objections are not availing. They are not more than cursorily elaborated
in AHM’s initial objections (See Mot., Separate Statement, pp. 3-4 ,12-13,
21-22, 30, 38-39, 47), and not at all elaborated in the separate statement,
which is a repetition of the opposition points and authorities. (Compare Opp’n,
pp. 4-8 [only arguing privacy in header at page 5, § 2], with Opp’n, Sep. St.,
18-23, 39-44, 52-57 [essentially identical argument].) Neither did any of the
parties attach meet and confer letters from AHM clarifying its position
because, as noted in the Background at Section I above, AHM did not respond to
meet and confer efforts by Plaintiff’s counsel, nor does it dispute that
position. (Mot., Panhwar Decl., ¶¶ 3-11, Ex. 1; Opp’n, Dao Decl., ¶¶ 1-7
[describing no response to meet and confer], Exs. A-C [only attaching discovery
request, objection, and a meet and confer letter sent to AHM’s counsel by
Plaintiff’s counsel].)
The compel arbitration objection
fails because the record fails to reflect that any motion to compel arbitration
has ever been filed or even reserved for hearing with this Court.
However, the final objection, overbreadth,
has some merit as relates to email production and other documents, and the
Court fails to find waiver of objections to ESI production.
The Court therefore ORDERS the response
to RPDs, Set One, Nos. 17, 19, and 20 to be narrowed to documents responsive to
a search for documents that contain the source codes or technical bulletins
that are at issue in the complaint, and not including any work product or attorney/client
privileged communications; and as limited, GRANTS the motion as to these
requests. 
III. Conclusion
Plaintiff Jesus Castrol’s Motion to
Compel Further Responses to Plaintiff’s Request for Production of Documents,
Set One, is GRANTED. Defendant shall provide such further responses within 30
days.