  Case Number:  20STCV27665    Hearing Date:   March 20, 2024    Dept:  40 Superior
Court of California
County
of Los Angeles
Department 40
 



SANDRA NORLUND, an individual, and SANDRA NORLUND, Trustee of
  the Norlund Family Trust Dated September 15, 2000,
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
RICHARD L. NORLUND; SHARON K. BACON-NORLUND; RICHARD L. NORLUND
  as Successor Trustee of “Trust A” of the “Norlund Family Trust dated March
  16, 1987”; RICHARD L. NORLUND as Successor Trustee of “Trust B” of the
  “Norlund Family Trust dated March 16, 1987”; RICHARD L. NORLUND as Trustee of
  “Richard L. Norlund Separate Property Trust dated December 11, 1997”; RICHARD
  L. NORLUND and SHARON K. BACON-NORLUND, as Trustees of the “Norlund Family
  Trust dated May 13, 2019” and DOES 1 through 100, inclusive,
                        Defendants.
NANCY HYMAS, as Trustee for Trust A FBO NANCY HYMAS and Trust B
  FBO NANCY HYMAS,
                        Nominal
  Defendants. 
______________________________________
NANCY HYMAS, NANCY HYMAS, Trustee of Trust A FBO Nancy Hymas and
  Trust B FBO Nancy Hymas, and NANCY HYMAS, Beneficiary of Trust A FBO Nancy Hymas
  and Trust B FBO Nancy Hymas,
                        Plaintiff-Intervenors,
            v.
RICHARD L. NORLUND; SHARON K. BACON-NORLUND; RICHARD L. NORLUND
  as Successor Trustee of “Trust A” of the “Norlund Family Trust dated March 16,
  1987”; RICHARD L. NORLUND as Successor Trustee of “Trust B” of the “Norlund
  Family Trust dated March 16, 1987”; RICHARD L. NORLUND as Trustee of “Richard
  L. Norlund Separate Property Trust dated December 11, 1997”; RICHARD L.
  NORLUND and SHARON K. BACON NORLUND, as Trustees of the “Norlund Family Trust
  dated May 13, 2019” and DOES 1 through 100, inclusive,
                        Defendants.


 Case No.:          20STCV27665
 Hearing Date:   3/20/24
 Trial Date:        8/20/24
 [TENTATIVE] RULING RE:
Plaintiffs Sandra
  Norlund’s Motion for Leave to File Second Amended Complaint.



 
Court Order
 
I. Background
A. Pleadings
On July 22, 2020, Plaintiffs Sandra
Norlund—individually and as a trustee—filed a Complaint suing the Norlund
Defendants and Nominal Defendant Nancy Hymas—as Trustee for Trust A FBO Nancy
Hymas and Trust B FBO Nancy Hymas (Nancy Hymas)—pursuant to claims of (1)
Judicial Foreclosure, (2) Fraud, and (3) Interference with Prospective Economic
Advantage.
On July 29, 2020, Sandra Norlund
filed a First Amended Complaint (FAC) stating the same claims against the same
Defendants and Nominal Defendant.
The fraud and interference claims
were stricken by Department 40 on April 13, 2021, based on a representation by
Plaintiffs that only the Judicial Foreclosure cause of action remained, i.e.,
an election of remedies.
The FAC’s judicial foreclosure
claim arises from the following allegations. Richard Norlund, Nancy Hymas
(sister to Richard), and Sandra Norlund (sister-in-law to Richard and Nancy,
husband deceased) were the trustees of Trust A and B of the Norlund Family
Trust dated March 16, 1987, and, on or about April 11, 2019, after litigation
between these individuals in Butte County, California, the parties reached a
settlement agreement. Pursuant to that agreement, the trustee of these trusts
would sell real property known as 14924 and 14930 Arrow Highway, Baldwin Park,
California (the Subject Properties) to Richard Norlund in exchange for a deed
of trust and promissory note worth $1.47 million to be assigned to Sandra
Norlund and Nancy Hymas, among other terms. Richard defaulted on the promissory
note by failing and refusing to pay Sandra the agreed upon $7,668.22 per month
required by the note and breached the settlement agreement by modifying the
terms of the deed of trust so that it referred to a different promissory note,
undercutting Sandra’s and Nancy’s ability to foreclose on the deed of trust.
Specifically, Richard, with Sharon’s assistance, changed the date of the
promissory note appearing on the deed of trust such that the promissory note on
the deed of trust did not match the date on the promissory note assigned to
Sandra and Nancy. Richard also recorded the altered deed of trust without
Sandra’s approval and refused to provide Sandra with appropriate documentation
to allow her to obtain a lender’s policy of title insurance.
On October 20, 2023, Nancy Hymas
filed a Complaint in Intervention alleging claims of (1) Judicial Foreclosure,
(2) Fraud, and (3) Interference with Prospective Economic Advantage against the
Norlund Defendants.
The Complaint in Intervention’s
claims arise largely from the same allegations as Sandra Norlund’s pleading but
framed around Nancy Hymas’s resulting injuries.
The Los Angeles case was and is
assigned to Department 40 at the Stanley Mosk Courthouse (the Court).
B. Motion Before the Court
On December 15, 2023, Plaintiffs
Sandra Norlund filed a motion for leave to file a Second Amended Complaint in
the Lead Case. The motion was set for hearing on January 11, 2024.
On December 22, 2023, Plaintiffs
Sandra Norlund file an amended notice noting that the hearing on Sandra
Norlund’s motion was now set for March 20, 2024.
On March 7, 2024, the Norlund
Defendants filed an opposition to Plaintiffs Sandra Norlund’s motion.
On March 11, 2024, Plaintiffs
Sandra Norlund filed a notice noting Sandra’s lodging of a revised proposed SAC
in relation to the March 20, 2024, hearing on her motion for leave to amend
(Revised SAC). The revision removed Rick Edwards and Rick Edwards Inc. pursuant
to a stipulation between Sandra Norlund, Nancy Hymas, and Rick Edwards and
followed shortly after a hearing on a motion for leave to amend filed by
Intervenor Nancy Hymas.
On March 13, 2024, Plaintiffs
Sandra Norlund filed a reply to the Norlund Defendants’ opposition.
That same day, Plaintiffs Sandra
Norlund lodged the Revised Proposed SAC.
Plaintiffs Sandra Norlund’s motion
is now before the Court.
 
II. Motion for Leave to Amend: GRANTED.
A. Legal Standard
California Code of Civil Procedure
section 473, subdivision (a)(1) provides, in relevant part: “The court may, in
furtherance of justice, and on any terms as may be proper, allow a party to
amend any pleading or proceeding by adding or striking out the name of any
party, or by correcting a mistake in the name of a party, or a mistake in any
other respect; and may, upon like terms, enlarge the time for answer or
demurrer. The court may likewise, in its discretion, after notice to the
adverse party, allow, upon any terms as may be just, an amendment to any
pleading or proceeding in other particulars; and may upon like terms allow an
answer to be made after the time limited by this code.”
Under California Rules of Court
Rule, rule 3.1324, subdivision (a), a motion to amend a pleading shall: 
(1) Include a copy of the proposed
amendment or amended pleading, which must be serially numbered to differentiate
it from previous pleadings or amendments;
(2) State what allegations in the
previous pleading are proposed to be deleted, if any, and where, by page,
paragraph and line number, the deleted allegations are located; and
(3) State what allegations are
proposed to be added to the previous pleading, if any, and where, by page,
paragraph, and line number, the additional allegations are located.
Under California Rules of Court,
rule 3.1324, subdivision (b), a separate declaration must accompany the motion
and must specify:
(1) The effect of the amendment;
(2) Why the amendment is necessary
and proper;
(3) When the facts giving rise to
the amended allegations were discovered; and
(4) The reasons why the request for
amendment was not made earlier.
“This discretion should be
exercised liberally in favor of amendments, for judicial policy favors
resolution of all disputed matters in the same lawsuit.” (Kittredge Sports
Co. v. Superior Court (1989) 213 Cal.App.3d 1045, 1047 (Kittredge Sports).)
Although California courts will not
ordinarily consider the validity of a proposed amended pleading in ruling on a
motion for leave to amend given that any grounds for a demurrer or a motion to
strike will be premature at that time, courts do have discretion to deny leave
to amend when “the insufficiency of the proposed amendment is established by
controlling precedent and … [can]not be cured by further appropriate
amendment.” (See California Casualty General Ins. Co. v. Superior Court
(1985) 173 Cal.App.3d 274, 280-281 (California Casualty), citations
omitted, overruled on other grounds by Kransco v. American Empire Surplus
Lines Ins. Co. (2000) 23 Cal.4th 390, 403-406; see, e.g., Foxborough v.
Van Atta (1994) 26 Cal.App.4th 217, 231 [not an abuse of discretion to deny
leave to amend when “proposed amendment would have been futile because it was
barred by the statute of limitations” with no indication of relating back to
the original complaint].) However, where “the proposed legal theory [at issue]
is a novel one, ‘the preferable practice would be to permit the amendment and
allow the parties to test its legal sufficiency by demurrer, motion for
judgment on the pleadings or other appropriate proceedings.’” (Kittredge
Sports, supra, 213 Cal.App.3d at p. 1048, quoting California
Casualty, supra, at p. 280.)
Moreover, even if a proposed
amendment is filed in proper form, a long, unwarranted, and unexcused delay in
presenting the amendment may nevertheless serve as grounds for a court to deny
leave to amend. (Roemer v. Retail Credit Co. (1975) 44 Cal.App.3d 926,
939-940.) In most cases, the factors for timeliness are: (1) lack of diligence
in discovering the facts or in offering the amendment after knowledge of them;
and (2) the effect of the delay on the adverse party. (Id. at p. 940.)
If the party seeking the amendment has been dilatory, and the delay has
prejudiced the opposing party, the judge has discretion to deny leave to amend.
(Hirsa v. Superior Court (1981) 118 Cal.App.3d 486, 490.) Prejudice
exists where the amendment would require delaying the trial, resulting in loss
of critical evidence, or added costs of preparation such as an increased burden
of discovery. (Magpali v. Farmers Group, Inc. (1996) 48 Cal.App.4th 471,
486-488.)
B. Analysis 
1. Procedural
Requirements 
Here, Plaintiffs Sandra Norlund’s
motion satisfies California Rules of Court, rule 3.1324, subdivision (a). Plaintiffs
Sandra Norlund’s motion attaches a copy of proposed SAC with redlines and
bluelines showing passages added to and removed from Sandra Norlund’s FAC (Mot.,
Plummer Decl., Ex. A), with Sandra Norlund subsequently filing a Revised SAC
also containing redlines and bluelines. (3/11/24 Notice of Revised SAC; 3/13/24
Proposed Revised SAC.)
Plaintiffs Sandra Norlund’s motion
also satisfies California Rules of Court, rule 3.1324, subdivisions (a)(2)-(3).
Plaintiffs Sandra Norlund’s motion attaches a declaration from counsel
explaining where the deletions and additions to the FAC appear in the proposed
SAC. (Mot., Plummer Decl., ¶ 3.) To the extent the Revised SAC makes further
changes, those are shown in the March 11 and 13, 2024 filings. (3/11/24 Notice
of Revised SAC; 3/13/24 Proposed Revised SAC.)
Last, Plaintiffs Sandra Norlund’s
motion also sufficiently satisfies California Rules of Court, rule 3.1324,
subdivisions (b)(1)-(4). Plaintiffs Sandra Norlund’s motion attaches a
declaration from counsel explaining that Sandra’s motion deletes the fraud and
interference claims stated in the FAC, adds quiet title, reformation of
contract, declaratory relief, and elder abuse claims, and modifies the allegations
of the judicial foreclosure claim. Though counsel’s declaration does not
explain when the facts underlying this amendment were first discovered, the
declaration does explain that the parties began discussing amendment on
December 6, 2023, with this motion following the parties meeting and conferring
on the sufficiency of the quiet title and elder abuse claims, and no meet and
confer on the reformation and declaratory relief claims taking place. (Mot.,
Plummer Decl., ¶¶ 1-4 [¶ 3 repeated].) The Court discusses undue delay below.
2. Substantive
Discussion 
In their opposition to Sandra
Norlund’s motion, the Norlund Defendants argue that leave to amend should be
denied because the proposed SAC is defective as to the elder abuse claim and
has been brought after an inexcusable delay, where counsel’s declaration does
not explain when Sandra Norlund discovered the facts underlying the proposed
amendment or the reasons why the proposed amendment was not filed earlier.
(Opp’n, pp. 2-4.)
In reply, Plaintiffs Sandra Norlund
argues that the elder abuse claim is sufficiently alleged and that there has
been no unreasonable delay for various reasons. Those reasons are that: (1) this
case was stayed pending Sandra Norlund’s appeal of the original November 10,
2021, judgment in favor of the Norlund Defendants on the FAC’s judicial
foreclosure claim, with remittitur only being issued on April 14, 2023; (2) amendment
was premature prior to the October (not September) 2023 hearing on Sandra
Norlund’s motion for summary judgment; (3) the proposed SAC required a lot of
research into the correct chain of title; and (4) no prejudice arises from the
amendment because the operative facts from which the new claims arise already
exist in the pleadings. (Reply, pp. 2-4.)
The Court finds in favor of
Plaintiffs Sandra Norlund.
As to the sufficiency of the
proposed Revised SAC, the Court notes that the Norlund Defendants’ opposition
only challenges the proposed elder abuse claim without challenging the
sufficiency of the quiet title, reformation of contract, and declaratory relief
claims. Moreover, the parties dispute whether certain written instruments
support the allegations in the body of the proposed SAC. (Compare Opp’n, pp.
2-3, with Reply, pp. 2-4.) Under these circumstances, the Court determines that
the most appropriate course is to permit the amendment and allow its
sufficiency to be challenged thereafter.
The Norlund Defendants’ inexcusable
delay argument also lacks merit.
Sandra Norlund filed the FAC on
July 29, 2020, the Court struck the FAC’s second and third causes of action on
April 13, 2021, and the Court granted summary judgment as to the FAC’s first
cause of action in the Norlund Defendants’ favor on August 26, 2021, thus arresting
further amendments at that point. The Court then entered judgment on November
10, 2021, and Sandra Norlund filed her appeal that same day, leading to a stay
through April 14, 2023, when the court of appeal issued remittitur reversing the
trial court in Sandra Norlund’s favor. After that, Sandra Norlund was again
able to request leave to amend but instead filed an affirmative motion for
summary judgment as to the FAC’s first cause of action, which was denied on
October 3, 2023. Sandra Norlund filed this motion two months later, on December
15, 2023. Throughout this timeline, Sandra Norlund could have arguably filed
her motion for leave to amend between April 13, 2021, and August 26, 2021, and
between April 14, 2023, and December 15, 2023. However, given the litigation that
was ongoing during these times, the Court finds that any delay during this
roughly 13-month period was excusable.
Moreover, while the Norlund
Defendants’ opposition argues that Sandra’s motion is inexcusably delayed, the
opposition is not clear as to the prejudice here, e.g., delay in trial, loss of
critical evidence, or an increased burden in discovery. The Court can see a
possible delay of trial arising from this amendment, but such a continuance may
already be in the cards as a result of the Court granting leave to amend as to Intervenor
Nancy Hymas in a prior motion.
The Court thus rejects the Norlund
Defendants’ opposition arguments and GRANTS Sandra Norlund’s motion.
 
III. Conclusion
Plaintiffs Sandra Norlund’s Motion
for Leave to File Second Amended Complaint is GRANTED.
The Clerk may file the March 13,
2024, Revised Second Amended Complaint filed by Plaintiffs Sandra Norlund.