 Case Number:  21STCV40994    Hearing Date:   January 10, 2025    Dept:  29 Edison v. Burton
Plaza Apartments, LLC
21STCV40994
Plaintiff’s Motion to Compel Defendants to Respond to Written Discovery.
Tentative
The Court will call this matter.
Among other things, the briefing does not
adequately address the following issue: have all Defendants provided verified
responses to all of Plaintiff’s sets of discovery requests?
Background
On November 8, 2021, Michele Edison
(“Plaintiff”) filed a complaint against Burton Plaza Apartments, LLC, Statewide
Enterprises, Inc., Arturo Serna, Serna Maintenance (collectively, “Defendants”),
and Does 1 through 50, asserting causes of action for premises liability and
general negligence arising out of an alleged slip and fall on May 20, 2020.
On December 28, 2021, Burton Plaza
Apartments, LLC and Statewide Enterprises, Inc. filed an answer and
cross-complaint against Arturo Serna and Serna Maintenance. The cross-complaint
was dismissed on April 18, 2022.
On April 6, 2022, Arturo Serna and Serna
Maintenance filed an answer to Plaintiff’s complaint.
On December 12, 2024, Plaintiff filed
this single motion to compel each of the four defendants to provide responses
to three separate sets of discovery requests: Form Interrogatories (Set Two),
Special Interrogatories (Set Two), and Requests for Production (Set Two).  Plaintiff also requests monetary sanctions.
 
Defendants filed an opposition on December
26, and Plaintiff filed a reply on December 30.
 
Legal Standard
A party must
respond to interrogatories within 30 days after service. (Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 2030.260, subd.(a).) If a party to whom interrogatories are directed
does not provide a timely response, the propounding party may move for an order
compelling response to the interrogatories. (Id., § 2030.290, subd.
(b).) There is no time limit for a motion to compel initial responses, and no
meet and confer efforts are required. (See Id., § 2030.290; Sinaiko
Healthcare Consulting, Inc. v. Pacific Healthcare Consultants (2007) 148
Cal.App.4th 390, 411.) Nor must a separate statement be filed. (Cal. Rules of
Court, rule 3.1345(b)(1).)  In addition,
a party who fails to provide a timely response generally waives all objections.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.290, subd. (a).) 
When a party moves
to compel initial responses to interrogatories, “the court shall impose a
monetary sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010) against
any party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes [the
motion], unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with
substantial justification or that other circumstances make the imposition of
the sanction unjust.”  (Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 2030.290, subd. (c).)
A party must
respond to requests for production of documents within 30 days after service.
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.260, subd.(a).) If a party to whom requests for
production of documents are directed does not provide timely responses, the
requesting party may move for an order compelling response to the demand. (Id.,
§ 2031.300, subd. (b).) There is no time limit for a motion to compel initial
responses, and no meet and confer efforts are required. (See id., §
2031.300; Sinaiko Healthcare Consulting, Inc. v. Pacific Healthcare
Consultants (2007) 148 Cal.App.4th 390, 411.) Nor must a separate statement
be filed. (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1345(b)(1).)  In addition, a party who fails to provide a
timely response generally waives all objections.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.300, subd. (a).) 
When a party moves to compel initial responses to
requests for production, “the court shall impose a monetary sanction under
Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010) against any party, person, or
attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes [the motion], unless it finds that
the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that
other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.300, subd.
(c).) 
In
Chapter 7 of the Civil Discovery Act, Code of Civil Procedure section 2023.010,
subdivision (d), defines “[m]isuses of the discovery process” to include
“[f]ailing to respond to or to submit to an authorized method of discovery.”  Where a party or attorney has engaged in
misuse of the discovery process, the court may impose a monetary sanction in
the amount of “the reasonable expenses, including attorney’s fees, incurred by
anyone as a result of that conduct.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2023.020, subd. (a).)
Discussion
On November 7, 2024, Plaintiff served
each of the four Defendants with Form Interrogatories (Set Two), Special
Interrogatories (Set Two), and Requests for Production (Set Two). (Ahn Decl., ¶
4 & Exh. 1.) 
 
In opposition, Defendants state that they
served responses to the discovery concurrently with their opposition. Defense
counsel attests that the responses were not served on time due to his
error.  (Pascoe Decl., ¶¶ 3-4.)  Defendants do not, however, attach a copy of
the verified responses to their opposition.
 
Plaintiff acknowledges, in her reply,
that at least some of the discovery responses have been provided.  
 
The Court cannot rule on the motion
without determining whether all discovery responses have been provided.
 
The Court notes four other issues.
 
First, in their opposition, Defendants complain that
Plaintiff failed to meet and confer prior to filing this motion.  In contrast to many other provisions of the
Civil Discovery Act, however, there is no meet-and-confer requirement prior to
filing a motion to compel initial responses to interrogatories or requests for
production.
 
Second, and also in the opposition, Defendants appear to
request relief from waiver of their objections by failing to serve timely
responses.  That request is not properly
before the Court.  If Defendants wish to
obtain this relief, they must file their own noticed motion; Defendants cannot
obtain relief through statements in an opposition to a motion to
compel.  
 
Third, in reply, Plaintiff complains that the responses
provided are not code compliant.  The
Court makes no ruling in this regard.  If
Plaintiff contends that the responses are not code compliant, Plaintiff may
proceed with a motion to compel further responses (after complying with all
procedural requirements, including a meet-and-confer and an Informal Discovery
Conference).
 
Fourth, Plaintiff filed one motion for what should have
been twelve motions. Combining discovery motions allows the moving party to
avoid paying the requisite filing fees. Filing fees are jurisdictional and it
is mandatory for court clerks to demand and receive them. (See Duran v. St.
Luke’s Hospital (2003) 114 Cal.App.4th 457, 460.) Thus, Plaintiff is ordered
to pay the additional 11 filing fees to the Clerk of the Court.Turning to sanctions, the chapters of
the Civil Discovery Act at issue authorize an award of sanctions on a motion to
compel initial responses “against
any party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes [the
motion], unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with
substantial justification or that other circumstances make the imposition of
the sanction unjust.”  (Code Civ. Proc.,
§§ 2030.290 & 2031.300.)  The Court
will hear from counsel, as the Court has not yet determined whether Defendants
have unsuccessfully opposed the motion.
 
Conclusion
 
The Court will hear from counsel.
 