  Case Number:  23AHCV00341    Hearing Date:   April 24, 2024    Dept:  X    Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Joel L. Lofton,
Department X
 
 
HEARING DATE:      April 24, 2024                                     TRIAL DATE: No date set. 
                                                           
CASE:                         PALLICKAL, MALLIK,
PONNEZHAN MEDICAL CORPORATION, a California professional corporation, v. NALIN
MALLIK, M.D., an individual; NM MEDICAL, a California corporation; INNOVATIVE
HEALTH ASSOCIATES, INC., a California corporation; DOES 1 through 20.
 
Cross:                          NALIN MALLICK,
M.D., an individual, v. LEEJOE PALLICKAL, M.D., an individual; VIMAL PONNEZHAN,
M.D., an individual; COMPREHENSIVE CARE PROVIDERS CORPORATION, a California
corporation; PALLICKAL, MALLIK, PONNEZHAN MEDICAL CORPORATION, a California
professional corporation; and ROES 1 through 20. 
 
CASE NO.:                 23AHCV00341
 
 
 
DEMURRER
WITH MOTION TO STRIKE
 
MOTION
FOR ORDER REQUIRING BOND

 
MOVING PARTY:               Comprehensive Care Providers
Corporation, Leejoe Pallickal, M.D. and Vimal Ponnezhan M.D. 
 
                                                Pallickal,
Mallick, Ponnezhan Medical Corporation 
 
RESPONDING PARTY:      Nalin
Mallick M.D.
 
SERVICE:                              Demurrers separately filed March 7, 2024
 
OPPOSITION:                       Filed April 11, 2024
 
REPLY:                                   Filed April 17, 2024
 
RELIEF
REQUESTED 
 
             CCPC demurrers to Cross-Complainant’s
second cause of action. CCPC moves to strike portions of the SACC.
 
            PMP demurrers to
Cross-Complainant’s second and fourth causes of action.
 
            Cross-Defendants move
for an order requiring Cross-Complainant to furnish a bond. 
 
BACKGROUND
 
             This case arises out of Plaintiff Pallickal,
Mallik, Ponnezhan Medical Corporation’s claim that Defendant Nalin Mallick,
M.D. (“Dr. Mallick”) breached his fiduciary duty to Plaintiff. Plaintiff filed
this complaint on February 16, 2023, alleging two causes of action of action
for breach of fiduciary duty and intentional interference with prospective
economic advantage.
 
            Dr. Mallick filed a second amended
cross-complaint (“SACC”) on December 19, 2023, alleging four causes of action
for breach of fiduciary duty.
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 
            PMP’s
demurrer to Cross-Complainant’s second
and fourth causes of action is OVERRULED.
 
            CCPC’s
demurrer to Cross-Complainant’s second
cause of action is OVERRULED.
 
            CCPC’S
motion to strike is DENIED.
 
            Cross-Defendant’s
motion for an order requiring Cross-Complainant to furnish a bond is DENIED.
 
LEGAL STANDARD
            
            Demurrer 
 
A general demurrer
may be taken to a complaint where “[t]he pleading does not state facts sufficient to
constitute a cause of action.” (Code of Civ. Proc. § 430.10(e).) A demurrer for sufficiency tests whether the
complaint states a cause of action.  (Hahn
v. Mirda (2007) 147 Cal. App. 4th 740, 747.) In a demurrer proceeding, the
defects must be apparent on the face of the pleading or by proper judicial
notice.  (Code Civ. Proc. section
430.30(a).)  A demurrer tests the pleadings alone and not the evidence or
other extrinsic matters.  (SKF Farms v. Superior Court (1984) 153
Cal. App. 3d 902, 905.)  The only issue involved in a demurrer hearing is
whether the complaint, as it stands, unconnected with extraneous matters,
states a cause of action.  (Hahn v.
Mirda, supra, 147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747.)
 
Additionally, a
special demurrer to a complaint may be brought on the ground the pleading is
uncertain, ambiguous, or unintelligible. Code Civ. Proc section 430.10(f); Beresford Neighborhood Assn. v. City of
San Mateo (1989) 207 Cal.App.3d 1180, 1191.) A demurrer based
on uncertainty is disfavored and will be strictly construed even when the
pleading is uncertain in some respects. (Khoury v. Maly's of California, Inc. (1993) 14
Cal.App.4th 612, 616.) A demurrers based on uncertainty are “granted only if
the pleading is so incomprehensible that a defendant cannot reasonably
respond.” (Lickiss v. Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (2012) 208
Cal.App.4th 1125, 1135.) 
 
Motion to Strike
 
Any party, within the time allowed to respond to a pleading
may serve and file a notice of motion to strike a pleading or any part
thereof.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 435, subd. (b)(1).)  The
court may, upon a motion, or at any time in its discretion, and upon terms
it deems proper, strike any irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted in
any pleading.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 436, subd. (a).)  The court may
also strike all or any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity with
California law, a court rule, or an order of the court.  (Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 436, subd. (b).)  An immaterial or irrelevant allegation is one that is
not essential to the statement of a claim or defense; is neither pertinent to
nor supported by an otherwise sufficient claim or defense; or a demand for
judgment requesting relief not supported by the allegations of the
complaint.  (Code Civ. Proc., 431.10, subd. (b).)  The grounds for
moving to strike must appear on the face of the pleading or by way of judicial
notice.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 437.)  
 
DISCUSSION
 
            Demurrer
 
            This
hearing involves two separately filed demurrers. One demurrer is filed by
Comprehensive Care Providers Corporation (“CCPC”), Leejoe Pallickal, M.D. (“Dr.
Pallickal”), and Vinal Ponnezhan, M.D. (“Dr. Ponnezhan”) (collectively
“Cross-Defendants”). The second demurrer is filed by Pallickal, Mallick,
Ponnezhan Medical Corporation (“PMP” or “Nominal Cross-Defendant”).
 
            PMP
Demurrer
 
            PMP
demurrers to Cross-Complainant’s second and fourth causes of action for breach
of fiduciary duty. PMP specifically argue that the SACC fails to sufficiently
allege facts to satisfy the presuit demand requirements of Corporations Code
section 800, subdivision (b)(2).
 
“ ‘The elements of a claim for
breach of fiduciary duty are (1) the existence of a fiduciary relationship, (2)
its breach, and (3) damage proximately caused by that breach.’ ” (O’Neal v.
Stanislaus County Employees’ Retirement Assn. (2017) 8 Cal.App.5th 1184, 1215.) The first and third causes of
action are facially listed as direct claims while the second and fourth causes
of action are facially listed as derivative claims.
 
            “Shareholders
may bring two types of actions, ‘a direct action
filed by the shareholder individually (or on behalf of a class of shareholders to which he or she belongs)
for injury to his or her interest as a shareholder,’
or a ‘derivative action filed on behalf of the corporation for injury to the corporation for
which it has failed or refused to sue.’ ” (Schuster v. Gardner (2005)
127 Cal.App.4th 305, 311-12.) “A single cause of action by a shareholder can
give rise to derivative claims, individual claims, or both.” (Goles v.
Sawhney (2016) 5 Cal.App.5th 1014, 1018, fn. 3.) “But where a cause of
action seeks to recover for harms to the corporation, the shareholders have no
direct cause of action ‘[b]ecause a corporation exists as a separate legal
entity’ [citation] and ‘is the ultimate beneficiary of such a derivative suit’
”. (Schrage v. Schrage (2021) 69 Cal.App.5th 126, 149.) 
 
Corporations Code section 800, subdivision (b)(2),
(“section 800”) requires a plaintiff to allege “in the complaint with particularity
plaintiff’s efforts to secure from the board such action as plaintiff desires,
or the reasons for not making such effort, and alleges further that plaintiff
has either informed the corporation or the board in writing of the ultimate
facts of each cause of action against each defendant or delivered to the
corporation or the board a true copy of the complaint which plaintiff proposes
to file.”
 
            PMP
contends that Cross-Complainant’s causes of action fail because the SACC fails
to allege that SACC provided written notice of the facts of each cause of
action prior to filing this suit. The primary issue is whether Cross-Complainant,
by not providing written notice prior to filing the initial cross-complaint,
lacks standing going forward. Neither party has presented any cases, nor it the
court able to find any, that directly discusses the issue.
 
            However,
the court finds that Cross-Complainant’s allegations are sufficient. As a
preliminary matter, Cross-Complainant’s allegations revolving around futility
are alleged with sufficient particularity. (SACC ¶ 42.) Additionally, Cross-Complainant
alleges that the board was notified in writing of the ultimate facts of each
cause of action. (Ibid.) At the pleading stage, Cross-Complainant’s
allegations are sufficient. 
 
            PMP’s
demurrer to Cross-Complainant’s second and fourth causes of action is
overruled.
 
            CCPC
Demurrer
 
            CCPC demurrer’s to Cross-Complainant’s second cause of action on
the grounds that the SACC fails to allege facts sufficient to state a claim for
constructive trust. CCPC argues that 
 
            “A constructive trust is an equitable remedy that
compels a wrongdoer – one who has property or proceeds to which he is not
justly entitled – to transfer same to its rightful owner.” (Shoker v.
Superior Couty of Alameda County (2022) 81 Cal.App.5th 271, 278.) The
elements required to create a constructive trust are (1) the property, (2) the
plaintiff’s right to that property, and (3) the defendant’s acquisition of the
property by some wrongful act. (Optional Capital, Inc. v. DAS Corp. (2014) 222
Cal.App.4th 1388, 1402.) Here, Cross-Complainant alleges that CCPC usurped PMP’s
corporate opportunities and wrongfully kept the proceeds. (SACC ¶ 42a.) At the pleading stage,
Cross-Complainant’s allegations are sufficient to state a claim for
constructive trust. 
 
            Additionally, CCPC’s motion to strike is reliant on the
present demurrer. Because CCPC’s demurrer was overruled, CCPC’s motion to
strike is denied.
 
            Motion to Furnish Bond
 
            The individual Cross-Defendants move
for an order requiring Dr. Mallick to furnish a bond totaling $50,000.
Corporations Code section 800, subdivision (c), provides: “In any action referred to in
subdivision (b), at any time within 30 days after service of summons upon the
corporation or upon any defendant who is an officer or director of the
corporation, or held such office at the time of the acts complained of, the corporation
or the defendant may move the court for an order, upon notice and hearing,
requiring the plaintiff to furnish a bond as hereinafter provided. The motion
shall be based upon one or both of the following grounds: [¶] (1) That there is no
reasonable possibility that the prosecution of the cause of action alleged in
the complaint against the moving party will benefit the corporation or its
shareholders. [¶] (2) That
the moving party, if other than the corporation, did not participate in the
transaction complained of in any capacity. [¶] The court on application of the corporation or
any defendant may, for good cause shown, extend the 30-day period for an
additional period or periods not exceeding 60 days.”
 
            Cross-Defendants
contend that Cross-Complainant should be required to furnish a bond in the
present case. Cross-Defendants argue that there is no reasonable possibility
that this claim will benefit the corporation or its shareholders.
Cross-Complainants provide that PMP is winding down so any recover would not be
helpful. However, Cross-Complainants do not establish how a recovery of money
allegedly misappropriated would not benefit PMP, even if PMP is winding down.
Cross-Defendants have failed to establish grounds requiring a bond.
 
CONCLUSION
 
            PMP’s
demurrer to Cross-Complainant’s second
and fourth causes of action is OVERRULED.
 
            CCPC’s
demurrer to Cross-Complainant’s second
cause of action is OVERRULED.
 
            CCPC’S
motion to strike is DENIED.
 
            Cross-Defendant’s
motion for an order requiring Cross-Complainant to furnish a bond is DENIED.
 
 
            Moving
Party to provide notice. 
 
 
            
Dated:   April 24, 2024                                               ___________________________________
                                                                                    Joel
L. Lofton
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court
 
Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must send an
email to the court indicating their 
intention to submit.  alhdeptx@lacourt.org
