  Case Number:  22BBV01020    Hearing Date:   January 3, 2025    Dept:  A LOS
ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT
NORTH
CENTRAL DISTRICT - BURBANK
DEPARTMENT
A
 

TENTATIVE
RULING
JANUARY 3,
2025

MOTION FOR
RELIEF FROM ADMISSIONS

Los Angeles Superior Court
Case # 22BBCV01020

 



MP:  


Topa Insurance Company (Plaintiff)




RP:  


Taltech Construction, Inc.
  (Defendant) 



 
ALLEGATIONS: 
 
Topa Insurance Company (Plaintiff), as subrogee of its
insured Khachik Aslanyan, brings this action against Garnik Gholikandi
Badalyans, individually and dba 11104 Oro Vista LLC, Taltech Construction, Inc.
(Taltech) and 11104 Oro Vista, LLC (collectively Defendants). Plaintiff seeks
subrogation in connection with losses its alleges were caused by Defendants.
Specifically, Plaintiff alleges Defendants failure to design and contract
ventilation safeguards at 11104 Oro Vista Ave, Sunland, California 91040, resulted
in significant water damage to that property. 
 
Before the Court is a motion by Plaintiff for relief from
admissions made in response to Taltech’s Request for Admissions propounded
August 16, 2024. Plaintiff’s previous motion for relief was denied without
prejudice, as the Court found the declaration of Plaintiff’s counsel was
insufficient to establish “mistake, inadvertence, or excusable neglect”. Taltech
opposes the motion and plaintiff replies. 


ANALYSIS: 
 
I.               
LEGAL STANDARD 
 
C.C.P.
§ 2033.300 states:
 
(a) A party may
withdraw or amend an admission made in response to a request for admission only
on leave of court granted after notice to all parties.
 
(b) The court may
permit withdrawal or amendment of an admission only if it determines that the
admission was the result of mistake, inadvertence, or excusable neglect, and
that the party who obtained the admission will not be substantially prejudiced
in maintaining that party's action or defense on the merits.
 
(c) The court may
impose conditions on the granting of the motion that are just, including, but
not limited to, the following:
 
(1) An order that the
party who obtained the admission be permitted to pursue additional discovery
related to the matter involved in the withdrawn or amended admission. 
 
(2) An order that the
costs of any additional discovery be borne in whole or in part by the party
withdrawing or amending the admission.
 
C.C.P.
§ 2033.300 permits amendment or withdrawal of admissions expressly made by a
party and also applies to “deemed admissions.” (Wilcox v. Birtwhistle
(1999) 21 Cal.4th 973, 979.)
 
“The
court may permit withdrawal of an admission only if the admission was the
result of mistake, inadvertence, or excusable neglect and the opposing party
will not be substantially prejudiced.” (Stover v. Bruntz (2017) 12
Cal.App.5th 19, 30-31.) “Because the law strongly favors trial and disposition
on the merits, any doubts in applying section 2033.300 must be resolved in
favor of the party seeking relief. “Accordingly, the court's discretion to deny
a motion under the statute is limited to circumstances where it is clear that
the mistake, inadvertence, or neglect was inexcusable, or where it is clear
that the withdrawal or amendment would substantially prejudice the party who
obtained the admission in maintaining that party's action or defense on the merits.”
(New Albertsons v. Superior Court (2008) 168 Cal.App.4th 1403, 1420-21.)
 
The
words “mistake, inadvertence, or excusable neglect” have the same meaning in
the discovery statutes as those terms have in C.C.P. § 473(b). (New
Albertsons supra, 168 Cal.App.4th at 1418-19; see also Carli v. Superior
Court (1984) 152 Cal.App.3d 1095, 1099.) “Mistake is not a ground for
relief under section 473, subdivision (b), when 'the court finds that the
“mistake” is simply the result of professional incompetence, general ignorance
of the law, or unjustifiable negligence in discovering the law...’[Citation.]”
(Hearn v. Howard (2009) 177 Cal.App.4th 1193, 1206
 
II.             
MERITS 
 
Plaintiff
seeks relief from his response to Defendant’s RFA propounded August 16, 2024. Plaintiff
now identifies that it wishes to change its answers to Taltech’s RFA Nos. three
and four. These requests are as follows: 
 
RFA No. 3: Admit that
following the incident, the insured never replaced the subject sprinkler. 
 
RFA No. 4: Admit that you
have no evidence to show that the subject sprinkler was replaced following the incident.

 
(Mot.
p. 4.) 
 
Plaintiff
previously answered ‘admit” to both of the above RFA. Plaintiff now seeks to
amend its answer to reflect the newly learned information that their insured
did replace the sprinkler. 
 
Plaintiff
submits the declaration of its counsel Sally Noma (Noma) in support of their
claim that the previous answers were rendered as the result of “mistake,
inadvertence, or excusable neglect. Noma states that as part of its
investigation, Plaintiff collected the sprinkler in question. (Noma Decl.
¶ 5.) Noma states that she personally spoke to the insured on October 4,
2024, during which time she asked him if the sprinkler had been replaced. (Noma
Decl. ¶ 7.) The insured confirmed the sprinkler had been replaced. (Id.)
Noma also states that the attorney who prepared the previous responses is no
longer with the firm, thus Noma is unaware of the reason the incorrect
responses were initially provided. (Noma Decl. ¶ 4.) 
 
The
Court begins by addressing Taltech’s objections to the Noma declaration.
Taltech objects to (1) Noma’s statement regarding the call with the insured and
(2) Noma’s statement that she does not know the reason the original responses
were incorrect. Taltech’s objections are that these statements are
impermissible hearsay and that they lack personal knowledge. 
 
While
the Court ruled the declaration in Plaintiff’s previous motion did rely on
inadmissible hearsay, the Noma declaration is of a different nature. The
previous declaration read, “In preparing responses to Requests, incorrect
information was presented by my client, which has since been cleared up in
discussions with its insured.” The Court found this statement relied on hearsay
because it asserted that the responses were incorrect based on the out of court
statement of the insured to Plaintiff, which was then relayed indirectly to
Plaintiff’s counsel.
 
The
Court need not address whether the declaration is based on hearsay; the issue is
whether relief should be granted under the standards of  C.C.P. §2033.300(b).  Here Plaintiff did not provide any
declaration directly from the insured that any mistake, inadvertence or
excusable neglect occurred.   For
example, the insured did not advise what was said to the attorney handling the
case which resulted in the original admissions.   Since request for admissions must be
verified, the insured did not explain in a declaration why the insured verified
incorrect answers. (C.C.P. §2033.210). 
The issue that the answers were wrong does not by itself result in
relief if the incorrect answer was not based on mistake, inadvertence or
excusable neglect but inexcusable neglect or from a carefree review of answers
under oath.  (Hearn v. Howard, supra,
177 Cal.App.4th 1193, 1206) (general ignorance of the law or negligence in
discovering the law is not a basis for relief).
 
The
Court also finds no evidence that prejudice would befall either party upon
granting this motion; however, Plaintiff has not met the burden.  As such, the denial of this motion will again
be without prejudice.  Taltech has
briefed no reason why the correction of the admissions would substantially
prejudice their ability to defend this action on the merits; however, that does
not excuse Plaintiff from the burden to who mistake or neglect before the Court
determines prejudice. 
 
Accordingly,
Plaintiff’s motion for relief from admissions is DENIED without prejudice. 
 
--- 
 
RULING:
 
In the
event the parties submit on this tentative ruling, or a party requests a signed
order or the court in its discretion elects to sign a formal order, the
following form will be either electronically signed or signed in hard copy and
entered into the court’s records. 
 
ORDER 
 
Topa Insurance
Company’s Motion for Relief from Admissions came on
regularly for hearing on January 3, 2025 with appearances/submissions as noted
in the minute order for said hearing, and the court, being fully advised in the
premises, did then and there rule as follows: 
 
PLAINTIFF’S MOTION FOR RELIEF FROM ADMISSIONS IS DENIED
WITHOUT PREJUDICE. 
 
PLAINTIFF TO GIVE
NOTICE.
 
IT IS SO
ORDERED. 
 
DATE: 
January 3, 2025                                 _______________________________ 
                                                                   
    F.M.
TAVELMAN, Judge 
Superior Court of California 
County of
Los Angeles 
 
 