 On December 7, 2023, Plaintiff Teresa Martinez filed the operative Complaint for (1) FEHA discrimination, (2) FEHA failure to prevent discrimination, (3) FEHA failure to engage in the interactive process, (4) FEHA failure to provide reasonable accommodations, (5) FEHA retaliation, (6) FEHA harassment, (7) FEHA failure to prevent harassment, (8)-(10) violations of Lab. Code §§ 98.6, 1102.5, 6310, and (11) wrongful termination.   Defendants Goodwin Procter LLP and D’Juan Parker demur to all causes of action for uncertainty and failure to state sufficient facts.  They argue that the Complaint consists only of legal conclusions without any actual facts pleaded.When considering demurrers, courts read the allegations liberally and in context, and “treat the demurrer as admitting all material facts properly pleaded, but not contentions, deductions or conclusions of fact or law.” (Serrano v. Priest (1971) 5 Cal.3d 584, 591.)  “A demurrer tests the pleadings alone and not the evidence or other extrinsic matters. Therefore, it lies only where the defects appear on the face of the pleading or are judicially noticed. The only issue involved in a demurrer hearing is whether the complaint, as it stands, unconnected with extraneous matters, states a cause of action.”  (Hahn v. Mirda¿(2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747.)  It is error “to sustain a demurrer without leave to amend if the plaintiff shows there is a reasonable possibility any defect identified by the defendant can be cured by amendment.”  (Aubry v. Tri-City Hospital Dist.¿(1992) 2 Cal.4th 962, 967.)Defendants are mostly correct.  The only causes of action that have factual support are the sixth and seventh causes of action relating to harassment.  The Complaint adequately alleges that Plaintiff was called a “little bitch” and “stuck up white bitch.”  Factual issues remain, and, thus, the Demurrer is overruled as to the sixth and seventh causes of action.The Demurrer is sustained as to all other causes of action, with 20 days leave to amend.  This is because there are no actual facts pleaded to support such claims.Moving party to give notice.If counsel do not submit on the tentative, they are strongly encouraged to appear by LACourtConnect rather than in person due to the COVID-19 pandemic. 