 On July 1, 2020, Plaintiffs David Reed and Connie Reed filed the operative Complaint for (1) breach of contract and (2) fraud against Defendants Cal Homes Group, Inc. and Eddie Salinas.  Plaintiffs allege that the parties reached a written settlement agreement through mediation whereby Defendants promised to pay Plaintiffs $15,000 in connection with a purchase of a property that contained certain material defects, but Defendants failed to pay the agreed upon amount when it became due per the settlement agreement. On April 22, 2021, a default judgment was entered against Defendants Cal Homes Group, Inc. and Eddie Salinas. On August 31, 2021, the default judgment was amended to include HVMJ, LLC as a Defendant having alter ego liability.   On January 5, 2022, the Court vacated the amended default judgment on the basis of Code Civ. Proc. § 473.5.   On January 6, 2022, Defendants Cal Homes Group, Inc., Eddie Salinas, and HVMJ, LLC filed an Answer asserting a general denial and fifteen affirmative defenses.   Plaintiffs now seek judgment on the pleadings with respect to the Answer, contending that the affirmative defenses cannot defeat Plaintiffs’ breach of contract and fraud claims.  To support their arguments, Plaintiffs point the Court to its rulings on their (a) application for default judgment, (b) motion for charging order, and (c) motion to amend the default judgment.  In those rulings, the Court stated that the evidence supported that Defendants were alter egos and that Salinas used HVMJ to avoid the obligations incurred by him and Cal Homes.  “A defendant may move for judgment on the pleadings on the ground that the complaint does not state facts sufficient to state a cause of action against that defendant. A motion for judgment on the pleadings ‘is equivalent to a demurrer . . . .’ Leave to amend ‘is properly denied if the facts and nature of plaintiffs’ claims are clear and under the substantive law, no liability exists.’ ”  (Templo v. State¿(2018) 24 Cal.App.5th 730, 735.)  While the Court can take judicial notice of its rulings, it cannot necessarily take judicial notice of the truth of the matters therein, particularly where those matters are currently disputed by Defendants.  Importantly, the rulings at issue pertain to when Defendants had defaulted and could not dispute the assertions made by Plaintiffs.  Those findings cannot now be used to defeat an operative pleading.Thus, the Motion for Judgment on the Pleadings is denied.  The Requests for Judicial Notice are granted.   The objections are overruled. Moving party to give notice.If counsel do not submit on the tentative, they are strongly encouraged to appear by LACourtConnect rather than in person due to the COVID-19 pandemic.