 Case Number:  22STCV02085    Hearing Date:   February 8, 2024    Dept:  17 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
 
DEPARTMENT
17
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 



SEBASTIAN DONOVAN, et al
 
  
        
  vs.
 
QUANTGENE, INC.,
  et al.
 


 Case
  No.:  23STCV02085 
 
 
 
 Hearing Date:  February 8, 2024




QUANTGENE, INC., et al.
 
            vs.
 
SEBASTIAN DONOVAN, et al.










 
 

Plaintiffs’
motion for leave to amend is GRANTED.
 
On 1/31/2023,
Plaintiffs Sebastian Donovan and Arconex (collectively, Plaintiffs) filed suit
against Quantgene, Inc. and Johannes Bhakdi (collectively, Defendants),
alleging: (1) breach of contract; (2) breach of implied covenant of good faith
and fair dealing; (3) unjust enrichment; (4) intentional misrepresentation; (5)
negligent misrepresentation; and (6) violation of Business and Professions Code
section 17200.
 
            On
3/3/2022, Cross-Complainants Quantgene, Inc. and Johannes Bhakdi filed a
cross-complaint (XC) against Cross-Defendants Sebastian Donovan and Arconex,
alleging: (1) breach of contract; (2) breach of implied covenant of good faith
and fair dealing; (3) false promise; (4) intentional misrepresentation; (5)
concealment; (6) negligent misrepresentation; (7) conversion; (8) unjust
enrichment; (9) intentional interference with contractual relations; and (10)
unfair business practices. 
 
            On
9/25/2023, Plaintiffs Sebastian Donovan and Arconex, Inc (Plaintiffs) moved for
leave to file a First Amended Complaint (FAC). 
 
Discussion 
 
            Plaintiffs
seek leave to amend to add facts and a cause of action that were not available
to Plaintiffs at the time that the original Complaint was filed. More
specifically, Plaintiffs seek to add a fraudulent transfer cause of action and
to allege that Defendant Bhakdi and Quantgene, Inc. are alter-egos.  
 
            In
support, Plaintiffs note that at the time that filed the Complaint, Plaintiffs
were not privy to Quantgene’s financial situation. However:
 
[T]he limited
discovery Quantgene has provided to date reflects that although Quantgene sold
approximately $23 million in COVID testing sales in 2022, its bank account has
run nearly dry. This is not the result of an mere business downturn. Plaintiffs
are now aware that Mr. Bhakdi, who is the majority shareholder of Quantgene and
exercises absolute control over its business dealings, has been systematically
draining Quantgene of assets and using its assets for his own personal
enrichment, which is likely in anticipation of Mr. Bhakdi’s scheme to shutter
Quantgene as an empty shell, with all of its assets siphoned off and none
remaining to pay its creditors.
 
The actions
Mr. Bhakdi has taken to drain Quantgene of its assets include: 
 
• Siphoning
off funds from Quantgene outside of the ordinary course compensation process to
an entity controlled by Mr. Bhakdi;
 
• Causing
Quantgene to pay substantial sums of money for his personal residence and
personal automobile. 
 
• Attempting
to sell off Quantgene’s valuable laboratory equipment, worth millions of
dollars, so that he can seize the proceeds for his own personal benefit;
 
• Attempting
to transfer Quantgene’s assets, without receiving fair consideration, to a
newly formed genomics company that is intended to provide the same services as
Quantgene while avoiding the obligations Quantgene has to creditors.
 
                        (Motion,
10: 9-22.)
 
            Plaintiffs
contend that they are confident that further discovery will demonstrate
additional acts by Mr. Bhakdi designed to operate Quantgene as an extension of
himself and to enrich himself to the detriment of Quantgene’s vendors,
creditors and business partners.
 
            After
review, the Court agrees that leave to amend is warranted here. First, the policy favoring leave to amend is so strong that it is
an abuse of discretion to deny an amendment unless the adverse party can show
meaningful prejudice. (Atkinson v. Elk Corp. (2003) 109
Cal.App.4th 739, 761.) Second, the allegations
that Plaintiffs seeks to add to the proposed amended complaint were not known
to Plaintiffs at the time the original complaint was filed, and Plaintiff only
learned of the supporting facts between the time of May 2023 and September 2023.[1]
(Carnevale Decl. ¶ 10-12.) Third, there is inadequate evidence of meaningful
prejudice to Defendants if leave to amend is granted. The trial date is in
August 2024, leaving time for the parties to take discovery on the new causes
of action and for Defendants to prepare their defenses for trial. Additionally,
no depositions have yet occurred in the case, meaning that no witnesses who
have already been deposed would need to sit for a second time. (Carnevale Decl.
¶ 14.) In addition, the majority of the written discovery that is relevant to
these claims has already been propounded by Plaintiffs.
 
            Based
on the foregoing, Plaintiffs’ motion for leave to amend is granted. 
 
 
It is so ordered. 
 
Dated:  February   
, 2024
                                                                                                                                                           
   Hon. Jon R.
Takasugi
   Judge of the
Superior Court
 
 
 
Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must
send an email to the court at smcdept17@lacourt.org
by 4 p.m. the day prior as directed by the instructions provided on the court
website at www.lacourt.org.  If a party submits
on the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must
identify the party submitting on the tentative. 
If all parties to a motion submit, the court will adopt this
tentative as the final order.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  For more information, please contact the court clerk at (213)
633-0517.  
 


