  Case Number:  24CHCV01021    Hearing Date:   July 1, 2024    Dept:  F49    Dept.    F49      Date:    7/1/24     Case    Name: Lloyd E. Rollins v. Walditrudez P. Lopez, and Does 1-250     Case No.    24CHCV01021      LOS  ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT NORTH  VALLEY DISTRICT DEPARTMENT  F49    JULY 1, 2024    MOTION TO APPOINT SUCCESSOR IN  INTEREST  Los Angeles Superior Court Case No. 24CHCV01021    Motion  filed: 5/21/24   MOVING PARTY: Janice Motta (“Motta”) RESPONDING PARTY: None NOTICE: OK   RELIEF  REQUESTED: An  order appointing Motta, the surviving niece of decedent Plaintiff Lloyd Rollins  (“Rollins” or “Decedent”), as Successor in Interest and to substitute decedent  Rollins as Plaintiff in this case.   TENTATIVE  RULING: The  motion is GRANTED.   BACKGROUND   On March 22, 2024, Plaintiff Rollins (deceased) filed a  complaint against Defendant Walditrudez P. Lopez (“Lopez” or “Defendant”) and  Does 1 through 250, alleging (1) Elder Abuse (Welfare and Institutions Code §§  15600 et seq.), and (2) Negligence. Subsequently, on May 8, 2024, Lopez filed  an Answer to the Complaint.    On May 21, 2024, Motta filed the instant Motion to Appoint Successor  in Interest (the “Motion”).               No  Opposition or Reply papers have been received by the Court.   ANALYSIS   “On motion after the death  of a person who commenced an action or proceeding, the court shall allow a  pending action or proceeding that does not abate to be continued by the  decedent's personal representative or, if none, by the decedent's successor in  interest.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 377.31.) The “successor in interest” essentially  steps into the decedent's position as to a particular action. (Exarhos v.  Exarhos (2008) 159 Cal.App.4th 898, 905.)    “A pending action or  proceeding does not abate by the death of a party if the cause of action  survives.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 377.21.)  A cause of action survives a  party’s death unless “otherwise provided by statute.” (Code Civ. Proc., §  377.20.) Actions for personal injuries generally survive the plaintiff’s death.  (Herrero v. Atkinson (1964) 227 Cal.App.2d 69, 76.)    The decedent’s successor in  interest is defined as “the beneficiary of the decedent's estate . . . who  succeeds to a cause of action.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 377.11) The “beneficiary of  the decedent’s estate” is determined “subject to Chapter 1 . . . of Part 1 of  Division 7 of the Probate Code.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 377.30.) This chapter of  the Probate Code regards the passage of a decedent’s property. In relevant  part, it states that “title to a decedent's property passes on the decedent's  death to the person to whom it is devised in the decedent's last will or, in  the absence of such a devise, to the decedent's heirs as prescribed in the laws  governing intestate succession.” (Prob. Code, § 7000.) When the decedent passes  without a surviving spouse, his entire intestate estate passes to his issue.  (Prob. Code, § 6402, subd. (a).)    A.     Procedural  Requirements for Substitution   To continue the pending  action of a deceased party, the successor in interest seeking to be substituted  as plaintiff in place of the decedent must file a certified copy of the  plaintiff’s death certificate, along with a declaration stating all of the  following:    (1) The decedent's name.  (2) The date and place of the decedent's death.  (3) “No proceeding is now pending in California for  administration of the decedent's estate.”  (4) If the decedent's estate was administered, a copy of  the final order showing the distribution of the decedent's cause of action to  the successor in interest.  (5) Either of the following, as appropriate, with facts in  support thereof:  (A) “The affiant or declarant is the decedent's successor  in interest (as defined in Section 377.11 of the California Code of Civil  Procedure) and succeeds to the decedent's interest in the action or  proceeding.”  (B) “The affiant or declarant is authorized to act on  behalf of the decedent's successor in interest (as defined in Section 377.11 of  the California Code of Civil Procedure) with respect to the decedent's interest  in the action or proceeding.”  (6) “No other person has a superior right to commence the  action or proceeding or to be substituted for the decedent in the pending  action or proceeding.”  (7) “The affiant or declarant affirms or declares under  penalty of perjury under the laws of the State of California that the foregoing  is true and correct.”    (Code Civ. Proc. § 377.32.) If correctly motioned and  submitted, the court must allow the action to be continued by the decedent's  personal representative or, if none, by the decedent's successor in interest.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 377.31.)                Here, the Motion has been filed with  Decedent’s certified death certificate and Motta’s affidavit. (Motta Decl. ¶ 1,  Ex. “1.”) Motta’s position as successor in interest is substantiated by the  fact that she is the beneficiary of the estate of Decedent. (Id. ¶ 2.)               Motta further attests that no  proceeding is     now pending in  California for administration of Decedent’s estate, and that no other persons  have a superior right to commence the action or proceeding or to be substituted  for Decedent in the pending action or proceeding. (Motta Decl. ¶¶ 3, 4.)               Furthermore, Motta declares under  penalty of perjury under the laws of the State of California that the foregoing  is true and correct.               Based on the above records, the  Court determines that all requirements under Code of Civil Procedure section  377.32 have been satisfied.               Therefore, the Court GRANTS the  Motion.    CONCLUSION   The  Motion to Appoint Successor in Interest filed by Janice Motta is GRANTED.   Moving  party to give notice.