 Case Number:  23STCV08548    Hearing Date:   April 17, 2024    Dept:  74 Tanya Zamoro-Nerio v. Glenhaven
Healthcare, LLC, et al.
 
Defendants’ Motion to Compel
Arbitration
 
The
court considered the moving papers, opposition, and reply.
BACKGROUND
            This action arises from an
employment dispute.
            On
April 17, 2023, Plaintiff Tanya Zamora-Nerio (Plaintiff) filed a complaint
against Defendants Glenhaven Healthcare, LLC, Glenhaven Healthcare, Marco
Garay, and Carrie Marks (Defendants). 
            The
complaint alleges the following causes of action: (1) discrimination; (2)
hostile work environment; (3) retaliation in violation of FEHA; (4) failure to
provide reasonable accommodation; (5) failure to engage in the interactive
process; (6) failure to prevent discrimination, harassment, and retaliation;
(7) negligent hiring, supervision, and retention; (8) wrongful termination in
violation of public policy; (9) breach of express oral contract; (10) breach of
implied-in-fact contract; (11) retaliation in violation of Labor Code section
1102.5; and (12) intentional infliction of emotional distress.
            On
November 3, 2023, Defendants filed this motion to compel arbitration.
DISCUSSION
Whether the Parties Entered an
Arbitration Agreement.
            In support of their motion to compel
arbitration, Defendants provide a copy of the arbitration agreement, which
Plaintiff signed. (Garay Decl., ¶ 9; Ex. 1.) Plaintiff does not dispute that
she signed the agreement. Thus, an agreement is in place between the parties.
Whether the Arbitration Agreement is
Enforceable
            In her opposition, Plaintiff argues
that the court should not enforce the arbitration agreement because it is
unconscionable. California courts analyze unconscionability as having a
procedural and a substantive element. (Stirlen v. Supercuts, Inc. (1997)
51 Cal.App.4th 1519, 1531–1533.) Although both elements must be present before
a contract or contract provision is rendered unenforceable on grounds of
unconscionability, they are reviewed in tandem such that “the greater the
degree of substantive unconscionability, the less the degree of procedural
unconscionability that is required to annul the contract or clause.” (Carboni v. Arrospide (1991) 2 Cal.App.4th 76, 83.)


            Procedural
Unconscionability
            “Procedural unconscionability”
concerns the manner in which the contract was negotiated and the circumstances
of the parties at that time. (A & M Produce Co. v. FMC Corp. (1982) 135
Cal.App.3d 473, 486.) It focuses on factors of oppression and surprise. (Ibid.)
The oppression component arises from an absence of real negotiation or a
meaningful choice on the part of the weaker party. (Ibid.)
            Plaintiff contends the arbitration agreement
is procedurally unconscionable for several reasons. First, Plaintiff claims the
agreement was presented to her on a take-it-or-leave-it basis. (Martinez v.
Master Protection Corp. (2004) 118 Cal.App.4th 107, 114; Zamora-Nerio
Decl., ¶¶ 5-7.) According to Defendants, though, Plaintiff had ample time to
review and sign the agreement. (Garay Decl., ¶ 6.) By providing her signature,
Plaintiff acknowledged that the agreement was not a condition of her employment.
(Garay Decl., ¶ 9; Ex. 1, p. 4.) Second, Plaintiff
asserts she did not have time to review the agreement herself or with an
attorney. (Zamora-Nerio Decl., ¶¶ 7, 9.) Defendants in turn argue Plaintiff was
not rushed or pressured to sign the agreement. Rather, Defendants reviewed the
agreement with Plaintiff and asked her if she had any questions. When Plaintiff
stated she had no questions, Defendants asked her to further review the
agreement and sign it. (Garay Decl., ¶ 6.) Moreover, by providing her signature,
Plaintiff indicated that she had carefully read the agreement and had had the
opportunity to discuss it with private legal counsel. (Garay Decl., ¶ 9; Ex. 1,
pp. 4-5.)[1] 
            Third,
Plaintiff argues Defendants failed to explain the significance of the
agreement, provide Plaintiff with a copy of the signed agreement, and provide
Plaintiff with the laws referenced in the agreement. (Zamora-Nerio Decl., ¶¶ 3,
8, 9.) Defendants, for their part, contend they explained the agreement to
Plaintiff, who had no questions. (Garay Decl., ¶ 6.) By providing her signature,
Plaintiff acknowledged that she carefully read and understood the agreement,
which explains the arbitration process, covered claims, and the legal consequences
of the agreement. (Garay Decl., ¶ 9; Ex. 1.) However, Defendants do not offer
evidence that they ever gave Plaintiff copies of the agreement or provided the
laws referenced therein. Fourth, Plaintiff argues that language in the
agreement does not satisfy the “clear and unmistakable standard.” But Plaintiff
does not articulate how this standard supports a finding of procedural
unconscionability.
            Given
the foregoing, the court finds a minimal degree of procedural
unconscionability.
            Substantive Unconscionability
            “Substantive
unconscionability” focuses on the terms of the agreement and whether those
terms are so one-sided as to shock the conscience.” (American Software, Inc.
v. Ali 46 Cal.App.4th (1996) 1386, 1391.) “Where […] arbitration provisions
undermine statutory protections, courts have readily found unconscionability.”
(Samaniego v. Empire Today LLC (2012) 205 Cal.App.4th 1138, 1147, citing
Nyulassy v. Lockheed Martin Corp. (2004) 120 Cal.App.4th 1267, 1283.)
            Plaintiff
argues the agreement is substantively unconscionable on multiple grounds.
First, Plaintiff contends the agreement limits her right for judicial review of
any arbitration award. To that end, Plaintiff points to the following language
in the agreement: “The Arbitrator shall have the authority to award all
remedies and relief that would otherwise have been available if the claim had
been brought by way of a civil complaint in court. The arbitration shall be
final and binding upon the parties.” (Garay Decl., ¶ 9;
Ex. 1, p. 3.) However, this language alone does not preclude judicial
review of any arbitration award. Second, Plaintiff argues the agreement is
one-sided because it covers claims Plaintiff is likely to bring but excludes
claims for injunctive relief, which Defendants are more likely to bring. (See Mercuro
.v Superior Court (2002) 96 Cal.App.4th 167, 175-176; Garay Decl., ¶ 9; Ex.
1, p. 2.) Third, Plaintiff contends the agreement is substantively
unconscionable because it prohibits Judicial Arbitration and Mediation Services
(JAMS) from administering the arbitration. (Garay Decl., ¶ 9; Ex. 1, p. 3.) In
support, though, Plaintiff cites a federal case that is not binding on this court.

            Although
the court finds the agreement substantively unconscionable to a moderate
degree, the agreement is procedurally unconscionable to a minimal degree.
Consequently, the arbitration agreement is not unconscionable overall. (Carboni
v. Arrospide, supra, 2 Cal.App.4th at p. 83.) 
Whether Defendants Waived Their
Right to Arbitration
            Plaintiff asserts Defendants waived
their right to arbitration. To that end, Plaintiff first claims Defendants did
not bring their motion to compel arbitration within 30 days of the filing of
the complaint, as required under Code of Civil Procedure section 1281.5,
subdivision (b). Moreover, according to Plaintiff, Defendants did not file
their motion to compel before filing their respective answers, as required by
Code of Civil Procedure section 1281.5, subdivision (c). But Code of Civil
Procedure section 1281.5 applies to actions to enforce the claim of lien, which
is not at issue here.
            Alternatively,
Plaintiff contends Defendants waived their right to arbitration because they
waited seven months to bring this motion. In determining waiver in this
context, courts can consider the following factors: (1) whether the party’s
actions are inconsistent with the right to arbitrate; (2) whether the
litigation machinery has been substantially invoked and the parties were well
into the preparation of a lawsuit before the party notified the opposing party
of an intent to arbitrate; (3) whether a party either requested arbitration
enforcement close to the trial date or delayed for a long period before seeking
a stay; (4) whether a defendant seeking arbitration filed a counterclaim
without asking for a stay of the proceedings; (5) whether important intervening
steps (e.g. taking advantage of judicial discovery procedures not available in
arbitration) had taken place; and (6) whether the delay prejudiced the opposing
party. (St Agnes Medical Center v. PacifiCare of
California (2003) 31 Cal.4th 1187, 1196.) 

            To
begin, the first factor weighs against a finding of waiver. In their respective
answers, Defendants assert their right to move to compel arbitration. (Le
Decl., ¶ 5.) Moreover, in their case management statement, Defendants made
clear that they intend to file a motion to compel arbitration. The court also
notes Defendants have not propounded any discovery on Plaintiff or taken any
depositions. (Le Decl., ¶ 5.) 
            Additionally,
the second and fifth factors weigh against a finding of waiver. So far,
Defendants have only filed their respective answers, case management statement,
and this motion to compel arbitration. Although Plaintiff has propounded
discovery, Defendants have not provided substantive responses. (Le Decl., ¶ 5.)
Plaintiff contends she has drafted motions to compel discovery, but Plaintiff
has not provided evidence of her work. Rather, Plaintiff only points to her
hearing reservations. (Gilanians Decl., ¶ 13; Ex. 7.) 
            Likewise,
the third factor weighs against a finding of waiver. Defendants filed their
motion to compel arbitration over a year before the scheduled trial date.
Moreover, Defendants reserved the earliest hearing date available on the
court’s calendar. (Le Decl., ¶ 6.) The fourth factor also weighs against a
finding of waiver because Defendants have not filed a cross-complaint.
            Last,
the sixth factor weighs against a finding of waiver. To determine prejudice in
this context, courts consider whether the party opposing arbitration has been
substantially deprived of the advantages of arbitration as a speedy and
relatively inexpensive means of dispute resolution. (St Agnes Medical Center
v. PacifiCare of California, supra, 31 Cal.4th at p. 1204.) Here, Plaintiff
has not devoted significant time, money, and resources to conducting discovery
and case preparation. Rather, Plaintiff has only demonstrated that she
propounded discovery on Defendants and reserved hearing dates for motions to
compel. Moreover, the parties can still resolve their dispute in arbitration. 
            In
light of the foregoing, Defendants have not waived their right to compel
arbitration.
CONCLUSION
                The court grants Defendants’ motion
to compel arbitration and stay proceedings.
Defendants
shall give notice of this ruling.


