  Case Number:  23STCV22639    Hearing Date:   December 18, 2024    Dept:  37 HEARING DATE:                 Thursday, December 18, 2024
CASE NUMBER:                   23STCV22639
CASE NAME:                        Tristar Risk
Management v. City of Los Angeles
MOVING PARTY:                 Defendant City of Los Angeles
OPPOSING PARTY:             Plaintiff Tristar Risk Management 
TRIAL DATE:                        Not set. 
PROOF OF SERVICE:           OK

                                                                                                                                                            

PROCEEDING:                      Demurrer with Motion to
Strike Third Amended Complaint 
OPPOSITION:                        6 December 2024
REPLY:                                  12
December 2024
 
TENTATIVE:                         Defendant City’s demurrer to the second and third causes of
action in the TAC is granted with leave to amend. Defendant City’s motion to
strike is granted with leave to amend as to Paragraph 2 of Prayer for Relief.
The motion to strike is granted without leave to amend as to Paragraph 33(b).
The motion to strike is denied as to Paragraphs 28 and 38. Plaintiff is granted 20 days
leave to amend. The court sets the OSC RE: Amended Complaint for January 17,
2025, at 8:30 a.m. Defendant to give notice.

                                                                                                                                                            

 
Background
 
On September 19, 2023,
Tristar Risk Management (“Plaintiff”) filed a Complaint against the City of Los
Angeles (“Defendant” or “City”) and Does 1 to 25. 
 
The operative Third
Amended Complaint (“TAC”) alleges three causes of action: (1) breach of
contract; (2) breach of the implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing;
and (3) violation of Civ. Code § 1671. 
 
Defendant City of LA now
demurs and moves to strike the TAC. Plaintiff opposes the Motions. The matter
is now before the court. 
 
Request for Judicial Notice 
The court may
take judicial notice of “official acts of the legislative, executive, and
judicial departments of the United States and of any state of the United
States,” “[r]ecords of (1) any court of this state or (2) any court of record
of the United States or of any state of the United States,” and “[f]acts and
propositions that are not reasonably subject to dispute and are capable of
immediate and accurate determination by resort to sources of reasonably
indisputable accuracy.” (Evid. Code § 452, subds. (c), (d), and (h).) “Taking
judicial notice of a document is not the same as accepting the truth of its
contents or accepting a particular interpretation of its meaning.” (Joslin v. H.A.S. Ins. Brokerage (1986) 184 Cal.App.3d 369, 374.)
 
Defendant
City requests judicial notice of the following: 
Exhibit A:
Fourth Amended and Restated Agreement, Contract No. C-121812-4, between
Plaintiff TRISTAR Risk Management (“Plaintiff”) and the City, available at
https://cityclerk.lacity.org/lacityclerkconnect/index.cfm?fa=
ccon.viewrecord&contractnum=C-121812. 
Exhibit B:
Legislative History for Civil Code Section 1671, including Law Revision
Commission Comments. 
Exhibit C:
Redline comparing Plaintiff’s Third Amended Complaint (“TAC”) with its Second
Amended Complaint. 
Defendant
City’s request for judicial notice is granted. 
LEGAL STANDARDS
A.        Demurrer 
 
A demurrer is an
objection to a pleading, the grounds for which are apparent from either the
face of the complaint or a matter of which the court may take judicial notice.
(CCP § 430.30(a); see also Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311, 318.)¿“To
survive a demurrer, the complaint need only allege facts sufficient to state a
cause of action; each evidentiary fact that might eventually form part of the
plaintiff’s proof need not be alleged.”¿(C.A. v. William S. Hart Union High
School Dist. (2012) 53 Cal.4th 861, 872.)¿For the purpose of
testing the sufficiency of the cause of action, the demurrer admits the truth
of all material facts properly pleaded.¿ (Aubry v. Tri-City Hospital Dist. (1992)
2 Cal.4th 962, 966-967.)¿A demurrer “does not admit contentions, deductions or
conclusions of fact or law.”¿(Daar v. Yellow Cab Co. (1967) 67
Cal.2d 695, 713.)¿¿ 
 
B.        Motion to Strike 
 
¿Any party, within the time allowed to respond to a pleading
may serve and file a notice of motion to strike the whole or any part thereof.
(CCP, § 435(b)(1); CRC, rule 3.1322(b).) The court may, upon a motion or at any
time in its discretion and upon terms it deems proper: (1) strike out any
irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted in any pleading; or (2) strike
out all or any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity with the
laws of California, a court rule, or an order of the court. (CCP § 436(a)-(b); Stafford
v. Shultz (1954) 42 Cal.2d 767, 782 [“Matter in a pleading which is not
essential to the claim is surplusage; probative facts are surplusage and may be
stricken out or disregarded”].)¿¿¿¿ 
 C.       Leave to Amend 
 
“Where the defect raised by a motion to strike or by demurrer
is reasonably capable of cure, leave to amend is routinely and liberally
granted to give the plaintiff a chance to cure the defect in question.” (CLD
Construction, Inc. v. City of San Ramon (2004) 120 Cal.App.4th 1141, 1146.)
The burden is on the complainant to show the Court that a pleading can be
amended successfully. (Goodman v. Kennedy (1976) 18 Cal.3d 335, 348.)¿¿¿ 
 
Demurrer[1]
 
The Complaint alleges
that beginning November 20, 2012, Plaintiff entered into a contract (Contract
No. C-121812) with the City of LA (the “Contract”) to provide workers’
compensation third-party administration services. (TAC, ¶¶ 6, 30.)  Plaintiff alleges that Defendant breached the
Contract by failing to pay Plaintiff’s invoices when they became due “and
instead unlawfully assessed and deducted penalties amounting to a two-fold
recovery for the City based on the same purported underlying contract
violations for which they had already made payment adjustments.” (Id., ¶
32.) 
 
The TAC alleges that
“Sections 4.5 – 4.8, 4.9, and 4.11 of the Contract provided an express
mechanism for the City to capture its actual damages stemming from staffing
vacancies as well as any damages stemming from TRISTAR’s purported mishandling
of the claims due to staffing shortages and caseload averages, and the City in
fact used those provisions to recoup its purported damages.” (TAC, ¶ 24.) “As
such, the penalties set forth in Section 4.8.3 and 4.8.4 were arbitrary,
duplicative, and excessive and in no way reflected an accurate approximation of
any harm to the City.” (Ibid.) 
 
Defendant City now
demurs to the second and third causes of action. 
 
            A.        Second
Cause of Action – Breach of the Implied Covenant of Good Faith and Fair Dealing
 
“Every contract contains
an implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing providing that no party to
the contract will do anything that would deprive another party of the benefits
of the contract.¿The implied covenant protects the reasonable expectations of
the contracting parties based on their mutual promises.” (Digerati Holdings,
LLC v. Young Money Entertainment, LLC (2011) 194 Cal.App.4th 873, 885.)
“The covenant thus cannot ‘be endowed with an existence independent of its
contractual underpinnings.’ [Citation].” (Guz v. Bechtel Nat. Inc.(2000)
24 Cal.4th 317, 349.) 
 
Defendant City demurs to
the second cause of action on the basis that it is derivative of the breach of
contract claim because Plaintiff’s claims derive from the same conduct and
seeks the same remedies as the breach of contract claim. “If the allegations do
not go beyond the statement of a mere contract breach and, relying on the same
alleged acts, simply seek the same damages or other relief already claimed in a
companion contract cause of action, they may be disregarded as superfluous as
no additional claim is actually stated.” (Careau & Co. v. Security
Pacific Business Credit, Inc. (1990) 222 Cal.App.3d 1371, 1395.) The TAC
alleges that Defendant City impaired Plaintiff’s right to receive the benefits
and reasonable expectations under the contract by imposing “duplicative and
unreasonable penalties against TRISTAR” and manufacturing “bases to seek
unreasonable penalties and deductions against TRISTAR.” (TAC, ¶ 40.) 
 
The TAC states that
“Sections 4.5 – 4.8, 4.9, and 4.11 of the Contract” expressly allowed Defendant
City to charge penalties. (TAC, ¶ 24.) Plaintiff’s opposition further asserts
that “Defendant concurrently issued simultaneous and duplicative penalties under
Section 4.9 of the Contract related to staffing levels and other vacancies . .
. [and] in addition to the penalties assessed pursuant to Sections 4.8.3 and
4.8.4 discussed above, Defendant reduced payments due to TRISTAR by $444,573.85
based on Section 4.9 of the Contract.” (Opp. at p. 5:1-5.) 
 
Accordingly, Defendant
City takes the position that the second cause of action fails because the
Contract expressly allowed the City to impose penalties and if the penalties
were unreasonably imposed, Plaintiff’s relief lies in a breach of contract
claim, not a claim for breach of the implied covenant of good faith and fair
dealing. “We are aware of no reported case in which a court has held the
covenant of good faith may be read to prohibit a party from doing that which is
expressly permitted by an agreement.” (Carma Developers (Cal.), Inc. v.
Marathon Development California, Inc. (1992) 2 Cal.4th 342, 374.) “‘As to
acts and conduct authorized by the express provisions of the contract, no
covenant of good faith and fair dealing can be implied which forbids such acts
and conduct.’” (Id. citing VTR, Incorporated v. Goodyear Tire &
Rubber Company (S.D.N.Y.1969) 303 F.Supp. 773, 777–778.)
 
Therefore, if Defendant
City’s motives for charging penalties were improper or without justification,
this alone does not support a claim for breach of the implied covenant because
such conduct is an express breach of a contractual provision.  “‘[A] tortious breach of
contract … may be found when (1) the breach is accompanied by a traditional
common law tort, such as fraud or conversion; (2) the means used to breach the
contract are tortious, involving deceit or undue coercion; or (3) one party
intentionally breaches the contract intending or knowing that such a breach
will cause severe, unmitigable harm in the form of mental anguish, personal
hardship, or substantial consequential damages.’ [Citation.]” (Robinson
Helicopter Co., Inc. v. Dana Corp. (2004) 34 Cal.4th 979, 990.)
 
Here, no common law tort
is alleged nor does the TAC allege conduct amounting to deceit or undue
coercion by Defendant City engaged in support of a claim for breach of the
implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing. Nor does Plaintiff allege
facts to support an allegation that Defendant City intentionally breached the
contract and caused Plaintiff to suffer ever harm, such a substantial
consequential damage. (See Robison, supra, 34 Cal.4th 979.)
“Focusing on intentional conduct gives substance to the proposition that a
breach of contract is tortious only when some independent duty arising from
tort law is violated.” (Erlich v. Menezes (1999) 21 Cal.4th 543, 554.) 
 
The fact that Defendant
City improperly assessed Plaintiff penalties pursuant to a Contract does not
give rise to a breach of an independent duty. Therefore, the court agrees that
second cause of action is derivative of the first cause of action for breach of
contract and cannot be pled as an alternative to the first cause of action. 
 
The demurrer to the
second cause of action is sustained with leave to amend. 
 
            B.        Third
Cause of Action -  Violation of Civ. Code
§ 1671
 
Civ. Code § 671 states: 
 
(a) This section does not apply in any case where another statute
expressly applicable to the contract prescribes the rules or standard for
determining the validity of a provision in the contract liquidating the damages
for the breach of the contract.
 
(b) Except as provided in subdivision (c), a provision in a
contract liquidating the damages for the breach of the contract is valid unless
the party seeking to invalidate the provision establishes that the provision
was unreasonable under the circumstances existing at the time the contract was
made.
 
(c) The validity of a liquidated damages provision shall be
determined under subdivision (d) and not under subdivision (b) where the
liquidated damages are sought to be recovered from either:
 
(1) A party to a contract for the retail purchase, or rental,
by such party of personal property or services, primarily for the party's
personal, family, or household purposes; or
 
(2) A party to a lease of real property for use as a dwelling
by the party or those dependent upon the party for support.
 
(d) In the cases described in subdivision (c), a provision in
a contract liquidating damages for the breach of the contract is void except
that the parties to such a contract may agree therein upon an amount which
shall be presumed to be the amount of damage sustained by a breach thereof,
when, from the nature of the case, it would be impracticable or extremely
difficult to fix the actual damage. 
 
Defendant City asserts
that the third cause of action fails because it is duplicative of the breach of
contract claim as “Plaintiff has already invoked section 1671(b) in its breach
of contract claim to allege that the City breached the Contract by making
deductions pursuant to contractual provisions that are unenforceable.” (Mot.,
at p. 11:18-10.) 
 
Defendants refused to pay the balance of TRISTAR’s invoices
when they became due and instead unlawfully assessed and deducted penalties
amounting to a two-fold recovery for the City based on the same purported
underlying contract violations for which they had already made payment
adjustments. Such assessments and deductions also operated as unreasonable
penalties in violation of California Civil Code section 1671(b). 
 
(TAC, ¶ 32.) 
 
A demurrer to a cause of
action is properly sustained when the “alleged causes and thus adds nothing to
the complaint by way of fact or theory of recovery.” (Rodrigues v. Campbell
Industries (1978) 87 Cal.App.3d 494, 501.) The TAC alleges that “Defendants
have violated, and continue to violate, California Civil Code section 1671 by
assessing unreasonable and duplicative staffing penalties on TRISTAR under
Section 4.9 of the Contract and fee reductions and adjustments pursuant to
Sections 4.8.3 and 4.8.4 related to TRISTAR exceeding the caseload averages.”
(TAC, ¶ 46.) These allegations are duplicative of the breach of contract claim.

 
As to the allegation,
the penalties amounted to unreasonable liquidated damages, the allegations
would make the provision void, but not the contract. “[W]e do note that Civil
Code section 1671 addresses the validity of a liquidated damages provision,
rather than the validity of a contract containing such a provision.” (Greentree
Financial Group, Inc. v. Execute Sports, Inc. (2008) 163 Cal.App.4th 495,
502 [italics added].) 
 
Defendant City further
maintains that section 1671(b) does not provide for a private cause of action.
“A private party can sue for violation of a statute only where the statute in
question allows it.” (Mayron v. Google LLC (2020) 54 Cal.App.5th 566,
571.) Defendant City asserts section 1671(b) does not provide for a private
right of action. “Sections 1670.5 and 1671 are indeed similar, to the extent
that their enactment did not create new law but simply codified the existing
common law.” (Beasley v. Wells Fargo Bank (1991) 235 Cal.App.3d 1383,
1398.) Because section 1671 is rooted in common law “a party could sue in
equity for affirmative relief from a contractual predetermination of damages
for breach, and after 1697 relief from excessive fees could be sought at law in
a defensive posture.” (Id., at p. 1399.) “If monetary relief could be
sought under the common law of liquidated damages, and section 1671,
subdivision (d), represents a codification of the theoretical underpinnings of
such relief, then the codification necessarily encompasses the notion of
seeking such relief.” (Id., at p. 1399.) 


The court fails to see
how section 1671(b), as opposed to section 1671(d), provides Plaintiff with a
private right of action.
 
Moreover, the TAC
alleges several bases as to why the penalties and adjustments operated as an
unreasonable liquidated damages provision. (TAC, ¶ 47.) However, none of the
bases asserted show  the penalty
provisions were unreasonable at the time the parties entered into the Contract.
(Ibid.) “Based on section 1671(b)’s presumption that liquidated damage
provisions in nonconsumer contracts are valid, the party challenging the
provision bears the burden to show the provision was unreasonable under the
circumstances existing when the parties entered into the contract.” (Vitatech
Internat., Inc. v. Sporn (2017) 16 Cal.App.5th 796, 806.) 
 
In the cases where subdivision (b) applies, the burden of
proof on the issue of reasonableness is on the party seeking to invalidate the
liquidated damages provision. The subdivision limits the circumstances that may
be taken into account in the determination of reasonableness to those in
existence “at the time the contract was made.” The validity of the liquidated
damages provision depends upon its reasonableness at the time the contract was
made and not as it appears in retrospect. Accordingly, the amount of damages
actually suffered has no bearing on the validity of the liquidated damages
provision.


(Civ. Code, § 1671
Editors’ Notes.) 
 
Plaintiff fails to show
how at the time the Parties entered the Contract, it was unreasonable for the
Defendant City to include an assessment of penalties and adjustments based on
staffing levels, caseload, and nature and status of claims. (TAC, ¶ 47.) 
 
Consequently, the
demurrer to the third cause of action is sustained with leave to amend. 
 
Motion to Strike
 
Defendant City moves to
strike the following provisions from the TAC: 
 
1)    
Portions of Paragraph 28: “in excess of $907,190.02.”
2)    
Entirety of Paragraph 33(b): “Section 4.9 of the Contract
provides that fee reductions may be assessed each month TRISTAR’s average
caseload exceeds 150. Such fee reductions, when coupled with the penalties set
forth in Sections 4.8.3 and 4.8.4 of the Contract as discussed above, amount to
a two-fold recovery for Defendants based on the same purported underlying
contract violation and amount to unlawful liquidated damages depriving TRISTAR
of the full consideration and payment it was owed in breach of the Contract.”
3)    
Portions of Paragraph 33(c): “However, even then, the City
unreasonably imposed penalties where TRISTAR were [sic] in accordance with the
provisions of the Contract.”
4)    
Entirety of Paragraph 38: “As a result of the breaches
perpetuated by Defendants, including the failure to pay TRISTAR for the
services rendered and the assessment of unlawful penalties and adjustments,
TRISTAR has been damaged in an amount in excess of $907,190.02.”
5)    
Entirety of Paragraph 45: “Pursuant to California Civil Code
section 1671(b), a liquidated damages provision that bears no reasonable
relationship to the range of actual damages that the parties could have
anticipated would flow from the breach is unenforceable.” 
6)    
Portions of Paragraph 46: “unreasonable and duplicative
staffing penalties on TRISTAR under Section 4.9 of the Contract and.”
7)    
Entirety of Paragraph 48: “Because the liquidated damages
provisions set forth in Sections 4.8.3, 4.8.4, and 4.9 of the Contract are not
directly related to the actual damages purportedly suffered by Defendants, if
any, and the escalating nature of the liquidated damages provision is
disproportionate to any actual harm, these sections of the Contract are not
enforceable penalties and TRISTAR is entitled to payment of the unlawful
amounts improperly deducted by Defendants for the services rendered by TRISTAR
in an amount to be proven at trial.”
8)    
Paragraph 2 of Prayer for Relief: “For special damages,
including but not limited to, unlawful liquidated damages, excessive
deductions, unlawful penalties and deductions in an amount to be proven at
trial according to proof equal to or in excess of $907,190.02.” 
 
As the demurrer to the
second and third causes of action have been sustained with leave to amend,
Paragraphs 33(c), 45, 46, 48, and Paragraph 2 of Prayer for Relief are stricken
with leave to amend. 
 
Plaintiff does not
oppose the striking of Paragraph 33(b) because the wrong contract provision is
cited. (Opp., at p. 7:5-6.) The request to strike Paragraph 33(b) is granted
without leave to amend. 
 
The motion to strike
Paragraphs 28 and 38 is denied because the allegations go towards Plaintiff’s
assessment of damages as to the breach of contract of the case. “In passing on
the correctness of a ruling on a motion to strike, judges read allegations of a
pleading subject to a motion to strike as a whole, all parts in their context,
and assume their truth.” (Clauson v. Superior Court (1998) 67
Cal.App.4th 1253, 1255.) As discovery in this case is ongoing, Plaintiff not
required to prove their damages at this stage of the pleadings. 
 
Conclusion
 
Defendant City’s demurrer to the second and third causes of
action in the TAC is granted with 
leave to amend. Defendant City’s motion to strike is granted
with leave to amend as to Paragraph 
2 of Prayer for Relief. The motion to strike is granted
without leave to amend as to Paragraph 
33(b). The motion to strike is denied as to Paragraphs 28 and
38. Plaintiff is
granted 20 days 
leave to amend. The court sets the OSC RE: Amended Complaint
for January 17, 2025, at 8:30 
a.m. Defendant to give notice.


