 Case Number:  23STCV08462    Hearing Date:   September 18, 2023    Dept:  54 


Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles




 
Chad Darling, 


 
 
 
Plaintiff,


 
Case 
No.:
 


 
23STCV08462




 
vs.


 


 
Tentative Ruling 
 




 
Arc Point Law, et al.,


 
 
 
Defendants.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing Date: September 18, 2023
Department 54, Judge Maurice A. Leiter
Demurrer to Complaint and Motion to
Strike
Moving Party: Defendants Arc Point Law and Mark
Piesner
Responding Party: Plaintiff Chad Darling
 
T/R:     DEFENDANTS’
DEMURRER IS OVERRULED.
DEFENDANTS’ MOTION TO STRIKE IS GRANTED IN PART AND DENIED IN PART.
PLAINTIFF TO FILE AND SER A FIRST
AMENDED COMPLAINT WITHIN 30 DAYS OF NOTICE OF RULING. DEFENDANTS TO FILE AND
SERVE A RESPONSE WITHIN 30 DAYS THEREAFTER.
 
DEFENDANTS TO NOTICE.  
 
If the parties wish to submit on the tentative, please
email the courtroom at SMCdept54@lacourt.org with
notice to opposing counsel (or self-represented party) before 8:00 am on the
day of the hearing. 
 
The Court considers the moving papers,
opposition, and reply.
 
BACKGROUND
 
On April 17, 2023, Plaintiff Chad
Darling filed a complaint against Defendants Arc Point Law and Mark Piesner,
asserting causes of action for (1) legal malpractice; (2) breach of fiduciary
duty; and (3) breach of contract. Plaintiff alleges Defendants failed to use
reasonable care in representing Plaintiff in divorce proceedings.
 
ANALYSIS
 
A. Demurrer to Complaint
 
A demurrer to a complaint may be taken
to the whole complaint or to any of the causes of action in it.  (CCP § 430.50(a).)  A demurrer challenges only the legal
sufficiency of the complaint, not the truth of its factual allegations or the
plaintiff's ability to prove those allegations. 
(Picton v. Anderson Union High Sch. Dist. (1996) 50 Cal.
App. 4th 726, 732.)  The court must treat
as true the complaint's material factual allegations, but not contentions,
deductions or conclusions of fact or law. 
(Id. at 732-33.)  The
complaint is to be construed liberally to determine whether a cause of action
has been stated.  (Id. at 733.)
 
Defendant demurs to the third cause of
action for breach of contract on the ground that Plaintiff failed to attach a
copy of the contract or plead its terms. “The standard elements of a claim for
breach of contract are: ‘(1) the contract, (2) plaintiff’s performance or
excuse for nonperformance, (3) defendant’s breach, and (4) damage to plaintiff
therefrom.’” (Wall Street Network, Ltd. v. New York Times Co. (2008) 164
Cal.App.4th 1171, 1178.)
 
Plaintiff alleges he and Defendants
entered into a representation agreement for legal services. Plaintiff alleges
Defendant failed to perform these services competently and Plaintiff was harmed
as a result. This is sufficient to allege breach of contract.
 
Defendant’s demurrer is OVERRULED.
 
 
B. Motion to Strike
“Any party, within the time allowed to
response to a pleading, may serve and file a notice of motion to strike the
whole or any part" of that pleading. (CCP § 435(b)(1).) “The Court may,
upon a motion made pursuant to Section 435, or at any time in its discretion,
and upon terms it deems proper: (a) Strike out any irrelevant, false or
improper matter asserted in any pleading; (b) Strike out all or any part of any
pleading not drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of this state, a court
rule, or an order of the Court." (CCP § 436.) 
Defendants move to strike allegations that
Defendants failed to file a CCP § 473(b) motion in the underlying action,
allegations regarding violations of the professional rules, and the prayer for
prejudgment interest. Defendants assert they did bring a 473(b) motion in the
underlying action, the allegations regarding violations of the professional
rules contradict other allegations, and Plaintiff cannot recover prejudgment
interest because there is no sum certain of damages.
Plaintiff does not oppose striking the 473(b)
motion allegations. Plaintiff asserts Defendants failed to meet and confer
regarding the allegations of violations of the professional rules and argues
that there is a possibility for prejudgment interest in this case.
As Plaintiff does not oppose striking the
473(b) motion allegations, the motion is GRANTED as to those allegations. The
motion is also GRANTED as to the allegations regarding violations of the
professional rules as they are contradictory to other allegations. The motion
is DENIED as to prejudgment interest, as a basis for prejudgment interest may
be apparent later in the action.


 