 Case Number:  22STCV36561    Hearing Date:   September 18, 2023    Dept:  54 


Superior Court
  of California
County of Los
  Angeles




 
Saul Larner, 


 
 
 
Plaintiff,


 
Case No.:
 


 
22STCV36561




 
vs.


 


 
Tentative Ruling
 




 
Christopher
  Sorley, et al. 


 
 
 
Defendants.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing Date: September 18, 2023
Department 54, Judge Maurice A. Leiter
(2) Motions for Sanctions
Moving Party: Defendants Christopher Sorley and
Michele Dobson
Responding Party: Plaintiff Saul Larner
 
T/R:     DEFENDANTS’ MOTIONS ARE GRANTED.
SANCTIONS ARE PAYABLE WITHIN 30 DAYS.
 
DEFENDANTS TO
NOTICE.
 
If the parties wish to submit on the
tentative, please email the courtroom at SMCdept54@lacourt.org with
notice to opposing counsel (or self-represented party) before 8:00 am on the
day of the hearing.
The Court considers the moving papers,
opposition, and reply.
 
BACKGROUND
 
On November 21, 2022, Plaintiff Saul
Larner filed a complaint against Defendants Christopher Sorley and Michele A.
Dobson, asserting a cause of action for malicious prosecution and SLAPP-back.
Plaintiff alleges that Defendants, who were counsel for the defendants in
related case 22STCV12097, maliciously brought anti-SLAPP motions in the related
case. The Court denied the motions on October 25, 2022.
 
On July 7, 2023, the Court sustained
Defendant Sorley’s demurrer to the complaint without leave to amend.
 
ANALYSIS
 
CCP § 128.7(b) provides that by
signing and filing a pleading, an attorney “is certifying that to the best of
the person’s knowledge, information, and belief, formed after an inquiry
reasonable under the circumstances, all of the following conditions are met:
(1) [i]t is not being presented primarily for an improper purpose, such as to
harass or to cause unnecessary delay or needless increase in the cost of
litigation[;] (2) [t]he claims, defenses, and other legal contentions therein
are warranted by existing law or by a nonfrivolous argument for the
extension, modification, or reversal of existing law or the establishment of
new law[;] (3) [t]he allegations and other factual contentions have evidentiary
support or, if specifically so identified, are likely to have evidentiary
support after a reasonable opportunity for further investigation or
discovery[;] (4) [t]he denials of factual contentions are warranted on the
evidence or, if specifically so identified, are reasonably based on a lack of information
or belief.” CCP § 128.7 authorizes the court to impose appropriate
sanctions upon attorneys or parties that have violated subsection (b). (CCP §
128.7(c).) 
 
CCP § 128.5 provides that “[a] trial
court may order a party, the party’s attorney, or both, to pay the reasonable
expenses, including attorney’s fees, incurred by another party as a result of
actions or tactics, made in bad faith, that are frivolous or solely intended to
cause unnecessary delay.”  (CCP § 128.5(a).)  “‘Actions or tactics’
include, but are not limited to, the making or opposing of motions or the
filing and service of a complaint, cross-complaint, answer, or other responsive
pleading.”  (CCP § 128.5(b)(1).)  “‘Frivolous’ means totally and
completely without merit or for the sole purpose of harassing an opposing
party.”  (CCP § 128.5(b)(2).) 
 
A. Defendant Sorley’s Motion for
Sanctions
 
Defendant Sorley moves for monetary[1]
sanctions against Plaintiff on the ground that Plaintiff brought and maintained
this action in bad faith. Defendant represents that Plaintiff was repeatedly
told by counsel that there was no legal basis for Plaintiff’s claims, but
Plaintiff refused to withdraw the suit. Defendant also asserts Plaintiff has
engaged in various bad faith litigation tactics such as inappropriate
communications, threats of additional litigation, and frivolous State Bar
complaints. Defendant requests $7,600.00 in
attorney’s fees.
 
The Court finds monetary sanctions appropriate. As discussed in the
Court’s ruling on Sorley’s demurrer, this action is not legally tenable.
Plaintiff was informed of this several times by Defendants with citations to
clear statutory law. Plaintiff then refused to dismiss the action and instead
engaged in threats and filed bar complaints.
 
Defendant Sorley’s motion is GRANTED.
 
B. Defendant Dobson’s Motion for Sanctions 
 
Defendant Dobson moves for terminating and monetary sanctions against Plaintiff
on the ground that Plaintiff
brought and maintained this action in bad faith. As stated, there is no legal
basis for this action. The plain language of the SLAPP-back statutory
provisions state that SLAPP-back actions may be filed by a prevailing Defendant
against the Plaintiff who filed the underlying SLAPP suit. They do not allow
SLAPP-back actions against Defendants who unsuccessfully bring an anti-SLAPP.
Plaintiff has been informed of this and has still refused to dismiss the
action. Terminating and monetary sanctions are warranted here. Defendant
requests $1,280.00 in attorney’s fees.
 
Defendant Dobson’s motion is GRANTED.
 


