 Case Number:  20STCV06917    Hearing Date:   November 8, 2023    Dept:  I The demurrer is OVERRULED. 
Plaintiff files a premises liability action against
defendant, who cross-complained.  In the
cross-complaint, cross-complainant states that cross-defendant stopped paying
rent in December 2018 even though there was a five year lease starting on April
6, 2018.  Cross-complainant (in the first
amended cross-complaint) seeks damages accruing after a prior UD judgment.  Cross-complainant asserts that it tried to
re-let the property, but was unable to do so until April 1, 2021, and then only
at a discounted rent. 
In an earlier UD action, cross-complainant sued
cross-defendant for unlawful detainer and prevailed.  It obtained a judgment in its favor for back
rent and holdover rent.  Cross-defendant
(the tenant) asserts through this demurrer that the present action is barred by
res judicata stemming from the UD action.
As a brief procedural matter, cross-complainant argues that
the demurrer is moot because it is directed at the original cross-complaint and
not the amended cross-complaint. 
Cross-defendant states that asserts in reply that it had never been
served with the amended cross-complaint, although a conformed copy has been on
the docket since September 5, 2023. 
Because the demurrer attacks the wrong pleading, it must be OVERRULED.  However, the court notes that the res
judicata argument could be brought again. 
To avoid unnecessary motion practice, the court addresses the merits.
Res judicata has two forms, only one of which is at issue
here.  One (and the relevant one) is
claim preclusion and the other is issue preclusion.  (Issue preclusion does not apply because
cross-complainant was successful in the prior case; no issue was adjudicated
against it.)  Claim preclusion is a
doctrine established to avoid parties litigating piece-meal or improperly
splitting claims.  Thus, generally a
party must bring all claims stemming from a single primary right at one
time.  At the conclusion of that
litigation, any other claims will either be merged into the judgment (because
the judgment suffices to satisfy the claim) or barred.  The elements of claim preclusion are that the
prior decision must be final and on the merits, the present action was on the
same cause of action (or primary right) as the prior case, and the parties were
the same.  (Zevnik v. Superior Court
(2008) 159 Cal.App.4th 76.)  The problem
with cross-defendant’s argument is the unusual nature of a UD case.  A UD case is limited.  The plaintiff can sue for past due rent and
holdover damages, but may not bring an action for future losses.  The defendant in a UD case is also limited.  Many defenses that would normally be
available are not available in a UD case. 
In return for the limited scope of the case, the case is on a very fast
track to trial.  As a result of the
limits on what can and cannot be alleged in a UD case, the res judicata effect
of a UD judgment is quite limited.  It
will operate to bar a claim for the same injury, but not for things that the UD
statute does not allow.  Therefore, for
example, if cross-complainant was seeking holdover rent, it would be barred by
res judicata.  However, damages accruing
from after the UD judgment was rendered could not have been brought.  Because cross-complainant could not (in the
UD case) have brought an action for the damages now sought, res judicata has no
application.  Accordingly, even were the
demurrer to the first amended cross-complaint, it would be (and is)
OVERRULED.  (Further, even were the res
judicata argument forceful, it would not dispose of an entire cause of
action.  A demurrer does not lie as to a
part of a cause of action.)
Cross-defendant also argues that the causes of action are
barred by the statute of limitations.  He
claims that the statute is a four year statute, and this court does not
disagree that the correct statute has been identified.  While cross-defendant does set forth the
correct statute, cross-defendant does not identify when the cause of action
arose.  The complaint is silent on that
point.  But even assuming that 2018 is a
relevant time (because that is when the breach occurred), it is not
enough.  A cross-complaint receives the
benefit of the equitable tolling/relation back doctrine.  Under that doctrine, the cause of action
relates back to the date the complaint was filed, not the date of the
cross-complaint.  (ZF Micro Devices,
Inc. v. TAT Capital Partners, Ltd. (2016) 5 Cal.App.5th 69.)  Here, the complaint was filed on February 20,
2020.  As such, given that doctrine, the
cause of action in the cross-complaint is timely.  Cross-defendant suggests that ZF Micro
Devices is wrongly decided and that the rule ought to apply only to
compulsory cross-complaints, that is, a cross-complaint that had to be brought
in the same case as the complaint or be deemed waived (which depends on whether
it arises out of the same transaction or occurrence as the causes of action in
the complaint).  Cross-defendant also
suggests that the doctrine only applies during the time that the
cross-complaint could be filed of right and that the statute starts to run
again once a defendant has answered the complaint.  But the court is not aware of any authority
so holding.  Just as the statute of
limitations is tolled when a complaint is filed such that an amended complaint
“relates back” to the original filing date, so too a late-filed cross-complaint
will relate back.  The court does not
read Align Technology, Inc. v. Tran (2009) 179 Cal.App.4th 949 to hold
to the contrary.  That case involved a
cross-complaint that was allegedly barred due to a prior action.
Accordingly, even reaching the merits, the demurrer is
OVERRULED.
Cross-defendant has 30 days to answer.