  Case Number:  23TRCV04020    Hearing Date:   December 2, 2024    Dept:  P Demurrer  to Plaintiff’s First Amended Complaint and Motion to Strike   Moving  Parties: Defendants  UHG LAX PROP, LLC and TWENTY4SEVEN HOTELS   CORPORATION     Responding Party: Plaintiff Martin Smith   RULING   The court  considered the moving papers, opposition, and reply. Defendant’s demurrer is SUSTAINED  as to the causes of action for Breach of Contract and IIED, and the motion to  strike is GRANTED as to attorney’s fees and DENIED as to punitive damages.PROCEDURAL BACKGROUND   On December 4, 2023, Plaintiff Martin Smith (“Smith”) filed a complaint  against Defendant UHG LAX PROP, LLC (“UHG”) alleging causes of action for (1)  Negligence – Premises Liability/Failure to Warn/Negligence Per Se; (2)  Nuisance; (3) Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress (“IIED”); (4) Breach  of Contract; and (5) Fraudulent Concealment.   On January 5, 2024, Defendant filed a demurrer to the complaint, which  was sustained in part, and a motion to strike, which was granted.   On April 30, 2024, Plaintiff filed an amendment to the complaint, naming  Doe 1 as Twenty4Seven Hotels Corporation (“Twenty4Seven”).   On September 10, 2024, Plaintiff filed a first amended complaint (“FAC”)  alleging causes of action for (1) Negligence – Premises Liability/Failure to  Warn/Negligence Per Se; (2) IIED; (3) Breach of Contract; and (4) Fraudulent  Concealment. UHG and Twenty4Seven (“Defendants”) filed the instant motions on October  14, 2024. Plaintiff filed an opposition on November 15, 2024. Defendants filed  a reply on November 21, 2024.   FACTUAL BACKGROUND   Plaintiff  filed this FAC against Defendants for their failure to properly maintain  Plaintiff’s rented hotel room, leading to a bed bug infestation. (FAC, ¶ 2.)   On January  8, 2023, Plaintiff entered into a hotel rental agreement with Defendants to  stay as a guest at the Subject Property. (FAC, ¶ 27.) Plaintiff noticed the bed  bug infestation while staying as a guest in Room 234 and notified management,  but no action was taken. (FAC, ¶ 28.)   Plaintiff  alleges that Defendants had prior notice of the bed bug infestation as many  guests have left negative reviews about the bed bugs and various review  platforms. (FAC, ¶ 72.) Further, Defendants were aware of the ongoing  infestation because Ecolab Pest Control Records show that they provided  services at the Subject Property, including Room 234, at various times from  2021-2023. (FAC, ¶ 73.)              LEGAL STANDARD             A party may demur to a complaint on the grounds that it “does not state  facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10,  subd. (e).) A party may also demur to a complaint on the grounds that the  complaint is uncertain. (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subd. (f).) A demurrer  tests whether the complaint states a cause of action. (Hahn v. Mirda (2007)  147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747.) A special demurrer for uncertainty under Code of  Civil Procedure section 430.10, subdivision (f), is disfavored and will only be  sustained where the pleading is so bad that defendant or plaintiff cannot  reasonably respond—i.e., cannot reasonably determine what issues must be  admitted or denied, or what counts or claims are directed against him or her. (Khoury  v. Maly’s of Calif., Inc. (1993) 14 Cal.App.4th 612, 616.)   When considering demurrers, courts accept all well pleaded facts as true.  (Fox v. JAMDAT Mobile, Inc. (2010) 185 Cal.App.4th 1068, 1078.) “A  demurrer tests the pleadings alone and not the evidence or other extrinsic  matters. Therefore, it lies only where the defects appear on the face of the  pleading or are judicially noticed.” (SKF Farms v. Superior Court (1984)  153 Cal.App.3d 902, 905.) “The only issue involved in a demurrer hearing is  whether the complaint, as it stands, unconnected with extraneous matters,  states a cause of action.” (Hahn, supra, 147 Cal.App.4th at p.  747.) On demurrer, a court does “not accept contentions, deductions or  conclusions of fact or law.” (Simonyan v. Nationwide Insurance Company of  America (2022) 78 Cal.App.5th 889, 895.)    Although courts construe pleadings liberally, sufficient facts must be  alleged to support the allegations pled to survive a demurrer. (Rakestraw v.  California Physicians' Serv. (2000) 81 Cal.App.4th 39, 43.) Where a  demurrer is sustained, leave to amend must be allowed where there is a  reasonable possibility of successful amendment. (Goodman v. Kennedy  (1976) 18 Cal.3d 335, 349.) The burden is on the party who filed the pleading  subject to demurrer to show the court that a pleading can be amended successfully.  (Ibid.)   DISCUSSION               Moving Party’s Argument   Defendants argue that Plaintiff has failed to provide sufficient factual  allegations to support each cause of action, and Plaintiff has not made any  substantive changes between the FAC and the original complaint. Defendant  further demurs on the basis that the complaint is fatally uncertain.   Opposing Party’s Argument   Plaintiff argues that he has adequately alleged each cause of action.   Reply Argument   Defendants contend that Plaintiff has still failed to allege sufficient  facts. Further, Plaintiff fails to plead fraud with particularity.   Merits of the Motion   A.  Meet and Confer   Before filing a demurrer, the demurring party is required to meet and  confer “in person, by telephone, or by video conference with the party who  filed the pleading that is subject to the demurrer for the purposes of determining  whether an agreement can be reached through a filing of an amended pleading  that would resolve the objections to be raised in the demurrer.” (Code Civ.  Proc., § 430.41, subd. (a).) A motion to strike is subject to a similar meet  and confer requirement.   Defense counsel declares that he sent several requests to meet and  confer, but Plaintiff’s counsel did not respond. The court finds that the  parties have not satisfied the meet and confer requirements. However, the court  will still consider the merits of the motion.   B.  Second Cause of Action for IIED   “The elements of a prima facie case for the tort of intentional  infliction of emotional distress are: (1) extreme and outrageous conduct by the  defendant with the intention of causing, or reckless disregard of the  probability of causing, emotional distress; (2) the plaintiff’s suffering  severe or extreme emotional distress; and (3) actual and proximate causation of  the emotional distress by the defendant’s outrageous conduct. Conduct to be  outrageous must be so extreme as to exceed all bounds of that usually tolerated  in a civilized community.” (Wilson v. Hynek (2012) 207 Cal.App.4th 999,  1009, citation and ellipses omitted.)   In addition, “it is not enough that the conduct be intentional and  outrageous. It must be conduct directed at the plaintiff or occur in the  presence of a plaintiff of whom the defendant is aware.” (Potter v.  Firestone Tire & Rubber Co. (1993) 6 Cal.4th 965, 1002, citing Christensen  v. Superior Court (1991) 54 Cal.3d 868, 903.)   Plaintiff does not allege that any of Defendants’ conduct was directed at  Plaintiff nor done in his presence. Plaintiff also cites to Stoiber v.  Honeychuck (1980) 101 Cal.App.3d 903 in support, but the court finds that  this case is distinguishable. In Stoiber, there was a landlord-tenant  relationship between the parties. (Id. at p. 911.) The tenants notified  the landlord many times over the years of their tenancy that the property was  in poor condition, but the landlord did not attempt to make repairs. (Id.  at p. 911-912.) The Stoiber court found that the repeated failure to  repair could sustain an IIED cause of action. (Id. at p. 922.)   At most, Plaintiff alleges that Defendants were negligent in the  maintenance of the Subject Property, but Plaintiff does not provide factual  allegations that Defendants directed their conduct at Plaintiff in particular. In  fact, Plaintiff alleges that Ecolab Pest Control visited the Subject Property  multiple times, which would indicate that Defendants took steps to eradicate or  prevent an infestation.   Accordingly, Defendants’ demurrer is SUSTAINED without leave to amend.   C.  Third Cause of Action for  Breach of Contract   To state a cause of action for breach of contract, a plaintiff must be  able to establish “(1) the existence of the contract, (2) plaintiff’s  performance or excuse for nonperformance, (3) defendant’s breach, and (4) the  resulting damages to the plaintiff.” (Oasis West Realty, LLC v. Goldman (2011)  51 Cal.4th 811, 821.)    If a breach of contract claim “is based on alleged breach of a written  contract, the terms must be set out verbatim in the body of the complaint or a  copy of the written agreement must be attached and incorporated by reference.”  (Harris v. Rudin, Richman & Appel (1999) 74 Cal.App.4th 299, 307.)  In some circumstances, a plaintiff may also “plead the legal effect of the  contract rather than its precise language.” (Construction Protective  Services, Inc. v. TIG Specialty Ins. Co. (2002) 29 Cal.4th 189, 198-199.)   Here, Plaintiff alleges the parties “entered into a valid hotel rental  agreement, setting forth terms surrounding Plaintiff’s stay at the Premises.”  (FAC, ¶ 90.) Plaintiff does not actually allege any terms that the parties  agreed to. He merely attaches an invoice and alleges that Defendants breached several  implied terms by failing to keep the Premises free of bed bugs.   As pleaded, these allegations are insufficient to state a cause of action  for breach of contract. Further, Plaintiff has made no substantive changes to  the allegations supporting this cause of action between the original complaint  and the FAC.   Accordingly, Defendants’ demurrer is SUSTAINED without leave to amend.   D.  Fourth Cause of Action for  Fraudulent Concealment   “The required elements for fraudulent concealment are (1) concealment or  suppression of a material fact; (2) by a defendant with a duty to disclose the  fact to the plaintiff; (3) the defendant intended to defraud the plaintiff by  intentionally concealing or suppressing the fact; (4) the plaintiff was unaware  of the fact and would not have acted as he or she did if he or she had known of  the concealed or suppressed fact; and (5) plaintiff sustained damage as a  result of the concealment or suppression of the fact.” (Hambrick v.  Healthcare Partners Medical Group, Inc. (2015) 189 Cal.Rptr.3d 31, at 36,  citing Graham v. Bank of America, N.A., supra, 226 Cal.App.4th at  p. 606, 172 Cal.Rptr.3d 218.) “A  duty to speak may arise in four ways: it may be directly imposed by statute or  other prescriptive law; it may be voluntarily assumed by contractual  undertaking; it may arise as an incident of a relationship between the  defendant and the plaintiff; and it may arise as a result of other conduct by  the defendant that makes it wrongful for him to remain silent.” SCC  Acquisitions, Inc. v. Central Pacific Bank (2012) 207 Cal.App.4th 859,  860.     A concealment  cause of action has a more relaxed specificity requirement as compared to  affirmative misrepresentations because a concealment claim does not assert that  Defendant actively or affirmatively defrauded the public in general of  Plaintiff in particular. The rule of specifically pleading how, when,  where, to whom and by what means, misrepresentations were communicated is  intended to apply to affirmative misrepresentations and not to  concealment. (Alfaro v. Community Housing Improvement System &  Planning Assn, Inc. (2009) 171 Cal.App.4th 1356 at 1384.)    As the court noted in its prior ruling, the mere existence of online  reviews does not provide a sufficient basis for imputing knowledge. In the FAC,  Plaintiff also provides evidence of Ecolab reports, which show that Ecolab  visited the property “for bedbug complaints” at various time over two years  prior to Plaintiff’s stay, including in rooms nearby Room 234 a few weeks prior  to Plaintiff’s visit. Defendants argue in opposition that these reports do not  show that there was an active infestation, as Plaintiff does not allege the  purpose, findings, or substance of these alleged visits. Plaintiff merely  concludes that any visit from Ecolab is an admission that there was an active  infestation.   The court finds that Plaintiff has alleged sufficient facts to show that Defendants  had prior knowledge of an infestation.   Accordingly, Defendants’ demurrer is OVERRULED.   E.  Uncertainty   A demurrer to a pleading lies where the pleading is uncertain, ambiguous,  or unintelligible. (Code Civ. Proc. § 430.10, subd. (f).) “A demurrer for  uncertainty is strictly construed, even where a complaint is in some respects  uncertain, because ambiguities can be clarified under modern discovery  procedures.” (Khoury v. Maly’s of California, Inc. (1993) 14 Cal.App.4th  612, 616, disapproved on other grounds in Quelimane Co. v. Stewart Title  Guar. Co. (1998) 19 Cal.4th 26, 46 [holding claims for unfair business  practices need not be pled specifically, impliedly disapproving Khoury].)  As a result, a special demurrer for uncertainty is not intended to reach  failure to incorporate sufficient facts in the pleading but is directed only at  uncertainty existing in the allegations already made. (People v. Taliaferro  (1957) 149 Cal.App.2d 822, 825, disapproved on other grounds in Jefferson v.  J.E. French Co. (1960) 54 Cal.2d 717, 719-720 [statute of limitations  question].)    Where complaint is sufficient to state a cause of action and to apprise  defendant of issues he is to meet, it is not properly subject to a special  demurrer for uncertainty. (See ibid.; see also Gressley v. Williams  (1961) 193 Cal.App.2d 636, 643 [“A special demurrer [for uncertainty] should be  overruled where the allegations of the complaint are sufficiently clear to  apprise the defendant of the issues which he is to meet”].)    Considering Defendants raised substantive responses to Plaintiff’s  complaint, the court finds that the FAC is not “so bad” that Defendants were  not apprised of the issues they were to meet.   Accordingly, the special demurrer for uncertainty is OVERRULED.   F.  Motion to Strike   The court may, upon a motion, or at any time in its discretion, and upon  terms it deems proper, strike any irrelevant, false, or improper matter  inserted in any pleading. (Code Civ. Proc. §  436(a).) The court may also strike all or any part of any pleading not  drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of this state, a court rule, or an  order of the court. (Code Civ. Proc. § 436(b).) The grounds for moving to  strike must appear on the face of the pleading or from any matter of which the  court is required to take judicial notice. (Code Civ. Proc. § 437.)   Defendants move to strike Plaintiff’s request for attorney’s fees and  punitive damages, and portions of the FAC which make conclusory allegations  that Defendants acted willfully, wantonly, or maliciously. Defendants contend  that there is no contractual or statutory basis to award attorney’s fees, and  Plaintiff has failed to properly plead oppressive, malicious, or fraudulent  conduct.   Plaintiff has not adequately alleged the existence of a contract, and  thus, there is no basis to request attorney’s fees. Plaintiff also does not  cite to any statute which would support her request. Thus, the court GRANTS  Defendants’ motion to strike Plaintiff’s request for attorney’s fees.   However, as discussed above, Plaintiff has provided sufficient facts  showing that Defendants had notice of the infestation. Accordingly, Plaintiff  has provided sufficient facts showing that Defendants’ conduct was “fraudulent.”  Thus, the court DENIES Defendants’ motion to strike punitive damages.   Defendants’ motion to strike is GRANTED in part and DENIED in part.   G.  Leave to Amend   Leave to amend must be allowed where there is a reasonable possibility of  successful amendment. (See Goodman v. Kennedy (1976) 18 Cal.3d 335, 349  [court shall not “sustain a demurrer without leave to amend if there is any  reasonable possibility that the defect can be cured by amendment”] The burden  is on the complainant to show the Court that a pleading can be amended successfully.  (Ibid.)   Plaintiff has not made substantive changes to the breach of contract  cause of action. Therefore, the court assumes that there are no other facts  relevant to a cause of action for contract which can be pled.  Nor has plaintiff provided any additional  facts to suggest that the Defendants targeted Plaintiff sufficient to show a  valid claim for Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress. Therefore, the  court DENIES leave to amend as to the causes of action for breach of contract  and IIED.   CONCLUSION              Based on the foregoing, the court rules as follows: Defendants’ demurrer  is SUSTAINED in its part and OVERRULED in part. The motion to strike is GRANTED  as to attorney’s fees and DENIED as to punitive damages. Leave to amend is DENIED  as to breach of contract and IIED claims.   Defendants are ordered to give notice of ruling. 