 Case Number:  24STCP00143    Hearing Date:   March 12, 2024    Dept:  82 


 
GLOBAL EDUCATION COLLABORATIVE,  


 
 
 
 
Petitioner,


 
 
 
 
Case No.
 


 
 
 
 
24STCP00143




vs.
 
 
LOS ANGELES UNIFIED SCHOOL DISTRICT,
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Respondent.
 


[TENTATIVE] RULING ON MOTION TO DISMISS OR, IN
  THE ALTERNATIVE, TO COMPEL MANDATORY DISPUTE RESOLUTION
 
Dept. 82 (Hon. Curtis A. Kin)
 
 




 


 


 


 



Respondent
Los Angeles Unified School District moves for an order dismissing the instant
action with prejudice, or in the alternative, compelling petitioner Global
Education Collaborative to participate in mandatory dispute resolution and
staying the current proceedings pending resolution of the mandatory dispute
resolution processes. 
 
I.       Factual Background
 
A.          
Charter
Schools Act and Proposition 39
 
In
enacting the Charter Schools Act of 1992 (Ed. Code § 47600, et seq.),
the Legislature intended “to provide opportunities for teachers, parents,
pupils, and community members to establish and maintain schools that operate
independently from the existing school district structure.” (Ed. Code § 47601.)
“Charter schools are public schools ‘“free from most state laws pertaining
uniquely to school districts.”’ [Citation.] The freedom granted to charter
schools is intended to promote choice and innovation, and to stimulate ‘competition
within the public school system.’ [Citation.]” (California Charter Schools
Assn. v. Los Angeles Unified School Dist. (2015) 60 Cal.4th 1221, 1228 [“Cal.
Charter Schools Assn.”].) 
 
Prior
to the enactment of Proposition 39 by California voters in 2000, due to limited
public funding to cover the cost of facilities, charter schools could use facilities
which were not currently being used by the districts. (Cal. Charter Schools
Assn., 60 Cal.4th at 1226, 1228.) Proposition 39 amended Education Code §
47614 and changed the way charter schools may obtain access to district
facilities. (Id. at 1228.) 
 
            Section 47614 provides, in relevant
part:
 
(a)
The intent of the people in amending Section 47614 is that public school
facilities should be shared fairly among all public school pupils, including
those in charter schools.
 
(b)
Each school district shall make available, to each charter school operating in
the school district, facilities sufficient for the charter school to
accommodate all of the charter school’s in-district students in conditions
reasonably equivalent to those in which the students would be accommodated if
they were attending other public schools of the district. 
 
Charter
schools seeking to use district facilities are required to provide the district
with “with a reasonable projection of the charter school’s average daily
classroom attendance by in-district students for the following year” on an
annual basis. (Ed. Code § 47614(b)(2).) The State Board of Education
subsequently issued regulations governing the implementation of section 47614.
(5 C.C.R. §§ 11969.1-11969.10.)
 
            Under regulation 11969.9(b), “[t]o
receive facilities during a particular fiscal year, a charter school must
submit a written facilities request to the school district on or before
November 1 of the preceding fiscal year.” “School districts may require the
charter school to submit its facilities request…on a form available from the [California
Department of Education] and developed in consultation with the Advisory
Commission on Charter Schools (ACCS) or another form specified by the school
district.” (5 C.C.R. § 11969.9(c)(3).) The district then has until December 1
to object in writing and state the projects it considers reasonable. (5 C.C.R.
§ 11969.9(d).) The charter school then has until January 2 to respond to
the district. (5 C.C.R. § 11969.9(e).)
 
            The California Supreme Court
summarized the procedures after submission of a facilities request: “By the
following February 1, the school district receiving the request must make a
preliminary space allocation proposal that ‘[at] a minimum’ ‘shall include (1)
the projections of in-district classroom [average daily attendance] on which
the proposal is based, (2) the specific location or locations of the space, (3)
all conditions pertaining to the space, including a draft of any proposed
agreement pertaining to the charter school's use of the space, and (4) the
projected pro rata share amount and a description of the methodology used to
determine that amount. The district shall also provide the charter school a
list and description of the comparison group schools used in developing its
preliminary proposal, and a description of the differences between the
preliminary proposal and the charter school's facilities request....’ [Citation.]
After the charter school has had an opportunity to respond to the proposal, the
district must make a final space offer to the charter school by April 1, and
the charter school must notify the District whether it accepts the offer within
30 days or by May 1, whichever is later. [Citation.]” (Cal. Charter Schools
Assn., 60 Cal.4th at 1231.)
 
B.          
Allegations
in Petition
 
Petitioner
Global Education Collaborative operates a charter school known as Global
Education Academy (“GEA”). (Pet. at 2:1-2.) GEA is a charter school that serves
350 students in grades TK (transitional kindergarten) through eighth grade.
(Pet. ¶ 23.) Grades TK through fifth grade are taught at a private leased
facility. (Pet. ¶ 24.) Starting in 2020, GEA has taught students in sixth
through eighth grades at facilities owned by respondent Los Angeles Unified
School District (“District”). (Pet. ¶ 24.)
 
Charter
schools located within the District that desire to use District facilities must
submit a facilities request through the District’s proprietary online
submission portal. (Pet. ¶¶ 19, 22.) On November 1, 2023, GEA’s Principal
uploaded all necessary information and documentary support into the District’s
portal. (Pet. ¶ 26.) The Principal attempted to but was unable to obtain
confirmation of the application submission on the evening of November 1, 2023.
(Pet. ¶ 29.) 
 
The
morning of November 2, 2023, the Principal emailed the District’s “Prop 39”
email address, as well as the District’s Charter Schools Division Director and
the Operations Coordinator, and stated that despite the application having been
completed and the documents having been uploaded, she did not think the
facilities request “went through.” (Pet. ¶¶ 30, 33 & Exs. 1, 2.) The
Principal asked if it was possible to accept the facilities request for the
2024-25 school year. (Ibid.)
 
On
November 30, 2023, the District asserted that GEA did not submit a written
facilities request on or before November 1, 2023 and denied GEA’s facilities
request. (Pet. ¶ 36.) The District maintained it was under no obligation under
regulation 11969.9(d) to object to the request but reserved the right to object
in case GEA is found to have submitted a valid facilities request. (Pet. ¶¶ 37,
38.) The District then alternatively argued that if it is determined that it
complied with its obligation to object under regulation 11969.9(d), then the
in-district classroom average daily attendance it would consider reasonable for
GEA is 0.00. (Pet. ¶ 39.) 
 
GEA
seeks a writ of mandate compelling the District to accept its facilities
request and prepare a proposal of facilities to be offered to GEA for the
2024-25 school year based on its enrollment projection submitted on November 1,
2023. (Pet. ¶ 55, Prayer for Relief ¶ 1.)
  
II.      Analysis
 
            The District’s request to take
judicial notice of the material revision to the charter of Global Education
Academy approved by the District’s Board of Education on December 18, 2018 is
GRANTED. (Physicians Committee for Responsible Medicine v. Los Angeles
Unified School Dist. (2019) 43 Cal.App.5th 175, 183, citing Evid. Code §
452(a), (c) [“school board actions can be official acts, and school board
policies and regulations may be recognized by judicial notice”].) 
 
            GEA’s evidentiary objections are
OVERRULED.
 
            The District moves to dismiss the
instant petition on the ground that Element 14 of GEA’s charter requires GEA to
engage in a mandatory dispute resolution process. (RJN Ex. 1 at 133-35.) Under
Element 14, “[a]ny Dispute related to or arising out of Education Code §4 7614
and/or its implementing regulations set forth in California Code of
Regulations, title 5, section 11969 et seq.” shall be resolved by the
procedures set forth in Element 14. (RJN Ex. 1 at 134.) 
 
First,
the party with a dispute must tender a “Written Notification” that identifies
the nature of the dispute and all supporting facts to the other party. (RJN Ex.
1 at 134.) The other party then shall tender a “Written Response” to the
disputing party within 15 business days from the date of receipt of the Written
Notification. (Ibid.) If the Written Response does not resolve the
dispute, the parties must schedule an Issue Conference to take place within 15
days of receipt of the Written Response where the parties shall discuss the
dispute. (RJN Ex. 1 at 135.) If the parties do not resolve the dispute at the
Issue Conference, either party may request mediation. (Ibid.) If
mediation is not successful, either party may initiate a civil action in the Los
Angeles County Superior Court. (Ibid.) 
 
            On November 22, 2023, GEA tendered a
Written Notification to the District. (Borden Decl. ¶ 13 & Ex. B.) On December
15, 2023, the District tendered a Written Response to GEA. (Borden Decl. Ex.
C.) The District contends that GEA never requested an Issue Conference or
mediation of its dispute concerning GEA’s facilities request for the 2024-25
school year. (Borden Decl. ¶ 14.) 


            CCP § 581 lists grounds on which an action may be dismissed, including,
for example, when either party fails to appear for trial after notice (subd.
(b)(3)) and after the plaintiff’s failure to amend a complaint within the
period of leave granted by the court after it sustains a demurrer (subd.
(f)(2)). As noted by the District, CCP § 581(m) states: “The provisions of this
section shall not be deemed to be an exclusive enumeration of the court’s power
to dismiss an action or dismiss a complaint as to a defendant.” (See Reply
at 7:11-15.) The breadth of CCP § 581(m) notwithstanding, the District cites no
authority where the court compelled the parties to meet and confer about a
dispute or attend mediation. The cases cited by the District pertain to motions
to compel arbitration, which are expressly allowed by CCP §§ 1281.2 and 1281.7.
(Freeman v. State Farm Mut. Auto. Ins. Co. (1975) 14 Cal.3d 473, 479 [“A
proceeding to compel arbitration is in essence a suit in equity to compel
specific performance of a contract.”]; Mercury Ins. Group v. Sup. Ct.
(1998) 19 Cal.4th 332, 349 [“An order denying a petition to compel contractual
arbitration is appealable”].) With respect to Proposition 39, Element 14 does
not contain any arbitration requirement. (Cf. RJN Ex. 1 at 136
[non-Proposition 39 disputes subject to arbitration after mediation].) 
 
            The
District also contends that GEA failed to exhaust administrative remedies. “A
basic doctrine of law demands exhaustion of a party’s administrative remedies
before he files suit, even though no statute makes it a condition of his right
to sue…. Mandatory contractual remedies must be exhausted before resort to the
courts.” (A. Teichert & Son, Inc. v. State (1965) 238 Cal.App.2d
736, 746, disapproved of on other grounds by E. H. Morrill Co. v. State
(1967) 65 Cal.2d 787.) However, “when a purported administrative remedy did not
incorporate ‘clearly defined machinery for the submission, evaluation and
resolution of complaints by aggrieved parties,’” courts have declined to impose
an exhaustion requirement. (Hill RHF Housing Partners, L.P. v. City of Los
Angeles (2021) 12 Cal.5th 458, 479.) 
 
            Here,
Element 14 sets forth no procedure for the evaluation and resolution of GEA’s
dispute. Element 14 only requires the parties to meet and confer at an Issue
Conference about GEA’s facilities request. (RJN Ex. 1 at 135.) If the dispute remains
unresolved, Element 14 requires the parties to attend mediation. (Ibid.)
Mediation does not require the evaluation or resolution of the dispute. Mediation
is “a process in which a neutral person or persons facilitate communication
between the disputants to assist them in reaching a mutually acceptable
agreement.” (Evid. Code § 1115(a).) “Although mediation takes many forms and
has been defined in many ways, it is essentially a process where a neutral
third party who has no authoritative decisionmaking power intervenes in a
dispute to help the disputants voluntarily reach their own mutually acceptable
agreement.” (Travelers Casualty & Surety Co. v. Superior Court
(2005) 126 Cal.App.4th 1131, 1138-39.) 
 
Unlike
arbitration, Element 14 does not require the mediator to evaluate or reach any
conclusion on the merits of whether GEA is entitled to have its facilities
request processed and considered. (See A. Teichert, 238 Cal.App.2d at
746 [“Contract provisions for the extrajudicial settlement of disputes are
binding on the parties whether the arrangement is technically a commonlaw or statutory
arbitration or something akin”]; cf. RJN Ex. 1 at 136 [for
non-Proposition 39 disputes, “If the mediation is not successful, then the
parties agree to resolve the Dispute by binding arbitration conducted by a
single arbitrator”].) Accordingly, the dispute resolution procedures set forth
in Element 14 are not remedies GEA was required to exhaust before commencing
the instant action. 
 
            For
the foregoing reasons, the District fails to meet its burden to demonstrate
grounds to dismiss the instant petition. (People v. Williams (1999) 20
Cal.4th 119, 129 [“In general, the moving party must carry the initial burden
of informing its opponent and the court of the specific basis for its motion”].)

 
            In any event, even if the District could
advance a legal basis for dismissal based on the provisions of Element 14, the
Court would find the District has waived its right to enforce the dispute
resolution procedures set forth in Element 14. The charter is a contract that binds
the charter school and the District. (See Knapp v. Palisades Charter High
School (2007) 146 Cal.App.4th 708, 714; RJN Ex. A [GEA charter agreed to by
District and GEA].) A party may expressly waive contractual rights through its
words or impliedly waive contractual rights based on conduct indicating an
intent to relinquish the right. (Wind Dancer Production Group v. Walt Disney
Pictures (2017) 10 Cal.App.5th 56, 78.)
 
            On November 22, 2023, GEA requested
confirmation that the District accepted its Proposition 39 facilities request.
Specifically, GEA stated:
 
Global
Education Academy has requested confirmation from the District several times
since early November that the District has accepted its Prop. 39 request, with
no response from the District. [¶] As such, we are sending formal
correspondence to the District initiating dispute resolution with the District
regarding this matter, pursuant to Section 14 of the GEA charter, as several
weeks have elapsed with no response from the District.
 
(Borden
Decl. ¶ 13 & Ex. B at 165.) After having stated the grounds upon which the
District must accept the request, GEA concluded its correspondence to the
District with the following: “Please inform GEA as soon as possible whether the
District will be proceeding with the Prop. 39 process or if the dispute
resolution process must commence.” (Borden Decl. ¶ 13 & Ex. B at 167.) 
 
            The District responded on December
15, 2023. (Borden Decl. Ex. C.) The District disagreed that GEA timely
submitted its facilities request. After stating the ground on which it
disagreed with GEA’s claim that the District failed to process its timely
request, the District concluded its response with the following: 
 
Based
on the foregoing, Charter School is not entitled to be allocated and/or
provided access to any facilities by the District for the 2024-25 school year
pursuant to Proposition 39. As such, the District does not believe Charter
School has a viable legal claim that warrants the continuation of the dispute
resolution process, and respectfully declines to grant Charter School’s request
presented in the Written Notification.
 
(Borden
Decl. Ex. C at 172.)[1]
The Court finds that the District knowingly waived any right to enforce the
dispute resolution procedures in the charter. In its Written Notification, GEA
requested notification as to whether the District will process GEA’s facilities
request or whether the dispute resolution process must commence. In its Written
Response, the District declined the request. The District responded that GEA’s
claim was not viable to the effect that continuation of the dispute resolution
process was not warranted. 
 
In
the reply, the District contends: “LAUSD’s statement was merely a summary
expression of LAUSD’s view that GEA’s claim lacked merit. LAUSD did not refuse
to further participate in the dispute resolution process or otherwise instruct
GEA that it was excused from complying with the mandatory dispute resolution
process.” (Reply at 11:21-24.) The Court disagrees. The District did not merely
end its letter by stating only that it does not believe that GEA has a viable
legal claim. The District instead asserted that continuation of the dispute
resolution process was not warranted. GEA had requested the District to inform
it “as soon as possible whether the District will be proceeding with the Prop.
39 process or if the dispute resolution process must commence.” (Borden Decl. ¶
13 & Ex. B at 167.) The District denied GEA’s request. The District did not
request an Issue Conference or mediation. Accordingly, the Court finds the
District waived its right to have an Issue Conference or mediation under
Element 14 of GEA’s charter.  
 
III.     Conclusion
            
The motion is DENIED. 


