  Case Number:  23STCV27321    Hearing Date:   October 4, 2024    Dept:  78  Superior Court of California County of Los Angeles Department 78 ¿ ESPERANZA MCCORKENDALE, Plaintiff(s), vs. JOE BYRON, et al., Defendant(s). Case No.: 23STCV27321 Hearing Date: October 4, 2024   [TENTATIVE] ORDER GRANTING MOTIONS TO COMPEL FURTHER  I. BACKGROUND Plaintiff Esperanza McCorkendale (“Plaintiff”) filed this breach of contract action against defendants Joseph James Byron AKA Joe Byron (“Byron”), Egg Heaven, LLC, Ramona Streit (Doe 1) (“Streit”), and Does 2 through 50. The complaint alleges as follows. Byron agreed to sell the restaurant known as Egg Heaven (“the Restaurant”) to Plaintiff and that the parties formalized the agreement in writing (“the Agreement”). (Id. ¶ 8.) Plaintiff renovated the Restaurant and assumed payments needed to keep the Restaurant open. (Id. ¶ 10.) Plaintiff would be an employee until she purchased the Restaurant; the Restaurant opened on December 14, 2022. (Id. ¶ 11.) In about late February 2023, Plaintiff informed Byron that she was prepared to purchase the restaurant, but Byron would not sell the restaurant for $175,000 as promised and Plaintiff quit. (Id. ¶12.) Plaintiff was denied the right to purchase the Restaurant for the value as stated in the Agreement, not paid for ten weeks of work, not reimbursed to renovate the Restaurant, and denied profits from the operations and additional profits that would have resulted had defendants followed through with the sale. (Id. ¶ 13.) The complaint sets forth seven causes of action for (1) Breach of Contract, (2) Intentional Misrepresentation, (3) Common Counts, (4) Promissory Estoppel, (5) Specific Performance, (6) Unjust Enrichment, and (7) Violations of Labor Code. Plaintiff later dismissed her fifth cause of action against all parties, and dismissed the first and second causes of action as to Streit only. Plaintiff moves to compel further responses from defendants (1) Byron, as to Request for Production of Documents (“RPDs”), Set One, Nos. 1-18; (2) Streit as to RPDs, Set One, Nos. 1-15 ; and (3) Egg Heaven as to the RPDs, Set One, Nos. 5, 7-11, 13, 15-16, and 18. Defendants Byron, Streit, and Egg Heaven (collectively, “Defendants”) oppose the motions.  II. procedural REQUIREMENTS Meet and Confer Requirement A motion¿to compel further responses to requests for production “shall be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration.”¿(Cal. Code Civ. Proc. § 2033.290(b)(1); § 2030.300(b)(1).) The declaration must state facts showing a reasonable and good faith attempt at an informal resolution of each issue presented in the motion.¿(Code Civ. Proc. § 2016.040.) As with Plaintiff’s other set of motions to compel further, Plaintiff’s counsel avers there were meet and confer efforts and that Defendants refused to participate with Plaintiff’s attempt to schedule an Informal Discovery Conference (“IDC”). Defendants dispute that Plaintiff properly met and conferred. An IDC was conducted on July 12, 2024, wherein the issues were not resolved. At that time, the Court ordered Counsel to further meet and confer and to reserve a one-hour IDC slot on a new date, at which the parties were ordered to appear in person. Defendants appear to have made no effort to respond to Plaintiff’s request to schedule the second IDC. The Court finds the meet and confer requirements satisfied. Separate Statement A motion to compel further responses requires a separate statement. (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1345(a).)¿¿ The Court finds that Plaintiff properly filed a separate statement for each motion to compel further.¿  III. DISCUSSION CCP § 2031.310(a) provides that on receipt of a response to a demand for inspection, copying, testing, or sampling, the demanding party may move for an order compelling further response to the demand if the demanding party deems that any of the following apply:¿¿¿¿ (1) A statement of compliance with the demand is incomplete.¿¿ (2) A representation of inability to comply is inadequate, incomplete, or evasive.¿¿ (3) An objection in the response is without merit or too general.¿ Here, defendants Streit and Byron provided objection-only responses to each of Plaintiffs’ RPDs, Set One, primarily on the grounds of relevance. Defendant Egg Heaven agreed to produce a copy of the Operating Agreement as to No. 5, but provided objection-only responses to the remaining requests on similar relevance grounds. In terms of Egg Heaven’s contentions that it provided code-compliant responses by referring to its responses to request Nos. 1 and 2. The Court notes that Plaintiff’s separate statement does not identify Egg Heaven’s responses to Nos. 1-4 as in dispute; the Court’s review is limited to those specifically delineated in the separate statement. Overall, the Court finds Defendants’ objections to be without merit. To the extent that any responsive documents exist, Defendants shall produce if the document has yet to be produced. If Defendants are unable to comply with any aspect of the request, then Defendants must provide code-compliant responses. (See CCP §§ 2031.230, 2031.240.)  IV. CONCLUSION Plaintiff’s motion to compel further responses to RPDs, Set One, served on Bryon is GRANTED as to Nos. 1-18. Plaintiff’s motion to compel further responses to RPDs, Set One, served on Streit is GRANTED as to Nos. 1-15. Plaintiff’s motion to compel further responses to RPDs, Set One, served on Egg Heaven is GRANTED as to Nos. 5, 7-11, 13, 15-16, and 18. Defendants are ordered to provide further responses within 10 days. The Court awards Plaintiff costs in the amount of $284.00.  Moving Party is ordered to give notice.  DATED: October 3, 2024 __________________________ Hon. Michelle C. Kim Judge of the Superior Court  PLEASE TAKE NOTICE: • Parties are encouraged to meet and confer after reading this tentative ruling to see if they can reach an agreement. • If a party intends to submit on this tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the court at SMCDEPT78@lacourt.org with the Subject line “SUBMIT” followed by the case number. The body of the email must include the hearing date and time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the party submitting. • Unless all parties submit by email to this tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or in person for oral argument. You should assume that others may appear at the hearing to argue. • If the parties neither submit nor appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court. After the Court has issued a tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion without leave. 