 Case Number:  24STCV01673    Hearing Date:   June 14, 2024    Dept:  73 06/14/24
Dept. 73
Hon. Rolf
Treu, Judge presiding
 
ALADDIN DINAALI v. BRIDGE PROPERTY
MANAGEMENT, LC, et al. (24STCV01673)
 
Counsel for
Plaintiff/opposing party: Aladdin Dinaali (Pro Per)
Counsel for
Defendants/moving party:  David Samani (Lewis
Brisbois Bisgaard & Smith LLP)
 
SPECIAL MOTION TO STRIKE CROSS-COMPLAINT PURUSANT
TO § CCP 426. (filed on 3/25/24 by Defendants Bridge Property
Management, LC, James E. Murphy, and Lewis Brisbois Bisgaard & Smith LLP)
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 
Defendant’s
special motion to strike the Complaint is GRANTED. 
 
I. BACKGROUND
 
On
January 23, 2024, Plaintiff Aladdin Dinaali (“Plaintiff”) filed this action against
Defendants Bridge Property Management, LC (“Bridge”); Lewis Brisbois Bisgaard
& Smith LLP (“LBBS”); James E. Murphy (“Murphy”); American Legal
Investigation Services Nevada, Inc.; Gabriela Melendez; and Deyber Jimenez. 
 
The basis of this lawsuit is that in April 2022, Bridge, through
its counsel, Murphy, sued Plaintiff in Nevada (the “Nevada action”) for
defamation and business disparagement. In the Nevada action, Bridge alleged
that Plaintiff damaged its reputation by creating two websites that falsely
stated that criminals resided in Bridge’s property and that the company is
racist. Plaintiff allegedly sent e-mails to Bridge’s employees directing them
to visit the websites. Bridge dismissed the case in May 2023. 
 
In October 2022, Plaintiff sued Bridge and Murphy in Los Angeles
Superior Court, case number 22STCV32840 (“First California Action”). Plaintiff alleged
that he was wrongfully sued in Nevada, Bridge allegedly filed a false police
report against him for criminal prosecution, Bridge conspired with its attorney
and employees to falsely accuse him of violating various statutes, and that his
website constitutes protected activities. In January 2023, the court dismissed
the case. 
 
In January 2024, Plaintiff brought this current lawsuit alleging
that the Nevada action was filed by Defendants frivolously and unlawfully. The Complaint alleges the
following causes of action: 
 
C/A
1: Conspiracy 
C/A
2: Malicious Prosecution
C/A
3: Abuse of Process
C/A
4: Unfair Business Practices (Civ § 1770)
C/A
5: Unfair Business Practices (BPC § 17200)
C/A
6: Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress
C/A
7: Negligent Infliction of Emotional Distress 
 
On March 25, 2024, Defendants Bridge, LBBS and Murphy
(collectively “Defendants”) filed the instant special motion to strike the
Complaint, arguing:
·      
First
Prong – Protected Activity
o  
Any
written or oral statement made in a judicial proceeding is protected conduct.
(Code of Civ. Pro. 425 § (e)(1).) A filed
lawsuit is a writing made in a judicial proceeding. 
o  
Each
of the claims in the Complaint are based on the litigation activities and
lawsuit filings of Plaintiff.
·       Second Prong – Plaintiff cannot
prevail on the Complaint’s causes of action
o  
All causes of action are barred by the litigation privilege.
Except for malicious prosecution, California courts do not allow tort claims
based on litigation-related activity. The Complaint’s causes of action are
premised on the allegation that Defendants filed a frivolous lawsuit. 
 
Plaintiff filed an opposition, arguing: 
·       Defendants did not shift the burden to Plaintiff as they dismissed the underlying
action.
·       Plaintiff can
prevail in his suit. Defendants filed their SLAPP lawsuit in the wrong
jurisdiction through deceit and fraud.
 
Defendants filed a reply, arguing:
·       The fact that
the underlying action was dismissed with or without prejudice is irrelevant
with respect to whether the anti-SLAPP statute applies
·       Plaintiff
admits that the underlying action is the “basis for the present suit.”
Consequently, prong one is plainly established.
·       Plaintiff has
failed to establish a probability of prevailing. Plaintiff’s opposition
contains no admissible evidence.
·      
Plaintiff’s opposition does not address Defendants’ arguments
regarding the litigation privilege and res judicata/collateral estoppel.
 
II. ANALYSIS
 
A.     Legal
Standard 
 
Code of Civil Procedure
section 425.16 permits the court to strike causes of action arising from an act
in furtherance of the defendant’s right of free speech or petition unless the
plaintiff establishes that there is a probability that the plaintiff will
prevail on the claim.  
 
In assessing a defendant’s
section 425.16 special motion to strike, the court must engage in a two-step
process.¿ (Shekhter v. Financial Indem. Co. (2001) 89 Cal.App.4th 141,
150.)¿ First, the court must decide whether the defendant has met the threshold
burden of showing that the plaintiff’s cause of action arises from the
defendant’s constitutional rights of free speech or petition for redress of
grievances.  (Id.)  This burden may be met by showing the act
which forms the basis for the plaintiff's cause of action was an act that falls
within one of the four categories of conduct set forth in 425.16, subdivision
(e).¿  
 
If the defendant meets his
initial burden and establishes that the anti-SLAPP statute applies, the burden
then shifts to the plaintiff to demonstrate a probability that the plaintiff
will prevail on the claim.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 425.16, subd. (b); Equilon
Enters. LLC v. Consumer Cause, Inc. (2002) 29 Cal.4th 53, 67 (Equilon.) 
“[T]he plaintiff must demonstrate that the complaint is both legally sufficient
and supported by a sufficient prima facie showing of facts to sustain a
favorable judgment if the evidence submitted by the plaintiff is
credited.”  (Matson v. Dvorak (1995) 40 Cal.App.4th 539, 548 (Matson)
(internal quotations omitted).)   
¿ 
In making its
determination of the anti-SLAPP motion, the court shall consider the pleadings,
and supporting and opposing affidavits stating the facts upon which the
liability or defense is based.¿ (Code Civ. Proc., § 425.16, subd.
(b)(2).)¿
Conversely, if the evidence relied upon cannot be admitted at trial,
because it is categorically barred or undisputed factual circumstances show
inadmissibility, the court may not consider it in the face of an
objection.  If an evidentiary objection is made, the plaintiff may attempt
to cure the asserted defect or demonstrate the defect is curable.”  (Sweetwater
Union High School Dist. v. Gilbane Building Co. (2019) 6 Cal.5th 931, 949.) 
 
The court properly
considers the evidentiary submissions of both the plaintiff and the defendant,
but it may not weigh the credibility or comparative strength of the evidence
and must instead simply determine whether the plaintiff's evidence would, if believed
by the trier of fact, be sufficient to result in a judgment for
plaintiff.  (McGarry v. Univ. of San Diego (2007) 154 Cal.App.4th
97, 10809.)  The court “accepts as true the evidence favorable to the
plaintiff and evaluates the defendant’s evidence only to determine if it has
defeated that submitted by the plaintiff as a matter of law.”¿ (Flatley v.
Mauro (2006) 39 Cal.4th 299, 326.)¿ Further, whether or not the evidence is
in conflict in the context of a motion to strike under the antiSLAPP statute,
if the plaintiff has presented a sufficient pleading and has presented evidence
showing that a prima facie case will be established at trial, the plaintiff is
entitled to proceed.  (Moore v. Shaw (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 182,
193.)  Only a minimal showing of merit is required.  (Robinzine v.
Vicory (2006) 143 Cal.App.4th 1416, 1421.) 
 
B.     Request for
Judicial Notice
 
Defendants request
that the Court take judicial notice of the following documents in support of
their motion:
1.     Complaint
against Plaintiff in Clark County Nevada styled as Bridge Property Management,
LC v. Aladdin Dinaali, case number A-22-851672-C (the “Nevada Action”). 
2.     Motion to
Dismiss in the Nevada Action. 
3.     Motion for
Sanction in Nevada Action. 
4.     Motion to
Strike in Nevada Action. 
5.     Motion to
Reconsider in Nevada Action. 
6.     Complaint
against Bridge and Mr. Murphy in Los Angeles Superior Court, case number
22STCV32840 (“First California Action”). 
7.     Demurrer in
the First California Action. 
8.     Anti-SLAPP
Motion in First California Action.
9.     Order of
Dismissal in First California Action. 
 
Plaintiff requests
that the Court take judicial notice of the following documents in support of
his opposition: 
1.     Cease and
Desist Letter from Bridge to Plaintiff dated April 18, 2022 
2.     Plaintiff’s
response to the letter dated April 18, 2022
 
The court may
take judicial notice of “official acts of the legislative, executive, and
judicial departments of the United States and of any state of the United
States,” “[r]ecords of (1) any court of this state or (2) any court of record
of the United States or of any state of the United States,” and “[f]acts and
propositions that are not reasonably subject to dispute and are capable of
immediate and accurate determination by resort to sources of reasonably
indisputable accuracy.” (Evid. Code § 452, subds. (c), (d), and (h).)
 
The Court grants judicial notice of all Defendants and Plaintiff’s
requested documents. The Court notes that although it may take judicial notice
of the documents, the documents are only judicially noticeable to show their
existence and what orders were made. The truth of its contents, facts and
findings within the documents are not judicially noticeable. (See Lockley v. Law Office of Cantrell, Green,
Pekich, Cruz & McCort (2001) 91 Cal.App.4th 875, 885; Herrera v. Deutsche Bank National Trust Co.
(2011) 196 Cal.App.4th 1366, 1375.)
C.     First Prong –
Cause of Action Arising from Protected Activity 
 
“A cause of
action. . . arising from any act of that person in furtherance of the person’s
right of petition” is subject to the anti-SLAPP statute.  (CCP §
425.16(b)(1).)  Section 425.16, subdivision (e), expressly
defines an “ ‘act in furtherance of a person’s right of petition’ ” to include
“any written or oral statement or writing made before a ... judicial
proceeding, or any other official proceeding authorized by law” and “any
written or oral statement or writing made in connection with an issue under
consideration or review by a ... judicial body.” (CCP § 425.16(e)(1), (2).) “
‘Any act’ includes communicative conduct such as the filing, funding, and
prosecution of a civil action [citation],” including “qualifying acts committed
by attorneys in representing clients in litigation.” (Rusheen v. Cohen (2006) 37 Cal.4th 1048, 1056.)
 
Here, Plaintiff’s
causes of action are entirely premised on Defendants’ litigation-related
activities. Plaintiff’s Complaint alleges the following: “Plaintiff has been the subject of a malicious and fabricated SLAPP
(Strategic Litigation Against Public Participation) suit brought by Bridge, a
national management company, through its counsel, Murphy, from law firm of
LBBS, with the illegal aid of two private investigators, Melendez and Jimenez,
from private investigation firm of First Legal.” (Complaint,
¶ 12.) “The illegal, tortuous
and malicious actions of Defendants were the result of a conspiracy designed to
harass, intimidate and damage Plaintiff simply in retaliation for lawful acts
of Plaintiff standing up for the rights of a third party to whom Plaintiff owed
a fiduciary duty.” (Complaint, ¶ 15.) “Plaintiff will show
that the sham case was brought by Bridge without any probable cause whatsoever
and simply based on an illegal collusion with the presiding judge of the case
in Nevada.” (Complaint, ¶ 19.)
 
In JSJ Limited Partnership v. Mehrban (2012) 205 Cal.App.4th 1512, 1521, the Court
held “[f]iling a lawsuit is an act in furtherance of the constitutional right
of petition, regardless of whether it has merit.” (See also Booker v. Rountree (2007) 155 Cal.App.4th 1366, 1370 [“[T]here is
no doubt the cross-complaint arises out the underlying litigation, so it is
subject to the anti-SLAPP statute.)
 
Accordingly,
because the filing of the lawsuit is protected activity, the Court concludes Defendants
have met the first prong, and the burden shifts to Plaintiff. 
 
D.     Second Prong
– Probability of Prevailing on Causes of Action
 
Once a defendant demonstrates that protected conduct is at
issue, the plaintiff must show that the complaint is both legally sufficient
and supported by a sufficient prima facie showing of facts to sustain a favorable
judgment if the evidence submitted by the plaintiff is credited.  (Navellier
v. Sletten (2002) 29 Cal.4th 82, 88-89.) “The court
does not weigh evidence or resolve conflicting factual claims. Its inquiry is
limited to whether the plaintiff has stated a legally sufficient claim and made
a prima facie factual showing sufficient to sustain a favorable judgment.” (Baral v. Schnitt (2016) 1 Cal.5th 376, 384.)
Accordingly, as explained in Baral, the second step of the analysis
under section 425.16 requires a
plaintiff to separately establish a probability of prevailing on each distinct
claim for relief: “[T]he plaintiff must make the requisite showing as to each
challenged claim that is based on allegations of protected activity.” (Id.
at p. 392.)
 
a.     Second Cause
of Action: Malicious Prosecution
 
In a
malicious prosecution or abuse of process action, “[t]he governing law is that
of the state where the proceeding complained of occurred, with the usual
qualification for a state of more significant relationship (which is rare).” (5
Witkin, Summary of Cal. Law (10th ed. 2005) Torts, § 197, p. 335 (emphasis in
original); see Rest.2d Conf. of Laws, § 155, com. b, p. 475-476 [“The rights
and liabilities of the parties for malicious prosecution or abuse of process
are determined by the local law of the state where the proceeding complained of
occurred, unless, with respect to the particular issue, some other state has a
more significant relationship”].) 
 
Here, Plaintiff’s
malicious prosecution cause of action arises from the Nevada Action. The
Complaint alleges that “Defendants Bridge, LBBS and Murphy, engaged in
fabricating, initiating and maintaining a malicious SLAPP suit against
Plaintiff.” (Compl., ¶ 96.) Since the underlying action occurred in Nevada, Defendants
assert that Nevada law applies. It is undisputed that the underlying action was
filed in Nevada. Thus, the Court finds Nevada law applies here. 
 
Under Nevada law, a “malicious prosecution claim requires that the
defendant initiated, procured the institution of, or actively participated in
the continuation of a criminal proceeding against the plaintiff (LaMantia v.
Redisi (2002) 118 Nev. 27, 30 [38 P.3d 877, 879-880].) 
 
In the underlying Nevada action, Defendants had initiated a civil
proceeding against Plaintiff, not a criminal proceeding. Since Nevada law only
allows malicious prosecution claims if the defendant initiated a criminal
proceeding against the plaintiff, Plaintiff’s claim for malicious prosecution
fails.
 
Plaintiff’s
opposition fails to establish a prima facie case as to his second cause of
action. Not only does Plaintiff fail to address the elements of this claim, but
Plaintiff does not present any evidence in support. In “opposing an anti-SLAPP
motion, the plaintiff cannot rely on the allegations of the complaint, but must
produce evidence that would be admissible at trial.” (HMS Capital, Inc. v.
Lawyers Title Co. (2004) 118 Cal. App. 4th 204, 212.)
 
Accordingly, Plaintiff
fails to show a likelihood of prevailing on any of his second cause of action. 
 
b.     Litigation
Privilege
 
Next,
Defendants contend that Plaintiff cannot prevail on any of his remaining causes
of action because they are barred by the litigation privilege. The Court
agrees. 
 
Civil Code section 47(b) provides an absolute privilege for
communications made in any legislative proceeding, in any judicial proceeding,
in any other official proceeding authorized by law, or in the initiation or
course of any other proceeding authorized by law. (See Civ. Code, § 47(b); Hagberg
v. California Federal Bank FSB (2004) 32 Cal.4th 350, 360.) “‘The usual
formulation is that the privilege applies to any communication (1) made in
judicial or quasi-judicial proceedings; (2) by litigants or other participants
authorized by law; (3) to achieve the objects of the litigation; and (4) that
[has] some connection or logical relation to the action.’” (Kenne v. Stennis
(2014) 230 Cal.App.4th 953, 964 (quoting Silberg v. Anderson (1990) 50
Cal.3d 205, 212).) The privilege “protects any statements or writings that have
‘some relation’ to a lawsuit,” meaning that “communications made both during
and in anticipation of litigation are covered by the statute.” (Id. at
965 (quoting Rubin v. Green (1993) 4 Cal.4th 1187, 1193-94).) “‘The
privilege is broadly applied to protect most publications within lawsuits
provided there is some connection between the lawsuit and the publication.’” (Obos
v. Scripps Psychological Associates, Inc. (1997) 59 Cal.App.4th 103, 108
(quoting Adams v. Superior Court (1992) 2 Cal.App.4th 521, 529).) “‘Any
doubt as to whether the privilege applies is resolved in favor of applying it.’”
(Id. (emphasis in original).) Section 47(b) bars all tort causes of
action except malicious prosecution. (See Hagberg, supra, 32 Cal.4th at
360.)
 
The Complaint’s first, third, fourth,
fifth, sixth and seventh causes of action are all based on Defendants’
filing of the underlying Nevada action. For example, Plaintiff alleges for the
first cause of action for conspiracy that when Defendants filed the Nevada
action, Defendants entered into a conspiracy “to retaliate against, harass,
intimidate and injure mind and body and finances of Plaintiff by way of a
fabricated libel suit filed without an iota of any evidence, an action which
could result in incarceration of Plaintiff in Nevada.” (Compl., ¶ 57.) The
third cause of action for abuse of process alleges Defendants filed the Nevada
action “to (1) retaliate against Plaintiff for reporting Bridge’s safety
violations to Nevada building and safety and fire officials, and (2) to force
through Plaintiff, removal from the internet of two legitimate websites posted
by a third party documenting Bridge’s illegal acts utilizing publisher’s First
Amendment rights to free speech.” (Compl., ¶ 121.) The fourth cause of action
for unfair business practices in violation of California Civil Code § 1770(3), alleges
that Defendants Murphy, Melendez and Jimenez, falsely certified several
perjured declarations in support of the Nevada action. (Compl., ¶ 130.) While
Plaintiff does not specify the basis of his fifth cause of action for unfair
business practices in violation of Business & Professions Code § 17200, he
appears to allege that it is based on Defendants’ illegal acts including the filing
of the Nevada action. (Compl., ¶ 138.) The sixth and seventh causes of actions
allege that Defendants’ meritless Nevada action caused Plaintiff to suffer
emotional distress. (Compl., ¶¶ 142-143, 153.)
 
Here, all claims are premised on communicative conduct either in,
directly related to, or in anticipation of the Nevada action. Since this
communicative conduct is related to a judicial proceeding, it is therefore
absolutely privileged under the litigation privilege. Therefore, Plaintiff’s
claims barred by the litigation privilege. 
 
Plaintiff does not address this argument in his opposition.
Plaintiff also does not attempt to establish a prima facie case as to each of
his causes of action, and Plaintiff does not present any evidence in support.
 
Accordingly, Plaintiff cannot show a
likelihood of prevailing on his causes of action because they are predicated on
an act shielded by the litigation privilege.  Because the Court concludes
the causes of action are barred by litigation privilege, the Court does not
consider other grounds raised by Defendants for granting the special motion to
strike.  
 
III. DISPOSITION
 

Defendant’s
special motion to strike the Complaint is GRANTED. 