 Case Number:  23STCV12750    Hearing Date:   June 14, 2024    Dept:  73 06/14/2024
Dept. 73
Hon. Rolf Treu, Judge presiding
 
GRUIA v. DESIGN REALITY, et al. (23STCV12750)
 
Counsel for
Plaintiff/moving party:  Rodrigo F. Diaz
(Law Office of Rodrigo F. Diaz) 
Counsel for
Defendants: N/A
 
(1)   APPLICATION AND ORDER FOR APPEARANCE AND
EXAMINATION – ENFORCEMENT OF JUDGMENT AGAINST JUDGMENT DEBTOR JAE SUNG dba
design reality (filed on 04/24/24)
(2)   APPLICATION AND ORDER FOR APPEARANCE AND
EXAMINATION – ENFORCEMENT OF JUDGMENT AGAINST JUDGMENT DEBTOR byron tzul (filed on 04/29/24)
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 
GRANTED
 
BACKGROUND
 
On June 5, 2023,
Plaintiff Martha Lucila Gruia filed this action against Defendants Design
Reality, Jae Sung Byon dba Design Reality (“Byon”), and Byron Tzul (“Tzul”)
alleging causes of action for:
C/A 1: Recovery
of Compensation Paid to Unlicensed Contractor
C/A 2: Breach
of Contract 
C/A 3: Fraud
C/A 4: Negligent
Misrepresentation
C/A 5:
Negligence
C/A 6: Unjust
Enrichment
 
The Complaint
alleges the following. In or around
May 2022, Defendant Byon met with Plaintiff at her home to provide a quote for
a home improvement project. (Compl., ¶ 7.) At
said meeting, Byon represented himself as the owner of Design Realty and
employer of Tzul. (Ibid.) The Project was for a kitchen and two bathroom
remodels which included custom cabinets; installation of cabinets, countertops,
sinks, and range hood. (Ibid.) The parties entered into an agreement for
the project. (Compl., ¶ 9.)  Defendants communicated to Plaintiff that they
finished the project in or around late July 2022. (Compl.,
¶ 15.) However, Plaintiff alleges she complained that the work was done poorly.
(Compl., ¶ 16.) Although Defendants initially assured Plaintiff they would fix
any issues with the work performed, they failed to repair any work performed.
(Compl., ¶ 32.) Plaintiff paid Defendants approximately $22,950 and has
suffered damages in an amount according to proof, but believed to be at least
$35,000 to complete and repair/correct work performed. (Ibid.)
 
On January 4,
2024, the Court entered Judgment for Plaintiff and against Defendants in the
total sum of $41,395.47.
 
On April 24,
2024, Plaintiff (now Judgment Creditor) filed the instant Application and Order
for Appearance and Examination — Enforcement of Judgment against Defendant Jae
Sung Byon dba Design Reality (now Judgment Debtor). 
 
On April 29,
2024, Plaintiff also filed the instant Application and Order for Appearance and
Examination — Enforcement of Judgment against Defendant Byron Tzul.
 
No opposition or other response
has been filed.
 
ANALYSIS
 
A.     Legal
Standard 
 
“The judgment
creditor may apply to the proper court for an order requiring the judgment
debtor to appear before the court, or before a referee appointed by the court,
at a time and place specified in the order, to furnish information to aid in
enforcement of the money judgment.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 708.110, subd. (a).) 
 
“If the
judgment creditor has not caused the judgment debtor to be examined under this
section during the preceding 120 days, the court shall make the order upon ex
parte application of the judgment creditor.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 708.110, subd.
(b).) 
 
“If the
judgment creditor has caused the judgment debtor to be examined under this
section during the preceding 120 days, the court shall make the order if the
judgment creditor by affidavit or otherwise shows good cause for the order. The
application shall be made on noticed motion if the court so directs or a court
rule so requires. Otherwise, it may be made ex parte.” (Code Civ. Proc., §
708.110, subd. (c).) 
 
“The judgment
creditor shall personally serve a copy of the order on the judgment debtor not
less than 10 days before the date set for the examination. Service shall be
made in the manner specified in Section 415.10. Service of the order creates a
lien on the personal property of the judgment debtor for a period of one year
from the date of the order unless extended or sooner terminated by the court.”
(Code Civ. Proc., § 708.110, subd. (d).) 
 
“The order
shall contain the following statement in 14-point boldface type if printed or
in capital letters if typed: ‘NOTICE TO JUDGMENT DEBTOR. If you fail to appear
at the time and place specified in this order, you may be subject to arrest and
punishment for contempt of court and the court may make an order requiring you
to pay the reasonable attorney’s fees incurred by the judgment creditor in this
proceeding.’” (Code Civ. Proc., § 708.110, subd. (e).)
 
B.     Discussion
 
Judgment Creditor applies for an
order for Judgment Debtor to appear for examination. (Application, Items 1.a.,
4, 5.a.) The Application form used is Judicial Council Form AT-138/EJ-125, and
it includes the statutorily-required notice. (Code Civ.
Proc., § 708.110, subd. (e).) Judgment Creditor has a judgment against Judgment
Debtor, and Judgment Creditor has not applied to have Judgment Debtor appear
within the last 120 days. (Code Civ. Proc., § 708.110, subds. (a), (b).) 
 
The Court GRANTS Judgment Creditor’s
Applications and Orders for Appearance and Examination — Enforcement of
Judgment against Judgment Debtors Jae Sung Byon dba Design Reality and Byron Tzul.  
 
Judgment Creditor shall file proof
of service no less than 72 hours in advance of the next hearing.  ¿ 
 
C.    
Conclusion

 
Judgment Creditor’s
Application and Order for Appearance and Examination — Enforcement of Judgment
against Judgment Debtors Jae Sung Byon
dba Design Reality and Byron Tzul is GRANTED.  
 
Judgment Creditor shall
file proof of service no less than 72 hours in advance of the next hearing.