 Case Number:  23STCV22314    Hearing Date:   June 14, 2024    Dept:  73 6/14/2024
Dept. 73
Hon. Rolf
Treu, Judge presiding 
 
CUFT LLC v. THE ELITE FASHION GROUP,
INC. (23STCV22314)
 
Counsel for
Plaintiff/moving party:  Farah Tabibkhoei
(Dominium Law, APC)
Counsel for Defendant/moving
party:  Moses Bardavid (Law Offices of
Moses S. Bardavid)
 
DEMURRER TO FIRST AMENDED COMPLAINT (filed 03/05/24)
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 
The demurrer to Plaintiff’s first
cause of action is OVERRULED.
 
The demurrer to Plaintiff’s second,
third, fourth, fifth and sixth causes of action is SUSTAINED with 20 days leave
to amend. 
 
Defendant’s
motion to strike punitive damages is GRANTED.
 
BACKGROUND
 
On September
15, 2023, Plaintiff Cuft LLC (“Cuft” or “Plaintiff”) filed this action against
Defendant The Elite Fashion Group, Inc. (“TEFG” or “Defendant”).
 
On December
7, 2023, Plaintiff filed a First Amended Complaint (“FAC”) alleging causes of
action for (1) breach of contract, (2) negligent misrepresentation, (3) intentional
misrepresentation, (4) fraudulent concealment, (5) violation of California’s
Unfair Competition Law, and (6) unjust enrichment. 
 
The FAC
alleges the following. Plaintiff, a fashion apparel company, contracted with Defendant
to manufacture women’s underwear using 100% hemp fabric, and provide the fabric
to Plaintiff to test the material. Defendant made false promises and
representations regarding the garments’ material and composition, stating it
would make the material available for independent testing, and deliver the
product within weeks to induce Plaintiff to pay Defendant tens of thousands of
dollars. Plaintiff justifiably relied and paid Defendant $90,000. Defendant
failed to manufacture the women’s undergarments according to Plaintiff’s
specifications or provide the fabric for testing, concealed that the samples
were defective, and failed to deliver the product at all or return the monies
paid.
On March 5,
2024, Defendant filed a Demurrer and Motion to Strike portions of the FAC, arguing:
·      
Each cause of action fails to state
facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action
o  
First cause of action for breach of
contract fails because: the contracts attached to the FAC don’t include the
terms Plaintiff alleges, Plaintiff must allege separate causes of action for
separate contracts, and Defendant’s signature is not on any of the contracts
o  
Plaintiff’s fraud claims all fail
because Plaintiff does not allege fraud with the required specificity. The
economic loss rule also bars Plaintiff’s causes of action. 
·      
Each cause of action fails for uncertainty
·      
Defendant moves to strike references to punitive damages in the
FAC
Plaintiff filed an opposition,
arguing that each cause of action sufficiently states facts to constitute a
cause of action. Defendant’s motion to strike punitive damages because
Plaintiff has adequately pled fraud. 
 
Defendant
did not file a reply.
ANALYSIS
 
A.     Legal
Standard for Demurrer
 
A demurrer
tests the sufficiency of whether the complaint states a cause of action. (Hahn
v. Mirda (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747.) When considering demurrers,
courts read the allegations liberally and in context—any defects must be
apparent on the face of the pleading or via proper judicial notice. (Donabedian
v. Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994.) “A demurrer tests the
pleading alone, and not the evidence or facts alleged.” (E-Fab, Inc. v.
Accountants, Inc. Servs. (2007) 153 Cal.App.4th 1308, 1315.) As such, the
court assumes the truth of the complaint’s properly pleaded or implied factual
allegations. (Id.) The only issue a demurrer is concerned with is
whether the complaint, as it stands, states a cause of action. (Hahn,
supra, 147 Cal.App.4th at p. 747.)
 
B.     Meet and
Confer Requirement 
 
“Before filing a demurrer pursuant to
this chapter, the demurring party shall meet and confer in person or by
telephone with the party who filed the pleading that is subject to demurrer for
the purpose of determining whether an agreement can be reached that would
resolve the objections to be raised in the demurrer.” (Code Civ. Proc., §
430.41, subd. (a).)  
 
Here, counsel for Defendant submitted a declaration stating
he met and conferred with Plaintiff by telephone on January 9, 2023. (Bardavid
Decl., ¶ 6.) The Court finds
the moving party has satisfied its meet and confer obligation. 
 
C.     First Cause
of Action: Breach of Contract
 
To state a cause of action for breach of
contract, Plaintiff must be able to establish “(1) the existence of the
contract, (2) plaintiff’s performance or excuse for nonperformance, (3)
defendant’s breach, and (4) the resulting damages to the plaintiff.”  (Oasis West Realty, LLC v. Goldman (2011)
51 Cal.4th 811, 821.)
 
If a breach of contract claim “is based on
alleged breach of a written contract, the terms must be set out verbatim in the
body of the complaint or a copy of the written agreement must be attached and
incorporated by reference.”  (Harris
v. Rudin, Richman & Appel (1999) 74 Cal.App.4th 299, 307.)  In some circumstances, a plaintiff may also
“plead the legal effect of the contract rather than its precise language.”  (Construction Protective Services, Inc. v.
TIG Specialty Ins. Co. (2002) 29 Cal.4th 189, 198-99.)
 
The FAC
alleges that that “on or about October 12, 2022, Cuft entered into a
Development Agreement with TEFG for the manufacture of eco-friendly, disposable
underwear designed by Cuft.” (FAC, ¶ 21.) On May 18, 2023, Cuft entered the
Production Agreement with TEFG. Pursuant to the Production Agreement, Cuft
provided purchase orders to TEFG with instructions and specifications for
production of the undergarments, paying for the production in full. (Ibid.)
Pursuant to the parties’ agreements, TEFG agreed to manufacture 9,000 panties,
made of 100% hemp, comprised of three different shades and two different styles
in sizes ranging from XS to XXL. TEFG agreed to provide Cuft the materials used
for the undergarments so that Cuft could test and verify the composition of the
materials used, before beginning mass production. (FAC, ¶ 22.) TEFG breached
the agreements by failing to manufacture the undergarments (including
prototypes and pre-production samples) according to Cuft’s approvals and
specifications (i.e., 100% hemp fabric, pattern, and composition), failing to
deliver fabric swatches for testing before mass production, failing to adhere
to quality control processes resulting in sewing and dyeing defects (i.e.,
color bleeding), and causing unreasonable delays in the production process. (FAC,
¶ 24.) Plaintiff attached the Development Agreement and Production Agreement to
the FAC. (FAC, Exs. 1 & 2.) 
 
Defendant
argues that Plaintiff hasn’t adequately pled a breach of contract cause of
action. First, Defendant asserts the agreements do not specify that Plaintiff
ordered “9,000 panties” and the attached agreements do not contain the
signatures of any representative of Defendant. 
 
However, the Production
Agreement states that Plaintiff would need to submit purchase orders with the
“style name or number for each style” including “quantities, With exact
detailed instructions of each size, style and color or print, plus all other
applicable documents.” (FAC, Ex. 2, p. 1.) Plaintiff alleges in the FAC that pursuant
to the agreement, Plaintiff submitted this information to Defendant who failed
to follow instructions, deliver the products or return the money Plaintiff
paid. (FAC, ¶¶ 13-17.) Thus, the Court finds it sufficient that Plaintiff
alleges these facts. Further, although Defendant did not sign the attached
agreement, it is sufficient that Plaintiff alleges Defendant entered these
agreements. (FAC, ¶¶ 9, 12.) (See Crosstalk Productions, Inc. v. Jacobson,
65 Cal. App. 4th 631, 635 (1998) (stating demurrer is not the appropriate
procedure for determining the truth of disputed facts).
 
Defendant
also argues the first cause of action fails because the breaches of different
contracts must be alleged as separate causes of action. However, the Court does
not find Defendant’s argument persuasive as it appears both agreements pertain
to the same order that Plaintiff alleges was breached. Defendant has not shown
that the alleged breach of the agreements warrants two distinct causes of
action. 
 
Accordingly,
the first cause of action is OVERRULED. 
 
A.     Second Cause
of Action: Negligent Misrepresentation
 
The elements of a cause of action for negligent
misrepresentation include “[m]isrepresentation of a past or existing material fact,
without reasonable ground for believing it to be true, and with intent to
induce another’s reliance on the fact misrepresented; ignorance of the truth
and justifiable reliance on the misrepresentation by the party to whom it was
directed; and resulting damage.”  (Hydro-Mill
Co., Inc. v. Hayward, Tilton & Rolapp Ins. Associates, Inc. (2004) 115
Cal.App.4th 1145, 1154, cleaned up.)  The
facts constituting the alleged fraud must be alleged factually and specifically
as to every element of fraud, as the policy of “liberal construction” of the
pleadings will not ordinarily be invoked. 
(Lazar v. Superior Court (1996) 12 Cal.4th 631, 645.)  To properly allege fraud against a
corporation, the plaintiff must plead the names of the persons allegedly making
the false representations, their authority to speak, to whom they spoke, what
they said or wrote, and when it was said or written.  (Tarmann v. State Farm Mut. Auto. Ins. Co.
(1991) 2 Cal.App.4th 153, 157.)
 
“California
courts have recognized a cause of action for negligent misrepresentation, i.e.,
a duty to communicate accurate information, in two circumstances.  The first situation arises where providing
false information poses a risk of and results in physical harm to person or
property.  The second situation arises
where information is conveyed in a commercial setting for a business
purpose.”  (Friedman v. Merck &
Co. (2003) 107 Cal.App.4th 454, 477.)
 
Defendant demurs to this cause of
action arguing that the FAC fails to state facts sufficient to constitute a
cause of action and that the economic loss rule bars this cause of action.
 
a.     Economic Loss
Rule
 
Under the
economic loss rule, a purchaser of a product that does not live up to the
buyer’s expectations can only recover in contract and not tort, “unless [the
purchaser] can demonstrate harm above and beyond a broken contractual promise.”
(Food Safety Net Services v. Eco Safe Systems USA, Inc. (2012) 209
Cal.App.4th 1118, 1130 (quoting Robinson Helicopter Company, Inc. v. Dana
Corporation (2004) 34 Cal.4th 979, 988).) A tort claim for fraud must be
sufficiently independent from a breach of contract claim for which the
plaintiff suffered economic loss. (Robinson Helicopter, supra, 34
Cal.4th at 991.) Thus, in order to plead around the economic loss rule, a party
must plead the existence of a duty that arises independent of any contractual
duty and independent injury, other than economic loss, that arises from the
breach of that duty. (Robinson Helicopter, supra, 34 Cal.4th at
988-91.)  
 
As to an
independent duty, fraudulent inducement of the contract is one means by which
California law recognizes the existence of a duty independent of the duties
imposed by the contract. (See Erlich v. Menezes (1999) 21 Cal.4th 543,
551-52.) Fraud in the inducement occurs where a party’s assent to a contract is
obtained through “conscious misrepresentation, or concealment, or
non-disclosure of a material fact which induces the innocent party to enter the
contract.” (Odorizzi v. Bloomfield School Dist. (1966) 246 Cal.App.2d
123, 128; see also Civ. Code, § 1572.) 
 
As to an
independent injury, “[e]conomic loss consists of ‘damages for inadequate value,
costs of repair and replacement of the defective product or consequent loss of
profits—without any claim of personal injury or damages to other property’” (Robinson
Helicopter, supra, 34Cal.4th at 988 (quoting Jimenez v. Superior
Court (2002) 29 Cal.4th 473, 482).) 
 
The FAC
alleges that Defendant’s CEO, Mr. Khoda, represented to Plaintiff’s CEO, Ms.
Fitzpatrick, orally and in writing that Defendant would manufacture eco-friendly underwear according to Cuft’s
instructions, at competitive pricing, and that Cuft would receive guidance
through the manufacturing process by a dedicated consultant. (FAC, ¶ 28.)
However, the FAC alleges these representations were false. (Ibid.)  The FAC further alleges “Mr. Khoda
represented to Ms. Fitzpatrick that the development phase (including
development of the prototype, sourcing of fabrics and trims, pre-production
samples, and final fit samples) would be completed within 2-6 weeks. Mr. Khoda
further represented that the production phase would be completed within 6-8
weeks. Mr. Khoda also represented that the photoshoot samples would be
delivered to Cuft in time for Cuft’s fashion photoshoot (originally scheduled
for June 2023) and that the final product would be delivered in time for Cuft’s
product launch (originally scheduled for July 2023.” (FAC, ¶ 31.) The FAC also
alleges Defendant “made these aforementioned misrepresentations without reasonable
grounds to believe they were true, with the intent to induce Cuft’s reliance on
the misrepresentations. (FAC, ¶ 33.) Cuft justifiably relied on these
misrepresentations and paid Defendant approximately $90,000.00 for the
development and production of compostable, hemp undergarments. (FAC, ¶ 34.)
 
However, Plaintiff
has not alleged an injury or damages different than those resulting from the
breach of contract. Plaintiff does not address this argument in its opposition.
Punitive damages are awarded
to a party who suffers “actual injury.” (Fullington v. Equilon Enterprises,
LLC (2012) 210 Cal.App.4th 667, 685.) This thus does not confer an
independent injury. Without
an actual injury to Plaintiff’s person or property, Plaintiff’s only injury is
that arising from the breach of contract itself.
 
Plaintiff’s second cause of action is barred by
the economic loss rule. Accordingly, Defendant’s demurrer on these grounds is SUSTAINED
with leave to amend.
 
D.     Third and
Fourth Causes of Action: Intentional Misrepresentation and Fraudulent
Concealment
 
“The elements of a cause of action for intentional
misrepresentation are (1) a misrepresentation, (2) with knowledge of its
falsity, (3) with the intent to induce another’s reliance on the
misrepresentation, (4) actual and justifiable reliance, and (5) resulting
damage.”  (Daniels v. Select Portfolio
Servicing, Inc. (2016) 246 Cal.App.4th 1150, 1166.)  The facts constituting the alleged fraud must
be alleged factually and specifically as to every element of fraud, as the
policy of “liberal construction” of the pleadings will not ordinarily be invoked.  (Lazar v. Superior Court (1996) 12
Cal.4th 631, 645.)
 
To properly allege fraud against a corporation,
the plaintiffs must plead the names of the persons allegedly making the false
representations, their authority to speak, to whom they spoke, what they said
or wrote, and when it was said or written. 
(Tarmann v. State Farm Mut. Auto. Ins. Co. (1991) 2 Cal.App.4th
153, 157.)
 
Defendant also demurs to both
causes of action arguing that the FAC fails to state facts sufficient to
constitute a cause of action and that the economic loss rule bars both causes
of action.
 
a.     Economic Loss
Rule
 
As
discussed above, the economic loss rule generally bars a tort action in the
absence of personal injury or physical damage to other property. 
 
However,
courts have found that fraudulent inducement is a noted exception to the
economic loss rule. (Robinson, supra, 34 Cal.4th at pp.989-990, [“Tort
damages have been permitted in contract cases where a breach of duty
directly causes physical injury [citation]; for breach of the covenant of good
faith and fair dealing in insurance contracts [citation]; for wrongful
discharge in violation of fundamental public policy [citation]; or where the
contract was fraudulently induced. [Citation.]”, [bold added].)  
 
The
court in Robinson noted that the focus on intentional conduct served to
preserve the statutory distinction between tort and contract remedies. (Robinson,
supra, 34 Cal.4th at p. 990) A tort claim for fraud must be sufficiently
independent from a breach of contract claim for which the plaintiff suffered
economic loss. (Id. at p. 991). However, “[t]ort damages have been
permitted in contract cases where a breach of duty directly causes physical
injury [Citation]; for breach of the covenant of good faith and fair dealing in
insurance contracts [Citation}; for wrongful discharge in violation of
fundamental public policy [Citation]; or where the contract was fraudulently
induced. [Citation.] In each of these cases, the duty that gives rise to tort
liability is either completely independent of the contract or arises from
conduct which is both intentional and intended to harm.” (Erlich v. Menezes (1999)
21 Cal.4th 543, 551–552.) Thus, in order to plead around the economic loss
rule, a party must plead (1) the existence of a duty that arises independent of
any contractual duty and (2) independent injury, other than economic loss, that
arises from the breach of that duty. (Robinson, supra, 34 Cal.4th
at pp. 988–991.) 
 
As
to an independent duty, fraudulent inducement of the contract is one means by
which California law recognizes the existence of a duty independent of the
duties imposed by the contract. (See Erlich, supra, 21 Cal.4th at pp.
551–552.) Fraud in the inducement occurs where a party’s assent to a contract
is obtained through “conscious misrepresentation, or concealment, or
non-disclosure of a material fact which induces the innocent party to enter the
contract.” (Odorizzi v. Bloomfield School Dist. (1966) 246 Cal.App.2d
123, 128; see also Civ. Code, § 1572.) 
 
As
to an independent injury, “[e]conomic loss consists of ‘damages for inadequate
value, costs of repair and replacement of the defective product or consequent
loss of profits—without any claim of personal injury or damages to other
property’” (Robinson, supra, 34 Cal.4th at p. 988 [quoting Jimenez
v. Superior Court (2002) 29 Cal.4th 473, 482].) However, where a party is
fraudulently induced to a contract, allegations that as a result of the
fraudulent inducement the induced party was exposed to potential liability may
be sufficiently independent to avoid being barred by the economic loss rule.
(See Robinson, supra, 34 Cal.4th at p. 993.) 
 
In
Robinson, the plaintiff manufactured helicopters, and defendant
manufactured a “sprag clutch,” a helicopter safety mechanism, for plaintiff. (Id.
at p. 985.) As an aircraft manufacturer, plaintiff was required to obtain a
“type certification” from the Federal Aviation Administration. (Ibid.)
This freezes the design as the date it was issued and requires that any
aircraft made under that certificate must be produced exactly in accordance
with that certificate; any changes must be first submitted and approved by the
Federal Aviation Administration. (Ibid.) Pursuant to the type
certification that the plaintiff had obtained from the Federal Aviation
Administration, the sprag clutch had to be a specific hardness. (Ibid.)
For twelve years, the defendant produced the sprag clutches at the required
hardness but in July of 1996 changed the process to a higher level of hardness.
(Ibid.) However, the defendant continued to provide written certificates
to plaintiff with every delivery of the sprag clutch that the clutches had been
manufactured in conformance with the plaintiff’s written specifications, which
prohibited unapproved changes in the manufacturing process. (Id. at
p.986.) This resulted in a significantly higher rate of failure of the sprag
clutch. (Ibid.) “Fortunately, these clutch failures did not result in
any helicopter accident and there were no incidents of injury or property
damage that were caused by any clutch defect or failure, nor did any of the
defective clutches cause any damage to other parts of the helicopters in which
they had been installed.”  (Ibid.)  However, the plaintiff was
ultimately required by the Federal Aviation Administration and its British
equivalent to recall and replace all of the faulty clutch assembles, which were
made in part by the faulty sprag clutches with the higher hardness.  (Ibid.) 
 
At
the trial court, the jury found in favor of the plaintiff for its claim of
breach of contract and fraud and awarded punitive damages.  (Id. at
p.987.)  The Court Appeal affirmed the breach of contract action but found
that the fraud claim was barred by the economic loss rule and reversed the
punitive award damages.  (Id. at p.988.)  On certiorari, the
Supreme Court disagreed, reversing the Court of Appeal and affirming the trial
court and found that the economic loss rule did not bar Plaintiff’s claim for
damages.  (Id. at p.994.) The Court concluded that both an
independent duty and in independent injury existed.  
 
By
issuing false certificates of conformance, [the defendant] unquestionably made
affirmative representations that [the plaintiff] justifiably relied on to its
detriment. But for [the defendant’s] affirmative misrepresentations by
supplying the false certificates of conformance, [the plaintiff] would not have
accepted delivery and used the nonconforming clutches over the course of
several years, nor would it have incurred the cost of investigating the cause
of the faulty clutches. Accordingly, [the defendant’s] tortious conduct was
separate from the breach itself, which involved [the defendant’s] provision of
the nonconforming clutches. In addition, [the defendant’s] provision of faulty
clutches exposed [the plaintiff] to liability for personal damages if a
helicopter crashed and to disciplinary action by the FAA. Thus, [the
defendant’s] fraud is a tort independent of the breach. (Robinson, 34
Cal.4th at 991 [emphasis added].) 
 
The
Supreme Court clarified that “[its] holding [was] narrow in scope and limited
to a defendant’s affirmative misrepresentations on which a plaintiff relies and
which expose a plaintiff to liability for personal damages independent of the
plaintiff’s economic loss.” (Id. at p. 993.) 
 
Here,
while the FAC alleges that Defendant made affirmative misrepresentations on
which Plaintiff relied, Plaintiff does not allege that it was exposed to
liability for personal damages independent of the Plaintiff’s economic loss. 
 
Accordingly,
Defendant’s demurrer to the third and fourth causes of action are SUSTAINED
with leave to amend based on the economic loss rule. 
 
B.     Fifth Cause
of Action: Violation of California’s Unfair Competition Law
 
Defendant
contends that the fifth cause of action for unfair competition fails because
Plaintiff fails to identify any unfair, unlawful, or fraudulent conduct. 
 
The purpose
of the California’s Unfair Competition Law (“UCL”) “is to protect both
consumers and competitors by promoting fair competition in commercial markets
for goods and services. [Citation.]”¿(Kasky v. Nike, Inc.¿(2002) 27
Cal.4th 939, 949.)  Thus, the UCL prohibits unlawful, unfair or fraudulent
business acts or practices.¿ (Bus. & Prof. Code, § 17200.)¿ “The
Legislature intended this ‘sweeping language’ to include ‘anything that can
properly be called a business practice and that at the same time is forbidden
by law.’” (Bank of the West v. Sup. Ct. (1992) 2 Cal.4th 1254,
1266.)  “A plaintiff alleging unfair business practices under these
statutes must state with reasonable particularity the facts supporting the
statutory elements of the violation.” (Khoury v. Maly's of California, Inc. (1993)
14 Cal.App.4th 612, 619.) 
 
“Because the
statute is framed in the disjunctive, a business practice need only meet one of
the three criteria to be considered unfair competition.”  (Durell v.
Sharp Healthcare (2010) 183 Cal.App.4th 1350, 1359.)  Section 17200’s
“unlawful” prong “borrows violations of other laws ... and makes those unlawful
practices actionable under the UCL.”  (Klein v. Chevron U.S.A., Inc.
(2012) 202 Cal.App.4th 1342, 1383.)  “[V]irtually any law or
regulation—federal or state, statutory or common law—can serve as [a] predicate
for a ... [section] 17200 ‘unlawful’ violation.’ ”  (Ibid.) 
“A business practice is “fraudulent” within the meaning of section 17200 if it
is “likely to deceive the public.”  (Id. at p.1380.) “‘A business
practice is unfair within the meaning of the UCL if it violates established
public policy or if it is immoral, unethical, oppressive or unscrupulous and
causes injury to consumers which outweighs its benefits.’ [Citation.]”  (Nolte
v. Cedars-Sinai Medical Center (2015) 236 Cal.App.4th 1401, 1407–1408.) 
The determination of whether a business practice is unfair involves an
examination of that practice’s impact on its alleged victim, balanced against
the reasons, justifications, and motives of the alleged wrongdoer.  (Ibid.) 
In brief, the court must weigh the utility of the defendant's conduct against
the gravity of the harm to the alleged victim.  (Nolte, Supra,
236 Cal.App.4th at pp. 1407–1408; Cf. Durell v. Sharp Healthcare, supra,
183 Cal.App.4th at 1365 [“[u]nfair” business practices are those which offend
an “established public policy” that is tethered to “specific constitutional,
statutory, or regulatory provisions”]; Morgan v. AT & T Wireless
Services, Inc. (2009) 177 Cal.App.4th 1235, 1254–1255.) 
 
Here, only
the claim for breach of contract remain.  A breach of contract in turn may
form the predicate for a UCL claim, “ ‘provided it also constitutes conduct
that is “unlawful, or unfair, or fraudulent.” ’ [Citations.]”  (Arce v.
Kaiser Foundation Health Plan, Inc. (2010) 181 Cal.App.4th 471, 489
[quoting Puentes v. Wells Fargo Home Mortgage, Inc. (2008) 160
Cal.App.4th 638, 645.)  No other unlawful, fraudulent, or unfair conduct
is identified.  
 
Accordingly,
Defendant’s demurrer to the fourth cause of action is SUSTAINED with leave to
amend.
 
C.     Sixth Cause
of Action: Unjust Enrichment
 
Defendant argues that Plaintiff’s sixth cause of
action fails because unjust enrichment cannot be pled as an independent cause
of action.
 
California courts have held there
is no freestanding cause of action for “restitution.” (Melchior v. New Line Productions, Inc. (2003) 106
Cal.App.4th 779, 793.) Common law principles of restitution require a party to
return a benefit when the retention of such benefit would unjustly enrich the
recipient; a typical cause of action involving such remedy is “quasi-contract.”
(McBride v. Boughton (2004) 123 Cal.App.4th 379,
388–389; see also Federal Deposit Ins. Corp. v. Dintino
(2008) 167 Cal.App.4th 333, 346, 84 Cal.Rptr.3d 38 [“Whether termed unjust
enrichment, quasi-contract, or quantum meruit, the equitable remedy of
restitution when unjust enrichment has occurred ‘is an obligation (not a true contract [citation] ) created by
the law without regard to the intention of the parties, and is designed to
restore the aggrieved party to his or her former position by return of the
thing or its equivalent in money’ ”].)
 
Defendant does not appear to dispute that
Plaintiff is free to seek restitution under principals of unjust enrichment
through its other recognized causes of action. However, Defendant argues
Plaintiff cannot seek this relief through its own independent cause of action. As
the court in McBride v. Boughton (2004) 123 Cal. App. 4th 379, 387 stated,
“[u]njust
enrichment is not a cause of action, however, or even a remedy, but rather a
general principle, underlying various legal doctrines and remedies.” Therefore, the Court finds that
Plaintiff’s sixth cause of action for unjust enrichment cannot be pled as an
independent cause of action. 
 
Thus,
the demurrer to the sixth cause of action is SUSTAINED with leave to amend.
 
D.     Uncertainty
 
In addition, Defendant argues the first, second,
third, fourth, fifth and sixth causes of action fail for lack of certainty.
“[D]emurrers for uncertainty are disfavored, and are granted only if the
pleading is so incomprehensible that a defendant cannot reasonably
respond.”  (Mahan v. Charles W. Chan Ins. Agency, Inc. (2017) 14
Cal.App.5th 848, fn. 3.)  Since Defendant could address each of these
causes of action, it undermines their uncertainty argument.  Therefore,
Defendant’s demurrers based upon uncertainty are overruled.   
 
E.     Motion to
Strike
 
A motion to
strike lies only where the pleading has irrelevant, false or improper matter,
or has not been drawn or filed in conformity with laws. (Civ. Proc. Code §
436.) The grounds for moving to strike must appear on the face of the pleading
or by way of judicial notice. (Id. § 437.) The adequacy of a claim for punitive
damages is properly tested by a motion to strike. (Grieves v. Superior Court (1984) 157 Cal.App.3d 159, 164.) 
 
Defendant requests the Court to strike
all allegations of punitive damages as follows:
·       FAC, page 11,
lines 27-28: “For punitive damages”
 
The adequacy of a claim for punitive damages is properly tested by a motion
to strike. (Grieves v. Superior Court (1984)
157 Cal.App.3d 159, 164.) Civil Code section 3294, subdivision (a) authorizes
the recovery of punitive damages where the defendant has been guilty of
oppression, fraud, or malice, express or implied. Malice means conduct which is
intended by the defendant to cause injury to the plaintiff or despicable
conduct which is carried on by the defendant with a willful and conscious
disregard of the rights or safety of others. (Civ. Code, § 3294, subd. (c)(1).)
Oppression is despicable conduct that subjects a person to cruel and unjust
hardship in conscious disregard of that person’s rights. (Id., subd. (c)(2).) Fraud means an intentional misrepresentation,
deceit, or concealment of a material fact known to the defendant with the
intention on the party of the defendant of thereby depriving a person of
property or legal rights or otherwise causing injury. (Id., subd. (c)(3).) 
 
As discussed
above, only the claim for breach of contract remain. Plaintiff’s causes of action for
intentional misrepresentation and fraudulent concealment fail. Plaintiff has
failed to allege fraud, malice or oppression. Punitive damages are only permitted “[i]n an action for the breach
of an obligation not arising from contract.” (Cal Civ Code § 3294(a).) Therefore,
Plaintiff has not set forth allegations that would warrant punitive damages.
 
Accordingly, Defendant’s motion to
strike punitive damages is GRANTED.
 
DISPOSITION

 
The demurrer
to Plaintiff’s first cause of action is OVERRULED.
 
The demurrer
to Plaintiff’s second, third, fourth, fifth and sixth causes of action is
SUSTAINED with 20 days leave to amend. 
 
Defendant’s motion to strike punitive
damages is GRANTED.