  Case Number:  23SMCV02418    Hearing Date:   June 28, 2024    Dept:  N TENTATIVE RULINGDefendant BHG Consulting Group’s Motion to Quash Service of Summons is taken off calendar.Defendant BHG Consulting Group to give notice. REASONINGCode of Civil Procedure section 418.10, subdivision (a)(1), provides that a defendant may move to quash service of summons on the ground of lack of jurisdiction of the court over him. Specially Appearing Defendant BHG Consulting Group (“Defendant”) moves to quash service of the summons and complaint upon it on the ground that Plaintiff Wilshire Quinn Income Fund Reit, LLC (“Plaintiff”) failed to serve Defendant in a code-complaint manner.The proof of service of summons filed on January 29, 2024, indicates that Defendant was served at 1319 Dorothy Drive, Apartment 105, in Glendale on January 21, 2024, at 9:10 a.m. by substituted service upon Rafael “Doe,” and the documents were mailed thereafter. The proof of service is signed by a registered California process server, who includes a declaration of diligence demonstrating nine attempts at personal service. The declaration of diligence indicates that the process server first tried the address at 1316 North Columbus Avenue, Apartment 105, in Glendale, before trying a second address at 1319 Dorothy Drive in Glendale. The various attempts indicate that no one was home or no one answered the door until the eighth attempt, when a female occupant stated the subject was not home, and on the final and ninth attempt, the same person stated she would get the subject, and a man stated he was authorized to accept and identified himself as Rafael.Defendant argues that the purported service is defective because there is no apartment at 1319 Dorothy Drive, Defendant does not and has not operated from 1319 Dorothy Drive, and no one other than Ross Tarkhan is authorized to accept service on behalf of Defendant. Notably, as of May 1, 2024, Defendant is a suspended corporation. (Opp’n, Mouradian Decl. ¶ 3, Ex. A.) It is axiomatic that “a corporation that has had its powers suspended lacks legal capacity to prosecute or defend a civil action during its suspension.” (Tabarrejo v. Superior Court (2014) 232 Cal.App.4th 849, 861, quotation marks omitted.) For that reason, Defendant BHG Consulting Group’s Motion to Quash Service of Summons is taken off calendar. Defendant may renew its motion when it revives its corporate status. The Court will not issue an advisory opinion here as to Defendant’s remaining arguments and will address the merits of Defendant’s motion if it is refiled at a later date.