 Case Number:  22STCV22643    Hearing Date:   November 5, 2024    Dept:  39  TENTATIVE RULING
 



DEPT:


39




HEARING DATE:


November 5, 2024




CASE NUMBER:


22STCV22643




MOTION:  


Motion to Compel Deposition




MOVING PARTY:


Defendant Harrison Kordestani




OPPOSING PARTY:


Plaintiff JJ Zhang



 
MOTIONS
            Defendant
Harrison Kordestani (“Defendant”) moves to compel Plaintiff JJ Zhang
(“Plaintiff”) to appear at his deposition. 
Plaintiff opposes the motion.
ANALYSIS
Pursuant to Code
of Civil Procedure section 2025.450, subdivision (a), if a party to the action
fails to testify at deposition after service of a deposition notice and the
party has not served a valid objection to that notice, the party who noticed
the deposition may move for an order to compel the deponent to attend and
testify at the deposition.  Plaintiff is
a party to this action.  As such, he must
appear for the deposition.  The motion is
granted.  
The Court notes Plaintiff
objected to the deposition notice and states Defendant was dilatory in scheduling
the deposition more than two years after the action was file and a few months
before the trial is to take place.  Those
are not valid reasons for Plaintiff not to have made himself available for
deposition.  If Plaintiff sought to avoid
appearing or producing documents on specified topics, Plaintiff was required to
seek a protective order.  (Code Civ.
Proc., § 2025.420.)  Plaintiff did not do
so. The scope of the requested information is not an “error or irregularity” in
the deposition notice, to which Plaintiff could object. (Code Civ. Proc., §
2025.410.)
Defendant seeks
sanctions in this motion.  However, Plaintiff
argues Defendant unilaterally scheduled the deposition with knowledge neither
Plaintiff or his cancel was available on the date it was scheduled; he timely
objected to the deposition; Defendant cancelled the deposition; Plaintiff did
not “fail to appear,” as Defendant claims, and, therefore, Defendant incurred
no costs; and Defendant did not meet and confer to resolve the issues.  In reply, Defendant has countered the
positions Plaintiff has taken with respect to this matter, including indicating
Plaintiff has made no effort to be available for the noticed deposition by offering
dates; rather, Plaintiff has been steadfast in stating his deposition can only
be taken after the scheduled trial in early December.  
Under these
circumstances, the Court finds Plaintiff’s failure to comply with Defendant’s
deposition notice and to be reasonably available for deposition to be an abuse
of the discovery process and awards sanctions, pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure,
section 2023.030, subdivision (a).  Therefore,
the Court imposes sanctions against Plaintiff and his counsel of record, Dominique
Westmoreland, in the amount of $1,260, which represents two hours of attorney
time to prepare the motion and to attend the hearing at $600 per hour, plus the
filing fee.  
CONCLUSION AND ORDER
Defendant’s motion
to compel Plaintiff to appear for deposition is granted.  Plaintiff is to appear for deposition within
30 days of notice of this order, unless Plaintiff stipulates otherwise. The
scope of the deposition is as set forth in Exhibit 2 attached to the
Declaration of John M. Boyko.
Plaintiff and his
counsel of record, Dominique Westmoreland, jointly and severally, are to pay $1,260
in sanctions to Defendant, by and through counsel, within 30 days.
Defendant is
ordered to provide notice of this order and to file proof of service of same.
 