 Case Number:  22STCV33046    Hearing Date:   November 5, 2024    Dept:  39  TENTATIVE RULING 
 



DEPARTMENT


32




HEARING DATE


November 5, 2024




CASE NUMBER


22STCV33046




MOTION


Motion for Terminating Sanctions




MOVING PARTY


Defendants Huge USA, Inc. and Jin Ser Park




OPPOSING PARTY


Plaintiff Nam Suk Park



 
MOTION
Plaintiff Nam Suk
Park (“Plaintiff”) sued Defendants Huge USA, Inc. (“Huge USA”) and Jin Ser Park
(“Park,” collectively, “Defendants”) for wage and hour violations.  Defendants move for terminating sanctions,
or, in the alternative, issue sanctions against Plaintiff.  Plaintiff opposes the motion.  
ANALYSIS
Defendants argue
the Court should impose sanctions due to Plaintiff’s misconduct.  In support of this argument, Defendants cite Stephen
Slesinger, Inc. v. Walt Disney Co. (2007) 155 Cal.App.4th 736 (Slesinger).)  In that case, the Court held a trial court
has inherent power to dismiss an action with prejudice “[w]hen a plaintiff's
deliberate and egregious misconduct in the course of the litigation renders any
sanction short of dismissal inadequate to protect the fairness of the trial.”  (Id., at p. 762.)  The plaintiff in Slesinger illegally
obtained confidential information from the defendant by breaking into dumpster
locations and taking copies of documents. 
(Id., at pp. 767-768.)  The
Court found the plaintiff’s acts, “whether characterized as civil wrongdoing,
criminal wrongdoing, or both,” were “deliberate and egregious—more than
adequate to invoke the court's exercise of its inherent power to dismiss.”  (Id., at p. 768.)
Defendants advance
the testimony of Kyu Chul Shin (“Shin”), a former employee of Huge USA.  At deposition, Shin testified he accessed
Huge USA’s computer system after he no longer worked for Huge USA, and he downloaded
time records for another employee, Luis Rueda, at Plaintiff’s request.  (Declaration of Daniel E. Park, Exhibit B.)  Defendants also submit a declaration from
Shin, which is consistent with his deposition testimony.  (Declaration of Kyu Chul Shin.)  Defendants have, therefore, shown Plaintiff
directed Shin to access Huge USA’s computer system and violate the Comprehensive
Computer Data Access and Fraud Act, thereby committing the civil wrong of
invasion of privacy.  (Pen. Code, § 502, see
Casillas v. Berkshire Hathaway Homestate Ins. Co. (2022) 79 Cal.App.5th
755, 768.)  
The Court finds
this deliberate illegal access of Huge USA’s personal records is sanctionable.  However, the Court concludes dismissal is not
required to vindicate the Court’s authority to regulate this proceeding.  (See Rail Services of America v. State
Compensation Insurance Fund (2003) 110 Cal.App.4th 323, 331[“Dismissal is a
proper sanction to punish the failure to comply with a rule or an order only if
the court’s authority cannot be vindicated through the imposition of a less severe
alternative].)  At this time, the Court would
impose Defendants’ requested sanction to instruct the jury at trial Plaintiff
caused Shin to unlawfully access Huge USA’s business records.  Given this special instruction, the jury may
infer Plaintiff’s testimony on other matters is untrue.  (See e.g., CACI No. 107 [to the extent the
jury believes a witness has not told the truth about something important, it
may choose not to believe anything the witness has said].)   Moreover, if through further discovery Defendants
were to unearth additional evidence Plaintiff engaged in untoward conduct, the
Court would entertain imposing harsher sanctions at trial.  
Defendants contend
the Court should impose sanctions based on spoliation.  “Spoliation is the destruction or significant
alteration of evidence, or the failure to preserve property for another's use
as evidence, in pending or future litigation.”  (Hernandez v. Garcetti
(1998) 68 Cal.App.4th 675, 680.)  Under California law, a party cannot
destroy evidence “in response to a discovery request after litigation has
commenced . . . ,” or “in anticipation of a discovery request.”  (Cedars-Sinai
Medical Center v. Superior Court (1998) 18 Cal.4th 1, 12.)  
In this regard, Defendants
argue Plaintiff failed to produce messages between Plaintiff and Shin.  Defendants do not advance any evidence Plaintiff
intentionally deleted any messages to evade discovery.  Messages are commonly deleted for benign
reasons, such as to free up memory on  cell
phones.  Further, as Defendants concede,
Plaintiff stated in response to discovery Plaintiff changed cell phones and
lost messages.  (Park Decl., Exhibit
C.)  Without more, Defendants have not
demonstrated spoliation.  While
Defendants also advance Shin’s declaration, his statements about Plaintiff’s
deletion of their message history (Declaration of Kyu Chul Shin, ¿ 5) are vague
and lack adequate foundation, despite Shin’s assertion Plaintiff informed him
of the deletion.  Additionally, Shin
admits the messages on his cell phone were lost when he changed cell phones himself
(id., ¿ 6); therefore, lending some support to Plaintiff’s similar
contention in that vein.  For those reasons,
the Court declines to rely on Shin’s testimony in support of Defendants’ position
on this point.  
Defendants are
ordered to provide notice of this order and to file proof of service of same.
 