 Case Number:  22STCV01046    Hearing Date:   March 8, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


March
  8, 2024




CASE NUMBER:


22STCV01046




MOTIONS:  


Motion
  to Compel Further Responses to Demand for Production of Documents, Set Two




MOVING PARTY:


Plaintiff Martha Y. Cash




OPPOSING PARTY:


Defendant
  Smart & Final Stores, LLC



 
 
BACKGROUND
 
On January 10, 2022, Plaintiff Martha Y. Cash (“Plaintiff”) filed a
complaint against Smart & Final LLC, Smart & Final Stores, LLC, and
Does 1 to 50 for negligence related to a fall. 
 
On October 13, 2023, Plaintiff served Defendant Smart & Final
Stores, LLC (“Defendant”) with Demand for Production of Documents, Set Two.
(Guillen Decl. ¶ 3, Exh. A.) The responses were due on November 14, 2023. (Id.
¶ 3.) Plaintiff asserts she did not grant any extensions to respond. On
November 28, 2023, Plaintiff informed Defendant that responses were late and
demanded responses, without objections, by December 1, 2023. On November 29,
2023, Defendant served responses with objections based on the work product
doctrine and attorney client privilege. Defendant asserted it would seek relief
from the Court for the calendaring mistake that caused the late responses. 
 
No motion for relief from the waiver of objections has been filed.
Plaintiff now moves to compel responses to Demand for Production of Documents,
Set Two, arguing the objections are without merit. Defendant opposes and
Plaintiff replies. 
 
MEET
AND CONFER
 
On January 25, 2024, the parties participated in an informal discovery
conference (“IDC”) pursuant to the Court’s Eighth Amended Standing Order. The
issues were not resolved. Therefore, the meet and confer requirement has been
met. 
 
LEGAL
STANDARD 
 
Code of Civil Procedure section 2031.310(a) provides that
on receipt of a response to a request for production of documents, the
demanding party may move for an order compelling further responses if:¿¿¿ 
¿¿¿ 
(1) A statement of compliance with the demand is
incomplete.¿¿¿ 
(2) A representation of inability to comply is inadequate, incomplete,
or evasive.¿¿¿ 
(3) An objection in the response is without merit or too
general.¿¿¿¿ 
 
“Unless notice of this motion is given within 45 days of
the service of the verified response, or any supplemental verified response, or
on or before any specific later date to which the demanding party and the
responding party have agreed in writing, the demanding party waives any right
to compel a further response to the demand.”¿ (Code Civ. Proc., §
2031.310(c).)¿¿¿¿¿ 
¿ 
The court shall impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7
(commencing with Section 2023.010) against any party, person, or attorney who
unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel further response to a
demand, unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with
substantial justification or that other circumstances make the imposition of
the sanction unjust. (Code Civ. Proc. § 2031.310 (h).)¿¿ 
“If a party
to whom a demand for inspection, copying, testing, or sampling is directed
fails to serve a timely response to it, the following rules shall apply:
(a)   The
party to whom the demand for inspection, copying, testing, or sampling is
directed waives any objection to the demand, including one based on privilege
or on the protection for work product under Chapter 4 (commencing with Section
2018.010). The court, on motion, may relieve that party from this waiver . . .
.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 2031.300(a).) 
 
DISCUSSION
 
Demand
for Production of Documents, Set Two consists of two requests: number 21, and
22. 
 
Number
21 requests: “A copy of the statement provided by PLAINTIFF to YOU RELATING
TO the SUBJECT INCIDENT.” 
 
Number
22 requests: “A copy of the statement provided by Caren Mayes to YOU
RELATING TO the SUBJECT INCIDENT.” 
 
Defendant
responded as follows: “Objection. Any incident report is protected by the
attorney-client privilege and attorney work product doctrine. See, Payless Drug
Stores, Inc. v. Superior Court 54 Cal.App.3d 988 (1976). Moreover, any witness
statements would be incorporated with the confidential incident report.
Furthermore, witness statements are protected by the attorney-client privilege
and attorney work product doctrine. See, Nacht & Lewis Architects, Inc. v.
Superior Court 47 Cal.App.4th 214 (1996). In addition, this has been asked and
answered. The information was previously provided in response to plaintiff’s
demand for production numbers 1-4. Without waiving the aforementioned
objections, defendant responds as follows: Defendant will identify, but not
produce, plaintiff's statement that was incorporated with the confidential
incident report.”
 
Plaintiff argues further responses should be compelled because Defendant
waived all objections by serving late responses. Defendant acknowledges that
the responses were untimely, but asks for relief from waiver of objections
within the opposition brief. However, as the Court indicated at the IDC, such
relief would need to be sought by a noticed motion. (See Code Civ. Proc. §
2031.300 [“The court, on motion, may relieve that party from this
waiver…”] [emphasis added].) To date, no such motion has been filed.[1]
 
Moreover, even if such a motion were to be filed, the objections are
without merit as discussed below.
 
Work
Product Doctrine 
 
Code
of Civil Procedure section 2018.030 states the following:
 
“(a)
A writing that reflects an attorney's impressions, conclusions, opinions, or
legal research or theories is not discoverable under any circumstances.
 
(b)
The work product of an attorney, other than a writing described in subdivision
(a), is not discoverable unless the court determines that denial of discovery
will unfairly prejudice the party seeking discovery in preparing that party's
claim or defense or will result in an injustice.”
 
“[W]itness statements procured by an attorney are not automatically
entitled as a matter of law to absolute work product protection. Instead, the
applicability of absolute protection must be determined case by case. An
attorney resisting discovery of a witness statement based on absolute privilege
must make a preliminary or foundational showing that disclosure would reveal
his or her ‘impressions, conclusions, opinions, or legal research or theories.’
(§ 2018.030, subd. (a).) Upon an adequate showing, the trial court should then
determine, by making an in camera inspection if necessary, whether absolute
work product protection applies to some or all of the material.” (Coito v.
Superior Court (2012) 54 Cal.4th 480, 495–96, 499 [rejecting dicta in Nacht
& Lewis (1996) 47 Cal.App.4th 214, 217 that says: “recorded statements
taken by defendants' counsel would be protected by the absolute work product
privilege because they would reveal counsel's ‘impressions, conclusions,
opinions, or legal research or theories'....”].) 
 
However, “witness statements procured by an attorney are entitled as a
matter of law to at least qualified work product protection under section
2018.030, subdivision (b).” (Id. at 496.) “A party seeking disclosure
[of material protected by qualified work product] has the burden of
establishing that denial of disclosure will unfairly prejudice the party in
preparing its claim or defense or will result in an injustice.” (Id. at
499.) 
 
Attorney-Client
Privilege
 
“The attorney-client privilege is codified in [Evidence Code] sections
950 through 962. The term ‘confidential communication between client and lawyer’
includes ‘information transmitted between a client and his ... lawyer in the
course of that relationship and in confidence....’ (§ 952.) If a ‘confidential
communication between client and lawyer’ exists, the client has a privilege
protecting disclosure (§ 954), and the attorney has an obligation to refuse
disclosure unless otherwise instructed by the client. (§ 955.) While
attorney-client communications are presumed to be confidential (§ 917), the
party claiming the attorney-client privilege as a bar to disclosure has the
burden of showing that the communication sought to be suppressed falls within
the parameters of the privilege.” (Scripps Health v. Superior Court
(2003) 109 Cal.App.4th 529, 533.) 
 
“The landmark case of D.I. Chadbourne, Inc. v. Superior Court
(1964) 60 Cal.2d 723, 36 Cal.Rptr. 468, 388 P.2d 700 (Chadbourne) details
eleven basic principles to be applied in determining whether the
attorney-client privilege exists in a corporate setting. [Citation.] Where . .
. a corporate employer requires that its employees make a report, the privilege
of that report is determined by the employer's purpose in requiring the report.
[Citation.] When the corporate employer has more than one purpose in requiring
the report, the dominant purpose will control. [Citation.]” (Id.) 
 
Analysis
 
As an initial matter, Defendant broadly argues that incident reports
are protected from discovery due to the attorney-client privilege. (Opposition
at p. 7.) However, Plaintiff’s discovery requests do not seek the incident
report. Rather, Plaintiff’s discovery requests seek statements by two
individuals, which may or may not be contained within the incident report. The
mere placement of witness statements in an incident report does not
automatically make the statements themselves subject to the attorney-client
privilege. (See generally D.I. Chadbourne, Inc. v. Superior Court of City
and County of San Francisco (1964) 60 Cal.2d 723 [setting forth principles
to be applied in determining whether a witness’s statement is protected by the
attorney-client privilege]; Wellpoint Health Networks, Inc. v. Superior
Court (1997) 59 Cal.App.4th 110, 119 [“documents prepared independently by
a party, including witness statements, do not become privileged communications
or work product merely because they are turned over to counsel”].) Here, it is
undisputed that neither Plaintiff nor Caren Mayes are employees of Defendant.
The Court finds that the statements are not protected by the attorney-client
privilege.
 
First, as to Plaintiff’s statement, Defendant provides the declaration
of David Godinez, its General Liability Manager: “Following the incident that
is subject of this lawsuit, which occurred on February 1, 2020, a confidential
incident was prepared by employee Joy Reynolds. Plaintiff’s statement at the
time of the incident was incorporated with the confidential incident report.”
(Godinez Decl. ¶ 5.)
 
Defendant provides no facts that the interview would reveal the
impressions, conclusions, opinions, or theories of an attorney. Instead,
Defendant asserts that Plaintiff gave a statement to an employee. Defendant
does not assert that Joy Reynolds was an attorney or was acting on behalf of an
attorney to ask questions that would reveal the attorney’s impressions. Indeed,
there is no indication that any specific questions were asked of Plaintiff.
Defendant bears the burden of making a foundational showing that disclosure
would reveal an attorney’s impressions, conclusions, opinions, or legal
research or theories. Defendant has not met its burden.
 
Second, as to witness Caren Mayes’ statement, Mr. Godinez declares:
“On February 20, 2020, after the Claims Examiner acknowledged representation,
the Claims Examiner sent out a questionnaire prepared to gather facts in
preparation for litigation to witness Caren Mayes. The witness filled out the
questionnaire, and sent it back on March 4, 2020.” (Godinez Decl. ¶ 8.)
 
Again, Defendant provides no facts that the questions on the
questionnaire would reveal the impressions, conclusions, opinions, or theories
of an attorney as to this case. Defendant does not even clarify whether the
questionnaire is a form, or a case-specific questionnaire. Even if it were
case-specific, there are no facts from which the Court can determine that
disclosure would reveal an attorney’s impressions, conclusions, opinions, or
theories.
 
Plaintiff seeks $1,760 against Defendant and its counsel, jointly and
severally, representing an hourly rate of $200 and the $60 filing fee. The
Court finds sanctions are warranted but finds the amount requested to be
excessive, and reduces the amount to $860 (four hours of attorney time plus the
filing fee).  
 
CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
 
Therefore, Plaintiff’s motion to compel further responses to Demand
for Production of Documents, Set Two is GRANTED. Defendant shall provide
verified responses, without objection, and responsive documents within 10 days.

 
The
Court further GRANTS Plaintiff’s request for monetary sanctions against Defendant
and its counsel of record, jointly and severally, in the reduced amount of $860.
Said monetary sanctions are to be paid to counsel for Plaintiff within 30 days
of the date of this order. 
 
Plaintiff shall provide notice of the Court’s ruling and file a proof
of service of such. 
 


