 Case Number:  22STCV04484    Hearing Date:   March 8, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
 
TENTATIVE
RULING 
 



DEPARTMENT


32




HEARING DATE


March
  8, 2024




CASE NUMBER


22STCV04484




MOTIONS


Motion
  to Substitute 




MOVING PARTIES


Plaintiff
  The Estate of Santana B. Holcomb




OPPOSING PARTY


None



 
MOTIONS
 
Plaintiff The Estate of Santana B. Holcomb (“Plaintiff”) moves for an
order pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure Section 377.31, substituting Beatrice
Darcel Burkhalter, decedent Santana B. Holcomb’s daughter, in her capacity as
successor in interest to the deceased Plaintiff, under Code of Civil Procedure
Section 377.11. 
 
ANALYSIS
 
California Code of Civil Procedure
section 377.31 provides that the decedent’s personal representative or, if
none, the decedent’s successor in interest may continue a decedent’s pending
action. (Code Civ. Proc., § 377.30; see Adams v. Superior Court (2011)
196 Cal.App.4th 71, 78-79.) A successor in interest is the beneficiary of the
decedent’s estate or other successor in interest who succeeds to a cause of
action or to a particular item of the property that is the subject of the cause
of action. (Code Civ. Proc., § 377.11.) Section 377.33 provides that the court
in which an action is continued may make any order concerning parties that is
appropriate to ensure proper administration of justice, including the
appointment of the decedent’s successor in interest as a special administrator
or guardian ad litem.  
 
Section 377.32 provides that a
person who seeks to commence such an action as the decedent’s successor in
interest must file an affidavit or declaration providing certain information,
including the decedent’s name, date and place of decedent’s death, and
statements regarding whether the estate has been administered and that the
affiant or declarant is the successor in interest on decedent’s claim. (Id.,
§ 377.32(a).) A certified copy of the decedent’s death certificate must also be
attached to the affidavit or declaration. (Id., § 377.32(c).)
 
            
Plaintiff gives conflicting information in this motion and in the
complaint. According to the complaint filed February 4, 2022, Santana Holcomb
was already alleged to be deceased. (Complaint ¶ 2.) The Complaint was brought
by Cynthia Holcomb, individually and as successor in interest. A motion to
substitute a party as a successor in interest under Code of Civil Procedure
section 377.31 is only applicable where the Plaintiff dies after filing the
action. 
 
However, “[a] cause of action that survives the death of
the person entitled to commence an action or proceeding passes to the
decedent's successor in interest, subject to Chapter 1 (commencing with Section
7000) of Part 1 of Division 7 of the Probate Code, and an action may be
commenced by the decedent's personal representative or, if none, by the
decedent's successor in interest.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 377.30.)  
 
The person who seeks to commence an action or proceeding or
to continue a pending action or proceeding as the decedent's successor in
interest under this article, must execute a declaration pursuant to Code of
Civil Procedure section 377.32. However, this declaration is not required prior
to commencing the action. (Parsons v. Tickner (1995) 31 Cal.App.4th
1513, 1523–24.)  
 
There has been no prior motion to substitute a party as Plaintiff’s
successor in interest. Therefore, to the extent that Plaintiff seeks to
substitute Beatrice Darcel Burkhalter to commence this action, Plainitff set
forth the following facts.
 
Santana B. Holcomb passed away on February 23, 2021. A certified copy
of Plaintiff’s death certificate has been attached. (Bauman Decl. ¶ 5, Exh. A.)
The death certificate states that Cynthia Sue Holcomb, a plaintiff in this
case, was decedent’s spouse and that he was married at the time of death. This
conflicts with information in the motion which states that Santana was single.
(Bauman Decl. ¶ 6.) Moreover, the case caption of the complaint indicates
“Cynthia Holcomb, individually and as Successor-in-Interest to the Estate of
Santana Holcomb.”
 
Beatrice Darcel Burkhalter has filed a declaration, under penalty of
perjury, that she is Plaintiff’s sole successor in interest. Santana Holcomb’s
surviving sons have also submitted declarations giving up rights to be
successors in interest for this case. However, though Beatrice declares that no
other person has a superior right to commence this action, there is no
explanation of plaintiff Cynthia Sue Holcomb, who appears to be Decedent’s
spouse. 
 
Therefore, because Plaintiff has not shown that Beatrice is the sole
successor in interest,[1]  the motion to substitute is denied.  
 
 
CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
 
Therefore, the Court DENIES the motion to substitute Beatrice Darcel
Burkhalter as successor in interest.
 
Moving Party shall give notice of the Court’s orders, and file a proof
of service of such.
 
 


