 Case Number:  23STCP01475    Hearing Date:   August 1, 2024    Dept:  85 
Petitioner-747
N Western Opportunity Owner LLC v. City of Los Angeles et al, 23STCP01475

Tentative
decision on demurrer:  sustained without
leave to amend



            
            
Respondents City of Los Angeles (“City”), Los Angeles City
Council (“City Council”), Los Angeles City Planning Department (“Planning”), Planning
Director Vince Bertoni (“Bertoni”), Los Angeles Department of Building and
Safety (“LADBS”), and LADBS General Manager Osama Younan (“Younan”) (collectively,
“City”) demur to all seven causes of action of the Second Amended Petition (“SAP”)
filed by Petitioner-747 N Western Opportunity Owner LLC. 
            The
court has read and considered the moving papers, opposition,[1]
and reply, and renders the following tentative decision. 
 
            A. Statement of the
Case
            1. Petition
            Petitioner
filed the Petition on May 4, 2023.  The
operative pleading is the SAP, filed on April 12, 2024, against City, and the
Los Angeles County Assessor’s Office and Jeff Prang in his capacity as Assessor
(collectively, “Assessor”).   The SAP
names Neutra Jardinette on Marathon QOZ, LLC (“Neutra”) as Real
Party-in-Interest.  The SAP alleges claims
for mandamus based on a historical property contract, relief under CCP section
526a, mandamus based on California Constitution art. XIII sections 1 and 8, three
counts of declaratory relief, and the California Environmental Quality Act
(“CEQA”).  The SAP alleges in pertinent
part as follows.
            Petitioner
owns real property directly across an alley from the Jardinette Apartments at
5128 W. Marathon St., Los Angeles, CA (“Jardinette Property”).  SAP, ¶16.  Petitioner has paid taxes on real estate in
the City within a year of filing this action.  SAP, ¶16.  
 
            a.
The Jardinette Property 
            The
unlawful conduct at issue pertains in part to the Jardinette Property, the historical
property contract that the Jardinette Property owner and the City entered into on
December 16, 2017 (“Jardinette Contract” or “Contract”), and the City’s failure
to comply with the California Constitution and state and local laws, including CEQA.  SAP, ¶2. 

Architects Richard J. Neutra (“Neutra”) and Rudolph M.
Schindler (“Schindler”) designed and built the four-story Jardinette Property in
1928.  SAP, ¶29.  It has long been recognized for its
outstanding design and historical significance. 
SAP, ¶29.  In 1986, the Jardinette
Property was listed on the National Register of Historic Places.  SAP, ¶30. 
In 1988, the City designated the Jardinette Property as
Historic-Cultural Monument No. 390.  SAP,
¶30.  
            The
Mills Act (Government Code[2]
§50280 et seq.) allows local governments to enter into contracts with
owners of qualified historical properties who actively participate in the
restoration and maintenance of their historical properties and thereby receive
property tax relief.  SAP, ¶32.  
In 1996, the City adopted its Mills Act Historical Property
Program (“Mills Act Program” or “Program”) in Los Angeles Administrative Code
(“LAAC”) sections 19.140, et seq. 
SAP, ¶33.  LAAC section 19.140
allows the City Council to contract with an owner or agent of the owner of any
qualified historical property, as defined in the Mills Act, provided the
contract meets the requirements of sections 50281 and 50282.  SAP, ¶33. 
Pursuant to Article 1.9 of the Revenue and Taxation Code (“R&T
Code”), the Assessor may reassess historical properties that are so restricted
in a way that lowers their property taxes. 
SAP, ¶33.
            In
2017, then Jardinette Property owner CIP Jardinette Holding, LLC (“CIP”)
applied to the City for a reduction in property taxes under the Mills Act and the
LAAC.  SAP, ¶ 34.  The application included a May 15, 2017 Historic
Structure Report identifying the Jardinette Property as an International Style
multi-family dwelling designed by Neutra and Schindler in 1928.  SAP, ¶36. 

            Petitioner
is informed and believes that on July 11, 2017, Chattel Inc. (“Chattel”), an historic
preservation consultant under contract with the City, reviewed CIP’s application
and conducted an onsite inspection.  SAP,
¶38.  On August 17, the City’s Cultural
Heritage Commission (“CHC”) recommended approval of the application, and the
City Council did so.  SAP, ¶¶ 39-40.  
On December 16, 2017, CIP and the City entered into the Jardinette
Contract.  SAP, ¶41, Ex. 1.   The Jardinette
Contract declares the Jardinette Property as an Historic Cultural
Monument.  SAP, ¶41, Ex. 1.  The Contract requires maintenance of the Jardinette
Property in a “superior condition” without dilapidated buildings, walls, or
windows.  SAP, ¶42, Ex. 1.  According to the Jardinette Contract’s
restoration plan (“Plan”), CIP also was required to restore and rehabilitate
the Jardinette Property.  SAP, ¶46.  The Plan includes renovation of the
electrical, plumbing, window repair and replacement, seismic work, interior
walls, roofing, flooring, doors, interior and exterior surfaces, hardscape,
landscape, bathrooms, kitchens, lobby, and fire escapes.  SAP, ¶34, Ex. 1.  The proposed completion year for each project
was either 2018 or 2022.  SAP, ¶ 34, Ex.
1.  
            Pursuant
to the Jardinette Contract, the Assessor specially assessed the Jardinette
Property and awarded the owner a significant annual reduction in property
taxes.  SAP, ¶43.  
The Jardinette Property owner has breached the Jardinette
Contract in multiple ways, and the City had notice of this breach.  SAP, ¶44. 
The owner failed to perform work in accordance with the Secretary of
Interior Standards, maintain the Jardinette Property in superior condition,
rehabilitate the Jardinette Property according to the Plan, meet the represented
rehabilitation date, and maintain the Jardinette Property’s historic
character.  SAP, ¶45. 
            On
October 11, 2022, the City Council approved a motion noting that the Jardinette
Property had significantly deteriorated and had active code enforcement for
unpermitted construction work.  SAP, ¶ 48.  A bolded statement in the City Council’s’ motion
stated that the failure of a Mills Act property owner to preserve, rehabilitate,
and maintain the historical property is both a violation of the Mills contract and
a misappropriation of property tax dollars that could be allocated to greater
community purposes.  SAP, ¶ 49, Ex. 2.  The motion directed Planning and LADBS to prepare
a report in 30 days with recommendations about the Jardinette Property’s existing
condition, whether it was meeting the obligations of the Jardinette Contract,
and what enforcement or termination actions the City should take.   SAP, ¶¶ 49-51, Ex. 2.  
            On
October 14, 2022, Petitioner sent LADBS photographs showing the Jardinette
Property had fallen into great disrepair in breach of the Jardinette Contract’s
provisions.  SAP, ¶52, Ex. 3.  
The City failed and refused to
address the Jardinette Property’s disrepair and violations of the Jardinette
Contract.  SAP, ¶58.  On November 1, Petitioner’s counsel
reiterated to LADBS and the LADBS Commission that Petitioner’s photographs
showed that any work proceeding on the Jardinette Property was not conducted in
accordance with the Jardinette Contract or applicable law.  SAP, ¶54. 
            On
February 9, 2023, Petitioner served California Public Records Act (“CPRA”) requests
on Planning, LADBS, the City Attorney, and the Los Angeles Police Department for
records pertaining to the City Council’s October 2022 motion.  SAP, ¶56. 
None of the produced documents suggests that the City took any action in
compliance with the motion.  SAP, ¶57.  Petitioner is informed and believes that City
staff ignored the City Council’s direction. 
SAP, ¶¶ 57-59.  
            Five
years have passed since the City entered into the Jardinette Contract.  SAP, ¶2. 
The City has failed to inspect the Jardinette Property to ensure
compliance as required by sections 50281 and 50282.  SAP, ¶4.
 
            b.
Mills Act Pattern and Practice
This case also concerns the City’s general violations of Mills
Act requirements for historical properties throughout the City.  SAP, ¶2. 
The City has a longstanding policy and practice of ignoring requirements
of the Mills Act, including the requirement that it conduct certain
inspections.  SAP, ¶ 4.  
In 2020, the City engaged Chattel to review the Mills Act Program.  SAP, ¶61. 
In June 2022, the City released a report titled “Mills Act Program
Assessment and Equity Analysis” (“Mills Report”).  SAP, ¶ 61. 
The Mills Report concluded that the Program fails to meet state law
inspection requirements.  SAP, ¶ 64.  State law requires compliance inspections
every five years for each property, yet the City completes only 25% of the
required inspections annually.  SAP, ¶¶ 54.  Only two City staff members administer the 948
properties in the Program on a part-time basis. 
SAP, ¶ 62.  
            Based
on the Mills Report, Petitioner believes the City has a policy and practice to
ignore or violate Mills Act inspection and other requirements.  SAP, ¶65. 
It has demonstrated a pattern and practice that constitutes an
overarching, quasi-legislative policy in that refuses to comply with mandatory
duties under the Mills Act and other applicable laws.  SAP, ¶65. 
It has a mandatory duty under section 50284 to cancel or enforce
Historic Property contracts where the City Council determines the owner has breached
any condition of the contract but has failed to do so.  SAP, ¶150. 
Petitioner is informed and believes that the County loses more than $20
million each year in property taxes that could be collected as a result of
Mills Act contracts.  SAP, ¶68.  The City’s allocation of those property taxes
is more than $2 million.  SAP, ¶68.
            The
City’s failure to comply with the Mills Act has bestowed onto Real Party and
other owners of other historical properties illegal and wrongful tax reductions
that have harmed, and will continue to harm, the public by both harming the
environment and illegally and wastefully extending special and substantial
property tax benefits to scofflaw property owners while failing to comply with,
inter alia, duties under California Constitution art. XIII, the Mills
Act, other state laws including CEQA, LAAC mandates and the City Council’s
action of October 11, 2022, and by failing to enforce the Jardinette Contract
and depriving City and Los Angeles County (“County”) residents of intended
benefits of the Contract.  SAP, ¶ 101.    
            CEQA
and the LAAC section 22.171.14 require the preparation and circulation of an
environmental document disclosing all potentially significant environmental
impacts on the historic Jardinette Property caused by the City’s failure to
enforce the Mills Act Contract, and by the City allowing waste and damage to
the historic resources on the Property. SAP, ¶7. 
            On
October 11, 2022, the City Council took action that the “existing condition” of
two properties subject to Historical Property Contracts with the City (one of
which was the Jardinette Apartments) “appear to be in violation of the terms of
their contracts.” SAP, ¶96, Ex. 2. The City Council action directed the
designated departments to conduct the described inspection of the Jardinette
Apartments building and Property and to prepare a report with recommendations
within 30 days. The 30-day period ended November 10, 2022. It took the
designated departments 404 days to prepare a report, and the report was
facially deficient in violation of the City Council’s order and/or was an abuse
of administrative discretion.  SAP, ¶98. 
            On
November 20, 2023, Planning and LADBS submitted to the City Council PLUM
Committee, and the PLUM Committee reviewed and accepted, a 2023 status report
putatively assessing whether the Jardinette Property was in compliance with its
Mills Act Contract.  SAP, ¶99.  Despite acknowledging the Property’s
deteriorated state and ongoing unpermitted work, the PLUM Committee failed to
take further action with respect to the Property and failed to advance the 2023
status report to the full City Council. SAP, ¶99.  
Petitioner has no plain, speedy or adequate remedy available
in the ordinary course of law to redress the claims alleged in the SAP.
Petitioner, as well as members of the general public and citizens of the City
and County, will suffer irreparable harm if the relief requested herein is not
granted and if the City is not compelled to comply with the law. SAP, ¶100.
 
c. The Causes of Action
            The
SAP’s first cause of action is for declaratory relief and a writ of prohibition
that section 50287 is facially unconstitutional.  The purpose of California Constitution art.
XIII, section 8 (“art. XIII, section 8”) is the preservation and restoration of
property of historic significance for all People of California.  In Proposition (“Prop”) 7, the People granted
the Legislature authority to define property of historic significance and
restrictions and uses for the property. The People made mandatory that the
historical significance be enforceably restricted with the obvious intent that
exceptions to equal taxation required by California Constitution art. XIII, §1 (“art.
XIII, §1”) be limited to properties that fulfill the historic preservation
purpose of Prop 7.  SAP, ¶107.
A statute that is inconsistent with or contravenes the
California Constitution is void. Nougues v. Douglass, (1857) 7 Cal. 65,
70.  SAP, ¶112.  Section 50287 is inconsistent with and
contravenes art. XIII, section 8 because it fails to further its purpose that only
enforceably restricted historic properties will receive the tax benefit.  The amendment of the Mills Act in 1977
specified its purpose was to implement Prop 7 (art. XIII, §8). At that time,
any landowner could sue to enforce art. XIII, section 8 pursuant to section 50287.
The right of the People to sue to require the enforceably restricted mandate of
the Constitution is necessarily tied to the purpose of the tax benefit to
ensure compliance with the constitutional provisions the People enacted. SAP,
¶114.  Because section 50287 is
inconsistent with and contravenes the core requirements of art. XIII, section
8, it is facially unconstitutional and void.  SAP, ¶115.
The second cause of action is for declaratory relief and
writ of prohibition based on equal protection. 
Section 50287 allows only landowner taxpayers with historic property
contracts to sue for breach of Mills Act contract conditions, preventing
landowner taxpayers without Mills Act contracts, like Petitioner, from suing
historic property owners and/or cities or counties for breach of Mills Act
contract conditions. This unequal treatment of similarly situated taxpayers
violates the Equal Protection Clause of the California and U.S. Constitutions.  Petitioner and Real Party are both landowners
in the City subject to property tax assessment and are thus similarly situated,
but they are treated unequally because Petitioner is denied access to the
courts to sue to enforce art. XIII, section 8 and the Mills Act.  Petitioner is a taxpayer that must have the
right to sue to enforce the California Constitution and statutes to ensure that
beneficial tax assessment is applied only to properties that meet the purpose
of art. XIII, section8.  SAP, ¶121. 
There is no rational basis to deprive third party taxpayer
landowners the right to sue to enforce Mills Act contracts to ensure properties
that are designated historic are legitimately receiving the tax benefit that
only applies when the restrictions and uses of the properties are enforceably
restricted.  SAP, ¶130.
The third cause of action is for mandamus to compel the City
to inspect the Property.  Sections 50281
and 50282 mandate that the City inspect the interior and exterior of the
premises prior to a new agreement, and every five years thereafter, to
determine the owner’s compliance with the Jardinette Contract.  SAP, ¶137.
The City Council’s action of October 11, 2022 required an
inspection of the conditions of the Jardinette Apartments by City staff within
30 days.  SAP, ¶138.   City
staff did not inspect the Jardinette Apartments for more than one year, and staff
did not issue a report to the City Council until November 20, 2023.  City staff violated the City Council’s to
report on current Property conditions with reference to the specific terms of
the Contract. SAP, ¶139.
In its administrative capacity to enforce the Mills Act
Contract, the City has manifestly abused its discretion in failing to inspect
the Property and require the restrictions and uses of the Jardinette Property for
the historic property tax benefit to be enforceably restricted as required by art.
XIII, section 8, the Mills Act, and the Jardinette Contract. The City has
abused its discretion by violating constitutional and statutory mandates and
conditions for the historic property tax benefit and will continue to violate constitutional
and statutory mandates unless the remedies sought herein issue.  SAP, ¶142.
The fourth cause of action is for taxpayer relief under CCP
section 526a.  The City acted
arbitrarily, capriciously, and unreasonably in exercise of its obligations
under art. XIII, sections 1 and 8, the Mills Act, and LAAC section 19.140 et
seq. by completely failing to require compliance with the enforceably
restricted obligation of the Jardinette Contract with Real Party. Their
manifest abuse of discretion has resulted in loss of property tax revenue
collection from Real Party for a tax benefit that violates constitutional and
statutory requirements.  An action lies
under Code of Civil Procedure (“CCP”) section 526a not only to enjoin “waste of
. . . funds . . . of a local agency,” but also to enforce the government’s duty
to collect funds.  SAP, ¶146.
The fifth cause of action is for mandamus to compel the City
to comply with art. XIII, sections 1and 8 and the Mills Act for all historical
properties.  Petitioner is informed and
believes that the City has demonstrated a pattern and practice that constitutes
an overarching, quasi-legislative policy of City officials to ignore and
otherwise violate ministerial, mandatory duties imposed by law in connection
with enforcement of the City’s Historic Property contracts and the Mills Act,
including but not limited to failure and refusal to inspect the interior and
exterior of all historic properties subject to Historic Property contracts
every five years to determine the property owners’ compliance with their
respective Historic Property contracts. 
SAP, ¶¶ 150, 153.
The sixth cause of action seeks declaratory relief.  An actual and present controversy has arisen
and now exists between Petitioner and the City whether it has demonstrated a
pattern and practice that constitutes an overarching, quasi-legislative policy
of City officials to ignore and otherwise violate mandatory duties imposed by
law in connection with enforcement of Mills Act contracts.  SAP, ¶156.  
An actual and present controversy also exists whether (a)
the City’s power and authority to enable historic property in the City to be
taxed at less than fair market value exists only when such historic property is
“enforceably restricted” as specified in the Mills Act, (b) the City’s
overarching, quasi-legislative policy or administrative policy and practice to
ignore and otherwise violate duties imposed by law is unconstitutional in
violation of art. XIII, section 8 as in excess of the City’s power and authority,
and (c) with respect to each of the City’s approximately 948 existing
Historical Property contracts and all future such contracts, the City is
required to comply with all requirements of art. XIII, sections 1 and 8 and the
Mills Act.  SAP, ¶157.
The seventh cause of action is mandamus for a violation of
CEQA.  The City Council’s October 11,
2022 motion recognized that the historic Jardinette Property “had significantly
deteriorated seemingly in violation of the Mills Act contract.  Based on the City Council’s concerns, the City
had a duty to further prevent such environmental damage to the National
Register and Los Angeles Historic-Cultural Monument Jardinette Property as an historic
resource. This duty included a duty under CEQA to conduct an investigation
analyzing all potentially significant impacts of the ongoing significant
deterioration of the Property in an initial study.  SAP, ¶160. 
A project that may cause a substantial adverse change in the
significance of a historical resource is, by definition, a project that may
have a significant effect on the environment.  Pub. Res. Code §21084.1.  If the study confirmed the City Council’s concern,
the City was required to prevent further damage in a full CEQA document by
proposing project changes through feasible alternatives and mitigation measures
and circulate the document for public review and comment. Pub. Res. Code §15002(a).
 SAP, ¶161.
On November 20, 2023, the PLUM Committee received and
accepted the 2023 status report purportedly assessing whether the Jardinette Property
was in compliance with the Jardinette Contract. The PLUM Committee failed to
take any action on the status report.  SAP,
¶162.  The PLUM Committee’s failure to
take action on the 2023 status report effectively granted approval to the
deterioration and unpermitted work at the Jardinette Property, and tacitly
authorized Real Party to persist in and maintain its unlawful status quo, which
actions constitute a “project” under CEQA.  SAP, ¶162.
Petitioner requests issuance of a writ of mandamus ordering the
City to immediately comply with all requirements of CEQA, including disclosing,
studying in a legally compliant CEQA document, and mitigating the ongoing
adverse impacts to the Jardinette Property’s protected historic resources.  SAP, ¶164.
 
d. Prayer for Relief
            Petitioner
seeks a writ of mandate, and declaratory relief, compelling the City to (1)
inspect the Jardinette Property’s interior and exterior to determine Jardinette
Contract compliance, (2) cause preparation of a written report of the results
of the inspection with compliance determinations for all conditions in the Jardinette
Contract and the City Council’s October 11, 2022 order; and (3) either cancel
the Jardinette Contract or bring legal action to enforce it upon a
determination of non-compliance.  SAP
Prayer, ¶6.
            Petitioner
seeks injunctive relief under CCP section 526a (1) prohibiting the assessment
of the Jardinette Property for taxation at a special or reduced rate, (2)
compelling the City to restore the non-Mills Act taxation rate, and (3) compelling
the recovery and disgorgement of all improperly reduced taxes on the Jardinette
Property and related penalties.  SAP
Prayer, ¶7.
            Petitioner
also seeks a writ of mandate and declaration compelling the City to comply with
art. XIII, section 8 and the Mills Act with respect to all historical
properties and its obligation under historical property contracts to inspect
them every five years to determine and compel compliance.  SAP Prayer, ¶¶ 8-10.  
            Petitioner
seeks a writ of mandate under CCP section 1094.5 ordering the City to comply
with CEQA, including: (a) to set aside and void all approvals and permits
related to the Jardinette Property; (b) to conduct a fully legal and proper
CEQA review; (c) to take all further specific actions as shall be necessary to
bring its decisions, determinations and findings into full compliance with
CEQA, the CEQA Guidelines, the Los Angeles Municipal Code, the LAAC, and all
other laws applicable to any project activity; (d) an injunction restraining the
City from issuing any further discretionary or ministerial entitlements
relating to the project until it has taken all actions necessary to bring its environmental
review into compliance with CEQA; and (e) enjoining Real Party from
implementing any purported entitlements or performing any construction until the
City’s environmental review.  SAP Prayer,
¶ 11(a)-(e).
            Petitioner
also seeks attorney’s fees and costs.  SAP
Prayer, ¶¶ 12-14.
 
            2.
Course of Proceedings
            On
June 2, 2023, Real Party filed its Answer to the Petition.
            On
November 15, 2023, Petitioner filed and served the First Amended Petition (“FAP”)
on all Respondents and Real Party.  Also
on November 15, 2023, Petitioner dismissed the FAP against the Assessor.
            On
December 18, 2023, Real Party filed its Answer to the FAP.
            On
March 7, 2024, the court sustained the demurrer to the FAP with leave to amend.  The court ruled that Petitioner did not have
beneficial or public interest standing to enforce the Mills Act because it is
not enforceable by a third-party landowner and also ruled that Petitioner did
not state a taxpayer claim. 
            On
April 12, 2024, Petitioner filed its SAP. 
            On
May 10, 2024, Real Party filed its Answer to the SAP. 
            On
May 24, 2024, City filed its demurrer to the SAP. 
            
            B. Governing Law
            1.
Property Taxes
            Unless
otherwise provided by the California Constitution or federal law, all property
is taxable and shall be assessed at the same percentage of fair market value.  art. XIII, §1(a).  To promote the preservation of property of
historical significance, the California Constitution authorizes the Legislature
to define such property and provide that, when the land is enforceably
restricted in a manner specified by the Legislture to a specified use, it shall
be valued for property tax purposes only on a basis that is consistent with its
restrictions and uses.  art. XIII, §8.
            The R&T
Code defines “enforceably restricted” for purposes of art. XIII, section 8 as
property that is subject to a historical property contract executed pursuant to
the Mills Act.  R&T Code §439.  Similarly, “restricted historical property”
refers to property defined as qualified historical property under the Mills Act
that is subject to a historical property contract.  R&T Code §439.1.  No property shall be valued pursuant to
R&T Code section 439 et seq. unless such an enforceable restriction
is signed, accepted, and recorded on or before the lien date for the fiscal
year in which the valuation would apply. 
R&T Code §439.4.
 
            2.
The Mills Act
            “Qualified
Historical Property” is privately owned property which is not exempt from
property taxation and is either (a) listed in the National Register of Historic
Places or located in a registered historic district, or (b) listed in any
state, city, county, or city and county official register of historical or
architecturally significant sites, places, or landmarks.   §50280.1. 
Upon an owner or agent’s application, the legislative body of a city,
county, or city and county may contract with the owner or agent to restrict the
use of the property in a manner which the legislative body deems reasonable to
carry out the purposes of the Mills Act and R&T Code section 439 et seq.  §50280. 
The contract shall meet the requirements of sections 50281 and
50282.  §50280.  
            Where
applicable, the contract with the owner of qualified historical property shall
provide for (1) preservation of the property and its restoration or
rehabilitation, where necessary, to conform to the rules and regulations of the
Office of Historic Preservation of the Department of Parks and Recreation, the
United States Secretary of the Interior’s Standards for Rehabilitation, and the
State Historical Building Code; and (2) inspection of the interior and
exterior of the premises by the city, county, or city and county, prior to a
new agreement, and every five years thereafter, to determine the owner’s
compliance with the contract. 
§50281(b).  
The term of the contract shall be for a minimum of ten
years.  §50281(a).  Each contract shall provide that a year shall
be automatically added on the anniversary date of the contract, or on such
other date specified in the contract, unless notice of non-renewal is
given.  Each contract shall provide
that after five years, and every five years thereafter, the city, county, or
city and county shall inspect the interior and exterior of the premises to
determine the owner’s continued compliance with the contract.  §50282(a).
            If
the legislative body determines that the owner has breached any of the
conditions of the contract or has allowed the property to deteriorate to
the point that it no longer meets the standards for a qualified historical
property, the legislative body shall either (a) cancel the contract via the
procedures in sections 50285 and 50286 or (b) bring any action in court
necessary to enforce a contract, including an action for specific
performance or an injunction.  §50284.  No contract shall be cancelled until the
legislative body has given notice of, and held, a public hearing.  §50285. 
If the contract is cancelled, the owner shall pay a cancellation fee
equal to 12 ½ % of the current fair market value of the property.  §50286.
            As
an alternative to cancellation of the contract, a landowner that is a party
thereto may bring any action in court necessary to enforce a contract,
including by specific performance or injunction.  §50287. 

            
C. Demurrers
Demurrers are permitted in
administrative mandate proceedings.  CCP §§1108, 1109.  A demurrer
tests the legal sufficiency of the pleading alone and will be sustained where
the pleading is defective on its face. 
            Where
pleadings are defective, a party may raise the defect by way of a demurrer or
motion to strike or by motion for judgment on the pleadings.  CCP
§430.30(a); Coyne v. Krempels, (1950) 36 Cal.2d 257.  The party
against whom a complaint or cross-complaint has been filed may object by
demurrer or answer to the pleading.  CCP §430.10.  A demurrer is
timely filed within the 30-day period after service of the complaint.  CCP
§430.40; Skrbina v. Fleming Companies, (1996) 45 Cal.App.4th 1353,
1364. 
            A demurrer
may be asserted on any one or more of the following grounds: (a) The court has
no jurisdiction of the subject of the cause of action alleged in the pleading;
(b) The person who filed the pleading does not have legal capacity to sue; (c)
There is another action pending between the same parties on the same cause of
action; (d) There is a defect or misjoinder of parties; (e) The pleading does
not state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action; (f) The pleading is
uncertain; (g) In an action founded on a contract, it cannot be ascertained
from the pleading whether the contract is written, is oral, or is implied by
conduct; (h) No certificate was filed as required by CCP sections 411.35 or
411.36.  CCP §430.10.  
A demurrer tests the
sufficiency of a pleading, and the grounds for a demurrer must appear on the
face of the pleading or from judicially noticeable matters.  CCP
§430.30(a); Blank v. Kirwan, (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311, 318.  The face
of the pleading includes attachments and incorporations by reference (Frantz
v. Blackwell, (1987) 189 Cal.App.3d 91, 94), but it does not include
inadmissible hearsay.  Day v. Sharp, (1975) 50 Cal.App.3d 904,
914.   
            The sole
issue on demurrer for failure to state a cause of action is whether the facts
pleaded, if true, would entitle the plaintiff to relief.  Garcetti v.
Superior Court, (1996) 49 Cal.App.4th 1533, 1547; Limandri v. Judkins,
(1997) 52 Cal.App.4th 326, 339.  The question of plaintiff’s ability to
prove the allegations of the complaint or the possible difficulty in making
such proof does not concern the reviewing court.  Quelimane Co. v.
Stewart Title Guaranty Co., (1998) 19 Cal.4th 26, 47.  
The ultimate facts alleged
in the complaint must be deemed true, as well as all facts that may be implied
or inferred from those expressly alleged.  Marshall v. Gibson, Dunn
& Crutcher, (1995) 37 Cal.App.4th 1397, 1403.  This rule does not
apply to allegations expressing mere conclusions of law, or allegations
contradicted by the exhibits to the complaint or by matters of which judicial
notice may be taken.  Vance v. Villa Park Mobilehome
Estates, (1995) 36 Cal.App.4th 698, 709. 
            For all
demurrers filed after January 1, 2016, the demurring party must meet and confer
in person or by telephone with the party who filed the pleading for the purpose
of determining whether an agreement can be reached that would resolve the
objections to be raised in the demurrer.  CCP §430.31(a).  As part of
the meet and confer process, the demurring party must identify all of the
specific causes of action that it believes are subject to demurrer and provide
legal support for the claimed deficiencies.  CCP §430.31(a)(1).  The
party who filed the pleading must in turn provide legal support for its
position that the pleading is legally sufficient or, in the alternative, how
the complaint, cross-complaint, or answer could be amended to cure any legal
insufficiency.  Id.  The demurring party is responsible for
filing and serving a declaration that the meet and confer requirement has been
met.  CCP §430.31(a)(3).
            “[A]
demurrer based on a statute of limitations will not lie where the action may
be, but is not necessarily, barred. [Citation.] In order for the bar of the
statute of limitations to be raised by demurrer, the defect must clearly and
affirmatively appear on the face of the complaint; it is not enough that the
complaint shows that the action may be barred.” State ex rel. Metz v. CCC
Information Services, Inc., (2007) 149 Cal.App.4th 402, 413.
            If a demurrer is
sustained, the court may grant leave to amend the pleading upon any terms as
may be just and shall fix the time within which the amendment or amended
pleading shall be filed.  CCP §472a(c). 
However, in response to a demurrer and prior to the case being at issue,
a complaint or cross-complaint shall not be amended more than three times,
absent an offer to the trial court as to such additional facts to be pleaded
that there is a reasonable possibility the defect can be cured to state a cause
of action.  CCP §430.41(e)(1).
 
            D. Statement
of Facts[3]
            1. Mills
Act Legislative History
The 1972 version of section 50284
allowed a legislative body to cancel a contract if it determined the Mills Act
property owner breached any of the conditions of the contract or allowed the
property to deteriorate to the point that it no longer met the standards for a
qualified historical property.  RJN Ex. F.  The 2011 version allows the legislative body
to either cancel the contract per sections 50285 and 50286 or bring any action in
court needed to enforce it.  RJN
Ex. G.
            The 1972
version of section 50287 allowed “the county, city, or any landowner” to bring
any action in court necessary to enforce the contract.  RJN Ex. F. 
The 2011 version only allows “a landowner that is a party to the
contract” to bring such an action.  RJN
Ex. G.
 
            2.
Meet and Confer   
            On May 8,
2024, the City sent Petitioner a letter stating the reasons why City would
demur to the SAP.  Kaiulani Decl., ¶ 4,
Ex. L.  The parties met and conferred via
telephone on May 17, 2024 but could not reach an agreement.  Kaiulani Decl., ¶¶ 4-5.  The City has fulfilled its meet and confer
requirement.
            
            E. Analysis
            Respondent
City demurs to the SAP on the basis that (1) section 50287 is not facially
unconstitutional, (2) Petitioner’s equal protection claim fails because Petitioner
is not in a suspect class and there is a rational basis for section 50287, (3) a
landowner not a party to a Mills Act contract cannot bring an action to compel its
enforcement, (4) the City has no ministerial duty regarding the Mills Act Program,
(5) any causes of action concerning the Jardinette Property are moot, (6) Petitioner’s
taxpayer waste claim fails as Petitioner lacks standing and fails to plead a
claim and (7) the alleged City inaction does not qualify as a project subject
to CEQA and none of the City actions are a project approval triggering CEQA
review.
 
            1. Section
50287 is Not Facially Unconstitutional
The Mills Act provides that, if a
legislative body determines that the owner of qualified historical property has
breached any of the conditions of the contract or has allowed the property to
deteriorate to the point that it no longer meets the standards for a qualified
historical property, the legislative body shall either (a) cancel the contract
via the procedures in sections 50285 and 50286 or (b) bring any action in court
necessary to enforce a contract, including an action for specific performance
or an injunction.  §50284.  As an alternative to cancellation of the
contract, a landowner that is a party thereto may bring any action in court
necessary to enforce a contract, including by specific performance or
injunction.  §50287.
The first cause of action is a facial challenge to section
50287 for prohibiting all third-party actions.[4]  A challenge of a statute, ordinance, or
regulation is facial if it considers only the text of the measure itself, while
an as-applied challenge concerns application of the measure to the particular
circumstances of an individual.  Tobe v. City of Santa Ana, (“Tobe”) (1995) 9 Cal.4th 1069, 1084.  The petitioner cannot prevail by suggesting
that problems may arise in some future hypothetical situation in application of
the statute.  Ibid.  Rather, he or she must demonstrate that the
law’s provisions inevitably pose a present total and fatal conflict with
applicable constitutional provisions.   Ibid.  (citation omitted).  Under a facial challenge, the fact that the
statute or ordinance “might operate unconstitutionally under some conceivable
set of circumstances is insufficient to render it wholly invalid....”  Id. (citing Sanchez v. City
of Modesto, (2006) 145 Cal.App.4th 660, 679).  If a statute is constitutional in its general
and ordinary application, it is not facially unconstitutional merely because
there might be some applications where it would impinge upon constitutional
rights.  City of San Diego v. Boggess,
(2013) 216 Cal.App.4th 1494, 1503 (citation omitted).  See also Sturgeon v. Bratton,
(2009) 174 Cal.App.4th 1407, 1418.
Although the strictest standard
of facial unconstitutionality requires total and fatal conflict in every
circumstance, the courts have sometimes imposed a more lenient
standard.  Our Supreme Court has
acknowledged that it has “sometimes applied [the] more lenient standard, asking
whether the statute is unconstitutional ‘in the generality or great
majority of cases.’”  Gerawan
Farming, Inc. v. Agricultural Labor Relations Board, (2017) 3 Cal.5th
1118, 1138 (emphasis in original).  In Alliance
for Responsible Planning v. Taylor, (2021) 63 Cal.App.5th 1072,
1084, the court explained: “For a facial challenge to succeed, the plaintiff
must demonstrate the challenged portion will result in legally impermissible
outcomes in the generality or great majority of cases, the minimum
showing we have required for a facial challenge to the constitutionality of a
statute….[W]e may not uphold the law simply because in some hypothetical
situation it might lead to a permissible result.” (emphasis added).  Declaratory relief is proper for a facial
challenge to a statute. Tejon Real Estate, LLC v. City of Los Angeles,
(2014) 223 Cal.App.4th 149, 154.  
Petitioner argues that, assuming section 50287
precludes all third-party actions, that preclusion would contravene the very
purpose of art. XIII, section 8 to allow an exception to equal taxation only
when the historic restoration and preservation are enforceably restricted.  With few narrow exceptions, the Constitution
mandates all property be taxed at the same proportion to its full value.  art. XIII, §1.  The People should have the right to enforce
the Mills Act to protect constitutional equal taxation obligations.  The 2011 amendment of section 50287 appears
absolute in its application – every third party is denied a right of action to
sue for breach of a Mills Act contract.  The denial of third-party actions does not
further the purposes of historic property restoration and preservation and the
integrity of the taxation process.   “ [A] legislative amendment that alters and
conflicts with a fundamental purpose or primary mandate of an initiative does
not further the purpose of the initiative and is invalid. … ‘The power of the
Legislature may be “practically absolute,” but that power must yield when the
limitation of the Legislature’s authority clearly inhibits its action.’
[Citation.]” Howard Jarvis Taxpayers Ass’n v. Newsom, (2019) 39
Cal.App.5th 158, 174.  Opp. at 10-11.
Petitioner argues that the legislative history of the
Mills Act proves that an exception to equal taxation for historic properties
requires rigorous enforcement.  The Mills
Act was enacted in 1972, prior to art. XIII, section 1.  Even so, county assessors and the board of
equalization pointed to constitutional provisions requiring assessment at full
value and did not implement the special valuation in the Mills Act.  Thus, a provision of constitutional weight
(Prop 7) was sought to allow reduced valuation based on restricted use, but not
outright exemption of value.  SAP ¶ 105, Ex.
8.  
In 1976, California voters approved Prop 7, adding art.
XIII, section 8.  Prop 7 imposes an
express condition precedent to the reduction of taxes on property of historical
significance.  Only where property is
“enforceably restricted, in a manner specified by the Legislature” does any
municipality or agency, including the City and the Assessor, have constitutional
authority to value property for tax purposes at anything less than required
under art. XIII, sections 1 and 8.  In
the adoption of art. XIII, section 8, the People did not cede to the
Legislature their right to ensure that Mills Act tax reductions are received
only on enforceably restricted historic properties.  They also did not cede their right to proceed
in court to challenge or enjoin governmental waste, nor to sue in mandamus for
the government’s failure to enforce Mills Act contracts or collect taxes as
required by art. XIII, section 1.  Opp.
at 11, 12.
In 1977, the Legislature (RJN Ex. 17) amended the
Mills Act through SB 380.  RJN Ex.
17.  In uncodified section 1 of the
amendment, the Legislature stated: “It is the purpose of this act to implement Proposition
7…which amended Section 8 of Article XIII of the Constitution of the State of
California to authorize the Legislature to define property of historical
significance, to provide for the enforceable restriction of such property….”  Only sections 50280 and 50290 were amended.  Section 50287 read the same in 1977 as it did
in 1972: “As an alternative to cancellation of the contract for breach of any
condition, the county, city, or any landowner may bring any action in
court necessary to enforce a contract including, but not limited to, an action
to enforce the contract by specific performance or injunction.”  RJN Ex. 16, p. 30; RJN Ex 17, p. 19.  The 1977 amendment to the Mills Act added the
enforceably restricted language to Rev. and Tax. Code §439, which was
cross-referenced in section 50280.  RJN
Ex. 17, pp. 19-20.   Opp. at 11.
Hence, the People allowed the revival of the Mills Act
by endowing the Legislature with the authority to fix the constitutional defect
by the enforceably restricted requirement added to the Mills Act. At the same
time, the Legislature respected in section 50287 the People’s right to enforce
the historic preservation and restoration property and tax benefit requirement.
 Opp. at 11.
In 2011, the Legislature amended section 50287, with
neither rhyme nor reason, providing that a “landowner that is a party to the
contract may bring any action in court necessary to enforce a contract”.  RJN Ex. 18, pp. 38-39.  Is the contracting landowner going to sue
itself for failing to comply with contract restrictions?  Petitioner thinks not.  Is the City going to do so under section
50284(b)?  It has not.  So, the property deteriorates, its historic
nature is damaged, and a tax break is improperly allowed.  Consequently, the removal of third-party
actions in present section 50287 “narrows and embarrasses” art. XIII, section 8
and is facially unconstitutional.  See
Silicon Valley Taxpayers’ Ass’n, Inc. v. Santa Clara Cty. Open Space
Auth., (2008) 44 Cal.4th 431, 448.  Opp. at 12.
Petitioner concludes that the 2011 amendment of section
50287 illegally contravenes Prop. 7 (art. XIII, §8) because it purports to
eliminate the right of the People, through third party actions, to insist that
property tax breaks go only to those owners who have complied with the
enforceably restricted requirements.  Opp. at 12.
Petitioner analogizes (Opp. at 12) to Lewis v. City
of Hayward, (“Lewis”) (1986) 177 Cal.App.3d 103.  In Lewis, the court
interpreted the constitutionality under art. XIII, section 8 of a provision of
the Williamson Act, which permits a legislative body to enter into a contract
with a landowner restricting the use of property to agriculture.  Id. at 107.  The provision at issue authorized the
landowner a one-time opportunity to cancel the contract.  Id. 
The petitioner argued that the so-called “window provision” permitted
easy cancellation of the Williamson Act contract and rendered its restrictions
illusory under art. XIII, section 8.  Id.  The trial court found that the window
provision did not facially conflict with art. XIII, section 8 because the
Legislature has the exclusive power to determine the manner of an enforceable
restriction.  Id.
The appellate court disagreed,
holding that the window provision violated the “enforceable restrictions”
requirement of art. XIII, section 8.  The
Constitution does not authorize the Legislature to define the term “enforceable
restrictions” and, even if it did, art. XIII, section 8 does not permit a
definition which renders such restrictions ineffective for land conservation
purposes.  Id. at 113.  “To pass constitutional muster, a restriction
must be enforceable in the face of imminent urban development, and may not be
terminable merely because such development is desirable or profitable to the
landowner.”  Ibid.  Because the provision at issue allowed
termination of a Williamson Act contract merely because development is imminent
-- and the land now will be more valuable -- without concern for the public’s
interest in the policies underlying art. XIII, section 8 and the Williamson
Act, it was unconstitutional.  Id.  The Lewis court
concluded: “It is hard to imagine a clearer statement of an intent to provide
for the lifting of a restrictive use simply because development is both nearby
and otherwise legal. Surely, however, those standards do not comprise
effective, enforceable restrictions for land conservation purposes.  In our view, therefore, they are inconsistent
with the constitutional requirement that preferentially taxed lands be
enforceably restricted.” Id. at 114.  

Petitioner argues that, like the Williamson Act provision,
section 50287 as now written ignores the public’s interest and weakens the
enforceably restricted requirement by eliminating the People’s right to bring
actions to ensure constitutional requirements allowing for an exception to
equal property taxation are followed.  Section
50278 is unconstitutional. “A statute inconsistent with the California
Constitution is, of course, void. [Citation.]” Hotel Employees &
Restaurant Employees Internat. Union v. Davis, (1999) 21 Cal.4th 585, 602.  Opp. at 12-13.
Petitioner is wrong. 
Section 50287 does not directly concern the tax assessments of Mills Act
properties; it concerns the enforcement of Mills Act contracts.  The owner of the Mills Act property, not
third parties, is restricted in the manner in which his/her property must be
rehabilitated and used.  The purpose of
the Mills Act is to rehabilitate and preserve historic properties and
preventing third-party enforcement facilitates that purpose so that third
parties (i.e., “any landowner”) do not interfere with the rehabilitation
and preservation process facilitated by the contract.  
Petitioner’s argument suffers from an assumption  that section 50287’s prohibition on third
party enforcement leaves the property owner unchecked in how and when to
confirm his/her property to the limitations of art. XIII, section 8.  It does not. 
Section 50287 leaves enforcement to the city or county, and that public
entity has discretion in how it enforces a Mills Act contract.  The public agency must cancel a Mills Act
contract, or if necessary bring a legal action to enforce, if its legislative
body determines that the owner is not compliant, not when a third-party to the
contract makes that determination.  Lewis is distinguishable because, unlike the landowner who
unilaterally could decide to cancel his or her open space contract, a Mills Act
contract is enforceable by the city or county.
Moreover, section 50287 cannot be unconstitutional
even under the more lenient standard of the generality or great
majority of cases.’”  Gerawan
Farming, Inc. v. Agricultural Labor Relations Board, supra, 3
Cal.5th at 1138 (emphasis in original).  It
is not unconstitutional to prevent third parties from suing over a Mills Act
property that is fully rehabilitated under its Mills Act contract.  It is also not unconstitutional to prevent
third parties from interfering with a Mills Act contract where the city or
county furthers the purpose of the Mills Act by providing the owner more time
for rehabilitation and preservation.  Both
scenarios are likely, and Petitioner has not met the requirements of facial
constitutional invalidity.
 
2. Section 50287
Does Not Violate Equal Protection
The second cause of action alleges
that section 50287 violates equal protection by denying all third-party
actions.  The party raising
an equal protection challenge has the burden of establishing
unconstitutionality.  Woods v. Horton,
(2008) 167 Cal.App.4th 658, 674.
 
a. The Rational Basis Test Applies
In analyzing the constitutionality of laws challenged under
the equal protection clauses of the United States and California Constitutions,
there are three levels of analysis: “Distinctions in statutes that involve
suspect classifications or touch upon fundamental interests are subject to
strict scrutiny…Classifications based on gender are subject to an intermediate
level of review.  But most legislation is
tested only to determine if the challenged classification bears a rational
relationship to a legitimate state purpose. [citations.]”  People v. Hofsheier, (2006) 37 Cal.4th
1185, 1200.  
If a legislative measure adversely impinges upon a “fundamental
right” or involves a “suspect classification,” it will be subjected to a “strict
scrutiny” test under which “the state bears the burden of establishing not only
that it has a compelling interest which justifies the law but that the
distinctions drawn by the law are necessary to further its purpose.”  Ibid.  In all other cases not concerning gender, the
less stringent “rational basis” test applies. 
D’Amico v. Board of Medical Examiners, (1974) 11 Cal.3d 1, 16-17.
 Under this standard, legislation is
invested with a presumption of constitutionality and distinctions drawn must
merely “bear some rational relationship to a conceivable legitimate state
purpose.”  Id.  The burden of demonstrating the invalidity of
a classification under the rational relationship standard is on the party
challenging the classification.  Id.
at 17.  
Petitioner argues that strict
scrutiny applies because this case concerns its First Amendment right of access
to court.  The 2011
amendment to section 50287 created two classes.  Petitioner and Real Party are both City landowners
subject to property taxes.  They are
similarly situated taxpayers but are treated unequally because landowners
without historic property tax breaks are denied access to the courts to enforce
art. XIII, section 8 and the Mills Act.  Opp. at 13.
Section 50287 denies landowner taxpayers without Mills
Act contracts, like Petitioner, the fundamental right of access to the courts –
the right to petition for redress of grievances guaranteed by the First
Amendment and by California Constitution art. I, § 3(a)– to enforce art. XIII, section
8 and Mills Act contracts. “The right to sue and defend in the courts…lies at
the foundation of orderly government.  It
is one of the highest and most essential privileges of citizenship, and must be
allowed by each State to the citizens of all other States to the precise extent
that it is allowed to its own citizens.”  Chambers v. Baltimore & O. R. Co.,
(1907) 207 U.S. 142, 148.  Petitioner
concludes that section 50287 is subject to strict constitutional scrutiny by
the denial of the right of access to the courts to certain landowners.  Opp. at 13-14.
The classification at issue is the difference between
property taxpayers who own Mills Act properties and those that do not.  R&T Code
sections 439 and 439.4, and Mills Act section 50280, permit historical property
to obtain a property tax reduction and created two classes of
City landowners subject to property taxes but treated unequally because of
historic property tax breaks.  Petitioner
does not challenge these other statutes. 
In contrast, section 50287 did not create two classes of property owners.  It only limited enforcement of Mills Act
contracts to the city or county.  Section
50287 may limit access to the courts, but it does nothing to create classes of
landowners for property tax purposes.    
In any event, the City points out
that statutes that incidentally impinge on fundamental rights are not subject
to strict scrutiny.  Vergara v. State
of California, (2016) 246 Cal.App.4th 619, 645 (citation
omitted).  Reply at 4-5.  Section 50280 is an enforcement statute that
only incidentally impinges on landowner access to court.  Section 50287 does not involve
a suspect classification or interfere with the exercise of a fundamental
right.  The deferential rational basis
test applies. 
 
b. Section 50280 Has a Rational
Basis
Rational basis review “‘is the basic and conventional
standard for reviewing economic and social welfare legislation in which there
is a ‘discrimination’ or differentiation of treatment between classes or
individuals.  It manifests restraint by
the judiciary in relation to the discretionary act of a co-equal branch of
government; in so doing it invests legislation involving such differentiated
treatment with a presumption of constitutionality and ‘requir[es] merely that
distinctions drawn by a challenged statute bear some rational relationship to a
conceivable legitimate state purpose.’ [citation.]’”  Warden v. State Bar, (1999) 21 Cal.4th
628, 641.  
Under the rational basis standard, government action
“‘must be upheld against equal protection challenge if there is any reasonably
conceivable state of facts that could provide a rational basis for the
classification. Where there are ‘plausible reasons’ for the classification ‘our
inquiry is at an end.’” Id. at 644 (citations omitted).  “‘[A] legislative choice is not subject to
courtroom fact finding and may be based on rational speculation unsupported by
evidence or empirical data.’… [W]hen there is a reasonably conceivable
justification for a classification, ‘[i]t is … ‘constitutionally irrelevant
whether [the] reasoning in fact underlay the legislative decision’’, or whether
the ‘conceived reason for the challenged distinction actually motivated the legislature.’”
Id. at 650 (citations omitted). 
The government has “no obligation to produce evidence
to sustain the rationality of a statutory classification ... A statute is
presumed constitutional . . . and ‘the burden is on the one attacking the
legislative arrangement to negative every conceivable basis which might support
it,’ [citation], whether or not the basis has a foundation in the record.”  Heller v. Doe, (1993) 509 U.S. 312,
319-21. 
Petitioner argues that the City has failed to ensure
the enforceably restricted requirement on the Jardinette Property and has
institutionally failed to undertake the five-year mandatory inspections on the
majority of its Mills Act historic properties. There is no rational basis to
deny third party landowners such as Petitioner the right to sue to enforce
Mills Act contracts.  Opp. at 15.
The legislative history of section 50287 (AB 654) is
completely silent on the reason third party taxpayer landowners were stripped
of the right to sue after 34 uninterrupted years of having that right.  The right for third party actions, and
elimination of that right, ping ponged through the bills with no reasons
stated.  SAP Exs. 12-15.  Acknowledging that the Legislature is not
required to state its reasoning, , “even the standard of rationality as we so
often have defined it must find some footing in the realities of the subject
addressed by the legislation.”  Heller
v. Doe, supra, 509 U.S. at 321.  “While the realities of the subject matter
cannot be completely ignored, a court may engage in ‘rational speculation’ as
to the justifications for the legislative choice.”  Johnson v. Department of Justice,
(2015) 60 Cal.4th 871, 881 (citations omitted). “Although by straining our
imagination we could possibly derive a theoretically ‘conceivable,’ but totally
unrealistic, state purpose that might support this classification scheme, we do
not believe our constitutional adjudicatory function should be governed by such
a highly fictional approach to statutory purpose.”  Brown v. Merlo, (1973) 8 Cal.3d 855,
865, n. 7.  Opp. at 15.
According to Petitioner, removing the third-party
landowner right of action from section 50287 does nothing but allow mischief
because it only serves to preclude enforcement of contracts and equality of
property taxation.  The Mills Act
contract landowner will never sue to enforce the contract’s enforceable
restrictions against itself. That cannot be rational when the People created art.
XIII, section 8 to require specific limitations on tax breaks.  Op. at 15.
The Williamson Act further demonstrates that no
rational basis exists to deny third party landowner taxpayers the right of
access to the courts to sue for violation of the Mills Act and breaches of
Mills Act contracts.  Section 51251 provides:
“The county, city, or landowner may bring any action in court necessary to
enforce any contract including, but not limited to, an action to enforce the
contract by specific performance or injunction. An owner of land may bring any
action in court to enforce a contract on land whose exterior boundary is within
one mile of his land. An owner of land under contract may bring any action in
court to enforce a contract on land located within the same county or city.” As
noted, the Williamson Act implements the first paragraph of art. XIII, section
8 – the tax benefit for enforceably restricted preservation of open space and
agricultural land. The Legislature allows access to the courts by third party
taxpayer landowners within one mile of tax benefited property to ensure
compliance with art. XIII, section 8 and the Williamson Act.  There is no rational basis to deny third party
taxpayer landowners the same right of access to the courts to ensure compliance
with art. XIII, section 8 and the Mills Act. The 2011 amendment to section
50287 is unconstitutional under the rational basis test.  Opp. at 16.
The City first argues that there is a rational basis
to distinguish between Mills Act property taxpayers and other property
taxpayers.  The Mills Act is intended to
preserve and maintain properties of historical significance.  The Mills Act can be applied to different
types of Qualified Historic Properties and there may be differing views on how
properties may be maintained and restored.  Dem. at 20.
Petitioner responds that different views on how a
Qualified Historic Property may be restored is not a rational basis to justify the
elimination of landowner actions.  The
Mills Act contract sets the terms and timing of the restoration and
preservation.  Those are the enforceable
restrictions.  Litigation to enforce the
terms of the contracts or to require the mandatory five-year inspections does
not challenge the contract terms, only the City’s failure to enforce.  Opp. at 15.
While the court agrees that the elimination of
enforcement of Mills Act contracts by landowners is not justified by the prospect
that Qualified Historic Properties may have differing terms of restoration and
maintenance, Petitioner has not met its burden. The Mills Act contract is between
the city or county and the property owner. 
This fact alone is a rational basis to distinguish between Mills Act
property taxpayers and other property taxpayers.  The issues of enforcement are contractual in
nature, and it is rational to limit enforcement to the contracting parties.  Doing so also minimizes the delays from
interference by third-party landowners.  “So
long as legislation is rationally related to a legitimate state interest, it is
not our concern whether the Legislature has adopted what we might think to be
the wisest and most suitable means of accomplishing its objectives.”  Wachs v. Curry, (1993) 13 Cal.App.4th
616, 624-25.  
The 2011 version of section 50287 has a rational basis
and does not violate equal protection.
 
3. Petitioner Cannot Enforce the Mills Act in
the Third, Fifth, and Sixth Causes of Action
The third cause of action seeks mandamus to require
the City to enforce the Mills Act contract with the Jardinette Property owner
to comply with art. XIII, section 8 and the Mills Act. The fifth and sixth
causes of action seek mandamus and/or injunctive relief to compel the City to
enforce its Mills Act contracts in general to comply with art. XIII, section 8
and the Mills Act. 
In its ruling on demurrer to the
FAP, the court stated that the City has a mandatory duty pursuant to Mills Act
sections 50281(b) and 50282(a) to inspect the interior and
exterior of a Mills Act property to determine the owner’s compliance with the
contract.”  This mandatory inspection
duty is distinguishable from the City’s discretionary duties of determining that a Mills Act contract has been breached or that the owner
has allowed the property to deteriorate so that it no longer qualifies as an
historical property and deciding to either cancel the contract or bring an
enforcement action against the property owner. 
The City also has discretion to schedule the timing of inspections so
long as they occur every five years.  See
California Assn. for Health Services at Home v. Department or
Health Services, (2007) 148 Cal.App.4th 696, 708 (annual review was
ministerial because it was statutorily mandated but compliance with the
operative federal regulation was not).  
Despite its ministerial nature, the
City’s duty to perform mandatory inspections is not enforceable by a third
party.  Unlike the Williamson Act
provision in Lewis, the City’s failure to inspect every five years does
not directly contradict the purpose of art. XIII, section 8 and the Mills
Act.  Rather, any failure to inspect is a
failure both of contract and statutorily required performance, not a failure of
the art. XIII, section 8 and Mills Act purpose that property be enforceably
restricted.  The Mills
Act Program properties remain enforceably restricted whether or not the City
complies with its inspection duty. 
Additionally, section 50287 precludes a third party from enforcing Mills
Act contracts.
As the City argues (Dem. at 20), the court recognized
in ruling on the demurrer to the FAP that Petitioner lacks standing to bring mandamus
claims regarding the Jardinette Contract and the City’s other Mills Act contracts.  The history of sections 50284 and 50287 presented
by Petitioner only verifies that it is not authorized to bring an action to
enforce a Mills Act contract.  Section 50287
as amended in 2011 permits enforcement only by “a landowner that is a party to
the [Mills Act] contract.”  See People
v. Tingcungco, (2015) 237 Cal.App.4th 249, 256 (deletion of statutory text
means the statute “should not be construed to include the omitted provision.”).
 Petitioner lacks standing to bring this
lawsuit to compel action under the Jardinette’s Contract. 
Petitioner first relies on its argument that the 2011
amendment to section 50287 eliminating third party actions is unconstitutional.
 Petitioner contends that the valid
pre-2011 version of section 50287 provides Petitioner with standing to sue on
the third, fifth and sixth causes of action. See McAllister v. Hamlin,
(1890) 83 Cal. 361, 365 (“when that act was declared unconstitutional… section
274 of the Code of Civil Procedure as it stood before the passage of the
unconstitutional act amendatory of it remained the law”).  Opp. at 16. 

Since the 2011 amendment to section 50287 is
constitutional, Petitioner’s argument fails. 

Petitioner also argues that the Legislature adopted
the mandatory inspection requirement because, as the 2011 legislative history
shows, periodic inspections for compliance as needed do not always occur and
mandatory inspections must exist “to ensure that a property tax break is not
given to a historical property owner without the property owner’s compliance.”  SAP Exs. 9, p. 2, and 10, p. 2. Opp. at 17.
The language of section 50281 is mandatory, and the
legislative history shows the need for it to be mandatory.  In section 50281(b)(2), the Legislature
created a ministerial, mandatory duty to inspect to “determine the owner’s
compliance with the contract”.  The City
does not have discretion when it will inspect or the nature of the inspection
to be undertaken.  No discretion exists
whether the contract terms are met or not; a mandatory requirement exists to
enforceably restrict the landowners’ agreed restoration and preservation
criteria.  Yet, the City has failed to
conduct mandatory inspections on 74% of the Mills Act properties, as found in
the City’s Chattel Report. (SAP ¶ 66.) Opp. at 17-19.
That Real Party has breached the Jardinette Contract
is manifest. The City Council’s October 11, 2022 motion found the historic
Jardinette Property “had significantly deteriorated and has active code
enforcement for unpermitted construction work seemingly in violation of the
Mills Act contract.” SAP Ex. 2.  Further,
the failure to meet the 2018 deadlines for much of the restoration work proves
breach of contract.  SAP Ex. 1, pp.
17-19; SAP ¶¶ 47, 139.  The City Council
ordered a “report with recommendations in 30 days on the existing condition of
the … the Jardinette Apartments … and whether or not the Mills Act contract
obligations … are being met …”  Id.
The report was filed on November 20, 2023, 404 days after the City Council’s
motion. Whether the report complies with mandatory obligations of section 50284
and the City Council’s October 2022 specific directive is a question of
fact.  Opp. at 18-19.
Even if the City has discretion in sections 50281 and
50284, “[m]andamus may also issue to correct the exercise of discretionary
legislative power, but only where the action amounts to an abuse of discretion
as a matter of law because it is so palpably unreasonable and arbitrary.
[Citation.]”  Ellena v. Department of
Insurance, (2014) 2 230 Cal.App.4th 198, 206.  At the very least, the facts show the City’s
actions are palpably unreasonable and arbitrary.  SAP ¶146.  The City has failed to conduct inspections on
the vast majority of Mills Act contracts, which involves $20 million in yearly
tax loss collections.  SAP ¶68.  As for the Jardinette Property, it is in
deplorable condition and the City is well aware of that fact.  Opp. at 19.
While the court agrees with Petitioner that the City
has a mandatory duty to inspect, and that this failure to inspect could well
result in lost property tax revenue, Petitioner does not have standing to
enforce this duty.  Under section 50287,
the City’s breach of its mandatory duty to inspect every five years is not
enforceable by third parties under the Mills Act.  Additionally, Petitioner is incorrect that the
Jardinette Contract has been breached.  The
City has made no determination that the Jardinetee Property is non-compliant
with the Contract.  The City Council’s
October 12, 2022 direction reflects as much. 
SAP, Ex. 2.  See Reply at
7.[5]
 
            4. The
Taxpayer Claim
The fourth cause of action is a taxpayer claim under CCP
section 526a seeking injunctive relief to require the City to enforce art. XIII
and the Mills Act by making the correct assessment and collection of taxes due
from property owners who have not compiled with the enforceable restrictions in
their contracts. 
CCP section 526a provides as
relevant: “An action to obtain a judgment, restraining and preventing any
illegal expenditure of, waste of, or injury to, the estate, funds, or other
property of a county, town, city or city and county of the state, may be maintained
against any officer thereof, or any agent, or other person, acting in its
behalf, either by a citizen resident therein, or by a corporation, who is
assessed for and is liable to pay, or, within one year before the commencement
of the action, has paid, a tax therein.”  
A taxpayer may bring an
action under CCP section 526a by establishing that (1) he or she is a taxpayer
and (2) either an illegal expenditure or waste within the meaning of this
section has occurred.  Tobe, supra, 9 Cal.4th at 1086;
Connerly v. State Personnel Bd., (2001) 92 Cal.App.4th 16, 29.  “It is established that an action lies under section 526a not
only to enjoin wasteful expenditures, but also to enforce the government’s duty
to collect funds due to the State.”  Myers
v. Board of Equalization, (2015) 240 Cal.App.4th 722, 744 (mandamus to
compel State to assess and collect tax on gross premiums received by two health
insurance entities).
The City argues that Petitioner’s claim of waste under
CCP section 526a requires more than "an alleged mistake of public
officials in matters involving the exercise of judgment or wide
discretion."  Sundance v.
Municipal Court, (1986) 42 Cal.3d 1101, 1138-39.  Taxpayer suits are authorized only if the
government body has a duty to act and has refused to do so.  If it has discretion and chooses not to act,
the courts may not interfere with that decision." Daily Journal v.
County of Los Angeles, (2009) 172 Cal.App.4th 1550, 1557-58. Moreover,
courts restrictively interpret the word "waste" in CCP section 526a
actions to bar claims alleging a failure to maintain public property or pursue
a legal claim.  See Mohler v.
County of Santa Clara, (2023) 92 Cal.App.5th 418, 426-27 (affirming
trial court’s sustaining of demurrer for waste claim that county failed to
maintain airport where there was no duty to do so); Silver v. Watson,
(1972) 26 Cal.App.3d 905, 910 (affirming trial court’s sustaining of demurrer
for taxpayer's suit to compel board of supervisors to sue third party for
unpaid property taxes).  Petitioner meets
none of the requirements to bring a waste claim.  Dem. at 23.
Petitioner responds that the taxpayer claim is
warranted because the City has a duty to act and has refused to do so.  The Mills Act duty to inspect, the
requirements of inspection, and the duty to sue or cancel the contract are
mandatory obligations, not discretionary acts.  “‘It is established that an action lies under
section 526a not only to enjoin wasteful expenditures, but also to enforce the
government’s duty to collect funds due the State.” Myers v. Board of
Equalization, (2015) 240 Cal.App.4th 722, 744.  Petitioner seeks to stop the failure to
collect funds due the State.  SAP ¶¶
43-44, 146-47, Prayer at ¶7.  Opp. at
19-20.
While courts narrowly interpret the word “waste” in CCP
section 526a to bar claims alleging a failure to maintain public property or
for the government’s failure to pursue a legal claim to recover taxes, the SAP
is neither of those.  The Jardinette Property
is not public property.  Petitioner’s lawsuit
is for the City’s failure to either sue to enforce the Jardinette Contract or
cancel it.  Petitioner seeks an order
that real property be correctly assessed and taxed so that taxes are properly
collected in order to prevent the waste that the City is causing (SAP ¶ 147,
Prayer ¶ 7), not an order for the City to sue for taxes.  Petitioner argues that it properly states a
526a taxpayer action.  Opp. at 20.
The City replies that Petitioner’s standing argument ignores
the City’s discretion in Mills Act enforcement and blatantly attempts to expand
the scope of taxpayer claims.  Taxpayer
suits are authorized “only if the government has a duty to act and refuses to
do so.  If it has discretion and refuses
to act, the court may not interfere with that decision.” Daily Journal v.
County of Los Angeles, supra, 172 Cal.App.4th at
1557-58.  A taxpayer waste claim will not
be permitted merely because there is a failure to pursue a legal claim.  Silver v. Watson, supra, 26
Cal.App.3d at 950.  Petitioner wants the
court to order the City to either cancel the contract or bring a legal action
for non-compliant properties.  This is an
effort to compel the City to exercise its discretion in a particular manner
under the guise of a speculative waste claim. 
Reply at 8.
The court ruled on the City’s
demurrer to the FAP that the City’s only mandatory duty is to inspect.  The court stands by that ruling now.  The City’s mandatory duty to cancel or bring
an action to enforce the contract is contingent on its determination that the
owner has breached any of the conditions of the contract or has allowed the
property to deteriorate to the point that it no longer meets the standards for
a qualified historical property. 
§50284.  As such, the City must
exercise its discretion before any enforcement duty arises.  In addition, the City’s duty to bring suit is
discretionary because it is required to bring an action “necessary to enforce
the contract.”  Id.  The decision on whether an action is
necessary to enforce the contract is discretionary.  In short, the City has considerable
discretion in evaluating the owner’s contract performance and has no mandatory duty
to cancel or bring an action to enforce a Mills Act contract standing alone.
The question becomes whether the
taxpayer waste claim may be based on the City’s failure to perform its
mandatory, ministerial duty to inspect the Jardinette Property.  Taxpayer suits
are authorized only if the government body has a duty to act and has refused to
do so.  Daily Journal v. County of Los
Angeles, supra, 172 Cal.App.4th at 1557-58.  The court previously
ruled for the FAP demurrer that the City’s mandatory duty to inspect the
Jardinette Property alone would not support a waste claim.  In other words, without the exercise of the
City’s discretionary enforcement duties, there can be no waste through a
failure to collect sufficient property taxes. The SAP does not allege, and Petitioner
makes no argument, that compelling the City to perform inspection of the
Jardinette Property by itself would support a waste claim.  
In fact, the City has inspected the
Jardinette Property.  On November
20, 2023, City staff transmitted a report to the City Council that discussed an
October 12, 2023 inspection of the site and an assessment that found the
Jardinette Property “is in compliance with the terms and conditions of [its]
Mills Act Historical Property Contract.” 
RJN Ex. G, pp. 2-3.  The SAP
acknowledges the fact of City inspection. 
SAP, ¶¶ 138-39.  Petitioner argues
that whether the report complied with the inspection mandate of section 50284
presents a factual dispute.  Opp. at 19.  Perhaps, but the SAP does not allege that the
mandatory inspection was inadequate, only that its report of compliance is an
abuse of discretion.  See SAP ¶¶
138-39, 142, 162.
Petitioner cannot make a taxpayer claim based solely
on the mandatory duty to inspect the Jardinette Property.
 
4. CEQA
The seventh cause of action is for the City’s
violation of CEQA.
 
1. Governing Law
The purpose of CEQA (Pub. Res. Code[6]
§21000 et seq.) is to maintain a quality environment for the people of
California both now and in the future. 
§21000(a).  “[T]he overriding
purpose of CEQA is to ensure that agencies regulating activities that may
affect the quality of the environment give primary consideration to preventing
environmental damage.”  Save Our
Peninsula Committee v. Monterrey County Board of Supervisors, (2001) 87
Cal.App.4th 99, 117.  CEQA must be
interpreted “so as to afford the fullest, broadest protection to the
environment within reasonable scope of the statutory language.”  Friends of Mammoth v. Board of Supervisors,
(1972) 8 Cal.3d 247, 259.  Public
agencies must regulate both public and private projects so that “major
consideration is given to preventing environmental damage, while providing a
decent home and satisfying living environment for every Californian.”  §21000(g). 
The Legislature chose to accomplish its environmental goals through
public environmental review processes designed to assist agencies in
identifying and disclosing both environmental effects and feasible alternatives
and mitigations.  §21002.        
Environmental analysis must be performed before an agency
approves a project (Laurel Heights Improvement Association v. Regents of the
University of California, (“Laurel Heights”) (1988) 47 Cal.3d 376,
394), an agency may not commit itself to a project without performing such
review (National Resources Defense Council v. City of Los Angeles, (“NRDC”)
(2002) 103 Cal.App.4th 268, 271-72), and an agency may not avoid CEQA
compliance by sponsoring an initiative by the voters to approve a project.  Friends of Sierra Madre v. City of Sierra
Madre, (2001) 25 Cal.4th 165.  
CEQA expressly applies to discretionary projects by public
agencies, including but not limited to the enactment and amendment of zoning
ordinances, issuance of conditional use permits, and approving tentative
subdivision maps.  §21080(a).  A discretionary project is defined as any
project that “requires the exercise of judgment or deliberation.”  Guidelines §15357.   Ministerial projects proposed to or carried
out by public agencies and projects rejected by an agency are expressly
exempted from CEQA.  §21080(b)(1),
(5).  If the agency is empowered to
disapprove or condition approval of a project based on environmental concerns
that might be uncovered by CEQA review, the project is discretionary.  Friends of Westwood, Inc. v. City of Los
Angeles (1987) 191 Cal.App.3d 259, 274. 

A “project” is defined as an action which may cause either a
direct physical change in the environment, or a reasonably foreseeable indirect
physical change in the environment that is (1) an activity undertaken directly
by any public agency, including but not limited to public works construction,
improvements to structures, zoning ordinances and general plans (2) an activity
taken by a person supported by the public agency through contracts, grants,
subsidies, loans or other public assistance, or (3) an activity involving the
issuance of a lease, permit, license, certificate, or other entitlement for use
by a public agency.  §21065; Guidelines[7]
§15378(a)(1)-(3).  The word “may” in this
context means a reasonable possibility.  Citizen
Action to Serve All Students v. Thornley, (1990) 222 Cal.App.3d 748,
753.  “Environment” means the physical
conditions which exist within the area which will be affected by a proposed
project, including land, air, water, minerals, flora, fauna, noise, objects of
historic or aesthetic significance. 
Guidelines §21060.5.  Not every
agency action is a project.  Simi
Valley Recreation & Park District v. Local Agency Formation Commission,
(1975) 51 Cal.App.3d 648, 663.  A project
does not include “organizational or administrative activities of governments
that will not result in direct or indirect physical changes to the environment.”  Guidelines §15378(b)(5).
Thus, to qualify as a project under CEQA, the activity at
issue must contain two elements: (1) The activity must be an activity directly
undertaken by a public agency, an activity supported in whole or in part by a
public agency, or an activity involving the issuance by a public agency of some
form of entitlement, permit, or other authorization (i.e., there must be
some activity carried out, approved, or funded by the public agency).  §21065; Guidelines §15378(a); and (2) The
activity “may cause either a direct physical change in the environment, or a
reasonably foreseeable indirect physical change in the environment.”  Guidelines §15378(a).  If either is not met, the activity is not a project
triggering CEQA review.  Guidelines
§15060(c)(3).  
The approval of a project means an agency decision “that
commits [it] to a definite course of action in regard to a project.”  Guidelines §15352(a).  Approval occurs when the agency is legally
committed to proceed with the project.  City
of Vernon v. Board of Harbor Comm’rs., (“City of Vernon”) (1998) 63
Cal.App.4th 677, 688.  The word
“approval” does not mean that a project is held in high esteem by an agency; it
means an official act of the agency granting a permit or recognizing a right.  Id., at 687 (letter of intent to enter
into lease for a project was not binding). 
Agency approval does not occur where an agency enters into a conditional
contract, retains the right to disapprove or modify major aspects of the respective
project, and preserves environmental review “for a later stage”.  See Concerned McCloud Citizens v.
McCloud Community Services District, (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 181, 193
(agreement for purchase and sale of spring water was not an approved project
where it was subject to numerous contingencies and subsequent environmental
review).  
 
2. Analysis
The SAP alleges that, on November 20, 2023, the PLUM
Committee received and accepted the 2023 status report purportedly assessing
whether the Property was in compliance with the Mills Act Contract. The PLUM
Committee failed to take any action on the status report. SAP, ¶162.  The PLUM Committee’s receipt of, and failure
to take action on, the 2023 Status Report effectively granted approval to the
deterioration and unpermitted work at the Property, and tacitly authorized Real
Party to persist in and maintain its unlawful status quo, which actions
constitute a “project” under CEQA.  SAP,
¶162.  These actions constituted a
project under CEQA that was approved without need analysis, studies, or
findings under CEQA.  SAP, ¶163. 
Petitioner embellishes on the allegation that the PLUM
Committee’s actions were a project under CEQA.  Under the Jardinette Contract, Real Party receives
tax benefits in exchange for maintaining the Jardinette Property “in superior
condition.” SAP ¶¶ 43-45.  The City
Council directed various City departments to investigate both the actions
undertaken by Real Party and the current condition of the Jardinette Property.  SAP ¶¶ 2, 93. 
This culminated in the PLUM Committee accepting the 2023 Mills Act status
report, which outlined significant alterations to the interior and exterior of
the Jardinette Property without any CEQA review.  The PLUM Committee did not advance the report
to the City Council, and thus it was a final City action.  SAP ¶¶ 12, 49-51, 55.  These City activities may cause direct or
reasonably foreseeable indirect physical changes to a historic resource.  SAP ¶¶ 52, 95.   Therefore,
the SAP properly alleges that the City’s activities constitute a project under
CEQA.  SAP ¶¶ 93-99.   Opp.
at 20.
The PLUM Committee’s failure to act is not a project under
CEQA.  There has been no activity
directly undertaken by a public agency, an activity supported in whole or in
part by a public agency, or an activity involving the issuance by a public
agency of some form of entitlement, permit, or other authorization.  §21065; Guidelines §15378(a).  Rather, the PLUM Committee’s failure to act
is an administrative activity of a local government that will not result in
direct or indirect physical changes to the environment.  Guidelines §15378(b)(5).
Petitioner argues that the City’s demurrer wrongly claims
that CEQA requires issuance of a permit or other approval, and such a
requirement is not in the definition of “project.”  See Vichy Springs Resort, Inc. v.
City of Ukiah, (“Vichy Springs”) (2024) 101 Cal.App.5th 46, 59 (“the
definition of a ‘project’ under section 21065 does not require that a permit be
issued.”).  Petitioner asserts that it was
not required to challenge issuance of a permit as part of a valid CEQA
claim.  Opp. at 20-21.
In Vichy, the project was gun
club’s demolition and construction of a shooting range.  101 Cal.App.5th at 60.  The petition challenged the project under
CEQA, contending that the count erroneously concluded that it had no
responsibility for issuing a discretionary permit that would have triggered
environmental review.  Id. at
60.  The court stated that “the definition
of a ‘project’ under section 21065 does not require that a permit be
issued.  It requires that the proposed
activity ‘involve [] the issuance to a person…of a permit.’”  Id. at 59.  If the activity was subject to t he county’s
authority as alleged, a permit would be required.  Therefore, the petition sufficiently alleged
a CEQA violation.  Id. at 59.  
Vichy does not aid Petitioner
because a permit still must be “involved” under section 21065(c).  In this case, the PLUM Committee’s’ inaction
concerned a report was prepared concerning Real Party’s compliance with the
Jardinette Contract.  The SAP does not
suggest that any permit was involved or required.  
Nor is the PLUM Committee’s inaction an activity undertaken
directly by any public agency, including but not limited to public works
construction, improvements to structures, zoning ordinances and general
plans.  §21065(a); Guidelines
§15378(a)(1).  The PLUM Committee’s
failure to take action on the report is insufficient because “the failure to
act is not itself an activity, even if, as may commonly be true, there are
consequences, possibly including environmental consequences, resulting from the
inactivity.” Lake Norconian Club Found. v Department of Corrections &
Rehabilitation, (“Norconian”) (2019) 39 Cal.App.5th 1044, 1051.  Dem. at 24-25.
In Narconian, the petitioner argued that the
department's “decision not to repair the historic hotel roof in the face of
imminent El Niño rains in 2014” was a “project” requiring preparation and
certification of an environmental impact report (EIR).  39 Cal.App.5th at 1047.  The trial court concluded that the agency’s failure
to seek or allocate funding to maintain the former hotel in the face of its
knowledge that a failure to act would inevitably lead to the destruction of an
historic resource was a project.  Id.
at 1049.  Nonetheless, the petitioner’s
CEQA claim was barred by the statute of limitations.  Id.
The appellate court affirmed on the ground that the
department’s inaction in failing to maintain an historic resource was not a
project subject to CEQA. Id. at 1051. 
“We agree that the failure to act is not
itself an activity, even if, as may commonly be true, there are consequences,
possibly including environmental consequences, resulting from the inactivity.  Id. 
“[T]he continuing failure to make repairs is no such activity and the
issues presented by application of the statute of limitations to such a failure
well illustrates the unworkability of deeming the inactivity a project.” Id.

The court stated that, assuming without deciding that a
project could include an agency’s failure to act when it has a mandatory duty
to do so, the department had no mandatory duty to maintain the former
hotel.  Id. at 1053.  There is no independent duty for an agency to
act to maintain historic property in its possession if not engaging in a
project.  Id.  “Were there a statute directing the
department to maintain or repair the former hotel, the failure to do so would
be correctible by mandate.  But absent
any such statutory duty, the department’s failure to act cannot be deemed a
project or challenged for non-compliance with CEQA.  Id. at 1054.  
Petitioner argues that Norconian is inapposite because the
agency took no steps whatsoever as to a historic building.  In addition to the SAP’s factual allegations
(SAP ¶¶ 12, 49-51, 55, 160-163), the demurrer requests judicial notice of City
actions culminating in the PLUM Committee’s approval by acceptance of the report.
 Opp. at 21.  
Petitioner is referring to the City’s evidence that, on
November 20, 2023, City staff transmitted a report to the City Council that
discussed an October 12, 2023 inspection of the site and an assessment that
found the Jardinette Property “is in compliance with the terms and conditions
of [its] Mills Act Historical Property Contract.”  RJN Ex. G, pp. 2-3.  This report does not convert the City’s
inaction into a project.
Petitioner further argues that Norconian avoided the
question whether agency inaction could be considered a project under CEQA where
there is a mandatory duty to act.  Id.
at 1053-54.  In addition to identifying
various City actions allowing damage and destruction of the Jardinette Property,
the SAP describes the City’s mandatory duties under the Mills Act, the
requirement that Real Party maintain the Property in a “superior condition”, and
the requirement that the Property’s historic character be retained and
preserved.  SAP ¶¶ 41, 42, 45, 47.  Opp. at 21.
Norconian shows that mere inaction by
the City in failing to protect the Jardinette Property cannot be a project not
a project subject to CEQA.  39 Cal.App.5th
at 1051.  Norconian left open the
prospect that an agency’s mandatory statutory duty to maintain an historic
property could be a project as well as enforceable anyway by mandate.  But Petitioner points to no statutory duty
for the City to maintain historic properties. 
The purpose of the Mills Act is to obtain the property owner’s
restoration and maintenance of historic properties.  It is not a mandatory duty for the City to do
so that could even arguably qualify as a project.  Norconian expressly found that section
5014(a), which required the department to formulate policies to preserve and
maintain historic resources, did not impose a duty to maintain the hotel.  Id.
Finally, Petitioner argues that the cause of action is
properly pled as to the Real Party’s actions. 
The SAP alleges that CEQA is triggered because negative environmental
impacts on the Jardinette Property are the result of Real Party’s failures to
protect it.  Real Party allowed the
Jardinette Property to fall into disrepair and conducted unpermitted work on a
historic resource, which also rises to a project under CEQA.  SAP ¶163; Vichy Springs, supra, at
*877-78 (“the project at issue here is not the County’s inaction; it is the
Club’s demolition and construction of the main range”).  Opp. at 21.
An activity taken by a person is a project only if it is supported
by the public agency through contracts, grants, subsidies, loans or other
public assistance.  §21065; Guidelines
§15378(a)(2).   Real Party’s failure to
maintain the Jardinette Property is not a project that is supported by a City
contract or other form of assistance. 
The Jardinette Property has a Mills Act Contract but Real Party’s
failure to maintain it is not supported by contract or other City assistance.
Petitioner fails to set forth an
action that qualifies as a project.  City
inaction is not a project under CEQA.  See
Norconian, supra, 39 Cal.App.5th at 1051.[8]  
 
            F. Conclusion
            The demurrer is
sustained without leave to amend.  An
order to show cause re: dismissal is set for August 15, 2024 at 9:30 a.m.


