 Case Number:  21STCV47149    Hearing Date:   October 25, 2023    Dept:  30 Dept. 30 
Calendar
No. 
Piltan vs. Kaiser, et. al.,
Case No. 21STCV47149
 
Tentative Ruling re: 
Defendant’s Motion to Transfer Venue
 
Defendants John J. Kaiser and Kaiser
Legal Services, Inc. (collectively, Defendants) move to transfer this action to
San Diego County. The motion is opposed by Plaintiff Babak Piltan (Plaintiff).
The motion is denied.
On
timely motion, the court must order a transfer of venue “when the court
designated in the complaint is not the proper court.” (Code Civ. Proc., §§
396b, 397(a).)  A motion to transfer venue on grounds the designated court
is not proper must file and serve the motion before or at the time of filing an
answer, demurer, or motion to strike.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 396b.) 
“Venue is determined based on the complaint on file at the time the motion to
change venue is made.”  (Brown v. Superior Court (1984) 37 Cal.3d
477, 482; Haurat v. Superior Court for Los Angeles County (1966) 241
Cal.App.2d 330, 337 [“Venue is determined on the basis of the complaint as it
stands at the time the motion to change is made, and the plaintiff is not
permitted to make a subsequent election of theories by proposed amendments
thereto”].) 
The general venue rule is
that “the superior court in the county where the defendants or some of them
reside at the commencement of the action is the proper
court for the trial of the action.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 395(a).)
Additionally, “when a plaintiff brings an action against several defendants,
both individual and corporate, in a county in which none of the defendants
reside, an individual defendant has the right to change venue to the county of
his or her residence.” (Fontaine v. Superior Court (2009) 175 Cal.App.4th 830, 837.) In an action
involving personal injuries, a venue is proper where a defendant resides or
where the injuries occurred.   (Code Civ. Proc., §
395(a).)   
The burden is on the moving party to establish facts justifying
the transfer.  (Mission Imports, Inc. v. Superior Court¿(1982) 31
Cal.3d 921, 928.)  Absent “an affirmative showing to the contrary, the
presumption is that the county in which the title of the action shows that it
is brought is, prima facie, the proper county for the commencement and
trial of the action.”  (Ibid.; Fontaine v. Superior Court¿(2009)
175 Cal.App.4th 830, 836.)  The moving party may submit declarations
containing admissible evidence in support of the motion to transfer
venue.  (Mission Imports, supra, 31 Cal.3d at p.
928.)   
Plaintiff’s Complaint asserts claims
against Defendants for breach of contract, legal malpractice, breach of
fiduciary duty, IIED, unjust enrichment, and conversion, arising out of
Defendants’ legal representation of Plaintiff from July 2020 through December
2020. (Comp. ¶¶ 6, 52.)
 
Defendants present evidence that they
both reside in San Diego County. Mr. Kaiser has resided in San Diego County
since the commencement of this litigation.. (Kaiser Decl. ¶ 7.) Kaiser Legal
Services’ principal place of business and mailing address are also located in
San Diego County. (Kaiser Decl. ¶ 8.) Neither defendant maintains any residence
or office in Los Angeles County. (Kaiser Decl. ¶ 9.)
 
It is undisputed that both Defendants
reside in San Diego County. However, as Plaintiff points out, “if a defendant
has contracted to perform an obligation in a particular county, the superior
court in the county where the obligation is to be performed, where the contract
in fact was entered into, or where the defendant or any defendant resides at
the commencement of the action is a proper court for the trial of an action
founded on that obligation, and the county where the obligation is incurred is
the county where it is to be performed, unless there is a special contract in
writing to the contrary.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 395, subd. (a).)  “Allegations in the
complaint relevant to the issues raised by a motion to change venue are
themselves competent evidence upon the questions to be determined.” (Mosby v. Superior Court
(1974) 43 Cal.App.3d 219, 227.)
 
Here, Plaintiff’s claims against
Defendants are based on alleged agreements providing for Defendants’
representation of Plaintiff in Los Angeles Superior Court. (Comp. ¶¶ 7-9.)
Because Defendants’ obligations under the contracts were to be performed in Los
Angeles County, the statutory exception applies, and venue is proper in this
Court. While venue would also be proper in San Diego County, “[w]hen . . . venue is
proper in more
than one
county, a plaintiff may choose among the available options.” (Crestwood
Behavioral Health, Inc. v. Superior Court of Alameda County (2021) 60
Cal.App.5th 1069, 1075.)
 
            Defendants also argue that venue should
be transferred to San Diego based on an arbitration provision in the parties’
engagement letter, providing that “any dispute, claim or controversy arising
out of or relating to this Agreement shall be determined by arbitration
administered by JAMS, and that “sole and exclusive venue for the arbitration
shall be the City of San Diego, California.” (Kaiser Decl. ¶ 10.) This is an
arbitration venue selection clause, and Defendants fail to explain why this provision
should establish venue for purposes of this civil action.