  Case Number:  23VECV02807    Hearing Date:   November 18, 2024    Dept:  W JOSE MERA, et
al. vs MARINE AMIRKHANYAN
 
plaintiff’s
motion to compel attendance and testimony of defendant maureen amirkhanyn and
request for monetary sanctions against defendant and defendant’s counsel of
record 
 
Date of Hearing:        November
18, 2024              Trial
Date:       December
30, 2024  
Department:              W                                            Case
No.:        23VECV02807
 
Moving Party:             Plaintiff Jose Mera

Responding Party:     Defendant
Maureen Amirkhanyn   
 
BACKGROUND
 
On June 28,
2023, Plaintiffs Jose Mera and Mirna Mera filed a complaint against Defendant
Maureen Amirkhanyn (erroneously sued as “Marine Amirkhanyan”) for motor vehicle
negligence. 
 
[Tentative] Ruling
 
Plaintiff’s
Motion to Compel Attendance and Testimony of Defendant Maureen Amirkhanyn is GRANTED;
Plaintiff’s Request for Monetary Sanctions Against Defendant and Defendant’s
Counsel of Record is DENIED. 
 
ANALYSIS
 
Plaintiff Jose Mera moves the court for an order compelling Defendant
Amirkhanyn to attend a deposition and provide testimony as well as request
monetary sanctions against Defendant and Defendant’s counsel of record in the
amount of $3,705.00 for failing to produce Defendant Amirkhanyn and failing to
engage in the meet and confer process. 
 
“If, after
service of a deposition notice, a party . . . without having served a valid
objection . . . fails to appear for examination, or to proceed with it, or to
produce for inspection any document . . . described in the deposition notice,
the party giving notice may move for an order compelling deponent’s attendance
and testimony, and the production . . . of any document . . . described in the
deposition notice.” (CCP §2025.450(a).) Where a motion to compel a party’s
appearance and testimony at deposition is granted, the court shall impose a
monetary sanction in favor of the party who noticed the deposition and against
the deponent, unless the court finds the one subject to sanctions acted with
substantial justification or that other circumstances make the imposition of
the sanction unjust. (CCP §2025.450(g)(1).)
 
Plaintiff
argues they have been trying to depose Defendant since June 2024; however, due
to Defendant’s refusal to appear at the properly noticed depositions, Plaintiff
was forced to take a Certificate of Non-Appearance on July 29, 2024 and file
the instant motion. According to Plaintiff, on June 11, 2024, Plaintiff noticed
Defendant’s deposition for July 3, 2024. (Ortega Decl. ¶4.) On July 1, 2024,
Defense Counsel alerted Plaintiff that they had to reschedule due to conflicts with
their calendar and offered alternative dates to continue the deposition,
including July 29, 2024. (Ortega Decl. ¶5, Exh. A.) On July 2, 2024, Plaintiff
served an Amended Notice for July 29, 2024. (Ortega Decl. ¶6, Exh. B.) On July
26, 2024, Defense Counsel claimed they could not appear for the deposition due
to a personal conflict and sought to continue the deposition of Defendant for
some time in August. (Ortega Decl. ¶7, Exh. C.) Plaintiff’s Counsel responded
that they felt the request was not genuine as Defense Counsel picked that date
and told Defense Counsel they would proceed with the deposition as scheduled.
(Ortega Decl. ¶8, Exh. D.) On July 29, 2024, Plaintiff proceeded to take a
certificate of non-appearance. (Ortega Decl. ¶9, Exh. E.) On September 10,
2024, Plaintiff’s counsel attempted to meet and confer with Defense Counsel
regarding outstanding discovery verifications and reminded Defense Counsel that
Plaintiff would be forced to file the instant motion if Defendant refused to
appear for deposition. (Ortega Decl. ¶10, Exh. F.) Plaintiff attempted to meet
and confer one more time on September 27, 2024 before filing the instant
motion. (Ortega Decl. ¶11, Exh. G.) Counsel for Defendant did not respond.
(Ortega Decl. ¶11.) 
 
In
opposition, Defendant argues they have not refused to appear for a deposition
and are willing to do so. Defendant contends Plaintiff first unilaterally
noticed the deposition of Defendant for July 3, 2024 without any meet and
confer efforts. As a conflict occurred with that date, the parties agreed to
reschedule the deposition for July 29, 2024. (Wright Decl. ¶4.) At the time the
date was selected, Defense Counsel had no conflict. (Wright Decl. ¶5.) However,
subsequent to the issuance of the amended deposition notice, Defense Counsel had
a personal matter come up and was no longer available that date. (Wright Decl.
¶5.) Defense Counsel offered alternative dates in August as well as requested
an extension to respond to written discovery. (Wright Decl. ¶5.) Plaintiff
never responded to Defense Counsel’s alternative dates. (Wright Decl. ¶6.) Defendant
also argues Plaintiff failed to adequately meet and confer regarding the
deposition of Defendant. Defendant claims that the meet and confer efforts were
procedurally defective because the e-mail communications did not include the
e-mail address listed on Defendant’s Consent to Electronic Service and Notice
of Electronic Service Address. (Wright Decl. ¶¶3, 8-9.) Lastly, Defendant
argues Plaintiff should have attempted an Informal Discovery Conference first.
Although not required, it would have resolved the issue without the need for
law and motion. 
 
Regarding the
issue of Plaintiff’s “procedurally defective” meet and confer efforts, the
court recognizes the communications were not included in one of the e-mail
addresses provided in Defendant’s Consent to Electronic Service and Notice of
Electronic Service Address. However, no documents were being served. The
content of the e-mails were strictly in regards to conferring over availability
to depose Defendant. Moreover, as for Defendant’s IDC contention, both parties
agree although not mandatory, the court states it is amenable to participating
in an IDC upon request of all counsel. So while not grounds for denying the
motion, the court (as discussed further below) finds there has not been an
attempt at an informal resolution of this discovery dispute. 
 
Due to the
parties’ inability to resolve this dispute informally, the court Grants Plaintiff’s
Motion to Compel Attendance and Testimony of Defendant Maureen Amirkhanyn. At
the hearing, the parties are to confer over what date works best to depose
Defendant. However, the court DENIES Plaintiff’s request for monetary
sanctions. While Defense Counsel may have offered the July 29, 2024 himself, it
appears both parties failed to work with each other in finding another amenable
date. 
 
Accordingly,
Plaintiff’s Motion to Compel Attendance and Testimony of Defendant Maureen
Amirkhanyn is granted; Plaintiff’s Request for Monetary Sanctions Against
Defendant and Defendant’s Counsel of Record is DENIED. 