  Case Number:  23STCP04414    Hearing Date:   December 13, 2024    Dept:  82  
Dzmitry Shabliuk                                                     Case No. 23STCP04414
 
v.
                                                                    
                                                                        Hearing:
December 13, 2024                        
Steve
Gordon, Director                                            Location:
Stanley Mosk Courthouse
of
the California Department                                  Department: 82
of Motor
Vehicles, et al.                                           Judge: Stephen I. Goorvitch
                                    
 
[Tentative] Order Denying Petition for
Writ of Mandate without Prejudice
  
            
INTRODUCTION 
 
            Petitioner Dzmitry Shabliuk
(“Petitioner”) alleges that he has been a victim of identity theft and never
bought two vehicles—a Toyota Camry and a Toyota Prius—that were transferred to
his name.  (First Amended Petition filed
June 4, 2024 (“FAP”) ¶ 8.)  Petitioner alleges
that he is a cross-country commercial truck driver; he is only intermittently
present at his residence in California; and he has never resided at the
locations where the two subject vehicles were registered.  (FAP ¶¶ 9-14.)  After he received parking tickets in the mail
related to the two vehicles, Petitioner submitted an online complaint to the
Department of Motor Vehicles (the “DMV”). 
(See ibid.) 
 
            Petitioner now seeks a writ of
traditional mandate directing the DMV to immediately correct and remove “any
records associating [him] with the fraudulent sale of the vehicle” and “provide
written confirmation . . . that no further action will be taken against [his]
driver’s license or credit due to this matter.” 
(Petitioner’s Opening Brief filed October 8, 2024 (“OB”) at 5.)  Petitioner also prays for: (1) “the court to
refer this matter to criminal court for the prosecution of the Defendants on
charges of identity theft, fraud, and possession of stolen license plates;” (2)
“Defendants (Prior owner and current owner of subject vehicles be ordered to
pay Plaintiff the amount of money of parking violations and tolls encurred
[sic] when judgment is entered;” and (3) “Defendants California Department of
Motor Vehicles be ordered to pay to Plaintiff compensatory damages in the
amount of $10,000, court fees, attorney fees and costs, incurred in bringing
this civil action, and as allowed by law.” 
(FAP Prayer ¶¶ 1-3.)  The court
denies this petition without prejudice because Petitioner does not prove that
he was the victim of identity theft.  The
court need not reach the issue whether Petitioner was required to identify and
name the true owner(s) of the vehicles as respondents in this case.  
 
STANDARD OF REVIEW
 
There are two essential requirements to the issuance of an ordinary writ
of mandate under Code of Civil Procedure section 1085: (1) A clear, present,
and ministerial duty on the part of the respondent, and (2) A clear, present,
and beneficial right on the part of the petitioner to the performance of that
duty. (California Ass’n for Health
Services at Home v. Department of Health Services (2007) 148 Cal.App.4th
696, 704.)  “An action in ordinary mandamus is proper where … the claim is
that an agency has failed to act as required by law.”  (Id. at 705.)  “Generally, mandamus is available to compel a public agency’s
performance or to correct an agency’s abuse of discretion when the action being
compelled or corrected is ministerial.”  (AIDS
Healthcare Foundation v. Los Angeles County Dept. of Public Health (2011)
197 Cal.App.4th 693, 700.)   
 
Normally, mandate will not
lie to control a public agency’s discretion, that is to say, force the exercise
of discretion in a particular manner. However, it will lie to correct abuses of
discretion. In determining whether a public agency has abused its discretion,
the court may not substitute its judgment for that of the agency, and if
reasonable minds may disagree as to the wisdom of the agency’s action, its
determination must be upheld. A court must ask whether the public agency's
action was arbitrary, capricious, or entirely lacking in evidentiary support,
or whether the agency failed to follow the procedure and give the notices the
law requires.  
 
(County of Los Angeles v. City of
Los Angeles (2013) 214 Cal.App.4th 643, 654.)
 
The petitioner
“bears the burden of proof in a mandate proceeding brought under Code of Civil
Procedure section 1085.”  (California Correctional Peace Officers Assn.
v. State Personnel Bd. (1995) 10 Cal.4th 1133, 1154.)  A reviewing court “will not act as counsel
for either party to an appeal and will not assume the task of initiating and
prosecuting a search of the record for any purpose of discovering errors not
pointed out in the briefs.” (Fox v.
Erickson (1950) 99 Cal.App.2d 740, 742.) 
“When an appellant fails to raise a point, or asserts it but fails to
support it with reasoned argument and citations to authority, we treat the
point as waived.”  (Nelson v. Avondale
HOA (2009) 172 Cal.App.4th 857, 862-863.)
 
DISCUSSION 
 
            Petitioner alleges
that “the current owner(s) … registered the vehicles under Plaintiff's name and
address without Plaintiff’s prior knowledge and consent.”  (FAP ¶ 4.) 
Petitioner seeks a writ of traditional mandate directing the Department
to immediately correct and remove “any records associating [him] with the
fraudulent sale of the vehicle” and “provide written confirmation . . . that no
further action will be taken against [his] driver’s license or credit due to
this matter.”  (OB 5.)  
 
With respect to
the Toyota Camry, the petition indicates that Petitioner submitted an online
complaint to the Department after receiving the parking tickets in the mail. (FAP
Exh. C.) In correspondence dated August 21, 2023, the Department advised that
an Internet Release of Liability (“IRL”) was submitted indicating that the
vehicle was sold to Petitioner on January 8, 2021.  (See ibid.)  The Department advised that the vehicle
record cannot be updated until Petitioner provides a court order, evidence of
identity theft, or a valid Notice of Transfer and Release of Liability.  (See ibid.)  With respect to the Toyota Prius Hybrid, the
Vehicle History Report attached to the petition identifies Petitioner as the
“buyer” of the vehicle.  (See FAP Exh.
E.)  
 


 
A
transfer of title to a vehicle requires either of the following to occur: 
 
(1) The transferor has made proper endorsement
and delivery of the certificate of ownership to the transferee as provided in
this code and the transferee has delivered to the department or has placed the
certificate in the United States mail addressed to the department when and as
required under this code with the proper transfer fee, together with the amount
required to be paid under Part 1 (commencing with Section 6001), Division 2 of
the Revenue and Taxation Code with respect to the use by the transferee of the
vehicle, and thereby makes application for a transfer of registration except as
otherwise provided in Sections
5905, 5906, 5907, and 5908.  (2) The
transferor has delivered to the department or has placed in the United States
mail addressed to the department the appropriate documents for the registration
or transfer of registration of the vehicle pursuant to the sale or transfer
except as provided in Section 5602.  
 
(Veh. Code § 5600.)  Here, Petitioner has not submitted sufficient
evidence to establish that the DMV improperly transferred title of the vehicles
to Petitioner.  While Petitioner claims
he was the victim of identity theft, he has not submitted evidence to support
that assertion.  The petitions for writ
of mandate are not verified under penalty of perjury and Petitioner did not
attach a sworn declaration or other competent evidence to his opening brief.[1]  Even Petitioner’s statement under penalty of
perjury may not be sufficient.  Further,
Petitioner has not cited any statute or regulation suggesting that the DMV has
a ministerial duty to change its records under the circumstances of this case.  Based upon the foregoing, the court denies the
petition for writ of mandate without prejudice. 

 
            Respondent’s counsel also argues
that Petitioner failed to identify and name indispensable parties, viz.,
the true owner(s) of the vehicles.  If a party is necessary pursuant to Code of Civil
Procedure section 389(a) and “cannot be made a party,
the court shall determine whether in equity and good conscience the action
should proceed among the parties before it, or should be dismissed without
prejudice, the absent person being thus regarded as indispensable.”  (Code Civ. Proc. § 389(b).)  It is unclear whether dismissal is necessary
under this standard.  Petitioner merely
seeks to have his name removed from title to the vehicles and to remove the
fines from his record.[2]  In fact, Petitioner named Doe respondents in
this case because he does not know the true identities of the person(s)
involved.  Regardless, the court need not
address this issue at this stage because the court denies the petition on the
merits.  
 


 
CONCLUSION AND ORDER
 
Based upon the foregoing, the court orders as follows:
 
1.         The petition for writ of
mandate is denied.
 
2.         This order is without
prejudice.  Petitioner may file a new
petition for writ of mandate once he develops sufficient evidence to prove his
claim that he was a victim of identity theft. 
The court orders Petitioner to meet-and-confer with the DMV’s counsel
before filing any new petition to determine whether there might be a resolution
without litigation.
 
3.         Respondent’s counsel
shall prepare and lodge a proposed judgment after providing a copy to
Petitioner.
 
4.         Respondent’s counsel
shall provide notice and file proof of service with the court.
 
 
IT IS SO ORDERED
 

Dated:  December 9, 2024                                          ____________________________
                                                                                    Stephen
I. Goorvitch
                                                                                    Superior
Court Judge 
 


