 Case Number:  24STCP01023    Hearing Date:   December 13, 2024    Dept:  82 California Charter Schools                                      Case No. 24STCP01023
Association                
 
v.                                                                     Hearing:
December 13, 2024
                                                                        Location:
Stanley Mosk Courthouse
Los
Angeles Unified School                                     Department:
82                                     

District,
et al.                                                             Judge:
Stephen I. Goorvitch                                                
[Tentative] Order Granting in Part and
Denying in Part
Motion to Augment Administrative Record 
 
INTRODUCTION 
 
The
California Charter Schools Association (“Petitioner”) filed this verified
petition for writ of mandate and complaint for declaratory relief against the
Los Angeles Unified School District (the “District”) and its Board of Education
(collectively, “Respondents”). 
Proposition 39 imposes a mandatory duty on each school district to make
facilities available to charter schools operating in the district.  The District enacted a policy that the
District will avoid Proposition 39 co-locations that are located on certain
sites, compromise a District school’s capacity to serve neighborhood children,
negatively impact student safety, and actively deter students from attending
District schools provided that doing so is “operationally feasible and
permitted by law,” i.e., permitted under Proposition 39.  Petitioner seeks a writ requiring the
District to rescind this policy, among other things, arguing that the policy
violates Proposition 39.  Now, Petitioner moves to “augment” the administrative record.  Respondents oppose the motion.  At heart, this is largely a motion to
“correct” the administrative record because Respondents omit materials concerning
the policy that were before the Board. 
The motion is granted in part and denied in part.  
 
BACKGROUND 
 
A.        Proposition 39
 
            “In 2000, California voters enacted
Proposition 39, which requires school districts to share their facilities with
charter schools so that charter school students have access to facilities
‘reasonably equivalent’ to those available to other public school
students.”  (California Charter
Schools Assn. v. Los Angeles Unified School District (2015) 60 Cal.4th
1221, 1226.)  Prior to Proposition 39,
“charter schools had access only to public school facilities that districts
weren't using.”  (Id. at
1228.)  Proposition 39 “changed the way
school districts must share facilities with charter schools” through amendments
to Education Code section 47614.  (Ibid.)
 
In relevant part, section 47614 provides
as follows:
 
(a) The intent of the people in amending Section
47614 is that public school facilities should be shared fairly among all public
school pupils, including those in charter schools.
 
(b) Each school district shall make available, to
each charter school operating in the school district, facilities sufficient for
the charter school to accommodate all of the charter school’s in-district
students in conditions reasonably equivalent to those in which the students
would be accommodated if they were attending other public schools of the
district. Facilities provided shall be contiguous, furnished, and equipped, and
shall remain the property of the school district. The school district shall
make reasonable efforts to provide the charter school with facilities near to
where the charter school wishes to locate, and shall not move the charter
school unnecessarily.
 
The
State Board of Education subsequently issued regulations governing the
implementation of section 47614.  (5 Cal.
Code of Regs., §§ 11969.1-11969.9.)  The
regulations establish an annual process by which a charter school may submit a
“written facilities request to the school district.”  (§ 11969.9(b).)  The California Supreme Court has summarized
these procedures as follows: 
 
To be eligible for the
allocation of classrooms and other space in public schools, a charter school
must submit a request for facilities documenting its projected ADA
[average daily attendance] and other pertinent information by November 1 of the
year before the school year for which the facilities are requested. (§ 11969.9,
subds. (b), (c).) By the following February 1, the school district receiving
the request must make a preliminary space allocation proposal that “[at] a
minimum” “shall include (1) the projections of in-district classroom ADA on
which the proposal is based, (2) the specific location or locations of the
space, (3) all conditions pertaining to the space, including a draft of any
proposed agreement pertaining to the charter school’s use of the space, and (4)
the projected pro rata share amount and a description of the methodology used
to determine that amount. The district shall also provide the charter school a
list and description of the comparison group schools used in developing its
preliminary proposal, and a description of the differences between the
preliminary proposal and the charter school’s facilities request....” (Id., subd. (f).) After the charter school has had
an opportunity to respond to the proposal, the district must make a final space
offer to the charter school by April 1, and the charter school must notify the
District whether it accepts the offer within 30 days or by May 1, whichever is
later. (Id., subds. (g)-(i).)  
 
(California
Charter Schools Assn., supra, 60 Cal.4th at 1231.)  A charter school dissatisfied with the school
district’s response to a request for facilities under Proposition 39 may file a
petition for writ of ordinary mandate challenging the district’s decision.  (See generally Ridgecrest Charter School v. Sierra Sands Unified School Dist. (2005) 130 Cal.App.4th 986, 1002-03.) 

 
B.        The District’s Proposition 39
Charter Schools Co-Location Policy
 
            On
September 27, 2023, District’s Board of Education (the “Board”) passed a
resolution titled “Creating a Charter Schools Co-Location Policy to Mitigate
Impacts Caused by Proposition 39” (“Resolution”).  As amended, the Resolution states that “[t]he
co-location of charter schools pursuant to Proposition 39, is often detrimental
to District schools and the students they educate, and has a tangible negative
impact on the District’s ability to maintain and grow important priorities
including, but not limited to, Black Student Achievement Program (BSAP),
Priority Schools, and Community Schools.” 
Accordingly, the Board resolved that the Superintendent report back with
a Proposition
39 Charter Schools Co-Location Policy, to be adopted by the Board.  The Resolution states:
 
The Policy, as
operationally feasible and permitted by law, shall enumerate
clear guidelines that avoid Proposition 39 co-locations
that: (1) are on school sites with the District’s 100 Priority Schools, BSAP
schools, and Community Schools, (2) compromise District schools’ capacity to
serve neighborhood children, and/or (3) result in grade span arrangements that
negatively impact student safety and build charter school pipelines that
actively deter students from attending District schools, all so that the District
can focus on supporting its most fragile students and schools, key programs,
and student safety.  
 
(FAP
¶ 12, Exh. A, emphasis added.)  
 
The
District’s staff then developed the “Proposition 39 Charter Schools Co-Location
Policy” (the “Policy”) as directed by the Resolution.  (Id. ¶ 13.)  Petitioner opposed the Policy and, in a
letter to the Board, argued that it would violate Proposition 39 and have
significant negative impacts on charter schools.  (Id. ¶ 14; see also Dell’Aquila
Decl. Exh. 2-4.)
 
            The Policy was considered at a Board
meeting held on February 13, 2024.  On
that date, Board President Jackie Goldberg stated that “under Prop. 39 there
are so many legal rules that are required” and “our District staff said that we
had to continuously add in the words, as ‘operationally feasible and permitted
by the law’ [which] means [] that Prop. 39 overrules everything.”  (FAP ¶ 76.)  
 
            On March 19, 2024, by a 4-to-3 vote,
the Board approved the Policy.  (Id. ¶
17, Exh. B.)  Section 2 states:  
 
As operationally
feasible and permitted by law, as so that the District can focus on
supporting its most fragile students and schools, key programs, mandates, and
student safety, the District avoids Proposition 39 co-locations that (pursuant
to the resolution):
 
·       Are on school
sites with the District’s Priority Schools, [Black Student Achievement Plan]
schools, and/or Community Schools;
·       Compromise a
District school’s capacity to serve neighborhood children, and/or
·       Result in grade
span arrangements that negatively impact student safety and build charter
school pipelines that actively deter students from attending District schools.
 
Each of the facts
above are determined based on the specific facts and circumstances of each
particular situation.  Additional
performance indicators may be considered as part of the District’s analysis.
 
(Ibid.,
footnote omitted.)  This policy applies
to new Proposition 39 co-locations.  (Ibid.)  The policy also applies to existing
Proposition 39 co-locations if (1) a charter school requests “additional or
different … school sites,” or (2) “existing conditions change for reasons
including, but not limited to, insufficient space, addition of grade levels,
and other material revisions to a charter school’s operative charter.”  (Ibid.)

            C.        The
Administrative Record 
 
            On
April 17, 2024, Petitioner reqeusted that the District prepare the
administrative record.  (See Stromberg
Decl. ¶ 2, Exh. A.)  Petitioner requested
that the record include: (i) the final adopted Policy along with prior drafts;
(ii) the final adopted Resolution along with prior drafts; (iii) agendas,
minutes, stamped orders of business, and transcripts for each Board meeting, Committee
of the Whole (“COTW”) meeting, and Charter School Committee meeting at which
the Policy and/or Resolution were considered; (iv) LAUSD staff reports,
presentation materials, and drafts thereof prepared for those meetings; (v)
correspondence from members of the public to LAUSD related to the Policy and/or
Resolution; (vi) internal LAUSD staff and Board communications related to the
Policy and/or Resolution; and (vii) all documents relied upon by LAUSD staff in
preparing staff reports and presentation materials.  (See ibid.)  Petitioner acknowledged that it would be
responsible for the cost of preparing the record and offered to retain a court
reporter to prepare the meeting transcripts described in the letter.  (See ibid.)
 
            On
June 5, 2024, Respondents’ counsel indicated that the District was “amenable”
to Petitioner’s proposal to obtain a court report to prepare certified
transcripts of the Board and Committee meetings.  (See id. Exh. D at pp. 31-32.)  Then, on October 25, 2024, Respondents’
counsel provided a proposed administrative record index consisting of the
following categories: (i) orders of business for the Board’s meetings of February
13 and March 19, 2024, including stamped versions; (2) meeting minutes for the Board
meeting of March 19, 2024; (3) Tab 11 to the Board’s meeting of February 13,
2024, which includes a Board report and the then-proposed Policy; and (4) Recorded
videos (in both English and Spanish) of the Board meetings of February 13 and
March 19, 2024.  (See Stromberg Decl., Exh.
C.)  The District’s proposed record omitted
the transcripts the District previously agreed to allow Petitioner to prepare.  (See ibid.)  
 
LEGAL STANDARD 
 
This case involves a challenge to a quasi-legislative act, which is one
that “involve[s] the adoption of rules of general application on the basis of
broad public policy.”  (California
Manufacturers & Technology Assn. v. Office of Environmental Health Hazard
Assessment (2023) 89 Cal.App.5th 756, 776.) 
 
A court cannot inquire into the wisdom of a legislative act or review the
merits of a local government’s policy decisions.  Judicial review of a
legislative act under Code of Civil Procedure section 1085 is limited to determining whether the
public agency’s action was arbitrary, capricious, entirely without evidentiary
support, or procedurally unfair.  
 
(Federation of Hillside & Canyon Assns.
V. City of Los Angeles (2004) 126 Cal.App.4th 1180, 1195 [internal
citations omitted].)   Further, the court
“must ensure that the agency adequately considered all relevant factors, and
demonstrated a rational connection between those factors, the choice made, and
the purposes of the enabling legislation.” 
(Coachella Valley Unified School Dist. v. State of California (2009)
176 Cal.App.4th 93, 121.)  
 
            In
traditional mandamus actions challenging quasi-legislative decisions, evidence
outside the record—“extra-record evidence”—generally is not admissible.  (See Carrancho
v. California Air Resources Board (2003) 111 Cal.App.4th 1255, 1269.)  There are three exceptions to this rule.  
 
First, this restriction
does not apply to ministerial or informal administrative actions.  As stated by our Supreme Court, “we will
continue to allow admission of extra-record evidence in traditional mandamus
actions challenging ministerial or informal administrative actions if the facts
are in dispute.”  (Western States Petroleum Assn. v. Superior Court (1995) 9 Cal.4th
559, 576.)  This is because “there is
often little or no administrative record in such cases.”  (Id. at 575.)  
 
Second, there is
an exception for extra-record evidence in traditional mandamus proceedings
involving quasi-legislative decisions “in which (1) the evidence in question
existed before the agency made its decision, and (2) it
was not possible in the exercise of reasonable diligence to present this
evidence to the agency before the
decision was made so that it could be considered and included in the
administrative record.”  (Id.
at 578)  
 
Third,
extra-record evidence may be
admissible and “relevant to (1) issues other than the validity of the agency’s
quasi-legislative decision, such as the petitioner’s standing and capacity to
sue, (2) affirmative defenses such as laches, estoppel and res judicata, (3)
the accuracy of the administrative record, (4) procedural unfairness, and (5)
agency misconduct.”  (Id. at 579,
fn. 5.)  
 
EVIDENTIARY ISSUES 
 
            Respondents request judicial notice of the District’s Rules
of the Board of Education, Rule 141, entitled “Appointment of Committees.”  Petitioner does not object.  The court grants the request under Evidence
Code section 452(b).   
 
DISCUSSION 
 
Although styled a motion “to augment,” effectively, Petitioner argues
that the record prepared by Respondent should be “corrected” to include certain
materials.  In a mandamus proceeding in which
a formal administrative record is prepared, the petitioner may object that the
record prepared by the agency omits documents that are part of the record.  (Mejia
v. City of Los Angeles (2005) 130 Cal.App.4th 322, 336, fn. 5.)  Petitioner contends that the administrative
record prepared by Respondents is “woefully inadequate” and should include “all
of the materials that were before the Board regarding the Policy, including
materials related to the Board’s adoption of the [September 27, 2023] Resolution,
the Policy’s quasi-legislative genesis.” 
(Motion to Augment (“Mot.”) 5.)  The
court agrees as a general matter.     
 
The parties disagree about the scope of the administrative record in a
traditional mandate proceeding challenging a quasi-legislative act, such as the
Board’s adoption of the Policy.  (See Mot.
9-10 and Oppo. 7-9.)  Since the Policy
was adopted after a formal meeting of the Board, the “informal action”
exception from Western States does not apply.  Accordingly, the administrative record
should include public comments, staff reports, and similar
materials that were presented to the Board in connection with the public
meetings at which the Board decided to adopt the Policy.  (See Carrancho, supra, 111 Cal.App.4th
at 1270.)  In addition, the administrative
record should include additional materials, including legislative history.    
 
Respondents contend that “other than the Policy itself and documents
relating to and evidencing its adoption by the Board, no documents are relevant
to this action.”  (Oppo. 7.)  Respondents argue for a narrow version of the
record on the grounds that “[t]he issue that [Petitioner] raises in the FAP is
whether the Policy is a facial violation of Proposition 39.”  (Ibid.)  The court disagrees that the record is so
narrow.  In this writ action, the court
will decide whether the Board’s adoption of the Policy was “arbitrary,
capricious, entirely lacking in evidentiary support, or unlawfully and
procedurally unfair,” and whether the Board “considered all relevant factors,
and [] demonstrated a rational connection between those factors, the choice
made, and the purposes of” Proposition 39. (Western States, supra, 9
Cal.4th at 574; Coachella Valley Unif. School Dist. v. State (2009) 176
Cal.App.4th 93, 121.)  Therefore, the
court must consider the evidence supporting (or contradicting) the decision.  Further, to the extent there are any
ambiguities in the Policy, the court may consider its legislative history.  (Los Angeles Unified School Dist. v.
Superior Ct. (2023) 14 Cal.5th 758, 768.)  
 
In addition, because the Policy is akin to a regulation, the
Administrative Procedures Act, while not controlling, provides guidance on the types
of documents that may be included in the record.  In actions challenging regulations under the
Administrative Procedure Act, evidence is limited to the “rulemaking file”
before the agency. (See Gov. Code § 11350(d).) The rulemaking includes, but is
not limited to, “[a]ll data and other factual information, any studies or
reports, and written comments submitted to the agency in connection with the
adoption … of the regulation.” (Id. § 11347.3(b)(6).)  In addition, the record may include “[a]
transcript, recording, or minutes of any public hearing connected with the
adoption, amendment, or repeal of the regulation.”  (Id. § 11347.3(b)(8).)  
 
The court applies
these principles to the documents that Petitioner seeks to add to the record.  Petitioner
has filed a proposed index of the documents and provided copies on a thumb
drive.  (See Stromberg Decl. ¶ 8, Exh.
5.)  The proposed index includes various
categories of documents grouped in Sections A through G and numbered 1 through 100.

 
A.        Documents Included in the
Administrative Record – GRANTED
 
The following documents are included in the administrative record: 2, 3,
18, 19, 20, and 37.  With respect to at
least one of these documents, Petitioner raises concerns whether the
administrative record contains the entirety of the document and all related
information.  These documents clearly
should be included in the administrative record in their entirety.  Accordingly, the motion is granted in this
respect.  
 
B.        Draft Proposition 39
Co-Location Policy – GRANTED 
 
Document Number 1 is a “Draft Proposition 39 Co-Location Policy”
considered at meeting of January 30, 2024. 
This draft is part of the legislative history of the Policy and should
be included in the record.  (See First
Amended Petition (“FAP”) ¶ 71.)  
C.        Resolution Drafts,
Proposed Amendments, and Final Version – GRANTED 
 
Document Numbers 4 through 8 are draft and final Board resolutions titled “Creating a Charter Schools Co-Location Policy to Mitigate
Impacts Caused by Proposition 39” (the “Resolution”).  As amended, the Resolution states:
 
The co-location
of charter schools pursuant to Proposition 39, is often detrimental to District
schools and the students they educate, and has a tangible negative impact on
the District’s ability to maintain and grow important priorities including, but
not limited to, Black Student Achievement Program (BSAP), Priority Schools, and
Community Schools.
 
(Stromberg Decl. Exh. 8 at ¶ 26.)  Accordingly, the Board resolved that the
Superintendent report back with a Proposition 39 Charter Schools Co-Location
Policy, to be adopted by the Board. (FAP ¶ 12, Exh. A.)  The Policy that was ultimately adopted by the
Board restates the Resolution’s findings and acknowledges that the Resolution
“direct[ed] the development of [the] Policy.” 
The Policy cites the Resolution when defining the circumstances under
which LAUSD must “avoid” colocations at certain LAUSD campuses.  (See Proposed Record, Document No. 3
at 1, 3.)  
 
Clearly, the Resolution and the drafts thereof are important
parts of the legislative history of the Policy. 
Respondents’ arguments for excluding the Resolution are not
persuasive.  (Oppo. 8.)  While the plain language of the Policy is
contested, the legislative history of the Policy is relevant for context and to
the extent there are any ambiguities in the Policy.  Accordingly, the motion is granted in this
respect.  
 
D.        Agendas, Minutes, and
Stamped Orders of Business – GRANTED 
 
Document Numbers 8 through 17 are agendas, minutes, and stamped orders
of business for meetings of the Board, Charter School Committee, and Committee at
which the Resolution or Policy, or drafts thereof, were considered.  These documents are part of the legislative
history of the Policy and should be included in the record.
 
E.         Meeting Transcripts –
GRANTED 
 
Documents Numbers 21 through 30 are transcripts of meetings of the
Board, Charter School Committee, and “Committee of the Whole.”  Petitioner represents that the Resolution or
Policy, or drafts thereof, were considered by the Board or its Committees at
these meetings.  (See Mot. 11-12;
Stromberg Decl. Exh. F.)  Respondents do
not argue or show that Petitioner is incorrect. 
Indeed, Respondents consented to Petitioner’s preparation of the Board
meetings at which the Resolution or Policy was discussed, beginning in June
2023.  (Stromberg Decl. Exh. D at pp.
31-32.)  Respondents state that “upon
review of the transcripts, the District identified errors that render them
unreliable.”  (Oppo. 9:2-3.)  However, in their opposition brief, Respondents
have not identified the alleged errors in the transcript.  Moreover, Respondents could have prepared the
transcripts themselves, but they elected not to do so.  Accordingly, the motion is granted in this
respect.[1]
 
F.         Staff Reports, Presentation Materials,
and LAUSD Documents – GRANTED 
 
Petitioner seeks to include Document Numbers 31 through 36 in the
administrative record.  The documents are
as follows:
 
Numbers 31 and 34 through 36 – District staff presentation materials for
meetings of the “Committee of the Whole” or the Charter School Committee at
which the Resolution or Policy were considered. 

 
Number 32 – An Operational, Policy & Student Impact Statement dated
September 13, 2023, prepared by the District’s staff for the Board prior to its
consideration of the Resolution at the “Committee of the Whole” meeting held on
September 19, 2023.  
 
Number 33 – An attendance list for item Number 6 of the Board’s
September 26, 2023, regular meeting, at which the Resolution or Policy were
considered.  
 
These documents reflect information the Board may have considered, as
well as the legislative history of the policy. 
Respondents argue that Petitioner has not shown that the “staff reports
and staff presentation materials … were considered by the entire Board when
adopting the Policy.”  (Oppo. 8.)  The court is skeptical of this argument given
the nature of the materials.  For
example, Number 32 is addressed to “Members, Board of Education.”  (Stromberg Decl. Exh. 32.)  Other exhibits appear to be presentations to
the “Charter Committee.”  (Id.
Exhs. 31, 35, 36.)  Nevertheless,
Respondents may develop their arguments in their briefing on the writ
petition.  
 
Respondents also argue that the staff reports and presentation materials
“may also reflect individual Board members’ thought processes and motives, and
are therefore inappropriate for inclusion” in the record.  (Oppo. 12.) 
The mental processes principle
“precludes any judicially authorized inquiry into the subjective motives or
mental processes of legislators.”  (County of Los
Angeles v. Superior Court (1975) 13 Cal. 3d 721, 726.)  
 
[T]he doctrine which
precludes judicial delving into the subjective mental processes of individual
legislators is a corollary of the related legal principle which establishes
that the validity of a legislative act does not depend on the subjective
motivation of its draftsmen but rests instead on the objective effect of the
legislative terms.
 
(Id. at 727.)  These
principles may be relevant to the court’s ruling on the writ petition and
determination of the validity of the Policy. 
However, these principles do not support Respondents’ position that
staff reports and presentation materials should be excluded from the
administrative record.  To the contrary, to
the extent the
Policy’s language “permits more than one reasonable interpretation,” this
legislative history may be considered by the court.  (Los Angeles Unified School Dist., supra,
14 Cal.5th at 768.)  Accordingly, the
motion is granted with respect to Numbers 31 through 36.
 
            G.        Lists
of Schools – GRANTED           
 
Documents Numbers 38 through 40 are certain tables listing BSAP,
priority, and community schools that Petitioner obtained from a public records
request.  Petitioner has not submitted
evidence that these tables were considered by the relevant Committees or the
Board in connection with the adoptions of the Resolution or the Policy.  However, they could be relevant to
Petitioner’s argument that “as applied” this policy violates Proposition 39 by foreclosing
co-locations to charter schools. 
Therefore, the court grants the motion with respect to these
documents.  
 
H.        Public Correspondence
 
1.         Document Numbers 41 through 49 and 60 –
DENIED 
 
Document Numbers 41 through 49 and 60 are emails between Board President
Jackie Goldberg’s office and representatives of United Teachers Los Angeles (“UTLA”)
and the California Teachers Association (“CTA”).  Petitioner does not provide any evidence that
these emails were presented to, or considered by, the entire Board or its
Committees in connection with the adoption of the Resolution or the
Policy.  Petitioner has not discussed the
contents of these emails or explained in sufficient detail why Petitioner
contends that these specific emails should be part of the record.  (See e.g. Mot. 13-14.)  Petitioner also has not developed an argument
for augmenting the record with these documents under any of the exceptions
discussed in Western States.  To
the extent the correspondence is offered to prove the “subjective motives or mental processes” of Board President Goldberg, the
correspondence is not relevant to judicial review of the Policy.  (See County of Los Angeles v. Superior
Court (1975) 13 Cal. 3d 721, 726.)  Accordingly, the motion is denied with
respect to these documents.    
 
2.         Documents Nos. 50-59,
61-86 – GRANTED IN PART; DENIED IN PART
 
Document Numbers 50 through 59 and 61 through 86 include a wide variety
of correspondence related to the Resolution or Policy.  Some of the correspondence was apparently sent
to the entire Board, while some was not. 
Some attachments to emails are not included in Petitioner’s thumb drive
and have not been reviewed by the court. 
Petitioner has not discussed the contents of this correspondence in much
detail and, in some cases, not at all.  (See
e.g. Mot. 13-14.)  Petitioner also
has not developed an argument for augmenting the record with these documents
pursuant to any of the exceptions discussed in Western States.  To the extent the correspondence is offered
to prove the “subjective motives or
mental processes” of any Board member, the correspondence is not relevant to
judicial review of the Policy.  (County of Los
Angeles v. Superior Court (1975) 13 Cal. 3d 721, 726.)  
 
The court grants the motion with respect to the following documents
because they were correspondence addressed to the Board or reflects the Board’s
statements about the policy: 50, 51, 54, 56 through 59, 61 through 63, 65
through 67, 69 through 78, and 80 through 86. 

 
The court denies the motion with respect to the following documents
because Petitioner has not included the relevant attachments or does not
establish that the Board considered these materials: 52, 53, 55, 64, 68, and
79.  
 
I.          Internal LAUSD
Correspondence – DENIED 
 
            Document Numbers 87
through 100 are internal LAUSD correspondence related to the Resolution or the
Policy.  Some attachments to emails are
not included in Petitioner’s thumb drive and have not been reviewed by the
court.  Petitioner has not discussed the
contents of this correspondence in sufficient detail or explained adequately why
Petitioner contends that any specific document should be part of the
record.  (Mot. 13-14.)  Petitioner also has not developed an argument
for augmenting the record with these documents pursuant to any of the
exceptions under Western States. 
To the extent the correspondence is offered to prove the “subjective motives or mental processes” of
any Board member, the correspondence is not relevant to judicial review of the
Policy.  (County of Los
Angeles v. Superior Court (1975) 13 Cal. 3d 721, 726.)  Accordingly, Petitioner
has not proven that these documents should be included in the administrative record.  
 
                        J.         Respondents Has Not Identified Any
Privileged or Confidential Materials in Petitioner’s Proposed Record 
 
Respondents argue that certain documents that
Petitioner seeks to add to the record “may” include privileged or confidential
information.  (Oppo. 12-13.)  The party
claiming a privilege bears the burden of establishing the “preliminary facts”
necessary to demonstrate that the privilege applies.  (Department of Motor Vehicles v.
Superior Court (2002) 100 Cal.App.4th 363, 370.)  It appears that Respondents have access to
all the documents included in Petitioner’s index and thumb drive.  Respondents do not claim otherwise.  Indeed, Petitioner obtained many of the
documents from Respondents pursuant to public records requests.  Nonetheless, Respondents do not identify
which parts of the documents are purportedly subject to privilege and they
provide insufficient legal analysis establishing that a privilege applies to
any specific document (or part thereof). 
Accordingly, Respondents have not satisified their initial burden to
establish that any of the documents that Petitioner seeks to add to the record
are privileged.  In light of this
conclusion, the court need not consider Petitioner’s argument that Respondents
have waived the asserted privileges.  (See
Reply 8-10.)
 


 
CONCLUSION AND ORDER 
 
            Based
upon the foregoing, the court orders as follows:
 
            1.         Petitioner’s motion is denied with
respect to the following documents: 41 through 49, 52, 53, 55, 60, 64, 68, 79
and 87 through 100.  
 
            2.         Petitioner’s motion is granted with
respect to the remaining documents.
 
            3.         Petitioner’s counsel shall provide
notice and file proof of service with the court.
 
 
IT IS SO ORDERED
 
 
Dated:  December 13, 2024                                        ___________________________
                                                                                    Stephen
I. Goorvitch
                                                                                    Superior
Court Judge 
 


