  Case Number:  22STCV37412    Hearing Date:   April 16, 2024    Dept:  78  Superior Court of CaliforniaCounty of Los AngelesDepartment 78WINDSOR TERRACE HEALTHCARE, LLC, Plaintiff, vs.LAWRENCE FEIGEN, et al. Defendants. Case No.: 22STCV37412 Hearing Date: April 16, 2024 [TENTATIVE] RULING RE: MOTION FOR SUMMARY ADJUDICATION FILED BY CROSS-COMPLAINANT COMMERCIAL LOAN SERVICING, LLC.Cross-Complainant CLS’s motion for summary adjudication is GRANTED as to the first through fourth causes of action in the Cross-Complaint.Moving party to provide notice and to file proof of service of such notice.FACTUAL BACKGROUNDThis is a motion for summary adjudication on the Cross-Complaint filed by Cross-Complainant Commercial Loan Servicing, LLC (CLS) against Defendants Lawrence Feigen (Feigen), Jeffrey Ahlholm (Alholm), and SA Hospital Real Estate Holdings-Jefferson, LLC (SA Hospital). CLS brought causes of action for breach of contract, breach of guaranty, money due, money lent, intentional misrepresentation, negligent misrepresentation, false promise, promissory estoppel and equitable indemnity.CLS alleges that in 2022, Cross-Defendants convinced CLS, an entity operated by Ray and Srinivas Yalamanchili (the Yalamanchilis), to loan a total of $7,500,000 to SA Hospital by offering and providing (1) a deed of trust for real property in Missouri (First DOT), (2) a second deed of trust for real property located in California, which is the subject of the Complaint filed by Plaintiffs Windsor Terrace Healthcare, LLC and Windsor Healthcare Sepulveda, LLC, (3) a personal guaranty from Feigen, and (4) a personal guaranty from Ahlholm. (Cross-Compl., ¶1.) Cross-Defendants first borrowed $6 million from CLS in January 2022. (Id., ¶16.) SA Hospital failed to make payments as required under the first loan agreement. (Id., ¶17.) On January 7, 2022, Feigen and Ahlholm each executed a written continuing guaranty to personally guarantee the first loan. (Id., ¶18.) In April 2022, SA Hospital borrowed an additional $1.5 million from CLS.  (Id., ¶19.) SA Hospital agreed to increase the collateral option payment from $1.2 million to $1.5 million. (Id., ¶20.) SA Hospital failed to make payments on the second loan. (Id.) Feigen and Ahlholm executed a second written guaranty in April 2022. (Id., ¶21.) Cross-Defendants failed to make payments on both loans, which matured on July 6, 2022 and May 19, 2022. (Id., ¶22.)PROCEDURAL HISTORYOn November 29, 2022, Plaintiffs Windsor Terrace Healthcare, LLC and Windsor Healthcare Sepulveda, LLC filed their Complaint against Defendants Feigen, SA Hospital, and CLS.On January 9, 2023, CLS filed its Cross-Complaint against Feigen, Ahlholm, and SA Hospital.On December 18, 2023, CLS filed this motion for summary adjudication.On February 26, 2024, Cross-Defendants filed an opposition.On March 6, 2024, CLS filed a reply.On March 15, 2024, Cross-Defendants filed a notice of errata.At the initial hearing on this motion on March 15, 2024, Cross-Defendants noted that new evidence had been filed with CLS’s reply. The Court provided Cross-Defendants with an opportunity to respond to that evidence.On March 22, 2024, Cross-Defendants filed a supplemental declaration by Jeffrey Ahlholm in opposition to the motion for summary adjudication. On March 22, 2024, Cross-Defendants filed objections to the declaration of Srinivas Yalamanchili filed with CLS’s reply.On April 2, 2024, CLS filed objections to Ahlholm’s supplemental declaration.DISCUSSIONCLS moves for summary adjudication as to the four causes of action for breach of contract and breach of guaranty on the grounds that there are no triable issues of material fact and no affirmative defenses as to these causes of action. I. Evidentiary ObjectionsCross-Defendants object to the declaration of Ross Hyslop. The following objections are OVERRULED: 1-9.Cross-Defendants object to the declaration of Srinivas Yalamanchili.The following objections are OVERRULED: 1-10.Cross Defendants objections to the following paragraphs of the declaration of Srinivas Yalamanchili filed with the reply are OVERRULED: 3, 11, 18.The objections to the following paragraphs are SUSTAINED: 5-9, 13-17, 19-22. (Only as to the improper legal conclusions. The objections as to the facts stated in this paragraph, including the fact that Cross-Defendants failed to make payments under the settlement agreement, are overruled.) CLS’s objections to the supplemental declaration of Jeffrey Ahlholm. The following objections are OVERRULED: 1-23.II. Legal StandardA party may move for summary judgment “if it is contended that the action has no merit or that there is no defense to the action or proceeding.”  (Code Civ. Proc., section 437c, subd. (a).) “[I]f all the evidence submitted, and all inferences reasonably deducible from the evidence and uncontradicted by other inferences or evidence, show that there is no triable issue as to any material fact and that the moving party is entitled to judgment as a matter of law,” the moving party will be entitled to summary judgment.  (Adler v. Manor Healthcare Corp. (1992) 7 Cal.App.4th 1110, 1119.) A motion for summary adjudication may be made by itself or as an alternative to a motion for summary judgment and shall proceed in all procedural respects as a motion for summary judgment.  (Code Civ. Proc. § 437c, subd. (f)(2).)   The moving party bears an initial burden of production to make a prima facie showing of the nonexistence of any triable issue of material fact, and if he does so, the burden shifts to the opposing party to make a prima facie showing of the existence of a triable issue of material fact.  (Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 850; Code Civ. Proc. § 437c, subd. (p)(2).) On a plaintiff’s motion, the plaintiff must present evidence that would require a reasonable trier of fact to find any underlying material fact more likely than not. (Id. at p.845.) The plaintiff meets his burden of showing that there is no defense to a cause of action if he has proved each element on that cause of action. (Id. at p.849.) The burden then shifts to the defendant to show that a triable issue of one or more material facts exists as to that cause of action or defense. (Id.)“When deciding whether to grant summary judgment, the court must consider all of the evidence set forth in the papers (except evidence to which the court has sustained an objection), as well as all reasonable inferences that may be drawn from that evidence, in the light most favorable to the party opposing summary judgment.” (Avivi v. Centro Medico Urgente Medical Center (2008) 159 Cal.App.4th 463, 467; see also Code Civ. Proc., section 437c(c).) III. AnalysisCLS moves for summary adjudication on the grounds that there are no triable issues of material fact and no affirmative defenses as to its causes of action for breach of contract and the causes of action for breach of guaranty.a. First and Second Causes of Action – Breach of ContractThe first cause of action is for breach of contract with respect to the first loan agreement and names Cross-Defendant SA Hospital only.The second cause of action is for breach of contract with respect to the second loan agreement and names Cross-Defendant SA Hospital only.“[T]he elements of a cause of action for breach of contract are (1) the existence of the contract, (2) plaintiff’s performance or excuse for nonperformance, (3) defendant’s breach, and (4) the resulting damages to the plaintiff.”  (Thrifty Payless, Inc. v. The Americana at Brand, LLC (2013) 218 Cal.App.4th 1230, 1244.) CLS provides evidence that two loan agreements existed between CLS and Cross-Defendant SA Hospital. In 2022, SA Hospital borrowed $7.5 million from CLS under two loan agreements personally guaranteed by Feigen and Ahlholm and secured by the building at South Jefferson Avenue, St. Louis, Missouri, 63118. (S. Yalamanchili Decl., Exhs. 1-8.) The debt was also secured by a second property owned by Feigen at 7447 Sepulveda Blvd, Van Nuys, CA 91405. (Id., Exh. 1, Article IV.) CLS was not to record the second deed of trust against Feigen’s property unless SA Hospital was in default for non-payment on the maturity date of the loan. (Id., Exh. 3, section 2(c).) SA Hospital was to make six monthly payments of $45,000 on the 6th day of each month commencing on February 6, 2022 for the first loan. (Id., Exh. 1, Article 1.3.) The remaining principal and a 1% origination fee was due on the Maturity Date, July 6, 2022. (Id., Article 1.1.) For the second loan, the full principal amount and a 1% origination fee was due in full on the Maturity Date of May 19, 2022. (Id., Exh. 5, Article 1.1.) There is no dispute that the two loan agreement were executed. CLS performed under the agreement by delivering the money. (S. Yalamanchili Decl., ¶4.) SA Hospital failed to make the payments under the agreements. (Id., ¶8.) Because CLS provides evidence supporting each element of a cause of action for breach of contract, CLS meets its burden of showing no triable issue of material fact remains as to these causes of action. The burden shifts to Cross-Defendant SA Hospital.Cross-Defendants contend that (1) the loans were modified to extend the maturity date to March 1, 2024 and (2) CLS breached the agreements when it recorded a second deed of trust against property owned by Feigen. 1. ModificationCiv. Code, section 1698 provides that (a) a contract in writing may be modified by a contract in writing, (b) a contract in writing may be modified by an oral agreement to the extent that the oral agreement is executed by the parties, (c) unless the contract otherwise expressly provides, a contract in writing may be modified by an oral agreement supported by new consideration. The statute of frauds is required to be satisfied if the contract as modified is within its provisions. The section does not preclude estoppel, oral novation, and substitution of a new agreement, rescission of a written contract by an oral agreement, waiver of a provision of a written contract, or oral independent collateral contracts. Statute of FraudsContracts which fall under the statute of frauds are invalid unless they, or some note or memorandum thereof, are in writing and subscribed to by the party to be charged or by the party’s agent. (Civ. Code, section 1624 (a).) “An agreement by a purchaser of real property to pay an indebtedness secured by a mortgage or deed of trust upon the property purchased, unless assumption of the indebtedness by the purchaser is specifically provided for in the conveyance of the property.” (Civ. Code, section 1624(a)(6).) “A contract, promise, undertaking, or commitment to loan money or to grant or extend credit, in an amount greater than $100,000, not primarily for personal, family, or household purposes, made by a person engaged in the business of lending or arranging for the lending of money or extending credit falls under the statute of frauds.” (Civ. Code, section 1624(a)(7).) Here, the first loan agreement falls within the statute of frauds because Cross-Defendants used the loan funds to purchase a building at South Jefferson Avenue, St. Louis, Missouri, 63118 and the debt was secured by the same property. (Cross-Compl., Exh. 1, Articles I and IV.) The second loan fell under the statute of frauds because it was a loan for corporate purposes lent to SA Hospital by CLS, an entity engaged in the business of lending money. (Id., Exh. 5, Article 1.2.) Because these agreements fell within the statute of frauds, any modification was required to be in writing and subscribed by the parties. Emails and Text MessagesCross-Defendants argue that the loans were modified through text messages and emails. Cross-Defendants provide various text messages and emails between Ahlholm and the Yalamanchilis showing that the Yalamanchilis followed up on late rent payments in 2022, that the parties discussed buying another property together, and that the parties attempted to settle in 2023. (Cross-Defendants’ Exh. L, M, N, R-T.) None of these documents contain a written agreement to modify the loan agreements. Additionally, none of these documents are subscribed to by the parties or their agents as required by Civ. Code, section 1624(a). Cross-Defendants provide no authority that unsubscribed emails and text messages are sufficient to modify the agreements. Even if they did, the documents contain no discussion of changing the loans’ maturity dates or waiving any provision of the contracts. Therefore, the loan agreements were not modified through text messages or emails.Cross-Defendants appear to argue that CLS waived enforcement of the maturity dates through their texts and emails. “Absent an express waiver of the contractual provision, the application of the waiver and judicial estoppel doctrines require a showing of prejudice. Thus, waiver ‘is a voluntary act and implies an abandonment of a right or privilege—an election to dispense with something of value or to forego some advantage which one might, at his option, have demanded or insisted upon. In no case will a waiver be presumed or implied contrary to the intention of the party whose rights would be injuriously affected thereby, unless by his conduct the opposite party has been misled, to his prejudice, into the honest belief that such waiver was intended or consented to.’” (Applera Corp. v. MP Biomedicals, LLC (2009) 173 Cal.App.4th 769, 791, quoting McDanels v. General Ins. Co.(1934) 1 Cal.App.2d 454, 460.)Here, the Yalamanchilis at most asked about the late rent payments in 2022 and briefly considered purchasing another property with Cross-Defendants. The emails and text messages do not show an express waiver of CLS’s default remedies or the maturity dates of the loan agreements. Cross-Defendants fail to provide any evidence of how they were misled to their prejudice to believe these rights had been waived. Therefore, the texts and emails do not constitute waiver of any provision of the loan agreements. 2021 TransactionsCross-Defendants provide evidence of a series of 2021 transactions where CLS similarly lent money to SA Hospital to buy a different property referenced as the Broadway Campus. (Cross-Defendant’s Exhs. B, E, F.) In 2021, SA Hospital sought assistance from Ray and Srinivas Yalamanchili to purchase a building in Missouri, the Broadway Campus. (Ahlholm Decl., ¶¶12-14.) After SA Hospital purchased the Broadway Campus, the Yalamanchilis formed PI Broadway, LLC to hold the Broadway Campus. (Id., ¶16.) SA Hospital and PI Broadway then executed a lease with SA Hospital with a buyback provision allowing SA Hospital to buy the Broadway Campus for $16,800,000. (Id., ¶22.) After SA Hospital secured financing, it purchased the Broadway Campus under the buyback provision. (Id., ¶¶37-38.) Cross-Defendants do not explain what defense these facts support. Cross-Defendants appear to argue that CLS should be estopped from exercising its default remedies now because PI Broadway often allowed SA Hospital to pay rent late in 2021. (Ahlholm Decl., ¶¶26-27.) “The elements of a promissory estoppel claim are ‘(1) a promise clear and unambiguous in its terms; (2) reliance by the party to whom the promise is made; (3) [the] reliance must be both reasonable and foreseeable; and (4) the party asserting the estoppel must be injured by his reliance.’” (Advanced Choices, Inc. v. State Dept. of Health Servs. (2010) 182 Cal.App.4th 1661, 1671-1672.) Here, Cross-Defendants fail to provide any evidence that the Yalamanchilis or CLS made any promise to refrain from exercising their default remedies or to accept late payments with respect to the 2022 loans. Even if the Yalamanchilis chose not to exercise PI Broadway’s default remedies in 2021, there is no evidence that they agreed to waive their default remedies in 2022. Therefore, the promissory estoppel defense does not apply here.2023 Settlement AgreementsCross-Defendants also argue that the loans were modified under various settlement agreements. First, Cross-Defendants argue that the parties entered into a settlement agreement with a payoff/maturity date of August 2023. However, Cross-Defendants reference Exhibit O to their Compendium, which contains a settlement agreement between Plaintiff Windsor Terrace and Defendants. (Cross-Defendant’s Exh. O.) The agreement, as CLS points out, does not contain any provision about the loan agreements between CLS and Cross-Defendants. Rather, the settlement states it does not affect CLS’s Cross-Complaint. (Id. at section 1.2.) CLS concedes it signed a settlement agreement and Cross-Defendants provided the agreement in a notice of errata filed on March 15, 2024. Section 2.1.B of the agreement provides the following:“Upon receipt of the $6,000,000 and recording of the $2,700,000 second lien mortgage on the Jefferson campus, CLS shall dismiss without prejudice its Cross-Complaint against Cross-Defendants. However, if the $6,000,000 first lien note is not purchased by August 1, 2023 and/or CLS does not receive $6,000,000 by August 1, 2023, the Parties agree that this Agreement shall be completely void and of no further force and effect, and that the Cross-Complaint of CLS against Feigen, SA Hospital, and Ahlholm will not be dismissed and shall continue to be prosecuted.” (Cross-Defendants’ errata, pdf p.9.) The settlement agreement expressly provided that the agreement was void if Cross-Defendants failed to make payment and/or failed to record the second lien on the Jefferson campus. The agreement became void when Cross-Defendants failed to make payments under the agreement. (S. Yalamanchili Reply Decl., ¶6a.) Cross-Defendants fail to provide evidence that the 2022 loan agreements were modified by settlement.PaymentCross-Defendants also argue that the loans were modified when CLS agreed to the sale of a number of properties called “Keokuk Properties” in December 2023. However, Cross-Defendants agreed to the sale as partial payment of the outstanding loan balance. (S. Yalamanchili Decl., ¶21.) The $700,000 obtained from the sale will be credited towards any judgment against Cross-Defendants. (Id.) Jeffrey Ahlholm filed a supplemental declaration testifying that the $700,000 payment from the sale of the Keokuk Properties served as consideration for an extension on the maturity dates for the outstanding loans. (Ahlholm Supp. Decl., ¶11.) However, because the original loan agreements fell within the statute of frauds, the loans may only be modified in writing. Therefore, any oral agreements are not effective to modify the loan agreements. Cross-Defendants next appear to argue that the payment served as consideration to modify the settlement agreement. Ahlholm testifies that the $700,000 payment was considered by all parties to be a partial balance payment on the $6 million settlement amount. (Ahlholm Supp. Decl., ¶13.) Ahlholm references Exhibit S to Cross-Defendants’ opposition. (Cross-Defendants’ Exhibit List, pdf p.323.) The exhibit contains an email and an attached, unexecuted term sheet stating Cross-Defendants would cause to be paid $5.3 million to CLS by February 20, 2024. (Id.) Additionally, the $700,000 payment was supplemental consideration to CLS and served as a full payoff of the CLS $6 million mortgage. (Id.) CLS would transfer its first lien and convey its first trust deed to a new lender. (Id.) As for the $1.5 million loan, CLS would perfect a subordinated second lien on the Jefferson Campus and agree to monthly payments with interest and a payoff date in December 2025 or on the maturity date of the senior loan. (Id.) If the $5.3 million payment was not received by March 1, 2024, the agreement would be null and void. (Id.) Exhibit T contains the same term sheet with changes accepted by S. Yalamanchili. (Id. at pdf p.326.) Even if CLS agreed orally to this modification, the loans may only be modified in writing because the agreements fall within the statute of frauds. There is no evidence that CLS agreed to this modification in writing because the term sheet is unsigned. Even if it was signed, Ahlholm concedes Cross-Defendants have not secured a new lender to pay the outstanding loan balance. (Ahlholm Decl., ¶¶19-23.) Thus, even if the term sheet was binding, Cross-Defendants failed to satisfy the $5.3 million balance by the March 1, 2024 deadline stated in the term sheet. The term sheet became void when Cross-Defendants failed to secure a new lender to pay off the $5.3 million debt. In any case, because the term sheet was not executed, the term sheet did not modify the loans’ maturity dates or waive CLS’s default rights.Ahlholm also appears to dispute whether the $700,000 payment reduced the amount Cross-Defendants owe on the $6 million loan to $5.3 million. (Ahlholm Supplemental Decl., ¶¶14-16.) Alholm may be attempting to create a triable issue of material fact with respect to the balance owed on the loan. However, given that CLS agrees that the balance owed is $5.3 million, the lower number, this is not a real dispute.For the reasons discussed above, Cross-Defendants have not met their burden of showing that there is a triable issue of material fact as to whether the 2022 loan agreements between CLS and Cross-Defendants were modified.2. CLS’s BreachCross-Defendants argue that CLS’s causes of action for breach of the two loan agreements fail because CLS breached the agreement by recording the second deed of trust for property belonging to Feigen. The parties loan agreement states “In addition to the Guarantor’s obligations set forth in sections 2(a) and 2(b) above, Guarantor as manager of Windsor Healthcare Sepulveda, LLC (“Windsor”) shall cause Windsor to execute a Second Deed of Trust in favor of Lendor on that certain property located at 7447 Sepulveda Blvd, Van Nuys, California, 91405. Lender and Guarantor shall deposit the Second Deed of Trust in escrow at Wilshire Escrow. LENDER SHALL NOT RECORD SUCH SECOND DEED OF TRUST UNLESS BORROWR IS IN DEFAULT FOR NONPAYMENT ON MATURITY DATE OF THE LOAN” (sic)The loans’ maturity dates were July 6, 2022 and May 19, 2022. Cross-Defendants concede that the second Deed of Trust was recorded on August 24, 2022, after the maturity dates of both loans. Cross-Defendants do not dispute that no payment had been made under either loan agreement at the time both loans matured. Thus, CLS did not breach the agreements when it recorded the second Deed of Trust because Cross-Defendants were in default and the maturity dates had passed. Because there is no evidence the loans were modified and no evidence that CLS breached the agreements, Cross-Defendants fail to meet their burden of showing a triable issue of material fact or a defense remains as to the causes of action for breach of contract for breaches of the 2022 loan agreements.b. Third and Fourth Causes of Action – Breach of GuarantyThe third cause of action is for breach of the guaranties with respect to the first loan agreement and names Cross-Defendants Ahlholm and Feigen only.The fourth cause of action is for breach of the guaranties with respect to the second loan agreement and names Cross-Defendants Ahlholm and Feigen only. The elements of a breach of guaranty cause of action are: (1) a valid guaranty, (2) the borrower has defaulted, and (3) the guarantor failed to perform under the guaranty.  (Gray1 CPB, LLC v. Kolokotronis (2011) 202 Cal.App.4th 480, 486.) A person cannot guarantee his or her own debt. (Everts v. Matteson (1942) 21 Cal.2d 437, 444–446.)CLS provides evidence that Feigen and Ahlholm executed Guarantees agreeing to personally guarantee the 2022 loans. (S. Yalamanchili Decl., Exhs. 3,4, 7, 8.) Feigen and Ahlholm were required to promptly pay all of SA Hospitals liabilities to CLS when payment was due. (Id., section 2.) SA Hospital breached both loan agreements by failing to make payments. (S. Yalamanchili Decl., ¶11.) Feigen and Ahlholm failed to pay the amount owed under the loan agreements despite CLS’s demands. (Id., ¶14.) CLS’s evidence supports each element of a cause of action for breach of guaranty. An agreement existed between CLS, Feigen, and Alholm where Feigen and Alholm agreed to personally guarantee two loans paid by CLS to SA Hospital. CLS delivered the money to SA Hospital. Feigen and Alholm breached the agreement after failing to pay the loans after SA Hospital defaulted. CLS thus meets its burden of showing that no triable issue of material fact and no defense remains as to these causes of action. The burden shifts to Cross-Defendants.Cross-Defendants argue that triable issues of material fact remain over whether the loans were modified and whether CLS breached the agreements. These arguments fail for the same reasons as the first two causes of action. There is no evidence that the loans were modified or that CLS breached the agreements.Cross-Defendants argue that the guaranties are not enforceable because they were not supported by new consideration. Cross-Defendants support this argument by citing Oakland Bank of Commerce v. Washington (1970) 6 Cal.App.3d 793, 796 where a court ruled a contract of guaranty made after the primary agreement has been executed and the consideration supporting it has been provided requires new consideration. However, the first page of each loan agreement, promissory note, and guaranty show that all three documents in each agreement were signed on January 7, 2022 and April 19, 2022 respectively. (S. Yalamanchili Decl., Exhs. 1-8.) Although Cross-Defendants argue there is no evidence of when the documents were signed, each document is dated January 7, 2022 or April 19, 2022 and Cross-Defendants do not dispute the validity of these dates. CLS argues Feigen signed the second Deed of Trust on January 6, 2022. However, this was before the date the parties executed the first loan agreement and has no bearing on whether the personal guarantees required additional consideration. Finally, Cross-Defendants argue the personal guaranties were sham guarantees because Feigen and Ahlholm are the same people as the primary obligor. Cross-Defendants cite Cadle Co. II v. Harvey (2000) 83 Cal.App.4th 927, 932 in support of this argument.Courts have ruled that where separate legal entities, such as limited liability companies and limited partnerships, enter into loan agreements, the entities’ owners are true guarantors because the entities are legally separate from the individual owners. (California Bank & Trust v. Lawlor (2013) 222 Cal.App.4th 625, 638.)Here, SA Hospital is a limited liability company. There is sufficient legal separation between SA Hospital and the guarantors, Feigen and Ahlholm, such that they are true guarantors and not merely the principal obligors under different names. Therefore, Cross-Defendants fail to meet their burden of proving a triable issue of material fact remains as to the causes of action for breach of guaranty.Cross-Defendants fail to meet their burden of proving that a triable issue of material fact or defense remains as to the first four causes of action. Summary adjudication is granted.IV. Requests for a ContinuanceCross-Defendants request a continuance of this motion on the grounds that the Yalamanchilis refused to attend their depositions. A party opposing a motion for summary judgment may file a declaration to continue the motion with its opposition or by ex parte motion before the opposition to the motion is due. (Code Civ. Proc., section 437c, subd. (h); Ambrose v. Michelin North America, Inc. (2005) 134 CA4th 1350, 1353.) The party must request the continuance through affidavits or declarations stating facts to justify opposition may exist. (Code Civ. Proc., section 437c, subd. (h).) “To be entitled to a continuance, the party opposing the motion for summary judgment must show that its proposed discovery would have led to facts essential to justify opposition.” (Scott v. CIBA Vision Corp. (1995) 38 CA4th 307, 325-326.)Cross-Defendants argue that their testimony is essential to Cross-Defendants’ defenses because they were witnesses to the loan agreements. However, Cross-Defendants fail to explain how deposing the Yalamanchilis would lead to the discovery of facts essential to their defenses. Cross-Defendants’ counsel merely provides copies of notices of nonappearance taken during their scheduled depositions. (Pallares Decl., Exhs. AD, AE.) CLS’s counsel testifies that Cross-Defendants noticed the depositions on February 16, 2024 with only five days’ notice. (Hyslop Decl., ¶¶4-5.) CLS served objections on the grounds that notice was deficient under Code Civ. Proc., section 2025.270(a), the Yalamanchilis were not available on the noticed date, and because Feigen and Ahlholm refused to attend their own depositions. (Id., ¶6.) Because it appears Cross-Defendants failed to properly notice these depositions and failed to explain how deposing the Yalamanchilis would lead to the discovery of facts essential to their defenses, the request is denied.DATED:  April 16, 2024 ______________________________Hon. Jill FeeneyJudge of the Superior Court