 Case Number:  BC290553    Hearing Date:   December 12, 2024    Dept:  52 Receiver
Aaron J. Kudla’s Motion for Order Approving Receiver’s and Receiver’s Outside
Counsel’s Interim Fees as Stated in the Second Report
Receiver
Aaron J. Kudla moves for an order approving interim fees for himself, professionals
and other staff he hired, and his outside counsel.  California Rules of Court, rule 3.1183(a)
provides, “Interim fees are subject to final review and approval by the court.  The court retains jurisdiction to award a
greater or lesser amount as the full, fair, and final value of the services
received.”  After a receiver serves an
interim report and accounting, an aggrieved party may make “specific”
objections to it.  (Rule 3.1183(b).)
Evidentiary
Objections
            Kudla makes several objections to
defendant Haresh Jogani’s evidence in support of his opposition.  All objections are overruled.  
Discussion
The receiver moves for an order approving
$448,700.76 in interim fees to the receiver and his staff and $169,668.50 in
interim fees to his outside counsel, as stated in the receiver’s second report
filed on October 21, 2024.  The court
finds these fees constitute the full, fair, and final value of the services
rendered.  
The receiver’s second report includes many billing
entries for Senior Counsel “AGK.”  In his
declaration in support for this motion, Mr. Kudla reveals that he hired his
wife, attorney Anna Kudla, as part of his staff.  Mr. Kudla’s decision to retain his wife raises
concerns for the court.  A receiver
should not only have integrity, he or she should appear to have integrity in
the eyes of the court and the interested parties.  A receiver should take all measures to avoid
the appearance of impropriety even if he or she is acting with the utmost
integrity.  By hiring his wife and
failing to disclose this decision to the court at an earlier time, Mr. Kudla
has undermined the court’s confidence in him. 
But the court has no basis, at this time, to conclude that the work
billed by Anna Kudla was unnecessary or unreasonable.
The receiver submitted detailed billing entries for the
fees for himself and his staff.  (2nd
Report, Ex. B.)  Kudla’s declaration in
support of this motion also further explained the billing entries.  (Kudla Decl., ¶¶ 26-38.)  When viewed as a whole, the timesheets and
Kudla’s declaration presented sufficient information to evaluate the
reasonableness of the fees.  Kudla justifies
the expenses incurred.  Operating the
receivership entities is a difficult task. 
Doing so reasonably required the $448,700.76 in interim fees and
expenses Kudla claims. 
Outside counsel Buchalter also justifies its
fees.  They redacted several entries, but
the redactions were minimal and appropriate. 
(2nd Report, Ex. D.)  Their use of
block billing was limited.  Both the
redactions and occasional block billed entries did not prohibit the court from
adequately reviewing the reasonableness of Buchalter’s fees. 
Disposition
            Receiver
Aaron J. Kudla’s motion for order approving interim fees is granted.  
Under California Rules of Court, rule 3.1183(a), the
court hereby awards the receiver and his staff $448,700.76 in interim fees and
expenses as stated in Exhibits B and C to the receiver’s second report.  The court hereby awards the receiver’s
counsel, Buchalter, a Professional Corporation, $169,668.50 in interim fees and
expenses as stated in Exhibit D to the receiver’s second report.Defendants/Cross-Complainants
Rajesh Jogani and Chetan Jogani’s Motion for Order Requiring Issuance of Shares
in Akshi InvestmentsDefendants/cross-complainants
Rajesh Jogani and Chetan Jogani move the court to issue four orders regarding
certificates of the shares of Akshi Investments Limited, a British Virgin
Islands: (1) cancelling all existing share certificates, (2) requiring issuance
of new share certificates to Haresh, Rajesh, Shailesh, and Chetan Jogani in
accordance with each party’s percentage of ownership in Akshi Investments, (3)
requiring delivery of Rajesh and Chetan Jogani’s share certificates to them,
and (4) requiring delivery of Haresh Jogani’s share certificates to the
receiver.  Defendants
Haresh Jogani and Akshi Investments Limited oppose this motion on three
grounds.  The court will deny the motion
based on one of the three grounds.  The
court therefore need not and does not address the other bases for the
opposition.The
order for which Rajesh and Chetan Jogani move constitutes a mandatory
injunction that is stayed pending appeal. 
“An injunction that requires no action and merely preserves the status
quo (a so-called prohibitory injunction) ordinarily takes effect immediately,
while an injunction requiring the defendant to take affirmative action (a
so-called mandatory injunction) is automatically stayed during the pendency of
the appeal.”  (Daly v. San Bernardino
County Bd. of Supervisors (2021) 11 Cal.5th 1030, 1035.)  An order cancelling share certificates and
requiring issuing and delivering new share certificates does not preserve the
status quo.  Such an order changes the
status quo and would require Akshi Investments Limited to take affirmative
action.  Rajesh
and Chetan Jogani argue these orders fall under the exception in Code of Civil
Procedure section 917.2, which provides that an appeal does not automatically
stay a judgment that “directs the assignment or delivery of personal property.”  Generally, “shares of stock and … percentage rights are personal property” subject to
section 917.2.  (Gross v. Gross
(1959) 175 Cal.App.2d 89, 91 [applying former § 943, predecessor to § 917.2].)  This motion, however, seeks an order for more than
directing the assignment or delivery of share certificates.  The record indicates that in 1996, Akshi
Investments had 50,000 shares authorized, 200 of which were “bearer”
shares.  (Ross Decl., Ex. C, p. 81.)  The memorandum in support of this motion
asserts, “Because it is unclear how many shares of Akshi Investments have been
previously issued and who is holding them,” the court should enforce the
judgment by cancelling all current or previous certificates and issuing a total
of 10,000 new shares.  (Motion, p. 5.)  Code of Civil Procedure section 917.2 may apply to an
order directing the assignment or delivery of certificates for the 50,000
shares that currently exist.  The order sought
by this motion would instead alter the status quo by effectively destroying
personal property (the existing certificates, some of which may be possessed by
people who are not parties to the action), then create personal property (the
new certificates for 10,000 shares), before finally ordering assignment or
delivery of that new personal property.  The circumstances are analogous to Baar v. Smith
(1927) 201 Cal. 87 (Baar).  There,
the California Supreme Court held enforcement of a judgment was automatically
stayed pending appeal.  The judgment appealed
from included an order that the defendants must endorse and deliver stock
certificates to the plaintiff.  (Id.
at p. 94.)  The Court held, “The findings
specifically show that” one of the defendants “is not in the present possession
of said stock and was not at the time said judgment was rendered; therefore it
would be impossible for her to comply with any order requiring her to deliver
such stock to plaintiff; hence,” the predecessor to Code of Civil Procedure
section 917.2 “would be inapplicable.”  (Id.
at p. 103.)  The judgment in Baar included two alternatives
if the defendant could not comply with the order delivering stock: “[T]he
judgment is not one giving the relief usually had in a suit for possession of
personal property, but goes much further.  It not only [1] orders any defendant having
possession of the stock to deliver it to plaintiff, but it [2] directs in case
of failure or inability to comply with this order that the corporation cancel
the stock certificates upon its books in the name of whomsoever they may be and
issue new certificates and deliver them to the plaintiff, and then, [3] after
failure to get both these sets of relief, is the money judgment against any of
the defendants to be operative, but not otherwise.”  (Baar, supra, 201 Cal. at p.
104.)  The portion of the judgment Rajesh
and Chetan Jogani move to enforce is equivalent to option 2 of the judgment in Baar.  They seek an order cancelling share
certificates and issuing new ones.The reply brief attempts to distinguish Baar
because here, the judgment regarding the certificates of shares is not one of
several alternatives.  But Baar
held the former statute providing that a money judgment is not automatically
stayed pending appeal did not apply because “the money judgment is clearly
ancillary and incidental only to the mandatory directions to which it is
subjoined.”  (201 Cal. at p. 104.)  The California Supreme Court held, “The
appeal from these mandatory provisions of the decree will therefore necessarily
stay execution upon the incidental and subordinate provisions thereof.”  (Id. at p. 105.)  The predecessor to section 917.2 did not
apply because (a) as to option 1 of the judgment, the defendant did not have
the personal property to be delivered, and (b) option 2 of the judgment went
beyond the relief of delivering or assigning personal property.  The decision did not rely on option 3 of the
judgment, which was a money judgment to be entered as a last resort.  Code of Civil Procedure section 917.2 does not apply
for the same reasons former section 943 did not apply in Baar.  Like option 2 of the judgment there, such an
order would go “much further” (Baar, supra, 201 Cal. at p. 104) than
merely ordering delivery of property and would thus be a “mandatory
provision[]” that is automatically stayed on appeal (id. at p.
105).   Defendants/cross-complainants
Rajesh Jogani and Chetan Jogani’s motion for order requiring issuance of shares
in Akshi Investments is denied.
