  Case Number:  21STCV02330    Hearing Date:   December 12, 2024    Dept:  52 Defendants Lockheed Martin
Corporation and Mark Marino’s Motion to Reopen Discovery and Motion to Compel
Compliance with Court Order
Motion to Reopen Discovery
Defendants Lockheed Martin
Corporation and Mark Marino move to reopen discovery to depose two witnesses:
Luke Giangrande and Adrian Martinez. 
Defendants show good cause to reopen
discovery for these two depositions.  Code of Civil
Procedure section 2024.050, subdivision (b) provides: 
In exercising its discretion to grant or
deny [a motion to reopen discovery], the court shall take into consideration
any matter relevant to the leave requested, including, but not limited to, the following:
(1) The necessity and the reasons for
the discovery.
(2) The diligence or lack of diligence
of the party seeking the discovery or the hearing of a discovery motion, and
the reasons that the discovery was not completed or that the discovery motion
was not heard earlier.
(3) Any likelihood that permitting the
discovery or hearing the discovery motion will prevent the case from going to
trial on the date set, or otherwise interfere with the trial calendar, or
result in prejudice to any other party.
(4) The length of time that has elapsed
between any date previously set, and the date presently set, for the trial of
the action.
Defendants show substantial necessity
and a good reason to depose Giangrande and Martinez.  Both submitted declarations in support of
plaintiff’s opposition to defendants’ motions for summary judgment.  Plaintiff plans to use both witnesses at
trial.  (Jatana Decl., ¶ 10, Ex. D.)  Deposing them is necessary.    
Defendants show adequate
diligence.  Defendants moved for summary
judgment in May 2023.  The motions were
ultimately heard in September 2024. 
Plaintiff did not identify Giangrande or Martinez as witnesses before he
submitted their declarations in support of his opposition to the motions for
summary judgment.  (Jatana Decl., ¶¶
5-6.)  By then, the discovery cutoff was
about one month away.  Defendants made a
good faith effort to depose both witnesses before the cutoff.  
There is a chance that permitting these two depositions will
prevent the case from going to trial as scheduled on January 15, 2025.  If plaintiff does not cooperate in completing
these depositions, the court may prohibit Giangrande and Martinez from
testifying at trial rather than continuing the trial.
Finally, the current trial date is long after the initial
trial date.  Several discovery disputes have
contributed to the delay.  But, as
discussed above, defendants did not know about these two witnesses until
shortly before the discovery cutoff.  
After considering all relevant
factors, the court finds good cause to reopen discovery to permit defendants to
depose Giangrande and Martinez.
Motion to Compel Compliance with Court Order
            Defendants Lockheed Martin Corporation and Mark Marino
move to compel plaintiff Jimmy Guzman to comply with the court’s order
compelling the depositions of plaintiff and of Elvira Guzman.  On October 25, 2024, the court ordered
plaintiff and Elvira Guzman to appear and testify at deposition no later than
December 2.  After defendants filed this
motion, the parties agreed to complete both depositions on December 17,
2024.  (Jatana Reply Decl., ¶ 11, Ex. C.)  Considering the repeated delays in scheduling
these depositions, the court finds good cause to order plaintiff and Elvira
Guzman to testify at deposition on that date. 
Defendants also move for $5,950 in
sanctions against plaintiff.  The court exercises
its discretion not to impose sanctions.  Each
side has contributed to the various discovery disputes and the resulting
delays.  The court therefore finds
sanctions would not be just under the circumstances.
Disposition  
Defendants Lockheed Martin Corporation and Mark Marino’s
motion to reopen discovery is granted.  The court hereby reopens discovery only for the depositions of
witnesses Luke Giangrande and Adriano Martinez. 
Plaintiff shall produce Giangrande and Martinez for depositions no later
than January 6, 2025.   
Defendants Lockheed Martin Corporation and Mark Marino’s
motion to compel compliance with court order is granted in part. 
Plaintiff Jimmy Guzman and Elvira Guzman are ordered to appear and testify at deposition on
December 17, 2024. 