 Case Number:  24SMCV01938    Hearing Date:   May 2, 2024    Dept:  I The court is inclined to GRANT the TRO and issue an OSC re:
Preliminary Injunction and set a hearing and briefing schedule.
 
For a TRO, the court considers the traditional preliminary
injunction factors—likelihood of success and balance of hardships.  It also considers whether the harm is
irreparable and also the need to maintain the status quo ante.  The latter two are more important in the TRO
context than the PI context because of the TRO’s short duration and the fact
that the opposing party does not have a full opportunity to be heard.
 
Here, the issue is about a lease.  Plaintiff is the tenant and defendant is the
landlord.  There is a lease that has
expired, but it was subject to extensions options in the tenant’s favor.  The tenant here timely exercised the first of
those options.  If exercised, the rent
during the extension is to be determined by an appraisal panel with each side
picking one appraiser and those appraisers picking a third.  The rent is the average of each
panel-member’s appraised amount.  The
rent for the first year of the extension is subject to a collar.
 
When plaintiff exercised its option, it suggested that the
parties either agree to a rental amount or that they begin the appraisal
process.  The landlord delayed
responding.  Eventually, though (last
November) the landlord wrote with an appraised amount (and an appraisal) that
plaintiff believes is unreasonably high. 
Be that as it may, the rent issue will be worked out either by the panel
or, apparently, by way of an arbitration, in which the landlord has agreed to
participate (in its opposition).  In the
interim, though, plaintiff contends that the landlord is acting inappropriately
as to that most precious of LA commodities: parking.
 
The lease provides that plaintiff will have five spots in
the lot.  However, the lot is configured
such that there are 5 tandem spots (two cars each) and two single spots.  From the start of the lease until last month,
the landlord had a valet on site so that the tandem spots could be used.  The cost was shared pursuant to the
lease.  In April, though, the landlord
said that the valet would be removed, which makes the 5 tandem spots unusable
in that the car in the inner spot could be blocked and, absent a valet, there
would be no way for that car to leave. 
Plaintiff responded by hiring its own valet, but the landlord said that
plaintiff’s valet was acting inappropriately and would leave or be subject to
trespass.  Defendant initially agreed to
restore the prior valet, but that entity was present for less than a day.  Now, according to plaintiff, defendant has
put pylons on many of the spots.
 
Plaintiff seeks a TRO to restore the status quo as it was
before the valet was removed.  Plaintiff
notes that parking is crucial for its business and that the landlord knows as
much.
 
Turning, then, to the test. 
The court believes that plaintiff has made out a strong showing of a
likelihood of success on the merits.  At
first blush, this certainly looks retaliatory. 
As to the balance of hardships, plaintiff notes that without parking its
business will lose customers.  The court
does not know plaintiff’s financials, but it could well be that absent
immediate relief the impact on the business will not be temporary.  Clients go elsewhere to get their hair done,
and once gone, they might never come back. 
From the defense, the hardship is only the shared cost of the valet, if
that.  Irreparable harm would depend on
whether the business is lost for a few weeks or longer.  For TRO purposes, the evidence is not all
that strong.  But it could well be that
the loss is not just for a couple of weeks. 
And finally, the status quo ante is clear: the valet was there.  The landlord argues that plaintiff has other
options.  He notes there is metered
parking on the street and a lot nearby. 
The landlord states that plaintiff can hire a valet so long as the valet
is not on the property.  The court
understands that, but the lease itself provides for five spots.  The landlord cannot deprive plaintiff of five
spots.  The tandem spots will not
suffice, at least they cannot count as two. 
Without a person who can move cars on the premises (which the landlord
will not allow), the spot cannot feasibly be used for two cars.
 
Having said all of that, plaintiff is not entitled to more
than 5 spots.  Even though (especially on
the weekend) defendant might have no need for parking (or more than 1 spot),
that is a question of niceness, not a question of contractual rights.  Thus, defendant will need to allow the five
spots, but it need not allow for more. 
It can be done in any of the following ways: (1) prohibiting the
landlord from interfering with the plaintiff’s hiring of a valet, with the
costs allocation to be determined later but plaintiff fronting the costs; (2)
having the landlord provide the valet; or (3) prohibiting the landlord from
stopping the plaintiff from converting three of the tandem spots to single
spots (by obstructing the inner spot) and allowing plaintiff to use the two
single spots and prohibiting the landlord from plaintiff’s exclusive use of
those five spots (perhaps by plaintiff putting up appropriate signage), or
having plaintiff convert one or two other tandem spots to single spots but not
use the like number of single spots.  The
court is open to other suggestions.
 
The TRO will last until the preliminary injunction hearing,
which will be set at today’s hearing. 
There will be no bond required for the TRO, although a bond may be
required for any PI.
 
The court strongly urges the parties to work this out.  