 Case Number:  24SMCV00401    Hearing Date:   May 2, 2024    Dept:  I This is a demurrer brought by the tenant in an unlawful
eviction case.  Defendant raises two
grounds.  The first is that plaintiff was
not specific enough in setting forth the basis for the allegation that the
City’s rent control ordinance does not apply. 
Defendant was successful in that argument at the last demurrer hearing,
but at that time plaintiff cited to the wrong statute entirely.  Although the statute to which plaintiff cited
did have the proper language in it, the statute itself was not the statute that
excluded properties from rent control. 
Plaintiff amended and has cited to Civil Code section 1946.2(e)(8).  Defendant agrees that although this is the
right statute, more precision is required. 
That statute has sub-sub-sub-divisions. 
According to the defense, the complaint is vulnerable to demurrer unless
it goes down to that level.  The court
disagrees.  The court does not believe
that the statute requires citation down to that level of detail.  The particular statute is properly set forth,
as well as the sub-division and sub-sub-division.  That will suffice to give the defense proper
notice of the basis for the claimed exemption. 

 
The second ground is the claim that the 3 day notice
improperly suggests that the three days are calendar days, not business
days.  The court agrees that the notice
could be more clearly written, but the court believes it will suffice
here.  The notice, which is attached to
the complaint, begins by saying that defendant must pay the amount owing
“within three days after service of this notice (excluding Saturdays, Sundays
and judicial holidays).”  That is the
proper instruction.  However, below that,
it says that “If you fail to either pay the amount demanded in this Notice or
to vacate and deliver the premises to the person designated above within three
days, the undersigned will commence legal proceedings against you.”  Here, unlike the original description, the
phrase is “three days” unadorned.  While
the court agrees that the better way to write it would be for both “three day”
references to include the parenthetical, the court believes that the first
usage of the time period is sufficient to put the defendant on notice that the
“three days” referred to the same period properly set forth above.  While not perfect, the notice is adequate.
 
The court is familiar with the notion that in unlawful
detainer actions, the quid pro quo for the speed with which the case
moves through the courts is that the procedural rules must be meticulously
followed by the landlord.  And indeed
that is why the prior demurrer was sustained even though there was no real
confusion.  But the court believes that
there are limits to all doctrines, this one included.  The flaws asserted by the defense are
insufficient to make the complaint improper. 
Accordingly, the demurrer is OVERRULED. 
Defendant will answer by May 7, 2024. 
The court notes that it is ruling only on a pleading motion; nothing
else.