 Case Number:  22STCV03916    Hearing Date:   March 5, 2024    Dept:  47 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Theresa M. Traber, Department 47
 
 
HEARING DATE:     March 5, 2024                        TRIAL
DATE: NOT SET
                                                           
CASE:                         Daniel Wang, et al., v. 360 Capital
Ventures Inc., et al.
 
CASE NO.:                 22STCV03916            
 
MOTION
FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT AND SUMMARY ADJUDICATION

 
MOVING PARTY:               Plaintiffs and Cross-Defendants Daniel Wang and Grace
Lee; Cross-Defendant Rosalind Wang
 
RESPONDING PARTY(S): Defendants and
Cross-Complainants 360 Capital Ventures Inc. and Sachin Patel, and Defendant
Miguel Soltero
 
CASE
HISTORY:
·        
01/31/22: Complaint filed.
·        
03/21/23: Cross-Complaint filed by 360 Capital
Ventures and Sachin Patel as to Plaintiffs and as to Cross-Defendant Rosalind
Wang
·        
04/13/23: First Amended Complaint filed.
·        
07/27/23: First Amended Cross-Complaint filed.
·        
11/06/23: Cross-Complaint filed by 360 Capital
Ventures, Sachin Patel, and Bayside Builders inc. as to Hudson Insurance Co. 
 
STATEMENT
OF MATERIAL FACTS AND/OR PROCEEDINGS:
            
            This is a breach of contract action for a construction contract.
Plaintiffs allege that Defendants overcharged Plaintiffs relative to the
portion of the work completed, and that the work was extremely late,
incomplete, and substandard, 
 
Plaintiffs/Cross-Defendants Daniel
Wang and Grace Lee move for summary adjudication on the first cause of action
in the First Amended Complaint as to Defendant 360 Capital Ventures Inc., and
for summary adjudication on the first cause of action in the First Amended
Cross-Complaint against these Cross-Defendants. 
 
Cross-Defendant Rosalind Wang
simultaneously moves for summary judgment on the First Amended Cross-Complaint
as against her. 
 
//          
TENTATIVE RULING:
 
Plaintiffs’ Motion for Summary
Adjudication is GRANTED.
 
            Cross-Defendant
Rosalind Wang’s Motion for Summary Judgment is DENIED AS MOOT. 
 
DISCUSSION:
 
Motion for Summary Adjudication by
Plaintiffs/Cross-Defendants Daniel Wang and Grace Lee
 
            Plaintiffs/Cross-Defendants
Daniel Wang and Grace Lee move for summary adjudication on the first cause of
action in the First Amended Complaint as to Defendant 360 Capital Ventures
Inc., and for summary adjudication on the first cause of action in the First
Amended Cross-Complaint against these parties.
 
Legal Standard
 
The function of a motion for
summary judgment or adjudication is to allow a determination as to whether an
opposing party can show evidentiary support for a pleading or claim and, if
not, to enable an order of summary dismissal without the need for trial. (Aguilar
v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 843.) Code of Civil
Procedure Section 437c(c) “requires the trial judge to grant summary judgment
if all the evidence submitted, and ‘all inferences reasonably deducible from
the evidence’ and uncontradicted by other inferences or evidence, show that
there is no triable issue as to any material fact and that the moving party is
entitled to judgment as a matter of law.” 
(Adler v. Manor Healthcare Corp. (1992) 7 Cal.App.4th 1110,
1119.)  “The function of the pleadings in
a motion for summary judgment is to delimit the scope of the issues; the
function of the affidavits or declarations is to disclose whether there is any
triable issue of fact within the issues delimited by the pleadings.” (Juge
v. County of Sacramento (1993) 12 Cal.App.4th 59, 67, citing FPI
Development, Inc. v. Nakashima (1991) 231 Cal. App. 3d 367, 381-82.)
 
As to each claim as framed by the
complaint, the plaintiff moving for summary judgment must satisfy the initial
burden of proof by presenting proving each element of a cause of action. (Code
Civ Proc. § 437c(p)(1).) Courts “liberally construe the evidence in support of
the party opposing summary judgment and resolve doubts concerning the evidence
in favor of that party.” (Dore v. Arnold Worldwide, Inc. (2006) 39
Cal.4th 384, 389.) Once the plaintiff has met that burden, the burden shifts to
the defendant to show that a triable issue of one or more material facts exists
as to that cause of action or a defense thereto. (Code Civ. Proc. §
437c(p)(1).) To establish a triable issue of material fact, the party opposing
the motion must produce substantial responsive evidence. (Sangster v.
Paetkau (1998) 68 Cal.App.4th 151, 166.)
 
As to each claim as framed by the
cross-complaint, the cross-defendant moving for summary judgment must satisfy
the initial burden of proof by presenting facts to negate an essential element,
or to establish a defense. (Code Civ Proc. § 437c(p)(2); Scalf v. D. B. Log
Homes, Inc. (2005) 128 Cal.App.4th 1510, 1520.) As stated above, courts
“liberally construe the evidence in support of the party opposing summary
judgment and resolve doubts concerning the evidence in favor of that party.” (Dore,
supra, 39 Cal.4th at 389.) The lack of opposition by a cross-complainant is
not grounds to grant a motion for summary judgment if a cross-defendant cannot
meet their initial burden of proof. (See Thatcher v. Lucy Stores, Inc.
(2000) 79 Cal.App.4th 1081, 1087.)
 
            Once the
cross-defendant has met that burden, the burden shifts to the cross-complainant
to show that a triable issue of one or more material facts exists as to that
cause of action or a defense thereto. To establish a triable issue of material
fact, the party opposing the motion must produce substantial responsive
evidence. (Sangster, supra, 68 Cal.App.4th at 166.)
 
Defendants’ Deficient Separate Statement
 
            Plaintiffs
object to Defendants’ Responses to Separate Statement as improper because large
portions of the Separate Statement either do not provide precise citations to
evidence or cite no evidence at all. In
a separate statement, “[c]itation to the evidence in support of the position
that a fact is controverted must include reference to the exhibit, title, page,
and line numbers.” (Cal. Rule of Court 3.1350(f)(3).) “The separate statement serves two important functions in
a summary judgment proceeding:  It notifies the parties which material
facts are at issue, and it provides a convenient and expeditious vehicle
permitting the trial court to home in on the truly disputed facts.”  (Collins
v. Hertz Corp. (2006) 144 Cal.App.4th 64, 74.) To the extent
that the disputed material facts identified in Defendants’ Response are not supported
by citations to evidence with sufficient specificity to permit ready
identification of the relevant materials, the Court will not consider those
portions of the Separate Statement. 
 
Defendants’ Evidentiary Objections
 
            Defendants
raise several objections to Plaintiffs’ evidence in support of their motion.
The Court rules on this evidence as follows:
 
            Objection
No. 1: OVERRULED. Does not lack foundation or authentication. Statement is
not hearsay because it is not offered for the truth of its contents. 
 
            Objection
No. 2: OVERRULED. Does not lack foundation or authentication. These
documents are not hearsay under the business records exception. (Evid. Code §
1271.) 
 
            Objection
No. 3: OVERRULED. Does not lack foundation or authentication. Statement is
not hearsay because it is not offered for the truth of its contents. 
 
Plaintiffs’ Evidentiary Objections
 
            Plaintiffs
raise numerous evidentiary objections to Defendants’ evidence in support of
their opposition. The Court rules on these objections as follows:
 
1.      Declaration
of Sachin Patel
 
Objection No. 1: OVERRULED.
Objection goes to weight, not admissibility.
 
Objection Nos. 2-3:
OVERRULED. Not an improper legal conclusion, does not lack foundation. 
 
Objection No. 4: SUSTAINED
as improper legal conclusion with respect “360 Capital is not a contractor.”
SUSTAINED as irrelevant as to lines 14-17.
 
Objection No. 5: OVERRULED.
Not improper opinion evidence.
 
Objection No. 6: OVERRULED.
Does not lack foundation nor personal knowledge. Not hearsay.
 
Objection No. 7: SUSTAINED
as an improper legal conclusion as to the agreement between the parties. 
 
Objection No. 8: SUSTAINED
as to improper legal conclusion and secondary evidence rule, and as to the
missing email chain. 
 
Objection Nos. 9-10:
OVERRULED. Not an improper legal conclusion. Does not lack foundation or
personal knowledge. 
 
Objection No. 11: SUSTAINED
as irrelevant.
 
Objection No. 12: SUSTAINED
as improper legal conclusion and secondary evidence rule.
 
Objection No. 13: OVERRULED.
Does not lack foundation nor personal knowledge.
 
Objection No. 14: OVERRULED.
Not an improper legal conclusion, does not lack foundation. Secondary evidence
rule not applicable to this testimony.
 
Objection Nos. 15-16: OVERRULED.
Not an improper legal conclusion. Does not lack foundation. 
 
Objection No. 17: OVERRULED.
Does not lack foundation. Secondary evidence rule not applicable to this
testimony.
 
Objection No. 18: OVERRULED.
Not an improper legal conclusion. Statement is admissible to show how 360
Capital held itself out, even if inadmissible to prove which entity was the
contractor.
 
Objection No. 19: SUSTAINED
under the secondary evidence rule. The evidence speaks for itself. 
 
Objection No. 20: SUSTAINED
as improper opinion evidence, and under the secondary evidence rule. The
documents speak for themselves. 
            
2.      Declaration
of Miguel Soltero
 
Objection No.
21: OVERRULED. Objection goes to weight, not admissibility.
 
Objection Nos.
22-23: OVERRULED. Not an improper legal conclusion, does not lack
foundation. 
 
Objection No. 24: SUSTAINED
as improper legal conclusion with respect “360 Capital is not a contractor.”
SUSTAINED as irrelevant as to lines 18-27.
 
Objection No. 25: OVERRULED.
Not improper opinion evidence.
 
Objection No. 26: OVERRULED.
Does not lack foundation nor personal knowledge. Not hearsay.
 
Objection No. 27: SUSTAINED
as an improper legal conclusion as to the agreement between the parties.
 
Objection No. 28: SUSTAINED
as to improper legal conclusion and secondary evidence rule.
 
Objection Nos. 29-30:
OVERRULED. Not an improper legal conclusion. Does not lack foundation or
personal knowledge. 
 
Objection No. 31: SUSTAINED
as irrelevant.
 
Objection Nos. 32-33: OVERRULED.
Does not lack foundation nor personal knowledge.
 
Objection Nos. 34-35: OVERRULED.
Not an improper legal conclusion. Does not lack foundation.
 
Objection No. 36: OVERRULED.
Not an improper legal conclusion, does not lack foundation nor personal
knowledge.
 
Objection No. 37: OVERRULED.
Does not lack foundation. Secondary evidence rule not applicable to this
testimony.
 
Objection No. 38: SUSTAINED
as improper opinion evidence, and under the secondary evidence rule. The
documents speak for themselves. 
 
Request for Judicial Notice
 
            Plaintiffs
request that the Court take judicial notice of (1) the October 16, 2020
Statement of Information for 360 Capital Ventures, Inc. filed with the
California Secretary of State; (2) Certification of Records from the
Contractors’ State License Board  dated
November 2, 2022, finding no records that neither Sachin Patel d/b/a 360
Capital Ventures Inc., nor (3) 360 Capital Ventures, Inc., was licensed as a
California contractor between December 1, 2018 and November 2, 2022; (4) the
Contractor’s license for RE3 Restoration, LLC; (5) RE3’s April 16, 2021 and
September 16, 2022 Statements of Information filed with the Secretary of State;
and (6) the First Amended Cross-Complaint in this action. Plaintiffs’ Requests
Nos. 1-5 are GRANTED pursuant to Evidence Code section 452(c) (official acts).
Request No. 6 is GRANTED pursuant to Evidence Code section 452(d) (court
records). 
 
First Cause of Action (FAC): Restitution
 
            Plaintiffs
move for summary adjudication of their first cause of action for restitution
against Defendant 360 Capital Ventures, Inc. only.
 
            A person or
corporation may not act as a contractor if that person is not licensed in the
manner provided by the Business & Professions Code. (Bus & Prof. Code
§§ 7025, 7028.) A person likewise may not advertise for construction or work of
improvement without holding a valid license. (Bus & Profs. Code § 7027.1.) An
unlicensed contractor may not seek compensation for the performance of any act
or contract where a license is required. (Bus. & Profs. Code § 7031(a).)
Further, any person who uses the services of an unlicensed contractor is
entitled to recover all compensation for the performance of any act or
contract. (Bus. & Profs. Code § 7031(b).) For the purposes of these
statutes, a “contractor” includes ““any person who undertakes to or offers to
undertake to, or purports to have the capacity to undertake to, or submits a
bid to, or does himself or herself or by or through others, construct, alter,
repair, add to, subtract from, improve, move, wreck or demolish any building
... or other structure, project, development or improvement, or to do any part
thereof,” as well as any “subcontractor and specialty contractor.” (Bus. &
Profs. Code § 7026.) The term also includes “[a]ny person who advertises or
puts out any sign or card or other device that would indicate to the public
that he or she is a contractor . . . regardless of whether his or her
operations as a builder are otherwise exempted.” (Bus & Profs. Code §
7027.) “[M]ere execution of a construction contract is an act ‘in the capacity
of a contractor.’” (Panterra GP, Inc. v. Superior Court (2022) 74
Cal.App.5th 697, 720-21.) Put differently, “those who enter into construction
contracts must be licensed, even when they themselves do not do the actual work
under the contract.” (Vallejo Development Co. v. Beck Development Co.
(1994) 24 Cal.App.4th 929, 941.) 
 
            Plaintiffs
contend that Defendant 360 engaged in numerous acts which required a
contractor’s license. Specifically, Plaintiffs state that Defendant offered to
construct a single-family dwelling for Plaintiffs at the subject property for
$1,145,000, (Separate Statement of Undisputed Material Facts Nos. 5, 16) and that
the construction contract into which Plaintiffs entered identifies it as being
a contract with Defendant 360, who is named as the contractor, and even
provided a license number belonging to a third-party contractor owned by
Defendant Soltero. (SSUMF Nos. 5, 6.) 360 Capital is not a licensed contractor,
nor is its principal, Sachin Patel. (SSUMF Nos. 17-18.) Instead, the license
number that was provided is held by RE3 Restoration, LLC, of which Patel is not
a member or manager. (SSUMF Nos. 20-21.) Plaintiffs state that Defendant
solicited invoices and proposals relating to the construction from various
vendors and subcontractors, (SSUMF Nos. 28-50), provided updates on the status
of construction as if it were providing the services (No. 48), submitted
invoices for services under its name, (No. 52-54), and posted a sign
advertising its services to the public on the property. (No. 51.) Plaintiffs
also offer evidence that Sachin Patel, on behalf of Defendant 360, entered into
agreements with Southern California Gas Company for installation of natural gas
infrastructure on the property. (SSUMF Nos. 24-26.) Plaintiffs also received
a preliminary notice from one of the material suppliers that lists Defendant
360 as the contractor. (No. 27.) Plaintiffs contend that they paid
Defendant 360 a total of $912,443.89 pursuant to Defendant’s own invoices.
(SSUMF Nos. 52-54.) 
 
            Any one example
of Defendant’s conduct would be sufficient to state a prima facie case that
Defendant 360 acted as a contractor without holding a contractor’s license and
secured compensation for that conduct. This voluminous production is thus more
than sufficient to demonstrate that Plaintiffs have met all elements of this
claim. The burden therefore shifts to Defendant to establish a triable issue of
fact.
 
            In
opposition, Defendant first argues that Plaintiffs have not established the
viability of their claims against Defendants Soltero and Patel under an alter
ego theory. As Plaintiffs are not seeking to establish the liability of those
Defendants on this motion, that argument is irrelevant. Defendant also argues
that there are triable issues as to Plaintiffs’ separate claim for damages
under Code of Civil Procedure section 1029.8. (FAC ¶ 21.) However, Plaintiffs
expressly disclaim any damages under that section in their motion, which moots
this argument. (Memo. of Ps & As p.9 fn. 2.)  
 
            As to the
substantive contentions, Defendant first argues that RE3 Restoration was the
general contractor, not 360 Capital, and that Plaintiffs were aware of this
relationship. (See Defendant’s Responses to Separate Statement No. 5;
Declaration of Miguel Soltero ISO Opp. Exhs. B-N.) None of the various text
messages offered by Defendant make any mention of RE3, however.  Nor is there any basis to infer from these
messages that Plaintiffs were aware of RE3’s existence, let alone its status as
the general contractor. Defendant also contends that it was listed on the
contract because RE3 was using 360 for “administrative purposes,” a contention
not supported by any evidence, and that Defendant Patel signed the contract as
RE3’s agent. (See RSS No. 5, Declaration of Sachin Patel ISO Opp. ¶ 14.) The
individual Defendants claim under penalty of perjury that RE3’s name was
inadvertently missing from the contract. (RSS No.5.) Defendants Soltero
and Patel also categorically deny that they ever represented that 360 Capital
was a licensed contractor, and state that RE3 was always held out as the entity
that would perform the contractor services. (RSS No. 5, see, e.g. Patel Decl. ¶
12.) Defendant contends that it holds itself out as a “design/build” firm, as
it did on the sign posted on Plaintiffs’ property, not as a contractor. (RSS
No. 51.) Defendant also argues that, in sending out invoices and payment
requests, it acted only as a construction manager, maintaining records,
coordinating construction activities, and managing financials, none of which
requires licensure as a matter of law. (The Fifth Day, LLC v. Bolotin
(2009) 172 Cal.App.4th 939, 947-48.) Defendant does not address Plaintiffs’
evidence of agreements with third parties or utility companies for services on
the property, and, although the Response to the Separate Statement claims that
the corresponding Material Facts are disputed, none of the evidence cited
pertains to those agreements. 
 
            Defendant
also claims that Plaintiffs’ alleged damages are inconsistent. According to
Defendant, the payments identified in the Separate Statement do not sum up to
the amount claimed. (SSUMF Nos. 29-50.) However, the invoices identified in the
Separate Statement are examples, and are not offered as a comprehensive list.
(See Declaration of Daniel Wang ISO Mot. ¶ 19.) Moreover, to the extent that
the total of the invoices exceeds the amount claimed by Plaintiffs as damages,
Plaintiffs have categorically disclaimed any amount in excess of $912,443.89. (Memo.
of Ps & As p.9 fn. 2.)  
 
            In reply to
Defendant’s substantive arguments, Plaintiffs contend that Defendant’s position
that Patel signed the contract on behalf of RE3 as a proxy is “incredible,
self-serving, and unworthy of credence.” Whether or not Defendants Patel and
Soltero are credible is a question of fact that may not be resolved on summary
judgment, and Plaintiffs may not challenge the credibility of this evidence on
this motion. As to Defendant’s contentions that it only performed
administrative functions, Plaintiffs argue that The Fifth Day is
distinguishable because the contract under which those obligations were
performed clearly specified by its plain language that the construction manager
would only perform administrative functions and “had no responsibility or
authority to perform any construction work or to enter into any contract or
subcontract for the performance of such work.” (The Fifth Day, LLC, supra, 172
Cal.App.4th at 948.) Here, in contrast, the contract contains no such terms,
and, instead, these duties are being carried out in fulfilment of a contract
for construction services, which constitutes unlicensed contractor work as a matter
of law. (Vallejo Development Co., supra, 24 Cal.App.4th at 938-39.) 
 
Further, Defendant’s evidence that
Plaintiffs knew that RE3 would be performing and did perform the construction
work on the project does not rebut Plaintiffs’ showing that Defendant 360 acted
in the capacity of a contractor, since contractor activities include
construction work does “by or through others.” 
(Id., at p. 940, citing Business and Professions Code §
7026.)  Nor does Defendants’ emphatic
characterization of its work as merely administrative excuse its involvement
its unlicensed involvement in the construction project.  To paraphrase the holding in Vallejo,
“even if [360] performed only administrative and oversight functions with
respect to the actual [construction of Plaintiffs’ house], it nevertheless
acted ‘in the capacity of’ a general engineering contractor by performing those
functions in fulfillment of contractual obligations owed to the owners of the
property on which the [house was built].” 
(Vallejo, supra, at p. 940; see also Judicial Council of
California v. Jacobs Facilities, Inc. (2015) 239 Cal. App. 4th 882, 905
[securing insurance and bonding, soliciting and accepting payment, and
executing contract amendments are activities in the capacity of a contractor].)   Moreover, Plaintiffs correctly note that
Defendant has made no effort to rebut Plaintiff’s evidence revealing repeated
representations of its status as the “contractor” on the project in connection
with its contracts with Southern California Gas. (SSUMF Nos. 24-26, Exh. 28-30.)
For these reasons, Defendant has failed to establish a triable issue of fact on
this cause of action, and Plaintiffs are entitled to summary adjudication as a
matter of law.
 
            Accordingly,
Plaintiffs’ Motion for Summary Adjudication of the First Cause of Action in the
First Amended Complaint is GRANTED.
 
First Cause of Action (FAXC): Reformation
 
            Plaintiffs
also move for summary adjudication of the first cause of action in the First
Amended Cross-Complaint against them for reformation of the contract.
 
            Civil Code
section 3399 permits a party to apply for revision of a contract when that
contract does not express the intention of the parties, whether that error is
the result of fraud, mutual mistake, or a mistake of one party which the other
knew or suspected, so long as the revision does not prejudice the rights of any
third party. (Civ. Code § 3399.) 
 
            Plaintiffs
contend that this cause of action fails because, first, reformation is an
equitable remedy, not a free-standing cause of action. (Landis v. Superior
Court (1965) 232 Cal.App.2d 548, 555.) Although Plaintiffs are correct, this
argument does not by itself demonstrate that Cross-Complainants are not
entitled to pursue this remedy. Indeed, Panterra GP, Inc., on which both
parties rely, extensively considers a cause of action styled “reformation” notwithstanding
its nature as an equitable remedy. (See Panterra, supra, 74 Cal.App.5th 713-14.)

 
            Turning to
more substantive contentions, Plaintiffs contend that reformation is
unavailable to an unlicensed contractor because an unlicensed contractor may
not pursue equitable relief under Business & Professions Code section 7031.
As Plaintiffs have extensively argued, neither 360 Capital nor Sachin Patel,
who are the only Cross-Complainants, were licensed contractors. (SSUMF Nos.
84-85.) Plaintiffs have thus offered evidence that the Cross-Complainants
cannot prevail on this cause of action. The burden now shifts to the
Defendant/Cross-Complainants to demonstrate a triable issue of fact in this
respect.
 
            In
opposition, Defendants argue that Panterra holds that a claim for
reformation to add a licensed contractor to a construction contract is not
barred by section 7031. (Panterra, supra, 74 Cal.App.5th at 715.) However,
Defendants misstate the holding of that case. The Panterra court
rejected the argument that reformation was barred because the contract was
allegedly made by an unlicensed person, where the gravamen of the claim was
that the parties intended for the licensed entity to act as contractor. (Id.
at 715.) However, the party seeking reformation in Panterra was the
licensed contractor, and thus section 7031 did not apply. (Id. at 702.) Here,
on the other hand, Defendants are not licensed entities, but the unlicensed
entities, and section 7031 squarely applies. Defendants have thus failed to
demonstrate a triable issue of fact as to this cause of action.
 
            Accordingly,
Plaintiffs’ Motion for Summary Adjudication of the First Cause of Action in the
First Amended Cross-Complaint is GRANTED.
 
Motion for Summary Judgment
 
            Cross-Defendant
Rosalind Wang moved for summary judgment on the First Amended Cross-Complaint.
However, Cross-Complainants requested dismissal of this Cross-Defendant as to
all causes of action on February 28, 2024. (Request for Dismissal.) This Motion
for Summary Judgment is therefore MOOT.
 
CONCLUSION:

 
            Accordingly,
Plaintiffs’ Motion for Summary Adjudication is GRANTED.
 
            Cross-Defendant
Rosalind Wang’s Motion for Summary Judgment is DENIED AS MOOT. 
 
            Moving
Parties to give notice.
 
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
Dated:  March 5, 2024                                    ___________________________________
                                                                                    Theresa
M. Traber
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court
 

            Any party may submit on the
tentative ruling by contacting the courtroom via email at Smcdept47@lacourt.org by no later than 4:00 p.m. the day
before the hearing. All interested parties must be copied on the email. It
should be noted that if you submit on a tentative ruling the court will still
conduct a hearing if any party appears. By submitting on the tentative you
have, in essence, waived your right to be present at the hearing, and you
should be aware that the court may not adopt the tentative, and may issue an
order which modifies the tentative ruling in whole or in part.