  Case Number:  23CHCV03446    Hearing Date:   September 11, 2024    Dept:  F49 


Dept.
  F49¿ 




Date:
  9/11/24




Case
  Name: Cyrus Jazaeri v. Michael R. Rhames, and Does 1-25




Case No.
  23CHCV03446



 
LOS ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT
NORTH VALLEY DISTRICT
DEPARTMENT F49
 

SEPTEMBER 11, 2024
 

DEMURRER WITH MOTION TO STRIKE

Los Angeles Superior
Court Case No. 23CHCV03446

 
Motion
filed: 6/10/24
 
MOVING PARTY: Defendant Michael R. Rhames 
RESPONDING PARTY: Plaintiff Cyrus Jazaeri
NOTICE: OK.
 
RELIEF
REQUESTED: An
order to grant Defendant’s demurrer to the Second, Third, and Fourth Causes of
Action in Plaintiff’s First Amended Complaint, and to strike portions of the
First Amended Complaint.
 
TENTATIVE
RULING: The demurrer
is SUSTAINED. The motion to strike is GRANTED.
 
BACKGROUND
 
On November 9, 2023,
Plaintiff Cyrus Jazaeri (“Plaintiff” or “Jazaeri”) initiated this action. 
 
Subsequently, on May
9, 2024, Plaintiff filed the First Amended Complaint (“FAC”) against Defendant
Michael R. Rhames (“Defendant” or “Rhames”), alleging the following causes of
action: (1) Professional Negligence, (2) Breach of Contract, (3) Breach of Fiduciary
Duty, and (4) Fraud and Deceit. The filing of the FAC mooted a demurrer
previously filed by Defendant on January 8, 2024.
 
On June 10, 2024, Defendant filed the instant Demurrer, with
Motion to Strike, to the FAC. Subsequently, on August 28, 2024, Plaintiff filed
an Opposition, and Defendant replied on September 4, 2024.
 
ANALYSIS
 
A demurrer can be
used only to challenge defects that appear on the face of the pleading under
attack; or from matters outside the pleading that are judicially noticeable. (Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal 3d 311,
318.) No other extrinsic evidence can be considered.
 
A demurrer for
sufficiency tests whether the complaint states a cause of action. (Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147 Cal. App. 4th
740, 747 (Hahn).)  When
considering demurrers, courts read the allegations liberally and in
context.  (Taylor v. City of Los Angeles Dep’t of Water & Power (2006) 144
Cal. App. 4th 1216, 1228.)  In a demurrer
proceeding, the defects must be apparent on the face of the pleading or via
proper judicial notice.  (Donabedian v. Mercury Ins. Co. (2004)
116 Cal. App. 4th 968, 994.)  
 
“A demurrer tests
the pleadings alone and not the evidence or other extrinsic matters.  Therefore, it lies only where the defects
appear on the face of the pleading or are judicially noticed.”  (SKF Farms v. Superior Ct. (1984) 153
Cal. App. 3d 902, 905.)  “The only issue
involved in a demurrer hearing is whether the complaint, as it stands,
unconnected with extraneous matters, states a cause of action.”  (Hahn, supra, 147 Cal.App.4th at 747.) 
 
A.   
Meet and
Confer Requirement
 
A party filing a demurrer “shall meet and confer in
person or by telephone with the party who filed the pleading that is subject to
demurrer for the purpose of determining whether an agreement can be reached
that would resolve the objections to be raised in the demurrer.” (Code Civ.
Proc., section 430.41(a).) A failure to meet and confer does not constitute
grounds to sustain or overrule a demurrer. (See Code Civ. Proc., sections
430.41 (a)(4).)
 
            Here, Defendant’s counsel attests
that on June 4, 2024, she sent a meet and confer letter to Plaintiff detailing
the grounds for the instant Demurrer (Niedbalski Decl. ¶ 2.) However, no
responses were received from Plaintiff at the time of filing the Demurrer. (Ibid.)
 
            Based on the above declaration, the
Court finds that the requirement for an in-person or telephonic meet and
confer, under Code of Civil Procedure section 430.41(a), has not been met.
 
B.    
Second Cause
of Action – Breach of Contract
 
“To prevail on a cause of action for breach of contract, the
plaintiff must prove (1) the contract, (2) the plaintiff's performance of the
contract or excuse for nonperformance, (3) the defendant's breach, and (4) the
resulting damage to the plaintiff. (Richman v. Hartley (2014) 224
Cal.App.4th 1182, 1186.) “A written contract may be pleaded either by its terms
– set out verbatim in the complaint or a copy of the contract attached to the
complaint and incorporated therein by reference – or by its legal effect.
[Citations.] In order to plead a contract by its legal effect, plaintiff must
‘allege the substance of its relevant terms. This is more difficult, for it
requires
a careful analysis of the instrument, comprehensiveness in statement, and
avoidance of legal conclusions.’ [Citation.]” (McKell v. Washington Mutual,
Inc. (2006) 142 Cal.App.4th 1457, 1489.)
 
            Here, Defendant asserts that the FAC
fails to allege facts sufficient to state a cause of action for breach of
contract because it does not allege the specific terms of the contract or
attach a copy of contract. (Dem. at p. 5.)
 
            Plaintiff concedes the failure to
attach a copy of the attorney retainer agreement to the FAC but argues that it
is patently clear from the remainder of the FAC as to what agreement was
referred to and Defendant should have a copy of the agreement in question.
(Opp’n. at p. 5.) 
 
            The Court notes that the initial
burden lies with the pleader to sufficiently state a cause of action. Here, the
FAC alleges the parties entered into an Attorney Client Retainer Agreement
(Medical Malpractice Contingency Fee) (the “Agreement”). (FAC ¶ 6.) The
Agreement purportedly states that Defendant would represent Plaintiff in a
medical malpractice action against Dr. Sergie Terterov, M.D., a Southern
California Permanente Medical Group staff member, and against Kaiser Foundation
Health Plan, Inc., Kaiser Foundation Hospitals and Southern California
Permanente Medical Group for negligence medical care. (Ibid.) 
 
The Court finds that these allegations plead only the
existence of a contract, but do not sufficiently state the legal effect of the
substance of any material terms at issue. Given that the terms were neither set
out verbatim in the FAC nor included as an attachment, the Court finds
Defendant’s argument persuasive. 
 
            Therefore,
the Court SUSTAINS with LEAVE TO AMEND the Demurrer as to the Second Cause of
Action.
 
C.   
Third Cause of Action – Breach of Fiduciary Duty
 
The elements of a cause of action
for breach
of fiduciary
duty
are (1) the existence of a fiduciary relationship, (2) breach of fiduciary duty, and (3) damages. [Citation.]” (Oasis West Realty, LLC v. Goldman (2011) 51 Cal.4th
811.) A fiduciary
duty is founded upon a special relationship imposed by law or under
circumstances in which “confidence is reposed by persons in the integrity of
others” who voluntarily accept the confidence. (Tri-Growth Centre City, Ltd.
v. Silldorf, Burdman, Duignan & Eisenberg (1989) 216 Cal.App.3d 1139,
1150; see CACI 4100, et seq.)
 
            Here, the FAC has sufficiently
alleged the existence of the Agreement, though it is deficient in pleading any
express terms. Nonetheless, the Court determines that a fiduciary relationship
existed between the parties by virtue of the attorney-client relationship. (see
Charnay v. Cobert (2006) 145 Cal.App.4th 170, 182 [attorney
client])
 
            Additionally, the FAC alleges that
“defendant conspired with attorneys for KAISER to sell out plaintiff’s case for
a meager sum[,]” (FAC ¶ 21), and that “the breach of fiduciary duty … came
about due to defendant’s conflicting interests having previously worked for KAISER
and thereafter taking a case against KAISER.” (Id. ¶ 23.)
 
However, Plaintiff has not included any specific facts as to
how Defendant’s previous work for KAISER created a conflict in the underlying
medical malpractice action, nor how the conflict impacted the representation.
Without these supporting factual allegations, paragraphs 21 and 23 of the FAC
are deemed deductions or conclusions of fact or law, which the Court does not
admit when reviewing a demurrer. (See South Shore Land Co. v. Peterson
(1964) 266 Cal.App.2d 725, 732.)
 
            Consequently, the Court finds that
the FAC has failed to sufficiently state the second element of the Breach of
Fiduciary Duty claim. 
 
            Therefore, the Court SUSTAINS with
LEAVE TO AMEND the Demurrer as to the Third Cause of Action.
 
D.   
Fourth Cause
of Action – Fraud and Deceit
 
A claim for fraud must plead all of the following elements:
(1) misrepresentation; (2)¿knowledge of falsity; (3) intent to induce reliance;
(4) justifiable reliance; and (5) resulting damage. (Odorizzi v. Bloomfield
School Dist. (1966) 246 Cal.App.2d 123, 128; Wilhelm v. Pray, Price, Williams
& Russell (1986) 186 Cal.App.3d 1324, 1332.) Fraud actions are subject to
strict requirements of particularity in pleading. (Committee on Children’s
Television, Inc. v. General Foods Corp. (1983) 35 Cal.3d 197, 216.) Particularity
requires facts that show how, when, where, to whom, and by what means the
representations were tendered. (Lazar v. Superior Court (1996)
12¿Cal.4th 631, 645 (Lazar).)
 
Here, the FAC alleges, “Around the time plaintiff JAZAERI
retained RHAMES, RHAMES stated to plaintiff that plaintiff’s case had
substantial merit and had the potential of resulting in an award to plaintiff
in excess of $1 million dollars. Plaintiff had no reason to doubt that representation
as defendant had been in law practice for over 45 years and further advised
plaintiff that defendant had previously worked as an attorney for KAISER and
was very familiar with their practices and medical care.” (FAC ¶ 7.) The Courts
finds that this allegation satisfies the specificity as to the alleged
misrepresentation element.
 
Defendant argues that Plaintiff fails to state elements for
a concealment of fraud claim, specifically that Defendant was aware of the
false statement and acted with the intent to defraud Plaintiff. (Dem. at p. 8.)
The Court agrees.
 
The FAC merely claims that “Defendant was fully aware of the
false representations he made to plaintiff and did so knowingly and maliciously
so as to obtain a quick settlement to acquire attorney’s fees without having to
do the necessary work to properly present the case.” (FAC ¶ 26.) The Court
finds this allegation to be conclusory and insufficient to meet the heightened
pleading standards for fraud claims. Specifically, it fails to sufficiently
plead the elements of Defendant’s knowledge of falsity and intent to induce
reliance.
 
            Therefore, the Court SUSTAINS with
LEAVE TO AMEND the Demurrer as to the Fourth Cause of Action.
            
E.    
Motion to
Strike
 
The court may, upon a motion, or at any
time in its discretion, and upon terms it deems proper, strike any irrelevant,
false, or improper matter inserted in any pleading. (Code Civ. Proc., § 436,
subd. (a).) The court may also strike all or any part of any pleading not drawn
or filed in conformity with the laws of this state, a court rule, or an order
of the court. (Code Civ. Proc., § 436, subd. (b).) The grounds for a motion to
strike are that the pleading has irrelevant, false, or improper matter, or has
not been drawn or filed in conformity with laws. (Code Civ. Proc., § 436.) The
grounds for moving to strike must appear on the face of the pleading or by way
of judicial notice. (Code Civ. Proc., § 437.)
 
In its Motion to Strike, Defendant seeks
to strike the following portions from FAC:
 
(1)  
Paragraph 27: “Defendant’s action were
malicious, oppressive and unlawful and justify an award of punitive damages to
be determined at the trial of this action.”
 
(2)  
Item 3 of Prayer:
“Third cause of action (Breach of Fiduciary Duty): Special damages as proved;
Compensatory damages as proved; Punitive damages as proved;” and
 
(3)  
Item 4 of Prayer:
“Fourth Cause of Action (Fraud and Deceit): Special damages as proved;
Compensatory damages as proved; Punitive Damages as proved.”
 
Punitive damages may be imposed where it
is proven by clear and convincing evidence that the defendant has been guilty
of oppression, fraud, or malice. (Civ. Code, § 3294, subd. (a).) “Malice” is
conduct intended by the defendant to cause injury to the plaintiff or
despicable conduct which is carried on with a willful and conscious disregard
of the rights or safety of others. (Civ. Code, § 3294, subd. (c)(1).)
“‘Punitive damages are proper only when the tortious conduct rises to levels of
extreme indifference to the plaintiff’s rights, a level which decent citizens
should not have to tolerate.’ [Citation.]” (Lackner v. North (2006) 135
Cal.App.4th 1188, 1210.)
 
“As amended to include [despicable], the
[Civil Code section 3294] plainly indicates that absent an intent to injure the
plaintiff, ‘malice’ requires more than a ‘willful and conscious’ disregard of
the plaintiffs’ interests. The additional component of ‘despicable conduct’
must be found.” (College Hospital Inc. v. Superior Court (1994) 8
Cal.4th 704, 725.) The statute’s reference to despicable conduct represents a
“new substantive limitation on punitive damage awards.” (Ibid.)
Despicable conduct is “conduct which is so vile, base, contemptible, miserable,
wretched or loathsome that it would be looked down upon and despised by
ordinary decent people. Such conduct has been described as ‘having the
character of outrage frequently associated with crime.’” (Tomaselli v.
Transamerica Ins. Co. (1994) 25 Cal.App.4th 1269, 1287.) Further, “[t]here
must be evidence that defendant acted with knowledge of the probable dangerous
consequences to plaintiff’s interests and deliberately failed to avoid these
consequences.” (Flyer’s Body Shop Profit Sharing Plan v. Ticor Title Ins.
Co. (1986) 185 Cal.App.3d 1149, 1155.)
 
A motion to strike punitive damages is
properly granted where a plaintiff does not state a prima facie claim for
punitive damages, including allegations that defendant is guilty of oppression,
fraud or malice. (Turman v. Turning Point of Cent. California, Inc.
(2010) 191 Cal.App.4th 53, 63.) “Mere negligence, even gross negligence, is not
sufficient to justify such an award” for punitive damages. (Kendall Yacht
Corp. v. United California Bank (1975) 50 Cal.App.3d 949, 958.)
 
Here, malice is claimed in two
conclusory paragraphs. (FAC ¶¶ 26-27.) The pleadings are devoid of any factual allegations
to support a finding of malice, oppression, or fraud.
 
Given that the Court has
previously sustained the demurrer as to the Second, Third, and Fourth Causes of
Action, and has found that the FAC fails to sufficiently plead facts supporting
relief for punitive damages, it concludes that Defendant’s Motion to Strike the
portions related to the Fourth Cause of Action, as well as reliefs relating to
the Second, Third, and Fourth Causes of Action, is justified.
 
Based on the above, the Court
GRANTS with LEAVE TO AMEND the Motion to Strike. 
 
CONCLUSION
 
Defendant
Michael R. Rhames’s Demurrer to the First
Amended Complaint is SUSTAINED. Defendant’s Motion to Strike is GRANTED.
 
Plaintiff
Cyrus Jazaeri is GRANTED LEAVE TO AMEND the Second,
Third, and Fourth Causes of Action and the related Prayer for Relief. Plaintiff
is ordered to serve and file the Second Amended Complaint within 30 days of
this ruling.
 
Moving
party to give notice.