  Case Number:  21STCV21382    Hearing Date:   October 23, 2023    Dept:  50 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
Department 50
 
 



R&R MASONRY,
 
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
 
H.A. LEWIS, INC., et
  al., 
 
                        Defendants.


Case No.:


21STCV21382




Hearing Date:


October 23, 2023




Hearing Time:


10:00 a.m.




TENTATIVE RULING
  RE: 
 
H.A. LEWIS, INC.’S
  MOTION FOR LEAVE TO FILE THIRD AMENDED CROSS-COMPLAINT; 
 
H.A. LEWIS,
  INC.’S MOTION FOR BIFURCATION AND SETTING OF A SEPARATE EVIDENTIARY HEARING
  AND/OR JURY TRIAL CONCERNING THE VALIDITY OF R&R MASONRY, INC.’S
  CALIFORNIA CONTRACTOR’S LICENSE (B&P CODE §
  7031(e) AND CCP §§ 597 and 598)
 




AND RELATED CROSS-ACTIONS


 



Background
On June 7, 2021,
Plaintiff R&R Masonry (“R&R”) filed this action against Defendants H.A.
Lewis, Inc. (“H.A. Lewis”), Los Angeles Unified School District (the “District”),
and U.S. Specialty Insurance Company. The Complaint alleges causes of action
for (1) breach of contract, (2) quantum meruit, (3) account stated, (4) open
book account, (5) enforcement of stop payment notice, (6) enforcement of stop
payment notice release bond, and (7) recovery on payment bond. 
In the Complaint, R&R
alleges that prior to September 10, 2018, H.A. Lewis entered into a prime
contract to provide labor, services, equipment, and materials for a work of
improvement known and described as Marshall High School Towe Repair, Contract
No. 1810063, Project No. 23A10590. (Compl., ¶ 11.) On or about September 10,
2018, R&R and H.A. Lewis entered into a subcontract for R&R to provide
labor, services, equipment, and materials necessary to do a portion of the
subject project, identified in the subcontract as “Historical Restoration,
Façade Renovation and Masonry.” (Compl., ¶ 12.) H.A. Lewis ordered extra work
from R&R, which increased the total compensation under the subcontract to
the sum of $1,008,741.80. (Compl., ¶ 13.) R&R alleges that on or about
September 30, 2020, H.A. Lewis breached the subcontract by failing to pay the
sum then due and owing in the amount of $388,059.94. (Compl., ¶ 15.)  
On July 28, 2021, H.A.
Lewis filed a Cross-Complaint against R&R, the District, and Fidelity
and Deposit Company of Maryland (“Fidelity”). On September 21, 2022, H.A. Lewis field
the operative Second Amended Cross-Complaint, asserting causes of action for
(1) breach of contract, (2) breach of warranty, (3) breach of subcontract, (4)
breach of warranty, (5) recovery on performance bond, (6) implied contractual
indemnity, (7) declaratory relief, and (8) declaratory relief. 
On
March 24, 2023, the District filed a Cross-Complaint against H.A. Lewis,
asserting causes of action for (1) breach of contract and (2) express
indemnity. 
H.A.
Lewis now moves for leave to file a Third Amended Cross-Complaint.
R&R and Fidelity filed a notice indicating that they do not oppose the
motion. The District also filed a notice indicating that it does not oppose the
motion.  
In addition, H.A. Lewis moves “for an Order Bifurcating and Setting a
Separate Evidentiary Hearing and/or Jury Trial Concerning the Issue of the
Validity of R&R Masonry, Inc.’s…California Contractor’s License (Business
& Professions Code (‘B&P Code’) § 703l(a), (d)
and (e), and Code of Civil Procedure (‘CCP’) §§ 597
and 598).” The District joins in the motion. R&R and Fidelity filed a
notice indicating that they do not oppose the motion.
 
Motion for Leave to File
Third Amended Cross-Complaint 
Pursuant to Code
of Civil Procedure section 473, subdivision (a)(1),
“[t]he court may, in furtherance of justice, and on any terms as may be proper,
allow a party to amend any pleading.” Amendment may be allowed at any time
before or after commencement of trial. (Code Civ.
Proc., § 576.) “[T]he court’s discretion will usually be exercised
liberally to permit amendment of the pleadings. The policy favoring amendment
is so strong that it is a rare case in which denial of leave to amend can be
justified.” (Howard v. County of San Diego
(2010) 184 Cal.App.4th 1422, 1428
[internal citations omitted].) “If the
motion to amend is timely made and the granting of the motion will not
prejudice the opposing party, it is error to refuse permission to amend….” (Morgan v. Superior Court of Los Angeles County (1959) 172 Cal.App.2d 527, 530.) Prejudice includes “delay in trial, loss of critical
evidence, or added costs of preparation.” (Solit v.
Tokai Bank, Ltd. New York Branch (1999) 68 Cal.App.4th 1435, 1448.)
A
motion to amend a pleading before trial must include a copy of the proposed
amendment or amended pleading, which must be serially numbered to differentiate
it from previous pleadings or amendments. (¿¿Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1324, subd. (a).)¿¿ The motion must
also state what allegations are proposed to be deleted or added, by page,
paragraph, and line number.  (¿Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1324, subd¿. (a).)
Finally, “¿[a] separate declaration must accompany
the motion and must specify: (1)¿The effect of the amendment; (2)¿Why the amendment is necessary and proper; (3)¿When the facts giving rise to the amended allegations were
discovered; and (4)¿The reasons why the request for amendment
was not made earlier.¿” (Cal. Rules of
Court, Rule 3.1324, subd. (b).)  
In the motion, H.A. Lewis
submits a “copy of a computer-generated comparison [of] [H.A. Lewis’s]
proposed Third Amended Cross-Complaint to [H.A. Lewis’s] Second Amended Cross-Complaint…” (Conkle Decl., ¶
3, Ex. B.) The proposed Third Amended Cross-Complaint adds two new cross-defendants,
Stephen Bruce Tejeda (‘S. Tejeda’) and Kenneth John Tejeda (‘K. Tejeda’).” (Ibid.) The proposed Third Amended
Cross-Complaint also adds new causes of action for intentional fraud
(concealment) and negligent fraud (concealment) against S. Tejeda, K. Tejeda,
and R&R; as well as a new cause of action for disgorgement against R&R.
(Ibid.) 
In the proposed Third Amended Cross-Complaint, H.A. Lewis alleges, inter
alia, that “R&R did not replace R. Tejeda as its RMO within 90 days of
his disassociation by death as required by B&P Code §
7068.2(a), resulting in automatic suspension or removal of R&R’s
license pursuant to B&P Code § 7068.2(a)…”
(Conkle Decl., ¶ 3, Ex. B, ¶ 61(a).) H.A. Lewis further alleges that “[a]s a
consequence of R&R not having replaced its RMO after R. Tejeda’s
disassociation by death on or about December 25, 2018, R&R did not have a
license qualifier to exercise the supervision and control over R&R’s
construction operations on the Project as required by applicable law resulting
in R&R having a sham license qualifier and R&R acting outside of or
without a contractor’s license for nearly all of its Subcontract work on the
Project.” (Conkle Decl., ¶ 3, Ex. B, ¶ 61(e).) H.A. Lewis alleges that
“R&R, S. Tejeda and K. Tejeda intentionally concealed and did not disclose
to H.A. Lewis the material facts alleged in Paragraph 61(a)-(e) with the intent
to deceive and defraud H.A Lewis…” (Conkle Decl., ¶ 3, Ex. B, ¶ 64.) 
H.A. Lewis further alleges in the proposed Third Amended
Cross-Complaint that “[d]espite R&R, S. Tejeda and K. Tejeda’s concealment
and nondisclosures of material facts, including the lapse or suspension of
R&R’s California contractor’s license from July 31, 2019 through August 26,
2019, that R&R had no RMO exercising supervision and control over R&R’s
construction operation on the Project, and R&R’s failure to replace its
license qualifier within 90 days of disassociation resulting in automatic
suspension or revocation of its license from late March 2019 through April
2022, and despite the fact that as a matter of law, including B&P Code § 7031(a), R&R was barred from filing suit against
or seeking any recovery against H.A Lewis, on June 7, 2021, R&R filed its
Complaint initialing this action (R&R Masonry v. H.A. Lewis, et al., Los
Angeles Superior Court Case No. 21STCV21382), engaging H.A Lewis in over two
years of costly and protracted litigation that R&R had no legal right to
file.” (Conkle Decl., ¶ 3, Ex. B, ¶ 67.) In addition, in the proposed cause of
action for disgorgement, H.A. Lewis alleges that “[b]ased upon the foregoing
and R&R’s violation of B&P Code § 7031(a) and
(b), 7068.1(a) and 7068.2(a) as alleged in this Third Amended
Cross-Complaint, H.A. Lewis is entitled to recover from R&R all amounts
paid to R&R for its work on the Project in the amount of $620,681.86, plus
interest at the legal rate, in accordance with proof.” (Conkle Decl., ¶ 3, Ex.
B, ¶ 86.) 
H.A. Lewis submits the declaration of Robert M. Lewis, the President
of H.A Lewis. (Lewis Decl., ¶ 1.) Mr. Lewis states that “the RMO[1],
Rennie C. Tejeda, whose management of R&R provided the basis for R&R’s
contractor’s license, died on December 25, 2018.” (Lewis Decl., ¶ 4, Ex. F.)
Mr. Lewis further states in his declaration that H.A. Lewis “only discovered
that R&R was unlicensed for the reasons stated in this Motion and the TAXC,
namely disassociation by death of R&R’s RMO, R&R’s failure to replace
its RMO, and that no RMO of R&R exercised direct supervision and control
over the construction operations of R&R on the Project, in August -
September, 2023, when the LAUSD filed it Motion in Liminie [sic] No. 3
asserting non-licensure and when thereafter Lewis obtained a certified copy of R&R’s
licensure file from the CSLB…” (Lewis Decl., ¶ 5.) 
H.A. Lewis asserts that accordingly, “leave to file the Third amended
Cross-Complaint is in the furtherance of justice and should be granted.” (Mot.
at p. 8:24-25.)  
Based on the foregoing, and in light of the lack of any
opposition, the Court finds that H.A. Lewis has demonstrated good cause to file
the proposed Third Amended-Cross-Complaint.    
Motion for Bifurcation 
Code of Civil Procedure section 1048, subdivision (b) provides: “The court, in furtherance of convenience or to
avoid prejudice, or when separate trials will be conducive to expedition and
economy, may order a separate trial of any cause of action, including a cause
of action asserted in a cross-complaint, or of any separate issue or of any number
of causes of action or issues, preserving the right of trial by jury required
by the Constitution or a statute of this state or of the United States.” 
Code of Civil Procedure sections 597 and 598 allow a court to order that the trial of any issue or part
thereof proceed before the trial of any other issue to promote the ends of
justice or the economy and efficiency of handling the litigation. Additionally,
Evidence Code section 320 provides that trial
courts have discretion to regulate the order of proof. “[T]rial courts have
broad discretion to determine the order of proof in the interests of judicial
economy.” (Grappo v. Coventry Fin. Corp. (1991) 235 Cal.App.3d 496, 504.)
The objective of bifurcation is “avoidance of the waste of time and money caused
by the unnecessary trial of damage questions in cases where the liability issue
is resolved against the plaintiff.” (Horton v.
Jones (1972) 26 Cal.App.3d 952,
955.) 
H.A. Lewis asserts that
the Court should (1) order the issue of the validity of R&R’s
contractor’s license be bifurcated from the trial of the main action; and (2)
set an evidentiary hearing and/or jury trial on the issue of the validity of
R&R’s contractor’s license at the earliest date feasible. (Mot. at p.
3:8-11.) 
H.A. Lewis cites to Business and
Professions Code section 7031, subdivision (a), which provides as follows: 
 
“Except as
provided in subdivision (e), no person engaged in the business or acting in the
capacity of a contractor, may bring or maintain any action, or recover in law
or equity in any action, in any court of this state for the collection of
compensation for the performance of any act or contract where a license is
required by this chapter without alleging that they were a duly licensed
contractor at all times during the performance of that act or contract
regardless of the merits of the cause of action brought by the person, except
that this prohibition shall not apply to contractors who are each individually
licensed under this chapter but who fail to comply with Section 7029.” 
H.A. Lewis asserts that
“[i]f R&R cannot prove it was properly licensed at all times during
its performance of its work on the Project from February 2019 through January
2021, as a matter of law it cannot maintain its Complaint in this action. Thus,
trying the issue of the validity of R&R’s license in a bifurcated
proceeding first would promote judicial efficiency…and narrow the remaining
issues to be tried in this case.” (Mot. at p. 7:26-8:3.) 
H.A. Lewis asserts in the motion that, “R&R
did not replace R. Tejeda as its RMO within 90 days of his disassociation by
death as required by B&P Code § 7068.2(a),
resulting in automatic suspension or removal of R&R’s license pursuant to
B&P Code § 7068.2(a)…” (Mot. at p. 9:11-13.)
H.A. Lewis further asserts that “[t]he July 31, 2021 CSLB license renewal
application of R&R, dated over two years after R. Tejeda’s death, also
falsely identifies R. Tejeda as the RMO of R&R even though he has already
disassociated by his death, and the officer(s) signature(s) certification under
penalty of perjury page of this CSLB license renewal application is signed and
dated by R. Tejeda, S. Tejeda and K. Tejeda…” (Mot. at p. 9:21-25.) 
Business and Professions Code section 7068.2, subdivision (a) provides that “[i]f the responsible managing officer, responsible managing
employee, responsible managing member, or responsible managing manager
disassociates from the licensed entity, the licensee or the qualifier shall
notify the registrar in writing within 90 days after the date of
disassociation. The licensee shall have 90 days after the date of
disassociation in which to replace the qualifier. Upon failure to replace the
qualifier within 90 days after the date of disassociation, the license shall be
automatically suspended or the classification removed at the end of the 90
days.” 
H.A. Lewis submits the Declaration of Robert
M. Lewis, the President of H.A. Lewis. (Lewis Decl., ¶ 1.) Mr. Lewis states
that “Rennie C. Tejeda, the RMO whose management of R&R provided the
basis for R&R’s contractor’s license, died on December 25, 2018.” (Lewis
Decl., ¶ 3, Ex. E.) Mr. Lewis further asserts that H.A. Lewis “only discovered
in August - September, 2023 when the LAUSD filed its Motion in Liminie [sic] No.
3 asserting non-licensure and when, thereafter, Lewis obtained a certified copy
of R&R’s licensure file from the CSLB, a true and correct copy of which is
attached as Exhibit 4 to the TAXC and also attached hereto as Exhibit F, that:
(1) Rennie C. Tejeda, R&R’s license qualifier, died on December 25, 2018;
(2) R&R had a lapse in its contractor’s license from July 31, 2019 through
August 26, 2019 (TAXC, ¶ 61(c) and Exhibit 5 thereto); (3) The qualifier for
R&R’s contractor’s license, RMO R. Tejeda, had not been replaced within 90
days of his disassociation by death resulting in automatic suspension or
removal of the license as a matter of law in or about March 2019 (TAXC, ¶ 61(a)
and Exhibit 4 thereto); and, (4) Without a license qualifier to exercise direct
supervision and control over R&R’s construction operations on the Project,
California law holds that R&R was unlicensed during all or nearly all of R&R’s
work on the Project. (TAXC, ¶¶ 60, 61(e).).” (Lewis Decl., ¶ 4.) 
H.A. Lewis argues that based on the foregoing, R&R cannot recover
for work performed by R&R on the subject project, and that accordingly,
“the issue of licensure should be bifurcated and determined first to avoid a
lengthy trial on damage claims on which R&R will likely be unable to
recover as a matter of law.” (Mot. at p. 10:26-28.) H.A. Lewis asserts that if
“R&R’s Complaint is barred as a matter of law, there will be no need to
introduce witness testimony and offer exhibits concerning R&R’s claims
during the subsequent trial on the merits. This will simplify the presentation
of evidence, shorten the trial on the merits, and conserve judicial resources.”
(Mot. at pp. 10:28-11:3.) 
Based
on the foregoing, and in light of the lack of any opposition, the Court finds
that H.A Lewis has
established good cause to bifurcate the
issue of the validity of R&R’s contractor’s license from the trial of the
main action in this matter.  
Conclusion
Based on the foregoing, H.A. Lewis’s motion for
leave to file Third Amended Cross-Complaint is granted. The Court orders H.A Lewis
to file and serve its Third Amended Cross-Complaint
within three days of the date of this order. 
In addition, based on the foregoing, the Court grants
H.A. Lewis’s motion for
bifurcation, and will bifurcate the
sequence of proof in this case so that the issue
of the validity of R&R’s contractor’s license will be tried first before the trial of the
remainder of the action. 
///
///
///
H.A. Lewis is ordered to give notice of this order. 
 
DATED:  October 23, 2023                           ________________________________
Hon. Rolf M. Treu
Judge, Los
Angeles Superior Court
 


