  Case Number:  22STCV14395    Hearing Date:   September 26, 2024    Dept:  O Tentative Ruling
 
DEFENDANT
COVINA-VALLEY UNIFIED SCHOOL DISTRICT 'S MOTION FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT, OR
IN THE ALTERNATIVE, SUMMARY ADJUDICATION OF THE ISSUES is CONTINUED for
supplemental briefing. 
 
Background
 
This case
arises from allegations of sexual assault while in school. Plaintiff NICHOLAS
INCLAN (“Plaintiff”) asserts the following allegations against Defendants
COVINA VALLY UNIFIED SCHOOL DISTRICT (“District” or “Defendant”), a public
entity, and KIMBERLY NORTHROP[1]
(collectively, “Defendants”): Defendant Northrop was a teacher at Northview
High School, where Plaintiff was her student during the 2004 to 2005 academic
year. Northrop began sexually grooming Plaintiff by seeking to earn his
emotional and psychological trust. After two weeks, Northrop began sexually
assaulting Plaintiff. Northrop also sexually assaulted two other students.
Plaintiff further alleges that another District’s teacher sexually assaulted
students. Despite the District’s awareness that at least one of its teachers
sexually abused a minor student at Northview High School, the District
continued to ignore Northrop’s inappropriate behavior. 
 
On April 29,
2022, Plaintiff filed suit against Defendants for the following causes of
action (COAs): 
 
1.     Negligence
2.     Negligent Supervision and Retention 
3.     Sexual Battery and
4.     Sexual Harassment
 
On July 21,
2022, Plaintiff filed a first amended complaint (FAC), reasserting the same
COAs against the same Defendants.
 
On August 4,
2022, the court found Defendant’ demurrer x MTS moot.
 
On August 3,
2022, Defendant filed a demurrer to the MTS. 
 
On September
2, 2022, Northrop filed her answer.
 

On October 17, 2022, the court issued its final ruling overruling
Defendant’s demurrer to the 4th COA. 
 
On November 17, 2022, the District filed
a cross-complaint (CC) against Northrop for:
 
1. Total Equitable Indemnity
2. Partial Equitable Indemnity
3. Declaratory Relief 
 
On November 17, 2022, the District filed
its answer to Plaintiff’s FAC.
 
On December 19, 2023, Northrop filed her
answer to the CC.
 
On January 22, 2024, Northrop filed a
substitution of attorney indicating Counsel William Blasser is no longer
serving as her counsel and she is representing herself.
 
On April 29, 2024, the District filed
the a Motion to Stay the Trial, which the court denied on 6/25/24. 
 
On May 16, 2024, the District filed the
instant summary judgment motion. 
 
On July 11, 2024, Plaintiff filed an EX PARTE APPLICATION TO CONTINUE
HEARING ON MOTION FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT / ADJUDICATION OF COVINA-VALLEY UNIFIED
SCHOOL DISTRICT PURSUANT TO CCP §437c(h), which the court denied. 
 
On September 12, 2024, Plaintiff filed his opposition to
the MSJ.
 
On September 19, 2024, the District filed its reply. 
 
Discussion
 
The District demurs to the 1st
COA for Negligence and 2nd COA for Negligent Supervision and
Retention.[2]

 
The District seeks summary judgment on the premise
that the District “did not know that Defendant Kimberly Northrop would have
allegedly engaged in sexual misconduct with Plaintiff or any other student, and
it had no information that would support a conclusion that it should have
known, not actual or constructive knowledge.” (Motion p. 12:25-27.) But, as
Plaintiff notes in opposition, that misses the mark as to what is alleged in
the FAC, the theories of which govern a summary judgment/adjudication
motion.[3] 
 
As for the negligence COA, the relevant allegations/theories of
liability are as follows: 
 
Defendants had a duty to train staff to “perceive,
report and stop inappropriate conduct by other members of the staff,
specifically including Northrop, with students” (¶65)/Defendant had a duty to
train staff on “how to spot red flags in other staff members’, and specifically
Northrop’s, behavior with minor students” (¶66) (i.e., duty to train staff) and (ii) duty to
enact adequate policies and procedures or failing to ensure their policies
and procedures were followed (¶67) (i.e., duty to have enacted different policies). 
 
But the motion (and evidence) is largely, if not
exclusively, dedicated to the application process, including a background
check, references from Northrop’s then current employer, requirement that
Northrop confirm in writing that she had no criminal record in her application
packet, and fingerprinting.[4] It
is for the first time in reply that Defendant meaningfully addresses the
failure to enact policies theory of liability. (Reply p. 2:13-16 [“This
makes clear that the District cannot be held directly or even vicariously
liable for the failure to adopt a specific policy. There is no basis as a
matter of law for holding the District liable for not having a policy, for
example, on how to recognize a child molester or grooming.”]; see also Reply p.
10:24-26 [“Plaintiff raises the issue of training in her Opposition, but this
is a red herring. First, there is no evidence that schools in 2002-2007 were
required to conduct training on the general idea of spotting “red flags” of
abuse, a concept that has not been instituted in schools until the past 10
years.”].) As raising arguments in reply is generally unpermitted, the court
continues the hearing for supplemental briefing as to this theory of liability.

 
As for the negligent supervision and retention COA, the pertinent allegation is as
follows: “Defendants owed Plaintiff a duty not to retain Northrop given
her proclivity towards pedophilia, which Defendants knew, or should have known
had they engaged in a meaningful and adequate investigation of her background,
allegations and rumors of sexual assault of Plaintiff and other minor students
at CVUSD, or red flags in Northrop’s behavior.” (¶84.) The motion addresses the background
investigation(s) and the Reply addresses the arguments and evidence raised in
opposition as to the former students (J.S. and L.B.) and Principal
Richard Sheehan’s and Assistant Principal Lynn Carmen Day’s observations. Thus,
as to this COA, supplemental briefing is unnecessary. 
 
Conclusion
 
Based on the foregoing, the
court continues the hearing for supplemental briefing as to the negligence COA.[5]
 



