


[1] It is unclear whether
Nothrop is spelled as Northrup (with a ‘u’) or Nothrop (with an ‘o’) as
Plaintiff’s filings use the latter spelling but the 1/22/2024 Substitution of
Attorney filing uses the former. 


[2] Defendant also sought summary judgment as to the 4th
COA, but Plaintiff in opposition indicates that he dismisses the 4th
COA. (Se Opp. p. 1, fn. 1 [“Plaintiff agrees to dismiss his fourth cause of
action for sexual harassment against CVUSD only, but not on the basis as stated
in CVUSD’s Motion (that there was inadequate notice). Rather, pursuant to K.M.
v. Grossmont Union High School Dist. (2022) 84 Cal. App. 5th 717, a school
district is not subject to a claim for sexual harassment under Civil Code §
51.9.”].) Thus, only the negligence based COAs will be discussed. 
 


[3] Hinesley v.
Oakshade Town Center (2005) 135 Cal.App.4th 289, 294 [In reviewing a motion
for summary judgment, courts employ a three-step analysis: “(1) identify the
issues framed by the pleadings; (2) determine whether the moving party has
negated the opponent’s claims; and (3) determine whether the opposition has
demonstrated the existence of a triable, material factual issue.”].) And when a
motion does not address all theories of liability, summary judgment cannot
be entered. (Lopez v. Superior Court (1996) 45 Cal.App.4th 705,
713-714.)
 


[4] Notwithstanding, the
Reply more adequately 


[5] The court notes
that the motion reads as a motion for summary adjudication instead a motion for
summary judgment as neither the motion, separate statement, nor reply
indicate whether an element is at issue. A moving defendant bears the
initial burden of production to show that one or more elements of the
cause of action cannot be established or that there is a complete defense to
the cause of action, at which point the burden shifts to the plaintiff to make
a prima facie showing of the existence of a triable issue. (Code Civ. Proc., §
437c, subd. (p)(2), emphasis added.) The court requests Defendant clarify
the form of relief it is seeking in its supplemental briefing. 

