  Case Number:  22AHCV00817    Hearing Date:   March 15, 2024    Dept:  3 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - NORTHEAST
DISTRICT
 



ROBERT E. WOLFE, et al.,
                   Plaintiff(s),
          vs.
 
CITY OF
   PASADENA, et al., 
 
                   Defendant(s).


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


      CASE NO.: 22AHCV00817
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: DEFENDANT SPINIELLO CO.’S MOTION FOR SUMMARY
  JUDGMENT
 
 
Dept.
  3
8:30
  a.m.
March
   15, 2024



 
I.           
INTRODUCTION 
On October
13, 2022, plaintiffs Robert E. Wolfe and Kelly J. Koelker (collectively,
“Plaintiffs”) filed this action against the City of Pasadena (“City”) and
Spiniello Co. (“Defendant”). 
On December
28, 2022, City filed a cross-complaint against Defendant. 
On May 22,
2023, after obtaining leave of Court, Plaintiffs filed the operative First
Amended Complaint (“FAC”). Plaintiffs assert causes of action for general
negligence and breach of contract against Defendant relating to their
installation of a water line near their residence at 736 Linda Vista Avenue in
Pasadena, California (“Property”). With respect to Plaintiffs’ negligence
claim, Plaintiffs allege that Defendant negligently “failed to provide a space
of at least one foot between the water line and Plaintiffs’ sewer line, and
also failed to install slurry or other material between the lines to protect
[their] sewer line from the weight of the water line installed directly above
it.” (FAC, p. 4.) Plaintiffs allege that Defendant’s actions deviated from
City’s job specifications as well as the terms of Defendant’s own proposal to
the City and were the result of a “deliberate and knowing decision to cut
corners for cost savings and to rush the completion of the project.” (Id.)
With respect to Plaintiffs’ breach of contract claim, Plaintiffs allege that
they were the intended beneficiary of City’s contract with Defendant to install
a water main. (FAC, p. 5.)
On June 23,
2023, Plaintiffs dismissed City from the action with prejudice. 
On November
15, 2023, Defendant filed this motion for summary judgment asserting the statute
of limitations as a defense.  
On February
27, 2024, Plaintiffs filed their opposition papers.
On March 8,
2024, Defendant filed evidentiary objections and reply papers. 
II.         
LEGAL STANDARD
In reviewing a motion for summary
judgment, courts must apply a three-step analysis: “(1) identify the issues
framed by the pleadings; (2) determine whether the moving party has negated the
opponent’s claims; and (3) determine whether the opposition has demonstrated
the existence of a triable, material factual issue.” (Hinesley v. Oakshade Town Center (2005) 135 Cal.App.4th 289, 294.) A
defendant moving for summary judgment or summary adjudication “has met his or
her burden of showing that a cause of action has no merit if the party has
shown that one or more elements of the cause of action . . . cannot be
established, or that there is a complete defense to the cause of action.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (p)(2).) 
III.       
EVIDENTIARY OBJECTIONS AND REQUESTS FOR
JUDICIAL NOTICE
Defendant submitted boilerplate
“evidentiary objections” to the deposition testimony of City’s PMQs. Defendant admits
their objections are “not to the [e]xhibit itself, but to how Plaintiffs try to
utilize [it].” This is not a proper evidentiary objection but merely a
disagreement over the credibility and weight of City’s PMQs’ testimony.
Therefore, the objections are OVERRULED. 
Plaintiffs request the Court take
judicial notice of a services contract between Defendant and City attached as
Exhibit A to City’s cross-complaint, as well as 8 other exhibits attached to
the cross-complaint, including proposals, insurance documents, bidding
invitation notices and instructions, documents containing City’s specifications
for the job and for providing labor and materials, an agenda report, and
correspondence, identifying specifications. Defendant objects to Plaintiffs’
request for judicial notice of these documents attached to City’s
cross-complaint. These objections are disregarded because Defendant relies on
those same documents in their moving papers. (Zwarg Decl., ¶¶ 3-6.) 
IV.        
DISCUSSION 
Defendant argues that summary judgment
should be granted because Plaintiffs’ negligence and contract claims are barred
by the statute of limitations. The applicable statute, Code of Civil Procedure
section 337.15, provides that the statute of limitations period for a latent
construction defect claim is 10 years after “substantial completion of the
project.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 337.15.) Subsection (f) of section 337.15
excludes actions based on willful misconduct or fraudulent concealment. To
avail themselves of 337.15(f), the plaintiff must prove “(1) there was willful
misconduct involved in the construction of [the plaintiff’s] home, (2) such
willful misconduct resulted in the alleged latent construction defects and (3)
such willful misconduct was committed by the defendants or the facts and
circumstances are such that the willful misconduct of others is appropriately chargeable
to them. (Acosta v. Glenfed Development Corp. (2005) 128 Cal.App.4th
1278, 1286.) “‘[W]illful misconduct implies the intentional doing of something
either with knowledge, express or implied, that serious injury is a probable,
as distinguished from a possible, result, or the intentional doing of an act
with a wanton and reckless disregard of its consequences.’” (Acosta, supra,
128 Cal.App.4th at p. 1293 [quoting Ewing v. Cloverleaf Bowl (1978) 20
Cal.3d 389, 402].) 
Defendant argues that Plaintiffs’
claims are time-barred because it completed its work on the water main line for
the City in 2005, more than 10 years before Plaintiffs filed this Complaint on
October 13, 2022. (Motion at pp. 12-13.) The start and completion date of
Defendant’s work is undisputed. Therefore, the burden shifts to Plaintiffs to
show that triable issues of fact exist with respect to the issue of willful
misconduct. (Acosta, supra, 128 Cal.App.4th at p. 1293.) 
In opposition, Plaintiffs rely on
testimony from City’s PMQs, Jose Luis Contreras and Jose Flores included as
Exhibits G and H in Defendant’s appendix of evidence. Plaintiffs argue that it
can be reasonably inferred that Defendant knew, or should have known, that
their installation of the water main was “seriously flawed” and “in violation
of both [City’s] contract specifications and [Defendant’s] own job proposal.”
(Opp., pp. 6-7.) Plaintiffs contend that the contract between City and
Defendant required Defendant to perform all work “in accordance with current
provisions of standard specifications for public works construction, popularly
known as the ‘green book.’” (AMF No. 5, citing to Def.’s Ex. H, 20:11-22:3,
25:6-9.) 
Plaintiffs specifically contend that
pursuant to the terms of the contract, Defendant had to ensure a minimum space
of 12 inches (but preferably 36 inches) between the water line and Plaintiffs’
sewer line. But Flores’s testimony belies this contention. Flores testified
that he had no knowledge of the job specifications applicable to Defendant’s
work at the time the work was completed. And, he also qualified the
significance of those specifications by stating that they “aren’t the
guidelines, the preferable measurement” and that “there’s other things that
come into play because there’s underground work done on a daily basis.” Flores
stated, “Like 36 inches separation for a lateral, you pretty much don’t see
that, to be honest, unless your lateral is really deep on the location of your
house. Then you might get that separation. But otherwise, that’s not really the
case, not on this big project.” (Def.’s Ex. H, 22:18-23:6.) Furthermore, Flores
testified that “[b]reakage of sewer lines” would “happen on a daily basis.”
(Ex. H, p. 23:7-24:10.) 
Plaintiffs also argue that Defendant’s
knowledge of the possibility of serious consequences can be inferred because
Defendant implemented “three makeshift measures” to maintain appropriate
spacing in the form of unreinforced rubber coupling, a plastic bag to wrap
around the rubber coupling, and a two-by-four plank, instead of using slurry or
pea gravel. Again, however, Plaintiffs only emphasize that these methods of
reinforcement are not in the “blue book” or “green book” while ignoring that
Mr. Contreras also stated that he has seen the use of a plastic bag to wrap a
line in a different sewer. Plaintiffs also fail to establish that any
interpretation of a “blue book” or “green book” would be applicable to
Defendant’s conduct at the time the work was performed and Mr. Contreras also
stated that he did not know “what their specs called for as far as backfill is
concerned.” (Def.’s Ex. G, pp. 35:3-40; 42:9-43:3.) 
Last, Plaintiffs argue that it can be
reasonably inferred that Defendant acted recklessly in order to “cut corners”
because the job was supposed to be completed within 80 working days but
Defendant did not complete the job for nearly 15 months. The Court disagrees.
It would be speculative to infer “a positive intent actually to harm another or
to do an act with a positive, active and absolute disregard of its consequences”
based merely on a failure to adhere to a predetermined schedule and no other
accompanying facts. (Acosta, supra, 128 Cal.App.4th at p. 1294.) 
Accordingly, Plaintiffs have failed to
meet their burden to show that triable issues of fact exist regarding any
alleged “willful misconduct” by Defendant which would bar the application of
the statute of limitations. 
VI.     CONCLUSION
          Defendant’s motion
for summary judgment is GRANTED.
Moving party to give notice.  
Dated
this 15th
day of March
2024 
 




 


 




 


William A. Crowfoot
Judge of the Superior Court




 
 
Parties
who intend to submit on this tentative must send an email to the Court at ALHDEPT3@lacourt.org
indicating intention to submit on the tentative as directed by the instructions
provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org. Please be advised that if you
submit on the tentative and elect not to appear at the hearing, the opposing
party may nevertheless appear at the hearing and argue the matter. Unless you
receive a submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume
that others might appear at the hearing to argue. If the Court does not receive
emails from the parties indicating submission on this tentative ruling and
there are no appearances at the hearing, the Court may, at its discretion,
adopt the tentative as the final order or place the motion off calendar.