 Case Number:  23AHCV02555    Hearing Date:   March 15, 2024    Dept:  3 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - NORTHEAST
DISTRICT
 



NANCY KHOA, 
                   Plaintiff(s),
          vs.
 
CITY OF
   ALHAMBRA,
 
                   Defendant(s).


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


      CASE NO.: 23AHCV02555
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: MOTION FOR TRIAL PREFERENCE
 
Dept.
  3
8:30
  a.m.
March
   15, 2024



 
I.           
INTRODUCTION
On November 2, 2023, plaintiff Nancy
Khoa (“Plaintiff”) filed this action against defendant City of Alhambra
(“Defendant”). Plaintiff alleges that at approximately 9 a.m. on August 25,
2023, she was walking on a walkway in Almansor Park in Alhambra, California,
when an 8 to 10-foot-long tree branch suddenly fell from a large tree and
landed directly on her head, causing severe and critical injuries including a
T3 burst fracture requiring an emergency laminectomy, traumatic brain injury, as
well as multiple bilateral transverse process fractures and rib fractures. 
On February 20, 2024, Plaintiff filed
this motion for trial preference pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section
36(a). Trial is not yet set. 
On March 4, 2024, Defendant filed an
opposition brief. Defendant requests that the Court deny the motion without
prejudice or continue the hearing at least 45 days to complete the discovery
necessary for its summary judgment motion. (Fox Decl., ¶¶ 4-5.) Defendant states
that it intends to file and serve a summary judgment motion by the end of March
2024 so that it may be heard in late June. (Id.) 
On March 8, 2024, Plaintiff filed a
reply brief. The Court notes that Plaintiff states in her reply brief that the
parties are amenable to an October 2024 trial date but maintains her request
for a preferential trial date. 
II.         
LEGAL
STANDARD
A party who is over 70 years old may
petition the court for a preference, which the court shall grant if the court
makes both of the following findings: (1) the party has a substantial interest
in the action as a whole; and (2) the health of the party is such that a
preference is necessary to prevent prejudicing the party’s interest in the
litigation. (Code Civ. Proc., § 36, subd. (a).) An affidavit submitted in
support of a motion for preference under subdivision (a) of Section 36 may be
signed by the attorney for the party seeking preference based upon information
and belief as to the medical diagnosis and prognosis of any party. (Code Civ.
Proc., § 36.5.) 
III.       
DISCUSSION
It is undisputed that Plaintiff is 70
years old and that her birthdate is January 28, 1954. It is further undisputed
that Plaintiff has a substantial interest in this case as the injured
plaintiff. Rather, the parties only dispute whether Plaintiff’s “health
. . . is such that a preference is necessary to prevent prejudicing [her]
interest in the litigation.” (Fox v.
Superior Court (2018) 21 Cal.App.5th 529, 534.) In support of Plaintiff’s
motion, Plaintiff’s counsel declares that Plaintiff “sustained severe injuries
which will require future medical care and has suffered and will continue to
suffer emotional distress and mental suffering as a result of her injuries
related to this incident.” (Davidi Decl., ¶ 4.) This summary of Plaintiff’s
injuries does not illustrate how advancing a trial date is necessary to avoid
prejudicing her interest in this case. Plaintiff does not appear to have a
deteriorating prognosis, nor does she show that expedited procedures are
necessary to obtain and preserve evidence for trial. 
IV.        
CONCLUSION
In
light of the foregoing, the motion for trial preference is DENIED without
prejudice. 
Moving party to give notice.
 
 
Dated
this 15th
day of March
2024
 




 


 




 


      William A. Crowfoot
Judge of the Superior Court
 




 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at ALHDEPT3@lacourt.org indicating
intention to submit on the tentative as directed by the instructions provided
on the court website at www.lacourt.org. Please be advised that if you submit
on the tentative and elect not to appear at the hearing, the opposing party may
nevertheless appear at the hearing and argue the matter. Unless you receive a
submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume that others
might appear at the hearing to argue. If the Court does not receive emails from
the parties indicating submission on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may, at its discretion, adopt the
tentative as the final order or place the motion off calendar.
 