  Case Number:  23PSCV02476    Hearing Date:   January 13, 2025    Dept:  6 CASE  NAME:  Weijun  Zhang v. Bolun Zhang, et al. 1.       Defendant All Good Escrow, Inc.’s Demurrer to Plaintiff’s Third  Amended Complaint; 2.       Defendant All Good Escrow, Inc.’s Motion to Strike Portions of  Plaintiff’s Third Amended Complaint; and 3.       Defendants Bolun Zhang and Taikoo Supply Chain Inc.’s Demurrer to Third  Amended Complaint.  TENTATIVE  RULING  The Court SUSTAINS Defendant All Good Escrow, Inc.’s demurrer to  the Eleventh Cause of Action in the Third Amended Complaint without leave to  amend.  The Court DENIES Defendant All Good Escrow, Inc.’s motion to  strike as moot with respect to the Eleventh Cause of Action to the Third  Amended Complaint, but GRANTS the motion as to the prayer for relief on the Eleventh Cause of  Action for Civil Theft pursuant to Penal Code § 496, subdivision (c), located  at page 35, line 22 through page 36, line 1 of the Third Amended Complaint, but  only as to Defendant All Good Escrow, Inc.  The  Court directs Defendant All Good Escrow, Inc. to submit a proposed judgment of  dismissal for the Court’s review and signature.  The Court GRANTS Defendants Bolun Zhang and Taikoo Supply Chain  Inc.’s demurrer to the Third Cause of Action in the Third Amended Complaint  without leave to amend. Defendants Bolun Zhang and Taikoo Supply Chain Inc.  must provide an answer to all remaining causes of action in the Third Amended  Complaint within 10 days of the Court’s order.  Defendants All Good Escrow, Inc., Bolun Zhang, and Taikoo Supply  Chain Inc. are ordered to give notice of the Court’s ruling within five days of  this order.  BACKGROUND  This is a  real property dispute. On August 14, 2023, Plaintiff Weijun Zhang (Plaintiff)  filed this action. Following multiple demurrers and motions to strike,  Plaintiff filed the operative Third Amended Complaint (TAC) on October 17,  2024, against defendants Bolun Zhang (Bolun), Jinghan Zhang (Jinghan), All Good  Escrow, Inc. (All Good), Taikoo Supply Chain, Inc. (Taikoo), Danny Hao (Hao)  (collectively, Defendants), and Does 2 through 20, alleging causes of action  for promissory fraud, breach of oral contract, breach of covenant of good faith  and fair dealing, conversion, actual fraudulent conveyance, constructive  fraudulent conveyance, quiet title, common count: money had and received,  breach of fiduciary duty, imposition of constructive trust, and civil theft under  Penal Code section 496(c).  PROCEDURAL  BACKGROUND – Demurrer (All Good)  On November 14, 2024, All Good demurred to the eleventh cause of  action in the TAC. All Good’s demurrer is unopposed.  LEGAL  STANDARD – Demurrer (All Good)  A  demurrer is a pleading used to test the legal sufficiency of other pleadings. It  raises issues of law, not fact, regarding the form or content of the opposing  party's pleading (complaint, answer or cross-complaint). (Code Civ. Proc., §  422.10; see Donabedian v. Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968,  994 (Donabedian).) It is not the function of the demurrer to challenge  the truthfulness of the complaint; and for purposes of ruling on the demurrer,  all facts pleaded in the complaint are assumed to be true. (Id. at  pp. 993-994.)  A  demurrer can be used only to challenge defects that appear on the face of the  pleading under attack; or from matters outside the pleading that are judicially  noticeable. (Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311, 318; Donabedian,  supra, 116 Cal.App.4th at p. 994.) No other extrinsic evidence can be  considered. (Ion Equip. Corp. v. Nelson (1980) 110 Cal.App.3d 868,  881 [error for court to consider facts asserted in memorandum supporting  demurrer]; see also Afuso v. United States Fid. & Guar. Co. (1985) 169 Cal.App.3d 859, 862, disapproved on other grounds in Moradi-Shalal  v. Fireman’s Fund Ins. Cos. (1988) 46 Cal.3d 287 [error to consider  contents of release not part of court record].)  A  demurrer can be utilized where the “face of the complaint” itself is incomplete  or discloses some defense that would bar recovery. (Guardian North Bay, Inc.  v. Superior Court (2001) 94 Cal.App.4th 963, 971-972.) The “face of  the complaint” includes material contained in attached exhibits that are  incorporated by reference into the complaint, or in a superseded complaint in the same action. (Frantz v.  Blackwell (1987) 189 Cal.App.3d 91, 94; see also Barnett v. Fireman’s  Fund Ins. Co. (2001) 90 Cal.App.4th 500, 505 [“[W]e rely on and accept as true the contents of the exhibits and treat as  surplusage the pleader’s allegations as to the legal effect of the exhibits”].)  A  demurrer can only be sustained when it disposes of an entire pleading, cause of  action, or affirmative defense. (See Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1320, subd.  (a); Poizner v. Fremont General Corp. (2007) 148 Cal.App.4th 97, 119; Kong  v. City of Hawaiian Gardens Redev. Agency  (2003) 108 Cal.App.4th 1028, 1046-1047.) REQUESTS FOR  JUDICIAL NOTICE – Demurrer (All Good)             The Court GRANTS  Defendant All Good’s requests for judicial notice as to Exhibits 2 through 4. (Evid. Code, §  452, subd. (d).) However, the Court takes judicial  notice of the foregoing documents only as to “the existence, content and  authenticity of public records and other specified documents”; it does not take  judicial notice of the truth of the factual matters asserted in those  documents. (Dominguez v. Bonta (2022) 87 Cal. App. 5th 389, 400.)  The Court DENIES All Good’s requests for judicial notice as to Exhibits 5  through 7, as those documents are not court record copies. (See Evid. Code, §  452, subd. (d); Newcomb Decl., Exs. 5-7.) DISCUSSION –  Demurrer (All Good) Meet and Confer  Per Code of Civil Procedure section 430.41, subdivision (a), All  Good was required to meet and confer in person, by telephone, or by video  conference before bringing this demurrer. (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.41, subd.  (a).) The Court finds All Good’s efforts to meet and confer sufficient. (Newcomb  Decl., ¶¶ 2-3.)              Eleventh Cause of Action – Civil  Theft under Penal Code § 496, subdivision (c)              “Every person who buys or receives any property that has  been stolen or that has been obtained in any manner constituting theft or  extortion, knowing the property to be so stolen or obtained, or who conceals,  sells, withholds, or aids in concealing, selling, or withholding any property  from the owner, knowing the property to be so stolen or obtained, shall be  punished…” (Penal Code, § 496, subd. (a).)              “Every swap meet vendor, as defined in Section 21661 of the Business  and Professions Code, and every person whose principal business  is dealing in, or collecting, merchandise or personal property, and every  agent, employee, or representative of that person, who buys or receives any  property of a value in excess of nine hundred fifty dollars ($950) that has  been stolen or obtained in any manner constituting theft or extortion, under  circumstances that should cause the person, agent, employee, or representative  to make reasonable inquiry to ascertain that the person from whom the property  was bought or received had the legal right to sell or deliver it, without  making a reasonable inquiry, shall be punished…” (Penal Code, § 496, subd.  (b).)  “Any person who has been injured by a violation of  subdivision (a) or (b) may bring an action for three times the amount of actual  damages, if any, sustained by the plaintiff, costs of suit, and reasonable  attorney's fees.” (Penal Code, § 496, subd. (c).)                        All Good demurs to the Eleventh  Cause of Action for civil theft under Penal Code section 496, subdivision (c),  on the grounds that it fails to state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of  action. All Good contends this cause of action fails because All Good is not a  swap meet vendor per subdivision (b) of Penal Code section 496, and because the  TAC fails to allege facts demonstrating that All Good bought or received, or  assisted in buying or receiving, stolen property knowing that it had been  stolen. All Good further argues that its duties as an escrow agent are limited  to the escrow instructions, none of which have been attached to the TAC or the  prior iterations of the complaint, and which are essential for finding  liability against an escrow company.              The Court  agrees with All Good. The TAC contains no allegations indicating that All Good knowingly  bought or received, or assisted in buying or receiving, stolen property. (See TAC,  ¶¶ 25-29, 133-137.) All Good also correctly notes that still no escrow  instructions have been attached to the TAC, nor have their terms been alleged, despite  the Court’s multiple rulings on prior demurrers indicating the general need for  escrow instructions to determine liability against an escrow company like All  Good. (See Order re Tentative Ruling (9/11/24); Order re Tentative Ruling (2/21/24);  Alereza v. Chicago Title Co. (2016) 6 Cal.App.5th 551,  561.)  The Court  further construes Plaintiff’s lack of opposition to All Good’s demurrer as a  tacit admission that All Good’s arguments are meritorious. (D.I. Chadbourne, Inc. v. Superior Court (1964) 60 Cal.2d  723, 728, fn. 4 [where nonmoving party fails to oppose a ground for a motion,  "it is assumed that [nonmoving party] concedes" that ground].) Concordantly,  this is the fourth iteration of the complaint following multiple demurrers, and  Plaintiff did not make an offer of proof as to how the aforementioned pleading  defects can be corrected.              Based on the foregoing, the Court  SUSTAINS Defendant All Good’s demurrer to the Eleventh Cause of Action without  leave to amend.  LEGAL  STANDARD – Motion to Strike (All Good)              “Any party, within the time allowed to  respond to a pleading may serve and file a notice of motion to strike the whole  or any part thereof, but this time limitation shall not apply to motions  specified in subdivision (e).” (Code Civ. Proc., § 435, subd. (b)(2).)  “The court may, upon a motion made pursuant to Section 435, or at any time in  its discretion, and upon terms it deems proper: (a) Strike out any  irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted in any pleading. (b) Strike out all or any  part of any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of  this state, a court rule, or an order of the court.” (Id., § 436.) REQUESTS FOR  JUDICIAL NOTICE – Motion to Strike (All Good)             The Court GRANTS  Defendant All Good’s requests for judicial notice as to Exhibits 2 through 4. (Evid. Code, §  452, subd. (d).) However, the Court takes judicial  notice of the foregoing documents only as to “the existence, content and  authenticity of public records and other specified documents”; it does not take  judicial notice of the truth of the factual matters asserted in those  documents. (Dominguez v. Bonta (2022) 87 Cal. App. 5th 389, 400.)  The Court DENIES All Good’s requests for judicial notice as to Exhibits 5  through 7, as those documents are not court record copies. (See Evid. Code, §  452, subd. (d); Newcomb Decl., Exs. 5-7.)  DISCUSSION –  Motion to Strike (All Good)  Meet and Confer  Per Code of Civil Procedure section  435.5, subdivision (a), All Good was required to meet and confer in person, by  telephone, or by video conference before bringing this motion to strike.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 435.5, subd. (a).) The Court finds All Good’s efforts to meet and confer sufficient.  (Newcomb Decl., ¶¶ 2-3.)  Eleventh Cause of Action – Civil Theft (Penal Code § 496, subd.  (c))  All Good seeks to strike the Eleventh Cause of Action on the  grounds that it violates the Court’s prior orders. Given the Court sustained All  Good’s demurrer, the Court  DENIES the motion to strike as moot with respect to this cause of action.[1]  Prayer  for Relief – Page 35, line 22 through page 36, line 1  All  Good seeks to strike the portion of the prayer for relief for the Eleventh  Cause of Action for civil theft under Penal Code section 496, subdivision (c),  page 35, line 22 through page 36, line 1 of the TAC, on the grounds that it  violates the Court’s prior orders. Given the Court sustained Defendant All  Good’s demurrer without leave to amend, the Court GRANTS All Good’s motion to  strike this portion of the TAC without leave to amend, but only as to Defendant  All Good.[2]   Defendants  Bolun Zhang and Taikoo Supply Chain Inc.’s Demurrer to Third Amended Complaint  PROCEDURAL  BACKGROUND – Demurrer (Bolun and Taikoo)              On November 25, 2024, Bolun and  Taikoo demurred to the third cause of action of the TAC. Their demurrer is  unopposed. DISCUSSION –  Demurrer (Bolun and Taikoo) Meet and Confer  Per Code of Civil Procedure section 430.41, subdivision (a), Bolun  and Taikoo were required to meet and confer in person, by telephone, or by  video conference before bringing this demurrer. (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.41,  subd. (a).) The Court finds Bolun and Taikoo’s efforts to meet and confer  sufficient. (Tanji Decl., ¶¶ 3-4.)              Third  Cause of Action – Breach of Covenant of Good Faith and Fair Dealing  To allege a breach of the implied covenant of good  faith and fair dealing, the plaintiff must allege, “something beyond breach of  the contractual duty itself and it has been held that [b]ad faith implies  unfair dealing rather than mistaken judgment .... [Citations.]” (Careau & Co. v. Sec. Pac. Bus. Credit, Inc. (1990)  222 Cal.App.3d 1371, 1394 (Careau).) Duplicative causes of action are  subject to demurrer. (Palm Springs Villas II Homeowners Assn., Inc.  v. Parth (2016) 248 Cal.App.4th 268, 290.)  Bolun and Taikoo demur to the Third Cause of Action  for breach of covenant of good faith and fair dealing on the grounds that it  fails to state a cause of action. They contend that this cause of action is  duplicative of the Second Cause of Action for breach of oral contract, as it  relies on the same allegations and seeks the same damages. Bolun and Taikoo also  contend that the Court previously sustained their demurrer to this cause of  action for the same reasons.  The Court agrees with Bolun and Taikoo. “If the allegations do not go beyond the statement of a  mere contract breach and, relying on the same alleged acts, simply seek the  same damages or other relief already claimed in a companion contract cause of  action, they may be disregarded as superfluous as no additional claim is  actually stated.” (Careau, supra, 222 Cal.App.3d at p.  1395.) The TAC alleges largely the same facts and damage claims for both the Second  Cause of Action for breach of oral contract claim and the Third Cause of Action  for breach of the covenant of good faith and fair dealing cause of action. (TAC,  ¶¶ 61-74.) Thus, the Third Cause of Action is duplicative of the Second Cause  of Action and adds nothing new beyond the breach of the contractual duty  itself.  The Court further construes Plaintiff’s lack of opposition from  Plaintiff as a tacit admission that Bolun and Taikoo’s arguments are  meritorious. (D.I. Chadbourne, Inc. v.  Superior Court (1964) 60 Cal.2d 723, 728, fn. 4 [where nonmoving party  fails to oppose a ground for a motion, "it is assumed that [nonmoving  party] concedes" that ground].) Additionally, this is  the fourth iteration of the complaint following multiple demurrers, and  Plaintiff did not make an offer of proof as to how the aforementioned pleading  defects can be corrected.              Based on the foregoing, the court  SUSTAINS Bolun and Taikoo’s demurrer to the Third Cause of Action without leave  to amend.  CONCLUSION  The Court SUSTAINS Defendant All Good Escrow, Inc.’s demurrer to  the Eleventh Cause of Action in the Third Amended Complaint without leave to  amend.  The Court DENIES Defendant All Good Escrow, Inc.’s motion to  strike as moot with respect to the Eleventh Cause of Action to the Third  Amended Complaint, but GRANTS the motion as to the prayer for relief on the Eleventh Cause of  Action for Civil Theft pursuant to Penal Code § 496, subdivision (c), located  at page 35, line 22 through page 36, line 1 of the Third Amended Complaint, but  only as to Defendant All Good Escrow, Inc.  The  Court directs Defendant All Good Escrow, Inc. to submit a proposed judgment of  dismissal for the Court’s review and signature.  The Court GRANTS Defendants Bolun Zhang and Taikoo Supply Chain  Inc.’s demurrer to the Third Cause of Action in the Third Amended Complaint  without leave to amend. Defendants Bolun Zhang and Taikoo Supply Chain Inc.  must provide an answer to all remaining causes of action in the Third Amended  Complaint within 10 days of the Court’s order.  Defendants All Good Escrow, Inc., Bolun Zhang, and Taikoo Supply  Chain Inc. are ordered to give notice of the Court’s ruling within five days of  this order.     