 This is an employment action.  On May 8, 2024, Plaintiff Lanordo Conn, who is represented by Suzanne E. Rand-Lewis, filed the operative Complaint against Defendants Scott Beck and Cecilia Hayes for (1) breach of express contract, (2) breach of covenant of good faith, (3) wrongful termination, (4) violation of California Constitution, (5) FEHA discrimination, harassment, retaliation, and failure to provide reasonable accommodations, (6) violation of UCL, (7) Intentional Misrepresentation, Negligent Misrepresentation, and Concealment, and (8) intentional infliction of emotional distress (“IIED”).  Defendants now demur to every cause of action in the Complaint for failure to state sufficient facts.  When considering demurrers, courts read the allegations liberally and in context, and “treat the demurrer as admitting all material facts properly pleaded, but not contentions, deductions or conclusions of fact or law.” (Serrano v. Priest (1971) 5 Cal.3d 584, 591.)  “A demurrer tests the pleadings alone and not the evidence or other extrinsic matters. Therefore, it lies only where the defects appear on the face of the pleading or are judicially noticed. The only issue involved in a demurrer hearing is whether the complaint, as it stands, unconnected with extraneous matters, states a cause of action.”  (Hahn v. Mirda¿(2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747.)  It is error “to sustain a demurrer without leave to amend if the plaintiff shows there is a reasonable possibility any defect identified by the defendant can be cured by amendment.”  (Aubry v. Tri-City Hospital Dist.¿(1992) 2 Cal.4th 962, 967.)Breach of Contract & Implied Covenant The breach of contract claim relates to a failure to maintain Plaintiff’s employment while he was performing satisfactorily.  “[T]he employer and employee may enter an agreement ... that ... the employment relationship will continue indefinitely, pending the occurrence of some event such as the employer's dissatisfaction with the employee's services or the existence of some “cause” for termination. [ ] Among the many available options, the parties may agree that the employer's termination rights will vary with the particular circumstances. The parties may define for themselves what cause or causes will permit an employee's termination and may specify the procedures under which termination shall occur. The agreement may restrict the employer's termination rights to a greater degree in some situations, while leaving the employer freer to act as it sees fit in others.”  (Guz v. Bechtel Nat. Inc. (2000) 24 Cal.4th 317, 336 (internal quotation marks omitted).) The breach of contract claim sufficiently alleges an express agreement contrary to at-will employment: “Defendant EMPLOYER, Does 1 through 100 expressly promised that Plaintiff’s employment would continue and he would remain in Defendants employ as long as he performed satisfactorily and obeyed all reasonable and lawful directions of his employment. Based thereon, Plaintiff did not seek other employment.”  Further facts can be obtained in discovery.   On the other hand, the second cause of action for breach of the implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing is superfluous and not a valid alternative theory under the circumstances here.  Thus, the Demurrer is sustained as to the second cause of action, without leave to amend.Wrongful Termination, FEHA, California Constitution, & IIED Plaintiff asserts claims for FEHA discrimination, retaliation, and harassment based on, ostensibly, age, race, disability, and religion.  There is also a claim for failure to accommodate and derivative or related claims for wrongful termination and violations of the California Constitution, Sections 1, 2, 8. With respect to the Constitution claim, Plaintiff argues only that “as in Scott, Plaintiff has asserted a cause of action for wrongful termination in violation of public policy. Thus, under the Himaka case, Plaintiff has asserted his Section 8 claim through a state law tort mechanism in order to bring a private cause of action, and Defendants’ Demurrer must be overruled.”  Plaintiff admits that the Constitution claim is not a stand-alone cause of action.  Thus, the Demurrer is sustained as to the fourth cause of action, without leave to amend.Next, to analyze claims of discrimination under the FEHA based on a theory of disparate treatment, courts employ a three-step, burden-shifting test.  (Guz v. Bechtel Nat. Inc. (2000) 24 Cal.4th 317, 354-355 (“Guz”).)  Because evidence of intentional discrimination is rare, the law permits the inference of discrimination based on facts that create “a reasonable likelihood of bias and are not satisfactorily explained.”  (Id. at p. 354.)  The tiered approach assists the Court in identifying such facts.  The approach proceeds as follows:  Once the plaintiff establishes a prima facie case of discrimination, a presumption of discrimination arises.  The burden then shifts to the employer to dispel the presumption by producing admissible evidence that its action was taken for a legitimate, nondiscriminatory reason.  Finally, the burden shifts back to the plaintiff, who then has the opportunity to attack the employer’s proffered reason as pretext for discrimination, or to offer other evidence of discriminatory motive.  (Id. at pp. 355-356.)Under the FEHA, a prima facie case of discrimination generally consists of the following elements: (1) the plaintiff is a member of a protected class, (2) the plaintiff was qualified for the position he or she sought or was performing competently in the position he or she held, (3) the plaintiff suffered an adverse employment action, and (4) some other circumstance suggesting discriminatory motive.  (Guz, supra, 24 Cal.4th at p. 355.)Courts employ the same burden-shifting approach to analyze claims of retaliation under the FEHA.  (Yanowitz v. L’Oreal USA, Inc. (2005) 36 Cal.4th 1028, 1042 (Yanowitz).)  Thus, the plaintiff has the initial burden to establish a prima facie case by showing (1) he or she engaged in protected activity, (2) the employer subjected the employee to an adverse employment action, and (3) a causal link existed between the protected activity and the employer’s action.  (Ibid.)  Once the employee establishes the prima facie case, the burden shifts to the employer, who must present a legitimate, nonretaliatory reason for the adverse employment action.  (Ibid.)  If the employer carries this burden, the court no longer presumes retaliation, and the burden shifts back to the employee to prove intentional retaliation.  (Ibid.)To establish a prima facie case of harassment under the FEHA, the plaintiff must show that (1) she was a member of a protected class, (2) she was subjected to unwelcome harassment based on her protected status, and (3) the harassment unreasonably interfered with her work performance by creating an intimidating, hostile, or offensive work environment.  (Thompson v. City of Monrovia (2010) 186 Cal.App.4th 860, 876.)  “ ‘Harassment cannot be occasional, isolated, sporadic, or trivial; rather the plaintiff must show a concerted pattern of harassment of a repeated, routine or a generalized nature.’ ”  (Aguilar v. Avis Rent A Car System, Inc. (1999) 21 Cal.4th 121, 131.)  In other words, the harassment must be “sufficiently severe or pervasive to alter the condition of the victim’s employment and create an abusive environment,” as judged by the reasonable person belonging to the plaintiff’s protected class.  (Thompson, at p. 877.)The elements of a reasonable accommodation cause of action are (1) the employee suffered a disability, (2) the employee could perform the essential functions of the job with reasonable accommodation, and (3) the employer failed to reasonably accommodate the employee's disability.  (Nealy v. City of Santa Monica (2015) 234 Cal.App.4th 359, 373.)  The elements of the tort of IIED are: “(1) extreme and outrageous conduct by the defendant with the intention of causing, or reckless disregard of the probability of causing, emotional distress; (2) the plaintiff’s suffering severe or extreme emotional distress; and (3) actual and proximate causation of the emotional distress by the defendant’s outrageous conduct. . . . Conduct to be outrageous must be so extreme as to exceed all bounds of that usually tolerated in a civilized community.”  (Christensen v. Superior Court (1991) 54 Cal.3d 868, 903, internal quotations omitted.)  Liability does not extend to mere insults, indignities, threats, annoyances, petty oppressions, or other trivialities.  (Molko v. Holy Spirit Assn. (1986) 46 Cal.3d 1092, 1122.)The Demurrer is sustained as to the accommodation claim because there is no allegation that Plaintiff could perform essential work functions with or without an accommodation.  The Demurrer is overruled as to the harassment and IIED causes of action because Plaintiff alleges that Hayes would verbally abuse him with regard to his use of pain medications for his disability.  Further facts can be obtained in discovery. Retaliation has been pleaded to the extent it is alleged that Plaintiff was terminated shortly after he requested health benefits to treat his disability. Likewise, Plaintiff has also pleaded disability discrimination to the extent it was alleged that his disability, medication use, and need for benefits were the motivating factors for his termination.  Some unusual circumstances might be demonstrated by Hayes’ comments as a manager for Beck.Intentional Misrepresentation, Negligent Misrepresentation, and Concealment Plaintiff contends “that Defendant promised Plaintiff wages, health benefits, a workplace that was fair, freedom of expression, that he would not be subjected to discrimination, harassment or retaliation based on his age, religion, ancestry, color, ethnicity, race, or perceived disability, disability and that his employment was permanent and not project based, (see, Complaint, paragraphs 5, 55-56) (misrepresentation); Defendants knew at the time the representations and concealment were made that same were false (scienter), see, Complaint, paragraph 56; Defendants made the representations and concealment in order to induce Plaintiff to remain in Defendants’ employ (intent to induce reliance) see, Complaint, paragraph 56; and Plaintiff reasonably relied upon Defendants’ representations, and suffered damages therefrom. See, Complaint, paragraphs 56-58.”“The elements of fraud, which give rise to the tort action for deceit, are (a) misrepresentation (false representation, concealment, or nondisclosure); (b) knowledge of falsity (or ‘scienter’); (c) intent to defraud, i.e., to induce reliance; (d) justifiable reliance; and (e) resulting damage.”  (Lazar v. Superior Court (1996) 12 Cal.4th 631, 638, internal quotation marks omitted.) “[F]raud must be pled specifically; general and conclusory allegations do not suffice. [Citations] Thus the policy of liberal construction of the pleadings . . . will not ordinarily be invoked to sustain a pleading defective in any material respect.  This particularity requirement necessitates pleading facts which show how, when, where, to whom, and by what means the representations were tendered.”  (Lazar v. Superior Court (1996) 12 Cal.4th 631, 645, internal quotation marks omitted.) The Complaint relates to false promise, but specific facts have not been pleaded and there is little to nothing to support the element of scienter, whether for concealment or an affirmative misrepresentation.  Furthermore, negligent false promise is not a form of actionable deceit.  (Tarmann v. State Farm Mut. Auto. Ins. Co. (1991) 2 Cal.App.4th 153, 159.) Thus, the Demurrer is sustained as to the seventh cause of action, without leave to amend.UCL Under the UCL, a plaintiff is entitled only to restitutionary and/or injunctive relief.  (Bus. & Prof. Code § 17203.)  Here, there is nothing indicating how monetary relief is inadequate such that injunctive relief would be warranted.Further, Plaintiff can only claim restitution if he seeks the return of something given up to or taken by Defendant. (See, e.g., Day v. AT&T (1998) 63 Cal. App. 4th 325, 340; Madrid v. Perot Sys. Corp. (2005) 130 Cal. App. 4th 440, 453.)  There is no basis for restitution because Plaintiff did not give property or money to Defendant.   Additionally, disgorgement of profits is not permitted under the UCL.  (Korea Supply Co. v. Lockheed Martin Corp. (2003) 29 Cal. 4th 1134, 1150-51.) Thus, the Demurrer is sustained as to the UCL claim, without leave to amend. Summary  In sum, the Demurrer is sustained as to the second, fourth, sixth, and seventh causes of action, without leave to amend.  The Demurrer is also sustained as to claim for failure to provide reasonable accommodations, with 20 days leave to amend. The Demurrer is otherwise overruled.   The RJN is denied.Moving party to give notice.If counsel do not submit on the tentative, they are strongly encouraged to appear by LACourtConnect rather than in person due to the COVID-19 pandemic. 