..................... ..................... ..................... ......
The summary displayed below was created by an LLM named 'llama3-8b-8192':
Here is the summary in YAML format:

```
Case Number: 23STCP04246
Plaintiff's Name: Verliseya Morris
Defendant's Name: California Unemployment Insurance Appeals Board (CUIAB)
People-Names: Verliseya Morris
Company-Names: Walmart
Places: Stanley Mosk Courthouse, California State University, Los Angeles
Dates: August 2, 2024, six years ago (when Petitioner worked at Walmart)
Events: Petitioner's employment termination, administrative hearing, petition for writ of mandate
Money: Unemployment benefits
Intentions: Petitioner seeks to demonstrate that the CUIAB abused its discretion in denying her claim for unemployment benefits
Facts: Petitioner worked at Walmart for six years, was terminated due to lack of hours, and became a full-time student at California State University, Los Angeles. She filed a claim for unemployment benefits under the California Training Benefits (CTB) program, which was denied.
Disputes: Whether Petitioner is eligible for CTB benefits
Acts: Petitioner's decision to return to school to pursue successful long-term employment, denial of her claim for CTB benefits by the EDD and CUIAB
Agreements: California Training Benefits (CTB) program
Laws: Unemployment Insurance Code section 1269.1, California Code of Civil Procedure section 1094.5(b)
Case Citations: Douglas v. Unemployment Ins. Appeals Bd. (1976) 63 Cal.App.3d 110; Bixby v. Pierno (1971) 4 Cal. 3d 130; Fukuda v. City of Angels (1999) 20 Cal. 4th 805
Statutes: Ins. Code § 1269.1(b), Code Civ. Proc. § 1094.5(b)
Roles: Petitioner (Verliseya Morris), Respondent (CUIAB), Administrative Law Judge (ALJ), Judge (Stephen I. Goorvitch)
Significant Statements:
* "The ALJ found that Petitioner did not qualify for the CTB program because ‘there is no lack of demand in the labor market in the retail/food service industry’." (Pet. 13)
* "Petitioner cannot demonstrate that the CUIAB abused its discretion."
* "The court concludes that the weight of the evidence supports the ALJ's findings that ‘there is no lack of demand in the labor market in the retail/food service industry’ and that Petitioner did not meet the criteria for CTB eligibility in section 1269.1(b)."
* "The court must apply the statute as drafted and enacted, so Petitioner's argument must be directed to the Legislature."
```

And here is a summary of the judge's tentative ruling in English text:

The judge has denied Petitioner Verliseya Morris's petition for a writ of mandate, directing the California Unemployment Insurance Appeals Board (CUIAB) to set aside its decision denying her claim for unemployment benefits under the California Training Benefits (CTB) program. The judge concludes that the CUIAB did not abuse its discretion in denying Petitioner's claim, as the evidence shows that there is a lack of demand in the labor market for deli associates and other personnel in the retail/food service industry. The judge also finds that Petitioner's decision to return to school to pursue successful long-term employment is admirable, but that the CTB program should be applied as drafted and enacted, rather than broadly to persons seeking retraining to enter a new field.
