 Case Number:  24STCV08578    Hearing Date:   August 2, 2024    Dept:  82 ACAR Leasing Ltd.                                                  Case No. 24STCV08578
 
v.
                                                                    Hearing:
August 2, 2024
                                                                        Location:
Stanley Mosk Courthouse
                                                                                    Department:
82                                     
Haykoush Kzlgezyan, et al.                                            Judge:
Stephen I. Goorvitch
 
 
[Tentative] Order Denying Application for Writs
of Possession
 

 

 
 
INTRODUCTION
 
Plaintiff ACAR
Leasing Ltd. (“Plaintiff”) moves for writs of possession against
Defendants Haykoush Kzlgezyan (“Kzlgezyan”) and ACE Collision Center, Inc.
(“ACE”) over the following property: 2022 Chevrolet Corvette, motor vehicle,
Vehicle Identification Number 1G1YC2D43N5101135 (the “vehicle”).  Previously, the court granted a temporary
restraining order and preliminary injunction to stop the lien sale of the
vehicle.  Now, the court denies the
application for writs of possession.  
             
LEGAL STANDARD 
 
“Upon the filing of the complaint or at any time thereafter, the
plaintiff may apply pursuant to this chapter for a writ of possession by filing
a written application for the writ with the court in which the action is
brought.”  (Code Civ. Proc. §
512.010(a).)  Pursuant to
Code of Civil Procedure section 512.010(b), the application must be submitted
under oath and include:
 
(1) A showing of the
basis of the plaintiff's claim and that the plaintiff is entitled to possession
of the property claimed. If the basis of the plaintiff's claim is a written
instrument, a copy of the instrument shall be attached.
 
(2) A showing that the
property is wrongfully detained by the defendant, of the manner in which the
defendant came into possession of the property, and, according to the best
knowledge, information, and belief of the plaintiff, of the reason for the detention.
 
(3) A particular
description of the property and a statement of its value.
 
(4) A statement,
according to the best knowledge, information, and belief of the plaintiff, of
the location of the property and, if the property, or some part of it, is
within a private place which may have to be entered to take possession, a
showing that there is probable cause to believe that such property is located
there.
 
(5) A statement that the
property has not been taken for a tax, assessment, or fine, pursuant to a
statute; or seized under an execution against the property of the plaintiff;
or, if so seized, that it is by statute exempt from such seizure.
 
(Code Civ. Proc. § 512.010(b).)  
 
Before the hearing on the Writ of Possession, the plaintiff must serve
each defendant with the following documents: (1) a copy of the summons and
complaint; (2) a Notice of Application and Hearing; and (3) a copy of the
application and any affidavit in support thereof.  (Code Civ. Proc. § 512.030.)  “The writ will be issued if the court finds
that the plaintiff's claim is probably valid and the other requirements for
issuing the writ are established.”  (Code
Civ. Proc. § 512.040(b).)  “A claim has
‘probable validity’ where it is more likely than not that the plaintiff will
obtain a judgment against the defendant on that claim.”  (Code Civ. Proc. § 511.090.)  
 
DISCUSSION 
 
            A.        Haykoush
Kzlgezyan 
 
            The
court denies the application with respect to Haykoush
Kzlgezyan for two reasons.  First, there
is a defect in the notice.  The proof of
service, dated May 21, 2024, states that Kzlgezyan was served at the following
address: “11090 Eagle Hill Dr., Kagel Canyon,
CA 91342.”  However, the declaration of
mailing states that the documents were mailed to the following address: “11091
Eaglehill Dr., Sylmar, CA 91342.” 
Second, and more important, the evidence makes clear that Kzlgezyan transferred the vehicle to ACE, which confirmed that it has
possession of the vehicle.  (Logan Decl.,
¶¶ 8, 9, 17.)  Therefore, the application
is denied with respect to Kzlgezyan.
 
B.        ACE
Collision Center 
 
1.         Probable
Validity of the Claim 
 
On or about November 6, 2021, Kzlgezyan entered into an agreement to
lease the vehicle  from Felix Chevrolet.  Felix Chevrolet assigned its interest in the contract
to Plaintiff.  (Logan Decl. ¶¶ 5-6, Exh.
A and B.)  Kzlgezyan defaulted on the
Contract by failing to make payments when due, and there is presently a balance
due of $84,874.37.  (Id. ¶ 12.)
 
            2.         Wrongful Detention   
 
The application must include “a showing that the property is wrongfully
detained by the defendant, of the manner in which the defendant came into
possession of the property, and, according to the best knowledge, information,
and belief of the plaintiff, of the reason for the detention.”  (Code Civ. Proc. § 512.010(b)(2).)  Kzlgezyan transferred the Vehicle to Defendant ACE,
without Plaintiff’s consent.  (Id. ¶
8.)  Under the contract,
Plaintiff has the right to repossess the Vehicle in the event of default.  (Logan Decl. Exh. A.)  Plaintiff has demanded that Defendants
surrender the Vehicle.  (Id. ¶¶ 9,
13.)  Plaintiff’s agent has confirmed
that ACE has possession of the Vehicle. 
(Id. ¶ 17.)  
 
            3.         Description/Value
of the Property
 
The application must include a particular description of the property
and a statement of its value.  (Code Civ.
Proc. § 512.010(b)(3).  Plaintiff has
provided a particular description of the property, by make, and VIN
number.  Plaintiff has also given a
statement as to value.    
 
4.         Statutory
Statements
 
The application must include the following statements: 
 
(4) A statement,
according to the best knowledge, information, and belief of the plaintiff, of
the location of the property and, if the property, or some part of it, is
within a private place which may have to be entered to take possession, a
showing that there is probable cause to believe that such property is located
there.
 
(5) A statement that the
property has not been taken for a tax, assessment, or fine, pursuant to a
statute; or seized under an execution against the property of the plaintiff;
or, if so seized, that it is by statute exempt from such seizure.
 
(Code Civ. Proc. §
512.010(b)(4)-(5).)  Plaintiff has
complied with these requirements.    
 
                        5.         Location of the Vehicle
 
Plaintiff seeks a writ of possession directing the levying officer to
take the vehicle from real property located at 7965 San Fernando Road, Sun
Valley, California 91532.  (Appl. ¶
6.)  Plaintiff must establish “probable
cause” to believe that the Vehicle is located at the property specified in the
application.  (See Code Civ. Proc. §§
512.010(b)(4), 512.080.)  Plaintiff fails
to do so.    
 
Plaintiff confirmed that the vehicle was in ACE’s possession as of March
11, 2024.  (See Logan Decl. ¶ 17.)  However, according to a proof of service, as
of June 13, 2024, “ACE Collision Center, Inc.” is no longer doing business at
that location.  (See Proof of Service,
filed on June 27, 2024.)  The proof of
service states that the “[s]ubject business not here” and the “[c]urrent
business is Car Parts LA, no business name posted.”  (Ibid.)  Plaintiff introduces no evidence showing that
the same person owns ACE and the new business at that location.  Therefore, Plaintiff fails to establish
probable cause to believe the vehicle is located at 7965 San Fernando Road, Sun
Valley, California 91532.
 
            6.         Turnover Order
 
Plaintiff appears to request a turnover order.  (See Memorandum 4-5.)  The statute states: 
 
Code of Civil Procedure
section
512.070 states: “If a writ of possession is issued, the court may
also issue an order directing the defendant to transfer possession of the
property to the plaintiff. Such order shall contain a notice to the defendant
that failure to turn over possession of such property to plaintiff may subject
the defendant to being held in contempt of court. 
 
(Code Civ. Proc. §
512.070, emphasis added.)  “Thus a
‘turnover’ order, issued pursuant to section 512.070, is not a
separate remedy but rather an alternative means of enforcing a writ of
possession.”  (Edwards v. Sup.Ct. (1991) 230 Cal.App.3d 173, 178.)  Because Plaintiff does not establish any
entitlement to a writ of possession against ACE, the court must deny the
request for a turnover order.
 
CONCLUSION AND
ORDER
 
            Based upon the foregoing, the court
orders as follows:
 
            1.         Plaintiff’s
application for writs of possession are denied without prejudice.
 
            2.         Plaintiff’s
counsel shall provide notice and file proof of service with the court.
 
 
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
 
Dated:  August 2, 2024                                               ______________________

                                                                                    Stephen
I. Goorvitch
                                                                                    Superior
Court Judge 
    