 Case Number:  23STCP04246    Hearing Date:   August 2, 2024    Dept:  82 Verliseya Morris,                                                      Case No. 23STCP04246
 
v.
                                                                    Hearing:
August 2, 2024
                                                                        Location:
Stanley Mosk Courthouse
                                                                                    Department:
82                                     
California Unemployment                                              Judge:
Stephen I. Goorvitch
Insurance
Appeals Board                            
                                     
 
[Tentative] Order Denying Petition for
Writ of Mandate
 
            
INTRODUCTION 
 
             Petitioner Verliseya Morris (“Petitioner”), a
self-represented litigant, petitions for a writ of administrative mandate
directing the California Unemployment Insurance Appeals Board (“Respondent” or the
“CUIAB”) to set aside its decisions denying Petitioner’s claim for unemployment
benefits pursuant to the California Training Benefits (“CTB”) program set forth
in Unemployment Insurance Code section 1269.1.[1]  Petitioner’s writ is based upon a
misinterpretation of the pertinent statutory requirement, so she does not
establish a prejudicial abuse of discretion in Respondent’s decision.  
 
BACKGROUND 
 
             Petitioner worked as a deli associate for
Walmart for six years.  (See Petition for
Writ of Mandate (“Pet.”) pp. 2 and 12 of 17.) 
Petitioner lost her employment with Walmart and became a full-time student
in the California State University, Los Angeles, with a major in criminal
justice.  (Id. at 12; see also
Petitioner’s Opening Brief (“OB”) 2.)
 
Petitioner
filed a claim for unemployment benefits under the CTB program.  Of relevance to the petition, an individual
qualifies for the CTB program when: 
 
One
of the substantial causes of the individual’s unemployment is a lack of
sufficient current demand in the individual’s labor market area for the
occupational skills for which the individual is fitted by training and
experience or current physical or mental capacity, and that the lack of
employment opportunities is expected to continue for an extended period of
time, or, if the individual’s occupation is one for which there is a seasonal
variation in demand in the labor market and the individual has no other skill
for which there is current demand.
 
(Ins. Code § 1269.1(b).)  
The Employment Development
Department (the “EDD”) denied Petitioner’s claim for CTB benefits and Petitioner
filed an administrative appeal.  (Pet.
13.)  After an administrative hearing,
the administrative law judge (“ALJ”) upheld the EDD’s determinations.  As relevant to the writ petition, the ALJ
reasoned as follows: “[T]here is no lack of demand in the labor market in the
retail/food service industry so the claimant is not eligible for the CTB
program under code section 1269.1(b). As such, the claimant has failed to meet
all elements of code section 1269.1. Accordingly, the claimant is not eligible
for training benefits under code section 1269.1.”  (Pet. 13.) 
Because Petitioner did not meet the initial CTB eligibility
requirements, the ALJ also affirmed the EDD’s determination that Petitioner did
not qualify for a training benefit extension under section 1271(a). (Id. 16.)
            
STANDARD OF REVIEW
 
Under Code of
Civil Procedure section 1094.5(b), the pertinent issues are whether the
respondent has proceeded without jurisdiction, whether there was a fair trial,
and whether there was a prejudicial abuse of discretion.  An abuse of discretion is established if the
agency has not proceeded in the manner required by law, the decision is not
supported by the findings, or the findings are not supported by the
evidence.  (Code Civ. Proc. § 1094.5(b).)
 
Unemployment
benefits of the nature involved here have long been held to be subject to the
independent judgment standard of review. 
(Douglas v. Unemployment Ins.
Appeals Bd. (1976) 63 Cal.App.3d 110, 114.) 
Under the independent judgment test, “the trial court not only examines
the administrative record for errors of law, but also exercises its independent
judgment upon the evidence disclosed in a limited trial de novo.”  (Bixby v. Pierno (1971) 4 Cal. 3d 130,
143.)  The court must draw its own
reasonable inferences from the evidence and make its own credibility
determinations.  (Morrison v. Housing Authority of the City of Los Angeles Board of
Commissioners (2003) 107 Cal. App. 4th 860, 868.)  However, “in exercising its independent
judgment, a trial court must afford a strong presumption of correctness
concerning the administrative findings, and the party challenging the
administrative decision bears the burden of convincing the court that the
administrative findings are contrary to the weight of the evidence.”  (Fukuda
v. City of Angels (1999) 20 Cal. 4th 805, 817.)  
 
Petitioner bears
the burden of proof to demonstrate, by citation to the administrative record,
that the weight of the evidence does not support the administrative
findings.  (Strumsky v. San Diego County Employees Retirement Assn. (1974) 11
Cal.3d 28, 32; Steele v. Los Angeles County Civil
Service Commission (1958) 166 Cal. App. 2d 129, 137.) A
reviewing court “will not act as counsel for either party to an appeal and will
not assume the task of initiating and prosecuting a search of the record for
any purpose of discovering errors not pointed out in the briefs.” (Fox v. Erickson (1950) 99 Cal.App.2d
740, 742.)  
 
“On questions of
law arising in mandate proceedings, [the court] exercise[s] independent
judgment.’”  (Christensen v. Lightbourne (2017) 15 Cal.App.5th 1239, 1251.)  The interpretation of statute or regulation
is a question of law.  (See State Farm
Mut. Auto. Ins. Co. v. Quackenbush (1999) 77 Cal.App.4th 65, 77.)   
 


 
DISCUSSION 
 
            Petitioner cannot demonstrate that
the CUIAB abused its discretion.[2]  The ALJ found that Petitioner did not qualify
for the CTB program because “there is no lack of demand in the labor market in
the retail/food service industry so the claimant is not eligible for the CTB
program under code section 1269.1(b).” 
(Pet. 13.)  Petitioner argues that
section 1269.1(b) does not disqualify her from eligibility because she sought
further education in the criminal justice field to increase her career opportunities
and move into a “high demand” occupation.  (OB 2-3.)  As phrased by Petitioner, she enrolled in
school full-time to increase her opportunities “for long-term employment” and
because her work in “minimum-wage jobs … was still not enough.”  (Reply 2-3.) 
Thus, Petitioner contends that section 1269.1(b) should be interpreted such
that CTB benefits are available for a person who becomes unemployed and who
seeks retraining to enter a different occupation that has greater employment
and career prospects.   
 
Petitioner raises
an issue of statutory construction.  
 
The rules governing statutory construction are well
settled. We begin with the fundamental premise
that the objective of statutory interpretation is to ascertain and effectuate
legislative intent.  To determine
legislative intent, we turn first to the words of the statute, giving them
their usual and ordinary meaning. When the language of a statute is clear, we
need go no further.  
 
(Nolan v. City of Anaheim (2004)
33 Cal.4th 335, 340, citations omitted.) 
The
statute clearly states that a person only qualifies for the CTB program if one
of the “substantial causes” of the unemployment is a “lack of sufficient
current demand” in the field and there is a lack of employment
opportunities in the field that is “expected to continue for an extended period
of time.”  (Ins. Code § 1269.1(b).)  The court cannot ignore the second
requirement in interpreting the statute. 
(See People
v. National Auto. and Cas. Ins. Co. (2002) 98 Cal.App.4th 277, 282.)  
 
Petitioner does not demonstrate that the weight of the evidence does not
support the ALJ’s finding that there is demand for labor in the retail/food
service industry.  At the
administrative hearing, Petitioner testified that Walmart terminated her
employment because it lacked hours that would accommodate her school
schedule.  (AR 31.)  Petitioner testified that she stopped working
at Walmart because she “want[ed] to make an investment in [her] future” and
because of the conflict with her school schedule.  (AR 31-32; see also AR 44.)  Petitioner’s testimony demonstrates that she
did not lose her job at Walmart due to a lack of market demand 
for deli
associates or other personnel in retail/food services.  Petitioner also presented no  evidence of any lacking demand for workers in the
retail/food service industry. Accordingly, the court concludes that the weight
of the evidence supports the ALJ’s findings that “there is no lack of demand in
the labor market in the retail/food service industry” and that Petitioner did
not meet the criteria for CTB eligibility in section 1269.1(b).
  
The court shares
Respondent’s view that Petitioner’s decision to return to school to pursue
successful long-term employment is admirable. 
(See Oppo. 5.)  Petitioner argues
that the CTB program should be applied more broadly to persons seeking
retraining to enter a new field.  The
court must apply the statute as drafted and enacted, so Petitioner’s argument
must be directed to the Legislature.    
 
CONCLUSION AND
ORDER
 
            Based upon the foregoing, the court
finds that Petitioner has not demonstrate a prejudicial abuse of discretion in
Respondent’s findings and decision, per Code of Civil Procedure section
1094.5(b).  Therefore, the petition is
denied.  Respondent’s counsel shall
provide notice and file proof of service with the court.  
 
 
IT IS SO ORDERED. 
 
 
Dated: August 2,
2024                        
                                                                                    ______________________

                                                                                    Stephen
I. Goorvitch
                                                                                    Superior
Court Judge 
    
 


