  Case Number:  22STCP04162    Hearing Date:   August 2, 2024    Dept:  82 Lionel
Williams v. California Unemployment Insurance Appeals Board
Case No. 22STCP04162
[Tentative] Order Denying Motion to Vacate
Judgment
 
            Petitioner
Lionel C. Williams (“Petitioner”), a self-represented litigant, filed a
petition for writ of mandate setting aside the decision of Respondent, the
California Unemployment Insurance Appeals Board (the “Board”).  The Board affirmed a decision by the
Employment Development Department (the “EDD”) that Petitioner received an
overpayment of unemployment insurance benefits. 
Petitioner filed an opening brief on December 14, 2023, and a reply
brief on March 28, 2024, which the court reviewed and considered.  In advance of the hearing, the court posted a
tentative order denying the petition on the merits.  Petitioner did not appear at the hearing on
April 17, 2024, so the court adopted the tentative order.
 
            Now,
Petitioner seeks to vacate that order under Code of Civil Procedure section
473(b).  That section provides that “the
court may, upon any terms as may be just, relieve a party or his or her legal
representative from a judgment, dismissal, order, or other proceeding taken
against him or her through his or her mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or
excusable neglect.”  (Code Civ. Proc. §
473(b).)  “The general underlying purpose
of section 473(b) is to promote the determination of actions on their
merits.”  (Austin v. Los Angeles
Unified School Dist. (2016) 244 Cal.App.4th 918, 928, citation omitted.)  The court has discretion whether to grant
relief.[1]  
 
Petitioner represents that he did not appear at the hearing on
April 17, 2024, as a result of a diabetic emergency.  (See Motion to Set Aside Default (“Mot.”)
1-3.)  As an initial matter, Petitioner
has not submitted a sworn declaration or other admissible evidence corroborating
that representation.  Although
Petitioner’s provides a document purporting to be a note from someone at Health
Service Alliance, it is not sufficient. 
The note is not properly authenticated; the identity and profession of
the signatory is unclear; and the note provides no detail why Petitioner could
not have attended the hearing.
 
Regardless, even accepting Petitioner’s representation,
there is no basis to grant the motion. 
The court decided the petition on the merits after considering
Petitioner’s briefs and the administrative record.  The court denied the petition, finding that
Petitioner was not entitled to unemployment insurance, because he earned
“wages” during the relevant time period. 
Given the certainty of the statutes and regulations, oral argument would
not have resulted in a different decision.[2]  In his motion, Petitioner does not identify
any argument that he failed to raise in the pleadings.
 
Based upon the foregoing, the court finds that the judgment
was not entered against Petitioner as a result of his failure to appear at the
hearing.  The court also finds that the
requested relief would be futile, as the court would be required to enter the
same order following a hearing. 
Therefore, the court orders as follows:
 
1.         Petitioner’s
motion is denied.
 
2.         The court’s
clerk shall provide notice.    
 


