 Case Number:  23STCV26021    Hearing Date:   January 13, 2025    Dept:  27 SUPERIOR COURT OF
THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF
LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



RODNEY
  ANTONIO HOWARD                Plaintiff,
            vs.
 
WALTER THOMAS BOOTH, et al
 

                        Defendants.
 



)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
 


   
  CASE NO.: 23STCV26021
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER GRANTING MOTIONS
  TO COMPEL INITIAL RESPONSES 
 
Dept. 27
1:30 p.m.
January 13, 2024






On July 23, 2023, Plaintiff served Defendant Denali Water Solutions, LLC
with Form Interrogatories, Set One, Special Interrogatories, Set One, Requests
for Production (RFP), Set One, and Requests for Admission (RFA), Set One. On
August 26, 2024, Plaintiff granted Defendant an extension to serve the
responses by September 9, 2024. However, responses were not served until
November 8, 2024, and the responses were neither verified nor signed by
Defendant. Plaintiff attempted to meet and confer regarding the unverified
responses, but Defendant has yet to provide verifications. Plaintiff now moves
the Court to compel Defendant to provide verified responses to the discovery at
issue without objections.
Defendant’s responses were served after the agreed extension date of
September 9, 2024, and therefore, Defendant has waived all objections.
Moreover, because Defendant’s responses are unverified, they are tantamount to
no response at all. (Appleton v. Superior Court (1988) 206 Cal.App.3d
632, 636.) Accordingly, Plaintiff’s motion to compel initial responses is
proper despite Defendant’s unverified responses. Additionally, Defendant did
not file an opposition contesting Plaintiff’s timeline or allegations. Therefore,
the motions are granted. Defendant DENALI WATER SOLUTIONS, LLC is ordered to
provide complete and verified responses to Plaintiff’s first set of Form
Interrogatories, Special Interrogatories, RFP, and RFA without objections
within 20 days of today. Should Plaintiff have issues with the substance of the
responses or believe the responses are not code-compliant, the present motion
is not the appropriate vehicle to address those issues. Instead, a motion to
compel further responses would be the proper course of action.
Plaintiff requests sanctions in the amount of $3,310 for each motion.
Sanctions are mandatory, as Defendant did not act with substantial
justification. Nevertheless, the Court finds the requested amount excessive and
reduces the sanctions to $2,000 for all four motions. Sanctions in the amount
of $2,000 are ordered against Defendant and its attorney, jointly and
severally, payable to Plaintiff within 20 days of today.
 
Parties
who intend to submit on this tentative must send an email to the Court at
SSCDEPT27@lacourt.org indicating intention
to submit on the tentative as directed by
the instructions provided on the court’s website at www.lacourt.org.  Please be advised that if you submit on the
tentative and elect not to appear at the hearing, the opposing party may
nevertheless appear at the hearing and argue the matter.  Unless you receive a submission from all
other parties in the matter, you should assume that others might appear at the
hearing to argue.  If the Court does not
receive emails from the parties indicating submission on this tentative ruling
and there are no appearances at the hearing, the Court may, at its discretion,
adopt the tentative as the final order or place the motion off calendar.
 
 
 




 


 




 


Hon. Lee S. Arian
Judge of the Superior Court




 
 