 Case Number:  23STCV07412    Hearing Date:   January 13, 2025    Dept:  27 SUPERIOR COURT OF
THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF
LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



MARISOL
  MERCADO                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
 
ALISON AGOSTI, et al
 

                        Defendants.
 



)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
 


   
  CASE NO.: 23STCV07412
 
[TENTATIVE] MOTION TO COMPEL INITIAL
  RESPONSES IS GRANTED
 
Dept. 27
1:30 p.m.
January 13, 2024






On
April 3, 2023, Plaintiff filed the present motor vehicle accident case. On
September 9, 2024, Plaintiff’s counsel was relieved, and Plaintiff has been proceeding
in pro per since that date. On October 16, 2024, Defendant Alison Agosti served
her Special Interrogatories (Set Two) on Plaintiff. On November 26, 2024,
Defendant attempted to meet and confer with Plaintiff regarding the overdue
discovery but received no responses. As of December 10, 2024, when the present
motion was filed, Plaintiff had not served responses to the discovery at issue.
Defendant now moves the Court to compel initial responses.
Plaintiff
did not file an opposition or provide any indication to the Court that
responses had been served prior to the hearing date. Accordingly, Defendant’s
motion is granted, and Plaintiff is ordered to serve complete and verified
responses to Defendant Alison Agosti’s Special Interrogatories (Set Two),
without objections, within 20 days of today.
Defendant
requests sanctions in the amount of $572.00, which the Court finds reasonable.
Sanctions are mandatory under Code of Civil Procedure section 2030.290(c), and
Plaintiff did not act with substantial justification. Therefore, sanctions in
the amount of $572.00 are ordered against Plaintiff, payable to Defendant
within 20 days of today.
Parties
who intend to submit on this tentative must send an email to the Court at
SSCDEPT27@lacourt.org indicating intention
to submit on the tentative as directed by
the instructions provided on the court’s website at www.lacourt.org.  Please be advised that if you submit on the
tentative and elect not to appear at the hearing, the opposing party may
nevertheless appear at the hearing and argue the matter.  Unless you receive a submission from all
other parties in the matter, you should assume that others might appear at the
hearing to argue.  If the Court does not
receive emails from the parties indicating submission on this tentative ruling
and there are no appearances at the hearing, the Court may, at its discretion,
adopt the tentative as the final order or place the motion off calendar.
 
 
 




 


 




 


Hon. Lee S. Arian
Judge of the Superior Court




 
 