 Case Number:  22STCV09483    Hearing Date:   February 6, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


February
  6, 2024




CASE NUMBER:


22STCV09483




MOTIONS:  


Compel
  Responses to Request for Production of Documents, Set One




MOVING PARTY:


Defendant Long Beach Public Transportation
  Company




OPPOSING PARTY:


Unopposed



 
 
BACKGROUND
 
            Defendant Long Beach Public
Transportation Company (Defendant) moves to compel Plaintiff Juana Sandoval’s (Plaintiff)
responses to Request for Production of Documents, Set One. Defendant also seeks
monetary sanctions. 
 
LEGAL
STANDARD 
 
Under Code of Civil Procedure Section 2031.300, if a party
fails to serve a timely response to a demand for inspection, the party making
the demand may move for an order compelling response to the demand. (Code Civ.
Pro § 2031.300 (b).) The party who fails to serve a timely response to a demand
for inspection waives any objection to the demand unless the court finds that
the party has subsequently served a response that is in substantial compliance
or party’s failure was the result of mistake, inadvertence, or excusable
neglect. (Code Civ. Proc. § 2031.300 (a)(1)- (2).)  
 
Courts shall impose a monetary sanction against any party
who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel a response to a demand
for inspection unless the party acted with substantial justification or other
circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust. (Code Civ. Proc. §
2031.300 (c).) Further, “[t]he court may award sanctions under the Discovery
Act in favor of a party who files a motion to compel discovery, even though no
opposition to the motion was filed, or opposition to the motion was withdrawn,
or the requested discovery was provided to the moving party after the motion
was filed.” (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1348(a).) 
 
DISCUSSION
 
Defendant asserts that on September 28, 2022, it served Request for
Production of Documents, Set One, on Plaintiff. (Sullivan Decl. ¶ 3, Exh. A.)
Extensions to respond were granted until January 10, 2023, when Defendant
requested responses without objections. (Id. ¶ 4.) No response has been
served. (Id. ¶ 6.)¿¿¿¿ 
 
            Plaintiff did not file an
opposition to this motion, but a Non-Opposition Declaration. In it, Plaintiff’s
counsel does not state that verified responses to the Request for Production were
served. Therefore, since responses were not served, the motion to compel is
granted. 
 
            Defendant requests sanctions against
Plaintiff and her counsel of record for $1,250. This amount represents an
hourly rate of $250. Given the type of motion and lack of an opposition, the
Court finds this amount is excessive and reduces it to $375 (1.5 hours of
attorney time).
 
CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
 
Accordingly, Defendant’s Motion to compel is GRANTED. Plaintiff shall
serve properly verified responses, without objections, to Request
for Production of Documents, Set One, within 10 days.
 
The Court GRANTS Defendant’s request for monetary sanctions against Plaintiff
and her counsel of record, jointly and severally, in the reduced amount of $375.
Said monetary sanctions are to be paid to counsel for Defendant within 30 days
of the date of this order.
 
Defendant
to provide notice and file a proof of service of such. 
 