 Case Number:  21STCV13360    Hearing Date:   February 6, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court. 

 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


February
  6, 2024




CASE NUMBER:


21STCV13360




MOTIONS:  


(1)
  Compel Responses to Form Interrogatories, Set One
(2)
  Compel Responses to Special Interrogatories, Set One
(3)
  Compel Responses to Form Interrogatories, Set One




MOVING PARTY:


Defendants
  Ruben Salvador Espinoza and Javier Espinoza Diaz




OPPOSING PARTY:


Unopposed



 
 
BACKGROUND
 
            Defendants Ruben Salvador
Espinoza and Javier Espinoza Diaz (Defendants) move to compel Plaintiff Alexander
Ramirez to serve verified responses, without objections, to Special Interrogatories,
Set One. Defendants also move to compel Plaintiff Esmeralda Espinoza to serve
verified responses, without objections, to Special Interrogatories, Set One and
Form Interrogatories, Set One.  Defendants
seek monetary sanctions. No opposition has been filed. 
 
LEGAL
STANDARD
 
If a party to whom interrogatories are directed fails to serve a
timely response, the propounding party may move for an order compelling
responses. (Code Civ. Proc. § 2030.290 (b).) Failure to timely respond waives
all objections, including privilege and work product, unless “[t]he party has
subsequently served a response that is in substantial compliance” and “[t]he
party’s failure to serve a timely response was the result of mistake,
inadvertence, or excusable neglect.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.290 (a)(1),
(a)(2).) The statute contains no time limit for a motion to compel where no
responses have been served and no meet and confer is required when a party does
not respond to discovery requests. All that need be shown in the moving papers
is that a set of interrogatories was properly served on the opposing party,
that the time to respond has expired, and that no response of any kind has been
served. (Leach v. Superior Court (1980) 111 Cal.App.3d 902, 905-906.) 
 
If a motion to compel responses is filed, the Court shall impose a
monetary sanction against the losing party “unless it finds that the one
subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other
circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.” (Code Civ. Proc., §§
2030.290 (c).) Further, “[t]he court may award sanctions under the Discovery
Act in favor of a party who files a motion to compel discovery, even though no
opposition to the motion was filed, or opposition to the motion was withdrawn,
or the requested discovery was provided to the moving party after the motion
was filed.” (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1348(a).
 
 
DISCUSSION
 
Here, Defendants served Special Interrogatories, Set One, on Plaintiff
Alexander Ramirez on June 8, 2023.[1] (Jozana
Decl. ¶ 2, Exh. A.) Defendants also served Plaintiff Esmeralda Espinoza with Special
Interrogatories and Form Interrogatories, Set One, on June 8, 2023. Defendants’
counsel granted multiple extensions for discovery, without objections, until
August 25, 2023. (Id. ¶ 6–9.) Since then, no responses have been served. (Id. ¶
8.)  Therefore, because responses have not been
served, the motions to compel are granted. 
 
Defendants also
request $233.00 in monetary sanctions for each of the three motions. This represents
an hourly rate of $150.00 for 1 hours preparing each motion, the $60.00 filing
fee, and the $23 fee to appear remotely at the hearing. (Id. ¶ 12.) The Court
finds sanctions are warranted because Plaintiffs have failed to respond. 
             
 
CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
 
Accordingly, Defendants’ Motion to Compel Special Interrogatories, Set
One is GRANTED. Plaintiff Alexander Ramirez shall provide verified responses,
without objection, within 30 days.
 
Defendants’ Motion to Compel Demand for Special Interrogatories, Set
One and Form Interrogatories, Set One is GRANTED. Plaintiff Esmeralda Espinoza
shall provide verified responses, without objection, within 30 days.
 
The Court further GRANTS Defendants’ request for monetary sanctions
against Plaintiff Alexander Ramirez and his attorney of record, jointly and
severally, in the amount of $233. The Court further GRANTS Defendants’
request for monetary sanctions against Plaintiff Esmeralda Espinoza and her
attorney of record, jointly and severally, in the amount of $466.00.
Said
monetary sanctions are to be paid to counsel for Defendants within 30 days of
the date of this order.
 
Defendants
shall provide notice of the Court’s order and file a proof of service of such. 


