 Case Number:  21STCV01071    Hearing Date:   February 6, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


February
  6, 2024




CASE NUMBER:


21STCV01071




MOTIONS:  


Amended
  Petition for Minors Compromise 




MOVING PARTY:


Petitioner Karina Molinar  




OPPOSING PARTY:


Unopposed
  



 
 
The Court has reviewed the revised
Petition to Approve Compromise of Pending Action of a Minor, Othaniel Molinar, age 3. The Court denies the
petition without prejudice for the following reasons. 
 
According to the terms of the settlement Plaintiffs will
receive $550,000 total and have agreed to apportion $450,000 to Claimant.
Therefore, the gross amount will be $450,000, and not $550,000 as indicated in
item 10 of the Petition. 
 
As previously indicated, Petitioner selected item 14b and
included attachment 14, indicating she will pay the medical expenses and
attorney fees/costs. However, the Order Approving the Compromise (MC-351) shows
that the payments will made payable to Claimant’s attorney and directly to
Department of Health Care Services. Therefore, it is unclear how Petitioner
will be obligated to pay these fees. Petitioner should select 14a instead.    
 
In the proposed order, MC-351, Petitioner selected
“Continued on Attachment 8a(4)” without submitting the attachment. 
 
Accordingly, the Court denies the petition without prejudice.
 
Petitioner shall give notice and file a
proof of service of such.
 