 Case Number:  22STCV31721    Hearing Date:   February 6, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE
RULING 
 



DEPARTMENT


32




HEARING DATE


February
  6, 2024




CASE NUMBER


22STCV31721




MOTION


Motion to Continue Trial and Related Dates




MOVING PARTIES


Defendant/
  Cross-Complainant Quincy Douglas Sanders II




OPPOSING PARTY


Unopposed
  



 
MOTION
 
Defendant/ Cross-Complainant Quincy Douglas Sanders II (“Defendant”) moves
to continue trial and all related dates. No opposition has been filed. 
 
BACKGROUND
 
The complaint was filed on September 28, 2022. 
 
Defendant’s answer was filed on May 19, 2023. 
 
On May 19, 2023, Defendant also filed a cross complaint against Sandra
Elizabeth Roca and Roes 1 to 50. 
 
On June 20, 2023, Sandra Elizabeth Roca filed an answer to the
cross-complaint. 
 
Trial is currently set for March 27, 2024. There have
been no prior continuances in this case.
 
ANALYSIS
 
Legal
Standard
 
¿“Continuances are granted only on an affirmative showing
of good cause requiring a continuance.”¿ (In re Marriage of Falcone &
Fyke (2008) 164 Cal.App.4th 814, 823.)¿ A trial court has broad discretion
in considering a request for a trial continuance.¿ (Pham v. Nguyen
(1997) 54 Cal.App.4th 11, 13-18.)¿ California Rules of Court, rule 3.1332 sets
forth factors for the Court to consider in ruling on a motion to continue
trial.¿ 
 
“To ensure the prompt disposition
of civil cases, the dates assigned for a trial are firm. All parties and their
counsel must regard the date set for trial as certain.” (Cal. Rules of Court,
rule 3.1332(a).)  
 
“A party seeking a continuance of
the date set for trial, whether contested or uncontested or stipulated to by
the parties, must make the request for a continuance by a noticed motion or an
ex parte application under the rules in chapter 4 of this division, with
supporting declarations. The party must make the motion or application as soon
as reasonably practical once the necessity for the continuance is discovered.”
(Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1332(b).) 
 
“Although continuances of trials are disfavored, each
request for a continuance must be considered on its own merits. The court may
grant a continuance only on an affirmative showing of good cause requiring the
continuance. Circumstances that may indicate good cause include: 
 
1.    
The unavailability of an
essential lay or expert witness because of death, illness, or other excusable
circumstances; 
2.    
The unavailability of a party
because of death, illness, or other excusable circumstances; 
3.    
The unavailability of trial
counsel because of death, illness, or other excusable circumstances;  
4.    
The substitution of trial
counsel, but only where there is an affirmative showing that the substitution
is required in the interests of justice; 
5.    
The addition of a new party
if: 
A.            
The new party has not had a reasonable
opportunity to conduct discovery and prepare for trial; or 
B.             
The other parties have not
had a reasonable opportunity to conduct discovery and prepare for trial in
regard to the new party’s involvement in the case; 
6.    
A party’s excused inability
to obtain essential testimony, documents, or other material evidence despite
diligent efforts; or 
7.    
A significant, unanticipated
change in the status of the case as a result of which the case is not ready for
trial.”  
(Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1332(c).) 
 
“In ruling on a motion or application for continuance, the
court must consider all the facts and circumstances that are relevant to the
determination. These may include: 
 
1.    
The proximity of the trial
date; 
2.    
Whether there was any
previous continuance, extension of time, or delay of trial due to any party; 
3.    
The length of the continuance
requested; 
4.    
The availability of
alternative means to address the problem that gave rise to the motion or
application for a continuance; 
5.    
The prejudice that parties or
witnesses will suffer as a result of the continuance; 
6.    
If the case is entitled to a
preferential trial setting, the reasons for that status and whether the need
for a continuance outweighs the need to avoid delay; 
7.    
The court’s calendar and the impact
of granting a continuance on other pending trials; 
8.    
Whether trial counsel is
engaged in another trial; 
9.    
Whether all parties have
stipulated to a continuance; 
10.   
Whether the interests of
justice are best served by a continuance, by the trial of the matter, or by
imposing conditions on the continuance; and 
11.   
Any other fact or
circumstance relevant to the fair determination of the motion or application. 
(Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1332(d).) 
 
Discussion
 
Defendant requests the Court continue trial and all related dates because
his counsel was associated into this matter on August 18, 2023, and requires
additional time for discovery. Defendant requests a six-month continuance. Based
on the declaration of counsel, as of the filing of this motion in November
2023, Defendant has not received most of Plaintiff’s medical records, including
records pursuant to a subpoena. (Vo Decl. ¶ 3.) No depositions have been
completed. The parties were unable to stipulate to continuing trial, yet no
opposition has been filed for this motion. Defendant’s counsel also states that
its trial counsel has other trials set to begin throughout March and April
2024. 
 
Therefore, considering that another party entered this case in June
2023, discovery still needs to be conducted, counsel is engaged in other trials
during the trial date, and there are no prior continuances, the Court finds
good cause. 
 
Accordingly,
the Court grants the motion to continue trial.
 
CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
 
The Court GRANTS Defendant’s motion to continue trial.
 
The Final Status Conference is continued to September 11, 2024 at
10:00 a.m. in Department 32 of the Spring Street Courthouse.
 
Trial is continued to September 25, 2024 at 8:30 a.m. in Department 32
of the Spring Street Courthouse.
 
All
discovery and pre-trial motion cut-off dates shall be in accordance with the
new trial date.  
 
No further continuance will be granted absent sufficient good cause.
 
Defendant shall give notice of this order, and file a proof of service
of such.
 