 Case Number:  23STCV06764    Hearing Date:   June 25, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


June
  25, 2024




CASE NUMBER:


23STCV06764




MOTIONS:  


Motion
  to Compel the Deposition of Watermark Security Group, Inc.’s Employee,
  Enedino Espinoza 




MOVING PARTY:


Defendant Target Corporation




OPPOSING PARTY:


Specially
  Appearing Related Party Enedino Espinoza 



 
BACKGROUND
 
This
action stems from a stabbing at a Target store. One of the plaintiffs in this
consolidated case, Brayden Medina Molina, a minor, (“Plaintiff”) is one of the
victims who brought this action against Target Corporation, Watermark Security
Group, Inc., Brookfield Properties (USA) LLC, and Does 1 to 50 (“Molina
case”). The assailant was eventually shot and subdued by Enedino Espinoza,
while working as a Watermark Security guard, who has brought a separately
related action (23STCV19129 “Espinoza
case”). 
 
Defendant Target Corporation (“Defendant”) now moves to compel the
deposition of Enedino Espinoza, as an employee of co-defendant Watermark
Security Group, Inc. On June 14, 2024, the Court granted Defendant’s ex parte
application shortening the time for this motion. The opposition was due June
20, 2024, and the reply was due June 24, 2024. (Min. Order, 6/14/24.) 
 
Specially Appearing Related Party Enedino Espinoza (“Espinoza”) has
filed an opposition. Defendant replies. 
 
LEGAL
STANDARD
 
Code of Civil Procedure section
2025.450(a) provides: “If, after service of a deposition notice, a party to the
action or an officer, director, managing agent, or employee of a party, or a
person designated by an organization that is a party under Section 2025.230,
without having served a valid objection under Section 2025.410, fails to appear
for examination, or to proceed with it, or to produce for inspection any
document, electronically stored information, or tangible thing described in the
deposition notice, the party giving the notice may move for an order compelling
the deponent's attendance and testimony, and the production for inspection of
any document, electronically stored information, or tangible thing described in
the deposition notice.”¿ Section 2025.450 requires the Court to compel the
deposition unless it finds a valid objection was served under section
2025.410.¿ 
¿ 
A motion brought to compel a
deposition “shall be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration under Section
2016.040, or, when the deponent fails to attend the deposition … by a
declaration stating that the petitioner has contacted the deponent to inquire
about the nonappearance.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.450, subd. (b)(2).)¿¿ 
¿¿ 
If a motion to compel deposition
is granted, sanctions are mandatory in favor of the party who noticed the
deposition and against the deponent or the party with whom the deponent is
affiliated, unless the court finds that the one subject to the sanction acted
with substantial justification or that other circumstances make the imposition
of the sanction unjust. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.450, subd. (g)(1).)¿ 
 
MEET
AND CONFER
 
The Declaration of Jessica Farley does not set forth facts describing
a meet and confer effort to schedule Espinoza’s deposition, but attaches an
email correspondence from June 3, 2024. (Farley Decl., Exh. 3.)[1] 
 
JUDICIAL
NOTICE
 
Pursuant to the request of Espinoza, the Court takes judicial notice
of Watermark’s motion for summary judgment filed June 17, 2024, Index of
Exhibits in Support, and Notice of Lodging Electronic Media in Support. The
Court takes judicial notice of the existence of these documents in its record,
but not the truth asserted within. (Evid. Code § 452(d).)
 
DISCUSSION
 
Here, Defendant argues that it
noticed Espinoza’s deposition to Watermark Security Group, Inc. (“Watermark”)
on May 16, 2024, set for May 29, 2024. (Farley Decl. ¶ 3, Exh. 1.) Defendant
contends Espinoza is still employed by Watermark and thus, subject to section
2025.450. (Id. ¶ 9.) Watermark did not object to the deposition, but
Espinoza’s counsel in the Espinoza case served a notice of objection on May
23, 2024. Espinoza objected on the basis that service was defective because Espinoza’s
defense counsel in the Molina case was not served. (Id., Exh. 2.)
Espinoza also objected that that counsel was not available at the unilaterally
set date and had not signed the stipulated Protective Order in the Molina case.
(Id.) Espinoza further objected that the notice is vague in that it “appears
to be noticing the deposition of Espinoza as a Plaintiff in his case…” (Id.)
Counsel further objected that counsel was unavailable. (Id.)
 
 Defendant contends that it has since attempted
to schedule Espinoza’s deposition and that all the defendants agreed to depose
Espinoza on a single date. On May 31, 2024, Espinoza’s deposition counsel
provided two possible dates: June 7 and June 10. (Farley Decl., Exh. 3.)
Espinoza’s plaintiff’s counsel did not confirm the dates and has not provided
alternative dates. (Id. ¶ 6.) In opposition, Espinoza’s counsel admits
that on June 7, 2024, she informed Defendant that she was off work that date,
and likely off on June 10 due to a medical procedure. (Opp., 7; Rand-Lewis
Decl. ¶ 34.) 
 
Espinoza also argues he is an
“unnamed defendant” of Plaintiff, is separately represented, and thus Defendant
was required to subpoena Espinoza or reach an agreement with his counsel
Weinberger. Also pursuant to stipulation of the parties reached on March 25,
2024, the deposition of Espinoza will cover all the related cases in this
matter. Therefore, Espinoza’s plaintiff’s counsel needed to be served the notice.
(Rand-Lewis Decl. ¶ 14, Exh. B.) Espinoza argues that Defendant was aware in
March 2024 that he was being represented by separate counsel for this
deposition, yet only served the notice of deposition on Watermark on May 16,
2024. (Id. ¶ 2.)  
 
In reply, Defendant argues section
2025.280 requires Espinoza to appear whether he has independent counsel or not.
(Code Civ. Proc. § 2025.280(a) [“The service of a deposition notice under
Section 2025.240 is effective to require any deponent who is a party to the
action or an officer, director, managing agent, or employee of a party to
attend and to testify, as well as to produce any document, electronically
stored information, or tangible thing for inspection and copying.”].) In Lopez
v. Watchtower Bible & Tract Society of New York, Inc. (2016) 246
Cal.App.4th 566, 603, the court reviewed Code of Civil Procedure section
2025.280 and explained that “[i]f the deponent is the party’s employee,
officer, or director, an entity has substantial practical control to compel the
attendance of these individuals, including the ability to terminate an employee
who refuses to appear at a noticed deposition or to end the relationship with
its officer or director.”
 
Here, Espinoza does not dispute
that he is currently an employee of Watermark. A deposition notice to Watermark
was sufficient under the plain language of section 2025.280 to compel his
attendance. Whether or not Espinoza has independent, conflict counsel to assist
him for the substance of the deposition, does not change his status as an
employee for purposes of section 2025.280. Moreover, conflict counsel provided
alternative dates for the deposition in June, and Espinoza still failed to schedule
the deposition. Neither conflict counsel nor Watermark has objected to the
deposition.
 
To the extent that Espinoza objects
to topics relating to him as a “plaintiff” as opposed to an “employee,” this
issue is not presently before the Court as Espinoza has never been deposed.
However, the Court notes that Espinoza has not provided any authority for the
argument that only one deposition may be permitted, even though there are two
separate (albeit related) cases pending. The Court had previously encouraged
the parties to attempt to complete the deposition in one 7-hour session[2] to
avoid any further motion practice regarding the scope of a second deposition. Any
stipulation reached by the defendants to narrow the issues in a possible second
deposition benefits Espinoza, and Espinoza’s position here risks multiple
depositions of himself.[3] If
the parties cannot agree, then the Court will hear any necessary further motion
about a second deposition at the appropriate time. 
 
Espinoza also appears to object on
the basis that he is entitled to depose Defendant’s witnesses first because he
has been waiting six months. Code of Civil Procedure section 2019.020 “sets out
the general rule that the various tools of discovery may be used by each party
in any order, and one party’s discovery ‘shall not operate to delay the
discovery of any other party.’ … However, if a party shows ‘good cause,’ the
trial court ‘may establish the sequence and timing of discovery for the convenience
of parties and witnesses and in the interests of justice.’” (Williams v.
Superior Court (2017) 3 Cal.5th 531, 550-51 [also noting that the moving
party did not file a section 2019.020 motion].) Here, Defendant seeks to depose
Espinoza as it relates to a trial preference case. Accordingly, and although
Espinoza did not file a motion pursuant to section 2019.020 but rather raised
the objection in an opposition, the Court considers the convenience of the
parties and witnesses and the interests of justice, and concludes that a prompt
deposition of Espinoza is warranted.
 
            Accordingly,
the Court grants the motion to compel.
 
CONCLUSION AND
ORDER
 
Accordingly, the motion to compel the
Deposition of Watermark Security Group, Inc.’s Employee, Enedino Espinoza is GRANTED.
Espinoza shall appear for deposition within 5 days.
 
            Defendant shall give notice of the
Court’s ruling and file a proof of service.


