 Case Number:  22STCV18610    Hearing Date:   June 25, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are encouraged to meet and confer
concerning this tentative ruling to determine if a resolution may be
reached.  If the parties are unable to
reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this tentative ruling, the
party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to
submit.  The email shall include the case
number, date and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if
applicable), and the identity of the party submitting on this tentative
ruling.  If the Court does not receive an
email indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there
are no appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar
or adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court. 

 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


June
  25, 2024




CASE NUMBER:


22STCV18610




MOTIONS:  


(1)  
  Compel Further Responses to Requests for Production
  Set One
(2)  
  Compel Further Responses to Special Interrogatories,
  Set One
(3)  
  Compel Further Responses to Requests for Admissions,
  Set One
(4)  
  Compel Further Responses to Form Interrogatories, Set
  One




MOVING PARTY:


Plaintiff
  Azad Sipilian




OPPOSING PARTY:


Defendant
  Margo Elizabeth Stilley 



 
 
BACKGROUND
 
On
June 7, 2022, Plaintiff Azad Sipilian (“Plaintiff”) filed a complaint against
Defendants Margo Elizabeth Stilley (“Defendant”) and Does 1 to 30 for negligence
related to a motor vehicle accident. Trial was originally set for December 5,
2023.  
 
On August
30, 2023, Plaintiff propounded initial sets of discovery on Defendant. (Nielsen
Decl. ¶ 6.) On October 16, 2023, Defendant provided responses that Plaintiff
argued were incomplete. (Id. ¶ 7.) Defendant granted multiple extensions
for Plaintiff to file a motion to compel further. (Id. ¶ 9, 12.) On
March 6, 2024, Defendant provided supplemental responses that Plaintiff argued
were deficient. (Id. ¶ 16.) 
 
As a
result, on March 21, 2024, Plaintiff filed four motions to compel further
responses to Request for Production, Special Interrogatories, Set One, Requests
for Admissions, Set One, and Form Interrogatories, Set One. Plaintiff also
seeks monetary sanctions against Defendant and counsel. Defendant opposes. 
 
On May 8,
2024, the Court granted Plaintiff’s motion to reopen discovery for the limited
purpose of hearing the instant motions to compel further. (Min. Order, 5/8/24.)
The hearings were continued to the instant date to allow for a scheduled
informal discovery conference (“IDC”) on June 12, 2024. 
 
At the June 12, 2024 IDC, the Court ordered the parties to meet and
confer and craft a joint discovery report regarding the issues pending, which
was due June 25, 2024. 
 
On June 18, 2024, the parties submitted the joint discovery statement
paring down the remaining issues to the following: 
 
1.
Requests for Production, number 10.
2.
Special Interrogatories numbers 10, 11, 13, 19, 20, 22-29, 31, 32, and 34.
3.
Request for Admission numbers 11-15, and 17.
4.
Form Interrogatories, number 17.1.
 
 
MEET
AND CONFER
 
As described above, on June 12, 2024, the parties appeared for an IDC
pursuant to the Court’s Eighth Amended Standing Order. As a result, the IDC
requirement is met. 
 
ANALYSIS
 
I. Compel
Further Responses to Request for Production 
 
According
to the joint discovery statement, Plaintiff moves to compel further responses
to Request for Production, Set One number 10. 
 
            A. Legal Standard
 
Code of Civil Procedure section 2031.310(a) provides that
on receipt of a response to a request for production of documents, the
demanding party may move for an order compelling further responses if:¿ 
¿ 
(1) A statement of compliance with the demand is
incomplete.¿ 
(2) A representation of inability to comply is inadequate,
incomplete, or evasive.¿ 
(3) An objection in the response is without merit or too
general.¿¿ 
 
A response
consisting of an objection must specify with particularly the document being
objected to, and, if based on privilege, must provide sufficient factual
information for other parties to evaluate the merits of this claim, including
if necessary, a privilege log. (Code Civ. Proc. § 2031.240 (b), (c).) 
¿ 
The motion must set forth specific facts showing good cause
for the discovery and include a meet and confer declaration. (Code Civ. Proc. §
2031.310(b).) 
 
“Unless notice of this motion is given within 45 days of
the service of the verified response, or any supplemental verified response, or
on or before any specific later date to which the demanding party and the
responding party have agreed in writing, the demanding party waives any right
to compel a further response to the demand.”¿ (Code Civ. Proc., §
2031.310(c).)¿¿¿ 
 
The court shall impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7
(commencing with Section 2023.010) against any party, person, or attorney who
unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel further response to a
demand, unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with
substantial justification or that other circumstances make the imposition of
the sanction unjust. (Code Civ. Proc. § 2031.310 (h).) 
 
B. Discussion
 
Request for Production, Set One, number 10 asks the following:
“Produce all Documents that constitute, evidence, or Relate to any
formal or informal Communication between Your insurer and any Person, other
than Your attorney, that Relate to any invoice, estimate, bid, proposal, or
other request for payment or authorization Relating to any repair of
Plaintiff’s Vehicle subsequent to the Incident.” 
 
Defendant responded with various objections, including based
on attorney client privilege and work product, and stated: “Responding
party states that a diligent search and a reasonable inquiry in an effort to
locate the items requested has been made and responding party will comply with
the production, inspection, copying, testing, sampling, and related activity
demanded, in whole, and all documents or things in the demanded category that
are in responding party’s possession, custody and control and to which no
objection is being made, will be included in the production as follows: Exhibit
D – One hundred and eleven (111) color photographs/digital images depicting
responding party’s vehicle. Exhibit E – Plaintiff’s vehicle damage repair
estimate.” 
 
In
the joint statement, Plaintiff states he has limited the scope of this request
to: “1) the initial repair estimate provided to State Farm by the body shop,
any supplements or revisions thereto, and communication related to same; and 2)
email and other correspondence from the body shop to State Farm and any replies
thereto.” Plaintiff contends that Defendant produced emails from State Farm to
the body shop and State Farm’s repair estimates, but not correspondence from
the body shop. Plaintiff asserts the documents exist due to Defendant’s
response in Form Interrogatory 17.1. 
 
Defendant
argues it produced communications between State Farm and the body shop, and is
not in possession, custody or control of additional documents. To the extent
that Defendant is in possession, custody, or control of documents sent by the
body shop to State Farm, whether or not Plaintiff can separately subpoena the
body shop is not a proper objection. However, Defendant argues she issued a
deposition subpoena for Beverly La Brea Auto Body, requesting documents, but
none were provided. 
 
In
light of the above and considering that Defendant’s responses state that a
diligent search was made, the documents are not in Defendant’s possession or
control, the motion to compel further responses to Request for Production
number 10 is denied. (See Code Civ. Proc. § 2031.230.) 
 
The
Court declines to award sanctions finding that Plaintiff acted with substantial
justification. 
 
 
II. Compel
Further Response to Special Interrogatories
 
            A.
Legal Standard
 
Code of Civil Procedure section 2030.300(a) provides that
“on receipt of a response to interrogatories, the propounding party may move
for an order compelling a further response if the propounding party deems that
any of the following apply:¿ 
¿ 
(1) An answer to a particular interrogatory is evasive or
incomplete.¿ 
(2) An
exercise of the option to produce documents under Section 2030.230 is
unwarranted or the required specification of those documents is inadequate.¿ 
(3) An objection to an interrogatory is without merit or
too general.”¿ 
 
The motion must be accompanied by a meet and confer
declaration. (Code Civ. Proc. § 2030.300(b)(1).) “Unless notice of this motion
is given within 45 days of the service of the verified response, or any
supplemental verified response, or on or before any specific later date to
which the propounding party and the responding party have agreed in writing,
the propounding party waives any right to compel a further response to the
interrogatories.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 2030.300(c).)¿¿ 
¿ 
“The court shall impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7
(commencing with Section 2023.010) against any party, person, or attorney who
unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel a further response to
interrogatories, unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction acted
with substantial justification or that other circumstances make the imposition
of the sanction unjust.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 2030.300(d).)¿¿¿
 
B.
Discussion
 
According
to the joint discovery statement, Plaintiff moves to compel further responses
to Special Interrogatories, Set One numbers 10, 11, 13, 19, 20, 22-29, 31, 32,
and 34.
 
Number
10 asks Defendant to state the amount of damages she “believe[s]” that
Plaintiff incurred as a result of the loss of use of Plaintiff’s vehicle. Number
11 asks for facts in support of that value. Number 13 asks to
identify documents in support of the value. 
 
Defendant
asserted various objections, including based on attorney client privilege and
work product. Defendant also responded that after reasonable inquiry, she lacks
personal knowledge of the subject matter. 
 
The
interrogatory as phrased appears to request Defendant to state information as
to her personal knowledge, not her legal theory or contention. (See, e.g., Sabetian
v. Exxon Mobil Corp. (2020), 57 Cal.App.5th 1054, 1086 [distinguishing
between questions that called for personal knowledge and contention
questions].) Accordingly, since Defendant asserted that she lacks personal
knowledge of the amount of damages Plaintiff incurred, the response is sufficient.
(Code Civ. Proc. § 2030.220(c) [“If the responding party does not have personal
knowledge sufficient to respond fully to an interrogatory, that party shall so
state, but shall make a reasonable and good faith effort to obtain the
information by inquiry to other natural persons or organizations, except where
the information is equally available to the propounding party.”.] 
 
Number
19 asks to describe in detail all actions “you took” with respect to repair
damages to Plaintiff’s vehicle. Defendant responded “none as to this responding
party.”
 
Here,
Defendant is the only named defendant in this action; State Farm is not a named
defendant but is apparently defending the action under the terms of the
insurance policy. Although documents may be said to be in the possession,
custody, or control of the defendant that is in the insurance company’s
possession, custody, or control (see Clark v. Superior Court (1960) 177
Cal.App.2d 577, 579 [“In such a situation the attorneys for the insurance
company must be treated as the defendants’ attorneys and any material which is
in their possession, custody or control solely because of this relationship is
also in the possession, custody or control of the defendants…”].), that does
not necessarily mean that all actions taken by the insurance company are actions
either taken by or known about by the insured. Again, this interrogatory as
phrased appears to request Defendant to state information as to her personal
knowledge, not her legal theory or contention.
 
Similarly,
because the following seek communications between Defendant or State Farm and
the body shop (non-parties to this action), and Plaintiff has responded that
she lacks personal knowledge, the Court denies the motion for further responses
to numbers 20, 22-25, and 26-29. 
 
Numbers
31, 32, and 34 relate to the amount of damages Defendant “believe[s]” that
Plaintiff incurred for repairing his vehicle. Defendant responded with
objections and that after a reasonable inquiry, she lacks personal knowledge.
Therefore, the responses are sufficient. 
 
As
a result, the motion to compel further responses to special interrogatories is
denied. 
 
The
Court declines to award sanctions finding that Plaintiff acted with substantial
justification. 
 
III. Compel
Further Responses to Request for Admissions
 
            A. Legal Standard
 
Code of Civil Procedure section 2033.290(a) provides that
on receipt of a response to requests for admissions, the party requesting
admissions may move for an order compelling a further response if that party
deems that either or both of the following apply:¿ 
¿ 
(1) An answer to a particular request is evasive or
incomplete.¿ 
(2) An objection to a particular request is without merit
or too general.¿ 
 
If a party fails to serve a timely response, they waive any
objection to the requests, including one based on privilege or on the
protection for work product under Chapter 4 (commencing with Section 2018.010).
The court, on motion, may relieve that party from this waiver. (Code Civ. Proc.
§ 2033.280(a).)  
 
The court shall impose a monetary sanction against any
party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to
compel further response, unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction
acted with substantial justification or that other circumstances make the
imposition of the sanction unjust. (Code Civ. Proc. § 2033.290(d).)  
 
            B. Discussion
 
Plaintiff
seeks to compel further responses to Request for Admission, Set One, numbers
11-15, and 17.
 
Request
numbers 11–14 seek admissions that Defendant, or her agent or
representative, on various dates, refused to repair Plaintiff’s vehicle unless
he signed a release of liability.
            
            Plaintiff argues that these requests
establish “Defendant’s own estimate of Plaintiff’s recoverable repair costs, as
well as the timeline of Defendant’s back-and-forth haggling with the body shop,
which was the cause of a significant portion of the loss of use period.” The
RFAs in question do not relate to this, but rather seek to establish that State
Farm refused to repair. Plaintiff has not established that this is a proper
subject of this lawsuit, where State Farm is not a party. (See, e.g., Moradi-Shalal
v. Fireman’s Fund Insurance Companies (1988) 46 Cal.3d 287.) Accordingly,
the motion to compel further is denied.
 
Request
15 seeks an admission that Defendant, or her agent or representative have
not paid to repair Plaintiff’s vehicle. Defendant has stated that she will
provide an amended response.
 
Request
17 seeks an admission that Defendant, or her agent or representative
refused Plaintiff’s request to disburse any undisputed repair costs. Defendant
has stated that she will provide an amended response.
 
            The Court declines to award
sanctions, finding that both parties acted with substantial justification.
 
IV. Form
Interrogatories
 
Plaintiff
seeks further responses to Form Interrogatories, number 17.1 which requests
facts, contact information of people with knowledge and identifying supporting
documents, that support responses that are not an unqualified admission. Plaintiff
argues Defendant did not provide responses to Request for Admissions numbers
2–7 and 19. Plaintiff further argues that Defendant must complete 17.1 for
admissions that contained only objections (numbers 11–18 and 20–22).
 
Defendant
represents she will provide supplemental responses for admission numbers 2–7,
15, 17, and 19. 
 
Because
Defendant asserts she will provide supplemental responses, the Court finds this
motion is moot. Therefore, the motion to compel further is denied. The Court
declines to award monetary sanctions. 
 
 
CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
 
Therefore, the Court DENIES Plaintiff’s motion to compel further
responses to Request for Production, Set One.
 
The Court DENIES Plaintiff’s motion to compel further responses to
Special Interrogatories, Set One. 
 
The Court DENIES Plaintiff’s motion to compel further responses to Requests
for Admissions, Set One.
 
The Court DENIES Plaintiff’s motion to compel further responses to
Form Interrogatories, Set One.
 
Plaintiff
to provide notice and file a proof of service of such. 
 