 Case Number:  22STCV17528    Hearing Date:   June 25, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


June
  25, 2024




CASE NUMBER:


22STCV17528




MOTIONS:  


Petition
  for Expedited Minors Compromise 




MOVING PARTY:


Petitioner Fanny Perez




OPPOSING PARTY:


Unopposed
  



 
 
The Court has reviewed the amended
expedited petition filed June 11, 2024 by Petitioner Fanny Perez (Petitioner)
on behalf of Claimant Ruth Herrera, age 13. The Court denies the petition
without prejudice for the following reasons:
 
The Court noted in the previous petition that item 9 indicated
that Claimant was not fully recovered but the following injuries were
temporary: “a nondisplaced fracture of the sesamoid bone of the left foot,
bruising.” Petitioner indicates orthotics have been prescribed. (Min. Order,
5/9/24.) The Court also noted that Petitioner did not provide any medical
records or other evidence in attachment 9 to support this assertion. 
 
In this revised petition, Petitioner again does not
include any medical record/reports describing Claimant’s current condition.
This must be provided in attachment 9. 
 
Since it appears there are $6,045.64 in total liens, the
value in item 13a(5) should be amended accordingly.  
 
Attachment 13g does not contain statements from all the
medical providers seeking reimbursement. 
 
Petitioner again requests $12,000 in attorney fees which represents
40% of the gross settlement. The Court previously found support for only 33.33%
of the gross settlement, based on the attorney declaration. (Min. Order,
5/9/24.) Here, Petitioner filed the same attorney declaration, but did not
lower the requested amount. Furthermore, no fee agreement was attached. 
 
 
Moving party is ordered to give
notice.
 
 
 
 