  Case Number:  19STCV34550    Hearing Date:   June 7, 2024    Dept:  56  
 
 
SUPERIOR
COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR
THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



HANS H. KIM, an
  individual; AQUA
WETCLEAN LLC, a California Limited Liability
  Company
                        Plaintiffs,
            vs.
 
CUIL INVESTMENTS LLC, a California
Limited Liability Company; JANE’S MANAGEMENT
  SYTSTEMS, LLC, a California Limited Liability Company; MAGIC PROPERTIES,
  INC., a California CORPORATION; XIANG HAO CUI, an individual; DAVID YOO, an
  individual; and DOES 1 through 10 inclusive, 
                                                                             
  
                        Defendants.                               


 


     
  CASE NO.: 19STCV34550
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER RE: 
MOTION TO BE RELIEVED AS COUNSEL
Date: June 7, 2024
Time: 8:30 a.m.
Dept. 56
 
 



 
MOVING PARTY:
David A. Sergenian, Esq. (“Counsel”)
RESPONDING PARTY: None

            The Court has considered the moving
papers
 
BACKGROUND 
On
September 8, 2020, Plaintiffs Hans H. Kim and Aqua Wetclean, LLC (“Plaintiffs”)
filed the operative Second Amended Complaint (“SAC”) against Defendants Cuil
Investments LLC (“Cuil”); Jane’s Management Systems, LLC; Magic Properties,
Inc.; Xiang Hao Cui (“Cui”); John Ko; David Yoo; and DOES 1 through 10
(“Defendants”), inclusive for (1) Breach of Contract; (2) Breach of the
Covenant of Repair; (3) Contractual Abatement of Rent; (4) Fraud and Deceit;
(5) Fraudulent Concealment; (6) Conspiracy to Defraud; (7) Negligent
Misrepresentation; (8) Breach of Fiduciary Duty; (9) Intentional Interference
with Prospective Economic Advantage; and (10) Unfair Business Practices.

On
May 03, 2024, Counsel filed the instant motions to be relieved as counsel for
Defendants Cui and Cuil Investments LLC. No opposition has been filed.
 
DISCUSSION
The court may order that an attorney be
changed or substituted at any time before or after judgment or final
determination upon request by either client or attorney and after notice from
one to the other. (Code Civ. Proc. § 284, subd. (2).) “The determination
whether to grant or deny a motion to withdraw as counsel lies within the sound
discretion of the trial court.” (Manfredi & Levine v. Superior
Court (1998) 66 Cal.App.4th 1128, 1133.) An application to be relieved as
counsel must be made on Judicial Counsel Forms MC-051 (Notice of Motion and
Motion), MC-052 (Declaration), and MC-053 (Proposed Order). (Cal. Rules of
Court, rule 3.1362, subds. (a), (c), (e).) 
 
In addition, California Rules of Court,
rule 3.1362 subsection (d) requires that the notice of motion and motion,
declaration, and proposed order be served on the client and all other parties
who have appeared in the case by personal service, electronic service, or mail.
If the notice is served by mail, it must be accompanied by a declaration
stating facts showing that either: 
(A) The
service address is the current residence or business address of the client; or 
(B) The
service address is the last known residence or business address of the client,
and the attorney has been unable to locate a more current address after making
reasonable efforts to do so within 30 days before the filing of the motion to
be relieved. 
(Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1362, subd. (1)(A) & (2).)  
 
Under Code of Civil Procedure section
1014, “A defendant appears in an action when the defendant answers, demurs,
files a notice of motion to strike, files a notice of motion to transfer
pursuant to Section 396(b), moves for reclassification pursuant to Section
403.040, gives the plaintiff written notice of appearance, or when an attorney
gives notice of appearance for the defendant. After appearance, a defendant or
the defendant's attorney is entitled to notice of all subsequent proceedings of
which notice is required to be given. Where a defendant has not appeared,
service of notice or papers need not be made upon the defendant.”
 
Analysis
As a preliminary matter, the Court notes
that Counsel has filed two separate motions to be relieved as Counsel for both
Defendants Cui and Cuil. For efficiency, the Court reviews both
motions below. 
 
On May 3, 2024, Counsel moved for the Court to relieve him as
counsel of record for Defendants Cui and Cuil. (Mot. (MC-051).) Counsel properly filed a Notice of
Motions and Motions (MC-051). Counsel also filed a Declaration in Support of
the Motions (MC-052) stating that:
There
has been a breakdown of the working relationship with the client. The specific
facts that give rise to this motion are confidential and required to be kept
confidential pursuant to Business and Professions Code § 6068 (e), rule 3-100
(A) of the California Rules of Professional Conduct, and by the attorney-client
privilege parentheses evidence code § 950, et seq.). In the event the Court
desires further information to ascertain the good faith basis for this motion
for withdrawal, it is respectfully requested that the court hold an in-camera
hearing outside the presence of all other parties so that the specific facts
demonstrating good cause for this withdrawal may be demonstrated to the court. Manfredi
& Levine v. Superior Court, 66 (1998) Cal.App.4th 1128, 1136-1137
 
(MC-052, ¶
2.) On his Form MC-052, Counsel indicates that he has served Cui
and Cuil by mailing copies of the motion papers to
each of their last known addresses. (MC-052 ¶ 3a(2).) Counsel avers that the
addresses provided are the current addresses of both Cui and Cuil, which were
confirmed within the last 30 days by telephone. (MC-052 ¶ 3b(1)(c).)
 
Counsel also provides the Court with a Proposed Order, Form
MC-053, which further includes Proof of Service indicating that all parties
have been served with the Notice, Motion, Declaration and Order. (MC-053.)
 
Here, the Court finds that all procedural requirements have been
satisfied and that there is no indication that withdrawal would cause injustice
or undue delay in the proceedings at this stage in the litigation.
CONCLUSION 
David A. Sergenian
Esq.’s Motions to be relieved as Counsel for Defendants Xiang Hao Cui and Cuil
Investments LLC are GRANTED. Nevertheless, because Cuil Investments, LLC is a
limited liability company and not an individual, it cannot represent
itself.  The Court therefore sets an OSC
re Representation for July 31, 2024 at 8:30 am, at which time Cuil Investments,
LLC must appear by its new counsel, unless it has already filed a notice of its
new representation.
 
Counsel
is ordered to give notice of this ruling.         
 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at SMC_DEPT56@lacourt.org as directed
by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department does not receive an email
and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion will be placed off
calendar.
Dated this 7th day of June 2024
 




 


 




 


Hon. Holly J.
  Fujie
Judge of the
  Superior Court
 




 