 Case Number:  23STCV30816    Hearing Date:   June 7, 2024    Dept:  56  
 
 
SUPERIOR
COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR
THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



 NANCY MALLCO GAVILAN, 
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
 
FAM, LLC; FAMBRANDS, LLC;
and DOES 1 THROUGH 20 INCLUSIVE, 
                                                                             
  
                        Defendants.                               


 


     
  CASE NO.: 23STCV30816
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER RE: 
MOTION TO COMPEL ARBITRATION
Date: June 7, 2024
Time: 8:30 a.m.
Dept. 56
 
 



 
MOVING PARTY: Defendants
FAM, LLC and FAMBRANDS, LLC
RESPONDING PARTY: Plaintiff,
Nancy Mallco Gavilan
 
            The Court has considered the moving,
opposition and reply papers. 
 
BACKGROUND 
This
is an action for wrongful termination against a former employer. On December 18,
2023, Plaintiff Nancy Mallco Gavilan (“Plaintiff”) filed a complaint (the
“Complaint”) against Defendants FAM, LLC, a California limited liability
company and FAMBRANDS, LLC, a California limited liability company (jointly
“Defendants”) alleging the following: violations under Government Code §§12940
et seq (1) discrimination; (2) retaliation; (3) failure to prevent
discrimination and retaliation; (4) failure to provide reasonable
accommodations; (5) failure to engage in a good faith interactive process; and (6)
wrongful termination in violation of public policy and (7) failure to permit
inspection of personnel and payroll records under the California Labor Code. Plaintiff
requests relief in the form of declaratory judgment and demands over $25,000
and a jury trial.
 
            On February 19, 2024, Defendants
filed the instant Motion to Compel Arbitration (the “Motion”).  On May 28, 2024, Plaintiff filed opposition
papers to the Motion and on May 31, 2024, Defendants filed a reply. 
 
EVIDENTIARY
MOTIONS
Plaintiff’s
evidentiary objections to the Declaration of Kasey Konkright Nos. 1-10 are
overruled.
 
DISCUSSION
Defendants
specially appear and pray for an order compelling Plaintiff to submit to
binding arbitration pursuant to the parties' written contract which expressly
provides that all complaints or disputes between the parties are to be
arbitrated.
 
California
law incorporates many of the basic policy objectives contained in the Federal
Arbitration Act, including a presumption in favor of arbitrability. (Engalla
v. Permanente Medical Group, Inc. (1997) 15 Cal.4th 951, 971-72.) Under
Code of Civil Procedure section 1281, a “written agreement to submit to
arbitration an existing controversy or a controversy thereafter arising is
valid, enforceable and irrevocable, save upon such grounds as exist for the
revocation of any contract.” 
“On
petition of a party to an arbitration agreement alleging the existence of a
written agreement to arbitrate a controversy and that a party thereto refuses
to arbitrate such controversy, the court shall order the petitioner and the
respondent to arbitrate the controversy if it determines that an agreement to
arbitrate the controversy exists, unless it determines that:
(a)
The right to compel arbitration has been waived by the petitioner; or
(b)
Grounds exist for the revocation of the agreement.
(c)
A party to the arbitration agreement is also a party to a pending court action
or special proceeding with a third party, arising out of the same transaction
or series of related transactions and there is a possibility of conflicting
rulings on a common issue of law or fact. . . .”  (CCP §1281.2.)
 
The
right to arbitration depends upon contract; a petition to compel arbitration is
simply a suit in equity seeking specific performance of that contract.  (Marcus & Millichap Real Estate Inv.
Brokerage Co. v. Hock Inv. Co. (1998) 68 Cal.App.4th 83, 88.)  When presented with a petition to compel
arbitration, the trial court's first task is to determine whether the parties
have in fact agreed to arbitrate the dispute. 
(Id.)  
 
“Rosenthal
v. Great Western Fin. Securities Corp. (1996) 14 Cal.4th 394 explained:
‘[W]hen a petition to compel arbitration is filed and accompanied by prima
facie evidence of a written agreement to arbitrate the controversy, the court
itself must determine whether the agreement exists and, if any defense to its
enforcement is raised, whether it is enforceable.  Because the existence of the agreement is a
statutory prerequisite to granting the petition, the petitioner bears the
burden of proving its existence by a preponderance of the evidence.  If the party opposing the petition raises a
defense to enforcement—either fraud in the execution voiding the agreement, or
a statutory defense of waiver or revocation (see §1281.2(a), (b))—that party
bears the burden of producing evidence of, and proving by a preponderance of
the evidence, any fact necessary to the defense.’ (Rosenthal, supra,
at 413.)  According to Rosenthal,
facts relevant to enforcement of the arbitration agreement must be determined
‘in the manner . . . provided by law for the . . . hearing of motions.’ (Rosenthal,
supra, at 413, quoting §1290.2.) 
This ‘ordinarily mean[s] the facts are to be proven by affidavit or
declaration and documentary evidence, with oral testimony taken only in the
court’s discretion.’ (Rosenthal, supra, at 413–414; . . .).”  (Hotels Nevada v. L.A. Pacific Center, Inc.
(2006) 144 Cal.App.4th 754, 761-62.)
 
Existence of an
Agreement to Arbitrate
Under
both the Federal Arbitration Act and California law, arbitration agreements are
valid, irrevocable, and enforceable, except on such grounds that exist at law
or equity for voiding a contract.  (Winter
v. Window Fashions Professions, Inc. (2008) 166 Cal.App.4th 943,
947.)  In ruling on a motion to compel
arbitration, the court must first determine whether the parties actually agreed
to arbitrate the dispute, and general principles of California contract law
help guide the court in making this determination.  (Mendez v. Mid-Wilshire Health Care Center
(2013) 220 Cal.App.4th 534, 541.)  “With
respect to the moving party’s burden to provide evidence of the existence of an
agreement to arbitrate, it is generally sufficient for that party to present a
copy of the contract to the court.”  (Baker
v. Italian Maple Holdings, LLC (2017) 13 Cal.App.5th 1152, 1160.)
 
Defendants
provide the parties’ Arbitration Policy Statement and Agreement (“Agreement”)
which states that: 
 
My signature herein acknowledges that I understand the
above Arbitration Policy and agree to abide by its terms. . . Furthermore, I
also agree, in accordance with the Company’s Arbitration Policy, I shall submit
any dispute, including but not limited to, termination of my employment, which
arise or are related to my employment with the Company, to binding arbitration
within a period of one (1) year as of the date the dispute arose. I agree that
arbitration shall be the sole way to resolve all disputes arising from my employment
with the Company or which are related to my employment or its termination."

(Declaration of Kasey Konkright; Exh.
A; p.2; translated at Exh. B p. 2.). 
Mr. Konkright, Defendants’ Director
of Talent from November 7, 2017 to December 31, 2019 and its Head of Talent and
Human Resources from January, 2020 to the present, states that as part of
Plaintiff’s employment as a warehouse associate, Plaintiff entered into the
Agreement on March 1, 2017. (Konkright Decl. ¶¶ 4, 7.) Because Mr. Konkright
was not hired until November 1, 2017, Plaintiff was onboarded by HR professional,
Maxbell Galindo, who speaks English and Spanish, who presented the form to
Plaintiff during a customary 1-hour onboarding session for new hires in which
they are encouraged to ask questions and have 48 hours to return the signed
agreements. (Id. ¶ 8.) Mr. Konkright identified Plaintiff’s signature on
the Agreement through a comparison of Plaintiff's securely maintained personnel
files. (Id. ¶ 9.) Plaintiff does not recall reading the Agreement and asserts
that no one ever reviewed or discussed the Agreement’s provisions with her
during a 20-minute onboarding meeting in Maxbell Galindo’s office. (Declaration
of Nancy Mallco Gavilan ¶¶ 5-6.) Plaintiff contends that Mr. Konkright’s
declaration is founded on inadmissible hearsay because it lacks personal
knowledge at the time of Plaintiff’s hiring and refers to general hiring
practices observed by Mr. Konkright months after Plaintiff’s onboarding was
complete. (Opp’n., p. 5.) Nonetheless, Plaintiff does not contest that the signature
on the Agreement belongs to her. (Gavilan Decl., ¶ 5.) Therefore, the Court
finds that there exists an agreement to arbitrate. 
 
Here, the Agreement states that any
dispute concerning labor shall be resolved by binding arbitration. As pleaded
in the Complaint, the dispute arises from the Defendants’ alleged failure to accommodate
Plaintiff’s work restrictions and alleged retaliatory termination of
Plaintiff’s employment as an order-picker and packager at Defendants’ clothing
and fashion item warehouse. (Compl., ¶¶ 18-25.)
 
In fact, the Defendants correctly
point out that Plaintiff’s opposition specifically calls out the Agreement as a
condition of employment with Defendants. (Gavilan Decl., ¶4.) Plaintiff’s
contentions around the vagueness and application of the Agreement are
unpersuasive as the Agreement specifies that it applies to labor disputes.
Thus, the Court finds the dispute subject to the Agreement.
 
Unconscionability
In opposition, Plaintiff
argues that the Agreement is unenforceable on unconscionability grounds.
 
“Unconscionability” is one
of the principal defenses to a request for arbitration. It is a generally
applicable contract defense under California law (Civ. Code, § 1670.5). Two
elements must be shown: (1) “procedural” unconscionability and (2)
“substantive” unconscionability. (Armendariz v. Foundation Health Psychcare
Services, Inc. (2000) 24 C4th 83, 113-115.) The issue is reviewed in the context of when the
contract was signed. (Bakersfield College v. California Comm. College
Athletic Ass'n (2019) 41 CA5th 753, 762.) “The procedural element of
unconscionability focuses on whether the contract is one of adhesion.
Procedural unconscionability focuses on whether there is “oppression” arising
from an inequality of bargaining power or “surprise” arising from buried terms in
a complex printed form. The substantive element addresses the existence of
overly harsh or one-sided terms. An agreement to arbitrate is unenforceable
only if both the procedural and substantive elements are satisfied. However…the
more substantively oppressive the contract term, the less evidence of
procedural unconscionability is required to come to the conclusion that the
term is unenforceable, and vice versa.” (McManus v. CIBC World Markets Corp.
(2003) 109 Cal.App.4th 76, 87.) (internal quotations and citations omitted).
 
a.    
Procedural Unconscionability 
Procedural
unconscionability focuses on the elements of oppression and surprise. (Roman
v. Superior Court (2009) 172 Cal.App.4th 1462, 1469.) ‘Oppression’ arises
from an inequality of bargaining power which results in no real negotiation and
an absence of meaningful choice … ‘Surprise’ involves the extent to which the
terms of the bargain are hidden in a ‘prolix printed form’ drafted by a party
in a superior bargaining position.’ (Roman, p. 1469.) Arbitration
contracts imposed as a condition of employment are typically adhesive. (Armendariz,
pp. 114-115.)
 
Plaintiff
argues that the Agreement is procedurally unconscionable to a high degree because
Plaintiff was required to consent to arbitration as a “take it or leave it”
condition of employment, thereby making the signed Agreement an unenforceable and
procedurally unconscionable adhesion contract. (Opp’n p. 7; McManus, p. 101.)
Plaintiff addresses the plain language of the Agreement which states “By simply
accepting or continuing your employment with Defendants, you automatically
agree that arbitration is the exclusive remedy.” (Opp’n p. 8; Konkright
Decl., Exh. B, emphasis added.) Moreover, Plaintiff asserts that the terms of
the Agreement were never explained to Plaintiff, and the Agreement required her
to “go to another source to learn the full ramifications of the arbitration
agreement and rules of the forum.” (Opp’n p.8; Fitz v. NCR Corp.
(2004) 118 Cal.App.4th 702, 721.) 
Plaintiff
does not submit evidence suggesting she did not actually have time to review
the documents, ask questions about the documents, or actually read the
documents.  Plaintiff submits no evidence
that the agreement was provided on a “take it or leave it basis.” (Opp’n p. 8.)
On the other hand, Defendants argue that they avoided unconscionable procedures
by providing the one-page Agreement in Spanish with 48 hours to review and ask
questions to the HR professional. (Reply, p .5.) 
 
The
circumstances surrounding Plaintiff’s signing the Agreement present low
procedural unconscionability because despite Plaintiff’s claims that no one
reviewed the Agreement with her, told her the terms were negotiable, or that
opting out was an option, this does not demonstrate procedural
unconscionability. (See Sanchez v. Valencia Holding Co. (2015) LLC, 61
Cal.4th 899, 914 [(“Valencia was under no obligation to highlight
the arbitration clause of its contract, nor was it required to specifically
call that clause to Sanchez’s attention. Any state law imposing such an
obligation would be preempted by the FAA.”].) The Agreement cannot be held to
be a contract of adhesion because Plaintiff was able to reject the Agreement
and could have bargained for terms of her choice if she so desired. The Court
finds there is no procedural unconscionability.  
 
b.    
Substantive
Unconscionability 
Plaintiff
argues that the Agreement is substantively unconscionable because it: (1) provides
for arbitration to be administered by the American Arbitration Association
(“AAA”), allowing only Defendants to ask the AAA to appoint an arbitrator
thereby limiting the Plaintiff’s ability to select a neutral arbitrator; (2) fails
to discuss the available forms of relief in arbitration, (3) it does not
provide for adequate discovery, adequate judicial review, or a written
arbitration award, (4) it impermissibly shifts cost to Plaintiff, and (5) limits
the three year statute of limitations for Fair Employment and Housing Act
(“FEHA”) claims to (1) year as to the date of termination, or (1) year as if
the alleged incident(s) for termination disputes asserting discrimination, as
seen in the instant action. (Opp’n. pp. 9-10; Konkright Decl., Exh. B.) 
 
In
reply, Defendants cite the AAA Employment Rules as authority for the
requirements that Plaintiff alleges are silent in the agreement. (Reply, p. 6.)
Armendariz requires an arbitration agreement to meet certain minimum
requirements, including the provision of adequate discovery. (Armendariz
at 90, 104-106.) In Armendariz, the court stated that the parties were
entitled to discovery sufficient to vindicate their claims. (Armendariz,
supra, 24 Cal.4th p. 106.) The court also acknowledged that discovery
limitations are an integral and permissible part of the arbitration process. (Id.)
‘‘[A]dequate’’ discovery does not mean ‘unfettered’ discovery. (Id. pp.
105-106.) Armendariz specifically recognized that parties may agree to
something less than the full panoply of discovery permitted under the
California Arbitration Act, C.C.P §1283.05. (Id.) Therefore, the Court
finds there is no substantive unconscionability. 
 
The Court further finds that a stay of the action is appropriate in this
case once the motion is granted, as Code of Civil Procedure § 1281.4 stipulates
that the Court shall stay the action until arbitration is completed. (Code Civ.
Proc., § 1281.4.) Therefore, the Court GRANTS the Defendants’ Motion to Compel
Arbitration and STAYS the proceeding pending a final resolution of Plaintiff’s
claims through arbitration and sets a Status Conference re Arbitration for
March 31, 2025 at 8:30 a.m..
 
Moving
Parties are ordered to give notice of this ruling.       
 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at SMC_DEPT56@lacourt.org as directed
by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department does not receive an email
and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion will be placed off
calendar.
 
Dated this 7th day of June 2024
 




 


 




 


Hon. Holly J.
  Fujie
Judge of the
  Superior Court
 



