 Case Number:  21STCV17355    Hearing Date:   June 7, 2024    Dept:  56  
 
SUPERIOR
COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR
THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



LINDA SUNIGA and
  CLAUDIA RAYA,
                                              Plaintiffs,
            vs.
 
CITY OF HAWAIIAN GARDENS, a municipal
  corporation and DOES 1 through 50, inclusive, 
                                                                             
  
                                               Defendants.    
 
                           


`


     
  CASE NO.: 21STCV17355
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER RE: 
MOTION FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT OR, IN THE
  ALTERNATIVE, SUMMARY ADJUDICATION OF ISSUES
 
Date: 
  June 7, 2024
Time: 8:30 a.m.
Dept:  56
Judge: Holly J. Fujie
Jury Trial: September 16, 2024



 
 
 
MOVING PARTY:                Defendant
City of Hawaiian Gardens (“Defendant”)
RESPONDING PARTY:        Plaintiff
Claudia Raya (“Raya”) 
 
            The Court has considered the moving,
opposition, reply and supplemental papers. 
 
BACKGROUND
This
is an employment law action where plaintiffs allege Defendant retaliated
against them for engaging in protected activities under Labor Code section
1102.5 and the California Fair Employment and Housing Act (“FEHA”).  The complaint alleges: (1) whistleblower
retaliation (Lab. Code, § 1102.5), (2) retaliation in violation of FEHA (Gov.
Code, § 12940, et seq.).  
 
In
relevant part, the complaint alleges: Raya and Linda Suniga (“Suniga”)
(collectively, “Plaintiffs”) have been Defendant’s employees for over ten
years.  (Compl. ¶ 10.)  From in or around October 2016 through in or
around January 2018, Fred Licon (“Licon”), a supervisor, subjected Raya to
unwelcome comments about her physical appearance, leering, and other sexual
harassment.  (Compl. ¶ 12.)  In or around January 2018, Raya reported
Licon to Human Resources (“HR”).  (Compl.
¶ 13.)  As part of the investigation of Raya’s
sexual harassment complaint against Licon, Defendant interviewed Suniga as a
witness.  (Compl. ¶ 14.)  In the end, however, Defendant covered up Licon’s
conduct and permitted him to continue acting as a supervisor.  (Compl. ¶ 15.)  Licon also happened to be the President of
AFSCME Local 3624, a union bargaining representative for Defendant’s
employees.  (Compl. ¶¶ 16, 22.)  Plaintiffs had reasonable cause to believe
that Licon was handling union funds in ways that were violating the law and,
therefore, commencing February 2019, reported Licon to Defendant’s
management.  (Compl. ¶ 27.)  Subsequently, in or about March 2020,
Plaintiffs filed formal written charges against Licon, and other union officers
for mishandling union funds.  (Compl. ¶
28.)  Following the filing of formal
charges, Defendant, in or about July 2020, suddenly transferred Raya from her
HR position to the Public Safety Department. 
(Compl. ¶¶ 31.)  Subsequently, on
or about August 7, 2020, documents in support of Plaintiffs’ union-related
charges were submitted to Licon, Defendant and AFSCME’s judicial panel.  (Compl. ¶ 32.)  Then, on or about August 19, 2020, Plaintiffs
testified against Licon at the hearing conducted by the judicial panel.  (Compl. ¶ 33.) 
Those foregoing actions by Plaintiffs (i.e., submitting documents and
testifying against Licon) constituted protected activity within the meaning of
Labor Code section 1102.5 and FEHA. 
(Compl. ¶¶ 35, 47.)  Following those
protected activities, Defendant retaliated against Raya by transferring her to
a lesser position in the finance department on or about September 28, 2020,
consequently causing her to lose pay, promotions and pension benefits, among
other things.  (Compl. ¶¶ 38, 40.) 
 
On
April 10, 2023, Defendant filed the instant motion for summary judgment or, in
the alternative, summary adjudication (the “Motion”), arguing that Plaintiffs’ claims
lack merit.  The hearing was initially
set for June 21, 2023, but continued to April 25, 2024.  
 
On
March 6, 2024, Suniga filed a Notice of Partial Conditional Settlement of her
claims against Defendant, and her claims were dismissed with prejudice on May
20, 2024. 
 
On
March 8, 2024, “Plaintiffs” filed a joint opposition to the instant motion for
summary judgment even though Suniga had already settled her claims with
Defendant. 
 
On
March 12, 2024, Defendant filed a notice of errata, replacing the word “harassment”
with “retaliation” in its notice of motion.
            
            On March 13, 2024, Defendant filed
an ex parte application seeking, among other things, an order allowing it to
file a revised separate statement striking out facts concerning Suniga because Suniga
had already settled.  The ex parte
application also sought an order striking Raya’s separate statement of
additional disputed material facts, arguing that the document failed to comply
with the California Rules of Court. 
 
            On March 14, 2024, the Court granted
Defendant’s ex parte application and ordered that  Defendant resubmit an amended separate
statement by March 29, 2024, that Raya file her opposition to the motion for
summary judgment by April 10, 2024 and the reply was to be filed by April 16,
2024. 
 
            On March 29, 2024, Defendant filed its
Amended Separate Statement of Undisputed Material Facts.  On April 10, 2024, Raya filed her opposition
to the Motion and on April 16, 2024, Defendant filed its reply in support of
the Motion. 
 
On
April 18, 2024, Raya filed a request for judicial notice of Muldrow v. City of
St. Louis, Missouri (2024) 144 S.Ct. 967 (“Muldrow”).  When Raya filed her request for judicial
notice, only the following citation was available on Westlaw for that case: Muldrow
v. City of St. Louis, Missouri (U.S., Apr. 17, 2024, No. 22-193) 2024 WL
1642826. 

            On April 19, 2024, Defendant
filed an objection to the request for judicial notice of Muldrow,
arguing that (1) the parties have not submitted any briefing explaining the
relevance of that case, and (2) if the Court is inclined to rely on Muldrow
to deny Defendant’s Motion, the Court should continue the hearing and allow the
parties to submit supplemental briefs addressing Muldrow. 
 
            On April 24, 2024, the Court
continued the hearing on the Motion and ordered the parties to file and serve
supplemental briefs of not more than five pages each, only addressing the
effect, if any, of Muldrow on the Motion. 
 
            On May 10, 2024, Raya filed her
supplemental brief. On May 24, 2024, Defendant filed its opposing supplemental
brief and on May 28, 2024, Raya filed her reply to the opposing brief.
 
REQUEST FOR
JUDICIAL NOTICE
On
April 10, 2023, Defendant filed a request for judicial notice of (a) the
administrative complaints Plaintiffs filed with the Department of Fair Housing
and Employment (“DFEH”) (Exhibits 1 and 2), (b) Plaintiffs’ government tort
claims (Exhibits 3 and 4), and (c) State of California Gambling Commission
Notices (Exhibit 11).
 
Defendant’s
unopposed request for judicial notice is GRANTED.  (Evid. Code, § 452, subds. (c) and (h); Trinity
Park, L.P. v. City of Sunnyvale (2011) 193 Cal.App.4th 1014, 1027 [“The
Evidence Code … expressly provides for judicial notice of a public entity’s
legislative enactments (Evid. Code, § 452, subd. (b)) and official acts (id.,
subd. (c)). Thus, we may take notice of local ordinances [citation] and the
official resolutions, reports, and other official acts of a city [citation]”].)  
 
Raya’s
request for judicial notice of Muldrow is GRANTED, although it is not
necessary to request judicial notice of cases. 
(Evid. Code, § 452, subd. (d).)  
 
EVIDENTIARY OBJECTIONS
Defendant
has filed objections to Suniga’s declaration, attached as Exhibit 8 to the
Declaration of Marla A. Brown (“Brown”) filed on March 8, 2024.  Objection numbers 1 and 2 are SUSTAINED.  Objection numbers 3, 4, 5, and 6 are
OVERRULED.   
 
Defendant’s
objections to Brown’s declaration, numbers 4, 5, 9, 15, 19, and 20 are
SUSTAINED.  The Court notes that in her “Rebuttal
to Defendant Objections to Evidence” filed on April 17, 2024, Raya claims that some
of the evidence referenced in those objections are described in the deposition
transcripts attached to Brown’s declaration and that the rest of the evidence constitutes
business records.  The Court, however,
has not found that to be the case.  The
request to rule on objection numbers 1, 2, 3, 6, 7, 8, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 16,
17, and 18 is DENIED AS MOOT because Raya has informed the Court that the
amended separate statements have eliminated the evidence referred to in those
objections.  (Rebuttal to Defendant
Objections to Evidence, filed April 17, 2024, pp. 3-4.)  
 
The
Court notes that on April 16, 2024, Defendant filed a response to Raya’s
Revised Statement of Additional Disputed Material Facts that contains
evidentiary objections.  To the extent
Defendant is asking the Court to rule on those objections, that request is DENIED.  (See Brown v. El Dorado Union High School
Dist. (2022) 76 Cal.App.5th 1003, 1020 [“A separate statement is not, in
and of itself, evidence.  It is a
document that summarizes evidence and creates a roadmap for the parties and
court to work with in considering a motion for summary judgment”]; Cal. Rules
of Court, rule 3.1354(b) [“All written objections to evidence must be served
and filed separately from the other papers in support of or in opposition to
the motion [for summary judgment].  Objections
to specific evidence must be referenced by the objection number in the right
column of a separate statement in opposition or reply to a motion, but the
objections must not be restated or reargued in the separate statement”].) 
 
DISCUSSION
            The function of a motion for summary
judgment or adjudication is to allow a determination as to whether an opposing
party cannot show evidentiary support for a pleading or claim and to enable an
order of summary dismissal without the need for trial.  (Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co.
(2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 843.)  California Code
of Civil Procedure section 437c, subdivision (c) requires the judge to
grant summary judgment if all the evidence submitted, and all inferences
reasonably deducible from the evidence and uncontradicted by other inferences
or evidence, show that there is no triable issue as to any material fact and
that the moving party is entitled to judgment as a matter of law.  (Adler v. Manor Healthcare Corp. (1992)
7 Cal.App.4th 1110, 1119.)
 
“A
defendant or cross-defendant has met his or her burden of showing that a cause
of action has no merit if the party has shown that one or more elements of the
cause of action, even if not separately pleaded, cannot be established, or that
there is a complete defense to the cause of action.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c,
subd. (p)(2).) “Once the defendant or cross-defendant has met that burden, the
burden shifts to the plaintiff or cross-complainant to show that a triable
issue of one or more material facts exists as to the cause of action or a
defense thereto.” (Ibid.)
 
Courts
liberally construe the evidence in support of the party opposing summary
judgment and resolve doubts concerning the evidence in favor of that party.  (Dore v. Arnold Worldwide, Inc. (2006)
39 Cal. 4th 384, 389.)  The court cannot
weigh the credibility of witnesses or weigh other evidence, and where there is
a conflict in declarations presented by the parties on material issues of fact
or a conflict in the inferences to be drawn from that evidence, the court must
deny the motion.  (Binder v. Aetna Life.
Ins. Co. (1999) 75 Cal.App.4th 832, 840)
 
First Cause of
Action for Whistleblower Retaliation (Lab. Code, § 1102.5)
Labor Code “[s]ection
1102.5 provides whistleblower protections to employees who disclose wrongdoing
to authorities.” (Lawson v. PPG Architectural Finishes, Inc. (2022) 12
Cal.5th 703, 709 (“Lawson”).)  The
statute “prohibits an employer from retaliating against an employee for sharing
information the employee ‘has reasonable cause to believe ... discloses a
violation of state or federal statute’ or of ‘a local, state, or federal rule
or regulation’ with a government agency, with a person with authority over the
employee, or with another employee who has authority to investigate or correct
the violation.  [Citation.]” (Ibid.)
 
Defendant moves
for summary adjudication of the first cause of action for whistleblower retaliation,
arguing that the claim lacks merit because: (1) it is time-barred because Raya
failed to present a timely government tort claim, (2) Raya was not subjected to
any adverse employment action, (3) Plaintiffs’ participation in the 2019-2020
union proceedings was not a disclosure or report of unlawful conduct that was
previously unknown to Defendant, (4) there is no evidence of any causal
connection between any alleged adverse employment action and protected activity,
and (5) Defendant had legitimate reasons for the alleged adverse employment
actions. 
 
1. Whether Raya’s
Whistleblower Retaliation Claim is Time-Barred
 Defendant argues that “Raya’s claim for
whistleblower retaliation is time-barred [by the Government Claims Act (“GCA”)]
because Raya did not present a government tort claim within six months of the first
alleged act of whistleblower retaliation.” (Motion, p. 10:9-11 [emphasis
added].) Specifically, Defendant argues that since Raya testified that Licon
first retaliated against her in 2017 and 2019, Raya’s claims accrued more than
six months before she presented her tort claim to Defendant in December
2020.  (Motion, p. 19:22-28; Compl. ¶ 9 [alleging
that Raya presented her claims to
Defendant on or about December 17, 2020].)
 
The GCA “‘“establishes
certain conditions precedent to the filing of a lawsuit against a public
entity.  [Under the Act] …, a plaintiff
must timely file a claim for money or damages with the public entity.  (§ 911.2.) ....” [Citation.] “[T]he claims
presentation requirement applies to all forms of monetary demands, regardless
of the theory of the action ....”’” (Willis v. City of Carlsbad (2020)
48 Cal.App.5th 1104, 1118 (“Willis”); but see Murray v. Oceanside
Unified School Dist. (2000) 79 Cal.App.4th 1338, 1360 [“actions brought
under FEHA have been held exempt from the claims presentation requirements of
the general Tort Claims Act”].)
 
Under the GCA, “‘[c]laims
for personal injury must be presented not later than six months after the
accrual of the cause of action ….’  [Citation.]”
 (Willis, supra, 48
Cal.App.5th at p. 1118.)  “‘Accrual for
purposes of the Act is the date of accrual that would pertain under the statute
of limitations applicable to a dispute between private litigants.  [Citations.]’”  (Ibid.)  “If a claim is not timely presented, a written
application may be made to the public entity for leave to present such claim.  [Citation.]  If the public entity denies the application,
section 946.6 authorizes the injured party to petition the court for relief
from the claim requirements.”  (Id.
at p. 1119.)  “‘“‘Only after the public entity’s
board has acted upon or is deemed to have rejected the claim may the injured
person bring a lawsuit alleging a cause of action in tort against the public
entity.”’  [Citations.]  The deadline for bringing a lawsuit against
the public entity after a claim has been acted upon or deemed denied ‘is a true
statute of limitations ....’  [Citation.]”
 (Id. at pp. 1118–1119.)
 
Here, it is
undisputed that Raya presented a government tort claim to the City on December
16, 2020.  (Raya’s Amended Response to
Separate Statement of Undisputed Material Facts (“UMF”), ¶ 3.)  
 
Therefore, any alleged wrongful conduct
must have occurred after June 16, 2020 (i.e., within six months of December 16,
2020). 
.
The complaint alleges that in or about
July 2020, Raya was suddenly moved from her HR position to the Public Safety
Department in retaliation for filing union-related charges against Licon and
others.  (Compl.  ¶ 20.)  
 
The complaint also alleges that after Raya
testified at the union proceedings related to those charges, Defendant, on or
about September 28, 2020, demoted Raya to the Finance Department and gave her
job duties akin to those of a receptionist. 
(Compl.  ¶ 24.) 
 
Raya bases her whistleblower retaliation
claim on those actions that took place on or about July and September 2020.  (See Compl.
 ¶¶ 31-39 [discussing only retaliation
following their union-related complaints, not Defendant’s alleged retaliation
for Raya’s sexual harassment  complaint against
Licon].)  
 
Therefore, even
if Raya testified that Licon first retaliated against her in 2017 and 2019, Raya’s
whistleblower retaliation claim is not based on wrongful conduct that occurred
in 2017 or 2019.  There is no law
holding, as Defendant appears to argue, that an employee cannot sue an employer
for new wrongful conduct just because the employer previously engaged in
that conduct and the employee failed to do anything about it.  As long as the conduct that the employee is
basing her retaliation claim falls within the statute of limitations, that
conduct is not barred. 
 
Accordingly, the
Court finds Defendant’s time-barring argument unpersuasive. 
 
2.
Whether Raya Suffered an Adverse Employment Action
Defendant also argues that the first cause of action for whistleblower
retaliation lacks merit because Raya was not subjected to any adverse
employment action. 
 
As an initial matter, in 2022, the California
Supreme Court clarified that Labor Code “section 1102.6 provides the governing
framework for the presentation and evaluation of whistleblower retaliation
claims brought under section 1102.5.” (Lawson, supra, 12 Cal.5th
at p. 718.)  
 
Before Lawson, some courts applied the McDonnell
Douglas test to Labor Code section 1102.5 retaliation cases, “describing
[the test in those contexts] as follows: First, a plaintiff who seeks to rely
on circumstantial evidence must establish a prima facie case of retaliation,
meaning “‘a plaintiff must show that she engaged in protected activity, that
she was thereafter subjected to adverse employment action by her employer, and
there was a causal link between the two.’”’ [Citation.]” (Lawson, supra,
12 Cal.5th at p. 710.) “Second, if the plaintiff has established a prima
facie case, the burden of production shifts to the employer to come
forward with evidence of ’a legitimate, nondiscriminatory reason for the
adverse employment action.’ [Citation.]” (Ibid.) “Third, if the employer
produces substantial evidence of a legitimate, nondiscriminatory reason, then
the plaintiff bears the burden of proving the reason was a pretext for
impermissible retaliation.” (Ibid.) 
 
Under Lawson,
however, the framework under Labor Code section 1102.6 differs from the McDonnell
Douglas test.  
 
Under the former
case, the burden is first placed “on the plaintiff to establish, by a
preponderance of the evidence, that retaliation for an employee’s protected
activities was a contributing factor in a contested employment action.” (Lawson,
supra, 12 Cal.5th at p. 718.) “Once the plaintiff has made the required
showing, the burden shifts to the employer to demonstrate, by clear and
convincing evidence, that it would have taken the action in question for
legitimate, independent reasons even had the plaintiff not engaged in protected
activity.” (Ibid.)
 
Therefore, Raya
must first prove by a preponderance of the evidence that: (1) she engaged in
the alleged protected activity under Labor Code section 1102.5, (2) she was
subjected to adverse employment action by Defendant, and (3) there is a causal
link between her protected activity and the alleged adverse action.  (City of Whittier v. Everest National Ins.
Co. (2023) 97 Cal.App.5th 895, 907, as modified on denial of reh’g (Dec.
26, 2023), review filed (Jan. 12, 2024) (“City of Whittier”).)
 
            Before
analyzing whether Raya has met that burden, it is important to outline principles
that underlie those elements.  
 
Raya’s alleged “protected
activities” in her complaint are based on Labor Code section 1102.5,
subdivision (b) (“Section 1102.5(b)”) because she alleges that Defendant
retaliated against her for: (1) disclosing information related to alleged
mishandling of union funds; and (2) testifying at the union proceedings related
to those complaints.  Section 1102.5(b) “states,
in relevant part: ‘An employer ... shall not retaliate against an employee for
disclosing information ... to a government or law enforcement agency, to a
person with authority over the employee or another employee who has the
authority to investigate, discover, or correct the violation or noncompliance,
or for providing information to, or testifying before, any public body
conducting an investigation, hearing, or inquiry, if the employee has
reasonable cause to believe that the information discloses a violation of state
or federal statute, or a violation of or noncompliance with a local, state, or
federal rule or regulation ....’” (City of Whittier, supra, 97
Cal.App.5th at p. 907.) “[S]ection 1102.5(b) ‘reflects the broad public policy
interest in encouraging workplace whistle-blowers to report unlawful acts
without fearing retaliation.’ [Citations.]” (People ex rel. Garcia-Brower v.
Kolla’s, Inc. (2023) 14 Cal.5th 719, 723.)
 
“For purposes of
the [whistleblower] statute, an adverse employment action is one that ‘“materially
affects the terms, conditions, or privileges of employment.”  [Citations.]’ 
[Citation.]”  (City of Whittier,
supra, 97 Cal.App.5th at p. 907; Simers v. Los Angeles Times
Communications, LLC (2018) 18 Cal.App.5th 1248, 1279 (“Simers”)
[stating that “a job reassignment may be an adverse employment action when it
entails materially adverse consequences”].) 

 
For example, in Simmers,
a job reassignment entailed materially adverse consequences because it involved
“‘a change in status [and] a less distinguished title,’ and a ‘significant
change in job responsibilities.’  [Citation.]”
 (Simers, supra, 18
Cal.App.5th at p. 1280.)  In one federal
case cited by Simmers, transferring the plaintiff “from her forklift
operator job to a standard track laborer job” that paid the same was an adverse
employment action because the new position was “more arduous” and “‘dirtier’”
and the forklift position “required more qualifications, which is an indication
of prestige”; “[i]n essence, ... the reassignment was a demotion.”  (Ibid. [discussing White v.
Burlington Northern & Santa Fe Railway Co. (6th Cir. 2004) 364 F.3d
789, 803].)
 
It is worth
discussing Muldrow at this juncture because it is most relevant to the “adverse
employment action” element of Raya’s whistleblower retaliation claim. 
 
In Muldrow,
a sergeant brought a Title VII suit alleging that her employer, the St. Louis
Police Department, discriminated against her based on sex when they transferred
her from one jot to another because she was a woman.  (Muldrow, supra, 144 S.Ct. at
p. 969.)
 
The district court
granted the defendant city’s summary judgment, and the Eighth Circuit Court of
Appeals affirmed, holding that the plaintiff “had to—but could not—show that
the transfer caused her a ‘materially significant disadvantage.’ [Citation.]” (Muldrow,
supra, 144 S.Ct. at p. 969.)
 
The United
States Supreme Court (“SCOTUS”) reversed, holding that even though under
Title VII an employee had “to show that [a] transfer brought about some ‘disadvantageous’
change in an employment term or condition,” the employee did not need to show
those disadvantages were “‘significant …,’” “serious, or substantial, or any
similar adjective suggesting that the disadvantage[s] to the employee must
exceed a heightened bar.” (Muldrow,
supra, 144 S.Ct. at p. 974.)
 
In so holding, however (and as Defendant
alludes to in its supplemental brief), SCOTUS suggested that the above holding
did not change the standard of (or apply to) Title VII retaliation claims; it
only applied to Title VII discrimination claims.  (See Muldrow, supra,
144 S.Ct. at p. 969 [“Contrary
to the City’s view, there is also no reason to import a significant-harm
requirement from this Court’s decision in Burlington N. & S. F. R. Co.
v. White, 548 U.S. 53, 126 S.Ct. 2405, 165 L.Ed.2d 345.  The Court there held that Title VII’s
anti-retaliation provision—which prohibits an employer from taking action
against an employee for bringing or aiding a Title VII charge—applies only when
the retaliatory action is ‘materially adverse,’ meaning that it causes ‘significant’
harm.  [Citation.]  White adopted that standard for reasons
peculiar to the retaliation context.  The
test was meant to capture those employer actions serious enough to ‘dissuade[ ]
a reasonable worker from making or supporting a charge of discrimination.’  [Citation.]  An action causing less serious harm will not
deter Title VII enforcement and so falls outside the purposes of the ban on
retaliation.  But that reasoning does not
apply to the anti-discrimination provision, which flatly ‘prevent[s] injury to
individuals based on’ protected status, [citation], without distinguishing
between significant and less significant harms”].)
 
Therefore, under a Title VII retaliation
claim, an employee suing an employer for retaliation must still prove that the
alleged retaliatory action was “materially adverse” or, stated differently,
caused “significant” harm. 
 
Accordingly, the holding in Muldrow
is not relevant here, and Raya’s arguments relating to that case are unpersuasive.

 
Finally, “liability
under Labor Code section 1102.5, subdivision (c) does not require proof of bad
faith, malice, or punitive intent on the part of the employer.” (City of
Whittier, supra, 97 Cal.App.5th at p. 914.)
 
“To prove the employer’s
intent to retaliate, a plaintiff need only show that the protected activity … was
a ‘contributing factor’ to the adverse employment action.  [Citations.]” (City of Whittier, supra,
97 Cal.App.5th at p. 914.)  For example, “an
employer can be held liable for an adverse employment action against an
employee who refuses to participate in an unlawful activity even if the
employer honestly believes the activity is lawful and acts not to punish, but
to mitigate the harm to the employer’s business from what it believes is an
insubordinate employee.” (City of Whittier, supra, 97 Cal.App.5th
at p. 914.)
 
With those
principles in mind, Raya submits the following evidence to prove that: (1) she engaged
in the alleged protected activity, (2) she was subjected to adverse employment
action by Defendant, and (3) there was a causal link between her protected
activity and the alleged adverse action.  

 
Suniga, who
supervised Plaintiff both at HR and at the Public Safety Center, testifies in
her declaration as follows: “In or about late June, 2020, City Manager Ernie
Hernandez approached me.  He appeared angry,
and his voice was angry, and he stated to me that he was transferring Claudia
Raya from HR back to Public Safety as punishment for her working with the
Union, which was involved in proceedings against Fred Licon.  That transfer occurred in July, 2020.”  (Brown Decl., filed March 8, 2024, Exhibit 8 –
Suniga Decl.,
¶ 8 [the Court has overruled Defendant’s
objections to that testimony].)  
 
During her
deposition, Raya confirmed the July 2020 transfer, testifying that on July 1,
2020, she was reassigned back to the public safety department as a Staff
Assistant II.  (Brown Decl., Exhibit 1 –
Raya Depo., pp. 22:25-23:5.)  She also
testified that she was told by her supervisor Patrik Matson that the transfer
was “COVID-related” and that “every department had to make a 25 percent budget
cut,” yet she was the only HR assistant that got transferred.  (Raya Depo., p. 23:6-25.)  
 
Raya further
testified that although she kept the same salary when she transferred from HR
to Staff Assistant II (Raya Depo., p. 32:19-23), the latter position acted as a
“backup to the front counter [i.e., backup the receptionist]” by covering the
receptionist when they were sick or “not in for whatever reason …” (Raya Depo.,
pp. 38:22-39:5). 
 
In addition,
from July 1, 2020, to September 2020, she had no overtime (Raya Depo., pp.
110:23-111: ), even though when she was previously in the public safety
department from April 2017 to June 2019, she had opportunities for overtime (Raya
Depo, p. 44:7-20). 
 
The Court finds,
however, that Raya has not met her burden of showing by a preponderance of evidence
that the July 2020 transfer resulted in an adverse employment action.  Although Raya testified that her Staff
Assistant II position acted as a backup to the receptionist, she has not
submitted evidence showing why that job duty constituted an adverse employment
action from what she was doing before she got transferred to HR.  In addition, although she testified that she
lost overtime opportunities from July 2020 to September 2020, she also
testified that there was no possibility of overtime during that period because
of COVID-19.  (Raya Depo., p.
111:9-16.)  She also testified that she
has been getting medical and retirement benefits since 2011 and that her
benefits (except for overtime) were the same. 
Indeed, even under FEHA, “[a] transfer can be an adverse employment
action when it results in substantial and tangible harm.  A transfer is not an adverse employment action
when it is into a comparable position that does not result in substantial and
tangible harm.”  (McRae v. Department
of Corrections & Rehabilitation (2006) 142 Cal.App.4th 377, 393.)  Further, even if the standard in Muldrow
was applicable here, Raya has failed to show that her Staff Assistant II
position in the public safety department was “disadvantageous,” even if not
significant.  
 
Raya, however,
also alleges she suffered an adverse employment action when she was transferred
again in September 2020.  
 
During her
deposition, Raya testified that even though she was getting paid the same in
the finance department as she was in the public safety department (Raya Depo.,
pp. 110:23-111:4), she felt that she had been demoted when she was transferred
to the finance department for the following reasons: “The scope of [her] duties
were stripped away.  The public safety
commission meeting, for one; only [the] executive assistants perform those
duties.  The coordinating of programs and
events; only part of [the] supervisors would handle those types of, of tasks,
aside from all the other work that [she] had to do.”  (Raya Depo., p. 109:12-19.) Previously, as
Staff Assistant II in the public safety department, she “was doing executive
assistant work ….”  (Raya Depo., p.
109:23-24; see also Id. at p. 99:10-16 [testifying that she disliked her
diminished duties when she was in the finance department].)  
 
Raya argues that
the protected activity that she engaged in that caused Defendant to initiate the
September 2020 transfer was the fact that she testified in union proceedings on
August 19, 2020.  (Opposition, p.
11:25-28 [“After RAYA testified against Fred Licon on August 19, 2020 she was
suddenly sent to Finance, where her duties were diminished for no apparent
reason …”]; Brown Decl., Exhibit 7 – Declaration of Joseph Colombo, ¶ 6 [“The subject
of the Union charges against Fred Licon was frequently discussed by the City
employees, including the fact that Linda Suniga and Claudia Raya, and others
had brought the charges, and were slated to testify against Fred Licon in upcoming
hearings.  Fred Licon was not pleased
with Ms. Suniga and Ms. Raya, both of whom had filed harassment complaints
against him in addition to filing the member charges”].) 
 
To show a causal link between her
September 2020 transfer and the protected activity, Raya testified during her
deposition that she believed that Licon was the reason she was transferred and
that Licon had bragged about being the reason she was being transferred to employees
Andres Roman, Frank Amaro and Luis Polanco. 
(Raya Depo., p. 149:3-23.)
 
The Court finds that through the above
evidence, Raya has met her burden of establishing through a preponderance of
the evidence that: (1) she engaged in
the alleged protected activity (testifying against Licon at union meetings),
(2) was subjected to adverse employment action by Defendant (the September 2020
transfer), and (3) there was a causal link between her protected activity and
the alleged adverse action (Licon bragging to employees that he was the reason
she was being transferred in September 2020).
 
   Therefore, the burden shifts to Defendant to
demonstrate, by clear and convincing evidence, that it would have taken the
action in question (i.e., the September 2020 transfer) for legitimate,
independent reasons even if Raya had not testified in the union proceedings
against Licon.
 
“‘“‘Clear and convincing’ evidence
requires a finding of high probability.” [Citation.]. The evidence must be “‘so
clear as to leave no substantial doubt’; ‘sufficiently strong to command the
unhesitating assent of every reasonable mind.’”’  [Citations.]” 
… [I]t will be the ‘rare’ and ‘unusual’ case where a court is able to
make this finding.”  (In re White
(2018) 21 Cal.App.5th 18, 28–29.)
 
Here, Defendant argues that Raya was “temporarily”
transferred to the finance department in September 2020 due to the COVID-19
pandemic.  The evidence that Defendant
cites in support of that argument, Raya’s Response to Special Interrogatories,
Set One, No. 39, and Raya’s deposition, as well as her own complaint,
establishes that she was transferred from Public Safety to the Finance
Department in September 2020.  (UMF ¶¶
15, 70; Defendant’s Exhibit List, filed April 10, 2023, Exhibit 8 –Raya’s
response to the special interrogatory; Exhibit 5 – a copy of Raya’s deposition
transcripts, p. 115:5-20; complaint, ¶¶ 38 and 40.)  Raya further admits in her response to Defendant’s
special interrogatory that the Public Safety Center where she was then assigned
was closed due to COVID-19.  Those
discovery responses alone constitute clear and convincing evidence that Raya’s
transfer to the finance department in September 2020 was based on legitimate,
independent reasons.  
For those reasons, summary adjudication of
the first cause of action for whistleblower retaliation is GRANTED.  
 
Second Cause of
Action for Retaliation in Violation of FEHA
The retaliation
provision of FEHA “makes it an unlawful employment practice ‘[f]or any employer
... to discharge, expel, or otherwise discriminate against any person … because
the person has filed a complaint, testified, or assisted in any proceeding
under [FEHA].’ [Citation.]” (Yanowitz v. L’Oreal USA, Inc. (2005)
36 Cal.4th 1028, 1042 (italics removed) [discussing Gov. Code, § 12940, subd.
(h)].)
 
“To establish a
prima facie case of retaliation, ‘a plaintiff must show (1) he or she engaged
in a “protected activity,” (2) the employer subjected the employee to an
adverse employment action, and (3) a causal link existed between the protected
activity and the employer’s action.’  [Citation.]”
 (Zamora v. Security Industry
Specialists, Inc. (2021) 71 Cal.App.5th 1, 63.)
 
“In an action
asserting [a] claim … [for] retaliation [under FEHA], the court applies ‘a
three-stage burden-shifting test [i.e., the McDonnell Douglas test].” (Batarse
v. Service Employees Internat. Union, Local 1000 (2012) 209 Cal.App.4th
820, 831 (“Batarse”).)  “At trial,
the plaintiff bears the initial burden to establish a prima facie case of
discrimination or retaliation; if he does so, a presumption of discrimination
or retaliation arises.”  (Ibid.)  “The burden then shifts to the employer to
rebut the presumption by producing admissible evidence that its adverse
employment action was taken for a legitimate, nondiscriminatory or
nonretaliatory reason.”  (Ibid.)  “If it does so, the burden shifts back to
plaintiff to ‘attack the employer’s proffered reasons as pretexts for
discrimination’ or retaliation, or to offer other evidence of intentional
discrimination or retaliation.”  (Ibid.)
 
“A defendant
moving for summary judgment, however, may skip to the second step of the
analysis and demonstrate that it had a legitimate business reason, unrelated to
race, other protected classification, or retaliation, for taking its employment
action.”  (Batarse, supra,
209 Cal.App.4th at p. 831.)  “The
plaintiff then has ‘the burden to rebut this facially dispositive showing by
pointing to evidence which nonetheless raises a rational inference that
intentional discrimination [or retaliation] occurred.’  [Citation.]”  (Ibid. [italics removed].) 
 
Here,
the same arguments are made regarding the FEHA claim that it made for the
whistleblower retaliation claim. 
(Motion, pp. 24:19-29:3.)
 
For the same reasons as applied to the
first cause of action, summary adjudication of the second cause of action for
retaliation under FEHA is GRANTED.  
 
City of Hawaiian Gardens is ordered to give
notice of this ruling.
 


 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at SMC_DEPT56@lacourt.org as directed
by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department does not receive an email
and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion will be placed off
calendar.
 
           Dated this 7th day of June 2024
 




 


 




 


Hon. Holly J.
  Fujie
Judge of the Superior
  Court
 



