This is a habitability matter.  Defendants Henry Siegel and Bancroft Towers, LLC seek to strike the Complaint’s prayer for punitive damages because they contend that Plaintiffs only plead negligence.Motions to strike are used to challenge defects in the pleadings not subject to demurrer.  Any party may move to strike the whole or any part of a pleading within the time allotted to respond to the pleading.  (Code Civ. Proc. § 435(b)(1).)  The grounds for a motion to strike shall appear on the face of the challenged pleading or from any matter of which the Court is required to take judicial notice.  (Id. § 437(a).)  The Court may strike out any irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted in any pleading, and strike out all or any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of this state, a court rule, or an order of the court.  (Id. § 436.)  An “irrelevant” matter includes any “demand for judgment requesting relief not supported by the allegations of the complaint or cross-complaint.”  (Id. § 431.10(b)(3), (c); see also Smith v. Superior Court (1992) 10 Cal.App.4th 1033, 1036-1042.)Punitive damages are available when the plaintiff establishes oppression, fraud, or malice by clear and convincing evidence.  (Civ. Code § 3294(a).)  Malice means “conduct which is intended by the defendant to cause injury to the plaintiff or despicable conduct which is carried on by the defendant with a willful and conscious disregard of the rights or safety of others.”  (Civ. Code § 3294(c)(1).)  In this context, despicable conduct is conduct considered “so vile, base, contemptible, miserable, wretched or loathsome that it would be looked down upon and despised by ordinary decent people.”  (Scott v. Phoenix Schools, Inc. (2009) 175 Cal.App.4th 702, 715, internal quotation marks omitted.)  Oppression means “despicable conduct that subjects a person to cruel and unjust hardship in conscious disregard of that person’s rights.”  (Civ. Code § 3294(c)(2).)  Fraud means “an intentional misrepresentation, deceit, or concealment of a material fact known to the defendant with the intention on the part of the defendant of thereby depriving a person of property or legal rights or otherwise causing injury.”  (Id. § 3294(c)(3).)The request for punitive damages is made only generally in the prayer for relief.  The Motions are denied with respect to this request because Plaintiffs plead a conversion claim relating to pledge funds in the amount of $100,000 and an intent to injure.  If there is a defect in this cause of action, the appropriate vehicle to address that issue would be a demurrer or motion for judgment on the pleadings. Because some right to punitive damages is currently pleaded, the Motions to Strike are denied. Moving parties to give notice.If counsel do not submit on the tentative, they are strongly encouraged to appear by LACourtConnect rather than in person due to the COVID-19 pandemic. 