On December 12, 2023, Plaintiffs Peacock Homestead LLC, et al. filed the operative Complaint for declaratory relief against Defendants Jeffrey Prang, as Assessor for the County of Los Angeles, and the County of Los Angeles.  The allegations of the Complaint are as follows.  Plaintiffs are property developers with properties in the Portuguese Bend, an area that is subject to a slow-moving landslide.  Because of the landslide, the improvements on the land shift over time.  “The dispute is whether the property lines are moving along with the improvements or whether the property lines remain static. This issue affects the property taxes each Plaintiff pays each year. If the property lines are moving, particularly since they move at different speeds and in different directions, then the location of the parcels, the square footage of the parcels, the nature of the parcels, and other features change on a continuous and ongoing basis. As such, the associated property taxes would need to be reassessed and changed each year to reflect the conditions on the ground. On the other hand, if the property lines are static, then the property taxes do not need to be reassessed continuously.”  Defendants have apparently not indicated their viewpoint on this issue.  The declaratory relief claim asks two questions: “a. Do the property lines in Portuguese Bend move with the landslide movement of the surface improvements? b. If so, does the Los Angeles County Assessor need to reassess each affected parcel in Portuguese Bend every year to provide an accurate basis for assessment including the new square footages and the conditions of the properties?”Defendants demur to the Complaint because Plaintiffs did not exhaust their administrative remedies by presenting a claim before the State Board of Equalization; they further contend that the Complaint improperly seeks to enjoin unpaid taxes.When considering demurrers, courts read the allegations liberally and in context, and “treat the demurrer as admitting all material facts properly pleaded, but not contentions, deductions or conclusions of fact or law.” (Serrano v. Priest (1971) 5 Cal.3d 584, 591.)  “A demurrer tests the pleadings alone and not the evidence or other extrinsic matters. Therefore, it lies only where the defects appear on the face of the pleading or are judicially noticed. The only issue involved in a demurrer hearing is whether the complaint, as it stands, unconnected with extraneous matters, states a cause of action.”  (Hahn v. Mirda¿(2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747.)  It is error “to sustain a demurrer without leave to amend if the plaintiff shows there is a reasonable possibility any defect identified by the defendant can be cured by amendment.”  (Aubry v. Tri-City Hospital Dist.¿(1992) 2 Cal.4th 962, 967.)As an initial matter, in their Reply, Defendants argue that the declaratory relief claim fails to plead an actual controversy.  Because this argument was first raised in Defendants’ Reply brief, the Court will not consider it at this time.  (See, e.g., Jay v. Mahaffey (2013) 218 Cal.App.4th 1522, 1537.)As to exhaustion, “ ‘In the property tax context, application of the exhaustion principle means that a taxpayer ordinarily may not file or pursue a court action for a tax refund without first applying to the local board of equalization for assessment reduction under section 1603 and filing an administrative tax refund claim under section 5097.’ [ ] . . . [I]t has long been held that taxpayers that claim that their property has been overvalued must exhaust the assessment appeal administrative remedy before resorting to the courts.”  (Williams & Fickett v. Cty. of Fresno (2017) 2 Cal.5th 1258, 1268.)“The statutory procedures associated with assessment appeals connote that the central responsibility of county boards is to decide questions of valuation[] ([e].g., § 1603, subd. (a)[]) [and] inextricably connected . . . issues of fact, such as whether a change in ownership has occurred, whether property has been properly classified, and whether a taxpayer in fact owns assessed property.”  (Id. at p. 1269.)There is no failure to exhaust because the Board of Equalization apparently deals with assessments that have already been made and particularly as to valuation issues.  Here, Plaintiffs do not challenge any current assessment.  In fact, they seek to reaffirm their current tax-scheme and not make any changes.  Lastly, Rev. & Tax. Code § 4807 provides in relevant part, “No injunction or writ of mandate or other legal or equitable process shall issue in any suit, action, or proceeding in any court against any county, municipality, or district, or any officer thereof, to prevent or enjoin the collection of property taxes sought to be collected.”Plaintiffs argue that “The complaint simply asks whether the current rates are correct or whether the County is owed more in property taxes because the base year value for the portions of properties subject to changed property lines would be reassessed to a higher level. There is no part of this action that could result in the ‘prevent[ion] or enjoin[ing] the collection of the tax’ as raised by Defendant. Instead, this action solely asks whether the property taxes are correct at their current levels or should go higher because of continuous reassessments.”Plaintiffs, however, seem to ignore that if a ruling were entered in their favor, it would mean that Defendants cannot engage in “continuous” reassessments that would increase Plaintiffs’ tax liabilities.  That is, this suit might result in equitable relief that would prevent the collection of a future tax, which is not allowable.  Indeed, Section 4807 applies even with respect to actions seeking to preclude a future tax.  (See Merced Cnty. Taxpayers' Assn. v. Cardella (1990) 218 Cal.App.3d 396, 401.)  The Court concludes that Section 4807 bars this suit.  Thus, the Demurrer is sustained.  Leave to amend is to be argued.Moving parties to give notice.If counsel do not submit on the tentative, they are strongly encouraged to appear by LACourtConnect rather than in person due to the COVID-19 pandemic. 