 Case Number:  KC070042    Hearing Date:   May 28, 2024    Dept:  6 CASE  NAME:  Bharat  Patel, et al. v. Dr. Prakash Patel  Supplemental  Briefing re Attorneys’ Fees against Defendant Hardika Patel  TENTATIVE  RULING  The Court OVERRULES Defendants’ objections to Proposed Judgment  After Trial. The Court will sign the proposed amended judgment submitted on  April 29, 2024.               Plaintiffs are ordered to give  notice of the Court’s ruling within five calendar days of the Court’s order.  BACKGROUND  This is a real property dispute. On February 14, 2018, Plaintiffs  Bharat Patel (Bharat) and Dinesh Patel (Dinesh) (collectively, Plaintiffs)  filed this action (KC070042) against Dr. Prakash Patel and Does 1 through 10,  alleging causes of action for breach of settlement agreement and fraud. On  March 16, 2020, Prakash Patel (Prakash) and Hardika Patel (Hardika)  (collectively, Defendants) filed a separate action (20STCV10801) against Bharat  Patel, Dinesh Patel, and Does 1 through 100, alleging causes of action for  voiding and rescission of first settlement agreement, voiding and rescission of  second settlement agreement, voiding and rescission of third settlement  agreement, fraud (misrepresentation), fraud (false promise), fraud  (concealment), negligent misrepresentation, voiding and rescission of first  settlement agreement (fraud), voiding and rescission of second settlement  agreement (fraud), and voiding and rescission of third settlement agreement  (fraud). The actions were later consolidated on June 23, 2020, with KC070042  being designated as the lead case.  On July 27, 2020, Bharat and Dinesh filed a cross-complaint  against Prakash and Hardika. The current operative pleading is the Second  Amended Cross-Complaint, filed on March 13, 2023, which alleges causes of  action for breach of settlement agreement, fraud (misrepresentation), fraud  (concealment), conspiracy to commit fraud, and declaratory relief.  On October 10, 2022, the Court entered summary judgment in favor  of Bharat and Dinesh on Prakash and Hardika’s complaint.  On January 19, 2024, after a four-day non-jury trial, concurrent  with a jury trial, the Court issued a statement of decision in favor of Plaintiffs on the sole remaining Second Amended Cross-Complaint.  On April 29, 2024, following the Court’s grant of Plaintiffs’  motion for attorneys’ fees, Plaintiffs submitted a proposed amended judgment.  On the same date, Defendants objected to the proposed amended judgment on the  grounds that attorneys’ fees against Hardika are improper because she was not a  signatory to the 2018 settlement agreement. On May 2, 2024, the Court set a  hearing for May 29, 2024, and ordered the parties to provide briefing on whether  attorneys’ fees can be awarded against a nonsignatory defendant to a contract,  due 10 days before the hearing. On May 17, 2024, both parties submitted their  respective briefs.  DISCUSSION  Plaintiffs’ Arguments  Plaintiffs contend Defendants waived any arguments regarding  the imposition of attorneys’ fees against Hardika by failing to raise them in  their opposition to the motion for attorneys’ fees. Plaintiffs contend this  action was on a contract and that had Hardika prevailed, she would have claimed  attorneys’ fees against Plaintiffs. Plaintiffs contend that Defendants both  alleged in their Third Cause of Action in their complaint that the 2018 settlement  agreement was illegal and void, they sought attorneys’ fees for all of their  claims, and Hardika alleged that she was fraudulently induced to enter into an  earlier settlement agreement.  Plaintiffs also contend that the action against  Hardika with respect to the 2018 settlement agreement was on a contract, as  Plaintiffs sued for specific performance and declaratory relief, alleging that  Hardika complied with its terms and ratified the agreement. Plaintiffs note  that Hardika was ordered to comply with the terms of the 2018 settlement  agreement, that Plaintiffs proved Hardika ratified that agreement, and that the  Court found Hardika benefited from it. Plaintiffs further contend that Hardika  contemplated attorneys’ fees to be awarded in her favor in both Defendants’  complaint and in defending the lawsuit against her since she answered the  operative Second Amended Cross-Complaint and requested attorneys’ fees.  Defendants’ Arguments  Defendants contend that the attorneys’ fees provision  in the 2018 settlement agreement covers only contract claims, and does not  cover tort claims or other noncontract claims. Defendants contend Hardika was  not sued on contract claims, but only tort claims, i.e., conspiracy to defraud  and declaratory relief. Defendants contend that if Hardika had prevailed at  trial, she would not have been entitled to attorneys’ fees because the  attorneys’ fees clause in the 2018 settlement agreement only covers contract claims,  as evidenced by the lack of broad language, such as “arising out of” or “in  connection with,” and only referred to “an action to enforce the Stipulation to  and Confession of Judgment.”  Defendants also argue that declaratory relief is not  sufficient to bring Hardika within the scope of the attorneys’ fees clause in a  written contract since Plaintiffs seek only a declaration of rights. Defendants  contend there are no rights against Hardika because she is not a party to any  settlement agreement, but rather only signed some escrow documents that were  not part of the 2018 settlement agreement. Defendants also contend Hardika  refused to sign the final escrow documents and demanded a cancellation of the  escrow.  Defendants further contend that Hardika does not  stand in the shoes of Prakash, since they each own a ½ interest in the subject  property, and Hardika was not sued on the contract, nor did she sign it.  Defendants then contend Hardika is not a third-party beneficiary because she  did not sign the 2018 settlement agreement and thus did not manifest an intent  to transfer her ½ interest in the subject property to Plaintiffs, and she later  revoked her signing of the escrow documents and grant deed and asked escrow to  be cancelled.              Analysis  As a general rule, attorney fees are awarded only  when the action involves a claim covered by a contractual attorney fee  provision and the lawsuit is between signatories to the contract. (Super 7 Motel Associates v. Wang  (1993) 16 Cal.App.4th 541, 544-545 [20 Cal.Rptr.2d 193].)  Under some circumstances, however, the reciprocity  principles of Civil Code section 1717 will be applied in actions involving  signatory and nonsignatory parties. (Reynolds Metal Co. v. Alperson, supra, 25 Cal.3d at  p. 128.) “Its purposes require [Civil Code] section 1717 be interpreted to  further provide a reciprocal remedy for a nonsignatory defendant, sued on a  contract as if he were a party to it, when a plaintiff would clearly be  entitled to attorney's fees should he prevail in enforcing the contractual  obligation against the defendant.” (Ibid.)  (Real Prop. Servs. Corp.  v. City of Pasadena (1994) 25 Cal.App.4th 375, 379-380.)   "[T]he fundamental purpose of section 1717 [is] to  insure mutuality of a prevailing party's access to an award of attorney fees.  As long as an action 'involves' a contract, and one of the parties would be  entitled to recover attorney fees under the contract if that party prevails in  its lawsuit, the other party should also be entitled to attorney fees if it  prevails, even if it does so by successfully arguing the inapplicability,  invalidity, unenforceability, or nonexistence of the same contract.  [Citations.]" Milman v. Shukhat, supra, 22 Cal.App.4th at p. 545 (internal  citations omitted.) The Court finds Plaintiffs are  entitled to recover attorneys’ fees against Hardika because the cause of action  for declaratory relief involves the 2018 settlement agreement and is therefore  an action on the contract for purposes of Civil Code section 1717, and Hardika would be entitled to attorneys' fees had she prevailed. (Milman  v. Shukhat (1994) 22 Cal.App.4th 538, 543 [finding Civil Code section 1717  applied to declaratory relief action in which defendants prevailed because  their purported signatures on the contracts were forged]; see also Code Civ.  Proc., § 1060 [“Any person interested… under a contract…, or who desires  a declaration of his or her rights or duties with respect to another, or in  respect to, in, over or upon property… may, in cases of actual controversy  relating to the legal rights and duties of the respective parties, bring an  original action or cross-complaint in the superior court for a declaration of  his or her rights and duties in the premises, including a determination of any  question of construction or validity arising under the instrument or contract.”])  Plaintiffs’ declaratory relief claim in this action  was based on the 2018 settlement agreement. (See SACC, ¶¶ 62-72; Statement of  Decision (1/19/24).) Plaintiffs sought declaratory relief and specific  performance against both Prakash and Hardika in connection with the subject  property via the 2018 settlement agreement. (SACC, Prayer for Relief, ¶¶ 3-5.) The  Court awarded declaratory relief in favor of Plaintiffs and against Defendants  in this action, and declared that Plaintiffs are entitled to a 100% interest in  the subject property per the terms of the 2018 settlement agreement, that Hardika  consented to the transfer of the subject property to Plaintiffs, thereby  waiving her interest in the subject property under Family Code section 1102 and  relinquishing all rights therein to Plaintiffs, that Hardika was estopped from  seeking to void the conveyance of the subject property to Plaintiffs, and  ordered the parties to specifically perform the terms of the 2018 settlement  agreement. (Statement of Decision (1/19/24).) If Defendants had prevailed  instead, the Court necessarily would have found that Plaintiffs had no additional  interest in the subject property, that Hardika retained her 50% interest in the  subject property, and that the 2018 settlement agreement could not be enforced  to require Hardika to convey her interest in the subject property. In such case,  both Prakash and Hardika would have been entitled to recover attorneys’ fees because  they would have been the prevailing parties on the contract. (See Real Prop.  Servs. Corp. v. City of Pasadena, supra, 25 Cal.App.4th at pp. 379-380; see  also Milman v. Shukhat, supra, 22 Cal.App.4th at pp. 543-545 [defendants  who prevail on proving the unenforceability or nonexistence of a contract are  considered prevailing parties on the contract for purposes of Civil Code  section 1717].) Under section 1717, if Hardika and Prakash would have been able  to recover attorney fees from Plaintiffs had they prevailed, Plaintiffs  likewise may recover fees from Hardika and Prakash as prevailing parties. This  holds true even though Hardika did not sign the 2018 settlement agreement.  Since the action "involved" a contract, and Hardika would have been  entitled to recover attorneys' fees under the contract had she prevailed, Plaintiffs  are entitled to recover attorneys' fees against Hardika.  The Court finds Defendants’ arguments regarding  contract claims versus noncontract claims and declaratory relief claims to be  unavailing. As made clear above, Plaintiffs’ claim for declaratory relief is an  action on the contract, i.e., the 2018 settlement agreement, for purposes of  Civil Code section 1717. Defendants’ argument that there are no rights to  declare against Hardika because she is not a party to any settlement agreement  ignores the Court’s decision declaring the parties’ rights and obligations in  connection with the 2018 settlement agreement and the subject property. (See  Statement of Decision (1/19/24).)  With respect to the argument that Hardika does not  stand in the shoes of Prakash, (see Texas Commerce Bank v. Garamendi (1994)  28 Cal.App.4th 1234, 1245), that argument may be correct, but it is inapposite  because Hardika need not stand in the shoes of Prakash to be obligated to pay  Plaintiffs’ attorneys’ fees. The determining factor here is whether Hardika  would have been entitled to recover attorneys’ fees against Plaintiffs if she  had prevailed on the contract. (See Real Prop. Servs. Corp. v. City of  Pasadena, supra, 25 Cal.App.4th at pp. 379-380.) The fact that Hardika is a  nonsignatory to the 2018 settlement agreement has already been well established,  (see Statement of Decision (1/19/24)), and this fact does not absolve her from  liability to Plaintiffs for attorneys’ fees.  As for Defendants’ third party beneficiary argument,  it is unavailing because whether Hardika was a third party beneficiary is not  dispositive here. As stated above, all that matters here is whether Hardika  would have been entitled to recover attorneys’ fees against Plaintiffs if she  had prevailed on the contract. (See Real Prop. Servs. Corp. v. City of  Pasadena, supra, 25 Cal.App.4th at pp. 379-380.) The issue of third party  beneficiary typically arises in cases involving a nonsignatory plaintiff. (See,  e.g., Id., supra, 25 Cal.App.4th at p. 382 [“Where a nonsignatory  plaintiff sues a signatory defendant in an action on a contract and the  signatory defendant prevails, the signatory defendant is entitled to attorney's  fees only if the nonsignatory plaintiff would have been entitled to its fees if  the plaintiff had prevailed.”]; Sessions Payroll Management, Inc. v. Noble  Const. Co., Inc. (2000) 84 Cal.App.4th 671, 677 [“When a contract contains  an attorney fee provision and a nonsignatory plaintiff brings a third party  beneficiary breach of contract action against a signatory defendant, can the  signatory defendant as prevailing party recover attorney fees from the  nonsignatory plaintiff? We conclude that under the circumstances, the trial  court erroneously awarded attorney fees to the defendant.”]) Plaintiffs are  signatories to the 2018 settlement agreement and did not sue as third party  beneficiaries. (See generally, SACC; Statement of Decision (1/19/24).)  As an aside, the Court also finds some of Plaintiff’s  arguments unavailing. While Defendants may not have raised this issue regarding  Hardika in their opposition to Plaintiffs’ motion for attorneys’ fees,  Plaintiffs cite no authority supporting their contention that Defendants  thereby waived the right to raise this issue. (See Plaintiffs’ Brief (5/17/24),  3:6-13.) Policy generally dictates that matters should be decided on their  merits rather than on procedural grounds. (Kneeter v. Mun. Ct.  (1973) 30 Cal.App.3d 633, 636 [“’Normally litigation should be disposed of on  its merits rather than on procedural grounds.’ [Citation.]”]) Additionally,  Defendants are not estopped from disputing Hardika’s liability for attorneys’  fees merely because they asserted they were entitled to it in their separate  complaint or answer to the SACC. (See Sessions Payroll Management, Inc. v.  Noble Const. Co., Inc., supra, 84 Cal.App.4th at p. 681.) Nevertheless, the  Court finds Plaintiffs are entitled to recover attorneys’ fees against Hardika  for the reasons set forth above.  Based on the foregoing, the Court OVERRULES Defendants’ objections  to Proposed Judgment After Trial.  CONCLUSION  The Court OVERRULES Defendants’ objections to Proposed Judgment  After Trial. The Court will sign the proposed amended judgment submitted on  April 29, 2024.               Plaintiffs are ordered to give  notice of the Court’s ruling within five calendar days of the Court’s order.