  Case Number:  23TRCV00438    Hearing Date:   October 15, 2024    Dept:  B 


Superior
  Court of California
County
  of Los Angeles
Southwest
  District
Torrance
  Dept. B




 
BRODY
  KLEINMAN, et al., 


 
 
 
Plaintiffs,


 
Case No.:
 


 
23TRCV00438




 
vs.


 


 
[Tentative]
  RULING
 




 
WE
  ROCK THE SPECTRUM KID’S GYM LLC,


 
 
 
Defendant.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing
Date:                          October
15, 2024
 
Moving
Parties:                      Petitioner Margaret Kleinman
Responding
Party:                  None
Petition to Approve
Compromise of Pending Action of Minor
 
            The Court considered the moving
papers.
RULING
The Court is inclined to grant petitioner’s
Petition to Approve Compromise of Pending Action on behalf of minor claimant
Brody Kleinman.
Pursuant to California Rules of
Court, Rule 7.952(a), petitioner and minor claimant are required to attend the
hearing on the petition but the Court finds good cause to dispense with the
appearance of the minor based on the amount in settlement and his age.
BACKGROUND
On February 14, 2023, plaintiffs
Brody Kleinman, a minor by and through his guardian ad litem, Margaret
Kleinman, and Margaret Kleinman filed a complaint against We Rock The Spectrum
Kid’s Gym LLC for premises liability, negligence, and NIED.  Plaintiffs allege that on October 23, 2021,
plaintiff Brody was participating in activities at defendant’s kid’s gym, for
which his mother had paid a fee for such use, when a large metal pole fell from
a gate, hitting Brody in the face, causing Brody to suffer serious injury and
permanent facial scarring.
On May 17, 2023, plaintiffs filed
amendments to the complaint designating Doe defendants.
On September 14, 2023, plaintiffs
filed amendments to the complaint designating We Rock The Spectrum, LLC (as Doe
4) and SBP Enterprises LLC (Doe 5) (which are the settling defendants).
On November 8, 2023, SBP
Enterprises LLC filed a cross-complaint against Margaret Kleinman and We Rock
The Spectrum Kid’s Gym for indemnity, declaratory relief, apportionment, and
breach of lease.
On July 18, 2024, plaintiff filed a
notice of settlement.
DISCUSSION
The Court has reviewed the petition
and finds the settlement terms to be fair and reasonable.  According to the petition (and as alleged),
claimant Brody (age 7) suffered a cut to his face when a large metal pole fell
from a gate when he was participating in activities at defendants’ gym.  He was treated in an emergency room on the
day of the incident and subsequently underwent scar revision surgery at a
plastic surgery center.  Claimant has
recovered completely from the effects of the injuries.  The parties settled for $37,500, and to be
distributed as follows:  $0 for medical
expenses, $9375 in attorney’s fees (25%), $3972 in attorney expenses, and the
balance to minor of $24,153, to be invested in a single-premium deferred
annuity subject to withdrawal only on authorization of the court.
The Court notes that it appears
that petitioner marked the incorrect box at para. 18(a)(3) because petitioner
is noting the same herein case number and not a case in probate court.  The correct box is para. 18(b)(3).  
In any event, the Court is inclined
to grant the petition.