 Case Number:  24TRCV01417    Hearing Date:   October 15, 2024    Dept:  B 


Superior
  Court of California
County
  of Los Angeles
Southwest
  District
Torrance
  Dept. B




 
NORETTA
  WRIGHT, 


 
 
 
Plaintiff,


 
Case No.:
 


 
24TRCV01417




 
vs.


 


 
[Tentative]
  RULING
 




 
THE
  AWK SEPARATE PROPERTY TRUST DATED DECEMBER 15, 2003, et al.,


 
 
 
Defendants.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing
Date:                          October 15,
2024
 
Moving Parties:                      (1), (2) Defendant Lyon
Stahl Investment Real Estate, Inc.; (3), (4) defendant Larson Harley
Responding
Party:                  None
(1)  
Demurrer to FAC
(2)  
Motion to Strike Punitive Damage
and Attorney Fee Claims 
(3)  
Demurrer to FAC
(4)  
Motion to Strike Punitive Damage
and Attorney Fee Claims
 
            The Court considered the moving papers.  No opposition was filed.
RULING
            The demurrer is SUSTAINED WITH TWENTY
DAYS LEAVE TO AMEND as to the entire FAC to allege facts supporting Plaintiff’s
claim that she has standing to assert any cause of action.
            The demurrer is SUSTAINED WITHOUT
LEAVE TO AMEND as to the first through fourth causes of action as to defendants
Lyon Stahl Investment Real Estate, Inc. and Larson Harley and SUSTAINED WITH
TWENTY DAYS LEAVE TO AMEND as to the fifth and sixth causes of action.
The motions to strike are MOOT as
to the fourth cause of action in light of the ruling on the demurrers.  The motions to strike are GRANTED WITH TWENTY
DAYS LEAVE TO AMEND as to paras. 46 and 51 and prayer for punitive damages and
prayer for attorney’s fees.
BACKGROUND
            On April 29, 2024, plaintiff Noretta
Wright (self-represented) filed a complaint against The Awk Separate Property
Trust Dated December 15, 2023, Alan Kapilow, Gerard Kabala, Larson Harley, Lyon
Stahl Investment Real Estate, Inc., and all persons claiming any legal or equitable
right, title, estate, lien, or interest in the property for (1) quiet title,
(2) breach of written contract, (3) specific performance, (4) declaratory
relief with request for temporary and permanent injunctive relief, (5) breach
of fiduciary duty, and (6) fraud.
            On May 7, 2024, plaintiff filed a
notice of lis pendens.
On July 18, 2024, plaintiff Noretta
Wright aka Noretta Gatewood (self-represented) filed a FAC.
LEGAL AUTHORITY
Demurrer
When considering demurrers, courts
read the allegations liberally and in context. 
Taylor v. City of Los Angeles
Dept. of Water and Power (2006) 144 Cal. App. 4th 1216, 1228.  “A demurrer tests the pleadings alone and not
the evidence or other extrinsic matters. 
Therefore, it lies only where the defects appear on the face of the
pleading or are judicially noticed.”  SKF Farms v. Superior Court (1984) 153
Cal. App. 3d 902, 905.  “The only issue
involved in a demurrer hearing is whether the complaint, as it stands,
unconnected with extraneous matters, states a cause of action.”  Hahn v.
Mirda (2007) 147 Cal. App. 4th 740, 747.
Strike
“The court may, upon a motion . . .
, or at any time in its discretion, and upon terms it deems proper:  (a) Strike any irrelevant, false, or improper
matter inserted in any pleading.  (b)
Strike out all or any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity
with the laws of this state, a court rule, or an order of the court.”  CCP §436(b).
            CCP §431.10 states:  “(a) A material allegation in a pleading is
one essential to the claim or defense and which could not be stricken from the
pleading without leaving it insufficient as to that claim or defense.  
(b) An immaterial allegation in a
pleading is any of the following:  (1) An
allegation that is not essential to the statement of a claim or defense.  (2) An allegation that is neither pertinent
to nor supported by an otherwise sufficient claim or defense.  (3) A demand for judgment requesting relief
not supported by the allegations of the complaint or cross-complaint.  
(c) An ‘immaterial allegation’
means ‘irrelevant matter’ as that term is used in Section 436.”
The grounds for moving to strike
must appear on the face of the pleading or by way of judicial notice.  CCP §437.
DISCUSSION
Demurrers
Defendants Lyon Stahl Investment
Real Estate, Inc. and Larson Harley demur to the First Amended Complaint and
each of the six causes of action on the grounds that they fail to allege
sufficient facts to constitute a cause of action, are uncertain, and that
plaintiff lacks standing.
The Court notes that although defendants
each filed a demurrer, the Court will address them together as they make the
same arguments and are represented by the same attorney.  (The Court suggests that in the future one demurrer
on behalf of multiple parties be filed.)
The FAC alleges that on October 20,
2023, plaintiff as the purchaser (with Construction Green Systems, Inc.) and
defendant, as the seller, entered into an agreement entitled “Sale and Purchase
Agreement.”  The purchase agreement was
signed and required plaintiff to send the earnest money and her three
properties to be used in support to fund the 46 units.  FAC, ¶14. 
During the negotiation process leading up to the purchase agreement,
defendant repeatedly was made aware that it was plaintiff’s intention to immediately
redevelop the property for a use other than its current use.  Id., ¶15. 
Defendants were aware that upon closing, plaintiff’s use of the property
would include imminently utilizing construction crews, architects, inspectors,
planners, and other persons necessary to accomplish the purposes for which
plaintiff was purchasing the property. 
Id., ¶16.  Pursuant to the
purchase agreement, plaintiff agreed to purchase from defendant four certain
parcels of land:  1. 530 West Olive
Street, Inglewood; 2. Venice Way, Inglewood; 3. 404 East Hyde Park Blvd.,
Inglewood; and 4. 717 North Market Street, Inglewood, for total purchase price
of $13 million.  The monthly income was
approximately $57,000.  Id., ¶17.  The purchase agreement included provisions
for payment of an earnest money refundable deposit of $389,550.  Plaintiff was required to send the earnest
money and her three properties to be used in support of funding the 46
units.  After the effective date,
plaintiff had sixty days to inspect the property.  Id., ¶18. 
Upon the expiration of the sixty-day inspection period and all other
contingencies and conditions being satisfied, the transaction would close.  At closing, plaintiff would be obliged to
present its agent along with reasonable evidence “reasonably satisfactory to
defendant Trust and the Title Company that the person executing the documents
on behalf of plaintiff has the full power to do so.”  Plaintiff would also have to present its
agent before a notary public to have the documents necessary for closing
notarized. Id., ¶19.
The FAC further alleges that the
real estate agent for both parties was Larson Harley.  Id., ¶¶1, 7. 
Defendant Lyon Stahl Investment Real Estate, Inc. was the seller’s and
buyer’s brokerage firm.  Id., ¶8.  The FAC further alleges that plaintiff was
ready, willing, and able to transfer the tender via wire transfer prior to closing.  The escrow, under the direction of Larson
Harley, refused to accept the previous loan documents (which Larson stated was
a bad loan) and the tender being wired because they changed the terms of the
original purchase contract and breached it. 
They eliminated one of the properties (717 North Market Street valued at
approximately $2 million).  Id., ¶20.  The escrow, under the direction of Harley,
transmitted a Seller’s Termination of the agreement falsely stating that the
Purchaser failed to meet the obligations of the agreement and close the
transaction by April 27, 2024.  However,
plaintiff was ready, willing, and able to tender payments.  Harley rejected the original loan papers and
totally changed the terms and conditions of the agreement when he eliminated
the Market Street property after the escrow held $389,550 at the time of
breach, 190 days had passed.  There was
promissory estoppel and detrimental reliance by Noretta Wright.  All parties’ actions substantiated plaintiff
Wright had standing.  Id., ¶21.  Defendant’s termination notice is invalid and
in breach of the purchase agreement. 
Plaintiff is not yet obligated to close the transaction because the closing
has been delayed on account of the on-going appraisals, which had not been
completed in a timely fashion.  All fees
for the appraisals were paid by plaintiff. 
Id., ¶22. 
            Standing
Defendants argue that plaintiff
does not have standing as she was not a party to the purchase agreement; and
thus, not the purchaser/buyer.  See FAC,
Exh. A (Retail Income Purchase Agreement). 
The purchase agreement indicates that Construction Green Systems, Inc.
(which plaintiff refers to in the FAC at para. 14 as a purchaser) is the
“Buyer.”  Defendants also argue that
plaintiff cannot represent a corporate entity in pro per.  See Gutierrez v. G & M Oil Co.
(2010) 184 Cal. App. 4th 551, 564 (citation omitted) (“[A]
corporation must be represented in court by an attorney.  A corporation cannot appear in court by an
officer who is not an attorney and it cannot appear in propria persona.”).
The Court finds that the
allegations do not show that plaintiff has standing as she is not a party to
the purchase agreement that she is suing upon. 
Plaintiff’s allegations at para. 21 that “[a]ll parties actions
substantiated Noretta Wright had standing” is conclusory and insufficient.
The Court also agrees that Plaintiff
Noretta Wright is not an attorney and that she therefore may not represent a
corporate entity.
The demurrer to the FAC is
SUSTAINED WITH LEAVE TO AMEND.
 
            First
cause of action for quiet title
The elements of an action to quiet
title include:  (1) description of the
property; (2) plaintiff’s title or interest and the basis; (3) defendant’s
asserting adverse claim or antagonistic property interest; (4) date as of which
the determination is sought; and (4) prayer for determination of title.  CCP §761.020; see Lucas v. Sweet
(1956) 47 Cal.2d 20, 22 (sufficient to plead that plaintiff is the owner of
described property, defendant wrongfully claims interest, unless complaint
reveals a defect in title); Dreher v. Rohrmoser¿(1955) 134 Cal.App.2d
196, 198 (complainants can specifically plead the invalidity of defendants’
legal title and courts may enter such judgment as the equities require).  A complaint to quiet title must be verified.  Lewis v. Superior Court (1994) 30 Cal.
App. 4th 1850, 1866.
Defendants assert that they were
not a party to the purchase agreement. 
See FAC, Exh. A.  The “Buyer” is
identified as Construction Green Systems, Inc. and the “Sellers” are identified
as Alan Kapilow and Gerard Kabala. 
Moving defendant Lyon Stahl Investment Real Estate, Inc. is identified
as the seller’s and buyer’s brokerage firm and moving defendant Larson Harley
is identified as the sellers’ and buyer’s agent.  As such, defendants argue, they do not have
an adverse interest in the property.
The Court finds that the
allegations are insufficient and do not meet the elements.  The allegations do not show that moving
defendants are asserting an adverse claim or property interest or the date as
of which the termination is sought or plaintiff’s property interest as she
alleges the escrow was terminated.  There
is no opposition, and plaintiff has not explained how plaintiff can amend
sufficiently.
The demurrer is SUSTAINED WITHOUT
LEAVE TO AMEND.
 
            Second
cause of action for breach of written contract
The FAC alleges that plaintiff and
defendant entered a specifically enforceable contract that is sufficiently
certain in its terms; namely, plaintiff and defendant entered the purchase agreement
by which plaintiff agreed to purchase defendant’s property for $13
million.  The parties’ performance was
delayed and hindered when the broker and real estate agent for both parties
changed the terms and conditions of the agreement.  FAC, ¶29. 
Plaintiff provided adequate consideration under the purchase agreement.  Id., ¶30. 
Plaintiff has performed all its obligations and covenants under the purchase
agreement other than those obligations and covenants that were delayed,
hindered, and excused by the change and elimination of the fourth property by
the broker.  Id., ¶31.  Defendant has breached the purchase agreement
by signing a cancellation of Escrow Agreement, which falsely states that
plaintiff will not perform the acts required at closing.  Id., ¶32.
As argued under the first cause of
action, defendants are not parties to the purchase agreement and thus they
cannot breach it.
The Court finds that the
allegations are insufficient as they do not meet the elements as moving
defendants cannot be liable for breach of a contract to which they are not a
party.  
            The demurrer is SUSTAINED WITHOUT
LEAVE TO AMEND.
 
Third cause of action for specific
performance
To obtain specific performance
after a breach of contract, a plaintiff must generally show: “(1) the
inadequacy of his legal remedy; (2) an underlying contract that is both
reasonable and supported by adequate consideration; (3) the existence of a
mutuality of remedies; (4) contractual terms which are sufficiently definite to
enable the court to know what it is to enforce; and (5) a substantial
similarity of the requested performance to that promised in the contract.”  Real Estate Analytics, LLC v. Vallas (2008)
160 Cal. App. 4th 463, 472.
The FAC alleges that plaintiff
prays that the Court adjudicate the rights, interests, duties and obligations
of plaintiff and defendant under the purchase agreement, and that the Court
determine that plaintiff was excused from performance under the purchase agreement
while such performance was rendered impossible during the agent’s change of
terms by eliminating the fourth Market Street property or, in the alternative,
impractical due to the removal of the $2 million property, and that the
purchase agreement remained in full force and effect and binding upon the
parties pending resolution of the quiet title and breach of contract
issues.  Complaint, ¶36.
            Defendants argue the same as above
that they were not parties to the purchase agreement and, thus, the claim
cannot be maintained against defendants because specific performance is an
equitable remedy for a breach of contract.
            The Court finds that the allegations
are insufficient as there is no underlying contract between plaintiff and
moving defendants or inadequacy of remedy.
The demurrer is SUSTAINED WITHOUT
LEAVE TO AMEND.
 
Fourth cause of action for
declaratory relief with request for temporary and permanent injunctive relief
The claim requires “two essential
elements:  ‘(1) a proper subject of
declaratory relief, and (2) an actual controversy involving justiciable
questions relating to [plaintiff’s] rights or obligations.’”  Wilson & Wilson v. City Council of
Redwood City (2011) 191 Cal. App. 4th 1559, 1582 (citation omitted).
The FAC alleges that as a direct
and proximate cause of Larson’s conduct, specifically refusing to communicate
with plaintiff and trying to eliminate the Market Street property, plaintiff
has been specially damaged in that defendant will gain secret profits and
engaged in wrongs enumerated herein. 
FAC, ¶39.
Defendants argue that this cause of
action is ambiguous and uncertain as it purports to assert multiple causes of
action for declaratory relief and injunction. 
Further, defendants argue, there is no actual controversy with moving
defendants that would be subject to a judicial declaration.  They were not parties to the purchase
agreement and defendants do not have determinable rights or obligations under
that agreement.  Also, defendants are not
subject to any injunction as there is nothing to restrain, enjoin, or requires
defendants to do or a showing of an inadequate remedy.
The Court finds that plaintiff
improperly combined two causes of action and the allegations are insufficient
as to both for the reasons stated by defendants.
The demurrer is SUSTAINED WITHOUT
LEAVE TO AMEND. 
 
Fifth cause of action for breach of
fiduciary duty
“‘The elements of a claim for
breach of fiduciary duty are (1) the existence of a fiduciary 
relationship,
(2) its breach, and (3) damage proximately caused by that breach.’” O'Neal
v. 
Stanislaus
County Employees' Retirement Assn.
(2017) 8 Cal. App. 5th 1184, 1215 (citation omitted). 
The FAC alleges that at the time in
October 2023, when plaintiff signed the purchase agreement, Larson Harley
hindered, and delayed the Closing Process and attempted to cancel the
transaction (by eliminating the Market Street property) so he could list the
four properties at a higher price.  He
conceived a secret plan to defraud plaintiff and to violate his
responsibilities as a broker for his profit, of which plaintiff was totally
unaware.  Harley carried out his plan to
defraud plaintiff by claiming he had eliminated the Market Street
property.  FAC, ¶43.
            Defendants argue that plaintiff does
not allege a fiduciary duty and/or breach. 
Defendants assert that the claim is predicated upon the alleged attempt
to “cancel the transaction” but a real estate broker and agent were not parties
to the purchase agreement and thus could not cancel it.  Defendants also contend that plaintiff has
not alleged damages because the claim alleges that defendants “will have gained
secret profits” but such profits are not damages suffered by plaintiff.
            The Court finds that the allegations
are insufficient as they do not meet the elements.
            The demurrer is SUSTAINED WITH LEAVE
TO AMEND.
 
Sixth cause of action for fraud
The
elements of fraud are:  “(a)
misrepresentation (false representation, concealment, or nondisclosure); (b)
knowledge of falsity (or ‘scienter’); (c) intent to defraud, i.e., to induce
reliance; (d) justifiable reliance; and (e) resulting damage.”  Charnay v. Cobert (2006) 145
Cal.App.4th 170, 184 (citation omitted). 
In California, fraud, including negligent misrepresentation, must be
pled with specificity.  Small v. Fritz
Companies, Inc. (2003) 30 Cal.4th 167, 184. 
“The particularity requirement demands that a plaintiff plead facts
which ‘show how, when, where, to whom, and by what means the representations
were tendered.’”  Cansino v. Bank of
America (2014) 224 Cal. App. 4th 1462, 1469 (citation omitted). 
            The FAC alleges that at the time in
October 2023, when plaintiff signed the purchase agreement, Larson Harley
hindered, and delayed the Closing Process and attempted to cancel the
transaction (by eliminating the Market Street property) so he could list the
four properties at a higher price.  He
conceived a secret plan to defraud plaintiff and to violate his
responsibilities as a broker for his profit, of which plaintiff was totally
unaware.  Harley carried out his plan to
defraud plaintiff by claiming he had eliminated the Market Street property.  FAC, ¶48.
            Defendants argue that the claim is
predicated on the alleged attempt to “cancel the transaction” but as real
estate agents/brokers defendants are not parties to the purchase agreement and
thus could not cancel it.  Defendants
further argue that the claim is not pled with the requisite particularity.
            The Court finds that the allegations
are insufficient to constitute a cause of action for fraud.  Plaintiff fails to plead with
particularity.  Plaintiff also does not
allege a misrepresentation, or
knowledge, or intent to default, or justifiable reliance.
            The
demurrer is SUSTAINED WITH LEAVE TO AMEND. 
 
Motion to Strike
Defendant requests that the Court
strike paras. 41 (under the fourth cause of action), 46 (under the fifth cause
of action), and 51 (under the fifth cause of action) and prayer for punitive
damages and for attorney’s fees. 
Civil Code §3294 authorizes the
recovery of punitive damages in non-contract cases where “the defendant has
been guilty of oppression, fraud, or malice . . . .”  The Court in Taylor v. Superior Court
(1979) 24 Cal.3d 890, 894-95, found that “[s]omething more than the mere
commission of a tort is always required for punitive damages.  There must be circumstances of aggravation or
outrage, such as spite or ‘malice,’ or a fraudulent or evil motive on the part
of the defendant, or such a conscious and deliberate disregard of the interests
of others that his conduct may be called willful or wanton.” 
            The Court finds that the allegations
are insufficient to support a claim for punitive damages as the allegations do
not show oppression, fraud, or malice. 
See also ruling on demurrers as to the fifth and sixth causes of
action.  
            As for attorney’s fees, there is no
contractual or statutory basis as plaintiff has not alleged sufficiently that
she has standing under the purchase agreement.
            The motions to strike are MOOT as to
the fourth cause of action in light of the ruling on the demurrers.  The motions to strike are GRANTED WITH LEAVE
TO AMEND as to paras. 46 and 51 and prayers for punitive damages and for
attorney’s fees.
 
ORDER

            The demurrers are SUSTAINED WITH TWENTY
DAYS LEAVE TO AMEND AS TO THE ENTIRE FIRST AMENDED COMPLAINT to allege facts
supporting Plaintiff’s claim that she has standing to assert any cause of
action.
The demurrers are SUSTAINED WITHOUT
LEAVE TO AMEND as to the first through fourth causes of action as to defendants
Lyon Stahl Investment Real Estate, Inc. and Larson Harley and SUSTAINED WITH
TWENTY DAYS LEAVE TO AMEND as to the fifth and sixth causes of action.
The motions to strike are MOOT as
to the fourth cause of action in light of the ruling on the demurrers.  The motions to strike are GRANTED WITH TWENTY
DAYS LEAVE TO AMEND as to paras. 46 and 51 and prayers for punitive damages and
for attorney’s fees.
            Moving defendants are ordered to
give notice of ruling.