 Case Number:  23NWCV03926    Hearing Date:   November 20, 2024    Dept:  C ANDREW
PASMANT, et al. vs. BREA WHITTIER LLC, et al.
CASE NO.:  23NWCV03926
HEARING:  11/20/2024
 
#4
TENTATIVE ORDER
 
Defendant Brea Whittier LLC dba Brookdale Central Whittier’s
Motion to Compel Arbitration and Stay Proceedings is DENIED.
 
Moving parties to give notice. 
 
Defendant Brea Whittier LLC dba Brookdale Central Whittier moves
to compel arbitration. 
 
Background 
 
On December 4, 2023, Andrew Pasmant filed his Complaint. On
April 19, 2024, Plaintiffs Andrew Pasmant, Robert Pasmant, Ronald Pasmant, and
Yvonne Moreno, individually and as Successors-in Interest to Gilberto Pasmant
(“Plaintiffs”) filed the operative First Amended Complaint against Defendants Brea
Whittier LLC dba Brookdale Central Whittier (“Brookdale”), Eldercare Corp. dba
Echo Hospice of Orange County (“Echo”), SoCal Post Acute Holdings, LLC dba
Social Post-Acute Care (“SoCal”), and Does 1 through 50, inclusive, (collectively,
“Defendants”) alleging (1) elder abuse/neglect against all defendants; (2) professional
negligence against all defendants; (3) wrongful death against all defendants;
(4) negligent infliction of emotional distress against all defendants; and (5)
violation of patient’s rights against Defendant SoCal.
 
Specifically, Plaintiffs allege that Decedent Gilberto
Pasmant (“Decedent”) was a resident of Brookdale from June 2022 through May
2023, a patient of Echo from June 2022 to January 2023, and a patient of SoCal
from May 2023 through July 27, 2023. (First Amended Complaint, ¶ 6.) During the
times of Decedent’s residence at these facilities, Plaintiffs allege that
Decedent was mentally incapacitated due to dementia and Alzheimer’s disease. (Id.)
Plaintiffs allege that Defendants knowingly failed to provide decedent with
needed aid, resulting in injuries and Decedent’s death on July 27, 2023. (Id.,
¶¶ 13, 24.)
 
On June 14, 2024, SoCal filed their answer. 
 
On June 18, 2024, Echo filed their answer. 
 
On July 15, 2024, Brookdale filed the instant motion. 
 
On November 7, 2024, Plaintiffs filed their opposition.
 
As of
November 14, 2024, Brookdale has not filed a reply.
 
Motion to Compel Arbitration
 
Timeliness
 
CCP § 1005(b) provides that “all moving and supporting
papers shall be served and filed at least 16 court days before the hearing. The
moving and supporting papers served shall be a copy of the papers filed or to
be filed with the court. However, if the notice is served by mail, the required
16-day period of notice before the hearing shall be increased by five calendar
days if the place of mailing and the place of address are within the State of
California.” In addition, “[p]roof of service of the moving papers must be
filed no later than five court days before the time appointed for the
hearing.”  (Cal. Rules of Court, Rule
3.1300(c).)  
 
CCP § 1005(b) provides that “all papers opposing a motion so
noticed shall be filed with the court and a copy served on each party at least
nine court days, and all reply papers at least five court days before the
hearing.”
 
Here, the moving papers are timely as they were filed on
July 15, 2024, which is at least 16 days before the November 20, 2024, hearing.
However, the opposition is untimely, as it was filed on November 7, 2024, which
is less than nine court days before the hearing. The Court admonishes
Plaintiffs to ensure timely filings going forward but will exercise its
discretion to consider the Opposition, as the delay was not substantial nor
prejudicial. 


Evidentiary Objections
 
Plaintiffs object to the paragraphs
1 through 6 of Molly M. Loy’s Declaration and Exhibits A through E attached
thereto on the grounds that they lack foundation under Evidence Code section
702. Plaintiffs contend that Molly Loy’s conclusory statements are inadequate
as the requirement is “not that the declarant recite the conclusion that he can
competently testify but that he allege facts showing his competence” per Roy
Bros. Drilling Co. v. Jones (1981) 123 Cal.App.3d 175, 182. Plaintiffs
argue that Molly Loy makes no claim to personally handling negotiation of the agreements
in question or any of the documents Brookdale proffers.
 
In Roy,
the court was addressing the standard for summary judgment, specifically the
requirement under Code of Civil Procedure section 437 subd. (c) that
“[s]upporting and opposing affidavits or declarations shall be made by any
person on personal knowledge, shall set forth admissible evidence, and shall
show affirmatively that the affiant is competent to testify to the matters
stated therein.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437(c).)
 
Unlike in Roy,
the Court here is not deciding a motion for summary judgment, but rather a
motion to compel arbitration. In deciding a motion to compel arbitration, the
moving party can carry its initial burden to make a “prima facie showing of the
existence of a written arbitration agreement...by complying with Rule 3.1330.” (Ramirez
v. Golden Queen Mining Co., LLC (2024) 102 Cal. App. 5th 821, 832.) Per
Rule 3.1330, the petition “must state, in addition to other required
allegations, the provisions of the written agreement and the paragraph that
provides for arbitration. The provisions must be stated verbatim or a copy must
be physically or electronically attached to the petition and incorporated by
reference.” 
 
Here, Molly
Loy’s Declaration meets the requirements of 3.1330. Thus, Plaintiffs’ objection
to the declaration for lacking foundation is OVERRULED. 
 
Plaintiffs also
object to the purported arbitration agreement contained in Exhibit A to the Loy
Declaration for lack of foundation and failure to properly authenticate. However,
“[t]he party seeking arbitration ‘need not follow the normal procedures of
document authentication and need only allege the existence of an agreement and
support the allegation as provided in rule [3.1330].’” (Ramirez, supra, 102
Cal.App.5th at 831.) Here, Brookdale does not need to follow normal
authentication procedures, and it properly alleged the existence of an
agreement and supported the allegation per Rule 3.1330. Thus, Plaintiffs’
objection to the arbitration agreement for lack of foundation and failure to
authenticate is OVERRULED. 
 
Plaintiffs also
object to the purported arbitration agreement as inadmissible hearsay under
Evidence Code section 1271. Here, it would be nonsensical for a prima facie
showing under Rule 3.1330 to require provisions of the purported arbitration agreement
to be stated verbatim in the petition or a copy to be attached to the petition,
only for the Court to be prevented from considering the agreement on the basis
of hearsay. If courts held otherwise, no motion to compel arbitration would
ever be granted as a prima facie showing of the existence of an arbitration
agreement could never be made. Thus, Plaintiffs’ objection to the arbitration
agreement as inadmissible hearsay is OVERRULED. 
Legal Standard 
 
Under both the Federal Arbitration Act and California law,
arbitration agreements are valid, irrevocable, and enforceable, except on such
grounds that exist at law or equity for voiding a contract.  (Winter v.
Window Fashions Professions, Inc. (2008) 166 Cal.App.4th 943, 947.) 
In ruling on a motion to compel arbitration, the court must first determine
whether the parties actually agreed to arbitrate the dispute, and general
principles of California contract law help guide the court in making this
determination. (Mendez v. Mid-Wilshire Health Care Center (2013) 220
Cal.App.4th 534, 541.)  “With respect to the moving party’s burden to
provide evidence of the existence of an agreement to arbitrate, it is generally
sufficient for that party to present a copy of the contract to the
court.”  (Baker v. Italian Maple Holdings, LLC (2017) 13
Cal.App.5th 1152, 1160.)   
 
The right to compel arbitration exists unless the court
finds that the right has been waived by a party’s conduct, other grounds exist
for revocation of the agreement, or where a pending court action arising out of
the same transaction creates the possibility of conflicting rulings on a common
issue of law or fact. (Code Civ. Proc., § 1281.2(a)-(c).)
 
Discussion
 
Applicability
of the Federal Arbitration Act (“FAA”)
 
“The party
seeking to enforce an arbitration agreement has the burden of showing FAA
preemption.” (Lane v. Francis Capital Mgmt. LLC (2014) 224 Cal.App.4th
676, 684.) California law provides that parties may expressly designate that
any arbitration proceeding should move forward under the FAA's procedural
provisions rather than under state procedural law. (Cronus Investments, Inc.
v. Concierge Services (2005) 35 Cal. 4th 376, 394). Otherwise, the FAA
provides for enforcement of arbitration provisions in any “‘contract evidencing
a transaction involving commerce.’ (9 USC § 2.)” (Allied-Bruce Terminix
Companies, Inc. v. Dobson (1995) 513 U.S. 265, 277.) Accordingly,
“[t]he party asserting the FAA bears the burden to show it applies by
presenting evidence establishing the contract with the arbitration provision
has a substantial relationship to interstate commerce[.]” (Carbajal v.
CWPSC, Inc. (2016) 245 Cal.App.4th 227, 234, [italics added].) 
Moreover, as noted above, California contract law applies to the validity of
the arbitration agreement.  (Winter, supra, 166 Cal.App.4th at p.
947.)  
 
Here, Brookdale argues
that the FAA governs this dispute because the Agreement involves interstate
commerce. To support their argument, Brookdale cites to Scott v. Yoho (2016)
248 Cal.App.4th 392. In Scott, an arbitration agreement between a
patient and a medical practice was found to be governed by the FAA because the
medical practice bore on interstate commerce in a substantial way,
notwithstanding the fact that the procedure at issue was conducted in
California by a state licensed doctor on an in-state patient. (Id., at
402.) The Scott court found that the following facts created a
sufficient nexus with interstate commerce: “[a]pproximately 20 percent of the
medical supplies were shipped from out of state. Dr. Yoho declared some of the
materials used for Ms. Parker's liposuction procedure originated from outside
California. Defendants advertised on the internet and communicated with
out-of-state patients by telephone, mail and e-mail. About 5 percent of
defendants' patients are from outside the state. Further, the medical practice
has contacts with out-of-state companies.” (Id., at 401–02.) 
 
Brookdale argues
that the Agreement contains a Pharmacy Services Agreement which describes
medications Brookdale obtained from other states. (Loy Decl., Ex. A.) However,
the Pharmacy Services Agreement does not mention that such medications were
obtained from other states, and Brookdale provides no other evidence to support
this assertion. Brookdale also asserts that they obtained supplies and medical
equipment from vendors outside of California, accepted residents from outside
of California, and advertised on the internet, but similarly fail to provide
evidence to support these assertions. 
 
Conversely, the Agreement explicitly states that the
California Code of Civil Procedure 1280 et seq. shall govern the
procedure of the Agreement, and that nothing in the Agreement is to be construed
to contradict any applicable California statutory or regulatory grievance. (Loy
Decl., Ex. A.) The Agreement consistently mentions California law but makes no
mention of the FAA or Federal law preempting California law. 
 
Overall,
Brookdale fails to meet their burden to establish that the FAA governs the purported
Agreement. Thus, California law governs. 
 
Existence of a Valid Arbitration Agreement
 
The party moving to compel arbitration must establish the
existence of a written arbitration agreement between the parties. (Code of Civ.
Proc. § 1281.2.)  “With respect to the
moving party's burden to provide evidence of the existence of an agreement to
arbitrate, it is generally sufficient for that party to present a copy of the
contract to the court. (See Condee v. Longwood Management Corp. (2001)
88 Cal.App.4th 215, 218; see also Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1330 [“A petition
to compel arbitration or to stay proceedings pursuant to Code of Civil
Procedure sections 1281.2 and 1281.4 must state, in addition to other required
allegations, the provisions of the written agreement and the paragraph that
provides for arbitration. The provisions must be stated verbatim or a copy must
be physically or electronically attached to the petition and incorporated by
reference”].) Once such a document is presented to the court, the burden shifts
to the party opposing the motion to compel, who may present any challenges to
the enforcement of the agreement and evidence in support of those challenges.
[Citation]” (Baker v. Italian Maple Holdings, LLC (2017) 13 Cal.App.5th
1152, 1160.) 
 
Here, Brookdale seeks to compel arbitration of Plaintiffs’
claims based on a Residency Agreement that includes an arbitration agreement. In
support of the existence of an arbitration agreement, Brookdale attached to the
Motion a copy of the Residency Agreement, which contains an Agreement to
Arbitrate (“the Agreement”). (Loy Decl., ¶ 2, Ex. A.) 
 
The pertinent provision reads as follows: 
 
A. ARBITRATION. 
1. Any and all
claims or controversies arising out of, or in any way relating to, this
Agreement or your stay at the Community, excluding any action for eviction, and
including disputes regarding interpretation of this Agreement, whether arising
out of State or Federal law, whether existing or arising in the future, whether
for statutory, compensatory or punitive damages and whether sounding in breach
of contract, tort or breach of statutory duties, irrespective of the basis for
the duty or the legal theories upon which the claim is asserted, shall be
submitted to binding arbitration, as provided below, and shall not be filed in
a court of law. The parties to this Agreement further understand that a jury
will not decide their case. The California Code of Civil Procedure 1280 et seq.
concerning arbitration shall govern the procedure, except if inconsistent with
this Arbitration Provision or expressly stated otherwise in this Agreement.
Further, nothing in this Agreement is to be construed to contradict any applicable
California statutory or regulatory grievance, challenge or mediation procedure.
Any party who demands arbitration must do so for all claims or controversies
that are known, or· reasonably should have been known, by the date of the
demand for arbitration, and if learned of during the course of the arbitration
proceeding shall amend the claims or controversies to reflect the same. All
current damages and reasonably foreseeable damages arising out of such claims
or controversies shall also be incorporated into the initial demand or
amendment thereto.
 
(Loy Decl., Ex. A.)
 
The Agreement, executed on October 7, 2016, appears to be
signed by the Decedent, Andrew Pasmant as Decedent’s Power of Attorney, and
Brookdale. (Loy Decl., Ex. A.) This evidence establishes the existence of a
valid arbitration agreement between Plaintiffs and Brookdale. Thus, Brookdale
has met their burden to prove the existence of an arbitration agreement binding
Plaintiffs. The burden now shifts to Plaintiffs to challenge
enforceability.   
 
Defenses
to Enforcement – Violation of Health & Safety Code Section 1599.81
 
Health & Safety Code section 1599.81 states: 
 
(a) 
All contracts of admission that contain an arbitration clause shall
clearly indicate that agreement to arbitration is not a precondition for
medical treatment or for admission to the facility.
(b) 
All arbitration clauses shall be included on a form separate from the
rest of the admission contract. This attachment shall contain space for the
signature of any applicant who agrees to arbitration of disputes.
(c) 
On the attachments, clauses referring to arbitration of medical
malpractice claims, as provided for under Section 1295 of the Code of Civil
Procedure, shall be clearly separated from other arbitration clauses, and
separate signatures shall be required for each clause.
(d) 
In the event the contract contains an arbitration clause, the contract
attachment pertaining to arbitration shall contain notice that under Section
1430, the patient may not waive his or her ability to sue for violation of the
Patient’s Bill of Rights.
 
(Health & Safety Code section 1599.81.)
 
As a preliminary matter, the Court notes that in Valley
View Health Care, Inc. v. Chapman (2014) 992 F.Supp.2d 1016, 1041, Section
1599.81 subdivision (d) was found to be preempted by the Federal Arbitration
Act to the extent that it barred arbitration of claims under California
Patient's Bill of Rights. However, the remaining text or effect of subdivisions
(a)-(c) were not preempted. Further, as the FAA does not govern the instant
arbitration agreement, this ruling does not affect this Court’s decision here.
 
Plaintiffs argue that the purported agreement violates the
above provisions as it is not contained on a “separate form” or “attachment”
with its own separate “space” for “signature,” but rather buried in section V
with a stray clause tucked into section VI, subsection A. Plaintiffs contend
that these deficiencies render the agreement unenforceable. In support of this
assertion, Plaintiffs cite the following cases: Malek v. Blue Cross of
California (2004) 121 Cal.App.4th 44, 69; Medeiros v. Superior Court (2007)
146 Cal.App.4th 1008, 1015; and Zembsch v. Superior Court (2006) 146
Cal.App.4th 153, 168.
 
In Malek, the court found
that a health insurer’s failure to comply with Health & Safety Code Section
1363.1, which requires certain disclosures and conditions when binding
arbitration is included as a contract term in a health care service plan, rendered
the arbitration agreement unenforceable. (Malek, supra, 121 Cal.App.4th
at 62.) Specifically, Section 1363.1, subdivision (d), required that the
arbitration disclosure in Malek be “displayed immediately before the
signature line,” and it was not. (Id.) The court noted that “the
arbitration disclosure requirements of Section 1363.1 are mandatory.” (Id.
at 63.) The Malek court found that “[t]he very purpose of the disclosure
requirement of section 1363.1 is to ensure that the parties agree to be bound
to contractual arbitration. It would be absurd to impose an administrative
penalty on a health service plan provider for failure to comply with the
arbitration disclosure requirements but permit arbitration to go forward. Under
those circumstances, there would be no consent to arbitrate.” (Id. at
69.) 
 
Similarly, in Zembsch, the
court held that arbitration provisions in a health insurer’s health care
service plan were unenforceable for failure to comply with Health & Safety
Code Section 1363.1’s statutory disclosure requirements. (Zembsch, supra,
146 Cal.App.4th at 168.) 
 
Additionally, in Madeiros,
the court held that arbitration provisions in an employer’s health benefits
election agreement and evidence of coverage form were unenforceable for failure
to comply with Health & Safety Code Section 1363.1’s statutory disclosure
requirements. (Medeiros, supra, 146 Cal.App.4th at 1015.)
 
Plaintiffs argue that based on the
cases discussed above, the instant arbitration agreement, although it does not
fall under Health & Safety Code Section 1363.1, is also unenforceable for
failure to comply with statutory requirements of Health & Safety Code
section 1599.81. Health & Safety Code Section 1363.1, entitled “Binding
arbitration included as contract term; required disclosures and conditions,”
states as follows: 
 
Any health care
service plan that includes terms that require binding arbitration to settle
disputes and that restrict, or provide for a waiver of, the right to a jury
trial shall include, in clear and understandable language, a disclosure that
meets all of the following conditions:
 
(a)  The
disclosure shall clearly state whether the plan uses binding arbitration to
settle disputes, including specifically whether the plan uses binding
arbitration to settle claims of medical malpractice.
 
(b)  The
disclosure shall appear as a separate article in the agreement issued to the
employer group or individual subscriber and shall be prominently displayed on
the enrollment form signed by each subscriber or enrollee.
 
(c)  
The disclosure shall clearly state whether the
subscriber or enrollee is waiving his or her right to a jury trial for medical
malpractice, other disputes relating to the delivery of service under the plan,
or both, and shall be substantially expressed in the wording provided in
subdivision (a) of Section 1295 of the Code of Civil Procedure.
 
(d)  In
any contract or enrollment agreement for a health care service plan, the
disclosure required by this section shall be displayed immediately before the
signature line provided for the representative of the group contracting with a
health care service plan and immediately before the signature line provided for
the individual enrolling in the health care service plan.
 
(Health & Safety Code Section
1363.1.)
 
Here, the agreement violates
section 1599.81 subdivision (b) because the arbitration clauses are not
included on a form separate from the rest of the admission contract. Instead,
the arbitration clauses are contained on pages 9-11 of the admission contract,
the majority of which are contained in Section V. (Loy Decl., Ex. A.) Another
clause entitled “Waiver of Trial by Jury,” which appears to be concerning
arbitration, is listed under Section VI entitled “Miscellaneous.” Thus, the
agreement violates section 1599.81 subdivision (b).
 
“Generally speaking, ‘a contract
made in violation of a regulatory statute is void,’ ... [however,] ‘the rule is
not an inflexible one to be applied in its fullest rigor under any and all
circumstances.’” (Malek, supra,121 Cal.App.4th at 70, citing Arya
Group, Inc. v. Cher (2000) 77 Cal.App.4th 610, 615.) “In each case, the
extent of enforceability and the kind of remedy granted depend upon a variety
of factors, including the policy of the transgressed law, the kind of
illegality and the particular facts.” (Id.) 
 
As to the first consideration
regarding policy, the Malek court stated that “the policy of section
1363.1 is to protect health care consumers from the consequences of unknowingly
waiving their right to a jury trial in a dispute with their health care service
plan.” (Malek, supra,121 Cal.App.4th at 71.) Here, there is no authority
provided by Plaintiffs which discusses the policy of Health & Safety Code
section 1599.81. However, based on the similar provisions in sections 1363.1
and 1599.81, it logically follows that the policy behind section 1599.81 is
likely to protect inhabitants of long-term health care facilities from
unknowingly waiving their right to a jury trial in a dispute with the long-term
health care facility. 
 
As to the second consideration
regarding illegality, the Malek court found that “although the violation
of section 1363.1 does not involve the kind of illegality that automatically
renders an agreement void, nevertheless, the parties were not equally at fault.
Blue Cross knew or should have known of the disclosure requirements under
section 1363.1.” (Malek, supra,121 Cal.App.4th at 71.) Here, there does
not appear to be any illegality. However, like the insurer in Malek,
Brookdale knew or should have known of the disclosure requirements under
section 1599.81. 


As to the third consideration regarding the facts of the
case, the Malek court found that “[a]s a health care service plan
provider, Blue Cross should have been aware that section 1363.1 provided
specific disclosure requirements. In this factual context, enforcing the
arbitration provision would defeat the policy of section 1363.1.” (Malek,
supra,121 Cal.App.4th at 71-72.) Here, Brookdale should have been aware
that section 1599.81 provided specific disclosure requirements, such that
enforcing the arbitration provision would defeat the policy of section 1599.81.

 
Therefore, as a contract made in
violation of a regulatory statute is generally void and the factors regarding
the extent of enforceability go towards unenforceability here, the Agreement’s
deficiencies under section 1599.81 render the Agreement unenforceable per Malek
v. Blue Cross of California (2004) 121 Cal.App.4th 44, 70.
 
 
 
Defenses
to Enforcement – Code of Civil Procedure Section 1281.2
 
Code of Civil Procedure section 1281.2 provides in relevant
part that:  
  
On petition of a party to an
arbitration agreement alleging the existence of a written agreement to
arbitrate a controversy and that a party to the agreement refuses to arbitrate
that controversy, the court shall order the petitioner and the respondent to
arbitrate the controversy if it determines that an agreement to arbitrate the
controversy exists, unless it determines that:  
. . .   
(c)      A party to the arbitration agreement is also a party to a
pending court action or special proceeding with a third party, arising out of
the same transaction or series of related transactions and there is a
possibility of conflicting rulings on a common issue of law or fact.  
 
(CCP § 1281.2)  
 
“[A] trial court must decide whether section 1281.2(c)
applies based only on the three conditions identified in that
subdivision.”  (Acquire II, Ltd. v. Colton Real Estate Group (2013)
213 Cal.App.4th 959, 978.)  The last paragraph of section 1281.2 sets
forth four options available to the Court when the Court makes a finding that
there is a possibility of conflicting rulings:  
  
If the court determines that a
party to the arbitration is also a party to litigation in a pending court
action or special proceeding with a third party as set forth under subdivision
(c), the court   
  
(1)      may refuse to enforce the arbitration agreement and may order
intervention or joinder of all parties in a single action or special
proceeding;   
(2)      may order intervention or joinder as to all or only certain
issues;   
(3)      may order arbitration among the parties who have agreed to
arbitration and stay the pending court action or special proceeding pending the
outcome of the arbitration proceeding; or   
(4)      may stay arbitration pending the outcome of the court action or
special proceeding.  
 
(CCP § 1281.2.)  
 
“Section 1281.2(c)'s primary purpose is to avoid conflicting
rulings, not further judicial economy.”  (Acquire II, Ltd., supra,
213 Cal.App.4th at p.978; see also Whaley v. Sony Computer Entertainment
America, Inc. (2004) 121 Cal.App.4th 479, 488 [“the statute was intended
primarily to prevent conflicting rulings resulting from arbitration proceedings
and other related litigation arising out of the same transaction.”].) 
 
Here, Plaintiffs cite to section 1281.2 and state that “there
are multiple co-defendants and plaintiffs” in this matter. However, outside of
this conclusory statement, Plaintiffs fail to make any argument to establish
that a party to the arbitration agreement is also a party to a pending court
action or special proceeding with a third party, arising out of the same
transaction or series of related transactions and there is a possibility of
conflicting rulings on a common issue of law or fact. Thus, Plaintiffs
fail to establish that the arbitration agreement is unenforceable under Code of
Civil Procedure section 1281.2. 
 
Defenses
to Enforcement – Unconscionability
 
Section
1281.2(b) of the Code of Civil Procedure provides that the court shall order
the petitioner and the respondent to arbitrate the controversy if it determines
that an agreement to arbitrate the controversy exists, unless it determines
that grounds exist for the revocation of the agreement. Here, Plaintiff argues
that the agreement is unenforceable due to unconscionability. 
 
The doctrine of unconscionability
refers to “an absence of meaningful choice on the part of one of the parties
together with contract terms which are unreasonably favorable to the other
party.”  (Sonic-Calabasas A, Inc. v. Moreno (2013) 57
Cal.4th 1109, 1133.) It consists of procedural and substantive components, “the
former focusing on oppression or surprise due to unequal bargaining power, the
latter on overly harsh or one-sided results.”  (Id.) Although
both components of unconscionability must be present to invalidate an
arbitration agreement, they need not be present in the same degree. (Armendariz
v. Found. Health Psychcare Servs., Inc. (2000) 24 Cal.4th
83, 114 (abrogated in-part on other grounds by Concepcion, 563 U.S.
333).)     
 
“Essentially a sliding scale is invoked
which disregards the regularity of the procedural process of the contract
formation, that creates the terms, in proportion to the greater harshness or
unreasonableness of the substantive terms themselves.  [Citations.] 
In other words, the more substantively unconscionable the contract term, the
less evidence of procedural unconscionability is required to come to the
conclusion that the term is unenforceable, and vice versa.”  (Id.)
“The party resisting arbitration bears the burden of proving
unconscionability.” (Pinnacle Museum Tower Ass’n v. Pinnacle
Market Dev. (2012) 55 Cal.4th 223, 247.)   
 
Procedural Unconscionability 
Procedural unconscionability “pertains
to the making of the agreement.”  (Ajamian v. CantorCO2e, L.P.
(2012) 203 Cal.App.4th 771, 795.)  Procedural unconscionability “focuses
on two factors: ‘oppression’ and ‘surprise.’ ‘Oppression’ arises from an
inequality of bargaining power which results in no real negotiation and ‘an
absence of meaningful choice.’ ‘Surprise’ involves the extent to which the
supposedly agreed-upon terms of the bargain are hidden in the prolix printed
form drafted by the party seeking to enforce the disputed terms.”  (Zullo
v. Superior Court (2011) 197 Cal.App.4th 477, 484.)  
 
A contract of adhesion typically
denotes a standardized contract imposed and drafted by the party of superior
bargaining strength which relegates to the subscribing party only the
opportunity to adhere to the contract or reject it. (Armendariz, supra,
24 Cal.4th at 113.)  The adhesive nature of a contract is one factor that
the courts may consider in determining the degree of procedural
unconscionability.  (Carmona v. Lincoln Millennium Car Wash, Inc.
(2014) 226 Cal.App.4th 74, 84 fn.4.)  
“‘[O]rdinarily
one who signs an instrument which on its face is a contract is deemed to assent
to all its terms. A party cannot avoid the terms of a contract on the ground
that he or she failed to read it before signing….’” Metters v. Ralphs
Grocery Co. (2008) 161 Cal.App.4th 696, 701.
Here, as to oppression, Plaintiffs argue that the
agreement is one of adhesion, as it was standardized, preprinted, and
apparently offered to potential residents with no real option but to sign it as
is. Plaintiffs contend that nowhere does it authorize negotiation, confirm that
negotiation occurred, or contemplate further negotiation, which constitutes oppression
arising from an inequality of bargaining power. Plaintiffs argue that they were
faced with a form contract offering no option for variance, that the decedent
had dubious mental capacity, there was a need for immediate and stable transfer
to nursing care, and a resulting lack of time or opportunity for aid from an
attorney. The Court notes that Plaintiffs repeatedly cite to “Nelson” in their
argument regarding unconscionability, but nowhere do they provide the full
citation.
 
The Court recognizes that Brookdale, a company, imposed
and drafted the Agreement with sophistication and superior bargaining power
compared to Plaintiffs, the children of the decedent-patient/resident, who had
no legal representative and no sophistication as to legal documents. There is
also an adhesive nature to the contract because the signatory Plaintiff who
signed as power of attorney on behalf of the decedent, the prospective
patient/resident, could reasonably have believed that the decedent would not be
able to live at Brookdale and receive care if they chose not to sign the
Agreement. Further, accepting as true the Plaintiffs’ contention that the
decedent’s mental capacity was diminished also signifies oppression as the
decedent had minimal to no bargaining power. Thus, the foregoing indicates
moderate oppression based on an inequality of bargaining power and an absence
of meaningful choice. 
Plaintiffs make
no clear argument as to the presence of unfair surprise. 
Thus, the arbitration agreement is procedurally
unconscionable to a moderate degree based on oppression.
Substantive Unconscionability 
An agreement
is substantively unconscionable if it imposes terms that are “overly harsh,”
“unduly oppressive,” “unreasonably favorable,” or “so one-sided as to ‘shock
the conscience.’”  (Sanchez v. Valencia Holding Co., LLC (2015)
61 Cal.4th 899, 910-911.)  “All of these formulations point to the
central idea that unconscionability doctrine is concerned not with ‘a simple
old-fashioned bad bargain’ [citation], but with terms that are ‘unreasonably
favorable to the more powerful party.’ [Citation.]”  (Id. at p.
911.)  “These include ‘terms that impair the integrity of the bargaining
process or otherwise contravene the public interest or public policy; terms
(usually of an adhesion or boilerplate nature) that attempt to alter in an
impermissible manner fundamental duties otherwise imposed by the law,
fine-print terms, or provisions that seek to negate the reasonable expectations
of the nondrafting party, or unreasonably and unexpectedly harsh
terms having to do with price or other central aspects of the transaction.’
”  (Id.) 
 
Where a
party expressly has the unilateral ability to avoid arbitration, the
arbitration agreement is unenforceable, as illusory. (Saika v. Gold
(1996) 49 Cal.App.4th 1074, 1081.) Where the parties agree to be bound by
arbitration, "lack of mutuality does not render the contract illusory,
i.e., lacking in mutual consideration." (Armendariz, supra, 24
Cal.4th at 118.) An employer’s contractual ability to modify terms of a
personnel handbook in writing carries with it a duty to act in good faith such
that an accompanying arbitration provision is not illusory. (24 Hour
Fitness, Inc. v. Superior Court (1998) 66 Cal.App.4th 1199, 1213-1214;
Accord Peng v. First Republic Bank (2013) 219 Cal.App.4th 1462, 1473.)
 
Here,
Plaintiffs argue that the arbitration agreement is substantively unconscionable
because it lacks mutuality and provides for an equal apportionment of costs
associated with arbitration. 
 
As to
mutuality, Plaintiffs state that “defendant’s purported agreement provides
similar unconscionable ‘carve-out’ provisions” in Section V, subsection (A)(1)
as those found in Lopez v. Bartlett Care Center, LLC (2019 39
Cal.App.5th 311, 321-22. In Lopez, the court found that an arbitration
agreement between a patient and a long-term health care facility lacked
mutuality because it “require[d] residents to arbitrate those claims they are
most likely to bring against the Facility (medical malpractice, personal
injury, elder abuse) while allowing the Facility to pursue in court the actions
the Facility is most likely to bring against residents (evictions and
collections).” (Id.) 
 
Like the Lopez
agreement which allowed the facility to pursue actions for evictions in
court while requiring patients to arbitrate all other claims, the Agreement here
exempts evictions from arbitration as it states “[a]ny and all claims or
controversies arising out of, or in any way relating to, this Agreement or your
stay at the Community, excluding any action for eviction....shall be
submitted to binding arbitration... ” (Loy Decl., Ex. A., italics added.) Thus, the Agreement here
requires residents
to arbitrate those claims they are most likely to bring against the Brookdale
(medical malpractice, personal injury, elder abuse) while allowing Brookdale to
pursue in court the actions Brookdale is most likely to bring against residents
(evictions). Therefore, the Agreement is substantively unconscionable for lack
of mutuality. 
 
Plaintiffs
also argue that the Agreement is substantively unconscionable as it provides
for an equal apportionment of costs associated with arbitration, citing Armendariz.
(Loy Decl., Ex. A.) Per Armendariz, an arbitration agreement must ensure
that a plaintiff does not bear any costs above that which he or she would have
to pay in court. (Armendariz, supra, 24 Cal.4th at 103–13.)  Thus, the agreement is substantively
unconscionable for requiring Plaintiffs to bear costs above that which they
would have to pay in court, such as the arbitrators’ fees and forum fees. 
 
Overall,
there is moderate procedural unconscionability due to oppression, and moderate substantive
unconscionability due to a lack of mutuality and a burdensome cost-sharing
requirement between Plaintiffs and Brookdale. As a showing of both procedural
and substantive unconscionability to a certain degree is required to prevent
enforcement, Plaintiff has established that the Agreement is also unenforceable
for unconscionability.
 
For the foregoing reasons, Defendant Brea Whittier LLC dba
Brookdale Central Whittier’s Motion to Compel Arbitration and Stay Proceedings is
DENIED.
 