 Case Number:  24NWCV00498    Hearing Date:   November 20, 2024    Dept:  C LE ET AL. V. HYUNDAI MOTOR AMERICA
CASE NO.: 24NWCV00498 
HEARING: 11/20/2024
 
#7
TENTATIVE ORDER
 
Defendant Genesis Motor America’s motion to compel
arbitration is GRANTED. The action is STAYED pending arbitration.
 
Moving party to give notice. 
 
Genesis Motor America, erroneously sued as Hyundai Motor
America, (Defendant) moves the Court for an order compelling Benjamin Le and
Tryna Nguyen (Plaintiffs) to arbitrate all claims and stay this action pending
arbitration.
 
Background
 
This is a lemon law action. On February 20, 2024, Plaintiffs
filed a complaint against Defendant alleging (1) violation of Song-Beverly Act
– breach of express warranty, (2) violation of Song-Beverly Act – breach of
implied warranty, and (3) violation of Song-Beverly Act section 1793.2. 
 
On August 13, 2022, Plaintiffs purchased a 2023 Genesis GV70
(Subject Vehicle) with a 5-year/60,000 mile bumper to bumper warranty and
10-year/100,000 mile powertrain warranty. (Complaint, ¶ 9.) Plaintiffs allege the Subject Vehicle possessed
defects and nonconformities at the time of purchase. (Complaint, ¶ 10.) Plaintiffs
further allege authorized service representatives were unable to repair the
Subject Vehicle to conform with the warranties after three service visits. (Complaint,
¶¶ 11-13, 53.)
 
 
Request for Judicial Notice
 
Plaintiffs request the Court take judicial notice of the
following legislative history: 
 
1.   
40 Fed.Reg. 60168 - 60211 (Dec. 31, 1975); 
2.   
64 Fed.Reg. 19700 - 19709 (Apr. 22, 1999); 
3.   
H.R.Rep. No. 93–1107 (1974); 
4.   
Subcommittee Staff Report, 120 Cong. Rec. 31,318
(1974); and 
5.   
5. Final Action Concerning Review of
Interpretations of Magnuson-Moss Warranty Act; Rule Governing Disclosure of
Written Consumer Product Warranty Terms and Conditions; Rule Governing Pre-Sale
Availability of Written Warranty Terms; Rule Governing Informal Dispute
Settlement Procedures; and Guides for the Advertising of Warranties and
Guarantees, 80 Fed.Reg. 42710-01 (July 20, 2015).
 
The Court GRANTS Plaintiffs’ requests. (Evid. Code §§ 452
(a), (c).)
 
Plaintiffs additionally request the Court take judicial
notice of the following Code of Federal Regulations sections: 
 
1.   
16 C.F.R., Subchapter G, Parts 700, 701, 702,
and 703
 
The Court GRANTS Plaintiffs’ request. (Evid. Code § 452 (b).)
 
Evidentiary Objections
 
Plaintiff’s raise the following evidentiary objections: 
 
Objection No. 1: To Declaration of Ali Ameripour, ¶ 3: Overruled.
Objection No. 2: To Declaration of Ali Ameripour, ¶ 3, Ex.
3: Overruled.
Objection No. 3: To Declaration of Vijay Rao, ¶ 5:
Overruled.
Objection No. 4: To Declaration of Vijay Rao, ¶ 6, Ex. 2:
Overruled.
 
Legal Standard
 
Under both the Federal Arbitration Act (FAA) and California
law, arbitration agreements are valid, irrevocable, and enforceable, except on
such grounds that exist at law or equity for voiding a contract. (Winter v.
Window Fashions Professions, Inc. (2008) 166 Cal.App.4th 943, 947.) The
party moving to compel arbitration must establish the existence of a written
arbitration agreement between the parties. (Code Civ. Proc. § 1281.2.) This is
usually done by presenting a copy of the signed, written agreement to the
court. “A petition to compel arbitration or to stay proceedings pursuant to
Code of Civil Procedure sections 1281.2 and 1281.4 must state, in addition to
other required allegations, the provisions of the written agreement and the
paragraph that provides for arbitration. The provisions must be stated verbatim
or a copy must be physically or electronically attached to the petition and
incorporated by reference.” (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1330.) The moving
party must also establish the other party’s refusal to arbitrate the
controversy. (Code Civ. Proc. § 1281.2.)
 
Under the FAA, general contract defenses, such as fraud,
duress, or unconscionability, may provide grounds for invalidating an
arbitration agreement if they are enforced evenhandedly and do not interfere
with fundamental attributes of arbitration. (9 U.S.C.A. § 1 et seq.) To
invalidate an arbitration provision, a plaintiff must show that it is both
procedurally and substantively unconscionable. (Marin Storage &
Trucking, Inc. v. Benco Contracting & Eng'g, Inc. (2001) 89 Cal. App.
4th 1042, 1053; Chemours Co. v. DowDuPont Inc. (2020) No. CV 2019-0351-
SG, 2020 WL 1527783, at *12.) “A court should consider substantive
unconscionability only after procedural unconscionability has been
established.” (Ramirez v. Charter Communications, Inc. (2024) 16 Cal.5th
478, 494.) Procedural unconscionability focuses on
whether there is ‘oppression’ arising from an inequality of bargaining power or
‘surprise’ arising from buried terms in a complex printed form. (Crippen v.
Central Valley RV Outlet. Inc. (2004) 124 Cal.App.4th 1159, 1280-81.)
 
Discussion
 
Defendant seeks a Court order to compel Plaintiffs to
arbitration based on an arbitration provision, “BINDING ARBITRATION FOR
CALIFORNIA VEHICLES ONLY” contained in an Owner’s Handbook & Warranty
Information (Handbook) and an arbitration provision contained in the Genesis
Connected Services Agreement (CSA). 
 
          Enforceability
of the Arbitration Agreement in the Owner’s Handbook 
 
Defendant includes a copy of the Handbook’s arbitration
provision in Ali Ameripour’s declaration. (Ameripour Decl., Exh. 3.) The
Handbook’s arbitration agreement states the following in relevant part: 
IF YOU PURCHASED OR LEASED YOUR
VEHICLE IN CALIFORNIA, YOUR WARRANTY IS MADE SUBJECT TO THE TERMS OF THIS
BINDING ARBITRATION PROVISION. BY USING THE VEHICLE, OR REQUESTING OR ACCEPTING
BENEFITS UNDER THIS WARRANTY, INCLUDING HAVING ANY REPAIRS PERFORMED UNDER
WARRANTY, YOU AGREE TO BE BOUND BY THESE TERMS. IF YOU DO NOT AGREE WITH THESE
TERMS. IF YOU DO NOT AGREE WITH THESE TERMS, PLEASE CONTACT US AT
OPT-OUT@GMA.COM WITHIN THIRTY (30) DAYS OF YOUR PURCHASE OR LEASE TO OPT-OUT OF
THIS ARBITRATION PROVISION.
 
Plaintiff argues the Handbook’s arbitration agreement is
improper because Defendant failed to properly submit admissible evidence of the
agreement. However, in a petition to compel arbitration, a party is not
required to follow normal authentication procedures. (Condee v. Longwood
Management Corp. (2001) 88 Cal.App.4th 215, 218-219 [“as a preliminary
matter the court is only required to make a finding of the agreement's
existence, not an evidentiary determination of its validity”].) 
 
In Plaintiff Benjamin Le’s declaration, he argues he never
signed the Handbook agreement because it did not require a signature. (Le
Decl., ¶ 6.) He also argues he did not rely on the Handbook regarding the
warranty because he exclusively relied on representations made by Defendant’s
authorized dealerships. (Le Decl., ¶ 7.) However, this contradicts Plaintiffs’
express allegations in the complaint which rely on the existence of a warranty.
Plaintiffs allege “[t]hese causes of action arise out of warranty and repair
obligations of HYUNDAI MOTOR AMERICA in connection with a vehicle Plaintiffs
purchased and for which HYUNDAI MOTOR AMERICA issued a written warranty. The
warranty was not issued by the selling dealership.” (Complaint, ¶ 4.) 
 
Next, Plaintiffs argue the Handbook’s arbitration agreement
is unenforceable under the Magnuson-Moss Warranty Act. The Magnuson-Moss
Warranty Act grants the FTC power to regulate alternative dispute resolution in
claims involving warranties. (15 U.S.C. § 2310(a)(2).) In reply, Defendant
contends the case law Plaintiffs cite to predates relevant rulings including
the Fifth Circuit Court’s ruling in Walton v. Rose Mobile Homes LLC (5th
Cir. 2002) 298 F.3d 470, 478-479 (“Walton”). The court in Walton held
“the MMWA does not preclude binding arbitration of claims pursuant to a valid
binding arbitration agreement, which the courts must enforce pursuant to the
FAA.” (Walton, supra, 298 F.3d 470, 478-479. Further, Walton’s
reasoning has been upheld by the 9th Circuit Court. (See In re Apple Iphone
3G Prods. Liab. Litig. (N.D.Cal. 2012) 859 F.Supp.2d 1084, 1091.) In In
re Apple Iphone 3G, the 9th Circuit Court explains, “There are two types of
written warranties under the [MMWA]: full warranties and limited warranties.
The MMWA ‘imposes minimum federal warranty standards’ for ‘full’ warranties and
provides remedies for their breach.” (In re Apple Iphone 3G Prods. Liab.
Litig. 859 F.Supp.2d at 1090 [citations omitted].) In ruling that the
claims were subject to arbitration, the Court explained that because the MMWA
claims hinged on the state law warranty claims, “it follows that the Court's
disposition of the MMWA claim must be determined by the Court's disposition of
the state law warranty claims.” (Id. at 1091.) Here, Plaintiff only
brings state law warranty claims under the Song-Beverly Act, not the
Magnuson-Moss Warranty Act. Accordingly, the Court finds the existence of a
valid and enforceable arbitration agreement in the Handbook. 
 
Enforceability of the CSA
Arbitration Provision
 
In the alternative, Defendant also puts forth an arbitration
agreement in the CSA. Plaintiffs enrolled the Subject Vehicle in Genesis
Connected Services through a dealer-assisted enrollment process. (Rao Decl., ¶
5.) As part of the enrollment process, customers must agree to the CSA. (Rao
Decl., ¶ 4.) Vijay Rao includes a copy of the CSA in his declaration. (Rao
Decl., Exh. 2.) In relevant part, the agreement states: 
Hyundai and you agree to arbitrate
any and all disputes and claims between us arising out of or relating to this
Agreement, Connected Services, Connected Services Systems, Service Plans, the
Vehicle, use of the sites, or products, services, or programs you purchase,
enroll in or seek product/service support for, whether you are a Visitor or
Customer, via the sites or through mobile application, except any disputes or
claims which under governing law are not subject to arbitration, to the maximum
extent permitted by applicable law. This agreement to arbitrate is intended to
be broadly interpreted and to make all disputes and claims between us subject
to arbitration to the fullest extent permitted by law. […] The agreement to
arbitrate otherwise includes, but is not limited to: claims based in contract,
tort, warranty, statute, fraud, misrepresentation or any other legal theory;
claims that arose before this or any prior Agreement.
 
The Court finds that Defendant properly included a copy of
the CSA agreement in its declaration. The CSA agreement applies broadly and
includes all claims alleged in the complaint. Accordingly, in the alternative,
the CSA agreement is also a valid and enforceable arbitration agreement.
 
          Procedural
Unconscionability
 
Plaintiffs argue the arbitration clause is procedurally
unconscionable because they were not informed by the authorized dealership that
the warranty claims would be subject to arbitration and because this is a
contract of adhesion. Defendant cites to the Supreme Court’s ruling in Sanchez
v. Valencia Holding Co. (2015) 61 Cal.4th 899, 914 to argue notice was not
required. A defendant had “no obligation to highlight the arbitration clause of
its contract, nor was it required to specifically call that clause to [plaintiff’s] attention.”
(Sanchez, supra 61 Cal.4th 899 at 914.) Here, Plaintiffs’
argument fails because there is no requirement that the authorized dealership
or Defendant draw attention to the arbitration agreement. 
 
Plaintiffs additionally argue this was a contract of
adhesion because the arbitration agreement was buried within the Handbook and
did not require signature. The Court agrees. However, a contract of adhesion is
not per se unconscionable. In reply, Defendant contends the agreement contained
an opt-out provision. (Ameripour Decl., Exh. 3, p. 16.) Additionally, Defendant
contends that Plaintiffs may purchase other vehicles. An opt-out provision and
availability of choice reduce the degree of procedural unconscionability.
Accordingly, the Court will assess substantive unconscionability.
 
          Substantive
Unconscionability 
 
Plaintiffs argues that the arbitration agreement is
one-sided and therefore substantively unconscionable. Here, the terms of the
Handbook’s arbitration agreement are not one-sided because they do not prevent
Plaintiffs from seeking arbitration again Defendant. 
 
Plaintiffs also argue that the Handbook’s arbitration
agreement includes an unconscionable delegation clause. The Handbook’s
arbitration provision states, “[t]he arbitrator (and not a court) shall decide
all issues of interpretation, scope, and application of this agreement.” (Ameripour
Decl., Exh. 3.) This is a delegation clause. Case law has developed three
qualities of substantively unconscionable delegation clauses: “(1)
a delegation clause is outside the reasonable expectation of the
parties; (2) delegation clauses are not bilateral; and (3) the
arbitrator has a self-interest in finding the agreement arbitrable.” (Malone
v. Superior Court (2014) 226 Cal.App.4th 1551, 1563-64 [citations
omitted].) 
 
The Court determines that the delegation clause present in
the Handbook’s arbitration agreement is not unconscionable. While the
delegation clause may be outside of the reasonable expectation of the parties,
it is bilateral and does not require a self-interested arbitrator. The agreement
states the American Arbitration Association will administer the binding
arbitration. (Ameripour Decl., Exh. 3.) Accordingly, the delegation clause is
valid.
 
Lastly, Plaintiff’s argue the CSA is unconscionable because
it illegally permits Defendant to recover statutory attorneys’ fees. The
relevant provision states: “HOWEVER, IN ARBITRATION, BOTH YOU AND HYUNDAI WILL
BE ENTITLED TO RECOVER ATTORNEYS’ FEES FROM THE OTHER PARTY TO THE SAME EXTENT
AS YOU WOULD BE IN COURT.” (Rao Decl., Exh. 2.) The Court does not agree that this provision alters the statutorily
permitted fees. To the extent Plaintiff argues the reduced time to bring a
claim is substantively unconscionable, the Court disagrees. Plaintiff cites Fisher
v. Moneygram Intern., Inc. (2021) 66 Cal.App.5th 1084 to support the
argument that the reduced time is unconscionable. However, the court in Fisher
found that a reduced statute of limitations, combined with governing rules
which make arbitration more expensive and a clause requiring each party to bear
its own attorney’s fees led to substantive unconscionability. The court
reasoned “[s]tanding alone, the degree of substantive unconscionability flowing
from each of these three issues is modest. But collectively, their impact is
substantial.” (Id. at 1107.) Here, standing alone, a reduced time period
does not render the agreement substantively unconscionable.   
 
Accordingly, the
arbitration agreement is valid and enforceable. The Court GRANTS Defendant’s
motion to compel arbitration.
 
Motion to Stay
Proceedings
 
California Code of
Civil Procedure section 1281.4 states that the court shall stay the action or
proceeding if the court has ordered arbitration. (Code Civ. Proc. §
1281.4.) Accordingly, the Court will STAY proceedings pending arbitration.
 
 