 Case Number:  23NWCV04096    Hearing Date:   November 20, 2024    Dept:  C RS FREIGHT LINE V.
RUSH FREIGHT SYSTEMS
CASE NO.:  23NWCV04096
HEARING:  11/20/2024
 
#5
TENTATIVE ORDER
 
Attorney Jason N. Cirlin’s unopposed Motion to be
Relieved as Counsel for Plaintiff RS Freight Line is GRANTED.  
 
Moving party(s) to give notice. 
 
This is a debt collection action. On December 19, 2023,
Plaintiff RS Freight Line (“Plaintiff”) filed this action against Defendant
Rush Freight Systems Inc. (“Defendant”) and Does 1 to 50. The Complaint alleges
Plaintiff entered into an agreement for freight services with Defendant on
March 4, 2021 (“Freight Agreement”). Pursuant to the Freight Agreement,
Defendant agreed to pay for freight services quoted according to the prevailing
rates within fifteen days, and the amounts past due would be charged at 10
percent per annum. As of October 17, 2023, Defendant has allegedly failed to
pay the amount of $73,780.00 for freight services rendered by Plaintiff. The
Complaint alleges the following causes of action: 1) Breach of Contract, 2)
Quantum Meruit, 3) Open Book Account, 4) Account Stated, and 5) Common Counts. 
 
On August 7, 2024, Plaintiff’s counsel, Attorney Jason N.
Cirlin (“Attorney Cirlin”) filed this unopposed Motion to be Relieved as
Counsel. 
 
A motion to be relieved as counsel requires compliance with
California Rules of Court, Rule 3.1362. The Rule requires the following: 1)
notice of motion and motion to be directed to the client (Form MC-051), 2) a
declaration stating in general terms and without compromising the
confidentiality of the attorney-client relationship why a motion under CCP §
284(2) is brought instead of filing a consent under CCP § 284(1) (Form MC-052),
3) service of the notice of motion and motion and declaration on all other parties
who have appeared in the case, and 4) the proposed order relieving counsel (Form
MC-053).¿  
 
Here, Attorney Cirlin has properly filed the notice of
motion and motion to be relieved as counsel, a declaration in support of the
motion, and the proposed order. All documents have been served on Plaintiff and
Defendant. The Court finds Attorney Cirlin has met all requirements under California
Rules of Court, Rule 3.1362.
 
An attorney requesting to be relieved must provide
sufficient cause for their withdrawal. The California Professional Code of
Conduct, Rule 1.16(b)(4) provides that provides that a permissive request for
withdrawal may be properly granted where “the client by other conduct renders
it unreasonably difficult for the lawyer to carry out the representation
effectively.” Rule 1.16(b)(5) further provides that a request for withdrawal
may be properly granted where “the client breaches a material term of an
agreement with, or obligation, to the lawyer relating to the representation,
and the lawyer has given the client a reasonable warning after the breach that
the lawyer will withdraw unless the client fulfills the agreement or performs
the obligation.” 
 
Here, Attorney Cirlin’s declaration provides that there has
been “[a] breakdown in communication” between Attorney’s Cirlin’s firm, Cirlin
Goldberg LLC (“CGLLC”), and Plaintiff, “rendering it unreasonably difficult to
carry out [CGLLC] responsibilities as counsel.” (Cirlin Decl., ¶ 2.) Further,
Plaintiff has breached its retainer agreement with CGLLC. (Ibid.) The
Court finds Attorney Cirlin has provided proper bases for withdrawal. 
 
The Court GRANTS the Motion to be Relieved as Counsel. 