 Case Number:  23NWCV02307    Hearing Date:   November 20, 2024    Dept:  C SALMERON V. JAGUAR
LAND ROVER NORTH AMERICA, LLC
CASE NO.: 23NWCV02307 
HEARING: 11-20-2024
 
#11
TENTATIVE ORDER
 
Plaintiff Maria E. Salmeron’s Motion to Compel Further Response
to Request for Production of Documents (Set One) is GRANTED.  Defendant to provide further response within
45 days, absent agreement by the parties to a longer period.  
 
Moving party to give notice. 
 
Maria E. Salmeron (Plaintiff) moves to compel further
response to request for production of documents (Set one) from Jaguar Land
Rover North America, LLC (Defendant). 
 
Background
 
This is a lemon law action about a 2018 Land Rover Range
Rover Evoque (Subject Vehicle). On July 25, 2023, Plaintiff filed a complaint
against Defendant alleging three causes of action: (1) violation of
Song-Beverly Act – breach of express warranty, (2) violation of Song-Beverly
Act – breach of implied warranty, and (3) violation of Song-Beverly Act section
1793.2. Plaintiff alleges defects and nonconformities to warranty including
suspension, emission, engine, and system defects. Plaintiff alleges Defendant
was unable to conform the Subject Vehicle to warranty after approximately ten
repair attempts between May of 2019 to June of 2023. 
 
On December 8, 2023, Plaintiff filed the instant Motion to
Compel Further Response to Request for Production of Documents (Set One). 
 
In its July 17, 2024 ruling, the Court determined that the
parties did not meet and confer in good faith and ordered the parties to further
meet and confer.  The matter was
continued to August 28, 2024.  The
parties were instructed to file a joint amended separate statement by August
16, 2024.  
 
On August 16, 2024, the parties filed a joint amended
separate statement indicating that they were able to narrow the scope of
Plaintiff’s motion to Request No. 30.  This
request relates to customer complaints in Defendant’s electronically stored
information database(s) that are substantially similar to those made by
Plaintiff regarding the Subject vehicle. 

 
On August 28, 2024, the Court ruled that Plaintiff had
demonstrated the relevance of similar complaints about the same year, make, and
model of vehicles sold in California for the past five years.  However, the Court indicated it would also
consider the cost of compliance, the number of vehicle records to be searched,
and the needs for the discovery in the context of the single case.  The Court asked Defendant to provide a
declaration of the number of vehicles involved, the nature of the undertaking
to find the requested information regarding the number of vehicles involved,
and the time and costs of doing so.
 
In response to the Court’s request, Defendant filed a
declaration of Liana A. Wong on November 8, 2024.  
 
Discussion
 
Request for Production of Documents No. 30 reads in its
entirety as follows:
 
All DOCUMENTS, in the form of a
list or compilation, of other Customer Complaints in YOUR electronically stored
information of database(s) that are SUBSTANTIALLY SIMILAR to complaints made by
Plaintiff with respect to the SUBJECT VEHICLE in other 2018 Land Rover Range
Rover Evoque vehicles. 
“SUBSTANTIALLY SIMILAR” shall mean
similar customer complaint that would be the same nature of the reported
system, malfunction, trouble code, Technical Service Bulletin Recommendation,
dashboard indicator light, or other manifestation of a repair problem, as
description listed in any warranty summary or repair order for the SUBJECT
VEHICLE. […]
 
The declaration of Liliana A. Wong describes that in March
of this year, Defendant was ordered to produce documents of similar complaints
for the same year, make, and model as the Subject Vehicle. (Wong Decl., ¶ 2.)
Defendant identified 366 Customer Relations Center (CRC) complaints which took
4.7 hours to download and 37.2 hours to redact private information. (Wong
Decl., ¶¶ 5-7.) Wong also describes that the undertaking will be less in the
instant action because unlike in Defendant’s matter in March, here, Plaintiff asks
for a list or compilation, not individual CRC cases. (Wong Decl., ¶ 9.)
Defendants have shown responsive documents can be identified and downloaded and
are therefore reasonably accessible. Further, the production of responsive
documents is less burdensome for Defendants in the instant action than in past
discovery for other matters. Thus, the Court determines that producing
documents in response to Request No. 30 would not constitute an undue expense
or burden on Defendant.  
 
Plaintiff’s Motion to Compel Further Response to Request for
Production of Documents (Set One) is GRANTED as to Request No. 30.  Defendant to provide further response within 45
days, absent agreement by the parties to a longer period.  
 
 