  Case Number:  21SMCV01627    Hearing Date:   May 31, 2024    Dept:  I The matter is here for two reasons.  The first is the lien sought by judgment
creditors.  They allege that they hold a
judgment against Vivera and would like an order that any money paid by the
defaulted defendants be paid to them as a credit against the judgment rather
than to Vivera. 
 
The second reason the case is here today is for the default
prove-up.  The court is taking the
somewhat unusual step of requiring a live prove up because the judgment seeks
$7.5 million in damages against Girardi. 
(The other defendants have settled.) 
According to the supporting declaration from Vivera’s CEO, Edalat,
Cervantes is a former advisor to Vivera. 
He introduced Vivera to Salimour and Girardi for a potential business
opportunity in 2017.  He also introduced
the declarant to former Mayor Villaraigosa. 
Villaraigosa allegedly said he could assist Vivera in getting a contract
with Los Angeles for COVID-19 testing. 
Edalat says that he became friends with Salimpour, who was to be an
advisor.  But the relationship soured and
the two parted ways in 2018.  Edalat
claims that Girardi and Salimpour made a number of defamatory comments about
him, Vivera, and Karpinski to various people and that Edalat learned of them in
June 2020.  The statements were conveyed
to Edalat by Cervantes.  Edalat reached
out to Salimpour to ask about them, but he denied making them and denied
Girardi had either.  Salimpour and
Girardi then allegedly filed a frivolous complaint against Vivera (Girardi, the
court thinks, as counsel) alleging employment related claims.  Edalat says that he kept hearing about
defamatory statements allegedly made by Girardi continuing into 2020 and even
early 2021.  In January 2021, Edalat says
that he learned that Girardi continued to say defamatory things.  He thinks Girardi did that to get a favorable
settlement in the other case.  The
statements allegedly made by Girardi are that Edalat is a crook and in trouble
with the feds; that there were demeaning sexual statements about Karpinski and
that she was only employed due to her looks, and that Vivera was going
nowhere.  Edalat claims that he learned
from Villaraigosa that the statements were having a negative effect on
prospective business relationships.  For
example, Villaraigosa allegedly said he could not submit a bid to the City due
to those statements.  Edalat says that
the way government contracts work, they need to have political backing and that
if Villaraigosa backed it, it was virtually guaranteed to succeed.  But, he claims, Girardi’s influence doomed
that to failure.  
 
Edalat claims that the entity that ultimately got the
contract was paid $7.5 million according to a web site.  Edalat says that Girardi had a close
relationship with Bluestone—the entity that got the contract.  Edalat also claims that Girardi was aware of
another relationship Vivera had involving the Coushetta Tribe of
Louisiana.  But that relationship went
sour when the prospective client heard about the derogatory comments.  Edalat says that Cervantes said Girardi
confirmed he made the defamatory statements. 
There was a similar pattern with the San Manuel Band of Mission Indians.
 
Edalat has submitted a declaration stating that plaintiffs
have dismissed all of the other defendants. 
No money changed hands in any of those agreements, although there seems
to have been some kind of consideration in the settlement with Pedram Salimpour
and PPS Health (but the terms of that agreement are confidential).
 
The court has a number of problems with this.  First, the court is not inclined to believe,
without more, that Los Angeles will simply award contracts to whomever former
Mayor Villaraigosa endorses.  While the
court is well aware that city government is not always pristine, the court is
not prepared to say that it is wholly in Villaraigosa’s palm.  The same is true of the two Native American
nations.  The evidence of the defamatory
comments is not well established.  The
court is not sure that there is any actual admissible evidence that the
statements even were made.  The court is
aware that the default essentially admits the truth of the accusations, but
even so, the court takes this with a box of salt.
 
Finally, the alleged damages are not proven.  The fact that a contract’s face value is $7.5
million does not mean (a) that Vivera would have received the same contract or
(b) that the face value of the contract is the profit.  The contract was to provide COVID-19
testing.  The court has to presume that
there would have been some costs incurred to perform, not only to develop the
tests, but also to manufacture them and provide them to the City.
 
The fact is that the complaint smacks of piling on, at least
as to the damages here.  Having said
that, this is here for a prove-up.  If
the matter is proven up, the court will award damages as appropriate.
 
The lien sought is proper, and when the prove-up occurs, the
motion will be GRANTED.
 
However, there is a monkey wrench.  The court also notes that on Tuesday,
plaintiffs’ counsel filed a request to withdraw, although those motions are not
on calendar today.  The court is not
inclined to hold a hearing where plaintiffs are represented by counsel who
believes that it can no longer represent plaintiffs.  The matter will therefore be CONTINUED until
late July or August to allow the withdrawal motions to be heard and for
plaintiffs to find new counsel.
 
 