 Case Number:  23SMCV04459    Hearing Date:   May 31, 2024    Dept:  I The motion to compel is GRANTED.  The request for sanctions is GRANTED in the
amount of $2970, as against defendant, but not counsel.  Defendant’s request for sanctions is DENIED.
 
This is a Song-Beverly case in which fraud is also
alleged.  Plaintiff seeks the deposition
of defendant’s person most knowledgeable and to have that person produce
documents at the deposition.  Defendant
contends that it has provided a date for the deposition in November, and
therefore the motion is moot.  
 
The court does not agree that the motion is moot.  Plaintiff sent the initial notice of
deposition in November 2023.  Defendant’s
response that it never said it would not provide a witness rings hollow given
that the deposition is a full year after the notice was served.  The court has some sympathy for the notion
that defendant is very busy, but defendant must do better than this.  Defendant will provide, no later than Friday,
June 7, 2024, 10 options that are no less than 3 weeks from today and not more
than 60 days from today.  Plaintiff may
pick from among those dates.  If
defendant fails to provide the dates, plaintiff may set the date unilaterally
within the time frame just stated.  The
court notes that defendant’s position would have been stronger had it attempted
to make a showing of burden.
 
As for the production of documents, there is no opposition
to the production or any separate statement disputing the propriety of the
requests other than privilege.  That
said, the court does not see any real attempt to meet and confer on the
document categories.  The court would
expect better efforts in the future.
 
For
now, the documents requested, other than those withheld for privilege and for
which there is a privilege log, will be produced 10 court days before the
deposition date.  All objections are
waived other than privilege.  If
defendant truly believes that production is unduly burdensome, defendant may
move for a protective order but will need to make a real showing based on
evidence.  The court notes that most of
the requests go to the same make, model, year, and alleged defect, at least for
the most part, which the court believes makes the requests proper.  Thus, to the extent that defendant wanted to
engage in a real discussion with plaintiff to limit further that train has left
the station absent some truly unusual circumstances.  