 Case Number:  23SMCV04284    Hearing Date:   May 31, 2024    Dept:  I This is a motion to compel further responses to
discovery.  The untimely reply is
STRICKEN. 
 
This is one of three related cases involving the
representation of Miles by the Mashian Law Group, with Mashian apparently
acting as lead counsel.  Also at issue is
Viridity, an entity with whom Miles was doing business that was the subject of
the representation.  This particular
action is an action by Miles against Mashian for malpractice and related causes
of action.
 
Plaintiff seeks to compel further responses to form
interrogatories 115.2 and 115.3. 
Although these are form interrogatories designed for limited civil
matters (of which this is not one), they may be used in unlimited matters as
well.  Even so, defendant contends that
the interrogatories make no sense in this context.  
 
Interrogatory 115.2 says “State in detail the facts upon
which you base your contention that you are not responsible, in whole or in
part, for plaintiff’s damages.” 
Interrogatory 115.3 says “State the name, ADDRESS, and the
telephone number of each PERSON, other than the PERSON asking
this interrogatory, who is responsible in whole or in part, for the damages
claimed in this action.”
 
Mashian’s answer to 115.2 is an objection because Mashian
does not believe plaintiff in fact suffered any damages due to anything that
defendant did.  Mashian also states that
he has not contended that defendant is not responsible for the damages, and
thus cannot respond.  Mashian goes on to
say that plaintiff did not pay the fees owed and that Miles’s injury is the
result of suit filed by the law firm, not Mashian personally.  The court does not believe this is
appropriate.  Mashian can certainly
state, in a verified response under oath, that he believes that Miles suffered
no damages and therefore no one is responsible. 
That is not an objection; it is an assertion of fact.  And Mashian can also state, again under oath,
that to the extent Miles suffered any damages, it was Mashian Law Group, not
Mashian personally, that caused them. 
The court does not agree that the fact that Mashian had not answered
makes the interrogatory premature.  The
operative word is “contention,” not “statement in your answer.”   A contention need not be in an answer; it
can be in a demurrer (which Mashian did file) or otherwise.  Mashian’s response is not so over-the-top bad
as to be head-scratching; the problem is that it is not really a good
objection; it needs to be stated as a fact and under oath.
 
Mashian’s answer to 115.3 is an objection as premature and
assumes that Miles suffered some damages due to conduct by Mashian.  Mashian also states that Mashian had not yet
filed an answer.  In other respects, it
is the same essentially as 115.2.  And
the same problems exist.  It is
permissible for Mashian to answer, under oath, that it does not believe Miles
suffered any damages or injury at all, and thus there are no “PERSON’s” to name
or identify.  And Mashian can also state
that to the extent Miles did suffer any injury, it was the firm, not Mashian
personally, that caused the injury by bringing suit (and then giving the firm’s
address and phone).  If Mashian thinks
Viridity is to blame, Mashian should so state.
 
The bottom line is that this sort of bickering is a waste of
everyone’s time.  The theories of the
case here are not secrets.  Mashian
should answer the interrogatories in a straightforward manner.  That said, Mashian did explain, albeit not
under oath, the basis for its responses. 
The court believes that both sides had substantial justification for their
positions.
 
Therefore, the motion to compel is GRANTED.  Mashian will provide supplemental verified
responses, without objection, along the lines discussed above within 2 court
days.  The requests for sanctions are
DENIED because, although not under oath, the gist of the answers was present.
 
The court has already given the parties its guidelines on
discovery and meet and confer.  The meet
and confer was inadequate here and no purpose would be served to continue the
hearing.  But in the future, the court
expects the parties to abide by the guidelines. 
