 Case Number:  22SMCV01060    Hearing Date:   May 31, 2024    Dept:  I The court has reviewed the proposed judgment and the
objections.  The court’s memory is
similar to that of defendant regarding the damages stipulation.  All parties agreed that the jury’s verdict
would be remitted because of an obvious error in the verdict.  However, defendant did not agree that the
verdict was correct or waive any right to challenge the verdict.  There is no general waiver here.  As to the start of interest, the parties do
not disagree that prejudgment interest started to run on July 12, 2024, or that
the rate is 10% simple, or that prejudgment interest ceases on the date the
judgment is entered.  The court will ask
the parties to calculate that amount, which should be straightforward.  However, that is not an agreement by the
defense that the verdict is proper, nor does the court recall defendant
stipulating that prejudgment interest is proper.  In the court’s view, it is proper as stated,
but the court does not recall a stipulation. 
The court agrees with the defense that it has the right to challenge the
amount of costs or to move to strike costs if a ground exists therefor.  However, the traditional way to do this is
for the court to state that plaintiff is awarded “costs in the amount of” and
then a blank.  The amount of costs will
be filled in as a clerical function if there is no objection thereto or after a
hearing on a motion to strike costs or tax them.  If they are stricken, the amount inserted
will be zero.  The court agrees that the
dismissal of the third, fourth, and fifth causes of action are with prejudice.  Counsel’s names should be removed from the
caption.  This is the court’s judgment;
it is merely proposed by counsel.  It
should not say which party is submitting it.
 
The court therefore agrees with defendant’s proposed form,
except as follows.  Paragraph 2 of the
judgment should be “shall” not “may.”  In
paragraph 3, it should say that “Plaintiff Amir Bahadori shall recover its
costs from Defendant S. Javaid Anwar in the amount of $______________.”  There should be a final paragraph that states
that the amount of the total judgment shall accrue interest at the legal rate
of 10% per annum from the date of entry until paid.  There is no need to say “It is so
ordered.”   
 
Because the parties need to calculate the amount of
prejudgment interest (unless they can agree), the court will need a new form to
be completed as set forth above.  The court would like it to be submitted by Tuesday, June 4, 2024.