..................... ..................... ..................... ......
The summary displayed below was created by an LLM named 'llama3-8b-8192':
Here is the summary of the Judge's tentative ruling in YAML format:

```
Case Number: 24STCV10311
Plaintiff's Name: Guangzhou Beaver Cosmetic Co., Ltd., Guangzhou Beaver Industrial Co., Ltd., Guangzhou Evergreen Brands Co., Ltd., and Guangzhou Fortune Brands Management, Co., Ltd.
Defendant's Name: Luseta Beauty Inc.
People-Names: None
Company-Names: Guangzhou Beaver Cosmetic Co., Ltd., Guangzhou Beaver Industrial Co., Ltd., Guangzhou Evergreen Brands Co., Ltd., Guangzhou Fortune Brands Management, Co., Ltd., Luseta Beauty Inc.
Places: None
Dates: 2012, 2022, 2023, September 4, 2024
Events: Breach of contract, Demurrer
Money: 6,236,854.73
Intentions: To determine whether the complaint is sufficient to state a cause of action
Facts: Oral agreement for sale of products, failure to pay, partial performance
Disputes: Uncertainty, statute of limitations, statute of frauds
Acts: Demurrer, pleading of the complaint
Agreements: Oral agreement for sale of products
Laws: Code of Civil Procedure, Commercial Code, Civil Code
Case Citations: Blank v. Kirwan, Hahn v. Mirda, Gressley v. Williams, Khoury v. Maly's of Cal., Inc., Mahan v. Charles W. Chan Insurance Agency, Inc., Schifando v. City of Los Angeles, Krawitz v. Rusch, Miles v. Deutsche Bank National Trust Co., State of California ex rel. Metz v. CCC Information Services, Inc., Fremont Indemnity Co. v. Fremont General Corp., Siskin v. Dembroff
Statutes: Code of Civil Procedure, Commercial Code, Civil Code
Roles: Judge, Plaintiff, Defendant
Significant Statements:
* The demurrer should be sustained only where the defects appear on the face of the pleading or are judicially noticed.
* A court should sustain a demurrer if a complaint does not allege facts that are legally sufficient to constitute a cause of action.
* A demurrer should not be sustained without leave to amend if the complaint, liberally construed, can state a cause of action under any theory or if there is a reasonable possibility the defect can be cured by amendment.
* The demurrer is OVERRULED.
```

And here is a summary of the judge's tentative ruling in English text:

The judge has issued a tentative ruling in a case involving a dispute between Guangzhou Beaver Cosmetic Co., Ltd., et al. (Plaintiffs) and Luseta Beauty Inc. (Defendant). The Defendant filed a demurrer to the Plaintiffs' complaint, arguing that the contract claim is uncertain, violates the statute of limitations, and violates the statute of frauds. The judge has ruled that each of the Defendant's arguments is without merit.

The judge has found that the Plaintiffs have pleaded the legal effect of the oral agreement, which is that Plaintiffs agreed to sell products to Defendant at set prices, and Defendant has failed to pay, resulting in an amount owed of 6,236,854.73. The judge has also found that the Complaint alleges the required elements to establish a breach of contract claim and that the claim is not so uncertain that Defendant cannot reasonably respond.

The judge has also rejected the Defendant's arguments that the Complaint fails to plead the date of the agreement's execution, consideration, product types, terms and conditions of performance, warranties, and dates of all amendments to the agreement. The judge has found that the Complaint alleges partial performance, which provides an exception to the requirement for a writing under the statute of frauds.

The judge has therefore overruled the demurrer and allowed the Plaintiffs' complaint to proceed.
