  Case Number:  23STLC05961    Hearing Date:   December 12, 2024    Dept:  26 Cal. Automobile Ins. Co. v. Benson Crane, inc. et al.,TENTATIVE RULING:
Plaintiff California Automobile
Insurance Company’s Motion for Judgment on the Pleadings against Defendant David Allen Benson dba Benson Crane is
GRANTED. PLAINTIFF IS TO FILE AND SERVE A PROPOSED JUDGMENT WITHIN 20 DAYS OF
THIS ORDER.  
ANALYSIS:
On September 15, 2023,
Plaintiff California Automobile Insurance Company (“Plaintiff”) filed
this action for automobile subrogation against Defendant David Allen Benson dba
Benson Crane (erroneously sued as Benson Crane, Inc.) (“Defendant”). Defendant
filed an answer on January 24, 2024. On August 14, 2024, the Court granted
Plaintiff’s Motion to Deem Requests for Admission Admitted and Request for
Monetary Sanctions against Defendant. (Minute Order, 08/14/24.)
Plaintiff filed the instant
Motion for Judgment on the Pleadings against Defendant on September 9, 2024. No
opposition to the Motion has been filed to date.
Discussion
Plaintiff moves for judgment on
the pleadings, the standard for which is essentially the same as that
applicable to a general demurrer. That is, under the state of the pleadings,
together with matters that may be judicially noticed, it appears that a party
is entitled to judgment as a matter of law. 
(Bezirdjian v. O’Reilly (2010) 183 Cal.App.4th 316, 321-322,
citing Schabarum v. California Legislature (1998) 60 Cal.App.4th 1205,
1216.) Matters which are subject to mandatory judicial notice may be treated as
part of the complaint and may be considered without notice to the parties.
Matters which are subject to permissive judicial notice must be specified in
the notice of motion, the supporting points and authorities, or as the court
otherwise permits. (Id.) 
The motion may not be supported by extrinsic evidence. (Barker v.
Hull (1987) 191 Cal.App.3d 221, 236.)
While a statutory motion for
judgment on the pleadings brought pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section
438, et seq. must be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration, there is no
such requirement for a motion for judgment on the pleadings brought pursuant to
the common law. (See Code Civ. Proc., § 439 [moving party must file declaration
demonstrating an attempt to meet and confer in person or by telephone, at least
five days before the date a motion for judgment on the pleadings is filed].)
Plaintiff’s Motion is accompanied
by a request for judicial notice of the matters deemed admitted in Plaintiff’s
Motion to Deem Requests for Admission, Set One, Admitted, and this Court’s August
14, 2024 order deeming the Requests for Admission admitted against Defendant.
The Court takes judicial notice of these admissions pursuant to Cal. Evidence
Code section 452, subdivision (d). (Cal. Evid. Code, § 452, subd. (d); Cloud
v. Northrop Grumman Corp. (1998) 67 Cal.App.4th 995, 999; Evans v.
California Trailer Court, Inc. (1994) 28 Cal.App.4th 540, 549) [holding
that the court may take judicial notice of matters that cannot be reasonably
controverted, including “admissions and concessions.”].)
The admissions in the Request for
Admissions directly contradict the general denial and affirmative defenses
asserted in Defendant’s Answer. The admissions admit that Defendant, during the
operation of a crane, caused an electrical surge on the property of Plaintiff’s
insured that caused damage to the property. (RJN, Exh. 2 at Exh. A, Request for
Admission Nos. 1-4.) They also admit that Defendant failed to act with
reasonable care in the operation of the crane and as a result, Defendant caused
damage to a power line on the insured’s property, and to the property. (Id.
at Request for Admission Nos. 5-7.) The admissions admit that Defendant’s
negligence caused the insured, and subsequently, Plaintiff to incur damages of
$11,888.23. (Id. at Request for Admission Nos. 8-10.) Finally, Defendant
admits that the affirmative defenses asserted in the Answer lack merit and
evidentiary support. (Id. at Request for Admission No. 11.)
By this Motion, Plaintiff has demonstrated that it served
Defendant with Requests for Admissions that effectively establish the truth of
the allegations in the Complaint, as detailed above. The admissions establish
the facts upon which Plaintiff based its Complaint and that Defendant has not
alleged a defense to Plaintiff’s Complaint in the Answer. Therefore, judgment
on the pleadings is appropriate against Defendant. 
ConclusionPlaintiff California Automobile
Insurance Company’s Motion for Judgment on the Pleadings against Defendant David Allen Benson dba Benson Crane is
GRANTED. PLAINTIFF IS TO FILE AND SERVE A PROPOSED JUDGMENT WITHIN 20 DAYS OF
THIS ORDER.Moving party to give notice.