 Case Number:  24STCP02499    Hearing Date:   December 12, 2024    Dept:  26 Fitterer v. Magana et al.TENTATIVE RULING:
Petitioner Brian L. Fitterer’s Petition to Declare
Mobilehome Abandoned is DENIED. 
ANALYSIS:
On August 8, 2024, Petitioner Brian
L. Fitterer dba Laurel Canyon Mobile Estates (“Petitioner”) filed the instant
Petition to Declare Mobilehome Abandoned against Respondents Juan Magana and
Irma Magana (“Respondents”). Respondents filed a verified answer on October 1,
2024.
Discussion
Pursuant
to Civil Code section 798.61, Petitioner
seeks a court order deeming Respondents’ mobilehome, (“the Mobilehome”) located
at 9051 Laurel Canyon Blvd., #24, Sun Valley, California (“the Space”), to be
abandoned, and awarding Petitioner rent due on the Mobilehome site from October
1, 2021 to July 31, 2024 in the amount of $47,946.40, plus daily accruing
damages of $35.71 per day from August 1, 2024 through judgment, and court costs
and attorney’s fees. (Pet., Prayer at ¶¶2-4.)
A. Determination of “Abandoned Mobilehome”—Civ. Code § 798.61(a)(1)
Pursuant
to Civil Code, section 798.61, subdivision (a)(1), an “abandoned mobilehome” means
a mobilehome about which all of the following are true:
(A) It is located in a
mobilehome park on a site for which no rent has been paid to the management for
the preceding 60 days. 
(B)
It is unoccupied.
(C)
A reasonable person would believe it to be abandoned. 
(D)
It is not permanently affixed to the land.(Civ. Code, § 798.61, subd. (a)(1).) The Petition is
supported by the declaration of Melina Miramontes, Petitioner’s regional
manager. Miramontes declares that the Mobilehome was previously occupied by
Respondents’ daughter, Griselda Magana, pursuant to a written agreement with
Petitioner. (Pet., Miramontes Decl., ¶2.) Then, from “March 1, 2024, and at all
times continuing thereafter to the date of this Declaration the subject
Mobilehome has been unoccupied.” (Id. at ¶5.) The mobilehome park
manager posted a Notice of Belief of Abandonment on the Mobilehome on May 31,
2024. (Id. at ¶6 and Exhs. 1-2.) A person alleging to be Respondent Irma
Magana responded to the Notice of Belief of Abandonment but refused to pay the
past due rent and utilities and incurring storage fees despite being provided
notice of the same. (Id. at ¶8.) Petitioner explains Respondents’ burden
at the hearing:
(Civ. Code, § 798.61, subd. (a)(1).) The Petition is
supported by the declaration of Melina Miramontes, Petitioner’s regional
manager. Miramontes declares that the Mobilehome was previously occupied by
Respondents’ daughter, Griselda Magana, pursuant to a written agreement with
Petitioner. (Pet., Miramontes Decl., ¶2.) Then, from “March 1, 2024, and at all
times continuing thereafter to the date of this Declaration the subject
Mobilehome has been unoccupied.” (Id. at ¶5.) The mobilehome park
manager posted a Notice of Belief of Abandonment on the Mobilehome on May 31,
2024. (Id. at ¶6 and Exhs. 1-2.) A person alleging to be Respondent Irma
Magana responded to the Notice of Belief of Abandonment but refused to pay the
past due rent and utilities and incurring storage fees despite being provided
notice of the same. (Id. at ¶8.) Petitioner explains Respondents’ burden
at the hearing:
If, at the hearing, the petitioner
shows by a preponderance of the evidence that the criteria for an abandoned
mobilehome has been satisfied and no party establishes an interest therein at
the hearing and tenders all past due rent and other charges, the court shall
enter a judgment of abandonment, determine the amount of charges to which the
petitioner is entitled, and award attorney's fees and costs to the petitioner.
For purposes of this subdivision, an interest in the mobilehome shall be
established by evidence of a right to possession of the mobilehome or a
security or ownership interest in the mobilehome.
(Code Civ. Proc., § 798.61, subd.
(d)(2).) In their answer, Respondents dispute that they have abandoned the Mobilehome.
Respondents contend that Petitioner took away their possession of the
Mobilehome via an unlawful detainer action against a subtenant (presumably
Griselda Magana) in December 2023 and by thereafter changing the locks on
February 8, 2024. (Answer, p. 2:3-9 and Exh. 3.) Respondent Irma Magana sent
Petitioner a certified letter on February 21, 2024 requesting access to the
Mobilehome. (Id. at p. 2:9-10 and Exhs. 4-5.) On April 2, 2024, NSLA
Neighborhood Legal Services sent a letter advising Petitioner that it was in
violation of Mobilehome Residency Law by denying Respondents the right to sell
the Mobilehome and/or pay off any outstanding debt owed to Petitioner. (Id.
at p. 2:10-15 and Exh. 6.) Respondents sent Petitioner’s counsel a letter by
certified mail on June 13, 2024 stating that the Mobilehome had not been
abandoned and that Respondents have attempted to make payments that were
refused. (Id. at p. 2:17-24 and Exh. 10.)
Due to this conflicting evidence
the Court cannot make a finding the Mobilehome is “abandoned” within the
meaning of Civil Code, section 798.61, subdivision (a)(1). Respondents sent
Petitioner multiple letters regarding their access to, and possession of, the
Mobilehome before and after the Notice of Belief of Abandonment was posted.
Petitioner’s only acknowledgement of this communication is the park manager’s
declaration that “[w]e have received notice that a person who alleges to be
Irma Magana, one of the Respondents, has responded to the Notice of Abandonment
but has repeatedly refused to pay the past due rent and utilities and incurring
storage fees, despite being provided with a full ledger listing all past due
amounts owed.” (Motion, Miramontes Decl., ¶8.) No copy of the ledger, nor proof
of its service on Respondents, is attached. A reasonable person would not
believe that Respondents have abandoned the Mobilehome under these facts.
B.         Notice of Belief of Abandonment—Civ.
Code § 798.61(b)
Civil Code, section
798.61, subdivision (b) requires:
“After determining a mobilehome
in a mobilehome park to be an abandoned mobilehome, the management shall post a
notice of belief of abandonment on the mobilehome for not less than 30 days,
and shall deposit copies of the notice in the United States mail, postage
prepaid, addressed to the homeowner at the last known address and to any known
registered owner, if different from the homeowner, and to any known holder of a
security interest in the abandoned mobilehome. This notice shall be mailed by
registered or certified mail with a return receipt requested.”


(Civ. Code, § 798.61, subd. (b).) Petitioner attached a
Notice of Belief of Abandonment to the Petition, which was served on
Respondents by posting and certified mail on May 31, 2024 and June 3, 2024,
respectively. (Pet., Exhs. 2-3.) Therefore, Petitioner has satisfied the
requirements of Civil Code, section 798.61, subdivision (b). 
C.        Petition for Judicial Declaration—Civ.
Code § 798.61(c)
Civil Code, section 798.61(c)(1) states:
“Thirty or more days following posting
pursuant to subdivision (b), the management may file a petition in the superior
court in the county in which the mobilehome park is located, for a judicial
declaration of abandonment of the mobilehome. A proceeding under this
subdivision is a limited civil case.  Copies
of the petition shall be served upon the homeowner, any known registered owner,
and any known person having a lien or security interest of record in the
mobilehome by posting a copy on the mobilehome and mailing copies to those
persons at their last known addresses by registered or certified mail with a
return receipt requested in the United States mail, postage prepaid.”  (Emphasis added.)
(Civ. Code, § 798.61, subd. (c)(1).) Sun Valley is located
within the County of Los Angeles, which is within this Court’s jurisdiction.
The instant Petition was filed more than 30 days after the Notice of
Abandonment was posted. Petitioner has shown proper service of the Petition and
initial Notice of Hearing on Respondents. (Proofs of Service, filed 08/16/24
and 08/21/24.)
D.        Charges, Attorneys’ Fees, and Costs
“If, at the hearing, the
petitioner shows by a preponderance of the evidence that the criteria for an
abandoned mobilehome has been satisfied and no party establishes an interest
therein at the hearing and tenders all past due rent and other charges, the court
shall enter a judgment of abandonment, determine the amount of charges to which
the petitioner is entitled, and award attorney's fees and costs to the
petitioner.” (Civ. Code, § 798.61, subd. (d)(2).) As discussed above,
Petitioner has not shown by a preponderance of the evidence that the criteria
for an abandoned mobilehome is satisfied.
Also, Petitioner’s evidence also
does not demonstrate how it came to determine the amount Respondents are
claimed to owe. No copy of the ledger, nor proof of service of the same,
purportedly provided to Respondents is attached to the Petition. Also, for the
period during which this amount accrued, starting in October 2021, it is
unclear if Griselda Magana owed Petitioner some of the rent that they are
seeking against Respondents. Respondents attach a letter to Petitioner from
NSLA Neighborhood Legal Services that refers to the unlawful detainer action
against Griselda Magana, LASC Case No. 23PDUD00017. The Court, on its own
motion, takes judicial notice that judgment has been entered in LASC Case No. 23PDUD00017
against Griselda Magana in the amount of $25,000.00. (LASC Case No. 23PDUD00017,
Judgment dated 12/13/24.)
Conclusion
Based on the foregoing, Petitioner Brian L. Fitterer’s
Petition to Declare Mobilehome Abandoned is DENIED. Court clerk to give notice.
