  Case Number:  23STCV13188    Hearing Date:   November 14, 2024    Dept:  40 
23STCV13188 Jesus Castro v. American Honda Motor Co., Inc.
Thursday,
 November 14, 2024 
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER 
GRANTING DEFENDANT’S MOTION FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT
 
I.      
BACKGROUND
      The
complaint alleges that Defendant issued a written warranty to Plaintiff in
connection with a 2021 purchase of a 2018 Honda Pilot. Plaintiff alleges the
vehicle developed defects within the warranty period that Defendant failed or was
unable to repair. Plaintiff alleges four separate violations of the
Song-Beverly Consumer Warranty Act (“SBA”) and a fifth cause of action for breach
of the implied warranty of merchantability. 
II.    
ARGUMENTS
      Defendant
argues that all four alleged violations of the SBA are barred because a used
vehicle does not qualify as a “new motor vehicle” for purposes of the SBA. Therefore,
Plaintiff lacks standing to bring this action. The fifth cause of action for
breach of implied warranty fails because Plaintiff bought the vehicle from DCH
Gardena, not Defendant. The SBA imposes implied warranty obligations on the
seller of used vehicles, not the manufacturer.  
      Defendant timely served Plaintiff with the motion. No
opposition has been filed. 
III.   
LEGAL STANDARDS
      Summary
judgment is proper “if all the papers submitted show that there is no triable
issue as to any material fact and that the moving party is entitled to judgment
as a matter of law.” (Code
Civ. Proc., § 437c subd. (c).) As
the moving party, Defendant’s burden is to show that based on the undisputed
facts “one or more elements of the cause of action, even if not separately
pleaded, cannot be established, or that there is a complete defense to the
cause of action." (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c subd. (p)(2).) If that threshold burden is
established, the burden shifts to the opposing party to show a triable issue of
one or more material facts. (Code Civ. Proc., §437c(p)(1).)
      The
court applies the three-step analysis to motions for summary judgment or
adjudication: (1) identify the issues framed by the pleading, (2) determine
whether the moving party established facts which negate the opponents’ claim,
(3) if the moving party meets its threshold burden of persuasion and the burden
shifts, determine whether the opposing party has controverted those facts with
admissible evidence. (Torres
v. Reardon (1992) 3 Cal.App.4th 831, 836.) 
IV.  
DISCUSSION
A.    
The undisputed facts establish that Plaintiff is
not entitled to the remedies under the SBA because he bought a used vehicle
without a new warranty issued by Defendant.            
      Defendant
relies chiefly on Rodriguez
v. FCA US, LLC (2022) 77 Cal.App.5th 209, a decision which was
granted review by the California Supreme Court on April 7, 2022. On October 31,
2024, the California Supreme Court issued its ruling disapproving Jensen
v. BMW of North America, Inc. (1995) 35 Cal.App.4th 112, and
holding that a motor vehicle sold with an unexpired manufacturer’s new car
warranty does not qualify as a “new motor vehicle”[1]
for purposes of the SBA "unless the new car warranty was issued with the
sale. " (Rodriguez
v. FCA US, LLC (Cal., Oct. 31, 2024, No. S274625) 2024 WL 4631069, at *1.)
The statute’s definition also states that a dealer-owned vehicle and a
‘”demonstrator” or other motor vehicle sold with a manufacturer’s new car
warranty “qualify as ‘new motor vehicles’ for purposes of the statute.” (Rodriguez
at *3.) 
      The Rodriguez
court reasoned that if the Legislature intended to define “new motor vehicle”
to include used cars with unexpired new car warranties, it would have done so. 
(Id.).
While consumers of used car vehicles are provided similar remedies under the
Act, "the manufacturer is generally off the hook.” (Rodriguez
at *5. ["The Act's remedies for failure to repair a used product
in conformity with an express warranty have applicability where the express
warranty accompanies the sale of the product. For new products, liability
extends to the manufacturer; for used products, liability extends to the
distributor or retail seller and not to the manufacturer, at least where the
manufacturer has not issued a new warranty or played a substantial role in the
sale of a used good." (Id.). 
      As
Plaintiff did not file an opposition, all material facts proffered by Defendant
are without dispute. Plaintiff bought a 2018 used vehicle with 29,049 miles on
the odometer that was sold simply as a used vehicle. It was not sold as a
certified pre-owned vehicle. (UF 1-3.) The vehicle had a 3-year/36,000-mile new
vehicle limited warranty and a 5-year/60,000-miles Powertrain Warranty when it
was originally leased or sold. (UF 4.) Plaintiff received the balance of both
warranties when he bought the vehicle on September 25, 2021. (UF 5.) Defendant
did not provide any new warranties at the time Plaintiff bought the 2018 Honda
Pilot. (UF 10.) There is no evidence that Plaintiff purchased a certified,
pre-owned American Honda vehicle that was newly warranted by Defendant at the
time of purchase. (UF 11.) 
      Accordingly,
the undisputed material facts establish that Plaintiff does not have a remedy
under the SBA for a used vehicle that was not re-issued a warranty at the time
of his purchase. 
B.    
The fifth cause of action for breach of implied
warranty fails because Plaintiff bought the vehicle used from DCH Gardena, not
Defendant manufacturer. 
      Implied
warranty obligations are owed by distributors or sellers of used
goods—not manufacturers of new goods." (Nunez
v. FCA US LLC (2021) 61 Cal.App.5th 385, 399.) Defendant relies on the
same material facts identified above, which establish without that dispute that
Defendant manufacturer is not liable for breach of implied warranty of a used
vehicle. 
V.    
CONCLUSION
      Based
on the foregoing, Defendant’s Motion for Summary Judgment is GRANTED. 
 
      
 
 
 
      


