 Case Number:  24STCV12055    Hearing Date:   November 14, 2024    Dept:  40 
24STCV12055 Christina Yousefi v. Pacific Premier Bank, et al.
Thursday,
 November 14, 2024, at 8:30 a.m.
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER DENYING DEFENDANTS’
 MOTION TO STAY ACTION 
 
I.      
BACKGROUND
      The
complaint alleges Defendants discriminated against Plaintiff based on gender
and pregnancy and ultimately terminated Plaintiff’s employment. Plaintiff
alleges claims for violations of the Fair Employment and Housing Act and for
wrongful termination in violation of public policy. 
      On
September 18, 2024, the Hon. Anne Richardson denied Defendants’ motion to
compel arbitration concluding that all of Plaintiff’s claims relate to
Plaintiff’s pregnancy harassment allegation, and therefore, arbitration of that
cause of action and related claims could not be compelled under the Ending
Forced Arbitration of Sexual Assault and Sexual Harassment Act (“EFAA”). (9
U.S.C.A. § 401 (West).) Defendants filed their notice of appeal on October
8, 2024. 
 
II.    
ARGUMENTS
      Defendants
move to stay the action until their appeal of the court’s order denying their
motion to compel arbitration is perfected.  Defendants claim that a stay is automatic.,  California Code of Civil Procedure section 1294
is preempted by the Federal Arbitration Act (“FAA”) and is thus unenforceable.  Defendants also seek a discretionary stay
which would  promote judicial efficiency,
avoid the risk of conflicting and inconsistent rulings, and will prevent
prejudice to Defendants. 
      In
opposition, Plaintiff argues that California no longer permits an automatic
stay of the action pending the subject appeal. Issuance of a stay will
substantially injure Plaintiff. The public interest favors a denial of the
motion. All claims are related to Plaintiff’s pregnancy harassment allegation,
and therefore, there is no basis for a stay. 
      In
reply, Defendant argues that the legislation Plaintiff refers to is preempted
by the FAA. The court should not enforce it as it violates the “equal treatment
rule.” Judicial economy and avoiding duplicative rulings will be served by a
stay. 
 
III.   
LEGAL STANDARDS
      While
an order denying a petition to compel arbitration is appealable, "the
perfecting of such an appeal shall not automatically stay any proceedings in
the trial court during the pendency of the appeal." (Code
Civ. Proc., § 1294.)  Defendants
argue that contrary to the EFAA, a district court must stay proceedings while
an interlocutory appeal on the issue of arbitrability is ongoing. (Coinbase,
Inc. v. Bielski (2023) 599 U.S. 736, 738.) Defendants argue that the
same reasoning applies here to preempt section 1294.
      Appealability,
however, is a creature of statute, and absent any conflict between section 1294
and the policies underlying the FAA enforcing arbitration agreements, California
procedural law governs. (Judge
v. Nijjar Realty, Inc. (2014) 232 Cal.App.4th 619, 632.) Judge concluded
that where the parties’ contract did not mandate application of federal
procedural law, California courts apply state procedural law. (Judge
at 631.) Here, Defendants do not cite a provision requiring the application
of federal procedural law. 
      Coinbase
does not apply since the U.S. Supreme Court interpreted and relied upon 9
U.S.C.A. § 16 (West) which “divest[ed] the district court of its control
over those aspects of the case involved in the appeal." (Coinbase,
at 740.) This court is bound by state procedural rules. 
      Defendants
have not established that the “equal treatment rule” requires preemption of
section 1294. The FAA “establishes an equal-treatment principle” wherein a
court may “invalidate an arbitration agreement based on ‘generally applicable
contract defenses,’ but not on legal rules that ‘apply only to arbitration or
that derive their meaning from the fact that an agreement to arbitrate is at
issue, … .” (Kindred
Nursing Centers Ltd. Partnership v. Clark (2017) 581 U.S. 246, 247.) Kindred
concluded that the FAA “preempted any state rule that discriminated on its face
against arbitration or that covertly accomplishes the same objective by
disfavoring contracts that have the defining features of arbitration agreements.”
(Kindred
at 247.)
      Kindred
involved representatives who, by virtue of their powers of attorney, signed
arbitration agreements on behalf of their relatives prior to moving the
relatives into a nursing home. (Kindred
at 246.) At issue was the Kentucky Supreme Court’s ruling applying the
“clear statement” rule that "because neither power of attorney specifically
entitled the representative to enter into an arbitration agreement" the agreements
requiring arbitration were invalid and not enforceable. (Id.)  
      The
U.S. Supreme Court held that the “clear-statement rule” violated the FAA as it
singled out arbitration agreements for disfavored treatment. (Kindred
at 247.) The FAA thus preempted Kentucky’s rule as it
discriminated “on its face” against arbitration agreements and failed to put
arbitration agreements on an equal plane with other contracts.” (Kindred
at 246.)
      Defendants
have not demonstrated how Section 1294’s provision precluding an automatic stay
triggered by an appeal of an order denying a petition to arbitrate is
discriminatory on its face and in violation of the equal-treatment principle.  On the contrary, the statute affords
Defendants the right of an immediate appeal from the order at issue.
      Defendants’
argument also contravenes the purpose of the statute which is to avoid delay
tactics by corporate defendants who “pause a consumer, government, or worker’s case by simply filing an appeal of a trial court’s denial of a 
motion to compel arbitration. Through this process, powerful corporations delay
cases filed against them for typically one to three years.” (Plaintiff’s RJN
Ex. D, p. 1.)[1]
 The statute will “level the playing
field for consumers, governments, and workers who deserve to move their case
forward when a company or employer violates their rights.” (Id.,
p. 2).  Section 1294’s enactment
sought to correct an imbalance previously afforded a defendant corporation,
that enjoys the “luxury” of “the right to a full appeal when a court orders the
case dismissed, or denies the defendant's petition to compel a case to private arbitration”
that is not afforded to consumers, resulting in delay. (Id.)
The risk of inconsistent judgments and promoting the policy of judicial economy
were not policies on which the legislation was based. The legislature sought to
correct the prejudice suffered by consumers, not employer defendants. 
 
IV.  
CONCLUSION
      As articulated,
a mandatory stay, is not required. 
Similarly, Defendants have not demonstrated a basis for the court’s
exercise of its discretion to impose a stay pursuant to its “fundamental inherent
equity” and power to control its processes given the clear import of section
1294 as supported by its stated purpose. (Cottle
v. Superior Court (1992) 3 Cal.App.4th 1367, 1376 [A trial court’s
inherent authority is constitutionally derived.].) Accordingly, Defendant’s motion
is DENIED. 
 


