  Case Number:  21STCV41597    Hearing Date:   September 17, 2024    Dept:  72  
SUPERIOR COURT OF CALIFORNIA
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES
 
DEPARTMENT 72
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



YEHUDA ELMAKIAS, et al., 
 
                                 
  Plaintiffs,
  
         v.
 
 
ILAN KENIG, et al.,
 
                                  Defendants.
 


 Case No: 
  21STCV41597
 
 
 
 
 
 Hearing Date:  September 17, 2024
 Calendar Number:  3



 
 
 
Defendants Ilan Kenig (“Kenig”), FMB Development, LLC
(“FMB”), and Nehorai Construction, Inc. (“Nehorai”) (collectively,
“Defendants”) move for judgment on the pleadings as to the First Amended
Complaint (“FAC”) filed by Plaintiffs Yehuda Elmakias (“Elmakias”) and Cloud
Nine Builders (“Cloud Nine”) (collectively, “Plaintiffs”).
 
The Court DENIES Defendants’ motion.
 
Background
 
This is a construction contract case.
 
Defendants retained Plaintiff Elmakias to perform project
management on approximately 41 construction projects. Plaintiff alleges that
Defendants failed to pay Plaintiffs, converted Plaintiffs’ property,
fraudulently used Plaintiffs’ contractor license, and created fake contracts,
checks, and invoices to obtain improper funding.
 
Plaintiffs recorded a number of mechanic’s liens against
Defendant FMB relating to reimbursement of the fees and costs advanced on six
of the properties.
 
On June 21, 2021, Plaintiffs and FMB entered into a
settlement agreement (the “Settlement”). (Defendants’ Request for Judicial
Notice, Ex. A (“Settlement”).) The Settlement provided that Cloud Nine would
release the mechanics’ liens and would not record further liens against
Defendants’ properties. (Settlement at pp. 2-3.) The Settlement provided that
FMB would dismiss all of the petitions that it had filed for expungement of the
liens. (Settlement at pp. 2-3.) The Settlement included reciprocal claim releases
by both parties. (Settlement at p. 3.) The releases explicitly excluded all
claims which result from any act other than the fact that mechanics liens were
recorded on the six properties in question. (Settlement at p. 3.)
 
Plaintiffs filed this action against Defendants on November
12, 2021. 
 
The operative complaint is now the First Amended Complaint
(“FAC”), which raises claims for (1) breach of contract; (2) conversion; (3)
fraud; (4) implied or equitable indemnity; (5) temporary restraining order; (6)
preliminary injunction; and (7) permanent injunction.
 
Kenig and FMB (collectively, “Cross-Complainants”) filed a
cross-complaint against Plaintiffs on April 11, 2022. 
 
The operative cross-complaint is now the First Amended
Cross-Complaint (“FACC”), which raises claims for (1) breach of contract; (2)
negligence; (3) defamation per se; and (4) conversion.
 
On May 17, 2024, a non-jury trial commenced in this action.
Kenig was individually present, representing himself. FMB and Nehorai did not
appear because they were not able to do so without counsel. Kenig requested a
continuance, which was at first denied. Kenig participated in the trial.
Plaintiff conducted direct examination of Elmakias. Plaintiff sought
provisional admission of eighteen exhibits, which the Court granted, pending
any objections by Defendants. When the Court determined that there were problems
with the notice on Kenig, however, the Court continued the trial to July 17,
2024.
 
On July 11, 2024, Kenig filed an ex parte application to
continue the trial. On July 12, 2024, the Court granted the ex parte
application and continued trial to October 7, 2024. At the hearing, Kenig
contended that trial in this matter should be a jury trial. The Court set an
order to show cause on whether trial should be a jury trial for August 22,
2024.
 
Defendants filed an initial brief on this issue. Plaintiffs
filed an opposition and Defendants filed a reply.
 
Request for Judicial Notice
 
“Judicial notice may be taken of the following matters to
the extent that they are not embraced within Section 451:
 
(a) The decisional,
constitutional, and statutory law of any state of the United States and the
resolutions and private acts of the Congress of the United States and of the
Legislature of this state.
 
(b) Regulations and
legislative enactments issued by or under the authority of the United States or
any public entity in the United States.
 
(c) Official acts
of the legislative, executive, and judicial departments of the United States
and of any state of the United States.
 
(d) Records of (1)
any court of this state or (2) any court of record of the United States or of
any state of the United States.
 
(e) Rules of court
of (1) any court of this state or (2) any court of record of the United States
or of any state of the United States.
 
(f) The law of an
organization of nations and of foreign nations and public entities in foreign
nations.
 
(g) Facts and
propositions that are of such common knowledge within the territorial
jurisdiction of the court that they cannot reasonably be the subject of
dispute.
 
(h) Facts and
propositions that are not reasonably subject to dispute and are capable of
immediate and accurate determination by resort to sources of reasonably
indisputable accuracy.”
 
(Evid. Code, § 452.)
 
            Defendants
request that the Court take judicial notice of the Settlement because its
existence and contents are not in dispute.
 
            Plaintiffs
do not dispute the existence or contents of the Settlement. However, Plaintiffs
dispute the proper interpretation of the Settlement’s terms and argue that
judicial notice of it is therefore improper.
 
            “If
the language of the agreement is unambiguous and no disputed extrinsic evidence
bears upon its meaning, interpretation of the document is a legal issue for the
court.” (Chacon v. Union Pacific Railroad (2020) 56 Cal.App.5th 565, 573.) “Where,
as here, judicial notice is requested of a legally operative document—like a
contract—the court may take notice not only of the fact of the document and its
recording or publication, but also facts that clearly derive from its legal
effect.” (Scott v. JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. (2013) 214 Cal.App.4th 743,
754.)
 
            Here,
Plaintiffs do not dispute the existence of the Settlement agreement or the text
of its terms. Nor do Plaintiffs dispute the meaning of the Settlement’s terms
using extrinsic evidence. Rather, Plaintiffs argue (as discussed below) that
the plain terms of the Settlement show that it only released claims relating to
the acts of recordation of the mechanic’s liens, and not the entire universe of
the parties’ actual or potential claims against each other. Thus, the Court may
properly take judicial notice of the Settlement agreement and interpret its
terms as a matter of law.
 
            The
Court therefore grants the request for judicial notice and takes notice of the
Settlement between Plaintiffs and Defendant NMB.
 
Legal Standard
 
Either prior to trial, but after the time to answer or demur
has passed, or at the trial, the plaintiff or the defendant may move for
judgment on the pleadings and the appropriate ground for such a motion is the
same as that arguable by general demurrer, namely, the failure to state a cause
of action or defense. (Dobbins v. Hardister (1966) 242 Cal.App.2d 787,
791; See also Sofias v. Bank of America (1985) 172 Cal.App.3d 583, 586
[The non-statutory motion for judgment on the pleadings can be made at any time,
even during trial, since the grounds for a general demurrer are never waived.],
see also Code Civ. Proc., §438(f).)  
 
A motion for judgment on the pleadings performs the same
function as a general demurrer, and hence attacks only defects disclosed on the
face of the pleadings or by matters that can be judicially noticed. (See, e.g.,
Weil & Brown, Cal. Practice Guide: Civil Procedure Before Trial (TRG 1998)
§§ 7:275, 7:322; Lance Camper Manufacturing Corp. v. Republic Indemnity Co.
(1996) 44 Cal.App.4th 194, 198.) Presentation of extrinsic evidence is
therefore not proper on a motion for judgment on the pleadings. (Id.; Cloud
v. Northrop Grumman Corp. (1998) 67 Cal.App.4th 995, 999.) Both a demurrer
and a motion for judgment on the pleadings accept as true all material factual
allegations of the challenged pleading, unless contrary to law or to facts of
which a court may take judicial notice. (Mechanical Contractors Assn. v.
Greater Bay Area Assn. (1998) 66 Cal.App.4th 672, 677; Edwards v. Centex
Real Estate Corp, (1997) 53 Cal.App.4th 15, 27.) 
 
The motion may be made only after one of the following
conditions has occurred: (1) If the moving party is a plaintiff, and the
defendant has already filed his or her answer to the complaint and the time for
the plaintiff to demur to the answer has expired; (2) If the moving party is a
defendant, and the defendant has already filed his or her answer to the
complaint and the time for the defendant to demur to the complaint has expired.
(Code Civ. Proc., § 438(f).) The motion provided for in Code of Civil Procedure
section 438 may be made even though either of the following conditions
exist:  (1) The moving party has already demurred to the complaint or
answer, as the case may be, on the same grounds as is the basis for the motion
provided for in this section and the demurrer has been overruled, provided that
there has been a material change in applicable case law or statute since the
ruling on the demurrer; (2) The moving party did not demur to the complaint or
answer, as the case may be, on the same grounds as is the basis for the motion
provided for in this section. (Code Civ. Proc., § 438(g).) No motion may be
made pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 438 if a pretrial conference
order has been entered pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 575, or
within 30 days of the date the action is initially set for trial, whichever is
later, unless the court otherwise permits. (Code Civ. Proc., § 438(e).)
 
Discussion
 
            Defendants
argue that the Settlement fully resolved the parties’ claims against each other
and that Plaintiffs’ claims must be dismissed as a result.
 
            By
its express terms, the Settlement only provides for the release of claims
stemming from the act of recordation of the mechanics liens on FMB’s
properties. (Settlement at p. 3.) The relevant paragraph of the Settlement is
paragraph 5.  While the first sentence of
this paragraph contains what appears to be a broad release of FMB by Cloud
Nine, the paragraph goes on to state as follows:  
 
“The
parties expressly agree and acknowledge that this release is limited to and
does not extend to or impact any actual or potential claims, liability or
damages resulting from any act or omission by FMB and/or Ilan Kenig or any of
its principals other than the fact that Mechanic’s Liens were recorded on the
Properties.”
 
(Settlement at p. 3, paragraph 5.)
 
            The
FAC includes a number of claims that do not stem from the act of recordation of
liens or security interests. The FAC alleges that Plaintiffs worked on 41
projects – more than the six properties covered in the Settlement. (FAC ¶ 15.) Plaintiffs
allege that Defendants failed to pay a weekly management fee and a year-end
bonus. (FAC ¶¶ 19, 24.) Plaintiffs allege that Defendants failed to return
tools and equipment to Plaintiffs and failed to pay the rental rates for them.
(FAC ¶ 26.) Plaintiffs allege that Defendants fraudulently used Plaintiffs’
general contractor license on multiple projects. (FAC ¶ 28.) Plaintiffs allege
that Defendants created fake contracts, invoices, and checks which exposed
Plaintiffs to damages. (FAC ¶ 31.) Plaintiffs seek damages for this conduct.
 
            Defendants
argue that the claims in the FAC are inherently bound up in the same business
relationship and disputes resolved by the Settlement. (Reply at p. 4.)
Defendants argue that Plaintiffs filed this lawsuit under the same core theory
under which Plaintiffs filed the mechanic’s liens.
 
            The
Settlement, however, did not extend its release to the full business
relationship. It only extended its release to the fact that the liens were
recorded. Plaintiffs seek recovery for different acts – acts which were
allegedly committed by Defendants, and not by Plaintiffs, who recorded the
liens. The Court therefore finds that the Settlement does not bar the action as
a whole.
 
            Defendants
argue that Plaintiffs implicitly concede that there are some claims in this
case which relate to the recordation of the mechanics’ liens, and that the
Court should therefore grant the motion in part. (Reply at p. 1:19-22.)
However, Defendants do not explain which of Plaintiffs’ claims they believe
relate to the act of recording the liens – outside, that is, of Defendants’
argument that the answer is “all of them.” Furthermore, Defendants’ notice does
not split out Plaintiffs’ various claims and explain different grounds for
their dismissal; rather, it simply seeks dismissal of the entire FAC pursuant
to the Settlement. The Court therefore finds that Defendants have not met their
burden to show that dismissal of any specific claim is proper.
 
            The
Court therefore denies the motion.