 Case Number:  24STCV04204    Hearing Date:   September 17, 2024    Dept:  72  
SUPERIOR COURT OF CALIFORNIA
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES
 
DEPARTMENT 72
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



KATHERINE KELLER, 
 
                                  Plaintiff,
  
         v.
 
 
ROBERT H. BISNO, et al.,
 
                                  Defendants.
 


 Case No: 
  24STCV04204
 
 
 
 
 
 Hearing Date:  September 17, 2024
 Calendar Number:  5



 
 
 
Defendants Robert H. Bisno (“Robert”); Jeanette Ann Bisno
(“Jeanette”); Law Office of Robert H. Bisno (“Law Office”); Bisno Management
Company, LLC (“Bisno Management”); Bisno Development Enterprise, LLC (“Bisno
Development”); The Bisno Family Limited Partnership (“Bisno Family”); and Bisno
Real Estate Group, LLC (“Bisno Real Estate”) (collectively, “the Bisno Parties”)
move for relief from default. 
 
The Court GRANTS the motion. 
The Bisno Parties shall file their response within five (5) days.
 
Background
 
Plaintiff Katherine Keller (“Plaintiff”) filed this action against
the Bisno Parties on February 20, 2024, raising claims for (1) malicious
prosecution, and (2) violation of the Bane Act. Plaintiff subsequently named a
number of additional corporate defendants via Doe amendments.
 
On April 12, 2024, Plaintiff served Robert, Jeanette, Bisno
Management, Bisno Development, and Bisno Real Estate via personal service.
 
On May 6, 2024, Bisno Management, Bisno Development, and
Bisno Real Estate (collectively, the “Anti-SLAPP Entities”) filed an anti-SLAPP
motion (the “First Anti-SLAPP”), noticing the hearing for May 28, 2024.
Plaintiff filed an opposition on May 9, 2024 arguing, inter alia, that the
motion did not provide an adequate notice period.
 
On May 17, 2024, default was entered against Law Office and
Bisno Family.
 
On May 20, 2024, the Anti-SLAPP Entities withdrew the First
Anti-SLAPP, stating that they would re-file it with an adequate notice period.
 
On May 21, 2024, default was entered against Robert, Bisno
Management, Bisno Development, and Bisno Real Estate.
 
On May 23, 2024, Robert, Bisno Management, Bisno
Development, and Bisno Real Estate filed a Notice of Intent to File Anti-SLAPP
Motion.
 
On May 28, 2024, the Anti-SLAPP Entities filed the pending
anti-SLAPP motion (the “Second Anti-SLAPP”).
 
On May 31, 2024, default was entered against Jeanette.
 
On June 3, 2024, Robert and Jeanette filed a notice of
joinder to Second Anti-SLAPP.
 
On July 30, 2024, the Court denied the Second Anti-SLAPP on
the basis that all of the moving parties had been defaulted.
 
On August 2, 2024, the Bisno Parties moved for relief from
default. Plaintiff filed an opposition and the Bisno Entities filed a reply.
 
Evidentiary Objections
 
            The
Court has reviewed the parties’ evidentiary objections.
 
            The
Court overrules the Bisno Parties’ objections.
 
            The
Court sustains Plaintiff’s objection to the reply declaration of Robert Bisno
on the basis that it is impermissible evidence submitted with reply papers. The
Court notes that even if it did not sustain this objection, the reply Bisno
declaration would not change the outcome of this motion, because it consists of
legal argument impermissible in a declaration, rather than declarations of
fact.
 
Request for Judicial Notice
 
The Court grants Plaintiff’s request for judicial notice and
takes notice of the requested docket items in this case as public records.
 
Legal Standard
 
Permissive Relief Under Code of Civil Procedure, section 473 (b) 
 
The trial court has discretion to “relieve a party or his or
her legal representative from a judgment, dismissal, order, or other proceeding
taken against him or her through his or her mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or
excusable neglect.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 473 (b).) Such an application shall be
accompanied by a copy of the answer or other pleading proposed to be filed in
replacement of the pleading being set aside and shall be made within six months
after the judgment, dismissal, order, or other pleading for which dismissal is
being sought. (Ibid.) 
 
Mandatory Relief under Code of Civil Procedure, section 473 (b) 
 
Where a defendant in default moves for relief from default,
judgment, or other dismissal against them entered as the result of her
attorney’s mistake and “no more than six months” have passed since the entry of
judgment, the court shall grant such relief as is requested, provided
the motion satisfies all procedural requirements and the court does not find
that the entry of default was caused by something other than the attorney's
mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or neglect. (Code Civ. Proc., § 473 (b).)
 
Discussion
 
Service
 
The Bisno Parties argue that Plaintiff had a practice of
refusing to serve the Bisno Parties as required by California Rules of Court, rule
2.254(b) and Los Angeles Superior Court General Order Re Mandatory Electronic
Filing for Civil, filed November 5, 2018. The Bisno Parties argue that this was
a material cause of their default.
 
California Rules of Court, rule 2.254(b) provides that a
court may provide for mandatory electronic filing and service of documents.
(Cal. Rules of Court, rule 2.254(b).) The Los Angeles Superior Court has
adopted such a rule: “[p]ursuant to California Rules of Court, rule 2.253(b),
represented litigants will be required to electronically file documents with
the Court through an approved Electronic Filing Service Provider.” (Los Angeles
Superior Court General Order Re Mandatory Electronic Filing for Civil, November
5, 2018 at p. 2:16-20 (“General Order”).)
 
The Bisno Parties argue that Plaintiff was required to serve
them electronically pursuant to the General Order. This argument is without any
legal basis and does not accord with the language of the General Order.  The General Order requires that a represented
party electronically file documents with the Court. Plaintiff has done
so – her documents have been timely filed electronically with the Court and are
in the Court’s electronic document system. The General Order does not prescribe
a manner of service that must be effected on parties. Parties should not
make arguments that rely on a blanket misreading of the language of an order.
 
Furthermore, Plaintiff has provided proofs of service as to
the Bisno Parties showing that the complaint and summons were served on each of
the Bisno Parties via personal service on Robert, the person authorized to
receive service (and attorney for the Bisno Parties, other than himself). (Willoughby
Decl. ¶ 3-6, Ex. A.) Personal service is a statutorily authorized method of
service. (Code Civ. Proc., § 415.10.)
 
Failure to Notify
 
“The obligation to advise opposing counsel of an impending
default is part of an attorney’s responsibility to the court and the legal
profession and takes precedence over the obligation to represent the client
effectively.” (Shapell Socal Rental Properties, LLC v. Chico's FAS, Inc.
(2022) 85 Cal.App.5th 198, 213, citing Lasalle v. Vogel (2019) 36
Cal.App.5th 127, 134, 137.) “The ethical obligation to warn opposing counsel of
an intent to take a default is now reinforced by a statutory policy that all
parties ‘cooperate in bringing the action to trial or other disposition.’
[Citation.] Quiet speed and unreasonable deadlines do not qualify as
‘cooperation’ and cannot be accepted by the courts.” (Lasalle v. Vogel
(2019) 36 Cal.App.5th 127, 137.)
 
The Bisno Parties argue that Plaintiff’s counsel improperly
failed to notify their counsel, Robert (who represents himself in pro per, and
the remaining Bisno Parties as their counsel of record), prior to seeking entry
of default.  This argument is without merit.
 
On March 30, 2024, Plaintiff’s counsel sent Robert an email
that stated as follows: “Furthermore, please consider this a warning under
Lasalle v. Vogel, (2019) 36 Cal. App. 5th 127. File your responsive pleading on
time! Your response is due April 10, 2024. Have a great Easter weekend.”
(Willoughby Decl. ¶¶ 7-9.)
 
On April 8, 2024, Plaintiff’s counsel emailed Robert again,
stating: “If you have a motion to file, I suggest you file it. Please consider
this your second warning under Lasalle v. Vogel, (2019) 36 Cal. App. 5th
127. If you do not file your responsive pleading on time, we will file a
request for entry of default. Your response is due April 10, 2024.” (Willoughby
Decl. ¶¶ 10-12, Ex. C.)
 
On April 9, 2024, Plaintiff’s counsel again emailed Robert,
stating: “This is your final warning pursuant to Lasalle v. Vogel,
(2019) 36 Cal. App. 5th 127. If you do not file your responsive pleading on
time, we will file a request for entry of default. Your response is due April
10, 2024. You have exhausted your good will with our office.” (Willoughby Decl.
¶¶ 13-15, Ex. D.)
 
The Court finds that Plaintiff’s counsel satisfied their
duty to notify opposing counsel of their intent to seek entry of default.
 
Mandatory Relief under Code of Civil Procedure, section 473 (b) 
 
Relief from default is mandatory where the default was
entered as a result of the party’s attorney’s mistake. (Code Civ. Proc., § 473
(b).)
 
Here, Robert has provided a declaration stating that his
mistake in withdrawing the First Anti-SLAPP and failing to fire the Second
Anti-SLAPP on time was the cause of the entry of default against his clients,
the other Bisno Parties.
 
Relief from default is therefore mandatory as to all of the
Bisno Parties other than Robert.
 
Permissive Relief Under Code of Civil Procedure, section 473 (b) 
 
            Permissive
relief remains available as to Robert, because the default entered against him
appears to be a result of his mistake or excusable neglect. Robert withdrew the
First Anti-SLAPP in order to remedy defects raised in Plaintiff’s opposition
and failed to re-file it in time. While this does appear to be some type of
neglect, it is hardly inexcusable. The Court therefore grants permissive relief
from default in light of the policy in favor of determining actions on their
merits.