 Case Number:  24CMCV01360    Hearing Date:   December 12, 2024    Dept:  A SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES – SOUTH CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



JOHN ROE,
                    Plaintiff(s), 
          vs.
 
TILLMAN
   FAMILY DAYCARE INC.,
 
                    Defendant(s).


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


      CASE NO: 24CMCV01360
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER GRANTING PLAINTIFF’S MOTION FOR TRIAL PREFERENCE
 
Dept.
  A
 
DATE:
  December 12, 2024
TIME:
  8:30 A.M. 
 
COMPLAINT
  FILED: 09/03/2024
TRIAL:
  None set
 



 
1.    
Background
This action arises from the alleged negligent supervision
of a minor. Plaintiff John Roe (“Plaintiff”), a minor, alleges in the complaint
that Tillman Family Daycare Inc. (“Defendant”) negligently failed to supervise
Plaintiff and another minor, leading to the second minor sexually assaulting
Plaintiff.  The complaint alleges a cause
of action for negligence.
2.    
Motion
for Trial Preference
Plaintiff contends that John Roe is five years old and
has a substantial interest in the case, as the injured party, and therefore the
court must grant trial preference within 120 days under Code of Civil Procedure
section 36, subdivision (b).
In opposition, Defendant argues that Plaintiff’s
motion for trial preference was brought for an improper purpose: to harass
Defendant’s counsel and force a settlement. Defendant also argues that no
discovery has yet taken place in this case, and so granting the motion for
trial preference would prejudice Defendant and deny Defendant its due process
rights. In the alternative, Defendant requests that, if the court is inclined
to grant the motion for trial preference, the trial should be set for the
outermost limit of the 120-day period.
3.    
Motion
for Trial Preference Standards
A
civil action to recover damages for wrongful death or personal injury shall
be entitled to preference upon the motion of any party to the action who is
under 14 years of age unless the court finds that the party does
not have a substantial interest in the case as a whole. (Code Civ. Proc., § 36,
subd. (b), emphasis added; Peters v. Superior Court (1989) 212
Cal.App.3d 218, 223-224.)  Subdivision
(b) of section 36 was intended by the legislature to be mandatory, leaving no
discretion to the court.  (Rice v. Superior
Court (1982) 136 Cal.App.3d 81; Pabla v. Superior Court (2023) 90
Cal.App.5th 599, 604.)  That the statute
makes it mandatory that the court give preference to a civil case to recover
damages for personal injury upon the motion of a party under 14 years old does
not violate the separation of powers doctrine, and serves the legitimate
legislative purpose of insuring timely court access to children under 14 who
have suffered personal injury.  (Peters,
supra.)
4.     Discussion

 It is indisputable that Plaintiff, as the
injured party in this case, holds a substantial interest in the case as a
whole. While the court acknowledges that Defendant will be subject to
accelerated discovery and may be prejudiced if a trial preference is granted, the
legislature has presumably taken into account the potential for prejudice to
defendants in enacting Code of Civil Procedure §36, and has literally given “preference”
to children under 14 so that they are able to adjudicate their claims without
the delay caused by our overburdened courts. Defendant’s reliance on Polibrid
Coatings, Inc. v. Superior Court (2003) 112 Cal.App.4thh 920, 923 is not
persuasive, as that case addressed fast track rules, not a motion for trial preference
brought under Code of Civil Procedure §36.   
Contrary to
Defendant’s assertion, there is no evidence before the court that the motion
for trial preference was brought for the purposes of harassment or any other
improper purpose.  Counsel for Plaintiff did
not threaten to bring the instant motion should Defendant not settle the
matter, instead, according to Defendant’s recitation of the facts, Plaintiff’s
counsel plainly advised counsel for Defendant that the motion would be filed immediately,
as is Plaintiff’s right as granted by the legislature.  That the advisement came during an apparently
contentious exchange does not give rise to an inference that the motion was
brought for improper purposes or to harass Defendant or its counsel.  In any event, the court has found no such exception
that would serve to confer discretion upon the court to deny the motion even under
such circumstances.  
5.    
Conclusion

Based on the
foregoing, the court GRANTS Plaintiff’s motion for trial preference. The court
and the parties are to discuss the trial date and a discovery and motion
schedule at the hearing on this matter.

Plaintiff is ordered to give notice. 
DATED: December 12, 2024
 
 
 

 

Hon. Elizabeth L. Bradley
Judge of the Superior Court