 Case Number:  24CMUD01321    Hearing Date:   December 12, 2024    Dept:  A SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES – SOUTH CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



LOS ANGELES COUNTY DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY,
                     Plaintiff, 
           vs.
 
ZELDA
   SLATER,
 
                     Defendant.


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


      CASE NO: 24CMUD01321
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER GRANTING PLAINTIFF’S MOTION FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT
 
Dept.
  A
 
DATE:
  December 6, 2024
TIME:
  8:30 A.M. 
 
COMPLAINT
  FILED: 08/16/2024
TRIAL:
  None set
 



 
1.    
Background
This is an unlawful detainer case. Plaintiff Los
Angeles County Development Authority (Plaintiff) alleges in its complaint that
defendant Zelda Slater (Defendant) refuses to vacate its property at 230 East
130th St. # 219, Los Angeles, CA 90061 (the Property).  Plaintiff alleges Defendant unlawfully occupies
the Property and refuses to leave. 
Defendant began living on the Property pursuant to a live-in caregiver
agreement, which authorized her to live on the Property while serving as
caregiver for tenant Sandra McCoy, a former tenant of the Property who is now
deceased.  
Plaintiff moves for summary judgment on the grounds
that Defendant is not a tenant and has no right to occupy the Property.  Plaintiff contents that Plaintiff and McCoy
had a valid lease under which McCoy was the only authorized tenant.  During McCoy’s tenancy, Plaintiff approved
her reasonable accommodation request to allow Defendant to reside in the
Property as McCoy’s live-in aide.  Defendant
and McCoy acknowledged in the live-in aide agreement that Defendant was not a
tenant and the agreement conferred no right of tenancy to Defendant.  The agreement also provided that if McCoy
died, Defendant would vacate the property. 
McCoy has died and Defendant has refused to vacate the Property, despite
having been duly served with a five-day notice to vacate.
           No written opposition to the motion or
evidentiary objections have been filed as of December 11, 2024.
2.    
Motion
for Summary Judgment standards
The function of a motion for summary judgment or
adjudication is to allow a determination as to whether an opposing party cannot
show evidentiary support for a pleading or claim and to enable an order of
summary dismissal without the need for trial. (Aguilar v. Atlantic
Richfield Co.
(2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 843.) In analyzing motions for summary judgment, courts
must apply a three-step analysis: “(1) identify the issues framed by the
pleadings; (2) determine whether the moving party has negated the opponent's
claims; and (3) determine whether the opposition has demonstrated the existence
of a triable, material factual issue.” (Hinesley v. Oakshade Town Center (2005) 135 Cal.App.4th 289, 294.) Summary
judgment is proper “if all the papers submitted show that there is no triable
issue as to any material fact and that the moving party is entitled to judgment
as a matter of law.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (c).) When a plaintiff seeks
summary judgment, they must produce admissible evidence on each element of each
cause of action on which judgment is sought. (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd.
(p)(1).) The moving party’s “affidavits must cite evidentiary facts, not legal
conclusions or ‘ultimate’ facts” and be strictly construed. (Scalf v. D. B. Log Homes,
Inc.
(2005) 128 Cal.App.4th 1510, 1519; Hayman v. Block (1986) 176 Cal.App.3d 629, 639.)  
The opposing party on a motion for summary
judgment is under no evidentiary burden to produce rebuttal evidence until the
moving party meets his or her initial movant’s burden. (Binder v. Aetna Life
Insurance Company
(1999) 75 Cal.App.4th 832.) Once the initial movant’s burden is met, then the
burden shifts to the opposing party to show, with admissible evidence, that
there is a triable issue requiring the weighing procedures of trial. (Code Civ.
Proc., § 437c, subd. (p).) The opposing party may not simply rely on their
allegations to show a triable issue but must present evidentiary facts that are
substantial in nature and rise beyond mere speculation. (Sangster v. Paetkau (1998) 68 Cal.App.4th 151.) 
3.    
Undisputed
Facts

On June 1, 2020, Plaintiff and McCoy entered into a
lease agreement for the Property. (Lopez Decl., Ex. 1.) During her tenancy,
McCoy requested and received a reasonable accommodation requesting that
Defendant be approved to reside in the Property in order to be McCoy’s live-in
aide. (Lopez Decl., ¶ 11.) On May 25, 2022, Defendant executed the Housing
Authority of the County of Los Angeles Live-In Aide Agreement. (Lopez Decl.,
Ex. 3.) Pursuant to the Live-In Aide Agreement, Defendant agreed that her permission
to reside at the Property would terminate immediately once her duty as a
live-in aide ceased as a result of McCoy’s death or any other reason. (Lopez
Decl., Ex. 3.) On June 17, 2024, Plaintiff became aware that McCoy had passed
away on June 8, 2024. (Lopez Decl., ¶ 15.) On June 27, 2024, Plaintiff issued
Defendant a Five Days’ Notice to vacate by personal service and by mail. (Lemus
Decl., Ex. 1; Craddock Decl., ¶ 3.) Defendant has failed to vacate the
Property. (Lopez Decl., ¶ 18.)
4.    
Discussion
The elements
of an unlawful detainer action are as follows: (1) Plaintiff owns the property;
(2) Defendant rented the property from Plaintiff for a term less than life; (3)
Plaintiff gave the tenant proper written notice that the tenancy was ending;
and (4) the tenant is still occupying the property. (Code Civ. Proc.,§ 1161.)
Here, the
lease agreement between Plaintiff and McCoy expressly states that McCoy was the
sole person with authority to occupy the premises. (Lopez Decl., Ex. 1.) Although
Plaintiff granted McCoy’s reasonable accommodation request, the Live-In Aide
Agreement provides that Defendant was given permission to reside in the
Property only until her services as a live-in aide to McCoy ceased. (Lopez
Decl., Ex. 3.) After learning that McCoy died on or about June 8, 2024, Plaintiff
caused a Five-Day Notice to Vacate to be served on Defendant on June 27, 2024.
(Lemus Decl., Ex. 1.) Defendant has  failed to vacate the Property (Lopez Decl., ¶¶
15, 18), despite having no legal right to occupy it.
Because
Plaintiff has proven each element of the cause of action, Plaintiff has met its
burden to establish that no triable issue of material fact exists and it is
entitled to judgment as a matter of law. 
Although the burden has shifted to Defendant, Defendant has not demonstrated
that a triable issue of one or more material facts exists as to Plaintiff’s cause
of action or any defense thereto. 
5.    
Conclusion

Based on the
foregoing, the court GRANTS Plaintiff’s motion for summary judgment.
 

Moving party is ordered to give notice. 
 
 
DATED: December 12, 2024
 
 
 

 

Hon. Elizabeth L. Bradley
Judge of the Superior Court