 Case Number:  24CMCP00134    Hearing Date:   December 12, 2024    Dept:  A SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES – SOUTH CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



QUALITY LOAN SERVICE CORP.,
                    Petitioner, 
          vs.
 
ALL
   CLAIMANTS TO SURPLUS FUNDS,
 
                    Respondents.


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


      CASE NO: 24CMCP00134
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER DENYING PETITIONER’S MOTION TO DISCHARGE PETITIONER AND DEPOSIT SURPLUS
  FUNDS
 
Dept.
  A
 
DATE:
  December 12, 2024
TIME:
  8:30 A.M. 
 
PETITION
  FILED: 09/11/2024
TRIAL:
  None set
 



 
1.    
Background
This is a trustee’s sale action. Petitioner Quality
Loan Service Corp. (“Petitioner”) is the trustee of a deed of trust executed by
Lula Russell, secured by the property located at 1343 West 98th Street, Los
Angeles, CA 90044 (the “Property”). The Property was sold at a foreclosure sale
on February 28, 2024 as the result of a default. The sale proceeds exceeded the
amount of funds owed under the deed of trust.
2.    
Motion
to Deposit Surplus Funds
Petitioner contends it has been unable to reasonably
determine how the surplus funds from the foreclosure sale should be distributed
and seeks to deposit said surplus funds with the Clerk of the Court, pursuant
to Civil Code section 2924j, subdivision (c).
On September 30, 2024, Asset Recovery, Inc. (“Asset
Recovery”) filed a claim to the surplus funds, based on an assignment of rights
from Dillard L. Russell and Lula Russell. 

3.    
Motion
to Deposit Surplus Funds Standards
Within 30 days of a trustee’s sale of a real property
resulting in sale proceeds in excess of amounts owed, the trustee shall send
written notice to all persons with an interest in the real property who would
be entitled to notice. (Civ. Code, § 2924j, subd. (a).) The notice shall inform
such person of the following: 
“(1) That there has been a trustee's sale of the
described real property. 
(2) That the noticed person may have a claim to all or
a portion of the sale proceeds remaining after payment of the amounts required
by paragraphs (1) and (2) of subdivision (a) of Section 2924k. 
(3) The noticed person may contact the trustee at the
address provided in the notice to pursue any potential claim. 
(4) That before the trustee can act, the noticed
person may be required to present proof that the person holds the beneficial
interest in the obligation and the security interest therefor.”
(Id., subd. (a)(1)-(4).)
If the trustee is unable to reasonably determine how
the surplus funds should be distributed, the trustee may file a declaration of the unresolved
claims and deposit the portion of the funds that cannot be distributed with the
clerk of the superior court of the county in which the sale occurred. (Id.,
subd. (c).) Before filing a motion to deposit surplus funds, the trustee must
mail notice of its intent to do so to all claimants of record. (Id.,
subd. (d).)
 
4.     Discussion
Petitioner states that it mailed the notice
required under Civil Code section 2924j to all claimants of record; in
particular, Lula Russell and Dillard L. Russell, the prior owners of the
Property. Petitioner states that did not receive a claim from any claimants,
and therefore cannot reasonably determine who is entitled to surplus funds.
Petitioner filed a declaration containing all information required by Civil
Code section 2924j, subdivision (c). Petitioner states that “[s]hould no claims
be filed with the Court, the funds shall escheat to the State of California as
unclaimed property.”
Asset Recovery filed a claim with the court on
September 30, 2024, contending that Lula Russell and Dillard L. Russell have assigned
their interest in the Property to Asset Recovery. In support of this
contention, Asset Recovery includes the Transfer and Assignment of Rights to
Claim Surplus Proceeds from Foreclosure Sale executed by each of Lula Russell
and Dillard L. Russell. (Fox Decl. Ex. A; Ex. B.) The claim was filed within
thirty days of the filing of the Petition on September 11, 2024, and is therefore
timely.
Additionally, as written on the transfer and
assignment of rights documents, the address of each of the Russells is at 13734
Bayberry St., Victorville, CA 92342, which differs from the address to which
Petitioner mailed its proofs of service, which is Asset Recovery’s office at
910 16th St, Suite 624, Denver, CI 80202 and not Lula Russell or
Dillard L. Russell’s residential address. Petitioner therefore did not
adequately mail proof of service of the Petition to Lula Russell and Dillard L.
Russell.
As a single claim has been filed with the
court, no conflict exists as to disbursement of the surplus funds. Civil Code
section 2924j, subdivision (c) is therefore inapplicable.

//
//
5.    
Conclusion

Based on the
foregoing, the court DENIES Petitioner’s motion to discharge Petitioner and
deposit surplus funds with the Clerk of the Court.

Petitioner is ordered to give notice. 
 
 
DATED: December 12, 2024
  
Hon. Elizabeth L. Bradley
Judge of the Superior Court