  Case Number:  22CMCV00322    Hearing Date:   December 12, 2024    Dept:  A SUPERIOR COURT
OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY
OF LOS ANGELES – SOUTH CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



JOHN DOE Z.D.,
  et al.,
     Plaintiffs, 
vs.
 
LOS ANGELES
  UNIFIED SCHOOL DISTRICT, et al.,
 
     Defendants.
 
 
________________________________


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


      CASE NO:  22CMCV00322
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER GRANTING PLAINTIFF’S MOTION
  TO QUASH 
 
Dept. A
 
DATE: December 12, 2024
TIME: 8:30 A.M. 
 
COMPLAINT FILED: 09/15/2022
TRIAL: 08/25/2025



1.    
Background
This is an
action arising from a childhood sexual assault. Plaintiff John Doe Z.D. (“Plaintiff”)
alleges in his complaint that defendants Los Angeles Unified School District (“District”)
and Joseph Anthony Gonzalez (collectively, “Defendants”) breached their duty of
care to Plaintiff when Plaintiff was a student at 92nd Street
Elementary School. District failed to investigate the conduct of Gonzalez
towards minor students despite the fact that District knew or should have known
that Gonzalez’s conduct was inappropriate, which resulted in Gonzalez’s sexual
abuse of Plaintiff.
The complaint
alleges causes of action against Defendants for childhood sexual abuse;
intentional infliction of emotional distress; negligent hiring, supervision,
and retention of unfit employee; failure to report suspected child abuse;
negligent supervision of a minor; and negligence.
2.    
Motion to Quash
Plaintiff moves to quash seven deposition subpoenas that District
has issued to third parties with respect to records of Plaintiff. Those
subpoenas are: medical records and billing records from Comprehensive
Community; medical records and billing records from Prime Healthcare; pharmacy
records from CVS-Caremark; pharmacy records from Walgreens Pharmacy; and
pharmacy records from Walgreens Specialty Pharmacy. Plaintiff contends that the
subpoenas are overbroad, as they seek any and all medical records and billing
records rather than being limited to psychological harm.
District opposes Plaintiff’s motion to quash on the
grounds that Plaintiff alleged physical injuries in the complaint and therefore
Plaintiff’s medical records are an appropriate subject of discovery. District
also contends that Plaintiff has waived privacy in his medical records by
claiming mental and physical damages. (Opposition, p. 3.) District further
contends that Plaintiff’s medical records are relevant to the litigation
because Plaintiff’s mental suffering may have a causal link with physical
malady. (Opposition, pp. 4-5.)
In reply, Plaintiff argues that he has dropped the claim
for physical injuries and that District’s search for physical malady that may
have a relation to Plaintiff’s mental suffering is mere speculation, which
cannot be the basis of discovery into private records. Plaintiff also contends
that he has not waived privacy in his medical records by filing suit and alleging
emotional distress.
 
3.    
Motion to Quash Standards
The court can
quash a subpoena to protect a plaintiff from unreasonable or oppressive demands
including unreasonable violations of the right of privacy by motion “reasonably
made.” The court has discretion to quash the subpoena upon such terms or
conditions as the court shall declare, including issuing protective orders. (Code
Civ. Proc., § 1987.1.)
The party
claiming a privacy interest bears the burden of proof on the issue. “The party
asserting a privacy right must establish a legally protected privacy interest,
an objectively reasonable expectation of privacy in the given circumstances,
and a threatened intrusion that is serious.” (Williams v. Superior Court¿(2017)
3 Cal.5th 531, 531.)
Where privacy
rights are implicated, the requesting party must make a threshold showing that
the records sought are directly relevant to the plaintiff’s claims and are
essential to the fair resolution of the lawsuit. (Davis v. Superior Court¿(1992)
7 Cal.App.4th 1008, 1014 (Davis).)  An order compelling disclosure
must be narrowly tailored so as not to infringe on constitutional rights.
Speculation that an answer may recover something helpful does not meet that
threshold burden. (Fults v. Superior Court (1979) 88 Cal.App.3d 899,
901.) 
Even if such a
privacy interest is proven, discovery may still be ordered if a sufficient need
for the information is shown. Moreover, an implicit waiver of a party’s
constitutional rights encompasses “only¿discovery¿directly relevant¿to
the plaintiff's claim and essential to the fair resolution of the lawsuit.” (Davis,
supra, 7 Cal.App.4th at p. 1014.) The scope of permitted
disclosure “must be narrowly circumscribed, drawn with narrow specificity, and
must proceed by the least intrusive manner. (Ibid.) 
4.    
Discussion
The subpoenas
in question seek medical records, billing records, and pharmacy records
pertaining to Plaintiff for the last ten years, requesting production of the
following:
“ANY AND ALL
DOCUMENTS AND RECORDS PERTAINING TO THE CARE, TREATMENT, AND EXAMINATION OF THE
INDIVIDUAL NAMED HEREIN (REFER TO SPECIAL INSTRUCTIONS FOR DATE LIMITATIONS)
INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO ALL MEDICAL RECORDS, OFFICE, ER, PATHOLOGY
RECORDS, INPATIENT AND OUTPATIENT CHARTS AND RECORDS. PRODUCE ALL ELECTRONIC
DISCOVERY RECORDS INCLUDING CORRESPONDENCE AND EMAIL RECORDS, PRESCRIPTIONS
& PATIENT QUESTIONNAIRES. ALL DESCRIPTIONS OF EXERCISES PRESCRIBED AND
DOCUMENTATION WHICH INDICATES DATES AND TIMES OF PATIENT'S APPOINTMENTS.
INCLUDE ALL PHYSICAL THERAPY AND OCCUPATIONAL THERAPY NOTES, NURSES' NOTES,
FLOW CHARTS AND PROGRESS NOTES.”
“Any and all
itemized statements of charges and payment transactions pertaining to the care,
treatment and examination of the individual named herein (refer to special
instructions for date limitations) including but not limited to all billing,
invoices, statements, and insurance billing/claims. Also, any and all medical
bills, medical billing records, billing adjustments, liens, explanation of
benefits statements, correspondence relating to billing, records showing
write-offs of amounts billed, billing write-downs, billing write-ups and
records of payment(s) by insurance carriers, governmental entities, and/or any
other person or entity from any and all sources.”
“Any and all
documents, records, prescriptions, and other memoranda pertaining to the
issuance and sale of prescription drugs to the individual named herein,
including all original doctor's prescription forms and any other pharmacy
records (Please refer to the special instructions for limitations to the scope
of documents being requested).”
(Shirdel Decl.
Ex. 2; Ex. 3.)
Plaintiff
argues, and District concedes, that medical records are typically protected
under the constitutional right to privacy. (Opposition, p. 3.) District contends
that Plaintiff has waived his right to privacy in his medical records by
alleging physical, emotional, and mental suffering in the complaint. However,
under Britt v. Superior Court (1978) 20 Cal.3d 844, waiver of privacy in
medical records is limited to the conditions which have been put at issue by
bringing the lawsuit. Plaintiff has expressly waived any right to seek damages
based on physical injuries as opposed to mental or emotional injuries.  As a result, Plaintiff’s right to privacy outweighs
District’s claim to an entitlement to conduct discovery into Plaintiff’s physical
condition for the purpose of investigating whether or how it may have caused or
contributed to Plaintiff’s mental or emotional injuries claimed in this action.  
Though the
court grants Plaintiff’s motion to quash the deposition subpoenas at issue,
this order is without prejudice to District’s ability to conduct discovery into
Plaintiff’s physical condition should discovery into Plaintiff’s mental or
emotional injuries reasonably implicate a nexus between those mental and
emotional injuries claimed in this action any specific physical condition that
is not claimed as a damage in this action, thus placing Plaintiff’s physical
condition at issue.  
5.    
Conclusion
Based on the
foregoing, the court GRANTS Plaintiff’s motion to quash. Defendant may re-serve
subpoenas on Comprehensive Community, Prime Healthcare, CVS-Caremark, Walgreens
Pharmacy, and Walgreens Specialty Pharmacy with a narrower scope limited to Plaintiff’s
remaining claims, consistent with this order.
Plaintiff is
ordered to give notice.
DATED:
December 12, 2024
    
Hon.
Elizabeth L. Bradley
Judge of
the Superior Court