 Case Number:  20STCV02815    Hearing Date:   September 21, 2023    Dept:  27 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Kerry Bensinger, Department 27
 
 
HEARING DATE:     September
21, 2023               TRIAL DATE:  Vacated
                                                           
CASE:                                Patricia Knox v. Rosalind Wesey, et al.
 
CASE NO.:                 20STCV02815
 





















 
PETITION
TO CONFIRM COMPROMISE WITH SPECIAL NEEDS TRUST



 
MOVING PARTY:               Petitioner
Danny Barnes
 
RESPONDING PARTY:     No opposition 
 
 
            Claimant,
Patricia Ann Knox, a person with a disability, by and through her guardian ad
litem, Petitioner, Danny Barnes, has agreed to settle her claims against Defendants Rosalind and
Akindeji Wesey in exchange for $300,000. 
If approved, $15,549.38 will be used for medical expenses, $120,000 will
be used for attorney’s fees, $67,886.36 will be used for other expenses,
leaving a balance of $112,113.64, to be paid or transferred to the trustee of a
special needs trust established under Probate Code section 3604 for the benefit
of the Claimant.
 
            After
the Probate Department reviewed the Petition, the Court issued a ruling on
August 4, 2023.  The Court could not
approve the Petition because Petitioner sought to establish a “pooled” special
needs trust but provided only the joinder agreement and illegible “screenshots”
of other documents.  The Court continued
the Petition and ordered Petitioner to file the master agreement, joinder
agreement, and all relevant documents, as well as legible copies of any
document relevant to the creation of the proposed trust.
 
            On
August 7, 2023, Petitioner lodged the proposed trust instrument and related
documents.  
 
            Upon
review, the Court finds the settlement to be fair and reasonable, as is the
request for attorney’s fees.  The Court
further finds Petitioner has substantiated the request to use $67,886.36 of the
settlement to pay for other expenses.  
 
            As
required by Probate Code section 3604, subdivision (b), the Court also makes
the following findings: 
 
            1.
Claimant has a disability that substantially impairs her ability to provide for
her own care or custody and constitutes a substantial handicap.
 
            2.
Claimant is likely to have special needs that will not be met without the
trust.
 
            3.  The money to be paid to the trust does not
exceed the amount that appears reasonably necessary to meet Claimant’s special
needs.
 
However, the Petition cannot be
approved for the following reasons:
 
·        
The
proposed trust instrument does not meet the requirements of CRC rule 7.903(c)(6):
Petitioner is directed to submit a new proposed Joinder Agreement that complies
with CRC 7.903(c)(6) which require the trustee to file accounts and reports for
court approval in the manner and frequency required by Probate Code sections
1060 et seq. and 2620 et seq. 


·        
The proposed trust instrument does
not contain the following term as required by LASC rule 4.116(b)(4): The
trustee may not borrow money, lend money, give security, lease, convey, or
exchange any property of the estate without prior authorization of the court.
(Prob. Code, § 2550.)
 
·        
The proposed Joinder Agreement
contains a deficient term providing that upon the trust beneficiary’s death,
any assets remaining in the trust account after payback of the state(s) shall
be paid to a named individual.  This is
improper estate planning for an incapacitated adult.  A proper trust term would state that any
remaining trust assets, after payback to the state(s), should be paid to the
trust beneficiary’s “heirs at law.”


·        
A bond is required for a trustee
unless the trustee is a corporate fiduciary. 
(California Rules of Court, Rule 7.903(c)(5), Probate Code section
2320.)  Here, the proposed initial
trustee is the non-profit organization that created the pooled SNT, Legacy
Enhancement.  Petitioner requests $0 in
bond.  However, Legacy Enhancement does
not meet the definition of a corporate fiduciary.  As such, a proper bond calculation based upon
the assets to be funded into the trust, plus anticipated annual income from
investments and any annuity, plus an additional amount required for the costs
of any recovery on the bond, would be $130,000.


·        
Petitioner has not filed proof of
service demonstrating that the required three state agencies were notified of
this hearing.
 
·        
The proposed order, filed 5/18/23,
is deficient for the following reasons:
-
 Trust terms are not included as required
under Probate Code section 3604(a).
-
 Continued court jurisdiction has not
been conferred as required under Probate Code section 3604(a).
-
The proposed order is deficient because it fails to require that the first
trust accounting take place in one year nor does it set a 14 month calendar due
date.
-
The proposed order is deficient because it does not require the filing of a
Notice of Commencement of Proceedings for a Court Supervised Trust on LASC Form
PRO 044 within 60 days.
-
The proposed order is deficient because it does not set an OSC in this
department in approximately 60 days to ensure funding of settlement, submission
of bond if required, purchase of annuity if relevant, and filing of LASC Form
PRO 044 to open trust supervision action in probate.
 
            Accordingly, the Petition is
CONTINUED to October 27, 2023 at 1:30 p.m.  Petitioner is to file a revised Trust
Instrument, Joinder Agreement, proposed order, and proof of service of this Petition
consistent with this order no later than 5 court days before the rescheduled
hearing.
 
Moving party to give notice. 

 
 
Dated:   September 21,
2023                                   ___________________________________
                                                                                    Kerry
Bensinger
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court
 
            Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must send an
email to the Court at SSCDEPT27@lacourt.org indicating intention to submit on
the tentative as directed by the instructions provided on the court website at
www.lacourt.org.  Please be advised that if you submit on the tentative
and elect not to appear at the hearing, the opposing party may nevertheless
appear at the hearing and argue the matter.  Unless you receive a
submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume that others
might appear at the hearing to argue.  If the Court does not receive
emails from the parties indicating submission on this tentative ruling and
there are no appearances at the hearing, the Court may, at its discretion,
adopt the tentative as the final order or place the motion off calendar. 
 
 