 Case Number:  22STCV24974    Hearing Date:   September 21, 2023    Dept:  27 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Kerry Bensinger, Department 27
 
 
HEARING DATE:      September 21, 2023                                   TRIAL
DATE:  January 31, 2024
                                                           
CASE:                                Sylvester Lamar Byers v. David Serrano, et al.
 
CASE NO.:                 22STCV24974
 





















 
MOTIONS
TO COMPEL RESPONSES TO DISCOVERY 



 
MOVING PARTY:               Defendant
David Serrano and Sylvia Calzada
 
RESPONDING PARTY:     No opposition
 
 
I.          BACKGROUND
 
            On February 21, 2023, Defendants, David Serrano and Sylvia
Calzada, filed these motions to compel Plaintiff,
Sylvester Lamar Byers, to provide verified responses to Form Interrogatories,
Set One, Special Interrogatories, Set One, and Demand for Production of
Documents, Set One.  Defendants seek
sanctions against Plaintiff.
 
The motions are unopposed.
 
II.        LEGAL STANDARDS TO COMPEL RESPONSES TO
DISCOVERY
 
If a party to
whom interrogatories and inspection demands were directed fails to serve a
timely response, the propounding party may move for an order to compel
responses without objections.  (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 2030.290, subd. (b), 2031.300, subd. (b).)  Failure to timely serve
responses waives objections to the requests.  (Code Civ. Proc., §§
2030.290, subd. (a), 2031.300, subd. (a).)   
 
Monetary Sanctions 
 
Code of Civil
Procedure section 2023.030 is a general statute authorizing the Court to impose
discovery sanctions for “misuse of the discovery process,” which includes
(without limitation) a variety of conduct such as: making, without substantial
justification, an unmeritorious objection to discovery; making an evasive
response to discovery; and unsuccessfully and without substantial justification
making or opposing a motion to compel or limit discovery.  (Code Civ.
Proc., § 2023.010.)  
 
If sanctions are
sought, Code of Civil Procedure section 2023.040 requires that the notice
specify the identity of the person against whom sanctions are sought and the
type of sanction requested, that the motion be supported in the points and
authorities, and the facts be set forth in a declaration supporting the amount
of any monetary sanction. 
 
If the court finds that a party has unsuccessfully made
or opposed a motion to compel responses to interrogatories or inspection
demands, the court “shall impose a monetary sanction . . . unless it finds that
the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that
other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.”  (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 2030.290, subd. (c),
2031.300, subd. (c).)  In the context of a motion to deem requests
for admission admitted, it is mandatory that the court impose monetary
sanctions on the party or attorney, or both, whose failure to serve a timely
response to the request necessitated the motion.  (Code Civ. Proc., §
2033.280, subd. (c).)
 
III.      DISCUSSION
 
Defendants
served Plaintiff with the at-issue discovery requests on September 15, 2022.  Responses were due October 20, 2022.  When no responses were served, defense
counsel met and conferred with Plaintiff’s counsel about the discovery
responses.  Plaintiff’s counsel
represented responses would be provided.  However, to date, Plaintiff has not provided
responses.  (See Zegel Decls.)  Therefore,
all objections to the interrogatories and demands for production are
waived.  
 
As Defendants
properly served the discovery requests and Plaintiff failed to serve responses,
the Court finds Defendants are entitled to an order directing Plaintiff to
provide responses to Set One of Defendants’ Form
Interrogatories, Special Interrogatories, and Demand for Production of
Documents.¿ 
 
Monetary
Sanctions
            Defendants request sanctions against Plaintiff.  Given that the Court has granted these
motions, sanctions are warranted.  Accordingly,
sanctions are imposed against Plaintiff in the amount of $705 representing 3
hours at defense counsel’s hourly rate and $180 in filing fees.
IV.       CONCLUSION 
 
The motions are granted.  
 
Plaintiff Sylvester Lamar Byers is ordered to provide
verified, objection-free responses to Set One of Defendants’ Form
Interrogatories, Special Interrogatories, and Demand for Production of
Documents. 
            
The request for sanctions is granted.  Plaintiff is ordered to pay sanctions in the
amount of $705 to Defendants, by and through their counsel.
 
Discovery responses are to be provided and sanctions are to
be paid within 30 days of this order.  
 
Moving party to give notice. 

 
 
 
Dated:   September 21,
2023                                                   ___________________________________
                                                                                    Kerry
Bensinger
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court
 
            Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must send an
email to the Court at SSCDEPT27@lacourt.org indicating intention to submit on
the tentative as directed by the instructions provided on the court website at
www.lacourt.org.  Please be advised that if you submit on the tentative
and elect not to appear at the hearing, the opposing party may nevertheless
appear at the hearing and argue the matter.  Unless you receive a
submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume that others
might appear at the hearing to argue.  If the Court does not receive
emails from the parties indicating submission on this tentative ruling and
there are no appearances at the hearing, the Court may, at its discretion,
adopt the tentative as the final order or place the motion off calendar. 