  Case Number:  19STCV08313    Hearing Date:   September 21, 2023    Dept:  27 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Kerry Bensinger, Department 27
 
 
HEARING DATE:      September 21, 2023                                   TRIAL
DATE:  February 27, 2024
                                                           
CASE:                                Cecilia Cecena, et al. v. Lee Spencer, et al.
 
CASE NO.:                 19STCV08313
 





















 
MOTION
TO BE RELIEVED AS COUNSEL



 
MOVING PARTY:               Michael
S. Trabish, Esq. 
 
RESPONDING PARTY:     No opposition
 
 
I.          INTRODUCTION
 
On August 22, 2023, Michael S. Trabish, counsel for Plaintiff
Hares Fazli, filed this Motion to be Relieved as Counsel.  
 
II.        LEGAL STANDARDS 
 
California Rule of Court rule 3.1362 (Motion to Be Relieved
as Counsel) requires (1) notice of motion and motion to be directed to the
client (made on the Notice of Motion and Motion to be Relieved as Counsel—Civil
form (MC-051)); (2) a declaration stating in general terms and without
compromising the confidentiality of the attorney-client relationship why a
motion under Code of Civil Procedure section 284(2) is brought instead of
filing a consent under Code of Civil Procedure section 284(1) (made on the Declaration
in Support of Attorney's Motion to Be Relieved as Counsel—Civil form (MC-052));
(3) service of the notice of motion and motion and declaration on all other
parties who have appeared in the case; and (4) the proposed order relieving
counsel (prepared on the Order Granting Attorney's Motion to Be Relieved as
Counsel—Civil form (MC-053)). 
 
The court has discretion to allow an attorney to withdraw,
and such a motion should be granted provided that there is no prejudice to the
client, and it does not disrupt the orderly process of justice.  (See Ramirez v. Sturdevant (1994) 21
Cal.App.4th 904, 915.)  
 
III.       DISCUSSION 
 
Michael S. Trabish seeks to be relieved as counsel of record
for Plaintiff Hares Fazli for the following reasons: “The Motion of Michael S.
Trabish to be relieved as counsel is necessary because Plaintiff Hares Fazli
has stated that he believes (1) Michael S. Trabish is a liar, not trustworthy,
deceitful, unethical, and simply a “bad” person. He made these statements at a
meeting to Marshall Silberberg, Esq. and Will Collins, Esq., on July 5, 2023.
The meeting was held at the law offices of Marshall Silberberg, in Irvine, CA.
At this meeting, Mr. Fazli told the other attorneys that “he did not want me to
be present” and that “he does not want me to represent him in this case.”
During the meeting, Mr. Fazli did not look at me and deliberately avoided me.
Mr. Fazli has refused to talk to me for since in or about January, 2023. His
fiancé has told me that I was to communicate with her, not Mr. Fazli.”  (MC-052.) 
 
 
Absent a showing of resulting prejudice, an attorney’s
request for withdrawal should be granted.  (People v. Prince (1968) 268 Cal.App.2d
398, 406.).  
 
Upon review, the Court finds the Motion complies with Rules
of Court, rule 3.1362.
 
IV.       CONCLUSION         
            The
Motion is granted and effective upon the filing of the proof of service of this
signed order upon Plaintiff.
            Counsel to
give notice.  
 
Dated:   September 21,
2023                                                   ___________________________________
                                                                                    Kerry
Bensinger
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court
 
            Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must send an
email to the Court at SSCDEPT27@lacourt.org indicating intention to submit on
the tentative as directed by the instructions provided on the court website at
www.lacourt.org.  Please be advised that if you submit on the tentative
and elect not to appear at the hearing, the opposing party may nevertheless
appear at the hearing and argue the matter.  Unless you receive a
submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume that others
might appear at the hearing to argue.  If the Court does not receive
emails from the parties indicating submission on this tentative ruling and
there are no appearances at the hearing, the Court may, at its discretion,
adopt the tentative as the final order or place the motion off calendar. 
 