  Case Number:  23TRCV03493    Hearing Date:   November 22, 2024    Dept:  P Motion  for Leave to Intervene   Moving  Party: Proposed  Intervenor Mercury Insurance Company    Responding Party: None   RULING   Having  considered the moving papers, the motion for leave to intervene is GRANTED.PROCEDURAL BACKGROUND   On October 19, 2023, Plaintiff Pablo Flores (“Plaintiff”) filed a  complaint against Defendants Sean Rodriguez (“Rodriguez”); Marie Schafer d/b/a/  AV Bingo Supply; Marie Schafer; and DOES 1-20 (collectively, “Defendants”)  alleging causes of action for (1) Motor Vehicle and (2) General Negligence.   On November 4, 2024, Mercury Insurance Company (“Proposed Intervenor”)  filed the instant motion.   FACTUAL BACKGROUND   This is a  personal injury accident arising out of an automobile accident. (Motion, p. 3,  line 3.) Since July 2024, defense counsel has attempted to get Rodriguez to  respond to discovery requests, but Rodriguez is uncooperative. (Motion, pp. 3-4.)  Defense counsel warned Rodriguez that he was being sued in his individual  capacity, but Rodriguez refused to cooperate unless counsel went through his  employer. (Motion, p. 3, lines 23-27.)    Defense  counsel hired an investigator who determined that Rodriguez moved to Kansas  after the passing of his father. (Motion, p. 4, lines 2-7.) Proposed Intervenor  also hired an investigator, but Rodriguez has not been located. (Motion, p. 5,  lines 6-24.)   Proposed  Intervenor filed the instant motion because Rodriguez is its insured, and it  has a direct interest in the suit.   LEGAL STANDARD             California Code of Civil Procedure section 387, subd. (a) provides that,  “[u]pon timely application, any person, who has an interest in the matter in  litigation, or in the success of either of the parties, or an interest against  both, may intervene in the action or proceeding. An intervention takes  place when a third person is permitted to become a party to an action or  proceeding between other persons, either by joining the plaintiff in claiming  what is sought by the complaint, or by uniting with the defendant in resisting the  claims of the plaintiff, or by demanding anything adversely to both the  plaintiff and the defendant, and is made by complaint, setting forth the grounds  upon which the intervention rests, filed by leave of the court and served upon  the parties to the action or proceeding who have not appeared in the same  manner as upon the commencement of an original action, and upon the attorneys  of the parties who have appeared, or upon the party if he has appeared without  an attorney, in the manner provided for service of summons or in the manner  provided by Chapter 5 (commencing with Section 1010) Title 14 of Part  2.”    To establish a direct and immediate interest in the litigation for  purposes of permissive intervention, a non-party seeking intervention must show  that he or she stands to gain or lose by direct operation of the judgment, even  if no specific interest in the property or transaction at issue exists. (Simpson  Redwood Co. v. State of California (1987) 196 Cal.App.3d 1192,  1201.) “Whether the intervener’s interest is sufficiently direct must be  decided on the facts of each case. . . And section 387 should be liberally  construed in favor of intervention.”(Id. at p. 1200.)  “In order that a  party may be permitted to intervene it is not necessary that his interest in  the action be such that he will inevitably be affected by the judgment. It is  enough that there be a substantial probability that his interests will also be  so affected. ‘The purposes of intervention are to protect the interests of  those who may be affected by the judgment.’” (Timberidge Enterprises, Inc.  v. City of Santa Rosa (1978) 86 Cal.App.3d 873, 881-882 [citations and  emphasis omitted].)    DISCUSSION               Moving Party’s Argument   Proposed Intervenor argues that this motion is necessitated because  Rodriguez is unresponsive, and it will be difficult to defend the action  without his cooperation.    Merits of the Motion   “Intervention may . . . be allowed in the insurance context, where third  party claimants are involved, when the insurer is allowed to take over in  litigation if its insured is not defending an action, to avoid harm to the  insurer.”  (Royal Indemnity Co. v. United Enterprises, Inc. (2008) 162  Cal.App.4th 194, 206.)  For example, insurers have been permitted to intervene  when the third party has obtained a default against the insured (Jade K.  v. Viguri (1984) 210 Cal.App.3d 1459, 1473-1474), or where the insured’s  answer has been stricken because its corporate status has been suspended (Reliance  Insurance Co. v. Superior Court (2000) 84 Cal.App.4th 383, 385-387).    Here, Proposed Intervenor asserts that it has a direct interest in the  lawsuit, as it will have to pay compensatory damages subject to policy  limitations if Plaintiff prevails. Further, its involvement will not enlarge  the issues raised by the original parties, because Plaintiff’s claims remain  unchanged. Proposed Intervenor simply seeks to intervene so that it may raise a  proper defense in light of Rodriguez’s refusal to cooperate.   As Rodriguez has not been located and is unlikely to cooperate  regardless, intervention ensures there is a fair process against him.   The court finds that Proposed Intervenor has a direct interest in the  case, and its involvement will not enlarge the issues.   Thus, the motion is GRANTED.   CONCLUSION              Based on the foregoing, the motion for leave to intervene is GRANTED.   Prevailing party on motion is ordered to give notice of ruling.