

 
            The
attorney for Defendant/Cross-Complainant
Genesis Health Services Inc. dba Fountain Hospice’s counsel – Jeremy Alberts of
BWA Law Group APC – seeks to be relieved as counsel of record. Plaintiff Yem
filed an opposition. 
 
            The motion
to be relieved as counsel is granted.    
 
Discussion
 
            An attorney is entitled to withdraw
upon the consent of the client, or without that consent if approved by the
court. (Code Civ. Proc., § 284; Ramirez v. Sturdevant (1994) 21
Cal.App.4th 904, 915.) In the latter case, counsel must make a motion to be
relieved as attorney of record.  The
motion must be made using mandatory forms: Notice of Motion and Motion to be
Relieved as Counsel – Civil (MC-051), Declaration (MC-052), and Proposed Order
(MC-053). (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1362, subd. (a), (b), (e).) 
 
            The declaration accompanying the
motion to be relieved as counsel must state “in general terms and without
compromising the confidentiality of the attorney-client relationship why a
motion under Code of Civil Procedure section 284(2) is brought instead of
filing a consent under Code of Civil Procedure section 284(1).” (Cal. Rules of
Court, rule 3.1362, subd. (b).)
 
            The notice to the client must be
done by personal service, electronically, or mail. If it is done via mail under
Code of Civil Procedure section 1013, it must be accompanied by a declaration
confirming the service address to be the most current residence or that it is
the client’s last known address, and the attorney has been unable to locate a
more current address. (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1362, subd. (d)(1)(A)-(B).) 
 
            Here, Attorney Alberts has complied with the Rules of Court by filing all the
appropriate forms (MC-051, MC-052, and MC-053). He has also submitted a
supporting declaration providing an adequate explanation for why he is moving
to be relieved as counsel; he asserts that there has been a breakdown in the working relationship.
 
Further, Form MC-052 indicates that notice was provided to Defendant
via mail and his client’s address was confirmed by Secretary of State website. 
 
Additionally, trial in this matter is not set until July 28,
2025, and the next hearing is a Motion for Protective Order for July 25, 2024, a
motion which pertains to discovery propounded by Defendants Spring River
Palliative Care, Inc., Ocean Breeze Hospice & Palliative Care Corp. and Genesis Health Services. Thus, no prejudice will
result from granting this motion where there is adequate time to retain new
counsel. 
 
Lastly, Plaintiff Yem filed an objection to the withdrawal
on the grounds that as an owner and director of Genesis Health Services she is
entitled to Attorney Alberts’ “file.” This objection is not well taken and has
no bearing on the grounds the Court must consider when assessing whether a
motion to be relieved as counsel should be granted.           
 
Alberts’s motion to be relieved as counsel of Genesis Health
Services is granted.  
 