 Case Number:  22GDCV01057    Hearing Date:   May 24, 2024    Dept:  E Hearing Date: 05/24/2024 – 8:30am
Case No. 22GDCV01057
Trial Date: 12/16/2024
Case Name: MARIA GALVAN, an individual; v.
INTERNATIONAL COFFEE & TEA HOLDINGS, LLC, and DOES 1-25 inclusive


TENTATIVE
RULING ON MSJ/MSA
 
BACKGROUND
Plaintiff, Maria Galvan, filed her Complaint on 12/19/2022 alleging two
causes of action for (1) negligence and (2) premises liability against
Defendant, International Coffee and Tea Holdings LLC.
 
Plaintiff alleges
that she was a patron at Defendant’s The Coffee Bean & Tea Leaf (Premises)
and was walking inside of the store when she slipped and fell in a large puddle
of soapy water on the floor. (Compl. ¶ 7.) 
 
Plaintiff alleges
that Defendant knew or should have known that the slippery substance on the
surface of the floor of the store aisle constituted a dangerous condition. (Id.)
 
The hearing on the
instant MSJ/MSA was initially scheduled for 5/10/2024, but the 4/3/2024 Minute
Order indicates that this hearing was continued to 5/24/2024.
 
RELIEF
REQUESTED¿ 
“Defendant INTERNATIONAL COFFEE & TEA, LLC [erroneously sued herein
as “INTERNATIONAL COFFEE & TEA HOLDINGS LLC”] (“Coffee Bean” or
“Defendant”), will, and hereby does, move for summary judgment against the
above-captioned action brought by Plaintiff, MARIA GALVAN (“Plaintiff”)
pursuant to California Code of Civil Procedure § 437(c), on Plaintiff’s causes
of action for Negligence and Premises Liability asserted within the Complaint.
 
The motion is made on the grounds that there
are no triable issues of material fact as to Plaintiff’s causes of action
against Defendant and Defendant is thus entitled to judgment as a matter of law
because: (1) Plaintiff admits she had prior notice of the allegedly dangerous
condition; and (2) Defendant therefore had no duty to warn Plaintiff because
she already knew it existed and decided to walk on it anyway, thereby resulting
in the subject alleged slip and fall incident.
 
Alternatively, and for the same reasons that
warrant summary judgment for Defendant as to the entirety of the Complaint,
Defendant will move for an order granting summary adjudication pursuant to
California Code of Civil Procedure § 437c, subds. (f)(1) and (f)(2), as to each
of the causes of action contained in Plaintiff’s Complaint: (1) Defendant is
entitled to summary adjudication on Plaintiff’s first cause of action for
Negligence on the grounds that no triable issue of material fact exists as to
Defendant’s lack of duty; and (2) Defendant is entitled to summary adjudication
on Plaintiff’s second cause of action for Premises Liability for the same
reasons.
 
The motion is based on this Notice, the
attached Memorandum of Points and Authorities, the Separate Statement of
Undisputed Material Facts, the Declaration of Emanuel Caros, on the papers and
pleadings on file with this honorable Court herein, and upon such evidence and
argument as may be presented at the hearing of the motion.”
 
(Def. Mot. p. 1-2.)
 
Procedural
Moving Party: Defendant, International Coffee & Tea, LLC
[erroneously sued as International Coffee & Tea Holdings LLC] (Coffee Bean,
Defendant, or Movant)
 
Responding
Party: Plaintiff, Maria Galvan
 
Moving
Papers: Notice/Motion; Separate Statement; Carlos Declaration; Proposed Order; Notice
of Lodgment of Evidence; 
 
Opposing
Papers: Opposition; Separate Statement; Glotzer Declaration
 
Reply
Papers: Reply; Reply Separate Statement
 
Section 437c(a)(2)
Under Code of Civil Procedure (“CCP”) section
437c(2), notice of the motion and supporting papers shall be served on all
other parties to the action at least 75 days before the time appointed for
hearing. If the notice is served by mail, the required 75-day period of notice
shall be increased by 5 days if the place of address is within the State of
California. (Code Civ. Proc., §437c(a)(2).)
Here, Defendant’s motion is timely.
Section 437c(a)(3)
“The motion shall be heard no
later than 30 days before the date of trial, unless the court for good cause
orders otherwise. The filing of the motion shall not extend the time within
which a party must otherwise file a responsive pleading.” (CCP § 437c(a)(3).)
Here, Defendant’s motion is timely.
LEGAL STANDARD MOTION SUMMARY JUDGMENT
The
function of a motion for summary judgment or adjudication is to allow a
determination as to whether an opposing party cannot show evidentiary support
for a pleading or claim and to enable an order of summary dismissal without the
need for trial. (Aguilar v. Atlantic
Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 843.) 
Code of Civil Procedure § 437c(c) “requires the trial
judge to grant summary judgment if all the evidence submitted, and ‘all
inferences reasonably deducible from the evidence’ and uncontradicted by other
inferences or evidence, show that there is no triable issue as to any material
fact and that the moving party is entitled to judgment as a matter of
law.”  (Adler v. Manor Healthcare Corp. (1992) 7 Cal.App.4th 1110,
1119.)  “The function of the pleadings in
a motion for summary judgment is to delimit the scope of the issues; the
function of the affidavits or declarations is to disclose whether there is any
triable issue of fact within the issues delimited by the pleadings.” (Juge v. County of Sacramento (1993) 12
Cal.App.4th 59, 67, citing FPI
Development, Inc. v. Nakashima (1991) 231 Cal. App. 3d 367, 381-382.)
As to each claim as framed by the complaint, the
defendant moving for summary judgment must satisfy the initial burden of proof
by presenting facts to negate an essential element, or to establish a defense.
(CCP § 437c(p)(2); Scalf v. D. B. Log
Homes, Inc. (2005) 128 Cal.App.4th 1510, 1520.) The plaintiff or
cross-complainant shall not rely upon the allegations or denials of its
pleadings to show that a triable issue of material fact exists, but instead,
shall set forth the specific facts showing that a triable issue of material
fact exists as to the cause of action or a defense thereto. (CCP § 437c(p)(2).)
Courts “liberally construe the evidence in support of the party opposing
summary judgment and resolve doubts concerning the evidence in favor of that
party.”  (Dore v. Arnold Worldwide, Inc. (2006) 39 Cal.4th 384, 389.)
“Once the
defendant or cross-defendant has met that burden, the burden shifts to the
plaintiff or cross-complainant to show that a triable issue of one or more
material facts exists as to the cause of action or a defense thereto. The
plaintiff or cross-complainant shall not rely upon the allegations or denials
of its pleadings to show that a triable issue of material fact exists but,
instead, shall set forth the specific facts showing that a triable issue of
material fact exists as to the cause of action or a defense thereto.” (CCP § 437c(p)(2).)
To establish a triable issue of material fact, the
party opposing the motion must produce substantial responsive evidence
sufficient to establish a triable issue of material fact on the merits of the
defendant’s showing. (Sangster v. Paetkau
(1998) 68 Cal.App.4th 151, 163.)
LEGAL STANDARD – Negligence and Premises
Liability
Elements of Premises Liability &
Negligence
In
order to succeed on a cause of action for negligence, plaintiffs have the
burden of proving the following essential elements: 
(1) the defendant had a
legal duty to conform to a standard of conduct to protect the plaintiffs;
(2) the defendant failed
to meet this standard of conduct; 
(3) the defendant’s
failure was the proximate or legal cause of the resulting injury; and 
(4) the plaintiffs were
damaged. 
(See United States Liab. Ins. Co. v.
Haidinger-Hayes, Inc. (1970) 1 Cal.3d 586, 594.)
The elements of a
cause of action for premises liability are the same as those for negligence. (Jones
v. Awad (2019) 39 Cal.App.5th 1200, 1207 citing Castellon v. U.S.
Bancorp (2013) 220 Cal.App.4th 994, 998.) Accordingly, the plaintiff must
prove a legal duty to use due care, a breach of such legal duty, and the breach
as the proximate or legal cause of the resulting injury. (Jones v. Awad,
supra, 39 Cal.App.5th at 1207 citing Beacon Residential Community Assn. v.
Skidmore, Owings & Merrill LLP (2014) 59 Cal.4th 568, 573.) 
ANALYSIS
Duty
Although
not entirely clear, Defendant appears to be moving for summary judgment on the
premise that based on the facts, Plaintiff cannot establish that a duty existed
as a matter of law.
Duty, as explained in Jacobs v. Coldwell Banker
Residential Brokerage Co.:
Whether a duty should be imposed on a
defendant depends on a variety of policy considerations, known as the Rowland factors.
(Rowland v. Christian (1968) 69 Cal.2d 108, 112-113, 70 Cal.Rptr.
97, 443 P.2d 561 (Rowland ).) These factors include, inter
alia, the foreseeability of harm to the plaintiff, the burden  to the
defendant and the consequences to the community of imposing the duty. (Ibid.; Osborn
v. Mission Ready Mix (1990) 224 Cal.App.3d 104, 121-122, 273 Cal.Rptr.
457 (Osborn ) [“Duty ... depends on various policy
considerations, the most important of which is the foreseeability of injury to
another”].) “The court's task in determining whether a duty exists ‘is not to
decide whether a particular plaintiff's injury was reasonably foreseeable in
light of a particular defendant's conduct, but rather to evaluate more
generally whether the category of negligent conduct at issue is sufficiently
likely to result in the kind of harm experienced that liability may
appropriately be imposed on the negligent party.’ [Citation.]” (Elsheref
v. Applied Materials, Inc. (2014) 223 Cal.App.4th 451, 459-460, 167
Cal.Rptr.3d 257, italics omitted.) “Foreseeability, when analyzed to determine
the existence or scope of a duty, is a question of law to be decided by the
court.” (Ann M. v. Pacific Plaza Shopping Center (1993) 6 Cal.4th
666, 678, 25 Cal.Rptr.2d 137, 863 P.2d 207, superseded by statute on other
grounds as stated in Saelzler v. Advanced Group 400 (2001) 25
Cal.4th 763, 767-768, 107 Cal.Rptr.2d 617, 23 P.3d 1143; accord, Ericson
v. Federal Express Corp. (2008) 162 Cal.App.4th 1291, 1300, 77
Cal.Rptr.3d 1.)
(Jacobs v. Coldwell Banker Residential
Brokerage Co. (2017) 14 Cal.App.5th 438, 446-447.)
Further, foreseeability of harm is
typically absent when a dangerous condition is open and obvious. (Jacobs v.
Coldwell Banker Residential Brokerage Co. (2017) 14 Cal.App.5th 438, 447
citing Osborn v. Mission Ready Mix (1990) 224 Cal.App.3d 104, 114-121.) 
“Generally, if a danger is so obvious that
a person could reasonably be expected to see it, the condition itself serves as
a warning, and the landowner is under no further duty to remedy or warn of the
condition.” (Jacobs v. Coldwell Banker Residential Brokerage Co. (2017)
14 Cal.App.5th 438, 447 quoting Krongos v. Pacific Gas & Electric Co. (1992)
7 Cal.App.4th 387, 393.)
Defendant argues that Plaintiff
immediately observed and became aware of the allegedly dangerous condition upon
entering the store; therefore, Defendant had no duty to warn Plaintiff of the
alleged dangerous condition that caused the incident because she already knew
it existed before the incident occurred.
To support this argument, Defendant
submitted Plaintiff’s response to Defenant’s SROG 54 (Ex. D) and Plaintiff’s
Response to Defendant’s RFAs 18 and 20 (Ex. E).
In relevant part of response to SROG 54,
Plaintiff responded:
Plaintiff entered the Coffee Bean store
located at 763 Americana Way, Glendale, CA 91210 at approximately 7:15 p.m. on
April 27, 2021. Upon entering the store, the floor appeared to be freshly
mopped/cleaned by Defendant. The floor appeared wet, soapy and shiny. There
were no caution or warning signs and other safety measures taken to warn
customers of the dangerous hazard. It was impossible to enter the store without
traversing the wet, soapy and shiny store as the whole floor appeared in this
condition. Plaintiff proceeded to stand in line to place her order with the
intention of advising the cashier that the floor was in a dangerous condition
and Defendant needed to put up caution or warning signs or take other safety
measures to warn customers of the dangerous hazard. However, the customers in
line ahead of Plaintiff and her son advised the cashier of the same thing.
After purchasing her drink, Plaintiff recalls walking towards the table area
with her drink in hand when she slipped and fell on the freshly mopped/cleaned
floor which appeared wet, soapy and shiny and could not be avoided. As a result
of the manner in which Defendant cleaned the floor, there was no safe
pedestrian path for customers to travel without coming into contact with the
wet floor. Defendant created the dangerous condition and failed to warn
Plaintiff of the dangers.
(Ex. D. Response
SROG 54.)
As to RFA 18:
REQUEST FOR ADMISSION NO. 18: 
Admit that before the INCIDENT, YOU saw
the dangerous condition, as described in YOUR COMPLAINT allegedly involved in
the INCIDENT. 
RESPONSE TO REQUEST FOR ADMISSION NO. 18: 
Objection. Plaintiff objects that this
request is vague, ambiguous, unintelligible, calls for a legal conclusion and
calls for an expert opinion. However, without waiving said objections,
Plaintiff responds as follows: Admit, in part, Deny in part.
(Ex. E. RFA 18.)
As to RFA 20:
REQUEST FOR ADMISSION NO. 20: 
Admit that YOU walked through the
dangerous condition, as described in YOUR COMPLAINT, at the time of the
INCIDENT, knowing that there was a risk of injury. 
RESPONSE TO REQUEST FOR ADMISSION NO. 20: 
Objection. Plaintiff objects that this
request is vague, ambiguous, unintelligible, calls for a legal conclusion and
calls for an expert opinion. However, without waiving said objections,
Plaintiff responds as follows: Admit, in part, Deny in part.
(Ex. E. RFA 20.)
Although Defendant
argues that it had no duty to warn Plaintiff because Plaintiff knew of the
dangerous condition before the incident, Defendant acknowledges that there is
an exception to this rule.
That exception is
stated in Jacobs v. Coldwell Banker Residential Brokerage Co.:
An exception to this general rule exists
when “it is foreseeable that the danger may cause injury despite the fact that
it is obvious (e.g., when necessity requires persons to encounter it).” (Osborn, supra,
224 Cal.App.3d at p. 122, 273 Cal.Rptr. 457, italics omitted.) In other words,
while the obviousness of the condition and its dangerousness may obviate the
landowner's duty to remedy or warn of the condition in some situations, such
obviousness will not negate a duty of care when it is foreseeable that, because
of necessity or other circumstances, a person may
choose to encounter the condition. 
(Jacobs v.
Coldwell Banker Residential Brokerage Co. (2017) 14 Cal.App.5th 438, 447.)
Defendant argues
that this exception does not apply in this case because there was no necessity
or requirement that Plaintiff walk on a wet floor in a coffee shop. Defendant
argues that based on the case law applying the exception, Plaintiff’s
circumstances in no way justified or necessitated her to walk on a floor that
she knew was wet and believed was in a dangerous condition. 
Defendant cites to
Osbourne v. Mission Ready Mix (1990) 224 Cal.App.3d 104, 123, where plaintiff’s
employment required him to pass across a dangerous area in order to complete
his work and Florez v. Groom Development Co. (1959) 53 Cal.2d 347,
358-359, where plaintiff’s only path to complete his job requirements was
across a dangerous plank.
Here, the Court
does not find Defendant’s argument availing that the exception to the general
rule does not apply.
First, neither
party makes it clear if the exception to the general rule is determined as a
matter of law or determined by the trier of fact.
Jacobs v. Coldwell
Banker Residential Brokerage Co. seems to indicate whether or not the
exception applies (i.e., because of necessity or other circumstances, a
person may choose to encounter the condition) is for the trier of fact. “The
issue is whether there is any evidence from which a trier of fact could find
that, as a practical necessity, Jacobs was foreseeably required to expose
himself to the danger of falling into the empty pool.” (Jacobs v. Coldwell
Banker Residential Brokerage Co. (2017) 14 Cal.App.5th 438, 447.)
If whether or not
the exception applies is determined by the trier of fact, there is sufficient
evidence to demonstrate there is a triable issue of fact.
First, based on evidence
that Defendant itself submitted, Plaintiff responded to SROG 54 in relevant
part by stating, “It was impossible to enter the store without traversing the
wet, soapy and shiny store as the whole floor appeared in this condition.” Therefore,
it appears that Plaintiff encountered “necessity or other circumstances, [that
Plaintiff] may choose to encounter the condition..” (Jacobs v. Coldwell
Banker Residential Brokerage Co. (2017) 14 Cal.App.5th 438, 447.)
Second, Plaintiff
also submitted evidence to establish a triable issue of material fact as to
whether there was necessity or other circumstances wherein a person may choose
to encounter the condition. 
Plaintiff’s
counsel, Joshua Glotzer, submitted the deposition transcript of Plaintiff as
Exhibit A to the Glotzer Declaration.
Plaintiff stated
she entered the store entrance. (See Ex. A. p. 16.) When asked if there were
any other entrances to the store, Plaintiff stated, “If  there is, maybe its not accessible to
patrons, maybe just to the people that work there. But the one that I went to
was one for customers. And I believe it’s on the street side, which is Brand
Avenue.” (Id.) [The Court notes that Defendant did not object to Plaintiff’s
deposition transcript that was submitted in opposition.]
To the extent that Defendant is arguing that Plaintiff’s actions fail
as a matter of law based on the application of facts to law, Defendant’s
argument is also unavailing on those grounds.
Defendant’s separate statement argues that Plaintiff has offered no
evidence that she was required by any work or job-related obligation or
necessity to encounter the wet floor. (Def. UMF 10.) Defendant also argues that
Plaintiff has offered no evidence that she was required to expose herself to
the danger of the wet floor. (Def. UMF 11.)
Defendant also argues in Reply that every case cited by Plaintiff’s
Opposition describes “necessity” arising from an obligation, such as employment
or job duties, and requires that the plaintiff be compelled to encounter the
dangerous condition, not merely choose to do so.
The Court does not find Defendant’s argument availing. Defendant fails
to address the case of Martinez v.
Chippewa Enterprises, Inc. (2004) 121 Cal.App.4th 1179 (Martinez), which was cited by
Plaintiff.
In Martinez, Plaintiff slipped on wet pavement, and the trial court granted
summary judgment in favor of defendant Chippewa Enterprises, Inc. on the grounds
that defendant didn’t owe plaintiff a duty of care with respect to the open and
obvious condition of water on the ground. (Id. at 1181.) In Martinez, defendant offered excerpts of plaintiff’s deposition in which she
stated she had seen the wetness of the driveway before she walked on it. (Id. at 1183.)
The court of appeal in Martinez ruled that the trial court’s decision was incorrect. While the court of
appeal noted that the trial court was correct to rule that the hazard was open
and obvious, the court of appeal noted:
. . . that the
hazard was open and obvious did not relieve defendant of all possible duty, or
breach of duty, with respect to it. In the trial court and again here,
defendant argued only that the obvious appearance of the wet pavement excused
defendant from a duty to warn of it. That was most likely so. But the
obviousness of a condition does not necessarily excuse the potential duty of a
landowner, not simply to warn of the condition but to rectify it. The modern
and controlling law on this subject is that “although the obviousness of a
danger may obviate the duty to warn of its existence, if it is foreseeable that
the danger may cause injury despite the fact that it is obvious (e.g., when
necessity requires persons to encounter it), there may be a duty to remedy the
danger, and the breach of that duty may in turn form the basis for
liability....” (Osborn v. Mission
Ready Mix (1990) 224 Cal.App.3d 104, 122, 273 Cal.Rptr. 457;
see id. at p. 121, 273 Cal.Rptr. 457; Beauchamp
v. Los Gatos Golf Course (1969) 273 Cal.App.2d 20,
33, 77 Cal.Rptr. 914.)
The court's
analysis therefore was incomplete, and led to a premature conclusion of no duty
and therefore no liability. The palpable appearance of the wetness may itself
have provided a warning of the slippery condition, excusing defendant from
having to do so. But it may yet have been predictable that despite that
constructive warning, the wet pavement would still attract pedestrian use. For
example, the pavement appears to have provided a principal if not sole access
way from the street to defendant's building, which housed a government office
serving the public. In these circumstances—which the evidence did not negative,
but supported—defendant may have been charged with a duty of relieving the
dangerous condition. Whether such a duty existed depends upon a number of as
yet unresolved factors, such as the foreseeability of harm, defendant's advance
knowledge vel non of the dangerous condition, and the burden of discharging the duty.
(See Rowland v. Christian (1968) 69 Cal.2d 108, 113, 70 Cal.Rptr. 97, 443 P.2d 561.) The facts
presented on the motion for summary judgment, some of them in direct conflict
(e.g., the source of the water), did not permit resolution of this question of
duty in defendant's favor.
(Martinez, supra, 121 Cal.App.4th at 1184-1185.)
Based on Martinez, it does not appear that—as a matter of law—Plaintiff had to offer
evidence that she was required by work or job-related obligations to encounter
the wet floor. In Martinez, plaintiff drove and accompanied her brother to his appointment at the
Immigration and Naturalization Service (INS) office situated in defendant’s
building. (Id. at 1182.) Based on Martinez, it does not appear that Plaintiff had to be “compelled” to encounter
the dangerous condition as Defendant argues.
Further, while Defendant’s Reply focuses on the language in Jacobs that “when
necessity requires persons to encounter [a dangerous condition],” Jacobs also states, “In
other words, while the obviousness of the condition and its dangerousness may
obviate the landowner's duty to remedy or warn of the condition in some
situations, such obviousness will not negate a duty of care when it is
foreseeable that, because of necessity or other circumstances, a person may
choose to encounter the condition.” (Jacobs v. Coldwell Banker Residential
Brokerage Co. (2017) 14 Cal.App.5th 438, 447.) Therefore, Jacobs indicates not
only necessity, but also through “ . . . other circumstances, a person may
choose to encounter the condition.” (Id.)
This makes sense. That a coffee shop (for argument’s sake) had an
open-and-obvious puddle on the ground may obviate a legal duty to warn of that
obvious hazard, but would not, one would imagine, obviate the need for the
coffee shop to rectify the situation with reasonable promptness, especially if
the coffee shop was busy, well trafficked, etc. 
(See Martinez, supra, 121 Cal.App.4th at 1184-1185.)
 
TENTATIVE
RULING MOTION
For the reasons explained above, Defendant’s motion
for summary judgment/adjudication on Plaintiff’s causes of action for
negligence and premises liability is DENIED. 