 Case Number:  24GDCV00017    Hearing Date:   May 24, 2024    Dept:  E Hearing Date: 5/24/2024-8:30am
Case No. 24GDCV00017
Trial Date: UNSET
Case Name: AUDI FINANCIAL SERVICES v.
HOVHANNES A. BAGHDASARYAN; an individual; and DOES 1-10 inclusive
 
WRIT
OF POSSESSION
RELIEF REQUESTED
Plaintiff applies for a “Writ of possession after hearing (Code Civ. Proc,
(C.C.P.), § 512.010).” (Pl. App. p. 1.)
BACKGROUND
Plaintiff, Audi
Financial Services, filed a Complaint on 1/4/2024 alleging two causes of action
for (1) Breach of Contract and (2) Claim and Delivery against Defendant,
Hovhannes A. Baghdasaryan.
This
action surrounds allegations by Plaintiff that Defendant defaulted under the
terms of the Retail Installment Sale Contract Simple Interest Finance Charge
Agreement (Agreement) that Defendant entered into with Audi Calabasas when Audi
Calabasas sold Defendant the subject vehicle. (See Compl. ¶ 6.)
PROCEDURAL
Moving
Party: Plaintiff,
Audi Financial Services
Responding
Party: No Opposition by Defendant Hovhannes A. Baghdasaryan
Moving Papers: Notice
of Application for Writ of Possession and Hearing; Application for Writ of
Possession After Hearing [Not served according to proof of service]; Perez
Declaration; Proof of Service of Summons
Opposition Papers: No
Opposition
Reply Papers: No Reply
Proof of Service
Timely Filed (CRC Rule 3.1300): Ok
16/21 Court Days Lapsed (CCP 1005(b)): Ok
Proper Address (CCP § 1013, § 1013a) : Uncertain – On
eCourt there is no address for Defendant. Defendant has not appeared yet.
Legal Standard Writ of Possession
A writ of possession is
issued as a provisional remedy in a cause of action for claim and delivery,
also known as replevin. (See Pillsbury, Madison & Sutro v. Schectman
(1997) 55 Cal.App.4th 1279, 1288.) 
“Upon the filing of the
complaint or at any time thereafter, the plaintiff may apply pursuant to this
chapter for a writ of possession by filing a written application for the writ
with the court in which the action is brought.” (CCP § 512.010(a).)
Pursuant to CCP §
512.010(b), the application shall be executed under oath and shall include the
following:
(1) A showing of the
basis of the plaintiff’s claim and that the plaintiff is entitled to possession
of the property claimed. If the basis of the plaintiff’s claim is a written
instrument, a copy of the instrument shall be attached.
 
(2) A showing that the
property is wrongfully detained by the defendant, of the manner in which the
defendant came into possession of the property, and, according to the best
knowledge, information, and belief of the plaintiff, of the reason for the
detention.
 
(3) A particular
description of the property and a statement of its value.
 
(4) A statement,
according to the best knowledge, information, and belief of the plaintiff, of
the location of the property and, if the property, or some part of it, is
within a private place which may have to be entered to take possession, a
showing that there is probable cause to believe that such property is located
there.
 
(5) A statement that
the property has not been taken for a tax, assessment, or fine, pursuant to a
statute; or seized under an execution against the property of the plaintiff;
or, if so seized, that it is by statute exempt from such seizure.
 
(CCP § 512.010(b)(1)-(5).)

 
“The requirements of subdivision (b) may be
satisfied by one or more affidavits filed with the application.” (CCP §
512.010(c).)
 
Prior to the hearing
required by CCP § 512.020(a), the defendant shall be served with all of the
following:
 
(1) A copy of the
summons and complaint.
(2) A Notice of
Application and Hearing.
(3) A copy of the
application and any affidavit in support thereof.
 
(CCP § 512.030(a).)

 
“At the hearing, a writ of
possession shall issue if both of the following are found: (1) The plaintiff
has established the probable validity of the plaintiff’s claim to possession of
the property. (2) The undertaking requirements of Section 515.010 are
satisfied.” (CCP § 512.060(a)(1)-(2).) 
“A
claim has ‘probable validity’ where it is more likely than not that the
plaintiff will obtain a judgment against the defendant on that claim.” (Code
Civ. Proc., § 511.090.)
“No
writ directing the levying officer to enter a private place to take possession
of any property shall be issued unless the plaintiff has established that there
is probable cause to believe that the property is located there.” (CCP §
512.060(b).)
“Except
as provided in subdivision (b), the court shall not issue a temporary
restraining order or a writ of possession until the plaintiff has filed an
undertaking with the court . The undertaking shall provide that the sureties
are bound to the defendant for the return of the property to the defendant, if
return of the property is ordered, and for the payment to the defendant of any
sum recovered against the plaintiff. The undertaking shall be in an amount not
less than twice the value of the defendant’s interest in the property or in a
greater amount. The value of the defendant’s interest in the property is
determined by the market value of the property less the amount due and owing on
any conditional sales contract or security agreement and all liens and
encumbrances on the property, and any other factors necessary to determine the
defendant’s interest in the property.” (CCP § 515.010(a).)
“If
the court finds that the defendant has no interest in the property, the court
shall waive the requirement of the plaintiff’s undertaking and shall include in
the order for issuance of the writ the amount of the defendant’s undertaking
sufficient to satisfy the requirements of subdivision (b) of Section 515.020.”
(CCP § 515.010(b).)

ANALYSIS
Service
Under § 512.030
Prior
to the hearing required by CCP § 512.020(a), the defendant shall be served with
all of the following:
 
(1) A copy of the summons and complaint.
(2) A Notice of Application and Hearing.
(3) A copy of the application and any
affidavit in support thereof.
 
(CCP § 512.030(a).)
 
Here, Plaintiff filed a “Proof of Service of
Summons” on 2/29/2024. This proof of service alleged service on Defendant by
substituted service. In relevant part of § 512.030(a), the proof of service
indicates that the summons, complaint, and notice of application and hearing
was served. Therefore, the requirements of CCP § 512.030(a)(1) and (2) were
met. 
 
However, the requirements of CCP §
512.030(a)(3) were not met. Defendant had to have been served prior to the
hearing with “[a] copy of the application and any affidavit in support
thereof.” Here, while the proof of service indicates service of the declaration
in support of the application for writ of possession, the proof of service does
not indicate that the application itself was served. Since service of a copy of
the application is a requirement under 512.030(a)(3), Plaintiff’s motion should
be DENIED on this ground.
 
Requirements of § 512.010(b)
Pursuant to CCP § 512.010(b), the application shall be executed under oath and
shall include the following:
(1) A showing of the basis of the
plaintiff’s claim and that the plaintiff is entitled to possession of the
property claimed. If the basis of the plaintiff’s claim is a written
instrument, a copy of the instrument shall be attached.
 
(2) A showing that the property is
wrongfully detained by the defendant, of the manner in which the defendant came
into possession of the property, and, according to the best knowledge,
information, and belief of the plaintiff, of the reason for the detention.
 
(3) A particular description of the
property and a statement of its value.
 
(4) A statement,
according to the best knowledge, information, and belief of the plaintiff, of
the location of the property and, if the property, or some part of it, is
within a private place which may have to be entered to take possession, a
showing that there is probable cause to believe that such property is located
there.
 
(5) A statement
that the property has not been taken for a tax, assessment, or fine, pursuant
to a statute; or seized under an execution against the property of the
plaintiff; or, if so seized, that it is by statute exempt from such seizure.

 
(CCP § 512.010(b)(1)-(5).)
 
Here, to support each requirement of § 512.010(b),
Plaintiff submitted the declaration of Lucy Perez. 
 
Perez is employed as an Agent for Plaintiff,
Audi Financial Services. (Perez Decl. ¶ 2.) She states that she reviewed
Plaintiff’s records as they related to Hovhannes A. Baghdasaryan and that all
exhibits attached to her declaration are true and correct copies of Plaintiff’s
records as they are kept in the ordinary course of business. (Id.) 
 
            §
512.010(b)(1)
“A showing of the basis of the plaintiff’s claim and that the plaintiff is
entitled to possession of the property claimed. If the basis of the plaintiff’s
claim is a written instrument, a copy of the instrument shall be attached.”
(CCP § 512.010(b)(1).)
 
Here, Plaintiff appears to have met this
requirement based on the Perez declaration and the attached exhibits to the
Perez declaration.
 
As stated in Perez’s declaration:
 
On or about November 22, 2022, Defendant
Hovhannes A. Baghdasaryan (hereinafter "Defendant"), entered into a
Retail Installment Sale Contract Simple Interest Finance Charge Agreement
(hereinafter referred to as the "Agreement") with Audi Calabasas, as
Seller, and Defendant as Buyer. Audi Calabasas sold to Defendant and Defendant
received possession of, a Vehicle described as a 2023 Audi Q7, Vehicle
Identification Number WA1LXBF79PD003310 (hereinafter "Vehicle"). A
true and correct copy of the Agreement is attached hereto and marked as Exhibit
"1". As part of the Agreement Audi Calabasas assigned all of its
rights, title, and interest under the Agreement to Plaintiff. (See Exhibit
"1").
 
(Perez Decl. ¶ 6.)
 
Further, Perez states:
 
Plaintiff is the lien holder of record on the
subject Vehicle with such lien being duly registered with the California
Department of Motor Vehicles. A true and correct copy of the electronic title
is attached hereto and marked as Exhibit "2".
 
Pursuant to the terms and conditions of the
Agreement, Defendant agreed to pay seventy-one (71) consecutive monthly
installment payments to Plaintiff in the amount of $ 1,361.18, commencing on
January 6, 2023 and one final payment of $ 1,361.18 on December 6, 2028.


Plaintiff has fully performed all promises,
covenants and conditions owed to Defendant under the Agreement. However, from
and since May 6, 2023, Defendant defaulted on their payment obligation to
Plaintiff by failing to make payments when due under the Agreement.
 
(Perez Decl. ¶¶ 7-9.)
 
Further, ¶¶ 13-14 appear to support this
requirement:
 
As a proximate cause of the default of Defendant
in performing under the Agreement by refusing to return the Vehicle, Plaintiff
was entitled to, and did accelerate, the total amount due under the Agreement.
The amount presently due and owing from said Defendant to Plaintiff is
$77,206.08 plus attorney's fees and costs. The account statement reflecting
such accelerated balance due is attached hereto as Exhibit "4". Said
calculations were prepared in the ordinary course of business and reflect
transactions on the subject account which were entered by me or those under my
supervision at, or near, the time of each transaction.
 
As a result of the default and Defendant's
lack of equity in the subject Vehicle, Defendant has no interest in the subject
Vehicle. Accordingly, Plaintiff should not be required to post an undertaking
as set forth in Code of Civil Procedures § 515.010. Furthermore, pursuant to
Code of Civil Procedures § 515.010, Plaintiff requests that Defendant be
required to post an undertaking of $71,647.00 to stay the redelivery of the
Vehicle.
 
(Perez Decl. ¶¶ 13-14.)
 
            § 512.010(b)(2)
“A showing that the property is wrongfully detained by
the defendant, of the manner in which the defendant came into possession of the
property, and, according to the best knowledge, information, and belief of the
plaintiff, of the reason for the detention.” (CCP § 512.010(b)(2).)
Here, Plaintiff appears to have met this requirement. 
See Perez Declaration ¶¶ 6-9.
Further, Perez stated:
Thereafter, Plaintiff demanded that Defendant
return the Vehicle to Plaintiff. Defendant refused and failed to turnover
possession of the Vehicle to Plaintiff.
Plaintiff has been attempting to repossess
the Vehicle. However, Plaintiff has been unsuccessful recovering the Vehicle.
(Perez Decl. ¶¶ 10-11.)
            § 512.010(b)(3)
“A particular description of the property and a statement of its value.”
Here, the description of the property can be seen in ¶ 6
of the Perez declaration.
Further, a statement of its value is described as:
The current estimated wholesale value of the
Vehicle is $61,841.00 and the current estimated retail value of the Vehicle is
$71,647.00, according to present market values and "J.D. Power"
authority. A true and correct copy of "J.D. Power" authority is
attached hereto and marked as Exhibit "3".
(Perez Decl. ¶12.)
            § 512.010(b)(4)
“A statement, according to
the best knowledge, information, and belief of the plaintiff, of the location
of the property and, if the property, or some part of it, is within a private
place which may have to be entered to take possession, a showing that there is
probable cause to believe that such property is located there.” (CCP §
512.010(b)(4).)
Here, Perez states, “Plaintiff
is informed and believes and thereon alleges that the Vehicle is located at the
last known address of Defendant, which is 340 Riverdale Drive, Unit C,
Glendale, CA 91204, including any and all garages and storage facilities
adjacent thereto.” (Perez Decl. ¶ 15.)
Here this requirement is 
            § 512.010(b)(5)
“A statement that the
property has not been taken for a tax, assessment, or fine, pursuant to a
statute; or seized under an execution against the property of the plaintiff;
or, if so seized, that it is by statute exempt from such seizure.” (CCP §
512.010(b)(5).)
Here, the Perez declaration
did not address this requirement. However, the application states, “The claimed
property has not been taken for a tax, assessment, or fine, pursuant to
statute, and (check one):” and a box is checked for “has not been seized under
an execution against the plaintiff’s property.” (See Application ¶ 8.)
Further, the application is
signed by “James Lynch for Audi Financial Services.”
This requirement appears to
have been met if Plaintiff demonstrates service of the application.
Issues at Hearing – §§ 512.060
and 515.10
“At the hearing, a writ of possession shall issue if both
of the following are found: (1) The plaintiff has established the probable
validity of the plaintiff’s claim to possession of the property. (2) The
undertaking requirements of Section 515.010 are satisfied.” (CCP §
512.060(a)(1)-(2).) 
            Probable
Validity
“A claim has ‘probable validity’ where it is more likely
than not that the plaintiff will obtain a judgment against the defendant on
that claim.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 511.090.)
Here Plaintiff appears as if it did establish the
probable validity of Plaintiff’s claim to possession of the property. 
“No writ directing the levying officer to enter a private
place to take possession of any property shall be issued unless the plaintiff
has established that there is probable cause to believe that the property is
located there.” (CCP § 512.060(b).)
            Undertaking
“At the hearing, a writ of possession shall issue if both of the following
are found: (1) The plaintiff has established the probable validity of the
plaintiff’s claim to possession of the property. (2) The undertaking
requirements of Section 515.010 are satisfied.” (CCP § 512.060(a)(1)-(2).) 
“Except as provided in subdivision (b), the court shall
not issue a temporary restraining order or a writ of possession until the
plaintiff has filed an undertaking with the court . The undertaking shall
provide that the sureties are bound to the defendant for the return of the
property to the defendant, if return of the property is ordered, and for the
payment to the defendant of any sum recovered against the plaintiff. The
undertaking shall be in an amount not less than twice the value of the
defendant’s interest in the property or in a greater amount. The value of the
defendant’s interest in the property is determined by the market value of the
property less the amount due and owing on any conditional sales contract or
security agreement and all liens and encumbrances on the property, and any
other factors necessary to determine the defendant’s interest in the property.”
(CCP § 515.010(a).)
“If the court finds that the defendant has no interest in
the property, the court shall waive the requirement of the plaintiff’s
undertaking and shall include in the order for issuance of the writ the amount
of the defendant’s undertaking sufficient to satisfy the requirements of
subdivision (b) of Section 515.020.” (CCP § 515.010(b).)
Here the Court will hear argument as to the undertaking
requirements.
Paragraph 14 of the Perez declaration stated:
As a result of the default and Defendant's
lack of equity in the subject Vehicle, Defendant has no interest in the subject
Vehicle. Accordingly, Plaintiff should not be required to post an undertaking
as set forth in Code of Civil Procedures § 515.010. Furthermore, pursuant to
Code of Civil Procedures § 515.010, Plaintiff requests that Defendant be
required to post an undertaking of $71,647.00 to stay the redelivery of the
Vehicle.
(Perez Decl. ¶ 14.)
The Court notes that it
would like Plaintiff to explain why Defendant has no interest in the subject
vehicle based on how the value is determined in § 515.010(a). The Court points
this out because Perez stated in ¶ 8 that payments commenced on January 6, 2023
and that from and since May 6, 2023 Defendant defaulted on their payment
obligations. Therefore, the Court is curious to know precisely why Defendant
has no interest in the property.
The Court also cites the portions below from the Perez
declaration that may be helpful in determining the undertaking requirements:
As a proximate cause of the default of
Defendant in performing under the Agreement by refusing to return the Vehicle,
Plaintiff was entitled to, and did accelerate, the total amount due under the
Agreement. The amount presently due and owing from said Defendant to Plaintiff
is $77,206.08 plus attorney's fees and costs. The account statement reflecting
such accelerated balance due is attached hereto as Exhibit "4". Said
calculations were prepared in the ordinary course of business and reflect transactions
on the subject account which were entered by me or those under my supervision
at, or near, the time of each transaction.
(Perez Decl. ¶ 13.)
The current estimated wholesale value of the
Vehicle is $61,841.00 and the current estimated retail value of the Vehicle is
$71,647.00, according to present market values and "J.D. Power"
authority. A true and correct copy of "J.D. Power" authority is
attached hereto and marked as Exhibit "3".
(Perez Decl. ¶12.)
No Opposition
While
there is currently no Opposition, if Defendant argues that Plaintiff should not
take possession, the Court cites the following:
(a) The defendant may prevent the
plaintiff from taking possession of property pursuant to a writ of possession
or regain possession of property so taken by filing with the court in which the
action was brought an undertaking in an amount equal to the amount of the
plaintiff’s undertaking pursuant to subdivision (a) of Section 515.010 or in
the amount determined by the court pursuant to subdivision (b) of Section
515.010.
(b) The undertaking shall state that, if
the plaintiff recovers judgment on the action, the defendant shall pay all
costs awarded to the plaintiff and all damages that the plaintiff may sustain
by reason of the loss of possession of the property. The damages recoverable by
the plaintiff pursuant to this section shall include all damages proximately
caused by the plaintiff’s failure to gain or retain possession.
(c) The defendant’s undertaking may be
filed at any time before or after levy of the writ of possession. A copy of the
undertaking shall be mailed to the levying officer.
(d) If an undertaking for redelivery is
filed and the defendant’s undertaking is not objected to, the levying officer
shall deliver the property to the defendant, or, if the plaintiff has
previously been given possession of the property, the plaintiff shall deliver
the property to the defendant. If an undertaking for redelivery is filed and
the defendant’s undertaking is objected to, the provisions of Section 515.030
apply.
(CCP § 515.020(a)-(d).)
TENTATIVE RULING
The
Court tentatively plans to deny this application for writ of possession based
on Plaintiff failing to serve a copy of the application under CCP §
512.030(a)(3). Plaintiff’s proof of service did not indicate that the
application was served. It indicated that the Notice of Application and the
Declaration was served, but it did not indicate that the application itself was
served. If Plaintiff comes forward with a proof of service of the application
itself, it would need to comply with the notice requirements of 1005(b).
The Court will hear argument.
 