 Case Number:  24TRCV03391    Hearing Date:   January 14, 2025    Dept:  8 Tentative
Ruling 
¿ 
HEARING DATE:                 January 14, 2025 
¿ 
CASE NUMBER:                   24TRCV03391
¿ 
CASE NAME:                        Tony Bell; Keyanna
Williams v. Shivam Investments Inc., et al. 

¿ 
MOVING PARTY:                 Defendants, Shivam Investments Inc. and
Carlos Naranjo
 
RESPONDING PARTY:        Plaintiffs,
Tony Bell and Keyanna Williams. 
¿ 
TRIAL DATE:                        Not Set. 
¿ ¿ 
MOTION:¿                              (1) Demurrer 
                                                (2) Motion to Strike
 
Tentative Rulings:                  (1) SUSTAINED with twenty (20)
days leave to amend.
(2) MOOTED. 
 
 
 
I. BACKGROUND¿ 
¿ 
A. Factual¿ 
¿¿ 
On October 9, 2024,
Plaintiffs, Tony Bell and Keyanna Williams (collectively, “Plaintiffs”), filed
a complaint against Defendants, Shivam Investments Inc., Carlos Naranjo, and
DOES 1 through 50. The complaint alleges a cause of action for: (1) Breach
of Implied Warranty of Habitability; (2) Tortious Breach of Implied Warranty of
Habitability; (3) Negligence; (4) Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress;
(5) Violation of Unlawful Business Practices (Business & Professions Code
Section 17200); and (6) Violation of Los Angeles County Code of Ordinances
Section 8.52.130(B).
 
Now, Defendants, Shivam
Investments Inc. and Carlos Naranjo (collectively, “Defendants”) have filed a
demurrer to Plaintiff’s first, second, and fourth causes of action.
 
B. Procedural  
 
On November 22, 2024,
Defendants filed a Demurrer and Motion to Strike portions of Plaintiff’s
complaint. On December 23, 2024, Plaintiffs, Tony Bell and Keyanna Williams,
filed opposition briefs. On December 30, 2024, Defendants filed reply
briefs.  
 
 
II. ANALYSIS ¿ 
 
A.   
Demurrer
 
                                      
i.         
Legal Standard
 
A demurrer
can be used only to challenge defects that appear on the face of the pleading
under attack or from matters outside the pleading that are judicially
noticeable. (Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311, 318.) “To survive a
demurrer, the complaint need only allege facts sufficient to state a cause of
action; each evidentiary fact that might eventually form part of the
plaintiff’s proof need not be alleged.” (C.A. v. William S. Hart Union High
School Dist. (2012) 53 Cal.4th 861, 872.) For the purpose of testing the
sufficiency of the cause of action, the demurrer admits the truth of all
material facts properly pleaded. (Aubry v. Tri-City Hospital Dist.
(1992) 2 Cal.4th 962, 966-967.) A demurrer “does not admit contentions,
deductions or conclusions of fact or law.” (Daar v. Yellow Cab Co.
(1967) 67 Cal.2d 695, 713.)¿¿¿ 
 
A pleading
is uncertain if it is ambiguous or unintelligible. (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10,
subd. (f).) A demurrer for uncertainty may lie if the failure to label the
parties and claims renders the complaint so confusing defendant cannot tell
what he or she is supposed to respond to.¿ (Williams v. Beechnut Nutrition
Corp. (1986) 185 Cal.App.3d 135, 139, fn. 2.) However, “[a] demurrer for
uncertainty is strictly construed, even where a complaint is in some respects
uncertain, because ambiguities can be clarified under modern discovery
procedures.” (Khoury v. Maly's of California, Inc. (1993) 14 Cal.App.4th
612, 616.)¿¿ 
 
                                    
ii.          
Meet and Confer Efforts 
The
declaration of Christopher G. Kerr, Esq. (“Kerr Decl.”), is offered in support
of counsel’s compliance with Code of Civil Procedure section 430.41. Kerr
declares that on November 18, 2024, he spoke on the phone with Plaintiff’s
counsel to meet and confer in advance of the filing of a demurrer and motion to
strike. (Kerr Decl., ¶ 3.) Despite the Counsels’ telephonic meet and confer
efforts, Kerr states that they were unable to come to an agreement. (Kerr
Decl., ¶ 3.)  The Court finds Defendants
have sufficiently met and conferred prior to bringing the demurrer.
                                   
iii.         
Breach of Implied Warranty of
Habitability 
Defendants
demur to Plaintiffs’ first cause of action for Breach of Implied Warranty of
Habitability as against Defendant, Carlos Naranjo (“Naranjo”) on the grounds
that Naranjo is a property manager, and therefore cannot be liable under any
Breach of Contract Theories. 
Plaintiffs’
opposition brief concedes that they take no issue dismissing the first cause of
action for Breach of Implied Warranty of Habitability as to Defendant, Naranjo
only. As such, the demurrer is SUSTAINED with respect to the first cause of
action as to Defendant Naranjo only. 
                                   
iv.         
Tortious Breach of Implied
Warranty of Habitability
Although
Defendants concede Plaintiffs’ first cause of action for Breach of the Implied
Warranty of Habitability (as it pertains to Defendant Shivam Investments Inc.),
correctly states the standard and basis for habitability, they argue the second
cause of action for Tortious Breach of Implied Warranty of Habitability is
merely an attempt to re-plead the first cause of action as through it is a
tort.  In Plaintiffs’ opposition brief,
they also state that they have no issue with the requested dismissal of the
second cause of action. Thus, the Court sustains the demurrer as to the second
cause of action. 
                                     
v.         
Intentional Infliction of
Emotional Distress
Defendants
demur to Plaintiffs’ fourth cause of action for Intentional Infliction of
Emotional Distress on the grounds that Plaintiffs have failed to plead
outrageous conduct or severe emotional distress with specificity, and instead,
merely plead them in a conclusory way.  Defendants
base their arguments on paragraph 44 of the complaint, alleging “Defendants’
conduct intentionally fail[ed] to repair and maintain the Subject Property was
outrageous and beyond all boundaries of decency and reasonable civilized
conduct. Defendants at all times knew and were aware that failing to
repair and maintain the Subject Property would result in PLAINTIFFS suffering
emotional distress and other damages. Defendants at all times acted with
reckless disregard of the probability of causing PLAINTIFFS severe emotional
distress. Defendants intentionally failed to repair and maintain the Subject
Property in an attempt to save money, increase their cash flow, intimidate
PLAINTIFFS into not complaining, and/or to cause PLAINTIFFS to abandon the
Subject Property.” (Complaint, ¶ 44.) 
 
The Court agrees with Defendants
that Plaintiffs’ have alleged “extreme” and “outrageous” conduct in a
conclusory way.  While Defendants fail to
consider that the fourth cause of action incorporates by reference the entirety
of Plaintiffs’ general allegations. (Complaint, ¶ 43), even the very detailed
and specific contentions as to Defendants’ alleged conduct, if proven true, do
not in the Court’s view amount to outrageous conduct that would exceed the
boundaries of decency and in an orderly society.  Many tenants allege vermin or pest infestations,
fungal growth, and failures of landlords to repair in garden-variety
habitability claims.  While there is more
here than the garden variety, the standard for extreme and outrageous
misconduct is higher than what Plaintiffs have alleged thus far.  Thus, this Court SUSTAINS the demurrer with
leave to amend, to allow Plaintiffs to allege more specific allegations of the
“severe” and/or “extreme” emotional distress they have suffered due to
Defendants’ alleged actions, and how the lack of heating or other alleged problems
with the rental unit exceeds all bounds of what one could be expected to
tolerate in our society.  But if
Plaintiffs represent that they can provide more specifics or more detail as to
the extreme and outrageous nature of the alleged misconduct of Defendants, the
Court will permit leave to amend.   
 
B.   
Motion to
Strike 
 
                                      
i.         
Legal Standard 
 
Any party,
within the time allowed to respond to a pleading may serve and file a notice of
motion to strike the whole or any part thereof. (Code Civ. Proc., § 435, subd.
(b)(1).) The court may, upon a motion, or at any time in its discretion, and
upon terms it deems proper, strike any irrelevant, false, or improper matter
inserted in any pleading. (Code Civ. Proc., § 436, subd. (a); Stafford v.
Shultz (1954) 42 Cal.2d 767, 782 [“Matter in a pleading which is not
essential to the claim is surplusage; probative facts are surplusage and may be
stricken out or disregarded”].) The court may also strike all or any part of
any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity with California law, a court
rule, or an order of the court. (Code Civ. Proc., § 436, subd. (b).) An
immaterial or irrelevant allegation is one that is not essential to the
statement of a claim or defense; is neither pertinent to nor supported by an
otherwise sufficient claim or defense; or a demand for judgment requesting
relief not supported by the allegations of the complaint. (Code Civ. Proc., §
431.10, subd. (b).) The grounds for moving to strike must appear on the face of
the pleading or by way of judicial notice. (Code Civ. Proc., § 437.)¿¿ 
 
                                    
ii.          
Discussion 
 
Defendant’s
Motion to Strike seeks to strike allegations and prayer for relief of punitive
damages from Plaintiffs’ complaint. Because Defendants’ basis for striking the paragraphs
pertaining to punitive damages are based, in part, on the same arguments made
in the demurrer, the Court finds that the Motion to Strike is MOOTED as it
pertains to the paragraphs sustained on demurrer. 
 
IV. CONCLUSION

 
Based on
the foregoing, Defendant’s demurrer is SUSTAINED with twenty (20) days leave to
amend. The motion to strike is MOOTED. 
 
Unless
notice is waived, Defendants are ordered to provide notice of this court’s
ruling. ¿ 
 
 