  Case Number:  22TRCV01634    Hearing Date:   January 14, 2025    Dept:  8 Tentative Ruling¿¿ 
¿¿¿ 
HEARING DATE:                 January 14, 2025
¿¿¿ 
CASE NUMBER:                   22TRCV01634
¿¿¿ 
CASE NAME:                        Susan Udewitz; David Udewitz v. South
Coast Botanic Garden Foundation, Inc., et al 
¿¿¿ 
MOVING PARTY:                 Plaintiffs,
Susan Udewitz and David Udewitz
¿¿¿ 
RESPONDING PARTY:        Defendants, South Coast Botanic Garden Foundation, Inc. and
County of Los Angeles
¿¿¿ 
TRIAL DATE:                        March 10, 2025 
¿¿¿ 
MOTION:¿                              (1) Motion to Compel Defendant, South Coast Botanic Garden
Foundation, Inc. to Further Respond to Requests for Production of Documents,
Set Three 
                                                (2) Plaintiffs’
Request for Monetary Sanctions         
                                                (3) SCBGF’s Request
for Monetary Sanctions
 
Tentative Rulings:                  (1) DENIED.  However, if Plaintiff is willing to narrow the
ambit of the requests such that only incident reports relating to slip or trip
and fall incidents, the Court would reconsider the ruling.
                                                (2) DENIED.
                                                (3) DENIED. 
 
 
I. BACKGROUND¿¿¿ 
¿¿¿ 
A. Factual¿¿¿ 
¿¿¿ 
On December 30, 2022, Plaintiff, Susan Udewitz and
David Udewitz (collectively, “Plaintiffs”) filed a Complaint against
Defendants, South Coast Botanic Garden Foundation, Inc, County of Los Angeles,
and DOES 1 through 25. The Complaint alleges causes of action for: (1)
Negligence; and (2) Loss of Consortium.
 
On August 23, 2024, Plaintiffs served upon Defendant
South Coast Botanic Garden Foundation, Inc. (“SCBGF”), Plaintiff’s Requests for
Production of Documents, Set Three. (Declaration of Tom H. Tavoularis II
(“Tavoularis Decl.”), ¶ 2.) On October 8, 2024, SCBGF served its response.
(Tavoularis Decl., ¶ 3.) However, Plaintiff argues that as to Requests for
Production of Documents Nos. 28 and 29, Defendant SCBGF fails to provide
responsive documents even though the scope of her requests have been narrowed. Because
of this, Plaintiff has brought this Motion to Compel Further Discovery as to
Requests for Production of Documents, Nos. 28 and 29. 
 
B. Procedural¿¿¿ 
 
On November 25, 2024, Plaintiffs filed
this Motion to Compel Defendant’s further responses to Requests for Production
of Documents, Set Three. On December 23, 2024, Defendant SCBGF filed an
opposition brief. On January 7, 2025, Plaintiff filed a reply
brief. 
 
¿II. ANALYSIS¿ 
¿ 
A.    Legal Standard 
 
Responses to
interrogatories must be “as complete and straightforward as the information
reasonably available to the responding party permits.”  (Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 2030.220(a).)  If an interrogatory cannot be answered completely, then
it must be answered to the extent possible.  (Code Civ. Proc., §
2030.220(b).)  “If the responding party does not have personal knowledge
sufficient to respond fully to an interrogatory, that party shall so state, but
shall make a reasonable and good faith effort to obtain the information by inquiry
to other natural persons or organizations, except where the information is
equally available to the propounding party.”  (Code Civ. Proc., §
2030.220(c).) 
 
Code of Civil Procedure § 2030.300
provides that “[o]n receipt of a response to interrogatories, the propounding
party may move for an order compelling a further response if the propounding
party deems that” the responses contain: (1) answers that are evasive or
incomplete; (2)¿an unwarranted or insufficiently specific exercise of an option
to produce documents in lieu of a substantive response; or (3) unmerited or
overly generalized objections.  (Code of Civ. Proc. §¿2030.300(a).) Notice of the motions must be given within 45 days of service of
the verified response, otherwise, the propounding party waives any right to
compel a further response.  (Code Civ. Proc. §¿2030.300(c).) 
 
The motion must also be
accompanied by a meet and confer declaration “showing a reasonable and good
faith attempt at an informal resolution of each issue presented by the
motion.”  (Code of Civ. Proc. §§ 2016.040, 2030.300(b).) Finally, California Rules of Court, rule 3.1345 requires that all
motions or responses involving further discovery contain a separate statement
with the text of each request, the response, and a statement of factual and
legal reasons for compelling further responses.  (Cal. Rules of Court,
rule 3.1345(a)(2)). 
 
B.    Discussion 
 
                                    
i.         
Motion to Compel Further
Responses to Form Interrogatories, Set One. 
 
            Plaintiff’s Motion to Compel
Defendant’s Requests for Production of Documents, Set Three seeks further discovery
production to Request No. 29. RFP No. 29 seeks: “ANY AND ALL INCIDENT
REPORTS written/generated by an employee, within their course and scope of
employment with South Coast Botanic Gardens located at 26300 Crenshaw Blvd.,
Palos Verdes Peninsula, CA, due to ANY AND ALL physical injuries sustained by
ANY AND ALL members of the general public at the South Coast Botanic Garden
located at 26300 Crenshaw Blvd., Palos Verdes Peninsula, CA between January 1,
2015 through January 1, 2024.”
            
            However, Plaintiffs subsequently
stated that they were “willing to narrow the scope of the production request to
only the incident reports that involve SCBG’s Promenade Path (aka Bubble Path)
for the years requested.” (Moving Papers, p. 7.) Plaintiffs argue that this
evidence is relevant because Plaintiff could learn about the Defendant’s use of
any and all “incident reports” that pertain to the “Promenade” aka “Bubble
Path” over a course of several years to see what, if any “NOTICE of dangerous
conditions” have cause injury and what actions SCBGF took to remedy those
dangerous conditions that caused injury to a member of the general public. The
Court disagrees. Although the Court acknowledges that limiting the documents to
only the “GLOW” event would be slightly restrictive, unless the Promenade Path
did not exist until SCBGF started hosting the “GLOW” events, certainly “ANY AND
ALL” incidents generally pertaining to the Promenade Path are quite overbroad
and unlikely to lead to the production of relevant evidence. 
 
            This case involves a single slip-and-fall
incident. Requests seeking evidence of “ANY AND ALL” physical injuries has the
possibility of encompassing incident reports of heart attacks, allergic
reactions, or even bee stings, as argued by the opposition brief. The Court is
unsure why Plaintiffs would not agree to limit the discovery to include
slip-and-fall or trip-and-fall incidents only.  Thus, the Court DENIES the Motion to Compel. However,
if Plaintiff is willing to narrow the ambit of the requests such that only
incident reports relating to slip or trip and fall incidents in the three years
preceding the subject incident, the Court would reconsider the tentative ruling.
 
                                  
ii.         
Sanctions
 
Both Plaintiffs and Defendant SCBGF have requested monetary
sanctions. The Court DENIES sanctions as to both parties at this time. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 