 Case Number:  23STCV30540    Hearing Date:   June 27, 2024    Dept:  28 Having
considered the moving papers, the Court rules as follows. 
BACKGROUND 
On
December 14, 2023, Plaintiff Charles Christopher Winbush (“Plaintiff”) filed
this action against Defendants Florence Mills Apartments, L.P., Hollywood
Community Housing Corporation, and Does 1-100 for general negligence and
premises liability. 
On
February 21, 2024, Defendants Hollywood Community Housing Corporation and Florence
Mills Apartments, L.P. (“Defendants”) filed an answer and a cross-complaint
against Cross-Defendants Walton Construction Inc. (“Walton”) and Does 1-50 for
indemnification, apportionment of fault, and declaratory relief. 
On
March 8, 2024, Defendants filed a first amended cross-complaint.  On April 12, 2024, Defendants filed a second
amended cross-complaint.  On May 10,
2024, Walton filed an answer to the cross-complaint and filed a cross-complaint
against Cross-Defendants T.R.E. Elevator Corp. and Moes 1-50 for negligence, express
contractual indemnity, breach of contract, equitable indemnity and apportionment
of fault, total equitable indemnity, and declaratory relief. 
On
May 9, 2024, Plaintiff filed a motion to appoint a successor in interest, to be
heard on June 27, 2024. 
Trial
is currently scheduled for June 12, 2025. 
REQUEST 
Denikka
Winbush (“Denikka Winbush”) asks the Court to substitute her into the case as Plaintiff’s
successor in interest. 
LEGAL STANDARD 
Code
of Civil Procedure section 377.31 provides: “On motion, after the death of a
person who commenced an action or proceeding, the court shall allow a pending
action or proceeding that does not abate to be continued by decedent's personal
representative or, if none, by the decedent's successor-in-interest.” 
Code
of Civil Procedure section 377.32 provides: 
“(a) The person who seeks to commence an action or
proceeding or to continue a pending action or proceeding as the decedent’s
successor in interest under this article, shall execute and file an affidavit
or a declaration under penalty of perjury under the laws of this state stating
all of the following: 
“(1) The decedent’s name. 
“(2) The date and place of the decedent’s death. 
“(3) 'No proceeding is now pending in California for
administration of the decedent’s estate.' 
“(4) If the decedent’s estate was administered, a copy
of the final order showing the distribution of the decedent’s cause of action
to the successor in interest. 
“(5) Either of the following, as appropriate, with
facts in support thereof: 
“(A) 'The affiant or declarant is the decedent’s
successor in interest (as defined in Section 377.11 of the California Code of
Civil Procedure) and succeeds to the decedent’s interest in the action or
proceeding.' 
“(B) 'The affiant or declarant is authorized to act on
behalf of the decedent’s successor in interest (as defined in Section 377.11 of
the California Code of Civil Procedure) with respect to the decedent’s interest
in the action or proceeding.' 
“(6) 'No other person has a superior right to commence
the action or proceeding or to be substituted for the decedent in the pending
action or proceeding.' 
“(7) 'The affiant or declarant affirms or declares
under penalty of perjury under the laws of the State of California that the
foregoing is true and correct.' 
“(b) Where more than one person executes the affidavit
or declaration under this section, the statements required by subdivision (a)
shall be modified as appropriate to reflect that fact. 
“(c) A certified copy of the decedent’s death
certificate shall be attached to the affidavit or declaration.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 377.32.) 
DISCUSSION 
Plaintiff
passed away on February 19, 2024, after filing this action.  Denikka Winbush is Plaintiff’s adult
daughter.  Denikka Winbush’s declaration
satisfies the requirements of Code of Civil Procedure section 377.32.  The Court grants the motion. 
CONCLUSION 
The
Court GRANTS Denikka Winbush’s motion to substitute into the case as successor
in interest to Plaintiff Charles Christopher Winbush. 
Moving
party is ordered to give notice of this ruling. 
Moving
party is ordered to file the proof of service of this ruling with the Court
within five days.