 Case Number:  23STCV30004    Hearing Date:   June 27, 2024    Dept:  28 Having
considered the moving, opposition, and reply papers, the Court rules as
follows. 
BACKGROUND 
On
December 8, 2023, Plaintiffs Alexandra Pepin (“Pepin”) and Ryan Christopher
Noel (“Noel”) filed this action against Defendants Patrick
Harrington Thompson (“Defendant”) and Does 1-100 for negligence. 
On
March 27, 2024, the Court granted Defendant’s motion to strike Plaintiffs’
punitive damage claim with leave to amend. 
On
April 9, 2024, Plaintiffs filed a first amended complaint. 
On
May 9, 2024, Defendant filed a motion to strike the prayer for punitive damages
in the first amended complaint, to be heard on June 27, 2024. On June 12, 2024,
Plaintiffs filed an opposition. On June 21, 2024, Defendant filed a reply. 
Trial
is currently scheduled for June 6, 2025. 
PARTIES’ REQUESTS 
Defendant
asks the Court to strike the punitive damage claim in the first amended
complaint. 
Plaintiffs
ask the Court to deny the motion, 
LEGAL STANDARD 
A.   Motion to strike 
Code
of Civil Procedure section 436 provides: 
“The court may, upon a motion made pursuant to Section
435, or at any time in its discretion, and upon terms it deems proper: 
“(a) Strike out any irrelevant, false, or improper
matter inserted in any pleading. 
“(b) Strike out all or any part of any pleading not
drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of this state, a court rule, or an
order of the court.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 436.) 
“The grounds for a motion to strike shall appear on
the face of the challenged pleading or from any matter of which the court is
required to take judicial notice.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437, subd. (a).)  “Where the
motion to strike is based on matter of which the court may take judicial notice
pursuant to Section 452 or 453 of the Evidence Code, such matter shall be
specified in the notice of motion, or in the supporting points and authorities,
except as the court may otherwise permit.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437, subd. (b).) 
“In
passing on the correctness of a ruling on a motion to strike, judges read
allegations of a pleading subject to a motion to strike as a whole, all parts
in their context, and assume their truth.” (Clauson v. Superior Court
(1998) 67 Cal.App.4th 1253, 1255 (Clauson).)  “In ruling on a motion to strike, courts do
not read allegations in isolation.”  (Ibid.) 
“In
order to survive a motion to strike an allegation of punitive damages, the
ultimate facts showing an entitlement to such relief must be pled by a
plaintiff.” (Clauson, supra, 67 Cal.App.4th at p. 1255.) 
B.   Punitive damages 
“(a)
In an action for the breach of an obligation not arising from contract, where
it is proven by clear and convincing evidence that the defendant has been
guilty of oppression, fraud, or malice, the plaintiff, in addition to the
actual damages, may recover damages for the sake of example and by way of
punishing the defendant. 
* * * 
“(c)
As used in this section, the following definitions shall apply: 
“(1)
‘Malice’ means conduct which is intended by the defendant to cause injury to
the plaintiff or despicable conduct which is carried on by the defendant with a
willful and conscious disregard of the rights or safety of others. 
“(2)
‘Oppression’ means despicable conduct that subjects a person to cruel and
unjust hardship in conscious disregard of that person’s rights. 
(3)
‘Fraud’ means an intentional misrepresentation, deceit, or concealment of a
material fact known to the defendant with the intention on the part of the
defendant of thereby depriving a person of property or legal rights or
otherwise causing injury.” 
(Civ.
Code, § 3294, subds. (a), (c).) 
DISCUSSION 
A.   First amended complaint 
          The first amended complaint alleges the following: 
On
or about March 19, 2023, at approximately 12:30 a.m., Plaintiffs were traveling
westbound on a rented e-scooter on Santa Monica Boulevard on the right shoulder
of the number two lane reserved for bicycles at or near the intersection with
Kenmore Avenue, in the city of Los
Angeles.  Defendant’s vehicle collided
with Plaintiffs’ e-scooter, injuring Plaintiffs. 
At
the time of the collision, Defendant was speeding.  Defendant knew that Plaintiffs suffered severe
and devastating physical harm but nonetheless fled the scene of the collision
and refused to aid Plaintiffs. Defendant’s conduct aggravated Plaintiffs’
mental anguish and emotional distress beyond that caused by the incident itself
because Plaintiffs have had to endure and suffer from their injuries knowing
that Defendant did not care to confirm whether Plaintiffs were dead or alive
after causing their serious personal injuries but left them helpless in the
street to suffer indefinitely, all to avoid detection. 
Defendant’s
conduct justifies the imposition of punitive damages because he knowingly and
willfully failed and refused to identify himself or aid Plaintiffs even though
he knew that Plaintiffs were seriously injured and willfully fled the scene of
the accident in direct violation of Vehicle Code sections 20001 and 20003. In
committing these acts, Defendant acted intentionally, oppressively, and
maliciously, and with conscious disregard of Plaintiffs’ rights and safety. 
B.   Motion to strike punitive damage claim in first
amended complaint 
In
moving to strike the punitive damage claim in Plaintiffs’ original complaint, Defendant
argued that Plaintiffs had failed to explain how
Defendant increased Plaintiffs’ damages by fleeing the scene.  Plaintiffs have now amended their complaint to
allege that, by fleeing the scene after the accident, Defendant aggravated Plaintiffs’ mental anguish and emotional
distress beyond that caused by the incident itself because Plaintiffs have had
to endure and suffer from their injuries knowing that Defendant did not care to
confirm whether Plaintiffs were dead or alive after causing their serious
personal injuries but left them helpless in the street to suffer indefinitely,
all to avoid detection. 
Defendant argues that Plaintiffs’ new allegations do not support a punitive damage
claim because they involve only “litigation stress” that is separate from the
accident itself.  But in Brooks v. E. J. Willig Truck Transp. Co.
(1953) 40 Cal.2d 669 (Brooks), the Supreme Court held that “[the
negligent driver’s] action in driving on without stopping after the accident
may reasonably be regarded as a part of the operation and control of the
vehicle, and under the allegations of the complaint plaintiffs were entitled to
prove the direct consequences of his conduct in driving on without stopping,
namely, his failure to render aid or do anything to prevent further injury to
[the decedent].” (Brooks, supra, 40 Cal.2d at p. 681.) 
Defendant
also contends that Plaintiffs have not shown how Defendant increased
Plaintiffs’ physical injuries by fleeing the scene.  Yet Defendant does not explained why conduct that
qualifies as malice, oppression, or fraud for purposes of Civil Code section
3294 would not support a punitive damage award simply because the resulting harm
was emotional and not physical. 
The
Court finds that the amended complaint alleges facts that state a claim for
punitive damages.  The Court denies the
motion to strike. 
CONCLUSION 
The Court DENIES Defendant Patrick Harrington Thompson’s
motion to strike the punitive damage allegations in the first amended complaint
filed by Plaintiffs Alexandra Pepin and
Ryan Christopher Noel. 
Moving
party is ordered to give notice of this ruling. 
Moving
party is ordered to file the proof of service of this ruling with the Court
within five days. 